ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








_y-^£C^r-- rr"-" ~ ~ 


f"r'''";^P?!^'"""'^ 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 





CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 089 544 260 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089544260 



THE 

MODERN COOK BOOK 

AND ;^.,ijl 

. HOUSEHOLD RECIPES " 



Compiled bg many of the Famous Chefs 

and Cooking Experts of the 

United States 



^ REVISED AND EDITED BY 

LILY HAXWORTH WALLACE 

Lecturer on Poods, Contributor to the "National 
Food Magazine," Etc. 



Price $3.50 



WARNER LIBRARY COMPANY 
Neio York 



TX 



Copyright, 1904, by The New Werner Company 
Copyright, 1912, by The New Werner Company 



CONTENTS 



I. Food . . . . . . .1 

II. The Compound Foods ... 14 

III. Meat 33 

IV. Fish 43 

V. Milk 67 

VI. Eggs 88 

VII. Foods of Vegetable Origin . .95 

VIII. Food Estimates 103 

IX. The Art of Cookery .... 114 

X. Building Fires 131 

XL Soup Stock 135 

XII. Gravies and Sauces .... 146 

XIII. Boiling 150 

XIV. Stewing 158 

XV. Frying 166 

XVI. Braising 174 

XVII. Casserole 177 

XVIII. Broiling 180 

XIX. Baking 185 

XX. Roasting 188 

XXI. Steaming 193 

XXII. Mixing Batters and Fritters . . 196 

XXIII. Larding, Blanching, Boning . . 303 

XXIV. Beverages' '. . ... .205 

XXV. Vegetables 309 

XXVI. Cereals 334 

XXVIL Bread 339 

XXVIII. Salads 337 

XXIX;. Pastry 347 

XXX. Cake-making 363 

XXXI. Preserves 373 

XXXIL Nuts 375 

XXXIIL Desserts 377 

XXXIV Cookery for Invalids .... 379 

XXXV. Miscellaneous Information . . 393 



CONTENTS 



Soups 

Soup Stock 301 

Broths 338 

Cream Soups . . . . . . . 334 

Bisques . . . . . . . . 353 

Soups with Meat and Purees . . . 359 

Soups without Meat 384 

Chowders 389 

A Group of Foreign Soups, etc. . . - . 400 

Fish . . 408 

Oysters and Shellfish 473 

Sauces for Fish and Meats . . . . . 483 

Dressings 503 

Meats 

Beefsteaks 505 

Beef Roasts, etc 510 

Meat and Poultry Pies 528 

Mutton 538 

Lamb 544 

Pork, Sausages, etc. 550 

Veal 568 

Meat Pies 591 

Poultry and Game 

Chicken . . i., i., ,. • . . 596 

Turkey 603 

Duck .,..,. i. . ... . 608 

Goose .... •.■ . ,., . . 611 

Hare or Rabbit ......... 614 

Partridge 616 

Plover 617 

Pigeon . . . «; ■.. ..... 618 

Quail t., . . . 619 

Pheasant 619 

Snipe . . . . . ■ 630 

Grouse 631 

Venison ......... 631 

Woodcock .633 

Sauces for Game 633 

Entrees 637 



CONTENTS 



Eggs 633 

Omelets 641 

Vegetables 647 

Fruits and Cereals 763 

Bread and Cakes 778 

RoLLfe, 788 

MuFFiNst Buns, and Biscuit . . . 788 

Sandwiches 797 

Batter Cakes . . . . . . . 807 

Griddle Cakes, etc. 813 

Fillings and icings 834 

Gingerbreads 846 

Small Cakes 847 

Doughnuts and Crullers .... 853 

Salads and Relishes . . . ' . . . 854 

Salads and Salad Dressings . . . ,855 

Fish Relishes 896 

Pickle Relishes 899 

Invalid Cooker-^ 905 

Jelly ; ... 914 

Canning Fruit 917 

Ices, Pastry, and Other Desserts . . . 931 

Boiled Puddings 937 

Baked Puddings 934 

Whipped-Cream Desserts .... 953 

Pudding Sauces, 95'J' 

Ice Creams and Ices 963 

Candies . ...,..-•. 978 

Cheese Dishes 986 

Chafing-dish Recipes 993 

Nuts and Their Uses ..... 1005 " 

Carving 1010 

Beverages • • • 1021 

Menu Terms in Foreign Languages . . . 1043 
Names of Meats, Fruits, and Vegetables in 

Various Languages 1043 

Terms Used in Cooking ....... 1046 

Index 1065 



LESSON I 
FOOD 

Op all the subjects capable of tempting the 
pen of the scholar, the professional man, and 
even the amateur, none has been more prolific 
or more exploited than that of food; and the 
number of works which treat of it, either in its 
entirety or along the lines of the different 
sciences which spring from it, are innumerable. 

Some have discussed it from the economic, 
the philosophical, and the social point of view. 
Others have followed the more direct line of 
cooking and have made it the subject of wise 
scientific essays ; while another class have sung 
and glorified the pleasures of the palate. What- 
ever may be the intrinsic merit of these works, 
they all point to the perfection of the art of 
good living, which plays an important part in 
the march of human progress and of civilization. 

There can never be too many of such works, 
so varied are the kinds : and the more new ones 
produced, the greater will be the emulation, the 
more will a knowledge of the true scientific 
principles of food and feeding be disseminated, 



^~ 



THE COOKING SCHOOL 



and the more quickly and thorougMy will be 
popularized the correct methods and practices 
in the art of preparing and supplying food. 

The question of the proper nourishment of 
the body is wisely regarded as of the highest 
importance, since it alone, with rest of the 
wearied body, assures the suppleness of muscle, 
the vigor of the system, and the power of the 
mind. But in order to properly realize the com- 
plex problem of food, it is highly necessary to 
know the good and bad qualities of food stuffs ; 
to be able to select and to treat them according 
to the laws of hygiene and the rites of proper 
cooking; to know the proper value and the use 
of accessories and sauces, without which one 
can never attain to the niceties of seasoning and 
taste. 

To one who realizes the importance of proper 
preparation, and of sure guidance in these mat- 
ters, there has always been the uncertainty of 
knowing where to find the precise, certain 
teachings ; the processes sanctioned by the prac- 
tices which, in association with scientific con- 
tributions, enable one to adjust the question of 
food to tastes, , ages, disposition, occupations, 
and climate. 

The object of this work is to present, as far as 
possible, the sum of our knowledge of the art of 
maintaining good health by proper nourish- 



FOOD 3 

ment. An effort is made to present all that is 
worth knowing upon the subject by contribu- 
tions from the pens of the highest medical 
authorities, famous chemical analysts, emi- 
nently successful housekeepers, and most ex- 
cellent cooks. 

It aims to be a sure guide and a reliable coun- 
sellor to the whole household economy, whether 
pretentious or simple. The facilities of an 
elaborate establishment, faultlessly equipped, 
are not of course to be compared to those of a 
remotely situated farmer's cottage ; but the same 
knowledge, the same care ought to direct the 
preparation of the meals of those who inhabit 
the one or the other. The more a kitchen is 
ordered by hygienic laws, the more it rests upon 
demonstrated facts, the more it bases its formu- 
las upon the gifts of professional students ; the- 
more will the art of cooking tend to become an 
exact science; and the hazard and chance of a 
well-cooked, nourishing meal be eliminated. 
The rapid advance of the applied sciences, and 
more especially that of chemistry, make it com- 
pulsory upon the one who holds the key of the 
health and welfare of the family to summon to 
her aid all of the forces for the satisfactory so- 
lution of the diBBcult problems relating to the 
wholesomeness of food. ■ 

It is especially true that the person to whom 



THE COOKING SCHOOL 



is entrusted the choice and selection of foods 
should not act blindly or unintelligently in the 
matter. It is extremely important that such 
should know the nutritive value and digesti- 
bility of the diet of each individual, and 
what constitutes the proper ration of each, not 
in quantity, but in quality and kind. 

As meats play such an important part in the 
household economy, they are made the subject 
of careful study. 

Poultry and game are not less minutely 
studied: all of the preliminary processes are 
faithfully described by a demonstration of 
methods of dressing, carving, etc. 

FOOD AND ITS VALUE 

A good table, in the hygienic sense of the 
word, is the principal element of good health. 
It is, therefore, necessary to understand clearly 
what hygiene teaches us is a good table. 
Science is everywhere making rapid strides. 
In industry, commerce, and everywhere, the 
habits of chance, and of haphazard, are giving 
way, little by little, to scientific methods. The 
time has come when we are able to take ad- 
vantage of the exact knowledge of foods and 
their values which science has placed at our 
disposal. It is doubtless difficult in practice, 
except perhaps in large and fully equipped 



FOOD 5 

kitchens, to conform exactly to the scientific 
rules; but one is able to draw from them suffi- 
cient direction to enable one to proceed upon 
right lines and according to right principles in 
this most importaut of all matters. 

The human body has been long ago likened to 
a lamp or a fire, which bijrns, its food as a stove 
consumes the fuel with which it is supplied. It 
is a frequent, poetic figure to speak of the 
" spark of life," or of the life which flickers, 
goes out, or kindles as a flame. And science 
will bear out this poetic metaphor, if one does 
not take it literally nor push the figure too far. 
Lavoisier, the eminent French chemist of the 
eighteenth century, proved conclusively that we 
are very like a lamp which consumes itself or 
as a fire that burns. The digestion supplies the 
necessary combustible material, and the breath- 
ing with the lungs is at once the draught which 
supplies the, air to the burning fire and the chim- 
ney which carries. off the gaseous products. 

The heat furnished by this combustion of our 
food is that which keeps our bodies at the 
proper temperature. It has further been said 
that our bodies are not only fire which produces 
heat, but, are at the same time machines capable 
of doing work, — that they are steam-engines in 
which the combustible materials supply by their 
destruction both heat and woi'k. 



THE CCWKING SCHCXX 



This is true with one exception: In a steam- 
engine that which burns and is destroyed is the 
fuel. The machine itself is made up of pieces of 
metal, the wear and tear of which are insignifi- 
cant and almost of no account. But in the hu- 
man body not only is the food consumed, but all 
the pieces of the body ;.the tissues, bones, and all 
its parts are used up and destroyed. It must, 
therefore, be plain that our food performs the 
double part of supplying the fuel for the human 
engine, and of continuously repairing its parts. 
Let us now consider the materials which are 
capable of performing this double duty in the 
economy of man. 

SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FOODS 

The materials with which man repairs the 
losses which he continually sustains are derived 
by him from the tissues of plants and animals. 
Plants furnish either grains, such as the grains 
of cereals which give us meal and bread; or the 
leguminous grains, as peas, beans, etc.; with 
roots and tubers, as carrots, turnips, and po- 
tatoes ; with leaves, as lettuce, spinach, cabbage, 
cauliflower, etc. ; or with fruits, as apples, pears, 
oranges, cherries, peaches, apricots, etc. From 
animals we derive three classes of products ; the 
flesh, or meat with its accompanying fats ; milk 
and its products, cheese and butter; and eggs. 



FOOD 7 

_ : 1 , 

All of these foods ai:e known as compound 
foods, because they are infinitely complex in 
their nature and chemical composition. Chem- 
istry has determined beyond doubt that there 
are four types of simple foods derived from 
this complex mass of compound animal and 
vegetable foods : 

1. The albumens. 

2. The fats. 

3. The starches and sugars. 

4. The mineral matter, or salts. 

Milk, the ideal food for the young, embodies 
in itself these four types of simple foods. And 
it is from an examination of it that we can best 
come to an understanding of these types. If 
we allow the milk to stand for a time in a suit- 
able vessel, we will see the, cream rise little by 
little to the top and form a yellowish layer or 
covering. This cream, when skimmed and 
churned, solidifies into butter, and here we see 
one of the types of simple foods, viz., fat. 
The skim milk when treated with rennet and 
subjected to pressure yields cheese, which is a 
simple food of the type of albumen. If the 
liquid which remains be slowly evaporated over 
the fire, we will procure yellowish crystals of 
sugar of milk, a type of the starches and sugars. 
Lastly, if the liquid be completely evaporated 
there will remain some solid matter much re- 



THE COOKING SCHOOL 



sembling the common salt of the household. 
This is an example of the fourth type; the 
mineral matter or salt from the milk. 

Chemical analysis of all of the elementary 
foods has shown that imder the infinite variety 
of outward aspects which they present^ whether 
meat, eggs, vegetables, or fruits, there are al- 
ways present one or more of the four varieties 
of simple foods, and these determine the char- 
acter of the food. 

To estimate the value of an article of diet is 
to know what it contains in the way of albu- 
mens, fats, starches or sugars, and mineral 
matter. Practically these four types repre- 
sent all that is necessary to supply the wants' 
of the human body. The fundamental problem 
of supplying proper food consists in combining 
these types in suitable quantities, and under the 
most favorable forms to satisfy the needs of 
each individual. It is to be remembered that 
though these simple types of food are present, 
yet they are in very variable proportions. 
Therefore, in order to properly apportion a 
daily ration exactly suited to the needs of each 
person, it is necessary to combine the several 
compound foods, such as milk, bread, meat, 
vegetables, grains, and fruits, in such a way that 
the individual will obtain from them the albu- 
men, fats, sugars and starches, and salts which 



FOOD 9 

are needed for the thorough nourishment of the 
body. 

A thorough and intelligent knowledge of this 
important subject necessitates the considera- 
tion of ^ 

1. The simple foods. 

2. The compound foods. 

3. The manner in which it is necessary to 
combine these in order to make a diet; then to 
select the proper quantities of each, so as to 
form a ration for each person. 

4. The manner of dividing that ration into 
the several meals. 

THE SIMPLE POODS 

The simple foods, which constitute the truly 
nourishing portion of what we eat, present 
themselves to us in a very great variety of ex- 
ternal forms. One finds it difficult to appreci- 
ate, for instance, that the flesh of meat and the 
white of an egg are composed of exactly the 
same substance, viz., albumen. But whoever 
wishes to consider food in its true light as an 
article of nourishment must learn to ignore the 
external appearance of the several articles and 
to regard them as so much of this or that simple 
food. 

Albumen. — The type of this class of food is 
the white of an egg, which the Latins called 



JO THE COOKING SCHOOL 

albumen, and which is a solution of almost pure 
albumen in water. All of the animal and vege- 
table tissues contain some albumen in varying 
degrees; so it is found in all the compound 
foods. Meat is composed almost entirely of 
albumen of several sorts, combined one with the 
other. The albumen of milk has already been 
referred to as casein or cheese. Bread con- 
tains, in addition to a certain quantity of starchy 
food, an albuminous substance known as gluten, 
which predominates in the " gluten bread," or 
the whole-wheat bread so beneficial to diabetics. 
All of the vegetables and fruits contain also 
more or less albumen. Even the grass of the 
field upon which the cows feed contains the al- 
bumen which is an indispensable article of food 
for all living beings. 

All of the albuminous forms, whether the 
white of an egg or the semi-solid mass as found 
in meat, possess the quality of being coagu- 
lated by heat. By coagulation is meant the act 
of changing into a hard and elastic mass. This 
change occurs when a raw egg is changed into a 
hard-boiled egg, or when a piece of raw beef is 
changed into boiled or cooked beef by the action 
of heat. 

Fats. — This class of foods is probably the 
most commonly known of the four types of 
simple foods. The major part of the fats 



FCX)D IJ 

whicli we eat are not disguised and hidden in 
the compound foods. They are added to the 
ration of food voluntarily. There are hardly 
any species of meats which are not accom- 
panied by sufficient fat for their proper prepa- 
ration as food. The majority of other foods, 
and especially the vegetables, require the addi- 
tion of artificial fats, such as butter and lard, 
among the animal fats, and of olive oil, etc., 
from the vegetable kingdom. 

Starches and Sugars. — Relatively very large 
quantities of these are eaten by us every day, 
as we shall see further on, whether they are 
found in the compound foods, or are added by 
ourselves to our dishes. Starch occurs largely 
in bread, in the form of flour starch or wheat 
starch; and in potatoes and other vegetables. 
These supply naturally the starch elements of 
our food. Arrowroot, tapioca, and sago are 
starchy foods extracted from the trunks of trees 
in tropical, countries. 

Sugars are furnished naturally by certain 
substances of vegetable origin, as the fruit- 
sugars from grapes, apricots, pears, peaches, 
etc., and as special products such as honey. 
Sugar is artificially prepared from sugar cane 
and from beet-root. The starches and sugars 
are grouped together because, in the process of 
digestion, starches are changed into sugar. 



12 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

This begins in the mouth under the action of the 
saliva and is completed in the intestines. 

Salt and Mineral Matter. — This type of food 
is best represented by the table salt, the chlo- 
ride of sodium of the chemist. It is added to 
our foods both in cooking and at the table. But 
this is not the only salt which we consume. We 
daily absorb a number of others which are 
absolutely necessary to our bodily welfare. 
These are found in all of the articles of which 
we partake. TJiey constitute the ashes which 
remain when articles of animal or of vegetable 
origin are burned. They include the sulphates, 
phosphates, and chlorides of potassium, so- 
dium, magnesium, lime, and iron. Salts are a 
part of our bodily structure, and are necessary 
to its growth and to the upbuilding of the wear- 
ing tissues. Iron is needed to repair and to 
supply the red corpuscles of the bloodj Lime 
and the phosphates are necessary to the growth 
of the skeleton. All of the salt& which are 
needed for the growth and repair of the body 
are contained in the articles of our food, with 
the single exception of the common salt which 
we add as a seasoning; There is a peculiar 
physiological reason for salting our food. It 
is well known that among the wild animals only 
the grass-eating or herbivorous animals care 
for salt. The vegetables contain an abundance 



FOOD t3 

of the salts of potassium, and when they are 
taken into the system the potassium eliminates 
the sodimn forom the body and thus the amount 
of it is diminished and must be supplied artifi- 
cially. In flesh-eating animals the supplies of 
potassium and sodium are more nearly even, 
and no elimination of the one by the other 
occurs. 



LESSON 11 

THE COMPOUND FOODS 

We have considered the four types of simple 
foods—albumens, fats, starches and sugars, 
and mineral matter — separately. We have 
now to consider them mingled together in vary- 
ing proportions in the compound foods in which 
they occur. 

FOODS OF ANIMAL ORIGIN 

1. The several sorts of butcher's meats. 

2. Poultry and game. 

3. Fish. 

4. Milk, with its products — butter and cheese. 

5. Eggs. 

Meat. — Meat is made up of the muscles com- 
posed of fibres interlaced with one another and 
running in a direction easily noticeable in the 
cut of meat. The tendons, or masses of white, 
elastic fibres, are also to be seen. Each muscle 
is surrounded by a whitish membrane which 
completely envelops it and allows free passage 
of one muscle over another. In the portions 
of the meat which are less desirable for food 



THE COMPOUND FOODS 15 

these membranes are thicker, tougher, and more 
numerous. In the case of domestic animals 
which have been ' ' stall-fed ' ' or artificially fat- 
tened, we find deposits of fat over the body. 
These are not to be seen in the case of game and 
of animals that have lived free and unre- 
strained. To show that this absence of fat is 
the result of muscular activity, we need only 
cite the case of the pig, which is noted for its 
fat, and its indolent life. 

The flesh of freshly killed animals is hard and 
tough and becomes even more so under the ac- 
tion of heat. After twenty-four hours it is 
found that the muscular rigidity has disap- 
peared. During this time the small quantity of 
starchy matter which the flesh contains becomes 
changed into lactic acid, which permeates the 
meat and sets up a disintegrating action which 
renders the meat miibh more tender. A similar 
artificial action is carried on in the kitchen, 
when a piece of tough meat is macerated for a 
time in such an acid as vinegar or wine to make 
it tender. 

The chief constituents of meat are: water, 
albumen, and fat. There is very little starch 
or sugar; and the salts do not amount to one 
part in a hundred. The following table illus- 
trates the quantities contained in 100 ounces of 
meat. 

a 2 



16 



THE COOKING SCHOOL 



COMPOSITION OF FRESH MEAT 





Water 


Albnmen 


Fat 


Beef, very fat . . 


53 


17 


29 


moderately fat 






73 


21 


S 


lean . 






76 


21 


2 


Veal, fat 






72 


19 


7 


lean . 






78 


20 


1 


Mutton, very fat 






53 


16 


29 


moderately fat 






76 


17 


6 


Pork, fat 






47 


14 


37 


lean . 






73 


20 


7 



The most abundant element of meat is water. 

Moderately fat or lean meat is nearly three- 
quarters water, and one-fifth albumen. The 
quantity of fat, of course, varies. The three 
principal foods of animal origin are meat, eggs, 
and milk. The first two contain only the albu- 
men and fats. Milk alone contains starch or 
sugar. Thus it can be seen that a diet of meat 
or eggs will not supply the atarch or sugar, and, 
that to get it, it is necessary to add bread. 
. With reference to veal, the Germans have a 
saying: " Kalbfleisch ist Halbfleisch," that veal 
is only half a meat. This is prompted by the 
well-known experience that, as an article of food 
and nourishment, veal is less satisfying and less 
lasting than are other meats. The place that 
albumen takes in other meats is taken by a sort 
of gelatine in veal ; and gelatine is far inferior 
to albumen as an article of nutriment. 



THE COMPOUND FOODS »7 

DIGESTIBrLITY OF MEATS AND OP PATS 

There is mucli error in the popular mind as to 
what constitutes digestibility of food. In gen- 
eral any food is said to be digestible which, even 
when eaten in large quantities, does not occa- 
sion pain and suffering, or cause a feeling of 
fulness after eating. A more scientific test is 
that; which tells the length of time that the food 
remains in the stomach or in the digestive tube ; 
or rather the length of time necessary for the 
complete digestion of such and such an article 
in such and such quantities. But the most ac- 
curate method of expressing the digestibility of 
an article of food is to tell in what proportion it 
is absorbed by the digestive tube. ^ 

Every one admits that roast meat is more di- 
gestible than raw meat or boiled meat. Poul- 
try or roast veal, the so-called white meats, are 
said to be very easily digested, and are conse- 
quently selected for invalids. These differ- 
ences are doubtless due to the greater or less 
delicacy of the muscular fibres which offer a 
varying resistance to the digestive juices ; and . 
also to the quantity and nature of the fat which 
pertains to each sort of meat. 

This last point is very important ; we are ac^ 
customed to say that the digestion of fat in a 
healthy person is in general good. But it can 



18 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

be shown that a ration of a few ounces of fat m 
24 hoTirs represents an accomplishment which is 
hardly performed by those living in northern 
countries, yet experiment shows that the di- 
gestive tube is capable of absorbing consider- 
ably larger quantities. Thus in one series of 
tests it was found that of three ounces of butter, 
all but six grains were absorbed, but the results 
with other fats were not so good. Of the fat of 
mutton, which does not melt at so low a point as 
does butter, about 10 per cent, did not absorb. 
But liquid fats, such as olive oil, which are kept 
as liquids by the heat of the body, were wholly 
digested. 

In general the stomach seems to experience a 
sort of antipathy to fats, and there is a tendency 
to arrest digestion . by using them. We are 
all able to tell the effect upon ourselves and 
upon our digestions by the f odds which are very 
rich in fats, and especially those of fish, which 
are fatter than others. 

It is probable that fat plays a great part in 
giving to the several kinds of meat their dis- 
tinctive taste. This is a point to be borne in 
mind in frying, as the fat used i6 very likely to 
impart its flavor to the food which is cooked 
in it. 



THE COMPOUND FOODS J9 



THE NUTEITIVE VALUE OF BOTJILLOlir AND OP MEAT 
EXTEACT 

A quantity of bouillon made in the ordinary 
way, without completely destroying the boiled 
meat, contains approximately the following 
matter : Albumen, .3 to .4 per cent. Gelatine, 
.3 to .6 per cent. Fat, .5 to 1 per cent. Salts 
(natural and added), 1.3 to 1.5 per cent. Ex- 
tractive matter, .6 to .7 per cent. Water, 95.5 
to 97 per cent. 

Much of the albumen of the meat rises to the 
top as scum and is removed. Only a small 
quantity of the albumen dissolves in the liquid, 
on account of the natural acid which is present 
in the meat. 

The gelatine is present in a quantity less than 
IQ per cent., which proportion causes liquid to 
congeal on cooling. A bouillon which would so 
congeal is not at all_ desirable. 

The fat varies according to the nature of the 
meat used. Very fat bouillon may contain 
from 3.3 to 4 per cent, of fat, but such quantities 
are usually repugnant and are not easily borne 
by persons with weak stomachs. 

It is safe to say that the quantities of albu- 
men and fat supplied by a portion of bouillon 
are about the same as those yielded by two or 
three-spoonfuls of cow's milk. 



20 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

The nutritive value of bouillon is, therefore, 
weak, as is also that of meat extracts, which are 
only bouiUon evaporated to dryness, or a semi- 
solid state, but their agreeable taste and stimu- 
lating eflfect render them useful adjuncts to the 
art of cooking. 

It is a very wrong idea, maintained by many 
people, and even by many physicians, that meat 
extracts contain the nourishment and food value 
of a large quantity of meat ; they do nothing of 
the Mnd, else albumen, fats, and other food sub- 
stances would be present in large proportions, 
and chemical analysis shows this to be far from 
the truth. Bouillon and solutions of meat ex- 
tract contain these substances in extremely 
small quantities, hence the nutritive value of 
bouillon is very slight, and that of meat extracts, 
or so-called condensed meat, is often still less. 

From what has been said it must not be 
hastily concluded that bouillon is of no use or 
value whatever. "While a healthy person finds in 
it only a very small portion of what he needs, 
to the invalid or convalescent, to whom the 
smallest quantity of nourishment that can be 
borne is a blessing, bouillon is one of the most 
useful forms to supply to a worn-out and 
impaired system a first food, agreeable, easy 
to digest, and one which possesses wonderful 
stimulating properties. This last property 



THE COMPO UND FOODS 2J 

cannot be emphasized too strongly. It ex- 
plains the marvellous effect produced by a 
quantity of bouillon taken after a march or pro- 
longed fast. The effect is undoubtedly a nerv- 
ous one. It is probable that the bouillon pro- 
duces a beneficent effect upon the stomach itselL 
Some physiologists claim that bouillon pos- 
sesses the power of stimulating the secretion 
of pepsin, the essential agent of digestion. 
This explains why bouillon has become so gen- 
erally and so justly apprecia,ted. 



LESSON III 
MEAT 

Meat proper includes the flesli (1) of cattle, 
wMch we call heef, and of calves, which, we call 
veal; (2) of swine, called pork; and (3) of 
sheep and of lambs, called mutton and lamh re- 
spectively. 

All of these meats, particularly beef and mut- 
ton, are in use at all seasons, though the two 
last named are in finest condition in the winter, 
while lamb and veal belong more especially to 
the spring and early summer months. 

We use as meat not only the actual muscular 
flesh, but also the fat, sinews, heart, stomach, 
and liver, the tongue and brains. 

Beef is the most nourishing meat. Next in 
order comes mutton. 

Meat that is dried or smoked is more nu- 
tritious than fresh meat, but corning draws out 
the juices. 

We have already pointed out that some kinds 
of meat are much more digestible than others. 
Pork, on the one hand, being fat, is indigestible, 
and the same is true of the tough, muscular tis- 

22 



MEAT 23 

sue of such parts of an animal as the kidneys 
and the heart, while the finer-fibred flesh, such 
as tender beef or mutton, the breast of chicken 
and some varieties of game, will always be 
found more digestible. Naturally, those mus- 
cles which are used the most become the hard- 
est, or toughest, — ^but these are also the richest 
and juiciest as well. 

Meat should never be allowed to remain long 
in the paper in which it is wrapped, nor should 
it be placed in water, as much of the juice is 
lost in this way: it is better to wipe it with a 
clean, damp cloth if one wishes to cleanse it. 

It is important to remember in buying that it 
is not always economy to purchase the cheapest 
cuts, — one must take into consideration hov< 
much of the piece selected is edible meat, and 
how much bone or fat. The most economy lies 
in getting the best nourishment, bearing in mind 
that the less tender parts are .the more nutri- 
tious. Of course, in order that the meat be 
wholesome the animal must be healthy ,^and 
if the animal be well nourished, then the meat 
coming from it will be nutritious. 

Tender cuts are best for broiling and roast- 
ing. The cheap cuts should be selected for a 
stew, and should contain some of both fat and 
bone, for the sake of the better flavor and body 
that will result. Careful cooking will bring out 



24 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

some of the nitrogenous elements from the 
bones, and the rich fat is by no means to be 
despised. 

In winter one appreciates the heat-giving 
qualities of fat, and it should at no season be 
thrown awa,y. This is especially true of beef 
fat. When used in bread or pastry as shorten- 
ing, or for frying, etc., or even for gre,asing 
pans, fat should be clarified. This is the simplest 
of processes, and consists of merely heating it 
with water, so that it is not burnt; the greasy 
odor passing off as the water evaporates; or 
with thin slices of raw potato, which absorb 
the organic matter in its passage from the 
fat. 

It is of prime importance to know how every 
variety and every part of meat should be 
cooked so as to prepare it to the greatest ad- 
vantage, and so as to retain as much as possible 
of the juice which is its life. 

Dry, intense 'heat causes the meat fibre to 
contract and become hardened; whereas a 
" slow fire " softens it. And while, by being 
heated, the albumen will only become the 
harder, we find that it will dissolve in cold 
water. Consequently, those meats that are of 
tough fibre should be cooked in water and with 
only a moderate degree of heat. 

The process of cooking meat in water gives 



MEAT 25 

us: (a) the boiled meat, which retains all its 
juices; (b) a stew, in which the juices are 
mingled with the water, so that we eat this 
with the meat, or, (3) a soup or broth, in which 
the juice is all extracted and is used alone. 

• BOILING 

To boil meat, have a kettle large enough to 
permit the meat to be entirely covered by the 
water, and let the water come to a boil before 
the meat is placed in it. Then let it remain for 
from five to ten minutes, which will be long 
enough to harden the albumen, as explained 
above, and prevent the juices from running out. 
After this, keeping the kettle covered so that 
the steam cannot carry off the life and flavor 
of the meat, place it where it will be just below 
the boiling-point. Skim off the coating of al- 
bumen that rises to the surface. 

The meat will taste much better, and be all 
the tenderer, if one takes plenty of time for the 
boiling^ instead of keeping it for a shorter 
period over a hotter fire. 

After fl.fteen or twenty minutes, the actual 
cooking commences, the heat having by this 
time gone through and through the meat. 
Then let it cook slowly allowing twelve to 
fifteen minutes for each pound.' 

It will be found that enough of the juices 



26 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

always escape from the meat into the water to 
make it answer the purpose of gravy. 

Sometimes the vessel containing the meat is 
placed in the oven instead of over the fire, 
which adds to its flavor. 

Or, flavor may be supplied either by season- 
ing the water itself, or by adding a stuffing. 

There are various ways of steaming meat. 
This may be done over boiling water, placing it, 
when it has in this way become quite tender, 
inside the oven, for the sake of the added 
flavor to be derived in this way. 

The familiar " pot roast," or smothered 
meat, is prepared by simply steaming it in its 
own juices. It is placed in the oven in a tight 
jar and left until the juice is partially drawn 
out, after' about an hour ; then cooked by greater 
heat, allowing half an hour to each pound of the 
meat. If the meat is cut into small pieces, the 
cooking will not require so long a time. The 
juice can be made into a thick, rich gravy. 

BEEF 

When good beef is first cut, the lean is firm 
so that no mark of the finger remains when one 
presses it; it is of purplish red, chan^ng to 
bright red, and becoming moist, after being ex- 
posed to the air. 

There should be plenty of fat ; if this is lack- 



MEAT 27 

ing, it is a sign that the meat comes from an 
old or poorly fed specimen. 

When the beef-animal first comes into the 
hands of the butcher, it is split into halves, or 
" sides." Each half is then divided into fore- 
quarter and hind-quarter, the division being 
made just back of the ribs. 

The first six ribs, counting forward from the 
loin, are called the prime ribs. The first steaks 
cut on the small end of the loin are called 
short steaks, and have not much tenderloin : be- 
tween these and the point where the hip bone 
joins the. spine, come the porterhouse steaks, 
and between this joint and the thighbone the 
sirloin. This name, " Sir Loin," was given as 
a title indicative of superiority, in recognition 
of the tender and juicy nature of the meat that 
comes from that little-used muscle, or "cush- 
ion," found on the loin by the backbone. 

The tenderloin, another little-used muscle, 
soft, but without much flavor or juice, is found 
inside of the loin, under the " short ribs." 

The best cuts for broiling are steaks from the 
loin: short steaks, porterhouse, and sirloin. 

MtTTTON AND LAMB 

A large, heavy animal, two or three years old, 
makes the finest mutton; the flesh should be 
brtght red, with firm, white fat. Good South- 



28 THE COOKING SCHOOl 

1. FORE-QUAETER OF BEEF 

A, B, C, Back-half. D, E, F, G, H, I, J, Rattle-rand. 

A. First five ribs or prime ribs. Five-rib cut. Used for 
roasts and steaks. 

B. Five chuck ribs. Poorer roasts and steaks. 

C. Neck, used for beef tea, stews, boiling, etc. 

D. Sticking piece, used for corning. 

E. Shoulder, used for steaks, corning, etc. 

F. Shin, used for soups and soup stock. 

Q. First strip of rattle-rand, used for corning. 
H. Middle strip of rattle-rand, used for corning. 
I. Butt' end of brisket, used for corning. 
J. Navel end of brisket, used for corning. 

2. HIND-QUARTER OF BEEF 

A, B, C, D, E, F, Round of Beef. G, H, I, Rump. J_ 
K, L, Sirloin. M, N, Flank. 

A. Shin. Suitable to be used for soups and stock. 

B. Lower or poorer part of the round, used for stews, 
etc. 

C. Upper and best part of the round, used for steak and 
beef tea. 

D. Lower or poorer part of vein, used for stews, chop- 
ping, braising. 

E. Upper and best part of vein, used for boiling, steak, 
beef tea, spiced beef, etc. 

F. Aitchbone, used for roast, stew, and stock. 

G. Face of rump, used for roast or steaks. 
H. Middle of, rump, used for steak. 

I. Back of rump, used for roasts or steaks. These steaks 
may be cut with the grain, or across the grain of the meat. 

J. First cut of sirloin, used for roast or steaks. It. con- 
tains tenderloin. 

K. Second cut of sirloin, used for roast or steaks; it con- 
tains tenderloin. 

L. Tip of sirloin, used for roast or short steaks. Contains 
no tenderloin. 

M. Thick end of fiank. Used for corning, rolling, boiling. 

N. Thin end of flank. Used for corning, rolling, boilidg. 




•mp?*' 



1 — Pore-Quarter of Beef 
2— Hind-Quarter of Beef 



~MEAT 29 

down mutton has always been considered the 
best. 

Mutton and lamb are generally quartered, as 
is done with beef. The fore-quarter is divided 
into head, neck, shoulder, breast, and rack; the 
hind-quarter into leg and loin. The loin is 
divided into chops. The hiud-leg and the flesh 
back of the hip-bone, together, are called leg of 
mutton. The shoulder, which is not expensive, 
has the fore-leg and sometimes two or more of 
the ribs left on for roasting. The finest of 
roasts, consisting of the whole upper back part 
of the sheep, is called saddle of mutton. 

The best cuts for broiling are the rib or loin 
chops. 

Spring lamb is so much smaller than mutton 
that it is sold and cooked only in halves and 
quarters ; the ' ' fore-quarter ' ' being considered 
the more choice. 

Our lamb chops do not come from spring 
lamb, but from small, thin mutton, or young 
sheep. 

Chops are of several varieties. The South- 
down chops are fully two inches in thickness, 
while the usual American chop is not more than 
half an inch thick. Loin and rack chops are 
prepared exactly as a broiled steak. When the 
loin chops are trimmed we call them French 

chops. The daintiest way; of serving these 
3 



30 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

French chops is in the form in which they are 
called mashed chops. When "the chops have 
been quickly broiled for five minutes, and while 
they are still warm, place on one side of each 
chop a little mound of nicely seasoned, boiled 
mashed potatoes, beaten until very light. Then 
dip the chop, with this addition, into beaten egg, 
cover it with bread crumbs, and dip for a 
couple of minutes into hot fat. A paper 
' ' holder ' ' is put over the end of each chop 
bone, and the diops are laid on a platter with a 
mound of peas beneath; the dish includes really 
two vegetables, delicately served, besides the 
chops. 

Sheep's heads are prepared and served, two 
at a time, just in the manner of the single calf's 
head. 

The kidneys, liver, and heart, which are de- 
licious, and far less expensive, are also served 
as are those of the calf. / 

VEAL 

The best veal comes from a two-months-old 
calf. The meat is flesh-colored, and firm, with 
clear, white fat. One should never buy veal 
that is white and lean; it is not safe to eat 
young veal. 

It is divided almost as mutton is. The hind- 
quarter cuts are the finest. Chops and steak, 



MEAT 3f 

or pieces for roasts, come from the loin and the 
leg. Veal cutlets are slices cut from the leg, 
contaioing a round section of the leg-bone. 

The sweetbreads, sold in pairs, are a part of 
the digestive viscera, which accounts for their 
being so digestible. There are both " heart " 
and " throat " sweetbreads. The former is the 
short, firm one, preferable when4;o be served 
whole. The other is long, and full of mem- 
brane, but just as desirable if it be served 
creamed, or picked small. 

However prepared, it is necessary to wash 
and parboil, or boil, sweetbreads when they 
first come from the market, as they are in dan- 
ger of ' * spoiling ' ' quickly. It is then possible 
to keep them for a day or two in a cold spot. 

POBK 

Fresh pork is firm, and of a pale red color; 
the fat is white. Good, fat salt pork is white, 
or slightly pinkish. One is obliged to be very 
careful in selecting pork, as the speckled meat 
is often diseased. At best, pork is very diffi- 
cult to digest ; even inthe use of breakfast bacon 
care should be exercised. 

Pork for chops, or roasting, comes from the 
ribs and the loin. 

When salted and smoked, the hind-legs are 
called ham; the flank bacon. 



32 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Sausages are made of chopped trimmings, 
fat and lean, packed in cleaned intestines. 

POULTEY AND GAME 

The domestic fowls which we designate as 
poultry include chickens and tame turkeys, 
ducks, geese, and pigeons. Wild turkeys, 
ducks, and gteese, quail, partridges, and grouse, 
together with venison and other wild flesh, we 
call game. 

Chicken is always in season. Spring chick- 
ens used to come only after the first of May, 
but can now be had earlier, — thanks to the 
modern incubator. 

Capons are seasonable through the winter 
and early spring. 

Turkeys through the autumn and early 
spring. 

Ducks and geese from the first of Decem- 
ber to the first of April. Green geese and 
ducklings from the first of June until Sep- 
tember. 

Game is in season during the autumn and 
winter months, from about the first day of 
November (the exact date being regulated to 
some extent by the local game laws) until 
February. Cold storage game is,, of course, ob- 
tainable at other times of the year. 

Venison is best from September first to Jan- 



MEAT 33 

uary; wild duck, geese, and partridges, from 
the same date until April. 

The most delicate meat of poultry comes 
from chickens, pigeons, and the guinea-fowl. 

The guinea-fowl may be bought at all seasons, 
but is best from the first of June to October. 
Owing to the short muscle-fibres the breast- 
meat of poultry is more tended, though less 
highly flavored, than the dark meat of the leg. 

Chicken of five months or less is called 
spring chicken. When over a year old it is 
called fowl; naturally the flavor of the full- 
grown chicken is finer than that of the very 
young. For roasting, a young cock is con- 
sidered the best. 

Of turkey, the hen is preferred, though fre- 
quently quite young gobblers are roasted. 

Ducks and geese should not be over a year 
old. 

The proper course with barnyard fowls is to 
keep them, for six days at least before they are 
killed, in a spacious, clean coop, feeding them 
corn for at least five days, and then soft-boiled 
rice or skimmed milk for the last day. For the 
last night they should have no food, but plenty 
of water. The result will be light, delicately 
flavored flesh, clean intestines, and an empty 
" crop." 



34 THE CCXDKING SCHOOL 

KILLING A FOWL 

Open the mouth, of the fowl and cut it on the 
inside of the neck, severing the jugular vein 
with a sharp knife. 

It is important to hang up poultry at once 
by the feet so that the blood runs out freely, 
making the m^at whiter and more wholesome. 
Before it becomes cold, poultry should be care- 
fully picked, without breaking the skin any- 
where. 

Scalding chickens is a lazy way of get- 
ting rid of the feathers, is a very bad prac- 
tice, and renders the meat more likely to 
" spoil." 

Poultry should not be eaten until at least 
six or eight hours after killing, but should be 
picked and drawn promptly. 

SELECTING A FOWL 

Poultry should be full-grown, but not old. A 
chicken should be plump, but not so fat as to be 
heavy. The flesh ought to be firm, the end of 
the breastbone and the wing limber. 

The capon — ' ' spayed ' ' hen or castrated 
cock — combines the flavor of full-grown fowl 
with the delicacy and tenderness of a young 
" broiler." The meat is expensive and most 
delicious. 



MEAT 35 



DBAWING 



The chicken or turkey, being already picked, 
is held over a little flame, taking care not to let 
the soot collect on its skin. Turn it, unfold its 
wings, etc., until the long, hairy feathers are 
thoroughly singed off. Then put it at once into 
a pan of cold water, wash, rinse, and wipe it. 
Now chop off the head, leaving as much as pos- 
sible of the neck. Next, run your knife along 
the side of the legs, cutting the skin ; bend the 
legs so as to expose the sinews on top, holding 
the upper part of the leg; loosen the ligaments, 
and pull them out with a strong fork or skewer. 
This is the process of removing the feet. Then 
the joint muscle should be cut so as to expose 
the under ligaments, which are next drawn out. 
Finally, cut the muscle at the back. There are 
seven sinews in all to be drawn out. 

Turn the fowl over so as to be able to cut to 
the bone along the back of its neck. Pulling the 
skin back carefully, so as not to break it or the 
crop, the crop can be removed by cutting the 
part that holds it to the intestines of the neck 
after it has been loosened. 

The next thing is to remove the intestines : to 
do this, turn the fowl again on its back and 
loosen the intestines at the back with your 
fingers, making first a cut at the end of the 



36 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

breastbone. Loosen the lungs and heart at the 
cut made by the crop. Now remove, with care 
to keep them entire, the intestines and gizzard, 
taking them together through the opening at 
the breastbone. Take your knife again, and 
cut around the large intestine. Finally cut the 
oil-sack from the rump, and remove any blood- 
stains from the inside with a damp cloth. 

Stuffing, if desired, should be put in, and the 
vents sewn up before trussing. 

TKtrSSING 

The trussing ii? a very simple process, requir- 
ing only three stitches in all to secure the fowl 
from being " cooked out of shape." Krst, 
make an incision in the neck, close to the breast- 
bone, so that the skin can be turned back ; press 
the wings back over this skin, and secure them 
into shape with the first stitch. Holding the 
legs down close to the side, take the second 
stitch right through the fowl, bringing the 
needle back over the leg joints and tying on one 
side. 

Next, after working the skin skilfully over 
the end of the leg-bones, take the third stitch, 
fastening the legs to the rump by sewing' them 
against the side of the breastbone. 

The method of cleaning described above is 
applicable to evety variety of poultry. With 




Trussed Turkey for Baking 




Trussing on Back of Turkey 



MEAT 37 

ducks and geese, tlie gullet may be removed at 
tlie lower vent after being loosened at tbe 
neck. 

The gizzard, tbe liver, and the heart are called 
giblets'. The blue skin must be stripped off in 
order to open tbe gizzard, then the fleshy part 
is removed on one side at a time. This is the 
only proper way to do, as there will be a very 
disagreeable taste if the gizzard is merely 
turned inside-out after being cut in two. 

TUEKBYS 

The choice hen turkey — always a young one, 
of course — should have a broad, plump breast, 
black legs, and white' skin. The neck should be 
short. 

Turkeys and capons are singed, drawn, 
and trussed after the manner prescribed for 
chickens. 

DUCKS 

Tame ducks should be penned as recom- 
mended for chickens, for at least ten days before 
being killed. In order to give them the best 
flavor, they should be fed for a week or so on 
finely chopped celery or other spiced food. 

In selecting a duck, see that it has a plump 
breast, without being over-fat. If the duck is 
young, the lower leg will be smooth, and the 
webbing of the feet soft. A good test is to see 



38 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

if the under bill is soft; this should break 
readily when bent. 

Singe and clean as described above. Only 
two stitches are needed in trussing ; one to con- 
fine the legs close to the side, the other to fasten 
back the wings. 

Of wild ducks, the canvas-back is the fa- 
vorite. |The head feathers are smooth and 
short. The male has chestnut-colored head 
and neck, grayish sides and back, with black 
wings and tail, white underneath. In the fe- 
male the tints are duller, with fainter mark- 
ings. The head is short, with red iris, and very 
long, dark-greenish bill. 

Canvas-backs and red-heads are always sold 
with the feathers on. 

GEESE 

A goose should not be over three years old. 
"When young, the bill and webbing of the feet 
are as described in the case of young ducks; 
the legs are yellow and have soft dawn on 
them. 

Geese require to be cooked slowly, as they 
have much fat directly beneath the skin. 

PIGEONS AND SQUAB 

Young pigeons have very plump breasts. As 
they fly more th!an most of our domestic fowl, 



MEAT 39 

the breast grows small, and the muscles hard 
with age. 

A full-grown pigeon, being rather tough, is 
best served " potted "; the moist, slow method 
of cooking softening the meat. 

Squab is young pigeon, and is a real delicacy. 
The intestines are removed after splitting 
down the back, and the breastbone is broken 
with a strong knife or heavy utensil. They 
should be baked in a very hot oven, or broiled 
as spring chicken, and served on toast after 
the manner of quail. Admirable for a conva- 
lescent. 

GUINEA-FOWL 

The excellence of guinea-fowl, when properly 
cooked, is something that should be more gen- 
erally recognized. 

Their eggs are also far better than hen's 
eggs. 

The flesh of the guinea-hen is all dark, and 
indeed in other respects these birds seem more 
like wild than domestic fowl. 

HANGING GAME 

All of the wild creatures included under the 
head " game," having red meat, should be 
hung for a week or ten days in a dry, cold place 
before being cooked. 



40 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

It is better to " draw " fowls first, but the 
feathers may be left on while hanging, if pre- 
ferred. 

The meat of all varieties of game is easily 
digested by invalids, since these animals store 
the fat outside of the lean meat, and acquire 
fat much less rapidly than do the domestic va- 
rieties. 

VENISON 

The important point to remember ahoiit ven- 
ison is that it must be served and eaten im- 
mediately after cooking. If allowed to stand 
at all, the meat immediately becomes difficult to 
eat. Cooked in the chafing-dish, and eaten at 
once, it is very fine. 

Venison can bekeptin a cold place better than 
domestic meat, as it comes healthy and tender 
from the deer. , 

Venison is sometimes cured after the man- 
ner of curing mutton hams. 

BELGIAN HAEE AND SQUIEEEL 

Belgian hare is becoming more popular, es- 
pecially in the West, and is often eaten as 
" boned turkey," from tins. As its fur is val- 
uable, this is always removed before the a,ni- 
mal appears for sale in market. No animal is 
cleaner, and for the sake of the fur it is well 



MEAT 41 

nourished, wMcli improves the flavor of its 
flesh as well. 

The meat is tender, white, and firm, and the 
broth made from it is said to be better for in- 
valids than almost any other. The meat is 
used in as many ways as is chicken, even to 
salad. 

The meat of ordinary rabbits and of squir- 
rels may also be cooked in the same variety of 
ways, remembering, however, that rabbit flesh 
must be cooked slowly and long, on account of 
its density, in order to render it digestible. 



LESSON IV 

FISH 

Althottgh the fish is an inhabitant of water 
and cannot live out of it, the amount of water 
in the flesh itself is only slightly higher than 
that of meat; one hundred pounds of fish with- 
out bone containing fi:'om 75 to 85 per cent, 
of water; whilst meat from a healthy land- 
animal contains about seventy-five to eighty. 
A few, especially oily fish, contain an extra 10 
per cent, of fat, and that much less water. 

FISH ANALYSES SgOW: 





A White Fish 
(Flounder) 


A Very Oily Fish 
(Salmon) 


Water . 
Fat 

Salts . 
Nitrogenous 


matter 


80.4 
2.0 
3.6 

14.0 


64.0 

12.2 

1.8 

22.0 


• 


100.0 


100.0 



Fish, therefore, belongs to the class of nitrog- 
enous foods which build up and repair flesh 
and tissues, but, although having almost as 
much nitrogenous or proteid matter as meat, it 



FTSH 43 

is not so nourishing, for a larger proportion of 
the proteids is in the form of gelatine, which is 
less valuable to the animal economy than is al- 
bumen, of which the nitrogenous part of meat is 
almost entirely composed.- 

Fish contains more phosphorus than meat; 
the active fish, like troijt and pickerel, having 
the greatest percentage. 

Fish is well adapted for persons whose 
physical labor is not considerable, and the con- 
stituents lacking can easily be supplied by an 
intelligent caterer, who would serve potatoes 
and cucumbers or lettuce with French dressing, 
to make up the deficiency of carbo-hydrates and 
fats. 

Fish with piak or dark flesh have fat dis- 
tributed through the whole body, and are in 
consequence more difficult of digestion, but they 
contain more nutriment, and better supply the 
needs of a strong, active man; such fish are 
salmon, sturgeon, catfish, and mackerel. 

Fish white of flesh, like the flounder and 
English sole, are most easy to digest and serve 
for invalids and persons of delicate organiza- 
tion. 

Stale fish and those kept in cold-storage are 
not wholesome, nor do they retain their flavor, 
and it is better to be satisfied with those in 
season. They have a plan abroad of catching 



44 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

fish in nets 'and keeping them alive until sold, 
which is a most wholesome one. 

In Purchasing Fish choose only those in 
which the flesh is thick and firm, the scales 
bright and stiff, the eyes full and prominent. 

Cleaning Fish. — This is usually done by the 
fishmonger and varies according to the fish 
dealt with. The gills, liver, intestines, etc., are 
first removed; often some skin; then portions 
of the fins and sometimes the head. These cut- 
tings often equal the remaining flesh in weight 
and nutriment, and a clever cook will make from 
them a concentrated liquor which can be util- 
ized to enrich the fauces served with the cooked 
fish. French and English cooks have several 
excellent soups and stews made entirely from 
these cuttings. More bones can be removed 
without breaking the flesh than is commonly 
done, and much trouble saved the guest. 

METHODS OF COOKING FISH 
BOILING PISH 

This is rather wasteful, as so much of the nu- 
triment and juices of the fish is lost in the proc- 
ess ; never less than 5 per cent,, and as much as 
30, going into the water in which the fish is 
boiled. To. reduce this loss to the minimum the 
fish should be placed in absolutely boiling water 



nSH 45 

containing plenty of salt, which seasons and also 
keeps in the nutriment. The fish should be 
washed well in cold water, rubbed with salt, 
wrapped in a. cloth, and dropped into the boil- 
ing water; a slice of onion added and allowed 
to simmer gently for ten minutes to each pound 
weight; then carefully lifted out, drained, and 
the cloth removed. Boiled fish is garnished 
with parsley and slices of lemon, and served 
with boiled potatoes or potato-balls, lettuce 
with French dressing, or cucumbers, and either 
sauce Hollandaise, shrimp or oyster sauce, or 
plain drawn butter in a sauce-boat. 

From the cold boiled fish, left-over fish cut- 
lets, devilled fish, creamed fish, salad, or cro- 
quettes can be made. Steaming fish is far more 
economical than boiling. A simple steamer 
consists of a cylinder with perforated bottom 
whi(ii can take the place of the lid of a saucepam, 
when that is removed. The saucepan is kept 
supplied with boiling water until the fish placed 
in the upper compartment is cooked; about 
twenty minutes to the pound will usually suf- 
fice, or until the fish easily removes from, the 
bone. By this process far less of the nutriment 
is lost; G-arnish the same as boiled fish. Large 
fish are the ones usually boiled or steamed. 
4 



46 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

FBYING 

By frying is not meant the work in the ordi- 
nary household frying-pan, from which the most 
greasy, unpalatable, and indigestible dishes are 
turned out. Frying means immersion in oil or 
fat at a temperature of 360° Fahr. 

Well-clarifled beef-dripping is the best fat to 
use ; lard the worst, as it is easily absorbed and 
leaves the fish greasy; olive is the best oil, but 
various cocoanut products and several cotton- 
seed oils, are good. 

Small fish are the ones most often fried, but 
eutlets of larger fish are often used. The fish 
are washed and cleaned, washed again and 
wiped dry inside and out. Sufficient oil or fat 
must be put in the pan to completely immerse 
the fish. 

Brush the fish or portions with egg beaten 
without separating, and cover with bread 
crumbs made as fine as possible. Heat the oil, 
and before placing the fish in it test the temper- 
ature by throwing ia a crumb of bread; if it 
browns in half a minute the oil is hot enough, 
and it must not be heated until it smokes. 

Put the prepared fish into the wire frying- 
basket and place them in the oil, and when they 
are browned and the outside crisp, lift out and 
drain on blotting paper in a hotplace. 



FBH 47 

Dish fried fish on a folded napkin and garnish 
with lemon and parsley. The egg-'and-crumb 
coating forms, as soon as it touches the hot oil, 
an impenetrable coating which keeps the oil out 
and the fish juices in ; the crumbs are made very 
fine so that little oil may be absorbed by them, 
and the fish does not become greasy. 

FILLETS 

Whitefish, rock or black bass, flounders, or 
the English sole give the best fillets. The fish 
is cleaned and scaled and the flesh removed 
froin the bone by drawing a sharp knife on each 
side' of the bone the length of the fish. 

The flesh is cut into strips an inch wide, the 
strips rolled over and fastened with a skewer. 
The fillets are now immersed in the hot oil as in 
frying, and in three or four minutes will be 
cooked. They are drained on blotting paper, 
and served on a napkin, garnished with parsley 
and lemon. 

PISH FBIOASSEE 

Take a pound of fish, out the cleaned fish into 
pieces about an inch and a half square and put 
in a saucepan 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, and a 
chopped onion, and cook untU the onion is soft. 
Put in the fish, cover the saucepan and cook 
for ten minutes, and then pour over it a pint of 



48 THE COOKING SCHc^L 



strained tomatoes; add a teaspoonful of salt, 
half that amount of pepper, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, cook for five minutes more, 
and serve. This is good for yellow perch or 
black bass. 

For a pleasant change, salmon may be 
fricasseed in the following way. Put small 
pieces of salmon (about an inch square) into a 
pan with half a cupful of water, a little salt 
and white pepper, 1 clove, 1 bead of mace, 
3 pieces of sugar, 1 shallot, and a heaping tea- 
spoonful of mustard, mixed with half a tea- 
cupful of vinegar. 

Let this boil up once and add six tomatoes 
peeled and cut into tiny pieces, a few sprigs of 
parsley, finely minced, and a wineglassful of 
sherry. Let all simmer for three-quarters of 
an hour. Serve hot, and garnish with toast 
cut in triangular pieces. 

BAKED FISH 

Open the fish at the gills and draw all the 
intestines through the opening; clean the in- 
side. Stuff the fish with a mixture of bread- 
crumbs, butter, and parsley, the beaten yolk of 
an egg with salt and pepper, and sew down the 
head firmly, or if pork is used, make gashes 
down to the bone two inches apart and fill these 
gashes with larding-pork; dust the fish thickly 



FISH 49 

with bread crumbs, pour a little water and some 
butter over it and bake as you would a fowl, 
with frequent bastings for an hour or hour and 
a half. Lift out carefully with a long fish slice 
and garnish with slices of lemon and water- 
cress. 

Bluefish is usually served with tomato sauce, 
but an excellent sauce for most fish is made 
from the gravy in which the fish was baked; a 
large tablespoonful of catsup, a tablespoonful 
of brown flour moistened with water, the juice 
of a lemon, and a glass of sherry or madeira. 
It is served in a sauceboat. This method serves 
for bluefish, shad, and all fish except carp, which 
is treated a little differently. 

Clean the carp as before; wash the flesh all 
over with vinegar; let it stand for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Fill the fish with bread-stuff- 
ing and sew down the head, then brush the fish 
all over with egg.and cover it thickly with bread 
crumbs, and put over it a few lumps of butter. 
Place the fish in a granite pan with two chopped 
onions, a bunch of parsley, a cup of water, with 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and a 
teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, if you have it. 
Bake in a moderate oven for an hour with fre- 
quent basting. Lift carefully out when done, 
garnish with parsley and lemon. For sauce, 
use the liquor from the baking-pan, and to it 



50 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

' I ■■ I 

add a tablespoonful of butter and one of flpiii" 
well rubbed together; make up to half a pint 
with boiling water, turn the whole back into the 
pan, cook for a moment and strain; add the 
juice of a lemon, season with salt and pepper, 
and serve in a sauceboat. 

For establishments having an open fire the 
plan of roasting produces a dish which shows 
the fish at its best. The fish after cleaning is 
put in a shallow pan which fits in a Dutch or 
American oven, is lightly spread 'with butter, 
roasted in front of a clear fire, and basted with 
its own juices. The whole flavor of the fish is 
retained, and the action of the fire browns the 
surface and gives the appetizing flavor known 
as ' ' tasting of the fire. ' ' 

BROILING FISH 

The fish is scaled, split down the back, 
washed, dried, and dusted with salt and pepper. 
The middle thin portion is folded over to give 
an even thickness, and the fish placed on a wire 
broiler. Butter is brushed on the flesh side, 
and it is held near a perfectly clear fire until 
nicely browned, then turned and browned on the 
skin side. Then for twenty minutes it is slowly 
broiled on the flesh side at a distance of six or 
eight inches from the fire, raised on a couple of 
bricks or a broiler-stand, and afterwards on the 



FISH SI 

skin side for ten minutes ; care being taken not 
to burn it. The fish is finally basted with butter 
and should be served at once. 

To broil on a gas stove, prepare the fish as 
above and put under the flames an iron bak- 
ing-pan, and when it is very hot grease lightly 
with butter. Put the fish in skin side down, 
baste with butter, dust lightly with salt and 
pepper and put it under the flame in the broil- 
ing oven on the very bottom of the stove, turn 
the lights down as low as possible, and broil 
slowly for half an hour. Lift out carefully, 
spread butter over it, sprinkle with a little 
lemon juice, serve quickly. 

For broiling with an oil stove the oven must 
first be made very hot, the fish prepared in the 
same way, and a long baking-pan put over a 
strong flame. When the pan is hot, put in a 
little butter, and place the fish skin side down, 
afterward baste with butter and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Put it into the oven near the 
top and cook for half an hour, basting with 
melted butter once or twice ; serve when brown. 

If a narrow, heavy iron pan or a narrow, 
long asbestos mat be placed on the lower shelf 
over the flame, the heat will be driven round 
the sid.es to the top of the oven, and reflected 
from the top on the fish, which will then brown 
on the upper side. 



52 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

PLANKED FISH 

The fish is cooked on a hard wood plaiik, oak, 
hickory, or ash, about an inch thick, to fit the 
oven like a shelf, and rather wider than the 
fish. 

Shad is most often planked, though any 
white-fleshed fish is good cooked in this way. 

To plank with a gas stove, the plank is well 
rubbed with salt and made thoroughly hot. 
The fish is split ^wn the back, washed, wiped 
dry, basted with butter, and dusted with salt and 
pepper. It is put on the plank skin side down, 
and placed under the gas stove as far away 
from the flames as possible. The lights are 
turned rather high until the flsh has a good 
color, when they are turned down and the 
cooking continued slowly for thirty minutes ; 
garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve on 
the plank. 

The fish is often surrounded by mashed po- 
tatoes pressed through a forcing bag and after- 
wards browned in the oven. 

To plank in an oil stove, makfe the stove very 
hot, put in the plank with the side on which 
you will plank the fish turned down. After the 
plank is hot proceed as with a gas stove, except 
that the heat is kept full; the fish is near the 



FISH 53 

top on the upper grate, and an asbestos mat is 
put on the lower grate to drive the heat around 
and on top of the board as in broiling. 

Plank in a coal stove the same way, but be 
sure that the plank is hot before placing the 
fish on it, and cook as near the top of the oven 
as possible. 

Fish is very fine planked before a wood fire. 
The board is made hot, the fish prepared as be- 
fore ; attached with two nails driven through the 
head and one through the tail, then reared up in 
front of a good clear, strong wood fire, basted 
occasionally with melted butter and cooked for 
at least half an hour until the fish is a nice dark 
brown. 

DEVILLED FISH 

For' this the left-over cold, boiled fish may be 
used, or a pound of fish boiled on purpose. 

It is separated into good-sized fiakes, and the 
following ingredients then prepared. A table- 
spoonful of butter is rubbed into the same 
amount of flour; half a pint of milk is added 
and stirred on the stove until boiling; 3 
hard-boiled eggs are chopped very fine with a 
tablespoonf ul of parsley, salt, and pepper ; the 
fish is carefully mixed in. Fill small oyster or 
clam shells with the mixture and, when cool, 
cover the top of each with beaten egg, dust with 



54 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

bread crumbs, carefully filling in the edges be- 
tween the shells and the mixture. When it is 
time to serve put them, a few at a time, into the 
frying basket and immerse in hot fat. Serve 
with cucumber sauce or sauce tartare, or plain. 

SMOKED AND CUEBD FISH 

Prepare a curing mixture of one pint of 
Liverpool salt, a pint of best brown sugar, and 
an ounce of saltpetre mixed well together. 
Scale and wash 20 poumds of fish, and wipe 
them perfectly dry, not allowing them to re- 
main in water for an instant. Eub the fish 
thoroughly inside and out with the mixture, 
and place them on top of one another on an ab- 
solutely clean board, and above put another 
board with a weight of at least ten pounds. 
Leave them in a cold place for sixty hours; 
drain, wipe each dry; stretch open and fasten 
with small crossed sticks. Put in the smoking- 
house for five days, or instead of a smoking- 
house take a barrel with the ends knocked out, 
make a smothered fire in the bottom with a few 
chips of hard wood. Lay the fish on sticks 
across the top when the fire is lighted, throw a 
cover over the open end, and allow the fish to 
smoke. 

Whitefish, shad, mackerel, and roe-herring 
are all cured in this way. 



FISH 55 



SALTED FISH 

Salmon, shad, mackerel, or whitefish are the 
best adapted for salting. The fish are cleaned 
and scaled, washed and wiped quickly; fhen 
put in a perfectly clean sack, covered with cold 
brine, strong enough to float an egg; a small 
board placed on the top with a weight will keep 
the fish under the brine. 

AMBBICAN FISH 

The cod is perhaps the most common and 
most useful fish consumed in America. It is 
caught in enormous quantities in the cold waters 
of the Labrador current along the northern 
coasts. It is an excellent-tasting fish, fries well 
in slices or fillets, baked or broiled. 

The tongue and sounds are used as special 
'dishes. Isinglass is made from the swim- 
ming bladders, and cod-liver oil from the 
liver. Cod is in season all the year round, 
but best in winter. Haddock is very similar to 
cod, but not so useful, as it has such a large 
head, whiph is entirely waste. Like cod it is a 
winter fish. 

The halibut, closely allied to the European 
turbot, is about the largest fish brought to the 
market, and is cut into slices and sold at about 
twenty-five cents a pound, and being solid flesh, 



56 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

with little waste, is economical. Young halibut, 
weighing about twelve pounds, are sold whole 
as " chicken halibut." Halibut is in season 
aU the year, but finest during winter. 

Salmon is one of the best of all fish; it is a 
strong, rich food with a flavor entirely its own, 
though this flavor is only properly known in 
places where the fish is caught, for in sixteen or 
twenty hours after death, the delicate oil, to 
which the flavor is due, begins to decompose, 
and the fish, though still fine, is not the same. 

Salmon is usually boiled whole or in slices, or 
may be sliced and broiled; or planked and 
served with sauce HoUandaise is the premier 
dinner dish. Salmon being caught in so many 
places at different times of the year can be ob- 
tained at all times, but in the East it is finest 
from March to June, when caught in Maine 
and Canada, whilst in the West salmon is best 
from October to March. 

The flounder, the American counterpart of 
the English sole, is an excellent baking fish, but 
not so delicate as the sole. It is good fried in 
fillets or dished au gratin. 

Flounders are best in May. The shad is a 
very popular fish, which is largely planked, but 
very good broiled ; it should not be fried, as it 
already contains too much oil. Shad is in 
season from February until the middle of June. 



FISH 57 

Bluefish is almost always baked, and makes 
a fine dish. It is in season from April to the 
middle of November. : 

Sheep's-head, weakfish, sea bass, and porgies 
are all excellent fish for planking, broiling, or 
boiling, and are in season from March to Oc- 
tober, but best about May. 

The tvhitefish from the Great Lakes are excel- 
lent all-round fish when fresh from the water. 
Planked they are better than shad. They also 
come in about March and go out early in No- 
vember. 

In Southern waters are found the red snap- 
per, Spanish mackerel, king-fish, mullet, and 
pompano, the latter called the king of all fish, 
and when properly boiled it tastes like a young 
chicken: it is finest in May; the snapper is also 
fine boiling fish, and good from April to Oc- 
tober; the kihg-fish is excellent in any style. 
The Spanish mackerel is at its prime in Sep- 
tember. 

, Brook-trout open on April 1st, and reach 
their finest condition in May. 

Fish like herring and porgies, full of bones, 
are usually rolled in bread crumbs and fried. 
Boneless salted herring' makes a good appetiser 
for beginning a lunch. 

Fish without scales, eels and catfish, are not 
wholesome unless taken from very clear water. 



58 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

They are skinned, dipped in egg and bread 
erumbs, and fried. 

The sturgeon is the largest fresh-water 
fish and is very nourishing indeed, though 
rather harder of digestion than most other 
fish. 

In general, cod, haddock, and halibut are 
winter fish, and finest in that season, whilst all 
others are summer fish and arrive at their best 
before September. 

Many summer fish are, however, sent up dur- 
ing winter in refrigerator cars, and though not 
in the finest condition, are quite edible. 

Crustaceans and Molluscs. — Lobster, prawns, 
and crayfish are the chief American crusta- 
ceans found on our tables, but, though very pop- 
ular, they are very difficult of digestion through 
the character of the fleshJ They must be fresh 
and alive when cooked. If they die before cook- 
ing they are most dangerous. They are in 
season during summer, arid should be avoided 
after September. Soft-shell crabs are the ordi- 
nary crab caught as it is shedding its shell, and 
no crustacean is in a healthy state at this 
period, but the palates of many people have 
been trained to like the flavor, and they are in 
great demand. 

The molluscs, of which oysters and clams 
are most consumed, come also under the head of 



FISH 59 

dangerous foods, as they are perhaps as un- 
clean as any animal food and are frequently 
fattened in most questionable places. Never- 
theless, so far does taste overcome hygiene that 
they are eaten alive, intestines and all. Many 
cases of typhoid have been directly traced to 
the eating of raw oysters. 

When cooked the germs are killed and the risk 
of transmitted disease avoided. 

BBOILED PISH 

Prepare an oily fish, like shad, mackerel, 
herring, bluefish, salmon, or butterfish, since 
they do not become dry when broiled. 

Eemove the head and tail from a small fish 
and split it down the back. If a thick fish is 
used, cut it across the bone into inch slices, and 
remove the bone. A whitefish must be rubbed 
with butter, because its flesh is dry. 

Grease a wire broiler, lay in the fish, hold the 
thickest side next a clear fire and brown the 
flesh side first, raising it a little occasionally, so 
that it may not burn. Turn it, and cook the 
skin until crisp. Keep turning it, until the flesh 
is firm. Slip it on a hot platter, with the skin 
side down, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
little lemon-juice, if liked. Sliced lemon or 
pickles are usually served with fish. ' 



60 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

BAKED FISH 

A fish weighing from 3 to 6 or 8 pounds may 
be baked, or stuffed and baked. Wipe the fish, 
cut off the head and side-fins. Fill with stuff- 
ing, sew together, and cut gashes two inches 
apart in the sides. Place the fish upright ih a 
roastiag-pan, skeweriag or tying it into the 
shape of an S. Put bits of butter or dripping, 
or thin slices of fat, salt pork in the gashes, 
under the fish, and in the pan. Dredge the fish 
with flour, and bake in a hot oven. When the 
flour is brown, baste with the fat, and continue 
to baste once in ten minutes. Cook until the 
flfesh is firm, and, on being touched, separates 
easily from the bone. Remove from the oven, 
take out the skewers or strings, lay the fish on a 
hot platter, and serve with fish sauce or tomato 
sauce. In serving a fish cut the flesh into neat 
pieces, two> inches wide, lift it from the bone, 
and place it on the plate. Do not cut through 
the large bone. 

STtTFPING FOE A BAKED FISH 

1 cup fine bread or cracker crumbs; 1 tea- 
spoonful chopped onion, scalded; % teaspoon- 
ful salt; 1/4 teaspoonful pepper; 1 teaspoonful 
lemon juice; i/4 cup melted butter; milk or 
water to moisten. 



^ FISH 61 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Use enough 
liquid to make th6 stufl&ng stick together. If a 
dry stuffing is preferred, omit the milk or water. 
Dry stuffing is sometimes spread over a slice of 
fish beforfe it is baked. The above quantities 
are sufficient for a fish weighing from 4 to 6 
pounds. 

FISH SAUCE 

2 cups water, milk, or fish-stock ; 4 tablespoon- 
f uls butter ; 2 tablespoonfuls flour ; % teaspoon- 
f ul pepper ; % teaspoonf ul salt. 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls butter in a saucepan, and 
cook the flour in it. Add the boiling liquid, the 
remainder of the butter in small pieces, and the 
salt and pepper. Boil fi!ve minutes and serve. 
This is sometimes called drawn butter sauce. 

EGG SAUCE 

Chop 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs, and stir into the 
fish sauce. 

BOILED FISH 

Lay a slice of fish on a plate, place the plate, 
in the centre of a square of clean cloth, and tie 
the four corners loosely together. Place it on a 
stand in a kettle of boiling salted water, and let 
the water simmer. Allow twenty minutes to 
each pound. Lift it out, untie the cloth, and if 
the flesh is firm and separates easily from the 



a. THE C CX)K1NG 'SCHOOL 

bone, it is done. If not done, simmer longer, 
and examine it once in ten minutes. Serve with 
egg sauce, fish or tomato sauce. 

CBEAMED FISH 

1 cup cold, baked or boiled, fried or broiled 
fish; 1 cup white sauce; 2 tablespoonfuls bread 
crumbs. 

Remove the bones, skin, and brown crust from 
the fish. Flake the fish, mix it with the hot 
white sauce, pour into a buttered dish, sprinkle 
the crumbs over the top, and brown. If liked, 
y^ teaspoonful onion may be cooked in the white 
sauce, and 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley may 
be added to it before mixing it with the fish. 

SALT FISH-BALLS 

2 medium-sized potatoes; Vg cup shredded 
codfish; 1 even teaspoonful butter, melted; % 
Q^^, or 4 teaspoonf uls beaten Q^'g ; sprinkle pep- 
per ; fat for frying. 

Pare, quarter, and boil the potatoes. Meas- 
ure the fish, which contains no bones, and is cut 
fine and packed in salt. Soak the fish in cold 
water ten minutes to draw out the salt, and press 
it well in a fine strainer to make it dry. When 
the potatoes are -soft, add the fish and shake 
them over the fire to dry them. Mash, add the 
seasoning, butter, and beaten egg. Mash all 



FKH 63 

together, shape on a tablespoon, or roll into 
round cakes, fry in deep, hot fat, drain on clean 
brown paper and serve hot, arranged neatly on 
a hot platter. In place of the Vs cup shredded 
fish, % cup ordinary salt fish may be used. 
Wash it, remove the bones, cut into small pieces, 
and cook with the potatoes. The great advan- 
tage of the shredded fish is that it does not need 
to be cooked, and so does not cause any odor of 
fish in the house. Cold, cooked fish, with the 
bones removed, and separated into fine flakes, 
may be used instead of the salt fish. 
/ 

FISH CHOWDEK 

1 pound cod or haddock; 1 even tablespoonful 
dripping; 1 small onion; % teaspoonful salt; 
sprinkling of pepper ; 2 potatoes ; 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter; 1 tablespoonful flour; 1 cup milk; 2 
crackers. 

Put the fish-head, bones, fins, and skin into 1 
cup cold water, and simmer to extract the nutri- 
ment. Brown the onion in the dripping. Pare 
and slice the potatoes, and parboil five minutes to 
remove the bitter juice. Strain the water from 
the fish-bones, add it to the potatoes, scrape in 
the browned onion, and add the salt and pepper. 
When boiling, add the fish, cut in inch pieces, 
and simmer from ten to twenty minutes, until 
the potatoes and fish are done. Cook the butter, 



64 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

flour, and milk together to make a white sauce, 
add to the chowder, boil up once, add the 
crackers broken in quarters, and serve in a hot 
dish. 

OYSTERS 
TO PKEPABB OYSTEES FOB COOKING 

Take up each oyster separately in the fingers 
and remove all bits of shell or seaweed. Strain 
the liquid through a fine strainer, so that it may 
be used if desired. 

PANNED OYSTEBS 

25 oysters; 1 tablespoonful butter; l^ tea- 
spoonful salt; sprinkling of pepper. 

Put the oysters in a saucepan without any 
water. Shake them over a moderate fire until, 
they look plump and the edges are curled. Add 
the butter, salt, and pepper, and stir the season- 
ing in well. Serve in a hot dish. If liked, they 
may be served on slices of toast, or with crou- 
tons in the dish. 

CBEAMED OYSTEBS 

25 oysters; 1 cup white sauce. 

Pick over the oysters and cook them va. a 
saucepan, as directed for panned oysters. 
Drain them in a strainer ; make the white sauce, 



FISH 65 

and stir the oysters into the hot sauce. They 
may be served on toast, or bread crumbs, 
browned in butter, may be sprinkled over them. 
% teaspoon celery salt, and a sprinkle of cay- 
enne pepper, or 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 
may be added to the sauce if desired. 

OYSTBB STEW 

25 oysters; 1 cup milk; 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter; 1 tablespoonful flour; 3 allspice; % tea- 
spoonf al salt ; 14 teaspoonful pepper. 

Pick over the oysters, strain the liquor, and 
put it on to boil. Cook the butter and flour to- 
/ gether, and add the liquid gradually to make a 
smooth sauce. Add the milk and, the season- 
ing, and when it comes to a boil, add the oysters 
and cook slowly, not allowing them to boil, until 
they are plump and the edges are curled. 

SCALLOPED OYSTEBS 

25 oysters; 1 cup cracker or bread crumbs; 
V3 cup butter, melted ; salt and pepper. 

Prepare the oystera. Mix the butter and 
crumbs. Butter a baking-dish and sprinkle 
part of the crumbs in it. Spread in a layer of 
oysters and sprinkle a little salt and pepper 
over them. Then put in another layer of 
crumbs, then oysters and seasoning, and finish 
with a layer of crimibs on the top. Pour in 2 



66 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

or 3 tablespoonfuls, or more if liked, of the 
oyster liquor, or milk, to moisten the crumbs. 
Bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes, until the 
crumbs are brown. 

If dried crumbs are used, 1 cup or more of 
liquid may be needed. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Pick over the oysters, drain them in a 
strainer, lay them on a clean cloth, :f!old the 
cloth over them, and pat them gently to dry 
them. Shake salt and pepper over them. 
Beat an egg and stir into it 1 tablesi!)oonful cold 
water or milk. Sprinkle some fine crumbs with 
salt and pepper and lay them in a shallow dish. 
Dip the oysters in the crumbs, then in the 
beaten egg, and again in the crumbs, covering 
them all over each time. Fry them in deep, hot 
fat, drain on brown paper, and serve hot on a 
hot dish. 

BROILED OYSTERS 

Prepare the oysters, butter a wire broiler, 
lay in the oysters, hold them over a clear fire, 
and turn them every ten seconds until they look 
plump and curled up 'at the edges. Butter, and 
serve hot on a hot dish. 



LESSON V 
MILK 

Pbaotioally, in speaking of railk, we have in 
mind cow's milk. But it must be remembered 
that in some countries the milk of other animals 
is used as food; as that of goats, of asses, and of 
mares. The latter is used in the preparation of 
fermented milk, known as Komniss, which is 
properly a medicine rather than a food. 

We have already considered milk as to its es- 
sential constituents, caseine, butter, sugar of 
milk, and salts. There are a few other proper- 
ties which it is useful to know about. 

Milk is an article of food which changes with 
remarkable facility. Even when handled with 
the greatest care, it carries in it germs from the 
air which cause it to imdergo quickly a re- 
markable modification. Under the action of the 
ferment of sour milk it becomes more and more 
acid because a part of the sugar of milk is 
transformed by this germ into lactic acid. 
When the quantity of acid has reached a cer- 
tain limit, this acid coagulates the caseine and 
causes the cheese of the milk to pass from a 

67 



68 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

liquid state to that of solid particles. We say 
then that the milk is curdled or sour. This acid 
fermentation is more common at the ordinary 
temperature than when near the freezing point. 
That is why milk curdles more easily in summer 
than in winter. This accidental souring of the 
milk is retarded by scalding the milk, for the 
heat kills the germ. But sometimes the effort to 
save the milk may only hasten the process when 
the quantity of acid formed is not sufficient tp 
sour the milk when cold, but is sufficient to co- 
agulate it when heated. 

We can understand from this that in the art 
of cooking, milk does not go well with an acid, 
or an acid food, especially if heated. 

Milk passes through another sort of coagu- 
lation: that which occurs shortly after its pas- 
sage into the stomach. The gastric juices of 
the stomach secrete an acid which is very likely 
to coagulate the milk. This is a perfectly 
natural phenomenon, and we are not justilSed 
in regarding such changes as accidents, or an 
indication of disordered digestion. For the 
first duty of a healthy stoma;ch is to turn the 
milk which it receives. That is also why cheese- 
makers use the " rennet," which is the fourth 
stomach of calves, to coagulate the milk to make 
cheese. 

The rapid change which milk undergoes, and 



MILK 69 

the danger which it may present as a means of 
communicating certain affections, such as tu- 
berculosis, should invariably be met by sterili- 
zation. Much might be said upon this point, 
but, as the only means of sterilization that is 
practical in the kitchen is boiling, we will con- 
fine our attention to that form. This method of 
sterilization is very effective, provided that the 
process of boiling is continued for several 
minutes. When the milk rises for the first time, 
the phenomenon is not due to boiling, but to the 
escape of gas, for the milk has not yet reached 
the boiling point, and the dangerous germs are 
not yet killed. It is then necessary to remove 
it from the fire and stir it, and then to replace it 
as soon as the foaming has subsided. It will be 
found that after rising several times it will set- 
tle down to a steady and quiet boiling. 

There is 88 per cent, of water in good milk. 
Yet it is a complete and perfect food for the 
new-born, provided that such receive the milk 
of its own species. The milk of the cow is three 
times as rich in albumen as the human milk. 
Hence we see the advisability of diluting cow's 
milk when fed to very young children. The 
mUk of the dog is over five times as rich in al- 
bumen as the human milk, and that of the hare, 
seven times. These great differences explain 
the enormously rapid increase in weight of the 



70 THE C(X>KING SCHOOL 

young in their first days. Thus a child doubles 
its weight in 180 days ; a calf in 47 ; a pup in 9 ; 
and a young hare in 6 days. 

A great inconvenience of an absolute mUk 
diet for an adult is the very large quantity of 
several quarts which would be needed. This 
would not become repugnant, but would fatigue 
the digestive tube; but even if such diet could 
be borne it would be found that the subject 
would soon become pallid, weak, and sickly. 
Just why is not known, but it is evident that 
while it is a perfect food for the young, milk is 
unfit for the adult. Among the materials 
which it lacks must be mentioned iron. It is 
one of the weakest foods in this respect that are 
known. The new-born is adapted for this state 
of things, for he brings with him from the mo- 
ment of his birth a supply of iron which he uses 
little by little during his period of nursing. 
Physicians are agreed that children which nurse 
for fifteen or eighteen months or two years, as 
is the custom in Eussia and in Southern Europe, 
are unhealthy, flabby, anaemic, and are long in 
walMng. 

In spite of these inconveniences milk is an im- 
portant factor in our nourishment, since it sup- 
plies what would otherwise be deficiencies by its 
addition to other foods. 

The digestibility of milk is in general very 



MILK 71 

good. When a quart of milk was taken it was 
found that all of the sugar of milk was absorbed, 
and only 6 per cent, of the albumen and 4 per 
cent, of the butter escaped. 

BUTTER 

The rapidity with which milk undergoes a 
change caused man, very early in history, to ex- 
tract from it the nutritious matters which it con- 
tains, and which are capable of being kept for a 
much longer time. 

Butter is frequently adulterated with other 
fats, and especially by oleomargarine. The de- 
tection of these adulterations is often very dif- 
ficult. One of the surest methods is to know 
whence or from whom the butter is pro- 
cured. 

Butter that is badly washed becomes acid and 
rancid. Such butter is kept only by being 
heavily salted, which renders it unfit for table 
use. Its last resource is for cooking pur- 
poses. But it must be remembered that much 
food is spoiled by cooking with over-salted, 
butter. 

The cheaper grades of butter contain a very 
high percentage of water, and are not at all 
economical; for it hardly pays to buy water, 
even at the price of cheap butter. 



71 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

CHEESE 

Human ingenuity has addressed itself with 
rare success to the preparation of the different 
varieties of cheese known to the modern gour- 
met, and with which the palate, jaded by a long 
course of delicate viands, is again sharpened for 
that final taste which lends completeness to the 
feast. Of the varieties of cheese there is practi- 
cally no end; each nation having more or less 
distinguished itself m this line of manufacture 
and perfected some specific brand for which a 
universal demand seems to have arisen. 

To refer to first principles : 

Cheese is generally obtained by coagulating 
milk with rennet, and the curds which result 
contain the greater part of the butter. The 
mass is then treated in a variety of ways ; salted 
or spiced, and more or less compressed. In 
those ways cheeses of different sorts are ob- 
tained. From a nutritious point of view cheese 
may be classed as follows : 

1. Cream, or very fat cheese, which is made 
from cream and rich milk, contains more butter 
than caseine. Gervais cheese is an example. 

2. Fat cheese. This is made from rich milk 
and contains very little more butter than 
caseine. Brie and Camembert are examples. 

3. Semi-fat cheese. This is made from 



MILK 73 

partly skimined milk and fresh milk mixed. It 
contains much less butter than caseine. Dutch 
cheese is an example. 

4. Thin cheese. This is made from skimmed 
milk and is very poor in fats. 

The digestibility of cheese is very good. 
When it is taken in moderation it is considered 
to aid the digestion of other foods. On ac- 
count of its richness in albumen it is of the 
highest class of foods. 

The varieties of cheese one has the choice of 
nowadays are so diversified and extensive- that 
a description of the leading kinds becomes a 
necessary feature of any volume dealing with 
the question of eating. The public taste in re- 
gard to cheese differs so widely that it would 
scarcely be safe to mention any particular make 
as being the favorite. To one Brie, to another 
Gorgonzola, to another Oamembert, are wel- 
come, whilst another will prefer Stilton, Neuf- 
diatel, Gruyere, or Eoquefort. 

Each of these famous makes has its especial 
flavor and hold upon the public palate, and 
whilst the product of various countries, under 
modem systems of dairying can be made in any 
country, although as yet the sophistry of 
modem commerce has not succeeded in divert- 
ing much of the manufacture of favorite kinds 
from the original seats of the industry. 



74 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



The making of good cheese depends upon 
good milk, which gets us back to the breed of 
cattle most suitable for the purposes of a dairy 
farm. It is a proven fact that the breed of a 
cow has more to do with the quality of the 
cheese than the food taken, although rich pas- 
tures are essential to the production of the 
highest grade of cheese. Much advantage in 
the quality of the mUk, and consequently that of 
the cheese, is gained from the possession of rich 
pasturages for the stock, These pasturages 
should be devoid of flowers, particularly garlic, 
whilst the dairy must be constructed with the 
object of providing perfect ventilation, the 
maintenance of an even temperature, and the 
exclusion of every possible means of conveying 
a taint to the milk. 

A great deal depends upon the first part of 
the process of manufacture in the dairy-^-that 
of the coagulation of the milk. Curd is pro- 
duced in accordance with the variety of the 
cheese required. In the case of soft cheese th^ 
formation of the curd is prolonged, sometimes 
for a considerable time, whilst in the production 
of pressed cheese only a short time ela-pses. 
The time occupied in coagulation is determined 
by the quality of the milk, the condition when 
the rennet is added, temperature, and the 
strength and quantitjr of the rennet used. Ae- 



MILK 75 

cording to theoretical calculation the time of 
coagulation is in inverse ratio to the quantity 
of rennet employed; yet, in practice, this is not 
entirely borne out, although its truth is more or 
less obvious. 

Among the popular kinds of soft cheese made 
in France, Brie has probably the largest num- 
ber of patrons in this country. In France con- 
sumers of Brie prefer it in an advanced stage 
of ripeness, in consequence of which the blue 
cheese is taken to an underground cave, where 
it becomes so soft and creamy that it runs, upon 
the breaking of the crust, and in this condition 
fetches considerably more than 'the twenty-five 
cents per pound paid for it, on the average, in 
Paris. The Brie is a large, flat, round cheese, a 
little less than an inch in thickness, and aver- 
aging ten inches in diameter. Brie is never 
considered thoroughly ripe until the white, solid 
curd has become yellow and creamy. The 
ripening process commences from the«outside. 

Oamembert is another of the French cheeses 
wMoli haye become popular in all dvilized coTtn- 
tries. It is chiefly made in the county of Cal- 
vados. Oamembert was invented during the 
revolution of 1791, by the ancestress of a late 
manufacturer of Calvados. 

Gorgonzola is an Italian product, and it is 
made from the ordinary cow's milk in northern 



76 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



Italy, particularly Lombardy. The milk, as a 
rule, is produced by small owners of cows who 
manufacture the cheese, and do riot perfect or 
ripen it, but dispose of it to merchants who 
finish the process in caves of their own. 

Gdrgonzola is produced from two curds, or, 
more properly speaking, from two lots of curd 
made at different times. The large quantity of 
inferior Gorgonzola found upon the market is 
due to the quality of the rennet used in Italy, it 
being scarcely anything but the actual macer- 
ated stomach of the calf. The curd, when fit for 
cutting or breaking, is gently manipulated with 
a paumarilo. 

The mould-running process is an important 
one in connection with the finest varieties of 
cheese. In the part of France where Roque- 
fort cheese is made from the ewe's milk, much 
pains is taken to get this properly moulded. A 
kind of bread is prepared, which is crumbled, 
and upon which mould is induced to grow, as it 
will readily do when exposed to a rather warm, 
humid atmosphere. These mouldy crumbs are 
mixed with the curd, and in that way amalga- 
mate with the cheese. There is quite a system 
of turning the Gorgonzola cheese in the mould, 
and, of changing the cloth upon it. The cheese 
is sold in its green condition in Lombardy, and 
when taken out of the mould is ready for the 



MILK 77 

Balting-room, where it stays until covered with a 
fine growth of white fungus, which shows that 
it is ready for the salting. This process con- 
tinues daily until it has been done upwards of a 
dozen times. 

The texture of the cheese is then examined. ^ 
If f oxmd too close, there is a probability that the 
blue mould will not grow freely. The cheese is 
then pierced with metal skewers to admit the 
air, particularly the oxygen, which is much 
needed by the fungi. 

The best Gorgonzola is seldom seen in this 
country. The process of ripening it is con- 
ducted in caves specially designed for the pur- 
pose. In these caves the cheese is placed upon 
shelves and covered with rye-straw. The tem- 
perature is also regulated. The slower process 
of ripening produces the finest cheese. The 
ripening process takes about five months, dur- 
ing which the crust becomes covered with dif- 
ferent varieties of fungi. 

The leading blue-moulded cheese of England 
is the Stilton. The process of its manufacture 
varies little from that of Gorgonzola in Italy, or 
Roquefort in France. The Wensleydale and 
Cotherstone are perfect varieties of Stilton, and 
can scarcely be equalled for mildness and mel- 
lowness by the choicest Gorgonzola. Leicester- 
shire, owing to its pasture, cattle and climate, is 



78 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

supposed to be the most favored spot for tlie 
production of fine Stilton. Stilton cheese was 
formerly a most expensive article, but of late 
years so many have entered into the man- 
ufacture of it that the price has been much 
reduced, 

Parmesan cheese is another expensive variety 
of the article, manufactured extensively iii 
Emilia and Parma. There are also the Bon- 
don,. Gervais, Coulommiers, Pont I'Eveque, 
Neufchatel, and Port du Salut hailing from 
France. 

Port du Salut cheese is not unlike a variety 
known as Caerphilly. In form it is circular, 
flat, being an inch in thickness, and it is par- 
tially pressed. The pd,te of the cheese is de- 
liciously mellow, yet firm and tasty, the flavor 
being somewhat dependent upon the number of 
holes in the cheese. Port du Salut is a grow- 
ing favorite with connoisseurs both in this 
country and abroad. 

Pont I'Eveque cheese is a product of one of 
the leading dairy departments of France. Its 
name is derived from a village in the vicinity of 
Havre, and it is much in demand at Trouville, 
and Deauville, the famous French watering 
places. The process of manufacturing Pont 
I'Eveque is an elaborate one. 

Gervais cheese is another delectaUe morsel 



MILK 79 

for the epicurean. Grervais is a mixture of 
cream and milk; V3 of the former to Va of 
the latter. Coagulation is often delayed for 
twenty-four hours. After the whey has been 
removed by the curd, the firm curd is laid in a 
cloth, which is placed in a slatted wooden 
frame, from six to nine inches in depth. A 
heavy wooden block is then placed upon it. 

Bondon cheese is produced chiefly in the 
rural districts around Eouen. It is made en- 
tirely from milk, about seven or eight cheeses 
being made from a gallon of milk. 

Coulommiers cheese is made in the Brie dis- 
trict. It is one of the favorites of the fre- 
quenters of Parisian cafes. 

In addition to the Stilton cheese, for which 
English makers are fanled, there are many 
other varieties of cheese manufactured in Eng- 
land. The Cheddar cheese is a product of 
Somersetshire; Cheshire cheese bespeaks its 
origin. It is a rich, cream-colored variety. 
Leicester cheese is of a reddish color with a 
slightly bitter taste, added to a very rich and 
mellow flavor. Derby cheese is white, Wilton is 
pink, and Gloucester of the same hue. Ched- 
dar cheese is another red-hued cheese, the result 
of the use of coloring, undoubtedly. 

Next to Cheddar come the two Dutch varie- 
ties, Edam and Gouda, the former round, the 



20 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

l&tter flat, and neither of which, in the way of 
quality, has any room for boasting. , 

. The Swiss cheese is made from goat's milk; 
and for this there is always a large market, both 
in Europe and America. 

Limburger is a cheese which is approached 
with fear and trembling by people unac- 
quainted with it. It is claimed that this almost 
putrid German product is quite healthy, and 
that the prejudice against it is based upon ig- 
norance. 

The manufacture of che<^se in the United 
States is an important industry. Not alone is 
there an excellent domestic product made in 
most States, which is palpably American, but 
there are few varieties of foreign cheese which 
are not produced in American factories to meet 
the demand of price. Gruyere is imitated in 
Wisconsin, and Schweitzerkase is made in many 
States. Attempts to imitate the French Eoque- 
fort and English Stilton have not, been very 
successful, although a certain factory in Maine 
did at one time produce a fine grade of Stil^ 
ton. 

As Parmesan takes three years in the curing, 
an attempt to make it here is not to be expected. 
Limburger made in this country is considerably 
inferior to that brought from the Netherlands. 
Schabdeiger is also imitated here, as well as im- 



imx. 81 

ported. Brie and D 'Isigiiy are imitated in New 
York and Pennsylvania. Daiaty little Camem- 
berts, soft and white, with blue pencilling, and 
sometimes reddish on the outside, are made 
here also. The much plainer form of curd 
fresh-made, and sold cheaply in nearly all our 
markets in little cylinders wrapped in tinfoil, 
under the name of Neufchatel, has been made in 
large and increasing quantities for fifteen years 
or more in New York and Pennsylvania. The 
same localities place in the market a soft, fresh 
curd, very much, enriched, which is called 
cream cheese. This does not exhaust the list 
of varieties of cheese found in all good markets 
in this country. The standard American Fac- 
tory, or Cheddar, cheese also appears in many 
more or les^ disguised fancy forms. The 
Canadian and American " Club-house " cheese, 
" Meadow Sweet," " Saratoga," and " Deli- 
catesse," sold in one- and two-pound jars, and 
in smaller packages, neatly prepared, are 
merely good selections of common factory- 
make, taken at a stage of ripeness, mild or 
strong, to suit the taste, then worked over, 
pressed into suitable packages, and sufficiently 
enriched to make a uniform smoothness. 
Flavor is increased in some instances by adding 
a little .wine or brandy. " Cheese Food "is 
q,lao standard cheese, into which has been in- 



82 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

corporated the natural whey, reduced to a 
syrup. This gives a isweet taste to the cheese, 
which some, like, and restores the original equi- 
librium of the original milk components. All 
of these rich and fancy forms of cheese are 
recognized as relishes, to be used in small quan- 
tity, rather than as a substitute for food. If 
buyers would take a little trouble to properly 
care for the cheese they purchase, there would 
be less loss, it would be more enjoyable, and 
housekeepers would be more inclined to invest 
in such articles. A stone jar with a tight-fitting 
cover is a fitting receptacle. This should be 
placed in a storeroom or dry cellar where the 
temperature is maintained at between fifty and 
sixty degrees. This jar should be thoroughly 
cleansed and well aired before a new lot of 
cheese is put in. 

Epicures advise cutting cheese like the Stilton 
and " Young America " across one end of the 
cylinder, and keeping them with the cut sur- 
face downward in a soup-plate filled with old 
ale. An Edam may be similarly cut and pre- 
served. Cheeses, of the shapes last mentioned, 
may be cut directly in two, and then used from 
the cut surfaces, leaving these smooth, so they 
will fit closely together; the air may thus be ex- 
cluded and rapid drying prevented. If cheese 
in large pieces or fragments becomes dry and 



MILK 83 

hard, it may be used for cooking purposes, 
either grated or melted, or for Welsh rare- 
bits. 

Cheese becomes a much more easily digestible 
and desirable article of food when cooked, as it 
can be in a hundred tasty and attractive ways, 
for which we refer the reader to our recipes 
here and in another volume. 

Cheese is considered, from a scientific point of 
view, a most nutritious article of food, al- 
though, owing to the absence of potash salts, it 
is not suitable for a continuous diet. In com- 
parison with meat, cheese is extremely eco- 
nomical from a pound-to-pound point of 
view. 

In the selected parts of meat, i. e., muscular 
fibre without bone, there is, in beef, an average 
of 72% per cent, of water ; in mutton, 73% ; in 
veal, 741/2 ; in pork, 693^, and in fowl 733^. In 
Cheshire cheese, and other popmar wrands, 
there is but 3OV3 per cent, of watei-. We, 
therefore, have in every pound of cneese more 
than twice the amount of solid foo^ tiaat is 
found in a pound of the best meat, or compar- 
ing with the average of the entire carcass, in- 
clijsive of bone, tendons, and other waste, 
cheese will show an advantage of three to 
one. 
, Gaseine, which is the fundamental' basis of 



84 



THE CCXDKING SCHOOL 



cheese, contains, according to Mulder's an- 
alysis : 



CABEINX 

Carbon . . , " 53.83 

Hydrogen 7.15 

Nitrogen 15.65 

>guYpC[ '• • ^'-^^ 



Analyses of albumen, gelatine, and fibrin by 
the same authority are as follows : 





Albumen 


Gelatine 


Fibrin 


Carbon . . . . 


53.5 


50.40 


52.7 


Hydrogen .... 


7.0 


6.64 


6.9 


Nitrogen 


15.5 


18.34 


15.4 


Oxygen 

Sulphur 


22.0 


24.62 


23.5 


1.6 


24.62 


1.2 


Phosphorus 


0.4 


24.62 


0.3 



From these tables we may safely assume that 
from the view of nitrogenous, or flesh-forming, 
and carbonaceous, or heat-giving, constituents, 
ihe chief materials of meat and cheese are fairly 
equal. 

One of the most remarkable facts about the 
manufacture of cheese is the way in which the 
coagulation is produced. As stated in an ear- 
lier part of the article, it is achieved by means 
of the rennet. This rennet is a part of the 
stomach of ' the calf, the mucous membrane, 



MILK 85 

usually salted and dried for the purpose, in the 
milk, and warmed for a few hours previous to 
using. 

The most eminent authorities assume that the 
rennet acts primarily as a ferment, and con- 
verts the sugar of milk into lactic acid, which 
latter coagulates the caseine. A weak infusion 
made from a small piece of rennet will coagu- 
late three thousand times its own quantity of 
milk. There is a coagulation which takes place 
in the living stomach when milk is taken as 
food, which appears to be due to the lactic acid 
of the gastric juice. Hence the plausibility of 
the foregoing theory. 

LESSON EECIPES FOR CHEESE 
CHEESE DISHES 

No. 1. Prepare toast, dip in hot, salted water, 
grate enough dry cheese to cover the slices of 
toast, set in oven to melt, and put the slices to- 
gether as sandwiches. 

No. 2. ^ pound cheese grated or thinly sliced ; 
1 tablesipoonful butter ; 1 cupful milk ; sprinkle 
salt. . 

Stir all together till smooth, over a gentle 
fire or in a double boiler, and spread over toast. 

No. 3. i pound cheese grated or thinly sliced ; 
1 tablespoonf ul butter / 3 egg-yolks ; ^teaspoon- 
f ul mustard ; sprinkling of cayenne pepper. 



36 THE C OOKING SCHOOL 

Stir to a smooth paste, spread on toast, and 
set in hot oven for four minutes. The whites of 
the eggs may be beaten stiff,, add a sprinkle of 
salt, drop lightly on the toast, brown in the oven. 

No. 4. 1 egg; 1 tablespoonful grated cheese; 
3^ teaspoonful butter or 1 tablespoonful milk; 
sprinkle salt and pepper. 

Beat the egg, add the other ingredients, cook 
in a double-boiler till smooth and thickened, 
pour it on moistened toast. It may also be 
steamed five minutes in little cups, or baked 
very slowly for ten minutes. 

No. 5. Slices of bread ; 3 eggs ; II/2 cups milk ; 
1 teaspoonful salt ; 1 cup gr9,ted cheese. 

Beat the eggs slightly, add the milk and salt. 
Soak the bread in the milk and egg till soft, but 
not broken. Lay the pieces in a pan, cover with 
cheese, bake or steam. 

No. 6. 14 cupful grated cheese ; 1 cup grated 
bread crumbs; I'egg; % cupful milk; sprinkle 
salt ; sprinkle cayenne pepper. 

Butter a baking-dish, put in the crumbs and 
cheese in layers, or mix together; keep some 
crumbs for the top. Beat the egg slightly, add 
the milk, salt, and pepper; pour on to the 
crumbs, add the top layer of crumbs ; bake until 
brown. 

No. 7. 1 cupful rice ; 4 cupfuls water; 1 tear 
spoonful salt ; 2 cupfuls grated cheese. 



MDLK 87 

Pick over and wash the rice. Steam it in a 
double boiler, in the salt and water, until soft. 
Butter a baking dish, put in the rice and cheese 
in layers, pour on 1 cup white sauce ; sprinkle 
over it buttered cracker crumbs, brown in the 
oven. Macaroni may be used in the same way. 



LESSON VI 

EGGS 

In speaking of eggs, reference is made, of 
course, to those of tlie hen ; those of the turkey, 
goose, and duck are more rarely used. 

The weight of an egg varies considerably ac- 
cording to the breed of the fowl, and often in 
the same breed. In general the shell repre- 
sents about 12 per cent, of the total weight, the 
white, 58 per cent., and the yolk, 30 per cent. 

When we consider that the chicken is hatched 
from the egg, and that it has blood, muscles, 
nervous system, bones, etc., all analogous to 
ours ; and that all of these are formed from no 
extraneous source, we must be convinced of its 
great nutritive properties, and of its value as 
an article of food. All of this is verified by 
chemical analysis, which tells us that an egg is 
composed as follows : 





Water 


Albumen 


Pat 


Mineral 
Matter 


Total 


White of Egg 
Yolk of Egg 


86 
51 


13 
16 


32 


1 
1 

1 


100 
100 



EGGS 89 

The white of egg contains most water, and no 
fat; the yolk a very large percentage of fat. 
The white of egg is merely a solution of albu- 
men in water. The yolk is the greait nourishing 
l^art, and contains, besides, a number of salts, 
such as : phosphates, potash, lime, etc. 

The yolk mixes readily with bouillon, milk, 
boffee, and imparts to all of these an agreeable 
flavor. A given weight of egg, say 10 ouiices, 
contains as much nourishment as 35 ounces of 
milk; and is also equal to more than 5 ounces 
of moderately fat meat. 

Eggs are more easily digested in the raw, than 
in the cooked state. They are also easily di- 
gested as omelets, or when scrambled. Eggs 
possess the quality of producing more quickly 
a sense of satiety than any other food. This 
property has never been satisfactorily ex- 
plained. 

LESSON EECIPES FOE EGGS 
EGGS COOKED IN WATBB 

1. Put 1 pint boiling water in a small sauce- 
pan, let it boil a moment, put an egg into it, and 
remove the pan from the fire. Let it stand, 
covered, for ten minutes. The egg will then be 
soft and creamy. This process cooks the albu- 
men of the egg at a temperature of about ISO', 
and makes it more digestible than if boiled. 



90 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

• In order to cook several eggs, a little experi- 
menting must be done. Use a large saucepan 
and a large amount of boiling water, and try the 
eggs to find if they cook properly in ten minutes. 
If they are too soft at the end of the time, use 
more water, or let them cook fifteen minutes. 
If they become too hard in ten minutes use less 
water next time, or cook them for seven 
minutes. 

2. When hard eggs are desired, cook as in the 
recipe above, but for thirty or forty minutes in,- 
stead of ten minutes, and it will be best to stand 
the saucepan on the back of the stove that the 
water may not become too cool. 

DROPPED EGGS 

3. Break eggs, one at a time, into a cup. Put 
a quart of boiling water and 1 teaspoonful salt 
into a saucepan. Let it boil, then move it back 
on the stove so that it will just cease to bubble. 
Drop in the eggs, one at a time, and cook until 
the white is firm. If several eggs are to be 
cooked at a time, use a large quantity of boiling 
water and salt. Serve them on toast, with a 
sprinkle of salt on each egg. 

SCBAMBLED EGGS 

1 egg; 1 tablespoonful butter; % teaspoonful 
salt; sprinkle pepper; % cupful milk. 



^ .' EGGS « 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Mix the 
egg, salt, and pepper, and beat together. Pour 
the hot milk into the egg, stirring well, add the 
butter, and stir thoroughly in a double boiler 
until it thickens. Serve hot on steamed rice, or 
on toast. 

POACHED EGGS 

This method .is exactly like the scrambled 
eggs, with the omission of the milk. 

FEIBD EGGS 

• Eggs when fried are not so digestible as 
when cooked in other ways, because the heat of 
the fat makes the albumen leathery. Dropped 
eggs should be used instead of fried. 

BAKED EGGS 

1. Break eggs, being careful to keep the yolks 
whole, into a buttered baking-dish. Put a 
sprinkle of salt on each egg, and bake in a 
moderate oven until the white is firm, or from 
ten to fifteen minutes. Add a sprinkle of butter 
to each egg, and serve at once. 

2, Separate the yolks and whites. Beat the 
whites until stiff, with 1 sprinkle salt to each 
white. Put into a buttered dish, lay in the yolks 
here and there, and bake until the white is a 
golden-brown. 



« THE COOKING SCHOOL 

PLAIN OMELET 

2 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls milk or water ; i tea^ 
spoonful salt. 

Beat the eggs, add the other ingredients, stir 
well, and pour into an omelet pan, well buttered 
with 1 teaspoonful butter. Set the pan back on 
the stove, where the omelet will cook slowly. 
Lift occasionally with a broad knife to see if the 
albumen is hardening. When it is firm on the 
bottom, turn the omelet over, and cook it two or 
three minutes, until the other side is also firm. 
Slip it on a hot plate and double it over in the 
centre. Many persons like a sjJeck of pepper 
added to the seasoning. 

FOAMY OMELET 

Using the ingredients in the recipe above, 
separate the eggs. Mix the yolks with the salt 
and pepper and beat, and stir in the milk. Beat 
the whites until stiff, and fold them lightly into 
the liquid. Melt 1 teaspoonful butter in an 
omelet pan, and heat it. As soon as it bubbles, 
pour in the mixture, set the pan on the back of 
the stove, and when the albumen is hardened so 
that the omelet is firm underneath, set the pan 
in the oven on the grate for two or three 
minutes to dry the top. Slip it on a hot plate 
and double it over in the centre. 



EGGS 93 

MEAT OMELET 

Mix 1 tablespoonful of. ham, chopped fine, or 
of, any meat, with either the plain or foamy 
omelet, and cook as directed. A little chopped 
parsley may be added, if desired. When the 
omelet is cooked, chopped meat may be spread 
over half the top, and it may then be folded 
double. Sc^.lded oysters, whole or chopped, or 
stewed tomatoes may be used, instead of the 
meat. 

BAKED MEAT OMELET 

Prepare the foamy omelet, and add to it 
chopped meat, put it into a buttered pudding- 
dish, set it into a pan of boiling water, and bake 
until firm, 

FLOATING ISLAND 

1 pint milk; 3 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; 
14 teaspoonful salt ; % teaspoonf ul spice, or l/^ 
teaspoonful flavoring. 

Scald the milk. Separate the eggs. Add the 
salt and sugar to the yolks, and beat. Beat the 
whites until very stiff, add 2 teaspoonfuls sugar 
to them, beat slightly, and drop spoonfuls of 
the stiff whites on top of the scalded milk. 
Let them cook two or three minutes until 
firm, lift out on- a plate, and pour the scalded 
milk on the beaten yolks. Put this mixture into 
the double boiler, and stir until it thickens. 
7 



THE CCXJKING SCHOOL 



Pour it into a china or glass dish. When nearly 
cool, stir in the flavoring, put the whites on the 
top, and serve cold, as a pudding. It is a good 
idea to pour this custard, while it is hot, over 
thin slices of bread or cake. A pretty way to 
serve it is to put specks of jelly on the top of the 
whites. 

To make cocoanut or chocolate custard, cook 
2 tablespoonfuls cocoanut, or 1 tablespoonful 
melted chocolate in the scalded milk. 

BICED EGGS 

Cook 3 eggs in hot water one-half hour. Sep- 
arate the yolks from the whites and chop the 
whites. Make a white sauce by melting 1 table- 
spoonful butter, adding 1 tablespoonful flour, 
and 1 cupful milk, gradually. Season with y^. 
teaspoonful salt, and 1 sprinkle pepper ; stir in 
the whites and pour over slices of toast. Rub 
the yolks through a strainer over the whole. 



LESSON vn 

FOODS OF VEGETABLE ORIGIN 

While the foods of animal origin, with, the 
exception of milk, consist essentially, and es- 
pecially in the simple foods, of albumen and fat ; 
those of vegetable origin are composed of albu- 
men and the hydrates of carbon, or starch and 
sugar. There are some fruits and grains also 
which are rich in fats, as the olive, for example. 

There is another essential difference between 
the two classes of foods, viz. : those of animal 
origin are directly accessible by the digestive 
juices, while those not of animal origin have nu- 
tritive parts enclosed in cellulose envelopes. In 
cooking, these envelopes are broken and -the 
contents exposed to the action of the saliva in 
the course of mastication. 

We will observe the vegetable foods in this 
order : 

1. The cereals ; flours, and bread. 

2. The leguminous grains ; peas and beans. 

3. The roots and tubercles ; potatoes, carrots, 
and turnips. 

4. Herbs and salads. 

5. Fruits. 

fS 



96 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



AND BEEAD 

The cereals upon wMcJi we are most depend- 
ent are wheat and rice. To those may be added 
rye, barley, and corn. These occupy the most 
important place in the group of vegetable foods, 
and their importance in the nourishment of man 
can hatdly be over-estimated. It hks been very 
justly said that the civilization of man began 
with the cultivation of grain; for that caused 
man to give up his nomadic life, and to take up 
a fixed abode. 

The nutritive value of cereals is very great. 
This is not at all surprising if we reflect that in 
eating grain we are in reality eating that 
which in the vegetable kingdom bears a true re- 
lation to the egg of the animal kingdom. The 
grain of a cereal is its seed ; and this is an organ 
which contains in itself all that goes to make up 
a new plant. 

Wheat flour may serve as a type of all the 
grains. It is used almost exclusively in 
America in the making of bread, and in many 
ways in the art of cooking. It contains, besides 
a small quantity of fat and a few salts, water, 
gluten, a special sort of albumen, and starch as 
a carbo-hydrate. Nothing is easier than to sep- 
arate these two materials ; mix a little flour and 
water to thickness of a paste, after it has stood 



FOODS OF VEGETABLE ORIGIN 97 

- „ \ , . _■■„. , 

a little white, mould it in the hands under a 
stream of running water, collect the water as it 
runs off, and after it has stood for a while a 
deposit of starch will be found in the bottom of 
the vessel in which it rests; the elastic, soft, 
grayish mass left in the hand is the gluten. 
Wheat. flour is composed of from 10 to 12 per 
cent, of gluten, 72 to 75 per cent, of fat, and 
some salts, principally phosphates, 

BEBAD 

If the statistical records are reliable, man 
finds in bread nearly half, and among the less 
wealthy part of the population about two-thirda, 
of the nourishing material which he needs. The 
process of bread-making is not to be described 
here in detail; suffice it tofsaiy that it oonsists in 
making a raised mass by the fermentation of a 
small quantity of sugar (which accompanies the 
starch) into alcohol and carbonic-acid gas. It 
is this latter which causes th^ mass to " rise," 
When this is cooked the outer covering, undej? 
the immediate action of the heat, is hardened 
into crust. The inner portion remains tender 
and soft. 

Wheat bread is composed of : 

Water, 34 to 35 per cent.; albumen (gluten), 
7 per cent.; starchy matter, 55 per cent.; fat, 
8.10 per cent. ; salt, 1 per cent. 



98 THE COOKI NG SQIOOL 

BOOTS AND TUBERCLES 

These foods, which comprise potatoes, car- 
rots, and turnips, are less rich in nourishing 
matter than are the other vegetables, since they 
contain from 75 to 90 per cent, of water. They 
are also poorer in albumen and starchy matter. 

The potato occupies a prominent place among 
our foods. A few of the many good reasons for 
this may be noted. It is an abundant crop, and 
contains twice as much albumen, and nearly 
four times as much starch, as is yielded by 
nearly four times as much land sown in cereals. 
The potato also keeps very well through the 
year. However, towards the end of the winter 
the starch in the potato changes into sugar, and 
imparts to an old potato a sweetish taste. 
When the potato begins to sprout, the starch 
also undergoes a change into sugar. Hence the 
necessity of keeping potatoes not only in the 
dark to prevent them from sprouting, but also 
in a temperature neither too hot nor too cool. 
The potato is also capable of being served in so 
many palatable forms, and by so many easy 
processes, that it is very popular with chefs. 

When a potato is boiled in water, the starchy 
matter swells up on absorbing water, and espe- 
cially the cellular sacs themselves; consequently, 
while it is rich in starch it becomes on boiling 



FOODS OF VEGETABLE ORIGIN 99 

poor in water, dry and mealy. A potato whicli 
is poor in starcli swells little in water, and is 
soft and watery after boiling. New potatoes, 
being imperfectly mature, are very likely to be 
of this nature; 

Carrots and turnips are of less value as food 
than are potatoes. 

OTHBE VEGETABLES, HERBS, AND SALADS 

These are mainly more aqueous than the 
other vegetables just noted. Water is present 
in them to from 90 to 95 per cent., and the nutri- 
tive matter is not more than from 5 to 8 per 
cent. They are, however, richer in salts or 
mineral matter. 

rRUITS 

These are quite rich in water, but rather less 
so than the vegetables. The albumen in them is 
comparatively insignificant; but they contain 
important quantities of starch and sugar, as 
well as acids, and odorous substances which are 
very agreeable ai^d useful in cooking. The 
fruits which are richest in sugar are cherries, 
and especially the grape. Dried fruits are 
naturally richer than fresh fruits, but they are 
not eaten raw; and on cooking they regain the 
water which they lost in drying. Cooked fruits 
are more easily digested than are raw fruits. 



JOO THE COOKING SCHOOL 

By reason of the quantity of water which cooked 
fruits introduce into the system, they lessen the 
necessity for drinks, and also the desire for al- 
coholic drinks. Statistics prove that the con- 
sumption of alcoholic drinks is less in propor- 
tion as the eating of fruits is great. 

Dried fruits such as almonds, and nuts gener- 
ally, are remarkable for their richness in albu- 
men and fat, and for the very small proportion 
of starch and sugar. 

LEGUMINOUS PLANTS 

The leguminous plants, represented by. beans 
and peas, constitute by far the richest food 
which the vegetable kingdom affords. These 
contain as much, and even more, albumen than 
the richest animal food, meat, and besides yield 
a very considerable supply of starchy material. 
Few foods are as rich. Little peas, or petits 
pois, which are picked before they are ripe, con- 
tain a high percentage of water, and are very 
weak, in consequence, in albuminous nourish- 
ment. 

CONDIMENTS AND HOES d'cEUVEES. 

Condiments are ingredients which are added 
to foods to impart a flavor, to stimulate the ap- 
petite, and to aid digestion. 

They are either simple or compound. Sin^ 



FOODS OF V EGETABLE ORIGIN I0» 

pie condiments are gifts of nature; compound 
condiments are products of tlie art of cookery. 

Simple condiments are divided into seven 
classes : salt, acid, sharp, bitter, aromatic, 
sweet, and fat condiments. 

Salt. — This is sea-salt, the chloride of sodium 
of the chemist ; nitre, or saltpetre. The latter is 
never used by cooks, but only in the preserva- 
tion of meats. Sea-salt enters into the cooking 
and the seasoning of food in nearly all of the 
culinary preparations. It is beyond question 
the best and the most healthy of the seasonings. 
Its use is to moderately excite the mucus mem- 
brane of the mouth, to increase the flow of sa- 
liva, and to increase the appetite. There are 
several combinations and preparations of it, 
such as celery-salt, etc. 

Acids. — ^Vinegar, lemon, etc., form the acid 
condiments. They, should be taken only in 
moderate quantities, and then much diluted. 
They excite the salivary glands, quench the 
thirst, and help to render the more indigestible 
food, such as the mucilaginous kinds, more 
easily assimilated. 

Sharp or Acrid. — This class includes mem- 
bers of the onion and garlic families, mustard, 
cress, radish, horseradish, peppers, Tabasco, 
capers, and nasturtium. 

Aromatic. — Parsley, caraway, thyme, rose- 



I^ THE COOKING SC HOOL 

mary, sage, sununer savory belong to tMs 
group. 

Sharply Aromatic. — This division includes 
cabbage, cauliflower, ginger, black pepper, cay- 
enne pepper, and pimento. 

Sweet. — Sugar, gums, mucilages, and starches 
belong under this head. 

Fat. — Olive oil, almond oil, oil of nuts, fats, 
and butter. 

The compound condiments, outside of the 
sauces, are usually classed with the hors 
d'ceuvres. These are relishes which are served 
at the commencement of a meal, or after the 
soup, before the first service, to whet the appe- 
tites of the diners. They are of infinite variety 
and include vegetables, fish, etc. They are 
butter, radishes, olives, slices of sausage or bo- 
logna, sardines, anchovies, herring (either 
smoked or salted), artichokes, cucumber with 
salad, and, above all, when the season permits, 
oysters. 



LESSON VIII 

FOOD ESTIMATES 

In order to facilitate comparison of the 
values as food of the several articles of diet of 
both animal and vegetable origin, a table is 
here presented. 





Albumen 


Fat 


Starcb and 
Sugar 


Gruyfere Cheese 


30!« 


30^ 


_ 


Beans 






2H 


— 


53^ 


Peas 








2H 


— 


52% 


Lean Beef 








2n 


H 


— 


Yolk of Egg 








\H 


32^ 


— 


Total Egg 








12.5% 


12^: 


— 


Rice 








6% 




m 


Bread . 








7% 


_ 


55% 


Cow's Milk 








3.5^ 


H 


■5.7% 


Potatoes . 








2% 




21% 


Carrots . 






. 


1% 


— 


9% 


Apples . 






• 


.H 


— 


m 



Cheese occupies the first place in the list for 
richness in albumen. After it in order come 
beans and peas. The richness of eggs in albu- 
men and fat is remarkably high. Potatoes, 
carrots, and apples, which may be regarded as 
types of the other roots, tubercles, and fruits, 
are very poor in the respective simple foods. 

{03 



104 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

This table might be elaborated, and very much 
lengthened; but tables are always considered 
rather dry methods of presenting facts. A suf- 
ficient number of representative foods is here 
given to show the values of the several food 
articles. 

■ The process of .cooking has in view the reach- 
ing of two distinct ends, and these are often, at- 
tained by a single process. These are: to 
modify the chemical and physical state of the 
articles of food in order to make them more di- 
gestible ; and, secondly, to impart to the food a 
more agreeable appearance, taste, and odor, by 
processes of roasting, boiling, and the addition 
of sauces, condiments, etc. For instance, a raHw 
potato is almost indigestible; but when it is 
boiled, the grains of which it is composed are 
rendered lighter, and consequently more easily 
dissolved. The woody fibre in which these 
grains of starchy matter are enclosed is 
broken down, and thei contents are more easily 
reached by the saliva and the digestive juices. 

It is often stated that only the first of these 
ends is of prime importance ; and that a nor- 
mally healthy person requires no stimulus to 
the appetite created by youth, ex6rcise, and the 
bodily losses. Yet we all know that one may go 
to a table with a keien appetite and a relish for 
food, and partake of badly cooked and badly 



FOOD ESTIMATES J05 

served food, rise from the table with a feeling of 
satiety, and still not have eaten in proportion to 
the real needs of the body. How often have we 
anticipated a meal with relish, and yet been able 
to eat of it, as the French say, with only the ends 
of our teeth. And again, how often have we ap- 
proached a meal with no feeling of appetite, 
only to find ourselves enticed to hearty eating 
by the appetizing dishes. We of course know 
the teaching that we should not eat when we do 
not crave food, and while this, in a sense, is 
nature's warning to abstain, yet we know of 
many cases where the lack of desire arises from 
no impairment of the bodily functions, but from 
many other causes. How many housekeepers 
tire of their own cooking, and ' ' would give any- 
thing for some one's else cooking, even though 
it be much inferior ' ' ! The lack of appetite is 
also in many cases a warning from nature that 
too much of one sort of food is being taken, and 
that the bodily needs in other directions are 
being ignored. Then it is that- savory dishes 
and enticing cooking play their true part in the 
household economy. To all of these may be 
added the effects of climate, age, and occupa- 
tion ; to say nothing of the lack of exercise, the 
sedentary habits, and the jaded appetite of 
those in poor health. Here is a field for the 
active and steady influence of all of tLi intelli- 



106 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

gence, skill, neatness, and ingenuity that a 
housekeeper can exert. 

THE NORMAL DIET 

There are three possible diets which present 
their claims for consideration as being normal : 
the animal, the vegetable, and the mixed. 

The absolutely animal diet comprises only 
meat in its several forms, milk, and eggs. It 
is, of course, in practice never carried out in 
that extreme, for bread is always included in it. 
Even among savages the animal diet has al- 
ways some product of the earth added to the 
purely animal constituents. 

The absolutely vegetable diet comprises only 
the products of the earth to the exclusion of all 
food of animal origin. But in practice this diet 
includes also milk and eggs. This form of diet 
has many adherents among religious bodies, 
notably the Brahmins of India. There is a 
group of vegetarians in Manchester, England, 
who have adopted as their formula: V. E. M. 
Vegetables, eggs, milk. 

By a mixed diet is meant one of meat, milk, 
eggs, bread, vegetables, and fruits. 

VEGETAKIANISM 

Among the arguments in favor of this form 
of diet, we meet first the sentimental argu- 



FOOD ESTIMATES W 



ment against the killing of animals, and that 
against eating dead things. A more serious, 
argument is that based upon the anatomical: 
structure of man, his late teething, the length 
of the digestive tract, etc., to show that he 
is not, by nature, a carnivorous animal. It 
is shown, also, that the diet of man in his 
earlier development was vegetable. Whole 
races of people in ancient times confined them- 
selves to this form. Even miners in Chili, 
porters in Smyrna, and numerous others confine 
themselves to fruits and vegetables. Great 
personages in all ages of the world have prac- 
tised it: Pythagoras, Newton, Voltaire, Eous- 
seau, and Queen Elizabeth of England. 

From a hygienic point of view, a vegetable 
diet is not so heating as is either a mixed or an 
animal diet. Vegetables are naturally more 
bulky than are meats, and take up in processes 
of cooking a very large quantity of water. This 
greater bulk is a safeguard against over-eat- 
ing. They also carry with them a sufficient 
quantity of the alkalines or salts. There is also 
the very important element of lessened cost in 
the case of vegetables over meat. It is a fact of 
scientific importance that much eating of fruits 
tends to prevent alcoholism. German statis- 
tics prove this fact beyond doubt. We fre- 
quently hear that this or that fruit is to be re- 



K» THE COOKING SCHOOL 

garded as a preventive against indulgence in 
liquor to excess. But the fact is that any fruit, 
especially those carrying an abundance of juice, 
together with the acids and salts of the fruit, 
will produce the result. 

One of the greatest inconveniences of the 
vegetable diet is the great bulk of the food, and 
the large amount of indigestible cellulose which 
it contains. The increased bulk in time causes 
a strain upon the digestive tube as well as upon 
other organs of the body. 

ANIMAL DIET 

This food is very rich in nutritious matter, 
especially albumen and fat. 

These are necessary to those who perform 
hard physical labor, and to those who are ex- 
posed to low temperatures. Whether or not 
the diet is the cause, it is remarkable that those 
who live upon a meat diet are strong in physi- 
cal and moral energy. Among the inconveni- 
ences of such a diet may be mentioned the 
danger of over-eating by reason of the compact- 
ness of the food. There is also the increased 
difficulty of digestion. Meats and cheese are 
heating, and cause a harmful intestinal fermen- 
tation. 



_ FOOD ESTIMATES 109 

THE MIXED DIET 

The mixed diet is that which is most general 
in society. In such a diet meat occupies a 
prominent place. A great deal of attention has 
been given to the use and value of meat by 
reason of its recommendation, in cases of 
ansemia and tuberculosis, by physicians. It 
must not be forgotten that while a certain quan- 
tity of it is valuable in furnishing alimentation, 
there is danger of poor nourishment resulting 
from eating too much of it. One is likely to get 
less nourishment from eating largely of meat 
than from the consumption of moderate, or even 
small quantities. The meat also furnishes such 
a variety of forms that it takes, on that account 
too, a prominent place in our dietary. It is also 
capable of such rapid manipulation that it is 
popular with cooks. In an emergency, what is 
more easily prepared than a couple of boiled 
eggs, or a broiled steak? These are among the 
vtendeacies which cause our mixed diet to be 
overbalanced. The meat, very rich in nutri- 
ment, occupying little space, and lacking the 
salts and alkaline matter, should be corrected by 
the presence of a vegetable, which will provide 
the bulk and alkaline matter. In this way there 
will result a diet which will be sufficiently rich, 
not excessive in volume, yet voluminous enough 



»0 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

to comfortably excite the intestinal contrac- 
tions, and to supply the necessary mineral mat- 
ter. In making up such a diet one must remem- 
ber that albumen is supplied both by meats and 
vegetables. It is a good rule to let the vege- 
table supply at least two-thirds of the albumen, 
and the meat the remainder. When made up ia 
this way the volume of the food is not excessive, 
yet is quite considerable. It is the opinion of 
physicians who have devoted many years to 
this subject, that the health is endangered if the 
meat supplies daily more than half of the neces- 
sary albumen. One of the greatest needs is to 
see that vegetables are well represented upon 
the table, not only by bread, macaroni, and the 
ever-present potato, but by green peas, and 
cooked, or even raw fruits. No doubt there are 
seasons of the year when it is difficult to do 
this, but whenever it is possible it should be 
attended to. 

THE DAILY BATION 

The general idea has been given of the kinds 
of food which should go to make up a meal. 
That forms the diet. The quantity of those 
which should go to make up a daily supply 
forms the ration. This daily supply of food 
goes to satisfy two wants. First, the need of a 
certain number of materials to repair the loss of 



FOOD ESTIMATES HI 

tissues, and, second, the need of a certain supply 
of force, or energy. * 

In the choice of a daily ration, one must know 
the conditions of life of those for whom it is 
prescribed. The social conditions which affect 
it are very complex. There is a very marked 
difference between the condition of life of a la- 
borer, and one of the leisure class, or one of a 
sedentary occupation. In the case of a laborer, 
there is need of a greater supply of food to re- 
pair the waste of the tissues through muscular 
exercise, and also of those foods which will sup- 
ply the necessary force for the daily work. 

The influence of climate demands that the 
supply of fat be increased during cold weather, 
and correspondingly diminished in hot weather. 
Dr. Kane, the Arctic explorer, tells us that an 
Esquimau will drink ten or twelve gallons of 
train-oil a day. Inhabitants of the tropical re- 
gions, on the contrary, are known to live upon 
fruits all the year around. Heat is the great 
essential in cold weather, and that is best sup- 
plied by fats and carbonaceous matter. In 
warm countries man must see to it that the food 
is not too heating. We, too, must see to it in 
our own climate that the proper balance is 
maintained in winter and summer. In winter 
we need a liberal diet of meat, butter,' potatoes, 
sugar, and similar food, while in summer these 



112 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

are to be avoided. Neglect to properly adjust 
the food to the varying seasons is a prolific 
cause of indigestion and other ailments. 

Another essential factor to be observed in 
choosing food is its digestibility. And this is a 
rather difficult point to decide upon, for there 
is no relation between the nutritive qualities of 
a food and its digestibility. Still another dif- 
ficulty in estimating the digestibility of food, is 
the fact that so much more depends upon the 
condition of health of the consumer, than upon 
the food itself. A young person of good health, 
and taking plenty of exercise, is able to digest 
almost any food. But young children whose 
constitutions are forming, sick persons, and 
those of a sedentary life are very much harder 
to cater to. In speaking of sedentary occupa- 
tion, we must discriminate between those who 
do a great deal of brain work and those who do 
not. The diet of students should be very lib- 
eral. Labor of the brain is much more exhaust- 
ing to the system than is muscular labor. 
Therefore it is not right to hastily conclude that 
because a person does not perform much muscu- 
lar labor, he does not require so much or such 
nourishing food as a laborer does. It is said 
that three hours of hard study exhausts the 
system and causes more waste of tissue than a 
whole day of manual labor. The only way in 



FOOD ESTIMATES JJ3 

which this waste of tissue can be supplied is by 
means of proper food. In general, it inay be 
said that the greatest amount of nourishment is 
to be derived from partaking of the sort of food 
that one likes best, and that in the pleasantest 
surroundings possible. 



LESSON IX 
THE AET OF COOKERY 

CooKEEY embraces a large variety of matters 
whicli call for the exercise of intelligent direc- 
tion and control. It is much more than a 
knowledge of the actual cooking of food; one 
must know the seasons of the year when this or 
that article is not only in the market, but at its 
best. Economy, thrift, good digestion, and con- 
sequent good tempei", are also among the sub- 
jects \fhich the housekeeper must control. 
Then, too, a knowledge of the tastes and health 
of the members of the household offers no small 
part of complexity. 

The choice of the menu for the day involves 
the recollection of preceding days, that the 
monotony of a too frequent recuri;ence of a dish 
may be relieved; for uncertainty in the daily 
diet is a potent factor in maintaining the family 
appetite. Much of the pleasure of the table is 
lost when the members of the family can fore- 
tell the menu by the day of the week. The ar- 
rangement of the menu is^ not a haphazard 
operation, and is not secured without much 

Ui 



THE ART OF COOKERY IJ5 

study and planning. There is a necessity of 
utilizing the beaux restes of yesterday, as the 
French call the " left-over," without duplicat- 
iag yesterday's menu. Housekeeping is no 
Bimple art, even in the humblest homes, or in 
fajmlies of the simplest taste. 

iSttCcess is impossible in all, or indeed in any, 
©f tho household departments unless the mis- 
tress rules. No servant can direct»a, household ; 
ifXid no mistress can rule her household unless 
she is well equipped in the knowledge of every 
detail of her servants' work. It takes a culti- 
vated, capable woman to secure the necessary 
economy and comfort of a home. Not one 
servant in ten thousand has, or can acquire, that 
education by which a mistress is able to make 
the best and the most of her resources. 

MENU-MAKING ' 

McBu-making is frequently a point of great 
difficulty to the average housewife. One of the 
best means of securing a properly made menu 
is to \mte down a list of whatever is intended to 
be provided. This need not be an elaborate af- 
fair, but should be clear enough to be thor- 
oughly understood by the cook. 

The three points to be considered are: 

1* What was left over from yesterday?) 

2. What is now in the larder? 



JJ6 THE COOKIKG SCHOOL 



3. What is in season? 

The first point is by no means to be de- 
spised, even by those housekeepers who are 
not restricted by the cost of articles of food. 
The English words, " warmed-overs " and 
' ' scraps, ' ' are not so imposing and euphonious 
as the French rechauffe and beaux restes; but 
none the less ought strict attention to be paid to 
the care an^ the use of the remnants from a 
previous meal. These should be well looked 
over, and a decision made as to what can be 
utilized for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. If the 
cook does not appreciate it, she should be taught 
that nothing is too small to save ; and when she 
sees that these are utilized in the dining-room, 
and are not all left for her, she will have pro- 
gressed far upon the road to economy. If she 
sees that a dainty macedoine, or a delicate Eus- 
sian or Italian salad, may be made from the 
cold, cobked vegetables of the previous day, she 
will learn that what an ordinary cook wastes 
may appear next day in the form of a dainty 
and economical entree. 

In arranging a inenu, care must be taken that 
a flavor is not repeated. If, for instance, to- 
mato sauce is used, it is a mistake to have 
tomatoes again in any form. On formalocca- 
sions, even such little matters as the color of the 
dishes is not to be disregarded. If the fish is 



THE ART OF COOKERY »7 

white, and there are two entrees, one white and 
the other dark, it is well to serve the dark entree 
first. 

The great aim in menu-making is to have 
every dish, however .simple, as perfect as pos- 
sible, rather than to strive after novelty and the 
unintelligent use of extravagant material. 

Another point which must influence a house- 
keeper in the selection of food and in the ar- 
rangement of menus is the knowledge of the 
proper food according to the occupation, age, 
and state of health of the several members of 
the family ; also what food is best suited to the 
climate, or to the season of the year. For young 
and growing persons there must be an abun- 
dance of nourishing food arranged at proper in- 
tervals. Everything of an exciting or stimulat- 
ing nature must be rigidly excluded. For them 
there should be milk, cereals, and fruit, vege- 
tables, a small portior^ of well-cooked meat, few 
eggs ; plain cake, little ice cream — not too cold, 
and simple puddings, and cookies, or wafers. 

The diet for aged persons is like that for 
young and growing persons, except in quantity. 
One of the greatest sources of comfort in old 
age is a simple diet. 

The occupation must be considered in pre- 
paring a diet. For those who are called upon 
to perform much work which tasks the muscular 



118 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



strength, much muscle-making food is needed. 
This is not meat alone, as many suppose, but in- 
cludes peas, beans, and cheese. If the labor is 
performed in the open air, the food need not be 
so easily digestible as is required for those "who 
lead sedentary lives. The outdoor life aids di- 
gestion. 

Those who are confined indoors need food 
which gives much nourishment in small com- 
pass, and that is to be prepared in its most di- 
gestible form. Where there is much brain ex- 
ercise, fat is to be avoided, and the diet is 
to be composed of starchy and heat-producing 
foods. 

Above all, a diet must not be overbalanced. 
A well-prepared menu will not show too much of 
one sort of food. These several sorts of foods 
and their chemical composition have been con- 
sidered in the chg,pters on " Foods and Their 
Values." Apart from any scientific study. ot 
the question, and any regard for the chemical 
side, one's appetite is the best guide for this 
aspect. If too many species of one chemioas 
sort of food are provided, they will not all ow 
eaten. Nature is, after all, a very reliaoiw 
guide in these matters. , 

There is no doubt that the arrangement ol 
menus is a very great tax upon the intelligence 
and ingenuity '>f the thoughtful housekeepeiv 



THE ART OF COOKERY 



«9 



It is just there that the written record of "what 
is provided from day to day comes in. There is 
less danger of repeating if this be done. Eather 
than trust to the memory for what can be pro- 
vided, the table upon " What to Eat " will be 
found most helpful. Frequent and regular con- 
sultation of this will help one in many a di- 
lemma. 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR BREAKFAST? 

FRUITS 



Apples 

Bananas 

Black hemes 

Cherries 

Currants 

Figs 

Gooseberries 

Grapes — Brighton 



Melons- 



Grapes — Concord 

" Delaware 

" Malaga 

" Muscatel 

" Tokay 

" Hothouse Pijieapples 
Grape Fruit Strawberries 

Huckleberries Raspberries 

Lemons Pears 



Oranges 
Peaches 



Cantaloupe 
Water 



Oatmeal 
Hominy 
Cracked Wheat 
Milk Porridge 
Brewis 



CBBBAIS 

Grape Nuts 

Rice 

Indian Meal Mush 

Farina 

Quaker Oats 

Pettyjohns 

BREADS 



Parker House Rolls Whole Wheat 
Raised Apple MufiBns 

Biscuits Graham Geims 



Sally Lunn 
'Egg Biscuits 
Bfot Cross Buns 
English Muflans 
Milk Biscuits 



Waffles 
Buckwheat Cakes 
Griddle Cakes 
Flannel Cakes 
Corn Cakes 



Force 

Cream of Wheat 

Uneeda Biscuit 

Wheatlet 

Meal and Flour 

Porridge 



Corn Bread 
Johnny Cakes 
Toast 

German Toas^ 
Milk Toast 
Cream Toast 
Fried Mtish 
Corn Pone, 

Southern Style 



(20 



THE CCXDKING SCHOOL 



Boiled 
Poached 
Fried 
Scrambled 
Poached in Milk 
Shirred 
Devilled 

Fried with Brown 
Sauce 



Shad, Planked 
" Broiled 
" Fried 
" Croquettes 
" Eoe 



EGGS 

Minced with 

Tongue 
Minced with Ham 
Curry of Eggs 
Omelet Plain 
" English 
" with Tomato 
Sauce 
" Bread 
Baked 

FISH 

Perch 

Fish Cutlets 
Lobster and Crab 

Cutlets 
Salmon Steaks 



Omelet with 

Oysters 
" with Ham 
" " Cheese 
" " Jelly 
Baked Eggs 

Souffl6 
Eggs and Tomatoes 
Egg Croquettes 
Scalloped Eggs 

Pickerel with 

Cream Sauce 
Soft Shell Crabs 
Codfish 

Spanish Mackerel 
Eels 

Finn an-Haddie 
Smoked Salmon 



Fried Smelts with Haddock, Broiled 

Eoman Sauce Halibut Steak 
Trout (Fried) Frogs' Legs 

MEATS 

Bacon and Apples Stewed Liver, 
Sausages Kidneys 

Pork Chops Sweetbreads 

Tripe Liver and Bacon 

Hamburg Steak Fried Chicken 
Steak with Onions Turkey Croquettes 
Chili con Came, Stewed Calf Brains Small Birds 
Mexican Veal Cutlets 



GAME 

Eabbit 
Venison 
Quail and 

Woodcock 



WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOE LUNCHEON? 



LUNCHEON 

Oysters and Clams 

" on Half-Shell 

" Cocktail 

" Fricasseed 

" Creamed 

" Fried 

" Scalloped 

" Stew 

" Steamed 

" Pigs in Blankets 
Ijobster k la Newburg 
Cutlets 

" Scalloped 



DISHES 

Crabs, Devilled 

Crabs en Ooquille, Cuban 

Shrimps 

Sardines 

Anchovy Toast 

Caviare 

Salmon 

Baked Smelts with Oyster 

Force-meat 
Creamed Shad 
Halibut and Cheese 
Curried Veal 
Banana Toast 



THE ART OF COOKERY 



121 



LUNCHEON DISHES 



Egg Timbales 
Larded Sweetbreads, 

Fried or Koasted 
Sweetbreads en Nid 
Curried Chicken 
Hotchpotch, Italian 
Beef Loaf 
Pressed Veal 
Jellied Tongue 
Rump Steak and Tomatoes 
Roulades of Beef 
Mock Pat6 de Foie G-ras 
Cottage Pie 
Irish Stew 
Bramson Toast 
Chipped Smoked Beef 
Galantine 
Porterhouse Steak with 

Oysters 
Croquettes — 

Oyster 

Lobster 



Croquettes — 

Chicken 

Chicken and Macaroni 

Rice 

Potato 

Celery 

Sweetbread 
Chicken Casserole 
Rice and Snow Casserole 
Creamed Chi(iken 
Philadelphia Scrapple 
Cheese Dishes 
Fondu of Cheese 
Rice and Cheese Pudding 
Cheese Puffs 
Cheese SouflB6 
Golden Buck 
Walsh Rarebit 
Macaroni and Cheese 
Cheese Rings 
Cheese Cutlets 



VEGETABLES 



Hashed Brown Potatoes 
Potato Chips 
Potatoes on Half-Shell 
Sweet Potatoes au gratin 
Pea Pancakes 



Buttered Rice 
Tomato Farcies 
Boston Baked Beans 
Baked Mushrooms 



SANDWICHES 



Brunette Sandwiches 

Walnut Sandwiches 

Egg 

Peanut " 

Watercress " 

Cottage Cheese " 

Salad 



Nasturtium Sandwiches 

Raisin 

Date and Nut 

Lettuce 

Anchovy 

Club 



Chicken 

Lobster 

Crab 

Shrimp 

Sardines 



SALADS 

Beet 

Fruit 

Dandelion 

Cucumber 

Pear 



Lettuce and Tomato Asparagus and 

Potato Shrimps Peach 

Cauliflower Endive Green 



Strawberry 
Banana 
Lenten 
Sweetbread and 

Celery 
Cherry 



m 



THE COOKING SCHOOL 





CAKES 




Huckleberry Chocolate 


Nut Cake 


Strawberiy Chocolate 
German Coffee Cake 


Bride's 


Cake 


Caramel Cake 


Springleys, German 


Marble Cake 


Apple Cake 




Gingerbread 


Fruit Cake 




Almond Macaroon 


Pound Cake 




Currant Cookies 


Gold Cake 




Cocoanut Cream Pub. 


Sponge Cake 




Gingersnaps 


Kleiner, Danish 




Doughnuts 


Almond Cake 




Peppernuts, Germai 


Daisy Cake 








WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNEl 




SOUPS 




Mock Turtle 


Oyster Bis 


sque 


Cream of Onion 


Oxtail Soup 


Lobster 


" 


Cream of Pea 


Glasgow Broth 


Clam 


:( 


Bean Soup 


Mulligatawny 


Cheese 


(t 


Onion Soup 


Chicken Cream 


Tomato 


U 


Split-Pea Soup 


Beef Bouillon 


Cream of, Spinach 


Clam Chowder 


Gumbo, Creole 


Cream of Celery 


Noodle Souj) 


Julienne 


Cream of Tomato 


Lentil Soup 


Red Snapper 


FISH 

Soft-Shell Crabs 


Pickerel 


Baked B ueflsh 


Terrapin 




Porgies 


Black Bass 


Pompano 




Salmon 


Sea Bass 


Whitefish 




Turbot 


Muskalonge 


Weakfish 




Sole 


Shad 


Flounders 




Whitebait 


Halibut 


Haddock 




Kingflsh 


Fresh Mackerel 


Perch 




Eels 




PlIiCE DE RESISTANCE 


Roast Beef 




Roast Lamb 


Braised Beef 




Veal Pot Pie 


Pot Roast of Beef 




Capon, 


Baked or Roasted 


Beef k la Mode 




Chicken, Fricasseed 


Beef Tongue 




Duck, Olive Sauce 


Roast Leg of Veal 




Goose with Sauerkraut 


Saddle of Mutton 




Turkey, 


, Roasted 


Beef Fillets Mignon 


11 ' 


Boiled 


Ham Supreme, Boiled 


It 


■with Truffles 


Lamb Crown 




Chicken with Ham 


Little Pig, Baked or Roasted 


Chicken Espagnole 


Roast Veal 









THE ART OF COOKERY 



m 



entr£:es 



Beefsteak Eagolit 

Beef Tongue Fillets, Baked 

Bouchees Savory 

Calf's Head a la Vinaigrette 

Creamed Chicken 

Chicken Croquettes 

Chicken Livers 

Chicken Timbales 

Lamb Croquettes 

Corned Beef, Creamed 

Oyster Patties 

Sweetbreads 



Sweetbreads Croquettes 

" Fillets 

Tongue Salmi, EagoM 
Scallop of Ham 
Welsh Rarebit 
Codfish Cakes 
Salmon Toast 
Chicken or Game 

Creamed in Aspic 
Veal Soup 
Pat§ de Foie Gras 

en Surprise 



SHERBETS 

Brandy and Sherry Sherbet Grape^Sherbet 

Cardinal Sherbet 

Champagne Sherbet 

Claret Sherbet 

Coffee Sherbet 

Crfeme de Mentha 

Crfeme Yvette 

Fruit Sherbet 

Ginger Sherbet 



Lalla Rookh Sherbet 
Maraschino Cherry Sherbet 
Mint Sherbet 
Orange Sherbet 
Peach Sherbet 
Roman Sherbet 
Rose-Leaf Sherbet 
Siberian Sherbet 



Artichokes 
Asparagus 
Brussels Sprouts 
Beets (Sour Sauce) 
Cabbage au gratin 
Carrots 
Cauliflower 
Chestnut Boulettes 
Chestnut Pur^e 



VEGETABLES 

Cucumber Farci 
Egg Plant Farci 
Green Corn, 

Creamed 
Green ,Corn 

Fritters 
Peas in Crustades 
Hominy Crescents 
Tomatoes 



Turnips 

Squash 

String Beans 

Cabbage 

Rice 

Mushrooms 

Creamed Celery 

Peppers 

Kohlrabi 



GAME 



Ducks, Broiled or Roasted 

" Canvas-backs 

" Redheads 

" Ruddy 

" Broad-bill 

" Teal 
Grouse, Roasted 
Partridge, Roasted 
Prairie Chicken, Roasted 
Pheasants, Roasted 
Hare, Roasted 
Babbit, B&utA 



Partridge, Baked 

Pigeons with Mushrooms 

Plover 

Snipe 

Squabs 

Woodcock 

§uails 
eed Birds 
Squirrels 
Venison Chops 
Steak 
Duck or Grouse Salmi 



124 



THE COOKING SCHOOL 





HOT DESSERT 




Apple Balls Fig Compote 
Baked Bananas Macaroni Souffle 
Cocoanut Timbales Omelet Souffle 


Plum Pudding 
Short Cakes 
Rum Custard 




PUDDING SAUCES 




Claret Sauce 
Caramel Sauce 


Hard Sauce 
Maple Sauce 

HOT SAUCES 


Whipped Cream 

Sauce 


Banana Sauce 
Chocolate Sauce 


Fruit Sauce 
Orange Sauce 

COLD DESSERT 


Sheri^ Sauce 
Soft Sauce 


Bavarian Cream 
Charlotte Russe 
Cabinet Pudding 


Caramel Custard 
Chestnut Cream 
Date Souffle 

ICE CREAMS 


Fruit Macedoine 
Strawberries en 

Surprise 


French Caramel Ice Cream Vanilla 
Philadelphia Ice Burnt Almond Violet 

Cream Chocolate Caf6 Frapp6 
Mousse Macaroon Fruit Frapp6 
Biscuit Glac6 Pistachio Water Ice 
Biscuit Tortoni Nougat 




PASTRY 


• 


Plain Paste 
Puff Paste 


Bouch^es 

patfe 


Tartlets 
Vol au Vents 


Cream 

Crab Apple 

Chocolate 

Custard 

Cocoanut 

Marlboro 


PIES 

Mince 

Pumpkin 

Raisin 

Rhubarb 

Huckleberry 

Almond Tartlets 

A FEW DRINKS ■ 


Macaroon 

Currant 

Cherry 

Peach 

Pineapple 

Apricot 


Whiskey Sour Claret Cup 
Manhattan Egguogg 

Cocktail Sherry Flip 
Martini Cocktail Mint Julep 
Vermouth Cocktail Pousse Caf6 
Hot Apple Toddy Tom and Jerry 
Sherry Cobbler Whiskey Collins 
Silver Fizz Horse's Neck 
Plain Gin Fizz Claret Punch 


Champagne Punch 
Punch 
Gin Rickey 
Mamie Taylor 
Whiskey Sling 
Hot Gin Sling 
Brandy and Soda 
Rock and Rye 



THE ART OF COOKERY J25 

MABKETING 

This is usually one of the terrors of the young 
housekeeper. There is no department of do- 
mestic science to which attention may be more 
profitably devoted than to the proper selection 
of food. Economy, health, and comfort all de- 
pend upon the efficient discharge of this duty. 
A feeling of utter helplessness comes over an 
inexperienced person when she faces the ordeal 
of a shop full of meats from which she has 
nerved herself to make a selection. She knows 
that those who are serving her are only too 
well aware of her incompetency and feels that 
they are ready to play upon it to the utmost. 
Every rule, and test, and guide to the selection 
of good meat leaves her, and she relies upon the 
recommendations of the salesman after a show 
of critical examination and of careful selection. 
Her mortification, disappointment, and humilia- 
tion, when the verdict of the family is rendered 
at the tJible, are too sacred to bear any comment. 
Eight here is where the novice needs all the 
resolution, perseverance, and intelligent action 
that she can summon. If she is a good cus- 
tomer of the butcher, she may so impress him 
with the assurance that bad service means the 
loss of her trade that she may tide over the 
learning period until sLe is strong enough to 

9 



126 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



be her own marketer. She may see what a 
piece of meat looks like before cooking, and then 
note how it turns out. It will take several such 
lessons to know even what part of the animal 
the cut came from. We have seen some sirloins 
sent out to young housekeepers that never grew 
within two feet of that location, or else the ani- 
mal was a fearful monstrosity. It will be found 
that it is one thing to know what are the best 
parts of meat to order, but it is another thing to 
know whether one has received the part one 
ordered. 

The simplest point to begin with is the odor 
of meat. There is a peculiar, characteristic 
odor to all meat. This is easily learned^ If the 
meat has the slightest odor of taint, or any dis- 
agreeable smell, do not hesitate a moment about 
sending it back, or refusing to accept it. You 
are not only thoroughly justified in doing so, 
but it is your duty to do it. Do not be deterred 
from it by any assurances or indignation on the 
part of the butcher, or by any fear that you may 
make a mistake, or be thought inexperienced or 
too finicky. In such eases a slight error in 
judgment is to be preferred to ptomaine poison- 
ing. The first step, and one that is very 
quickly learned, is to see that all meat, poultry, 
game, and fish are fresh and sweet in odor. 

A second test of the freshness and quality of 




ox— BEEF 



A — ^Head 

B— Sticking Piece 

G-^Neck 

D— Chuck, Second and Third 

E— Chuck, First 

F— First Cut of Ribs 

G— Middle Cut of Ribs ' 

H— Back Cut of Ribs 

I-Plate 

J- Brisket 

K— Butt End of Brisket 



L— Bolar 

M— Bony End Shoulder 

N— Sljin 

O — Loin 

P— Flank 

Q— Eiimp , 

R— Veiny Piece 

S— Round , ' 

T— Leg 

U-Tail ' 

V— Leg 




VEAL 

A — Head 

B-Neck 

C— Sticking Piece, End of Breast 

D— Shoulder 

E— Back 

P— Breast- 



G— Loin, Best End 
H — Loin, Bone End 
I— Flank 

J— Fillet and Cutlets 
K — Knuckle 

^^- 

MS 



-Feet 



THE ART OF COOKERY J27 

meat is that of its action under pressure. Press 
firmly upon the end of the meat with the thumb. 
If the dent made by the pressui'e rises up at 
once, the meat is all right. But if it does not 
rise, or is slow in rising, you may. be sure that 
the animal was an old one, or that the meat is 
not of good quality. 

The color of beef is also a good guide. If 
the meat is bright red, you may infer that it is 
fresh, and that it is probably ox-beef ; cow-beef 
is not quite so red. If the meat is dark red, the 
animal was probably poorly fed, and too old for 
food. Good ox-beef has a yellowish fat, while 
that of cow-beef is whiter. 

Some housekeepers 'who dislike fat meat se- 
lect the lean. But this is often a mistake. 
Fat animals are well nourished, and the meat is 
more likely to be tender than is that of lean ani- 
mals which are poorly fed, or over worked or 
driven. Lean parts of fat animals are the wiser 
selection. The best cuts are in the end the 
cheapest, for there is always a greater propor- 
tion of bone, gristle, and poor meat in the in- 
ferior cuts. These, of course, are useful in the 
making of soups, stews, etc., but they are ex- 
pensive in boiling and roasting pieces. 

The names of the pieces of beef, as most com- 
monly applied in America, are as shown in illus- 
tration. 



128 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

The best mutton is that of aaimals from three 
to five years old. Young mutton is tender, 
older mutton is richer and more juicy, and a 
great deal depends upon the breeding and feed- 
ing. 

Good mutton is of a dark red color, the meat 
is firm and juicy, the fat is clear, hard, and 
whitish. Do not hesitate to reject all mutton 
in which the fat is yellow. If the meat is 
flabby, and if the fat around the kidney is small 
and stringy, the meat is not good. 

There is less fat in the leg, and slightly more 
in the shoulder. There is also less bone in the 
leg; so it may be regarded as the best part of 
the sheep. As there is touch bone and fat in 
the neck, it is the least desirable part. 

In selecting mutton, look for the large vein in 
the neck. If this is of a blue color, the sheep is 
fresh; but refuse it if the vein is green. In 
selecting a hind-quarter, the kidneys will have 
a slight odor if the meat is not fresh. Compare 
the fat upon the back with that upon the kid- 
neys ; if they are both white and hard and of the 
same color, the m^at is all right. 

Lamb.— -The term is applied to the young of 
sheep until it is twelve months old. Ij; is then 
called a yearling, though still sold as lamb. 
Spring lamb is a luxury only because it is out 
of season. The flesh is insipid, and does not in 




LAMB OE MUTTON 



A— Head 

B— Neck 
C— Shoulder 
D— Back 



E— Breast 
F— Loin, Best End 
G^ — Loin, Bone End 
H— Leg 
I-Flank 




PORK 



A— Head 
B— Neck 
C— Shoulder 
D— Loin, Rib End 
E— lioin, Best End 
F— Breast 



G— Flank 
H— Ham 

I— Ham, Butt End 
' J— Ham, Hook End 



-Feet 



THE ART OF COOKERY 129 

any way compare with the lamb in season, which 
is usually in the summer months. Very young 
lamb is sold only by the quarter ; and the weight 
is then from 4 to 6 pounds to a quarter. 
Later in the season the weight is from 8 to 
12 pounds to the quarter. It will go as high 
as 25 pounds to the quarter,, but the carcass 
is then cut up the same as mutton. In cut- 
ting lamb the butcher splits the carcass length- 
wise and then quarters it. Two or three, ribs 
are left on the hind-quarter. In older animals, 
the leg is cut off and either cut into the leg for 
roasting and boiling, or into chops, as required. 
To distinguish a fore-quarter of lamb from a 
fore-quarter of mutton, it is only necessary to 
carry an idea of the difference of size, and to 
note that the bones of lamb are more reddish 
than are those of mutton. The breast and the 
adjacent ribs are considered the most delicious 
parts of the fore-quarter, and are usually 
roasted. It is advisable to remove the blade- 
bone to facilitate carving. 

The loin is either cracked for roasting, or di- 
vided into chops. The neck and breast are 
sometimes separated from the shoulder and 
roasted. 

Lamb does not keep long after killing. Look 
at the large vein in the fore-quarter or neck; 
if it is bluish the meat is in good condition ; but 



130 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

it is to be rejecte.d if the vein is of a green color, 
for that is an indication of unfitness. In se- 
lecting a hind'quarter it is safe to reject it if 
the fat over the kidney gives out a slightly dis- 
agreeable odor. 

Pork. — The leg and the shoulder of pork are 
most esteemed. The loin is the best roast. 
Good pork is marked by a pale red color in the 
lean, and a thin and delicate rind. There must 
be no green tint or disagreeable odor. 

Fish.^-Fish occupy a place midway between 
meat and vegetables. The red-blooded fish, 
such as the salmlon, are only slightly inferior to 
meat in point of nourishment. Firmness and 
good odor are the great tests for fish. Fish are 
unwholesome just after spawning; when boiled, 
the meat should be white. If there is a bluish 
tinge, or transparency after boiling, the fish 
are either not fresh or are out of season. 



LESSON X 

BUILDING FIRES 

One must be familiar with a range before one 
can control it. The dampers and drafts must 
be known, not only as to location, but their sev- 
eral effects upon the fire must be thoroughly 
understood. The time to learn all of this is 
when the range is cold and clean. There is al- 
ways a draft, or door below the fire to allow a 
plentiful supply of air to rush in and to feed the 
fire from below. There is also a controlling 
damper which shuts off the heat from passing 
up the chimneys, and throws the heat around 
the oven. , A third opening, or series of them, 
is placed above the fire-box and allows the air 
to pass over the fire, which has the effect of 
checking it. 

1. A draft below the fire-box. 

2. A damper in the pipe. 

3. A check-draft above the fire. 

When the fire is started, or when one desires 
a low fire to burn up quickly, the draft below 
the fire-box must be wide open; the damper in 
the pipe must be in such position that free draft 

131 



132 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

up the chimneys is allowed ; and the check-draft 
over the fire must be closed. These several 
forms of drafts or dampers are present in every 
range, and there may be some slight modifica- 
tion of them, but the principle is always the 
same. After the fire has well started, and it is 
desired to heat the oven, the damper controlling 
the pipe or chimney must be closed. That will 
throw the heat around the oven. If the fire is 
burning too violently the lower draft is closed, 
the check-draft above is opened, and the chim- 
ney damper may be also closed. 

In laying a fire, see that the stove is cleaned 
of ashes and clinkers. Open the lower draft 
and the chimney damper; and close the upper 
check-draft. Place some crumpled pieces of 
paper in the grate-box first. Do not lay in 
sheets of paper tightly pressed together. Use 
plenty of paper if the wood is large, or damp. 
Let a piece or two of the paper pass down 
through the bars of the grate so that it may be 
easily ignited from below. It is also well tc 
place a large piece of wood at the back of the 
fire-box, and to place the finest pieces of kin- 
dling first on the paper in the front. If hard 
coal is to be used use plenty of wood, and wait 
until the large pieces are burning well. Then 
place a thin layer of coal on top of this. After 
this has ignited and is burning well, add more 



BUILDING nRES J33 



coal. Do not fill the fire-box more than thr^e- 
quarters full. A heavily loaded fire-box will 
throw the heat to the top of the fire-box; will 
warp the top-covers and bars ; and will prevent 
a free draft over the top of the oven. Nothing 
is gained by this excessive and wasteful use of 
coal. After the fire burns well, close the lower 
draft and the chimney damper, and let the oven 
heat. Do not use kerosene or other explosive. 
If soft coal is used, it will ignite more quickly 
and easily than will hard coal. But it will also 
create more soot and dirt, which necessitates 
more frequent cleaning of the stove. 

The essential qualities of a goodrange are : 

1. Simplicity of construction. This renders 
control of the fire easy, and affords fewer 
chances for getting out of order. 

2. Plain finish. This enables one to keep it 
looking well, with little trouble. 

3. Perfection in the fitting of parts. This 
facilitates the control of tbe fire, and also of the 
heat, thus saving fuel and regulating the heat 
of the oven. 

Do not be afraid to open the oven door and 
to look in to see how things are baking or roast- 
ing. Learn to do this quickly and quietly. In- 
deed, all of the movements about a stove must 
be done in this way. 

The best time to blacken a stove is after the 



134 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

fire is laid, and just before lighting it. Moisten 
some stove-polish with cold water and apply 
to the stove with a " dauber." The blaeking 
must be rubbed in thoroughly, especially over 
the ' ' red spots. ' ' Then start the fire, and while 
it is burning up, polish the stove with the dry 
brush. 



LESSON XI 
SOUP STOCK 

Tbb Banking of stock, frequently looked upon 
Siy tht yoxmg houg©keieper as too intricate and 
tronblf acNcee to undertake, becomes as simple as 
vmny otiitr matters of cooking when divested 
of the seeming mystery surrounding it, a mys- 
tery arising only from the lack of a few explicit 
directions combined with the same amount of 
<3are and forethought necessary for the success 
in other departments of culinary art. 

Stock is simply the concentrated juices of 
meat, or fowl, estraeted by the process of long 
and gentle simmering. It is used as a nutritive 
basis for soup, and while there are certain 
rules to be followed, ingenuity and good judg- 
ment, combined with the ingredients at hand, 
will make it easy to produce a variety as ac- 
ceptable in the matter of soups as in the rest of 
the menu. 

Into the stock kettle many a little left-over 
of meat or fowl, or the bone of a steak or chop, 
should find its way. To the carcass of a fowl 
may be added a couple of pounds of veal with a 

S35 



J36 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

good-sized knuckle of the same, for a white 
stock ; brown stock may be made from a combi- 
nation of meats and fowl. 

In the making of soups from stock, cooked 
vegetables, a little meat or vegetable hash, or 
even a bit of cereal left from the morning meal 
will add substance to the thick soup ; and all of 
these will contribute to the delicious flavor, in 
which no single one predominates, that makes 
the good soup so vastly different from its op- 
posite — the one indifferently seasoned or too 
weak. 

Stock may be made the same day it is used, 
but rather than attempt this it is better to make 
one of the emergency soups, for which direc- 
tions are given elsewhere. A number of these 
may be made without stock. 

For cooking stock, a steam-tight kettle is all- 
important, as it is necessary that there should be 
no waste by evaporation. If a soup digester is 
considered too expensive, a granite-ware or 
porcelain-lined kettle with a tight-fitting cover 
will answer every purpose. Do not use an iron 
kettle if it can be avoided ; besides being heavy 
to handle it rusts easily, and is more difficult to 
clean. 

Vegetables should not be added to stock if 
it is to be kept for long, as their juices cause it 
to ferment sooner. In summer, it will be neces- 



SOUP STOCK 137 



sary to iDjing tte stock to a boil and skim it 
every day to prevent its souring. 

To prepare meats for stock, trim qiff all dried 
edges or useless bits, tHose that show any pos- 
sibility' of taint, or that have come in contact 
witi. rusty meat hooks. Rinse off the outside 
V(Sty quickly in' cbld trater and wipe with a clekii 
cloth. Bo not wash the meat after cutting it 
up; the inside is clean, and each tvashiiig will 
result in sonie loss of the juices, tlut the. meat 
in small pieces : crack or saw th,e bones to a,llow 
quicker and niore thorough extraction of the 
juices of the nieat and the gelatine of ttie bones. 
Thfe marrow should' be rethoved from tbe inside 
of the boiifes and pladM in the kettle' first ; then 
pack in the hieat aiid bones and cbver with cold 
watel* in the proportion of one quart of water' 
to one pound of meat. 

When cooked meats are to be used, carefully 
trim from the steak or roast any parts of fat 
or bone that have been burned in broiling or 
roasting, as these will give a bitter flavor to the 
stock. 

After adding the wa;ter to the meat knd bbhes, 
let it stand for half an hour or tnore to allow 
the juices to be drawn out bef bi'e heating; then 
^Tlt the kettle over a slow fire alid bring the 
contents to a gentle simmer. Never let a soup 
boil rapidly, as the rapid boiling hardens the 

lO 



138 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

outside of the meat and prevents the escape of 
the juices, while gentle simmering extracts the 
nutritive qualities. 

Do not skim the stock as the scum begins to 
rise. This scum is simply the blood and juices 
which at this stage of the cooking coagulate and 
rise to the surface; a little later it will disin- 
tegrate and be absorbed in the liquor; to skim 
and throw it away is to lose a portion of the 
very thing we are trying to procure — the nutri- 
tive elements of the meat. 

After simmering is well begun, add the sea- 
soning in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful salt 
to a quart of water, a half saltspoonf ul of ground 
White pepper, a celery root, or a tiny bit of 
celery seed, or the tops of celery — the leaves of 
celery, by the way, need never be thrown out, for 
if not needed at once they may be dried like any 
other savory herb, and put away for future use. 
Boiled in the stock, before straining, they serve 
the same purpose as the seed. Add a sprig of 
parsley, and if cloves or allspice are used, the 
whole ones are better, as they strain out, and the 
flavor is better than in the ground spices, how- 
ever pure they are supposed to be. 

In the city markets " soup bunches " may be 
had for a penny or two, consisting of a sprig of 
parsley, a small carrot, a young onion, and 
whatever savory herbs are in the market, but 



SOUP STOCK J39 



the housekeeper is fortuaate if she can have 
her own parsley bed in her back yard, or a box 
of it growing on her back porch, as it is one of 
the most useful of seasonings and garnishings. 
A mixture of dried sweet herbs put up in bot- 
tles, to be found at first-class grocers ', is a con- 
venience, as it saves the trouble of measuring 
out each one separately. A teaspoonful of this 
to 1 quart of stock is the right proportion. 

When the. meat has cooked until reduced to 
shreds, or drops from the bones, leaving them 
clean, strain the stock into the stock-jar of 
earthen or stone ware. A rather fine strainer 
that fits the jar, or a colander into which a piece 
of cheesecloth is laid, should be used. Dip the 
stock from the kettle into the strainer, allowing 
it to run through without pressing or squeezing. 
By letting it stand a short time all the liquor 
will run through, leaving the scraps quite dry. 
These are of no further use. 

Stand the jar where the stock will cool 
quickly, and when cool put in the refrigerator ; 
the fat will rise to the top and form a cake hard 
enough to remove without trouble by running a 
knife around the edge of the jar. If a good 
proportion of bone has been used, the stock, 
when cold, will be a stiff jelly. The cake of fat 
on the top will help the stock to keep, by ex- 
cluding the air, and need not be removed at once. 



140 THE COOKI NG SCHOOL 

as a portion of it may be cut and the necessary 
amount of stock taken out ; the remaining stock 
should be heated to allow the cake to form on 
the top again. When the fat is taken off it 
should be clarified with raw potato and added to 
the beef drippings for frying and sauteing. 

The stock thus made will be sufficiently clear 
for most soups, but it must be clarified if a 
very clear one is to be made. 

To clarify stock remove every particle of fat, 
beat the white of 1 egg for every quart of stoek, 
add this and the crushed shell of the egg to the 
stock while the latter is cold, mixing it in very 
thoroughly. Put it over the fire and stir con- 
stantly while heating, so that the egg will not 
settle. "When it has reached the boiling point, 
leave it to simmer for ten minutes ; a thick scum 
will then have formed. Take the stock from 
the fire and add half a cup of cold water, let it 
stand a few minutes and strain through a col- 
ander in which a fine napkin or othei* thin cloth 
wrung out of cold water has been laid. 

Do not pour the stock directly on the napkin 
or the scum will clog it, but let it first run 
through a fine wire strainer which will catch the 
scum and the shells. Either before or after 
clarifying, this stock is ready for an almost end- 
less variety of soups or consommes by the addi- 
tion of cooked vegetables, macai:oni, spaghetti 



SOUP STOCK J4I 



ov vermicelli, rice or barley ; or it may be used 
in gravies and side dishes. 

If dark soup is desired, it may be made by the 
addition of a little caramel or dark roux, or by 
browning some sliced vegetables or diced fresh, 
meat in better, and adding it to the stock. 

To make -a, white stock, use veal and chicken 
in about equal; parts ; follow the directions for 
beef in preparing the veal, cut up and joint the 
chicken as for stewing, and proceed as for the 
other stock, omitting in the seasoning, cloves, 
or any spices that will darken the stock, and 
using celery seed or celery salt and white pep- 
per. A fowl that is too old for serving in other 
W^-ys may be, used for chicken soup ; the long, 
slow simmering will sometimes be the only 
method of cooking a fowl that proves to be very 
tough. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

1 quart gtock; 1 cup tomatoes; 1 cup chopped 
potatoes ; % cup chopped onion ; % cup chopped 
celery; 34 c^P chopped carrpt; 1 quart boiling 
water ; % cup cooked corn ; % cup peas ; i/^ cup 
chopped turnip; 1 teaspoonful salt; % salt- 
spoonful pepper; 1 teaspoonful sugar; 1 bay 
leaf. 

Some of these vegetables may be omitted, and 
rice, barley, or vermicelli added. Cabbage and 
parsnips may be added, but as these are fre- 



IC THE COOKING SCHOOL 

quently objectionable it is well to use them only 
when the tastes of the diners are well known, or 
in such small quantities, finely chopped, that the 
flavor will be very slight. 

Cook the chopped turnip, onion, carrot, and 
celery for ten or fifteen minutes, drain off the 
water, and add these and the other vegetables 
to the stock and boiling water, simmer until 
tender, but not broken ; add the seasoning, and 
serve, 

JULIENNE SOTJP 

1 quart stock; 1 pint vegetables same as in 
vegetable soup; 14 saltspoonful white pepper; 
14 saltspoonful paprika; % teaspoonful salt. 

Cut the turnip and carrot into quarter-inch 
dice, or slice thin and cut any fancy shapes. 
Cut the potato in small dice, and the celery in 
thin slices. Cover the vegetables with boiling 
water, add the salt and boil long enough to cook 
tender without losing shape. Bring the stock 
to a boil, add the vegetables with the water in 
which they were cooked, season, and serve as 
soon as hot. 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 quart stock; 2 cups stewed tomatoes (or 1 
can cooked and strained) ; 1 teaspoonful sugar; 
1 teaspoonful salt; 1 saltspoonful pepper. 

Add the sugar, salt, and pepper to the 
strained tomatoes, then add the boiling stock. 



SOUP STOCK J43 



Serve with inch-scjuare croutons, well buttered 
and toasted in a hot oven. 

TOMATO AND GBBBN OOBN SOUP 

4 medium-sized tomatoes; 4 ears of green 
corn ; 1 pint milk ; 1 pint water ; 1 small onion ; 
1 tablespoonful butter; 1 tablespoonful flour; 
1 teaspoonf ul salt ; 1 saltspoonf ul pepper. 

Scald and peel the tomatoes, cut the corn 
from the cob, and mince the onion very fine. 
Cut the tomatoes in quarters and slice thin. 
Put in a saucepan with the boiling water and 
cook until tender, then add the milk and the 
flour and butter rubbed together; add the sea- 
soning, simmer gently until the flour is cooked. 
A pint of strong beef stock may be substituted 
for the mUk. 

SAGO SOXJP 

1 pint chicken or other white stock; % cup 
sago ; 1 pint boiling water ; ^ cup good cream ; 
1 teaspoonful salt ; i saltspoon white pepper ; 
1 blade mace. 

Wash the sago and soak it for two hours in 
as much cold water as it will absorb, then add 
the pint of boiling water and salt and mace and 
boil until it is clear. Take out the mace, add 
the stock and pepper, let it boil up and simmer 
gently for a few minutes; add the hot cream, 
and serve. 



144 THE COOKING SOiOOI 

.,0r use clear brown stock instead of white, ai)4 
omit the cream. !,,..>,,, i, ,, , ... ,,, ,; . i^^j^j 

Use tapioca or rice instead of sago, soaking 
and cooking tBb tapioca until clear. If rice is 
u«©di wash thorougb^y, through se-s^eral, waters, 
aad cook in boiling water ten minutes, jthen,^44 
the stock and 00pk slowly u^til .tlie rice is 
tender, Add more seaspttimg if nece^pary- 

., .f , ^<^ SOUP 

. ; 1 pint milk; 2. eggs; .1 dessertspoonful flqur; 
iV^ teaspponful yanilla ;e,^^ra?j;; s^lt and, sugar 
to taste. .,,, ,., 

Boil; the juitk and ^dd the yanilla; mix.tlj,^ 
flour with a little, cpldi milk, ppur, it .inlq^.t^be 
feoiling milk and cook until; it thickens, , ,th^ 
strain. Eeturn it to the fire and add iihe slightly 
beaten yolks of the eggsy and the sugar, keep- 
ing if. well,stirr/ed. , Beat tbe whites of 1;he; eggs 
to a snow, and cook in a pan of , water ^ntij 
set. Send the sioup to. the table with this snpv 
floating on the top. Serve with very ,.thia 
Msenits. . , . ... ;/ 

. i Being very easily digested; as well as uour- 
kMng, this is a good nursery or sick-room soup. 

BEEF SOUP (FRENCH RtBTHOp) 

3 Dounds lean beef: 1 large sMn bone ; 1 can 
tomatoes; 4 quarts- water; 2 teaspoonfels- siait: 



SOUP STOCaC 1145 



1 large onion; 2 leeks; 1 dozen black pepper- 
corns; % dozen cloves; 1 bay leaf. 

Einse tbe meat in cold water and wipe with 
a clean cloth. Out it into small pieces ; remove 
all the fat ; have the bone well cracked ; cover 
with cold water, and heat very slowly. "When 
itfis boiling add the toiftatoes, leeks, the onion 
which has been fried, and the seasoning. Sim- 
mer slowly f oijr hours, then strain ; add 2 lumpe 
of sugar burned in a spoon, or a spoonful of 
caramel. Let it. boil up, then serve. 



LESSON XII 
GEAVIES AND SAUCES 

These may be considered together because 
they are closely related. Gravies are really a 
kind of sauce. They are the cooked juice of 
meat, sometiraes mixed with water and thick- 
ened with flour. They are either light or dark, 
according as the quantity of flour used is great 
or small. When gravy is to be thickened with 
flour, the simplest method is to first wet the flour 
with a little cold water and to rub it up with a 
spoon into a thin paste. More cold water is 
added until the liquid is thin enough to pour. 
Then it is stirred rapidly into the requisite 
amount of boiling water, so that all of the 
starch grains in the flour will burst at once and 
evenly. If boiling water be used to mix the 
flour with at first, the grains of starch will be 
unevenly affected. Some will burst, others will 
not; those that do not will form lumps. 

When a dark gravy is required, the flour is 
stirred into the meat juice in the pan and is 
allowed to brown sufl&ciently over the fire. If 
there is much fat with the juice, the gravy will 

146 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES J47 

brown very rapidly, because the fat, when boil- 
ing, is very much hotter than boiling water. 
The boiling point of fat is higher than that of 
water. For this reason the flour is cooked much 
more thoroughly than is the case when water is 
used. 

Sauces are usually thought of as fruit prepa- 
rations to be eaten with dessert ; but the term is 
also properly applied to preparations of butter, 
eggs, and sugar, for puddings, and, indeed, to 
anything intended to give a relish to food. 
Meat juice, broth, fruit juice, cream, milk, 
water, may all be used in any cbmbination in 
making a sauce. 

Sauces are either white or brown, and, like 

gravies, may be of any consistency. They, top, 

are thickened with flour. In white sauces, the 

flour is cooked, but not browned. 

\ 

THICKENINGS FOB SAXJOES, GEAVIES, AND SOUPS 

Much depends on the manner in which thick- 
enings are made and blended with the dish in 
which they are used. They should always be 
perfectly smooth and of a rich, creamy con- 
sistency when added to the soup or sauce. If 
at all inclined to lumpiness, it is better to strain 
before attempting to combine them with the 
other ingredients ; the time required to do this 
will be less than must be consumed in trying to 



148 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

make them smooth by after-beating or cookr 
ing. 

If flour is mixed with an equal quantity of 
butter there is no difficulty in rubbing it smooth, 
and by stirring into it a small portion of the cool 
broth, soup, or sauce, then adding it to the boil- 
ing liquid and stirring briskly, the desired 
smoothness will result; Flour and butter suffix 
cient for a week's use may be prepared before- 
hand, if it be kept in the refrigerator or some 
other cool place. 

If brown thidsening is required, the desired 
shade of color may be obtained by browning the 
flour and butter and cooking together until dark 
enough, stirring all the time, and taking care 
that it does not burn ; or roux or caramel may 
easily be kept on hand for this purpose. 

When eggs are to be used for thickening,^ they 
must be beaten very light and added very grad- 
ually to the sauce, and stirred briskly while 
it cooks just enough to thicken, but it must not 
be allowed to boil, for it is very likely to curdle. 
The egg should always be added just before 
serving. 

PUDDING SAUCES 
FOAMY SAUCE 

Whites of 2 eggs; 1 cupful sugar; 1 eupfal 
asilk, scalded ; juice of 1 lemon. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES H9 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy, but 
not stiff. Beat in the sugar, then the hot milk 
and lemon juice very slowly ; serve hot. 

BEOWN STTQAE SAUCE 

1 heaping tablespoonful butter ; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls flour; 1% cupfuls boiling water; li/^ cup- 
fuls brown sugar; 14 teaspoonful nutmeg or 
cinnamon. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, cook and stir 
until smooth. Pour in the water gradually, and 
boil, stirring constantly. Add the sugar, stir 
until it melts, sprinkle in the spice, and serve 
hot. 

LEMON SAtJCE 

1 cupful sugar ; 3 teaspoonfuls com starch ; 2 
cupfuls boiling water ; juice and grated rind of 1 
lemon; 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Mix the sugar and corn starch in a saucepan. 
Pour on the boiling water, stirring quickly, and 
boil and stir until the mixture is clear. When 
the sauce is to be served, stir in the rind, juic6, 
and butter. 

HAED SAXTCB 

1^ cupful butter; % teaspoonful nutmeg; 1 
tablespoonfttl lemon or fruit juice; % cupful 
pulverized sugar. 

Cream the butter, work in the sugar gradu- 
ally, and add the flavoring. Serve with a hot 
pudding. 



LESSON XIII 

BOILING 

Boiling food is the process of cooking it in a 
boiling liquid, usually water. Boiling water lias 
a temperature of 212°, and no matter how long 
it boils or how hard it boils, it never becomes 
hotter ; for at that point it is transformed by 
the heat into steam, and in time boils away. 
Boiling is marked by rapid bubbling and the 
breaking of the bubbles into steam. When, 
however, the bubbles are very small and break 
with only a slightvmotion, the water is said to 
simmer and the temperature is only 180°. 
When the water does not simmer or boil, yet is 
so hot that one cannot bear one's finger in it, 
it is scalding hot water. We put a cover over 
a vessel of boiling water to keep the steam in 
and so increase the heat. When we do this we 
observe that the steam condenses into drops of 
water upon the cover of the vessel. As steam 
changes back to water by condensing it gives 
up some of its heat, and in this way the heat is 
increased. A covered vessel of boiling water 
contains more heat than an uncovered vessel. 

150 



BOILING I5X 



Ordinary water contains certain gases and 
air dissolved in it. It is the oxygen in water 
which enables the fish to live beneath the sur- 
face. When, however, water is boiled, all of the 
air and gases are driven off. For this reason 
boiled water has a flat taste. Distilled water is 
insipid, and when used for drinking purposes is 
oxygenated,*. e.,has oxygen gas passed through 
it to revive it. 

Water that has boiled and afterwards stood 
for some time should not be used for cooking or 
drinking purposes. 

Careless housekeepers sometimes leave water 
in the kettle overnight and use it next morning 
after it has lost its freshness. 

If a vessel of boiling water is left uncovered, 
the water will boil away more rapidly than it 
will if covered. If the vessel is too full the 
water will boil over, since the water expands 
by heating, and the bubbles of steam occupy 
more space than did the water. 

Solid impurities: — salts and vegetable mat- 
ter — remain behind after the water has boiled 
away, and this, in time, leaves a crust upon the 
inner surface of the vessel. 

The chief food elements affected by boiling 
are the starch and the albumen., Cold water has 
no effect upon starch. It will mingle with it, 
but if allowed to stand, the starch will soon set- 



iS2 THE CCX5KING SCHOOL 

tie 1» the bottom of the vessel. If boiling water 
bQ poured upon finely ground starch those gran- 
ules which the water first touches will swell and 
burst, allowing the contents of each granule to 
mix with the boiling water. ; But those granules 
which the water does not reach will he un- 
changed, and the mass will be lumpy. If , how- 
ever, the starch be rubbed up with cold water 
to a consistency sufficient to permit the mass to 
yun, and it be then poured into boiling water, 
the granules will ajll burst, and aSithe contents 
mix with the water, a smooth, uniform mixture 
results. This applies only to those starchy 
foods used in the form of a fine powder. Sblid, 
compact, starchy foods should be put at onoe 
into boiling water. 

Starch in a raw* or uncooked state is not 
wholesome. When a starchy fodd is cooked the 
grains of starch; swell and burst. For this 
reason a cooked potato which contains much 
starch is mealy and flaky. Naw ' potatoes, do 
not become so oh boiling, as they contain -but 
very little starch. In potatoes which have been 
allowed to sprout, the starch is changed into 
gum and this renders them unfit for food. ■ 

Albumen is purest in the white of an egg^ in 
which it occurs . in; a liquid form. It is also 
found in meats, especially in the juices and 
fibres of lean meat; this is called blood albumen. 



BOILING 153 



If an egg is put into boilipg water the white or 
transparent portion soon becomes opaque; it 
n^^itbecQfli^i tough; and, finally, hard or brit- 
ij\^ The yolk, too, contaws some albumen, 
which bqqona^ m^aly and dry in boiling. , 

When a piece of lean meat is placed in boiling 
•vy;af;er if, wijj.seem to shrivel, and dimii^isji. in 
size. AU of its juices will be, retained, and the 
w:ater wilj remain: clear and uncolored^ But if 
it be placed in :col4 water the latter will be dis- 
colored by the juices which have been soaked 
pnt- Tlio; water, as it becomes hotter, will as- 
sume a , brown, color. The cold water has ex- 
l^^C^.the juices from the meat, while the boil- 
ing watey hardened th© albumen, and closed the 
pores of the meat, thus preventii\g,the escape of 
the juices. If thi^ n^eat is to be boiled it must be 
put at once into boiling water, so as to cause it 
to retain the juices. B,ut;if soup or broth is 
to be TO^d^ by the extraction of the juices th» 
meat should be placed in cold water, and 
the water, should never pass the simmering 
point. 

Water containing salt or sugar is denser than 
ordinary water, ,cQi:\sqquently it is more difficult 
to bring it to a " boil. ' ' Soft water extracts the 
juices of the meat more ,rea^ly than does hard 
water. Hard water is be$t fqr boiling meat or 
vegetables. If .<?nly soft v^ter is atih^wd it 



15i THE COOKING SCHOOL 

should be salted in order to preserve vegetables 
whole while cooking. 

When a piece of meat is boiled it is essential 
to retain its nutritious juices and not to allow 
them to escape into the water. To accomplish 
this, the meat is placed in boiling, salted water 
and allowed to boil as hard as possible for from 
five to ten minutes. This is enough to harden 
the albumen and to close the pores. The vessel, 
tightly covered in order to retain the steam, is 
placed where the water will gently simmer. 

The scum which forms on the top of the water 
is albumen from the outside of the meat; it 
should be removed by skimming, as otherwise it 
will settle upon the meat and spoil its appetiz- 
ing appearance. 

Great care is necessary in turning the meat in 
boiling so as not to allow the escape of its 
juices. A fork should never be used for this 
purpose. When soup, broth, and teas are to be 
made it is essential to extract all of the juice 
and strength of the meat. To do this, place the 
meat, cut in small pieces, in cold water, and al- 
low it to soak as long as possible. Do not let it 
boil, but only simmer until all of the nutriment 
is extracted. 

When stews and fricassees are made, it is 
intended that both the meat and liquid shall be 
eaten. It is, therefore, necessary that the nour- 



BOILING J55 



ishment be retained in both the solid and the 
liquid. To accomplish this a combination of 
both of the above principles is called for. Place 
the meat in cold water. Let it boil quickly, and 
after skimming place it where it can simmer. 
By placing in cold water some of the nutriment 
is extracted, and the rapid boiling stops the ex- 
traction before it has gone too far, while the 
simmering cooks the solid thoroughly. 

As vegetables contain a little albumen and 
much juice, it is best to place them in hot water 
and bring them to a boil quickly. This will 
harden the albumen, keep in the juices, and 
cause them to be absorbed by the bursting 
starch granules. 

LESSON RECIPES FOR BOILING 
BOILED POTATOES 

Take middle-sized potatoes, peel, wash, and 
drain them, put them irto a two-quart stewpan 
with 1 quart of water ai^d a little salt. When 
they have boiled fifteen minutes, drain off care- 
fully every drop of water, cover closely, and let 
them steam till done, which will be in about five 
minutes more. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Mashed potatoes are ordinarily prepared by 
crushing the hot boiled potatoes with a rolling- 



156 THE CCX5KING SCHOOL 

pin or the back of a spoon, the potatoes being 
placed in a bowl or dish, or on a pie-board. A 
little milk, butter, and salt may be added or 
not, according, to taste, and the potatoes may 
either be at once served up, or pressed into 
forms, browned off in the oven, and then served. 

, SEASONING 

A good basis for the proper amount pf sea- 
soning to give vegetables is 1 tablespoonful of 
butter ; Vo teaspoonful of salt, and V^ saltsppon- 
ful of pepper to one pint of vegetables, , A tea- 
spoonful of sugar ^irill improve the flavor of 
peas, beans, etc. , 

BOILED MUTTON 

Place the meat in boiling water which has 
previously been salted. First, however, be 
careful to wipe the meat and also see that the 
fat is removed. The length of time for boiling 
is ten minutes. Then simmer allowing twelve 
minutes for each pound of meat. You may, if 
you prefer, boil a cup of rice with the meat. 
Parsley sauce or caper sauce should be served 
with boiled mi;itton. 

CAPER SAUCE FOR BOILED MUTTON 

Take 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; 1 table- 
spoonful of flour ; I pint of boiling water ; i tea- 
spoonful of salt, and J teaspoonful of pepper. 



BOILING 157 



Put the butter into a saucepan on a moderately 
hot stove ; when melted a;dd the flour and blend 
smoothly ; pour the water in very slowly, being 
sure to stir constantly ; add the salt and pepper, 
and boil three minutes. Then add to it a table- 
spoonful of capers. 



LESSON XIV 

STEWING 

SxEwiNG is the process of cooking by gentle 
heat in a very small quantity of water. The es- 
sential difference between boiling and stewing 
lies in the fact that in the latter process the heat 
of the liquid never reaches the boiling point; 
but the process is one of gentle simmering. 
Therefore stewing is slower than boiling; but 
it is in many respects one of the best modes of 
preparing food. The long-continued moist, 
gentle heat has the effect of rendering tender 
and grateful the coarser kinds of meat that by 
any other treatment would be unpalatable. It 
is also an economical process of cooking — not 
only in the amount of fuel necessary, but in the 
quality and quantity of the food articles that 
may be prepared in this way. For there are 
such possibilities in the judicious and abundant 
use of seasonings and additional ingredients, 
that it is one of the best means of making over 
the savory remnants of previous meals. The 
one great principle of successful stewing is to 
remember that the food must not boil violently. 

158 



STEWING 1» 

This causes meat to become tough and shriv- 
elled, and renders it less nutritious and pala- 
table. Some cooks fry the meat slightly before 
placing it in the water to stew. This is done for 
a double purpose: first, to retain as much as 
possible of the nutritious juices, and, second, to 
furnish a rich brown gravy which adds to the 
quality of the dish. These principles of cook- 
ing are equally applicable to the stew, the ra- 
gout, the haricot, and the salmi; and it is the 
skilful efficiency in the practice that lends such 
excellence to the French cooking. The small 
quantity of water used ensures a rich gravy, or 
cidlis, as the French call it. The loss of water in 
the necessary gentle simmering is ,only 15 per 
cent. Good judgment must therefore be used in 
placing sufficient water with the food. If too Ut- 
ile is used, there is danger of the water evaporat- 
ing and the meat and vegetables burning. If too 
much is used, the gravy, or cullis will be thin 
and watery, or the dish will not be ready for the 
meal. 

To attempt to remedy the fault of too 
much liquid by rapid boiling, in order to cause 
evaporation, merely violates all the principles 
of stewing and ruins the dish. As only a small 
quantity of water is used the meat and vege- 
tables are cut into small pieces, the latter pref- 
erably into dice. The meai^ however, is not cut 



{60 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



SO small as in making soup. • The reason for this 
is that it is desired to have some of the nutri- 
ment in the meat, while in soup it is to be eh' 
tirely extracted and the meat is discarded. An- 
other way to ensure in the same dish both rich 
broth and nutritious mekt is to first place the 
bones, gristly portions, and a few small pieces of 
meat in cold water and let them come to a boil. 
This will give a rich broth or gravy. Then the 
lean parts of meat are added and the whdle sim- 
mers until cooked. The water will absoi'b oiily 
so much of the juices of the meat; When it has 
absorbed all that it can the water is said to be 
saturated with the solution, and the process of 
absorption ceases. If raw nieat is to be tised,' ' 
it is well to brown it on the outside before stew- 
ing in order to keep in the juices; but if pieces 
of cold roast beef or broiled steak are used, thi^ ' 
will not be necessary, as the previous cookiilg 
will have effected that end.' If the meat to be 
used is quite tough: it uaay bfe rendered tender 
by soaking it in vinegar before using ; the tough- 
ness depends upbii' the Jjrdteids, wM<ih are in- 
soluble in water, but are soluble in an acid. It 
is'for this reason that the juice of ' lemort is ' 
used with meats. The cheapest' poi*tions'bf 
meat may well be used in stewing, as may also • 
the meat of fowls-, tough game, ' and lai^gfe fish. 
The fat upon meat will make the steW ifioher. 



STEWING J6J 



liW'loiBnitlie vegetables are used they are not put 
in with, the meat ; for they do not take so long to 
cook. They are .best added about half an hour 
before the stew is done. It is well to take out 
the! bone and gristle before adding the vege- 
tables.; onions j however, if used, may be put in 
at the same time as the meat. If dumplings 
are to be i added, they will require only ten or 
. fifteen minutes to cook. They are best cooked 
by the steam- from the stew. It is not at all 
necessary that they should be immersed in the 
liquid, but are dropped upon the meat and vege- 
tables so that the steam may reach them. 'Tbe 
vesse^ : must be covered while the dumplings are 
in; and the stewis to be served at once when 
they are done, else they will become heavy. 
When we use vegetables and dumplings with the 
meat we call the dish a stew. If the meat and 
vegetables ar© cut very small, as small as a 
French bean, we call it a /laricoi. ■ 

• ! If wine, is used as a flavor, the dish is a 
ragouti ., , ^ :, , , 

If game instead of meatjs used, it is a salmi. 

If fish is used, it is a chowder. 

In preparing meat for the stew be sure to 
take out all of the .small particles of broken or 
splintered bone,, and to. wipe the meat. If fresh 
mefit is tp, b?i ordered for the stew, the. shin, 
neck, shoulder, or aitch bone may be.chosei^. 



Jffl THE COOKING SCHOOL 

But it must not be forgotten that remains from 
previous meals may be used. 

If fresh meat is used, brown it. First melt 
the fat in a frying-pan and, after seasoning the 
small pieces of meat and dredging them in flour, 
fry them in the fat until browned outside. 

If onions are used, they too may be browned 
and put in with the meat. Enough water is 
added to cover the meat. The potatoes are. 
pared and quartered, and parboiled' for five 
minutes. They are added twenty minutes be- 
fore the stew is done. Half an hour before the 
stew is done take out the bone and gristle and 
add the other vegetables. When ready to larve, 
take out the meat and vegetables with a skim- 
mer and thicken the gravy if necessary. Add 
seasoning, and pour the gravy over the nleat 
and vegetables. 

A fricassee is a combination of stewing and 
frying. By the latter process the meat may or 
may not be browned. No vegetables are used in 
the fricassee. Chicken and veal are the meats 
usually used for this dish. 

BEEF STEW 

1 pound beef; 1 small turnip; 1 small carrot; 
1 small onion ; 4 medium-sized potatoes ; 1 quart 
boiling water ; 1 teaspoonful salt ; sprinkle pep- 
per; flour. 



STEmNG J63 

Buy tough, juicy beef from the leg, shin, 
lower part of the round, or the neck. Wipe, re- 
move the fat, and cut the lean meat into inch 
cubes. Shake flour over it, and roll it so that it 
will be covered. Peel and slice the onion, brown 
it in the fat from the meat, and put into a sauce- 
pan with the boiling water, salt, and pepper. 
Brown the floured meat in the same fat, and add 
it to the boiling water. Simmer one hour to 
soften the meat and draw out some of the juice. 
Wash the turnip, carrot, and potatoes; take a 
thick paring from the turnip, a thin paring from 
the potatoes, and scrape the carrot thinly; cut 
the potatoes into quarters, the turnip and carrot 
into slices, then into quarter-inch dice. When 
the stew has been cooking fifteen minutes, or 
forty-five minutes before it is to be served, put 
the carrots and turnips on to boil in a separate 
saucepan in boiling salted water ; one-half hour 
before it is to be served, put the potatoes in 
with the other vegetables. Before putting in 
the dumplings, drain the water off the vege- 
tables and add them to the stew. Then boil the 
stew to cook the dumplings for ten minutes. 
Serve on a hot platter, with the dumplings 
around the edge, the potatoes inside, and the 
meat and vegetables in a mound in the centre. 
This method completes the stew in an hour. 

Another way is to prepare the meat and 



164 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

vegetables as above, put them all together in a 
saucepan and let the stew simmer slowly for 
two or three hours. 

VBAIj PEICASSBE 

2 pounds shank or neck of veal J 2 small 
onions ; 1 teaspoonful salt ; % teaspoonful pep- 
per; flour; dripping; % cup milk; 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter. 

Eemove the bones, if there are any; place 
them i^i a saucepan with the salt and 'pepper 
and add 2 cups cold water. < Simmer, and while 
cooking, slice the onions, cut the meat into inch 
cubes, remove the fat and dri^dge the meat with 
flour. Melt 1 teaspoonful dripping in a pan, fry 
the onion golden brown and add it to the water. 
Brown the meatislightly and add. Simmer one 
hour. Cook one tablespoonful flour in one table- 
spoonful butter > add the milk gradually to it, 
and stir it. into the fricassee. Boil five minutes, 
and serve. If desired, 2 potatoes, which have 
been parboiled five minutes, may be sliced and 
added to the fricassee after the meat. 

CHICKEN PEICASSEE 

: Clean a chicken thoroughly, Eemove the 
crop by pulling it out at the end of the neck. 
Tal^e out the lungs, heart, gizzard, and liver. 
Cleaa the gizzard, cu,t off the green galltbladder 



STEWING J65 



from the liver, being careful not to break it, or 
tbe bitter juice will spoil the chicken. Cut off 
the legs and wings, and separate them at the 
joints. Cut the Chicken ;iato pieces about the 
size of the legs, and put all the pieces, with 
the heart, gizzard, and liver, into a kettle with 1 
quart boiling water, 1 teaspoonful salt,, and a 
sprinkle peeper. Simmer one-half hour to each 
pound, of until tender. Eemove the chicken 
from the water, let the water boil, and mix 1 
t9,t)legpdoiiful flour with enough cold water to 
make a smooth paste, stir it into the bbiling 
water, and boil five minutes. Brown the chicken 
in a little butter in a frying-pan, pour the gravy- 
over it, and serve on slices of toast, or with po- 
tatoes on the table. ' 



LESSON XV 
FRYING 

Frying is the process of cooking by immers- 
ing the food in hot fat— not using merely 
enough to keep the food from sticking to the 
vessel, but sufficient to wholly cover the articles 
of food. This requires a fairly deep kettle and 
a quantity of fat. It is not necessarily an ex- 
pensive process, as the fat may be saved and 
used over and over again. 

The fat used is clarified fat from fowl, suet, 
beef fat, and lard. It is prepared by saving all 
such uncooked fat and making it pure and clear. 
To do this, the fat is cut in small pieces, covered 
with cold water, and cooked slowly until it is 
melted and the water nearly all evaporated. It 
is then strained, and the scraps are pressed in 
order to get all of the fat out of them. It is 
then set aside to cool, and the fat will form a 
solid cake on top and the water will remain be- 
low and can be poured off. To this cake of 
fresh fat may be added dripping from roast 
beef, chicken, veal, or pork. Do not use the fat 
from turkey, ham, or mutton, as it is too strong 

i66 



FRYING t67 

and will impart a disagreeable taste to the food. 
As new fat is added, the whole mass should be 
melted, as by this means it is freshened. Fre- 
quent melting and straining will make it pos- 
sible to keep fat sweet and good for weeks. 

This mixture of several sorts of fat is an ad- 
vantage in frying; for if suet alone is used, it 
will cool too quickly and also give a strong 
flavor to the food. The very best fat for fry- 
ing is olive oil, but this, of course, has the great 
drawback of being too expensive for ordinary 
use. The fat must be absolutely free from 
water or moisture. Even the steam from a 
kettle must not be allowed to condense near the 
vessel, for the slightest moisture will cause the 
fat to boil over and take fire, with the possibil- 
ity of dangerous results. Keep all water away 
from boiling fat. Even under the most favor- 
able circumstances the process of frying re- 
quires very skilful manipulation to keep the 
fat from covering the stove, taking fire, or fill- 
ing the house with offensive odors. The process 
is also difficult, inasmuch as the fat that falls 
upon the stove gives rise to a smoke that is very 
trying to the eyes, nose, and throat of the oper- 
ator. 

In frying, the fat does not boil, but is merely 
hot. When we reflect that boiling water has a 
temperature of 212°, and boiling fat is between 



J68 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

550° and 600°, we can rQa,dily understand th^t it 
is not necessary to boil the fat to produce he^ 
enpugli to cook th^s^f pod. The proper tempera- 
ture is about 375°. It is plain that f pod can, bp 
cooked in this way m]ich more quickly than :b35 
bpiling the water. After the fat is put into the 
vpsaeland melted) the proper test, for the requi- 
site idfigree of heat is to place in. it, a slice; of 
potatp. I^ this browns in from forty to sixty 
second^, the fat is ready for use. If, too many 
pieces of meat, or other food are placed in the 
fat at the same time, th^y will reduce the tem- 
perature of the fat and retard the process. 
The object is tp keep the f^t at as steady, and 
unifpriji a temperature as possible. Sec that 
the pieces of food are dried before planjing in 
the wire basket, for immersion, as even the 
slightest moisture on the food will cause the fat 
to boil over and take fire. If, on immersion, the 
fat should threaten to boil over, merely raise 
the basket from the vessel, and it will subside. 
As soon as the pieces are browned, raise the 
basket and let it drip over the vessel. Gare 
must be taken to let the fat drip very thoroughly 
from the food; this may be facilitated by lightly 
shaking the wire basket. Then place the pieces 
upon a sheet of absorbent, unglazed, or un- 
sized paper to absorb the fat, and keep hot until 
served. 



FRYING J69 



It must not be supposed that any of the fat 
enters the meat while it is cooking. The fat 
should be hot enough to close the pores and to 
harden the outer albumen so that no fat can 
enter. That degree of heat is determined as 
indicated above. 

When the cooking is done strain the fat into a 
vessel, and set aside for future use. There is 
room for economy in the way the fat is used. 
The fat will turn brown after it has been used 
several times. Brown fat should never be used 
in cooking potatoes, or doughnuts. When it is 
too brown for this purpose, use it for croquettes, 
and lastly for fish or fish-balls. If the pieces are 
crumbed before frying, see that all of the 
crumbs are strained out, else they will adhere to 
the vessel and burn. The chief foods to be fried 
are chicken, meat, oysters, croquettes, potatoes, 
fritters, doughnuts, fish, and fish-balls. If the 
pieces of meat are large, it is well to remember 
that it is possible for them to become brown be- 
fore they are cooked through. In the case of 
large pieces of food, it is necessary to set the 
kettle back from the intense heat of the fire so 
that the food may cook more slowly and thor- 
oughly. Cooked food such as croquettes, fish- 
balls, etc., and small fish, oysters, etc., do not 
take above one minute to brown. All food cooks 
more> quickly in hot fat than in any other 

12 



m THE COOKING SCHOOL ' 

way. When transfei^ring the basket from the 
kettle to the table see that no fat drips upon the 
stove or the floor. This can best be prevented 
by holding a tin plate under the wire basket. 

SAUTEING ^ , 

This is the ordinary method of frying in a 
shallow pan with just enough fat to keep- the 
article of food from burning or sticking to the 
pan. The food is browned on one side and therl 
turned. It is usually applied to omelets, frit- 
ters, cakes, and potatoes. In some households 
it is the only form of frying used ; bnt it is the 
most objectionable and injurious form. The 
food becomes thoroughly saturated with grease, 
besides losing the juices upon which the flavor 
and nutriment depend, and indigestion inevi- 
tably follows. The only essentials to success in 
this process are a hot griddle and a quick fire. 
Fried chicken is really sauted. The chicken is 
of course very tender. The pieces are wiped, 
dredged with flour, salt, and pepper, and are 
sauted in hot salt pork fat until browned. The 
chicken must not be burned. Butter, so com- 
monly used, is not a good medium for saute- 
ing, as it decamposee and becomes chemically 
changed at a low temperature. Oil is the best 
medium of all, but is expensive. Lyonnaise and 
hashed brown potatoes are sauted, not friedi ^. 



FRYING 171 



LESSON EECIPES FOR FRYING 
PRIED POTATOES 

Cut cold wnite or sweet potatoes into slices. 
Put 1 tablespoonful dripping and 1 tablespbon- 
ful butter into a frying-pan. When the fat is 
smoking, put in enough potatoes to cover the 
bottom of the pan ; sprinkle on salt, and a very 
little pepper. When brown on one side, turn 
and brown the other side. Put on a hot dish 
while frying another panful. Many persons 
like a little onion juice sprinkled on the pota- 
toes, or some finely chopped parsley sprinkled 
over the slices while they are being browned. 

Use a level teaspoonful of butter and one of 
dripping for a small pan. 

TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes; 1 tablespoonful flour; l^ tea- 
spoonful salt; sprinkle pepper; butter. 

Mix the flour, salt, and pepper, and put into a 
dredger. Cut the tomatoes in slices, without 
skinning ; shake the flour-mixture over the 
slices on both sides. Put enough butter into a 
frying-pan (1 tablespoonful) to cover the bot- 
tom when melted, and, when it bubbles, lay in 
the slices of tomato, and cook until done. Make 
a sauce by using the liquid remaining in the pan. 
Add to it ^ cup of milk or water and thicken. 



!72 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

EGG PLANT 

Remove the skin and cut into sUees, not more 
than one-half inch thick. Soak in cold salted 
water one-half hour and drain. Beat an egg, 
prepare some fine bread crumbs. Wipe the 
slices, dip them in the beaten egg, then in the 
crumbs. Put 1 tablespoonful butter or drip- 
ping in a frying-pan, and brown the slices on 
both sides in the fat. The egg plant may be 
fried in a bath of fat, which is the better way to 
prevent its absorbing fat; fifteen minutes is 
necessary to cook it suflSciently if saut^ed. 

TO FEY SCEAPPLB AND INDIAN MUSH 

Cut cold scrapple or mush into slices one- 
half inch thick. Melt one tablespoonful drip- 
ping in a frying-pan, and be careful to let it 
get smoking hot. Put in a few slices, just 
enough to cover the bottom of the pan, and fry 
them until brown. Turn them, and brown the 
other side. Lay the slices a moment on clean, 
brown paper to drain, and serve hot on a hot 
plate. 

Shake flour over the slices of mush before 
frying. Use no fat in frying scrapple. 

FRIED SAUSAGES 

Prick them all over with a fork and pour 
boiling water over them in a saucepan. 



FRYING J73 



Let them come to a boil over the fire, then take 
them ont and wipe them dry. Have ready on 
the fire a frying-pan with enough hot fat in it 
to just cover the bottom. Put the sausages in 
before they grow cold. Turn and shake in 
the pan, while cooking, to brown them evenly 
and keep from bursting. When well browned 
they are done. They will require about ten 
minutes. 

FBIED HAM 

Cut ham into slices, one-quarter of an inch 
thick, if cooked; trim off the skin; sprinkle with 
a pinch of pepper ; have the frying-pan hot ; put 
in the slices of ham, and fry over a quick fire 
until the fatty part is nicely browned. 

For ham and eggs proceed as above, and 
when the ham is done take it out and keep hot. 
Then drop the eggs into the hot fat in the fry- 
ing-pan and cook until the eggs are firm. Take 
off the eggs and put one on each piece of the 
ham, which should be cut up. 



LESSON XVI 
BRAISING 

This is a combination of baking and boiling. 
It is especially recommended as a succ^ssfril 
method of cooking tbe inferior parts of meat; 
hence is economical. 

A special covered pan is used for the purpose. 
The meat is placed in the pan with some water 
or stock. The closely covered pan is then put 
in a well-heated oven. Herbs, onions, Carrots, 
bay leaf, and other seasoning are to be used to 
flavor insipid and tasteless meat. The process 
of cooking is slow, hence the meat will be ten- 
der when cooked. The juices which escape are 
taken up by the water or stock. The meat 
browns as the water evaporates. It is an effect- 
ive way of cooking tough meat, such as fowl, 
or beef, and also veal. The English braising 
kettle provides for the placing of hot coals upon 
the lid so as to entirely surround the food with 
heat. But this form is not necessary. A com- 
mon stew-kettle with tight-fitting cover answers 
admirably. A form of braising pan is known as 
a " roasting-pan," but as the process of roast- 

t74 



:..- BRAISING m 

ing requires that a current, of iair shall pass 
over the food, it will be plainly seen that the 
name is not appropriate to a tightly , covered 
pan. I 

^ 

LESSON RECIPES EOR BRAISING 
BRAISED BEEF — POT BOAST 

3 pounds brisket; 1 pint boiling water; 2 even 
tablespoonfuls flour; 1% teaspoonfuls salt; 1 
gill cold water ; 14 teaspoonful pepper. 

To Cook. — Wash the meat with a wet cloth ; 
trim and season it with the salt and pep- 
per. Put it into a very hot iron pot and set 
it on the stove where it will brown quickly. 
Turn it frequently. Cook the meat in this man- 
ner until thoroughly browned on all sides ; add 
a gill of boiling water, and draw the pot to a 
part of the stove where the contents will cook 
slowly for four hours. Add a gill of boiling 
water whenever the liquid in the pot becomes 
low. When the meat has been cooking three 
hours, mix the flour smoothly with the gill of 
cold water ; stir it into the pot ; add enough boil- 
ing water to make a full pint. Cook the meat 
an hour longer, then serve on a dish with a 
part of the gravy poured over it ; serve the re- 
mainder of the gravy in a gravy dish. It is 
very nice to substitute for the last water a quart 



J76 THE .CXXDKING SCHOOL 

of tomatoes, peeled and chopped, or in winter, 
a can of nice tomatoes, chopped fine. In both 
cases, take out the cores of the tomatoes. Any- 
inferior piece of beef will answer for this dish. 



LESSON XVII 
CASSEROLE 

This is a form of baking. It seems to alarm 
ih.e ordinary housekeeper on account of its for- 
midable name. But it is really a simple process 
and one that abundantly repays the slight 
trouble. 

A casserole is a covered dish of pottery de- 
signed to "withstand the intense heat of the oven. 
This is the term as applied to the form of bak- 
ing. There is also another form which is really 
a mould in which food is cooked and turned out 
and served upon a dish. The ordinary form of 
meat en casserole is as indicated, and the food 
is served in the dish. 

The meat or chicken, which must be tender, is 
placed in the casserole, together with vegetables 
which have been slightly browned, and a small 
quantity of stock. This is placed in a hot oven 
and allowed to cook for three-quarters of an 
hour, tightly covered. Potato balls or saute 
strips of potato and mushrooms are added, and 
the whole in the then uncovered dish is allowed 

J77 



t78 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

to cook for fifteen minutes. It is then ready to 
be served in the casserole. 



LESSON RECIPES FOR CASSEROLE 

CASSEROLE OF BICE AND MEAT 

Boil 1 cupful of 1 rice till .tender (wash rice 
thoroughly). Chop very fine half a pound of 
any cold meat, season highly with salt and pfep- 
per (1/^ teaspbonfiir salt, i/^ saltspoohfltl of 
pepper; 1 spoonful celery salt; 1 teaspbiMfill 
finely chopped onion- 1 teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley; 1 saltspoonful each thyme and marjo- 
ram). Add 1 beaten egg; 2 tablespooDtfuls of 
fine cracker ctumbs, and moisten with hot Wiater, 
or stock enough to pack it easily^ Butter a 
small mould, line the bottom and sides one-half 
an inch deep with rice, pa;ck in the meat in the 
centre, cover closely with rice, and steam forty 
mimitesi Loosen it around the edge of the 
mould ; turn it out on a ptatteir, and pour tomato 
sauce over it. 

Tomato Sauce. — '% can tomatoes; 1 cupful 
water ; 2 cloves ; 2 allspice ; 2 peppercorns ; 1 
teiaspoonful of mixed herbs ;' 2 sprigs parsley; 1 
tablespoonful of chopped onion;' 1 tablespoon- 
f nl butter ; 1 heaping tablespoonful of com 
starch; 1^ teaspoonful salt; % saltspoonful pep- 
per. Put the tomato, water, spices, herbs, and 



CASSEROLE J79 

parsley on to boil in dish, not tin or iron; fry 
the onion in the butter till yellow; add the corn 
starch, and stir all into the tomato. Simmer 
ten minutes; add Sjalt and pepper and a little 
cayenne pepper,' and strain the sauce over the 
meat. 



\ 

LESSON XVIII 

BEOILING 

Broiling is the process of cooking by placing 
the food over hot coals. The first essential is 
to see that the meat is frequently turned. This 
is to prevent- it from burning, which it will do 
if left too long in contact with the intense heat. 
The second point to regard is the nature of the 
fire. The coals should be bright red and the 
stove well filled so as to bring the coals close to 
the meat. Care must be taken that the coals are 
red, for if flame is present the smoke and va- 
pors impart a disagreeable flavor to the food. 
If a wood fire is being used, the wood should be 
hard wood, and should also be burned to a good 
bed of coals without flame. It is a great mis- 
take to attempt to kindle up a poor fire with 
wood and to broil over the flame, not only be- 
cause the fire is not hot enough, but the flame 
and smoke will give the meat an unpleasant 
flavor. As the fat melts and drips from the 
meat it will take fire and either burn or taint the 
meat. There are two ways of obviating this: 
Cut off most of the fat, not all, for a little will 

180 



BROILING m 



baste the meat, and then see that the damper of 
the stove is open so as to carry the odor and 
smoke up the chimney. 

Meat is best broiled upon the double wii'e 
broiler. Grease the wires with fat ti> prevent 
the meat from sticking to them. The process 
will demand one's entire attention. As the 
meat requires frequent and rapid turning, it 
will be necessary to handle the broiler a great 
deal and very quickly. Therefore the handle 
should be protected by a cloth, or towel. Well- 
broiled meat contains all of the juices. Badly 
broiled meat is leathery, tough and dry. Clearly, 
then, the juices must be retained. To do this 
the meat is not salted, for salt draws out the 
juices. It is exposed for ten seconds to the hot- 
test portion of the fire, turned quickly, and the 
other side treated in the same way. This has 
the effect of searing the meat, so as to close the 
pores on the two sides so that the juices cannot 
escape. If the meat is left longer than ten 
seconds at first, the heat will drive the juices to 
the top, and when the meat is turned over they 
will escape. If the fire is not hot enough, or if 
the meat is too far away from the coals, the 
searing will not be sufficient to harden the out- 
side and the juices will escape. After the juices 
have been driven to the middle of the meat, the 
subsequent heat causes thebi to evaporate in 



182 THE CCXDKING SCHOOL 

steam, and their expansion gives the meat the 
larger puffy look that well-broiled meats al- 
ways display. Consequently a good test for 
good broiling is to press the meat down with a 
knife point ; if it springs back to place it is well 
broiled. Badly broiled meat is shrunken and 
tough. It is a mistake to cut it to see if it is 
done, for that lets the juices escape. Four 
minutes for one-inch steak and six for one and 
one-half inch, over a hot fire, turning the meat 
every ten seconds, \p?11 give good results. In 
broiling there is one apparent contradiction. 
One would think that a small, thin piece of meat 
would require a slow fire or a distance from the' 
fire, and that a large, thick mece would require 
a hot fire and closeness to it. Just the reverse 
is the case. The smaller the article, the hotter 
the fire. 

The platter should be placed to heat before 
the broiling is begun, else the meat must be left 
to attend to it, and that is impossible if one 
wishes good results. \ 

In broiling chickens more time is required, 
' probably twenty minutes. It is a good plan to 
place them for a few minutes in a very hot 
oven before broiling. 

Buttered paper is a good thing to use to keep 
in the fat and juices and to keep out the smoke. 
Practice is necessary to handle this skilfully to 



BROILING S83 



keep the paper from burning, but care will ac- 
complish this. The paper ia white letter papeir 
of large' size. It is oiled with soft, butter well 
rubbed m^ The meat, such as chicken, chops, 
small birds^ or ifish, is wrapped, the edges of 
the paper 'turned in two or three; times j aad the 
ends well folded. It takes longer to broil with 
the paper than without it. When the paper is 
jwell browned the meat is don6. : 

Instead of using the double wire broiler, a 
hot frying-pan or spider niay be used. This 
is called pan-broiling. The pan is heated very 
hp*ti A little fat is used to prevent the meat 
fjrom sticking, but absolutely none is left on the 
pan. The meat is placed on the hot pan for ten 
seconds', then turned without a fork, and seared 
on the other side. It is broiled for four 
minutes, but turned only twice in that time, not 
so frequently as when broiled over the coals. 
This is not frying, because no fat is left in the 
pan. 

LESSON RECIPES FOR BROILING 
BROILED STEAK 

A thick tender steak, a double broiler, and a 
hot, clear bed of coals. Place the steak in the 
broiler and cook on one side ten seconds and 
turn. Eepeat this till the steak is done. If you 



J84 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

want it rare, three or four minutes will be suf- 
ficient. The number of times you turn must 
depend on whether you wish the steak rare or 
well done. Practice will soon determine this. 
Place the steak on a hot platter, cover with but- 
ter, season with salt and pepper, and serve hot. 
Or serve with maitre d 'hotel butter. If a gas 
stove is used, the broiler in the oven will be 
found quite equal to, if not superior to, the bed 
of coals. 

TIME-TABLE FOB BROILING 

One-inch steak, four to six minutes. Thicker 
than inch steak, six to twelve minutes. Thin 
fish, small, five to eight minutes. Thick fish, 
twelve to sixteen minutes. Chickens, twenty 
minutes. Chops, eight to twelve minutes. 



LESSON XIX 

BAKING 

This is the process of cooking in a close, 
heated oven. The essential difference between 
baking and roasting is that in the former proc- 
ess the air in the oven is unchanged through- 
out the entire time of cooking ; while in roasting 
there must be a current of air passing through 
the oven, taking the place of that air which 
passes off by ventilation. This difference, 
though slight, is essential. Yet the so-called 
" roasted " meat is most frequently only baked. 

There can be no comparison between the qual- 
ities of properly roasted meat and baked meat. 
In the latter process the outside of the meat is 
parched and hardened and the quality and 
flavor of the baked meat are much inferior to 
those of properly roasted meat. 

The essential principle in well-baked meat pr 
fish is to keep the juices within the article of 
food as far as possible. One step toward this 
is to put the meat in a pan with fat and without 
water, and place in the oven made as hot as pos- 
sible. The first few minutes in the hot oven will 
13 }85 



186 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

harden the outer surface and close the pores 
so that the juices will "be retained. If water is 
placed in the pan the heat can never rise 
above 212° — the temperature of boiling water, 
whereas the temperature foi* baking meat 
should be nearer 300°. After the hardening of 
the outer surface has taken place, water, may 
be added to keep the meat moist and supply 
liquid for frequent basting. The water will al^o 
serve to reduce the heat after the first step is 
taken!. 

The baking-pan should be raised above tlie 
surface of the bottom of the oven, because no 
heat is required there. If the dish is not pro- 
vided with legs or supports to so raise it, a tin 
pie-plate or inverted pan may be used for this 
purpose. It also serves to keep the flour. and 
fat from burning. 

As the baking proceeds, the meat is to be well 
basted every ten or fifteen minutes. A box, tie 
height of the bottom of the oven, from the floor, 
is very useful for sliding the pan out upon. 
While this is being done, the opening of ^ the 
oven doors allows the smoky odors to esc3,pe. 
If allowed to remain in the oven; they taint the 
cooking food with the pronounced baking odor 
so objectionable to a refined palate. 

After each basting the meat is tb be dredged 
with flour, salt, and pepper.' Salt has'the efEect 



BAKING fS7 



of drawing out the juices from meat, but as 
these mix with the flour, a hard paste is formed 
over the entire surface of the meat, which keeps 
them in. As the meat is. placed in the pan with 
the skin side down and the juices do not escape 
through it, there is no loss, as there would be 
if the meat were reversed. As the process nears 
complietion the meat is turned over, without the 
use of a fork, for the final browning. 

LESSON RECIPES FOE BAKING 
BAKED SALT MACKEREL 

Soak mackerel overnight, boil in water 
enough to cover, five or ten minutes; pour off 
water, put mackerel in pan, pour over it 1 ctip- 
f ul of sweet cream or rich milk, add a few lumps 
of butter, a little pepper, put in oven, and bake 
till brown. 

BAKEP PISH 

Have your fish dressed for baking, then make 
a stuffing of bread crumbs; 1 teaspoonful of 
sweet marjoram; V^ teaspoonfuls salt; 1 slice 
of fat salt pork, chopped fine ; pepper, and piece 
of butter size of large egg; 1 small onion. Mix 
this well together and stuff the fish. Either 
sew the fish together or sew a piece of cloth over 
the opening; place in the pan and lay slices of 
salt pork on the fish. Bai^e one hour. 



LESSON XX 
ROASTING 

Roasting is the process of cooking food be- 
fore a hot fire or in an oven well ventilated so 
that a current of air passes over and around the 
article which is being roasted. The term is 
properly applied to cooking before a fire upon 
a spit. But this method is possible only in large 
establishments ; and the term is now generally 
applied to the cooking in a pan in a well-venti- 
lated oven, such as is provided in all good 
ranges. If there is no ventilation and the pan 
is covered, the process is not roasting, but 
baking. 

The fire must be very hot and of suflScient 
quantity to last throughout the process without 
replenishing. The pan in which the meat is 
placed must be provided with a rack so that the 
meat does not rest upon the bottom of the pan, 
but is supported a little above it. The meat 
should first be properly fastened with skewers. 
If it is a sirloin, and there is a piece of the 
flank attached, cut it off and keep it for soup. 
If, however, it is required for use, fasten it by 

188 



ROASTING S89 

turning it under the roast. If the meat is 
very lean, put a little dripping in the pan. If 
the meat has fat upon it, this will not be neces- 
sary. The fire should be very hot when the 
meat is first put in the oven. The first step in 
the process is the melting of the fat upon the 
meat. Then the great heat closes the pores of 
the meat and hardens the outer albumen, which 
keeps in the juices of the meat, and causes it 
to roast well. -The meat should be place m the 
pan with the skin side down, as this exposes the 
lean parts of the meat to the action of the fire 
first. After the process has gone on long 
enough to close the pores of the meat, the fire 
is to be regulated and lessened so that the iur 
terior of the meat may be well enough cooked 
before the outside burns. When the outside 
has hardened, the interior of the meat is prac- 
tically steamed in its own juices. If a slow fire 
is used, it will be found that the juices of the 
meat will be converted into steam and will evap- 
orate, leaving the meat very dry. As the 
greater part of the meat is water, a poorly 
cooked piece of meat will shrink greatly in the 
cooking. This, then, may be taken as a sort 
of test of the kind of cooking the meat has had. 
The loss of juices is in a measure supplied by 
the process of basting. This consists of pour- 
ing back over the meat the fat and juices which 



190 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

collect as dripping in the pan. This basting 
serves also to cover the meat with a coating of 
fat, which aids in keeping in the juices. The 
meat must, of course, be turned; frequently, so 
as to expose all parts of it to the action of the 
fire. The meat is also to be dredged twice with 
pepper and salt. When the meat is nearly 
cooked, flour is to be added, to make with the 
fat and juices a brown gravy. Should there be 
any d, iger of this burning, the addition of a 
little water will prevent it. 

Allow ten minutes to the pound if it is to be 
rare, and fifteen if well done. If the roast is 
thin such as ribs, it will require a less time than 
a compact rump roast, and a large rump roa,st 
will take a relatively longer time than will a 
small one. 

In a rib-roast the ribs and backbone are re- 
moved, and the roast is tied or skewered into a 
compact round form. This will take a longer 
time to cook than if the bones were left in; but 
it cooks and carves much better. 

LESSQN RECIPES FOR ROASTING 
EOAST BEEF 

A steady, moderate fire is required, to start 
withj to roast beef properly. After the meat- 
is thoroughly warmed the oven should be made 
hotter. 



ROASTING m 



The first thing is to sear the surface of the 
roast in order to keep in all the juices. To 
do this, you must proceed as follows: 

"Place the roast with the skin-part on t6p 
into your pan and pour a couple of cups- of 
slightly salted boiling water over it. Then 
close the oven and leave it closed for about 
twenty minutes. Then baste it all over by tak- 
ing a loilg-handied spoon and wetting every 
part thoroughly with the salted water in the 
bottom of the pan. This should be repeated 
every fifteen minutes. Time for roasting is 
twelve minutes for each pound. 

A few don 'ts and rules will help the pupil to 
acquire the knack of doing a roast just; prop-, 
erly. ;•- , , 

When basting don't hold the oven door wide- 
open. Open it only enough, ito allow yourself 
to reach in and easily " baste " it. 

If one side of the roast browns more quickly 
than the other, turn the pan in the oven. 

If the water dries up before it is sufficiently 
done, add another cupful of hot water from the 
kettle. 

When more than half done sift a little flour 
over the roast, leaving it in the oven. Let this 
brown before renewing the basting operation, 
and then proceed as before. 

About five minutes later rub a teaspoonful of 



192 THE COOKING SOiOOL 

butter over the top of tlie meat. This will, if 
your oven is right, cause a brown froth to cover 
the roast. 

When done place on a heated platter, and 
keep warm. 

GBAVY 

Scrape the sides and bottom of the meat-pan 
and gather the browned flour towards the cen- 
tre. If there is not enough, sift a little more 
flour into it. Also add a little more hot water, 
if necessary. Then stir until you have a thick 
gravy. Add salt and pepper to suit the taste. 

Mutton is roasted the same way as beef. 
Currant jelly generally takes the place of gravy. 
Lamb is roasted two minutes less to the pound 
than beef. Mint sauce is generally served in 
place of gravy. Roast veal must be cooked 
twice as long as lamb or beef. 



LESSON XXI 

STEAMING 

This is a process of cookery which is particu- 
larly adapted to very delicate preparations. It 
is sometimes carried on upon a large scale, and 
then an apparatus for the special purpose is 
provided. In ordinary kitchens, and for every- 
day dishes, a kitchen steamer will be all that is 
required. The article of food which is to be 
steamed should be prepared as for boiling. It 
should then be placed in a steamer, which has a 
closely fitting lid, over a saucepan containing 
boiling water, and this water should be kept 
boiling, and should be replenished as it boils 
away. When any delicate preparation is to be 
steamed, the cook should on no account boil 
anything strong and highly flavored in the ves- 
sel under it. For instance, liquor containing 
vegetables must not be boiled under a pudding, 
or the flavor of the latter will be entirely spoilt. 
If a proper steamer should not be at hand, a 
substitute may be improvised for steaming pud- 
dings, etc., as follows : Turn a plate upside down 
in a saucepan, and surround it with about three 

J93 



194 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

inches of fast-boiling water. Place the mould 
containing the pudding on the plate, cover the 
saucepan closely, and keep the water gently boil- 
ing round it. Lay a round of oiled paper on 
the top of the mould. This process is especially 
adapted for tough meats, fruit cakes, hams, etc. 
It involves more time than boiling. Many of 
the vegetables such as squash, corn, beans, peas, 
and cucumbers may^ be 'treated hy this method. 
There is no danger of burning, if this rhethbd is 
used for cooking cereals or making custards. 

LESSON RECIPES FOR STEAMING 
OATMEAL 

Take % cupful of oatnieal, 2 cupfuls of boil- 
ing water, and a half teaspoonful of salt. Go 
over the meal carefully to see that there is no 
foreign substance, then put in with the salt and 
water into the upper part of your steamer. Put 
the upper part of steamer over the fire, stir- 
ring the contents with a fork. When it has 
boiled for ten minutes, put it over boiling water 
in the lower part of your "steamer" and cook 
for one hour. , . 

BOILED CUSTAED 

Icupful scalde(imilk; 1 teaspoonful of sugar; 
1 egg, and of flavoring 1/2 teaspoonful. . , , , , 
First beat the egg iiatil frothy, then add to 



STEAMING J95 



it the sugar and a pinch of salt. After mixing 
well, add the scalded milk and put over boiling 
water. Stir until it thickens. Then strain, and 
when it is cool put in the flavoring. 

■ i •: • . , STEAMED APPLES ; ^ 

Wipe, core, and pare sufficient apples. Then 
place them in a steamer, and steam until they 
are soft. 

STEAMED POTATOES 

Take a. suificient quantity^ of potatoes ; wash 
and pare them. Put them into your steamer, 
and let them cook until they are soft. 



LESSON XXII 
' MIXING BATTERS AND FEITTERS 

Floue and a liquid are miled in the propor- 
tion of rather more of the flour than of the 
liquid. If a cup is used as the basis of measure- 
ment, a cupful of flour would be used to rather 
less than a cupful of liquid. It is not suf- 
ficient to merely put the flour and the liquid 
together. If baked in this way, the product 
would be heavy and solid and hard. It is 
necessary to make it light; and this is done 
either by stirring or beating. The effect of 
this treatment is to mix in bubbles of air. 
Sometimes soda is used to generate bubbles of 
gas. The mixture then must be cooked quickly 
before the air or gas has time to escape. In a 
cooked mixture the air or gas spaces are larger 
than when it was in the state of batter. This is 
because the air at the ordinary temperature oc- 
cupies about one-third the space to which it 
will expand when heated in the oven while the 
mixture is cooking. 

It is of the greatest importance to see, before 
the batter is mixed, that the fire is in a suffi- 

196 



MIXING BATTERS AND FRITTERS 197 



ciently good condition to bake the batter 
quickly, else it will be heavy and unfit for food. 
It is also necessary to have the pans ready, so 
that no fatal delay occurs. Have this all seen 
to before beginning to mix. 

"We stir to mix intimately two or more ma- 
terials. If the matter used be dry, stir round 
and round in the mixing bowl until the ingredi- 
ents cannot be distinguished from each other. 
If a liquid is stirred into a dry ingredient, do 
not put all the liquid in at once, but add it 
slowly and at intervals, stirring slowly so as to 
avoid spattering. Slow addition of the liquid 
will prevent the mixture from being too thin. 
Do not stir with the edge or the tip of the spoon 
alone; the bowl of the spoon is most effective 

in stirring, because it breaks up the lumps and 
makes a smooth batter, which is the desired re- 
sult. A mixture of flour and water makes a 
thickening for sauces or gravies. Flour, butter, 
and milk form a sauce when stirred and cooked 
together. 

Eggs, doughs, and batters are beaten, not 

stirred. The object is to make them light, and 

to introduce bubbles of air ; these are held more 

firmly by the albumen of the egg and the gluten 

of the flour, which are sticky substances. So 

long as we beat rapidly the bubbles form and 

remain; but if we beat and stir together, the 

stirring motion breaks down all of; the bubbles 



J98 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



formed by the beating. The mixing bowl is 
tipped over to the side and the spoon is carried 
through the mixture from side to side and 
reaching the bottom of the bowl at each strok^. 

It has been said before that the fire must be 
hot for cooking batters; But if it is too hot, the 
bubbles of air are too suddenly and violently ex- 
panded so as to break through the mixture and 
escape. As a consequence the mixture falls 
and becomes heavy. 

Batters are cooked in well-greased vessels. 
The fat heats very quickly and rapidly cooks 
the outside, forming a crust. By a well-greased 
griddle is meant one in whiieh the fat is evenly 
distributed over the surface. It does not mean 
the use of a great quantity of fat. Care should 
be taken not to use more fat than 'is required. 
If eggs and butter are used in a thin batter, 
much fat will be needed. If more fat than is 
necessary be used it is absorbed by the food, 
which is thereby rendered unwholesome. 

LESSON RECIPES FOR MIXING 
GBIDDLE CAKES 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder; 1 cupful flour; 
14 teaspoonful salt; 1 cupful milk, scant; 1 egg; 
% teaspoonful butter, melted. 

Sift the baking powder, salt, and flour to- 



MIXING BATTERS AND FRITTERS I?> 

gether. into a bowl. Beat thq egg, add the milk 
to it, and stir it gradually into the dry in- 
gredients, to make at smooth batter. If the 
butter is used, melt it, cool it, and stir it into 
the batter. Scrape it into a pitcher, or dip it 
from the bowl with a tablespoon, to form 
round cakes. Place an iron or soapstone grid- 
dle over the' fire, grease it with a little dripping. 
When the fat begins to smoke, pour on a little 
of the batter from the pitcher or dip it out with 
a tablespoon. Put on the griddle about seven 
Cakes, if the utensil is large enough. When 
the Cakes are full of bubbles^ turn them over 
with a brosid knife, so that both sides may be 
brown. Serve on hot plates with syrup; or but- 
ter and sugar, or place them in layers with but- 
ter, sugar, and cinnamon between, and cut like 
a pie: 

By using % cupful of corn meal, rye, Graham, 
or bread crumbs, instead of % cup of the flour^ 
in this recipe, varieties of griddle cajjes may 
be made. By adding to this recipe % cup cold 
boiled rice, hominy, wheatena, oatmeal, or 
canned corn, still farther variations may be de- 
veloped. 

POPOVBES 

1^ teaspoonful salt; 1 cupful flour; 1 cupful 
milk; 1 egg. 
Sift the flour and salt into a bowl. Beat the 



200 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



egg, add the milk to it, and stir gradually into 
the flour to make a smooth batter. Beat with an 
egg-beater until full of air-bubbles. Fill hot, 
grieased gem-pans two-thirds full. Bake on low- 
er shelf of a quick oven, until brown and pop- 
ped over. Break one open to see if it is firm, and 
not doughy. Serve hot with butter, as a break- 
fast muffin. By adding % teaspoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful sugar, and a sprinkle of grated 
nutmeg, the popovers are eaten as sweetened 
tea-muffins. They can be served with a hot 
pudding sauce, as a dessert, and are then called 
German puffs. When they puff up, a hollow 
space is usually left in the centre. This may be 
filled with a thickened custard, and they will 
make very good cream puffs. 

CBEAM FILLING 

1 cupful milk, scalded ; 1 egg ; 1 tablespoonful 
sugar, sprinkle salt; 1 tablespoonful corn 
starch; sprinlde nutmeg, or i/4 teaspoonful 
flavoring. 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt, pour 
into the mixture 1 tablespoonful of cold milk. 
Stir into the corn starch to make a smooth paste 
Pour in the scalded milk, and stir it well. Cook 
the mixture in the double boiler, stirring con- 
stantly for ten minutes. Put the cuetard (when 
qpld) into the popovers, or into cream puffs. 



MIXING BATTERS AN D FRITTERS 20t 

CARAMEL SYRUP 

Put 1 cupful granulated sugar into a frying- 
pan. Stir it over a moderate fire until it is 
melted into a light-brown liquid. Eemove from 
the fire and pour into it % cupful of boiling 
water. Heat and stir until tlie water melts the 
clear, hard candy. Pour into a pitcher, and 

serve hot or cold with griddle cakes. 
H 



LESSON XXIII 
LAEDING, BLANCHING, BONING 

LARDING 

Lauding is performed by introducing fat 
strips of meat, ham, and bacon into poultry and 
meats wMcb are naturally dry and devoid of 
flavor. The meats which are usually so treated 
are turkey, rabbits, veal, and chickens. The lard- 
ing meat is cut into thin strips and is inserted 
at intervals of about an inch in the breast of the 
fowl or over the surface of the meat, by means 
of a larding needle. This is a short, thick needle 
with an opening or slit, controlled by a spring, 
into which the strips of bacon are inserted. 
They are practically sewed into the meat. A 
portion of the meat to be larded is pinched up 
and the needle forced through. When the strip 
of bacon is forced through by the needle the 
charge of larding meat is released from the 
needle. Then the needle is withdrawn. Under 
the heat of the fire the fat tries out and bastes 
the fowl, rendering the meat juicy, and at the 
same time imparting a flavor. Meat when so 
treated is described on the menu as pique. 

202 



LARDING, ELANCHiNG, BONING 203 

BLANCHING 

To blanch meat or vegetables is to plunge 
tbem into boiling water for a given length of 
time, generally two or three minutes; then 
throw them into a bowl of spring water and 
leave them until cold. With meat this is done 
for the purpose of giving firmness to the flesh, 
and thus facilitating the operation of larding, 
and also to preserve the whiteness of certain 
meats, such as rabbits or fowls. With vege- 
tables it is done to keep them green, and to 
take away their acrid flavor. Ox tongues 
and almonds, fruit kernels, etc., are said 
to be blanched, when through the action of hot 
water the skin can be easily peeled off; calves' 
heads and feet are blanched to soften them, and 
thus make them easier to trim. 

BONING 

This is a method of treating fowl so as to re- 
move the bone, or carcass, from the flesh, and 
yet to leave the flesh in its original form. 

To those to whom even carving is a hardship 
this may seem a difficult task. 

In boning a chicken, make an incision from 
the neck to the rump of the fowl, down the 
back ; cut the neck off short ; take out the 
crop ; pull the skiu well back to the wings ; dis- 



204 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

joint the wings under the skin; clear the whole 
body down to the legs; draw back the legs so 
as to expose the joints and cut the ligaments; 
peel the flesh-skin off to the tail ; cut through the 
' ' tail piece ' ' inside of the skin ; and then turn 
the carcass out. The shape of the fowl is then 
preserved by proper stuffing. 
Other fowl are boned in the same way. • 

LESSON RECIPE FOR BONING 
BONED SHOXTLDEE OF VEAL 

Place a clean cloth upon the table, and upon 
this lay the veal, skin side down. A sharp, 
strong knife is needed. Cut off the flesh on the 
inner side nearly down to the blade-bone; de- 
tach the edge of this first ; then work the knife 
under it, keeping close to it. Care must be used 
not to pierce the outer skin. When the bone is 
separated from the flesh in all parts, disjoint 
it with the knife, and withdraw it. Then take 
out the second joint in the same way. With a 
little practice the two parts of the bone may 
be withdrawn without separating them. The 
knuckle-bone is, of course, left in. The greatest 
care is required that during the operation the 
outer skin be not pierced or broken. The meat 
is then ready for stuffing. 



LESSON XXIV 
BEVERAGES 

COFFEE, TEA, AND COCOA 

Beverages are made and used for the purpose 
of quenching the thirst ; and whether it be tea, 
coffee, chocolate, or any other beverage, it 
is really the water contained in them which 
quenches the thirst. Therefore, pure water is 
best adapted to quenching the thirst. 

LESSON RECIPES FOR BEVERAGES 

COFFEE 

The coffee bean or berry is the seed of the 
coffee plant, which grows in tropical countries. 
It contains tannin and theine (called caffeine in 
coffee) ; the caffeine acts as a pleasant and stim- 
ulating tonic : the tannin is inclined to interfere 
with the digestion if taken in too large quanti- 
ties. The flavor and odor of coffee come from 
the oils contained therein. Coffee of moderate 
strength seems not to be harmful to any great 
extent to adult persons, when taken in reason- 
able quantities, but should not be given to chil- 

205 



206 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



dren, because it -prevents the bodily tissues 
from wearing out. to a certain extent, and chil- 
dren, who are growing, require a constant 
renewal of all parts of their systems. It stimu- 
lates the nerves and relieves fatigue. Much of 
the prevalent bad health comes from the exces- 
sive use of coffee. There are many good sub- 
stitutes for coffee, made of various roasted 
grains, which, while not so powerful in their 
tonic effects, supply an ample beverage, and are 
harmless to children, and wholesome. 

Coffee should be purchased roasted, but un- 
ground; and should be ground as used, as it 
loses its flavor very rapidly after bteing ground. 
It should always be kept in an air-tight recep- 
tacle. The coffee-pot should be thoroughly 
cleaned and scoured each time after it has been 
used. For the black after-dinner or filtered 
coffee have it powdered. It should be finely 
ground when making boiled coffee. 

To make good boiled coffee use 1 tablespoon- 
ful of coffee to each cup of boiling water, regu- 
lating this by the number of ^ups desired. Put 
the coffee into the pot; pour the water in, and 
let it come to boiling point. Then stir into it a 
slightly beaten egg ; boil for one minute, and set 
on a part of the stove where it will keep per- 
fectly hot witho.ut boiling. 



BEVERAGES 207 

HOW TO MAKE AFTEB-DINNEB -COFFEE 

For this purpose a French coffee-pot is best. 
The coffee, to be strong, should be in the sanie 
proportions — '1 tablespoonful o^f coffee to each 
cup of boiling water. After putting the coffee 
into the filter, pour over it into the pot the boil- 
ing water. Put the pot in hot water and when 
the water has all filtered through, pour it into 
the filter again. 

TEA 

The. principal value of tea is the one sub- 
stance contained in it — theine : this is stimula,t- 
ing and pleasant, when not taken in excess and 
when the tea is made right. Tea also contains 
tannin, a bitter substance used for ink-making, 
and also for tanning leather. 

Hoiv to Make Good Tea. — ^Use only good tea; 
it is expensive, but cheap teas are likely to be 
adulterated, and good tea is economical in the 
end. It should be kept in an air-tight canister 
or jar, otherwise it will rapidly lose its flavor. 
Use only a china, earthen, or silver teapot. Boil 
the water quickly and use it only at that point 
and in a hot teapot. It should be steeped about 
five minutes. You should never allow it to 
boil. 

Take from 1 to 3 teaspoonfuls of tea to 2 cup- 
fuls of boiling water. Scald the pot first, and 



208 THE CXXDKING SCHOOL 

when you have the water boiling, put the tea 
into the pot and let it steep for three to five 
minutes. If you find it too strong, you can 
weaken it by adding hot water, but in doing this 
the water should be almost at the boiling point. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 

Cocoa and chocolate are products of the seeds 
of the cocao tree, which grows in the tropi- 
cal countries of America. Cocoa for our break- 
fast beverage is produced by extracting, under 
powerful pressure applied to cracked , cocoa 
beans, the greater percentage of its fatty sub- 
stances, and then powdering. The fat so se- 
cured is cocoa butter. Cocoa differs from tea 
and coffee as a beverage in that with the former 
we drink the powdered product itself, while in 
the case of tea and coffee we leave the leaves 
and grounds at the bottom of the pot. 

BREAKFAST COCOA 

For this we need 1 pint of scalded milk; 1 
piut of boiling water ; 2 tablespoonfuls of pre- 
pared cocoa; from 2 to 4 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Mix the cocoa and sugar, then gradu- 
ally stir in the water and let it boil for five 
minutes, then put in the milk, and cook for five 
minutes more. Beat with an egg-beater. 



LESSON XXV 
VEGETABLES 

Potatoes contain a very large proportion of 
water. Tlie solid part is only about one-quar- 
ter of the bulk of tbe potato and is largely 
starch, with a small quantity of albumen and 
salts held in solution in the water. There is 
very little starch in new potatoes. Starch is 
not formed until the potatoes ripen. 

The chief point to be observed in cooking 
potatoes, and indeed all vegetables, in water, is 
to see that as little as possible of the nutritious 
elements are lost in the process. In the case of 
potatoes there is much difference of opinion as 
to whether or not they should be pared before 
cooking. There is no doubt that it is much 
more convenient to peel them when hard and 
cold than when soft and hot. Besides, they are 
more easily and daintily served. But some con- 
tend that there is a quantity of earthy matter 
or salts immediately under the skin, which is 
lost in pariag. 

If a potato is boiled without paring at all, 
the starch grains swell and the skin of the po- 

209 



210 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

tato bursts. For this reason a circle of the skin 
is pared even when they are cooked with their 
jackets on. As potatoes are subject to disease, 
the affected parts are more easily removed by 
paring before cooking, and this prevents the ab- 
sorption of bitter juices during the process. 
The salts which are lost in cooking the pota- 
toes when pared are supplied in the form of 
salads, green vegetables, and fruits. If pota- 
toes are not pared before cooking, they must be 
well scrubbed, so that no earthy matter may 
adhere. When the potatoes are new, the skin 
is removed by scraping instead of paring. 

After the potatoes are pared they must 
either be put on at once, or, if it is necessary to 
keep them standing, they must be covered with 
water. Pared potatoes left without water turn 
brown by reason of the action of the oxygen of 
the air upon them. 

They must be put on in boiling water, because 
cold water has the power of extracting the al- 
bumen and other nutritious matter, while boil- 
ing water hardens the albumen cells and no 
matter is lost. The water ought not to boil 
violently, for that will cause the potatoes to 
burst and break up. 

Salt is added not to give the potatoes a flavor, 
for that is best done at the table to suit the 
varying individual tastes, but salt raises the 



VEGETABLES 2Jl 

boiling point of the water. This means that 
salt water gets hotter than fresh water before 
it boils. Consequently it reduces the danger of 
loss of salts and other matter. 

As soon as a fork passes easily through the 
potatoes they must be taken up at once. Then 
they are drained, and the cover must be left 
off, for much water remains in the form of 
steam and must pass off in that form, else, when 
the vessel cools, the steam will condense into 
water and the potatoes will be wet instead of 
dry and mealy. 

Potatoes must be selected nearly of one size 
to produce uniformity in cooking. It takes 
large potatoes longer to cook than small ones ; 
so, if the potatoes are not nearly of equal size, 
the small ones will be overdone while waiting 
for the larger ones to cook. A large potato 
may be cut in two to make it cook more quickly. 

All vegetables should be washed very quickly, 
as the cold water will, if allowed to act long 
upon them, extract valuable nutritious ingredi- 
ents. 

The following vegetables should be well 
scrubbed before preparing : Potatoes, parsnips, 
carrots, turnips. 

Beets are to be washed carefully, so that the 
outer coat be not broken. They are full of sugary 
juice, which escapes if the skin be broken. For 



2J2 THE COOiaNG SCHOOL 

th.e same reason, the tops are not cut off too 
closely before cooking. In selecting beets, do 
not accept any that are not fresh. The same 
rule applies to all vegetables. Do not take them 
if they are shrivelled or wilted. If such must 
be used, putting them for a little while in cold 
water will freshen them. There are several va- 
rieties of table beet, which differ very much in 
size, color, shape, and sweetness. The small 
red and the long yellow are the best varieties. 

When the beet is cooked, it is only necessary 
to cut off the skin, not to peel the beet. If the 
beets are young and small, slice them length- 
wise ; if large, slice them round. Hot beets are 
not healthy, if eaten in large quantities. They 
should be served cold, in vinegar. 

Parsnips have the advantage not only of 
being wholesome and nourishing, but are in 
season both summer and winter. In the spring 
months, when other vegetables are scarce, pars- 
nips are plentiful. As they are biennials they 
are left in the ground during the winter, even 
in the most severe climates, and are dug in the 
spring. Great care must be taken in cleaning 
and preparing parsnips for cooking. The flesh 
is very white, but darkens on boiling. Every 
particle of speck or blemish must be removed 
by scrubbing and cutting, and the fine roots 
must be trimmed off. Parsnips take from 



VEGETABLES 2J3 

twenty mimites to one lionr to cook, according 
to the season of the year and the size of the 
vegetable. All vegetables take longer to cook 
in winter than in summer. If the parsnips are 
small, they may be cooked whole; but if large, 
they must be sliced down the middle. 

Carrots must be scrubbed, and the outer skin 
scraped off. They take from one to two hours 
to cook. 

Turnips should be first scrubbed, then sliced 
and pared. Select only medium-sized turnips, 
as the larger ones are more likely to be spongy 
or woody. 

Small young turnips require from fifteen to 
twenty minutes in cooking; large ones up to a 
full hour. 

Cabbage requires great care in preparation, 
as it- ia the home of insects and worms. They 
are best removed by cutting off the outer leaves 
and soaking the inverted head in cold water. 
It is then cut in quarters and boiled. Cabbage 
takes about forty minutes to boil. It must be 
thoroughly done, for imperfectly boiled cabbage 
deranges the stomach and causes flatulency. 
It is of doubtful value as nourishment, but is a 
pleasing addition to a meal. 

Cauliflower may be treated the same as cab- 
bage in its preparation. 

Celery must be separated, thoroughly washed, 



214 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

and all rusty parts scraped off. The heart is 
the best of the stalk; the outer portions are 
tough and stringy. The tops, when green, are 
of value for garnishing, and for seasoning soup 
when green or dried. No green parts must be 
served. After cleaning it is best kept in cool 
water, to preserve its crispness until served. 
When used for salad, the pieces must be wiped 
dry. Spinach is a type of greens. It must be 
carefully picked over and washed in several 
waters. This is necessary to remove the par- 
ticles of sand and grit. As it is a low-growing 
plant, heavy rains splash the leaves with earth 
and sand from the garden, and the heat of the 
sun afterwards drieS it on, so that there is great 
difficulty in washing it clean. Unless all is 
removed before cooking, the dish is ruined. 
After boiling until it is thoroughly tender, the 
spinach is drained and the water pressed out 
so as to leave it as dry as possible. 

Onions are prepared by peeling so as to re- 
move all of the dried or withered parts, and then 
soaking in cold water to remove the excessive 
strength, or other objectionable qualities. 

Green corn is prepared by husking, but is 
not to be washed. Care must be taken to re- 
move every particle of corn silk, for while it 
is not objectionable in itself it is horribly 
suggestive of hairs. Corn should be pro- 



VEGETABLES 2J5 

cured as fresh as possible, for even on the 
second day after picking it loses much of its 
flavor and becomes hard to digest. It takes 
from ten to twenty minutes to cook, according 
to size and age. 

Peas and beans are to be shelled and washed 
very quickly. Care must be taken to discard 
the wormy or rusty portion of these. String 
beans are prepared by breaking off both ends, 
removing the strings, and cutting or breaking 
the bean into short pieces. After cooking until 
quite tender, which takes from forty to sixty 
minutes, they are well drained and seasoned. 

Asparagus is simply prepared by cutting off 
the lower part of the stalk, which is tough; 
though this may be saved as an agreeable sea- 
soning to soup. The asparagus is then soaked 
in water for about a quarter of an hour. Then 
it is tied in a loose bundle, using a soft string, 
so as not to cut through the tender sprouts. 
About twenty minutes will suffice for cooking 
asparagus, if it is tender. 

LESSON RECIPES FOE VEGETABLES 
BAKED POTATOES 

Choose potatoes of the same size. Put them 
into cold water, and scrub thoroughly with a 
s^all vegetable brush. Cut out any black por- 



216 THE COOKING SC HOOL 

tions. Lay them on the grate of a hot oven, 
and bake them until soft. Try, by taking hold 
of one with an oven towel, and pressing it in 
the hand. A small potato usually reqtiires 
twenty minutes, a medium-sized one thirty 
minutes, and a large one forty minutes. When 
done, crack each one open a little in the centre, 
to let the steam escape, and serve in a hot dish, 
covered only by a folded napkin. If any are 
left from the meal, peel them at once, so that 
-they may not become watery or have an un- 
pleasant taste. 

CBOUTONS 

Cut stale bread in slices one-half inch thick. 
Cut off the crusts, and divide the slices into 
one-half inch cubes. Place them on a tin sheet, 
and bake them until golden brown. Serve with 
soups and stews, or as a substitute for sliced 
toast. 

BEEAD CRUMBS 

Break stale bread into >small pieces, put then! 
into a shallow pan, and set it in a moderate 
oven. When thoroughly dry, roll or pound the 
bread to a fine powder. If wished very fine, 
sift, and roll coarse crumbs a second time. The 
crumbs are used in making stuffings for meats, 
in puddings and griddle cakes, and in covering 
fried food, such as oysters. 



VEGETABLES 2J7 



SOUTHERN SWEET POTATOES 

Cut cold cooked sweet potatoes into slices, 
and put them in an earthen dish. Spread each 
layer with hutter, sprinkle slightly with sugar, 
and bake until hot and slightly browned. 

BEOWN POTATO BALLS 

Mash and season cold baked or boiled pota- 
toes, or use cold mashed potato. Roll the 
potato mixture into balls, or pat into flat cakes. 
Place on a buttered tin, put a small piece of 
butter on top of each, and bake on the grate of 
a hot oven until golden-brown. 

SUEPBISE BALLS 

Eoll the potato balls as above, and with a tea- 
spoon press a hollow in the top. Chop fine 
some cold, lean meat, season it with salt and 
pepper, and put 1 teaspoonful of the meat into 
the hollow of the potato ball. Put a little but- 
ter on the top of each ball, and brown in the 
oven on the grate. 

CEEAMED POTATOES 

4 cold potatoes ; % cupfui milk ; sprinkle pep- 
per ; % teaspoonful salt ; 1 tablespoonful butter. 
Cut the potatoes into cubes or thin slices. 

Put, with the milk, into a pan or double boiler, 

I? 



218 THE COOKIN G SCHOOL 

and cook until they have absorbed nearly all the 
milk. Add the butter and seasoning, cook five 
minutes longer, and serve hot. 

If desired, 1 tablespoonful parsley, chopped 
fine, may be added with the seasoning. 

BOILED BEANS OE PEAS 

Choose fresh, green beans or peas. Put 
them into a kettle with a very small quantity of 
boiling water — just enough to keep them from 
burning. Boil until they are soft. Remove 
from the fire ; and, to 1 quart of the vegetables, 
add 1 tablespoonful butter, a sprinkle of pep- 
per, and a little salt, if necessary. Serve in a 
hot dish. 

BOILED CABBAGE 

Wash the cabbage in cold water, trim off the 
limp outside leaves, cut into eight pieces, or, if 
it must be cooked quickly, chop it into smaller 
pieces. Put it into a kettle a,nd cover with boil- 
ing watet, allowing 1 teaspoonful salt to each 
quart of water. Do npt cover the kettle, and 
there will be very little of the cabbage odor in 
the house. A young cabbage requires about 
forty-five minutes to cook. When tender, 
drain it well. The water may be changed once 
or more, adding fresh boiling salted water, in 
order to diminish the odor. 

When the cabbage is done the water may be 



VEGETABLES 219 

drained off, and a little milk, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, and a sprinkle of 
pepper added. Boil up once, and serve. 

Vinegar is generally placed on the table with 
boiled cabbage. Many persons like cabbage 
boiled in the water in which corned beef or ham 
has been cooked. 

BOILED ONIONS 

Put the onions mto a pan of cold water, and 
holding them un le . the water, peel them. Put 
them into boiling water with 1 teaspoonful salt 
to 1 quart water. After cooking five minutes 
change the water, and after ten minutes more, 
change it again. Boil until tender. They usu- 
ally require one-half hour to become soft. 
Pour off the water, add milk enough to cover 
them, and boil five or ten minutes longer. To 6 
onions add 1 teaspoonful butter, % teaspoonful 
salt, sprinkle pepper. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes and let 
them stand a moment. Remove, pour cold , 
water over them, peel off the skins, and cut out 
the green stem. Cut into slices, put into an 
uncovered agate saucepan and cook fifteen min- 
utes, or until they are soft and the juice is 
partly boiled away. To six tomatoes of me- 



220 THE CCX)KING SCHOOL 

dium size add 14 teaspoonful salt ; i/^ teaspoon- 
ful sugar; 1 teaspoonful butter; sprinkle pep- 
per, and, if desired, i/4 cup fine cracker or bread 
crumbs. Boil the mixture up once. Canned 
tomatoes may be cooked in the same way, until 
thoroughly soft. To 1 pint of canned tomatoes, 
add the seasoning mentioned above. 

BOILED BEETS 

Scrub the beets without breaking the roots. 
Boil until they can be eas y pierced with a 
skewer. When done dip into cold water, take 
out, rub off the skin, and cut off the tops and 
roots, and slice. Sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, and pour on melted butter, and serve. Al- 
ways boil beets separately from any other food, 
on account of their color. 

BOILED TUBNIPS 

Scrub the turnips, and pare off the thick skin. 
Cut in slices or quarters, and cook in boiling 
salted water until soft. Mash fine, and, with a 
wooden masher, press them in a fine strainer, 
or in a piece of coarse cheesecloth, to remove 
the water. To 1 pint of mashed turnips, add 1 
tablespoonful butter, % teaspoonful salt, a 
sprinkle pepper. Serve in a hot dish. A few 
boiled potatoes are sometimes mashed with tur- 
nips to make them dry. 



VEGETABLES 22J 

CABKOTS 

Scrub, and scrape off a very thin skin. Cut 
each carrot into three or four pieces of equal 
size, and cook in boiling salted water until soft. 

PARSNIPS 

Scrub, scrape off a thin skin, cut each parsnip 
into quarters lengthwise, and cook in boiling 
salted water, from thirty to forty-five minutes, 
until soft. Place in a dish, and pour a white 
sauce over them, or serve with vinegar on the 
table. They may be buttered after > boiling, 
placed in the oven, and baked a golden-brown. 

DEIED BEANS AND PEAS 

Pick them over and remove specks, pebbles, or 
wormy beans or peas. Soak in cold water over- 
night. In the morning pour off the water, add 
fresh cold water, and set on the back of the 
stove to heat slowly, and simmer until soft. If 
desired to use as soup, they may be boiled, after 
becoming soft, until they fall to pieces, and 
form a soft, pulpy mass. Split peas need to be 
soaked only one-half hour before simmering. 

SPINACH 

Pick off the roots and decayed leaves; wash 
thoroughly in three ,or four waters. Put the 



222 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

spinach in a larga kettle, without water. Put 
it on the stove where it will cook slowly until 
some of the juice is drawn out, then boil until 
tender. Drain and chop if liked. To % peck 
of spinach add 1 tablespoonful butter; % tea- 
spoonful salt, and 1 sprinkle pepper. Heat 
again. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 

SOME RULES FOE COOKING VEGETABLES 

It is not necessary to soak fresh vegetables in 
cold water, and they should be cooked as soon 
as prepared. Wilted vegetables can be fresh- 
ened by soaking in cold water. 

For green vegetables use salted boiling water. 
They should be cooked rapidly. Time required 
for boiling depends upon the condition of the 
article. 

When boiling such green vegetables as corn, 
peas, beans, celery, asparagus, and spinach, use 
as little water as you can. Only leave enough 
to moisten well. This saves a good deal of the 
matter which dissolves in water. 

Cabbage and cauliflower should be boiled in 
an open kettle. A little soda is necessary. 

With all other vegetables, excepting onions, 
which should be scalded and the water changed 
twice, they should be cooked in just enough 
water to cover, and drained thoroughly after 
cooking. 



VEGETABLES 223 

The conunon vegetables are prepared for 
cooking in the following manner : 

Potatoes should be scrubbed, washed, and 
pared. 

■ Beets should be washed without breaking the 
skin, to retain the juices. 

Carrots, wash and scrub, and scrape off the 
outside skin. 

Parsnips should be scrubbed thorougljly, and 
the fine roots removed. 

Cabbage and cauliflower: These should be 
thoroughly washed and soaked after trimming. 
When soaking they should be put in the water 
top down, to remove insects, etc. 

Spinach should be picked over carefully and 
washed several times. 

Celery should be washed and cleaned, scraped 
until all parts are white. 

Onions should be peeled and soaked. 

Green corn should hot be washed. It may h9 
boiled with the husks on or not. 

String beans should have the side strings re- 
moved and washed. 



LESSON XXVI 

CEREALS 

These are to be cooked in a small quantity of 
water. For tMs reason, and also because they 
are glutinous and sticky, they* are very likely 
to burn. Hence it is necessary to stir them con- 
stantly, when cooked in one vessel over the fire, 
to prevent them from burning. But this neces- 
sity of stirring can be done away with if the 
double boiler is used. The heat of the inner 
vessel, which is surrounded by boiling water, is 
lower than that of the water; and so it takes a 
long time to cook. The great advantage of 'Slow 
boiling is that the flavor of the food is retained 
and the substance is not lost. 

In cooking oatmeal for gruel we use a great 
quantity of water. Some of the water goes to 
moisten and swell up the dry meal. 

When oatmeal is made into porridge the 
water used should be about three or four times 
the bulk of meal used. 

When flour is to be mixed with water we use 
a little cold water first, because the grains of 
flour are so fine that they will not separate in 

224 ' 



CEREALS 225 

hot or boiling water. It is not so in the case 
of oatmeal. The grains are coarse, and hot 
water may be used at once. Cold water would 
draw out the starch from the meal and the mix- 
ture would be sticky, and when the meal was 
cooked it would be tasteless and pasty. So the 
oatmeal is mixed directly with boiling water. 
About a half teaspoonf ul of salt is added to each 
cup of oatmeal because salt is wanting in 
the grain of the oat. It takes from forty 
minutes to one hour for oatmeal to cook prop- 
erly: for it is necessary to cook the gluten 
thoroughly. If it is cooked rapidly at first for 
about ten minutes, the starch grains of the meal 
will burst open. Then the porridge is to cook 
gradually for the rest of the period. 

Rice may be cooked in a similar manner, but 
water to only twice the bulk of rice should be 
used. 

LESSON EECIPES FOR CEEEALS 

STEAMED AVENA OE EOLLED OATS 

Two cupfuls boiling water ; J teaspoonf ul 
salt ; i cupful Rolled Oats or Avena. 

Put the salt and water into the top of a 
double boiler. Remove any black specks found 
in the oatmeal, and stir the grains into the 
water. Cover, and steam from thirty minutes 



226 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



to one hour. Serve with milk or cream, and 
sugar. Baked or steamed apples and other 
fruits are sometimes served with oatmeal. 

SCOTCH OATMEAIi 

5 cupfuls boiling water ; 1 teaspoonful salt ; 1 
cupful coarse oatmeal. 

Pick over the oatmeal and put it with the salt 
and water into a two-quart covered boiler or 
pail. Set it on a stand in a large kettle of boil- 
ing water, and let it boil slowly all day or all 
night. This makes a jelly-like mass with a rich 
flavor. Do hot stir it, since stirring makes it 
ropy. 

STEAMED EICE 

11/i cups boiling water; % teaspoonful salt; 
y-2, cup rice. 

Look the rice over carefully, and pick out the 
specks, husks, or pebbles. Wash and scrub 
with the hands, in two o ; three waters, to make 
it white. Put it with the water and salt into the 
top of a double boiler and steam from forty-five 
minutes to one hour. Try it by pinching grains 
of the rice between the thumb and finger. If 
any gritty spots are found, cook it until per- 
fectly soft. If it becomes very dry in cooking, 
add 1 tablespoonful hot water occasionally, until 
it is moist enough. A few raisins, seeded, cut 
into small pieces, and cooked with the rice, are 



CEREALS 227 

an improvement. If the rice is cooked in milk 
instead of water, 11/2 cupfuls hot milk to 1/2 cup 
rice will be a good proportion. When the rice 
is done, press it into small cups, let it cool two 
or three minutes, and turn the shapes out on a 
pretty dish. Serve hot with sugar and milk, or 
with a soft custard poured around it. 

SOFT CTJSTAED 

1 cupful hot milk; 1 sprinkle salt; 1 table- 
spoonful sugar ; 1 egg ; . "^^ teaspbonf ul liquid 
flavoring, or 1 sprinkle spice. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, or in a dish 
or pan set into boiling water. If nutmeg or any 
spice is used, put it into the milk. Beat the egg 
slightly, add the sugar and salt, and pour the 
hot milk into the egg mixture, stirring it well. 
Put it all into the double boiler and steam it, 
stirring it constantly until it thickens. If it 
curdles, set the pan containing the custard into 
cold water, and beat with an egg-beater, or a 
fork, until smooth. Put the custard into a china 
or glass dish, to cool. When the steam has 
passed off the custard, the liquid flavoring may 
be stirred in. Serve cold, poured around boiled 
fioe, as a sauce. 

STEAMED APPLES 

Wipe and core the apples. Pare them, if 
desired. Put them on a plate, and set the plate 



228 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

on a stand, or on some nails, in a tin steamer, 
over a kettle of boiling water. Steam until soft, 
or from fifteen to thirty minutes. Serve with 
oatmeal, or separately with sugar and milk, or 
cream. 

BOILED COEN-MEAL MUSH 

1 pint boiling water; 1 cupful corn meal; % 
teaspoonful salt; % tablespoonful flour; 1 cup- 
ful cold milk. 

Put the water on to boil. Mix the corn meal, 
salt, and flour; add the milk gradually to make 
a smooth paste. Pour it into the boiling water, 
stir well, and boil, stirring often, thirty or forty 
minutes. Serve hot with milk or cream. When 
cold, cut it in i/^-inch slices, and brown both 
sides in a little hot fat. Serve with syrup on the 
table. This mixture is delicious, if cooked two 
or three hours in a double boiler. 

STEAMED BHUBAEB 

1 cupful rhubarb ; l'-3 cup sugar. 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces 
without removing the skin, as this gives a pretty 
pink color to the juice. Put it in an agate 
'double boiler without water, sprinkle the sugar 
over it and steam one-half hour, or until soft. 
Do not stir it, as it breaks the pieces. 



LESSON XXVII 

BREAD 

The three essentials to good bread-making 
are: 

1. The right kind of flour. 

2. Good yeast. 

3. Proper baking. 

Bread may be made from various kinds of 
flour,but wheat flour is the best, as it contains the 
proper proportion of gluten to make the bread 
of a sufficiently sticky mass. Eye flour alone 
makes a moist, heavy bread, and corn flour a 
dry crumbly bread. Either of the latter may 
be advantageously mixed with wheat flour to 
make good bread. 

As a food, wheat is preferable to any of the 
other vegetable products, as it is more agreeable 
than corn and more nutritious than rice. It 
contains nearly all of the essential elements 
of nutrition. There are two varieties: red 
wheat and white wheat. The red is smaller, 
harder, more nutritive, though the flour made 
from it is not as white as that from the white 
wheat. 

229 



230 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

The chief adulterants of wheat flour are: 
rice flour, potato starch, pea meal, alum, plastei 
of Paris, and sulphate of copper, the latter be- 
ing heavy and used to increase the weight. The 
great test for good pure flour is to press a hand- 
ful tightly. On relaxing, the impression of the 
marks in the skin and the lines of the hand 
may be plainly seen on it. 

Yeast is a vegetable growth of a fungous na- 
ture, easily seen under a microscope. It con- 
sists of a mass of circular, or oval, bodies, which 
increase or multiply at an astonishing rate, but 
are easily killed by heat, cold, pressure, or 
chemical agents. Brewer's or distillery yeast 
is that which rises to the top of fermenting 
malt liquors. It is about eight times as strong 
as ordinary yeast. The ordinary yeast is made 
from hops or potatoes. 

The first process of bread-making is mixing. 
Place "1/^ teaspoonful of salt, % teaspoonful of 
sugar, and % cupful of yeast, or % yeast cake 
dissolved in ^ cupful of lukewarm water, in a 
mixing bowl. Add 1 cupful of water, and mix. 
Add flour enough to make the mass stiff enough 
to knead. 

Kneading is the next process. This is done' 
for the purpose of making the gluten elastic, of 
causing the parts to adhere to one another and 
to make the dough fine and even-grained. The 



BREAD 23J 

better the ingredients are mixed, the less knead- 
ing is required. The kneading must be kept up 
until the mass is quite elastic and until all stick- 
iness has disappeared. Much depends on thor- 
ough kneading. 

The next process is that of rising. The mass 
is placed in the mixing bowl again, covered with 
a cloth and a tin cover, and placed in a warm 
place (about 80 degrees) and allowed to rise. 
This will take longer in winter and in cold than 
in warm weather. In winter it may set over- 
night; in summer, from three to four hours. 
The rising of bread is caused by the growth of 
the yeast plant. The warmth and moisture 
cause it to grow. Boiling water will kill it; 
hence this must never be used in bread-making. 
As the yeast plant grows, the starch in the flour 
changes into sugar. The yeast plant changes 
the sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide, or 
carbonic-acid gas. This is fermentation. The 
carbonic-acid gas, in its efforts to escape from 
the mass of elastic gluten, fills the dough with 
air-cells which make the mass light and spongy. 
When it has increased to twice its original size, 
it is again w&rked over or kneaded, in the bowl. 
When it is moulded or shaped into loaves, which 
are again allowed to rise, it is then baked in an 
oven of about 400 degrees. This heat has the 
effect of killing the yeast germ and thereby 



232 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

stopping the f ermentatiom. If this was allowed 
to go on, it would reach a point when the alco- 
holic fermentation would pass into the acetic 
fermentation and the dough would become sour. 
In baking, the alcohol passes into the oven, and 
the outer starch changes into gum, which forms 
the crust and is browned by the intense heat. 

YEAST 

Yeast is a plant, not the flowering plant to 
which most of us are accustomed, but one of the 
lower forms of vegetation referred to as germ 
plants. It is microscopic, and when magnified 
is seen as small rounded bodies. These increase 
very rapidly under proper conditions of heat 
and moisture. They remain inactive, however, 
both in a cool place and while they have nothing 
to feed upon. When mixed with warm water 
and flour they feed upon the flour and start to 
grow and to multiply. This growth sets upon 
a fermentation. During fermentation, which is 
aided by the diastase of the flour, alcohol and 
carbon dioxide are given off. The carbon di- 
oxide is a gas, and as this gas tries to escape 
through the tough tissues of the flour, bubbles 
are formed in the dough. This has the effect 
of making the bread light, and also of causing 
the bread to rise. Boiling water causes the 
death of the yeast plant. For this reason boil- 



BREAD 233 

ing water must never be used in bread-making. 
A certain degree of heat is necessary to the 
growth of the plant, so cold water or a cool 
place will retard the rising of the bread. There 
are two sorts of fermentation possible in bread- 
making: alcoholic and acetic. Acetic or sour 
fermentation is caused by the formation of 
acetic acid, which is the basis of vinegar. It 
is this that causes sour bread; therefore bread 
must not be allowed to rise too long. The heat 
of the oven has the effect of stopping the fer- 
mentation. If the bread is put into the oven too 
soon, the bread will be heavy. If too late, it 
will be sour. The perception of the proper 
time comes only from experience and practice. 

In the making of yeast it is necessary to have 
some old yeast in order to supply a small quan- 
tity of the plant to the new mixture. This acts 
as the seed, and the other materials are the fa- 
vorable conditions to the growth of the plants. 

There are such good and cheap cultivated 

yeasts made by manufacturers in these days 

that it is hardly worth while to bother about 

making home-made yeast any longer. It can 

hardly be made so uniform as that prepared by 

brewers and distillers, and we recommend the 

use of this cultivated yeast at all times. 
i6 



234 THE COOK ING SCHOOL 

LESSON RECIPES FOR BREAD 
BBEAD 

1 cup lukewarm milk, or 1 cup lukewarm water 
and 1 teaspoonful butter"; 1 teaspoonful sugar; 
1 teaspoonful salt ; y^ cake yeast dissolved in % 
cup lukewarm water or % cup liquid yea^t; 
flour to make a stiff dough (31/4 to 3i/^ cups). 

Scald the milk, add the sugar and salt, and 
cool it until lukewarm. Dissolve the com- 
pressed yeast in the lukewarm water, and add 
it. Stir in flour to make a dough stiff 
enough to handle. Scrape the dough out on a 
floured board, leaving the bowl clean, and knead 
the dough about fifteen minutes until smooth 
and elastic, so that, when pressed with the 
finger, the dough springs back. Place the dough 
in the bowl, grease the top with melted butter or 
dripping, to prevent a tough crust from forming 
and keeping the dough from rising. Cover the 
bowl with a towel, and set it in a warm place. 
Let the dough rise until double its bulk. Lay 
it on a board, and knead it again about fifteen 
minutes, being careful not to work in much 
flour, until the dough is smooth, even, and fine- 
grained. Shape it into biscuits or loaves, lay 
them in a greased pan, let them rise in a warm 
place, until double their bulk, and bake on lower 
shelf of a hot oven. Biscuit will require from 



BREAD 235 

ten to twenty minutes, and loaves from forty- 
five minutes to one hour. If the dough is mi^ed 
with water, butter may be added to prevent the 
bread from being tough. The butter should be 
melted and added to the lukewarm water. The 
quantity of yeast in the reeipe will raise the 
dough to double its bulk in about six hours ; Va 
of a cake of yeast will raise it in about four 
hours, and % of a cake will raise it in about 
twelve hours. 

BREAD MADE WITH A SPONGE 

Use the bread recipe, mixing in only enough 
flour to make a thick batter. If liked, boil a po- 
tato, mash it, and stir it in. Let the batter rise 
overniglit. In the morning, stir in enough flour 
to make a stiff dough, and knead or chop it 
until it is smooth and free' from stickiness. 
Mould it lightly into loaves or biscuit. Let 
them rise until double their bulk, and bake. 
The potato is an advantage, since yeast acts 
quickly on cooked starch. 

ENTIRE-WHEAT OR GRAHAM BREAD 

Use the above recipe, doubling the quantity of 
sugar, and using for each cupful of flour, V3 cup 
of entire wheat or Graham flour, and Vg cup 
white flour. Proceed as in the preceding recipe, 
handling the dough ligihtly when kneading, since 
it is apt to be sticky. 



236 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



EAISED COEN-BBBAD 

2 cupfuls yellow com meal ; % cake of yeast, 
and 14 cupful lukewarm water; % cupful mo- 
lasses; % teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful 
soda ; 2 cupfuls rye meal. 

Sift the corn meal into the mixing-bowl, and 
fecald it with 1 cup boiling water, just enough to 
wet it ; let it stand ten minutes, and add 1 cup 
cold water, enough to make a batter. Add the 
molasses, yeast, salt, soda, and rye. Beat well, 
cover, and let it rise in a warm place all night, 
or until it cracks open. Stir thoroughly, but- 
ter and flour tins, fill them one-half full, let the 
mixture rise to the top, and bake in a moderate 
oven two hours. 

BAISED MUFFINS 

' , 2 cupfuls milk; 1 tablespoonful butter; 3 cup- 
fuls flour; 1/4 cup yeast or % cake yeast; 1 tea- 
spoonful salt. 

Scald the milk, add the butter, and cool. 
When lukewarm, stir in the yeast, salt, and 
flour, and beat well for five minutes. Cover, 
and set to rise about two hours, until double its , 
bulk. Add sufficient flour to make a soft dough. 
Divide into small balls, and place in a deep gem- 
pan, cover and let rise to double their bulk. 
Bake about one-half hour. When served, pull 
them open, since cutting makes them heavy. 



LESSON XXVIII 

SALADS 

A SALAD well prepared is a cliarining com- 
pound', and, when taken with plenty of oil, very- 
wholesome, attractive, and , agreeable ; badly 
prepared it is an abomination. A Spanish 
proverb says that four persons are needed to 
make a good salad — a spendthrift to throw in 
the oil, a miser to drop in the vinegar, a lawyer 
to administer the seasoning, and a madman to 
stir the whole together. Lettuce is generally 
supposed to form the foundation of a salad, but 
there are few fresh vegetables that may not be 
used: and almost every known vegetable is, 
when plainly dressed, used cold for salads ; and 
cold meat, fish, and game are served in the 
same way. Amongst the vegetables appropri- 
ate for salads may be named asparagus, arti- 
chokes, beetroot boiled, basil, celery, chives, cu- 
cumbers, chervil, cauliflowers, dandelion-leaves, 
endive, French beans, garlic, lettuces of all 
kinds, lentils, mustard and cress, mint, onions, 
parsley, potatoes, radishes, shallots, sorrel, tar- 
ragon, tomatoes, Windsor beans, and water-- 

237 



238 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

cress. Though a val-iety in salads is easily se- 
cured, great care is necessary in the prepara- 
tion of the dish, and three or four rules must be 
closely observed if the salad is to be a success. 
First, the vegetables must be young, freshly cut, 
in season, and in good condition. If possible, 
they should be gathered early in the morning, or 
late in the evening, and should be kept in a cool, 
damp place. Secondly, the vegetables should 
not be allowed to lie long in water. If withered, 
they may be put in for a short time to render 
them a little crisp, but if fresh, they should be 
simply rinsed through the water and dried im- 
mediately. Thirdly^ — and this point requires 
most careful attention — the vegetables must be 
rendered perfectly dry after washing. The best 
way of doing this is to drain the salad and shake 
it first in a colander or salad-basket, and after- 
wards in a clean napkin held by the corners and 
shaken lightly till the salad is dry. Fourthly, 
cut the salad with a silver knife, or tear it in 
shreds ; do not prepare it until a short time be- 
fore it is wanted, and on no account mix the 
salad-dressing with it until the last moment. It 
is a very usual and excellent plan to pour the 
liquid into the bottom of the bowl, lay the shred 
vegetables upon it, and mix the salad at table. 
A wooden fork and spoon are the best for this 
purpose. Salads may be garnished in various 



SALADS 239 

VTSijs, and afford ample opportunity for the dis- 
play of artistic taste. Boiled beetroot cut into 
slices stamped into fancy shapes or cut into 
trellis-work, sliced cucumbers, olives, hard-i 
boiled eggs cut into quarters or rings, radishes, 
nasturtium-leaves, and flowers, etc., may all be 
used. When these are arranged tastefully the 
salad presents a very attractive appearance. 
Of course the garniture must not entirely hide 
the salad. 



LESSON RECIPES FOR SALADS 
BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

% teaspoonful mustard; 1 teaspoonful salt; 
sprinkle cayenne; 1 even tablespoonful sugar; 
1 ^SS'j % cup vinegar, or juice of 1 lemon; % 
cup milk; 1 tablespoonful butter, or 2 table- 
spoonfuls salad-oil. 

Mix the 4 dry seasonings. Beat the Qgg, scald 
the vinegar and milk in separate dishes, and add 
them with the butter. Cook it in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly until it thickens like soft ' 
custard. If it curdles, beat it until smooth with 
an egg-beater. If desired cold, strain it into a 
china dish, and set away to cool. 

The sugar may be omitted if preferred. If 
the seasoning is too strong, use smaller quanti- 
ties. Try % teaspoonful of mustard. 



240 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



COLD SLAW 

Take a fresh, crisp cabbage, and pull off the 
torn, dirty leaves. Cut it into several pieces, 
and shave each piece into thin strips, using the 
hard stalk as a handle in holding the piece. 
Strain the salad dressing, while hot, over the 
cabbage, mix it well, spread it out, and set it 
away to cool. When ready to serve, arrange in 
a neat mound in the centre of a clean dish. The 
amount of dressing in the recipe is sufficient 
for a 1-pound cabbage. If the cabbage is wilted, 
soak it for an hour or more in cold salted water. 

LETTUCE SALAD 

Pick the leaves off from the head of lettuce, 
look them over carefully to be sure that they are 
whole, clean, and free from insects. Wash them 
in cold water, and shake the leaves gently in a 
cloth to dry them ; arrange on a flat dish with the 
smaller leaves inside the larger, and serve, with 
the cold salad dressing on the table. 

MEAT SALADS 

Cold lean mutton, lamb, pork, beef, chicken, 
or veal may be freed from fat, bones, skin, and 
gristle, cut into small neat pieces, stirred into 
the hot salad dressing, placed on the ice to get 
very cold, and served on a pretty dish., 



SALADS 241 

An attractive way of serving these salads is 
to arrange lettuce leaves on a platter, and put a 
tablespoonful of the mixture in the centre of 
each leaf. 

LOBSTEE SALAD 

The meat of a boiled lobster may be cut, and 
mixed with the dressing, and served in the same 
way as the meat. Bits of the lobster-coral are 
sometimes placed on top of the salad to give an 
ornamental effect. 



POTATO SALAD 

Boil 6 potatoes, cut in thin slices, pour the hot 
dressing over and let it stand until cold. 2 
tablespoonfuls of chopped celery may be mixed 
with the potatoes, and 1 teaspoonful onion juice 
may be stirred into the dressing after it is 
cooked. Serve in the same manner as the meat 
salads. Sliced boiled beets are sometimes 
added. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Pour boiling water over 8 or 10 tomatoes, 
and let it stand a moment. Pour off, and add 
cold water. Slip off the skins, slice, and set 
away to become cold. Serve with the cold 
dressing. If desired, the slices of tomatoes may 
be served on lettuce leaves. 



242 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

VEGETABLE SALAD 

Remnants of cold cooked carrots, beans, 
beets, peas, and asparagus, and raw celery, may 
be cut in small, neat pieces, mixed with the hot 
dressing, and served when cold. A teaspoon- 
ful of onion juice added to the dressing is an 
improvement. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Salad dressings are frequently bought of the 
grocer, and sent to table in the bottle in which 
they are purchased. ' Though these creams are 
many of them very good, epicures in salad al- 
ways prefer that the salad dressing should be 
prepared at home. Mayonnaise salad sauce is 
perhaps to be preferred tq any other, and for 
this a recipe is given. 

A foolish prejudice is felt by many persons 
against the use of oil in salads, but this is 
gradually disappearing, as the majority of 
those who are prevailed upon to overcome it 
end by being exceedingly partial to what they 
had before disliked, and they also find that oil 
tends to prevent the fermentation of the raw 
vegetable, and is, besides, an antidote to flatu- 
lency. Seeing, however, that this prejudice still 
exists, two or three recipes are given of salad 
dressings without oil as well as with it* It has 



SALADS 243 

been already said that the dressing should not 
be mixed with the salad until the last moment. 
Nevertheless, it may always be prepared some 
hours before it is wanted, and stored in a cool, 
airy place. When salads are much used, a good 
plan is to make sufl&cient for two or three days' 
consunaption, and to bottle it off for use. 

No. 1. Put a saltspoonful of salt, % salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, a teaspoonful of 
mixed mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar into a bowl. Mix 
these ingredients thoroughly, and add, first by 
drops and afterwards by teaspoonfuls, 2 table- 
spoonfuls, of oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of milk', and 
2 tablespoonfuls of vipegar. Stir the mixture 
well between every addition. The sauce ought 
to look like cream. A teaspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar ma.y be added, or not. 

No. 2. Boil an egg till hard, and lay it in cold 
water for a minute. Strip off the shell, and put 
the yolk into a bowl. Eub it well with the back 
of a wooden spoon, and put with it a teaspoonful 
of mixed mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, % salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of 
powdered sugai;, and a pinch of cayenne. Add, 
first by drops and afterwards by saltspoonfuls, 
a tablespoonful of oil, 6 tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream, and, lastly 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Beat the sauce well between every addition. 



244 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Mince the whole of the egg, or cut it into, rings, 
with which to garnish the salad. 

No. 3 (Dr. Kitchener's recipe). Boil 2 eggs 
for a quarter of an hour. Lay them in cold 
water, and in a few minutes strip off the shells, 
and lay the yolks in a basin. Eub them till 
smooth with the back of a wooden spoon; and 
mix with them, very gradually, first a table- 
spoOnful of water or thick cream, and after- 
wards 2 table^poonfuls of oil. When these are 
well mixed, add a teaspoonful of salt or pow- 
dered sugar, a teaspoonful of made mustard, 
and, lastly, and very gradually, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. Put the sauce at the bottom of the 
bowl, lay the salad on the top, garnish with the 
whites of the eggs cut into rings, and do not miy 
the salad till the last moment. 

No. 4. Mix a saltspoonful of salt and % salt- 
sjpoonful of pepper with a tablespoonful of oil. 
When the salt is dissolved, put in 4 additional 
tablespoonfuls of oil, and then pour the sauce 
over the salad. Mix thoroughly, and add a 
tablespoonful of good vinegar, and a tablespoon- 
ful of tarragon or cucumber vinegar. Mix 
again, and serve. i 

No. 5. Rub the hard-boiled yolks of 3 eggs 
till smooth, and mix in a saltspoonful of salt, a 
teaspoonful of raw mustard, a saltspooflful of 
powdered loaf sugar, % saltspoonful of white 



SALADS 245 

pepper, and the well-beaten yolk of a raw egg. 
Add gradually 4 tablespoonfuls of thick cream, 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of strained lemon juice. 
Beat the dressing thoroughly between every ad- 
dition. 

No. 6. Beat the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs 
till smooth. Add a teaspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, a pinch of cayenne, 
14 of a tablespoonful of white pepper, and, grad- 
ually, 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, the strained juice 
of a lemon, and 2 tablespoonfuls of light wine. 

No. 7. Eub the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs till 
smooth with a teaspoonful of vinegar. Add a 
teaspoonful each of mustard, sugar, salt, and 
pepper, a tablespoonful of claret, and a finely 
minced shallot or young onion. Beat in, first 
by drops and afterwards by teaspoonfuls, 4 
tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, and, lastly, add a 
teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a table- 
spoonful of white-wine vinegar. 

No. 8. Beat a spoonful of flour with the yolks 
of 3 eggs. Add a teaspoonful of mixed mus- 
tard, % saltspoonful of salt, % teaspoonful of 
pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 3 table- 
spoonfuls of water. Cut 3 ounces of streaky 
bacon into small pieces, and fry these till they 
begin to turn color. Pour in the salad mixture, 
and stir the whole over the fire till the cream is 
thick and smooth. Pour it out, and continue 



246 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

stirring untileool, and add a little more vinegar 
and water if necessary. The sauce ought to be 
as thick as custard. 

No. 9 (named Sauce a la Lowry). Beat the 
yolk of a raw egg. Mix with it a pinch of salt, 
a pinch of white pepper, and, gradually, 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of salad-oil, a teaspoonful of essence 
of anchovy, and 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar. 



LESSON XXIX 

PASTRY 

In making pastry, the first thing to be remem- 
bered is titat every article used in its prepara- 
tion should be scrupulpusly clean ; and in order 
to ensure this it is best to have all the utensils 
washed and thoroughly, dried directly after they 
are used, and dusted when they are agaip re- 
quired. In addition to this there must be good 
materials, a welLregulated oven, a cool room, 
and a cook who brings to her. work a cool, light, 
quick hand, close attention, and a little experi- 
ence. There are four principal kinds of pastry : 
puff paste ; short cri;st, for family use ; standing 
crust, for meat and fish pies ; and brioche paste, 
which is a sort of dough used for loaves, rolls, 
and buns. As cool hands are required, it is best 
to wash them in water as hot as can be borne a 
minute or two before making the pastry. The 
heat of the oven should in most cases be moder- 
ate, and the, door should be only opened when it 
is absolutely necessary during the process of 
baking. The best way of ascerta/ining if the 
oven is properly heated is to bake a small piece 

2A1 



248 THE COOKI NG SCHOOL 

of pastry in it before putting in the pie or tart. 
Standing crusts require a quicker oven than or- 
dinary pastry. In all cases wetting the pastry 
much will make it tough. 

PASTE FOR COMMON PIES 

Very excellent pastry may be made with lard 
or dripping, instead of butter, or with a mixture 
of lard and dripping. Good beef fat, or suet 
melted gently down, and poured off before it 
has had time to bum, is very nearly as good as 
anything that can be used for making pastry 
for everyday use. Very palatable pies may be 
made from the dripping from roast beef, veal, 
pork, or mutton, though the last named is 
thought by some to impart a disagreeable flavor 
of tallow to pastry. The quantity of fat used 
must, of course, be regulated by the expense, 
and it may be remembered that a rich crust is 
neither so digestible nor so suitable for many 
dishes as a substantial light one, and that the 
lightness of pastry depends quite as much upon 
a light, quick, cool hand as on a large amount of 
butter or lard. The addition of a beaten egg or 
a little lemon juice to the water, or a teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder to the flour, will make the 
paste lighter. It should be remembered, how- 
ever, that though baking-powder is excellent for 
common pastry that is to be used immediately, 



PASTRY 24? 

pies are more likely to get dry quickly when it 
is used. 

PTJFF PASTE 

Dry and sift the flour, and prepare the butter. 
Equal weights of butter and flour may be used, 
or % of a pound of butter to each pound of flour. 
Put a little salt into the flour, and make it into a 
paste by stirring gradually into it with a knife 
rather less than half a pint of water. EoU it 
out till it is an inch thick. Divide the butter 
into quarters : break one of these quarters into 
small pieces, and sprinkle these over the paste. 
Dredge a little flour over it, and turn it over, 
then repeat the process, until all the butter is 
incorporated with the paste. Let the paste rest 
for ten minutes between each two rolls. Equal 
parts of lard and butter may be used for this 
paste, and if the yolk of an egg or the strained 
juice of half a lemon be mixed with the water 
in the first instance, the paste will be lighter. 

FRENCH PASTE, FOK MEAT PIES, HOT OB COLD 

Put a pound of flour into a bowl, and rub 
iightly into it half a pound of fresh butter. Add 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and make the mixture 
up into a smooth stiff paste, by stirring into it 
2 fresh, eggs which have been beaten up with 
rather less than % of a pint of water. Roll the 
pastry out, give it two or three turns, and bake 
'7 



250 THE COOOKG SCHOOL 



as soon as possible. Time, ten minutes to pre- 
pare. 

LESSON RECIPES FOR PASTRY 
PASTBY 

1 heaping cup flour; 14 teaspoonful salt; % 
teaspoonful bakings-powder; 2 tablespbonfuls 
shortening ; 14 ^^V or more cold water. 

Sift the flour, salt, and baking-powder into a 
bowl,' and rub in the shortening until the whole 
is reduced to a fine powder. Mix With the cold 
water to make a stiff dough. Scrape on a 
floured board, and pat and roll into a circular 
shape to fit the plate. Fit it loosely into the 
plate, allowing it to come a little over the edge, 
since it shrinks when baked. This makes two 
crusts for plates of ordinary size. Cottolene 
may be used as shortening. 

SHOBT-OAKB PASTE 

2 cups flour ; % teaspoonful salj; ; % even tea- 
spoonful soda, and 1 slightly rounded teaspoon- 
ful cream of tartar, or 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder; % cupful butter; 1 cupful sweet milk. 

Sift the salt, soda, cream-tartar, and flour ta- 
gether, and rub in the butter, keeping it as cold 
as possible. Stir in the milk to make a dough 
just soft enough to handle. Turn it on a floured 
board; divide the dough into halves and roll 



PASTRY 251 

each piece out to fit a round tin plate. Bake at 
once, in a hot oven. When done, turn out eadh 
cake and lay it on the clean under-side of the 
baking-tin. With a thin, sharp knife, split the 
cake evenly, and lay the bottom crust on a china 
plate. Butter each half. Lay partly mashed, 
sweetened strawberries, peaches, apple-sauce, 
stewed rhubarb, or any hot cooked fruit suitable 
for pies, on the under crust, lay the upper crust 
oyer it, and serve as a pie. Powdered sugar 
may be sifted over the top. If liked, it may be 
served with cream. 

APPLE PIE 

Take 4 large apples for each' pie. Pare, core, 
and slice thin. Lay them in a deep pieplate, and 
sprinkle over 1 tablespo.onful sugar to each 
apple, and % tabiespoonful water to each, and 
a little spice. If the apples are small, measure 
scant tablespoonfuls of sugar. Cover with a 
crust of pastry and bake until the crust is brown 
and the fruit is soft. About one-half hour is re- 
quired. The apples may be stewed with the 
sugar and water, and used as directed in the 
recipe for shortcake paste, so as to make a pie 
with two wholesome crusts. Ehubarb may be 
washed, cut into pieces, sprinkled with 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar to % cupful rhubiarb, and 
cooked in the same way. Peaches, cherries, and 



252 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

apricots may be cooted, also, in this way. 
Huckleberries, blackberries, and raspberries 
I may be picked over, washed and sweetened with 
Vs cup sugar to 1 cup fruit, and baked in a pie, 
according to this recipe. Use only an upper 
crust for fruit pies, since, in baking, the juice 
soaks into the under crust, making it heavy and 
indigestible. In making fruit pies without an 
under crust always use earthenware plates. 

LEMOlf PIE 

3 even tablespodnfuls corn starch ; 1 cup 
sugar; 1 cup boiling water; 2 even tablespoon- 
fuls butter; 1 lemon (rind and juice) ; 2 yolks of 
egg; 2 whites of egg, and 1 tablespoonful 
sugar. 

Mix the corn starph and sugar, pour on the 
boiling water and boil until clear. When 
slightly cooled add the butter, the lemon juice 
and grated rind and the beaten yolk, and cook. 
Line a plate with pastry, and when baked pour 
in the lemon-mixture. Whip the whites until 
stiff, and beat in the sugar. Drop it on the pie, 
and brown on the grate 2 or 3 minutes. This 
makes one large pie. 

MINCE PIE 

1 cupful raisins; 1 egg, beaten; 1% cupfuls 
currants; 14 teaspoonful salt; y^ cupful .cut 



PASTRY 253 

citron; % teaspoonful cinnamon; juice and rind 
of 1 lemon; Vs cup molasses ; % cupful tart jelly 
or fruit- juice ; 2 tablespoonf uls vinegar ; 2 Bos- 
ton crackers; y^. cupful sugar; % teaspoonful 
cloves. 

Seed and chop the raisins, wash the currants, 
roll the crackers fine. Mix all the ingredients, 
together, boil ten minutes, and bake with an 
upper and Txnder crust. The egg may be omit- 
ted, and 3 cupfuls apples, 1 cupful meat, and i/4 
cupful beef suet chopped together, may be 
added, and the mixture boiled and stirred from 
twenty to thirty minutes until the apples are 
soft. 

BBIOCHE PASTE 

Brioche paste may be served in a great va- 
riety of ways, all of which are excellent. It 
may be baked in one large cake ; in fancy shapes, 
such as rings and twists; or in small ? oaves, 
rolls, or buns. Gruyere and Parmesan cheese or 
sweets may be introduced into it, or small por- 
tions may be stewed in soup, or fried, or used 
as the outer crust in which rissoles are cooked. 
Its most usual form, however, is that of a sort 
of double cake, the two parts being moulded 
separately, and moistened before they are 
joined, to cause them to adhere closely to one 
another. The upper portion of the brioche 
should be made smaller than the lower one, and 



254 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

the entire cake ' should be brushed over with 
beaten egg before it is put into the oven. When 
jam is put into, brioches, it should be mixed with 
part of the paste, and the rest rolled out, and 
put round it, so as to keep the fruit from boil- 
ing out. Cheese, on the contrary, should be well 
mixed with the paste^ which should, then be 
baked in the ordinary way. Gruyere cheese 
should be cut into small dice, and Parmesan 
cheese grated for this purpose. Brioche paste is 
best made on the evening of the day before it is 
wanted, as it requires to lie in a cool place for 
some hours before it is baked. Though deli- 
cious, it is considered rather indigestible. It 
must be baked in a well-heated oven. The quan- 
tity only which will be wanted for immediate 
use should be made at one time, as brioche paste 
will n6t keep. When properly prepared it is 
light and springy to the touch before it is baked, 
and it ought to rise in the sponge to fully twice 
its original size. It is made as follows : Take 1 
pound (weighing 16 ounces) of dried and sifted 
flbur. Divide it into 4 parts, and with 1 of these 
parts make the leaven. To do this, put the flour 
into a bowl, make a hollow in the middle of it, 
and pour into this hollow half an ounce of yeast 
dissolved in a spoonful or two of warm water. 
Add as much water as is required to make the 
whole into a soft smooth paste; gather it into 



PASTRY 255 

a ball, and put it into a bowL large eilough 
to contain 3 times its quantity. Score the pa^te 
lightly across the top with the blunt side of a 
knife, cover with a cloth, and put it in a warm 
place to rise; it will be ready in about twenty 
minutes. Whilst it is rising take the remaining 
3 parts of the flour. Make a hole in the centre, 
and put into this hole a quarter of an ounce of 
salt, half an ounce of powdered sugar dissolved 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of tepid water, 10 ounces of 
butter, which has been washed in two or three 
waters, squeezed in a cloth to 'free it from 
moisture, and broken into smair pieces, and 4 
eggs freed from the specks. "Work all gently 
together with the fingers, and add one by one 3 
more eggs, until the paste is quite smooth, and 
Ueither too hard to be worked easily nor so soft 
that it sticks to the fingers. When the leaven 
is sufficiently risen, put it upon the paste, and 
mix both togetlier with the fingers gently khd 
thoroughly. Piit the dough into a basin, and 
leave it in a warm pla,ce all night. Early on the 
following morning knead it up afresh, let it 
rise two hours longer, and knead once inore be- 
fore it is baked. BriOche paste should be put 
into a well-heated oven. The time requii'ed for 
baking depencfs, of course, upon the size of the 
cake. Its appearance will soon show -ft^hen it 
is done enough. The materials here gi^^fe, if 



256 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

baked in one cake, would require about half an 
hour. Sufficient for half a dozen! persons. 

PUDDINGS 

Attention is all that is required, and a little 
manual dexterity in turning the pudding out of 
the mould or cloth. Let the several ingredients 
be each fresh and good of its kind, as one bad 
article, particularly eggs, will taint the whole 
composition. Have the moulds and pudding- 
cloths carefully, washed when used, the cloths 
with soda, and dried in the open air. Lay 
them aside sweet and thoroughly dry. , Pud- 
dings ought to be put into plenty of boiling 
water, which must be kept upon a quick boil ; or 
baked, in general, in a sharp but not scorching 
oven. A pudding in which there i? much bread 
must be tied loosely, to allow room for swelling. 
A batter pudding ought to be tied up firmly, 
Moulds should be quite full, well buttered, and 
covered with a fold or two of paper floured and 
buttered. Eggs for puddings must be used in 
greater quantity when of small size, The yolks 
and whites, if the pudding is wanted particu- 
larly light and nice, should be strained after 
being separately well beaten. A little salt is 
necessary for all potato, bean, or jteas puddings, 
and all puddings in which there is suet or meat, 
aB it improves the flavor. The several ingredi- 



PASTRY 257 

ents, after being well stirred together, should 
in general have a Little time to stand, that the 
flavors may blend. A frequent fault of boiled 
puddings, which are often solid bodies, is being 
underdone. Baked puddings are as often 
scorched. Puddings may be steamed with ad- 
vantage, placing the mould or basin in the 
steamer, or three parts dipped in a pot of boil- 
ing water, which must be kept boiling, and filled 
up as the water wastes. When the pudding- 
cloths are to be used, dip them in hot water and 
dredge them with flour ; the moulds must be but- 
tered. Plain moulds or basins are easily man- 
aged. When a pudding begins to set, stir it up 
in the dish, if it is desired that the fruit, etc., 
should not settle to the bottom; and, if boiled, 
turn over the cloth in the pot for the same rea- 
son, and also to prevent it from sticking to the 
bottom, on which a plate may be laid as a pre- 
ventive. The time of boiling must be according 
to size and solidity. When the pudding is taken 
out of the pot, dip it quickly into cold water. 
Set it in a basin of its size. It will then more 
readily separate from the cloth without break-^ 
ing. Have the oven very clean for all uses, 
cleaning it regularly before lighting the fire. 
Take care that the juice of pies does not boil 
over, or the liquid contents of puddings; and 
remeixiber that sugar, butter, and suet become 



258 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

liquids in boiling. It is from their excess that 
puddings often break. Be, therefore, rather 
sparing of sugar ; for if you have much syrup 
you must have more eggs and flour, which make 
puddings heavy. It is often the quantity of 
sugar which makes tapioca and arrowroot, 
boiled plain, troublesome to keep in shape when 
moulded. Rice or other grain puddings must 
not be allowed to boil in the oven before setting, 
or the ingredients will separate and never set ; 
so never put them into a very hot oven. As a 
rule, we may assume that such flavoring ingredi- 
ents as lemon-grate and juice, vanilla, and co- 
coanut, are better liked in modern puddings 
than cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. 

BATTER PUDDINGS 

Care must be taken to mix batter puddings 
smoothly. Let the dried flour be gradually 
mixed with a little of the milk, as in making 
mustard or starch, and afterwards, in nice 
cookery, strain the latter through' a coarse 
sieve. 

Puddings are lighter boiled than baked. 
Raisins, prunes, and damsons for puddings 
must be carefully stoned; or sultanas may be 
used in place of other raisins. Currants must 
be picked and plunged in hot water, rubbed 
in a floured cloth, and plumped and dried before 



PASTRY 259 

the fire; almonds must be blanched and sliced; 
and in mixing grated bread, pounded biscuit, 
etc., with milk, pour the milk on them hot, and 
cover the vessel for an hour, which is both better 
and easier than boiliug. Suet must be quite 
fresh and free of fibres. Mutton suet for pud- 
dings is lighter than that of beef; but marrow, 
when it can be obtained, is richer than either. 
A baked pudding has often a paste border or a 
garnishing of blanched and sliced ahnonds 
about it, but these borders are merely matters of 
ornament; if moulded, puddings may also be 
garnished in various ways, as with bits of cur- 
rant jelly. The sweetness and flavor of pud- 
dings must, in most cases, be determined by in- 
dividual taste. Sugar can be added at table. 

' ' Plum puddings, when boiled, if hung up in 
a cool •place in the cloth they are boiled in, will 
keep good some months. When wanted, take 
them out of the cloth, and put them into a clean 
cloth, and as soon as warmed through they are 
ready. ' ' 

In preparing meat puddings, ' ' the first and 
most important point is never to use any meat 
that is tainted; for in puddings, above all other 
dishes, it is least possible to disguise it by the 
confined process which the ingredients undergo. 
The gradual heating of the meat, which alone 
would accelerate decomposition, will cause the 



260 THE COOmNG SCHCX3L 

smallest piece of tainted meat to contaminate 
the rest. Be particular also that the suet and 
fat are not rancid, always remembering the 
grand principle that everything which gratifies 
the palate nourishes." 

A pudding cloth, however coarse, should 
never be washed with soap; it should just be 
dried as quickly as possible, and kept dry and 
free from dust, and stowed away in a drawer or 
cupboard free from smell, 

LESSON RECIPES FOR PUDDINGS 
BAKED RICE PUDDING 

% cup rice; 2 teaspoonfuls sugar; % tea- 
spoonful salt; 1 quart skimmed milk, or 1 pint 
full milk, and 1 pint water. 

Pick over and wash the rice. Stir it into the 
milk with the sugar and salt. Butter- a pud- 
ding dish, pour in the milk and rice; bake 
slowly two hours, covered, then uncover and 
brown. Seeded raisins may be added. 

INDIAN TAPIOCA PUDDING 

3 tablespoonfuls tapioca; 2 tablQspoonfuls 
Indian meal ; 1 teaspoonf ul butter ; 1 teasppon- 
ful salt ; 1 quart milk ; % cup molasses. 

Soak the tapioca in hot water. Soak the meal 
in y^ cupful of the milk, heat the rest of the 
milk. 



PASTRY 26t 

Mix together the first 4 ingredients," add the 
hot milk and molasses. Turn into a buttered 
baking dish, bake about one hour. 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

% cupful tapioca or sago ; 1 quart hot water ; 
% teaspoonful salt; 6 or 7 apples; 1/2 cupful 
sugar, cinnamon or nutmeg, sugar. 

Pick over and wash the sago, soak about one 
hour. Pour on the hot water, cook till clear ; stir 
often, add the salt. Pare and core the apples, 
slice or put whole in a buttered baking-dish, 
sprinkle sugar and spice over them, and turn 
in the sago. Bake till the apples are soft. 
Serve with milk and sugar. 
' Peaches may be used instead of apples. • 

BREAD PUDDING 

1 pint milk, scalded; 1 cup bread crumbs; 1 
teaspoonful butter; 1 lemon; % cup sugar; 2 
eggs. 

Add the sugar and crumbs to the scalded 
milk, add the butter and lemon rind. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and add them. Bake in a but- 
tered dish thirty minutes. Cool, and spread the 
beaten whites over the top. Add to the whites 
in beating the juice of the lemon and i/^ cup 
powdered sugar. 



LESSON XXX 

» 

CAKE-MAKING 

The average girl, when learning to cook, 
wants to start right in with cake. This prob- 
ably comes more from her fondness for the ar- 
ticle itself than from a desire to , begin with 
something easy, for to make good cake is one 
of the most difficult arts embraced in cookery, 

CHEMISTRY OP CAKE 

The eggs and milk which go into the cake are 
nitrogenous foods ; the flour, butter, and sugar, 
carbonaceous; and while all of these ingredi- 
ents, when taken by themselves, are not only 
perfectly harmless but wholesome, they become, 
in combination with each other and baked, 
rather the reverse under some conditions, and 
difficult to diigest. 

TO MAKE CAKE 

The first rule to be observed in making cake 
is to exercise great care in measuring the in-, 
gredients. The recipes found in this work on 
cooking are all tried, and success will follow for 

262 



CAK£-MAKING 263 



those who give strict attention to the directions. 
Next in importance is the baking, and here 
again great care must be exercised. In addi- 
tion to this one must use only good flour and 
fresh e^gs and butter. For these reasons it will 
be well to observe the following rules in connec- 
tion with this subject : 

Cakes made with butter as an ingredient, 
which by the way are more difficult to digest 
because heating the butter makes it more diffi- 
cult of digestion, should be baked in an oven 
with a moderate heat (220° Fahr.), while layer 
cakes need to be baked more quickly, and should 
have from 280° to 300° Fahr. Such cakes as 
angel's food require even a less amount of 
heat (212°). 

A tin basin should not be used in beating to- 
gether the butter, sugar, and eggs. If you do 
use one, your ingredients are likely to be dis- 
colored. For this purpose a wooden spoon and 
a white enamelled basin are well adapted. 

Carefully measure out all the materials called 
for by the recipe, before beginning. Then you> 
are not so apt to make mistakes. 

Keep the whites and yolks of eggs separate, 
unless the recipe tells you particularly not to 
do so. Sometimes the latter is necessary. 

Beat one thing at a time before adding the 
next ingredient; i. e., first the butter before 



264 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

adding the sugar, then these 'two ingredi- 
ents until very light before adding the eggs, 
when no directions to the contrary are given. 
A teaspoonful of baking-powder always signi- 
fies a rounding teaspoonful. Be sure that dried 
fruits such as raisins, etc., are perfectly clean 
and well floured. They should be added to the 
cake always just before putting into the oven. 

If you find that the fruits go to the bottom, 
you should thicken the batter by adding flouf, 
for in that case your batter is not thick/ enough 
to hold them in place. 

Use suet for greasing the pahs. It will pre- 
vent burning or sticking to the pan, which often 
happens where butter is used for this purpose. 
For fruit cake, and cakes rich in butter, al- 
ways line the cake-tin with greased paper. 

The oven should be in the right Qondition, and 
the cake put in as soon as it is mixed; 

If you find that your oven is too hot, which 
sometimes happens where a thermometer is not 
used, the temperature may be reduced by plac- 
ing a pan of cold water in the oven. The only 
sure way of having the oven right is to use a 
thermometer. 

If you jar the stove or open and close the door 
before the cake is set, it will fall. Therefore, if 
necessary to ascertain the temperature of the 
oven, open and close the door very carefully* 



CA KE-MAKING 2^ 

Care must be exercised to ascertaia whetlier 
or not the cake is thoroughly done before taking 
it out of the oven. Wherever you find the time 
given for baking in a recipe, you must take into 
consideration that this is based upon the tem- 
perature as regulated by a thermometer. If, 
then, you have not your oven at the proper tem- 
perature, your baking time may be wrong. An- 
other argument in favor of the use of a ther- 
mometer. 

Always be careful in taking the cake from the 
oven. Put your ear to it, and if you hear it tick 
you will know it is not done. 

CAKES 

In making cakes, great care should be taken 
that everything which is used should be per- 
fectly dry, as dampness in the materials is very 
likely to produce heaviness in the cake. It is 
always best to have each ingredient properly- 
prepared before beginning to mix the cake. 

Currants should be put into a colander and 
cold water poured over them two or three times, 
then spread upon a dish and carefully looked 
over, so that any little pieces of stone or stalk 
may be removed. The dish should then be 
placed before the fire, and the currants turned 
over frequently until they are quite dry. 

Sutter should be laid in cold water before it 

i8 



266 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

is used, and, if salt, should be washed in sev- 
eral waters. It should be beaten with the hand 
in a bowl till it is reduced to a cream, pouring 
off the water untU no more is left. 

Flour. — The flour for cakes should be of the 
best quality. It should be weighed after it is 
sifted and dried^ 

Eggs. — Each Qgg should always be broken 
into a cup before it is put to the others, as this 
will prevent a bad one spoiling the rest. The 
yolks and whites should be separated, the specks 
removed, and then all the yolks transferred to 
one bowl and the whites to another. The yolks 
may be beaten with a fork till they are light and 
frothy, but the whites must be whisked till they 
are one solid froth, and no liquor remains at the- 
bottom of the bowl. The eggs should be put in 
a cool place till I'equired for use. When the 
whites only are to be used, the yolks, if un- 
•broken, and kept covered, will keep good for 
three or four day's. 

Sugar. — Fine granulated sugar is the best to 
use for cakes ; it should be pounded and sifted. 

Lemon. — Peel should be grated very thin, as 
the white, or inner side, will impart a bitter 
flavor to the cakes. 

Almonds for cakes should be blanched by be- 
ing put into boiling water, and when they have 
been in for a few minutes the skin should be 



CAKE-MAKING 267 



taken off and tlie almonds thrown into cold 
water to preserve the color. If they are 
pounded, a few drops of water, rose-water, or 
white of egg should be added in every two or 
three minutes, to prevent them oiling. If they 
are not pounded, they should be cut into thin 
slices or divided lengthwise. 

LESSON RECIPES FOR CAKES 
PLAIN CAKE 

1 heaping tablespoonful butter; % cup fine 
sugar; 1 egg; i/4 cup milk; 1 even teaspoonful 
baking powder; % cup flour; % teaspoonful 
spice, or % teaspoo]jful flavoring. 

Make ready the fire and oven, and line the 
pans with buttered paper. Cream the butter, 
and work in the sugar gradually. Separate the 
egg, beat the yolk, pour the milk into it, and add 
it to the creamed butter. Sift in the flour, bak- 
ing-powder, and spice, and stir it well, to make 
a smooth dough. Beat the white until stiff, and 
fold it lightly into the dough. Bake from 
twenty to thirty-five minutes. Try with a clean 
straw or a fine skewer. When done, take it 
from the pan, let it stand a few minutes, and 
.carefully peel off the paper. When cool, it 
may be frosted. - English currants, raisins 
quartered and seeded, or citron cut in thin 



268 THE CCX)KING SCHOOL 

slices, may be rolled in flour, and added to. the 
cake just before baking. Chopped nuts may be 
stirred in to make a nut cake. A little cocoa 
may be stirred into part of the dough to make 
it dark. Spread half of the light cake in the 
pan, then scatter in the dark and add the re- 
mainder of the liglit. 

The following recipe resembles the plain 
cake given above, the ingredients being in 
larger quantities : 

LIGHT CAKE 

1 cupful butter J 1^^ cupfuls sugar; 3 eggs, 
separated; 1 teaspoonful flavoring; % cupful 
milk; 3 cupfuls flour; 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, or 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, and % 
teaspoonful soda. 

Follow the directions for mixing as given in 
the plain cake. Do not put in one-quarter cup- 
ful of the ■flour, but save it to see if the dough is 
too stiff. If the cake is baked in shallow pans, 
or in a gem-pan, less flour will be needed than 
for a thick loaf. One cupful currants may be 
added, or 1 cupful nuts ; % cupful dates may be 
floured and added to make a date cake. It may 
be baked in round, shallow pans, and the cakes 
put together with jelly between. 



CAKE-MAKING 269 



SPONGE CAKE 

1% cupfuls flour; 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder; 1 cupful sugar; 1 teaspoonful flavor- 
ing; 2 eggs; mjlk or cream. 

Sift tlie flour, baMng-powder, and sugar to- 
gether. Break the eggs into a cup, fill the cup 
with milk or cream, pour the mixture into a 
bowl, beat it slightly, and add it gradually to the 
flour. Put in the flavoring, and beat the whole 
mixture with an egg-beater for five minutes. 
Bake from twenty to thirty minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. 

It may be baked in an oblong, shallow pan; 
when done turn it out, spread jelly or jam over 
it, and roll it up to make a jelly-roll. If baked 
in round, shallow pans, it can be made into a 
layer cake, with jelly, whipped -cream, fruit, co- 
coanut, or melted sweet chocolate between the 
layers. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

Va cupful sugar; % cupful butter; ^/g cup- 
ful molasses ; 1 egg ; 1 cupful milk ; 2% cupfuls 
flour ; 1 even teaspoonful cream tartar ; 1 heap- 
ing teaspoonful soda; 1 even tablespoonful 
mixed spice ; 1 tablespoonful vinegar, or lemon 
juice. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, 
and stir in the molasses. Sift in % cupful of 



270 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

the flour. Beat tlie egg, mix it with the milk. 
Mix the cream tartar, soda, and spice with the 
flour, and add the flour and the milk alternately, 
stirring well to make a smooth dough. Stir in 
the vinegar or lemon juice and bake at once in 
gem-pans or in two shallow pans, or in a loaf- 
pan. By adding % cupful raisins, seeded and 
quartered, % cupful currants, and % cupful 
citron sliced, and all the fruit rubbed with flour, 
a good fruit cake may be made. By substitut- 
ing 1 tablespoonful ginger for the mixed spice, 
a good gingerbread may be made. 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 cupful granulated sugar; % cupful milk; 2 
tablespoonfuls cocoa, and 1 even teaspoonful 
butter. 

Stir together, and boil, without stirring, four 
minutes. Remove from the fire and beat with 
an egg-beater until it begins to thicken; then 
spread it. at once over cold cake. This makes a 
creamy frosting, which does not dry and 
crumble, but stays on the cake. If it does not 
thicken readily when beaten, boil it for two or 
three minutes again. 

If desired, the frosting may be made, beaten 
until thick and sugary, and set away. When 
wanted for use, the pan containing it may be 
set into boiling water, and the mixture may be 



CAKE-MAKING 27J 



melted so that it can be spread on the cake. 
If flavoring is desired, % teaspoonful vanilla or 
lemon may be added, with or without the cocoa. 

EGG FROSTING 

Beat the white of an egg, and beat into it, 
gradually, enough powdered sugar to make a 
soft paste. Add y^ teaspoonful lemon extract, 
or 1 teaspoonful lemon or orange juice, or % 
teaspoonful vanilla, and spread it on the cake. 

If desired, 2 tablespoonfuls melted chocolate, 
or 2 tablespoonfuls desiccated cocoanut may be 
niixed with it. The yolk of the ^^^ may be used 
instead of the white to make Sunshine Frosting. 

PLAIN PEOSTING 

1 cupful pulverized sugar; 1 tablespoonful 
lemon or orange juice ; 3 tablespoonfuls or more 
of boiling milk or water. 

Mix the sugar and fruit-juice, and stir in the 
boiling liquid, adding enough to make a soft 
paste. Spread it over the cake. This frosting 
may be varied by adding different ingredients 
as directed in the other recipes. 



LESSON XXXI 

PEESEEVES 

Home-made jam is both a convenience and a 
luxury. When well and carefully made it is not 
only superior to that which is usually offered 
for sale, but very much more economical also, 
and no store-closet -can be said to be well filled 
which does not boast a goodly show of neatly 
labelled jars of preserves. In making jam, the 
first thing to be looked after is the fruit. As a 
general rule, this should be fully ripe, fresh, 
sound, scrupulously clean and dry. It should 
be gathered in the morning of a sunny day^ as it 
will then possess its finest flavor. The best 
sugar is the cheapest ; indeed, there is no econ- 
omy in stinting the sugar, either as to quality oi 
necessary quantity, for inferior sugar is wasted 
in scum, and the jam will not keep unless a suf- 
ficient proportion of sugar is boiled with the 
fruit. At the same time too large a proportion 
of sugar will destroy the natural flavor of the 
fruit, and in all probability make the jam candy. 
The sugar should be dried and broken up into 
small pieces before it is mixed with the fruit 

272 



PRESERVES 273 

If it is left in large lumps it will be a long time 
in dissolving, and if it is crushed to powder it 
will make the jam look thick instead of clear and 
bright. The quantity to be used must depend in , 
every instance on the nature of the fruit, and 
will be found in the several recipes throughout 
this work. Fruit is generally boiled in a brasss 
or copper pan, uncovered, and this should be 
kept perfectly bright and clean. Great care 
should be taken not to place the pan flat upon the 
fire, as this will be likely to make the jam burn 
to the bottom of the pan. If it cannot be placed 
upon a stove-plate, it should be hung a little dis- 
tance above the fire. Glass jars are much the 
best for jam, as through them the condition of 
the fruit can be observed. Whatever jars are 
used, however, the jam should be examined 
every three weeks for the first two months, and 
if there are any signs of either mould or fer- 
mentation, it should be boiled over again. The 
best way to cover jam is to lay a piece of paper 
the size of the jar upon the jam, to stretch over 
the top a piece of writing-paper or tissue paper 
which has been dipped in white of egg, and to 
press the sides closely down. When dry, this 
paper will be stiff and tight like a drum. The 
strict economist may use gum dissolved in 
water instead of white of egg. The object 
aimed at is to exclude the air entirely. Jam 



274 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

should be stored in a cool, dry place, but not in 
one into which fresh air never enters. Damp 
has a tendency to make the fruit go mouldy, and 
heat to make it ferment. Some cooks cover the 
jam as soon as possible after it is poured out, 
but the generally approved plan is to let the fruit 
grow cold before covering it. In making jam, 
continual watchfulness is required, as the result 
of five minutes' inattention may be loss and 
disappointment. There are other ways of pre- 
serving fruit besides making it into jam, such 
as drying, bottling, and candying. The recipes 
for jams and these other processes will be given 
in their proper places. 



LESSON XXXII 
NUTS 

Nuts are the fruits of trees and shrubs which 
have the seed inclosed in a bony or woody cover- 
ing, not opening when ripe. Some kinds are 
dupraceous, something between a stone fruit 
and a nut. 

These fruits form the principal articles of 
food to many people in different countries. 
They are very palatable, full of nutrition, and 
easily digested. They form the milk, meat, and 
butter of the vegetarians, who are increasing in 
numbers every year in this country. We have 
generally overlooked the nut as a principal 
article of diet, contenting ourselves with serv- 
ing them after dessert. They should, however, 
not be eaten at this stage of a dinner, for they 
contain the same ingredients as the dinner 
which has gone before, in concentrated form, 
and the generally resulting uncomfortable feel- 
ing that you experience under such conditions 
is really due to the fact that, whether you know 
it or not, you have eaten two dinners or the best 
part of two. 

275 



276 THE CCX)KING SCHOOL 

Like all foods nuts are divided into classes, 
and like other articles of diet they are nitrog- 
enous and carbonaceous. 

Among those containing nitrogenous matter 
are the peanut, pecan, English walnut, almonds, 
and hickory nuts. Black-walnuts and cocoa- 
nuts are in the other class, rich in oil. Some 
kinds, such as the chestnut, should always be 
cooked when used as food, on account of the 
starch they contain. The almonds and peanuts, 
which are used all over the world, contain all 
the necessary elements for building up the tis- 
sues of the body, and enter largely into modern 
methods of cooking, the principal uses being 
salted almonds, almond butter, etc. 

The recipes in which nuts are used will be 
found under the regular heading as arranged 
in the alphabetical index. 



LESSON XXXIII 
DESSERTS 

Unlike the Englishman, who confines the 
word dessert to fruits and nuts, and would call 
what we talk about here " sweets " pure and 
simple, we Americans make the term embrace 
everything that is served at the close of the 
meal, and this idea has become so firmly fixed 
that even Webster defines the word as — " A 
service of pastry, fruit, or sweetmeats at the 
close of an entertainment; the last course at 
the table after meat. ' ' We shall not, however, 
class pastry in this division of the art of cook- 
ery. Not because it does not come within the 
definition of the term as given by Webster's 
Dictionary, but because it ought to stand alone 
in a division by itself, covering the idea that it 
would be good for the health of America if 
more of us left it alone. 

There is not much to say about the subject of 
desserts in general. There are hardly any gen- 
eral rules to be laid down in making the class of 
" sweets " in this division. They are ihdivid- 

277 



278 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

ual dishes, and must be made according to the 
individual recipes. 

The average American girl, when she comes 
to face the fact that she doesn't know how to 
broil; boil, or bake meat, bread, or vegetables, 
omits the fact that she knows something about 
making " sweets," for it is the province of 
every girl to know about them, and she at least 
may consider herself no cook, even if she is 
well up on " sweets." For the benefit of those, 
however, if any, who know not the how and 
when of such little delicacies as ice creams, 
ices, and short cakes, refer to the alphabetical 
index for a very comprehensive list of recipes in 
this division which are many of them suited to 
the beginner, easily made, and will enable to 
bring forth a new one every day. 



LESSON XXXIV 
COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 

LIQUID POQDS 

Food for invalids should be in such a form 
•hat it can be easily digested. All food is 
changed into a liquid, before it can be carried 
about by the blood, to build up the worn-out tis- 
sues. Food that is ^n a liquid form is, there- 
fore, quickly digested with the least possible 
work to the body. 

Drinks made from fruit- juices contain some 
mineral matter and acids which are wholesome 
for the blood. Used cold, they refresh the body 
and sometimes help to create an appetite for 
more nourishing food; used hot, they help to 
induce perspiration, which often assists in 
breaking up an attack of illness. 

Jellies are other preparations of fruit-juices, 
and are qlassed as liquid food, since they melt 
in the mouth. Some jellies are hardened by the 
gummy pectine in the fruit-juice, and others by 
gelatine, which is prepared from bones and ani- 
mal tissues. 

279 



280 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

GBUELS 

Gruels are semi-liquid preparations of grains. 
They contain the nourishing properties of the 
grains without the bran or solid parts. Their 
advantages are that they are rapidly and easily 
digested. 

They should be well stirred and boiled to cook 
every starch-grain and to soften the gluten, 

TEA 

Tea consists of the leaves and small stems of 
a plant growing in China, Japan, and other 
countries. Green tea is dried quickly, therefore 
it keeps its color. Tea, being stimulating in its 
effects, is not a wholesome drink for young 
people. 

The leaves contain tannin, which, if taken into 
the stomach in any quantity, will, in time, 
harden the lining membrane. Boiling the leaves 
in water draws out the tannin, therefore tea 
should never be boiled, but steeped about five 
minutes. 

The tannin or tannic acid acts on tin, produc- 
ing a poison. 

COFFEE 

Coffee is a native of warm countries. It is 
prepared from the seed of a fruit which re- 
sembles a cherry. It is a stimulant and contains 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 281 

tannin. Coffee is sometimes boiled, but is more 
wholesome if filtered. 

BEEP-TEA 

Brotb or beef -tea is a way of cooking meat by 
wMch all the juice is drawn out. It is cooked 
in a double boiler, that it may not boil and 
harden the albumen, making it indigestible. It 
is strained" through a coarse strainer so that the 
brown sediment, which is the albumen, may be 
used with the juice. It should have no fat. If 
any rises on the top of the tea, wipe it off by 
passing soft, clean paper over the surface of the 
liquid. 

MILK AS POOD FOE INVALIDS 

Milk is a wholesome liquid food for invalids. 
It is varied by serving in many ways. It con- 
tains all the substances which are necessary 
for the body in the proper proportions. 

Ice cream is a pleasant form of milk food. 
It is frozen by using ice or snow and rock-salt. 
Salt gathers moisture. When it is mixed with 
ice it gathers moisture from the ice, thus caus- 
ing it to melt. The ice in malting absorbs heat 
from thfe cream, thus causing the cream^ to 
freeze. The ice will not melt with sufficient 
rapidity to freeze the cream without the as- 
sistance of the salt. 



^ THE COOKING SCHOOL 

TOAST 

Toasted bread is wholesome if it is thor- 
oughly dried over the fire and browned. 

If starch is mixed with water and heated to a 
high degree, it changes to a gammy substance 
called dextrin, which is digestible. In a slice 
of bread, part of the starch is changed to dex- 
trin, and in toasting, if it is well dried and 
browned, the starch is largely changed. When 
the bread is browned, the dextrin changes to a 
starch-sugar, called dextrose, which is readily 
absorbed by the body. If toast is dry, and is 
masticated thoroughly, the saliva helps to di- 
gest the dextrin. 

LEMON JELLY 

1/4 box gelatine ; 14 cupful cold water ; 1 cupful 
boiling water; 1 cupful sugar; 1% lemon, rind 
and juice. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water twenty 
minutes. Pour on the boiling water, and stir 
until the gelatine is dissolved. Add the sugar, 
the juice of the lemon, and the thin, yellow rind. 
Stir until the sugar is dissolved, and strain 
through a piece of clean cheesecloth, into a cold, 
wet mould. Set in a cold place to harden. If 
put in a very cold place, it will harden in one 
hour. If it can be allowed to harden, four or 



CCX)KERY FOR INVALIDS 283 

five hours, or overniglit, the recipe may be 
doubled, with the exception of the gelatine and 
cold water, so that twice as much jelly, of a 
softer consistency, may be made from the same 
.amount of gelatine. 

By substituting for the lemon, 1 orange, i/4 
cup currant juice, or % cup juice of apricots, 
different jellies may be made from this recipe. 
If the jelly does not stiffen, soak two tablespoon- 
fuls more of gelatine in 2 tablespoonfuls cold 
water, heat the jelly until it begins to boil, stir 
it into the soaked gelatine, and cool. Try the 
experiment again if it does not succeed the first 
time. 

miSH-MOSS JELLY 

% cup Irish Moss ; 2 figs; 1 cup boiling water; 
1 lemon and orange ; Vg cup sugar. 

Soak, pick over, and wash the moss. Cut the 
figs in small pieces, pare a thin rind from the 
lemon or orange. Place the moss, figs, and 
rind in a saucepan, pour on the boiling water, 
and boil, stirring constantly for ten or fifteen 
minutes, until the liquid thickens. Add the 
sugar and fruit- juice, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, and press the mixture through a fine 
wire strainer into a cold, wet mould. Set in 
cold water. As soon as it becomes cold it will 
harden. 



284 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

LEMONADE * 

1 lemon; 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; 1 cup boil- 
ing water. 

Pour the boiling water into a bowl and cover 
it. Squeeze the lemon and add tbe juice and the 
sugar to the water. Cover and set away to cool. 
When desired for use strain, add sugar if 
wished, dilute with cold water or small pieces 
of ice. This may be served as a hot drink when 
first prepared. If sugar is added to suit the 
taste, and the mixture is frozen, it makes a 
good sherbet or water-ice. Cold water may be 
used instead of the boiling water. 

APPLE WATER 

1 apple ; 1 tablespoonful sugar ; 1 strip lemon- 
peel ; 1 cup boiling water. 

Wipe a large, sour apple — a red one is best — 
.and, without paring, cut it into thin slices. Put 
them into a bowl, add the lemon-peel, sugar, and 
boiling water. Cover, and set away to cool. 
Strain, and serve with small pieces of ice float- 
ing in it. 

KHUBAEB WATEE 

1 small stalk rhubarb; 1 strip lemon-peel; 1 
tablespoonful sugar ; 1 cupful boiling water. 

Wash the rhubarb, cut in half-inch lengths. 
Put into a bowl, add the peel, sugar, and boiling 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 285 

water. Cover and set away to cool. Strain, and 
serve cold. The peel may be omitted. 

OATMEAL GBUBL 

1 tablespoonful rolled oats; 1 cup boiling 
water ; 14 teaspoonful salt. 

Pick over tbe oatmeal. Put it into a sauce- 
pan, pour on tbe boiling water, add the salt, and 
boil, stirring often, fifteen or twenty minute,s 
or longer. If it becomes very thick, add a little 
boiling water, boil it up again, and when de- 
sired to serve, strain it quickly into a warm 
bowl, cover, and serve with sugar and milk on 
the tray. 

WHEATENA GRUEL 

1 cupful boiling water; 2 tablespoonfuls 
wheatena; % teaspoonful salt. 

Put the water and salt in a saucepan, and 
when boiling stir in the wheatena. Boil, and 
stir well ten or twenty minutes or longer. 
Then,' if necessary, as directed in the recipe 
above, strain into a hot bowl or cup, and serve 
in the same way as oatmeal gruel. 

MILK POEEIDGE 

1 tablespoonful boiling water; 1 cupful milk; 
% teaspoonful salt; % tablespoonful flour. 

Put the boiling water in an uncovered pan. 
Add the milk and salt. Mix the flour to a 



286 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

smooth paste with, a little cold milk, and when 
the milk boils stir in the flour paste and boil 
five minutes, stirring constantly. Strain into a 
cup and serve. The porridge may be varied by 
adding i^ teaspoonf ul butter when the porridge 
is ready to strain. 

TEA 

1 even teaspoonful tea ; 1 cupful freshly boil- 
ing water. 

Heat a china teapot by pduring boiling water 
into it. Let it stand a moment, pour out the 
water, put in the tea, add the freshly boiling 
water, and let the tea stand on the table, 
covered, to steep five minutes. Never boil tea. 
Cover it, while steeping, with a towel or tea- 
cosey, to keep it hot. 

HOW TO PREPABB AN OEANGE POB AN INVALID 

Take- a firm, juicy orange', and, with a sharp 
knife, take off a thick paring, cutting through 
to the pulp. Cut out each section of pulp, being 
careful not to take any of the membranes, re- 
move the seeds, and lay the sections on a pretty 
saucer. Sprinkle fine sugar over them, and 
small pieces of ice. 

TOAST 

Cut stale bread in slices quarter-inch thick, or 
in strips one inch wide. Lay the pieces in a wire 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 287 

toaster, and hold them at a little distance from 
the fire, turning them often so as to dry them 
well. When dry, hold them nearer the fire, and 
toast both sides until golden-brown. 

WATER-TOAST 

Place a pan, containing 1 pint boiling water 
and % teaspoonful salt, on the stove. Prepare 
slices of toast as above, dip them quickly in the 
boiling water, lay them on a hot dish, spread 
with butter, and serve hot. 

MILK-TOAST 

% tablespoonful butter; ^2 tablespoonful 
corn starch, or % tablespoonful flour; 1 cup 
milk, scalded; 1/2 teaspoonful salt. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the dry, 
corn starch or flour, stir well, and cook three 
minutes. Add part of the milk, boil, and stir 
to make the mixture smooth, add more milk and 
stir constantly. When all the milk is added, 
boil once, and put in the salt. Pour this sauce 
between each slice of toast and over the whole. 
Serve in a hot dish. If th© toast is preferred 
soft, dip the slices in boiling salted water, be- 
fore adding the sauce. 

ICE CKBAM 

1 cupful cream or milk; 4 teaspoonfuls sugar; 
1 even tablespoonful melted chocolate, or 1 



288 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

tablespoonful strawberries, or % teaspoonful 
lemon extract. 

Mix the sugar and cream. Melt the chocolate, 
and add a little of the cream to it, so that it will 
be thin enough to pour into the remainder of the 
cream. Put the mixture into a pail with a tight 
cover, and set this inside a larger pail or pan. 
Beat the cream, with an egg-beater, until foamy. 
Fill the space between with pounded ice and 
rock-salt, using 3 cupfuls ice to 1 cupful salt. 
Turn the small pail back and forth. Open it oc- 
casionally, being careful that na salt falls in, and 
scrape the cream from the sides. Cover and 
turn again, and repeat this process until the 
cream is hard. It will freeze, usually, in twenty 
minutes. ■, 

If strawberries are used, instead of chocolate, 
crush them, before adding them to the cream. 
If the cream is hot intended for a sick person, it 
may be flavored with "14 teaspoon vanilla. 
Water-ices and soft custard may be frozen in a 
pail in the same manner. 

EGGNOGG OK GRUEL 

1 egg; 1 tablespoonful sugar; % cupful milk 5 
sprinkle salt ; sprinkle nutmeg. 

Beat the yolk of the egg, add the sugar and 
mix. Scald the milk with the salt and nutmeg. 
Beat the white until slightly foamy, but not 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 369 

stiff, stir the milk into the yolks, and beat in 
the white lightly. Serve in a pretty cnp. If 
the eggnogg is preferred cold, the milk need not 
be scalded. 

STEAMED CUSTAED 

1 egg; 1 tablespoonful sugar; 1 cupful milk; 
sprinkle salt; sprinkle nutmeg. 

Beat the egg slightly, add the other ingredi- 
ents. Fill cups three-iquarters full of the mix- 
ture, stand them in a steamer over boiling 
waterj and steam from ten to twenty minutes, 
until firm. Watch the custard closely to see 
that it does not cook too long, so that it looks 
like curds and whey. 

BEEF-JUICE 

Scrape % pound lean, juicy beef to a fine 
pulp. Put into a double boiler, with cold water 
in the lower part, and heat gradually, keeping 
it simmering one hour, or until the meat is 
white. Strain and press out the juice, season 
with salt to taste, and serve hot. 

BEEF-TEA 

Shred % pound -lean, juicy beef, and place in 
a double boiler with 1 cup cold water and 1/2 
teaspoonful salt. Let it stand from one-half to 
1 hour, then put boiling water in the lower part 
of the boiler, and cook five or ten minutes, until 



290 THE COOKING SCHOOL 



the juice looks brown. Strain, arl serve the 
juice hot, in a pretty cup. 

lEISH-MOSS BLANCMANGE 

, 14 cup Irish moss ; 1 pint milk ; i/g teaspoonful 
salt; 1 tablespoonful sugar; sprinkle nutmeg, or 
1 inch lemon-rind. 

Soak, pick over, and wash the moss. Put it, 
with the milk, salt, and nutmeg, into the top of 
the double boiler. Cook from fifteen to thirty 
minutes, until it thickens, and will harden, if a 
little is dropped on a cold plate. Strain into a 
cold, wet mould, and set away to cool and 
harden. Serve with sugar, and milk, or cream, 

COEN-STAECH BLANCMANGE 

2 cups milk; 3 tablespoonfuls sugar; 4 even 
tablespoonfuls corn starch, 2 sprinkles salt; 2 
tablespoonfuls chocolate melted, -or 2 table- 
spoonfuls strawberries. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Add the 
sugar and salt, the chocolate, or the fresh, 
mashed strawberries, or preserved berries. 
Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk, stir 
it into the hot milk, and boil and stir it five or 
ten minutes, until it is smooth and thick. Pour 
the mixture into cold, wet cups or moulds. 
Serve cold, with sugar and milk, or cream. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 29J 

COLD CUSTAED, OB JUNKET 

1 quart new sweet milk; 1 tablespoonful 
sugar ; 1 tablespoonful liquid rennet. 

Warm the milk a little, then stir in the sugar 
and rennet, and pour the mixture into a glass or 
china dish a»nd set it where it will keep a little 
warm. If, at the end of an hour, it has not 
begun to harden, stir in 1 teaspoonful rennet ; it 
should be firm in one or two hours. Set on ice 
to become cold. Sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon and serve with cream. It should be 
eaten within an hour after it has hardened, or 
it will separate into curds and whey. 



LESSON XXXV 
MISCELLANEOUS INFOEMATION 

MEASURES 

Cup. — A common coffee-cup is the standard. 
A cup of liquids is half a pint. A cupful of but- 
ter, packed solid, is 7% ounces. A cupful of 
corn meal is 5 ounces. A cupful of stemmed 
currants, heaped up, is 6 ounces. A level cupful 
of flour is 4 ounces; 4 cups make 1 pound or 
quart. A cupful of lard is 8 ounces ; 2 cupfuls 
of lard are 1 pound or quart. A cupful of milk 
is 8 ounces. A cupful of molasses is 12 ounces. 
A cupful of oatmeal, level, is 6 ounces. A cup- 
ful of stemmed raisins is 8 ounces, or % pound. 
A cupful of granulated sugar, level, is 7 ounces. 
A rounded cupful is 1/2 pound. A cupful of 
brown sugar, level, is 6 ounces. A cupful of 
water is 8 ounces. Four level cupfuls of flour 
are 1 pound or 1 quart. 2 cupfuls of but- 
ter, packed solid, are 1 pound. % cupful of 
butter is % pound. 3 cupfuls of corn meal are 1 
pound. 2% cupfuls of powdered sugar are 1 
pound. 2 cupfuls of granulated sugar are 1 
pound. 2 cups are 1 pint. 4 cups are 1 quart. 
1 cup is equal to 4 wineglassfuls. 

292 



MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION 293 

Tablespoon. — 14 full tablespoonfuls of liquid 
make 1 cup, or % piut. 1 tablespoonful of dry 
material is 3 teaspoonfuls. 4 tablespoonfuls 
are 1 wineglassful. 8 heaping tablespoonfuls of 
solids are 1 cupful. 2 rounded tablespoonfuls 
of flour are 1 ounce. 1 heaping tablespoonful 
of the spices make 1 ounce. 2 tablespoonfuls 
of liquid make 1 ounce. 2 rounded tablespoon- 
fuls of coffee make 1 ounce. 2 rounded table- 
spoonfuls of sugar make 1 ounce. 1 large table- 
spoonful of butter is 2 ounces. 

Teaspoonful. — 3 teaspoonfuls of solids make 
1 tablespoonful. 4 teaspoonfuls of liquids are 1 
tablespoonful. 1 heaping teaspoonful of spice 
is 1/4 ounce. 2 rounded teaspoonfuls of mustard 
are i/4 ounce. 1 teaspoonful of soda: is % ounce. 
1 teaspoonful of salt is % ounce. 1 teaspoon- 
ful of pepper is % ounce. 3 level teaspoonfuls 
of tea are % ounce. 1 teaspoonful of liquid is 
1/4 ounce. 1 teaspoonful of liquid is 30 drops. 

4 cups of liquid make 1 quart. 2% cups 
powdered sugar 1 pound, or 1 quart. 1 pint of 
milk or water 1 pound. 1 pint of chopped meats 
1 pound. 9 large or 10 medium eggs 1 pound. 
1 round tablespoonful of butter 1 ounce. 1 piece 
butter size of egg 1 ounce. 1 flask of olive 
oil 1% cups, or 20 tablespoonfuls. 1 small 
flask of Foss' Extract 12 teaspoonfuls. 1 small 
flask of Foss' Extract % cup, or scant 3 table- 



294 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

spoonfuls. 1 flask of brandy II/2 cup, or 24 
tablespoonfuls. 1 flask of wine 3 cups, or 
48 spoonfuls. 

TABLE OF AVERAGE COST OF MATERIAL USED 
IN COOKING 

2 teaspoonfuls of tea 01 

1 teaspoonful of vaailla 02 

1 teaspoonful of spice 03 

1 teaspoonful of soda, and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream- 
tartar 02 

1 tablespoonf ul of butter 03 

1 taoxespoonful of wine 02 

1 tabJespoonful of brandy 04 

1 tablespoonful of olive oil 02 

2 tablespoonfuls of co£fee . . ' 05 

Butter size of an egg 05 

1 orange 03 

legg 03 

1 lemon 02 

1 cup of flour or meal 01 

1 cup of sugar 03 

1 cup of butter 15 to .20 

1 cup of 1 molasses 05 

1 cup of milk 02 

1 quart of milkman's cream 36 

1 quart of Deerfoot or heavy cream 60 

1 box gelatine 16 

1 pound of raisins 18 

1 pound of currants 10 

1 pound of citron 18 

1 pound of crackers 10 

1 pound of tapioca 07 

1 pound of rice 09 

1 pound of macaroni 18 

1 pound of spaghetti 16 

1 pound of corn starch 10 



MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION 295 

1 pound of tea 60 

1 pound of coffee 38 

1 pound of chocolate 40 

i pound of butmeg 20 

i pound of mace o . . .40 

i pound of cloves, cassia 15 

i pound of ginger , 10 

i pound of mustard .12 

i pound of herbs, ground ...... .10 

1 tumbler jelly . . .35 

1 jar marmalade < .25 

Package of whole herbs .08 

1 pound of cheese 18 

1 pound of Parmesan cheese £0 

1 peck of potatoes J25 

1 peck of apples .- 50 

1 quart of onions 10 

1 carrot OS 

1 turnip 02 

1 bunch of celery IS 

1 handful of parsley 05 

1 bunch of watercress 05 

1 head of lettuce 10 

1 can of tomatoes 15 

1 can of salmon 18 

1 can of lobster 25 

1 can of devilled ham and tongue ... . .30 

TIME TABLE FOE COOKING 

BAKING 

Baking Bread, Cake, Puddings, Meats, etc. 

Loaf Bread ^ . 40 to 60 minutes 

Eolls, Biscuit 10 to 20 minutes 

Graham Gems 30 minutes 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 minutes 

Sponge Cake 45 to 6p minutes 

Plain Cake 30 to 40 minutes 

Fruit Cake 2 to 3 hours 



296 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Cookies 10 to 15 minutes 

Bread Pudding ... ... J hour 

Bice and Tapioca Pudding 8 houxs 

Indian Pudding 2 to 3 hours 

Plum Pudding 2 to 6 houra 

Custards 15 to 20 minutes 

Steamed Brown Bread . . ... . .3 hours 

Steamed Puddings 1 to 3 hours 

Pie Crust about 30 minutes 

Potatoes 30 to 45 minutes 

Baked Beans 6 to 8 hours 

Braised Meat 3 to 4 hours 

Scalloped Dishes 15 to 20 minutes 

Beef, Sirloin, rare, per lb. . . . 8 to 10 minutes 

Beef, Sirloin, well done, per lb. . . 12 to 15 minutes 
Beef, rolled Rib or Rump . . • . 12 to 15 minutes 
Beef, long or short Fillet . . . 20 to 30 minutes 

Mutton, rare, per lb. 10 minutes 

Mutton, well done, per lb 15 minutes 

Lamb, well done, per lb. .... 15 minutes 

Veal, well done, per lb. . . . . .20 minutes 

Pork, well done, per lb 30 minutes 

Turkey, 10 lbs. weight 3 hours 

Chicken, 3 to 4 lbs 1 to 14 hours 

Goose, 8 lbs 2 hours 

Tame Duck 40 to 60 minutes 

Game Duck 30 to 45 minutes 

Grouse 30 minutes 

Pigeons 30 minutes 

Small Birds 15 to 20 minutes 

Venison, per lb 15 minutes 

Fish, 6 to 8 lbs., long thin fish .... 1 hour 
Fish, 4 to 6 lbs, thick Halibut . . . . 1 hour 
Pish, smajl 20 to 30 minutes 

FRYING 

Croquettes, Fish-Balls 1 minutft 

Doughnuts, Fritters . . . . 3 to 5 minutes 



MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION 297 



Bacon, small Fish, Potatoes 2 to 5 minutes 

Breaded Chops and Fish . . 5 to 8 minutes 

BROILING 

Steak, 1 inch thick 4 minutes 

Steak, 1^ inches thick 6 minutes 

Small, thin fish S to 8 minutes 

Thick fish 12 to 16 minutes 

Chops, broiled in paper . . . . 8 to 10 minutes 

Chicken . ■ « 30 minutes 

Liver, Tripe, Bacon 3 to 8 minutes 

BOILING 

Water, 1 quart, over gas, covered ... 4 minutes 
Water, 1 quart, over gas, uncovered , . 6 minutes 
Coffee . . . . .1 . . 3 to 5 minutes 

Tea, steep without boiling .... 5 minutes 

Corn meal 3 hours 

Hominy, fine 1 hour 

Oatmeal, coarse, steamed 3 hours 

Oatmeal, rolled 30 minutes 

Bice, steamed 45 to 60 minutes 

Rice, boiled 15 to 20 minutes 

Wheat Granules 20 to 30 minutes 

Eggs, soft-boiled ^ . . . . 3 to 6 minutes 

Eggs, hard-boiled 15 to 20 minutes 

Eggs, coddled 6 to 8 minutes 

Fish, long, whole, per lb. . . . 6 to 10 minutes 

Fish, cubical, per lb. 15 minutes 

Clams, Oysters 3 to 5 minutes 

Beef, corned or k la mode . . . . 3 to 5 hours 

Soup Stock 3 to 6 hours 

Veal, Mutton 2 to 3 hours 

Tongue . . . i • • • . 3 to 4 hours 

Potted Pigeon 2 hours 

Ham 5 hours 

Sweetbreads 20 to 30 minutes 

Sweet Com 5 to 8 minutes 

Asparagus, Tomatoes, Peas . . . 16 to 20 minutes 

20 



298 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Macaroni, Potatoes, Spinach . . . 30 to 30 minutes 
Squash, Celery, Cauliflower . . . 20 to 30 minutes 

Sprouts, Greens 20 to 30 minutes 

Cabbage, Beets, young . . . . 30 to 45 minutes 

Parsnips, Turnips 30 to 45 minutes 

Carrots, Onions, Salsify . . . . 30 to 60 minutes 

Beans, string and shell 1 to 2 hours 

Brown Bread 3 hours 

Puddings, 1 quart, steamed 3 hours 

Puddings, small 1 hour 

Freezing Ice Cream 30 minutes 



COMBINATIONS 

With oysters and clams, wMcli must always 
be served in their own shells, very cold, and on 
ice: a quarter of lemon, horseradish. Tabasco, 
oyster crackers. 

With consomme or clam soup : bread sticks, or 
crispettes. 

With chowders : pilot or water biscuit. 

With macaroni : grated Parmesan cheese or 
tomatoes. 

With prunes or cream soup : toasted sippets 
or croutons. 

With broiled fish: lemon, drawn butter, and 
parsley. 

With fried fish: potatoes Parisienne, boiled 
or creamed potatoes, tartare sauce, lemon, pars- 
ley, and potatoes fried in various ways. 

With baked fish : lemon, parsley, and the ac- 
companying gravy. 



MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION 299 

Boiled fish : egg sauce or HoUandaise, boiled 
potatoes. With all fish it is customary to serve 
hot, crisp tolls. 

Salad with fish : Cucumber salad, with French 
dressing, served with lany fishj is a palatable ac- 
companiment. 

With raw oysters or clams: cabbage, salad 
with French dressing. 

With lobster : lettuce salad, French dressing. 
Amor^ side dishes, placed on the table before 
guests' are seated,, are celery stalks, sweetr 
pickle, gherkins, or olives. 

With entrees;: Entrees are nearly always 
served with the appropriate sauce; peas, 
mushrooms, tnrfies, and crisp bread being an 
accompaniment. 

Roasts : With roasts serve potatoes and one or 
more green vegetables selected from the follow- 
ing : peas, cauliflower, string beans, young car- 
rot, lima beans, brussels sprouts, beets, hot as- 
paragus, corn, parsnips, egg plant, turnip, 
spinach, cabbage, baked or scalloped tomatoes, 
kale. Potatoes, boiled, baked, pan-browned, 
mashed, fried, afford a selection, and frequently 
baked squash, Yorkshire pudding, corn meal, 
or hominy croquettes take the place of potatoes. 

With boiled beef or pot roast: boiled pota- 
toes, baked squash, boiled turnip, carrots, or 
cabbage. 



300 THE <XX)KING SCHCXX 

With game: Serve bread, an appropriate 
sauce, and currant jelly. 

When game is served, salad with French or 
mayonnaise dressing usually accompanies it. 
Otherwise the salad takes the place of game and 
is served separately after the roast, as a course. 
When a dinner of the most formal kind is given, 
frozen punch or some ice is served also with the 
game. 

After the salad the table is cleared and des- 
sert, when it is a frozen one, is accompanied by 
petits fours or small cakes, then the cheese, 
which is a matter of selection, and toasted 
crackers ; the demi-tasse of strong black coffee 
being served with the cheese course. 

Fruit, nuts, raisins, are frequently served at 
the same time as the coffee. ' 

The garnishing is purely a matter of indi- 
vidual taste, and likewise a display of the ar- 
tistic ability which, in all oases, varies. It is a 
wise precaution to endeavor to please the eye 
as well as the taste. Lemon, parsley, water- 
cress, potato puff or croquette, rice farina made 
into squares or puffs, also pastry, form a com- 
bination to select from. 



SOUPS. 

Soup Stock 

The making of stock, frequently looked upon 
by the young housekeeper as too intricate and 
troublesome to undertake, becomes as simple 
as many other matters of cooking when divested 
of the seeming mystery surrounding it^ — a mys- 
tery arising only from the lack of a few explicit 
directions combined with the same amount of 
care and forethought necessary for success in 
other departments of culinary art. 

Stock is simply the concentrated juices of 
meat or fowl extracted by the process of long 
and gentle simmering. It is used as a nutri- 
tive basis for soup, and while there are certain 
rules to be followed, ingenuity and good judg- 
ment, combined with the ingredients at hand, 
will make it easy to produce a variety as ac- 
ceptable in the matter of soups as in the rest 
of the menu. 

Into the stock-kettle many a little left-over 
of meat or fowl or the bone of a steak or chop 
should find its way. To the carcass of a fowl 
may be added a couple of pounds of veal with 

301 



302 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

a good-sized knuckle of the same, for a wMte 
stock; brown stock may be made from a com- 
bination of meats and fowl. 

In the making of soups from stock, cooked 
vegetables, a little meat or vegetable hash, or 
even a bit of cereal left from the morning meal, 
will add substance to the thick soup; and all of 
these wUl contribute to the delicious flavor, in 
which no single one predominates, that makes 
the goodsoup so vastly different from its oppo- 
site — the one indifferently seasoned or top 
weak. 

Stock may be made i the same day it is used, 
but, rather than attempt this, it is better; to 
make one of the emergency soups, for whiph 
directions are given elsewhere. A number of 
these may be made without stock. 
. For cooking stock a steam-tight kettle is all- 
important, as it is necessary, that therp should 
be no waste by evaporation. , If a soup-digester 
is considered too expensive, a granite-ware or 
porcelain-lined kettle with a tightrfitting cover 
will answer every purpose. Do not use an iron 
kettle if it can be avoided; besides being heavy 
to handle, it rusts easily and is more difficult 
to clean. , < 

Vegetables should not be added to stock if it 
is to be kept for long, as their juices cause; it 
to ferment sooner. In summer it will be neces- 



SOUPS 303 

sary to bring to a boil and skim it every day to 
prevent its souring. v 

To prepare meats for stock, trim off all dried 
edges or useless bits, those that show any pos- 
sibility of taint, or that have come in contact 
with rusty meat-hooks. Einse off the outside 
very quickly in cold water and wipe with a 
clean cloth. Do not wash the meat after cut- 
ting it up ; the inside is clean, and each washing 
■will result in some loss of the juices. Cut the 
meat in small pieces ; crack or saw the bones to 
allow quicker and more thorough extraction of 
the juices of the meat and the gelatine of the 
bones. The marrow should be removed from 
the inside of the bones and placed in the kettle 
first; then pack in the meat and bones and 
cover with cold water in the proportion of 1 
quart of water to 1 poimd of meat. 

When cooked meats are to be used, carefully 
trim from the steak or roast any parts of fat 
or bone that have been burned in broiling or 
roasting, as these will give a bitter flavor to 
the stock. 

After adding the water to the meat and bones, 
let it stand for half an hour or more to allow 
the juices to be drawn out before heating ; then 
put the kettle over a slow fire and bring the 
contents to a gentle simmer. Never let a soup 
boil rapidly, as the rapid boiling hardens the 



304 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

outside of the meat and prevents the escape oi 
the juices, while gentle simmering extracts the 
nutritive qualities. 

Do not skim the stock as the scum begins to 
rise. This scum is simply the blood and juices 
which at this stage of the cooking coagulate and 
rise to the surface; a little later it will dis- 
integrate and be absorbed in the liquor ; to skim 
and throw it away is to lose a portion of the 
very thing we are trying to procure — the nu- 
tritive elements of the meat. 

After simmering is well begun, add the sea 
soning in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful of 
salt to a quart of water, a half saltspoon of 
ground white pepper, a celery root, or a tiny bit 
of celery seed, or the tops of celery. The leaves 
of celery, by the way, need never be thrown out, 
for, if not needed at once, they may be dried like 
any other savory herb, and put away for future 
use. Boiled in the stock before straining, they 
serve the same purpose as the seed. Add a 
sprig of parsley, and, if cloves or allspice are 
used, the whole ones are better, as they strain 
out, and the flavor is better than in the ground 
spices, however pure they are supposed to be. 

In the city markets ' ' soup bunches ' ' may be 
had for a penny or two, consisting of a sprig 
of parsley, a small carrot, a young onion, and 
whatever savory herbs are in the market, but 



SOUPS ' 305 



the housekeeper is fortunate if she can have 
her own parsley bed in her back yard or a box 
of it growing on her back porch, as it is one 
of the most useful of seasonings and garnish- 
ings. A mixture of dried sweet herbs put up 
in bottles, to be found at first-class grocers, is 
a convenience, as it saves the trouble of meas- 
uring out each one separately. A teaspoonful 
of this to one quart of stock is the right propor- 
tion. 

When the meat has cooked until reduced to 
shreds, or drops from the bones,, leaving them 
clean, strain the stock into the stock jar of 
earthen or stone ware. A rather fine strainer 
that fits the jar, or a colander into which a piece 
of cheesecloth is laid, should be used. Dip the 
stock from the kettle into the strainer, allowing 
it to run through without pressing or squeez- 
ing. By letting it stand a short time all the 
liquor will run through, leaving the scraps 
quite dry. These are of no further use. 

Stand the jar where the stock will cool 
quickly, and when cool put in the refrigerator ; 
the fat will rise to the top and form a cake hard 
enough to remove without trouble by running 
a knife around the edge of the jar. If a good 
proportion of bone has been used, the stock, 
when cold, will be a stiff jelly. The cake of fat 
on the top will help the stock to keep by exclud- 



306 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND HSH 

ing the air, and need not be removed at once, 
as a portion of it may be cut and the necessary 
amount of stock taken out. The remaitiing 
stock should be heated to allow the cake to form 
on the top again. When the fat is taken off 
it should be clarified with raw potato and added 
to the beef drippings for frying and sauteing. ' 

The stock thus made will be sufficiently clear 
for most soups, but it must be clarified if a very 
clear one is to be made. 

To clarify stock remove every particle of fat, 
beat the white of one egg for every quart of 
stock, add this and the crushed shell of the egg 
to the stock while the latter is cold, mixing it 
in very thoroughly. Put it over the fire and 
stir constantly while heating, so that the egg 
will not settle. When it has reached the boil- 
ing point leave it to simmer for ten minutes ; a 
thick scum will then have formed. Take the 
stock from the fire and add a half cup of cold 
water, let it stand a few minutes, and strain 
through a colander in which a fine napkin or 
other thin cloth, wrung out of cold water, has 
been laid. 

Do not pour the stock directly on the napkin 
or the scum will clog it, but let it first run 
through a fine wire strainer which will catch 
the scum and the shells. Either before or after 
clarifying, this stock is ready for an almost 



SOUPS 307 

endless variety of soups or consommes by the 
addition of cooked vegetables, macarom, spa- 
ghetti or vermicelli, rice or barley — or it may 
bfe used in gravies and side-dishes. 

'If dark soup is desired, it may be made by 
the addition of a little caramel or dark roux, 
or by browning some sliced vegetables or diced 
fresh meat in butter and adding it to the stock. 
To make a white stock, use vealand chicken 
in about equal parts; follow the directions for 
beef in preparing the veal, cut up and joint the 
chicken as for stewing, and proceed as for the 
other stock,, omitting in the seasoning cloves or 
any spices that will darken the stocky and using 
celery. • 

Stock from Bones 
The bones from steaks, roasts, and poultry 
may be saved till a sufificient amount is on hand; 
then crack, cover with cold water, and, as soon 
as it boils, skim ; then let it simmer four hburs ; 
after the third hour add the flavorings,' as in 
plain stock. " 

' Stock from bones is not apt to be as clear as 
wb.en made from fresh meat, and if tratispar- 
entey is desired it must be clarified.' After the 
fat has been taken from the surface, turn the 
stock into soup-l5;ettle, keeping back the sedi- 
nient in the bottom of the bowl. Wash 2 eggs, 
and beat the Vhites with the shell's in ^ eup 



308 SOUPS, CHOmiERS, AND FISH 



cold water; put this into the cold soup, mix 
carefully; let it come to a boil, add 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, and boil hard five min- 
utes. After it has stood a minute to settle, 
strain through two or three thicknesses of 
cheesecloth, wrung out of cold water. 



Stock for Consomm^ 

Take a shin of beef and a knuckle of veal, 
wipe carefully with a damp cloth; crack; then 
remove the meat from the bone, and cut into 
small pieces. Place in a saucepan or stockpot. 

Add bones and 6 quarts cold water ; cover, 
bring slowly to boiling point, and skim. 

Keep it simmering — not boiling — three hours ; 
then add an onion in which are stuck 12 cloves, 
a bay leaf, a sliced carrot, a few celery tops or 
Yz t^aspoonful celery seed, and a saltspoonful 
of pepper. Color with a little caramel. 

Simmer for another hour; strain, and set 
aside to cool. When cold remove every par- 
ticle of fat, and, if well made, you will have a 
transparent, brown, thick jelly, all rea,dy for 
use. The meat may be used in pressed meats 
or curries but will contain little nutriment. 

Beef and Chicken Stock 

Cut up the meat from a shin of beef, and 



SOUPS 309 

place it with the bone, well chopped, in a soup- 
kettle. Add a fowl which has been cleaned 
and jointed. Put in 5 quarts cold water, sim- 
mer gently till the fowl is thoroughly tender, 
when it may be taken out for use. Continue 
cooking the stock for three hours, season, and 
finish as in consomme stock. 

Beef BouUlon 

2 or 3 pounds of beef from the round ; a shank 
bone weighing half as much as the meat ; 2 full 
quarts water; 1 onion; 1 stalk celery; 1 small 
carrot, diced ; 1 teaspoon salt ; 1 saltspoon pep- 
per or 3 peppercorns ; 2 or 3 cloves ; 2 teaspoon- 
fuls mixed herbs or % teaspoonful kitchen bou- 
quet; 1 bay leaf; 1 sprig parsley; 1 teaspoonful 
caramel. 

Dice one-half the meat, stick the cloves in the 
onion, and saute quickly together in marrow 
from the bones or a little butter until the meat 
is a rich brown, taking care that the onion does 
not burn. Cut the rest of the meat in small 
pieces and put all in the kettle with the bones. 
Add the cold water and simmer gently four or 
five hours, then add the seasoning, celery, and 
carrot, and simmer an hour longer. The quan- 
tity should then be reduced to about 3 pints. 
Strain and cool ; remove the fat, and clear with 
egg in the same manner as soup stock. Heat, 



310 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

add the caramel, or, if preferred, one or two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry. Serve hot in cups. 

Beef Soup 

3 or ^4 pounds beef from the round; 1 shin- 
bone ; 1 onion, sliced ; 1 quatt water to each 
pound meat and bones; 1 teaspoon salt ;^ 3 or 4 
cloves ; 14 teaspoon pepper. 

Einse and wi^e the meat and cut in two or 
three pieces, just sufficient to pacb closely with 
the bones in the kettle. Have the bone well 
cracked. Stick the cloves in the meat. Pack 
bones and meat in the kettle with the slices of 
onion between. Pour the cold water over fit 
and cover closely and let it stand half an hour; 
then heat slowly and simmer for five or six 
hours, when the bones should be clean and the 
meat very tender, but not broken 'in pieces. 
Lift out the bone and any gristly pieces, add 
the salt and pepper, and leave the meat to cool 
in the liquor. 

The next morning take off the cake of fat 
that will have formed on the top, take out>tl|.e 
meat, and set aside to use for hash, meat balls, 
etc. When ready to make the soup, heat and 
strain, add any vegetables liked, season more 
highly, according to taste» or clear with . egg 
and serve as a consomme or bouillon. 

Made in- this way the stock can be used a.s a 



SOUPS sn 

basis for any soup, and the meat will retain the 
goodness and flavoi. It is also made with less 
trouble than many soups. 

Beef Tea -Noi 1 

Take from 1 to 2 pounds of lean beef 
from the rump; cut off every particle of fat, 
and cut the meat into dice. Put it into a bottle 
and cork tightly. Tie down the cork, if neces- 
sary. Or it may be put in a fruit jar with a 
screw top and tightly sealed. Put the bottle 
in a deep saucepan with cold water enough to 
reach at least two-thirds to the top of the 
bottle; let it heat slowly, and boil Wenty min- 
utes or thirty. By this time the juice should be 
well extracted from the meat. Strain off the 
liquor and season with salt and pepper as re- 
quired. 

Beef Tea-No. 2 

1 pound meat, 1 pint cold water. The 
meat should be juicy, having as little fat as 
possible. After removing the skin and all the 
fat, cut the meat into small pieces, and put into 
a bowl with the water. Let stand for several 
hours in a cool place, until the meat has parted 
with its juices. Then heat slowly until it be- 
comes steaming hot; remove from the fire and 
strain, to remove the meat. Cool quickly as 
possible, in order not to absorb any odors from 
the room. Serve hot or cold, seasoning it when 



312 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

used. If reheated, care must be taken to heat 
no more than to steaming point. 

Brunoise Soup 

Slice equal quantities of carrots, turnips, 
onions, leeks, and celery, and fry until brown, in 
plenty of butter. Put them in a saucepan and 
pour over stock enough to about half cover, and 
boil briskly until it is reduced to a paste. Pour 
in sufficient clear soup to make the desired quan- 
tity, and bring to a boil. Prepare some Italian 
paste, boil it separately and mix it with the 
soup, or use boiled rice with rings of turnip 
sliced and fried brown in butter. Serve very 
hot with croutons of bread. 

Chicken Soup with Leeks and Onions 

Cut white meat of chicken into dice and 
brown them in a saucepan with a tablespoonful 
of butter and a sliced onion. Pour over them 
three pints of chicken consomme, add 3 leeks 
sliced, a sprig of parsley, and 2 or 3 celery tops. 
Season with salt and pepper, and half a blade 
of mace. Boil half an hour, remove the pars- 
ley, celery top, and mace, and serve with sip- 
pets of fried bread. 

Chicken Soup Quickly Made 

Cut the meat of half a chicken in small pieces. 
Slice a smaU onion, put it in a saucepan with a 



SOUPS 3»3 

tablespoonful of butter, when hot add the 
chicken and fry together for ten or fifteen 
minutes, turning the chicken around often until 
well browned. Add 3 pints of consomme or 
good, clean, white stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
well-washed rice, a dash of cayenne, a teaspoon- 
ful of minced parsley, and salt as ne/eded. Sim- 
mer all together twenty minutes and serve. 

Clear Soup with Egg Balis 

Pee] and slice enough carrots, onions, and 
green leeks to make a pint; cut a small young 
cabbage into thin shreds, put all in a saucepan 
with a piece of butter the size of an egg, cover 
and put over a slow fire and cook until quite 
tender, shaking the pan or stirring carefully 
several times to be sure that they do not stick 
to the bottom of the pan. When the vegetables 
are cooked, pour over them 3 pints of clear stock 
and boil thirty minutes. 

To make the egg balls : Beat ^ of a pound of 
slightly softened butter until very creamy, then 
beat in slowly 3 tablespoonfuls of flour and 3 
well-beaten eggs. Beat until very smooth. 
Strain the soup and return it to the saucepan, 
and when it boils roll the paste into small round 
balls with the hands, dipping them frequently 
in cold water to prevent the balls from sticking, 
drop them into the boiling soup and cook 

21 



3J4 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

steadily for fifteen miButes, pour into the soup 
tureen and serve. 

ConsommS Almond 

Blanch and chop fine two dozen almonds ; naix 
with an equal quantity stale bread crumbs; 
season with 1/2 saltspoonful salt, and add 
enough of the white of 2 eggs to bind the whole 
together; mix thoroughly, and form into tiny 
baUs, roll them in the remainiug white of egg, 
and drop iuto hot oil — not butter. 

If you do not use oil, take ordinary frying 
material — suet or lard. Shake till the balls are 
golden brown, lift with a skimmer, drain for an 
instant on soft browri paper, then put into 
tureen and turn over nicely seasoned hot stock. 

Calf's Foot Consomme 

Simmer 2 calf s feet and a quarter of a pound 
of veal in 3 quarts of water until it is reduced 
to 3 pints. Season with salt, a few blades of 
mace, and a little nutmeg. Strain through a 
colander, remove the fat, and place on ice to 
cool. 

Consomme Amber 

3 pounds veal-knuckle; 3 pounds beef shin; 
2 pounds young fowl; 2 medium-sized onions; 
1 small carrot; 1 small turnip; 2 stalks celery 
with the tops ; 2 sprigs parsley ; 2 teaspoonfuls 
mixed sweet herbs; 2 blades mace; 6 whole 



; ;. SOUPS - .... 3J5 

cloves,; 6 iwrtiole allspice ; ^ teaspoonfuls salt ; 1 
saltspoon wliite pepper; 1 bay leaf; 1 lemon; 
3 egg whites and shejls; 4 quarts water. .^fi 

Wipe and cut, the meat in small pieces, crack 
all the bones; cut up and wash the cMcken. 
Put them all in the kettle with the cold water, 
let it stand half an hour, then heat slowly. 
When, boiling add the vegetables, chopped or 
sliced, the herbs and other seasoning, and sim- 
mer slowly six hours. By this time the meat 
should be in shreds and the bones clean. 
Strain and let it cool. When cold take off the 
fat, put on the fire, and while still cold add the 
egg whites and shells, and the lenion washed and 
sliced, and more salt, if necessary. Mix well, 
heat, and boil ten minutes. Strain thridii^ a 
napkin, wet- and laid inside a fine ,straiQer. It 
should be clear and of a beautiful amber ,/Qo^or. 
Just before, serving heat, and add 2 tablegpoou- 
fuls of sherry. If not colored enough, a,did,a 
very little caramel, or enough to give it the de- 
sired color. Serve a small. quantity only. 

To the amber consomme may be made many 
additions, changing the character and giving it 
the name of the principal addition. 

Consomm^ with Egg Balls 

3 pints eonsomme ; 2 egg yolks, hard-boiled; 
2 egg whites, beaten stiff. 



316 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

The eggs may be separated and the yolks 
dropped carefully into boiling water and boiled 
hard. Mash them, add one-half as much 
cracker flour as egg, season with salt and cay- 
enne, moisten with cream, and bind with raw 
egg. Make into balls the size of marbles. 
Drop these into the boiling consomme, cook five 
minutes, add a dash of nutmeg and a table- 
spoonful of wine. Serve with sL spoonful of the 
stiffly beaten whites of egg on the top of each 
plate. 

Consommd with Brussels Sprouts 

Cook sufficient Brussels sprouts in salted 
water until tender, add them to 3 pints of con- 
somme amber. 

Consomm^ with Cucumber 

Peel and cut two cucumbers in dice, stew half 
an hour in salted water, drain, and add to the 
hot consomme. Serve with small croutons. 

Consomme with Asparagus Tips 
To 3 pints of hot consomme add 1 cup of 
asparagus tips cooked in salted water until 
tender, but not broken. Color a delicate green 
with spinach juice. Serve with soup sticks, 
rolled the size of the forefinger, and cut six 
inches in length ; bake a number of ^rings 
made by joining the ends of these pieces to 



SOUPS 3J7 

make a circle, bake and serve one ring to each 
plate, filled with as many of, the sticks as the 
ring will hold easUy. 

Consommd with Vermicelli 

Break the vermicelli into pieces one and 
a half to three inches in length, cook in boiling 
salted water, blanch and simmer for fifteen 
minutes in the consomme. Allow a tablespoon- 
fnl of the vermicelli, before cooked, to each 
plate. Spaghetti or macaroni or any of the 
Italian paste? may be used instead of the vermi- 
celli. With spaghetti or macaroni sprinkle 
grated Parmesan cheese over the top of each 
plate, and serve at once. 

Consomm6 with Mushrooms 

Cut into small cubes enough mushrooms to 

make a pint. Saute them in butter, add to 3 

pints of consomme, let them simmer fifteen 

minutes, add % glass of sherry and a little 

utmeg. Let it heat up, and serve. 

Marrow Balls for Consomm^ 

Mix together % cup soft bread crumbs with 
% cup chopped marrow; add 1 saltspOonful 
salt, % teaspoonful onion juice, and a dash of 
pepper J then stir in the yolk of an egg. Make 
into small balls, roll quickly in the white of an 
egg, and drop into boiling water. They will 



/ 

318 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

sink at first, but will soon come to the surface, 
and when they float, in two to three minutes — 
take out with skimmer into tureen, — ^then pour 
over the hot stock. 

Colbert Consomme 

Allow 1 egg to each person, and poach care- 
fully while the stock is being heated. When 
the hot consomme has been seasoned, tui'n into 
heated tureen, and gently drop in the poached 
eggs ; serve at once. 

Duchess- Consomm^ 

, Mix thoroughly,!/^ cup bread crumbs, % cup 
soft cheese, 1 egg, 1 saltsjpopnful salt, and a 
dash of cayenne; form into little balls, roll in 
egg and drop quickly into boiling water ; if put 
into the stock, it will become clouded. Take 
them up with skimmer, put into hot tureen, pour 
over them the boiling stock. 

Consomm^ d I'lmp^ratrice 

An Elaborate Dinner Soup 

Blend a tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour in a saucepan ; add -J cup milk, stir^ till 
it boils, and add i^ teaspoonful onion juice, 1 
tablespoonful chopped parsley, % saltspoonfuj 
mace, salt and pepper, and % cup chopped 
chicken; mix thoroughly and turn out tp; cool. 
At serving time make this intoi , small balls, 



SOUPS 3J9 

roll in egg, and drop quickly into hot fat or oil, 
brown and drain on soft paper. Have % pint 
of fresh green peas and 4 tahlespoonfnls of rice 
carefully boiled, and put in soup tureen — ^turn 
in hot chicken consomme — drop in the force- 
meat balls, and serve at once. 

Cpnsotnm^ Chestnut 

Blanch two dozen chestnuts, cook till tender 
in a pint of stock; drain and salt slightly. 
After the chicken consomme has been turned 
into tureen, drop in the chestnuts carefully, as 
they are easily broken. 

Consommd Curry 

Cook a tablespoonful butter and a sliced 
onion slowly together without browning the 
butter; put this into soup-kettle with a large, 
sour apple cored and sliced without paring, a 
sprig of thyme and parsley, a bay leaf, a table- 
spoonful lemon juice, 1 level teaspoonful salt, 
and 1 teaspoonful curry powder. Stir all to- 
gether, and add 1 quart chicken stock; simmer 
gently ten minutes ; put 2 tablespoonf Uls boiled 
rice into tureen, strain over the hot soup, and 
serve at once. 

Consomme Spinach 

Wash the leaves from a pint of spinach, put 
into a dry kettle, and sprinkle with a saltspoon- 



320 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

f ul of salt ; put at first over a moderate heat till 
the spinach, softens, then push over to a hotter 
part of the stove and stir for five minutes; 
drain, chop fiAe, and press through a sieve ; mix 
with this a well-beaten egg, a drop of Tabasco, 
and a saltspoonful salt. 

Put this into shallow pan, set it-in another 
of boiling water, and cook in the oven until 
solid. Cut into fancy shapes, put into soup 
tureen, and turn over the seasoned hot stock. 

Consommd with Tomato Blocks 

Use tomato conserve, or the thickest part of 
canned tomatoes, put through a sieve, and cook 
slowly to a thick paste. To a half -cup of this 
add a tiny bit of ground mace, 14 saltspoonful 
salt and Tabasco, and the slightly beaten white 
of 2 eggs; pour into shallow dish, stand in a 
pan of water, and cook in oven till well set ; cut 
into fancy blocks. 

Turn hot consomme into tureen and carefully 
drop in the blocks. 

This may be varied by substituting peas for 
the tomatoes, seasoning with celery seed and 
pepper instead of Tabasco. 

Consomme Royal 

Beat 1 egg thoroughly; add 2-tablespoonfuls 
clear stock, % teaspoonful onion juice, a salt- 
spoonful salt, and i/^ saltspoonful pepper. Mix 



SOUPS 321 

well and turn into a small custard cup; stand 
this in a pan of hot water and cook in the oven 
till the custard is set, turn out, and cut into 
dice — or cook in a shallow pan and cut in fancy 
blocks ; put these into tureen and pour over hot 
seasoned stock. 

Consommd Printani^re 

Cut 2 small carrots and a turnip into fancy 
shapes with a vegetable cutter or scoops; sim- 
mer twenty minutes in salted water with an 
equal amount of asparagus tips and green 
peas. Drain, and put them into 3 pints of- 
clear stock; let it cook ten minutes longer; add 
more salt and pepper if needed, and serve. 

Cr6cy Soup 

Wash and scrape one large carrot ; shave off 
the outer part, leaving the core. Cook with an 
onion in boiling water until tender, then rub 
through a strainer. Add to 1 quart of hot 
stock, season with salt and pepper and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Serve with croutons. 

English Beef Soup 

Take 2V^ pounds of lean beef, cut off and lay 
aside about % of a pound, and pass the remain- 
der through the meat chopper. Pour over it 
3 pints of cold water, let stand for half an hour, 
then heat gradually, and simmer for three 



322 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

hours, then strain. Boil separately until tender 
2 tablespoonfuls of fine barley and % of a cup- 
ful of diced carrot. Cut the reserved piece of 
meat into tiny pieces, peel and thinly slice one 
small onion, and brown with the meat in a 
spoonful of drippings. Add 1 scant cupful of 
finely cut celery and 1 cupful of boiling water 
and simmer for an hour. Stir in 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour smoothly mixed with cold water, 
add gradually the meat stock, and stir for a few 
moments. Briag to the boiling point, add the 
. previously cooked carrot and barley, % of a 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire, 1 tablespoonful 
of tomato catsup, and salt and pepper to taste, 
then simmer for ten minutes longer. 

Giblet Soup 

Clean either chicken or goose or duck giblets, 
and cut the gizzard into 1/2-iiich cubes. Put all 
into a stewpan containing a small piece of lean 
ham cut iuto dice. Fry the giblets a few min- 
utes, then add 2 quarts of good stock, an onion 
stuck with cloves, thyme, or parsley; 2 sprigs 
of marjoram, a few celery seeds tied in a muslin 
bag, a teaspoonful of pepper. Simmer gently 
for two hours, then remove the giblets and put 
them into a tureen. Strain the .soup, and 
thicken with a tablespoonful of flour cooked 
with one of butter until slightly browned. Let 



SOUPS 323 

the soup boil for fifteen , minutes, then return 
the giblets long enough to get hot, and serve 
with toasted sippets. 

Hasty Soup 

* Mince together a pound, of lean beef, mutton, 
pr veal, a small turnip, a small carrot, half ah 

' ounce of celery, the white part of a medium- 
sized leek, or a very small onion. Put into a 
deep saucepan with 3 pints of cold wiater. 
When the soup boils, take o&\ the scum and 
season with salt and pepper. It can be served 

j)^ith or without straining, and should be cOoked 
only about half an hour. A little catsup is ail 
addition. 

White Soup 

In this soup veal is substituted for chicken. 

Put a large' knuckle of veal in 3 quarts pf cold 
water over a slow fire; let it simmer for three 
hours ; skim often. Strain, and add a bay l^af , 
a carrot, a turnip, a blade of mace, a snaall 
^ohion^ 2 cloves, a sprig of parsley, and a few 
stalks celery. Boil half an hour and strain. 
When it has jellied, take equal amounts of the 
jelly and cream, and use as in celeiy cream 
soup. 

Julienne Soup ,, ,^^ 

2 quarts stock; 2 carrots; 1 turnip; 1; he^d 
•celery; 2 onions; 1 head cauliflower; 1 bead let- 



324 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

tuce; 1/^ gill green peas; 1 pint asparagus 
heads. 

Pare and cut up all the vegetables, cut the 
celery into bits, the head of cauliflower into 
flowerets. Put them into a kettle, cover with. 
boUing water; boil fifteen minutes, then drain 
them in a colander. Melt the stock and bring 
to a boil, put the vegetables in, and simmer half 
an hour. Put the peas and asparagus heads 
into boiling water and simmer them for twenty 
minutes ; then drain to the boiling soup, then the 
lettuce cut into pieces or chopped, which should 
be cooked about ten minutes. Add salt and 
pepper to taste, and serve at once. 

Russian Julienne Soup 

Cut 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, a celery root, 
and 1 leek into dice. Shred 1 onion and 1 
small cabbage. Cut also enough mushrooms to 
equal the whole of the other vegetables. Fry 
in a saucepan the leeks and onions in a little 
butter, taking care that they do not color. Put 
in all the other vegetables and the mushrooms, 
and cook gently until the moisture of the mush- 
rooms is drawn out. Pour over enough rich 
broth to nearly cover, and cookimtil quite thick; 
pour over 3 quarts of boiling broth and simmer 
for an hour longer, adding salt and pepper to 
taste, and a little fimely minced fennel. Now 



SOUPS 325 

strain in sour cream enough to thicken, stirring 
briskly. 

To 1)6 strictly Eussian, this soup requires to 
be served accompanied by meat patties, rissoles, 
or croquettes. 

Left-over Soup 

Cut up the bones and trimmings from a 6- 
pound roast of beef, 2 cold mutton chops, the 
uncooked end of sirloin steak, and put over the 
fire in 4 quarts cold water, to which add 1 table- 
spoonful salt, 4 cloves, 4 peppercorns, a cold 
fried egg, 2 baked apples, a cup cold boiled 
onions, 2 stalks celery, and 1 tablespoonful 
mixed herbs. 

Let all simmer till the meat separates from 
the, bones, and the water is reduced one-half. 
Strain ; next morning remove the fat, heat stock 
to boiling point, warm with it 1 cup cold to- 
matoes or macaroni, and add more seasoning 
if needed. 

Mulligatawny Soup 

Mulligatawny is a very highly seasoned soup, 
hot with curry powder, and has the acid of some 
fruit, as lime, or lemon juice, or tart apple. It 
is said to be of Indian origin, the word meaning 
" pepper pot." 

1 good-sized chicken; Ipoimd veal with bones, 
or a quart of veal stock; Yz cup cold ham, cut 



326 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

fine; 1 carrot; 1 stalk celery; 2 onions; 1 cup 
tomatoes; 4 quarts water; 1 tart green apple; 
i pound sweet almonds; 1' teaspoon sugar; 
3 or 4 cloves ; 3 or 4 pepper-corns ; 2 tea- 
spoonfuls salt ; 1 tablespoonful good tvutte,r or 
clear beef drippings ;. 2 teaspoopfuls chutney ; 
1 or 2 drops Tabasco. 

Clean, joint, and cut up the chicken. Cut the 
veal in small pieces and crack the bones. Put 
into .the. soup-kettle with the chopped hanii, pottr 
the cold water over it, and let it come slowly 
to a boil. Slice the onion and fry a light brown 
in the butter or drippings. Slice the carrot, 
apple, celery, and tomatoes. Put these in the 
kettle, add the cloves and peppers. Mix the 
curry powder, salt, and sugar to a paste, moist- 
ening with a little lemon juice or the liquor from 
the soup. Add this and the lemon, cut in 
quarters and sliced. 

Pound the almonds to a paste in a mortar, 
moistening with milk. Strain this into the soup, 
and let aU simmer until the chicken is tender; 
remove the chicken and veal and cut the meat 
from the bone. Eeturn the bones to the kettle 
and continue to simmer until the bones are 
clean; then strain and skina. Put over the fire 
and add the meat cut in nice pieces; add the 
Tabasco and chutney and 2 tablespoons boiled 
rice. As soon as tlioroughly heated, serve. 



SOUPS 327 

Onion Soup (Spanish) 

Peel and slice 3 large Spanisli onions; sep- 
arate them into rings and fry in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter until tender and slightly browned. 
Put them in a saucepan, add 2 quarts of water, 
and boil an hour ; season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Crumble the inside of a stale roll, sift 
and add to the soup, and boil for an hour longer. 
When just ready to serve, add the yolks of 2 
eggs, beaten light, and mixed with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar and a few spoonfuls of the soup, 
pouring in gradually and stirring briskly one 
way. Pour into the tureen, and serve at once. 

Oxtail Soup 

1 large oxtail; 1 onion; 1 small slice fat salt 
pork or 1 tablespoonful beef drippings; 2 
quarts water; 1 carrot; 1 stalk celery; 2 tea- 
spoonfuls salt ; 2 cloves ; 2 peppercorns, % salt- 
spoonful paprika; a sprig of parsley; a little 
thyme; a blade of mace. 

Wash and cut up the oxtail, separating at 
each joint; divide the thick parts into four. 
Slice the onion and the saute in the hot pork or 
beef drippings. When the onion begins to 
brown, put in half of the oxtail and brown. Put 
this with the other in the soup-kettle, add the 
cold water, and when it comes to a boil add the 
carrot, celery, parsley, mace, and thyme, the 



328 SOUPS, CHOWDERS. AND HSH 

cloves, peppers, and salt, and let it simmer until 
the oxtail is tender and begins to fall from the 
bones. 

Lift out some of the nicest pieces of oxtail 
and remove the meat from the bones, cut it 
small, and set aside to be served in the soup. 

Strain the liquor, skim off the fat, add the 
pieces of meat, more salt if necessary, and a 
little paprika. Boil up and add half a glass 
madeira or port. Serve with soup sticks. 

This soup, if made carefully, should be clear. 
■ If a thick soup is desired, brown a little of the 
fat in a saucepan, mix in very smoothly a table- 
spoon of flour, and stir in before putting in the 
piece of meat. It may also be varied by put- 
ting in the vegetables after the stock has been 
strained. They should then be diced and boUed 
in the stock until tender, but not broken. 

BROTHS 

Chicken Broth 

1 good-sized chicken; 1 small onion; 2 table- 
spoonfuls rice ; 1 quart water ; 2 tablespoonfuls 
rich cream; 1 teaspoonful salt; % saltspoonful 
white pepper. 

Clean the chicken; cut up and separate it at 
the joints. Take off all the skin and fat. Put 
it in a saucepan with the sliced onion, cover with 



SOUPS 329 

the water, bring to a boil, aud simmer slowly. 
Wben the chicken i^ tender take it out, slice q& 
the best parts of the meat, put the remainder 
back in the kettle with the salt and pepper, and 
simmer until the bones are clean; Strain, and 
remove all the fat. Have the rice well washed 
and soaked for half an hour in water enough 
to cover, put it in the broth, and cqok until the 
rice is tender. 

Add the cream, some of the nicest pieces of 
chicken, and more seasoning if necessary. 

Serve very hot with crisp, thin crackers. 

Mutton Broth 

1 pound lean, juicy mutton; 1 small onion; 
1 quart water ; 2 tablespoonfuls rice ; 1 tea- 
spoonful salt; % saltspoon pepper. A little 
cayenne or a veri^ little curry powder if liked. 

Rinse and wipe the mutton and cut into small 
pieces. If there are bones, crack them. Cover 
with the cold water and heat slowly. Add the 
onion and simmer until the meat is in rags. 
Strain, and when cool, remove every particle of 
fat. Eeturn to the fire, add the salt and other 
seasoning, and, as soon as it boUs, put in the 
rice, which has been well washed and soaked in 
cold water for half an hour. Simmer until the 
rice is tender, and serve with thin squares ©f. 
delicately browned toast. ; 

Z2 



330 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

A little celery salt helps to overcome the mut- 
tony taste that is objectionable to some persons, 
but this is lessened by the addition of the onion, 
the flavor of which is lost in that of the mutton, 

Scotch Mutton Broth 

Soak 6 pounds mutton in water for an hour, 
then place in stewpan with three quarts of 
water. As soon as it boils skim, well, and then 
simmer for an hour and a half. Cut best end 
of mutton into cutlets, dividing it with 2 bones 
in each ; take nearly all the fat off before put- 
ting it into the broth; skim the moment the 
meat boils, and every ten minutes afterward. 
Add 5 carrots, 5 turnips, and 2 onions, all cut 
up fine ; then stir in 4 tablespoonfuls of Scotch 
barley, and salt to taste. Let all stew together 
for three and a half hours. About half an hour 
before sending it to the table put in a little 
chopped parsley. 

Chicken Gumbo 

1 chicken or old fowl; 2 slices breakfast 
bacon; 1 large onion; 1 pint okra, cut small; 1 
cup green corn; 1 green pepper; 1 can or 1 
quart tomatoes ; 2 quarts hot water ; 1 teaspoon 
salt ; % teaspoon pepper ; 1 bay leaf j 1 teaspoon 
curry; 1 tablespoonful gumbo filee powder. 

Dress and cut up the chicken ; wash and wipe 



SOUPS 33J 

it. Fry tlie sliced onion with the bacon until 
only slightly brown. Put this in the kettle with 
the chicken, pour in the water and cook until 
very tender, and the bones will fallout. Take the 
chicken out and remove all the bones, skim fat, 
and cut the meat in small bits. Strain the 
liquor through a coarse strainer, return the 
chicken, put in all the vegetables, the curry 
powder and bay leaf, and cook until the okra- 
begins to " rope "; then add the gumbo files 
powder. 

Serve with plain boiled rice or rice balls. The 
gumbo filee powder may be obtained in bottles 
at all first-class grocers '. 

Chicken Gumbo with Oysters 

Strain the liquor from one quart of oysters, 
scald and skim it, and add to the soup with the 
vegetables. Pick the oysters over and rinse 
them in cold water, and put them in the boiling 
soup just before serving, giving them time to 
plump, and serve immediately, without the rice 
or rice balls. 

Oyster Gumbo 

Put a Spanish onion in 4 tablespoonfuls olive 
oil, and cook till tender and slightly brown. 
Add 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 sweet chili peeled 
and chopped fine, and 1 pint okra. Cover for 
fifteen minutes, then add 100 drained oysters; 



332 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

let this come quickly to a boil, put in 1 table- 
spoonful filee, turn into soup tureen, and serve 
with, nicely boiled rice. 

Gumbo Filde Soup 

Wash and slice a quart of okra, cook iu a pint 
of water till tender; while cooking prepare a 
fowl as for fricassee, and chop i/4 pound lean 
ham. Cook a sliced onion in 4 tablespoonfuls 
olive oil till brown, add the chicken and ham, 
stir till the chicken is slightly browned, then 
add a pint boiling water, and simmer till the 
chicken is perfectly tender. At serving time 
mix the okra (gumbo) with the chicken; add 
50 oysters, drained; bring quickly to a boil. 
Moisten a tablespoonful of filee powder in a 
little of the soup, stir it into the whole, and 
serve. Do not let the soup boil after adding 
the powder. Salt and pepper to taste. 

This is one of the favorites taken from a pet 
list of Creole recipes. 

Irish Soup, or Balnamoon Skink 

Put a couple of fowls into a pot, and boil until 
their juices are thoroughly extracted and the 
broth is rich and good. One of the fowls may be 
trussed as for boiling and removed as soon as 
cooked; but they are best cut up when intended 
only for soup. When well cooked, strain the 



SOUPS 333 

soup throTigli a colander into a clean saucepan. 
Season with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, chives, 
and chopped onions. Add celery, lettuce, and, 
if in season, green peaS. Stew until the vege- 
tables are tender. 2 eggs, well beaten, added 
to a cup of cream and stirred into the soup, will ' 
greatly improve it. The trussed fowl is some- 
times served in the tureen with the soup. 
When sent to the table separately, thicken some 
of the broth and pour it over the fowl. 

Kale Brose 

Take an ox-heel, clean it thoroughly, and pour 
over it 5 pints of cold water ; simmer for four 
hours, removing the scum that rises to the top. 
Meanwhile take 2 large handfuls of greens, 
cleanse and free from insects, then shred finely, 
and put into the broth. When sufficiently 
cooked, stir % pint of toasted oatmeal into a 
little of the fat broth (this should be stirred in 
with the handle of a spoon, and stirred very 
quickly, so as to prevent it massing in one 
lump). Add to the rest, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Let all boil up together, and serve as 
hot as possible. For six people. 



334 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

CREAM SOUPS 

An important point in preparing cream 
soups is to be sure the milk is absolutely fresh, 
and then, to guard against curdling, to drop 
into it a pinch of baking soda. A cream soup 
that is curdled is not pleasant, and should of 
course not be served. Do not let the soup boij 
after it is ready. 

Duchess Soup 

Slice 2 large onions and fry them ten minutes 
in 2 tabiespoonfuls of butter. Add gradually 
2 tabiespoonfuls of flour and stir two or three 
minutes, or until smooth; then pour in slowly 
a quart of boiling mUk, season with salt and 
pepper, and let it simmer fifteen minutes, stir- 
ring frequently. Strain and return it to the 
fire, and add 2 tabiespoonfuls of grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Beat 3 eggs very light, pour 
them through a strainer into the soup; stir 
briskly for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. 
Serve with toasted croutons or fried sippets. 

Almond Milk Soup 

Blanch % pound of almonds and brown in the 
oven; while crisp and hot, mash to a powder 
with a rolling pin. Scald 1 quart of milk, add 
a tablespoonful of butter rolled in a tablespoon- 
ftil of flour, and the almonds. Cook five min- 



SOUPS 335 

ates, add a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of 
cayenne, and serve hot with croutons. 

Peanuts may be used in the same manner ; or 
cook 1 cupful of shelled and blanched peanuts 
with % cupful of lentils for one hour, in liy^ 
quarts of water, adding a slice of onion, a spray 
of parsley, and a stalk of celery. When tender 
rub through a puree sieve and add salt and pep- 
per. Return to the fire and thicken with a 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in a tablespoon- 
ful of flour. 

Macedoine Soup 

Put in the bottom of a porcelain or agate 
saucepan as many thin slices of ham as will 
cover it. On top of this put a thick layer of 
chopped turnips, one of potatoes, and one of 
onions, in equal quantities. Add a few sprigs 
of parsley and a blade of mace. Pour over a 
quart of stock and simmer gently until reduced 
to a pulp. Strain the soup through a fine sieve ; 
return to the fire, season with salt, pepper, a 
teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, add a pint of 
hot cream ; stir until thoroughly hot, and serve 
in a tureen. 

Queen Soup 

Wash and stew a fowl for an hour with 
enough strong veal broth to cover the meat and 
a bunch of parsley. Eemove the fowl, cut the 



336 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND HSH 

meat off, and take away the skin. Pound the 
flesh in a mortar and add some bread crumbs, 
that have been soaked in the liquor, and the 
yolks of 5 hard-boiled eggs. Eub this through 
a course s^eve, then add a quart of scalded cream. 

Cream Cheese Soup— No. 1 

Pl^ee a pint of v§al stock over the fire; add 
an onion, and boil for fifteen minut;es. Strain 
out the onion, and return the stock to the fire. 
Bring a pint of milk to the scalding point, 
thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
into one of butter ; season with celery salt and 
white pepper, and add to the veal stock. Beat 
the yolks of 2 eggs until they are light, stir into 
the veal stock with the thickened milk, add 4 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and 
serve. 

Cream Cheese Soup— No. 2 

Stir together in a saucepan 1 scant cupful 
of flour, ^ pint of rich cream, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same 
amount of butter, with a sprinkling of cayenne. 
Set the saucepan in a pan of hot water and stir 
until it forms a smooth paste. Break 1 egg 
into the mixture,, stir briskly until thoroughly 
felended; and let it cook five minutes, and set 
it away to cool. Form the cool paste into balls 
abou,t the size of a walnut, drop them into/^oil- 



SOUPS 337 

ing water, and cook five mimites. Put them in 
the soup tureen, pour over them; boiling stock, 
and serve at once with a dish of grated Par- 
mesan. 

Tomato Cream Soup— No. 1 
Gut up a dozen ripe tqmatoes; place in a 
saucepan and stew until tender. Rub through 
a strainer. Thicken with 3 teaspoonfuls of 
corn starch, rubbed to a paste with a teaspoon- 
ful of butter. Pour a quart of scalding milk in 
slowly, in which a pinch of soda has been dis- 
solved. Season with salt, pepper, an4 sugar. 

Tomato Cream Soup— No. 2 

Stew a quart of tom^-toes until soft and then 
rub them through a colander. Add a pinch of 
soda and a teaspobnful of onion juice and re- 
turn to the fire. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter 
and 1 of flour in another saucepan; cook until 
they bubble; then pour a pint of milk upon 
them. When the milk thickens, add the |to- 
ma,toes. Season with salt and pepper, and just 
before serving add a teaspponfnl of Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

Onion Cream Soup 

Slice 6 large onions into 1 quart of mutton 
stock, and simmer for an hour. Eub through 
a colander, return to the fire, and' thicken with 
2 teaspoonfuls of butter rubbed to a paste with 



338 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

2 of flour. Heat a pint of milk to tlie boiling 
point, and stir it into the soup. Season with 
salt, white pepper, and a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley. 

Cream of Beet Soup 

After boiling some young beets in salted 
water for an hour, turn out into cool water until 
they can be handled. Scrape all the skin off 
and chop them very fine. Put the beets in a 
saucepan with a pint of mutton stock, and sim- 
mer for fifteen minutes. Rub through a fime 
colander and place to one side of the range to 
keep hot. Pour a pint of milk upon 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of butter and the same amount of flour, 
which have been cooked to a roux. When it 
becomes thick and smooth, add slowly the beet 
and mutton puree ; season with salt and pepper, 
and when very hot serve. 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Turn off the liquor from a can of peas, and 
pour enough water over the peas to cover them 
well. Let the peas soak for half an hour, drain; 
put them into a saucepan with a pint of water, 
and boil until they become soft. Eub through 
a colander and add a teaspoonful of sugar. 
Cook in another saucepan 1 teaspoonful of but- 
ter with 1 of flour. Pour in a pint of rich mUk, 
and when it is thickened add the pea puree. 



SOUPS 339 

Cook for a minute, season to taste, then turn 
into a heated tureen. Drop a handful of dice 
of fried bread on the soup just before serving. 

Cream of Sago Soup 

Soak half a cupful of sago for three hours in 
tepid water^ Put in a double boiler with a cup- 
ful of boiling water, and simmer until soft. 
Stir 2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour 
into 3 cupfuls of hot milk. Add this to the 
sago, beat up well, season with celery salt, pep- 
per, and a little onion juice. ^ Beat up well for 
two minutes, pour slowly upon 2 well-beaten 
eggs ; set in boiling water for two minutes and 
pour out. 

Cream of Turnip Soup 

Wash and pare % dozen turnips and let lie 
in cold water for a quarter of an hour. Drain 
and cut into small pieces. Put into a stewpan 
with 4 ounces of fresh butter and 3 ounces of 
lean ham cut intQ dice, and stir about over a 
gentle fire for a few minutes. Then add 2 or 
3 onions, 2 sticks of celery; cut up and cover 
all with a pint of white stock. Let simmer 
gently until they are quite soft. Dredge two 
handfuls of flour over them, beating briskly 
meanwhile to avoid limiping and until smooth. 
Then gradually add 2 pints of white stock and 
stir over the fire until it boils. Rub through a 



340 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

fine sieve and boil up again; add salt, pepper, 
and powdered mace, and when boiling beat in 
% pint of rich cream. Then serve with crou- 
tons on the side. A bay leaf and two or three 
cloves may be added to the other ingredients. 
Sufficient for eight persons. 

Leek Soup 

Into a quart of boiling broth sift gradually 
2 tablespoonfuls of oatmreal, stirring briskly, as 
if making mush. Add as many leeks as re- 
quired for the number to be served, and boil 
until they are tender;" stirring occasionally 
from the bottom until the oatmeal ceases to 
settle. It should be of a creamy consistency. 
Take it from the fire and stir in the yolks of 
2 eggs, well beaten, and mix with a little of the 
soup and serve at once. 

Queen Vermicelli Soup 

Boil % of a pound of vermicelli until ten- 
der; drain, and plunge it in. cold water. Put 
it in a saucepan with 2 quarts of well-seasoned 
broth and simmer half an hour. Beat the yolks 
of 8 eggs, and mix well with them % or Va of 
a cup of cream, and add a little grated nutmeg. 
Have the soup just at the boiling point without 
boiling, pour in the egg, stir briskly two min- 
utes, and serve with small triangles of crisp 
toast. The stiffly beaten white of the eggs may 



SOUPS 34J 

be served in spoonfuls floating on the top of 
the soup. 

Cream of Watercress 

Put one quart of white stock, or Beef stock 
and water, on the stove with 2 bunches of 
chopped watercress and 1 tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Simmer twenty minutes. When it begins 
to boil, add 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 
tablespoonfuls of arrowroot cooked thoroughly, 
2 cups of hot milk, % teaspoonful salt, and a 
dash of cayenne. Garnish with 1 cup of whipped 
cream and % cupful of fresh cress tips. 

Jenny Lind's Soup 

As prepared specially for her by her own cooh. 

Wash % pound best pearl sago till the water 
poured off is clear, then cook, till tender and 
thick, in a quart of cold water or broth, which 
should be heated slowly. Mix gradually with 
this a pint of boiling cream and the yolks of 4 
fresh eggs, then add 2 quarts of- strong veal or 
beef stock, boiling hot. Serve at once. 

Chicken Cream Soup 

Boil an old fowl, with an onion, in ^4 quarts of 
cold water until reduced to half the original 
quantity. Take out the fowl and let it get cold. 
Cut off the whole of the breast and chop very 



342 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

fine. Mix with the pounded yolks of 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, and rub through a colander. Cool, 
skim, and strain the soup into a soup-pot. 
Season, add the chicken and egg mixture, sim- 
mer ten minutes, and pour into the tureen. 
Then add a small cup of boiling milk. 

Velvet Soup 

Cook 1 tablespoonful of pearl tapioca or 
sago, previously soaked in cold water, in a 
quart of clear stock or bouillon. When the 
tapioca is cooked clear, beat the yolks of 3 eggs 
lightly, put them in the tureen, and pour the 
soup over, stirring until it becomes uniformly 
smooth and creamy; add a dash of nutmeg and 
paprika. 

By using extract of beef, and cooking the 
sago or tapioca until clear, a very nourishing 
and quick soup may be made without stock. 

Hulled-Corn Soup 

Mash or chop the corn fine before sifting, 
then stir in gradually hot milk till it reaches the 
consistency of cream vegetable soup. Add salt 
and pepper to taste, and put on to boil with a 
generous tablespoonful of butter to each quart 
of the mixture. Serve with croutons. If the 
slightly granular character is an objection, the 
usual thickening may be added, of 1 tablespoon- 



SOUPS 343 

ful each of butter and flour cooked together and 
stirred into the boiling soup. 

If a corn puree is preferred, mash and sift 
the corn; heat, and season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. May be served as a vegetable, or as a 
garnish for sausage or pork chops. 

Cream of Sorrel Soup 

Wash thoroughly about a pint of sorrel, 
break it in pieces, or slightly bruise the leaves. 
Cook it in a tablespoonful of butter and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of water for ten or fifteen minutes, 
or untU tender enough to rub through a sieve. 
Put the sieved pulp in a saucepan with a quart 
of white stock and a pint of bechamel sauce, 
season with half a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of pepper, and let it simmer twenty 
minutes. Beat together the yolks of 2 eggs 
and a cupful of cream ; stir it into the hot soup, 
stirring briskly until it thickens. Serve with 
croutons or squares of crisp toast. 

Cream of Barley Soup 

To 3 pints of chicken broth or stock add a 
sliced onion, a small stick of cinnamon, a blade 
of mace, and a cupful of barley. Let it boil up 
and then simmer slowly, for four or five hours, 
and Straiai through a fine sieve. Put it back in 
the saucepan and add % pint of boiling cream 
or milk with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; season 



344 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

to taste with, salt and pepper. Beat the yolks of 
3 eggs, mix with them a cupful of milk; pour 
gradually into the soup, stirring briskly for two 
minutes. It must not boil after the eggs are 
added. Serve with croutons or toasted wafers. 

Cream of Mushroom Soup 

Wash and peel a quart of fresh mushrooms, 
put 'them into enough boiling' water to well 
cover them, and boil until very tender. Mash 
and rub them through a sieve. Add to the pulp 
2 quarts of chicken or veal stock; rub a table- 
spoonful of flour and butter together until 
smooth, stir it into a cupful of rich cream or 
milk, and stir until smooth ; add it to the soup, 
season with salt and pepper, let it boil up, and 
serve. 

Soup h la Grecque 

Boil slowly % teacupfuLrice and a little mint 
in 1 quart stock; then stir in 1/2 pi^it cold stock. 

Beat 3 eggs till thick, add to -them the stock 
and rice gradually. Mif well, then pour back 
and return to fire. Add i ounce butter and 
juice of 1 lemon; stir well. Just before serv- 
ing add 2 minced chicken livers. 

Cream of Potato 

3 medium-sized potatoes; V/o pints milk; 
1 egg; 1 tablespoon butter. Salt and pepper 
and finely minced pairsley. 



SOUPS 345 

Pare the potatoes and, if the tiipe is very 
limited, cut them in quarters to boil more 
quickly. As soon as done, pour off the water 
and mash, and put through a sieve or potato 
ricer. Have the milk hot, add the potato, bring 
to a boil, and add the seasoning; beat the egg 
until very foamy, and add at the last moment, 
stirring quickly to prevent any lumpiness. Gar- 
nish with the parsley, about a teaspoonful. 
Serve with hot saltines or any thin wafer. All 
crackers or toast should be crisp wben served 
with soups; the crispness means only a few 
minutes ia a hot oven, and is one of the little 
points that should not be overlooked. A little 
celery salt may be added, or a few drops of 
onion juice, or both. 

Quickly Made Tomato and Macaroni Soup 

Break a cupful of the egg macaroni into 
small pieces, cover with a quart of boiling 
salted water, and simmer slowly for an hour. 
Add 1 cup of stewed, strained, and seasoned 
tomatoes ; cook a moment, and just before serv- 
ing add one cup of cream or rich milk. 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

Chop the cabbage fine, and cook in boiling 
salted water xmtil quite tender. Just before 
serving pour off most of the" water ; add milk, 
pepper, a little more salt, if necessary, and 

23 



346 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

thicken with flour to a creamy consistency. 
This soup deserves to be much more generally 
known than it is. 

Virginia Oyster Soup 

Take 1 quart of good oysters and wash 
through two waters. Strain the liquor and add 
to it 2 blades of mace, a stalk of celery chopped 
fine, % teaspoonful of white pepper, a few 
grains of cayenne, and salt if necessary. Sim- 
mer over the fire five minutes, then add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter rubbed smooth with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour and a pint and a half of rich 
cream and new milk, half and half. Let it come 
to a good boil, stirring all the time; then put 
in the oysters, and let them boil up once and no 
more, or they will shrivel and toughen. Pour 
into a hot tureen and give thanks. 

Peanut Soup 

Since the many really good preparations of 
nuts, in the form of nut butter, have been put 
on the market, nut soups may be quickly made. 
These soups are said to have a distinctly meaty 
flavor, that of nuts being partially transformed 
in the blending with the other ingredients. For 
an emergency soup the following is one of the 
most easily made': 

1/^ cup of peanut butter; 1 pint milk; liquor 



SOUPS 347 

strained from 1 pint of oysters. Salt and 
paprika. 

Enb the peanut butter to a smooth paste with 
a little of the milk, and add, stirring thoroughly, 
the remainder of the milk (heated) ; put over the 
fire and simmer_ slowly until it thickens, then 
add the hot oyster liquor, which has been 
brought thoroughly to a boil and skimmed. Add 
the seasoning and serve with saltine crackers. 

Instead of the oyster liquor the juice may 
be strained from a can of tomatoes. Bring it 
to a boil, and add a pinch of soda before put- 
ting it with the milk and nuts. 

Nut and Tomato Soup 

1 pint of strained tomatoes; 1 pint water; 1 
pint milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls of peanut butter. 

Put the nut butter in a dish and add a little 
water; rub smooth with a spoon, and add a 
little more water until it is of the consistency 
of thick cream. Put the tomatoes, water, and 
prepared butter on the fire and let boil ten min- 
utes. When ready to take off add the milk, and 
season with salt and cayenne. 

Instead of the nut butter 1 pint roasted and 
shelled peanuts may be used, or one-half pea- 
nuts and one-half chestnuts or pecans. Remove 
the brown husks from the peanuts, pound to a 
paste in a mortar with a little hot water, add 



348 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

a little cream or milk, blending thorouglaly; 
then proceed tlie same as with the nut butter. 

Cream of Spinach with Egg Balls 

2 quarts spinach; 1 quart milk; 1 level tear 
spoonful salt; 1 tablespoonful butter; 1 table- 
spoonful flour ; % saltspoonful cayenne. 

Wash the spinach through several watej^s to 
remove all trace of sand, carefully examining 
each stalk to be sure that no insects cling to the 
leaves. Washing for the last time in strong 
salted water will remove them. Lift the leaves 
out of the water and put on to boil; no water 
is needed, as that which drains from the leaves 
is sufficient until it begins to cook, when its own 
juice will be all 1.hat is necessary to prevent its 
burning. Boil until soft enough to put through 
a coarse strainer or colander; twenty minutes 
should be sufficient. Eub through the strainer, 
add the milk, heated to boiling point; then 
thicken with the flour which has been rubbed 
into the butter; season, and serve with egg 
balls. 

Egg Balls 

2 hard-boiled eggs; 1 raw egg; 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour or fine cracker crumbs ; 2 teaspoonfuls 
melted butter; 14 teaspoonful salt; a dash of 
cayenne ; a little grated nutmeg ; a few drops of 
lemon juice. 



SOUPS 349 

Rub the boiled egg yolks very smooth, mince 
one of the whites very fine. Mix together, add 
the seasoning and flour or crumbs. Stir all 
together with enough of. the slightly beaten raw 
egg to bind and form into balls the size of a 
nutmeg, rolling into the egg and crumbs after 
shaping. Drop the balls into the boiling soup 
and cook until firm; about five minutes. Or 
they may be fried to a golden brown in deep 
boiling fat. Serve in the tureen with the soup. 

Cream of Chestnuts 

1% pints of French or Italian chestnuts; 1 
pint rich cream; 1 pint chicken, or any good 
white stock ; 1 tablespoonf ul butter ; 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt; % saltspoonful white pepper. 

Pour boiling water over the chestnuts, and let 
them stand a few minutes to blanch; remove the 
brown skins. Put the nuts in a covered 
saucepan and put on to boil in water enough 
to cover them well. Cook until they begin to 
get soft, about twenty minutes, then add the 
stock and boil fifteen minutes longer. When 
the nuts have cooked very soft, strain them 
and return to the saucepan, add the cream, 
bring to a boil, and simmer gently for five or 
ten minutes ; add the salt, pepper, and butter, 
and serve very hot in cups with small crackers 
or thin wafers. 



350 SOUPS, CHOWDER, AND FISH 



Cream of Asparagus 

2 bunches of asparagus ; 1 small onion ; 1 pint 
milk; % pint rich cream; 1 tablespoon butter; 
1 tablespoon flour ; salt and pepper. 

Cut off the asparagus tips and boil separately 
to use as salad. Cut the stalks in short pieces to 
facilitate straining, add the onion and boil in 
one pint of salted water until tender ; mash 
and strain, with the water in which they were 
cooked, through a colander. Lift the tips care- 
fully from the water, keeping them unbroken. 
Add this water to the asparagus pulp, put it 
with the hot milk. Thicken with the butter 
and flour rubbed smoothly together, season, and 
just before serving add the cream, scalded. 

Cream of Lettuce 

Cleanse carefully about 3 heads of lettuce, re- 
moving all the dead leaves. Place in the 
inner pan 'of a double boiler, and bring to boil- 
ing as quickly as possible, so as to retain the 
color. When tender press through a fine sieve, 
place back into the saucepan over the fire ; add 
1% pints of white stock and bring to a boil. 
Stir smooth a tablespoon of flour with a little 
milk or water, and add to* the soup, stirring 
briskly, until of a creamy consistency. Then 
add a tablespoonful of butter ; season with salt 
and pepper, a little sugar, and a dash of mace. 
Serve very hot. 



SOUPS 35J 

Cream of Celery 

2 heads of celery; 1 small onion; 1 quart of 
milk; 2 tablespoons butter; 1 tablespoon flour 
or arrowroot; 1 teaspoon salt; i/2 saltspoon 
white pepper. 

Remove the tender heart of the celery for 
serving alone, using the outside stalks for the 
soup. Cut these in pieces and put on to boil 
with the best of the leaves and the onion cut 
in quarters, in water enough to well cover. 
Boil slowly until soft; strain through a coarse 
sieve, add the milk, butter, and thickening; boil 
very slowly ten minutes; add salt and pepper, 
and serve. 

Cream of Cauliflower 

This is made the same as cream of celery, 
dividing the flowers into small sections, cook- 
ing and straining, and proceeding the same as 
in the other cream soups. 

Cream of Green Peas 

1 quart green peas ; 1 small onion ; 1 teaspoon 
sugar ; 1 pint rich milk ; 1 tablespoon rice flour ; 
2 tablespoons butter. Salt and pepper. 

Cut the onion in half and cook with the peas 
in enough boUing water to cover. When the 
peas are cooked soft, take out the onion and 
strain through a coarse sieve. Return the pulp 
to the saucepan, add the sugar and milk; when 



352 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

hot add the rice flour stirred up with a little 
cold milk; then add the butter, cook until it 
thickens ; add the pepper and more salt if neces- 
sary. A qup of whipped cream to the well- 
beaten white of an egg, added just before serv- 
ing, makes it more delicate. It must not cook 
or stand after the addition of the cream and 
the egg. 



BISQUES 

This term is given to a class of soups which 
in making become thicker than broths, by- 
reason of the crumbs and minced meat which 
are added. They are very popular soups for the 
family dinner, although for formal dinners 
those varieties which are made from shellfish 
are also in favor. 



Clam Bisque 

1 quart clams, with their juice; 1 pint water; 
1 quart milk; % small onion; 1 tablespoon but- 
ter ; 1 tablespoon flour ; i/^ saltspoon white pep- 
per; salt as needed. 

Pick over the clams and chop very fine. Put 
them in the cold water, heat rather quickly; add 
the onion, also chopped fine, and boil gently 
until all the goodness is extracted from the 



SOUPS 353 

clams. Let the clam juice settle, pour it off 
from the sediment, bring it to a boil, and skim. 
Strain the liquor from the cooked clams 
through a fine strainer or cheesecloth, and add 
to the skimmed liquor. Heat the milk, thicken 
it with the flour and butter rubbed smoothlj^ 
together ; add it to the hot clam juice ; add the 
seasoning, boil until it thickens, and serve very 
hot. 

Bisque of Halibut 

Boil a pound of fresh halibut in 2 waters. 
Free from all pieces of skin and bones. Then 
mince it fine. Stir the fish into a quart of white 
stock and season with salt, pepper, and a spoon- 
ful of minced parsley. Put 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and 1 of flour into a saucepan. Cook 
until they become thoroughly blended, then add 
a cupful of , milk, and stir until the milk 
thickens. Turn the thickened milk into the pot 
with the fish and stock. Let it all, boil up once, 
and then pour out into the tureen. It is well 
to add half a cupful of powdered cracker 
crumbs just before the fish stock is mixed with 
the milk. Cod can be substituted for hajibut if 
desired. 

Chicken Bisque 

Cover the joints of a fowl with cold water, 
using a quart for each pound. Add a large 



354 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

minced onion and 3 stalks of finely minced 
celery. Place a cover on the saucepan, and 
cook slowly until the flesh will slip from the 
bones. Put all aside to cool. When cold, skim, 
remove the bones and meat, and chop fine. 

While the soup is heating, turn a cupful of 
milk into another saucepan, to which a pinch 
of soda has been added. Thicken the milk with 
a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into a tea- 
spoonful of flour, and add a tablespoonful of 
minced parsley. 

After the soup has boiled for a few minutes, 
stir into it the chopped chicken and a cupful 
of soaked cracker crumbs. Boil one minute, 
then add the thickened milk and pour out into 
the tureen-. 

Salmon Bisque 

Open and turn out the contents of a can of 
salmon several hours before you are ready to 
make the soup. Pick the salmon to pieces with 
a silver fork and remove all the skin and bones. 
Put into an agate vessel with enough boiling 
water to cover, and let it simmer gently for 
about thirty minutes. Drain the water off and 
break the salmon to a soft mass. Heat a pint 
of milk in a double boiler with half a cupful of 
cracker crumbs and a pinch of soda. Stir in 
a pint of veal stock that has been well seasoned, 



SOXn« 355 

and thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
rubbed into 2 of butter. 

"When it becomes thick and smooth, stir in the 
minced fish ; season well with paprika and salt, 
and serve. 

This is fine when made of fresh boiled 

salmon. 

Oyster Bisque 

Add enough cold water to the liquor drained 
from a quart of oysters to make a quart. Chop 
the oysters fine, and stir into this. Place in a 
porcelain-lined saucepan and cook gently for 
twenty minutes. Have ready a quart of heated 
milk, in which a pinch of soda has been dis- 
solved, and % a cupful of cracker crumbs, 
soaked. Cook 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 
2 of flour until they become perfectly blended; 
then pour upon them the quart of thickened 
boiling milk. Stir until it becomes thick and 
creamy. Now turn in the oyster soup, and 
season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Pour a cupful of the soup upon the well- 
beaten yolk^ of 2 eggs, stirring constantly. 
When thoroughly mixed, place back in the 
saucepan, stir for a moment, and pour at once 
into a heated tureen. 

Bisque of Lobster 

Eemove meat from shell, cut into dice ; tough, 
hard pieces may be put into 1 pint cold water, 



356 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND nSH 

with, the shell, and boiled twenty minuties, add- 
ing water as it boils away. 

Dry the coral in the oven on a piece of paper. 

Boil 1 quart milk ; thicken with 1 tablespoon- 

ful butter and 2 of flour or corn starch; cookten 
minutes, and add the water from the shells and 
trimmings after straining. 

Season with 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 saltspoonful 
white pepper, i/4 saltspoonful cayenne. The 
dried coral should be rubbed through a strainer, 
and use enough to color the soup a bright pink. 
Put the lobster dice and green fat into tureen 
and strain over them the ,boiling soup. Serve 
immediately, i/^ cup of fine cracker crumbs 
may be used as additional thickening. 

A satisfactory variation will be found in 
using 1 pint veal or chicken stock and 1 pint 
milk, and the addition of force-meat balls made 
by pounding half the lobster meat to fine paste, 
adding yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 teaspoon- 
ful butter, a little salt and pepper. Beat a raw 
egg, and use enough to moisten the paste so it 
can easily be formed into balls of nutmeg size ; 
then simmer them in the soup for five minutes, 
only long enough to cook the egg. 

Bisque of Crabs 

Boil 6 hard-shell crabs, in enough water to 
cover them well, for ten minutes, with 1 iable- 



SOUPS 357 

spoonful salt. Take out with skimmer; when 
cold pick out the meat, keeping the meat from 
the claws separate. Chop the remaining meat 
fine, put in a saucepan with 1 cupful rice, 2 
quarts boiling water, % bay leaf, 2 cloves, 10 
wiole peppers, and a sliced onion. 

Simmer one hour. Strain, and return to saucepan ; add 
1 cupful of milk or cream, and the meat from the claws, 
picked fine. Season with salt and pepper and thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls each, of butter and flour rubbed 
smoothly together ; let all come to a boil, and serve. 

Corn Bisque 

Drain the liquor from a can of cornl Chop 
the corn very fine, turn into a saucepan con- 
taining a quart of salted water, and simmer 
gently for an hour. Then rub through a col- 
ander; place again over the fire, add a tea- 
spoonful of sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter rubbed iuto 2 of floUr. Stir until it becomes 
smooth, and then pour slowly upon a pint of 
heated milk. 

Season to taste with salt, and then pour 
sloVly upon 2 well-beaten eggs. Serve at once. 

Cheese Bisque 

Bring a pint of milk containing a pinch of 
soda to the, scalding point. Add to this a cup 
ful of chicken or lamb stock, in whifih an onion 
has been boiled, and a cupful of water in which 
rice has been cooked. Cook 5 minutes and xa.'-s 



358 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

through a strainer. Put 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter and 2 of flour into a good-sized sauce- 
pan and cook until thoroughly blended; then 
pour the white soup into the vessel and stir 
until it thickens to the consistency of cream. 
Beat in I/2 cupful of grated cheese. Have 2 
well-beaten eggs in a bowl, and on these slowly 
pour a cupful of the hot soup, beating con- 
stantly to prevent the mixture from curdling. 
Now return the soup, with the eggs, to that 
which is on the fire. Beat for a moment, season 
well with salt and pepper, and serve. This is 
very good when properly made. 

Tomato Bisque 

Chop 2 cupfuls of fresh tomatoes ; 1 pint of 
skimmed gravy or of strong stock; 1 cupful of 
fine bread crumbs soaked half an hour in hot 
milk with a pinch of soda ; 1 teaspoonful of 
butter cooked with 1 of flour ; some chopped 
parsley ; cook together the tomatoes and stock 
for five minutes, run through a vegetable sieve ; 
add the seasoning, and return to fire. Simmer 
twenty minutes, then add the soaked crumbs 
and parsley. Cook five minutes, and serve at 
once. Canned tomatoes can be used if fresh 
ones are not at hand. 

Mock Bisque 

Bring to a boil 1 pint of tomatoes, 1 bay leaf, 
and a sprig of parsley. Boil slowly for ten or 



SOUPS 359 

fifteen minutes. Add 1 teaspoonful of sugar 
and Va teaspoonful of soda, then press through 
a fine sieve and season with salt and pepper. 
Have ready a pint of milk, heat it in a double 
boiler and thicken with 1 tablespoonful of but- 
ter rubbed into the same amount of flour. Add 
the heated milk to the strained tomato, and 
serve immediately with croutons! If not ready 
to serve the soup,, do not add the soda or mix 
the tomatoes, but keep hot until needed and 
serve as soon as blended. 

SOUPS WITH MEAT, AND PUR£ES 

Green Pea Puree 

Boil until tender a quart of shelled peas in a 
pint of salted hot water with a young onion, a 
few sprigs of parsley, and 6 mint leaves. Rub 
through a colander and return to the fire. Add 
two cupf uls of good stock, season with salt and 
pepper and a little sugar. Let it boil two min- 
utes, then thicken with a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour. Cook one minute longer, and 
pour upon croutons of fried bread dice in the 
tureen. 

Red Bean Pur^e 

Soak a pint of red kidney beans in cold water 
for several hours. Drain, and put them in a 
saucepan with enough white broth or stock to 



360 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

well cover them. Cqok slowly until very soft ; 
masli and rub th^m through a sieve. Add 2 or 
3 slices of salt pork (diced), 2 onions, a carrot, 
salt and pepper, and a bouquet of herbs. Pour 
over them a quart of good stock, or a pint of 
stock and a pint of water, and simmer together 
for an hour. Strain ; add half a glass of claret. 
Heat, and serve \^rith croutons, 

Lima Bean Pur^e 

Cook the beans for ten minutes in boiling 
water; drain, rinse; put again into plenty of 
boiling water, cook till perfectly tender. Press 
the pulp through strainer; add milk or cream 
to make it of the usual consistency ; and to each 
quart add a tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour rubbed together, and stirred into the boil- 
ing liquid. Season with pepper and salt ; serve 
with wafers. 

Carrot Purde 

Use only the outer, dark-colored portion of 
the carrots. Scrape, wash, and cut in dice 
enough to make a cupful. Fry them in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter until slightly browned. 
Pour over them enough broth to well cover, and 
simmer until soft. Let it cook until reduced to 
a thick pulp. Stir in 5 or 6 tablespoonfuls of 
bechamel sauce, and strain through a fine 
strainer. Add 6 cups of white broth and 



SOUPS > 361 

strain again, and put it on the fire and stir until 
it bubbles; then set it aside to cool and skim 
off all fat from the top. Beat the yolks of 4 
eggs, mix them with half a cup of cream, and 
strain through a sieve into the puree ; then put 
it over the fire and stir until it thickens. It 
must not boil. Add a few noodles and a lump 
of butter the size of an egg; pour into a hot 
tureen, and serve. 

Tomato Purfee with Macaroni 

1 can tomatoes ; 1 pint beef stock ; 1 cup boiled 
macaroni; 1 stalk chopped celery; 1 sprig pars- 
ley; Iteaspoonful sugar; % teaspoonful salt; 
% saltspoon pepper ; 1 blade mace ; 1 bay leaf ; 
1 tablespoonful each chopped onion, butter, and 
flour cooked together. 

Cook the tomatoes, parsley, celery, and sea- 
soning slowly together for an hour. Strain 
through a coarse sieve or colander, then add the 
cooked' flour and butter, and the stock. Stir all 
together until thoroughly blended. Cut the 
macaroni in inch pieces and add;. let it simmer 
a few minutes and serve. The macaroni may 
be omitted and croutons served with the puree. 

Oatmeal Pur^e 

1% eups cooked oatmeal; 2 small onions, 
chopped; 1 cup celery, chopped; 1 pint milk; 



362 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

1 tablespoon butter; 1 teaspoon salt; % salt- 
spoon white pepper; 1 teaspoon chopped pars- 
ley. 

Boil the onion and celery pi a pint of water 
until nearly done; add the oatmeal mush and 
continue to cook until all is soft, adding more 
boiling water if it becomes too thick. Strain 
through a rather coarse strainer, pressing the 
pulp through with a spoon. Add the milk, 
bring to a boil, then add the butter and other 
seasoning, sprinkling in the chopped parsley 
just before serving. 

This makes a good nursery soup, either with 
or without the addition of a teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of beef. If liked, a blade of mace may 
be cooked in before straining. 

Tomato and Green Pea Purfee 

y2 can tomatoes (or same amount of fresh to- 
matoes cut in pieces) ; 1 pint shelled green peas ; 
1 small onion; 1 pint stock; 1 pint water; 1 
teaspoon sugar ; 1 tablespoon flour ; 1 teaspoon 
salt; a dash each of paprika and white pepper. 

Canned peas may be used, in which case pour 
off the water in which they are canned., Slice 
the onion and put in a saucepan with the to- 
matoes and peas. Add the sugar and salt. 

Pour over it the boiling water and cook 
slowly until soft. Eub through a coarse 



SOUPS ; irv 363 

T' - m.... .:.: _ I. -— . ;; ■■■■ — . 

strainer ; put the pulp back in the saucepan, add 
th^ stock. Eub the flour smooth with a kittle 
cold stock; then add some of the hot liquor, 
stirring it until perfectly smooth; add it to the 
soup, boil until the flour is cooked, add pepper, 
and serve with croutons or crisp saltines. , 

No. 2-Without Stock 

Cook the tomatoe?, peas, and onion as in the 
preceding; omit the stock and add one pint milk 
in its' place, and 1 tablespoon butter rubbed to 
a paste with the flour. , % pint rich cream, 
whipped light Hiud added when taken from the 
fire, is an impro^i^ementi 

Tomato Pur6e 

%. teaspoonful of extract of beef; 1 onion; 
1 bay leaf ; 1 sprig of parsley ; 4 cupfuls of to- 
matoes ; 2 cupfuls of hot water ; 2 teaspoonfuls 
of sugar ; 2 teaspoonfuls butter ; % teaspoonful 
cloves; % teaspoon of allspice; 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour ; 2 or 3 drops of onion extract ; salt 
and pepper to taste. 

Brown the onion (sliced) in the butter, add 
the flour, and brown. Add the tomatoes, pars- 
ley, spices, bay leaf, and sugar ; simmer fifteen 
minutes. Add the extract dissolved in hot 
water, strain the soup through a puree sieve, 
and return to the kettle. ^ Heat and serve. 



364 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Quenelle Soup 

Into a cupful of boiling water put a piece of 

butter the size of a walnut, add a pinch of salt, 

and stir in sufficient flour to make a rather 

~ thick, smooth paste. Turn it out and set away 

to cool. 

Cut into small pieces a % pound of nice lean 
veal, and pound them thoroughly in a mortar, 
addiag, a little at a time, 2 ounces of the cold 
paste and 3 ounces of butter; beat these well 
together and add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and 
the white of 1, and season well with salt and 
pepper and grated nutmeg, Eub the whole 
through a fine sieve; add a little thick cream, 
and with 2 teaspoons form it into quenelles, or 
small balls. Place these in the bottom of a 
saucepan, pour over them carefully enough 
boUiQg stock to cover them, and cook gently a 
few minutes. Pour into a hot tureen the re- 
quired amount of hot soup or broth, add the 
quenelles and the stock in which they were 
boiled, and serve. 

Parisian-Spanish Soup 

Chop 4 good-sized onions, and fry them in a 
tablespoonful of butter and a teaspoonful of 
sugar until a light golden brown. Put them in 
a saucepan with 2 quarts of hot stock, add a 
little minced parsley, a bay leaf, 2 small sweet 



SOUPS 365 

red peppers, or 3 or 4 whole peppercorns. Boil 
all together fifteen minutes; add more salt if 
necessary. 

Put thin, crisp slices of toast in the tureen, 
sprinkle them with pepper, pour the soup over, 
and serve at once. 

Parisian Soup 

Cut 4 or 5 leeks into strips and fry in a little 
butter. Add to them a quart of good mutton 
stock; add salt and pepper to taste. Add 6 
boiled potatoes cut into slices, and boil all to- 
gether tmtil the leeks are thoroughly cooked. 
Serve in a tureen with croutons strewn over the 

top. 

Velvet Soup Maigre 

This is a very simple and economical soup, as 

there is no meat in it. Cook some tapioca in 

water with a little salt and pepper. Put a lump 

of butter in a tureen and the yolks of 2 or .3 

eggs. Pour the boiling tapioca over the eggs 

and butter, stir up well, and serve. 

Scotch. Hotchpotch 

Strain and remove all the fat from 2 qua;rts 
of good mutton or lamb broth, add 2 grated 
carrots and 3 sliced ones, enough young tur- 
nips, onion, parsley, and lettuce to make a quart 
of shred vegetables. Then take a pint of young 
green peas and a pint of cauliflower sprigs, 



366 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

and add to the stock with the exception of half 
of the peas. Stew all slowly for half an hour. 
Trim 2 pounds of lamb or mutton cutlets, and 
add with the remainder of the peas to the 
stock. Season with pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley ; simmer gently. Serve immediately. 

A Simple Onion Soup 

Miace half a dozen medium-sized onions very 
finely. Put in a, stewpan, ove^r a sJjQW fire witji 
3 ounces of melted butter, dredge a little flour 
over them, and shake about until they are soft 
and lightly browned. 
; Add a quart of boiling water, and seapon, with 
salt and pepper and a grated nutmeg. Have 2 
well-beaten eggs in the tureen; after the soup 
has boiled up well, stir in among the eggs; and 
serve at once. It should take about half an 
hour for this soup to cook. ■ 

Sago Soup (Hawaiian Rectpe) 

Wash 14 cup pearl sago through several cold 
waters; cook slowly in 1 quart water till the 
sago is transparent ; add a pinch of salt, a 
2-inch piece stick ciimamon, % cup seeded and 
chopped raisins ; and just before serving % pint 
of fruit juice and 2 tablespopnfuls sugar. 

Gock-a-Leekie 

Boil a young fowl imtil tender in 2 quarts 
of white stock. Take out thevfowl and set, to 



SOUPS 367 

one side. Wash and cut off tlie roots and jiart 
of the heads of 2 nice bunches of leeks, then 
cut into 1-inch lengths. Put them into the 
broth, add % pound of boiled rice, add a little 
salt and pepper. Boil for half an hour. After 
cutting the fowl into neat joints, put it in the 
soup, let it boil up well, then serve at once. The 
soup can be served without adding the fowl. 

Lettuce Soup 

Wash thoroughly and drain the water from a 
dozen lettuce hearts. Cut them down the cen- 
tres, leaving the stems whole. Dash them with 
salt and pepper. Put them in a saucepan with 
a pint of chicken consomme and the same of 
veal broth ; add an onion, a carrot, a few sprigs 
of parsley, a clove, a blade of mace, a bay leaf, 
and a little thyme. Put a sheet of buttered 
paper over the top of the saucepan and put the 
lid on tightly ; boil gently two hours. Take out 
the lettuce, drain on a towel, cut them in two, 
and put them in the soup tureen, where they 
will keep hot. Strain the stock in which they 
were boiled, add 3 pints more of boiling broth 
and pour it over the lettuce, and serve with 
nicely browned pieces of toast on the top. 

Soup of Herbs with Parmesan 

Wash in several waters a handful each of 
chervil, chives, and sorrel, and a head of tender 



368 SOJPS, CtiOWDERS, AND HSH 

celery; add a very little tarragon and a few 
sprigs of parsley. Drain all these free from 
water and cut them in small pieces. Put them 
in a saucepan and pour over 3 pints of clear 
stock or broth, and boil until all are ten- 
der. 

Slice some French rolls and cut them in small 
rounds the size of a half-dollar, dip them in 
hot butter, and roll in finely grated Parmesan, 
having them well covered. Put them in a shal- 
low baking tin or on a sheet of paper on an in- 
verted pan, and brown lightly in the oven. 
Pour the soup in the tureen and put the toast 
on the top. 

Flemish Soup 

Cut into small pieces carrots, onions, and 
turnips in equal quantities sufficient to make 2 
cupfuls ; add 2 leeks cut in small pieces, a small 
head of lettuce, breaking the leayes in two or 
more pieces, a little chervil, and a head of 
endive. Put these in a saucepan with a lump 
of butter the size of a walnut, pour over them a 
pint of beef or mutton broth, and boil until the 
vegetables are all tender, stirring frequently. 
Add 2 quarts of boiling broth, a teaspoonful 
of sugar, salt and pepper as required, and sim- 
mer one hour; just before serving beat the 
yolks of 3 eggs light with a half-pint of rich 
cream, and stir briskly into the soup. .■^ 



SOUPS 369 

Family Soup 

Put any meat bones from dressed meats, to- 
gether with, trimmings of poultry and scraps of 
meat, into a stewpan. Add ^to the meat 2 
onions which have been stuck with 5 cloves; 2 
carrots, 1 turnip, a little celery seed, ti^d in a 
piece of muslin, bunch savory herbs, 1 sprig 
parsley, a little mace, and pepper and salt to 
taste. Pour 3 or 4 quarts of cold water over 
this, and let simmer gently for several hours. 
Strain through a fine sieve. This makes a good 
foundation for any soup. 

French Soup 

Put 4 pounds of meat into a stock pot with 3 
quarts of water; set over slow fire and let it 
boil gently, carefully taking off scum that will 
rise to the top. Pour in teacupful of cold water 
to help scum to rise. When no more scum 
rises, add 3 small sliced carrots, 3 medium-sized 
onions, 2 cut-up turnips, 1 head of celery, 1 
bunch thyme, 1 bay leaf, a little parsley tied 
together, and 2 teaspoonfuls salt. Let all boil 
gently for two hours. If necessary, add more 
water. 

Dried-Bean Soup 

Soak 1 quart of kidney, field, rice, or mock- 
turtle beans overnight. In the morning put 
them in a closely covered soup-pot with 2 



370 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

pounds of salt pork, wMoh has been cut up into 
small pieces, and 1 gallon of cold water. Boil 
three hours, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
Strain, and serve with slices of lemon. Some 
small force-meat balls and slices of hard-boiled 
eggs can be dropped in the tureen at the last 
moment. 

Hard-Pea Soup 
Soak 2 pounds of split peas overnight in 
water, to which a little soda has been added. 
All the peas that float should be thrown away. 
Strain out the peas and place them in 2 
quarts of stock. Add a head of celery, a cut-up 
carrot, a large onion or 2 small ones, and 
season with a pinch of curry powder or a little 
cayenne pepper. Boil with a lid on the pot 
until all is soft. Skim off the scum occasion- 
ally, and then strain carefully into a heated 
tureen, beating the pulp through the strainer 
with a spoon. Serve as hot as possible, placing 
a cupful of crumbled bread crumbs into the 
tureen before the soup is dished. 

Cocoanut Soup 

2 pounds veal and a knuckle bone; 1 cocoa- 
nut ; 2 quarts water ; 1 cup cream ; 1 egg ; 1 table- 
spoon arrowroot or nice flour; 1 tablespoon 
butter ; salt and pepper ; a blade of mace. 

Einse the veal in cold water, wipe dry, and 



SOUPS 37J 

cut in small pieces. Have the bone well 
cracked. Put it into the kettle with the cold 
water and cook slowly until the meat is very 
tendier and the water has evaporated nearly 
one-half. Add the grated cocoanut and simmer 
for another half -hour. Strain, and add the 
milk of the cocoanut and the cream. Let it 
come to a boil, add the arrowroot or flour, rub- 
bed to a cream with the butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste; let it boil until it thickens. Ee- 
move from the fire and add the lightly beaten 
egg, stirring briskly.. 

Serve at once with small tri9,ngles, of crisp 
toasted bread. This ^oup should not be allow;ed, 
to stand long after the egg is added. 

Mock-Turtle Soup 

1 calf's head; 3 potmds lean veal; 3 pounds 
beef -shank; 5 quarts water; 1 slice good ham; 

1 carrot; 1 turnip; 1 celery root; 2 onions; 1 
bunch parsley ; a bunch of sayory herbs, or 2 
teaspoons mixed dry herbs ; 1 blade mace ; 1 
small stick cinnamon ; 6 cloves ; 6 peppercorns ; 

2 teaspoons salt; 1 lemon; a wineglass sherry ^ 
wine. 

. Select a large, fine head with -wrell-fiUed 
clieeks and good tongue. Wash, cl;ea,n, and 
scrape the head, and let it soak for, half an hour 
in cold water. Take out th^ braiii and tongue 



372 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND nSH 

and set aside in cold water, to be used in other 
dishes. 

' Cut the head in small pieces and put it in 
the water with the skin side up to prevent its 
sticking to the kettle. Heat slowly and skim 
thoroughly. Let it simmer for two hours, 
when the meat should slip easily from the bone. 
Lift out of the kettle and remove the meat care- 
fully from the face and any other nice parts. 

Return the bones to the kettle; add the veal, 
beef, and brain, cut in small pieces ; put in the 
sliced onion and the other vegetables, herbs, 
and spices, and simmer for three hours. The 
liquor should then be reduced to about 3 quarts. 

While the soup is boiling, cut the meat 
taken from the face into dice to be returned 
to the soup. 'Strain the soup, cool, and re- 
move the fat. Put the liquor into a clean 
saucepan and add 1 scant cup of the diced meat 
to each quart of soup; bring to a boil ;^ stir 
in a brown thickening made by rubbing to- 
gether 2 tablespoons browned flour and the same 
of butter. Boil until the flour is sufiicientlj 
cooked, stirring frequently. 

With the remaining bits of meat make force- 
meat balls, using a portion of the brains. Add 
the sherry wine, a spoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, or tomato. 

Put the force-meat balls into the tureen ; have 



SOUPS 373 

the soup very hot, and pour over. Serve with 
very thin slices of lemon. 

Turkey Soup 

Take the carcass and all that is left of a roast 
turkey. Cut all the good bits of meat from the 
bones and put it aside by itself; take out the 
stuffing and set it aside. Crack the bones and 
put them with any scraps of meat in a kettle 
with cold water enough to well cover them.' 
Add 1 chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful salt, and a 
little pepper. After it has simmered two 
hours, or until the bones are clean, strain 
through a colander, cool, and remove the fat. 

Put on the fire and put in the sliced meat, 
both light and dark, in the proportion of 1 cup- 
ful to a quart of stock. Add a few spoonfuls 
of the stuffing. Let all simmer together for 
half an hour and serve. If there is no stuffing 
left, add more seasoning, and thicken with 
browned flour and butter. 

Chicken or any other fowl or game can be 
used in the same way. 

White Bean Soup 

Soak 3 cupfuls of dried white beans for eight 
hours. Drain, and then cover them with 2 
quarts of boiling water. Boil the beans until 
they are tender and broken to pieces. Rub 
them through a sieve and return to the fire with 



374 SOUPS, CHO^TDERS, AND FISH 

the water they were boiled in. Add a quart ©f 
stock, in which a piece of corned beef or a ham 
has been boiled. If too salt, add other soup 
stock. Boil for an hour, season to ta^te; stir 
in a tablespoonful of butter which has been 
rolled in 1 tablespoonful of flour and put into 
, the tureen. Put a handful of croutons on the 
surface of the soup. 

Spinach Soup 

Pick over, wash, and stem half a peek of 
spinach, put in the inner Vessel of a double 
boiler, with boiling water in the outer, and coOk 
tender. Eub the spinach through the vegetable 
press back into the saucepan. Add a quart of 
good stock-, season with salt, pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and a pinch of mace. Quickly 
bring it to a boil, stir in a tablespoonful of but- 
ter rolled in a tablespoonful of flour, and cook 
for one minute. 

Both celery and cauliflower are good used in 
Mie same way. 

Farmer's Chowder - 

Parboil and slice 6 good potatoes. Chop 
and fry half a pound of salt pork, and when it 
begins to crisp add a minced onion and cook to 
a Jight brown. Pack the "potatoes, porkj and 
onion in a soup-kettle, sprinkling each layer 
with minced parsley and pepper. Add the hot 



SOUPS , 375 

pork fat ; cover with a pint of boiling water, and 
cook gently for half an hour. Turn into a col- 
ander and drain the liquor back into the pot. 

Have a pint of hot milk ready, into which a 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour has been 
stirred. Place this in the kettle containing the 
liquor, cook one minute, add the potatoes to the 
kettle, and serve. 

Succotash Soup 

String and cut the string beans into inch 
lengths, then shred each inch into thin strips. 
Grate the kernels from six ears of corn, and 
boil the corn-cobs twenty minutes in a quart of 
cleared beef stock. Take the cobs from the stock 
and add the grated corn and shredded beans. 
Boil for twenty-five minutes. Make. a pint of 
tomato sauce, thickened and seasoned as usual, 
and pour the stock containing the corn and 
beans upon this. Season to taste, and serve 
very hot, without straining. This soup can be 
made in winter from canned corn and string 
beans. 

Tomato and Bean Soup 

Pour 3 pints of cold water over beef-bones 
and place on the fire. Add half a sliced carrot, 
2 stalks of coarse celery, and a grated onion. 
Simmer slowly for four hours in a covered pot, 
until the liquid is reduced to one-half, 



376 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Turn all into a bowl and let it stand until it 
becomes cold. Skim tbe fat off, take out tlie 
bones, and rub the vegetables through a col- 
ander back iato the liquor. 

Season to taste with salt and pepper. When 
it begins to boil, add a cupful of stewed tomato 
and one of baked beans. After cooking half 
an hour rub all hard through the colander 
into another saucepan. Thicken with a tea- 
spoonful of butter rubbed with 1 of flour. 
A little chopped parsley is an improvement. 
Boil hard for a moment and turn upon small 
squares of fried or toasted bread laid in the 
bottom of the tureen. This is a fine way to use 
up left-overs of stewed tomatoes and baked 
beans. 

Red Tomato Soup 

Skim the fat from a quart of beef stock 
and turn into it a can of tomatoes, or a quart 
of fresh tomatoes which have been peeled and 
sliced. Simmer for an hour. Then rub the 
soup through a sieve and return to the fire with 
a large teaspoonful of sugar, a tablespooiiful of 
butter rolled in flour, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, and 
pepper and salt to taste. Add half a cupful of 
boiled rice. Simmer five minutes, and serve 
with squares of toasted bread. 



SOUPS 377 

Carrot Soup 

Wash, and slice in tMn slices one dozen half- 
grown carrots. Place in a saucepan with 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter and a little sugar and 
salt. Cook slowly until the carrots begin to 
color. Add a pint of rich broth and boil gently 
until tender ; then press the carrots through your 
vegetable press ; return to the saucepan, and 
when hot, serve. 

Sorrel Soup • 

Chop a quart of sorrel very fine, and boil until 
tender in a quart of mutton stock. Rub through 
a colander and return to the fire. Thicken a 
pint of hot milk with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed into one of butter. Cook about a min- 
ute, then slowly stir in the sorrel soup. Season 
to taste and serve. 

Okra Soup 

Stir 2 slices of corned ham (minced), a 
chopped onion, and two dozen okra into a 
quart of chicken stock. Add a pint of strained 
tomatoes and boil all until the okra is tender. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste, and serve. 

Savory Rice Soup 

Wash half a cupful of rice. Place in boiling 
water, and boO for twelve minutes. Drain the 
water off, pour 1 quart of stock over it, and 
cook until the rice becomes tender; then rub 

25 



378 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

through a strainer and return to the fire. Beat 
the yolks of 2 eggs; add half a cup of cream 
to them, then add this to the soup, and stir for 
a moment. Do not allow it to boil. If neoes- 
saryj add more seasoning, and serve. 

Browned Potato Soup 

Peel and quarter 12 potatoes. Fry the po- 
tatoes together with a sliced onion in a soup- 
pot in which 3. tablespoonfuls of beef dripping 
have been placed. When the potatoes hkve 
browned add 2 quarts of water, and simmer 
until the potatoes have become soft. Rub 
through a colander, return to the pot, and 
thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of browned flour 
rubbed to a paste with a great spoonful of but- 
ter. Stir until smooth. Season with salt and 
pepper and add a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. This soup is very good. 

Savory Potato Soup 

Put over the fire a good marrowbone in '3 
pints of cold water. Add a small sliced carrot, 
a stalk or two of celery, and a grated onion. 
BoU slowly down to one-half the original quan- 
tity. 

Set aside until cold; remove the fat and take 
out the bones, rub the vegetables through a col- 
ander back into the soup. Bring quickly to a 



SOUPS (379 

boil. and pour upon a cupful of masHed po- 
tato. Turn into a double boiler, and when it 
becomes hot add a .great spoonful of cboppetl 
parsley. ,; ; , , 

Have a pupfiil qf hot water, in which a pinch 
of soda has been dropped, in another sauftepan. 
Stir into this a teaspoonful of butter, whieii 
has been rubbed in 1 of corn starch. 

Cjpok three minutes, add to the potato sOup ; 
Stir briskly for half a minute andput into the 
tureen. 

Split-Pea Soup-No. 1 

This soup may be made of dried, split, green, 
or yellow peas. Let a large cupful of the |peas 
soak overnight. In the morning dl'ain; cover 
with 2 quarts of water, and bring to a boil. 
Simmer gently until the peas become soft, the&i 
rub them through a colander and return to the 
fire. Thicken with 'a tablespoonful Of flonr 
rubbed into 1 of butter, and season With salt, 
pepper, celery, and onion juice: 

Stir the soup until it becomes vety smooth, 
turn into a heated tureen, throw in a handful 
of dice of fried bread, and serve. 

Bean and Tomato Soup . , ., 
Soak a quart of beans eight hours. Elraih, 
and soak in warm water for another hour. 
Drain, and put into the soup-pOt with a gallon 



380 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

of coM water; bring to a boil slowly. Add a 
half pound of chopped fat salt pork with 2 
sliced onions and a bay leaf. Simmer gently 
for four hours. Then press and run the soup 
through a sieve. Return to the pot with a 
quart of canned tomatoes, and sweeten with 2 
teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar. Boil half 
an hour, strain the soup through a colander, 
and place over the fire. Thicken it with a 
tablespoonful of flour rubbed into the same 
quantity of butter. Boil up once, and serve. 

Mock-Turtle Bean Soup 

Make like white-bean soup, adding, at the 
last, a tablespoonful of butter which has been 
rubbed in a tablespoonful of browned flour. 
When the soup has boiled about a minute, add 
a glass of sherry. Peel and slice a lemon as 
thin as possible, place in the tureen with 3 
tablespoonfuls of hard-boiled eggs which have 
been cut into dice. This is a very good imita- 
tion of mock-turtle soup. 

Okra Soup 

Put 2 pounds soup meat in 2 quarts cold 
water; when it comes to a boil, skim, and put 
in 1/4 peck okra, 4 good-sized tomatoes' 1 onion, 
2 pieces celery, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped pars- 
ley, and 3 tablespoonfuls rice; the vegetables 



SOUPS 38J 

should be chopped fine; cook all together for 
four hours ; an hour before serving add % pint 
lima beans ; and fifteen minutes before serving, 
3 ears of corn cut from cob; last of all, the 
chopped parsley. A good soup may be made 
without the celery, corn, and beans. 

Parsnip Soup 

Melt 4 ounces butter in wide saucepan, and 
slice in 2 pounds tender parsnips; cook slowly 
till tender, then cover them well with any well- 
seasoned stock or broth, and boil for twenty 
minutes; press through sieve with wooden 
spoon, add enough stock to make 2 quarts in 
all, season with salt and white or cayenne perp- 
per, let it boil up once. Skim — serve — eat ! 

Split-Pea Soup-No. 2 

Pick over and wash 1 cup dried split peas; 
soak several hours in cold water. Put them on 
in 3 piats fresh cold water, and simmer until 
dissolved, adding water as it boils away, to pre- 
serve the original quantity. Keep it scraped 
free from the sides of the kettle ; when soft, rub 
through, a strainer and add water, milk, or 
stock to make the desired consistency — ^more a, 
puree than a soup. When it boils again, add 
a large tablespoonful each of butter and flour, 
that have been cooked together, with a tea- 



382 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



spoonful salt, and a saltspoonful wMte pepper; 
simmer ten minutes, and serve wich fried bread 
dice. 

If liot strained and thickened, it will separate 
as it cools. ' It is not necessary to boil salt pork 
with this soup, but it may be varied by using 
tomatoes,' an onion, or remnants of any meat, 
removing these before straining. The split 
peas have had the hulls removed and cook much 
quicker than whole peas. 

Baked-Bean Soup 

To a pint of baked beans add 1 quart water 
and a slice of onion; boil to a pulp, mash, and 
season. An equal part of sweet corn mary be 
added-; if dried corn is used, soak it overnight, 
chop, and add to beans after straining to re- 
move the indigestible hulls. Do not use the 
water in which it was soaked. ' 

Bean Soup 

Soak a pint of beans in 3 or 4 quarts of water 
overnight; pour off in the morning, and put the 
beans on to boil in 2 quarts cold water. 

Fry' a sliced onion in: a tablespo'onful of but- 
ter ^add to the beans, with a piece of celery root. 
Boil gently 'till the beans are soft, adding cold 
water as it boils away; this checks too rapid 
boiling and softens the beans. Then rub them ■ 



SOUPS 383 

through a strainer, and add salt, cayenne pep- 
per, and a saltspoonf ul of mustard ; let it come 
to a boil, and thicken with a tablespoonful of 
flour and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, which have 
been cooked together; this prevents the beans 
from settling. Slice a lemon and 2 hard-boiled 
eggs into the tureen, and pour over the hot 
soup. 

Serve with croutons. If tomatoes are de- 
sired, add half a can before straining; and a 
quarter pound of salt pork, or bones and odds 
and ends of meat, may be an improvement. 

The beans may be boiled to pulp, sifted, and 
thianed with brown soup stock, and when sea- 
soned with ground herbs, spices, force-meat 

balls, and wine, is not unlike mock-turtle soup. 

/ 

American Soup 

Cut into small pieces a pound of mutton (a 
piece from the neck will do) ; put, it in a sauce- 
pan with half a pound of split peas that have 
beeh soaked in cold water. Add 5 pints of 
water, bring to a boil, and add X chopped onion, 
half a turnip, half a carrot, and a stalk of 
celery (all chopped) and a teaspoonful of 
sugar. Simmer two or three hours. Cut into 
small pieces 3 or 4 good-sized tomatoes, add 
them to the soup, and boil thirty minutes 
longer. Strain through a fine sieve, season 



384 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND nSH 



with salt, pepper, a very little nutmeg or mace ; 
boil up, and serve with croutons or triangles of 
crisp toast. 

Lentil Soup 

After soaking a pint of lentils in cold water 
for three or four hours, put them in a saucepan 
with 1 carrot, 1 onion, 2 ounces of salt pork 
cut in small pieces, a bunch of savory herbs 
with parsley. Season with a half tablespoon 
of salt and 6 peppercorns. Add the bones of 
any cold fowl or small game. Pour over 2 
quarts of cold water and boil an hour, and rub 
through a sieve and return to the saucepan to 
get thoroughly heated. Cut some nice thia 
slices from the breast of the fowl or game used, 
put these in the soup tureen with a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and pour the soup over them. 

Serve with croutons or sippets of fried bread, 

SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 

Cranberry Soup 

Boil 2 quarts of cranberries in a quart of 
water until the skins crack, then rub through a 
fine sieve, dilute with boiling water, and thicken 
with a little fine tapioca. It may be seasoned 
with a very Utile salt and sugar to taste, and 
flavored with orange or lemon peel, or stick 
cinnamon and whole cloves boiled with the ber- 



SOUPS 385 

ries. Served hot with, little light suet dmnp- 
liags. 

Frijole Soup 

Frijoles are small red beans, highly esteemed 
by the Mexicans, and much used in California 
and the Southwest. The red beans to be found 
in the Eastern markets may be used in their 
place. 

Soak the beans overnight in cold water, then 
salt slightly, and cook all day in the same water 
until the beans are very soft and the liquor 
thick and rich. Eub them through a colander, 
and to each pint of pulp allow a half cup of 
stewed and strained tomato, an onion, and a 
chili pepper minced and browned in olive oil. 
Add enough water to reduce the soup to the 
right consistency, and when piping hot, serve 
with croutons. 

Meagre Soup 

This soup should be of the thickness of ordi- 
nary pea soup. Remove the withered leaves 
from 2 large lettuces, take 5 or 6 handfuls of 
sorrel, a few sprigs of parsley, and a small 
bunch of chervil. Shred all of these very fine. 
Slice and chop some onions, carrots, and leeks ; 
fry untU they are lightly browned in butter, 
then put in a saucepan with boiling Water. 
Add a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a large 



386 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND nSH 

lump of butter, and season with salt and pep- 
per. Stir occasionally to prevent any of the 
ingredients from sticking to the bottom. When 
thoroughly cooked press the vegetables through 
a sieve. Add more water to pulp, if necessary, 
and let the soup boil again before serving. 

Lentil Soup 

Pick over and wash a cupful of lentils. After 
soaking them for three hours, put on the stove 
to cook in 1 quart of boiling water. Cook 
slowly until soft and until the water is reduced 
one-half. Eub through a strainer and add a 
pint of milk. ' 

When it begins to boil, stir in 1 tablespoon- 
ful of flour cooked in a tablespoonful of butter. 
Season with paprika, salt, and a small amount 
of sugar. Serve with croutons. 

Squash Soup 

One cupful of cold boiled squash run through 
a colander ; beat into this 1 teaspoonf lil each of 
salt and of sugar, a little pepper and a pinch 
of mace, 1 tablespoonful of onion juice, and 2 
of minced celery. Place this on the stove, stir- 
ring constantly until it becomes very hot. 

Have ready a quart of heated milk, with a 
pinch of soda. Stir 2 tablespoons of butter 
and 1 of flour, blended, into the milk. Mix the 



SOUPS 3^7 

squash and the milk well together in the tureen 
and serve. 
Turnip soup can be made in the same way. 

Rice and Tomato. Soup . 

Boil to a pulp, in a quart of salted water, a 
dozen ripe tomatoes which have heen peeled 
and cut up. Strain, place on the stove again, 
and add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into 
the same quantity of flour. Add salt and sugar 
to taste, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and a 
tablespoonful of minced parsley. Cook ten 
minutes, then stir iu a cupful of boiled rice. 

Egg Soup 

Heat a quart of milk in a double boiler into 
which has been stirred a minced onion and a 
pinch of soda. Eub a tablespoonful each of but- 
ter and flour to a paste, and stir into the milk. 
Season to taste with pepper and salt. Poach 
6 eggs and lay them in the bottom qf the tureen, 
and when the soup is smooth and creamy, pour 
it carefully upon the eggs. 

Sago Soup without Meat 

Wash a teacupful of sago and then boil for 
an hour in a quart of water, with a pinch of 
salt and a little cinnamon or lemon rind. At 
the end of the hour the water should be reduced 



388 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

to one-half. Add a pint of red wine, and some 
slices of lemon, and 5 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Let it all come to a boil, and when ready to 
serve, sprinkle the surface with powdered cin- 
namon or nutmeg. 



CHOWDERS 

A CHOWDER differs from soup in being 
thicker, — ^more of the consistency of a stew, — 
thottgh sometimes served as a soup course, and 
crackers are either added to the chowder while 
cooking or are put in when it is dished, instead 
of being served separately. For fish chowders, 
cod or haddock is best, though bass is also used ; 
it should be a firm-fleshed fish, of a kind from 
which the bones may be easily removed — ^not 
one with many small bones. 

Fish Chowder 

4 pounds fish; 6 medium-sized potatoes; 2 
slices fat salt pork; 1 quart milk; 2 small 
onions; 2 teaspoonfuls salt; 1 saltspoonful 
white pepper; 6 Boston or butter crackers. 

Remove the skin from the fish ; with a boning 
knife out it clean from the bones, taking out the 
small bones near the head, if the latter has been 
left on. 

Rinse the fish in cold water, wipe with a dry 
cloth, cut in two-inch squares, and put it aside 
in a cool place. 

Crack the bones, which are rich in gelatine 

389 



390 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



(especially those of the head) ; put them to boil 
in sufficient cold water to cover. 

Pare the potatoes ai^d slice them one-fourth 
of an inch thick or less. The potatoes and fish 
should be about equal in quantity. Soak the 
potatoes in cold water for half an hour. Slice 
the onions and cut the pork into small dice and 
Sty togiether in a frying-pan, taking care that 
they do riot burn. Strain off the fat into the 
kettle; put in a layer of the sliced potatoes, then 
a layfer of the fish; adding the salt and pepper 
to each. Strain over them the water from the 
boiled bones, and add the rest of the boiling 
water. Let it boil up briskly, and keep it boil- 
ing steadily, but not too rapidly, for twen,ty 
minutes or until the potatoes 'are tender, but 
not bi-oken or mushy. When both fish and po- 
tatoes are tender add the milk, which has been 
heated with the butter, and stir carefully to 
allow the milk to mix with the chowder, without 
breaking the fish. Split the crackers and lay 
them on the top of the chowder, where they will 
absorb just enoiigh of the gravy to moisten 
them slightly. Let it boU up, lift the crackers 
carefully to the tuireen, and pour the chowder 
over them. 

A tablespoonful of cracker flour may be 
added to the hot milk, or a little flour rubbed 
into the butter, if the broth is liked thicker; a 



CHOWDERS 391 

little Worcestershire sauce or cayenne is added 
if a more highly seasoned dish be liked. The 
broth should be rich and creamy. A little finely 
minced parsley may be sprinkled over the top 
if desired. 

Clam Chowder 

Some clam chowders have the potatoes 
omitted, and a. quart of cider and pint of port 
are added. 

Some add salt pork and potatoes to this, 
which is a matter of taste, but not orthodox. 
Milk or cream should not be added, for what 
affinity is there between mUk and clams 1 It is 
a frequent combination, it is true, but one that 
is almost sure to cause indigestion. Take half 
a peck of hard or soft clams in the shell, which 
should be well scrubbed before they are opened. 
Beserve the dam juice, cut off the hard part of 
the clam, and chop fine (reserving, the soft part 
whole) ; put the chopped part in a poroelain- 
lined kettle with enough water to cover, and 
oook until they begin to grow tender. Mean- 
while peel and slice 2 onions and 6 medium- 
sized potatoes, and steam a poimd of sea-bis- 
cuit. TVTien the chopped clams are tender, re- 
move them with a skimmer and put in the po- 
tatoes, onions, a pint of tomatoes, all the clams 
and biscuit in layers ; seasoning each with salt, 



392 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

pepper, a little powdered sweet marjoram, 
savory, and thyme. Then cover all with cold 
water and cook gently for about twenty min- 
utes, or until potatoes and onions are tender. 
Before serving season more if liked. 

V 

French Fisherman's Chowder 

Put 1/4 of a cup of butter or good clarified 
dripping in a stewpan, and when melted add 3 
ounces of sifted flour and stir until smooth and 
bubbling; then cool and add a quart of stock 
or water, cut the meat carefully from a flounder 
or other fish of firm flesh, and put the bones and 
trimmings in the soup with a bay leaf, 2 cloves, 
a teaspoonful of essencQ of anchovy, or some 
well-seasoned table sauce; a little "^ cayenne, a 
teaspoonful of sugar, and 3 teaspoonfuls of 
salt; unless you use salted soup stock. Let it 
boil rapidly for ten minutes; skim, if any fiat 
arises. Cut the fish into neat pieces and lay 
in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley and half as much white potato, 
sliced thick, as you have fish. Strain the stock 
over this and add a pint of warm milk, and a 
little cream if you have it on hand. Let it cook 
slowly until the potatoes ai*e just tender, but 
keep their shape. Oyster liquor or clam broth 
may be used instead of the stock or water. In 
that case add the hot milk at the very last, when 



CHOWDERS 393 

the potatoes are done, and boil up once, and 
serve. 

Soft-Clam Chowder 

Clibp a quart of soft clams, peel and slice 6 
potatoes thin, tie up in a cheesecloth bag 6 
whole allspice and 6 cloves. Put 1/4 of a pound 
of minced salt pork into a pot and fry crisp, 
then remove the pork and fry a small sliced 
onion in the pot to a light brown. Add the 
potatoes and a can of tomatoes, the spice bag, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a quart of cold 
water. Cook four hours. After cooking three, 
and a half hours add the clams and 4 pilot bis- 
cuits that have previously been soaked in milk. 
Serve very hot. 

Scallops can be used instead of dams, and 
'treated in the same way they make a delicious 
chowder. More cayenne should be used than 
in the clam chowder. 

Terrapin Soup 

1 quart chicken or white stock; 1 pint ter- 
rapin meat; 1 cup cream; 2 hard-boiled egg- 
yolks; 2 tablespoonfuls butter; 1 tablespoonful 
rice flour; % teaspoonful salt; % saltspoonful 
paprika; a blade of mace; % glass madeira or 
sherry. 

Simmer the terrapin meat for half an hour 

in the stock, adding the salt, mace, and paprika. 
26 



394 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND HSH 

Mash the egg-yolks smooth, and add with the 
hot cream. Rub together the rice flour and 
butter until smooth, mix with a little of the hot 
liquor, then stir it into the Soup; let it boil a 
few minutes and add the wiae. 

Serve with dry plain boiled rice or rice- or 
egg-balls. 

Turtle Soup 

Make the red-legged turtle soup the same as 
terrapin. For green-turtle soup take : 

3 pints clear white stock ; 1 can green turtle ; 
1 onion; 2 tablespoonfuls butter; 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour; % teaspoonful salt; l^ teaspoonful 
paprika ; 1 lemon ; % glassful sherry ; 6 cloves ; 
6 peppercorns ; 1 bay leaf ; 1 blade mace ; 1 tea- 
spoonful mixed sweet herbs. 

If very fat, use only a small portion of it; 
cut this in dice and add at the last. Simmer 
the turtle meat for ah hour in the stock, with 
the sweet herbs and spices tied loosely in a 
piece of cheesecloth. Slice the onion and cook, 
it in the butter, but do not let it brown much; 
add the flour to the onion and butter, and stir 
until smooth. ' 

Add this to the hot soup with the salt and 
paprika ; let it simmer until thoroughly blended, 
then add the sherry and the fat meat. Sarve 
with a very thin slice of lemon in each plate. 



CHOWDERS 395 

Egg balls or liard-|)oiled egg-yolks cut in quar- 
ters may be served with the soup. 

Mock Terrapin 

Boil until tender 2 pounds of lean beef; let 
it cool in the liquor. Chop the meat rather 
fine ; put into a saucepan with a cupful of milk 
and 1 of stock. , Eub 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
Avith 1 of flour, add 2 teaspoonfuls of made 
mustard, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
and a little grated nutmeg. Put it over the fire 
and cook fifteen or twenty minutes ; add J pint 
of white wine and more salt if needed, and serve. 

Fish Soup 

Boil salmon, halibut, or cod in salted water 
until it flakes easily. Drain, remove skin, and 
bones, and rub through strainer. To 1 pound of 
fish use 1 quart milk, boiled with an onion, for 
ten minutes; take out the onion, thicken milk 
with 1 tablespoonful butter and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls flour cooked together. Add 1 teaspoonful 
salt and 1 saltspoonful pepper, and the fish. 
Let all come to a boil together, then serve. 

Red-Snapper Soup 

Bring a quart of white stock to a boil. Mince 
finely 2 cupfuls of cold cooked fish, which has 
been fr.eed of skin and bones, and stir into the 
stock. Add salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of 



396 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

chopped parsley, and a great spoonful of but- 
ter. Heat a cupful of milk to boiling, then 
thicken with a white roux and half a cupful of 
fine cracker crumbs. When the fish and stock 
have cooked for five minutes, stir into the 
thickened milk, and serve. 

Eel Soup 

Clean and cut 2 pounds of eels into inch- 
lengths. Put some dripping in a saucepan and, 
when hissing hot, fry a sliced onion in it. After 
rubbing the pieces of eels dry, place in the 
saucepan and fry on both sides to a light brown. 
Turn all in a covered saucepan, pour in 3 pints 
of water, and, cook slowly for an hour. Season 
with a pinch of mace and a larger pinch of 
cayenne, and 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley. 
Salt to taste. Stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter cooked to a roux with 1 of flour. Simmer 
three minutes, add the juice of a lemon, and 
serve. 

Crab Soup 

Cut in small pieces 4 good-sized tomatoes 
that have been washed and wiped (or use half 
a can of tomatoes). Mash and rub them 
•through a strainer fine enough to take out all 
the seeds. Pour boiling water over the seeds 
and skins to extract all the juice, and stf'ain this 
off also. Put this strained tomato in a sauce- 



CHOWDERS 397 

ipi I -■ ■■- ■ ■ ——I... 

pan with a clove of garlic, 1 onion, a small red 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of butter, and stew 
half an hour. Add a cupful of crab meat with- 
out the fat; pour over it boiling water enough 
to make 3 pints in all. Season with minced 
parsley, sweet marjoram, a spoonful of lemon 
juice, more salt if necessary, and, lastly, the fat 
of the crab. Simmer slowly for- an hour, 
thicken slightly with bread crumbs, and serve. 

Shrimp Gumbo 

Chop fine 1 red sweet chili and an onion, and 
cook slowly for half an hour in 4 tablespoonfuls 
olive oil. 

Add 1 pint okra (washed and sliced), 1 pint 
shrimps, and 1 pint water; cover and cook 
slowly half hour. Wash and flake % pound 
salt cod, cover with cold water, and bring to a 
boil; drain, and. repeat; when it comes to boil- 
ing the second time, squeeze dry, chop and 
sprinkle over the shrimps, with 1 level tea- 
spoonful salt. 

Moisten 1 tablespoonful flour in a little cold 
water, stir it in carefully, boil a moment, add 
a tablespoonful butter, and serve. 

Potato Chowder 

5 medium-sized potatoes; 3 thin slices of 
bacon, 1 pint milk, 1 medium-sized onion; 2 
teaspoonfuls Worcestershire sauce; 1 table- 



398 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

spoonful flour; 1 tablespoonful butter; 1 tea- 
spoonful salt; % saltspoonful pepper; a dash 
of cayenne. 

Pare the potatoes, slice them one-third of an 
inch; then cut in squares one inch or so across, 
throw them in cold water. Slice the onion, cut 
the bacon in dice, and fry together to a delicate 
brown. Drain the fat into a deep saucepan, 
put in the potatoes, distributing the crisped 
bacon with the salt and pepper through them. 
Nearly cover with boiling water and cook with- 
out stirring until the potatoes are tender, which 
will take fifteen or twenty minutes, 

Rub the flour and butter together, add the 
hot milk, blend well; stir it carefully into the 
chowder, taking care to break the potatoes as 
little as possible. Let it boil until th6 flour is 
cooked, add thei Worcestershire sauce with hot 
toasted crackers. 

Corn Chowder 

1 dozen well-filled «ars sweet corn; 1 pint 
sliced and peeled tomatoes ; 1 onion ; 3 medium- 
sized potatoes ; 1 slice fat salt pork ; 1 pint milk ; 
1 teaspoonful salt; 1 saltspoonful pepper; 1 
tablespoonful flour; 1 heaping tablespoonful 
butter. 

Pare and slice the potatoes and put them to 
soak in plenty of cold water. Cut the corn 



CHOWDERS 399 

from the cob, and put the latter in water 
enough to well cover, and boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Cut the pork in dice, slice the onion, 
and fry them together. Drain the water from 
the boiled cobs, add to it the fat, strained from 
the pork and onion; put in the potatoes, corn, 
tomatoes, and seasoning, and cook until the 
potatoes are tender. Eub the flour and butter 
to a cream with a little of the cold milk; have 
the rest of the milk hot, stir this and the flour 
and butter in carefully; let it cook until it 
thickens, and serve very hot with thin toasted 
crackers. 

Game Soup 

Use 2 grouse or partridges, or, if neither can 
be had, use a pair of rabbits; half a pound of 
lean ham; 2 medium-sized onions; 1 pound of 
lean beef; 2 stalks of celery cut into inch- 
lengths, 3 quarts of water ; fried bread ; pepper 
and salt to taste. Joint the game neatly; cut 
the ham and onions into small pieces and fry 
all to a light brown. Put into the soup-pot 
with the beef, which has been cut into strings, 
and a little pepper. Pour the water on; heat 
slowly, and stew gently for two hours. Take 
out the pieces of bird, and cover in a bowl; 
cook the soup an hour longer, strain through 
a sieve, and add the two stalks of celery. 



400 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Simmer for ten minutes, pour upon fried 
bread in the tureen. 



A GROUP OF FOREIGN SOUPS, ETC. 

Portuguese Soup 

Soak 8 selected prunes in cold water over- 
niglit ; in the morning drain the prunes and add 
to the water in which they were soaked enough 
stock to make a quart, and 3 leeks cut in two- 
inch pieces ; sinjmer till tender, then put in the 
prunes and season with salt and pepper. Serve 
hot with strips of toast. For four persons. 

Court-bouiHon 

Fry 3 sliced onions in 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
in bottom of stewpan, without burning; add 1 
tablespoonful flour, mix well ; add slowly 1 pint 
beef stock ; when smooth, ;put in 1 pound sliced 
fish, 2 peeled and sliced tomatoes, and 1 cup 
claret or % cup vinegar; then another layer of 
fish and tomatoes. Simmer half an hour. Let 
the fish be skinned and boned. 

Bouillabaisse 

"Bring me a bowl of bouillabaisse." — ThaCkeeay. 

Put a gill of sweet oil into a kettle, with 2 
medium-sized onions and 2 cloves of garlic, 
chopped fine; shake over the fire till golden 
brown. 



CHOWDERS 401 

Add 1% pounds each of halibut and haddock, 
washed and sliced, and a bay leaf, 2 cloves, 2 
thin slices of lemon; a tomato, peeled, and the 
seeds pressed out; a teaspoonful salt, and a 
saltspoonful pepper. Cover, and cook slowly 
twenty minutes ; add a quart of boiling water 
and bring to a boil and skim. 

Put in a dozen clams or oysters, a tablespoon- 
ful chopped parsley. Have a lobster (or a 
half-dozen crawfish) ready boiled and hot; dish 
the fish on a platter, with the oysters around 
the edge, and the lobster on top, sprinkled with 
chopped parsley. 

Add a teaspoonful of " kitchen bouquet " to 
the soup in kettle, and pour over 6 large crou- 
tons ia a deep dish. Serve a crouton, a piece 
of fish, one af lobster, some oysters, then a 
ladle of soup. 

This takes the place of both soup and fish in 
the order of dishes. 

Pot au Feu 

For ten persons take 4 pounds of beef ,— let 
it be the rump or round of beef,— a marrow- 
bone, and with 3 quarts of cold water, and a 
teaspoonful of salt, heat slowly and carefully, 
removing scum as it rises. Keep adding a 
tablespoonful of cold water to assist its doing 
so, and skim most particularly until the soup 



402 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

is clear. Wlien it is thoroughly skimmed, cover 
tightly to keep out the dust, and let simmer 
gently for two hours. Add an onion stuck with 
3 cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
5 or 6 outer stalks of celery, a leek, 2 carrots, e 
bay leaf, a turnip, and a teaspoonful of whole 
pepper. The vegetables should be added grad- 
ually, that the temperature of the soup may not 
be lowered. Let the vegetables simmer gently 
and continuously for two hours longer, or until 
they are tender. Add a little more pepper and 
salt, if required, and serve the bouillon in a 
tureen, and, as a remove, the bouilli (meat) 
and vegetables. Time for cooking, five hours 
from the time it begins to boil. 

Beer Soup (German Method) 

Simmer 2 quarts of mild beer (it should not 
be bitter) with the thin rind of a lemon, a few 
cloves, and a stick of cinnamon; sweeten with 
sugar, and add it, through a sieve, to the well- 
beaten yolks of 6 eggs and half a pint of cream. 
Whilst pouring into the tureen, stir into a froth 
with a wire whisk. 

The beer should be very hot, but not boiling, 
when stirred into the eggs. Serve hot with 
toast. Time, about half an hour to simmer. 
There will be sufficient of this for eight or ten 
persons. 



CHOWDERS 403 

Fruit Soups 

On a blistering hot day fruit soups served 
very cold are sometimes more acceptable than 
one that must be served very hot to be pala- 
table. For this purpose cherries, apricots, 
peaches, plums, and other meaty fruits are best. 
They may be used separately for a soup that 
takes its name from the fruit used, or may be 
combined and called simply fniit soup or given 
a more fanciful name from some flavoring used. 

These soups are only slightly sweetened, as 
the tartness is an agreeable preface to a hot- 
day dinner. 

1 pint crushed fruit; 1 pint water; i^ pint 
red wine or % glassful currant or raspberry 
jelly; a stick of cinnamon; a blade of mace; 
juice and a little grated rind of lemon ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar ; 2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot. 

Stew the fruit in the water until soft, crack 
a few of the stones, and add the kernels w^hile 
cooking. Strain through a coarse strainer, 
using a silver spoon to press the pulp through 
the strainer. Put back into the saucepan ; add 
the lemon juice, sugar, and arrowroot, which 
has been mixed with cold water, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Let it cook until the 
arrowroot is clear. Add the jelly and stir until 
dissolved. Take from the fire and cool, then 
add the wine, and put on the ice until thor- 



404 ^ 30UPS, CHOWDERS/ AND FISH 

oughly chilled. Serve in bouillon cups, with 
bits of cracked ice and a few whole cherries or 
firm red raspberries to each cup. 

Small triangles of buttered toast, or toastel 
wafers, may be served as an adjunct. 

Should the water boil down while the fruit 
is cooking, add more. It should be the con- 
sistency of a thick fruit syrup when strained. 

Cider Soup 

Put a pint of cider, just beginning to work, 

into a kettle; add a pint of water, and bring 

to a boil. Add a tablespoonful of flour stirred 

smooth in a little cold water, and cook a few 

moments before adding a cup of boiliag milk, 

sugar to taste, and cimiamon to flavor. Serve 

with toast. 

Apple Soup 

Put 4 cups of peeled and quartered apples 
over to cook, with water to keep them from 
scorching. When mushy rub through a sieve, 
add a piat and a half of water, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a little cinnamon. 
Thicken very slightly with corn starch. Dried 
plums, prunes, or cherries may be soaked over- 
night, then cooked in the same way. 

Chocolate Soup 

Sweet soups are essentially German, but they 
are nearly always welcome in families where 



CHOWDERS 405 

there are children or the aged. Chocolate soup 
is especially nourishing. Put a quarter of a 
pound of grated chocolate* into a saucepan 
with 3 pints of milk, which should be boiling 
when the chocolate goes in. Sweeten to taste, 
and cook fifteen minutes. Before serving stir 
in the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten up in a little 
milk, and a pinch of salt. Pour this over fried 
dice of bread or rolls, and serve ; or serve with 
waferettes, butterines, or saltines. Just before 
serving, the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs 
may be cooked in spoonfuls on the top. 

German Farina Blocks 

Beat an egg till fairly light; stir in 4 table- 
spoonfuls farina slowly, that it may not lump, 
till about the consistency of molasses ; ^dd % 
teaspoonful salt. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls olive 
oil, pour in the farina mixture, and brown 
slowly, for at least ten minutes. Turn, like a 
pancake, and brown on other side; lift carefully 
and drain on clean brown paper; cut into 
%-inch cubes, put into soup tureen, and pour 
over the hot seasoned stock. 

Force-meat Balls 

Take chicken, veal, beef, or any left-over 
meat, chop fine enough to make 40 tablespoon- 
fuls, which will be sufficient for six people. Mix 



406 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, season 
with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, and a few drops of onion juice. Mix 
in thoroughly the yolk of an egg, make into tiny 
balls, and drop into a small quantity of the 
boiling stock. 

.Do not let them boil rapidly, or they will 
break apart. Cook five minutes, drain, put into 
soup tureen; pour in the hot stock. 

Matzoth Soup Balls 

Jewish Recipe 

Soak 3 matzoth in cold water, squeeze dry, 
and add 1 pint meal. Put 1 tablespoonfu) 
rendered suet in a frying-pan with 6 sliced 
onions, and cook till brown; then add the 
matzoth, 6 well-beaten eggs, % teaspoonful 
salt, and 1 saltspoonful each of mace, ginger, 
and pepper. Shape into balls, drop into hot 
oil, and cook slowly, so they will not break to 
pieces, for half an hour. 

Liver Klosse (for Soup) 

Take % calf's livpr and mince it small; mix 
with 4 ounces of finely shredded suet, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little pepper 
and salt, the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs and the 
whites of 2 eggs, and as much crumb of bread, 
soaked in milk and pressed dry, as will bind 



CHOWDERS 407 

it together. Form into egg-s)iaped balls, cook 
these in salted boiling water half an hour, and 
serve in soup. Half a teaspoonful of any herb 
powder that is liked may be added with the 
parsley. Sufficient for six or seven persons. 

Caramel— or Burnt Sugar 

For Sauces and Soups 
Put a quarter of a pound of finely sifted 
sugar into a porcelain-lined saucepan, and place 
over a moderate fire. Stir continuously with a 
wooden spoon until it is of a dark brown color ; 
then add* 1 pint of cold water. Draw it to one 
side and let simmer for a quarter of an hour. 
Strain, and bottle for use. If the fire is too 
hot, the caramel will be discolored. A few 
drops added to sauces or soups will give the 
desired color. 

Croutons 

Cut bread (stale) into %-inch slices, remove 
the crust, and cut into i/^-inch strips and then 
into y2-inch cubes. Fry in hot clarified fat until 
lightly browned, then drain ; or place in baking- 
pan in very hot oven, and serve. 



FISH 

To be either wholesome or palatable, fish 
must be thoroughly cooked. If boiled suffi- 
ciently the flesh is apt to break in pieces, and 
since boiling extracts the juice, unless it is one 
of the finer flavored fish, it is improved by some 
other method of cooking than boiliag. The 
more common varieties can be boiled to advan- 
tage ; salmon is a perfect fish for boiliflg, keep- 
ing its delicious flavor unimpaired. Mackerel 
is one of the best fish for boiling, and a thick 
cut of halibut is delicious boiled and served 
with a HoUandaise or egg sauce. 

Cod, bluefish, and haddock may be either 
boiled or steamed by handling carefully to pre- 
vent their breaking, and made very tempting 
by the garnishing of lemon that is required and 
by serving with them a highly seasoned sauce. 

If there is no fish-kettle, a drainer on which 
to boil the fish may be improvised by using a 
perforated pie-plate. Fasten a strong twine 
or piece of picture wire through the holes in 
opposite sides of the plate in such a way that 
it will serve as handles to lift by without tip- 
ping from side to side. On this lay the fish, 

408 



FISH 409 

and let it down in the kettle. Or an ordinary 
plate may be used, tying it in a square of 
muslin. By this means the fish can be lifted 
out of the water without breaking. 

If the fish is of a very tender variety, binding 
it with strips of cheesecloth or thin muslin will 
prevent its breaking and keep it in shape. 

Boiling should be done gently, as rapid boil- 
ing will cause the outside to fall apart before 
it is thoroughly cooked inside. 

Lemon should always enter into the cooking 
or serving of fish ; nothing else will as effectu- 
ally cut the oil, though a piquant sauce made 
with the best of vinegar will, by its high season- 
ing, be a sufficient dressing for the drier or less 
oily kinds. 

From six to ten minutes for each pound, ac- 
cording to the thickness of the fish or cut, is re- 
quired for boiling. It is done when the flesh 
is tender and falls easUy from the bone. 

Coquilles of Fish 

Take a pint of cold boiled fish, free it of skin 
and bones, and break it into small pieces. Put 
it into a saucepan with half a pint of boiling 
water, a tablespoonful of thick cream, a table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour, a teaspoonful 
of anchovy sauce, and salt and pepper to taste. 

Stir all together over the fire until it becomes 
27 



4»0 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND nSH 



thoroughly heated, then fill buttered shells with 
the mixture and cover with fried crumbs. Set 
in the oven until they become heated. Serve 
on a napkin. 

Savory Fish Cakes 

Boil together the heads, tails, fins, and bones 
of any fish in enough water to cover them. 
Season with onion juice, herbs, a little mace, 
and salt and pepper. Mince the fish, and mix 
together 2 parts of fish to 1 of bread crumbs. 
Moisten with melted butter and the white of 
an egg, and fry nearly ten minutes in butter. 

Strain the gravy and put it into a stewpan 
with the fish. Cover the kettle closely, and 
stew gently for fifteen minutes. 

Fish h la Cr&me 

1 pound of salt fish ; 1 pint of milk; yolks of 2 
eggs; 1 tablespoonful of butter; 1 tablespoon- 
ful of flour; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 1 teaspoonful 
(scant) of pepper. 

Let the fish soak overnight or for several 
hours. Next day boil the fish and then pick 
apart into large flakes. Rub the butter and 
flour together, add the milk, and let it come to 
a boil. Remove from the fire, add the yolks of 
the eggs, the fish, and the seasoning. "When 
thoroughly heated, turn into a buttered baking- 



FISH 411 

dish, sprinkle bread crumbs over tbe top, and 
place in a hot oven to brown. 

Be careful not to bake it too long, as the egg 
will separate. 

Scalloped Fish 

Use the remnants of cold boiled or baked 
fish; if baked, use the stuffing and any of the 
sauce for moistening. Eemove all bones and 
skin, and flake the fish. 

Into a well-buttered baking-dish put a layer 
of fish, a layer of stuffing, then one of well- 
buttered bread crumbs, moistening with cream 
sauce, or sweet cream, well seasoned with salt 
and cayenne. Fill the dish with layers of fish 
and crumbs, covering with crumbs well but- 
tered. Bake until nicely browned. 

Fish with Mashed Potato 

Take any cold fish, either boiled, baked, or 
fried. Free from all skin and bones, flake into 
medium-sized pieces. Butter a baking-dish; 
line the bottom and sides with smoothly mashed 
potato, that is well seasoned and beaten light 
with one lightly beaten egg. Leave the potato 
quite thick around the edges of the pan, and 
do not smooth it on top, but leave as rough as 
possible. 

Add to the flaked fish one-half as much bread 
crumbs and moisten with white sauce or any 



412 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

fish sauce that may be left over; season with 
salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of Worces- 
tershire or chili sauce ; fill the space left in the 
middle of the potato, dot the top of the potato 
with bits of butter, and bake in a hot oven for 
fifteen minutes, or until the potato is nicely 
browned. Serve in the same dish. 

Eemnants of cold meat may be treated in the 
same way. The fish or meat should have 
enough sauce or gravy to make it quite moist, 
and should be quite highly seasoned. 

Fish Cutlets 

Cut cod, haddock, or any good-sized, firm fish 
into slices the size and shape for cutlets, 
sprinkle each with salt and pepper, roll in fine 
cracker crumbs ; then dip in beaten ngg to which 
a spoonful of milk has been added, then in the 
crumbs again. Fry, until well done and a nice 
brown, in butter or good beef drippings. Put 
the cutlets on a hot platter, and pour around 
them a hot tomato sauce. 

Fish Croquettes 

Take the remnants of cold boiled or baked 
fish. Remove every bone and break into fine 
bits. To 1 cup of fish allow % cup of rich 
white sauce. Heat the sauce, remove from 
the fire, and add 1 beaten egg. Add the fish, 
and with a fork mix and ))eat thoroughly. 



FISH 4J3 

Season with salt and pepper and Worcester 
shire sauce, adding, if liked, two or three drops 
of onion juice. Add V2-cup of bread crumbs 
that have been slightly browned in butter. Mix 
thoroughly; if too stiff, add a little more sauce 
or sweet cream. When cool* form into balls, 
dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat 
until they are a nice brown. 

Boil the bones, head, and tail of the fish with a small 
onion in sufficient water to make a sauce. Strain off the 
liquor and season with anchovy and tomato. Thicken with 
a little flour rubbed smooth with cold water. Serve very- 
hot with the sauce poured around the croquettes. 

Fish P^t6 

Free a piat of any cold cooked fish of skin 
and bone, and shred fine. Put into a saucepan 
and add 1 pint of milk, 2 well-beaten eggs, i/4 
of a cupful of flour mixed well with a little of 
the milk. Season with a little salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg. Stir until it is as thick as cream. 
Put alternate layers of sauce, fish, and bread 
crumbs into a buttered baking-dish, and set in 
the oven until it becomes a golden brown. It 
will take only a short time to cook. 

Casserole of Fish 

Any kiad of cold cooked fish may be used. 
Flake the fish, season with salt and pepper and 
a little Worcestershire sauce, and moisten with 



4J4 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

cream sauce or thick cream. To each cup of 
flaked fish allow 1 hard-boiled egg and 1 cup 
of well-seasoned mashed potatoes. Butter a 
mould of the right size, line it with the potato, 
and fill the case with alternate layers of fish, 
slices of egg, aVid mashed potato. Steam 
twenty minutes, or bake ia a moderately hot 
oven fifteen minutes. Turn out on a hot plat- 
ter, and garnish with oress or parsley. 

Fish en Matelote 

Take any good, firm fish, clean it well, and 
cut it into strips two or three inches long. 
Sprinkle with salt, and set aside. Peel and 
slice 2 onions, put them in a saucepan, and boil 
until tender; drain. Season with salt and pep- 
per, pour in a teacupful of hot water and half 
a teacupful of sherry; add the fish, and set 
over the fire to simmer. When ready to serve, 
drop a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour 
into the saucepan, and let it all come to a boil. 

Rissoles of Fish 

To any quantity or kind of cold cooked fish, 
weighed after the bones and skin have been re- 
moved, add a third part of grated bread 
crumbs, a finely minced boiled onion, some cold 
white sauce, and the yolks of 2 eggs ; season 
with pepper and salt. Make puff paste, roll it 
thin, and cut it into squares of two inches. 



A C0L0NIALTHANK5GIVING DINNER 

IN THE • TWENTIETH • CENTURY 

By Arv.iv.ji Wells Morrisotx 







JNDULCD THEDAY THSTHOUSDTHEIRANNUAL- GRAIN 
^ITH FEASTS AND OFFERINGS AND A THANKFUDSTRAipi 

-POPE- 




Thanksgiving Dinner (Continued) 



FISH 4J5 

Place abput a teaspoonful of the mince on each 
square, and fold over with paste. Wet the 
edges of the paste, before closing them, that 
they -may adhere, and fry in boiling fat, first 
egging and covering the rissoles with bread 
crumbs. Serve dry. Garnish with fried pars- 
ley. 

Fish ^ la Paris 

Cut any good, firm fish into small pieces, 
dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, and fry 
until brown in butter. Turn into a pot contain- 
ing a pint of boiling water and half a teacupful 
of vinegaj. Add a finely chopped onion, 2 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and a teaspoonful 
each of ground mace, cloves, and allspice. 
Cover closely, and simmer for an hour. Serve 
very hot, and garnish with sweet fennel. 

Broiled Bluefish 

Split the fish down the back and soak for half 
an hour in strong salted water. Dry thor- 
oughly with a towel, rub. the broiler with salt 
fat pork or butter before putting the fish in. 
Broil under a gas flame or over clear hot coals. 
A medium-sized fish will require about twenty 
minutes to broil. Broil the flesh-side first, and 
turn frequently. Serve on a hot platter gar- 
nished with cress and lemon, and pour over the 
fish a little melted butter. 



4J6 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND nSH 

Bluefish may also be pan-broiled, by laying 
it flesb-side down on a well-greased, very bot 
griddle. Wben well browned, turn carefully 
witb a pancake turner so as not to break the 
fish. Serve with Lyonnaise or French fried 
potatoes. 

Baked Bluefish 

Clean and scrape the fish, split down the 
back, and remove the backbone, which can be 
done with a boning knife. Score the skin with- 
out cutting into the flesh, making five or six 
incisions. Eun the sharp point of the knife 
under the skin sufficiently to insert a thin slice 
of sweet salt pork. 

Make a stufGbig of 1 cup bread crumbs, 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter or finely 
chopped salt pork, a teaspoonful of chopped 
onion, the same of chopped parsley, a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a dash of cayenne and a balf tea- 
spoonful of kitchen bouquet, and a spoonful of 
tomato catsup. Mix well and, if too dry, add a 
tablespoonful of hot Water. Fill the fish and 
sew up the opening. If a richer 'and more 
moist dressing is desired, add a well-beaten egg 
without any water. 

Lay 2 or 3 slices of pork under the fish to 
prevent its sticking to the pan, and baste sev- 
eral times with the fat while baking. When 
cooked and well-browned lift, without break- 



FISH 4J7 

ing, to the hot platter, and garnish with sliced 
lemon and watercress. 

Baked Fresh Codfish with Cheese Sauce 

Lay a square or oblong of fish in salt water 
for half an hour; wipe dry, and rub well with 
lemon juice and butter. 

Put a cupful of strained veal stock, or weak 
gravy, in the bottom of the baking-pan under 
the grating. Do not let it touch the fish. Lay 
the fish on the grating, salt and pepper it, cover, 
and bake, allowing ten minutes to a pound. 
Take from the oven; sift dry fine crumbs over 
it, and place small pieces of butter on these. 
Return to the oven, uncovered, and let it brown 
while you strain the gravy from the pan. 
Thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour, 
season with the juice of a lemon, a little onion 
juice, and 4 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Boil one minute, pour a little round the 
fish, and the rest into the gravy-boat. 

Baked Chowder 

Gut 2 pounds of cod, or any other firm fish, 
into inch-squares. Fry a small sliced onion in 
a large tablespoonful of butter, strain, and 
return butter to frying-pan. Put the small 
squares of fish into the pan and toss and turn 
them until they become well coated. Pack the 



418 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

fish in a buttered bake-dish alternately with 
slices of parboiled potatoes, half a pound of 
finely minced salt pork, small pieces of butter 
which have been rolled in flour, minced parsley, 
and 2 chopped tomatoes. Pour over this a 
large cupful of oyster liquor which has been 
seasoned with salt and paprika. Cover with 
split Boston crackers that have soaked half an 
hour in milk. Cover the dish and bake for an 
hour. ^Then remove the cover and brown. 

Baked Creamed Codfish 

Clean the tail of a cod, boil it in salted water, 
adding a sprig of parsley. When it is cooked, 
drain and wipe it; then open down the back, 
take out the bones, and separate the meat into 
pieces. Place them in layers in a dish, and 
between the layers a little bechamel sauce 
thinned with cream, a small piece of butter, and 
a suspicion of nutmeg. Sprinkle the top with 
a few bread crumbs, and set in the oven to 
brown. 

Cod d la Bechamel 

Remove the fish from the bones and break 
into small pieces. Put a cupful of nicely sea- 
soned white stock and a cupful of fresh milk 
into a saucepan. Thicken with a little butter 
rubbed into a little flour, add the fish, and let 
it remain until it becomes thoroughly heated, 



nSH 419 

but do not allow the sauce to boil. Turn the 
fish and sauce out on a hot platter, and serve 
with a border of mashed potato. It takes about , 
twenty minutes to prepare this dish, 

Biscayan Cod 

Remove the bones from 2 pounds of cod, and 
soak in cold water overnight. Put over the 
fire in fresh water, and heat slowly to boiling, 
then add fresh water and boil again; take out 
and scale. Heat a gill of oil, and fry in it 2 
chopped onions and a green pepper for a few 
minutes, and put in a bruised clove of garlic, 
a sliced tomato, and a chili pepper; add 3 pints 
of broth, and season with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce and a bunch of parsley; then add 
a pint of peeled potatoes, and cook twenty min- 
utes : then put in tte cod, boil for twenty min- 
utes longer and serve. 

Salted Cod with Brown Butter 

Soak the fish in cold water overnight; if not 
sufficiently freshened, put in boiling water a 
few minutes; long-continued soaking deprives 
the fish of its flavor as well as saltness. 

Wash carefully, put over the fire, and let it 
slowly come to a boil. Move the kettle to 
back of stove, skim, ajid boil gently for forty 
minutes. 

Heat a little butter, and in it brown a few 



420 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

sprigs of parsley; pour this over the fish, and 
serve at once. 

Baked Cod*s Head 

Head and portion of the shoulders of cod; 
1 teaspoonful of onion juice; % pound of veal 
or chicken ; 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; 
1 teaspoonful of salt ; 1 saltspoonful of pepper. 

Trim and wash the fish. Chop the veal, add- 
ing the onion juice, parsley, salt, and pepper. 
Fill the fish with this mixture, place in the 
baking-pan with half a cupful of water. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour, basting frequently. 
When the head is nearly done, baste with melted 
butter, and sprinkle browned bread crumbs 
over it. Serve with brown sauce. 

Broiled Salt Cod 

Select a moderately thick, fleshy piece of 
cod that has been boned. Lay it in a shal- 
low dish and pour boiling water over and let 
it stand five or ten minutes, if very salt or if it is 
liked very much freshened. Pour off this water 
and put more boiling water on and let it stand 
another five minutes ; put it on the broiler and 
broil over hot coals or under a gas flame, letting 
it brown, but taking care that it does not burn. 
Take it out on a hot platter, cover generously 
with butter, dust with pepper, and serve with 
potato cakes and brown bread or corn mufiins 



FISH 42J 

or buttered brown-bread toast. Smoked fisb, 
salmon, or halibut may be cooked in the same 
way. 

Creamed Salt Codfish 

Cut a sufficient amount of fish into small 
pieces, cover it with cold water and let it come 
to a boil, and simmer until tender. Drain, and 
pick it into small bits, but do not mince it too 
fine. Make a cream sauce by rubbing together 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 1 of flour and 
add to, it 1 cup of milk. Boil until it 
thickens, and if not perfectly smooth, strain it. 
Put in the fish, add pepper, and let it heat thor- 
oughly. 

Or omit the flour, and after the fish is thor- 
oughly heated in the milk and butter, stir in a 
well-beaten egg and remove from the fire. 
Stir briskly until the sauce is thick and crealny. 
Add a dash of paprika. 

Baked potatoes, and Graham or entire wheat 
gems or muffins, are good accompaniments, or 
it may be served on crisp squares of toast. 

Beauregard Cod 

Boil a pound of cod and set it aside to get 
cold. Flake with a silver fork into small pieces. 
Heat a pint of fresh milk in a double boiler, 
thicken it with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
into 2 of butter. Stir in the fish, season to 



422 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



taste, and cook five minutes. Turn out in a 
dish containing squares of buttered toast. 
Have 4 hard-boiled eggs ready, with the yolks 
powdered and the whites cut into rings. 
Sprinkle the powdered yolks over the fish and 
lay the rings around the edge of the platter. 

Boiled Fresh Codfish 

Lay a square, ' ' chunky ' ' piece of fish in salt 
and water for an hour. Sew it up in a piece 
of white mosquito netting, put in a kettlf 
with enough boiling water to cover it well, add 
2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and cook steadily, 
allowing ten minutes to the pound. Unwrap 
the fish and pour over it egg sauce. 

Salt Codfish Balls 

Put the codfish in cold water and let it come 
to a boil; then pour off the water, cover with 
fresh boiling water, and simmer slowly until 
tender. Eemove the bones and mince the fish 
fine. Boil potatoes and mash while hot, beat- 
ing them until light and smooth, as if to be 
served alone. Add butter, pepper, and a little 
milk or cream. 

Use 1 cup of minced fish to 2 cups of mashed 
potatoes ; mix well and add enough well-beaten 
egg to bind, and have the mixture just moist 
enough to make into balls. Form intb round 



FISH 423 

balls two inches in diameter, and fry in a basket 

xxi. deep, Iiot fat until a rich brown. 

Serve with these steaming hot Boston brown 

bread, kept hot in a steamer and sliced at the 

last moment. 

Codfish Cakes 

Prepare the fish and potatoes the same as for 
codfish balls; add a little finely minced parsley. 
Shape it into flat cakes three-fourths of an inch 
thick. Saute until a rich brown on both sides 
with slices of salt pork or bacon, removing the 
pork to a hot platter as soon as nicely crisped, 
and arranging it around the cakes. 

By cooking the fish the day before it is 
wanted, and using mashed potatoes left from 
dinner, or made ready with the fish, these cakes 
can be quickly prepared for breakfast. 

Codfish Fillets, Hollandaise 

Put the desired number of fillets of cod in a 
buttered stewpan, with 1 gill of stock; sprinkle 
lightly with minced parsley, and set either in 
the oven or on the stove to cook. When done, 
place on a dish with a border of mashed potato, 
and serve. 

Codfish, Maitre d'Hdtel 

Trim your fillets of cod and roll them in flour. 
Beat and season 2 eggs, dip the fillets in these, 
and then roll in sifted bread crumbs and fry 



424 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

to a golden brown. Serve with maitre d 'hotel 
sauce in a boat. 

Codfish Hash 

Flake a cupful of cooked cod, and add grad- 
ually 2 cupfuls boiled potatoes; season with 
salt and pepper to taste; cook gently in hot 
butter. 

Codfish in Cream Sauce 

% pound of codfish; 1 pint of milk; yolk of 
1 egg; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour ; 1 saltspoonful of salt ; 1 saltspoon- 
ful of pepper. 

Soak the cod overnight in cold water. In the 
momiug pick it apart and place it in a kettle 
of boiling water ; bring to the boiling point and 
drain. Place in boiling water again, and let 
it cook slowly about ten minutes. Drain. Cook 
the flour and butter together until smooth, add 
the milk," and when it begins to boil add the 
codfish, salt, and pepper. Place over hot water 
for twenty miuutes, then add the yolk of the 
egg and serve immediately. Serve in a border 
of mashed potatoes, or with plain boiled po- 
tatoes. 

Codfish h la Bonne Femme 

Soak 3 pounds of salt codfish overnight. In 
the morning wash and rinse the pieces well and 
cut into strips. Wash and peel a quart of po- 



FISH 425 

tatoes and put them in a saucepan with 2 quarts 
of cold water ; add half a tablespoonful of salt, 
4 sprigs of parsley, and 1 clove stuck in an 
onion. Boil twenty-five minutes, then add the 
pieces of codfish. Cook slowly for ten minutes.' 
Take the fish out and place it on a hot platter, 
removing all pieces of skin and bone. Drain 
the potatoes, then place them around the fish. 
Put 1 heaping tablespoonful of butter and 1 of 
flour into a small saucepan and stir for three 
minutes, but do not let it brown. Slowly pour 
into the saucepan 1 pint of the strained water 
in which the fish was cooked. 

Season with half a saltspoonful of pepper 
and let it simmer for eight minutes. Eemove 
from the fire and add the well-beaten yolks of 
2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and 1 table- 
spoonful of butter. Mix well together and 
pour over the fish and potatoes. Serve very 
hot. 

Codfish with Macaroni 

2 ounces of macaroni ; % pound of salt cod ; 
% pint of strained tomatoes ; 1 tablespoonful of 
butter ; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; 1 tablespoonful 
of onion juice; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 1 salt- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Break the macaroni into small pieces and boil 
rapidly for half an hour ; drain ; throw into cold 
water and let stand for fifteen minutes. "Wash 

28 



426 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

and cut the codfish into small blocks. The fish 
should have soaked overnight. 

Rub the flour and butter together, add the 
tomato, and let it come to a boil, stirring con- 
stantly. Now add. the macaroni, fish, onion 
juice, salt, and pepper. Mix uuiil boiling, 
stand over hot water for thirty minutes. 

Matelote of Codfish 

Wash and rinse a medium-sized cod; wipe 
until dry and remove the bones. Fill the fish 
with a dressing made of % pint of oysters, a 
small pint of bread crumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
butter, Yz an onion, 1 egg, % tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, and a little pepper. Lay 
some slices of salt pork on the grating of your 
baking-pan; place the fish on these, and lay 
more slices on top of the fish. Boil the fish- 
bones in a pint of water and pour into the bot- 
tom of potatoes and put them in a saucepan 
with 2 quarts of cold water. Add % table- 
spoonful of salt, 4 sprigs of parsley, and 1 clove 
stuck in an onion. Boil twenty-five minutes, 
then add the pieces of codfish. Cook slowly 
for ten minutes. Take the fish out and place 
it on a hot platter, removing all pieces of skin 
and bone. Drain the potatoes, then place them 
around the fish. Put 1 heaping tablespoonful 
of butter and 1 of flour into a small saucepan 



FISH 427 

and stir for three minutes, but do not let it 
brown. Slowly potir into the saucepan 1 pint 
of the strained water in which the fish was 
cooked. Season with % saltspoonful of pep- 
per, and let it simmer for eight minutes. Re- 
move from the fire and place in the pan. Bake 
for an hour, basting occasionally with the 
gravy and the butter. Have a bouquet of herbs 
in one corner of your baking-pan. Pour the 
gravy around the fish and serve immediately. 

Codfish Souffl6 

% pound of salt cod ; 2 eggs ; 1 pint of mashed 
potatoes ; 1 saltspoonful of pepper. 

Pick the fish apart and wash it well in cold 
water ; then cover with boiling water •and let 
stand for thirty minutes ; drain, and press dry. 

Beat the mashed potato until very light, stir 
in the fish, add the pepper, then the yolks of 
the eggs, and lastly, fold in the whites of the 
eggs, which have been well beaten. Put into a 
baking-dish, and bake in a hot oven until a 
golden brown. 

This souflSe is good to take the place of cod- 
fish balls. 

Stewed Codfish 

% pound of salt codfish ; 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter; 1 quart of milk; 2 potatoes; 2 crackers; 
% teaspoonful salt; 1 saltspoonful of pepper. 



428 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



Soak the codfish overnight in cold water. 
When ready to make the stew, cut the fish into 
small pieces and put into the stewing-pan with 
the potatoes, which have been cut into blocks. 
Cover with boiling water, and boil for ten min- 
utes ; then drain, and add the milk. When the 
milk has become scalding hot, add the crackers, 
which should be crushed fine. Season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. 

A Salt-Cod Tidbit 

Soak 2 pounds of salt cod overnight. In the 
morning wash and scrub it well, and cover with 
hot water in which an onion has been boiled. 
Let the fish lie in this until the water is cold. 
Then t^e the fish up and place between two 
towels until perfectly dry. Broil on both sides, 
turning it twice. 

Lay it in a hot-water dish; break to piecps 
with a fork, and cover well with hot drawn but- 
ter, seasoned with pepper, minced parsley, and 
the juice of 1 lemon. Let it stand, covered, for 
ten minutes over the hot water before serving. 

Cod Tongues with Egg Sauce 

Soak the tongues overnight in warm water, 
changing it once. Put them in boiling water 
and boil for ten minutes. Have hot pieces of 
toast on small platter; cover the tongues with 
egg sauce, and serve them on the toast. 



FISH 429 

Cod Tongues, Fried 

Have 2 dozen cod tongues washed; dip eacli 
separately in cold milk, then roll in flour. 

Heat 2 tablespoon fuls of butter in a frying-pan, 
lay in the tongues without their touching each 
other, and cook three minutes; turn, and cook 
on the other side for three minutes more. 
.Serve with a gill jot tomato sauce in a sauce- 
boat. 

Cod Tongues, Poulette 

Blanch 18 tongues ; put into saucepan with a 
pint of Hollandaise sauce and I/2 giU ot the 
stock in which they were blanched. Add a tea- 
spoonful chopped parsley, and heat a few min- 
utes without allowing it to boil. Turn into 
dish, sprinkle over a little finely chopped pars- 
ley, and serve. 

Cod Tongues with Black Butter Sauce 

Put into a saucepan 18 blanched cod tongues 
with half a gill of the stock they were blanched 
in; let them get hot, but do not boil. 

Drain and lay on hot dish ; pour over them a 
pint of black butter sauce. 

Broiled Mackerel 

Select a medium-sized fresh mackerel, wash, 
and wipe very dry. Take out the gills and insides. 
Split it down the back and wipe the inside thor- 



430 SOUPS, CHOWDER^, AND FISH 

ougMy. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
brush it over with a little butter. Put it on the 
broiler with the inside next to the fire, which 
must be clear and hot. When nearly done, turn 
and cook on the outside. It is done when the 
backbone can be easily removed. Take out the 
bone, lay the fish on a hot platter with the in- 
side uppermost, and pour over it a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, a 
teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt, and pep- 
per, and set it in the oven for a few minutes 
until the butter and lemon juice are absorbed. 

Boiled Mackerel (German Method) 

Clean a large fresh mackerel and split it 
down the back. Put it in a dripping-pan and 
pour over it a pint of boiling water, 2 table- 
spoons of vinegar, a squeeze of lemon juice, and 
a teaspoon of salt. Add a medium-sized onion 
cut in quarters. Boil for three-quarters of an 
hour. Remove the fish to a hot platter. Strain 
the liquor in the pan, add a doizen capers, let it 
boil up, and turn over the fish. 

Mackerel Broiled, and Tarragon Butter 

Eemove the inside of the fish through the 
gills and vent without opening it. Wash, clean, 
dry, and make a deep incision down the back; 
lay the fish in a little salad-oil; keep it well 
basted for about three-quarters of an hour, but 



FISH 43J 

cut off the nose or part of the head and tail be- 
fore it is steeped in the oil. Broil over a clear 
fire, and when done, have ready the following 
mixture, with which fill up the incision : Work 
a little butter, pepper, salt, and tarragon-leaves 
chopped and steeped in vinegar together. When 
ready, serve the mackerel with some of the but- 
ter spread over it on a hot dish. Time, from 
ten to fifteen minutes to broil. 

Mackerel, Caveach 

Divide large fresh fish, after being well 
cleansed and dried in a cloth, into 5 pieces, and 
rub each piece with spice, as follows: Pound 
an ounce of black pepper and 6 blades of mace ; 
mix them when pounded with 2 ounces of salt, 
and % ounce of grated nutmeg. Use all the 
above spices for 6 fish, rubbing well in, that 
every piece may be thoroughly seasoned with 
spice; then fry in oil. Drain, and put the fish 
neatly into a jar, which fill with good vinegar, 
adding clarified butter or oil to exclude the air. 
Tie down closely. Mackerel so prepared will 
keep for six months. Time, ten minutes to 
fry. 

Baked Fresh Mackerel with Oyster 
Dressing 

Scrape and clean the fish; make an opening 

in the side and remove the entrails, cut off the 



432 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

head and tail. Wash well in cold water and fill 
the opening with a dressing made of 1 dozen 
oysters, chopped, and 1 teacupful of bread 
crumbs, the chopped yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs. Season with a half teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a tablespoonful of butter, a little minced 
parsley, salt, and pepper. Add the yolk of 1 
raw egg, mix well together, and fill the fish. 
Sew up the opening or skewer it together, with 
small skewers or modern toothpicks. 

Lay the fish on a well-buttered baking sheet, 
put it in the dripping-pan, and dredge with 
flour, and pour around it a cupful of boiling 
water and the sauce of stock. Baste often with 
melted butter and the drippings. Bake in a 
hot oven, and when done slide, withdut break- 
ing, on the hot platter and make a brown sauce 
with the liquor in the pan, adding sufficient 
boiling water, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato 
catsup, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
and more salt and pepper if necessary. 

Red snapper and other medium firm fish may 
be baked in the same way. 

Baked Shad 

Clean and scale a medium-sized shad. Cut 
off the head and tail, cut open sufficiently to 
take out the entrails. Wash in cold water and 
dry on a towel. Fill the opening with a dress- 



FISH 433 

ing made of 2 cups of bread crumbs, the beaten 
yolk of 1 egg, a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a few drops of 
onion juice, or a spoonful of finely minced 
onion, a tablespoonful of finely powdered sweet 
herbs, 2 or 3 crushed cloves; a half teaspoonful 
of salt, pepper, and a dash of Worcestershire 
sauce. 

Sew up the opening, lay the fish on the but- 
tered sheet. Score the fish and put a slice of 
salt pork in each gash. Dredge lightly with 
flour, dust with salt and pepper, put it in the 
baking-pan, pour a cupful of water in the pan, 
and bake in a hot oven, fifteen minutes for each 
pound of fish. When done, lift the tin from 
the pan and slide the fish carefully on to a hot 
platter. Gfarnish with a border of potato balls 
and slices of lemon, and serve with a HoUand- 
aise or sauce piquante. 

Creamed Shad 

Free a pint of cold cooked shad from bones 
and flake it very fine. Make a white sauce by 
cooking together a tablespoonful of butter with 
1 of flour, and when nicely blended, add a pint 
of rich milk. Now add a few drops of onion 
juice, and pour slowly upon the well-beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs. 

Season- with salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful 

/ 



434 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

of minced parsley. Stir the shad into the 
sauce, then turn into a weil-buttered pudding- 
dish, sprinkle thickly with fine bread crumbs, 
and bake about twenty minutes. 

Broiled Shad 

Clean the fish, split down the back, wash in 
cold water, and wipe it dry. Brush lightly with 
melted butter, dust with salt and pepper, and 
broil over a clear fire or under the gas flame. 
When the inside is done and nicely browned, 
turn and broil slightly on the skin side. 

Serve with a maitre d'hotel sauce, or, if pre- 
ferred, a bechamel or HoUandaise. 

Fried Sliad-Roe 

Wash the roe and cook ten or fifteen minutes 
in boiling salted water with a tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Pour off the water and then plunge 
into cold water. Drain then on a towel and 
roll in beaten egg and fine cracker crumbs, well 
seasoned, and fry in very hot fat. Serve with 
tomato sauce poured around it. 

Planked Fish-Shad 

This most tempting of camping-out deli- 
cacies may be indulged in at the home table, 
and although the outdoor appetite and some of 
the delicate flavor imparted by cooking before 



FISH 435 

an open fire may be lacking, this manner of 
cooking some fish, especially shad, is held by the 
fish-lover to be second to none. 

The white-oak planks, with trays for serving 
the fish without removing from the plank, can 
be obtained at first-class house-furnishing 
shops. They should be seasoned before the 
first using, by rubbing over with sweet butter 
and heating in allot oven until slightly browned, 
taking care that they do not scorch. The flavor 
of the scorched wood will ruin the fish. 

The planks should not be washed after using, 
but should be cleaned by scrapiflg with a dull 
knife and wiping off with cold water. 

While shad is the fish par excellence for 
planking, any other fish that is usually split 
down the whole length may be cooked in this 
way. 

Clean and scale the fish and split it open from 
head to tail. Place it on the board with the 
skin side down and fasten it securely with pegs 
or thumb tacks. Stand it on eiid or side before 
a clear fire or cook under a gas flame. When 
nearly done, baste with melted butter and shake 
salt and melted butter over it. If it is to be 
served on a platter, remove the fastenings, slide 
it off carefully to the hot platter, and garnish 
with pickled walnuts and some melted butter 
flavored with walnut catsup. 



436 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Creamed Shad-Roe with Mushrooms 

Parboil a large shad-roe for two or three 
minutes, and plnpge it in cold water. Drain 
and break it in small pieces and saute in butter 
until brown. Add while in the pan 1 cup of 
cream, salt, and pepper, and 1/2 cup of mush- 
rooms cut in small pieces and steiwed for fifteen 
minutes. Rub a teaspoonful of flour with a 
little of the cold cream until smooth; stir this 
in and let it boil up, stirring carefully, without 
breaking the roe more than necessary. Serve 
very hot. 

Scalloped Shad-Roe 

Boil the roe as before. Break apart with 
a fork. Butter a baking-dish and put a 
layer of roe in the bottom. . Sprinkle with 
minced parsley, a little lemon juice, and the yolk 
of a hard-boiled egg mashed fine or rubbed 
through a strainer. Then add a thin layer of 
bread crumbs. Moisten with white sauce. Put 
in another layer of roe, seasoning, and egg, 
cover with the crumbs well buttered, and bake 
imtil nicely browned. 

If there is a little cold fish, it may be added 
to the roe. 

Roe Croquettes 

Boil the roe as for frying ; when cool, remove 
the skin and mash it with a fork. To 2 shad- 
roes allow a half cupful of cream and a half cup- 



FISH 437 

ful of thick stock. Rub together 1 tablespoonful 
of butter and 2 of flour, and add to the boiling 
cream and stock. Cook until it thickens, take 
it from the fire, and add the yolks of 2 well- 
beaten eggs, beating all together, i 

Season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash 
of cayenne, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, and 
a little minced parsley. Add the shad-roe, mix 
well together, and when cool form into cro- 
quettes. Dip in beaten egg, then in fine cracker 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Serve with Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Halibut Baked with Milk 

Scrape the dark skin of the halibut, dipping 
it in boiling water. Lay the fish in the baking- 
pan, first rubbing it well with salt and white 
pepper. Pour around it % to % of a cup of 
milk. Bake until the flesh loosens and sepa- 
rates from the bone, basting often with the 
milk. A 4-pound cut of halibut will require 
nearly an hour to cook thoroughly. The milk 
should nearly all cook away or absorb in the 
fish, and will serve to make it more moist. 
When done remove to the hot platter without 
breaking, take off the skin, lift out the bone, 
garnish with slices of leinon and hard-boiled 
egg, and serve with cream sauce, plain drawn 
biitter, or egg sauce. 



438 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

This may be varied by filling the cavity left 
by the bone with buttered crumbs moistened 
slightly with a little cream sauce, dotting with 
bits of butter, and putting in the oven until 
well browned. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Baked Halibut with Lobster Sauce 

Take a thick cut of halibut, let it lie in salted 
water for half an hour, then drain and dry it, 
and put it in the baking-pan with .2 slices of 
carrot, a slice of onion, and % a bay leaf. Pour 
over it a cupful of boiling water in which have 
been melted 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Bake 
for an hour, basting frequently. A piece of 
buttered writing paper laid in the bottom of the 
pan will prevent the fish from sticking and 
breaking in transferring it to the hot platter. 
By running a knife or spatula under the paper 
it can be raised and slid off from the pan, and 
the paper can then be withdrawn and the skin 
removed, leaving the fish in shape. 

Boiled Halibut 

Have a cut of halibut from 2 to 3 inches ia 
thickness. Rub with salt, and pour over it 2 
spoonfuls of lemon juice and let it stand where 
it will be kept cold for an hour. Put it in the 
fish-kettle and cover well with cold water, bring 
quickly to a boil, then keep it boiling gently 
until done. Lift carefully to the hot platter 



FISH 439 

without breakmg, garnish with slices of lemon, 
hard-boiled egg, and serve with plain drawn 
butter or cream sauce or chop the egg and add 
to the cream sauce. 

Broiled Halibut 

Take halibut steak an inch and a half thick. 
Wipe dry, sprinkle with salt, and brush it oves 
with soft butter. Broil over a clear fire until 
both sides are nicely browned. Place it on a 
hot platter, garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley, and serve with sauce piquante. 

French fried potatoes and baked tomatoes 
are a good accompaniment. 

Devilled Halibut 

Pick either cold cooked halibut or cod into 
small pieces with a silver fork. Make a force- 
meat of bread crumbs, the yolks of 2 eggs, a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, seasoned with 
salt, paprika, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and 
1 of minced parsley. Mix this with the fish, 
add enough oyster liquor to make quite moist, 
and fill scallop-shells with the mixture. 

Cover with fine crumbs, pepper and salt them, 
place a small piece of butter on each, and bake 
until lifeht brown. 

Halibut h la Creole 

Marina;te a halibut steak for an hour in oil, 
lemon juice, and onion, with a sprig of parsley. 



440 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Drain, and put the fish on the rack of the roast- 
ing-pan. Turn over it a sauce made of 1 ciapful 
of strained tomatoes, a tablespoonful of butter, 
half a tablespoonful of flour, a few drops of 
onion juice, salt, and a little paprika. Cover 
closely, and bake until the fish is tender. Then 
sift over the fish a tablespoonful of grated Par- 
mesan or American cheese ; cook with the cover 
off for five minutes longer. Lift the fish out 
carefully to a hot platter, and pour the sauce 
around it. 

Halibut Steak Baked with Tomatoes 

"Wash and clean the fish, then lay in salad oil 
and lemon juice for an hour; place upon the 
grating of your covered roaster, and pour the 
following sauce over it: Make a rich sauce of 
either fresh or canned tomatoes, season with 
sugar, pepper, salt, and onion juice, and a 
sweet green pepper, seeded and minced. Cook 
for fifteen minutes, strain, rub through a col- 
ander, and then let it cool before pouring over 
the fish. Cook • thirty minutes. 

Halibut Steak S la Flamande 

1 large halibut steak; 1 chopped onion; yolk 
of 1 egg ; 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice ; 1 salt- 
spoonful of pepper; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 1 
tablespoonful of butter. 

^ash a,nd wipe the steak. Sprinkle the 



nSH 44V 

chopped onion over the bottom of a greased 
baking-pan and lay the fish on this. Turn the 
beaten yolk of the egg over the steak ; dust with 
salt and pepper, pour over the lemon juice, and 
the butter cut into small pieces. Place in a hot 
oven and bake thirty minutes. Turn out on a 
hot platter and garnish with parsley and slices 
of lemon. Serve with a brown sauce made in 
the pan the fish was cooked in. 

Cheese and Halibut Scallop 

Have 2 cupfuls of cold cooked halibut, flaked 
coarsely with a fork. Make a good white sauce 
by cooking together a tablespoonful of drawn 
butter with 1 of flour, and when nicely blended 
add a pint of rich milk. Season, and pour 
slowly upon the well-beaten yolks, of 2 eggs. 

Fill a bake-dish with alternate layers of the 
fish, sauce, and very mild grated cheese, using 
altogether about 4 tablespoonfuls of the cheese. 
Cover the top with crumbs, bake for thirty min- 
utes in a hot oven, and serve hot. About ten 
minutes before serving remove the cover, and 
brown. 

Boiled Salmon 

Clean the salmon and scrape the skin, wipe 
dry, and put it in the kettle with sufficient boil- 
ing water to cover it. Keep the kettle where 
it will boil gently. When done, drain well, re- 

29 



442 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

move carefully to a hot platter, and serve gar- 
nished with slices of lemon and hard-boiled 
eggs. Piquant or HoUandaise sauce is one of 
the best accompaniments to salmon. 

A border of Parisienne potatoes piled around 
the platter, or heaped in mounds alternated 
with the slices of lemon, makes a pretty dish. 
The potato baHs should be fried in a frying 
basket in deep, hot fat until they are a nice 
brown. 

Striped bass is excellent boiled in the same 
way as salmon and served with HoUandaise 
sauce. Remove the head and tail of any fish 
that is to be cooked whole. They are most un- 
appetizing and unsightly. 

Baked Salmon-Trout with Cream Gravy 

"Wash, wipe dry; anoint well, inside and out, 
with melted butter and lemon juice. Lay the 
fish upon the grating of the baking-pan, pour a 
little boiling water in, but not enough to touch 
the fish. Bake, allowing twelve minutes to the 
pound, and baste twice with butter and twice 
with water from the pan below. 

Place the fish in a hot covered dish, and set 
where it will keep hot while you strain the gravy 
left in the pan. Add to the gravy a cupful of 
scalded milk with a pinch of soda. Thicken 
with a white roux of butter cooked with flour, 



FISH 443 

and season witli salt, paprika, and a little 
minced parsley. Pour this over the fish ; let it 

stand a few moments, and serve. 

• 

Boiled Salmon-Trout 

Buy a small fish and, after cleaning it, place 
it in a kettle with enough boiling water to cover, 
and add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar to the 
water. The fish should be sewed up in a piece 
of cheesecloth and placed Carefully into the 
kettle. Boil, allowing twelve minutes to each 
pound of fish. When done, remove the fish 
carefully, and turn out of the cloth upon a hot 
platter. 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour a 
well-seasoned white sauce over it. Garnish the 
platter with sprigs of parsley and thin slices of 
lemon. 

A Curry of Salmon 

Eemove all bits of skin and bone from a can 
of salmon. Fry a minced onion in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil. When the onion becomes 
brown, stir in a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with a teaspoonful of curry powder, and when 
these are well blended together add a large cup- 
ful of boiling water. 

Season with salt and paprika, and turn the 
salmon into the saucepan. Cook two minutes, 
then serve. 



444 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Broiled Smoked Salmon 

Take a piece of raw smoked salmon, wash it 
in 2 waters, rubbing off all the salt. Lay in a 
frying-pan with enough warm water to cover 
it; let it simmer fifteen minutes. Remove it, 
wipe dry, and lay on a buttered gridiron to 
broil. When it is browned on both sides, turn 
out on a hot platter, butter it well, and pepper 
it. Grarnish with parsley. 

Salmon Mayonnaise 

Have a quart of salted water and atablespoon- 
ful of vinegar boiling in a kettle. Lay 2 salmon 
steaks carefully in the water. Boil slowly, and 
when done, but not at all broken, take carefully 
from the water and drain. Set aside until cool 
and then place on ice until wanted. Lay the 
steaks on a cold platter, and cover them 
smoothly with a thick mayonnaise. Garnish 
with watercress. 

Pickled Salmon 

Take a fine fresh salmon, and having cleaned 
it, cut it into large pieces, and boil it in salted 
water, as if for eating. Drain it, wipe it with a 
dry towel, and set it in a cold place until the 
next day. Then make the pickle in proportion 
to the quantity of fish. To 1 quart of the water 
in which the salmon was boiled, allow 2 quarts 
of good cider vinegar, 1 ounce of whole black 



FISH 445 

pepper, 1 grated nutmeg, and a dozen blades 
of mace. Boil all of these together in a covered 
kettle. Remove the kettle from the fire, and 
when the vinegar has become cold, pour it over 
the salmon and put a tablespoonful of sweet oil 
on the top to make it keep longer. Cover 
closely, put in a cool, dry place. This is a nice 
way to pickle salmon, and it will keep good for 
many months. 

Salmon on Toast 
Toast thin slices of stale bread quite brown 
and crisp. Butter while hot. Heat 2 cupfuls, 
or 1 can, of cold salmon picked into small flakes ; 
add a cupful of lobster sauce, a half cupful of 
sweet cream, salt, white pepper, and a dash of 
paprika. When very hot remove from the fire, 
stir in 1 egg (beaten very light), and pour over 
the toast. Sift a little very finely minced pars- 
ley over the top, or garnish with watercress. 
Drawn butter or oyster sauce may be substi- 
tuted for the lobster sauce. 

• 

Salmon Pie 

Butter a baking-dish, line the sides with a 
rich biscuit crust. If fresh salmon is used, 
rinse thoroughly and wipe dry, cut in conveni- 
ent pieces, and lay it in the dish. Season with 
salt and pepper, lemon juice, 1 or 2 blades of 
mace, broken fine, and, if liked, a few drops of 



446 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

onion juice. Pour over the salmon 1 cupful of 
boiled lobster which has b^en picked apart and 
thoroughly mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and a teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

Cover with the crust, cut a few slits to allow 
the steam to escape. Bake for an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

XI!anned salmon may be used instead of the 
fresh, baking in a quicker oven just long enough 
to bake the crust. 

Scallop of Salmon 

Open a can of salmon two or three hours be- 
fore using, and remove all bits of skin and bone. 
Flake the fish into small pieces. Make a white 
sauce, and when done stir in the salmon. Pour 
all into a well-buttered pudding-dish, cover with 
bread crumbs and small pieces of butter, and 
bake. 

Baked Smelts with Oyster Force-meat 

Clean, wash, and wipe dry, then fill with a 
force-meat made of 1 part fine crumbs, 3 parts 
finely minced oysters, a tablespoonful of melted 
butter to each cupful of the force-meat, sea- 
soned with salt, paprikd, and a little minced 
parsley. 

Sew the fish up with long stitches ; lay on the 
grating of your covered roaster, having a little 



FISH 447 

boiling water under the grating. Bake twenty 
minutes, basting once with butter when nearly- 
done. Serve with lemon sauce. The threads 
should be cut carefully and drawn out before 
serving. 

Fried Smelts 

Cut off the tails and split open, and take out 
the backbone and insides. Wash and wipe dry. 
Sprinkle inside and out with salt and pepper, 
and fry in hot fat. Serve with sauce tar- 
tare. Or crum^ them and saute in drippings 
and serve with HoUandaise of sauce piquante. 

Another way is to open the smelts at the gills 
and press out the insides by drawing them 
through the thumb and fingers from the tail 
end. "Wash out the opening, press dry, cut off 
the tail, dust with salt and pepper, roll in flour 
or white cornmeal, or half of each, and fry in 
deep, hot drippings until crisp and browned. 

Stuffed Smelts 

Clean the smelts, wash and wipe dry, and fill 
them with a stuffing made of bread crumbs and 
melted butter mixed with an equal amount of 
tomato, and season with salt and pepper, or 
with half the amount of tomato catsup. 

Or add of chopped oysters the same amount 
as there is of bread crumbs; season with salt 
and pepper and a very little lemon juice. Sew 



448 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

up the opening, lay tliem in a buttered baking- 
pan, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. Serve 
with mattre d 'hotel or parsley butter. 

Flounders au Gratin 

Cut up parsley, .shallot, and small button- 
mushrooms very finely. Fry them in butter, 
with a seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover the 
bottom of a tin flat baking-dish, previpusly but- 
tered, with the herbs,^ and lay on them a floun- 
der, neatly trimmed, or fillets of- any flat fisli. 
Strew bread crumbs thickly over, and bits of 
butter on the top of all. Moisten with white 
wine. Cook carefully. Crisp the top with a 
salamander. Serve very hot and with a squeeze 
of lemon over the dish. Time, twenty minutes. 

Fried Flounders (English) 

Lay the fish in salt and water for an hour or 
more to get rid of the muddy flavor, or rub them 
well on the sides with sgilt, which will make tl;ie 
fish firm. Dry them, dip into egg, and cover 
with bread crumbs. Fry in oil or boiling fat, 
and serve on a hot napkin. Grarnish with 
crisped parsley. 'Time, five to ten minutes to 
fry. 

Fillets of Flounders 

Bone the flounders by splitting down the back 
and removing the backbone, running the boning 



FISH 449 

knife under the small bones and taking the flesh 
off clear and whole; or the dealer will do this. 
Cut the flounders into four flUets, after discard- 
ing head and tail. Wash in cold salted water 
and wip'e dry. Crumb them by dipping in egg 
and fine bread crumbs seasoned with salt and 
pepper and a little minced parsley. Fry (saute) 
in hot drippings until a rich brown, and serve 
with maitre d 'hotel or tomato sauce, or any 
well-seasoned fish sauce. 

Or make a sauce as follows: Take 1 cup of 
rich cream sauce or drawn butter, add a table- 
spoonful of chopped pickles, a teaspoonful of 
finely minced parsley, a teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, a tablespoonful of crushed capers, the yolk 
of a hard-boiled egg (mashed smooth), and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Beat thoroughly 
together, and serve either hot or cold. 

Finnan-Haddie h la Delmonico 

Pick a pound of finnan-haddie into small 
pieces. Make a sauce by cooking togpther 2 
tablespoonfuls' of butter with 2 of flour, until 
they bubble ; then add a pint of rich mUk. Add 
the yolks of 2 eggs, well-beaten,, and 3 hard- 
boiled eggs, cut up fine; 1 tablespoonful of 
grated Edam cheese, and pepper to taste. Mix 
the fish with the sauce and heat it all thoroughly 
together, and serve at once. 



450 SOUPS, CHOm)ERS, AND nSH 

Broiled Finnan-Haddie 

Cut the finnan-haddie into small squares, 
skin and parboil ihem. Wipe the squares of 
fish until they are dry, place on a buttered grid- 
iron, and broil until they are highly -browned. 
Lay the fish on a hot platter and put a small 
piece of butter on each square. Garnish with 
slices of lemon. 

Fried Eels 

Skin the eels, plunge them in boiling salted 
water, and keep at boiling point for five min- 
utes. Cut them in pieces about three inches 
long, and roll in flour or fine cracker crumbs; 
fry in hot drippings until brown, turning them 
so they will brown on all sides. Serve with any 
fish sauce that is liked, preferably one that has 
lemon juice or vinegar in its composition, 

Balced Eels 

Skin and parboil as for frying. Cut in con- 
venient lengths, put them in a baking-pan, 
dredge with flour, salt, and pepper, and add 
half a cup of water. Bake twenty minutes, take 
them out on a hot platter, and make a gravy 
by stirring into the pan a tablespoonful of flour, 
rubbing it smooth in the liquor in the pan. 
When smooth, but not browned, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of Worcester- 



FISH 4SJ 

shire, a little boiling water; stir until smooth 
and bubbling, and pour around the eels. 

Braised Eels (Royal Style) 

Skin and wash an eel, and cut in 2-inch 
pieces; sprinkle with salt and allow them to 
stand an hour or two. Put into cold water for 
ten minutes; then dry, and put in a buttered 
saucepan, season with salt and pepper and a 
suspicion of nutmeg ; over the whole put a little 
scraped parsley root, a few whole white pep- 
pers, and a few slices of lemon and shallots. 
Put the saucepan over a moderate fire, with hot 
ashes on the lid, and braise till the fish is done. 
Take out the pieces of eel and keep hot while 
you add to the saucepan a cupful of stock; boil 
a few minutes, then thicken with a white roux; 
take from the fire, add the slightly beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs. Let it come to a boil, and strain this 
into a saucepan with twice the quantity of Ger- 
man sauce; let it boil once; pour over the eel, 
and serve. 

Tuibot a la Cr^me 

Boil 3 pounds of turbot or cod in salted water. 
Remove from the fire, take the fish out and free 
it from all pieces of skin and bone, and flake it 
finely. Boil 1 bunch of parsley and 1 large 
onion in a little water to extract the flavor. 
Drain out the onion and parsley and thicken 



452 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

the water with 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, then 
add 1 quart of very rich milk and I/2 cupful of 
butter. Put alternate layers of fish and sauce 
in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle the top 
thickly with bread crumbs, and bake until 
brown. 

Turbot Fillets 

Select a medium-sized turbot with firm, yel- 
lowish-white flesh. "Wash well in salted water, 
and soak in strongly salted water for thirty 
minutes. Wash off again in clear, cold water, 
and wipe dry. Take off the skin, and cut the 
fish in two the whole length. Take out the 
bone, and remove the entrails ; wash out the in- 
side, and cut each part into 2 or 3 fillets. 

Rub with melted butter, dust with salt and 
pepper, and saute or broil over hot coals or 
under a gas flame until a rich brown. Serve 
with maitre d 'hotel or parsley butter, or 
cucumber sauce. Garnish with cress. 

Stuffed Sea Bass 

After cleaning and wiping the fish, lay it in 
a marinade of salad oil and vinegar. Fill the 
fish with minced salt pork and fresh mush- 
rooms, if you can get them; if not, use chopped 
champignons. 

Bake the fish as directed in the last recipe, 
placing thin slices of pork underneath and on 



FISH 45i 

top of the fish. After it has baked about forty 
minutes, cover with thin slices of tomatoes and 
half of a minced sweet green pepper. Put 
some bits of butter upon the tomatoes and bake 
for twenty minutes more. 

Take the fish from the pan and set to one 
side. Strain the gravy, rubbing the pepp'er 
and tomatoes through a colander, stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter, rolled in flour, add a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and 2 of onion juice; turn 
in a little hot water if it is too thick. Boil one 
minute, then pour part over the fish and the 
rest into the gravy-boat. 

Both bluefish and muskalonge are good 
treated in the same way. 

Boiled Black Bass with Cream Gravy 

After washing the bass well sew it up in a 
closely fitted pieice of cheesecloth. Place in a 
pot with enough water to cover it, add a little 
salt, a gill of vinegar, an onion, 8 whole peppers, 
and a blade of mace. 

Bring slowly to a boil, and then boil steadily, 
allowing twelve minutes to each pound of fish. 
When done remove the cloth, turn the fish on 
to a hot platter. Garnish with slices of lemon, 
and serve with the following cream gravy : 

A tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
'cooked until they blend, then a cupful of the 



454 soups, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

strained boiled bass water stirred in, until it 
all becomes smootli and thick. Season to taste 
with celery salt and pepper, and stir in a giU 
of cream. ' As soon as it becomes very hot, 
remove from the fire. 

Baked Bass with Shrimp Sauce 

Clean and wipe the fish well and wash in- 
side and out with salad-oil and vinegar. Set 
on ice for an hour. Cut half a pound of rind- 
less salt pork into very thin slices ; lay half on 
the bottom of the bake-pan, put the fish on them, 
and then spread the rest of the pork on top of 
the fish. Pour a little hot water in the pan, 
cover, and bake for an hour. Baste two or three 
times with butter and water. Turn out on a 
hot dish, and set where it will keep hot while 
you make the gravy. 

Shrimp Sauce for Baked Bass 

Make a roux of a tablespoonful of butter and 
1 of browned flour ; stir this into the gravy left 
in the pan. Add 4 tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water, the juice of half a lemon, cayenne to 
taste, and half a can of finely chopped shrimps. 

Boil for a moment, pour some upon the fish, 
turn the rest into the gravy-boat. 

Steamed Red Snapper 

Clean, wash, and dry a 4-pound fish. Slice 
some tomatoes and place on the bottom of your' 



nSH 455 

steamer ■with a minced onion. Place the fish on 
top of these, and steam slowly for an hour or 
more. 

After the fish has steamed about thirty min- 
utes, turn it carefully over. 

Serve with oyster sauce or with sauce tar- 
tare. 

Boiled Red Snapper 

After cleaniiig and washing a red snapper, 
wipe it dry and sew up in a coarse mosquitu 
netting. Put it into a vessel with enough boii- 
ing water to cover it well, drop a pinch of salt 
in the water, and flavor with lemon juice. After 
the water comes to a boil turn the heat almost 
off, and let it simmer for half an hour. Take 
from the water carefully, drain, and unwrap; 
then turn out on a hot dish, and garnish with 
parsley, or serve with tomato sauce. 

Baked Red Snapper 

Draw, clean, and then wipe a 5-pound red 
snapper. Ivlarifiate it inside and out with salad- 
oil and lemon. 

Make a stuffing of 1 well-beaten egg, 1 cupful 
of drained and chopped oysters, and half a 
cupful of powdered crackers. Add a table- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful 
of minced parsley, Ys teaspoonful of paprika} 



456 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



moisten with cream and the oyster liquor 
until it is quite moist. After the fish is filled 
with the dressing sew the edges together. Put 
a layer of minced fat pork, together with a 
few slices of tomato and onion, on the grating 
of the roaster. Place the fish on this, and 
dredge the top with flour and salt, and place 
more minced pork on the top. Add a cupful of 
hot water and bake for about an hour in a hot 
oven, basting often. Serve with HoUandaise 
sauce. 

Broiled Bloaters 
Scrape and clean the bloaters well, then wipe 
dry with a towel. Split from head to tail and 
lay them flat upon a buttered gridiron. Broil 
for about six minutes, turning so as to cook on 
both sides. When they are done, place them 
on a hot platter with a little butter over them, 
and serve at once. 

Sardine Fritters (German) 

Cut slices of bread into equal-sized shapes 
not more than ^ inch thick, and enough of them 
to form a ring around the edge of a small dish. 
Beat 2 or 3 eggs and mix them with rather more 
than their measure of milk. Soak the bread 
slices in this, and fry them in butter a delicate 
pale brown. Lay the slices around the edge of 
your dish, letting one slice rest on the edge of 



FISH 457 

the other. Lay poached eggs in the middle of 
the dish, and put on them the following sauce, 
which must be thick enough to spread: Mince 
the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs quite small. 
Chop fine some parsley, a little sprig of tarra- 
gon, and some pimpernel orburnet. Melt a piece 
of butter in a stewpan, put in the minced herbs, 
and stir them a few minutes to soften; then add 
salt, pepper, and the minced eggS; with a des- 
sertspoonful of gravy, the same of lemon juice 
or vinegar, a spoonful of capers, a little oil and 
mustard, and, if required, a few crumbs to 
thicken. Stir ^11 together. Put a small tuft on 
each poached egg, and spread the rest on the 
wreath of sippets. Take about a dozen of sar- 
dines, bone them, and mince them small with a 
piece of butter and a little payenne. Divide 
and spread this on the sippets; place th^m tp 
warm for a minute in the oven, and serve. 

Sheep's Head a la Creole 

Into a stewpan put a chopped onion, and 
after removing the seed, a finely chopped green 
pepper.. Brown for five minutes in a gill of 
oil ; adding then a tomato, cut up, 4 mushrooms 
sliced, a stalk of parsley, 1 of celery, a bay leaf, 
and a sprig of thyme, some cloves, and a little 
garlic. Season with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with sauce Espagnole. Cut a 6-pound 
3° 



458 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

— . ■■■ " U ■ 

fish into, say, 6 slices ; lay into the stewpan flat, 
and cook one hour over a very slow fire. When 
ready sprinkle chopped parsley over the whole. 
K desired, the fish may be left whole instead. 

Marinaded Herrings 

A German Recipe 
Put some white salted herrings into cold 
milk to soak for a couple of hours. Split thero 
open, take out the bones, cut each half-herring 
into 3 pieces, and divide the roes lengthwise. 
Put all in layers into a deep jar, and between 
each layer place a sprinkling of finely minced 
shallot, pounded cloves, and white pepper, with 
here and there a piece of bay leaf and a slice 
of fresh lemon with half the rind taken off. 
Place the roe with the herring, and the season- 
ing over the top layer, and cover the whole well 
with vinegar. Pour 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of 
salad-oil over the vinegar, and leave it until 
required. The pieces of herring should be 
drained when wanted, and served either with 
cheese or as a relish for salads, breakfast, 
luncheon, etc. They may be used in a couple 
of days, but will keep good for some time. 

Crayfish in Jelly 

Crayfish are something like lobsters, but 
smaller, and the flesh more delicate; indeed, 
they are more useful and delicious than any 



FISH 459 

other shellfish, and if' every housekeeper were 
to enquire for them two or three times at the 
Bshdealer's they would soon become plentiful. 
There are several kinds; those are considered 
the best which are reddish under the claws. To 
serve them in jelly, take a pint of fish for 
rather less than a pint of savory or aspic 
jelly. Put a little jelly at the bottom of a 
mould ; when it is cold, lay the crayfish upon it, 
and repeat this until the materials are finished, 
but care must be taken to let the jelly stiffen 
each time, or all will sink to the bottom, and also 
to put the :Ssh in with the i)ack downwards, or 
they will be wrong side up when turned out. 
Grarnish with parsley. This is a pretty dish. 
Time, thirty-six hours or more. Sufficient for 
a quart mould. 

Filleted Sole (a I'ltalienne) 

Fillet a large fresh sole in the usual way, and 
divide each fillet into halves by cutting it across. 
Season the pieces with pepper and salt, and rub 
them over with cut lemon. Eub 2 ounces of 
butter into 8 ounces of biscuit flour. Add a 
pinch of salt, and make a stiff paste by mixing 
with the flour the yolk of an egg which has been 
beaten up with the eighth of a pint of cold 
water. EoU this paste out very thin, and cut 
it into pieces of a size and shape that will en- 



460 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



tirely cover the filleted fisli. Wrap each piece 

01 fish in the paste, press the edges closely, and 

fry the fillets in hot fat over a slow fire till they 

are brightly browned. Drain them from the 

fat, and serve on a dish in a circle, with one 

fillet overlapping the other. Pour cold tartare 

sauce into the centre, and serve. Time to fry the 

fillets, about fifteen minutes. SuflBcient for 

four or five persons. 

Anchovies 

Anchovies are highly esteemed little seafish, 
obtained principally from the Mediterranean; 
j3ome small schools are found along the coast of 
Great Britain. The fish are attracted to the 
boats at night by means of lights, and are 
caught in nets. After the heads have been 
cut off and the bodies cleaned, they are put in 
brine and packed in barrels; for the market they 
are afterward put into bottles. The pickle of 
the best fish is a clear pink and without sedi- 
ment; the cheaper sorts are cloudy, and red 
only on being stirred, with a thick red sediment. 
The scales are removed from Dutch anchovies ; 
French anchovies are of larger size; both 
varieties are pale in color. 

Anchovies should be carefully cleaned, 
trimmed, and boned, then soak for fwo hours 
in cold water ; dry with a cloth, and wi th a silver 
or plated knife divide the backs. 



FISH 46J 

To serve, lay the halves on a dish, garnish 
with the white of a hard-hoiled egg, chopped 
fine, and pour over salad-oil. 

Boiled Haddock with Ess Sauce 

Shred 2 ounces of beef suet very finely, and 
mix with it 4 ounces of finely grated bread 
crumbs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
a teaspoonful of thyme, and a shallot, finely 
minced; add a little pepper and salt, and a 
grate or two of nutmeg, and work all together 
with a raw egg. Fill the haddock with this 
stuffing, sew it up with strong thread, truss it 
in the shape of the letter S, and boil it in salt 
and water. When done, take it up, drain, and 
serve garnished with parsley. Boil 2 eggs for 
seven minutes. When cold, powder the yolks, 
and mix them with half a pint of good white 
sauce. Add the whites, cut up into small dice, 
boil up once, and serve in a tureen. Time to 
boil a good-sized haddock, half an hour. A 
haddock weighing two pounds is sufficient for 
three or four persons. 

Dressed Whitebait 

Take the whitebait out of the water with the 
fingers, drain them, and throw them into a cloth 
upon which flour has been strewn. Shake them 
in the cloth to make the fiour adhere to them, 
then toss them in a large wide sieve to free 



462 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

them from the superfluous flour. If the fish 
stick together, separate them, but they will not 
do this if they are fresh. Have ready plenty 
of hot beef-fat (this is much better than 
lard, which is usually recommended), put the 
whitebait, a few at a time, into a wire bas- 
ket, plunge in the hot fat, and leave them for 
a minute or two. At the end of that time shake 
them to keep them from sticking together, and 
when they are slightly crisp without being 
browned they are done enough. Drain them 
from the fat while they are still in the basket, 
sprinkle a little salt upon them, pile them on a 
napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve very 
hot. Send quarters of lemon and brown bread 
and butter to table with them. Time to fry the 
whitebait, a few minutes. 

Pike Baked in Sour Cream (German) 

Clean a pike weighing 3 or 4 pounds, or, if 
preferred, take part of a larger fish and cut 
into slices free from skin and bone. Mince 2 
small onions very finely, and break up 2 bay 
leaves into little pieces. Butter a pie-dish 
thickly, and lay in it the slices of fish, with the 
onion and the bay leaves distributed amongst 
them. Season with salt and cayenne, and pour 
half a pint of sour cream over the fish. Bake 
in a moderate oven, and when three-fourths 



FISH 463 

done strew finely grated bread crumbs thickly- 
over it and return it to the oven to color. Lift 
the slices carefully into a hot dish, and make 
a gravy by mixing a little stock or water, and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, with the cream, 
etc., in the dish. Mix thoroughly. Pour the 
gravy round the fish, and serve very hot. Time 
to bake, about half an hour. Sufficient for four 
or five persons. 

Whiting aux Fines Herbes (English) 

Clean and skin the fish well and fasten it with 
its tail in its mouth. Place it on a dish, season 
with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over it a tea- 
spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder. Lay 
little pieces of butter here and there thickly 
upon it, cover with another dish, and bake in 
a moderately heated oven until done enough. 
Turn it once or twice that it may be equally 
cooked, and serve with a sauce poured over 
it. Time to bake the fish, twenty or thirty min- 
utes. One fish for each person. 

Broiled Brook Trout 

Split down the back and clean the trout. 
Brush over with olive oil or melted butter, dust 
with salt and pepper, and broil over hot coals. 

Or sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in olive 
oil or butter, then in cornmeal, and saute in oil 
or drippings. Garnish with slices of lemon 



464 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

and parsley or cress, and serve with, patsley 
sauce poured around them. 

Fried Perch 
Wash, scale, and clean the fish carefully, 
wipe them dry, and flour them lightly over ; then 
rub off the flour, dip them into beaten egg, aud 
afterwards into finely grated bread crumbs, and 
fry them in plenty of hot fat, until they are 
nicely browned. Drain them for a few minutes 
on an inverted sieve, serve on a hot dish, and 
garnish with parsley. Shrimp sauce, a.nchovy 
sauce, or plain white sauce are fine with perch. 
Time to fry varies with size. 

Fried Catfish 

Clean, wipe dry, and cut the fish in squares 
two or three inches across and about an inch 
thick. Beat 2 eggs very light, season with salt 
and pepper and a spoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce. Dip the fish in seasoned egg, then roll 
in cracker crumbs or cornmeal, and fry in one- 
half each lard and beef drippings until well 
browned. Grarnish with sliced lemon and pars- 
ley or celery tops. 

Baked Pickerel 

Clean and wash a large fine pickerel. Lay it 
on the grating of your baking-pan, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, butter well, and dredge 
with flour. 



FISH 465 

Place in a hot oven, and wlien the flour begins 
to brown, baste with butter, water, and lemon 
juice. 

Allow twelve minutes to each pound of fish. 
Serve with oyster sauce. 

Boned Baked Pickerel 

Remove the backbone and all the other bones 
which you can extract without tearing the fish 
too much. Lay in olive oil and lemon juice for 
an hour. 

Place very thin slices of salt pork on the 
grating of the bakepan, lay the fish, skin side 
downward, on top of the salt pork, and wash 
with melted. butter. Cover the pan, bake forty 
minutes, basting it once. Serve with Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Baked Carp 

Have the fish opened at the gills and the in- 
testines drawn out through the opening. Wash 
the flesh with vinegar and let it stand for fifteen 
minutes. Fill the fish with.a bre^d stuffing, and 
sew the head down firmly. Brush the fish all 
over with an egg, cover it thickly with bread 
crumbs and a few lumps of butter. Put 2 
chopped onions and a bunch of parsley in the 
pan, and a cup of water mixed with 1 teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce. 

Bake for an hour in a moderate oven, basting 



466 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

occasionally. When tlie fish is done, place it 
on a heated platter and garnish with slices of 
lemon. Add enough water to the gravy in the 
pan to make a half pint. Thicken with a table- 
spoonful of flour rubbed into 1 of butter. Cook 
for a moment, strain, add the juice of a lemon, 
and pepper and salt to taste. Serve in a gravy- 
boat. 

Sturgeon , 

2 pounds of sturgeon; 1 pint of milk; 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 1 
tablespoonful of butter; 1 saltspoonful of pep- 
per. 

Cut the fish iato small squares, put them in 
a stewing-pan with 2 quarts of boiling water; 
simmer for fifteen minutes, drain the water off. 
Add the butter, salt, and pepper. Moisten the 
flour with a little of the milk; add the rest and 
pour over the sturgeon, then let it come to a 
boil and serve. Sturgeon may be baked, broiled, 
or panned, but it always must be parboiled first. 

How to Dress Terrapin 

Terrapin, like lobster, should be alive. First 
wash it iu a large pan of water, and drop it, 
head downward, into a kettle containing plenty 
of rapidly boiling water. Boil five or ten miu- 
utes; take it out and, with a damp cloth, rub 
off the white skin from the head and feet. Put 



FISH 467 

it again over the fire and cover with, freshly 
boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt to each 
quart. Boil slowly until tender and the shells 
begin to fall away from the sides ; it will some- 
times take not more than twenty minutes, and 
it often takes forty or forty-five minutes. 

When the shells can be separated take the 
terrapin from the water, let it cool, then cut off 
the nails, break the shell on the flat side, and 
remove the meat. Take out the insides, care- 
fully separate the liver from the gall-bag, and 
put it aside, throwing away the gall, the inside 
muscle and tail, the head, entrails, and bladder. 

Divide the legs at the joints, and cut into 
small pieces. Cut the liver into small pieces 
and put this, with the eggs and meat, in a sauce- 
pan. This is all of the terrapin that is used. 
Pour over it boiUng water enough to nearly 
cover, add salt and a little cayenne, and cook 
ten minutes. It is then ready to serve with 
sauces, or for soups, etc. 

If the terrapin has no eggs, egg balls may 
be made and substituted. 

Stewed Terrapin 

Drop into boiling water and cook until tlie 
heads and feet can be removed. Not quite an 
hour should be sufl&cient for this. When they 
get cold, remove the shells, and very carefully 



468 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

extract the heart and entrails, being careful not 
to break the gall-bag. Cut the head, tail, and 
feet off, and cut the meat into small pieces. 
Put into a saucepan with enough water to 
cover, and simmer fifteen minutes. 

Powder the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs and 
work in 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. lu another 
vessel heat a cupful of cream with a pinch of 
soda, and work slowly into the egg and butter. 
Season with salt and cayenne pepper, and mix 
slowly with the hot terrapin. Cook one minute, 
add a glass of sherry, and pour out. 

When done, put the fish on a platter, and pour 
half the fish stock over it; the remainder may 
be put in a sauce-boat. This may be served 
with any fish sauce preferred. 

Fricasseed Snapping Turtle 

Clean the turtle by throwing hipa into boiling 
water. Cut into small dice, sprinkle with pep- 
per, salt, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, 
onion juice, and a dash of kitchen bouquet. Put 
into a tightly covered saucepan with enough 
water to cover, and simmer gently for thirty 
minutes. Then add a tablespoonful of browned 
flour rubbed into a tablespoonful of butter. 
When nicely blended togetheradd a glass of 
sherry and the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Let 
all come to a boil, then remove from the fire, 
and turn out into a deep dish. 



nSH 469 

Lobster & la Newburg 

Remove a boiled lobster from the sbell and 
slice the meat about one-half inch thick, or cut 
into small pieces. Put in chafing-dish with a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, a little 
cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon juice; add 1 
cup cream mixed smooth with 1 teaspoonful 
flour or the yolk of 3 eggs, and stir constantly 
over a slow fire, but do not boil. Serve in a 
hot dish. 

Lobster 

The whole of the lobster is good except the 
stomach, gills, and intestines. If one wants to 
use fresh lobster and does not understand how 
to open and separate one, a good way is to go 
to one's marketman and get instructions. The 
shell may be so broken that it can be used for 
serving the lobster meat. 

Serving plain is the simplest, and some 
prefer it with only salt, pepper, and vinegar 
or lemon juice as a dressing, with, perhaps, 
Worcestershire and a little oil. 

Long cooking toughens the lobster, therefore, 
in all ways of preparing it, cook only until the 
meat is thoroughly heated. 

Lobster Stewed in Cream 

Cut the lobster in small pieces. Put in a 
saucepan half a cup of cream (or miik with a 



470 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FBH 

teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in butter 
added). Let this boil up. Season with salt 
and pepper, add a tablespoonful of butter, put 
in the lobster, and bring to a boil. Serve very 
hot, with toasted butter-thin crackers. 

Creamed Lobster on Toast 

Make a rich cream sauce well seasoned with 
cayenne. Dice the lobster, squeeze a little 
lemon juice over, mix, and let it stand a few 
minutes. Add it to the hot sauce, let it simmer, 
not boil, five minutes, and serve on a hot platter 
on rounds of buttered toast. To a pint of diced 
lobster allow a pint of sauce. 

Devilled Lobster 

Mince the lobster meat, mix with sufficient 
cream sauce to moisten, season with salt, 
cayenne, onion juice, Worcestershire sauce, 
mustard, and a very little minced parsley ; add 
the yolk of 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs mashed 
or minced fine. Serve hot with thin crackers, 
or cold for sandwiches, canapes, or as a lunch 
dish on crisp leaves of lettuce. 

• Boiled Soft-shell Crabs 

Lift the projecting ' ' wings ' ' of the upper 
shell and remove the soft fins which lie under 
the sides of the back shell, and remove the flap 
or apron on the under shell. Wash and cook 



FISH 47J 

quickly before the crabs die. Brush with butter, 
and sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper. 
Broil ten minutes over hot coals, turning twice 
to broil both sides. Serve upon slices of but- 
tered toast. 

Fried Soft-shell Crabs 

Prepare the crabs as directed above. Sprinkle 
with' salt and cayenne pepper, roll them in 
beaten egg, then in fine bread crumbs, again in 
egg and in the crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat. 
Garnish with watercress and thin slices of 
lemon. 

Devilled Crabs 

Mix 2 cans of crabs with 1 cupful of cream, 
2 tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a cupful 
of rolled cracker crumbs, a wineglassful of 
sherry, the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, a little 
nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Bake in 
shells, sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and place 
a small piece of butter on each. 

Baked Crabs 

Break the claws off boiled crabs, open shells, 
and remove the spongy fingers and stomach. 
Pick the fish out, and cut into small pieces. 
Mix a little rich gravy with it, or cream, if you 
have it; add some curry paste and bread 



472 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FBH 

crumbs; salt and pepper to taste. Fill the 
shells, and bake. 

Scallops and Eggs 

1 pint scallops ; 5 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls but- 
ter; 1 teaspoonful parsley; salt and pepper. 

Simmer the scallops for ten or fifteen min- 
utes in slightly salted water. Pour off the 
water and cover quickly with cold. Pour this 
off and break the scallops in two. 

Heat the butter in a frying-pan, put in the 
scallops, and stir about gently until they begin 
to color; break in the eggs, shake in salt and 
pepper, and stir all briskly until the eggs are 
cooked. Have ready a hot platter with squares 
of buttered toast. Pour the scallops over, 
sprinkle with a little finely minced parsley, and 
garnish the edge of the platter with a few 
sprigs of parsley, and serve at once. 

Shrimps 

Shrimps are similar to lobster, and any of 
the recipes given for lobster may be used for 
shrimp. If they are to be stewed leave them 
whole. For scalloping, devilling, etc., cut fine 
and follow directions for lobster. 

An agreeable addition to scalloped shrimp is 
a tomato sauce, made as for fish, spread over 
each layer of shrimp. Cover all with buttered 
crumbs, and bake till brown. 



FISH 473 

Shrimp and Mushrooms 

Cut in small pieces, and saute in butter 1 cup 
of mushrooms. Heat the same amount of 
shrimp in i^ cup of cream. "When the cream 
boils, season with salt and white pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce; add the 
sauted mushrooms. Mix well, and serve hot. 

Frogs' Legs 
The hind-legs only are used for cooking. 
Remove the skin, and wipe the bone end, or, if 
bought already skinned, wash off in cold water, 
and wipe with a towel. They may be stewed, 
fried, or broiled, and are most tender and de- 
licious. 

Fried 

Dip the legs in seasoned crumbs, then in egg, 
and in crumbs again ; put them in a f rying- 
basket, and fry in hot fat two or three minutes. 
Serve on a hot platter with a mound of green 
peas, boiled rice, or macaroni baked in a mould 
and turned out in the centre of the platter. 

OYSTERS AND SHELLFISH 
Oysters on the Half-Shell 

Wash off the shells of as many Blue Points as 

are needed, open them, and loosen the oysters 

from the under shell, removing the upper shell. 

Serve on oyster plates, or on, shallow soup- 

31 



474 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

plates, filled with cracked or shaved ice. Cut 
lemons in quarters, and serve on each plate 
with the oysters. Serve with them salt, pep- 
per, Worcestershire, Tabasco,, or horseradish 
sauce. 

Stewed Oysters 
Drain a quart of fine oysters, and carefully 
remove all bits of shells. Strain the liquor, 
and put it in a saucepan. Bring it to a boil, 
and skim. Add a pint of hot milk, a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and when at the boiling point add 
the oysters, a little pepper, and more salt if 
necessary. Cook only until the oysters begin 
to curl. The fire should be hot enough to cook 
them quickly, but care must be taken that they 
do not scorch after the milk is added. Serve 
small, crisp crackers and pickled gherkins as 
an accompaniment. 

Creamed Oysters 

Drain the liquor thoroughly from a quart of 
fine oysters. Strain and heat the liquor in a 
saucepan, skimming off all the scum that rises 
as it comes to a boil. Put the oysters in the 
liquor with a piece of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, and when thoroughly hot, add a pint of 
rich, hot cream. Cook until the oysters curl; 
add salt and pepper, and serve at once. A des- 
sertspoonful of flour, worked smooth in a little 



FISH 475 

of the cold cream, may be added to the cream 
while it is heating in a double boiler. Serve 
with squares of hot buttered toast, or serve 
poured over slices of buttered toast. 

Broiled Oysters, in the Sliell (or on tlie Half- 
Shell) 

•Wash off the outside of the shells and dry 

them. Open and remove the upper shell, lay 

them on a broiler and broil over a clear, hot 

fire, or under a gas flame. As soon as done put 

small bits of butter on each one, dust with a 

little salt and pepper, and serve in the shells 

with quarters of lemon. 

To Broil without Opening 

Wash the shells, lay them on a broiler, and 

put them directly on a bed of hot coals. As 

soon as the shells pop open they are done. 

Serve melted butter and lemon juice with them. 

Oyster Cocktail 

Select fine oysters of uniform size. Have 
them thoroughly chilled, having first taken care 
that they are free from bits of shell. Pour 
over them a dressing made of 1 tablespoonful 
each tomato catsup, lemon juice, Worcester- 
shire sauce, and grated horseradish (or horse- 
radish vinegar). Add a few drops of Tabasco 
sauce, a little salt, a dash of cayenne. Let the 
oysters stand in this mixture until very cold, 



476 SOUPS, CHOmSBRS, AND FISH 

and serve in small, shallow glasses, or get fancy 
shells from a caterer to serve in, 
. Another way is to chop the oysters slightly, 
in which case they need not be as large or of 
uniform size. Mix with the dressing and serve 
in cocktail glasses, or fancy baskets of grape- 
fruit shells, tomato cups, or any other way that 
fancy dictates. 

Broiled Oysters on Toast 

Select large fine oysters. Strain off the 
liquor and dry on a napkin. Butter the broiler 
and lay the oysters on it. Dust them with salt 
and pepper, and broil over a hot fire, turning 
the broiler so that both sides of the oyster shall 
be cooked. Have ready on a hot platter squares 
or rounds of buttered toast; place one or two 
oysters on each piece, put a bit of butter on 
top, squeeze a few drops, of lemon juice over, 
and serve at once, garnished with cress. 

The cooking and serving must be done 
quickly, with no loss of time for cooling. 

Fried Oysters 

Drain, pick them over, dust with salt and 
pepper, roll in cracker crumbs, then in egg, in 
cracker crumbs again, and saute in hot butter 
until both sides are a golden brown. 

Or fry in deep, hot fat after preparing as 
above. 



FISH 477 

Old Virginia Fried Oysters 

Mate a batter of 4 tablespoonfuls of sifted 
flour, 1 tablespoonful of olive oil or melted but- 
ter, 2 well-beaten whites of eggs, % teaspoonful 
salt, and warm water enough to make a batter 
that will drop easily. Sprinkle the oysters 
lightly with salt and white pepper or paprika. 
Dip in the batter, and fry to a golden brown. 
Drain, and serve on a hot pld,tter with a napkin 
under them, and pass slices of lemon with them. 

Oysters and Mushrooms 

A solid pint or 1 dozen medium-sized oysters ; 
1 cup mushrooms cut in rather small pieces ; 2 
tablespoonfuls butter ; a little salt, pepper, and 
a dash of nutmeg; half a glassful port wine or 
madeira. 

Saute the mushrooms in the butter. Boil 
and skim the liquor from the oysters, put in 
the oysters with the salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 
and cook until they are nearly done. Add the 
sauted mushrooms and cook for a few minutes 
longer, then add the wine ; let all get thoroughly 
hot, and serve at once. The wine may be 
omitted and a tablespoonful of lemon juice 
added. 

For a variety these may be served in cups of 
rolls or pastry. Take rolls that are baked in 
round or long oval shape, cut off the bottom 



478 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND HSH 



crust, scoop out tlie inside, brush, the sides with 
butter, and crisp them in the oven. FUl these 
with the oysters and mushrooms. Serve on a 
hot platter with the sauce poured over them. 
Two tablespoonfuls of hot cream may be added 
to the sauce, instead of wine. 

Or make shells of good pastry, baked in little 
patty-pajQS. These may be made the day be- 
forehand and put in the oven for a few minutes 
to get hot, while the oysters are being prepared. 
A good lunch dish. 

Scalloped Oysters 

1 pint solid oysters ; 1 large cupful bread or 
cracker crumbs ; Va cup butter ; 1 cup milk ; salt 
and pepper. 

Drain and carefully pick over the oysters to 
free them from any bits of shell. Mix the 
crumbs with the melted butter. (Bread crumbs 
are preferable to cracker, being less solid when 
baked.) Scald and skiin the oyster liquor, and 
add the hot milk. 

Into a well-buttered baking-dish put a thin 
layer of the buttered crumbs, next a layer of 
oysters; season with salt and pepper, cover 
with a layer of crumbs, and pour over some of 
the hot oyster liquor and milk. Put in another 
layer of oysters and seasoning, then cover with. 
the remaining crumbs, having the top layer of 



FISH 479 

crumbs rather thicker than the other. Add the 
rest of the hot liquor, dot the top with bits of 
butter, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

A very little Worcestershire sauce or lemon 
juice may be added to the seasoning if liked. 

Oysters "Roast" in Their Own Liquor 

Put the oysters in a saucepan and bring to a 
quick boil. As soon as they get plump they are 
cooked enough for most connoisseurs, but some 
like them cooked until the gills are well curled 
or crimped. As soon. as done season with salt, 
pepper, butter, and a squeeze of lemon juice. 
This is a " plain roast." Served on buttered 
toast, with the liquor poured over, it is a 
" fancy roast." 

Clam Fritters 

Beat 2 eggs light, sift in i/^ cupful of flour, 
add % cupful of milk; thus forming a batter. 
Chop up 12 good-sized clams in chopping-bowl. 
Add 1 teaspoonful minced parsley, % tea- 
spoonful salt, a da^h of pepper ; add to the bat- 
ter. If not of sufficient consistency to drop into 
hot fat, add a little more flour. Fry crisp, 
either in deep fat, or saute in frying-pan. 
Drain, and serve. 

Baked Soft Clams 

Place 1 dozen large soft clams in baking- 
pan, so that the juices will be retained in the 



480 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND HSH 

lower shell. Bake until clam opens, remove 
the upper shell carefully, and place on each 
clam a slice of crisp bacon. Serve in lower 
shell. 

Jambalaya 
East Indian Recipe 
Fry ham, as for gumbo, with garlic, onion, 
and pepper; add 3 cupfuls of tomatoes as be- 
fore, and strain. Have 1 cupful of rice, pre- 
viously soaked in warm water. Put the rice 
into the hot tomato, and add herbs to taste. 
Keep the pot covered, and boil slowly until the 
rice is well cooked. When the rice is ready to ' 
serve, oysters may be lightly pressed into the 
rice. Put into a baking-dish, and set into the 
oven until the oysters curl. Clams or shrimps 
may be used instead of .oysters. 

Pigs in Blankets 

Season the desired nuinber of large oysters 
with salt and pepper. "Wrap each in a slice pf 
best bacon and/fasten with wooden toothpicks. 
Fry until bacon is crisp. Serve on toast gar^ 
nished with parsley. 

Snails, Edible 

The edible snail of the south of Europe is 
said to have been introduced into England from 
the Continent in the seventeenth century. This, 



FISH 48J 

however, is very doubtful. It has a shell about 
two inches in diameter, and two inches in 
height, whitish or pale tawny, with four dark 
bands, often not very distinct. By the ancient 
Eomans it was much esteemed as an article of 
food. They fattened their snails in enclosures 
made for the purpose, and fed them daintily 
on meal and boiled wine. It is still in much 
esteem for the table in parts of Europe,- and 
may be had during several weeks of the year 
in the United States, being imported, as the 
season is short. During this time they may 
be had at leading hotels, but for only a week 
or two. The common garden snail would prob- 
ably be as good eating, though not so large, and 
if cultivated as in Europe. 

(No. 2) 

Take fine Bourgogne snails ; disgorge them 
well by salt for two or three days, wash several 
times in cold water, strain, and put them to 
stew, covering with water; add a bouquet, 
cloves and whole pepper tied in a cloth, and 
enough salt; cook them until they fall from 
their shells, and empty, and clip the tails; next 
clean shells ■ thoroughly. Mix butter, shallots, 
parsley, and chervil together, chopping very 
fine ; put it in bowl with equal quantity of fresh 
bread crumbs, and a small glass of white wine. 



482 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Season this with salt and pepper, and knead 
thoroughly. Put a little of this mixture into 
each shell, put back the snails, and place an- 
other layer of the mixture on top. Put into the 
oven until brown, not over four minutes, and 
serve on folded napkin. 



SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEATS 

The making of perfect sauces and serving 
them with the proper fish, game, meat, or des- 
sert is one of the fine arts. A dish may be well, 
even perfectly, cooked, and if not spoiled, at 
least be very much depreciated by the lack of 
a well-seasoned and perfectly blended sauce, 
while an otherwise flat or flavorless article of 
food may be made " fit for the gods " by the 
addition of a sauce that is a delight to the 
palate. 

Brown sauces have for a basis brown stock 
and browned butter and flour, and may be col- 
ored to just the desired shade by the addition 
of caramel or roux. 

White sauces are made with white stock, or a 
cream sauce, or with plain drawn butter, with 
the addition of whatever ingredients are ap- 
propriate to the food with which the sauce is 
to be served. 

So many of the sauces need to be kept hot, 
but not boiling, while some of the ingredients 
are prepared to be added last, that it is a good 
plan to keep one of the . small-sized double 
boilers for this purpose. 

483 



484 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

SAUCES FOR FISH 
Court-Bouillon (for Boiling Fish) 

In cooking some of the coarser kinds of fish, 
or those that are not especially delicate in 
flavor, they are improved by boiling in what the 
French - call a ' ' court-bouillon, ' ' made with 
highly flavored vegetables and sweet herbs, 
combined with lemon juice or wine, and highly 
spiced. 

Fish cooked in this preparation is deliciously 
flavored. Wine is not necessary, and is only 
used where there is an abundance for cooking 
purposes. 

Place in the bottom of the fish-kettle a thick 
layer of sliced carrots and onions, with a sliced 
lemon, parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, a few whole 
peppers, and 3 or 4 whole cloves. 

Lay the fish on the top of this and cover with 
one-half cold water and one-half white wine, or 
lemon juice or vinegar. 

Put the kettle over the fire and let it heat 
rather slowly. As soon as it boils, the fish 
should be sufficiently cooked. 

Court-bouillon may be prepared the day be- 
forehand, as' the fish must always be put into 
it while cold. If brought to a boil and allowed 
to cool, the flavor 'of the herbs will be stronger 
than if made fresh. It may also be set aside 



SAUCES 485 

and kept for use again, but it must be reheated 
every few days. 

Tartare Sauce for Broiled Fish (Mrs. Lincoln) 

1 tablespoonful vinegar ; 1 teaspoonful lemon 
.iuice; 1 saltspoonful salt; Vg cupful butter; 1 
tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. 

Mix vinegar, lemon juice, salt, and Worces- 
tershire sauce in a small bowl, and heat over 
hot water. Brown the butter in an omelet pan, 
and strain into the other mixture. To be served 
hot. 

Tomato Sauce 

% cupful tomato pulp, strained smooth; % 
cupful finely chopped capers, gherkins, olives, 
and onion; 1 teaspoonful made mustard; 1 
tablespoonful vinegar; 1 teaspoonful sugar; 
salt to taste; a dash of cayenne. 

Mix all together, bring to boiling point, stir- 
ring briskly while it is heating, and serve very 
hot ; poured over or around the fish. 

Lobster Sauce 

Make a Hollandaise as for meat and a cupful 
of finely chopped lobster meat, rub the coral to 
a paste with a tablespoonful of melted butter, a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, one or two drops 
of Tabasco sauce, and a half teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce. Mix thoroughly with 
the Hollandaise while hot. 



486 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



Hollandaise Sauce 

Make a brown Hollandaise sanee, the same as 
for meat or vegetables; add chopped onion or 
a few drops of onion juice, chopped parsley, 
olives, gherkins, or hot mixed pickles to taste. 

Piquant Sauce 

1 cupful good clear stock; I/2 tablespoonful 
minced onion or shallots ; 2 tablespoonfuls but- 
ter: 1 tablespoonful flour; 1/2 teaspoonful 
sugar; % teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce; 

1 tablespoonful chopped capers; 1 tablespoon- 
ful cucumber pickles, chopped or sliced thin; 

2 tablespoonfuls tarragon or wine vinegar; a 
dash of cayenne ; i/^ teaspoonful salt. 

Heat the butter in a pan and add the flour. 
Stir until very smooth, and let it cook until 
brown. Gradually add the stock, salt and pep- 
per, and let it come to a boil, and simmer ten 
minutes. 

Put the vinegar, onion, and sugar in a pan 
over a hot fire, and simmer five minutes. Add 
this and pickles, capers, and Worcestershire 
sauce to the hot stock ; then let it boil up, and 
serve it very hot with either fish, meat, or 
game. 

This is one of the sauces that may have ex- 
tract of beef substituted for the stock, as it 
(Should be clear. Use the extract in the pro- 



SAUCES 487 

portion of % teaspoonful of extract dissolved 
in 1 cupful-boiling water. 

Serve with fried or broiled fish, or roast or 
boiled meats. 

A Simple Sauce for Steamed or Boiled Fish 

To 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter add 3 

hard-boiled eggs, chopped. Season with a 

tablespoonful of very finely minced parsley, 

half a teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. 

Have it very hot and well mixed, and pour over 

the fish. 

India Sauce 

1 cupful white sauce; 1 tablespoonful curry 
powder; 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped 
pickles ; 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar or 
the vinegar from the pickles. 

Let all simmer together for five minutes or 
until thoroughly heated and blended. 

Sauce Allemande 

1 pint white stock ; 6 mushrooms ; yolks of 3 
eggs; juice of % a lemon, and a little strip of 
the rind; 1 saltspoonful salt; 1 teaspoonful 
flour ; 1 teaspoonful minced parsley ; 1 spoonful 
butter. 

Put the stock into a saucepan with the mush- 
rooms cut small, and the salt, lemon-peel, and 
parsley. Let it come to a boil and simmer 
8ilowly for an hour. Thicken with the flour, 



488 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

boil a few minutes, and strain. Add tlie well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs, put it back on the fire, 
a»d stir constantly until very hot. It must not 
boil again after the eggs are added, or it will 
be spoiled. Take frpm the fire and add the but- 
ter and lemon juice, stirring until well blended. 

Serve with either fish, meat, or vegetables- 
Sauce Supreme 

1 cupful white stock (made with chicken and 
veal) ; 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
cress, and tarragon leaves, equal parts ; 1 table- 
spoonful of lemon juice; white roux sufficient 
to thicken. 

Put the stock in a saucepan and add the roux, 
stirring until it is thick. Put the herbs into 
boiling water, let them stand two or three min- 
utes, drain on a towel, and mince them fine. 
Stir them into the stock ; add a little white pep- 
per and salt if needed. When very hot and 
ready to serve, add the strained lemon juice. 
Pour over fish or meat. 

Lobster Sauce 

1/2 cupful finely minced lobster meat and the 
coral; 1 cupful drawn butter sauce; % table- 
spoonful butter ; juice of half a lemon ; a dash 
of paprika. 

Eub the coral of the lobster to a paste with 
the butter, add the minced lobster, lemon juice, 



SAUCES 489 

and paprika. Mix with the hot drawn butter 
sauce. Let it boil up, and serve with the fish. 

Sardine Sauce 

Mash smooth 5 large sardines that have been 
skinned and, boned, and add to II/2 cupfuls of 
mayonnaise; serve with cold fish. 

Tomato Tartare 

To 1% cupfuls tartare sauce add 3 table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, or cooked tomato 
pulp. Serve cold. 

Shrimp 

Take 1 pint white sauce and add to it 1 cupful 
of chopped shrimp, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
a dash of paprika, and a drop or two of Ta- 
basco. 

Cream 

To % cupful of mayonnaise add 1 tablespoon- 
ful vinegar and 1 teaBpooniul English inustard, 
2 tablespoonfule fresh grated horseradish, a 
pinch of salt, and a dash of cayenne. Add to 
this, stirring continuously, 1 cupful whipped 
cream. Serve very cold T^th cold fish. 

Pepper 

Chop 2 sweet green peppers, removing the 
seeds; mix together % cupful each of vinegar 
and sugar, 1 teaspoonful celery seed, and y^ 
32 



490 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

teaspoonful salt; pour over minced peppers, 
and serve. 

Dressing for Baked Fish 

1 cupful bread crumbs ; 14 cupful melted but- 
ter; 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, capers, 
pickles, and olives; % teaspoonful minced 
onion; 1 teaspoonful lemon juice or vinegar; 
salt and pepper and Worcestershire may be 
added if so desired. 

Ess Sauce 

To white sauce add 1 hard-boiled egg, 
chopped fine,' and salt and pepper to taste. 
Capers are sometimes added. 

Shad-Roe Sauce 

Cook 1 shad-roe in salted water, to which a 
teaspoonful of vinegar has been added, for 
twenty minutes. Then cool ; crumb up and add 
to brown sauce (see Brown Sauce) with 1 tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

Cheese Sauce 

Place in a saucepan the following ingredi- 
ents, stirring continuously: 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and 2 of corn starch. After 
stirring this together over the fire, add 1 cup 
of grated cheese, i/^ teaspoonful mustard, 14 
teaspoonful paprika, a dash of red pepper, 14 



SAUCES 491 

teaspoonful of salt, and % teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce. Cook thoroughly, draw 
to one side ; stir in li/^ eupfuls of milk that have 
been heated. Then add 1 lightly beaten egg. 
The sauce must not be allowed tp boil after the 
addition of the milk and egg. Serve very hot. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Cucumber, a plant that seems to be most 
adaptable to fish, can be treated as follows : 
Mince 1 cucumber, add to it 1 tablespoonful of 
vinegar and a pinch of salt. Stir this into Hol- 
landaise sauce (see HoUandaise Sauce), and 
serve. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT 

Drawn Butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; 3 tablespoonfuls of 
cold butter; 1 cupful of water; seasoning. 

Take V3 of the butter and melt it in a sauce- 
pan over the fire. As soon as it is melted, add 
the flour and stir until it bubbles. Care must 
be taken that it does not brown. The water is 
then gradually stirred in until the sauce boils. 
Add pepper and salt to taste. Remove from 
the fire, and stir in the rest of the butter, which 
has been broken into small pieces. If neces- 
sary, strain. Serve while very hot. 



492 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



Drawn Butter 

1 pint hot water ; Vg cupful butter ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour ; % teaspoonful salt ; %, salt- 
spoonful white pepper. Proceed as above. 

Vinaigrette Sauce 

To % cupful of plain or tarragon vinegar add 
1/2 teaspoonful of salt, i/4 teaspoonful paprika, a 
dash of cayenne and of white pepper. 

Mince 1 tablespoonfuleach of pickle^, chives, 
parsley, green pepper; stir into the vinegar, 
then add slowly % cupful of olive oil. 

Velout6 

To 1 cupful of white stock add % cupful of 
cream, and heat. 

Cook 3 tablespoonfuls of flour in 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter; add the stock slowly, 
season with % teaspoonful salt, a little grated 
nutmeg, a dagh of cayenne, a sprig of parsley — 
if mushrooms are on hand, add a few, to give 
flavor. Simmer one hour, strain, and serve. 

Velout^ with Claret 

Make as for veloute sauce, only substituting 
claret instead of cream, and the lightly beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs to make the sauce creamy. 

Horseradish Sauce (Hot) 

To 1 cupful of brown sauce add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of grated horseradish that has stood for 



SAUCES 493 

an hour in 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of cracker crumbs or fine bread crumbs, 1 tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, and a half saltspoonful of pepper. Mix 
and heat in a double boiler. Just before serving 
beat in half a cup of whipped or plain cream. 
Double the amount of horseradish if a very 
sharp sauce is wanted. Serve with beef. 

White Sauce 

1 cupful white stock; % cupful cream; 2 
tablespoonfuls butter; 2 tablespoonfuls flour; 
% saltspoonful salt ; a dash of white pepper. 

Cook the flour and butter together until very 
smooth and bubbling, but taking care that it 
does not become colored. Have the stock and 
cream hot, and add it, a little at a time, to the 
bitter and flour. Beat until smooth, and let it 
come to a boil. Strain, and serve. 

Brown Sauce 

1 cupful stock; salt and pepper; 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter ; 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Cook the flour and butter together until 
brown, stirring briskly; then add the stock, a 
spoonful at a time, stirring or beating con- 
stantly to prevent its lumping. As soon as it 
has boiled strain, and serve with meat or vege- 
tables. Used as a basis, with the addition of 



494 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

some ingredients from which the sauce takes its 
name, this may be the principal part of several 
meat or fish sauces. If not dark enough, add 
a little dark roux until it is the desired colon 

Anchovy Sauce 

1 cup broth or stock; 4 anchovies; 1 table- 
spoonful butter; 1 teaspoonful capers. 

Wash and dry the anchovies, remove the 
bones, and cut up fine. Dredge them lightly 
with flour, and fry them five minutes in the but- 
ter without browning. Add the broth or stock, 
let it simmer fifteen minutes; then add the 
crushed capers, and more salt and pepper, if 
needed. Serve very hot with roast or boiled 
beef. 

Sauce Piquante for Roast Beef 

To a cup of -brown sauce add a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoonful of 
chopped mustard pickles, and a tablespoonful 
of chopped capers. Serve hot. 

Orange Sauce (Game) 

Boil 1 orange peel cut into strips in 1 cupful 
of water until tender, add the juice of 2 oranges. 
Cook together 2 tablespopnfuls of butter and 
3 of flour. Add gradually % cupful of white 
stock seasoned with I/2 tablespoonful of made 
mustard, 14 tablespoonful salt, a dash of 



SAUCES 495 

cayenne, Vs cupful of red wine, and 4 table- 
spoonfuls of currant jelly. Boil thoroughly 
and add the oranges and the liquids ; strain, and 

serve. 

Bechamel Sauce 

For a simple bechamel use % strong white 

stock and % thick sweet cream. Season with 

salt and white pepper and a very little nutmeg 

. or mace. Serve with vegetables. 

Madeira Sauce 

To 1 cupful of brown sauce add 1 tablespoon- 
ful each of minced ham and celery; season with 
1/4 teaspoonful each of kitchen bouquet and 
paprika. Simmer for half an hour, then add 
% cupful madeira wine. 

Mustard 

Brown 1 tablespoonful of butter, add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stir smooth ; then add 1 cup 
of beef stock. Let simmer. 

To 1 tablespoonful of French or celery mus- 
tard add 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 of sugar, 
and 1 of made mustard, % teaspoonful of salt, 
14 teaspoonful of paprika. Now add the above 
into the stock, and stir until smooth. 

Maitre d'Hdtel Butter 

1 heaping tablespoonful of butter; 1 table- 
spoonful chopped parsley; 1 tablespoonful 



496 S OUPS> CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

lemon juice; % teaspoon salt; % saltspoon 
pepper. 

Rub the butter to a cream, add the lemon 
juice, parsley, salt, and pepper; stirring con- 
stantly until smooth. Serve with broiled fish 
or beefsteak, spread over the top. 

Mint Sauce for Young Lamb 

Take a few sprigs of fresh mint, wash well, 
and chop fine. A good way to chop mint and 
parsley fine is to keep a pair of good-sized scis- 
sors for the purpose. It is easier and quicker 
than chopping. By gathering the leaves closely 
with one hand it is easy to clip the leaves in 
bits. Put the mint in the sauce-boat, add 4 
tablespoonfuls of wine vinegar, 1 of sugar, and 
4 tablespoonfuls of cold water. It should be 
made an hour or two before serving. 

Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Chicken 

Mash 1 cupful of boiled chestnuts and stir 
into 1% cupfuls of hot white stock ; season with 
1 teaspoonful of catsup, % teaspoonful salt, 14 
teaspoonful paprika, 1 tablespoonful butter. 
Cook until smooth and of the proper consist- 
ency. 

Espagnole Sauce 

Heat 2 cups veal stock into which have been 
put 1/2 l^ay leaf, a blade of mace, and a couple 
of cloves. Cook together 2 tablespoonfuls of 



SAUCES 497 

butter and 3 of flour ; then stir in heated stock. 
Mince 1 tablespoonful each of ham, onion, cel- 
ery, carrot, parsley ; season with i/4 teaspoonf ul 
salt, and % teaspoonful paprika; then add to 
the stock and simmer gently for one hour; 
strain, and serve very hot. 

Chive Sauce 

To 1 cupful brown sauce add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of minced chives. 

Mushroom Sauce 

To 1 cupful of brown sauce add y^ cupful 
mushrooms, either canned or fresh, cut into 
small pieces. Roll the mushrooms in flour an(3 
saute in butter. Mix them with the sauce, bring 
to a boil, and add a tablespoonful of lemon juice 
or half a wineglass of sherry or port wine. 
Serve with roast beef or steak. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

To 1 cupful of clear brown sauce add %, cup- 
ful of currant jelly. Melt the jelly before add- 
ing it to the sauce, then heat until thoroughly 
blended. Serve hot with mutton. 

Olive Sauce 

To 1 pint of brown sauce add a teaspoonful 
of minced onions and 12 large olives chopped 
and cooked in % cup of water ; boil up, add a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, and serve hot. 



498 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Champagne Sauce for Ham 

To % cupful brown sauce add 1 cupful of 
American champagne or white wine, a tea- 
spoonful sugar, 3 cloves. Bring to a boil, and 
strain. 

Chicken Sauce for Sweetbread 

Cut into dish. 1 cupful of chicken. Season 
with % teaspoonful salt and a dash of cayenne, 

1 teaspoonful parsley. Place in a saucepan 1 
tablespoonful of butter and 1 of flour; stir to- 
gether and cook thoroughly. Add the lightly 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs to 1 cupful of cream, and 
stir into the cooked flour a little at a time, stir- 
I'ing contiauously. When smooth, add the first 
mixture of chicken, etc. 

Tomato Sauce 

% dozen large ripe tomatoes ; %. cupful meat 
gravy or good stock; 1 blade mace; 2 shallots; 

2 cloves; y^ teaspoonful salt; % teaspoonful 
paprika. 

Cut the tomatoes in halves and scoop out the 
seeds. Put them iu a saucepan with the gravy 
or stock ; add the seasoning, and stew slowly for 
half an hour or longer. Press through a sieve 
and return the pulp to the saucepan ; bring to 
a boil, and serve very hot with cutlets or roast 
meat. 

If objectionable, the mace, cloves, or shallots 



SAUCES 499 

may be omitted, or a small minced onion may 
be stewed with the tomatoes in place of any 
shallots. Some prefer the flavor of the toma- 
toes without other seasoning than is given by 
the gravy, salt, and pepper. 

When done, the sauce should be of the con- 
sistency of thick cream. Should it be too thin, 
boil it dow;n quickly, if too thick, add a little 
more gravy or stock. 

Oyster Sauce 

Make a rich cream or white sauce with the 
strained and skimmed oyster liquor and half a 
cup of milk or cream. 

Simmer the oysters in just water enough to 
cover until they curl, but do not allow them to 
toughen. Chop or cut them fine and add to the 
sauce with a dash of white pepper or paprika, 
and a little lemon juice. Let all get very hot 
and serve at once with roast turkey or fish. 

Port Wine Sauce 

y2 cupful rich brown stock or brown sauce; 
1/2 cupful port wine; 1/2 cupful currant jelly; 1 
teaspoonful lemon juice; salt; a dash of 
cayenne ; 2 or 3 cloves and whole allspice each ; 
a small stick of cinnamon ; a blade of mace. 

Heat the stock with the spices long enough 
to extract their flavor; add the melted currant 
jelly, wine, and salt and pepper. When all are 



500 SOUF3, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



thoroughly hot and well blended, skim out the 
spices and serve with venison or game. 

Onion Sauce (Called also Soubise Sauce) 

Cook together until smooth 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and 2 of flour. Stir in slowly 1 cupful 
of hot stock. Add 2 or 3 onions that have been 
sliced and cooked in salted water for fifteen 
minutes. Season with salt and cayenne, and 
add last % cup of hot cream. 

Parsley Butter 

Rub 3 tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream. 
Beat iu slowly half a tablespoonful of strained 
lemon juice and a tablespoonful of finely minced 
parsley; season with white pepper. .Beat until 
creamy, and put on ice and serve with meats. 
Or double the amount of lemon juice, and serve 
hot with boiled or broiled fish. 

Bernaise Sauce 

Place on one side of the stove in a saucepan 
2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon or common vin- 
egar and 2 of water, and a slice of onion. 
While this is heating, cream 4 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and beat very light the yolks of 3 
eggs, to which add % teaspoonful of salt and 
paprika. Remove the onion from the heated 
vinegar and beat in rapidly the beaten yolks. 
Stir until of a creamy consistency; then add a 



SAUCES sot 

spoonful at a time of the butter, beating all the 
time, so as to have the sauce very light. 

Bread Sauce 

Heat 1 cupful of milk, 1 tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and season with salt, pepper, and onion 
juice. Dry in the oven V3 cup of bread crumbs, 
taking care to toss them about so as to evenly 
dry and keep separate. Do. not brown. Bring 
the milk to a boil, and stir in the bread crumbs. 
To be served with game or fowl. 

Caper Sauce for Mutton 

Boil together 1% cups water, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 4 tablespoonfuls capers, and 1 teaspoon- 
ful vinegar. In separate saucepan place 1 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour, a pinch 
of salt, and a dash of cayenne. Cook thor- 
oughly, and when boiling stir in a little at a 
time the mixture from the first saucepan. 

Roux for Thickening; Sauces (Dark) 

1 ounce butter ; 11/^ ounces dried flour ; 2 cups 
stock. 

Put the butter in a saucepan and melt slowly ; 
then add the flour, stirring with a wooden spoon 
until it is a light brown in color ; it will require 
about ten minutes. Take it from the fire and 
let it cool for two or three minutes and stir in 
the stock. Return to the fire and stir until it 



502 SOUPS, CHO\(nDERS, AND FISH 

boils, and let it simmer until it is sufficiently 
thick. It should be stirred until very smooth. 
For white roux use white stock and remove 
the butter and flour from the fire as soon as 
perfectly blended, and before it has become 
colored. 



DRESSINGS 

Bread Dressing for Game 

To % a cupful of fine bread crumbs add 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter ; season with yi 
teaspoonf ul salt, a dasb of cayenne and of 
paprika. 

Place in a double boiler a cupful of milk, a 
couple of slices of onion, a blade of mace, and 
V% bay leaf; bring to a boil, strain, and return 
to saucepan. Now mix in tbe bread crumbs. 
This is served with ^mall game, either as a 
side-dish or as a garniture. 

Chestnut Dressing 

To % cupful of bread crumbs add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter and 1 tablespoonful 
cream. Season with salt, a dash of cayenne, a 
little grated nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls hot 
^ater; mix well together. Mash 1 cupful of 
boiled chestnuts and mix with the other in- 
gredients. Use for stuffing turkey and chicken. 

Potato Dressing for Duck 

Beat light 2 cupfuls mashed potatoes ; add i/4' 
cup of cream, 1 tablespoonful butter. Season 

503 



504 SOUPS. CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

with % teaspoonful each of salt, paprika, onion 
juice, chopped parsley, a teaspoonful kitchen 
bouquet. Then stir in the well-beaten yolks of 
2 eggs; 1/2 cupful 'of chopped nut-meats may be 
added to the dressing. 




SIDE OF THE STEER AFTER 
BEING DRESSED 



MEATS 

To Broil a Steak 

SiELOiN and porterhouse are the choicest cuts, 
but the top round is juicy, and often very ten- 
der. A steak should be cut from one inch to 
one and a half or two inches in thickness, ac- 
cording to fancy or taste. If there is reason to 
suppose that the steak is tough, it may be 
pounded for two minutes with a meat hammer. 

Wipe clean, trim off the long ends ; they are 
rarely tender enough to serve as steak, and are 
best put aside for stewing, for force-meat balls, 
a breakfast hash, etc., or for soup. Trim off 
the outer skin and any ends of superfluous fat, 
and with a sharp knife take out the bone very 
clean. Some prefer to have the bone of a sir- 
loin left in, but it is much easier to cook and 
carve without it, and since the bone scorches 
easily over the -hot blaze, it is better for the 
soup if not eooked, besides being easier to cut 
clean of the meat, which is most tender and 
juicy near the bone. 

Eub the gridiron or broUer with a piece of 
the fat, and broil over clear, hot coals, turning 
it every ten seconds to sear both sides as quickly 

33 505 



506 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

as possible and prevent the loss of the juices. 
Four or five minutes will be sufficient to cook a 
steak of medium thickness, if liked rare ; double 
that time, if to be well done. 

Have a hot platter in readiness, and as soon 
as done sufficiently place the steak on the dish, 
cover generously with butter, shake over it salt 
and pepper, stand it for two minutes in the hot 
oven, and serve. 

Pan-Broiled Steak 

While broiling over coals is supposed to be, 
par excellence, the method for cooking a steak, 
very nearly the same result may be obtained 
by broiling in a hot frying-pan or on a grid- 
iron, but the pan must be heated to a blue heat 
before putting in the steak. 

Lay the steak in the pan without butter or 
grease of any kind. Let it sear just long 
enough to prevent the escape of juice, then turn 
at once and sear the other side. Keep turning 
it often. The outside being all quickly seared, 
there will be very little chance for the loss of 
the juices, and if the pan is as hot as it should 
be, very little more time, if any, will be required 
than to cook over hot coals. Serve the same as 
before. 

Should there be sufficient juice in the pan 
for a little g^avy, pour in 2 or 3 spoonfuls 



MEATS 507 

of boiling water ; stir it around to dissolve the 
coagulated juiqe, add a little salt, and pour 
around tlie steak, 

Hamburg Steak 

Take a thick slice from the top of the round. 
Have the butcher put in with it a small piece of 
marrow. Pound the steak enough to loosen the 
small fibres,, cut iu convenient pieces for put- 
ting through the grinder, and remove any 
threads of tough fibre. These will sometimes 
collect in the teeth of the grinder, and may be 
easily removed with a fork. Put with the 
pieces of meat a small piece — ^what would 
amount to 2 teaspoonfuls — of the marrow and 
grind through with it, putting in at the last a 
small piece of stale bread or crust; this will 
clear all meat from the teeth of the chopper, 
and the small amount of crumbs will do no harm 
in the meat. 

Add to the chopped meat a few drops of onion 
juice or kitchen bouquet, and pepper, but do not 
salt it until after it is cooked; it will be less 
tender and juicy if salted first. Toss it lightly 
with a silver fork to mix the seasoning in, and 
with the fork, or two forks, make it into cakes 
or flattened balls. This is easiest done on a 
shallow baking-dish (a granite pie-plate is good 
for the purpose). Do not pack the meat 



508 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

closely, or make it into cakes with the hands, 
but pack it only closely enough with the fork 
to make the balls hold in shape. 

Have the pan very hot, as for broiling other 
steak, rub it with a piece of fat to prevent stick- 
ing and breaking the balls in turning. As soon 
as seared on the under side, turn with a spatula 
and cook the other side. They should be well 
browned on the outside and rare and juicy 
within. 

As soon as done lift with the spatula to a 
hot platter, make an incision with a knife in the 
centre of each ball, put a lump of butter in the 
place, sprinkle with salt, set in a hot oven for 
two minutes, and serve. 

Should there be any gravy in the pan, add 
2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, a little salt, and a 
dash of paprika ; stir briskly, and pour around 
the balls. 

Beefsteak with Mushrooms 

Before putting the steak on to broil, prepare 
the mushrooms. If canned, open and turn them 
out of the can; 1/2 a can will be sufficient for 
an ordinary-sized steak. Cut the mushrooms 
in two, and saute them in a tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying-pan. Add % cup of bouillon 
or clear stock and let them simmer for ten min- 



MEATS 509 

utes. Not having the bouillon or stock at hand, 
use boiling water with half a teaspoonful of 
beef extract, well-seasoned with salt, paprika, 
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Broil the steak over a clear fire, dish it on a 
hot platter, pour the mushrooms and gravy 
around it, cover, and let it stand in a hot oven 
not over three minutes, and serve. 

Beefsteak and Onions 

A steak from the rump or the top round will 
answer very well ; by laying it on the meat board 
and beating it for two minutes with a meat 
hammer or wooden potato masher, it will be 
made more tender. Have the cut from ll^ to 
11/2 inches in thickness. Put in a frying-pan 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter, and when it is hot, not 
brown, lay in the steak and cook ten minutes, 
not too fast or it will burn the butter and meat. 
Turn and cook on the other sidei the same length 
of time, taking care in turning that the meat 
is not pricked, as the juices must be kept in as 
much as possible. After it has been turned it 
may be sprinkled with salt and pepper; there 
is then little danger of the salt extracting the 
juice. 

Before cooking the steak prepare 1 pint of 
medium-sized onions; boil them rapidly for 
twenty minutes in slightly salted water. Drain 



510 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

them well, and slice in thin, even slices. Dish 
the steak on a hot platter and set it in the oven 
to keep hot. Put the sliced onions in the fry- 
ing-pan and fry in the butter and meat juice 
until a golden brown; season with pepper and 
a little salt, and add 2 teaspoonfuls of wine 
or tarragon vinegar. Stir gently, keeping the 
onion slices as whole as possible. Pour this 
around the hot steak, and sprinkle finely minced 
parsley over all. 

A good effect, both for the palate and the 
eye, is obtained by the addition of a half dozen 
freshly cooked, small young beets. Slice or 
dice thin, and add to the onion just before 
serving it, letting them remain long enough to 
get hot, but not long enough to lose their bright 
color. 

Roast Beef 

In the days of open fires for cooking pur- 
poses, the roasting of a large joint of meat 
meant frequent turning on the spit to allow all 
the outside to come in contact with the intense 
heat. The nearest approach to this method of 
roasting, since the advent of improved coal and 
gas ranges, is to put the meat into an oven hot 
enough to quickly cook the outside, and so con- 
fine the juices while the cooking process is com- 
pleted, which must also be done quickly, leaving 
the inside juicy and rare. This rich juiciness 



MEATS 5JJ 

can better be obtained by using a roasting-rack 
or trivet than by simply baking with the meat 
resting on the bottom of the pan. If, however, 
the latter way is more convenient, have only 
sufficient water in the pan to prevent burning, 
not enough to steam the meat. 

In roasting a sirloin of 6 or 8 pounds, cut off 
the griBater part of the flank, it will make a 
stew or soup stock. Wipe the meat, or rinse 
quickly in cold water, and immediately wipe it 
dry. Trim off any superfluous pieces of fat, 
and, if necessary, skewer it. 

Lay it on the roasting-rack with the skin side 
up, and dust first with flour, then with salt and 
pepper. Put a few pieces of fat or 2 spoonfuls 
of drippings in the bottom of the pan, and put 
it in the hot oven. When the outside has be- 
come well seared, baste with the drippings and 
dredge again with salted and peppered flour. 
A little of the flour will go into the pan; when 
this has browned pour in a little boiling water, 
keeping just suflicient water in the pan to pre- 
vent the fat and flour from burning. 

If the oven does not roast evenly enough to 
cook all sides alike, turn the pan around or turn 
the meat over. 

Allow from ten to fifteen minutes to each 
pound of beef for cooking, in proportion to the 
degree of rareness liked. If cooked very rare, 



512 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

a large roast may be reheated on the second 
day, by putting it in the pan with a little drip- 
pings and putting in a moderately hot oven 
just long enough to become thoroughly heated 
through, basting and taking care that it does 
not cook enough to make it dry. 

WJien the roast is done remove it to a hot 
platter, and if a gravy is to be made, carefully 
pour off as much as possible of the clear fat in 
the pan, add a cupful of boiling water, and stir 
well to mix in all the browned juice and flour; 
scrape this into a saucepan, add more water if 
needed, or some good soup stock, and if the 
flour in the pan does not thicken it sufficiently, 
pour 2 spoonfuls of the fat into the baking-pan ; 
when hot stir in flour to thicken, stirring until 
smooth and brown; add this to the gravy, stir 
briskly. Season with salt and pepper, and 
simmer five minutes. It should be smooth if 
made carefully, but if not, strain before serv- 
ing. 

Roast from the Round 

The top of the round, if not as tender as the 
better cuts, is usually juicy, and if well-done 
meat is preferred, will be very palatabile. A 
piece not more than three inches thick should 
be put in the bottom of the roasting-pan, 
dredged with flour, salt, and pepper, and slices 
of clear, solid fat or suet laid on top. Not 



MEATS 513 



more than ten minutes to the pound need be al- 
lowed for cooking, since there is no bone, and 
it is thin. Carve the same as a thick steak, in 
thin slices. 

Rib Roast 

It is more convenient to have your butcher 

remove the ribs and roll and tie the roast into 

a nice shape. This done, wipe it carefully, 

dredge as for sirloin, and roast in the same way. 

Stuffed or Farcied Roast Beef 

The round is good for this. Have a top 
round two or more inches in thickness. Trim 
off the skin, dust with salt and pepper. Make 
a stuffing as follows : 

1 cupful bread crumbs ; 1 egg ; salt and pep- 
per; 1 tablespoonful finely chopped salt pork; 
1 tablespoonful melted butter; 1 teaspoonful 
mixed sweet herbs ; a few drops of onion juice 
or kitchen bouquet. 

Moisten the crumbs with hot water, add the 
sweet herbs and other seasoning, pork and but- 
ter, mix all together, and add the beaten egg 
last. Put this on the meat and roll it up in a 
compact, well-shaped piece. When well se- 
cured, cut slashes in the top, taking care not to 
cut through to the stuffing, lay strips of clear 
fat in th6 gashes, dredge with flour as for a 
roast, and cook in the same manner. 



5J4 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

If any of the stuffing is left over, put it in 
one corner of tlie pan, and use it in thickening 
the gravy, adding 14 cupful of tomato pulp or 2 
tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. 

Serve garnished either with potato balls or 
mounds of mashed potatoes browned in a hot 
oven, with creamed onions as an accompani- 
ment. 

Yorkshire Pudding (to be Eaten with 
Roast Beef) 

1 pint milk; 4 eggs; 1 scant cupful flour; % 
teaspoonful salt. 

Beat the egg yolks and whites separately. 
To the well-beaten yolks add the milk and salt, 
and gradually add to the flour, beating until 
smooth ; then beat in the stiffly whipped whites 
of eggs. The pudding should be made when 
the meat is within twenty minutes of being 
done. Raise the meat a couple of inches from 
the bottom of the pan, if it is roasting without 
a rack. It can be held in position by ruiming 
two long wire skewers into each side of the 
joint and letting the ends rest on the sides of 
the roasting-pan. Pour the batter under and 
around the roast, return at once to the oven, 
and bake twenty-five minutes. Or bake in a 
separate pan well-greased, and cut in squares 
to serve. 



MEATS 5J5 

Beef h la Mode 

Get a thick piece of beef of 4 or 5 pounds 
from the round or rump. Trim the edges into 
good shape, wipe, and put it into a deep earthen 
bowl or jar. Pour over it a cupful of vinegar, 
in which have been steeped 1 finely chopped 
onion, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 1 saltspoonful pep- 
per, 1 teaspoonful each cloves, allspice, and 
mustard; a blade or two of mace and a bay 
leaf. 

Turn the meat around in this pickle, and 
leave in it for several hours, turning it over 
several times. Make several deep incisions 
and fill them with a dressing of bread crumbs 
seasoned plentifully with salt, pepper, finely 
minced onion, or a few drops of onion juice, 
kitchen bouquet, and sweet herbs. Mix with the 
beaten yolk of 1 egg a tablespoonful, of butter 
or drippings, moistened sufficiently with hot 
water. Tie well with twine or strips of muslin, 
or skewer the incisions with wooden toothpicks 
to keep the stuffing in, and dredge it with flour. 

Mince or slice 2 onions, 1 small carrot, fry 
them in half beef drippings and half fat salt 
pork. When brown, put in the meat and brown 
it on all sides, and pour in enough boiling water 
to half cover the meat. Tie a tablespoonful of 
the mixed herbs and a small onion in a piece of 
jheeseeloth and put in the pan with the meat; 



516 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

cover closely, and let it simmer three or four 
hours. 

When tender take up on a hot platter, take 
off the strings. Skim the fat from the liquor, 
take out the bag of herbs, and make a thickened 
gravy ; boil, and strain the gravy over the meat. 

Beef Stew with Dunr^lings 

Use the flank ends cut from roast or steak, 
chuck, or a shin piece. There should be some 
bone and fat with the lean, as these give a 
richer flavor and the meat is more juicy than 
a clear, solid piece of lean. Two or three 
pounds of meat will make a stow^ for six or 
eight people. 

Cut the meat in rather small pieces, and cut 
it from the bone ; brown them in hot drippings, 
turning the pieces so they will brown on all 
sides. 

Put the meat in a good-sized stewpan with the 
bones and any remnants of cold roast or steak. 
Put in with it 2 small onions, 1 small carrot, 
scraped and diced or sliced very thin, and, if 
liked, 1 small turnip, peeled and diced. Cover 
with boiling water and cook slowly two hours 
or longer. Take out all the bones and the 
pieces of fat ; skin the fat from the -liquor, add 
salt, pepper, and a dash of paprika. 

Have 6 or 8 mediUm-sized potatoes pared and 



MEATS 5J7 

soaked in cold water while the meat was cook- 
ing. Put these in and boil more rapidly than 
before. See that the water just comes to the 
top of the meat and potatoes. 

To make the dumplings, take 2 cupfuls of 
sifted flour ; into one-half the flour rub a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, into the other half 
sift 3 level teaspoonfuls of baking-powder ; mix 
the two parts together, add a saltspoonful of 
salt, mix quickly with enough milk to make a 
rather soft dough, just stiff enough to hold in 
good shape when dropped from the spoon. 
Drop in balls from the spoon into the boiling 
stew, where they should rest on top of the po- 
tatoes, without sinking under the liquor. 

Cover quickly and closely and boil rapidly 
fifteen minutes without lifting the cover. The 
dumplings should be put in when the potatoes 
are half cooked, so that both will be done at the 
same time. The dumplings should be light and 
fluffy and as easy of digestion as any hot bread. 
To dish, carefuUy remove the dumplings to a 
hot plate, put the meat and potatoes in a deep 
hot platter with, the dumplings around them, 
and set in a hot oven. Add to the gravy in ' 
the stewpan 2 spoonfuls of tomato catsup, a 
little minced parsley, more salt if needed, and 
if it requires thickening, add a little rice or 
potato flour moistened with water; let.it boil 



5J8 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

up until thick and pour over the meat. If there 
is too much gravy to serve in the dish with the 
meat, put the rest in a hot gravy tureen. 

Beef Hash 

(Jut the fat and every atom, of gristle from 
cold roast or boiled beef and chop fine. Add a, 
little less quantity of cold chopped potatoes. 
Season with salt and pepper, a little melted but- 
ter and milk or cream — ^preferably cream — 
sufficient to. moisten it. Turn into a frying-pan 
and heat, stirring until it is hot; then let it 
brown on the bottom, or turn out without 
browning on a hot dish. 

Make corned-beef hash in the same way, care- 
fully trimming off the fat and any objection- 
able bits before chopping. When thoroughly 
heated, lift with a spoon from one side of the 
pan to the other, and add a spoonful of drip- 
pings ; spread the hash evenly over the pan and 
let it get well browned. Invert on a hot plat- 
ter and serve poached eggs on top, or garnish 
with a border of hard-boiled eggs sauted in 
crumbs. 

Rissoles of Beef 

Use either remnants of cold steak or roast 
beef. Trim off and discard all bits of gristle 
and leave very little, if any, of the fat meat. 
Chop very fine and with it chop a small slice 



MEATS 519 

of fat salt pork, or omit the pork and add later 
a tablespoonful of melted butter. To 1 pint of 
chopped meat add the same quantity of fine 
bread crumbs, moistened with milk or cream 
(if the pork is omitted, mix the butter with the 
crumbs); Season well with salt and pepper, a 
dash of cayenne, and % teaspoonful each of 
onion juice and kitchen bouquet. Add 1 beaten 
egg, mix well together, and if not moist enough 
add a little more milk or cream. 

Make into balls as large as a small hen's egg, 
flouring the hands and rolling the balls in a 
very little flour. Fry in a frying-basket in deep 
hot fat; % lard and % clear beef drippings is 
best. When nicely browned, drain on a sheet 
of brown paper in a hot oven ; pile them in the 
centre of a platter, and serve with a border of 
ripe, firm tomatoes, peeled and cut rather 
thick, with a spoonful of mayonnaise in the 
centre of each slice, or with slices of boiled 
beets. Alternate either tomatoes or beets with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Veal, lamb, or mutton may be used in the 

same way. 

Ragoat of Beef 

Put in a stewpan slices of cold roast or 

boiled beef. To each pound of meat add 3 

small onions, salt and pepper. Cover with 

boiling water and simmer two hours or more, 



520 MEATS, POULTRY, AMD GAME 

or until the meat is so tender as to fall readily 
to pieces. Add % cupful of tomatoes, % cupful 
of chopped mushrooms, a few pickled walnuts 
or capers, and % teaspoonful of curry powder. 

Mix 1 tablespoonful of flour with water until 
smooth, add a little of the hot liquor and stir 
well; pour into the hot ragout, and cook ten or 
fifteen minutes longer. 

Serve with mashed potatoes. 

Spiced Pressed Beef 

Take a shin bone and a pound or two of other 
good stewing piece, the lower round or rump 
will do. Have about 3 pounds of meat in all. 
Wash and wipe off the outride and trim away 
any poor pieces of fat or dried edges of the 
meat. Crack the bone as for soup. Cut in 
pieces that will pack closely in the kettle with 
the bone. Cover with cold water, and bring at 
once to a boU. Add salt and pepper, a finely 
chopped onion, and a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
and simmer slowly until the meat falls to 
pieces. The liquor should then be reduced to 
about one-half. 

Take out the meat and pick into rather small 
pieces with a fork. Strain the liqror, add 1/2 
teaspoonful each of groimd cloves, adspice, and 
mace, a little mustard and cay em e, and, if 
liked, celery salt. Let this come to a boil and 




ROUND OF BEEF 






KEATS 52J 

return tlie meat, stirring it well together with 
a fork. When it is thoroughly heated, turn out 
into an oval dish or mould, cover with a plate 
to press the meat well down, and put it away to 
cool. There should be liquor enough to make 
it quite moist, and when cold the liquor should 
be a solid jelly. 

Cooked in this way it can be served cold in 
thin slices for lunch or Sunday supper, either 
with or without tomato sauce or mayonnaise 
dressing; it is delicious in sandwiches, or it can 
be cut in half -inch slices, crumbed, and sauted 
in butter. 

For a change from sliced meat, mould it in 
custard cups or any small moulds. Keep them 
on the ice until just ready to serve ; dip the cups 
in hot water for a moment and turn the meat 
out on a platter, and garnish with sprigs of 
parsley alternated with crisp, white celery tops, 
with sprigs of parsley stuck between the 
moulds. 

Or for a piece de resistance for the Sunday 
evening supper, garnish with sauted hard- 
boiled eggs. 

Meat and Potato Pie 

Cut any cold cooked meat into small pieces, 
there may be more than one' Mnd. Carefully 
remove all gristle and any stringy fat; put it in 

34 



522 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

a deep baking-dish, the sides of which have been 
well buttered and lined with mashed potatoes, 
the thickness of an inch. Cover the meat with 
a well-seasoned brown gravy or stock to which 
has been added I/2 cupful of stewed tomatoes, or 
3 tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. If there is a 
little cold rice, add 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls. 

Add a well-beaten egg to the mashed potato, 
spread lightly over the top of the pie, leaving 
the surface rough; put bits of butter over the 
top and bake until well browned, which will take 
about twenty minutes. 

Pot Roast of Beef 

Get a 4- or 5-pound piece of rump or round 
of beef. If not a solid, well-shaped piece, 
skewer it closely, and fasten in between the 
skewered parts small pieces of clean fat or mar- 
row. Put 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of beef drip- 
pings in the kettle, or fry out slices of the fat, 
and when very hot, put in the beef and brown 
it, turning it on all sides so that it, will be well 
and evenly browned. Add a cupful of boiling 
water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, % teaspoonful of 
pepper, and 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Cover the kettle closely and let it simmer 
three hours, adding water as often as necessary 
to keep it from burning, and keep about the 
same quantity in the kettle all the time. 



MEATS 523 

When done, remove the meat to a hot platter, 
and make a brown gravy of the liquor by stir- 
ring in a tablespoonful of flour moistened and 
made smooth with a teaspoonful of Worcester 
or a tablespoonful of tomato catsup. Let it 
boil up, and serve in a gravy-boat. 

Meat cooked in this way can be reheated by 
putting in the kettle with just water enough to 
keep it from burning, covering closely, and giv- 
ing it plenty of time to heat through, taking 
care that it does not scorch; or it is nice sliced 
thin and served cold for lunch or supper, with 
Worcestershire or sauce piquante. 

Breaded Beef's Liver 

See that the liver is a fresh one. Have the 
slices cut thin, and let them stand ten minutes 
in boiling water. Fry slices of bacon very 
crisp and remove them to a hot dish. Take a 
tablespoonful of the fat, shake in black pep- 
per, dip the slices of liver in this, then in bread 
crumbs mixed with finely minced parsley, and 
fry in the hot bacon fat until browned on both 
sides. When done, lay on a hot platter with 
the slices of bacon and sprigs of parsley as a 
border; add to the fat left in the pan a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
tomato catsup; stir well together and spread 
hot on top of the liver. 



524 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Irish Stew 

Use the back ribs or neck of mutton, the 
fleshy part of which must be cut into cutlets. 
Flatten these pieces pf meat with a roller, and 
dip them in a composition of pepper, salt, and 
flour. Peel potatoes and slice them to the ex- 
tent of 2 pounds of potatoes for every pound 
of meat. Melt a little suet or dripping in the 
soup pot, place a layer of potatoes in the bot- 
tom, dust well with pepper and salt, then add a 
layer of meat, sprinkled with chopped onions. 
Proceed until the dish is nearly full, fill up with 
gravy if you have it, if not, water will do ; finish 
off with a treble row of potatoes on top. Let 
it all stew slowly for about three hours, taking 
care to keep the lid so tight that none of the 
virtue could escape. Shake the pot occasion- 
ally with force, to prevent burning. It should 
be served as hot as possible. It is both a 
savory and inexpensive dish for cold weather. 

An Old-Fashioned Boifed Dinner 

Wash 6 pounds of corned beef and put into a 
kettle with plenty of water. Simmer until ten- 
der, but not long enough to fall to pieces. It 
will take about four hours for it to cook. Cut 1 
small cabbage into quarters; scrape 4 carrots 
and- 2 parsnips; pare 4 turnips and cut into 
halves; and peel 10 potatoes. An hour before 



MEATS 525 

ilii ri - II I . _ .. . 

dinner skim the fat from the beef liquor, and 
turn part of it into another kettle. Into this 
kettle pour some boiling water and put in the 
carrots, turnips, and 4 beets. Cook the cab- 
bage in a separate vessel. Put the potatoes in 
the kettle with the meat about half an hour be- 
fore dinner. "When all are cooked tender, dish 
the meat on a large platter and place around it 
the vegetables. A nice hash should be made 
with the remains of the boiled dinner. 

Creamed Dried Beef 

Shave f pound of beef very thin and put it 
into a stewpan with enough water to cover, to 
which 14 of a teaspoonf ul of soda has been added. 
Set the pan on the back part of the stove for 
thirty minutes, then turn off the water, add 1 
cupful of rich milk, and season with salt aiid 
pepper. Let it come to a boil, then add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter mixed with 2 of flour, and 
after it has boiled for a minute or two turn into 
a hot dish and serve at once. 

Dried Beef witli Eggs 
Shave J pound of beef and put it into 
tepid water for half an hour, with a pmch 
of soda in the water to counteract the acid in 
the dried blood. Drain off the water and cut 
the meat into small bits. Return to the pan 
with a tablespoonful of butter and a little pep- 



526 ' MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



per, then add 4 well-beaten eggs, stir briskly 
for a moment, and send to the table in a covered 
dish. 

Rdchauffe of Beef h la Jardiniere 

Put yesterday's piece of meat in a roasting- 
pan, sprinkle with pepper and salt, cover with 
thick slices of tomatoes. Pour a cupful of boil- 
ing water over it, cover, and cook for thirty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. Meanwhile boil until 
tender a pint of green peas, a pint of finely cut 
up potatoes, 3 carrots cut ijito small pieces, and 
8 or 10 onions. Season these with pepper and 
salt. Place the beef with the tomatoes on a hot 
platter and arrange the vegetables neatly 
around the beef. Send at once to the table. 

Beef Balls 

Chop cold roast beef very fine, leaving in the 
fat, but removing all pieces of gristle. To 1 
cupful of meat put a small cupful of fine bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper, enough stock to 
moisten, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
and 1 well-beaten egg. Set aside to cool, and 
when cold form into balls, roll in egg and fine 
crumbs, and fry for two minutes. 

Curried Beef 

Cut 3 onions into slices, and fry. Pour over 
them a little stock, and add a sliced sour apple 



MEATS 527 

and simmer until tender. Rub through a sieve, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, and 1 of curry-paste 
and enough stock to make a sauce. When it 
becomes smooth and thick, put in the dressed 
beef, which has been cut into dice. Simmer 
gently for a short time, and serve vpith boiled 
rice. 

Steak ^ la Bordelaise 

Put 1 tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, 
and 6 fresh mushrooms; cover and set on the 
back of the stove until the mushrooms are ten- 
der. Push the mushrooms to one side of the 
pan and add 1 tablespoonful of flour to the but- 
ter; when well mixed stir in a cupful of stock. 
Let it come to a boil, then season with salt, pep- 
per, and kitchen bouquet, and let it stand over 
hot water while you broil the steak. As soon as 
the steak is broiled, place it on a hot platter, ar- 
range the mushrooms on the steak, and pour the 
sauce over it all. Garnish with sprigs of pars- 
ley, and serve at once. 

Beef Loaf 

Chop 4 pounds of the round very fine ; add 2 
cupfuls of bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 1 
large onion, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and 4 eggs. 
Mix well together, then pack into a square 
bread-pan. When cool, turn it out into a 



528 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

greased baking-pan, and bake for two tours in 
a moderate oven, basting occasionally. Serve 
cold, cut in thin slices with cream horseradish 
sauce. 



MEAT AND POULTRY PIES 

Fowl Pie 

Cut an old fowl into joints, divide the breast 
into quarters, and put it in a saucepan with 
plenty of water. Season with onion juice and 
the juice of half a lemon; cover closely, and 
simmer gently for several hours or until the 
fowl is tender. Strain off the gravy and season 
it with minced parsley, a bay leaf, onion juice, 
salt, and paprika. Return to the fire, stir in a 
limip of butter rolled in flour, and cook f o,r one 
minute. Gut the meat from the bones and ar- 
range it in a deep bake-dish ; pour in the gravy, 
lay 2 hard-boiled eggs cut into slices over the 
top, cover with a good crust, and bake. 

Chicken Potpies 

Have several deep dishes about the size of 
a birdbath for the pies. Cut a young fowl into 



MEATS 529 

joints, cover witli cold water, and cook until 
tender, but not until the meat leaves the bones. 
Lay a piece of light and a piece of dark meat 
in each dish, add somd minced salt pork and 
slices of potatoes. Put 3 small cubes of pastry 
into each dish, and 2 very small onions which 
have parboiled for five minutes. Thicken 2 
cupfuls of the liquor the chicken was cooked in, 
with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and season 
it with paprika and minced parsley. Fill the 
dishes, cover each with a good crust, make a 
slit in the middle of each, and bake for thirty 
minutes. This can be made in one dish. 

Chicken-and'Ham Pie 

Cut up a young fowl into joints, cover with 
cold water, and stew until tender. Have ready 
4 slices of cold, boiled corned ham, cut into 
strips. Put a layer of ham in the bottom of a 
buttered baking-dish, season with parsley, 
chopped mushrooms, salt, and pepper. Now 
turn in some white sauce made from the liquor 
ttie chicken was cooked in, then arrange the 
pieces of chicken and the yolks of hard-boiled 
eggs. Eepeat the sauce and seasoning, lay a 
few strips of ham on top, cover with a good 
crust, and bake for an hour and a half. Mush- 
room catsup may be substituted for the fresh 
mushroom. 



530 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Rolled Boiled Beef 

Cut a piece of flank beef about 12 inches 
long, ,6 wide, and 2 incbes thick. Lay on a dish 
and cover with the following force-meat: 1 
cupful of cracker or bread crumbs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped pork; 1 saltspoon- 
ful each of marjoram, sage, and thyme; a few 
drops of onion juice,, 1 teaspoonful of chopped 
onion, ^2 teaspoonful salt, % saltspoonful of 
pepper, and 1 egg. Add enough good stock to 
moisten it so that it can be spread on the meat. 
Roll the meat, spread with the force-meat, and 
tie it closely together ; sew it up in cheesecloth, 
put it into a kettle of boiling water, and cook 
slowly for four hours. Let the beef lie in the 
water until it is cool, then place it under a 
heavy weight for twenty-four hours. Serve 
cold with horseradish sauce. Corned beef is 
good prepared in the same way. 

Baked Beefsteak a la Jardiniere 

Pound a tough steak well, then lay it in salad- 
oil and lemon juice for two hours. Then put 
in your roaster and cover with 2 sliced t6- 
matoes, an onion and turnip, and some minced 
sweet herbs. Pour in a cupful of cold water, 
cover closely and cook slowly, allowing twenty 
minutes to each pound. Peel 4 good-sized to- 
matoes and put them into a saucepan to cook. 



MEATS 531 



Ciit 1 large carrot, 2 turnips, 2 onions, 'and 4 
stalks of celery into dice, and cook them in 
salted water in separate dishes. When the 
steak is done place it where it will keep hot 
while you make the gravy. Strain the gravy, 
rubbing the vegetables with it through a col- 
ander, and thicken with browned flour. Boil 
one minute, then add the juice of 1 lemon and 
a glass of sherry. 

Place the meat on a hot platter, lay the vege- 
table dice around it, leaving the tomatoes 
whole; pour the gravy over all. 

A New England Pot Roast 

Lay a round of beef in a deep pot ; pour in a 
cupful of boiling water, add 2 slices of onion; 
cover, and cook slowly, allowing ten minutes 
to a pound. Now put it in a drippijag-pan, rub 
with butter and flour, and let it brown in a ho^ 
oven. Strain the gravy left in the pan, season 
with salt, pepper, and a little kitchen bouquet, 
and thicken it with browned flour. Let it boil 
for one minute, then pour into a gravy-boat or 
around the beef. 

Beef Hot-pot 

Put 2 pounds of beef ribs into a saucepan 
with 1 tablespoonful of dripping. Season with 



532 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

2 chopped onions, 6 small green peppers, a 
little black pepper, thyme, vinegar, raisins, 
olives, and tomatoes. Place a cover on the 
saucepan and stew until boiled to rags. 
Thicken with butter rolled in browned flour, and 
serve on toast. 

Braised Beefs Tongue 

Wash a fresh tongue and put it into a pot to 
boil. Cook one hour; then trim off the tough 
edges. Fry a sliced onion in 3 tablespoonfuls 
of dripping, then drain out the onion and place 
the tongue in the frying-pan and cook for ten 
minutes, turning twice. Now place the tongue 
on the grating of your covered roaster and 
dredge with flour ; pour the fat and a large cup- 
ful of boiling water over it and cook, closely 
covered, for an hour and a half, basting three 
or four times. When done take up the tongue 
and place it over boiling water to keep warm, 
while you skim off the fat and thicken the gravy 
with browned flour. Season with salt, paprika, 
onion juice, and half a cupful of strained to- 
mato sauce. Dish the tongue and pour the 
gravy over it. Eat horseradish sauce with it. 

Boiled Beef's Heart 

Wash the heart and then let it soak, in cold 
salted water for half an hour. Wipe and stuff 
the ventricles with a force-meat of bread 



MEATS 533 

crumbs and chopped liam or salt pork, seasoned 
with salt, paprika, thyme, and onion juice. 

Sew up in a fitted piece of cheesecloth and 
let it come to a boil in salted water, to which 
a tablespoonful of vinegar has been added. 
Simmer for two hours, turning the heart four 
or five times. Remove the cloth, and serve 
with a piquant sauce. 

Stewed Brisket of Beef 

Take about 7 pounds of nicely trimmed 
brisket. Any bone should be taken out; get it 
without if possible. Put it into a stewpan with 
water or stock to cover, a layer of bacon under, 
and over a few cloves, whole allspice, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, 2 small onions, 2 carrots, and 
salt and pepper at discretion. Simmer in a 
tightly covered stewpan from four to four and 
a half hours; then strain off the liquid (there 
will not be much), reduce it to a glaze, 'keeping 
out a little for sauce. Glaze the meat, and 
send up the sauce thickened round it. Garnish 
with carrot cut into slices, and glazed onions, 
which must be cooked apart from the meat. 

Braised Fillet of Beef 

Take a fillet and roll it together, so as to bring 
the fat into the centre. Place a few slices of 
ham and a little gravy into a braising or stew- 
pan, on which place the meat; cover it with 



534 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

chopped carrots, celery, small onions, a pickled 
chili, a gherkin sliced, sweet herbs, mace, a 
little allspice, and salt. Simmer until the meat 
is tender. Brown it before the fire, or with a 
frying-pan; skim and season the sauce, and 
serve with vegetables and sauce on the same 
dish. 

Corned Beef 
Lay a large round of beef into a good pickle. 
Let it remain for ten days or more, turning it 
every day. Put it into a stewpan with suflfieient 
water to cover it, and let it boil very gently 
until it is thoroughly done. Corned beef is 
often smoked before it is boiled. Allow half 
an hour to the pound after it has come to a boil. 

Fried Liver (English) 

Cut 1 pound of liver into slices a quarter of 
an inch in thickness, and dredge some flour 
over them. Take an equal number of Slices 
of bacon, fat and lean together. Fry the 
bacon first, and when it is done enough, 
draw the rashers from the fat, and place 
them on a hot dish. Fry the slices of liver 
in the same fat, and when lightly browned on 
both sides, dish bacon and liver in a circle, a 
slice of each alternately. Pour the fat from 
the pan, and dredge a little flour into it. Add a 
quarter of a pint of broth, a little salt and pep- 



MEATS 535 

per, and a tablespoonful of itiusliroom ketchup. 
Stir smoothly together until the sauce boils, and 
pour it into the dish with the liver. Garnish 
with sliced lemon. If liked, a tablespoonful of 
finely minced gherkins or pickled walnuts may 
be added to the sauce. Time, a quarter of an 
hour to fry the liver. Sufficient for four or five 
persons. 

Meat for Beef Patties 

Miace half a pound of good fresh suet; put 
it to 1 pound of beef and 1 pound of veal, cut 
into small pieces, but not chopped. Season it 
with pepper, salt, allspice, and a very little 
mace — the allspice and mace should be pounded. 
Mix all together ; and when wanted for patties, 
cut up a little parsley, and shred 1 blade of 
shallot, very finely, to mix with it. 

Bake in patty-pans or buttered saucers lined with pastry- 
or with ii pastry crust for half an hour. They are also good 
cold, and may be warmed up at any time. 
Beef Fritters 

Scrape 1 pound of meat from a piece of cold 
roast beef, and season it with pepper and salt. 
Have ready a batter made with | cup of 
flour and about V2 piJit of water. Blend these 
two well together, and stir in a piece of butter 
about the size of an egg, which has been melted 
before the fire. Whisk the whites of 2 eggs, and 
add them to the batter with the scraped meat. 



536 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

'■■ — ■ ■ ■ ■ 1 

Stir well, and drop only a small quantity at a 
time into the pan, when the lard or dripping is 
boiling. Turn, that both sides may be brown. 
From eight to ten minutes will be sufficient to 
cook them over a steady fire. Dry, and send 
to table on a napkin. Sufficient for two per- 
sons. 

Fricandeau of Beef 

Lard about 3 pounds of the rump or fillet of 
sirloin. Pound 3 or 4 cloves, 6 whole allspice, 
and 2 blades of mace. Mix a little pepper and 
salt with these ingredients, and sprinkle it over 
the meat. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of 
medium stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of 
savory herbs tied together, 2 shallots, and a 
little more pepper and salt. Stew the meat 
very slowly for two hours, when it will be done. 
Eemove it from the steWpan and cover to keep 
hot. Skim aU the fat from the gravy, strain, 
and set it over the fire to boil till it is reduced 
to a glaze. Then put it over the top, and send 
it to table. 

Italian Steak 

Take 2 or 3 pounds of steak from the rump 
or fillet — let it be quite an inch and a half in 
thickness. Brown it in a stewpan with 2 or 3 
ounces of butter, turning it frequently over a 
quick fire. When brown alike on both sides, 
remove the steak to a baking-pan, with "a tight- 



MEATS 537 

fitting lid. Fry 2 medium-sized onions, sliced, 

a shallot, minced, and a bunch of parsley in the 

same butter. Throw this over the steak in the 

pan. Add 2 large wineglassfuls of port, and 

2 breakfast-cupfuls of stock, with a root of 

celery cut into pieces, 2 pickled gherkins, 4 or 

5 cloves, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to 

taste. Cover down the lid tight, that no stesam 

may escape, and let it bake in the oven nearly 

an hour and a half, when put in a turnip and a 

carrot, whole, and close as before. If the roots 

are young they will be done in half an hour. 

Cut them into dice, and lay them over the top 

of the steak, which should be placed on a hot 

idish. Send to table with the gravy strained 

over. 

Jewish Sausage, or Chorissa 

This is used as an accompaniment to boiled 
fish and other dishes, and is often met with at 
Jewish tables. It is purchased of the Jew 
butchers, and is prepared in the following way : 
Place the chorissa in warm water, let it heat 
gently, and then boil for twenty minutes. 
Serve, surrounded with rice made ready as for 
curry. Jewish sausages are very good broiled 
in slices after the previous boiling. They 
should be quite cold before being put again to 
the fire. One authority is of opinion that they 
will be found more digestible, as well as pleas- 
35 



538 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

anter to the taste, if they are half -boiled at least 
before being broiled, toasted, or warmed in the 
oven for the table. 

Olla Podrida 

This is a Spanish national dish, consisting of 
several kinds of meat cut into small pieces and 
stewed with a variety of vegetables. It is much 
in favor with the poor, and is often kept so long 
that its odor and flavor both become highly 
offensive, hence its name — olla podrida, signify- 
ing putrid mess. 

Stuffed Leg of Mutton (Parboiled and Baked) 

Take the bone out of a plump leg of mutton, 
wipe out the cavity and the outside with a damp 
cloth. Make a stuffing of 1 cup of stale bread 
crumbs, and a half pint of oysters, chopped or 
cut in 2 or 3 pieces. Moisten with the oyster 
liquor, and season with salt and pepper, a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, a pinch of thyme, and 
a few crushed capers., Fill the cavity with this 
stuffing, sew or skewer it together securely, put 
the meat in a kettle with sufficient boiling water 
to completely cover it. Let it parboil or sim- 
mer for half an hour, then take it out into a 
dripping-pan, dust with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Pour into the pan a good 
1/^ cupful of the water in which the meat was 
boiled, and bake in a hot oven one hour, basting 



MEATS 539 

frequently while baking with the liquor in the 

pan. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Trim off the outer skin and fat, wipe and put 
the leg into boiling salted water. When the 
scum begins to form, skim it. 

Boil slowly or simmer ten minutes to each 
pound of m^at if it is mutton; fifteen minutes 
for lamb. 

Serve with ^aper sauce and currant jelly. 
Garnish the joint with parsley. 

Mutton Cutlets and Mushrooms 

Cut the mutton in round, rather thin sHces. 
Dust with salt and pepper, dip into beaten egg, 
and then in bread crumbs, again in egg and 
crumbs; fry in hot fat until a light bi"own. 

Simmer a cupful of chopped mushrooms in 

% cup of good stock or gravy ; season with salt 

and pepper, add % glass of melted currant 

' jelly, and pour around the cutlets, after putting 

them on the hot serving dish. 

Broiled Mutton Chops 

Loin chops are the best. Trim off the outer 
skin and superfluous fat. Broil on a wire 
broiler over clear, hot coals, turning quickly 
that both sides may be seared and confine the 
juice. As soon as both sides have been kept 
for two minutes to the fire, let them broil more 



540 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

slowly until done; five minutes is sufficient if 
they are liked rare. As soon as done lay the 
chops on a hot platter, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and serve plain or with parsley butter, 
tomato or soubise sauce. Grarnish with parsley 
and slices of lemon. 

Pan-broiled Mutton Chops 

Prepare the chops the same as for broiling 
over coals. Have a frying-pan at a blue heat. 
Put the chops in without any fat, cook one min- 
ute, then turn and cook the other side, turn 
again and finish a little more slowly. Stand 
them up in such a way as to cook the edges, but 
do not let them get overdone. Just before tak- 
ing them up sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Put them on a very hot serving-dish, turn 
melted butter or parsley butter over them^ and 
serve plain or with a border of green peas. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton 

Have the bones taken out of a shoulder of 
mutton. Rub it all over with salt and dust it 
with pepper. Make a dressing of 1 cupful bread 
crumbs, 1 cupful finely chopped raw potatoes, 1 
onion chopped fine and cooked five minutes in 
a tablespoonful of butter, and 14 cupful of finely 
minced boiled ham. Mix all thoroughly to- 
gether; season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful 
of mixed sweet herbs, and if any moistening is 



MEATS 54J 

needed, add sufficient hot water to moisten the 
bread crumbs. Put this dressing in the inside 
of the shoulder, roll up compactly, and stitch or 
tie it securely. 

Put it in the basting-pan, pour around it a 
cupful of good broth, and roast one and a half 
hours in a moderately hot oven, basting often 
with the broth. 

Serve all mutton on very hot dishes. 

Braised Fillet of Mutton 

Cut the fillet from a leg of mutton by taking 
off a few inches from the loin end, and a good 
knuckle, which will do for boiling, from the 
other end. Take out the bone, and fill the 
hollow with force-meat, if liked, or put the fillet, 
well sprinkled with pepper and salt, into a 
braising-pan as it is, but first lay over the bot- 
tom slices of bacon, land on these a couple of 
carrots and 2 large onions, each stuck with 4 
cloves, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, a 
few peppercorns, and half a pint of gravy or 
stock. Put more bacon on the top, cover the 
lid, and braise for three or four hours. Strain 
the gravy, and flavor it to taste ; reduce it by 
rapid boiling. Have ready some French beans 
boiled and drained; put the beans into a stew- 
pan with the gravy, and when hot serve them 
and the meat, which should be glazed, on the 



542 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



same dish. The chump end of a loin may be 
roasted, then glazed, and served with beans in 
precisely the same way. The meat should be 
roasted slowly without getting any brown color. 
Time, about two hours to roast the chump. 

Curried Mutton 

Put 4 ounces of butter into a stewpan, and 
pound 6 middle-sized onions in a mortar; add 
the onions to the butter with an ounce of curry 
powder, a teaspoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful 
of flour, and 1 pint of cream or milk. Stir until 
smooth. Fry 2 pounds of mutton, cut in neat 
pieces, without bone. Let them be of a light 
brown color. Lay the meat into a clean stew- 
pan, and pour the curry mixture over. Simmer 
until the meat is done. Time, two hours to 
simmer. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five 
persons. 

Haricot Mutton 

Take 3 pounds of the neck of mutton, divide 
it into cutlets, trim them neatly, and fry them 
in a little dripping till nicely browned, and with 
them 3 carrots, 2 turnips, and an onion, all 
sliced. Drain them from the fat, and put them 
into a saucepan. Pour over them a quart of 
water, which has been boiled in the pan in which 
the meat, etc., was fried, and thicken with a 
tablespoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with-a 



MEATS 543 

little cold water. Skim carefully, and season 
with salt and pepper according to taste, and a 
little catsup. Simmer for an hour. Serve with 
the meat in the middle of the dish, the vege- 
tables round it, and the gravy poured over all. 
A few sippets of toasted bread may be placed 
at the bottom of the dish, or served as a gar- 
nish. A garniture of beans is a great improve- 
ment. Sufficient for five or six persons. 

Roasted Loin of Mutton 

Follow the directions given for roast leg in 
every particular, but trim' off all unnecessary 
fat, which may be used for a common suet crust. 
If the fat be not turned to account there is no 
more expensive joint than a loin of mutton. 
Cover the fat with paper until within a. quarter 
of an hour of its being done, then remove, baste, 
and flour slightly, to get it frothed. Time, a 
quarter of an hour to the pound. Sufficient, six 
pounds for five or more persons. 

Kebobbed Mutton 

This favorite Oriental dish can be prepared 
with our mutton in a manner far superior to 
any Kebob at Turkish or Egyptian tables. 
Take a loin of mutton, joint it well at every 
bone, cut off all superfluous fat, particularly of 
the kidney, and remove the skin; prepare a 
well-proportioned and large seasoning of the 



544 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

following ingredients: Some bread crumbs, 
sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; brush 
the mutton chops over with yolk of egg, and 
sprinkle the above mixture thickly over them; 
then tie the chops together in their original 
order, run a slender spit through them, and 
roast in a hot oven, basting them well with but- 
ter and the drippings from the meat, and throw- 
ing more of the seasoning on them from time 
to time. Serve with the gravy from the meat, 
and have ready besides a boat of gravy, to 
which has been added 2 tablespoonfuls of catsup 
and a thickening of flour; let this gravy boil; 
skim and mix it with the gravy in the dish. 
Eemember that all dishes of mutton should be 
served as hot as possible. Time, a quarter of 
an hour to a ppund. Sufficient for four or five 
persons. 

Roasted Leg of Lamb 

To roast without stuffing, wipe with a damp 
cloth, dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Put 
it in a dripping-pan with some of the kidney 
fat and just water enough to prevent its burn- 
ing; put it in a hot oven, and as soon as the 
flour begins to brown, baste with the water in 
the pan. Bake from an 'hour to an hour and 
a quarter. 

To stuff : remove the ,bone, wipe out the 
cavity and fill with a stuffing made of 1 cup 



MEATS 545 

stale bread crumbs and a quarter of a cup qf 
melted butter, moistening more, if necessary, 
with bot water. Season witb a balf teaspoon 
of salt, pepper, thyme, and marjoram (or a tea- 
spoonful of mixed sweet berbs). A few drops 
of onion juice may be added witb good result. 
Fill tbe cavity, sew or skewer it together, and 
roast as above. Serve witb mint sauce. 

Breast of Lamb Braised a la Milanese 

Cover tbe bottom of a saucepan witb tbin 
slices of fat bacon; on these place a trimmed , 
breast of lamb with 2 or 3 slices of lemon on 
top, and cover tbe whole with a few more slices 
of bacon. Add a sliced onion and pour in % 
pint of stock; cover, and put live ashes on top 
of tbe lid. Draw tbe saucepan to one side of 
the fire and braise slowly till the breast is ten- 
der, glazing it when cooked. Lay it on a bed 
of macaroni on a bot dish, pour rich brown 
gravy over, and serve. 

Blanquette of Lamb 

Cut in small pieces tbe meat from 2 shoul- 
ders of lamb ; put into a stewpan and cover witb 
clear broth, or water, and add 1 teacupful white 
wine. When the broth has boiled two or three 
minutes strain it, and set where it will settle. 
Fry 1 chopped onion in a stewpan witb a little 
butter till brown; then add the meat and fry 



546 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



five minutes. Season with, pepper and salt; 
sprinkle lightly with a little flour, and pour in 
the broth gradually. 

Put in 2 cloves and 2 peppercorns, a little 
choppedmushroom, a bay leaf, and a couple of 
parsley sprigs. Boil all quickly for ten or fif- 
teen minutes — till the liquor is reduced to one- 
fourth its original quantity; then remove to 
the back of the range, and cook slowly till the 
meat is done. 

Then skim off the fat from the sauce ; stir in 
3 beaten eggs with a little milk added; stir till 
it thickens, but do not let it boil; grate in a 
suspicion of nutmeg, and take up the meat ; lay 
it on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, and 
sprinkle with parsley. Serve at once. 



Ballotin of Lamb with Green Peas 

Bone a 3-pound shoulder of lamb — the end 
bone may be left for a handle. Season with a 
teaspoonful each of salt and pepper ; sew up 
and fasten securely with string. Put it in 
a saucepan with a small, thin strip of fat pork, 
and a chopped potato, beet, and onion. Cook 
eight or ten minutes, till lightly browned; then 
turn over a pint of broth and Spanish sauce in 
equal parts and cook in the oven about forty- 



MEATS 547 

five minutes. Then strain the sauce over a pint 
of boiled green peas, and cook for two or three 
minutes more. Take the strings from the. 
ballotin; place it on top of the vegetable gar- 
nishing on a hot dish, and serve. 

Lamb Brochettes 

Take the skin from a raw leg of lamb; take 
out the bone, and cut the meat into pieces of 
uniform size. Put them into a bowl and ad(i 
2 shallots, chopped fine, a teaspoonful each of 
pepper, chopped chives, and parsley, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, the juice of half a lemon, and 
a grating of nutmeg. Let this steep for two 
hours, turning the pieces of lamb occasionally; 
then take them out, a:nd run a skewer through 
the centre of each piece, larding it with a strip 
of salt pork ; roll in bread crumbs till well cov- 
ered, and broil .for five minutes. 

Lamb Chops with Champagne Sauce 

Trim 6 lamb chops, and season with 1 salt- 
spoonful salt and % saltspoonful pepper; fry 
in a tablespoonful of butter, about a minute on 
each side. Let them cool slightly, and spread 
chicken force-meat over both sides; cover with 
beaten egg, and an outside coating of bread- 
crumbs ; fry in 4 tablespoonfuls butter for five 
minutes on each side. 



548 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Put a frill of paper on the end of each, chop, 
and serve on a hot dish with half a pint of 
champagne sauce poured over. 

Lamb Epigrammes with Asparagus Tips 

Braise a small breast of lamb until tender, 
then place between two dishes under a weight 
till cold. Then cut into equal pieces, fasten a 
bone like a cutlet bone in each, and trim in 
cutlet shape. 

Prepare an equal number of lamb cutlets of 
the same size. Season all with salt, pepper, 
and a few drops of lemon juice, then dip in 
beateh egg, and cover well jvith bread crumbs. 
Fry in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter till golden 
brown; drain well, and lay in a circle on a hot 
dish, with boiled asparagus tips in the centre. 
Serve with a garnish of parsley. 

Lamb's Fry 

Take a pound or a pound and a half of lamb's 
fry. Wash thoroughly in cold water, then set 
it in a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and 
let it boil for three or four minutes. Take it 
out, drain, and dry it in a cloth. Mix a tea- 
spoonful of flour very smoothly with a little 
cold water, and add to it a small pinch of salt 
and pepper, 6 teaspoonfuls of water, and a well- 
beaten egg. Dip each piece of the fry into this 



MEATS 549 

mixture, tlien fry it in 3 ounces of hot dripping 
until it is brightly browned on both sides, with- 
out being at all burnt. Mix a tablespoonful of 
flour, very smoothly, with the fat in the frying- 
pan, until it is lightly browned. Add sufficient 
boiling water to bring it to the thickness of 
cream, a tablespoonful of catsup, and a little 
browning, if necessary. A few mushrooms, or 
a -little chopped onion, may be added, if liked. 
If preferred, the fry may be cooked without the 
batter, or beaten egg and bread crumbs may be 
substituted for it. 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Cut the chops about half an inch thick, trim 
them neatly, flatten them, remove the superflu- 
ous fat, place them on a hot gridiron over a 
clear fire, ■ and let them remain until brightly 
browned on both sides, turning them with steak- 
tongs when required. Season them with pep- 
per and salt, and serve as hot as possible. Gar- 
nish with parsley. Mashed potatoes, aspara- 
gus, green peas, or spinach are usually served 
with lamb chops. Time, eight or nine minutes 
to broil. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for two 
or three persons. 

Fried Lamb Chops with Parmesan 

Take some lamb chops from the loin or neck. 
Mix some bread crumbs with a little grated 



550 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Parmesan cheese. Dip the chops first into 
clarified butter and bread crumbs, and after- 
wards into beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry 
the chops as before until they are lightly 
browned on both sides, dish them in a circle, 
and send tomato sauce to table in a tureen. 
Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 

Minced Lamb with Poacfied Eggs 

Trim some pieces of cold roast lamb and put 
them through a meat-cutter; season well with 
salt and pepper, and a little mint chopped fine. 

Heat some gravy in a saucepan ; when boiling 
hot thicken with browned flour, and stir in the 
minced meat. Prepare as many triangles of 
buttered toast as needed; place on each piece a 
poached egg; use these as a garnish around the 
mince, when it is poured on a flat dish—hot. 

Curried Pork 

After removing the skin and superfluous fat 
from 2% pounds of pork, cut it into small, thin 
pieces, put them in a saucepan with a table- 
spoonful of butter, and fry for a few minutes 
till they begin to turn brown; then put in 2 
chopped onions, a tablespoonful of curry pow- 
der, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir all to- 
gether and pour in 2 cupfuls broth or water; 
let it come to a boil, and then only simmer for 
about an hour; then put the pieces of meat on 



MEATS 551 

- T -- - I. - ■ 

a dish, and keep hot while the broth is boiled 
quickly down one-half . Pour it over the meat, 
and serve with well-boiled rice, as a garnish 
or separately. 

Broiled Pork and Chili Sauce 

A considerable quantity of chili sauce may 
be prepared at once, as it keeps for some length 
of time; it should be ready before the meat is 
cooked. 

Cut from a leg of fresh pork the desired num- 
ber of cutlets about half an inch thick. Place 
them in a double broiler, and cook over moder- 
ately hot fire for 20 min., or till well done; then 
place on a hot dish, season well with salt and 
pepper, and a little butter. Serve with chili 
sauce in a sauce-boat. 

Fried Pork Cutlets 

Take off the skin and extra fat from a loin 
of pork, chop it into cutlets ; fry them in a lump 
of butter till a bright brown. Have ready the 
bones and any trimmings from ham or bacon, 
and brown them witb a couple of sliced onions; 
cover with water and cook for two hours ; then 
strain and skim. Pour this liqudr into another 
saucepan, and thicken with a little gelatine, 
and add a small quantity of browning for a 
color. Brush this glaze over the cutlets, put 



552 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

them on a hot dish, and turn over some hot 
tomato sauce; serve immediately. 

Baked Pigs' Ears 

The cartilaginous nature of pigs ' ears — ^while 
it is a serious drawback to their transformation 
into " silk purses " — ^makes them a desirable 
article of food. 

Singe off the hair, then scrape and blanch 
6 or more pigs ' ears ; when cold, dip them into 
warm butter, then cover thickly with bread 
crumbs; dip into well-beaten egg yolks, and 
again cover with crumbs. 

Place in a baking-dish and bake moderately 
till done and slightly browned. Arrange on a 
hot dish, pour remoulade sauce over them, and 
serve. 

Boiled Pigs' Feet 

Put the washed pigs' feet in a stewpan with 
enough water to coyer; when it boils take the 
pan off the fire and strain off the water, and put 
the feet in a bowl of cold water. Rinse and 
scald the pan and put back the feet, with 2 
qi^arts of water, a tablespoouful each of salt 
and vinegar, and a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
in a little cold water till smooth. Stir this into 
the liquor, and continue stirring till it boils; 
then draw the pan to one side and let it simmer 
slowly four hours. Take the feet up on a hot 




LOIN OF BEEF 

Where the Sirloins Come Fr 



MEATS 553 



dish, pour over a white sauc^, and serve 
quickly. 

Pigs' Feet, Stuffed a la P^rigueux 

With a pound and a half of turkey force- 
meat mix thoroughly a couple of truffles, minced 
fine, and half a wineglass of madeira wiae. 

Take half a dozen pieces of shredded crepi- 
nette (a skin from the pig's stomach) and 
spread on each a piece of force-meat the size 
of an egg, and on this put half a pig's foot, 
boned. Cover lightly with force-meat, and lay 
2 or 3 thin slices of truffles on top. Fold over 
the crepinettes in the shape of envelopes;' then 
dip them in beaten egg and cover with bread 
crumbs, and cook in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a saute-pan; let them cook slowly for about 
fifteen minutes on each side, with a heavy 
weight on the pigs' feet. Serve with half a 
pint of hot Perigueus sauce; or, if preferred, 
serve with hot madeira sauce instead. 

SAUSAGES 

Mrs. Lincoln says : "If you like to know 
what you are eating, have your sausage meat 
prepared at home or by some one whom you 
can trust." 

The best sausage is made from young or pig , 
pork, and the process is not a difficult one if, as 
36 



554 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

there should be, there is a meat and vegetable 
grinder among the kitchen utensils. When 
once used, this will be found quite indispensable 
for meat^, vegetables, bread crumbs — almost 
anything that requires to be chopped. Ham- 
burg steaks as well as sausages are much better 
when prepared in one 's own kitchen. 

In selecting the pork for sausage, get one- 
third or one-fourth fat, the remainder good, 
solid lean. Grind fat and lean together (or 
have the butcher do it). Season highly with 
salt, pepper, sage, and a little thyme. A good 
proportion for the seasoning is an even table- 
spoonful of salt, 1 even teaspoonful of pulver- 
ized and sifted sage, ^2 teaspoonful of thyme, 
powdered and sifted, and a saltspoon of white 
pepper to each pound of meat. 

Mix all thoroughly together and fill cotton 
bags, pressing the meat in compactly. Bags 
may be made for the purpose, from strong 
muslin, half a yard in length and four or five 
inches wide, or small salt bags may be saved for 
the purpose These should be washed and 
boiled, and when needed for use dip in very 
strong salt water and dry them. 

When filled as full as possible tie the mouths 
of the bags securely and put in a cool place. 
Several smaU bags are better than one large' 
one, as only the meat for once or twice using is 



MEATS 555 

disturbed. Cut in slices what is needed, and tie 
the bag again. 

■ In frying do not have the pan too hot at first, 
as they need thorough cooking, and the outside 
should be well browned, but not burned. 

As an accompaniment, core and pare 1 or 2 
tart apples for each person; slice them across 
and fry in the sausage fat until tender, but not 
broken. Put the sausages in the centre of a 
hot platter and pile the slices around them. 
Tomato sauce may be substituted for the 
apples. 

Boston brown br^ad sliced thin and sauted in 
the sausage pan, turning so that both sides are 
nicely browned, is a good addition to the dish. 

Mecklenburg Liver Sausages 

Take the liver from a pig while it is quite 
fresh; mince it, and then pass it through a 
coarse sieve, but first ascertain its weight. To 
a pound of the liver mix a half-pound of pork 
(boiled tender) that has been cut from any part 
of the pig, although slices from the breast are 
usually taken. Take the tongue, kidneys, and 
some of the inside fat; chop this meat, but do 
not mince it, and mix all with the raw liver. 
Season with salt, pepper, powdered cloves or all- 
spice, and a few sage-leaves reduced to powder. 
The top-fat, from the boiling of the meat, and 



556 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

the liquor should both be used. Put the fat, 
with the meat, into the skins when filling, and 
boil the sausages in ^he liquor (salted), which 
must be made quite hot before they are put in. 
Plunge them, when cooked, into cold water; 
tlien hang them to dry. To be smoked, or not. 
The skins must be only three-parts filled. 
Time to boil, half an hour. 

Baked Sausages 

Put a dozen sausages on a baking-dish, alter- 
nating with 12 strips of bread cut of an equal 
length with the sausages. Prick the sausages, 
and bake for fifteen minutes; baste with their 
own liquor a few times, and when done, serve 
on a small hot platter with a sauce-boat of hot 
madeira sauce. 

Devilled Sausages 

oteam the required numbet of pork sausages 
for an hour; let them get cold. Fry small tri- 
angles of bread in butter to a golden brown; 
then drain and cover thinly with a curry paste. 
Skin and slice the sausages thinly, lengthwise, 
and lay half a sausage slice on each piece of 
bread, and spread over a small quantity of 
mango chutney. Cover, and put in the oven till 
thoroughly hot. Then lay them on a fancy 
paper on a hot dish, and serve with a garnish 
of parsley and sliced lemon. 



MEATS 557 



Boiled Sausages \vith White Wine 

For half a dozen sausages take a half -pint of 
white wine ; pepper the sausages, cover, and let 
them boil gently for ten minutes ; then take up 
the sausages, add a small cupful of poulette 
sauce to the stock, and boil rapidly three or 
four minutes. 

Remove from the fire and add a tablespoon- 
ful each of chopped parsley and butter. When 
the butter has melted, pour the sauce over the 
sausages on a hot dish, and serve quickly. 

Frankfort Sausages 

Mince fine equal quantities of fat and lean 
pork ; season with salt and pepper to taste, and 
coriander seed with a little grated nutmeg. (If 
preferred, use powdered sage in place of the 
coriander' seed and nutmeg.) Fill thoroughly 
cleansed skins, that have been soaked in cold 
salt water, with the sausage meat; fasten the 
ends securely, and let them hang in a dry, cool 
place till wanted. 

Boston Baked Beans 

To be baked to perfection, the New England 
bean-pot should be used, with a narrow mouth 
and bulging sides and a cover that fits the 
mouth. 

Soak overnight in cold water 1 quart of navy 
or pea beans. In the morning pour off the 



558 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

water and put them over tlie fire in fresh water, 
and simmer, or parboil, until, on lifting a few 
on a spoon and blowing a breath over them, the 
skins crack slightly, but do not allow them to 
cook untU they break to pieces. Pour off the 
water, put them in the bean-pot with a small 
onion in the bottom. 

Pour boiliag water over % pound of salt 
pork well streaked with lean. Scrape the rind 
well, or until it is white ; score through the rind 
in half-inch strips. Bury the pork in the beans 
until the rind is even with the beans. Mix 14 
of a cup of molasses with a scant teaspoon of 
mustard, a little salt — if the pork is very lean 
less salt will be required than if nearly all fat; 
add a cup of boiling water, mix well, and pour 
over the beans. Add enough more boiling 
water to cover. Put the cover on the pot and 
bake from six to ten hours in a moderate oven ; 
the longer time is better. Watch that the water 
does not cook away and leave the beans dry, 
adding boiling water to keep them nearly cov- 
ered until an hour before they are done, when 
remove the cover of the pot, lift the pork 
slightly above the surface, and 'allow it to 
brown. Cooked in this way they will be rich 
and juicy and of a rich red-brown color, each 
bean being whole, but very tender. To be 
perfect as served on their " native soil," they 



MEATS 559 

should be very hot and have served with them 
the real Boston brown bread, steaming hot, 
sliced as it is served. 

The red kidney beans are delicious cooked in 
the same way, as are also what are known in 
New England as cranberry beans, a red- 
sp'eckled variety, both these latter being very 
rich and of a delicious flavor. 

Roast Sucking Pig 

Wipe the pig thoroughly, stuff it, and sew up 
the slit securely with soft cotton. Truss it like 
a hare, with the fore-legs skewered back and 
the hind-legs drawn forward. Rub it over with 
clarified butter, or fresh salad-oil, and put it 
into a moderately hot oven. Baste constantly, 
or the crackling will be blistered and burnt, in- 
stead of crisp and brown. The middle part 
requires less roasting than the ends. It is 
usual to keep turning the roast, being quick so 
as not to cool the oven. Baste thoroughly whilst 
it is roasting. When it is cooked, remove to a 
platter and keep hot. Eemove 4;he fat from the 
gravy which has dropped from the pig, and, 
when it can be obtained, add a cupful of good 
veal or beef gravy, together with a little 
cayenne, lemon juice, and grated nutmeg. To 
thicken sift in a little flour, making a rich brown 
sauce. Tomato, poivrade, piquant, provengale, 



560 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

bread, apple,- and the old-fashioned currant 
sauce are all served with sucking-pig. Time 
to roast, according to size: a three-weeks-old 
pig, two hours. Sufficient, a three-weeks-old 
pig for eight or nine persons. 

Broiled Pork Chops 

Get chops rather less than half an inch thick. 
Have a clear fire ; make the gridiron hot before 
putting the chops upon it, and let them be at 
such a distance that they may be done through. 
Pepper them before putting them down, and 
two or three minutes before they are done 
sprinkle a little salt over them, and, if liked, a 
little finely chopped sage or tarragon. Turn 
them frequently, and serve very hot. Tomato 
sauce, piquant sauce, Italian sauce, or Eobert 
sauce, may be sent to table with them. Time 
to broil, sixteen to eighteen minutes. Sufficient, 
one pound for two persons. 

Fried Pork Chops 

Get pork chops half an inch in thickness, take 
off part of the fat, and trim them neatly. 
Sprinkle them on both sides with a little salt 
and pepper. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute- 
pan ; put the chops in it, and fry them until they 
are thoroughly done. If liked, a little pow- 
dered sage can be sprinkled over them before 
serving. Send Eobert sauce, apple sauce, or 



MEATS 561 



piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry, 
twenty minutes — ten minutes on each side. 

Stuffing of Chestnuts and Sauce for 
Sucking Pig 

Peel, scald, and blanch half a hundred chest- 
nuts, and boil them in a pint of milk, with a 
pinch of salt and half an ounce of butter. 
When they are done enough, drain and dry 
them, and mix them with 1 pound of good pork 
sausage meait. Fill the body of the pig, and 
sew it securely. When the pig is filled with this 
force-meat, a sauce, made as follows, should be 
sent to table with it : Peel, scald, and blanch 6 
ounces of sound chestnuts, ' and stew them in 
% of a pint of good brown gravy until they are 
sufficiently tender to be rubbed through a hair 
sieve. Stir into the pulp hajf a dozen table- 
spoonfuls of rich brown sauce, season rather 
highly with mace and cayenne, and add a little 
salt, if necessary. Stir the sauce over the fire 
until it boils, and serve immediately. A glass- 
ful of madeira or sherry may be added or not. 
Time, twenty minutes to boil the chestnuts for 
the stuffing; one hour and a quarter for the 
sauce. Sufficient for one pig. 

Stuffed and Roasted Leg of Pork 

Mince finely 3 large onions which have been 
previously boiled or not, according to taste; 



562 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

mix with them half a dozen chopped sage- 
leaves, 4 ounces of bread crumbs, an ounce of 
butter, a little pepper and salt, and half an 
apple chopped small. Bind the force-meat to- 
gether with the yolk of an egg. Eaise the skin 
round the knuckle of the leg of pork, fasten it. 
securely, and brush the rind all over with 
sweet oil. Put it in a moderately hot oven and 
baste liberally. Serve the meat on a hot dish, 
and send brown gravy and apple sauce to table 
with it. The flavor of this joint will be im- 
proved if it is stuffed the day before it isi 
I'oasted. The Germans stuff a leg of pork with 
sour apples only. Time, a joint weighing eight 
pounds will require three hours. Sufficient. for 
a dozen persons. 

Roasted Spare-Rib of Pork 

A spare-rib of pork usually weighs about 
eight or nine pounds, and will take from two to 
three hours to roast it thoroughly — ^not exactly 
according to its weight, but the thickness of the 
meat upon it, which varies very much. Put 
into a moderately hot oven. A proper bald 
spare-rib of eight pounds' weight (so-called be- 
cause almost all the meat is pared off), with 
a steady fire, will be done in an hour and a quar- 
ter—there is so little meat on a bald spare-rib 
that if you have a large, fierce fire it will be 



MEATS 563 

burnt before, it is warm through. Joint it 
nicely, and crack the ribs across as you do ribs 
of lamb. When you put it in to roast, dust 
on some flour, and baste with a littlQ butter. 
Dry a dozen sage-leaves, rub them through a 
hair sieve^ and put them into the top of a pep- 
per-box, and about a quarter of an hour before 
the meat is done baste it with butter, then dust 
pulverized sage, or sprinkle with duck-stuffing. 
Some people carve a spare-rib by cutting out in 
slices the thick part at the bottoin of the bones. 
When this meat is cut away the bones may be 
easily separated, and are esteemed very sweet 
picking. Apple sauce, mashed yellow turnips, 
mashed potatoes, and good mustard are indis- 
pensable. 

Roast Loin of Pork 

Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork at equal 
distances, about a quarter of an inch apart. 
Brush it over with salad-oil, and place the joint 
into a hot oven. Baste liberally, and when 
done enough serve on a hot dish, and send 
brown gravy and apple sauce or Eobert sauce 
to table with the meat. If liked, a little sage 
and onion stuffing may be served in a separate 
dish. It is better not to send it to table on the 
same dish as the meat, as many people object 
to ihe flavor. Time, a loin of pork weighing 



564 MEATS, POULTRY. AND GAME 



five pounds, about two hours. Sufficient for 
half a dozen persons. 

Souse 

Take the feet of the pig and the head and 
ears, except the fat. Take off the hard part 
from the feet ; singe the hairs, scald and scrape 
thoroughly. Put them in strong salt water and 
let them soak overnight. Scrape and wash 
again, and put them in another salted water 
until ready to cook. Put them in the kettle, 
with enough cold water to cover, and as soon as 
it boils, skim carefully. Let it simmer until the 
bones are perfectly free from the meat, then- 
skim out the meat and separate it from all 
bones, gristle, and the most of the fat, leaving 
only a little of the nicest. 

Season well with salt and pepper, add a little 
vinegar, mix all thoroughly, and pack in stone 
or earthen jars and put in a cool place with a 
weight on the top to harden. 

It may be served cold, nicely sliced', gar- 
nished with sprigs of parsley, or it can be sliced 
and browned in the oven, or cut in nice square 
or oblong slices, dipped in egg and corn meal or 
fine crumbs, and sauted in hot drippings. 

Head Cheese 

Souse and head cheese are prepared in much 
the same way. For head cheese omit the vin- 



MEATS 565, 

egar and season highly with savory herbs. Be- 
fore moulding in jars put it in a cheesecloth 
and press out the fat. Pack it in' moulds of a 
convenient size and shape for slicing, and put 
it in a cool place. These old-time dishes fre- 
quently find favor with those who remember 
how they tasted " at grandmother's." 

Boiled Bacon 

Put the piece of bacon to be boiled into the 
pot with sufficient cold water to cover it. Allow 
it very gradually to come to a boil, removing 
all scum as it arises, and draw it aside to sim- 
mer until thoroughly done; then pull off the 
skin and serve with bread crumbs over the top. 
Time to boil two pounds, one hour and a half; 
half an hour for each additional pound. 

Broiled Bacon 

Cut streaked bacon into thin slices and lay 
them on a gridiron oyer the fire; turn repeat- 
edly until of a light brown color, and serve hot. 
Time to broil, three to four minutes. 

Bacon and Calf's Liver 

The most economical way to prepare this is 
to fry the bacon fir§t and make the fat serve 
for the liver, which, as well as the bacon, should 
be cut into thin slices. Fry the bacon, and 
remove it as soon as it is done enough to a hot 



566 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

dish, before the fire ; flour and pepper the liver, 
and place it in the pan; turn frequently until 
done, then place a slice of bacon on each slice 
of liver. Make a gravy by pouring off the fat 
and dredging a little flour into the pan; pour 
in enough water to supply the quantity of gravy 
desired, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
boil, and pour upon the dish. Garnish with 
force-meat or slices of lemon. Time, from five 
to ten minutes. 

Bacon and Eggs 
Place nicely cut slices of streaked bacon, 
from which the rind has been cut off to prevent 
it from curling up, into a cold pan over a slow 
fire ; turn frequently and serve with eggs, wliich 
may be poached or fried, and laid on the bacon. 
Time, three or four minutes. 

Broiled Ham 

Slices of ham for breakfast may be either 
broiled on a gridiron, toasted, or fried. They 
are, we think, best when toasted on a fork. If 
broiled, the fire must be very clear. The bam 
should not be more than an eighth of an inch in 
thickness, and is better when soaked in hot 
water for a quarter of an hour, and then dried 
in a cloth before being cooked. Turn it as it 
gets crisp. Time, five or six minutes to broil. 
Sufficient, one pound for two persons. 



MEATS 567 

Roasted Ham 

Soak the ham until it is softened, then put it 
into a deep pan, and pour over it a bottle of 
madeira, or any light wine, and with it 4 car- 
rots, 4 onions, and 1 dozen peppercorns. Turn 
it over every two or three hours, and leave it 
until the following day. Drain it, put it into 
a hot oven, and baste liberally with the liquid 
in which it was soaked. It will- require four 
or five hours to roast, according to the size. 
Take it up, skin, and glaze it ; boil up the gravy, 
etc., which should be sent to table in a tureen. 
It is a good plan to boil the ham for an hour 
before it is put into the marinade, when, of 
course, it will not need to be roasted quite so 
long. 

Fried Ham with Eggs 

Cut the ham into slices of a uniform thick- 
ness, and, if it is very hard and salt, soak it for, 
eight or ten minutes in hot water, then drain, 
and dry it in a cloth. Cut off the rind, put the 
slices in a scrupulously clean cold frying-pan, 
and turn them two or three times during cook-' 
ing. Put them on a hot dish, and if the fat is 
in the least discolored, poach the eggs sepa- 
rately. Break the eggs, taking care not to 
break the yolks, and slip them into the pan. 
Gutter the whites over the yolks with two 
spoons, to shape the eggs like a ball. Take 



568 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

them up with a slice, drain them from the fat, 
and place them on the ham. Serve as hot as 
possible. Time, seven or eight minutes to fry 
the ham. Sufficient, a pound of ham and six 
eggs for three persons. 

Veal Cutlets (Plain) 

Wipe and trim the outer skin from the cut- 
lets, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper. 
Have the frying-pan hot, rub it with a piece of 
fat pork or beef suet. Put in the cutlets, and 
as soon as seared on one side turn and sear the 
other. Fry quickly, taking care that they do 
not burn or cook overmuch. There is less juice 
in a veal cutlet than in either beefsteak or lamb 
chops, and they require careful cooking to be 
palatable. 

As soon as done remove to the hot platter 
and make a cream sauce by pouring into the 
■ pan half a cup of milk, and as soon as it reaches 
boiling-point add a teaspoonful of flour and a 
tablespoonful of butter, rubbed .smoothly to- 
gether. Stir until smooth and bubbling, season 
with salt and pepper, and pour around the cut- 
lets. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets with Tomato Sauce 

The cutlets should be rather , thin. Wipe 
them and trim off the skin and any stringy 
pieces of fat. Cut 2 or 3 slices of nice fat salt 




CHUCK OF BEEF 



MEATS 569 

pork in strips % inch wide, fry them until 
crisped, and take out on a paper to drain. To 
the fat in the pan add a spoonful of beef drip- 
pings. Season the cutlets with salt and pep- 
per, crumb them by dipping in beaten egg and 
then in bread crumbs, and fry in the hot fat 
until well browned and cooked through, but not 
too hard. Take them up on a hot platter, and 
into the pan pour % of a cup of milk ; let it boil, 
add a half cup of hot strained tomato, and stir 
briskly. Season with salt and a dash of 
cayenne, and if the crumbs from the cutlets do 
not thicken the sauce sufficiently, add a few 
more, or some cracker flour, and stir till very 
smooth. Pour around the cutlets, and, if liked, 
lay the crisp strips of pork around the edge of 
the platter. 

Veal Potpie 

Take 2 or 3 pounds of veal, the knuckle or any 
pieces that are not too thin or stringy. Trim 
off the skin, take out the small bones, and cut 
the meat into convenient and attractive pieces 
for serving. Pack closely in a stewing-pan and 
cover with boiling water. As soon as it boils 
skim, add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, 1 small onion, sliced, and let it simmer 
two hours. 

Have 6 medium-sized potatoes pared and 
37 



570 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

soaking in cold water. Put them in with the 
meat and boil until nearly done. While the 
potatoes are cooking, make a short biscuit 
dough ; have the stew boiling rapidly and drop 
the dough in spoonfuls on the top — the liquor 
should be cooked away so that the crust will not 
sink into it, but rest on the top of the meat and 
potatoes, and cook by the steam. Cover closely 
at once, and cook rapidly fifteen minutes with- 
out raising the cover. Another five minutes' 
cookiag should not harm the dumplings, if kept 
covered and boiling. Take up the dumplings 
and put in the warm oven at once, taking care 
that the cool air does not strike them suddenly. 
Add to the pie 2 teaspoonfuls of Worcestershire 
sauce and half a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, 
stir just enough to blend, turn into a deep serv- 
ing-dish with the dumplings laid carefully on 
the top. A cup of stewed and seasoned tomato, 
added just before the dumplings are put in, is 
a good addition. 

If there is too much of the gravy to p tur over 
the meat and potato, serve the remainder in a 
gravy-dish. 

Double the amount of dough needed for the 
pie made, and have the remainder rolled out at 
once and made into biscuit that can be baked 
for a dessert to be eaten with fruit. 



MEATS 57J 

Roast Veal 

Take a piece of loin, rib, or breast, not less 
than 5 or 6 pounds. It is not well to roast a 
smaller piece; it is likely to be dry and taste- 
less, since veal must be well done to be whole- 
some. And having less nutritive quality and 
flavor than almost any other meat, it requires 
especial care in cooking and seasoning to make 
it palatable or of much value as food. 

If a small quantity only is wanted, it is better 
to cook it in some other way, and there are 
many ways of using cold roast. It may be 
made into stews, ragouts, baked in pies, or 
served as entrees in croquettes, casseroles, tim- 
bales, etc. 

Wipe the piece to be roasted with a damp 
cloth, trim off any skin or objectionable edges, 
rub well with salt and pepper and a little pow- 
dered mixed sweet herbs, and dredge with flour. 
Put it in the roasting-pan and lay over the top 
thin scales of fat salt pork, skewering them in 
place, if necessary, with wooden toothpicks. 
The pork will flavor and baste the meat while 
cooking, but it is better to baste several times 
while cooking with the liquor in the pan. Pour 
half a cup of hot water in the pan and add just 
sufficient water, as it evaporates, to keep the 
bottom of the pan covered and prevent the flour 
and fat from burning. 



572 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Allow twenty minutes to a pound for roast- 
ing, with the oven at a quick heat, covering the 
top with buttered paper if it burns. When 
done take out on a hot platter, and make a 
gravy by adding hot water to the liquor in the 
pan, if necessary adding first a little more flour 
and stirring it until smooth. Salt more, if 
needed, and add a little Worcestershire sauce or 
a teaspoonful of horseradish. 

Stuffed Breast of Veai 

Make a stuffing of stale bread crumbs, 
chopped onion, chopped salt pork — or butter, 
if preferred ; season well with salt, pepper, and 
savory herbs and parsley, moistened sufficiently 
with hot water. Fill the cavity under the thick 
part of the breast with as much stuffing as can 
be forced in, and skewer it well to hold the stuff- 
ing in, or sew the edges together with small 
twine. 

Roast in a moderately hot oven, twenty min- 
utes to a pound, basting frequently with the 
water in the paii and melted butter. 

Fricadelles of Veal 

Take cold veal that has been cooked in any 
way. Trim off all skinny or gristly parts and 
' cut free from bone. Chop fine, add to each cup- 
ful of chopped meat % cupful of fine buttered 
bread crumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and 



MEATS 573 

kitchen bouquet or savory herbs ; moisten with 
a little stock or gravy, make it out in thin cakes, 
cutlet shapes, brush with egg, and sprinkle with 
fine crumbs. Saute in plenty of butter or nice 
drippings /Until well browned. 

Tomato sauce is one of the best accompani- 
ments. To make it, after removing the frica- 
delles to a hot platter, put in the frying-pan 
% cup of tomato pulp, % cup of white sauce, 
and season more with salt and pepper, if neces- 
sary. Add a dash of cayenne or paprika. Cook 
all together until smooth, and pour around the 
fricadelles. 

Lamb may be used instead of veal. 

A border of green peas or asparagus tips is 
a good garnish for this dish. 

Boiled Calves' Tongues 

Soak the tongues for an hour or more in cold 
water. Put them in a kettle and cover well 
with cold water. Bring quickly to, a boil and 
skim. Add, for each tongue, 1 medium-sized 
carrot scraped and sliced, 1 small white turnip, 
1 small onion stuck with 2 cloves; add to the 
whole a bunch of sweet herbs. Season with 
salt and pepper. Boil slowly two hours. Take 
them out and skin them. If they are to be 
served cold, return them to the liquor and leave 
them in it to cqol. 



574 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

They may be served hot with macaroni, 
spaghetti, or rice as a border. 

Breaded Calf's Brains 

Soak the brains in cold water until well 
bleached. Put them in a stewpan with a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a small onion, sliced, a 
blade of mace, 2 or 3 cloves, salt and pepper, a 
y^ glass of white wine, and sufficient water to 
cover. Let them simmer half an hour, and 
take them out to cool and drain. When quite 
cold, slice the brain in rather thin slices, dip 
them in ^^'g and seasoned bread crumbs, and' 
saute in butter or nice drippings. Serve as an 
entree garnished with parsley, or as a border to 
boiled rice or some delicate vegetable. 

Brain Sauce 

Take a calf's brains, clean, and soak an hour 
in cold water. Eemove the outer skin, and put 
them in a stewpan with enough cold water to 
nearly cover them; add a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice or vinegar and half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and simmer fifteen minutes; then skim 
them out and plunge in cold water for a few 
minutes. Drain, and chop them fine. 

Have a pint of white sauce or drawn butter, 
season it with lemon juice and finely minced 
parsley and % teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet ; 



MEATS 575 

add the chopped brains, and as soon as thor- 
oughly hot, serve. 

Serve with boiled calf's head or any dish that 
calls for a meat sauce. 

Baked Calf s Head 

Clean the head well. Put it in hot water 
enough to cover, and boil gently until the meat 
can be easily taken from the bones. Carefully 
remove all the nice bits of meat and cut or pull 
it apart into medium-sized pieces. Strain over 
it the water in which it was boiled. Season 
with salt and cayenije pepper, parsley, a few 
drops of onion juice and kitchen bouquet, and, 
if you like them, add a little clove, mace, and 
nutmeg. Add a good-sized lump of butter. 
There should be water enough to nearly cover 
the meat. 

Put it in the oven in a covered baking-dish, 
and bake until the meat is very tender. Take 
the meat out and arrange it on the platter in 
which it is to be served, and put it where it will 
keep hot. To the liquor in the baking-pan add 
3 well-beaten eggs and a wineglass of madeira 
or sherry wine. Have the liquor hot, but not 
boiling, and after adding the eggs, stir briskly 
until it thickens. 

As soon as it cooks to a creamy consistency 
pour over the meat, and serve at once. 



576 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAMF, 

Veal Fricassee 

Cut from the leg as many rather thin slices 
as are needed, or use any small pieces of the 
clear meat from other parts and cut them in 
nice slices. Have slices of salt pork fried until 
crisp, or 2 tablespoonfuls of beef drippings. 
Put the slices of veal in the hot fat, not as many 
at a time as to prevent browning on all sides. 
Keep turning the slices as fast as they brown 
on the outside. A few thin slices of onion fried 
with the meat are an improvement. 

Take out the veal, and while the fat is still 
hot stir into it a tablespoonful of flour, stirring 
until very smooth and of a rich brown color. 
Add a pint of boiling water, season with salt 
and pepper, a blade of mace, and a few drops 
of kitchen bouquet. Lay the slices of veal in 
this gravy and simmer twenty minutes, or until 
quite tender, and serve. 

Boiled rice, macaroni, or spaghetti are good 
to serve with veal cooked in this way. It may 
be served around a mound of well-seasoned 
boiled macaroni. 

Veal Croquettes with Mushrooms 

2 cupfuls cold veal, chopped ; 1/2 cupful finely 
chopped boiled ham, with a little of the fat ; % 
cupful good stock or meat gravy ; 1 small onion ; 
1 scant cupful bread crumbs ; 1 egg ; 1 teaspoon- 



MEATS 577 

ful salt; a little white pepj)er; a dash, df nut- 
meg or mace; 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce or 2 drops Tabasco sauce. 

Chop the onion fine and simmer it fifteen 
minutes in the stock or gravy. (Cream sauce 
will do if no stock is at hand.) Add this to the 
meat and the seasoning; when thoroughly 
mixed, add the bread crumbs and the beaten 
^■gg. Make out into egg or cylinder shapes, roll 
in beaten egg, then in crumbs, again in egg and 
crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat until a rich 
•brown. 

Lift them out in the f rying-basket and put on 
brown paper to drain a few minutes. Pile in 
the. centre* of a hot platter with a border of 
button mushrooms and the seasoned and 
slightly thickened sauce in which the mush- 
rooms were stewed. 

Veal Loaf 

3% pounds lean veal; % pound salt pork; 6 
soda crackers rolled fine or 1 cup fine bread 
crumbs; 2 eggs; 1 small onion, chopped fine; 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley; a little grated 
nutmeg; % teaspoonful kitchen bouquet; salt 
and pepper. 

Chop or grind the veal and pork, or have it 
done by the butcher. Mix the onion and sea- 
soning well with the meat ; add the crumbs and 



578 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

beaten egg. If too dry, add sufficient water to 
moisten. It should be sufficiently moist to 
retain its juiciness after baking. A good way 
is to moisten the crumbs before mixing, as some 
will absorb more than others, and the loaf is 
not good, if dry all through when done. 

Make into an oval-shaped loaf and bake in a 
pan not much larger than the loaf, but with 
sufficient room to hold liquor for basting. Pour 
a little hot water in the pan; sprinkle bread 
crumbs and butter over the top, or lay thin 
slices of salt pork or bacon over, and bake two 
hours in moderately hot oven, basting fre- 
quently with liquor in the pan. 

Broiled Calf's Liver 

Letting liver stand for half an hour in salted 
water, after slicing it thin, will draw out the 
blood. Parboiling in salted water before broil- 
ing will make it more delicate and tender. 
Drain off the water, wipe the slices, brush it 
with butter, and broil quickly on both sides. 

Or dip the slices in beaten egg and in fine 
bread crumbs, and pan-broil or saute in butter. 
When nicely browned and tender, remove to a 
hot platter, pour into the pan a half cupful of 
cream', and as soon as it boils add a half cupful 
of strained stewed tomato or 3 tablespoonfuls 
of tomato catsup and salt and pepper to taste. 



MEATS 579 

Stir briskly and pour the sauce around the 
.liver. 

Calf's Liver and Bacon 

Slice the liver thin and parboil five minutes 
in slightly salted water. Dry the slices, dust 
with pepper, and dredge lightly with flour. 
Cook thin slices of breakfast bacon until crisp. 
Eemove to a hot dish, and fry the liver in the 
bacon fat until nicely browned on both sides. 
Lay the slices on a hot platter and garnish with 
the crisp bacon. If carefully cooked, the fat 
in the pan will not be burned, and a nice gravy 
may be made by putting a teaspoonful of flour 
in the fat, stirring it until smooth. Then pour 
in gradually a half cupful of hot milk. Let it 
boil up, stirring constantly; seasqn with salt 
and pepper, and pour over the liver. 

Calf's Liver and Onions Sautded 

Take 1 pound of liver sliced half an inch 
thick. Pour boiling water over and let it par- 
boil — ^barely simmer — for five to ten minutes. 
Pour off the water and dry the slices on a nap- 
kin ; dust both sides with salt and pepper. Put 
2 spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and when 
hot lay the liver in and cook quickly until both 
sides are nicely browned. There is just the 
right degree of heat necessary to cook liver. It 
must not be cooked until hard and dry or 



580 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

burned, but it needs to be cooked all through. 
As soon as done remove the liver to a warm, 
platter, to keep hot. Into the pan put another 
spoonful of butter and a small, finely chopped 
onion. Let it cook for five or six minutes, stir- 
ring until a light-brown color. Add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice or wine vinegar, a 
tablespoonful' of tomato catsup or a teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce, and a little finely 
minced parsley. Put a spoonful of this sauce 
on top of each slice of liver. 

Serve around it a border of nicely browned 
potato balls or cakes, or small rice balls. 

Wiener Schnitzel (Viennese Veal Cutlets) 

Beat up an egg and well soak some veal cut- 
lets in it; dip them in bread crumbs and fry 
them in butter on both sides. As soon as they 
are cooked take them out, drain and lay them 
round a dish, place some grated horseradish 
and chopped anchovies in the centre, and serve 
with a sauce ' ' demiglace. ' ' The ' ' sauce demi- 
glace ' ' is made as follows : Take the trim- 
mings of the veal, put them in a saucepan with 
a little stock, onions, carrots, and a bouquet of 
herbs. Let all simmer together until the meat 
is in rags. Skim often. Pass all through a 
sieve, and clarify with the white of an egg well 
beaten. Strain again and place over the fire 



MEATS 581 



until the sauae is sufficiently thick. Serve with 
the cutlets. 

Minuten Fleisch 
Cut from the tender, juicy part of a leg of 
veal a pound and a half, in slices exceedingly 
thin, and from three to four inches square. 
Season each slice with salt and pepper, lay them 
in a deep dish, and pour over them enough wine 
to cover. When they have steeped and imbibed 
the wine, diist them with flour on bo.th sides, 
and put them into a stewpan with a little melted 
butter ; add white stock to reach to half an 
inch above the meat. Squeeze in the juice of a 
lemon, and simmer with the lid closed. The 
meat should not boil hard, or it will be spoiled. 
Time, three hours to steep in wine ; five minutes 
to simmer after it has come to the boil. Suffi- 
cient for four or five persons. 

Vinaigrette of Cold Meat 

Take any kind of cold dressed meat, cut it 
into neat slices, and put it upon a dish with cold 
potatoes cut into slices, hard-boiled eggs cut 
into quarters, and slices of beetroot. Season 
rather highly with pepper and salt, pour upon 
it oil and vinegar, in the proportion of 3 table- 
spoonfuls of oil to 2 of vinegar, and toss it 
lightly together with a fork. Sliced cucumber, 
chopped parsley, and finely minced onion may 



582 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

be added if liked, and a few drops of tarragon 
or chili vinegar may be mixed with tbe ordinary 
vinegar. Sometimes the various ingredients 
are sent to table prettily arranged in rings 
round a dish, with the colors contrasting, and 
they are mixed with the salad dressing at the 
moment of serving. A vinaigrette of cold 
boUed beef is excellent. 

Blanquette of Veal with Cucumbers 

Cut some cold veal into neat pieces about the 
size of a walnut and a quarter of an inch thick. 
Pare and quarter a large cucumber, and cut it 
into lengths of half an inch. Sprinkle a little 
salt upon these, and cover them with vinegar. 
Let them remain for half an hour. Drain them 
well, and dry them with a soft cloth. Dissolve 
a slice of fresh butter in a bright stewpan, and 
add a pinch of grated nutmeg and a small piece 
of sugar. Put in the slices of cucumber, and let 
them simmer gently till tender. Drain off the 
butter, pour some white sauce upon the cucum- 
ber, add the pieces of veal, and let all simmer 
gently together till the meat is quite hot. Place 
the veal on a dish, pour the sauce over, and gar- 
nish the dish with sippets. The white sauce 
should be made with nicely seasoned veal stock 
made from the veal bones, and thickened with 
white thickening. It will be improved by stew- 



MEATS 583 

ing onions and muslireoms in it to flavor it, but 
it will be very good without them. A little 
lemon juice may be stirred in at the last mo- 
ment. Time to stew the cucumber in the butter, 
about half an hour. 

Veal Liver PHU (to be Eaten Cold) 

Take 1 pound of calf's liver and 10 ounces 
of fat bacon. Mince these first separately, and 
afterwards together, and season the mixture 
with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Add 2 
tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, 2 ounces of 
finely minced lean ham, and a moderate-sized 
onion that has been sliced and browned in fat. 
Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and mix with 
them first the beaten yolks, and afterwards the 
well-whisked whites of 2 eggs. Line a mould 
with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the mince, 
place slices of bacon on the top, and bake the 
pate very gradually in a gentle oven. "When it 
is done enough it can be easily pierced quite 
through with a skewer. Let it get cold, turn it 
upon a dish, and garnish with parsley. Carve 
it in slices. 

Scalloped Sweetbreads 

After blanching, cut or break the sweetbreads 
into small pieces. Make a rich cream sauce, 
with a pint of hot cream, a level tablespoonful 
of flour, a tablespoonful of butter, and 1 egg; 



584 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

salt and pepper. Mix -this with the sweet- 
breads, and half fill a scallop-dish, sprinkle 
over a layer of buttered bread crumbs, fill the 
dish with the sweetbreads, put a layer of bread 
crumbs on the top, and bake until nicely 
browned. Or fill scallop-shells or paper cases 
with the sweetbreads, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and brown in a hot oven. 

Scalloped Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 

Prepare as in the foregoing recipe, add an 
equal amount of chopped and stewed mush- 
rooms, fill the Sicallop-dish or shells, cover with 
buttered crumbs, and brown as before. 

Sweetbreads with Spaghetti or Macaroni 
and Tomatoes 

Blanch the sweetbreads, lard them, and bake 
until nicely bi-owned, basting with a little rich 
brown stock. Mix boUed spaghetti with a rich 
cream sauce, or use spaghetti or macaroni that 
has been baked with cheese the day previous, 
Heat it very hot and make it into a flattened 
mound in the centre of a hot platter, and ar- 
range the hot sweetbreads on the top, pouring 
over any sauce that may be in the pan. Sur- 
round the whole with stuffed and baked toma- 
toes. 

This is excellent as a piece de resistance for 
an informal lunch or Sunday evening supper, 




RIBS OF BEEF— "ROAST" 



MEATS 585 . 

as it can nearly all be made ready beforehand. 
The tomatoes could be all prepared for the fill- 
ing in the morning and placed in the refrigera- 
tor, and the crumbs seasoned and mixed ready 
in another bowl. The sweetbreads should be 
blanched and larded, and these also put in the 
refrigerator. The spaghetti could be either 
boiled in the morning or baked the day before 
— a larger amount than needed for dinner being 
cooked and the remainder saved for the sweet- 
breads. 

Half an hour before the time for the meal 
have the oven hot; if there is a g9,s range, so 
much the better. Fill the tomatoes and put 
them in to bake; put the prepared sweetbreads 
also in the oven, which should be quite hot. 
While these are baking, set the pan containing 
the spaghetti and sauce into the oven, giving it 
just time to get thoraughly heated, or heat the 
macaroni or spaghetti in a saucepan or steamer 
on the top of the range. It then only remains 
to dish them when the tomatoes are done. With 
a tastily made salad, nut sandwichete or thin 
slices of bread and butter, which could also be 
prepared beforehand and put in the refrigera- 
tor, some fruit and cake or a made dessert of 
jellied or frozen fruit and tea or coffee, the 
gods and all their friends should be tempted 
to eat. 
38 



586 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Sweetbreads 

First soak sweetbreads in cold water for an 
hour or two, changing the water several times. 
Then parboil for five minutes in boiling water 
with a tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar, 
and throw into ice water to blanch. Let them 
lie in the ice water five minutes, then wipe dry, 
and put where they will get perfectly cold and 
firm, having first removed all the fibres and 
pipes possible. They may then be cooked in 
various ways and make a most delicious addi- 
tion to a lunch or informal supper, or may be 
served as an entree either by themselves or with 
mushrooms, tomatoes, asparagus tips, maca- 
roni, etc. 

Plain Broiled Sweetbreads 

After parboiling and blanching, boil gently 
for five minutes; split the sweetbreads length- 
wise, dust with salt and pepper, rub over with 
a little butter, and broil over clear coals, turn- 
ing often until both sides are a delicate brown. 
Lay them on a hot platter, spread with butter, 
squeeze a little lemon jaiee over them, and more 
salt and pepper if needed. Or serve with pars- 
ley butter poured over tiiena. 

Broiled Sweetbreads with Tomato Sauce 

After parboiling and blanching the sweet- 
breads, dust them with salt and pepper ; roll in 



MEATS 587 

■y . ' " — ■ ' ' — • ' 

beaten egg, then in fine bread crumbs; broil 
over, hot coals, or saute in hot butter until a 
golden brown. Have squares or rounds of deli- 
cate, crisp, well-buttered toast on a hot platter, 
put a portion of sweetbreads on each piece, and 
pour around them a hot tomato sauce. 

Broiled Sweetbreads with Stuffed Tomatoes 

Broil the sweetbreads after crumbing, then 
serve on a hot platter with a circle of stuffed 
tomatoes around them. A hearty diish for 
lunch or Sunday supper may be made by ar- 
ranging a mound of boil6d macaroni in the 
centre of the platter with the sweetbreads on 
top, with the tomatoes as a border. 

For this dish the sweetbreads may be either 
broiled, sauted, or stewed, and the macaroni 
may be cooked the day before and heated in the 
oven while the tomatoes are baking. 

Stewed Sweetbreads 

After blanching, separate the sweetbrea,ds, 
put in a saucepan, and cover with boiling salted 
water; add a little paprika, a tablespoon of 
lemon juice, and a dash of mace. Stew fifteen 
or twenty minutes, add a half cup of rich hot 
cream, and a teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
sfliooth with 2 teaspoonfuls of butter. Stir 
until the gravy is smooth and thick. Serve 
with points of erjsp golden toagt. 



588 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



Sweetbread Patties (Vol-au-Vents) 

After the sweetbreads have been parboiled 
and blanched, let them cool and drain. Cut 
them in small pieces, and put them in a sauce- 
pan, with a cupful of rich white stock to 2 good- 
sized sweetbreads; add a tablespoonful of 
butter, the juice of a lemon, a small piece of 
mace, a bit of grated nutmeg, a dash of paprika, 
2 or 3 cloves, and salt to taste. Let the sweet- 
breads simmer in this until tender, then lift 
them out and strain the sauce. Beat the yolks 
of 2 eggs with y^ of a cupful of rich cream. Add 
these slowly to the hot sauce, stirring briskly 
until it is rich and creamy, but do not let it 
boil. 

Add a half glassful of sherry or madeira 
wine ; return the sweetbreads to the sauce, and 
let them get thoroughly hot. Save ready patty 
shells or vol-au- vents of any. size desired; fill 
with the sweetbreads and sauce, and serve at 
once. Stewed mushrooms and French fried 
potatoes, or asparagus tips, are nice served 
with these. 

Sweetbread Croquettes 

Cut a cold blanched sweetbread in dice, add 
an equal amount of chopped mushrooms. 
Simmer a few minutes with a half cup of white 
sauce or stock ; let the mixture cool ; add 2 table- 



MEATS 589 



spoonfuls of seasoned bread crumbs; add a 
little paprika, and salt to taste. Make out into 
balls, roll in beaten egg and crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat until delicately browned; they will not re- 
quire more than five minutes to cook in the fat. 
Serve with them tomatoes stuffed and baked, 
and potatoes cut in balls with a scoop and fried 
in deep, hot fat until a golden brown. The po- 
tato balls may be served as a border for the 
croquettes, with sprigs of parsley as a garnish. 

Braised or Smothered Sweetbreads 

Soak and blanch the sweetbreads, and lard 
them with strips of salt pork or bacon. Put 
them in a shallow, covered baking-dish; pour 
over them enough rich brown stock to nearly 
cover them ; sprinkle lightly with salt and white 
pepper, add a dash of mace. 

Cover closely, and bake in a moderately hot 
oven for half an hour. 

Serve with macaroni or spaghetti or boiled 
rice. 

Fried Sweetbreads 

Soak the sweetbreads for an hour, plunge 
them into boiling water for five minutes, and 
throw them into cold water till cool. Cut them 
in slices, egg and bread-crumb them, dip them 
in clarified butter, bread them again, and fry 
in plenty of hot fat till they are brightly 



590 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

browned on both sides. Drain them, and then 
dish on toast, pouring cucumber sauce or 
maitre d 'hotel sauce upon them. Time to fry 
the slices, about ten minutes. 

Larded Sweetbreads h la Financi&re 

Soak 4 sweetbreads, boil them quickly till 
they are firm but not at all hard, cool them, 
then lard them evenly and thickly with thin 
strips of fat badon. Butter a baking-dish, and 
spread a layer of sliced carrots, onions, and 
celery at the bottom. Lay the sweetbreads 
upon the vegetables, and pour round them as 
much stock as will bai'ely come up to the lard- 
ing. Put them in a sharp oven, and bake until 
done enough, basting them frequently with the 
liquor. When they are done enough, and the 
surface is brightly browned, dish them as fol- 
lows : Put a croustade in a dish, and fill it 
with Toulouse or fihanciere ragout. Place the 
sweetbreads against the sides of the croustade, 
and garnish the dish as prettily as possible. If 
liked, Toulouse ragout may be used for the 
croustade instead of financiere ragout, and then 
the dish becomes Sweetbread, a la Toulouse. 
The croustade may be made as follows : Take 
an oval loaf one day old. Cut off the round 
top, and scoop out the crumb of the loaf, leav- 
ing three-quarters of an inch of bread all round, 



MEATS 591 



and at the bottom. Pare away tlie crust and 
dip tlie case into oiled butter. Put it in the 
oven till it begins to harden, then again dip it 
in butter, and place it again in the oven till it 
acquires a little color, when it will be ready for 
use. Time to bake the sweetbreads, about half 
an hour. 

MEAT PIES 

NicoDEMUS Boffin : "Now, Weprg, just cast your eye 
along' these shelves, and if you see anything you take a 
fancy to — have it down ! " 

Silas Wegq {promptly): "Do my eyes deceive me — or 
is that a weal-and-hammer ? " 

—Charles Dickens. 

The meat pie is often a useful adjunct to a 
meal, when the marketman fails to deliver in 
time what was intended for the day's dinner, 
or to make a variety on the advent of unex- 
pected guests. It is also a very useful way of 
using the remnants of cold meat or fowl. 

Chicken pie used to be invariably served on 
Thanksgiving Day in many New England 
families, and memory brings to mind one table 
where it was the larger part of the Thanks- 
giving morning breakfast ! 

Chicken Pie 

For a large pie take 2 nice chickens ; cut them 
at the joints, put them in salted boiling water. 



592 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

and parboil until tender. Lift them out and 
cut them up as for a fricassee. Some of the 
larger bones should be taken out. 

Make a good pastry, and line a deep earthen 
baking-dish or " nappy " with a rather thin 
layer of the .paste. Roll out the remainder, 
spread with butter, sprinkle the butter with 
flour, and roll it up. Eoll this out again about 
a half an inch thick, and cut a strip and lay 
around the edge of the dish, first wetting the 
dough in the dish with milk to make it adhere. 
Fill the dish with the parboiled chicken. / It is 
a good plan to put a good-sized bone in the 
centre of the dish to raise the top crust from 
the chicken and give more room for the liquor. 
Or a small cup may be inverted in the centre, 
cutting an X in the crust and bringing the 
points up around the sides of the cup to hold 
the gravy. 

Season the liquor in which the chicken was 
cooked with pepper and more salt if necessary. 
Add a teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth with 
a little of the liquor. Let this boil up suffi- 
ciently to allow the flour to thicken, pour it over 
the chicken, having enough to nearly cover it. 
Put generous pieces of butter over the top, and 
cover with the paste. ' Cut slashes in the cover 
to allow the escape of steam, moisten the edges 
of the pastry lining well with milk to ensure 



MEATS 593 

the adhering of the cover, press together and 
trim the edge not too closely, pushing the paste 
up well together, rather thickening it at the 
edges. Put small bits of butter on the top, and 
bake two hours in a moderate oven. 

Beefsteak Pie 

Eump-steak is good for this purpose. 2 
pounds will be sufficient for a half a dozen 
people. Cut the steak into long, narrow strips ; 
lay a strip of fat on each, dust with salt and 
pepper, add a very little shredded onion or 
shallot, and just a suspicion of mace. Dredge 
lightly with flour, and roll each strip. Lay 
these in the bottom of a baking-dish having the 
edge lined with paste; pour in sufficient water 
to cover the meat, add a little more seasoning 
and a dredging of flour. A few chopped mush- 
rooms or oysters will add greatly to the flavor 
of the pie. Cover with a crust rolled a little 
more than a half-inch thick, slash the top to 
allow the escape of steam, put bits of butter on 
the top, and bake in a moderate oven for two 

hours. 

Chicken Patties 

Pick the meat from a cold chicken, and mince 
it very finely. To every 6 ounces of chicken al- 
low 3 ounces of lean ham also minced, a piece of 
butter about the size of an egg rolled in flour, a 
small teacupful of cream or new milk and the 



594 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

same of white stock, 2 pinclies of salt, 1 of pep- 
per, % of a small nutmeg grated, the thin rind 
of 14 of a lemon finely grated, and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice. A few minced mushrooms 
are a great improvement. Put these into a 
saucepan, and stir them gently for ten minutes, 
taking care that they do not burn. Line some 
patty-pans with good crust. Put a piece of 
paper crumpled up or a crust of bread into each 
to support the top while baking, and place a 
cover of crust over it. When sufficiently baked, 
take off the top crust, remove the bread or the 
paper, 3 parts fill the patty with the mixture, 
replace the cover, being careful not to break it, 
and fasten it with white of egg. 

Giblet Pie 

An English Recipe 

The giblets of 1 goose or 2 ducks ; 1 pound of 
tender beefsteak; 2 small onions; thyme and 
parsley; salt and pepper. 

Wash the giblets and put them with the steak, 
cut in pieces, in a stewpan with cold water 
enough to cover, and as soon as the water be- 
gins to boil add the sliced onion and the herbs, 
salt, and pepper. 

- Simmer gently for an hour and a half or two 
hours, remove the herbs and let the giblets cool. 
Line the sides of a pie-dish with a good paste. 



MEATS 595 

lay in the giblets and steak, add more salt and 
pepper if needed, pour over enough of the 
gravy in which the meat was stewed to fill the 
dish about % full. Add bits of butter, and 
cover with the crust. Brush the top with butter 
and bake three-fourths of an hour in a hot oven. 

Mutton Pie 

A very good family pie is made with the re- 
mains of a cold leg, loin, or any other joint of 
mutton from which nice neat slices of rather 
lean meat can be cut. These should be put with 
a good seasoning, in alternate layers with 
thinly sliced potatoes, into a pie-dish, commenc- 
ing at the bottom with some of the meat, and 
finishing at the top with potatoes. Parsley, 
savory herbs, onion, or shallot, with a little 
mace, white pepper, and salt may be used at 
discretion. A cupful of good gravy from the 
meat should be poured into the pie before the 
crust is put on. Suet is generally used for the 
crust. Time, an hour to bake. 



POULTRY 

Baked Chicken 

Clean and wash, tlie chicken and cover with 
'thin slices of ham or bacon. Bind the ham 
on with fine cotton cord, then lay upon the grat- 
ing of your covered roaster; pour a cupful of 
hot stock over it, scatter parsley and onion juice 
over it ; cover tightly, then cook slowly, allowing 
twenty-five minutes to the pound. Baste three 
times, and when it seems tender by testing with 
a fork, unwrap, and baste with butter ; then 
dredge with flour and let it stand in the oven 
until brown. 

Thicken the gravy with browned flour, season, 
and let it come to a boil. 

Fried Chicken 

Singe the chicken, divide into pieces, and cut 
the joints apart. Wash well and dry on a cloth. 
Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. 

Fry 6 slices of fat salt pork m a large fry- 
mg-pan until they are crisp. When fried, take 
the pieces out and put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter in the pan, and when the fat is very hot, lay 
the chicken in and fry slowly until tender and a 
nice brown. Transfer the chicken to a hot plat- 

596 



POULTRY 597 

ter and turn off all of the gravy but two table- 
spoonfuls. Thicken this with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, and when well mixed together pour in 
2 cups of fresh mUk ; season with salt and pep- 
per and a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley. 
Boil for one minute, then pour into a gravy- 
boat. 

Baked Fried Chicken 
Clean and wash young chickens, cut at every 
joint, and divide the breast into 2 pieces. Lay 
in salad-oil and lemon juice for half an hour; 
drain, roll in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs. 
Lay upon the grating of your covered roaster, 
pour a little gravy in the underneath part, and 
cover closely. Cook for three-quarters of an 
hour, basting frequently with butter and gravy. 
Uncover, and brown. Garnish with parsley. 

Scalloped Chicken 

Boil 1 young chicken in salted water until 
tender. When cold, remove the skin and cut 
the meat into small pieces. Melt 1 heaping 
tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, add 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and when well mixed 
together add 2 cupfuls of rich milk and season 
with salt and a dash of pepper. Cook for about 
five minutes. Butter a pudding-dish, put a 
layer of the sauce in the bottom, then a layer of 
fine bread crumbs, then the chicken, then some 



598 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

sliced mushrooms. Repeat the process until the 
dish is filled. Cover the tops with half a cupful 
of bread crumbs, moistened with butter, and 
bake for about twenty minutes in a hot oven. 
Send to the table in the dish it was cooked in. 

Pressed Chicken 

Clean as usual ; divide the breast and the back 
into 2 pieces and break apart all of the joints. 
Put the pieces in a kettle with just enough water 
to cook without scorching. Cover tightly and 
cook until the meat falls from the bones and 
the broth has nearly boiled away. Season with 
salt, and pepper ; remove from the fire, take out 
the chicken, and return the kettle, with the 
broth, to the fire; chop the chicken into small 
pieces ; season well, pour in the broth, mix thor- 
oughly together, then turn into a mould or 
bread-tin. 

This will jelly when cold and can be sliced for 
the table. 

Chicken Terrapin 

Chop 1 cold roasted chicken fine. Put 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with 2 of flour, 
and when well blended add a cupful of cream. 
Cook until it thickens, then add the chopped 
chicken and a parboiled sweetbread. Season 
with salt and pepper and let it simmer slowly 
for fifteen minutes. When ready to serve, add 



POULTRY 599 



the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, mixed with 2 
tablespoonfuls of milk, and 1 wineglassful of 
sherry. Garnish with hot boiled rice laid 
around the stew. 

Chicken Curry 

Clean and cut up the chicken and place it in 
a saucepan with boiling water, 2 onions, and a 
bouquet of herbs. Cover, and cook until ten- 
der ; season with salt and pepper. Melt 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with 2 of flour. 
Cook two minutes ; add half a tablespoonful of 
curry powder and cook two minutes longer. 
Add the strained broth and cook until smooth. 
Arrange the chicken on a hot platter and gar- 
nish with boiled rice. 

Fricasseed Chicken 

Clean and wash the chicken, break every joint 
apart and divide the breast and back in 2 pieces 
each. Place the pieces in a pot; add a little 
water, some minced onion, parsley, and chopped 
fat pork. Cover closely, and place over a slow 
fire until tender. Lift the meat out with a split 
spoon, placing the white meat at one end of the 
platter and the dark at the other end. Place the 
platter in an open oven or over hot water while 
you make the gravy. To do this, pour the 
gravy into a bowl and set in iced water until the 
fat rises. Skim, return to the pot, and add a 



600 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

cupful of hot milk which has been thickened 
with a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into 1 of 
flour. Add a pinch of soda, and let it boil for 
one minute. Now pour the gravy into a dish 
containing 2 well-beaten eggs, and when thor- 
oughly blended pour over the chicken. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Truss a young, plump chicken as for roasting. 
Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter into a frying- 
pan, and when hot add a bay leaf, a sliced car- 
rot and onion, and a sprig of thyme. Let the 
vegetables cook until they become slightly 
browned, then put them into a casserole with 
the chicken; pour in a pint of well-seasoned 
stock; cover, and cook for forty-five minutes in 
a hot oven. At the end of that time drop in a 
dozen potato balls and a dozen mushrooms; 
season to taste, uncover, and set in the oven to 
brown. Sprinkle with minced parsley before 
serving, and send to the table in the casserole. 

A Pilau of Chicken 

Wash a broiler or young plump chicken; 
joint, and lay in a marinade of salad-oil and 
lemon juice for half an hour. Fry a sliced 
onion in 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. Drain the 
chicken, but do not wipe the pieces, and when 
the onion has begun to brown, lay the chicken 



POULTRY 601 

in the pan and fry for ten minutes, turning of- 
ten. Empty the. contents of the frying-pan into 
a broad-bottomed pot; pour in 1 cupful of weak 
stock and 1 of strained tomato juice. Cook 
gently until the chicken, is tendei;, then take it 
up and set in the oven to keep warm. Return 
the gravy to the fire and add three-quarters of a 
cupful of rice which has soaked in cold water 
for an hour. Cook fast until the rice is soft, 
then put the chicken back into the pot, and when 
thoroughly mixed together heap upon a heated 
platter and sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the 
top. 

Chicken Stuffed with Oysters 

Clean and wash the chicken, then fill the body 
with small oysters which have been dipped in 
salted and peppered melted butter. Sew up in 
netting or cheesecloth and boil, allowing about 
twenty-five minutes to the pound. Unwrap, 
wash with butter and lemon juice, and pour a 
few spoonfuls of oyster sauce over them, the 
rest into a boat. 

Chicken Timbales 

Put a cupful of uncooked white meat through 
a meat-grinder, then rub to a paste with a 
wooden spoon. Put a cupful of milk and 1 of 
bread crumbs into a saucepan and cook until 
smooth. Remove from the fire, and when it is 
39 



602 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

cold turn over the chicken, stirring all the time. 
Add a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pep- 
per, and 5 tablespoonfuls of cream. Press 
through a sieve, and add gradually the well- 
beaten whites of 5 eggs; put the mixture into 
small greased timbale-nioulds ; stand the moulds 
in a pan of hot water, cover with oiled paper, 
and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with plain cream sauce and peas. 

Roast Turkey 

Singe and wipe the turkey with a cloth ; draw 
it, preserving the liver and gizzard, but be care- 
ful not to break the gall-bag. Wash well, having 
a little soda dissolved in the water. Fill the 
body with bread, oyster, or chestnut stuffing. 
Sew up the body and the neck ; bind the wings 
and legs snugly to the body, and if the turkey 
is scrawny lay thin slices of fat salt pork on the 
breast. Now lay it on the grating of your cov- 
ered roaster ; pour in a cupftil of boiling water, 
then cover and bake for two or three hours, ac- 
cording to the size of the fowl. When nearly 
done, remove the cover and wash with butter, 
then dredge with flour and set in the oven to 
brown. Dish the turkey on a heated platter, 
and set in the open oven to keep warm while 
you make the gravy. Thicken the contents of 
the dripping-pan with a tablespoonful of 



POULTRY 603 

browned flour, season with salt and pepper, and 
add the finely chopped giblets. Boil one minute, 
then pour into a gravy-boat. 

Serve cranberry-sauce with turkey if pos- 
sible. 

Bread Stuffing for Turkey 

To have good dressing you must have light 
bread. Slice the bread in thick slices, then put 
in the oven to dry. Grate with a coarse grater, 
and to every cupful of crumbs allow a table- 
spoonful of minced pork. Season with salt, 
pepper and sage, and moisten very slightly with 
milk. 

Oyster Stuffing 

Make a stuffing of bread cruihbs, season with 
parsley, thyme, and onion juice, and moisten 
with melted butter. Add 2 dozen small chopped 
oysters. 

Chestnut Stuffing 

Boil 1 quart of chestnuts, shell and peel them. 
Mash them smooth, and rub into them 2 table- 
spoonfuls of soft butter. Season with salt and 
white pepper, and stuff the turkey with this as 
you would with any other kind of dressing. 

Chicken-and-Rice Pudding 

Out the meat from the remains of a cold fowl, 
and take-half its weight in ham. Free it from 



604 -MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

skin and gristle, and pound it in a mortar, with, 
a little salt, white pepper, and pounded mace. 
To 1 pound of fowl, and half a pound of ham, 
allow a cupful of rice. Boil this in some nicely 
flavored stock till it is sufficiently cooked, then 
drain it, and add to it a cupful of new milk 
and the pounded meat. Stir these well to- 
gether. 

Put the mixture into a buttered mould, dredge 
a little flour over the top, tie it in a floured cloth, 
and boil it for an hour, taking care that the 
water in the saucepan does not reach as high as 
the top of the mould. Serve with mushroom or 
oyster sauce. Sufficient for six persons. 

Roasted Capon with Cream Stuffing 

Singe and clean a fine capon. Boil the liver, 
and mince it as finely as possible. Pour a little 
cream over 1 cupful of finely grated bread 
crumbs. Let them soak for half an hour. 
Shred finely 4 ounces of suet, 1 teaspoonful of 
scalded parsley, and 4 or 5 button mushrooms 
cut small and fried. Mix these well together 
with a little pepper and salt, and add the yolks 
of 2 eggs. Stuff the capon with the mixture, 
truss and roast in hot oven, basting continually. 
Serve with sauce flavored with chopped gher- 
kins. Time to roast, one hour. Sufficient for, 
four or five persons. 



POULTRY 605 



Rdti de Pauvre Homme , 

Take a fine pullet or capon, tlie fattest pro- 
curable. Make a force-meat, consisting of some 
finely chopped sausage meat, raw veal, and lean 
ham, cock's kidneys and combs, dried artichoke 
bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, some shred pars- 
ley, a little lemon thyme and sweet basil, 1 
anchovy washed, boned, and chopped fine — the 
whole chopped and well mixed together, sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, and a little grated nut- 
meg, with a good lump of fresh butter well in- 
corporated with it. With this force-meat fill the 
fowl by the vent, which sew up afterwards. 
Saturate with butter or olive-oil three or four 
sheets of writing-paper, and carefully dredge 
the fowl with flour. Envelop the bird in the 
paper two layers thick, and cover the whole with 
another layer slightly buttered. Bury the bird 
thus prepared in hot wood-ashes until it is 
cooked, or put it in a range oven, covered with 

dish, which must exclude the air from beneath. 

Kuwab Fowl 

Put 4 cloves, 1 drachm of pounded ginger, 1 
drachm of cayenne, and half an ounce of cori- 
ander-seed in a mortar. Pound these until quite 
smooth, and mix with them' 3 small onions, finely 
\ninced. Divide a small chicken into neat 
joints; rub them inside and out with the mix- 



606 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

ture, and put them into a frying-pan, with % of 
a pound of sweet butter. Turn them about con- 
stantly, and when they are brightly browned all 
over, and sufficiently cooked, squeeze over them 
the strained juice of 1 lemon, and serve as hot 
as possible. Time to cook, half an hour. Suffi- 
cient for two or three persons. 

Indian Burdwan 

A very savory and highly approved Indian 
dish. The joints of a parboiled fowl are gener- 
ally used for this dish, but if necessary the re- 
mains of chicken or fowls that have been served 
before, and even rabbit, veal, or lamb may be 
warmed up in the sauce, for which the following 
is the recipe : Peel and chop very finely 4 shal- 
lots and 1 onion. Put them into a stewpan with 
a small cup of good stock, 1 tablespoonful of the 
essence of anchovies, a little cayenne, and 1 
ounce of butter rolled in flour. Stir over the 
fire until the sauce is ready to boil, then put it 
aside to simmer till the onions are done, adding 
a small cupful of mixed Indian pickles, cut into 
less than %-iQch pieces, 1 tablespoonful of chili 
vinegar, and 1 or 2 glasses of wine, madeira 
or sherry. Sunmer the sauce to make the 
pickles tender, and pour in the wine when the 
fowl is ready to be stewed. Skin and lay the 
fowl in neat pieces into the stewpan with the 



POULTRY 607 



sauce, and if the fowl has been only parboiled, 
stew it gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, but 
for a thoroughly cooked fowl serve as soon as 
it is ready to boil, with the juice of a fresh 
lime. Rice is sometimes served with Burdwan 
as with Gurry. 



GAME 

Duck. should be cooked quickly to be well 
flavored; they should be served in a hot dish, 
and the plates should also be heated and ready 
before the ducks are done. 

Roasted Canvas-back Duck 

Dress a good fat duck, singe it and wipe well ; 
put a pinch of salt inside ; run in the head from 
the end to the back; truss the duck, and lay in 
a roasting-pan. Sprinkle with salt, and cook 
in a fairly quick oven for twenty minutes if 
liked rare,-— 'for thirty if preferred well done. 
Place on a well-heated dish; untruss, and pour 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling hot white broth, 
and serve with a garnish of slices of hot fried 
hominy and a dish of currant jelly. These di- 
rections apply equally well to red-head and mal- 
lard ducks. 

Broiled Canvas-back Duck 

After the duck has been dressed, singed, and 
wiped thoroughly, split it through the back, but 
without completely separating the pieces. 

Season with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and y^ 

608 



GAME 609 

saltspoonf ul of pepper, and roll the duck well in 
1 tablespoonful of olive-oil. 

Broil for ten minutes on each side, or longer 
if liked well done. Place it on a hot dish and 
cover with y^, gill of maitre d 'hotel butter sauce, 
add a bunch of watercress for decoration, and 
serve very hot. 

Etiddy ducks are cooked in the same way; 
melted butter may be substituted for the oil. 

Roast Ruddy Duck 

Have a fat duck dressed, singed, and wiped 
carefully; sprinkle a little salt inside, and draw 
the head through the opening at the base of the 
neck ; sprinkle the outside with salt, and lay in a 
roasting-pan ; bake in a moderately quick oven 
for fifteen minutes, and longer if desired well 
done. Take it up and untruss, place it on a hot 
dish and pour inside a little hot white broth. 
Cut quickly in slices, and serve with a garnish 
of fried hominy and currant jelly. 

Broiled Teal Duck 

Have 3 fat teal prepared for cooking, and 
take off the heads. Split into halves without 
completely dividing, and season with a salt- 
spoonful of salt, half as much pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of olive-oil. EoU them well in 
the oil and broil over a clear but not too hot 
fire, for ten minutes on each side. 



6J0 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Have ready in a hot dish half a dozen slices 
of toast ; lay half a teal on each slice, and cover 
with half a gill of maitre d 'hotel butter sauce. 
Serve hot, with a garnish of watercress. 

Roast Teal 

Prepare for cooking as many ducks as de- 
sired, and cut off heads and feet. Put inside 
each bird a saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of butter. 

Put them in a dripping-pan with "an onion, 
bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes, basting 
four or five times; add more' butter if needed. 
While they are cooking, chop an onion fine, and 
pult it in a tablespoonful of butter over the fire; 
when the butter browns, add a tablespoonful of 
flour; stir till smooth; when brown, pour in a 
pint of boiling water and port wine in equal 
parts; add a teaspoonful of salt and a salt- 
spoonful pepper, and a dash of grated nutmeg ; 
stir till the satfce boils, and pour in the dripping 
from the roasted birds.' Season the birds with 
salt, and serve on a hot dish. 

Salmi of Duck 

Take the giblets of a duck, stew them gently 
in veal gravy seasoned with cayenne, 3 finely 
shred shallots, and some pepper and salt. 
Roast the duck, cut it up, and lay it in a stew- 
pan with the gravy. Simmer till quite hot, then 



' GAME 6JI 

squeeze a bitter orange into the sauce, strain it 
over the diick, and send to table hot. More 
seasoning may be added for the English palate. 
Salmis are great favorites with French epi- 
cures; they are a species of moist devil, suffi- 
ciently piquant, as a rule, to please a French- 
man's taste. Time: twenty minutes to roast; 
twenty minutes to stew. Sufficient for four or 
five persons. 

Roast Goose 
A roast goose is generally filled with sage- 
and-onion stuffing. The way in which this is 
made must depend upon the taste of those who 
have to eat it. If a strong flavor of onion is 
liked, the onions should be chopped raw. If 
this is not the case, they should be boiled in 1, 2, 
or 3 waters, and mixed with a smaller or 
larger proportion of bread crumbs. It should 
be remembered, when bread crumbs are used, 
room should be allowed for swelling. Truss the 
goose firmly, tie the openings securely, put into 
a hot oven, and baste it plentifully until done 
enough. A goose is both unwholesome and un- 
palatable if insufficiently cooked. Take it tip, 
remove the skewers and fastenings, pour a little 
gravy into it, and send some good griavy and 
either apple or tomato sauce to table with it. 
Garnish with lemon. Time, from an hour and 
a half to two hours and a half. 



612 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Goose in Jelly, or Duck in Jelly 

Put the goose in a deep stewpan,/and barely 
cover it with clean stock, or water. Put with 
it 1 dessertspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of 
pepper, 2 large onions, 2 bay leaves, 2 or 3 
sprigs of lemon thyme and sweet basil, with a 
small piece of tarragon. Put the cover on the 
saucepan, and simmer gently, until the meat 
parts easily fall from the bones. Take out the 
goose, drain it from the gravy, remove the 
bones, -which may be returned to the saucepan 
and boiled a little longer, and cut the meat into 
convenient-sized pieces. If the gravy requires 
it,add a little more pepper and salt. Skimoff the 
fat, strain the gravy through a j ally-bag, and mix 
with an ounce of good gelatine, which has been 
soaked in cold water for half an hour or more. 
Put a little of the jelly into the bottom of the 
mould. Let it set, then put in any pretty orna- 
mental devices, such as hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
beetroot, pickles, etc.; pour a little more jelly 
over these, and, when it is stiff, put in the pieces 
of meat, leaving room for the jelly to flow be- 
tween them. Let the dish remain until the next 
day, then turn out, and garnish according to 
taste. Time to simmer the goose, two hours, or 
a little more. Sufficient for a breakfast, lunch- 
eon, or supper dish. A couple o^ ducks may be 
prepared in this way instead of a goose. 



GAME 6J3 

Pate of Foies Gras 

These pates, so highly esteemed by epicures, 
are made at Strasburg, and thence exported to 
various parts. They are prepared from the 
livers of geese, which have been tied down for 
three or four weeks to prevent them moving, 
and forcibly compelled to swallow, at intervals, 
a certain amount of fattening food. When they 
have become so fat that they would die in a 
short time, they are killed, and their livers, 
which have become very rich, fat, and pale dur- 
ing the process, are used for the above purpose. 
These pates are very expensive. A good imita- 
tion of them may be made without subjecting 
the unfortunate geese to the cruelties described, 
by following the directions here given. Take 
the livers from 3 fine fat geese, such as are ordi- 
narily brought to market, and in drawing the 
birds be careful not to break the gall-bag, as the 
contents would impart a bitter taste to the 
livers. Carefully remove any yellow spots there 
may be upon them, and lay the livers in milk for 
six or eight hours to whiten ; cut them in halves, 
and put 3 halves aside fbr force-meat. Soak, 
wash, and scrub, and peel % of a pound of truf- 
fles, carefully preserving the cuttings. Slice 
Vs of them into narrow strips, like lardoons, 
and Slick them into the remainder of the livers 
% of an inch apart ; sprinkle over them a little 



614 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

pepper, salt, and spice, and put them in a cool 
place until the force-meat is made. Mince finely, 
first separately, and afterwards together, 1 
pound of fresh bacon, Vg of the truffles, the 
halves of the livers that were put away for the 
purpose, 2 shallots, and 8 or 10 button mush- 
rooms ; season the mixture with plenty of pep- 
per and salt, 2 or 3 grates of nutmeg, and % 
saltspoonful of powdered marjoram, and keep 
chopping until it is quite smooth. Make the 
paste according to the directions given in paste 
for raised pies. Cover the bottom of the pie 
with thin rashers of ham, fat and lean together ; 
spread evenly on these % of the force-meat, then 
put in the 3 livers, with the slices of truffle stuck 
in them, and ^.fterwards the remainder of the 
force-meat. Intersperse amongst the contents 
of the pie the remaining y^ of a pound of truf- 
fles, and cover the whole with 2 or 3 more 
slices of ham ox bacon. Put the cover on the 
pie, ornament as fancy dictates, brush it over 
with beaten egg, make a hole in the centre for 
the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Time to bake, two hours or more. Suffi- 
cient for a dozen persons. 

Braised Hare 

Stuff the hare with a suitable force-meat. 
Sew it up securely, and lay slices of bacon on it. 



GAME 6(5 

put it into a braising-pan, with 2 finely minced 
shallots, a scraped carrot, 4 button mush- 
rooms, or, in place of these, 1 tablespoonful of 
mushroom catsup, and 1 pint of good stock. 
Place 3 ounces of butter on the hare, put the lid 
on the pan, and simmer gently for three hours 
or more. Strain the gravy, thicken it with a 
dessertspoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a 
little cold water ; add 1 glassful of sherry, ma- 
deira, or claret; simmer a few minutes longer, 
and serve. Send red currant jelly to table with 
the hare. Sufficient for six or eight persons. 

Hare Pepper (German, Haasen Pfeffer) 

Cut the hare into small coiivenient-si^d 

joints. Fry these in hot butter uijtil nicely 

browned, and with theni 1 onion, sliced, and 3 

ounces of bacon, cut into dice. Take out the 

hare, etc., while you brown 2 tablespoonfuls of 

flour in the butter. Add gradually li/^ pints of 

water or stock, and, when it is smoothly mixed, 

put in the pieces of hare, 6 or 8 peppercorns, 

the rind of % lemon, 4 or 5 cloves, and the 

gravy from the dish in which the hare lay. 

Simmer ge»tly for an }iqw or more. Put the 

pieces of hare vpAfO a di^h, strain the gravy over 

them, and garnish with sliced lemon. When the 

hindmost part of the hare has bp^n already 

served, the inferior joints are excellent cooked 



616 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

thus. The head should be split in two, and the 
liver cut into 2 or 8 pieces. SuflBcient for three 
or four persons. 

Belgian Hare, Stuffed and Roasted. 

First singe and wipe the hare carefully. 
Then put into it a chestnut stuflSng which has 
been prepared beforehand. . Sew it up and put 
into the roasting-pan. Add to it 1 teaspoonful 
of pepper and about y2 cupful of stock. Put it 
into a quick oven and baste every ten minutes. 
Time for baking, one hour and a half. The 
hare should frequently be turned while in the 
oven. Currant or guava jelly is nice to serve 
with this dish. The vegetables may be peas or 
asparagus tips. 

Baked Partridge (a I'ltalienne) 

Pluck arid truss a brace of partridges as if 
for roasting, and put into each bird a f orce-mf at 
made as follows : Grate % ounce of stalie bread 
into very fine crumbs. Season these with salt 
and white pepper, and % dozen grates of nut- 
meg ; work in with the fingers 1 ounce of butter, 
and add 1 teaspoonfulof finely minced parsley, 
and 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Dip 2 sheets 
of note-paper into some pure salad-oil; peel, 
mince finely, and mix thoroughly 3 good-sized 
mushrooms, 1 moderate-sized carrot, 1 small 
onion, 2 tablespoonfiils of pa,rsley leaves, and 



GAME 6J7 

% dozen leaves of thyme, with. 2 or 3 truffles, if 
these are obtainable. Divide the minced vege- 
tables into 2 equal portions, and spread them 
upon the paper, lay the partridges upon them, 
and cover the breasts with fat bacon, tied se- 
curely round with twine, and fasten the paper. 
Lay the birds side by side, breasts uppermost, 
in a deep pan, cover the partridges closely, bake 
in a good, oven, and baste once or twice during 
the process. When they are done enough, takei, 
off the paper and the bacon, put the birds on a 
hot dish, and pour over them a sauce made as 
follows: Put % a pint of good stock into a 
saucepan, with an onion, the trimmings of the 
mushrooms and truffles, a slice of carrot, and a 
little salt and pepper if required. Boil quickly 
for half an hour, then strain the sauce, thicken 
it with 1 dessertspoonful of flour, add a dessert- 
spoonful of browning, 2 tablespoonfuls of claret, 
and the minced vegetables which covered the 
partridges ; boil up once, and serve. Time, from 
thirty to forty minutes to bake the birds, if of 
moderate size. 

Roast Plover 

Pluck a brace of plovers without drawing 
them, and wipe them well outside with a damp 
cloth. Truss them with the legs close to the, 
body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs; 

40 



6J8 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

bring the head round under the wing. Put them 
into a hot oven. Lay in the pan slices of toast, 
1 slice for each bird, first moistening it in good 
gravy, and baste the plovers liberally. A few 
minutes before they are done dredge a little 
flour over them, and let them be nicely frothed. 
Serve upon the toast. A little melted butter 
may be sent to table in a tureen. Time to roast 
the birds, fifteen tp twenty minutes. Sufficient 
for two persons. 

Pigeon Stuffed and Roasted (German Method) 

Pluck and draw 2 young freshly killed 
pigeons. Open, scald, and clean the gizzard, 
and mince it with the liver and heart very 
finely. Mix with the mince the crumb of a roll 
which has been soaked in cold milk and pressed 
dry, and add a little salt and cayenne, a shallot 
chopped small, and a tablespoonful of shred 
parsley. If the flavor of the onion and the 
parsley is objected to, a little bacon and a pinch 
of powdered mace may be substituted for them. 
Bind the force-meat together with yolk of egg, 
and fill the crop with it between the flesh and 
the neck. The skin must be cut and raised 
carefully with the fingers, and then sewn or tied 
securely with thread. Dip the pigeons into 
butter, dredge well with flour, and season with 
pepper and salt. Cover them entirely with 



GAME 619 

thin slices of fat bacon, put them into a stew-' 
pail, and turn them frequently until they are 
brightly browned all ttver. Pour half a cupful 
of boiling water upon them, cover the saucepan 
closely, and let them steam until done enough. 
Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce round them. 
Time, about an hour to steam the birds. Suffi- 
cient for two persons. 

Roast Quail 

Draw the birds or not, according to taste. 
Truss them firmly, and tie over the breasts a 
vine-leaf covered with a Slice of fat bacon. 
Eoast in a hot oven and baste well. When done 
enough brush the bacon over with glaze, and 
serve the birds on a hot dish; garnish with 
watercresses. Pour good brown gravy round 
but not over the quails. Serve on toast. Time 
to roast the quails, fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Sufficient, two for a dish. 

Trussing of Quail 

Pluck, draw, and singe the quail. Cut off 

the neck close to the back, and the wings at the 

first pinion. Truss the legs close to the body, 

and pass a skewer through the pinions and 

thighs. 

Broiled Pheasant 

Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, and 

divide it neatly into joints. Fry these in a 



620 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

little fat until they are equally and lightly 
browned all over. Drain them well, sea'son 
with salt and cayenne, and dip them into egg 
and bread crumbs. Broil over a clear fire, and 
serve on a hot dish, with brown sauce, mush- 
room sauce, or piquant sauce, as an accompani- 
ment. The remains of a cold roast pheasant 
may be treated in this way. Time to broil, 
about ten minutes. Sufficient for three or four 
persons. 

Snipe (Cooked German Fashion) 

Pluck the birds, skin the head, and remove 
the eyes. Singe them, and cut off the claws; 
twist the legs, disjointing them, and so bring 
the feet close to the thighs, and put the long 
beak through these as a skewer. The position 
will indicate how the breast may be kept thrown 
up by passing twine round the joints and lower 
part of the body, to tie at the back. Put them 
in a stewpan just Jarge enough to hold them 
with butter enough to keep them basted, turn- 
ing as they are done on one side till they are 
tinged all over. About twenty minutes by a 
brisk heat will cook them. Toast slices of 
bread, pour on these the butter from the 
pan, and serve ±he birds on them. Dressed 
in this way, they are not drawn before the 
trussing. 



GAME 62J 

Roast Grouse 

Pluck the birds delicately, being careful not 
to tear the skin. Draw them, and wipe with 
a soft cloth, but do not wash them. Cut off the 
heads, and truss them like fowls. Put them 
into a hot oven, and baste them almost unceas- 
ingly. About tell minutes befbre they are 
taken up^ butter a slice of toast, half an inch 
thick, lay it in the pan under them, and serve 
the bird upon this. Send brown sauce and 
bread sauce to table with them, and browned 
bread crumbs on a dish. The gravy should be 
slightly flavored, or it will overpower that of 
the bird. Time, about half an hour. Suffi- 
cient, a brace for four or five persons. 

Roast Venison (a German Recipe) 

Wash and wipe the venison, then beat it 
well. Flay off' the skin. Take bacon-strips 
rather more than two inches long, and lard all 
over the fleshy parts. Eoast the meat, basting 
constantly; use sour cream or butter and milk 
for the purpose. Send to table with a sauce 
made by adding water to the bastings, skim- 
ming and straining, and adding pepper, salt, 
and lemon juice. 

Broiled Venison Steaks 

Cut the steaks an inch thick from the leg or 
the loin of venison. Make the gridiron hot, rub 



622 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



the bars with a little suet, and place tie sreaks 
upon it over a clear fire. Turn them every two 
minutes to preserve the gravy. Make the 
steak-dish very hot; put on it for each pound 
of venison an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful 
of liquid red-currant jelly, a tablespoonful of 
wine, or, as a substitute, boiling stock or water, 
and a little pepper and salt. Turn the broiled 
steaks in the sauce once or twice, and serve very 
hot. By way of variety, the butter only may 
be put into the dish under the steaks, and 
stewed mushrooms may be served with the 
venison ; or thin slices of lemon may be laid on 
the steaks for the last two or three minutes 
that they are being broiled, and then served 
with them. Time, from twenty to twenty-five 
minutes to broil the steaks. 

Roast Woodcock 

Pluck the woodcocks carefully, neck and head 
as well. Do not open them, but truss them 
securely. Eoast in a hot oven, flour them, and 
baste liberally with dripping or butter. Dish 
them with a piece of toast under each, and gar- 
nish with watercresses. Send melted butter 
or orange gravy to table in a tureen. It is an 
improvement to cover the woodcocks with 
slices of bacon before putting them down to the 
fire, and, when they are to be had, two or three 



GAME 623 

vine-leaves may be laid under the bacon. Time 
to roast the woodcocks, if liked underdone, fif- 
teen to twenty minutes; if liked well-dressed, 
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Sufficient, two 
for a dish. 



SAUCES FOR GAME 

Port-Wine Sauce 

Make a rich brown sauce from the liquor in 
which the game was cooked, thickened with 
browned flour and seasoned well. Add a table- 
spoonful of mushroom catsup, a tablespoonful 
of Worcestergjiire sauce, half an onion minced 
fine, a sprig of parsley, half a bay leaf, a blade 
of mace, and a glass of port wine. Simmer all 
together fifteen or twenty minutes, and strain. 

Orange Sauce 

Cut an orange peel into narrow strips and 
boil until tender, changing the water after it 
has cooked ten minutes. Cook together 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 of flour, stirring 
until very smooth. Add half a cupful of stock, 
a little at a time, Stirring well, half a cupful of 
currant jelly, half a cupful of any red wine, the 
juice of one large or 2 small oranges, and the 
cooked peel. Season with half a teaspoonful 
of mixed mustard, salt, and cayehne. Simmer 



624 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

all together until thorougMy blended, and serve 

hot. 

Madeira Sauce 

To a pint of brown stock add a tablespoonful 

of finely minced ham, the same amount of finely 

chopped celery, and a teaspoonful of minced 

parsley. Sinuner together fifteen minutes. 

Cook together 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 

of flour, and add to the sauce. Cook until 

thickened and smooth. Add y^ teaspoonful of 

kitchen bouquet, 2 drops of Tabasco, salt to 

taste, and half a glassful of madeira. Strain 

and serve very hot. 

Spanish Sauce % 

Brown 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, taking care 
that it does not burn. Add 1 tablespoonful 
each of lean chopped ham, onion, carrot, celery, 
and parsley. Cook all in the butt^ until 
brown. Stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and 
cook until smooth. Add 2 cupfuls of good 
stock, half a bay leaf, a blade of mace, 2 cloves, 
salt, and a dash of cayenne, or half a saltspoon- 
ful of paprika. Simmer thirty minutes, strain, 
and serve very hot. 

Aspic Game or Poultry 

' Cut up what is left of game or poultry into 
neat joints. Pour some aspic jelly into the bot- 
tom of a mould which has been soaked in cold 



GAAQE 625 

water; next a layer of stars or diamonds cut 
out of cold boiled white of egg ; a few leaves of 
parsley, and the red part of cold boiled tongue 
dotted here and there. Let it become nearly 
stiff, then arrange the cold game or poultry, 
taking care to leave room for the jelly to run 
in between. Fill the mould with jelly, which 
should be cool when it is poured in. When 
quite stiff, turn on a mould and garnish with 
parsley. Time to stiffen, about twelve hours. 

Shikaree Sauce for Ducks and Wild Fowl 

Mix a teaspoonful of cayenne with a table- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar. Put the 
mixture into a small saucepan, and pour over 
it 2 glassfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 glassfuls 
of claret, and the strained juice of a large fresh 
lemon. Stir the liquor over the fire till the 
sugar is dissolved and it is quite hot. Serve 
immediately. Sufficient for six or eight per- 
sons. 

Ricardo Sauce for Game, etc. 

Take any bones of cold roast game that may 
be left from a previous service, chop them 
into small pieces, and dredge a tablespoonful 
of flour over them. Slice 4 moderate-sized 
onions, and fry them in butter until- they are 
lightly browned without being burnt; put them 
into a clean saucepan with the bones, half a 



626 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



pint of stock made from bones, a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of extract of meat, a crust of 
toasted bread, a glassful of sherry, and a little 
pepper and salt. Stir the sauce over the fire 
till done enough, rub it through a fine sieve, 
heat it again, and serve. Time, a quarter of 
an hour to simmer the sauce. Sufficient for six 
or eight persons. 



ENTREES 

Stewed Ox Kidney 

Cut the kidney in thin slices and soak a few 
minutes in lukewarm water; drain and dry in 
a cloth. Sprinkle the slices with salt and pepr 
per, dredge with flour, and fry in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter or nice drippings until slightly 
browned. Add enough water or thin stock to 
cover it, and season with a shallot (chopped), a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little 
cayenne, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. 
Stew gently for an hour or more, until vei^y 
tender. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth with a tablespoonful of butter, 
and serve very hot. 

Sheep's Tongues in Aspic 

Soak 6 sheep's tongues in cold water for 2 
or 3 hours. Boil until tender enough to reiliove 
the skin. Put them in a stewpan with 6 cloves, 
a blade of mace, a few sprigs of parsley, half 
a small onion, and a small carrot sliced, a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of salt, and 3 or 4 peppercorns. 
Barely cover with boiling water and cook 
slowly until very tender. Let them cool in the 
liquor. 

627 



628 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

When cold take them out and drain them; 
lay them in an oval dish or mould with the root- 
ends, which should be nicely trimmed, together 
in the centre, and the tips toward the ends of 
the dish, which should not be much larger than 
necessary ^^for the tongues. Pour the aspic 
over, letting it just cover the tops, and put 
where it will stiffen and get very cold. To 
serve, turn out on a platter of the same shape, 
garnish with sprigs of parsley or cress alter- 
nated with small round beets boiled and peeled, 
and slice very thin. 

Moulded Meat 

Cut slices of cold roast veal or lamb, and 
slices of lean cooked ham very thin. Lay them 
in a baking-dish of good shape for moulding; 
a layer of meat, then a layer of sliced hard- 
boiled eggs, with a little finely minced parsley, 
salt, and pepper. When the dish is filled, pour 
over a cupful of good, rich stock and bake half 
'^an hour. When cold turn out on a platter and 
garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Mexican Chile con Carne 

Cut into dice sufficient cold lamb, beef, or veal 
to make 2l^ cupfuls. Season with a table- 
spoonful of onion juice and a teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg and sweet marjoram, mixed. 
Heat a large, heaping tablespoonful of butter 



ENTRIES 629 

in a frying-pan, and when it bubbles stir in V-/2 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir until smooth and 
thick; then pour in a cupful of soup stock or 
good gravy, add a teaspoonful of salt, Put 
the meat with the seasonings into this sauce 
and add a small, sweet red pepper cut in rings. 
Simmer together five or ten minutes and serve 
very hot on squares of hot buttered toast. 

Beef Tongue Fillets, Sautded 

Cut cold boiled tongue into slices a third of 
an inch thick. Marinate for half an hour in 
"Worcestershire sauce. Eoll in cracker crumbs, 
then in beaten egg and again in crumbs, and 
saute in butter until well browned. Take them 
out on a hot platter and put into the pan a 
tablespoonful of butter, and when hot stir in a 
tablespoonful of flour; cook until smooth, and 
brown. Add % cupful of stock and % cup- 
ful of tomato pulp, or 3 tablespoonfuls of to- 
mato catsup. Let all boil up, stirring briskly, 
and serve with the timbales. 

If a more highly seasoned sauce is liked, add 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley, half a tea- 
spoonful of kitchen bouquet, a few drops of 
onion juice, and celery salt to taste. 

Stuffed Calf's Heart 

Soak 2 hearts in cold water for fifteen min- 
utes to draw the blood out of the veins and 



630 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

arteries; remove as many of these as can be 
done without cutting the heart. Make a stuff- 
ing of 1 cupful of cracker or bread crumbs, and 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter seasoned with salt, 
pepper, a little onion juice, and a teaspoonful 
of powdeted mixed sweet herbs, or a teaspoon- 
ful of minced parsley and a teaspoonful of 
kitchen bouquet. Moisten sufficiently with hot 
water'; fill the cavities with the dressing, tie or 
skewer the opening to keep the dressing in, put 
them in a stewing-pain with just enough hot 
water to cover, and cook slowly for an hour or 
more — until very tender. Serve either hot or 
cold. 

The Same — Bahed 

Prepare the hearts as in the "preceding recipe, 
and lard them with strips of salt pork or bacon, 
or lay thin slices of bacon over the top and 
skewer them into place with wooden tooth- 
picks. 

Put them in a baking-pan with a cupful of hot 
water; cover closely, and bake from one to two 
hours, basting often. If there is more of the 
stuffing than will go in the cavities, spread it 
over them. When done, add to the liquor in 
the pan a tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
rubbed smoothly together, add 2 or 3 table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, or half a cupful of 
strained tomato pulp. Stir all smoothly to- 



ENTRIES 631 

gether, let it boil up, and pour over the 
hearts. 

A good stuffing for calf's or beef heart is 
made by taking a link of nice sausage, mixing 
it with an equal quantity pf bread crumbs, add- 
ing a scant half cupful of strained tomato pulp, 
and, if necessary, a little hot water, to moisten. 

Chicken Timbales, Supreme 

Chop very finely 1 cupful of white chicken- 
meat, 14 cupful mushrooms, 6 truffles. Mix all 
together with a tablespoonful of butter; add 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash each of 
cayenne, celery salt, and nutmeg or mace. Heat 
all together with half a cupful of rich cream, 
or cream sauce. When thoroughly hot, add a 
lightly beaten egg and stir until it thickens. 

Line buttered timbale moulds with rice boiled 
in milk and mixed with a little butter and 
beaten egg sufficient to moisten it; fill with the 
mixture, cover with the rice, and bake twenty 
minutes in an oven hot enough to brown the 
tops nicely. 

Turn out carefully on a hot platter, running 
a knife around the edge if they do not come out 
easily. Surround them with creamed peas, or 
serve in individual dishes with the peas. Or 
serve the peas dry around them and pass a 
mushroom sauce. 



632 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Lobster Croustades (to Serve Hot) 

Mix 1 cupful of very finely minced lobster- 
meat with a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a 
dash of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce. Mash well together with a 
fork. Add % cupful of rich cream sauce and 
2 or 3 truffles sliced or cht fine. Mix well. 

Prepare croustades by cutting slices of bread 
rather thick; then, with a cutter, cut into 
squares, rounds, or heart shapes without any 
of the crust. Scoop out the centres, leaving 
the bottom and sides at least a quarter of an 
inch thick. Brush these over or dip them' in 
melted butter, and brown quickly in the oven. 

Put the mixture for filling in a saucepan and 
heat thoroughly and fill the cases. Have the 
coral of the lobster mashed fine and seasoned 
with lemon juice and paprika, and sprinkle over 
the tops. 

To Serve Cold 

Prepare the lobster the same as directed, 
substituting mayonnaise for the cream sauce; 
and do not heat it, but, after mixing, put it on 
the ice to get thoroughly chilled, and fill the 
cases just before serving. The mixture may 
thus be made ready in the morning for a 
luncheon or supper. 



EGGS 

To Test Freshness 

" The following method of determining the 
age of eggs is practised in the markets of Paris. 
About six ounces of common cooking salt is put 
into a large glass, which is then filled with 
water. When the salt is in solution an egg is 
dropped into the glass. If the egg is only one 
day old, it immediately sinks to the bottom; 
if any older it does not reach the bottotif of the 
glass. If three days old it sinks only just 
below the Surface. From five days upward it 
floats ; the older it is the more it protrudes out 
of the water." — German Newspaper. 

Boiled Eggs 

Of the different methods of boiling eggs the 
old reliable is to put them in boiling water and 
boil three minutes for a soft boil, five minutes 
for medium, and eight to ten minutes for hard, 
if to be eaten at once. For stuffing, garnish- 
ing, and for picnic or lunches, twenty to thirty 
minutes' boiling is not too long. 

Another way is to put the eggs in boiling 
water and let them stand on the range for ten 
41 m 



63i MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

minutes, keeping them covered and very hot, 
but not allowing them to boil. The whites wUl 
then be thoroughly cooked, but not hard, and it 
is claimed that they are more easily digested 
than when subjected to rapid boiling. 

Still another method is to place them in cold 
water and let them come to a quick boil. As 
soon as the water boils the eggs are soft, and 
the same additional time is required for 
medium- and hard-boiled as by the old method. 
(Jooked in this way the whites will not be tough- 
ened as by rapid boiling, and the yolks will be 
of a creamy consistency. 

Poached Eggs 

To poach an egg scientifically and satisfac- 
torily it should be broken carefully into the 
salted boiling water so that the white will not 
spread and leave the edges ragged. A very 
little vinegar added to the water will help to 
set the egg more quickly and keep its shape. 
An egg-poacher is convenient, as the eggs can 
be easily lifted out pf the water, or rings like 
muffin-rings may be set in the pan and keep 
them in uniform shape. 

Cook until they are just firm enough to lift 
out without breaking the yolks, and serve on 
slices of delicately browned, hot buttered toast. 
The toast and eggs should be placed on a hot 



EGGS 635 

dish. TMn slices of delicately crisped bacon 
arranged around the edge of the platter alter- 
nated with sprigs of parsley makes an attract- 
ive and satisfactory breakfast dish. 

Fried Eggs 

The time-honored way of frying eggs with 
ham or bacon may be varied by using olive oil 
or butter. If ham or bacon is used, remove the 
slices to a hot platter as soon as the ham is 
done or the bacon delicately crisped, and break 
the eggs gently into the hot fat. With a spoon 
dip some of the boiling fat over the top of 
the eggs while they are cooking, and as soon as 
cooked sufficiently lift out with a pancake- 
turner. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Beat 4 or 5 eggs just enough to mix the white 
and yolk; add a scant % cupful of milk, salt, 
and pepper. Pour into the hot, buttered pan, 
and stir until it begins to set; then stir very 
briskly, mixing and chopping rapidly with a 
large spoon. Cook until the yolk is rather dry, 
continually mixing and chopping. The white 
will be in distinct bits and the yolk of the con- 
sistency of a hard-boiled egg. 

Pour the^ egg into a hot dish ; dot the top with 
bits of soft butter, and sprinkle over a half -tea- 



636 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

spoonful of very finely minced parsley. Serve 
immediately. 

Baked Eggs and Bacon 

Allow 2 very thin slices of bacon to each egg. 
Fry the bacon very crisp and place the slices 
by twos on a large, flat, buttered plate. Care- 
fully break an egg over each pair ; bake in a hot 
oven until the eggs are set. Before placing in 
the oven dust the eggs with a little pepper and 
salt, and on taking them out put a small bit of 
butter on the top of each. Serve at once on 
the plate in which they were baked. 

Eggs with Cheese 
Cut hard-boiled eggs in half -inch slices. Ar- 
range them on a well-buttered dish that has 
been rubbed with a shallot. Make a sauce of a 
tablespoonful of butter, a scant tablespoonful 
of flour, and three-fourths of a cupful of milk. 
Cook until it thickens, add a tablespoonful of 
grated Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper to 
taste. Pour the sauce over the eggs, sprinkle 
the top with equal quantities of cheese and 
bread crumbs, and set in a hot oven until the 
top is a rich golden brown. Serve in the same 
dish set inside another. 

Duchesse Eggs 
Boil half a dozen eggs until hard, and put 
them in cold water ; when cool take off the shells 



EGGS 637 

and cut them lengthwise in quarters. Put 1 
tablespoonful of butter and 1 of flour in a sauce- 
pan over the fire, and stir until thoroughly 
blended, but do not let it brown. Add grad- 
ually 1 cupful of white stock and stir until it 
is smooth and thick. Add 1 tablespoonful of 
vinegar or lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful each of 
capers and chopped parsley, and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Put the eggs in carefully without 
breaking, and simmer gently for five minutes. 
Serve on a hot platter with a, border of tri- 
angles of crisp toast, garnished with ^sprigs of 
parsley. 

Devilled or Stuffed Eggs 

Boil 5 or 6 eggs twenty or thirty minutes. 
When cold remove the shells and cut in halves 
with a sharp knife. Take out the yolks and 
mash them smooth with a teaspoonful each of 
very finely minced onion and parsley, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, salt and pepper to 
taste, and a little mustard. Fill each half of 
the egg whites with the mixture, rounding each 
one to appear like a whole yolk. Cut a small 
slice from the lower side of the white, just 
enough to make it stand evenly, arrange on a 
platter, and put a border of cress around and 
sprigs of the cress in the spaces between the 
eggs. 

A few drops of onion juice may be substi- 



638 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

tuted for the minced onion, or, if objectionable, 
omitted altogether, and finely chopped pickle 
or very finely minced ham may be used with the 
addition of a few drops of Worcestershire or 
any other hot sauce. 

If they are to be used for a picnic or trav- 
eller's lunch, fill only one-half of the egg whites, 
'cover with the other half, and wrap in squares 
of waxed paper, twisting the ends to hold the 
ogg in shape.. 

Eggs Stuffed with Anchovies 

Allow 1 anchovy to each egg. Boil, the eggs 
aard. Cool, remove the shells, and cut in two 
lengthwise. Bone and skin the anchovies, and 
mash or pound them in a mortar with the yolks, 
adding a piece of butter the size of a yolk, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a dash of cayenne, 
a very little grated nutmeg, and salt to taste. 

Fill each half of the whites with this mixture ; 
put them in a baking-tin, and put in a hot oven 
until thoroughly heated. Serve with rounds of 
crisp, well-buttered toast. 

Eggs with Tomatoes 

For 6 medium-sized tomatoes allow 4 eggs. 
Select smooth, firm tomatoes, cut them in 
halves, across, and remove some of the pulp. 
Bake them in a buttered pan. Beat the eggs, 
add a tablespoonful of rich cream, salt and 



EGGS 639 

pepper. Mix with the tomato pulp, put it in 
a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, and 
cook until it thickens, stirring all the time. As 
soon as the tomatoes are done lift them with 
a pancake-turner to rounds of buttered toast, 
fill with the hot mixture, and serve garnished 
with parsley or cress. This makes a hearty 
breakfast or luncheon dish. 

Eggs au Beurre Noir 

Prepare half a dozen eggs as if for poach- 
ing, by breaking each one separately iiito a 
cup. Brown 3 ounces of butter in a large fry- 
ing-pan, and slide the eggs from the cups into 
it ; when they have well set, ladle the burnt but- 
ter over them, and sprinkle salt and some nut- 
meg. Serve on toast wetted with vinegar. 
Time, from two and a half to three and a half 
minutes, according to size of eggs. Sufficient, 
two eggs for each person. 

Eggs and Spinach 

Prepare some spinach by washing very care- 
fully, and then boiling till 'tender. Put into 
cold water to keep the color good, and when 
quite cold press the water out of it, a little at 
a time, in a towel. Chop it very fine, and put 
it into a stewpan with a lump of butter and 
some rich gravy. Boil it quickly in this, and 



640 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

add pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Or it may be 
stewed with cream and a little sugar, wMcli is 
a very delicate method. Poach 6 eggs, and trim 
them neatly^ Serve them upon the spinach. 
Time, ten to fifteen minutes to boil; five min- 
utes to stew. ■ Sufficient for three persons. 

Shirred Eggs 
Sprinkte fine bread crumbs over the bottom 
of individual dishes that have been well but- 
tered. Carefully break a fresh egg into each, 
dust vith salt and pepper, and cover the tops 
with bread crumbs. Stand the dishes in a pan 
of hot water, put them in a hot oven, and cook 
until the eggs are set. Put bits of butter on 
the top of each, and serve at once. 

Curried Eggs 
Peel 2 or 3 onions and slice them very thin. 
Put them in a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter, and cook slowly until the onions are 
tender and a golden yellow, taking care that 
they do not scorch. Add a tablespoonful of 
flour and stir until smooth; then add a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of ground ginger, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a very little finely minced parsley. 
Mix all thoroughly, and add a cupful of hot 
stock or water. Stir until it boils, and stand 
the saucepan over another pan of hot water to 



EGGS 64t 

keep hot. Have ready 6 hard-boiled eggs. Cut 
them across in slices just thick enough to pre- 
serve the shape. 

In the centre of a hot platter pile a mound 
of boiled rice, arrange the slices of eggs around 
the edge, and pour over the curry sauce. Serve 
at once. 

OMELETS 

Plain Omelet 

3 eggs ; 1 tablespoonful cream ; 1 tablespoon- 
ful melted butter; % teaspoonful salt; a dash 
of white pepper or paprika. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs very light; add salt, 
pepper, and cream or milk. Fold in the whites 
of the eggs, beaten very stiff. Have the butter 
boiling hot in the omelet-pan, which should be 
kept very smooth; turn the mixture in, and as 
soon as it begins to stiffen, draw it away from 
the edges of the pan or gently slide a knife 
under the centre to allow the uncooked egg to 
reach the hot pan, and cook evenly. As soon 
as the omelet is a rich golden brown, fold over 
and serve at once on a very hot plate. The 
mixture must not stand after the whites of the 
eggs are folded in. The secret of a light, fluffy 
omelet is in making and cooking quickly. This 
quantity is for two people. 

Double the above quantity may be made in 



642 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



one omelet, but if a larger amount is necessary, 
it is better to make two or three omelets rather 
than attempt cooking the whole quantity in one. 
Six eggs should be the limit. 

Cheese Omelet 

Follow the directions for plain omelet, and 
after it begins to stiffen sprinkle over the top 
2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Fold over 
and serve. 

Ham Omelet 

Proceed as with plain omelet, and after pour- 
ing it in the pan, sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls 
of finely minced ham to which has been added 
a little minced parsley. Or the ham may be 
added to the yolks of the eggs before folding 
in the whites. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 
Five or six minutes should be sufficient for the 
cooking. 

Asparagus Omelet 

To a plain omelet add young asparagus tips 
that have been cooked until tender and seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Have them hot, and 
when the. omelet is ready to serve, place them 
across it and fold them in. Serve quickly. 

Green Corn Omelet 

Grate or cut from the cob enough young 
sweet corn to make a cupful. Put in a sauce- 



EGGS 643 

pan with as little milk as will cover it, and stew 
gently five or six minutes. Add this to l^he 
yolks of 4 or 5 eggs, seasoning with salt and 
pepper ; fold in the whites of the eggs and cook 
the same as ijsiial. Fold it over only once. 

Mushroom Omelet 

Cut 3 or 4 mushrooms in small pieces ; stew 
them until tender in a little milk. Beat 6 eggs, 
yolks and whites separately, add the mhsh- 
rooms to the yolks, using the milk in which they 
were stewed. Season with a little salt and 
paprika, fold in the whites of the eggs, and 
cook as usual. 

Tomato Omelet 

2 or 3. tomatoes are sufficient for 4 eggs. 
Peel the tomatoes and cut across, remove the 
seeds, and cut the firm part into dice. Put 
them in a frying-pan with salt and pepper ajid 
a teaspoonful of butter, and cook until done. 
Add these to a plain omelet just before folding 
it over. 

Canned tomatoes may be used in an omelet 
by taking out a little of the firm part. Cook 
this a few minutes in a small saucepan with a 
teaspoonful of butter, a little finely minced 
parsley, and a teaspoonful each of finely 
minced onion and green peppers. Pour over 
the omelet when it has stiffened and fold it in, 



644 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

or mix it with tlie yolks of a plain omelet and 
then fold in the whites of the eggs and fry at 
once. 

Onion Omelet 

For 6 eggs take 1 large Spanish onion, cut 
it into dice, and fry in a spoonful of butter until 
tender, stirring it often. Do not let it brown. 
Add very little salt and a dash of pepper, and 
beat it into the yolks of the eggs. Proceed as 
in directions for plain omelet, folding in the 
whites of the eggs. When it is nearly cooked 
sprinkle over the top a teaspoonful of finely 
minced parsley. Cook in two omelets. Serve 
with it French fried, Lyonnaise, or baked, po- 
tatoes with a cream sauce. 

Oyster Omelet 

For a 3-egg omelet take 6 medium-sized oys- 
ters. Cook them in their own liquor until they 
curl. Drain, and chop them quite fine; season 
with pepper and a very little lemon juice. Add 
them to a plain omelet just before folding it. 

Small oysters may be cooked in the same 
way, using a sufficient number for the omelet, 
and lay them whole across the omelet and fold 
over and serve. 

Fruit Omelets 

A good omelet for lunch m^y be made from 
fresh or stewed fruits, or with jam, preserves, 



EGGS 645 

marmalade, or jelly. A delicious one is made 
with peaches. Take 5 or 6 ripe freestone 
peaches; peel, cut in halves, remove the pits, 
cut them again in quarters ; put them in a 
saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
just sufficient water to keep them from burning. 
Stew slowly, taking care that they do not break. 
Make a plain omelet, and when jiist ready to 
fold over, lay the pieces of peach across the 
centre and fold them in. If there should be 
any syrup in the saucepan, pour it around the 
omelet after it is dished. 

Apples may, be used in the same way. Pare, 
core, and cut lengthwise in about eighths, nice 
tart apples. Put them in a saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of 
sugar to each large apple, and a very little 
water. Cook slowly without breaking, letting 
the syrup cook down until the apples are nearly 
dry. 

Grrate over them a little nutmeg; lay the 
apples carefully across the cooked omelet, re- 
serving some whole pieces to arrange around 
the omelet. Fold the apples in and dust over 
it a little powdered sugar. 

Baked Omelet 

Beat 6 or 7 eggs very light; it is better to 
beat the whites separately and add them last. 



646 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Mix 1 teaspoonful of flour with cold milk until 
smooth, add a cupful of milk, and bring to a 
boil. Add pepper and salt, and the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, then the whites, and turn into 
a well-buttered earthen baking-dish and bake 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve at once in the 
same dish. 

Omelet with Peas 

Make a plain omelet with 6 eggs. Have 
ready a pint of freshly cooked green peas — or 
a can of peas from which the water has been 
drained — heated and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. When the omelet has set" and is ready 
to fold over, put 2 or 3 spoonfuls of the peas in 
the centre ; fold over as usual and turn on to a 
hot platter. Add to the remaining peas 2 
spoonfuls of rich cream; let it heat quickly and 
pour it around the omelet. Serve at once. 
The cream may be omitted and the peas served 
dry, with plenty of butter over. 



VEGETABLES. 

Potato Cakes 

Take a supply of boiled and mashed potatoes, 
and, while hot, mould them into balls the size 
of an egg. Place them upon a buttered tifl 
sheet. Brush a beaten egg over the top of the 
cakes and place them in the oven to brown. 
Slide them on a hot platter with a knife-blade. 

The cakes may also be moulded in a small 
after-dinner coffee-cup. The potato, when 
moulded, will slip out easily if the ihside of the 
cup has been first wet with water. These: may 
be garnished with parsley. 

Browned Mashed Potatoes 

Take a fireproof vegetable dish and butter the 
inside. Fill it with hot mashed potato. Brush 
over the top with butter, and sift a little flour 
over it. Place it in a hot oven to brown slightly. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Cold boiled potatoes; chopped onion; butter; 
chopped parsley; drippings or lard; seasoning. 

Cut the potatoes in dice. Put 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and one of drippings or lard, for 
each quart of potatoes used, in a frying-pan and 

647 



648 VEGETABLES 

melt over the fire. As soon as the butter is 
melted, add 1 tablespoonful of chopped onion 
for each quart of potato, and fry only until it 
turns yellow. Then add the potato, and sea- 
son. Stir constantly with a fork so as not to 
break the potato. After five minutes add the 
chopped parsley, and cook two minutes longer. 
Warm the dish before serving. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

8 potatoes; whites of 4 eggs; % cupful of 
boiling milk; 1 tablespoonful of butter; season- 
ing. 

Select only large and perfect potatoes. Wash 
and scrub well, but do not break the skin. Bake 
them for forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 
When done, cut them in two lengthwise; scoop 
out the potato and place it in a heated dish and 
mash it well. Add the seasoning, butter, and 
milk. Beat all up together and add the whites 
of 2 eggs. Refill the skins with the mixture, 
and brush the whites of the other 2 eggs over 
the filled skins. Brown in the oven. 

French Fried Potatoes 

Choose small potatoes; peel them, and cut 
them lengthwise into quarters or eighths, like 
pieces of orange or the quarters of apples. Let 
them stand for half an hour in very cold water 
to extract the starch. Dry each piece carefully 



VEGETABLES 649 

on cloth. Fry them in hot fat in a fryihg- 
basket for ten minutes. Do not fill the basket 
too full. Drain carefully from fat. Sprinkle 
with salt and serve hot. 

Fried Raw Potatoes 

Slice crosswise half a dozen potatoes very 
thin — as thin as wafers. Melt in a frying-pan 
1 tablespoonful each of lard and butter. When . 
very hot, place in it the sliced potatoes. Sea- 
son them, then cover tightly to let the steam as- 
sist in the cooking, and fry to a golden brown, 
turning them wjien necessary. To be served 
very hot. 

Fried Potato Balls 

With a vegetable scoop cut out little balls 
from large, pared, raw potatoes. Let them soak 
for half an hour in very cold or ice water, to 
remove the starch. Drain and dry on a cloth. 
Then fry in hot fat for ten minutes in a f rying- 
basket. Drain well, season, and serve hot. 
They may be garnished with chopped parsley. 

The potato balls may also be cut from CQld, 
cooked potatoes, and brownec^ in the same way. 
They may be served with boiled fish. 

• 
Potatoes au Gratin 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter; 1 pint baked po- 
tatoes; 1 tablespoonful of flour; V3 cupful 

43 



650 VEGETABLES 

grated clieese ; 2 cupfuls of milk ; I/2 cupful fine 
bread crumbs ; yolks of 2 eggs ; seasoning. 

Melt the butter, then add the flour, and boil 
for a minute. Stir in the milk until the sauce 
thickens perfectly smooth. Add the seasoning 
and the beaten eggs; Slice the potatoes and 
place in a deep baking-dish. Pour the sauce 
over them, then sprinkle over the top the grated 
cheese and the bread crumbs. Brown lightly 
in a hot oven for ten minutes. Serve at once. 

Baked Potatoes 

Choose fine, smooth potatoes of equal size, 
and bake ; as soon as tender remove from oven, 
cut in halves or cut off the top lengthwise ; scoop 
out the inside of the potato, mash it fine ; season 
with tablespoonful of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls 
of cream, salt and pepper to taste; beat until 
very light, then replace in the jackets. If cut 
in halves, fill the 2 halves level full and press 
them together. If the opening has been made 
on the side, fill the cavity rounding full, brush 
over with yolk of an egg, and place in the oven 
until a nice brown. 

Potato Puff 

1 pint of hot mashed potatoes ; y2 cupful of 
hot milk or cream ; 1 tablespoonful of butter ; 2 
eggs; 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley; sea- 
soning. 



VEGETABLES 651 

Mash tlie potatoes light and fine. Add the 
seasoning. Heat the milk or cream and butter 
together, and add to the potatoes. 

After cooling a little, stir in one egg. Then 
mould into small balls. Brush the rest of 
the egg over the balls, and brown them on a 
buttered tin. The parsley may be stirred in, 
or sprinkled over. 

Instead of moulding into balls, the mass of 
potato may be heaped up in a shallow baking- 
dish in irregular shape and browned for ten 
minutes. This will give it a puffy appearance. 
In the latter method it is well to beat the yolks 
and whites of the eggs separately. 

Potato Basket 

1 pint mashed hot potato; 2 egg yolks, tea- 
spoonful salt, dash white pepper, teaspoonful 
each parsley and onion juice, generous pinch 
celery salt. Form baskets of 2 tablespoonfuls 
of mixture; brush with egg; brown in oven; fill 
with boiled button radishes seasoned with salt, 
butter, ind white pepper. Arrange green 
parsley over handle. 

Potato Souffl6 

Into 1 pint of hot, smoothly mashed potato, 
stir 1 tablespoonful of butter, salt, pepper, and 
2 level teaspoonfuls of minced parsley. Add 
Va of a cupful of hot milk, or sufficient to make 



652 VEGETABLES 

the potato very moist. Add the beaten yolks of 
4 eggs, beating them in thoroughly ; then add the 
stilfly beaten whites of the eggs, folding them 
in quickly. Turn at once into a buttered souf- 
fle-pan or deep baking-dish, and bake fifteen or 
twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. 
Serve at once. 

Sweet Potato Souffle 

Heat 3 tablespoonfuls butter; when frothy 
add 3 tablespoonfuls flour ; cook a moment, then 
add % cupful of hot milk and Yz cupful sweet 
potato pulp ; when thick, remove from the fire; 
add I cupful sugar, pinch salt, cinnamon, yolks 
of 3 eggs beaten thick ; stifily beaten whites; 
bake ; serve with wine sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Boil or steam the potatoes until they are suf- 
ficiently cooked, and are mealy and dry. Care- 
fully remove any discplored places there may be 
upon them, beat them with a wooden spoon or 
masher, whilst beating ; add a little salt, a piece 
of butter, and 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling 
milk or cream. When the beaten potatoes are 
quite smooth and free from lumps, put them 
into a saucepan, and beat them over the fire for 
a minute or two, till they are light and quite hot. 
Dish them lightly, and dr^w the fork backwards 
over them to roughen the surface. 



VEGETABLES 653 

Potatoes with White Sauce 

Thicken some butter with flour in a stewpan, 
add some milk or cream, with chives and pars- 
ley cut small, season with salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg, and boU these ingredients to the consist- 
ency of sauce. When ready, put in some 
cooked potatoes, and serve very hot with a little 
chopped parsley sprinkled over them. 

Boiled Potatoes 

When about to boil potatoes, pick them out as 
nearly as possible of one size, or the large ones 
will be hard when the small ones are reduced to 
pulp. If this cannot easily be done, cut them 
to one size. ^ Wash them well, remove the specks 
or eyes, and pare them as thinly as possible, to 
avoid waste. As they are pared, throw them 
into cold water, and let them remain in it until 
wanted. Put them into a saucepan with barely 
enough cold water to cover them, and as soon as 
the water boils throw in a little more cold water. 
This will check the heat, and keep the potatoes 
from breaking before they are done through. 
Thrust a fork into them occasionally; and as 
soon as they are soft take them up, pour off the 
liquor, and let them stand by the side of the fire 
with the saucepan partially uncovered till the 
moisture has evaporated and they are quite dry. 
If they are allowed to remain in the water after 



654 VEGETABLES. 

they are done enoiigh, they will become soggy. 
Serve very hot. When, potatoes are done be- 
fore they are wanted, they should be drained 
and left in the saucepan by the side of the fire, 
and instead ot the lid a folded cloth should be 
laid over them. This will absorb the moisture 
and keep them hot and in good condition for 
some time. In order to make boiled potatoes 
look floury, boil and drain them as above, and 
whilst they are drying by the side of the fire 
shake the saucepan vigorously every minute or 
two. 

Potatoes Boiled in Their Jackets 
Potatoes are frequently boiled and served in 
their jackets, and a small plate is placed by the 
side of each guest to receive the skins. The 
skins are frequently removed before serving. 
Choose potatoes of uniform size, and scrub them 
with a soft brush until they are perfectly clean. 
Put them into a saucepan with a little cold 
water, not quite sufficient to cover them. Boil 
them as gently as possible, for the more slowly 
they are cooked the better they will be. If a 
little salt is thrown in occasionally, it will be 
found a great improvement. If the potatoes 
are large, add half a cupful of cold water every 
now and then. In order to ascertain whether or 
not they are done enough, probe them occasion- 
ally with a forkj and when they are tender 



VEGETABLES 655 

throughout, pour off the water, put the sauce- 
pan once more on the fire, and let it remain 
until the potatoes are quite dry. Send them to 
table. 

Broiled Potatoes 

Take some cold boiled potatoes; cut them 
lengthwise into slices half an inch thick, dredge 
a little flour lightly over these, and lay them on 
a hot gridiron over a clear but not very fierce 
fire. Turn them about that they may be equally 
colored on both sides, and serve very hot. The 
slices must not be allowed to get hard, or they 
will be spoilt. Time, till browned. Allow 2 or 
3 potatoes for each person. 

Fried Potatoes (German) 

Cut up half a dozen firm boiled potatoes in 
slices %. of an inch thick. Put these into a 
saucepan with 2 ounces of fresh butter, and 
shake them over the fire until they are lightly 
browned. Sprinkle over them a little pepper 
and salt, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 
teaspoonful of finely minced onion, and the juice 
of % a small lemon. 1 teaspoonful of good 
brown gravy may be added or not. Serve very 
hot. Time, ten minutes to fry the potatoes. 

Potatoes Browned under a Roasting Joint 

Half boil 8 or 10 large potatoes. Drain the 
water from them, flour them well, and lay them 



656 VEGETABLES 

-■ II. —■ - ....iMi II ,m4 

in the roasting-panin the dripping just one-half 
hour before the meat is ready. Baste the po- 
tatoes liberally from time to time. When they 
are browned on one side turn them upon the 
other. Before sending to table, place them on 
blotting-paper and serve in the same platter 
with the roast. 

Saratoga Chips 
Pare raw potatoes, slice thin, let soak in cold 
water fifteen minutes and then dry on soft towel, 
covering them with another so that they will not 
discolor. Let them remain until the water has 
been absorbed, then have ready a kettle of boil- 
ing lard, drop a handful of the potatoes into the 
lard, and fry until light brown, stirring often. 
Take up on soft brown paper in a colander, 
sprinkle with salt, and place in the oven to keep 
warm. Put in more potatoes, and continue until 
sufficient have been fried in the same way. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Chop up the amount of cold potatoes desired 
rather fine; season with salt and pepper, and 
then add % cupful of cream. 

Into a hot frying-pan put 1 tablespoonful of 
butter ; when it is heated without burning, put in 
the potatoes, packing down evenly, stand over a 
hot fire for five minutes, then draw one side to 
moderate heat, and cover so that the potatoes 



, VEGETABLES 657 

may become thorouglxly" heated and steamed 
throughout, the bottom browning. When done, 
fold over as for an omelet ; serve on hot platter 
garnished with parsley. 

Sweet Potatoes au Gratin 

Same as potatoes au gratin, using instead the 
sweet potato. 

Escalloped Sweet Potatoes 

Peel and slice thin. In a shallow tin put a 
layer of potatoes. Sprinkle with salt, a little 
sugar and bits of butter, then another layer of 
potato, then seasoning until the tin is full. 
Cover sparingly with water or milk and bake 
very slowly. 

Sweet Potatoes and Apples 

Boil sweet potatoes until tender, then slice 
them in small pieces. Make an apple sauce just 
as it should be served for the table. Put a layer 
of sweet potatoes in the bottom of a baking- 
dish; sprinkle with a very little sugar and dot 
over the top a few flecks of butter. On top of 
this put a layer of the apple sauce, alternately 
using the sweet potatoes 'and apples, until the 
dish is filled. Finish the top with the potatoes 
and then use more butter and sugar, so that a 
rich brown crust is formed. Bake from one 
hour to one and a half hours. This is very good 
with game. 



658 VEGETABLES 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Boil 6 medium-sized sweet potatoes. Ee- 
move the skins, and proceed the same as for po- 
tato croquettes. 

All sweet potatoes can be treated in the same 
manner as the Irish potato, with the exceptioi 
of frying with onion. 

Potato Rice 

Boil 2 pounds of potatoes ; mash them with 2 
ounces of butter and 4 tablespoonfuls of boiling 
milk, and season with pepper and salt. Put 
them into a large colander, and press them 
through this on to a hot dish, and whilst doing 
so, shake the colander every minute or so, that 
the potatoes may fall lightly like rice. Serve 
very hot, with broiled steak or sausages. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Mash some potatoes in the usual way with 
butter and a little hot milk. Butter some scal- 
lop-shells or patty-pans, fill them with the 
mashed potatoes, make them smooth on the top, 
and then draw the back of a fork over them. 
Sprinkle finely grated bread crumbs on the top, 
and lay small pieces of butter here and there 
upon them. Put the potatoes in a Dutch oven 
before the fire till they are brightly browned, 
and serve on a neatly folded napkin in the scal- 
lop-shells. Time, about a quarter of au hour to 



VEGETABLES 659 

brown the potatoes. SuflScient, one scallop- 
shell for each person. 

Casserole of Potatoes 

Peel and boil some good mealy potatoes, mash 
them with a little salt, butter, cream, and the 
yolk of 1 egg to every pint of potatoes. Beat 
them two or three minutes over the fire to dry 
them thoroughly, then place them on a shallow 
dish, and work them with the hands into the 
shape of a raised pie. Leave a hollow in the 
middle, ornament it with flutings, etc., brush it 
over with beaten egg, and brown it in a quick 
oven. Fill the inside with a ragout or mince, 
and serve hot. 

Potato Croquettes 

Bake half a dozen large potatoes (regents). 
When done enough, burst them open, and scoop 
out the contents with a spoon. Beat the pulp 
until it is quite smooth, then put it into a clean 
saucepan with the yolks of 1 or 2 eggs, a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, and a little pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg. Beat this mixture 
over a moderate fire, until it leaves the sides of 
the saucepan with the spoon, then spread it out 
on a dish and let it cool. Shape it into balls; 
dip these in beaten egg, then into bread crumbs, 
and fry them in hot fat until they are equally 
and lightly browned. Let them drain before 



660 ''EGETABLES 

the fire, dish them on a hot napkin, and serve 
immediately. If liked, the potato paste can be 
shaped into the form of corks or pears, a little 
piece of parsley-stalk being stuck into them to 
imitate the stalk. SnflBcient for a small dish. 

Potato Fritters 

Boil and peel the potatoes, grate or mash 
them, add 4 well-beaten eggs, a little cream, 
chopped parsley, chives, salt, and spice, and 
mix the whole well together. Drop a teaspoon- 
ful of this paste into a pan of boiling lard or 
butter, when it will swell into a light fritter. 
Or, take the mealy part of potatoes roasted; 
beat it in a mortar with a little fine salt, 1 spoon- 
ful of brandy, some fresh butter and cream. 
Mix the whole, adding gradually 1 well-beaten 
egg; shape the paste into small balls, which roll 
in flour, fry, and serve, sprinkled with powdered 
sugar. 

Potato Ribbons 

Wash and peel half a dozen large kidney po- 
tatoes, and let them lie in cold water for a few 
minutes. Cut them into ribbons, round and 
round, like an apple, and keep the strips as 
nearly as possible of one width. They must 
not be too thin or they will break. Fry them in 
plenty of hot fat until they are lightly browned. 
Drain them on a wire sieve, and sprinkle a little 



VEGETABLES 66t 

pepper and salt over them. Serve on a hot 
dish. Time to fry, eight or ten minutes. Suf- 
ficient for three or four persons. 

Potatoes a la Cr^me 

Boil some potatoes of a firm kind in the usual 
way. Take a small, sharp, thin-bladed knife 
and cut them into thin slices. Put 1 pint of 
these into a stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
1 ounce of butter, a little pepper, salt, and 
grated nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Pour % of a pint of cream over the top, 
cover the saucepan closely, and shake-it over the 
fire for eight or ten minutes. Place the pota- 
toes on a hot dish, and be very careful not to 
break them. 

Plain Boiled Rice 

Wash 1/^ a pound of rice through several 
waters to remove all the flour. Throw it a little 
at a time into 2 quarts of slightly salted rapidly 
boiling water ; let it boil steadily, uncovered, for 
twenty minutes. Drain, toss it gently with a 
fork, and dry it for five or ten minutes in a hot 
oven. Serve uncovered. 

Rice Boiled with Milk 

Wash and boil as for the preceding. When 
it has boiled ten minutes drain off the water, 



662 VEGETABLES 

and pour over enough hot milk to nearly cover 
the rice ; cook ^another thirty minutes with the 
kettle covered — it should be put in a double boiler 
when the milk is added. Eemove the cover and 
let it stand where it will keep hot and dry off ; 
, tossing it gently with a fork to allow the steam 
to escape more freely. 
Serve on a hot dish. 

Risotto 

This is an elegant Italian dish, the principal 
ingredient of which is rice. Shred onions into 
a frying-pan with plenty of butter, and fry till 
the onions become very brown and communicate 
their color to the butter. Run the butter off, 
and add to this some rich broth, slightly fla- 
vored with saffron ; thicken the whole with well- 
boiled rice, and serve up as a ppta^e, instead of 
soup, at the beginning of dinner. 

Rice Croquettes 

Put 14 of a pound of rice, 1 pint of milk, 3 
tablespoonfuls of finely sifted sugar, 1 piece of 
butter the size of a small n-ut, and the thin rind 
of a lemon into a saucepan. Any other flavor- 
ing may be used, if preferred. Simmer gently 
until the rice is tender and the milk absorbed- 
It must be boiled until thick and dry, or it will 
be difficult to mould into croquettes. Beat it 
thoroughly for three or four minutes, then turn 



VEGETABLES 6a 

it out, and when it is cold and stiff , form it into 
small balls; dip these in egg, sprinkle a few 
bread crumbs over them, and fry them in clari- 
fied fat till they are lightly and equally browned. 
Put them on a piece of clean blotting-paper, to 
drain the fat from them, and serve them piled 
high on the dish. 

Creole Rice 

Remove the veins and seeds from 2 large, ripe 
red peppers and chop them fine. Peel 1 large 
white onion and chop fine with i/4 of a pound of 
raw, lean ham. Melt in a saubepan 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and when hot add the pep- 
pers, onion, and ham. Let them cook, stirring 
frequently, for ten minutes. Add 1 cupful of 
well washed and drained rice and cook five min- 
utes, then add 3 cupfuls of strong beef soup or 
broth. Cover and cook slowly for half an hour. 

Peel and cut small 4 or, 5 large tomatoes (or 
use about V3 of a can), add them to the rice 
with 1 teaspoonful of salt. Cover and cook 
slowly, watching that the rice does not stick to 
the bottom of the pan. When it is tender stir 
in with a fork 1 tablespoonful of butter and let 
it stand five minutes longer, then serve. 

Rice (East Indian Method) 

Wash 1/2 a pound of Patna rice in 2 or 3 
waters. Drain it, and throw it into plenty of 



664 VEGETABLES 

cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, keeping 
the saucepan uncovered, and let it boil gently 
until the grains are tender when pressed be- 
tween the thumb and finger, but are still quite 
distinct from one another. The rice will need 
to boil about % of an hour. Drain and dry it 
on a sieve before the fire. Take 2 pounds of 
undressed meat of any kind, or of rabbit, 
chicken, or fish, and cut this up into neat pieces 
convenient for serving. Slice 2 large onions, 
and fry them in butter till they are lightly 
browned without being at all burnt. Take them 
up, and fry the meat in the same fat, moving it 
about to keep it from burning. Mix 1 dessert- 
spoonful of curry paste, 1 dessertspoonful of 
curry powder, and 1 teaspoonful of ground rice 
very smoothly with 1| cupfuls of milk. Pourthis 
over the meat, and add % a pint of good stock 
made from bones, the fried onions, a little salt, 
and 1 clove of garlic, if this is liked, but the 
curry will be more generally acceptable if the 
garlic is omitted. Stir the sauce till it boils, 
and simmer all gently together till the meat is 
tender. The time required will vary with the 
nature of the meat. Put the pieces of meat on 
a dish. 

Stir into curry juice of | lemon. Pour the 
sauce over the meat, and serve. Send the rice 
to table on a separate dish. It should be ar- 



VEGETABLES 665 

ranged that the curry and the rice shall be 
ready to serve at the same time. Time, alto- 
gether, about two hours. Sufficient for six or 
eight persons. 

Rice Fritters 
Boil 3 ounces of rice in a pint of new milk 
till it forms a stiff paste. Sweeten it, flavor 
with grated lemon rind, or powdered cinnamon, 
mace, or nutmeg, and beat it up with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream, 2 eggs, and 1 spoonful of 
brandy, if liked. Let the rice get cold, and form 
it into balls about as large as nuts ; dip these in 
egg, roll in bread crumbs, and fry quickly. 
When the balls are nicely browned, pile them on 
a white doily, strew sifted sugar over them, and 
serve hot. Send wine sauce to table with them. 
Or, boil 3 ounces of rice in a pint of milk to a 
stiff paste. Sweeten and flavor it, and mix with 
it 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 ounce of fresh butter, 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of orange marmalade. 
Stir it over the fire till the eggs are set, then 
spread it on a dish to cool. Cut it into narrow 
strips the length and thickness of a finger, dip 
these into frying-batter, and fry in hot fat till 
they are brightly browned. Sift powdered sugar 
over them, and serve on a napkin. The batter 
may be made as follows : Melt 1 ounce of butter 
in a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and cool 
it by adding an equal quantity of cold water. 
43 



666 VEGETABLES 

Stir in gradually 2 ounces of flour,, and beat the 
mixture till it is smooth. Add the well-whisked 
white of an egg, and use iminediately. Or, mix 
% of a pound of ground rice smoothly with a 
pint of milk, and add a pinch of salt and 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Stir the mixture over the 
fire till it leaves the saucepan with the spoon, 
then pour it out, and when cold add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, 3 eggs, and a little flavor- 
ing, and beat the mixture till smooth. Fry 
it in spoonfuls in hot fat. When 'the fritters 
are nicely browned, drain them on a sieve, and 
serve on a neatly folded napkin, with powdered 
sugar sifted over them. Time to fry, six or 
seven minutes. Sufficient for five or six per- 
sons. 

Rice Souffle 
Wash 6 tablespoonfuls of rice, and throw it 
into quickly boiling water for five minutes. 
Drain it, and put it into a clean saucepan with 1 
quart of milk, a pinch of salt, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, 2 ounces of butter, 
and any flavoring that may be liked, such as 
orange, lemon, vanilla, coffee, chocolate, orange- 
flower water, rose-water, or any" liqueur. If the 
rice is not sweet enough to suit the palate, a 
little more sugar may be added, but it should be 
remembered that the less sugar used the lighter 
will be the souffle. Let the rice boil, put the 



VEGETABLES 667 

lid on the saucepan and simmer very slowly 
until it is tender and has absorbed the milk. 
Let it cool a little, then add, one at a time, the 
well- whisked yolks of 6 eggs. Warm and butter 
a souffle-dish or tin which the preparation will 
half fill, or failing these, use a deep pie-dish or 
thin earthenware basin. Whisk the whites of 
the eggs to a firm froth. Mix them lightly with 
the rice, and bake the souffle at once after they 
are added. In order to ascertain whether the 
souffle is sufficiently baked, run a straw into 
the centre of it. If it is set throughout, it is 
done enough. It should be baked in a quick 
oven. Sift sugar over the top, tie a hot napkin 
round the tin, and serve immediately. The 
success of a souffle depends on the ingredients 
being well beaten, frothed, and mixed, on their 
being put into the dish ; on their being baked im- 
mediately afterwards ; on the sufficient tempera- 
ture of the oven; and on the rapid transfer of 
the souffle from the oven to the dining-room. 
Time to bake, about twenty minutes. 

Macaroni 

This is a peculiar paste or dough, prepared 
from wheat flour, and manufactured into tubes 
or ribbons. It is an Italian invention, and 
though made by a simple process, has never 
been produced with such success in any other 
country. 



668 VEGETABLES 

Macaroni Souffle 

Season a cupful of ricli cream sauce with 1 
teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, a dash of 
cayenne or paprika, and a few drops of onion 
juice, taking care not to use too much of the 
latter. Add 1 cupful of chopped boiled maca- 
roni, heat to boiling point, and stir in the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs. When the eggs have thickened, 
put the mixture away to cool. Beat the whites 
of the eggs very stiff and fold them into the 
cold macaroni, first beating it up lightly with 
a fork. Pour quickly into the buttered souffle 
dish, sprinkle lightly with fine bread crumbs, and 
bake in a hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Serve with mushroom or tomato sauce. Like 
all souffles it must be served the moment it is 
done. 

Macaroni Croquettes 

To 1 teacupful of boiled pipe macaroni add 
about 2 ounces of meat from a roast pheasant, 
partridge, hare, or any game, a slice of lean ham, 
a few mushrooms, or a truffle. Mince sepa- 
rately, and mix these ingredients together. 
Boil a breakfast-cupful of good white sauce 
until reduced to % of a pi'it; ^^^^ simmer in it 
for a few minutes 1 saltspoonful of shallot, 
chopped fine, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 of 
pepper and nutmeg, mixed; lastly, stir in 
2 or 3 yolks of eggs, and, when these 



VEGETABLES 669 

have set, the juice of % lemon. This sauce may 
now be thrown over the mince, mixed with it, 
and left to get cold, when egg-shaped balls may 
be made in a tablespoon, and completed by the. 
hand. Goat with egg and bread crumbs and fry 
in hot fat from eight to ten minutes. Serve 
with fried parsley as a garnish. 

Macaroni Timbales 

Boil 8 ounces of macaroni in the usual way, 
and drain them well. Have ready minced the 
white meat of a cold roast fowl and a slice or 
two of lean ham; mix with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
grated Parmesan, and moisten with nearly % 
pint of thick cream and the beaten yolks and 
whites of 3 eggs. Cover a well-buttered mould 
with some of the macaroni, and mix the re- 
mainder, cut into neat lengths, with the meat, 
with which mixture fill the mould, and steam for 
three-quarters of an hour. A pudding paste is 
sometimes substituted for the lining of maca- 
roni, but in either case steaming is better than 
boiling. Serve, turned out of the mould, and 
with a good gravy. 

Macaroni with Kidneys 

Boil 4 ounces of macaroni, but in veal broth 
instead of water. Skin 4 fine fresh mutton kid- 
neys, fry them lightly in butter, lift them from 
the stewpan, and mince them finely. Make a 



670 VEGETABLES 

gravy in the same pan, adding a dessertspoon- 
ful of brown flour, half a pint of rich stock, a 
couple of shallots, minced, and a pinch of cay- 
enne. Stew the minced kidneys in this gravy 
for ten minutes, when part of the macaroni, 
which should have been kept warm, may be 
mixed and tossed in the pan for a few minutes 
to absorb the gravy. Serve turned out on a hot 
dish, arrange the remainder of the macaroni on 
the top, and pour hot tomato sauce over. Time, 
one hour to prepare. 

Boiled Macaroni h IMtalienne 

Macaroni being a national article of food, the 
mode of cooking it is best understood in Italy. 
A better acquaintance with the Italian mode 
will, we hope, enable English cooks to convert 
a dish of macaroni into a wholesome and de- 
licious preparation, such as is met with on the 
Continent. Dishes of macaroni, with tomatoes, 
truffles, game, or fish, are ail good, and there is 
a great variety to be found. But one rule 
should be observed in the boiling of the maca- 
roni. The following recipe, if properly adhered 
to, will insure success : Put 5 or 6 ounces of the 
best Italian macaroni into plenty, of boiling 
water, not less than 3 pints, 1 saltspoonful of 
salt, and 1 of fine pepper; simmer for twenty 
minutes, and drain. After this first boiling, 



VEGETABLES 671 

which should be observed in the preparation of 
all dishes, return the macaroni to the stewpan, 
with % a pint of gravy or broth, according to 
the richness required, and simmer until the 
macaroni has imbibed all the liquid. Have 
ready grated of ^^armesan and Gruyere cheese, 
mixed, % of a pound. Put half the quantity 
with the macaroni until nearly melted, then add 
the rest, and 1 ounce of butter. Move the con- 
tents of the pan round in one direction until the 
cheese has been well incorporated and dissolved 
in the macaroni. Turn it out on a hot dish, and 
serve. In this way niacaroni is eaten at most 
of the best tables ^n Leghorn and Florence. 
Time, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for 
six or seven persons. 

Macaroni with Chestnuts 

Roast a dozen fine chestnuts in their shells, 
peel and pound them to a paste. Season with a 
small teaspoonful of salt, and put them with 
8 ounces of macaroni, previously boiled and 
drained, according to the recipe given for boil- 
ing macaroni, into a stewpan : add 3 ounces of 
butter and a large onion, uncut. Shake the 
whole well together, and stir round in the pan 
for ten or twelve minutes. If dry, pour in L 
tablespoonful of milk, and mix again until hot, 
when remove the onion, and dish the macaroni. 



672 VEGETABLES 

Brown lightly in the oven, or before the fire, 
well covered- with equal quantities of grated 
Parmesan and fine bread crumbs. Butter 
should be run over the top. 

Baked Macaroni 

Boil macaroni as for the ^Italian method; 
drain ; add 1 pint of hot milk, 1 tablespoonful 
of butter, and stir together, adding a little 
grated Parmesan. Turn this mixture into a 
buttered round agate baking-dish. Put little 
pieces of butter on top, and sprinkle over it 
Parmesan or other grated cheese. Bake thirty 
minutes and serve in dish in which it is baked, 
by placing it in a baking-disn form. 

Macaroni Nudels 

Nudel paste, like Italian macaroni, to which 
it is nearly allied, is a " home-made " prepa- 
ration of eggs and flour, useful in a variety of 
ways, and equally applicable to sweet and sav- 
ory dishes. It is made thus : Take as many 
eggs as will be required for the quantity of 
paste to be made, but use only the whites of 
eggs, if preferred quite white. "Work in as much 
flour to 2 well-beaten eggs as wUl make a stiff 
dough, knead until smooth, and roll out, first 
dividing the mass into six parts, and each part 
into a round ball, on a pasteboard kept well 
dredged with flour. A perfectly straight roll- 



t 

VEGETABLES 673 



ing-pin is one of the requisites to perfect nudel- 
making. The desired thinness to which the 
paste is to be rolled may be best illustrated 
by the saying, ' ' To arrive at the perfection 
of nudel-rolling is to be able tb read through the 
paste." Having accomplished this, dry each 
cake on a napkin — a few minutes will do this — 
commence with the first rolled cake by cutting 
it into equal halves and quarters. Lay one 
quarter on the other, make the cut edges meet 
equally, and with a sharp knife cut through in 
as thread-like a manner as possible, then dry; 
by scattering them they will separate; or the 
paste roUed, as before indicated, is cut with a 
tin-cutter into stars, rings, etc, which may be 
stamped out, and piled one cake on the other; 
they will separate on being thrown into boiling 
soup. Boil same as macaroni. 

Nudels Boiled in Milk 

Take % of a pound of freshly made nudels 
cut very fine and dried. Dissolve a little butter 
in a stewpan, put in the nudels, and shake the 
pan over the fire until they are well browned. 
Pour over them as flfuch good milk as will cover 
them well, and let them simmer gently until they 
are quite soft. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and 3 well-beaten eggs, steam a few minutes 
longer, and serve as hot as possible. Time to 



674 VEGETABLES 

boil the nudels, until soft, from ten to fifteen 
minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. 

Macaroni may also be prepared in this 
fashion. 

Buttered Nudels 

Throw the nudels into boiling water, and let 
them boil for three minutes. Take them up 
with a strainer, put them on a hot dish; melt 
some fresh butter in a stewpan; sprinkle a 
large handful of bread crumbs in it, and let 
them remain until they are lightly browned, 
then put them upon the nudels. Clarify a lit- 
tle more butter, if the first portion was dried up 
in browning the crumbs, and pour it over the 
dish ; serve very hot. Time, ten minutes to boil 
the nudels. 

Nudels with Parmesan, or au Gratin 

Make half a pound of flour into nudel paste, 
as directed in the last recipe. Cut it into strips, 
and boil these for ten minutes in 3 pints of 
water, slightly salted. Take them out, drain 
them, and put them into a stewpan, with 1 pint 
of milk or gravy, 1 ounce of butter, the eighth of 
a nutmeg grated, and a pinch of salt and pepper. 
Simmer gently until all the liquid has been ab- 
sorbed, then add another quarter of a pint of 
either cream or gravy, % of a pound of grated 
Farmesan, and another ounce of butter; shake 



VEGETABLES 675 

the pan over the fire, until the cheese is melted. 
Pile the mixture high in a buttered dish, 
sprinkle over it 1 ounce of grated Parmesan, 
1 tablespoonful of finely grated bread crumbs, 
and the yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg passed 
through a sieve and powdered. Place the dish 
in the oven for a few minutes, or hold a red-hot 
iron shovel over it until it is lightly colored, and 
serve as hot as possible. Time, altogether, an 
hour and a quarter. Sufficient for six or eight 
persons. 

Fritters of Neudel 
Make a pound of flour into nudel pastry, as 
already directed. Cut it into thin strips ; boil 
one pint and a half of cream or new milk in a 
saucepan. Dissolve in it 6 ounces of fresh but- 
ter, add 1/4 of a pound of loaf sugar which has 
been well rubbed upon the rind of a large fresh 
lemon, and a pinch of salt. Drop the pastry 
into the boiling liquid, and simmer gently for 
three-quarters of an hour, until it has become a 
stiff paste. Take it from the fire, and when it 
is cool, stir briskly in with it the well-beaten 
yolks of 6 eggs. Spread it out on a large but- 
^ tered baking-tin, about a quarter of an inch 
thick, and bake in a moderate oven; when 
brightly colored, take it out, divide it in halves, 
put one-half upon a large flat dish, spread some 
jam thickly over, place the other half upon, it, 



676 VEGETABLES 

pressing it lightly with the fingers, and when 
quite cold, stamp it in small shapes with an 
ordinary pastry-cutter. Serve neatly arranged 
on a napkin. These cakes should be prepared 
the day they are wanted for use, as they do not 
improve with keeping. Time to bake, twentv 
minutes. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. 

Vermicelli 

Vermicelli is a preparation of wheaten flour, 
of a substance similar to macaroni, the differ- 
ence between them being that the latter is made 
in larger tubes. It is fh the form of long 
threads, and derives its name from its worm- 
like appearance, as vermicelli means little 
worms. It is of Italian origin, and with maca- 
roni forms the principal food of the people in 
Italy. It is used amongst us in soups and 
broths, and for making puddings, «tc. 

Vermjcelii with Boiled Chicken 

Truss a tender chicken for boiling, put it into 
a stewpan with 2 pounds of the cushion of bacon 
into which 3 or 4 cloves have been stuck. Add 
a small piece of white roux, or, failing this, half 
an ounce of butter mixed smoothly with flour, 
pour over it as much white stock as will cover 
it, and let all stew gently together for three- 
quarters of a6 hour. Throw into the stock 2 
ounces of vermicelli, and boil it till tender. 



VEGgrAM.ES 677 

Take up the fowl and bacon, and place them in 
separate dishes. Skim the stock, and pour it 
with the vermicelli over the fowl. Serve very 
hot. Time, two hours. 

Spaghetti is the name given to second or me- 
dium-sized tubing. In their order come maca- 
roni, coarse ; spaghetti, medium, and vermicelli, 
very fine. Spaghetti can be prepared by any 
form given in recipes. 

Vermicelli ^ la Reine 

Blanch the vermicelli in boiling water, drain 
it, and throw it into some rich consomme well 
seasoned. When done, a short time before 
serving, thicken it with the yolks of 8 eggs mixed 
with cream, and pour the vermicelli into the 
tureen for fear the thickening should get too 
much done, which would be the case if it re- 
mained on the corner of the stove. 

Vermicelli with Milk 

Boil 1 quart of milk, and drop lightly into 
it 6 ounces of vermicelli which has been blanched 
in boiling water to free it from all impurities. 
Simmer gently, and stir frequently to keep it 
from getting into lumps. When tender 
sweeten it and send it to table. Time to boil the 
vermicelli, fifteen to twenty-five minutes, ac- 
cording to quality. 



678 VEGETABLES 

Oyster Plant ^ 

Oyster plant, which is the root of a'iplant 
sometimes called salsify and " purple goat's 
beard, ' ' is excellent when cooked. It is not so 
generally known as it deserves to be. It may 
be boiled and served with maitre d 'hotel, Dutch, 
onion, or Italian sauce. To prepare the roots 
for dressing, cut off the ends of each, and scrape 
off the outer rind till the flesh is reached, which 
somewhat resembles the parsnip in color and 
appearance. Rub them with lemon juice or 
vinegar, and throw them into cold water until 
they are to be boiled. They will be better for 
lying in it for an hour or two. Boil in salted 
water until tender ; drain and serve with sauce. 

Fried Oyster Plant 

Make a batter as follows : Take 6 spoonfuls 
of flour, a small pinch of salt, 1 spoonful of 
olive-oil, and beat the whole with milk enough 
to make it into batter, but do not make it too 
liquid. Then beat the whites of 2 eggs, and 
when well beaten pour them into the batter, 
which you must keep stirring gently. Next put 
the vegetables, that are done beforehand and 
well drained in a cloth, into the batter; take 
them out again one by one, and throw them into 
hot fat. When fried of a fine color and crisp, 
serve to table with fried parsle'y in the centre 
of the dish, and a little salt sprinkled over. 



VEGETABLES . 679 

Creamed Oyster Plant 

tstlie roots till tender, or take the rem- 
nants >bf dressed salsify, and divide them into 
inch lengths. Dissolve a slice of butter in a 
saucepan, and work into this as much flour as it 
will take. When the paste is quite smooth, and 
before it is at all colored, moisten with milk or 
cream, season with salt and cayenne, and stir 
it over the fire till it coats the spoon. Put in 
the slices of salsify, let them get hot, and dish 
in a pyramid form on a hot dish. Add a spoon- 
ful of lemon juice to the sauce, pour it over the 
roots, and garnish with fried sippets. Time al- 
together, one hour and a half. 

Broiled Mushrooms 

Select agarics or any good-sized mushrooms ; 
wash and remove the scales. Dry them on a 
clean towel, put them in a buttered double 
broiler, and broil for a few minutes on both 
sides. 

Have ready slices of freshly made, well-but- 
tered toast. Place the mushrooms on the 
toast, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put bits of 
butter on each, stand in the oven just long 
enough to melt the butter, and serve. 

A little crisp broiled bacon gives a good 
flavor. Put this crisped bacon on the slices of 
toast, and put the mushrooms on the top. 



680 . VEGETABLES 

Mushroom-and-Beefsteak Pie 

Chop 1 quart of mushrooms or cut them iu 
small pieces, season with salt and pepper, and 
add 1 pound of round steak chopped through 
the meat chopper, with a little onion run 
through the chopper at the same time. Add a 
little chopped suet or marrow, or a tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Mix all thoroughly, and stew 
slowly until tender with just enough water or 
good stock to keep it moist, keeping it closely 
covered. 

Make a good crust as for any meat pie, line a 
buttered baking-dish. Fill with the mushrooms 
and meat, season more if necessary, and have 
enough liquor to make a little gravy. Cover 
with a top crust, cut slashes in the top, and lay 
bits of butter over and bake in a rather hot 
oven until the crust is done and nicely browned. 
Serve at once in the dish in which it is baked. 

Cottager's Pie 

Cut fresh mushrooms in small pieces, sprinkle 
them with salt and pepper. Cut thin slices of 
nice bacon in small pieces, put them in the bot- 
tom of a rather shallow baking-dish; on these 
put a layer of the mushrooms, and over these a 
layer of finely mashed and well-seasoned pota- 
toes. Fill the dish in this way with a layer of 



VEGETABLES 681 

mashed potatoes on top. Put bits of butter on 
top, cover, and bake half an hour in a moder- 
ately hot /en. When nearly done remove the 
cover and brown the top. 

This makes a good dish to serve at lunch or 
for an informal supper, where no meat is to be 
served, or with cold meat, followed by a salad 
and dessert and coffee. A hot vegetable, like 
stewed tomatoes or creamed peas, may accom- 
pany it. 

Stewed Button Mushrooms 

Trim and rub clean with a cloth half a pint of 
large button mushrooms. Put 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a saucepan, shake over the fire until 
melted. Put in the mushrooms, season with 
salt and pepper, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
and a little mace. Simmer until tender, and 
serve at once on a hot dish with nice crisp toast. 
Or when the mushrooms are tender, add half a 
cupful of rich cream, cook for a few minutes, 
until thoroughly heated and blended, and serve 
on squares or rounds of buttered toast with 
boiled or scrambled eggs. 

Creamed Mushrooms 

Trim and rub off a half pint of button mush- 
rooms. Eub together 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter and 1 of flour ; cook this in a saucepan tmtil 
smooth, but not colored ; put in the mushrooms, 

44 



682 VEGETABLES 

add half a teaspoonful of salt, 14 teaspoonful of 
white pepper, and % a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered sugar, 14 a teaspoonful of very finely 
minced parsley. Cook ten minutes, stirring 
often. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, add 14 cupful 
of cream, and add gradually to the mushrooms, 
stirring all the time. Cook two minutes and 
serve on a hot platter garmshed with small po- 
tato croquettes, or on hot rounds of buttered 
toast. 

Mushroom Ragout 
Put in a stewpan 3 cupfuls of good stock, 
either chicken or brown stock as desired; add 
1 spoonful of vinegar, 1 spoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, 2 small onions sliced thin. 
Add salt and paprika, a little mace or nutmeg. 
Bring to a boil and put in 1 pint of well-cl©aned 
mushrooms. Cook very slowly until the mush- 
rooms are tender—no longer; beat the yolks 
of 2 eggs, mix it with a little milk or some of 
the broth of the ragout. Pour it in gradually, 
stirring quickly, and remove from the fire and 
serve. It must not boil after the eggs are added. 

Escalloped Mushrooms 

Prepare either small button mushrooms, or if 
large ones slice them and cook in a covered 
saucepan with water enough to barely cover ; a 
little vinegar added to the water will hasten the 



^ VEGETABLES 683 

cookiiig. When they have simmered until ten- 
der, add to a pint of mushrooms 1 pint of milk 
and bring to a boil. Season well with salt and 
pepper. Butter a baking-dish, and put a layer 
of cracker crumbs on the bottom ; put in a layer 
of the mushrooms, with bits of butter scattered 
over, then another layer of crumbs and mush- 
room, finishing with crumbs on the top. Pour 
over all the liquor and milk in which the mush- 
rooms were cooked, put bits of butter on the top 
and dust with salt and pepper, and bake until 
the top is well browned. Serve in the sanie 
dish. 

Parisienne potatoes fried a golden brown 
may acconipany the dish. Heap the balls in a 
mound on a pretty platter and garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Mushrooms with Bacon 

Fry a few slices of nice bacon, if well-streaked 
with lean so much the better. When almost 
done ttlm into them 1 dozen or more good-sized 
mushrooms, that have been cleaned in the usual 
way. Fry very slowly until tender. The 
mushrooms will absorb nearly all the bacon fat, 
and make a nice breakfast relish. 

Baked Mushrooms 

Peel the tops of 20 good-sized mushrooms. 
Cut off a portion of the stalks, wipe the re- 



684 VEGETABLES 

maining portion with salt on a flannel cloth. 
Put them in a baking-dish, pour a little melted 
butter over them, season with salt and white 
pepper, and 2 tablespoonfuls of madeira wine ; 
cover and bake iu a rather slow oven twenty 
to thirty minutes. As soon as done pile the 
mushrooms on a hot dish, and serve quickly with 
the sauce poured around them. 

Mushroom Catsup 

Gather large flap mushrooms for this purpose 
in the month of September. If the weather be 
showery, wait until the mushrooms have had a 
few hours of sunshine, for no water should enter 
into the composition of catsup. Break into an 
earthenware pan as many mushrooms as it will 
hold. Let them be clean, and quite free from 
grit or dirt, and that portion of the stem should 
be removed to which the soil adheres. Sprinkle 
salt among them, and put a layer over the top 
(from 6 to 8 ounces will be enough for a peck of 
mushrooms). Cover them for two days, occa- 
sionally stirring them during the time, then 
strain through a sieve without giving the mush- 
rooms any pressure. To each quart of the juice 
so gained allow three blades of mace, i/^ an 
ounce of black peppercorns, the same of sliced 
ginger, with half the quantity of allspice, a few 
cloves, and more salt if required. Boil the juice 



VEGETABLES 685 

for fifteen minutes, uncovered, and before put- 
ting in the spice ; add the spice, and boil twenty 
minutes more. Fill bottles when quite cold. 
Wax the corks to exclude the air. 

Pickled Mushrooms 

Select small, sound pasture mushrooms, as 
nearly uniform in size as possible. Let them 
stand for half an hour in cold water, then 
drain, cut off the stalks and rub gently with a 
soft moist flannel dipped in salt to remove the 
outer skin. Bring to a boil sufficient vinegar 
to cover the amount of mushrooms, adding to 
each quart of vinegar 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 
half a grated nutmeg, a blade or two of mace, 
and a few peppercorns. 

Put in the mushrooms and simmer very gently 
for ten minutes, then pour them into small jars 
with the spices evenly distributed through 
them. Let them stand for a day, then cover and 
screw on the caps of the jars. 

Boiled Parsnips 

Wash and scrape the parsnips, and carefully 
remove any blemishes there may be about them. 
,Cut them into quarters, and ^ihrow them into a 
saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Let 
them boil quickly, until they are sufficiently ten- 
der of skin to pierce, them easily, then drain 
and send to table as quickly as possible. 



686 VEGETABLES 



Parsnips Browned under Roast Meat 

Boil the parsnips until tender, according to 
the directions given above. Drain well, sprinkle 
si little salt and pepper over them, put them m 
the dripping-pan under the joint they are to 
accompany, and let them remain until they are 
nicely browned. Send them to table in a dish 
by themselves, with two or three round the meat 
as a garnish. 

Fried Parsnips 

BoU 4 or 5 large parsnips. Drain them well, 
and cut them either into rounds or long slices, a 
quarter of an inch thick. Dip them into frying 
batter, and fry them in hot lard or dripping 
until they are lightly browned on both sides. 
Drain well, and serve very hot, as an accom- 
paniment to roasted joints or fowls. Make bat- 
ter same as for oyster plant. 

Boiled String Beans 

Only the ends and stalks require to be taken 
off when the beans are very young, and no mode 
of cooking can make very old ones eatable. Put 
them, as they are prepared, into cold water. 
They are cut, according to taste, lengthwise into_^ 
thin strips or obliquely into a lozenge form. 
The strings shpuld be drawn off with the tops 
and stalks when they are come to their proper 
growth. Put them into a large saucepan of 



VEGETABLES 687 

boiling water, slightly salted; allow the steam 
to escape, and keep boiling very fast until ten- 
der. Time, fifteen minutes if young; twenty 
to twenty-five minutes if old. 
Serve with butter or a cream sauce. 

String Beans with Gravy 

Dissolve four ounces of butter in a pan, and 
stir into it 3 ounces of flour till it becomes brown 
and quite smooth. Mix a little gravy and sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Take any 
quantity of this ; and simmer in it the beans, 
previously boiled, for twenty minutes. Allow 
1 quart, for six or seven persons. 

The method applied to string beans can also 
be applied to butter beans and lima beans. 

Beans, French (a la Maitre d'Hdtel) 

Prepare and boil 1 pound of beans in the 
usual manner; see that they are well drained 
from the water. Keep them hot, and when dry 
put them into a stewpan with 2 ounces of 
melted butter, half a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Shake the pan over a brisk fire, mix well, 
and serve hot in eight minutes. Sufficient for 
four persons. 

String Beans with Cream Sauce 

Boil beans (see Boiled String Beans), drain, 
and return to saucepan. Eub a tablespoonful 



688 VEGETABLES 

of butter and flour to a paste cream by gradu- 
ally adding 1/2 pi^it of cream or milk. Season 
with salt, pepper, and a dash of nutmeg, also 
paprika or red pepper. Pour over beans and 
bring to a boil, then serve. 

Haricot (Lima) Beans (a la Maitre d'Hdtel) 

For the sake of variety haricot beans may, if 
liked, be cooked as follows : Put 2 quarts of 
water into a stewpan, with half a teaspoonful of 
salt. When boiling, throw into it 1 pint of 
freshly shelled beans, and let them simmer 
gently until soft. Drain them, and put them 
into a saucepan with an ounce of fresh butter^ 
a little pepper and salt, a dessertspoonful of 
scalded and chopped parsley, and a tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice. Shake the saucepan ovei 
the fire till thej^ are well mixed, and serve as hot 
as possible. Time, two hours or more. 

Boiled Haricot (Small Dried Lima) Beans 

Wash and pick the beans, and soak them in 
cold water overnight. Drain thenar, and put 
them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water ; 
add a pinch of salt, and let them simmer gently 
until tender. Pour the water from them, let 
them stand by the fire, shaking them once or 
twice to assist their drying, then add a small 
piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt, and 



VEGETABLES 689 

serve as hot as possible. Time, two hours to 
boil. Sufficient, one pint for three or four per- 
sons. 

Haricot Beans with Onions 

Wash 1 pint of beans in two or three waters, 
pick out any discolored ones that there may be, 
and leave them to soak in plenty of cold water 
until the next day. Drain them, and boil them 
in fresh water until they are tender, but un- 
broken. Drain them once more, and put them 
on a dish in the oven to keep warm. Take 3 
ounces of onions, which have been three-parts 
boiled and chopped small, fry these in 2 ounces 
of butter, and, whilst frying, mix with them the 
boiled beans. Stir them about with a fork, and 
moisten with a quarter of a pint of good brown 
gravy, rather highly seasoned. This is an ex- 
cellent accompaniment to roast meat. Time, an 
hour and a half to boil the beans. Sufficient for 
four or five persons. 

Lima Beans h la Poulette 

Boil 1 quart of young beans over a quick 
fire until nearly done ; then put them into a stew- 
pan with a little sugar, half a pint of stock, 
cream or milk, and a tablespoonful of butter, 
pepper and salt at discretion. Before begin- 
ning to stew see that the beans are well drained 
from the water in which they were boiled. Stew 
until half the liquor is absorbed, and just as they 



690 VEGETABLES 

are on the point of simmering beat up the yolk 
of an egg with a quarter of a pint of cream, and 
add it to them. Time, ten minutes to boil; 
fifteen to stew. Sufficient for five or six per- 
sons. 

Mashed Beans 

This is the only way in which old beans may 
be cooked to advantage. They should be first 
boiled in the ordinary way fully half an hour, 
by which time the skins will have burst, and they 
may be easily removed. Mash them with the 
back of a wooden spoon until quite smooth, then 
put them back into the stewpan with a little 
sugar, butter, pepper, and salt. Add a cupful 
of whipped cream — or 2 eggs well beaten — 
whip the whole until very light ; place in baking- 
dish and brown in quick oven ; serve in pudding 
form. 

Fricasseed Beans 

Take one pint of either fresh or dry white 
kidney beans. Eemove the skins ; and in order 
to do this, the beans, if dry, must be soaked in 
water for ten or twelve hours, and afterwards 
boiled until tender, when the skins will slip off. 
If fresh, they must be put into scalding water 
for a minute, and the skins peeled off. Put the 
beans into a saucepan, add as much good veal 
stock as will cover them, with a teaspoonful of 
salt, a quarter of a teaspoqnful of pepper, the 



VEGETABLES 69J 

eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a large bunch 
of parsley, a small one of thyme, and a piece of 
fresh butter, rolled in flour. Simmer gently f Or 
fifteen minutes ; then take out the herbs, and put 
into the sauce a glass of sherry. Let it boil, 
then draw it from the fire a minute to cool, and 
stir into it the yolks of 2 eggs, mixed with half 
a cupful of thick creani and the strained juice 
of half a lemon. Serve on a hot dish, and gar- 
nish with French beans, pickled. Time, half 
an hour to stew the beans after the skins have 
been taken off. Sufficient for three or four 
persons. 

Polenta 
Soak 1 pint dried beans overnight. Put to 
boil in cold salted water; when cooked drain, 
and press through a fine colander into a sauce- 
pan; add 1% tablespoonfuls molasses, 1 tablie- 
spoonful butter, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, a 
dash of cayenne, a dash or two of ground 
mustard, beating continuously, and last add 1 
tablespoonful of yinegar. Serve in vegetable 
dish very hot. Cold polenta can be utilized by 
cutting in slices % inch thick, or % inch cubes ; 
dip in egg, then bread or cracker crumbs, fry in 
boiling fat, drain, and serve. 

Red Kidney Beans (Swedish Method) 

Put 1 quart of beans into cold water ; add 1 
teaspoonful salt and cook until tender. Then 



692 VEGETABLES 

add 2 tablespoonfuls of syrup, and thicken with 
1 tablespoonful of potato flour, or corn starch 
diluted in water. Stir over the fire until the 
liquid is of a creamy consistency, and serve. 
These are also palatable when cold. 

Boston Baked Beans 

See Pork and Beans. 

Curried Lentils 

Soak a half pint of red lentils in water for 
three or four hours. Drain off the water. 
Put in a saucepan 1 ounce of butter and 1 onion 
sliced thin; cook until a nice brown; add the 
lentils and 1 pint of boiling water, and simmer 
one hour; then add the juice of I/2 a lemon, 1 
dessertspoonful of curry powder, salt, and pep- 
per, cook ten. minutes longer, and serve with 
boiled rice. 

Peas 

A no • less famous woman than Madame 
Maintenon of the court of Louis XIV. is said 
to have written concerning peas: " The impa- 
tience to eat them, the pleasure to have eaten 
them, and the delight to eat them again, are the 
three points our princes talk about. ' ' 

Like all green vegetables peas should be as 
fresh from the vines as possible; " an hour 
from the vines to the table " is the time one au- 



VEGETABLES 693 

thority gives. Since this is possible only when 
one has a kitchen garden to draw from during 
the season, the best one can do is to take all pos- 
sible care to preserve the original freshness 
and flavor. Green peas should never be washed 
after shelling as many cooks do. There is no 
more need for washing than for washing a 
banana after peeling, for the pea is perfectly 
protected by the pod from any dust or migra- 
tory germ. Wash the pods thoroughly before 
shelling, however. A few - of the pods may 
then be boiled in with the peas to add to the 
flavor. 

When peas have been too long picked and the 
pods are at all withered they may be soaked 
for an hour in cold water, and shelled immedi- 
ately before cooking. They should be put into 
boiling water enough to cover, and kept boiling 
steadily, uncovered, to retain their color. 
When peas are full grown a little sugar added 
while boiling frequently improves the flavor. 

French and English cooks frequently add a 
sprig of mint to the peas while cooking, epi- 
cures affirming that there is a natural affinity 
between the two. 

In using canned peas the mistake should not 
be made of cooking them in the water in which 
they were canned. It should always be drained 
off and the peas cooked in fresh boiling water. 



694 VEGETABLES 

To boil young peas, cook without salt until 
tender, about fifteen minutes ; then add salt and 
cook five minutes longer; drain and serve. 

To Boil Green Peas 

Green peas, when gathered young, shelled just 
before they are cooked, and dressed properly, 
are amongst the most delicious of vegetables. 
If they are very unequal in size, they should be 
shaken through a coarse sieve, and the smaller 
ones put into the water ten minutes after the 
large ones. Throw them into plenty of fast- 
boiling water, to which a tablespoonful of salt 
has been added, and keep the pan uncovered 
until the peas are tender. Taste them to ascer- 
tain when they are sufficiently cooked. Drain 
the water from them. Put them into a clean 
pan with a slice of butter, a little salt, and a 
teaspoonful of sugar, and toss them over the 
fire a minute or two, then serve. A sprig of 
mint is often boiled with peas ; this is by some 
considered an improvement, and by others quite 
the reverse. 

Great care should be taken not to put 
much soda with peas. • If the water is very 
hard, a tiny piece may be put in, but too much 
would quickly reduce them to a pulp. Time, ac- 
cording to the age and size : young green peas, 
fifteen or twenty minutes. 



VEGETABLES 595 



A French Mode of Cooking Green Peas 

Melt one ounce of fresh, butter in a saucepan. 
When it is dissolved without being the least 
colored, throw in a quart of peas. Shake them 
over the fire for a minute or two, then pour over 
them as mucb boiling water or weak stock as 
will barely cover them; add half a teaspoonful 
of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, the heart 
of a lettuce finely sbred, 3 young. onions, and a 
small sprig of parsley. Simmer gently until 
the peas are tender. Take the saucepan from 
the fire for a minute, and in order to thicken the 
sauce stir in the well-beaten yolk^ of 3 eggs. 
The peas must not boil up after the eggs are 
added. Serve the peas on a hot dish with the 
sauce poured over them. Time, half an hour. 
Sufficient for four or five persons. 



Stewed Green Peas 

Put the shelled peas into a stewpan, with 
half a dozen young onions, 2 cabbage-lettuces 
cut into small pieces, a handful of parsley, a 
teaiapoonful of powdered sugar, and a little salt. 
Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents 
stew gently over a slow fire for about half an 



696 VEGETABLES 

hour. If the lettuces and peas do not yield suf- 
ficient water a tablespoonful may be added, but 
if they are simmered gently this will in all prob- 
ability be unnecessary. Shake the stewpan" oc- 
casionally, that all may be equally cooked. Mix 
2 ounces of butter smoothly -with a dessertspoon- 
ful of fiour, and when the peas are tender put 
the mixture into the saucepan with them. 
Shake them over the fire for three or four min- 
utes until the butter is melted, then turn them 
upon a hot dish, and serve immediately. If pre- 
ferred, 1 egg beaten up with 1 tablespoonful of 
water may be substituted for the butter. 

Green Peas a la Crfeme 

Boil a pint of newly shelled, fresh young peas 
in the usual way. Drain them in a colander 
until quite dry. Mix an ounce of butter and a 
teaspoonful of flour smoothly together, over 
the fire ; add a quarter of a pint of good, sweet 
cream ; when it boils, put in the peas for two or 
three minutes, and serve as hot as possible. 
Time, half an hour, altogether. Sufficient for 
three or four persons. 

Pur6e of Peas 

Boil peas as per previous recipe ; when ten- 
der, drain and dredge through a sieve; melt 1 
tablespoonful of butter; sift in 1 tablespoonful 
of flour, stir in and season with salt and pepper. 



VEGETABLES 697 

Stir in % cupful of % milk and % cream, and 
beat until very light. 

Baked Pur6e 

The above puree can be put into a baking- 
dish and served in baking-dish form and sent to 
the table. 

Stewed Peas in Turnip Cups 

Select small or medium-sized turnips; pare 
and cook them in slightly salted water until 
tender, then with a spoon or vegetable scoop 
hollow out the centre, leaving a wall half an inch 
or more in thickness. Put these in a shallow 
baking-dish or pie-plate to keep hot, with a bit 
of butter and pepper in the bottom of each cup. 

While these are cooking have also 1 pint of 
shelled fresh peas, pour over them sufficient 
boiling water to cover and boil until tender — 
from twenty to thirty minutes. If the peas are 
not very sweet, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar while 
boiling. Let the water evaporate until the 
peas are nearly dry. When done, season with 
salt and pepper, add 1 tablespoonful of butter 
rubbed smooth with 1 rounded teaspoonful of 
flour and 2 tablespoonf uls of cream ; stir until 
it thickens, and fill the turnip ciips. 

Have a hot platter ready, and when ready to 
serve them lift the cups carefully on to the 
platter with a spatula, taking care that they 
45 



698 VEGETABLES 

are not broken. Garnish with sprigs of pars- 
ley, and serve. 

Canned peas may be used instead of the 
fresh ones. 

Corn 

Green corn should not be husked until shortly 
before cooking. If it is to be kept from one day 
to another it should be put in the refrigerator 
or in some cool place, bijt to be at its best it 
should be picked just before it is to be used. 
Remove the husks and carefully take off all the 
silk. Put the ears in rapidly boiling water and 
boil five minutes. Remove at once from the 
water and serve on a napkin, throwing the 
corners ovei;, to prevent the escape of steam. 
Corn must never stand in the water after it is 
done; it becomes watery and discolored and 
loses its flavor. It may, however, be kept hot 
for a time by taking it out of the water in which 
it was boiled, putting it in a pan that will allow 
it to lie flat, and covering it with hot milk and 
keeping it hot in the oven or on the back of the 
range. 

Escailoped Corn 

Butter a baking-dish and put in a layer of 
cracker crumbs, then a layer of canned com, 
with salt and bits of butter; alternate the 
crackers and corn to the top of the dish, finish- 
ing with crackers. Pour in enough milk to 



VEGETABLES 699 

come to the top; bake three-quarters of an 

hour. 

Corn Pudding 

To 1 pint of corn (if canned press it through a 

colander; if fresh, cut very fine from the ear) 

add 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of flour, butter 

(melted) the size of an egg, 1 pint of milk, salt 

and sugar so as to be neither salt nor sweet in 

excess, and a little pepper. Bake in a greased 

dish until the custard is set or the handle of a 

silver spoon will come out clean. Serve with 

broiled chops or steaks or with roast lamb. 

Corn Fritters 

One dozen ears of sweet corn grated, 3 eggs, 2 
tablespoonfuls of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
and a little pepper. Bake in small cake:! on 
griddle with plenty of butter. Serve hot. 

Succotash 

Wash 1 pint shelled (green) lima beans, par- 
boil about ten minutes, pour off water, add hot 
water, and boil about fifteen minutes longer. 
Cut com from 6 or 8 good-sized ears and add 
to the beans. Boil one-half hour or until ten- 
der. Add salt, pepper, and about 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter. Care must be taken to prevent the 
mixture from burning. Scrape the milk from 
the cob after having cut the corn. 



700 VEGETABLES 

Green Corn Souffle 

Score lengthwise and cut from the cob enough 
tender green corn to make 1 cupful of pulp. 
Add to this 1 cupful of rich cream or milk with 
1 tablespoonful of butter. Season well with 
salt and white pepper. Add the beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs, and cook in a double boiler until 
creamy, stirring all the while. Let the mixture 
cool and stir in lightly the stiffly beaten whites 
of 4 eggs, turn into a buttered dish and bake 
twenty minutes in a rather hot oven. 

Roasting Ears 

A good way to boil roasting ears is to put on 
a pot of boiling water and " break " it with a 
little soda, skim the water, and put in another 
vessel in order to get all the lime out of it. Add 
1 teaspoonful of granulated sugar, several 
pinches of salt, and, when the water comes to a 
boil, put in the roasting ears, cover tightly, and 
boil furiously till thoroughly heated through — 
from fifteen to twenty minutes — and serve hot. 

Creamed Corn 

Cut the corn from the cob; put it into a sauce- 
pan, covering it with milk. Put in one table- 
spoonful of sugar, and let it boil slowly for ten 
minutes; add an even teaspoonful of salt, of 
white pepper one-quarter teaspoonful ; and add 
it to the dish with 1 tablespoonful of butter 



VEGETABLES 70J 

mixed with one-half tablespoonful of flour. 
Cook for a few minutes; stirring constantly. 
If not seasoned sufficiently the taste may be 
regulated by adding salt. Dried corn soaked 
overnight may be treated in the above manner. 

Green Corn Omelet 

4 good-sized ears of corn; 5 eggs; 2 table- 
spoonfuls cream; 14 teaspoonful salt; a little 
pepper; 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Score lengthwise and scrape out the pulp of 
the corn. Beat the eggs, yolks and whites sep- 
arately. Mix well together the corn, cream, 
yolks of eggs, and the seasoning, and give them 
a brisk beating for a minute or two. Put the 
butter in the omelet pan and while it is heating, 
add the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs to the 
other ingredients, folding them in lightly; pour 
it into the hot butter and cook as any omelet, 
raising the centre with a broad knife and tip- 
ping the pan to let all the uncooked part reach 
the hot pan. As soon as nicely browned and 
evenly cooked, fold over, turn out on a hot plat- 
ter, and serve at once. 

Fried Corn 

Cut the corn carefully from 6 ears of nice 
sweet corn. Do not score, and be careful not to 
cut any of the cob with the corn, but have each 
grain separate. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter 



702 VEGETABLES 

in a feying-pan; put in the corn and fry until 

a nice brown, stirring often. Draw the pan 

away from the hot fire, add half a cupful of hot 

cream, and salt and pepper to taste. Serve at 

once in a hot dish. Nice for breakfast or 

lunch. 

Old-Fashioned Roasted Corn 

•Strip all the husks from the ears except the 

last layer. Make a clean place in front of a 

wood fire in the ashes ; lay the corn on the ashes 

and turn as fast as one side is done until roasted 

on all sides. Serve with salt and pepper. It 

can also be roasted over hot coals on a wire 

broiler or gridiron, by watching carefully and 

turning often so that it does not burn. If 

burned it will be bitter. 

Broiled Green Corn 

Split the cobs ; brush with melted butter and 

lay on a broiler. Broil for eight minutes until 

cooked; dust with salt; arrange in napkin, and 

serve. 

Beets 

In cutting off the tops of the beets leave an 

inch or two of the stems, and wash thoroughly, 

but do not bruise the skins or the juice will be 

extracted in boiling, and both the color and the 

sweetness will be lost. Boil until tender, throw 

them into cold water for a few minutes, and the 

skins will rub off easily. 



^ VEGETABLES 703 

Young beets are served either whole or 
sliced with melted butter poured over them. 
Shake over salt and pepper, and serve hot. Or 
use them either in slices or whole ; if small, for 
garnishing and for salads. 

Young Ijeets wiU cook in an hour or less, but 
old ones will often require two hours. 

Beet Greens with Young Beets 

Select young beets when they are not larger 
than an English walnut; the tops will then be 
just the right age to be tender and sweet. Wash 
thoroughly iu several waters and examine each 
leaf for lurking worms. If one water through 
which it is passed is strongly salted, it will cause 
his wormship to leave the leaf at once. Be 
careful not to break the tender skin of the beet, 
or the rich red juice will be lost in cooking. 

Put them m enough slightly salted boiling 
water to well cover them and boil quickly until 
tender; it should require from thirty to forty- 
five minutes. Take them out of the kettle when 
done and plunge the beets only, not the tops, 
into very cold water, and the skins will very 
readily rub off with the fingers. Drain the 
greens and cut them up, not too fine; add a 
plenty of melted butter, a tablespoonful of vin- 
egar or lemon juice, and pepper and salt. Mix 
lightly with a silver fork, arrange them on a 



704 VEGETABLES 

shallow, hot dish or platter, cut the beets in 
halves and lay them in a border around the 
greens. To make the dish more ornamental the 
beets may be alternated with slices of hard- 
boiled egg, and a mayonnaise or boiled dressing 
passed with or poured over it. 

Creamed Beets 

Use the small white beets; cook in boiling 
water until tender ; put them in cold water and 
rub off the skins; put them in a saucepan and 
pour over them a rich cream sauce; let them 
heat thoroughly, and serve in a hot dish. 

Boiled Beets 

This root is excellent as a salad, and, as a 
garnish for other salads, it is very important 
on account of its beautiful bright color. In 
cleansing it before boiling, take care not to 
I break the skin, or it will lose its color and be- 
come sickly-looking. Remove it from the sauce- 
pan carefully, peel and trim nicely. Serve, cut 
in slices, with melted butter in a tureen. Large 
beets take from two to three hours to boil. 

Pickled Beets 

Boil half an ounce of peppercorns, cloves, 
mace, and ginger, in a pint of vinegar, add an- 
other pint when cold. Take 6 beetroots, after 
they have been well cleansed, and boil them 
gently for two hours. When cold, peel, slice, 



VEGETABLES 705 

and put into a jar with the cold vinegar and 
spice. It is fit for use at once. 

Fried Egg-Plant 

Wipe the egg-plant, cut in i/4-inch slices, soak 
in salted cold water one hour. Dip each slice 
in beaten egg and crumbs and fry until the in- 
side is very soft and the outside brown. 

Baked Egg-Plant 

Remove the stalk but not the skin, wash, cut 
into halves, put on in boiling water and boil till 
partly tender (about one-half hour), drain, cut 
into small pieces, and season with salt, pepper, 
and plenty of butter. Place in baking-dish with 
thick layer of bread crumbs and more butter. 
Bake till brown in a quick oven and serve in the 
same dish. 

Egg-Plant Puffs or Fritters 

Pare, cut in pieces, soak in ,cold water, and 
boil until tender. Drain, press through a col- 
ander. Make the regulation fritter batter, sea- 
son the egg-plant and beat it into the batter. 
Drop in spoonfuls into boiling fat ; cook golden 
brown. Drain, and serve with parsley garni- 
ture. 

Egg-Plant Stuffed with Nuts 

Boil the plant until tender, scoop out the pulp ; 
chop fine 1 cupful hickory or other nuts ; add 1 



706 VEGETABLES 

tablespoonful butter, season with salt and pep- 
per; add 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs and 2 
eggs well beaten. Fill shell with mixture, and 
bake one hour. 

To Dress Celery 

Cut off the end of the root, leaving the white 
part; wash it very carefully, trim away all the 
decayed leaves and outer stalks, and if the root 
be very thick, split it into quarters. Send it to 
table in a celery glass half filled with cold water. 
Curl the top leaves by drawing the point of a 
skewer through them, dividing them into strips 
about 5 inches from the top. 

Boiled Celery 

Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, with 
a little salt in it. Wash the celery carefully. 
Cut off the outer leaves, make the stalks even, 
and lay them in small bunches. Throw these 
into the water, and let them boil gently until 
tender, leaving the saucepan uncovered. When 
done, drain, and place them on a piece of toast 
which has been dipped in the liquid. Pour over 
them a little good white sauce, and serve. 
Time: young celery, three-quarterfe of an hour; 
old, one hour and a half. 

Stewed Celery a la Crfeme 

Wash very clean 2 heads of celery, trim them 
neatly, cutting off the outer stalks, the leaves, 



VEGETABLES 707 

and the tops; cut in desired lengths, and boil 
them in salt and water until tender. Drain them 
and put them in a dish. Have ready in another 
saucepan a breakfast-cupful of good cream. Let 
it boil, with a piece of butter rolled in flbur, till 
it is thick and smooth ; then pour it over the cel- 
ery, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve. 
Time to boil the celery, from three-quarters of 
an hour to one hour and a half. Sufficient for 
four persons. > 

To Fry Celery 
Cold boiled celery will answer for this pur- 
p(^e. Split 3 or 4 heads, dip the pieces into 
clarified butter, and fry them until they are 
lightly browned; lay them on some blotting- 
paper for a minute to drain off the fat, and pile 
them like sugar biscuits on a napkin. Garnish 
the dish prettily with parsley. They may be 
dipped in batter before frying, and served with 
white sauce, or with good brown sauce made 
with the gravy in which they were boiled. Time 
to fry, ten minutes. 

Carrots h la Flamande 

Take young carrots (which alone are suitable) , 
wash them well, cut off the heads and points, 
and place them in boiling water for five min- 
utes. Take them out, drain, rub off the skin 
with" a coarse cloth, cut them into very thin 



708 VEGETABLES 

slices or star shapes, and put them into a sauce- 
pan with a cupful of water, a little salt and pep- 
per, and a piece of butter the size of a small 
egg. Cover them closely, and simmer gently 
for twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasion- 
ally in order that they may be equally cooked. 
Mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 cupful of cream, 
and 1 dessertspoonful of finely chopped pars- 
ley. Draw the pan from the fire for a couple 
of minutes, taking off the cover; put a table- 
spoonful or two of the liquid with the eggs and 
cream, then pour the whole gradually into the 
saucepan. Stir the sauce until it thickens, ^nd 
serve the carrots with the sauce poured over 
them. Time to stew the carrots, half an hour. 

Boiled Carrots 

Wash and prepare the carrots. If they are 
very large they should be halved and sliced. 
Throw them into plenty of boiling water with 
salt in it, keep them boiling, and when a fork 
can be easily pushed into them they are ready. 
They may be boiled in the same saucepan with 
beef, and a few should be placed rpund the dish 
and the rest sent to table in a tureen. White 
sauce generally accompanies them. Many per- 
sons are fond of cold carrots with cold beef. 
They may be easily wanned up by covering 
them closely and putting the dish in which they 



VEGETABLES 709 

are placed into boiling water. Time : young car- 
rots, half an hour ; fully-grown, from one and a 
half to two hours. 

Stewed Carrots in Cream 

Wash and slice some large carrots, and sim- 
mer them in as much weak broth as will cover 
them till they are nearly tender, then add a cup- 
ful of milk or cream, and thicken the sauce with 
flour and butter. Season it with pepper and 
salt. Keep stirring the contents of the saucepan 
to prevent them burning. Put the carrots into 
a hot vegetable dish, and pour the gravy over 
them. Time, one hour and a half. Sufficient, 
six large carrots for five persons. 

To Dress Carrots in the German Way 

Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan. Lay 
in it 6 carrots cut into thin slices, with a little 
salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful 
of finely minced onion. Let them remain until 
tender, adding every now and then, as it is re- 
quired, a little water or stock. Thicken the 
sauce with a little flour, and about a quarter of 
an hour before serving add one tablespoonful 
of finely minced parsley. Time, one hour. 
Sufficient for five or six persons. 

Scalloped Asparagus 

Boil a bunch of asparagus in salted water 
until tender, — do not use any of the tough part 



710 VEGETABLES 

of the stalk; the lower ends need not be thrown 
away, however, but should be put aside, and 
on the day following they may be boiled until 
soft enough to put through the puree sieve, when 
the pulp will make a cream soup, or can be used 
for a sauce. 

Boil hard 3 eggs, throw them into cold water, 
and when cool chop them. Have ready 1 cupful 
of grated Edam cheese. Butter a baking-dish, 
put in a layer of asparagus, one of the chopped 
eggs, then one of cheese, filling the dish with the 
asparagus on top. Have ready 1 pint of drawn 
butter or milk gravy seasoned with salt and pep- 
per ; pour this gradually over the asparagus, so 
that it will reach all parts of it. Cover the top 
with fine bread crumbs and sprinkle lightly with 
the cheese. 

Bake until nicely browned. This may be pre- 
pared from asparagus left over from the day 
before. 

Boiled Asparagus 

Choose bunches of asparagus which have the 
cut fresh and the heads straight. If the cut 
end is brown and dry, and the heads bent on one 
side, the asparagus is stale. It may be kept a 
day or two with the stalks in cold water, but is 
much better fresh. Scrape off the white skin 
from the lower end, and cut the stalks of equal 
length. Let them lie in cold water untU it is 



VEGETABLES 7JJ 

time to cook them. Put a handful of salt into a 
gallon of water and let it boil. \ Tie the aspara- 
gus in bundles and put them into it. Toast a 
slice of bread brown on each side, dip it in the 
water, and lay it on a dish. When the aspara- 
gus is sufficiently cooked,, dish it on the toast, 
serving with drawn butter sauce, or HoUan- 
daise. 

Fricasseed Asparagus 

Wash a quarter of a hundred heads of aspar- 
agus, cut off the tender portion, and lay them 
into cold water until they are required. Drain 
them, and chop them with a young lettuce, half 
a head of endive, and a small onion. Put a 
piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce- 
pan, melt it, then mix with it smoothly a des- 
sertspoonful of flour and half a pint of stock. 
Add the chopped vegetables, with pepper and 
salt, and let all stew gently until the sauce is 
thick and good. Serve hot. Time to stew, half 
an hour. 

Asparagus h la Crtme 

Take off about two inches of the head-ends of 
the asparagus ; cut them into pieces about the 
size of peas, and put them into a saucepan with 
some cold salt and water. Let them boil about 
ten minutes; then take them out, drain them, 
melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a 
saucepan, and place them in it. Shake the 



712 VEGETABLES 

saucepan over the fire for a few miniites ; then 
sprinkle a dessertspoonful of flour over it, and 
a small teacupful of boiling water, pepper and 
salt to taste, and pour over the asparagus the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, mixed with 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of new milk. Let all simmer gently for five 
or ten minutes ; then serve. Time, half an hour. 
Allow a hundred for a tureenful. Sufficient for 
five or six persons. 

Stewed Jerufalem Artichokes 

Peel the artichokes and put them at once into 
vinegar and water' to prevent them from dis- 
coloring. Cook until tender in boiling salted 
water. Take them out the moment they are 
done, or they will become tough. Serve with a 
highly seasoned cream sauce. 

Fried Artichokes 

Wash, trim, and boil the artichokes as di- 
rected in recipe previous for boiling. Remove 
the chokes and the outer leaves, leaving only the 
most tender. Cut them into about a dozen 
pieces, then dip them in batter, fry in hot oil or 
dripping until they are lightly browned, drain, 
and serve with fried parsley. Time to fry, five 
or six minutes. 

Artichokes Stewed in Gravy 

Strip off the leaves from the artichokes, re- 
move the chokes, and soak them in lukewarm 



VEGETABLES 7J3 

water for three hours, changing the water three 
or four times. Place them in a saucepan with 
enough gravy to cover them, a tahle^poonful 
of mushroom catsup, the juice of a lemon, and 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled in 
flour. Let them stew gently until tender, then 
serve with the sauce poured over th6m, and as 
hot as possible. Time to stew, half an hour. 
Allow one for each person. 

Fricasseed Jerusalem Artichokes 

Boil some artichokes according to thd pre- 
ceding recipe. Take them out of the water and 
drain them. Put a breakfast-cupful of milk 
into a saucepan, flavor it with salt, pepper, and 
powdered cinnamon, and thicken it with a sniall 
piece of butter rolled in flour. Turn the arti- 
chokes into this, and let all stew together gently 
for a few minutes. Time to stew,, five or six 
minutes. 

Stuffed Artichokes 

Thoroughly wash the artichokes. Boil them 
until they are nearly tender, drain them, re- 
move the middle leaves and the chpkes, and lay 
in each a little good force-meat, and put them in 
a moderate oven until the meat is sufficiently 
cooked. Make a little good white sauce to 
serve with them. Time to bake, half an hour. 

Allow one for each person. 
46 



7J4 VEGETABLES 

Artichokes S I'ltafienne 

Well wash, trim, and quarter the artichokes, 
and boil them in salt and water until tender. 

Bemove the chokes, drain thoroughly, and ar- 
range them on a dish with the leaves outwards, 
and intersperse them with watercresses. Pour 
good white sauce, flavored with stewed mush- 
rooms, over them. Time to boil the artichokes, 
half an hour. ^ 

Pur6e of Jerusalem Artichokes 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into 
a saucepan; let it melt, then throw into it 2 
bay leaves, 1 sliced onion, 3 pounds of Jerusa- 
lem artichokes washed, pared, and sliced, and 
half a pound of bacon in rashers. Keep these 
well stirred in the boiling butter for about ten 
minutes ; then add to them, gradually, % pint of 
stock. Let all boil up together until the vege- 
tables are thoroughly cooked; then add % piiit 
more stock, stir it well, add pepper and salt, 
and serve with toasted sippets. 

To Cook Cauliflower 

Let it soak in cold water one hour before 
cooking. Take off the outside leaves and cut 
the stem off close. Put it, stem-side down, into 
boiling water sufficient to cover it; add 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, and boil till tender, from one- 



VEGETA BLES 715 

half hour to one hour. When done it may be 
served in the following ways : 

Boiled, with Cream or Hollandaise Sauce 
Take up carefully so as to preserve shape. 
Place in dish and pour cream sauce over it. 

Baked 

Serve in the same way with Hollandaise 
sauce. 

Boiled, with Butter Sauce 

Boil, break into small pieces. Put a layer in 
a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and a few bits of butter. Repeat till 
dish is filled. Pour over it a cupful of milk, 
seasoned with a teaspoonful of salt, and salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Cover with bread or 
cracker crumbs, and brown in oven. 

The best way to cook cauliflower whole is as 
given above. When done cover with drawn but- 
ter, not cream sauce, and serve, or sprinkle 
thickly with grated cheese. Put in oven to 
brown. Serve either in baking-dish in which 
it has been browned, or remove carefully to plat- 
ter and garnish with parsley 

Escalioped Cauliflower 

Boil till very tender. Drain well and cut in 
small pieces ; put it in layers with fine chopped 
egg and this dressing : % pi^t of milk thickened 



7J6 VEGETABLES 

over boiling water with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour and seasoned with 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 
1 of white pepper, and 2 ounces of butter.. Put 
grated bread over the top, dot it with small bits 
of butter, and place it in the oven to heat thori 
oughly and brown. Serve in the same dish in 
which it was baked. 

Vegetable Cutlets 

Cut into bits cooked cauliflower, carrots, cel- 
ery or asparagus tips to measure 1 pint; add 
1 cupful thick, seasoned white sauce ; when cool, 

form into cutlets; dip into egg and bread crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat ; garnish with pimolas, 
olives, and paper frills ; serve with green but- 
tered peas. 

Cauliflower au Gratin 

Cleanse, trim, and quarter 1 or 2 large cauli- 
flowers. Throw them into boiling water, and 
let them remain for five minutes; drain, and 
boil them in plenty of salted water until they 
are ready. Whilst they are boiling mix 
smoothly together in a stewpan 1 ounce of but- 
ter and one ounce of flour, add a quarter of a 
pint of cold water and a little pepper and salt. 
Let the sauce boil, and stir it over the fire for 
ten minutes. Put in with it 1 ounce of grated 
Parhiesan cheese and 1 tablespoonful of cream, 
and take the saucepan from the fire. Cut the 
cauliflowers into neat pieces ; lay half of these 



VEGETABLES 717 

in a tureen, pour a little of the sauce over them, 
and add the remainder of the vegetables and 
the rest of the sauce. Sprinkle a large table- 
spoonful of bread raspings and another of 
grated Parmesan over the top, and bake the 
preparation ia a hot oven until it is nicely- 
browned. Serve very hot. Time to brown, a 
quarter of an hour. 

Cauliflower with Tomato Sauce 

Boil four large white cauliflowers in a little 
water until they are tender, then cut off the 
stalks and press them head downwards into a 
hot basin. Turn them into a tureen, and pour 
round them "a little tomato or piquant sauce. 
Before serving, place the stalks neatly round 
them. They should look like- one immense cauli- 
flower. "Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to 

boil. 

Cauliflower with Stuffing 

Choose a saucepan the exact size of the dish 
ihtended to be used. Cleanse a large, firm, 
white cauliflower, and cut it into Sprigs; thrOw 
these into boiling salt and water for two min- 
utes; then take them out, drain, and pack them 
tightly with the heads downward, in the sauce- 
pan, the bottom. of which must have been pre- 
viously covered with thin slices of bacon. Fill 
up the vacant spaces with a stuffing made of 
3 tablespoonfuls of finely minced veal, the same 



7J8 VEGETABLES 

of beef suet, 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
a little pepper and salt, 1 teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced 
chives, and a dozen small mushrooms chopped 
small. Strew these ingredients over the cauli- 
flowers in alternate layers, and pour over them 
3 well-beaten eggs. When these are well 
soaked, add sufficient nicely flavored stock to 
cover the whole. Simmer gently till the cauli- 
flowers are tender, and the sauce very much 
reduced ; then turn the contents of the saucepan 
upside down on a hot dish, and the cauliflowers 
will be found standing in a savory mixture. 
Time, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for 
four or five persons. 

Cauliflower in Cheese 

Fill pineapple cheese, out of which the cheese 
has all been scooped, with creamed cauliflower. 
Place on folded cloth in pan, sprinkle grated 
cheese over the top, and bake in moderate oven 
twenty minutes. 

Cabbage and Bacon 

Boil a piece of salt pork until it is about three- 
quarters cooked. Then take it out of the water, 
drain it, and place two or three rashers of bacon 
in the saucepan. Lay on these a cabbage which 
has been thoroughly washed and cut into quar- 
ters, and put the pork over the cabbage. Cover 



VEGETABLES 719 

the whole with nicely flavored stock, and pep- 
per, nutmeg, and parsley, but no salt, as it will 
most likely be found there is sufficient in the 
bacon and stock. Simmer gently until the cab- 
bage is cooked. Place the vegetables on a hot 
dish with the pork in the midst of them ; thicken 
the gravy, and pour it over the whole. Time to 
boil the cabbage, twenty minutes. Sufficient 
for four or five persons. 

Creamed Cabbage 

Thoroughly cleanse two young cabbages, and 
boil them until quite soft. Take them out, 
drain, and press them between two hot plates 
imtil they are dry, when they may be slightly 
chopped. , Melt a piece of butter the size of an 
egg in a stewpan, add pepper and salt, then put 
in the cabbage, and turn it about for two or 
three minutes. When it is thoroughly heated, 
dredge 1 tablespoonful of flour over it, and mix 
with it very gradually a cupful of milk or cream. 
Serve on a hot dish. Time, half ah hour. Suf- 
ficient for three or four persons. 

Brussels Sprouts 

Wash and pick off the outer leaves. Place 
the vegetables in a pan of boiling water, to 
which have been added a handful of salt and 
a very small piece of soda. Let thera boil 
quickly until tender. Drain the water from 



720 VEGETABLES 

them, and serve as hot as possible. Pepper 
sU^htly, and spread a little butter over them. 
Send a little, melted butter, to the table with 
them, but not on them. The best way to keep 
greens a good color is to put them into the 
saucepan when the water is boiling ; keep them 
ibpijing fast all the time; let them have plenty 
of room and plenty of water; let them be un- 
covered, and take them up as soon as tliey are 
cooked. Time, twenty minutes for sprouts. 

Saute Brussels Sprouts 

Wash and drain 1 pound of sprouts; put 
them into boiling water for. fifteen minutes, with 
% an ounce of salt to each gallon, and when 
done, dry them on a clean cloth. Dissolve % 
an ounce of butter in a pan, and shake the 
sprouts in it over the fire for a minute or two ; 
season them with pepper, salt, and a little nut- 
meg, and serve very hot. Sprouts about the 
size of a walnut have the most delicate flavor. 
Sufficient for two or three persons. 

Stuffed Cabbage 

Choose a good-sized firm young cabbage. 
Wash it thoroughly, and lay it in water to 
;which has been added 1 tablespoonful of vine- 
gar. Let it remain for half an hour, then drain 
it, cut off tbe stalk, and scoop out the heart, so 



VEGETABLES m 

as to make a space for the stuffing, which may be 
made of sausage-meat, mixed with chestnuts 
cut small, or any flavoring that may he pre- 
ferred. Press the force-meat into the cabbage, 
cover it with leaves, which must be well tied on 
with tape to prevent escaple. Place the cab- 
bage in a saucepan with some slices of bacon, 
a;bove and below if, and cover the whole with 
nicely flavored stock. Let it stew gently for 
half an hour. Take out the cabbage, remove 
the tape, place it on a hot dish, and strain the 
gravy over it.' Sufficient for three or four 'per- 
sons. 

To Keep Cabbage Fresh ' * 

Havie the cabbages cut with two or three 
inches of stalk, of which the pith must be tiaken 
out without injuring the rind. Hang the cab- 
bages up by the stalk, and fill the hollows with a 
little fresh water every day. Cabbages will 
thus keep fresh for four or five weeks. 

Cabbage ^ la Lilloise 

Wash and drain a large cabbage, and, after 
removing the stalk, cut it into pieces about the 
size of a walnut. Melt 2 ounces of butter in a 
saucepan, and fry in it for a" itdaiite or two a 
small teaspoonful of finely chopped onion. Add 
the cabbage, with pepper, salt, and a little 
griated nutmeg. Codk it over & Slow fire, and 



722 VEGETABLES 

turn it frequently to prevent burning. Place on 
a hot dish and serve. Time to prepare, fifteen 
minutes. 

Boiled Cabbage 
Cut off the stalk, remove the faded and outer 
leaves, and halve, or, if large, quarter the cab- 
bages. Wash them thoroughly, and lay them 
for a few minutes in water, to which 1 table- 
spoonful of vinegar has been added, to draw 
out any insects that may be lodging under the 
leaves. Drain them in a colander. Have ready 
a large pan of boiling water, with 1 tablespoon- 
ful of salt and a small piece of soda in it, and 
let the cabbages boil quickly till tender, leaving 
the saucepan uncovered.' Take them up as soon 
as they are done, drain them thoroughly, and 
serve. Time to boil: young summer cabbages, 
from ten to fifteen minutes; large cabbages or 
savoys, half an hour or more. 

To Dress Sauerkraut 

Take as much kraut as will be required out of 
the barrel, and wash it lightly, first in warm, 
and then in cold water. Dissolve a slice of fresh 
butter in a saucepan, put in half the kraut, lay 
upon this the meat which it is to accompany — 
ham, beef, pork, sausages, etc., are those usually 
served with it — ^lay the remainder of the kraut 
on the meat, and pour over it a little stock and 



VEGETABLES 723 



a glass of wine if liked. Add stock or water 
occasionally, as it is required, to moisten the 
preparation, and stir it every now and then 
to keep it from burning. Cover closely, and 
simmer gently over a slow fire until the meat 
is done enough, and the kraut is soft. Serve the 
meat on a hot dish with the sauerkraut round 
it. It can scarcely be boiled too long, and can 
be warmed up again with fresh meat a second 
time. Time to boil, not less than three hours at 
the first boiling. 

To Make Sauerkraut 

The following interesting particulars as to 
the German practice in regard to the prepara- 
tion of sauerkraut are drawn from " Ger- 
man National Cookery." The finest and hard- 
est white cabbages must be chosen, and the color 
will be improved if they are allowed to lie 
heaped together in a cool corner for several 
days before being used. The cutting is usually 
done with an instrument called a hoMhobel {cah- 
bage-plane). -Instead of this a large knife will 
do. Throw away the outer leaves of the cab- 
bages, and halve and quarter them. Cut out the 
stalks and larger ribs of the leaves. Begin at 
the tfip of the head to cut them across in very 
narrow strips. Have ready a well-seasoned 
oak barrel or pickling-tub, or an earthen bread- 



724 VEGETABLES 

pan would do. Cover tlie bottom of tHe vessel 
with clean cabbage leaves, throw in the cabbage 
as it is cut, sprinkle it with salt, equally dis- 
persed as it is thrown in. Many scatter in a 
few juniper-berries or caraway-seeds. As the 
shred cabbage is put into the tub, it should be 
stamped down hard with a club. When all is 
packed close strew a little salt over the top, 
cover it with a few cabbage leaves, and then 
with a Clean linen cloth. Put on it a wooden lid 
that will fit inside the vessel, and lay on this a 
heavy stone. Do hot put the " kraut-stand" 
in too cool a place till fermentation has begun ; 
this may be known by small white globules 
forming on the brine, which ought to appear 
above the kraut after a day or two. If this is 
not the case, boil salt and water, let it get cold, 
and then pour it over. This latter must not be a 
strong brine. A good handful of salt is enough 
to allow for a large bucket or firkin of cut cab- 
bage; too much prevents fermentation. In a 
fortnight the cloth on the top must be well 
washed in cold water, and spread over again. 
At the same time the leaves on the top must 
either be well rinsed also or renewed. This 
washing must be done once every week, whether 
kraut is taken out or not. In two or three 
weeks it is pickled enough for use, and will 
keep good for a year. 



VEGETABLES 725 

Scotch Kale 

Procure Scotch kale as fresh as possible, and 
cut away the outer and decayed leaves, and the 
stalks ; wash with care, and drain it. Put it into 
boiling water slightly salted, and let it boll 
quickly until cooked; drain thoroughly and 
serve very hot. Whilst the kale is boiling, the 
saucepan should be left uncovered. Time to 
boil, twenty minutes. 

Swiss Cabbage 

Eemove the centre and fill with sausage-meat. 
Place a layer of the same between the leaves ; tie 
securely in cheesecloth, and boil until the vege- 
table is - tender. Pour over a cupfnl of hot 

vinegar. 

Cucumber iviangoes 

Choose large, green cucumbers, not very ripe, 

cut a long narrow strip out of the sides, and 

scoop out the seeds with a teaspoon. Pound a 

few of these with a little scraped horseradish, 

finely shred garlic, mustard seed, and white 

pepper ; stuff the hollows out of which the seeds 

came as full as they will hold, replace the strips, 

and bind them in their places with a little 

thread. Boil as much vinegar as will cover 

them, and pour it on them while hot ; repeat this 

for three days. The last time boil the vinegar 

with half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of 

cloves, 2 ounces of pepper, 2 ounces of mustard 



726 VEGETABLES 

seed, a stick of horseradish, and 1 clove of 
garlic to every half gallon of vinegar. Put the 
cucumbers into jars, pour the boiling liquid over 
them, tie the jars closely down, and set them 
aside for use. Time, four days. 

Stuffed Cucumbers 

Peel large cucuiiibers. Remove a narrow 
piece from the side, and scoop out the seeds 
with a teaspoon. Fill the cavity with nicely 
flavored force-ineat, replace the piece, and bind 
it round with strong white thread. Line the 
bottom of a saucepan with slices of meat and 
bacon, put the cucumber upon it, and then 2 
or 3 more slices. Cover the whole with nicely 
flavored stock, and, if more vegetables are 
desired, 2 or 3 sliced carrots, turnips, and 
onions may be added. Season with salt and 
pepper, and simmer gently, until cucumber, 
meat, and vegetables are sufficiently cooked. If 
the cucumber is tender before the rest, it should 
be taken out, and kept hot. Thicken the gravy 
with a little butter and flour, and pour it over 
the cucumber. Time, about one hour. 

Fried Cucumbers 

Peel the cucumbers, slice in half-inch slices, 
and put them in ice water for half an hour. 
Drain, wipe dry, and roll in beaten egg, then in 
fine salted cracker crumbs. Fry in dbep hot 



VEGETABLES 727 

fat; drain in a hot oven on brown paper, dust 
with salt and pepper, and serve hot. 

If the cucumbers are quite large, they may 
be cut lengthwise in quarters and the seeds 
scooped out by drawing the tip of a spoon down 
the centre. Then divide them once in length, 
roll, and fry as before. 

Stewed Cucumbers 

Peel 2 or 3 cucumbers that are too large for 
serving in the usual way. Cut them in quarters 
lengthwise and scoop out the seeds. Cut again 
in inch and a half lengths, and throw them for 
half an hour or more in very cold watdr. Stew 
until tender in enough slightly salted, boiling 
water to cover them. Drain off the water, turn 
into a hot dish and simply dress with melted 
butter, salt, and pepper, with the addition, if 
liked, of 1 spoonful of rich hot cream. They 
may be served on crisp toast at breakfast or 
lunch with eggs, or to accompany an omelet, or 
with parsley butter as an accompaniment to a 
fish course, or with fish-balls. The wonder is, 
when so many think the cucuinber indigestible, 
that it is not more used as a cooked vegetable. 

Cucumbers a la Poulette 

Peel 2 small, young cucumbers. Remove the 
seeds. Cut the fruit into pieces about one inch 
thick and: two inches long, stew these till tender 



72a VEGETABLES 

^^^^'^—— ■■■ — -■ --■ - ■-■■ - ■ _^ 

in water with a little salt and vinegar in it; 
drain them; put into a stewpan 1 ounce of but- 
ter and % of an ounce of flour ; mix the butter 
and flour well, and let them remain about three 
minutes. Add gradually 1 pint of nicely fla- 
vored stock. Simmer gently for fifteen min- 
utes. Put in the cucilmbers, with a seasoning 
of salt and pepper, and in a minute or two, 2 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Draw the sauce from 
the fire, and, just before serving it, add the well- 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and the juice of half a 
lemon. Time, one hour. 

Pickled Cucumbers 

If the cucumbers are very young and small 
they may be pickled whole ; if not, they are better 
cut into thick slices. Sprinkle salt rather plenti- 
fully over them, and let them remain, twenty- 
four hours. Drain them from the juice, dry 
them in cloth, and pour over them boiling vin- 
egar, with % an ounce of mustard seed, 1 ounce 
of salt, 1 ounce of whole pepper, half a bruised 
nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne to every quart 
of vinegar. Cover them closely, and let them 
remain until next day, when the vinegar must 
again be boiled and poured over the cucumbers, 
and this process repeated each day. for four 
days. They should then be covered closely, and 
care should be taken with these, as with all 



VEGETABLES 729 

pickles, that they are thoroughly covered with 
vinegar. It is best to pickle cucumbers by them- 
selves, as they are apt to become mouldy. If 
any sign of. this appears (and they should be 
looked at every three or four weeks to ascer- 
tain it, and on this account should be kept in a 
wide-mouthed glass bottle instead of an earthen 
jar), put them into a fresh dry bottle, boil the 
viuegar up again, and pour it over them. Time 
to pickle, one week. 

To Dress Cucumbers 

Pare the cucimiber and cut it into thin slices. 
Sprinkle a little salt over, and in a few minutes 
drain off the water which exudes. Put the slices 
on a' clean dish, and pOur over a French dress- 
ing. Many persoUs like a few slices of onion 
served with the cucumber, or 1 teaspoohfut of 
the vinegar in which onions have been pickled 
may be added to the other vinegar. 

To Serve Spinach 

This vegetable must be washed thoroughly in 
several waters to free itf rom grit. To do this lift 
it out of the water in both hands, a small quan- 
tity at a time. The stalk must be pulled from each 
leaf before boiling. Put the prepared spinach 
into an empty saucepan, sprinkle a little salt 
over it, and stir it eonstantly to prevent burn- 
ing. Boil the spinach till it becomes tender. 
47 



730 VEGETABLES 

Place the boiled spinacli on a colander or siete, 
press it, chop it on a clean board, put it into a 
saucepan, add butter and broth — ^taking care, 
however, not to thin it too much with the broth 
— and taste whether it is salt enough. Stir it 
over, the fire till the liquid is absorbed, pile on 
a hot dish, and serve. Half an ounce of butter 
and 1 tablespoonful of cream, or broth, will be 
enough for 1 pound of spinach. If cream a 
day old is to be obtained, we may finally incor- 
porate a little flour with it, and add the whole 
to the spinach. To embellish this dish, cut milk 
bread into slices, forming the crust into points, 
fry in butter till yellow, prepare hard-boiled 
eggs cut in quarters lengthwise, and serve the 
spinach, placing round it first an egg and then a 
crust alternately. 

Spinach as Greens 

Boil spinach as for other recipes. Drain and 
press out water, return to saucepan, add butter, 
pepper, and salt, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, and 
serve with boiled meat. 

The leaves of young beets or turnip tops may 
be substituted for spinach, or greens, and are 
frequently used when spinach is out of season. 

German Mode of Cooking Spinach 

" Spinach," says the compiler of " German 
National Cookery," " requires to lie in water a 



VEGETABLES 73J 

little while, and to be several times rinsed in 
fresh water. Put it into boiling water with 
salt; give it eight or ten minutes' gentle boiling 
uncovered. If its earthy flavor is objected to, 
throw it into plenty of cold water when boiled 
enough, then drain, and press' it dry ; chop it 
fine. Make butter hot, throw it into some 
grated bread crumbs, then add the spinach. 
Or make a thick butter-sauce, and stir the spin- 
ach into this to get thoroughly hot. Serve gar- 
nished with either cutlets, sausages, hard-boiled 
eggs sliced, and sippets of buttered to^st, or 
poached eggs. If the full flavor of the spinach 
is liked, simply wash it well, clear it of the large 
stems, and drain it. Put a piece of butter in a 
saucepan, and when melted put in the spinach; 
cover, and as it shrinks put in more. Let it 
cook in its own juice. Sprinkle salt over as you 
put it in." 

Spinach with Eggs 
Prepare spinach as for the above recipe. 
Put it on a hot dish, smooth it with the blade of 
a knife, and mark it in squares. Place as many 
poached eggs as there are guests on the top of 
the spinach, or, if preferred, put them round it, 
each egg on a piece of buttered toast. Serve the 
whole very hot. If a superior dish is required, 
the spinach, after being boiled till tender, may 
be rubbed through a wire sieve, and the pulp 



732 VEGETABLES 

heated with a slice of fresh butter, 1 tablespoon- 
f ul of thick cream, and a little pepper and salt, 

Purde of Spinach with Butter 

Pick the stalks from 3 quarts of spinach, and 
wash it in two or three waters. Lift it out of 
the water with the fingers that the sand may 
settle at the bottom, and put it into a saucepan 
with as much boiling water slightly salted as 
will keep it from burning. Keep it boiling till 
it is tender, and press it under the water occa- 
sionaUy with a wooden spoon. Drain it well; 
carefully pick away any stalks or fibre that may 
still remain in it, and rub" it through a coarse 
sieve. Put the pulp into a saucepan with a 
slice of fresh butter, and a little pepper and 
salt, and stir it briskly over the fire till it is 
quite hot. Add a spoonful or two of sauce, and 
let it remain on the fire, stirring all the time, 
for five minutes. Serve very hot, and garnish 
with fried sippets, or pile it in the centre of a 
dish, and place lamb or mutton cutlets on end 
round it, the long bones inclining towards each 
other. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen 
niinutes. 

Fagadu Bradu 

Take of spinach that has been well washed 
and drained, enough for a dish ; stew it over a 



VEGETABLES 733 

slow-fire until half done, then press out all the 
moisture> and add to"* it the whole of a lobster 
cut into bits-^small ones, and seasoned with 
cayenne and salt to taste — 2 tablespoonfuls of 
curry-powder, and 2 ounces of butter. Stew till 
the spiiiach is quite tender, which will be in 
about fifteen minutes. ' > 

Boiled Winter Squash 

Winter squashes are stewed in the same way 
as others, but they must remain on the fire a lit- 
tle longer. Cut up the squashes in pieces an 
inch thick, having first pared the squash; if 
old, extract the seeds and boil the pieces until 
they break, mash them with a spoon, boil them a 
little longer, and when they are done squeeze 
them through a colander. Mix them with a lit- 
tle salt and a small quantity of butter. If kept 
in a ,dry place, winter squashes yill remain good 
all the winter, but if they are once frozen they 
lose their flavor and are apt to decay. They are 
richer and firmer than the summer kind. 

To Cook Summer Squash 

If young and tender, cut into thick slices and 
boil in as little water as possible, or steam about 
one hour. Drain well, or better still, squeeze 
it in a thin cloth. Mash and season with butter, 
plenty of salt, and a little pepper. If the squash 
is old, peel and remove the seeds. 



734 VEGETABLES 

Pickled Onions 

Onions, like all other ptekles, are considered 
more wholesome, though less handsome, when 
prepared at home, than when bought at the 
warehouses. Home-made pickled onions are 
besides quite as expensive. The small silver 
onions are generally used for pickling, and 
should be obtained as soon as possible after they 
are harvested, as they are then in the best con- 
dition. This will be about the middle of August. 
Peel the onions until they look clear, being care- 
ful not to cut the bulb. If a little warm water 
be poured over them the task will not be quite so 
disagreeable. Throw them as they are peeled 
into a bowl of white-wine vinegar, and when 
they are all finished strain the vinegar into 
an enameled stewpan, with 1 ounce of whole 
peppercorns, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, and 
an inch of whole ginger to each quart. Boil 
gently for five minutes, let the liquid cool, 
and pour it over the onions. It must be boiled 
again twice before the onions are fastened up, 
and should be sufficient to cover them entirely. 
Put the pickle into jars, cork securely, and cover 
them with bladder, then store for use. Instead 
of boiling the vinegar three times, the onions 
may be thrown into it when boiling, and 
simmered gently for two minutes. Onions and 
cucumbers are frequently pickled together. 



VEGETABLES 735 

Onions ^ la Crfeme 

Peel four medium-sized Spanish onions, and 
boil them in water slightly salted until they are 
sufficiently cooked. Drain them on a sieve, and 
put them into a stewpan with 3 ounces of but- 
ter rubbed smoothly with a tablespoonful of 
flour, and a little salt and white pepper. Shake 
the pan constantly, and stir in by degrees % 
pint of cream or new milk. Serve the onions on 
toasted bread, with the sauce poured over. Suf- 
ficient for four or five persons. One hour to 
boil the onions, quarter of an hour to stew them. 

Onion and Eggs 
Wash and peel a large Spanish onion. Cut 
it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness, strew a little salt and pepper over these, 
and fry them in hot butter until they are ten- 
der, without being browned. Take the pieces 
up with an egg-slicer to preserve them whole, 
drain well from the fat, and place them on a 
hot dish. Squeeze the juice of 2 large fresh 
lemons upon them. Have ready 4 poached eggs, 
place theise on the onions, and serve immedi- 
ately. Time, twenty minutes altogether. 

Onion Porridge 

, Peel a large Spanish oniony divide it into 
four, and put i it into a saucepan with % salt- 
spoonful of salt, 2 ounces of butter, and 1 pint 



736 VEGPTABLES 

of cold water. Let it simmer gently until it is 
quite tender, then pour it into a heated bowl, 
dredge a little pepper over it, and eat it as hot 
as possible just before goiag to bed. Time to 
boil the onion, about half an hour. Sufficient 
for one person. A country remedy for a cold 
in the head. 

Plain Boiled Onions 
Peel half a dozen medium-sized Spanish 
oi^ions, and boil them gently for five or six min- 
utes in a little salt and water. Drain them on a 
sieve, and throw them into cold water for an 
hour. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of 
cold water, and let them simmer gently until 
they are tender quite through, without being 
broken. Serve on a hot dish, with a little melted 
butter poured over them. Time, medium-sized 
Spanish onions, an houi: and a half to boil. 

Baked Spanish Onions 

Wash and trim, without peeling, half a dozen 
Spanish onions of medium size. Put' them into 
a saucepan, cover them with water slightly 
salted, and let them simmer very gently for 
about an hour. Take them up, drain them, wrap 
each onion in a separate piece of paper, put 
them into a moderate oven, and let them remain 
until quite tender. Before dishing them, re- 
move the skins, sprinkle a little pepper and salt 



VEGETABLES 737 

over them, and pour hal;f a pint of good gravy 
into the dish with them. Time to bake, about an 
hour and a half. Sufficient for five or six per- 
sons. 

Stuffed Baked Onions 
Peel large Spanish onions, partly boil them, 
and leave them on a sieve to drain until nearly 
cold. Then cut the onions an inch and a half 
across the top, and scoop out the centre. Have 
ready a stuffing made with 1 ounce of finely 
grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, the yolks 
of 2 hard-boiled eggs minced very finely, 1 ounce 
of butter, 3 ounces of bread crumbs, 1 saltspoon- 
ful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. 
Mix all well, together with a spoonful or two of 
milk. Fill up the onions with the force-meat, 
brush them over with egg and bread crumbs, 
and bake them until nicely browned. Serve on 
a hot dish, with brown gravy poured over them. 
Time, half an hour to boil the onions; three- 
quarters of an hour to bake, 

Stewed Onions 

Peel and trim half a dozen Spanish onions of 
naedium size, but be careful not to cut the tops 
too short, or the bulb will fall to pieces whilst 
stewing. Blanch them in boiling water for a 
minute or two, then drain them, and put them 
side by side in a saucepan sufficiently large, to 



738 VEGETABLES 



hold them all in one layer. Sprinkle a little salt 
and pepper over them, and place upon each 
onion 1/2 ounce of butter, mixed smoothly with 
% teaspoonful of powdered^sugar. Place them 
over a gentle fire, and let them remain until 
lightly browned; then cover with good brown 
gravy, and simmer them until tender. Serve as 
hot as possible on toast, with the gravy poured 
round them. If liked, the gravy may be fla- 
vored with tomato sauce, or with a finely minced 
gherkin and a glass of claret. A pleasing va- 
riety, too, may be secured by taking out the 
middle of each onion, stuffing it with nicely sea- 
soned force-meat, and then stewing in gravy as 
before. Time to stew the onions, about an 
hour and a half. 

Onions 'with Beefsteak, etc. 

Take 2 large Spanish onions; remove a thin 
piece from each end, peel off the outer skins, and 
cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. 
Place 1 ounce of butter or good dripping in a 
saucepan, let it melt, then put with it 1 pound 
of steak, divided into pieces a little thinner than 
for broiling. Brown these in the butter, add a 
little pepper and salt, the sliced onions, 3 ounces 
more of butter, but no liquid; cover the sauce- 
pan closely, and simmer as gently as possible 
till done. Arrange the steak neatly in the cen- 



VEGETABLES 739 

tre of a hot dish, boil up the onion gravy sauce 
with 1 tablespoonful of walnut catsup, pour it 
over the meat, and serve immediately. Chick- 
ens or rabbits are sometiiaes cooked in the same 
way. Time, about an hour and a half. 

Onions with Grated CFieese 

Wash and peel 3 or 4 large sound onions, cut 
them into slices fully half an inch thick, and 
place them side by side in a single layer in a 
well-buttered baking-dish. Sprinkle a little pep- 
per and salt over them, place them in a quick 
oven, and let them remain until tender; strew 
each piece of onion thickly with grated cheese, 
and return the dish again to the oven for a few 
minutes until the cheese has dissolved. Lift the 
slices carefully upon a hot dish, and serve im- 
mediately. A little mustard should be e^ten 
with them. Time, half an hour to bake. A 
German recipe. 

Leeks 

This, the Allium Porrum, is a plant highly 
valued for culinary purposes. Its flavor is 
much milder than that of the onion, or any other 
species of Allirnn. In Wales, the leek has long 
been a special favorite. It is ordinarily sown 
in spring, and is ready for use in the following 
winter. Attention has long been given to its 
growth, and some of the varieties exhibit in a 



740 VEGETABLES 

remarkable degree tlie effects of cultivation in 
increased size and delicacy. 

Boiling of Leeks 

Leeks are generally used in soups, etc* If 
served alone, take them when very young, trim 
off the root, the outer leavesj and the green 
ends, and cut the stalks in six-inch l)&ngths. Tie 
them in bundles, put them into boiling water, 
with 1 dessertspoonful of salt, and 1 tablesppoij- 
ful of vinegar, and let them boil until quite ten- 
der. Drain them, and serve like asparagus, on 
hot toast, pouring white sauce or melted butter 
over them. Time to boil, three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Flemish Leeks 

Rub % pound of fresh butter into 1 pound of 
flour; add % teaspoonful of salt, the yolks of 2 
eggs, and % pint of water. Mix thoroughly. 
Divide this pastry into four parts, and roll these 
out into rounds about six inches in diameter. 
Have ready 1 dozen leeks prepared as follows : 
Wash them in two or three waters, trim off the 
root and the outer leaves, strew 1 tablespoonful 
of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and % grated 
nutmeg over them, and pour over them % pint 
of cream. Let them soak for half an hour. Put 
the rounds of pastry on a baking-dish ; fill each 
one with the leeks, draw up the sides tp the 



VEGETABLES 741 

centre, fasten them securely together, and bake 
in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. 

Radishes 

To be eaten in perfection, radishes should be 
freshly pulled and tender. When preparing 
them for table, wash them thoroughly, and leave 
about ah inch and a half of the stalk. Cut the 
fibres from the bulbs, and lay them in cold 
water for an hour. Serve them in a circle on 
a plate with the stalk end outwards, and a salt- 
cellar in the centre. Radishes are very com- 
monly added to salads. 

Horseradish ' 

Wash the horseradish thoroughly, and lay it 
in cold water for an hour. G-rate it into shreds 
and use it to garnish various dishes. It is a 
frequent accompaniment to roast beef, and to 
many kinds of fish. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Take a piece of butter the size of one egg, 
beat it up with % tablespoonful of flour, thin it 
with 1 cupful of warm broth or hot milk, place 
it on the fire to boil, stirring it all the time ; stir 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish^ let 
it heat, but not boil ; add a little salt, and serve. 
A German recipe. 



742 VEGETABLES 

Tomatoes 

In the season of fresh tomatoes, the simplest 
way of serving them is to slice and use them as 
a salad or side dish, or with sugar and cream 
as a dessert. Served in this way some people 
consider them a close rival to strawberries, the 
sugar and cream seeming to combine with them 
to bring out a flavor similar to that delectable 
berry. 

To prepare them to be served raw, select 
smooth tomatoes of uniform size, put them in 
a wire basket, colander, or coarse strainer, 
plunge them in boiling water, let them stand a 
few minutes, then plunge them into cold water. 
They can almoet immediately be handled easily, 
and the skins will peel off very readily. Put 
them on or near the ice to get very cold, and 
when ready to serve slice and serve with a 
French or mayonnaise dressing or with sugar 
as liked. 

The small round peach or egg tomatoes are 
very pretty served whole, in nests of lettuce or 
cress. 

The tomato contains so much acid that it 
needs very little vinegar, and the persistent 
use of salt, pepper, and vinegar as a dress- 
ing is said to induce irritation of the mouth 
and the coating of the stomach and digestive 
organs. 



VEGETABLES 743 

Curried Tomatoes with Rice 

Boil 1 cupful of rice until tender and dry. 
While this is cooking, scald and peel 4 or 5 
medium-sized tomatoes. Cut them in halves 
across and take out the seeds ; then cut each of 
these halves in two. Chop 2 small onions 
very fine, cook them in a saucepan with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter until tender; add 1 tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, 1 bay leaf, 1 blade 
of mace, and 1 cupful of hot water. Let this 
mixture boil, then put in the tomatoes, cover 
closely and simmer twenty minutes, or until the 
tomatoes are tender, but not broken. 

Dish the rice in a mound on a deep hot plat- 
ter or shallow vegetable dish; place the toma- 
toes carefully around the edge of the dish, 
strain the sauce over all and serve at once. 

Curried Tomatoes with Olcra 

Scald and peel half a dozen medium-sized 
tomatoes ; cut them in halves across, scoop out 
the seeds, then cut them in small pieces and 
stew for ten minutes with 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, 1 teaspoonful of curry powder, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, and 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
onion. 

Put a layer of okra in a baking-dish with a 
cover; over it put a layer of the seasoned to- 
matoes, sprinkle over it a few fine bread 



744 VEGETABLES 

crumbs, and strew plentiful bits of butter over 
the crumbs. Put another layer of okra, tomato, 
and crumbs until the dish is full. Have a rather 
thick layer of crumbs on the top. Distribute 
bits of biitter well over the top, and bake half 
an hour in a rather quick oven. Uncover the 
dish far the last ten minutes and let the top. 
brown nicely. Take it out of the oven and scat- 
ter thickly over the top mixed nuts chopped 
fine. 

While the dish has been cooking make a 
sauce by rubbing together 1 tablespoonful of 
butter and 1 of flour; add 1 cupful of boiling 
water, and cook until smooth and thick; add the 
juice of % lemon, % teaspoonful of salt, and a 
dash of cayenne. Strain the sauce over the top 
of the tomatoes and okra, and serve ia the 
same dish with boiled rice. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

The idea prevails among many inexpferienced 
cooks that all that is necessary in stewing to- 
matoes is to cut them up, stew a few minutes, 
and serve, either without seasoning, or if too 
juicy, with some bread crumbs, and perhaps salt, 
pepper, and sugar. The flavor of the tomato is 
brought out and greatly improved by long stew- 
ing; some authorities claim that they need an 
hour. This, of course, means very slow cooking. 



VEGETABLES , 745 

The tomatoes should always be peeled, not at 
all a troublesome matter. If rapidly boiling 
water is poured over them, and they are al- 
lowed to stand a few minutes, then drained and 
plunged into cold water until cool enough to 
handle easily, the skins will come off very 
readily. They should then be cut in pieces and 
stewed in their own juice until tender — ^fifteen 
or twenty minutes. If they are too juicy to 
serve as a vegetable, drain off a part of the 
liquor and put it aside to add to the next 
day's soup or sauce; add the necessary salt; 
a little pepper, and a good-sized piece of butter. 
Then stew very slowly at least another fifteen 
or twenty minutes. If liked, a very little fine 
bread or cracker crumbs may be added, 1 table- 
spoonful of flour, rubbed smooth with butter, 
putting less butter in when stewing them. 2 
cupfuls of mashed rice may be added while the 
tomatoes are stewing — or % pound of Ameri- 
can cheese, grated and beaten up with 3 eggs, 
and added after the tomatoes are stewed. Or 
tomatoes may be stewed in stock or gravy. 

Stewed Tomatoes and Corn 

Stew and strain nice ripe tomatoes, and to 

each 2 cupfuls of tomato add 1 cupful of tender 

green corn, cut from the cob. Season with salt, 

pepper, and butter. Cook theni together eight 

48 



746 VEGETABLES 

or ten minutes, then add boiling hot cream, 
% cupful to each 3 cupfuls of tomato and corn, 
and serve very hot ; or the corn may be omitted 
and the tomatoes stewed in the regular way. 
When done, add 3 beaten eggs; stew a few 
minutes longer, until the eggs set. 

Grilled Tomatoes 

Use the dark red solid-meated tomatoes for 
grilling. They should be firm and well ripened. 
Without peeling, cut a thin slice from the blos- 
som and the stem end, then cut in two once 
across. Put them in a fine wire broiler and 
broil over a hot fire, giving from three to eight 
minutes to each side. Season with salt and 
pepper, and serve with small steaks, or on hot 
rounds of buttered toast with cream sauce. 

Scalloped Tomatoes and Potatoes 

Peel and chop, or cut in small pieces, enough 
tomatoes to make 1 pint. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a little onion juice. Peel and chop 
enough potatoes to make 1 cupful. Butter a 
baking-dish and sprinkle lightly with fine bread 
crumbs, and put in half the tomatoes, then half 
the potatoes. Lay over them soft crackers, but- 
tered and broken in bits. Sprinkle over the 
crackers 2 spoonfuls of grated American cheese. 
Then add the rest of the tomatoes, the potatoes, 



VEGETABLES 747 

and more cracker crumbs; put bits of butter 
plentifully over the top and bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes, and serve at once. 

Canned tomatoes may be used for scalloping 
or cooking, and corn or rice may be substituted 
for potatoes. 

Tomatoes Baked with Eggs 

Select 6 or 8 firm tomatoes of uniform and 
medium size, scald and peel them. Scoop out 
a small portion of the inside, leaving sufficient 
thickness to keep the shape well. Chop fine 1 
small onion and fry it until a light brown in a 
tablespoonful of butter, add to it 1 cupful of 
fine bread crumbs, the tomato pulp and juice 
taken out of the tomatoes, 1 teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley, and salt and pepper. 
Cook all together until well heated. 

Pack the tomatoes closely together in a shal- 
low baking-pan of granite or earthenware, fill 
the centres with the mixture, and if any re- 
mains put it around the tomatoes. Bake in a 
hot oven twenty or thirty minutes, then break 
carefully over the top of each 1 egg, return to 
the oven and bake until the egg is set. On tak- 
ing it out of the oven shake a little salt and pep- 
per over the top^ of the eggs, and serve at 
once. This makes a hearty dish for a Sunday 
night supper, or for lunch. 



748 VEGETABLES 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Take 6 or 8 firm, well-ripened tomatoes of 
uniform size, cut a slice from the stem end and 
scoop out the seeds, leaving all the pulp. Mix 
■with 2 eupfuls of bread crumbs, 1 small onion 
minced fine, 1 tablespoonful of butter, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Fill the tomatoes with the 
mixture, set them in a baking-dish with just 
enough water to prevent them from burning. 
Bake until tender, taking care that they do not 
break. When done, take them up carefully with 
a spatula on individual plates, garnish with 
sprigs of parsley oy cress, and serve at once. 
Cold minced-meat or force-meat may be added 
to the bread crumbs and will make a palatable 
stuffing. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Meat or Fish 

A very nice dish for a luncheon, or Sunday 
evening or informal supper, is to fill tomatoes 
with a force-meat made with cold ham and mush- 
rooms. For 1 dozen nice firm tomatoes, scalded 
and peeled, take 1 small cupful of finely minced 
ham, the same amount of chopped mushrooms, 
and half of fine bread crumbs. Mix with it the 
juice and pulp scooped from the centre of the 
tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, a dash 
of cayenne, 1 tablespoonful of finely minced 
parsley, and 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter 



VEGETABLES 749 

Mix all thoroughly and fill the tomatoes. Bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven, basting the 
top occasionally with melted butter. Serve 
hot. 

Cold chicken or veal, or any nice 3old meat 
may be used with or substituted for the ham. 
Or use any nice cold fish like bluefish or white- 
fish. For a lunch dish they may be chilled after 
baking, and served with mayonnaise dressing 
on top. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Chicken Salad 

Scald and drop into cold water 6 firm, smooth, 
round tomatoes ; peel them and cut a slice from 
the blossom end. Take out the seeds and fill 
with chicken salad; put 1 spoonful of whipped 
cream on the top of each, replace the slice cut 
from the end, laying it lightly on the top. Set 
each tomato in a little nest of crisp lettuce 
leaves, and put on the ice to chill. Serve very 
cold, and pass a mayonnaise dressing with it. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Slice, without peeling, ripe, firm tomatoes, 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and dredge 
lightly on both sides with flour. Saute them in 
hot butter until nicely browned. Or they may 
be rolled in fine cracker crumbs and sauteed. 
Serve on a hot platter. 

These are good to serve for breakfast or 



750 VEGETABLES 

lunch with potato or rice croquettes, or with. 
ham or cheese omelet. 

> Baked Eggs and Tomatoes 

One of the nicest ways of , the myriad nice 
ways in which to cook eggs for breakfast is to 
select as many round, firm, ripe tomatoes as 
there are persons to be served. Wash them, cut 
a thin slice from the top of each for a cover, and 
scoop out sufficient space to admit an egg. Put 
in each a little butter, drop in the egg, taking 
care not to separate the white and yolk, season 
with salt and pepper, put a small piece of but- 
ter on each egg, and a little minced parsley on 
the butter. Eeplace the cover and bake about 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. Grated cheese 
may be used instead of the parsley. 

Fried Green Tomatoes 

Cut the tomatoes into rather thick slices. 
Heat in a frying-pan 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Lay the tomatoes in and fry on both sides, turn- 
ing carefully without breaking the slices. After 
turning, dust lightly with pepper. A very little 
minced onion may be cooked in the butter if 
liked. Serve as a border for steak or chops. 

Another way is to dust each slice of the to- 
mato with salt and pepper, and dredge with 
flour or very fine cracker crumbs before frying. 
Cook until nicely browned. 



VEGETABLES 751 

Tomatoes with Aspic Jelly 

Use rather small, firm tomatoes of uniform 
size. Pour boiling water over them and take 
off the skins, and put them in the refrigerator 
to cool. Soak % box of gelatine in % cupful 
of white stock. When dissolved add it to a 
cupful and a half more stock, season with 2 or 
3 drops of Tabasco sauce, 1 tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, and salt to taste. Add a little cara- 
mel or green coloring. When the aspic is just 
ready to stiffen cut the tomatoes in slices, take 
out the seeds, and lay them in moulds ; fill each 
mould to the top with the aspic and put on 
the ice to stiffen. Before serving turn out on a 
lettuce leaf on small plates, and serve either 
with or without mayonnaise dressing, and pass 
with them thin bread-and-butter or bread-and- 
cheese sandwiches. 

If no stock is at hand, extract of beef may be 
substituted in the right proportion. They may 
be ,also put in one large mould instead of the 
small ones. 

Tomato Toast 

Stew 1 quart of tomatoes and season nicely 
with salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne, 1 table- 
spoonful of sugar and butter. A very little 
nutmeg or mace may be added if liked, and just 
a suspicion of onion juice. 

Toast thin slices of entire wheat bread to an 



752 VEGETABLES 

even, delicate brown; put them on a hot platter 
and moisten slightly with hot water and melted 
butter. Cover the toast with the hot tomato, 
and just before serving put 1 spoonful of thick, 
whipped cream on the top of each slice. 

This is a nice breakfast or lunch dish to serve 
with a plain omelet and crisp slices of bacon 

French Tomatoes 

Scald and peel 6 small tomatoes of the 
solid-meated kind; the peach or Italian to- 
matoes are nice for this way of cooking. Make 
a cream sauce by rubbing together 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter and 1 of flour ; add 1 cupful of hot 
milk, and stir over the fire until boiling; add 
salt and pepper to taste ; add only 1 drop or 2 
.of onion juice, and just a dash of celery salt. 
Put 1 tablespoonful of the sauce in the bottom 
of a ramakin or custard cup, then drop in a to- 
mato and cover with the sauce. Sprinkle over 
the top bread crumbs seasoned well with butter. 
Stand the cups in a pan containing boiling water 
and bake half an hour in a moderately hot oven. 
Serve hot in the cups, placed on a small plate. 

Tomato Soufflfe 

Take 1 large cupful of thick, strained tomato 
pulp; season with salt and pepper, and stir in 
the beaten yolks of 6 eggs, and 1 tablespoonful 
of melted butter. Beat the whites of the eggs 



VEGETABLES 753 

to a stiff froth and fold them in; turn into a 
buttered pan and bake fifteen minutes in. a hot 
oven. Serve at once. 

Pur6e of Turnips 

Pare and wash half a dozen large sound tur- 
nips, and split them into halves, or even into 
quarters. Boil them till they are very tender, 
and press the water thoroughly from them. 
Pass them through a hair sieve, and put them 
back into the saucepan. Dredge a small quan- 
tity of flour over them, and add a little white 
pepper and salt, a slice of butter, 1/2 teaspoonful 
of white sugar, and a quarter of a pint of cream 
or milk. Stir them over the fire until' they are 
quite dry and stiff. Serve the puree in the cen- 
tre of a dish, and arrange cutlets, . etc., neatly 
round it. Some cooks add a little grated nut- 
meg or a little powdered ginger to turnip puree. 
Time to simmer with the cream, about ten min- 
utes ; to boil, from three-quarters of an hour to 
an hour and a half, according to age and size. 

Stewed Turnips h la Fran?aise 

Peel and wash half a dozen ti^rnips, and boil 
them in salted water till tender. Take them up, 
drain them, and in the water in which they have 
been boiled simmer gently 1 cupful of bread 
crumbs for five or six minutes. Wash the tur- 
nips, and put them into another saucepan with 



754 , VEGETABLES 



the boiled bread and a little butter and pepper. 
Stir over a gentle fire till they are quite hot, 
and mix with them the yolk of an egg beaten up 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Let them stew 
gently a minute or two longer, and serve very 
hot. Turnips prepared thus are very good as 
an accompaniment to boUed mutton, veal, or 
poultry. Time, three-quarters of an hour to an 
hour and a half to boil the turnips. 

Tried Turnips 

Boil 3 or 4 turnips till they are three parts 
cooked. Take them up, drain them, cut them 
into slices, and fry them in hot fat till they are 
lightly browned and quite tender. Drain them, 
and serve with fried or boiled cutlets. Or peel 
them and cut them into very thin slices. Let 
them lie in cold water for an hour, and drain 
them. Dissolve a slice of butter in a stewpan, 
and in this dissolve 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
onion for five minutes. Put in the slices of tur- 
nip, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over, and 
let them steam till they are soft. A spoonful or 
two of water may be added if there is any fear 
that they will burn. 

Large Stuffed Turnips 

Boil whole 4 or 5 large turnips. Take them 
up, drain them, cut a slice from the top, and 
scoop out the middle. Beat the pulp which has 



VEGETABLES 755 

been taken out with a little butter, flour, pepper, 
salt, and cream, and add the yolk of an egg. 
Fill the empty spaces with the mixture, put the 
tops on again, and brush them over with beaten 
egg. Brown them in a brisk oven, and serve 
very hot. Time to boil, from three-quarters 
to an hour and a half. 

Turnip and Potatoes 

Press seasoned mashed potatoes into a ring 
mould, brush over beaten egg, and brown in 
oven. 

Cut baUs from turnips with a French scoop. 
Boil in salted water twenty minutes. Drain; 
pile up in centre of potato ring. Pour over 
balls melted butter, seasoned with pepper or 
white sauce ; garnish with parsley. 

Stewed Lettuce 

Take 4 good-sized lettuces, trim away the 
outer leaves and the bitter stalks ; wash the let- 
tuces carefully, and boil them in plenty of salted 
water until they are tender. Lift them into a 
colander, and squeeze the water from them; 
chop them slightly, and put them into a clean 
saucepan with a little pepper and salt, and a 
small piece of butter. Dredge a little flour on 
them, pour over them 3 tablespoonfuls of good 
gravy, or % cupful of cream and omit the lemon 
juice, and simmer gently for a quarter of an 



756 VEGETABLES 

hour, stirring all the time. Squeeze 1 dessert- 
spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice upon them, 
and serve as hot as possible, with fried sippets 
round the dish. Time, altogether, three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Endive may be dressed as the 

above. 

Stuffed Lettuce 

Wash 4 or 5 large lettuces. Boil them in 
plenty of salted water for fifteen minutes. 
Throw them at once into cold water, and after- 
wards let them drain. Open them, fill them 
with good veal force-meat, tie the ends securely, 
and put them into a stewpan with as much good 
gravy as will cover them, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
y^ teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of 
vinegar. Simmer gently for another fifteen 
minutes, remove the strings, place them on a 
hot dish, and pour the gravy round them. If 
preferred, the lettuces may be prepared as 
above, and then put into a braising-pan, with 
thin slices of bacon above and under them. A 
carrot, an onion stuck with 2 cloves, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and a little good gravy may then be 
added, and the lettuces simmered gently for an 
hour and a half. A glassful of sherry may be 
added to the gravy before it is served. 

Dressed Endive 

There are many varieties of endive : the green 
curled sort is principally used for salads. 



VEGETABLES 757 

Those who like the bitterness of this vegetable 
will find it, when cooked according to the recipes 
here given, a wholesome and agreeable change 
during the summer. The green leaves may be 
boiled like those of any other vegetable, only 
changing the water twice to take off the bitter- 
ness. After boiling till tender, throw the endive 
into cold water for ten minutes; then squeeze 
out the water, and when dry chop and stew with 
butter, gravy, or, like spinach, beat it smooth, 
and serve round cutlets, or alone, with bread 
sippets as a garnish. Time , to boil, half an 
hour. 

Puree of Chestnuts 
Take 50 large chestnuts — those are the best 
which have no division, and, when the skin is 
removed, are entire. Take off the outer brown 
skin, and boil the chestnuts until the inner skin 
will come off easily, when it also must be re- 
moved. Having done this, put the chestnuts 
into a saucepan with sufficient white stock to 
cover them, and boil them gently until they are 
quite soft, when they must be pressed, while hot, 
through a wire sieve. The pulp must then be 
put into a stewpan, with a piece of butter about 
the size of a walnut, 1 cupful of cream or new 
milk, half a cupful of the stock in which they 
were simmered, and a little salt, pepper, and 
sugar. Stir this over the fire until quite hot, 



758 VEGETABLES 

when it may be placed in the middle of a dish of 
cutlets. Time, two hours. Sufficient for four 
or five persons. 

Compdte of Chestnuts 

Take 30. large chestnuts, peel off the outer 
brown skin, and put them into a saucepan 
of cold water. When the water is just on the 
point of boiling take them off, remove the 
second skin, and be careful not to break the 
chestnuts. Make a syrup with a breakfast-cup- 
ful of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
adding a glass of sherry and the rind of half an 
orange or a lemon, cut very thin. Put the chest- 
nuts into this, and let them simmer gently for 
twenty minutes. Strain the syrup over the 
chestnuts, and serve hot. Sift a little sugar 
over them. Time, about forty minutes. 

Stewed Chestnuts 

Remove the outer rind from sound chestnuts, 
then fry them in a little butter, when the inner 
skin may easily be freed from them. Put them 
into a saucepan with some good stock, and boil 
them until they are tender, but unbroken. The 
chestnuts should be removed from the gravy as 
soon as they are cooked, and served in a tureen, 
with a little white sauce poured over them. 
Time to boil the chestnuts, one hour and a half. 
To be served as a vegetable. 



VEGETABLES 759 

Roasted Chestnuts 

Cut a little piece of the outer shell off each 
chestnut ; this is to prevent them bursting when 
hot. Boil them for about ten minutes ; do not 
allow them to cool, but put them into a tin in 
the oven, or into a Dutch oven before the fire, 
and let them remain until they are quite soft. 
Fold them in a napkin, and serve quite hot. 
Salt should be eaten with them. Time to bake, 
about ten minutes. 

Stuffed Sweet Peppers 

One pint force-meat made from cooked meat 
or chicken. Cut a lid from the top of the pep- 
pers after washing. Scoop the seeds and fill 
with force-meat on top, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and a small piece of butter. Place in 
moderate oven and bake three-quarters of an 
hour. The lid is frequently replaced before be- 
ing put in the oven. The pepper can also be 
stuffed by cutting the pepper in half and re- 
moving seeds, then filling with force-meat, 
rounding and sprinkling with bread crumbs, and 
clarified butter and baking. A nut force-meat 
is also frequently used for the above. ' 

Creole Peppers 

Select half a dozen red or green sweet pep- 
pers, cut in half, and remove seed. Boil 1 cupful 
of rice, drain and dry. Use 1 cupful of canned 



760 VEGETABLES 

tomatoes, or 6 fresh tomatoes, scald, peel, and 
chop, and add to the rice; season with 1 tea- 
spoonful salt and onion juice, or 1 small grated 
onion ; mix all together and fill the peppers ; f ry 
them in 6 tablespoonfuls hot oil. Then remove 
to baking-pan ; add % cupful of stock and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Stewed Peppers 

Cut peppers in sections, remove seed, and boil 
in salted water one-half an hour. Take out, 
drain, put into saucepan l^ cupful of cream, 
season with salt, add 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
stir in peppers, and serve very hot on toast. 

Truffles 

The truffle is a kind of mushroom without 
roots, which is found at a considerable depth 
underground, principally in oak forests. As 
there is no appearance on the surface to indi- 
cate their presence underneath, pigs and dogs 
are employed to find them out, and when they 
begin to scratch the ground the men who are 
with them dig until they are found. There are 
three kinds — ^black, red, and white, and the dif- 
ference arises from the different degrees of 
ripeness to which the truffle has attained. The 
black, being the ripest, are the best. Truffles 
grow on the Continent much more abundantly 
than they do in England. Perigord, in the South 



VEGETABLES 761 

of France, is quite celebrated for them. They 
are seldom eaten alone, but are used for flavoring 
pies, ragouts, and sauces; for stuffing poultry, 
and for garnishing dishes. When good they 
have an agreeable aroma, and are light and 
elastic. They are best when fresh, and lose 
much of their flavor when preserved. They are 
almost inordinately esteemed by epicures, and 
are very expensive. The passion for truffles is 
an acquired one ; it requires an education to un- 
derstand them properly, but those who have 
acquired the taste regard the truffle as the best 
of edible substances. Yet irreverent novices 
make light of them, and compare them to tur- 
nips flavored with tar, and young people seldom 
care for them. They are in season from Oc- 
tober to January, though bottled truffles may be 
bought at the best groceries at any time. 

Truffle Sauce 

Clean and peel 4 truffles, or use bottled truf- 
fles, and cut them into squares of a quarter of 
an inch each way. Put them into a stewpan 
with half a pint of good brown sauce, and stir 
over a gentle fire for ten minutes. Add a glass- 
ful of sherry, and, if liked, a tablespoonful of 
strained lemon juice, and serve. Time, ten 
minutes to boil the sauce. Sufficient for four or 
five persons. 
49 



762 VEGETABLES 

Truffles aux Champagne 

On the subject of truffles prepared in this way, 
the late Alexandre Dumas' " Dictionnaire Gas- 
tronomique " waxes enthusiastic. *' What," he 
says, " can be more exhilarating, more divine, 
than truffles aux Champagne? Take a pound 
of truffles, pour a bottle of Ai mousseux into a 
saucepan ; throw in the truffles, together with a 
little salt, and let them boil in the wine for half 
an hour ; .then serve them hot on a snow-<white 
napkin. Who could resist the power of this 
composition, which charms the palate and 
tickles the fancy? How its enchanting aroma 
caresses, flatters, and rejoices! " 

Truffles with Eggs 

Take a large truffle, clean and pare it, cut it 
into small pieces, and simmer it in a little butter 
over a gentle fire for five or six minutes. Drain 
it, and put it into a clean stewpan with 2 ounces 
of fresh butter, half a dozen fresh eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream, and a little pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir this mixture with 
a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until it begins 
to thicken, then draw it to the side, and beat it 
until the eggs set without being at air hard. 
Put the preparation on a hot dish, and garnish 
with sippets. Time, altogether, ten or fifteen 
minutes. 



FEUITS AND CEEEALS 

FRUITS 
Iced Fruits for Desserts 

Any desirable fruit may be easily iced by 
dipping first in the beaten white of an egg, then 
in sugar finely pulverized, and again in egg, and 
so on until you have the icing of the desired 
thickness. For this purpose oranges or lemons 
should be carefully pared, and all the white 
inner skin removed that is possible, to prevent 
bitterness; then cut either in thin horizontal 
slices if lemons, or in quarters if oranges. For 
cherries, strawberries, currants, etc., choose the 
largest and finest, leaving stiems on. Peaches 
should be pared and cut in halves, and sweet, 
juicy pears may be treated in the same way, or 
look nice when pared, leaving on the stems, and 
iced. Pineapples should be cut in thin slices, 
and these again divided into quarters. 

Pears Imperial 

Bake sunshine cake in muffin tins ; when cool 
scoop out centres; simmer Bartlett pears in 
spiced syrup until tender, fill centres at blossom 
end with dates, figs, and hickory nuts. Set the 

763 



764 FRUITS AND CEREALS 

pears in the cakes. Add maraschino to syrup, 

pour over cakes. Dust with sugar. Serve ice 

cold. 

Grape Tim bale 

Put 1 cupful of. grape pulp and skins through 
sieve; add V3 cupful fine bread crumbs;' 2 eggs, 
1 extra yolk, well beaten; I/2 teaspoonful each 
salt, cloves, and cinnamon ; % teaspoonful black 
pepper; % cupful grape juice. Steam in but- 
tered mould. 

Fruit Cups 

1 pint crushed fruits ; sweeten ; cook 2 table- 
spoonfuls tapioca in 1 pint grape juice until 
tender; add salt and the juice of half a lemon, 
then the fruit; pour into timbale cups. Set on 
jce. When serving garnish with sliced peaches, 
wine jelly, and whipped cream. 

Fruit Cocktail 

Cut tops from Gem melotis; remove seeds; 
fill with cubes of peaches, pineapple, oranges, 
sour apple, pears; cover with French dressing 
made with lemon juice, and add dash of nutmeg 
and teaspoonful Bar-le-duc currants to each 
melon. Serve in crushed ice. 

Fruit Pudding 

Pare and pit peaches; place sultana raisin in 
centre. 1 tablespoonful cake batter in buttered 
cups : drop 1 peach in centre; cover with batter; 



FRUITS AND CEREALS 765 

steam one hour. Unmould when cool; cover 
with orange marmalade; roll in chopped nuts 
and cocoanut. Garnish with stuffed pears. 

Jellied Fruit 

Soak 2 ounces of gelatine in a cup of cold 
water. Boil a cup and a half each of sugar 
and cider, and the rind of 1 lempn, for ten 
minutes ; pour the syrup over the gelatine. Put 
layer sliced peaches and pears and blanched 
almonds in the mould ; fill with the syrup ; chill ; 
garnish with whipped cream. 

Muskmelon Fritters 

Pare and slice muskmelon inch thick; put in 
bowl, add dusting of salt and tablespoonful of 
sherry wine; let stand three hours; drain off 
juice; add it to Ipint of milk', 2 beaten eggs, a 
pinch of nutmeg, flour to make batter; dip 
melon into this ; drop into hot fat ; drain ; dust 
with sugar; serve hot. 

Fruit Parfait 

Cut fine 1 pound marshmallows ; add 1 cupful 
hot pineapple juice and strawberry pulp ; stir 
until melted; make boiled icing, using 2 egg- 
whites; add marshmallow and teaspoonful 
vanilla; beat until cold; add whip of 1 pint 
cream; bury in ice and salt; garnish with pine- 
apple and strawberries. 



766 FRUITS AND CEREALS 



Sea-Urchins 

Wrap pared peaches, stuffed with inara- 
scMno cherries and cinnamon, in rich biscuit 
dough; bake in moderate oven; when done in- 
sert browned almonds throughout ; have a thick 
sauce made of syrup and minced fruit. 

~ Strawberry Cups 

Freeze a strawberry ice ; then line cups with 
it, forming wells in centre ; pack in the ice cave 
for about two hours; unmould and fill centres 
with berries, topping them with whipped cream. 
Other fruits might be used. 

Strawberry Croquettes 

1 pint hot cooked rice, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful fine sugar, 1 teaspoonful each butter 
and berry extract; whip to a paste; form into 
balls; place large berry in centre; cover well; 
dip in bread crumbs, then egg, again in crumbs ; 
fry in deep fat. Decorate with pink frillette 
on each. 

Vegetarian Fruit Course 

Place 5 slices of banana on plate ; then 2 slices 
of pineapple, vandyked on edges ; again 4 slices 
of banana, and 4 large strawberries, sprig of 
mint in centre; sections of oranges, membrane 
removed, on the outer edge. Pass pulverized 
sugar. Dip the banana in lemon juice to pre- 



FRUITS AND CEREALS 767 

vent discoloration, and remove the core from 
the pineapple. 

Mushroom Melon 

1 quart cooked rice beaten to pulp with 1 
tablespoonful butter, teaspoonful salt, pepper, 
1 pint minced cooked mushrooms ; beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Line mould with thick tomato 
puree; then lay in rice; cook in pan of water 
in hot oven half an hour; unmould on a hot 
dish ; garnish with hot mushrooms. 

Fruit Crown 

Prepare compote of fruit, adding fresh cocoa- 
nut; let stand on ice twenty-four hours; drain 
off juice; freeze. Prepare blancmange, using 
red raspberry juice instead of milk; sweeten; 
turn in border mould. When serving unmould 
and place the compote of fruit in centre; then 
heap frozen ice on top ; cherries with stems are 
used as a decoration. 

Balked Apples 

Pare some good apples, and scoop out the 
cores. Put a little sugar and 2 cloves into each 
hollow, place them in a dish, not allowing them 
to touch each other, strew powdered sugar over 
them, and a little sweet wine with some thin 
lemon-rind in it. Cover the dish, and bake in 
a slow oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of 
an hour. Suflficient, one apple for each person. 



868 FRUITS AND CEREALS ^^ 

Baked Apples for Children 

Take a large earthen jar, and fill it to within 
three inches of the top with well-wiped apples 
of any sort in the house. Neither peel them 
nor remove the stalks. Pour over them, so as 
to cover them completely, a mixture of treacle 
or brown sugar and water. If the apples are 
windfalls, you may allow a little extra sweeten- 
ing. Put with them some pieces of orange or 
lemon-peel, and a few cloves. Cover the jar; 
leave it for three or four hours in a cool oven. 
If the oven is too hot, the liquid will boil over 
or evaporate, and the apples be dried up or 
burnt. Allow one for each person. 

Apples Baked Another Way 

Take 8 or 9 good baking-apples ; wipe them 
carefully, and place them in a shallow earthen- 
ware dish, half an inch apart. Put them in a 
gentle oven, cook them as slowly as possible, 
and do not allow them to burst. When quite 
tender, set them aside to cool, and serve with 
sifted sugar. Time to bake, three-quarters of 
an hour. Allow one for each person. 

Apples Stewed in Whiskey 

Pare and core, without dividing, 2 pounds of 
sweet apples. Place them in a saucepan with 
2 glasses of whiskey, a pound and a half of 
sugar, a little whole giager, the rind and juice 



FRUITS AND CEREALS 769 

of 2 lemons, and an incli of cinnamon. Simmer 
very gently for two hours. Take the scum off 
as it rises, and turn the apples every now and 
then. When the apples are clear, take them off 
carefully, place them in the jars in which they 
are to be kept, boil the liquid a few minutes, 
and pour it over them. This is a very nice 
dessert dish. If tied down closely, the fruit 
will keep twelve months. 

Stewed Apples 

Apples are very nice pared, cored, sliced, and 

gently stewed with a little white wine, sugar, 

and 'flavoring. They are quickly prepared, 

served with custard are a pleasant substitute 

for apple pie, and are an agreeable addition to 

the tea-table. They may be mixed with plums 

or other fruit. Time to stew, a quarter of an 

hour. I 

American Apple Butter 

Fill a preserving-pan with apples peeled, 

quartered, and cored. Add a slight flavoring 

of cloves, allspice, and cinnamon. Cover with 

good cider, and boil slowly, stirring from time 

to time with a wooden spoon, until the whole 

becomes a dark-brown jam, with only juice 

sufficient to keep it soft and buttery. Eemove 

it from the :^re, and place in well-covered jars, 

and in a few weeks it will be ready for use. It 



770 FRUITS AND CEREALS 

makes an excellent substitute for butter, and is 
very wholesome for children. Time to pre- 
pare, five or six hours. 

Apples in Pastry 

Peel and core 2 pounds of apples. Put them 
into a pint of cold water with 2 pounds of loaf 
sugar, a little cinnamon, "the juice of a small 
lemon, and a little butter. Boil to a pulp. Well 
oil a pie-dish; line it with good pastry about 
half an inch thick, and bake it in a quick oven. 
Place the apple pulp inside, pour custard over 
it, and ornament with alternate dots of red 
jelly and white of egg. Lift the pastry out pf 
the dish before serving. Time to bake the 
pastry, twenty minutes. Sufficient for five 
persons. . 

Apple Sauce 

Early apples or unripe ones are suitable for 
apple sauce. Pare and slice, and drop into cold 
water. This preserves the color. Cook in a 
nickel saucepan with sufficient water to keep 
from burning. Cover the pan with a close lid 
and do not let any of the steam escape. Shake 
every ten minutes to get even steaming., At 
the end of a half hour, if the apples are soft, 
rub through a colander. Add sugar to taste, 
and a lump of butter to each quart, 

To keep it hot put into a covered dish. If 



FRUITS AND CEREALS 77J 

desired to serve cold, put on ice, first adding 
a little cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Stewed Rhubarb 

The stalks should be firm. Use none that are 
withered. Put them in cold water for an hour, 
Cut up into pieces about % iiich long. Put over 
the fire in a porcelain-lined pan and add plenty 
of sugar. Add sufficient water to cover, and let 
it come slowly to the boiling-point. Let it 
stew gently until tender, and, after taking it 
off the fire, let it get cold before serving. 

Eaisins may be added to this dish. The 
proper proportion is a third of a cupful of 
«"°<ied and cut raisins to 1 cupful of cut 
rtLubarb. 

Gooseberry Tart 

Pick off the tops and stalks of the goose- 
berries. Put them into a pie-dish, pile them 
high in the centre, strew a little sugar over 
them, and add a tablespoonful of water. Line 
the edge of the dish with a good crust, put on 
the cover, and bake in a brisk oven. Strew a 
little powdered sugar over before sending the 
tart to table. A little cream or custard is a 
great improvement to this dish. An ample al- 
lowance of sugar is required for gooseberries, 
especially when they are partially ripe. The 
smell of gooseberry tart, we may observe, by 



772 FRUITS AND CEREALS 



the way, exactly resembles that of the true for- 
get-me-not. 2% pints of gooseberries -will 
make a pie for four or five persons. Time to 
bake, three-quarters of an hour. 

Gooseberry Souffl6 

Pick the gooseberries, and boil them with a 
liberal allowance of sugar until tender. Press 
them through a coarse sieve, and put the pulp 
into a glass dish. Let it grow cold, then pour 
over it a good custard. This may be made with 
the yolks of eggs, and the whites may be beaten 
till firm and cooked, as described under the 
heading, " Eggs as Snow." The appearance is 
improved by coloring half the white of egg with 
a few drops of cochineal. Time, about three- 
quarters of an hour to boil a quart of goose- 
berries till they are tender. Sufficielit, a quart 
of gooseberries and^ pint and a half of custard 
for six or eight persons. 

To Serve Oranges, etc. 

Keep oranges in ice chest until ready to 
serve. For each person serve one orange, cut 
crosswise — the two halves served on paper nap- 
kin or on grape or other leaves. The orange 
spoon gotten up for this particular way of eat- 
ing oranges should be used. 

Grapefruit is also served in the same manner 
as the above, only a sharp knife is run along 



FRUITS AlSfD CEREALS 773 

just inside the rind so as to separate it from 
the pulp. Powdered sugar is served and used 
according to the individual taste. 

Peaches, apples, pears, plums, bananas, and 
grapes should not be taken from the ice chest 
until time to be served. They should be wiped 
with a soft cloth and piled up in fruit-dish, to 
be selected from according to the individual 
taste ; or, if the supply is limited, one is served 
on a plate, if large fruit, and two or three if 
small fruit. The grapes should be immersed 
in ice water and drained before serving. 

Berries should all be thoroughly washed by 
quick immersion in ice water (under no condi- 
tion allowed to stand, as they become soggy). 
Place on soft cloth and dry; serve in berry 
saucer. To be eaten with or without sugar and 
cream, according to the individual. It is much 
better not to sugar fruit when serving it en 
masse, as the individual taste is so varied, and 
the sugar, if allowed to stand on berries, makes 
them soggy and draws out the juices. 

Melons (Musk or Canteloupe) 

Eemove melon from the ice. Cut in half, 
remove seeds, and fill with cracked ice ; send to 
table on napkin, half a melon being usually al- 
lowed to each person. Sugar, pepper, and salt 
are served with melons. 



774 FRUITS AND CEREALS 

Stewed fruits (dried or fresh) are usually 

supplied with their own sauce, should be served 

very cold, and accompanied by a pitcher of 

cold cream. 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash the prunes and soak for five hours or 

more in cold water. Put into a saucepan with 

sufficient water to cover, and simmer gently for 

twenty minutes. Add sugar to sweeten to taste, 

and continue to simmer until tender. Serve 

cold. 

Grape Pudding: ' 

Soak Vz box gelatine in % cupful of cold 

water. Add 1 cupful boiling water, the juice of 

1 lemon, 1 cupful sugar, and 1 pint grape juice. 

Place on ice; when it begins to jelly fold in 

the stiffly beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Pour into 

mould. When set and jellied turn out, and 

garnish with bunch of grapes. 

Compdte of Fruit 

Boil sugar and water until thick. Drop in 
pared fruit and stew until tender; take out. 
Boil the remaining syrup until thick and pour 
over the fruit. Chill before serving. 

Grapes in Jelly 

To 1 quart hot grape juice add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls dissolved gelatine. Place a layer at the 
bottom of a mould; chilL Then add a row of 



FRUITS AND CEREALS 775 

grapes cut in half and seeded; then more 
liquid and again cMU, until set; repeat until 
mould is full. When jellied, unmould; garnish 
with whipped cream. 

Raw Cherries 

Raw cherries are at their best for the fruit 
course if ice cold. They may be served with 
the stems on in dish with cracked ice, 

• 

Pineapples 

The best way to serve pineapples is to avoid 
slicing. The method employed by the Cubans 
is to remove the outside skin. Then, beginning 
at the bottom, insert a fork as deeply as possible 
over the first row of little sections and press 
downward. Eepeat this until all the pulp is 
removed from the core in little sections. When 
served in this way the coarse fibre of the apple 
is not noticed, and is far more palata,ble than 
slicing. 

CEREALS 

Oatmeal Porridge 

Put a pint and a half of water or milk and 
water into a saucepan, and add a pinch of 
salt. When the liquid fully boils, as it is rising 
in the pan, sprinkle gradually 2 ounces of oat- 
meal into it with the left hand, and at the same 
time stir briskly with a fork held in the right 



776 FRUITS AND CEREALS 



hand. Keep stirring until the lumps are 
beaten out. Boil the mixture for a quarter ot 
an hour, pour it on a plate, and eat it with milk 
and sugar, syrup or butter. A larger or a 
smaller quantity of oatmeal may be used, ac- 
cording to taste. Porridge will be found to 
make a very nourishing and wholesome break- 
fast for children. The secret of making it 
properly is to let the water boil fast before put- 
ting in the oatmeal. Time, a quarter of an 
hour from when the water boils. Sufficient for 
two persons. 

Boiled Breakfast Hominy 

Into a quart of highly salted water stir in 
half pint of hominy. Time to boil, one hour.' 
If preferred, use half milk and half water. To 
be eaten with milk and sugar, or with butter 
and pepper if desired, as a vegetable. Farina 
is treated in a like manner^ hominy taking much 
longer to cook than farina. 

All cereals can be treated in same manner 
as hominy, taking longer time when cooked in 
a double boiler. 

Fried Hominy 

The remains of breakfast hominy should be 
packed solid in a, vegetable dish. When cold, 
cut in half -inch slices, dip in beaten egg, roll in 
bread crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat or in 



FRUITS AND CEREALS 777 



butter, or dripping in an omelet-pan. Drain, 
and serve, sprinkled with sugar or salt. To 
be served either as a vegetable or as a dessert. 
Fried hominy is frequently prepared by .cutting 
into inch cubes instead of slices. 

Hominy Croquettes 

Wash half pint of hominy in cold water; 
drain, and cook in a double boiler for three 
hours. Add to the milk 1 teaspoonful salt, a 
saltspoonful of pepper, and a few drops of 
onion juice. Boil hominy, then. stir in the well- 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs ; pour into dish to cool ; 
form into croquettes, dip in egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Drain, and serve 
piled up on napkin. Tonaatoes, cheese, cream, 
or other sauces or gravies may be served with 
the croquettes. 

Milk Porridge 

Dissolve 4 tablespoonfuls of flour in a little 
cold milk, and gradually add more cold milk, 
1 pint in all. Have on the stove 1 pint of milk ; 
season with salt when boiling; stir rapidly and 
pour in gradiaally the flour and milk mixture. 
Keep stirring until of a porridge eonsistency. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 
50 



BREAD AND CAKES 

BREAD 

1 cake of compressed yeast to every quart 
of wetting. Wetting — ^half new milk and half 
water, 75° to 80° when mixed. Pour enough 
cold water over the yeast to dissolve it. Mix 
to a light dough with flour, the wetting of milk 
and water, and the yeast. Add, during the knead- 
ing, a level teaspoonful of salt. Eaiead till per- 
fectly smooth — it will take at least half an hour. 
Put in a greased bread-pan, rub the top over 
with melted butter, and keep at a temperature 
of 75° for three hours, or set overnight, cover- 
ing pan with towel ; then cover with lid. In the 
morning make into loaves and rub over with 
melted butter, and put into greased baking- 
tins. Let the loaves rise for one hour and then 
bake one hour. Fine rolls may be made by 
adding a little butter and a very little sugar to 
some of this dough ; an hour and a half before 
the rolls are wanted the dough should be rolled 
out about a quarter of an inch thick, cut out 
with a cake-cutter, rubbed over with melted 
butter, and folded over. They should be al- 

778 



BREAD AND CAKES 779 



lowed one hour for rising and should be baked 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

Pulled Bread 

Take the crust off a newly baked loaf while 
it is still warm. Pull it lightly and quickly 
with the fingers of both hands into rough pieces, 
and bake these in a slow oven until they are 
lightly browned and crisp. 

Unfermented Bread 

Fermented bread is sometimes considered un- 
wholesome. Those who are of this opinion 
may make their bread as follows : Mix 1 ounce 
of bicarbonate of soda with 8 pounds of flour. 
Stir 1 ounce of tartaric acid with 4 pints of 
warm water. Stir the liquor into the flour 
briskly, and with a wooden spoon, till the in- 
gredients are thoroughly blended; divide the 
dough into loaves, and bake these immediately 
in a brisk oven. It will need to bake as long as 
yeast bread usually does. 

Whole-Wheat Bread 

Dissolve a cake of yeast in a cupful of warm 
water. Measure out 2 cupf uls of milk, and pour 
onto this 2 cupfuls of boiling water. Add to this 
by stirring a teaspoonful of salt and of sugar. 
When these are at about 98° temperature add 
the yeast. Then add a quart of whole-wheat 



780 BREAD AND CAKES 

flour, or enough to make a good batter. Beat 
for five minutes as hard as you can, and add 
flour until you can handle it — no more. Knead 
this for ten minutes and set for three hours, to 
let it rise. Then knead for five minutes more 
and, after making it into loaves, let it rise 
again ; then bake. Small loaves will bake in . 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Graham Bread 

This is made the same as white bread. Set 
the sponge in the same way and treat in the 
morning by working into a cupful of salted 
whole-wheat flour 3 cupfuls of Graham flour 
and 3 tablespoonfuls of molasses. Knead hard 
and long, and set it to rise. As soon as it is light 
make into loaves and then let it rise another 
hour. Bake in even oven. The best result in 
baking is obtained by covering with thick paper 
for the first half hour they are in the oven. 
Then take off paper and let loaves brown. 
When made with a potato sponge it will keep 
fresh longer than otherwise. 

Virginia Corn Bread 

Take 1 pint of hot corn meal mush ; 1 table- 
spoonful of melted butter or lard ; two eggs 
beaten separately. 

Add sweet milk enough to make it like cake 



BREAD AND CAKES 78J 

batter, put in buttered pudding-dish, and bake 
from one-half to three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve in the dish. 

Plain Corn Bread 

1 egg well beaten, 2 cupfuls of sour milk, 1 
even teaspoonful of soda, corn meal enough to 
make a thick batter, and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted lard or butter. Bake in a hot oven. 

Boston Brown Bread 

Beat together thoroiighly 1 cupful New Or- 
Itans molasses, 1 cupful sweet milk, 1 cupful 
sour milk. Add to this 1 heaping cupful each 
of corn meal rye, and Graham flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, and 1 full teaspoonful soda, thoroughly 
mixed together and sifted. Pour into a well- 
buttered tin mould or pail with a tight-fitting 
lid (the Aixture should fill the mould about 
three-fourths full), place in a kettle of cold 
water and boil four hours. See that the water 
does not boil up to the top of the mould; also 
take care that it does not stop boiling, or boil 
entirely away. To serve, remove the lid of the 
mould and set it a few minutes in the oven to 
dry the top; it will then turn out in perfect 

shape. 

Rye Bread 

Dissolve into a quarter-cup of lukewarm 

milk a half cake of yeast. Add a pint of luke- 



782 BREAD AND CAKES 



warm water after pouring it into a wooden 
bowl. Also, a teaspoonful eaeli of caraway 
seeds (this may be omitted if yon do not like 
them), salt, and a pint of rye flour. Stir thor- 
oughly, and set it to rise in a warm place for 
about two hours. It will be full of bubbles 
when it has risen enough. Sufficient flour must 
then be added to make a stiJ dough. Beat for 
ten minutes and set to rise for another two 
hours. Knead well on a floured board, put it 
back into the pan, and set to rise until it cracks. 
Wet the loBf with cold water slightly and place 
it in the oven. Bake one hour. Keep the oven 
closed for ten minutes after it is put in. The 
oven should be very hot at first. When 
browned, cover with heavy paper. 

Bread-Sticks * 

Dissolve 1 cake of yeast in % cupful luke- 
warm water. Put in bread-pan 1 cupful milk, 
1 cupful boiling water, and 1 cupful warm 
water. The temperature of the whole will be 
lukewarm. Sift in enough flour to make stiff 
enough to handle; knead until it no longer 
sticks to the pan or fingers. Sift flour on bread- 
board and knead some time. Place back in 
greased bread-pan and allow to rise for three 
hours. Knead again well into long, thin sticks 
to fit bread-stick-pan, brush with melted butter. 



BREAD AND CAKES 783 

and bake ten minutes. Serve as a side-disli in 
long, narrow glasses at dinner. 

ROLLS 

Currant Rolls 

2 cupfuls sifted flour, 2 slightly rounded tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder, 1/2 teaspoonful salt, 1 
rounded tablespoonful sugar; sift tbese to- 
gether; add 1% rounding tablespoonfuls but- 
ter; rub thoroughly through the flour; beat 1 
egg, add % cupful of milk ; add tjiis to dry ma- 
terial and stir to smooth dough quickly and 
lightly. Turn on to a floured board, roll out into 
sheet about i/4 inch thick, spread with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter which has been creamed, 
sprinkle with 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar 
which has been mixed with 1 teaspoonful of cin- 
namon, sprinkle with % cupful of dried cur- 
rants that have been picked and thoroughly 
washed and" dried ; cut into strips ; roll into 
small, thin rolls. Bake in quick oven for about 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

Quick Rolls 

Sift 1 pint flour, % teaspoonful salt, and 1 
teaspoonful each of sugar and baking-powder 
together, rub % tablespoonful each of butter 
and lard into it. Mix with 1 cupful of milk, 
stirring quickly with a spoon. Roll out, spread 
with soft butter, and roll up. Form into small 



784 BREAD AND CAKES 



rolls and brush with melted butter; bake in 
quick oven. 

Sally Lunn 

Warm % cupful of butter in 1 pint of milk; 
add 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1, tablespoonful of 
sugar, and 4 cupfuls of sifted flour ; beat thor- 
oughly, and when the mixture is blood-warm 
add 4 beaten eggs, and, last of all, % cupful of 
good, lively yeast or i/^ cake of compressed 
yeast dissolved in lukewarm water. Beat hard 
until the batter breaks in blisters. Set it to 
rise. In the morning dissolve a teaspoonful 
of soda. Stir it into the batter and turn it 
into a well-buttered shallow dish to rise again 
in about fifteen or twenty minutes. Bake about 
twenty minutes, until a light brown. They 
should be torn apart, not cut. These are often 
seen on Southern tables. 

Rusk 

1 pint of warm milk, % cupful of yeast or i/^ 
cake of dried yeast. Mix sufficient flour to 
make a thick sponge ; when light, work in 1 cup- 
ful of sugar, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, 
2 or 3 well-beaten eggs, % teaspoonful salt; add 
flour sufficient to mould. Let rise until light, 
and then make into small balls. Arrange 
closely in a buttered tin, let rise again, then 
brush over with sweetened milk, and bake. 



BREAD AND CAKES 785 

Coffee-Bread 

1 cake, of compressed yeast soaked in V3 cup- 
ful of tepid milk. Sift and weigh 2 pounds of 
flour. Early in the morning make a small hole 
in the flour and put in it the milk and yeast; 
stir into a batter. Let this stand until light, 
from one to three hours. Then take % pound 
of washed butter, 1 small teacupful of sugar, 1 
small teacupful of milk, the grated rind of a 
lemon, and 7 eggs. Put this in the bowl with 
the flour and yeast, and stir until thoroughly 
mixed. Set aside to rise. Separate into two 
parts, each of these into three parts, pull these 
into long rolls, and braid. Put into two but- 
tered pans and let rise. When ready to put 
into the oven brush over with milk and egg 
(stirred together) and sift sugar on top. 

Scotch Shortbread 

2 pounds of flour, 1 pound of butter, ^ pound 
of sugar. Work the butter to a cream, add the 
sugar and stir in the flour, work them well to- 
gether. Cut and roll out about an inch thick, 
nick round the edges, and prick with a fork. 
Bake in a moderate oven on paper for half an 
hour. 

Scotch Soda Scones 
1 pound flour, % teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
% teaspoonful soda, i/4 teaspoonful salt, % pint 



786 BREAD AND CAKES 

buttermilk. Eub all the lumps out of the sod'a, 
mix dry ingredients first. Add enough butter- 
milk to make a light dough; turn out on a 
floured board and quickly knead till smooth. 
Press out to a round cake, divide it crosswise 
in four, place the scones on a floured griddle, 
and cook for ten minutes ; turn them, and cook 
the other side for ten minutes. They should 
be pressed to i/4-inch thickness, and will rise 
to be more than an inch. They can be rolled 
thinner if required. An ounce of butter makes 
the scones shorter. 

Breakfast Rolls 

1% pints flour; % pint Indian corn meal 
(white) ; 1 teaspoonful salt; 2 teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing-powder; 1 tablespoonful butter or lard; % 
pint milk. Sift together flour, corn meal, salt, 
and powder; rub in shortening; add the milk, 
mix smoothly into rather firmer dough than 
usual. Flour the board, turn out the dough, 
give it one or two turns to complete its sniooth- 
ness. Divide it, thus prepared, into pieces size 
of an egg; again divide these in half, which roll 
out under the hand until they are long and half 
the size of one's little finger. Lay on greased 
baking-tin so that they do not touch. Brush 
them over with milk. Bake in hot oven seven 
or eight minutes. 



BREAD AND CAKES 787 



Parker House Rolls 

Prepare firm dough by taking 1 quart of 
flour, 1 teaspooiiful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder, 1 tablespoonful of butter or 
lard, and 1 pint of milk. Sift together the 
flour, salt, and powder; rub in the shortening; 
add the milk, and mix to a smooth dough, to be 
easily handled. Flour the board, turn out the 
dough, and knead thoroughly to make it 
smooth. Roll out to thickness of half an inch. 
Cut into three-inch circles. Press a pencil 
down across the middle of each; rub the edges 
with soft butter. Double each one over, and 
lay them an inch apart on flat, greased pans. 
Brush with milk, and bake in a hot oven. 

Graham Rolls 

1 pint Graham flour ; 1 pint wheat flour ; 1 tea- 
spoonful salt ; 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder ; 1 
tablespoonful butter or lard; |- pint milk. Sift to- 
gether Graham flour, wheat flour, salt, and bak- 
ing powder ; rub in shortening; add milk, and 
mix whole into smooth dough that can be 
handled — not too soft.; flour the board, turn it 
out, and form into rolls shape and size of large 
fingers. Lay them on baking-sheet so that they 
will not touch. Brush their surfaces with soft 
brush dipped in milk to glaze them. Bake in 
hot oven from ten to twelve minutes. 



788 BREAD AND CAKES 

MUFFINS. BUNS, AND BISCUIT 
Hot Cross Buns 

Mix 2 pounds of flour with a small teaspoon- 
ful of powdered spice and half a teaspoon - 
ful of salt. Rub in | pound of good butter. 
Make a hollow in the flour, and pour in a wine- 
glassful of yeast and half a pint of warmed 
milk slightly colored with saffron. Mix the 
surrounding flour with the milk and yeast to a 
thin batter; throw a little dry flour over, and 
set the pan before the fire to rise. When risen, 
work in a little sugar, 1 egg, half a pound of 
currants, and milk to make a soft dough. Knead 
lightly. Cover over as before, and let it stand 
an hour. Then make the dough into buns, and 
mark them with back of knife. Let rise once 
more and bake 15 to 20 minutes. Glaze with 
milk and sugar. 

English Muffins 

Stir flour enough into a pint of warm milk, and 
about a quarter of a pint of yeast to ijiake a 
thin batter, then put it in a warm place to rise. 
Rub 2 ounces of butter into a little flour, add 
salt, and with more milk and flour make the 
batter into a stiff dough. Put it aside well cov- 
ered up in a warm place for half an hour, when 
the dough will be quite ready to shape into 
muffins, but they should not be baked until they 
have stood for another quarter of an hour. 



BREAD AND CAKES 789 

They are easily baked in a frying-pan or on a 
griddle. Time to bake, twenty minutes to half 
an hour. 

English Breakfast Cakes or Rolls 

Make a batter with 2 pounds of flour, and 
as much warm milk and water, with about a 
quarter of a pint of fresh yeast, and a little 
salt, as will smooth it. Let it stand before the 
fire to rise for two hours. Have ready a little 
flour and butter well rubbed together, and make 
the batter with this, and as much more flour as 
may be required, into a light dough. Make it 
into rolls and bake on tins ; rasp, and keep them 
covered \xp warm till wanted. Time, fifteen to 
twenty miiiiites. 

Milk Biscuit 

Put 34 of a cupful lukewarm milk into mix- 
ing-pan. Sift in 1 quart flour; add 1 table- 
spoonful each of butter and lard, cottolene, or 
other fat. Mix into the flour before, adding to 
the milk 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder 
and % teaspoonful salt ; mix all together into 
a soft dough. Lay out on floured bread board, 
roll an inch thick and cut into rounds, and 
bake in buttered tin. Brush over with melted 
butter. 

Milk-and-water biscuit are made in the same 
manner as milk biscuit, but instead of using all 



790 BREAD AND CAKES 

milk, as for the milk biscuit, use half milk and 
half water. 

Rice Muffins 

2 cupfuls cold boiled rice, 1 pint flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful sugar, I1/2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder, % pint milk, 3 eggs. 
Dilute rice, made free from lumps, with milk 
and beaten eggs ; sift together flour, sugar, salt, 
and powder; add to rice preparation, mix into 
smooth, rather firm batter; muffin-pans to be 
cold and well greased, then fill two-thirds ; bake 
in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Hominy Muffins 

Same as rice muffins, substituting 1 cupful 
boiled hominy for the rice. 

Sally Lunn Muffins 

1 quart flour, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 1 
tablespoonful butter or lard, 1 egg, 1% pints 
milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and 
powder; rub in shortening; add egg (beaten) 
and milk; mix into rather firm batter; muffin- 
pans to be cold and well greased, then fill two- 
thirds. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Graham Muffins 

1 quart Graham flour, 1 tablespoonful brown 
sugar, 1 teaspoonf ul salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 



BREAD AND CAigES 79J 

powder, 1 egg, 1 pint milk. Sift together Gra- 
ham flour, sugar, salt, and powder ; add beaten 
egg and milk ; mix into batter like pound cake ; 
muffin-pans, well greased, two-thirds full ; bake 
in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

^Oatmeal Muffins 

1 cupful oatmeal, 1% pints flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 1 table- 
spoonful lard, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift to- 
gether oaltmeal, flour, salt, and powdgr; rub in 
lard cold, add beaten eggs and milk; mix 
smoothly into batter rather thilmer than cup 
cake; fill muffin-pans two-thirds full; bake in 
good hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Egg Muffins 

1 quart flour, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 large tablespoonful butter, 2 
teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 3 'eggs, liA pints 
milk. Sift together flour, sugar, gait, and pow- 
der ; rub in the butter ; add the beaten eggs and 
milk; mix quickly into a smooth batter, a little 
firmer than for griddle cakes; two-thirds fill 
cold, carefully greased muffin-pans ; bake in hot 
oven fifteen minutes. 

Butter Cakes 

Mix 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder. Bub in 3 table- 



792 BREAD AND CAKES 

spoonfuls butter. Mix to a soft dough with 
milk, roll out three-fourths of an inch thick, cut 
in round cakes. Lay on a moderately hot, 
greased griddle, and when pale brown turn and 
brown on other side. Tear open, buttefr lib- 
erally, and send to table. 

Graham Gem^ 

1% pints Graham flour, 1/2 pitit Indian corn 
meal, 1 teaspoonful salt; 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, V^ pints milk. Sift together Grraham 
flour, corn meal, salt, and powder. Add the 
milk, and mix into a moderately stiff batter. 
Half fill cold gem-pans, well greased. Bake in 
a solid hot oven ten to twelve minutes. 

Rice Gems 

1 egg, 1 cupful milk, 1 cupful cold boiled rice, 
1 cupful flour, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, % 
teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Mix as for plain gems, and bake in hot oven in 
gein-pans. 

Apple Gems 

Chop fine 4 sour apples, add 1 beaten egg, 2 
tablespoonfuls molasses, II/2 cupfuls Indian 
corn meal, ,li/2 cupfuls flour, 1/0 teaspoonful 
salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Add suffi- 
cient milk to make thick drop batter, and bake 
in hot greased gem-pans. 



BREAD AND CAKES 793 

How to Use up Stale Bread" 

When bread has become so hard that it can- 
not be eaten, it should be grated into coarse 
powder, and preserved in wide-mouthed bottles 
or jars. When kept well covered up, and in a 
dry place, it will remain good for a considerable 
time. Bread thus powdered will be found very 
useful for the preparation of puddings, stuff- 
ings, and similar purposes. 

German Toast 

Take the remains of cold stew, or fricassee. 
Mince it finely, and mix with a piat of it, in- 
cludiug the gravy, 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and 1 onion, finely 
minced. Stir the mixture over a slow fire until 
it is thick, and one-third of it boiled away. Let 
it get quite cold. Spread it on pieces of toast, 
brush it over with bfeaten egg, strew bread 
crumbs on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Just before serving, sqeeze a little lemon 
juice over the toast. Time to bake, a quarter of 
an hour, or until the toast is thoroughly heated 
through. 

Buttered Toast 

Toast which is to be buttered should be cut 

from a loaf one or two days old, in slices about 

the third of an inch thick. Cut off the crust, 

and toast the bread before a clear, bright fire. 

51 



794 BREAD AND CAKES 

Wlien it is equally and lightly colored on one 
side turn it to do the other. Place little pieces 
of butter here and there upon it, put it before 
the fire for a minute or two till the butter is 
soft, then spread it upon the toast, taking care 
not to press heavily upon the bread, or the toast 
will be heavy. Cut each slice separately into 
strips an inch and a half broad, and pile these 
on a hot dish. If one or two slices are cut 
through together, the butter will sink from the 
upper piece to the lower. Some cooks hold the 
toasted bresid over a bowl of boiling water for 
a minute before buttering it. This is to soften 
it, that it may take the butter more readily. 
Buttered toast should be prepared at the last 
moment, and served very hot. 

Dry toast is made as the above with the ex- 
ception of buttering and steaming. 

Bread Fried for Soup 

Take 1 or 2 slices of stale bread a quarter of 
an inch thick. Remove the crust and cut them 
into small dice not more than a quarter of an 
inch square. Half fill an iron saucepan with 
frying fat, and let this boil, which it will do 
when it is still, and a blue smoke rises from it. 
'Put the sippets, a few at a time, into a frying- 
basket, plunge them into the fat, and shake 
them about until they are a golden brown color. 



BREAD AND CAKES 795 



Turn them upon kitchen paper to free them 
from grease, take another spoonful and proceed 
as before, until a sufficient quantity of sippets 
are fried. Put the fried bread upon a dish cov- 
ered with a napkin, and hand round with the 
soup. Sometimes the sippets are put into the 
soup tureen, and the soup is poured over them. 
Also cut in diamond shapes, and prepared as 
the above, to use for garnishing (sippets). 

Milk Toast 

Toast bread as for buttered toast. Dip each 
piece quickly in boiling water, place in baking- 
pan, and cover with scalded milk. Bake for fif- 
teen minutes, and serve in soup-plates. The 
toast can also be served by putting piece of but- 
tered bread which has been held over the steam, 
and covering with scalded milk. 

Cream Toast 

Cook as the above, using half cream and half 
milk. Place pinch .of soda in cream to prevent 
its curdling. The milk can be flavored with 
vanilla and slightly thickened with a teaspoon- 
ful of corn starch dissolved in cold milk. 

Either of the recipes can be made with Gra- 
ham bread, if desired. 

Fried or French Toast 

Cut rather thick slices of stale bread, rounded 
with a cake-cutter. Put into a deep platter a 



796 BREAD AND CAKES 

batter composed of 1 cup of milk, seasoned witi 
a pincli of salt, and 1 egg, well beaten. Dip 
each piece of bread into tlie batter until sat- 
urated; drain carefully, and fry in hot butter 
or drippings or in deep fat. Drain, and dust 
with powdered sugar. 

Oyster Toast 

Prepare as for oyster stew a dozen oysters, 
using but one glass of milk. Boil for three min- 
utes. Dissolve a tablespoonful flour in cold 
milk and stir into the oysters. Season with 
pepper and a piece of butter. Pour over toast. 
Squeeze a little lemon juice over the oysters be- 
fore serving. 

Creamed iVIushroom Toast 

Stew the mushrooms in a little milk; add V^ 

cupful of sweet butter. Boil until tender. Add 

% cupful rich cream, and boil until of a thick, 

creamy , consistency. The beaten yolk of an 

egg can be stirred in to thicken, or flour and 

milk as in oyster toast. Serve on hot buttered 

toast. 

Zwieback 

Take rusks of bread or biscuit left over from 

breakfast ; cut in half. Place in baking-pan in 

moderate oven. Bake until thoroughly dry, 

and when dry freshen up the fire and bake a 

golden brown. Slices of bread can be used the 



BREAD AND CAKES 797 

same way. Keep dry after removing from 
oven and cooling by putting into a tin box. 

Cheese Toast 

Sprinkle hot toasted bread with grated 
cheese, season with a dash of cayenne, and place 
in oven for a few minutes until cheese is dis- 
solved. Then serve. Or treat as milk toast 
baked, pouring over a custard instead of plain 
milk. 

SANDWICHES 

Cut the crust from the loaf before slicing it 
for sandwiches ; this insures uniformity in size 
if they are not to be cut in a fancy shape. If 
butter is to be used, have it soft enough to 
spread easily, and spread it on the end of the 
loaf before cutting the slice ; the latter can then 
be cut very thin and will not be broken in 
spreading. 

Meat Sandwiches 
Any kind of cold meat, roast beef or other 
roast meat, boiled beef tongue, ham, or potted 
meats are always in order for sandwiches. In 
using ,roast beef, cut very thia, carefully trim 
out any gristle or tendon, and cut the meat in 
small pieces, 

• Either roast beef or boiled ham should be 
exceedingly tender to use in large slices. Ham 



798 BREAD AND CAKES 



is better chopped. After spreading sufficient 
on the slice of bread press together, and if the 
slices are large, cut into convenient size. A 
club sandwich must necessarily be large, but 
others are less awkward to handle if cut in two. 

Use Worcestershire sauce or tomato catsup 
with roast beef, pork, or lamb. Tongue and 
ham require mustard. 

The potted ham, tongue, and chicken that are 
to be had m small cans niake a very satisfactory 
sandwich. Use separately or take equal parts 
of each, and mix to a paste with mayonnaise or 
boiled salad dressing or tomato catsup. Spread 
on either white or browft bread. 

Chicken Sandwiches 

Cut thin slices of white bread slightly but- 
tered, and spread with thin slices of the breast 
of cold chicken; sprinkle lightly with salt and 
pepper, cover the chicken with mayonnaise or 
any other thick, salad dressing, then with an- 
other slice of bread. Press lightly together 
and cut in two across the slice. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop 2 whites of hard-boiled eggs very fine. 
Put the yolks through a strainer or mash thor- 
oughly with a silver fork. Mix well, season 
with salt and pepper, moisten with a little may- 
onnaise or cream salad dressing. Spread on 



BREAD AND CAKES 799 

buttered slipes of white or entire-wheat bread, 
cover, and press lightly together. 

Or slice the whites of the eggs very thin, lay 
them on the buttered bread, and cover with the 
seasoned yolks and dressing, then with a crisp 
lettuce leaf, and finish with a top slice of bread. 

Russian Sandwiches 

Spread saltine crackers or zepherettes with 
rich cream cheese, add chopped olives mixed 
with mayonnaise. Cover with one of the 
crackers and press together. 

The cheese and olives are also delicious as a 
filling with slices of entire wheat or Boston 
brown bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Cut very thin slices of rich cheese, lay thin 
on brown bread, dust lightly with cayenne or 
paprika, and cover as usual. Or use grated 
Edam or Parmesan cheese in the same way. 
Or grate mild domestic cream cheese, mix with 
chilli sauce or tomato catsup, and spread be- 
tween either white or brown bread. 

Nut Sandwiches 

Chop or grind equal parts of peanuts, Eng- 
lish walnuts, and pecans ; mix well, with plenty 
of salt; mix with enough softened butter or 
thick, rich cream to bind together, add a dash 



800 BREAD AND CAKES 

of paprika, and spread between thin slices of 
entire wheat or brown bread. Either of these 
nuts may be used alone if preferred or more 
convenient. 

Cheese-and-Nut Sandwiches 

Chop cream cheese, mix it with an equal 
quantity of chopped nut meat, ad^ salt and a 
dash of cayenne; spread between slightly but- 
tered slices of bread. Cut in rounds or tri- 
angles. 

Harlequin Sandwiches 

Use for each sandwich a layer of white and 
a layer of brown bread. Butter the bread, and 
spread with a mixture of chopped nuts and 
cream cheese, or a layer of tart apple sauce 
sprinkled with nutmeg or cinnamon, and moist- 
ened with whipped cream. 

Tutti-Frutti Sandwiches 

Butter thin slices of white bread cut in 
rounds. Fill with lemon jelly that has been 
filled very full of chopped nuts, dates, chopped 
figs, sliced bananas, and any other fruit at hand, 
and made very firm. Turn the jelly out of the 
mould and slice and place between the slices of 
bread. 

After making, they must be kept in the re- 
frigerator until ready to serve, or the jelly will 
become so soft as to soak into the bread. They 



BREAD AND CAKES 80J 

do not, therefore, lend themselves readily to a 
picnic luncli, but are a novel accessory to the 
Sunday-evening lunch on a hot day, and the 
jelly may be prepared the day previous and left 
on thq ice until a short time before the meal. 

Nut-Butter Sandwiches 

Take a half cup of good nut butter, add a half 
cupful of rich, sweet cream, and mix to a paste. 
Add salt if needed, and a dash of cayenne or 
paprika. Spread between thin slices of white 
bread or thin, crisp crackers. Press together. 

Fish Sandwiches 

Pound the coral of a lobster. Mash the hard- 
boiled yolks of 3 or 4 eggs. SJjin and bon^ 2 
salted anchovies -^ mash these, and mix all to- 
gether. Season with a spoonful of lemon juice, 
one half, teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly. Cut thin ■ 
slices of Boston brown bread; spread with the 
fish mixture ; cover with a crisp leaf of lettuce, 
then with another slice of bread. Cut in ha]*p^es 
or quarters. 

Any cold fish may be substituted for the 

16bster. 

Another Fish Sandwich 

Use any cold boiled fish — cod, bluefish, had- 
dock,- or white fish. Flake quite fine, or pound; 
mix with each cupful of flaked fish 1 hg,rd- 



802 BREAD AND CAKES 

boiled egg, chopped, and sufficient white sauce 
or sweet cream to moisten. Add a little 
Worcestershire sauce, and a half teaspoonful of 
very finely minced parsley. Spread between 
sHees of bread. 

Sardine Sandwiches 

Eemove the bone from sardines; rub to a 
paste with a little Worcestershire sauce and 
lemon juice. Butter and cut thin slices of Bos- 
ton brown bread, spread with the sardine mix- 
ture, cover with another slice, and cut across, 
making them semi-circular in shape.- 

Salmon Sandwiches 

Use cold boiled or canned salmon. Mince 
fine; add lemon juice and the yolks of 1 or 2 
hard-boiled eggs to a cupful of the minced fish. 
Season with salt and cayenne. Spread thin 
slices of bread with the mixture and cover with 
another slice, either with or without the addi- 
tion of a leaf of crisp lettuce or a few sprigs of 
watercress sprinkled with salt. 

Strawberry Sandwiches 

% cupful soft butter; add 7 cleaned berries, 
1 cupful confectioners' sugar, tablespoonful 
lemon juice; mash; set on ice to chill; spread 
crustless fresh bread and roll; pin in cloth for 
three hours. Arrange in a pyramid on a lace- 



BREAD AND CAKES 803 

paper doily and decorate with whole berries 
and their foliage. 

Watercress or other Salad Sandwiches 

Prepare bread for sandwiches. Take water- 
cress that has been washed and shaken dry. 
Dip into French salad dressing and put on 
bread; a little cheese, creamed, or French mus- 
tard spread over salad greens makes a pala- 
table addition. Lettuce, nasturtium, and other 
salad greens may also be prepared in the above 
manner. The greens may be shredded or 
chopped, and mayonnaise dressing may be sub- 
stituted for French dressing. 

Nut-and-Fruit Sandwiches 

Dates, nuts, figs, raisins, chopped up together 
or separately, spread between very thin slices 
of buttered white or Graham bread, and sea- 
soned with a pinch of salt, are found to be very 

palatable. 

Ad'elaide Sandwiches 

Cut up cold chicken and ham in small squares, 
in the proportion of two-thirds of chicken to 
one-third of ham. Next place 2 large table- 
spoonfuls of sauce and 1 of curry paste in a 
stewpan, and when they boil add the chicken 
and ham, mixing all well together. Prepare 
thin slices of stale bread, cut in small circles, by 
frying them in clarified butter. Spread the 



804 BREAD AND CAKES 

prepared chicken and ham slightly between two 
slices of the bread. Place the sandwiches on a 
baking-pan; bake for five minutes in a brisk 
oven, sprinkling over the top of each sandwich 
a little grated Parmesan. Dish up on a napkin, 
and serve as a second-course savory dish. 

The remains of fish or game may be used 
in the same way. 

Jam Sandwiches 

Mix the yolks of 2 eggs very smoothly with a 
tablespoonful of flour and a tablespoonful of 
ground rice; add a very small pinch of salt, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, half a pint of thick 
cream, and a quarter of a pint of new milk. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, add 
them last of all, and beat the mixture for four 
or five minutes. Butter 2 large plates, put in 
the mixture, and bake in a quick oven until it 
is set and lightly browned. Spread a little jam 
over one of the cakes and lay the other upon it, 
the browned part uppermost. Sift a little 
sugar over it before serving. Jam sandwiches 
may be eaten either hot or cold. Time, twenty 
minutes to bake. 

Supper Sandwiches 

Get half a pound of cold bojled ham or 
tongue ; chop it fine, and put it into a basin with 
a tablespoonful of chopped pickles, a teaspoon- 



BREAD AND CAKES 805 

ful of mustard, and a little pep,per. Put about 
6 ounces of butter in a basin, and stil it quickly 
witb a spoon till it forms a kind of cream ; add 
the chopped meat and seasoning, and mix all 
thoroughly. Cut some bread into thin slices, 
and some very thin slices of veal, fowl, or 
game; spread a slice of the bread with the 
above mixture, then a slice of the meat ; lay on 
another slice of bread, and so on, till the quan- 
tity required is prepared. If cut into small 
shapes, these sandwiches prove very acceptable 
for breakfast or for evening parties. The 
above quantities will make as many sandwiches 
as will fill a moderate-sized dish. 

Italian Sandwiches 

Beat up the yolk of an egg with nearly a 
quarter of a pint of cold water, and make with 
it into a stiff paste a quarter of a pound of 
flour, into which 2 ounces of good butter have 
been rubbed, 1% ounces of sifted sugar, and a 
little ciimamon. Put this paste on a board and 
roll it out very thin (it should not be quite a 
quarter of an inch thick), divide it into strips 
an inch in width, and from 3 to 4 inches in 
length. These strips must be first hardened. 
Put them in a cool, well-ventDated place. In 
the meantime prepare the following mixture: 
Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a, froth, with 2 



806 BREAD AND CAKES 

ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Blanch and 
pound 2 ounces of sweet and 12 bitter almonds, 
mix them with the egg-froth until it is a soft, 
smooth paste, when spread half the strips of 
paste with the mixture, and cover with the other 
half. Bake a pale brown. Time, eighteen 
minutes to bake. 

Irish Sandwiches 

Cut the meat in very thin slices from par- 
tridges, grouse, or any game that has been 
roasted, and shred some celery. Lay the meat 
on delicately thin, fresh toast — it should be 
crisp, and not tough; strew celery over and 
season well with tartare sauce. Serve in 
squares, and on a napkin. 

Brunette or Brown Cheese Sandwiches 

Take brown bread loaf; spread over the end, 
after cutting off the crust, with soft, lightly 
salted, creamed butter; then a layer of cream 
Neufchatel, or cottage cheese. Then slice about 
1/4 inch thick. Butter the end as before. Use 
crisp, carefully washed lettuce that has been 
shaken dry. Dip a leaf into French dressing; 
place it upon the cheese, to which a 3easoning 
of red or black pepper is always an addition. 
Then cut the next slice very thin ; press it gently 
upon the lettuce. By pressing the palm on the 
upper plice the two will be made to adhere. 



BREAD AND CAKES 807 



White or rye bread cheese sandwiches can be 
made as the above, also pumpernickel. 

Anchovy Sandwiches 

Wash 6 or 8 anchovies, cut off' their heads 
and fins, take out the backbones, and divide each 
fish in two, from the shoulder to the tail. Cut 
an equal number of thin slices of brown bread 
and butter ; put between 2 slices alternate layers 
of hard-boiled eggs, mustard and cress cut 
small, and the fillets of the anchovies ; press the 
slices closely together, and with a sharp knife 
cut them into neat squares. Place them on a 
dish covered with a napkin, and garnish with 
parsley. If not wanted immediately, cover 
them with a napkin wrung out of cold water to 
keep them moist. 



BATTER CAKES 

Fritters (Batters) 

The proportions for batter for fritters are: 
% cupful of milk; yolk of 1 egg; 1 cup of lightly 
sifted flour; 1 saltspoonful of salt; % table- 
spoonful of melted butter; the white of 1 egg 
beaten stiffly, and added just before using, beat- 
ing it in vigorously. 

For meat, oysters, clams, or tripe add 1 table- 
spoonful of lemon juice with the white of the 



808 BREAD AND CAKES 



egg, and for clam or oyster fritters the strained 
liquor is substituted for milk. 

For fruit fritters add a teaspoonful of sugar 
with the yolk of the egg. In all cases the batter 
should be just stiff enough to drop quickly from 
the spoon. 

C«am Fritters (Whole Clams) 

Steam the clams until tender, dust them with 
salt and pepper, dip into the batter, and fry in 
deep, hot fat until a delicate brown. Drain on 
brown paper in a hot oven, and serve as hot 
and as soon as possible. 

Clam Fritters (Chopped Clams) 

Chop the clams, first cutting off the black 
beard with scissors ; season with salt and pep- 
per and a few drops of lemon juice, mix them 
into the batter, and drop by spoonfuls into hot 
fat and fry until nicely browned, or drop them 
on a well-buttered griddle and saute, turning as 
soon as the under side is browned, adding a 
little butter, if necessary, when turning them. 

Oyster Fritters 

Oyster fritters are made in the same way 
as clams, from either whole or chopped oysters ; 
but in using the oysters whole it is not neces- 
sary to cook them first, they will cook siiflfi' 
cieutly in the hot fat while browning. 



BREAD AND CAKES 809 

Fish and Meat Fritters 

Cold salmon or any nice fish, or slices of cold 
lamb, veal, mutton, or chicken, may be made 
into fritters, cutting the slices in long, narrow 
pieces, just right to take up iu the spoon with 
the batter, and any of these are good to fall 
back upon for a hasty emergency. Season the 
slices with salt and pepper before dipping them 
in the batter. 

■ Any bits of left-over meat may be made into 
force-meat balls and used as fritters. Several 
kinds may be mixed together and well-seasoned, 
adding the yolk of an egg to bind them to- 
gether. 

Apple Fritters 

Pare and core 4 medium-sized apples. -They 
should be tart and firm, not mealy. Slice them 
across half an inch thick, taking care not to 
break the slices. Sprinkle them with powdered 
sugar and a few drops of lemon juice, if the 
apples are not tart. Add a grating of nutmeg 
or other spice if liked. Dip each slice into the 
batter and fry in hot fat. When the first are 
done, lay them on brown paper in a hot oven to 
drain while the next are being fried. 

Apricot Fritters 

Canned or dried apricots can be used. If 
dried, soak overnight or thirty-six hours in as 
52 



8J0 BREAD AND CAKES 



mucli water as they will absorb. Drain them, 

whether dried or canned, and put the juice ia a 

saucepan, with sugar enough to make a rich 

syrup, and cook until thick and clear. Dip each 

piece of the apricot in the batter, or take two 

pieces in the spoon with the batter and drop 

into boiling fat and fry until a golden brown. 

Draia, and serve with the syrup passed with 

them. 

Banana Fritters 

Peel the bananas, slice, lengthwise through 
the middle, and, if large, divide once in length. 
Ijet the pieces lie for half an hour in lemon 
juice, then dip each one in the batter, and fry' 
until a delicate brown. Drain, dust with pow- 
dered sugar, and serve as soon as possible. 

Orange Fritters 

Peel seedless oranges, taking off aU the whixe 
fibre possible. Slice them across in one-third- 
inch slices, dust with powdered sugar, dip in 
batter, and fry a rich brown. Drain, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, and serve. 

Pineapple Fritters 

Peel and slice a fresh pineapple, cut into thin 
slices, and, if very large, cut the slices into 
narrow, oblong pieces, dip in the batter, and 
fry. 

Or drain the liquor from a can of chopped 



BREAD AND CAKES 81 J 



pineapple ; cook the liquor with sufficient sugar 
to make a rich syrup. Mix the pineapple into 
the batter and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat 
or on a well-buttered hot griddle. Fry until a 
rich brown, and serve the syrup hot with them. 

Peach Fritters 

Peel and quarter nice, ripe, but firm ppaches, 
dust with powdered sugar, dip in batter, and 
fry as any fruit fritters. 

Corn Fritters 

Cut tender corn from the cob, stir it into the 
batter, and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat; or 
cook until nicely browned on both sides on a 
hot griddle in butter, or half butter and half 
clarified drippings. 

Vegetable Fritters 

Celery, oyster-plant or salsify, parsnip, or 
egg-plant should be cut into small pieces and 
stewed until tender, then seasoned with salt 
and pepper, then stirred into the batter and 
fried the same as other fritters, always remem- 
bering to drain them from any superfluous fat 
before sending them to the table. 

Puffball Fritters 

An English Recipe 
Eemove the outer skin from the puffball and 
cut in half -inch slices.. Have ready some 



512 BREAD AND CAKES 

chopped sweet terbs and the beaten yolk of 
egg. Dip the slices of pnffball in the egg, 
sprinkle them with the herbs and salt and pep- 
per; then roll in fine bread crumbs, and fry a 
nice brown in fresh butter or nice drippings. 
S^rve at once on a hot platter, garjaished with 
sprigs of cress. - 

Corn Balls 

Score and scrape from the cob enough young 
green corn to make 1 pint. Add to this 4 well- 
beaten eggs, a cup of- milk, a level teaspoonful 
of salt, and a little white pepper. Beat thor- 
oughly together and add half a aupful of flour 
into which has been sifted a teaspoonful of 
baking-powder, beating all w^U again. Butter 
small cups, fill them three-quarters full of the 
naixture, set in a steamerj and steam half an 
hour. -Or set the cups in a pan with water 
nearly to the tops^. and bake the same length of 
time in a hot oven. Serve with roast beef, 
fried ham, or other hot meats. 

Rice Waffles 

Stir 1 cupful boiled rice into 1 pint of sweet 
milk; add 2 well-beaten eggs. Sift together 1 
small cupful of flour, 1 teaspoonful each of salt 
and baking-powder, melt a tablespoonf ul of but- 
ter. Add gradually to the first mixtiar©, stirring 
together. Bake in hot greased waffle irons. 



BREAD AND CAKES 8J3 



GRIDDLE CAKES, ETC. 

The griddle cake to-day is another article of 
food which has taken high rank upon the Ameri- 
can tahle. The properly made griddle cake is 
a delicious food, healthful, appetizing, and nu- 
tritious. 

The batter must be thin, the cakes made small 
and not too thick,^ — about a good eighth of an 
inch thick when baked, — ^browned, and neatly 
turned. The griddle mus^. be merely rubbed 
with grease, not grease-soaked. This is highly 
important. Take a thick pieqe of salt pork on 
a fork, or a lump of suet in a piece of cheese-- 
cloth, and rub lightly over the hot griddle and 
pour the batter on immediately. 

Remember that buckwheat is one of the most 
difficult flours to lighten. Where it enters into 
combination with other materials this fact must 
be recognized and a somewhat larger propor- 
tion of baking-powder allowed. Made in the 
manner directed in these recipes, buckwheat 
cakes can be safely and profusely eaten by 
every one. 

Wheat Cakes 

This is the best plain hot griddle cake with- 
out eggs. The cakes will be light, tender, and 
healthful. 1 quart flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, % teaspoonful salt. Sift well to- 



8J4 BREAD AND CAKES 

gether and add sweet milk to make into a soft 

batter. Bake immediately on hot griddle. 

Should be full one-eighth of an inch thick when 

baked. Smother with butter and maple syrup 

or honey. 

Griddle Cakes with Eggs 

3 cupfuls flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 

1 teaspoonful salt. Mix well together, add 2 
well-beaten eggs, and sufficient sweet milk to 
make a thin drop batter. Bake at once on a 
hot, well-greased griddle. Make them thin, 

Graham Griddle Cakes 

1 pint Grahaih flour, % pint Indian corn 
meal, % pint flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful 
brown sugar, % teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspodn- 
fuls baking-powder, 1 egg, % piiit each of milk 
and water. Sift together Graham flour, corn 
meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder. Add 
beaten egg, milk, and water. Mix together into 
a smooth batter. Heat griddle hot, pour batter 
into cakes as large as a tea saucer. Bake 
brown on one side, carefully turn and brown 
other side. Pile one on the other; serve very 
hot, with sugar, milk, cream, or maple syrup. 

Rye Griddle Cakes 

1 pint rye flour, 1/2 pi^it Graham flour, 1^ pint 
flour, 1 tablespoonful sugar, V2 teaspoonful salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 1 egg, 1 pint 



BREAD AND CAKES 8J5 



milk. Sift together rye flour, Grraham flour, 
sugar, salt, and baking-powder ; add beaten egg 
and milk; mix into smooth batter. Bake deep 
brown color on hot griddle. 

Geneva Griddle Cakes 

11/^ pints flour, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1/2 
teaspoonful salt, 1% teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 
der, 2 tablespoonfiils butter, 4 eggs, nearly y2 
pint milk. Rub butter and sugar to white, light 
cream; add yolks of eggs, one at a time. Sift 
flour, salt, and powder together ; add to butter, 
etc., with milk and egg whites whipped to dry 
froth; mix together into a smooth batter. Bake 
in small cakes; as soon as brown, turn, and 
brown the other side. Have buttered baking- 
tin ; fast as browned, lay them on it, and spread 
raspberry jam over them; then bake more, 
which lay on others already done. Repeat this 
until you have used jam twice, then bake an- 
other batch, which use to cover them. Sift 
sugar plentifully over them, place in a mod- 
erate oven to finish cooking. 

Huckleberry Griddle Cakes 

% pint huckleberries, 1% pints flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful brown sugar, 2 
teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 2 eggs, 1 pint 
milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and pow- 
der; add beaten eggs, milk, and huckleberries 



8J6 BREAD AND CAKES 

(washed and picked over). Mix into batter 
that will run from pitcher in thick, continuous 
stream. Have griddle hot enough to form 
crust as soon as batter touches it. In order to 
confine juice of berries, turn quickly, so as to 
form crust on other side; turn once more on 
each side to complete baking. Blackberry or 
raspberry griddle cakes in same manner. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

2 cupfuls cold boiled rice, 1 pint flour, 1 tea^ 
spoonful sugar, y^ teaspoonful salt, 1% tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder, 1 egg, little more 
than % pint milk. Sift together flour, sugar, 
salt, and powder; add rice free from lumps, 
diluted with beaten egg and milk; mix into 
smooth batter. Have griddle well heated ; bake 
nice brown, not too thick; serve with maple 
syrup, 

Corn-Meal Griddle Cakes 

2 cupfuls corn meal, 1 cupful flour, % tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful molasses, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder, milk or milk and 
water to mix to thin batter. Bake as already 
directed. , 

Indian Griddle Cakes 

Vg qiiart corn meal, V3 quart flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful brown sugar, % teaspoonful salt, 2 
heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 2 eggs, 1 



BREAD AND CAKES 8J7 

pint milk. Sift together corn meal, flour, salt, 
sugar, and powder ; add beaten eggs and milk ; 
mix into a smooth batter. Bake on very hot 
griddle to a nice brown. Serve with molasses 
or maple syrup. 

Buckwheat Cakes 

To 1% pints pure buckwheat flour (never 
use prepared or self-raising flour) add % pint 
each wheat flour and Indian meal, 3 heaping 
teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 tablespoonful brown sugar or molasses. Sift 
well together, in dry state, buckwheat, Indian 
meal, wheat flour, and baking-powder, then add 
remaiiider ; when ready to bake add 1 pint water 
or sufficient to form smooth batter that will 
run in a stream (not too thin) from pitcher;" 
make griddle hot and cakes as large as a 
saucer. ' When surface is covered with air- 
holes it is time to turn cakes over ; take off when 
sufficiently browned. 

Flannel Cakes 

1% pints flour, 1 tablespoonful brown sugar, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing-powder, 2 eggs, 1% pints milk. Sift to- 
gether flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add 
beaten eggs and milk; mix into smooth batter 
that will run in rather continuous stream from 
pitcher. Bake on good hot griddle rich brown 



8J8 BREAD AND CAKES 

color, in cakes large as tea saucers. Serve with 
maple syrup. 

Hominy Griddle Cakes 

Proceed as directed for rice griddle cakes; 
serve with maple syrup. 

Pancakes 

1 pint flour, 4 eggs, 1 saltspoonful salt, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking-powder, and milk to make a 
thin batter. Add the baking-powder to the 
flour, beat the whites and yolks of eggs sepa- 
rately; add the yolks, salt, 2 cupfuls milk, then 
the whites and the flour alternately with milk, 
untU the batter is of right consistency. Eun i 
teaspoonful lard over the bottom of a hot fry- 
ing-pan, pour in a large ladleful of batter, and 
fry quickly. Boll pancake up like a sheet of 
paper, lay upon a hot dish, put in more lard, 
and fry another panca,ke. Keep hot over boil- 
ing water. Send % dozen to table at a time. 
Serve with sauce, jelly, or preserves. 

English Pancakes 

1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 
cupful flour, 1 cupful cream, pinch salt. Sift 
flour and salt together. 

Then add to this the eggs beaten with 
sugar and diluted with milk and cream ; mix 
into thin batter. Have small, round frying- 



BREAD AND CAKES 819 

, ( 

pan ; melt little butter in it ; pour about % cup- 
ful batter in it, turn pan round, that batter may 
cover the pan, put on hot fire ; turn it and brown 
other side. Butter each and roll it up ; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. 

Plain Pancakes 

Whisk 2 eggs thoroughly, and pour them into 
a bowl containing 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Beat the mixture until it is smooth and quite 
free from lumps, then add a pinch of salt and 
two-thirds of a pint of new milk. Let the bat- 
ter stand in a cool place for an hour or two, 
then fry the pancakes according to the direc- 
tions given above; half an ounce of dripping 
will be required for each pancake. Time, three 
minutes to fry one pancake. Sufficient for 
three or four persons. 

Pancakes a la Cr&me 

Eub the rind of half a small fresh lemon with 

3 or 4 large lumps of sugar until the yellow 
part is all taken off, then crush the sugar to 
powder, and mix with it a pinch of powdered 
cinnamon, a small pinch of salt and an ounce 
of dried flour. Make this into a smooth paste 
with a little cold milk and an ounce of clarified 
butter; then stir in very gradually half a pint 
of thick cream and the well-whisked yolks of 

4 and the whites of 2 eggs. Melt a quarter of 



820 BREAD AND CAKES 

an ounce of butter in a small frying-pan, fry 
the pancakes very quickly, and serve them as 
hot as possible. They should be very thin; a 
second supply of butter will not be required for 
frying. Time, three or foui" minutes to fry 
each pancake. Sufficient for four or five per- 
sons. 

French Pancakes 

Make a batter by beating up together 3 
tableapoonfuls of potato or corn starch, 5 
raw eggs, some powdered loaf sugar, and a 
little water. Add enough milk to make it of 
the consistency of porridge. Butter well the 
inside of a frying-pan, and place it over a mod- 
erate fire. When it is sufficiently hot, pour in 
a large spoonful of the batter, and shake the 
pan so as to spread it over the whole of its sur- 
face. When the pancake is done enough, throw 
it on a dish, and sprinkle its surface with 
crushed loaf sugar, or cover it with jelly. Fold 
into rolls. 

Cream Pancakes 

Whisk thoroughly the yolks of 3 and the 
whites of 2 eggs. Add a small cupful of thick 
cream, a little sugar, and sufficient flour to 
make a good batter. Put with it a pieoe of but- 
ter about the size of an egg. Fry in the usual 
way. This and all other batters are better 



BREAD AND CAKES 821 

made two or three hours before they are used. 
Time to fry, five or six minutes. 

Pancakes without Eggs 

Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour with a small 
pinch of salt, 2 or 3 grates of nutmeg, and a 
dessertspoonful of moist sugar. Make a 
smooth batter, by mixing with the flour, etc., 
very gradually, half a pint of milk, and beat 
it fully ten minutes, adding a tablespoonful of 
melted butter. Fry the pancakes in the usual 
way, and serve them with maple syrup or pow- 
dered sugar sprinkled between them. Time, 
three minutes to fry each pancake. 

Snow Pancakes 

Freshly fallen snow may be used instead of 
eggs in making batter for pancakes. Care 
must of course be taken that the snow is as 
pure as possible. The batter should be made 
rather thick, and the snow mixed with each pan- 
cake just before it is put into the pan. As a 
general rule, it may be calculated that 2 table- 
spoonfuls of snow will be equal to 1 egg. 

German Pancakes 

Thoroughly mix 6 ounces of flour with 1 
ounce of melted butter, the yolk of an egg, and 
2 tablespoonfuls of water. Add a pinch of 
salt, and, very gradually, a quarter of a pint 



822 BREAD AND CAKES 



of milk or cream. Beat tli9 ingredients with a 
wooden spoon till they are smoothly blended. 
This batter is better for being made two or 
three hours before it is wanted. Just before 
using add the white of an egg, beaten to a solid 
froth. 

Have omelet-pan hot into which has been put 
some beef drippings or butter. Pour in the 
batter so that the pancakes will be one-eighth 
of an inch thick. Tilt the pan as the batter 
runs up the edge of pan, as it is settling. When 
cooked at bottom, stick pan into a hot oven so 
that it will be done on top. Slide out of pan; 
serve with lemon cut in quarters and powdered 
sugar, or apple sauce. 

Popovers 

Mix saltspoonful salt with 1 cupful of flour; 
add slowly cupful of milk. Beat 1 egg light 
(yolk and white separately) and fold into the 
batter. Butter gem-pans and fill with batter 
two-thirds full. Bake fifteen minutes in hot 
oven. 

Johnny Cake 

1 egg, 1 cupful of buttermilk or sour milk, 1 
tablespoonful of shortening, 1 level teaspoonful 
of soda, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 2 cupfuls of corn 
meal, 1 cupful of flour, 1/2 cupful of sugar. 
Bake twenty minutes to half an hour. 



BREAD AND CAKES 823 



Hoe Cake 

Moisten fresh Indian meal with cold water 
and add a little salt; knead your doiigh well to 
make it light. Bake on a griddle over a mod- 
erate fire, turning it often till well browned on 
both sides. 

Corn Cake 

1 6gg> % cupful sugar, butter size of an egg, 
1 cupful sweet milk, a pinch of salt, 1 cupful of 
corn meal, 1 cupful of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder. Bake half an hour. 

Southern Corn Pone 

1 teacupful of cooked hominy — the smaller- 
sized kind. While it is hot stir in 1 table- 
spoonful of melted butter and 2 eggs beaten 
very light; stir in i/^ pint of sweet milk very 
gradually, then yellow corn meal enough to 
make a batter as thick as boiled custard. Add 
1% teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and less 
than teaspoonful of salt. Bake in a hot oven 
three-quarters of an hour in a pudding-dish. 

Shortcake 

1 quart flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 heaping 
teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter, 1 pint milk. Sift the flour, salt, and 
powder together, rub in the butter cold; add 
the milk and mix into a smooth dough, just soft 
enough to handle; divide in half, and roll out 



824 BREAD AND CAKES 

to the size of breakfast-plates ; lay on a greased 
baking-tin and bake in hot oven twenty min- 
utes; separate the cakes without cutting, as 
cutting makes them heavy. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Pick, hull, wash, and drain berries. Sweeten, 
spread between bottom layers of short cake. 
Garnish top layer with large whole berries, dust 
with sugar, and serve with cream or custard. 

Raspberry Shortcake 

Prepare as for strawberry shortcake. 

Cherry Shortcake 

Make as for strawberry shortcake, usilig 
pitted sweet or tart cherries. 

Peach Shortcake 

Pare and slice peaches. Finish as for straw- 
berry shortcake. " 

Banana Shortcake 

Peel and slice bananas. Finish as for straw- 
berry shortcake. 

Huckleberry Shortcake 

2 cupfuls sugar, 1/2 cupful butter, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 1 pint milk, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls 
baking-powder sifted into 3 cupfuls jSour, 1 
quart washed and well-drained huckleberries, 
more flour to make a very thick batter. Bake 



BREAD AND CAKES 825 

in greased dripping-pan, break in squares, serve 
hot with butter. 

Angel Food 

1% cupfuls of granulated sugar, 1 level cup- 
ful of lour, whites of 11 eggs, 1 level teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and a pinch of salt. Spread 2 square papers 
on your table and place your sieve upon one 
of them. Have ready some sifted flour and put 
1 level cupful in your sieve; to this add the 
sugar, cream of tartar, and salt, and sift 
through upon the paper. Place the empty 
sieve upon the other paper, pour the mixture 
into it, and so sift back and forth from one 
paper to the other five or six times. Then|kbeat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff ff Qth ; pour the 
flour mixture into it from the paper, gradually 
but quickly, stirring lightly just enough to 
moisten all the flour ; a few strokes will suffice, 
then turn at once into an ungreased tin witb a 
tube in it, and bake about forty-five minutes. 
Success depends largely upon the baking. "A 
slow, gradual heat is best, but only care and 
practice will make perfect. 
Frosting 

Beat light the whites of 2 eggs, 1 cupful of 
confectioner's sugar; beat till stiff enough, for 
half an hour or more ; flavor, and spread on the 
cool cake, 
53 



826 BREAD AND CAKES 

Almond Cake 

y^ cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 4 eggs, % 
cupful almonds blanched (by pouring water on 
them until skins easily slip off) and cut in fine 
shreds, % teaspoonful extract bitter almonds, 

1 pint flour, 1% teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 1 
glass brandy, % cupful milk. Eub butter and 
sugar to smooth, white cream; add eggs, one at 
a time, beating three or four minutes after each. 
Sift flour and powder together, add to butter, 
etc., with almonds, extract of bitter almonds, 
brandy, and milk; mix into smooth, medium 
batter ; bake carefully in rather hot oven twenty 
minutes in a fluted mould. 

* Bride's Cake 

1 scant cupful butter, 3 cupfuls sugar, 1 cup- 
ful milk, whites 12 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, 1 cupful corn starch, 3 cupfuls flour, 
1/4 teaspoonful salt. Cream butter and sugar. 
Mix flour, baking-powder, and corn starch, and 
add alternately with milk and whipped whites. 
Flavor with vanilla or almond extract, and 
bake in loaf-tin lined with 4 thicknesses of 
paper; have oven moderate. 

Mocha Cake 

1 cupful very strong coffee, 1 cupful butter, 

2 cupfuls sugar, 3 eggs, 11/2 pints flour, 11/2 
teaspopnfuls baking-powder, 1 cupful stoned 



BREAD AND CAKES 827 



raisins, cut in two, % cupful chopped citron, 
10 drops each extract allspice and nutmeg, and 
% cupful milk. Rub the butter and sugar to 
a white cream ; add the eggs, 1 at a time, beat- 
ing three or four minutes after each. Sift 
together flour and powder, which add to the but- 
ter, etc., with the coffee, raisins, citron, milk, 
and extracts. Mix into a smooth batter. 

Cocoanut Layer Cake 

V2 cupful butter, 1% cupfuls sugar, whites 8 
eggs, 2% cupfuls flour, % teaspoonful salt, 1 
teaspoonful baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful va- 
nilla. Mix flour, salt, and baking-powder. 
Cream butter and sugar. Add vanilla; then, 
alternately, the flour and whipped whites. Beat 
hard; bake in 3 layer-cake pans. When cold 
put together with cocoanut filling. 

Sunshine Cakes 

Whites of 7 eggs ; yolks of 5 ; 1 cupful of fine 
granulated sugar ; 1 scant cupful of flour, meas- 
ured after sifting five times ; 14 teaspoonful of 
ci-eam of tartar; 1 teaspoonful of orange ex- 
tract. Beat yolks till thick, and set aside. Now 
add a pinch of salt and the crearri of tartar to 
the whites, and beat till very stiff; add sugar, 
beat thoroughly, then add flavoring and beaten 
yolks; beat lightly and carefully; stir in the 
flour. Bake in tube pan, in moderate oven, 



828 BREAD AND CAKES 

forty to fifty minutes. Invert tHe pan to 
cool. 

Cakes for Musicale 

Cream % cupful butter, add % cupful sugar; 
beat to a cream; add % cupful sweet cream, 
2 cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, 
1 teaspoonful vanilla, beaten yolks of 4 eggs, 
% cupful cocoanut, stiffly beaten whites, grated 
rind of half an prange. Bake in loaf; dee — 
bars, notes, etc., of chocolate icing, coated pel- 
lets, and citron. 

Chocolate Cream Cake 

% cupful of butter, 2 cupfuls of sugar, 1 cup- 
ful of water, 3 cupfuls of sifted flour, 3 level 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla, whites of 4 eggs. Cream the butter, 
add the sugar gradually, continuing the cream- 
ing; then add the water and flour, a little at a 
time ; having the baking-powder sifted with the 
flour, continue stirring until the water and flour 
are all used. Now add the vanilla and well- 
beaten whites of the eggs, stir just enough to 
mix, and pour into 3 large or 4 small layer-cake 
pans, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. 

Filling 
White of 1 egg, % teaspoonful of vanilla, Yz 
tablespoonful of cold water; add sugar until 



BREAD AND CAKES 829 

thick enough to spread. Spread on top of each 
layer; melt a quarter of a cake of chocolate 
over steam and spread on top of white frosting 
on each layer, after the white frosting has be- 
come hard.^ 

Plain Layer Cake 

1 cupful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
1 egg, 1 cupful of milk, 2 cupfuls of flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla.. Mix like chocolate cream cake. 
Devil's Cake 

1 cupful dark-brown sugar, % cupful butter, 
V^ cupful sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 2 cup- 
fuls flour, 2 eggs. Mix well. 1 cupful ch-oc- 
olate, 1/2 cupfiil milk, 7s cupful dark-brown 
sugar, yolk of 1 egg. Put in pan and boil 
slightly, then mix all together. Bake in layers 
and put together with white icing. 

Violette 

Cover flat side of lady fingers with white fon- 
dant, on which place candied violets, with dark 
citron stems; dip edges in candy syrup; ar- 
range in cups; unmould and fill with whipped 
cream, flavored, tinted violet, sweetened; gar- 
nish. 

Silver Cake 

1 cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 1/2 cupful 
sweet milk, whites of 8 eggs, 1 teaspoonful 



830 BREAD AND CAKES 

cream of tartar, | teaspoon! ul of soda, 2| cup- 
fuls flo.ur. Mix like Bride's cake. 
Snow Cake 
% cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful of 
milk, 1 cupful of corn starch, 2 cupfuls flour, 2 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Mix flour, 
corn starch, and baking-powder together; stir 
butter and sugar to a cream, add milk, then 
flour ; last add whites of 7 eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake one hour. 

English Walnut Cake 

2 cupfuls sugar, % cupful butter, % cupful 
milk, 3 cupfuls flour, 5 eggs, 3 even teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder. Bake in layers and put 
icing between. Ice the top and put halves of 
English walnuts on white frosting. If desired, 
put nuts between the layers also. Use 1 pound 
nuts or more. 

Hickory-Nut Cake 

2 cupfuls sugar, 1 of milk, 3 cupfuls flour, I 
cupful butter, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, 1 cupful nut-kernels, cut fine. Tried 
and not found wanting. 

Cake for Card Party 

1 cupful molasses ; 1 whole egg ; yolk of extra 
one; 4 tablespoonfuls butter; i/^ cupful sour 
milk; 1 level teaspoonful soda in milk; 2 cup- 
fuls flour ; pinch salt. EoU out with flour, bake 



iJREAD AND CAKES 83J 

qliickly, ice with boiled icing, to whicli add 1 
teaspoonful cinnamon; figures wMch represent 
the different suits of cards, cut from citron and 
candied cherries, are placed while the icing is 
soft. 

Caramel Cake 
% cupful of butter, 11/2 cupfuls of sugar, 1/2 
cupful whites of eggs, 1 cupful cold water, 3 cup- 
fuls of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
Cream butter and half sugar, beat whites of 
eggs, and then add rest of sugar and beat stiff. 
Then put two together, add flour and water al- 
ternately. Bake in shallow pan to cut in 

squares. 

Frosting 
1 pound brown sugar, enough water to dis- 
solve; boil to a thread; butter size of an egg, 
teaspoonful vanilla. Beat after cooked. 

Marbled Cake 

Light Part. — V3 cupful sugar, Va cupful of 
butter, V3 cupful sweet milk, V3 teaspoonful 
soda, Va teaspoonful cream tartar, 2 whites of 
eggs, I'/a cups of flour. Stir butter and sugar 
to a cream, add milk, soda, and flout with cream 
tartar, and lastly stir in the eggs; flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 

Dark Part.—^/^ cupful brown sugar, Vs cup- 
ful molasses, Vs cupful butter; stir well and 



832 BREAD AND CAKES 

add Va cupful sour milk, '/a teaspoonful soda, 
IV3 cupfuls flour, and yolks of 2 eggs well 
beaten, or quite as well put in at the first; 
season with cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, | 
teaspoonful each. 

Drop by spoonfuls alternately, and bake as 
a loaf half to three-quarters of an hour, or bake 
in layers, putting the browh part between the 
white layers with jelly or other good filling. 

Fruit Cake 

1 pound granulated sugar, % pound butter, 
1 pound flour, 8 eggs, 2 pounds raisins, 2 pounds 
currants, 14 pound candied orange peel, i/i 
pound candied lemon peel, V2 pound citron, 

1 heaping tablespoonful cinnamon, % teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, 1 nutmeg, 3 teaspoonfuls soda, 

2 tablespoonfuls grape juice, cream, butter, and 
sugar ; add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, spices, 
then sifted flour, reserving enough to mix with 
fruit, then soda mixed in grape juice ; then add 
whites, after beating very stiff, and last the 
fruit. Put buttered paper on tin. Bake ia & 
moderate oven three hours. 

Excellent Wedding Cake 

A wedding-cake is an expensive article to 
purchase, and if it is not wanted very large, 
may be made at home without much difficulty, 
and with a great saving of expense. It will im- 



BREAD AND CAKES 833 

prove -with keeping — indeed, confectioners do 
not use their cakes until they have been made 
some months; and if a cake is cut into soon 
after it is made it will crumble. To make a 
wedding cake, first procure the following in- 
gredients: 1% pounds of flour, li/^ pounds 
of butter, % pound of candied lemon, % 
pound of candied orange, % pound of candied 
citron, 1 pound of dried cherries, 1% pounds 
of dried currants (if the cherries cannbt easily 
be procured, they may be omitted, and 2% 
pounds of currants used instead), 8 ounces of 
almonds, 8 eggs, the rind of 4 oranges or of 
2 lemons rubbed upon sugar, half an ounce of 
spices, consisting of powdered cinnamon, grated 
nutmeg, and powdered cloves in equal propor- 
tions, a teaspoonful of salt, and a small tum- 
blerful of brandy. If objected to, the brandy 
may be omitted, and another egg may be added. 
Wash, pick, and dry the currants, cut the cher- 
ries into moderate-sized pieces, slice the can- 
died peel into thin shreds, blanch and pound the 
almonds, or cut them into very small pieces, 
and crush the flavored sugar to powder. Put 
the butter into a large bowl and beat it to cream, 
either with a wooden spoon or with the hand. 
Add very gradually the sugar, flour, and eggs, 
and when they are thoroughly mixed work in 
the rest of the ingredients. Put them in, a 



834 BREAD AND CAKES 

little at a time, and beat the cake between every 
addition. It should be beaten fully three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Line mould with double folds 
of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, put it 
in a moderately heated over. Put paper under 
the mould above the cake, to keep it from 
burning, and keep the oven at an even tempera- 
ture until it is done enough. If the cake is to 
be iced, first prepare the ahnond part: Take 
half a poimd of almonds, throw them into boil- 
ing water, and skin them. Pound them in a 
mortar with a few drops of orange-flower 
water, 1 pound of fine white sugar, and as much 
white of egg as will make a soft, stiff paste. 
Spread this over the top of the cake, and keep 
it from the edge as much as possible. Put it 
in a cool oven, or in a warm place, till it is dry 
and ha,rd. To make the ' sugar icing, put 2 
pounds of icing sugar into a bowl and work into 
it the whites of 2, or' if necessary, 3, or even 4 
eggs. The whites must not be whisked, but 
thrown in as they are. Work the mixture to 
a stiff, shiny paste, and whilst working it add 
occasionally a drop of lemon juice. Be care- 
ful to obtain icing sugar. If a drop of liquid 
blue is added, it will make it look whiter. The 
icing will need to be worked vigorously to make 
a paste which will not run, and the fewer eggs 
taken the better. The cake ought not to be iced 



BREAD AND CAKES 835 



until a short time before it is wanted, as it may 
get dirty. The icing should be spread evenly 
over with hands wetted with cold water, then 
smoothed with an ivory knife, and it should 
be put in a gentle oven to harden. It may be 
ornamented with little knobs of icing placed 
around the edge ; and on the day of the wedding 
a wreath of white flowers and green leaves may 
be placed round it by way of ornament. If any- 
thing more elaborate is required, a pretty 
centre ornament may be added. Time to bake 
the cake, about six hours. 

Huckleberry Cake 

1 pint of berries, 1 cupful of sugar. Rub into 
the sugar 2 rounding tablespoonfuls of soft 
butter, 1 cupful of milk, 2 cupfuls of flour, with 
2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder sifted 
into the flour, a very little salt, and nutmeg. 
Add another cupful of flour to the berries and 
stir in last. Serve warm as dessert or tea 
(lake, with sugar and butter. 

Cream Cake 

% cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 1% pints 
flour, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, 1 
cupful milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a 
white, light cream. Add the eggs, two at a 
time, beating five minutes after each addition. 
Sift the flour with the powder, which add to the 



836 BREAD AND CAKES 

butter, etc., and tlie milk. Mix into rather thin 
batter, and bake in jelly-cake tins, well greased, 
in hot oven fifteen minutes. Wlien cold spread 
pastry cream between the layers, and ice the 
top with clear icing. 

Gold Cake 

% cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, yolks 10 
eggs, 1% pints flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, 1 cupful thia cream, 1 teaspoonful each 
extract lemon and nutmeg. Rub the butter and 
sugar to a white cream; add the yolks, three at 
a time, beating a little after each addition ; add 
the flour sifted with the powder, the thin cream, 
and the extracts ; mix into a pretty firm batter ; 
bake in a pape^lined cake-tin, in a steady oven, 
fifty minutes. 

Electric Cake 

Sift 1 pound of flour in bowl ; add 1% cupfuls 
yeast (li/4 cakes of compressed yeast), a table- 
spoonful of molasses, and % cupful of warm 
water. Add these to the flour, working into a 
dough. Let rise three hours. Cream 1 pound 
of butter with 1 pound pulverized sugar: add 
1/^ cupful milk. Beat 7 eggs light; add these 
to batter ; sugar ; mix alternately with ^' of a 
pound of flour. Beat light, then add 1 tea- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, y^ teaspoonful 
of ground mace, and half nutmeg, grated. 



BREAD AND CAKES 837 

When the dough is light add it to the oake 
batter ; turn into a greased tin. Bake one hour 
in moderate oven. 

Fortune Cake 

Cream I14 cupfuls sugar and % cupful but- 
ter ; add juice and rind of half a lemon ; sift in 
2 oupfuls of flour, into which has been mixed 
1/4 teaapoonful of baking-soda. Then add the 
stiffly beaten whites of 7 eggs, I/2 cupful candied 
citron, % cupful blanched almonds. Mix the 
batter well, and last, add a ring, a dime,^ a 
thimble, and a heart. 

Jelly Cake 

Beat 3 eggs well, whites and yolks separately ; 
take a oupfnl of fine white sugar and beat in 
well with yolks, and 1 cupful sifted flour, stirred 
in gently; then stir in the whites, a little at a 
time, 1 teaspoohful baking-powder, and 1 table- 
spoonful milk ; pour into three jelly-cake plates 
and bake from five to ten minutes in a well- 
heated oven; when cold spread with currant 
jelly, place one layer on top of 'the other, and 
fiiffc powdered sugar on top. 

Lemon Cake 

1 oupM butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 7 eggs, 1^ 
pints flour, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, 1 tea- 
spoonful extract lemon. Eub to a light cream 
the butter and sugar; add tiie eggs, two at a 



838 BREAD AND CAKES 

time, beating five minutes after eack addition; 
add the flour sifted with the powder, and the 
extract; mix into a medium batter; bake in 
paper-lined tin, in a moderate oven, fprty min- 
utes. ' 

Marshmaliow Cake 
1 egg, 11/2 cupfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, 1 cupful milk, 2 cupfuls flour, % teaspoon- 
ful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Mix 
flour, salt, and baking-powder. Cream butter, 
add a quarter of the sugar, and beat. Add 
beaten egg and remainder of sugar, and beat 
four minutes. Add alternately flour and milk, 
beating well. Add vanilla, and bake in layer- 
oake pans in quick oven. Cut fine Yz pound 
marshmallows. Spread them between cake 
layers, and stand in open oven till they melt. 

Orange Cake 

% cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 5 eggs, 1 
pint flour, 1% teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 1 
teaspoonful extract orange, 1 cupful milk. Rub 
the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, 
two at a time, beating five minutes after each 
addition; add the flour sifted with the powder, 
the milk, and extract; mix into a smooth, fine 
batter, put in a paper-lined cake-tin, and bake 
in a moderate oven thirty minutes. When cool, 
cover the top with the following preparation: 



BREAD AND CAKES 839 



Whip the whites of 3 eggs to a dry froth; then 
carefully mix in 4 cupfuls sugar, the juice, 
grated rind, and soft pulp, free of white pith 
and seeds, of 2 sour oranges. 

Rum Cake 

Take the yolks of 12 eggs, beat them up, and 
add three-quai:ters of a pint of cream, the sahae 
quantity of rum, and sugar to taste ; add also 
the grated peel of a lemon. Butter a form, pour 
the mixture in, and bake till it is dry at the top ; 
the cake may be iced or only strewn with sif;ted 
sugar, and ornamented with preserved chei'ries, 
etc., or whipped cream may be laid on the top. 

Thanksgiving Surprise 
Bake sheet of coffee fruit-cake; when cold 
cut into rounds ; cut same size pieces from sheet 
of Bavarian cream; place on top; cover with 
red raspberry jam; then with a meringue; 
brown delicately; garnish with raisins cooked 
in sherry; flavor Bavarian with vanilla and 
have it firm before cutting. 

Sponge Cake 
Take half a pound of loaf sugar, rub the rind 
of a lemon on 2 or .3 of the lumps, and crush the 
whole to powder. Then take 5 eggs, separate 
the whites from the yolks, and beat the latter 
for twenty minutes; then shake in the sugar 



840 BREAD AND CAKES 

gradually, and beat together. Stir in 6 ounces 
of flour, with, about 20 drops of the essence of 
almonds, vanilla, and lemon. Beat the whites 
to a solid froth, and add them to the rest. Fill 
a well-oiled tin about half-full, and bake in a 
quick oven. Time to bake, about an hour. 
Sufficient for a moderate-sized mould. 

Dark Fruit Cake 

2 cupfuls butterj 2 cupfuls sugar, 12 eggs, 4 
cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, % 
teaspoonful salt, 1 pound currants, 1 pound 
sliced citron, 3 pounds seeded raisins, 1 pound 
chopped figs, 1/2 cupful any kind of wine, 2 
tablespoonfuls strained lemon juice, 2 te^a- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, % teaspoonful each cloves 
and mace, % teaspoonful each allspice and nut- 
meg. Sift together flour, salt, baking-powder, 
and spices. Dredge fruit thoroughly. Cream 
butter and sugar, add beaten yolks and lemon 
juice. Alternate flour and wine, beat for ten 
minutes. Add whipped whites. Stir in pre- 
pared fruit. Line loaf pans with 4 thicknesseB 
paper ; pour in batter. Bake in slow oven from 
three to five hours, covering pans with paper 
until two-thirds baked. 

Citron Cake 

Mix the well-beaten yolks of 6 eggs with half 
a pound of pounded and sifted sugar, and 10 



BREAD AND CAKES 841 

ounces of fine flour ; add half a pound of fresh 
butter beaten to a cream, 4 ounces of candied 
citron chopped small, a wineglassful of brandy, 
and the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm 
froth. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into 
a well-buttered mould, and bake it in a good 
oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Pound Cake 
Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream. 
Beat into it a pound of fine sugar pounded and 
sifted, upon part of which, before it was 
pounded, the rind of 2 oranges or lemons has 
been rubbed, a pound of dried flour, a pinch of 
salt, 8 eggs which have been thoroughly 
whisked, the whites and yolks separately, and a 
glass of wine, brandy, or rose-water. Beat the 
mixture for twenty minutes, and pour it into a 
tin which has been lined with butteted paper. 
Bake in a well-heated, though not fierce, oven, 
and, if possible, do not increase the heat until 
the cake is baked. Though the cake must be 
turned about that it may be equally browned, 
the oven door must not be opened oftener than 
is absolutely necessary; and if the cake gets 
too highly colored before it is done enough, a 
piece of paper should be laid upon it. In order 
to ascertain whether it is sufficiently baked, put 
a skewer to the bottom of it, and if it comes 
54 



842 BREAD AND CAKES 

out dry and clean the cake is done ; if moist, it 
must be returned at once to the oven. When 
the cake is done it should be turned out at once 
and placed upon its side, or else on a sieve, 
which has been turned upside do.wn, until it is 
cold, and the paper should not be removed until 
the cake is to be used. This cake may be made 
either larger or smaller by increasing the quan- 
tity of the ingredients in their due propor- 
tions ; and it may be made less rich by using a 
larger quantity of flour. A pound of picked 
and dried currants is frequently added to the 
other ingredients, and the flavor may be varied 
by the addition of candied peel, — ^lemon or 
orange, — blanched and chopped almonds, pis- 
tachio kernels, dried cherries, or plums. Time 
to bake, one hour and a half to two hours. 

Currant Cake 

1 cupful butter, 1 cupful dugar, 4 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking-powder, 1 piat flour, 1% cup- 
fuls currants, washed and picked, 2 teaspoonfuls 
extract cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful extract 
lemon. Rub the butter and sugar to a white, 
light cream. Add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating 
a few minutes after each. Add the flour sifted 
with the powder, the currants, and the extracts. 
Mix into a medium batter. Bake in paper-lined 
cake-tin fifty minutes in a moderate oven. 



BREAD AND CAKES 843 

Honigkuchen (from Holland) 

Mix with. 1 pound of raised bread dough, 1 

pound strained honey, % cupful' butter, V^ 

ounce cinnamon, pinch cloves, and nutmeg, 

grated rind of 1 lemon, 14 pound chipped 

citron, 1 ounce candied ginger, yolks of 4 eggs, 

whites of 2 ; % teaspoonful soda ; 1 cupful flour. 

Bake in loaf; decorate with almond fancy 

meringues. 

Lemon Cheese Cake 

Beat 6 eggs, 1 pound sugar, % pound of but- 
ter, grated rind of 3 lemons, and the juice of 6. 
Then cook in a double boiler until like honey. 
When cold turn into pie-crust shell. Trim 
with fancy crust pieces, and bake in oven. 

Cheese Cake (from Holland) 

Line pan with " kuchen " dough; let rise. 
Rub 1 quart cottage cheese smooth with 1 table- 
spoonful butter, 1/2 cupful sugar, yolks of 3 
eggs, pinch salt, grated lemon peel ; add 1/2 cup- 
ful currants, whites of eggs beaten stiff, 1 cup- 
ful cream ; pour into lined pains and bake ; cover 
with whipped cream in frills when cold. 

Russian Punch Tart 

Bake loaf of sponge cake. Flavor with 
arrack; remove centre, and crumble. Thin 
crab-apple jelly with a little brandy; add 
crumbs ; fill cake-'shell ; cover with icing flavored 



844 BREAD AND CAKES 



with, almonds ; decorate with ^^alnuts and cher- 
ries, pineapple, orange, and other candied 
fruits. 

FILLINGS AND ICINGS 

Cream Filling 

2 cupfuls sugar, 3 cupfuls milk, 3 heaping 
tablespoonfuls corn starch, yolks 5 eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful butter, 2 teaspoonfuls extract vanilla. 
Scald milk in double boiler, add corn starch, dis- 
solved in little cold milk, stir till smooth. Add 
sugar, cook ten minutes. Add egg yolks, cook 
four minutes, take off, and add vanilla. 

Cocoanut FilKng 

1 cupful grated cocoanut, 1 cupful sugar, 1 

cupful milk, 2 eggs. Cook all together five 

minutes. 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

1/^ cake chocolate, grated, % cupful milk, i/o 

cupful sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, pinch salt, 

1 teaspoonful extract vanilla. Boil gently till 

thick. 

Chocolate Filling 

1/4 cake chocolate, grated, % cupful milk, 

yolk 1 egg, 1 cupful sugar, 1 teaspoonful extract 

vanilla. Boil sugar, chocolate, and milk till 

thickened, add egg yolk, cook two minutes ; take 

from fire, add vanilla. 



BREAD AND CAKES 845 



Caramel Filling for Cake 

1 pound brown sugar, i/^ cupful cream or not 

quite 1/2 cupful milk, lump of butter size of a 

small egg. Boil five minutes; flavor to taste 

with vanilla. Beat until cool. 
Boiled Icing 

Boil 1 cupful granulated sugar with % cupful 
water till it ropes when dropped from fork; 
pour gradually over stiffly whipped whites of 2 
eggs, beating hard. Add flavoring, and use at 
once. 

Chocolate Water Icing 

Melt 3 ounces fine chocolate in a few spoon- 
fuls water until creamy. Boil 2 eupfuls granu- 
lated sugar with 1 cupful water, without stir- 
ring, till it can be rolled in soft ball between 
fingers in cold water. Take from fire, stir for 
a moment till it becomes slightly cloudy. Add 
chocolate, and use at once on cake. 

Maple Sugar Frosting 

Boil % pound broken maple sugar with 3 
tablespoonfuls water till dissolved and thick 
enough to rope when dropped from fork. Pour 
gradually on whipped whites of 2 eggs. Beat 
till thick enough to spread. 

Marshmallow Frosting 

Heat 2 tablespoonfuls milk and 6 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar over fire ; boil 6 minutes without stir- 



846 BREAD AND CAKES 

ring. In double boiler heat i/4 pound cut 
marshmallows. Wben very soft add 2 table- 
spoonfuls boiling water, cook till smooth. 
Beat in hot sugar ; keep beating till partly cool, 
add V3 teaspoonful extract vanilla. Use at 
' once. 

GINGERBREADS 

Soft Gingerbread 

% cupful butter, 2 cupfuls molasses, 1 cupful 
sugar, 4 cupfuls flour, 1 cupful milk, 4 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful baking-powder ; ginger and cloves 
to taste. 

Gingerbread 

1 cupful brown sugar and ? tablespoonfuls 
butter, stirred to a cream ; add 1 cupful New Or- 
leans molasses, 2 eggs ; mix well; stir dry 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder in 2% cupfuls flour; 
put in ginger or spice to taste ; bake in 1 loaf 1 
hour. 

Sour-Milk Gingerbread 

1 cupful each molasses, sugar, shortening, 
and sour milk; 3 eggs, 4 cupfuls flour, 1 table- 
spoonful ginger, 2 teaspoonfuls soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful lemon, and cinnamon. If you use lard, 
use teaspoonful salt. 

Colonial Gingerbread 

Put together 1 cupful Porto Rico molasses, 
% cupful butter (sbftened), % <mpful sugar, 2 



BREAD AND CAKES 847 

eggs, 1 cupful thick sour milk, 1 teaspoonful 
each of ginger and cirmamon, 1% teaspoonfuls 
soda sifted with 3 cupfuls of flour ; beat ; bake 
in loaf; serve warm; garnish with whipped 
cream. 

SMALL CAKES 

Plain Cookies 

% cupful butter, II/2 cupfuls sugar, 2 beaten 
eggs, 1 cupful water, 1 teaspoonful grated nut- 
meg, 1 cupful flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful 
baking-powder, sufficient flour added to make a 
soft dough. EoU out, cut into cookies, and 
bake pale brown in moderate oven. 

Lady Fingers 

Whisk 4 fresh eggs thoroughly, the whites 
and yolks separately. Mix smoothly with the 
yolks 3 ounces of powdered sugar and 3 ounces 
of flour; add the whites, and afterwards a quar- 
ter of a pint of rose-water. Beat all together 
for some minutes. Have ready a well-buttered 
baking-tin ; form the paste upon it with a spoon 
in ' ' fingers ' ' three inches long and three-quar- 
ters of an inch wide, sift a little powdered 
sugar over them, let them stand five or six min- 
utes to melt the sugar; then put them into a 
moderate oven, and bake until they are lightly 
browned. When cool put them in pairs, and 
keep them in a tin canister, closely covered, 



848 BREAD AND CAKES 

until wanted for use. Bake, about 20 minutes. 

Molasses Cookies 

1 cupful molasses, 1 cupful sugar, 1 cupful 
butter or lard, 1 tablespoonful ginger, 1 table- 
spoonful soda, ^ cupful of sour milk, 2 eggs, 1 
quart flour. Mix in order, roll out, cut, and bake 
in moderate oven. 

Drop Cakes 

1 cupful butter, 1/2 cupful sugar, 2 eggs, 
1 small teaspoonful baking-powder, 1 pint flour, 
1 cupful washed and picked currants, 1 tea- 
spoonful each extract nutmeg and lemon, % 
cupful milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a 
white, light cream; add the eggs, beat ten min- 
utes ; add the flour and powder sifted together, 
the milk, and extracts. Mix into a rather firm 
batter, and drop with a spoon on a greased 
baking-tin ; bake in a quick oven ten minutes, 

Anise-Seed Cakes 

8 eggs, 1 pound sugar, 1 scant pound flour, 1 
teaspoonful baking-powder, pinch salt, 1 table- 
spoonful anise-seed. Beat eggs and sugar to- 
gether thirty minutes, then add anise, flour 
mixed with powder, and roll out thin. Cut in 
fancy shapes and bake on flat tins in quick oven. 

Italian Macaroons 

Blanch and pound 8 ounces of sweet almonds 
(expose them to the air for a day or two before 



BREAD AND CAKES 849 



they are required to be pounded) with a little 
orange-flower water, 1 pound of sifted sugar, 
and the frothed whites of 3 eggs. Smooth the 
ingredients by rubbing them well together, and 
add very gradually the frothed whites. When 
the paste looks soft and smooth, drop it, in 
quantities about the size of a walnut, through 
forcing bag on to some wafer-paper. Bake on 
the ordinary pan, in a rather slow oven, to a pale 
color. A strip or two of almond should be 
stuck on the top of each macaroon before bak- 
ing. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. 

Ginger Snaps 

% cupful lard, % cupful butter, 1 large cup- 
ful brown sugar, 1 cupful water, 1 tablespoon- 
ful extract ginger, 1 teaspoonful each extract 
cinnamon and cloves, 1 quart flour, 1% tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder. Eub to a smooth 
cream the lard, butter, and sugar; then rub it 
into the flour and powder sifted together. Mix 
into a firm dough with the water and extracts. 
Roll out the dough thin on a floured board, cut 
out with a round biscuit-cutter, and bake on 
greased pan, in a hot, steady oven, eight min- 
utes. 

Almond Jumbles 

Work 2 ounces of butter into half a pound 
of flour; then add 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted 



850 BREAD AND CAKES 

sugar, a little lemon juice, and 2 ounces of sweet 
and 4 or 5 bitter almonds, blanched and beaten 
to a paste with the white of an egg. Mix thor- 
oughly, roll it out rather thin, cut into small 
round cakes, place them on well-oiled tins, and 
bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, ten min- 
utes. 

Peanut Jumbles 

1% cupfuls butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 6 eggs, 1% 
pints flour, % cupful corn starch, 1 teaspoonful 
baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful extract lemon, % 
cupful chopped peanuts, mixed with 1/2 cupful 
granulated sugar. Eub the butter and sugar 
smooth; add the beaten eggs, the flour, corn 
starch, and powder, sifted together, and the ex- 
tract ; flour the board, roll out the dough rather 
thin, cut out with biscuit-cutter, roll in the 
chopped peanuts^ and sugar, lay on greased 
baking-tin ; bake in rather hot oven eight to ten 

minutes. 

Walnut Wafers 

3/2 pound brown sugar, % pound broken wal- 
nut meats, 2 level tablespoonfuls flour, 14 tea- 
spoonful baking-powder, Vs teaspoonful salt, 2 
eggs. Drop small spoonfuls on buttered pans, 
bake in quick oven. 

Springerles 

Stir very thoroughly together 1 poimd pow- 
dered sugar and 4 eggs, then add 2 knife-points 



BREAD AND CAKES 851 

of pulverized potash, and the grated rind of 1 
lemon. When well mixed add i pound of fine 
flour. Eoll out the dough 14 inch thick, and he 
careful to flour the moulds well before pressing 
out the cakes. Remove carefully from the 
moulds and lay on a board covered with anise- 
seed, figure-side up. Stand aside for 12 hours 
in a cold place, then place in pans and bake in 
a hot oven. Work the dough as cold as pos- 
sible. 

Lebkuchen 
2 quarts molasses, 1 quart cream, 2 pounds 
brown sugar, 14 pound citron, 1/2 pound lemon 
peeL % pound almond or hickory nuts, 2 table- 
spoonfuls soda, grated lemon peel of 2 lemons, 
cinnamon, allspice, and nutmeg to taste. Let 
molasses, butter, and sugar melt together (not 
boil). Cool, and add cream. Add flour, but 
not too much, mould out, and bake. May let 
batter stand overnight. 

Pfeffernusse 

1 pound sugar, % pound almonds> 1/2, pound 
citron, % pound candied lemon, 4 eggs, 1 nut- 
meg, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful 
cloves, 1/^ teaspoonful baking-powder, and 
enough flour to drop nicely on buttered tins. 
They should be as large as a silver dollar when 
baked; cut ingredients very fine. 



852 BREAD AND CAKES 

DOUGHNUTS AND CRULLERS 

Doughnuts 

Beat well together 2 eggs and 2 cupfuls gran- 
ulated sugar. Add 1 pt. milk, tablespoon melted 
lard, 1 qt. flour in which are mixed and sifted 3 
teaspoonfuls baking-powder, one teaspoonfuJ 
salt, and 1 grated nutmeg. Beat well, add more 
flour to make a soft dough. Eoll out % inch 
thick, cut in rings or small balls, and fry brown 
in a deep kettle of smoking-hot fat. 

German Doughnuts 

Scald 1 pint milk ; pour hot over 1 pint flour, 
and beat till smooth; add I/2 teaspoonful salt, 
and let cool. Add beaten yolks 4 eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful melted butter, 1 teaspoonful flavoring, 
% cupful sugar, beaten whites of eggs, 1 cupful 
flour mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder, 
and more flour to make a soft dough. KoU, cut, 
and fry. 

Crullers 

1% cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful milk, 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoonfuls butter, melted; 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla, 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, % 
teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 
mixed with 2 cupfuls flour, more flour to make 
a soft dough. Roll out, cut in squares, cut slits 
in each with jagging-iron, and braid together. 
Fry in smoking-hot fat. 



BREAD AND CAKES 853 

Fried Cakes 

Cream 1 cupful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls un- 
melted lard. Add 2 eggs, l^ teaspoonfuls 
grated nutmeg, 1% cupfuls sweet milk, 1 level 
teaspoonful baking-soda, 2 level teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, and flour enough to make a 
soft dough. Fry golden 'brown in deep fat; 
drain, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Swanenhalse (from Holland) 

Make eclair batter ; bake in S shape ; fill with 
sardelles free from bones and skin, seasoned 
with chopped sour pickles, Dutch mustard, and 
mashed boiled egg yolks; cream cheese gar- 
nishes each. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 

Poet's Recipe for Salad * 

** Two boiled potatoes, passed through kitchen 

sieve, 
Softness and smoothness to the salad give ; 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon. 
Distrust the condiment which bites too soon; 
Yet deem it not, thou man of taste, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt; 
Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar procured from town; 
The flavor needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs; 
Let onions' atoms lurk within the bowl. 
And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; 
And, lastly, in the flavored compound toss 
A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce. 
Oh, great and glorious ! Oh, herbaceous meat ! 
'Twould tempt the dying anchoret to eat; 
Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul, 
And dip his finger in the salad-bowl. 
Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's 

tough. 
And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, 

* Generally ascribed to the Rev. Sydney Smith. 
854 



SALADS AND RELISHES 855 



Serenely full, the epicure may say: 

' Fate cannot harm me— I have dined to-day.' " 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 
French Dressing— No. 1 

Rub the sides of a bowl with garlic or an 
onion cut in halves. Put in 14 teaspoonful of 
salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper ; then pour in 
slowly 4 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil, stirring 
constantly. When the salt is dissolved, add 1 
tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon 
juice. Mix thoroughly and use at once. 

Italian Dressing 

Put in a bowl % teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
cayenne, or % saltspoonful of paprika, and one 
tablespoonful of tomato catsup ; add gradually, 
stirring constq,ntly, 4 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil. 
Add 1 clove of garlic mashed to a pulp, and 1 
tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 'and stir 
until well blended. 

Sweet Salad Dressing 

Eub smoothly together 2 tablespoonfuls of 
olive-oil or butter, V3 o^ ^ cupful of water, 2 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, 14 teaspoonful of salt, 
and 1 dessertspoonful of corn starch. Let this 
boil for a moment or two over a fire, then add 2 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. When cold, 
pour over the salads. 



856 SALADS AND RELISHES 

If a yellow color is desired, add the beaten 
yolk of an egg just as the dressing is removed 
from the fire, pouring it over the egg, a little at 
a time, stirring well. When the egg is used, a 
little less water and more lemon juice may be 
required. 

This dressing is an especially good one to use 
on finely sliced apples, apples and celery, 
apples and ripe bananas, strawberries and 
bananas, and on pineapple and oranges. If the 
dressing is put on as soon as the fruit is sliced, 
the fruit will not turn dark. 

By using a cup of strained stewed tomatoes 
in place of the water in this dressing, another 
palatable and very pretty dressing is made. 

Orange Dressing 

Take % cupful of orange juice, i^ cupful 
lemon juice, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a 
little grated rind of the orange. Stir and beat 
all together until the sugar is dissolved; the 
dressing is then ready for use. 

Lemon Dressing 

Take 1 cupful of water, 1 tablespoonful of 
rice flour, the juice of 1 lemon, and a very 
little of the grated rind. Sweeten to taste; if 
to be used with very sweet fruits only a little 
sugar is best, but for acid fruits more sweet- 



SALADS AND RELISHES 857 



ening will be needed. Boil for a few min- 
utes, and allow it to get very cold before 
using. 

French Dressing-No. 2 
Rub the inside of a bowl with onion. Mix 
% teaspoonful of pepper and 1 teaspoonful of 
salt with 3 tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, and 
slowly add 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Beat 
well, then add 3 n/ore tablespoonfuls of the oil, 
and another tablespoonful of vinegar. Con- 
tinue beating until the oil and vinegar are well 
mixed and the dressing is of a creamy appear- 
ance. Use the dressing as soon as it is mixed, 
as the parts separate quickly. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Have everything as cold as possible, and in 
warm weather it is well to set the plate in which 
the dressing is made on a piece of ice. 

Into a cold soup plate drop the yolk of egg, 
squeeze upon it 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice 
and stir until well mixed. Add, drop by drop, a 
cupful of salad-oil, beating constantly until the 
mixture becomes quite thick, and being o*,reful 
not to reverse the motion, as the oil and egg may 
separate. Season with % teaspoonful of salt, 1 
saltspoonful of mustard, and a dash of cayenne 
pepper. Thin the dressing with 1 tablespoonful 
of vinegar. 
. 55 



858 SALADS AND RELISHES 

Cream Salad Dressing 

Beat 2 eggs until very light ; add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, % teaspoonful of salt, l^ salt- 
spoonful of mustard, a pinch of red pepper, and 
1 teaspoonful of butter. When well mixed, add 
3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and cook over boil- 
ing water until it thickens. Remove from the 
stove and thin with 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of 
rich, sweet cream. 

Sour Cream Dressing 

Beat for five minutes 1 cupful of very cold 
rich, sour cream, adding, as you do so, % tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar. This dressing is good served 
with thin slices of chilled cucumbers. 

Whipped Cream Dressing 

Mix together 3 tablespoonfuls of grated 
horseradish, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, 1 
tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of salt, 1/2 teaspoonful each of sugar and 
mustard, and a dash of cayenne pepper. When 
ready to serve, add 1 cupful .of cream that has 
been whipped very stiff. 

Mayonnaise Cream Dressing 

Make a mayonnaise dressing of the yolk of 
1 egg, lemon juice, salad-oil, and seasoning, as 
directed before. When ready to serve, add % 



SALADS AND RELISHES 859 

cupful of whipped cream to 1 cupful of the 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

Mix 1 tablespoonful of sugar, % teaspoonful 

of salt, 1/4 of a teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 

small teaspoonful of French mustard, with 

3 teaspoonfuls of melted butter or olive-oil. 

Beat 3 eggs until light, then add 1 cupful of 

milk, stir well, then add the seasoning with the 

melted butter. When ready to cook add % 

of a cupful of vinegar and place over boiling 

water. Stir until it thickens, then remove from 

the fire and set in a pan of cold water. Beat 

for two minutes. This will keep for several 

days. 

Cream Boiled Dressing 

Cream 2 tablespoonfuls of butter with 1 tea- 

spoonfid of sugar, 1 of salt, % teaspoonful of 

mustard and a dash of cayenne. Beat the yolks 

of 2 eggs and put them in a double boiler ; add 

slowly 4 tablespoonfuls of hot vinegar, beating 

constantly until thick. Remove from the fire, 

add the butter creamed with the seasoning, beat 

well, and when cold add a good half cupful of 

whipped cream. 

Tarragon Vinegar for Salad Dressings 

rill a. jar with 1 pint of tarragon leaves, 1 
pint of vinegar, 3 peppercorns, and 2 cloves. 



860 SALADS AND RELISHES 

In a couple of weeks, strain and preSs through a 
doth. Bottle again, and seal. 

yirs. Hotchkin's Boiled Salad Dressing 

2 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; 8 tablespoon- 
fuls vinegar, or if very sour, 6 of vinegar and 
cold water ; % teaspoonful salt ; 14 saltspoonful 
paprika ; 1 level teaspoonful dry mustard ;- 1 
large tablespoonful butter ; 14= to % cupful rich 
cream, either sweet or sour. Mix the dry in- 
gredients — sugar, salt, mustard, and paprika — 
together, rubbing the mustard well into the 
sugar; this is the easiest and quickest way of 
blending the mustard thorouglily.' Beat the 
egg, using a Dover egg-beater ; add the seasoned 
sugar and, the vinegar, still beating it^ Pour 
the mixture into a double boiler with the water 
in the lower pan boiling briskly ; add the butter 
and still beat with the egg-beater until it is of 
the consistency^ of a boiled custard, taking care 
that it does not cook until it separates, and beat- 
ing and stirring it down from the sides of the 
boiler that all parts of it may get beaten 
smooth. 

Turn out, and when cool put in the refriger- 
ator, and when thoroughly chilled, or just be- 
fore serving, add the cream, beating well. If 
kept in the refrigerator in a glass or other 
covered jar it will keep for two weeks. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 86J 

If the flavor of onion is liked, peel a small 
one and put in when the dressing is put on to 
cook, and take it out as soon as done. This 
gives a slight, but undefinable flavor, which is 
just enough. 

Summer Salads 

At the season of the year when the system 
demands an abundance of water to supply its 
needs, the green foods provided by nature meet 
that demand. 

The salad is the prince of the menu, and 
though the dinner may be perfect in every de- 
tail, it is incomplete without a good salad. 

Vegetables and leaves for salads need to be 
perfectly fresh, crisp, and tender; they should 
be carefully examined, and all bruised and 
tough leaves discarded. 

For mixing a salad there is nothing better 
than the salad knife and fork of boxwood. The 
bowl in which thfe salad is to be mixed should 
be large. It is always best not to season a salad 
until a few minutes before it is to be served. 
Many salads deteriorate by standing. 

For the dressing of nearly all salads, both an 
oil and an acid are essential. 

The term salad is applied to cold meat dishes 
mixed with lettuce or celery and seasoned like 
a salad. Chicken and celery, beef, mutton, or 
fish dressed with mayonnaise dressing are sal- 



862 SALADS AND RELISHES 

ads. Fruits cut in slices and dressed with 
syrups or liqueurs are known as " fruit 
salads." 

With a good understanding of several simple 
dressings almost any number of salads may be 
made by changing and mixing flavorings and 
ingredients. With a little ingenuity combined 
with artistic taste one may have a different 
salad every day. 

Lettuce Salad 

A German Recipe 
Prepare 2 large lettuces. Wash, drain, and 
shred them finely, and put them into the salad 
bowl. Cut 4 ounces of bacon into dice, fry these 
with a finely minced onion for five or six min- 
utels, and shake the pan over the fire to prevent 
them browning. Add to the bacon a little salt 
(the amount will depend upon the quality of the 
bacon), % teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 table- 
spoonful of vinegar; pour all over the lettuce, 
and mix thoroughly. 

Endive, with Winter Salad 

An ornamental, and wholesome dish of salad 
may be made in winter principally by the aid of 
this plant. Only a little cress, celery, and beet- 
root will be necessary to form a striking contrast 
to the crisp, blanched leaves of the endive, which 
may be arranged {en bouquet) in the centre, or 



SALADS AND RELISHES 863 



interspersed with the other materials through 

the bowl. 

Surprise Salad 

Carefully cut a slice from the top of a well- 
ripened tomato, remove the seeds and part of 
the inner portion, and fill with any salad; re- 
place the slice of tomato, and serve with a gar- 
nish of cut lemon. 

Lettuce Lemon Salad 

Arrange a dish of crisp lettuce leaves, with a 
generous portion of dressing made by stirring 
together equal quantities of lemon juice, sugar, 
and water until the sugar is dissolved. 

Mint Lemon Salad 

This is made the same as lettuce lemon salad, 
with a few leaves of shredded fresh mint scat- 
tered among the lettuce leaves, or put into the 
dressing five or ten minutes before serving. 
Lemon points, or slices of lemon, may be used 
for garnishing any of the salads. 

Lettuce Salad with Egg Dressing 

Eub the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs through 
a colander; salt to taste, and make a paste by 
adding 1 dessertspoonful of olive-oil; mix thor- 
oughly, and dilute by adding gradually 1/2 tea- 
cupful of lemon juice and % teacupful of 
water. Pour over the lettuce. This amount 



864 SALADS AND RELISHES 

of dressing is sufficient for a large-sized dish of 

salad. 

Cucumber-and-Tomato ^alad 

Place sliced crisp cucumbers irregularly on a 
leaf of lettuce. On these lay slices of ripe red 
tomatoes, and serve with either French or may- 
onnaise dressing. The delicate green of the 
cucumber, combined with the lettuce of another 
shade, and the red tomato, has a pretty effect. 
If yellow tomatoes are obtainable, they will add 
a novelty to the effect. 

Lettuce-and-Tomato Salad 

Pick the lettuce apart and place it in your 
salad bowl. Pare your tomatoes and cut them 
into eighths; then lay on the bed of lettuce 
leaves and pour French dressing over them. 

Bean Salad 

Mix 2 cupfuls of cold cooked beans with 2 
tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. Arrange on a 
bed of lettuce leaves and garnish the top with 
1 tablespoonful each of chopped chives and 
capers, and 1 cupful of celery. Pour over 
some French dressing, and serve. 

Independence Day Salad— No. 1 

Make balls of red tomato jelly by cooking the 
tomatoes, straining and combining it with gel- 
atine. Serve on a blue platter or salad bowl 



SALADS AND RELISHES 865 



on a bed of silvery white endive, using a French 

dressing. 

(No. 2) 

Use the white hearts of lettuce, making the 
leaves into little nests on a blue platter or shal- 
low bowl. Into each nest put a small round to 
mato, scalded and peeled, and then chilled. 
Garnish the edge with round red radishes, with 
the peeling cut into points and turned back to 
show the white. Pour over it a French dress- 
ing. 

Chicory Salad 

Wash the chicory, trim the ends, leaving each 
piece about three inches long. ^Put in a bowl y^ 
teaspoonful of . salt, 1 teaspoonful of grated 
onion, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper ; mix, and 
add 4 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil; rub until the 
salt is dissolved ; add 1 tablespoonful of tarra- 
gon vinegar ; mix well and pour over the chicory, 
and serve at once. 

PimoIa-and-Cheese Salad ^ 

Break up 2 square cream cheeses and mix 
with 2 dozen olives and 6 pimentos, both 
chopped rather fine, or, use with 2 dozen pimo- 
las, which are olives stuffed with pimentos; 
pack closely into a pan and put on ice, and when 
it is to be used cut in strips and served on let- 
tuce with French dressing. The contrasting 
colors of the green olives, the scarlet pimentos, 



866 SALADS AND RELISHES 

and the white cheese make the effect most at- 
tractive. 

Lettuce Salad 

Cut the lettuce in quarters, from the bottom. 
Eemove the leaves carefully without mashing 
or pressing them. Wash each leaf and dry it 
on a clean, soft towel; arrange them loosely in 
the salad-bowl. Sprinkle over chopped chives, 
parsley, or onion. Leave it on the ice until 
ready to serve ; have the oil and vinegar brought 
to the table with it. Dust the salad with salt 
and pepper. Eub the spoon with garlic or 
onion, measure the oil, pour it over the lettuce, 
mix and toss with a salad fork and spoon until 
the oil is evenly distributed. Then pour over 
the vinegar, toss again, and serve. 

Tomato Baskets with Cucumber Jelly 

Cut cucumber and tomato pulp into pieces, 
stew tender, pass through sieve, season with 
white pepper, salt, and vinegar. To 1 cupful of 
piilp add % t6aspoonful gelatine, dissolved in a 
little water. Let it become stiff, cut up in dice, 
and serve in tomato basket. Dress first with a 
little French dressing ; then on top put 1 spoon- 
ful of mayonnaise. 

Salad Whales 

Cut slices from the tops of cucumbers, remove 
inside pulp ; mix with celery, tomato cubes, nas- 



SALADS AND RELISHES 867 

turtium seeds, lobster, and mayonnaise; refill 
shells and place lids on ; cut mouth in one end ; 
large black-headed pins for eyes ; tail of green 
paper. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

Season a can of tomatoes with 2 cloves, i/^ 
bay leaf, and % tfeaspoonful each of salt and 
paprika. Boil for fifteen minutes, then add 1 
tablespoonful of gelatine dissolved in % cupful 
of water. Strain into small moulds, and when 
cold and firm turn out on lettuce, and garnish 
with 2 cupfuls of chopped celery, mixed with 
mayonnaise. 

Tomato-and-Corn Salad 

Peel 6 ripe, firm tomatoes, cut off the top and 
scoop out the centre with a spoon. Fill the hol- 
lowed tomatoes with cold boiled corn, cut from 
the cob, and mixed with mayonnaise dressing. 
Place the tomatoes on a bed of lettuce leaves 
and leave on ice until wanted. 

Tomato-and-Peanut Salad 

Prepare the tomatoes as directed above. 
Blanch 1 pint of roasted peanut meats by pour- 
ing boiling water over them. Skin, and when 
cold pound in a mortar and mix with mayon 
naise. Fill the tomatoes with this and serve on 
lettuce. 



868 SALADS AND RELISHES 



Tomatoes with Whipped Cream 

Peel and halve firm ripe tomatoes, then set on 
ice for an hour or so. Place them on a bed of 
lettuce leaves, sprinkle with salt, and put a 
heaping spoonful of whipped cream on each 
half. 

Frozen Tomato Salad 

Strain 1 quart of cooked tomatoes and season 
with salt, paprika, sugar, nutmeg, and a little 
grated lemon peel. Freeze until firm in apple- 
shaped moulds. Cover with mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and serve at once. 

Rainbow Salad 

Two-quart mould. 1 pint each of tomato, 
cucumber, orange and lemon jelly. Pimolas, 
and hard-boiled eggs, white in bottom of mould; 
turn layer of tomato jelly in; when firm, al- 
ternate layers of others; scoop, out centre, fill 
with cooked sweetbreads and mayonnaise. 

Cauliflower Salad in Red-Pepper Cases 

Boil a cauliflower until tender, or use one 
boiled the day previous. Separate the flowerets 
without breaking them too small. Take me- 
dium-sized, round red peppers, cut a slice from 
the stem end and scoop out the inside, arrange 
them on leaves of crisp pale green lettuce leaves 
to form a neSt around the peppers. Fill the 
cavity with the cauliflower, stems downward, 



SALADS AND RELISHES 869 

and put on the top of each a spoonful of thick 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing. Keep on the 
ice until ready to serve. It is a good plan to 
put a spoonful of the dressing inside the pep- 
pers before putting in the cauliflower; there 
will then be sufficient without putting enough 
on the top to hide the pretty effect of the combi- 
nation of color in the cauliflower and pepper. 

Cold Slaw 

Take a solid young white cabbage and shred 
fine. Make the following dressing. Heat % 
pint vinegar and put into it 1 tablespoonful each 
of sugar, butter, 1 saltspoonful celery salt, 1 of 
pepper, and 1 of salt. Take from the fire and 
stir in 1 cupful of scalded milk, to which have 
been added 2 well-beaten eggs. Mix in with the 
shredded cabbage in a salad bowl. Set on ice, 
and serve very cold. 

Cold slaw is frequently dressed with plain 
vinegar dressing, and salt, pepper, and paprika. 

Nasturtium Salad 

Cut the heart of a large bunch of celery very 
fine, and add to it 1 tablespoonful of minced 
parsley and 6 blades of chives. Mix with a 
French dressing, then stir in lightly the petals 
of 10 or 12 nasturtium blossom^. Put into a 
salad dish lined with crisp lettuce leaves, and 
garnish with nasturtium leaves and blossoms. 



870 SALADS AND RELISHES 

This makes a very attractive salad if garnished 
elaborately with the leaves and blossoms. 

Dandelion Salad 

Select the young tender leaves of the dande- 
lion. Wash well, and lay in ice water for an 
hour. Drain, and dry by laying them between 
the folds of a napkin. Turn into a chilled dish 
and mix lightly.with a French dressing. Serve 
at once. 

Cucumber Saiad 

Select 3 firm cucumbers, peel and cut into 
halves lengthwise. Scoop out the seeds, and 
then lay them on ice for half an hour. Make 
a filling of very finely chopped celery and 
blanched walnut meats, also chopped. Mix 
thoroughly with a French dressing, then fill the 
cucumber shells about fifteen minutes before 
serving, and place a piece of parsley at each 
end of the stuffed cucumbers. 

Sweetbreads-and-Cucumber Salad 

Let a pair of sweetbreads lie in French dress- 
ing for an hour. Chill, drain, and mix with an 
equal quantity of sliced cucumber. Stir a lit- 
tle whipped cream lightly into a French dress- 
ing and pour over the sweetbreads and cucum- 
bers. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 871 

Chiffonade Salad 

Have 1 cupful each of lettuce, celery, and 
cMcory cut into shreds, and 1 tablespoonful 
each of chopped beets, onion, parsley, tarra- 
gon, and jsweet red pepper. Mix all together 
with a French dressing, and serve on lettuce 
leaves with a garnish of sliced tomatoes. 

Spinach Salad 

Boil a peck of spinach, season, and mould in 
6 claret glasses. Arrange 6 slices of cold 
boiled tongue or ham on lettuce leaves. Turn 
out the contents of each claret glass on a slice 
of the meat. Cover with French dressing, and 
garnish with boiled eggs. 

French Salad 

It would be difficult to particularize a French 
salad. It is composed of everything or any- 
thing. Many improvised dishes of salad, such 
as beans, potatoes, cauliflower, and celery 
(cooked), are served at a Frencb table, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, chopped tarra- 
gon, or a little tarragon vinegar. Fish salads, 
too, are highly relished, namely, the remains of 
any solid fish, such as cod, sole, or turbot, for 
which the following sauce will be found excel- 
lent, as it will be also for a lettuce or other vege- 
table salad : Bruise the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs with a wooden spoon, and moisten with a 



872 SALADS AND RELISHES 



raw egg ; put this egg-mixture into a bowl, with 
2 -saltspoonfuls of salt, a little pepper, and a 
pinch of cayenne ; add by degrees oil and vine- 
gar, alternately, until the required quantity, 3 
tablespoonfuls of oil and one of vinegar, which 
may be tarragon, has been mixed. Keep the 
sauce stirred and well smoothed with the spoon. 
Add % teaspoonful of shred onion, and the 
same of chervil and tarragon, if plain vinegar 
has been used with the oil. 2 tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream or melted butter will make the sauce 
richer and better, and the whites of eggs may be 
chopped and added to the salad. 

German Salad 

Take any kind of cold boiled vegetable, such as 
cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, potatoes, 
sea-kale, or a little of three or four kinds. Cut 
them into small pieces, and, if the flavor is liked, 
add chopped oilion or chopped raw apple. 
Season with pepper and salt, and add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, and 4 of oil, to every 2 
p6unds of vegetables. Serve in a salad-bowl, 
and garnish with sliced beetroot and parsley. 
Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. 

Artichoke Salad 

Wash thoroughly and quarter some very 
young artichokes. Bemove the ehokes, and eat 
them like radishes, with pepper, salt, vinegar, 



SALADS AND RELISHES 873 

and oil. They taste like mits, and make a nice 
relish. Time to prepare, ten minutes. 

French-Bean-and-Celery Salad 

This is one of the universal favorites among 
summer salads. Cut tender celery into quar- 
ter-inch pieces, pour over it % cupful of lemon 
juice, and % cupful of water, for each % cup- 
ful of celery, and let it stand for an hour or 
more.. Serve on a leaf of lettuce over young 
French beans which have been cooked in salted 
water. 

Sorrel Salad 

Scald and peel solid tomatoes, cut a slice from 
the stem ends, scoop out the centres, and put 
them on the ice to chill. Chop a handful of 
sheep sorrel, mix it with an equal quantity of 
cress, mushrooms, and mint, all chopped fine; 
fill the tomatoes with the mixture, stand them on 
nests of lettuce leaves, and pour French dress- 
ing over them. 

Partridge berries may be substituted for the 
mushrooms. 

Macedoine Salad 

Have ready 1 capful each of cold boiled 
green peas and string beans, and % cupful of 
cold boiled carrots, cut into dice. Have 1 cup- 
ful of beets boiled and cut into dice. Put all of 
these ingredients in an ice-box until chilled and 
56 



874 SALADS AND RELISHES 



stiff. Heap the beets in the centre of a shallow 
bowl; arrange around them the celery dice, 
then the beans, then the carrots, and lastly the 
peas. Pour over this a good French dressing, 
and garnish with lettuce leaves or nasturtium 
blossoms. 

The salad can be served in a ring of aspic 
jelly if preferred. 

Truffle Salad 

6 truffles, 3 artichokes, 4 eggs, mustard, 3 
gills of oil and tarragon, clove of garlic, mayon- 
naise, tarragon, chervil, chives, parsley. 

Cut the truffles in small pieces, place them 
into a bowl with the artichoke bottoms, pre- 
viously cooked and cut into eight pieces. Eub 
through a sieve the hard-boiled egg yolks, lay 
them in a bowl with the mustard, work well to- 
gether, add gradually the oil and tarragon vine- 
gar; rub the bottom of a salad bowl with a 
clove of garlic, set the truffles in, and the arti- 
chokes over ; cover all with a mayonnaise, mix- 
ing in also some tarragon, chervil, chives, and 
parsley, all finely chopped. 

Asparagus Salad 

Cut the tender parts from one bundle of 
boiled asparagus into pieces of the same length 
and tie them in bunches, then cook them in boil- 
ing salted water and put them on ice. When 



SALADS AND RELISHES 875 



about to serve put the asparagus into a salad 
bowl, and pour over it Prencb dressing. 

Brunswick Salad 

Arrange 2 cupfuls of celery cut into inch 
lengths, and 1 cupful of pickled nasturtium 
seeds on lettuce leaves. Garnish with the 
yolks of 2 hard-boUed eggs passed through a 
sieve, and the whites cut into dice, 4 cold bpiled 
truffles minced, and 1 tablespoonful of minced 
chives. Cover with French dressing, and serve. 

German Potato Salad 

Boil new potatoes; when cold slice them and 
mix them well with a dressing made with ^ 
cupful of cream, the yolk of 1 beaten egg, 1/2 
teaspoonfiil of salt, % saltspoonful of paprika, 
or a dash of cayenne, 1 tablespoonful of tarra- 
gon vinegar. Shred a few pickled gherkins, 
and boned anchovies. Mix these well with the 
dressing before adding it to the potatoes. 

Potato Salad 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices and mix 
with them 2 minced raw onions, and 1 table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of salad-oil mixed with 1 dessertspoonful 
of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir 
lightly together, then set in the ice-box for an 
hour. When ready to serve, stir in ^a cupful 



876 SALADS AND P.2LISHES 



of mayonnaise, and garnish with 2 hard-boiled 
eggs and 6 stoned olives. 

Cabbage Salad 

Mix 2 cupfuls of chopped cabbage with 1 cup- 
ful of celery, 1 tablespoonful of minced chives, 
and the same of catsup. Stir in some boiled 
dressing or mayonnaise, and serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Beet Salad Farci 

Boil and peel 6 good-sized beets ; cut off the 
ends and scoop out the centre, leaving a wall 
about Vs of an inch thick. Soak in vinegar for 
two hours, then drain and fill with the following 
mixture : 1 cucumber, 1 tomato, 1 bunch of cel- 
i ery, % cupful of finely chopped beets, salt, and 
a dash of cayenne. Pour over a French dress- 
ing, and serve at once. 

Bean-and-Beet Salad 

Boil 1/2 cupful of small kidney beans. Cook 
4 large red beets imtil tender, and when cold out 
into tiny dice. Have ready 1 pint of cooked 
string beans cut into inch-lengths. When ready 
to serve, heap the beets in the centre of a glass 
dish, next the kidney beans, and, as an outer 
circle, the string beans. Edge the dish with 
fresh, crisp lettuce leaves, and pour a French 
dressing over all. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 877 

Egg Salad with Sardine Mayonnaise 

Boil 8 eggs hard, throw them into cold water, 
peel, and lay on ice. Skin and mash to a paste 
4 sardines, then rub them into 1 cupful of niay- 
onnaise. Cut the eggs through the middle and 
arrange the halves on orisp lettuce leaves. Put 
1 spoonful of the sardine mayonnaise on each 
half, and serve. 

Daisy Salad 

Make small balls of minced chicken, well sea- 
soned, and moistened with French dressing. 
Boil 5 eggs hard, peel, rub the yolks through a 
sieve and cut the whites in form of petals. Ar- 
range the chicken-balls on crisp lettuce leaves, 
cover with the powdered yolks,, and arrange the 
whites around the balls in the form of a daisy. 
This makes a very attractive salad. 

Plain Egg Salad 

Boil 8 eggs hard, throw into cold water ; peel 
and cut into quarters. Line a chilled dish with 
lettuce leaves, heap the eggs on these and pour 
over them a thick mayonnaise or a boiled dress- 
ing. Garnish with chopped olives. 

Asparagus and Shrimp Salad 

Mix 2 cupfuls of cold cooked asparagus with 
1 cupful of shrimps. Season with salt and pep- 
ped. Eub the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs 
through a sieve, and moisten with oil and vine- 



878 SALADS AND RELISHES 

gar, using twice as much oil as vinegar. Pour 
this dressing over the asparagus and shrimps. 

Italian Salad 

Cut into dice enough cold boiled potatoes to 
make 2 cupfuls, and enough cold boiled beets to 
make % cupful. Arrange on a bed of lettuce 
leaves or in a ring of aspic jelly, and garnish 
with gherkins and anchovies. 

Pea Salad 

Drain and press through a sieve 1 can of 
green peas. Dissolve a box of gelatiue in a lit- 
tle cold water, then stir into the peas and cook 
over the fire until well heated. Season with 
% teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and a 
little onion juice. Stand in a cold place for 
• two hours, and serve with the following dress- 
ing. Put the yolks of 2 eggs into a double 
boiler with 2 tablespoonfuls each of stock and 
oil. When thick, take from the fire and season 
with 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 1 
chopped olive, and a little parsley. 

Vegetable Salad in Jelly 

Cut 2% cupfuls of cold boiled vegetables into 
fancy shapes with your vegetable cutter. Cook 
1 cupful of water and i/4 cupful of sugar until 
they boil, then add l^ box of gelatine, soaked 
in % cupful of water. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 879 



Pour over the vegetables and let stand until 
firm and cold. Serve on lettuce leaves and 
pour over mayonnaise dressing. 

Salsify Salad 

Boil 2 or 3 bunches of salsify or oyster-plant 
until tender. Season the water with salt, vine- 
gar, onion, and a bay leaf. Cut into small 
pieces, and when cold serve on watercress, and 
cover with mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with 
chopped parsley. 

Lobster Salad— No. 1 

Cut the meat from a fresh, well-boiled lobster 
into small dice, then set it on ice while you make 
a good mayonnaise dressing. When you have 
made the dressing set that on ice. also. Have 
ready V3 as much celery as you have lobster, 
cut into half -inch lengths. Mix the lobster meat 
and the celery together, sprinkle with salt and 
cayenne, then stir in a cupful of the mayonnaise. 
Arrange 2 or 3 crisp lettuce leaves together in 
the form of a shell ; cover a platter with these 
shells and put 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of the salad 
in each. Garnish with the lobster's claws and 
hard-boiled eggs, cut into lengths, lengthwise. 

Lobster Salad-No. 2 

Cut 2 boiled lobsters into rather large pieces. 
Chop fine the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, add 1 



880 SALADS AND RELISHES 



teaspoonful of minced onion, and 1 of minced 
parsley, 1 teaspoonful eacli of tarragon vinegar 
and Worcestershire sauce. Arrange the lob- 
ster meat on crisp lettuce leaves, cover with the 
egg mixture, and pour on some French dressing. 
Garnish with chopped olives and the whites of 
the eggs'. 

Lobster-Salad Dressing 
Mayonnaise is the most suitable dressing for 
lobster salad. If oil is not liked, a dressing 
may be made with the yolks of 3 eggs which 
have been boiled hard and cooled. Eub them in 
a bowl with the back of a silver spoon until quite 
smooth. Add 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, 
1/^ saltspoonful of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of 
cream, and 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Beat 
until thoroughly mixed. A few drops of oil 
may be added if liked. 

Lobster Salad-No. 3 

Pick the meat from the body of a good-sized 
lobster, take the meat out of the tail part in one 
piece, and cut it, with the. contents of the claws, 
into thin slices. Chop the whites of 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, and rub the yolks through a hair 
sieve. Do the same with the coral of the lob- 
ster, mixing the soft part and any bits with may- 
onnaise sauce. Pour the sauce into the salad 
dish, put in a layer of shred lettuce, and put on 



SALADS AND RELISHES 881 

top the slices of lobster, interspersed with hard- 
boiled eggs quartered, sliced beet-root, and cu- 
cumber. Repeat the arrangement until the 
bowl is full, sprinkling the egg and coral over 
and between the layers. Reserve some of the 
hard-boiled egg, both yolks and whites, and ar- 
range alternated with the slices of beet and 
white lobster meat, around the edge of the dish, 
and just before serving pour over the top some 
of the mayonnaise. Crab salad may be made in 
the same way. 

Lobster-Coral Sauce 

Thicken I/2 pi^t of strong white stock with 1 
. tablespoonful of flour rubbed with 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and add % cupful of thick cream 
and the coral of the lobster pounded with 1 table- 
spoonful of butter. Simmer ten minutes and 
add 1 tablespoonful of sherry and a squeeze of 
lemon juice, and strain through a fine sieve. 

Crab Salad 

Mix the crab meat, which has been cut into 
small pieces, with a French dressing, and let 
stand one hour. Then mix with an equal quan- 
tity of tender celery which has been cut into 
half -inch lengths. Add a mayonnaise dressing, 
and serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with crab 
claws. 



SALADS VlND RELISHES 



Crab-and-Tomato Salad 

Peel carefully 6 large, firm tomatoes and re- 
move the centres. Chop and season the meat of 
6 boiled crabs. Fill the hollowed tomatoes with 
this and set on ice for several hours. Serve on 

lettuce leaves. 

Shrimp Salad 

If canned shrimps are to be used, they must 

be taken from the can and set on ice for several 

hours before using. Line a chilled bowl with 

crisp lettuce, lay the shrimps upon these, and 

cover with mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with 

2 hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and thin 

slices of 1 lemon. 

Shrimp-and-Tomato Salad 

i-'eel 6 firm ripe tomatoes, cut a piece off of 
the top and remove the centres. Fill the hol- 
low with cold boiled shrimps, then set each to- 
mato on a lettuce leaf and pour mayonnaise 
over all. 

Shrimp Salad and Tomato Aspic 

Put the strained liquor from a can of toma- 
toes over the fire, and season with salt, pa- 
prika, and the strained juice of 1 onion. Have 
ready half a box of gelatine that has soaked 
three hours in a cup of cold water. When 
the tomato liquor boils, skin, pour over the 
gelatine, and set in a cool place to jelly. Line 



SALADS AND RELISHES 883 

a salad dish, with lettuce leaves, arrange the 

shrimps on these, and place spoonfuls of the 

tomato jelly on them. Serve with French salad 

dressing. 

Oyster Salad 

Select small oysters for this salad. Drain off 
all the liquor, and to each cupful of the oysters 
allow 1 cupful of fresh crisp celery cut into half- 
inch lengths, and sprinkle with salt. Stir in 
lightly some mayonnaise dressing. Line a 
salad bowl with crisp lettuce leaves, fill with the 
oyster salad, and poijr more mayonnaise over 
all. Garnish with pimolas. 

Scallop Salad 

Soak 1 pint of scallops for one hour in salted 
water. Drain, boil for five minutes, then plunge 
into ice water. Mix with 1 cupful of celery, 
which has been cut into half -inch lengths, then 
stir in some French dressing. Serve on water- 
cress, and garnish with chopped olives and 
hard-boiled eggs. 

Salmon Salad Moulds 

Season 2 cupfuls of cold boiled salmon with 
1 tablespoonful each of lemon juice and minced 
parsley and 2 drops of Tabasco sauce. Mix 
with a boiled salad dressing and 1 tablespoonful 
of dissolved granulated gelatine. When thor- 
oughly mixed, fill small moulds, and place on 



884 SALADS AND RELISHES 

ice for several hours. Turn out on lettuce 
leaves and garnish with stoned olives and 3 
gherkins, diced. 

Salmon Mayonnaise 

Boil 7 or 8 eggs hard, then peel them and lay 

them on ice. Eub 5 pieces of canned salmon 

into 1 cupful of mayonnaise. Line the salad 

bowl with lettuce leaves, arrange the sliced eggs 

on the leaves and pour over them the salmon 

mayonnaise. Save some of the eggs to garnish 

with. 

Sardine Salad 

Drain the oil from a box of sardines, then 
squeeze 3 drops of lemon juice on each fish and 
let them stand on ice for one hour. Arrange 
crisp lettuce leaves on a chilled platter and 
place a sardine on each leaf, with 1 spoonful of 
mayonnaise dressing poured over each. Gar- 
nish the edge of the platter with cold boiled 
beets cut into fancy shapes. Serve with crack- 
ers and cream cheese. 

Shadroe Salad 

Boil 1 pair of roes for half an hour in salted 
water. Then plunge into ice water, drain, 
skin, and cut into thin slices. Arrange on let- 
tuce leaves, pour over some thick mayonnaise 
dressing, and garnish with a cucumber cut into 
cubes. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 885 

An Ornamental Fish Salad 

Separate salmon or any other cold cooked 
fish into several equal parts and arrange each 
part on crisp lettuce leaves with a little space 
between each. Fill in these spaces with hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in quarters, olives, from which 
the stones have been carefully removed, fillets 
of anchovies, and the smallest pickled gherkins. 
Arrange these in mounds and pour around each 
section a mayonnaise dressing. Put in the re- 
frigerator until very cold. Add a touch of 
bright color by dotting with diced pickled beets. 

Swedish Salad 

Take a couple of pickled herrings, cut off the 
heads and tails, remove the bones, and divide 
the flesh into dice. Mix with these 2 apples 
peeled and sliced, 2 large boiled potatoes cut 
into dice, an equal quantity of cold roast beef, 
and a little sliced beetroot. Add 1 tablespoon- 
ful of sliced gherkins, 1 tablespoonful of capers, 
1 tablespoonful of shred tarragon leaves, ^ 
tablespoonfuls of chopped chervil, and 1 hard- 
boiled egg finely minced. Season the salad 
rather highly with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. 
Put the whole in a salad bowl, and serve. A 
dozen or more freshly opened oysters may, if 
liked, be laid upon the top of the salad, and va- 
rious additions may be made to it. Pickled 



886 SALADS AND RELISHES 

shrimps, filleted anchovies, dressed Brussels 
sprouts, olives, curled celery, and green onions 
may all be introduced at discretion, and any 
other kind of dried or pickled fish may be used 
instead of herrings, if preferred. 

Saxon Salad (Sometimes Called Sardonic 
Salad) 

Take 2 Dutch herrings, soak them in water, 

boil, cut them first into thin slices and then into 

narrow strips. Cut up cold meat in the same 

way, also some sour juicy apples and a little 

pickled beetroot. Mix well, and season with 

pepper and a small onion minced very fine. 

Moisten the salad with oil, vinegar, and milk 

or cream in equal parts. < 

Anchovy Salad 

Wash and remove bones, heads, fins, and tails 
of 6 anchovies. Cut into inch pieces. Put into 
bowl with lettuce, shredded small; a few small 
onions, 1 saltspoonful of chopped parsley, and 
a few slices of lemon. Mix the juice of a lemon 
with olive-oil. Pour over salad, and serve. 

Russian Salad 

Line a salad bowl with crisp lettuce. Peel 
and chop fine 1 or 2 tomatoes that have been 
well chilled, and distribute over the lettuce. 
Add a mashed anchovy to a French dressing, 
pour it over the salad, mix, and serve. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 887, 

Chicken Salad 

Cut cold boiled chicken into dice. Mix 2 cup- 
fuls of the chicken meat with 1 cupful of celery 
cut into dice. Stir 1 tablespoonful of vinegar 
into 3 tablespoonfuls of oil, season with salt 
and peppef, and then pour it over the chicken 
and celery. When well mixed turn into a dish 
lined with crisp lettuce leaves, and pour may- 
onnaise dressing over all. Garnish with stoned 
olives and hard-boiled eggs. Turkey salad is 
made in the same way. 

Italian Salad 

Pile the white meat of a chicken, picked from 
a cold one roasted, boiled, or fricasseed, in the 
centre of a dish, and shred a little lean ham to 
distribute equally amongst it. Veal also may 
be used, cut in very thin slices about the size of 
a quarter. Surround the meat with a wall of 
young crisp lettuces, small cress, or any salad 
vegetables in season. Boil some eggs hard, re- 
move the yolks, and cut the w;hites into thin 
rings, which arrange in chains over the top. 
Pour over the centre any salad sauce, in which 
cream should predominate, and serve at once, 
that the salad may not get sodden. 

Timbale of Chicken Mayonnaise 

Braise a pair of young fowl with plenty of 
vegetables and some good white stock, and set 



m 



888 SALADS AND RELISHES 

aside to cool. Line a timbale or tube mould 
with golden aspic jelly, and ornament or dot it 
with, cooked tongue, hard-boiled white of egg 
and cooked cucumber, cut into fancy shapes 
with the tiny cutters which can be bought at 
any first-class housefurnishing store. Set this 
aside to chill. 

Take the skin from the braised birds and re- 
move the white meat, cutting it into square 
pieces. Have ready 14 pint of thick mayonnaise 
dressing, add 1 tablespoonful or 2 of whipped 
cream, and 2 tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic 
jelly, which should be cool, not warm. Dress 
the white meat of the fowl with this sauce and 
fill the lined mould with the mixture. Pour ar 
layer of cool jelly over the top and set on ice 
to chill for at least an hour. Turn out the 
timbale and fill the hollow centre with young 
peas (French canned peas in winter) which have 
been boiled tender, and then carefully drained, 
and finally dressed lightly with French dress- 
ing. Surround the whole with a circle of small, 
fine cress. Serve as a salad course. 

Manhattan Salad 

Lay 1 cupful each of chicken, celery, and 
apple in a marinade of lemon juice, oil, salt, arid 
pepper. Stand for half an hour, then mix with 
a rich mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves, and 



SALADS AND RELISHES 889 

garnish, with 2 hard-boiled eggs cut into quar- 
ters, a dozen walnut meats, and the sections of 
I orange. 

Chicken Salad Rolls (Luncheon Dish) 

Remove the soft crumb from a Parker House 
roll and fill with chicken salad; with either 
cream or mayonnaise dressing. Place crisp 
lettuce leaf on salad, and press together roll 
so that the leaf protrudes. 

Sweetbreads with Celery Salad 

Wash the sweetbreads and let them stand for 
half an hour in cold water. Then boil for 
twenty minutes in salted water. To 1 cupful of 
minced sweetbreads allow 1 cupful of celery, 
which has been cut into small dice, and % cup- 
ful of chopped walnut meats. Put into a chilled 
dish lined with lettuce leaves, and pour over the 
mixture mayonnaise dressing to which some 
whipped cream has been added. 

Beef Salad 

Cut cold cooked beef into thin slices, and then 
into pieces about an inch square. Arrange 
them neatly on lettuce leaves. Serve with it 
cooked dressing, into which you have stirred 
4 tablespoonfuls of horseradish, and pour it 
over the beef and serve at once. 
57 



890 SALADS AND RELISHES 

Tarragon Fruit Salad 

Add about 1 teaspoonful of chopped fresh 
tarragon, to % cupful of the lemon dressing, 
and serve it over cherries, strawberries, cur- 
rants, raspberries, ripe tomatoes, bananas, or 
oranges. 

Tarragon is a most delicate flavor. With a 
tomato salad, omit the water in the lemon dress- 
ing and use more sugar and a little salt. 

1 teaspoonful of mint added to the cup of 
dressing is nearly equal to tarragon over the 
same fruits, and is especially nice combined 
with the flavor of oranges; 

Pineapple Salad 

Stir together 1 pint of chopped or shredded 
pineapple, and 2 cups of sweet salad dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. Canned sliced pine- 
apple or fresh pineapple can be used. When 
canned pineapple is used, the juice must be 
drained thoroughly from the fruit. 

Apple-and-Pineapple Salad 

Use i/> of finely cut, tart apples, and % of 
shredded pineapple; as fast as the apples are 
cut, they should be added to the salad dressing, 
to keep them from becoming dark. Apples 
should never be chopped, as chopping draws 
out the juice and discolors them. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 891 



Baked Banana Salad 

A large variety of salads can be prepared 
from this very common fruit. Peel the banana, 
and roll lightly in sugar, place in a granite bak- 
irig-pan, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. Serve with a sour fruit juice thick- 
ened to the consistency of cream by adding a 
little flour rubbed smooth with a small amount 
of butter. 

Asparagus-and-Cucumber Salad 

Take the tips of cold cooked asparagus. Cut 
into thin slices 1 cucumber and let it stand in 
very cold water for an hour. Drain, and dry 
on a towel, sprinkle lightly with salt, and mix 
in lightly the asparagus tips. Arrange nests 
of crisp lettuce leaves on a platter or shallow 
salad bowl, put 1 spoonful of the cucumber and 
asparagus in each, and pour over a mayon- 
naise dressing. Or mix the salad dressing 
lightly with the cucumber and asparagus before 
filling the nests. 

Raspberry Cream Salad 

Mash to a cream % Neufchatel cheese, add i/4 
of a saltspoonful of mustard and pepper, y^. 
saltspoonful of salt, and 1/2 teaspoonful of 
lemon juice ; mix well and add % cupful of rich 
cream. Stir until smooth and add 1/2 cupful of 
pure raspberry juice. Make nests of white, 



892 SALADS AND RELISHES 

crisp lettuce, put 1 spoonful of raspberries in 
each, and pour around them the cream dress- 
ing. Serve very cold. 

Apple-and-Nut Salad 

Wash very thoroughly through several very 
cold waters as much well-bleached lettuce as is 
needed. Chop or grind peanuts, pecans, or 
English walnuts enough to make 1 cupful. All 
these three nuts may be used, or only one, but 
at least one other is better than the peanut 
alone. Have 6 apples in the refrigerator or a 
cool place, to avoid having to chill them too 
long after paring, as they discolor soon and lose 
their fresh look. 

Dry the lettuce on a napkin and arrange it in 
nests on the salad platter, using only the pale, 
crisp leaves. Shortly before time to serve, 
pare and core the apples, which should be of 
medium and uniform size, slice them in rings, 
being careful to keep the rings whole. Pile 
several of these slices in the nests of lettuce, 
and fill the cavity in the centres with the slightly 
salted chopped nuts. On top of each pile a 
spoonful of very stiff mayonnaise or a boiled 
dressing that is stiff enough to hold up. A lit- 
tle more salad dressing may be put around the 
base of the apples, or a pretty dish of it passed 
with the salad. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 893 

California Fig Salad 

This is so very rich, that a little will go a long 
"way, but those who have a fancy for rich sweets 
find it delicious. 

Mix in a salad bowl two dozen fine fresh Cali- 
fornia figs with 1 cupful of pure honey. Pour 
over them 1 quart of rich whipped cream, fla- 
vored with 1 teaspoonful of brandy and 1 table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Serve very cold. 
1 tablespoonful of sherry may be used instead 
jf the brandy. 

Fruit Salad 

Latticed pineapple and tart apples, straw- 
berries, bananas, cherries, pulped oranges, 
seeded Malaga grapes, chopped browned alm- 
onds or peanuts; beat 1 cupful olive-oil, cay- 
enne, salt, and 1 teaspoonful lemon juice ; set on 
ice until stiff; dispose over salad beneath the 
latticed fruit. 

Currant Salad 

Pick equal weights of white and red currants, 
strawberries, and cherries, and place them in al- 
ternate layers on a high dish. Strew a little 
white sugar on each layer, and pour over the 
whole some thick, cream, or place little lumps of 
Devonshire cream at short distances fronj each 
other upon the fruit. Time, a quarter of an 
hour to prepare. 



894 SALADS AND RELISHES 

Celery Salad 

Cut blanched celery very small. Be careful 
that it is perfectly dry, and do not prepare it 
until two or thi-ee minutes before it is to be 
used. Pour over it a mayonnaise dressing (see 
Mayonnaise) and garnish with green celery 
leaves. Time, a few minutes. Sufficient for 
two persons. 

Banana-and-Orange Salad 

Juice of % lemon; juice of 2 oranges; % 
cupful of sugar; white of 1 egg; V2 cupful of 
pineapple juice. 

Slice and mix in a bowl 4 oranges and 3 ba- 
nanas. Heat to the boiling point juice of % 
lemon, 2 oranges, % cupful of sugar, and the 
white of 1 egg, and let simmer five minutes. 
Strain through muslin upon the fruit; add 1/2 
cupful of pure pineapple juice. Put on ice to 
become chilled before serving. 

Cherry Salad 

Lettuce, cherries, mayonnaise dressing, 
cherry juice, peanuts. 

Arrange crisp lettuce leaves on a flat salad 
dish. Scatter cherries through the leaves. 
Pour over a mayonnaise dressing, first adding 
1 tablespoonful of cherry juice instead of vine- 
gar. Then arrange a few cherries over the top. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 895 



The cherries should be stoned and a peanut 
placed inside to keep the shape. 

Waldorf Salad 

1 head of celery, 3 good eating apples, 1/2 cup- 
ful chopped English walnuts. Cut the celery 
and apples into cubes. Mix the nuts with them. 
Arrange on lettuce leaves, and pour over each 
dish a little mayonnaise or a cooked salad dresf 

ing. 

Walnut Salad 

3 cupfuls of chopped celery, 1 cupful of 

broken English walnut meats. Serve on cold 

crisp lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. When 

celery is out of season, or hard to obtain, the 

canned celery answers very well. 

Chestnut Salad 

Shell, blanch, and boil, until tender, 1 pint of 

.chestnuts. Drain, dust with salt, and stand 

aside to cool. Provide 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

When ready to serve arrange the lettuce in a 

salad bowl, put the chestnuts over, and then a 

French dressing, using lemon juice in place of 

vinegar. Hold a small sieve over the bowl, and 

rub the yolks through it, covering the salad 

lightly. 

Cheese Salad 

Eub the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs until a 

smooth paste is formed. Add gradually 2 



896 SALADS AND RELISHES 

tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, stirring all the 
while with a fork; then add 1 teaspoonful of 
mustard, % saltspoonful of cayenne, and % 
teaspoonful of salt, and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar. Mix 1% cupfuls of grated cheese with 
1 cupful of chicken meat, diced, with this dress- 
ing, and put on to a salad dish; Garnish with 
the whites of the eggs, cut in circles, and with a 
few white celery leaves or some sprigs of pars- 
ley. Serve with crackers. 

Apple-and-Cress Salad 

Pare 4 medium-sized apples and cut them into 
small pieces. Pour over them a French dress- 
ing, and heap in the centre of your salad bowl. 
Arrange the cress leaves around the dish, and 

serve. 

Apple-and-Celery Salad 

Lay 1 cupful of celery cut into bits in iced 
water. Peel 4 good-sized apples and cut them 
into small dice, dropping them in the water' as 
you do so. Drain the -celery and sprinkle it 
with salt. Drain the apples, mix with the cel- 
ery, and pour over all a mayonnaise dressing. 

FISH RELISHES 

Stuffed Anchovies 

Split a sufficient number of anchovies, and 
wash thoroughly in white wine ; then bone them. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 897 

Mix cooked minced fisli with fine bread 
crumbs, and make a paste witb yolk of eggs; 
stuff tbe anchovies with this mixture, then dip 
them into batter and plunge into boiling fat 
till a light brown. Drain, place on dish, and 

serve with fried parsley. 

I 

Anchovies and Olives 

Wash carefully, and cut off the fillets of five 
anchovies ; chop fine, adding a little parsley and 
onion ; pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar, 
seasoning with a dash of cayenne. 

Cut in halves nine Spanish olives, take out 
the stones, and fill with the anchovy mixture. 

Have ready small rounds of bread an inch 
thick and hollowed in the centre ; fry in butter 
to a light golden brown ; drain, and place on a 
napkin spread upon a dish ; lay an olive on each 
piece, and pour over a little mayonnaise sauce. 

Canape Caviare 

Have freshly made, crisp buttered toast, cut 
diamond-shape ; spread it with i/g inch layer of 
Eussian caviare (to be bought in tins or kegs). 
Squeeze over it juice of quarter of a lemon. 
Take a hard-boiled egg; mince the yolk and 
white separately; garnish the side of the toast 
with the white and yolk alternately, making a 
half -inch border. Serve in a crisp lettuce-leaf; 
on the side a tablespoonful of finely minced 



898 SALADS AND RELISHES 



white onion. Anchovies, boned and treated in 
this way, make a good substitute for caviare. 

Russian Zakouski 

" What is in Russia called zakouski," says 
M. Dubois, in his able " Cosmopolitan Cook- 
ery," " is nothing but those cold hors d'osuvres 
which the Russians are accustomed to take be- 
fore sitting down to dinner. The'se dishes are 
generally composed of sandwiches (cawapes) 
prepared with herrings, smoked salmon, an- 
chovies, caviare, eggs boiled hard and chopped. 
But besides these canapes, commonly some 
soused or pickled fish is served, or crayfish 
tails, little tartlets, pickles, ogursis," smoked 
breast of goose cut into thin slices. 

" All these dainties are served on a little 
table, where also several kinds of liqueurs and 
little glasses are kept ready; the liqueurs gen- 
erally being Dantzig brandy, arrack, kiimmel, 
and cognac. The zakouskis are partaken of but 
a few minutes previous to taking dinner, but 
without sitting down. In the Petersburg hotels 
the zakouski table is a fixture." 

Anchovy Paste 

Take a dozen anchovies, scrape them clean, 
raise the flesh from the bones, and pound them 
most thoroughly in a mortar; then press them 
through a fine sieve. Add the same weight of 



SALADS AND REUSHES 899 



butter melted, but not hot. The less butter 
used the stronger will, be the flavor of the an- 
chovies. Time, about half an hour. 

PICKLE RELISHES 
Chow-Chow 

1 head cauliflower broken fine, 1 head cab- 
bage, sliced, 6 peppers, chopped, 6 small onions, 
sliced. Boil all together in salt water until 
tender, and drain. 3 pints of vinegar, 1 hand- 
ful of white mustard seed. Add these to the 
drained articles and boil a few minutes. 1 cup- 
ful of sugar, half a cupful of made mustard, 
half an ounce of celery seed, ^ oz. turmeric, 1 cup 
flour. Mix smoothly with little cold vinegar. 
Stir thoroughly just before taking from fire. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Cut a slice from the stem end of 6 sweet 
green peppers ; remove all seeds and soak them 
in cold water two hours, changing the water 
twice. Then take half a pound each of cooked 
veal and ham minced very fine, and half a pint 
of cooked rice, 1 tablespoonful of butter, a little 
grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Place the peppers upright in a greased baking- 
dish, add a little butter and water. Bake until 
browned, basting often. Garnish with parsley 
or nasturtiums. 



900 SALADS AND RELISHES 

Indian Chutney 

Boil together a pint j of good vinegar with 
half a pound of sour, unripe apples, peeled, 
cored, and quartered. Wlien pulped and cool, 
add, first pounding them separately in a mortar 
md afterwards together, the following ingredi- 
ents: 4 ounces of stoned raisins, 8 ounces of 
brown sugar, 2 ounces of garlic, and 2 ounces 
of mustard-seed; mix these weU with 2 ounces 
of powdered ginger, the same of salt, and 1 
ounce of cayenne. Put the mixture into an 
earthenware jar, and set the jar in a warm 
corner by the fire until next morning, when the 
chutney may be put into small jars and tied 
down. It will keep good a year or two. Time 
to stew apples, until soft. 

Piccalilii 

1 quart green tomatoes, 1 quart of onions, 1 
good-sized cabbage, 15 medium-sized peppers; 
chop very fine and mix all together, salt well, 
and leave till morning; then press out all the 
brine, pack in jars, and pour over a nice cider 
vinegar. This is an excellent appetizer. 

Pickled Walnuts 

Scald the walnuts, which must be used for 
pickling before they have a hard shell. This 
scalding will enable you easily to rub off the 
skin. Put them into a brine of salt and water 



SALADS AND RELISHES 901 

strong enough to float an egg. Let them stand 
three days, then shift them into fresh brine, 
and let them soak three days longer. Now 
shift tjiem qnce more into fresh brine, and let 
them soak four days. They are then fit for the 
jar. Have ready prepared equal parts of black 
pepper, Jamaica pepper, allspice, and ginger; 
a quarter of a pint of cloves, the same quantity 
of mace, and a pint and a half of white mustard- 
seed. Beat these ingredients together in a 
mortar, but do not pound them fine. Put the 
walnuts into the jar by layers, and over each 
layer strew some of the mixed seasoning. Then 
have ready some vinegar boiled with sliced 
horseradish and ginger, and cover the walnuts 
with it. When quite cold, cork and bladder the 
jar. This pickle is much improved by the addi- 
tion of a little garlic and tarragon boiled with 
the vixiegar. 



Stuffed Mangoes 

Take' a naelon of the sort generally used for 
pickling, first seeing that it is not quite ripe; 
cut off a slice from the top, and carefully pick 
out all the seeds. Shred finely 1 ounce of gar- 
lic;mixitwitb 2oz. mustard-seed, put it back as 
a stuffing, place the top on, and bind it down. 
Boil, in 2 quarts of best vinegar, one ounce of 



902 SALADS AND RELISHES 

Jamaica peppers, 1 ounce of whole allspice, 1 
ounce of bruised ginger, and a teaspoonful of 
salt ; when boiling pour it over the melon. The 
same vinegar must be put into a saucepan, 
boiled up again, and thrown over the melon for 
three successive days, or more if possible; 
then tie down with bladder to exclude the air. 

Peaches may be substituted for the genuine 
mango, as the latter are difficult to obtain ex- 
cept in caimed form. 

Pickled Gherkins 

Put the gherkins into a large stone jar, and 
cover them with brine strong enough to carry 
an egg. Place the cover on the jar, and leave 
it for two or three days, until the gherkins 
begin to turn yellow; then drain them, and pour 
boUing vinegar over them. Put bay-leaves on 
the top, keep the jar in a warm place, and heat 
the vinegar afresh every day, till the gherkins 
turn as green as you wish. Boil fresh vinegar, 
and with it 1 large blade of mace, 2 ounces 
of whole pepper, 4 bay leaves, and half a 
dozen small silver onions to each quart. Put 
the gherkins into wide-mouthed bottles, pour 
the vinegar over them, first allowing it to cool 
a little, or it will crack the bottles, and cork 
securely when cold. Time, from a week to a 
fortnight. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 903 



Pickled Onions 

Mix a quarter of a pound of Spanish, onions, 
finely minced, with a quarter of a pound of 
chopped apples and an ounce of chopped 
chillis. Pour over them half a pint of white- 
wine vinegar, which has been boiled with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and when cold put the mixture 
into bottles, to be used as a relish for cold 
meat. 

A stick of celery, finely minced, is by many 
persons considered an improvement to this 
favorite pickle. Time, half an hour. 

Watermelon Pickle 

Cut the rind into small pieces and cover with 
cold water, to which add 1 tablespoonrful salt 
and one of alum. 

Let boil until it can be pierced with a fork 
(about 1 hour), then drain off the water and 
throw pickles into cold water, changing it sev- 
eral times while the following syrup is pre- 
pared : 1 quart vinegar, 3 pounds sugar, 4 
tablespoonfuls stick cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful 
whole cloves. Let this boil five minutes and 
pour it over the pickles from which the water 
has been drained. Let stand overnight; the 
next day drain off the syrup and let boil for five 
minutes; then pour over pickles. The third 
day boil all together five minutes; wben it is 
done put a cover over the pickles. 



904 SALADS AND RELISHES 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickles 

Take half a bushel of tomatoes, slice them, 
and sprinkle salt between the layers, and let 
them stand all night. Drain them. To 1 gal- 
lon of vinegar add 5 pounds of brown sugar, 1 
cupful of stick cinnamon, 1 cupful of white mus- 
tard-seed, half a cupful of black pepper, half 
a cupful of cloves. Boil the tomatoes in the 
vinegar and spices a few minutes, or until 
tender. 

Sweet Pickled Pears or Peaches 

6 pounds of fruit, 3 pounds of sugar, 1 quart 
of cider vinegar, 1 heaping teaspoonful of 
cloves, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 
Cook until tender, and pour the hot syrup over 
them. Put the spices in a bag and cook with 
the sugar and vinegar. Put in a stone jar with 
the spice-bag on top, and cover closely. 

Chilli Sauce 

24 ripe tomatoes, 8 onions, 12 green peppers, 
4 tablespoonfuls salt, 8 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
4 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 4 teaspoonfuls gin- 
ger, 8 teacupfuls vinegar; peppers and onions 
chopped fine; put all together and boil three 
hours. 

Tomato Catsup 

1 peck of tomatoes, 6 tablespoonfuls of salt, 
4 tablespoonfuls of mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls 



SALADS AND RELISHES 905 

of cinnamon, % tablespoonful of allspice, % 
tablespoonful of cloves, % tablespoonful of 
black pepper, % tablespoonful cayenne, 1 pint 
of vinegar. Boil the tomatoes until tender, rub 
througb a sieve to remove seeds, add season- 
ing, and simmer tbree hours. 

Spiced Tomatoes 

3 pounds of ripe fruit, pared and sliced; 1 
pint of vinegar, 1 quart of sugar; add spices to 
taste and boil to a jam. Nice for cold meats. 



INVALID COOKERY 
Apple Water 

Cut 2 large apples into slices, and pour a 
quart of boiling water on them or on roasted 
apples; strain in two or three hours, and 
sweeten slightly. 

Barley Gruel 

Wash 4 ounces of pearl barley; boil it in 2 
quarts of water with a stick of cinnamon till re- 
duced to a quart; strain, and return it to the 
saucepan with sugar and three-quarters of a 
pint of port wine. Heat up, and use as wanted. 

Barley Water 

Wash a handful of common barley; then sim- 
mer it gently- in 3 pints of water with a bit of 
lemon peel. This is less apt to nauseate than 
58 



906 SALADS AND RELISHES 

that made with pearl barley, which is a very 
pleasant drink and is frequently substituted for 
common barley. 

Arrowroot Jelly 

Put into a saucepan half a pint of water, a 
glassful of sherry or a spoonful of brandy, 
grated nutmeg, and fine sugar; boil once up, 
then mix it by degrees into a dessertspoonful 
of arrowroot previously rubbed smooth with 2 
spoonfuls of cold water ; then return the whole 
into the saucepan, stir, and boil it three min- 
utes. 

Beef, Mutton, and Veal Broth 

Put 2 pounds of lean beef, 1 pound of scrag 
of veal, 1 pound of scrag of mutton, sweet 
herbs, and 10 peppercorns, into a nice tin sauce- 
pan with 5 quarts of water ; simmer to 3 quarts, 
and clear from the fat when cold. Add 1 onion 
if approved. Soup and broth made of different 
kinds of meats are more supporting as well as 
better flavored. To remove the fat, take it off 
when cold as clean as possible ; and if there be 
still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting- 
pa,per or cap-paper on the broth when in the 
basin, and it will take up every particle. 

Beef Tea 

Cut in small pieces 2 pounds' weight of fresh 
lean beef; add 3 pints of cold water; when on 



SALADS AND R^ISHES 907 



the eve of boiling, carefully remove the scum ; 
the moment it boils add | cup of cold water ; 
then let it b6il up again, and remove the scum 
as before. If by this time it is not perfectly 
clear, the same quantity of water may be added 
a second time, which will cause more scum to 
rise. ' The same remarks apply to all other 
broths and gravies, which will always be trans- 
X^arent and finely flavored if the same rule be 
observed. Beef tea should be allowed to sim- 
mer not less than three-quarters of an hour, and 
not more than one hour, from the time it is last 
skimmed. 

Clear Broth 
The following is a clear broth that will keep 
long. Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle- 
bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton into 
a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or 
coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough 
for eating with only as much water as will 
cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. 
When to be used, give what flavor may be ap- 
proved. 

Light Bread Pudding 

Pour some boiling-hot milk on a few thin slices 
of white bread or the crumb of French rolls ; 
when cold beat up 1 whole egg and the yolks of 
2 others ; mix them well with the bread, adding 
a small portion of grated nutmeg, lemon peel, 



908 SALADS AND RELISHES 



and as mucli white powdered sugar as will make 
it palatable. A few picked currants may be 
sometimes added. Put the preparation into a 
pudding-basin slightly rubbed over with butter. 
and cover the top with a piece of buttered 
paper ; then place the basin in a saucepan con- 
taining boiling water, and let the puddings steam 
for half an hour or more, according to its size. 

Calves'-Feet Jelly 

Boil 2 calves' feet in 4 quarts of water for 
five hours ; then strain theliquor through a hair 
sieve, and the next day take off all the fat. 
Whisk the whites and shells of three eggs in a 
stewpan ; then put in the jelly, and add a small 
piece of cinnamon, the thin peel of 2 lemons 
and the juice of 3, with about 6 or 7 ounces of 
loaf sugar. Put the stewpan on a brisk fire, 
and whisk its contents till on the eve of boiling ; 
then remove the stewpan, cover it closely, and 
let it remain near the fire for fifteen minutes, 
taking care not to allow the jelly to boil. Pass 
it through the bag in the usual way. If wine 
be desired, it will be better to add it the moment 
before the jelly is passed through the bag. 

Calves*-Feet Broth 

Boil 2 feet in 3 quarts of water to half; 
strain, and set it by. When to be used take off 
the fat, put a large teacupful of the jelly into 



SALADS AND RELISHES 909 

a saucepan witt half a glassful of sweet wine, 
a little sugar and nutmeg, and beat it up till 
it is ready to boil; then take a little of it, and 
beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and add- 
ing a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, stir 
it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a 
bit of fresh lemon into it. 

Chicken Broth 

Put the body and legs of the fowl that 
chicken-panada was made of, after taking off 
the skin and rump, into the water it was boiled 
in with 1 blade of mace, 1 slice of onion, and 
10 peppercorns. Simmer till the broth be of a 
pleasant flavor. If there is not water enough, 
add a little. Strain, and when cold remove 
the fat. 

Minced Chicken 

Take the breast of a cold roast chicken, and 
mince it finely. Add half a teaspoohful of fine 
flour, together with five or six tablespoonfuls 
of broth. Season with a pinch of salt. If 
broth is not at hand, substitute new milk. Heat 
and serve on toast. 

Chicken with Sauce 

Prepare the chicken as in the recipe " Chicken 
with Sippets." Serve it up with a delicate sauce 



9J0 SALADS AND RELISHES 



made by stirring tlie yolks of 2 fresh eggs with 
a spoonful of water, and then adding them to 
the gravy of the chicken while hot, but which 
must not be allowed to boil. Chicken dressed 
in this way forms an agreeable repast for an 
invalid, and is very light for the stomach, and 
easy of digestion. 

Chicken with Sippets 

Take a small chicken trussed for boiling, and 
let it soak in a pan of cold water for half an 
hour. Put it into a small stewpan just large 
enough to hold it; put in half a pint of cold 
water, and when it boils cover the saucepan 
closely, and let it simmer very gently for twenty 
or twenty-five minutes, according to its size. 
Dish up the chickens in a very hot, covered dish, 
put half a dozen sippets of bread round the 
bottom, and then strain the broth from the 
chicken through a fine lawn sieve into the dish, 
taking care to prevent any fat passing through. 
Add a little salt, if approved. 

Egg Wine 
Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold 
water. Set on the fire a glassful of white wine, 
half a glassful of water, sugar, and nutmeg; 
when it boils, pour off a little of it to the egg 
by degrees, till the whole is in, stirring it well ; 
then return the whole into the saucepan, put it 



SALADS AND RELISHES 911 



on a gentle fire; stir it one way for not more 
than a minute, for if it boils, or the egg be stale, 
it will curdle. Serve with toast. Egg wine 
may be made as above without warming the 
egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, 
though not so pleasant to the taste. 

Eggs 
An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten 
and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a break- 
fast more supporting than tea solely. An egg 
divided, and the yolk and white beaten sepa- 
rately, then mixed with a glassful of wine, will 
afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove 
lighter than when taken together. 

Macaroni with Broth 

Take a small quantity of real Italian mac- 
aroni, and boil it in water till it is just tender. 
Drain the water off on a hair sieve; then put 
the macaroni into a stewpan with some of the 
broth, and let it simmer for five or six minutes ; 
season with a little salt, if preferred. 

Meat Jelly 

Take 2 or 3 pounds of the knuckle of veal, the 
same weight of fresh-killed gravy-beef, and 1 
calf's foot; cut the meat from the bones, and 
chop them in pieces; lay. them in the bottom of 
a stewpan, and put the meat on the top of them; 



9)2 SALADS AND RELISHES 

then add as much cold water as will rise two 
or three inches above the meat; let the whole 
simmer gently for four hours, taking great care 
to remove every particle of scum as it rises 
in the first boiling. Strain through a fine hair 
sieve, and the next morning the whole of the 
fat can be taken off. 

Mutton Broth 

This is best made with the scrag-ends of the 
necks chopped in pieces, then well washed and 
soaked in warm water to draw out the blood 
Simmer for two hours in water to cover. 

Orange Jelly 

Use only half a pint of water to 1 ounce of isin- 
glass, and proceed as in the recipe " Isinglass 
Jelly." Then rub the rinds of 1 lemon and of 
2 oranges on a piece of loaf sugar, which must 
be scraped off into a basin, in which the juice 
of the lemon and the juice of 5 or 6 oranges 
must be squeezed. Then add the melted isin- 
glass, and mix well together. Strain through a 
fine sieve. 

Veal Broth (Very Nourishing) 

Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal 
with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and 4 
shankbones of mutton extremely well soaked 
and bruised, 3 blades of mace, 10 peppercorns, 
an onion, a large bit of bread, and 3 quarts of 



SALADS AND REUSHES 9J3 

water into a stewpot tliat covers closely, and 
simmer in the slowest manner after it lias boiled 
np and been skimmed; or bake it; strain, and 
take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will re- 
quire four hours. 

Panada (Made 'in Five Minutes) 

Set a little water on the fire with a glassful 
of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nut- 
meg and lemon peel ; meanwhile grate J cup 
crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture 
boils up, keep it still on the fire, put the crumbs 
in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of 
a proper thickness to drink, take it off. 

Sponge-Cake Pudding 

Pour 1 cup boiling milk on 6 penny sponge 
cakes, and follow same directions as for bread 
pudding (see " Light Bread Pudding "), some- 
times adding a few, muscatel raisins. Half a 
wineglassful of sherry or a tablespoonful of 
good brandy may also be added, if approved. 

Tapioca Jelly 

Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on 
to wash it two or three times, then soak it in 
freshVater five or six hours, and simmer it in 
the same until it becomes qijite clear; then put 
lemon juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should 
have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. 



9J4 SALADS AND RELISHES 

Vermicelli, Italian Paste, and Rice 

These are all to be prepared in the same way 
as macaroni (see " Macaroni with Broth "). 
In this way light and nutritious diet will be fur- 
nished for an invalid, which will often be re- 
tained on the stomach vlien a more solid sub- 
stance would be rejected. 

Water Gruel 

Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees 
into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it 
one hour; season and flavor to taste. 

Whey 

That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, 
especially when the cows are in fresh herbage. 

White Broths with Vermicelli 

Light and delicate white broths may be pro- 
duced by stirring the yolks of 2 or 3 fresh eggs 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, which must 
then be poured into the hot broth, gently stir- 
ring it all the time, without allowing the broth 
to boil after the eggs are put in. 

JELLIES 

Aspic Jelly 

The convenience of aspic for use in garnish- 
ing and for moulded meat entrees is frequently 
overlooked, or thought to be too much trouble 
to undertake. It may be made in half an hour 



. SALADS AND RELISHES 915 

from clear consomme and gelatine, or by sim- 
mering a strong solution of extract of beef, 
with the seasonings that would be used in mak- 
ing the consomme. 

Having 2 quarts of clear consomme or 1 quart 
that will jelly, add a sprig of tarragon and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Simmer together; 
and if the 2 quarts of thinner consomme are 
used, boil it down, to one-half. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of granulated gelatine soaked until soft in 2 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, mixing it first 
with a little of the boiling stock until it is well 
dissolved. Add or omit half a wineglassful of 
sherry or madeira wine. Cool and add the 
slightly beaten whites and crushed shells of 2 
eggs, let it simmer five or ten minutes and 
strain through a jelly-bag until very clear. 

Pour into moulds that have been wet in cold 
water, or, if to be used in garnishing, pour into 
a flat pan, and when cold cut in dice. 

To make the aspic with extract of beef, dis- 
solve 2 teaspoonfuls of extract in a quart of 
boiling water. Season with half a teaspoonful 
of kitchen bouquet, a few drops of onion juice, 
salt, and a little cayenne, a blade of mace, and 
a bay leaf. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice. Simmer all together until the seasoning 
is well blended; add the gelatine and wine as 
before; clear with the egg, and strain. 



916 SALADS AND RELISHES 

Strawberry Jelly 

In strawberry season make the strawberry 
syrup with 1 pound of sugar to 1 pint of juice. 
Seal and set away. When making crab-apple 
jelly heat the strawberry syrup and add half as 
much crab-apple jelly ; boil together a few min- 
utes. The jelly will have the strawberry flavor 
and the crab-apple will cause it to jell. 

Jellies 

Curx'ants, crab-apples, cranberries, and 
grapes, not too ripe, make nice jelly by stewing 
well in water enough to just cover. When done 
hang ia a jelly bag to drain. Let the clear juice 
boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Meanwhile 
heat the sugar, measure for measure, and turn 
into the juice. Boil up, stirring to be sure the 
sugar is dissolved, and remove from fire imme- 
diately. 

Grape Jam 

Remove the pulp of the grapes from the 
skins, boil the pulp until seeds can be separated, 
strain through the colander, add the skins, and 
boil five minutes, after which add two-thirds 
the amount in sugar and boil twenty minutes, 
stirring constantly. Concord grapes the best. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 9J7 



CANNING FRUIT 

The small fruits — currants, red and black 
raspberries, blueberries and strawberries — are 
much finer cooked in the can, as this method 
preserves the form and flavor. Have perfectly 
fresh fruit; look over, fill cans full, shaking 
down so as to have them full, without crushing. 
Place the jars in a steam cooker or in- a common 
wash-boiler in warm water, with a cloth under- 
neath t(f avoid breaking, or, if at hand, a per- 
forated tin or muffin-ring under each can. 
Make a syrup, allowing 1 cupful of sugar and 
1 cupful water to a quart can of berries; sugar 
to taste. For pears and peaches use 1 cupful 
of sugar and 2 of water, as they will exude less 
juice. Let the syrup just come to a boil and 
pour at once into the cans. Be sure your cans 
are placed, as stated, in warm water, or thfe 
syrup will break them. Partly screw on the 
tops and let the water come to boiling-point, 
and boil five minutes, when small fruits will be 
done; large fruits will take longer. Take out 
cans, and if they are not full, fill to overflowing 
with boiling water and seal at once. Plums, 
cherries, currants, and strawberries will bear 
from 1% to 2 eupfuls of sugar to a cupful of 
water. Peaches may be successfully canned as 
above, but together with pears, quinces, and 



9J8 SALADS AND RELISHES 

apples are more quickly canned by cooking in 
water or syrup till tender. Then lift gently 
into the cans, pour over them the boiling syrup, 
and seal. Always use Bartlett pears, as no 
others are so fine to can; and be sure to have 
them ripe. If a boiler or kettle is used to put 
the cans in, it is well, unless they stand very 
close together, to tuck a few clean white rags 
between them to prevent their tipping over, as 
there is some danger of their doing when the 
first two or three are taken out. Let ihe water 
come up well around the cans, but not so it will 
run or boil into them. Use new or very good 
rubbers, they are cheaper than fruit. Have 
tops and cans well scalded. Have fresh fruit. 
Be sure it is tightly sealed, testing two or three 
times before it is put away. Keep in a dark 
place ; many keep it bottom-side up. Tomatoes 
should be scalded, skins removed, sliced, and 
cooked slowly thirty minutes, then sealed fast 
and tight, and put in the dark. If you want 
tomatoes to keep, have them fresh, not over- 
ripe, seal well, and keep in the dark. 

Chipped Gingered Pear 

8 pounds of seckel or other nice pears, 8 
pounds of granulated sugar, V2 pound candied 
ginger root, 4 lemons. Peel, chip or slice pears 
very fine, slice the ginger root, and let these 



SALADS AND RELISHES 9J9 

boil together with the sugar for one hour, 
slowly. Boilthe lempns whole in clear water 
until tender; then cut up in small bits, remov- 
ing the seeds. Add to the pear and boil one 
hour longer, and pour that' into tumblers or 
large-top cans. Delicious to eat with cake for 
luncheon. Use candied ginger root in prefer- 
ence to the green root. 

Jam 

Take whatever fruit to be liiade into jam; 
pick, wash. If large fruit is used, peel, core, or 
pit, as the case may be, and dice. . To each 
pound of fruit allow a pound of sugar. Put 
the sugar into a copper or preserving kettle; 
add enough water to dissolve it. Cook until 
a boiling, thick syrup is produced, then add the 
fruit. Draw to one side and keep the syrup 
just below the boiling-point until the fruit be- 
comes transparent; then pour into glasses or 
jars, cover with paraffin paper, and tie down. 

Marmalade 

Take the very thin peeling from oranges 
(lemon peel is also frequently added) ; cut into 
shreds. Place in saucepan, cover with boiling 
water, changing the water several times. Next 
remove the pulp. The best way is to cut the 
orange in half, take orange-spoon to scoop 
out the pulp. Use one-fourth the amount of 



920 SALADS AND RELISHES 

lemons to the amount of oranges. To every 
pint of pulp and juice allow 1 pound of sugar. 
Boil sugar with water to a syrup; put in the 
peel and pulp, draw to one side, and keep below 
the boiling-point until all is a clear mass. Ee- 
move from the fire, cool, and seal up in jars or 
glasses. Pineapple, shredded, makes a good 
addition to the orange and lemon; or orange 
may be made up separately. 

Apple Butter 

Wash and cut up tart apples without peeling, 
removing the core ; for each half peck allow a 
quart of cider. Boil until apples a;re tender. 
Boil for another half hour, adding for each 
quart of pulp 2 cupfuls of sugar, adding also 
half teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, and 
allspice, also a little grated nutmeg, mixing all 
well together. Put away into stone jars or 
crocks when it has reached the proper con- 
sistency. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHEE DESSERTS 

PIES AND PASTRY 

Green Apple Pie 

Make a good light crust ; wet the edge of the 
pie-dish, and lay a thin strip all round. Pare, 
core, and slice the apples, and lay them in the 
dish with a little sugar and any flavoring that 
may be preferred — such as powdered ginger, 
2 or 3 cloves, grated lemon-rind, with the juice 
of the lemon, a little cinnamon, etc. Lay a thin 
crust over the top. If the apples are dry, the 
parings and cores may be boiled with a little 
sugar and flavoring, and the strained juice 
added to the fruit. Bake the pie in a quick 
oven. It may be served hot or cold. A little 
custard or cream is an improvement. Time, 
three-quarters of an hour to bake. 

Baked Apple Dumpling 

Prepare pastry as for pie; roll into squares. 
Peel and core apple; fill centre with butter, 
sugar, cinnamon, and cloves. Take the pastry, 
bring four points together, pressing edges to- 
gether also. Brush with melted butter aod 

59 92J 



922 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



sprinkle with granulated sugar, and bake in hot 
oven. Serve hot with hard or fruit sauce. 

Cream Apple Pie 

Make an apple pie in the usual way. When 
it is sufficiently cooked, take it out of the oven, 
cut out the pastry from the middle, and, when 
cold, pour a pint of good custard in its place. 
Put some ornaments of puff paste on the cover. 
Any kind of firm fruit may be sent to table in 
the same way. 

Dutch Apple Pie 

Pare, core, and slice 3 pounds of apples, and 
wash and dry half a pound of currants; lay 
part of the apples in a dish, and strew the cur- 
rants, some sugar, and the grated rind of a 
lemon over. Take off the white part of the 
lemon, cut the pulp into thin slices, and spread 
them on the currants ; add sugar and plenty of 
candied orange and citron peel, sliced, and fill 
up with the remainder of the apples. Cover 
with a light paste, and bake in a rather quick 
oven for an hour or more. 



Dried fruit can be utilized for pies by soak- 
ing and steaming. 

Apple Potpie 

14 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced, V/o pints 
flour, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder, 1 cupful 



ICES, PASTRY, AlSfD OTHER DESSERTS 923 



sugar, 1/2 cupful butter, 1 cupful milk, large 
pinch salt. Sift flour with powder iand salt, rub 
in butter, cold ; add milk, mis into dough as for 
tea-biscuits; with it line shalloV stewpan to 
within two inches of bottom; pour in 1% cup- 
fuls water, apples, and sugar; wet edges, and 
cover with rest of dough; put cover on, set it 
to boil twenty minutes, then place in moderate 
oven until apples are cooked ; then remove from 
oven, cut top crust in four equal parts; dish 
apples, lay on them pieces of side crust cut in 
diamonds, and pieces of top crust on a plate; 

serve with cream. 

t 

Banbury Tarts 

Chop 1 cupful seeded raisins, add 1/2 cupful 
cleaned currants, 1 cupful sugar, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls cracker dust, 1 beaten egg, juice and grated 
rind 1 lemon. Roll pie-crust very thin, cut in 
circleSi Lay on each a tablespoonful of filling ; 
wet edges of paste; fold each side over the 
middle to form pointed ovals, dust with gran- 
ulated sugar, and bake twenty minutes in slow 
oven. 

Gooseberry Pie 

3 cupfuls gooseberries, stewed with 1% cup- 
fuls sugar fifteen minutes, and strained. Line 
pie-plate with paste; put in gooseberry jam; 
wet the edges, lay 3 narro^ bars across ; 



924 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

fasten at edge, then 3 more across, forming 
diamond-shaped spaces. Lay rim of paste; 
brush over with egg ; bake in quick oven until 
paste is cooked. 

Mincemeat 

7 pounds currants, 3% pounds peeled and 
cored apples, 3% pounds beef, 3^2 pounds suet, 
1/2 pound each citron, lemon, and orange peel; 
2% pounds coffee sugar, 2 pounds raisins, 4 
nutmegs, 1 ounce cinnamon, % ounce each 
cloves and mace, 1 pint brandy, and 1 pint white 
wine. Wash currants, dry, pick them; stone 
the raisins ; remove skin and sinews from beef 
and suet. Chop each ingredient, separately, 
very fine; put into large pan as they are fin- 
ished, finally adding spices, brandy, and wine; 
thoroughly mix together; pack in jars; store in 
cold, dry place. 

Mince Pasties 

Make puff paste ; sprea;d it with mince made, 
of boiled tongue, suet, apples, raisins, orange 
juice, eider, sugar, citron, currants, and pre- 
served peach. Cover with pastry cut into stars, 
and bake a delicate brown. 

Pumpkin Pie 

1% cupfuls stewed and browned pumpkin, 1 
cupful milk, J^o cupful scalded cre^m, 2 eggs, 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 925 

well beaten; generous 14 cupful of sugar, 14 
cupful Porto Rico molasses, l^ teaspoonful 
each salt and mace, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon; 
bake in pastry shell until firm ; garnish with 
whipped cream. 

Pumpkin or Squash Pie 

Mix 3 cupfuls thick stewed and sieved pump- 
kin or squash, 2 cupfuls milk, 1 cupful sugar, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs, % teaspoonful cin- 
namon, pinch cloves. Line 2 pie-plates as for 
custard pie ; bake in moderate oven. 

Tarts— Gooseberry, Currant, Apple, or Any 
Other Fruit 

Time to bake, from three-quarl^ers to 1 hour. 

1 quart gooseberries, rather more than % pound 

paste, moist sugar to taste. Cut off tops and 

tails from gooseberries, or pick currants from 

their stems, or pare and quarter the apples or 

peaches ; put them into pie-dish with sugar, line 

edge of dish with paste, pour in a little water, 

put on cover, ornament edge of paste in the 

usual manner, and bake it in a brisk oven. 

Tartlets 

Time to bake, quarter of an hour. Line some 
patty-pans -nip: puff paste, fill them with any 
jam or preserve, and bake lightly. 



926 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

Lemon Pie 

Use juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, yolks 
of 2 eggs, 1 cupful of sugar, 2 scant tablespoon- 
fuls corn starch, 1 cupful boiling water. Cook 
in double boiler to consistency of custard. 
Bake under-crust, then pour in mixture. Make 
a meringue with whites of 2 eggs and 3 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Decorate pie; 
set in oven to brown. 

Cream Pie 

2 eggs, 2 cupfuls milk, 1 cupful sugar, 1 table- 
opoonful corn starch. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Beat the yolks, sugar, and corn starch 
together, and make like boiled custard; then 
put in a baked crust, and set in hot oven until 
it thickens. Beat the whites with a little sugar, 
flavor, and put on top ; brown in hot oven. This 
makes one pie. % cupful of cocoanut, shredded, 
may be added to the filling. 

Cfiocolate Pie 

1 cupful of milk, 1 cupful water, 1 heaping 
tablespoonful of flour, yolks of 2 eggs, a piece 
of butter size of a hickory nut, a piece of bitter 
chocolate half the size of an egg, 1 cupful sugar. 
Put the milk and water in saucepan on stove 
to boU. WhUe boiling, drop in^mp of choc- 
olate and stir until dissolved. Sm* the sugar, 
eggs, and flour together in a bowl; stir these 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 927 

into the boiling ingredients in the saucepan 

until well cooked. Turn into pastry shell and 

cool. 

Cream Puffs 

Let 1 cupful milk and 1/2 cupful of butter 
come to a boil. Slowly stir into this 1 cupful 
sifted flour mixed with 1 teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. Add 3 well-beaten eggs and drop on 
buttered tins. Bake about thirty minutes in a 
moderate oven. When cool cut off tops and fill 
with whipped cream, corn-starch filling, or the 
following : 

Cream. — 1 cupful milk, 1/2 cupful sugar, 3 
tablespoonfuls of flour or 1 of corn starch; 
flavor with vanilla. 

Rosettes 

Take 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, and a 
speck of salt; beat these together; then add 1 
pint of milk and flour enough to make a batter 
like that used for griddle cakes ; d.ip hot rosette 
iron in batter and fry in hot fat; serve with 
garnish of currant jelly and top each with 
whipped cream. 

Boiled Indian-Meal Pudding 

Put together in a mixing-bowl 1 cupful each 
of beef suet (chopped fine), molasses, milk, 
seeded raisins, and sift into the mixture 1 cup- 
ful flour, 2 cupfuls corn meal, and a level tea- 
spoonful of soda sifted in with the flour and 



928 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

meal. Mix batter thoroughly. Dip a cloth bag 
in hot water, dust the inside with flour, and 
pour the batter into the bag, allowing room for 
the pudding to swell. Plung'o pudding into a 
deep kettlef ul of boiling water ; cover for three 
hours, refilling with boiling water as the water 
boils away from the pudding. When done, 
remove and plunge into cold water; take out 
immediately and drain. Cut open bag and 
place pudding on hot dish, and serve with raisin 
sauce. 

Raisin Sauce 

Mix together 1 cupful molasses, 1 cupful of 
hot water, the juice of 1 lemon, 1% cupfuls fine 
seeded chopped raisins. Cook for ten minutes. 
Add 1 tablespoonful diluted corn starch and 1 
of butter. Cook until creamy. 

English Apple Pudding 

12 or 14 apples, peeled, cored, and sliced; | 
teaspoonful extract nutmeg, 1% cupfuls sugar. 

Line earthenware pudding-mould with paste, 
pack iu apples, sugar, extract, and a little water; 
wet edges ; cover, pinch edges together firmly ; 
place in saucepan half full boiling welter, and 
boil three hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Cottage Pudding 

1 cupful sugar, 1 cupful milk, 1 egg, lump 
butter size of egg, 1 pint flour, salt, 1 heaping 
teaspoonful baking-powder. Bake 30 minutes. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 929 

Sauce. — 1 cupful sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful 
flour, small piece of butter, mixed. Add ^ cup 
boiling water, let come to boil, flavor witb 
extract vanilla. 

Gruetz (from Holland) 

1 pint gooseberry pulp, 1 pint red-currant 
.iuice, 1 cupful orange juice ; wben hot stir in as 
much corn starch as will thicken ; add pinch salt ; 
cook ; pour into fancy mould ; serve with sweet- 
ened whipped cream, filled through pastry tube, 
and sugar. 

Suet Pudding 

1 cupful chopped beef suet, 1 cupful raisins, 
1 cupful molasses, % cupful currants, 1 cupful 
sour milk, 1 cupful corn meal, brown and white 
flour enough to make a stiff batter, 1 teaspoon- 
ful soda, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon; cloves, nut- 
meg, a little salt. Stir molasses and milk to- 
gether, put in soda, then suet, flour, etc. Steam 
three or four hours. 

Sauce. — 1 cupful sugar, % cupful butter ; mix 
well together with 3 tablespoonfuls flour and 1 
of cinnamon and nutmeg. Stir in 1 pint boil- 
ing water and let cook until it thickens. 

Gooseberry Pudding 

1 cupful sweet milk, % cupful sugar, 2 eggs 
beaten separately, 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 
ter, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder sifted with 1 



930 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

pint flour, vanilla. Butter a pudding-dish, 
pour in 1% cupfuls gooseberry jam (and add 
2 tart apples, sliced fine, if you choose). Pour 
batter over and steam one hour, or bake. 

Sauce. — % cupful sugar, % cupful of butter, 
beaten together; add 1 well-beaten egg, juice 
and a little grated rind of 1 lemon, teaspoonful 
grated nutmeg. ' Mix thoroughly, add % cupful 
boiling water, set bowl in top of boiling tea- 
kettle. Stir constantly till done, but do not 
boil. 

Nut Pudding 

2 eggs, % cupful of sugar, 1 cupful of sweet 
milk, % cupful of melted butter, 1 good pint of 
sifted flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 
1/2 teaspoonful of salt, 1% cupfuls of nu,ts 
dredged in flour. Beat eggs very light; add 
sugar, milk, melted butter, flour and baking- 
powder, salt. Beat hard until thoroughly 
mixed. Then add nuts. Let pudding steam 
three hours. 

Golden Sauce {for the Pudding). — Cream 1 
heaping teaspoonful of butter; add gradually 
1 cupful of sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of milk. Then add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten as stiff as possible. Do not mix in the 
whites, but fold iu lightly, and beat lightly. 
Favor with vanilla. This should be made just 
before the pudding is served. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 931 

Rotterdam Pudding (Rich) 
Beat 4% ounces of fine flour to a smootli 
paste with half a ijint of milk, and add 41/2 
ounces of sugar and a small pinch of salt. 
Blanch and pound 41/0 ounces of sweet almonds, 
and whilst pounding drop in a little cold water 
to keep them from oiling. Put 4i/^ ounces of 
butter into a saucepan with half a pint of milk. 
Let it remain until the butter is melted, then 
stir in the paste of flour and milk, and keep 
stirring the mixture over the fire, until it boils 
and becomes thick, when it may be poured out 
to cool. Add the blanched and pounded alm- 
onds, then stir in first the well-beaten yolks 
of nine eggs, and afterwards the whites of the 
eggs whisked till firm. Beat the pudding 
briskly for a few minutes, pour it into a but- 
tered basin which it will fill, tie it in a cloth, 
and let it boil without ceasing until done 
enough. Turn it out carefully, and send wine 
sauce to table with it. Time to boil, one hour 
and a half. 

Rum Pudding 
Grate 3 ounces of stale bread crumbs, and 
pour over them as much rum as will moisten 
them. When they are well soaked, beat them 
up with 6 ounces of sugar, a little grated nut- 
meg, and first the yolks, and afterwards the 
well-whisked whites, of 4 eggs. Pour the mix- 



932 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



ture into a buttered mould, and let it steam 
until done enougli. Turn it upon a hot dish, 
pour half a tumblerful of rum over it, set light 
to this, and serve immediately. Time to steam 
the pudding, one hour. 

Fruit Roly-Pory Pudding 

Beat a teaeupfui of flour to a smooth paste 
with a little cold milk. Add 2 well-beaten eggs, 
a pinch of salt, and as much milk as will make 
a rather thick batter. Wash half a pound of 
prunes, or other dried fruit, and simmer them 
in a little water till they are quite soft. Drain 
off the liquid, take out the stones, sprinkle a 
little flour over the prunes, and then stir them 
into the pudding. Dip a cloth into boiling 
water, wring it well, and dredge a little flour 
over it. Pour the pudding into it, and tie it 
securely, but leave a little room for the pudding 
to swell. Plunge if into boiling water, and keep 
the pudding boiling until it is done enough. 
Serve with sweet sauce. Time to boil, two 
hours. 

Polish-Pudding 

Blanch 1 ounce of sweet almonds and 6 bitter 
ones, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth 
paste, adding a few drops of water to prevent 
their oiling. Put them into a saucepan with 
half a pint of new milk, and bring the liquid 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 933 



slowly to the boil. Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of 
arrowroot very smoothly with half a pint of 
cold milk. Pour the boiling milk upon this, and 
stir briskly for a minute or two. Add 2 ounces 
of fresh butter and 2 well-beaten eggs, and stir 
the mixture again until it is cool. Put it into 
an oiled mould, and set it upon ice, if possible; 
if not, lay it in a cool place until it is wanted. 
Turn it out before serving, and send hot plates 
to table with it, and the foUolving sauce in a 
tureen: Beat 2 ounces of fresh butter to a 
cream. Add 2 ounces of powdered sugar and 
2 glassfuls of sherry, and mix thoroughly. Put 
the mixture into a small saucepan, and stir 
gently until it boils. Serve immediately. Time, 
six or eight hours to set the pudding, if it is 
not put upon ice. 

Christmas Plum Pudding 

Shred finely half a pound of beef suet with a 
little flour to prevent it sticking; add a pinch 
of salt, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, 
a quarter of a pound of sultanas; half a pound 
of currants, half a pound of bread crumbs, 2 
ounces of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 6 
sweet and 6 bitter almonds, blanched and shred 
finely, half a nutmeg grated, 2 ounces of candied 
lemon and citron, and the rind of half a lemon 
finely chopped. Mix thoroughly, then add 4 



934 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

well-beaten eggs and a wineglassful of brandy. 
Let these stand for five or six hours, thdn add 
a cupful of milk, and boil for three hours. Suffi- 
cient for four or five persons. 

Steamed Graham Pudding 

1 cupful thick sour milk, 1/2 cupful Porto Rico 
molasses, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 1/2 
teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful soda in milk, 1 
cupful seeded raisins, % cupful currants, 1 cup- 
ful fine bread crumbs, 2 cupfuls Graham flour. 
Mix to light batter, steam in buttered mould 
8 hours ; bake ; garnish with maple hard sauce. 

BAKED PUDDINGS 

Boston Delight 

2 cupfuls crumbled Boston brown bread, V^^ 
teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs, beaten, 1 quart milk, 
2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, cupful mixed 
dried fruit — raisins, currants, citron, figs. Mix 
to smooth batter; bake firm in centre; garnish 
with lemons, whipped cream, maraschino cher- 
ries; serve with lemon sauce. 

Cracker Raisin Pudding 

Scald 5 cupfuls milk; pour over 1% cupfuls 
rolled cracker crumbs ; add % cupful qold but- 
ter, % cupful molasses, % teaspoonful each of 
salt and cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful mace, 1 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 935 



pound seeded raisins, 6 eggs beaten with 1 cup- 
ful brown sugar; bake four hours; whipped 
cream garnish. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 

Pare and core enough apples to fill dish ; put 
into each apple a bit of lemon peel. Soak % 
pt. tapioca in 1 qt. lukewarm water 1 hour, 
add a little salt and sugar ; flavor with lemon ; 
pour over apples. Bake until apples are tender. 
Serve cold with cream and sugar. 

Date Pudding 

y2 pound of dates, whites of 6 eggs, 5 table- 
spoonfuls of pulverized sugar. Take the stones 
out of the dates, beat the eggs very stiff, add 
the sugar and fold in the dates. Put into a 
pudding-dish, and bake in a quick oven long 
enough to brown the top. Serve with whipped 
cream or custard. Any fruit may be substi- 
tuted for dates. 

Rice Pudding— No. 1 

% cupful rice, 1% pints milk, % cupful 
sugar, large pinch salt, 1 tablespoonful lemon 
rind chopped fine. Put rice (washed and 
picked), sugar, salt, and milk iu quart pudding- 
dish ; bake in moderate oven two hours, stirring 
frequently first hour and a half; then permit 
it to finish cooking with light-colored crust, dis- 
turbing it no more. Eat cold with cream. 



936 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

^Rice Pudding— No. 2 

% cupful rice, % pint milk, 4 apples, peeled, 
cored, and stewed; Va cupful sugar, 4 eggs. 
Boil rice in milk until reduced to pulp; beat 
well with apple sauce and sugar for ten min- 
utes, then set aside to cool; then carefully mix 
in whites of eggs, whipped to stiff froth. 

Orange Pudding 

2 eggs, 1 cupful milk, 1 tablespoonful corn 
starch, 1^ cupfuls sugar. 

Make a custard with the milk, corn starch, 
sugar and yolks of the eggs, and when cool pour 
over 2 oranges sliced in the bottom of a dish. 
Beat the whites, add ^cupful sugar and put 
over the pudding, then slice 1 orange over this, 
and set in oven to brown. 

Huckleberry, Blackberry, or Cherry 
Pudding 

Into 1 egg lightly beaten pour 1 cupful mo- 
lasses, add 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a 
little water, then thicken with 2% cupfuls flour, 
add 1 pint huckleberries, dusted with flour, bake 
about one hour, and serve with foaming sauce. 

This recipe will also do for blackberry, rasp- 
berry, or cherry pudding. 

Chocolate Pudding 

10 tableepoonfuls bread crumbs, 6 tablespooa- 
fuls grated chocolate, 1 pint milk, 1 pint i5Ugar, 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 937 



yolks of 6 eggs, whites of 2 eggs. Boil the 
bread crumbs and chocolate in the milk till it 
begins to thicken, stirring it meantime. Then 
cool, stir in the yolks and the whites, which have 
previously been beaten well with the sugar. 
Bake for one-half hour. Cover with meringue 
made of sugar and the whites of 4 eggs. Brown 
in the oven. 

Apple Meringue 

Pare and slice 8 sour apples. Place them in a 
pudding-dish and cover with 'a liberal amount of 
sugar, adding the grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon. Bake until quite soft. Have the whites 
of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, add 1 cupful of 
sugar. Spread over the top of the apples, and 
brown. 

Baked Sago Pudding 

Wash 3 tablespoonfuls of sago, and soak it 

for one hour in i^ pint of cold water. Meantime 

put 1% pints of nulk into a saucepan with a 

little lemon rind, 1 inch of stick cinnamon, or 1 

ounce of blanched and pdujided almonds, and let 

it simmer gently till it is pleasantly flavored. 

Strain and sweeten ; mix with it the soaked sago 

drained from the water, and simmer gently, 

atirring frequently tUl the preparation is thick. 

Let it cool, then add 2 well-beaten eggs, and a 

slice of fresh butter, and beat it again for a few 
6o 



938 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DES5ERTS 

minutes. Pour it into a buttered pie-dish, and 
bake until the surface is brightly browned. 
Serve with wine sauce. If a superior pudding 
is required, 4 eggs niay be used instead of 2, 
and the dish m^y be lined with puff paste before 
the sago is poured into it. Time to bake the 
pudding from three-quarters of an hour to an 
hour. Farina and tapioca are also made as the 
above. 

Bread Custard Puddingr 
Make a custard according to size of pudding 
required. 1 pint of custard will fill a mediiun- 
sized dish. Cut slices of thin bread and but- 
ter, to suit the dish, and over each layer throw 
currants, sugar, and finely cut candied lemon, 
and a little nutmeg. Pour the custard over by 
degrees so that the bread, may be well satu- 
rated, and let it stand an hour before putting it 
in^o the oven. Just before it is put in, throw 
over the last of the custard, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for half an hour. 

Brown Bread Pudding 

Take equal quantities of well-washed cur- 
rants, brown bread crumbs, and shred suet — 
% pound of each — add 6 ounces of sugar, % 
glass of brandy, and the same quantity of 
cream ; mix all together, with 6 eggs well beaten, 
leaving out the whites of 2. Bake in a moderate 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 939 



oven for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce 
and sugar over the top. 

Jewish Almond Pudding 

Put 4 ounces of sweet almonds, and 3 bitter 
ones, into a saucepan of cold water. Heat it 
gradually, and when too hot to bear the fingers, 
put the almonds into a basin, slip off the skins, 
and throw them at once into cold water. Dry 
them well, and pound them in a mortar until 
they form a smooth paste ; drop 1 teaspoonful of 
cold water over them two or three times to pre- 
vent them oiling. Mix with them 4 oimces of 
powdered loaf sugar, and add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of rose-water, together with the yolks of 4, and 
the whites of 3, eggs well beaten. Stir briskly 
for ten minutes, pour into a well-oiled mould, 
and bake in a quick oven. Turn the pudding out 
of the dish before serving, and pour round it a 
thick syrup, flavored with the rind and juice of 
1 lemon, and colored with cochineal. Time, half 
an hour to bake. Stewed apples may be added 
with the almond when making the batter. 

Baked Batter Pudding 

Separate the yolks from the whites of 4 eggs, 
beat them well separately, and throw them in a 
basin together; then mix them very gradually 
with 6 or 8 ounces of flour, and a pinch or 
two of salt. Make the batter of the proper con- 



940 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



sistency by adding little more than 1 pint of 
good milk. Bake in a buttered disk for three- 
quarters of an hour in a quick oven. This pud- 
ding is much improved by careful mixing. If 
the eggs, flour, and milk are not well blended to- 
gether the pudding is often a failure. 

Apple or Other Fruit Souffle 

Keduoe half a doaea apples to a pwlp, sweeten, 
and flavor them nioely, and place them in the 
middle of a large dish. When cool, poiar over 
them a good Wstard, made with % pint of 
cream, the yolks of 4 eggs, sugar, and flavoring. 
"Whisk the whites to a solid froth, place it in 
rook-like pieces over the onstaid, aad sift 1 des- 
sertspoonful of white sugar over it. Put it in 
the oven till the icing is lightly browned, and 
serve cold. 

Arrowroot Souffle 

Mix 4 tablespoonfuls of arrowroot with 1 cup- 
ful of milk. Stir it gradually into 1 pint of boil- 
ing milk, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar on 
which the rind of 1 lemon has been rubbed. Let 
it boil for a quarter of an hoiar, stirring all the 
time. Take it from the fire and let it coal, then 
stiff in the well-heaten yolks of 6 eggs.. Well oil 
a plaiffl tin mould, and when everything is ready, 
whisk the whites to a solid froth, and add them 
to the re&t. Fill the tin three parts full, and 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 941 

bake for t"wenty minutes in a good oven. Serve 
immediately. 

Lemon Souffle 

Mix 14 of a pound of flour very smoothly -with 
IV2 pints of milk; add i^ of a pound of sugar, 
which has been well rubbed upon the rind of 3 
fresh lemons, and flavor with vanilla or other ex- 
tracts, and 14 of a pound of butter, and boil 
gently until the mixture is thick and smooth. 
Pour it out and stir it until it is nearly cold, then 
add the yolks of 6 eggs, well beaten. Last of all, 
whisk the whites of 9 eggs to a firm foam, and 
add them, with the strained juice of 2 lemons, to 
the rest. Butter a souflle-mould thickly, half fill 
it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate 
oven. If it is necessary to fill the mould more 
than half, tie a band of well-buttered white 
paper round the top, to prevent the contents 
running over. Serve the souffle the moment it 
comes out of the oven, or its appearance will be 
spoilt. Time to bake, from thirty to forty min- 
utes. 

Ground Rice Souffle 

Mix 3 ounces of ground rice smoothly with % 
pint of new milk or cream. Put them into a 
saucepan, with 2 ounces of fresh butter, % of 
a pound of sugar, a pinch of salt, and the thin 
rind of 1 lemon, % inch of cinnamon, or any fla- 
voring that may be preferred. Stir quickly 



942 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



over tlie fire until the milk boils, pour it into a 
basin, and when cool add the yolks of 3 eggs, 
well beaten. Butter a plain mould — and it is 
well to tie round it a band of white paper, also 
well buttered, which should be a good deal 
higher than the mould itself, so that if the bat- 
ter rises much in the oven, it may not fall over 
the sides. Whisk the whites of 5 eggs to a firm 
froth, and add them the last thing. Beat the 
mixture fully ten minutes after the whites are 
added. Bake in a quick oven, and serve as soon 
as the dish is taken from it. Have a hot napkin 
ready to pin round the dish in which the soufle 
was baked, and let a heated salamander, or red- 
hot shovel, be held over it, in its passage from 
the kitchen to the dining-room. Time to bake, 
twenty minutes. 

Caramel Pudding 

% pint brown sugar, % pint water, i/4 box 
gelatine, whites of 4 eggs, % teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Soak gelatine in 1 gill of cold water for 
2 hours. Put sugar and other gill of water in a 
saucepan. Set on the fire and boil until it be- 
comes a thick syrup.. Add gelatine and vanilla 
and heat again to a boiling point. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth. Pour hot syrup over 
eggs, beating constantly until cold. Pour into 
moulds to cool. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS '43 



Custard Sauce 

3 gills milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls 

sugar, little salt, and little vanilla. Boil for a 

minute or two. 

Heavenly Hash 

Strain the juice from 1 pint of cherries or red 
raspberries and place in a sauce dish with al- 
ternate layers of sliced bananas, sprinkling 
over each layer 1 tablespoonful of pulverized 
sugar. Make a custard with 1 pint of milk, 3 
eggs, saving out the whites of 2; 1/2 cupful of 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, and a 
pinch of salt. When cold pour custard over 
fruit, covering with the whites well beaten with 
Yz cupful of sugar. 

Tapioca Custard 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls fine tapioc; in double 
boiler with 1 pint milk, cook and stir till tapi- 
oca is transparent. Add yolks of 2 eggs, beaten 
with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, and pinch salt; stir 
till thickened. Add whites whipped to stiff 
froth, Stir lightly three minutes ; take from fire ; 
add flavoring when cooled. If pearl or lump 
tapioca is used, it must be soaked in cold water 
for several hours before cooking. 

Snow Pudding 

Soak Vz box of gelatine in 1/2 cupful cold 
water, then poiir on 11/2 cupfuls boiling water; 



944 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



add juice of 1 lemon and 1 cupful sugar, and set 
in cold water. When nearly cold beat until it 
thickens, and then add the stifSy beaten whites 
of 3 eggs. Beat all together, put in moulds and 
set on ice. Make custard with the yolks of the 
eggs, 1 pint milk, large spoonful each of sugar 
and corn starch. Flavor with vanilla, and serve 
very cold, pouring custard around the snow. 

Apple Snow— No. 1 

Core, quarter, and steam 3 large sour apples. 
Eub through sieve, cool; whip whites 3 eggs to 
very stiff froth with % cupful powdered sugar, 
gradually add apple, and whip long time till 
white and stiff. Pile in dish; garnish with dots 
currant jelly. 

Snow Eggs 

To whites 5 eggs add pinch salt, and whip to 
very stiff froth; gradually add 1 tablespoonful 
powdered sugar and few drops flavoring. 
Scald 1 quart milk in large pan. Shape whites 
in tablespoon, drop a few at a time in hot milk. 
Turn until cooked. Lift out with skimmer, lay 
on glass dish. When all are cooked, make cus- 
tard with egg yolks, milk, and 3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, and serve with egg^. 

Charlotte Russe 

Mix 1 pint rich cream, % cupful powdered 
sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Have very cold 



ICES, PASTRiT, AND OTHER DESSERTS 945 

and wMp to stiff froth, turning under cream 
when it first rises. Line dish with sponge cake 
or lady fingers, fill with whipped cream. 

Boiled Custard Pudding 

l^ake 1 pint of custard with % pint of milk, 
and 3 eggs. Flavor and sweeten it liberally, 
or the pudding will be insipid. Put it into a 
buttered basin which it will quite fill, cover it 
with a piece of buttered paper, then steam it 
gently until done. 

Keep moving it about in the saucepan for the 
first few minutes, that it may be well mixed. It 
must not cease boiling after it is once put in. 
Serve with wine sauce or a little jam. A large 
pudding may be made with very little more ex- 
pense by adding another egg, another half -pint 
of milk, and a tablespoonful of flour. Time, 
forty minutes to steam. Sufficient for four per- 
sons. 

Baked Custard Pudding 

Take as many eggs as will, when level, cover 
the bottom of the dish in which you intend to 
bake the custard. Break each one into a sepa- 
rate cup before it is mixed with the rest, to in- 
sure the quality of the eggs. Beat them a min- 
ute or two, but not too much, or the custard will 
be w:atery. Fill the dish with milk, sweeten lib- 
erally, .and add a pinch of salt. Flavor with 



946 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



brandy, lemon, almond, vanilla, rose-water, or- 
ange-water, or any other flavoring. Stir all to- 
gether. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and 
bake in a moderate oven. As soon as the cus 
lard is set it is done enough. Time to bake, 
about half an hour. 

Floating Island 

Into % of a pint of cream put sugar to make 
it very sweet, and the juice and rind of 1 lemon, 
grated. Beat it for ten minutes. Cut French 
rolls into thin slices, and lay them on a round 
dish on the top of the cream. On this put a 
layer of apricot or currant jam, and some more 
slices of roll.' Pile up on this, very high, a whip 
made of damson jam, and the whites of 4 eggs. 
It should be rough to imitate a rock. Garnish 
with fruit or sweetmeats. 

Frozen Custard 

Scald 2 quarts rich milk ; add f tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch, moistened in a little cold 
milk ; cook foi: twenty minutes. 

Add 6 beaten eggs, 1 cupful sugar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful lemon and vanilla extract, then freeze. 

Apricot Custard 

Line a pie-dish with a good short crust. 
Spread smoothly at the bottom a layer of apri- 
cot marmalade about an inch in thickness, and 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 947 

pour over it a custard made of 1 pint of n^w 
' milk, 3 eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of ground rice, 
a little sugar, and 4 drops of the essence of 
almonds. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, 
fifteen minutes. 

Taganrok (Russian) 

Add to 2 cupfuls of hot hominy 1 cupful 
sugar, pinch of salt, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 
cupful currants, and raisins, juice, and grated 
rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful Tokay wine, 
stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs ; steam in mould 
lined with angelica, thirty minutes; set on ice; 
cherry garnish. ' 

Frozen Plum Pudding. 

Beat 6 yolks to a cream ; pour oveT 1 cupful 
scalded milk; add extract of cinnamon and a 
cupful of sugar. Cook until mixture coats a 
spoon, then add 4 tablespoonfuls melted choc- 
olate and a pint each of chopped mixed fruit 
and of cream. Freeze, then pack iu a mould 
and bury in ice and salt for two hours. 

. Apple Mange 

Reduce to a pulp a dozen fine apples, or other 
fruit, and sweeten and flavor according to taste. 
When quite cold, pour it into a glass dish, and 
cover it with whipped cream, which will be 
much firmer if made the day be,f ore it is wanted. 
Time to simmer the apples, forty minutes. 



948 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

Strawberry Pudding 

Sprinkle 1 cupful of sugar over 1 qiprt of 
strawberries; mash, and let them stand until 
the sugar is dissolved, stirring occasionally. 
Squeeze the mixture through a square of 
cheesecloth ; there should be about 1 cupful of 
juice. Add boiliag water to make 1 pint of 
liquid and put it on to boil. "Wet 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch in a little cold water and 
stir it into the boiling syrup ; cook ten minutes, 
stirring frequently. Beat the whites of 3 eggs 
stiff and stir into the thickened syrup just be- 
fore removing it from the fire. Turn it into a 
mould which has been wet in cold water, and 
set on ice. To be eaten with whipped cream or 
a custard sauce made of the yolks of the eggs. 

Apple Snow— No. 2 

Eeduce ^ doz. apples to pulp by steaming ; 
press them through a sieve, sweeten and flavor 
,th em. Take the whites of 6 eggs, whisk them for 
some minutes; strew into them 2 tablespooufuls 
of sifted sugar. Beat the pulp to a froth ; then 
mix the two together, and whisk them until they 
look like stiff snow. Pile high in rough pieces 
on a glass dish, stick a sprig of myrtle in the 
middle, and garnish with small pieces of bright- 
colored jelly. Time to beat the snow, three- 
quarters of an hour. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 949 

Swiss Cream 

Cmmble a quarter of a pound of macaroons 
and 2 or 3 penny sponge cakes, or use a mixture 
of macaroons and ratafias. Lay the crumbs in 
a glass dish. Pour over them a glassful of 
sherry, and spread a spoonful or two of jam 
upon them. If a plain dish is required, the 
sherry or the jam, or both, may be omitted. 
Simmer the thin rind of half a lemon, or a little 
piece of vanilla, in half a cupful of milk till it 
is pleasantly flavored. Add a pint of cream 
.and as much sugar as will sweeten it pleasantly. 
Mix a tablespoonful of corn starch smoothly 
with a little cold milk, and add this gradually to 
the rest. Stir the mixture over a gentle fire till it 
boils; poiir it out, and stir it again till it is 
almost cold. Add the juice of a lemon, and 
pour the cream over the cakes in the dish. 
Ornament the top with bright-colored jelly or 
jam, or with strips of angelica. If liked, 2 
tablespoonfuls of arrowroot may be substituted 
for the corn starch, or a tablespoonful of flour 
even may be used. The cream should stand in 
a cool place three or four hours before it is 
wanted. 

Canary Cream 

Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with a 
little sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon. 
When boiling, pour it upon the beaten yolks of 



950 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



3 eggs. Eeturn it to the stewpan, and stir it 
over a slow fire till the eggs thicken, and be 
very careful that it does not curdle. When 
cool, stir in a small glass of sherry or brandy 
to flavor it, and serve in custard glasses. Time, 
twenty minutes. 

Frangipane 
Beat 6 eggs until light ; add to them gradually 
a pint of new milk and 2 small spoonfuls of 
flour. Put the mixture over the fire in a clean 
saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of fine 
sugar, and when close at the boiling point and 
thickish, stir in 2 ounces of crushed ratafias, a 
glass of rum or brandy, some grated lemon 
rind, and 2 ounces of butter, browned sligbtly 
in a clean pan. This delicious, creamy prep- 
aration is an excellent substitute for custard. 
It can be flavored with vanilla, orange-flower, 
or coffee to suit the dish it is wanted for. The 
French use it to fill tartlets or cover fruit tarts. 

Velvet Cream 

Put a pint and a quarter of milk into a sauce- 
pan with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the 
thin rind of half a lemon, and an inch of stick 
cinnamon. Let it simmer till pleasantly fla- 
vored. Put 2 dessertspoonfuls of. corn starch 
into a basin, and mix with it 4 well-beaten eggs. 
Strain the milk when it is cool into the eggs, 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 95J 



and stir the custard over the fire till it begins 
to thicken, but it must not boil. Stir it off the 
fire till it is almost cold, add a few drops of 
vanilla essence, and pour it into a glass dish 
over sponge cakes or ratafias soaked in sherry 
and covered with jam. Let it stand in a cool 
situation three or four hours before serving. 
Time, about twenty minutes to simmer the milk 
with the flavoring. 

Fruit Charlotte 

Line a plain round mould with finger biscuits, 

carefully put them close together, and form a 

round or star at the bottom of the mould. Take 

a pint of cream and whisk it well with a little 

sugar and half an ounce of gelatine dissolved 

in a little water. Mix with it half a pint of 

apple, apricot, strawberry, or any other jam or 

stewed fruit, and set it to freeze. Cover it with 

a piece' of Savoy cake the shape of the mould, 

and be careful to fit it exactly, so that when it 

is turned out it will not be likely to break. Let 

it remain in the ice until it is Sufficiently frozen. 

Turn out and serve. If fruit is not at hand the 

cream may be flavored with coffee, burnt 

almond, vanilla, etc. Time to freeze, about an 

houi. 

Honeycomb Cream 

Strain and sweeten liberally the juice of 2 

large lemons and a Seville orange. Put it 



952 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS. 

into a glass dish. Boil a pint and a half of 
thick cream. Pour it into a heated teapot. 
Put the glass dish containing the juice on the 
ground, and pour the cream on it very slowly, 
and from a good height, so as to froth it well. 
Let it stand until cold. It should be well stirred 
at table before serving. This is the old- 
fashioned way of preparing honeycomb cream, 
but a better plan is to whisk the white of an 
egg and a little sugar with the cream; then, as 
the froth rises, to take it off and lay it upon 
the lemon juice until all the cream is used. 
Honeycomb cream should be made the day be- 
fore it is wanted, and put at once into the dish 
in which it is to remain. Time, an hour or 
more to prepare. 

Chocolate Cream 

Grate 1 ounce of the best chocolate and 2 
ounces of sugar into a pint of thick cream; boil 
it, stirring it all the time, until quite smooth; 
then add, when cool, the whites of 4 eggs beaten 
to a solid froth. Half fill the glasses, and whip 
the remainder into a froth to put at the top. 
Time, twenty minutes. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

The white of 1 egg should be allowed for 
every pint of good, thick cream. If this cannot 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 953 



be procured, more eggs must be used. A good- 
looking dish may be made by boiling a quart 
of milk down to a pint, and mixing witb it tbe 
whites of 3 eggs. Sweeten -Snd flavor the cream 
before using it. For a plain whipped cream, 
this is done by rubbing the rind of a lemon upon 
3 ounces of loaf sugar, and pounding it in a 
mortar, then mixing it with a glass of sherry 
or half a glass of brandy, the white of an egg 
beaten to a solid froth, and afterwards with 
the cream. Whip it to a froth with a scrupu- 
lously clean osier whisk. As it rises, take it off 
by tablespoonfuls, and put it on a sieve to drain. 
It is a good plan to whip the cream the day 
before it is wanted, as it is so much firmer. It 
should be made in a cool place, and kept in the 
same. It may be served in a variety of ways, 
either in glasses or in a glass dish, when it 
should be prettily garnished, or surrounded by 
sponge cake, macaroons, or ratafias. A apftnge 
cake may be made in the shape of -€ hollow 
cylinder, and filled with as much whipped cream 
as it will hold. Its appearance is improved by 
coloring part of it before whipping it. Dif- 
ferent fruit syrups are used for coloring and 
flavoring. Many persons dissolve a. teaspoon- 
ful of powdered gum arable in a little orange- 
flower water, and add this to the cream. It 

keeps the froth firmer. Clotted cream may be 
6i 



954 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

simply whipped by whisking it with a wire 
whisk until it thickens. If beaten too long it 
will turn to batter. 

Lttfnon Whip 
Juice of 4 lemons, 2 cupfuls sugar, % box 
of gelatine dissolved in % cupful of water, 
whites of 4 eggs, i/4 pound candied cherries, 1 
pint of boiling water. Mix water, juice, sugar, 
and dissolved gelatine together; set on ice to 
cool. When beginning to harden add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and 
whip together thoroughly. Line mould with 
the cherries, and fill with mixture. 

Lemon Puff 

10 eggs, yolks mixed thoroughly with juice of 
2 lemons and grated rinds, 1 cupful of sugar, 3 
tablespoonfuls of water. Place in double 
boiler, cook until smooth and very thick. Then 
add^he whites, beaten very stiff, and stir the 
wholetegether, but lightly. This will serve ten 
persons. 

Junket 
An old-fashioned delicacy revived 

Put 1 pint of cream and 1 pint of milk in 
double boiler (all cream may be used or all 
milk) ; add % cupful of sugar, pinch of salt. 
When just lukewarm add 1 junket tablet dis- 
solved in 1 tablespoonful of cold water. Stir 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 955 

thoroughly and pour at once into sherbet 
glasses, or dainty cups from which it may be 
eaten. Let stand about ten minutes in warm 
room till it sets, then put where it will become 
cold. You cannot use sterilized nor scalded 
milk. This is a very dainty, wholesome des- 
sert, and may be made very ornamental by 
dropping a spoonful of dry whipped cream on 
each glass and dotting it with candied cherries, 
or it may be colored a delicate rose by adding 
a drop of fruit coloring. 

Russian Cream 

Cover l^ box of gelatine with cold water 
and soak one hour. Put 1 quart of milk 
into double boiler, and when boiling add the 
gelatine, 1 cupful sugar beaten with the yolks 
of 4 eggs, and a little salt ; cook until it begins 
to curdle ; then cool, and stir into it the beaten 
whites of 4 eggs and a teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Put into cups and serve cold with whipped 
cream. When turned out of the cups, the jelly 
should be 1 inch thick on top. 

Bavarian Cream 

1/2 box of gelatine (not acid); 1 quart new 
milk, 4 eggs, % cupful sugar, flavoring ex- 
tract. Soak the gelatine in a little warm water 
while the milk is coming to the boiling-point in 
a double boiler. Add the gelatine to the milk 



956 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

just before it boils, and stir thoroughly. Add 
the yolks of the eggs, which have been beaten 
very light, with the sugar. Mix well; take 
from the fire and set it to cool. When quite 
cool add the whites of the eggs, beaten very 
stiff, and the flavoring. Pour it into jelly 
glasses which have been rinsed in cold water, 
and set in the ice-box. This will make 8 glasses. 
It is better to make it several hours before 
using. "When cold turn out and serve with 
whipped cream. Shredded fruit is frequently 
added. 

Jellyfish Cream 

Fill ramekins with a pink Bavarian cream, 
chopped nuts, and fruit; when firm, unmould 
lemon jelly from small cups on top of each; 
garnish with moss parsley. Serve on small 
saucers with pink paper doily between cup and 
saucer. 

Cherry Cream 

Cook 2 heaping teaspoonfuls prepared tap- 
ioca in 1 pint of canned cherry juice for fifteen 
minutes; add sugar if needed; remove and, 
whUe hot, fold in stiffly beaten white of 1 egg ; 
pour in wet moulds ; serve ice-cold with whip- 
ped cream and fresh cherries. 



IC ES, PASTRY, AMP OTHER DESSERTS 957 

PUDDING SAUCES 

Currant-Jelly Sauce 

Cream 2 tablespoonfuls butter; add grad- 
ually % cupful stiff currant jelly slightly soft- 
ened by standing in warm room. Beat well, 
and serve very cold. 

Cream Sauce 

Bring V3 pint cream slowly to boil; set in 
stewpan boiling water; when it reaches' boiling- 
point add sugar, then pour slowly on whipped 
whites of 2 eggs in bowl ; add 1 teaspoonful ex- 
tract vanilla, and use. 

Custard Sauce 

1 pint milk, yolks 4 eggs, i/^ cupful sugar. 
Set over 'fire and stir until thick. 

Duchesse Sauce 

Boil 2 ounces grated chocolate in i/^ pint milk 
five minutes ; pour onto 2 yolks of eggs beaten 
with % gill cream and % cupful sugar; strain; 
return to fire, stir until thick as honey ; remove, 
and add 1 teaspoonful extract vanilla. 

Foaming Sauce 

Whip white 1 egg and % cupful powdered 
sugar to a stiff broth. Whip separately 1 cup- 
ful thick cream to a solid froth. Mix lightly 
together, flavor with 1 tablespoonful sherry. 



958 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DEfSERTS 



Hard Sauce 

Beat 1 cupful sugar and % cupful butter to 
white cream ; add whites 2 eggs ; beat few min- 
utes longer; add tablespoonful brandy and tea- 
spoonful extract nutmeg; put on ice until 

needed, 

Golden Sauce 

Make hard sauce as above without egg whites 

or flavoring. Beat in gradually the yolks of 2 

raw eggs, and add -flavoring to suit. The color 

may be accentuated by the addition of a little. 

yellow color-paste. 

Hygienic Cream Sauce 

i/o pint milk, % pint cream, yolk 1 egg, 1 
tablespoonful buckwheat dissolved in little 
milk, large pinch salt. Bring milk and cream 
to boil in thick, well-lined saucepan; add to it 
buckwheat moistened in milk, stirring rapidly to 
prevent lumping ; allow it to boil five minutes ; 
remove from fire ; beat in the yolk of egg diluted 
with a tablespoonful milk. 

Molasses Sauce 

Boil together ten minutes 1 cupful molasses, 
1 tablespoonful Aonegar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 
pinch salt. F!or apple puddings. 

Prune Sauce for Puddings 

Wash a quarter of a pound of prunes, and 
simmer them in as much water as will cover 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 959 

them until they are quite soft. Drain and stone 
them, and blanch the kernels. Put fruit and 
kernels into a stewpan with the liquid in which 
they were boiled, a glassful of wine, the strained 
juice of half a lemon, a small strip of thin 
lemon rind, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, and 
a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Simmer gently 
for ten minutes, then rub the sauce with, the 
bafk of^ a wooden spoon through a coarse sieve. 
If he pulp is too thick, dilute it with a little 
water. Time, one hour. 

Almond Sauce for Puddings 

Boil gently a half of a pint of water and 
half that quantity of new milk. Pour this 
slowly when boiling — stirring all the time — 
upon a dessertspoonful of arrowroot, mixed 
with a little water. Add sugar to taste, the 
beaten yolk of an egg, and enough essence of 
ahnonds to flavor nicely. Serve in a tureen. 
Do not pour the sauce over the pudding, as 
every one may not like the flavor. A little 
brandy may be added. Time, about ten min- 
utes to boil. 

Lemon Sauce for Puddings 

Put the rind and strained juice of a large 
lemon into a bowl. Pour over them a wine- 
glassful of sherry or raisin wine and a wine- 
glassful of water. Let them infuse some time. 



960 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

Mix an ounce of fresh butter and an ounce of 
flour over the fire. When it is slightly browned 
gradually pour in the wine and water; add 2 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and boil gently until 
the mixture is quite smooth. Draw the sauce- 
pan from the fire, let the contents cool a minute ; 
then add the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Stir 
the mixture until it thickens, but it must not be 
allowed to boil after the eggs are added, or it 
will curdle. Time, four or five minutes to boil 
the sauce. Substitute orange for orange sauce. 

Sweet Pudding Sauces 

When any unusual sauce is appropriate to a 
pudding, the recipe is either given in this work 
with it, or a reference is made to it. The most 
usual sauces for puddings are — sweet sauce, 
wine sauce, arrowroot sauces, and fruit sauces. 
They are made as follows : 

Sweet Sauce. — Sweeten a little good melted 
butter, and flavor it with grated lemon rind, 
nutmeg, or powdered cinnamon. Strew a little 
of the grate over the top, and serve in a tureen. 
A. little wine or brandy may be added at pleas- 
ure. This sauce is suitable for almost all ordi- 
nary boiled puddings. 

Wine Sauce. — Boil the thin rind of half a 
lemon or half an orange in a wineglassful of 
water till the flavor is extracted. Take out the 



ICES. PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 961 



rind, and thicken the sauce by stirring into it 
a saltspoonfnl of flour which has been mixed 
smoothly with a piece of butter the size of a 
wabiut. Boil for a minute, then add half a 
tumblerful of any good wine. Let the sauce 
get quite hot without boiling, sweeten, and 
serve. If port is used, the juice of the lemon 
may be added. 

Superior Wine Sauce. — Take half a tumbler- 
ful of light wine (madeira or sherry) and mix 
thoroughly with it the well-beaten yolks of 2 
eggs. Place the bowl in boiling water, add a 
little sugar, and whisk over the fire till it is 
nicely frothed. Serve at once. 

Arrowroot Sauce. — Mix a tablespoonful of 
arrowroot smoothly, with a little cold water. 
Add the third of a pint of water, a glassful of 
wine, the juice of a lemon, and sugar and fla- 
voring. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils. 
This sauce may be varied by omitting the wine, 
and using milk or milk-and-water with the 
arrowroot. The juice of almost any fruit, too, 
may be boiled with the arrowroot. 

Fruit Sauces. — Boil fruit (almost any kind 
may be used) with a little water until it is quite 
soft. Eub it with the back of a wooden spoon 
through a fine sieve. Sweeten to taste, make 
it hot, and pour the sauce over the boiled or 
steamed pudding. 



962 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



ICE CREAMS AND ICES 

Lemon Ice Cream 

Rasp the yellow rind of 2 large fresh lemons 
upon ^ pound of loaf sugar. Powder it, and 
strain over it the juice of 1 lemon. Add 1 quart 
of cream, stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
freeze, and serve. If milk has to be substituted 
for the cream, it may be enriched by the addi- 
tion of the yolks of 4 eggs. It must then be 
stirred over the fire until it is boiling hot, and 
the juice must not be added until the liquor has 
cooled. Time, half an hour to prepare. 

Mille Fruit Ice Cream 

Easp 2 lemons, take the juice of them, 1 glass 
of wine, 1 of grape syrup, 1 pint of thick cream, 
and 8 ounces of powdered sugar. Mix and 
freeze, and when sufficiently congealed add 4 
ounces of preserved fruits, which cut small, and 
mix well with the ice. Let the cream remain in 
the ice until wanted. 

Apricot Ice Cream 

Rub through a fine sieve % pound of apricpt 
jam with 1 pint of cream, the strained juice of 1 
lemon, half a dozen bitter almonds pounded, and 
1 glass of noyau. Freeze twenty-five minutes. 
Or, take a dozen fine ripe apricots. Skin, stone, 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 963 



and pulp them through a sieve with 1 pint of hot 
cream, and 5 or 6 ounces of the finest sifted 
sugar. Mould and freeze. The apricots may be 
scalded before they are pulped. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Pound V2 a stick of vanilla, and mix with it 
1^ pound of sugar. Eub it through a hair sieve, 
and add V^ pint of milk and the yolks of 2 eggs. 
Simmer the mixture over a slow fire for ten 
minutes, stirring briskly all the time. When 
cool, add 1 pint of cream and a small pinch of 
salt. Freeze and mould in the usual way. 
Time, ten minutes to "simmer the custard. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Dissolve 4 pound of the best French choco- 
late in a breakfast-cupful of boiling water, add 
11/^ pints of cream and % pound of sugar, 
boiled to a syrup; strain through silk and put 
into the\ ice pail. Freeze in the usual way. 
' When frozen, add 3 gills of double cream, work 
till smooth, and close the freezer till the ice 
cream is wanted. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of strong clear coffee 

with another of boiling milk, 6 tablespoonfuls 

of finely sifted sugar, and the yolks of 6 eggs. 

Stir the custard over a moderate 'fire until it 



964 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



thickens, then add 1 pint of thick cream. Stir 
it again over the fire till the cream coats the 
spopn, but do not let it boil. Pour it out, when 
cold put it in a mould, and freeze in the usual 
way. 

Bohemian Ice Cream 

The smaller varieties of ripe red fruit are 
used to make this cream; they are pulped 
through a fine sieve, and to 1 pint of the juice 
thus procured, add li/^ ounces of the best isin- 
glass, dissolved in ^^ pint of water. Sweeten to 
taste, and squeeze in lemon juice if liked. Mix 
to this quantity 1 pint of sweetened whipped 
cream, and mould for freezing. These creams, 
where raspberries only are used, may be put 
into glasses, and made without isinglass — in 
the proportions of 1 pound of fruit juice to 1 
pint of whipped cream. Time to freeze, about 
thirty minutes. 

Milanese Ice Cream < 

Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 pint of 
cream and % pound of finely sifted sugar ; add 
the mixture to 2 ounces of Naples biscuits re- 
duced to powder in I/2 Pi^t of milk. Put all 
into a bright stewp^^^) ^-^d stir until it is as thick 
as an ordinary custard, when it may be strained 
through a sieve. Add 1 glass of sherry wine 
when frozen, and then put it into a mould. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 965 

Time, a few minutes to boil the custard. Suffi- 
cient for seven or eight persons. 

French Ice Cream 

Beat well the yolks of 4 eggs; add slowly 1 
pint hot milk, and flavor with vanilla. Beat the 
whites of 4 eggs stiff, adding 1 cupful powdered 
sugar ; add 1 cupful slightly beaten rieh cream, 
fold the custard into the mixture and freeze. 
Keep stirring while freezing. 

Giact Napolitain 

Take 4 ounces of Carolina rice, wash it thor- 
oughly, and put it in a stewpan with 1 pint of 
milk, 1 pint of good cream, a pitteh of salt, and 
2 ounces of sugar. Let the rice swell consider- 
ably in this. When it is tender enough to gpive 
way between the flngeas-s, add 1 stick of good 
vaniUa, and boil it one minute, then let it get 
cold. Whesn cold, take all the cream that re- 
mains liquid, and put it in a double boiler with 
yolks of 6 eggs; if there is not cream enough, 
add to it a little nulk. Stir this on the fire with 
a woodea spoon, and when the eggs are well 
done, and the mixture very thick, let it cool. 
Add to this 1 pint of double whipped cream, and 
after mixing the cream with the custard, taste 
if the latter is sweet enough. Do not make it 
too sweet. Then take some out in a basin, and 



966 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



put it into the rice only, not into the freezing- 
pot ; next mix together the rice and cream, take 
out the vanilla, and put all the rest into the 
freezing-pot; work it well in the ice. When 
quite frozen, put it in ice-moulds that shut on 
both sides; put them in the pail with salt all 
round the ice. At dinner time dip the moulds 
in cold water, push the ice off the moulds, 
and cover the gateau with the cream that you 
have put by in the basin. 

Pistachio Ice Cream 

Blanch and peel y^ of a pound of pistachios, 
and pound them to a smooth paste with a few 
drops of rose-water. Beat the yolks of 6 eggs, 
and pour over them 1% pints of boiling milk; 
add 4 ounces of powdered sugar, and stir the 
custard over the fire until it begins to thicken ; 
then pour it out, and when cool stir into it the 
poundfed pistachios and a teaspoonful of spin- 
ach coloring. Pass the whole through a sieve: 
mould and freeze. If preferred, the pistachio 
paste can be mixed with cream instead of cus- 
tard. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil 
the custard. Sufficient for 1 quart of ice cream. 

Nesselrode Pudding 

Peel two dozen Spanish chestnuts. Put them 
into boiling water for five minutes, then take 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 967 



oft' the second skin, and boil them until tender 
with 1/2 stick of vanilla, and half the thin find 
of a fresh lemon in the water with them. Drain 
them well, and pound them in a mortetr. Press 
them through a hair sieve, and mix with them 
l^ of a pound of powdered sugar, 1 glass of 
maraschino, and y^. pint of thick cream. Dis- 
solve % of an ounce of best isinglass in a little 
water, stir it into y^ pint of hot cream, add the 
chestnuts* etc., and keep stirring the mixture 
gently until it is sufficiently stiff, to hold the 
fruit without letting it fall to the bottom. Work 
in 2 ounces of picked and dried currants, and 
2 ounces of candied citron cut into thin strips. 
Put the mixture into an oiled njould, and set 
in a freezer surrounded by ice and salt, 3 hrs. 
Time, about | hr. to boil the chestnuts. 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 

Stale bread must be used for this cream, 
mif ed with an equal quantity of stale sponge 
cake. Take 2 sponge cakes and 2 thick slices of 
bre^d, grate them into a jug, and pour over 1/2 
pint of milk, and 1 pint of cream, made sweet 
with 14 pound of sugar. Place the jug in a 
saucepan, and stir the contents over the fire 
until it gets thick. A few of the bread crumbs 
sifted very finely may be added with a glass of 
any liquor liked to the mixture when quite cold, 



968 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS *" 

and just before, being put to freeze. Freeze for 
about twenty-five minutes. 

Baked Alaska 

Take block of ice cream, unmould onto a 
square of sponge cake an inch thick. Cover 
with a thick meringue put on artistically, made 
of white of eggs and powdered sugar. Have all 
ready for use before unmoulding ice cream. 
Place on board covered with white paper. 
Brown in hot oven, or with a salam'and'er or 
heated fire shovel. 

Ice-Cream Mask 

Lady fingers laid over mould ; join with royal 
icing put through tube; when firm slip over 
brick of ice cream, placed on dish ready to 
serve. Fruit parfait might be attractively 
served under this mask. 

Caramel ke Cream 

1 pint milk, 1 eupful granulated sugar, i/^ 
Cftrpfol flour (small), 2 eggs, 1 quart cream, or 1 
■pmt cream and 1 pint miik, 1 eupful brown 
sugar burned in spider to a golden brown. Boil 
milk in doubie boiler, mix sugar, flour, and eggs 
together, add to the boiling mUk- Eeturn to 
stove and cook mixture twenty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Add browned sugar to above mix- 
ture, set away to cool, and just before freezing 
add the cream. 



ICES> PASTRY , AND OTHER DESSERTS 969 

Fruit Cream 

% pound stewed apricots, sweetened to taste, 
3 bananas, 3 oranges, 3 lemons, 3 cupfuls sugar, 
3 cupfuls water. Place a sieve over a large 
bOwl, turn in the apricots, and rub all but the 
skin through. Remove the seeds from the ba- 
nanas, and sift the pulp. Pour the water in 
gradually to help the pulp go through the 
strainer. Squeeze the oranges and lemons, and 
strain into the fruit pulp. Add the sugar, and, 
when dissolved, freeze. I/2 piit cream may be 
added before freezing, if desired. The above 
will make 1 gallon. 

Vanilla Parfait 

Boil 1 cupful of sugar with % cupful of water 
until it is a smooth syrup (about ten minutes). 
Beat the yolks of 8 eggs until light, add the 
syrup, and cook over a slow fire, stirring con- 
stantly, until the mixture forms a thick, creamy 
coating oh the spoon. When taken from the fire, 
add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Turn it into a 
bowl and beat with a Dover egg-beater until 
cold. It will then be very light. When en- 
tirely cold add 1 piat of cream whipped very 
stiff. Stir lightly together, and turn the mix- 
ture into a mould. Cover with a thin paper be- 
fore putting on the cover, pack in ice and salt 
for four hours. This makes 1 quart. Chocolate 



970 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

or coffee parf ait is made in a like manner, sub- 
stituting the desired flavoring as for ice cream. 

Biscuit 

1 pint of sweet cream, 24 macaroons, ^/g cup 
pulverized sugar; whip the cream to its utmost 
consistency, then add the macaroons (pulver- 
ized), then the sugar; put in a pail, cover tight, 
and freeze without any stirring. Prepare this 
at noon and it will be ready for tea. DeliciouSt 
" Tried and tested." 

Frozen Fig Pudding 

1 quart milk, 1% tablespoonfuls gelatine, 4 
aggs, 1 cupful sugar, 14 pound English walnuts, 
1/4 pound figs, vanilla to taste. Soak gelatine 
in cold milk. Put milk, eggs, and sugar in 
double boiler and cook to custard. Chop nuts 
and figs very fine and add with gelatine to cus- 
tard. Cool, add flavoring, turn into ice-cream 
freezer and freeze. Can be improved by sub- 
stituting cream for milk. 

Italian Cream 

Stir into 1 pint of thick cream- the rinds of 
2 lemons rubbed off on lumps of sugar, and as 
much more pounded loaf sugar as will sweeten. 
Whiak up the cream with the juice of 1 lemon, 
strain 1 ounce or more of dissolved gelatine to 
it, and beat well together. Flavor with noyau 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 97J 



or curagoa, and fill a mould. Freeze, turn out, 
and garnish with any kind of sweetmeats or 
preserved fruits. Time, half an hour. 

Fish Ice Cream 

This may be either cream or sherbet, colored 
a delicate green and moulded in fish form. The 
fish may be of ice on a foundation of cream. 
Garnish with pale green and pink paper, f rUled 
to represent seaweed. The flavoring for it 
should be either mint or pistachio. Unmould on 
individual cream plates covered with paper 
doilies. 

IVIelon Cream 

Cut sections from a small musk melon so as to 
leave 'every other rib fastened at the top and 
bottom. Eemove seed and membrane, and fill 
the centre with delicately flavored cream, or 
lemon ice. Serve one melon to each person, 
and garnish with grape foliage. 

Chocolate Mousse 

Pack a 3-quart mould in salt ice, using 2 
quarts salt and enough fine ice to pack solidly 
between the can and the tub. Cover and set in 
a cool place. Whip 1 quart cream and drain it 
well. Scrape 1 ounce of chocolate and put in a 
small frying-pan with 3 tablespoonfuls of boil- 



972 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



ing water, place the pan on a hot part of the 
fire and stir until the mixture is smooth and 
glossy. Add % cupful of whipped cream to this, 
stirring well from the bottom of the pan. Then 
add remainder of whipped cream slowly. Wet 
' mould in cold water, put in the mixture, pack 
and cover, sealing cover of mould. Put away 
for three or four hours in ice and salt when it 
will be delicious. ,Coffee flavoring can be sub- 
stituted for the chocolate. 

Surprise Melon 

Mark small melon into Vandykes — so as to 
form a cover — remove seeds and fibre; fill 
cavity with either ice cream or whipped cream ; 
mix with chopped fruit. Eeplace lid, and pin 
bow on top. . . 

Biscuit Glace 

Stir together 3 ounces sugar and 2 yolks of 
eggs, add a little vanilla. Dissolve Va box of 
gelatine, and strain it into the sugar and eggs, 
add 1 pint whipped cream, put into glasses and 
set on ice. (This should be made the day before 
it is served.)- 

fruit Mousse 

Whip 1 pint of cream very stiff, turn it into a 
sieve to drain, so that it will be perfectly dry. 
Mix with it 1 cupful of any fruit pulp, the juice 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 973 

drained off, and the pulp mixed with, enougli 
powdered sugar to make it of the same con- 
sistency as the whipped cream; add a little va- 
nilla, pour into an ice-cream mould, lay a thin 
paper over the cream before putting on the 
cover, and pack in ice for three hours. 

Milk Sherbet 

3 lemons, 2 oranges, rind of 1 orange, 1 pint 
of sugar, 1 quart of milk, or better, milk or 
cream. Put half the sugar with the milk and 
place into the freezer. Turn until it begins to 
get thick, then a-dd the juice and the rest of the 
sugar. 

Orange Sherbet 

1 quart water, 1 pound sugar, 4 oranges, jttice 
of 1 lemon, whites of 3 eggs. Grate the rind of 
oranges and lemon in. a bowl, and add their 
juice. Now make a syrup of the sugar and 
water, to which add 1 tablespoonful of gelatine, 
having been soaked in cold water. When syrup 
is cold pour it on the grated rind and juice and 
strain into freezer and freeze. When half 
frozen beat up the whites of 3 eggs and add to 
the sherbet. Continue freezing until hard. 

Lemon Sherbet 

2 quarts of milk, 11/2 pounds of sugar, juice 
of 6 lemons. Mix sugar and milk together ; put 



974 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



in freezer, and when partly frozen add juice of 
lemons and freeze like ice cream. The grated 
rind and juice of 2 oranges may be added to 
the above if desired. 

Biscuit Tortoni 

Put the yolks of 6 eggs into a copper basin, 
add the following : 2 ounces of powdered sugar, 
a wineglassful of maraschino, and 1 tablespoon- 
ful of kirsch. Beat all well together. Place 
on stove, stir briskly for five minutes. Eemove 
basin into a pan of cracked ice or ice water, and 
stir briskly for a few minutes more. Add 1 
part of whipped cream flavored with vanilla. 
Let mixture stand for ten minutes; pour into 
paper cases, cover with powdered macaroon 
crumbs, and freeze, by putting a grating or 
pan in tub filled with ice and salt — if the regular 
glace freezing-box is not obtainable. Time, 
one and a half hours. 

Water Ices 

Water ices are made of the juices of ripe 
fruits mixed with syrup and frozen ; and it must 
be remembered that if the juices are sweetened 
excessively they will not freeze. It is there- 
fore necessary to test them with an instrument 
called a saccharometer. To do this, put the 
mixture prepared for freezing in a tumbler, 
place the saccharometer gently in it: if it is 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 975 

mixed correctly for freezing with powder it will 
sink to the highest red mark ; for freezing with 
ice and salt to the lowest red mark. To make 
it" sink, add water to the mixture; to make it 
rise, add syrup. These remarks apply also to 
ice creams, ice puddings, and all drinks which 
are to be frozen. For water ices clarified sugar 
should be used ; and this may be made by boiling 
for ten minuted, and skimming thoroughly, a 
quart of water with 3 pounds of sugar and % 
the white of an egg well whisked. Having pre- 
pared the mixture and also ascertained its 
strength, put it into an ice-pot. Place it in the 
ice-pail, and surround it with ice which has been 
broken almost to powder and mixed with salt 
and a little saltpetre. Work the freezer rapidly 
for ten minutes ; then remoye the ice from the 
sides of the freezer with the ice-spattle, and 
work it again till it is stiff and smooth. Put it 
into the mould, and leave it in ice mixed with 
salt and saltpetre till it is to be served. To 
turn it out, wipe it with a cloth, dip it in cold 
water for a minute, and wipe it dry ; lift off the 
ends of the mould, and with the fingers push 
the ice upon its dish. 

Almond and Orange Ice 

Blanch and pound 1 ounce of sweet almonds 
with a little orange-flower water to prevent 



976 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

them oiling. Put them into a saucepan with 1 
pint of cream and the yolks of 3 eggs, well 
beaten. Stir constantly till the egg thickens; 
then pour it out, let it cool, put it into the freez- 
ing-pot, and work the handle until it is suffi- 
ciently frozen. Put half a pound of loaf sugar 
and a cupful of water into an enamelled sauce- 
pan, with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff 
froth, and the thin rind of an" orange. Put it 
on the fire and bring it to a syrup, then add to 
it ^ three-quarters of a pint of orange- juice. 
Strain this and freeze it like the almond cream. 
Put a piece of cardboard into the mould, divid- 
ing it in two. Place the almond ice on one side 
and the orange ice on the other. Remove the 
cardboard, close the mould, and let it remain in 
the ice until wanted. Time, half an hour to 
freeze. Sufficient for a quart of ice. 

Strawberry Sherbet 

1 pint of crushed strawberries ; 1 pint water ; 
1 pint sugar ; juice of 2 lemons. Freeze. Any 
fruit may be substituted for strawberries. 

Lemon Ice 

Take the juice of 4 lemons, add 3 pints of thin 
syrup made with about 1 pint of sugar. Into 
every quart, when it begins to freeze, stir the 
whites of 2 eggs, beaten very light With a little 
powdered sugar. This will make it smooth. 



__ ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 977 

Any kind of water ice may be made by mixing 
•the strained jnice of the fruit — currant, rasp- 
berry, strawberry, etc. — with syrup flavored to 
taste, and add the white of an egg when it 
begins to freeze. 

Sorbet of Kirschenwasser 

Make some ice as follows: Mix thoroughly 
a pint of syrup at 35°, and a pint of chablis. 
Strain the mixture through silk into a freezing- 
pan, and freeze in the usual way. When frozen, 
flavor it with 3 tablespoonfuls of kirschen- 
wasser. Put the sorbet into glasses, and serve 
it at dinner with the roasts. 

Iced Roman Punch 

Put 2 pounds of finely powdered sugar into a 
bowl, and strain over it the juice of 10 lemons 
and 2 sweet oranges. Add the thin rind of a 
lemon and an orange, and let the infusion 
remain for one hour. Strain the syrup through 
muslin, add gradually the whites of 10 eggs 
beaten to a firm froth, and freeze the punch in 
the usual way, being careful to work it vigor- 
ously with the spattle while it is being frozen. 
A few minutes before serving mix together a 
pint of old white Jamaica rum, half a pint of 
green tea, half a pint of brandy, and a bottle of 
champagne. Add the ice, and stir briskly till 
it dissolves. A pint of pineapple syrup may 



978 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

be added or not. This punch should be thick 
and creamy in appearance. If it is too thiclc 
to be poured into glasses, it should be, thinned 
with a little more champagne. Iced Eoman 
punch should be handed round in high glasses 
between the first and second courses. 

Sorbet of Rum 

Make the ice as before, but before squeezing 
mix With the sorbet a quarter of a pint of 
strained lemon juice. When frozen, flavor with 
3 tablespoonfuls of fine old Jamaica rum, and 
serve it in glasses with the roasts. 

Punch Lalla Rookh 

Freeze the French ice cream to the consist- 
ency of a thick frozen cream, but not quite 
solid. Beat with it a wineglassful of Jamaica 
rum. Serve in glasses. 



CANDIES 

General Directions 

Granulated sugar is preferred in ordinary 
candy-making. 

Cream of tartar should not be added until the 
syrup begins to boil. 

Butter should be put in when the candy is 
almost done. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 979 



The flavoring will be more delicate if added 
just before taking the candy from the fire. 

How to Pull Candy 

Boil the candy until it becomes brittle when 
tried in water; then turn on a buttered platter. 
'WTien cool enough to handle, butter your hands 
well, take up what candy you can easily handle, 
thro-w it over a buttered hook, and pull both 
ends toward you; then clap together and pull 
over the hook again, repeating the process until 
the candy is white and creamy. Flavor and 
color when ready for pulling. Cut into sticks. 

Butter Scotch 

1 cupful of molasses, 1 cupful of butter. 
Boil until the mixture forms a soft ball when 
tried in cold water. 

Bonbons 

Take fresh candied orange rind, or citron. 
Scrape off the sugar that adheres to it ; then cut 
into small squares. Boil some sugar to the con- 
sistency of candy, and with a fork take up the 
squares and dip them singly into the sugar. 
Then place them on a dish rubbed with a very 
small quantity of salad-oil. When quite cold, 
put them into dry tin boxes, with paper be- 
tween each layer. 



980 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

Chocolate Caramels 

1 cupful of sweet milk, 1 cupful of molasses, 
% cupful of sugar, % a cupful of grated choc- 
olate, a piece of butter the size of an egg. 

Let it boil until thick, and stir constantly. 
Turn it out on buttered plates, and mark it in 
squares when it begins to stiffen, so that it will 
break readily when cold. 

Cream Caramels 

2 cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful of milk or cream; 
flavor with vanilla to taste. 

Cook sugar and milk until the mixture forms 
a soft ball in cold water. Take from the fire, 
add the vanilla, and beat until creamy. Set to 
cool and cut in squares. 

Lemon and Peppermint Drops 

Take the desired quantity of granulated 
sugar; add a very little water, just enough to 
make with the sugar a stiff paste. 2 ounces of 
water to a pound of sugar is about the right 
proportion. Set it over the fire and allow it to 
nearly boil,' stirring it constantly. It must be 
removed from the fire just as soon as the 
bubbles, denoting that the boiling-point is 
reached, begin to rise. 

Let the syrup cool a little, stirring all the 
time; add strong essence of peppermint or 
lemon to suit the taste, and drop on sheets of 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 98J 



smooth white paper. They should be kept in a 
warm place for a few hours to dry. 

Delicious drops may be made by substituting 
the juice of fresh fruits. 

Plain Taffy 

2 cupfuls of white sugar, V2 cupful of water, 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg. 

Flavor with vanilla just before pouring out. 
Boil without stirring until crisp when tried in 
water. When cool enough to handle pull with 
your finger-tips until white. The longer the 
taffy is pulled the better it will be. 

Cream Cocoanut Candy 

Take II/2 pounds of sugar, 1/2 cupful of milk. 
Boil ten minutes, then add 1 grated cocoanut. 
Boil until thick. I*ut on greased pans quite 
thick, and when quite cold cut into strips. 

Cooked Cream Walnuts 

2 cupfuls sugar, V3 cupful water. Boil with- 
out stirring until it will spin a thread; flavor 
with extract vanilla. Set off into dish with 
cold water in; when at blood heat stir briskly 
until white and creamy, then knead and work 
with the hands for several minutes. Have wal- 
nuts shelled; make cream into small round 
cakes with your fingers ; press half a walnut on 



982 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

either side, and drop into sifted granulated 
sugar. For cream dates, take fresh dates, re- 
move stones, and fill centre of dates with this 
same cream. Drop into sugar. 

Uncooked Creamed Nuts 

Mix 1 pound confectioner's sugar, white 1 un- 
beaten egg, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls cold water to a stiff paste. Shape 
in little balls ; press between halved walnut or 
other nut meats. Stoned dates and large 
raisins may be filled with this cream, or it may 
be mixed with chopped nuts, shaped in bars, 
and cut in squares. 

Hickory-Nut Candy 

1 cupful hickory nuts (meats), 2 cupfuls 
sugar, % cupful water. Boil sugar and water, 
without stirring, until thick enough to spin a 
thread; flavor with extract lemon or vanilla. 
Set off into cold water ; stir quickly until white ; 
then stir in nuts; turn into flat tin; when cold 
cut into small squares. 

Velvet Molasses Candy 

Put 1% pounds sugar, % pint molasses, I/2 
pint water, % cupful vinegar, in agate kettle. 
, Heat; when boiling add y2 teaspoonful cream 
tartar; boil till it crisps in cold water. Stir; 
when almost done add 14 pound butter, i/^. tea- 
spoonful soda. Cool in buttered pan and pull. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 983 



Peanut Brittle 

Shell and chop roasted nuts to measure 1 
pint. Put 2 pounds granulated sugar in clean 
i'rying-pan. Stir over slow fire. It will lump, 
then gradually melt. When pale coffee color 
and clear, add nuts and pour quickly on but- 
tered tin sheet. Roll thin as possible. Wher 
cold break up. 

Maple Sugar Caramel 

1 pint of cream, 1 pound maple sugar. Break 
the sugar into small pieces, mix with the cream, 
and cook until it sugars around the edge of 
kettle and j^ardens on ice. Stir constantly. 
Pour into flat tins, cut in squares, when cool. 
Chopped butternuts may be added. 

Fudges 

2 cupfuls brown sugar, 2 cupfuls white sugar 
(or use all white sugar), 1 cupful milk, a piece 
of butter size of a walnut, 2 squares chocolate. 
Still all the time it is boiling. Flavor with va- 
nilla. After you take it off the stove, stir until 
it is almost hard, then pour into buttered pans. 

Penuchi 

2 cupfuls brown sugar, 2 cupfuls white sugar, 
1 cupful milk, a piece of butter size of a wal- 1 
nut. Use either walnuts or hickory nuts, chop- 
ped very fine. Make as fudge. 



984 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

_ . ^ ___ 

Comanche 

Make both the above recipes. Pour the 
brown fudge into a buttered pan, and pour the 
white fudge over it. 

Nougat 

Nougat is a sort of paste made of sugar, 
ahnonds, pistachio nuts, or filberts, and used by 
confectioners for makiag pretty sweet dishes. 
A little practice is necessary before it can be 
well made. The process is as follows : Blanch 
1 pound of Jordan almonds; dry them well in 
a soft cloth, cut them into quarters, put them 
on a baking-sheet in a cool oven, and let them 
remain until quite hot through and lightly 
browned. When they are nearly ready, put 
half a pound of sifted sugar into a copper pa-n 
without any water; move it about with a 
wooden spoon. When it is melted and begins 
to bubble, stir in the hot almonds gently, so as 
not to break them. Have ready the mould 
which is to be used slightly but thoroughly 
oiled, and spread the .paste all over it about a 
quarter of an inch thick. This is the difficult 
part of the operation, as the nougat hardens 
very quickly. The pan in which it is should be 
kept in a warm place to prevent its stiffening 
before the mould is finished. It is a good plan 
to spread out a piece for the bottom of the 



ICE S, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 985 

mould first, and put that in its place ; tlien pieces 
for the sides. Care must be taken, however, to 
make these pieces stick closely together. A cut' 
lemon dipped in oil is a great assistance in 
spreading the paste. When the nougat is 
firmly set, turn it out carefully and serve it on 
a stand filled with whipped cream, or as re- 
quired. Time to boil the sugar, till it is well 
melted. 

Almond Creams 

Blanch and poimd 5 ounces of sweet and 1 
ounce of bitter almonds to a paste ; put to this 
loaf sugar to taste, rubbed with lemon rind and 
pounded. , Rub smoothly a dessertspoonful of 
corn flour into a quart of milk, or, if it is to be 
had, use a pint and a half of cream; add the 
yolks of 3 eggs well beaten. Put the whole, 
when well mixed, into a saucepan ; set it on the 
fire and stir constantly until it thickens ; but on 
no account allow it to boil. The whites of the 
eggs may be whisked, and a little placed on the 
top of each glass. Time, about ten minutes to 
boil the cream. 

Almond Chocolate Drops 

Put a metal mortar in a hot oven till it is well 
heated; throw into it a quarter of a pound of 
cake chocolate broken into small pieces; pouiid 
63 



986 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

it to a paste, then mix with it a quarter of a 
pound of finely sifted sugar. Blanch, slice, and 
dry in a cool oven 2 ounces of sweet almonds; 
roll each slice smoothly in a little of the choc- 
olate paste, and put them upon sheets of writ- 
ing paper till they are cold. Time to prepare, 
about one hour. 

Popcorn Balls 

Boil 1 pint New Orleans molasses and % cup- 
ful of sugar until brittle when dipped into cold 
water. Pour over popcorn; mix together thor- 
oughly and shape into balls, and place on 
greased marble slab or buttered plates. 



CHEESE DISHES 

Welsh Rarebit 

Brillat Savarin, the famous French gourmet, 
gives the following recipe taken from the 
papers of M. TroUet, bailiff in Meudon, in the 
Canton of Berne : ' ' Take as many eggs as you 
wish, according to the number of guests, and 
weigh them ; then take a piece of cheese weigh- 
ing a third of the weight of the eggs, and a 
slice of butter weighing a sixth; beat the eggs 
well up in a saucepan, after which put in the 
butter ^nd cheese, the latter either grated or 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 987 



chopped up very small; place tHe saucepan on 
a good fire, and stir it with a flat spoon until 
the mixture becomes sufficiently thick and soft; 
add a little salt and a large portion of pepper, 
and serve it up in a hot dish. Bring out the 
best wine, and let it go round freely, and won- 
ders will be done." 

Welsh Rarebit-No. 2 

Butter tdast, keep it hot. Into a saucepan 
or chafing-dish put 1 pound young cream cheese 
that has been grated; season with a dasli of 
red pepper and paprika, % teaspoonful pow- 
dered mustard, 1 tablespoonful butter; keep 
stirring. When cheese is nearly dissolved add 
1 wineglassful of good musty or other alfe or 
beer. Put toast in hot soup-plate, pour over 
cheese, and serve with beer or ale. 

Welsh Rarebit without Ale 

1/4 pound grated cheese, 1 ounce butter, % 
cupful of milk, and yolks of 2 raw eggs beaten 
together, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful 
of dry mustard, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and 
a little cayenne. Mix these ingredients to- 
gether in a saucepan and stir over the fire until 
melted perfectly smooth. Have prepared 3 
slices of toast on a hot dish and pour the dress- 
ing over and serve. 



988 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

Golden Buck. — A golden buck is a Welsh, 
rarebit with a poached egg laid on it. 

Yorkshire Rarebit. — A Yorkshire rarebit is a 
golden buck with a slice of broiled bacon laid 
on it. All rarebits may be prepared at the 
table in a chafing-dish, if the grated cheese and 
toast are prepared in the kitchen. 

Cheese Fondue , 

Put into a saucepan 1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 of flour, and stir until they bubble, then add 
a gill of milk or cream. This now makes a very 
thick white sauce, which must be stirred well to 
prevent burning. When smooth stir in 3 ounces 
grated cheese, salt, pinch of paprika, and take 
it from the fire and stir in 2 eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately. Turn into a buttered 
granite dish ; bake from ten to fifteen minutes, 
and serve at once. 

Cheese Souffl6 

Into a cup of hot cream stir the beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs, a half cupful of soft bread crumbs, 
and a cupful of grated American cheese ; season 
with a little salt, a dash each of cayenne and 
mace. Cook three . minutes, or until the egg 
thickens. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites, 
pour into the buttered soufiBe-dish, and bake 
about fifteen minutes in a moderately hot oven. 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 989 

Serve the moment it has reached the right stage 
of puffiness, when it should be slightly browned 
on the top. If one has no cream, milk and a 
tablespoonful of butter can be used. 

Cheese Omelet 

Whisk 2 eggs thoroughly. Allow a pinch of 
salt, the same of pepper, half a teaypoonful of 
finely chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of 
grated Parmesan or other cheese. Mix com- 
pletely. Put a piece of butter the size of an 
egg into the frying-pan. When it is hot, pour 
in the mixture, and stir it with a wooden spoon 
until it begins to set. Discontinue stirring, but 
shake the pan for a minute or so ; when cooked 
fold the omelet in two. When it is lightly 
browned, turn it on a hot dish. It must not be 
overdone. The inside ought to be quite juicy. 
If it is preferred, the cheese may be finely 
grated and strewed over the omelet after it is 
cooked, instead of mixed with it before. Time 
to fry, three minutes. 

Cheese Fritters 

Cheese which has become a little dry will 
answer for this purpose, though, of course, 
fresh cheese will be better. Put 3 ounces of 
cheese in a mortar, with a dessertspoonful of 
finely minced ham, 3 dessertspoonfuls of finely 



990 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 



grated bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of dry mus- 
tard, a piece of butter about the size of a small 
egg, 2 or 3 grains of cayenne, and the yolk of 
an egg well beaten. Pound these ingredients 
together until they are perfectly smooth, then 
form the paste into balls about the size of a 
walnut, flatten to a thickness of half an inch, 
dip them in batter, and fry them until lightly 
browned, and drain. Place them on a napkin, 
and serve as hot as possible. Time to fry, two 
or three minutes. 

Parmesan Cheese and Oysters 

Lay the drained oysters in a well-buttered 
baking-dish, sprinkle over with minced parsley, 
and season with pepper and salt. Pour half a 
glassful of champagne over all, and put a thick 
cover of grated Parmesan cheese. Set in the 
oven until it is well browned. When it is done, 
drain off the fat and serve at once in 'the dish 
it was baked in. 

Cheese Pudding 

Put a breakfast-cupful of milk into a sauce- 
pan, with a piece of butter the size of a large 
egg. Let it remain until the butter is melted, 
then pour it over three-quarters of a pound of 
bread crumbs and half a pound of grated 
cheese ; let these soak for twenty minutes, then 



ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 99 J 

add a pincli of salt and 4 eggs, well beaten. 
Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and 
bake in a quick oven. This is a good way to 
finish up a rather dry crust of cheese. Time 
to bake, three-quarters of an hour; 

Cheese Straws 

Mix 2 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, 2 
ounces of fresh butter, 2 ounces of flour, an 
ounce of Cheddar cheese, and the yolk of an 
egg into a stiff paste. Flavor the mixture with 
cayenne, salt, and a very little pounded mace. 
Roll this out rather thinly, cut it into fingers 
about 4 inches long and 1/2 inch wide, bake thein 
for a few minutes in a quick oven, and serve 
cold. They should be piled on a dish in trans- 
verse rows. 

Cherry Cheese 

Take some sound, ripe, small cherries, 
stoned or not, as preferred; put them into a 
stone jar, cover it closely, and place this in a 
saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer 
gently until the fruit is quite soft. When the 
cherries are sufficiently tender, take them from 
the fire, skin and stone them, and add half a 
poimd of finely sifted sugar to every pound of 
fruit. Add a few of the kernels, blanched. Put 
the mixture into a preserving-pan and boil it, 



992 ICES, PASTRY, AND OTHER DESSERTS 

gently stirring it all the time, until the fruit is 
so dry that it will not adhere to the finger when 
touched, and is quite clear. Press it quickly 
into shallow jars which have been damped with 
brandy. Cover closely, and keep in a dry place. 
Time, two hours. 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES. 

Poached Eggs with Anchovy or Caviare 

Poaclied eggs are prepared in the regular 
way, and will be found very adaptable to the 
chafing-dish. Serve on toast. The toast may 
first be spread with anchovy or caviare, mak- 
ing the dish more of a delicacy. 

Deerfoot Farm Sausages and Bacon 

Put brazier on and when it has become hot 
then put in the sausages and bacon. When 
done on one side turn to the other. These form 
a very good and substantial combination with 
scrambled eggs. Eemove part of the fat and 
add the eggs, no butter being necessary. Bacon 
and sausages folded into an omelet is another 
means of serving them. 

Preparation 

For nearly all chafing-dish recipes it must be 
taken into account that at most two chafing- 
dishes are used; therefore, to facilitate matters, 
all preparations possible must be made in ad- 
vance. Any meats, fish, etc., that have to be 

prepared before to have ready for the final 

993 



994 CHAFING-DISH REOPES 

chafing-dish composition, cook during the day, 
and have them cold, ready for heating and for 
final use. For meat, etc., that is desired to 
brown quickly, remove the undei* water-pan. 

Veal Kidney Saut6 

Take a veal kidney, remove tissue, etc., split. 
Marinate in olive-oil; skewer through the kid- 
ney cross-ways, with steel skewers procured for 
that purpose. Have a tablespoonful of butter 
very hot in the brazier. Put in kidney, and 
brown. Have a tablespoonful of minced onion ; 
add to the kidney ; brown in the butter ; it gives 
a light delicate flavor to the kidneys. Cover, 
and cook for ten minutes. Put on platter. Let 
butter get a rich brown, and pour over the kid- 
neys. Serve on toast, 

Venetian Eggs 

Slice 1 small onion, fry in butter in the chaf- 
ing-dish ; add 1 cup of canned tomatoes ; sea- 
son with 1 teaspoonful of salt, J pepper, and 1 
tablespoonful butter. Cook for ten minutes. • 

Break 6 eggs into a dish and drop into chaf- 
ing-dish. Take large fork and instead of stir- 
ring raise the contents repeatedly from the 
bottom up, so as not to break the yolks. 

Just before serving, add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
grated or Parmesan cheese. Serve on hot 
crackers or toast. 



CHAFING-DISH REpiPES 995 



Tripe a la Creole 

Prepare tripe same as calf's brains, only boil 
until tender. Cut up into small pieces. Pre- 
pare Creole sauce, as for omelet a la Creole. 
To the mixture add tbe tripe, using 1 cupful of 
tomatoes instead of 1 tomato, and 1 teaspoonful 
of beef extract. 

Tripe d la Poulette 

Prepare tripe, then proceed as for creamed 
chicken; adding to either the chicken or the 
tripe a dozen small button mushrooms. Will 
be found a palatable addition. 

Sweetbread Saut6 

Prepare sweetbreads. Put 1 tablespoonful 
butter into chafing-dish; let it get brown color. 
Dip the sweetbread into beaten egg, then bread 
crumbs, and brown in hot butter ; when brown, 
cover, and simmer for ten minutes. Serve with 
slice of lemon and chopped parsley. 

Clams h la Newburg 

Prepare as for Oysters a la Newburg. 

Calf's Brain with Scrambled Egg 

Blanch c'alf's brain, by first washing in ice 
water ; then put into boiling water to which have 
been added a few whole peppers, i/o bay leaf, 1 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil for five minutes ; re- 



996 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



move ; set on ice to cool, remove tissue, and beat 
up, forming a creamy batter. 

Put in the chafing-dish 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; heat. Beat up 4 eggs, add % cupful of 
brains. When butter is hot add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cream to the egg mixture, and scramble 
the eggs. 

Sweetbreads a la Crfeme 

Procure 2 large firm sweetbreads; soak in 
cold water for two hours, keeping the water 
cold by changing several times. Then put in 
chafing-dish, cover with cold water, bring to a 
boil; boil ten minutes. Remove and again put 
in cold water; dry, and remove all fibre and 
tissue. Cut into dice, and proceed as for 
creamed chicken. 

Crab-Meat with Green Peppers 

Have ready flaked crab-meat; be sure that it 
is well cleared of cellular tissue. Put into chaf- 
ing-dish 1 tablespoonful of butter ; heat and put 
in the crab-meat. Season with salt, pepper, 
paprika ; slice in thin rings of sweet green pep- 
per ; cover, and allow to simmer for a few min- 
utes. Add % pint or cupful of rich cream. 
Cook for ten minutes, and serve on toast. 

Little Pigs in Blankets 

Season a few large oysters with salt and pep- 
per. Wrap each in thin slice of best bacon and 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 997 

fasten with wooden toothpick. Have chafing- 
dish very hot, and cook pigs just enough to 
crisp bacon. Serve on toast or platter, gar- 
nishing with parsley. 

Oyster Rarebit 

Clean and remove the hard muscle from % 
pint oysters ; put 1 tablespoonful butter and i/. 
pound cheese into the chafing-dish; mix 1 salt- 
spoonful each of salt, mustard, and a dash of 
cayenne pepper. While this mixture is melting, 
beat 2 eggs, and add to the oyster liquor. Mix 
this gradually with the melted cheese, then add 
the oysters, and serve at once on hot toast. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Take pint measure of diced boiled looster, put 
into brazier or chafing-dish. Add seasoning of 
salt, 1 teaspoonful; cayenne pepper, a dash; '2 
tablespoonfuls butter, or the same of minced 
truffles. Stir together; add wineglassful of ma- 
deira, or sherry wine ; stir, and cook eight min- 
utes. To 2 well-beaten yolks add 1/2 cupful of 
cream; add to the lobster meat, stirring all well 
together, but do not let it boil. Serve on toast 
with little French finger rolls. 

Oysters h la Newburg 

Put into the ehafing-dish 1 quart strained 
oysters; simmer for a few minutes until the 



998 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

edges curl up. Spason with cayenne, 1 salt- 
spoonful salt, and a little celery salt. Add the 
sherry or madeira, and proceed as for lobster 
a la Newburg. 

Broiled Oysters 
Take large oysters; dry on napkin; dip in 
olive-oil; then in bread crumbs. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of butter into chafing-dish. Have very 
hot, and put in the oysters ; fry a golden brown ; 
serve with slice of lemon, and decorate with 
parsley. Serve on toast. 

Creamed Codfish 

Flake cold boiled codfish, or soak for six 
hours salted or prepared codfish. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of butter into a chafing-dish; when 
hot stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour. Stir to a 
paste; add gradually % cupful of milk and 1 
cupful of cream. Bring to a boil ; then add the 
cod or other cold fish. If salt fish is used, omit 
salt in the seasoning ; use pepper or paprika. 
Serve on toast. 

Creamed Lobster 

Is prepared in the same way as creamed 
chicken, omitting celery and green pepper, 
which are usually treated as two distinct 
methods of serving chicken. This is a very 
pleasing dish, and is not so rich as lobster a la 
Newburg. • 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 999 

Terrapin 

Mince or dice 1 terrapin. Season with salt, 
pepper, cayenne. Put into cliafing-disli 3 table- 
spoonfuls butter ; when hot, add the minced ter- 
rapin ; cover with 1 cupful of the stock from the 
boiling of the terrapin. Bring to a boil ; add 1 
minced truffle, a few minced mushrooms. Stir 
all together ; reduce the stock about two-thirds ; 
add 1 wineglassful of sherry or madeira. Dis- 
solve 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot in 1 cupful rich 
cream ; season with nutmeg, and pour over the 
terrapin; bring to a boil. Serve in individual 
copper saucepan, with French finger bowls or 
in deep plate. 

Omelet 

Beat separately 4 eggs. Season yolks with 
salt, pepper, cayenne; add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
milk or cream ; add whites. Have lump of but- 
ter size of walnut in the chafing-dish. Let it 
get a light brown; pour in the eggs; as soon as 
eggs begin to set at bottom, run knife along the 
edge (an artist's palette knife will be found to be 
useful on all such occasions) . If it does not ad- 
here to the bottom, and there is sufficient butter 
there to keep it from doing so, cover so that the 
omelet will cook through. When cooked, fold 
over and slip out on platter, or serve right in 
the chafing-dish. 



tOOO CHAraVG-DISH RECIPES 

French Omelet 

Into a bowl put 4 eggs, season with salt. Into 
chafing-dish put 1 tablespoonful of butter; 
when heated, pour into chafing-dish the well- 
beaten eggs. Take spoon or fork and draw 
from the edge of the dish to the centre, which 
will give the layer-like composition noticed in 
French omelets. Instead of folding in half, fold 
each edge to the centre ; then fold again, or be- 
gin at the edge and roll up, making first fold 
about an inch and a half. Have parsley garni- 
ture for plain omelet, or mince parsley and 
sprinkle the omelet before folding. 

Spanish Omelet 

Put butter in chafing-dish. Have ready 1 
tablespoonful each of chopped onions, green 
pepper, mushrooms, pickles, and 1 tomato, or 
y^ cupful canned tomatoes. Season with salt, 
pepper, paprika, ^ teaspoonful ' ' kitchen bou- 
quet," and 1/2 teaspoonful beef extract, or 
add 1 tablespoonful of cooked minced ham or 
bacon. Stir all together; allow to steam "while 
preparing the omelet, stirring occasionally to 
see that it does not bum. Prepare omelet as in 
previous recipe. When all is ready remove the 
mixture from the chafing-dish into covered 
vegetable dish. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter 
into the chafing-dish; cook the omelet; before 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES JOOI 

folding over add the filling; fold over, and 
serve. 

Cheese Omelet 

Sprinkle omelet witli grated Parmesan 
cheese and fold over. 



Nut Omelets 

Have whatever filling desired ready. If nuts 
are used, stew them first in a little water ; add 
2 tablespoonfuls of cream, season with salt, and 
use for filling. 

Sweet Omelets 

Spread omelet with jam, jelly, honey, or 
crushed fresh fruit or berries ; adding to these 
omelets, in place of pepper or other additions, 
sugar. 

Rum Omelet 

Prepare French omelet without parsley; roll 
together before removing from the chafing- 
dish ; pour over a winegLassful of Jamaica rum. 
Sprinkle omelet plentifully with powdered 
sugar. Take a long-handled mixing-spoon, fill 
with rum, and set fire to it. By dipping it into 
the remaining liquor the whole will become ig- 
nited. Baste the omelet as long as the rum 
bums. Keep the omelet weU covered with 

powdered sugar. 
64 



1002 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



vScrambled Eggs 
Put in the brazier 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Beat in a bowl 6 eggs; season with salt and 
pepper (white and cayenne). For each egg al- 
low 1 tablespoonful of milk, or milk and cream 
mixed ; have all stirred well together. As soon 
as butter begins to turn a light brown, intro- 
duce the eggs ; stir in one direction with large 
silver soup spoon as soon as the eggs begin to 
set. A combination of ham may be added by 
having minced ham ready and adding it first 
to the butter and cooking it a few minutes, then 
pouring oyer the eggs. Serve on toast. 

Welsh Rarebit 

The recipe given for Welsh rarebit, to be 
found under heading of ' ' Cheese Dishes, ' ' will 
be found to be adaptable to a chafing-dish, and 
these are tried and true recipes. 

Creamed Toast 

Prepare buttered toast and trim the edges. 

Put butter into chafing-dish; add 1 pint rich 
cream, put in as many slices as the dish will 
hold; when saturated, take up carefully, put 
into covered tureen, and put in more toast, al- 
lowing one piece for each person, and a few 
extra pieces, when all the toast is prepared. 
Add another pint of cream ; bring to a boil and 
pour over the toast in the tureen. Serve in deep 



CHAFING-DISH REOPES 1003 

dishes. Use soup ladle for dishing up toast. 
Mix together % cupful granulated sugar with 
14 tablespoonful powdered cinnamon, and serve 
with any milk dishes; to be used according to 
the individual taste, by sprinkling over the toast 
creamed rice, etc. 

Creamed Chicken 

Have ready cold chicken. Dice, season with 
salt, pepper. Celery stalks, cut very thin cross- 
ways, are an excellent addition. Put 1 table- 
spoonful butter into chafing-dish ; let it become 
hot. Put in the chicken ; stir for a few minutes 
until all becomes heated; pour in 1 cupful of 
cream; or if cream is not available, use rich 
milk. Cover and stew for fifteen minutes, stir- 
ring occasionally. If milk is used, dilute, 1 
tablespoonful flour with cold milk, and stir in 
the beaten yolk of an egg at last moment to give 
richness. Serve on toast. Sweet green pepper 
shredded in with the chicken is a dish to delight 
the epicure. 

Broiled Chicken 

For broiling chicken or other foods, remove 
the under section that contains the water. Put 
butter into the brazier. Have very small young 
chicken split; wipe, singe, and dry; rub it with 
salad-oil, and sprinkle with salt. Have butter 
in brazier very hot, and only enough to prevent 



1004 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

the meat from burning; brown quickly. When 
well browned on both sides, add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, and turn chicken in the brazier so 
that the meat is toward the bottom of the dish. 
Put pieces of butter in hollows made thus ; hav- 
ing the chicken inverted put on cover of chafing- 
dish and baste occasionally with the melted but- 
ter from the bottom of the dish. About twenty 
to thirty minutes should be sufficient to cook 
through thoroughly. Serve with Saratoga 
chips, which can be obtained freshly prepared 
at many shops. Serve with toast. 

Creamed Mushrooms 

Put into chafing-dish % cupful of butter. 
When hot put in 1 pound or quart. of button 
mushrooms, or other mushrooms that have been 
washed and peeled. Simmer the mushrooms 
untU tender; then add, stirring in carefully, 1 
pint rich cream; season with salt, pepper, and 
paprika. Eeduce the cream somewhat by sim- 
mering five or ten minutes longer. Serve on 
toast. 

Finnan Haddie 

Oet a nice, firm, fresh-looking finnan haddie. 
Cut a good steak out of the centre of the fish, 
about five inches square. This should be suffi- 
cient for three people. Have water boiling in 
the brazier and put the fish into it. Boil for 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 1005 



ten minutes ; drain, put into covered dish. Put 
into the ehaflng-dish % cupful of butter; add 
i/o teaspoonful pepper, a little paprika, and the 
juice of 1/4 lemon. Simmer for a few minutes 
until butter is hot; and pour into gravy bowl, 
and serve on the side. 

NUTS AND THEIR USES 

In recent years the uses of the nut have be- 
come many. Formerly nuts were served with 
the raisins as a second dessert, and invariably 
placed on the table with the demi-tasse of black 
coffee. 

As the next development in the way of table 
service came the salted nut-meats, put on as a 
side-dish the same as olives, etc. 

The latest development is the use of nuts for 
all manner of concoctions by themselves or 
mixed with other ingredients. 

From the days of early Plymouth, people in 
this country have been addicted to cakes and 
candies. Therefore we will turn to the later 
addition of nuts to the culinary achievements. 
Scientific analysis of the nut shows that it is 
most valuable as a food. It builds up muscle, 
and does not fatten. 

People sufferirig from indigestion, and other 
stomach troubles, get relief and nourishment by 
eating certain of the nuts, salted. 



J006 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Throughout the recipes -will be found combi- 
nations with nut-meat. The following are a few 
of the every-day nuts thus ^utilized : almonds, 
beechnuts, Brazilian, butternuts, chestnuts, co- 
coanuts, filbert or hazel, hickory, English wal- 
nuts, black walnuts, the litchi or Chinese nut, 
peanuts, pine nuts, pistachio nuts. 

These nuts are so well known that it will be 
unnecessary to give a description of them, so 
I will proceed to the making of 

Nut Butter 

Shell the nuts, using only the nut-meat. 
Purchase a stone mortar and pestle, such as are 
used by the apothecary. ( They will be found to 
answer for many other purposes.) Pound and 
grind the nuts with the pestle until they have 
become a cream. If of too thick a consistency, 
add a little water; then put into corked glass 
jars. In summer nut-butter is apt to become 
rancid, so I would not advise the making of too 
large quantities. The Brazil nuts are fre- 
quently added in part to the other nuts, being 
made into butter so as to enhance the flavor. 
Almond, Brazil, pecans, walnuts, and peanuts make the best 
butter. Nuts may also be ground in a meat grinder using 
the knife which comes for the purpose. 

When using almonds always remove the brown skin by 
steeping in hot water for a few minutes, then rub off with 
a coarse towel. 



CHAPING-DISH REQPES J007 



Salted Nuts 
Have ready the nut-meat, sprinkle over witli 
very fine salt. Put in baking-pan in the oven, 
and keep shaking the pan, so that the nuts will 
all become slightly crisp and brown. 

Sugared Nuts 
Use powdered sugar instead of salt. 

Marron Glac^ 

The imported product is best, although the 
native chestnut can be used, but is so much 
smaller. 

Parboil the chestnuts; shell, and put into 
boiling lightly salted water until tender, but 
not too soft, as they will fall in pieces. Make a 
syrup of 1 pound of sugar and % pii^t water, 
stirring with wooden spoon. Drain and care- 
fully dry the nuts, then put into the syrup. 
When it comes to a boil, simmer until the nuts 
take on a dark brown color and seem trans- 
parent. Put into jars and cover with the syrup, 
or put on glazed paper. These will kedp for 

some time. 

Cocoanut 

The cocoanut is used as an ingredient in 
many dishes and should be finely grated. 

Chestnuts 

The preparation of chestnuts will be found 
under the head of Vegetables. 



J008 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Glazed Nuts 

Use copper kettle and make a synip of 1 
pound of granulated sugar and % cupful of 
water. Boil, while stirring, until it will harden 
when dropped into cold water. Remove from 
the fire, being careful to keep the syrup amber- 
colored. Use candy-dipper ; dip each nut in the 
syrup; take out, using a spoon in conjunction 
with the dipper, and put on glazed paper or 
marble slab. Flavor the syrup, if desired, after 
removing from fire with the juice of % a lemon 
or less. Fruit is glazed in the same way. 

Nut Croquettes or Cutlets 

A Vegetarian Dish 

Mix together 1 cupful each of chopped nut- 
meat and bread crumbs; season with salt and 
pepper and a little lemon juice. Mix in 1 egg- 
so as to make it hold together; form into cro- 
quettes or cutlets; dip in beaten egg, then in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Drain, and 
serve with tomato or cream sauce, and if made 
into cutlets use a crab-claw, or wooden skewer, 
and cover with the regulation paper ruffle. 

Nut Souffle 

Take 1 pint of the milk of the cocoanut, or use 
cow's milk, and put on to boil; add 1 cupful of 
bread crumbs ; stir, and when thoroughly heated*, 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 1009 

add 1 cupful of chopped nut-meat. Season with 
salt and pepper; add % cupful of whipped 
cream and the lightly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Butter a baking-dish; pour in the mixture, and 
bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve 
immediately, as, in case of all souffles, it will 
fall if allowed to stand. 

Nuts are served with salad, mixed with force- 
meat, used in sauces, and made into sandwiches ; 
and will be found under such recipes. 



CARVING 

One of the first steps in learning to carve is 
to know the parts of the joint or fowl upon 
which one intends to operate. No one can carve 
well without practice and experience. In these 
days, when it is the custom to have meat and 
poultry carved before coming to the table, there 
is less opportunity than ever for one to learn. 
Good carving is really an accomplishment. It 
is unreasonable to expect a young person who 
sits at the table where the head of the family 
does all of the carving, to become proficient in 
the art from mere observation. How often the 
excuse that " I never had to do it, father al- 
ways carved " is heard. And nothing is more 
pitiable than to see such a one suddenly called 
upon to officiate on some occasion. The oppor- 
tunity to carve ought not only to be accorded to 
each member of the family, but the work should 
be insisted upon. 

One must get by study of some sort an idea of 
the location of the bones, gristle, and joints in 
meat and poultry. One who prepares a fowl, 
or who cuts up chicken for fricassee, should be 
able to mentally locate every bone and joint. 

10)0 



CARVING JO J I 



A sharp knife, a platter sufficiently large, a 
carving napkin, and a tender joint or bird will 
help much toward successful execution. No- 
where do ease and grace become so enviable as 
in carving a difficult joint or a refractory fowl. 
There must be no spilling of crumbs or splash- 
ing of gravy. Aim to divide the meat equally. 
Ask each guest his or her preference, and 
gratify it. Be not lavish in helping the guests. 
Estimate carefully the number, and make the 
dish go round easily. Do not give one all of the 
meat, and another all of the bone. See that a 
young or bashful person is provided with por- 
tions that are easy to manage. How often we 
have seen such unable to eat what is served on 
account of the difficulty in cutting it up. Not 
only should the piece be carved economically, 
but the remnant should be left in good shape. 
As the slices are carved, place them upon the 
platter and do not allow them to hang over the 
edge to drip upon the cloth. 

Learn to carve sitting as well as standing; 
both positions are allowed. If the cook has not 
removed all of the skewers or strings before the 
dish was brought in, do this first. 

The fork is the essential in good carving, 
after the sharp knife. Use the fork to hold the 
meat firmly. Hold the fork firmly but grace- 
fully. If the joint or bird is tough, do not show 



I0J2 CARVING 



that you know it. Just there is where your 
skill will be most deeply appreciated by the 
hostess. 

If there are two sorts of meat, carve first 
what you think will be sufficient from both ; then, 
and not'till then, ask the guests their choice. 

While it has been suggested that one observe 
how others carve, it is hardly necessary to 
dwell upon the rudeness of staring at the 
carver. 

If the carver is having a hard time of it, the 
tactful hostess will distract the attention of the 
guests from his efforts. 

Rib Roast 

Have the backbone to the right, and place the 
fork firmly in the middle. Run the knife along 
close to the backbone, cutting down to the ribs. 
Then cut away the gristly cord so as to enable 
you to slice. Begin on the side nearest to you, 
and see that the slices cut parallel to the ribs 
are thin and of equal thickness. After slicing 
them down to the ribs, separate them from the 
bone by running the knife under. If the meat 
h^s all of the bone removed, and is rolled and 
skewered, place it on the dish on the end, and 
cut thin slices from the top horizontally. It 
may be easier to place it upon the side and 
carve thin slices from the end nearest to you. 




Rib Roast 




Sirloin Roast 




Rolled Roast 



CARVING J0I3 



Sirloin Roast 

Place the backbone to the right. Several thin 
and uniform slices are cut parallel to the ribs, 
and to them. Separate them from the back- 
bone by cutting along it, and also at the end of 
the flank. Then turn the roast over and carve 
the tenderloin, cutting it in slices across the 
grain. If the roast is larger than needed, the 
tenderloin may be left and served. cold at an- 
other meal. For those who like fat, a few slices 
of the crisp fat from the flank-end may be 
served. Not everyone cares for this fat, so 
their preference must be consulted before serv- 
ing it. 

Beefsteak 

Do not serve the bone if it is cooked with the 
steak. Many cut out the bone before cooking, 
and claim that it is better and more economical 
to do so. Tough gristle and membrane, as well 
as the flank, should also be cut off before cook- 
ing. These can be cooked with great saving in 
some other ways. The tenderloin should be 
placed next to the carver. Each person should 
receive a part of the tenderloin; this is accom- 
plished by cutting it in narrow strips, after 
it has been removed by cutting close to the 
bone. The meat on the other side of the bone 
is removed in the same way, and is also cut 
into narrow strips. Serve each person a piece 



J0J4 CARVING 



of the tenderloin, the fat, and the upper part. 
The strips should be as wide as the steak is 
thick. Do not serve too liberally the first time. 
Leave enough for a second helping to thosewho 
may desire more. 

Round and rump steaks are cut in narrow 
strips always across the grain. This makes it 
easy for the guests to cut th«n with the grain 
with their usually less sharp knives. 

Corned Beef 

Corned beef is cut in thin slices. Lay aside 
the outside slice, as it is often dry and hard. If 
the piece of beef is narrow, the slices will ap- 
pear wider if they are cut obliquely. They 
should be quite thin, and cut across the grain. 
Serve each person a piece of fat and a piece of 
lean. 

Leg of Mutton 

Carve thin slices across the middle, cutting 
quite down to the bone. Cut the slices toward 
the thick part of the leg, making them of me- 
dium thickness; then separate them from the 
bone. Slice from the opposite side of the bone 
in the same way. 

Tongue 

Cut tongue in round slices crossways of the 
tongue. Some carvers slice the tip of the tongue 
lengthwise, as that part is considered more deli- 




Loin of Mutton 




Leg of Mutton 




Shoulder of Mutton 



CARVING J0J5 



cate when so cut. The best slices are in the 
middle. Serve one of these choice parts to each 
guest along with the other parts. Do not carve 
the root of the tongue. The slices must be as 
thin and wafer-like as possible. 

Ham 

This may be carved in the same way as mut- 
toU) except that the slices are very thin. 

Fore-Quarter of Lamb 

First separate the shoulder-part from the 
breast and ribs. Then the ribs are separated 
from one another. The platter must be large 
enough to accommodate this division. If it 
is not, another platter should be so placed 
that the carver may place the breast portion 
upon it until he is ready for it. The difficult 
part is the separation of the shoulder- joint. 
The carver's work will be much simplified by 
having the butcher remove the shoulder-blade 
and the bone of the leg. Each person should 
receive a rib, and either a piece of the breast or 
of the leg. according to preference. 

Loin of Veat 

The ribs are first to be divided, beginning at 
the smaller end. Carve the kidney in slices, and 
serve a portion of it to each g^est, as far as 
possible. Of course, the butcher has been di- 
rected to divide the meat at the joints of the 



J0J6 CARVING 



backbone. This makes carving a very simple 
matter. But if this has not been done, the 
carver must cut slices parallel to the backbone. 

Fillet of Veal 

Slice from the top downward, serving stuffing 

to each. 

Breast of Veal 

This divides, naturally and very distinctly, 
into the brisket and the ribs. The line of sepa- 
ratisn is very marked. It is first cut along that 
line. The brisket, which has been placed near- 
est to the carver, is sliced. Then the ribs are 
divided, and the sweetbread is sliced. Serve 
a portion of the rib, the brisket, an*^ the sweet- 
bread to each person. 

Haunch of Venison 

The haunch is the hind-quarter. The loin is 
placed nearest to the carver. The first step is 
to separate the loin from the leg. This is quite 
difficult, if the bones have not been removed. 
The leg is carved in the same way as a leg of 
mutton, cutting slices from the middle, quite 
down to the bone. The loin is then carved by 
separating the ribs and slicing the flank. 

Saddle of Mutton 

This is sliced on both sides of the backbone, 
beginning at the tail, which is placed to the left 
of the carver. The fork is firmly placed in the 




Chicken or Turkey 




Goose or Duck 




Jellied Chicken 



CARVING J0J7 



centre of the back, and the slices are cut very 
long. If the slices are too long to be served, 
they should be cut in two crosswise. The ten- 
derloin and the kidney fat under the ribs are 
choice parts. These are to be sliced, and a por- 
tion served to each person. 

Sucking Pig 

If the head has not been separated in the 
kitchen, which is a safe thing to do, as it is re- 
pulsive to a great many people, it is the first 
step in the carving to remove it. The legs are 
then separated by a circular sweep of the knife. 
Finally the ribs are separated. Serve a small 
portion of stuffing to each guest. The head is 
placed to the left when the platter is brought on. 

Turkey or Chicken 

The dish is to be placed so that the breast is 
to the left of the carver. Place the carving 
fork deeply at the small end of the breaetbone. 
This is important so as to completely control the 
work of the knife. The leg upon the far side 
is first removed by cutting around the joint, 
and then twisting the bone from the socket with 
the knife. Do not remove the fork to accom- 
plish this. Remove the wing on the same side 
in the same way. By slightly tipping the bird 
away from him, the carver can easily reach the 
leg and wing on the side nearest to him, and re- 
65 



J0J8 CARVING 



move them in the same manner. Thin slices are 
then cut from the sides of the breast. Then the 
wishbone is removed by making an incision in 
the breast. Then cut through the ribs from 
neck to tail, so as to pass in a straight line 
through the leg socket. Do this on both sides ; 
then quickly turn the knife, and so separate the 
front from the back of the carcass along the 
lines of the last cuts. Now, for the first time 
withdraw the fork, and divide the thigh from 
the drumstick. The last step is to divide the 
back at the joint of the second rib. Serve to 
each person a piece of dark and a piece of light 
meat, unless a preference for one sort is ex- 
pressed. If the turkey is large, and the family 
small, carve only one side of it. Serve stuffing 
to each guest. 

Duck and Goose 

Thege are carved alike. Place the bird with 
the breast to the left of the carver. Eemove the 
leg and the wing from the remote side. Then 
remove each from the near side. Cut slices 
from the sides of the breast. This is much 
more difficult to do in the case of ducks and 
geese, than with turkey or chicken. Four fine 
cuts are all that a skilful carver may hope to 
get. Make an incision to give free access to 
the stuffing. Only the breast of wild duck is 











;?^^^fai/ " ■ .'^.'/.^wM 


mm 


' -^^ 


™-'" u>,-; '»,^te^iaih ii^'J^^^HI 


^^PSSi-' . , 


■■P^""'' 


■ ■- ^gg||[||Pp|WJBi^fBL';a<sg JIJ 




IBKr ■"'■'-■ t- >^ 






iH7\^'.- vJi 




,, ■, , ■-, -^^^-■- , 


H'^'^W 




■ ^i'^^ -- 


■M:iV 




tmmmmfmneaxsssssKZ 


Pi!' ' 


I^B^jHf^.- ',^ 










« 






^ . 


i 




^','^'-' //■? 



Fillet Cooked and Larded 




Saddle of Mutton 



CARVING 1019 



carved. The remainder of the fowl is left to be 
served next day as a timbale or a salmi. 

Broiled Chicken 

As this is split down the back before broil- 
ing, the carver simply cuts through the breast- 
bone to divide the chicken into halves. Then 
each of these halves is divided crosswise, 
making quarters. 

Boned Chicken 

Fix the fork firmly into the breast portion, 
and cut slices crosswise, beginning at the neck. 

Woodcock, Snip'", and Plover 

These require no carving, as a whole bird is 
served to each guest. 

Pheasant, Quail, and Partridge 

Split into halves lengthwise, and serve one 
part to each guest. 

Rabbits and Hares 

When cooked whole, the fork is placed in the 
middle of the back. Remove the hind leg and 
the shoulder first from the remote side; then, 
tilting the rat)bit, remove those from the near 
side. Cut the back into three pieces. Remove 
the fork, and separate the hind leg into two 
parts at the joint. The best portions of the 
rabbit are the saddle and the thigh parts of the 



J020 CARVING 



hind leg. If the hare is a Belgian, it is large 
enough to permit of the saddle being cut 
lengthwise into two parts. 

Fish 

A silver knife and fork are provided for serv- 
ing fish, as steel spoils the flavor of the flesh. 
If the fish is boiled or baked, first remove the 
head. Then cut down the backbone as nearly 
as possible, gently prying the flesh away from 
it. Cut the top half into slices across the body ; 
then turn the backbone off the lower half, placing 
it on one side of the platter. Then cut the under 
half in slices across the fish. By separating the 
flesh from the backbone by a lengthwise cut, 
there is less danger either of serving so many 
bones or of mashing the flesh. 

Planked or Broiled Fish 

In this case the fish is to be cut crosswise, 
quite through the joints of the backbone.' This 
must be performed as quickly, as possible, as 
delay causes much of the good flavor to be lost. 
Care must be taken to strike the joints as ex- 
actly as possible, and not to break the flesh. 




Pheasant 




Roast Pig 



i 


-^ 




^^m 




^^^:.4 


a^^PffF 


^^i^^^SB^BsB^^SBBSk 





Fish 



BEVERAGES 

Breakfast Coffee 

Put freshly ground coffee into the strainer in 
the proportion of 1 cupful to a quart of boiling 
water. Add the boiling water gradually. Pour 
off into a hot pitcher and back again to the 
strainer, repeating until of the desired strength. 
Then pour into hot cups. ' 

Caf£ au Lait 

Make some strong, clear coffee. Pour it into 
the cup with an equal quantity of boiling milk, 
and sweeten according to taste. This is the 
coffee which is served in France for breakfast, 
and it is both palatable and nutritious. 

After-Dinner or Black Coffee 

This is the coffee which is bandied round in 
small cups after dessert in France. It is 
sweetened, but neither milk nor cream is added. 
It should be made exceedingly strong, and will 
be found useful in warding off the somnolency 
which is often the first result of a good dinner. 
It should be made in the same way as breakfast 
coffee, allowiag a tablespoonful finely ground 

J02J 



J022 BEVERAGES 

coffee for each cup. Serve in demi-tasse or 
small coffee-cups. 

Iced Coffee 

Set cafe au lait aside until cool. Then pour 
into tumblers half -filled with ice, and sugar to 
taste. 

Arabian Coffee 

All travellers agree in their account of tho 
delicacy and delicious flavor of the coffee use 1 
in the East. It is prepared thus : Pound thor- 
oughly in a mortar some coffee-berries that 
have been freshly and quickly roasted. Pass 
them through a fine sieve two or three times, 
until at last you have a brown flour. Mix 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of this flour and a small piece of cin- 
namon with 2 cupfuls of water. Boil it gently, 
then draw it back for a moment, anid repeat 
this several times, until a cream rises to the 
top ; then a(Jd half a, cupful more boiling water 
and it is ready to serve. Neither sugar nor 
inilk is required. 

Vegetarian Coffee 

1 teaspoonful each of whole allspice, cinna- 
mon, cloves, crushed nutmeg, blade mace, quar- 
ter of bay leaf; steep in 1 quart of water half 
an hour; strain in hot pot, adding 1 lump of 
sugar for each guest. A pitcher of hot cream 
is at hand for the hostess to dress the " coffee " 



BEVERAGES J023 

before the latter is passed. Eose-disks are 
dropped into the beverage. 

Tea (Hot) 

Have the kettle freshly boiling, so that the 
water may not taste flat. Pour the water on 
the dry leaves and draw off within three min- 
utes. Use teaspoon of tea for each person "served 
Pour, clear, into hot cups, adding afterwards 
sugar and cream as desired. 

Tea (Cold) 

A few minutes after pouring on the leaves 

strain off the liquid, and set away till cold. 

Pour later into glasses half-filled with cracked 

ice, adding slice of lemon and granulated sugar 

to taste. 

Tchai (Russian) 

Black Japan tea is brewed in a brags or cop- 
per samovar, poured into beautifully decorated 
cups, and served at the end of the meal. It 
must be very strong, and several cups of tes 
are consumed by the native Eussian. Cream 
is not used, but lumps of sugar are rubbed on 
lemon, dipped in the tea, and nibbled as a 

sweet. 

Russian Tea 

Brew tea iaccording to direction, and have 

the strength according to taste. Pour into 

long thin glasses; put a silver spoon first into 



1024 BEVERAGES 

the glass to prevent it breaking; put in slices 
of lemon, and pour over the lump of sugar 
about a tablespoonful of best rum — or put in 
tea and sweeten. No milk or cream. 

June Tea Punch 

Brew a strong tea; place in fancy pot; fill 
thin glasses with shaved ice ; use a teaspoonful 
powdered sugar, 2 maraschino cherries, with 
slice of lime on top ; pour hot tea over the whole 
and serve each glass on a lace-paper doily, 
placed on dainty china plates. This is a sooth- 
ing outdoor refreshment for a hot afternoon. 

Cocoa 

Made in the same way as chocolate. 

Cocoa Shells 

Stir into a quart of boiling water 2 ounces 

of cocoa shells previously wet with cold water. 

Boil steadily for an hour and a half; then 

strain, stir in 1 quart of fresh milk, and serve 

almost at the scalding point. Sweeten to suit 

taste. 

Chocolate 

With cold water rub 6 tablespoonfuls of choc- 
olate to a thin, smooth paste; upon this pour 
gradually 2 cupfuls of hot water; put in a 
saucepan and brijig quickly to a boil. After 
cooking for five minutes add 2 cupfuls of hot 



W^'M iS5pp»5|p^^ft!BSW5™?, 



-?j^4'^>#^ 




June Tea Punch 




Vegetarian Coffee 




Individual Breakfast Service 



BEVERAGES J025 

milk, and boil for another ten minutes. 
Sweeten to taste, and add whipped cream on 
top. 

Hot Beef Tea 

Break an egg, and beat it well in the bottom 
of a cup ; add a portion of sherry and 1 spoon- 
ful of beef tea. Fill with boiling water, stir 
briskly, and season to the taste. 

Milk Shake 

Take 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar and 
1 egg ; add ice, and fill shaker with milk. Turn 
over, shake thoroughly, and serve with straws 
and nutmeg on the side. 

Milk and Seltzer 

Fill a large soda-glass with half milk and 

half seltzer. 

Koumiss 

In 1 gill of warmed milk dissolve V3 of a 
yeast cake, and add 2 teaspoonfuls of granu- 
lated sugar. Have a beer bottle with patent 
fastener already scalded — or use an ordinary 
bottle, soaking the cork for half an hour to 
make it swell. Fill this bottle three-quarters^ 
full with fresh milk, blood-warm; then pour in 
the yeast mixture. After shaking briskly for 
two minutes cork tightly. The common cork 
must be wired down. Leave the bottle in the 
warm kitchen until the contents commence to 



1026 BEVERAGES 

foam and " work " six hours or so. Then 
place in the ice chest until used. 

Bottled Seidlitz Vi/ater 

Take a sufficient number of soda-water 
bottles, and fill them with clear water; then add 
the following ingredients, and cork and wire 
the bottles immediately: 2 drachms of Eochelle 
salts, 35 grains of bicarbonate of soda, and 11 
drops of sulphuric acid. 

Root Beer 

For good, old-fashioned root beer gather to- 
gether sarsaparilla, dandelion, yellow dock, 
hops, and burdock, if possible; other ingredi- 
ents often added are wild cherry bark, birch 
bark, elecampane, and aromatic spikenard. 

After washing thoroughly and bruising the 
roots," take 2 gallons of water to 1 ounce each 
of the ingredients. Putting the roots in the 
cold water, set over the fire so that all the es- 
sences and flavors will be drawn out by the 
heating. Steep for an hour and a half and then 
strain; add 1 pound of sugar and 25 drops of 
oil of sassafras or spruce, and when cool 
enough, so as not to kUl the yeast, add 6 of 8 
tablespoonfuls to the above quantity of water, 
or 1 or 2 dry yeast cakes dissolved in a little 
tepid water. 

After stirring the yeast in well, set the brew 



BEVERAGES J027 

away in an earthen jar and allow some hours 
for it to work. . After three or four hours it 
may be put in bottles, or kept in a jar for im- 
mediate use. 

Cider 

For a large quantity of pider, fine, juicy 
ap])les must be mashed and pressed, and a 
small Ehine-wine cask filled with the juice. 
Place the cask on a skid in a cool room, and 
fermentation will soon commence, taking about 
a fortnight to the process ; all stuffs coming to 
the surface during this period should be re- 
moved with a piece of clear linen. After fer- 
mentation is over, fill the cask with water, bung 
carefully, and leave in the cellar for six months ; 
then decant into another cask; leave for two 
months longer, and fill into bottles. 

Small quantities of cider may be made with 
less trouble. Peel the apples, and grate on a 
grater; strain the juice through cloth, pour 
into stone jars, and add roasted apples to 
hasten fermentation. After a couple of days 
a skin appearing on the juice shows that fer- 
mentation is complete ; remove this skin, bottle 
the cider, and keep in a cool place. 

Limeade 

Put in a large glass the juice of 3 limes, and 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. Fill half full of 



J028 BEVERAGES 

shaved ice, and then fill with water ; shake thor- 
oughly and ornament with fruit. Serve with 
straw. 

Orangedde 

Make a syrup by boiling 6 ounces of loaf 
sugar in half a pint of water until the sugar is 
dissolved. Pour it over the thin yellow rinds 
of 2 small oranges, and let them infuse for two 
or three hours. Strain the juice of 6 oranges 
into a glass jug. Add the flavored syrup, first 
passing it through a jelly-bag, and a pint and 
a half of cold water. Drink the orangeade 
cold. 

It takes from two or three hours to infuse the 
rinds. SufBcient for two pints and a half. 

Orangeade (at All Seasons) 

Pour a pint of brandy, or rectified spirits of 
wine, over the thin rind and strained Juice of 
2 oranges. Cover the infusion closely, and 
leave in a warm place for six weeks, shaking it 
every day. At the end of that time filter it 
through muslin, and put it into small bottles. 
Cork these closely, and store tiiem until wanted. 
When orangeade is required, it is only neces- 
sary to dissolve a small lump of sugar in half 
a pint of spring water, and add a dessertspoon- 
ful pf the orange-flavored spirit. Sufficient for 
a pint of orangeade. 



BEVERAGES 1029 

Pineapple Water (a Refreshing Summer 
Beverage) 

Take a moderate-sized pineapple; pare and 

slice it, and pound it to a pulp in a mortar. Put 

this into a bowl with the strained juice of a 

large fresh lemon, and pour over it a pint of 

boiliog syrup made in the proportion of 1 

pound of sugar to a pint cTf water. Cover the 

jug which • contains the liquid, and leave it in 

a cool place for two hours or more. Strain 

through a napkin, put 2 pints of cold spring 

water with it, and serve. Sufficient for three 

pints of pineapple water. 

Ginger Beer 

To 11 gallons of water put 10 pounds of 
loaf sugar, half a pound of bruised ginger, 
the rinds of 4 lemons, and the whites of 4 eggs 
beaten into a strong froth; mix them all well to- 
gether whilB cold, and put the preparation into 
a copper. As soon as it boils skim it well, and 
then pour it into a oooter, and pat to it 2 ounces 
of cream of tartar and the inside of 6 lemons 
sliced and the pips taken out. When it is 
nearly cold, put into a doth 4 tablespoonfuls of 
yeast, and pour iiie Hquor in upon it. "When 
done working bung it up, arid let it staiid a fort- 
night; then bottle it o:ff, and it will be fit for 
drinking in about ten days. 



1030 BEVERAGES 

Ginger Beer (Other Ways) 

Take a pound and a half of common brown 
sugar, or treacle, a gallon and a half of water, 
an ounce of ground ginger, and a lemon, if liked. 
Boil, cool, and then add yeast. 

2. Dissolve 4 ounces of candied ginger in 2^ 
gallons of boiling water ; add 2 pounds of sugar, 
1 ounce of powdered citric acid when nearly 
cold, and 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. .Let stand 
several hours ; then bottle and seal. 

Saratoga Cooler 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, juice of half a lemon, 1 bottle 
of ginger ale, and 2 small lumps of ice. After 
stirring well remove the ice. 

Plain Lemonade 

Put into a large bar-glass the juice of half 
a large lemon, li/^ tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 
or 3 pieces of orange, and fill half full with 
shaved ice, the balance with water; add a dash 
of raspberry syrup and fruits in season. Serve 
with straws. 

Soda Lemonade 

Into a large soda-glass put 11/2 tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
1 bottle of plain soda water, and 2 or 3 small 
lumps of ice. After stirring thoroughly re- 
move the ice. 



BEVERAGES J03I 

Seltzer lemonade is made in the same way, 
only using seltzer for the soda water. 

Egg Lemonade 
Put into a large bar-glass 1 large tablespoon- 
ful of pulverized white sugar, juice of half a 
lemon, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, 
and shake well. Then strain into a soda-water 
glass and fill with soda water or seltzer, gar- 
nishing with berries. 

Orgeat Lemonade 

Put into a iarge bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, % wineglassful of orgeat 
syrup, the juice of half a lemon, and fill one- 
third full of ice and balance with water. After 
shaking thoroughly, add berries in season, and 
serve with straws. 

Fine Lemonade for Parties 

Eub the rinds of 8 lemons on a portion of 
2 pounds of loaf sugar until all the oil is ab- 
sorbed, and put it with the remainder of the 
sugar into a" jug; add the juice of 1 dozen 
lemons (not the pips), and pour over this 1 gal- 
lon of boiling water. After the sugar is dis- 
solved, strain through a piece of muslin, and 
cool. The lemonade may be greatly improved 
by beating up with it the whites of 4 eggs. This 
recipe allows for 1 gallon. 



1032 BEVERAGES 

Soda Nectar 

Strain the juice of 1 lemon and add it to % 
tumblerful of water, sweetening with powdered 
sugar to taste. Stir in 2 or 3 small lumps of 
ice to cool, and mix well. Then add half small 
teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, pour into a 
large soda-glass, and drink while effervescing. 

Nectar for Dog- Days 

Put 1 lemon ice into a large goblet and pour 
upon it 1 bottle of plain soda. A very cool and 
refreshing beverage. 

Soda Cocktail 

Put into large soda-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, 2 dashes of Angostura bitters, 
and 3 or 4 small lumps of ice. Then pour in 1 
bottle of plain soda, stir thoroughly, and re- 
move the ice. 

Horse's Neck 

Into a large tumbler put the entire peel of a 
lemon cut in cireular style, plenty of ice, and a 
bottle of ginger ale. 

Orange Sherbet 

Peel half a dozen ripe, sweet oranges; cut 
4 of them in pieces, and separate from the 
white sMn and seeds ; squeeze the other two. 

Stir with 14 pound of sugar over a slow fire 
till it boils; then cool, thin with fresh water, 



BEVERAGES J033 

and add the pieces of orange, several drops of 
orange-flower essence, and lumps of ice. 

Blackberry Wine 

To make an excellent strong blackberry wine, 
proceed as follows: Take 45 quarts of ripe 
blackberries well picked and pressed, and mix 
them with 10 pounds, of good honey and 26 
pounds of strong, bright, moist sugar. Boil 
with 12 gallons of soft water and the whites 
of 12 eggs well beaten, till the liquor is reduced 
to 10 gallons, skimming it till it is perfectly 
clear. Strain the liquor into a tub, and let it 
stand till the following day ; then pour it clear 
of the lees and boil it again fpr three-quarters 
of an hour, adding the lees, filtered twice, and 
2 ounces of isinglass dissolved in a quart of 
water. Skim well, and put in 2 ounces of Ja- 
maica pepper, 2 ounces of cloves, and 2 ounces 
of best ginger, all bruised and tied loosely in a 
piece of muslin. Put into your cooler the thin 
rinds of 6 Seville oxanges and a pint of lemon 
juice; strain tiie liquor upon them, stir well; 
and when cool enough work it with a pint of 
fresh yeast stirred well into a gallon of the 
Uquor, Cover cloge, and let it wojk for four 
or five days, removing the top scum and stir- 
ring twice daily; then strain, and filter it into 

the cask ; put in the bung tightly, keep the cask 
66 



1034 BEVERAGES 

well filled up, and when it has ceased ferment- 
ing, let a day elapse, and add 2 quarts of 
French brandy and an ounce and a half of isin- 
glass dissolved in a little water and mixed, with 
a gallon of the wine, ten minutes, an ounce of 
bitter almonds blanched and slit, and 6 ounces 
of sugar-candy broken small. Secure the bung, 
paste strong white paper or coarse linen over 
it, and place plenty of sand over all, wetted a 
little. Keep the wine in a cool cellar for two 
years ; then bottle it — for it is certain to be fine 
— ^by means of the filterings, which are quite 
necessary to this as well as to all raspberry 
and elder wine. Seal the corks, and keep it in 
the bottles before using for two years. If al- 
lowed to lie for a longer time it will still im- 
prove, and will be found a beautiful wine. 

Currant Wine 

Bruise 8 gallons of currants with 1 quart of 
raspberries. Press out the juice, and to the 
residuum, after pressure, add 11 gallons of cold 
water. Add 2 pounds of beetroot sliced as thin 
as possible to give color, and let them infuse, 
with frequent mixture, for twelve hours; then 
press out the liquor as before, and add it to the 
.juice. Next dissolve 20 pounds of raw sugar 
in the mixed liquor, and 3 ounces of red tartar 
in fine powder. In some hours the fermenta- 



BEVERAGES J035 

tion will commence, which is to be managed as 
in the case of blackberry wine. When the fer- 
mentation is completely over, add 1 gallon of 
brandy; let the wine stand for a week, then 
rack off, and let it stand for two months. It 
may now be finally racked off, bunged up in the 
cask, and set by in a cool cellar for as many 
years as may be required to ameliorate it. 

Cowslip Wine 

Allow 3 pounds of loaf sugar, the rind of an 
orange and a, lemon, and the strained juice of 
a lemon to every gallon of water. Boil the 
sugar and water together for half an hour. 
Skim it carefully, then pour it over the rind and 
juice. Let it stand until new-milk warm; add 
4 quarts of cowslip pips or flowers, and to every 
6 quarts of liquid put 3 large tablespoonfuls 
of fresh yeast, spread on toast. On the follow- 
ing day put the wine into a ca,sk, which must 
be closely stopped. It will be fit to bottle or 
drink from the cask in seven weeks. Twenty- 
four or forty-eight hours to ferment; seven 
weeks to remain in the cask. 

May Wine 

Throw into a punch-bowl a bottle of hock; 
slice into that a lemon, an orange, or add a few 
strawberries, a glass of sherry, and sufficient 
crushed white sugar to sweeten. Now put in 



J036 BEVERAGES 

12 little sprays of leaves of the sweet woodruff, 
and, if in bloom, some of the blossoms. Let 
them steep an hour, and serve out with a ladlo. 
Sweet-scented flowers are often thrown in, and 
must float on the top ; and leaves of sweet herbe 
and of other fragrant plants, such as the lemon- 
plant and lavender, may be added. May wine 
may be iced. 

Elderberry Wine 
The elderberry is well suited to the produc- 
tion of wine. The juice contains a considerabJo 
quantity of the principle necessary for a vigor- 
ous fermentation, and its beautiful color im- 
parts a rich tint to the wine made from it. It 
is, however, deficient in sweetness, and sugar 
must be added to it. The following is an ap- 
proved recipe: Take 1 gallon of ripe elder- 
berries and 1 quart of damsons or sloes for 
every 2 gallons of wine to be made. Boil the 
elderberries in about half the quantity of water 
till they burst, breaking them frequently with a 
stick. Strain the liquor, and return it to the 
copper. To produce 18 gallons of wine, 20' gal- 
lons of this liquor are required, and for what- 
ever quantity the liquor ffe,lls short of this, 
water must be added to make it up. Boil this, 
along with 56 pounds of coarse, moist sugar, 
for half an hour, and it is to be fermented in 
the usual manner when sufficiently cooled, and 



BEVERAGES J037 

then it is to be tunned or put into the cask. Put 
now into, a muslin bag a pound and a half of 
ginger bruised, a pound of allspice, 2 ounces of 
cinnamon, and 4 or 6 ounces of hops; suspend 
the bag with the spice in the cask by a string 
not long enough to let it touch the bottom; let 
the liquor work in the cask for a fortnight, and 
fill up in the usual way. The wine will be fit 
to tap in two months, and is not improved by 
keeping, like many other wines. Elderberries 
alone may be used. 

Cura^oa 

Take a quarter of a pound of the thin rind of 
Seville oranges, and pour over it a pint of boil- 
ing water; when cool, add 2 quarts of brandy 
or rectified spirits of wine, and let it remain 
for ten or twelve days, stirring it every day. 
Make a clarified syrup of 2 pounds of finely 
sifted sugar and 1 pint of water ; add this to the 
brandy, etc. Line a funnel with a piece of mus- 
lin, and that with chemists ' filtering paper ; let 
the liquid pass through two or three times till 
it is quite bright. This will require a little 
patience. Put it into small bottles, and cork it 
closely. Time, twelve days. Sufficient for a 
little more than three quarts of curagoa. 
Curagoa imparts an agreeable flavor to cream 
and to punch, and is an excellent liquor. 



J038 BEVERAGES 

Ginger Cordiaf 

Pick 2 pounds of white or black currants. 
Bruise them slightly, and mix with them 1% 
ounces of ground giager. Pour over them 1 
(|uart of good whiskey or brandy, and let them 
stand for two days. Strain off the liquid; add 
1 pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup with a 
small teacupful of water. Bottle, and cork 
closely for use. Sufficient for three pints of 
cordial. 

Cherry Brandy (to be Made in July or 
August) 

The morello cherry is generally used for this 

purpose, on account of its peculiar acidity. It 

ripens later than other cherries, and is more 

expensive. It is seldom used as a dessert fruit ; 

nevertheless, if allowed to hang until fully ripe, 

it is very refreshing and agreeable to m^ny 

palates. The cherries for brandy should be 

gathered in dry weather, and must be used 

when fresh. They ought not to be over-ripe. 

Wipe each one with a soft cloth, and cut the 

stalks, leaving them about half an inch in 

length. A little more than half fill wide-necked 

bottles such as are used for bottliug fruit. 

Allow 3 ounces of pounded sugar with each 

pound of fruit, which must be placed in with it. 

Fill the bottles with the best French brandy. 

Do not make the mistake of supposing that the 



BEVERAGES 1039 

fruit and sugar will make bad spirit pass for 
good. Cork the bottles securely, and seal over 
the top. The cherries may be used-in a month, 
))ut will be better in two. Three or four cloves 
put in the bottle are by many considered an im- 
provement. 

Apricot Brandy 

To every pound of fruit, take 1 pound of loaf 
sugar and a wineglassful of water. Put the 
apricots, which must be sound, but not quite 
ripe, into a preserving-pan with sufficient water 
to cover them ; allow them to boil ; then simmer 
gently till tender. JBemove the skins. Clarify 
and boil the sugar, and pour it over the fruit. 
Let it remain twenty-four hours. Then put the 
apricots into glasses, and fill ihem up with 
syrup and brandy, half and half, and keep them 
well corked and the tops of the corks securely 
sealed. They must be kept twelve months 
before using. They should be prepared in 
July. Time to simmer the apricots, about one 
hour. 

Cherry Wine 

Take ripe, sweet cherries; stem them, wash, 
and mash with wooden mallet. Press out the 
juice, and to each quart add % pound of granu- 
lated sugar and 1 cupful of water. After stir- 
ring well pour into a crock, cover closely with 
cheesecloth, and leave for one month to fer- 



J040 BEVERAGES 

ment. When this has ceased, rack off and i^ut 
in bottles. 

Dandelion Wine 
Get 4 quarts of the yellow petals of the dan- 
delion, and pour over them into a tub 1 gallon 
of warm water that has previously been boiled. 
Stir it well round and cover, with a blanket; to 
stand three days, during which time it should 
be stirred frequently. Strain off the flowers 
from the liquid, and boil it for half an hour with 
the rind of a lemon, the rind of an orange, a 
little ginger, and 3% pounds of lump sugar to 
each gallon; add the sugar and lemon, from 
which the rinds were removed, in slices to the 
boiling liquor, and when cool ferment with 
yeast on a toast. When it has stood a day or 
two put it into a cask, and in two months bottle. 
This wine is said to be specially adapted to ail 
persons suffering from liver complaints. 

Grape Wine (Home-made) 

Mash the grapes, stems and all, in an open 
cask, and cover it with cheesecloth, as the least 
particle falling into the contents may change it 
materially. 

After fermentation put through a fruit-press, 
turn the juice extracted into a clean, close cask, 
BiUd leave on its side for one month, being care- 
ful not to disturb it and keeping it in a cool, 



m:verages mi 

dark place. During fermentation, however, it' 
should be stirred daily. 

, It will now be ready to bottle, and the bottles 
should be laid away on their sides. 

Another Recipe 
Stem a small quantity of grapes and mash 
with a potato-beetle in a clean tub or crock. 
, Strain through a bag to get as much juice as 
possible. To each quart of this add half a 
pound of white sugar, and put away to ferment 
in a big jar or clean cask, covering the bung- 
hole at the top with netting. After fermenting 
for three or four weeks it should be still and 
clear. Then bottle, pouring off the lees with 

care. 

Grape Juice 

Put 6 quarts of grapes (stemmed) in 1 quart 

of water; bring slowly to a boil, and strain. 

Theh return the juice to the fire, bring to a boil 

again, and, while scalding hot, bottle and seal. 

Rhubarb Wine 

In a double boiler boil the rhubarb, adding no 
water after washing it and cutting it into small 
pieces. Press out and measure all the juice; 
add an equal quantity of water, sweeten to the 
taste, and add brandy in the proportion of 1 
cupful to every gallon of the liquid. Bottle 
and seal. 



J042 MENU TERMS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGES 



QQ 

Iz; 

P3 
O 






H 

s 



































































1 


o 


1 


1 
1 


1 


1 
1 


■4^ 

1 


GQ 

S 


1 




< 


a 


1 

Eel 


1 

"3 

o 




3 




























^ 








1 


-2 

GO 


1 

3 


1 
1 


S 


q 

1 


-4^ 


1 
1 


i 

a 
s 
Pm 


a 

1 

P3 


T3 

i 




1 

IS 

1 


1 


M 




« 
g 


■2 




> 

3 

1 


13 
O 

'i 


1 

1 


a 


a 

£ 

•4-9 


1 


1 


5 


1 


1 

1 

-4^ 

1 


J2 


i 




























■e 














































5 

QQ 








v 
















M 
S 

i 


f 


1 


i 


1 


1 


•4J 


1 

3 


1 


i 
^ 


-i 
s 


•a 

a 
-J2 


"3 

Em 




1 


























^ 








^ 
























OS 









MEATS, ETC., IN VARIOUS LANGUAGES! 1043 



a 

& 
o 

<! 

cc 

O 

M 



30 

"i 
EH 

a 

a 

■< 

w 
H 

B 

1^ 
CO* 

O 

o 



■a gg^i = § S dfe i^oi: a ■a as 
-^^5 w^ i w 2 






.SSs 



IS * 



"3. 



d o 






n o 
9 & OS 

■« a 



n 




Q 


Sfl = 


H 


fl ja-r; 


fa ' 


|H 



3S, 



tj *d3 .H -♦= 
> as 9 ? fii fc 1 



^e, 



a'i^ll'sllilll^llllJI 

^igM'^»aS.a'a-Bi|ooJ'^"^f^ 



s 


d 




















u 


=^ 


U 



H ^ 



OOMg 



EH5.ii 

^ 5 - 

gi| 

too 



go 




1044 MEATS, ETC., IN VARIOUS LANGUAGES 



a 
s: 

I 

c5 
<l 
& 

< 

Hi 
CO 
P 
O 

iz; 






af 
af 
o 

H 



d si 

bp.£ S « o I » ^"a, 



§• 















«* a 



« 9 



» 



^ 



C3 



hi s 












mo — ._J^u.ii^F- 
(D 3 B a. » 3 a^;5 ° 

IV. m oO'^'^iS '^'■fl 3 
iS B S OW »J q S 




'rS 

Bed 
|§ 

B m 



I 

<BS a o* s 5 1 

B «::3 2 ffl B BrK ^ (0 







o 



59 



IJ 



^■% 



t|^s:§il|al|^liili|§|l|sg|| 



w., 



g| 



a s m 



s 



MEATS, ETC., IN VARIOUS LANGUAGES 1045 



8 

I 

m 

■< 
g 
% 

Hi 

an 
P 
O 

M 
<1 



EH 

fa 

t> 

of 
B 

M 
P 

o 

i5 



& o 

u h a> 

5 f^ 



5o 



^ ■ © J O -** ft 



9 O O OS 

9-e a fl s-S B 



d " S"l3 « O O PL( Z o 



p! ^J 



P a) s 
6pp S 



'S;IS= 






P^ 



' ho 






■S a 
to pa ® 

3 s 3 



O 



9 



4 g8 






III i I § §^ S 1 «m t^^ ^ i-i slill i 



§6 

O 



an o 
-I 




TEEMS USED IN COOKING 

Abattis—Gihlets. 

Agneau — Lamb. 

A la, au, aux — With; as Huitres aux cham- 
pignons, — Oysters with mushrooms ; or, Smelts 
a la Tartare, — with tartare sauce. 

A I'Aurore — A white sauce, colored pink with 
spawn of lobster. 

A la bonne Femme — Of the good housewife. 

A I'E sir agon — With tarragon. 

A la Neige — In the style of snow. 

A la Poulette — Meat or fish warmed in white 
sauce with yolks of eggs. 

A la Reine — of the queen, 

Allemande — A thick white sauce made with 
cream and the yolks of eggs, and seasoned with 
nutmeg and lemon juice. 

Almond— A nut grown in southern Europe. 
It consists of a stone fruit, the fleshy pericarp 
of which dries in ripening, and forms a tough 
covering to the stone. Bitter almonds are ob- 
tained from Morocco. They contain prussic 
acid, and are poisonous. The sweet almonds 
include the Jordan and Valencia varieties. The 
Jordan almonds, imported from Malaga, are 
long and narrow, and are considered the best. 

J046 



TERMS USED IN COOKING J047 

Angelica — A plant, the stems of which are 
preserved in syrup, and used for decorating 
pastry, etc. 

Anguilles — Eels. 

Apricot — A stone fruit cultivated in temper- 
ate and tropical climates. The skin has a 
highly perfumed flavor. 

Asperges — Asparagus. 

Aspic Jelly — A transparent meat jelly made 
with stock, and used for garnishing, 

Assiette — Plate. 

Atelet — A small silver skewer. 

Au Beurre noir — With black butter. 

Au Beurre roux — ^With browned butter. 

Au Bleu — A French term applied to fish 
boiled in white wine with flavorings. 

Ah Gratin — Dishes covered with crumbs and 
grated cheese and browned over. 

Au Gras — Dressed with meat gravy. 

Au naturel — Plain, simple (potatoes cooked 
in their jackets are " au naturel "). 

Au Jus — In the natural juice, or gravy. 

Au vert Pie — ^With sweet herbs. 

Aux Cressons — ^With watercresses. 

Auo) Rognons — ^With kidneys. 

Avena — Oats. 

Bab a — ^A very light plum cake, or sweet 
French yeast cake. 

Bain-marie — An open vessel whicli has ^ 



J048 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

loose bottom for the reception of hot water. It 
is used to keep sauces nearly at the boiling- 
point without reduction or burning. 

Bannock — Primitive cake without yeast; 
cooked on a griddle ; in Scotland made of peas, 
barley, and oatmeal ; in America of corn meal. 

Barde — A thin slice of bacon fat, placed over 
any substance specially requiring the assistance 
of fat without larding. 

Barbecue-^To roast any animal whole, 
usually in the open air. 

Barm — The scum from fermented malt 
liquors, used as yeast. 

Baron of Beef — The two sirloins not cut 
down the back. Formerly a favorite dish in 
England. 

Baron of Lamb — The entire loin, not divided 
at the backbone, with the upper part of both 
legs. 

Batterie de Cuisine — Complete set of cooking 
apparatus. 

Bavaroise a I'eau — Tea sweetened with syrup 
of capillaire, and flavored with a little orange- 
flower water. 

Bavaroise au Loii— Made in the same way as 
the above, but with equal quantities of milk and 
tea. 

Bechamel — A rich white French sauce. 

Beignet or Fritter (see Fritter). 



TERMS USED IN COOKING J 049 

Bearnaise — A rich egg sauce flavored with 
tarragon, named from Beam, birthplace of 
Henry IV. of France. 

Becasses — ^Woodcock. 

Bisque — A soup made of shellfish. 

Blanch — To parboil, to scald vegetables, nuts, 
etc., in order to remove the skin. 

Blanquette — Any white meat warmed in a 
white sauce thickened with eggs. 

Blonde de Veau — Double veal broth used to 
enrich soups and sauces. 

Bouchees — Very small patties. 

Boeuf — Beef. 

Bouillabaisse — Several kinds of fish boiled 
quickly and highly seasoned with onion, orange 
peel, saffron, oil, etc. 

Bouquet — ^A spray of each of the herbs used 
in seasoning, rolled up in a spray of parsley, 
and tied securely. 

Bouille — Broth made from beef. 

Bouilli — Beef stewed generally in one large 
piece, and served with a sauce. 

Bourguignote — ^A ragout of truffles. 

Bouillon — ^A clear beef soup. 

Braise^— Keai cooked in a closely covered 
stewpan to prevent evaporation, so that the 
meat retains not only its own juices, but those 
of any other articles, such as bacon, herbs, 
rootSj and spices put with it. 
61 



J050 TERMS USED IN COOKING 



Braisiere — A saucepan with ledges to the lid 
so that it will contain firing. 

Bridle — To truss fowls with a needle and 
threa;d. 

Brawn — Head cheese. 

Bretonne — A puree of red onions. 

Brioche — A sponge cake similar to Bath buns. 

Brioche Paste — Cakes made with yeast. 

Broche — A spit. 

Brochette — A skewer. 

Brunoise — A brown soup or sauce. 

Buisson — A cluster or bu^h of small pastry 
piled on a dish. 

Bubble and SqVfSak — A dish of vegetables, 
hash, and meat. 

Buttock — A round of beef. 

Cafe au Lait — Coffee with milk. 

Cafe noir — Black coffee. 

Caille — Quail. 

Callipash — The glutinous portion of the 
turtle found in the upper shell. 

Callipee — The glutinous meat of the turtle's 
under shell. 

Canard — Duck. 

Cannelons—Pu& paste baked round a form 
of cardboard shaped like a cane. 

Cannelons of Meat — ^Highly seasoned and 
minced meat baked in the form of a roll. 

Capers— The unopened buds of a shrub 



TERMS USED IN COOKING J05J 



grown in southern Europe. Pickled and used 
in sauces. 

Capon — ^A chicken castrated for the purpose 
of improving the quality of the flesh, 

Capilotade — A hash of poultry. 

Caramel — A syrup of burnt sugar named 
after Count Caramel, discoverer of the seventh 
degree of cooking sugar used for flavoring cus- 
tards, etc., and coloring soups. 

Cardoon — A vegetable resembling the arti- 
choke. 

Casserole- — A covered stone dish in -v^hich is 
cooked and served (sometimes applied to a 
form of pastry) rice or macaroni filled with a 
fricassee of meat or puree of game. 

Civet — A dark, thickish stew of hare or ven- 
ison. ' 

Champignons — Mushrooms. 

Charlotte — A preparation of cream or fruit 
formed in a mould, lined with cake or fruit. 

Chartreuse — Game, fillets, ,etc., moulded in 
jelly and surrounded by vegetables. Invented 
by the monks at the monastery of Chartreuse. 

Chervil — The leaf of a European plant used 
for salad. 

Chilis — Red peppers. 

Chine — A piece of the backbone of an animal 
cut with the adjoining parts cut for cooking. 
Usually applied to pork. 



J052 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Chives — An herb allied to the onion family. 

Chou-fleur — Cauliflower, 

Chutney — A hot acid sauce made from 
apples, tomatoes, raisins, cayenne, ginger, gar- 
lic, shallots, salt, sugar, lemons, and vinegar. 

Citron — The rind of a fruit of the lemon 
species, preserved in sugar. 

Cock-a-leekie — ^A soup used in Wales made 
from fowls and leeks. 

Collar — To cure meat in spiced briae. 

Collops — Meat cut in small pieces. 

Compiegne — Sweet French yeast-cake with 
fruit. 

Confitures — Sweetmeats of sugars, fruits, 
syrups, and essences. 

Consomme — Clear soup. 

Compote — Fruit stewed in syrup. 

Cream Sugar and Butter — Is to rub sugar 
into the butter until they are well incorporated ; 
then beat light ajad smooth. . 

Coulis — A rich smooth gravy used for color- 
ing, flavoring, and thickening certain soups. 

Coriander — A plant cultivated for its tender 
leaves. Used in soups and salads and in mak- 
ing curry powder. 

Cornichons — Pickles, 

Cotelettes — Cutlets. 

Creme Brulee — Brown sugar or caramel with 
cream. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING J053 



Creole, d la— >-With. tomatoes, onions and 

Crivettes — Shrimp. [peppers. 

Crimp — To cause to contract, or render more 
crisp. 

Croquettes — Minced meat, fish, or fowl mixed 
with sauce, rolled in shape, and covered with 
egg and bread crumbs and fried crisp. 

Croustade — A kind of patty of bread crust or 
prepared rice. 

Crouton — A sippet of fried or toasted bread. 

Crumpet — Eaised muffins baked on a griddle. 

Cuisine masquee — Highly seasoned or un- 
usually ^ixed dishes. 

Cuisson — Method of cooking meats in the 
liquor in which they have been boiled. 

Cuen de boeuf — Ox tails. 

Currants — Dried currants are the small black 
grapes grown at Corinth. 

Curries — Stews of meat or fish, seasoned with 
curry powder. 

Curry Powder — A compound of coriander 
seed, tumeric, ginger, pepper, cummin seed, car- 
damoms, caraway seed, and cayenne. 

De, d'—Oi, as filet de boeuf, fillet of beef. 

Dariole — A sweet pate baked in a mould. 

Daube — Meat or fowl stewed in sauce. 

Daubiere — ^An oval stewpan. 

Dejeuner — Breakfast. 

Desosser — To bone. 



J054 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Demi-tasse — A small cup (applied to after- 
dinner coffee). 

Dorure — Yolks of eggs, well-beaten, for cov- 
ering meat and other dishes. 

Devilled — Seasoned hotly. 

Dinde — Turkey. 

Eclaire — Pastry or cake filled with cream. 

En Coquille — Served on shells. 

En Papillote — Served on papers. 

Endive — A plant of composite family used 
as salad. 

Entrees — Small made dishes served between 
courses at elaborate dinners. 

Entremet — Second course side-dishes, in- 
cluding vegetables, eggs, sweets. 

Epigrams — Small fillets of poultry, game, 
and lamb prepared as an entree. 

Escalopes — CoUops. 

Espagnole — A rich brown Spanish sauce. 

Epvnards — Spinach. 

Eperlans — Smelts. 

Faisan — Pheasant. 

Fagot — ^A small bunch of parsley and thyme 
tied up with a bay leaf. 

Farce — Force-meat. 

Fausse Tortue — Mock turtle. 

Feuilletage — ^Puff paste. 

Financiere — An expensive, highly flavored, 
mixed ragout. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING J055 

Flamber — To singe fowl or game after pick- 
ing. 

Flan — A French cnstard. 

Flancs — The side-dishes of large dinners. 

Fanchonettes and Florentines — Small pas- 
tries covered with a meringue. 

Fillets — Long, thin pieces of meat or fish 
generally rolled and tied. 

Finnan Haddock — Haddock smoked and 
dried. Named from Findon, in Scotland, where 
they are obtained in perfection. 

Flans, Darioles, and Mirofons — French cheese 
cakes. 

Foie — Liver. 

Foncer — To put in the bottom of a saucepan 
thin pieces of veal or bacon. 

Fondue — A light and pleasant preparation of 
cheese. 

Fowl a la Marengo— K fowl browned in oil 
and stewed in rich stock, seasoned with wine. 

Frais e — Strawberry. 

Fricandeaux — Boned pieces of veal chiefly 
cut from the thick part of the fillet, and of not 
more than two or three pounds each, larded and 
browned and stewed in stock. 

Fromage — Cheese. 

Fricassee — Chicken or veal stewed with white 
sauce, and mushrooms, etc., used as accesso- 
ries. 



t056 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Fritter — Anything encased in a covering of 
batter and fried. 

Gateau — Cake. 

Gaufres — ^Waffles. 

Gelee — Jelly. 

Geiievese Sauce — A white sauce made of 
white stock, highly seasoned, and served with 
boiled fish. 

Glaze — Stock boiled down to the thickness of 
jelly, and used to improve the appearance of 
braised dishes. 

Glace — Covered with icing. 

Godiveaux — Various varieties of force-meat. 

Gras — ^With, or of, meat; the reverse of 
maigre. 

Gnocchi — A light, savory dough, boiled; 
served with Parmesan. 

Goulasch — A Hungarian beef stew, highly 
seasoned. 

Gratins — Served in a rich sauce with browned' 
crumbs. 

Grilled — Broiled over open coals. 

Gratiner — To cook like a grill. 

Galantine — Meat boned, stuffed, made into a 
roll, boiled, and usually served cold in slices. 

Groseilles — Currants. 

Gumbo — A dish into which okra is intro- 
duced and served in it, or prepared sepa- 
rately. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 1057 



Gruyere — ^A brand of fancy cheese. 

Haggis — Heart. 

Haricot — Small bean, or a stew in which 
meats and vegetables are cut small. 

Hodge-Podge — A Scotch meat stew. 

Hors-d'oeuvres — Eelishes, sardines, ancho- 
vies. 

Homard — Lobster. 

Huitres — Oysters. 

Jardinere — Prepared and served with vege- 
tables. 

Julienne — A clear soup with shredded vege- 
tables. 

Jambon — Ham. 

Koumiss — Milk fermented with yeast. 

Kahoh — An India meat dish prepared with 
curry. 

Kirsch-Kuchen — German cherry cake. 

Kippered — ^Dried or smoked. 

Kohl Cannon— Minced cabbage and potatoes 
seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt. 

KromesUes— Meat or fish minced and dipped 
in batter and fried crisp. 

Lardon — A piece of bacon in salt pork used 
for larding purposes. 

Lit — Thin slices or layers. 

Laitue — Lettuce. 

Lentils— A variety of the bean family used 
in soups. 



J058 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Liason — Tlie mixture of eggs and cream used 
to thicken soup, etc. 

Macedoine—A mixture of vegetables or fruits 
moulded in jelly. 

Madeline — A kind of plum cake, 

Maigre — Dishes for fast days, made without 
meat. 

Marinade — The liquor in which fish or meat 
is steeped before cooking. 

Mask — To cover meat with a rich sauce. 

Mango — A kidney - shaped semi - tropical 
fruit used green for pickling and ripe for 
dessert. 

Manna Kroup — Flour made from rice and 
wheat mixed frequently with the yolk of egg 
and saffron. 

Matelote — ^A rich fish stew flavored with 
wine. 

Mayonnaise — Cold sauce or salad dressing 
composed of yolk of eggs, oil, vinegar, and sea- 
soning. 

Marrons-^Chestmits. 

Menu— A bill of fate. 

Majarines — Ornamental entrees of force- 
meat and fillets of poultry, game, or fish. 

Meringue — The white of eggs beaten together 
with powdered sugar to a froth. 

Mignonnette Pepper — Coarsely ground pep- 
percorns. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 1059 



Mirepoix — A rich brown gravy used in brais- 
ing meats. 

Miroton — Meat cut in somewhat larger pieces 
than for collops. 

Morel — A species of mushroom. 

Mouiller — To add broth, water, or other 
liquid while the cooking is proceediug. 

Morue — Codfish. , 

Mouton — Mutton. 

Mousse — Ice cream made with whipped 
cream. 

Nectarine — ^Variety of small peach having a 
smooth sMn. 

Nougat — Candy made from sugar and 
almonds. 

Nouilles — Strips of paste made from eggs 
and flour, dried and used for soup — or sepa- 
rately. 

Noyau — A cordial. 

CEm/5— Eggs. 

Oignons — Onions. 

Okra — Seed pods from a plant grown in the 
South, and used for soup and pickles. 

Panais — Parsnips. 

P(wa<^a— Soaked bread, prepared to be used 
with force-meat. 

Paner — To cover fried or baked foods with 
bread crumbs. 

Panure — Any entree that is bread-crumbed. 



1060 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Papillate — The pieces of paper greased with 
oil and butter, and fastened round a cutlet by 
twisting the edges. 

Pate — A small pastry, usually a pie. 

Pate de fois gras — A composition of goose 
liver, truffles, etc. 
> Paupiettes — Slices of meat rolled. 

Piece de Resistance — The principal joint of 
the dinner (the roast). 

Pilau — A dish of meat and rice (East Indian 
or Turkish). 

Pimento — Jamaica pepper. 

Perdreux- — Partridge. 

Persillade — ^With parsley. 

Petit pains — Little bread. 

Petit pois — Little peas. 

Pigeonnaux — Squab. 

Piquer — To lard with strips of bacon fat. 

Poelee — Stock for boiling turkeys, fowls, 
vegetables, instead of water, so as to render it 
less insipid. 

Potage — Soup. 

Printaniers — Early spring vegetables. 

Puree — A thick soup rubbed through a 
sieve. 

Profiterolles — ^Light pastry with cream in- 
side. 

Pimolas — Olives stuffed with Pimentos. 

Piquante — rA highly seasoned sauce. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING i06l 

Pistachio — A greenish nut resembling the 
almond, ased for flavoring and coloring. 

Polenia — A mush made from Indian meal or 
of ground chestnuts. 

Potafie — ^A family soup. 

Potpmirri — A highly seasoned stew of meat, 
spices, and vegetables, etc. 

Quenelle — A delicate force-meat used in 
entreeri. ' 

Ragout — Stewed meat in rich gravy. 

Reh'ves — The remove dishes. 

Remoulade — Salad dressing. 

Ramekins — Preparation of cheese-puff paste 
or toast. 

Ratafias — Almond cakes; a liquor flavored 
with nuts. 

Ravigote — Highly flavored green herb sauce. 

Rifacimento — Meat dressed a second time. 

Rechauffe — Anything warmed over. 

Ris de veau — Sweetbreads. 

Rissoles— Small shapes of puff paste filled 
with a mixture, and fried or baked. Or balls 
of minced meat, ^gged or crumbed, and fried 
till crisp. 

Risotto— An Italian dish of rice and cheese. 

Roquefort— K brand of fancy cheese. 

Roti — ^A roast. 

Roulad^-Kesii stuffed, skewered into a roll, 
and cooked. 



J062 TERMS USED IN COOKING 



Roiix — Butter and flour stirred together to a 
cream and cooked. A white roux is made with ' 
uncooked flour ; a brown roux with flour that is 
browned. 

Salmi — Game cut up and warmed over in 
gravy with olives, mushrooms, etc. 

Saute — To fry lightly in a little hot fat or 
butter. 

Salpicon — A mince of poultry, ham, and other 
meats used for entrees, or it may be a mixture 
of fruits in a flavored syrup. 

Savoy Cakes — Lady fingers. 

Sauce Piquante — An acid sauce. 

Scones — Scotch cakes of meal or flour. 

Shallot — A variety of onion. 

Soubise SoMce — ^A puree of white onion 
named after Prince Soubise. 

Souffle — A very light pudding or omelet — 
the name means puffed-up. 

Soy — A Japanese sauce prepared from the 
seeds of Dolichos. Soja, used to color soups and 
sauces. 

Serviette, a la — Served in a napkin. 

Sippets — Small pieces of bread soaked in 
stock, fried in fat or toasted and served with 
meats as garnishing or border. 

Stock — The essence extracted from meat. 

Sultanas — White or yellow seedless grapes, 
grown in Corinth. 



TEMVIS USED IN COOKING J063 

Supreme — ^White cream gravy made of 
cMcken. 

Tamis or Tammy — A strainer of fine woolen 
canvas, used for soups and sauces. 

Tarragon — ^An herb from which vinegar is 
made — Cleaves used also for seasoning. 

Tendrons de Veau — The gristle from the 
breast of veal stewed in stock, and served as an 
entree. 

Tartare — A sauce, served with fish. 

Timhak -A sort of pie made in a mould and 
turned out while hot. 

Tarte — A tart baked in a shallow tin. 

Trifle — Dish made from sponge cake, maca- 
roons, jam, etc., brandy, wine, etc. 

Trousser — To truss a bird. 

Truffles — ^A species of fungus growing below 
the soil — found in France^used to give a deli- 
cate flavor, also for garnishing. 

Truite — Trout. 

Turbans — Ornaniental drum-shaped cases for 
entrees. 

Tutti-Frutti — ^A mixture of fruit usually 
served in an ice. 

Vanilla — The bean of a Mexican plant, from 
which the vanilla extract is made. Sometimes 
the bean is pared in to use for flavoring. 

Veau — Veal, 

Velonte — A smooth white sauce. 



1064 * TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Vin — ^Wine. 

Vinaigrette Sauce — ^With vinegar sauce, 

Vol-au-Vent — A crust of very light puff paste 
to be filled with oysters, chicken, etc., prepared 
in a cream sauce. 

Vanner — To make a sauce smooth by lifting 
it high in large spoonfuls and letting it fall 
quickly. 

Zwieback — Bread, toasted twice. 

Zest of Lemon — The grated or shaved rind of 
lemon. 



QUESTIONS. 



LESSON I 

FOOD 

Page. 

1. Why is it necessary to tiave a knowledge of food- 

stuffs as well as how to cook them? 2-3 

2. Why is the proper nourishment of the body of 

highest importance? 2 

3. On what things do the ability to understand food 

depend? 2 

FOOD AND ITS VALUE 

4. What two functions does food perform in the 

body? 

5. What ofHce does the combustion pf food serve in 

our bodies? 5 

SIMPLE. AND COMPOUND FOODS 

6. Name the two sources of food 6 

7. What Ave classes of products do we derive from 

plants ? 6 

8. Name three compound foods of mineral origin. ... 6 

9. Name the four varieties Of simple foods 7 

10. How can the proper proportions of food be sup- 

plied? 8 

THE SIMPLE FOODS 

11. Give some examples of foods that contain aJbumen 

9-10 

12. What quality do aUiuminous foods possess? .... 10 

13. What is coagulation? 10 

1 4 . Name some forms of fats II 

In. What are the prmcipal sources of starch? 11 

IG. What are the principal sources of sugars? 1 1 

17. Explain the uses in the boft of: First, Salts; 

second, Iron; third, Limet rourth. Phosphates. . 12 

18. Why is it necessary to salt our food? 12-13 

1Q45 



1066 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

LESSON II 

COMPOUND FOODS 

Page. 

19. What are the chief constituents of meat? 14 

20. What action has an acid on tough or rare meat . . 15 

21. Which kind of meat is least nutritious, and why? 16 

22. Why is white meat easily digested? 17 

23. State comparative digestibility of fats 18 

24. Why is the nutritive value of bouillon very slight? 20 

25. Of what value is bouillon to the invalid? 20-21 

LESSON III 

MEAT 

26. Name four varieties of meat in order of their nutri- 

tive value 22 

27. Why are the less tender parts more nutritious? . . 23 

28. What three ways should tough meat be cooked, 

arid why? . : 24-25 

29. What three points should be remembered in boil- 

ing meat? 25 

30. What characteristics has good healthy beef? .... 26 

31. What are the best cuts for boiling? 27 

32. Name the cuts the fore-quarter of mutton is-di- 

divided into, and the best manner of cooking 
\ each 29 

33. Give the best methods of determining the tender- 

ness and general condition of poultry 34 

34. Describe the position of the three stitches neces- 

sary in trussing 36 

LESSON IV 
FISH 

35. To what class of food do fish belong? 42 

36. Name the oily fish and state nutritive value 43 

37. Give test for selecting good fish 44 

38. Name American flsh and their seasons 55-58 

39. Why are molluscs dangerous to health? ' 59 

LESSON V 
MILK 

40. Give chief constituents of milk. Name two proper- 
lies of milk that ni^^ sterilization necessary . . .67-69 

41. Give its value as fTRood to the adult and to the 

young 70 

42. What causes rancid butter? 71 



QUESTIONS 1067 



Page. 

43. Name four classes of cheese, with examples of 

each 72-73 

44. Give best method of oaring for cheese 82 

45. State digestibility of cheese and its comparative 

food value 73-83-84 

. LESSON VI 

EGGS 

46. Compare food value of eggs with meat 89 

47. What minerals are present in yolk of eggs? .... 89 

48. What method of cooking renders eggS' more di- 

gestible? 91 

49. Why are fried eggs indigestible? 91 

LESSON VII 
FOODS OF VEGETABLE ORIGIN 

50. In what two ways do vegetable foods differ greatly 

from animal foods ? .' 95 

51. Name the five classes of vegetable foods 95 

52. What are the five cereals and what is their nu- 

tritive value ? 96 

53. Of what constituents is flour composed? 96-97 

54. What chemical changes take place in the rising of 

bread? 97,231 

55. Give reasons for low nutritive value of tubercles 

and roots 98 

56. What food constituent do herbs and green vege- 

tables possess that other vegetables lack? .... 99 

57. Wliy are fruits beneficial to the diet? 100 

58. Name class of vegetable food most rich in nourish- 

ment 100 

59. What offloe' do condiments perform? 100 

60. Name classes of condiments and give example Of 

each 101 

LESSON VIII 
FOOD ESTIMATES 

61. Give two aims of the process of cooking 104 

62. Name three normal diets and explain principles of 

each . 107-108-109 

63. Why is a mixed diet more desirable? 109 

64. What two conditions influence the daily diet? ... Ill 

65. Why should the diet, vary for different persons? 

112-113 



J068 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

LESSON IX 

THE ART OP COOKERY 

Page. 

66. What knowledge besides the actual cooking of 

food is necessary for successful cookery? . .114-115 

67. What is the aim of perfect menu-making? 117 

68. Name two considerations that should influence the 

selection of food .• 117 

69. Give points to be observed in selecLing meats from 

market 126-127 

LESSON XI 

• SOUP STOCK 

70. Explain the general principles of soup-making 

137-138 

71. What is the difference between brown and white 

soup stock ? 141 

, LESSON XTX 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

72. What is the cause of lumpy gravy? 146-147 

LESSON xin 

BOILING 

73. Why is stale boiled water unfit for use? 151 

74. Explain the effect of boiling water on starchy 

foods 152 

75. Why should meat lor boiling be placed in boiling 

water instead of cold water? 153-154 

LESSON XIV 
STEWING 

76. What is the first principle to be observed in 

making a stew? 158-159 

77. Give the difference between a stew and a fricassee 162 

LESSON XV 

FRYING 

,78. Give test for frying 168 

79. What care should be given fat after frying is com- 

pleted? 167 

80. Define casserole, braising and broiUng ..174-177-180 

81. Give principles of baking and process of observ- 

ing them ' 185-186-187 



QUESTIONS J069 



LESSON XX 

ROASTING 

Page. 

82. Why must meat be exposed to great heat in roasl- 

ing instead of slow heat? ,. 189 

83. Give rule governing time of roasting 190 

LESSON XXII 
MIXING BATTERS AND FRITTERS 

84. Why should batters be beaten instead of stirred 

195-196-197 

85. On what does the lightness of pop-overs depend . .200 

LESSON XXIV 

BEVERAGES 

86. What precautions should be observed in making 

tea and coffee, and why? 206-7-8 

LESSON XXV 

VEGETABLES 

87. What point must be observed in cooking all vege- 

tables in water? 209 

88. Why must vegetables not be allowed to stand ex- 

posed to air? 210 

LESSON XXVI 

CEREALS 

89. Why must cereals cook slowly and long? . . . .224-225 

LESSON XXVII 

BREAD 

90. Why should hot water never be used on yeast? 

231-232 

91. What causes sour bread? 232-233 

LESSON XXVIII 

SALADS 

92. Name four points in making salads 288 

LESSON XXIX 
PASTRY 

93. Why should earthenware plates be usefl in baking 

fruit pies? 252 



J070 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Page. 

94. What good and bad effects has baking powder in 

pastry? 249-250 

LESSON XXX 
CAKE BAKING 

95. What is the difference between sponge and layer 

cake? . 2G3-269 

96. Why is the use of a thermometer so essential for 

cake baking 265 

LESSON XXXII 

NUTS 

97. What nuts contain all tissue elements? 276 

LESSON XXXIV 
COOKING FOR INVALIDS 
9?. Why must beef juice be kept at low temperature 

while cooking? •. 289-290 

SOUPS 

1. What is soup stock? 301 

2. Why should soup meat cook very slowly? 303 

3. Of what is the scum that rises on soup composed? 304 

4. Is a clarified stock as nutritious as an unclarified 

one ? 305-306 

5. Why should vegetables not be added to stock if it 

is to be kept any length of time? 302-810 

6. Give the essential difference between beef tea and 

beef soup 310-311 

7. 'What would happen if beef tea should be heated to 

more than steaming point? 312 

8. Why should fat be left on soup when it is to be 

kept for some time? 305-306 

9. What three precautions must be taken to prevent 

cream soups from curdling? 334 

10. Why must the milk be added to tomato cream 

soup after the tomatoes have been thickened? 337 

11. What is the difference between cream soups and 

clear soups ? 309-334 

12. What is the effect of continued boiling on Oyster 

Soup ? 346 

13. Define Bisques 352 

14. Which contains more nourishment, a bisque or a 

broth? ,. .328-352 

15. Why is soda used in making Cheese Bisque and 

Mock Bisque? 357, 358, 359 



QUESTIONS J071 



Page. 
16. How do purees differ from other classes of soups? 

359-360 
n. Why must flour be added to Split-Pea Soup? 

381-382 

18. How can we prevent the beans from settling to 

the bottom in making bean soup? 383 

19. What are frijoles? 385 

20. How do chowders differ from soups? 389 

21. Why are the potatoes soaked in cold water in the 

Fish Chowder recipe? 390 

22. Why should milk be avoided in making Clam 

Chowder? 391 

23. What would result if the flour and butter were 

added to the hot milk before being mixed with 
cold milk in making Corn Chowder? 399 

24. What rule of soup-making does the recipe for Pot 

au Feu violate? 401,402 

25. What season is most suitable for serving fruit 

soups? 403 

FISH 

26. What fish is best adapted for boiling? 408 

27. Why is boiling an unsatisfactory way of cooking 

most fish? ...V 408 

28. Describe an improvised flsh kettle ; 408-4 09 

29. Why is lemon used in the water in which flsh is 

boiled? 409 

30. Give time estimate for boiling flsh 409 

3 1 . What would be the efl'ect of long baking on Fish a 

la Creme? 410 

32. Name several recipes in which remnants of cold 

flsh may be used 409-411-412-413 

33. What effect has long continued soaking on codfish? 419 

34. Why is fresh codfish served in netting when 

boiled? .• 422 

35. Why is the first water discarded in making cod- 

fish balls? 422 

36. Why is it necessary to cook codfish in Cream 

Sauce over hot water? 424 

37. What effect has the cold water on the macaroni in 

the recipe for cod-fish and macaroni? 425 

38. In making Codfish Souffle, why is it important to 

add the whites of eggs last? 427 

39. At what time in the broiling of Mackerel is it best 

to remove the bones? 430 

40. Give the difference between boiling and broiling 

flsh 429-430 

41. What process for cooking mackerel will keep it for 

six months? 431 



J072 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Page. 

42. Name six methods of cooking flsh 430-433-434 

43. Which method is the most hygienic? 429-439 

44. How can fish be prevented from sticking to the 

pan in which it is baked 438 

45! How long should scalloped flsh be baked? . . . .411-441 

46. Give time table for baking salmon trout 442 

47. What is the point of difference ' between Fish 

Souffle and a Scalloped Fish? 411-446-447 

48. What are the keeping qualities of Pickled Salmon? 44 5 

49. What kind of sauce is preferable to be used with 

most fish? 450 

50. What is the time allowed for boiling bass and other 

tender-fleshed flsh? 453 

51. What is the meaning of marinading? 458, 465 

52. What precaution should be taken in moulding 

Crayfish in Jelly? ; 459 

53. What are anchovies and where are they found? . . 460 

54. What is the best frying material fcr flsh? 462 

55. How must Sturgeon be prepared ^or baking, boil- 

ing or panning? 466 

56. What parts of terrapin must be discarded? 467 

57. Why must Lobster a la Newburg be kept from 

boiling? 46P 

58. What is the effect of long cooking on lobster? .... 469 

59. How can you tell when oysters are done? 474 

60. How long should scalloped oysters bake? 479 

61. Give difference between "plain" and "fancy" 

roast of oysters 479 

62. Give examples of a recipe in which oysters can be 

combined with vegetables 480 

63. Give an account of snails 481 

64. What are the best kinds of snails? 481 

SAUCES FOR FISH 

65. Of what importance are sauces to cookery? 483 

66. Give the difference between brown and white 

sauces 483 

67. What effect would direct contact with heat have 

on Tartare Sauce? 485 

68. In what proportion should beef extract be used 

when substituted for brown stock? 487 

69. Name the most expensive sauce? 485 

SAUCES FOR MEATS 

70. Name the most inexpensive hot meat sauce 491 

71. Why Is butter added gradually in making Drawn 

Butter Sauce? 491 

72. How can ihe consistency of Tomato Sauce be al- 

tered? 499 



QUESTIONS J073 



MEATS. 

Page. 

73. What is the proper thickness for steak? 505 

74. How may toughness of steak be remedied, and 

why is this so? .505, 530 

75. Name the choicest cuts of steaks 505 

76. Give time for cooking steaks 506 

77. What two methods of cooking steak are similar 

in results ? 506 

78. Of what advantage is a roasting rack? 511 

79. Why is it necessary to cook the outside of a roast 

quickly? 510 

80. Give time-'table for roasting 511 

81 What effect has slow cooking on stew? 516 

82. State precaution to be used in cooking dumpling 

for stew 517 

83. Name some recipes for using lefL-over meat 

518-519-521 

84. Name three methods of cooking ground meat . .507,527 

85. What chops are best for broiling? 539 

86. , What makes pigs' ears of value as food? 552 

87. What kind of. meat, and how proportioned, is best 

for sausage ? 554 

88. What temperature of oven is best for roasting 

spare-ribs? Why? 562 

89. What sauce best aocompaniea veal? ,. . . 573 

90. What process is necessary before cooking sweet- 

breads? 584-586-587 

91. What stuflElng is best for roast game? 611 

EGGS 

92. Give test for determining fresh eggs. 633 

93. What is the best method of cooking eggs in shell? 

Why? t^ 633-634 

94. Which process prevents the hardening of the 

whites of eggs? .........;..... 634 

95. What method in poaching eggs will prevent the 

whites from spreading? '. 634 

96. What is the most indigestible way of cooking 

eggs? • . ; , 635 

97. On what does the lightness of omelette depend. . 641 

98. Why must the omelette be cooked quickly? .... 641 
99.' What effect will standing have on an omelette? . . 641 

100. Why are small omelettes more successful than 

large ones? 642 

101. Why must additions to omelettes be -folded in, in- 

stead of beaten? 642 

102. Why should the whites be beateil separately in 

making baked omelette ? 645 



J074 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Page. 

103. What process of cooking eggs is mosl digesUtile? 641 

104. What general rule must be observed in serving 

eggs? 636 

105. Why must omelette always be served in a hot 

dish? ■ 641 

106 Name six methods of cooking eggs . .634-635-636,641 
107. What change in the method of cooking has the 

combining of other material with eggs caused? 641 

VEGETABLES 

1, What special benefit to Potato Balls ar^d Stuffed 

Potatoes is the white of egg? 647-648 

2. Why is it necessary to dry raw potatoes before 

frying? 648-649 

1. Why would it be best to beat yolks and whites 

of eggs separately ia making Potato Puff? .... 651 
'i. Why should potatoes be of uniform size when 

cooked together? 653 

5. What would happen if potatoes were not thrown 

in cold water as soon as pared? 653 

6. Potatoes frequently break open when boiling. 

How can this be prevented? 653 

7. What makes soggy potatoes? 654 

S. Why should Brown Potatoes be placed on blotting 

paper before sending to table? .656, 663 

!). Why should the water be boiling violently when 

the rice is first added? 661 

10. What test is used 'to ascertain whether the Rice 

souffle is done? 667 

1 1 . How does the temperature of the oven for Rice 

souffle differ from that of other souffles? .... 

667,941-942 

12. On what four points does the success of a soufilfi 

depend? 667 

13. Of what is macaroni composed? . .'. 667 

14. What rule should always be observed in boiling 

macaroni? 670-671 

15. What is the difference between vermicelli and 

macaroni? 676 

16. By what other name is oyster plant known? 678 

17. When should string beans be boiled without a 

cover? , 687,693 

18. "Why should peas not be washed after shelling? . . 693 

19. What effect would too much soda have on green 

peas? ...• 694 

20. How long should green peas be cooked? 694 

21. What effect will standing in water after being 

cooked have on green corn? 698 



QUESTIONS 1075 

Page. 

22. Why must an inch or two of stem be left on beets 

before cooking? 702 

23. How can the freshness of asparagils be de- 

termined? 710 

24. Is it best to cook cauliflower whole or in pieces? 

724-725 

25. Which is the best method of preserving the color 

of greens? 720 

26. How can cabbages be kept fresh? 721 

27. In pickling cucumbers, what precautions must be 

taken to prevent moulding? 729 

28. Should spinach be boiled covered or uncovered? 

729, 730 

29. What effect has freezing on winter squash? 733 

30. What medicinal power has Onion Porridge? 735 

31. What is the easiest method of removing skins from 

tomatoes? 742, 745 

32. Why should tomatoes be eaten with only a small 

amount of vinegar? 742 

33. How long should tomatoes be stewed? 742, 745 

34. What variety of chestnuts are best for cooking 

purposes? 757 

35. What are truffles? 760 

36. What variety of truffles are best and how are those 

used? 761 

FRUITS AND CEREALS 

37. Why should the white inner skin of lemons and 

oranges always be discarded? 763 

38. How can out bananas be preserved from discolor- 

ation? 766 

39. Why should sugar not be allowed to stand long on 

berries? 773 

40. What rule applies to the preparation of all fresh 

fruits for the table? 772 

41. Why should' the slicing of fresh pineapple be 

avoided? 775 

42. What is the secret of properly cooked oatmeal and 

other cereals? • 776 

BREAD 

43. Why must dough be carefully covered while 

rising? • • • '^'^^ 

44. What benefit is the buttering of loaves , before 

baking? --. • "^"^^ 

45. What time should be allowed for the bakmg of 

bread? ' '^''8 



J076 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Page. 

46. Why must care be taken to keep the temperature 

of liquids to be used in bread and rolls luke- 
warm? 782 

47. How can toast be softened temporarily? 794 

48. What precaution is taken to prevent milk from 

curdling in making Cream Toast? 795 

49. What effect would standing in a warm room have 

on Tutti-Frutti Sandwiches? 790 

50. What salad dressing is most suitable in making 

sandwiches of salad greens? 803 

51. How may sandwiches be kept moist and fresh after' 

making? 807 

52. What advantage is gained by cutting crusts from 

sandwiches ? , 807 

BATTER CAKES 

53. What should be the consistency of all batters? . . . 808 

54. What kind of apples are best for Fritters? 811 

CAKES 

55. What are the characteristics of properly made 

griddle cakes? 813 

56. What would be the result if grease were put upon 

the griddle ? 813 

57. How does the batter for griddle cakes differ in 

consistency from other batters? 813 

58. How does the preparation of baking powder in 

Buckwheat Cakes differ from other kinds?. .813, 817 

59. On what does the lightness, of Popovers depend?. . 822 

60. Why should Huckleberry Shortcake be broken 

instead of out? 824-825 

61. Why should the dry ingredients be sifted so often 

in making Angel Food? 825 

62. On what does the sucess of Angel Pood depend?. . 825 

63. Why must Angel Food be baked very slowly?. . . . 825 

64. Why are the dry ingredients added alterbately 

with the milk and eggs in Bride's Cake? 826 

65. Why is not baking powder used with sweet milk 

in making Devil's Cake? . 829 

66. By adding, separately, whites of eggs as a last 

ingredient to cake batter, what jDeneflt is de- 
rived? 832 

67. Why is it best for Wedding Cake to be made 

several weeks before using? 833 

08. Hovv long should Wedding Cake be beaten? 834 

69. What advantage is it to line the pan with paper 

in baking Wedding Cake? 834 

70. What is the rule for baking loaf cakes?. .832, 836, 838 



QUESTIONS J077 



Page. 

71. How does the temperature of the oven for fruit 

cakes differ from that for larger cakes? 840 

72. How can a Pound Cake be kept from becoming too 

brown on top? 841 

73. How can Pound Cake be tested to ascertain 

whether sufficiently baked? 842 

74. What precaution should be observed in cooling 

Pound Cake ? 842 



FILLINGS AND ICINGS 

75. Why is it necessary to cook Cream Filling in a 

double boiler ? , -.,.... 844 

76. Why add egg yolks after the milk is thickened in 

making Chocolate Filling? . .' 844 

77. What would happen if the syrup were added 

suddenly to beaten whites in making Boiled 
Icing? 845 

78. In what temperature oven should cookies be 

baked? 847 

79. Why do drop cakes require a quicker oven than 

cookies ? 848, 850 

80. How thick should doughnut dough be? 852 

SALADS AND RELISHES 

81. What proportion of oil and vinegar is best in 

French Dressing? 855 

82. Why should French Dressing not be allowed to 

stand? 857 

83. Why should the Ingredients of Mayonnaise Dress- 

ing be kept very cold? 857 

84. At what season of the year are salads most bene- 

ficial? 861 

85. What should characterize all green vegetables 

used in salads? 861 

86. What salads are seasonable in winter? . .863, 865, 869 

87. How can dandelion leaves be Srisped? 870 

88. Why should salads be served immediately after 

mixing? 861, 875, 876, '894 

89. How should the celery and lobster be proportioned 

in Lobster Salad? 879 

90. Why should apples be cut instead of chopped for 

salad? 890, 892 

91. How can you oreserve the green color of gherkins 

when pickled? 902 

92. All the recipes for sour pickles demand that they 

stand in salt water for some time. Why is this 
so? 902, 903 



J078 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

INVALID COOKERY 

Page. 

93. What is the best method of removing fat from 

broth ? 906 

94. What precaution should be observed in making 

calve's foot jelly? 908 

PRESERVING 

95. What points must be observed in canning fruit to 

insure its keeping? 918 

DESERTS 

90. In what temperature of oven should pastry be 

baked? 921-922 

97. Why is it so necessary to serve a soufDc; im- 

mediately? 941-9/i2 

98. How do parfaits differ from ice-cream ? . .965, 966, 969 

99. How does a mousse differ from a parfait? 

969, 971, 972 

100. What influence has a surplus of sugar on freez- 

ing? 974 

101. What composes a Water Ice? 974 

102. Why should flavoring never be added to candy 

before cooking? 979 

CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

1 . Why is it best to prepare food as much as possible 

before use in chafing dish? 993-994 

2. When is it necessary to remove the water-pan?. . 994 

3. Should omelette be cooked with or without the 

water-pan ? 999 

NUTS 

4. Of what value are nuts as food? 1005 

5. What method is used to free almonds of their 

skin? 1006 

6. How can nut butter be thinned? 1006 

7. In serving nut souffle, what precautions must be 

observed? ■ 1006 

CARVING 

8. What three things are necessary to become a 

good carver? 1010 

9. Why is it a mistake for the head of the table to 

do all the carving? 1010 

10. What points are to be avoided when carving? . . . .1011 

11. What is the first essential to good carving? 1010 



QUESTIONS J079 



Page. 

12. What is the first thing to do when the meat is set 

before you? 1011 

13. How should the fork be used? 1011 

14. If the meat is tough, what- is the duty of the 

carver toward the hostess? 1012 

15. In cutting a rib roast, how should the meat be cut 

in relation to the ribs? 1012 

16. How should a sirloin roast be cut? 1013 

17. What advantage is gained by cutting steak in 

strips? 1013 

18. How wide should the strips be? 1014 

19. Why should the outer slice of Corned Beef be 

discarded? 1014 

20. Why should Leg of Mutton be carved from the 

center first? 1014 

21. What are the most choice portions of tongue? . ... 10 1 5 

22. What difference should be made between carving 

ham and mutton ? 1015 

23. In carving Breast of Veal, which is sliced first, 

the brisket or the ribs? . . 101 fi- 

24. In carving fowl, where must the fork be placed? . . lOn 

25. What parts must be removed first? 1017 

26. What portion of Wild Duck is left uncarved? 1019 

27. Why should a steel knife never be used in carving 

fish? 1020 

28. What are the best cuts of Rabbit? 1019 

29. What should be avoided in serving fish? 1020 

30. Why is it important to carve Boiled Pish quick- 

ly? 1020 



BEVERAGES 

3J. Why is boiling water added to coffee very slow- 
ly? 1021 

32. How can the strength of coffee be increased?. . . 1021 

33. What is the most nutritious method of preparing 

coffee? 1021 

34. How does black coffee differ from other coffee? . . 1021 

35. Why is it necessary to have water freshly boiled 

for coffee or tea? , 1023 

36. What effect will standing with the grounds have on 

coffee or tea? 1023 

37. What is the purpose of the long boiling of cocoa 

shells? 1021 

38. Why must chocolate be first mixed with cold 

water before adding to hot liquid? 102 i 

39. Which beverage contains the most nourishment? 1025 

40. Why must the milk be warmed for Koumiss? 1023 

41. How long should Koumiss stand before using? . . . 1026 



1080 THE COOKING SCHOOL 

Page. 

42. What is the purpose of chilling Koumiss as soon 

as it has worked? 1026 

43. What advantage is derived from putting the roots 

in cold water in making Root Beer? 1026 

4 4. What test proves that fermentation is completed 

in making cider? 1027 

45. Should the syrup be cooled before pouring over 

orange rinds in making Orangeade? Why?.. 1028 

46. What proportion of lemon to a glass of water Is 

best in making Lemonade? 1030 

47. Would it be a good idea to beat the egg before 

adding to Lemonade? 1031 

48. What benefit is the orange oil to the Lemon- 

ade? 1031 

49. What detriment to Lemonade would result if 

seeds were allowed to stand in it? 1031 

50. What mixture in the soda water causes it to 

effervesce? 1032 

51. Why is filtering so important in making Black- 

berry Wine? 1033-1034 

52. Why is" beet-root added to Currant Wine? 1034 

53. Why is elderberry especially adapted for wine- 

mnking? 1036 

54. How does Elderberry Wine differ from others in 

keeping qualities? 1037 

55. What peculiarity makes the morillo cherry best 

fitted for Cherry Brandy? 1038 

56. How long ought Apricot Brandy stand before 

using? 1039 

57. For what ailment is Dandelion Wine especially 

beneflci.nl? ■ lO'^" 

58. Why should the bottles for Grape Wine be laid 

on their sides when filled? 1040-1041 



INDEX 



Acids, effect of vinegar, 

lemon, etc., 101 
Adelaide sandwich, 803 
Alaska baked ice cream, 968 
Albumen, 9, 10 
Almond and orange ice, 975 

cake, 826 

chocolate drops, 985 

creams, 985 

jumbles, 849 

milk soup, 334 

sauce for pudding, 959 
Amber, oonsommS, 314 
American soup, 383 
Anchovies, 460 

and olives, 897 . 

eggs stuffed with, 638 

stuffed, 896 

substitute for caviare, 
898 
Anchovy paste, 898 

sandwich, 807 

sauce, 494 
Angel food, 825 
Animal diet, 108 
Anise-seed cakes, 848 
Apples, baked, 767 

in pastry, 770 

steamed, 195, 227 

stewed, 769 

stewed in whiskey, 768 
Apple butter, 920 

butter, American, 769 

dumpling, baked, 921 

gems, 792 

mange, 947 

meringue, 937 

pie, green, 921 

pie, Dutch, 922 

pie, cream, 922 
- pudding, Enghsh, 928 
Apple sauce, 770 

snow (No. 1), 944, 948 

soup, 404 



Apple, tapioca pudding, 935 

water, 284, 905 
Apricot brandy, 1039 
, custard, 946 

fritters, 809 

ice cream, 962 
Arabian coffee, 1022 
Arrowroot jelly, 906 

souffle, -940 
Artichokes i I'ltalienne, 714 

fried, 712 

Jerusalem, fricasseed, 713 

Jerusalem, stewed, 712 

pur^e of Jerusalem, 714 

stewed in gravy, 712 

stuffed, 713 
Asparagus, 215 

h. la crfeme, 711 

boiled, 710 

fricasseed, 711 

omelet, 642 

scalloped, 709 

soup, cream of, 350 

tips, consomme with, 316 
Aspic game or poultry, 624 

jelly, 914 
Avena, steamed, 225 



Bacon, 31 

baked eggs and, 636 

boiled, 565 

broiled, 565 

calf's liver and, 579 

and calf's liver, 565 

and eggs, 566 

mushrooms with, 683 
Baked apples, 767 

bass with shrimp sauce, 
454 

beans, Boston, 557 

bean soup, 382 

beefsteak k la Jardinifire, 
530 



1081 



1082 



INDEX 



Baked blueflsh, 416 

calf's head, 572 

calf's heart, 630 

carp, 465 

cauliflower, 715 

chicken, 596 

chowder, 417 

cod's head, 420 

crabs, 471 

creamed codfish, 418 
- eels, 450 

egg-plant, 705 

eggs and bacon, 636 

eggs and tomatoes, 750 
■ fish, 187 . 

fresh mackerel with 
oyster dressing, 431 

fried chicken, 597 

halibut with lobster 
sauce, 438 

mushrooms, 683 

omelet, 645 

partridges, 616 

pickerel, 464 

pike in sour cream (Ger- 
man), 4C2 

pur6e, 697 

red snapper, 455 

salmon-trout, 442 

salt mackerel, 187 

sausages, 556 

shad, 432 

smelts, 446 

soft clams, 479 

tomatoes with eggs, 747 
Baking, casserole, 177 

process, 185 

time table, 295 
Ballotin of lamb, with green 

peas, 546 
Balnamoon skink, or Irish 

soup, 332 
Banana fritters, 810 

shortcake, 824 
Banbury tarts, 923 
Barley gruel, 905 

soup, cream of, 343 

water, 905 
Bass, baked, with shrimp 
sauce, 454 



Basting, 189 

Batters, 196 

Bavarian cream, 955 

Bean and tomato soup, 379 

(baked) soup, 382 

(dried) soup, 369 

(lima) pur^e, 360 

(red), pur^e, 359 

(mock turtle) soup, 3S0 

soup, 382 

(tomato and) soup, 375 

(white) soup, 373 
Beans, boiled, '218 

Boston baked, 575, 692 

dried, 221 

French, & la maltre 
d'hatel, 687 

fricasseed, 690 

haricot (lima beans), h. 
la maitre d'hOtel, 68R 

haricot, with onions, 080 

kidney, 691 

lima, k la poulette, 689 

nlashed, 690 

string beans, 215 

string, boiled, 686 

string (cream sauce), 
687 

string, with gravy, 687 
Beauregard cod, 421 
Bechamel sauce, 495 
Beef Ji la mode, 515 

and chicken stock, 308 

appearance of good 26 

balls, 526 

bouillon, 309 

braising recipe, 175 

brisket of, stewed, 533 

corned, 534 

creamed dried, 525 
Beef, curried, 526 

dried, with eggs, 525 

flUet of, braised, 533 

fore-quarter of, 27 

fricandeau of, 536 

fritters, 535 

hash, 518 

heart, boiled, 532 

hind-quarter of, 27 

hot-pot, 531 



INDEX 



(083 



Beef, how divided by 
butcher, 27 
juice, 289 
liver, breaded, 523 
loaf, 527 
most nourishing of meats, 

22 
mutton, and veal brQth, 

906 
names of different parts, 

126 
patties, 'meat for, 535 
porterhouse steak, 27 
pot roast, 175 
prime ribs, 27 
ragoOt of, 519 
r^ohauff^ k la Jardiniere 

526 
rissoles of, 518 
roast recipe, "don'ts," 

190 
rolled boiled, 530 
sides of, 27 
sirloin, 27 
smothered, 522 
soup, 310, 321 
snup (French method) 

144 
spiced pressed, 520 
steaks, 27 \ 
steaks, short, 27 
steak and onions, 509 
steak, baked, k la jar- 
diniere, 530 
steak pie, 593 
steak with mushrooms, 

508 
stew, recipe, 162 
Beef stew with dumplings, 

516 
tea, 281, 289, 906 
tea, hot, 1025 
tenderloin of, 27 
tongue, braised (No. 1), 

532 
tongue fillets, sautged, 

629 
Beer soup (German 

method), 402 



Beet greens with young 
beets, 703 
soup, cream of, 338 

Beets, 702 
boiled, 220 
creamed, 704 
pickled, 704 

selecting, washing, cook- 
ing, 212 

Belgian hare, 40 

hare, stuffed and roasted, 
616 

Bernaise sauce, 500 

Beverages, 205 . 

apricot brandy, 1039 
beef tea, 1025 
blackberry wine, 1033 
cherry brandy, 1038 
cherry wine, 1039 
chocolate, 1024 
cider, 1027 , 
cocoa, 1024 
cocoa shells, 1024 
coffee, various styles, 

1021, 1022 
cowshp wine, 1035 
curaeoa, 1037 
currant wine, 1034 
dandelion wine, 1040 
elderberry whie, lO^Ci 
ginger beer, 1029, 1030 
ginger cordial, 1038 
grape juice, 1041 
grape wine, 1040, 1041 
horse's neck, 1032 
koumiss, 1025 
lemonade, various styfes, 
1030, 1031 

Beverages — limeade, 1027 
May wine, 1035 
milk and seltzer, 1025 
milk shake, 1025 
nectar, 1032 
orangeade, 1028 
orange sherbet, 1032 
pineapple water, 1029 
rhubarb Wine, 1041 
root beer, 1026 
Saratoga cooler, 1030 
seidlitz water, 1026 



t084 



INDEX 



Beverages, soda cocktail, 

1032 

soda nectar, 1032 

tea punch, 1024 

lea, various styles, 1023 
Biscayan cod, 419 
Biscuit, 234, 970 

glace, 972 

tortoni, 974 
Bisque, ctieese, 357 

chicken, 353 

clam, 352 

corn, 357 

of crabs, 356 

of halibut (No. 1), 353 

of lobster, 355 

mock, 358 

oyster, 355 

salmon, 354 

tomato (No. 1), 358 
Black bass, boiled, with 

cream gravy, 453 
Blackberry pudding, 936 

wine, 1032 
Blanching, 203 
Blancmange, Irish moss, 

corn starch, 290 
Blanquette of lamb, 545 

of veal, with cucumbers, 
582 
Bloaters, broiled, 456 
Blueflsh, baked, 416 

broiled, 415 
Bohemian ice cream, 964 
Boiled asparagus, 710 

bacon, 565 
BCiled beef, rolled, 530 

beef's heart, 532 

beets, 704 

black bass, with cream 
gravy, 453 

cabbage, 722 

calves' tongue, 573 

carrots, 708 

celery, 706 

dinner, old-fashioned, 
524 

eggs, 633 

fresh codfish, 422 

halibut, 438 



Boiled leg of mutton, 539 

mutton, recipe, 156 

parsnips, 685 

potatoes, recipe, 155 

red snapper, 455 

salmon, 441 

salmon- trout, 443 

sausages, with white 
wine, 557 

soft-shell crabs, 470 

string beans, 686 

sweetbreads, plain, 586 

sweetbreads with tomato 
sauce, 586 

water, when not to use, 
151 

winter squash, 733 
Boiling; effect in food ele- 
ments, 151 

meat, 25, 154 

meat, effect, 153 

meat for stews and fri- 
cassees, 154 

process, 150 

time table, 297 

vegetables, 155 

vegetables, whole in soft 
water, 154 

water containing salt or 
sugar, 153 

water, soft and harh, 153 
Bonbons, 979 

Boned baked pickerel, 465 
Bones, stock from, 307 
Boning, 203 
Boning — recipe, 204 
Boston baked beans, 557, 
692 

brown bread, 781 
Bouillabaisse, 400 
Bouillon, beef, 309 

nutritive value slight, 19 

stimulating effect of, 20 
Brain„ calf's, breaded, 574 

sauce, 574 
Braised beef, recipe, beef's 
tongue (No. 1), 532 

fillet of beef, 533 

fillet of mutton, 541 



INDEX 



]085 



Braised, or smothered 

sweetbreads, 589 
Braising process, 174 
Bread, 229 
Boston brown, 781 

breakfast rolls, 786 

crumbs, 216 

custard pudding, 938 

dressing for game, 503 

entire wheat, 235 

for turliey, 603 

fried for soup, 794 

Graham, 235 

made with a sponge, 235 

making, essentials, 229 

making, fermentation, 
233 

nutritive quality, analysis, 
etc., 97 

raised corn bread, 236 

raised muffms, 236 

recipes, 234 

sauce, 501 

sour, how caused, 233 

sticks, 782 

cheese toast, 797 

coffee-bread, 785 

cream toast, 795 

creamed mushroom toast, 
796 

egg muffms, 791 

Enghsh muffins, 788 

fried or French toast, 795 
Breads — Graham, 780 

Graham muffins, 790 

Graham rolls, 787 

German toast, 793 

hominy muffins, 790 

hot cross buns, 788 

milk toast, 795 

oatmeal muffins, 791 

oyster toast, 796 

Parker House rolls, 787 

plain corn, 781 

pulled, 779 

rice muffins, 790 

rusk, 784 

rye, 781 

Scotch shortbread, 785 

Scotch soda scones, 785 



Bread, Sally Lunn, 784 

Sally Lunn muffins, 790 

toast, buttered, 793 

unfermented, 779 

Virginia corn, 780 

whole wheat, 779 

zwieback, 796 
Breaded calf's brains, 574 

beef's liver, 523 

veal cutlets, with tomato 
sauce, 568 
Bread pudding, light, 907 

hominy (boiled), 776 

rolls, English, 789 
Breast of lamb, roasted k 
la Milanese, 545 

of veal, stuffed, 572 
Brioche paste, 253 
Brisket of beef, stewed, 

533 
Brochettes, lamb, 547 
Broiled bacon, 565 

bloaters, 456 

blueflsh, 415 

brook trout, 463 

calf's liver, 578 

canvas-back duck, 608 

green corn, 702 

halibut, 439 

ham, 566, 

lamb chops, 549 

mackerel, 42& 
Broiled mackerel, and tarra- 
gon butter, 430 

mushrooms, 679 

mutton chops, 539 

oysters, in the shell, or on 
the half shell, 475 

oysters on toast, 476 

pheasant, 649 

pork and Chili sauce, 551 

pork chops, 560 

salt cod, 420 

shad, 434 

smoked salmon, 444 

steak, recipe, 183 

sweetbreads with stuffed 
tomatoes, 587 

teal ducks, 609 

venison steaks, 621 



1086 



INDEX 



Broiling chickens, time for, 
182 
e'ssentials for 180 
meat, test for, 182 
meat, use of buttered 

paper, 182 
pan -broiling, 183 
time-taBle for, 184 
time-table, 297 
Brook trout, broiled, 463 
Broth, beef, mutton, and 
veal, 906 
calves' feet, 908 
chicken, 328, 909 
clear, 907 
mutton, 328, 912 
Scotch mutton, 330 
veal, 912 
Broths, white, with vermi- 
celli, 914 
Brown-bread pudding, 938 
Brown sauce, 493 
Browned potato soup, 37§ 
Brunette sandwich, 806 
Brunoise soup, 312 
Brussels sprouts, 719 
sprouts, saut6, 720 
sprout, consomm6 with. 
316 
Buckwheat cakes, -817 
Buns, hot cross, 788 
Burdwan, Indian, 606 
sugar (for sauces and 
soups), 407 
Butter, apple, American, 
769 
cakes, 791 
mattre d'hOtel, 495 
nut, 1006 

over-salted, bad for 
cooking :' cheap butter 
not economical, 71 
Scotch, 979 
Buttered toast, 793 



Cabbage, 213 
h la Lilloise, 721 
and bacon, 718 
boiled, 218, 722 



Cabbage, creamed, 719 

how to keep fresh, 721 

soup, cream of, 345 

stuffed, 720 

Swiss, 725 
Caf6 au lait, 1021 
Cake,- almortds for, 266 

chemistry of, 262 

containing butter baked 
by moderate heat, 263 

egg frosting, 271 

eggs, how treated, 266 

frosting, boiled, 270 

gingerbread, 270 

lemon peel used, 266 

light, 268 

making, 262 

molasses, 269 

plain frosting, 271 

plain recipe, 267 

sponge, 269 

sugar for, 266 

sunshine frosting, 271 
Cakes, almond, 826 

angel food, 825 

anise-seed, 848 

apricot fritters, 809 

apple gems, 792 

banana fritters, 810 
Cakes — ^banana shortcake, 
824 

Bride's, 826 

buckwheat, 817 

butter, 791 

caramel,. 831 

care in getting flour, 266 

care of butter, 265 

care of currants, 265 

cheese, 843 

cherry shortcake, 824 

chocolate cream, 828 

citron, 840 

clam fritters, 808 

cocoanut layer, 827 

corn, 823 

corn fritters, 811 

corn-meal griddle, 816 

cream, 835 

cream pancakes, 820 

currant, 842 



INDEX 



J087 



Cakes, dark fruit, 840 

devil's, 829 

drop, 848 

electric, 836 

English pancakes, 818 

English walnut, 830 

fish, 410 

fish and meat fritters, 809 

'flannel cakes, 817 

for card party, 830 

for musical, 828 

fortune, 837 

fritters (batters), 807 

fruit, 832 

gold, 886 

Graham gems, 792 

Graham griddle, .814 

griddle, 198 

griddle, Geneva, 815 

griddle, with eggs, 814 

hickory nut, 830 

hoe, 823 

hominy griddle, 818 

honigkuchen, 843 

huckleberry, 835 

huckleberry griddle, 815 
Cakes — huckleberry short- 
cake, 824 

Indian griddle, 816 

jelly, 887, 

Johnny, 822 

lemon, 837 

lemon cheese, 843 

marbled,' 831 

marshmallow, 838 

Mocha, 826 

orange,. 838 

orange fritters, 810 

oyster fritters, 808 

pancakes, 818 

pancakes (h la cr6me), 
819 

pancakes, French, 820 

pancakes, German, 821 

pancakes, plain, 819 

pancakes, snow, 820 

pancakes, without eggs, 
821 

peach fritters, 811 ^ 

peach shortcake, 824 



Cakes, pineapple fritters, 810 
popovers, 822 
puffball fritters, 811 
plain layer, 829 
pound, 841 

raspberry shortcake, 821 ' 
rice gems, 79.2 
rice griddle, 816 
rice waffles, 812 
rum, 839 

Russian punch tart, 843 
rye griddle, 814 
shortcake, 823 
silver, 829 
small, 847 
snow, 830 

Southern corn pone, 823 
sponge, 839 
strawberry shortcake, 

824 
sunshine, 827 
Thanksgiving surprise, 

889 
vegetable fritters, 811 
violette, 8 29 
wedding, 8 32 
wheat, 813 
Calf's brains, breaded. 574 
foot consommS, 314 
head, baked, 575 
liver and bacon, 565, 5-79 
liver and onions saut^ed, 

579 
liver, broiled, 578 
longue, boiled, 573 
r-ives' feet broth, 908 
Calves' feet jelly, 908 
Canap6 caviare, 897 
Candies, almond chocola te 

drops, 985 
almond creams, 985 
bonbons, 979 
butterscotch, 979 
chocolate caramels, 980 
Comanche, 984 
conked cream walnuts, 

981 
cream caramels, 980 
• cream cocoanut, 981 
fudges, 983 



toss 



INDEX 



Candies, general directions, 
978 

hickory-nut, 982 
how to pull candy, 979 
lefnon and peppermint 

drops, 980 
maple sugar caramel, 983 
nougat, 984 
peanut brittle, 983 
plain taffy, 981 
Penuchi, 983 
popcorn balls, 986 
uncooked creamed nuts, 

982 
velvet molasses, 982 
Canning fruit, 917 
apple butter, 920 
chipped gingered pear, 

918 
jam, 919 
marmalade, 919 
Canvas-back duck, broiled, 

608 
Canvas-back duck, roasted, 

608 
Caper sauce, for boiled 
mutton, 156 
sauce for mutton, 501 
Capon, 34-37 

roasted with cream stuff- 
ing, 604 
Caramel filling for cake, 
845 
(for sauces and soups), 

407 
ice cream, 968 
pudding, 942 
syrup, 201 
Carp, 49 

baked, 465 
Carrot pur^e, 360 

soup, 377 
Carrots, 213, 221 

(a, la Flamande), 707 
boiled, 708 

how to dress in the Ger- 
man way, 709 
stewed in cream, 709 
• Carving, beefsteak, 1013 
boned chicken, 1019 



Carving, breast of veal, 1016 
broiled chicken, 1019 
chicken, boned and 

broiled, 1019 
chicken or turkey, 1017 
corned beef, 1014 
duck, 1018 
fillet of veal, 1016 
flsh, 1020 
flsh, planked or broiled, 

1020 
fore-quarter of lamb, 

1015 
goose, 1018 
ham, l0l5 
hare, 1019 

haunch of venison, 1016 
lamb, fore-quarter of, 

1015 
leg of 'mutton, 1014 
loin of veal, 1015 
mutton, leg of, 1014 
mutton, saddle of, 1016 
partridge, pheasant, quail, 

1019 
pig, sucking, 1017 
rabbits, 1019 
rib roast, 1012 
saddle of mutton, 1016 
sirloin roast, 1012 
steaks, round and rump, 

1014 
sucking pig, 1017 
tongue, 1014 
turkey or chicken, 1017 
veal, breast of, 1016 
veal, fillet, 1016 
veal, loin of, 1015 
venison, haunch of, 1016 
woodcock, snipe, and 

plover, 1019 
Casserole, 177 
of fish, 413 
rice and meat, 178 , 
tomato sauce, 178 
Catfish, fried, 464 
Catsup, mushroom, 684 

tomato, 904 
Cauliflower, 213 
au gratin, 716 



INDEX 



H)89 



Cauliflower, baked, 715 
boiled with butter sauce, 

715 
escalloped, 715 
how to cools, 714 
in cheese, 718 
soup, cream of, 351 
with stuffing, 717 
In tomato sauce, 717 
Cavea<!h, mackerel, 431 
Caviare, anchovies substi- 
tuted for, 898 
oanapg, 897 
Celery, 213 
boiled, 706 
how to dress, 706 
how to fry, 707 
soup, cream of, 351 
stewed {h la crfeme), 706 
Cereals, breakfast hominy 
(boiled), 776 
fried hominy, 776 
cooking, 224 
hominy croquettes, 777 
milk porridge, 777 
nutritive value, composi- 
tion, etc., 96 
porridge, oatmeal, 775 
Chafing-dish recipes: 
broiled chicken, 1003 
broiled oyster, 998 
calfjs brains with scram- 
bled eggs, 995 
cheese omelet, 1001 
clams k la Newburg, 995 
crab meat with green 

peppers, 996 
creamed mushrooms, 

1004 
creamed toast, 1002 
creamed chicken, 1003 
creamed codfish, 998 
creamed lobster, 998 
Deerfoot farm sausages 

and bacon, 993 
flnnan haddie, 1004 
French omelet, 1000 ' 
httle pigs in blankets, 

996 
lobster k la Newburg, 997 



Chafing-dish recipes, nut 

omelet, 1001 

omelet, 999 

oysters k la Newburg, 997 

oyster rarebit, 997 

poached eggs with an- 
chovy or caviare, 993 

preparation of, 993 

rum omelet, 1001 

scrambled eggs, 1002 

Spanish omelet, 1000 

sweetbreads k la crfeme, 
996 

sweetbread saul6, 995 

sweet omelet, 1001 

terrapin, 999 

tripe k la Creole, 995 

tripe Si la poulette, 995 

veal kidney saut6, 994 

Venetian eggs, 994 

Welsh rarebit, 1002 
Champagne, 97-8 

sauce for ham, 498 
Charlotte russe, 944 
Cheese, analyses, 84 
Cheese and halibut scallop, 
441 

and nut sandwich, 800 

bisque, 357 

cream soup. No. 1 and 2, 
336 

digestibility of, 73 

dishes, recipes, 85 

eggs with, 636 

fondue, 988 

fritters, 989 

Parmesan cheese and oys- 
ters, 990 

head, 564 

manufacture and varieties 
of, 72-82 

omelet, 642, 989 

pudding, 990 

Welsh rarebit, 986 

Welsh rarebit. No. 2, 987 

Welsh rarebit, without 
ale, 987 

sandwich, 799 

sauce, 490 

soufflg. No. 2, 988 



J090 



INDEX 



Cheese, straws, 991 

cherry, 991 

very nutritious, 83 
Cherries (raw), 775 
Cherry pudding, 936 

shortcake, 824 

wine, 1039 
Chestnuts, 1007 

compete of, 758 

consomme, 319 

cream of, soup, 349 

dressing, 503 

pur^e of, 757 

roasted, 759 

sauce for turkey or 
chicken, 496 

stewed, 758 

stuffing, 603 

stuffing for pig, sucking, 
561 
Ghicken-and-ham pie, 529 

and rice pudding, 603 

baked, 596 

baked, fried, 597 

beef and, stock, 308 

bisque, 353 

broth, 328 

broth (invalids), 909 

carving, 1017, 1019 

casserole, 177 

cream soup, 341 

curry, 599 

en casserole, 600 

for roasting, 33 

fricassee, 164 

fricasseed, 599 

fried, 596 

gumbo, 330 

gunibo with oysters, 331 

minced, 909 

patties, 593 

pie, 591 

pilau of, 600 

potpie, 528 

pressed, 598 

salad rolls, 889 

sandwich, 798 

sauce for sweetbreads, 
498 

scalloped, 597 



Chicken, soup quickly made, 

312 

soup with leeks and 
onions, 312 

spring chickens, 32, 33 

stuffed with oysters, 601 

terrapin, 598 

timbales, 601, 631 

with sauce (invalid), 909 

with sippets, 910 
Chickens, time for boilTng," 

182 
Chili sauce, 904 
Chive sauce, 497 
Chocolate, 208, 1024 

cream filling, 844 

filling, 844 

ice cream, 963 

mouss^, 971 

pie, 926 

pudding, 936 
Chops, lamb, with cham- 
pagne sauce, 547 

mutton and lamb, 29 

mutton, broiled, 539 

mutton, pan-broiled, 340 

pork, broiled, 560 

pork, fried, 560 
Chorissa, or Jewish saiisagp, 

537 
Chowchow, 899 
Chowder, baked, 417 

(clam), 391 

(coj'n), 398 

defined, 161 

farmer's chowder, 374 

(fish), 389 

(French fisherman's), 392 

(potato), 397 

(soft-clam), 392 
Chutney, Indian, 900 
Cider, 1027 

soup, 404 
Clam bisque, 352 

chowder, 391 
Clams, 358 

baked soft, 479 

fritters, 479 

(soft) chowder, 392 



INDEX 



mi 



Cleaning fish, 44 

poultry, 36 
Clear soup with noodles, 313 
Cock-a-leekie soup, 366 
Cocoa, 208, 1024 
Gocoanut, 1007 
Cocoa shells, 1024 
Cocoanut filling, 844 

soup, 370 
Cod a, la Bechamel, 418 
Beauregard, 421 
Biscayan, 419 
salt, broiled, 420 
salted with brown butter, 

419 
tongues, fried, 429 
tongues, poulette, 429 
Cod tongues with black 
butter sauce, 429 
tongues with egg sauce, 
428 
Cod's head, baked, 420 
Codfish a la bonne femme, 
424 
balls, 422 
boiled, fresh, 422 
baked, creamed, 418 
cakes, 423 
creamed salt, 421 
fillets, Hollandaise, 423 
hash, 424 

in cream sauce, 424 
maltre d'hfitel, 423 
souffle, 427 
stewed, 427 
with macaroni, 425 
Coffee, 280 

after dinner (French), 

207 
"after dinner," or black, 

1021 
Arabian, 1022 
Coftee-bread, 785 
Coffee, breakfast, 1021 
effects of use of, 206 
ice cream, 963 
iced, 1022 
recipes, 205 
vegetarian, 1022 



Colbert consomm^, 318 
Cold meat, vinaigrette of, 
581 
slaw, 240 
Combinations, 298 
Compdte of chestnuts, 758 

of fruit, 774 
Condiments, classified and 

defined, 100 
Consomm6 a I'Impgratrice, 
318 
almond, 314 
amber, 314 
calf's foot, 314 
chestnut, 319 
Colbert, 318 
curry, 319 
duchess, 318 
spinach, 319 
with asparagus tips, 316 
with egg -balls, 315 
with mushrooms, 317 
marrow balls for, 317 
printanifere 321 
royal, 320 
stock for, 308 
with asparagus tips, 316 
with cucumber, 316 
with tomato blocks, 320 
with vermicelli, 317 
Cooked snipes (German 

fashion), 620 
Cookery for invalids, 279 
for invalids, (see also 

"Invalid cookery") , 905 
art of, 114 
Cookies, molasSes, 848 

plain, 847 
Cooking, definitions of terms, 
1046-1064 
meats, when to use slow 
fire; object of cooking 
in water, 24 
school, the object and 
scope of this volume, 
2-4 
table of average cost of 
material used in, 294 
time-table for, 295 
twofold object of, 104 



J092 



INDEX 



Goquilles of fish (No. 1), 

409 
Cordial, ginger, 1038 
Corn, 698 

bisque, 357 

bread, plain, 781 

bread; raised, 236 

bread, Virginia, 780 

otiowder, 398 

creamed, 700 

esoalloped, 698 

fried, 701 

fritters, 699 

green, 214 

green, omelet, 642 

meal mush, boiled, 228 

pudding, 699 

starch blancmange, 290 
Corned beef, 534 
Cost, average, of material 

used in cooking, 294 
Cottager's pie, 680 
Cottage pudding, 928 
Court-bouillon, 400 
Court-bouillon (for boiling 

fish), 484 
Cowslip wine, 1035 
Crab soup, 396 
Crabs, baked, 471 

bisque of, 356 

devilled (No. 1), 470 > 

soft-shell, 58 

soft-shell, boiled, 479 

soft-shell, fried, 471 
Cracker raisin pudding, 934 
Cranberry soup, 384 
Crayfish in jelly, 458 
Cream, Bavarian, 955 

canary, 949 

caramels, 980 

cheese soup, No. 1 and 2, 
336 

cherry, 956 

chicken, soup, 341 

chocolate, 952 

filling, 200, 844 

frangiparie, 950 

honeycomb, 951 

jellyfish, 956 

junkfet, 954 



Cream, lemon puff, 954 

lemon whip, 954 

of asparagus soup, 350 

of barley soup, 343 

of beet soup, 338 

of cabbage soup, 345 

of cauliflower soup, 351 

of celery soup, 357 

of chestnut soup, 349 

of green pea soup, 351 

of lettuce soup, 350 

of mushroom soup, 344 

of pea soup, 338 

of potato, 344 

of sago soup, 339 

of sorrel soup, 343 

of spinach with egg balls, 
348 

of turnip soup, 339 

of watercress, 341 

onion soup, 837 

pie, 926 

puffs, 200, 927 

Russian, 955 

sauce, 489 

soups, 334 

Swiss, 949 

velvet, 950 

tomato soup, 337 

whipped, 952 
Creamed beets, 704 

cabbage, 719 

corn, 700 

dried beef, 525 

lobster on toast, 470 

mushrooms, 681 

oysters, 474 

oyster plant, 679 

salt codfish, 421 

shad, 433 

shad roe with mushrooms, 
436 
CrSoy soup, 321 
Croquettes, fish, 412 

hominy, 431 

nut, 1008 

roe, 436 

strawberry, 766 

sweetbread, 588 



INDEX 



J093 



C-ocjuetteSj veal, with 

mushrooms, 576 
Uroustades, lobster, 632 
Croutons, 407, 216 
Crullers, 8^2 
Cucumber sauce, 491 
Cucumber a la poulette, 727 

consomme with, 316 

how lo dress, 729 

mangoes, 725 

picls;led, 728 
Cucumbers, slewed, 727 

stuffed, 726 
"Cupful," as a measure, 292 
Cups, fruit, 764 

strawberry, 766 
GuraQoa, 1037 
Currant jelly sauce, 497, 
957 

rolls, 783 

wine, 1034 
Curried beef, 526 

eggs, 640 

lentils, 692 

mutton, 542 

pork, 550 

tomatoes with okra, 743 

tomatoes with rice, 743 
Curry, consomm6, 319 

of salmon, 443 

chicken, 599 
Custard, boiled, 194 

com, 291 

pudding, baked, 945 

puddlDg, boiled, 945 

sauce, 943, 957 

soft, 227 

steamed, 289 
Cutlets (flsh). 412 

mutton, and mushrooms, 
539 

pork, fried, 651 

veal. Breaded, with tomato 
sauce, 558 

veal, plain, 568 
^ vegetable, 716 



Daily ration, the choice of, 

110 
Dandelion wine, 1040 



Date pudding, 935 
Definitions, of terms used 
in cooking, 1046-1064 
Desserts, 277 
Devilled crabs (No. 1), 471 

halibut, 439 

lobster, 470 

or stuffed eggs, 637 

sausages, 556 
Devil's cake, 829 
Diet, essentials for outdoor 
laborer; for 'ndoor 
worker, 118 

simple, necessary for very 
young, and very old, 
117 

tables, for varying, 119 

varieties; animal, vege- 
table, and mixed, 106 
Digestibility of cake, of 
cake with butter, 262, 
263 

of cheese, 73 

of different meats, 22 

of eggs, 89 

of flsh, 43 

of fruit, 99 

of game, 40 

of gruels, 280 

of liquid foods, 279 

of lobster, 58 

of meats and fats, 17 

of milk, 70 

of pork, 31 

of toast, 282 
Doughnuts, 852 

German, 852 
Drawing -poultry, 35 
Draw butter, 491, 492 
Dressed endive, 756 
Dressing, bread, for game, 
503 

chestnut, 503 

for baked flsh, 490 

for salad (see also "Salad 
dressings"), 855 

potato, for duck, -503 
Dried beef » with eggs, 625 

beef, creamed, 525 

bean soup, 369 



J094 



INDEX 



Drop cakes, 848 
Duchess consomm^, 318 

eggs, 636 

sauce, 957 

soup, 324 
Ducks, canvas-back, broiled, 
608 

canvas-back, roasted, 608 
Ducks,' care of, before kill- 
ing, 37 

carving, 1018 

in jelly, 612 

ruddy, roast, 608 

salmi of, 610 

selecting in market, 37 

teal, broiled, 609 

wild, 38 



Ears, pigs', baked, 552 
Economy, true, in buying 

meats, 22 
Edible snails, 480 
Eel soup, 395 
Eels, baked, 450 

braised, royal style, 451 

fried, 450 
Eggs and spinach, 639 

au beurre noire, 639 

bacon and, 566 

baked, 91 

baked, and bacon, 636 

baked, and tomatoes, 750 

boiled, 633 

curried, 640 

devilled or stuffed, 637 

digestibility o*, 89. 

dried beef with, 525 

dropped, 90 

duchesse, 636 

floating island, 93 

for invalid, 911 

fried, 635 

fried ham, with, 567 

nutritive value, analysis 
88 

omelets* plain, fpamy, 
meat, baked meat, 92, 
93 

poached, 91, 634 



Eggs, receipes, how lo cook 

in water, 89 

riced,94 

scallops and, 472 

scrambled, 90, 635 

shirred, 640 

stuffed with anchovies, 
638 

to test freshness, 633 

Venetian, 994 

with cheese, 636 

with tomatoes, 638 
Egg balls, 348 

lemonade, 1031 

muffins, 791 
Eggnogg, 288 
Egg-plant, baked, 705 
Egg-plant, fried, recipe, 172 

fried, 705 

puffs, or fritters, 705 

stuffed with nuts, 705 
Egg sandwiches, 798 

sauce, 490 

soup, 144, 387 

wine, 910 
Elderberry wine, 1036 
Electric cake, 836 
Endive, dressed, 756 
English beef soup, 321 

walnut cake, 830 
Entries, beef tongue fillets, 
saut6ed, 629 ^ 

chicken timbales, 631 

lobster croustades, 632 

sheep's tongue in aspic, 
627 

stewed ox kidney, 627 
Epigrammes, lamb, with as- 
paragus tips, 548 
Escalloped cauUflower, 715 

cori;i, 698 

mushrooms, 682 
Espagnole sauce, 496 



Pagadu bradu, 732 

Family soup, 369 

Farina blocks (German), 

405 
Farmer's chowder, 374 



INDEX 



J095 



Farcied or. stuffed roast beef, 

513 
Fats, 10 

digestibility of, 18 

for frying and future use, 

166, 169 
uses and values of, 24 
Feet, pigs', boiled, 552 
Feet, pigs', stuffed & la P^ri- 

gueux, 553 
Fig pudding, frozen, 970 
F116e, gumbo, soup, 332 
Fillet of beef, braised, 533 
Fillets, codfish, HoUandaise, 

423 
Fillet of flounders, 448 

of mutton, braised, 541 
Filleted sole {k I'ltallenne), 

459 
Filling, cream, 844 
chocolate cream, 844 
chocolate, 844 
cocoanut, 844 
caramel, for cake, 845 
Finnan haddie, 1004 
a la Delmonico, 449 
broiled, 450 
Fire, making, 131 

when to use "hot," and 
when " slow," in oook- 
ing meats, 24 
Fish, 408 

k la crfeme, 410 
k la Paris, 415 
American, 55 
analysis of, 42 
anchovies, 460, 896 
baked, 48, 60, 187 
baked bass with shrimp 

sauce, 454 
baked carp, 465 
baked cod's head, 420 
baked creamed codfish, 

418 
baked eels, 450 
baked fresh mackerel 
with oyster dressing, 
431 
baked halibut with lob- 
ster sauce, 438 



Fish, baked pickerel, 464 
baked red snapper, 455 
baked salmon-trout, 442 
baked shad, 432 
baked smelts, 446 
baked stufQng for, 60 
Beauregard cod, 421 
Bisoayan cod, 419 
blueflsh, 57 
bluefish (baked), 416 
blueflsh (broiled), 415 
boiled, 61 , 

boiled black bass, with 

cream gravy, 453 
boiled fresh codfish, 422 
boiled halibut, 438 
boiled mackerel (German 

method), 430 
boiled red snapper, 455 
boiled salmon, 441 
boiled salmon-trout, 443 
boiling, 44 

boned baked pickerel, 165 
broiled, 59 
broiled bloaters, 456 
broiled flnnan-haddie, 450 
brojled halibut, 439 
broiled mackerel, 429 
broiled salt cod, 420 
broiled shad, 434 
broiled smoked salmon, 

444 
broiling 50 
brook trout, 57 
brook trout, broiled, 463 
cakes, 410 % 
casserole of, 413 
carp, 49 
catfish, 57 
cheese and halibut scallop, 

441 
chowder, 63, 389 
cleaning, 44 
cod, 55 

cod k la Bechamel, 418 
codfish & la bonne, femme, 

424 
codfish cakes, 423 
codfish fillets, HoUandaise, 

423 



1096 



INDEX 



t'ish, codfish hash, 424 
codfish in cream sauce, 

424 
codfish, maitre d'hOlel, 

423 
codfish souffle, 427 
codfish with macaroni, 

425 
codfish tongues, fried, 

429 
cod tongues, poulette, 429 
cod. tongues with black 

butter sauce, 429 
cod tongues with egg 

sauce, 428 
coquilles of (No. 1), 409 
crayfish in jelly, 458 
creamed, 62 
creamed lobster on toast, 

470 
creamed salt codfish, 421 
cre'amed shad, 433 
creamed shad-roe with 

mushrooms, 436 
croquettes, 412 
curry of salmon, 443 
cutlets, 412 
devilled, 53 
devilled halibut, 439 
devilled lobster, 470 
digestibility of, 43 
eels, 57 
eels braised, royal style, 

451 
en matelote, 414 
fillet, 47 
finnan hadme k la Del- 

monico, 449 
flounder, 56 

flounders au gratin, 448 
flounders, fillet of, 448 
flounders, fried (English), 

448 
fricassee, 47 
(shell) fricasseed snap- 
ping turtle, 468 
fried catfish, 464 
fried eels, 450 
fried shad-roe, 434 
fried smelts, 447 



Fish, (shell) fried soft-shell 

crabs, 471 
Pish — frying, 46 

haddock, 55 

haddock, boiled, with egg 
sauce, 461 

halibut, 55 

halibut a la Creole, 439 

halibut, baked with milli, 
437 

halibut steak Ji la Fla- 
mande, 440 

halibut steak, baked willi 
tomatoes, 440 

herring, 57 

herring marinaded, 458 

ice cream, 971 

kingflsh, 57 

less nourishing than meat, 
43 

lobster, 469 

lobster k la Newburg, 469 

lobster, prawns, and cray- 
fish, 58 

lobster, stewed in cream, 
469 

mackerel broiled, and tar- 
ragon butter, 430 

mackerel, caveaeh, 431 

matelote of codfish, 426 

mullet, 57 

oysters (see "Shellfish") 

perch, fried, 464 

pickled salmon, 444 

pike, baked In sour cream 
(German), 462 

planked, 52 

planked shad, 434 

p4td, 413 

pompano, 57 

porgies, 57 

red snapper, 57 

relishes, 896 

rissols of, 414 

roasting, 50 

roe croquettes, 436 

salmon, 56 

salmon mayonnaise, 444 

salmon on toast, 445 



INDEX 



J097 



Fish — salmon pie, 445 
salt codnsh balls, 422 
salt cod tidbit, 428 
salt fish-balls, 62 
salted, 55 
salted cod with brown 

butter, 419 
sandwich, 801 
sardine fritters (Ger- 
man), 456 
sauce, 49 
sauce: "Drawn Butter," 

6i 
scalloped, 411 
scalloped shad roe, 436 
scallop of salmon, 446 
scallops and eggs, 472 
sea-bass, 57 
seasons of year for, etc., 

55 
selecting, 44, 130 
shad, 56 

shad, planked, 434 
sheep's head, 57 
sheep's head Ji la Creole, 

457 
sole, filleted (a. I'ltalien- 

ne), 459 
soup, 395 

Spanish mackerel, 57 
steaming, 45 
steaming red snapper; 

454 
stewed oqdflsh, 427 ■ 
stuffed S6a bass; 452 
stuffed- smelts, 4-47 
stiirgeon, 58", 466^ 
terrapin stewed, 467 
turbot k la or^me, 451 
turbot flUets;, 45'2 
weakflah, 57 ' 
whitebaifri dressed,- - 4 6 1^ 
whiteflili,- 57 
whiMBg' iux fines hsrbes 

(English')', 463' 
with mashed" potatoes, 

411 
Pish (shell) 

baked crabs, 471 
Fish — ^baked soft clains, 479 



Fish, boiled soft-shell crabs, 

470 

broiled oysters, in the 

shell, or on the half 

■ shell, 475 

broiled oysters on toast, 

476 
clam fritters, 479 
creamed oysters, 474 
devilled -crabs (No. 1), 

471 
fried oysters, 476 
jatnbaiaya (East Indian 

recipe), 480 
Old Virginia: fried oysters, 

477 
oysters and mushrooms, 

477 
oysters on the half shelf, 

473 
oysters "roasted" in their 

own liquor, 479 
pigs in blankets, 480 
scalloped oysters, 478 
stewed oysters, 474 
shrimps, 472 
shrimps and mushroom, 

473 
smoked and cured, 54 
snails, edible, 480 
Fisherman's (French')chow- 

der, 392 
Flannel oakeS, 817 
Fleisch minuten, 581 
Flemish soup, 368 
Floating island,' 98 
Flounders au gratjn, 448 

fillet of, 448 
Flour, 96 

best lor bread, 229 
' test of purity, adulterants, 
230 
Foaming sauce, 957 
Pood and its value; impor- 
tance of correct under- 
standiiig, 4 
effect of boiling, on ele- 
ments of, 151 
Food, number and value of 
works on subject, 1 



1096 



INDEX 



Pood, supplies heat to body 

and repairs the system, 5, 

classes of, derived from 
plants and animals, 6 

compound, 14 

liquid, 279 

of animal origin, classi- 
fied, 14 

of vegetable origin ; how 
differing from foods of 
animal origin^ 95 

simple, 9 

(simple) albumen; type, 
where found; coagula- 
tion, 9, 10 

(simple) fats, 10 

(simple) salt and mineral 
matter ; represented by 
table salt; othei^ salts; 
necessity of, 12 

simple and compxiund, 
classified, 6, 7 

(simple) starches and 
sugars; where found, 
etc., 11 

table of comparative 
values, animal and 
vegetable foods, 103 

to be fried, 169 

types and character of, 
as determined by 
chemical analysis, 7, 8 

types to be combined in 
arranging proper diet, 8 
Force-meat balls, 405 
Foreign names of meats, 
fruits, and vegetables, 
1042-1045 

terms of menu, 1042 
Fortune cake, 837 
Fowl, kuwab, 605 

pie, 528 
Frangipane, 950 
Frankfort sausages, 557 
French beans, k la mattre 

d'hdtel, 687 
French fisherman's chowder, 
392 

ice cream, 965 



French soup, 369 

tomatoes, 752 
Fricadelles of veal, 572 
Fricandeau of beef, 536 
Fricassee, 162 

chicken, 164, 599 

process, 154 

veal 164, 576 
Fricasseed asparagus, 711 

beans, 690 

Jerusalem artichokes, 713 

snapping turtle, 468 
Fried cakes, 853 

catfish, 464 

chicken, 596 

cod tongues, 429 

corn, 701 

eels, 450 

eggs, 635 

egg-plant, recipe, 172 

egg-plant, 705 

green tomatoes, 750 

ham, recipe, 173 

ham and eggs, 173, 567 

hominy, 776 

Indian mush, 172 

lamb chops, with Par- 
mesan, 549 

liver (English), 534 

mush, recipe, 172 

oysters. Old Virginia, 477 

oyster plant, 678 

parsnips, 686 

perch, 464 

pork chops, 560 

potatoes, recipe, 171 

sausages, recipe. 172 

scrapple and Indian mush, 
172 

ShadnToe, 434 

smelts, 447 

soft'SbeU oralis, 470 

sweetbreads, 589 

tomatoes, recipe, 171 

tomatoes, 403 

turnips, 408 
Fritters, 196, 807 

apple, 809 

beef, 535 

clam,' 479. 808 



INDEX 



1099 



Fritters, corn, 699, 811 
egg-plant, 705 
fish and meat, 809 
muskmelon, 765 
oyster, 808 
peach, 811 
pineapple, 810 
puff-ball, 811 
sardines (German), 456 
vegetable, 811 
Progs' legs, 473 

legs, fried, 473 
Frosting for cake, 270 
Fruits: 

apple butter, American, 

769 
apple sauce, 770 
apples, baked, 767 
apples, baked, for child- 
ren, 768 
apples in pastry, 770 
apples, stewed, 769 
apples, stewed in whiskey,- 

768 
cherries (raw), 775 
comp6te of fruit, 774 
foreign names of, 1046- 

1064 
fruit cocktail, 764 
fruit crown, 767 
fruit cups, 764 
.fruit parfait, 765 
fruit pudding, 764 
gooseberry soufll6, 772 
gooseberry tart, 771 
grape pudding, 774 
grape timbale, 764 
grapes in jelly, 774 
iced fruits for dessert, 

763 
jellied fruit, 765 
melons (musk.. and, cante- 

loape), 773 
mushroom melon, 767 
muskmelon fritters, 765 
Fruits — oranges, how to 

serve, 772 
pears, imperial, 763 
pineapples, 775 
sea-urchins, 766 



Fruits, stewed prunes, 774 
stewed rhubarb, 771 
strawberry croquettes, 

766 
strawberry cups, 766 
vegetarian fruit course, 

766 
Fruit cake, 832 
cake, dark, 840 
composition of; eftect of 

cooking on dried fruits, 

99 
cream, 969 
digestibility when raw 

and when cooked, 99 
mousse, 972 
omelet, 644 
soup, 403 
Fry, lamb's, 548 
Frying, chief foods for, 169 
process of, 166 
rapid method of cooking, 

169 
sautfiing, 170 
time table, 297 
Frijole soup, 385 
Game, 32 
aspic game or poultry,, 624 
Belgian hare, stuffed and 

roasted, 616 
canvas-back ducks, ■ 

broiled, 608 
canvas-back ducks, 

roasted, 608 
carving, 1016, 1019 
digestibility of, 40 
duck in jelly, 612 
soup, 399 
German hasenpfefCer, 615 

grouse, roast, 621 
Game, hanging of, 39 
hare or raibit (German 

hasenpfeffer), 615 
hare or rabbit, braised, 

614 
partridges, baked, 616 
pheasant, broiled, 619 
pigeons, stuffed and 

roasted (German 

method). 618 



noo 



INDEX 



Game, plovers, roasted, 617 

p4t6 of foies gras, 613 

quails, roast, 619 

quails, trussing of, 619 

rabbit or hare (German 
hasenpfeffer) , 615 

rabbit or hare, braised, 
614 

roast ruddy ducks, 609 

roast teal, 610 

salmi of duck, 610. 

snipes, cooked (German 
fashion), 620 

teal ducks, broiled, 609 

venison, roast (German 
recipe), 621 

venison steaks, broiled, 
621 

woodcock, roast, 622 
Garnishing, 300 
Geese, 38 

Geneva griddle cakes, 815 
German farina blocks, 405 

pancakes, 821 
Gherkins, pickled, 902 
Giblets, 37 . 
Giblet pie, 594 

soup, 322 
Ginger beer, 1029, 1030 
Gingerbread, 270, 846 

colonial, 846 

soft, 846 

sour milk,846 
Ginger cordial, 1038 
Glac6 Nfipolitaln,. 965 
Glazed nuts, 1008 
Glossary: terras used; , in 
cooking, 1046/-i064 
Gold cake. 836 
Golden sauce, 958 
Goose, 38 

in jelly, 612 

roasty 611 
Goosebeajry pie, 923 

pudding, 929 

soufflft, 772 

tart, 771 
Graham bread, 780 

gems, 792 . 

griddle cakes, 8M 



Graham, muflBns, 790 

pudding, steamed, 934 

rolls, 787 
Grape juice, 1041 

pudding, 774 

sauce, 916 

timbale, 764 

wine, 1040 
Grapes in jelly, 774 
Gravies and sauces, 14G 

thickening for, 147 
Gravy for roasts, 192 
Grecque, soup, ^ la, 344 
Green corn, broiled, 702 

corn omelet, 642 

corn soufflg, 699 

peas, 695 

peas & la crfeme, 696 

pea pur6e, 359 

peas, soup, cream of, 351 

peas, stewed,' 695 

peas, to boil, 694 

tomato sweet pickles, 904 

tomatoes, fried, 750 
Griddle cakes, 198, 813 

cakes with eggs, 814 
Grilled tomatoes, 746 
Grouse, roast, 621 
Gruel, 280,-288 

barley, 909. 

oatmeal, wheatena, 285 

water, 914* 
Gruetz, 929' 
Guinea fowl,. 39' 
Gumbo, chicken, 330 

chicken, with oyfiters, 331 
GuDDbo, fllSe soupv 332. 

oyster, 331 

shrimp, 397 

Haddock, boileidr with egg 

sav6e, 461 
Halibut k la GrSole,. 439-. 

baked' with lobster sauce; 
438 

baked with milk, 437 

bisque of, 353 

boiled, 438 

broiled, 439 

devilled, 439 



INDEX 



mi 



Halibut, scalloped, cheese 

and, 441 

steak, k, laFlamande, 440 

steak, baked with toma- 
toes, 440 
Ham, 31 

and eggs, recipe, 173 

broiled, 566 

fried, with eggs, 567 

fried, recipe, 173 

omelet, 642 
roasted, 567 
Hamburg steak, 507 
Hard-pea soup, 370 
Hard sauce, 149, 958 
Hare, Belgian, 40 

Belgian, stuffed and 
roasted,' 616 

or rabbit (German Hasen- 
pfefter), 615 

or rabbit braised, 614 
Haricot besms (lima beans) 
& la maltre d'h6tel, 688 

beans with onions, 689 

defined, 161 

mutton, 542 
Harlequin sandwich, 800 
Hash, beef, 518 

codfish, 424 
Hasenpf offer (German), 615 
Hasty soup, 323 
Head, calf's, baked, 575 

cheese, 564 
Heart, beef's, boiled, 532 

calf's, baked, 630 

calf's, stuffed, 629 
Herbs with Parmesan, soup 

of, 367 
Herrings, marinaded, 458 
Hickory-nut cake, 830 

nut candy, 982 
Hoe-cake, 477 
HoUandaise sauce, 486 
Hominy, breakfast, boiled, 
776 

croquettes, 777 

fried, 776 

griddle cakes, 818 

muffins, 790 
Honeycomb cream, 951 



Honigkuchen, 843 
Hors d'oeuvres, 102 
Horseradish, 741 

sauce, 741 

sauce (hot), 492 
Horse's neck, 1032 
Hot pot, beef, 531 
Hotchpotch, Scotch, 365 
Huckleberry cake, 835 

griddle cakes, 815 

pudding, 936 

shortcake, 824 
Hulled corn soup, 342 
Hygienic cream sauce, 958 



Ice cream, how frozen, 281 

recipes, 287 

apricot, 962 

baked Alaska, 968 

biscuit, 970 

biscuit glao6, 972 

biscuit tortoni, 974 

Bohemian, 964 

brown bread, 967 

caramel, 968 

chocolate, 963 

chocolate mouss6, 971 

coffee, 963 

fish, 971 

French, 965 
Ice cream, fruit, 969 

fruit mousse, 972 

glac6 Napolitain, 965 

mask, 968 

Italian, 970 

lemon, 962 

melon, 971 

Milanese, 964 

mille fruit, 962 

pistachio, 966 

surprise melon, 972 

vanilla, 963 

vanilla parfait, 969 
Ices, almond and ofange, 
975 

lemon, 976 ' 

lemon sherbet, 973 

milk sherbet, 973 

punch Lalla Rookh, 978 



no2 



INDEX 



Ices, orange sherbet, 973 
Roman punch, iced, 977 
sorbet of Kirsohenwasser, 

977 
sorbet of rum, 978 
strawberry sherbet, 976 
water, 974 

Ice, lemon, 284 
Iced coffee, 1022 

Icing, boiled, 845 
Charlotte' fruit, 951 
chocolate water, 845 
maple sugsu* frosting, 845 
marshmallow frosting, 
845 

Indian sauce, 487 

Indian griddle cakes, 816 
mush, fried, 172 
burdwan, 606 
chutney, 900 
meal pudding, boiled, 927 

Inexpensive soup, 323 

Information, miscellaneous, 
292 

Invalid, cookery for, 279, 
905 
apple water, 905 
arrowroot jelly, 906 

Invalid cookery — ^barley 
gruel, 905 

•• barley water, 905 
beef, mutton, and veal 

broth, 906 
beef tea, 906 
bread, Ught, 907 
bread pudding, light, 907 
. broth, beef, mutton, and 

veal, 906 
broth, calves' feet, 908 
broth, chicken, 909 
broth, clear, 907 
broth, mutton, 912 
broth, veal, 912 
broths, white with vermi- 

ceUi, 914 
calves' feet broth, 908 
calves' feet jelly, 908 
chicken broth, 909 
chicken minced, 909 
chicken, with sauce, 909 



Invalid, chicken with sip- 
pets, 910 

eggs, 911 

egg wine, 910 

gruel water, 914 

Itahan paste, 914 

jelly, calves' feet, 908 

jelly, meat, 911 

jelly, orange, 912 

jelly, tapioca, 913 

macaroni with broth, 911 

meat jelly, 911 

mutton broth, 912 

orange jelly, 912 

panada, 913 

rice, 914 

sponge-cake, pudding, 913 

tapioca jelly, 913 

veal broth, 912 

vermicelli, 914 

water gruel, 914 

whey, 914 

white broths with vermi- 
celli, 914 
Invalids, milk and food for ; 

ice cream, 281 
Irish moss blancmange, 290 

moss jelly, 283 

sandwiches, 806 

soup, or Balnaraoon 
skink, 332 
Italian steak, 536 
Irish stew, 524 
Italian macaroons, 848 

paste, 914 

sandwiches, 805 

Jambalaya (East Indian 

recipe), 480 
Jam, 919 

home made, 272 

sandwiches, 804 
Jellies, lemon, orange, etc., 

283 
JeUied fruit, 765 
JeUies, 916 
Jelly, arrowroot, 906 

aspic, 914 

cake, 837 

calves' feet, 908 

grape sauce, 916 



INDEX 



1103 



Jelly, meat, 911 

orange, ,912 

strawberry, 916 

tapioca, 913 
Jellyfish cream, 956 
Jenny Lind's soup, 341 
Jerusalem artichokes, fri- 
casseed, 713 

artichokes, pur6e of, 714 

artichokes, stewed, 712 
Jewish almond pudding, 
939 

sausage, or chorissa, 537 
Johnny csike, or journey 

cake, 822 
Julienne soup, 142, 323 

soup, Russian, 322 
Jumbles, almond, 849 

peanut, 850 
June tea punch, 1024 
Junket, 291, 954 

Kale brose, 333 
Kale, Scotch, 725 
Kebobbed mutton, 543 
Kidney beans, 691 
ox, stewed, 627 
K16sse (liver), for soup, 406 
Koumiss, 1025 
Kuwab fowl, 605 

Lady fingers, 847 
Lamb, 27 

ballotin of, with green 
peas, 546 

blanquette of, 545 

breast of, roasted k la 
Milanese, 545 

broehettes, 547 

buying in market, 128 

chops, broiled, 549 

French chops, 30 

chops, fried, with Parme- 
san, 549 

chops with champagne 
sauce, 547 

gplgrammes with aspara- 
gus tips, 548 
Lamb's fry, 548 



Lamb, how divided by 
butcher, 129 

minced, with poached 
eggs, 550 

roast, time for, 192 

spring, 29 
Larded sweetbreads, k la 

flnancifere, 590 
Larding, 202 
Lebkuchen, 851 
Leeks, 93 

how to boil, 740 

soup, 340 
Left-over soup, 322 
Leg of lamb, roasted, 544 

of mutton, boiled, 539 

of mutton, stuffed, 538 

of pork, stuffed and roast- 
ed, 561 
Leguminous plants, 100 
Lemon and peppermint 
drops, 980 

cake, 837 

cheese cake, 843 

ice, 976 

ice cream, 962 

jelly, 282 

pie, 926 

puff, 954 

sauce, 149 , 

sauce for puddings, 959 

sherbet, 973 

souffle, 941 

whip, 954 
Lemonade, 284 

egg, 1031 
Lemonade for parties, 1031 

orgeat, 1031 

plain, 1030 

seltzer, 1031 

soda, 1030 
Lentil soup, 386 
Lentils, curried, 692 
Lettuce soup, 367 

soup, cream of, 350 

stewed, 755 

stuffed, 756 
Lima beans k la poulette. 



no4 



INDEX 



Lima beans (haricot 

beans ) , h. la m a 1 1 r e 

d'li6tel, 688 

bean pur^e, 360 
Limeade, 1027 
Liquid foods, 279 
Liver, calf's, and bacon, 

, 565, 579 

calf's broiled, 578 

calf's, and onions, 
saut^ed, 579 

fried (English), 534 

kl6sse (for soup), 406 

sausages, Mecklenburg, 
555 ^ 

Loaf, veal, 577 
Lobster, 358, 369 

k la Newburg, 997, 469 

bisque of, 355 

coral sauce, 881 

creamed, 998 
Lobster, creamed, on toast, 
470 

croustades, 632 

devilled, 470 

sauce, 485, 488 

stewed in cream, 469 
Loin of mutton, roasted, 543 

of pork, roast, 563 
Luncheon delicacy, chicken 

salad rolls, 889 
Macaroni, 667 

baked, 672 
boiled, k I'ltalienne, 670 

croquettes, 668 

nudels, 672 

soufQ6, 668 

timbales, 669 

with chestnuts, 671 , 

with broth (invalid), 911 

with tomatoes, 669 

and tomato soup, quickly 
made, 345 
Macaroons, 848 
Macedoine soup, 335 
Mackerel, baked fresh, with 
oyster dressing, 431 -> 

baked salt, 187 

boiled (German method), 
430 



Mackerel, broiled, 429 

broiled, and tarragon but- 
ter, 430 

caveach, 43 i 
Madeira sauce, 495, 624 
Maltre d'hdtel butter, 495 
Mangoes, cucumber, 725 

atuifed, 901 
Maple sugar caramel, 953 
Marbled cake, 831 
Marinaded herrings, 458 
Marketing, 125 

beef, 26 

buying mutton and lamb, 
27 

how to select meat, etc., 
23 

poultry, 34 

'pork, 31- 
Marketing^sweetbreads, 31 

veal, 30 
Marmalade, 919 
Marron glac6, 1007 
Marrow balls for consommfi, 

317 
Marshmailow cake, 838 
Mashed beans, 690 

potatoes, recipe, 155 
Matelote (fish en), 414 

of codflsh, 426 
Matzoth soup balls, 406 
May wine, 1035 
Mayonnaise dressing, 857 

salmon, 444 
Meagre soup, 385 
Measures, 292 
Meat and' potato pie, 521 

baking, 185 

boiling, 154 

broiling, 181 

buying and selecting ; 
points to bear in mind, 
23 

casserole, 177 

composition of,- etc., 14 

composition of fresh 
(table), 16 

constituents of, 15 



INDEX 



n05 



Meat, cooking with slow 
fire ; with hot fire ; in 
water, 24 

digestibility of; compari- 
son and explanation, 17 
effect of boiling on, 153 
effect of stewing, 159 
effect of salt upon, 186 
extract; nutritive value 

slight, 19 
for beef patties, 535 
(force-) balls, 405 
how rendered more 

tender, 15 
how to make tender with 

acid, 15 
jelly, 911 

marketing for, selecting 
etc., 126 
Meat, moulded, 628 
roasting, 188 
roasting time for, 190, 192 
sandwiches, 797 
smothered, 26 
steaming, 26 

term includes what? sea- 
sons for various kinds; 
what kinds most nutri- 
tious; what kinds most 
digestible, 22 
test for boiling, 182 
treatment of, after buy- 
ing, 23 
uses of the fat, 24 
vinaigrette of cold, 581 
what cuts best suited for 
various styles of cook- 
ing, 23 
why bread must be added 
to a meat diet, 16 
Meats — ^bacon and calf's 
liver, 565 
bacon and eggs, 566 
baked beefsteak k la jar- 
diniere, 530 
baked calf's head, 575 
ballotin of lamb, with 
green peas, 546 
beef, braised, pot roast, 
475 



Meats, beef k la mode, 515 
beef balls, 526 
beef fritters, 535 
beef hash, 518 
beef hot-pot, 531 
beef's liver, breaded, 523 
beef loaf, 527 
beef patties, meat for, 

535 
beefsteak with mush- 
rooms, 508 
beefsteak and onions, 509 
Meats — beef stew with 

dumplings, 516 
blanquette of lamb, 545 
blanquette of veal, with 

cucumbers, 582 
boiled bacon, 565 
boiled beef's heart, 532 
boiled calves' tongueS, 

573 
boiled dinner, old- 
fashioned, 624 
boiled leg of mutton, 539 
boiled sausages, with 

white wine, 557 
boiled sweetbreads with 

tomato sauce, 586 
braising inferior parts, 

174 
braised beef's tongue (No. 
' 1),432 
braised or smothered 

sweetbreads, 589 
breast of lamb, braised k 

la Milanese, 545 
breast of veal, stuffed, 

572 
brisket of beef, stewed, 

533 
broiled bacon, 565 
broiled pork and Chili 

sauce, 551 
broiled sweetbreads with 

stuffed tomatoes, 587 
calf's brain, breaded, 574 
calf's heart, baked, 630 
calf's heart, stuffed, 629 
calf's liver and bacon,579 



1106 



INDEX 



Meats, calf's liver and onion 
saut6, 579 
calf's liver, broiled, 578 
cliicken-and-hain pie, 529 
chicken potpie, 528 
corned beef, 534 
creamed dried beef, 525 
curried beef, 526 
curried pork, 550 
devilled sausages, 556 
dried beef with eggs, 525 
fillet of beef, braised, 533 
foreign names of, 1046- 

1064 
and poultry pies — fowl 

pie, 528 
Prankfott sausages, ■ 557 
frioadelles of veal, 572 
fricandeau of beef, 536 
gravy for roast, 192 
haricot mutton, 542 
ham, broiled, 566 
ham, fried with eggs, 567 
ham, roasted, 567 
Hamburg steak, 507 
head cheese, 564 
Irish stew, 524 
Italian steak, 536 
Jewish sausage, or cho- 

rissa, 537 
lamb brochettes, 547 
lamb chops, broiled, 549 
lamb chops, fried with 

Parmesan, 549 
lamb chops with cham- 
pagne sauce, 547 
lamb epigrammes with 
asparagus tips, 548 
lamb's fry, 548 
leg of lamb, roasted, 544 
leg of mutton, stuffed, 

538 
leg of pork, stuffed and 
_roasted, 561 
liver, fried (English), 534 
loin of pork, roast, 563 
Mecklenburg liver saus- 
ages, 555 



Meats, Mexican chile con 
came, 628 
minced lamb with poached 

eggs, 550 
minuten fleisch, 581 
moulded meat, 628 
New England pot roast, 

531 
olla podrida, 538 
pan-broiled steak, 506 
pig, sucking, roast, 559 
pigs' ears, IJaked, 552 
pigs' feet, boiled, 552 
feet, stuffed k la P6ri- 

gueux, 553 
pork chops, broiled, 560 
pork chops, fried, 560 
pork outlets, fried, 551 
pot roast, 26 
pot roast of beef, 522 
preparing for stew, 161 
rogfiut of beef, 519 
r^chaufCfi of beef, &, la jar- 

dinifere, 526 
rib roast, 513 
rissoles of beef, '518 
roast beef, 510 
roast from the round, 

512 
roast veal, 571 
rolled boiled beef, 530 
sausages, 553 
sausages, baked, 556 
scalloped sweetbreads 

with mushrooms, 584 
scalloped sweet breads, 

583 
shoulder of mutton, / 

stuffed, 540 
smothered beef, 522 
souse, 564 
spare-rib of pork, roasted, 

562 
spiced pressed beef, 520 
steak a, la Bordelaise, 

527 
stewed sweetbreadSj 587 
stuffed or farcied roast 

beef, 513 
sweetbreads, 586 



INDEX 



n07 



"Meats, sweetbreads, fried, 
589 
sweetbreads, larded, k la 

financifere, 590 
sweetbreads, plain boiled, 

586 
sweetbreads with spa- 
ghetti or macaroni and 
tomatoes, 584 
sweetbread croquettes, 

588 
sweetbread pattieS (vol- 

au-vents), 588 
to broil a steak, 505 
veal croquettes with 

mushrooms, 576 
veal cutlets, breaded with 

tomato sauce, 568 
veal cutlets, plain, 568 
veal fricassee, 576 
veal liver pSlt6, 583 
veal loaf, 577 
veal potpie, 569 
vinaigrette of cold meat, 

581 
Wiener schnitzel, 580 
Yorkshire pudding (to be 

eaten with roast beef), 

514 
meat and potato pie, 521 
mutton, boiled, 156 
mutton chops, broiled, 

539 
mutton chops, pan- 
broiled, 540 
mutton, curried, 542 
mutton cutlets and mush- 
rooms, 539 
mutton, fillet of, braised, 

541 
mutton, kebobbed, 543 
mutton, loin of, roasted, 

543 
Mecklenburg liver sausages, 

555 
Melon cream, 625 

(musk ana canteloupe), 

773 
Menu, making, 115 
tables, 119 



Menu, terms in foreign lan- 
guages, 1046 
Mexican chile con oarne, 628 
Milanese ice cream, 964 
Milk and seltzer, 1025 
Milk as food for invalids, 
281 
biscuit, 789 
digestibility of, 70 
effect of gastric juices 

upon, 68 
importance, of sterilizing; 
method of sterilizing, 
69 
nature and properties of, 

67 
perfect food for infant; 

not so for adult, 69, 70 
porridge, 285, 777 
soup, almond, 334 
sherbet, 973 

scalding to prevent turn- 
ing sour, 68 
toast, 287, 795 
why the ideal food for in- 
fants; examination of 
its elements, 7, 8 
Milln fruit ice cream, 962 
Minced chicken, 909 

lamb with poached eggs, 
550 
Mince-meat pie, 924 

patties, 924 
Mint sauce (for young 

lamb), 496 
Minuten fleisch, 581 
Miscellaneous information, 

292 
Mixed diet, rules for, 110 
Mixing batters and fritters, 

196 
Mocha cake, 826 
Mock bisque, 358 
terrapin soup, 395 
turtle soup, 371' 
turtle bean soup, 380 
Molasses cookies, 848 

sauce, 958 
Muffins, egg, 791 
English, 788 



no8 



INDEX 



Muffins, Graham, 790 

hominy, 790 

oatmeal, 791 

raised, 236 

rice, 790 

Sally Lunn, 790 
Mulligatawny soup, 325 
Mush, boiled corn-meal, 228 

Indian, fried, 172 
Mushrooms, Baked, 683 

broiled, 679 

button, stewed, 681 
Mushroom catsup, 684 

consomm6, with, 317 

creamed, 681 

escalloped, 682 

omelet, 643 

pickled, 685 

ragoCit, 682 

melon, 767 

sauce, 397 

soup, cream of, 344 

toast, cream of, 344 

with bacon, 683 

and beeffeteak pie, 680 
Mustard sauce, 495 
Muskmelon fritters, 765 
Mutton, 27 

and lamb, how divided by 
the butcher, 29 

and lamb, sheeps' heads, 
kidneys, liver and heart, 
30 

boiled, recipe, 156 

boiled, caper sauce, 156 

broth, 329, 912 

brothj Scotch, 330 

chops, broiled 539 

chops, pan-broiled, 540 

curried, 542 

cutlets and mushrooms, 
539 

fillet of, braised, 541 

haricot, 542 

how to select, 128 

kebobbed, 543 

leg of, 29 

loin of, roasted, 543 

pie, 595 

roast, 29, 192 



Mutton, saddle of, 29 

shoulder of, 29 
Mutton, shoulder of, stuffed, 
540 

Southdown, 27 

Names, foreign, of meats, 

fruits and vegetables, 
1046-1064 
Nectar, for dog days, 1032 
Nesselrode pudding, 966 
New England pot roast, 

531 
Noodles (see "Nudels") 
Nougat, 984 
Nudels, buttered, 674 

fritters, 675 

macaroni, boiled in milk, 
672-673 

with Parmesan, or au 
gratin, 674 
Nut and fruit sandwiches, 803 

and tomato soup, 347 

butter, 1006 

butter sandwiches, 801 

croquettes, or cutlets, 
1008 

sandwiches, 799 

souffle, 1008 
'Nuts, and their uses, 1005 

general discussion, 275 

pudding, 930 

chestnuts, 1008 

cocoanut, 1007 

glazed, 1008 

marron glac6, 1007 

salted, 1007 

sugared, 1007 

Oats, rolled, 225 
Oatmeal, 194, 224 

mufilns, 791 

porridge, 775 

purge, 361 

Scotch. 226 
Oatmeal gruel, 285 
Okra soup, 380, 377 
Olive sauce, 497 
011a podrida, 538 
Omelet, 92, 93, 999 



INDEX 



U09' 



Omelet, asparagus, 642 

baked, 645 

cheese, 642, 1001 

French, 1000 

fruit, 644 

green corn, 642 

ham, 642 

mushroom, 643 

nut, lOOi 

onion, 644 

oyster, 644 

plain, 641 

tomato, 643 

rum, 1001 

Spanish, 1000 

sweet, 1001 

with peas, 646 
Onions, 214 

h. la crfeme, 735 

boiled, 219 

for beefsteak, etc., 738 

pickled, 734, 903 

plain boiled, 736 

Spanish, baked, 736 

stewed, 737 

stuffed and baked, 737 

with grated cheese, 739 

and eggs, 735 

cream soup, 337 

omelet, 644 

porridge, 735 

sauce (Soubjse sauce), 
500 ' • 

soup, simple,- 366 

soup (Spanish), 327 
Orangeade, 1028: 
Orange cake^ 838 

fritters,, 8 10 

jeUy, 912 

prepared for invalid, 286 

pudding, 936 

sauce, 494, 623 

sherbet, 1032-, 973 

how to serye,-772 
Orgeat lemon'ade, 1031 
Oven, how to reduce tem- 
perature in, 264 
Ox kidney, stewed, 627 
Oxtail soup, 327 
Oysters, 58 



Oysters, k la Newburg, 997 
and mushrooms, 377 
bisque, 355 
broiled, 66 
broiled, in the shell, or on 

the half shell, 475 
broiled on toast, 476 
chicken stuffed with, 601 
cocktail, 475 
creamed, 64, 474 
fried, 66, 476 
gumbo, 331 
how to broil without 

opening, 475 
Old Virginia fried, 477 
omelet, 444 
on the half shell, 473 
plant, 67S 
plant, creamed, 679 
plant, fried, 678 
panned, 64 
preparing, 64 
" roast " in their own 

liquor, 479 
sauce, 499 
scalloped, 65, 478 
soup, Virginia, 346 
stew, 65 
stewed, 474 
rarebit, 997 - 

stuffing, 603 

Panada, 913 

Pan-broiled mutton chops, 
540 

steak, 506 
Pan -broiling, 183 
Pancakes, 818 

(k la or6me), 819 

creams, 820 

English, 818 

French, ^20 

plain, 819 

snow, 821 - 

without eggs, 821 
Paris, flsh„a la,, 415 
Parisian soup, 365 

Spanish soup, 364 
Parmesan cheese and oys- 
ters, 990 



1110 



INDEX 



Parsley butter, 500 
Parsnips, 212, 221 

soup, 381 
Partridges, baked, 616 
Parsnips, boiled, 685 
browned under roast meat, 
686 

fried, 686 
>aste, brioche, 353 

for common pies, 248 

Blench, for meat-pies, 249 

puff, 249 

shortcake, 250 
Pastry, 247 

recipes, 250 
Pat^, veal liver, 583 
Patties, chicken, 593 

sweetbread (vol-au-vents) , 
588 
Peach shortcake, 824 
Peaches, sweet pickled, 904 
Peanut brittle, 983 
Peanut jumbles, 850 

soup, 346 
Pears, chipped gingered, 
918 

imperial, 763 

sweet pickled, 904 
Peas, 692, 215 

boiled, 218 

dried, 221 

green, 695 

green, a la crfeme, 696 

green, to boil, 694 

green, stewed, 695 

omelet, with, 646 

purfee of, 696 

stewed, in turnip cups, 
697 

soup, cream of, 33« 

(hard-) soup, 370 

(split-) soup, 381 

(split-) soup (No. 2), 
379 
Penouchi, 983 
Peppers, Creole, 759 

stewed, 760 

stuffed sweet, 759 
Peppers, stuffed, 899 
Pepper sauce, 489 



Perch, fried, 464 
Pfeffernuesse, 851 
Pheasant, broiled, 619 
PiccaUlU, 900 
Pickerel, baked, 464 

boned, baked, 465 
Pickle relishes, 552 
Pickles, green tomato 

sweet, 904 
Pickled beets, 704 

cucumbers, 728 

gherkins, 902 

mushrooms, 685 

onions, 734, 903 

pears or peaches, sweet, 
904 

salmon, 344 

walnuts, 554 
Pies, apple, 251 

apple, Dutch, 922 

apple dumpling, baked, 
921 

apple potpie, 922 

apple tarts, 925 

Banbury tarts, 923 

beefsteak, 593 

cbicken-and-ham, 529 

chicken, 591 

chocolate, 926 

cottager's, 680 

cream, 926 

cream apple, 922 

cream puffs, 927 

currant tarts, 925 

fowl, 528 

giblet, 594 

gooseberry, 923 

gooseberry tarts, 925 

green apple, 921 

lemon, 252, 926 

mince, 252 

minoe-meat, 924 

mince patties, 924 

mutton, 595 

paste for, 248, 249 
Pies — pumpkin, 924 

pumpkin or squash, 925 

rdsettes, 927 

salmon, 445 

squash, oj" pumpkin, 925 



INDEX 



UtS 



Pies, tartlets, 925 
Pig, sucking, roast, 559 
Pigeon, 38 

Pigeons, stuffed and roasted 
(German method), 618 
Pigs' ears, baked, 552 

feet, boiled, 552 

feet, stuffed k la P6ri- 
gueux, 553 
Pigs in blankets, 180, 480 
Pike, baked in sour cream 

(German), 462 
Pineapples, 429 
Piquant sauce, 486 
Piqu6, meat, 202 
Pistachio ice cream, 966 
Plain layer cake, 829 

omelets, 641 
Planked flsh — shad, 434 
Plate, flsh, 413 
Plovers, roasted, 617 
Plum pudding, Christmas, 

933 
Poached eggs, 634 
Polenta, 691 
Popovers, 199, 822 
Pork, 31 

Popcorn balls, 986 
Pork, broiled, and Chili . 
sauce, 551 

chops, 31 

chops, broiled, 560 

chops, fried, 560 

curried, 550 

cutletSi fried, 551 

indigeetlbility, 31 

leg of, stuffed and roastedj 
561 

loin of, roast, 563 
- selecting in market, 130 

spare-rib of, roasted, 562 
Porridge, 224 

milk, 285, 777 

oatmeal, 775 

onion, 735 
Port wine sauce, 499, 623 
Porterhouse steak, 27 
Portuguese soup, 400 
Potpie, apple, 922 
Pot au feu, 401 



Potpie, chicken, 528 

veal, 569 
Pot roast, 26 

roast. New England, 531 

roast of beef, 522 

roast, recipe, 175 
Potato balls, brown, 217 

balls, fried, 649 

balls surprise, 217 

basket, 651 

cakes, 647 

chowder, 397 

cream of, 344 

croquettes, 659 

croquettes, sweet, 658 

dressing for duck, 503 

fritters, 660 

pulf, 650 

ribbons, 660 

rice, '658 

souffle, 651 

sweet, souffle, 652 

(browned) soup, 378 

(savory) soup, 378 
Potatoes, k la orfeme, 661 

au gratin, 649 

baked, 650, 215 

boiled, 653 

boiled in their jackets, 
654 

boiled, recipe, 155 ' 

broiled, 655 ' 

browned, mashed, 647 ' 

browned under a roast- 
ing joint, 655 
- Casserole, 659 

cooking, peeling, etc., 209 

creamed, 217 

discussion of, 98 

French, fried, 648 
Potatoes — fried raw, 649 

fried, recipe, 171 

German, fried, 655 

hashed brown, 656 

Lyonnaise, 647 

mashed, 652 

mashed, recipe, 155 

Saratoga chips, 656 

sautfid, 170 



Itl2 



INDEX 



Potatoes, scalloped, 658 

selecting according lo 
size; washing, 211 

Southern sweet, 217 

steamed, 195 

stuffed, 648 

sweet» and apples, 657 

sweet, au gratiii, 657 

sweet, esoalloped, 657 

what sort to boil, 99 

with white sauce, 653 
Poulette, cod tongues, 429 
Poultry — ^baked chicken, 
596 

baked fried chicken, 597 

capon, roasted with cream 
stuffing, 604 

carving, 1017 

chicken curry, 599 

chicken en casserole, 600 

chicken stuffed with oys- 
ters, 601 

chicken terrapin, 598 

chicken timbades, 601 

cleaning, 36 

drawing, 35 

fricasseed chicken, 599 

fried chicken, 596 

hanging up; picking and 
scalding, 34 

Indian burdwan, 606 

killing a fowl, 34 

kuwai) fowl, 605; 

pa,t$s,,of foies gras, 61-3 

pilad of chicken, 600 

pressed chicken, 598 • 

roast turkey, .602 
Poultry — T6li de pauvre 
homme, 605 

scalloped chipken, 597 

selecting-, ' 34' 

treatment of; before kill- 
ing, 33- 

trussing>'3& 
Pound oates 841 
Preserves, 272 
Pressed spiced beef, 520 
Prime ribs of beef, 27 
Prune sauce, 958 

sauce for puddii^g, 958 



Prunes, stewed, 774 

Puddings, 256 
apple mange, 947 
apple meringue, 937 
apple, or other fruit 

soufil6, 940 
apple pudding (English), 

928 
apple snow. No. 1, 944 
apple snow, No. 2, 948 
apple tapioca, 261, 935 
apricot custard, 946 
arrowroot souffle, 940 
baked batter, 939 
baked custard, ,945 
baked rice, 260 
baked sago, 937 
batter, 258 
blackberry, 936 
boiled custard, 945- 
boiled Indian-meal, 927 
Boston delight, 934 
bread, 261 
bread custard, 938 
brown bread, 938 
caramel, 942 
Charlotte russe, 944 
cherry, 936 , . 

chocolate, 936 
cracker raisin, 934 
date, 935 

floating island; 946 
frozen custard, M6 ■ 
frozen plum, .947 ■ 
frozen flg< 970 

Puddings-Jbreadiilislit.- ^0-1 
ohiokett aM j!ice',r€.<)3.- ., ■ 
Christmas plimi, 933. • 
cloth, never wash -with 

sbdp,. aeo -.^ 

corn, 699 
cottage, 928 
flavoring, 258 . 
fruit, roly-poly, 932' 
gooseberry, 929 
ground ficfr soufllfi, 941 
gruetz, 929 
heavenly hash, 943 
huckleberry, 936 . '., 



INDEX 



11)3 



Puddings, Indian tapioca, 
260 

Jewisli almond, 939 
lemon souffle, 941 
meat, extra care necessary, 

259 
nut, 284 
orange, 936 
plum, keeping for months, 

259 
Polish, 932 

preparing ingredients, 258 
rice, 935 
rice. No. 2, 936 
Rotterdam, 931 
rum, 931 

Russian taganrok, 947 
sauces (see "Sauces"), 

148 
snow eggs, 944 
snow, 943 
sponge-cake',' 913 
steamed, 257 
steamed Graham, 934 
strawberry, 948 
suet, 929 

tapioca custard, 943 
Wesselrode, 966 
Puffs, egg-plaiit, 705 
Pulled bread, 779 
Purge, Bak^d; 697 
carrot, 360 
green pea, 359 
lima bean, 360 
oatmieal, 361 
Purge of chestnuts, 757 
of turnips, 753 
of Jerusalem artichokes, 

714 
of peas, 696 
of spitiach, with butter, 

732 
red' bean, 359 
tomato, 368 
tomato and green pea, 

362 
tomato; and green pea 

without stock. (No. 2),, 

363 
tomato with macaroni, 

361 



Quails, roast, 619 
trussing of, 619 

Queen soup, 335 
vermicelli soup, 340 

Quenelle soup, 360 

Quick rolls, 783 



Rabbit, 41 

or hare (German hasen- 
pfeffer), 615 

or hare, braised, 614 
Radish, 741 
Ragodt, beef, 519 

defined, 161 

mushroom, 682 
Raisin sauce, 928 
Range, essentials for a 
good, 133 

management of, 131 
Raspberry shortcake, 824 
Rgchauffg of beef Ji la jar^ 

dini^re, 526 
Red bean purge, 359 

tomato soup;' 376' 

red snapper, baked, 455 

snapper, boiled, 455 

snapper soup, 395 

snapper, steamed, 454 
RelisHeti, flsh, 836 

pickle, 899 
RhiiWarb,'-' steamed, 228 

stewed, 771 

water, 284 

wine, 1041 
Rib roast, 5'13 
Ricardo sauce fdr game, 625 
Rice, 225 

and tomato soup, 387 

boiled, plain, 661 

boiled with milk, 661 

Gredre; 663 

croquettes, 662 

East IndJj5^ri method, 663 

for invalid', 914 

fritters, 665 

gems, 792 

griddle cakes, 816 

rice muflQns, 790 

pudding, 935, 9^6 

pudding, chicken and, 603 



nt4 



INDEX 



Rice, risotto, 662 

soup (savory), 377 

souffle, 666r, 

steamed, 226 
Risotto, 662 
Rissoles of beef, 518 

of fish, 414 
Roast beef, 510 

beef, recipe, " dont's," 
190 

beef, stuffed or farcied, 
513 

canvas-back ducks, 608 

capon, vnth cream stuff- 
ing, 604 

chestnuts, 759 

corn (old-fashioned), 702 

ham, 567 
Roasting ears, 700 

process, 188 

meat, time for, 190 

goose, 611 

grouse, 621 

gravy for, 192 

lamb, time for, 192 

leg of lahib, 544 

loin of mutton, 543 

loin of pork, 563 

mutton, 192 

oysters (in their ovn^ 
liquor), 479 
Roasting pig, sucking, 559 

plovers, 617 

quails, 619 

round, 512 

ruddy ducks, 609 

spare-rib of pork, 562 

teal, 610 

turkey, 602 

veal, 571 

veal, , time for, 192 

venison (German recipe), 
621 

woodcock, 622 
Roe croquettes, 436 
Rolls, breakfast, 786 

currant, 783 

English breakfast, 789 

Graham, 787 

Parker House, 787 



Rolls, quick, 783 
Rolled boiled beef, 530 

oats, 225 
Roly-poly fruit pudding, 

932 
Roman punch, iced, 977 
Root beer, 1026 
Roots and tubercles, 98 
Rosettes, 927 

ROti de pauvre homme, 605 
Rotterdam pudding, 931 
Roux for thickening sauces, 

501 
Ruddy ducks, roast, 609 
Rum cake, 839 

pudding, 931 
Rusk, 784 
Russian cream, 955 
Russian Julienne soup, 324 

punch tart, 843 
Russian sandv\riches, 799 

zakouski, 898 
Rye bread, 781 

griddle cakes, 814 

Sago pudding, baked, 937 
soup, cream of, 339 
soup, 143 
soup (Hawaiian recipe), . 

366 
Sago soup without meat, 

387 
Salads, 237 
anchovy, 886 
apple-and-celery, 896 
apple-and-cress, 896 
apple-and-nut, 892 
apple-and-pineapple, 890 
artichoke, 872 
asparagus, 874 
asparagus-and-oucumber, 

891 
asparagus-and-shrimp , 

877 
baked banana, 891 
banana and orange, 894 
bean, 864 

bean and beet, 876 
beef, 889 
beet, farci, 876 



INDEX 



tits 



Salads, Brunswick, 8'75 

cabbage, 876 

California flg, 893 

cauliflower, in red-pepper 
cases, 868 

celery, 894 

cherry, 894 

cheese, 895 

chestnut, 895 

chicken, 887 

chicory, 865 

ohiffonade, 871 

cold slaw, 869 

crab, 881 

crab (same as lobsler No. 
3), 880 

crab-and-tomato, 882 

cucumber, 870 

cucumber-and-tomato, 
864 

currant, 893 

daisy, 877 

dandelion, 870 

egg with sardine mayon- 
naise, 877 

endive, with winter, 862 

fish, ornamental, 885 

French, 871 

French bean-and-celery, 
873 

frozen tomato,' 868 

fruit, 893 

German, 872 

German potato, 875 

Independence Day (No. 
1), 864 

Independence Day (No. 
2), 865 

ItaUan, 878, 887 

lettuce, 240 

lettuce, German recipe, 
862 

lettuce, 866 

lettuce-and-tomato, 864 

lettuce lemon, 863 

lettuce, with egg dress- 
ing, 863 

lobster, 241 

lobster (No. 1), 879 

lobster (No. 2), 879 



Salads, lobster (No. 3), 880 

lobster, dressing for, 880 

lobster coral sauce, 
dressing, 881 

Macedoine,.873 

Manhattan, 888 

meat, 240 

mint lemon, 863 

nasturtium, 869 

ornamental flsh, 885 

oyster, 883 i 

pea, 878 

pimola-and-oheese, 865 

pineapple, 890 

plain egg, 877 

poet's recipe for, 854 

potato, 241, 875 

rainbowj 868 

raspberry cream, 891 

rules for, 238 

Russian, 886 

salsify, 879 

salmon mayonnaise, 884 

salmon, moulds, 883 

sardine, 884 

sardine, or Saxon, 886 

Saxon, 886 

scallop, 883 

shadroe, 884 

shrimp-and-tomato aspic, 
882 

sorrel, 873 

spinach, 871 

summer, 861 

surprise, 863 

Swedisli, 885 

sweetbreads-and-oucum- 
ber, 870 

sweetbreads with celery, 
889 

tarragon, fruit, 890 

tirabale of chicken mayon- 
naise, 887 

tomato, 241 

tomato-and-corn, 867 

tomato-and-peanut, 867 

tomato baskets with cu- 
cumber jelly, 866 

tomato jelly, 867 



Ilf6 



INDEX 



Salads, tomato, with 

whipped oream, 868 

truffle, 874 

vegetable, 242 

vegetable, in jelly, 878 

Waldorf, 895 

walnut, 895 

whales, 866 

and relisches, 854 
Salad-dressings, 242, 855 

stir ingredients oarefuUy; 
237 

boiled, 239, 859 

boiled, Mrs. Hotchkin'Sj 
860 

creant', 858 

oream, boiled, 859 

Dr. Kitchener's recipe, 
244 

for lobsler salad, 880 

French, 855 

French (No. 2), 857 

ItaUan, 855 

lemon, 856 

mayonnaise, 857 

mayonnaise cream, 858 
Salad-dressing, orange, 856 

sauce, Ji la Lowry, 246 

sour cream, 858 

sweet, 855 

tarragon vinegar for, 859 

whipped cream, 858 

without oil, 243 
Salad rolls, chicken, 889 
Sally Lunni 784 

muffins, 790 
Salmi, defined, 161 

duck, 610 
Salmon bisque, 354 

boiled, 441 

broiled smoked, 444 

curry of, 443 

mayonnaise, 444 

on toast, 445 

pickled, 444 

pie, 445 

scallop of, 446 

trout, baked, 442 

trout, boiledi 443 



Salt, lOi 

effect on meat, 186 
Salts — ^kinds of; way we 
salt food, 12 

cod, tid-bits, 428 

cod, with brown butter, 
419 

mackerel, baked, 187 
Sandwiches : 

Adelaide, 803 

anchovy, 807 

brunette, 806 

cheese, 798 

chicken, 798 

egg, 798 

fish, 801 

Harlequin, 800 

Irish, 806 ■ 

Italian, 805 

jam, 804 

meat, 797 

nut-and-fruit, 803 

nut-butter, 801 

nut, 799 

Russian, 799 

salmon, 802 
Sandwiches — sardine, 802 

supper, 804 

tutti-frutti, 800 

watercress, or other 
salads, 803 
Sardine fritters ( German ) , 
456 

sauce, 489 
Sauce, 146 

k la Lowry, 246 

allemande, 487 

almond, for pudding, 959 

brain, 574 

brown sugar, 149 

caper, 156 

Chili, 904 

custard, 943 

foamy, 148 

for pudding, 148 

golden, 958 

hard, 149 

hard, 958 

hygienlo oream, 958 



INDEX 



J»7 



Sauce, lemon, 149 

lemon, for pudding, 959 

lobster-coral, 881 

Madeira, 624 

molasses, 958 

orange, 623 

piquante, for roast beef, 

494 
port wine, 623 
prune, 958 
shrimp, for baked bass, 

454 
Spanish, 624 
supreme, 488 
sweet, for pudding, 960 
thickening for, 147 
tomato, for casserole; 178 
truffle, 761 
Sauces (for fish) , allemande, 

487 
cheese, 490 

court-bouillon (for boil- 
ing fish), 484 
cream, 489 
cucumber, 491 
Sauces — dressing for baked 

fish, 490 
egg, 490 
Hollandaise, 486 
India, 487 
■lobster, 485, 488 
pepper, 489 
piquant, 486 
sardine, 489 
shad-roe, 490 
shrimp, 489 
simple sauce for steamed 

or boiled flsh, 487 
suprfeme, 488 
tarlare (for broiled flsh), 

485 
tomato, 485 
tomato tartare, 489 
Sauces (for game), 
Madeira, 624 
orange, 494 
orange, 623 
port wine, 623 
Ricardo, 686 



Sauces, shikaree (for duck 

and wildfowl), 625 

Spanish, 624 | 
Sauces (for meats), an- 
chovy, 494 

Bechamel, 495 

Bernaise, 500 

bread, ,501 

brown, 493 

caper, for mutton, 501 

champagne, for ham, 498 

chestnut, for turkey or 
chicken, 496 

chicken, for sweetbread, 
498 

chive, 497 

currant jelly, 497 

drawn butter, 491, 492 

Gspagnole, 496 

horseradish (hot), 492 

Madeira, 495 

maitre d'hfltel butter, 
495 

mint (for young lamb), 
496 
Sauces — mushroom, 497 

mustard, 495 

olive, 497 

onion (Soubise sauce), 
500 

oyster, 499 

parsley butter, 500 

piquante, for roast beef, 
494 

port wine, 499 

roux (for thickening), 
501 

Soubise (onion sauce), 
500 

tomato, 498 

velout6, 492 

velout6 with claret, 492 

vinaigrette, 492 

white, 493 
Sauces (for puddings), al- 
mond, 959 

cream, 957 

-currant jelly, 957 

custard, 957 

duohesse, 957 



IliS 



INDEX 



Sauces, foaming, 957 

golden, 958 

hard, 958 

hygienic cream, 958 

lemon sauce for puddings, 
959 

molasses, 958 

prune sauce for puddings, 
958 
Sauerkraut, how to dress, 
722 

how to make, 723 
Sausages, 32, 553 

baked, 556 

boiled, with white wine, 
557 

devilled, 556 

Frankfort, 557 

fried, i72 

Jewish, or Chorissa, 537 

Mecklenburg liver; 555 
Saut^ing, 170 
Savory potato soup, 378 
Savory rice soup, 377 
"Scalding" water, 150 
Scallops and eggs, 472 
Scallop of salmon, 446 
Scalloped asparagus, 709 

chicken, 597 

fish, 411 

oysters, 478 

shad-roe, 486 

sweetbreads with mush- 
rooms, 584 

sweetbreads, 583 

tomatoes and potatoes, 
746 
Schnitzel, Wiener, 580 
Scotch hotchpotch, 365 
Scotch kale, 725 

mutton broth, 330 
Scrambled eggs, 635 
Scrapple, fried, recipe, 172 
Seasoning vegetables, 156 
Seasons of the year for 
eating various meats, 
22 / 

for kinds of flsh, 55, etc. 
Sea-urchins, 766 , 



Seidlitz water, bottled, 

1026 
Seltzer lemonade, 1031 
Shad, baked, 432 

broiled, 434 

creamed, 433 

planked, 52 

roe, creamed, with mush- 
rooms, 436 

roe, fried, 434 

roe sauce, 490 

roe, scalloped, 436 
Sheep's head, 30 

head k la Creole, 457 

tongue in aspic, 627 
Shellfish, 58 (see also flsh) 
Sheipbet, lemon, 284 

orange, 1032 
Shikaree sauce (for duck 

and. wild fowl), 625 
Shirred eggs, 640 
Shortbread, Scotch, 785 
Shortcake, 823 

cake paste, 250 

steaks, 27 
Shoulder of mutton, stuffed, 

540 
Shrimps, 472, 489 

and mushrooms, 473 
Shrimp gumbo, 397 

sauce for baked bass, 454 
Silver cake, 829 
Sirloin of beef, 27 ■ 
Skink, Balnamoon, or Irish 

soup, 332 
Smelts, baked, 446 

fried, 447 

stuffed, 447 \ 

Smoked salmon, broiled, 444 
Smothered beef, 522 

meat, 26 
Snails, edible, 480 
Snapper, red, baked, 455 

red, boiled, 455 

red, soup, 395 

red, steamed, 454 
Snapping turtle, fricasseed, 

468 
Snaps, ginger, 849 



INDEX 



JJJ9 



^ Snipe, cooked (German 

fashion), 620 
Snow cake, 830 
eggs, 944 
pudding, 943 
'Soda, scones, Scotcli, 785 
Soft-olam chowder, 392 
shell crabs, boiled, 470 
shell crabs, fried, 471 
Sole, mieted (S, I'ltalienne), 

459 
Sorbetof kirschenwasser, 977 

of rum, 978 
Sorrel soup, 377 
cream of, 343 
Soubise sauce (onion sauce), 

500 
Soup balls (matzoth), 406 
stock, 135, 300 (See also 
" Stock.") 
Soups, thickenings for, 147 
k la Grecque, 344 
almond milk, 334 
American, 383 
apple, 404 
baked-be?,n, 3»2 
bean, 382 

bean and tomato,. 379 
beef (French method), 

144 
beef and chicken stock, 

308 
beef bouillon, 809 
beef, 310 

tea (No. 1 and 2), 311 
beer (German method), 

402 
bisque of crabs, 356 
bisque of halibut (No. 1), 

353 
bisque of lobster, 355 
bouillabaisse, 400 
browned potato, 378 
brunoise, 312 
calf's foot consommg, 314 
carrot, 377 
carrot pur6e, 360 
cheese bisque, 357 
chicken, quickly made, 312 



Soups, chicken, with leeks 
and onions, 312 
chicken, bisque, 353 
chicken cream, 34i 
chicken gumbo, 330 
chicken gumbo, with oys- 
ters, 331 
cider, 404 
clam bisque, 352 
clam chowder, 391 
clear, with noodles, 313 
cocoanut, 370 
cock-a-leekie, 366 
Colbert consomme, 318 
Soups — consommS, Ji I'imp- 
6ratrice, 318 
consomme almond, 314 
consommS amber, 314 
consommg chestnut, 319 
consomme curry, 319 
consomme printanifere, 

321 
consommg royal, 320 
consomme spinach, 319 
consomme with asparagus 

tips, 316 
consomme with Brussels 

sprouts, 316 
consomme with cucum- 
ber, 316 
consomme with egg balls, 

315 
consomme with mush- 
rooms, 317 
consomme with tomato 

blocks, 320 
consomme, with vermi- 

ceUi, 317 
corn bisque, 357 
corn chowder, 398 
court bouillon, 400 
crab, 396 
cranberry, 384 
Crecy, 321 
cream, 334 
cream cheese (No. 1 and 

2), 336 
cream of asparagus, 350 
cream of barley, 343 
cream of beef, 338 



n20 



INDEX 



Soups, cream of cabbage, 

345 

cream of cavlifflower, 351 

cream 6f celery, 351 

cream of chestnuts, 349 

cream lof green peas, 351 

cream of lettuce, 350 

cream of mushroom, 344 

cream of pea, 338 

cream of potato, 344 

cream of sago, 339 

cream of sorrel, 343 

cream of spinach, with 
egg balls, 348 

cream of turnip, 339 

cream of watercress, 341 

aried bean, 369 

duchesse, 334 

duchesse, consomme, 318 

eel, 396 

egg, 144, 387 

egg balls, 348 

EngUsh beef, 321 

family, 369 

farmer's chowder, 374 

fish, 395 

flsh, chowder, 389 

Flemish, 368 

French, 369 

French fisherman's chow- 
der, 392 

fruit, 403 

frijole, 385 

game, 399 

giblet, 322 

green-pea pur6e, 359 

gumbo fil6e, 332 

hard-pea, 370 

hasty, 323 

herb, with Parmesan, 367 

hulled corn, 342 

Inexpensive, 323 

Irish, or Balnamoon skink, 
332 

Jenny Lind's, 341 

julienne, 142, 323 

kale brose, 333 

leek, 340 

left-over, 325 

lentil, 386 

lettuce, 367 



Soups^lima^bean purge, 360 
Macedoine, 335 
marrow balls for con- 
somme, 317 
meagre, 385 
moefe bisque, 358 
mock teijrapin, 395 
mock turtle, 371 
moek turtle, bean, 380 
mulligatawny, 325 
nut-and-tomato, 347 
oatmeal piu-^e,. 3,61 
okra, 377, 380, 
onion, simple, 366 
onion (Spanish), 327 
onion cream, 337 
oxtail, 327 
oyster bisque, 355 
oyster gumbo, 331 
Parisian-Spanish, 364 
Parisian,. 365 
parsnip, 381- 
peanut, 346 
Portuguese, 400 
pot au feu, 401 
potato chowder, 397 
queen, 335 
queen vermicelli, 340 
quenelle, 364 
red bean pur^e, 359 
red-snqpper, 395 
red tomato, ^76 
rice and, tomato, 387 r 
Russian julienne, 324 
sago, 143 
sago (Hawaiian recipe), 

366 
sago, without meat, 387 
salmon bisque, 354 
savory potato, 378 
savory rice, 377 
Scotch hotchpotch, 365 
Scotch mutton broth, 330 
shrimp gTimbo, 397 
soft-clam chowder, 393 
sorrel, 377 
spinach, 374 
split-pea, 379 
split-pea (NO. 2)', 381 
squash, 386 



INDEX 



»W. 



Soups, succotash, 375 
terrapin, 393 
tomato, 142 
tomato bisque, 358 . 
tomato cream (Nos. i and 

2), 337 
tomato purge, 363 
tomato purge with mac- 
aroni, 361 
tomato and bean soup, 

375 
tomato and green corn, 

143 
tomato and green-pea 

purge, 362 
tomato and green-pea 

purge, without stock 

(No. 2), 363 
tomato and macaroni, 

quiclsly made, 345 
turkey, 373 
turtle, 394 
vegetable, 141 
velvet, 342 

velvet, malgre, 365 * 
Virginia oyster, 346 
white bean, 373 
Souse, 564 

Spanish onions, baked, 736 
onion soup, 327 
sauce, 624 
Spare-rib of pork, roasted, 

562 ' 
Spiced pressed beef, 520 

tomatoes, 905 
Spinach, 214, 221 
as greens, 730 
consommg, 3l9 
cream of, with egg-balls, 

348 
eggs, and, 639 
German mode of cooking, 

730 
how to serve, 729 
purge of, with butter, 732 
soup, 374 
with eggs, 731 
SpUt-pea soup, 379 
, soup (No, 2), 381 



Sponge cake, 839 

cake, pudding, 913 
SpringerleSj 850 , 
Sprouts, Brussels, 719 

Brussels, sautg, 720 
Squab; 39 

Squash, summer, how to 
cook, 733 -, 

winter, boiled, 733 
Squash; soup, 386 
Squirrel, 40 , 
Starches and sugars, 11; 
Steak, carving of round, ax^ 
rump, 1014 

a, la Bordelaise, 527 

broiled, recipe, 183 

halibut, k la Flajmande, 
440 

halibut, baked with toma- 
toes, 440 

Hamburg, 507 

how to broil, 505 

Italian, 536 : 

pan-broiled, 506 

venison, broiled, fi21 
Steamed' red snapper, 454 
Steaming/ meat, 26 

process, 193 
Stew, Irish, 524 
Stewed apples, 769 

apples, in whiskey, 768 

beef, recipe, J^62 

brisket of beef, 533 , 

button mushrooms, 68.1 

carrots in cream, 709 

celery (h la orfeme), 7p,6 

chestnuts, 758 

codfish, 427 

cucumbers, 727, 

lettuce, 755 

onions, 737 

ox kidney, 627 

peas in turnip cups, 697 

peppers, 760 

prunes, 774, 

rhubarb, 771 

sweetbreads, 587 

tomatoes, 744 

tomatoes and corn, 745 



,It22 



INDEX 



Stewed turnips (k la 

Franoalse), 753 
Stewing, meat prepared for, 
161 

process, 158 

process and effects, 158 

vegetables with meat, 161 
Stock, for consommg, 308 

for soup, 135 
Stock, from bones, 307 
Stove, blacking, 133 
Strawberry croquettes, 766 

cups, 766 

jelly, 916 

pudding, 948 

sherbet, 976 

shortcake, 824 
Stuffed anchovies, 896 

artichokes, 713 

and baked onions, 737 

and roasted Belgian hare, 
616 

and roasted leg of pork, 
561 

and roasted pigeons (Ger- 
man method), 618 

breast of veal, 572 

cabbage, 720 

calf's heart, 629 

cucumber, 726 

leg of mutton, 538 

lettuce, 756 

mangoes, 901 

or farcied roast of beef, 
513 

peppers, 899 

sea bass, 452 

shoulder of mutton, 540 

smelts, 447 

sweet peppers, 759 

tomatoes, 748 

tomatoes with chicken 
salad, 749 

tomatoes, with meat or 
flsh, 748 

turnips, large, 754 
Stuffing, chestnut, 603 

of chestnuts for pig, 
sucking, 561 

oysters, 603 



String beans (cream sauce), 
687 
beans boiled, 686 
beans with gravy, 687 
Sturgeon, 466 
Suet pudding, 929 
Sugar (burnt), for sauces 

and soups, 407 
Sugar, how many " cups " 
to the pound, etc., 292 
Summer salads, 861 

squash, how to cook, 733 
Sunshine cake, 827 
Surprise Balls, 217 

melon, 972 
Swanenhalse, 853 
Sweetbreads, 31, 586 
k la crSme, 996 
braised or smothered; 

589 
boiled, with tomato sauce, 

586 
broiled, with stuffed toma- 
toes, 587 
fried, 589 
larded, k la flnancifere, 

590 
scalloped, 583 
scalloped, with mush- 
rooms, 584 
stewed, 587 

with spaghetti or maca- 
roni and tomatoes, 584 
Sweetbread croquettes, 588 
patties (vol-au-vents), 
588 
Sweetbread sautd, 995 
Sweet pickles, green toma- 
•toe, 904 
pickled pears or peaches, 
904 
Sweet potatoes and apples, 
657 
potatoes, au gratin, 657 
potatoes, escalloped, 657 
potato croquettes, 658 
potato soufQ^, 652 
Swiss cabbage, 725 
Swiss cream, 949 
Syrup, caramel, 201 



INDEX 



H23 



Table, average cost of ma- 
terial used in cooking, 
294 
"Tablespoonful," as meas- 
ure, 293 
Taffy, plain, 981 
Tapioca custard, 943 

jelly, 913 
Tarragon vinegar for salad 

dressings, 859 
Tart, gooseberry, 771 
Tartare sauce (for broiled 

fish), 485 
Tchai (Russian), 1023 
Tea, 207 

hot, cold, 1023 

never should be boiled, 
280 

punch (June), 1024 

qualities and effects, 280 

recipe, 286 

Russian, 1023 

tchai (Russian), 1023 
Teal ducks, broiled, 609 

roast, 610 
" Teaspoonful," 293 
Tenderloin of beef, 27 
■Terras used in cooking, 

1046-1064 
Terrapin, 999 

chicken, 598 

how to dress, 466 

(mock) soup, 395 

soup, 393 

stewed, 467 
Thanksgiving surprise, 839 
Thickenings, for sauces, 

gravies, and soups, 147 
Tidbits, salt cod, 428 
Timbales, chicken, 601, 631 
Time for roasting meat, 190 
Time-table for broiling, 184 

for cooking, 295 
Toast, 282, 286 

buttered, 793 

cheese, 797 

cream, 795 

creamed, 1002 

fried or French, 795 

German, 7?3 



Toast, milk, 795 

mushroom, creamed, 796 

oyster, 796 

salmon on, 445 

tomato, 751 
Tomatoes, 742, 746 
Tomatoes, baked with eggs, 
747 

curried, with okra, 743 

curried with rice, 743 

eggs with, 638 

French, 752 

fried, recipe, 171 

fried, 749 

green, fried, 750 

scalloped, and potatoes, 
746 

spiced, 905 

stewed, 219, 744 

stewed, and corn, 745 

stuffed, 748 

stuffed, with chicken 
salad, 749 

stuffed, with meat or flsh, 
748 

with aspic jelly, 751 
Tomato and bean soup, 375 

and green corn soup, 143 

and green pea pur^e, 362 

and green pea pur^e with- 
out stock (No. 2), 363 

and macaroni soup, quick- 
ly made, 345 

(bean and) soup, 379 

bisque, 358 

catsup, 904 

cream soup, Nos. 1 and 2, 
337 

nut and, soup, 347 

omelet, 643 

pur^e, 363 

purfie with macaroni, 361 

(red) soup, 376 

sauce, 485, 498 

sauce for casserole, 178 

soufQ6, 752 

soup, 142 

tartare, 489 

toast, 751 

sweet pickles, green, 904 



im 



INDEX 



Tongue, beef's braised, 532 

beef, fillets, saut^ed, 629 

calf's boiled, 573 

sheep's, in aspic, 627 
Tongues, cod poulette, 429 
Tongues, cod with black 
buttgpsauce, 429 

cod, with egg sauce, 428 
Tough meat made tender 

with acid, 15 
Tripe i la Creole, 995 

i la poulette, 995 
Truffle, 760 

sauce, 761 
Truffles aux champsigne, 
762 

with eggs, 762 
Trussing, 36 

of quails, 619 
Tubercles, 98 
Turbot k la cr6me, 451 

fllletr452 
Turkey, bread for,, 603 

carving, 1017 

hen preferable, 33 

roast, 602 

soup, 373 
Turkeys, 37 
Turnips, 213 

and potatoes, 755 

boiled, 22,0 

fried, 754 

large, stuffed, 754 

pur^e of, 753 

soup, cream of, 339 
Turnips, stewed, S, la Fran- 

eaise, 753 
Turtle, mock, soup, 371 

mock, bean, 380 

soup, 394 
Tutti-frutti sandwich, 800 

Unfermented bread, 779 

Vanilla ice cream, 963 , 

parfait, 969 
Veal, 30 

blanquette of, with cu- 
cumbers, 582 

breast of, stuffed, 572 



Veal broth, 912 

croquettes, with mush- 
rooms, 576 
cutlets, 31 
cutlets, breaded, with 

tomato sauce, 568 
cutlets, plain, 568 
fricadelles of, 572 
fricassee, recipe, 164 
fricassee, 576 
how divided by butcher, 

30 
kidney, sautd, -994 
liver pkt6, 583 . 
loaf, 577 
not very nutritious meat, 

16 
potpie, 569 
roast, 571 

roast, time for, 192 
shoulder of, boned, 204 
Vegetables, artichokes k 

I'ltalienne, 714 
artichokes, fried, 712 
artichokes, Jerusalem, 

fricasseed, 713 
artichokes, stewed in 

gravy, 712 
artichokes, stuffed, 713 
asparagus i la cr6me, 

711 
baked egg and tomatoes, 

750 
baked egg-plant, 705 
baked mushrooms, 683 
baked pur6e, 697 
baked Spanish onions, 

736 
beans, fricasseed, 690 

mashed, 690 
be'ets, 702 
boiled, 704 
beet greens, with young 

beets, 703 
boiled asparagus, 710 
boiled cabbage, 722 
boiled carrots, 708 
baked cauliflower, 715 
boiled celery, 706 
boiled parsnips, 685 



INDEX 



n25 



Vegetables, boiled winter 
8quash,733 
boiling, 155 

Boston baked beans, 692 
broiled green corn, 702 
broiled mushrooms, 679 
Vegetables — Brussels 

sprouts, 719 
sautd, 720 

cabbage, ^ la Lilloise, 721 
cabbage and bacon, 718 
cabbage, how to keep 

fresh, 721 
carrots, how to drfess in 

the German way, 709 
carrots, ii la Flamande, 

707 
cauliflower, au gratin, 716 
cauliflower, boiled with 

butter sauce, 715 
cauliflower, how to cook, 

714 
cauliflower in cheese, 718 
cauliflower with stufQng, 

717 
cauliflower with tomato 
sauce, 717 

celery, how to dress, 706 
celery, how to fry, 707 
chestnuts, compOte of, 

758 
chestnuts, purge of, 757 
cliestnuts, roasted, 759 
. chestnuts, stewed, 758 
common, preparing to 

cook, 223 
cooking in water, 209 
cottager's pie, 680 
corn, 698 
corn fritters, 699 
corn pudding, 699 
creamed beets, 704 
creamed cabbage, 719 
creamed corn, 700 
creamed mushrooms, 681 

cucumbers, k la 

poulette, 727 
cucumbers, how to dress, 

729 
cucumber mangoes, 725 



Vegetables, curried lentils, 692 
curried tomatoes with 

okta, 743 
curried tomatoes with 

rice, 743 
egg-plant puffs or 

fritters, 705 
egg-plant, stuffed with 

nuts, 705 
endive, dressed, 756 
escalloped cauliflower, 

715 
escalloped corn, 698 
escalloped mushrooms, 

682 '' 
fagadu bradu, 732 ' 

foreign names of, 1046- 

1064 
French beans k la maitre 

d'hetel, 687 
French tomatoes, 752 
fricasseed asparagus, 711 
fried corn, 701 
fried egg-plant, 705 
fried tomatoes, 749 
green corn omelet, 701 
green corn soufQfi, 700 
green peas, k la crfeme, 

351 
green peas, to boil, 694 
green tomatoes, fried, 750 
grilled tomatoes, 746 
haricot beans (lima 

beans) k la maitre 

d'hfltel, 688 
haricot beans, with 

onions, 689 
horseradish, 745 
horseradish sauce, 745 
Jerusalem artichokes 

stewed, 712 I 

kidney beans, 691 
leeks, 739 

leeks, how to boil, 740 
lettuce, stewed, 755 
lettuce stuffed, 756 
lima beans k la poulette, 

689 
mushroom catsup, 684 
mushroom ragofit, 682 



1(26 



INDEX 



Vegetables, mushrooms 

with bacon, 683 

mushroom and beefsteak 
pie, 680 

onions, S, la orfeme, 645 

onions and eggs, 735 

onions for beefsteak, etc., 
738 

onions porridge, 735 

onions, stuffed and baked, 
737 

onions, with grated 
cheese, 739 

oyster-plant, 678 

oyster-plant, creamed, 679 
* oyster-plant, fried, 678 

parsnips browned under 
roast meat, 686 

parsnips, fried, 686 

peas, 692 

peas, -green, 694 

peas, green, stewed, 695 

peppers, Creole, 759 

percentage of water in, 
99 

pickled beets, 704 

pickled cucumbers, 728 

pickled mushrooms, 685 

pickled onions, 734 

plain boiled onions, 736 

polenta, 691 

purge of Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, 714 

pur6e of peas, 696 

radish, 741 

recipes, 647 

roasted corn (old-fash- 
ioned), 702 

roasting ears, 700 

rules for cooking, 222 

sauerkraut, how to make, 
723 

scalloped asparagus, 709 

scalloped tomatoes and 
potatoes, 746 

Scotch kale, 725 

seasoning, 156 

soup, 141 

spinach, as greens, 730 



Vegetables, spinach, German 
mode of cooking, 730 
spinach, how to serve, 

729 
spinach, pur^e of, with 

butter, 732 
spinach with eggs, 731 
stewed button mushrooms, 

681 
stewed carrots in cream, 

709 
stewed celery (5, la 

cr6me), 706 
stewed cucumbers, 727 
stewed onions, 737 
stewed peas in turnip- 
cups, 697 
stewed peppers, 760 
stewed tomatoes, 744 
stewed tomatoes and 

corn, 745 
string beans, boiled, 686 
string beans (cream 

sauce), 687 
string beans with gravy, 

687 
stufCed cabbage, 720 
stuffed cucumber, 726 
stuffed sweet peppers, 

759 
stuffed tomatoes, 746 
succotash, 699 
summer squash, how to 

cook, 733 
Swiss cabbage, 725 
take longer to cook in 

winter, 213 
tomatoes, 742 
tomatoes, baked with 

eggs, 747 
tomatoes, stuffed with 

chicken salad, 749 
tomatoes, stuffed with 

meat or flsh, 748 
tomatoes with aspic jelly, 

751 
tomato toast, 751 
tomato souffle, 752 
truffles, 760 



INDEX 



tI27 



Vegetables, truffle sauce, 

761 

truffles aux champagne, 
762 

truffles with eggs, 762 

turnips and potatoes, 755- 

turnips, fried, 754 

turnips, puree of, 753 

turnips, large, stuffed, 
754 

turnips, stewed {k la 
Frangaise), 753 

vegetable cutlets, 716 

vermicelli k la reine, 677 

vermicelli with milk, 677 

winter squash, boiled, 
733 
Vegetarianism, 106 
Vegetarian coffee, 1022 
/ fruit course, 766 
Velout6 sauce with claret, 

492 
Velvet cream, 950 

molasses candy, 982 

soup, 342 

soup maigre, 365 
Venison, 340 

roast (German recipe), 
621 

steaks, broiled, 621 

when in season, 32 
Vermicelli, 676 

(Invalid), 914 

k la Reine, 677 

consommS with, 317 

soup, queen, 340 

with broiled chicken, 676 

with milk, 677 
Vinaigrette of cold meat, 
581 

sauce, 492 
Violette cake, 829 
Virginia oyster soup, 346 

Wafers, walnut, 850 
Waffles, rice, 812 
Walnut wafers, 850 
Walnuts, pickled, 900 
Water containing salt or 
sugar, hard to boil, 153 



Walnuts, gruel, 914 

ice, lemon, 284 
Water — ^ices, 974 
Water-toast, 287 
Water — ^when not to use 

after boiling, 151 
Watercress, cream of, 340 
or other salad, sandwich, 
803 
Watermelon pickle, 903 
Welsh rarebit, 987 

rarebit, 986 

rarebit, 1002 

rarebit without ale, 987 
Wheat — varieties and quali- 
ties, 229 

bread, whole, 779 

cakes, 813 
Wheatena gruel, 285 
Whey, 914 
Whipped cream, 952 
White broths with vermi- 
, celll, 914 

sauce, 493 
White bean-soup, 373 
Whitebait, dressed, 461 
Whiting aux fines herbes 

(English), 463 
Wiener schnitzel, 580 
Wine, grape, 1040 

May, 1035 

rhubarb, 1041 
Winter squash, boiled, 733 
Woodcock, roast, 622 



Yeast — ^nature and action 
of; home-made and 
manufactured, 532- 
533 
ordinary, and brewers, 230 

Yorkshire pudding (to be 
eaten with roast beef), 
514 



Zakouski, Russian, 898 
Zwieback, 796 



kMi^uZ-uL 



^--^A ^--^^ ^,. 







-iiiA- 



// 



.^....:: 






ytj^t.^'t 



/ / -"1 



A^-^y-^'-A-u^ 



>« 



/.<^'S 






Pei?« laaajon Drying 



To dry peralmuons, tha a :ln is care- 
fully peelad off and the atsm is tlai to 
a strii^. Th«y are hung out In the sun for 
tha first wfek or waek and a half. When 
thay hare reached a certain stag®, they 
are brought Inside to continue tha process. 
It requires three to four weeks, -iepandlng 
on the weather. After hrin^insl -lor . thr e or 
four weeks, they are put 4j|. boxers where a 
nattaral white sugara comes put[_and^ remains 
on the surface. Five pounds of fp^sli fruit 
produce one po\md, of drlecl.. .T?ie confection 
is eaten out of hand or reconstituted with 
water and used In cooking. 

Calif, farmer Nov. 20, *71 



