



Book of Recipes 



• 




PUBLISHED BY 

THE CA.LDRIC COMPANY 

JANESVIUJE, WIS, 




M 



BERKELEY 

LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY OF 
CALIFORNIA 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

AGRICULTURE 

BEQUEST 

OF 

ANITA D. S. BLAKE 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2006 with funding from 

Microsoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/caloricbookOOcalorich 



CALORIC 
BOOK OF RECIPES 

A COMPILATION OF 

MORE THAN THREE HUNDRED SUPERIOR 
RECIPES, INCLUDING SOUPS, FISH, MEATS, 
VEGETABLES, CEREALS, SAUCES, BREAD, 
SALADS, PIES, PUDDINGS, CAKE, FRUITS 
AND PRESERVES 



ESPECIALLY ADAPTED 
TO THE IMPROVED 
CALORIC COOKSTOVE 



TENTH EDITION 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE CALORIC COMPANY 

janesville, wisconsin 

Price 50 Cents 



Copyright 1912 

By The Caloric Company 

Janesville, Wisconsin 



AGRICULTURE 
GIFT 



C3S 

AGRIC. 

LIBRARY 



INTRODUCTION 



THE recipes, explanations and directions, together with 
a number of useful hints and suggestions pertaining 
to the culinary art, contained in this volume have 
been prepared, primarily, for the benefit of users 
of the Caloric Fireless Cookstove. It should, per- 
haps, be explained here that the word "fireless" is a misnomer. 
The proper word is "recalorator," which literally means con- 
server of heat, just as "refrigerator" means conserver of cold. 
In both instances, the initial calor (heat) and frigor (cold) 
must be provided. 

In the "hay-box," the predecessor of the Caloric Cook- 
stove, the initial heat was supplied by a large body of water or 
liquid in which the food to be cooked was placed and brought 
to the boiling point. The insulation of the hay kept the heat 
from dissipating into the surrounding atmosphere, just as the 
charcoal and air chamber insulation of the refrigerator keep 
the surrounding warmer air from rapidly melting the ice. For 
boiling, steaming (to a certain extent) and stewing, the boiling 
liquid or water was adequate to complete the cooking. But, of 
course, the temperature could not be raised above two hundred 
and twelve degrees Fahrenheit. Inasmuch as there are cer- 
tain foods which cannot be cooked properly by boiling or 
stewing in a liquid, the primitive "hay-box" and its commercial 
successor, the original Caloric Fireless Cookstove, were not 
real cookstoves — they could neither bake or roast. To supply 
this deficiency comes the modern Caloric, which with is genu- 
ine steatite radiators, furnishes sufficient stored heat to raise 



132 



4 ' CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

the temperature in the Caloric insulated oven to over four hun- 
dred degrees Fahrenheit. Inasmuch as the baking heat is only 
between three hundred and twenty-five and three hundred and 
fifty degrees, it will be readily appreciated that the modern 
Caloric really does BAKE and ROAST, as well as boil, steam 
and stew — literally cooking practically everything for the 
table. That this method of cooking is superior in results, from 
every standpoint, we need not explain — it is too well under- 
stood. 

The first requisite is to acquaint one's self thoroughly with 
the modern Caloric. Therefore, we request all housewives to 
study carefully the directions for its use. 

Although the time and ingredients required for cooking 
are stated, nevertheless, a little experience will demonstrate 
that these may be regulated according to the tastes of the 
individual. It will take a little time for the thoughtful house- 
wife to master all the advantages of the Caloric. There are 
countless possibilities, not mentioned in this book, which time 
and practice will reveal . 

Pains have been taken to make the book international in 
its scope and, in so far as possible, to please the varied tastes. 
It should be understood at the beginning, however, that any 
recipe may be used in preparing food to be cooked in the Ca- 
loric. After some practice and by following the instructions in 
in this book, any woman will be able to prepare whatsoever 
viands she may desire. It is the purpose of this book to set 
forth, principally, the method of preparing food. Formerly 
many ingredients were added to the food while cooking, but 
all tihe details may now be attended to before the food is 
placed in the Caloric. 

THE CALORIC COMPANY 



EXCLUSIVE CALORIC FEATURES 

It Will Bake and Roast as well as steam, stew and boil. No 
preheating of foods necessary, — no basting, — no waste of 
food stuffs. Never burns, never fails. 

Caloric Cases. In keeping with every modern kitchen conven- 
ience, the "Caloric is substantially constructed of se- 
lected oak, the paneled case making it indestructible, giv- 
ing it an up-to-date air which every housekeeper appre- 
ciates and enjoys. 

Caloric Insulation. The acknowledged superior effciency of 
the Caloric is in a great measure due to the use of our 
patented insulating materials — for retaining the heat in 
the cooking department. 

Caloric Ventilating Valve regulates the moist or dry heat in 
the cooking compartment of the Caloric Fireless Cook- 
stove. This is a distinguishing feature of the Caloric, 
Insist on a ventilating valve when you buy a fireless 
cookstove. For Roasting and Baking, to insure dry 
heat, slightly raise the cap from the top of the valve, al- 
lowing free escape of all steam.. For steaming, Stew- 
ing or Boiling, the valve is self -regulating. 

Caloric Rediators from the soap stone ledges of Virginia ab- 
sorb and radiate more heat than any other mineral or 
composition known to science. They cost several times 
as much as iron or steel but they are efficient. 

5 



6 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Easy and Simple to Operate. The radiators supplying the 
necessary heat for "Caloric" cooking are heated for a 
few minutes over an ordinary flame (same as a flat iron), 
then placed in the oven — the aluminum utensils contain- 
ing the foods are placed on top of the radiators. Close 
and latch the cover — the "Caloric" will do the rest. 
Simple, isn't it? 

Caloric Cabinets^ Substantially constructed of selected solid 
oak finished to match the Caloric Cookstove provides a 
convenient place for the storage of all cooking utensils 
and raises the stove to a proper height. 

Caloric Stove Bases. An inexpensive, strong and well con- 
structed base for use in connection with Caloric Fire- 
less Cookstoves raising the stove to a proper height and 
castered so that it can be conveniently moved from 
place to place. 

The CALORIC Cabinets and Stove Bases are made in vari- 
ous sizes to fit any past or present model CALORIC Fireless 
Cookstove. 



CONTENTS. 



PARTI 

Pag€ 

Directions for Using the Caloric 11 

Important Don'ts If 

Important Things to Do 13 

The Metal Parts 13 

The Heating of Radiators 15 

Care of Caloric Utensils 16 

Boling, Steaming and Stewing 17 

Roasting 19 

Baking 20 

Suggestions 21 

PART II 
Recipes 

Soups 27 

Fish 35 

Meats 38 

Sauces for Fish and Meat 75 

Vegetables 78 

Cereals 89 

Bread 91 

Salads .. 96 

Pies 100 

Puddings 101 

7' 



8 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Pudding Sauces 107 

Cake 109 

Souffles 115 

Stewed and Baked Fruits 117 

Fruit Sauces 119 

Coffee 121 

Canning and Preserving 122 

PART III. 

Table of Measures 125 

Table of Proportions 127 

Household Hints 128 

Blank Pages for Written Recipes 139 



PART I. 
Directions for using the Caloric. 




While the Meal Is Cooking UNATTENDED in tfie Caloric 



PARTI 
DIRECTIONS FOR USING THE CALORIC 

The principle of fireless cooking, as exemplified by the 

Caloric Cookstove, is that of recaloration, or the retention, 
through insulation, of heat previously generated. In cooking, 
ordinarily, food is heated to a certain temperature; then it is 
left over the fire, not to get hotter — that would be impossible 
— but to keep it at that degree of heat. The dissipation of heat 
in the surrounding air makes it necessary to keep on supply- 
ing heat in order that the cooking food may continue at the 
cooking temperature. A method was long sought, for hygienic 
as well as economic reasons, by which, the heat energy once 
generated, might be conserved without having to add con- 
stantly thereto. Such a method is hygienic, because it is ad- 
mitted that food cooked in a comparatively even temperature 
is not only more nutritious, but also more palatable than that 
cooked fiercely over, on or in the hottest possible temperature. 
The Caloric was the first to utilize practically this principle in 
the making of a commercial fireless cookstove. Now, the Caloric 
has made another great stride forward, in the evolution of the 
new Caloric, which has literally perfected the art of fireless 
cooking, not alone in the boiling, steaming and stewing fea- 
tures, but it has also rendered possible baking and roasting as 
well. Of course, for baking and roasting, some heat must first 
be placed in the cabinet, and this is done by means of steatite 

11 



12 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

radiators. With this heat the new Caloric economically and 
satisfactorily accomplishes practically everything which is pos- 
sible on a range or any other stove. 



IMPORTANT DONT'S 

Don't expect the impossible of the Caloric — that is, abso- 
lute success every time it is used. Failures have occurred in 
using a costly range when the wind was in the wrong direction 
and the drafts would not work well, or when something was 
overlooked ;. but these failures did not cause discouragement 
or the condemnation of the range. Please give the Caloric an 
equal chance. 

Don't leave the radiators in the oven after the cooking is 
finished. 

Don't fail to dry them thoroughly before reheating. 

Don't try to cook small portions in a large oven, except as 
directed under "Important Things To Do." 

Don't use too much water in Caloric cooking. Not much 
is needed. A tablespoonful is often sufficient. ^ 

Don't blame the Caloric if directions are not followed. 

Don't blame the Caloric if the radiators are not heated 
enough. Some things naturally require more heat than others. 

Don't scrape the aluminum utensils with a knife, wire 
cleaner, or other sharp instrument. 

Don't use lye, ashes, or any washing powder or soap con- 
taining alkali. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 13 

IMPORTANT THINGS TO DO 

Keep the stove open when not in use. 

Keep the radiators dry by placing them on a hot air regis- 
ter, a steam radiator, or in a place where the sun will strike 
them. 

Radiators will absorb cold as well as heat and in the win- 
ter time, when they become thoroughly chilled, they should be 
heated slowly at first or they will be liable to crack. 

If the radiators become moist in long processes of cooking 
as in the case of cooking cereals, etc., they should be thoroughly 
dried before reheating them for further use. 

The linings of the compartments must be kept dry. When 
cooking is finished, wipe and dry thoroughly. Use scalding water 
for washing and wipe them off occasionally with a cloth moistened 
with olive oil. 

In cooking a small portion of food, the smallest utensil 
should be used. If there is considerable space left in the com- 
partment, fill another utensil with hot water and place it in the 
oven at the same time, thereby leaving less air to be heated. 
In an instance of this kind, it is of great advantage to have a 
set of triple or double utensils. One or two may be used for 
cooking foods and the others filled with hot water. 

THE METAL PARTS 

The Caloric Cookstove may have been standing closed for 
a considerable length of time before its receipt by a purchaser 
and for this reason, the linings should be thoroughly washed 



14 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

with clean water and soap, or scalded with boiling water. They 
should then be wiped perfectly dry and the covers allowed to 
stand open for several hours, in order that the compartments 
may be thoroughly aired. After each use of the Caloric, it 
should be washed clean and wiped dry. The covers should be 
allowed to stand open when the cookstove is not in use. If 
they are tightly closed when the Caloric is not in use, the lack 
of air may cause the cookstove to give oif a musty odor and 
this odor may sometimes be imparted to delicate foods. It is 
well understood that a room or a house when closed up tightly 
becomes musty and the same is true of the Caloric in a greater 
degree because the metal compartments are practically air 
tight. A good housekeeper does not put away cooking utensils 
with the covers on them as they would not keep sweet under 
such conditions. 

When convenient the cookstove should have a thorough 
airing out of doors at least once a week. If it is not convenient 
to do this, the stove should be placed in front of a window, 
where the sun may shine in the ovens. 

When cooking, the utensil covers and the steatite radia- 
tors must be properly in place before any attempt is made to 
shut the covers of the stove. Otherwise, the metal may be 
dented. 

It should be remembered that the action of heat and 
steam in the Caloric stoves is very severe. Therefore, the 
metal lining cannot be expected to remain bright. The heat 
from the radiators will darken it. The chemical action of 
acids in some foods will discolor any metal, no matter what 
it is. This discoloration in no way affects the cleanliness of 
the stove, hence no attempt should be made to keep the lin- 
ing bright by scouring it with gritty soaps or powders. Such 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 15 

a proceeding will scratch the surface of the metal and may, 
eventually, start rust or corrosion. The oven in an ordinary 
range does not remain perfectly bright and the Caloric oven 
should not be expected to do so. Water or moisture should 
never be allowed to stand in the metal compartments. 



THE HEATING OF RADIATORS 

The steatite radiators may be heated on gas, gasoline, 
denatured alcohol, oil, electric, coal or wood stoves or ranges. 
Care should be taken that the radiators are not allowed to 
become red hot. 

The time required to give the radiators the necessary 
temperature is from ten to twenty minutes, depending, of 
course, on the size and intensity of the blaze used and the 
amount of heat required. Much less heat is needed for baking 
a cake than for roasting a large piece of meat. Judgment must 
be used. The radiators should be tested as one would test a 
sad-iron. For boiling and steaming, only moderate heat is 
required, while for roasting meat it is necessary to have the 
radiators very hot. 

With very little trouble, considerable fuel and time, may 
be saved by keeping the radiators moderately warm. In the 
summer time they may be placed out of doors in the sun, if 
convenient. They will then require only a few minutes' heat- 
ing over a flame. In the winter they may be placed in a 
window where the sun will strike them ; or better still, on the 
back of a range or a heater. If an asbestos plate, such as is 
used with an ordinary gas stove, is placed over the radiators, 
they will heat more quickly. 



16 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Caloric steatite radiators are as good an absorbent of cold 
as they are of heat. When a radiator is cold it should be 
heated gradually until thoroughly warm and then it may be 
subjected to the most intense heat. 

Steatite is a natural product and contains seams which 
may open up when the radiators are heated. The radiators 
may also chip or flake. This does not affect their utility in 
any way whatsoever. On the contrary, a seam or crack will 
cause a radiator to heat up more readily, thereby lessening 
the expenditure for fuel. The Caloric guarantee does not 
cover the chipping or cracking of radiators. 

If they become greasy or soiled, they may easily be made 
as good as new by the use of sand paper or any scouring 
soap. 



CARE OF CALORIC UTENSILS 

The Caloric utensils are made of pure 
aluminum and, as is well known, this 
material will discolor under certain con- 
ditions. As a rule, hot water and pure 
soap will keep utensils in perfect condi- 
tion, but if these are not sufficient, the 
vessels may easily be cleaned with some 
good scouring soap. Water or food con- 

1^ t., « ., „ . taining alkali or iron will discolor the 
Double Boiler Made --jri- x-i a ^u 

:« 'r. c- mside of alummum utensils. Amonef the 

m Two Sizes - . , . , . „ ,. ** 

foods which contain alkali are potatoes, 

from which the skins have not been removed ; corn on the cob, 

etc., and these are quite sure to discolor the aluminum utensils. 




CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 17 

This discoloration is harmless and will have no effect 
upon the food. It does, however, mar the appearance of 
the aluminum and every good housekeeper likes to have her 
utensils bright and clean. If food or grease adheres to the 
aluminum surface it may easily be soaked loose by allowing 
hot water to stand in the vessel for several hours and scrap- 
ing with a wooden spoon; or if necessary, with very fine 
sand or powdered emery. 

BOILING, STEAMING AND STEWING 
Use of Ventilating Valve 

Steaming is the cooking of food over boiling water or in 
molds placed in a kettle of boiling water. 

Stewing is the cooking of food for a considerable time in 
water just below the boiling point. For stewing, the radiators 
need not be quite as hot as for boiling. 

The Caloric ventilating valve is self-regulating for steam- 
ing, stewing and boiling. 

For boiling, steaming or stewing, only one radiator is 
used. This should be heated and placed in the bottom of 
the compartment. The food, when prepared, should be 
placed, with the proper amount of boiling water, in one 
of the Caloric utensils and the cover clamped down. The 
cover to the Caloric compartment should then be quickly 
closed and fastened. 

The length of time food will keep hot in the Caloric de- 
pends largely on the bulk. When a kettle is two-thirds or 
more full the contents will often keep hot eighteen or twenty 
hours. Food will retain the heat at least ten hours. It is 
not absolutely necessary to use a radiator in boiling, steam- 
ing or stewing, but it is preferable, as better results are ob- 



18 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

taincd. If a radiator is not used, the food should be simply 
brought to the boiling point over a flame stove, the aluminum 
cover clamped down, the vessel removed directly to the 
Caloric and the lid closed and fastened. 

As there is practically no evaporation of water by escap- 
ing steam, care should be taken not to add too much water 
to foods which absorb water, like lima beans, rice, macaroni, 
etc. In boiling meats, allow only as much water as will be 
needed for the gravy. For green peas, add one tablespoon- 
ful of water to one pint of peas. With spinach, no water is 
needed except what clings to the leaves after rinsing. Onions 
and dried beans should be placed in cold water and brought to 
the boiling point on a flame stove or range ; then drained, and 
enough fresh water added to cover them. When hot, place 
in the Caloric. 

If a radiator is hot enough to sharply hiss when touched 
with a wet finger, it is hot enough for boiling. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 
ROASTING 



19 




Two steatite radiators are used for 
baking and roasting, one at the bottom 
of the oven, and one suspended in a 
rack in place of the regular cover of 
the large utensil. As liquids evapor- 
ate but little in the Caloric, none need 
be added to the roast. For this rea- 
son, no basting is required. The top 
radiator supplies the necessary heat for 
browning roasts. 

It requires only a little more time 
to roast in the Caloric than in an ordi- 
nary oven. For instance, a veal roast 
that would require three-quarters of 
Showing the Use of an hour in an ordinary oven will be 
Caloric Steatite roasted most satisfactorily in the Gal- 
Radiator. Qj.j^, jj^ Qj^g hour. It does not injure 
the roast, however, if it is permitted to remain longer in the 
Caloric. It will not bum or become dry or tasteless if left 
for twice or three times the period actually required for 
cooking. 

Season meat as desired and place, without heating or 
adding any water, in the Caloric kettle. If potatoes or other 
vegetables are desired with the meat, place them around it. 
When roasting, raised the cap of the ventilating valve slight- 
ly, allowing free escapement of steam. Radiators for roast- 
ing meat must be very hot. Test them by placing a small 
piece of paper on them; if the paper browns, they are suffi- 
ciently heated. 



20 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

BAKING 

Baking naturally requires more care- 
ful attention than roasting, but the 
results are most satisfactory and sur- 
prising. Practically everything can be 
baked in the Caloric — cakes, pastry, 
biscuits, bread, puddings, beans, pota- 
toes, apples and all kinds of fruit. A 
little attention at first, some practice, 
and success is assured. 

Two radiators are used in baking 
and these may be heated while prepar- 
ing the food for the oven. With two 
radiators sizzling hot it requires only 
about the same time to bake as would 
be necessary in an ordinary range oven 
with a moderate baking heat. A little 
experience will determine just the necessary time. One 
radiator is placed at the bottom and the other on top 
of the baking rack. Potatoes, or squash in the shell, may 
be put directly into the utensil, but pies, puddings, cakes, 
etc., should be placed in the ordinary baking tins and 
slipped into the racks. Anything too large for the bak- 
ing racks may be put into the regular Caloric utensil as 
directed for meat-roasting. For baking bread or cake the 
test for the radiators is to be able to count not more than 
thirty-five as rapidly as possible while the hand is held two 
inches above a radiator. In fifteen minutes, bread should 
have begun to brown. Pies require hotter radiators than 
bread or cake. ^ In order to give cake time to rise suffi- 
ciently before beginning to brown, it is well to leave the cover 




CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 21 

of the compartment closed but not locked for the first ten 
minutes. The hook of the clasp may be slipped under the 
cover. For the remainder of the time, close the cookstove as 
usual. In baking Irish potatoes it is necessary to raise the 
cap of the ventilating valve to allow the steam to escape. 
Sweet potatoes contain less water than Irish potatoes and 
less steam is formed in baking. 



SUGGESTIONS 

If dinner is to be served at night all the preliminary cook- 
ing may be done at noon, and the food placed in the Caloric 
and left until evening. 

Dried apf)les or prunes may be cooked in the Caloric 
over night. Previous to cooking they should be soaked in cold 
water several hours. Use the water in which they were 
soaked for the cooking. 

Sauerkraut will be more tender and better flavored if it 
is placed in the Caloric the day before it is intended to be 
eaten. 

Meats and poultry which are somewhat tough may be 
made tender by kaving them in the Caloric a greater length 
of time than would ordinarily be required. 

The Caloric is an excellent thing for a family whose 
members cannot all have meals at the same time. Part of the 
food may be taken out at the first meal-time and the re- 
mainder left in the cookstoves, where it will keep hot for hours. 



22 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 



The Caloric may also be used for keeping food cold. Ice 
cream can be kept from melting by placing it in the cook- 
stove. 

The Caloric makes possible great economy in the use of 
seasoning. Half, and indeed, sometimes a third or fourth part 
of what one would ordinarily use will be sufficient. In using 
the Caloric there is practically no evaporation — all the delicious 
and delicate flavors remain in the food. Therefore, care should 
be exercised in the use of seasoning. 

There is one Caloric ket- 
tle for each compartment oj 
the stove, but it is often con- 
venient to cook more than one 
thing at a time in a compart- 
ment. For this "purpose the 
Caloric Company manufactures 
triple-sided nesting utensils, 
three of which fit perfectly, side 
by side, in an eight or twelve- 
quart compartment of any of the Caloric stoves. By the use 
of these utensils three varieties of food may be cooked in one 
compartment at the same time. The company also makes 
double utensils, two of these fitting into one compartment. 
These special utensils are not supplied with the regular equip- 
ment of the stove but cost a slight amount extra. 




Triple Utensils 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 
CAUTION. 



23 



Usually, in boiling, steaming or stewing it is unnecesary 
to raise the oven or compartment cover until the food is cooked. 
If, however, the cover is opened during the boiling process, 
which process causes some steam pressure, care should be 
taken to avoid being scalded. This is not necessary if you use 
the ventilating valve according to directions. 




Brown Bread Baked in the Caloric 




Pleased and Satisfied with a Caloric 



PART II. 
Recipes. 




Model No. 41 



PART 11. 
SOUPS. 

The foundation of all soups is the juice or extract of meat, 
poultry, game, fish or vegetables. The bones of meat are espe- 
cially rich in nutriment that goes to make up a wholesome and 
palatable soup. The materials for soup cost but little and, 
by using the Caloric, the real expense of the dish — the long 
cooking over the fire — is done away with and it becomes one of 
the most economical as well as one of the most nutritious of 
foods. Meat should not be washed. Wipe it well with a piece 
of cheese-cloth wrung from cold water. Meat for soup should 
always be put on to cook in cold water, heated slowly, and not 
allowed to boil. 

Place soups in the Caloric to keep hot for a second helping 
or for late arivals. 

Stock — Cut six pounds of the shin of beef in small pieces. 
Add three quarts of cold water, six whole cloves, six pepper- 
corns and one bay leaf. Heat slowly and remove to the Caloric 
for six or eight hours, using one radiator. Strain through 
cheesecloth. When cold, remove every particle of fat. The 
stock will form a jelly and will keep for days in a cool place. 
By adding strained tomatoes or cooked vegetables, an excel- 
lent soup may be prepared on short notice. For a clear soup 
or bouillon, use equal quantities of stock and water, seasoning 
to taste. 

Asparagus Soup — Clean one pound of asparagus and cut 
in half-finger-long pieces. Melt one to one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of butter. When it commences to bubble, add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir and add one and one-half quarts 

27 



28 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

of stock. Into this put the asparagus and remove to the 
Caloric. When the soup is done, stir in the yolk of an egg, 
Serv)e with croutons. 

Bean Soup — One cupful of navy beans soaked in water 
over night. Drain, add one quart of boiling water, an even 
tablespoonful each of salt and sugar and one pound of pork 
loin. Place in the Caloric and cook three hours or longer, 
using one radiator. When done, press the beans through a 
colander, cut the meat in small pieces and brown in one table- 
spoonful of butter, to which one small onion has been added. 
Add one quart of milk and one-quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Mix all together and serve hot. 

Bouillon — Cut three pounds of lean beef into cubes. Add 
two quarts of cold water, half of a small onion, a bay leaf and 
a little celery. Cook in the Caloric five or six hours, using one 
radiator. When cold, remove the fat. Before using, drop in a 
little bag of cinnamon and cloves. Season with salt and pepper 
and color with a tablespoonful of caramel. Heat and serve. 

Chicken Soup — Save the liquor in which a chicken has been 
boiled. The following day, break the bones in pieces and place 
in a kettle with the liquor and any gravy, dressing or trim- 
mings that may have been left. Add four tablespoonfuls of 
rice and heat slowly to the boiling point. Place in the Caloric 
and cook four hours or more, using one radiator. Strain, sea- 
son with salt and pepper and serve. 

Cream Chicken Soup — To two quarts of chicken stock add 
one cupful of chopped mushrooms and one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Boil slowly fifteen minutes. Thicken with a 
little flour, season with salt, pepper and paprika, and, just be- 
fore serving, add slowly one cupfuX of rich cream. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 29 

Chicken Jelly or Broth — Clean a small chicken, disjoint 
and cut in small pieces. Remove the superfluous fat. Break 
the bones. Dip the feet into boiling water and scald them 
until the skin and nails drop off. The feet contain gelatine 
and when well cleaned may be used for the jelly. Cover the 
meat, feet and bones with cold water. When the boiling point 
is reached, remove to the Caloric and cook six hours, using 
one radiator. When cool, remove the fat. Season with sal^ 
pepper and lemon jucie. Add the shell and white of an egg. 
Put the broth over the fire and stir well until it reaches the 
boiling point. Skim and strain through a fine napkin. Pouf 
into small cups and cool, if intended for jelly. Serve hot, if 
intended for broth. 

Com Soui) — Chop or grind one can of corn and put it into 
a kettle with one quart of milk. Cook in the Caloric one hour, 
using one radiator. Fry one tablespoonful of chopped onion in 
three tablespoonfuls of butter. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and cook until smooth. Strain, and use to thicken the 
soup. Season with salt, pepper and paprika. Put in a double 
boiler to keep hot and, just before serving, add the yolks of 
two eggs well beaten. 

Cream of Celery Soup — Cut three or four heads of celery 
into small pieces and cover with cold water. Heat to the boil- 
ing point and cook in the Caloric two hours, using one radiator. 
Take from the kettle and drain. Blend two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and four tablespoonfuls of flour. Add three-fourths of 
a quart of cold milk and heat until it thickens, stirring con- 
stantly. Then add the celery water and, if a stronger flavor is 
desired, press the cooked celery through a sieve and add it 
to the soup. Season with salt and pepper. 



^30 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Green Pea Soup — Barely cover with boiling water two 
cupfuls of fresh shelled peas ; add two cupfuls of boiling milk 
and one tablespoonful of butter, blended with one of flour. Add 
salt and pepper. Cover and heat to the boiling point. Place 
in the Caloric, using one radiator and cook two hours or more. 
Then add two cupfuls of boiling milk. Strain through a sieve, 
add one cupful of cream and serve. 

Mutton Broth — Select the neck for broth. Cut in pieces 
and put into a kettle with two quarts of water. Place the kettle 
on the radiator while it is heating. When both are hot, add to 
the soup an onion, some tUrnip, celery, carrot, bay leaf and 
pepper. Place in the Caloric, tightly covered, and cook for four 
hours or more, using one radiator. Strain and season with salt 
and pepper. Barley or rice may be served with this soup by 
adding four tablespoonfuls of either, after first removing the 
scum. 

Puree du Barry — Chop six almonds fine. Add to them a 
pint of potatoes cut into small cubes, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped onion, two tablespoonfuls of mashed rice, one table- 
spoonful of parsley and one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 
Place the mixture in a Caloric kettle. Thicken with one table- 
spoonful of flour. When well mixed, add three quarts of stock. 
Boil five minutes. Clamp down the cover and cook in the 
Caloric two hours, using one radiator. Rub through a sieve. 
Reheat, add one teaspoonful of salt and two cupfuls of hot 
milk. 

Rice Soup — Heat to the boiling point two quarts of stock. 
Wash well one-half cupful of rice. Pour boiling water over it, 
drain and add to the stock. Cook in a covered kettle in the 
Caloric one hour, using one radiator. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 31 

Rice Soup with Green Peas — Cut a piece of bacon into 
small cubes and fry them in butter until light y.ellow. Add 
some chopped parsley and onion and cook for a few minutes. 
Then add one-half cupful of fresh green peas, one-half cupful 
of washed rice and one and one-half quarts of stock. Cook in 
a covered kettle in a Caloric one hour, using one (1) radiator. 

Rice Soup With Tomatoes — Stew six tomatoes with one 
sliced onion, in a very little water. Rub through a colander. 
Heat slightly two tablespoonfuls of butter and add the toma^ 
toes and one-half cupful of washed rice, stirring all the time. 
Then add one and one-half quarts of hot stock. Cook one hour 
in a covered kettle in the Caloric, using one radiator. 

Soup of Rice and Milk — Heat to the boiling point one and 
one-fourth quarts of milk. Add one-half cupful of rice, a piece 
of cinnamon bark, sugar to taste and a pinch of salt. Cook in 
a covered kettle in the Caloric one hour, using one radiator. If 
the soup is thick add a little more milk before serving. 

Spanish Soup — Melt one tablespoonful of butter. Add two 
pieces of bacon cut in cubes and fry until yellow. Add a few 
pinches of paprika and salt, one chopped onion, a little chopped 
parsley, one cupful of tomatoes (from which the skins and 
seeds have been removed), and some celery. Stir well and coc4c 
five minutes. Add one-half pound each of raw mutton and 
beef, cut into cubes. Half a chicken, cut in small pieces, may 
also be added. Add two quarts of hot water, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook in covered kettle in the Caloric two hours, using 
one radiator. 

Tomato Soup — ^To one can of tomatoes and a quart of beef 
stock add one-half cupful of rice. Season to taste with salt, 



32 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

pepper and sugar. Remove to the Caloric and cook one hour, 
using one radiator. 

Tomato Soup With Milk — One quart of tomatoes; one 
cupful of water. Cook until tender and strain through a 
colander. Add one-fourth of a level teaspoonful of soda and 
stir well. Pour in one quart of hot milk and season with 
butter, pepper and salt. Heat to the boiling point and serve. 

Turtle Soup — Thoroughly clean the turtle. Put it into a 
kettle and cover with cold water. Heat to the boiling point 
and skim. Into a small bag, put one tablespoonful of thyme, 
marjoram and sweet basil. Add this to the soup. Remove 
the kettle to the Caloric and cook five or six hours, using one 
radiator. When done, remove the meat from the bones and, 
when cold, cut in dice and return to the stock. Season with 
salt and pepper. Brown some flour in the oven, blend with 
butter and thicken the soup to the consistency of cream. 

Vegetable Soup — One cupful of chopped cabbage; two 
cupfuls of tomatoes ; three potatoes diced ; two or three stalks 
of celery ; one onion and one cupful of canned corn. Add one 
quart of stock and one pint of water, salt and pepper to taste 
and one level teaspoonful of sugar. Boil five minutes and re- 
move to the Caloric for two hours, using one radiator. If stock 
has not been prepared beforehand, two pounds of soup-meat 
may be cooked directly with the vegetables. Skim off the fat 
before serving. 

Vegetable Oyster Soup — This should be prepared the same 
as asparagus soup. 




Caloric Triple Utensils 



34 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

FISH 

Fish is a food that may easily be cooked over a blaze but 
it is most convenient, when one wishes to go out and find the 
meal ready on arriving home, to cook it in the Caloric. Fish 
docs not become soft, or fall to pieces by standing a consider- 
able length of time in the Caloric. 

Baked Fish — Thoroughly clean the fish and wipe it dry. 
Season with salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg and then in 
cracker crumbs. Melt one tablespoon ful of butter in a baking 
pan. Put in the fish with bits of butter on the top. Place in 
the utensil and bake in the Caloric forty-five minutes using two 
radiators. 

Boiled Fish — Roll the fish in cheese-cloth and tie the ends. 
Lower in a Caloric kettle of boiling water, to which has been 
added the juice of half a lemon and a little salt. Cook in the 
Caloric one-half hour, using one radiator. Drain and unroll 
from the cloth onto a platter. Garnish with parsley and slices 
of lemon, and serve with drawn butter sauce. 

Codfish Balls — Shred one cupful of codfish. Pare and cut 
into cubes three cupfuls of potatoes. Put the potatoes and cod- 
fish into a kettle, cover with boiling water and remove to the 
Caloric. Cook one-half hour. Drain well, mash and beat until 
very light. Add two teaspoonfuls of butter, one egg well 
beaten, one-fourth of a saltspoonful of pepper and salt if 
needed. Drop by tablespoonfuls into hot fat. 

Escalloped Oysters — Use crushed cracker crumbs, not too 
fine. Drain the liquor from one quart of oysters. Butter a 
deep dish and cover the bottom with crackers. Put in a layer 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 35 

of oysters, seasoned with butter, pepper and salt ; then a layer 
of crackers, then oysters ; season as before and so on until the 
dish is full. Finish with crackers covered with bits of butter. 
Pour over all three cupfuls of hot milk. Bake in the Caloric 
utensil one-half hour, using two radiators. 

Escalloped Oysters and Rice — One cupful of rice and one 
pint of oysters. Use the liquor from the oysters and add 
enough boiling water to make four cupfuls. Add the rice and 
boil one minute, then remove to the Caloric and cook three- 
quarters of an hour, using one radiator. To the cooked rice, 
add two well beaten eggs and a large tablespoonful of butter. 
Into a buttered pan put a layer of rice, a few small pieces of 
butter, a little salt and a dash of pepper. Then add a layer of 
the raw oysters and so on, until the dish is full. Cover with 
cracker crumbs, with small pieces of butter on the top and 
lastly, pour over the whole one cupful of hot milk. Bake one- 
half hour, using two radiators. 

Escalloped Salmon No. 1 — One can of salmon; one-half 
pound of coarsely rolled crackers. Put into a well buttered 
basin first, a layer of cracker crumbs, then a thin layer of 
flaked salmon. Season with salt, pepper and small pieces of 
butter and continue until all is used, having cracker crumbs 
on the top. Pour over all one pint of hot milk and bake in the 
Caloric thirty minutes, using two radiators. 

Escalloped Salmon No. 2 — Thicken one pint of milk with 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Season with salt, pepper and but- 
ter. Put into a baking pan alternate layers of the fish and 
dressing. Sprinkle toasted bread crumbs on top and bake in 
the Caloric one-half hour, using two radiators. 



36 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Salmon Loaf — One large can or salmon. Pour off the oil, 
remove bones and skin and flake the fish fine. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, two eggs well beaten and one-half 
cupful of bread crumbs. Mix all together and season with 
salt and pepper. Put in a well buttered tin and steam in the 
Caloric one hour. When done, turn the loaf out on a platter 
and pour over it a sauce made as follows: One teasptoonful 
each of flour and butter blended ; the oil from the salmon ; one 
cupful of milk and one egg well beaten. Season with salt and 
pepper and heat to the boiling point. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 37 

MEATS 

Meat, although one of the most important foods — and cer- 
tainly the most expensive — is too frequently ruined in the cook- 
ing. Often, all the rich, juicy nutriment is cooked out of it 
leaving the hard, leathery fiber. It should be borne in mind 
that the most expensive meats are not necessarily the most 
nutritious. If the right way of preparing the cheaper kinds is 
thoroughly understood and if the Caloric Cookstove is us-ed, it 
is possible to have a tender and juicy piece of meat at a com- 
paratively small cost. In boiling meat or vegetables for stews, 
etc., it should be remembered that in the Caloric the water does 
not boil away as it does on a range, and if too much water is 
used the dish will not be rich enough. Use little water and 
one or both radiators. The secret of making tough meats ten- 
der is the slow cooking, especially by braising, boiling and 
stewing. The toughest fowl may be reduced to toothsome ten- 
derness if steamed in a closed utensil for several hours. The 
Caloric is especially adapted to the cooking of meat in these 
various ways. All meats cooked in the Caloric will be found 
superior in every way to those cooked entirely on a flame stove. 
Meats should not be washed, but wiped with a piece of cheese- 
cloth wrung from cold water. 

In roasting meat do not add water. The steam from the 
cooking meat will be sufficient. When roasting, the cover 
of the utensil is not put on, as the top stone, resting on the 
rack, makes a cover. 



38 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

BEEF 

Austrian Filet — Cut off all the fat and skin from a piece 
of filet and pound it flat. After it has been rubbed with salt 
on both sides spread it out on a meat-board. Chop one-fourth 
pound of fat bacon and three or four boned sardines and mix 
with pepper, a pinch of ginger and several tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs. Spread this dressing evenly on the meat; roll 
it up and tie it. Heat a piece of butter or some drippings in a 
kettle, put in the meat and brown it on all sides. Add five or 
six tablespoonfuls of thick, sour cream and keep it a few min- 
utes longer over the fire. Cook in the Caloric, using two radia- 
tors. When done, pull out the strings, slice the meat and pour 
the strained gravy over it. 

Baked Hash — ^Two cupfuls of chopped corned beef and 
three cupfuls of potatoes. Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a 
baking pan, put in the hash, season with pepper and pour over 
it one cupful of sweet cream. Bake in the Caloric utensil thirty 
minutes, using two radiators. 

Beef a la Mode — Four to six pounds from the under part 
of the round, cut thick. Wipe and trim off the rough edges. 
Put the meat in a deep, earthen dish and pour over it spiced 
vinegar, made by boiling for five minutes one cupful of vine- 
gar, one onion chopped fine, three teaspoonfuls of salt and one- 
half teaspoonful each of mustard, pepper, cloves and allspice. 
Let the meat stand several hours, turning it often. Then lard 
It with ten or twelve strips of salt pork, cut one-third of an inch 
wide. Remove from the spice and brown in hot fat in which 
one onion and half of a carrot have been fried. Remove the 
beef to a Caloric kettle and add to the fat enough boiling water 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 39 

to nearly cover the meat. Put in a small bag of mixed herbs 
and cook in the Caloric five or six hours, using one radiator. 
When ready to serve, add more seasoning and thicken the 
gravy with flour. Boil the gravy five minutes, strain it over 
the meat and garnish with potato balls and small onions. 

Beef a la Venison — Rub lightly two and one-fourth pounds 
of the lower part of the round or loin with salt and put it into 
vinegar for three or four days. Take it out and drain it a little. 
Cut very fat bacon in thin threads about a finger long and, 
with a large needle, sew several rows through the meat. Pre- 
pare the following ingredients : Two large, sliced onions ; one 
small, yellow carrot; a piece of lemon peel; one bay leaf; 
twelve to fifteen peppercorns; a large pinch of sugar and sev- 
eral cloves. Heat a piece of butter in a kettle, put in the meat 
and brown it slightly. Then add a part of the vinegar in which 
the meat was put and the seasoning. Let the whole boil for 
fifteen minutes. Dissolve two or thr^e tablespoonfuls of flour 
in cold water and add this to the meat. Boil again for a 
moment. Place the kettle, tightly covered, in the Caloric and 
cook for two hours, using one radiator. 

Beef Loaf — ^Three pounds of beef; one-half pound of salt 
pork, chopped fine; three slices of stale bread, rolled fine; three 
eggs ; salt and pepper to taste ; one small onion ; one cupful of 
milk. Mix well and bake three hours in the Caloric, using two 
radiators. 

Beef Roulard — Cut one and one-half pounds of lean beef in 
five or six equally thick slices. Add salt, put one slice on top 
of another and let them stand for one-half hour. Make the 
following dressing : Chop one-fourth pound of bacon with two 
small onions and add a large pinch of white pepper. Divide 



40 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

it into five or six equal parts and spread each part on a slice 
of the meat. Roll up the slices and wind with thread. Turn 
the meat-rolls in flour until they are white all over. Put them 
into a kettle with hot butter and fry until they are yellow. 
Then add three tablespoonfuls of sour cream, the juice of half 
a lemon, a pinch of sugar and one-half cupful of stock. Let 
them smother in a covered kettle for ten minutes, after which, 
cook in the Caloric one and one-half hours, using one radiator. 

Beef Stew — Cold bits may be used for this or the round or 
any of the cheap cuts of beef. Cut all the fat from the meat 
and cut the lean into small pieces. Fry the fat in a kettle 
gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Then brown the meat, which 
has been seasoned well with salt and pepper. Cut a slice or 
two of onion, turnip or carrot and three or four potatoes into 
small pieces and add to the stew. Cook in the Caloric three 
hours or more, using one radiator. Remove from the Caloric 
to the fire and thicken the stew with one tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed to a paste in a little milk. 

Beef Tea — Remove all the fat from one pound of round 
steak. Cut in one-half inch cubes and put in glass fruit jars. 
Set in a Caloric kettle of cold water and heat gradually. When 
the water reaches the boiling point remove to the Caloric for 
five hours without using a radiator. Strain, heat over hot 
water and add a little salt. 

Boiled Beef — The brisket or a piece of the round is good 
for boiling. Put the suet and trimmings of the meat in a kettle 
and try out the fat. Then put in the meat and sear it quickly 
on all sides. Remove the cracklings from the fat and cover the 
meat with boiling water. Cover tightly and cook in the Caloric 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES ' 41 

three hours or more, using one radiator. Then remove to a hot 
platter, salt well, and garnish with cress or boiled cabbage. 
The liquor should be saved for stock or sauce. 

Boiled Tongue — Wash a fresh tongue weighing about 
three pounds and place it in a kettle or salted, boiling water. 
Remove to the Caloric and cook six or eight hours, using one 
radiator. Prepare it before retiring and let it remain in the 
Caloric over night. In the morning, remove from the liquor, 
peel oif the skin, press between plates and serve in slices. If 
the tongue is corned, it should be well soaked for several hours 
in cold water before boiling. 

Brown Beef Stew — Cut two pounds of beef into cubes of 
one inch. Roll them in two tablespoonfuls of flour. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of suet into a saucepan and shake it over the 
fire until it is well melted. Remove the cracklings and put in 
the meat. Shake until it is slightly brown. Draw the meat to 
one side of the pan and add two tablespoonfuls of flour to the 
fat. When smooth, add one quart of stock, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one onion, one bay leaf, one small carrot, one saltspoonful 
of pepper and one teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Put all 
together into a kettle and cook in the Caloric three hours, using 
using two radiators. 

Corned Beef — For cold corned beef the plate piece is the 
best; while, for a hot dish, the brisket is to be preferred. Al- 
ways have a good layer of fat around it. Place in cold water 
and heat slowly to the boiling point ; then drain the water off. 
Cover with fresh water and heat again to the boiling point. 
Clamp the cover down and cook in the Caloric six or eight 
hours, using one radiator. Cool in the stock; press between 
plates and serve in thin slices. 



42 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Filet Roast — Season a piece of filet with salt and pepper 
and let it stand for one hour. Heat some butter in a Caloric 
kettle and brown the meat in it on all sides. Remove to the 
cabinet for two hours, using two radiators. 

Goulash Stew — Cut a two-pound flank steak in small dice. 
Chop one onion and fry it in two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Brown the steak in the butter and cover it with cold water or 
stock. Season with salt, pepper or paprika and thicken with 
flour. Boil three minutes. Place, tightly covered, in the Caloric 
and cook three or four hours, using one radiator. 

Invalid's Broth — Remove the fat from one pound of the 
best part of round steak. Cut into dice and place in an alum- 
inum or porcelain-lined kettle. Cover with cold water and add 
one level teaspoonful of salt, Let is stand a few hours or over 
night. Put a radiator on the fire to heat and set the kettle 
containing the meat on this so that it will heat very slowly. 
Do not allow it to boil. When the radiator will faintly hiss 
when touched with a wet finger, it is hot enough. Cook in the 
Caloric two or three hours. 

Panned Steak — Two pounds of steak, cut thick. Place it 
in a deep, round pan. Pare eight small potatoes and arrange 
around the edge of the pan. To season, use three small, sliced 
carrots and two onions sliced thin, with salt and pepper to 
taste. Pour over this brown butter sauce enough to cover. 
Put the pan into the baking rack and cook in the Caloric at 
least one and one-half hours. 

Round steak cooked in this manner in the Caloric is just 
as delicious as the finest piece of sirloin steak cooked in the 
ordinary way. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 43 

Picklestcincr Meat from Beef Tenderloin — Cut two and 

one-fourth pounds of beef tenderloin in medium-sized cubes. 
Chop one-fifth of a pound of bacon, add a piece of butter cut 
into little pieces, ten or twelve pared, raw potatoes cut in cubes 
and prepare the following vegetables : A handful of parsley, a 
piece of garlic, one onion and two or three carrots. Cut all 
the vegetables fine. Melt a piece of butter in a kettle. Put in 
a layer of the potatoes, a layer of the mixed vegetables and 
a layer of meat. Sprinkle salt and paprika sparingly between 
the layers. Put bacon and butter on top of the potatoes. Con- 
tinue in this way until all is used. At last, add one cupful 
of water or stock. Put the kettle over a blaze and heat for 
five minutes. Close the kettle and cook in the Caloric forty- 
five minutes, using one radiator. 

Pot Roast — Rub two and one-half pounds of beef from the 
under part of the round with salt and sprinkle with pepper. 
Let it stand for thirty minutes to one hour. Melt one table- 
spoonful of butter in a Caloric kettle, put in the meat with some 
sliced carrot and a piece of bay leaf. Cook for ten or twelve 
minutes, occasionally turning the meat and adding a table- 
spoonful of water. Have ready one or two tablespoonfuls of 
flour dissolved in the necessary quantity of water. Add this to 
the meat and heat the whole to the boiling point. Put the 
cover on the kettle and cook in the Caloric three hours, using 
one radiator. 

Pot Roast With Potatoes — Sear a three-pound pot roast on 
all sides in a hot skillet. Sprinkle it with salt and pepper and 
put it into a Caloric utensil. Try out a piece of suet and while 
it is sizzling, pour in a large cupful of hot water. When it 
boils, pour it over the meat and remove the kettle at once to 
the Caloric, cooking two and one-half or three hours, using two 



44 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

radiators. One hour before serving, boil the potatoes on the 
stove for five minutes or long enough to heat them through. 
Lift the Caloric Hd and slip the potatoes, drained of the boiling 
water, into the broth at the side of the meat, allowing as little 
heat to escape as possible. A small onion may be added if 
desired. 

Ragout of Beef a la Creole — Cut two pounds of lean, coarse 
beef into dice, and fry five minues in hot drippings. Take 
up the meat and keep it hot while frying in the same fat, two 
minced onions, six small green peppers which have been 
parboiled and cooled before being minced, a teaspoonful of 
minced chives, three large potatoes, peeled and sliced, six 
chopped olives and a teaspoonful of minced, sweet herbs. 
Season with pepper and when the mixture has cooked five min- 
utes add a teaspoonful of vinegar. Remove with the meat to 
the Caloric for two hours. The meat should be in shreds. 

Rare Roast Beef — Melt a little butter in a Caloric kettle 
and sear the meat on all sides. Season to taste and remove to 
the Caloric using two radiators sizzling hot. Allow about 
seventeen minutes for each pound of meat. 

A dressing made of bread crumbs mixed with two beaten 
eggs, a teaspoonful of sage, a lump of butter and salt and pep- 
per to taste, makes an appetizing addition to a roast of beef. 
Moisten with water and place in the form of a loaf by the side 
of the beef. After removing the meat and dressing, thicken 
the gravy with a large tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth 
in water and boil slightly. 

Rolled Beefsteak — Use a steak, cut from the round, one- 
half inch thick. Remove the center bone and the surplus fat. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 45 

Over the steak spread a dressing made of one cupful of soft 
bread crumbs, one rounding tablespoonful of butter, melted, 
one level teaspoonful of poultry seasoning or sweet herbs, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt and one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 
Press this down firmly on the steak, then roll compactly and 
tie securely with twin^. Into a cast-iron skillet put one-fourth 
of a cupful of beef drippings or butter and place over the fire. 
When hot, put in the beef-roll. Turn it until it is a delicate 
brown. Remove to a Caloric kettle. Add to the fat remaining 
in the skillet one-fourth cupful of flour. When thoroughly 
blended, add one pint of boiling water. Season with salt and 
pepper. Put the kettle into the Caloric and cook for two or 
three hours, using two radiators. When done, remove the 
strings and serve. Add a little onion juice to the gravy and 
pour it over the roll. 

Steamed Filet Roast — Rub the meat with salt, sprinkle 
with pepper and let it stand for at least one hour. Heat some 
butter in a kettle and put in the meat and brown it. In 
turning the meat be careful not to prick it with a fork lest 
some juice escape. Add one small onion, sliced, and one tea- 
spoonful of capers. Dissolve one tablespoonful of flour in 
three tablespoonfuls of water. Pour it into the kettle and boil 
for a moment. Put the cover on the kettle and cook in the 
Caloric three hours, using one radiator. 

Steamed Rib Roast — Cut a roast in such pieces that a rib is 
attached to each piece. Rub all sides with salt and sprinkle 
with pepper. Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter or drippings 
in a kettle. Put the meat in, adding one large, thinly sliced 
onion. Brown the meat and the onion. In order to keep the 
onion soft, add one tablespoonful of water to which has been 



46 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

added a little beef extract. When the meat is brown, put the 
cover on the kettle and cook in the Caloric two hours, using one 
radiator. 

Stewed Beef with Ham — Season three pounds of beef (the 
filet is best) with salt and pepper. Let it stand for one-half 
hour. Melt and heat in a kettle two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Put the meat in it and add one-fourth of a pound of smoked 
ham cut in small slices, one large, sliced onion, a carrot, two or 
three cloves and one bay leaf. Turn the meat several times. 
Then add one-half cupful of stock and heat to the boiling 
point. Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of flour in water or stock 
to thicken. Cook in the Caloric two hours, using one radiator. 

Swedish Steak — Cut one and one-half pounds of round 
steak into serving pieces. Season with salt and pepper and" 
pound in as much flour as possible, using the edge of a plate. 
Fry brown on both sides in butter; then cover with boiling 
water. Remove to the Caloric for three hours, using one radi- 
ator. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 47 

VEAL 

Breaded Veal Chops — One and one-half pounds of veal 
chops rolled in cracker or bread crumbs and beaten Qgg and 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Melt one tablespoonful of but- 
ter in a shallow pan and put in the chops with small pieces of 
butter on each. Bake in the Caloric utensil forty-five minutes, 
using two radiators. 

Curry of Mutton or Veal — Fry one large onion, cut fine, 
in one heaping tablespoonful of butter. Mix one tablespoonful 
of curry, one teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of flour 
and stir into the butter and onion. Add, gradually, one pint of 
hot water or stock. Cut two pounds of lean mutton into small 
pieces and brown them in hot fat. Add them to the sauce. 
Cook in the Caloric four or five hours, using one radiator. 
Place the meat on a hot platter and arrange about it a border 
of boiled rice. 

Jellied Veal — Put a shank of veal into one quart of boiling 
water and cook in the Caloric three hours, using one radiator. 
When done, remove the bones and season the meat with salt, 
paprika and celery salt. Place over a flame and stir with a fork 
until the water is nearly absorbed. Turn into a dish and, when 
cold, cut into slices. 

Knuckle of Veal with Rice — Place a knuckle of veal in a 
Caloric kettle with four or five cupfuls of hot water. Cook in 
the Caloric three hours, using one radiator. About three-quart- 
ers of an hour before serving, add one cupful of well-washed 
two radiators. 

Larded Liver — Soak a calf s liver in warm, salted water 
for ten minutes. Then put it into a pan and sprinkle it with 



48 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

one teaspoonful of salt. Cut thin slices of bacon and lay them 
on the liver. Add one cupful of boiling water and cook in the 
Caloric two or three hours, using two radiators. 

Roast Leg of Veal — Rub the veal with salt, sprinkle with 
pepper and let it stand for half an hour. Heat in a kettle two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, into which put the meat. Cook in the 
Caloric two or three hours, using two radiators. 

Steamed Calf's Breast — Season two and one-half to three 
and one-fourth pounds of veal with salt and pepper and let it 
stand for half an hour. Roll it thickly in flour. Sear it in hot 
butter, in a kettle, until light yellow. Add one-half cupful of 
hot water. Place the kettle in the Caloric and cook two hours, 
using two radiators. 

Veal Birds— Cut one and one-half pounds of veal steak 
one-half inch thick in pieces four inches square. Spread with 
dressing made as follows: One cupful of bread crumbs; one 
slice of salt pork, chopped fine; salt, pepper, sage and a little 
chopped onion ; one ^gg and two tablespoonfuls of milk. Mix 
and spread on the meat. Roll up and pin together with tooth- 
picks. Roll the birds in flour and brown them in butter. Place 
in a baking dish and fill the dish two-thirds full of rich milk. 
Bake in the Caloric utensil two hours, using two radiators. 

Veal Croquettes — Cook three hours in the Caloric, two 
pounds of veal in enough boiling water to cover it. Use one 
radiator. Chop the veal fine and season highly with salt, pep- 
per, celery salt, paprika and lemon juice. Use one and one- 
half cupfuls of veal to one cupful of thick cream dressing. 
Shape in cylinders. When cool, roll in egg and bread crumbs 
and fry ia hot lard. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 49 

Veal Glace — Cook two pounds of veal in one pint of water 
after seasoning well with salt and pepper. Leave it in the 
Caloric two hours, using one radiator. When done, remove 
the veal from the bones and put it through a meat grinder. 
Add to the stock one grated onion and boil a few minutes on a 
flame stove. Strain. Soak one-half box of gelatine in one cup- 
ful of cold water. Pour the stock over the softened gelatine 
and add the juice of one lemon. When it begins to "jell," stir 
in the chopped veal. Place in a mold and set away to cool. 

Veal Goulash — Cut two and one-fourth pounds of veal in 
cubes and salt them. Heat some butter in a kettle, to which 
add two large, sliced onions. Cook these for a few minutes 
without browning them. Add the meat with one teaspoonful of 
paprika and stir well. Cook five minutes. Sprinkle a little flour 
over the meat and add several tablespoonfuls of water. Cook 
in a closed kettle in the Caloric forty-five minutes, using one 
radiator. 

Veal in Caper Gravy and Cream — Season two and one-half 
to three and one-fourth pounds of veal (shoulder piece or leg) 
with salt and pepper. Add one tablespoonful of capers. Dis- 
solve one tablespoonful of flour in one half cupful of thick 
sour cream and pour this on the meat. Set the kettle in the 
Caloric and cook two to three hours, using one radiator. 

Veal in Highly Seasoned Gravy — Divide two and one- 
fourth to three and one-fourth pounds of veal into four or five 
parts and season them with salt and pepper. Heat in a kettle 
one to one and one-half tablespoonfuls of butter or drippings 
in which sear the meat until it becomes yellow. Add several 
tablespoonfuls of sour or sweet cream, three finely chopped 
sardines, three tablespooonfuls of French mustard, one-half tea- 



so CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

spoonful of sugar and, if desired, a piece of lemon rind. Cover 
the kettle and cook ten minutes. Transfer to the Calojic for 
two hours, using one radiator. Serve with macaroni. 

Veal Loaf — Three pounds of veal, chopped fine. Add one 
cupful of rolled crackers, butter the size of an egg, three eggs, 
one cupful of milk, one large teaspoonful of salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper and one teaspoonful of sage. Mix all to- 
gether and form into a loaf. Bake three hours in the Caloric, 
using two radiators. This is good either hot or cold. 

This recipe may be varied by adding one-fourth pound of 
pork, chopped fine, or one and one-half pounds of raw ham, 
chopped. 

Veal Roast Larded — Rub the veal with salt, sprinkle with 
pepper and let it stand for half an hour. Then lard the meat 
with thin strips of fat bacon. Heat a piece of butter in a kettle, 
into which put the meat. Brown it on all sides. Dissolve a 
little flour in water. Add this to the meat and boil five min- 
utes. Cook in the Caloric three hours, using two radiators. 

Veal Pie — Boil in the Caloric two hours, using a little 
water, one and one-half pounds of veal seasoned with salt, pep- 
per and celery salt. Blend two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
two of flour. Add the liquor from the meat and one and one- 
half cupfuls of milk. Let it boil, cut up the meat, put all in a 
deep pan and cover with a rich biscuit dough. Place in the 
Caloric utensil and bake for one hour, using two radiators. 

Veal Roast — Season the back or breast of veal with salt 
and pepper. Let it stand for one hour. Cook in the Calosic 
one and one-half to two hours, using two radiators. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES .51 

Veal Roast with Sweet Cream Gravy — Rub a piece of veal 
with salt and season it with pepper. Heat a piece of butter in a 
kettle and fry in it several large slices of bacon. Lay the veal 
on top of these and cook it from eight to ten minutes, without 
turning, until the bacon becomes light yellow. Dissolve one 
tablespoonful of cornstarch in one cupful of sweet cream. Add 
this to the meat and cook five minutes. Place the kettle in the 
Caloric for one and one half to two hours, using two radiators. 

Veal Rolls — Use about a pound and a half of veal steak 
cut from the leg. It should be less than one-half inch thick and 
cut in pieces four inches square. Season with salt and pepper. 
Cut a sufficient quantity of salf pork in strips about the size 
of a little finger and wrap the veal around them. Fasten with a 
toothpick, roll in flour, and brown in butter. Add to the but- 
ter left in the pan, flour enough to thicken and about one pint 
of milk. Let it boil a moment and then pour it over the rolls, 
which have already been placed in one of the Caloric kettles. 
Cook in the Caloric for about two hours, using one radiator. 
Mushrooms may be added to the gravy when ready to serve. 

Veal with Parsley — Season the veal with salt and pepper. 
Melt a piece of butter in a kettle. Put the meat into it and 
turn it several times. Add one cupful of stock or boiling water 
containing meat extract. Then add one teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and one-half tablespoonful of flour dissolved in hot 
water. Boil a moment and cook in the Caloric one to one and 
one-half hours, using two radiators. 

Veal with Rice — Boil one-half cupful of rice in salted water 
until soft. This may be done the day before it is to be used. 
Cut one and one-fourth to three and one-fourth pounds of veal 
in cubes. Heat, in a kettle, two tablespoonfuls of butter. To 



52 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

this add the meat and a sliced onion. Cook until the meat 
is yellow. Add the rice thinned with six tablespoonfuls of wa- 
ter to which meat extract has been added. A little grated Par- 
mesan cheese may be added. Cook in a closed kettle in the 
Caloric forty-five minutes, using one radiator. 

Veal with Spaghetti— Cut in small pieces two pounds of 
veal and brown them in a little butter to which a sliced onion 
has been added. Add a tablespoonful each of salt and sugar, 
a teaspoonful each of paprika and celery salt, one can of 
tomatoes, two quarts of hot water and a one-pound package of 
spaghetti. Cook in the Caloric three hours, using one radiator. 

Veal with Tomatoes — Cut about three pounds of veal in 
several pieces and rub them with salt. Heat one or two table- 
spoonfuls of butter or drippings in a kettle. Put in the meat 
and turn it once. Add one onion, three or four tomatoes, one 
carrot and a piece of celery root, cut in dice. Also add three 
or four tablespoonfuls of sour cream and a little vinegar and 
cook five minutes. Place the closed kettle in the Caloric and 
cook one hour, using one radiator. Before serving, add one 
tablespoonful of flour dissolved in sour cream. 




Pie Baked in the Caloric 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 53 

LAMB AND MUTTON. 

Baked Lamb Chops — Season the chops with salt and pep- 
per. Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter and into this put the 
chops with bits of butter on top. Bake in the Caloric utensil 
fifteen or twenty minutes, using two radiators. 

Boiled Lambs* Tongues — Place six tongues in salted, hot 
water and add the juice of a lemon. Cook in the Caloric six or 
eight hours, usmg one radiator. Serve cold with tartar sauce. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb — Put the lamb into a kettle and cover 
it with boiling, salted water. Place in the Caloric, tightly- 
covered, and cook three hours, using one radiator. Mint or 
caper sauce should be served with the lamb. 

Braised Mutton Chops — Heat two tablespoonfuls of drip- 
pings in a frying pan and fry a slice or two of onion, celery, 
or carrot. Brown the chops quickly on both sides. Add two 
cupfuls of boiling water and cook in the Caloric one and one- 
half hours or more, using one radiator. Garnish with parsley. 

Braised Sheep's Tongues — Wash the tongues, dredge with 
flour and salt and brown in pork fat in which one or two 
minced onions have been fried. Put the tongues into a pan and 
cover them with water or stock. Add one sprig of parsley and 
a little salt and pepper. Cook in the Caloric four hours, using 
one radiator. Remove the skins and trim neatly at the roots. 
Arrange the tongues around a mound of spinach alternating 
with diamonds of fried bread 



54 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Irish Stew — Cut one and one-half pounds of mutton in 
small pieces and brown them in two tablespoonfuls of butter 
into which two onions have been sliced. Add to the meat one 
carrot, eight small potatoes, one stalk of celery and salt to 
taste. Cover with boiling water and cook in the Caloric four 
hours, using one radiator. 

Lamb Goulash — Cut two pounds of meat from the leg into 
cubes, season with salt and let them stand fifteen minutes. 
Sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of flour over the meat and shake it 
well. Cook two large, thinly sliced onions in one tablespoonful 
of butter until they are yellow. Add the meat with a half tea- 
spoonful of paprika and a little white pepper and cook a few 
minutes. Remove, in a tightly covered kettle, to the Caloric 
for one hour, using one radiator. Serve with mashed potatoes. 

Lamb m Light Gravy — Cut in pieces two pounds of lamb 
from the back and season with salt and pepper. Melt one table- 
spoonful of butter, add the meat and turn it once. Add one cup- 
ful of broth -made of water and meat extract. Mix two table- 
spoonfuls of flour with four tablespoonfuls of sour cream and 
add this slowly to the meat. It should boil a second. Cook in 
the Caloric, in a tightly closed kettle, one and one-fourth hours, 
using one radiator. 

Lamb with Dressing — Use the forequarter. Make a dress- 
ing as for veal or fowl. Part the meaty skin from the ribs, fill 
the space with dressing and sew up the opening. Before stuff- 
ing rub with salt and season with pepper. Brown the meat in 
butter, being careful not to burst open the side which contains 
the dressing. Cook in the Caloric three hours, using two radi- 
ators. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 55 

Leg of Lamb a la Venison — Cut off all the fat from a leg 
of lamb and season it with salt and pepper. Put it in vinegar 
to which has been added the following : Some pepper corns and 
cloves; two sliced onions; one carrot; one bay leaf; several 
slices of lemon and a little sugar. Leave the meat in this liquor 
for four or five days. When ready to use, drain the meat well, 
lard it thickly with bacon and brown it in butter. Add a small 
portion of the spiced vinegar, two large onions and a few jun- 
iper berries and capers. Cook the meat over a blaze for fifteen 
minutes adding, one at a time, five or six tablespoonfuls of sour 
cream. Disolve two tablespoonfuls of flour in some of the 
spiced vinegar and pour this slowly on the meat. Add a little 
more sugar, if desired. Cook in a tightly covered kettle in the 
Caloric two to four hours, using one radiator. 

Roast Leg of Lamb — Select the hindquarter and have the 
butcher remove the bone to the knuckle joint and skewer back 
the flesh. This makes the roast look better when served and 
allows it to fit into the Caloric kettle. Season the lamb with 
salt and pepper and brown it in butter or drippings. Lay the 
meat in a Caloric kettle; pare a few potatoes, sprinkle them 
with salt and lay them around the meat. Three hours is re- 
quired for a five pound roast, unless it is very young and ten- 
der. Use two radiators. 



56 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

PORK 

Breaded Pork Chops — One and one-half pounds of pork 
chops rolled in beaten egg and cracker crumbs and seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
pan and put in the chops with pieces of butter on the top. Bake 
in the Caloric utensil forty-five minutes, using two radiators. 

Ham with Cream Grravy — Remove all the skin and fat from 
a piece of ham. Season it with salt and pepper and let it stand 
in vinegar for twenty-four hours. Then brown it lightly in one 
and one-half tablespoonfuls of butter. Add a part of the vine- 
gar, a large, sliced onion, ten or twelve peppercorns, a carrot, 
a teaspoonful of capers, a little sugar and two and three-fourths 
tablespoonfuls of sour cream. Cook in the Caloric two hours, 
using two radiators. Thicken the gravy with one tablespoonful 
of sour cream. 

Pig's Feet — Singe the hocks and scrape and wash them 
thoroughly. Cover with cold water and heat to the boiling 
point. Cook in the Caloric four hours, using one radiator. Boil 
fifteen minutes one-half pint of vinegar, one small onion, one 
bay leaf and a few whole cloves. Add to the pig's feet when 
they are done and heat all together. 

Pork Roast — Season the meat with salt and pepper and 
place in a Caloric kettle without water. Cook from one and 
one-half to three hours, using two radiators. 

Pork Tenderloin Roast — Slit the tenderloin through the 
center lengthwise leaving both ends closed ; fill with oysters, 
season with butter, pepper and salt, sew up and bake in the 
Caloric one and one-half hours, using two radiators. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 57 

CHICKEN 

In roasting stuffed chicken, it is not necessary to heat or 
brown the chicken before placing it in the Caloric as the radia- 
tors brown it perfectly. 

Boiled Chicken — Wipe the chicken, singe and cut it for 
serving. Place it in a kettle with one cupful of salted, boiling 
water. Add a handful of rice and a cupful of milk and more 
salt if needed. Cook in the Caloric, in a tightly covered kettle, 
two hours, if the chicken is young; three or four hours, if older. 
Use one radiator. Serve with a gravy made from the liquor 
seasoned with chopped parsley, celery or thyme. Garnish 
with hard boiled eggs. 

Chicken Curry — Clean, singe and cut a three-pound chicken 
for serving. Put one-third cupful of butter in a hot frying pan. 
Add the chicken and let it brown. Chop the giblets and two 
small onions, add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of 
vinegar and one tablespoonful of curry powder. Add two cup- 
fuls of boiling water. Cook in the Caloric four hours, using 
one radiator. When ready to serve, remove the chicken and 
thicken the liquid with flour. Strain and pour over the chicken. 
Garnish with a border of rice. 

Chicken Pie — Pour over a chicken one cupful of boiling 
water and cook in the Caloric five or six hours. When done, 
remove the bones and cut the meat into small pieces. Add to 
the gravy one pint of milk and thicken with two tablespoonfuls 
of butter blended with the same quantity of flour. Season with 
salt and paprika. Cover with a rich biscuit crust and bake in 
the Caloric, using two radiators, hissing hot. 



58 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Chicken, Southern Style — Clean and singe two young 
chickens and cut them in pieces for serving. Season with salt 
and pepper and fry in butter. Remove the seeds from eight red 
peppers. Cover them with boiling water and cook them until 
soft. Mash and rub through a sieve. Add one teaspoonful of 
salt, one onion and two cloves of garlic, finely chopped. Add 
this to the chicken with three cupfuls of boiling water. Cook in 
the Caloric two hours or more, using one radiator. When ready 
to serve, remove the chicken and thicken the liquor with three 
tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour rubbed together. 

Creamed Chicken — One six-pound chicken and four sweet- 
breads. Cover them with boiling water and cook in the Caloric 
three hours, using one radiator. If the chicken is not young, 
leave it longer. Remove the meat from the bones and the skin 
from the sweetbreads. Cut into small cubes. Heat one quart 
of cream in a double boiler. In a small saucepan blend four 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and four tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Add this to the cream and when it thickens, season with 
salt, pepper, paprika and a little onion juice. Salt and pepper 
the meat and add it to the cream together with one can of 
mushrooms. Turn into a baking dish, cover with bread 
crumbs and bits of butter and bake in the Caloric half an 
hour, using two radiators. 

Cream Chicken Stew — Singe, clean and cut up a three- 
pound chicken. Add one cupful of boiling water. Cook in the 
Caloric two or three hours. Remove the chicken and add to 
the liquor one cupful of sweet cream. Season with salt, pepper 
and paprika and thicken with a little flour. Return the chicken 
to the gravy and cook in the Caloric one hour, using one radi- 
ator. When ready to serve, add a little chopped parsley. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 59 

Escalloped Chicken — One chicken boiled in the Caloric 
with very little water. When done, remove the bones and skin 
and flake the meat fine. Butter a deep baking pan, put in a 
layer of coarse cracker crumbs, then a layer of chicken with 
bits of butter and' a little pepper and salt ; then add cracker 
crumbs and so on until the dish is full, having crumbs for the 
top layer. Pour over the whole, one cupful of hot milk and 
add the liquor from the chicken. Bake in the Caloric utensil 
forty-five minutes, using two radiators. 

Fricasseed Chicken — Dress, clean and cut a chicken for 
serving. Roll the pieces in flour and salt. Cover with boiling 
water and cook three hours in the Caloric, in a tighly covered 
kettle. Make a gravy of the liquor by adding one tablespoonful 
of flour rubbed smooth in one-half cupful of milk. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste and serve with hot biscuit. 

Fried Fowl — -Singe and cut a fowl in small pieces. Place it 
in a kettle with one cupful of boiling water and a little salt. 
Remove to the Caloric and cook four or five hours or over 
night, using one radiator. Leave the fowl in the liquor until 
ready to serve, then brown it in butter and season it with salt 
and pepper. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Hungarian Chicken Goidach — Boil a chicken in the Caloric. 
When done, remove the bones and cut the meat into small 
bits or cubes. Put the chicken back into the liquor, add six 
tomatoes, six onions, salt, pepper, a little sugar and a table- 
spoonful of butter. Cook all in the Caloric one hour, using one 
radiator. Pour over buttered toast. 



60 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Pickled Chicken — Boil two chickens in the Caloric until 
tender enough to fall from the bones. Put the meat into a 
stone jar and pour over it one and one-half pints of cider vine- 
gar which has been mixed with half of the water in which the 
chickens were boiled. Add a few whole spices, if desired. 
This will be ready in two days and is good for luncheon or 
supper. 

Pressed Chicken — Cut up two chickens and cook them in a 
Caloric kettle, with very little water, until the meat drops from 
the bones. Remove the bones and skin and chop the meat 
coarsely. Return it to the liquor and season with salt and pep- 
per. Heat to the boiling point and turn into an oblong bread 
pan. When cold, this will turn out as jelly and may be sliced. 

Roast Chicken — Rub the inside and outside of the chicken 
with butter and salt and let it stand one-half hour to an hour. 
Fill with dressing and cook in the Caloric from one to three 
hours (depending upon the age of the chicken), using two radi- 
ators. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 61 

TURKEY 

An eight-pound turkey may be roasted in a twelve-quart 
Caloric utensil. 

Fricasseed Turkey — Cut the remains of cold roast turkey 
into slices. Place the bones and trimmings in a Caloric kettle 
with a bunch of savory herbs, an onion, a little lemon peel, 
pepper and salt and one pint of water. Cook in the Caloric two 
hours, using one radiator. Strain the liquor and lay the slices 
of turkey into it. When warmed through, heat the yolk of 
an egg and add two tablespoonfuls of cream. Add this slowly 
to the gravy and when it thickens the dish is ready to serve. 

Chestnut Dressing for Turkey — Boil a quart of chestnuts 
in the shells. Remove from the shells and blanch them. Mash 
them thoroughly and season with salt, pepper and melted but- 
ter. Fill the turkey and sew it up. 

Roast Turkey — Rub the turkey thoroughly with butter and 
salt and let it stand two hours. Fill with dressing and fasten 
the legs and wings to the body. Place strips of salt pork in the 
bottom of the roasting pan, lay the turkey on these and place 
more strips of pork across the breast. Roast in the Caloric two 
to three hours, according to the age of the turkey, using two 
radiators. 



62 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

GOOSE 

An eight-pound goose may be cooked in a twelve-quart 
Caloric utensil. 

Roast Goose — In dressing the goose remove the fat from 
the inside of the lower body. Parboil thirty minutes, remove 
from the kettle and stuff with moistened bread crumbs mixed 
with one e^gg, a little powdered sage, onion, pepper and salt. 
Roast in a Caloric kettle, without water, four hours, using two 
radiators. Serve with apple sauce. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 63 

GAME 

Fricasseed Venison — Melt and brown in a saucepan one 
tablespoonful of butter. Slowly add one tablespoonful of flour 
and stir until perfectly smooth. Add to this one tablespoonful 
each of chopped celery, onion and tomato and one pint of stock. 
Put in one pound of venison steak cut in narrow strips. Cook in 
a tightly covered Caloric kettle five or six hours, using one 
radiator. When ready to serve, season with salt, pepper, pap- 
rika and Worchestershire sauce. 

Partridge — Dress and wash the partridge ; rub it with salt 
and sprinkle it with pepper. Cook in the Caloric three-fourths 
of an hour, if young ; otherwise, one and one-half hours, using 
two radiators. 

Pigeons a la Venison — Rub the pigeons with salt and soak 
them for twenty-four hours in equal quantities of vinegar and 
water. Drain and tie slices of bacon around them. Then add 
a little of the vinegar and water in which they were soaked, 
one large, sliced onion and some carrot, bay leaf, lemon peel, 
peppercorns and a pinch of sugar. Blend some flour and sour 
cream and stir slowly into the boiling gravy. Cook in a tightly 
covered Caloric kettle one hour, using one radiator. 

Roast Pigeons — Rub three or four pigeons with salt. Tie 
a piece of bacon over the breast of each and cook in the Caloric 
one and one-half hours, using two radiators. 

Stuffed Roast Pigeons — ^Rub pigeons inside and outside 
with salt and let them stand for half an hour. The following 



64 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

filling is enough for two pigeons : Add one tablespoonful of but- 
ter to one tgg. Season with salt, nutmeg and finely chopped 
parsley, adding lemon peel, if desired. Add three or four table- 
spoonfuls of cracker crumbs and milk enough to make a soft 
dressing. The giblets, chopped fine, may also be added. Fill 
the pigeons and sew them up with twine. Cook in the Caloric 
one and three-fourths hours, using two radiators. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 65 

CALORIC SPECIALTIES 

Baked Onions — Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter and add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
one and one-fourth cupfuls of cream or chicken stock, four 
tablespoonfuls of soft bread crumbs and one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Boil five minutes, add one well-beaten egg 
and twelve medium-sized onions which have been previously 
parboiled. Cool slightly and add the beaten whites of two 
eggs. Bake in the Caloric twenty-five minutes, using two 
radiators. 

Boiled Calfs or Pig's Tongue^ — Put the thoroughly cleansed 
tongue into boiling water with salt and vegetables for 
seasoning. Cook in a tightly covered kettle in the Caloric 
one and one-half hours, using one radiator. 

Boiled Dinner — Cover three pounds of corned beef or ham 
with cold water. Boil slowly for twenty minutes ; then add a 
small head of cabbage, a few carrots, turnips and potatoes. 
Cook in the Caloric four hours or more, using one radiator. 

Boiled Ham — Cover a ham with cold water and heat it to 
the boiling point. Add a wineglassful of sherry and cook in 
the Caloric four to six hours, according to the size of the ham, 
using one radiator. Take from the water, cut off to rind, press 
whole cloves into the fat and bake one-half hour. It may be 
served without baking. 

Boiled Mutton with Potatoes — ^Two and one-half pounds 
of mutton from the shoulder or leg. Remove all bone slivers 
and add two pints of boiling, salted water, some chopped car- 
rot, celery, onion, a pinch of pepper and eight or ten raw pota- 
toes, sliced. Cook in the Caloric one and one-half to one and 



66 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

three-fourths hours, using one radiator. Before serving, take 
out the meat and cut it into slices. 

Chicken with Asparagus — Cut a young chicken into six or 
eight parts and season with salt and pepper. Melt one table- 
spoonful of butter and cook it until it commences to bubble. 
Drop the meat into this, turn the pieces once and add one-half 
cupful of stock. When it boils, add the tips of one pound of 
asparagus. Cover the kettle tightly and cook in the Caloric 
two hours, using one radiator. Before serving, add a little flour 
mixed with sweet milk. Set the kettle over a flame and heat to 
the boiling point. 

Fowl with Vermicelli — Divide a fowl into three or four 
parts. Heat to the boiling point one and one-half quarts of 
water into which put the meat together with some salt, pepper, 
chopped onions, parsley and one-fourth pound of vermicelli. 
Cook in a Caloric kettle, tightly covered, three hours, using one 
radiator. 

German Household Fare — Make a noodle dough of three 
eggs and the necessary flour. Divide it into three or four parts 
and roll out each part moderately thin. When the dough is 
dried off, cut it into strips a finger broad. Cut one pound of 
beef filet or one pound of lean, tender pork into cubes. Chop 
coarsely two or three parsley roots, a few yellow carrots and 
one medium-sized onion. Cut about two ounces of bacon into 
cubes and some butter into tiny pieces. Cook the noodles in 
boiling, salted water ten minutes. Drain off the water and let 
them cool. Grease a kettle with butter and put in a layer of 
meat, then a layer of vegetables, a layer of noodles, etc., until 
all is used. Sprinkle each layer with salt and paprika, and add 
a few cubes of bacon and pieces of butter to each. Pour one- 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 67 

half cupful of water over the whole and boil five minutes. 
Cook in a covered kettle in the Caloric one and one-half 
hours, using one radiator. Before serving, stir carefully. 

Meat Dumplings with Beans — Chop one-half pound each 
of beef and pork. Blend well together one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one egg, a sliced onion, cooked soft in butter, salt and 
pepper and one cup of bread crumbs. Add the meat to this 
mixture. Cut one and one-half pounds of string beans into 
small pieces. Heat in a kettle two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
add the beans, together with a little salt and summer savory. 
Cook a few minutes, stirring constantly. Add some stock and 
a little vinegar. Sprinkle two or three tablespoonfuls of flour 
over the beans and push them into the center of the kettle. 
Form dumplings of the first mixture and lay them around the 
beans. Boil five minutes. Cook in the Caloric two hours, using 
one radiator. In serving, arrange the dumplings around the 
beans on a platter. 

Mutton with Onions and Potatoes — Season three pounds of 
mutton chops with salt and pepper. Brown them in one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of butter. Add one large onion, sliced, 
and cook until the onion is yellow. Cut into cubes eight or ten 
raw potatoes and add them to the meat. Mix well and, lastly, 
add two tablespoonfuls of water. Cook five minutes and remove 
to the Caloric for one and one-half hours, using two radiators. 

Roast Chicken with Asparagus — Clean eight or ten stalks 
of asparagus and boil them in salted water fifteen minutes. 
Drain. Heat one tablespoonful of butter in a kettle and brown 
the chicken in it on all sides. Sprinkle a little water into the 
ketttle from time to time to prevent the butter from burning. 
Lay the asparagus beside the chicken and bake in the Caloric 
two hours, using one radiator. 



68 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Stuffed Peppers — Cut the tops from eight or ten green 
peppers, remove the seeds, cover w^ith boiling water and let 
them stand five minutes. Fill with tomato dressing, cover 
with bread crumbs and bake in the Caloric three-fourths of an 
hour, using two radiators. 

Tomato Dressing — Mix one cupful of tomato pulp drained 
from the juice with one-half cupful of bread crumbs, one-half 
cupful of stock and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Season with 
salt, paprika and onion juice. 

Veal Goulash with Potatoes — Use the recipe for veal gou- 
lash to be found on page 51 and add eight or ten raw potatoes 
cut up in small pieces. Stir well and cook in the Caloric one 
and one-fourth hours, using two radiators. 

Veal with Green Peas and Dumplings — Mix one table- 
spoonful of butter, two eggs, a little salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of i;nilk and bread crumbs enough to make a smooth paste. 
Season two pounds of veal with salt and pepper. Heat one 
tablespoonful of butter in a kettle, add the meat, turn it once, 
and pour on one cupful of stock. Stir three tablespoonfuls of 
flour smooth in water, add this slowly to the liquid and heat to 
the boiling point. Shape small, round dumplings of the paste 
and put them into the boiling liquid. Sprinkle one-half cup- 
ful of green peas over the dumplings and cook, in a covered 
kettle, in the Caloric one and one-fourth hours, using one radi- 
ator. 

Veal with Noodles — Make a dough of one egg, a pinch 
of salt and the necessary flour. Roll it thin. After it is 
dry, cut it into strips as fine as possible. Season two or three 
pounds of veal with salt. Heat, in a kettle, one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Fry the meat in this until yellow, 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 69 

turning it several times. Add two or three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, one teaspoonful of capers and a pinch of pepper and 
sugar. Thicken with flour stirred into cold water. Place the 
noodles on top of the meat and cook, in a covered kettle, in 
the Caloric one and one-fourth hours, using one radiator. 

Veal with Onions and Potatoes — Season with salt two 
pounds of veal from the leg. Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in which cook two large, thinly sliced onions and one-half tea- 
spoonful of paprika. The onions must remain light-colored 
and soft. Add two tablespoonfuls of thick, sweet cream, eight 
or ten raw. potatoes cut into cubes and a little salt. Cook in 
the Caloric two hours, using two radiators. 

Veal with Vegetable Oyster — Cook one pound of vege- 
table oysters in salted water and set them aside. Melt two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add two pounds of veal and one 
cupful of water or stock thickened with two and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Then put in the vegetable oysters 
and cook in the Caloric two hours, using two radiators. 




Chicken Roasted in a Caloric 



70 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 

Roast beef — Grated horse radish ; tomato catsup. 
Boiled mutton — Caper sauce. 
Roast mutton — Stewed gooseberry sauce. 
Roast lamb — Mint sauce. 
Roast pork — ^Apple sauce. 
Roast turkey — Cranberry sauce ; celery sauce. 
Roast chicken — Plum or grape sauce ; catsup ; celery sauce. 
Boiled venison or duck — Black currant jelly. 
Broiled steak — Mushrooms ; fried onions. 
Roast goose — Stewed gooseberries; apple sauce. 
Broiled mackerel — Stewed gooseberries. 
Fried salmon — Egg sauce ; stewed tomatoes. 
Boiled or baked cod — Egg sauce ; tomato sauce. 
Other fish, boiled or baked — White Sauce, Old Zealand 
sauce; drawn butter sauce. 

Caper Sauce — Two tablespoonfuls of butter; three table- 
spoonfuls of flour; one-fourth teaspoonful each of salt and 
paprika and one-half teaspoonful of onion juice. When these 
are blended, add one and one-half cupfuls of boiling water, 
one tablespoonful of butter cut into bits, one tablespoonful of 
parsley and four tablespoonfuls of capers. 

Drawn Butter Sauce — Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter 
and blend with it three tablespoonfuls of flour ; add slowly one 
and one-half cupfuls of hot water and stir until it boils. Season 
with one-half teaspoonful of salt. Serve with fish or lobster. 

Egg Sauce for Fish — Melt in a saucepan one heaping table- 
spoonful of butter. Blend with this one tablespoonful of flour. 
Then add, gradually, one cupful of boiling water. Cook, stir- 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 71 

ring briskly until sufficiently thick. Add salt, pepper and pap- 
rika to taste. When ready to serve, cut into the sauce one 
hard boiled egg. 

Mint Jelly — Mint jelly is often served with roast lamb in 
place of mint sauce. 

Break enough leaves of tender mint to make one cupful 
when pressed down ; cut or chop them and cover them with a 
pint of boiling water. Steep for one-half hour in the Caloric. 
Then strain, pressing hard. Soak a half package of gelatine in 
one-half cupful of cold water and dissolve it over hot water. 
Add to the mint-water one tablespoonful of powdered sugar 
and three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or vinegar. Tint 
slightly with green coloring, pour into wet molds and place on 
ice until it is firm. 

Mushroom Sauce — Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir in slowly three-fourths 
cupful of milk and one-fourth cupful of mushroom liquor. 
Season with salt, pepper and paprika and add one-fourth 
cupful of chopped mushrooms. Serve with steak. 

Tomato Sauce — Cook fifteen minutes, one-half pint of 
stewed and strained tomatoes, one onion, one bay leaf and a 
little parsley. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and, when bubbling, add the tomatoes 
slowly. Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt, a speck of 
pepper, a little paprika and one teaspoonful of sugar. Cook 
until smooth. 

White Sauce — Blend two tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Pour on slowly, one pint of cold milk 
and stir vigorously until thick and perfectly smooth. Season 
with salt, pepper and paprika. 



72 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

VEGETABLES 

The Caloric is particularly adapted to the cooking of any 
and all kinds of vegetables. Much less water is required than 
when the cooking is done on an ordinary stove or range. Only 
one radiator should be used. A little experience will determine 
the exact time required for each vegetable. In baking vegeta- 
bles such as potatoes, apples, etc., both radiators are necessary. 
Potatoes of ordinary size require from three-fourths of an hour 
to an hour in the Caloric. But, at first, until one has become 
thoroughly familiar with the use of the Caloric it is advisable 
to make the time longer rather than shorter. No matter how 
much longer they are left in the Caloric they will not be 
burned. 

Wilted vegetables should be freshened in cold water before 
cooking. I 

Dried vegetables should be soaked in cold water several 
hours or over night, before cooking. 

Starch is the chief component of most vegetables, though 
protein, sugar, fat, mineral matter and water (one or all) are 
combined with the starch. In some vegetables the starch is 
largely in the form of cellulose or woody tissue, but, in what- 
ever form it may be found, the starch must be thoroughly 
cooked in order to be wholesome. 

Vegetables like lettuce, endive, celery (the inner blanched 
stalks) tomatoes, cucumbers and small, quickly grown radishes 
contain but a slight trace of starch. They are composed largely 
of water and mineral salts, both of which will be lost during 
the cooking process unless they are gently simmered. When 
these vegetables are cooked, no more water should be added 
than can be served with them. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 73 

Green peas and asparagus contain so much starch that 
cooking is a necessity. To retain the sugar and other com- 
pounds, the cooking should be done in the Caloric where 
there is no violent boiling as on a flame stove. 

Parsnips, salsify, carrots and turnips contain but little 
starch other than that found in their cellular structure. This 
fibre, like animal fibre, is hardened by intense heat and should 
not be cooked at a temperature higher than the boiling point 
of water. The cooking should be prolonged until the fibre 
is tender but no longer. 

Potatoes, breakfast cereals, rice, samp, macaroni, noodles 
and other pastes used as vegetables are rich in starch. A good 
potato, properly cooked, will be mealy. A potato cooked in 
simmering water, will be water soaked and soggy. If potatoes 
are cooked in furiously boiling water the ouside becomes 
softened and washed away while the inside remains hard. 

Hard water has a tendency to harden cellulose or woody 
fibre and thus keeps the juices within the food. Soft water 
acts in the opposite way. Salt added to water makes it hard, 
raises the boiling point a little and intensifies the color of 
green vegetables. Soda softens water and causes green veg- 
etables to assume a faded look. As the appearance of food 
has much to do with our taste for it, the use of salt in the cook- 
ing of green vegetables is advisable. As green vegetables con- 
tain little woody tissue but often sugar, which it is advisable 
to retain in the foods, the cooking of these in salted water 
is to be recommended. In general, salt should be added to the 
water in which all vegetables, except those containing much 
cellulose, are to be cooked. A teaspoonful of salt to each gen- 
erous quart of water should be used. Soft water is preferable 
when the cellulose structure of dried peas, beans and lentils 



74 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

is to be made tender. If such water is not available, one-half 
teaspoonful of bicarbonate oi soda to each quart of water will 
accomplish the desired result. 

Asparagus — Cut off the tough ends. Put the asparagus 
into a very little boiling water and add one teaspoonful of salt 
and one-half teaspoonful of sugar. Cook in the Caloric three- 
fourth of an hour. Drain off the water, cover with milk, sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper and reheat before serving. 

Baked Beans — Wash and pick over one quart of white 
beans. Soak them over night. In the morning drain off the 
water, cover with boiling water and add a pinch of soda. 
Cook in the Caloric one hour, using one radiator. Remove 
and drain well. Put them into a baking pan with three-fourths 
of a pound of salt pork. Put three tablespoonfuls of molasses, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt and one teaspoonful of mustard into a 
cup. Fill cup with cold water and pour the mixture over 
the beans. Bake in the Caloric utensil from four to six hours, 
using two radiators. 

Baked Hubbard Squash — ^Wash the squash thoroughly. 
Cut it in halves or quarters and rub the inside well with sugar. 
Place the pieces in a lareg kettle and bake two hours, using 
two radiators. Serve in the shell or scrape the squash out 
and fry it in butter. 

Boiled Cauliflower — Remove the outer leaves and cut off 
the stem close to the head. Wash the cauliflower thoroughly 
in cold water. Then soak it in cold, salted water, top down- 
ward, for one hour, allowing one tablespoonful of salt to one 
gtillon of water. Put the cauliflower into a kettle of boiling 
water, salt slightly, cover closely and cook in the Caloric. 
Serve with cream sauce. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 75 

Boiled Potatoes — Pare the potatoes, if they are large, 
cut them in quarters. Cover them with boiling water and al- 
low them to stand for about five minutes. Then drain off 
every drop of the water and cook in the Caloric twenty-five 
to thirty five minutes. 

Beets — Wash the beets but do not cut them. Cover with 
boiling water and cook in the Caloric two hours or more. Peel 
them or place them in cold water for a minute and slip the skins 
off. Cut in slices and serve plain or with a sauce made of two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, four tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or 
vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Heat 
the sauce to the boiling point and pour it on the beets just be- 
fore serving. 

Cabbage with Cream Dressing — Remove the outside leaves 
of a head of cabbage. Quarter the head and wash the sections. 
No more water is required in the cooking than that which re- 
mains on the leaves after washing. Cook in the Caloric one 
hour. Drain and serve with a sauce made by blending one 
tablespoonful of flour with one of butter and adding one cupful 
of sweet cream. Heat the sauce to the boiling point and sea- 
son to taste. 

Carrots — Scrape the carrots and cut them in small cubes. 
Allow one tablespoonful of water to one quart of carrots. Sea- 
son with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and cook in the Caloric 
one-half hour. Serve with cream sauce. 

Com on the Cob — Select full, tender ears of sweetcorn. 
Remove the husks and the silk and cook in the Caloric in a very 
little boiling water to which has been added a tablespoonful 



76 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

each of salt and sugar. Let the corn remain in the Caloric one- 
half hour. 

Escalloped Potatoes, No. 1 — Peel and slice one quart of 
raw potatoes. Place a layer of potatoes in a baking dish, add 
small pieces of butter, salt and pepper and a little onion. Re- 
peat until the required quantity is prepared. Put a layer of 
bread crumbs, on the top and pour over all one pint of milk. 
Bake in the Caloric utensil two and one-half hours, using two 
radiators. 

Escalloped Potatoes No. 2 — Slice cold boiled potatoes into 
a basin, season well and pour over them a dressing made by 
thickening one pint of milk. Bake in the Caloric utensil one 
half hour, using two radiators. 

Escalloped Tomatoes — Peel and slice six large tomatoes. 
Put a layer of bread crumbs in the bottom of a buttered dish ; 
then a layer of tomatoes seasoned with salt, pepper, butter and 
a little sugar and continue thus until the dish is full, finishing 
with bread crumbs. Bake in the Caloric utensil forty-five min- 
utes, using two radiators. 

French Macaroni — Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a 
frying pan, add one cupful of macaroni, previously boiled in 
the Caloric, and one cupful of grated cheese. Cook until the 
cheese is melted, then add two well-beaten eggs and season 
with salt, pepper and paprika. When smooth, serve at once on 
hot toast. 

Green Peas^— Shell, add a very little salted water and cook 
in the Caloric one-half hour. One cupful of water is sufficient 
for three pints of shelled peas. Cover with a sauce made of 
cream or milk and butter slightly thickened with flour. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES • 11 

Hungarian Stewed Potatoes — Cut twelve to fifteen med- 
ium sized potatoes in small cubes. Heat two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and put the potatoes into it. Add salt, one-half tea- 
spoonful of paprika and one large, finely cut onion. Stir and 
add enough stock to cover. Cook in a covered kettle in the 
Caloric one hour. 

Macaroni with Cheese — Cook the same as for plain macar- 
oni. Place a layer in a pudding dish, cover with a layer of 
white sauce and one of grated cheese. Repeat until the dish 
is filled. Put a layer of bread crumbs on the top, dot with bits 
of butter and bake in the Caloric two hours, using two radia- 
tors. 

Macaroni with Tomatoes — Place a layer of sliced tomatoes 
in a buttered dish, then a layer of macaroni, previously cooked 
in the Caloric. Season with salt, pepper and butter and repeat 
until the required amount is prepared. Place a layer of 
cracker crumbs on the top, dot with bits of butter and bake in 
the Caloric, using two radiators. A large, green pepper, 
chopped, may be added to the tomatoes. 

Mashed Potatoes with Apples — Pare and cut up equal 
parts of potatoes and cored apples. Put the apples and pota- 
toes into boiling water for five minutes. Then drain them and 
cook them in the Caloric one-half hour, using one radiator. 
When done, mash the potatoes and apples and stir in a few 
tablespoonfuls of hot butter and one-half teaspoonful of salt. 
Put the kettle back into the Caloric to reheat. Serve with 
well spiced meats. 

Minnesota Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce — Break half a 
package of Minnesota spaghetti into boiling water and cook 



78 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

for thirty minutes or until it is tender. Strain and cover with 
cold water while the tomato sauce is being prepared. One can 
of tomatoes ; ten whole allspice ; six whole peppers and a pinch 
of baking soda. A few stalks of celery may also be added. 
Heat to the boiling point and cook in the Caloric. Strain 
through a cheese-cloth and thicken with a tablespoonful of 
flour dissolved in cold water. Add butter the size of an egg, 
season with salt and red pepper and boil five minutes longer. 
When the sauce is ready, brown some butter in a frying pan, 
add the spaghetti, pour on the tomato sauce and serve hot. 
Grated cheese may be sprinkled over it, if desired. 

Onions — Cover the onions with boiling water and allow 
them to boil five minutes. Drain them, add fresh hot water 
and heat to the boihng point. Cook in the Caloric one hour. 
When ready to serve, drain and cover with hot milk seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter. 

Plain Macaroni — Boil in the Caloric, forty minutes, one- 
half pound of broken macaroni in water with one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Drain. Thicken two cupfuls of milk with 
flour and season with butter, pepper, salt and paprika. Pour 
this over the macaroni and bake in the Caloric two and one-half 
hours, using two radiators. 

Potatoes in Butter — Pare ten or twelve potatoes and cut 
them into dice or slices. Brown a piece of butter in a basin 
and put the potatoes into it. Add salt and cook the potatoes 
five minutes, turning them often. Place the basin in the 
Caloric rack and bake thirty minutes, using two radiators. 

Potatoes with Fried Sausage — Pare and slice the potatoes 
and fry the sausages quickly. Heat some butter and put a layer 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 79 

of potatoes into it. Then add some of the fried sausages and 
repeat, using potatoes on the top. Add butter to each layer 
and season each with salt and pepper. Cook in a covered kettle 
in the Caloric one and one-fourth to one and one-half hours. 
Serve with sauerkraut. 

Potatoes with Ham — Prepare the potatoes as in the recipe 
for potatoes with parsley, using small pieces of smoked ham 
instead of fried sausage. 

Potatoes with Parsley — Pare ten or twelve large potatoes. 
Slice them thickly and divide the slices into long, narrow 
pieces. Heat one and one-half tablespoonfuls of butter. Add 
the potatoes with salt and one tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley. Stir the potatoes and cook them for a few minutes. Then 
remove, in a covered kettle, to the Caloric and cook forty-five 
minutes. 

Potato Stew — Fry three slices of lean and fat salt pork in 
a kettle. Add a sliced onion and when it browns add one quart 
of potatoes thickly sliced and enough boiling water to cover 
them. Cook in the Caloric two hours. When ready to serve, 
season with butter, pepper, paprika and one cupful of cream. 
Set over a flame for a few minutes to reheat. 

Sauerkraut — One quart of sauerkraut and two pounds of 
fresh pork. Cut the pork in slices and mix with the sauer- 
kraut in a Caloric kettle. Cover with boiling water and 
boil ten minutes. Remove, in a covered kettle, to the Caloric 
for six or eight hours, using one radiator. A little salt should 
be added, before cooking, if needed. Drain, and serve on a 
hot platter. 



80 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Sliced Potatoes with Bacon — Pare the potatoes and cut 
them into slices. Fry a piece of bacon in a little lard until it 
is light yellow. Add the potatoes with a little salt and fry 
them for a few minutes, without turning them. Cook in a 
covered kettle in the Caloric one hour. 

Stewed Piunpkin — Wash and cut up the pumpkin without 
paring it. Place it in a Caloric kettle without adding any 
water. Cook two hours, using two radiators. When done, 
press through a colander. 

Stewed Tomatoes — Use an enameled vessel for tomatoes. 
To one quart of tomatoes add a piece of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar and pepper to taste. One-half cupful of croutons 
may be added. Cook in the Caloric three-fourths of an hour. 

String Beans No. 1 — Snap the beans into small pieces. 
Unless they are very fresh they should be soaked in ice water 
one hour before cooking. Cover the beans with hot water and 
when the boiling point is reached, pour off the water and add 
one cupful of freshly boiling water. Cover the kettle and cook 
in the Caloric. Drain off the water and add cream, or butter 
and milk and pepper. 

String Beans No. 2 — String and break fresh green beans. 
Add a little boiling water, enough salt pork or bacon to season 
them well and add salt, pepper and a bit of sugar. Cook in the 
Caloric one-half hour. When ready to serve, thicken slightly 
with flour rubbed smooth in cold water. 

Stuffed Tomatoes — Cut circular pieces from the tops of 
large and firm tomatoes. Scrape out all the soft parts and 
mix with stale bread crumbs, onion, parsley, butter, pepper 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 81 

and salt. Chop very fine and fill the tomatoes. Melt one 
tablespoonful of butter in a baking pan, put in the tomatoes 
and bake in the Caloric utensil forty-five minutes, using two 
radiators. 

Succotash — Cut the corn from six ears, add one pint of 
green, lima beans, previously cooked in the Caloric, a large 
piece of butter and season with salt and pepper. Add one-half 
pint of hot, sweet milk. Cook in the Caloric thirty minutes. 

Summer Squash — Cut the squash in small pieces and cover 
with boiling water. Let it stand five minutes and then pour 
off the water. Cook in the Caloric one-half hour. Drain, mash 
and season with butter, salt and pepper. 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern Style — Cut cold boiled sweet po- 
tatoes into slices one-fourth of an inch thick. Place the slices 
in a well buttered baking pan, dot each slice with butter and 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake in the Caloric utensil thirty min- 
utes, using two radiators. 

Vegetable Oysters — Scrape clean two pounds of vegetable 
oysters and put them immediately into water, so that they will 
remain white. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter and add 
three or four tablespoonfuls of flour. Add also a little stock 
and stir until smooth. Cut the vegetable oysters in finger- 
length pieces and add to the gravy with salt. Thin the gravy, 
if necesary, with a little stock. Cook in a covered kettle in 
the Caloric fifteen minutes to one hour according to the size 
of the vegetable oysters. 



82 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

CEREALS 

The value of cereals as foods is admitted from the stand- 
point of economy as well as from that of nutrition. Served 
with milk and sugar, they have the same food value as meat. 
Almost without exception, the directions accompanying pack- 
ages of cereals give too short a time for the cooking. It re- 
quires several hours to cook most cereals, if they are to be 
made digestible. In this one particular the Caloric Cookstove 
is worth infinitely more than it costs. It thoroughly cooks 
every kernel, preserving each perfectly whole and rendering 
the cereal soft as jelly. It is preferable to cook cereals in a 
Caloric double boiler, which is an extra equipment at a small 
cost. When, however, a small quantity is desired, it may be 
cooked in a vessel placed in the eight or twelve-quart utensil, 
surrounded by boiling water. 

The water into which cereals is stirred should be boiling. 
Cook in the Caloric, using one radiator. 

Boiled Rice — Put one cupful of washed rice, two cupfuls 
of boiling water and one level teaspoonful of salt into the 
double boiler. Cook one-half hour, using one radiator. A 
handful of raisins is a good addition. The rice may be cooked 
directly over a radiator, without using a double boiler. 

Old Fashioned Oatmeal — One cupful of oatmeal; three 
and one-half cupfuls of water; one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
of salt. Stir the cereal slowly into the water and place in 
the Caloric for four or five hours, using one radiator. If not 
sufficiently hot at serving time, place the boiler over the fire 
until the water boils and the cereal is steaming. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 83 

Oatmeal Gruel — Add one-half cupful of coarse oatmeal 
and one-half teaspoonful of salt, to three cupfuls of boiling 
water. Cook in the Caloric six hours. Force through a 
strainer and dilute with milk and cream. Reheat and serve. 

Oatmeal Mush — Into three cupfuls of boiling water, put 
one level teaspoonful of salt and two and one-half cupfuls of 
oatmeal. Cook in the Caloric over night, using one radiator. 

Rice Cooked in Milk — Heat to the boiling point one quart 
of milk. Into this put one cupful of washed rice, a pinch of 
salt, a piece of cinnamon bark and sugar to taste. Before serv- 
ing, sprinkle sugar and cinnamon or mace over the rice. Cook 
in the double boiler in the Caloric one hour, using one radiator. 

Rice Cooked in Milk with Apples — Cook one cupful of 
rice in one quart of milk, without seasoning, as directed in 
the above recipe. When it is cool, add sugar, lemon peel, a 
pinch of salt and two eggs. Grease a basin with butter and 
put the rice into it. Remove the cores from eight apples. Fill 
the cavities with sugar, add bits of butter and dust with cin- 
namon. Put the rice and apples into the Caloric and <ook for 
two hours, using two radiators. 

Rolled Wheat — One cupful of wheat; two and one-half 
cupfuls of water; one teaspoonful of salt. Cook the same as 
Old Fashioned Oatmeal, 



84 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

BREAD 

Bread is a very important part of the family diet and care 
should be taken in selecting the flour. Do not expect to be 
able to make good bread of inferior flour or of th^t which is 
suitable only for pastry. Flour made from hard, spring wheat 
is considered the best for bread. 

Baking Powder Biscuits — One quart of flour; one tea- 
spoonful of salt ; two heaping teaspoonf uls of baking powder ; 
two heaping tablespoonfuls of lard. Wet with milk until it 
becomes a soft dough. Roll out one inch thick, cut into bis- 
cuits and bake in the Caloric rack twenty minutes, using 
two radiators. 

Boston Brown Bread — One cupful of rye meal ; one cup- 
ful of corn meal ; one cupful of graham flour ; two teaspoonfuls 
of soda; one teaspoonful of salt; two cupfuls of sour milk; 
three-fourth cupful of molasses. Mix thoroughly and bake 
tv/o and one-half hours in the Caloric, using two radiators. 

Bread No. 1 — Heat to the boiling point, in a Caloric uten- 
sil, one and one-half cupfuls of fresh milk. Add the same 
quantity of cold water. Break into a cup one cake of com- 
pressed yeast and add to it a teaspoonful of sugar and a little 
water. Stir and when the yeast is dissolved, add it to the milk 
and water, which should be lukewarm. Beat in flour enough 
to make a thick batter and set the sponge into a Caloric com- 
partment or on a warm radiator. Care must be taken that the 
sponge does not become hot, for in that case the yeast germs 
would be killed and the bread spoiled. When light and foamy. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 85 

add one tablespoonful each of sugar and lard and one or two 
teaspoonfuls of salt. Add more flour and knead into a loaf. 
Let it rise again and shape into loaves or rolls. When light 
bake in the Caloric, using two radiators. Loaves will bake in 
one hour and rolls in twenty to thirty minutes. 

Bread No. 2 — This bread is started the day before it is to 
be baked. If potatoes are cooked for the noon meal the yeast 
may be prepared then but it should not be done later than 
three o'clock. Use three medium-sized, boiled potatoes. Mash 
them fine and add a part of the water in which they were 
cooked. When the liquid is lukewarm add one cake of dry 
yeast which has been soaked until soft in one-half cupful of 
warm water. By evening the sponge should be foamy. Add to 
it one quart of warm water and flour enough to make a thick 
batter. Let it rise over night and in the morning add lard, 
sugar and salt and proceed as in the recipe for bread No. L 

Breakfast Muffins — Beat one egg, add a tablespoonful of 
sugar, a piece of butter the size of an egg and stir thoroughly. 
Add one cupful of milk and sift in slowly two and one-half 
cupfuls of flour into which put three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and a generous pinch of salt. Bake in gem pans in 
the Caloric twenty minutes, using two radiators. 

Brown Bread with Raisins — Two and one-half cupfuls of 
sour milk ; two cupfuls of graham flour ; one and one-half cup- 
fuls of corn meal ; one-half cupful of molasses ; one teaspoon- 
ful of soda; one teaspoonful of baking powder; a piece of 
butter; one cupful of raisins and one teaspoonful of salt. 
Steam in the Caloric three hours, using the double boiler oi 



86 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

in a mold set into an ordinary utensil. One radiator should 
be used. 

Brown Bread with Yeast — ^Two cupfuls of corn meal ; two 
cupfuls of flour; one teaspoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of 
soda ; one. pint of hot water ; one cupful of molasses ; one- 
half yeast cake; one-half cupful of lukewarm water. Scald 
the cornmeal with the hot water. Add the flour, molasses, 
salt and the yeast and soda each dissolved in one-fourth 
cupful of warm water. Pour the batter into greased molds, 
filling each a little over half full. Let it rise to the top and 
then bake in the Caloric three hours, using two radiators. 

Cinnamon Rolls — Sift together two cupfuls of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking' powder and one teaspoonful of salt. 
Rub in two tablespoonfuls of butter and add enough milk to 
make a soft dough. Roll out in oblong shape, one-half inch 
thick, spread with melted butter and sprinkle thickly with 
sugar and cinnamon. Roll up the long way, like jelly roll, 
and cut in one-half inch pieces. Bake in a pan in the Caloric 
rack twenty-five minutes, using two radiators. 

French Corn Bread — Cream two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and one tablespoonful of butter and add one-half teaspoonful 
of salt. Add two well-beaten eggs and one cupful of milk. 
Stir . into this three-fourths cupful of white cornmeal into 
which has been sifted three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Add one-half cupful of flour. Bake in the Caloric rack one 
hour, using very hot radiators. 

Light Rolls — Two cupfuls of milk, heated lukewarm ; two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar; two tablespoonfuls of butter dis- 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 87 

solved in the warm milk ; one cake of compressed yeast. Beat 
in four cupfuls of flour and add one egg well beaten. Then 
add flour enough to make a soft dough. Sift in with the flour 
one teaspoonful of salt. Let the dough rise until light, form 
into rolls, let it rise again and bake twenty minutes in the 
Caloric, using two radiators. 

Nut Bread — Two cupfuls of flour; two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder; one even teaspoonful of salt; two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Sift all together and add one cupful of milk, 
one egg well beaten and one-half cupful of nut meats. Place 
the dough in a pan and let it rise one-half hour. Bake in 
the Caloric rack one hour, using two radiators. 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake — One cupful of 
flour; one tablespoonful of butter; one teaspoonful of baking 
powder; one-half teaspoonful of salt; three-fourths cupful of 
milk; three-fourths cupful of granulated sugar. Bake in the 
Caloric rack one-half hour, using two radiators. Crush 
one box of strawberries and add sugar. When the cake is 
cold, split it and place the berries inside the cake and on the 
top. 

Steamed Graham Bread — One and one-half cupfuls of 
sour milk; one-half cupful of molasses; one-half cupful of 
thick cream, or butter the size of an egg; one teaspoonful of 
soda; one cupful of white flour in which should be sifted 
one teaspoonful of baking powder; two cupfuls of graham 
flour; one cupful of raisins. Put in cans, set in a kettle with 
one quart of boiling water and steam two hours, using one 
radiator. 



88 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Strawberry Shortcake — Two cupfuls of flour; two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder; one teaspoonful of salt. Work 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter and enough sweet milk to 
make a soft dough. Divide the dough into two parts, rolt 
it out to fit a pie pan and spread butter between the layers 
and on top. Bake twenty-five minutes in the Caloric rack, 
using two radiators. To three pints of strawberries add one 
and one-half cupfuls of sugar and spread between and on 
top of the shortcake. Serve with whipped cream. 




Strawberry Shortcake Baked in the Caloric 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 89 

SALADS 

Asparagus Salad No. 1 — Cut up two pounds of asparagus. 
Add a very little boiling water, and a pinch of salt and sugar. 
Cook in a covered kettle in the Caloric forty-five minutes. 
When done, arrange the asparagus on a platter and, when 
cold, dress it with vinegar and oil. 

Asparagus Salad No. 2 — Line a border mold with aspic 
jelly and lay in it quarters of hard boiled eggs and asparagus 
tips. Fill the mold with more jelly. When set, turn out and 
fill the center with boiled asparagus tips. Pour over the whole 
mayonnaise dressing and arrange around the base, slices of 
tomatoes seasoned with a little olive oil, tarragon vinegar and 
cayenne pepper. 

Baked Bean Salad — ^To one pint of Caloric baked beans 
add two or three cucumbers cut fine and one small onion 
chopped. Mix with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Beet Salad — Wash the beets, being careful not to break 
the skin. Put them into boiling water, without salt, and 
cook in the Caloric two hours. When done and still hot, peel 
them, slice them thin and put them into a crock. Pour over 
them vinegar to which has been added one teaspoonful of 
salt, one of pepper and one of sugar. They may be kept in 
a cool place for quite a while. 

Celery Salad — Remove the small roots from two or three 
celery bulbs and wash the bulbs. Put them, with a little salt, 
into boiling water and cook in a covered kettle in the Caloric 



90 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

one to one and one-half hours. When done, allow them to 
cool, scrape off the skins and slice them into a salad bowl. 
Pour over them vinegar and oil, season with sugar and pepper 
and mix carefully. 

Chicken Salad — Use one or two chickens previously 
cooked in the Caloric until perfectly tender. Remove Jthe 
skin, cut up the meat and season it. Add one-third as much 
celery, finely cut, and dress with mayonnaise. Garnish with 
cold boiled eggs, sliced. 

Fruit Salad — One small pineapple, cut fine; one-half 
pound of white grapes, seeded; two oranges, cut up; one 
cupful of pecan meats. Add mayonnaise dressing and serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

Potato Salad — Boil ten medium-sized potatoes in the 
Caloric. When cold, cut into dice and add one onion, cut fine, 
one-half can of shredded pimentoes and three hard-boiled 
eggs sliced. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 

Potato Salad with Bacon — This is prepared as in the 
above recipe except that the onion is omitted. In place of 
that, cut some bacon into small cubes and fry them in a little 
butter until yellow. Add these, when lukewarm, to the 
potatoes. 

Potato Salad with Cucumbers — Slice warm potatoes. Pare 
a fresh, green cucumber and cut it into very thin slices. Mix 
it carefully with the potatoes. Make a dressing with a finely 
cut onion, salt, pepper, vinegar and oil and three or four 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 91 

cablespoonfuls of thick, sour cream. Mix this lightly with 
the potatoes and cucumber. Mayonnaise dressing may also 
be used. 

String Bean Salad — Cut one pound of young, green string 
beans into small pieces. Put them, with a little salt and 
summer savory, into boiling water. Cook in a covered kettle 
in the Caloric one and one-half hours. When the beans have 
cooled, mix them with vinegar, oil, salt, pepper and a pinch 
of sugar. 

Tomato Jelly Salad — One pint of strained tomatoes ; one- 
half cupful of sugar; one-half cupful of vinegar; one chopped 
celery bulb ; one can of pimentoes, cut fine ; one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one and one-half tablespoonfuls of gelatine 
soaked in one-half cupful of cold water. Heat the tomatoes, 
sugar and vinegar to the boiling point, add the gelatine, the 
celery and the pimentoes and turn into a shallow dish. Place 
on ice and when set cut in squares and serve in lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

Waldorf Salad — One cupful of diced, tart apples ; one cup- 
ful of celery, cut into small cubes; a dozen or more English 
walnuts, broken into small pieces. Mix all together and add 
mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



92 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

SALAD DRESSING 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 1 — The following recipe is that 
of a French chef. The dressing may be used for any kind of 
salad. It will keep for weeks in a cool place. 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs very light. Add one cupful 
of sugar, one quart of cream, one tablespoonful each of salt, 
pepper and ground mustard, a pinch of cayenne, one table- 
spoonful of flour rubbed smooth with a little of the cream, 
one-half cupful of butter and one quart of vinegar. Heat 
slowly until it reaches the boiling point, stirring constantly. 
Place in jars. The white of the eggs may be used for making 
an angel food cake. 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2 — One tablespoonful of sugar ; 
one tablespoonful of flour ; one-half tablespoonful of mustard ; 
one-half teaspoonful of salt; two eggs, well beaten, and one 
teaspoonful of butter. Add one cupful of vinegar and heat 
until it thickens, stirring all the time. When used, thin with 
cream or vinegar. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 93 

PIES 

Prepare the crust in the ordinary manner. The radiators 
should be hissing hot. This makes the crust more crisp. Use 
ordinary pie tins, slipping them into the wire rack. 

Apple Pie — Line a plate with crust. On the bottom 
scatter one-fourth cupful of sugar mixed with one tablespoon- 
ful of flour. Fill the plate with apples, sprinkle them with 
sugar and add some small pieces of butter. Bake in the 
Caloric rack about three-fourths of an hour, using two radi- 
ators. Any fruit pie may be made according to this recipe. 

Date Pie — Line a pan with rich paste. For the filling use 
one cupful of dates cut fine, one-cupful of milk, two thirds cup- 
ful of sugar, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
a pinch of salt. Fill the crust and bake in the Caloric rack 
one hour, using two radiators. When cold, cover the top with 
whipped cream. 

Lemon Pie — Add to one cupful of boiling water one table- 
spoonful of cornstarch stirred smooth in a little cold water. 
Stir until it thickens and boils; then remove from the stove 
and add a scant one-half cupful of butter and one cupful of 
sugar, which have been well stirred together. When cool, add 
one beaten egg and the juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
Pour into a baking pan which has been lined with crust and 
bake in the Caloric twenty minutes, using two radiators. 
When done, cover with a meringue and return the pie to the 
Caloric to brown, using two radiators. 



94 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

PUDDINGS 

For steamed puddings, rice and fruit puddings and all 
those that require long and slow cooking, the Caloric is in- 
valuable. In no other way can the old-fashioned, creamy, rice 
pudding of our grandmothers be so delicately cooked. Pud- 
dings to be steamed should be poured into molds and securely 
placed in a Caloric kettle. The water should reach at least 
one-third the way up the mold. Cover the kettle and, when 
the water boils gently over a flame stove, remove the kettle to 
the Caloric and leave it several hours, using one radiator. 
Puddings to be baked should be prepared as for the ordinary 
range oven. The dish may be of earthenware, aluminum or 
enamelware and should be slipped into the wire rack. Pud- 
dings will bake in the same length of time that would be re- 
quired in an ordinary oven. If, however, a pudding is left 
in the Caloric a longer time than is necessary for the baking, 
it will not burn. The Caloric is the nearest approach to the 
old brick oven of our ancestors that the modern world has 
ever seen. It gives just the right finishing touch to the old- 
time dishes, such as New England Indian pudding, Boston 
brown bread, Boston baked beans, etc. 

Apple Roll — Make a crust of two cupfuls of flour, one-half 
cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of 
salt, one level teaspoonful of butter and one tgg, well beaten. 
Roll out very thin and cover with thin slices of apple. Roll 
up and place in a pudding mold. Set the mold into boiling 
water in a Caloric kettle and steam two hours, using one 
radiator. Serve with sweetened cream. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding — Wash three cupfuls of pearl tap- 
ioca and place it in the double boiler. Pour six cupfuls of cold 
water over it and let it stand over night. The next day cook it 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 95 

in the Caloric one hour, using one radiator. Core and pare 
seven apples. Put them in a round dish and fill the cavities 
with sugar and lemon juice. Pour the tapioca over them and 
bake in the Caloric until the apples are soft. Serve cold with 
whipped cream and sugar. 

Baked Apple Dumpling — One pint of flour ; two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder; one cupful of milk; one quart of ripe, 
tart apples cut into slices. Sift the flour and baking powder 
together. Rub in the butter and mix like biscuit dough. Roll 
out. Place the apples in a deep pie plate, put the crust on top 
and bake thirty minutes in the Caloric rack, using two radia- 
tors. When it is done, reverse and cover with sugar, bits of 
butter and cinnamon. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Bread Pudding — One cupful of bread crumbs ; one pint of 
milk ; two eggs ; one-half cupful of sugar ; a piece of butter the 
size of an egg ; one-half cupful of raisins ; one-half teaspoonful 
each of salt and cinnamon. Bake in a buttered dish in the 
Caloric one hour, using two radiators. 

Brown Betty — Mix two cupfuls of tart apples, peeled, 
cored and minced with one and one-half cupfuls of fine bread 
crumbs. Add one cupful of sugar, a tablespoonful of butter, 
three eggs, well beaten, and one-half teaspoonful each of mace 
and cinnamon. Turn into a buttered dish and bake in the 
Caloric three hours, using two radiators. Serve with liquid 
sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding — Two cupfuls of stale cake crumbs ; two 
eggs, beaten; two cupfuls of milk; two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar ; one teaspoonful of vanilla and one saltspoonf ul of salt. 
Cleanse two tablespoonfuls of currants, add two tablespoon- 



96 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

fuls of Sultana raisins and two tablespoonfuls of citron, cut 
into shreds. Grease a dish and fill with alternate layers of 
fruit and cake crumbs. Moisten each layer of crumbs with the 
milk and the beaten eggs. Add a little more milk, if neces- 
sary. Bake in the Caloric one hour, using two radiators. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding — Soak two cupfuls of bread 
crumbs in four cupfuls of scalded milk half an hour. Melt two 
squares of chocolate over hot water. Add to the bread two- 
thirds cupful of sugar, the chocolate, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of vanilla and two slightly beaten eggs. 
Turn into a buttered dish and bake in the Caloric three- 
fourths of an hour or more, using two radiators. Serve with 
whipped cream or hard sauce. 

Cottage Pudding — One cupful of sugar; one-third cupful 
of butter ; two eggs ; one-half cupful of milk ; one and one-half 
cupfuls of flour; two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in 
the Caloric one-half hour, using two radiators. 

Cup Custard — Heat, without scalding, three cupfuls of 
rich milk. Add three small tablespoonfuls of brown sugar 
and a pinch of salt. Beat two eggs, add the hot milk^ stir and 
pour into custard cups, grating a little nutmeg on top of each 
custard. Set the cups into boiling water and bake in the 
Caloric one-half hour, using two radiators. Then place on ice 
to set. 

Date Pudding — Two cupfuls of bread crumbs; one and 
one-half cupfuls of suet; one-half cupful of sugar; one cupful 
of flour ; two cupfuls of dates ; two eggs ; two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder; one-half teaspoonful of salt; one-half cupful 
of milk. Steam in the Caloric double boiler three hours, using 
one radiator. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 97 

Fig Pudding — Mix together one cupful of molasses, one 
cupful of chopped suet, one pint of chopped figs, one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon and one-half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 
Add one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water 
and one cupful of milk. Beat two eggs light and stir into the 
mixture. Add two and one-fourth cupfuls of flour. Beat 
thoroughly. Fill a buttered mold three-fourths full. Steam 
in the Caloric three hours, using one radiator. Serve with 
wine sauce. 

Green Com Pudding — To the beaten yolks of three eggs 
add four cupfuls of green corn, two cupfuls of milk, one-half 
cupful of butter and salt and pepper. Pour this into a but- 
tered baking pan, add the beaten whites of three eggs and 
bake one hour, using two radiators, moderately hot. 

Huckleberry Pudding — One teaspoonful of butte^; three 
teaspoonfuls of brown sugar; one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der; two eggs; flour enough for a batter and one pint of 
huckleberries stirred in last. Bake in the Caloric thirty min- 
utes, using two radiators. 

New England Indian Pudding — Pour two quarts of milk, 
scalding hot, over twenty-one even tablespoonfuls of cornmeal, 
moistened with two-thirds cupful of molasses. Let this cool 
one-half hour. Then add one pint of cold water and salt to 
taste. Bake in the Caloric four hours or until it is jellied and 
red, using two radiators. 

Prune Pudding — Wash well one pound of prunes. Cover 
them with water and add one cupful of sugar. Cook in a 
Caloric kettle over night. Remove the stones and rub the 
prunes through a sieve. Add the stiffly beaten whites of four 



98 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

eggs. Bake in a buttered pan in the Caloric forty-five min- 
utes, using two radiators. 

Rice Pudding — Two cupfuls of cooked rice; one quart 
of milk ; three eggs ; one cupful of sugar ; one cupful of raisins ; 
cinnamon and salt to taste and butter the size of an egg. 
Bake in a buttered dish in the Caloric one hour, using two 
radiators. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding — One pint of flour ; two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder; a pinch of salt; one egg; two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and enough milk to make a dough that 
will drop from a spoon. Use any kind of fruit and steam 
in cups in the Caloric one hour, using one radiator. 

Steamed Plum Pudding — To two cupfuls of fine bread 
crumbs add one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, one-half 
cupful of molasses, one cupful of milk, one cupful of suet, one 
cupful of seeded raisins, chopped; one cupful of currants, 
washed and dried; one-fourth pound of citron, sliced; one 
ounce of candied orange peel, minced; one-half teaspoonful 
each of mace and cinnamon and one small teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little hot water. Add three eggs, well 
beaten. Dredge the fruit with flour before adding it to the 
other ingredients. Beat hard and pour into a buttered mold. 
Steam in the Caloric four hours. When ready to serve, turn 
it out on a platter, pour brandy over it and set fire to the 
brandy. 

Suet Pudding — To one cupful of beef suet, chopped fine, 
add one cupful of molasses, one cupful of milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one cupful of chopped raisins, one cupful of cur- 
rants and spices, as desired. Sift in two and one-half cupfuls 
of flour. Steam in cans two hours, using one radiator. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 99 

PUDDING SAUCES 

Custard Sauce — Add one cupful of powdered sugar to two 
cupfuls of scalded milk and add the yolks of two eggs, beaten 
light. Season with nutmeg and cinnamon and stir until the 
sauce is slightly thick. Remove it from the fire and whip 
in the beaten whites of the eggs. Place over boiling water 
to keep warm, and, just before serving, add one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. 

Hard Sauce — Cream one-fourth cupful of butter in a 
warm bowl. Add, gradually, one-half cupful of powdered 
sugar and the flavoring (either brandy, vanilla or lemon). 
Place in a small dish and grate nutmeg on the top. 

Maple Sauce — A good sauce to serve with steamed pud- 
ding may be made by dissolving one-half pint of maple sugar 
in a cupful of water, adding one-half cupful of butter mixed 
with one tablespoonful of flour and flavoring to taste. Boil 
a few moments. 

Sauce for Cottage Pudding — One cupful of sugar; one 
heaping tablespoonful of flour. Blend and add one pint of 
boiling water. Stir well, season with nutmeg, add a piece of 
butter the size of an Qgg and a little salt. 

Vanilla Sauce — Cream one-half cupful of butter with one 
cupful of powdered sugar. Heat over boiling water while 
adding one-half cupful of rich milk or cream. Beat until 
smooth and creamy, remove from the fire and add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 



100 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Wine Sauce — Wet one tablespoonful of cornstarch in cold 
water and stir in one cupful of boiling water. Boil ten min- 
utes. Rub one-fourth cupful of butter to a cream. Add 
gradually one cupful of powdered sugar, one egg, well beaten 
and one saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. Add to the cornstarch 
one-half cupful of wine and pour the two mixtures togetherl 
Stir well until blended. 




Cake Baked in the Caloric 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 101 

CAKE 

The amount of heat required for baking cake varies ac- 
cording to the composition of the cake. Knowledge of the 
exact degree of heat required can be gained only by experi- 
ence. A batter which contains butter needs more Keat than 
one in which there is no butter. This fact must be considered 
in the heating of the radiators. A little practice is all that is 
necessary. Only a few recipes for cake are given, as all one's 
own favorite kinds may be baked in the Caloric. Ordinary 
cake pans should be used and slipped into the wire rack 
when the cake is ready for the oven. 

Angel Cake — Whites of eleven eggs ; one and three-fourths 
cupfuls granulated sugar; one cupful of flour; one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar and a pinch of salt. Sift the flour four 
or five times before measuring. Sift the sugar also. Beat the 
whites of the eggs about half, add the cream of tartar and the 
salt and beat until very stiff. Stir in the sugar and the flour 
very lightly and flavor to taste. Bake in a tube pan in the 
Caloric rack forty-five to fifty-five minutes, using two mod- 
erately hot radiators. 

Brown Sugar Layer Cake — Two cupfuls of dark brown 
sugar ; one-half cupful of butter ; one-half cupful of sour milk ; 
two eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately) ; two and one- 
half cupfuls of flour; one-eighth cake of cooking chocolate 
dissolved in one-half cupful of boiling water; one level tea- 
spoonful of soda and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake thirty 
minutes in the Caloric, using two radiators. 



102 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Filling — Two and one-half cupfujs of brown sugar; one- 
half cupful of cream or milk; butter the size of an egg. Boil 
until it makes a soft ball in water and add one cupful of 
chopped nuts and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir until it begins 
to thicken and spread between the layers and on top of the 
cake. 

Cocoanut Loaf Cake — One-half cupful of butter ; one cup- 
ful of sugar; one and one-half cupfuls of flour; two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder ; two eggs ; one cupful of grated cocoa- 
nut and a pinch of salt. Cream the butter and sugar together, 
add the yolks of the eggs, then the flour, salt and baking pow- 
der sifted together, and lastly fold in the whites of the eggs. 
Bake in a tube pan in the Caloric basket forty minutes, using 
two radiators. 

Devirs Food — Cook until thick, one egg, one-fourth cup- 
ful of grated chocolate and one-half cupful of milk. When the 
mixture is cool add one cupful of sugar, one cupful of milk, 
one-third cupful of butter, melted, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla and one and one-third cupfuls of flour. 
Bake in the Caloric thirty minutes, using two radiators. 



Eggless Ceike — Cream one scant cupful of sugar and one- 
fourth cupful of butter. Add three-fourths of a cupful of 
milk, one and one-half cupfuls of flour sifted with one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add the flour and 
milk alternately. Pour into a greased pan and bake in the 
Caloric rack thirty-five minutes, using two radiators. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 103 

Fruit Cake — Cream one cupful of sugar with one-half 
cupful of butter. Add the yolks of six eggs, a little grated 
lemon rind, four ounces each of rasins and currants, one 
pound of flour and a scant one-half pint of milk. Fold in the 
beaten whites of six eg^s, and, lastly, add two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Bake in the Caloric one hour, using two 
radiators. 

Gold Cake — Yolks of eight eggs ; one scant cupful of gran- 
ulated sugar; one-half cupful of butter; one-half cupful of 
milk; one and one-half cupfuls of flour and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly, 
add the eggs well beaten, and stir thoroughly. Add the milk 
and flour and beat hard. Bake in a tube pan in the Caloric 
rack, using two radiators 

Hot Water Sponge Cake — One and one-half cupfuls of 
powdered sugar or one and one-fourth cupfuls of granulated 
sugar ; four eggs ; on and one-half cupfuls of sifted flour ; two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; four tablespoonf uls of boiling 
water and a pinch of salt. Cream the egg yolks and the sugar 
thoroughly, add the beaten whites, sift in the flour and, after 
beating thoroughly, add the boiling water. Bake in a tube 
pan in the Caloric rack twenty-five minutes, using two 
radiators. 

Marble Cake^ — For the light part, use one cupful of sugar, 
one-half cupful of butter, one cupful of milk, one and one- 
fourth cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of lemon extract and the whites of four eggs. For 



104 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

the dark part, use one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of 
butter, one-half cupful of syrup, one-half cupful of jelly, the 
yolks of four eggs, one-half cupful of sour milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
nutmeg and cinnamon and one-half cupful each of currants 
and raisins. This will make two cakes. Bake forty minutes 
in the Caloric, using two radiators. 

Molasses Cake — One cupful of molasses; one-half cupful 
of sugar; one-half cupful of butter; two cupfuls of flour; one 
egg ; one teaspoonful of soda ; salt and spice to taste. Lastly, 
add one cupful of boiling water. Bake in the Caloric forty 
minutes, using two radiators. 

Raisin Cake — One egg; one tablespoonful of butter; one- 
half cupful of milk; two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; one 
cupful of seeded raisins; two and one-half cupfuls of flour. 
Flavor with vanilla. Dredge the raisins with a little flour. 
Bake one hour in the Caloric, using two radiators. 

Soiu: Milk Cake — Two eggs, beaten separately ; one cupful 
of sugar ; one cupful of sour cream ; one teaspoonful of soda ; 
one and one-half cupfuls of flour; one teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in the Caloric forty-five 
minutes, using two radiators. 

Spice Cake — One cupful of brown sugar; one-half cupful 
of butter; one-half cupful of sour milk; two even teaspoon- 
of soda ; three eggs, cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg ; one cupful 
of nut meats ; one cupful of raisins ; two cupfuls of flour. Beat 
well. Bake in the Caloric forty minutes, using two radiators. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 105 

Sponge Cake — Three eggs, well beaten; one cupful of 
sugar ; one cupful of flour ; one teaspoonful of baking powder ; 
one-half cupful of hot milk. Mix thoroughly and bake in the 
Caloric twenty-five minutes, using two radiators. 

Sunshine Cake — One and one-half cupfuls of sifted flour; 
one cupful of sugar ; one teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; whites 
of ten eggs ; yolks of six eggs. Beat the whites until they are 
stiff and cream in half the sugar. Beat the yolks very light 
and add the remainder of the sugar. Flavor with grated 
orange peel. Bake in an angel food tin in the Caloric rack 
one hour, using two radiators. 

Washington Cake — One pound of butter; one pound of 
brown sugar ; one pound of flour ; one pound of raisins ; one- 
half pound of citron ; a little nutmeg ; four eggs ; one cupful of 
milk; two wineglassfuls of brandy; two even teaspoonfuls of 
soda ; one cupful of nut meats. Bake in a tube pan one hour, 
using two radiators. This makes two cakes which will keep 
for a long time. 



106 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

ICING 

Tutti Frutti Icing — Two-thirds cupfuls of ganulated 
sugar; one-half cupful of water. Boil five minutes. Add one 
cupful of chopped English walnuts, one cupful of raisins, one- 
half pound of figs, one-half cupful of maple syrup and the 
white of one egg. Stir and allow it to cool. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 107 

SOUFFLES 

Souffles may be made in a shallow basin or dish that will 
fit in the large Caloric vessel. They must be served in the 
dish in which they were baked. The following hint may serve 
as a pleasant variation: 

Put only half of the souffle material into the baking dish. 
Cut a piece of baking wafer the exact size of the dish and place 
it on top of the souffle already in the dish. Place canned fruit 
(without juice), preserves, or freshly stewed fruit (also with- 
out juice) on top of the baking wafer. Put another wafer on 
top of the fruit and then add the other half of the souffle. 
The baking wafer will soften and blend with the souffle and 
the fruit so that it cannot be detected after baking. 

The dish in which a souffle is baked should be well greased 
with butter. 

Almond Souffle — Chop five and one-half ounces of al- 
monds. Beat together the yolks of six eggs and three-fourths 
cupful of sugar. Add the chopped almonds, two tablespoon- 
fuls of bread crumbs, some grated lemon rind and a pinch of 
cinnamon. Mix well and fold in the beaten whites of the six 
eggs. Bake in the Caloric one and three-fourths hours, using 
two radiators. 

Apple Souffle — Soak half an hour four or five stale milk 
rolls in milk. Then press out most of the milk. Cream two 
tablespoonfuls of butter with a little sugar and add the yolks 
of four eggs, the soaked milk rolls and five or six finely cut 
cooking apples. A little vanilla or grated lemon rind may also 



108 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

be added. Fold in the beaten whites of the four eggs and 
turn into a baking dish. Bake in the Caloric two hours, using 
two radiators. 

Bread Crumb Souffle — Beat well together four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and four eggs until foamy. Add four table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, a pinch of cinnamon, allspice or 
cloves and one-half teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in 
the Caloric one and one-half hours, using two radiators. 

Cherry Souffle — This is prepared the same as apple 
souffle, using one pound of large cherries instead of apples. 

Lemon Souffle — Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar until they are foamy. Add a 
little lemon juice, some grated lemon rind, four tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, a little baking powder and fold in the beaten 
whites of the four eggs. Bake in the Caloric one and one- 
half hours, using two radiators. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 109 

STEWED AND BAKED FRUITS 

By means of the Caloric Fireless Cookstove fruit which 
should remain whole may be cooked more satisfactorily than 
in any other way. No burning is possible, so no stirring is 
necessary and the fruit is thus left whole. If care is exercised 
in removing it from the utensil in which it was cooked, it 
should appear on the table in its original shape. 

Baked Apples — Core medium-sized apples but do not 
pare them. Fill the cavities with sugar and bits of butter, or 
with raisins and English walnuts. Cover well with sugar and 
pour a cupful of water around them. Sprinkle with nutmeg 
before serving. Bake in the Caloric, using two radiators. 

Stewed Apples — Pare apples and remove the cores. Boil 
some water in a Caloric utensil. There should not be more 
than an inch of water in the vessel. Place the apples in the 
water and sprinkle sugar over them. Cover the kettle and 
cook in the Caloric one hour, using one radiator. 

This recipe may be varied by filling the apples with 
chopped nuts and raisins. 

Stewed Apricots — Apricots should not be too ripe. Pare 
them and remove the stones. Heat to the boiling point a few 
tablespoonfuls of water. Put the apricots ijito this and 
sprinkle them with sugar. Cook in a covered kettle in the 
Caloric one-half hour, using two radiators. 



no CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Stewed Pears — Pare the pears without removing the 
stems. Put them into cold water immediately so that they 
will not discolor. Cook them in water as directed in the 
recipe for stewed apples. 

Stewed Peaches or Plums — Put the fruit into a kettle. 
Sprinkle sugar over it and add a little water. Follow the 
recipe for stewed apples. 

Stewed Quinces — Pare ripe quinces, cut them into thin 
slices and put them into cold water. Heat a little water to 
the boiling point and add the quinces with sugar and a little 
lemon juice, white wine or vinegar. Cook in a covered kettle 
in the Caloric one and one-half hours, using one radiator. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 111 

FRUIT SAUCES 
Apple Sauce — Wash and core, but do not pare the apples. 
Put them into a kettle with just enough water to cover them. 
Cook in the Caloric two hours, using one radiator. When 
done, add sugar to taste and strain through a sieve. Cool and 
serve. 

Cranberry Sauce — Wash one quart of cranberries and add 
two cupfuls of sugar and one-fourth cupful of water. Cook in 
a covered kettle in the Caloric one hour, using one radiator. 

Dried Apricots, Apples, Peaches or Pears — Soak the fruit 
over night in cold water enough to cover it. Sweeten to taste 
and cook in the Caloric two hours, using one radiator. Boil 
the liquid down to a syrup and* serve the fruit in it. 

Jellied Prunes — Wash one-third of a pound of prunes. 
Soak for several hours in two cupfuls of cold water. Heat 
to the boiling point on a flame stove and place the kettle in 
-the Caloric for thre€ hours, using one radiator. When done, 
stone and quarter the prunes. Soak one-half box of gelatine 
in one-half cupful of cold water and add it to the prune juice. 
Add one cupful of sugar and one-fourth cupful of lemon juice. 
Strain, add the prunes and pour into molds. When cold, serve 
with whipped cream and sugar. 

Rhubarb Sauce — Wash and cut the rhubarb into one-inch 
pieces, but do not peel it. Put it into a kettle with sugar but 
no water. Cook in the Caloric one hour or more, using one 
radiator. 



112 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

Stewed Prunes — Wash one pound of prunes, cover them 
with cold water and add one cupful of sugar. Cook in the 
Caloric four hours or over night, using one radiator. 

Stuffed Peaches — Cut large, ripe peaches in two, remove 
the stones and fill the cavities with chopped nuts and stoned 
raisins. Pour over them one-half cupful of water and sprinkle 
them with sugar. Bake in the Caloric one-half hour, using 
two radiators. , , ,;,::;.; 4f|^g 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 113 

COFFEE 

Coffee — Allow one tablespoonful of coffee to each cupful 
of water. Mix the coffee with egg and cold water and place 
in a Caloric kettle. Set the kettle on the radiator while it is 
heating. When both are moderately hot, remove to Caloric. 
It will be ready in from three to five hours. It should never 
boil. 



114 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Before starting to can fruits or vegetables see that the 
jars are perfectly clean, that the rubbers are new and that 
the jar tops are in good condition. Always select the best 
fruit for canning. 

In canning berries, fill the jars as full as possible. Make 
a heavy syrup and pour it over the berries in the jar until 
the jar is full. Seal immediately and place in a kettle half 
filled with boiling water. Remove to the Caloric for six hours 
or longer, using one radiator. Berries will retain their shape 
and the juice will be clear. 

In preserving peaches or pears, pare and core the fruit, 
pack it in jars and proceed as for berries. 

Canned Green Corn — Cut the corn from the cob and pack 
it tightly in glass jars. Put the rubbers on the jars and seal 
them. Set the jars into a kettle with enough boiling water 
to reach the top. Place in the Caloric, using one radiator and 
leave until the water is cool. 

String Beans — Cut up fresh string beans into one-inch 
lengths and pack them tightly in glass jars. Pour over them 
salted, boiling water and proceed as in the recipe for corn. 

To Render Lard — Wash and cut up leaf lard in small 
pieces, place in a large kettle and set the kettle on a radiator 
while it is heating. When both are hot, remove to the Caloric 
and leave over night. Next morning, strain, and the lard will 
be fine and white. 



. PART III. 
Measures, Proportions, Household Hints. 




Biscuit Deliciously Baked the Caloric Way 



PART III. 

TABLE OF MEASURES 

Sixty drops equal one teaspoon ful. 

Three teaspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful. 

Four tablespoon ful s equal one-quarter cup or one-half gill. 

Eight rounded tablespoon fuls of dry material equal one 
cupful. 

Sixteen tablespoonfuls of liquid equal one cupful. 

One cupful of liquid equals two gills or one-half pint. 

One heaping tablespoonful of sugar equals one ounce. 

One heaping tablespoonful of butter equals two ounces. 

Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour equal one ounce. 

Two rounded tablespoonfuls of ground spice equal one 
ounce. 

One cupful of butter or sugar equals one-half pound. 
Two cupfuls of flour equal one-half pound. 
Five medium-sized nutmegs equal one ounce. 
One quart of sifted pastry flour equals one pound. 
One pint of granulated sugar equals one pound. 



118 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

One pint of butter equals one pound. 

One pint of ordinary liquid equals one pound. 

One solid pint of chopped meat equals one pound. 

One cupful of rice equals one-half pound. 

One cupful of Indian meal equals six ounces. 

One cupful of stemmed raisins equals six ounces. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 119 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS 

One level teaspoon ful of baking powder to one level cupful 
of flour. 

One teaspoonful of cream of tartar to one cupful of flour. 

One-half teaspoonful of soda to one cupful of flour. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one cupful of molasses. 

Two heaping tablespoonfuls of cornstarch to one quart of 
milk. 

A little over an ounce of gelatine to one quart of liquid. 



120 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

Try ground caraway seed as flavoring for a simple cake. 
Many prefer the ground spice to the seeds. 

A pinch of salt added to the whites of eggs will make them 
whip better. 

If a pinch of vinegar is put into doughnuts they will not 
absorb the fat in which they are fried. 

If potatoes are pared and laid in cold water before boiling 
they will remain white. 

Dry celery stalks and use them for seasoning. 

Never put strawberries in tinware. 

A hot cloth wrapped around jelly or ices will cause them 
to come out of the molds without sticking. 

A little boiling water added to an omelet will keep it from 
being tough. 

A little butter added to cake frosting greatly improves it. 

Dredge cake tins with flour and the cake will not stick to 
the tins. 

Wooden spoons are best to use in cakemaking. 

If raisins and currants are rolled in flour before being put 
into cake they will not sink to the bottom. 

When cutting fresh bread dip the knife jn hot water. 

Keep an apple in the cake-box. It will keep the cake fresh 
for a long time. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 121 

If grease is spilled on the kitchen floor cold water should 
be poured on it immediately. The water will harden the grease 
and prevent it from soaking into the floor. It may then be 
scraped up with a knife. 

When using valuable vases for table decoration fill them 
one-fourth full of sand to prevent them from being tipped over. 

Scatter a few drops of lavender in bookcases in the sum- 
mer and no mold will be found. 

To preserve maps brush each with a solution of gutta percha 
which is quite transparent. It may be applied to both sides. 

Moisten grease spots with cold water and soda before 
scrubbing. 

Soak new brooms in hot, salted water before using them. 
The salt toughens the bristles and the brooms will last longer. 

Try cucumber peelings to exterminate cockroaches. The 
cucumber acts as poison to the roaches. 

Stains on knives, however obstinate, will disappear if rubbed 
with a piece of raw potato. ^ 

Try soft tissue paper for cleaning or polishing a mirror. 

Never use soap and water on varnished woodwork. 

To prevent flies from entering a house brush the screen 
doors with kerosene. 

If a drawer sticks, rub a little fresh lard on it. 

Sprinkle the cellar often with chloride of lime and it will 
be kept free from rats. 



122 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 



To clean straw mattings wash them with soft water, chang- 
ing the water often. 

Add a little kerosene to the water in which windows are 
washed. 

Burn orange peel on the stove instead of coffee for dis- 
agreeable odors — the effect is more pleasant. 

A few drops of oil of lavender poured in a glass of hot 
water makes a pleasant odor in a sick room. 

Scour copper kettles with salt and vinegar. 

Keep an oyster shell in the teakettle to prevent the forming 
of a crust. 

Straw mattings will last longer if given a coat of varnish, 

A piece of camphor kept with silver will prevent the silver 
from tarnishing. 

Crushed eggshells or shot will clean a water bottle or vinegar 
cruet. 

Use lemon juice to remove mildew stains. 

Put a pinch of salt into water in which cut flowers are 
placed and they will last longer. 

To clean a clogged drain pipe, pour down some kerosene 
and follow it immediately with boiling water. 

Polish a dining table with melted beeswax, rubbed on with 
a soft cloth. 

When planting sweet peas have the rows run north and 
south. The plants will blossom better. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 123 

When laundering lace curtains, if a creamy shade is desired, 
add clear, strong coffee to the starch. 

Wash challies in rice water made by cooking one pound of 
rice in five quarts of water. Strain and cool. 

Add a little turpentine to water in which clothes are boiled ; 
it will whiten them. 

Clean flatirons with emery paper. 

A few drops of kerosene added to starch will make ironing 
easier. 

When laundering Battenberg pieces put a teaspoonful of 
borax into the rinsing water and there will be no need of starch. 



Soak hair brushes in ammoniated water to harden the bris- 
tles and prevent them from falling out. 

If a gown has become stained with lemon juice, ammonia 
applied to the spot will restore the cloth to its natural color. 

To remove ink stains from clothing soak the spot in sour 
milk. 

A faded dress may be made perfectly white by boiling it 
in water to which cream of tartar has been added. 

A gold chain may be made to look very bright by dipping 
it in a cup containing one part of ammonia and three parts of 
water. 



124 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

A teaspoonful of flour or sulphur, dissolved in hot milk and 
slowly sipped, is said to be helpful in case of sore throat. 

Apply common mud to a bee sting and the pain will cease. 
Scrape raw potatoes and apply the pulp to a burn. It will 
give immediate relief. 

The whites of eggs beaten, with salt, to the consistency of 
frosting and applied to a sprain will give great relief. Renew 
the application as the egg becomes dry. 

Celery, eaten abundantly, is said to be good for neuralgia. 

Lay thin slices of potato across the forehead in case of 
headache. 

A gargle of salt and water is a good remedy for sore throat. 

Boiled flaxseed juice flavored with lemon is excellent for a 

cough. 

To cure hiccoughs^ take a long breath and hold it. 

Salt and sugar mixed together will sometimes stop a cough. 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Almond, Souffle, 115. 

Apple, Dumpling, Baked, 102. 

Pie, 100. 

Roll, 101. 

Sauce, 119. 

Souffle, 115. 

Tapioca Pudding, 102. 
Apples, Baked, 117. 

Dried, 119. 

Stewed, 117. 
Apricots, Dried, 119. 

Stewed, 117. 
Asparagus, Roast Chicken 
with, 72. 

Salad, 96. 

Soup, 28. 

Baking Powder Biscuits, 91. 

Bean, Soup, 28. 

String, Salad, 98. 
Beans, Baked, 80. 

Canned String, 122. 

String, 97. 
Beef, a la Mode, 39. 

a la Venison, 40. 

Austrian Filet, 39. 

Boiled, 42. 

Broth, Invalid's, 43. 

Brown, Stew, 42. 

Corned, 43. 

Filet, Roast, 43. 

Filet Roast, Steamed, 47. 

Goulach Stew, 43. 

Hash, Baked, 39. 

Loaf, 40. 



Beef 

Panned Steak, 44. 

Picklesteiner from Tender- 
loin, 44. 

Pot Roast, 44. 

Pot Roast with Potatoes, 
45. 

Ragout, a la Creole, 45. 

Rib Roast, Steamed, 47. 

Roast, Rare, 46. 

Rolled, Steak, 46. 

Roulard, 41. 

Stew, 41. 

Stewed with Ham, 47. 

Swedish Steak, 48. 

Tea, 41. 
Beet Salad, 96. ^ 

Beets, 81. 

Biscuits, Baking Powder, 91. 
Boiled Dinner, 69. 
Bouillon, 29. 
Bread, Boston Brown, 91. 

Brown, with Raisins, 92. 

Brown, with Yeast, 93. 

Crumb Souffle, 116. 

French Corn, 93. 

Graham, Steamed, 94. 

Nut, 94. 

Pudding, 102. 
Broth, Chicken Jelly or, 29. 

Invalid's, 43. 

Mutton, 30. 
Brown Betty, 102. 
Cabbage with Cream Dress- 
ing, 81. 



125 



126 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 



Cake, Angel, 109. 

Brown Sugar Layer, 109. 

Cocoanut Loaf, 110. 

Devil's Food, 110. 

Eggless, 110. 

Fruit, 111. 

Gold, 111. 

Marble, 111. 

Molasses, 112. 

Raisin, 112. 

Sour Milk, 112. 

Spice, 112. 

Sponge, 113. 

Sponge, Hot Water, 111. 

Sunshine, 13. 

Washington, 113. 
Calt's Breast, .Steamed, 50. 

or Pig's Tongue, Boiled, 69. 
Caloric Specialties, 69. 
Canning and Preserving, 122. 
Carrots, 82. 

Cauliflower, Boiled, 80. 
Celery, Cream of. Soup, 30. 

Salad, 96. 
Cereals, 89. 

Boiled Rice, 89. 

Oatmeal Mush, 90. 

Old Fashion^- Oatmeal, 89. 

Rolled Wheat, 90. 

Rice Cooked in Milk, 90. 

Rice Cooked in Milk with 
Apples, 90. 
Chestnut Dressing for Tur- 
key, 65. 
Chicken, Boiled, 61. 

Creamed, 62. 

Cream, Soup, 29. 

Curry, 61. 

Escalloped, 63. 

Fricasseed, 63. 

Goulach, Hungarian, 63. 

Jelly or Broth, 29. 

Pickled, 64. 



Chicken 

Pie. 61. 

Pressed, 64. 

Roast, 64. 

Roast, with Asparagus, 72. 

Salad, 97. 

Soup, 28. 

Southern Style, 62. 

Stew, Cream, 62. 

with Asparagus, 70. 
Chocolate Bread Pudding, 

103. 
Chops, Lamb, Baked, 56. 

Mutton, Braised, 56. 

Pork, Breaded, 59. ^ 

Veal, Breaded, 49. 
Cocoanut Loaf Cake, 110. 
Codfish Balls, 35. 
Coffee, 121. 
Corn, Canned, 122. 

on the Cob, 82. 

Pudding, 104. 

Soup, 29. 
Cottage Pudding, 103. 
Croquettes, Veal, 50. 
Curry, Chicken, 61. 

Mutton or Veal, 49. 
Custard, Cup, 103. 

Sauce, 107. 
Date Pie, 100. 

Dressing, Chestnut, for Tur- 
key, 65. 

Mayonnaise, 99. 

Tomato, 72. 
Dumpling, Baked Apple, 102. 
Dumplings, Meat with Beans, 

71. 
Fig Pudding, 104. 
Filet, Austrian, 39. 

Roast Beef, 43. 

Roast Beef, Steamed, 47. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 



127 



Fish, Baked, 35. 

Boiled, 35. 

Codfish Balls, 35. 

Escalloped Oysters, 36. 

Escalloped Oysters and 
Rice, 36. 

Escalloped Salmon, 36. 
Fowl, Fried, 6Z. 

with Vermicelli, 70. 

Fruit, Cake, 111. 

Pudding, Steamed, 105. 

Salad, 97. 

Sauces, 119. 
Fruits, Stewed and Baked, 

117. 
Game, 67. 

Partridge, 67. 

Pigeons, a la Venison, 67. 

Pigeons, Roast, 67. 

Pigeons, Roast, Stuffed, 67. 

Venison, Fricasseed, 67. 

German Household Fare, 70. 
Glace, Veal, 51. 
Goose, Roast, 66. 
Goulach, Chicken, Hungar- 
ian, 6Z. 

Lamb, 57. 

Stew, 48. 

Veal, 51. 

Veal with Potatoes, 72. 
Gruel, Oatmeal, 90. 

Ham, Boiled, 69. 

with Cream Gravy, 59. 
Hash, Baked, 39. 
Huckleberry Pudding, 104. 
Icing, Tutti Frutti, 114. 
Indian Pudding, New Eng- 
land, 104. 
Irish Stew, 57. 



Jellied Prunes, 119. , 

Veal, 49. t 

Jelly, Mint, 76. 
Lamb and Mutton, 56. ? 

Lamb, Boiled Leg of, 56. 

Chops, Baked, 56. 

Goulach, 57. 

in Light Gravy, 57. 

Leg of, a la Venison, 58. 

Roast Leg of, 58. 

with Dressing, 57. 

Lamb's Tongues, Boiled, 56. 
Lard, to Render, 122. 
Lemon Pie, 100. 

Souffle, 116. 
Liver, Larded, 50. 
Loaf, Beef, 50. 

Veal, 52. 
Macaroni, French, 83. 

Plain, 85. 

with Cheese, 83. 

with Tomatoes, 83. 
Maple Sauce, 107. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 99. 
Meat Dumplings with 

Beans, 71. 
Meats, 38. 
Mint Jelly, 76. 
Muffins, Breakfast, 92. >? 
Mush, Oatmeal, 90. • 

Mushroom Sauce, 76. 
Mutton, Boiled with 
Potatoes, 69. 

Broth, 30. 

Chops, Braised, 56. 

Curry of, 49. 

with Onions and Potatoes, 
71. 
Noodles, Veal with, 73. 



128 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 



Oatmeal, Gruel, 90. 

Mush, 90. 

Old Fashioned, 89. 
Onions, Baked, 69. 
Oysters, Escalloped, 36. 

Escalloped with Rice, 36. 

Vegetable, 88. 
Partridge, 67. 
Peaches, Dried, 119. 

Stewed, 118. 

Stuffed, 120. 
Pears, Dried, 119. 

Stewed, 117. 
Pea Soup, 30. 
Peas, Green, 83. 
Peppers, Stuffed, 72. 
Pie, Apple, 100. 

Chicken, 61. 

Date, 100. 

Lemon, 100. 

Pigeons, a la Venison, 67. 
V Roast, 67. 

Stuffed Roast, 67. 
Pig's Feet, 59. 

or Calf's Tongue, 
Boiled, 69. 
Plum Pudding, 105. 

Plums, Stewed, 118. 
Pork, Chops, Breaded, 59. 

Roast, 59. 

Tenderloin Roast, 60. 
Potato, Salad, 97. 

Salad with Bacon, 97. 

Salad with Cucumbers, 97. 

Stew, 86. 
Potatoes, Boiled, 81. 

Escalloped, 82. 

Hungarian Stewed, 83. 

in Butter, 85. 

Mashed with Apples, 84. 



Potato 

Sliced with Bacon, 86. 

Sweet, Southern Style, 88. 

with Fried Sausage, 85. 

with Ham, 85. 

with Parsley, 85. 
Preserving, Canning and, 122. 
Prune Pudding, 105. 
Prunes, Jellied, 119. 

Stewed, 120. 
Pudding, Apple Roll, 101. 

Apple Tapioca, 102. 

Baked Apple Dumpling, 
102. 

Bread, 102. 

Brown Betty, 102. 

Cabinet, 103. 

Chocolate Bread, 103. 

Cottage, 103. 

Cup Custard, 103. 

Date, 104. 

Fig, 104. 

Green Corn, 104. 

Huckleberry, 104. 

New England Indian, 104. 

Prune, 105. 

Rice, 105. 

Steamed Fruit, 105. 

Steamed Plum, 105. 

Suet, 106. 
Pudding Sauces, 107. 
Pumpkin, Stewed, 86. 
Puree du Barry, 31. 
Quinces, Stewed, 118. 
Ragout a la Creole, 45. 
Rhubarb Sauce, 119. 
Rice, Boiled, 89. 

Cooked in Milk, 90. 

Cooked in Milk with 
Apples, 90. 

Escalloped Oysters and, 36. 

Pudding, 105. 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 



129 



Rice 
Soup, 31. 

Soup with Green Peas, 31. 
Soup of Rice and Milk, 32. 
Soup with Tomatoes, 31. 
Veal with, 54. 

Roll, Apple, 101. 

Rolls, Cinnamon, 93. 
Light, 94. 

Roulard, Beef, 41. 

Salad, Asparagus, 96. 
Beet, 96. 
Celery, 96. 
Chicken, 97. 
Fruit, 91. 
Potato, 97. 

Potato with Bacon, 97, 
Potato with Cucumbers, 97. 
String Bean, 98. 
Tomato Jelly, 98. 
Waldorf, 98. 

Salmon, Escalloped, 36. 
Loaf, 37. 

Sauce, Apple, 119. 
Caper, 75. 
Cranberry, 119. 
Custard, 107. 
Drawn Butter, 75. 
Egg, 76. 

for Cottage Pudding, 107 
Hard, 107. 
Maple, 107. 
Mushroom, Id. 
Rhubarb, 119. 
Tomato, 76. 
Vanilla, 107. 
White, n. 
Wine, 108. 



Sauerkraut, 86. 

Shortcake, Old Fashioned 
Strawberry, 94. 
Strawberry, 95. 

Souffle, Almond, 115. 
Apple, 115. 
Bread Crumb, 116. 
Lemon, 116. 

Soup, Asparagus, 28. 
Bean, 28. 
Bouillion, 28. 
Chicken, 28. 

Chicken Jelly or Broth, 29. 
Corn, 29. 

Cream of Celery, 30. 
Cream of Chicken, 29. 
Green Pea, 30. 
Mutton Broth, 30. 
of Rice and Milk, 32. 
Puree du Barry, 31. 
Rice, 31. 

Rice with Green Peas, 31. 
Rice with Tomatoes, 31. 
Spanish, 32. 
Tomato, Z2. 
Tomato with Milk, 32. 
Turtle, 33. 
Vegetable, 33. 
Vegetable Oyster, 33. 

Spaghetti, Minnesota with 
Tomato Sauce, 84. 
Veal with, 54. 

Squash, Hubbard, Baked, 80. 
Summer, 88. 

Steak, Panned, 44. 
Rolled, 46. 
Swedish, 48. 



130 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 



Stew, Brown Beef, 42. 
Cream Chicken, 62. 
Goulach, 43. 
Irish, 57. 
Potato, 86. 

Stock, Soup, 27. 

Succotash, 87. 

Summer Squash, 88. 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern 
Style, 88. 

Tapioca, Pudding, Apple, 102. 

Tomato, Dressing, 72. 
Jelly Salad, 98. 
Sauce, 76. 
Soup, 32. 
Soup with Milk, 32. 

Tomatoes, Escalloped, 82. 
Stewed, 86. 
Stuffed, 87. 

Tongue, Boiled, 42. 

Tongues, Lambs', Boiled, 56. 
Sheep's, Braised, 56. 

Turkey, Fricasseed, 65. 
Roast, 65. 

Turtle Soup, 33. 

Vanilla Sauce, 107. 

Veal, Birds, 50. 
Croquettes, 50. 
Curry of, 49. 
Glace. 51. 
Goulach, 51. 
Goulach with Potatoes, 72. 



Veal 
in Caper Gravy and Cream, 

51. 
in Highly Seasoned 

Gravy, 52. 
Jellied, 49. 

Knuckle, with Rice, 49. 
Loaf, 52. 
Pie, 52. 
Roast, 53. 
Roast, Larded, 52. 
Roast Leg of, 50. 
Roast, with Sweet Cream 

Gravy, 53. 
Rolls, 53. 
with Green Peas and 

Dumplings, 72. 
with Noodles, 73. 
with Onions and Potatoes, 

73. 
with Parsley, 54. 
with Rice, 54. 
with Spaghetti, 54. 
with Tomatoes, 54. 

Vegetable, Oysters, 88. 
Oyster Soup, 33. 
Soup, 33. 

Vegetables, 78. 

Venison, Fricasseed, 67. 

Vermicelli, Fowl with, 70. 

Wheat, Rolled, 90. 

Wine Sauce, 108 . 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 131 

SPECIAL RECIPES 



132 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

SPECIAL RECIPES 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 133 

SPECIAL RECIPES 



134 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

SPECIAL RECIPES 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 135 

SPECIAL RECIPES 



136 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

SPECIAL RECIPES 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 137 

SPECIAL RECIPES 



138 CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 

SPECIAL RECIPES 



THE CALORIC COOKSTOVES 

are 

Manufactured under the following Canadian and 
American Patents 

Canadian Patent No. 114890. Issued Nov. 3,1908 

Canadian Patent No. 114524. Issued Oct. 13,1908 

United States Patent No. 898527. Issued Sept. 5, 1908 

United States Patent No. 899084. Issued Sept. 22, 1908 

United States Patent No. 919494. Issued April 27, 1909 

United States Patent No. 975690. Issued Nov. 15, 1910 

United States Patent No. 484888. Issued March 22, 1909 

United States Patent No. 610308. Issued Feb. 23, 1911 

United States Patent No. 1018414. Issued Feb. 27. 1912 

Other Patents Pending 

Trade Mark Registered Nov. 27th, 1906. No. 57698 

Infringements on our patents and patent rights 
will be prosecuted 




^Se SAhtc Soitffiany 



Note This: Professor Charles Barnard, the highest authority in 
America, who has charge of the Housekeeping Experi- 
ment Station at Darien, Conn., has used a Caloric three 
years and he recommends the Caloric Cookstove — see 
Bulletin No. 14, issued February, 1912, entitled "House- 
keeping Efficiency." 

Note This: An authority in a recent issue of Century Maga- 
zine says : "The three great scientific inventions of this 
century are Wireless Telegraphy, Aviation and the Fire- 
less Cookstove (not cooker). 

The Caloric is the only Fireless Cookstove in the world. 



RETURN 
TO -♦ 



MARIAN KOSHLAND BIOSCIENCE AND 
NATURAL RESOURCE LIBRARY 

2101 Valley Life Sciences BIdg. 642-2531 

LOAN PERIOD 

7 DAYS 



ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS. 



DUE AS STAMPED BELOW, 




FORM NO. DD 8 
24M 4-00 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
Berkeley, California 94720-6500 



U.C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES 



III 



