LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




Q0D0E33T13H 






V 












"-..^^^ 







*bv" 



^°-^^. 





















^^-n^ 






• »' «-?) 



1*-°' Q* 











1 '^'^ 






"' J 








♦ -^^ 

















^oV" 



















"iy' < 




./V 




^^0^ 



?5°^ 






January 1 -\ 

Caviar on Toast .'-A,'"^ 

Clear Soup ^ cA 

Broiled Smelts Maitre d 'Hotel Butter 

Roast Goose, Apple Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes String Beans 

Tomato Jelly Mayonnaise .^ 

Plum Pudding, Wine Sauce 
Ice Cream 



January 2 



5}?' TOMATO JELLY 

One can of tomatoes, box of gelatine, slice of onion, sprig of parsley, bay leaf, 
blade of mace, 3 cloves, 3 peppercorns, teaspoonful of salt. Cook tomatoes with 
seasoning until tender enough to strain. Soak gelatine about 20 minutes in enough 
cold water to cover it. Pour strained tomatoes over the gelatine till dissolved. Put 
in individual moulds or in a ring and set away to cool. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise dressing. 



January 3 



\ 



Cream of Badey Soup 

Boiled Salmon Egg Sauce 

Broiled Chops 

Puree of Chestnuts Peas .^ 

Lettuce Salad Cream Cheese ^ 

Fruit Salad 



January 4 



CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP 
Two tablespoonfuls of barley, 1 pint of milk, I pint of white stock, yolks of 
2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Scald the barley, drain, and cover with fresh boiling 
water, boil for 3 hours ; strain. Put the milk and stock on to boil, add the barley, 
salt and pepper. Beat the yolks light, put them in the soup tureen, pour over the 
boiling soup, and serve. .-^ 



January 5 

Clam Broth 

Whipped Cream 

Roast Chicken 

Boiled Rice Spinacl 

Salmon Mayonnaise 

Lemon Meringue Pie 



January 6 

LEMON FILLING FOR PIES 

Yolks of 3 eggs, yi pound of sugar, white of I egg, juice of 2 lemons, 2 ounces 
of butter, grated rind of 1 lemon. Beat up eggs, melt butter and sugar together, then 
add juice and rind, then the eggs. Stir all on fire until as thick as cream. Put in pie 
crust, make a meringue of the whites, and brown in oven. 

January 7 

Clear Soup 

Roast Leg of Mutton 

Currant Jelly 

Potato Croquettes Carrots 

Celery Mayonnaise 

Caramel Custard 



January 8 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 
Three eggs, 1 pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, I tablespoonful of boiling 
water, ^ cup of sugar, pinch of salt. Put sugar in an omelet pan, stir until melted 
and a light brown, then add the boiling water. Pour into half the milk, which has 
been warmed. Then beat the eggs a little only, add to them the salt and the rest of 
the milk. Pour all together and bake in a buttered pudding dish in a pan of water 
until stiff. Turn out when cold, pour a caramel sauce over it, and serve with 
whipped cream. 



January 9 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Oyster Patties 

Veal Cutlet 

Mashed Potatoes Spinach 

Lettuce Salad Cream Cheese 

Chocolate Souffle 



January 10 



PASTRY 

One pound of flour, 4 tablespoonfuls of lard, cup of cold water, 8 tablespoonfuls 
of butter, I teaspoonful of salt. Rub flour, salt and lard together until very fine, then 
add cold water, mixing with a cold knife. Put lightly on a floured board ; roll out, 
spread with butter and roll up ; beat, roll out, spread with butter, roll up, and con- 
tinue until aU the butter is used up. Roll up and put in ice chest. When ready to 
use, roll out thin, and cut into any shape required. If treated lightly and kept very 
cold it can not fail. 



January 11 

JuHenne Soup 

Fillet of Flounders Tomato Sauce 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce 

Rice Croquettes String Beans 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Brown Betty, Hard Sauce 



January 12 



BROWN BETTY 
Butter a pudding dish well, then take fine bread crumbs and line the dish well. 
Cut the apples in thin slices and fill the dish, putting in every once in a while a little 
butter, sugar and cinnamon. On the top put buttered bread crumbs. Bake from 
^ to 1 hour. 



January 13 

Clam Broth 

Whipped Cream 

Egg Timbals, Cream Sauce 

Broiled Squabs Lettuce Salad 

Chocolate Eclairs 



January 14 

EGG TIMBAL 
Five eggs, I tablespoonful of flour, I teaspoonful of salt, 1 pint of milk. Beat 
whites and yolks separately. Boil a lump of butter the size of an egg in nearly all of 
the milk. Rub the flour and salt smooth in the rest of the milk. Pour all the ingre- 
dients together in a buttered mould or in small timbal tins. Bake in a moderate oven 
1 5 or 20 minutes. 



January 15 

Chicken Soup 

Broiled Sea Bass Cucumbers 

Roast Beef 

Cauliflov^^er Potatoes 

Celery Mayonnaise Cheese 

Rice Pudding Strawberry Preserves 



January 16 

SCALLOPED EGGS 

Chop up (not fine) some hard-boiled eggs. Put in a well-buttered dish a layer 
of.^egg, salt and pepper, cover with a cream sauce; continue until dish is full; have 
sauce on top. Sprinkle with bread crumbs, cheese and butter ; brown 



in oven. 



January 17 

Cream of Oyster Soup 

Lobster Cutlets, Cardinal Sauce 

Roast Saddle of Mutton Currant Jelly 

Peas Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Chocolate Sauce 

January 18 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

One-fourth of a cake of Baker's chocolate, I cup of sugar, ^ cup of milk, 

1 tablespoonful of butter, I teaspoonful of vanilla. Put chocolate, sugar and milk 

on to boil, and stir steadily until all are melted. Add butter, boil 10 minutes, 
add vanilla, and serve immediately. 

January 1 9 

Scalloped Eggs 

Chicken a la Maryland 

Boiled Rice Spinach 

Raspberry Tarts 



January 20 



CHICKEN A LA MARYLAND 

Cut the chicken as for fricassee, and skin. Put in a pan, cover with boiling 
water, and simmer slowly for 20 minutes. Remove from the pan, dry, and season 
with salt and pepper. Roll in crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat till brown. Arrange on a platter and pour a white sauce over it. 



January 21 

Puree of Peas 

Boiled Salmon, Sauce HoUandaise 

Crown Roast of Lamb 

Potato Croquettes Peas 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Chocolate Parfait 



January 22 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Half cup of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, yolks of 2 eggs, % saltspoonful of 
cayenne pepper, juice of ^ lemon, ^ cup of boiling water. Rub the butter to a 
cream in a small bowl with a wooden spoon. Add the yolks one at a time, and 
beat well ; then add lemon juice, salt and pepper. About five minutes before serv- 
ing add the boiling water. Place the bowl in a saucepan of boiling water and stir 
rapidly until it thickens like custard. Pour the sauce around the meat or fish. 

January 23 

Clear Soup 
Salmon Croquettes, Sauce Tartare 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes Peas 

Cold Tongue Lettuce Salad 

Cream Puffs, Chocolate Sauce 



January 24 



CREAM PUFFS 
Boil together % pint of water and ^ of a cup of butter ; while boiling stir in 
1 % cups of flour (scant). Let it cool sufficiently not to cook the eggs, 5 of which 
are to be well beaten and the whole well mixed together ; add also a little salt. 
Drop on tins, a spoonful in a place, and bake in a hot oven from 20 to 30 minutes. 
Fill with cream. 



January 25 

Caviar Canape 

Consomme 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel Cucumbers 

Fillet of Beef a Jardiniere 

Roast Squabs Celery Salad 

Chocolate Ice Cream 



January 26 



SALTED ALMONDS 

Shell and blanch I pound of almonds, /. e., drop into a vessel of boiling water 
to loosen the skin, when, in a few minutes, the almonds can be pushed out white. 
Dry thoroughly in a towel. Put into a large pan a piece of butter the size of a small 
chestnut, and when melted turn the almonds into it, stirring rapidly until every nut is 
shining with butter. Then sprinkle over them a large cooking -spoonful of salt, mixing 
well. Put the pan in the bottom of the oven and stir every few minutes until the 
almonds are a light brown. 

January 27 

Tomato Soup 

Fish Timbal 

Chops 

Mashed Potatoes Spinach 

Roast Chicken Lettuce Salad 

Apple Fritters 



January 28 



TOMATO SOUP 
One can of tomatoes, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 
tablespoonful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of chopped onions, I tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, I tablespoonful of cornstarch, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 4 cloves. Put the toma- 
toes, water, sugar, salt and cloves on to boil in a porcelain stewpan, and, when it 
bubbles, put in the onion and parsley. Fry 5 minutes, being careful not to burn it. 
Add the cornstarch, and when well mixed stir it into the tomato. Let simmer 10 
minutes. Strain and serve with boiled rice or croutons. 



January 29 

Vermicelli Soup 

Fried Fish, Sauce Tartare 

Roast Lamb Currant Jelly 

Potatoes au Gratin String Beans 

Vegetable Salad 

Rice a rimperatrice, Chocolate Sauce 



January 30 



RICE A L'IMPERATRICE 

Take a scant % cup of rice and put in a double boiler with 1 pint of milk, 
sugar and a pinch of salt. Let it boil until creamy. When done, add ^ of a box 
of gelatine soaked in cold water. Put away to cool. When cold, beat hard, and 
add to it 1 pint of cream whipped. Put in a form to cool. Turn out, decorate 
with whipped cream, and serve with hot chocolate sauce. 

January 31 

Corn Soup 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce 

Rice Croquettes Stewed Celery 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Floating Island 



February 1 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 
Make a rich cup cake and bake in jelly cake tins. Make a filling with % cake of 
Baker's chocolate put in a saucepan with /^ pint of milk ; let it dissolve on the fire, stirring 
constantly. When melted, add a pinch of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar and I teaspoonful 
of cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk. Stir until quite thick, then take from the fire and add 
1 teaspoonful of molasses and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. When cold, spread between the layers. 

ICING 
One-quarter cake of Baker's chocolate put in a saucepan with I tablespoonful of boiling 
water. Melt over hot water, then add % cup of confectioner's sugar and spread on top of cake. 



February 2 

Broiled Sardines 

Egg Vermicelli 

Beefsteak 

French Fried Potatoes Cauliflower 

Cheese Guava Jelly 

Toasted Crackers 
Wine Jelly, Whipped Cream 



February 3 

VANILLA JUMBLES 

One large cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 3 scant cups of 
flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Mix as for cup cake. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a 
hot buttered pan, and bake until brown around the edges. 



February 4 

Grape Fruit 

Consomme au Printemps 

Fillet of Flounders, Sauce Hollandaise 

Boiled Turkey, Oyster Sauce 
Potatoes String Beans 

Celery Mayonnaise 
Cafe Mousse 



February 5 



CAFE MOUSSE 

Four tablespoonfuls of coffee essence, I pint of cream whipped, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Beat cream very stiff, add coffee and sugar. Put in a form, pack in salt 
and ice, let it stand about 2 hours. Turn out and serve with whipped cream 
around it. 



February 6 

Cream of Chicken Soup 

Roast Ribs of Beef 

Rice Croquettes Spinach 

Jellied Chicken 

Lettuce Salad 

Apple Pie Cream 



February 7 



STUFFED EGGS 

Hard-boil 6 eggs. Cut in halves lengthwise. Take out the yolks, and mash 
with 1 tablespoonful of melted butter, ^^ teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, 
and 3 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped chicken, ham or tongue. If too dry, add 
more butter. Return to the whites. Serve with hot cream sauce or on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 

February 8 

Julienne Soup 

Croquettes of Halibut, Sauce Tartare 

Filet Mignon 

French Peas Potatoes 

Tomato and Lettuce Salad 

Baked Custard 

February 9 

FISH CROQUETTES 

Take cold boiled fish, mix with a thick cream sauce, let it stand till cold. 
Make into oblong shapes not too large. Roll first in bread crumbs, then in egg, 
and then in crumbs. Fry in hot fat to a delicate brown. 



February 10 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Roast Leg of Lamb, Currant Jelly 

Potato Souffle Cauliflower 

Chicken Croquettes Lettuce Salad 

Apple Charlotte 

February 11 

POTATO SOUFFLE 

Two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, and stir into it 2 tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter. Beat to a white cream before adding anything else, then add 2 eggs whipped 
very light and I teacupful of cream or milk. Salt to taste, beat all well, pour into a 
deep dish, and bake in a quick oven until brown. 

February 12 

Raw Oysters 

Chicken Soup 

Fish Baked in Green Peppers 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 

Potatoes Stewed Celery 

Jellied Tongue Lettuce 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Chocolate Sauce 

February 13 

FISH BAKED IN GREEN PEPPERS 

Take some cold boiled fish. Mix with a cream sauce, season well, put into the 
peppers, which have been cut on top and the insides removed. Cover the fish 
with bread crumbs and small piece of butter. Put in oven to brown. 



February 14 

Bisque of Clams 

Beefsteak 

Potatoes au Gratin Stewed Tomatoes 

Lettuce Salad 

Creema Cheese Balls 

Chocolate Blanc Mange Whipped Cream 



February 15 

CREAM CHEESE BALLS 

Take a cream cheese, mix with I green pepper chopped fine, 6 chopped 
walnuts, salt and pepper to taste. Make like butter balls. Pile in the center of 
lettuce leaves, and serve with French dressing. 



February 16 

Barley Soup 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce 

Macaroni au Gratin Spinach 

Lettuce Salad 

Coffee Jelly Whipped Cream 



February 17 



EGGS IN ROLLS 

Take some round bread biscuits, cut the top off and remove the crumb. 
Butter it well inside and grate cheese in it, then drop in a raw egg, put some 
butter on top and some grated cheese, a Httle salt. Put into a hot oven until 
the cheese browns. 



February 18 

Vermicelli Soup 

Roast Lamb Currant Jelly 

Potato Souffle Stewed Tomatoes with Rice 

Turkey Croquettes Lettuce Salad 

Baked Custard 

February 19 

NUT JUMBLES 

Half a pound of butter (less yi tablespoonful), yi pound of light brown 
sugar, ^ pound of flour (less a tablespoonful), 2 eggs beaten together, I small 
cup of nut meat. Drop off a spoon on buttered pans a little distance apart. A 
teaspoonful of sherry improves them, or rose water. 

February 20 

Mutton Soup 

Fried Smelts Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Braised Sweetbreads Peas 

Roast Guinea Fowl Lettuce Salad 

Orcinge Pudding 



February 21 



ORANGE JELLY 

Half a box of gelatine, ^ cup of cold water, I cup of boiling water, juice 
of 1 lemon, I cup of sugar, 1 pint of orange juice. Soak the gelatine in cold 
water until soft. Add the boiling water, the lemon juice, sugar and orange juice. 
Stir until the sugar is dissolved, and strain. Serve in orange baskets. 



February 22 

Julienne Soup 

Boiled Salmon, Sauce Hollandaise 

Crown Roast Lamb 

Mashed Potatoes String Beans 

Celery Mayonnaise 

Strawberry Tarts 



February 23 



MARSHMALLOW CAKES 

Make a rich cup cake, bake in square pans about 2 inches deep. When baked, turn out on a cloth to 
get cool. When cold, cut in squares about 2 inches, which split in half and fill with the following mixture, 
also spread the top with it and put half a marshmallow on each cake : 

MARSHMALLOW MIXTURE 

Half pound of marshmallows, whites of four eggs, 16 small tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, I tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Put the marshmallows in a double boiler, breaking them small. Add to them as little 
boiling water as possible, simply enough to help them melt to a paste ; stir them frequently. When well melted 
and smooth, add them gradually to the whites, which have been beaten very light with sugar added to the whites 
gradually. Also add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

February 24 

Chicken Soup 

Broiled Oysters 

Fillet of Beef Mignon, Bearnaise Sauce 

Stuffed Potatoes Cauliflower 

Tomato Jelly Mayonnaise 

Mont Blanc 



February 25 



MONT BLANC 
Put 1 pound large French chestnuts, pour boiling water on them so as to remove 
the inside skin. Put on to boil with plenty of boiling water ; add 1 teaspoonful of 
salt. When tender, remove from the fire and mash with a little cream ; sweeten and 
flavor with vanilla. Beat up ^ pint of cream and put in the center of the dish. 
Put the chestnut mixture through a potato ricer and put around the cream. 



February 26 

Chicken Soup 

Roast Beef 

Potatoes Spinach 

Cold Tongue Lettuce Salad 

Apple Tart, Cream 



February 27 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Bake some nice-shaped potatoes for about an hour and a half, then cut off 
the tops and take out the potato without breaking the skin. Mix it in a warm 
bowl with a little butter, boiled milk, salt, pepper and chopped parsley or celery 
tops. When they are well mixed, return to their skins and serve. 



February 28 

Puree of Peas 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel Cucumber Salad 

Roast Ham 

Potatoes Spinach 

Chicken Salad Cream Cheese 

Frozen Pineapple 



February 29 



PUREE OF PEAS 

One quart of green peas, I quart of water, I pint of milk, Y?, teaspoonful of salt, % ScJt- 
spoonful of pepper, Yz teaspoonful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour. 
Put the peas into I pint of boiling water and cook until soft. Mash them in the water in 
which they were boiled and through a strainer, gradually adding a pint of hot water, which 
will help to separate the pulp from the skins. Put on to boil again. Cook the butter and 
flour in a small pan, being careful not to let it brown. Stir it into the soup. Add salt, sugar, 
pepper and the hot milk, using milk enough to make it the consistency you prefer. 



March 1 

Consomme 

Broiled Chicken 

Rice Stewed Celery 

Lettuce Salad 

Fruit Jelly, Whipped Cream 



March 2 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Broiled Chops 

Braised Carrots Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Roast Chicken Lettuce Salad 

Cream Puffs, Chocolate Sauce 



March 3 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 
Half can of tomatoes, 1 quart of milk, ^A, cup of butter, 1 tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, I teaspoonful of salt, ^ saltspoonful of pepper. Stew the tomatoes until soft 
enough to strain easily, boil the milk in a double boiler. Melt I tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan, and when it bubbles add the cornstarch ; add enough hot milk 
to make the mixture pour easily. Stir it carefully into the rest of the milk and let boil 
ten minutes. Add the remainder of the butter in small pieces and stir until well 
mixed. Add salt and pepper and the strained tomatoes. 



March 4 



Clear Soup 

Scalloped Oysters 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 

Fried Sweet Potatoes Puree of Peas 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad Cream Cheese 

Rice Pudding Strawberry Preserves 



March 5 

GINGERBREAD 

One cup of brown sugar, 1 cup of butter, 2 cups of molasses, 1 cup of sweet 
milk, 5 cups of flour, 5 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful of 
ginger, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful of nutmeg. Beat butter, sugar and 
molasses together, add yolks and spices, then flour and baking powder, beaten whites, 
and lastly the milk. 

March 6 

Juhenne Soup 

Salmon Steak Cucumbers 

Chicken Pie 

Potatoes String Beans 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Apple Fritters, Custard Sauce 

March 7 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

Mix very smooth together I quart of flour and I quart of milk, then add the 
beaten yolks of four eggs and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and lastly the stiffly beaten whites. 
Put some drippings in a roasting pan in the oven. When very hot pour in the 
batter and bake for yi hour. 

March 8 

Raw Clams 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Roast Beef Yorkshire Pudding 

Boiled Rice Salsify Cakes 

Cold Asparagus, French Dressing 

Lemon Meringue Pudding 



March 9 

SOUTHERN BISCUITS 

Sift 1 pint of flour with 1 teaspoonful of salt and ^ teaspoonful of soda. 
Rub into flour a lump of butter the size of an egg, then mix with buttermilk or 
sour milk. Work into soft dough, roll out, cut, and bake in quick oven. 

March 10 

Oyster Soup 

Roast Lamb Currant Jelly 

Stuffed Potatoes Peas 

Cold Tongue Lettuce Salad 

Caramel Custard 

March 11 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Half a can of tomatoes, 1 cup of water, 2 cloves, 2 allspice, 2 peppercorns, 
2 sprigs of parsley, 1 tablespoonful of chopped onions, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
I heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch, ^ tablespoonful of salt, ^ saltspoonful of 
pepper. Put the tomato, water, spice and parsley on to boil in a granite saucepan ; 
fry the onion in the butter till brown, add the cornstarch, stir all into the tomato. 
Simmer 10 minutes, add the salt and pepper and a little cayenne. 

March 1 2 

Vermicelli Soup 

Veal Cutlet, Tomato Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Rice Croquettes 

Roast Guinea Fowl Lettuce Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Chocolate Sauce 



March 13 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

One pint of hot mashed potatoes, I tablespoonful of butter, j^ saltspoonful of 
salt, Yn teaspoonful of celery salt, a few drops of onion juice, yolk of I egg. Mix 
all together but the egg, till very light. When slightly cool add the yolk. Rub 
through a sieve, and add I teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Make into round balls, 
roll in crumbs, then egg, again in crumbs, fry in smoking hot lard 1 minute. 

March 14 

Macaroni Soup 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce 

Potato Croquettes Asparagus Tips 

Brown Betty, Hard Sauce 

March 15 

Chicken Soup 

Lobster Cutlets, Sauce Tartare 

Roast Saddle of Mutton Currant Jelly 

Peas Potatoes 

Tomato Jelly Salad Cheese 

Cafe Mousse 

March 16 

WHITE VEGETABLE SOUP 
Two pints of vegetables of all kinds cut up small. Boil them up in 2 quarts of 
water and a little salt. When boiled, blend 2 tablespoonfuls of flour with a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, add I pint of cream or 3 pints of milk. Boil all together, 
and just before serving add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with a little cream. 



March 17 

White Vegetable Soup 

Steak 

Saratoga Potatoes 

Corn 

Lettuce Salad Cream Cheese 

Hot Bread Pudding, Hard Sauce 



March 18 

FRUIT RISSOLES 

Take some delicate pie crust, roll out thin and even, seeing there are no spots 
where it will break. Cut it in squares about 5 inches. Place a spoonful of jam in 
the center and fold them together, wetting the edges with the white of an egg so that 
they will stick. Fry in boiling hot lard until a delicate brown. Sift powdered sugar 
over them and serve on a napkin. 

March 19 

Chicken Soup 

Broiled Chops 

String Beans Mashed Potatoes 

Cold Tongue Lettuce Salad 

Fruit Rissoles 

March 20 

MAPLE SUGAR CAKE 

Make a rich cup cake and bake in jelly cake tins. When cold, fill with the 
following mixture : % pound of maple sugar melted with a Uttle boiling water. Let 
it boil until it strings, then add it slowly to the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs. Beat 
till very stiff. Put between the layers and on top. 



March 21 

Consomme au Printemps 
Broiled Shad Cucumbers 

Roast Chicken, Giblet Sauce 

Creamed Cauliflower Potatoes 

Waldorf Salad Cheese Crackers 

Chocolate Ice Cream 



March 22 

TO KEEP CAKE FRESH 

Put in the cake tin a piece of fresh bread when you put in the cake. When 
the bread dries, put in a fresh piece. By doing this the cake will keep fresh a 
long time. 



March 23 

Puree of Peas 

Croutons 

Beefsteak Pie 

Mashed Potatoes Spinach 

Cold Chicken Lettuce Salad 

Floating Island 



March 24 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

One cup of sugar, heaping tablespoonful of butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 2 ^ 
cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted with the flour. Rub the butter 
and sugar together, beat in the yolks, add ^ saltspoonful of salt, then the beaten 
whites, the flour, and lastly the milk. Bake in a buttered dish about ^ hour. 



March 25 

Plain Soup 

Broiled Mackerel 

Cucumbers 

Chicken a la Maryland 

Peas Potatoes Saute 

Cottage Pudding 



March 26 



MUFFINS COOKED ON THE GRIDDLE 

One pint of flour, 1 pint of milk, 1 egg, butter the size of ^ an egg, 1 ^ tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in muHin rings on not too hot a griddle. 



March 27 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Boiled Halibut, Egg Sauce 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Beans 

Cream Puffs 



March 28 



SWEET POTATOES, BAKED 

Cut in slices not too thick some cold boiled sweet potatoes. Put in a flat 
buttered dish a layer of potatoes, some butter and a little granulated sugar. Continue 
until the dish is full, having butter and sugar on top. Put a little water over it (about 
^ of a cup), put in oven until brown. 



March 29 

Cheese Souffle 

Steak 

Sweet Potatoes, Baked Spinach 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Cut-up Fruit 



March 30 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Two table spoonfuls of butter, I heaping tablespoonful of flour, y^ cup of milk, 
I cup of grated cheese, 3 eggs, }^ saltspoonful of salt, a speck of cayenne pepper. 
Put the butter in a saucepan. When hot, add the flour and stir until smooth, not 
brown, then add the well-beaten yolks of eggs and the cheese. Set away to cool. 
When cold, add the stiffly beaten whites, turn into a buttered dish and bake from 20 
to 30 minutes. Serve immediately. 

March 31 

Vermicelli Soup 

Roast Lamb, Cranberry Sauce 

Sweet Potato Croquettes Peas 

Lettuce Salad 

Cheese 

Apple Pie 

April 1 

CORN FRITTERS 

Grate the corn, and allow 1 ^ eggs to every cupful. I tablespoonful of milk or 
cream. Beat the eggs well, add the corn by degrees, beating very hard, salt to taste, 
yi tablespoonful of butter to every cup of corn. Stir in the milk and add just enough 
flour to hold them together, about yi tablespoonful to every egg. Fry in hot lard. 
Add a little more flour or milk if needed. 



April 2 

Chicken Gumbo Soup 

Fish in Entree Dishes 

Chicken Fricassee Boiled Rice 

Corn Fritters Stewed Tomatoes 

Fruit Salad 



April 3 

MOCK CRAB SANDWICHES 

Four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of anchovy sauce, ^ teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little salt, a good sprinkling of 
cayenne. Mix all together and spread thin on slices of bread. 



April 4 

Consomme Royal 

Crown Roast Lamb 

Mashed Potatoes Macaroni au Gratin 

Chicken Croquettes 

Salad Asparagus Tips 

Raspberry Tarts 



April 5 



SAUCE SABAYOU 

Beat until very light the yolks of 3 eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. Add by degrees a large glass of white wine. Place this in a double boiler, 
stir hard until it comes to a boil and is very light. Serve. 



April 6 

Cream of Chicken Soup 

Roast Beef 

String Beans Roast Potatoes 

Endive Salad 

Boiled Suet Pudding 

Sauce Sabayou 



il 7 



BOILED SUET PUDDING 

One cup of chopped suet, 1 cup of molasses, I cup of seeded raisins, 1 cup of 
milk, 3 cups of flour, butter the size of an egg, 1 teaspoonful of soda, I teaspoonful of 
cloves, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. Boil in a form ^ hour. 



April 8 

Clam Soup 

Veal Cutlet, Cream Sauce 

Spinach Mashed Potatoes 

Cold Tongue Celery Salad 

Rice Pudding 

Preserves 



April 9 



CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM 
Half a box of gelatine, 1 cup of milk scalded, 1 cup of powdered sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, Y^ cake of Baker's chocolate dissolved in a little milk, 1 pint of 
cream whipped. Soak the gelatine in enough cold water to cover it. Scald the 
milk and pour over the soaked gelatine. Stir until dissolved, whip the cream, add 
sugar when the gelatine mixture begins to thicken, stir the cream in lightly, add 
vanilla, and put away to cool in a mould wet with cold water. Turn out and serve 
with whipped cream. 



April 10 

Canapes of Sardines 

Consomme 

Roast Capon 

*eas New Potatoes Fresh Tomato Salad 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream 



April 1 1 

HAMBURG CREAM 

Five eggs, ^ pound sifted sugar, 2 lemons. Beat the yolks with the juice and 
grated rind of the lemons, also the sugar. Put it on the fire and let it come to the boil. 
Then add lastly the whites of the eggs beaten very stiff. Stir all well together, take 
immediately off the fire and put in glasses. 



April 12 

Broiled Sardines on Toast 

Lamb Chops 

*eas Potatoes Creamed Lettuce Salad 

Cheese 

Hamburg Cream 



April 1 3 



FRENCH HASH 
One pound of meat cut in dice, I tablespoonful of chopped onion, 1 table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful of butter, I tablespoonful of flour, 
1 wineglassful of white wine, 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, yolks of 2 eggs. Fry 
onion and parsley in butter until a delicate brown. Moisten with >^ pint of stock, 
add flour, then meat, pepper and salt. After removing from fire add yolks, lemon 
juice and wine. 



April 14 

Grape Fruit 

Vermicelli Soup 

Roast Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce 

String Beans Potatoes 

Tomato Salad Cream Cheese Balls 

Coffee Ice Cream 



April 15 

Chicken Soup 

Steak 

Fried Egg Plant French Fried Potatoes 

Jellied Chicken 

Lettuce Salad 

Fruit Salad 



April 16 



BLACK BEAN SOUP 
Wash and pick over 1 pint of black beans. Put in saucepan with 2 quarts of 
water (cold), I onion, 2 cloves, pinch of marjoram, a little thyme, 2 sprigs of parsley. 
Simmer slowly till the beans can be rubbed through a sieve. Add 1 quart of strong 
beef stock. Boil all together I hour. Put in each plate, before putting in the soup, 
some slices of hard-boiled egg and lemon. 

April 17 

Black Bean Soup 
Broiled Shad, Roe Sauce 

Chicken Pie 

Spinach Potatoes 

Blanc Mange, Custard Sauce 



April 18 



ROE SAUCE 

Boil the roe until soft, then mash, being careful there is no skin with it. Then 
stir it into a rich cream sauce. Serve it with broiled or baked shad. 



April 19 

Vermicelli Soup 

Baked Blue Fish, Sauce HoUandaise 

Fillet of Beef Roast a Jardiniere 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Celery 

Cream Puffs, Hot Chocolate Sauce 



April 20 



SALMON LOAF 
One pound of salmon or any other kind of cold fish. Chop up fine and mix 
with Yi cup of bread crumbs, yolks of 4 well-beaten eggs, chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper, lastly the beaten whites. Bake in a well-buttered bread tin for about 
^ hour. Serve with a cream sauce. 

April 21 

Cream Pea Soup 

Salmon Loaf, Cream Sauce 

Broiled Chicken 

Peas Potatoes 

Strawberries Cream 



April 22 



CRUSTADES 

Take a cube of bread, each side being 4 inches. Cut out the inside, leaving 
a shell Yt, inch thick. Butter well on all sides. Put in oven until a delicate 
brown. 



April 23 

Chicken Soup 

Boned Shoulder of Mutton, Stuffed 

Currant Jelly 

String Beans Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 
Wine Jelly, Whipped Cream 



April 24 



CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH ICING 
Part 1 
One cup of brown sugar, Yz cup of butter, Yz cup of milk, 3 yolks and 1 white of egg beaten very light 
together, 2 cups of flour sifted, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, I teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir this into Part 2. 

Part 2 
One cup of brown sugar, 1 cup of grated chocolate, ^ cup of milk. Let dissolve on stove, but not boil ; 
stir occasionally. ICING 

One and one-half cups of sugar, ^ cup of water. Boil until it threads, then add slowly to the stiffly 
beaten whites of 3 eggs. Beat all together until cool. Flavor with vanilla. Spread between and on top of 
the layers. Make three layers. 

April 25 

Consomme a la Reine 

Broiled Shad Cucumbers 

Roast Chicken, Cranberry Sauce 

Rice and Tomatoes Mashed Potatoes 

Chicory Salad 

Cheese 

Vanilla Ice Cream Strawberries 



April 26 

Lobster Cutlets, Anchovy Sauce 

Creamed Chicken in Rice 

String Beans 

Cold Asparagus, French Dressing 

Rice a rimperatrice, Chocolate Sauce 



April 27 

HOW TO CLEAR SOUP 

To 2 quarts of stock add ^ pound of lean beef chopped fine. Stir until it 
comes to the boil. Draw from the fire and simmer gently for 30 minutes, then strain 
twice through a fine cloth. 

April 28 

Cream of Barley Soup 

Beef Pie 

Peas Potatoes 

Roast Guinea Fowl Lettuce 

Stewed Rhubarb, Custard Sauce 



April 29 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Four tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, I quart of milk, ^ cake of Baker's chocolate, 
1 Yz cups of sugar, yolks of 3 eggs. Break the chocolate in the milk, place on the 
fire and heat to boiling. Then remove from the fire and add sugar and cornstarch 
mixed with yolks, and keep stirring until thick. Remove from fire, add vanilla, and 
pour in baking dish. Use whites for meringue. Put in oven until light brown. To 
be eaten cold. 



April 30 

Chicken Soup 

Baked Blue Fish, Sauce HoUandaise 

Veal Cutlet 

Spinach New Potatoes 

Tomato Salad 

Cream Cheese 

Chocolate Pudding, Foamy Sauce 



May 1 



FOAMY SAUCE 

Quarter cup of butter, % cup of powdered sugar, whites of 2 eggs, I gill of 
boiling water, 1 gill of sherry. Beat butter and sugar together until very light. Add 
the beaten whites of 2 eggs, beat all hard. Add 1 gill of sherry, and lastly 1 gill 
of boiling water. Serve immediately. 

May 2 

Bisque of Clam 

Roast Lamb Currant Jelly 

Young Beets Potatoes 

Asparagus, Sauce HoUandaise 

Omelet Souffle and Jam 



May 3 



BISQUE OF CLAM 

One dozen clams not opened, ^ pint of boiling water, 1 pint of boiling milk, 
1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, pepper and a pinch of cayenne. 
Take the clams and scrub the shells. Put them in a pot with the boiling water. The 
shells will open soon. Remove the clams. Press in a lemon-squeezer so that the 
juice will go into the liquor of the clams (first, of course, having removed the shells). 
Mix butter and flour together, and add by degrees the boiling milk. When thick add 
it to the clam juice, season, and just before serving add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 



May 4 



Clear Soup 
Filet Soles, Sauce Tartare 
Lamb Chops 
Mashed Potatoes 

Chicken Croquettes 

Lettuce Salad 

Strawberry Shortcake 



eas 



May 5 



Julienne Soup 
Roast Beef 
Stuffed Peppers 

Rice Pudding 
Strawberry Jam Cream 



Potatoes 



May 6 



STUFFED PEPPERS 

Six green peppers, I onion finely chopped, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 table- 
spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, yd cup of brown sauce, 7 tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs. Cook onion in butter 3 minutes, add mushrooms and then brown sauce and 
bread crumbs. Cool the mixture. Sprinkle the pepper with salt after scooping out 
the center. Fill with mixture, cover with buttered bread crumbs, and bake 1 minutes. 
Serve on toast. 



May 7 



Raw Clams 

Vermicelli Soup 

Shad Roe Croquettes Cucumbers 

Filet Mignon Mushrooms 

String Beans New Potatoes 

Broiled Chicken Tomato Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream Strawberries 



May 8 



SHAD ROE CROQUETTES 

Boil a pair of roes until tender, mix with a rich cream sauce. Set aside to cool. 
Make into balls, roll in crumbs, then in egg and then in crumbs. Fry in hot lard 
until a nice brown. 



May 9 

Puree of Peas Croutons 

Steak 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Spaghetti au Gratin New Carrots 

Cold Tongue Lettuce Salad 

Cafe Mousse 



May 10 



CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 
Half pint of milk, 2 ounces of Baker's chocolate, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 4 eggs. Put the milk in a double boiler and 
place on the fire. Beat the butter to a soft cream, and beat the flour into it. Gradually pour 
the hot milk on this, stirring all the time. Return to the fire and cook 6 minutes. Put the 
chocolate, sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of water in a small pan over a hot fire, stir until smooth. 
Stir this into the mixture in the double boiler. Take from the fire and add yolks of the eggs 
well beaten, then set away to cool. When cool, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Pour the batter into a well-buttered dish that will hold a quart, and cook in a moderate 
oven for 20 minutes. 



May 11 



Cream of Asparagus Soup 
Broiled Fresh Mackerel, Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Chicken Fricassee 

Boiled Rice Stewed Tomatoes Potatoes 

Chocolate Souffle 

Cream 



May 12 

BOILED RICE 

Wash the rice thoroughly. Take four times as much water as rice, add salt to 
it, let the water boil hard, then put in the rice and let it boil from 15 to 20 minutes, 
stirring occasionally with a fork, never with a spoon. Take the rice off and strain 
every bit of water from it. Then let it steam so that each grain is soft and separate. 
The grains must not be broken and not boiled too much, or it becomes indigestible. 

May 13 

Iced Strawberries 

Clam Bouillon Whipped Cream 

Eggs in Tomatoes, Cream Sauce 

Fried Chicken 

Peas Potatoes 

Cold Asparagus, French Dressing 

Apricot Ice, Whipped Cream 

May 14 

EGGS IN TOMATOES 

Take good-sized raw tomatoes. Cut out enough center to make a hole large 
enough to hold a raw egg. Put butter on top, and cheese if liked. Put in oven 
and cook until eggs are set. Cover each tomato with a rich cream sauce. 



May 15 

Cream of Celery Soup 
Salmon Steaks, Sauce Tartare 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 
String Beans Potatoes 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Cream Cheese Crackers 

Rhubarb Shortcake 



May 16 

SPONGE CAKE 

Ten eggs, the weight of the eggs in sugar, half their weight in flour, 2 lemons 
(the juice of one and rind of both). Mix the yolks and sugar together until very 
light, then add the lemon, then the whites, which have been beaten to a very stiff 
froth. Lastly add the flour, which has been sifted twice. Do not beat after the flour 
has been added. 



May 17 

Grape Fruit 

Clear Soup 

Broiled Shad Cucumbers 

Fillet of Veal 

Young Beets New Potatoes 

Asparagus, Sauce Hollandaise 

Strawberries Cream 

May 18 

RHUBARB FOOL 

One bunch of rhubarb, ]/> pound of sugar, 1 gill of water. Cut off the roots 
and leaves of the rhubarb, wipe each stick with a damp cloth, and cut into pieces 
about 2 inches long. Put the rhubarb in a pan with the sugar and boil gently. 
When soft, rub through a sieve. Then add to the custard, which is made with 
3 eggs, 1 pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

May 19 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Crown Roast of Lamb 

Spinach Potato Croquettes 

Cold Chicken 

Lettuce Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing 

Rhubarb Fool 



May 20 

FISH TIMBAL 

Pound in a mortar 1 pound of fish. Add to it the unbeaten yolks of 4 eggs 
(cook separately as for sauce), 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
and Yi pint of milk. Let it get cold, then add to the fish. Also add 1 cup of 
cream, salt and pepper to taste, the unbeaten whites of 4 eggs. Beat all together 
until light. Fill buttered mould and cook 20 minutes in pan of hot water. 

May 21 

Julienne Soup 

Fish Timbal, Cream Sauce 

Roast Chicken, Bread Sauce 

String Beans Stuffed Potatoes 

Asparagus, Melted Butter 
Chocolate Blanc Mange, Whipped Cream 

May 22 

COFFEE CUSTARD 

Put 1 pint of milk on to boil in a double boiler. When at the boiling point, 
add the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of sugar and a pinch of salt. Stir 
until it thickens, being careful not to let it curdle. Remove from the fire and add 2 
tablespoonfuls of coffee essence. Put away to get cold. When ready to serve, 
decorate the top with whipped cream. 

May 23 

Bisque of Lobster Soup 

Broiled Blue Fish Cucumbers 

Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Stuffed Tomatoes Potato Balls 

Jellied Tongue Lettuce Salad 

Strawberry Ice Cream 



May 24 



BISQUE OF LOBSTER SOUP 

One hen lobster, 1 quart of veal stock, % tablespoonful of butter, K tablespoonful of 
flour, season with salt, black pepper and cayenne. Boil the lobster and open. Cut the meat 
into dice. Bruise the shells and small claws and add them to the stock. Simmer 30 minutes. 
Pound and mix the spawn if any, the fat and 2 tablespoonfuls of the meat, part of the coral, 
the butter and flour until reduced to a pulp. Strain the stock and add gradually to the pulp, 
stirring all the whOe. Add the seasoning, return it to the fire, add the lobster meat and the 
remainder of the coral rubbed fine, and serve immediately. 

May 25 

Mutton Broth with Barley 

Roast Beef 

Potatoes Stewed Celery 

Vegetable Salad 

Cheese Crackers 

Macedoine of Fruit 



May 26 



MACEDOINE OF FRUIT 

Half box of gelatine, Yz cup of cold water, 1 % cups of boiling water, juice of a lemon, 
1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of sherry. Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft, add boiling water, 
lemon juice, sugar and wine. Stir well and strain through a fine cloth into a bowl, set on ice. 
When a coating is formed, pour a little into a mould and begin putting in fruit — sliced banana, 
candied cherries, figs, oranges and almonds cut in thin strips, arranged prettily. Add jelly 
carefully, a spoonful at a time. Set away to harden, then add fruit and jelly until the mould 
is full. When firm, turn out. Garnish wnth whipped cream and candied cherries. 



May 27 

Chicken Soup 

Baked Blue Fish Cucumbers 

Lamb Chops 

Potatoes au Gratin Young Carrots 

Tarts with Fresh Strawberries 

Cream 



May 28 

CHEESE RAMAKINS 

Boil together 1 cup of milk and 1 cup of bread crumbs. Add 1 tablespoonful 
of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of black pepper, pinch of cayenne, 
4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and the beaten yolks of 4 eggs. Lastly stir in the 
stiffly beaten whites, and bake for 1 5 minutes. 

May 29 

Cheese Ramakins 

Shad Roe Croquettes Peas 

Cold Chicken Tomato Salad 

Apricot Ice 

Whipped Cream 

May 30 

APRICOT ICE 

One quart can of apricots, 1 lemon, Y^ pound of sugar, 1 quart of water. Boil 
sugar and water together for 5 minutes. Press apricots through a sieve, add them to 
the syrup, add lemon juice, and when cold freeze the sauce as in cream. Put in a 
mould, pack in salt and ice, turn out, and serve with whipped cream. 



May 31 



Vermicelli Soup 

Filet Soles, Sauce Mousseline 

Roast Chicken 

String Beans Rice Croquettes 

Cold Asparagus, French Dressing 

Vanilla Ice Cream Strawberries 



June 1 

SAUCE MOUSSELINE 

Three yolks of eggs, a little thick cream, 1 tablespoonful of butter and the juice 
of a lemon. Beat the yolks and cream together until very light. Boil slowly until it 
thickens, then add the butter little by little, season with salt and pepper and the juice 
of a lemon. Beat light with a fork and serve. 

June 2 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Roast Veal 

Potatoes Spinach 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Stewed Rhubarb, Custard Sauce 

June 3 

STFIAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

One pint of cream, 1 pint of milk, I quart of strawberries, scant cup of sugar. 
Put half the sugar with the milk and cream and scald it, set aside to cool. Pick over 
the berries, and if sandy wash them. Add remainder of the sugar to the berries. 
Mash and stand aside while cream is cooling. Add to the crecmfi and freeze. 



June 4 

Clam Soup 

Broiled Shad, Roe Sauce 

Fried Chicken 

Peas Potatoes 

Strawberry Ice Cream 



June 5 



SARDINES ON THE CHAFING DISH 

One box of sardines, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 cup of cream, butter the size of an 
egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste. Skin, bone and 
wash sardines, chop eggs very fine. Put butter and cream in saucepan. When hot, 
add salt and pepper and bread crumbs. When thickened a little, add eggs, then 
sardines. Stir thoroughly until creamy. Serve on toast. 

June 6 

Julienne Soup 
Salmon Croquettes, Sauce Tartare 

Fillet of Beef Mushrooms 

Potato Croquettes String Beans 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Cheese Crackers 

Strawberries Cream 

June 7 

CARAMEL CREAM 

Half box of gelatine, 1 pound of sugar, 1 pint of water, whites of 6 eggs. Soak the 
gelatine in a little water for 2 hours. Caramel the sugar with 3 tablespoonfuls of water. 
Let it stand on the stove without stirring until brown, but not burned. Heat the rest of the 
water, pour over the dissolved gelatine, and pour into the hot caramel, stirring thoroughly until 
all is well mixed. Let it cool while beating the eggs. Beat the whole mixture for nearly 
half an hour, or until it is well mixed. Pour into a mould which has been previously dipped 
into cold water. Set on ice to cool. Serve with whipped cream. 

June 8 

Chicken Soup 

Roast Lamb Currant Jelly 

Macaroni au Gratin Carrots 

Asparagus, Sauce Mousseline 

Caramel Cream 



June 9 

LEMON WAFERS 

One large cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 3 scant cups 
of flour, rind of 1 lemon, juice of 2. Mix as for any other cake. Drop by tea- 
spoonfuls on a hot buttered pan and bake until brown around the edges. 



June 10 

Raw Clams 

Clear Soup 

Jellied Salmon Mayonnaise 

Roast Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Peas Potato Croquettes 

Broiled Squabs Tomato Salad 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

June 11 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Half box of gelatine, 1 cup of scalded milk, I cup of powdered sugar, % tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, 3 tablespoonfuls of coffee essence, I pint of cream whipped. 
Soak the gelatine in enough cold water to cover it. Scald the milk and pour over 
the soaked gelatine. Stir till dissolved. Whip the cream. Add sugar. When 
the gelatine mixture begins to thicken, stir in the cream lightly. Add vanilla and put 
into a mould, put away to cool. Turn out, garnish with whipped cream. 

June 12 

Puree of Peas 

Baked Blue Fish, Sauce Hollandaise 

Roast Guinea Fowl 

Potatoes Stuffed Tomatoes 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 



June 13 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Two cups of powdered sugar sifted, /^ cup of butter, 1 quart of ripe strawberries, I gill 
of cream whipped, juice of ^ a lemon. Cap and wash the strawberries a few at a time, and 
do not let them be in the water more than a minute ; drain well, and mash the berries. Strain 
through a cheesecloth. Cream the butter and sugar well together, add the whipped cream, 
and gradually add the juice of the benies, then the lemon juice. Beat until well mixed and 
very smooth, then set on ice for an hour or two. 

June 14 

Grape Fruit in Glasses 

Egg Timbals, Tomato Sauce 

Broiled Chicken 

Lettuce Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream Strawberries 

June 15 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Make a cup cake and bake in layers. Take ^ of a box of strawberries, cap 
and mash with a % cup of sugar. Put between the layers of the cake. Whip 
yi pint of cream, sweeten and flavor with vanilla. Put on top of the cake and 
decorate with the remaining berries. 

June 16 

White Vegetable Soup 

Roast Ribs of Beef 

Boiled Rice String Beans 

Cold Asparagus, French Dressing 

Strawberry Shortcake 



June 17 



CHICKEN TERRAPIN 

Boil a chicken with the giblets. When tender, set aside on dish to cool, then cut the 
fowl and giblets into small pieces Y^ inch square. Put all into a stewpan with cayenne 
pepper and salt, 2 blades of mace, 3 hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, I teacup of broth the 
chicken was boiled in, 1 coffee cup of rich cream, % pound of butter with a heaping spoonful 
of flour mixed in it. Set on the range. Simmer for about ten minutes, or until the meat is 
hot. Then add a teacup of madeira or sherry. 

June 18 

Cream of Barley Soup 

Crown Roast of Lamb 

Peas French Fried Potatoes 

Cold Tongue 

Tomato Salad 

Coffee Custard 

June 19 

COLD FISH, JELLIED 

Take any cold boiled fish, put it into a bowl in as large a piece as possible, wet with 
cold water, and pour over it the jelly mixture made as follows : 1 pint of vinegar, I pint of 
the water in which the fish was boiled, a few whole peppers, cloves, allspice ; soak /^ box of 
gelatine in a little cold water for 1 hour, then pour over it the boiling mixture ; strain and pour 
it over the fish. When cold, turn out on a flat dish, decorate with parsley and hard-boiled 
egg, and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

June 20 

Jellied Bouillon 

Eggs in Tomatoes 

Spring Duck, Apple Sauce 

String Beans Mashed Potatoes 

Cold Asparagus, French Dressing 

Meringues 



June 21 



VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Four cups of cream, 2 cups of milk, 1 cup of sugar, dash of salt, 1 tablespoonful 
of vanilla. Scald milk and cream after adding sugar. Beat till cold, add flavoring, 
and freeze. 



June 22 

Raw Clams 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Forequarter of Lamb, Mint Sauce 

New Beets New Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 

Cheese Crackers 

Vanilla Ice Cream Strawberries 

June 23 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

Cut a cold boiled lobster in small pieces. Put in a pan with a little chopped 
parsley, onion juice, I teaspoonful of salt, and I tablespoonful of butter. Heat through, 
then add 1 cup of sherry, simmer for 10 minutes, add the beaten yolks of 3 eggs and 
1 cup of cream. Stir hard until it thickens. Serve immediately. 

June 24 

Clear Soup 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Roast Chicken 

Potato Croquettes Carrots 

Cold Asparagus, French Dressing 

Wine Jelly, Whipped Cream 



June 25 

CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 

One quart of cream whipped to a stiff froth, % cake of Baker's chocolate, 
3 tablespoonfuls of sugar dissolved in I of boiling water and 3 tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Add I cupful of powdered sugar to the beaten cream. Pour the chocolate 
in a thin stream into the cream, stir gently until well mixed. Put it in a mould, pack 
in salt and ice, and let it stand for 3 or 4 hours. 

June 26 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Filet Mignon, Mushroom Sauce 

String Beans Potatoes 

Jellied Tongue Lettuce Salad 

Chocolate Mousse 

June 27 

SOUFFLE DE VOLAILLE 

Chop some white meat of the chicken with a little onion very fine, and add 
enough drawn butter sauce to make it thin. When cold, add the yolk of an egg, 
then beat the white to a froth and add it to the mixture. Run it through a fine sieve. 
Bake in entree dishes and serve immediately. 



June 28 

Grape Fruit 

Scrambled Eggs in Pastry Baskets 

Fish Croquettes, Sauce Hollandciise 

Chicken Volaille 

Peas Mashed Potatoes 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Cheese Crackers 

Ice Cream Maraschino Figs 



June 29 



PLAIN CAKE 

Half cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 2 eggs (whites and 
yolks separately), 1 cup of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 



June 30 

Julienne Soup 

Striped Bass Cucumbers 

Sweetbread Patties 

Saddle of Spring Lamb, Jellied Mint Sauce 

Wax Beans Rice Croquettes 

Pineapple Salad 

Strawberry Ice Cream 



July 1 



ICED CHOCOLATE 

Make a very rich and thick chocolate that it may not become too diluted, put it 
aside to get very cold. Fill the glasses with ice, pour in the cold chocolate, and cover 
with whipped cream. 



July 2 



Chicken Soup 

Sweetbread Patties Green Peas 

Chops 

Mashed Potatoes Spinach 

Charlotte Russe 



July 3 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

One can or 1 bunch of asparagus, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 pint 
of stock, I tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, }i onion, I pint of milk, ^ pint of 
cream, }i teaspoonful of pepper. Remove the heads of the asparagus, cut the ends in small 
pieces, cook them in a pint of stock 1 5 minutes. Cook onion in butter 1 minutes, add flour ; 
cook 1 minute, add to stock, also salt, pepper and sugar. Cook 1 minutes, strain, return to 
pot, add milk, cream and tips. Cook 1 minutes and serve. 



July 4 



Iced Grape Fruit in Glasses 

Vermicelli Soup 

Jellied Salmon, Mayonnaise 

Crown Roast of Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Peas Potatoes 

Tomato Salad Cream Cheese Balls 

Vanilla Ice Cream Strawberries 



July 5 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE 

One quart of cream, % pint of strawberry juice, sugar to taste. Whip the 
cream to a stiff froth, then add by degrees the powdered sugar and strawberry juice. 
Turn it into an ice cream mould, press the lid down tightly. Pack in salt and ice 
and let it stand for 3 hours. Decorate with fresh fruit and whipped cream. 



July 6 



PATE DE FOIS GRAS SANDWICHES 

Half pint of cream, whipped. Add to it by degrees a pinch of cayenne 
pepper and a little salt. When well mixed, put into finger rolls which have been 
split in half and the crumb taken out. Wrap in a damp cloth for a little while 
before serving. 



July 7 

Raw Clams 

Tomato Bisque 

Roast Beef 

Rice Croquettes Carrots 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Rhubarb Shortcake 



July 8 

BAKED HALIBUT 

Fry an onion in plenty of butter for 5 minutes. Take ]/>, can of tomatoes, add 
them to the onion, and let them cook for 5 minutes longer ; add as much water as you 
have mixture. When it comes to the boil set aside. Put the fish in a well-buttered 
pan with butter and salt. Let it cook for 10 minutes. Pour the entire sauce over the 
fish and cook until done. 



July 9 

Asparagus Soup 

Veal Cutlet, Tomato Sauce 

Peas Boiled Rice 

Broiled Chicken 

Tomato Salad 

Cream Puffs, Hot Chocolate Sauce 



July 10 

PRUNE WHIP 

Soak 1 cup of prunes in warm water and stew until tender, rub through a sieve. 
To 1 cup of the sifted prunes add ^ cup of sugar and yi cup of hot water in which 
is dissolved ^2 box of gelatine. When beginning to stiffen, whip it into the well- 
beaten whites of 3 eggs and set away to cool. Serve with boiled custard. 



July 11 

Okra Soup 

Broiled Blue Fish, Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Chicken Fricassee 

Boiled Rice String Beans 

Prune Whip 



July 12 

Jellied Bouillon 

Egg Timbal, Tomato Sauce 

Broiled Chicken 

Lettuce Salad 

Raspberries and Cream 



July 13 

FRUIT SALAD 

Half dozen oranges, ^ dozen bananas, 5^ dozen peaches, 1 pineapple. Pare 
the fruit and cut it in small pieces, putting in a layer of fruit and one of sugcur until all 
is used, then pour over all 1 pint of sherry wine. Put in freezer and leave from 
3 to 4 hours, or until thoroughly chilled. This is very pretty served in baskets made 
of orange skins. 



July 14 

Clear Soup 

Salmon Croquettes, Sauce Tartare 

Chops 

Peas Saratoga Potatoes 

Cold Tongue Tomato Salad 

Fruit Salad 



July 15 

VEGETABLE SALAD IN ASPIC 

Take a round mould with a hole in the center. Wet it with cold water, put in 
a little aspic jelly before it stiffens, leave it to get cold. When it begins to stiffen, 
put in alternately a pile of peas, chopped carrots and potatoes, or any other vegetable 
which is preferred, then cover with more aspic. When perfectly stiff, turn out on 
lettuce leaves and fill the center with mayonnaise dressing. 

July 16 

Cream of Barley Soup 

Roast Chicken 

Mashed Potatoes String Beans 

Vegetable Salad in Aspic 

Chocolate Ice Cream 



July 17 

FRENCH OMELET 

Open the eggs (allowing 2 to each person) into a bowl. Mix well, but do not 
beat ; add salt and pepper and 1 teaspoonful of boiling water to each egg. Stir hard 
in adding the boiling water. Turn it into a hot pan in which has been melted % 
pound of butter. Stir until it begins to thicken, then leave a minute to set, fold over 
each end carefully and turn out. 

July 18 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Timbal of Halibut, Sauce Hollandaise 

Steak 

French Fried Potatoes Carrots 

Chicken Rissoles 

Lettuce Salad 

Stewed Rhubarb Custard 



July 19 

VELVET CREAM 

Half box of gelatine, I ^ pints of cream, 1 ^^ cups of sugar, 1 ^ cups of sherry 
wine, 1 lemon (grated rind and juice). Soak the gelatine in the wine, add the lemon 
and sugar, and beat all together till the gelatine is dissolved, then drain and set away 
to cool. When nearly cold and beginning to stiffen, add it to the beaten cream. 
Beat all together and set away to cool. Turn out and serve with whipped cream. 

July 20 

Bisque of Clam 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Roasted Potatoes Spinach 

Jellied Tongue 

Tomato Salad 

Velvet Cream Raspberries 



July 21 

FROZEN RICE 

Take a scant % cup of rice, put it in a double boiler with 1 pint of milk, sugar 
and a pinch of salt, and let it boil until creamy. When done, add 1 tablespoonful of 
vanilla, 1 % pints cream, whipped. Mix well, put in a covered mould, and pack in 
salt and ice. Let it stand for 3 hours. Turn out and serve with fresh fruit and cream. 



July 22 

Cold Bouillon 

Fish Souffle 

Roast Fillet of Veal 

Potato Croquettes Peas 

Pineapple Salad 

Frozen Rice Preserves 



July 23 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

One pineapple. Cut off the top neatly, remove the fruit and the hard stem. 
Mix the fruit with pulp of 1 grape fruit, 1 apple chopped fine, and some white grapes 
which have been cut in half, stoned and peeled. Dress with French dressing or 
mayonnaise dressing. Return to the pineapple, which place on lettuce leaves and 



serve. 



July 24 

Julienne Soup 

Lobster Cutlets, Sauce Tartare 

Fillet of Beef au Jardiniere 

Vegetable Salad 

Cafe Mousse 



July 25 

ORANGE FILLING FOR CAKE 

The rind of 1 and juice of 4 oranges. Put it on to boil. When it boils, add 
I cup of sugar. Boil till it froths, then add it slowly to the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Put this between the layers of some rich cup cake, reserving enough for the top, to 
which is added some confectioner's sugar, enough to make it rather stiff, so it will 
spread easily but not run. 



July 26 



Tomato Okra Soup 

Cheese Souffle 

Roast Chicken 

Potato Straws Spinach 

Tomato Jelly with Celery Mayonnaise Dressing 

Vanilla Ice Cream Raspberries 



July 27 

ICED TEA 

Make 1 quart of English breakfast lea fairly strong (4 leaspoonfuls is about right). 
Do not let it steep more than 10 minutes. Strain, and add to it 1 bottle of ginger 
ale, juice of 1 lemon and sugar to taste. Let it get very cold, then serve in glasses 
filled with chopped ice and add a slice of lemon. 



July 28 

Raw^ Clams 

Clear Soup 

Boiled Salmon Cucumbers 

Sw^eetbreads in Pastry Cups 

Filet Mignon, Mushrooms 

Peas Potato Balls 

Squabs Celery Salad 

Raspberry Mousse Whipped Cream 



July 29 



ORANGEADE 

Use the peel and juice of 4 oranges, the juice and peel of 1 lemon, 1 cup of 
pineapple pulp, I cup of red banana. Add sugar to taste, and 1 quart of water. 
Serve in glasses filled with cracked ice. 



July 30 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Lamb Cutlets 

String Beans Potatoes 

Jellied Chicken 

Lettuce Salad 

Macedoine of Fruit 



July 31 



COTTAGE PUDDING WITH FRUIT 

Make a cottage pudding and bake in a ring. Turn out and fill the 
center with berries or cut-up fruit. Decorate the top and serve whipped cream 
around it. 



August 1 

Vermicelli Soup 

Chicken Timbal, Cream Sauce 

Roast Beef 

Potatoes Spinach 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Cottage Pudding Raspberries 

August 2 

SUMMER PUDDING 

Take a round or long loaf of bread, cut off the crusts, put in a mould or bowl 
the size and shape of the loaf, then cut out the inside crumb, leaving a shell about 
half an inch thick. Take I quart of huckleberries and cook with plenty of sugar till 
there is a quantity of juice, then pour into the center of the bread and pour the juice 
all around it. Let it stand until all the juice is absorbed. Turn out and serve with 
custard sauce. 

August 3 

Tomato Soup, Croutons 

Fish Croquettes, Sauce Mouseline 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 

Egg Plant Potatoes 
Summer Pudding, Custard Sauce 



August 4 

EGGS AND SPINACH 

Make a puree of spinach and put in the bottom of a flat, buttered dish. 
Open raw eggs on top of it, cover with a rich cream sauce, cover with grated 
cheese and buttered bread crumbs, and put in a hot oven to brown. 



August 5 

Iced Bouillon 

Eggs and Spinach 

Fried Chicken, Cream Sauce 

Corn Fritters Peas 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Meringues 

August 6 

Iced Fruit in Glasses 

Bisque of Clams 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Roast Potatoes Stuffed Tomatoes 

Salad Cheese 

Apricot Ice 

August 7 

RASPBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soften ^ package of gelatine in ^ cup of raspberry juice and dissolve over 
hot water. Add the juice of ^ lemon, 1 cupful of raspberry juice and yd cupful of 
sugar. Stir over ice water, and when it begins to set, fold in I y^, cupfuls of stiffly 
whipped cream. Pour into a mould. When cold, serve surrounded with whipped 
cream. 



August 8 

Chicken Soup 

Broiled Mackerel Cucumbers 

Roast Veal 

Potatoes au Gratin Lima Beans 

Vegetable Salad 

Raspberry Bavarian Cream 



August 9 

CORN BREAD 

One pint of Indian meal, I pint of flour, 3 eggs (whiles and yolks beaten 
separately), I tablespoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake J^ hour in shallow pans. 



August 10 

Julienne Soup 

Pickled Salmon, Jellied Mayonnaise 

Chops, Tomato Sauce 

Corn Potatoes 

Cold Tongue Celery Salad 

Macedoine of Fruit 



August 11 



FISH, CREAMED 

Two cups of cold fish picked in pieces. Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
saucepan. When melted, add 1 cup of milk. Cook till smooth, then add I tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful of salt, dash 
of cayenne, 2 tablespoonfuls of white wine, and 1 of lemon juice. Boil, add yolk of 
1 egg beaten with ^ cup of hot cream or milk, and add fish. Fill entree dishes, 
cover with browned crumbs, and serve very hot. 



August 12 

Cold Consomme 

Sweetbreads a la Creme in Pastry Baskets 

Fillet of Beef a Jardiniere 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Vanilla' Ice Cream 

Fruit Salad 



August 13 



SAVOY POTATOES 

Wash and peel six potatoes. Cut in thin slices. Put a layer in a dish, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and grated cheese, then put in another layer of potatoes, more 
cheese, etc., and continue until the dish is full. Cover with milk and put in the 
oven, covered, for ^ an hour, then remove the cover and brown. 

August 14 

Puree of Peas 
Fillet of Flounders, Sauce Sabayou 

Roast Chicken 
Rice Croquettes Carrots 

Stuffed Peppers 
Caramel Custard 



August 15 



VEAL PIE 

Cut a leg of veal in small pieces, roll them in flour, first sprinkling them 
with salt and pepper. Fill the pie dish, and then put some pieces of butter on 
the veal. Fill the dish with cold water, cover with a light pie crust, and bake 
in a brisk oven. 



August 16 

White Vegetable Soup 

Soft- Shell Crabs, Sauce Tartare 

Veal Pie 

Potatoes Spinach 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Rice Puddling Cut-up Peaches 



August 17 

ALMOND SAND -CAKES 

Three-fourths of a cup of butter scant, creamed with 1 full cup of sugar, 1 egg 
and I extra yolk. Beat thoroughly, add 1 ^ cups of flour and ^ teaspoonful cin- 
namon. Roll very thin and cut in heeirts and diamonds. Brush top with white of an 
egg beaten slightly. Put a blanched almond cut in strips in each corner. Brush 
again with egg, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake in a quick oven. 



August 18 

Raw Clams 

Vermicelli Soup 

Timbal of Fish, Cream Sauce 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Fried Tomatoes Potatoes 

Squabs Lettuce Salad 

Peach Ice Cream 



August 19 



EGG BISCUITS 

One quart of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 1 
teaspoonful of salt, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 cup of milk. Sift flour, baking 
powder and salt together, chop the butter in. Beat the egg thoroughly and add the 
milk to it. Make a hole in the center of the flour and pour the liquid in the dough. 
It should be soft ; if necessary, add more milk. Turn out and roll quickly, cut in 
rounds, and bake 1 5 minutes in a hot oven. 



August 20 

Cream of Barley Soup 

Roast Beet 

Souffle Potatoes Lima Beans 

Corn on Cob 

Lemon Meringue Pie 



August 21 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Roll a puff paste thin, sprinkle well with grated cheese and a little cayenne 
pepper, fold, roll out, and repeat the process. Let it stand in a cold place for a time, 
then roll extremely thin, cut into strips about % inch wide and 3 inches long. Take 
up carefully with a knife and lay on a flat pan. Bake in a slow oven to a delicate 
brown. 



August 22 

Grape Fruit 

Clear Soup Cheese Souffle 

Veal Cutlets 

Peas Potatoes 

Tomato Jelly Salad Cheese 

Hamburg Cream 



August 23 

Timbal of Eggs, Tomato Sauce 

Fried Chicken 

Corn Fritters Lima Beans 

Lettuce Salad 

Cheese Straws 

Peach Shortcake 



August 24 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE 

One-third of a box of gelatine, Yi cup of cold water, Yz cup of boiling water, I cup of 
sugar, I cup of orange juice and pulp, juice of I lemon, whites of 3 eggs. Line a mould 
with orange sections. Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft. Add boiling water, sugar 
and lemon juice. When sugar is dissolved, strain. Add orange juice and pulp with a little 
grated rind. Cool in a pan of ice. When it begins to set, beat till light. Have the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff ; add to the mixture and beat until stiff enough to drop. Pour into a 
mould wet with cold water. Set on ice to stiffen. Turn out and serve with whipped creaim. 

August 25 

Tomato Soup, Croutons 

Filet Mignon 

Mushrooms 

Potato Croquettes Peas 

Cold Meat Salad 

Orange Charlotte 



August 26 

EGG SALAD 

Six cold hard-boiled eggs. Mash the yolks with }4, tablespoonful of melted 
butter and % cup of chopped chicken. Make it into balls. Pile in the center of a 
bed of lettuce leaves. Pour over them a French dressing, and garnish with the 
whites cut in rings. 

August 27 

Chicken Okra Soup 

Baked Blue Fish, Sauce Mousseline 

Beefsteak 

Potato Straws Succotash 

Jellied Chicken Tomato Salad 

Cream Blanc Mange 



August 28 

LITTLE FAVORITES 

One full cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 3 cups of sifted flour, 1 cup of milk, 
whites of 3 eggs, yolks of 5 eggs, I cup of currants, 1 teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Mix as for cup cake, and bake in small pans. 
Elat fresh. 



August 29 

Clear Soup 

Boiled Salmon, Egg Sauce 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 

Potatoes String Beans 

Corn on Cob 

Charlotte Russe 



August 30 

FISH SOUFFLE 

One tablespoonful of butter, I tablespoonful of flour, I tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, I cup of milk, I cup of cold fish, ^^ teaspoonful of salt, 3 eggs. Make a 
white sauce of the butter, flour and milk. Add seasoning, remove from the fire, add 
yolks and fish. Put over the fire for a few minutes, stirring constantly. Set away to 
get cold. When ready to serve, add well-beaten whites. Bake in hot oven 20 
minutes. Serve at once. 

August 31 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Boiled Halibut Cucumbers 

Chops 

Potatoes Lima Beans 

Chicken Croquettes 

Lettuce Salad 

Cut-up Peaches Custard Sauce 



September 1 

HOT CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Beat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs and 1 cup of sugar till light, 
then add 2 ounces of chocolate, melted. Beat again, and add 1 gill of milk and I ^ 
cups of sifted flour. Beat until smooth, then add the well-beaten whites and I heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven about 40 minutes. Serve 
with a hot liquid sauce. 

September 2 

Julienne Soup 

Roast Lamb 

Stuffed Tomatoes Peas 

Rissoles 

Lettuce Salad 

Hot Chocolate Pudding, Foamy Sauce 



September 3 



PRUNE JELLY 

Wash % pound prunes carefully before cooking. Put them in a porcelain kettle with 
water enough to cover them. Boil, closely covered, for 1 minutes, then add 1 tablespoonful 
of sugar to every pint of prunes and stew for 1 5 minutes longer ; take out the prunes, cut them 
in halves, remove the stones, and put the prunes in a mould wet with cold water. Put the 
juice back on the fire, add the juice of /^ a lemon, Yt. pint of claret and % pound of sugar, 
let it boil up, then add it to ^ box of Cox's gelatine dissolved in Yt, pint of cold water. Strain 
and pour over the prunes. Turn out when cold, and serve with whipped cream. 

September 4 

Clam Soup 

Fish Croquettes, Sauce Tartare 

Sweetbread Pates 

Steak 

Potatoes au Gratin Corn 

Prune Jelly Vanilla Mousse 



September 5 



RICE MUFFINS 

Two and one-fourth cups of flour, ?/( cup of hot cooked rice, 5 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 cup of milk, I egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, I cup of milk, ^ teaspoonful of salt. Mix sifted flour, sugar, salt and 
baking powder together. Add half the milk, the eggs well beaten, and remainder of 
milk mixed with rice. Beat thoroughly, then add butter. Bake in gem pans 20 
minutes. 



September 6 

Consomme 

Boiled Salmon Trout, Sauce Hollandaise 

Crown Roast of Lamb 

Potatoes Peas 

Broiled Chicken Tomato Salad 

Peach Ice Cream 

September 7 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

One pint of flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter, ^ teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, 1 cup of milk. Sift the flour, salt and baking powder, add the 
butter and chop into small pieces with a knife. Add milk gradually, to mix a soft 
dough. Turn onto a floured board, roll out lightly }^ inch thick, cut into small rounds. 
Place on a buttered pan close together. Brush the tops with melted butter and bake 
in a hot oven 15 to 20 minutes. 

September 8 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Roast Beef 

Rice and Tomatoes String Beans 

Lettuce Salad 

Cream Cheese Balls 

Summer Pudding 



September 9 

PEACH PICKLES 

Seven pounds of peaches, 4 pounds of white sugar, 1 pint of strong vinegar, 
mace, cinnamon, cloves to taste. Boil all together slowly until the fruit commences 
to crack, when remove the mixture and boil the fruit until well done. Then add 
the fruit again to become thoroughly hot, when put in jars and seal well. 

September 10 

Grape Fruit in Glasses 

Clear Soup 

Fillet of Flounder, Tomato Sauce 

Saddle of Lamb 

Currant Jelly 

Peas Franconia Potatoes 

Sweetbread Croquettes Lettuce Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream Cut-up Peaches 

September 11 

ORANGE FRAPPE 

One cup of sugar, 2 cups of water. Boil 5 minutes. Add I cup of orange 
juice and % c"P of lemon juice. Beat till cold, then add the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten very stiff. Freeze till soft. Serve in glasses. 



September 12 

Cream of Oyster Soup 

Broiled Mushrooms 

Roast Chicken 

Boiled Rice Lima Beans 

Cold Tongue Salad 

Orange Frappe 



September 13 

WAFFLES 

One and one-half pints of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, I tablespoonful of sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, I tablespoonful of butter (melted), 2 eggs, butter, 
and milk to make thin batter. Lastly add whites of eggs and baking powder. 
Use enough milk so batter will run easily and limpid from mouth of pitcher. 

September 14 

Plain Soup 

Fish Souffle, Tomato Sauce 

Beefsteak 

Potatoes au Gratin Spinach 

Chicken Croquettes 

Lettuce Salad 

Peach Shortcake 

September 15 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

One pound of prunes, 1 small cup of sugar, whites of 6 eggs. Stew the 
prunes until very soft, strain, then pass through the colander. Beat the eggs to a very 
stiff froth, and add gradually the sugar and the prunes. Bake 20 minutes or Y^ hour. 
Serve immediately with a custard made with the yolks. 

September 16 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Sweetbread Patties 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Fried Tomatoes Creamed Potatoes 

Celery Mayonnaise 

Cream Cheese 

Prune Souffle, Custard Sauce 



September 17 



MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

Quarter cup of butter, % teaspoonful of salt, % saltspoonful of pepper, 1 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. Rub the butter 
to a cream, add salt, pepper, parsley, and lemon juice, beat hard. 



September 18 

Raw Clams 

Green Pea Soup 

Boiled Halibut, Egg Sauce 

Crown Roast 

Mashed Potatoes Carrots 

Fried Eggplant 

Lemon Meringue Pie 

September 19 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

Whites of 6 eggs, ^ pound of granulated sugar, Yi pound of sweet vanilla 
chocolate grated, 5 ounces of flour. Beat the eggs, add the sugar and chocolate, 
and lastly the flour. Drop by spoonfuls on buttered tins, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



September 20 

Clam Broth Whipped Cream 

Egg Timbal, Tomato Sauce 

Roast Chicken 

Peas Corn Flitters 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Celery 

Peach Ice Cream 



September 21 



TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CELERY 

Take some small round tomatoes, peel and scoop out the center, being careful 
not to break the outside shell. Fill with chopped celery mixed with a rich 
mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



September 22 

Chicken Soup 

Broiled Mushrooms on Toast 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 

Lima Beans Potato Croquettes 

Cold Tongue 

Waldorf Salad 

Cream Puiffs, Chocolate Sauce 

September 23 

CORN PUDDING 

One quart of milk, 5 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 tablespoonful of 
white sugar, 1 dozen ears of corn. Grate the corn from the cob, beat the whites 
and yolks of the eggs separately. Put the com and yolks together, stir hard, and 
add the butter, then the milk gradually, beating all the while, next the sugar and a 
Httle salt, lastly the whites. Bake slowly at first, covering the dish for an hour. 
Remove the cover and brown finely. 

September 24 

Musk Melons 

Julienne Soup 

Halibut Steak, Sauce Hollandaise 

Roast Beef 

Potatoes Savoy Corn Pudding 

Celery and Green Pea Salad 

Apple Pie Cream 



September 25 

CELERY AND GREEN PEA SALAD 

One head celery cut in dice, 1 can French peas, French dressing. Wash, 
scrape and cut celery in dice, drain the peas, and put lettuce on a round, flat dish. 
Arrange in the center the peas, putting the celery around for a border. Pour over 
all the French dressing. 

Septeixiber 26 

Grape Fruit in Glasses 

Julienne Soup 

Boiled Salmon, Sauce Mousseline 

Chicken Timbal, Tomato Sauce 

Fillet of Beef a Jardiniere 

Tomato Jelly with Celery Mayonnaise 

Peach Ice Cream 

September 27 

CORN SOUP 

Boil down 1 can of corn in 1 pint of water and rub through the colander. Add 
to it 1 pint of milk which has been thickened with 1 tablespoonful of butter mixed 
with 1 tablespoonful of cornstarch. Boil up and serve. Any kind of fresh vegetable 
soup may be made in this way. 

September 28 

Com Soup 

Salmon Croquettes, Sauce Tartare 

Lamb Cutlets 

Stewed Tomatoes Riced Potatoes 

Lettuce Cheese 

Chocolate Souffle 



September 29 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 

One pint of bread crumbs, 1 quart of milk, 1 cup of sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, 
1 grated lemon or essence of lemon, butter the size of an egg. Whip the whites of 
the eggs with I teacup of powdered sugar and a little lemon. Spread over the 
pudding, when nearly cold, a layer of apple, grape or any jelly ; then pile on the 
beaten froth and brown in the oven. To be eaten with cream when cold. One 
hour will bcike the pudding. 

September 30 

Chicken Soup 

Roast Lamb, Currant Jelly 

Rice Croquettes Lima Beans 

Chicken Rissoles 

Lettuce Salad 

Wine Jelly, Whipped Cream 

October 1 

CHICKEN TIMBAL^ 

Remove the white meat from a large, tender chicken. Scrape with a knife and remove 
the fiber, then pound in a mortar. After pounding a few minutes, add the unbeaten white of 
1 egg and pound until thoroughly broken, then rub through a sieve. Put in a bowl, stand 
on ice, and stir in gradually from ^ to 1 cup of cream. Add % teaspoonful of salt, dash of 
cayenne, mace and pepper. Try by poaching a little in hot water for a few minutes. It 
should be firm but tender. Cook in a buttered timbal mould set in a pan of hot water in a 
slow oven for 1 5 minutes. 

October 2 

Grape Fruit in Glasses 

Green Turtle Soup 

Boiled Salmon Cucumbers 

Chicken Timbals, Mushrooms 

Saddle of Mutton Currant Jelly 

Rice Croquettes Spinach 

Celery and Pineapple Salad 

Peach Ice Cream 



October 3 

STUFFED BEET SALAD 

Boil fresh red beets until tender, take off the skins while hot. Let them get 
very cold, then cut off the tops and scoop out the insides, taking care not to 
break the outside. Cut a small piece off the bottom, so they will stand. Fill 
with chopped celery mixed with a mayonnaise dressing, or any other kind of 
vegetable salad. 

October 4 

Oxtail Soup 
Sweetbread in Crustades 

Peas 

Roast Ham Spinach 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Caramel Custard 

October 5 

ANGEL CAKE 

The whites of 1 eggs beaten to a froth only. Add to them 1 scant teaspoonful 
cream of tartar and a pinch of salt. Beat until very stiff. Add y^, teaspoonful of 
bitter almonds, I ^ cups of granulated sugar. Do not beat. Add I teaspoonful of 
vanilla with the sugar. Lastly fold in lightly 1 cup of well-sifted flour. Bake in tins 
not greased for ^ hour in a slow oven. Stand the tins upside down on rests until 
the cake drops out. 

October 6 

Tomato Cream Soup 

Boiled Striped Bass, Cucumber and Tomato Sauce 

Crown Roast of Lamb 

String Beans Potatoes 

Romaine Salad Cream Cheese Balls 

Apple Pie Cream 



October 7 



WALDORF SALAD 

Cut apples and celery into thin strips % inch wide, I inch long. Mix 
them with mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with hard- 
boiled egg and curled celery. 



October 8 

Julienne Soup 

Broiled Mackerel 

Roast Beef Yorkshire Pudding 

Stewed Celery Rice Croquettes 

Salad 

Rice a rimperatrice, Chocolate Sauce 

October 9 

FRENCH ICE CREAM 

One quart of milk, scalded. Pour slowly over the beaten yolks of 8 eggs, 
I % cups of sugar, a dash of salt. Put in a double boiler and cook until it coats the 
spoon, stirring all the time. Remove from the fire, add whites beaten stiff, and 
1 tablespoonful vanilla. Beat until cold, add 1 cup whipped cream, and freeze. 



October 10 

Raw Oysters 

Consomme 

Brook Pike Cucumbers 

Filet Mignon Mushrooms 

Peas Mashed Potatoes 

Squabs 

Celery Mayonnaise 

French Ice Cream Fruit Salad 



October 11 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Break the macaroni into pieces I inch long. Have I cupful before cooking. Put into 
boiling water with Yz tablespoonful of salt, and cook 30 minutes. When done, drain through 
a colander and mix with sauce. Half a can of tomatoes, sprig of parsley, 1 bay leaf, 1 blade 
of mace, slice of onion, 2 cloves, 2 peppercorns, /^ teaspoonful of salt. Cook 1 minutes. 
Put 1 tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan. When melted, add I tablespoonful of flour. 
When smooth, stir into the tomato. Cook till thick. Strain, and mix with macaroni. 



October 12 

Black Bean Soup 

Creamed Oysters 

Roast Leg of Lamb 

Potato Croquettes Macaroni and Tomatoes 

Lettuce Salad 

Cheese Straws 

Brown Betty, Hard Sauce 

October 13 

GRAHAM PUFFS 

One pint of milk, K pint of flour sifted, Yo, pint of graham flour sifted, 3 eggs, I table- 
spoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter. Beat the yolks and 
whites together until as light as possible, add the milk, sugar and salt, and pour Y^ of the 
mixture upon the graham flour and flour. Beat until smooth and light, then add the remainder 
of the mixture. Add the melted butter, beating the batter vigorously. Butter the pans, fill 
them with mixture, and bake I hour. 



October 14 

Cream of Barley Soup 

Boiled Halibut, Egg Sauce 

Veal Cutlet 

Lima Beans Potato Balls 

Cold Tongue Celery Salad 

Meringues with Ice Cream 



October 15 

BAKED SWEETBREADS 

Lay the sweetbreads in cold water and let stand for 1 hour. Put in a saucepan, 
cover with boiling water, with 1 teaspoonful of salt. Cook slowly 20 minutes. Take 
out and throw into cold water. When cool, remove all the strings and membrane. 
Dust with salt and pepper and roll in flour. Lard the tops. Put in a pan, and cover 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter cut in strips and ^ cup of stock. Baste frequently. 
Bake y^ hour. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

October 16 

Clear Soup 

Baked Sweetbreads, Mushroom Sauce 

Steak 

Corn Fritters French Fried Potatoes 

Tomato Salad 

Cheese 

Macedoine of Fruit Cream 

October 17 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

One tablespoonful of butter melted, I tablespoonful of flour, 1 cup of brown 
stock, ^ teaspoonful of salt, dash of pepper, ^ can of mushrooms or 12 fresh ones. 
Melt butter, mix in flour, then add the stock. Stir till smooth, add salt and pepper 
and the mushrooms. Cook for a few minutes. The mushrooms must be cooked till 
tender first. 

October 1 8 

Clam Broth Whipped Cream 

Egg Vermicelli in Crustades 

Grouse 

String Beans 

Cauliflower Salad 

Cream Puffs, Fruit Sauce 



October 19 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Two cups of cream, 2 cups of milk, 1 scant cup of granulated sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, 3 bars of Maillard's chocolate. Scald milk and cream, add sugar 
and stir till dissolved. Melt chocolate, add it and vanilla, and freeze. Baker's 
chocolate may be used, but I cup of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla must be 
added. 



October 20 

Cream of Celery Soup 
Lobster Cutlets, Anchovy Sauce 

Fillet of Beef a Jardiniere 

Tomato and Celery Mayonnaise 

Chocolate Ice Cream 



October 21 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Cut two grape fruit in pieces, mix with a cup of English walnuts. Serve 
on lettuce, and garnish with white grapes and pour over a French dressing. 



October 22 

Chicken Soup 

Salmon Steak Cucumber and Tomato Salad 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Peas 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Prune Jelly Whipped Cream 



October 23 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Three and one-half cups of sifted flour, 1 cup of scalded milk, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, yT, tablespoonful of sugar, /^ tablespoonful of salt, % yeast cake. Scald milk, add 
salt and sugar. Dissolve yeast in }{ cup of lukewarm water, add to milk when lukewarm. 
Cut butter into flour. Make a hole in the center and pour in the liquid. Set in a warm 
place to rise. Stir down. Turn out and knead, let rise to double its size. Roll out 
/^ inch thick, cut in rounds, fold over, put in buttered pan. Let rise again. Bake 20 
minutes in hot oven. 

October 24 

Grape Fruit 

Lobster Bisque Soup 

Fillet of Flounders, Tomato Sauce Stuffed Mushrooms 

Saddle of Mutton Currant Jelly 

Potato Croquettes Peas 

Boned Turkey 

Tomato Jelly with Celery Mayonnaise 

Nesselrode Pudding 



October 25 



CUCUMBER JELLY SALAD 

Two cucumbers, peel and cut in slices. Add 1 slice of onion, yi teaspoonful 
of salt, dash of pepper and 1 pint of cold water. Let boil, simmer till soft. Add 
1 tablespoonful of gelatine dissolved in warm water. Strain, line a mould with 
cucumbers cut in slices. Turn in the jelly. When firm and cold, serve in bed of 
lettuce with French dressing. 

October 26 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Oyster Fritters Cucumbers 

Beefsteak 

Potatoes Creamed Eggplant 

Romaine Salad Cream Cheese Balls 

Peach Pie Cream 



October 27 

Julienne Soup 

Boiled Halibut Cucumber Jelly Salad 

Beefsteak 

Savoy Potatoes String Beans 

Lettuce Salad 

Cheese Straws 

Queen of Puddings 



October 28 



CHEESE CROQUETTES 

One cup of American cheese cut in dice, 1 tablespoonful of Parmesan. Cook 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter and 4 tablespoonfuls of flour till thick. Add ^ cup of 
milk, ^ teaspoonful of salt, dash of cayenne, y^ teaspoonful of mustard, and cheese. 
When melted, add the yolks of 2 eggs. Put away to cool. Make into oblong 
pieces, roll in crumbs, then in egg, and then in crumbs. Fry in lard. 

October 29 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Fish Souffle 

Roast Lamb Currant Jelly 

Mashed Potatoes Corn Fritters 

Cheese Croquettes Lettuce Salad 

Hamburg Cream 

October 30 

LOBSTER FARCI 

Meat from 3 lobsters, yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, dash of nutmeg, yi cup of buttered crumbs, ^ teaspoonful of salt, 2 dashes 
of pepper. Rub yolks to a paste and add to the finely chopped lobster, then add 
1 ^ cups of white sauce, salt, pepper and parsley. Fill lobster shells, spread with 
buttered crumbs on top, and bake in oven till brown, about 10 minutes. 



October 31 

Raw Clams 

Consomme 

Lobster Farci 

Roast Chicken 

Boiled Rice Spinach 

Celery Mayonnaise 

Coffee Mousse 



November 1 

ANCHOVY EGGS 

Boil hard the eggs. When cold, cut the eggs in half lengthwise, take out 
the yolks, press them through a sieve. To every egg add 1 teaspoonful of anchovy 
paste, 1 teaspoonful of cream, cayenne, salt, pepper and a small piece of butter. 
Beat all together. Fill each white with the mixture. Serve cold on water cress or 
hot with a cream sauce. 



November 2 

Bouillon in Cups 

Anchovy Eggs 

French Chops 

Mashed Potatoes Fried Tomatoes 

Pineapple Salad 

Meringues 



November 3 

MORS D'CEUVRE 

One hard-boiled egg. Mince it very fine, add a little salt and a very 
little fine parsley (mince all very fine). Have ready some nice rounds of toast, and 
spread some butter and a little anchovy on the rounds of toast. Put the minced 
egg on the toast and serve very hot. 



November 4 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Broiled Mackerel 

Cucumber and Tomato Salad 

Roast Veal 

Mashed Potatoes Eggplant 

Cheese Crackers 

Cottage Pudding with Fruit 



November 5 



POP- OVERS 

One queut of flour, 1 quart of milk, 2 eggs, a little butter and salt. Mix 
flour and milk together till very smooth. Beat up the eggs and mix all together, 
add salt and a little butter. The pans must be well buttered and hot before putting 
in the mixture. Bake in a hot oven. The pans must be filled three-quarters full. 



November 6 

Clear Soup 

Baked Blue Fish, Sauce Hollandaise 

Veal Cutlet 

Baked Hominy Creamed Cauliflower 

Celery Mayonnaise 

Lemon Meringue Pie 



November 7 



BAKED HOMINY 

One tablespoonful of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of 
cold boiled hominy, 2 eggs, salt to taste. Melt butter and stir in flour, add milk, 
and stir until smooth and thick. Add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Heat through, 
then put away to get cold. When ready to use, beat very hard and fold in 
lightly the beaten whites of the eggs. Put in a buttered dish and bake for ^ hour. 
Serve immediately. 



November 8 

Scrambled Eggs in Crustades 

Fried Chicken 

Peas Stuffed Potatoes 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Cream Puffs, Hot Chocolate Sauce 



November 9 

BEARNAISE SAUCE 

Put into a small flat pan 4 tables(>oon(uls of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of onion 
juice, chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt. Simmer to half the amount. Take 
from the fire. Add the yolks of 3 eggs beaten, stirring over the fire until it thickens. 
Remove again and add I % tablespoonfuls of butter cut in small pieces. Stir again over 
a slow fire. Withdrav/ and add the same quantity of butter. Serve immediately. 



November 1 

Oyster Soup 

Chicken Patties 

Boiled Fresh Tongue, Beamaise Sauce 

Spinach Mashed Potatoes 

Romaine Salad Cheese 

Hot Chocolate Pudding, Foamy Sauce 

November 1 1 

WELSH RAREBIT 

One pound of fresh American cheese. Break in small pieces and put in a pan 
over hot water with 1 tablespoonful of butter until it melts. Add condiments (salt, 
pepper, cayenne and Worcestershire sauce), moisten with beer (about % bottle). 
Stir till it thickens, and serve immediately on rounds of toast. 



November 12 

Chicken Soup 
Striped Bass, Sauce Hollandaise 

Crown Roast of Lamb 

Spinach Potato Souffle 

Tomato Salad Cheese 

Coffee Custard 



November 13 

A CHOCOLATE DESSERT 

Seven eggs, 7 tablespoonfuls of sugar, % cake of chocolate dissolved in % cup 
of boiling w^ater, ]i box of Cooper's gelatine dissolved in )4. cup of boiling whaler. 
Beat yolks and sugar until very light, add chocolate and gelatine, beat hard, then fold 
in the whites beaten very stiff. Put in a mould wet with cold water. Turn out and 
serve with whipped cream. 

November 1 4 

Grape Fruit 

Julienne Soup 

Fillet of Flounders, Sauce Tartare 

Roast Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts, Cranberry Sauce 

Rice Croquettes String Beans 

Tomato and Celery Salad 

Chocolate Dessert 

November 1 5 

STEWED KIDNEYS 

Cut a nice fresh ox kidney into slices, each being about the size of a crown piece, but 
double the thickness. Put % pound of butter into a stew pan upon the fire. When very 
hot put in the kidney, stirring with a wooden spoon 3 minutes over a brisk fire. Then 
add for each pound of kidney /2 tablespoonful of flour, ]/2 teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, 
and moisten with a gill of water. Half a glass of sherry improves it. Add a little browning 
if handy, and let simmer gently for 5 minutes. If too thick, add a little more water. Serve 
immediately. 



November 1 6 

Stewed Kidney with Scrambled Eggs 

Chicken Timbal 

Peas 

Lettuce Cheese 

Ice Cream 



November 17 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE 

Six eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, juice and rind of 1 lemon. 
Beat yollts, sugar and lemon until very light, add to it carefully the stiffly 
beaten whites. Put it into a buttered pudding dish and bake in a hot oven 
until brown. 



November 1 8 

Com Soup 

Chicken a la Terrapin 

Chops 

Mashed Potatoes Cauliflower 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Omelette Souffle 

November 1 9 

RISSOLES 

Cut a piece of light, thin pastry 5 inches square. Put in the center 2 
tablespoonfuls of any kind of mince, sweetbreads or oysters. Wet the edges 
with the white of an egg, fold the pastry over, press firmly together, and bake 
in a hot oven. 



November 20 

Black Bean Soup 

Roast Beef Yorkshire Pudding 

Savoy Potatoes Spinach 

Rissoles 

Lettuce Salad 

Apple Charlotte 



November 21 

CHICKEN AND HAM TIMBALS 

Make a mixture for chicken timbal. Fix some ham in the same way. Butter 
a timbal tin the shape of a ham. Put in first the chicken mixture, then the ham. 
Cook the same way as for chicken timbal. Turn out, and put a piece of paper fluted 
on the end where the bone should be. 



November 22 

Consomme 

Fish Croquettes, Sauce Tartare 

Filet Mignon, Mushroom Sauce 

Potato Balls String Beans 

Chicken and Ham Timbal 

Lettuce Salad 

VaniHa Ice Cream, Chocolate Sauce 

November 23 

EGGS AU GRATIN 

Boil the eggs hard, cut in halves, take out the yolks and mix with grated 
cheese. Return this to the whites, put in deep dish, pour over them the follow- 
ing sauce : Put in a granite saucepan I tablespoonful of butter, ^ pound of 
fresh American cheese ; stir till melted, then add J^ pint of warmed milk ; stir hard. 
When smooth and thick, pour over the eggs. Put in oven and brown. Serve 
immediately. 



November 24 

Tomato Soup with Rice 

Boiled Halibut, Egg Sauce 

Roast Mutton Currant Jelly 

Baked Hominy Carrots 

Tomato Jelly Mayonnaise 

Baked Apples Custard 



November 25 



CIDER JELLY 

One box of gelatine soaked 2 hours in a pint of cold water. Add 1 pint 

of sugar, the juice and rind of 2 lemons, 1 quart of boiling water. Stir until 

the gelatine is dissolved, then add 1 pint of cider. Strain through a flannel 
jelly-bag. This makes two quart forms. 



November 26 

Puree of Pea Soup 

Boiled Ham 

Spinach 

Broiled Chicken 

Lettuce Potatoes Riced 

Cider Jelly Whipped Cream 

November 27 

EGG VERMICELLI 

Boil 3 eggs 20 minutes. Separate the yolks and chop the whites fine. Toast 4 slices 
of bread ; cut half into small squares and half into points or triangles. Make 1 cup of thin 
white sauce with 1 cup of cream or milk, ! teaspoonful of butter, I heaping teaspoonful of 
flour, Yz teaspoonful of salt, >^ teaspoonful of pepper. Stir the whites into the sauce, and 
when hot pour it over the toast. Rub the yolks through a fine strainer over the whole, and 
garnish with a border of toast points and a bit of parsley in the center. 



November 28 

Egg Vermicelli in Crustades 

Lamb Chops 

Mashed Potatoes Peas 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 



November 29 

COFFEE LAYER CAKE 

Make a rich cup cake, bake in layers and spread with the following mixture : 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed to a cream, add to it I cup of fine brown 
sugar ; beat hard. Flavor wi'ai 2 tablespoonfuls of coffee essence. Lastly add 
1 tablespoonful of whipped cream. If too soft, add more sugar before adding 
the cream. 

November 30 

Clear Soup 

Fish Souffle, Tomato Sauce 

Roast Beef 

Macaroni au Gratin Cauliflower 

Lettuce Cheese 

Pumpkin Pie 

December 1 

PLUM PUDDING MADE OF CARROTS 

One pound of mashed carrots or potatoes (carrots are best), 1 pound of beef suet 
chopped fine, 1 pound of flour mixed with molasses, 1 pound of dried currants, 1 
leaspoonful of ground cloves, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, I teaspoonful of 
ground allspice, 1 teaspoonful of ground nutmeg. Boil 3 J/2 hours. 



December 2 

Cream of Barley Soup 

Sweetbreads on Toast, Mushroom Sauce 

Mutton Cutlets 

Rice Croquettes Peas 

Tomato Salad Cheese 

Apple Turnovers Cream 



December 3 

OLD MAID'S CAKE 

One pound of salt pork chopped fine, 1 pound of raisins, 1 pound of currants, /^ pound 
of citron, 1 quart of flour, 1 pint of brown sugar, 1 pint of boiling water, Y^ pint of molasses, 
2 teaspoonfuls of nutmeg, I leaspoonful of mace, 2 teaspoonfuls of cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
cinnamon, grated rind of I lemon, 1 tablespoonful of soda dissolved in boiling water or 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Pour water on pork, stir until melted, pass through colander ; 
add sugar, molasses, spice and half the flour, reserving Yz pint to mix with the fruit ; then add 
soda and the rest of the flour and fruit. Put in buttered pans lined with paper. Bake Y\ hour, 
then try with a broom-straw ; if done, the straw will be dry. This quantity makes 2 cakes. 



December 4 

Oyster Soup 

Lobster Cutlets, Sauce Tartare 

Boiled Tongue 

Spinach 

Cold Turkey Celery Mayonnaise 

Chocolate Mousse 



December 5 



MERINGUES 

Take 6 eggs, beat them to a stiff froth, add a teaspoonful of vanilla fliavoring, stir 
lightly in some powdered sugar. Then butter a sheet of paper, lay it on the meringue 
board, and with a tablespoon put on your meringues. Dust some sugar over each, put 
in oven and brown well. Then take them in your hand and scoop out each one. 
What you empty out answers to form the next batch, and so on. Eleven ounces of 
sugar to 6 eggs makes all, including the dusting on the meringues, etc. 



December 6 

Eggs in Rolls 

Roast Chicken 

Boiled Rice Spinach 

Lettuce Salad Cream Cheese 

Meringues 



December 7 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CRAB MEAT 

Take small round tomatoes, peel them and lay them on ice. Scoop out the 
insides and fill with crab meat mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaves as an hors d'oeuvres. 



ecember 8 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Crab Meat 

Green Turtle Soup 

Sweetbreads, Mushroom Sauce 

Saddle of Mutton Currant Jelly 

Potato Croquettes String Beans 

Boned Squabs Celery Mayonnaise 

Ice Cream Served with Fruit Salad 

December 9 

BOSTON COOKIES 

One cup of butter, I Y2 cups of sugar, 2 eggs, I teaspoonful of soda (scant), 1 /3 table- 
spoonfuls of hot water, lYx cups of flour, 72 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
1 nutmeg, 1 cup of chopped walnuts, Y^ cup of currants, J'2 cup of seeded raisins. Cream 
the butter ; add sugar gradually, and eggs well beaten, half the flour mixed and sifted, with 
salt and cinnamon, then nut meats, fruit and remaining flour, 1 wine-glass of sherry. Drop 
by spoonfuls one inch apart on a buttered sheet and bake in moderate oven. 



December 1 

Tomato Soup 

Creamed Fish 

Roast Capon 

Spinach Potatoes au Gratin 

Endive Salad 

Cheese Balls 

Omelette Souffle, Fruit Sauce 



December 1 1 

SNOW PUDDING 

Half box of Cox's gelatine, I pint of cold water. Soak until it is dissolved ; 
pour on 1 pint of boiling water, juice of 3 lemons, sugar to taste. When thoroughly 
cold, beat it up to a white froth, then add whites of 4 eggs well beaten. Beat all 
together till quite stiff. Put in moulds wet with cold water and set on ice to stiffen. 
Turn out and serve with a boiled custard made from the yolks. 

December 1 2 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Smelts Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Steak 

Saratoga Potatoes Cauliflower 

Tomato Salad 

Snow Pudding 



December 13 

WALNUT FUDGE 

Two pounds of light brown sugar, ^ cup of butter, good 5'^ cup of milk, 
y^ teaspoonful of salt, I teaspoonful of vanilla, I pound of walnuts shelled and 
chopped. Boil hard 10 minutes, add vanilla and beat until it thickens, add 
walnuts, put in buttered tins, score with knife. 



December 1 4 

Grape Fruit 

Chicken and Clam Broth Whipped Cream 

Filet Mignons, Mushroom Sauce 

Tomatoes Filled with Celery 

Chocolate Mousse 



December 1 5 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Cut up grape fruit, oranges, bananas and peanuts, mix with the following 
dressing, return to the grape fruit shells, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Dressing : Yolks of 2 eggs, salt, pepper, mustard, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; 
cook until thick, then add 1 cup of whipped cream just before serving. 

December 16 

Caviar 

Mushroom Soup 

Lobster Croquettes, Sauce Hollandciise 

Green Peppers Stuffed with Sweetbreads 

Turkey, Cranberry Sauce 

String Beans Potatoes Creamed 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Nesselrode Pudding 

December 1 7 

MOLASSES CAKE 

Half cup of butter, }4 cup of brown sugar, ^ cup of molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful of cloves, }4 nutmeg grated, y^ teaspoonful of ginger, 
pinch of salt, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup of strong cold coffee in which dissolve I full 
teaspoonful of soda, 2 well-beaten eggs. Beat whites and yolks separately. Bake 
in shallow pans about 40 or 45 minutes. 



December 1 8 

Clear Soup 

Boiled Halibut, Egg Sauce 

Roast Lamb Currant Jelly 

Sweet Potato Croquettes Beets 

Lettuce Salad Cheese 

Whipped Cream in Baskets of Cake 

Hot Chocolate Sauce 



December 19 

EGG CUTLETS 

Six hard-boiled eggs, chopped. Mix with 1 cup of rich cream sauce. Let it 
stand till cold. Shape like cutlets, roll in bread crumbs, then in egg, and again in 
crumbs. Fry in hot lard till a nice brown. When ready to serve, put a piece of 
parsley where the bone should be. 



December 20 

Egg Cutlets, Cream Sauce 

Roast Duck, Apple Sauce 

Cauliflower au Gratin Mashed Potatoes 

Cold Fillet 

Lettuce Salad 

Tarts Cream 



December 21 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Half pound of the while meat of a chicken chopped very fine. Season with Y^ tea- 
spoonful of salt, y^ teaspoonful of celery salt, ^ saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, saltspocnful 
of white pepper, a few drops of onion juice, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, 1 pint of very thick cream sauce. Mix the sauce with the chicken, using only 
enough to make it as soft as can be handled. Spread on shallow plate to get cold. Shape 
into rolls. Roll in bread crumbs, then egg, and lastly in bread crumbs. Fry 1 minute in 
smoking hot fat. 



December 22 

Oyster Soup 

Fish Souffle 

Roast Veal 

Peas Potato Savoy 

Chicken Croquettes Lettuce Salad 

Apple Dumplings, Hard Sauce 



December 23 

Eggs au Gratin 

Veal Loaf, Tomato Sauce 

Baked Hominy 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

Baked Apples Cream 



December 24 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

One cup of sugar, 1 cup of grated chocolate, 1 cup of molasses, ^ cup of 
milk, Yz cup of butter. Boil 20 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour in buttered 
tins. When cool, score with a knife. 



December 25 

Raw Oysters 

JuHenne Soup 

Striped Bass, Sauce Hollandaise Potato Balls 

Roast Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts 

French Peas Cranberry Jelly 

Redhead Duck Fried Hominy 

Sweetbread Salad 
Plum Pudding Ice Cream 



December 26 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

One cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, whites of 4 eggs, ^ cup of milk, 
2 cups of flour, I Yz teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 2 
ounces of shelled walnuts, 2 ounces of shelled pecans, y^ pound of figs, ^ pound 
of dates, 5^ pound of citron, %. pound of currants (chopped). Bake in slow oven 
%^ hour. 

December 2,7 

Pea Soup 

Roast Beef 

Boiled Rice Spinach 

Cheese Croquettes Lettuce Salad 

Lady Locks 

December 28 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

Cook, stirring constantly, apples pared and sliced, in butter, until they are soft 
and dry. Add sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls. Line a mould with sippets of bread an inch 
wide dipped in melted butter, overlapping each other. Arrange pieces of bread 
similarly in the bottom of the mould. Turn in the apple and cover with buttered 
bread. Bake for 5^ hour in a hot oven. Serve with hot custard sauce. 



December 29 

Bisque of Clam 

Broiled Smelts, Sauce Tartare 

Roast Chicken, Cranberry Sauce 

Cauliflower Potato Straws 

Celery Salad 

Apple Charlotte, Custard Sauce 



December 30 

CHEESE ECLAIRS 

Fill eclair shells with a cheese mixture, grate cheese on top, and put in oven for 1 minute 

to melt the grated cheese. 

CHEESE MIXTURE 

Half tablespoonful of butter, % pound of fresh American cheese, % tablespoonful of 
flour, Yi pint of milk, salt, pepper and cayenne. Put butter in a granite saucepan, add cheese, 
stir till melted. Add warm milk, then the flour, which has been rubbed smooth in a little 
cold milk, then the spices. 



December 31 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Scalloped Oysters 

Roast Lamb Currant Jelly 

Rice Croquettes Carrots 

Cheese Eclairs Lettuce 

Apple Pie Cream 



Copyright 1912, by Margaret Frances Tomes. 



5? 88' v4 



''^^^0 



OCT 23 1912 



H 












.<J^ 






.^■^ .>Va\ ^^^^^^ .^^\ \/ ,^^ ^^^^^^ /I 
























M ' .0 



'^^ , % "*' A^ <!u *^vr* 






.>" 




















*>*oV^' 















'^•o^ 






14* -v * •55jiA\n'^*' Ta 



•%.^' 



.•J^^ 









CKMAN |±| 

DERY INC. |S| 

^ OCT 88 

1^ N. MANCHESTER, 






