TX 

7/5 
74 






■ 




V> ,^V 



<v- 






•>^\- 









30 < ;j 




"^v v* 






^ v* 



' 



? 






HOME HELPS 



A Guide to the 
New Housewife 



Published by 

THE THOMAS ADVERTISING CO. 
CHICAGO 



f$ 



* 

^ 



Copyrighted 1912 

by 

The Thomas Advertising Co 

All Rights Reserved 



©CU347916 



PREFACE 



To the Bride: — In handing you this little book we 
are making you a wedding present of countless value. 
A perusal of its pages will demonstrate its immediate 
value as a helper in establishing your new home. The 
more you sludy and use its contents the greater will be 
your appreciation of its value. Everything is practical 
and theories are only used to form a foundation for the 
practical facts given. 

Every word of the text is reliable and will work out 
to good advantage if carefully followed. The advertise- 
ments are those of only reliable firms with whom you 
may trust yourself in making your purchases, because 
they have been and are firmly established and therefore 
have the best of reputations to live up to. Kindly show 
your appreciation of the value here given by mentioning 
"Home Helps" when you are making your purchases. 



General Helps for Furnishing the Home 

The furnishing of the new home presents many 
very difficult problems to the new life. A large amount 
of money may be vainly squandered in trying to get 
something that looks homelike, and on the other hand 
very delightful and cozy effects may be obtained from 
a very small expenditure. The reason for the differ- 
ence is that in the first case the person went at the 
task without knowing what she really wanted, while 
in the latter the person had worked out a definite 
scheme of color and decoration and bought everything 
to that end. We have not space enough to give any 
rules for decorating, nor could any be given except in 
the most general way, because of the vast differences 
in people's tastes. It is the object to here give some 
ideas as to the general effects certain color schemes and 
arrangements may give, and we hope that these may 
be of use to you when you decorate the new home for 
the first time or when the old one is redecorated. The 
subject is treated broadly but practically. 

First, a few "don'ts" will help. Don't, if you 
have two rooms that cannot be shut off from each 
other, decorate one of them in blue and the other in 
red, but rather use the same color in both. Never use 
a red paper although you like the color and although 
your husband may also like it. The color fades easily, 
it becomes very tiresome, it cannot be made to har- 
monize with anything and it absorbs so much light that 
on a dark day it casts a gloomy aspect upon everything. 
If you like yellow as a paper because of its sunshiny 
effect do not put it in a room that has plenty of sun- 
shine but rather put it in a room that is without this 
good cheer. Put the light yellows and creams in north 
and court rooms and decorate the sunlight rooms in 
browns, tans or dark yellows. Another thing that 
should be avoided is the using of heavily and promi- 
nently decorated papers. With paper that has figures 
on it that you can hang your hat on, you cannot reach 
cozy or homelike effect. Always remember that soft, 
subdued tones and effects will wear the longest and be 
the most restful and satisfactory. 




Color Schemes 

The following are some color schemes that have 
been tried and which will work out very satisfactorily 
if they are studied a little: 
A yellow scheme: 

Yellow and an odd blue. 

Yellow and green. 

Yellow and brown. 

Yellow and a dark grey. 
A brown scheme: 

Brown and apricot. 

Brown and old rose. 

Brown, green and black. 

Brown, b'ack and old gold. 

Brown and burnt orange. 

Brown and a light odd shade of blue. 
An old gold scheme: 

Old gold and rose. 

Old gold, cream and maroon. 

Old gold and olive green. 

Old gold, rose and black. 

Old gold and odd shade of dark blue green. 

A Blue Scheme: 

!Dark blue and cream. 
Dark blue and a blue grey. 
.—Blue and green. 

Slue and violet, lavender, burnt orange used 
sparingly. 

A Grey Scheme: 

Grey and burnt orange. 
Grey and old rose. 
— -Grey and old gold. 

Grey and a yellow ochre. 
Grey and coral red. 
Grey and lavender. 

A Green Scheme: 

Green and peach. 
Green and white. 
Green, olive and yellow ochre. 

(There is so much green out of doors, there- 
fore why not use something else within. It will 
be more satisfactory.) 

A White Scheme: 

White and green. 

White and a steel blue. 

White and lavender, violet or amethyst. 

Yv'hite and tan or dark yellow. 

All of the above schemes offer many varied possi- 
bilities and if worked out with the first named color 
predominating they will give very satisfactory effects. 
None of the above schemes will cost more to work out 
in dollars and cents than the usual method of throwing 
together a heterogenous mass of furniture, rugs, pic- 
tures, etc., with an impossible wall covering, in a vain 
effort to get something attractive and homelike. A 
good plan is to choose the scheme and then give the 
ideas to some furnishing house to work out for you. 



To better illustrate the workings of the schemes 
and to give an idea as to what to use and what to 
discard in the furnishing of the home, the following 
examples will be used: 

For a living room, let's use a grey scheme. The 
walls, then, must be done in a dark grey. The floor 
covering should be grey also, and a seamless Wilton 
rug without a border would be the most satisfactory; 
if oriental rugs should be used their colors should be 
very subdued. The furniture should also be grey, 
wicker work would be the best with this scheme. So 
far the room is all grey, with the possible exception 
of the oriental rugs. Now, to give life to the decora- 
tions some color must be added. If there is a fireplace 
use brass or copper andirons, over the fireplace have 
two copper or brass candlesticks with old rose shades. 
On the table use a copper lamp, also with an old rose 
shade, — apricot or a burnt orange may be used in place 
of the old rose. The curtains must not be lace. They 
should be a plain net with over curtains of white, 
heavily figured chintz or muslin. The figuring of the 
curtains must not be of a conspicuous type. At night, 
when the lamp is lighted, always avoid a high over- 
head light if you wish to have the room look cozy, 
and there is a fire in the fireplace, the effect of the 
room will be very pleasing. 

A living room furnished in mission necessitates an 
entirely different treatment than the above room. If 
mission is used you must not have anything in the room 
that is at all dainty and frilly, everything must be 
simple and rather quiet, and substantial; by that, it is 
not meant that the room must look ugly or cumber- 
some. The schemes that lend themselves most readily 
are grey, tan, blue, green or old gold and olive green. 
This last is especially desirable if there is a high wains- 
coting to the room. For example, take the old gold, 
olive green color scheme with mission furniture, and a 
wainscoting. 

The wainscoting panels should be olive green, and 
of course the woodwork of the room must be mission 
finished, above the high wainscoting the wall should 
be tinted old gold. The floor should be covered with 
a perfectly plain borderless rug, olive green in color, 
to match the color in the panels; a velvet rug is pref- 
erable to any other. In front of the davenport or 
fireplace there may be a small soft toned oriental rug. 
The fireplace, to get the correct and best results from 
the scheme, should be a dark red brick, nearly brown. 
The furniture should consist of low bookcases, large 
library table, a davenport, four or five chairs; these 
should be straight, true mission styles do not recognize 
the rocker. The decorations should be simple, copper 
andirons in the fireplace, a copper vase or two on the 
bookcases, three or four copper candlesticks with old 
rose shades, a copper library lamp on the table also, 
with an old rose shade. A couple of copper jardinieres, 



with autumn leaves, set on the bookcases or in the 
chimney corner add greatly to the homelike effect. 
The curtain must be simple net with over curtains of 
stenciled burlap or figured muslin. The drapes should 
hang straight to the floor and should be of stenciled 
burlap or muslin to match the over curtains. A crash 
may be used to good advantage in place of the muslin 
or burlap. At night in the fire and lamp light this 
room would please the most critical person because it 
is simple and cozy. 

Dining Room Examples. This is perhaps the hard- 
est room to decorate well and properly that there is, 
because there are only certain things that are permissi- 
ble in the well decorated room of this type. 

Mahogany and oak are the best woods to furnish 
with. First use the mahogany furniture and build up 
a color scheme with that as a basis. A white and blue 
scheme will be the best to use with mahogany. The 
woodwork should be white, the walls should be papered 
with a blue, French striped paper, and the floor must 
be covered with a plain blue rug with a darker border. 
The furniture is of mahogany and consists of a round 
mahogany table, chairs, a buffet and a serving table. 
The decorations are simple. There should not be any 
pictures or plates on the wall. On the buffet there may 
be two or three plates, a vase, and perhaps a covered 
dish; these should all be of the same pattern and should 
be blue and white in color. The table may have a vase 
upon it and this should match in every way the other 
ornaments on the buffet. The curtains should be a 
pretty figured muslin. 

An Oak Dining Room. Golden oak should not be 
used if it is at all possible to get anything else. Use 
a dull oiled or an Old English oak for the furniture. 
With that then as a basis use a brown and old gold or 
burnt orange color scheme. The woodwork must be 
very dark if the Old English oak is used and an oiled 
oak if the oiled furniture is to be the keynote. The 
walls should be papered in brown. The floor ought to 
be covered with a rug that is brown and that will 
harmonize with the walls; the border should be darker 
than the center of the rug. If a figured rug is pre- 
ferred be sure that it has a brown base and that the 
figures are not conspicuous. The furniture should con- 
sist of a round table, chairs, plain with cane seats, a 
buffet and a' serving table. Two or three copper candle- 
sticks with old gold or burnt orange shades may be set 
on the buffet with a copper nut bowl. A low copper fern 
pot will add to the beauty of the table. The hangings 
should be a plain, tea colored net with over curtains 
of a figured muslin or chintz. There should not be 
any wall adornment. 

Bed rooms should be treated in a dainty manner. 
For example, suppose the furniture to be used for the 
room was mahogany, then, with that as a key the fol- 
lowing color scheme would be best to follow is white 

10 



and Alice blue. The woodwork should be white and 
the wall paper ought not to be heavily figured; every- 
thing should look as dainty as possible; a striped de- 
sign is the best suited for this type of a room. The 
paper should extend to the ceiling. The floor cover- 
ing must be a plain blue rug, similar in color to the 
wall covering, and with a darker, plain border than the 
center. The furniture should be mahogany or stained 
a mahogany color. There should be a dressing table, 
a chair or two, a bureau and a bed; the bed may be 
white enamel iron, although a large four-post mahogany 
bed would be more preferable. The curtain may be of 
lace, although if net is desired use a figured over cur- 
tain. The draperies used should also be of the same 
figure as the over curtain. A room decorated as the 
above will be very satisfactory. 

Another example would be a white-green color 
scheme. The woodwork must be white, the walls with 
either a plain green or a daintily striped green and 
white paper. The latter is preferable because it pre- 
vents the least semblance of solidness. The floor should 
be covered with a pretty green rug, a plain velvet with- 
out border would be well. The chairs should be wicker, 
the dressing table, chiffonier, bureau and bed should 
be white, the bedsteads may be wood and should be of 
a corresponding green to the chairs and wall. The 
curtains should be a tea colored net, the over curtains 
must be unfigured and tan. Other draperies should 
also be of the same material as the over curtains. 

Tables. 

Table of Proportions. 

One quart of flour requires one pint of butter, or 
butter and lard mixed, for pastry. 

One quart of flour requires one heaping teaspoonful 
of butter for biscuit. 

One quart of flour requires two tablespoonfuls of 
butter for shortcake. 

One quart of flour requires one cup of butter for 
•cup cakes. 

One quart of flour requires one-half teaspoonful salt. 

One quart of flour requires four teaspoons of baking 
powder. 

One quart requires one pint of milk for muffins, 
gems, etc. 

One quart of flour requires one scant quart of milk 
for batters of all kinds. 

One measure of liquid to three measures of flour for 
bread. 

One teaspoon of soda to one pint of sour milk. 

One teaspoon of soda to one cup of molasses. 

One teaspoon of salt to one pound of meat. 

A spoon means that the material should rise above 
the edge of the spoon as much as the bowl sits below it. 
A heaping teaspoon means that the material should be 
twice as high above the edge of the spoon as the bowl 



6inks below it. A level teaspoon should hold sixty drops 
of water. All dry materials are measured after sifting. 

A spoon of salt, pepper, soda, spice is a level spoon. 

One-half of a spoon is measured by dividing through 
the middle lengthwise. 

A speck or a pinch is what can be placed within a 
quarter-inch square surface. 

Table of Measure. 

A speck equals one-quarter spoonful. 

Four saltspoons equal one teaspoon. 

Three teaspoons equal one tablespoon. 

Eight tablespoons of dry and solid material equal 

one cup. 
Sixteen tablespoons of liquid material equal one cup. 
Two gills equal one cup. 
One wine glass equals one-half gill. 
One cup equals eight ounces of liquid. 
Ten eggs, average size, equal one pound. 
One-half ounce bottle extract equals twelve tea 

spoons. 
One tablespoon butter equals one ounce. 
One tablespoon granulated sugar equals one ounce. 
One tablespoon powder sugar equals one ounce. 
One tablespoon flour equals one-half ounce. 
Two tablespoons ground spice equal one ounce. 
Five nutmegs equal one ounce. 
One quart sifted pastry flour equals one pound. 
One quart less one gill sifted patent flour equals one 

pound. 
One scant pint granulated sugar equals one pound. 
One pint butter equals one pound. 
One pint chopped meat, packed, equals one pound. 
One cup rice equals one-half pound. 
One cup cornmeal equals six ounces. 
One cup stemmed raisins equals six ounces. 
One cup cleaned currants equals six ounces. 
One cup stale bread crumbs equals two ounces. 

Time for Baking. 

Loaf bread 40 to 60 minutes 

Eolls and biscuit 10 to 20 minutes 

Graham gems 30 minutes 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 minutes 

Sponge cake ' 45 to 60 minutes 

Plain cake 30 to 40 minutes 

Fruit cake 2 to 3 hours 

Cookies 10 to 15 minutes 

Bread pudding 1 hour 

Bice and tapioca 1 hour 

Indian pudding 2 to 3 hours 

Steamed pudding 1 to 3 hours 

Steamed brown bread 3 hours 

Custards 15 to 20 minutes 

Pie crust, about 30 minutes 

Plum pudding 2 to 3 hours 

14 



Vegetables. 
Greens — 

Dandelions 1% hours 

Spinach 1 hour 

String beans 2 hours 

Green peas 20 minutes 

Beets 1 hour 

Turnips 1 hour 

Squash % hour 

Potatoes 30 minutes 

Corn 20 minutes 

Asparagus 30 minutes 

Baked potatoes % hour 

Sweet potatoes % hour 

Parsnips 1 hour 

Carrots 1*4 hour 

Cabbage 2 hours 

Broiling. 

Steak, one inch thick 4 to 6 minutes 

Steak, two inches thick S to 15 minutes 

Fish, small and thin 5 to 8 minutes 

Fish, thick 15 to 25 minutes 

Chickens 20 to 30 minutes 

Meats. 

Beef, under-done, per pound 9 to 10 minutes 

Beef, fillet of 20 to 40 minutes 

Mutton, leg, per pound 10 to 12 minutes 

Mutton, stuffed shoulder, per pound. . .18 minutes 

Veal, loin, plain, per pound 15 to IS minutes 

Veal, stuffed 20 minutes 

Pork, loin, per pound 20 to 30 minutes 

Liver 1 to 1% hours 

Corned beef, per pound 25 to 30 minutes 

Beef, boiled, per pound 20 to 30 minutes 

Ham 15 to 20 minutes 

Bacon 15 minutes 

Chicken, baked, three to four pounds. 1% hours 

Turkey, ten pounds 3 hours 

Goose, eight pounds 3 hours 

Duck 40 to 60 minutes 

Grouse, pigeons, etc 30 minutes 

Fish, six to eight pounds 1 hour 

Fish, small 25 to 30 minutes 

Cooking Conditions 

"The principle ways of cooking are boiling, broil- 
ing, stewing, baking, frying, sauteing, braising, and 
fricaseeing. ' ' 

■'Boiling is cooking in boiling water. Baking is 
cooking in an oven. Frying is cooking by means of 
immersion in deep fat heated to a temperature of 350 
to 400 F. Sauteing is frying in a small quantity of 
fat. A frying pan or a griddle is used; the food is 
cooked on one side and then turned upon the other. 
Broiling may be done in well greased iron broilers over 
coals, or under the flame of a gas range on a greased 

16 



wire rack; or pan broiling may be dnne with a greased 
and hissing-hot frying pan on top of the range. Boast- 
ing is really a broiling process of the larger cuts of 
meat when done in the lower or broiling oven of the 
range. Meats cooked in the oven properly basted with 
fat from suet or bacon, although said to be roasted, 
are practically baked." 

"Stewing is cooking in a small amount of hot water 
for a long time at a low temperature; it is the most 
economical way of cooking meats, as all nutriment 
is retained, and the ordinary way of cooking the 
cheaper cuts. The fibre and the connective tisue are 
softened and the whole is made tender and palatable." 

"Braising is a combination of stewing and baking. 
Frequently, to give an additional flavor from the 
browning as well as to retain the juices, meat to be 
braised is first sauted in butter or bacon fat and vege- 
tables, with water or stock, are added to the vessel in 
which the meat is to be cooked. It is then closely 
covered and put in the oven to cook at a low tempera- 
ture for a long time." 

"Fricaseeing is a process closely akin to braising 
and another form of stewing. It is served with a sauce 
and, depending upon the nature of the meats that are 
used, there may or may not be the preliminary sauteing 
and long continued cooking in the sauce at low tem- 
perature. ' ' 

Soups. 

Stock. 

Stock is the basis of all soups or sauces. It is 
really the juice of meats extracted by long and gentle 
simmering. A shank, or other meat bones, the trim- 
mings from a dinner roast, or the carcass of a turkey 
or chicken will do to prepare a stock. Put cold water 
in your pot enough to cover the bones, add a sliced 
onion, carrot, a celery stalk, salt and a few whole 
peppers, or if you intend to keep the stocks for several 
days omit all vegetables and spices. Let it come to 
a boil, skimming off any substance which may arise to 
the surface, let it boil gently for several hours. A 
little hot water may be added from time to time to 
keep the necessary amount. It should then be strained 
and kept in an earthen vessel, never in a metal one, 
unless well tinned. This stock is then ready to be 
used for any soup or sauce. 

Consomme Soup. 

Chop 1 pound of lean beef, mix with it a sliced 
onion and carrot, 6 eggs (shells and all), and a little 
salt and pepper, mix thoroughly with 3 quarts cold 
stock, and put in a sauce pan on the range to let it 
come to a boil, skimming from time to time so that 
it may not burn. After boiling very slowly for 15 
minutes strain through a napkin, and your consomme 
will be ready to serve. If attention is paid, this soup 
should be as clear as champagne. From this con- 
somme a variety of soups can be made. 



Amber Soup or Bouillon. 

A large soup bone, 1 chicken, a small slice of ham, 
a soup bunch or an onion, 2 sprigs of parsley, half a 
small carrot, half a small parsnip, half a stick of 
celery, 3 cloves, pepper, salt, a gallon of cold water, 
whites and shells of 2 eggs, and caramel for coloring. 

Let the beef, chicken and ham boil slowly for 5 
hours; add the vegetables and cloves to cook the last 
hour, having just fried the onion in a little hot fat, 
and then in it stick the cloves. Strain the soup into 
an earthen bowl, and let it remain over night. Next 
day remove the fat, take out the jelly, avoiding the 
settlings, and mix into it the beaten whites of the 
eggs, with the shells. Boil quickly for half a minute, 
then placing the kettle on the hearth; skim off care- 
fully all the scum and whites of eggs, not stirring 
the soup itself. The soup may then be put away, and 
reheated just before serving. Add then a large table- 
spoonful of caramel, as it gives it a richer color and 
also a slight flavor. This soup may be made in a day. 
After it is strained add the eggs, and proceed as in 
recipe. However, if it is to be served at a company 
dinner it is more convenient to make it the day before. 

Asparagus Soup. 
Two bunches asparagus, boiled in two quarts of 
water; strain it. To one pint of liquor add one pint of 
cream, one ounce of butter, a pinch of red pepper, salt. 
Thicken with corn starch a little; just before serving 
add a glass of sherry. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 
Boil two stalks of celery, cut in small pieces; boil 
in 3 pints of water half an hour. Add half an onion, 
a little mace, and strain. Thicken with one table- 
spoon of flour. Add a heaped tablespoon of butter, a 
'pint of milk, salt and pepper. One cup of cream 
added before serving improves it. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 
One and a half pounds of lean veal, chopped; 1 
moderately young chicken, jointed; add 2 quarts of 
cold water, and simmer until meat is cooked; remove 
the breast of chicken, and all best part of meat; re- 
turn the bones to the pot, and boil hard for an hour; 
strain, and let cool over night. (The chicken will 
make a dozen croquettes or a nice salad, and the soup 
is just as good without it.) About an hour before 
using the soup, skim off all the fat, and put the 
"stock," which should be a jelly, into a kettle. Let 
it slowly come to a boil, salt and pepper it, add a 
cupful and a half of good sweet cream, and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of flour made smooth in a little of the 
cream. Do not boil it now, for fear of curdling. Have 
ready a cupful of celery chopped fine; stew it for half 
an hour in a little salted boiling water; drain off the 
water, and add celery to soup. Have a teaspoonful 



of cracked crumbs in the bowl, and serve immediately, 
before the crumbs are soaked. 

No. 2. Cut 3 heads of celery into % inch pieces, 
and cook in 1 quart of boiling water until soft, then 
mash in the water. Cook 1 dessertspoonful of 
chopped onion, with 1 quart of milk, in oatmeal boiler 
10 minutes, and add the celery. Eub through a strain- 
er and put on to boil again. Cook 1 tablespoonful 
each, butter and flour, together, until smooth, and stir 
into the boiling soup % teaspoonful of salt and % 
saltspoonful of pepper. Boil 5 minutes, strain and 
serve. 

Puree of Peas. 

Boil 1 quart of milk, add salt and cayenne pepper. 
Mix in bowl iy 2 heaping tablespoons of flour with 
one of butter; mix into a smooth paste. Then add 
some of the milk, making a batter. Put this mixture 
into the boiling milk, take 2 jars of French peas and 
press through a fine wire sieve. Add the boiling milk 
and then serve. 

Corn Chowder. 

One can of corn, 2 large potatoes sliced raw. Fry 
three slices of salt pork in kettle, add a layer of corn 
and a layer of potatoes, dredge with flour, add pepper, 
cover well with milk and water, and cook until well 
done. Add soda crackers on top just before serving; 
salt to taste. 

Tomato Soup. 

One quart of tomatoes, 1 onion 1 tablespoon of 
flour, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, % cup 
butter, one-third teaspoon of cayenne pepper, 3 pints 
water, 1 pint cream or milk. Boil the tomates and 
onion in water for 1 hour. Add the salt, pepper, 
sugar, butter, rubbed smoothly together like thin 
cream. Boil ten minutes, boil milk separately 10 min- 
utes. When both are boiling pour the milk into the 
tomatoes. 

No. 2. One and one-half pounds of lean beef, 1 
gallon water, boil down to 3 pints. Add 1 quart to- 
matoes, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour 
rubbed into butter the size of an egg. Boil 1 hour, 
season with salt and pepper, strain through a colander. 

Tomato Cream Soup. 
One-half a can of tomatoes, 1 quart of milk, one- 
eighth of a teaspoonful soda, l /± of a cup of butter, 
x /± of cup flour, 1% teaspoon of salt, ^ of a teaspoon 
of pepper, a teaspoon of sugar. Boil the tomatoes for 
5 minutes, take from the fire, add soda, strain, add 
sugar. Put the butter, flour, salt and pepper in the 
sauce pan and continue like white sauce, using first 
tomatoe, then milk. 

Tomato Soup, Without Stock. 
One-half pound of good butter. Let it simmer. 
Add the heart of an onion sliced, 6 cloves, 6 allspice, a 



small piece of red pepper, a blade or two of mace and 
a few sprays of parsley. When the onion is well 
browned add a quart of tomatoes chipped, or a can of 
tomatoes if it is in winter time. Cook slowly for an 
hour. Strain, and add a tablespoonful of well branned 
flour made smooth in cream — not enough cream to 
make the soup white. Of course, if you have stock, a 
cupful improves the soup, or 2 teaspoonfuls of beef 
-extract is a good substitute for stock in any vege- 
table soup. 

Cream of Clam Soup. 

Put 1 pint of water on a dozen clams and boil 
down to V> pint. Heat 1 pint of milk boiling hot and 
thicken with flour until like good cream. When ready 
to serve (not before for fear of curdling) remove the 
clams from the broth and add it to the milk. Season 
with butter and pepper. A little whipped cream im- 
proves it. 

Clam Bisque. 

Twenty-five medium sized clams, open in oven. 
Take 1 pint of juice and 1 pint of boiling water, boil 
and skim. Boil 1 pint of milk by itself. Mix 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and 3 of flour and a little salt, and 
put it in the juice and water. Take the tough tongue 
out of the clams and chop what is left. Add this and 
the hot milk to the juice and the water. When well 
heated serve. 

Potato Soup. 

Twelve good sized potatoes, put in boiling water 
with 4 onions. When boiled about % hour add % 
teaspoonful celery seed. When boiled perfectly soft 
mash through a colander. If too thick add boiling 
water until it is the consistency of thick cream. Put 
Yi pound butter in a pan, when browned add one tea- 
spoonful of flour, pour into the boiling soup, pepper 
and salt to taste. Just before serving pour in y 3 
pint of cream. 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

Grind fine 4 cans of corn; add 2 quarts of boiling 
water and simmer for 20 minutes. Then rub through 
a sieve, pressing out all that is good and leaving 
nothing but the husks of the corn. Scald 2 quarts of 
milk, with a small onion cut in slices and a few 
sprigs of parsley. Eemove the seasoning and pour 
the milk over the corn pulp. Bind with y 2 cup of 
butter and V- 2 cup of flour rubbed together. Season 
with salt and white pepper. 

Corn Soup. 
One can of corn, 1 quart of milk, 1 cupful of cream, 
butter size of an egg, mixed with a spoonful of flour. 
Beat up 2 eggs and add after taking off. 

(U ^ ' Take 6 ears, or 1 pint of sweet corn, and put in 1 
quart of water. Boil 2 hours, add 1 quart of milk, salt 
and pepper to taste. One tablespoonful of flour, made 



smooth in milk; add to the soup, with a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg. 

Bouillon. 
Use 1 pound of meat and bone to 1 pint of broth. 
Season with pepper, salt and onion if liked; best made 
the day before used, and remove all grease while cold. 
Heat to the boiling point before serving and strain 
through a thick cloth. 

Bean Soup. 
To a dish of baked beans, add a can of tomatoes, 
a little water or stock, and a meat bone of any kind if 
convenient. Boil slowly 3 or 4 hours. Season to taste. 
Strain, and serve with fried bread, nice. 

Okra Soup. 
Cut the okra in % inch pieces, and boil tender in 
chicken stock; add a cupful of boiled rice, the meat of 
a chicken cut fine. Season with salt and pepper. 
Canned okra can be used, but must not be boiled. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 
Make stock for soup of any fresh meat or salt 
pork. In another kettle boil black beans 2 hours, 
strain through a colander into the soup, adding cloves, 
summer savory, sweet marjoram, pepper and salt. 
When ready for the table add after straining a second 
time, sliced lemon, hard boiled eggs cut in slices. 

Green Pea Soup. 
Wash thoroughly % pint peas, then shell. Boil the 
pods, merely covered with water, until tender; drain 
in a colander, and put half the peas in the same water 
and cook until soft; strain again, add butter size of 
an egg, 1 cupful of milk, salt and pepper, and 1 cup- 
ful of whole peas previously boiled. This soup can 
be made without using the peas. 

Chicken with Rice. 

Clean your chicken thoroughly, and put on in cold 
water, let it boil until tender, adding from time to 
time hot water or stock to make the amount of soup 
wanted. When the chicken is done, strain the soup, 
add % pound boiled rice, cut the chicken meat in 
suitable pieces, and put in the soup. Season with salt 
and pepper. 

Drop Dumplings for Soup. 

One coffe cup of flour; scald with soup; beat hard. 
When cold add an egg and beat hard. Dip spoon in 
hot soup and drop a dumpling size of white walnut. 
Boil without cover 2 minutes in the soup. 

Meats. 

Location of the Various Cuts of Beef. 

The neck is very tough but there is a good deal of 
flavor to its meat. It is best for soups and mince meat. 

Brisket is rather tough but is very good for stew, 
pot roast and corned beef. 



Chuck is tough. It is sometimes used for steak and 
is good for stew and pot roast. 

The beef is cut at the third rib. The first five ribs 
are prime; the next four ribs are used for roast, but 
are not as good. 

The plate has a good deal of grissle and bone. It is 
generally rather lean and is only used for stew and 
corned beef. 

Naval is very much like plate, but has no bone and 
may be used for stew and corned beef. 

Porterhouse is very good for steak and roast. (Very 
tender.) 

Sirloin is good also for steak and roast. 

Eump is very tough. ^„ may be used for steak, but 
is better for stew, pot roast or corned beef. 

Bound, rather tough, but very juicy and good fla- 
vored. It is used for steak, hamburg steak, stew, pot 
roast, corned beef, beef juice and extracts for beef 
teas. 

Soup bone and any meat from the leg is tough, lean 
and coarse grained, with very little flavor. It is used 
for soup stock and corned beef, also for stew. 

The tail is used for nothing but soups. 

Tongue is good, especially for cold meat and sand- 
wiches, and braised tongue. 

Methods of Preparation Explained. 

Roasting. 

Underfed meat contains excessive amounts of water, 
which is driven off when subjected to heat; therefore 
be sure that the meat looks fat and thus economize. 

Have your meat about an inch from the bottom of 
the pan and supported upon a rack so that the juice will 
collect below. Cover the meat with as little flour as 
possible to give a dry surface and to insure the forma- 
tion of a crust or shell after it has been subjected to 
heat. This will prevent undue loss of juice from the 
meat and keep it tender. It will also serve as a protec- 
tion to the fats, which when cooked to a crisp are very 
indigestible. Also rub the meat well with salt and 
pepper. If the meat is lean add a little lard, pieces of 
fat pork or its own fat. Do not add water until within 
an hour before it is to be removed from the oven — it is 
far better not to use any while the meat is in the pan, 
although after it has been removed it is advisable to 
add enough to remove the fats and glaze that have 
formed in the bottom of the pan. This broth can be 
used "au jus" or with a little flour in addition it can 
be used as "brown gravy." 

Braising. 
It is the best method of cookirig meats that are 
lacking in flavor or are tough. A braising kettle is the 
proper utensil for this method. It should have a tight 
fitting cover. The covered "roasters" are really brais- 
ing kettles because their covers fit tight enough to con- 



fine the steam, thereby causing the meat to be cooked 
in its own vapor. This is very much the same principle 
that is used in the "paper bag" method. A little acid, 
lemon juice, will greatly aid in the process of cooking 
by helping to make the meat tender. Flavor may be 
obtained by cooking vegetables with the meat. 

Broiling. 
A hot fire is a necessity. The double broiler is the 
best utensil because it retains the juice that necessarily 
would be lost by the older method. The meat must not 
be broken or cut after it starts to cook because every 
incision allows the juice to run out of the meat. When 
broiling over a gas flame it is necessary to turn the 
meat only once, but when broiling over an open fire it 
is advisable to turn the meat every 15 seconds. 

Boiling. 
The principle of this method is to subject the meat 
to a great heat at first in order to form a crust that 
will prevent the hardening of the fats and gelatins; 
then, when such a crust is formed allow the tempera- 
ture to drop to about 170 F. and then let it remain 
at that heat until it has become softened and thorough- 
ly cooked. Let the meat cool in its own juice and it 
will be extremely palatable. 

Frying. 
To obtain the best results it is necessary that the 
meat or fish to be fried should have a coating of some- 
thing that is readily crusted by fat, i. e., egg and bread 
crumbs. This coating prevents the hardening of the 
meat tissue. The fat wants to be rather hot before the 
meat or fish is put into it; there should also be enough 
to float or cover the meat. It is best to only add the 
meat a little at a time because it will then hold its 
heat. Lard and drippings are the popular fats for this 
kind of cooking, but so much better satisfaction may 
be obtained from frying in cottolene oil that it is worth 
the added expense. 

Larding. 
Cut a piece of salt pork into strips about a quarter 
inch in width and thickness and as long as the piece 
of pork, then with a larding needle draw the strips 
through the top of the roast, taking short, deep stitches 
and setting in alternate rows. 

Daubing. 
This is easier to do than larding, but does not give 
as neat an appearance. Cut strips of fat salt pork 
about a quarter inch thick and wide and as long as the 
meat. Cut a slit through the roast and draw these 
strips of pork through them until they show on the 
other side. 



Preparation of Meats. 

MANNER AND TIME REQUIRED TO COOK. 
Roast Beef. 

Use a covered roaster. 

The best pieces for the roast are cuts from the por- 
terhouse or the front cut of the sirloin. The bones may- 
be removed and the beef made into a roll by rolling the 
flank toward the backbone and sewing with a large 
needle and twine, through the tough covering. Many 
prefer to leave the bones and roast standing. Do not 
wash but sponge with a wet cloth. Rub with salt and 
then with sufficient flour to give a dry surface. If a 
brown gravy is desired put a tablespoon or two of flour 
in the bottom of the pan, put on the rack, serving side 
down at first. The oven should be hot and the top sur- 
face thoroughly browned in one hour. If you do not 
have a covered "roaster" watch carefully, basting 
every 15 minutes. When the top surface is well 
browned turn it over; when both sides are brown put 
in water enough to cover the bottom of the pan. Allow 
10 to 12 minutes per pound for cooking. When the meat 
is done remove to the plate and place in a warming 
oven while making the gravy. Pour off the fat, add 
14 pint of hot water to the sediment, stir thoroughly 
and allow to come to a boil, then add a thickening 
made of 2 teaspoons of flour rubbed smooth with 4 tea- 
spoons of water, adding slowly until the proper thick- 
ness is obtained. Boil well and season to taste, strain 
into the gravy bowl. 

No. 2. If the meat you have is of the poorer cuts 
or lean it will be very much improved by rubbing well 
with the following mixture: 4 tablespoons salad oil, 2 
tablespoons chopped parsley, 1 onion sliced thin, 2 bay 
leaves, juice of % a lemon; rub well into the meat and 
allow to stand 12 to 24 hours, coating over the meat 2 
or 3 times and use the same mixture to baste while 
roasting. 

Fillet of Beef Larded. 

It is the tenderloin. A short fillet weighs 2% to 3 
pounds and will suffice in a course dinner for ten people. 
First remove every shred of the ligaments and thin 
tough covering. Draw a line through the center and 
lard with 2 rows of pork. Dredge with salt, pepper and 
flour and put without water in a small pan; the oven 
must be hot, and it will cook in 30 minutes. Put in the 
lower part of the oven the first 10 minutes and then 
on the upper grate. Serve with mushroom or tomato 
sauce. The trimmings from the fillet if fat can be used 
for frying, the lean part can be used for soup stock. 

Pot Roast. 
Select from the brisket, chuck, rump or round, place 
in a hot frying pan fat, either beef or butter, adding if 
wished a sliced onion after first wiping meat with a wet 
cloth, searing all the surfaces in the hot frying pan and 
turning till all the surface is browned. Put in a kettle 



ft 



with 1 cup of boiling water and place where it will keep 
just below the boiling point. Add enough water from 
time to time to keep from burning. The cover must fit 
closely to keep in the steam; cook until tender, but do 
not let it break; serve with thickened gravy, or it is 
very good cold. It may be warmed over in hot butter. 

Steak. 

For a good, rich, juicy steak get it at least % inch 
thick, trim off the suet, cook in a double broiler for 10 
minutes if it is to be rare done, 12 minutes if to be well 
done, turning frequently. Serve on a hot dish with 
butter and salt. 

■"an Broiled Steak. 

Prepare meat as above. Heat an iron frying Ismok- 
ing hot, using the suet trimmed off to grease the pan. 
Sprinkle the steak with salt and lay in the pan, sear 
each side quickly, then set back to cook more slowly 
for about 4 or 6 minutes, turning frequently. When 
done put on a hot platter and pour over it the contents 
of the frying pan, to which 2 or 3 tablespoons of hot 
water have been added. 

Hamburger Steak. 

Chop the round beef fine, season with salt, pepper 
and a little onion. Make into small, flat patties and 
broil in a well greased hot frying pan. Serve very hot, 
with the juice of the pan dissolved in hot water, a little 
butter on each pattie may be added. 

Beefsteak Smothered in Onions. 
Trim the steak, putting the suet in a hot frying pan. 
Add the required amount of sliced onions, season with 
salt and cover tightly, stirring from time to time until 
the onions are well done; the steak may be broiled in a 
broiler or in another frying pan, as directed above. 
Pour the onions over the steak and serve. 

Corned Beef. 

It may be selected from the brisket, plate, naval, 
rump or round. The best pieces are lean beef well 
streaked with fat, and should be freshly corned. Beef 
that has been corned 3 days is best. 

Wash meat well in water; put in kettle with plenty 
of water; simmer until very tender. It may be served 
hot or cold. If it is desired cabbage cut in quarters 
may be cooked with the meat and the whole served as 
a boiled dinner. 

Beef Stew. 

Take 1 pound and % from the brisket, chuck, plate, 
naval, round or leg, and cut it into 2-inch cubes, and 
add 1% pints water, 1 sliced onion. Allow to simmer 
for 2 hours, then add 4 potatoes cut in cubes; after 15 
minutes add a cup of strained tomatoes and cook for 15 
minutes. Then heat the stew to boiling, and thicken 
with 2 tablespoons of flour rubbed with 4 tablespoons 
of cold water. Salt and pepper to taste and boil for 5 
minutes. Carrots and turnips may be added to the stew 
about 1 hour before the meat is done. 



Mutton, lamb or veal may be cooked in this manner. 
If the mutton is fat some must be cut off. In case of 
veal add 2 slices of salt pork. 

Roll Flank Steak. 

Trim a flank steak or iy 2 pounds of the top of the 
round. Make a stuffing of 1 cup of bread crumbs, 2 
tablespoons of melted butter, 1 chopped onion, 2 table- 
spoons of melted butter, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, 
y-2 teaspoon salt, 1 saltspoon pepper, 1 cup hot water. 
Spread the stuffing on the meat, roll it up and tie with 
a string. Take 2 or 3 slices of suet, a small sliced 
onion and V± an ordinary sized carrot cut in cubes. Put 
the carrot, onion and suet in the baking pan, lay the 
steak on it and add 1 cup boiling water, cover closely 
in a hot oven for 20 minutes, then uncover and cook for 
30 minutes. Serve with gravy made from liquid in the 
pan. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 
Roast Lamb. 

Choose a thick shoulder. Remove the shoulder blade 
and leg bone, and rub with salt and finely chopped mint. 
Smear on the outside with melted butter and dust with 
flour. Put in a very hot oven until flour is brown, then 
reduce the heat and baste frequently. Turn it over in 
% of an hour. Four pounds of meat requires 1 hour 
to roast. Remove the meat to a hot platter, drain off 
the fat and stir in 2 tablespoons of flour; then heat 
till well browned, add a pint of water in which the 
bones have been boiled and stir until smooth, season 
to taste, and add a tablespoon of lemon juice, strain 
and serve in a gravy bowl. 

Spring Lamb with Mint Sauce. 

Take a hind leg of lamb, put in a covered roaster, 
baste frequently with the exudate and a little salted 
water. Cook 10 minutes to a pound. The mint sauce 
should be made several hours before serving, as follows: 

Three tablespoons of young mint leaves chopped 
fine, mix with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, pour 6 
tablespoons of cider vinegar over the mint slowly. 

Broiled Leg of Mutton. 
Remove the fat from the leg, put on chopping board 
and beat to a pulp. Fold it into a slab V- 2 inch thick, 
broil in a well greased gridiron, turning often, and cook 
it very rare. Serve hot with butter and salt. 

Haricot. 

tut all fat from the chops, flour them well, and 
brown them with onion. Cover with water and stew 
for 2 hours, slowly. Then add tomato, salt and pepper 
to suit taste. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

Cover the leg with hard boiling water, salt and skim 
off the scum that rises to prevent discoloration of the 
meat if it should come in contact with it. It requires 
but only 2 hours for a medium sized leg to boil. To ac- 



company this, serve a puree of young turnips with 
melted butter sauce or French peas. 
Mutton Stew. 

(See Beef Stew.) 

Mutton a la Creole. 

Procure the breast of a mutton, or lamb, if mutton 
is too fat; chop into % inch square pieces; put in 
sauce pan with y 2 pound butter, and fry all to a nice 
brown color; mix in 1 cupful of flour, and pour over it 
1 gallon of hot stock; let it boil 2 hours; add 1 can 
tomatoes; % pound rice previously cooked; % an onion 
cut fine and fried in butter; a little celery cut fine. 
Season with 1 teaspoonful of curry powder; salt and 
pepper to taste. 

VEAL. 
Roast Fillet of Veal. 

Take 4 to 6 pounds, % cup of butter (or beef suet), 
Vi teaspoon pepper, tablespoon salt, juice of 1 lemon, 
stuff with very finely chopped ham that has been forced 
through a colander and mixed with equal parts of the 
following: Cream, milk or stock, 2 parts, and 1 part of 
bread crumbs, cooked until it has become a smooth 
paste. Mix with % the amount of butter. Then fill 
the cavity left by the removal of the bone with the 
above filling. Tie into round shape. Cut % pound salt 
pork into thin slices, cover the bottom of the dripping 
pan with y 2 of it, put the fillet on it and with the 
remainder of the pork cover the veal. Cover the bot- 
tom of the pan with hot water and place in the oven, 
bake slowly for 3 hours, basting frequently with the 
gravy in the pan. Be sure to keep sufficient water in 
the pan to prevent burning. After it has been cook- 
ing for 2 hours remove the pork from the fillet and 
spread thickly with butter, covering with flour. Ee- 
peat this in 30 minutes. Take the remainder of the 
butter, put in a sauce pan and when hot add 2 heaping 
teaspoons of flour. Remove the fillet and skim off the 
fat of the gravy, taking the remainder and making it 
to 1 pint with water, add the sauce just made, bring to 
a boil, add the juice of % a lemon, salt and pepper to 
taste and pour over the veal. Garnish with potato puff 
and slices of lemon. 

No. 2. Take 4 to 6 pounds of a breast of veal, 
boned, sponged and pounded to uniform thickness, 
cover with salt and pepper, and lay on a board; spread 
evenly with dressing to within an inch of the edge. 
Roll loosely and tie. Sprinkle well with flour and lay 
on a rack in a dripping pan, laying thin narrow strips 
of fat salt pork over the top of the veal. Set on a 
grate in a very hot oven until the surface is well 
browned, then bake more slowly, covering with a but- 
tered paper if it bakes too fast. Allow y 2 hour per 
pound. Baste every 20 minutes with the dripping in 
the pan, adding enough water to prevent burning. The 
dressing to be used is made as follows: 1 pint fine 
bread or cracker crumbs, 1 level teaspoon salt, 1 table- 



spoon thyme or summer savory, y 2 teaspoon white pep- 
per, y 2 teaspoon onion juice, moisten with 1 egg, well 
beaten, 2 heaping tablespoons butter melted in 1 cup of 
hot water, or salt pork chopped fine, may be used in 
place of butter. 

Veal Loaf. 

No. 1. Two and one-half pounds minced veal from 
the leg, 2 eggs, well beaten, 2 teaspoons pepper, 2 tea- 
spoons of salt, two-thirds grated nutmeg, 3 rolled 
crackers, 1 tablespoon cream, butter the size of a small 
egg, mix together and make into a loaf. Eoast and 
baste like other meats. It is improved by pouring over 
it a cup of stewed tomatoes. 

No. 2. Three pounds of chopped veal, % pound of 
salt pork, 6 Boston crackers rolled fine, 1 egg beaten. 
Pepper and salt to taste; a little thyme if desired. Mix 
thoroughly. Form into a loaf. Bake 3 hours, basting 
frequently. 

Veal Pot Pie. 

One quart pieces of cold cooked veal, add a scant 
teaspoon salt, % saltspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon shredded 
onion, place in a 2 quart pan. Fill almost to top with 
meat gravy, stock or water, cover and set on top of 
stove to heat while making crust. Crust is, 1 quart 
flour, 1 even teaspoon salt, 1 heaping tablespoon butter 
well rubbed together; mix quickly with enough cold 
milk to make a soft dough. Shape on molding board 
to fit pan, cut holes to allow steam to escape and lay 
on the boiling meat. Bake 40 minutes in a hot oven. 

Sweet Breads. 

To clean, carefully remove all tough fibrous skin, 
put in a dish of cold water for 15 minutes, boil in 
slightly salted water with a little lemon juice for 20 
minutes. 

Sweet Breads Larded and Baked. 

Clean, draw through each 4 very thin slices of pork 
(size of a match). Drop them into cold water for 10 
minutes, then into hot water and boil 20 minutes. Be- 
move, spread with butter, salt and pepper and bake 20 
minutes in a quick oven. Serve with green peas drain- 
ed, seasoned with salt and butter, poured in the center 
of the dish. Arrange sweet breads around edge and 
pour cream sauce outside of the sweet breads. Garnish 
with parsley. 

Sweet Breads Fried. 

Soak sweet breads in salt and water to draw out 
the blood. Boll in salted corn meal. Fry in lard suffi- 
cient to cover the bottom of frying pan, cook thor- 
oughly. 

Pork. 

In buying and cooking pork be sure that the meat 
is young and not overloaded with fat, and that it 
should be well cooked, at least 20 minutes to the 
pound. 



Eoast Pork. 

The loin, spareribs and chine are the best roasting 
pieces. Eub well with salt, pepper, sage and flour and 
bake 20 minutes to the pound. Baste often and do not 
have the oven as hot as would be necessary for other 
meats. 

Pork Tenderloin. 

Split them nearly through so that they will lie 
nearly flat when doubled. Cover y 2 of the piece with 
dressing, fold the other half over it and sew the edges 
together. Bake. Dressing, bread, salt, pepper, onion, 
butter and a little sage. 

No. 2. Split open and broil. Brown thoroughly but 
do not burn. Season with pepper, salt and one sage 
leaf for each one. If too dry, rub with butter. 

Boiled Ham. 

After cleaning put it into a boiler and cover it well 
with water. It should be 2 hours coming to a boil, 
then it should simmer for about 20 minutes to the 
pound. Allow it to cool in the pot or at least stand 2 
hours before finishing in the oven. It should not stay 
in a quick oven more than 29 minutes. 

There are many ways to boil a ham but in using 
any method be sure to heat and cook slowly and to 
allow it to cool in its own liquor. 

Broiled Ham. 

If very salty, cover with water and set back on the 
stove, where it will come to a slow boil. Then remove 
some of the fat if there is too much, put in the frying 
pan and allow to dry out as is done in cooking bacon; 
put the ham in the pan and cook until well done. If 
the pan and grease are hot, and you have a quick fire, 
about two to four minutes to a side will be required to 
cook the ham enough. 

Bacon and Liver. 
Cook the bacon as you would ordinarily cook it for 
breakfast. Cut the liver in slices *4 to $ inches thick 
and parboil for 6 minutes; then dry and roll in flour. 
Put them in the hot bacon fat and when they have 
browned they will be done enough. 

ENTREES. 
Hash. 
Best meat for hash are the left overs of stew or 
corned beef, but any scraps of cold meat may be used, 
taking pains to cook any tough bits tender. Chop even- 
ly but not too fine, using about % fat meat. Add an 
equal quantity of chopped potatoes. Put into a pan 1 
cup of stock or gravy, adding enough water to make 1 
cup for each pint of hash; add a teaspoon of butter 
and the hash as soon as the stock boils, stir only suffi- 
cient to mix well and set over a moderate fire until 
browned on the bottom. Fold over like an omelet and 
serve hot. 



Baked Hash. 

Prepare like the above, adding more seasoning, an 
onion, catsup, Worcestershire sauce, etc. Put in a well 
buttered baking dish and cook until brown. Serve in 
the dish as baked. 

Calves Brains. 

Gut the lobes in two, soak in cold, salt water 1 hour, 
then cover with hot water and skin them. Dip in egg 
and milk, roll in bread crumbs, and fry slowly in plenty 
of hot fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Jellied Tongue. 

Boil until done a large smoked beef tongue, saving a 
pint of the liquor; remove the skin, allow it to get per- 
fectly cold, and slice as for the table. In half a pint of 
water dissolve thoroughly 2 ounces of gelatine; care- 
fully take from a teacupful of browned veal gravy all 
the grease, stir in a small tablespoonful of sugar, 1 of 
burned sugar to color the jelly, and 3 of vinegar; then 
the liquor in which the tongue was boiled. Mix in well 
the dissolved gelatine, then a pint of boiling water. 
Strain through a jelly bag. As soon as it begins to 
set, pour a little jelly into the bottom of the mould, 
add a layer of tongue, then more jelly, until it is full. 
Set in a cold place to harden. When wanted, dip the 
mould an instant in hot water, and turn into a gar- 
nished dish. 

Poultry Dressing. 

For a roast chicken of 4 pounds take a cup of coarse 
cracker crumbs, add V^ cup butter, season well, salt, 
pepper, sage or thyme. 

For an 8 pound turkey, 1 quart of stale bread 
crumbs, melt % cup butter and mix well, season well 
with pepper, salt, sage or savory or other desired herbs. 

Chestnut Dressing for Turkey. Trim % pound raw 
lean veal. Remove the covering of same weight of leaf 
lard, chop both very fine, then pound and mix till well 
blended. Moisten with % pint stock, add 1 teaspoon 
salt, saltspoon pepper, 4 dozen chestnuts, lanced and 
boiled. Fill the turkey breast and body. One cup of 
this dressing may be saved, thoroughly mashed and 
used to thicken the gravy. 

Duck Dressing. One-half pound onions chopped fine, 
add 3 tablespoons stale bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon pow- 
dered sage, the liver of the duck parboiled and minced. 
Season with pepper, salt and cayenne to taste. 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken. 
Chop apples, or ripe pears; season with bread 
crumbs; mix a small quantity of nutmeg, salt and but- 
ter. All bread crums should be of a light stale loaf, 
free from crusts, not hard or soaked bread. 

Stuffing for Birds. 
Have good bread, moderately stale, crumb it fine 
and pour a little water on it. Don't soak it. For 6 
quails take 2 cups of bread crumbs. Take 2 table- 



spoons of butter, put in a pan, melt it, fry half an 
onion in it, a sprig of parsley, 2 cloves, 4 allspice, a 
blade of mace, 2 black peppers, and some celery seed 
(unless you have fresh celery). Skim out the spices 
after 15 minutes; pour the butter over the bread, add 
pepper and salt if necessary. This is good stuffing for 
everything except ducks. A spoonful of chopped raw 
celery is good added to the stuffing, or a couple of small 
oysters in each quail improves them. 

Poultry. 

Foreword. 

All game with dark meat — quail, grouse, duck, etc. — 
should be cooked rare, whereas turkey, chicken, or the 
light meated animals, should be cooked well. Poultry 
is not as nutritious as the meats, but the change of 
flavor makes it very agreeable. 

Selection. 

Be sure that the bird is in proportion to its size, 
that is, that the meaty part corresponds in weight to 
•the skeleton. Birds with prominent breast bones are 
not economical, as these types generally are not of 
proportionate weight. The skin of a good fowl is 
clean, moist and delicate, with the feet a good yellow. 
An old fowl has a coarse skin, heavily scaled feet, and 
as a rule they are too fat. The cock is more highly 
flavored than the hen, although the meat is not as ten- 
der or as finely fibred. The comb of the cock identifies 
it from the hen. The above will aid in the judging of 
turkeys. 

Ducks and geese should be about a year old to be 
the best. Their breasts should be firm and full. The 
wings and webbing should be tender to the touch and 
the fat soft and white. The windpipe should crack 
when pinched, otherwise the meat is likely to be tough. 

Squabs have pink legs and light, reddish colored 
flesh on the breasts. The breast meat of the old pigeon 
is very dark. The young pigeon also has an abund- 
ance of pin feathers. 

Grouse, quail and partridge should have yellowish 
bills, dark legs and plump, full breasts. 

Broiled Chicken. 
Split the bird down the back, crush the breast bone 
and pin the wings and legs as close to the body as 
possible, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Bub inside and 
out with soft butter before laying on the broiler. Cook 
the inside next to the coals first as long as possible 
without burning, then turn and cook the outside till 
the skin is of a pretty brown. When both sides have 
been cooked as above start turning them often until 
well done. It will take from 20 to 30 minutes for a 
broiler to be cooked properly. A cover, a pan, helps 
the bird to cook faster. Serve on a hot platter after 
buttering it well. 



Boiled Chicken. 
With a chicken of about 4 pounds put 1 pound of fat 
bacon. Put in a suitable kettle and cover well with 
water. When it begins to cook, very carefully skim 
the scum that rises and after it has ceased to rise set 
the kettle back a little from the fire so that the chicken 
will just slowly simmer. Allow it to remain this way 
for about 3 hours, or until it is nearly ready to fall 
apart. Add salt to taste, about % hour before taking 
it up. Keep it on a hot dish while you cook the liquor 
down to about a pint. Skim off all the fat from the 
liquor, add flour until it becomes the right thickness 
for gravy. (By adding a little vegetable and boiled 
rice to the broth, if gravy is not desired, a very fine 
soup may be obtained.) 

Roast Chicken. 
Put the chicken on a rack in the dripping pan, brush 
with butter and dredge with flour. Set in a very hot 
oven till browned, then reduce the heat. Keep turning 
the fowl over so that it may become properly and uni- 
formly cooked all over. Baste with butter till it be- 
comes browned, and also add 1 pint of water, which 
should be renewed as necessary. Dredge with flour at 
every alternate basting. It ought to take about 1% 
hours for a medium sized chicken to cook. 

Chicken Pie. 
Divide the chicken into pieces, allow these to boil 
for about 20 minutes until they are only part done. 
Take the chicken out and fry two or more pieces of salt 
pork in the kettle. Put the chicken back and add 1 
cup of water, 2% ounces butter, 1 teaspoon salt, pepper 
to taste, and cover with a crust, the same as for biscuit. 
Bake in an oven that is hotter at the top than at the 
bottom. When the crust is well risen cover with a 
buttered paper so as to prevent its burning before the 
?est of the pie is done. Eemove the fat from the first 
water that the meat boiled in, add a little flour till 
thickened, add a cup of cream, season to taste and when 
the pie is done pour this gravy through the holes in the 
crust previously cut to allow the steam to escape. 

Fricasseed Chicken. 
White- Brown over a quick fire in butter. Cover 
with boiling water and allow to simmer till tender. 
Time, about 45 minutes. Reduce the stock to about 1 
pint and add 1 tablespoon of butter and 2 of flour. Sea- 
son with y 2 teaspoon celery salt and salt and pepper 
to taste. Add 1 cup of hot cream and pour over 1 well 
beaten egg, stirring well. Arrange the chicken to suit 
taste, garnish and add the stock. 

Fried Chicken. 
Quarter. Season with salt, pepper and dredge with 
flour. Fry in hot fat until well browned on both sides. 
Cover and set back to slowly cook for about 15 min- 
utes. 



Roast Turkey. 
Allow 2 hours for an 8 pound turkey. For other 
directions see Eoast Chicken. 

Roast Goose. 
Use the duck dressing. Cover the breast with a but- 
tered paper for an hour. Soak the giblets in salt 
water, pour on boiling water and cook gently till ten- 
der, chop, and add to the gravy, removing all of the fat. 
Brown 2 level tablespoons of flour in it, adding stock 
or water to make 1 pint. Garnish the goose with j 
pies cooked as follows: Take small round sour apples, 
peal smoothly, and brown in sugar and butter, 1 table- 
spoon per 6 apples. Stew in broth enough to cover; re- 
move as soon as tender. Boil the broth down to a 
sauce and pour over the apples. 

Roast Duck. 

Use the duck dressing. 

Clean and tie the legs across the back, stuff and 
tie the wings close to the side. Boast from 30 to 45 
minutes. Serve with a good brown gravy, with apple 
sauce. 

Broiled Squab. 

Singe, draw and split down the back. Crack the 
large bones and flatten. Season and broil slowly. Serve 
on dry toast with melted butter poured over it. Garnish 
with water cress. 

Game. 

Broiled Rabbit. 

Skin and lay in salt water to sweeten. Prepare 
like chicken and cook over hot fire. Season and pour 
over melted butter, mixed with 2 tablespoons vinegar 
and 1 of mixed mustard. 

Squirrel Pot Pie. 

Two squirrels skinned and cleaned and cut into 
pieces. Roll in flour and fry brown in a good fat. Add 
1 pint boiling water, 1 minced onion, V± lemon, sliced 
thin, 1 teaspoon salt and V 2 pepper. Pry the minced 
onion brown in a spoon of butter, and add to water. 
Cover closely and stew for 1 hour. Pour into a pan, 
make a baking powder biscuit crust, cutting the bis- 
cuits round and laying them on top of the stew. Put 
all in the oven and bake till the crust is done. If de- 
sired a thickening can be added before putting on the 
crust. 

Fish. 
Selection. 

Small fish should be fried, medium sized fish are 
better, broiled, baked or split. Large fish are usually 
better steamed or boiled. 

The gills should be bright and clear red. The eyes 
should be full and the body firm and stiff. 
Preparation. 

Before cooking they should be well washed and kept' 
il salt water for a time, although they should never 



be allowed to stand in water for any length of time. 
They should always be kept on ice till used. 

To Broil. Large fish should be split down the 
back. Use a double wire, well greased broiler. Dust 
well with salt and pepper and put the fiesh side next 
to the fire first until it is almost done, then turn the 
skin side toward the heat till it becomes nicely brown- 
ed. Large, thick fish require from 15 to 20 minutes 
broiling. Small fish require from 5 to 10 minutes. It 
must be watched closely so as to prevent burning. 
When done pour on melted butter and set in warmnig 
oven for a few minutes to give the butter time to 
penetrate the flesh. Garnish with any fresh greens. 

Halibut, Broiled. 

Season with salt and pepper, lay in melted butter 

for Mj hour, be sure that it is well covered on both 

sides. Eoll in flour and broil for 10 minutes. Serve 

with slices of lemon. 

Baking Fish. 

Whitefish, bass, pike, pickerel, etc., are the best 
baking fish, because the meat is white. 

Eub well with salt, stuff and sew, leaving an end 
that may be found when the fish is done. Gash the 
sides and put in them strips of fat salt pork. Eub 
with salt, pepper and butter, dredge with flour and; 
put it into a hot oven without water. Baste with hot 
water and butter as soon as it begins to brown, and 
repeat every 10 minutes. Eemove very carefully when! 
done and put on a hot platter. Draw the string and 
remove all water and adherent fat, also the pork. 
Serve the fish garnished with parsley with bits of 
lemon around it. 

Panned Fish. 

This method of cooking is best for small fish. 
Clean well, rub over with salt and roll in flour or 
fine bread crumbs. Heat frying pan hot with just 
enough grease to keep fish from sticking. When the fat 
begins to smoke lay in the fish and cook quickly on 
both sides till brown. Then set back cover carefully 
and cook from 10 to 20 minutes, according to size of 
fish. 

Fried Fish. 

Eemove the backbone, season, and roll in white! 
corn meal. Take 1 cup fat, heat, lay the fish in the 
hot fat and cook brown on each side. Drain on soft 
paper, spread with butter and garnish with slices of 
lemon. 

Creamed Cod Fish. 

Wash thoroughly and soak in cold water. Change 
the water and heat. As soon as it begins to boil set 
where it will keep hot but not boiling. Take § table- 
spoon butter, put it in a pan, add slowly 2 tablespoons 
sifted flour, stir and rub smooth, add 1 pint milk, 
stirring all the time. Bring to a boil and add thei 
cooked cod fish, using enough of the liquor to salt. 



Fish Balls. 
One cup of raw fish, 1 pint small pared potatoes, 
1 egg, butter the size of an egg and a little pepper. 
Cut the fish across the grain in slices % inch thick. 
Put the potatoes in the kettle with the fish on top, 
cover with boiling water and boil % hour. Strain off 
the water and mash fish and potatoes together, beat 
until fine and light, then add butter and pepper and 1 
egg well beaten. Have a kettle of boiling fat, dip a 
tablespoon in it and take some of the mixture, shap- 
ing as well as possible, drop in the boiling fat and 
cook till brown. Dip spoon in the fat every time you 
add mixture; be sure that the fat is hot enough. 

Cod Fish Balls. 
One pint of cod fish minced fine and scalded; 1 
quart of hot boiled potatoes mashed fine (better put 
through a potato sifter); mix with fish; add butter, 
14 of a cup, about as much cream, a little pepper and 
two well beaten eggs. Keep all as hot as possible. 
Beat together with a fork. Eoll lightly in flour and 
fry like doughnuts in very hot lard and beef drip- 
pings, half of each. 

Broiled Cod Fish. 

Soak and cut in pieces two or three inches square; 
dry and broil; after broiling put in a cloth, and pound 
with a mallet till the fibres are loosened and sepa- 
rated. Pour on boiling water and strain off. Put on 
butter and set in the oven a little while before serv- 
ing. 

Turbot a la Creme. 

Boil a large whitefish; pick it up fine; make a sauce 
of a quart of milk, a little thyme, a few sprigs of 
parsley, a little onion; simmer together till well fla- 
vored; wet 2 tablespoons of flour, and stir in with a 
half cup of butter until it thickens; then strain it on 
the yolks of 2 eggs; season with pepper and salt. Put 
some of the sauce in a pudding dish, then a layer of 
fish, and so on until the dish is full, putting sauce on 
top; cover with rolled crackers; brown in the oven. 

Salmon Jelly. 
Make clear lemon jelly according to any good re- 
cipe, omitting sugar. Add salt and a very little white 
pepper if desired. Fill mould and drop in nice pieces 
of salmon. It makes a pretty salad to use small 
moulds, placing in the bottom of each a slice of lemon. 
Garnish with tiny lettuce leaves, and place on each 
dish a spoonful of mayonaise. 

Oysters. 

Oyster Stew. 

Pour off 1 cup of the liquor, add % cup of water, 

boil, skim, add V2 teaspoon salt, y 2 saltspoon pepper, 

tablespoon butter, tablespoon rolled cracker; when it 

begins to boil add 1 pint oysters, boil 1 minute. Put 



y-2 cup cream or cold milk into the tureen and pour 
stew over it. 

Dry Stew of Oysters. 
Put oysters in a sauce pan, and let them come to a 
boiling point very quickly; skim off substance which 
rises to the surface; season with salt and pepper; add 
a little butter; boil for one-half a minute and serve. 

Broiled Oysters. 
Take the largest oysters, scald, dry on a towel, dip 
into melted butter and then into flour; lay them on a 
buttered broiler and cook until light brown. Serve 
on thin slices buttered toast. If a gas stove is used 
lay toast under the broiler to catch the drip. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
One pint oyster meat, cleaned and drained, ^4 cup 
butter, y 2 cup grated bread crumbs, % cup coarse 
cracker crumbs. Grease the pan well with butter and 
sprinkle on the layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of 
oysters and bread, using the crackers for the top. Sea- 
son each layer of oysters with a little salt and butter, 
pepper to taste. A tablespoon of lemon juice mixed 
with x /± cup oyster liquor and pour over, let stand for 
1 hour. If it looks too dry add more of the juice be- 
fore baking. Bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

Maryland Fried Oysters. 

Drain the liquor entirely off the oysters; then lay 
them on a brown linen towel, and dry them. Have 
frying pan hot, and put in plenty of lard and butter 
in equal quantities. 

Break an egg, and take a plate and beat it up, 
yellow and white together; put some pepper in; then 
dip oysters first in egg, then in cracker dust, and 
when the frying pan with butter and lard is scalding 
hot, fry them until they are a light brown color, that 
is until they begin to brown. Be careful and don't 
fry them too much. 

Croquettes. 

Rice Croquettes with Jam. 

Boil the rice soft; to 1 pint of rice add 2 eggs; 
mould in oblong rolls; cut open with a thin pointed 
knife; take out a little rice, and fill with jam; roll in 
sifted cracker, using as little cracker as possible; fry 
in fresh lard; then powder with sugar. Makes a nice 
lunch dish. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

One pound salmon, boiled 20 minutes and chopped 
fine. Add one-third as much bread crumbs, 1 egg, 
melted butter size of walnut, 1 tablespoon Worcester- 
shire sauce, a little red pepper and a little salt. Add 
1 cup of soup stock. Shape and dip in egg, then in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Lobster Croquettes. 
Mince the meat of the lobsters fine; season with 
salt and pepper. Melt a piece of butter in a sauce pan; 



mix with it 1 tablespoon of flour; add lobster and a 
little finely chopped parsley; add a little stock also, and 
let it come to a boil. Eemove from the fire and stir 
in the yolks of 2 eggs. Spread this mixture on a 
platter, and when cold mould into croquette shapes| 
Dip carefully in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, 
and fry to a rich brown color in hot lard. 

Chicken Croquettes. 
No. 1. Mince very fine 1 cold chicken and 2 sweet 
breads previously parboiled (a little rice may be sub- 
stituted for the sweet breads). Season with salt, pep- 
per and a little nutmeg (a very little onion). Take 1 
tumbler of cream, 2 tablespoons of butter, 4 table- 
spoons of flour, a little salt. Mix and boil, then stir 
in the minced meat, also some of the broth in which 
the chicken was cooked. When cold take a spoonful 
of the mixture and roll into shape. Dip them in the 
beaten yolk of an egg and cracker crumbs. Drop into 
hot lard (in frying basket), cook a light brown. This 
recipe makes one and a half dozen croquettes. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

No. 2. One-fourth pound of butter, % pint of sweet 
cream, 3 tablespoons of stock, 3 tablespoons of flour, 
% pint of chicken stock, y± can of mushrooms, the 
juice of half a lemon. Boil the chicken, let it cool, cut 
the meat in small pieces and chop the mushrooms. Melt 
the butter in sauce pan, stir in flour, cream and stock, 
stirring until it boils; take it off the fire, add stock, 
seasoning chicken and mushrooms. Spread thin on a 
platter. When quite cold make in form of a peak. Dip 
in whipped egg, then cracker crumbs and fry in boil- 
ing lard. Too many put in at one time will cool the 
lard. 

Cod Fish Croquettes. 

One cup fish freshened and picked fine, 3 cups cold 
mashed potatoes, whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff, form 
in oblong cakes and fry in hot lard. 
Meat (Beef) Croquettes. 

Chop fine, not to make it pasty. Add an equal 
amount of hot, boiled rice, cooked very soft, season 
highly with salt, pepper, cayenne and onion juice, cool. 
If it is too stiff add a little gravy or stock. 

Oyster Croquettes. 

One-half pint oysters, y» piut cooked veal, 1 heap- 
ing tablespoon of melted butter, 3 tablespoons cracker 
crumbs, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon onion juice. Chop 
meats very fine, soak crackers in oyster fluid, then mix 
all ingredients and form. Dip in eggs and roll in 
bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. 

Beef, Veal, Sweet Breads or Game may be made 
like Chicken Croquettes. 

Fritters. 

One pint of milk; 4 eggs (yolks beaten with milk, 
whites beaten separately) ; 1 teaspoon of salt. Fry 
in hot butter or lard. 

58 



Corn Fritters. 

Take 12 ears of corn, score each row lengthwise 
with a sharp knife, and then scrape the inside of the 
kernels from the cob with the back of the knife. Beat 
2 eggs into this, and season with salt and pepper to 
taste. Have a little butter hot in a frying pan, and 
fry quickly, 8 or 10 spoons at a time, taking care not 
to burn them. Serve immediately. 

If the corn is very dry a few tablespoons of milk 
may be added, but never flour. 

Crumpets. 

One quart of milk, % yeast cake dissolved in warm 
water, or 4 tablespoons of yeast; 1 tablespoon of lard, 
1 tablespoon of butter, y 2 teaspoon of salt, ^4 teaspoon 
of soda, sifted twice, with the salt in a quart of flour. 
Mix well at night. Beat up hard in the morning, and 
let it rise for half an hour. 

Half fill heated aud buttered muffin rings, on a 
heated and greased griddle, with the batter, and bake 
on the top of the stove, turning once. Eun a sharp 
knife around the inside of each ring, and loosen the 
crumpet. Eat hot. Cold ones left over are nice split, 
toasted and buttered. 

Eggs- 
Scrambled. 
Pour 1 cup cream into a frying pan. When hot 
pour in 6 eggs, or 1 egg to a person in proportion to 
cream if only a small amount is desired, previously 
broken into a dish. Cook slowly, stirring constantly, 
so that the eggs will be evenly done. Season with salt 
and pepper to suit taste. 

Soft Boiled Eggs. 
Turn boiling water on eggs, and set on the back of 
the range for ten minutes. They will be cooked to a 
jelly, and be very digestible. 

Poached Eggs. 
Put enough water in a shallow pan to float the 
•eggs when broken into it. Break the eggs, one at a 
time, and slide them carefully into the pan, being 
careful not to break the yolk. If there is not suffi- 
cient water to cover them gently pour in the pan a 
little more boiling water. Cook until the whites over 
the yolk have become cooked. To aid this, keep gent- 
ly pouring the water from the pan over the eggs by 
dipping it up with a spoon. When the whites have 
hardened, lift the egg carefully with a cake turner and 
lay them on buttered toast. 

Fried Eggs. 
Pried eggs may be fried in any sweet grease. Keep 
the grease hot but not hot enough to cause the eggs 
to crinkle up around the edges. Keep dipping the 
hot fat over them to aid them in cooking evenly. 



Plain Omelet. 
Put 4 eggs with % teaspoon of salt, 1 scant salt- 
spoon pepper. Beat 9 or 10 times very vigorously 
and add 4 tablespoons of milk. Put 1 teaspoon butter 
in an omelet pan, shake over the fire until it becomes 
frothy, turn in the eggs and shake over a quick fire 
until they are set. Roll them and turn into a dish. 
Spread seasoning over the eggs before rolling. 

Omelet. 

Take 3 eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately. 
To the yolks, after they are beaten, add half a tea- 
spoon of salt, a teacup of rich cream, in which a heap- 
ing teaspoon of flour has been smoothly rubbed. Last- 
ly, stir in the whites, which have been beaten as for 
cake. Have ready a spider, in which has been melted 
a tablespoon of lard, and which is as hot as can be 
without burning; pour in the mixture, and cook to a 
rich brown. 

Ham or Parsley Omelet. 

Prepare omelet as above, adding a little finely 
chopped ham or parsley after it is in the spider, and 
fold together when delicately browned. 

Eggs with Cream Sauce. 
For 6 eggs toast as many pieces of bread (cutting 
off the crusts); dip them into boiling water; lay on a 
warm platter, and cut in half. Boil eggs from 5 to 7 
minutes, shell them, cut in two, and lay half an egg 
on each piece of bread. Make a sauce of 1 pint of 
milk, butter the size of an egg, 1 tablespoon of flour 
stirred smooth in a little cold water, and added when | 
the milk and butter are boiling. Season to taste with 
pepper and salt. Pour this sauce over the eggs, and 
sprinkle with bread crumbs browned in butter. Serve 
hot. 

Vegetables 

Asparagus 

Cut the tender parts of the stalks into bits about 
y 2 inch in length and then boil until tender. Drain 
off the water and to 1 bunch add M> cup cream and a 
pinch of salt. Cook slowly to a thick sauce. 

No. 2. — Cut open as many rolls as there are people 
to be served or as are wished, crisp them in the oven. 
Then heat a cup of milk to boiling and add it gradu- 
ally to 2 beaten eggs, stirring the while to prevent the 
milk from curdling, add % tablespoon butter. Boil soft 
parts of the asparagus till tender and roll them in 
flour, then stir the two parts together, fill the biscuits 
and serve. 

A thickened asparagus on toast is also another way 
of serving it that is acceptable to many. 

Beans 

Baked Beans 

Soak 1 quart white beans over night. In the morn- 
ing put them over the fire in cold water and parboil 



slowly for a few minutes. Allow the water to just 
come to a boil before removing them from the fire, 
then drain through a colander, and rinsing well with 
cold water. Lay bits of fat salt pork and a little onion 
on the bottom of the bean dish. Have ready V 2 pound 
salt pork squared into %-inch squares to mix with the 
beans, also adding to them 1 heaping teaspoon sugar, 
2 tablespoons molasses (if the sweetened beans are 
not cared for omit the molasses and the sugar), and a 
pinch of cayenne pepper. Cover with cold water and; 
bake from 8 to 10 hours steadily, or until they have 
become soft enough to suit taste. 

Kidney beans can be used in above way. 

String Beans 

Cut into y 2 inch lengths, put them into fast boiling 
water and cook them for 1 hour. Change the water at 
the end of V 2 hour and add 1 ounce of salt pork. Cook 
till most all the water is gone. A thickening may be 
added if wished. Serve. 

Shelled Beans. 
Cook in boiling water till they seem done when 
tasted, salt 5 minutes before they are removed, drain, 
season with butter and salt. 

Brussel Sprouts with Chestnuts. 
Parboil the sprouts, then steam with soup stock, 
butter and a little nutmeg. Cut a cross on the chest- 
nuts, boil until done, shell them, and steam with water, 
butter and a little sugar. Serve with chestnuts in the 
center of the dish, sprouts surrounding them. 

Lima Beans. 

Dried lima beans may be softened so they can be 
cooked as the green ones are by allowing them to soak 
for 36 hours. 

Boil and season to taste and thicken if desired with 
a little cream and flour. Lima and other white beans 
are improved by adding a little butter or fat salt pork. 

Beets. 
Clean well. Boil rapidly till tender, boil 40 min- 
utes if the beats are young and new, 2 hours if they 
are large and old. Then turn them into cold water 
and rub off the skins. Cut in pieces, butter well, add 
pepper and salt to taste. 

Cabbage. 
Choose the size desired, noting that the outside 
leaves are not too wilted. Remove the wilted parts, 
quarter, remove the heart or the fibrous part that is 
in the center. Boil in plenty of water, using 1% 
quarts to 1 pound cabbage. Drain and again add 
boiling water; cook till tender, or about 50 minutes. 
Drain in a hot oven. Dress as desired. 

Stuffed Cabbage Head. 
Remove the heart, boil till tender in salt water, 
then remove and chop. Mix this with l 1 /^ pounds 
ground round steak, % pound salt pork ground, add 1 



sliced onion, salt and pepper to taste. Then make into 
a ball and wrap around it one of the larger leaves 
that was taken off when the heart was removed. On 
the outside of this leaf put a layer of the chopped 
dressing, etc., till all the leaves are used up. The 
cabbage should then be somewhat near its original 
form. Tie it so with strings, sew in a eloth and put 
it in boiling water. Boil for 3 hours, then remove the 
cloth and carefully put it on a platter. Cut in slices 
when serving as would be done with a roast. 

Fried Cabbage. 
Cut a firm, crisp cabbage crosswise, cover with 
cold water and boil IV2 hours. After boiling 1 hour 
remove the cover and add 1 tablespoon pork drippings 
and one of butter. Let the water boil off and allow 
the cabbage to fry 15 minutes in the grease. Season 
to taste. Serve hot. 

Wirsing, or Savoy Cabbage. 

Cut in small pieces, removing the thick stems. Boil 
10 minutes, drain well, and press out all the water; add 
beef broth, butter, salt and a very little nutmeg, and 
cook slowly. Time, 1 hour. 

Carrots. 

Clean, cut into pieces, boil until tender and drain. 
Pour over the pieces melted butter and serve. 

No. 2. Clean, parboil 15 minutes, then dry them. 
Put in a sauce pan with 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 cup stock, 
1 tablespoon butter and boil till tender, remove the 
cover and boil rapidly till the stock is glazed. 

Cauliflower. 

Remove the outer leaves, clean by shaking in water. 
Put the head in boiling salted water and cook till 
tender. Serve as soon as it is done because it cools 
very fast after the water has been removed. 
Corn on the Cob. 

Husk, remove the silk and ends that are not good 
and put on the stove in cool water. Boil till tender, 
about 15 minutes; remove, serve. 

Dandelion Greens. 
Wash the plant well to remove any grit, then boil 
till tender and season with salt, pepper and vinegar, 
and butter. Pieces of beet add to the flavor if added 
when the plant is half cooked. For more minute direc- 
tions see Spinach. 

Fried Egg Plant. 
Peel and cut in % inch slices. Season with salt and 
pepper and allow them to stand 15 minutes under 
weight on a tilted plate to drain off the juice. Roll the 
slices in flour and fry. 

Greens. 
(See spinach.) 

Macaroni. 
One-fourth pound macaroni, broken into 2 inch 
lengths requires 3 quarts of salted boiling water. Boil 



in an uncovered dish 40 minutes or till very tender. 
Drain, rinse with cold water. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 
Use the above cooked macaroni and arrange in 
alternate layers with riced cheese, in a heavily but- 
tered pan. Pour over it a sauce, tomato is very good, 
cover with buttered cracker crumbs and bake in oven 
till the crumbs are browned. 

Macaroni, Baked. 

Pour over % pound broken macaroni boiling 
water and add a little salt. Boil 30 minutes, drain 
well, put in a baking dish and add 2 tablespoons flour, 
Yj. teaspoon powdered mustard, % pound riced or grated 
cheese, 1 pint of morning's milk (the cheese will curdle 
the milk unless it is fresh), mix the mustard, some of 
the milk and the flour to a smooth paste and set the 
rest of the mixture on the stove. When boiling add 
the paste and cheese; and cook till it becomes smooth. 
When done pour over the macaroni and bake 20 minutes 
till brown. 

Hulled Corn, Hominy. 

Soak iy 2 cups hominy for 6 hours in warm water, 
changing the water 3 times, each water being warmer 
than the last. Boil in the last water. Salt a few 
minutes before it is done. 

Onions, Boiled. 
Peel. Cook in boiling water till tender, add 1% 
teaspoon soda to the water to soften. Change water 
to boiling salt water and finish cooking. Drain, add a 
little warm milk, or only butter. Serve hot. 

Onions, Fried. 
Cut in suitable slices and fry in butter, beef fat or 
in the juice of steak. 

Scalloped Onions. 
Parboil the onion till tender, put into a pan well 
greased and alternate the layers with cracker crumbs 
and the onions. Butter the top layer of cracker 
crumbs slightly, put the dish in the oven and bake till 
brown, taking care not to burn. Twenty minutes of 
baking ought to be enough if the onions were well 
drained before adding the cracker filling. 

Okra, Fried. 

Fry with fat bacon 1 sliced onion, add 1 pint of 
sliced okra. Stir in and fry brown. Season with salt 
and cayenne pepper. 

Peas. 

Never wash the peas, but rather wash the pods 
before shelling. Put the peas into salted boiling water 
and cook rapidly for 20 minutes to % hour. Kemove 
and serve as soon as done. Before done add 1 table- 
spoon butter, a saltspoon salt and a little sugar. Allow 
this with the water to boil down till the peas are just , 
moist, then remove and serve hot. Cream may be used 



in place of the butter if so desired. The above is for 
1 pint of shelled peas. 

Parsnips. 

Clean, cook in boiling salt water till tender, take 
off the fire, skin, mash, season with salt and pepper to 
taste. 

Fry parnsips as you would sweet potatoes, in plenty 
of fat seasoned well with salt and pepper. They are 
much more palatable this way than boiled, because they 
retain their flavor. 

Potatoes. Flaked. 
Boil the potatoes in their skins till done, drain, dry 
and peel. Eub through a sieve into a dish that is hot. 
This is the same method as riced potatoes, only the 
sieve is used instead of the ricer. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Slice the potatoes lengthwise about x /4 inch thick. 
Fry till nearly done, remove from the grease, drain 
then again fry. Salt. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Cut the potatoes into irregular shapes. For 1 pint 
potatoes take V-y. tablespoon chopped onions, i£ table- 
spoon chopped parsley and 1% tablespoon butter. Fry 
the onion in the butter till yellow, then add the po- 
tatoes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. When 
nearly done add the parsley, cook 3 minutes longer 
and serve hot. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Cut into slices and fry in drippings or butter. 
Cook, covered, for 5 minutes, then uncover; stir to pre- 
vent burning and cook till browned.. 

Warmed Up Potatoes. 

Slice or chop up boiled potatoes. Put on the fire, 
in a sauce pan, a little milk. When boiling add a 
small teacupful of butter, into which rub a teaspoon- 
ful of flour. Add potatoes, and cook about 10 min- 
utes. 

Potato Balls. 

Use mashed potatoes. Add some cream, yolks of 2 
well beaten eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well 
together, make into patties aBout % inch thick and 
either bake into a brown in a quick oven very quickly 
or fry them. The latter method is the best. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Pare, slice and put a layer of potatoes in the bot- 
tom of a pan. Then sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
flour, add a little piece of butter. Then add another 
layer of potatoes and another of the flour, etc., till 
the pan is % full, then cover with milk and bake 40 
minutes. 

Rice, Boiled. 

Boil 2y 2 quarts salt water and put into it when 
boiling 1 cup rice. Let boil fast till the kernels be- 

67 



come well swollen. Drain, keep warm and shake fre- 
quently for 2.5 minutes. A double boiled is the best 
utensil that can be used. 

Rice Balls. 
Use cooked rice, add a little cream, butter and a 
little Bait. Make into patties and fry as you would 
potato balls. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Parboil, peel, cut into V> inch slices lengthwise 
and put the .slices into the following syrup: One cup 
sugar to y± cup water and a teaspoon butter. Put the 
potatoes into the syrup and allow them to slowly cook 
till the syrup is nearly all boiled away and the po- 
tatoes are nearly dry. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes. 
(See Fried Potatoes.) 

A Nice Way of Cooking Sweet Potatoes. 
Boil sweet potatoes until soft, then slice and dip in 
beaten egg, and then in crackers rolled very fine. Fry 
in butter until brown, and pour a drawn butter oyer 
them. 

Southern Way of Cooking Sweet Potatoes. 
Take ordinary sized potatoes, boiled until nearly 
ready for use. Then slice into a baking dish, putting 
a very little salt on each layer. Take a piece of but- 
ter the size of a small hen's egg, melt and pour over 
with a scant tablespoonful of sugar sprinkled on top. 
Bake a half hour in not too hot an oven. 

Spaghetti. 
Use a tomato sauce and prepare otherwise like 
macaroni. 

Succotash. 
One can corn or the kernels from 10 ears, mix 
with 1 quart lima beans and boil till tender. Drain, 
melt 2 tablespoons butter and pour on the beans and 
corn. Season with salt and pepper to suit taste. Let 
it simmer 1(> minutes and then pour in 1 cup milk. 
Serve hot. 

Tomatoes. 

To peel — plunge the tomatoes into boiling water 
and allow them to stay there while you count 4, then 
take them out and the skins will come off very easily. 

Stewed Tomatoes — Cut in slices, season and boil 
slowly for 25 minutes. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Cut off a slice from the top, scoop out the soft in- 
sides, mix with an equal bulk of boiled rice. Season 
with pepper, salt, butter and a speck of sugar. Fill 
each tomato shell with the mixture, replace the tops 
and bake in a quick oven till soft or about V-2 hour. 
The stuffing may be varied, using macaroni and bits 
of green peppers, etc. 



Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Put in a dish in alternate layers, buttered bread 
or cracker crumbs with sliced tomatoes sprinkled with 
pepper, etc., as in scalloped potato recipe. Bake 1 
hour. 

Spinach. 

Put the spinach, after it is well picked and washed, 
into boiling water with a little salt, and boil un- 
covered for 5 minutes; then drain in a colander, pour 
over it some boiling water, press out water, and cut 
with a knife (not chop fine). For 1 peck spinach have 
ready scant pint of good strong beef broth, into 
which put crumbs of 2 soda crackers, 1 small onion, 
some butter, and when it boils add spinach. Season 
with pepper and salt, and let it simmer half an hour. 

Wash well to clean from insects. It is best to use 
3 separate waters. Put the spinach on the fire in a 
kettle without water. Let it heat, then add the 
water, after the juice is drawn, and cook till it is ten- 
der. Drain. To % % peck spinach add 1 ounce of but- 
ter and a half. 

Tomatoes and Rice. 

Put into a sauce pan, butter the size of an egg, 
and when it bubbles sprinkle in a dessertspoonful of 
flour. Stir in one quart, or a little less, of stewed 
tomatoes, and when quite hot, add a cupful of fresh 
boiled rice and a half teaspoonful of soda. A little 
sugar to the tomatoes when cooking is an improve- 
ment. 

Turnips. 

Cut in slices y 2 inch thick, boil till they are tender, 
mash and serve with roast pork or mutton. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 

Oyster Plant. 
Cut the plant into lengths, roll in a fritter batter. 
Fry. The plant is best as a substitute for oysters in 
soup. The difference can hardly be distinguished. The 
plant must be boiled before the milk is added, how- 
ever. 

Breads 

Foreword 

Use the very best flour, clean salt, fresh yeast and 
sweet butter or lard. Always pulverize the salt, cream 
tartar, soda or baking power before using. Sift the 
flour well. The flour should be kept in a dry place and 
should be the same temperature as the milk or water 
used for mixing when ready to do so. The dough 
should always feel cool to the hand, that is, it should 
not become higher than 70 degrees. It should also be 
kept at an even temperature, as sudden rises or falls 
of the same will be likely to be disastrous. Have a 
shelf out of the way of draughts to set the sponge in. 

While the sponge is soft it requires hard beating. 
This is necessary. Do not allow it to become too warm. 
Do not try to mix until stiff while in the bowl but put 



it on a well floured mixing board. Knead until the 
dough has a silky smoothness and does not stick to the 
board or table. It should be full of bubbles, the longer 
the kneading is carried on the finer the texture of the 
bread will be. The work should be done fast; if prop- 
erly done the time required for the kneading will be 
about 20 minutes. 

How to Knead Properly. Push the dough with the 
palm of the hand and curve the fingers to prevent its 
flattening too much. After every push turn the dough 
about one-quarter of the way round, and fold over. Do 
not make the dough too stiff, as the bread from that 
kind will not keep as well as that which is made from a 
softer dough. When kneaded put in tins — 1 pound tins 
are the best — and set away to rise. Let the dough re- 
main in the tins until it has become light, if it does not 
increase double in size in one hour set it where the tem- 
perature is higher. When it is thought that it has risen 
enough see that the oven is hot enough. To test the 
heat put a little flour on a paper and set in the oven for 
five minutes; if it browns well the heat is sufficient for 
the bread dough. When the loaves are baked increase 
the heat for about eight minutes and then decrease it 
slightly. Be sure and look at the bread about every ten 
minutes after it has commenced to bake. To prevent 
uneven baking the pans will need frequent turning 
around. It will take about forty minutes for the loaves 
to bake properly; then they will have shrunk somewhat, 
thus allowing the loaf to slip easily from »the pan. 
When done the bread should have a nice even brown 
crust; it should not burn the hand when handled, as 
that is a sign that there is still too much moisture 
which is escaping in the form of steam. A good plan 
by which to test the bread in determining whether or 
not it is done, is to hold the loaf to the ear; if a crack- 
ling noise is heard the bread is not done. When done 
sot where it will cool quickly and grease the top of the 
loaf with butter to soften the crush and to prevent its 
drying. 

Bread pans should be well greased before putting 
in the dough. 

Polls should have the greatest heat in the begin- 
ning. 

Do not throw away old bread bits. That is very 
poor economy, because stale bread can always be work-- 
ed over into something else. 

Bread with a Water Base— Use Above Helps 

One quart sifted flour, y 2 teaspoon salt, y 2 teaspoon 
sugar, 1 tablespoon of lard or butter, y 2 ounce com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in % cup tepid water, 1 pint 
warm water. Measure the flour, salt, and pour sugar 
into a mixing bowl and pour in enough hot water to 
dissolve it, onto the shortening, and then add enough 
cold water to make it 1 pint in all and to make the 
temperature about 70 degrees. Mix in the dissolved 
yeast and make a batter with the flour. Beat well. 



Add flour until the dough is stiff enough to handle on 
the molding board and then knead. Be careful that 
you do not use more flour than is absolutely required 
to keep it from sticking. Cover, when sufficiently 
kneaded, and allow it to rise until it has doubled its 
bulk. When ready, cut in loaves, put in pans and 
again allow it to rise double in bulk. Bake as directed 
in foreword. Biscuits may be made from same dough. 
Bread. 

Take 4 quarts of sifted flour and one cake of yeast; 
a pinch of salt; and wet with warm milk and water 
stiff enough to knead. Work it on the board until it 
requires no more flour. If made at night, the bread 
will be light enough to work over and put in pans 
early in the morning. This quantity will make two 
large loaves. 

One-third of the lump may be taken for rolls, 
which can be made by working in butter the size of an 
egg, and setting it aside to rise again; when light 
the second time, make out in oblong shapes, cover 
them with a cloth, and let them rise again. 

As soon as they break apart, bake them in a 
quick oven. They will not fail to be nice if they are 
baked as soon as they seam. This is the great secret 
of white, flaky rolls. 

Two or three potatoes will improve the bread. 

Good housekeepers always have the flour sifted in 
readiness for use, and never use it in any other way. 
Aunt Mary's Graham Bread. 

Take 2 teacups of the batter after it is raised for 
the wheat bread, thinning it with a little warm water, 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses, for one loaf. Stir 
in the Graham flour until quite stiff; let it rise again, 
then stir, adding a little more flour if necessary, and 
put in tins ready for baking; let it rise again, and 
bake slowly. 

Gluten Bread. 

Gluten flour, 1 cup, 1 cup best bran previously 
scalded, 1 teaspoon baking powder, % teaspoon salt, 2 
eggs, 1 cup milk or water. Mix and stir thoroughly. 
Bake. 

Bran Bread. 

Boil 1 quart wheat bran in two successive waters, 
wash in a sieve with hot water until water comes 
through clear. Squeeze in a cloth after eaeh wash- 
ing. Spread thinly on a dish and dry in a slow oven. 
Grind in a fine mill and sift through by a fine sieve. 
Grind the residue again and sift. Take of this 3 
ounces, 3 fresh eggs, 2 ounces butter, % pint milk. 
Mix the eggs with a little of the milk, warm the 
butter with the balance. Stir all together, flavor with 
ginger. Bake in thin cakes in a quick oven for % 
hour. 

Graham Bread. 

One pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
brown sugar, 1 pint Graham flour, 1 pint white flour, 



% ounce yeast. Scald and cool the milk, add the 
sugar and crumbled yeast. When it floats and is 
frothy make a batter with the flour, and meal, beating 
rather hard. Let it rise till Spongy, add the salt, and 
more meal until it is as stiff as can be worked with 
a knife, put 1% pounds in a pan, smooth, cover and 
allow to rise again. It should then be set in a quick 
over for 10 minutes before reducing the heat. This is 
also good dough for muffins. 

No. 2. One teacup of wheat flour, y 2 teacup mo- 
lasses, y% cup yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 pint warm 
water. Add sufficient Graham flour to make the dough 
as stiff as can be stirred with a strong spoon. This is 
to be mixed at night. In the morning add 1 teaspoon 
soda dissolved in a little water, mix well and pour 
into 2 medium sized pans and they will be about % 
full. Let stand in a warm place until it rises to the 
top of the pan, bake in a hot oven, covered, the first 
20 minutes. 

Nut Bread. 

Four cups flour, % cup sugar, 2 cups milk, level 
teaspoon salt, 8 level teaspoons baking powder, 1 large 
tablespoon lard, 3 eggs, 1 cup nut meats. Allow to 
rise 20 minutes. Bake 45 minutes. 

Aunt May's Bread. 

Two cups pastry flour, y± teaspoon salt, 3 table- 
spoons granulated sugar, y 2 level teaspoon soda, 1% 
level teaspoon cream of tartar, 1 egg, y 2 cupful of 
milk, 3 tablespoons melted butter. Sift together and 
dry the ingredients. Add milk to the beaten eggs and 
stir into the dry ingredients. Stir in the butter, turn 
into a buttered shallow pan and let bake about 20 
minutes. 

Brown Bread. 

Two coffee cups Graham flour, 2 coffee cups corn 
meal, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 2% cups sweet 
milk, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda. Steam 3 
hours and bake until a rich brown. 

No. 2. Two cups sour milk, 2 cups Graham, 1 cup 
white flour, \y 2 cup corn meal, % cup molasses, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt. Steam 1% hours and 
bake J£ hour. 

No. 3. One cup corn meal, 2 cups Graham flour, 
one cup sweet milk, 2 cups sour milk, 1% cup mo- 
lasses with a little salt, 1 heaping teaspoon soda. 
Steam three hours; bake the same 20 minutes. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups of bread dough after rising; x / 2 cup of 
molasses, 2 tablespoons of brown sugar, y 2 teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in hot water. Stir soft with Graham 
flour, and let it rise once. 

Steamed Boston Brown Bread. 
Two cups of corn meal, 1 cup of Graham flour, 3 
■cups of sour milk, one-third cup of molasses, teaspoon- 



ful of soda, dissolved in the molasses, a little salt. 
Steam four hours or longer. 

Rolls or Biscuit. 

One pint of scalded milk cooled, % cup yeast, 1 
tablespoon sugar, a little salt and butter the size of an 
egg. Rub the butter in 1 quart of flour, add other 
ingredients, mixing well. Let stand in moderate heat 
till light, then flour till it can be kneaded on a board. 
Mix and knead % hour. Eise again and roll out to 
thickness of ^ inch each. Cut in biscuits and rub a 
little butter on the upper side of each. Fold the other 
half over and pinch. Put in pans, let them become 
light, and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. These rolls 
set in the morning will be ready for tea. One measure 
means 50' rolls. 

Beat, or Virginia Biscuit. 

Two quarts of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of lard, 1 
teaspoonful of salt. Mix with water and a little milk. 
Beat, or work until the dough blisters. Cut out, and 
stick with a fork. Good for luncheon; best hot for 
breakfast. 

Cinnamon Rolls. 

One cup scalded milk, one-third cup butter, one- 
third cup sugar, 1 yeast cake dissolved in y± cup luke- 
warm water, % teaspoon salt, % cup raisins seeded 
and quartered, 1* teaspoon lemon extract, flour; add 
% sugar and salt to the milk; when lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast cake and M> cup flour, cover and let 
rise until light; add butter, remaining sugar, raisins, 
lemon and flour to make a stiff batter; let rise; roll 
out and cover with sugar, cinnamon and melted but- 
ter. Roll, slice off in desired size; allow to rise again 
and bake. 

Muffins. 

Two eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter the 
size of an egg and a little salt. 

One-half cup of sugar, % cup of milk, 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoonfuls butter, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Flour enough to make like cake. 

English Muffins. 
One pint of warm water, dissolve Ya cake of com- 
pressed yeast, 1 pint of milk, no salt, the beaten 
whites of 4 eggs, flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Set it to rise over night, and bake in rings on but- 
tered griddle. Toast cold ones next morning. 

Graham Muffins. 

One pint of Graham flour, 1 pint of wheat flour, 2 

eggs, beaten light, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter; 1 

teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls 

of baking powder, milk enough to make a thick batter. 

Johnny Cake. 
Three tablespoons sour milk, 1 teacup buttermilk, 
1 egg, % cup molasses, 1 cup flour, 1 cup corn meal, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda. 



Graham Gems. 
One coffee cup sour milk, 1 even teaspoon soda, 1 
tablespoon melted lard, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 egg, 1 
teaspoon salt, Graham flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. Drop with a spoon on a dripping pan. 

Pop Overs. 
Mix the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, with one 
small teaspoon of melted butter, pinch of salt, 1 cup 
flour, 2 cups milk. Then about half beat the whites 
of the eggs, and put in last. Only stir as little as 
possible, just enough to mix altogether. Put in pans. 
Bake 15 minutes. 

Maryland Spoon Corn Bread. 
Put 1 quart of milk on the fire, and when it comes 
to a boil stir in 4 large kitchen spoonfuls of white 
corn meal. Let it cook until very thick, stirring con- 
stantly. Put it aside to cool, then add 3 eggs which 
have been beaten, with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and 
a big pinch of salt. Beat in 1 tablespoonful of butter 
while the corn is hot. Bake in a buttered dish for 
thirty-five minutes, and serve immediately. A de- 
licious breakfast bread. 

Baking Powder Biscuits and Short Cakes. 

One quart flour, 4 level teaspooiis baking powder, 
1 teaspoon salt mixed and sifted together 5 times, 2 1 / 4 
tablespoons butter, 1 pint of milk, or enough to make 
a stiff dough. Flake the butter by rubbing between 
the fingers, add the milk very gradually, mixing till 
the whole becomes a spongy mass. Spread out on a 
board to about 1^4 inch thick, cut and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Short Cake. 

Part 1. Two cups flour, y% teaspoonful salt, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder; sift together well; rub in ^4 
cup butter. Part 2. One egg, beaten and mixed with 
a % cup milk. Bake in a quick, hot oven. After it 
has cooled a little divide in halves; pull apart, butter 
and add the fruit. 

Dumplings. 

Use the first part of the short cake recipe and drop 
the dough into the boiling stew. Cover the stew tight 
for ten minutes without opening. The dumplings 
should be done in that time. Stewed fruit may be ' 
used as well as meat for the pot pie. 

Apple Dumplings. 
Make the first part of the short cake recipe, lay it 
over the apple that has been pared, cored and sliced 
and set to cook in % cup of water while the crust 
was being made. Cut holes to allow the steam to 
escape, cover and allow to cook on top of stove for 40 
minutes, then remove the cover from the dish and 
allow the crust to brown in a quick, hot oven. Turn 
bottom side up on a plate to serve. 



Pan Cakes and Waffles. 
Foreword — There are 3 ways in which to bake the 
cakes; first, use a soap stone and when hot and before 
each baking use a potato cut in half to rub the stone 
with to prevent the cakes sticking; second, use an iron 
griddle without greasing. To prevent sticking add a 
teaspoon butter to the batter; third, use the iron 
griddle and grease well before each batch to prevent 
sticking. The last method, although not as clean as 
the others, is perhaps the most successful. 

Pan Cakes. 

One pint flour and a teaspoon baking powder to 
make a batter. Add 1% to 2 cups milk, 2 eggs beaten, 
2 tablespoons melted butter, salt. Mix well, add to 
the batter and bake. 

No. 2. Two cups sour milk, 1 level teaspoon soda, 
pinch of salt and enough flour to make a batter that 
will run smooth from the spoon. One well beaten egg 
may also be added. Bake. 

Rice Cakes. 

Use the above batter and stir in 2 cups well boiled 
rice. 

No. 2. Two cups well boiled hot rice, 1 cup sour 
nilk, 1 cup flour with 1 level teaspoon soda stirred in,. 
L beaten egg. Bake. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
One-half cup corn meal, ^ teaspoon salt, mixed 
yith 2 cups boiling water. While stirring well add % 
sup white flour and IMj cups buckwheat flour, or if 
;he buckwheat flour is of a very light color omit the 
vhite flour and add 2 cups buckwheat flour and 1 
:ake yeast. Allow this batter to stand over night. A 
1-gallon crock is the best receptacle, and this should 
>e placed in a larger pan which will serve to catch 
my of the batter which may rise to the top and run 
iver the side. In the morning pour off the batter 
hat will be required for that morning's cakes and 
:dd % cup milk and 1 saltspoon soda dissolved in it, 
, little more flour to thicken if it seems too thin. 
Llways save some of the original batter for a sponge 
o set the next night 's cakes by, thus saving making a 
r ew sponge each night. Bake on a hot and well 
greased griddle. They should be baked thin to be 
est. Repeat the above, using the amount saved for 
east as often as wished, although when the cakes 
ecome sour a new sponge had better be made. 

Waffles. 
Use the dough made for pan cakes with additional 
utter in the proportion of 2 ounces butter to every 2 
ups, or a pint of flour. Bake in well greased waffle 
ons. 

Tapioca Breakfast Cakes. 
A teacup of tapioca soaked over night in a quart 
f water. In the morning, before mixing, cook gently 



a few moments until all lumps are dissolved. Add a 
cup of milk, 2 well beaten eggs, a saltspoonful of salt, 
aud 1 scant teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted into 
a coffee cupful of flour, added just before frying on 
the griddle. 

Salads 

Salad Dressing. 

No. 1. Two raw eggs, 1 tablespoonful of butter, S 
teaspoonfuls of vinegar, y, teaspoont'ul of mustard. 
Place in a bowl over boiling water, stir until it be- 
comes like cream and pepper and salt to taste. 

No. 2 (Cream Salad Dressing). Six eggs beaten 
very light, V-2 teacupful of melted butter, 1 large coffee 
cupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of salt and pepper each, 
1 mustard spoonful of mustard, 1 tablespoonful of 
sugar mixed with mustard, 1 teacupful of vinegar. 
When well mixed float on hot water and stir until it 
thickens. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolk of 2 eggs, finest olive oil, vinegar, lemou 
juice, salt. Put the yolk of the eggs in a round bot- 
tom dish, then put in a teaspoonful of salt and com- 
mence to stir with a wooden fork, dropping slowly on 
to this oil; continue to stir and drop oil until it has 
become thick. Then add the vinegar and lemon juice, 
drop by drop, continuing to stir until it is thor- 
oughly mixed and has come to the proper consistency. 

No. 2. One-half cup highly season veal jelly 
whipped to a stiff froth. Add slowly *4 pint oil, 6 
tablespoons tarragan vinegar, % teaspoon of salt, % 
teaspoonful white pepper, i/j saltspoon of sugar, dust 
of cayenne. Set it into a bowl of ice water and beat 
till stiff enough to keep its form when dropped from 
a spoon. 

French Dressing. 

Put into a tablespoon 1 saltspoon salt, % pep- 
pevspoon pepper and fill with oil; mix well to- 
gether and pour over salad; add 2 tablespoonfuls more 
of oil and toss the salad well, lastly add 1 tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar. This is sufficient for 6 persons if used 
on green salad; for cooked vegetables use twice or 
three times the measure. 

Chicken Salad. 
Take the skin and bones from two cold boiled 
chickens, cut the meat in regular, oblong shaped 
pieces, and put in an earthen vessel. Cut one dozen 
celery, after being thoroughly cleaned, in like size 
pieces, and mix with the cut chicken. Rub the yolks 
of six hard boiled eggs very fine, season with M; tea- 
spoonful of salt, y± teaspoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of dry mustard; stir in the yolks of 4 raw eggs. 
Have x n pint of white vinegar boiling, put in this 
vinegar % pound good butter. When melted stir in 
the prepared eggs, and then set this mixture aside to 
cool. If too stiff when cold, add enough sweet cream 

76 



to make it right. Mix then with the chicken and 
celery, and keep cool, ready for use. 

Mayonnaise Dressing for Chicken Salad. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, stir, not beat, them with a fork. 
Stir % teaspoonful of salt, the same amount of mus- 
tard and a dash of red pepper with eggs. Then add 
% cup of olive oil drop by drop, when getting stiff 
add 2 teaspoons of vinegar, one at a time. Then drop 
in another % cup of oil. When that is thoroughly 
stirred in add a little lemon juice. Just before serv- 
ing, thin the dressing with whipped cream and pour 
over the chicken and celery. This is sufficient for a 
4 pound chicken. Have everything cold when making 
the dressing. 

No. 2. To % cupful of shelled blanched walnuts 
cut in small pieces, add % cupful of white meat of 
cold chicken cut in small cubes and 1 cupful of celery, 
strings removed, and cut across so as to give the 
crescent shape. Mix well, mayonnaise. Serve on let- 
tuce leaves with a small piece of lemon on each plate. 
If 1 quart of salad is required double the quantities. 
Left-over peas may be added. 

No. 3. For 1 quart mix 1 cupful of cold cooked 
chicken cut in cubes, 1 cucumber pared and cut into 
cubes, 1 cupful of chopped English walnut kernels, 
chopped fine, and 1 cupful of French pease. Moisten 
with French dressing, arrange on lettuce and garnish 
with stiff mayonnaise. Dust the ingredients with salt 
before combing with dressing. 

Fruit Salad. 

White grapes carefully skinned, sliced bananas 
and oranges cut in small pieces. Add kernels of Eng- 
lish walnuts and mix altogether with mayonnaise 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

No. 2. One cupful Malaga grapes, 3 banannas, 3 
oranges, 1 cupful of English walnut meats, 1 bunch of 
celery, 1 head of lettuce; mayonnaise dressing. Slice 
off the skin of the orange, then cut in slices length- 
wise. Cut the celery into inch lengths and then in 3 
strips. Skin the grapes, cut in halves and remove the 
seeds. Mix the celery, fruit and nuts together; mix 
with mayonnaise and set in ice chest until required. 
Serve in individual serving cups lined with lettuce 
leaves. 

No. 3. One cupful each of celery, apple and pine- 
apple cut small; % cupful of ground almonds; the 
meat part only of 2 tomatoes cut in cubes; drain be- 
fore mixing with other ingredients; y 2 tablespoon 
finely shredded green pepper. When thoroughly mixed 
serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise or French 
dressing. 

No. 4. Half pound of almonds, blanched and grat- 
ed, 4 oranges, pared and sliced; 1 can of grated pine- 
apple, 3 bananas, peaches or pears; French cherries, 
strawberries or other fruit in like proportion. Alter- 

77 



nate the layers of fruit with powdered sugar, and re- 
serve the almonds for the top layer, to be garnished 
with strawberries or other small bright fruits. Then 
add the following dressing: % cup lemon juice, 2 
tablespoons of Sherry and 2 tablespoons of liquor, 
preferably Maraschino. (A dash of whipped cream 
adds to the appearance.) 

No. 5. Take the heart leaves of lettuce and heap a 
few strawberries in each. Dust them lightly with 
powdered sugar; lay a teaspoonful of mayonnaise on 
each portion and serve cut lemons with them. 

Winter Salad. 
One cup cold boiled potatoes cut into thin slices, 
1% cups of cold boiled beets sliced (or chopped), 1 
large sour apple chopped, the juice of 2 onions; stir 
altogether with % cup of capers. Season well with 
salt and pepper, and let stand to get cold in ice box. 
Just before serving pour over it a mayonnaise as fol- 
lows: Two eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 4 tablespoons 
vinegar, x /o teaspoon mustard. Put in a bowl in boil- 
ing water; stir until like cream. 

Cauliflower Salad. 
Separate the sprigs of cold boiled cauliflower, put 
into the salad dish a head of lettuce and cover it with 
mayonnaise. Arrange the cauliflower sprigs around 
the dish with the heads outward and serve. 

Cabbage Salad. 

A small head of cabbage (do not chop), one-third 
of this amount of celery; mix with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

Chopped Cabbage. 

Select a fine white cabbage, shred very fine with 
a sharp knife. Heap in a dish, pour over it a dressing 
made by stirring together 1 tablespoon salad oil or 
melted butter, a little salt and pepper, % teacup good 
vinegar. Mix well through the cabbage when ready 
to serve, or use boiled dressing. 

Bean Salad. 
One cup of beans soaked over night; in the morn- 
ing pour off the water. Put enough fresh water on 
them so that they will boil until thoroughly done. 
When cool, add an onion, size of an English walnut, 
chopped very fine, moisten with mayonnaise, season 
highly with salt, pepper, cayenne and mustard. 

Salad in Aspic. 
One large cucumber cubed, juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup 
of canned pineapple cubed, level teaspoon onion juice, 
level teaspoon salt, 1 dash paprica, use gelatin ac- 
cording to recipe on package, using pineapple juice 
and allowing for the same in the amount of water 
used. The whole water and juice should be a little 
less on account of the fruit juice. Put in molds and 
set on ice over night. When ready to serve put on 
whipped cream and dressing to taste. 

78 



Cucumber-Tomato Salad. 
Peal as many small ripe tomatoes as there are to 
be covers. Eemove the hearts and set on ice to be- 
come cold. Pare cucnumbers quite close to the seeds 
and chop them coarsely. Pour over them a French 
dressing or mayonnaise and fill them lightly into the 
tomato covers. Serve each on a crisp lettuce leaf. 

Waldorf Salad. 
Mix equal quantities of apply cut in cubes and 
celery, add ^ as much nut meats; mix with mayon- 
naise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Potato Salad. 
One quart cold boiled potatoes cut in cubes, % 
tablespoon chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 
ley, % cup French dressing. Mix potatoes, onions, 
parsley and French dressing, and let it stand in a cold 
place for one hour. Mix with a boiled or a mayon- 
naise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Potato Salad. 

Prepare dressing as follows, and have cold ready 
for use: Yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 
tablespoonful of flour, 1 cupful of vinegar, y 2 cupful 
of water, butter size of an egg, scant teaspoonful of 
salt, small spoonful of mustard, a little pepper. Slice 
cold boiled potatoes very thin, put a layer in the salad 
dish. Scatter over this a pinch of chopped parsley, a 
trifle of grated onion, and a few pieces of beet cut in 
dice shape. Over this put a little of the dressing, and 
repeat until the dish is full. Garnish with sprigs of 
parsley, and bits of beet. A teaspoonful of grated 
onion, 1 beet and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
are enough for an ordinary sized dish. 

Potato Salad. 
For each quart of cold baked or boiled potatoes 
allow 1 cucumber, 1 cup of diced celery and 3 measure 
of boiled dressing. In mixing do not stir, but lift 
carefully and turn over. 

German Fried Potatoe Salad. 
Choose small potatoes; cook and well drain, peal 
and set aside to cool while making following dressing: 
Cut Vi pound fat bacon very fine, put into a frying 
pan over a slow fire; shred an onion into a large 
bowl, add a small tablespoon of salt, 1 cup of vinegar 
and not water (half and half). When the fat is a 
light brown color and the particles well crisped add 
2 tablespoonsful of salad oil and pour it slowly into 
she vinegar and onion. Slice the potatoes as thin as 
possible, stirring often; if the salad is too dry add a 
tittle hot water from time to time. It should have a 
glossy look without being lumpy or greasy. 

Hungarian Potato Salad. 
Take small potatoes, boil and peel while warm. 
Slice very thin. To every pint of potatoes mince 1 
small onion, 1 piekled beet, 1 fresh cucumber sliced, 



a Dutch herring, 4 sardines and a spoonful of minced 
cold boiled ham. Mix all together and pour over a 
teacup of vinegar. Garnish with walnut pickles. 

Water Cress Salad. 
A plain salad dressing with small herbs, such as 
chives, borage and chervil, added to the cress makes 
it a delightful change for jaded apetities. 

Lobster Salad. 

Take the lobster out of the shell, wash in cold 
water and put in vinegar for about 5 minutes, strain 
and cut in regular sized pieces, cut a few pickles the 
same size pieces as the lobster, and a few hard boiled 
eggs cut the same way, so it will be one-third lobster, 
one-third pickles and one-third eggs. Mix with a 
dressing as for chicken salad and keep cold.— Kinsley. 

Cakes. 

Marshmallow Cake. 

18 eggs (whites only). 

2 ] o cups powdered sugar. 

I 1 /!' cups flour. 

2 teaspoons cream tartar. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

One-third of this recipe may be used. 

Beat the eggs very light and then cut the sugar 
in with a broad bladed knife. Put the cream of tartar 
in the flour and sift 3 times and mix well; then cut 
it into the egg and sugar. Beat and add the vanilla. 
Bake in three cakes in deep, ungreased layer pans, 
putting brown paper in bottom. Bake in quick oven. 
Then spread in between layers and on top a filling 
made as follows: Boil 2 cups of sugar with 1 cup of 
water until it ropes. Just before taking it off put in 
1 -2 pound marshmallow broken into bits to melt rap- 
idly. Pour this mixture into the whites of 2 well 
beaten eggs and beat constantly until cold. 

Molasses Cake. 
One egg, 1 cup molasses, y 2 cup brown sugar, y 2 
cup shortening. Stir together and then add 1 cup of 
boiling coffee, 1 teaspoon salaratus, 3 cups of flour, 1 
teaspoon ground cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoon lemon extract, 1 cup chopped raisins. Ginger 
may be used in place of extract if desired. 

White Cake. 

Whites of 4 eggs, % cup butter, \ x / 2 cups sugar, 
two-thirds cup milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2% 
cups flour. Flavor to suit taste. 

Sponge Cake. 
Three eggs and 2 cups of sugar stirred together 
smooth; stir 3 cups flour. In the last 2 cups of flour 
have 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. Last of all, stir 1 
cup of sweet milk in which dissolve 1 teaspoon of 
soda and a pinch of salt. 

SO 



Ribbon Cake. 

White part — Whites of 4 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, y 2 
cup butter, two-third cup sweet milk, \y 2 cups of 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Dark part — One cup brown sugar, y 2 cup butter, y 2 
cup molasses, y> cup sweet milk, yolk of 4 eggs, y 2 
teaspoon in the molasses, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, y 2 
teaspoon each of cloves, allspice and nutmeg, 2 cups 
raisins and currents, 2 x / 2 cups sifted flour. Make in 
layers and put together with any boiled frosting. 

Belmont Cake. 

One cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, \y 2 cups 
milk, \y 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Cream, sugar and butter; then add eggs well beaten; 
put milk in, then flour and baking powder sifted 
together. Bake in 2 layers. Chocolate filling — One- 
half cup grated chocolate, 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup milk. 
Flavor with vanilla. Boil 5 minutes, stirring constant- 
ly, and then beat until thick enough to spread on 
cake. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. 

Three eggs beaten light, 1 cup sugar added grad- 
ually, y 2 tablespoon sweet milk, stir together 1 cup 
flour, y L > teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Stir well into the mixture and add 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, and turn batter into a dripping pan. Bake in 
a moderate oven 12 minutes, then spread with jelly 
and roll while warm. 

No. 2. Four cups flour, 1 teaspoon of baking pow- 
der, two-thirds teacup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 
3 eggs, a little salt. Flavor to taste. Put x / 2 of mixt- 
ure in oblong tins and add to the remainder 1 cup 
raisins, stoned and chopped; 3 tablespoons molasses, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, 1 tablespoon flour, y 2 pound citron 
sliced fine, y 2 teaspoon cloves and allspice; add a little 
grated nutmeg. Put this mixture in two tins in size 
and shape of the former; put the white or brown 
together alternately with jelly or jam between, or it 
will make a pretty marble loaf baked in one pan with- 
out the fruit. Pour in light and dark in alternate 
layers. 

Delicate Cake. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup milk, whites 
of 4 eggs, 1 cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Flavor to suit. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

One-half cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, 2 cups flour, 1 
eup chopped nuts, % cup sweet milk, whites of 4 
eggs, 2 tablespoons baking powder. Flavor with 
lemon. 

Fruit Cake. 

Three teacups flour sifted with 3 teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, 1 teacup brown sugar and molasses, % 
teacup butter, y 2 teaspoon of allspice, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, 3 eggs, y 2 pound of stoned raisins, currants, 



citron, and figs cut fine, with 1 teacup nut meats. 
Mix fruits and spices the day before making cake. 
Bake in slow oven. 

No. 2. Two cups sugar, 1 cup molasses, iy 2 cups 
butter, 1 cup coffee, 4 eggs, 2 pounds raisins, 1 pound 
currants, citron, spiced to taste; 1 teaspoon of soda 
dissolved in the coffee and 3y 2 cups flour. 

No. 3. One and one-half cups brown sugar, 1 cup 
butter, 2% cups currants chopped, 2% cups seeded 
raisins, 1% cups citron, iy 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
2 teaspoons cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 pint cur- 
rant jelly, y 2 pint strong coffee, 6 eggs and flour. 

No. 4. Two cups dried apples soaked over night, 
in the morning chop fine and boil 1 hour with 1 cup 
molasses; then add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 
cup butter, 1 bowl raisins or more if desired rich, 
currants, etc., 4 cups flour, 1 heaping teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon of cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, cloves, ginger 
and allspice. 

Coffee Cake. 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs, y 2 cup molasses, y 2 cup cold 
coffee, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon and cloves, 1 cup dried currants, 2 
cups of flour. Bake in pattie pans. 

Devil's Food Cake. 

Part 1. One cup brown sugar, y 2 cup butter, % 
cup milk (sweet or sour), 2% cups flour, yolks of 3 
eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking powder. Part 2. One cup 
grated chocolate, then another cup brown sugar, y 2 
cup sweet milk. Put the second part on stove. Do ! 
not boil. When cool stir in part 1 and bake in 3 
layers. Icing — One and one-half cups granulated 
sugar. Pour on a little water, boil until stringy, then 
pour over whites of 3 well beaten eggs and whip for 
10 minutes. Flavor with vanilla. 

No. 2. Part 1. One cup brown sugar, 1 cup 
chocolate, 1 cup sweet milk. Cook. Part 2. One cup 
brown sugar, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 
1 teaspoon soda, 2 cups flour, scant 2 teaspoons va- 
nilla. Put all together and bake in layers. 

No. 3. One-half cup butter, creamed; add grad- 
ually \y 2 cups sugar and beat well, 6 yolks of 3 beaten 
eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Add alternately y 2 cup milk 
and V-/ 2 cups flour, to which has been added 5 tea- 
spoons cocoa and 2 teaspoons baking powder. Beat 
well and add the well beaten whites of eggs. Icing, 
boil % cup sugar and one-third cup boiling water till 
it threads, then add slowly to the beaten whites of 1 
egg and 1 cup nut meats. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 

One cup molasses, y 2 cup boiling water, 3 table- 
spoons melted butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 cups flour. 
Salt and spice to taste. 

No. 2. One cup molasses, y 2 cup sugar, 1 egg, 5 



tablespoons shortening, 1 teaspoon soda, flour, ginger, 
cinnamon and salt. 

Chocolate Loaf Cake. 
Grate y 2 cake chocolate and mix with y 2 cup milk 
and yolk of 1 egg and put on back of stove to dis- 
solve, when thoroughly warm set off to cool while 
preparing the following: Two eggs, the yolk of one 
having been used, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 
scant teaspoon soda, dissolved in a little water. Add 
chocolate mixture and enough flour to make a thin 
batter that will pour smooth. Bake carefully. 

Pork Cake. 

One pound fat salt pork chopped fine, pour over 
it 1 pint boiling water, then add 1 pound seeded 
rais.i.s chopped, % pound citron, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 teaspoon soda rubbed fine and put in the 
molasses, 1 ounce of nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon. 
Bake very slowly. 

Cloves Cake. 
Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 cup 
currants, 2 medium sized, 3 cups flour in 1 cup butter, 
milk, y> teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Marble Cake. 

White part — One cup sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 
1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Dark part — One cup brown sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 
y 2 cup butter, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspons baking powder, 
1 nutmeg, 1 teaspoon allspice, y 2 teaspoon cloves, yolk 
of 4 eggs. 

Angel Cake. 

Whites of 9 large eggs, \y 2 cups sifted granulated 
sugar, 1 cup sifted flour, y 2 teaspoon cream of tartar, 
a pinch of salt added to egg before beating, after sift- 
ing flour 4 or 5 times measure, set aside 1 cup, then 
sift and measure 1*4 cups granulated sugar. Beat 
white of eggs about half. Add cream of tartar and 
beat till very stiff. Then stir in sugar, then flour, 
very lightly; put in pan in moderate oven at once. It 
will bake in 30 to 35 minutes. 

Pound Cake. 
Wash and dry % pound butter. Beat it with the 
hand till creamy; then add V 2 pound of sugar, beat till 
it is like the lightest and whitest hard sauce; then 
add 1 egg. Beat till it is quite incorporated, then add 
another and beat again, etc., till 5 eggs are used. 
Take care that each egg is thoroughly incorporated 
before the next is added; this requires from 3 to 5 
minutes' beating to the egg. Upon sufficient beating 
the success of the cake depends. When eggs, sugar 
and butter look like thick yellow cream add grad- 
ually a sherry glass of wine or brandy and y 2 wine 
glass of rosewater, mix well, then sift into the in- 
gredients y 2 pound of the finest flour, well dried and 
slightly warm, to which y 2 a saltspoon of salt has 



been added. Line a round cake pan with uprigh 
sides with buttered paper neatly fitted, and pour the 
batter into it. Sift powdered sugar over the surface. 
Bake 1 hour in a slow oven. It should have a card- 
board cover laid on the top for the first hour, which 
may then be removed and the cake allowed to brown 
slowly. In turning be very careful not to shake or 
jar it. 

No. 2. One pound sugar, 1 pound butter, 14 pounds 
flour, 10 eggs, 1 lemon rind, grated, and Vo the juice 
if large, soda the size of a pea dissolved in 1 table- 
spoon of cold water. Beat eggs separately and very 
thoroughly, adding whites last and folding them in. 
Citron and other fruit may be added, thus making yel- 
low fruit cake. 

No. 3. One pound flour, 1 pound sugar, % pound 
butter, whites of 16 eggs. Flavor to taste. (One-half 
of this recipe may be used. ) 

Spice Cake. 

One cup sugar, § cup sour milk, 1 egg, butter the I 
size of egg, small teaspoon of soda, % teaspoon each] 
of allspice, cloves and cinnamon, 1 cup flour. 

No. 2. One cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 cup raisins, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 small tea-| 
spoon soda, spice of all kinds. 

Sunshine Cake. 

One cup sugar, % cup pastry flour, sift separately; 
5 times and set aside, whites of 7 eggs and yolks of| 
4 eggs. Beat whites partly stiff and add 1 scant tea- 
spoon cream of tartar, then beat till very stiff. Add 
sugar slowly, then fold in yolks and last the flour and 
1 teaspoon vanilla. Do not stir more than necessary! 
and bake in a moderate oven from 30 to 40 miuutes. 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

One and one-half cups apple sauce, scant y 2 cup 
butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins, 2 tea- 
spoons soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, a little nutmeg 
and cloves. Bake in loaf with a slow fire. Nuts or 
citron may be added. 

Orange Cake. 
One and a half cups of sugar, % cup of butterJ 

whites of 4 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 2 cups of flour. Fill- 
ing: 1 apple, stewed and sifted; 2 oranges, grated; 
yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten; sugar. Cook until the 
consistency of thick cream. Yolk of one egg for 
frosting. 

Almond Cakes. 

One cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup of 

flour, 14 pound of grated almonds. Work with the 

hand and place in tart molds the thickness of pie 

crust. Bake in a slow oven. 



Sponge Gingerbread. 
Two and a quarter cups of molasses, \ x /-> cups of 
sour milk, % cup of melted butter, 3 eggs, 3 tea- p 



spoons soda, 3 teaspoons ginger, 5%, or perhaps 6, 
cups of flour. 

Molasses Cake for Lunch. 

One cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup boiling 
water, 1 tablespoon melted butter, flour enough to 
make a soft batter; */> teaspoon ginger. To be eaten 
warm. If used as a dessert, serve it with a lemon 
sauce. 

White Mountain Cake. 

Two cups butter, 4 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup 
milk, 5 eggs. Bake in jelly pans and put icing be- 
tween each layer. Three eggs will make icing enough 
for the quantity, 2 heaping teaspoons baking power. 
Flavor with bitter almonds. 

Blueberry Cake. 
Three pints sifted flour, 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup but- 
ter, 1 pint sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 pint blueberries, 1 
teaspoon soda in the milk and 2 teaspoons cream of 
tartar in the flour. Bub the butter, sugar and eggs 
together, then add the milk with soda, then the flour 
with cream of tartar, and lastly, stir the blueberries 
in gently, and bake three-quarters of an hour in two 
long pans. Very nice. 

Davis Cake. 
One cup (or 5 ounces) butter, 2 cups, not quite full, 
sugar, 3 cups even full of flour, 1 cup, not quite full, 
sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 5 eggs (whites 
only), 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Baisin Loaf. 
Make at night or early in the morning a rising of 
a cup of warm milk, a cup of flour and a third of a 
small yeast cake. In the morning, or when very light, 
cream 1 large spoon butter, y 2 cup sugar and 1 egg 
together, and work into the rising with flour enough 
to make a soft dough; add a suspicion of cinnamon 
and a scrap of grated lemon peel. Let it rise four 
hours, or longer, if it is not completely honeycombed, 
then add a half cup of seeded and floured raisins; put 
into the pan and let it rise again about a half hour. 
Bake three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Frostings and Fillings. 

Boiled Frosting. 
One cup sugar, £ cup water, cook until it makes 
a thread when dropped from the spoon. Have a 
white of egg beaten stiff. When the sugar first comes 
to a boil take 2 tablespoons of it and put in the 
partly beaten egg. This will prevent frosting becom- 
ing hard. Add the hot sugar to the egg slowly and 
beat well till cool enough to set and put on the cake. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

Two ounces shaved chocolate, l 1 ^ teaspoons sugar. 
Melt together and add to the above boiled frosting. 
Flavor with vanilla. 



Caramel. 
One cup sugar, 2 teaspoons molasses, 4 tablespoons 
sweet milk, 1 small tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon va- 
nilla. Boil 5 minutes. 

Raisin Filling. 

One and one-half cups seeded raisins, chopped fine, 
§ cup sugar, % cup milk; mix all together and boil 
thick. 

Fig Filling. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, boil with 
y-2 cup water until it threads from a spoon when 
dropped. Add 1 dozen figs (% pound) cut up into 
bits. Cook till soft. Beat the whites of 4 eggs very- 
stiff and slowly pour the syrup over it, beating all 
the while until thick enough to spread. 

Orange Filling. 

White of 1 egg beaten stiff. Add powdered sugar 
until the beaten whites are as stiff as required for 
frosting. Then grate in the rind of 1 small orange 
and add the juice of two. 

Maple Frosting. 

Take 5 tablespoons water to y 2 pound maple sugar, 
dissolve, and boil five minutes, turn into a deep plate 
and stir briskly until it begins to grow thick and look 
creamy, then put carefully over the cake. Care must 
be taken not to stir until too hard. If it should be- 
come rough it can be smoothed with a knife dipped in 
hot water. 

Cream Frosting (Without Eggs). 

One cup granulated sugar and 5 tablespoons milk. 
Let this be dissolved by stirring, then boil hard five 
minutes, pour into a deep pan plate and stir until it 
begins to thicken, when pour over the cake. Flavor 
to the taste. This makes creamy delicious frosting. 
It is very nice to have ready some chopped raisins 
and nuts, and stir into this, making a nut frosting. 
This will keep moist for a long time. 

Cookies and Doughnuts. 

White Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, 2 eggs, % cup butter, § cup sour 
cream, fill with sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons 
cream tartar and flour enough to mold out very soft. 

No. 2. One cup butter or part lard, 2 cups sugar, 
1 cup sour cream, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, flour and 
salt. 

No. 3. One and one-half cups sugar, 1 cup thick 
sour cream, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, a pinch of salt and 
a little nutmeg', 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
hot water, 1 teaspoon baking powder sifted in this 
flour. Sprinkle with sugar before baking. 

Ginger Snaps. 
Two cups butter, 3 cups sorghum or a very thick 
molasses, 2 heaping teaspoons soda, 1 teaspoon ginger, 



2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon allspice, flour to 
make stiff and knead 20 minutes. Eoll thin and bake 
in a quick oven. 

No. 2. Three cups flour, 2 teaspoons soda, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon salt and cinnamon. 
Put together in the sieve and sift 3 or 4 times, then 
rub 1 cup shortening, then add 2 cups molasses and 
a large cup sour milk and 2 teaspoons vinegar. 

Ginger Cookies. 
Two cups molasses, 1 cup white sugar, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 cup lard, 1 teaspoon cinnamon and soda. 

Peanut Cookies. 
One cup chopped peanuts, 2 scant tablespoons but- 
ter, 1 egg, beaten, y 2 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons milk, 
1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and a pinch of 
salt. Drop on buttered tins and sprinkle with cocoa- 
nut. 

Cookies. 
One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 1 
teaspoon of soda. Use as little flour as possible to 
roll. Eoll thin and bake quickly. The cookies should 
be tender, not brittle. 

Hermits. 
One and one-half cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 

1 teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon, cloves and nut- 
meg, 1 cup raisins chopped fine, 1 cup hickory nut, 
flour to the consistency of gems. Drop on buttered 
pans and bake. 

No. 2. One and one-half cups light brown sugar, 
§ cup butter, 2 eggs, % cup molasses, iy 3 cups cur- 
rants, 1 teaspoon soda, x k teaspoon nutmeg. Drop 
from spoon. 

Doughnuts. 

Two-thirds cup sour cream, 1 cup sugar, 1% butter- 
milk, l 1 ^ teaspoon soda, pinch salt, 1 egg, % nutmeg, 

2 teaspoon baking powder. Mix soft, and roll out to 
about % inch in thickness, cut in the usual shape 
with a cutter for that purpose and drop into the hot 
grease. The grease should be lard and very hot. Test 
its heat by first dropping a little of the dough in and 
seeing if it cooks it well. As soon as the doughnut 
rises from the bottom of the kettle after it has been 
put in, turn it over. Frequent turning insures uniform 
color and cooking. 

No. 2. One cup sugar, 3 eggs, 3 teaspoons short- 
ening, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder in flour, 2 teaspoons lemon extract; mix 
soft and cook as above. 

No. 3. One cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 table- 
spoons melted butter, 2 eggs, salt and nutmeg to taste, 
flour to make soft dough. 

Rocks. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 

3 eggs, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon 



soda dissolved in warm water, 2 1 /o cups flour, 1% cups 
chopped raisins, 1 pound or more nuts. Drop on tin. 

Lept Kuchen. 

Two cups syrup, 1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, % nutmeg, V-> lemon rind, y* teaspoon cloves. 
Let this dissolve on the stove and after cool add 1 
pound sugar, 3 eggs, y 2 pound pealed and finely cut 
almonds, 1 teaspoon soda, and stiffen with flour; y% 
pound citron; work it with your hands for 1 hour, 
roll out and cut into squares. 

No. 2. Five eggs stirred with 1 pound powdered 
sugar, 5c cinnamon and some cloves, % almonds, citron, 
a little ammonia, 1 pound flour. Eoll out and cut. 

Boston Cookies. 
One cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
soda, iy 2 cups hot water, 3% cups flour, y 2 teaspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup chopped nuts, English 
walnuts, y-2 cup currants, y 2 cup raisins, § cup citron 
and lemon peel, orange. Cream the butter, add sugar 
gradually and eggs well beaten. Then add soda dis- 
solved in water, y 2 the flour in which the salt and 
cinnamon have been mixed, then the nut meat, fruit 
and remaining flour. Drop by spoonful an inch apart 
in the tin and bake in a moderate oven. 

Oat Meal Cookies. 
One cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, *4 cup milk, 
iy 2 cups flour, 2 cups oatmeal, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup 
walnuts, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon soda. Drop 
from a teaspoon on a buttered tin. 

Date Sticks. 
One cup walnut meats, broken, 1 cup finely cut 
dates, 1 cup powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 eggs 
beaten separately. Bake in a flat tin in a slow oven 
with paper under it. 

Blitz Kuchen (Cookies). 
One-half pound or 1 large coffee cup butter, % 
pound or 1 scant coffee cup sugar, y 2 pound or l 1 /^ 
coffee cups flour, 4 eggs, grated rind of 1 lemon; some 
blanched almonds, cut in thin slices; ground cinnamon. 
Melt the butter, pour off from the settlings and stir 
to a cream, then add alternately a little sugar and an 
egg till all are used, add flavoring and flour, spread 
very thin in square tins, strew on some sugar, cinna- 
mon and almonds, bake in a quick oven, to a light 
brown. While hot, cut in diamond shaped pieces. 

Puddings. 

Corn Pudding. 

Score the kernels of 6 large ears of corn, scrape 

the pulp from the cobs, or use 1 can of corn and force 

through a colander. Add % cup milk, y 2 teaspoon salt 

and pepper, 2 eggs, beat separately very light. First 



add the yolks, then the whites and a tablespoon of 
melted butter. Put in baking dish and bake y 2 hour. 

Apple Pudding. 

Pare and remove the cores of 6 apples, lay in a 
buttered pudding dish and pour over them a batter 
made of 1 pint sifted flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
y<2 cup cream, 1^ cups milk, 4 beaten eggs and salt. 
Bake 1 hour. Sauce: 1 teacup sugar, 1 tablespjon 
butter, 2 cups boiling water, 1 tablespoon corn stsrch, 
flavor with cinnamon. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup suet, chopped fine, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 3^ cups flour, 1 cup fruit, 1 teaspoon soda, 
a little salt. Steam 3 hours. Serve with a sweet 
sauce. 

Sauce: 3 cups sugar, y 2 cup vinegar, thicken with 
flour rubbed smooth in cold water. This is improved 
by adding % glass of jelly. 

No. 2. One pound raisins, % pound suet, x / 2 pound 
currants, y 2 pound citron, iy 2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 pint flour. Add to this a slice 
of bread, mix altogether and allow to stand a while. 
Just before putting on to steam, beat 3 eggs light and 
put in enough sweet milk to thoroughly moisten the 
ingredients. Put in a bag and boil 8 hours. 

Peach Pudding. 

Butter a pudding dish, Vi cup sugar, 1 layer peaches, 
apples sliced thin, then cover with % cup sugar. Dot 
with butter and lay over it batter made as follows: 
1 cup flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder. Bake y 2 hour. 

Prune Whips. 
Boil V<2 pound prunes until very tender, then remove 
the stones and chop in small pieces. Beat the whites of 
5 eggs to a stiff froth, add y 2 cup powdered sugar, y 2 
teaspoon cream tartar and a pinch of salt. Flavor with 
vanilla. Add the prunes a little at a time and stir 
well. Bake 5 minutes, just brown slightly. 

Prune Souffle. 

Five eggs, whites only, tablespoons powdered 
sugar, y 2 level teaspoon cream tartar, y 2 teaspoon salt, 
$ pound prunes. Stew the prunes, drain, remove the 
stone and chop to a pulp. Mix sugar, salt and cream 
tartar together thoroughly. Whip white of eggs very 
stiff and then whip in the dry ingredients. Cut and 
fold the prunes into the eggs until the mixture is in 
uniform color. Set baking in a pan of hot water and 
bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Pineapple, straw- 
berries, orange and raspberries can be used in the same 
way. 

Tapioca Pudding. 
Three tablespoons of tapioca that has been soaked 
in cold water till it has become swollen enough, then 
add 1 quart sweet milk and cook in a double boiler until 



the tapioca is tender. Add yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, 
1 small cup of sugar, a little salt; stir into the boiling 
milk, flavor with vanilla, then pour y 2 of it into a dish, 
add the whites of the beaten eggs; then pour the re- 
mainder on the top. Cool. 

Cream Tapioca Pudding. 

Soak 3 tablespoons of tapioca in water over night. 
Put it into quart of milk and boil 30 minutes. Beat the 
yolks of 4 eggs with tablespoon of sugar and add 3 
tablespoons of cocoanut; stir in and boil 4 minutes 
longer. Flavor with 1 tablespoon of vanilla and pour 
into pudding dish. Beat the whites of the eggs with 3 
tablespoons of sugar added. Pour over the top, then 
sprinkle with cocoanut and brown in oven. Serve very 
cold. 

Cherry Pudding. 

One loaf bread, 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 
6 tablespoons sugar, 5 eggs, grated rind of 1 lemon, a 
little cinnamon. Heat the milk, break the bread in 
small pieces, and put into the milk; cook till it sep- 
arates from the kettle; take from the fire and after it 
has cooled, add butter, sugar, yolks of eggs, lemon rind, 
cinnamon, and last, the beaten whites of eggs. Butter 
well a pudding mold, one with a tight-fitting cover; put 
into it in alternate layers, first the batter, then cher- 
ries, until all are used. End with batter. Steam two 
hours. 

Graham Pudding. (Excellent.) 

One cup molasses, 1 cup milk, nearly 2 cups graham 
flour, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
egg, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste, 2 cups raisins 
stoned, 1% cups raisins chopped, % cup of them whole. 
Begin with the molasses, dissolve the soda in a little 
warm water, stir into the molasses, then stir in the 
milk, then a little of the flour, about half, then the egg 
beaten very light, then the spices, then the rest of the 
flour mixed with the fruit. Add a little salt and steam 
three hours. It must be put together very quickly. Eat 
with foaming wine sauce. 

Meringue Pudding. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with thick slices 
of sponge cake (or any stale plain cake will do), then 
spread over it, thickly, raspberry or blackberry jam. 
Make a custard of the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 quart milk, and flavor with lemon. Pour this 
over the jam, and when cool, beat the whites of the 
eggs with 2 tablespoons sugar, spread over the top and 
brown in the oven. Let it stand several hours before 
using. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange. 

One box of gelatine (Cox) dissolved in a pint of 
cold water, 3 pints of milk; put over to boil with one 
cup of French chocolate; when the milk is just scalded 
pour in the gelatine, sweeten to taste, boil five minutes, 
then take from the fire, flavor with vanilla, pour into 



molds. When cold serve with powdered sugar and 
cream. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
Break in small pieces dry bread to make 1 pint. 
Pour over it 1 quart milk, 2 tablespoons sugar and 2 
squares grated chocolate. Stir together and bake y 2 
hour. Stir again and bake again for % hour. 

Lemon Pudding. 
Two cups baker's bread, grated or chopped very 
fine, after removing all crust; grate rind of 1 lemon,. 
Y-2 cup sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 quart milk. Bake 
about 20 minutes or half an hour in a good oven. 
When done, spread whites of 4 eggs, well beaten with 
half a cup of sugar and juice of the lemon over the top. 
Place in the oven and brown lightly. 

Fruit Pudding. 

One cup chopped suet, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup raisins, 
1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, spices 
to taste. Boil 4 hours in a farina kettle; then put in 
the oven 15 minutes, and turn out. Serve with wine 
sauce. 

Apple Float. 

Stew partially 1 quart apples, then mash well; add 
the whites of 3 eggs, well beaten, and a heaping table- 
spoon loaf sugar. Beat all together 15 minutes, and eat 
with cream spiced with nutmeg. 

Sponge Pudding. 
One cup chopped suet, or % cup butter; 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 cup milk, 3% cups flour, 2 eggs, 1 cup raisins, 
1 cup currants, citron and spices to taste, 1 small tea- 
spoon soda, beaten in the molasses. Steam 3 hours and 
serve with wine sauce. If suet is used, a pinch of salt 
should be added. Many prefer this to a plum pudding, 
because it is not so rich. 

Herodotus Pudding. 
One pound fine raisins, stoned, 1 pound minced beef 
suet, % pound bread crumbs, 4 figs, chopped fine, 2 
tablespoons honey, 2 wine glasses Greek wine, the rind 
of a lemon, grated; boil 3 hours. Sherry may replace 
the Greek wine. Sugar may be used instead of honey. 

Fig Pudding. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup milk, 
3^ cups flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, y 2 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 pint of figs, chopped. 

Farina Pudding. 
One coffee cup farina, % cup butter, 1 pint milk, 
y A cup sugar, 6 eggs, grated rind of 1 lemon, 10 al- 
monds, blanched and chopped. Boil the milk, let farina 
run slowly into it, and stir till the mass separates from 
the kettle. Then remove from the fire and stir into it 
the sugar, butter, lemon rind, salt, yolks one by one, 
and last, the beaten whites of the eggs. Bake slowly 
one hour. 



Crust Dough for Pies. 

One heaping cup flour, 1 saltspoon baking powder, 
1 saltspoon salt, y> cup lard; mix baking powder and 
salt with flour, rub in the lard till fine and dry. Mix 
to a stiff paste with cold water. 

Directions — Always have a quick oven at first. Do 
not grease the pie plate. Whenever an upper crust is 
used cut holes for the steam to escape. 

Pies. 

Lemon Pies. 
\ x /-2 cups water, 1 cup granulated sugar, juice of 

1 lemon, salt, $£ teaspoon butter, 3 large teaspoons corn 
starch; put the water in a double boiler, then add sugar 
and lemon juice. While this boils add the corn starch, 
then put in the beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Then take the 
whites of 2 eggs well beaten and a little powdered 
sugar and place on top. Bake the crust first, then add 
the mixture and frosting and bake a few minutes. 

No. 2. Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup 
sugar, yolk of 3 eggs, § cup water, 2 tablespoons flour. 
Bake and spread with beaten froth of eggs. 

No. 3. (Excellent.) Grate 1 lemon, not too close; 
beat well the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 even cup sugar, mixed 
with 2 tablespoons flour, butter the size of an egg, the 
juice of 1 lemon. Add 1% cups boiling water. Let all 
boil a few minutes, then turn in the lemon shell, beat 
the white stiff, add M> cup of sugar, then put in the 
oven to brown. 

Mock Cherry Pies. 

One cup cranberries, cut lengthwise; 1 cup sugar, 2 
large teaspoons flour, % cup water, small piece butter. 
Mix all together a few minutes in the water. Make pie 
with 2 crusts. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Use canned pumpkin; 1 cup pumpkin, 1 cup sugar, 
% cup milk, 2 eggs beaten light, % nutmeg grated, y± 
teaspoon cinnamon, butter size of an egg melted, 1 tea- 
spoon lemon. Bake slowly for nearly 1 hour. 

Mince Pies. 
To 1 quart of finely chopped mincemeat add 1 heap- 
ing teaspoon salt and V2 teaspoon pepper, 2 quarts 
finely chopped apples, 1 teacup vinegar, 1 cup molasses, 

2 teacups sugar, 1 pound currants, 1 nutmeg grated, 1 
teaspoon ground cloves, 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon, 
butter the size of an egg. Wet with enough water, 
sweet cider or sweet pickle liquor to make the mixture 
moist and juicy. Put over the fire and boil for 14 an 
hour. When making pie add raisins. 

No. 2. Five pounds lean beef boiled and chopped 
fine, 1% pounds kidney suet chopped fine, 3 pounds 
best raisins, 2 pounds currants, 1 pound shredded citron, 
1 pound candied lemon, y 2 pound candied orange, 2 
quarts chopped apple, 1 gallon sweet cider, 1 glass cur- 
rant jelly, 3 cups granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2% 
ounces ground cinnamon, V> ounce ground allspice. Boil 



the cider with suet and salt for 15 minutes, add the 
chopped apples and sugar, then the beef and rest of the 
fruits. Boil % hour, then add jelly and spices, stir- 
ring, and put away hot, either in stone or mason jars. 

Custard Pie. 

Line a deep plate with a rim crust, heat 1 pint milk, 
rub 1 teaspoon flour smooth with % cup cold milk, add 
to the boiling milk and cook 5 minutes. Pour upon 3 
beaten eggs % cup sugar, 1 saltspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Strain hot into the plate; bake slowly, never 
letting it boil. It is done when knife blade makes a 
clean cut. 

Apple Pie. 

Line plate with dough. Fill with apples, pared, 
cored and sliced. Fill the plate rounding, cover the 
apples with % cup sugar and put on crust. 

Rhubarb Pie. 
Cut into inch bits, pour over them boiling water and 
let stand 10 minutes, then drain, and sprinkle lightly 
with flour. For a 10 inch plate add a heaping cup of 
sugar. Cut a tablespoon of butter in bits and cover 
with crust. Bake in hot oven 10 minutes, then more 
slowly for 20 minutes. 

Jellies, Preserves and Pickles. 

Uncooked Currant Jelly. 

Mash the currants in a kettle, cook until soft with- 
out adding water, pour them into a cloth and hang up 
to drain. Do not squeeze. When all drained measure 
and put on the stove to warm buf not boil. Add as 
much sugar as juice and stir till dissolved. If the 
jelly does not thicken add more sugar. 

Currant Jelly. 
Take currants as soon as they are ripe; wash and 
drain them, then put them in the preserving kettle 
and let them get hot and burst; then throw them into 
a bag and let the juice run, without squeezing. To a 
pint of juice allow a pint of sugar. Boil the juice five 
minutes, then add the sugar, which has been heated in 
the oven, and as soon as it is melted, take the kettle 
from the fire, not allowing the juice to boil, after the 
sugar is in. Squeeze the currants after all the clear 
juice has been run off, and treat as above; it will not 
be so clear, but will be equally nice to eat. 

Cooked Currant Jelly. 

Two and one-half quarts currant juice, 1 quart 
water; boil 6 minutes, mixing in the juice and allowing 
it to come to a boil again; add 7 pounds sugar or 1 
pound per quart of liquid. Skim, and allow to boil 3 
minutes. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Two oranges sliced very thin, 2 lemons sliced thin 
and cut across in small pieces, V 2 grape fruit meat. 
Pour over all 3 pints cold water and let stand for 24 
hours or over night. Put on fire and boil till the rind 



is tender. Add 2% pints sugar and boil V 2 hour. Set 
aside till the next morning, then boil till the mixture 
will form a jelly. Pour into jelly tumblers. It is best 
to run the fruit through a meat grinder instead of 
cutting it. It will be more uniform in size. 

Plum Conserve. 
Five pounds of plums, 3 pounds of sugar, 2 pounds 
of raisins, 4 oranges. Pit the plums, grate the peel 
of the oranges, remove and throw out the white pithy 
part, slice the pulp and cook all together % hour. 

Heavenly Hash. 
Five quarts cherries stoned and chopped, 5 oranges 
run through a grinder, 1 pound finely chopped raisins, 
5 pounds sugar. Mix, put on fire and cook to a jam. 

Green Tomato Pickles. 
One peck green tomatoes, 3 large onions, 3 peppers, 
Ys pound white mustard seed, 2 tablespoons celery 
seed. Chop all very fine and put in layers, 1 of to- 
matoes, 1 of salt, using not more than % cup of it, 
and a layer of onions. Allow to stand 24 hours, then 
squeeze dry and boil in 1 quart vinegar. Cook till 
tender, then, when nearly done, add % pound sugar. 
Put in cans well sealed. 

Ginger Pears. 

Eight pounds fruit, pears, 8 pounds sugar, juice of 
4 lemons, the rind chopped very fine, 2 ounces ginger 
root soaked over night and chopped into the lemon 
rinds. Make a syrup of the sugar, add the other in- 
gredients and cook till the syrup thickens, cool very 
slowly. 

Ripe Cucumber Pickle. 

Quarter, seed, soak in strong brine for 10 days, 
keeping well submerged. Remove them from the brine 
and soak 1 day in clear, cold water, 1 night in a weak 
alum water, drain well. Add 1 quart vinegar, 6 cups 
sugar. Put cloves, mace and cinnamon tied in bags 
into the cucumbers, sugar and vinegar, and allow to 
simmer till tender. Remove the spices when done, or 
leave them in. 

Pepper Hash. 

Twelve green peppers, 12 large red peppers and on- 
ions, ground separately, 15 large white onions, 3 table- 
spoons salt, 2 cups sugar, 1 quart vinegar. When cut 
up boil with the vinegar. 

Remove the insides of the peppers and chop. Turn 
boiling water on the red ones and squeeze dry by 
putting them in a colander and pressing them through 
with a spoon so as to save burning the hands. Then 
put the red ones into cold water enough to cover and 
let them come to a boil, press dry and add onions, 
chopped fine, vinegar, salt and boil 10 minutes. Re- 
peat the above with the green peppers. Caution: 
Grease the hand well with lard before cutting the red 
peppers. This will prevent them burning. 



Chow-Chow. 
One peck of green tomatoes, 2 heads of cabbage, 
12 large white onions, 12 green peppers; sprinkle with 
salt; chop fine; let stand from 12 to 24 hours; drain 
well through a sieve, cover with cider vinegar, heat 
to the boiling point; when hot, add 4 tablespoons of 
mixed mustard; when cold, add 2 tablespoons of tur- 
meric, 2 teaspoons of curry, 4 tablespoons of mixed 
mustard; 2 cups of sweet oil, 2 cups of white mustard 
seed, 2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of horse radish; mix thor- 
oughly together and bottle; ready for use in 10 days. 

Oil Cucumber Pickles. 
Pare and slice 25 cucumbers, 1 teacup each of black 
and white mustard seed, 1 tablespoon of celery, y 2 cup 
of salt, 1 cup of sweet oil poured over; lastly, fill up 
with cold vinegar enough to cover well. Cover tightly, 
and eat in a month's time. Very good. 

Sweet Cucumbers. 
Put them in brine, strong enough to bear up a 
potato, for three days. Scald the brine every day and 
pour over them when cold. Then put them into vinegar 
and water for 24 hours. Put them in a large stone jar 
in layers of cucumbers, sprinkling over them a teaspoon 
of alum and 2 teaspoons of sugar, a sliced onion, large, 
and a sliced pepper, green; then cucumbers, etc., until 
the jar is full, over which pour the scalding vinegar. 

Cucumber Pickles. 
Take 2 peeks of small cucumbers, make a strong 
brine, heat boiling hot and pour over the cucumbers; 
let them stand 24 hours, then take out and wipe dry, 
scald vinegar (weak vinegar will do) and pour over 
them and let stand 24 hours, then pour off, and to 
fresh vinegar add 1 quart of brown sugar, 2 large green 
peppers, y 2 pint of white mustard, 6 cents worth of 
ginger-root, the same of cinnamon, allspice and cloves; 
1 tablespoon of celery seed; alum the size of a but- 
ternut; scald all, and pour boiling hot over the pickles. 
Pleasing to the taste of all pickle eaters. 

Sweet Tomato Preserves. 

One-half bushel of small yellow tomatoes, boil until 
the skin can be easily removed; to 1 pound of fruit add 
1 pound of sugar; for this quantity, add % pound of 
ginger, green or bleached, cut in pieces, and 4 lemons 
sliced. Boil all together ten minutes; take out toma- 
toes and boil syrup twenty minutes, and pour over fruit 
in jars. 

Mustard Pickles. 

One and one-half quarts medium cucumbers cut to 
pieces, 1 quart small green tomatoes or a quart of wax 
beans, 1 quart onions, 1 large cauliflower cut fine, 4 
green peppers cut fine. Make a brine of 4 quarts water 
and 2 cups salt, pour over the vegetables and allow to 
stand 24 hours. After standing heat the mixture 
enough to scald it, drain in a colander. While this is 
heating mix 1 cup flour, 6 tablespoons ground mustard, 
1 tablespoon tumeric powder, to color, with cold vine- 



gar enough to make a smooth paste, then add 1 cup 
brown sugar, then enough vinegar to make 2 quarts 
in all. Boil till thickens, stirring all the time. Add 
vegetables and heat through. This will make 4 quarts. 

Chopped Tomato Pickle. 
One peck ripe chopped tomatoes, drained, 2 large 
cups chopped celery, 2 cups chopped onions, 5 green 
peppers, 1 cup white mustard seed, 2 cups white sugar, 
!/4 cup salt, 5 cups vinegar, 2 tablespoons whole mixed 
spice, horse radish root to keep vinegar. 

Sauces, 

Onion Sauce. 

To be served with either roast mutton or pork. Boil 
the onions until tender; chop fine after being thor- 
oughly drained. Have ready half a pint of scalding 
milk, seasoned with butter, salt and pepper; a little 
cayenne. Stir in the onions and thicken; cook a few 
minutes and serve. 

Chutney. 

Four pounds dates boiled in vinegar to a paste and 
strained, 1 tablespoon salt, l^o tablespoons black pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon mixed mustard, 2 coffee cups sugar, 
7 small onions boiled and rubbed through a colander, 1 
tablespoon ground cloves, 1 tablespoon allspice, 1 tea- 
spoon cayenne; mix all, put into a kettle, boil 15 min- 
utes; add 2 tablespoons preserved citron chopped fine. 

Tartan Sauce. 

The yolks of 2 eggs, 6 tablespoons olive oil, dessert 
spoon capers and 2 olives, chopped very fine, 3 table- 
spoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard, a little cayenne 
pepper; salt to taste. 

Parsley Sauce. 

To be used with boiled chicken, boiled salt pork, 
baked whitefish, boiled salmon or lima beans. 

Take a large bunch of parsley, wash clean, boil with 
stems on, in as little water as possible, into which drop 
a piece of soda as large as a small pea, to keep the 
parsley green. When tender, take from the water, 
which must be saved; pick from stems; chop fine;, add 
as much rich milk to the water as needed, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, salt and pepper. Stir in 
parsley; thicken and cook a few minutes. Care must be 
taken not to get the sauce too thick. In serving with 
boiled chicken, cook the chicken in as little water as 
possible — boiling it down, if too much for the sauce, 
after the chicken is removed, and use this broth for 
the sauce instead of milk. 

Cream Sauce. 
Two ounces butter, % pint sweet cream, 3 table- 
spoons flour, pepper and salt. Melt the butter, stir in 
the flour, boil the cream and stir in pepper and salt. 

Cream Sauce. 
Put in sauce pan 1 cup butter; when melted stir in 
1 cup flour; when hot pour in 2 pints of boiling milk 



(or half milk and half cream); stir briskly to a smooth 
sauce; let it boil 20 minutes; season with salt and a 
little cayenne; strain, when it is ready to serve. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Twelve tomatoes, not skinned; % an onion, 1 clove, 

2 stalks parsley, 1 bayleaf, 5 pepper corns. Set over 
the fire and stir until they can be mashed through a 
colander. Then put back on the fire and thicken a little 
if desired. 

Chili Sauce. 
Thirty ripe tomatoes, very large ones, 8 green pep- 
pers, 8 onions, 5 teacups vinegar, 10 iron spoons sugar, 

3 tablespoons salt; chop onions and peppers, and boil 
all 1 hour. 

One peek ripe tomatoes, 4 cups chopped parsley, 4 
onions, 3 cups brown sugar, 1 ounce white mustard 
seed, 2 red peppers, 3 pints vinegar. Chop the toma- 
toes, add 2 cups salt, and let stand over night. Then 
drain through a colander and add the other ingredi- 
ents. Be sure that you do not cook this recipe. Peel 
the tomatoes without scalding if possible. 

Candies. 

Salted Almonds. 
Half a pound Jordan almonds, 1 heaping table- 
spoon melted butter, 1 heaping tablespoon salt. Pour 
butter on almonds in pan; sprinkle over them the salt 
and mix well; then brown a light brown in the oven, 
stirring them to keep them from burning. 

Peanut Brittle. 
One cup brown sugar, put dry in a skillet and 
place on the fire. Stir constantly until the sugar is 
melted and has become a bright amber color. Then 
add the peanuts, 1 cup, chopped, and stir in. Continue 
to stir till the candy begins to grain. 

Peanut Candy. 
One pound brown sugar, ife cup water, 2 table- 
spoons vinegar; boil and when nearly done add butter 
the size of a walnut. When it becomes brittle in water 
remove from the fire, crush the peanuts on buttered 
plates and pour the candy over them. Cool. 

Fudge. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup rich milk or cream, % cup 
ordinary milk, ^4 cake of chocolate cut into a cup, 
butter size of a walnut. Cook the sugar, milk and 
butter till it boils, taking care that it does not burn, 
then add the cut chocolate. Cook till it strings or can 
be molded when dropped into water. Add a little 
vanilla and stir rapidly and hard till it looks as though 
it were going to set. Turn it into greased tins. 

Fondant. 

White of one egg and beat it to a stiff froth, then 
add 1 pound of confectioners' sugar and beat till well 
mixed. Add flavoring and work till creamy with the 
hands. Then mold in the desired form, coat with choc- 



olate, or set nut meats on top, as you wish. Chopped 
nuts can also be mixed with the fondant, and various 
coloring matters may also be used. 

Caramels. 

Two cups brown sugar, 2 cups molasses, 1 cup 
cream or milk, 14 cup butter, y 2 pound grated chocolate, 
2 tablespoons flour. Boil the molasses, sugar, butter 
and flour together for 15 minutes, next stir the choc- 
olate to a cream and pour into the syrup. Boil till 
done. 

Unboiled Cream Candy. 

Put the whites of 2 eggs and an equal quantity of 
cold water into a bowl and beat till frothy. Then sift 
in sufficient confectioner sugar to make a stiff paste, 
work together till smooth. This may, like the fondant, 
be used as filling for dates, etc. 

Boiled Cream Candy. 

One quart sugar, 1 pint water, 2 tablespoons vine- 
gar. Boil same as molasses candy but do not stir. Try 
in cold water till hard. Then remove from fire, add 
vanilla and pull it. 

No. 2. Two cups granulated sugar, 1 cup cold 
water, y± cup vinegar and butter half the size of an 
egg. Flavor with vanilla. Boil till it hardens in cold 
water. Turn out on buttered plates and when cool 
enough to handle begin to pull it. 

Molasses Candy. 
One and one-half cups molasses, butter the size of 
an egg, % cup sugar, 2 tablespoons vinegar, % tea- 
spoon soda. Boil till stringy. Do not add the soda j 
till the candy is nearly done. A cup full of chopped 
nuts added to the candy adds to the taste. 

Chocolate Chips. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, § cup sugar, butter 
the size of a walnut, flavor with vanilla. Boil till 
hard. Pull into thin strips, cut in small pieces. When 
cold dip into hot chocolate flavored with vanilla and 
a little sweetened. 

Candied Orange Peel. 
Dip oranges in hot water, wipe well, rub with lump 
sugar to remove oil. Peel the oranges and put the 
skins in boiling water and cook till tender, changing 
the water twice, drain well, cut into strips and weigh. 
Take 1 pound sugar and Mj cup water to every pound 
of peel. Boil sugar and water a moment before add- 
ing the peel. Then allow to simmer until transparent; 
drain, roll each piece in fresh, uncooked sugar. Put in 
a warm oven to dry. 

Maple Peach. 
Boil 1 cup granulated sugar, maple sugar and cream 
till it will form a ball in water. Remove from the fire 
and add % cup soft, canned peaches, and the stiffly 
beaten white of one egg. Beat till the mixture is well 
blended and firm. Shape into squares with the fingers. 



Orange Cakes. 
Two cups granulated sugar and *4 cup water boiled 
till it will form a ball in water. Eemove from the 
fire and add *£ cup orange pulp and the stiffly beaten 
white of 1 egg. Beat till creamy and turn out on a 
greased board. Grease the rolling pin and roll the 
mixture out thin. Cut in squares and dip in either 
chopped almond or English walnut meats. 

Raspberry Balls. 

Cook 2 cups sugar with 1 cup canned raspberry 
juice till it stiffens in water. Eemove from the fire 
and add the stiff white of an egg, % cup of the berries 
and y-2 cup chopped walnut meats. Beat till creamy, 
shape in balls and roll in toasted eocoanut or dip in 
melted chocolate. 

Nut Candy. 

One-half cup New Orleans molasses, % cup granu- 
lated sugar, % cup butter, % pound figs, 1 cup pecan 
nut meats, 1 cup shellbark nut meats, 1% cups Brazil 
nut meats, l 1 /! cup English walnut meats, a pinch of 
baking soda. 

Boil the sugar and molasses as for molasses candy, 
till nearly done. Add the butter and continue to boil 
till it becomes brittle when dropped into water. Add 
the figs, which have been chopped and scraped and 
chopped very fine, add the soda and then the nuts. 
Mix well with the candy and pour into a buttered dish. 
When cool remove from the pan and cut in suitable 
sizes. 

Cherry Puffs. 

Wash y 2 pint cranberries and let them become firm 
and candied by boiling them in a thick syrup. Mix 
the cranberries with % pint very finely chopped nut 
meats and then shape the mixture into little balls 
between the fingers that have been well greased. Then 
dip them in melted chocolate and roll in powdered 
sugar. Set away for a few hours on a cold plate. 
Cherries, confectioners', may be used if desired. 

Nut Creams. 
Stir the white of 2 stiffly beaten eggs into 1 pound 
of confectioners' sugar. Add 2 teaspoons warmed mara- 
schino cherry juice and a cup of nut meats that have 
been put through the food chopper. Stir well and turn 
into a wet napkin, knead for 20 minutes, shape in 
cones and roll in chopped nuts. 

Almond Wafers. 
Into a flat, well greased pan pour a layer of melted 
sweet chocolate and place on this a layer of blanched 
almonds. Cover this with a layer of chocolate and set 
away to cool. When cool and perfectly dry cut in 
suitable size. 

Ice Creams and Ices. 
Instructions for Freezing Ice Cream. 
1st. Soak the tub in hot water; cold will do, but 
hot water is much better. This is done in order that 

102 



the porous wood may take up all the water it will, 
before you start freezing the cream. 

2nd. Shave the ice with an ice shave. The best 
article for this purpose is the Peerless Ice Chipper. If 
none is at hand, use an ordinary broad wood chisel. 
Do not break the ice in lumps with a hammer or block 
of wood, as many instructions read, as you want the 
ice as fine as possible. A great many people have the 
idea that by shaving the ice, you waste more ice. 
This is not true, however, as cream is frozen by the 
conversion of ice into water, under the general law that 
when a solid is converted into a liquid, or a liquid into 
a gas, heat is absorbed. By shaving the ice, therefore, 
you merely hasten the time of freezing. 

It would be well to place the lump of ice in a 
wooden wash-tub or other receptacle, and after shav- 
ing more than enough to completely fill the freezer, 
mix it with coarse common salt — one-third salt, two- 
thirds ice. Most directions say put in a layer of ice 
and then a layer of salt into the freezer, but it is a 
much better way to mix the ice and salt before put- 
ting it into the freezer. 

After scalding out the can to be sure it is fresh 
and clean, pour your mixture to be frozen (any kind 
of mixture except fruit cream; in making fruit cream 
never put in the fruit until cream is almost frozen) 
into the can, replace the can top and tub top; then fill 
the space around the can in the tub with the mixture 
of shaved ice and salt. Then pile it entirely over the 
top of the freezer, start turning the crank rapidly, and 
turn steadily without interruption for 3 minutes; if at 
that time it begins to turn very hard, and at some 
times almost seems to stop, turn the crank very care- 
fully for y-2 minute more and at the end of that time 
the cream will be frozen completely. See that the over- 
flow hole is open during the operation, and never under 
any circumstances bore any hole in the bottom of the 
tub to draw off water unless you stop it up with a 
cork during the freezing. When the cream once starts 
to freeze do not stop turning the crank for any length 
of time, because the dasher is very liable to freeze 
solid in the freezer. 

Ice Cream. 

To 1 quart cream add 1 tumbler fruit jam and 1 

tablespoon sugar; freeze. If strawberry or raspberry 

jam is used, after it is thoroughly dissolved in the 

cream, strain through a wire sieve to take out seeds. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, 1 pint milk, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 
whites only, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix the sugar with 
the cream and milk, add flavoring and strain into the 
freezer. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff and add to 
the contents of the freezer just before freezing. 

Whipped Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla; whip the cream till about half of it has been 

104 



taken off, add sugar and flavoring to the remainder and 
freeze. When partly frozen add the whipped cream 
and freeze hard. 

Frozen Custard. 
One quart rich milk, % pound sugar, 1 tablespoon 
corn starch, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Put the milk 
and sugar into a double boiler, reserving two table- 
spoons sugar to beat with the whites of the eggs; mix 
corn starch with a little cold milk and yolks of eggs, 
add to milk when boiling and stir till it thickens; it 
must not boil. Take from the fire and strain, and place 
in pan of cold water while you beat the whites and 
sugar. Stir all together and freeze. 

Lemon Ice Cream. 
Two quarts milk, 1 quart cream, 3 cups sugar, 3 
eggs, *4 box gelatine, juice of two lemons and 1 orange, 
grated rind of three lemons. Mix sugar, juice and rind 
of lemons, and orange juice, and set aside; soak gelatine 
in y 2 pint of milk, scald milk and cream, and pour 
over gelatine till dissolved. When cold, partly freeze; 
then add lemon juice and sugar, and eggs beaten sep- 
arately; turn the crank rapidly and freeze. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, 1 pint milk, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs 
beaten light, 5 tablespoons grated chocolate rubbed 
smooth in a little milk. Heat milk to near boiling, 
pour in slowly beaten eggs and sugar; then chocolate. 
Cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Cool, beat 
in the cream, and freeze. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, 1% large cups sugar, 1 pint strong 
coffee. Whip cream, mix coffee and sugar thoroughly, 
add to cream and freeze. 

Fruit Cream. 

One pint cream, 1 pint milk, 1 cup sugar, % pound 
figs chopped fine, % pound almonds, % can peaches. 
Mix well before putting into freezer. 

Pistachio Ice Cream. 

One quart cream, 1 cup sugar, ^ pound pistachio 
nuts, % teaspoon vanilla, y 2 teaspoon almond flavoring. 
Mix the cream and sugar, add nuts, which must be 
blanched and pounded. Add flavoring and a little spin- 
ach coloring just before freezing. The coloring is made 
by mixing the spinach sugar with a little of the cream 
till smooth. 

Glace Cream. 

One quart cream, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
white of 1 egg. Mix cream and % cup sugar, and 
partly freeze; take % cup sugar and y 2 cup water and 
boil till the syrup forms a soft ball when tried in 
water. Beat the white of 1 egg stiff and as soon as the 
syrup is ready pour it in the egg in a fine stream, and 
beat till stiff and cold, stir this gently into partly 
frozen cream and beat again till well mixed. Then 
pack it down and let stand 1 hour. 

106 



Macaron Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, 1 dozen stale macarons, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 wine glass sherry wine. Eoll and pound the 
macarons, strain through a fine gravy strainer; mix 
with cream, sugar and wine. Freeze. 

Apricot Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, % pound sugar, 1 pint can fruit, 
put half the cream in double boiler; when hot add 
sugar and stir till dissolved; add the remainder of the 
cream, and when cold freeze. When nearly frozen add 
the apricots, which have been mashed well. Allow to 
stand some time before using. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. 
One-half pound pineapple, % pound sugar, 1 pint 
cream, % pint milk, juice of one lemon. Grate pine- 
apple and add sugar and lemon juice; put cream and 
milk in freezer, and when partly frozen, add sugar 
and fruit. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, l / 2 cup milk, 1 teacup sugar, 1 
pineapple. Pare the pineapple, remove the core and 
eyes, and chop fine; sprinkle with sugar, % cup to 1 
pint of fruit; add juice of 1 lemon. Add this to the 
cream when partly frozen. 

Banana Ice Cream. 
One pint cream, 1 pint milk, % pound sugar, yolks 
of 3 eggs, 4 bananas. Scald the milk, and add the beat- 
en yolks and sugar; stir till it thickens. Add cream, 
and, when cool, the bananas, which should be mashed 
through a colander. Freeze at once. 

Peach Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, 1 pint milk, 2 cups sugar, whites 
of 2 eggs, 1 dozen ripe peaches. Pare and mash the 
peaches, add sugar, and let it stand; add cream and 
milk, and just before freezing, the beaten whites. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, 1 quart strawberries, 1 large cup 
sugar, 1 pint milk. Mash sugar and berries, and let 
them stand half an hour; then squeeze them through 
cheese cloth. After this has been done, pour the milk 
on the pulp, and squeeze again, until perfectly dry. 
There should be nothing left in the cloth but a ball of 
seeds. Scald the cream, and when cool, add to the fruit 
mixture, and freeze. 

Raspberry Ice Cream. 
Make it the same as strawberry ice cream, adding 
a little lemon juice. 

Orange Ice Cream. 
One quart cream, % pound sugar, juice of 5 oranges, 
rind of 1 orange. Put half of cream in double boiler; 
add sugar, and stir till dissolved; add remainder of 
cream, and, when cool, add juice and rind of oranges. 
Turn into freezer, and freeze. 



Hokey Pokey. 

One can condensed milk, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 
2 quarts milk, 1 tablespoon vanilla. Moisten corn 
starch with a little cold milk, put remainder of milk 
in double boiler, and, when hot, add corn starch; 
cook a few minutes, then add condensed milk, and 
stand aside to cool. When cold, add vanilla and 
freeze. 

Almond Ice Cream. 

One quart cream, y 2 pound sugar, 14 pound shelled 
almonds, 1 tablespoon vanilla, 4 tablespoons sherry. 
Blanch and pound the almonds to a paste, put half the 
«ream and sugar on to boil, and stir till dissolved; add 
remaining cream and almonds and, when cold, add 
vanilla and sherry, and freeze. 

Puddings — Punch. 

Frozen Pudding. 
One pint cream, yolks of 4 eggs; make a syrup of 

1 pound sugar and 1 pint water, put on fire until boil- 
ing, then stir in forty blanched almonds, pounded fine, 

2 ounces each of chopped citron, raisins and currants, 
1 ounce each of candied orange and lemon peel, 1 glass 
brandy. Freeze. 

Fruit Cream. 
Three lemons, 3 oranges, 3 bananas, % can peaches, 

3 cups sugar, 3 cups water. Strain peaches and bananas 
through a sieve, squeeze the oranges and lemons, strain; 
add sugar and water and, when dissolved, freeze. A 
pint of cream may be added before freezing if a very 
rich cream is desired. 

Glace Meringue. 

Soak 4 tablespoons gelatin in 4 tablespoons water, 
pour over it % cup boiling water and beat till smooth, 
then strain into 1 quart cream, add 1 cup sugar and 1 
teaspoon vanilla. Freeze and when frozen take out 
the beater and pack smoothly, being careful to have 
the top level. Set away for 1% hours. When ready to 
use, beat the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff froth and beat 
into this 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, turn cream 
out on an earthen dish and cover every part with the 
meringue, brown in hot oven, and serve immediately. 

Italian Tutti Frutti. 
One pound candied fruits, 3 lemons, 4 oranges, 1 
quart water, 1*4 pounds sugar, 1 gill sherry wine, 1 
tablespoon gelatine. Chop fruit fine and soak it in 
sherry wine; soak gelatine in % pint water, put IY2 
pints water, sugar and chipped yellow rinds of two 
lemons and 1 orange on to boil five minutes; add gela- 
tine. When cold, add juice of lemons and oranges, 
strain and freeze; then stir in the fruit and let it 
stand a half hour before using. 

Orange Souffle. 
One quart cream, yolks of 5 eggs, 1 pound sugar, 
1 pint orange juice, Y 2 box gelatine. Soak gelatine in 
half a cup of cold water 1 hour, then add half a cup of 

110 



boiling water. Beat the yolks, and add the orange 
juice and sugar; then add the gelatine and freeze. 
When frozen remove the dasher, and add the cream, 
which must be whipped some time previously. 

Frozen Plum Pudding. 

One quart milk, yolks of 4 eggs, y 2 pound sugar, 
20 large raisins, 2 ounces citron, 2 dozen almonds, 1 
tablespoon vanilla. Stone raisins, chop citron, blanch 
and pound the almonds. Put milk in double boiler, 
add raisins, and cook 10 minutes; then add beaten 
eggs and sugar, cook 1 minute, and, when cold, add 
other ingredients and freeze. 

Frozen Chocolate Custard. 
Four eggs, 1 pint cream, 1 pint milk, y 2 pound 
sugar, 2 ounces chocolate. Put the milk in a double 
boiler, add grated chocolate. When hot add the eggs 
and sugar, well beaten, and cook 1 minute; add cream 
and 1 teaspoon vanilla; when cool, freeze. 

Frozen Coffee Custard. 

Four eggs, 1 pint milk, % pint cream, y% pound 
sugar, V» pint strong coffee. Scald the milk and add 
the well beaten eggs and sugar, cook 1 minute, then 
add cream and coffee. When cold, freeze. 

Pudding Glace. 
Thicken 1 pint new milk with 2 tablespoons arrow- 
root, boil 3 pints milk, add thickened arrowroot, 3 
eggs and 3 cups sugar; stir in when cold 1 pound each 
chopped figs, raisins and citron. Flavor, freeze. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

Boil and mash through a strainer 1 pint shelled and 
blanched chestnuts. Mix with 1 quart cream, 1 cup 
sugar and freeze. When partly frozen add 1 pint bran- 
died peaches. 

Apricot Pudding. 

One quart cream, yolks of 4 eggs, 1% cups sugar, 
12 apricots or peaches. Scald the cream, add well 
beaten eggs and sugar; when cold, freeze. When nearly 
frozen add the fruit, which should be pared and cut 
into small pieces. Freeze hard. 

Frozen Fruits. 

Frozen Bananas. 

One dozen bananas, 1 pound sugar, 1 pint water, 
1 pint cream, 2 oranges. Boil water and sugar to- 
gether five minutes, strain, and, when cool, add the 
bananas, which should be mashed, and the orange juice. 
Freeze, turning slowly. Whip the cream and add to the 
frozen mixture. 

Frozen Cherries. 

Two quarts cherries, 2 pounds sugar, 1 quart water. 
Mix the sugar and stoned cherries and let them stand 
one hour. Add water and freeze. 

Frozen Strawberries. 
One quart strawberries, juice of 2 lemons, 1 pound 
sugar, 1 quart water. Mix berries, lemon juice and 

112 



sugar, and let it stand 1 hour. Mash the berries thor- 
oughly, then add water and freeze. Freeze raspberries 
the same way. 

Frozen Oranges. 
Six oranges, 1 pint orange juice, 1 pound sugar, 1 
quart water. Peel the oranges and remove every par- 
ticle of skin and the seeds. Boil sugar and water 5 
minutes, throw in the orange pulp, and let it stand till 
cool. Add orange juice and freeze. 

"Water Ices and Sherbets. 

Lemon Water Ice. 
Four lemons, 1 quart water, 1 orange, 1 pound sugar. 
Boil the water and sugar and the rind of the orange 
and lemons, which should be cut in small pieces. Stand 
away to cool. Squeeze the lemon and orange juice 
into the syrup, then strain and freeze. 

Lemon Ice. 
Dissolve 5 cups of sugar in the juice of 12 large 
lemons and 4 oranges; add 3 quarts of water and freeze. 
This will make 1 gallon of ice. 

Currant Water Ice. 
One pint currant juice, 1 pound sugar, 1 pint boiling 
water. Put sugar into the boiling water, add currant 
juice, when cool freeze. 

Pineapple Water Ice. 
One large pineapple, a can will do, % pound sugar, 
1 pint water, juice of 2 lemons. Boil sugar and water 
together for 5 minutes, add grated pineapple and lemon 
juice and when cool, freeze. 

Raspberry Water Ice. 
One pound pulverized sugar, 3 pints raspberry juice 
and juice of 1 lemon. Mix well and freeze. 

Strawberry Ice. 

Crush 2 quarts strawberries with 2 pounds sugar. 

Let stand a while, then squeeze, pressing out all the 

juice; add to this an equal measure of water and 

freeze. When nearly frozen add the whites of 2 eggs. 

Iced Coffee. 
Two-thirds pound sugar, 1 pint water, 1 pint coffee, 
1 quart cream. Boil sugar and water a few minutes 
add coffee and cream; freeze. 

Cider Sherbet. 
One pint orange juice, 1 quart sweet cider, 1 pound 
sugar. Mix the cider, orange juice and sugar till 
thoroughly dissolved. Strain and freeze. 

Ginger Sherbet. 
Four lemons, 1 quart water, 1% pounds sugar, 2 
tablespoons syrup from preserved Canton ginger, 1 tea- 
spoon Jamaica ginger. Put water and sugar on to boil; 
cut lemon peel in small pieces and boil. Allow to cool 
and freeze. 



Pineapple Sherbet. 
One can of fine pineapple and strain out all the 
fibre. Soak % package gelatine in a cup of cold water. 
After soaking for several hours, add 1 quart of water 
and 2 cups or 1 pint of sugar. When partially frozen 
add the well beaten whites of 2 eggs. 

Orange Sherbet. 
A teacup sugar that has boiled 10 miuutes, juice of 
1 orange and 1 lemon, a pint of water, a little coloring. 
When partially frozen add white of 1 well beaten egg. 

Coffee Parfait. 

One quart of stiffly whipped cream, 1 cup strong 
coffee, 1 small cup sugar. Put the coffee and sugar on 
stove and let them come to a boil; cool. Add the 
whipped cream just before freezing. Do not freeze too 
stiff. 

Maple Parfait. 

Beat yolks of 5 eggs till light and add slowly 1 
cup of hot maple syrup. Cook in a double boiler till 
coating is formed on a spoon. When cool add 1 pint ' 
of thick cream whipped stiff. Turn into a mold, cover 
tight and pack in ice 4 hours. 

Milk Sherbet. 
Two quarts milk, whites of 2 eggs, juice of 2 
lemons, 2 teaspoonfuls lemon extract, 1 tablespoonful 
gelatin. Soak gelatin in milk, and pour in double 
boiler; when dissolved, strain, and when cool, add 
juice of lemons and extract and freeze. When partly 
frozen add beaten whites of eggs. 

Grape Sherbet. 

Two pounds Concord grapes, 1 quart water, 1 pound 
sugar, 2 lemons. Mash the grapes thoroughly, and 
strain through a cheese cloth, bag: add water, lemon 
juice and sugar, and freeze. 

Pomegranite Sherbet. 
One dozen blood oranges, 1 quart water, 2 cups 
sugar. Squeeze the oranges in lemon squeezer, add 
sugar and water; when dissolved strain and freeze. 

Grape Fruit Sherbet. 

Six Shaddocks, 3 cups sugar, 1 tablespoonful gela- 
tin, 1 pint water. Soak gelatin in cold water, add 
sugar, and boil five minutes; let it cool, and add pulp 
of fruit. Freeze. 

Fruit Sherbet. 

Two bananas, 2 cups strawberries, 1 pineapple, 3 
lemons, 4 oranges, 3 cups sugar, 1 pint water. Cut 
strawberries, chop pineapple, slice bananas; take pulp 
of oranges and juice of lemons, dissolve sugar in 
water and pour over mixture. Freeze. 

Cafe Perfaet. 
Take a pint of thick cream, a small teacup of 
sugar, i{> cup of strong coffee, and beat to a stiff 
froth; put in a mold and pack as for ice cream, not 
stirring it; it will freeze in three hours; delicious. 



Diets to Increase Weight. 

Usually a thin person has trouble with digestion or 
assimulation. A glass or two of water on arising and 
a cup of hot water sipped slowly before meals will do 
much to correct the poor digestion. Coffee and tea 
should either be dropped entirely or used sparingly 
with only sugar or if cream is used leave out the 
sugar — you cannot expect results if you are a heavy 
tea or coffee drinker and use both sugar and cream 
together. Drink also milk and buttermilk very fre- 
quently. 

Use cereals, cream, butter and starchy foods, fat 
meats, etc., with plenty of liquid, water or milk, dur- 
ing the meal. 



List- 






Soups. 






Cereals with 


plenty 




of milk and sugar. 




Beans. 


Mutton. 


Sweet potatoes 


Peas. 


Fowl. 


Potatoes. 


Beets. 


Bacon. 


Carrots. 


Cabbage. 


Pork. 


Squash. 


Sweet corn. 


Fish. 


Eggs. 


Eice. 


Corn bread. 


Oysters. 


Beef. 


Eye bread. 


Cheese. 



Diet to Decrease Weight. 

An anti-fat diet requires the cutting down or 
eliminating of fats, sugars and starches from the food. 
It requires a careful reduction of the quantity of food 
taken. Food should be eaten very slowly. Always 
use a small portion and always leave the table feeling 
hungry. Bipe fruits, berries without sugar can be 
eaten, but do not use bananas. 

Do not use liquids with meals, but a glass of water 
may be taken an hour afterwards. In extreme cases 
a saline laxative may be taken one hour after meals. 

List — 



Whole wheat bread. 

Graham bread. 

Bran bread. 

One egg at a meal. 

Beef. 

Mutton. 

Fowl. 

Fish. 

Oysters. 



Celery. 

Lettuce. 

Spinach. 

Asparagus. 

Onion. 

Tomatoes. 

Sweet peppers. 

Cucumbers. 



Care of the Sick 

So long as the ideal sick-room has not become com- 
mon in the majority of homes, the problem is what to 
do under the existing conditions. Select the most 
pleasant room and remove all draperies and knick- 
knacks, everything that will retain the dust and germs 
aiid will weary the invalid, or add to the care of the 
attendant. Either keep the medicines in another room 
or else have them on a stand that is out of sight of the 
patient. Keep a record of each dose — it will be a help, 



not a trouble, as may be supposed. Many fatal results 
have occurred from the usual haphazard way of giving 
the medicines. So many mistakes are made that a care- 
ful physician insists upon such a record being kept. 

In spite of the most careful directions mistakes 
sometimes occur, owing many times to the anxiety of 
the attendant. If a trained nurse is required to give 
a record of each dose administered and each passing 
symptom, how much more should the novice in such 
matters be impressed with the importance of accurate 
work. 

If possible the bed should have a hair mattress. In 
warm weather it is much cooler if covered with a can- 
vas sheet, then a thin quilt before the linen sheet is 
put on. A small cot bed may be used while the bed 
receives its daily airing, but if the patient cannot be 
moved let one side of the bed be made well, the clean 
sheets folded down the center, then as the patient is 
lifted to the fresh side the soiled cloths may be re- 
moved, the new sheets drawn smoothly over the other 
side, and the effect is very restful. 

Where no regular system of fresh air exists the win- 
dows may be raised several inches, resting on a board 
made to fit the window, thus forming an indirect draft 
over the top of the sash. An adjoining room may be 
well aired and the doors between the two opened. In 
warm weather a screen may keep the draft from the 
bed if the windows are in such a position that the air 
coming from them will strike the sick bed direct. 

When a sick person begins to count the pictures on 
the wall paper, following the. designs with his finger or 
eye, it will waste the flagging energy as almost nothing 
else will do. It is time to cover the wall with a plain 
cloth or sheet, hanging a favorite picture for a central 
object of vision, to be replaced occasionally with a 
fresh one. 

All visitors should be excluded, and the patient 
guarded as far as possible from loud noises. 

The attendant in the sick room should be neat and 
quiet. Bustling garments, squeaking shoes, rattling 
of the furniture and dishes are an abomination to the 
sick. One of the first things a nurse learns is how to 
be quiet. Soft footsteps, calm and quiet manner and 
low, distinct voices are restful. The sudden clash of 
teaspoons will start the perspiration and wring the 
nerves of an invalid. At the same time he may hesi- 
tate to speak of the annoyance, knowing that to a 
well person it would seem of so little consequence. A 
good nurse will prevent these things, and, without 
being obtrusive, will forestall the wants of the 
patient. 

Having learned from the doctor the required diet, 
prepare the meals very carefully. Much depends upon 
the dainty appearance of the food and all the acces- 
sories. The prettiest tray cloth and the finest china 
should be used to stimulate the jaded appetite. The 



meal should not be brought into the room till the 
patient is ready to eat. During convalescence care 
must be taken as to the diet, because many relapses 
are due the introduction of some new dish. 

For night watching a competent nurse is best and 
is a paying investment, for when the patient is left 
to the care of some incapable person great harm may 
be done that may mean many added weeks of suffering 
and pain to the patient. Nervous excitement is often 
the last weight that snaps the thread of life. For 
this reason the sick should be kept hopeful and serene. 
All foreboding and discouraging conversation should 
be forbidden. At many of the best sanitariums the 
discussion of their ailments by the patients are for- 
bidden, as the very talking of them has a harmful 
effect upon the talker. 

Foods for the Sick. 
Foods for the sick are so important that we sub- 
mit methods for their preparation. The chief in- 
gredient for the invalid's food is milk. The follow- 
ing are methods of preparation that will be found use- 
ful in many instances: 

Sterilized Milk. 

Method — The milk is heated to 212 degrees Fahren- 
heit, the boiling point, and this degree of heat main- 
tained for one and one-half hours. The milk is placed 
in bottles, stopped with a cotton plug, the bottles 
placed in a closed container (Arnold's sterilizer) and 
exposed to steam. 

Changes — -All pathogenic germs are destroyed, but 
other changes take place in the constituent of the milk 
which impairs its nutritive value and its digestibility. 
Properly corked, it will keep for some time. 

Use — Its use is objectionable. It should be lim- 
ited to the necessities of travel, or in hot weather in 
places where ice is not obtainable. 

Pasteurized Milk. 

Method — The milk in bottles is heated to 167 de- 
grees Fahrenheit, and this degree maintained for 
twenty minutes. 

Changes — It destroys most pathogenic germs 
(typhoid, tuberculosis, diphtheria, cholera and the pus- 
forming germs; spores are not destroyed). The di- 
gestibility of the milk does not seem to be impaired. 

Use — In hot weather all milk to be feed to in- 
fants should be pasteurized. It should be diluted the 
same as raw milk. Do not continue its use indefinitely. 
In adults chronic cases when there is feeble digestion. 

Peptonized Milk. 
Method — Take 1 pint of fresh milk, 4 ounces water, 
add bicarbonate soda (baking soda), 15 grains, ex- 
tractum pancreatis 5 grains. Place the bottle in a 
vessel of hot water, 105 to 115 degrees Fahrenheit, 
from 6 to 20 minutes. Shake often. To arrest the 
process of artificial digestion, place the bottle on ice 

122 



or heat to boiling point. If the milk is to be fed at 
once this is not necessary, in order to completely pep- 
tonize the milk continue the process for 2 hours. 

Use — In infants when there is acute indigestion, it 
should be diluted as in the case of ordinary milk. 

Kumyss. 

Method — One quart of fresh milk, water 2 ounces, 
V-2 ounce sugar, yeast cake, compressed, a piece V 2 
inch square. Put in a stout bottle and wire down the 
cork. Keep at a temperature of 60 or 70 degrees 
Fahrenheit for one week; shake the bottle 5 or 6 
times a day. Place on ice. 

Use — In acute and chronic indigestion, in tuber- 
culosis or other wasting disease, in irritable stomach. 

Matzoon. 

Method — This is similar to the Kumyss, but is 
preferable in some respects. It contains more nour- 
ishment than is found in Kumyss, and may be ob- 
tained from the druggist. 

Use— In chronic indigestion in adults. 

Kazol. 

May be bought prepared or tablets may be bought 
and prepared according to directions. There are a 
large number of preparations of this ferment on the 
market under different names. Be sure and get a good 
preparation. 

Junket. 

Method — Take 1 quart lukewarm fresh milk, add 2 
teaspoons of liquid rennet; tablets are also on sale for 
the manufacture of Junket; stir well, season with 
sugar and nutmeg; let stand till coagulation takes 
place. Serve cold. 

Beverages. 

Indications — Fever patients, especially when there 
is delirium or stupor, in which condition they are un- 
able to make their wants known, often suffer from 
the want of water. In all such cases water should be 
offered at frequent intervals. But pure water, if taken 
too freely, is apt to disorder a stomach and the bowels. 
It is found that the addition of certain substanee to 
the water greatly increases its power to quench thirst. 
Acid in particular seems to possess this power. A 
weak infusion of cascarilla or orange peel, acidulated 
slightly with dilute hydrochloric acid, is a favorite 
thirst-allaying drink for fever patients. 

Receipes for Sick. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 
Put 1V-2 pints of the best wine vinegar to 3 
pounds of raspberries, in a porcelain or glass vessel; 
let stand for 2 weeks, then strain without pressure. 
Put into bottles and cork well. 

Apple Water. 
One large juicy apple, 3 cups cold water. Pare and 
quarter the apple. Put in on the fire with the water 

124 



in a closely covered sauce pan and boil till the apple 
stews to pieces. Strain the liquor as soon as it is 
taken from the fire, pressing the apple hard with the 
cloth. Set away to cool. Sweeten to taste with sugar; 
serve ice cold. Very good where there is constipation. 

Lemon Whey. 

Put a quart of new milk into a sauce pan and stir 
over the fire till it is nearly boiling; then add the 
juice of 1 lemon and let it simmer for 15 minutes, 
skimming off the curd as it rises. Add the juice of 
another lemon, skim for a few minutes, strain, and it 
is ready for use. 

Wine Whey. 

One pint fresh milk, 1 wine glass sour wine, 1 tea- 
spoonful sugar. Put the milk into a shallow sauce pan, 
bring it to boiling point and pour in % the wine; stir 
gently, let it simmer and skim off the curd that rises. 
In a few minutes pour in the rest of the wine, skim 
the remaining curd, sweeten and serve when cold. 

Use — In fevers and gastro-enteric affections of 
children and adults. 

Mint Water. 

Boiling water, */> pint; green spearmint leaves (a 
handful). Bruise the leaves, put into a dish, cover 
with boiling water, steep 15 minutes. Drink hot or 
cold. 

Use — Good in nausea. 

Tamarind Water. 

One tablespoon tamarinds, 1 glass ice water, 1 tea- 
spoon sugar. Stir the tamarinds in the water till dis- 
solved; strain, sweeten. 

Use — Good in constipation. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. 

Four tablespoons whole flaxseed, 1 quart boiling 
water, juice of 2 lemons and sugar to sweeten. Put 
the flaxseed in a pitcher, pour on the boiling water, 
cover it, let stand for 3 hours. When cold add the 
lemon juice and sweeten to taste. If too thick thin 
with water. Serve ice cold. 

Use — Good for throat trouble. Very soothing. 

Barley Water. 
Two ounces of pearl barley, wash it well with cold 
water, drain and reject the washing water. To the 
barley add IY2 pints of water; boil for 6 hours in a 
covered vessel, add water as it evaporates. Strain in 
a pitcher and keep in the refrigerator, or a cool place. 
Take out as needed and warm for use. 

Thick Barley Water. 
Wash as above, put it in a sauce pan and pour 
over it 2 quarts of cold water. Boil for two hours. 
Pour in a pitcher with the thin peel of % a lemon. 
Set on ice till cold. When cold remove the lemon 
peel and sweeten to taste. 



Barley Water. 

Wash 2 tablespoons barley and soak it % hour in 
a little lukewarm water, and stir without draining 
into 2 cups of boiling water salted slightly. Simmer 
1 hour, stirring often. Sweeten to taste and strain 
before using. 

Use — As a substitute for milk when the latter dis- 



Egg Lemonade. 

Beat 1 egg to a froth, make a glass of lemonade, 
using the juice of the entire lemon, sweeten to taste, 
stir in the egg and add pounded ice. This is a de- 
licious and a somewhat nutritious drink. 

(Orange, grape or other fruit juices may be sub- 
stituted in place of the lemon if so wished. This will 
give a variety.) 

Hot Lemonade. 

Two tablespoons lemon juice, 1 glass boiling water, 
1 tablespoon sugar. Put into a hot bowl, and stir for 
a few minutes. Drink hot. 

Use — Good to induce perspiration. 

Oatmeal Water. 

Two tablespoons oatmeal, 1 pint cold water. Stir 
the oatmeal into the water and allow to stand 1 hour; 
strain and drink cold. 

Use — In constipation. 

Sago Milk. 
One tablespoon sago, 1 teacup cold water, 1 quart 
fresh milk. Wash the sago and soak it over night; 
put it into a farina kettle, boil till clear, sweeten. 
Drink hot or cold. 

Elm Tea. 
Take nice slippery-elm; bark, break into bits, pour 
boiling water over it and let it stand until cold. Ice 
and sweeten if desired. 

Gum-Arabic Water. 

Two teaspoons of gum-arabic, 1 pint of hot water, 
1 teaspoon sugar, the juice of 1 lemon. Put all in a 
pitcher and keep it on a hot stove until the gum is 
dissolved. Use when cold. 

Use — Very good in throat trouble and coughs. 

Cafe-au-Lait. 
Equal parts of strong fresh coffee and boiling milk. 
Strain the hot coffee through some muslin into the pot 
from which it is to be served. Add the hot milk im- 
mediately, set the pot on the stove for 5 minutes and 
it is ready to serve. 

Coffee and Egg. 
Make a cup of strong coffee, adding boiling milk 
as usual, only sweetening more. Take an egg, beat 
the yolk and white together well. Boil the coffee, 
milk and sugar together and pour it over the beaten 
egg in the cup in which you are going to serve it. 
This remedy is often used in hospital practice. 



Use — A sick person needing nourishment and hav- 
ing lost the appetite, can often be sustained by this 
when nothing else can be taken. 

Egg Water. 

One glassful cold water, whites of 2 eggs, sugar to 
sweeten. Stir the eggs gently into the water, but do 
not beat them, add sugar or a little salt. 

Use — This can be taken by a delicate stomach 
when everything else is rejected. 

Toast Water. 
Cut thin slices of bread and toast them till nicely 
brown. Be sure that there is no suspicion of burning. 
Put several slices in a bowl and pour over them 
enough boiling water to cover. Cover the bowl closely 
and let it steep till cold. When cold, strain, sweeten 
to taste and put a piece of ice into each glassful 
served. Flavor with lemon juice. 

DIET FOR CONVALESCENTS. 
Mutton Chops. 
They should be broiled over a clear fire for 6 or 7 
minutes; turn frequently, and do not prick with a 
fork or knife. Serve hot. Season with salt and pep- 
per after they come from the fire. 

Game. 
Pigeon, quail and snipe are especially acceptable to 
the convalescent, and will tempt the returning ap- 
petite. Broiling is the best mode of cooking. 

Chicken. 

Tender spring chicken will take the place of game 
if it cannot be had. 

Omelette. 

Two eggs, 1 cup buttermilk, one-third teaspoon 
soda, 3 tablespoons flour. Beat up the eggs, stir them 
into the buttermilk with the flour, add the soda, some 
salt and stir all to a creamy consistency. Put 3 table- 
spoons of this batter on a hot buttered griddle. When 
one side is brown fold it on itself, turning y 2 on the 
other. Serve hot and eat with butter. 

Potato Surprise. 

Scoop out the inside of a sound potato, leaving 
the skin attached on one side of the hole, as a lid. 
Mince up finely the lean of a juicy mutton chop sea- 
soned with a little salt and pepper, put it in the 
potatoe, pin down the lid, bake or roast. Before serv- 
ing in the skin add a little hot gravy if the minced 
mutton seems too dry. 

Tomato Soup. 

Peel 6 good sized tomatoes and cut them into small 
pieces; put them into a sauce pan with 1 quart water 
and boil until tender. Season with salt and pepper. 
Now stir into the water y 2 teaspoon baking soda. Lift 
the kettle from the stove while stirring in the soda or 
the soup will run over as it foams. Boil again and 
add 1 pint sweet milk. Bring to boiling point again. 

130 



Put broken crackers into a dish, pour the soup over 
them and serve immediately. 

This is an excellent dish for convalescents, being 
often taken with relish when nothing else tempts the 
appetite. It may be used in all cases except where 
there is a tendency to looseness of the bowels. 

Spanish Cream. 

One quart milk, yolks of 3 eggs, y 2 box gelatin, 2 
tablespoons sugar. Soak the gelatin for an hour in 
the milk, put it on the fire and stir well while it 
warms. Beat the yolks of the egg very light with the 
sugar, add to the scalding milk, and heat to the boil- 
ing point, stirring all the while. Flavor with vanilla 
or lemon. When almost cold put it in a mold wet 
with cold water. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Heat sour milk till the whey rises to the top. Pour 
off the whey, put the curd in a bag and let it drip for 
6 hours without squeezing it. Put in a wooden bowl, 
chop fine with a wooden spoon, salt to taste and work 
to the consistency of soft butter, adding a little cream 
and butter as you proceed. Mold into balls and keep 
in a cold place. It must be eaten while fresh. 

Beef Juice. 
Have a piece of lean beef chopped fine, make into 
form and place on a hot broiler. As soon as the juice 
begins to flow turn and broil the other side. When 
juice flows freely remove the beef from the fire and 
put in a beef press, potato ricer or a strong cloth. 
Press out the juice, put it in a cup and set in boiling 
water. When heated add salt and serve. The albumin 
should not be coagulated. 

Scraped Beef. 
With a sharp knife scrap a piece of raw, lean beef. 
Mix the scrappings with salt and pepper. Spread on 
bread or make a sandwich. 

Cold Douche. 

Lower the patient's head, place a rubber cloth be- 
neath and pour cold water from a pitcher over the 
crown of the head, the pitcher being gradually raised 
higher and higher, so that the water may fall with 
more force. 

Us< — In sunstroke and intense congestion of the 
brain. 

Wet Pack. 

Spread a comfort and several blankets on the bed 
and over these a sheet wrung out of cold water. Ee- 
move all the patient's clothing, lay him in the middle 
of the sheet, draw the edges over and wrap the patient 
in it snugly, then draw over one side after another of 
the blankets and make all snug. Put wet compress on 
the forehead. 

Use — To reduce temperature in typhoid, and to de- 
velop delayed eruptions (rash) in scarlet and other 
specific fevers. 



Blanket Baths. 
A blanket is wrung out of hot water and wrapped 
around the patient. He is then packed in three or 
four dry blankets and allowed to rest quietly for 
thirty minutes. The surface of the body should then 
be well rubbed with warm towels, and the patient 
made comfortable in bed. 

Use — This is a ready means of inducing perspira- 
tion. 

BATHS. 

Temperature of Baths. 

Bath — Water. Vapov. Air 

Cold 33° to 65° F , 

Cool 65° to 75° F 

Temperate 75° to 85° F 

Tepid . . 85° to 92° F. 90° to 100° 96° to 106° 
Warm . . 92° to 98° F. 100° to 115° 106° to 120° 
Hot 98° to 112° F. 115° to 140° 120° to 180° 

Bran Bath. 

Boil 4 pounds of bran in 1 gallon water, strain and 
add liquor to enough water for a bath. 

Use— To allay irritability of the skin, and to soften 
it in dry and cracked conditions. 

Salt Bath. 
Add rock salt in proportion of 1 pound to 4 gallons 
water. 

Use — An invigorating bath, and to lessen suscepti- 
bility to the cold. 

Alcohol Baths. 
An ounce of alcohol to every quart water. To be 
used for same purpose as the salt bath. 

Sulphur Bath. 
Twenty grains of Sulphuret of Potassium to 1 gal- 
lon of water. 

Use — For skin diseases and rheumatism. 

Mustard Bath. 
Add a handful of mustard to the ordinary hot 
bath and a smaller amount to the foot bath. 
Use — When stimulating action is required. 

Disinfectants. 

Formaldehye — Use a 40 per cent, solution. With a 
cloth wet in this solution wipe all the articles in the 
room, floor, walls, furniture, etc. This is to be used 
after contagious diseases for purposes of disinfection. 

Copperas — Take copperas (iron sulphate), 2 pounds 
to 1 bucket of water. Use freely for drenching privy 
vaults, water closets, catch basins, cesspools, etc. 

Zinc-chloride — One pound zinc-chloride to 2 gallons 
water. Use in chamber vessel or bed pan into which 
typhoid or dysentric discharges are received; also for 
general purposes of disinfection. 

Zinc-sulphide — One pound zinc-sulphide, 2 ounces 
of carbolic acid and 4 gallons of water. Keep a tub 
of this solution and in it place all soiled clothing and 
bed clothes from patients with infectious diseases. 

131 



: 



Mercuric-bichloride — One part mercuric-bichloride, 
1,000 parts water. To be used for disinfecting water 
closets, etc. This is a most efficient disinfectant, but 
dangerous because of its highly poisonous character. 
Add some coloring matter, so that it will not be mis- 
taken for water by some one who is not familiar with 
the receptable used to hold the solution. It is far bet- 
ter not to have any unused around. 

Fire. 

Fire is the best disinfectant that there is. When 
possible burn everything that has been in contact 
with the sick suffering from contagious diseases. 

Care of Infants. 

Bathing — For the first six months the baby's bath 
should be given at a temperature of 98° F., and in a 
warm room. Make the bath short and dry the child 
quickly. After six months the temperature of the 
bath for a healthy infant should be 95° F., and this 
should gradually be lowered to 90° F. at the end of 
the year. Older children should be sponged or douched 
with water at 65° or 70° F. after a warm bath. A hot 
bath should be given at night. A cold sponge in the 
morning is a good preparation for the day's activity, 
unless there be a lack of reaction, in which case it 
should not be repeated. 

Clothing — It should be light in weight, warm and 
not irritating. It should be loose and all hung from 
the shoulders. Bands should not be tight and should 
be sewed on, not pinned. Cotton flannel is preferable 
for diapers. 

The feet should be kept warm if you wish a healthy 
baby. In summer do not dress too warm, but follow 
the changes of the weather, adding as the cool of the 
evening comes on. Night clothing should be loose. 
That of older children should be in the form of a 
union suit, and if the child is restless feet should be 
provided. Do not cover too heavily, because it will 
make the ehild very restless and will hinder a re- 
freshing rest. 

Eyes — A new baby should have its eyes bathed 
daily for a week with a saturate solution of boracic 
acid. Avoid exposing the eyes to strong light. If you 
have a nurse for the baby see to it that she under- 
stands the harmful effects of any strong light in the 
baby's eyes. 

Care of the mouth and teeth— Wash the baby's 
mouth with a soft cloth and boiled water. If any 
white spots appear the mouth must be washed after 
every feeding with borax, 20 grains to the ounce of 
water. Be careful never to cause a break in the ten- 
der mucus membrane by using too much force in wash- 
ing. The teeth when they come should receive daily 
attention. 

Skin— Cleanse the skin carefully and keep dry. Use 
a bland dusting powder about the groins, under the 
arms and the folds of the skin in the neck and limbs. 



Training of control of the Bowels and Bladder — A 
great deal can be accomplished in a three-months-old 
baby in training it to use a small chamber at regular 
intervals. This saves a great deal of labor and by 
producing regularity, helps the child. The regularity 
of the bladder is not so important, but if the habits 
of feeding are proper a great deal can be accomplished 
to save time and work for the mother. 

Avoid all exciting plays with the baby. This espe- 
cially should be avoided during the baby's first year. 

Training in regular sleep should start at birth. The 
infant should be taught to go to sleep in a crib with 
no "husher" or other harmful device, a well filled 
stomach, a darkened room, and a dry bib under the 
chin should be a good enough "husher" for any 
healthy child. 

Exercise — This is just as important for babies as 
for children. Good, lusty cries, kicking of the legs 
and hearty flourishing of the arms are the means of 
a growing baby's exercise. Do not allow the infant to 
lie in the crib without changing its position from time 
to time. Pick it up occasionally. As soon as the baby 
is old enough spread a quilt on the floor; be sure that 
the room is warm enough, and allow it to kick and 
squirm around. In older children encourage all forms 
of outdoor games and sports. 

Air — The baby should be taken out at the end of 
the first week and be kept out as much as possible. 
In cold weather the baby should not be taken out of 
doors before it is a month old. Change the air often 
by opening the windows of an adjoining room and the 
opening of the door to the baby's room. This may be 
followed by wrapping the baby up and opening the 
windows of the room. This will accustom the baby to 
cold air, so that it can be taken out of doors. If the 
baby is four months old it should be out of doors 
every day that the thermometer does not go below 
20° F. Accustom the baby to take the day nap out of 
doors. Of course, if this is done care must be taken 
to shield the baby from wind and direct sunlight. 
Avoid high winds and outings on damp days. 

Baby 's room should be the sunniest room in the 
house. It should be provided with easy ventilation 
and should be free from drafts. 

The temperature of the room should be 70° F., but 
rather lower than higher. Keep the windows open at 
night unless the temperature outside is below 40° F. 
After the first year keep the windows open unless the 
temperature is below 20° F. Keep the baby's bed- 
room simple. All children and especially babies should 
sleep alone, if possible. Separate the beds and thus 
prevent the possibility of the spread of any disease. 
The mattreses should be firm and the pillows small. 
Turn the child over several times during the night. 

Infant Feeding. 
Maternal nursing should be used if possible. Let 
your physician decide whether or not the baby should 



be raised artifically. Do not let the matter of your 
own convenience interfere, or be considered for a 
moment. The baby should be weighed weekly and 
there should be a marked increase in weight every 
week. Any dropping off of weight should be cause 
enough to call your physician. Teach the baby to be 
regular in feeding and see that the regularity is ob- 
served if you wish to give the child the best possible 
start in life. One of the essentials is plenty of water, 
which may be given with a bottle. 

In giving formulae for the home modification of 
milk for the baby, it must be understood that the 
formulae are for the average baby of that age, a large 
baby, well devoleped, of four months, will not be sat- 
isfied with the four months formula or quantity. He 
wants and needs more than the average. On the other 
hand, a sickly baby does not require and cannot use 
the formula of the normal baby. Therefore the 
formulae must be changed. For those changes consult 
your physician, because it would be absolutely im- 
possible to diagnose and prescribe for each individual 
case in this book. We can only give the opinions of 
the best authorities for the care of the normal child. 

Artificial Feeding — The food must be made to con- 
tain the same parts as the mother's milk, and those 
parts in the same proportion. Cow's milk must neces- 
sarily be the basis, because it comes nearer to the 
correct and desired proportions. It is, however, neces- 
sary to dilute this. More fats and sugar must also be 
added. The fat is best added by using "top milk." 
This is made as follows: Let the bottle of milk stand 
in a cool place for three hours. The top half of the 
bottle is the "top milk." Either dip off the top milk 
or better syphon off the bottom and leave the top milk 
in the bottle. It will be 6 per cent. fat. 

Sugar — To make a proper dilution of sugar add 1 
ounce of milk sugar to 20 ounces of water, or, for a 
smaller quantity, a level teaspoon to 7% ounces of 
water. This makes a 5 per cent, solution. 

The milk for 24 hours should be prepared at the 
same time, and put into bottles, holding just enough 
for each feeding. These should be kept in a perfectly 
clean ice box. Each bottle must be stopped with a 
plug of cotton. When you heat the milk for feeding 
always add a teaspoon of lime water. 

Formulae — Baby one month and under, total 
amount to be made should be 20 to 30 ounces. The 
proportions should be two-thirds of the above prepara- 
tion of 5 per cent, sugar solution to one-third of the 
top milk. This should be put into ten bottles. 

Baby six weeks to three months— Total quantity, 28 
to 38 ounces. The proportions should be three-fifths 
of the 5 per cent, sugar solution to two-fifths of the 
top milk. Add a teaspoonful of lime water before 
feeding to each bottle. 

Three months to six months — Gradually increase 



the top milk proportion till the proportion is y% top 
milk to % of the 5 per cent, sugar solution. 

Six months and over — Barley water should be used 
with y. 2 of the proportion of sugar solution. Oatmeal 
water may be used in place of the barley water if the 
infant is constipated. 

If there is. no gain in weight and no indigestion, 
lessen the amount of the diluent. If there is vomiting 
immediately after feeding reduce the quantity of food 
given. 

Sugar — Too much sugar causes: Enactions of gas; 
thin green acid stools. Too little sugar may be noted 
by a slow gain in weight. 

Fat — Too much fat causes: Vomiting of a sour 
mass 1 to 2 hours after feeding; fat in the stools. Too 
little fat causes obstinate constipation. 

Proteids — An excess of proteids causes habitual 
colic. 

Barley water — Before the age of six months the 
diluent may be boiled water, after that age barley 
water may be used if the case is not constipated. In 
that case use oatmeal water. 

Condensed Milk — When it is necessary to use con- 
densed milk, as when traveling, get the best and the 
highest priced. For very young infants use 1 part 
condensed milk to 12 parts water. Six-months-old 
babies require 1 part milk to 8 parts water. In each 
case add cream. 

Sterilized milk is not proper food for infants. They 
lose weight on it. 

Peptonized milk may be used as a temporary ex- 
pedient, but its continued use does harm. 

Pasteurized milk is not necessarily harmful. 

Bottle — Keep on hand a dozen. Let them be wide 
mouthed, cylindrical. In cleansing, rinse with cold 
water and then wash with hot water and soap and a 
brush. Before filling with milk boil in water for 20 
minutes. 

Nipples — Use the simple, plain black rubber nipple. 
Cleanse thoroughly and keep in a solution of boric 
acid. Never use a nipple with a rubber tube. 

In General — Bear in mind that what agrees with 
one child will not agree with all. No rule is arbitrary. 
Do not be afraid to go outside of the beaten track. 
The one criterion and object is to gain weight on the 
part of the infant. 



Eules — The intervals for feeding and the amount 
at different ages are here given. Adherence to this 
will prevent overfeeding. 

Number Average 





Intervals 


of amount 


Average 




of 


feedings in at each 


in 


Age— 


feeding. 


24 hours, feeding. 


24 hours. 


1st week . . . 


2 hours 


10 1 oz 


10 oz 


1 to 6 weeks. 


.2 x /-2 hours 


8 1% to 2 oz 


12 to 16 oz 


6 weeks to 








6 months. 


3 hours 


6 3 to 4 oz 


18 to 24 oz 


6 months . . . 


3 hours 


6 6 oz 


36 oz 


10 months . . 


3 hours 


5 8oz 


40 oz 



Fractures (Breaks). 
Move the bone as little as possible till it has been 
properly set, because constant and painful irritation 
will cause the injured member to swell so that it will 
be practically impossible to set the broken bone cor- 
rectly and not without causing a great deal of un- 
necessary pain. If it is necessary to move the patient, 
lift each side of the fracture carefully and bandage 
if necessary. Clothing and shoes, if the leg is broken, 
should be removed with as little disturbance possible. 

Burns. 
Apply vaselin, butter or any convenient salves or 
oils at once, anything that will keep the air from the 
injured part, not clothing. Equal parts of lime water 
and olive or linseed oil, a paste of baking soda and 
water, whatever it is should be bound on and the part 
thoroughly covered. 

Drowning. 
Open clothing over the neck and chest. Turn on 
face and elevate the body so that the water will run 
from the lungs. Apply artificial respiration (breath- 
ing) by laying the body on the back with the head 
lower than the feet and copress the body over the 
edge of the ribs every three seconds. Eub the rest 
of the body and apply heat while the artificial respira- 
tion is being carried on. Get a pulmotor if possible. 

Gas Poisoning. 

Remove to the air and use artificial respiration as 
above. If possible as soon as respiration is started, 
even if very feeble, get oxygen gas and use it along 
with the artificial respiration. A pulmotor will save 
many cases otherwise hopeless. 

A telephone call to the nearest police station, and 
a statement of the case will bring the pulmotor to the 
patient immediately. 

Sun Stroke or Heat Stroke. 
Apply cold baths, cold sponge or cold douche, see 
the section of baths. Do not use stimulants, because 
the alcohol contained by them has a tendency to heat 
the body that is suffering from that very thing. Give 
the patient all the air possible. 

144 



Poisoning. 
In all cases of poisoning send immediately for a 
physician, then give an emetic and antidote. 

Emetics. 
Mustard, a tablespoonful in a glass of warm water. 
Salt, 2 tablespoonfuls in a glass of tepid water. 

Antidotes. 

In case of poisoning with arsenic, paris green, 
sugar of lead, the different salts of zinc, copper, mer- 
cury, digitalis, strychnine and morphine, the following 
general antidote should be given freely. Do not use 
the general antidote for carbolic acid poisoning. 

General Antidote — Keep one bottle containing 2*£ 
ounces saturate soution sulphate of iron, 1 containing 
2 ounces of calcined magnesia, 1 ounce animal char- 
coal and 2 ounces of water. When required for use 
pour together and shake. Give frequently a wine glass 
full at a time. 

Unknown Poisons — Give mustard water or salt so- 
lution and provoke repeated vomiting. Give the gen- 
eral antidote as above. 

Arsenic Poisoning (paris green, Scheeles green, ar- 
senate of lead) — Give the general antidote as above, 
then emetic of mustard water; after repeated vomiting 
2 tablespoons castor oil. 

Opium, Laudanum and Chloral Poisoning — Pro- 
voke repeated vomiting by giving mustard water or 
salt solution. Give strong coffee. Arouse by whip- 
ping, etc., but do not walk the patient. In case of the 
above poisons and morphine, heroine or codeine, with 
the exception of chloral, the surest antidote if given 
soon after the poisoning is permanganate of potash. 
Crush a crystal the size of a pea in a glass, fill with 
water and give to the patient. 

Strychnine Poisoning — Provoke vomiting twice. 
Give the general antidote, then 2 tablespoons castor 
oil. Keep the patient absolutely quiet. 

Carbolic Acid Poisoning— Give 2 teaspoons of pure 
grain alcohol; do not give wood alcohol. If alcohol 
is not at hand use a glass of whiskey or a tablespoon 
of vinegar, then raw eggs. 

Acid Poison — Sulphuric, nitric, muratic, oxalic. 
Give an alkali, baking soda or plaster from the wall, 
the raw eggs. 

Alkali Poisons — Ammonia, caustic soda, potash, 
lye. Give an acid such as vinegar or lemon juice. 
Provoke vomiting with mustard water and then raw 
eggs. 

Alcohol Poisoning — Mustard water to provoke re- 
peated vomiting. 

Decayed meat, vegetables, bad ice cream, etc., 
"ptomaine poisons." Provoke vomiting with mustard 
water or salt solution. Give crystal of permanganate 
potash size of a pea, crush in a glass and add water. 
Oive. 

146 



Menus for Two People at $5 Per "Week 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 
Half a grape fruit apiece. 
Scrambled eggs on toast. 
Eolls. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Cream of tomato soup. 

Eoast leg of lamb. 

Eiced potatoes. 

Mashed turnips. 

Lettuce and cream cheese salad. 

Steamed fruit dumpling. 

Coffee. 

Tea. 

Lettuce sandwiches. 
Waffers, jam and tea. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. 
Apples. 
Fried sausage. 

Browned potatoes. 
Toast. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 
Baked macaroni and cheese. 
Corn cake. 
Tea. 

Dinner. 

Consomme. 

Creamed salt codfish. 

Baked potatoes. 

Escalloped beets. 

Apple pie, cheese, coffee. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. 
Stewed prunes. 
Fried mush. 
Bacon. 
Eolls. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 
Creamed chipped beef. 
Baked potatoes. 
Stewed fruit. 
Tea. 

Dinner. 

Potato soup. 

Cold roast lamb. 

Cream potatoes. 

Stuffed tomatoes. 

Suet pudding with hard sauce. 

Coffee. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 
Half an orange apiece. 
Shredded wheat. 
Wheat cakes. 
Coffee. 



Luncheon. 



Dinner. 



Curry of rice. 
Baked apples. 
Muffins. 
Milk. 

Pea soup. 
Boiled steak. 
Stuffed potatoes. 
Boiled onions. 
Cucumber pickles. 
Baked pears. 
Waffers. Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. 
Grapes. 
Cream wheat. 
Ham. 

Baked potatoes. 
Coffee. 

Luncheon. 
Cream tomato soup. 
Toasted muffins. 
Cocoa. 

Dinner. 
Corned beef. 
Plain boiled potatoes. 
Cabbage. 
Horse radish. 
Baked apples and whipped cream. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. 
Bananas. 
Oatmeal. 

Poached eggs on toast. 
Coffee. 



Fried oysters. 
Cabbage salad. 
Pop-overs. 
Coffee. 

Vegetable soup. 
Baked fish. 
Mashed potatoes. 
Lettuce salad. 
Apple tapioca. 
Coffee. 



Luncheon. 



Dinner. 



f 



SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. 
Sliced pineapple. 
Pork chops. 
Brown potatoes. 
Muffins. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Cream toast. 
Sliced fruit. 
Cookies. Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Baked beans. 

Chili sauce. 

Steamed brown bread. 

Pumpkin pie. 

Coffee. 






II 




r.. 



o o x 






























+. 




































b\ %,^ :V{%>\ 

























LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 480 406 5 



