inM 



A HANDBOOK OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 

ETTA PROCTOR FLAGG 



Albert R. Mann Library 
Cornell University 




CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 



924 097 737 641 




The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924097737641 



A HANDBOOK 



OF 



HOME ECOKOMICS 



A HANDBOOK 



OF 



HOME ECONOMICS 



BY 

ETTA PROCTOR FLAGG 

SUPERVISOR or DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN THE 
LOS ANGELES PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

1912 



Copyright, 191S, 
By Little, Bbown, and Company. 



All rights reserved 
Published, January, 1912 



IJtlntcrs 
S. J. Paekhill &, Co., Boston, U.S,A. 



PREFACE 

The plan in this little book has been to give a simple 
basis for the pupil to work from, leaving the teacher 
free to present the lesson in her own way. The princi- 
pal points to be brought out are suggested by the 
questions at the end of each lesson. These questions 
are to be answered by the pupil in the spare moments 
which are so often wasted in the course of an ordinary 
cookery period. 

This course may be completed in one school year, 
or in two, according to the frequency of the lessons. 
The book is divided into two parts for the convenience 
of classes which devote two years to the subject. 



PART I 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME 
ECONOMICS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOUSEKEEPING 

Let each pupil provide herself with two large, plain, 
white aprons made from cambric, long cloth, or linen; 
avoid lawn because it wears so short a time and rumples 
so easily. In addition to the aprons, every girl should 
have her own small hand-towel and cookery holder; the 
towel need not be more than eighteen inches long, and 
the holder should not be over five inches square. 

When working in the cookery room, keep the wrists 
free from bracelets and the fingers free from rings; let 
the hair be neat and away from the face. 

Before beginning the lesson see that the hands are 
thoroughly washed and the nails well cleaned. Keep 
the hand-towel fastened at the waist, ready for imme- 
diate use. 

When the lesson is over, fold both apron and towel 
neatly and place in the locker assigned. Before leav- 
ing the class-room be siu-e that all utensils are in perfect 
order and, if possible, that yoiu- notes are all placed in 
yoiu- text-book. 



4 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Dish-Washing 

Clean all plates and dishes; if they are greasy, use 
brown paper; if not, scrape with a rubber scraper or 
with a case-knife. 

Arrange neatly and in the most convenient manner. 
Use hot, soapy water, filling the dishpan about one- 
third full. Change the water frequently if many dishes 
are to be washed. Rinse all dishes with clear, hot 
water and wipe with clean towels free from lint. 

Wash glassware first. If an extra polish is desired, 
wipe from the soapy water. 

After the glassware, wash the silver, then the china, 
and then the cooking utensils. 

Take fresh, hot water and wash the towels thor- 
oughly, rinse in clear water, stretch carefully and hang 
to dry; fold the dishcloth evenly and hang to dry. 

Be very careful to keep bone, ivory, or wooden handles 
of knives or forks out of the water, and make sure, 
when washing a Dover egg-beater, that only the part 
below the wheel touches the water. 

If a saucepan has become burned place a few tea- 
spoons of baking soda in the pan, fill with warm water 
and let it stand for several hours or over night. 

Abbreviations 

tbsp. stands for tablespoon, qt. stands for quart, 
tsp. stands for teaspoon. pt. stands for pint, 

c. stands for cup. lb. stands for pound. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 5 

m. stands for minute. oz. stands for ounce. 

h. stands for hour. spk. stands for speck. 

Table of Equivalents 

3 tsp. equal 1 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. equal M c- or J^ gill. 
2 gills equal 1 c. 

2 0. equal 1 pt. 

2 pts. equal 1 qt. 

4 qts. equal 1 gal. 

4 c. flour equal 1 lb. 

2 c. solid butter equal 1 lb. 

2 c. granulated sugar equal 1 lb. 

3 c. meal equal 1 lb. 

2 c. solid meat equal 1 lb. 
2 tbsp. butter equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. sugar equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. flour equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. liquid equal 1 oz. 

Measurements 

Flour, soda, meal, powdered, or confectioners' sugar 
should be sifted before measuring. 

A cup means a cup fllled level with the top. 

A spoonful means a level spoonful. 

To get this level spoonful, use the back of a case- 
knife, drawing it smoothly across the spoon. 

One half spoonful means a spoonful divided length- 
wise. 



6 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

One fourth spoonful means a spoonful divided length- 
wise and then crosswise. 

A salt spoon means one-fourth of a teaspoon. 

When measuring dry material by the cup, fill lightly 
with a spoon without shaking it down. 

FIRE-BUILDING 
To Build a Wood Fire 

Remove ashes and open drafts. 

Blacken, beginning at the back. 

Place thin layer of crumpled paper on bottom of 
fire box. 

Arrange a loose layer of light wood over the paper. 

Place hard wood over this hghtly. 

Polish while stove is heating. 

When fire is burning well, close oven-damper and 
check the drafts. 

To Build a Coal Fire 

Build like a wood fire, adding coal gradually uhtil 
the fire box is three-foiu-ths full. 

To Light a Gas Range 

Turn the gas on freely before lighting. 

Keep the blaze free from yellow flame and as low 
as is allowable with the heat required. 

In lighting the oven be sure that there is no free gas 
to cause an explosion. (Usually it is wiser to open the 
oven door before lighting.) 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 7 

SETTING THE TABLE 

Dust the table. Put on the silence-cloth, which 
must be perfectly smooth. 

Place tablecloth over this, center of cloth over center 
of table. Use clean linen of as fine a quality as can 
be afforded. Have the cloth long enough and wide 
enough to hang well around the table. 

Decorate by placing in the center of the table a vase 
of flowers, a fern, or a dish of fruit. 

Place plates, right side up, one at each end; then at 
the sides. Have plenty of space between each plate, 
and plates opposite one another if possible. 

Place knife on right side of plate with sharp 
edge of knife toward plate, one inch from edge of 
table. 

Place forks on left side with prongs turned up, one 
inch from edge of table. 

Place teaspoons at right of knife, bowls of spoons 
turned up. 

Place tumbler, top up, at end of knife. 

Place butter, or bread and butter plate, in front of 
plate toward the left. 

Place napkins, neatly folded, at the left of fork. 

WATER 

Place }/2 c. water in saucepan and heat slowly. What 
rises at first? 
What collects on the bottom and sides of pan? 



8 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

When is the water simmering? How can you tell, 
and what is the temperature? 

Give the temperature of boiling water. 
How do you know when it is boiling? 
What is "hard" water? 
What is "soft" water? 



TEA AND COFFEE 

Keep tea and coffee in closely covered jars or cans. 

Use enamel or nickel coffee-pots. 

Use enamel, nickel, or earthenware teapots. 

Use only freshly boiled water in making tea and 
coffee, and scald the teapot or coffee-pot thoroughly 
before using. 

Tea 

1 tsp. tea. 

1 c. boiling water. 

Put the tea in a scalded teapot and pour the boiling 
water over it. 

Steep 5 m. in a warm place. Strain, and serve either 
hot or iced. 

Boiled Coffee 

4 tbsp. coffee, ground. 
IJ^ c. boiling water. 
4 egg shells, broken fine. 
J^ c. cold water. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 9 

Mix coffee, shells, and half of the cold water. Add 
boiling water, boil three minutes and add remaining 
cold water. Let stand 10 minutes, pour out a little to 
clear the spout, and serve. 

Filtered Coffee 

J^ c. coffee, powdered. 
3 c. boiling water. 

Use a coffee-pot with an inside strainer. Place the 
powdered coffee in the strainer and add the boiling 
water gradually. Keep the coffee-pot covered while 
the water is filtering. Serve at once, without cooHng. 



Where is tea found? 

What part of the tea plant is used? 

How is tea prepared for market? 

Name fom- different varieties of tea, with prices for 
each. 

Why use freshly boiled water in making tea? 

Why not boil the tea? 

When would you drink tea? 

Where does coffee grow? 

Why are tea and coffee injurious? 

In what form is coffee least injurious? 

Name the two best varieties of coffee, with price per 
poimd. 



10 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

FOOD 

The food which we eat may be divided into three 
distinct classes: proteins, carbohydrates, fats. These 
will be studied in detail as we advance in the work. 
Try to remember now that protein foods are the chief 
sources of tissue and muscle, and that the carbohydrates 
and fats give us energy and fat. 

MILK 

The first food that children take is milk, and for the 
young child this seems an almost perfect food. Since 
all young children must live on it, it is necessary for 
us to know how to tell good milk and how to care for 
it. It is very difiicult to get fresh, pure milk in the 
large cities, and nothing that comes into the house 
requires more care. 

Care of Milk 

Select the best dairy you can find. Wipe milk bottles 
when brought into the house. Place in -refrigerator or 
cold closet,. If turned from bottles, place in glass, ag'ate- 
ware, earthenware, granite, or aluminmn, and keep 
covered. If doubtful about the purity, scald. To 
scald the milk, heat over hot water; when a bead-like 
ring forms around the edge, it is scalded. Remove 
directly. Greater heat makes the milk less digestible. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 11 

Composition of Milk 

Water, about 87%. 

Mineral matter. 

_ . f casein, 
rrotein „ 

[ albumen. 

Fat. 

Carbohydrate. Sugar. 



What is the scum that rises to the siu-face of milk 
when it is scalded? 
What is pasteurized milk? 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 

Chocolate 

IJ^ to 2 squares of Baker's chocolate. 
4 tbsp. sugar. 
1 c. boiling water. 
3 c. scalded milk. 
Spk. salt. 

1. Melt the chocolate over hot water, add sugar and 
salt, and pour the boiling water over the mixture, 
stirring constantly. 

2. Place directly over the fire and cook 5 m. 

3. Add to the hot milk. 

4. Beat 1 m. with Dover egg-beater and serve. For 
special occasions 1 tsp. vanilla may be added, and 
whipped cream may be served with the chocolate. 



12 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Cocoa 

2 tbsp. cocoa. 2 c. boiling water. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. scalded milk. 

1 spk. salt. 

(A larger proportion of milk may be used.) 

1. Mix cocoa, sugar, and salt with the water, and 
boil 5 m. 

2. Stir this into the hot milk and serve. 



From what are chocolate and cocoa obtained? 
What is the difference between the two? 
Which is the more easily digested? Why? 
Name the most nourishing part in a cup of cocoa. 
Reduce the chocolate recipe to 1 c. 
Reduce the cocoa recipe to 1 c. 
How can you prevent the thick scum from rising to 
the surface of a cup of chocolate or cocoa? 



Apple Sauce 
6 or 8 apples. }4 c sugar. 

1. Pare, core, and cut the apples into small pieces. 

2. Cook the apples with enough water to keep them 
from burning. When soft, add the sugar and remove 
from the fire. 

3. Cinnamon or nutmeg to suit taste may be added 
for variety. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 13 

Baked Apples 

Wash and core apples. Place in baking-dish, fill 
center with sugar, and cover the bottom of the baking- 
dish with hot water. Bake until soft. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 0. cranberries. 

1 c. boiling water. 

2 c. sugar. 

1. Look over cranberries and wash them. Cook 
cranberries and water 20 m. 

2. Press through a strainer. Add the sugar and 
cook 5 m. 

3. Pour into cold, wet molds, or glasses. 



Name the two classes of fruits. 

Give the general composition. 

What is the chief food value? 

What fruits are included under the name citrus? 

What gives them this name? 

Name two varieties of good cooking apples. 

Give the average cost per pound. 

How many average-sized apples make a pound? 

Where do most of the cranberries come from? 

When are they at their best? 

What is the average cost per pound? 



14 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

What fruits are more wholesome cooked than un. 
cooked? 

What fruits may be exposed safely on the public 
streets? 
Why? 

DRIED FRUITS 
Prunes 

Wash thoroughly, soak over' night, and cook slowly 
until the skins are tender. When nearly done, sweeten 
slightly. Stick cinnamon, or a little juice and rind of 
lemon, may be used to vary the flavor. 

Peaches 

Wash the dried peaches carefully, cover with water 
and let stand over night. In the morning cook slowly 
until tender; then add a very small amount of sugar. 

Apricots 

Treat in the same way as the others, but add more 
sugar. Prunes and apricots may be mixed together, 
half and half, and treated as either one would be treated 
separately. 



What is the difference in composition between the 
fresh and dried fruits? 
How is this lack supplied? 
Why is the long cooking desirable? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 15 

Name three dried fruits rich in sugar. What per 
cent of sugar do they contain? 

How are fruits dried? 

What do we need to be very careful about in their 
preparation? 

At what season of the year would you use dried fruits 
freely? 



Nut Brittle 

1 c. sugar. 
5^ to 1 c. nuts, shelled and broken in pieces. 

1. Put sugar in saucepan to heat, and when it begins 
to melt on the bottom of the saucepan stir it until it 
becomes a thin, light brown syrup with no lumps. 
(Keep the sugar stirred down from the sides of the pan.) 

2. Add nuts immediately and pour quickly on a 
buttered plate or platter; mark in squares as soon as 
the knife does not stick to the candy. (A tin plate need 
not be buttered.) When cold, break in pieces. 

Fudge 

2 c. sugar. 2 tbsp. butter. 

J/^ to 1 c. milk. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 to 13^ sq. unsweetened chocolate, or 4 tbsp. cocoa. 

1. Heat milk and sugar and, when sugar is dissolved, 
add the chocolate. Boil until it reaches the soft-ball 
stage, stirring until chocolate is melted. 



16 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

2. Remove from fire, add the butter and vanilla, 
and beat until creamy and thickened. Pour quickly 
into a greased tin. When firm, cut in squares. 

Syrup 

2 c. sugar. ^/g c. water. 

Place in saucepan and stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Boil slowly, without stirring, until a light syrup is 
made. Remove and cool. Color with caramel and 
flavor with lemon, if desired. 



What is the price of confectioners' sugar? 

How many cups of granulated sugar make a pound? 

How many cups of confectioners' sugar make a pound? 

How do you caramelize sugar? 

Estimate the cost of the nut brittle and give it in 
itemized form. 

Estimate the cost of the fudge in the same way. 

To what class of foods does sugar belong? 

What does it do in the body? 

Why should we not eat large quantities of sugar in 
any form? 

Where is beet sugar made? 

In what section do we find maple sugar? 

How is maple sugar made? 

What is the price of granulated sugar? 

What does cane sugar come from, and how is it made? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 17 

HOUSEKEEPING 
Care of Refrigerator 

Look over the refrigerator daily to see that no food 
is left to spoil. Food with a strong flavor, or hot food, 
should not be put into the refrigerator. 

Once a week every part of the refrigerator should be 
washed with a solution of washing-soda, a dish mop 
being used. Rinse, wipe as dry as possible, and air 
thoroughly before using again. Flush the waste-pipe 
with the soda solution. 

Care of the Sink 

Always pour dishwater through a sink strainer, and 
put the refuse left in strainer in garbage pail. 

When dish-washing is finished, wash every part of 
the sink and sink strainer with hot, soapy water. Wash 
above and around the sink, and use a scrubbing brush 
and a skewer when necessary. 

Flush the sink with boiling water every day, and 
about once a week with a strong, hot solution of washing- 
soda. (Cover 1 c. washing-soda with 6 qts. boiling 
water and let remain on the fire until all the soda is 
dissolved. Pour this, boiling hot, into the pipes, using 
2 to 3 qts. for each sink.) 

Garbage 

Garbage should be burned, or should be put into 
large pails to be collected several times a week. These 



18 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

garbage pails should be cleaned thoroughly with the 
hose, after emptying, and dried well in the sun. When 
necessary, a strong, hot solution of washing-soda should 
be used to clean them. 

Scraps in the kitchen should be put into a granite- 
ware pail. This scrap pail should be emptied into the 
garbage pail every day. It should be washed as any 
other dish and thoroughly dried. Once a week it should 
be washed with the soda solution. 

Care of the Range 

When grease or other material is spilled on the range 
while cooking is being done, rub off at once with paper. 

Beside cleaning out the ashes from the range every 
day, the space above and below the oven should be 
cleaned out about once a month, as the soot and ashes 
collected there prevent the proper heating of the oven. 

Never blacken the range without cleaning it first. 
Moisten some stove poHsh with cold water and rub it 
over the range with a brush or cloth. Blacken when 
stove is cold. 

Use a dry brush for pohshing, rubbing very brisklysk 
Begin at front of range when the stove is warm. 

To Clean Metals 

Always wash articles carefully before cleaning. After 
cleaning, wash in hot water containing ammonia, and 
dry carefully. The following cleansing agents may be 
used: 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 19 

Tin. — Sapolio or silver-polish; whiting, moistened 
with ammonia, alcohol, or water. 

Steel Knives. — Brick or Sapolio. 

Silver. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with 
ammonia, alcohol, or water. 

Gold. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with am- 
monia, alcohol, or water. 

Copper. — Vinegar and salt, then ammonia. 

Brass. — Vinegar and salt, then ammonia. 

Zinc. — Whiting moistened with vinegar, or powdered 
pumice. 

Iron. — Rub with oil, then scour with ashes orpumice- 
stone. 

Nickel. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with 
ammonia, alcohol, or water. 



What is the difference between an ice-box and 
refrigerator? 
Which requires the more ice? 
Why? 

How may you keep the ice from melting rapidly? 
Why should you frequently flush the sink-pipes? 
How should you care for a gas range? 
Name a standard silver-polish. 
Which is the cheapest silver-polish? 



20 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Experiments 

Mix 1 tsp. cornstarch with 34 c. cold water. State 
result. 

Mix 1 tsp. cornstarch with 34 c. boiUng water. State 
result. 

Mix 2 tsp. cornstarch with 3^ c. cold water, and stir 
into 34 c. boiling water. State result. 

Taste this mixture; then boil 15 m. and taste again. 
What difference do you notice? 

Mix 2 tsp. cornstarch with 4 tsp. sugar, and stir 
into }/s c. boiling water. State result. 

Cream 1 tsp. flour with 1 tsp. butter, and stir into 
}/8 c. boiling water. State result. 



Cornstarch Pudding 

1 pt. milk. 1 sq. chocolate. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 1 spk. salt. 

4 tbsp. cornstarch. 34 c. sugar. 

1. Fill mold with cold water. 

2. Scald milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, 
sugar, and enough cold milk to make a smooth paste. 

3. Pour the hot milk over this, stir, return to the 
double boiler and cook 30 m., stirring all the time 
until thick, and occasionally afterwards. 

4. Remove from the fire, add flavoring, and pour 
into the mold. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 21 

5. Chocolate may be melted over hot water and added 
when the cornstarch begins to thicken. 
Serve cold, with sugar and cream, or milk. 

Pineapple Cream 

2 c. milk. 

3 tbsp. cornstarch. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 
Spk. salt. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 

4 tbsp. grated pineapple. 

Cook as for cornstarch pudding; remove from fire 
and fold in lightly the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, 
and the grated pineapple. . Serve cold with cream. 



To what class of foods does cornstarch belong? 
What is its special use in the body? 

CEREALS 

The most important cereal food products are those 
prepared from wheat, corn, rice, and oats. 

Composition 

"Cereals contain all the food principles; they aver- 
age about two-thirds carbohydrates, one-tenth protein, 
one-tenth water, and they contain a httle fat and min- 
eral matter." 



22 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Their chief value, however, lies in their starch com- 
position, and because of this they require thorough 
cooking. 



Rules for Cooking 

Allow 3^ tsp. salt to 1 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. rolled cereal to 2 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. coarse cereal to 3 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. fine cereal to 4 c. boiling water. 

Add salt to water and stir in cereal with a fork. Cook 
directly over the fire for five minutes, stirring constantly, 
then place in double boiler or fireless cooker. 

Cook the coarse grains 7 or 8 h. 

Cook the rolled grains in double boiler 45 or 60 m. 

Cook the fine grains in double boiler 30 or 45 m. 



Gruels 

In many cases of sickness the patient is unable to 
take any soHd food, and a gruel is prescribed by the 
physician. This is nothing but a cereal cooked with a 
much larger proportion of water; usually we use one 
tablespoonful of the cereal to one cup of water or milk, 
and cook very thoroughly. The gruel is then strained, 
seasoned with salt, and served very hot. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 25 

Indian Meal Gruel 

4 tbsp. yellow corn meal. 4 c. boiling water. 

Blend meal with a little cold water and stir into boil- 
ing water. Boil gently 2 hrs. Salt to taste. Sweeten if 
necessary, and add milk if desired. Strain, and serve 
hot. 

Flour Gruel 

1 c. milk. Spk. salt. 

1 tbsp. flour. 1 doz. raisins. 

Stone and quarter raisins, then add water to cover 
them; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. 
Add to gruel just before serving. 

Gruel : Mix the flour with a little cold milk and stir 
into scalded milk. Cook in a double boiler 3^ h., first 
boiling well over the fire. Add salt and raisins; strain 
and serve. 

Note. — Do not use the raisins if the patient has 
bowel trouble. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

2 tbsp. rolled oats. 
1 c. boiling water. 
34 tsp. salt. 

Boil 3^ h. or longer, strain, thin with hot milk, and 
serve. 



24 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Barley Gruel 

1 tbsp. barley flour. 
1 c. water. 
3^ tsp. salt. 

Mix flour with a little cold water, stir into boiling 
water, boil 30 m., thin with hot milk, strain, and serve. 



Why serve cereals stiff enough to chew? 

What fruits are most satisfactory to serve with them? 

Why not acid fruits? 

Why cook at first directly over the fire? 

Which cereals are the more difficult to digest? 

What is the advantage in buying cereals by the pack- 
age? What is the disadvantage? 

Name those that may be bought in bulk, and give 
the difference in price per pound. 

RICE 

Rice contains more starch and less fat than any 
other grain. It is a good food for people in tropical 
countries and is very easily digested. It should be 
combined with eggs, milk, or meat. 

Boiled Rice 

3 qts. boiling water. 
1 c. well washed rice. 
1 tbsp. salt. 



A HANDBOOK OP HOME ECONOMICS 25 

To wash rice well, put into a strainer and set in a 
deep dish of cold water. Rub the rice, and lift the 
strainer in and out of the water, changing the water 
until it is clear. 

Drain, drop the rice into the boiling water slowly, 
and lift up grains of rice from bottom of pan with a 
fork until the water is boiling rapidly again. Cook 20 
m. to J^ h., or until soft, and add the salt when nearly 
done. 

' Drain in the strainer and dry in an open oven, or 
leave in stewpan, cover with napkin, and set back on 
stove to steam and become dry. 

Save water in which the rice is boiled and use for 
soup, gravy, or rice pudding. 

Molded Rice 

1 c. well washed rice. 

2 c. hot milk. 

1 c. boiling water. 
1 tsp. salt. 

Scald milk in a double boiler, add rice, boiling water 
and salt, cover and let cook 45 m., or until kernels are 
soft. When cooked, uncover, that the steam may 
escape. (More water and less milk may be used.) 

Place a layer of rice in cup. 

Add layer of prepared dates, another layer of rice. 
Press firmly together. Turn from cups and serve with 
sugar and cream or milk. 



26 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Where does rice grow freely? 

To what class of foods does it belong? 

What vegetables may we substitute for it? 

How does it differ from the potato in composition? 

If used as a cereal, what proportions of water to rice 
would be necessary? 

Name three different ways in which it may be 
served. 

What is the average price per pound? 

Estimate cost of the molded rice recipe. 



VEGETABLES 

Select vegetables carefully. Wash or scrub thor- 
oughly, and if wilted, soak well before using. Choose 
those of medium size rather than large; buy when in 
season and use freely. 



Preparation 

Asparagus. — Wash, cut in inch pieces, or leave 
whole. 

Beans, shell. — Shell and wash. 

Beans, string. — Remove ends and string; cut in 
inch pieces. 

Beets. — Scrub well, but do not cut. 

Brussels sprouts. — Remove outside leaves and 
stand in salted water 20 m. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 27 

Cabbage. — Remove outside leaves; cut in large 
pieces; remove core; wash twice, and drain. 

Catdiflower. — Wash; remove outside leaves; stand 
upside down in salted water 20 m. 

Carrots. — Wash and scrape off the thin skin. 

Corn. — Husk; remove silk and wash. 

Onions. — Peel and wash. 

Parsnips. — Wash and scrub. 

Peas. — Shell and wash. 

Potatoes. — Wash and pare; make a thin paring. 

Summer squash. — Wash, and cut in small pieces. 

Spinach. — Remove tough stems and wilted leaves. 
Wash in five waters. 

Turnips. — Wash and pare; make a thin paring. 



Boiled Potatoes 

Select potatoes of medium size. Wash thoroughly, 
using a vegetable brush, and pare as thinly as possible, 
leaving them in cold water until ready to cook. 

Cook in boiling, salted water, covered, until a fork 
pierces them easily (from 20 to 25 m.). Allow 1 tbsp. 
salt to 7 potatoes. The boiling water should cover the 
potatoes. 

When done, drain off the water and shake the pan 
until the potatoes are dry and mealy. 

Set on back of stove to keep warm, covered with a 
folded napkin or clean towel. Serve uncovered. 



28 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Mashed Potatoes 

1 pt. mashed potatoes. 

3 tbsp. hot milk or more. 

2 tbsp. butter. 
V2 tsp. salt. 

1 spk. pepper. 

Cook potatoes as directed above and, when dry, 
mash at once in the pan in which they were cooked. 

Add milk, butter, and seasonings, and beat with fork 
until white and creamy. 

Reheat; pile lightly in a hot dish and serve uncovered. 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potato into small round cakes 
and roll in flour. Butter a hot frying-pan, put in cakes, 
brown one side, turn and brown the other side, adding 
butter as needed to prevent burning. Remove to hot 
platter and serve. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select smooth, medium-sized potatoes and scrub 
them well with a brush. 

Bake in shallow pan on rack of a hot oven until 
soft, about 45 m. Turn occasionally. Serve at once 
in an uncovered dish. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 29 

Creamed Potatoes 

1 tbsp. butter. 34 tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1 spk. pepper. 

1 c. milk. 1/^ c. potatoes. 

Make a white sauce. 

Add 13^ c. cold boiled potatoes, cut in half -inch dice. 
Cook until potatoes are thoroughly heated. Add a 
little chopped parsley, if liked. 



Slice a small potato very thin. Place in a glass of 
cold water and allow to stand for one-half hour or more. 
Notice the appearance of the water. What has taken 
place? 

Hold a slice of the potato to the light. Draw, care- 
fully, its appearance. 

Boil the water in which the sliced potato stood. 
What change takes place? 

What causes this change? 

Where does most of the mineral matter of the potato 
lie? 

Why should one not use potato water in cooking? 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Remove skins by placing in boiling water a few 
minutes. They will then peel off easily. Cut in pieces 
and stew in a granite saucepan until tender. To each 



30 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

cup of tomatoes add 1 tsp. butter, M tsp. salt, J^ tsp. 
sugar, spk. pepper. Thicken, if desired, with 2 tbsp. 
cracker crumbs. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes or 1 can. 

1 tsp. salt. 

yi tsp. pepper. 

1 tbsp. sugar. 

lJ^-2 c. bread crumbs 

2-4 tbsp. butter. 

Mix melted butter and crumbs. Sprinkle layer in 
bottom of baking-dish. PotU" in half the tomato, 
scatter half the crumbs over this, add remaining tomato, 
cover with crumbs. Brown in a quick oven. 



Spinach 

Freshen four bunches of spinach, pick over carefully, 
and wash in five different waters. Place in a saucepan 
without any water. Cover the saucepan, stirring occa- 
sionally to prevent burning; cook 5 m. Drain in a 
colander and chop fine. 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter in saucepan, add 1 tbsp. flour, 
3^ tsp. salt, y^ tsp. pepper. Then stir in J^ c. vinegar 
and ]/2 c- water and add 2 tbsp. sugar. Stir constantly 
and, when thickened, add the spinach. Serve, gar- 
nished with hard cooked eggs. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 31 

Why is spinach good for us? 
How else may it be served? 

White Sauce 

1 c. milk. 

2 tbsp. flour. 

1 tbsp. butter. 
yi tsp. salt. 
Spk. pepper. 

Melt butter, add flour, salt, pepper, stir well to- 
gether, add part of milk and stir until smooth and 
thick. Add half remaining milk, stir until boiling; add 
remaining milk and boil. 

Creamed Carrots 

2 c. cubed, cooked carrots. 
1 c. white sauce. 

Prepare carrots according to directions, cut into y^ 
inch dice, boil until tender in salted water, drain, and 
serve in white sauce. 

Young carrots will cook in twenty to thirty minutes; 
the older ones will require one hour. 

Green Peas 

Prepare peas as directed. Wash the pods carefully 
and boil in a small quantity of water. Cook the peas 
in this water. 



32 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

If young and fresh, the peas will cook in thirty 
minutes; when old, allow forty-five to sixty minutes. 
Drain, season with salt and butter, and serve. If de- 
sired, the liquid may be thickened like a white sauce 
and the peas served in this. 

Always save the liquid in which peas have been 
cooked, as it may be used in soups. 



SERVICE 
The Breakfast Table 

Arrange cups and saucers, creamer and sugar bowl, in 
front of the hostess. A coffee-stand should be placed 
at the right of the hostess for the coffee-pot. 

All heavy dishes are placed in front of. the host, so 
that he may serve. 

With fruit, finger bowls should be used. 

The Dinner Table 

The carving set and knife and fork rests should be 
laid in front of the host. The host serves the fish and 
meat. 

The soup ladle should be placed in front of the host- 
ess, handle to the right. The hostess should serve the 
soup, salad, dessert, and coffee, and usually the vege- 
tables. 

The soup spoons should be placed at the right of 
the knives at each place, bowls up. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 33 

Rules for Serving 

Cold food should be served on cold dishes, hot food 
on hot dishes. 

Never fill glasses or cups more than three-fourths 
full. Fill before each course. 

Do not let the table become disorderly during the 
meal. 

When passing a dish, hold it so that the thumb will 
not rest upon the upper surface. 

The waitress should stand at the back of the hostess, 
or while the meat is being carved, at the back of the 
host. She should take each plate from the left as it is 
ready to serve, in her right hand, and place it before 
the person for whom it is intended. Everything is 
served at the left, except liquids in glasses, or cups and 
saucers. 

In passing dishes from which a person is to help 
himself, pass always to the left side, so that the food 
may be taken with the right hand. 

All soiled dishes should be removed from the left. 
The waitress should never pile one dish upon another. 

When one course is finished, soiled dishes should be 
removed first, then food, then clean dishes, then 
crumbs. 

When folding the tablecloth or napkins always fold 
very carefully in the same creases. 



PART II 



EGGS 

Eggs are a tissue-building food, the chief protein 
being a form of albumen. In food value and in digesti- 
bility they compare favorably with meat, and during 
the spring and summer should be freely used. 

When an egg is perfectly fresh it will sink to the 
bottom of a brine made in the proportion of two ounces 
of salt to one pint of water; if stale, the egg will float 
upon the surface. If a stale egg is shaken gently it will 
give a rattling sound. 

Soft-cooked Eggs 

Place egg in stewpan of boiling water, using a spoon. 
Cover closely and place where water will keep hot, but 
where it will not boil. Cook 6 to 8 m. 

Hard-cooked Eggs 

Place egg in stewpan of boiling water, using a spoon. 
Cover closely and place where water will keep hot, but 
where it will not boil. Cook 40 to 45 m. 

[ Poached Eggs on Toast 

Have a shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling, salted 
water, allowing 1 tsp. salt to 1 pt. water. Put a slightly 
buttered muffin-ring in the water. 



38 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Break egg carefully into a cup and slip into muffin- 
ring. The water should cover the egg. 

When there is a film on top, and the white is firm, 
carefully take up ring and egg with a buttered griddle- 
cake turner and place egg on a circular piece of buttered 
toast. 



Pour boiling water over the white of an egg and boil 
hard. How does it appear? 

Fry a httle in hot fat. What is the effect? 

Pour some water heated to 180° F. over the white 
and let stand five minutes. What is the appearance? 

Why should you not cook your eggs at 212° F.? 

How much water do you need to use when cooking 
one egg in the shell? 

When cooking four? 

Name the different parts of an egg. 

Why does an egg become "stale"? 

How many eggs of average size in a pound? 

Compare the cost of steak and eggs. 

Scrambled Eggs 

4 eggs. Yi tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. milk. Spk. pepper. 

Y2 tbsp. butter. 

Beat eggs slightly with a fork, add milk and season- 
ing. Melt butter in saucepan, turn in the egg mixture. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 39 

and stir over a slow fire until it begins to set. Remove 
from fire and cook over hot water until firm, but not 
hard. Serve at once on slices of buttered toast. 

Light Omelet 

2 eggs. 3^ tsp. salt. 

1 tsp. butter. 1 spk. pepper. 

2 tbsp. water. 

Separate yolk from white of eggs. Beat yolks until 
light and creamy, add salt, pepper, and water. Beat 
whites until stifle, cut, and fold them into the yolks. 

Heat omelet pan, and butter sides and bottom. Turn 
in the mixture, spread evenly, place where it will cook 
slowly, occasionally tiu-ning the pan that omelet may 
brown evenly. 

When omelet is well risen and delicately browned 
underneath, place pan on oven grate to finish cooking. 
Fold and turn upon a hot platter. 

French Omelet 

3 eggs. Yi tsp. salt. Spk. pepper. 

Beat the eggs, with the seasoning, just enough to 
break the yolks. Melt 3^ tsp. butter in a frying-pan. 
Turn in the egg mixture, and with a fork lift the cooked 
portions of the egg, allowing the liquid on top to run 
down underneath. When the egg is cooked, but still 
quite soft on top, slip the knife underneath and roll 



40 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

the omelet to the center. Let it cook for a moment, 
then turn upon a hot platter. Serve at once. 



Estimate cost of each recipe and note the number of 
people it will serve. 

Egg Vermicelli 

y^ tbsp. butter. 34 tsp. salt. 

2y2 tbsp. flour. 1 spk. pepper. 

IJ^ c. milk. 4 to 6 slices toasted bread. 

3 hard-cooked eggs. 

Make a white sauce of the first five ingredients. 

Chop the whites of the eggs, add to the white sauce, 
and pour over the toasted bread. 

Press the yolks through a strainer and sprinkle over 
the top. 

General Rules for Custards 

When using milk and eggs together in cooking, cook 
them at a low temperature. Soft custards should be 
cooked in a double boiler. Baked custards should be 
set in a pan of hot water while baking. 

When putting hot milk and cold egg together, pour 
the milk on the egg very slowly, while stirring. 

Stir a soft custard all the time while cooking, and 
when done take out of the hot water immediately. 

Should the custard curdle, place the saucepan in cold 
water and beat the custard with a Dover egg-beater. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 41 

A soft custard is done when it forms a coating on a 
spoon. 

A baked custard is done when a silver knife inserted 
in the custard comes out clean. 

Custard Sauce 

IJ/^ c. milk. y^ tsp. salt. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. }/^ tsp. vanilla. 

J^ c. sugar. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the egg yolk 
slightly, add the sugar and salt. 

Pour the hot milk over this mixture, stirring until 
the egg is all removed from the sides of the bowl. 

Return to the double boiler, and cook until a 
coating is formed. Strain the custard and, when cool, 
flavor. 

Three egg yolks must be used if the custard is not to 
be used as a sauce. 

Baked Custards 

2 c. milk. 34 c. sugar. 

3 eggs. )^ tsp. salt. 
1 tsp. vanilla or a little grated nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together until light. Add 
milk and vanilla. Pour into buttered custard cups. 
Stand in pan of hot water. 

Bake in oven until custards are firm in the middle. 
Turn out when cold. 



42 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Estimate cost of the egg vermicelli. 
How could you turn the plain baked custard into a 
caramel custard? 
When should custard desserts be served? 



MILK 

Signs of Good Milk 

"There should be no sediment of dirt after standing. 
There should be about one-sixth the total depth of 
cream — the narrowing neck of the bottle may make it 
seem even more. The milk should keep sweet twenty- 
four hours, and when it tastes sour it should separate 
into curds and whey, not be simply a uniform white 
mass, as is likely to happen when soda is used to keep 
it." 1 

Cottage Cheese 

Heat thick, sour milk over hot water until the whey 
separates. Place in cheesecloth and let drain until no 
whey remains. Salt to taste, adding a little cream to 
give the right consistency. Shape into balls of the de- 
sired size. 

Butter 

Use thick, sour cream. If a large amount, place in 
churn; if small, beat with spoon or egg-beater. When 
small globules of butter have formed, drain off the 

• Mrs. Richards's " Food Materials and their Adulterations." 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 43 

buttermilk, wash in clear, cold water, salt to taste, and 
shape in rolls or balls. 

Junket or Thick Milk 

1 qt. milk. 2 tbsp. cold water. 

1 junket tablet. 3<£ c. sugar. 

Flavoring: vanilla, nutmeg. 
(1 tbsp. liquid rennet may be used instead of junket.) 

Place the milk in double boiler and warm it. Do 
not let it become hot. 

Add the rennet dissolved in the cold water, and stir. 
Add flavoring. 

Keep in a warm place till thick. Then set in a cool 
place, taking care not to shake it. 

Serve cold with a custard sauce. 



Why does milk sour? 

What is the curd of the milk composed of? 

What is cheese a substitute for? 

What is condensed milk? 

What is certified milk? 

CREAM SOUPS 

Cream soups are a combination of strained, cooked 
vegetable pulp and white sauce; sometimes a small 
amount of white stock is also used. The proportions 
are equal parts of pulp and white sauce. The vegetables 



44 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

generally used are peas, beans, corn, asparagus, celery, 
and potatoes. 

Usually the vegetable is cooked in a small quantity 
of water, and this is mixed with the pulp before meas- 
uring and adding to the white sauce, but with potatoes 
the water is not used. 

The amount of starch in the vegetable used will make 
it necessary for more or less flout to be used in the 
white sauce; the final consistency of the soup should 
be that of good cream. If the soup stands any length 
of time it will become too thick, but may be thinned 
with hot milk. Allow one cup of soup for each person 
when planning your meal. 

Potato Soup 

1 c. potatoes. 3 tbsp. butter. 

3 c. milk. 2 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. water. Y^ tsp. salt. 

1 stalk celery, Spk. pepper. 

34 onion. Spk. celery salt. 

Boil potatoes, and mash. Cook milk, celery, and onion* 
together 20 m. in double boiler. Add to potato, thicken 
as for white sauce, strain, and serve at once. 

Mock Bisque Soup 

2 c. milk. 3 tbsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. flour. ' Spk. pepper. 

2 c. tomato juice. 34 tsp. baking soda. 

Yi tsp. salt. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 45 

Combine milk, butter, flour, salt, and pepper as for 
white sauce. Heat tomato and stir in soda, let the 
mixture stand 5 m., add to the white sauce, heat, and 
serve immediately. 

Com Soup 

}/2 pt. water. 2 tbsp. minced onion. 

1 pt. canned corn. Y2 tsp. salt. 

1 pt. white sauce (thin). Y^ tsp. pepper. 
3^^ tsp. celery salt. 

Cook corn and water fifteen minutes. Strain. Cook 
the onion in the milk, in a double boiler, before making 
the white sauce. Add the strained corn pulp and sea- 
soning to white sauce, and serve. 

Tomato Soup 

1 pt. strained tomato juice. 

1 pt. water in which peas and pea pods have been 
cooked. 

1 tbsp. onion. 

2 tbsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. flour. 
1 tsp. salt. 

y^ tsp. paprika. 

Brown the onion in the butter, add the flour, salt, 
pepper, and stir the tomato juice in slowly. Strain 
into the pea liquid, heat, and serve. 



46 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Why do you use soda in the mock bisque and not in 
the other tomato soup? 

Estimate the cost of the corn soup. 

When would you usually serve cream soup? 



MEAT 

The most important of the protein foods are found 
among the different varieties of meat. All meat is 
composed of water, protein and fat, the proportions of 
each varying in different cuts from the same animal, 
and in different animals. 

Beef is more commonly used than any other meat. 
It is best when taken from a young, full-grown animal, 
four to eight years old. The lean meat should be firm 
yet juicy, and should turn a bright red when cut. The 
fat should be generous in amount, creamy white in 
color, and firm to the touch. 

Next to beef, in importance, stands mutton; this, 
like beef, is found in the market the year round, and, 
if the sheep be not more than three or four years old,» 
is good. The lean meat should be bright red in color, 
fine grained and juicy. The fat, however, is stronger 
in taste, whiter in color, harder in appearance, and less 
digestible than beef fat. 

Veal, lamb, and pork are less digestible than beef 
and mutton and require more thorough cooking. 

Poultry includes all domestic fowls; it is more expen- 
sive than the varieties of meat already mentioned, and 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 47 

likewise contains less nourishment, but the flavor is 
usually more delicate. 

Game includes all varieties of wild animals used as 
food, such as venison, bear, partridge, quail, rabbits, 
wild turkeys, and squirrel. 



Pull a small piece of lean meat apart. 

What is the protein of meat called? 

Scrape a small piece of meat. 

Cook and taste both the portion scraped and that 
remaining. (Cook in the frying-pan.) 

What is the effect of heat on the meat? 

Which portion is palatable? 

Place a small piece of lean meat in cold water; after 
fifteen minutes note the result. 

Pour boiling water over a piece of meat. What 
happens? 

What causes the change to take place? 

Where have you seen the same result before? 



48 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 




Diagram of side of beef. 

1. Neck. 5. Sirloin. 9. Shank. 

2. Chuck. 6. Rump. 10. Plate. 

3. Rib. 7. Round. 11. Clod. 

4. Short Loin. 8. Flank. 

Where will we find the tender meat in an animal? 
Name the three cuts that are the least tender. 
What are these used for? 



Soup Stock 

6 lbs. shin of beef, well broken. 
6 qts. cold water. 
1 tbsp. salt. 
12 pepper-corns. 
6 cloves. 



y2 c. onions. 
}/2 c. carrot. 
}/2 c. turnip. 
J^ c. celery. 
2 sprigs parsley. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 49 

Remove Yi lb. lean meat. Wash meat and bone 
carefully. Put all but the half pound into the cold 
water and let stand 15 m., then bring slowly to boil- 
ing point. Brown the diced vegetables in the marrow 
fat, skim from the spider, and place with the meat. 
Add the lean meat, cut fine, and brown that in the 
remaining fat. Add this to the boiling stock and let 
the whole simmer for 5 to 6 h. Add salt just before 
removing from fire. 

Strain and cool. When ready to serve, remove fat 
and reheat. (If a brown color is not desired, place all 
the meat and vegetables in the cold water at once.) 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices and remove 
the crusts; spread thinly with butter; cut the slices in 
one-half inch squares, lay in pan buttered side up; put 
in the oven and bake until a hght brown, or brown, 
without adding any butter. 

Beef Tea 

3 lbs. round steak. 
1 qt. cold water. 

Cut into half-inch cubes, place in bowl and pour 
water over, let stand one hour, simmer 2 to 3 h. 
Strain, season, cool, remove fat, reheat, and serve. 
(Season with salt alone, unless the physician says 
pepper may be used.) 



50 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

In sickness the physician often prescribes broth or 
beef tea, which is a form of simple soup stock. 



Mutton Broth 

2 lb. neck of mutton. 
1 slice onion (medium size). 
1 qt. water (cold). 
3^ tsp. salt. 

Cut meat into small pieces, place in bowl with sea- 
soning and water, let stand 1 h. Simmer 3 to 4 h. 
Strain, cool, remove fat, reheat, and serve. (Beef 
broth may be made in the same way, using meat from 
the round.) 

Beef Extract 
1 lb. of beef from top of round. 

Wipe meat, remove all fat, and cut into small pieces. 
Place in quart fruit jar and put on cover. Place on 
trivet in kettle and surround with cold water. 

Let water heat slowly, care being taken that it does 
not boil. Allow the meat to stand in water for 2 h. 

Strain; press the meat to obtain all the juices. Salt, 
or not, as the physician directs. 



Name four different soups that may be served, using 
the same stock for each soup. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 51 

Broiled Steak 

Meat: 

Top of the round. 

Porterhouse steak. 

Sirloin steak. 

T-bone or short steak. 
Thickness: 

One to one and a half inches. 
Tiine: 

One inch, — 8 m. 

One and a half inches, — 11m. 
Directions: 

Trim, remove superfluous fat; 

Rub granite or iron pan with a little fat; 

Place under hot gas in broiling oven; 

In 4 m. turn, or 

Rub a broiler with a little fat; 

Prepare a bed of coals (glowing red) ; 

Place meat in broiler directly over coals; 

When seared on under surface, turn; 

Then tiu^n every 2 or 3 m. 
Test when done: 

Brown on surface, puffed up and elastic in appear- 
ance. When cut there should be a thin crust, and the 
rest should have an even, red color. 

Pan-broiled Steak 

Prepare as before. Have cast-iron griddle smoking 
hot, place meat on griddle, sear quickly on one side. 



52 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

turn and sear the other side, and turn once or twice 
more. Cook a little longer than when directly over the 
fire. 



How can you recognize porterhouse steak? 
Draw the shape. 
The short steak? 
Draw the shape. 

Why do the juices of steak remain in the meat when 
it is properly cooked? 
How may round steak be made more tender? 
a. 
h. 

Broiled Meat Cakes 

Buy round steak and run it through the meat-grinder. 
To 1 lb. of meat add 

2 tbsp. minced onion. 
5^ tsp. salt. 
J^ tsp. pepper. 

Mix lightly together and shape into small flat cakes. 
Cook as you would pan-broiled steak. 



Beef Stew 

1 lb. meat, neck or round. 
3 potatoes, medium size. 

2 carrots, medium size. 
2 turnips, medium size. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 53 

1 onion, medium size. 

3 tbsp. beef fat or marrow from bone. 
1 qt. water. 

1 tsp. salt. 
3^ tsp. celery salt. 
3^ tsp. pepper. 
yi tsp. paprika. 

4 tbsp. flom*. 

Cut the tender meat into pieces about one and a 
half inches square. Place any bone there may be, and 
the tough pieces of meat, in cold water, and bring slowly 
to the boiling-point. Roll the tender pieces of meat in 
the flour, and brown in the beef fat or marrow. Add to 
the rest of the meat and simmer 3 or 4 h. 

Prepare the vegetables, cut into half-inch dice and 
add to the boiling stew. Allow J^ h. for the carrots, 
tiu-nips, and onions, and 20 m. for the potatoes. (Par- 
boil the potatoes before adding.) 

Remove the bone and tough portions of the meat, 
season to taste, thicken to the consistency of a thin 
white sauce, and serve with dumplings. 

Dumplings 

1 c. flom-. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

3^ tsp. salt. Milk. 

Sift all the ingredients into a bowl. Add milk to 
make a soft dough. 



54 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Drop by spoonfuls into the boiling stew, cover closely 
and cook 15 m. without removing cover. 

Be careful not to have too much liquid, or the dump- 
lings will be heavy. 



Why do you brown the tender meat? 
Why place the rest in cold water? 
Why parboil the potatoes? 
Estimate the cost of the beef stew. 



Left-over Meat Dishes 



Remove all bone and gristle, and most of the fat. 
Use the bones in making s6up stock or a sauce in which . 
to serve the meat. Season the meat highly. Combine 
with potato, rice, macaroni, or spaghetti. If possible, 
use a little tomato with the meat. If the meat is tender, 
simply reheat; if tough, simmer until tender. 

Cottage Pie 

2 c. cooked meat (diced fine). 
2-33^ c. meat sauce, onion flavor. 

3 c. mashed potato. 

Place meat in baking-dish, pour sauce over, cover 
with mashed potato, and brown in a quick oven. Serve 
hot. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 55 

Scalloped Mutton 

Remove the fat and skin from cold roast mutton; 
chop, and season with salt and pepper. 

Butter a shallow baking-dish; put in a layer of 
crumbs, then a layer of meat. 

Next put in a layer of tomato sauce or brown gravy, 
and one of cold boiled macaroni, if liked. 

Continue in this order until the dish is nearly full. 

On top spread a thick layer of crumbs mixed with 
2 tbsp. melted butter. 

Bake in a hot oven till the crumbs are brown. 

Hash 

Mix and heat together equal parts of chopped, 
cooked meat and chopped, boiled potatoes. 

If dry, add 1 tbsp. butter or beef drippings, and 
2 tbsp. hot water, to every 2 c. of hash. 

Season with salt and pepper, adding onion juice, 
parsley, or other seasoning, if desired. 

Rice Balls 

2 tbsp. boiled rice. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 tsp. chopped meat (beef, mutton, chicken, etc.) 

Spread rice on square of cheesecloth, and place 
seasoned meat in the center. Take up the cloth and 
form a soUd ball, having the rice entirely surround the 



56 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

meat. Tie with twine. Cook in boiling water 10 m. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 
The amount given is for one rice ball. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

Chop fine any cold, cooked meat. 
Moisten with gravy, season, and heat. 
Spread on shoes of crisp, buttered toast, dipped in 
hot salted water. 



What kinds of fat may be used for frying? 
How may we clarify this fat? 
What are beef drippings? 
What may they be used for? 

GELATINE 

Lemon Jelly 

J^ box gelatine, or 2 tbsp. granulated gelatine. 

3^ c. cold water. 

23^ c. boiling water. 

1 c. sugar. 

3^ cup lemon juice. 

Fill mold with cold water. Soak gelatine 20 m. in 
the cold water, and add the boiling water. Stir, add 
sugar and hold over hot water until all sugar and gela- 
tine are dissolved. Add lemon juice and strain into 
cold, wet mold. 



. A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 57 

Raspberry Cream 

J^ box gelatine. 1 pt. raspberry juice. 

J^ c. sugar. 1 pt. cream. 

3^ c. cold water. 

Cover gelatine with water, and soak Y^ h., then stand 
it over boiling water until thoroughly dissolved. Add 
to it the sugar and raspberry juice, and strain into a 
dish. 

Place the dish in a pan of ice, and stir continually, 
until the mixture thickens, then add the cream, whipped. 
Stir carefully until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a 
mold, and stand in a cold place to harden. 



TVTiat is its chief source of gelatine? 

How is it obtained? 

What is its chief food value? 

FISH 

Fish stands next to eggs and meat as a protein food. 
All fish may be divided into three classes — white fish, 
oily fish, shellfish. The oily fish are the richest in ex- 
tractives and fat, but are less easily digested than the 
white fish. 

Only fresh fish should be pm-chased; if good, the 
flesh will be firm and plump, the gills red, and the eyes 
bright. 



58 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Boiled Fish 

Wash the fish well in cold water, wipe carefully, and 
rub with a little salt. 

Wrap in cheesecloth, tie the ends, and place in fish 
kettle. Cover with boiling water. Add 

1 tsp. salt. SUce of onion. 

1 bay leaf. Sprig of parsley. 

Cover and simmer 10 m. to every pound. Take 
the fish from the .water as soon as it is done, drain, 
remove the cloth carefully; turn the fish on a hot 
plate and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. 

Fried Fish 

Clean the fish and wipe as dry as possible. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then dip in white 
of egg and roll in bread crumbs or corn meal. 

Put into a frying-pan 2 tbsp. of fat which must 
become very hot before the fish is put in. Turn the 
fish with a broad knife or pancake turner, with care 
not to break the fish. 

When cooked an amber color it is ready to turn. 
In serving lay the slices of fish overlapping each other 
on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley. 

Baked Fish 

Scrape the fish free from all scales. Make a small 
opening down the under side and remove the vitals. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 59 

Wash well inside and out, wipe dry with a clean towel. 
Rub well with salt. Make a dressing of 

1 c. stale bread crumbs. 2 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

2 tbsp. melted butter. 1 tsp. salt. 

Mix well and stuff the fish, sewing it up with soft 
yarn. 

Score one side of the fish with a sharp knife, making 
the scores about one inch apart, and dredge thickly 
with salt, pepper, and fiour. 

Baste every ten minutes with the gravy in the pan. 



Make a list of the oily fish found in your market, 
with price per pound. 

Make a list of the white fish, with price per pound. 

Name the common shellfish. 

Name the fish which we may buy dried or salted. 

Fish Balls 

1 c. shredded codfish. Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 c. mashed potato. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. butter. 

Boil fish and potato together; drain well. Mash, 
adding seasoning and beaten egg. 

Shape in small balls, or drop by spoonfuls into hot 
fat and fry until a rich brown. Drain on brown paper. 
Serve hot. If desired, dip in beaten egg and roll in 
sifted, dried bread or cracker crumbs before frying. 



60 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Creamed Codfish 

Split salt fish into small pieces. Soak in cold water 
over night. Pour boiling water over it twice in the 
morning. Drain and stir into a white sauce to which 
you have added three eggs, hard cooked, and cut into 
small pieces. Proportions: 

2 c. fish. 3 eggs. ^ c. white sauce. 

Serve with baked potatoes. 

BEANS 

Sometimes we cannot obtain either meat or fish, or 
we do not care to serve animal food, yet we must have 
our protein in some form. Then we find that certain 
vegetables will work in very well, and peas and beans 
head the list. This form of protein is not so easily 
digested, nor is it so thoroughly assimilated by the 
system, and it would be very unwise to use it commonly, 
but occasionally it is most acceptable. 

We may serve plain boiled lima beans, Boston baked 
beans, or bean soup; but with many the Spanish beans 
will prove to be the most appetizing. 

Spanish Beans 

2 tbsp. vinegar. Salt to taste. 

1 onion. 1 spk. cayenne. 

2 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. tomato. 

1 pt. pink beans. J^ of a red pepper. 

4 tbsp. butter. 



A. HANDBOOK. OF HOME 'ECONOMICS 61 

1. Soak the beans over night; boil in salted water 
until tender. 

2. Change the water three times during cooking. Be 
siu-e to add boiling water each time. 

3. Remove two-thirds of the beans. 

4. Add remaining materials, with exception of 
salt and butter, to beans left in kettle, and boil 

5. Press these beans, with the onion, etc., through a 
sieve; add the water they were boiled in. 

6. Pour this mixture over the whole beans, heat 
again, adding 4 tbsp. butter, and salt to taste. 

Note. — A 2-in. piece of fat salt pork may be boiled 
with the beans, and less butter used. 



Lima Beans 
1 pt. dried Lima beans. 

Pick over carefully, wash, soak in cold water over 
night. Place in fresh boiling water and cook gently 1 
to IM h. 

Drain, season with salt and butter, and serve hot. 



Estimate the cost of the Spanish beans. 

Make a list of vegetables that are rich in protein. 



62 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

HOUSEKEEPING 
Laundry Work 

When preparing for laundry work, sort out the clothes 
carefully, remove stains, prepare the first water, and 
place the more delicate articles in it. If the water is 
hard, soften by the use of a very little soda water (sal 
soda dissolved in hot water) or borax water. Vary the 
amount of soap according to the kind used. Soak all 
white clothes for an hour or more before washing; 
wash the delicate articles without rubbing; put clothes 
through five waters, if possible. Make bluing water 
the shade of the clear sky at the zenith. 

Set the color in delicate fabrics. Sugar of lead is 
good for blues. Use 1 oz. to 1 gal. of water, and 
soak 1 h. (Remember that this is a poison and keep 
it on a high shelf, plainly marked.) Ordinary colors 
will do well with salt in the rinsing-water after the 
first time; allow 1 tbsp. salt to 1 qt. of water. Vine- 
gar is often used for lavender and purple; the propor- 
tion is the same as salt. Alum is good for green; the 
proportion is the same. 

When possible, boil all white clothes, using a small 
amount of soap in the water. 

Hot starch should be used generally for all clothes 
that are to be stiffened. Use 

1 tbsp. starch. Yi tsp. borax. 



A HANDBOOK .^OF<HOME ECONOMICS 63 

Mix with a little cold water and stir in boiling water 
until transparent. 

Flannel and silk should be washed in warm, soapy- 
water (Wool Soap or Ivory Soap will give good results), 
rinsed carefully in water of the same temperatm-e, and 
hung to dry immediately. (Always wash these by hand, 
without using the washboard.) Iron the silk before it 
is fully dry, but allow the flannel to dry thoroughly. 
Very soft silk may be dipped in water in which gum 
arable has been dissolved. Mix 1 oz. of gum with 1 pt. 
of hot water, strain through a cloth, and use 2 tsp. to 
1 c. of water. 



To Remove Stains 

Tea or Coffee. — Rinse well and pour boiling water 
over the stain. 

Chocolate. — Sprinkle with powdered borax and soak 
well in cold water. Add boiling water. 

Fruit. — Dip into Javelle water and rinse thor- 
oughly, or treat like tea stains. 

Ink. — Soak two or three hours in coal oil, remove 
and wash in strong soap-suds, or rub with lemon juice 
and salt. 

Calla lily. — Nothing satisfactory; try ammonia 
several times. 

Milk. — Wash quickly in cold water. 

Scorch. — Hang in sun and try soap solution. 

Grass. — Wash in alcohol and rub well. 



64 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Paint. — Rub with benzine or turpentine. 

Blood. — Soak in cold water until stain turns brown, 
then wash in warm water and soap. 

Mildew. — Rub lemon juice upon the spots and place 
in sunshine. Salt may also be used. 

Iron Rust. — Spread carefully over bowl in which 
you have placed J^ tsp. borax and 1 pt. water. Drop 
by drop apply acid until the stain brightens; then dip 
directly in water. Repeat if necessary. It is often 
wise to add ammonia to the rinsing water. 



Javelle Water 

4 lbs. washing soda. 
4 qts. boiling water. 
1 lb. chloride of lime. 

Dissolve soda in water in agate or granite-ware 
kettle, boil 10 m., stir in the lime gradually. When 
cold, strain through cloth and place in bottles. For 
ordinary bleaching, use 1 c. to 8 qts. of water. Do not 
leave in the water over 5 m. 



What is the difference between soft and hard 
water? 
What makes a good soap? 
How do you prepare an ironing board? 
What is the best shape and why? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 65 

BATTERS 

Any mixture of flour and liquid thin enough to be 
beaten is called a batter. Batter may be divided into 
three classes, — thin, thick, and drop-batters. 

The proportions for the thin batters are equal parts 
of flour and liquid. 

The proportions for the thick batter are tAvice as 
much flour as liquid. 

A drop-batter requires enough flour to cause it to 
fall readily from the spoon. 

Popovers 

1 c. floiu-. 1 egg. 

1 c. milk. M tsp. salt. 

Sift flour into bowl. In the center of the flour place 
the egg, unbeaten, add the salt and milk, stir until 
thoroughly mixed, then beat for a moment. Bake in a 
moderate oven 30 to 40 m. Or: Beat the egg (it is 
better if two are used) separately, add milk to yolk, 
and stir into dry material. Beat with Dover egg- 
beater. Then fold in stiff white. 

What makes the popovers Ught? 

Experiments 

Place 1 tsp. soda in a glass. Add J<^ c. cold water. 
Note results. 



66 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Place 2 tsp. cream of tartar in a glass. Add }/i c. 
cold water. Note results. 

Mix 1 tbsp. of the soda water with the cream of 
tartar. Note results. 

Mix 1 tbsp. of soda water with 1 tbsp. vinegar. Note 
results. 

What does soda come from? 

What does cream of tartar come from? 

What is the name of the product formed from their 
union? 

General Rules for Baking Powder 

2 tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour without eggs. 
13^ tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour with eggs. 
1 tsp. baking powder and 3^ tsp. soda to 1 c. solid 
sour milk. 

Rules for Mixing and Baking Quick Breads 

Sift dry materials. 

Mix liquid materials. 

Stir liquid into dry. 

Add shortening, melted. 

Beat well for two or three minutes. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

Note: 

Stir all mixtures to make them smooth. 
Beat all mixtures to make them light. 
Cut the stiff whites of eggs into a mixture. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 67 

Order of Work: 
Look after the heat of the oven; if you have a gas 

range, light the oven. 
Butter the baking-tins with any sweet, fresh fat. 
Get the utensils ready for work. 
Prepare the materials. 
Mix. 

Baking-powder Biscuits 

2 c. flour. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 

y^ tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. lard or butter. 

Milk or water to make a soft dough. 

Sift dry materials. Cut or chop in butter or lard, 
using a case-knife. Add enough liquid to make a soft 
dough. Turn upon a floured board, pat lightly into 
shape, half an inch thick. Cut, place on a slightly 
floured tin, and bake in a hot oven about 10 m. 



Change this biscuit recipe into shortcake dough. 
Name the different fruits commonly used for short- 
cake. 
Write the directions for making shortcake. 

Griddle Cakes 

3 c. flour. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 tsp. salt. Milk to make a soft batter. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 2 tbsp. butter. 



68 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Sift dry Ingredients, add beaten eggs and milk, beat 
well and add butter. 

Drop by spoonfuls on a hot, greased griddle. Turn 
when full of bubbles on top and cooked on edges. Cook 
the other side till brown. 



Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

23^ c. flour. Yi tsp. salt. 

2 c. sour milk. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. soda. 

Syrup 

2 c. brown sugar. ^ c. water. 

Stir till dissolved and bring to the boiling 
point. 
Boil 5 m. 



What is baking powder? 

Name two standard kinds. 

What is the price of baking powder per pound? 

How many teaspoons in a half pound? 

What kind of a griddle is best for hot cakes? 

What comes next? 

Reduce the recipe for griddle cakes to one-eighth. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 69 

Commeal MufiSns 

1 c. flour. 1 egg. 

Yi c. corn meal. 3 tbsp, butter. 

Ji c. sugar. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. milk. 3^ tsp. salt. 

Sift dry ingredients, add milk, well-beaten egg, and 
melted butter. Place in greased pans and bake fifteen 
to twenty minutes, in a quick oven. 



Graham Mu£Sns 

1 c. Graham flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. white flour. 3^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. butter. 

)/i c. sugar. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix, and bake like corn meal muflBns. 



Estimate the cost of both of these recipes. 



Wheat Muffins 

2 c. flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. shortening. 

34 c. sugar. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

3^ tsp. salt. 



70 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Sift dry materials, beat egg, add milk, stir into dry 
materials, and add shortening, melted. Bake in 
buttered pans 20 m. in a quick oven. 



Estimate the cost of this recipe. 
How many should it serve? 

Boston Brown Bread 
2 c. corn meal. 3 c. warm water. 

1 c. rye or Graham flour. 3 tsp. soda. 

1 c. common flour. J^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. molasses. 

Sift the dry materials, add liquid, and steam in one 
dish four hours, or in tiny cups three-fourths of an hour 
to one hour. 



Explain what takes the place of the cream of tartar 
in this recipe. 
What might be used in place of the water? 

CAKE 
General Rules for Cake 

Prepare oven; prepare tins; prepare utensils; pre- 
pare ingredients; cream butter; add sugar gradually; 
separate eggs; beat yolks creamy; beat whites stiff; 
sift flour, salt, baking powder. 

Add a little of the dry materials to the creamed 
butter and sugar. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 71 

Mix milk and egg yolk. Add half to creamed mixtui-e. 

Alternate with dry material until all is added. Fold 
in stiff whites and flavoring. Bake in a moderate oven. 
If it is a layer cake use a quick oven. If a moist 
cake is desired, add eggs, unbeaten, to creamed butter 
and sugar. 

Plain Cake 

4 tbsp. butter. 

1 c. fine granulated or powdered sugar. 

2 eggs. 

y^ c- milk. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 

1^ c. flour. 

1 tsp. spice or Y^ tsp. flavoring. 

1 spk. salt. 



Suggest foiu" variations made from this recipe. 
Estimate the cost of the plain cake. 

Sponge Cake 

1 c. sugar. 4 eggs. 

1 c. flour. 3 tbsp. milk or water. 

1 tsp. flavoring. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

34 tsp. salt. 

Separate eggs, beat yolks creamy, whites stiff. Add 
sugar lightly to yolks, then flour and baking powder, 



72 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

sifted thoroughly together. Stir the milk, flavoring, 
and salt in lightly, then fold in stiff whites. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



What is the difference between angel cake and sponge 
cake? 

Which is the more tender and why? 

Estimate the cost with eggs at 60^ per dozen and at 
25^ per dozen. 

Gingerbread 

1 c. molasses. J^ c. shortening. 

}4 c. sugar. 1 tsp. ginger. 

3 0. flour. 1 tsp. soda. 

1 c. boiling water. J^ tsp. salt, 
legg. 

Cream butter, add sugar, well-beaten egg, molasses, 
and salt. Stir in the flour and soda, thoroughly sifted 
together. Pour the boiling water over the ginger, and 
add last. Beat well and bake in a shallow pan in a 
moderate oven. 



What could we add to this which would change it 
into a spice cake? 
Give the exact amounts needed. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 73 

CANDY 

Fondant 

2 c. granulated sugar. 
3^ c. water. 

Boil until it threads on a fork (242° F.). Do not 
stir while cooking. Remove from the fire. When 
lukewarm, beat until creamy and stiff enough to handle. 
Knead lightly until soft and pliable. 

Boil the sugar and water gently; if the side of the 
saucepan becomes covered with granulated sugar, wipe 
it off with a damp cloth, and if the sugar granulates 
when you begin to stir it, add more water and boil 
again. 

Butter-scotch 

1 c. butter. 5 tbsp. molasses. 

1 ^ c. sugar. Yi tsp. vanilla. 

Boil molasses, sugar, and butter twenty minutes, 
stirring as little as possible, add flavoring and turn into 
prepared dishes. Cut when it begins to stiffen. 

Bonbons 

Roll candied fruit or nuts into some of the fondant, 
making small balls. Dip in some fondant melted over 
hot water. Be sure and stir the fondant while it is 
melting. 



74 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Compare the cost of bonbons made from fondant 
and the high-priced ones in stores. 
Write out directions for making chocolate creams. 
Write out directions for making peppermints. 



COOKIES 

In rolling cookies, handle the rolling-pin very lightly 
and roll only a small amount of dough at a time. Use 
as little flour as possible on the board and be sure that 
the cookies are not floury when placed in the oven. 
Watch the oven carefully, as they burn very easily. 
Cool thoroughly before placing in pail, jar, or can. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 c. molasses. 4 tbsp. butter. 

1 tsp. ginger. 1 tsp. soda. 

Spk. salt. Flour to make stiff dough. 

Boil molasses, add butter, ginger, salt, soda, flour. 
Roll very thin, cut in rounds, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Plain Cookies 

1 c. sugar. 1 egg. 

Yi c. butter. J^ tsp. salt. 

Yi c. milk. Yi tsp. flavoring. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 
Flour to make a dough stiff enough to roll. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 75 

Roll one-eighth inch thick, cut in rounds, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Fruit Cookies 

3^ c. butter. J^ tsp. salt. 

M c. sugar. J/^ tsp. cinnamon. 

2 eggs (small). J^ c. chopped walnuts. 
3^ tsp, soda. 34 c. currants. 

3 tbsp. hot water. 3€ c- raisins, seeded and chopped. 

About IM c. flour. 

Cream the butter. Add the sugar gradually, then 
add the eggs, well beaten, the soda dissolved in the 
hot water, and one-half of the flour, mixed and sifted 
with the salt and cinnamon. 

Then add the walnuts, raisins, and currants, and the 
rest of the flour. Drop by spoonfuls one inch apart on 
a greased pan, and bake in a moderate oven. 



HYGIENE 

You have studied hygiene in your class-room and you 
know what the word means and how it applies to the 
person and the public: Water, milk, fruits, and vege- 
tables, the city markets, the streets of the town, the 
collection and care of the garbage, the care of base- 
ments, alleys, and back yards, the style of the buildings, 
the hospitals for the care of the sick, all have to do in 
one way or another with public hygiene. 



76 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

How do water and milk affect the public health? 

How may fruits and vegetables be kept in a hygienic 
condition? 

What should be the condition of basements? 

What should be the condition of alleys? 

Give two ways in which you can help the public good 
health. 

1. 

2. 

However carefully the public may plan, the results 
will not be satisfactory unless each individual looks after 
his own personal hygiene. We are so closely bound 
together, especially in city life, that no one can exist to 
himself alone. You have learned that certain things lead 
to increased health and strength. Name some of these 
things. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

If you have indigestion how can you probably over- 
come it? 

How are you going to care for your teeth, and how 
often will you visit the dentist? 

Why are you to use your own personal towel and 
drinking-cup? 

Why are you to sleep with your windows open both 
top and bottom? 

How will you help destroy flies and mosquitoes? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 77 

MARMALADE 

Orange Marmalade 

5 large oranges. 2 qts. water. 

2 lemons. 2 lbs. sugar. 

Slice oranges thin, add juice of lemons and pour over 
the water. Let stand 24 h. (uncovered except by a 
thin cloth). Cook until the rind is tender and let stand 
24 h. longer. 

Add the sugar and cook gently until it jellies. This 
should make six glasses. 

Peach Marmalade 

Peel peaches, halve; measure. To 6 qts. peaches 
take one quart water, cook gently one hour, add half 
the quantity of sugar, cook one hour, stirring often. 

Rhubarb with Pineapple Marmalade 

4 lbs. rhubarb. 4 lbs. sugar. 

1 pineapple. 

Cut pineapple fine and rhubarb into half -inch pieces, 
cook together until tender, add sugar, and cook until it 
thickens slightly. 

Add a very little water when beginning to cook. 



What must you do to the glasses before pom-ing in 
the marmalade? 



78 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Why must this be done? 

How should the glasses be covered? 

Name other kinds of marmalade. 



BREAD 

In our work with marmalade we have been very 
careful to destroy anything that might cause fermenta- 
tion in our finished product. Now we are going to work 
with just the opposite idea in mind. Our earlier lessons 
in doughs have been where the carbon dioxide was 
quickly formed and quickly escaped. When we study 
bread, we find that even the quickest process requires 
several hours, and frequently six to eight hours pass 
before the finished loaves come from the oven. 

The foundation of good bread is good flour and good 
yeast; let either of these be poor and the result is a 
partial failure. By good yeast is meant fresh, pure 
yeast which will grow rapidly and help to produce the 
carbon dioxide we want, and only that. Yeast is a tiny 
plant that grows very rapidly but cannot be seen with- 
out a microscope; to develop thus rapidly it must have 
a warm, not hot, atmosphere, with plenty of food and 
drink. As it grows in the dough it splits up the sugar 
in the mixture, and from this comes the carbon dioxide 
which makes the bread light. A certain amount of 
alcohol is also thrown off, but this escapes before the 
bread is thoroughly baked. 

Remember first the tlirce necessary ingredients in 



good bread: good flour, good yeast, milk or water; then 
the three accessories which are added to make it taste 
better: sugar, salt, shortening. 

The kneading is necessary to make the gluten elastic, 
for without this we could not have spongy bread. If 
possible, let this be done in the home with the bread- 
mixer, leaving the hand-kneading to the end of the 
process when the dough is shaped into loaves. 

Bread Made with Milk or Water 

2 c. boiling water, or 1 tbsp. sugar. 

1 c. milk and 1 c. water. J^ tbsp. salt. 
1 tbsp. butter. J^ yeast cake. 

1 tbsp. lard. 3^ c. lukewarm water. 

About 6 c. sifted flour. 

Place shortening, sugar, and salt in a large bowl, pour 
in the boiling water, or boiling water and scalded milk. 

When the mixture is blood warm, add the dissolved 
yeast cake and 5 c. flour. Stir till thoroughly mixed, 
using a knife or wooden spoon. 

Add remaining flour, mix, turn on a floured board, 
leaving a clean bowl. Knead until the mixture is 
smooth and elastic to the touch, and bubbles may be 
seen under the surface. 

Return to the bowl, cover with a clean cloth and a 
board or tin cover, let it rise over night in a tempera- 
ture of 65° F. Or, use a whole yeast cake and let it rise 
for 2 or 3 h., or until 2)/^ times its original size. 



80 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Turn on floured board, knead, shape in loaves or bis- 
cuits, place in greased pans, having the pans nearly full. 

Let the dough rise to double its size, and bake in a 
hot oven. This will make a large loaf of bread and a 
pan of biscuit. 



What is the protein of wheat called? 
What are the two carbohydrates? 
What are the two chief classes of flour? 
What is the difference between them? 
Describe the appearance of gluten. 
Name three varieties of yeast. 
Which would you take with you far out in the coun- 
try? Why? 

Graham Bread 

2J^ c. boiling water. 1 tbsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. shortening. About 43^ c. white flour. 

^ cake yeast. J^ c. lukewarm water. 

Make a sponge of this over night. In the morning 
add 1 c. molasses and enough Graham floiu- to make a 
stiff batter, about 13^ c. (If very coarse, the flour 
should be sifted.) 

Put in greased pans and let it rise until double in 
bulk. Bajie 1 h. This will make two loaves. 

If very dark molasses is used, add )/^ c. sugar to the 
shortening and salt, and use only J/^ c. molasses in 
morning. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 81 

What is Graham flour? 
Why bake in small rather than large loaves? 
How should you care for the bread when it is baked? 
Why is bread more digestible the day after it is 
baked? 

Quick Bread 

1 pt. warm water or milk (scalded). 

1 tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. sugar. 

2 tsp. shortening( beef fat or lard). 

2 yeast cakes (dissolved in 1 c. of the liquid). 

Flour to make a soft dough. 

Mix and knead like any bread. Put in a warm place 
and watch carefully; when light, kneadj shape in small 
loaves, let rise again until a little more than double in 
size, and bake in a moderate oven 40 to 45 minutes. 
The whole process should not take much over two 
hours. 



Why does this bread rise so much more rapidly? 
Give the signs by which you should know a good loaf 
of bread. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
What causes sourness in bread? 



82 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

THE CARE OF THE BEDROOM 

The only room in which we are likely to pass six to 
ten hours daily, without any change, is our sleeping- 
room. No other room in the whole house should be 
more carefully selected or better ventilated than this. 
The best of all is to sleep out of doors, but only a 
few can do this, and we must try to make the air 
in our rooms as much like outdoor air as we possibly 
can. 

In selecting our sleeping-room let us have a sunny 
exposure, with windows, if possible, on two sides, and 
the space so planned that a bed may fit in without 
standing in front of one window. If we can, let us 
have a hardwood floor, or a painted one, with a few 
rugs that can be easily cleaned; if this is not possible, 
the floor may be covered with a good matting. The 
furnishings should be Ught, simple, and such as may 
be easily cleaned. The walls should be of soft tone, 
and the curtains light, so that the air will pass through 
readily. 

For the bed itself select a light brass or iron frame 
and put all the money you can afford into your mat- 
tress. Whatever kind you select, let it be the best 
possible, but not too soft. Be sure that the spring is 
firm; where this gives too much one does not rest so well. 
Cover the mattress with a case of unbleached muslin 
that can be easily removed and laundered, and place 
a thin washable pad under the sheet. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 83 

Let the sheets be long enough to tuck in securely at 
the bottom and turn over well at the top, and make 
them of firm, well-woven sheeting. Choose several 
light-weight covers rather than one heavy one, using 
blankets whenever you can afford them — wool blank- 
ets, or those that are three-quarters wool. 

Let the spread be simple and light and easily laun- 
dered, and make the pillow-slips long enough to really 
cover the pillows. 



In making the bed, how should you proceed? 

L 

2. 

3. 

4. 

How frequently should the bedding be aired out of 
doors? 

If some one were sick, how would you change the 
bedding? 

What could you use for a simple rest for the back 
when sitting up in bed? 

How would you get ventilation with one window? 

SALADS 

There is no line of cookery in which more care and 
study are required to gain the best results than in salad- 
making. Yet, when understood, nothing is more simple. 



84 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Certain things are essential to success — such as crisp 
lettuce, good oHve oil, a well-made dressing, fresh fruits 
and vegetables, well-prepared meat and fish. 

All lettuce must be well washed, the leaves dried in 
a soft cloth, then placed close to the ice in a cheese- 
cloth, or, if nothing else is at hand, a paper bag. The 
uncooked vegetables must be tender and thoroughly 
chilled; the cooked vegetables cut into attractive shapes, 
when desired, and then kept unbroken; fish should be 
freed from all skin and bone and separated into distinct 
flakes; meat must be diced after being freed from bone, 
fat, and all gristle. 

When using cooked vegetables, or meat and fish, 
mix the French dressing with the prepared ingredients 
a half hour or more before serving. The best result is 
obtained by mixing each kind separately, putting to- 
gether just before serving. 

Always try to make the salad dainty and attractive 
when serving. If in individual form, shape the lettuce 
leaves into cup shapes, and garnish — where possible — 
with some special vegetables, or with olives. 

Remember that the simpler salad-dressings are the 
more wholesome, and should be the ones most com- 
monly used. 

French Dressing 

1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice. Yi tsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. olive oil. Spk. pepper. 

yi tsp. paprika 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 85 

Place the salt and pepper in a bowl, add oil slowly, 
and mix until the salt is dissolved. Then add the 
vinegar gradually, beating with a fork. 

Boiled Dressing 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil. 

1 tsp. sugar. 1 spk. pepper. 

^ tsp. salt. 2 tbsp. strong vinegar. 

\^ tsp. mustard. J^ c. water. 

Mix dry ingredients together. Add to egg and stir. 
Add vinegar and water, then butter, and put in a 
double boiler, stirring until thick. 

This dressing will keep several weeks in a covered jar. 
When ready to use, add sour cream, sweet cream, or 
milk, to thin it to the desired consistency. The pro- 
portions of water and vinegar vary with the strength 
of the vinegar. 

Note. — 1 tsp. of flour and one whole egg may be 
used in place of three yolks. 

Apple and Celery Salad 

2 c. apples, cut in small cubes. 
1 c. celery, cut in small cubes. 
J^ c. walnuts. 

Mix the ingredients together. Moisten with salad 
dressing. Arrange in lettuce-cups, cover with a little 
dressing, and put one-half of a walnut on top of each. 



86 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Salmon Salad 

1 c. fish. 3^ c. celery. Salad-dressing. 

Flake the fish. Wash the celery and cut into very 
thin shces. Mix fish and celery. Add enough salad- 
dressing to thoroughly moisten the fish and celery. 
Toss lightly together with a fork. Heap on crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

Tomato Salad 

Tomatoes. Cucumbers. Salad-dressing. 

1. Place tomatoes in a pan and cover with boiling 
water. Let them stand 5 minutes. Drain off water 
and cover with cold water. 

2. Peel tomatoes, remove thin slice from stem end 
of tomatoes, and remove seeds and part of pulp. 

3. Sprinkle inside with salt, invert, and let stand 3^ h. 

4. Fill tomatoes with thin slices of cucumber and 
tomato, mixed with salad-dressing. 

5. Arrange on lettuce leaves, and put dressing on top. 

* 

Potato Salad 

3 c. cold boiled potatoes. 

1 tbsp. chopped onion, or J^ tsp. onion juice. 

Salt and pepper. 

1 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

}/i c. finely cut celery, or 1 tbsp. celery seed. 

2 hard-cooked eggs. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 87 

1. Cut potatoes into J^ in. cubes and add other 
ingredients. 

2. Pour salad-dressing over all, and garnish with 
the hard-cooked eggs. Separate the eggs and sift the 
yolks, as in egg vermicelli. 



Name some other vegetables that combine well in 
salads. 

Name some fruits that combine well in salads. 

What may be used in place of olive oil in the French 
dressing? 

(' 

FIRST ATOS TO THE INJURED 

In your hygiene study you have touched upon many 
things helpful to others and to yourself in times of 
accident. 

What would you do for a cut on the finger? 

What would you do for a cut on the arm? 

What is best for a simple burn where the skin is 
imbroken? 

What is best for a burn where the skin is broken? 

How can you remove a cinder from the eye? 

What should you do when some one is fainting? 

How can you extinguish flames on clothing? 

What should you do with blazing fat? 

Give a simple remedy for sore throat. 

What would you do for a cold? 



88 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

What is best for a simple sprain? 

How can you prevent a blaek-and-blue spot? 

How remove soreness from a bruise? 

What should not be taken for headache? 

What is done for a rattlesnake bite? 

Give a list of a few things that should always be on 
hand in the home and state what you would use them 
for. 

Make a list of foods suitable in case of illness: 

Liquids. Semi-solids. Solids. 



PUDDINGS 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

1 c. molasses. M tsp. salt. 

1 c. sweet milk. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

3 c. flour. Y2 tsp. nutmeg. 

3^ c. butter. H tsp. cloves. 

1 tsp. soda. Y% tsp. ginger. 

2 tsp. cream of tartar. 1 c. raisins, cut fine. « 

Flour the raisins with a little flour taken from the 
3 cups. Sift the dry materials twice. Add the liquid, 
then the shortening, melted. Last, stir in the fruit. 
Steam 3 h. In small cups, steam ^ h. 

Serve with a liquid sauce or with lemon cream 
sauce. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 89 

Lemon Cream Sauce 

1 c. powdered sugar. 
4 tbsp. butter. 

Grated rind of one lemon. 

2 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Spk. nutmeg. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually; when smooth and 
creamy, add grated rind, juice and nutmeg. Beat 
10 m. Stir for a minute over boiling water before serv- 
ing. Serve on a warm plate. 



Liquid Sauce 

1 c. sugar. 3 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. water. 2 tbsp. butter. 

yi tsp. salt. 

Juice or grated rind of one lemon, or flavoring to taste 
(vanilla or spice). 

Prune Whip 

Yi lb. prunes. 4 egg whites. 

J^ c. confectioners' sugar. 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Stone the cooked prunes, drain well, and press through 
a strainer. Beat the egg whites stiff, beat in the sugar 
gradually, then add the prune pulp, a little at a time, 
beating steadily until all is in. Add the lemon juice, 



yO A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

pile lightly on a platter, place over hot water in the 
oven and brown slightly, or place in baking-dish and 
brown. Serve cold, with a custard poured around the 
whip. The oven must be a moderate one or the whip 
will fall. 

Custard 

4 egg yolks. Spk. salt. 

1 pt. milk. Lemon flavoring. 

3^ c. sugar. 

Make like any soft custard. 



Estimate cost of this dessert. 

Name other fruits that might be used in the same way. 

Orange Cream 

3 good oranges. 

Y2 good lemon. 

3^ oz. gelatine (soften in the cold water). 

yi c. cold water. 

Add enough hot water to make one pint of liquid, 
including the juice from the oranges and lemon. Beat 
until gelatine is dissolved, strain, cool until of the con- 
sistency of thick cream, beat in 8 tbsp. of whipped 
cream and about \^ c. powdered sugar; beat well and 
turn into prepared mold. Serve cold. 



'A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 91 

Name the fruits which could be used in place of the 
oranges. 

What could be substituted for the whipped cream? 
What kinds of gelatine may be used? 

FROZEN DISHES 

Some of our best and simplest desserts are the sher- 
bets, ices, and creams. An ice is simply fruit juice, 
water, and sugar, frozen together. A sherbet is, usu- 
ally, the same as an ice with the addition of stiff egg 
whites. A cream should be pure cream, flavoring, and 
sugar, or a rich custard with cream added, in equal 
quantities. This last combination is the richest of all. 

In packing the freezer use three parts of ice to one of 
salt. See that the crank works easily before beginning 
to pack, and test occasionally while filling with the ice 
and salt. Do not fill the can more than two-thirds full 
of the ice cream or sherbet, otherwise it will run over 
before it is frozen. Turn very slowly at first, stopping 
once or twice; when too hard to turn, remove dasher, 
pack down, cover closely, repack with salt and ice, and 
allow it to stand several hours to harden. 

Fruit Sherbet 

3 oranges. 3 c. sugar. 

3 lemons. 3 c. water. 

1 banana. 2 egg whites. 

Yi can apricots. 



92 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Press juice and pulp through a strainer, adding water 
to aid in the sifting. Add the sugar, stir until dissolved, 
and freeze. When it begins to stiffen, add the stiff 
whites. 

Strawberry Ice 

1 pt. strawberry juice 
ly^ c. sugar 
1 c. water. 



boil together; cool. 



Juice of 2 lemons. 

Mix fruit juice and syrup, add more sugar if neces- 
sary, pack and freeze. 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 

1 c. sugar. 2 c. milk. Juice of 2 lemons. 

Dissolve sugar in the milk and freeze. When thick 
add the lemon juice and freeze again. 

Fruit Punch I 

4 c. cold water. 

2 c. sugar. 

2 c. chopped pineapple (or 1 qt. can). 

1 c. orange juice. 

3^ c. lemon juice. 

Boil water, sugar, and pineapple 20 m. 
Add fruit juice; cool, strain, and dilute with ice water. 
Any of the following fruits may be added: 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 93 

3^ box berries of any kind, (mashed through a vege- 
table press). 
2 bananas, sliced or mashed. 
J^ c. grape juice. 

1 c. fresh cherries, stoned and sliced. 

2 ripe peaches peeled, stoned, and mashed. 

Fruit Punch II 

2 c. water. 34 lb. candied cherries. 

2 c. sugar. 1 doz. strawberries. 

Chopped rind of 1 lemon. 1 pineapple grated, or 
Juice of 8 lemons. 1 qt. can. 

1 banana. 2 qts. ApoUinaris. 

Boil water, sugar, and lemon rind 10 m. Strain. 
When cool add the lemon juice, pineapple, and other 
fruit, sliced. 

Place a large square of ice in a punch-bowl. Pour 
over this the mixture, adding the ApoUinaris water when 
ready to serve. 

MENUS 

Make out three breakfast menus. Plan for four 
in the family and make the cost per person 15f5 for 
the first meal and 20)^ for the remaining two. 

Make out three dinner menus of two courses. 

Make out three dinner menus of three courses. 

Make out two dinner menus of four courses. 



94 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Estimate the cost in each case. 
Plan for a family of four. 
Allow 25^ per person in the first set. 
Allow 35j^ per person in the second set. 
Allow 50f5 per person in the third set. 



INDEX 



Abbreviations, table of, 4, 5. 
Accidents, First Aid in, 87, 88. 
Apple Sauce, 12. 
Apples, Baked, 13. 
Apricots, Dried, 14. 
Aprons, size and material of, 3. 

Baking Powdeb, rules for use 
of, 66. 

Biscuits, 67. 
Barley Gruel, 24. 
Batters, 65. 
Beans, food value of, 60. 

Spanish, 60, 61. 

Lima, 61. 
Bedroom, 82, 83. 
Beef, 46. 

cuts of, 48. 

Tea, 49, 50. 

Extract, 50. 

Stew, 52, 53. 
Beefsteak, broiled, 51. 

Pan-broiled, 51, 52. 
Bonbons, 73, 74. 
Bread, Quick, 66, 67, 81. 

Boston Brown, 70. 

the making of good, 78, 79. 

made with irdlk or water, 79. 

Graham, 80. 
Broth, Mutton, 50. 
Brown Bread, Boston, 70. 
Butter, 42, 43. 
Butter-scotch, 73. 



Cake, rules for, 70, 71. 

Plain, 71. 

Sponge, 71. 
Candy, Nut Brittle, 15. 

Fudge, 15, 16. 

Syrup, 16, 68. 

Fondant, 73. 

Butter-scotch, 73. 

Bonbons, 73, 74. 
Carrots, creamed, 31. 
Cereals, 21. 

composition of, 21, 22. 

rules for cooking, 22. 

Gruels of, 23, 24. 
Cheese, Cottage, 42. 
China, washing, 4. 
Chocolate, how to make, 11. 
Cocoa, how to make, 12. 
Codfish, creamed, 60. 
Coffee, care of, 8. 

how to make boiled, 8, 9. 

how to make filtered, 9. 
Cookery room, order and 

neatness in, 3. 
Cookies, 74, 75. 
Cooking utensils, care of, 3. 

washing, 4. 
Cormneal Muffins, 69. 
Corn Soup, 45. 
Cornstarch Pudding, 20, 21. 
Cottage Cheese, 42 
Cottage Pie, 54. 
Cranberry Jelly, 13. 



96 



INDEX 



Croutons, 49. 
Custard, rules for, 40. 

Sauce, 41. 

Baked, 41. 

Boiled, 90. 

Dishes, instructions for wash- 
ing, 4. 
Dressing, French, 84, 85. 

Boiled, 85. 
Dried Fruits, 14. 
Dumplings, 53, 54. 

Eggs, food value of, 37. 

how to judge fresh, 37. 

Soft-cooked, 37. 

Hard-cooked, 37. 

Poached, 37, 38. 

Scrambled, 38, 39. 

Light Omelet of, 39. 

French Omelet of, 39, 40. 

Vermicelli, 40. 
Equivalents, table of, 5. 
Experimental formulas, 20, 
65, 66. 

Fats, review questions on, 56. 
Fire, how to build a, 6. 
First Aid to the Injured, 87, 

88. 
Fish, 57. 

Boiled, 58. 

Fried, 58. 

Baked, 58, 59. 

Creamed, 60. 
Fish Balls, 59. 

Flannel fabrics, how to wash, 
63. 



Flour Gruel, 23. 
Fondant, 73. ' 
Food, three classes of, 10. 
Frozen Dishes, 91, 92. 
Fruit, 13-15. 
Dried, 14. 
Fruit Cookies, 75. 
Fruit Punch, 92, 93. 
Fruit Sherbet, 91, 92. 
Fudge, 15, 16. 

Game, 47. 

Garbage, care and disposal oi, 

17, 18. 
Gas Range, instructions for 

hghting, 6. 
Gelatine, 56. 
Gingerbread, 72. 
Ginger Snaps, 74. 
Glassware, washing, 4. 
Graham Muffins, 69. 
Griddle Cakes, 67, 68. 

Sour milk, 68. 
Gruel, 22. 

Indian Meal, 23. 

Flour, 23. 

Oatmeal, 23. 

Barl6y, 24. 

Hash, 55. 

Housekeeping, suggestions for, 
3, 17-19. 

Laundry work in,. 62, 63. 
Hygiene, 75, 76. 

care of bedrooms, 82, 83. 

Ices, 91-93. 

Indian Meal Gruel, 23. 



INDEX 



97 



Injured, First Aid to, 87, 
88. 

Javellb Wateh, 64. 
Jelly, Cranberry, 13. 

Lemon, 56. 
Junket, 43. 

Knives and Forks, care in 
washing, 4. 

Lamb, 46. 

Laundry, method of work in, 

62, 63. 
removal of stains on clothes 

in, 63, 64. 
Left-over dishes, 54. 
Lemon Cream Sauce, 89. 
Lemon Jelly, 56. 
Lemon Milk Sherbet, 92. 

Marmalade, 77, 78. 
Measurements, table of, 5, 6. 
Meat, food value of, 46. 

varieties of, 46, 47. 

Minced, 56. 
Meat Cakes, broiled, 52. 
Menus, 93, 94. 
Metals, how to clean, 18, 

19. 
Milk, 10. 

care of, 10. 

composition of, 11. 

signs of good, 42. 

Junket or thick, 43. 
Muffins, Cornmeal, 69. 

Graham, 69. 

Wheat, 69, 70. 



Mutton, 46. 
Broth, 50. 
Scalloped, 55. 

Nut Brittle, 15. 

Oatmeal Gruel, 23, 
Omelet, light, 39. 
French, 39, 40. 
Orange Cream, 90, 91. 
Orange Marmalade, 77. 

Peaches, dried, 14. 
Peach Marmalade, 77. 
Peas, Green, 31, 32. 
Pie, Cottage, 54. 
Pineapple Cream, 21. 
Popovers, 65. 
Pork, 46. 
Potato, Boiled, 27. 

Mashed, 28. 

Cakes, 28. 

Baked, 28. 

Creamed, 29. 

Soup, 44. 
Poultry, 46, 47. 
Prunes, 14. 
Prune Whip, 89, 90. 
Pudding, Cornstarch, 20, 21. 

Steamed Fruit, 88. 

Range, how to light Gaa, 6. 

care of, 18. 
Raspberry Cream, 57. 
Refrigerator, care of, 17. 
Review questions on: water, 

7, 8; tea, 9; coffee, 9; 

milk, 11; chocolate, 12; 



INDEX 



cocoa, 12; fruit, 14, 15; 
candy, 16, 74; house- 
keeping, 19; cornstarch, 
21; cereals, 24; rice, 26; 
potatoes, 29; eggs, 38; 
custards, 42; soups, 46, 
50; meats, 47, 52; fats, 
56; gelatine, 57; fish, 59; 
beans, 61; laundrywork, 
64; .baking powder, 68; 
bread, 70, 80, 81; cake, 
71, 72; gingerbread, 72; 
hygiene, 76; marmalades, 
77, 78; bedrooms, 83; 
salads, 87; first aid to 
injiu'ed, 87, 88; menus, 
93, 94. 
Rhubarb Marmalade, 77. 
Rice, 24. 

Boiled, 24, 25. 

manner of washing, 25. 

Molded, 25. 

Balls, 55, 56. 

Salad, 83, 87. 

Apple and celery, 85. 

Salmon, 86. 

Tomato, 86. 

Potato, 86. 
Sauce, Apple, 12. 

White, 31. 

Custard, 41. 

Lemon Cream, 89. 

Liquid, 89. 
Service, 7, 32, 33. 
Setting the Table, 7, 32. 
Silk fabrics, how to wash, 
63. 



Silver, washing, 4. 

Sink, care of, 17. 

Soiled clothes, rules for liaEd 

Hng, 62, 63. 
Soup, Cream, 43, 44. 

Potato, 44. 

Mock Bisque, 44. 

Corn, 45. 

Tomato, 45. 

stock, 48, 49. 
Spinach, 30. 
Sponge Cake, 71, 72. 
Stains, removal of, 63, 64. 
Starch, use of, in laundry, 62. 
Stew, Beef, 52, 53. 
Stove Blacking, use of, 18. 
Strawberry Ice, 92. 
Syrup, 16, 68. 

Table, instructions for setting 
the, 7. 

Breakfast, 32. 

Dinner, 32. 

rules for serving at, 33. 
Tea, care of, 8. 

how to brew, 8. 
Tomato, Stewed, 29, 30. 

Scalloped, 30. 

Soup, 45. 

Veal, 46. 
Vegetables, 26-31. 
preparation of, 26, 27. 

Waitress, duties of, at table, 

33. 
Water, 7. 
Wheat Muffins, 69, 70. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



;A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



■•%' 



A HANDBOOK OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 

# 

ETTA PROCTOR FLAGG 




Class __/_.__: 

Book ~h C 



Copyright N°_ 

COPYRIGHT DEPOSE 



A HANDBOOK 



OF 



HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK 



OF 



HOME ECONOMICS 



BY 



ETTA PROCTOR FLAGG 

SUPERVISOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN THE 
LOS ANGELES PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

1912 



^■*»' 



>A 



Copyright, 1912, 
By Little, Brown, and Company. 



All rights reserved 
Published, January, 1912 



1 s 



llrmtfrs 
J. Parkhill & Co., Boston, U.S.A. 



©CI.A303882 



PREFACE 

The plan in this little book has been to give a simple 
basis for the pupil to work from, leaving the teacher 
free to present the lesson in her own way. The princi- 
pal points to be brought out are suggested by the 
questions at the end of each lesson. These questions 
are to be answered by the pupil in the spare moments 
which are so often wasted in the course of an ordinary 
cookery period. 

This course may be completed in one school year, 
or in two, according to the frequency of the lessons. 
The book is divided into two parts for the convenience 
of classes which devote two years to the subject. 



PART I 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME 
ECONOMICS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOUSEKEEPING 

Let each pupil provide herself with two large, plain, 
white aprons made from cambric, long cloth, or linen; 
avoid lawn because it wears so short a time and rumples 
so easily. In addition to the aprons, every girl should 
have her own small hand- towel and cookery holder; the 
towel need not be more than eighteen inches long, and 
the holder should not be over five inches square. 

When working in the cookery room, keep the wrists 
free from bracelets and the fingers free from rings; let 
the hair be neat and away from the face. 

Before beginning the lesson see that the hands are 
thoroughly washed and the nails well cleaned. Keep 
the hand-towel fastened at the waist, ready for imme- 
diate use. 

When the lesson is over, fold both apron and towel 
neatly and place in the locker assigned. Before leav- 
ing the class-room be sure that all utensils are in perfect 
order and, if possible, that your notes are all placed in 
your text-book. 



4 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Dish-Washing 

Clean all plates and dishes; if they are greasy, use 
brown paper; if not, scrape with a rubber scraper or 
with a case-knife. 

Arrange neatly and in the most convenient manner. 
Use hot, soapy water, filling the dishpan about one- 
third full. Change the water frequently if many dishes 
are to be washed. Rinse all dishes with clear, hot 
water and wipe with clean towels free from lint. 

Wash glassware first. If an extra polish is desired, 
wipe from the soapy water. 

After the glassware, wash the silver, then the china, 
and then the cooking utensils. 

Take fresh, hot water and wash the towels thor- 
oughly, rinse in clear water, stretch carefully and hang 
to dry; fold the dishcloth evenly and hang to dry. 

Be very careful to keep bone, ivory, or wooden handles 
of knives or forks out of the water, and make sure, 
when washing a Dover egg-beater, that only the part 
below the wheel touches the water. 

If a saucepan has become burned place a few tea- 
spoons of baking soda in the pan, fill with warm water 
and let it stand for several hours or over night. 

Abbreviations 

tbsp. stands for tablespoon, qt. stands for quart, 
tsp. stands for teaspoon. pt. stands for pint. 

c. stands for cup. lb. stands for pound. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 5 

m. stands for minute. oz. stands for ounce, 

h. stands for hour. spk. stands for speck. 

Table of Equivalents 

3 tsp. equal 1 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. equal 34 c. or y% gill. 
2 gills equal 1 c. 

2 c. equal 1 pt. 

2 pts. equal 1 qt. 

4 qts. equal 1 gal. 

4 c. flour equal 1 lb. 

2 c. solid butter equal 1 lb. 

2 c. granulated sugar equal 1 lb. 

3 c. meal equal 1 lb. 

2 c. solid meat equal 1 lb. 
2 tbsp. butter equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. sugar equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. flour equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. liquid equal 1 oz. 

Measurements 

Flour, soda, meal, powdered, or confectioners' sugar 
should be sifted before measuring. 

A cup means a cup filled level with the top. 

A spoonful means a level spoonful. 

To get this level spoonful, use the back of a case- 
knife, drawing it smoothly across the spoon. 

One half spoonful means a spoonful divided length- 
wise. 



6 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

One fourth spoonful means a spoonful divided length- 
wise and then crosswise. 

A salt spoon means one-fourth of a teaspoon. 

When measuring dry material by the cup, fill lightly 
with a spoon without shaking it down. 

FIRE-BUILDING 
To Build a Wood Fire 

Remove ashes and open drafts. 

Blacken, beginning at the back. 

Place thin layer of crumpled paper on bottom of 
fire box. 

Arrange a loose layer of light wood over the paper. 

Place hard wood over this lightly. 

Polish while stove is heating. 

When fire is burning well, close oven-damper and 
check the drafts. 

To Build a Coal Fire 

Build like a wood fire, adding coal gradually until 
the fire box is three-fourths full. 

To Light a Gas Range 

Turn the gas on freely before lighting. 

Keep the blaze free from yellow flame and as low 
as is allowable with the heat required. 

In lighting the oven be sure that there is no free gas 
to cause an explosion. (Usually it is wiser to open the 
oven door before lighting.) 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 7 

SETTING THE TABLE 

Dust the table. Put on the silence-cloth, which 
must be perfectly smooth. 

Place tablecloth over this, center of cloth over center 
of table. Use clean linen of as fine a quality as can 
be afforded. Have the cloth long enough and wide 
enough to hang well around the table. 

Decorate by placing in the center of the table a vase 
of flowers, a fern, or a dish of fruit. 

Place plates, right side up, one at each end; then at 
the sides. Have plenty of space between each plate, 
and plates opposite one another if possible. 

Place knife on right side of plate with sharp 
edge of knife toward plate, one inch from edge of 
table. 

Place forks on left side with prongs turned up, one 
inch from edge of table. 

Place teaspoons at right of knife, bowls of spoons 
turned up. 

Place tumbler, top up, at end of knife. 

Place butter, or bread and butter plate, in front of 
plate toward the left. 

Place napkins, neatly folded, at the left of fork. 

WATER 

Place 3^2 c. water in saucepan and heat slowly. What 
rises at first? 

What collects on the bottom and sides of pan? 



8 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

When is the water simmering? How can you tell, 
and what is the temperature? 

Give the temperature of boiling water. 
How do you know when it is boiling? 
What is "hard" water? 
What is "soft" water? 

TEA AND COFFEE 

Keep tea and coffee in closely covered jars or cans. 

Use enamel or nickel coffee-pots. 

Use enamel, nickel, or earthenware teapots. 

Use only freshly boiled water in making tea and 
coffee, and scald the teapot or coffee-pot thoroughly 
before using. 

Tea 

1 tsp. tea. 

1 c. boiling water. 

Put the tea in a scalded teapot and pour the boiling 
water over it. 

Steep 5 m. in a warm place. Strain, and serve either 
hot or iced. 

Boiled Coffee 

4 tbsp. coffee, ground. 
13^ c. boiling water. 
4 egg shells, broken fine. 
34 c. cold water. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 9 

Mix coffee, shells, and half of the cold water. Add 
boiling water, boil three minutes and add remaining 
cold water. Let stand 10 minutes, pour out a little to 
clear the spout, and serve. 

Filtered Coffee 

Yi c. coffee, powdered. 
3 c. boiling water. 

Use a coffee-pot with an inside strainer. Place the 
powdered coffee in the strainer and add the boiling 
water gradually. Keep the coffee-pot covered while 
the water is filtering. Serve at once, without cooling. 



Where is tea found? 

What part of the tea plant is used? 

How is tea prepared for market? 

Name four different varieties of tea, with prices for 
each. 

Why use freshly boiled water in making tea? 

Why not boil the tea? 

When would you drink tea? 

Where does coffee grow? 

Why are tea and coffee injurious? 

In what form is coffee least injurious? 

Name the two best varieties of coffee, with price per 
pound. 



10 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

FOOD 

The food which we eat may be divided into three 
distinct classes: proteins, carbohydrates, fats. These 
will be studied in detail as we advance in the work. 
Try to remember now that protein foods are the chief 
sources of tissue and muscle, and that the carbohydrates 
and fats give us energy and fat. 

MILK 

The first food that children take is milk, and for the 
young child this seems an almost perfect food. Since 
all young children must live on it, it is necessary for 
us to know how to tell good milk and how to care for 
it. It is very difficult to get fresh, pure milk in the 
large cities, and nothing that comes into the house 
requires more care. 

Care of Milk 

Select the best dairy you can find. Wipe milk bottles 
when brought into the house. Place in refrigerator or 
cold closet. If turned from bottles, place in glass, agate- 
ware, earthenware, granite, or aluminum, and keep 
covered. If doubtful about the purity, scald. To 
scald the milk, heat over hot water; when a bead-like 
ring forms around the edge, it is scalded. Remove 
directly. Greater heat makes the milk less digestible. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 11 

Composition of Milk 

Water, about 87%. 

Mineral matter. 

_. . f casein, 
rrotem „ 

I albumen. 

Fat. 

Carbohydrate. Sugar. 



What is the scum that rises to the surface of milk 
when it is scalded? 

What is pasteurized milk? 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 

Chocolate 

\}/2 to 2 squares of Baker's chocolate. 
4 tbsp. sugar. 
1 c. boiling water. 
3 c. scalded milk. 
Spk. salt. 

1. Melt the chocolate over hot water, add sugar and 
salt, and pour the boiling water over the mixture, 
stirring constantly. 

2. Place directly over the fire and cook 5 m. 

3. Add to the hot milk. 

4. Beat 1 m. with Dover egg-beater and serve. For 
special occasions 1 tsp. vanilla may be added, and 
whipped cream may be served with the chocolate. 



12 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Cocoa 

2 tbsp. cocoa. 2 c. boiling water. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. scalded milk. 

1 spk. salt. 

(A larger proportion of milk may be used.) 

1. Mix cocoa, sugar, and salt with the water, and 
boil 5 m. 

2. Stir this into the hot milk and serve. 



From what are chocolate and cocoa obtained? 
What is the difference between the two? 
Which is the more easily digested? Why? 
Name the most nourishing part in a cup of cocoa. 
Reduce the chocolate recipe to 1 c. 
Reduce the cocoa recipe to 1 c. 
How can you prevent the thick scum from rising to 
the surface of a cup of chocolate or cocoa? 



Apple Sauce 
6 or 8 apples. Y% c. sugar. 

1. Pare, core, and cut the apples into small pieces. 

2. Cook the apples with enough water to keep them 
from burning. When soft, add the sugar and remove 
from the fire. 

3. Cinnamon or nutmeg to suit taste may be added 
for variety. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 13 

Baked Apples 

Wash and core apples. Place in baking-dish, fill 
center with sugar, and cover the bottom of the baking- 
dish with hot water. Bake until soft. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 c. cranberries. 

1 c. boiling water. 

2 c. sugar. 

1. Look over cranberries and wash them. Cook 
cranberries and water 20 m. 

2. Press through a strainer. Add the sugar and 
cook 5 m. 

3. Pour into cold, wet molds, or glasses. 



Name the two classes of fruits. 

Give the general composition. 

What is the chief food value? 

What fruits are included under the name citrus? 

What gives them this name? 

Name two varieties of good cooking apples. 

Give the average cost per pound. 

How many average-sized apples make a pound? 

Where do most of the cranberries come from? 

When are they at their best? 

What is the average cost per pound? 



14 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

What fruits are more wholesome cooked than un- 
cooked? 

What fruits may be exposed safely on the public 
streets? 
Why? 

DRIED FRUITS 
Prunes 

Wash thoroughly, soak over night, and cook slowly 
until the skins are tender. When nearly done, sweeten 
slightly. Stick cinnamon, or a little juice and rind of 
lemon, may be used to vary the flavor. 

Peaches 

Wash the dried peaches carefully, cover with water 
and let stand over night. In the morning cook slowly 
until tender; then add a very small amount of sugar. 

Apricots 

Treat in the same way as the others, but add more 
sugar. Prunes and apricots may be mixed together, 
half and half, and treated as either one would be treated 
separately. 



What is the difference in composition between the 
fresh and dried fruits? 
How is this lack supplied? 
Why is the long cooking desirable? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 15 

Name three dried fruits rich in sugar. What per 
cent of sugar do they contain? 

How are fruits dried? 

What do we need to be very careful about in their 
preparation? 

At what season of the year would you use dried fruits 
freely? 



Nut Brittle 

1 c. sugar. 
% to 1 c. nuts, shelled and broken in pieces. 

1. Put sugar in saucepan to heat, and when it begins 
to melt on the bottom of the saucepan stir it until it 
becomes a thin, light brown syrup with no lumps. 
(Keep the sugar stirred down from the sides of the pan.) 

2. Add nuts immediately and pour quickly on a 
buttered plate or platter; mark in squares as soon as 
the knife does not stick to the candy. (A tin plate need 
not be buttered.) When cold, break in pieces. 

Fudge 

2 c. sugar. 2 tbsp. butter. 

Yz to 1 c. milk. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 to l^ sq. unsweetened chocolate, or 4 tbsp. cocoa. 

1. Heat milk and sugar and, when sugar is dissolved, 
add the chocolate. Boil until it reaches the soft-ball 
stage, stirring until chocolate is melted. 



16 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

2. Remove from fire, add the butter and vanilla, 
and beat until creamy and thickened. Pour quickly 
into a greased tin. When firm, cut in squares. 

Syrup 

2 c. sugar. J^ c - water. 

Place in saucepan and stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Boil slowly, without stirring, until a light syrup is 
made. Remove and cool. Color with caramel and 
flavor with lemon, if desired. 



What is the price of confectioners' sugar? 

How many cups of granulated sugar make a pound? 

How many cups of confectioners' sugar make a pound? 

How do you caramelize sugar? 

Estimate the cost of the nut brittle and give it in 
itemized form. 

Estimate the cost of the fudge in the same way. 

To what class of foods does sugar belong? 

What does it do in the body? 

Why should we not eat large quantities of sugar in 
any form? 

Where is beet sugar made? 

In what section do we find maple sugar? 

How is maple sugar made? 

What is the price of granulated sugar? 

What does cane sugar come from, and how is it made? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 17 

HOUSEKEEPING 
Care of Refrigerator 

Look over the refrigerator daily to see that no food 
is left to spoil. Food with a strong flavor, or hot food, 
should not be put into the refrigerator. 

Once a week every part of the refrigerator should be 
washed with a solution of washing-soda, a dish mop 
being used. Rinse, wipe as dry as possible, and air 
thoroughly before using again. Flush the waste-pipe 
with the soda solution. 

Care of the Sink 

Always pour dishwater through a sink strainer, and 
put the refuse left in strainer in garbage pail. 

When dish-washing is finished, wash every part of 
the sink and sink strainer with hot, soapy water. Wash 
above and around the sink, and use a scrubbing brush 
and a skewer when necessary. 

Flush the sink with boiling water every day, and 
about once a week with a strong, hot solution of washing- 
soda. (Cover 1 c. washing-soda with 6 qts. boiling 
water and let remain on the fire until all the soda is 
dissolved. Pour this, boiling hot, into the pipes, using 
2 to 3 qts. for each sink.) 

Garbage 

Garbage should be burned, or should be put into 
large pails to be collected several times a week. These 



18 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

garbage pails should be cleaned thoroughly with the 
hose, after emptying, and dried well in the sun. When 
necessary, a strong, hot solution of washing-soda should 
be used to clean them. 

Scraps in the kitchen should be put into a granite- 
ware pail. This scrap pail should be emptied into the 
garbage pail every day. It should be washed as any 
other dish and thoroughly dried. Once a week it should 
be washed with the soda solution. 

Care of the Range 

When grease or other material is spilled on the range 
while cooking is being done, rub off at once with paper. 

Beside cleaning out the ashes from the range every 
day, the space above and below the oven should be 
cleaned out about once a month, as the soot and ashes 
collected there prevent the proper heating of the oven. 

Never blacken the range without cleaning it first. 
Moisten some stove polish with cold water and rub it 
over the range with a brush or cloth. Blacken when 
stove is cold. 

Use a dry brush for polishing, rubbing very briskly. 
Begin at front of range when the stove is warm. 

To Clean Metals 

Always wash articles carefully before cleaning. After 
cleaning, wash in hot water containing ammonia, and 
dry carefully. The following cleansing agents may be 
used: 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 19 

Tin. — Sapolio or silver-polish; whiting, moistened 
with ammonia, alcohol, or water. 

Steel Knives. — Brick or Sapolio. 

Silver. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with 
ammonia, alcohol, or water. 

Gold. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with am- 
monia, alcohol, or water. 

Copper. — Vinegar and salt, then ammonia. 

Brass. — Vinegar and salt, then ammonia. 

Zinc. — Whiting moistened with vinegar, or powdered 
pumice. 

Iron. — Rub with oil, then scour with ashes or pumice- 
stone. 

Nickel. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with 
ammonia, alcohol, or water. 



What is the difference between an ice-box and a 
refrigerator? 
Which requires the more ice? 
Why? 

How may you keep the ice from melting rapidly? 
Why should you frequently flush the sink-pipes? 
How should you care for a gas range? 
Name a standard silver-polish. 
Which is the cheapest silver-polish? 



20 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Experiments 

Mix 1 tsp. cornstarch with 34 c - cold water. State 
result. 

Mix 1 tsp. cornstarch with 34 c. boiling water. State 
result. 

Mix 2 tsp. cornstarch with Y% c - c °ld water, and stir 
into 34 c - boiling water. State result. 

Taste this mixture; then boil 15 m. and taste again. 
What difference do you notice? 

Mix 2 tsp. cornstarch with 4 tsp. sugar, and stir 
into 3^ c. boiling water. State result. 

Cream 1 tsp. flour with 1 tsp. butter, and stir into 
Y% c. boiling water. State result. 



Cornstarch Pudding 

1 pt. milk. 1 sq. chocolate. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 1 spk. salt. 

4 tbsp. cornstarch. 34 c - sugar. 

1. Fill mold with cold water. 

2. Scald milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, 
sugar, and enough cold milk to make a smooth paste. 

3. Pour the hot milk over this, stir, return to the 
double boiler and cook 30 m., stirring all the time 
until thick, and occasionally afterwards. 

4. Remove from the fire, add flavoring, and pour 
into the mold. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 21 

5. Chocolate may be melted over hot water and added 
when the cornstarch begins to thicken. 
Serve cold, with sugar and cream, or milk. 

Pineapple Cream 

2 c. milk. 

3 tbsp. cornstarch. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 
Spk. salt. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 

4 tbsp. grated pineapple. 

Cook as for cornstarch pudding; remove from fire 
and fold in lightly the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, 
and the grated pineapple. Serve cold with cream. 



To what class of foods does cornstarch belong? 
What is its special use in the body? 

CEREALS 

The most important cereal food products are those 
prepared from wheat, corn, rice, and oats. 

Composition 

"Cereals contain all the food principles; they aver- 
age about two-thirds carbohydrates, one-tenth protein, 
one-tenth water, and they contain a little fat and min- 
eral matter." 



22 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Their chief value, however, lies in their starch com- 
position, and because of this they require thorough 
cooking. 



Rules for Cooking 

Allow 34 tsp. salt to 1 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. rolled cereal to 2 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. coarse cereal to 3 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. fine cereal to 4 c. boiling water. 

Add salt to water and stir in cereal with a fork. Cook 
directly over the fire for five minutes, stirring constantly, 
then place in double boiler or fireless cooker. 

Cook the coarse grains 7 or 8 h. 

Cook the rolled grains in double boiler 45 or 60 m. 

Cook the fine grains in double boiler 30 or 45 m. 



Gruels 

In many cases of sickness the patient is unable to 
take any solid food, and a gruel is prescribed by the 
physician. This is nothing but a cereal cooked with a 
much larger proportion of water; usually we use one 
tablespoonful of the cereal to one cup of water or milk, 
and cook very thoroughly. The gruel is then strained, 
seasoned with salt, and served very hot. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 23 

Indian Meal Gruel 

4 tbsp. yellow corn meal. 4 c. boiling water. 

Blend meal with a little cold water and stir into boil- 
ing water. Boil gently 2 hrs. Salt to taste. Sweeten if 
necessary, and add milk if desired. Strain, and serve 
hot. 

Flour Gruel 

1 c. milk. Spk. salt. 

1 tbsp. flour. 1 doz. raisins. 

Stone and quarter raisins, then add water to cover 
them; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. 
Add to gruel just before serving. 

Gruel : Mix the flour with a little cold milk and stir 
into scalded milk. Cook in a double boiler Y h., first 
boiling well over the fire. Add salt and raisins; strain 
and serve. 

Note. — Do not use the raisins if the patient has 
bowel trouble. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

2 tbsp. rolled oats. 
1 c. boiling water. 
J4 tsp. salt. 

Boil Y2 h. or longer, strain, thin with hot milk, and 
serve. 



24 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Barley Gruel 

1 tbsp. barley flour. 
1 c. water. 
34 tsp. salt. 

Mix flour with a little cold water, stir into boiling 
water, boil 30 m., thin with hot milk, strain, and serve. 



Why serve cereals stiff enough to chew? 

What fruits are most satisfactory to serve with them? 

Why not acid fruits? 

Why cook at first directly over the fire? 

Which cereals are the more difficult to digest? 

What is the advantage in buying cereals by the pack- 
age? What is the disadvantage? 

Name those that may be bought in bulk, and give 
the difference in price per pound. 

RICE 

Rice contains more starch and less fat than any 
other grain. It is a good food for people in tropical 
countries and is very easily digested. It should be 
combined with eggs, milk, or meat. 

Boiled Rice 

3 qts. boiling water. 
1 c. well washed rice. 
1 tbsp. salt. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 25 

To wash rice well, put into a strainer and set in a 
deep dish of cold water. Rub the rice, and lift the 
strainer in and out of the water, changing the water 
until it is clear. 

Drain, drop the rice into the boiling water slowly, 
and lift up grains of rice from bottom of pan with a 
fork until the water is boiling rapidly again. Cook 20 
m. to Yi h., or until soft, and add the salt when nearly 
done. 

Drain in the strainer and dry in an open oven, or 
leave in stewpan, cover with napkin, and set back on 
stove to steam and become dry. 

Save water in which the rice is boiled and use for 
soup, gravy, or rice pudding. 

Molded Rice 

1 c. well washed rice. 

2 c. hot milk. 

1 c. boiling water. 
1 tsp. salt. 

Scald milk in a double boiler, add rice, boiling water 
and salt, cover and let cook 45 m., or until kernels are 
soft. When cooked, uncover, that the steam may 
escape. (More water and less milk may be used.) 

Place a layer of rice in cup. 

Add layer of prepared dates, another layer of rice. 
Press firmly together. Turn from cups and serve with 
sugar and cream or milk. 



26 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Where does rice grow freely? 

To what class of foods does it belong? 

What vegetables may we substitute for it? 

How does it differ from the potato in composition? 

If used as a cereal, what proportions of water to rice 
would be necessary? 

Name three different ways in which it may be 
served. 

What is the average price per pound? 

Estimate cost of the molded rice recipe. 



VEGETABLES 

Select vegetables carefully. Wash or scrub thor- 
oughly, and if wilted, soak well before using. Choose 
those of medium size rather than large; buy when in 
season and use freely. 



Preparation 

Asparagus. — Wash, cut in inch pieces, or leave 
whole. 

Beans, shell. — Shell and wash. 

Beans, string. — Remove ends and string; cut in 
inch pieces. 

Beets. — Scrub well, but do not cut. 

Brussels sprouts. — Remove outside leaves and 
stand in salted water 20 m. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 27 

Cabbage. — Remove outside leaves; cut in large 
pieces; remove core; wash twice, and drain. 

Cauliflower. — Wash; remove outside leaves; stand 
upside down in salted water 20 m. 

Carrots. — Wash and scrape off the thin skin. 

Com. — Husk; remove silk and wash. 

Onions. — Peel and wash. 

Parsnips. — Wash and scrub. 

Peas. — Shell and wash. 

Potatoes. — Wash and pare; make a thin paring. 

Summer squash. — Wash, and cut in small pieces. 

Spinach. — Remove tough stems and wilted leaves. 
Wash in five waters. 

Turnips. — Wash and pare; make a thin paring. 



Boiled Potatoes 

Select potatoes of medium size. Wash thoroughly, 
using a vegetable brush, and pare as thinly as possible, 
leaving them in cold water until ready to cook. 

Cook in boiling, salted water, covered, until a fork 
pierces them easily (from 20 to 25 m.). Allow 1 tbsp. 
salt to 7 potatoes. The boiling water should cover the 
potatoes. 

When done, drain off the water and shake the pan 
until the potatoes are dry and mealy. 

Set on back of stove to keep warm, covered with a 
folded napkin or clean towel. Serve uncovered. 



28 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Mashed Potatoes 

1 pt. mashed potatoes. 

3 tbsp. hot milk or more. 

2 tbsp. butter. 
V2 tsp. salt. 

1 spk. pepper. 

Cook potatoes as directed above and, when dry, 
mash at once in the pan in which they were cooked. 

Add milk, butter, and seasonings, and beat with fork 
until white and creamy. 

Reheat; pile lightly in a hot dish and serve uncovered. 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potato into small round cakes 
and roll in flour. Butter a hot frying-pan, put in cakes, 
brown one side, turn and brown the other side, adding 
butter as needed to prevent burning. Remove to hot 
platter and serve. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select smooth, medium-sized potatoes and scrub 
them well with a brush. 

Bake in shallow pan on rack of a hot oven until 
soft, about 45 m. Turn occasionally. Serve at once 
in an uncovered dish. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 29 

Creamed Potatoes 

1 tbsp. butter. }/i tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1 spk. pepper. 

1 c. milk. 13/2 c - potatoes. 

Make a white sauce. 

Add 1J/2 c. cold boiled potatoes, cut in half -inch dice. 
Cook until potatoes are thoroughly heated. Add a 
little chopped parsley, if liked. 



Slice a small potato very thin. Place in a glass of 
cold water and allow to stand for one-half hour or more. 
Notice the appearance of the water. What has taken 
place? 

Hold a slice of the potato to the light. Draw, care- 
fully, its appearance. 

Boil the water in which the sliced potato stood. 
What change takes place? 

What causes this change? 

Where does most of the mineral matter of the potato 
lie? 

Why should one not use potato water in cooking? 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Remove skins by placing in boiling water a few 
minutes. They will then peel off easily. Cut in pieces 
and stew in a granite saucepan until tender. To each 



30 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

cup of tomatoes add 1 tsp. butter, 34 tsp. salt, 34 tsp. 
sugar, spk. pepper. Thicken, if desired, with 2 tbsp. 
cracker crumbs. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes or 1 can. 

1 tsp. salt. 

34 tsp. pepper. 

1 tbsp. sugar. 

13^-2 c. bread crumbs 

2-4 tbsp. butter. 

Mix melted butter and crumbs. Sprinkle layer in 
bottom of baking-dish. Pour in half the tomato, 
scatter half the crumbs over this, add remaining tomato, 
cover with crumbs. Brown in a quick oven. 



Spinach 

Freshen four bunches of spinach, pick over carefully, 
and wash in five different waters. Place in a saucepan 
without any water. Cover the saucepan, stirring occa- 
sionally to prevent burning; cook 5 m. Drain in a 
colander and chop fine. 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter in saucepan, add 1 tbsp. flour, 
34 tsp. salt, 3^8 tsp. pepper. Then stir in 34 c. vinegar 
and 3^2 c. water and add 2 tbsp. sugar. Stir constantly 
and, when thickened, add the spinach. Serve, gar- 
nished with hard cooked eggs. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 31 

Why is spinach good for us? 
How else may it be served? 

White Sauce 

1 c. milk. 

2 tbsp. flour. 

1 tbsp. butter. 
J4 tsp. salt. 
Spk. pepper. 

Melt butter, add flour, salt, pepper, stir well to- 
gether, add part of milk and stir until smooth and 
thick. Add half remaining milk, stir until boiling; add 
remaining milk and boil. 

Creamed Carrots 

2 c. cubed, cooked carrots. 
1 c. white sauce. 

Prepare carrots according to directions, cut into Yi 
inch dice, boil until tender in salted water, drain, and 
serve in white sauce. 

Young carrots will cook in twenty to thirty minutes; 
the older ones will require one hour. 

Green Peas 

Prepare peas as directed. Wash the pods carefully 
and boil in a small quantity of water. Cook the peas 
in this water. 



32 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

If young and fresh, the peas will cook in thirty 
minutes; when old, allow forty-five to sixty minutes. 
Drain, season with salt and butter, and serve. If de- 
sired, the liquid may be thickened like a white sauce 
and the peas served in this. 

Always save the liquid in which peas have been 
cooked, as it may be used in soups. 



SERVICE 
The Breakfast Table 

Arrange cups and saucers, creamer and sugar bowl, in 
front of the hostess. A coffee-stand should be placed 
at the right of the hostess for the coffee-pot. 

All heavy dishes are placed in front of the host, so 
that he may serve. 

With fruit, finger bowls should be used. 

The Dinner Table 

The carving set and knife and fork rests should be 
laid in front of the host. The host serves the fish and 
meat. 

The soup ladle should be placed in front of the host- 
ess, handle to the right. The hostess should serve the 
soup, salad, dessert, and coffee, and usually the vege- 
tables. 

The soup spoons should be placed at the right of 
the knives at each place, bowls up. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 33 

Rules for Serving 

Cold food should be served on cold dishes, hot food 
on hot dishes. 

Never fill glasses or cups more than three-fourths 
full. Fill before each course. 

Do not let the table become disorderly during the 
meal. 

When passing a dish, hold it so that the thumb will 
not rest upon the upper surface. 

The waitress should stand at the back of the hostess, 
or while the meat is being carved, at the back of the 
host. She should take each plate from the left as it is 
ready to serve, in her right hand, and place it before 
the person for whom it is intended. Everything is 
served at the left, except liquids in glasses, or cups and 
saucers. 

In passing dishes from which a person is to help 
himself, pass always to the left side, so that the food 
may be taken with the right hand. 

All soiled dishes should be removed from the left. 
The waitress should never pile one dish upon another. 

When one course is finished, soiled dishes should be 
removed first, then food, then clean dishes, then 
crumbs. 

When folding the tablecloth or napkins always fold 
very carefully in the same creases. 



PART II 



EGGS 

Eggs are a tissue-building food, the chief protein 
being a form of albumen. In food value and in digesti- 
bility they compare favorably with meat, and during 
the spring and summer should be freely used. 

When an egg is perfectly fresh it will sink to the 
bottom of a brine made in the proportion of two ounces 
of salt to one pint of water; if stale, the egg will float 
upon the surface. If a stale egg is shaken gently it will 
give a rattling sound. 

Soft-cooked Eggs 

Place egg in stewpan of boiling water, using a spoon. 
Cover closely and place where water will keep hot, but 
where it will not boil. Cook 6 to 8 m. 

Hard-cooked Eggs 

Place egg in stewpan of boiling water, using a spoon. 
Cover closely and place where water will keep hot, but 
where it will not boil. Cook 40 to 45 m. 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Have a shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling, salted 
water, allowing 1 tsp. salt to 1 pt. water. Put a slightly 
buttered muffin-ring in the water. 



38 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Break egg carefully into a cup and slip into muffin- 
ring. The water should cover the egg. 

When there is a film on top, and the white is firm, 
carefully take up ring and egg with a buttered griddle- 
cake turner and place egg on a circular piece of buttered 
toast. 



Pour boiling water over the white of an egg and boil 
hard. How does it appear? 

Fry a little in hot fat. What is the effect? 

Pour some water heated to 180° F. over the white 
and let stand five minutes. What is the appearance? 

Why should you not cook your eggs at 212° F.? 

How much water do you need to use when cooking 
one egg in the shell? 

When cooking four? 

Name the different parts of an egg. 

Why does an egg become "stale"? 

How many eggs of average size in a pound? 

Compare the cost of steak and eggs. 

Scrambled Eggs 

4 eggs. Yl ts P- salt. 

2 tbsp. milk. Spk. pepper. 

Yi tbsp. butter. 

Beat eggs slightly with a fork, add milk and season- 
ing. Melt butter in saucepan, turn in the egg mixture, 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 39 

and stir over a slow fire until it begins to set. Remove 
from fire and cook over hot water until firm, but not 
hard. Serve at once on slices of buttered toast. 

Light Omelet 

2 eggs. % tsp. salt. 

1 tsp. butter. 1 spk. pepper. 

2 tbsp. water. 

Separate yolk from white of eggs. Beat yolks until 
light and creamy, add salt, pepper, and water. Beat 
whites until stiff, cut, and fold them into the yolks. 

Heat omelet pan, and butter sides and bottom. Turn 
in the mixture, spread evenly, place where it will cook 
slowly, occasionally turning the pan that omelet may 
brown evenly. 

When omelet is well risen and delicately browned 
underneath, place pan on oven grate to finish cooking. 
Fold and turn upon a hot platter. 

French Omelet 

3 eggs. Y2 tsp. salt. Spk. pepper. 

Beat the eggs, with the seasoning, just enough to 
break the yolks. Melt Y2 "tsp. butter in a frying-pan. 
Turn in the egg mixture, and with a fork lift the cooked 
portions of the egg, allowing the liquid on top to run 
down underneath. When the egg is cooked, but still 
quite soft on top, slip the knife underneath and roll 



40 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

the omelet to the center. Let it cook for a moment, 
then turn upon a hot platter. Serve at once. 



Estimate cost of each recipe and note the number of 
people it will serve. 

Egg Vermicelli 

Y2 tbsp. butter. }/i tsp. salt. 

2J^ tbsp. flour. 1 spk. pepper. 

13^ c. milk. 4 to 6 slices toasted bread. 

3 hard-cooked eggs. 

Make a white sauce of the first five ingredients. 

Chop the whites of the eggs, add to the white sauce, 
and pour over the toasted bread. 

Press the yolks through a strainer and sprinkle over 
the top. 

General Rules for Custards 

When using milk and eggs together in cooking, cook 
them at a low temperature. Soft custards should be 
cooked in a double boiler. Baked custards should be 
set in a pan of hot water while baking. 

When putting hot milk and cold egg together, pour 
the milk on the egg very slowly, while stirring. 

Stir a soft custard all the time while cooking, and 
when done take out of the hot water immediately. 

Should the custard curdle, place the saucepan in cold 
water and beat the custard with a Dover egg-beater. 



A HANDBOOK: OF HOME ECONOMICS 41 

A soft custard is done when it forms a coating on a 
spoon. 

A baked custard is done when a silver knife inserted 
in the custard comes out clean. 

Custard Sauce 

13^2 c. milk. Y% * S P- sa lt- 

Yolks of 2 eggs. Y2 tsp. vanilla. 

Y c. sugar. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the egg yolk 
slightly, add the sugar and salt. 

Pour the hot milk over this mixture, stirring until 
the egg is all removed from the sides of the bowl. 

Return to the double boiler, and cook until a 
coating is formed. Strain the custard and, when cool, 
flavor. 

Three egg yolks must be used if the custard is not to 
be used as a sauce. 

Baked Custards 

2 c. milk. Y c. sugar. 

3 eggs. Y% tsp. salt. 
1 tsp. vanilla or a little grated nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together until light. Add 
milk and vanilla. Pour into buttered custard cups. 
Stand in pan of hot water. 

Bake in oven until custards are firm in the middle. 
Turn out when cold. 



42 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Estimate cost of the egg vermicelli. 
How could you turn the plain baked custard into a 
caramel custard? 
When should custard desserts be served? 



MILK 
Signs of Good Milk 

"There should be no sediment of dirt after standing. 
There should be about one-sixth the total depth of 
cream — the narrowing neck of the bottle may make it 
seem even more. The milk should keep sweet twenty- 
four hours, and when it tastes sour it should separate 
into curds and whey, not be simply a uniform white 
mass, as is likely to happen when soda is used to keep 
it." * 

Cottage Cheese 

Heat thick, sour milk over hot water until the whey 
separates. Place in cheesecloth and let drain until no 
whey remains. Salt to taste, adding a little cream to 
give the right consistency. Shape into balls of the de- 
sired size. 

Butter 

Use thick, sour cream. If a large amount, place in 
churn; if small, beat with spoon or egg-beater. When 
small globules of butter have formed, drain off the 

1 Mrs. Richards's " Food Materials and their Adulterations." 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 43 

buttermilk, wash in clear, cold water, salt to taste, and 
shape in rolls or balls. 

Junket or Thick Milk 

1 qt. milk. 2 tbsp. cold water. 

1 junket tablet. 34 c. sugar. 

Flavoring: vanilla, nutmeg. 
(1 tbsp. liquid rennet may be used instead of junket.) 

Place the milk in double boiler and warm it. Do 
not let it become hot. 

Add the rennet dissolved in the cold water, and stir. 
Add flavoring. 

Keep in a warm place till thick. Then set in a cool 
place, taking care not to shake it. 

Serve cold with a custard sauce. 



Why does milk sour? 

What is the curd of the milk composed of? 

What is cheese a substitute for? 

What is condensed milk? 

What is certified milk? 

CREAM SOUPS 

Cream soups are a combination of strained, cooked 
vegetable pulp and white sauce; sometimes a small 
amount of white stock is also used. The proportions 
are equal parts of pulp and white sauce. The vegetables 



44 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

generally used are peas, beans, corn, asparagus, celery, 
and potatoes. 

Usually the vegetable is cooked in a small quantity 
of water, and this is mixed with the pulp before meas- 
uring and adding to the white sauce, but with potatoes 
the water is not used. 

The amount of starch in the vegetable used will make 
it necessary for more or less flour to be used in the 
white sauce; the final consistency of the soup should 
be that of good cream. If the soup stands any length 
of time it will become too thick, but may be thinned 
with hot milk. Allow one cup of soup for each person 
when planning your meal. 

Potato Soup 

1 c. potatoes. 3 tbsp. butter. 

3 c. milk. 2 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. water. 3^ tsp. salt. 

1 stalk celery. Spk. pepper. 

34 onion. Spk. celery salt. 

Boil potatoes, and mash. Cook milk, celery, and onion 
together 20 m. in double boiler. Add to potato, thicken 
as for white sauce, strain, and serve at once. 

Mock Bisque Soup 

2 c. milk. 3 tbsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. flour. Spk. pepper. 

2 c. tomato juice. 34 tsp. baking soda. 

Yi tsp. salt. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 45 

Combine milk, butter, flour, salt, and pepper as for 
white sauce. Heat tomato and stir in soda, let the 
mixture stand 5 m., add to the white sauce, heat, and 
serve immediately. 

Corn Soup 

Y2 pt. water. 2 tbsp. minced onion. 

1 pt. canned corn. y% tsp. salt. 

1 pt. white sauce (thin). }/% tsp. pepper. 
J/g tsp. celery salt. 

Cook corn and water fifteen minutes. Strain. Cook 
the onion in the milk, in a double boiler, before making 
the white sauce. Add the strained corn pulp and sea- 
soning to white sauce, and serve. 

Tomato Soup 

1 pt. strained tomato juice. 

1 pt. water in which peas and pea pods have been 
cooked. 

1 tbsp. onion. 

2 tbsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. flour. 
1 tsp. salt. 

y% tsp. paprika. 

Brown the onion in the butter, add the flour, salt, 
pepper, and stir the tomato juice in slowly. Strain 
into the pea liquid, heat, and serve. 



46 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Why do you use soda in the mock bisque and not in 
the other tomato soup? 

Estimate the cost of the corn soup. 

When would you usually serve cream soup? 



MEAT 

The most important of the protein foods are found 
among the different varieties of meat. All meat is 
composed of water, protein and fat, the proportions of 
each varying in different cuts from the same animal, 
and in different animals. 

Beef is more commonly used than any other meat. 
It is best when taken from a young, full-grown animal, 
four to eight years old. The lean meat should be firm 
yet juicy, and should turn a bright red when cut. The 
fat should be generous in amount, creamy white in 
color, and firm to the touch. 

Next to beef, in importance, stands mutton; this, 
like beef, is found in the market the year round, and, 
if the sheep be not more than three or four years old, 
is good. The lean meat should be bright red in color, 
fine grained and juicy. The fat, however, is stronger 
in taste, whiter in color, harder in appearance, and less 
digestible than beef fat. 

Veal, lamb, and pork are less digestible than beef 
and mutton and require more thorough cooking. 

Poultry includes all domestic fowls; it is more expen- 
sive than the varieties of meat already mentioned, and 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 47 

likewise contains less nourishment, but the flavor is 
usually more delicate. 

Game includes all varieties of wild animals used as 
food, such as venison, bear, partridge, quail, rabbits, 
wild turkeys, and squirrel. 



Pull a small piece of lean meat apart. 

What is the protein of meat called? 

Scrape a small piece of meat. 

Cook and taste both the portion scraped and that 
remaining. (Cook in the frying-pan.) 

What is the effect of heat on the meat? 

Which portion is palatable? 

Place a small piece of lean meat in cold water; after 
fifteen minutes note the result. 

Pour boiling water over a piece of meat. What 
happens? 

What causes the change to take place? 

Where have you seen the same result before? 



48 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 




Diagram of side of beef. 



1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Rib. 

4. Short Loin. 



5. Sirloin. 

6. Rump. 

7. Round. 

8. Flank. 



9. Shank. 

10. Plate. 

11. Clod. 



Where will we find the tender meat in an animal? 
Name the three cuts that are the least tender. 
What are these used for? 



Soup Stock 

6 lbs. shin of beef, well broken. 

6 qts. cold water. 

1 tbsp. salt. 

12 pepper-corns. 

6 cloves. 



Y2 c. onions. 
J/2 c. carrot. 
Y% c. turnip. 
J/2 c. celery. 
2 sprigs parsley. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 49 

Remove ^ lb. lean meat. Wash meat and bone 
carefully. Put all but the half pound into the cold 
water and let stand 15 m., then bring slowly to boil- 
ing point. Brown the diced vegetables in the marrow 
fat, skim from the spider, and place with the meat. 
Add tjie lean meat, cut fine, and brown that in the 
remaining fat. Add this to the boiling stock and let 
the whole simmer for 5 to 6 h. Add salt just before 
removing from fire. 

Strain and cool. When ready to serve, remove fat 
and reheat. (If a brown color is not desired, place all 
the meat and vegetables in the cold water at once.) 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices and remove 
the crusts; spread thinly with butter; cut the slices in 
one-half inch squares, lay in pan buttered side up; put 
in the oven and bake until a light brown, or brown, 
without adding any butter. 

Beef Tea 

3 lbs. round steak. 
1 qt. cold water. 

Cut into half-inch cubes, place in bowl and pour 
water over, let stand one hour, simmer 2 to 3 h. 
Strain, season, cool, remove fat, reheat, and serve. 
(Season with salt alone, unless the physician says 
pepper may be used.) 



50 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

In sickness the physician often prescribes broth or 
beef tea, which is a form of simple soup stock. 



Mutton Broth 

2 lb. neck of mutton. 
1 slice onion (medium size). 
1 qt. water (cold). 
x /i tsp. salt. 

Cut meat into small pieces, place in bowl with sea- 
soning and water, let stand 1 h. Simmer 3 to 4 h. 
Strain, cool, remove fat, reheat, and serve. (Beef 
broth may be made in the same way, using meat from 
the round.) 

Beef Extract 
1 lb. of beef from top of round. 

Wipe meat, remove all fat, and cut into small pieces. 
Place in quart fruit jar and put on cover. Place on 
trivet in kettle and surround with cold water. 

Let water heat slowly, care being taken that it does 
not boil. Allow the meat to stand in water for 2 h. 

Strain; press the meat to obtain all the juices. Salt, 
or not, as the physician directs. 



Name four different soups that may be served, using 
the same stock for each soup. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 51 

Broiled Steak 

Meat- 
Top of the round. 

Porterhouse steak. 

Sirloin steak. 

T-bone or short steak. 
Thickness: 

One to one and a half inches. 
Time: 

One inch, — 8m. 

One and a half inches, — 11m. 
Directions: 

Trim, remove superfluous fat; 

Rub granite or iron pan with a little fat; 

Place under hot gas in broiling oven; 

In 4 m. turn, or 

Rub a broiler with a little fat; 

Prepare a bed of coals (glowing red) ; 

Place meat in broiler directly over coals; 

When seared on under surface, turn; 

Then turn every 2 or 3 m. 
Test when done: 

Brown on surface, puffed up and elastic in appear- 
ance. When cut there should be a thin crust, and the 
rest should have an even, red color. 

Pan-broiled Steak 

Prepare as before. Have cast-iron griddle smoking 
hot, place meat on griddle, sear quickly on one side, 



52 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

turn and sear the other side, and turn once or twice 
more. Cook a little longer than when directly over the 
fire. 



How can you recognize porterhouse steak? 
Draw the shape. 
The short steak? 
Draw the shape. 

Why do the juices of steak remain in the meat when 
it is properly cooked? 
How may round steak be made more tender? 
a. 
b. 

Broiled Meat Cakes 

Buy round steak and run it through the meat-grinder. 
To 1 lb. of meat add 

2 tbsp. minced onion. 
% tsp. salt. 
34 tsp. pepper. 

Mix lightly together and shape into small flat cakes. 
Cook as you would pan-broiled steak. 



Beef Stew 

1 lb. meat, neck or round. 
3 potatoes, medium size. 

2 carrots, medium size. 
2 turnips, medium size. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 53 

1 onion, medium size. 

3 tbsp. beef fat or marrow from bone. 
1 qt. water. 

1 tsp. salt. 
x /i tsp.« celery salt. 
Y% tsp. pepper. 
Y% tsp. paprika. 

4 tbsp. flour. 

Cut the tender meat into pieces about one and a 
half inches square. Place any bone there may be, and 
the tough pieces of meat, in cold water, and bring slowly 
to the boiling-point. Roll the tender pieces of meat in 
the flour, and brown in the beef fat or marrow. Add to 
the rest of the meat and simmer 3 or 4 h. 

Prepare the vegetables, cut into half-inch dice and 
add to the boiling stew. Allow }/% h. for the carrots, 
turnips, and onions, and 20 m. for the potatoes. (Par- 
boil the potatoes before adding.) 

Remove the bone and tough portions of the meat, 
season to taste, thicken to the consistency of a thin 
white sauce, and serve with dumplings. 

Dumplings 

1 c. flour. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

3^ tsp. salt. Milk. 

Sift all the ingredients into a bowl. Add milk to 
make a soft dough. 



54 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Drop by spoonfuls into the boiling stew, cover closely 
and cook 15 m. without removing cover. 

Be careful not to have too much liquid, or the dump- 
lings will be heavy. 



Why do you brown the tender meat? 
Why place the rest in cold water? 
Why parboil the potatoes? 
Estimate the cost of the beef stew. 



Left-over Meat Dishes 



Remove all bone and gristle, and most of the fat. 
Use the bones in making soup stock or a sauce in which 
to serve the meat. Season the meat highly. Combine 
with potato, rice, macaroni, or spaghetti. If possible, 
use a little tomato with the meat. If the meat is tender, 
simply reheat; if tough, simmer until tender. 

Cottage Pie 

2 c. cooked meat (diced fine). 
2-3 J/2 c. meat sauce, onion flavor. 

3 c. mashed potato. 

Place meat in baking-dish, pour sauce over, cover 
with mashed potato, and brown in a quick oven. Serve 
hot. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 55 

Scalloped Mutton 

Remove the fat and skin from cold roast mutton; 
chop, and season with salt and pepper. 

Butter a shallow baking-dish; put in a layer of 
crumbs, then a layer of meat. 

Next put in a layer of tomato sauce or brown gravy, 
and one of cold boiled macaroni, if liked. 

Continue in this order until the dish is nearly full. 

On top spread a thick layer of crumbs mixed with 
2 tbsp. melted butter. 

Bake in a hot oven till the crumbs are brown. 

Hash 

Mix and heat together equal parts of chopped, 
cooked meat and chopped, boiled potatoes. 

If dry, add 1 tbsp. butter or beef drippings, and 
2 tbsp. hot water, to every 2 c. of hash. 

Season with salt and pepper, adding onion juice, 
parsley, or other seasoning, if desired. 

Rice Balls 

2 tbsp. boiled rice. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 tsp. chopped meat (beef, mutton, chicken, etc.) 

Spread rice on square of cheesecloth, and place 
seasoned meat in the center. Take up the cloth and 
form a solid ball, having the rice entirely surround the 



56 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

meat. Tie with twine. Cook in boiling water 10 m. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 
The amount given is for one rice ball. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

Chop fine any cold, cooked meat. 
Moisten with gravy, season, and heat. 
Spread on slices of crisp, buttered toast, dipped in 
hot salted water. 



What kinds of fat may be used for frying? 
How may we clarify this fat? 
What are beef drippings? 
What may they be used for? 

GELATINE 

Lemon Jelly 

y% box gelatine, or 2 tbsp. granulated gelatine. 

Y2 c. cold water. 

23^2 c. boiling water. 

1 c. sugar. 

}/2 cup lemon juice. 

Fill mold with cold water. Soak gelatine 20 m. in 
the cold water, and add the boiling water. Stir, add 
sugar and hold over hot water until all sugar and gela- 
tine are dissolved. Add lemon juice and strain into 
cold, wet mold. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 57 

Raspberry Cream 

3^2 box gelatine. 1 pt. raspberry juice. 

Y2 c. sugar. 1 pt. cream. 

Y2 c. cold water. 

Cover gelatine with water, and soak Y2 h., then stand 
it over boiling water until thoroughly dissolved. Add 
to it the sugar and raspberry juice, and strain into a 
dish. 

Place the dish in a pan of ice, and stir continually, 
until the mixture thickens, then add the cream, whipped. 
Stir carefully until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a 
mold, and stand in a cold place to harden. 



What is its chief source of gelatine? 

How is it obtained? 

What is its chief food value? 

FISH 

Fish stands next to eggs and meat as a protein food. 
All fish may be divided into three classes — white fish, 
oily fish, shellfish. The oily fish are the richest in ex- 
tractives and fat, but are less easily digested than the 
white fish. 

Only fresh fish should be purchased; if good, the 
flesh will be firm and plump, the gills red, and the eyes 
bright. 



58 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Boiled Fish 

Wash the fish well in cold water, wipe carefully, and 
rub with a little salt. 

Wrap in cheesecloth, tie the ends, and place in fish 
kettle. Cover with boiling water. Add 

1 tsp. salt. Slice of onion. 

1 bay leaf. Sprig of parsley. 

Cover and simmer 10 m. to every pound. Take 
the fish from the water as soon as it is done, drain, 
remove the cloth carefully; turn the fish on a hot 
plate and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. 

Fried Fish 

Clean the fish and wipe as dry as possible. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then dip in white 
of egg and roll in bread crumbs or corn meal. 

Put into a frying-pan 2 tbsp. of fat which must 
become very hot before the fish is put in. Turn the 
fish with a broad knife or pancake turner, with care 
not to break the fish. 

When cooked an amber color it is ready to turn. 
In serving lay the slices of fish overlapping each other 
on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley. 

Baked Fish 

Scrape the fish free from all scales. Make a small 
opening down the under side and remove the vitals. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 59 

Wash well inside and out, wipe dry with a clean towel. 
Rub well with salt. Make a dressing of 

1 c. stale bread crumbs. 2 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

2 tbsp. melted butter. 1 tsp. salt. 

Mix well and stuff the fish, sewing it up with soft 
yarn. 

Score one side of the fish with a sharp knife, making 
the scores about one inch apart, and dredge thickly 
with salt, pepper, and flour. 

Baste every ten minutes with the gravy in the pan. 



Make a list of the oily fish found in your market, 
with price per pound. 

Make a list of the white fish, with price per pound. 

Name the common shellfish. 

Name the fish which we may buy dried or salted. 

Fish Balls 

1 c. shredded codfish. Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 c. mashed potato. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. butter. 

Boil fish and potato together; drain well. Mash, 
adding seasoning and beaten egg. 

Shape in small balls, or drop by spoonfuls into hot 
fat and fry until a rich brown. Drain on brown paper. 
Serve hot. If desired, dip in beaten egg and roll in 
sifted, dried bread or cracker crumbs before frying. 



60 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Creamed Codfish 

Split salt fish into small pieces. Soak in cold water 
over night. Pour boiling water over it twice in the 
morning. Drain and stir into a white sauce to which 
you have added three eggs, hard cooked, and cut into 
small pieces. Proportions: 

2 c. fish. 3 eggs. % c. white sauce. 

Serve with baked potatoes. 

BEANS 

Sometimes we cannot obtain either meat or fish, or 
we do not care to serve animal food, yet we must have 
our protein in some form. Then we find that certain 
vegetables will work in very well, and peas and beans 
head the list. This form of protein is not so easily 
digested, nor is it so thoroughly assimilated by the 
system, and it would be very unwise to use it commonly, 
but occasionally it is most acceptable. 

We may serve plain boiled lima beans, Boston baked 
beans, or bean soup; but with many the Spanish beans 
will prove to be the most appetizing. 

Spanish Beans 
2 tbsp. vinegar. Salt to taste. 

1 onion. 1 spk. cayenne. 

2 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. tomato. 

1 pt. pink beans. 34 of a red pepper. 

4 tbsp. butter. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 61 

1. Soak the beans over night; boil in salted water 
until tender. 

2. Change the water three times during cooking. Be 
sure to add boiling water each time. 

3. Remove two-thirds of the beans. 

4. Add remaining materials, with exception of 
salt and butter, to beans left in kettle, and boil 

5. Press these beans, with the onion, etc., through a 
sieve; add the water they were boiled in. 

6. Pour this mixture over the whole beans, heat 
again, adding 4 tbsp. butter, and salt to taste. 

Note. — A 2-in. piece of fat salt pork may be boiled 
with the beans, and less butter used. 



Lima Beans 
1 pt. dried Lima beans. 

Pick over carefully, wash, soak in cold water over 
night. Place in fresh boiling water and cook gently 1 
to 1M h. 

Drain, season with salt and butter, and serve hot. 



Estimate the cost of the Spanish beans. 

Make a list of vegetables that are rich in protein. 



62 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

HOUSEKEEPING 

Laundry Work 

When preparing for laundry work, sort out the clothes 
carefully, remove stains, prepare the first water, and 
place the more delicate articles in it. If the water is 
hard, soften by the use of a very little soda water (sal 
soda dissolved in hot water) or borax water. Vary the 
amount of soap according to the kind used. Soak all 
white clothes for an hour or more before washing; 
wash the delicate articles without rubbing; put clothes 
through five waters, if possible. Make bluing water 
the shade of the clear sky at the zenith. 

Set the color in delicate fabrics. Sugar of lead is 
good for blues. Use 1 oz. to 1 gal. of water, and 
soak 1 h. (Remember that this is a poison and keep 
it on a high shelf, plainly marked.) Ordinary colors 
will do well with salt in the rinsing-water after the 
first time; allow 1 tbsp. salt to 1 qt. of water. Vine- 
gar is often used for lavender and purple; the propor- 
tion is the same as salt. Alum is good for green; the 
proportion is the same. 

When possible, boil all white clothes, using a small 
amount of soap in the water. 

Hot starch should be used generally for all clothes 
that are to be stiffened. Use 

1 tbsp. starch. Yo tsp. borax. 



A HANDBOOK OF. HOME ECONOMICS 63 

Mix with a little cold water and stir in boiling water 
until transparent. 

Flannel and silk should be washed in warm, soapy 
water (Wool Soap or Ivory Soap will give good results), 
rinsed carefully in water of the same temperature, and 
hung to dry immediately. (Always wash these by hand, 
without using the washboard.) Iron the silk before it 
is fully dry, but allow the flannel to dry thoroughly. 
Very soft silk may be dipped in water in which gum 
arabic has been dissolved. Mix 1 oz. of gum with 1 pt. 
of hot water, strain through a cloth, and use 2 tsp. to 
1 c. of water. 



To Remove Stains 

Tea or Coffee. — Rinse well and pour boiling water 
over the stain. 

Chocolate. — Sprinkle with powdered borax and soak 
well in cold water. Add boiling water. 

Fruit. — Dip into Javelle water and rinse thor- 
oughly, or treat like tea stains. 

Ink. — Soak two or three hours in coal oil, remove 
and wash in strong soap-suds, or rub with lemon juice 
and salt. 

Calla lily. — Nothing satisfactory; try ammonia 
several times. 

Milk. — Wash quickly in cold water. 

Scorch. — Hang in sun and try soap solution. 

Grass. — Wash in alcohol and rub well. 



64 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Paint. — Rub with benzine or turpentine. 

Blood. — Soak in cold water until stain turns brown, 
then wash in warm water and soap. 

Mildew. — Rub lemon juice upon the spots and place 
in sunshine. Salt may also be used. 

Iron Rust. — Spread carefully over bowl in which 
you have placed J/£ tsp. borax and 1 pt. water. Drop 
by drop apply acid until the stain brightens; then dip 
directly in water. Repeat if necessary. It is often 
wise to add ammonia to the rinsing water. 



Javelle Water 

4 lbs. washing soda. 
4 qts. boiling water. 
1 lb. chloride of lime. 

Dissolve soda in water in agate or granite-ware 
kettle, boil 10 m., stir in the lime gradually. When 
cold, strain through cloth and place in bottles. For 
ordinary bleaching, use 1 c. to 8 qts. of water. Do not 
leave in the water over 5 m. 



What is the difference between soft and hard 
water? 

What makes a good soap? 

How do you prepare an ironing board? 

What is the best shape and why? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 65 

BATTERS 

Any mixture of flour and liquid thin enough to be 
beaten is called a batter. Batter may be divided into 
three classes, — thin, thick, and drop-batters. 

The proportions for the thin batters are equal parts 
of flour and liquid. 

The proportions for the thick batter are twice as 
much flour as liquid. 

A drop-batter requires enough flour to cause it to 
fall readily from the spoon. 

Popovers 

1 c. flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. milk. 34 tsp. salt. 

Sift flour into bowl. In the center of the flour place 
the egg, unbeaten, add the salt and milk, stir until 
thoroughly mixed, then beat for a moment. Bake in a 
moderate oven 30 to 40 m. Or: Beat the egg (it is 
better if two are used) separately, add milk to yolk, 
and stir into dry material. Beat with Dover egg- 
beater. Then fold in stiff white. 

What makes the popovers light? 

Experiments 

Place 1 tsp. soda in a glass. Add J^ c. cold water. 
Note results. 



66 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Place 2 tsp. cream of tartar in a glass. Add 34 c. 
cold water. Note results. 

Mix 1 tbsp. of the soda water with the cream of 
tartar. Note results. 

Mix 1 tbsp. of soda water with 1 tbsp. vinegar. Note 
results. 

What does soda come from? 

What does cream of tartar come from? 

What is the name of the product formed from their 
union? 

General Rules for Baking Powder 

2 tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour without eggs. 
\Yt tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour with eggs. 
1 tsp. baking powder and }/% tsp. soda to 1 c. solid 
sour milk. 

Rules for Mixing and Baking Quick Breads 

Sift dry materials. 

Mix liquid materials. 

Stir liquid into dry. 

Add shortening, melted. 

Beat well for two or three minutes. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

Note: 

Stir all mixtures to make them smooth. 
Beat all mixtures to make them light. 
Cut the stiff whites of eggs into a mixture. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 67 

Order of Work: 

Look after the heat of the oven; if you have a gas 

range, light the oven. 
Butter the baking-tins with any sweet, fresh fat. 
Get the utensils ready for work. 
Prepare the materials. 
Mix. 

Baking-powder Biscuits 

2 c. flour. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 

3^2 tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. lard or butter. 

Milk or water to make a soft dough. 

Sift dry materials. Cut or chop in butter or lard, 
using a case-knife. Add enough liquid to make a soft 
dough. Turn upon a floured board, pat lightly into 
shape, half an inch thick. Cut, place on a slightly 
floured tin, and bake in a hot oven about 10 m. 



Change this biscuit recipe into shortcake dough. 
Name the different fruits commonly used for short- 
cake. 

Write the directions for making shortcake. 

Griddle Cakes 

3 c. flour. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 tsp. salt. Milk to make a soft batter. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 2 tbsp. butter. 



68 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Sift dry ingredients, add beaten eggs and milk, beat 
well and add butter. 

Drop by spoonfuls on a hot, greased griddle. Turn 
when full of bubbles on top and cooked on edges. Cook 
the other side till brown. 



Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

23^ c. flour. ^2 tsp. salt. 

2 c. sour milk. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. soda. 



Syrup 

2 c. brown sugar. % c. water. 

Stir till dissolved and bring to the boiling 
point. 
Boil 5 m. 



What is baking powder? 

Name two standard kinds. 

What is the price of baking powder per pound? 

How many teaspoons in a half pound? 

What kind of a griddle is best for hot cakes? 

What comes next? 

Reduce the recipe for griddle cakes to one-eighth. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 69 

Cornmeal Muffins 

1 c. flour. 1 egg. 

Y% c. corn meal. 3 tbsp. butter. 

34 c. sugar. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. milk. y% tsp. salt. 

Sift dry ingredients, add milk, well-beaten egg, and 
melted butter. Place in greased pans and bake fifteen 
to twenty minutes, in a quick oven. 

Graham Muffins 

1 c. Graham flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. white flour. y tsp. salt. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. butter. 

34 c. sugar. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix, and bake like corn meal muffins. 



Estimate the cost of both of these recipes. 



Wheat Muffins 

2 c. flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. shortening. 

34 c. sugar. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Y<L tsp. salt. 



70 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Sift dry materials, beat egg, add milk, stir into dry 
materials, and add shortening, melted. Bake in 
buttered pans 20 m. in a quick oven. 



Estimate the cost of this recipe. 
How many should it serve? 

Boston Brown Bread 

2 c. corn meal. 3 c. warm water. 

1 c. rye or Graham flour. 3 tsp. soda. 

1 c. common flour. Y% tsp. salt. 

1 c. molasses. 

Sift the dry materials, add liquid, and steam in one 
dish four hours, or in tiny cups three-fourths of an hour 
to one hour. 



Explain what takes the place of the cream of tartar 
in this recipe. 

What might be used in place of the water? 

CAKE 
General Rules for Cake 

Prepare oven; prepare tins; prepare utensils; pre- 
pare ingredients; cream butter; add sugar gradually; 
separate eggs; beat yolks creamy; beat whites stiff; 
sift flour, salt, baking powder. 

Add a little of the dry materials to the creamed 
butter and sugar. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 71 

Mix milk and egg yolk. Add half to creamed mixture. 

Alternate with dry material until all is added. Fold 
in stiff whites and flavoring. Bake in a moderate oven. 
If it is a layer cake use a quick oven. If a moist 
cake is desired, add eggs, unbeaten, to creamed butter 
and sugar. 

Plain Cake 

4 tbsp. butter. 

1 c. fine granulated or powdered sugar. 

2 eggs. 

J/2 c. milk. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 

1% c. flour. 

1 tsp. spice or J^ tsp. flavoring. 

1 spk. salt. 



Suggest four variations made from this recipe. 
Estimate the cost of the plain cake. 

Sponge Cake 

1 c. sugar. 4 eggs. 

1 c. flour. 3 tbsp. milk or water. 

1 tsp. flavoring. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

}/i tsp. salt. 

Separate eggs, beat yolks creamy, whites stiff. Add 
sugar lightly to yolks, then flour and baking powder, 



72 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

sifted thoroughly together. Stir the milk, flavoring, 
and salt in lightly, then fold in stiff whites. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



What is the difference between angel cake and sponge 
cake? 

Which is the more tender and why? 

Estimate the cost with eggs at 60^ per dozen and at 
25f£ per dozen. 

Gingerbread 

1 c. molasses. K c - shortening. 

3^ c. sugar. 1 tsp. ginger. 

3 c. flour. 1 tsp. soda. 

1 c. boiling water. J4 tsp. salt. 
1 egg. 

Cream butter, add sugar, well-beaten egg, molasses, 
and salt. Stir in the flour and soda, thoroughly sifted 
together. Pour the boiling water over the ginger, and 
add last. Beat well and bake in a shallow pan in a 
moderate oven. 



What could we add to this which would change it 
into a spice cake? 

Give the exact amounts needed. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 73 

CANDY 

Fondant 

2 c. granulated sugar. 
}/2 c. water. 

Boil until it threads on a fork (242° F.). Do not 
stir while cooking. Remove from the fire. When 
lukewarm, beat until creamy and stiff enough to handle. 
Knead lightly until soft and pliable. 

Boil the sugar and water gently; if the side of the 
saucepan becomes covered with granulated sugar, wipe 
it off with a damp cloth, and if the sugar granulates 
when you begin to stir it, add more water and boil 
again. 

Butter-scotch 

1 c. butter. 5 tbsp. molasses. 

1 % c. sugar. y 2 tsp. vanilla. 

Boil molasses, sugar, and butter twenty minutes, 
stirring as little as possible, add flavoring and turn into 
prepared dishes. Cut when it begins to stiffen. 

Bonbons 

Roll candied fruit or nuts into some of the fondant, 
making small balls. Dip in some fondant melted over 
hot water. Be sure and stir the fondant while it is 
melting. 



74 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Compare the cost of bonbons made from fondant 
and the high-priced ones in stores. 

Write out directions for making chocolate creams. 
Write out directions for making peppermints. 



COOKIES 

In rolling cookies, handle the rolling-pin very lightly 
and roll only a small amount of dough at a time. Use 
as little flour as possible on the board and be sure that 
the cookies are not floury when placed in the oven. 
Watch the oven carefully, as they burn very easily. 
Cool thoroughly before placing in pail, jar, or can. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 c. molasses. 4 tbsp. butter. 

1 tsp. ginger. 1 tsp. soda. 

Spk. salt. Flour to make stiff dough. 

Boil molasses, add butter, ginger, salt, soda, flour. 
Roll very thin, cut in rounds, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Plain Cookies 

1 c. sugar. 1 egg. 

Yi c. butter. x /i tsp. salt. 

Yi c. milk. y% tsp. flavoring. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 
Flour to make a dough stiff enough to roll. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 75 

Roll one-eighth inch thick, cut in rounds, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Fruit Cookies 

Y c. butter. 34 tsp. salt. 

54 c. sugar. Y^ tsp. cinnamon. 

2 eggs (small). Y2 c. chopped walnuts. 
Y2 tsp. soda. 34 c - currants. 

3 tbsp. hot water. 34 c - raisins, seeded and chopped. 

About 1% c. flour. 

Cream the butter. Add the sugar gradually, then 
add the eggs, well beaten, the soda dissolved in the 
hot water, and one-half of the flour, mixed and sifted 
with the salt and cinnamon. 

Then add the walnuts, raisins, and currants, and the 
rest of the flour. Drop by spoonfuls one inch apart on 
a greased pan, and bake in a moderate oven. 



HYGIENE 

You have studied hygiene in your class-room and you 
know what the word means and how it applies to the 
person and the public. Water, milk, fruits, and vege- 
tables, the city markets, the streets of the town, the 
collection and care of the garbage, the care of base- 
ments, alleys, and back yards, the style of the buildings, 
the hospitals for the care of the sick, all have to do in 
one way or another with public hygiene. 



76 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

How do water and milk affect the public health? 

How may fruits and vegetables be kept in a hygienic 
condition? 

What should be the condition of basements? 

What should be the condition of alleys? 

Give two ways in which you can help the public good 
health. 

1. 

2. 

However carefully the public may plan, the results 
will not be satisfactory unless each individual looks after 
his own personal hygiene. We are so closely bound 
together, especially in city life, that no one can exist to 
himself alone. You have learned that certain things lead 
to increased health and strength. Name some of these 
things. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

If you have indigestion how can you probably over- 
come it? 

How are you going to care for your teeth, and how 
often will you visit the dentist? 

Why are you to use your own personal towel and 
drinking-cup? 

Why are you to sleep with your windows open both 
top and bottom? 

How will you help destroy flies and mosquitoes? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 77 

MARMALADE 

Orange Marmalade 

5 large oranges. 2 qts. water. 

2 lemons. 2 lbs. sugar. 

Slice oranges thin, add juice of lemons and pour over 
the water. Let stand 24 h. (uncovered except by a 
thin cloth). Cook until the rind is tender and let stand 
24 h. longer. 

Add the sugar and cook gently until it jellies. This 
should make six glasses. 

Peach Marmalade 

Peel peaches, halve; measure. To 6 qts. peaches 
take one quart water, cook gently one hour, add half 
the quantity of sugar, cook one hour, stirring often. 

Rhubarb with Pineapple Marmalade 

4 lbs. rhubarb. 4 lbs. sugar. 

1 pineapple. 

Cut pineapple fine and rhubarb into half-inch pieces, 
cook together until tender, add sugar, and cook until it 
thickens slightly. 

Add a very little water when beginning to cook. 



What must you do to the glasses before pouring in 
the marmalade? 



78 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Why must this be done? 

How should the glasses be covered? 

Name other kinds of marmalade. 



BREAD 

In our work with marmalade we have been very 
careful to destroy anything that might cause fermenta- 
tion in our finished product. Now we are going to work 
with just the opposite idea in mind. Our earlier lessons 
in doughs have been where the carbon dioxide was 
quickly formed and quickly escaped. When we study 
bread, we find that even the quickest process requires 
several hours, and frequently six to eight hours pass 
before the finished loaves come from the oven. 

The foundation of good bread is good flour and good 
yeast; let either of these be poor and the result is a 
partial failure. By good yeast is meant fresh, pure 
yeast which will grow rapidly and help to produce the 
carbon dioxide we want, and only that. Yeast is a tiny 
plant that grows very rapidly but cannot be seen with- 
out a microscope; to develop thus rapidly it must have 
a warm, not hot, atmosphere, with plenty of food and 
drink. As it grows in the dough it splits up the sugar 
in the mixture, and from this comes the carbon dioxide 
which makes the bread light. A certain amount of 
alcohol is also thrown off, but this escapes before the 
bread is thoroughly baked. 

Remember first the three necessary ingredients in 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 79 

good bread: good flour, good yeast, milk or water; then 
the three accessories which are added to make it taste 
better: sugar, salt, shortening. 

The kneading is necessary to make the gluten elastic, 
for without this we could not have spongy bread. If 
possible, let this be done in the home with the bread- 
mixer, leaving the hand-kneading to the end of the 
process when the dough is shaped into loaves. 

Bread Made with Milk or Water 

2 c. boiling water, or 1 tbsp. sugar. 

1 c. milk and 1 c. water. 3^2 tbsp. salt. 
1 tbsp. butter. 34 yeast cake. 

1 tbsp. lard. 34 c. lukewarm water. 

About 6 c. sifted flour. 

Place shortening, sugar, and salt in a large bowl, pour 
in the boiling water, or boiling water and scalded milk. 

When the mixture is blood warm, add the dissolved 
yeast cake and 5 c. flour. Stir till thoroughly mixed, 
using a knife or wooden spoon. 

Add remaining flour, mix, turn on a floured board, 
leaving a clean bowl. Knead until the mixture is 
smooth and elastic to the touch, and bubbles may be 
seen under the surface. 

Return to the bowl, cover with a clean cloth and a 
board or tin cover, let it rise over night in a tempera- 
ture of 65° F. Or, use a whole yeast cake and let it rise 
for 2 or 3 h., or until 2J^ times its original size. 



80 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Turn on floured board, knead, shape in loaves or bis- 
cuits, place in greased pans, having the pans nearly full. 

Let the dough rise to double its size, and bake in a 
hot oven. This will make a large loaf of bread and a 
pan of biscuit. 



What is the protein of wheat called? 
What are the two carbohydrates? 
What are the two chief classes of flour? 
What is the difference between them? 
Describe the appearance of gluten. 
Name three varieties of yeast. 

Which would you take with you far out in the coun- 
try? Why? 

Graham Bread 

2J/2 c. boiling water. 1 tbsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. shortening. About 4^ c. white flour. 

Y2 cake yeast. H c - lukewarm water. 

Make a sponge of this over night. In the morning 
add 1 c. molasses and enough Graham flour to make a 
stiff batter, about 1^ c. (If very coarse, the flour 
should be sifted.) 

Put in greased pans and let it rise until double in 
bulk. Bake 1 h. This will make two loaves. 

If very dark molasses is used, add Y% c. sugar to the 
shortening and salt, and use only % c. molasses in 
morning. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 81 

What is Graham flour? 
Why bake in small rather than large loaves? 
How should you care for the bread when it is baked? 
Why is bread more digestible the day after it is 
baked? 

Quick Bread 

1 pt. warm water or milk (scalded). 

1 tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. sugar. 

2 tsp. shortening ( beef fat or lard). 

2 yeast cakes (dissolved in 1 c. of the liquid). 

Flour to make a soft dough. 

Mix and knead like any bread. Put in a warm place 
and watch carefully; when light, knead, shape in small 
loaves, let rise again until a little more than double in 
size, and bake in a moderate oven 40 to 45 minutes. 
The whole process should not take much over two 
hours. 



Why does this bread rise so much more rapidly? 
Give the signs by which you should know a good loaf 
of bread. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
What causes sourness in bread? 



82 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

THE CARE OF THE BEDROOM 

The only room in which we are likely to pass six to 
ten hours daily, without any change, is our sleeping- 
room. No other room in the whole house should be 
more carefully selected or better ventilated than this. 
The best of all is to sleep out of doors, but only a 
few can do this, and we must try to make the air 
in our rooms as much like outdoor air as we possibly 
can. 

In selecting our sleeping-room let us have a sunny 
exposure, with windows, if possible, on two sides, and 
the space so planned that a bed may fit in without 
standing in front of one window. If we can, let us 
have a hardwood floor, or a painted one, with a few 
rugs that can be easily cleaned; if this is not possible, 
the floor may be covered with a good matting. The 
furnishings should be light, simple, and such as may 
be easily cleaned. The walls should be of soft tone, 
and the curtains light, so that the air will pass through 
readily. 

For the bed itself select a light brass or iron frame 
and put all the money you can afford into your mat- 
tress. Whatever kind you select, let it be the best 
possible, but not too soft. Be sure that the spring is 
firm; where this gives too much one does not rest so well. 
Cover the mattress with a case of unbleached muslin 
that can be easily removed and laundered, and place 
a thin washable pad under the sheet. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 83 

Let the sheets be long enough to tuck in securely at 
the bottom and turn over well at the top, and make 
them of firm, well-woven sheeting. Choose several 
light-weight covers rather than one heavy one, using 
blankets whenever you can afford them — wool blank- 
ets, or those that are three-quarters wool. 

Let the spread be simple and light and easily laun- 
dered, and make the pillow-slips long enough to really 
cover the pillows. 



In making the bed, how should you proceed? 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

How frequently should the bedding be aired out of 
doors? 

If some one were sick, how would you change the 
bedding? 

What could you use for a simple rest for the back 
when sitting up in bed? 

How would you get ventilation with one window? 

SALADS 

There is no line of cookery in which more care and 
study are required to gain the best results than in salad- 
making. Yet, when understood, nothing is more simple. 



84 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Certain things are essential to success — such as crisp 
lettuce, good olive oil, a well-made dressing, fresh fruits 
and vegetables, well-prepared meat and fish. 

All lettuce must be well washed, the leaves dried in 
a soft cloth, then placed close to the ice in a cheese- 
cloth, or, if nothing else is at hand, a paper bag. The 
uncooked vegetables must be tender and thoroughly 
chilled ; the cooked vegetables cut into attractive shapes, 
when desired, and then kept unbroken; fish should be 
freed from all skin and bone and separated into distinct 
flakes; meat must be diced after being freed from bone, 
fat, and all gristle. 

When using cooked vegetables, or meat and fish, 
mix the French dressing with the prepared ingredients 
a half hour or more before serving. The best result is 
obtained by mixing each kind separately, putting to- 
gether just before serving. 

Always try to make the salad dainty and attractive 
when serving. If in individual form, shape the lettuce 
leaves into cup shapes, and garnish — where possible — 
with some special vegetables, or with olives. 

Remember that the simpler salad-dressings are the 
more wholesome, and should be the ones most com- 
monly used. 

French Dressing 

1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice. J^ tsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. olive oil. Spk. pepper. 

x /i tsp. paprika 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 85 

Place the salt and pepper in a bowl, add oil slowly, 
and mix until the salt is dissolved. Then add the 
vinegar gradually, beating with a fork. 

Boiled Dressing 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil. 

1 tsp. sugar. 1 spk. pepper. 

z /i tsp. salt. 2 tbsp. strong vinegar. 

Y2 tsp. mustard. Y c. water. 

Mix dry ingredients together. Add to egg and stir. 
Add vinegar and water, then butter, and put in a 
double boiler, stirring until thick. 

This dressing will keep several weeks in a covered jar. 
When ready to use, add sour cream, sweet cream, or 
milk, to thin it to the desired consistency. The pro- 
portions of water and vinegar vary with the strength 
of the vinegar. 

Note. — 1 tsp. of flour and one whole egg may be 
used in place of three yolks. 

Apple and Celery Salad 

2 c. apples, cut in small cubes. 
1 c. celery, cut in small cubes. 
Y c. walnuts. 

Mix the ingredients together. Moisten with salad 
dressing. Arrange in lettuce-cups, cover with a little 
dressing, and put one-half of a walnut on top of each. 



86 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Salmon Salad 

1 c. fish. Yl c. celery. Salad-dressing. 

Flake the fish. Wash the celery and cut into very 
thin slices. Mix fish and celery. Add enough salad- 
dressing to thoroughly moisten the fish and celery. 
Toss lightly together with a fork. Heap on crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

Tomato Salad 

Tomatoes. Cucumbers. Salad-dressing. 

1. Place tomatoes in a pan and cover with boiling 
water. Let them stand 5 minutes. Drain off water 
and cover with cold water. 

2. Peel tomatoes, remove thin slice from stem end 
of tomatoes, and remove seeds and part of pulp. 

3. Sprinkle inside with salt, invert, and let stand Y2 h- 

4. Fill tomatoes with thin slices of cucumber and 
tomato, mixed with salad-dressing. 

5. Arrange on lettuce leaves, and put dressing on top. 

Potato Salad 

3 c. cold boiled potatoes. 

1 tbsp. chopped onion, or Y2 tsp. onion juice. 

Salt and pepper. 

1 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

J4 c. finely cut celery, or 1 tbsp. celery seed. 

2 hard-cooked eggs. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 87 

1. Cut potatoes into 3^ in. cubes and add other 
ingredients. 

2. Pour salad-dressing over all, and garnish with 
the hard-cooked eggs. Separate the eggs and sift the 
yolks, as in egg vermicelli. 



Name some other vegetables that combine well in 
salads. 

Name some fruits that combine well in salads. 

What may be used in place of olive oil in the French 
dressing? 

FIRST AIDS TO THE INJURED 

In your hygiene study you have touched upon many 
things helpful to others and to yourself in times of 
accident. 

What would you do for a cut on the finger? 

What would you do for a cut on the arm? 

What is best for a simple burn where the skin is 
unbroken? 

What is best for a burn where the skin is broken? 

How can you remove a cinder from the eye? 

What should you do when some one is fainting? 

How can you extinguish flames on clothing? 

What should you do with blazing fat? 

Give a simple remedy for sore throat. 

What would you do for a cold? 



SS A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

What is best for a simple sprain? 

How can you prevent a black-and-blue spot? 

How remove soreness from a bruise? 

What should not be taken for headache? 

What is done for a rattlesnake bite? 

Give a list of a few things that should always be on 
hand in the home and state what you would use them 
for. 

Make a list of foods suitable in case of illness: 

Liquids. Semi-solids. Solids. 



PUDDINGS 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

1 c. molasses. M tsp. salt. 

1 c. sweet milk. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

3 c. flour. Yl tsp. nutmeg. 

3<3 c. butter. }/% tsp. cloves. 

1 tsp. soda. y% tsp. ginger. 

2 tsp. cream of tartar. 1 c. raisins, cut fine. 

Flour the raisins with a little flour taken from the 
3 cups. Sift the dry materials twice. Add the liquid, 
then the shortening, melted. Last, stir in the fruit. 
Steam 3 h. In small cups, steam % h. 

Serve with a liquid sauce or with lemon cream 
sauce. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 89 

Lemon Cream Sauce 

1 c. powdered sugar. 
4 tbsp. butter. 

Grated rind of one lemon. 

2 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Spk. nutmeg. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually; when smooth and 
creamy, add grated rind, juice and nutmeg. Beat 
10 m. Stir for a minute over boiling water before serv- 
ing. Serve on a warm plate. 

Liquid Sauce 

1 c. sugar. 3 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. water. 2 tbsp. butter. 

34 tsp. salt. 

Juice or grated rind of one lemon, or flavoring to taste 
(vanilla or spice). 

Prune Whip 

Yz lb. prunes. 4 egg whites. 

J^ c. confectioners' sugar. 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Stone the cooked prunes, drain well, and press through 
a strainer. Beat the egg whites stiff, beat in the sugar 
gradually, then add the prune pulp, a little at a time, 
beating steadily until all is in. Add the lemon juice, 



90 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

pile lightly on a platter, place over hot water in the 
oven and brown slightly, or place in baking-dish and 
brown. Serve cold, with a custard poured around the 
whip. The oven must be a moderate one or the whip 
will fall. 

Custard 

4 egg yolks. Spk. salt. 

1 pt. milk. Lemon flavoring. 

}/% c. sugar. 

Make like any soft custard. 



Estimate cost of this dessert. 

Name other fruits that might be used in the same way. 



Orange Cream 

3 good oranges. 

3^ good lemon. 

Y2 oz. gelatine (soften in the cold water) . 

34 c. cold water. 

Add enough hot water to make one pint of liquid, 
including the juice from the oranges and lemon. Beat 
until gelatine is dissolved, strain, cool until of the con- 
sistency of thick cream, beat in 8 tbsp. of whipped 
cream and about 3^3 c. powdered sugar; beat well and 
turn into prepared mold. Serve cold. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 91 

Name the fruits which could be used in place of the 
oranges. 
What could be substituted for the whipped cream? 
What kinds of gelatine may be used? 

FROZEN DISHES 

Some of our best and simplest desserts are the sher- 
bets, ices, and creams. An ice is simply fruit juice, 
water, and sugar, frozen together. A sherbet is, usu- 
ally, the same as an ice with the addition of stiff egg 
whites. A cream should be pure cream, flavoring, and 
sugar, or a rich custard with cream added, in equal 
quantities. This last combination is the richest of all. 

In packing the freezer use three parts of ice to one of 
salt. See that the crank works easily before beginning 
to pack, and test occasionally while filling with the ice 
and salt. Do not fill the can more than two-thirds full 
of the ice cream or sherbet, otherwise it will run over 
before it is frozen. Turn very slowly at first, stopping 
once or twice; when too hard to turn, remove dasher, 
pack down, cover closely, repack with salt* and ice, and 
allow it to stand several hours to harden. 

Fruit Sherbet 

3 oranges. 3 c. sugar. 

3 lemons. 3 c. water. 

1 banana. 2 egg whites. 

J^ can apricots. 



92 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Press juice and pulp through a strainer, adding water 
to aid in the sifting. Add the sugar, stir until dissolved, 
and freeze. When it begins to stiffen, add the stiff 
whites. 

Strawberry Ice 

1 pt. strawberry juice 

-, j. [boil together; cool. 

1 c. water. J 

Juice of 2 lemons. 

Mix fruit juice and syrup, add more sugar if neces- 
sary, pack and freeze. 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 

1 c. sugar. 2 c. milk. Juice of 2 lemons. 

Dissolve sugar in the milk and freeze. When thick 
add the lemon juice and freeze again. 

Fruit Punch I 

4 c. cold water. 

2 c. sugar. 

2 c. chopped pineapple (or 1 qt. can). 

1 c. orange juice. 

}/2 c. lemon juice. 

Boil water, sugar, and pineapple 20 m. 
Add fruit juice; cool, strain, and dilute with ice water. 
Any of the following fruits may be added : 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 93 

Y 2 box berries of any kind, (mashed through a vege- 
table press). 

2 bananas, sliced or mashed. 
J/2 c. grape juice. 

1 c. fresh cherries, stoned and sliced. 

2 ripe peaches peeled, stoned, and mashed. 

Fruit Punch II 

2 c. water. 34 1°. candied cherries. 

2 c. sugar. 1 doz. strawberries. 

Chopped rind of 1 lemon. 1 pineapple grated, or 
Juice of 8 lemons. 1 qt. can. 

1 banana. 2 qts. Apollinaris. 

Boil water, sugar, and lemon rind 10 m. Strain. 
When cool add the lemon juice, pineapple, and other 
fruit, sliced. 

Place a large square of ice in a punch-bowl. Pour 
over this the mixture, adding the Apollinaris water when 
ready to serve. 

MENUS 

Make out three breakfast menus. Plan for four 
in the family and make the cost per person 15^ for 
the first meal and 20^ for the remaining two. 

Make out three dinner menus of two courses. 

Make out three dinner menus of three courses. 

Make out two dinner menus of four courses. 



94 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Estimate the cost in each case. 
Plan for a family of four. 
Allow 25^ per person in the first set. 
Allow 35^ per person in the second set. 
Allow 50^ per person in the third set. 






INDEX 



Abbreviations, table of, 4, 5. 
Accidents, First Aid in, 87, 88. 
Apple Sauce, 12. 
Apples, Baked, 13. 
Apricots, Dried, 14. 
Aprons, size and material of, 3. 

Baking Powder, rules for use 
of, 66. 

Biscuits, 67. 
Barley Gruel, 24. 
Batters, 65. 
Beans, food value of, 60. 

Spanish, 60, 61. 

Lima, 61. 
Bedroom, 82, 83. 
Beef, 46. 

cuts of, 48. 

Tea, 49, 50. 

Extract, 50. 

Stew, 52, 53. 
Beefsteak, broiled, 51. 

Pan-broiled, 51, 52. 
Bonbons, 73, 74. 
Bread, Quick, 66, 67, 81. 

Boston Brown, 70. 

the making of good, 78, 79. 

made with milk or water, 79. 

Graham, 80. 
Broth, Mutton, 50. 
Brown Bread, Boston, 70. 
Butter, 42, 43. 
Butter-scotch, 73. 



Cake, rules for, 70, 71. 

Plain, 71. 

Sponge, 71. 
Candy, Nut Brittle, 15. 

Fudge, 15, 16. 

Syrup, 16, 68. 

Fondant, 73. 

Butter-scotch, 73. 

Bonbons, 73, 74. 
Carrots, creamed, 31. 
Cereals, 21. 

composition of, 21, 22. 

rules for cooking, 22. 

Gruels of, 23, 24. 
Cheese, Cottage, 42. 
China, washing, 4. 
Chocolate, how to make, 11. 
Cocoa, how to make, 12. 
Codfish, creamed, 60. 
Coffee, care of, 8. 

how to make boiled, 8, 9. 

how to make filtered, 9. 
Cookery room, order and 

neatness in, 3. 
Cookies, 74, 75. 
Cooking utensils, care of, 3. 

washing, 4. 
Cornmeal Muffins, 69. 
Corn Soup, 45. 
Cornstarch Pudding, 20, 21. 
Cottage Cheese, 42 
Cottage Pie, 54. 
Cranberry Jelly, 13. 



96 



INDEX 



Croutons, 49. 
Custard, rules for, 40. 

Sauce, 41. 

Baked, 41. 

Boiled, 90. 

Dishes, instructions for wash- 
ing, 4. 
Dressing, French, 84, 85. 

Boiled, 85. 
Dried Fruits, 14. 
Dumplings, 53, 54. 

Eggs, food value of, 37. 

how to judge fresh, 37. 

Soft-cooked, 37. 

Hard-cooked, 37. 

Poached, 37, 38. 

Scrambled, 38, 39. 

Light Omelet of, 39. 

French Omelet of, 39, 40. 

Vermicelli, 40. 
Equivalents, table of, 5. 
Experimental formulas, 20, 
65, 66. 

Fats, review questions on, 56. 
Fire, how to build a, 6. 
First Aid to the Injured, 87, 

88. 
Fish, 57. 

Boiled, 58. 

Fried, 58. 

Baked, 58, 59. 

Creamed, 60. 
Fish Balls, 59. 

Flannel fabrics, how to wash, 
63. 



Flour Gruel, 23. 
Fondant, 73. 

Food, three classes of, 10. 
Frozen Dishes, 91, 92. 
Fruit, 13-15. 
Dried, 14. 
Fruit Cookies, 75. 
Fruit Punch, 92, 93. 
Fruit Sherbet, 91, 92. 
Fudge, 15, 16. 

Game, 47. 

Garbage, care and disposal of, 

17, 18. 
Gas Range, instructions for 

lighting, 6. 
Gelatine, 56. 
Gingerbread, 72. 
Ginger Snaps, 74. 
Glassware, washing, 4. 
Graham Muffins, 69. 
Griddle Cakes, 67, 68. 

Sour milk, 68. 
Gruel, 22. 

Indian Meal, 23. 

Flour, 23. 

Oatmeal, 23. 

Barley, 24. 

Hash, 55. 

Housekeeping, suggestions for, 
3, 17-19. 

Laundry work in, 62, 63. 
Hygiene, 75, 76. 

care of bedrooms, 82, 83. 

Ices, 91-93. 

Indian Meal Gruel, 23. 



INDEX 



97 



Injured, First Aid to, 87, 

88. 

Javelle Water, 64. 
Jelly, Cranberry, 13. 

Lemon, 56. 
Junket, 43. 

Knives and Forks, care in 
washing, 4. 

Lamb, 46. 

Laundry, method .of work in, 

62, 63. 
removal of stains on clothes 

in, 63, 64. 
Left-over dishes, 54. 
Lemon Cream Sauce, 89. 
Lemon Jelly, 56. 
Lemon Milk Sherbet, 92. 

Marmalade, 77, 78. 
Measurements, table of, 5, 6. 
Meat, food value of, 46. 

varieties of, 46, 47. 

Minced, 56. 
Meat Cakes, broiled, 52. 
Menus, 93, 94. 
Metals, how to clean, 18, 

19. 
Milk, 10. 

care of, 10. 

composition of, 11. 

signs of good, 42. 

Junket or thick, 43. 
Muffins, Cornmeal, 69. 

Graham, 69. 

Wheat, 69, 70. 



Mutton, 46. 
Broth, 50. 
Scalloped, 55. 

Nut Brittle, 15. 

Oatmeal Gruel, 23. 
Omelet, light, 39. 
French, 39, 40. 
Orange Cream, 90, 91. 
Orange Marmalade, 77. 

Peaches, dried, 14. 
Peach Marmalade, 77. 
Peas, Green, 31, 32. 
Pie, Cottage, 54. 
Pineapple Cream, 21. 
Popovers, 65. 
Pork, 46. 
Potato, Boiled, 27. 

Mashed, 28. 

Cakes, 28. 

Baked, 28. 

Creamed, 29. 

Soup, 44. 
Poultry, 46, 47. 
Prunes, 14. 
Prune Whip, 89, 90. 
Pudding, Cornstarch, 20, 21. 

Steamed Fruit, 88. 

Range, how to light Gas, 6. 

care of, 18. 
Raspberry Cream, 57. 
Refrigerator, care of, 17. 
Review questions on: water, 

7, 8; tea, 9; coffee, 9; 

milk, 11; chocolate, 12; 



98 



INDEX 



cocoa, 12; fruit, 14, 15; 
candy, 16, 74; house- 
keeping, 19; cornstarch, 
21; cereals, 24; rice, 26; 
potatoes, 29; eggs, 38; 
custards, 42; soups, 46, 
50; meats, 47, 52; fats, 
56; gelatine, 57; fish, 59; 
beans, 61 ; laundry work, 
64; baking powder, 68; 
bread, 70, 80, 81; cake, 
71, 72; gingerbread, 72; 
hygiene, 76; marmalades, 
77, 78; bedrooms, 83; 
salads, 87; first aid to 
injured, 87, 88; menus, 
93, 94. 
Rhubarb Marmalade, 77. 
Rice, 24. 

Boiled, 24, 25. 

manner of washing, 25. 

Molded, 25. 

Balls, 55, 56. 

Salad, 83, 87. 

Apple and celery, 85. 

Salmon, 86. 

Tomato, 86. 

Potato, 86. 
Sauce, Apple, 12. 

White, 31. 

Custard, 41. 

Lemon Cream, 89. 

Liquid, 89. 
Service, 7, 32, 33. 
Setting the Table, 7, 32. 
Silk fabrics, how to wash, 
63. 



Silver, washing, 4. 
Sink, care of, 17. 
Soiled clothes, rules for hand- 
ling, 62, 63. 
Soup, Cream, 43, 44. 

Potato, 44. 

Mock Bisque, 44. 

Corn, 45. 

Tomato, 45. 

stock, 48, 49. 
Spinach, 30. 
Sponge Cake, 71, 72. 
Stains, removal of, 63, 64. 
Starch, use of, in laundry, 62. 
Stew, Beef, 52, 53. 
Stove Blacking, use of, 18. 
Strawberry Ice, 92. 
Syrup, 16, 68. 

Table, instructions for setting 
the, 7. 

Breakfast, 32. 

Dinner, 32. 

rules for serving at, 33. 
Tea, care of, 8. 

how to brew, 8. 
Tomato, Stewed, 29, 30. 

ScaUoped, 30. 

Soup, 45. 

Veal, 46. 
Vegetables, 26-31. 
preparation of, 26, 27. 

Waitress, duties of, at table, 

33. 
Water, 7. 
Wheat Muffins, 69, 70. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



JAN 19 , 912 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 184 533 * 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



t^oU-^T (=(. i«\, la, ^T^^" 



P 



HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 



GIFT OF THE 

GRADUATE SCHOOL 

OF EDUCATION 



.vi^ 




3 2044 102 873 320 



-^ 



A HANDBOOK 

OP 

HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK 



OP 



HOME ECONOMICS 



BY 



ETTA PROCTOR FLAGG 

BXTPESVISOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN THE 
LOS ANQELES PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



BOSTON 
LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

1912 






HAKVARO COLtFGt LIIJ^ARt 

GIFT Of THE 

GRADUATE SCHOOL OF fDMCATIOl 






Copyright^ 191S^ 

By LrrrLE, Brown, and Company. 



All rit/hts rt served 



Published, January, 1012 



S. J. Parkhill & Co., Boston, U.SJL 



PREFACE 

The plan in this little book has been to give a simple 
basis for the pupil to work from, leaving the teacher 
free to present the lesson in her own way. The princi- 
pal points to be brought out are suggested by the 
questions at the end of each lesson. These questions 
are to be answered by the pupil in the spare moments 
which are so often wasted in the course of an ordinary 
cookery period. 

This course may be completed in one school year, 
or in two, according to the frequency of the lessons. 
The book is divided into two parts for the convenience 
of classes which devote two years to the subject. 



PART I 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME 

ECONOMICS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOUSEKEEPING 

Let each pupil provide herself with two large, plain, 
white aprons made from cambric, long cloth, or linen; 
avoid lawn because it wears so short a time and rumples 
so easily. In addition to the aprons, every girl should 
have her own small hand-towel and cookery holder; the 
towel need not be more than eighteen inches long, and 
the holder should not be over five inches square. 

When working in the cookery room, keep the wrists 
free from bracelets and the fingers free from rings; let 
the hair be neat and away from the face. 

Before beginning the lesson see that the hands are 
thoroughly washed and the nails well cleaned. Keep 
the hand-towel fastened at the waist, ready for imme- 
diate use. 

When the lesson is over, fold both apron and towel 
neatly and place in the locker assigned. Before leav- 
ing the class-room be sure that all utensils are in perfect 
order and, if possible, that your notes are all placed in 
your text-book. 



4 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Dish-Washing 

Clean all plates and dishes; if they are greasy, use 
brown paper; if not, scrape with a rubber scraper or 
with a case-knife. 

Arrange neatly and in the most convenient manner. 
Use hot, soapy water, filling the dishpan about one- 
third full. Change the water frequently if many dishes 
are to be washed. Rinse all dishes with clear, hot 
water and wipe with clean towels free from lint. 

Wash glassware first. If an extra polish is desired, 
wipe from the soapy water. 

After the glassware, wash the silver, then the china, 
and then the cooking utensils. 

Take fresh, hot water and wash the towels thor- 
oughly, rinse in clear water, stretch carefully and hang 
to dry; fold the dishcloth evenly and hang to dry. 

Be very careful to keep bone, ivory, or wooden handles 
of knives or forks out of the water, and make sure, 
when washing a Dover egg-beater, that only the part 
below the wheel touches the water. 

If a saucepan has become burned place a few tea- 
spoons of baking soda in the pan, fill with warm water 
and let it stand for several horn's or over night. 

Abbreviations 

tbsp. stands for tablespoon, qt. stands for quart, 
tsp. stands for teaspoon. pt. stands for pint, 

c. stands for cup. lb. stands for pound. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 5 

m. stands for minute. oz. stands for ounce, 

h. stands for hour. spk. stands for speck. 

Table of Equivalents 

3 tsp. equal 1 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. equal M c. or 3^ gill. 
2 gills equal 1 c. 

2 c. equal 1 pt. 

2 pts. equal 1 qt. 

4 qts. equal 1 gal. 

4 c. flour equal 1 lb. 

2 c. solid butter equal 1 lb. 

2 c. granulated sugar equal 1 lb. 

3 c. meal equal 1 lb. 

2 c. solid meat equal 1 lb. 
2 tbsp. butter equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. sugar equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. flour equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. liquid equal 1 oz. 

Measurements 

Flour, soda, meal, powdered, or confectioners* sugar 
should be sifted before measuring. 

A cup means a cup filled level with the top. 

A spoonful means a level spoonful. 

To get this level spoonful, use the back of a case- 
knife, drawing it smoothly across the spoon. 

One half spoonful means a spoonful divided length- 
wise. ^ 



6 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

One fourth spoonful means a spoonful divided length- 
wise and then crosswise. 

A salt spoon means one-fourth of a teaspoon. 

When measuring dry material by the cup, fill lightly 
with a spoon without shaking it down. 

FIRE-BniLDING 
To Build a Wood Fire 

Remove ashes and open drafts. 

Blacken, beginning at the back. 

Place thin layer of crmnpled paper on bottom of 
fire box. 

Arrange a loose layer of light wood over the paper. 

Place hard wood over this lightly. 

Polish while stove is heating. 

When fire is burning well, close oven-damper and 
check the drafts. 

To Build a Coal Fire 

Build like a wood fire, adding coal gradually until 
the fire box is three-fourths full. 

To Light a Gas Range 

Turn the gas on freely before lighting. 

Keep the blaze free from yellow flame and as low 
as is allowable with the heat required. 

In lighting the oven be sure that there is no free gas 
to cause an explosion. (Usually it is wiser to open the 
oven door before lighting.) 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 7 

SETTING THE TABLE 

Dust the table. Put on the silence-cloth, which 
must be perfectly smooth. 

Place tablecloth over this, center of cloth over center 
of table. Use clean linen of as fine a quality as can 
be afforded. Have the cloth long enough and wide 
enough to hang well around the table. 

Decorate by placing in the center of the table a vase 
of flowers, a fern, or a dish of fruit. 

Place plates, right side up, one at each end; then at 
the sides. Have plenty of space between each plate, 
and plates opposite one another if possible. 

Place knife on right side of plate with sharp 
edge of knife toward plate, one inch from edge of 
table. 

Place forks on left side with prongs turned up, one 
inch from edge of table. 

Place teaspoons at right of knife, bowls of spoons 
turned up. 

Place tiunbler, top up, at end of knife. 

Place butter, or bread and butter plate, in front of 
plate toward the left. 

Place napkins, neatly folded, at the left of fork. 

WATER 

Place 3^ c. water in saucepan and heat slowly. What 
rises at first? 
What collects on the bottom and sides of pan? 



8 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

When is the water simmering? How can you tell, 
and what is the temperature? 
Give the temperature of boiling water. 
How do you know when it is boiling? 
What is "hard" water? 
What is "soft" water? 

* 
TEA AND COFFEE 

Keep tea and coffee in closely covered jars or cans. 

Use enamel or nickel coffee-pots. 

Use enamel, nickel, or earthenware teapots. 

Use only freshly boiled water in making tea and 
coffee, and scald the teapot or coffee-pot thoroughly 
before using. 

Tea 

1 tsp. tea. 

1 c. boiling water. 

Put the tea in a scalded teapot and pour the boiling 
water over it. 

Steep 5 m. in a warm place. Strain, and serve either 
hot or iced. 

Boiled Coffee 

4 tbsp. coffee, ground. 
1 J^ c. boiling water. 
4 egg shells, broken fine. 
}^ c. cold water. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 9 

Mix coffee^ shells, and half of the cold water. Add 
boiling water, boil three minutes and add remaining 
cold water. Let stand 10. minutes, pour out a little to 
clear the spout, and serve. 

Filtered Coffee 

J/^ c. coffee, powdered. 
3 c. boiling water. 

Use a coffee-pot with an inside strainer. Place the 
powdered coffee in the strainer and add the boiling 
water gradually. Keep the coffee-pot covered while 
the water is filtering. Serve at once, without cooling. 



Where is tea found? 

What part of the tea plant is used? 

How is tea prepared for market? 

Name four different varieties of tea, with prices for 
each. 

Why use freshly boiled water in making tea? 

Why not boil the tea? 

When would you drink tea? 

Where does coffee grow? 

Why are tea and coffee injurious? 

In what form is coffee least injurious? 

Name the two best varieties of coffee, with price per 
pound. 



10 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

FOOD 

The food which we eat may be divided into three 
distinct classes: proteins, carbohydrates, fats. These 
will be studied in detail as we advance in the work. 
Try to remember now that protein foods are the chief 
sources of tissue and muscle, and that the carbohydrates 
and fats give us energy and fat. 

MILE 

The first food that children take is milk, and for the 
young child this seems an almost perfect food. Since 
all young children must live on it, it is necessary for 
us to know how to tell good milk and how to care for 
it. It is very diflScult to get fresh, pure milk in the 
large cities, and nothing that comes into the house 
requires more care. 

Care of Milk 

Select the best dairy you can find. Wipe milk bottles 
when brought into the house. Place in refrigerator or 
cold closet. If turned from bottles, place in glass, agate- 
ware, earthenware, granite, or aluminum, and keep 
covered. If doubtful about the purity, scald. To 
scald the milk, heat over hot water; when a bead-like 
ring forms around the edge, it is scalded. Remove 
directly. Greater heat makes the milk less digestible. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 11 

Composition of Milk 

Water, about 87%. 

Mineral matter. 

^ ^ . [casein, 
rrotein „ 

albumen. 

Fat. 

Carbohydrate. Sugar. 



What is the scum that rises to the surface of milk 
when it is scalded? 

What is pasteurized milk? 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 
Chocolate 

IJ^ to 2 squares of Baker's chocolate. 
4 tbsp. sugar. 
1 c. boiling water. 
3 c. scalded milk. 
Spk. salt. 

1. Melt the chocolate over hot water, add sugar and 
salt, and pour the boiling water over the mixture, 
stirring constantly. 

2. Place directly over the fire and cook 5 m. 

3. Add to the hot milk. 

4. Beat 1 m. with Dover egg-beater and serve. For 
special occasions 1 tsp. vanilla may be added, and 
whipped cream may be served with the chocolate. 



12 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Cocoa 

2 tbsp. cocoa. 2 c. boiling water. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. scalded milk. 

1 spk. salt. 

(A larger proportion of milk may be used.) 

1. Mix cocoa^ sugar, and salt with the water, and 
boil 5 m. 

2. Stir this into the hot milk and serve. 



From what are chocolate and cocoa obtained? 
What is the difference between the two? 
Which is the more easily digested? Why? 
Name the most nourishing part in a cup of cocoa. 
Reduce the chocolate recipe to 1 c. 
Reduce the cocoa recipe to 1 c. 
How can you prevent the thick scum from rising to 
the surface of a cup of chocolate or cocoa? 



Apple Sauce 
6 or 8 apples. \^ c. sugar. 

1. Pare, core, and cut. the apples into small pieces. 

2. Cook the apples with enough water to keep them 
from burning. When soft, add the sugar and remove 
from the fire. 

3. Cinnamon or nutmeg to suit taste may be added 
for variety. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 13 

Baked Apples 

Wash and core apples. Place in baking-dish, fill 
center with sugar, and cover the bottom of the baking- 
dish with hot water. Bake until soft. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 c. cranberries. 

1 c. boiling water. 

2 c. sugar. 

1. Look over cranberries and wash them. Cook 
cranberries and water 20. m. 

2. Press through a strainer. Add the sugar and 
cooks m. 

3. Pour into cold, wet molds, or glasses. 



Name the two classes of fruits. 

Give the general composition. 

What is the chief food value? 

What fruits are included under the name citrus? 

What gives them this name? 

Name two varieties of good cooking apples. 

Give the average cost per pound. 

How many average-sized apples make a pound? 

Where do most of the cranberries come from? 

When are they at their best? 

What is the average cost per pound? 



14 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

What fruits are more wholesome cooked than un. 
cooked? 

What fruits may be exposed safely on the public 
streets? 

Why? 

DRIED FRUITS 
Prunes 

Wash thoroughly, soak over night, and cook slowly 
until the skins are tender. When nearly done, sweeten 
slightly. Stick cinnamon, or a little juice and rind of 
lemon, may be used to vary the flavor. 

Peaches 

Wash the dried peaches carefully, cover with water 
and let stand over night. In the morning cook slowly 
imtil tender; then add a very small amount of sugar. 

Apricots 

Treat in the same way as the others, but add more 
sugar. Prunes and apricots may be mixed together, 
half and half, and treated as either one would be treated 
separately. 



What is the difference in composition between the 
fresh and dried fruits? 
How is this lack supplied? 
Why is the long cooking desirable? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 15 

Name three dried fruits rich in sugar. What per 
cent of sugar do they contain? 

How are fruits dried? 

What do we need to be very careful about in their 
preparation? 

At what season of the year would you use dried fruits 
freely? 



Nut Brittle 

1 c. sugar. 
5^ to 1 c. nuts, shelled and broken in pieces. 

1. Put sugar in saucepan to heat, and when it begins 
to melt on the bottom of the saucepan stir it until it 
becomes a thin, light brown syrup with no liunps. 
(Keep the sugar stirred down from the .sides of the pan.) 

2. Add nuts immediately and pour quickly on a 
buttered plate or platter; mark in squares as soon as 
the knife does not stick to the candy. (A tin plate need 
not be buttered.) When cold, break in pieces. 

Fudge 

2 c. sugar. 2 tbsp. butter. 

3^ to 1 c. milk. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 to 13^ sq. unsweetened chocolate, or 4 tbsp. cocoa. 

1. Heat milk and sugar and, when sugar is dissolved, 
add the chocolate. Boil until it reaches the soft-ball 
stage, stirring until chocolate is melted. 



16 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

2. Remove from fire^ add the butter and vanilla^ 
and beat mitil creamy and thickened. Pour quickly 
into a greased tin. When firm, cut in squares. 

Syrup 

2 c. sugar. }/$ c. water. 

Place in saucepan and stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Boil slowly, without stirring, until a light syrup is 
made. Remove and cool. Color with caramel and 
flavor with lemon, if desired. 



What is the price of confectioners' sugar? 

How many cups of granulated sugar make a pound? 

How many cups of confectioners' sugar make a pound? 

How do you caramelize sugar? 

Estimate the cost of the nut brittle and give it in 
itemized form. 

Estimate the cost of the fudge in the same way. 

To what class of foods does sugar belong? 

What does it do in the body? 

Why should we not eat large quantities of sugar in 
any form? 

Where is beet sugar made? 

In what section do we find maple sugar? 

How is maple sugar made? 

What is the price of granulated sugar? 

What does cane sugar come from, and how is it made? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS . 17 

HOUSEKEEPING 
Care of Refrigerator / 

Look over the refrigerator daily to see that no food 
is left to spoil. Food with a strong flavor, or hot food, 
should not be put into the refrigerator. 

Once a week every part of the refrigerator should be 
washed with a solution of washing-soda, a dish mop 
being used. Rinse, wipe as dry as possible, and air 
thoroughly before using again. Flush the waste-pipe 
with the soda solution. 

Care of the Sink 

Always pour dishwater through a sink strainer, and 
put the refuse left in strainer in garbage pail. 

When dish-washing is finished, wash every part of 
the sink and sink strainer with hot, soapy water. Wash 
above and around the sink, and use a scrubbing brush 
and a skewer when necessary. 

Flush the sink with boiling water every day, and 
about once a week with a strong, hot solution of washing- 
soda. (Cover 1 c. washing-soda with 6 qts. boiling 
water and let remain on the fire until all the soda is 
dissolved. Pour this, boiling hot, into the pipes, using 
2 to 3 qts. for each sink.) 

Garbage 

Garbage should be burned, or should be put into 
large pails to be collected several times a week. These 



18 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

garbage pails should be cleaned thoroughly with the 
hose, after emptying, and dried well in the sun. When 
necessary, a strong, hot solution of washing-soda should 
be used to clean them. 

Scraps in the kitchen should be put into a granite- 
ware pail. This scrap pail should be emptied into the 
garbage pail every day. It should be washed as any 
other dish and thoroughly dried. Once a week it should 
be washed with the soda solution. 

Care of the Range 

When grease or other material is spilled on the range 
while cooking is being done, rub off at once with paper. 

Beside cleaning out the ashes from the range every 
day, the space above and below the oven should be 
cleaned out about once a month, as the soot and ashes 
collected there prevent the proper heating of the oven. 

Never blacken the range without cleaning it first. 
Moisten some stove polish with cold water and rub it 
over the range with a brush or cloth. Blacken when 
stove is cold. 

Use a dry brush for polishing, rubbing very briskly. 
Begin at front of range when the stove is warm. 

To Clean Metals 

Always wash articles carefully before cleaning. After 
cleaning, wash in hot water containing ammonia, and 
dry carefully. The following cleansing agents may be 
used: 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 19 

Tin. — Sapolio or silver-polish; whiting, moistened 
with anunonia, alcohol, or water. 

Steel Knives. — Brick or SapoUo. 

Silver. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with 
ammonia, alcohol, or water. 

Gold. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with am- 
monia, alcohol, or water. 

Copper. — Vinegar and salt, then ammonia. 

Brass. — Vinegar and salt, then anunonia. 

Zinc. — Whiting moistened with vinegar, or powdered 
pumice. 

Iron. — Rub with oil, then scour with ashes or pumice- 
stone. 

Nickel. — Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with 
ammonia, alcohol, or water. 



What is the difference between an ice-box and a 
refrigerator? 
Which requires the more ice? 
Why? 

How may you keep the ice from melting rapidly? 
Why should you frequently flush the sink-pipes? 
How should you care for a gas range? 
Name a standard silver-polish. 
Which is the cheapest silver-polish? 



20 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Experiments 

Mix 1 tsp. cornstarch with J^ c. cold water. State 
result. 

Mix 1 tsp. cornstarch with 3^ c. boiling water. State 
result. 

Mix 2 tsp. cornstarch with }/^ c. cold water, and stir 
into }4 c* boiling water. State result. 

Taste this mixture; then boil 15 m. and taste again. 
What diflFerence do you notice? 

Mix 2 tsp. cornstarch with 4 tsp. sugar, and stir 
into }/g c. boiUng water. State result. 

Cream 1 tsp. flour with 1 tsp*. butter, and stir into 
^ c. boiling water. State result. 



Cornstarch Pudding 

1 pt. milk. 1 sq. chocolate. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 1 spk. salt. 

4 tbsp. cornstarch. 34 c. sugar. 

1. Fill mold with cold water. 

2. Scald milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, 
sugar, and enough cold milk to make a smooth paste. 

3. Pour the hot milk over this, stir, return to the 
double boiler and cook 30 m., stirring all the time 
until thick, and occasionally afterwards. 

4. Remove from the fire, add flavoring, and pour 
into the mold. 



-H 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 21 

5. Chocolate may be melted over hot water and added 
when the cornstarch begins to thicken. 
Serve cold, with sugar and cream, or milk. 

Pineapple' Cream 

2 c. milk. 

3 tbsp. cornstarch. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 
Spk. salt. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 

4 tbsp. grated pineapple. 

Cook as for cornstarch pudding; remove from fire 
and fold in lightly the whites of the eggs, beaten stiflF, 
and the grated pineapple. Serve cold with cream. 



To what class of foods does cornstarch belong? 
What is its special use in the body? 

CEREALS 

The most important cereal food products are those 
prepared from wheat, com, rice, and oats. 

Composition 

"Cereals contain all the food principles; they aver- 
age about two-thirds carbohydrates, one-tenth protein, 
one-tenth water, and they contain a little fat and min- 
eral matter.'' 



22 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Their chief value, however, lies in their starch com- 
position, and because of this they require thorough 
cooking. 



Rules for Cooking 

Allow J^ tsp. salt to 1 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. rolled cereal to 2 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. coarse cereal to 3 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. fine cereal to 4 c. boiling water. 

Add salt to water and stir in cereal with a fork. Cook 
directly over the fire for five minutes, stirring constantly, 
then place in double boiler or fireless cooker. 

Cook the coarse grains 7 or 8 h. 

Cook the rolled grains in double boiler 45 or 60 m. 

Cook the fine grains in double boiler 30 or 45 m. 



Gruels 

In many cases of sickness the patient is unable to 
take any solid food, and a gruel is prescribed by the 
physician. This is nothing but a cereal cooked with a 
much larger proportion of water; usually we use one 
tablespoonf ul of the cereal to one cup of water or milk, 
and cook very thoroughly. The gruel is then strained, 
seasoned with salt, and served very hot. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 23 

Indian Meal Gruel 
4 tbsp. yellow corn meal. 4 c. boiling water. 

Blend meal with a little cold water and stir into boil- 
ing water. Boil gently 2 hrs. Salt to taste. Sweeten if 
necessary, and add milk if desired. Strain, and serve 
hot. 

Flour Gruel 

1 c. milk. Spk. salt. 

1 tbsp. flour. 1 doz. raisins. 

Stone and quarter raisins, then add water to cover 
them; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. 
Add to gruel just before serving. 

Gruel : Mix the flour with a little cold milk and stir 
into scalded milk. Cook in a double boiler }/^ h., first 
boiling well over the fire. Add salt and raisins; strain 
and serve. 

Note. — Do not use the raisins if the patient has 
bowel trouble. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

2 tbsp. rolled oats. 
1 c. boiling water. 
3^ tsp. salt. 

Boil }4 h- or longer, strain, thin with hot milk, and 
serve. 



24 A HANDBCX)K OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Barley Gruel 

1 tbsp. barley flour. 
1 c. water. 
3^ tsp. salt. 

Mix flour with a little cold water, stir into boiling 
water, boil 30 m., thin with hot milk, strain, and serve. 



Why serve cereals stiff enough to chew? 

What fruits are most satisfactory to serve with them? 

Why not acid fruits? 

Why cook at first directly over the fire? 

Which cereals are the more diificult to digest? 

What is the advantage in buying cereals by the pack- 
age? What is the disadvantage? 

Name those that may be bought in bulk, and give 
the difference in price per pound. 

RICE 

Rice contains more starch and less fat than any 
other grain. It is a good food for people in tropical 
countries and is very easily digested. It should be 
combined with eggs, milk, or meat. 

Boiled Rice 

3 qts. boiling water. 
1 c. well washed rice. 
1 tbsp. salt. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 25 

To wash rice well, put into a strainer and set in a 
deep dish of cold water. Rub the rice, and lift the 
strainer in and out of the water, changing the water 
imtil it is clear. 

Drain, drop the rice into the boiling water slowly, 
and lift up grains of rice from bottom of pan with a 
fork until the water is boiling rapidly again. Cook 20 
m. to 3^ h., or until soft, and add the salt when nearly 
done. 

^ Drain in the strainer and dry in an open oven, or 
leave in stewpan, cover with napkin, and set back on 
stove to steam and become dry. 

Save water in which the rice is boiled and use for 
soup, gravy, or rice pudding. 

Molded Rice 

1 c. well washed rice. 

2 c. hot milk. 

1 c. boiling water. 
1 tsp. salt. 

Scald milk in a double boiler, add rice, boiling water 
and salt, cover and let cook 45 m., or until kernels are 
soft. When cooked, uncover, that the steam may 
escape. (More water and less milk may be used.) 

Place a layer of rice in cup. 

Add layer of prepared dates, another layer of rice. 
Press firmly together. Turn from cups and serve with 
sugar and cream or milk. 



26 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Where does rice grow freely? 

To what class of foods does it belong? 

What vegetables may we substitute for it? 

How does it differ from the potato in composition? 

If used as a cereal, what proportions of water to rice 
would be necessary? 

Name three different ways in which it may be 
served. 

What is the average price per pound? 

Estimate cost of the molded rice recipe. 



VEGETABLES 

Select vegetables carefully. Wash or scrub thor- 
oughly, and if wilted, soak well before using. Choose 
those of medium size rather than large; buy when in 
season and use freely. 



Preparation 

Asparagus. — Wash, cut in inch pieces, or leave 
whole. 

Beans, shell. — Shell and wash. 

Beans, string. — Remove ends and string; cut in 
inch pieces. 

Beets. — Scrub well, but do not cut. 

Brussels sprouts. — Remove outside leaves and 
stand in salted water 20 m. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 27 

Cabbage. — Remove outside leaves; cut in large 
pieces; remove core; wash twice, and drain. 

Catdifloiver. — Wash; remove outside leaves; stand 
upside down in salted water 20 m. 

Carrots. — Wash and scrape off the thin skin. 

Com. — Husk; remove silk and wash. 

Onions. — Peel and wash. 

Parsnips. — Wash and scrub. 

Peas. — Shell and wash. 

Potatoes. — Wash and pare; make a thin paring. 

Summer squash. — Wash, and cut in small pieces. 

Spinach. — Remove tough stems and wilted leaves. 
Wash in five waters. 

Turnips. — Wash and pare; make a thin paring. 



Boiled Potatoes 

Select potatoes of medium size. Wash thoroughly, 
using a vegetable brush, and pare as thinly as possible, 
leaving them in cold water until ready to cook. 

Cook in boiling, salted water, covered, until a fork 
pierces them easily (from 20 to 25 m.). Allow 1 tbsp. 
salt to 7 potatoes. The boiling water should cover the 
potatoes. 

When done, drain off the water and shake the pan 
until the potatoes are dry and mealy. 

Set on back of stove to keep warm, covered with a 
folded napkin or clean towel. Serve uncovered. 



28 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Mashed Potatoes 

1 pt. mashed potatoes. 

3 tbsp. hot milk or more. 

2 tbsp. butter. 
l^ tsp. salt. 

1 spk. pepper. 

Cook potatoes as directed above and, when dry, 
mash at once in the pan in which they were cooked. 

Add milk, butter, and seasonings, and beat with fork 
until white and creamy. 

Reheat; pile lightly in a hot dish and serve uncovered. 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potato into small round cakes 
and roll in flour. Butter a hot frying-pan, put in cakes, 
brown one side, turn and brown the other side, adding 
butter as needed to prevent binning. Remove to hot 
platter and serve. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select smooth, medium-sized potatoes and scrub 
them well with a brush. 

Bake in shallow pan on rack of a hot oven until 
soft, about 45 m. Turn occasionally. Serve at once 
in an uncovered dish. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 29 

Creamed Potatoes 

1 tbsp. butter. 34 tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1 spk. pepper. 

1 c. milk. 1/^ c. potatoes. 

Make a white sauce. 

Add 13^ e. cold boiled potatoes, cut in half -inch dice. 
Cook until potatoes are thoroughly heated. Add a 
little chopped parsley, if liked. 



Slice a small potato very thin. Place in a glass of 
cold water and allow to stand for one-half hour or more. 
Notice the appearance of the water. What has taken 
place? 

Hold a slice of the potato to the light. Draw, care- 
fully, its appearance. 

Boil the water in which the sliced potato stood. 
What change takes place? 

What causes this change? 

Where does most of the mineral matter of the potato 
lie? 

Why should one not use potato water in cooking? 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Remove skins by placing in boiling water a few 
minutes. They will then peel off easily. Cut in pieces 
and stew in a granite saucepan until tender. To each 



30 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

cup of tomatoes add 1 tsp. butter, J^ tsp. salt, li. tsp. 
sugar, spk. pepper. Thicken, if desired, with 2 tbsp. 
cracker crumbs. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes or 1 can. 

1 tsp. salt. 

34 tsp. pepper. 

1 tbsp. sugar. 

\y^2 c. bread crumbs 

2-4 tbsp. butter. 

Mix melted butter and crumbs. Sprinkle layer in 
bottom of baking-dish. Pour in half the tomato, 
scatter half the crumbs over this, add remaining tomato, 
cover with crumbs. Brown in a quick oven. 



Spinach 

Freshen four bunches of spinach, pick over carefully, 
and wash in five different waters. Place in a saucepan 
without any water. Cover the saucepan, stirring occa- 
sionally to prevent burning; cook 5 m. Drain in a 
colander and chop fine. 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter in saucepan, add 1 tbsp. flour, 
J^ tsp. salt, 3^ tsp. pepper. Then stir in 34 c. vinegar 
and 3^ c. water and add 2 tbsp. sugar. Stir constantly 
and, when thickened, add the spinach. Serve, gar- 
nished with hard cooked eggs. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 31 

Why is spinach good for us? 
How else may it be served? 

White Sauce 

1 e. milk. 

2 tbsp. flour. 

1 tbsp. butter. 
yi tsp. salt. 
Spk. pepper. 

Melt butter, add flour, salt, pepper, stir well to- 
gether, add part of milk and stir until smooth and 
thick. Add half remaining milk, stir until boiling; add 
remaining milk and boil. 

Creamed Carrots 

2 c. cubed, cooked carrots. 
1 c. white sauce. 

Prepare carrots according to directions, cut into ^^ 
inch dice, boil until tender in salted water, drain, and 
serve in white sauce. 

Young carrots will cook in twenty to thirty minutes; 
the older ones will require one hour. 

Green Peas 

Prepare peas as directed. Wash the pods carefully 
and boil in a small quantity of water. Cook the peas 
in this water. 



32 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

If young and fresh, the peas will cook in thirty 
minutes; when old, allow forty-five to sixty minutes. 
Drain, season with salt and butter, and serve. If de- 
sired, the liquid may be thickened like a white sauce 
and the peas served in this. 

Always save the liquid in which peas have been 
cooked, as it may be used in soups. 



SERVICE 
The Breakfast Table 

Arrange cups and saucers, creamer and sugar bowl, in 
front of the hostess. A coffee-stand should be placed 
at the right of the hostess for the coffee-pot. 

All heavy dishes are placed in front of the host, so 
that he may serve. 

With fruit, finger bowls should be used. 

The Dinner Table 

The carving set and knife and fork rests should be 
laid in front of the host. The host serves the fish and 
meat. 

The soup ladle should be placed in front of the host- 
ess, handle to the right. The hostess should serve the 
soup, salad, dessert, and coffee, and usually the vege- 
tables. 

The soup spoons should be placed at the right of 
the knives at each place, bowls up. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 33 

Rules for Serving 

Cold food should be served on cold dishes, hot food 
on hot dishes. 

Never fill glasses or cups more than three-fourths 
full. Fill before each course. 

Do not let the table become disorderly during the 
meal. 

When passing a dish, hold it so that the thmnb will 
not rest upon the upper surface. 

The waitress should stand at the back of the hostess, 
or while the meat is being carved, at the back of the 
host. She should take each plate from the left as it is 
ready to serve, in her right hand, and place it before 
the person for whom it is intended. Everything is 
served at the left, except liquids in glasses, or cups and 
saucers. 

In passing dishes from which a person is to help 
himself, pass always to the left side, so that the food 
may be taken with the right hand. 

All soiled dishes should be removed from the left. 
The waitress should never pile one dish upon another. 

When one course is finished, soiled dishes should be 
removed first, then food, then clean dishes, then 
crumbs. 

When folding the tablecloth or napkins always fold 
very carefully in the same creases. 



PART n 



EGGS 

Eggs are a tissue-building food, the chief protein 
being a form of albumen. In food value and in digesti- 
bility they compare favorably with meat, and during 
the spring and summer should be freely used. 

When an egg is perfectly fresh it will sink to the 
bottom of a brine made in the proportion of two ounces 
of salt to one pint of water; if stale, the egg will float 
upon the surface. If a stale egg is shaken gently it will 
give a rattling sound. 

Soft-cooked Eggs 

Place egg in stewpan of boiling water, using a spoon. 
Cover closely and place where water will keep hot, but 
where it will not boil. Cook 6 to 8 m. 

ft 

Hard-cooked Eggs 

Place egg in stewpan of boiling water, using a spoon. 
Cover closely and place where water will keep hot, but 
where it will not boil. Cook 40 to 45 m. 

[ Poached Eggs on Toast 

Have a shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling, salted 
water, allowing 1 tsp. salt to 1 pt. water. Put a slightly 
buttered muffin-ring in the water. 



38 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Break egg carefully into a cup and slip into muffin- 
ring. The water should cover the egg. 

When there is a film on top, and the white is firm, 
carefully take up ring and egg with a buttered griddle- 
cake turner and place egg on a circular piece of buttered 
toast. 



Pour boiling water over the white of an egg and boil 
hard. How does it appear? 

Fry a httle in hot fat. What is the effect? 

Pour some water heated to 180° F. over the white 
and let stand five minutes. What is the appearance? 

Why should you not cook your eggs at 212° F.? 

How much water do you need to use when cooking 
one egg in the shell? 

When cooking four? 

Name the different parts of an egg. 

Why does an egg become "stale"? 

How many eggs of average size in a pound? 

Compare the cost of steak and eggs. 

Scrambled Eggs 

4 eggs. }/2 tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. milk. Spk. pepper. 

3^ tbsp. butter. 

Beat eggs slightly with a fork, add milk and season- 
ing. Melt butter in saucepan, turn in the egg mixture. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 39 

and stir over a slow fire until it begins to set. Remove 
from fire and cook over hot water until firm, but not 
hard. Serve at once on slices of buttered toast. 

Light Omelet 

2 eggs. 3^ tsp. salt. 

1 tsp. butter. 1 spk. pepper. 

2 tbsp. water. 

Separate yolk from white of eggs. Beat yolks until 
light and creamy, add salt, pepper, and water. Beat 
whites until stiff, cut, and fold them into the yolks. 

Heat omelet pan, and butter sides and bottom. Turn 
in the mixture, spread evenly, place where it will cook 
slowly, occasionally turning the pan that omelet may 
brown evenly. 

When omelet is well risen and delicately browned 
underneath, place pan on oven grate to finish cooking. 
Fold and turn upon a hot platter. 

French Omelet 
3 eggs. ]/2 tsp. salt. Spk. pepper. 

Beat the eggs, with the seasoning, just enough to 
break the yolks. Melt }/^ tsp. butter in a frying-pan. 
Turn in the egg mixture, and with a fork lift the cooked 
portions of the egg, allowing the liquid on top to run 
down underneath. When the egg is cooked, but still 
quite soft on top, slip the knife underneath and roll 



40 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

the omelet to the center. Let it cook for a moment, 
then turn upon a hot platter. Serve at once. 



Estimate cost of each recipe and note the number of 
people it will serve. 

Egg Vennicelli 

3^ tbsp. butter. \i tsp. salt. 

2J^ tbsp. flour. 1 spk. pepper. 

IJ^ c. milk. 4 to 6 slices toasted bread. 

3 hard-cooked eggs. 

Make a white sauce of the first five ingredients. 

Chop the whites of the eggs, add to the white sauce, 
and pour over the toasted bread. 

Press the yolks through a strainer and sprinkle over 
the top. 

General Rules for Custards 

When using milk and eggs together in cooking, cook 
them at a low temperature. Soft custards should be 
cooked in a double boiler. Baked custards should be 
set in a pan of hot water while baking. 

When putting hot milk and cold ^gg together, pour 
the milk on the ^%% very slowly, while stirring. 

Stir a soft custard all the time while cooking, and 
when done take out of the hot water immediately. 

Should the custard curdle, place the saucepan in cold 
water and beat the custard with a Dover egg-beater. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 41 

A soft custard is done when it forms a coating on a 
spoon. 

A baked custard is done when a silver knife inserted 
in the custard comes out clean. 

Custard Sauce 

13^ c. milk. }/s *sp. salt. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 3^ tsp. vanilla. 

}4: c» sugar. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the egg yolk 
slightly, add the sugar and salt. 

Pour the hot milk over this mixture, stirring until 
the egg is all removed from the sides of the bowl. 

Return to the double boiler, and cook until a 
coating is formed. Strain the custard and, when cool, 
flavor. 

Three egg yolks must be used if the custard is not to 
be used as a sauce. 

Baked Custards 

2 c. milk. yi c sugar. 

3 eggs. }/i tsp. salt. 
1 tsp. vanilla or a little grated nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together imtil light. Add 
milk and vanilla. Pour into buttered custard cups. 
Stand in pan of hot water. 

Bake in oven until custards are firm in the middle. 
Turn out when cold. 



42 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Estimate cost of the egg vermicelli. 
How could you turn the plain baked custard into a 
caramel custard? 
When should custard desserts be served? 



MILK 
Signs of Good Milk 

There should be no sediment of dirt after standing. 
There should be about one-sixth the total depth of 
cream — the narrowing neck of the bottle may make it 
seem even more. The milk should keep sweet twenty- 
four hours, and when it tastes sour it should separate 
into curds and whey, not be simply a uniform white 
mass, as is likely to happen when soda is used to keep 
it." 1 



«i 



Cottage Cheese 

Heat thick, sour milk over hot water until the whey 
separates. Place in cheesecloth and let drain until no 
whey remains. Salt to taste, adding a little cream to 
give the right consistency. Shape into balls of the de- 
sired size. 

Butter 

Use thick, sour cream. If a large amount, place in 
churn; if small, beat with spoon or egg-beater. When 
small globules of butter have formed, drain ofif the 

^ Mrs. Richards's " Food Materials and their Adulterations." 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 43 

buttermilk^ wash in clear^ cold water^ salt to taste^ and 
shape in rolls or balls. 

Junket or Thick Milk 

1 qt. milk. 2 tbsp. cold water. 

1 junket tablet. 34 c. sugar. 

Flavoring: vanilla^ nutmeg. 
(1 tbsp. liquid rennet may be used instead of junket.) 

Place the milk in double boiler and warm it. Do 
not let it become hot. 

Add the rennet dissolved in the cold water, and stir. 
Add flavoring. 

Keep in a warm place till thick. Then set in a cool 
place, taking care not to shake it. 

Serve cold with a custard sauce. 



Why does milk sour? 

What is the curd of the milk composed of? 

What is cheese a substitute for? 

What is condensed milk? 

What is certified milk? 

CREAM SOUPS 

Cream soups are a combination of strained, cooked 
vegetable pulp and white sauce; sometimes a small 
amount of white stock is also used. The proportions 
are equal parts of pulp and white sauce. The vegetables 



44 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

generally used are peas, beans, com, asparagus, celery, 
and potatoes. 

Usually the vegetable is cooked in a small quantity 
of water, and this is mixed with the pulp before meas- 
uring and adding to the white sauce, but with potatoes 
the water is not used. 

The amount of starch in the vegetable used will make 
it necessary for more or less flour to be used in the 
white sauce; the final consistency of the soup should 
be that of good cream. If the soup stands any length 
of time it will become too thick, but may be thinned 
with hot milk. Allow one cup of soup for each person 
when planning your meal. 

Potato Soup 

1 c. potatoes. 3 tbsp. butter. 

3 c. milk. 2 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. water. )^ tsp. salt. 

1 stalk celery. Spk. pepper. 

yi onion. Spk. celery salt. 

Boil potatoes, and mash. Cook milk, celery, and onion 
together 20 m. in double boiler. Add to potato, thicken 
as for white sauce, strain, and serve at once. 

Mock Bisque Soup 

2 c. milk. 3 tbsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. flour. Spk. pepper. 

2 c. tomato juice. yi tsp. baking soda. 

J^ tsp. salt. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 45 

Combine milk, butter, flom*, salt, and pepper as for 
white sauce. Heat tomato and stir in soda, let the 
mixture stand 5 m., add to the white sauce, heat, and 
serve inunediately. 

Com Soup 

J^ pt. water. 2 tbsp. minced onion. 

1 pt. canned corn. 3^ tsp. salt. 

1 pt. white sauce (thin). }/^ tsp. pepper. 

3^ tsp. celery salt. 

Cook corn and water fifteen minutes. Strain. Cook 
the onion in the milk, in a double boiler, before making 
the white sauce. Add the strained corn pulp and sea- 
soning to white sauce, and serve. 

Tomato Soup 

1 pt. strained tomato juice. 

1 pt. water in which peas and pea pods have been 
cooked. 

1 tbsp. onion. 

2 tbsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. flour. 
1 tsp. salt. 

}/^ tsp. paprika. 

Brown the onion in the butter, add the flour, salt, 
pepper, and stir the tomato juice in slowly. Strain 
into the pea liquid, heat, and serve. 



46 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Why do you use soda in the mock bisque and not in 
the other tomato soup? 
Estimate the cost of the corn soup. 
When would you usually serve cream soup? 



MEAT 

The most important of the protein foods are found 
among the different varieties of meat. All meat is 
composed of water, protein and fat, the proportions of 
each varying in different cuts from the same animal, 
and in different animals. 

Beef is more commonly used than any other meat. 
It is best when taken from a young, full-grown animal, 
four to eight years old. The lean meat should be firm 
yet juicy, and should turn a bright red when cut. The 
fat should be generous in amount, creamy white in 
color, and firm to the touch. 

Next to beef, in importance, stands mutton; this, 
like beef, is found in the market the year round, and, 
if the sheep be not more than three or four years old, 
is good. The lean meat should be bright red in color, 
fine grained and juicy. The fat, however, is stronger 
in taste, whiter in color, harder in appearance, and less 
digestible than beef fat. 

Veal, lamb, and pork are less digestible than beef 
and mutton and require more thorough cooking. 

Poultry includes all domestic fowls; it is more expen- 
sive than the varieties of meat already mentioned, and 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 47 

likewise contains less nourishment, but the flavor is 
usually more delicate. 

Game includes all varieties of wild animals used as 
food, such as venison, bear, partridge, quail, rabbits, 
wild turkeys, and squirrel. 



Pull a small piece of lean meat apart. 

What is the protein of meat called? 

Scrape a small piece of meat. 

Cook and taste both the portion scraped and that 
remaining. (Cook in the frying-pan.) 

What is the effect of heat on the meat? 

Which portion is palatable? 

Place a small piece of lean meat in cold water; after 
fifteen minutes note the result. 

Pour boiling water over a piece of meat. What 
happens? 

What causes the change to take place? 

Where have you seen the same result before? 



48 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 




Diagram of side of beef. 

1. Neck. 5. Sirloin. 

2. Chuck. 6. Rump. 

3. Rib. 7. Round. 

4. Short Loin. 8. Flank. 



9. Shank. 

10. Plate. 

11. Clod. 



Where will we find the tender meat in an animal? 
Name the three cuts that are the least tender. 
What are these used for? 



Soup Stock 

6 lbs. shin of beef, well broken. 
6 qts. cold water. 
1 tbsp. salt. 
12 pepper-coms. 
6 cloves. 



J^ c. onions. 
J^ c. carrot. 
J^ c. turnip. 
J^ c. celery. 
2 sprigs parsley. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 49 

Remove Yi lb- lean meat. Wash meat and bone 
carefully. Put all but the half pound into the cold 
water and let stand 15 m., then bring slowly to boil- 
ing point. Brown the diced vegetables in the marrow 
fat, skim from the spider, and place with the meat. 
Add the lean meat, cut fine, and brown that in the 
remaining fat. Add this to the boiling stock and let 
the whole simmer for 5 to 6 h. Add salt just before 
removing from fire. 

Strain and cool. When ready to serve, remove fat 
and reheat. (If a brown color is not desired, place all 
the meat and vegetables in the cold water at once.) 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices and remove 
the crusts; spread thinly with butter; cut the slices in 
one-half inch squares, lay in pan buttered side up; put 
in the oven and bake until a light brown, or brown, 
without adding any butter. 

Beef Tea 

3 lbs. round steak. 
1 qt. cold water. 

Cut into half-inch cubes, place in bowl and pour 
water over, let stand one hour, simmer 2 to 3 h. 
Strain, season, cool, remove fat, reheat, and serve. 
(Season with salt alone, unless the physician says 
pepper may be used.) 



60 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

In sickness the physician often prescribes broth or 
beef tea, which is a form of simple soup stock. 



Mutton Broth 

2 lb. neck of mutton. 
1 slice onion (medium size). 
1 qt. water (cold). 
}4: tsp. salt. 

Cut meat into small pieces, place in bowl with sea- 
soning and water, let stand 1 h. Simmer 3 to 4 h. 
Strain, cool, remove fat, reheat, and serve. (Beef 
broth may be made in the same way, using meat from 
the round.) 

Beef Extract 
1 lb. of beef from top of round. 

Wipe meat, remove all fat, and cut into small pieces. 
Place in quart fruit jar and put on cover. Place on 
trivet in kettle and surround with cold water. 

Let water heat slowly, care being taken that it does 
not boil. Allow the meat to stand in water for 2 h. 

Strain; press the meat to obtain all the juices. Salt, 
or not, as the physician directs. 



Name four different soups that may be served, using 
the same stock for each soup. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 51 

Broiled Steak 
Meat: 

Top of the round. 

Porterhouse steak. 

Sirloin steak. 

T-bone or short steak. 
Thickness: 

One to one and a half inches. 
Time: 

One inch, — 8 m. 

One and a half inches, — 11m. 
Directions: 

Trim, remove superfluous fat; 

Rub granite or iron pan with a little fat; 

Place under hot gas in broiling oven; 

In 4 m. turn, or 

Rub a broiler with a little fat; 

Prepare a bed of coals (glowing red) ; 

Place meat in broiler directly over coals; 

When seared on under surface, turn; 

Then turn every 2 or 3 m. 
Test when done: 

Brown on surface, puffed up and elastic in appear- 
ance. When cut there should be a thin crust, and the 
rest should have an even, red color. 

Pan-broiled Steak 

Prepare as before. Have cast-iron griddle smoking 
hot, place meat on griddle, sear quickly on one side, 



62 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

turn and sear the other side, and turn once or twice 
more. Cook a little longer than when directly over the 
fire. 



How can you recognize porterhouse steak? 
Draw the shape. 
The short steak? 
Draw the shape. 

Why do the juices of steak remain in the meat when 
it is properly cooked? 
How may round steak be made more tender? 
a. 
b. 

Broiled Meat Cakes 

Buy round steak and run it through the meat-grinder. 
To 1 lb. of meat add 

2 tbsp. minced onion. 
^ tsp. salt. 
}4c tsp. pepper. 

Mix lightly together and shape into small flat cakes. 
Cook as you would pan-broiled steak. 

Beef Stew 

1 lb. meat, neck or round. 
3 potatoes, medium size. 

2 carrots, medium size. 
2 turnips, medium size. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 53 

1 onion, medium size. 

3 tbsp. beef fat or marrow from bone. 
1 qt. water. 

1 tsp. salt. 
3^ tsp. celery salt. 
3^ tsp. pepper. 
3^ tsp. paprika. 

4 tbsp. flom*. 

Cut the tender meat into pieces about one and a 
half inches square. Place any bone there may be, and 
the tough pieces of meat, in cold water, and bring slowly 
to the boiling-point. Roll the tender pieces of meat in 
the flour, and brown in the beef fat or marrow. Add to 
the rest of the meat and simmer 3 or 4 h. 

Prepare the vegetables, cut into half-inch dice and 
add to the boiling stew. Allow 3^ h. for the carrots, 
turnips, and oniops, and 20 m. for the potatoes. (Par- 
boil the potatoes before adding.) 

Remove th,e bone and tough portions of the meat, 
season to taste, thicken to the consistency of a thin 
white sauce, and serve with dumplings. 

Dumplings 

1 c. flour. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

3^ tsp. salt. Milk. 

Sift all the ingredients into a bowl. Add milk to 
make a soft dough. 



54 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Drop by spoonfuls into the boiling stew, cover closely 
and cook 15 m. without removing cover. 

Be careful not to have too much liquid, or the dump- 
lings will be heavy. 



Why do you tfrown the tender meat? 
Why place the rest in cold water? 
Why parboil the potatoes? 
Estimate the cost of the beef stew. 



Left-over Meat Dishes 



Remove all bone and gristle, and most of the fat. 
Use the bones in making soup stock or a sauce in which 
to serve the meat. Season the meat highly. Combine 
with potato, rice, macaroni, or spaghetti. If possible, 
use a little tomato with the meat. If the meat is tender, 
simply reheat; if tough, simmer until tender. 



Cottage Pie 

2 e. cooked meat (diced fine). 
2-33^ c. meat sauce, onion flavor. 

3 c. mashed potato. 

Place meat in baking-dish, pour sauce over, cover 
with mashed potato, and brown in a quick oven. Serve 
hot. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 55 

Scalloped Mutton 

Remove the fat and skin from cold roast mutton; 
chop, and season with salt and pepper. 

Butter a shallow baking-dish; put in a layer of 
crumbs, then a layer of meat. 

Next put in a layer of tomato sauce or brown gravy, 
and one of cold boiled macaroni, if liked. 

Continue in this order until the dish is nearly full. 

On top spread a thick layer of crumbs mixed with 
2 tbsp. melted butter. 

Bake in a hot oven till the crumbs are brown. 

Hash 

Mix and heat together equal parts of chopped, 
cooked meat and chopped, boiled potatoes. 

If dry, add 1 tbsp. butter or beef drippings, and 
2 tbsp. hot water, to every 2 c. of hash. 

Season with salt and pepper, adding onion juice, 
parsley, or other seasoning, if desired. 

Rice Balls 

2 tbsp. boiled rice. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 tsp. chopped meat (beef, mutton, chicken, etc.) 

Spread rice on square of cheesecloth, and place 
seasoned meat in the center. Take up the cloth and 
form a solid ball, having the rice entirely surround the 



66 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

meat. Tie with twine. Cook in boiling water 10 m. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 
The amomit given is for one rice ball. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

Chop fine any cold, cooked meat. 
Moisten with gravy, season, and heat. 
Spread on slices of crisp, buttered toast, dipped in 
hot salted water. 



What kinds of fat may be used for frying? 
How may we clarify this fat? 
What are beef drippings? 
What may they be used for? 

GELATINE 
Lemon Jelly 

}4i box gelatine, or 2 tbsp. granulated gelatine. 

3^ c. cold water. 

23^ c. boiling water. 

1 c. sugar. 

3^ cup lemon juice. 

Fill mold with cold water. Soak gelatine 20 m. in 
the cold water, and add the boiling water. Stir, add 
sugar and hold over hot water until all sugar and gela- 
tine are dissolved. Add lemon juice and strain into 
cold, wet mold. 



, .A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 67 

Raspberry Cream 

}/^ box gelatine. 1 pt. raspberry juice. 

J^ c. sugar. 1 pt. cream. 

}/^ c. cold water. 

Cover gelatine with water, and soak 3^ h., then stand 
it over boiling water until thoroughly dissolved. Add 
to it the sugar and raspberry juice, and strain into a 
dish. 

Place the dish in a pan of ice, and stir continually, 
until the mixture thickens, then add the cream, whipped. 
Stir carefully until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a 
mold, and stand in a cold place to harden. 



What is its chief source of gelatine? 

How is it obtained? 

What is its chief food value? 

FISH 

Fish stands next to eggs and meat as a protein food. 
All fish may be divided into three classes — white fish, 
oily fish, shellfish. The oily fish are the richest in ex- 
tractives and fat, but are less easily digested than the 
white fish. 

Only fresh fish should be purchased; if good, the 
flesh will be firm and plump, the gills red, and the eyes 
bright. 



58 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Boiled Fish 

Wash the fish well in cold water, wipe carefully, and 
rub with a little salt. 

Wrap in cheesecloth, tie the ends, and place in fish 
kettle. Cover with boiling water. Add 

1 tsp. salt. Slice of onion. 

1 bay leaf. Sprig of parsley. 

Cover and simmer 10 m. to every pound. Take 
the fish from the water as soon as it is done, drain, 
remove the cloth carefully; turn the fish on a hot 
plate and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. 

Fried Fish 

Clean the fish and wipe as dry as possible. Sprinkle 
h salt and pepper, roll in flour, then dip in white 
of egg and roll in bread crumbs or corn meal. 

Put into a frying-pan 2 tbsp. of fat which must 
become very hot before the fish is put in. Turn the 
fish with a broad knife or pancake turner, with care 
not to break the fish. 

When cooked an amber color it is ready to turn. 
In serving lay the slices of fish overlapping each other 
on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley. 

Baked Fish 

Scrape the fish free from all scales. Make a small 
opening down the under side and remove the vitals. 




A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 59 

Wash well inside and out, wipe dry with a clean towel. 
Rub well with salt. Make a dressing of 

1 c. stale bread crumbs. 2 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

2 tbsp. melted butter. 1 tsp. salt. 

Mix well and stuff the fish, sewing it up with soft 
yarn. 

Score one side of the fish with a sharp knife, making 
the scores about one inch apart, and dredge thickly 
with salt, pepper, and flour. 

Baste every ten minutes with the gravy in the pan. 



Make a list of the oily fish found in your market, 
with price per pound. 
Make a list of the white fish, with price per pound. 
Name the conunon shellfish. 
Name the fish which we may buy dried or salted. 

Fish Balls 

1 c. shredded codfish. Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 c. mashed potato. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. butter. 

Boil fish and potato together; drain well. Mash, 
adding seasoning and beaten egg. 

Shape in small balls, or drop by spoonfuls into hot 
fat and fry until a rich brown. Drain on brown paper. 
Serve hot. If desired, dip in beaten egg and roll in 
sifted, dried bread or cracker crumbs before frying. 



60 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Creamed Codfish 

Split salt fish into small pieces. Soak in cold water 
over night. Pour boiling water over it twice in the 
morning. Drain and stir into a white sauce to which 
you have added three eggs, hard cooked, and cut into 
small pieces. Proportions: 

2 c. fish. 3 eggs. ^ c. white sauce. 

Serve with baked potatoes. 

BEANS 

Sometimes we cannot obtain either meat or fish, or 
we do not care to serve animal food, yet we must have 
our protein in some form. Then we find that certain 
vegetables will work in very well, and peas and beans 
head the list. This form of protein is not so easily 
digested, nor is it so thoroughly assimilated by the 
system, and it would be very unwise to use it commonly, 
but occasionally it is most acceptable. 

We may serve plain boiled lima beans, Boston baked 
beans, or bean soup; but with many the Spanish beans 
will prove to be the most appetizing. 

Spanish Beans 

2 tbsp. vinegar. Salt to taste. 

1 onion. 1 spk. cayenne. 

2 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. tomato. 

1 pt. pink beans. J^ of a red pepper. 

4 tbsp. butter. 



A .HANDBOOK. OF HOME 'ECONOMICS 61 

1. Soak the beans over night; boil in salted water 
until tender. 

2. Change the water three times during cooking. Be 
sure to add boiling water each time. 

3. Remove two-thirds of the beans. 

4. Add remaining materials, with exception of 
salt and butter, to beans left in kettle, and boil 

5. Press these beans, with the onion, etc., through a 
sieve; add the water they were boiled in. 

6. Pour this mixture over the whole beans, heat 
again, adding 4 tbsp. butter, and salt to taste. 

Note. — A 2-in. piece of fat salt pork may be boiled 
with the beans, and less butter used. 



Lima Beans 

1 pt. dried Lima beans. 

Pick over carefully, wash, soak in cold water over 
night. Place in fresh boiling water and cook gently 1 
to IH h. 

Drain, season with salt and butter, and serve hot. 



Estimate the cost of the Spanish beans. 

Make a list of vegetables that are rich in protein. 



62 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



HOUSEKEEPING 
Laundiy Work 

When preparing for laundry work, sort out the clothes 
carefully, remove stains, prepare the first water, and 
place the more delicate articles in it. If the water is 
liard, soften by the use of a very little soda water (sal 
soda dissolved in hot water) or borax water. Vary the 
amount of soap according to the kind used. Soak all 
white clothes for an hour or more before washing; 
wash the delicate articles without rubbing; put clothes 
through five waters, if possible. Make bluing water 
the shade of the clear sky at the zenith. 

Set the color in delicate fabrics. Sugar of lead is 
good for blues. Use 1 oz. to 1 gal. of water, and 
soak 1 h. (Remember that this is a poison and keep 
it on a high shelf, plainly marked.) Ordinary colors 
will do well with salt in the rinsing-water after the 
first time; allow 1 tbsp. salt to 1 qt. of water. Vine- 
gar is often used for lavender and purple; the propor- 
tion is the same as salt. Alum is good for green; the 
proportion is the same. 

When possible, boil all white clothes, using a small 
amount of soap in the water. 

Hot starch should be used generally for all clothes 
that are to be stiffened. Use 

1 tbsp. starch. J^ tsp. borax. 



A HANDBOOK ^OF<HOME ECONOMICS 63 

Mix with a little cold water and stir in boiling water 
until transparent. 

Flannel and silk should be washed in warm, soapy- 
water (Wool Soap or Ivory Soap will give good results), 
rinsed carefully in water of the same temperature, and 
hung to dry immediately. (Always wash these by hand, 
without using the washboard.) Iron the silk before it 
is fully dry, but allow the flannel to dry thoroughly. 
Very soft silk may be dipped in water in which gum 
arabic has been dissolved. Mix 1 oz. of gum with 1 pt. 
of hot water, strain through a cloth, and use 2 tsp. to 
1 c. of water. 



To Remove Stains 

Tea or Coffee. — Rinse well and pour boiling water 
over the stain. 

Chocolate, — Sprinkle with powdered borax and soak 
well in cold water. Add boiling water. 

Fruit — Dip into Javelle water and rinse thor- 
oughly, or treat like tea stains. 

Ink. — Soak two or three hours in coal oil, remove 
and wash in strong soap-suds, or rub with lemon juice 
and salt. 

CaUa lily. — Nothing satisfactory; try anunonia 
several times. 

MUk. — Wash quickly in cold water. 

Scorch. — Hang in sun and try soap solution. 

Grass. — Wash in alcohol and rub well. 



64 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Paint. — Rub with benzine or turpentine. 

Blood. — Soak in cold water until stain turns brown, 
then wash in warm water and soap. 

Mildew. — Rub lemon juice upon the spots and place 
in sunshine. Salt may also be used. 

Iron Rust. — Spread carefully over bowl in which 
you have placed J^ tsp. borax and 1 pt. water. Drop 
by drop apply acid until the stain brightens; then dip 
directly in water. Repeat if necessary. It is often 
wise to add ammonia to the rinsing water. 



Javelle Water 

4 lbs. washing soda. 
4 qts. boiling water. 
1 lb. chloride of lime. 

Dissolve soda in water in agate or granite-ware 
kettle, boil 10 m., stir in the lime gradually. When 
cold, strain through cloth and place in bottles. For 
ordinary bleaching, use 1 c. to 8 qts. of water. Do not 
leave in the water over 5 m. 



What is the difference between soft and hard 
water? 
What makes a good soap? 
How do you prepare an ironing board? 
What is the best shape and why? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 65 

BATTERS 

Any mixture of flour and liquid thin enough to be 
beaten is called a batter. Batter may be divided into 
three classes, — thin, thick, and drop-batters. 

The proportions for the thin batters are equal parts 
of flour and liquid. 

The proportions for the thick batter are twice as 
much flour as liquid. 

A drop-batter requires enough flour to cause it to 
fall readily from the spoon. 

Popovers 

1 c. flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. milk. ^ tsp. salt. 

Sift flour into bowl. In the center of the flour place 
the egg, unbeaten, add the salt and milk, stir until 
thoroughly mixed, then beat for a moment. Bake in a 
moderate oven 30 to 40 m. Or: Beat the egg (it is 
better if two are used) separately, add milk to yolk, 
and stir into dry material. Beat with Dover egg- 
beater. Then fold in stiff white. 

What makes the popovers light? 

Experiments 

Place 1 tsp. soda in a glass. Add ^ c. cold water. 
Note results. 



66 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Place 2 tsp. cream of tartar in a glass. Add }/i c. 
cold water. Note results. 

Mix 1 tbsp. of the soda water with the cream of 
tartar. Note results. 

]VIix 1 tbsp. of soda water with 1 tbsp. vinegar. Note 
results. 

What does soda come from? , 

What does cream of tartar come from? 

What is the name of the product formed from their 
union? 

General Rules for Baking Powder 

2 tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour without eggs. 
\Yt tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour with eggs. 
1 tsp. baking powder and Yt tsp. soda to 1 c. solid 
sour milk. 

Rules for Mixing and Baking Quick Breads 

Sift dry materials. 

Mix liquid materials. 

Stir liquid into dry. 

Add shortening, melted. 

Beat well for two or three minutes. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

Note: 

Stir all mixtures to make them smooth. 
Beat all mixtures to make them light. 
Cut the stiflf whites of eggs into a mixture. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 67 

Order op Work: 

Look after the heat of the oven; if you have a gas 

range, light the oven. 

Butter the baking-tins with any sweet, fresh fat. 

Get the utensils ready for work. 

Prepare the materials. 

Mix. 

Baking-powder Biscuits 

2 c. flour. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 

y^ tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. lard or butter. 

Milk or water to make a soft dough. 

Sift dry materials. Cut or chop in butter or lard, 
using a case-knife. Add enough liquid to make a soft 
dough. Turn upon a floured board, pat lightly into 
shape, half an inch thick. Cut, place on a slightly 
floured tin, and bake in a hot oven about 10 m. 



Change this biscuit recipe into shortcake dough. 
Name the different fruits conmionly used for short- 
cake. 
Write the directions for making shortcake. 

Griddle Cakes 

3 c. flour. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 tsp. salt. Milk to make a soft batter. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 2 tbsp. butter. 



68 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Sift dry ingredients, add beaten eggs and milk, beat 
well and add butter. 

Drop by spoonfuls on a hot, greased griddle. Turn 
when full of bubbles on top and cooked on edges. Cook 
the other side till brown. 



Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

2J^ c. flour. J^ tsp. salt. 

2 e. sour milk. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. soda. 

Syrup 
2 c. brown sugar. % c. water. 

Stir till dissolved and bring to the boiling 
point. 
Boil 5 m. 



What is baking powder? 

Name two standard kinds. 

What is the price of baking powder per pound? 

How many teaspoons in a half pound? 

What kind of a griddle is best for hot cakes? 

What comes next? 

Reduce the recipe for griddle cakes to one-eighth. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 69 

Commeal Muffias 

1 c. flour. 1 egg. 

}/i c. corn meal. 3 tbsp. butter. 

}4: c. sugar. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

1 e. milk. 3^ tsp. salt. 

Sift dry ingredients, add milk, well-beaten egg, and 
melted butter. Place in greased pans and bake fifteen 
to twenty minutes, in a quick oven. 



Graham Muflbis 

1 c. Graham flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. white flour. J^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. butter. 

34 c. sugar. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix, and bake like com meal muffins. 



Estimate the cost of both of these recipes. 



Wheat Muffins 

2 c. flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. shortening. 

yi c. sugar. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

3^ tsp. salt. 



70 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Sift dry materials, beat egg, add milk, stir into dry 
materials, and add shortening, melted. Bake in 
buttered pans 20 m. in a quick oven. 



Estimate the cost of this recipe. 
How many should it serve? 

Boston Brown Bread 
2 c. corn meal. 3 c. warm water. 

1 c. rye or Graham flour. 3 tsp. soda. 

1 c. conunon flour. }^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. molasses. 

Sift the dry materials, add liquid, and steam in one 
dish four hours, or in tiny cups three-fourths of an hour 
to one hour. 



Explain what takes the place of the cream of tartar 
in this recipe. 
What might be used in place of the water? 

CAKE 
General Rules for Cake 

Prepare oven; prepare tins; prepare utensils; pre- 
pare ingredients; cream butter; add sugar gradually; 
separate eggs; beat yolks creamy; beat whites stiff; 
sift floiu*, salt, baking powder. 

Add a little of the dry materials to the creamed 
butter and sugar. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 71 

Mix milk and egg yolk. Add half to creamed mixture. 

Alternate with dry material until all is added. Fold 
in stiff whites and flavoring. Bake in a moderate oven. 
If it is a layer cake use a quick oven. If a moist 
cake is desired, add eggs, unbeaten, to creamed butter 
and sugar. 

Plain Cake 

4 tbsp. butter. 

1 c. fine granulated or powdered sugar. 

2 eggs. 

J^ c. milk. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 

1^ c. flour. 

1 tsp. spice or J^ tsp. flavoring. 

1 spk. salt. 



Suggest four variations made from this recipe. 
Estimate the cost of the plain cake. 

Sponge Cake 

1 c. sugar. 4 eggs. 

1 c. flour. 3 tbsp. milk or water. 

1 tsp. flavoring. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

^ tsp. salt. 

Separate eggs, beat yolks creamy, whites stiff. Add 
sugar lightly to yolks, then flour and baking powder. 



72 A HANDBOOK OF HOME EOOSOUKS 

sifted thoffoagjbty togedier. Stir the milk, flavoriiiF, 
and salt in li^idy, tiien fold in stiff idiites. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



What is the difference between angd cake and sponge 
cake? 

Whidi is the more tmder and why? 

Estimate the cost with ^ggs at GO^ per dozen and at 
25f( pa* dozen. 

Gingcf bread 

1 c. molasses. ^ c shortening. 

3^ c. sugar. 1 tsp. ginger. 

3 c. flbm*. 1 tsp. soda. 

1 c. boiling water. ^ tsp. salt. 

legg. 

Cream butter, add sugar, well-beaten egg, molasses, 
and salt. Stir in the flour and soda, thoroughly sifted 
together. Pour the boiling water over the ginger, and 
add last. Beat well and bake in a shallow pan in a 
moderate oven. 



What could we add to this which would change it 
into a spice cake? 
Give the exact amounts needed. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 73 

CANDY 

Fondant 

2 c. granulated sugar. 
J/^ c. water. 

BoU unta It threads on a fork (242^ F.). Do not 
stir while cooking. Remove from the fire. When 
lukewarm, beat until creamy and stiff enough to handle. 
Knead lightly until soft and pliable. 

Boil the sugar and water gently; if the side of the 
saucepan becomes covered with granulated sugar, wipe 
it off with a damp cloth, and if the sugar granulates 
when you begin to stir it, add more water and boil 
again. 

Butter-scotch 

1 c. butter. 5 tbsp. molasses. 

1 % c. sugar. }^ tsp. vanilla. 

Boil molasses, sugar, and butter twenty minutes, 
stirring as little as possible, add flavoring and turn into 
prepared dishes. Cut when it begins to stiffen. 

Bonbons 

Roll candied fruit or nuts into some of the fondant, 
making small balls. Dip in some fondant melted over 
hot water. Be sure and stir the fondant while it is 
melting. 



74 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Compare the cost of bonbons made from fondant 
and the high-priced ones in stores. 
Write out directions for making chocolate creams. 
Write out directions for making peppermints. 



COOKIES 

In rolling cookies, handle the rolling-pin very lightly 
and roll only a small amount of dough at a time. Use 
as little flom* as possible on the board and be sure that 
the cookies are not floury when placed in the oven. 
Watch the oven carefully, as they biu'n very easily. 
Cool thoroughly before placing in pail, jar, or can. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 c. molasses. 4 tbsp. butter. 

1 tsp. ginger. 1 tsp. soda. 

Spk. salt. Flour to make stiff dough. 

Boil molasses, add butter, ginger, salt, soda, floiu*. 
Roll very thin, cut in rounds, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Plain Cookies 

1 c. sugar. 1 egg. 

]/i c. butter. J^ tsp. salt. 

J^ c. milk. J^ tsp. flavoring. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 
Flour to make a dough stiff enough to roll. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 75 

Roll one-eighth inch thick, cut in rounds, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Fruit Cookies 

Yi c. butter. }/i tsp. salt. 

^ c. sugar. 3^ tsp. cinnamon. 

2 eggs (small). }/^ c. chopped walnuts. 
y^ tsp. soda. }/i c. currants. 

3 tbsp. hot water. J^ c. raisins, seeded and chopped. 

About 1^ c. flour. 

Cream the butter. Add the sugar gradually, then 
add the eggs, well beaten, the soda dissolved in the 
hot water, and one-half of the flour, mixed and sifted 
with the salt and cinnamon. 

Then add the walnuts, raisins, and currants, and the 
rest of the floiu*. Drop by spoonfuls one inch apart on 
a greased pan, and bake in a moderate oven. 



HYGIENE 

You have studied hygiene in your class-room and you 
know what the word means and how it applies to the 
person and the public. Water, milk, fruits, and vege- 
tables, the city markets, the streets of the town, the 
collection and care of the garbage, the care of base- 
ments, alleys, and back yards, the style of the buildings, 
the hospitals for the care of the sick, all have to do in 
one way or another with public hygiene. 



76 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

How do water and milk affect the public health? 

How may fruits and vegetables be kept in a hygienic 
condition? 

What should be the condition of basements? 

What should be the condition of alleys? 

Give two ways in which you can help the public good 
health. 

1. 

2. 

However carefully the public may plan, the results 
will not be satisfactory unless each individual looks after 
his own personal hygiene. We are so closely bound 
together, especially in city life, that no one can exist to 
himself alone. You have learned that certain things lead 
to increased health and strength. Name some of these 
things. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

If you have indigestion how can you probably over- 
come it? 

How are you going to care for your teeth, and how 
often will you visit the dentist? 

Why are you to use your own personal towel and 
drinking-cup? 

Why are you to sleep with your windows open both 
top and bottom? 

How will you help destroy flies and mosquitoes? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 77 

MARMALADE 
Orange Marmalade 

5 large oranges. 2 qts. water. 

2 lemons. 2 lbs. sugar. 

Slice oranges thin, add juice of lemons and pour over 
the water. Let stand 24 h. (uncovered except by a 
thin cloth). Cook until the rind is tender and let stand 
24 h. longer. 

Add the sugar and cook gently until it jellies. This 
should make six glasses. 

Peach Marmalade 

Peel peaches, halve; measure. To 6 qts. peaches 
take one quart water, cook gently one hour, add half 
the quantity of sugar, cook one hour, stirring often. 

Rhubarb with Pineapple Marmalade 

4 lbs. rhubarb. 4 lbs. sugar. 

1 pineapple. 

Cut pineapple fine and rhubarb into half-inch pieces, 
cook together until tender, add sugar, and cook until it 
thickens slightly. 

Add a very little water when beginning to cook. 



What must you do to the glasses before pouring in 
the marmalade? 



78 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Why must this be done? 

How should the glasses be covered? 

Name other kinds of marmalade. 



BREAD 

In our work with marmalade we have been very 
careful to destroy anything that might cause fermenta- 
tion in our finished product. Now we are going to work 
with just the opposite idea in mind. Our earlier lessons 
in doughs have been where the carbon dioxide was 
quickly formed and quickly escaped. ^Vhen we study 
bread, we find that even the quickest process requires 
several hours, and frequently six to eight horn's pass 
before the finished loaves come from the oven. 

The foundation of good bread is good flour and good 
yeast; let either of these be poor and the result is a 
partial failure. By good yeast is meant fresh, pure 
yeast which will grow rapidly and help to produce the 
carbon dioxide we want, and only that. Yeast is a tiny 
plant that grows very rapidly but cannot be seen with- 
out a microscope; to develop thus rapidly it must have 
a warm, not hot, atmosphere, with plenty of food and 
drink. As it grows in the dough it splits up the sugar 
in the mixture, and from this comes the carbon dioxide 
which makes the bread light. A certain amount of 
alcohol is also thrown ofT, but this escapes before the 
bread is thoroughly baked. 

Remember first the three necessary ingredients in 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 79 

good bread: good flour, good yeast, milk or water; then 
the three accessories which are added to make it taste 
better: sugar, salt, shortening. 

The kneading is necessary to make the gluten elastic, 
for without this we could not have spongy bread. If 
possible, let this be done in the home with the bread- 
mixer, leaving the hand-kneading to the end of the 
process when the dough is shaped into loaves. 

Bread Made with Milk or Water 

2 c. boiling water, or 1 tbsp. sugar. 

1 c. milk and 1 c. water. J^ tbsp. salt. 
1 tbsp. butter. J^ yeast cake. 

1 tbsp. lard. J^ c. lukewarm water. 

About 6 c. sifted floiu'. 

Place shortening, sugar, and salt in a large bowl, pour 
in the boiling water, or boiling water and scalded milk. 

When the mixture is blood warm, add the dissolved 
yeast cake and 5 c. floiu'. Stir till thoroughly mixed, 
using a knife or wooden spoon. 

Add remaining flour, mix, turn on a floured board, 
leaving a clean bowl. Knead until the mixtiu^e is 
smooth and elastic to the touch, and bubbles may be 
seen under the surface. 

Return to the bowl, cover with a clean cloth and a 
board or tin cover, let it rise over night in a tempera- 
ture of 65° F. Or, use a whole yeast cake and let it rise 
for 2 or 3 h., or until 2}/^ times its original size. 



80 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Turn on floured board, knead, shape in loaves or bis- 
cuits, place in greased pans, having the pans nearly full. 

Let the dough rise to double its size, and bake in a 
hot oven. This will make a large loaf of bread and a 
pan of biscuit. 



What is the protein of wheat called? 
What are the two carbohydrates? 
What are the two chief classes of flour? 
What is the difference between them? 
Describe the appearance of gluten. 
Name three varieties of yeast. 
Which would you take with you far out in the coun- 
try? Why? 

Graham Bread 

2yi c. boiling water. 1 tbsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. shortening. About 4J^ c. white flour. 

J^ cake yeast. H c* lukewarm water. 

Make a sponge of this over night. In the morning 
add 1 c. molasses and enough Graham flour to make a 
stiff batter, about 13^ c. (If very coarse, the flour 
should be sifted.) 

Put in greased pans and let it rise imtil double in 
bulk. Bake 1 h. This will make two loaves. 

If very dark molasses is used, add J^ c. sugar to the 
shortening and salt, and use only 3^ c. molasses in 
morning. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 81 

What is Graham flour? 
Why bake in small rather than large loaves? 
How should you care for the bread when it is baked? 
Why is bread more digestible the day after it is 
baked? 

Quick Bread 

1 pt. warm water or milk (scalded). 

1 tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. sugar. 

2 tsp. shortening( beef fat or lard). 

2 yeast cakes (dissolved in 1 c. of the liquid). 

Flour to make a soft dough. 

Mix and knead like any bread. Put in a warm place 
and watch carefully; when light, knead, shape in small 
loaves, let rise again imtil a little more than double in 
size, and bake in a' moderate oven 40 to 45 minutes. 
The whole process should not take much over two 
hours. 



Why does this bread rise so much more rapidly? 
Give the signs by which you should know a good loaf 
of bread. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
What causes sourness in bread? 



82 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

THE CARE OF THE BEDROOM 

The only room in which we are likely to pass six to 
ten hours daily, without any change, is our sleeping- 
room. No other room in the whole house should be 
more carefully selected or better ventilated than this. 
The best of all is to sleep out of doors, but only a 
few can do this, and we must try to make the air 
in oiu* rooms as much like outdoor air as we possibly 
can. 

In selecting oiu' sleeping-room let us have a simny 
exposiu^, with windows, if possible, on two sides, and 
the space so planned that a bed may fit in without 
standing in front of one window. If we can, let us 
have a hardwood floor, or a painted one, with a few 
rugs that can be easily cleaned; if this is not possible, 
the floor may be covered with a* good matting. The 
fiu'nishings should be light, simple, and such as may 
be easily cleaned. The walls should be of soft tone, 
and the curtains light, so that the air will pass through 
readily. 

For the bed itself select a light brass or iron frame 
and put all the money you can afford into your mat- 
tress. Whatever kind you select, let it be the best 
possible, but not too soft. Be sure that the spring is 
firm; where this gives too much one does not rest so well. 
Cover the mattress with a case of unbleached muslin 
that can be easily removed and laundered, and place 
a thin washable pad under the sheet. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 83 

Let the sheets be long enough to tuck in securely at 
the bottom and turn over well at the top, and make 
them of firm, well-woven sheeting. Choose several 
light-weight covers rather than one heavy one, using 
blankets whenever you can afford them — wool blank- 
ets, or those that are three-quarters wool. 

Let the spread be simple and light and easily laun- 
dered, and make the pillow-slips long enough to really 
cover the pillows. 



In making the bed, how should you proceed? 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

How frequently should the bedding be aired out of 
doors? 

If some one were sick, how would you change the 
bedding? 

What could you use for a simple rest for the back 
when sitting up in bed? 

How would you get ventilation with one window? 

SALADS 

There is no line of cookery in which more care and 
study are required to gain the best results than in salad- 
making. Yet, when understood, nothing is more simple. 



84 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Certain things are essential to success — such as crisp 
lettuce, good olive oil, a well-made dressing, fresh fruits 
and vegetables, well-prepared meat and fish. 

All lettuce must be well washed, the leaves dried in 
a soft cloth, then placed close to the ice in a cheese- 
cloth, or, if nothing else is at hand, a paper bag. The 
uncooked vegetables must be tender and thoroughly 
chilled; the cooked vegetables cut into attractive shapes, 
when desired, and then kept unbroken; fish should be 
freed from all skin and bone and separated into distinct 
flakes; meat must be diced after being freed from bone, 
fat, and all gristle. 

When using cooked vegetables, or meat and fish, 
mix the French dressing with the prepared ingredients 
a half hour or more before serving. The best result is 
obtained by mixing each kind separately, putting to- 
gether just before serving. 

Always try to make the salad dainty and attractive 
when serving. If in individual form, shape the lettuce 
leaves into cup shapes, and garnish — where possible — 
with some special vegetables, or with olives. 

Remember that the simpler salad-dressings are the 
more wholesome, and should be the ones most com- 
monly used. 

French Dressing 

• 

1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice. J^ tsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. olive oil. Spk. pepper. 

3^ tsp. paprika 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 85 

Place the salt and pepper in a bowl, add oil slowly, 
and mix until the salt is dissolved. Then add the 
vinegar gradually, beating with a fork. 

Boiled Dressing 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil. 

1 tsp. sugar. 1 spk. pepper. 

5^ tsp. salt. 2 tbsp. strong vinegp^r. 

3^ tsp. mustard. 3^ c. water. 

Mix dry ingredients together. Add to egg and stir. 
Add vinegar and water, then butter, and put in a 
double boiler, stirring imtil thick. 

This dressing will keep several weeks in a covered jar. 
When ready to use, add soiu* cream, sweet cream, or 
milk, to thin it to the desired consistency. The pro- 
portions of water and vinegar vary with the strength 
of the vinegar. 

Note. — 1 tsp. of flour and one whole egg may be 
used in place of three yolks. 

Apple and Celery Salad 

2 c. apples, cut in small cubes. 
1 c. celery, cut in small cubes. 
3^ c. walnuts. 

Mix the ingredients together. Moisten with salad 
dressing. Arrange in lettuce-cups, cover with a little 
dressing, and put one-half of a walnut on top of each. 



86 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Salmon Salad 

1 c. fish. 3^ c. celery. Salad-dressing. 

Flake the fish. Wash the celery and cut into very 
thin slices. Mix fish and celery. Add enough salad- 
dressing to thoroughly moisten the fish and celery. 
Toss lightly together with a fork. Heap on crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

Tomato Salad 
Tomatoes. Cucumbers. Salad-dressing. 

1. Place tomatoes in a pan and cover with boiling 
water. Let them stand 5 minutes. Drain off water 
and cover with cold water. 

2. Peel tomatoes, remove thin slice from stem end 
of tomatoes, and remove seeds and part of pulp. 

3. Sprinkle inside with salt, invert, and let stand 3^ h. 

4. Fill tomatoes with thin slices of cucumber and 
tomato, mixed with salad-dressing. 

5. Arrange on lettuce leaves, and put dressing on top. 

Potato Salad 

3 c. cold boiled potatoes. 

1 tbsp. chopped onion, or J^ tsp. onion juice. 

Salt and pepper. 

1 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

J4 c. finely cut celery, or 1 tbsp. celery seed. 

2 hard-cooked eggs. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 87 

1. Cut potatoes into 3^ in. cubes and add other 
ingredients. 

2. Pour salad-dressing over all, and garnish with 
the hard-cooked eggs. Separate the eggs and sift the 
yolks, as in egg vermicelli. 



Name some other vegetables that combine well in 
salads. 

Name some fruits that combine well in salads. 

What may be used in place of olive oil in the French 
dressing? 

FIRST AIDS TO THE INJURED 

In your hygiene study you have touched upon many 
things helpful to others and to yourself in times of 
accident. 

What would you do for a cut on the finger? 

What would you do for a cut on the arm? 

What is best for a simple biu^n where the skin is 
unbroken? 

What is best for a bmn where the skin is broken? 

How can you remove a cinder from the eye? 

What should you do when some one is fainting? 

How can you extinguish flames on clothing? 

What should you do with blazing fat? 

Give a simple remedy for sore throat. 

What would you do for a cold? 



88 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

What is best for a simple sprain? 

How can you prevent a black-and-blue spot? 

How remove soreness from a bruise? 

What should not be taken for headache? 

What is done for a rattlesnake bite? 

Give a list of a few things that should always be on 
hand in the home and state what you would use them 
for. 

Make a list of foods suitable in case of illness: 

Liquids. Semi-solids. Solids. 



PUDDINGS 
Steamed Fruit Pudding 

1 c. molasses. 3^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. sweet milk. 1 tsp. cinnamon* 

3 c. flour. }/^ tsp. nutmeg. 

3^ c. butter. 3^ tsp. cloves. 

1 tsp. soda. 3^ tsp. ginger. 

2 tsp. cream of tartar. 1 c. raisins, ciit fine. 

Floiu* the raisins with a little flour taken from the 
3 cups. Sift the dry materials twice. Add the liquid, 
then the shortening, melted. Last, stir in the fruit. 
Steam 3 h. In small cups, steam 5^ h. 

Serve with a liquid sauce or with lemon cream 
sauce. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 89 

Lemon Cream Sauce 

1 c. powdered sugar. 
4 tbsp. butter. 

Grated rind of one lemon. 

2 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Spk. nutmeg. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually; when smooth and 
creamy, add grated rind, juice and nutmeg. Beat 
10 m. Stir for a minute over boiling water before serv- 
ing. Serve on a warm plate. 

Liquid Sauce 

1 c. sugar. 3 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. water. 2 tbsp. butter. 

J^ tsp. salt. 

Juice or grated rind of one lemon, or flavoring to taste 
(vanilla or spice). 

Prune Whip 

3^ lb. prunes. 4 egg whites. 

3^ c. confectioners' sugar. 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Stone the cooked prunes, drain well, and press through 
a strainer. Beat the egg whites stiff, beat in the sugar 
gradually, then add the prune pulp, a little at a time, 
beating steadily until all is in. Add the lemon juice. 



«0 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

pile lightly on a platter, place over hot water in the 
oven and brown slightly, or place in baking-dish and 
brown. Serve cold, with a custard poiu^ around the 
whip. The oven must be a moderate one or the whip 
will fall. 

Custard 

4 egg yolks. Spk. salt. 

1 pt. milk. Lemon flavoring. 

3^ c. sugar. 

Make like any soft custard. 



Estimate cost of this dessert. 

Name other fruits that might be used in the same way. 

Orange Cream 

3 good oranges. 

3^ good lemon. 

}/^ oz. gelatine (soften in the cold water). 

3^ c. cold water. 

Add enough hot water to make one pint of liquid, 
including the juice from the oranges and lemon. Beat 
until gelatine is dissolved, strain, cool until of the con- 
sistency of thick cream, beat in 8 tbsp. of whipped 
cream and about J^ c. powdered sugar; beat well and 
turn into prepared mold. Serve cold. 



'A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 91 

Name the fruits which could be used in place of the 
oranges. 
What could be substituted for the whipped cream? 
What kinds of gelatine may be used? 

FROZEN DISHES 

Some of our best and simplest desserts are the sher- 
bets, ices, and creams. An ice is simply fruit juice, 
water, and sugar, frozen together. A sherbet is, usu- 
ally, the same as an ice with the addition of stiff egg 
whites. A cream should be pure cream, flavoring, and 
sugar, or a rich custard with cream added, in equal 
quantities. This last combination is the richest of aD. 

In packing the freezer use three parts of ice to one of 
salt. See that the crank works easily before beginning 
to pack, and test occasionally while filling with the ice 
and salt. Do not fill the can more than two-thirds full 
of the ice cream or sherbet, otherwise it will run over 
before it is frozen. Turn very slowly at first, stopping 
once or twice; when too hard to turn, remove dasher, 
pack down, cover closely, repack with salt and ice, and 
allow it to stand several hours to harden. 

Fruit Sherbet 

3 oranges. 3 c. sugar. 

3 lemons. 3 c. water. 

1 banana. 2 egg whites. 

J^ can apricots. 



92 A HANDBCX)K OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Press juice and pulp through a stnuner, adding water 
to aid in the sifting. Add the sugar, stir imtil dissolved, 
and freeze. When it begins to stiffen, add the stiff 
whites. 

Strawberry Ice 

1 pt. strawberry juice 
1 J^ c. sugar 
1 c. water. 



boil together; cool. 



Juice of 2 lemons. 

Mix fruit juice and syrup, add more sugar if neces- 
sary, pack and freeze. 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 

1 c. sugar. 2 c. milk. Juice of 2 lemons. 

Dissolve sugar in the milk and freeze. When thick 
add the lemon juice and freeze again. 

Fruit Punch I 

4 c. cold water. 

2 c. sugar. 

2 c. chopped pineapple (or 1 qt. can). 

1 c. orange juice. 

3^ c. lemon juice. 

Boil water, sugar, and pineapple 20 m. 
Add fruit juice; cool, strain, and dilute with ice water. 
Any of the following fruits may be added: 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 93 

J^ box berries of any kind, (mashed through a vege- 
table press). 
2 bananas, sliced or mashed. 
J^ c. grape juice. 

1 c. fresh cherries, stoned and sliced. 

2 ripe peaches peeled, stoned, and mashed. 

Fruit Punch n 

2 c. water. }/i lb. candied cherries. 

2 c. sugar. 1 doz. strawberries. 

Chopped rind of 1 lemon. 1 pineapple grated, or 
Juice of 8 lemons. 1 qt. can. 

1 banana. 2 qts. Apollinaris. 

Boil water, sugar, and lemon rind 10 m. Strain. 
When cool add the lemon juice, pineapple, and other 
fruit, sliced. 

Place a large square of ice in a pimch-bowl. Pour 
over this the mixture, adding the Apollinaris water when 
ready to serve. 

MENUS 

Make out three breakfast menus. Plan for four 
in the family and make the cost per person ISjf for 
the first meal and 20jif for the remaining two. 

Make out three dinner menus of two courses. 

Make out three dinner menus of three courses. 

Make out two dinner menus of four courses. 



94 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Estimate the cost in each case. 
Plan for a family of four. 
Allow 25ff per person in the first set. 
Allow 35ff per person in the second set. 
Allow 50ff per person in the third set. 



INDEX 



Abbreyiations, table of, 4, 5. 
Accidents, First Aid in, 87, 88. 
Apple Sauce, 12. 
Apples, Baked, 13. 
Apricots, Dried, 14. 
Aprons, size and material of, 3. 

Baking Powder, rules for use 
of, 66. 

Biscuits, 67. 
Barley Gruel, 24. 
Batters, 65. 
Beans, food value of, 60. 

Spanish, 60, 61. 

lima, 61. 
Bedroom, 82, 83. 
Beef, 46. 

cuts of, 48. 

Tea, 49, 50. 

Extract, 50. 

Stew, 52, 53. 
Beefsteak, broiled, 51. 

Pan-broiled, 51, 52. 
Bonbons, 73, 74. 
Bread, Quick, 66, 67, 81. 

Boston Brown, 70. 

the making of good, 78, 79. 

made with milk or water, 79. 

Graham, 80. 
Broth, Mutton, 50. 
Brown Bread, Boston, 70. 
Butter, 42, 43. 
Butter-scotch, 73. 



Cake, rules for, 70, 71. 

Plain, 71. 

Sponge, 71. 
Candy, Nut Brittle, 15. 

Fudge, 15, 16. 

Syrup, 16, 68. 

Fondant, 73. 

Butter-scotch, 73. 

Bonbons, 73, 74. 
Carrots, creamed, 31. 
Cereals, 21. 

composition of, 21, 22. 

rules for cooking, 22. 

Gruels of, 23, 24. 
Cheese, Cottage, 42. 
China, washing, 4. 
Chocolate, how to make, 11. 
Cocoa, how to make, 12. 
Codfish, creamed, 60. 
Coffee, care of, 8. 

how to make boiled, 8, 9. 

how to make filtered, 9. 
Cookery room, order and 

neatness in, 3. 
Cookies, 74, 75. 
Cooking utensils, care of, 3. 

washing, 4. 
Commeal Muflfins, 69. 
Com Soup, 45. 
Cornstarch Pudding, 20, 21. 
Cottage Cheese, 42 
Cottage Pie, 54. 
Cranberry Jelly, 13. 



96 



INDEX 



Croutons, 49. 
Custard, rules for, 40. 

Sauce, 41. 

Baked, 41. 

Boiled, 90. 

Dishes, instructions for wash- 
ing, 4. 
Dressing, French, 84, 85. 

Boiled, 85. 
Dried Fruits, 14. 
Dumplings, 53, 54. 

Eggs, food value of, 37. 

how to judge fresh, 37. 

Soft-cooked, 37. 

Hard-cooked, 37. 

Poached, 37, 38. 

Scrambled, 38, 39. 

light Omelet of, 39. 

French Omelet of, 39, 40. 

Vermicelli, 40. 
Equivalents, table of, 5. 
Experimental formulas, 20, 
65, 66. 

Fats, review questions on, 56. 
Fire, how to build a, 6. 
First Aid to the Injured, 87, 

88. 
Fish, 57. 

Boiled, 58. 

Fried, 58. 

Baked, 58, 59. 

Creamed, 60. 
Fish BaUs, 59. 

Flannel fabrics, how to wash, 
63. 



Flour Gruel, 23. 
Fondant, 73. 

Food, three classes of, 10. 
Frozen Dishes, 91, 92. 
Fruit, 13-15. 
Dried, 14. 
Fruit Cookies, 75. 
Fruit Punch, 92, 93. 
Fruit Sherbet, 91, 92. 
Fudge, 15, 16. 

Game, 47. 

Garbage, care and disposal of, 

17, 18. 
Gas Range, instructions for 

lighting, 6. 
Gelatine, 56. 
Gingerbread, 72. 
Ginger Snaps, 74. 
Glassware, washing, 4. 
Graham Muffins, 69. 
Griddle Cakes, 67, 68. 

Sour milk, 68. 
Gruel, 22. 

Indian Meal, 23. 

Flour, 23. 

Oatmeal, 23. 

Barley, 24. 

Hash, 55. 

Housekeeping, suggestions for, 
3, 17-19. 

Laundry work in, 62, 63. 
Hygiene, 75, 76. 

care of bedrooms, 82, 83. 

Ices, 91-93. 

Indian Meal Gruel, 23. 



INDEX 



W 



Injured, First Aid to, 87, 
88. 

Javellb Wateb, 64. 
Jelly, Cranberry, 13. 

Lemon, 56. 
Junket, 43. 

Knives and Forks, care in 
washing, 4. 

Lamb, 46. 

Laundry, method of work in, 

62,63. 
removal of stains on clothes 

in, 63, 64. 
Left-over dishes, 54. 
Lemon Cream Sauce, 89. 
Lemon Jelly, 56. 
Lemon Milk Sherbet, 92. 

Marmalade, 77, 78. 
Measurements, table of, 5, 6. 
Meat, food value of, 46. 

varieties of, 46, 47. 

Minced, 56. 
Meat Cakes, broiled, 52. 
Menus, 93, 94. 
Metals, how to clean, 18, 

19. 
Milk, 10. 

care of, 10. 

composition of, 11. 

fflgns of good, 42. 

Junket or thick, 43. 
Muflfins, Commeal, 69. 

Graham, 69. 

Wheat, 69, 70. 



Mutton, 46. 
Broth, 50. 
Scalloped, 55. 

Nut Brittle, 15. 

Oatmeal Gruel, 23. 
Omelet, light, 39. 
French, 39, 40. 
Orange Cream, 90, 91. 
Orange Marmalade, 77* 

Peaches, dried, 14. 
Peach Marmalade, 77. 
Peas, Green, 31, 32. 
Pie, Cottage, 54. 
Pineapple Cream, 21. 
Popovers, 65. 
Pork, 46. 
Potato, Boiled, 27. 

Mashed, 28. 

Cakes, 28. 

Baked, 28. 

Creamed, 29. 

Soup, 44. 
Poultry, 46, 47. 
Prunes, 14. 
Prune Whip, 89, 90. 
Pudding, Cornstarch, 20, 21. 

Steamed Fruit, 88. 

Range, how to light Gas, 6. 

care of, 18. 
Raspberry Cream, 57. 
Refrigerator, care of, 17. 
Review questions on: water, 

7, 8; tea, 9; coffee, 9; 

milk, 11; chocolate, 12; 



08 



INDEX 



cocoa, 12; fruit, 14, 15 
candy, 16, 74; house- 
keeping, 19; cornstarch 
21; cereals, 24; rice, 26 
potatoes, 29; eggs, 38 
custards, 42; soups, 46 
50; meats, 47, 52; fats 
56; gelatine, 57; fish, 59 
beans, 61; laundry work 
64; baking powder, 68 
bread, 70, 80, 81; cake 
71, 72; ^gerbreisMi, 72 
hygiene, 76; marmalades 
77, 78; bedrooms, 83 
salads, 87; first aid to 
injured, 87, 88; menus, 

Rhubarb Marmalade, 77. 
Bice, 24. 

BoUed, 24, 25. 

manner of washing, 25. 

Molded, 25. 

Balls, 55, 56. 

Salad, 83, 87. 

Apple and celery, 85. 

Salmon, 86. 

Tomato, 86. 

Potato, 86. 
Sauce, Apple, 12. 

White, 31. 

Custard, 41. 

Lemon Cream, 89. 

Liquid, 89. 
Service, 7, 32, 33. 
Setting the Table, 7, 32. 
Silk fabrics, how to wash, 

6a 



Silver, washing, 4. 

Sink, care of, 17. 

Soiled clothes, rules for hand 

ling, 62, 63. 
Soup, Cream, 43, 44. 

Potato, 44. 

Mock Bisque, 44. 

Com, 45. 

Tomato, 45. 

stock, 48, 49. 
Spinach, 30. 
Sponge Cake, 71, 72. 
Stains, removal of, 63, 64. 
Starch, use of, in laundry, 62. 
Stew, Beef, 52, 53. 
Stove Blacking, use of, 18. 
Strawberry Ice, 92. 
Syrup, 16, 68. 

Table, instructions for setting 
the, 7. 

Breakfast, 32. 

Dinner, 32. 

rules for serving at, 33. 
Tea, care of, 8. 

how to brew, 8. 
Tomato, Stewed, 29, 30. 

Scalloped, 30. 

Soup, 45. 

Veal, 46. 
Vegetables, 26-31. 
preparation of, 26, 27. 

Waitress, duties of, at table, 

33. 
Water, 7. 
Wheat Muffins, 69, 70. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



gj^DBOOK 



or HOME 



ECONOMICS 



► ••• 



• •• 



• • 



,.••••• 



>••• 



• •• 



• 



,.••••• 



,.••••• 



• •• 



•••• 



• •• 



• •• 



• ••« 



• ••• 



••• 



rr.' 









:::- — ;:::::-■ 





-:::::::: - 











:: 





■ 



....; 



• 











::::::::: 



^ «4M>BooK 



OF 



^OMB Rnrtx. 



^^XOiOGg 



: 









: — 











:::::: 

::::::: =:::: 

:.: 















A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



Handbook 



op 



HOME 



^^mmca 





:: 

::::::: 

:::::: =:::: 

- ::: 



























A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



BANdsoo 



K OP 



HOME 



■==:::-:: - 



::: 







:: 

• 











:::: 





A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



^ flAWDBooic 



Of 



flOME 





-••• — :: 

•"•••••• — 





"•-•"• : 



- — 

- 





: 

- — 





— i 

:: 






A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



-^BOOK 0. HOME « 



CONOMlCS 



.„...- ::::::::="=• 

:: ^ 

















. 





















: 

:... 

, 





^PBOO,. 0. HOME « 



CONOMICS 













:::: 



:: 





•••■ 





::; 



: 



■■^^- 



^^ONojncs 

"=::-^^^^^^^^ 

■••—•• ::::: 





• 





• 

















■ 



:: 

^^^^^^z 



bandboo 



K OF 



^^^ ^NOm 





:: 















- : 



- 

: 



: - 

"•••- 

.:::: 











:.: 




K 



y 



V 



A HANDBOOK 



OF 



HOME ECONOMICS 



BY 



ETTA PROCTOR FLAGG 
> r 

SUPERVISOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE IN THE 
LOS ANGELES PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 
1912 



\J> 



Copyright, 1912, 
BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY. 



All rights reserved 
Published, January, 1912 



8. J. PARKHILL & Co., BOSTOK, U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

THE plan in this little book has been to give a simple 
basis for the pupil to work from, leaving the teacher 
free to present the lesson in her own way. The princi- 
pal points to be brought out are suggested by the 
questions at the end of each lesson. These questions 
are to be answered by the pupil in the spare moments 
which are so often wasted in the course of an ordinary 
cookery period. 

This course may be completed in one school year, 
or in two, according to the frequency of the lessons. 
The book is divided into two parts for the convenience 
of classes which devote two years to the subject. 



235338 



PART I 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME 
ECONOMICS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HOUSEKEEPING 

Let each pupil provide herself with two large, plain, 
white aprons made from cambric, long cloth, or linen; 
avoid lawn because it wears so short a time and rumples 
so easily. In addition to the aprons, every girl should 
have her own small hand- towel and cookery holder; the 
towel need not be more than eighteen inches long, and 
the holder should not be over five inches square. 

When working in the cookery room, keep the wrists 
free from bracelets and the fingers free from rings; let 
the hair be neat and away from the face. 

Before beginning the lesson see that the hands are 
thoroughly washed and the nails well cleaned. Keep 
the hand-towel fastened at the waist, ready for imme- 
diate use. 

When the lesson is over, fold both apron and towel 
neatly and place in the locker assigned. Before leav- 
ing the class-room be sure that all utensils are in perfect 
order and, if possible, that your notes are all placed in 
your text-book. 



4' ; A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Dish-Washing 

Clean all plates and dishes; if they are greasy, use 
brown paper; if not, scrape with a rubber scraper or 
with a case-knife. 

Arrange neatly and in the most convenient manner. 
Use hot, soapy water, filling the dishpan about one- 
third full. Change the water frequently if many dishes 
are to be washed. Rinse all dishes with clear, hot 
water and wipe with clean towels free from lint. 

Wash glassware first. If an extra polish is desired, 
wipe from the soapy water. 

After the glassware, wash the silver, then the china, 
and then the cooking utensils. 

Take fresh, hot water and wash the towels thor- 
oughly, rinse in clear water, stretch carefully and hang 
to dry; fold the dishcloth evenly and hang to dry. 

Be very careful to keep bone, ivory, or wooden handles 
of knives or forks out of the water, and make sure, 
when washing a Dover egg-beater, that only the part 
below the wheel touches the water. 

If a saucepan has become burned place a few tea- 
spoons of baking soda in the pan, fill with warm water 
and let it stand for several hours or over night. 

Abbreviations 

tbsp. stands for tablespoon, qt. stands for quart, 
tsp. stands for teaspoon. pt. stands for pint. 
c. stands for cup. Ib. stands for pound. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 5 

m. stands for minute. oz. stands for ounce, 

h. stands for hour. spk. stands for speck. 

Table of Equivalents 

3 tsp. equal 1 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. equal % c. or }/ gill. 
2 gills equal 1 c. 

2 c. equal 1 pt. 

2 pts. equal 1 qt. 

4 qts. equal 1 gal. 

4 c. flour equal 1 Ib. 

2 c. solid butter equal 1 Ib. 

2 c. granulated sugar equal 1 Ib. 

3 c. meal equal 1 Ib. 

2 c. solid meat equal 1 Ib. 
2 tbsp. butter equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. sugar equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. flour equal 1 oz. 
2 tbsp. liquid equal 1 oz. 

Measurements 

Flour, soda, meal, powdered, or confectioners' sugar 
should be sifted before measuring. 

A cup means a cup filled level with the top. 

A spoonful means a level spoonful. 

To get this level spoonful, use the back of a case- 
knife, drawing it smoothly across the spoon. 

One half spoonful means a spoonful divided length- 
wise. 



6 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

One fourth spoonful means a spoonful divided length- 
wise and then crosswise. 

A salt spoon means one-fourth of a teaspoon. 

When measuring dry material by the cup, fill lightly 
with a spoon without shaking it down. 

FIRE-BUILDING , 
To Build a Wood Fire 

Remove ashes and open drafts. 

Blacken, beginning at the back. 

Place thin layer of crumpled paper on bottom of 
fire box. 

Arrange a loose layer of light wood over the paper. 

Place hard wood over this lightly. 

Polish while stove is heating. 

When fire is burning well, close oven-damper and 
check the drafts. 

To Build a Coal Fire 

Build like a wood fire, adding coal gradually until 
the fire box is three-fourths full. 

To Light a Gas Range 

Turn the gas on freely before lighting. 

Keep the blaze free from yellow flame and as low 
as is allowable with the heat required. 

In lighting the oven be sure that there is no free gas 
to cause an explosion. (Usually it is wiser to open the 
oven door before lighting.) 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 7 

SETTING THE TABLE 

Dust the table. Put on the silence-cloth, which 
must be perfectly smooth. 

Place tablecloth over this, center of cloth over center 
of table. Use clean linen of as fine a quality as can 
be afforded. Have the cloth long enough and wide 
enough to hang well around the table. 

Decorate by placing in the center of the table a vase 
of flowers, a fern, or a dish of fruit. 

Place plates, right side up, one at each end; then at 
the sides. Have plenty of space between each plate, 
and plates opposite one another if possible. 

Place knife on right side of plate with sharp 
edge of knife toward plate, one inch from edge of 
table. 

Place forks on left side with prongs turned up, one 
inch from edge of table. 

Place teaspoons at right of knife, bowls of spoons 
turned up. 

Place tumbler, top up, at end of knife. 

Place butter, or bread and butter plate, in front of 
plate toward the left. 

Place napkins, neatly folded, at the left of fork. 

WATER 

Place }/2 c. water in saucepan and heat slowly. What 
rises at first? 

What collects on the bottom and sides of pan? 



8 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

When is the water simmering? How can you tell, 
and what is the temperature? 

Give the temperature of boiling water. 
How do you know when it is boiling? 
What is "hard" water? 
What is "soft" water? 

TEA AND COFFEE 

Keep tea and coffee in closely covered jars or cans. 

Use enamel or nickel coffee-pots. 

Use enamel, nickel, or earthenware teapots. 

Use only freshly boiled water in making tea and 
coffee, and scald the teapot or coffee-pot thoroughly 
before using. 

Tea 

1 tsp. tea. 

1 c. boiling water. 

Put the tea in a scalded teapot and pour the boiling 
water over it. 

Steep 5 m. in a warm place. Strain, and serve either 
hot or iced. 

Boiled Coffee 

4 tbsp. coffee, ground. 
\y% c. boiling water. 
4 egg shells, broken fine, 
c. cold water. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 9 

Mix coffee, shells, and half of the cold water. Add 
boiling water, boil three minutes and add remaining 
cold water. Let stand 10 minutes, pour out a little to 
clear the spout, and serve. 

Filtered Coffee - 

Y% c. coffee, powdered. 
3 c. boiling water. 

Use a coffee-pot with an inside strainer. Place the 
powdered coffee in the strainer and add the boiling 
water gradually. Keep the coffee-pot covered while 
the water is filtering. Serve at once, without cooling. 



Where is tea found? 

What part of the tea plant is used? 

How is tea prepared for market? 

Name four different varieties of tea, with prices for 
each. 

Why use freshly boiled water in making tea? 

Why not boil the tea? 

When would you drink tea? 

Where does coffee grow? 

Why are tea and coffee injurious? 

In what form is coffee least injurious? 

Name the two best varieties of coffee, with price per 
pound. 



10 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

FOOD 

The food which we eat may be divided into three 
distinct classes: proteins, carbohydrates, fats. These 
will be studied in detail as we advance in the work. 
Try to remember now that protein foods are the chief 
sources of tissue and muscle, and that the carbohydrates 
and fats give us energy and fat. 

MILK 

The first food that children take is milk, and for the 
young child this seems an almost perfect food. Since 
all young children must live on it, it is necessary for 
us to know how to tell good milk and how to care for 
it. It is very difficult to get fresh, pure milk in the 
large cities, and nothing that comes into the house 
requires more care. 

Care of Milk 

Select the best dairy you can find. Wipe milk bottles 
when brought into the house. Place in refrigerator or 
cold closet. If turned from bottles, place in glass, agate- 
ware, earthenware, granite, or aluminum, and keep 
covered. If doubtful about the purity, scald. To 
scald the milk, heat over hot water; when a bead-like 
ring forms around the edge, it is scalded. Remove 
directly. Greater heat makes the milk less digestible. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 11 

Composition of Milk 

Water, about 87%. 
Mineral matter, 
casein. 



Protein , 

[ albumen. 

Fat. 

Carbohydrate. Sugar. 



What is the scum that rises to the surface of milk 
when it is scalded? 

What is pasteurized milk? 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 

Chocolate 

lJ/ to 2 squares of Baker's chocolate. 
4 tbsp. sugar. 
1 c. boiling water. 
<^c. scalded milk. 
Spk. salt. 

1. Melt the chocolate over hot water, add sugar and 
salt, and pour the boiling water over the mixture, 
stirring constantly. 

2. Place directly over the fire and cook 5 m. 

3. Add to the hot milk. 

4. Beat 1 m. with Dover egg-beater and serve. For 
special occasions 1 tsp. vanilla may be added, and 
whipped cream may be served with the chocolate. 



12 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Cocoa 

2 tbsp. cocoa. 2 c. boiling water. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. scalded milk. 

1 spk. salt. 

(A larger proportion of milk may be used.) 

1. Mix cocoa, sugar, and salt with the water, and 
boil 5 m. 

2. Stir this into the hot milk and serve. 



From what are chocolate and cocoa obtained? 
What is the difference between the two? 
Which is the more easily digested? Why? 
Name the most nourishing part in a cup of cocoa. 
Reduce the chocolate recipe to 1 c. 
Reduce the cocoa recipe to 1 c. 
How can you prevent the thick scum from rising to 
the surface of a cup of chocolate or cocoa? 



Apple Sauce 

6 or 8 apples. J/ c. sugar. 

1. Pare, core, and cut the apples into small pieces. 

2. Cook the apples with enough water to keep them 
from burning. When soft, add the sugar and remove 
from the fire. 

3. Cinnamon or nutmeg to suit taste may be added 
for variety. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 13 

Baked Apples 

Wash and core apples. Place in baking-dish, fill 
center with sugar, and cover the bottom of the baking- 
dish with hot water. Bake until soft. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 c. cranberries. 

1 c. boiling water. 

2 c. sugar. 

1. Look over cranberries and wash them. Cook 
cranberries and water 20 m. 

2. Press through a strainer. Add the sugar and 
cook 5 m. 

3. Pour into cold, wet molds, or glasses. 



Name the two classes of fruits. 

Give the general composition. 

What is the chief food value? 

What fruits are included under the name citrus? 

What gives them this name? 

Name two varieties of good cooking apples. 

Give the average cost per pound. 

How many average-sized apples make a pound? 

Where do most of the cranberries come from? 

When are they at their best? 

What is the average cost per pound? 



14 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

What fruits are more wholesome cooked than un- 
cooked? 

What fruits may be exposed safely on the public 
streets? 
Why? 

DRIED FRUITS 
Prunes 

Wash thoroughly, soak over night, and cook slowly 
until the skins are tender. When nearly done, sweeten 
slightly. Stick cinnamon, or a little juice and rind of 
lemon, may be used to vary the flavor. 

Peaches 

Wash the dried peaches carefully, cover with water 
and let stand over night. In the morning cook slowly 
until tender; then add a very small amount of sugar. 

Apricots 

Treat in the same way as the others, but add more 
sugar. Prunes and apricots may be mixed together, 
half and half, and treated as either one would be treated 
separately. 

What is the difference in composition between the 
fresh and dried fruits? 
How is this lack supplied? 
Why is the long cooking desirable? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 15 

Name three dried fruits rich in sugar. What per 
cent of sugar do they contain? 

How are fruits dried? 

What do we need to be very careful about in their 
preparation? 

At what season of the year would you use dried fruits 
freely? 



Nut Brittle 

1 c. sugar. 
54 to 1 c. nuts, shelled and broken in pieces. 

1. Put sugar in saucepan to heat, and when it begins 
to melt on the bottom of the saucepan stir it until it 
becomes a thin, light brown syrup with no lumps. 
(Keep the sugar stirred down from the sides of the pan.) 

2. Add nuts immediately and pour quickly on a 
buttered plate or platter; mark in squares as soon as 
the knife does not stick to the candy. (A tin plate need 
not be buttered.) When cold, break in pieces. 

Fudge 

2 c. sugar. 2 tbsp. butter. 

y?, to 1 c. milk. 1 tsp. vanilla. 

1 to 1J/2 sq. unsweetened chocolate, or 4 tbsp. cocoa. 

1. Heat milk and sugar and, when sugar is dissolved, 
add the chocolate. Boil until it reaches the soft-ball 
stage, stirring until chocolate is melted. 



16 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

2. Remove from fire, add the butter and vanilla, 
and beat until creamy and thickened. Pour quickly 
into a greased tin. When firm, cut in squares. 

Syrup 
2 c. sugar. J/g c. water. 

Place in saucepan and stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Boil slowly, without stirring, until a light syrup is 
made. Remove and cool. Color with caramel and 
flavor with lemon, if desired. 



What is the price of confectioners' sugar? 

How many cups of granulated sugar make a pound? 

How many cups of confectioners' sugar make a pound? 

How do you caramelize sugar? 

Estimate the cost of the nut brittle and give it in 
itemized form. 

Estimate the cost of the fudge in the same way. 

To what class of foods does sugar belong? 

What does it do in the body? 

Why should we not eat large quantities of sugar in 
any form? 

Where is beet sugar made? 

In what section do we find maple sugar? 

How is maple sugar made? 

What is the price of granulated sugar? 

What does cane sugar come from, and how is it made? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 17 

HOUSEKEEPING 
Care of Refrigerator 

Look over the refrigerator daily to see that no food 
is left to spoil. Food with a strong flavor, or hot food, 
should not be put into the refrigerator. 

Once a week every part of the refrigerator should be 
washed with a solution of washing-soda, a dish mop 
being used. Rinse, wipe as dry as possible, and air 
thoroughly before using again. Flush the waste-pipe 
with the soda solution. 

Care of the Sink 

Always pour dishwater through a sink strainer, and 
put the refuse left in strainer in garbage pail. 

When dish-washing is finished, wash every part of 
the sink and sink strainer with hot, soapy water. Wash 
above and around the sink, and use a scrubbing brush 
and a skewer when necessary. 

Flush the sink with boiling water every day, and 
about once a week with a strong, hot solution of washing- 
soda. (Cover 1 c. washing-soda with 6 qts. boiling 
water and let remain on the fire until all the soda is 
dissolved. Pour this, boiling hot, into the pipes, using 
2 to 3 qts. for each sink.) 

Garbage 

Garbage should be burned, or should be put into 
large pails to be collected several times a week. These 



18 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

garbage pails should be cleaned thoroughly with the 
hose, after emptying, and dried well in the sun. When 
necessary, a strong, hot solution of washing-soda should 
be used to clean them. 

Scraps in the kitchen should be put into a granite- 
ware pail. This scrap pail should be emptied into the 
garbage pail every day. It should be washed as any 
other dish and thoroughly dried. Once a week it should 
be washed with the soda solution. 

Care of the Range 

When grease or other material is spilled on the range 
while cooking is being done, rub off at once with paper. 

Beside cleaning out the ashes from the range every 
day, the space above and below the oven should be 
cleaned out about once a month, as the soot and ashes 
collected there prevent the proper heating of the oven. 

Never blacken the range without cleaning it first. 
Moisten some stove polish with cold water and rub it 
over the range with a brush or cloth. Blacken when 
stove is cold. 

Use a dry brush for polishing, rubbing very briskly. 
Begin at front of range when the stove is warm. 

To Clean Metals 

Always wash articles carefully before cleaning. After 
cleaning, wash in hot water containing ammonia, and 
dry carefully. The following cleansing agents may be 
used: 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 19 

Tin. Sapolio or silver-polish; whiting, moistened 
with ammonia, alcohol, or water. 

Steel Knives. Brick or Sapolio. 

Silver. Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with 
ammonia, alcohol, or water. 

Gold. Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with am- 
monia, alcohol, or water. 

Copper. Vinegar and salt, then ammonia. 

Brass. Vinegar and salt, then ammonia. 

Zinc. Whiting moistened with vinegar, or powdered 
pumice. 

Iron. Rub with oil, then scour with ashes or pumice- 
stone. 

Nickel. Silver-polish, or whiting moistened with 
ammonia, alcohol, or water. 



What is the difference between an ice-box and a 
refrigerator? 

Which requires the more ice? 

Why? 

How may you keep the ice from melting rapidly? 

Why should you frequently flush the sink-pipes? 

How should you care for a gas range? 

Name a standard silver-polish. 

Which is the cheapest silver-polish? 



20 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Experiments 

Mix 1 tsp. cornstarch with % c * c ld water. State 
result. 

Mix 1 tsp. cornstarch with J4 c. boiling water. State 
result. 

Mix 2 tsp. cornstarch with J/g c. cold water, and stir 
into J4 c - boiling water. State result. 

Taste this mixture; then boil 15 m. and taste again. 
What difference do you notice? 

Mix 2 tsp. cornstarch with 4 tsp. sugar, and stir 
into i/s c. boiling water. State result. 

Cream 1 tsp. flour with 1 tsp. butter, and stir into 
% c. boiling water. State result. 



Cornstarch Pudding 

1 pt. milk. 1 sq. chocolate. 

1 tsp. vanilla. 1 spk. salt. 

4 tbsp. cornstarch. J^ c. sugar. 

1. Fill mold with cold water. 

2. Scald milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, 
sugar, and enough cold milk to make a smooth paste. 

3. Pour the hot milk over this, stir, return to the 
double boiler and cook 30 m., stirring all the time 
until thick, and occasionally afterwards. 

4. Remove from the fire, add flavoring, and pour 
into the mold. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 21 

5. Chocolate may be melted over hot water and added 
when the cornstarch begins to thicken. 

Serve cold, with sugar and cream, or milk. 

Pineapple^Cream 

2 c. milk. 

3 tbsp. cornstarch. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 
Spk. salt. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 

4 tbsp. grated pineapple. 

Cook as for cornstarch pudding; remove from fire 
and fold in lightly the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, 
and the grated pineapple. Serve cold with cream. 



To what class of foods does cornstarch belong? 
What is its special use in the body? 

CEREALS 

The most important cereal food products are those 
prepared from wheat, corn, rice, and oats. 

Composition 

"Cereals contain all the food principles; they aver- 
age about two-thirds carbohydrates, one-tenth protein, 
one-tenth water, and they contain a little fat and min- 
eral matter." 



22 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Their chief value, however, lies in their starch com- 
position, and because of this they require thorough 
cooking. 



Rules for Cooking 

Allow J4 tsp. salt to 1 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. rolled cereal to 2 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. coarse cereal to 3 c. boiling water. 
Allow 1 c. fine cereal to 4 c. boiling water. 

Add salt to water and stir in cereal with a fork. Cook 
directly over the fire for five minutes, stirring constantly, 
then place in double boiler or fireless cooker. 

Cook the coarse grains 7 or 8 h. 

Cook the rolled grains in double boiler 45 or 60 m. 

Cook the fine grains in double boiler 30 or 45 m. 



Gruels 

In many cases of sickness the patient is unable to 
take any solid food, and a gruel is prescribed by the 
physician. This is nothing but a cereal cooked with a 
much larger proportion of water; usually we use one 
tablespoonf ul of the cereal to one cup of water or milk, 
and cook very thoroughly. The gruel is then strained, 
seasoned with salt, and served very hot. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 23 

Indian Meal Gruel 
4 tbsp. yellow corn meal. 4 c. boiling water. 

Blend meal with a little cold water and stir into boil- 
ing water. Boil gently 2 hrs. Salt to taste. Sweeten if 
necessary, and add milk if desired. Strain, and serve 
hot. 

Flour Gruel 

1 c. milk. Spk. salt. 

1 tbsp. flour. 1 doz. raisins. 

Stone and quarter raisins, then add water to cover 
them; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. 
Add to gruel just before serving. 

Gruel : Mix the flour with a little cold milk and stir 
into scalded milk. Cook in a double boiler J^ h., first 
boiling well over the fire. Add salt and raisins; strain 
and serve. 

NOTE. Do not use the raisins if the patient has 
bowel trouble. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

2 tbsp. rolled oats. 
1 c. boiling water. 
J4 tsp. salt. 

Boil y% h. or longer, strain, thin with hot milk, and 
serve. 



24 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Barley Gruel 

1 tbsp. barley flour. 
1 c. water. 
J4 tsp. salt. 

Mix flour with a little cold water, stir into boiling 
water, boil 30 m., thin with hot milk, strain, and serve. 

Why serve cereals stiff enough to chew? 

What fruits are most satisfactory to serve with them? 

Why not acid fruits? 

Why cook at first directly over the fire? 

Which cereals are the more difficult to digest? 

What is the advantage in buying cereals by the pack- 
age? What is the disadvantage? 

Name those that may be bought in bulk, and give 
the difference in price per pound. 

RICE 

Rice contains more starch and less fat than any 
other grain. It is a good food for people in tropical 
countries and is very easily digested. It should be 
combined with eggs, milk, or meat. 

Boiled Rice 

3 qts. boiling water. 
1 c. well washed rice. 
1 tbsp. salt. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 25 

To wash rice well, put into a strainer and set in a 
deep dish of cold water. Rub the rice, and lift the 
strainer in and out of the water, changing the water 
until it is clear. 

Drain, drop the rice into the boiling water slowly, 
and lift up grains of rice from bottom of pan with a 
fork until the water is boiling rapidly again. Cook 20 
m. to Yz h., or until soft, and add the salt when nearly 
done. 

Drain in the strainer and dry in an open oven, or 
leave in stewpan, cover with napkin, and set back on 
stove to steam and become dry. 

Save water in which the rice is boiled and use for 
soup, gravy, or rice pudding. 

Molded Rice 

1 c. well washed rice. 

2 c. hot milk. 

1 c. boiling water. 
1 tsp. salt. 

Scald milk in a double boiler, add rice, boiling water 
and salt, cover and let cook 45 m., or until kernels are 
soft. When cooked, uncover, that the steam may 
escape. (More water and less milk may be used.) 

Place a layer of rice in cup. 

Add layer of prepared dates, another layer of rice. 
Press firmly together. Turn from cups and serve with 
sugar and cream or milk. 



26 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Where does rice grow freely? 

To what class of foods does it belong? 

What vegetables may we substitute for it? 

How does it differ from the potato in composition? 

If used as a cereal, what proportions of water to rice 
would be necessary? 

Name three different ways in which it may be 
served. 

What is the average price per pound? 

Estimate cost of the molded rice recipe. 



VEGETABLES 

Select vegetables carefully. Wash or scrub thor- 
oughly, and if wilted, soak well before using. Choose 
those of medium size rather than large; buy when in 
season and use freely. 



Preparation 

Asparagus. Wash, cut in inch pieces, or leave 
whole. 

Beans, shell. Shell and wash. 

Beans, string. Remove ends and string; cut in 
inch pieces. 

Beets. Scrub well, but do not cut. 

Brussels sprouts. Remove outside leaves and 
stand in salted water 20 m. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 27 

Cabbage. Remove outside leaves ; cut in large 
pieces; remove core; wash twice, and drain. 

Cauliflower. Wash; remove outside leaves; stand 
upside down in salted water 20 m. 

Carrots. Wash and scrape off the thin skin. 

Corn. Husk; remove silk and wash. 

Onions. Peel and wash. 

Parsnips. Wash and scrub. 

Peas. Shell and wash. 

Potatoes. Wash and pare; make a thin paring. 

Summer squash. Wash, and cut in small pieces. 

Spinach. Remove tough stems and wilted leaves. 
Wash in five waters. 

Turnips. Wash and pare; make a thin paring. 



Boiled Potatoes 

Select potatoes of medium size. Wash thoroughly, 
using a vegetable brush, and pare as thinly as possible, 
leaving them in cold water until ready to cook. 

Cook in boiling, salted water, covered, until a fork 
pierces them easily (from 20 to 25 m.). Allow 1 tbsp. 
salt to 7 potatoes. The boiling water should cover the 
potatoes. 

When done, drain off the water and shake the pan 
until the potatoes are dry and mealy. 

Set on back of stove to keep warm, covered with a 
folded napkin or clean towel. Serve uncovered. 



28 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Mashed Potatoes 

1 pt. mashed potatoes. 

3 tbsp. hot milk or more. 

2 tbsp. butter. 
V tsp. salt. 

1 spk. pepper. 

Cook potatoes as directed above and, when dry, 
mash at once in the pan in which they were cooked. 

Add milk, butter, and seasonings, and beat with fork 
until white and creamy. 

Reheat; pile lightly in a hot dish and serve uncovered. 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potato into small round cakes 
and roll in flour. Butter a hot frying-pan, put in cakes, 
brown one side, turn and brown the other side, adding 
butter as needed to prevent burning. Remove to hot 
platter and serve. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select smooth, medium-sized potatoes and scrub 
them well with a brush. 

Bake in shallow pan on rack of a hot oven until 
soft, about 45 m. Turn occasionally. Serve at once 
in an uncovered dish. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 29 

Creamed Potatoes 

1 tbsp. butter. J tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. flour. 1 spk. pepper. 

1 c. milk. 13/2 c- potatoes. 

Make a white sauce. 

Add \ l /2 c. cold boiled potatoes, cut in half-inch dice. 
Cook until potatoes are thoroughly heated. Add a 
little chopped parsley, if liked. 



Slice a small potato very thin. Place in a glass of 
cold water and allow to stand for one-half hour or more. 
Notice the appearance of the water. What has taken 
place? 

Hold a slice of the potato to the light. Draw, care- 
fully, its appearance. 

Boil the water in which the sliced potato stood. 
What change takes place? 

What causes this change? 

Where does most of the mineral matter of the potato 
lie? 

Why should one not use potato water in cooking? 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Remove skins by placing in boiling water a few 
minutes. They will then peel off easily. Cut in pieces 
and stew in a granite saucepan until tender. To each 



30 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

cup of tomatoes add 1 tsp. butter, J4 tsp. salt, J^ tsp. 
sugar, spk. pepper. Thicken, if desired, with 2 tbsp. 
cracker crumbs. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes or 1 can. 

1 tsp. salt. 

}4 tsp. pepper. 

1 tbsp. sugar. 

lJ^-2 c. bread crumbs 

2-4 tbsp. butter. 

Mix melted butter and crumbs. Sprinkle layer in 
bottom of baking-dish. Pour in half the tomato, 
scatter half the crumbs over this, add remaining tomato, 
cover with crumbs. Brown in a quick oven. 

Spinach 

Freshen four bunches of spinach, pick over carefully, 
and wash in five different waters. Place in a saucepan 
without any water. Cover the saucepan, stirring occa- 
sionally to prevent burning; cook 5 m. Drain in a 
colander and chop fine. 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter in saucepan, add 1 tbsp. flour, 
J4 tsp. salt, % tsp. pepper. Then stir in J4 c - vinegar 
and y% c. water and add 2 tbsp. sugar. Stir constantly 
and, when thickened, add the spinach. Serve, gar- 
nished with hard cooked eggs. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 31 

Why is spinach good for us? 
How else may it be served? 

White Sauce 

1 c. milk. 

2 tbsp. flour. 

1 tbsp. butter. 
J/ tsp. salt. 
Spk. pepper. 

Melt butter, add flour, salt, pepper, stir well to- 
gether, add part of milk and stir until smooth and 
thick. Add half remaining milk, stir until boiling; add 
remaining milk and boil. 

Creamed Carrots 

2 c. cubed, cooked carrots. 
1 c. white sauce. 

Prepare carrots according to directions, cut into J^ 
inch dice, boil until tender in salted water, drain, and 
serve in white sauce. 

Young carrots will cook in twenty to thirty minutes; 
the older ones will require one hour. 

Green Peas 

Prepare peas as directed. Wash the pods carefully 
and boil in a small quantity of water. Cook the peas 
in this water. 



32 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

If young and fresh, the peas will cook in thirty 
minutes; when old, allow forty-five to sixty minutes. 
Drain, season with salt and butter, and serve. If de- 
sired, the liquid may be thickened like a white sauce 
and the peas served in this. 

Always save the liquid in which peas have been 
cooked, as it may be used in soups. 



SERVICE 
The Breakfast Table 

Arrange cups and saucers, creamer and sugar bowl, in 
front of the hostess. A coffee-stand should be placed 
at the right of the hostess for the coffee-pot. 

All heavy dishes are placed in front of the host, so 
that he may serve. 

With fruit, finger bowls should be used. 

The Dinner Table 

The carving set and knife and fork rests should be 
laid in front of the host. The host serves the fish and 
meat. 

The soup ladle should be placed in front of the host- 
ess, handle to the right. The hostess should serve the 
soup, salad, dessert, and coffee, and usually the vege- 
tables. 

The soup spoons should be placed at the right of 
the knives at each place, bowls up. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 33 

Rules for Serving 

Cold food should be served on cold dishes, hot food 
on hot dishes. 

Never fill glasses or cups more than three-fourths 
full. Fill before each course. 

Do not let the table become disorderly during the 
meal. 

When passing a dish, hold it so that the thumb will 
not rest upon the upper surface. 

The waitress should stand at the back of the hostess, 
or while the meat is being carved, at the back of the 
host. She should take each plate from the left as it is 
ready to serve, in her right hand, and place it before 
the person for whom it is intended. Everything is 
served at the left, except liquids in glasses, or cups and 
saucers. 

In passing dishes from which a person is to help 
himself, pass always to the left side, so that the food 
may be taken with the right hand. 

All soiled dishes should be removed from the left. 
The waitress should never pile one dish upon another. 

When one course is finished, soiled dishes should be 
removed first, then food, then clean dishes, then 
crumbs. 

When folding the tablecloth or napkins always fold 
very carefully in the same creases. 



PART II 



EGGS 

Eggs are a tissue-building food, the chief protein 
being a form of albumen. In food value and in digesti- 
bility they compare favorably with meat, and during 
the spring and summer should be freely used. 

When an egg is perfectly fresh it will sink to the 
bottom of a brine made in the proportion of two ounces 
of salt to one pint of water; if stale, the egg will float 
upon the surface. If a stale egg is shaken gently it will 
give a rattling sound. 

Soft-cooked Eggs 

Place egg in stewpan of boiling water, using a spoon. 
Cover closely and place where water will keep hot, but 
where it will not boil. Cook 6 to 8 m. 

Hard-cooked Eggs 

Place egg in stewpan of boiling water, using a spoon. 
Cover closely and place where water will keep hot, but 
where it will not boil. Cook 40 to 45 m. 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Have a shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling, salted 
water, allowing 1 tsp. salt to 1 pt. water. Put a slightly 
buttered muffin-ring in the water. 



38 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Break egg carefully into a cup and slip into muffin- 
ring. The water should cover the egg. 

When there is a film on top, and the white is firm, 
carefully take up ring and egg with a buttered griddle- 
cake turner and place egg on a circular piece of buttered 
toast. 



Pour boiling water over the white of an egg and boil 
hard. How does it appear? 

Fry a little in hot fat. What is the effect? 

Pour some water heated to 180 F. over the white 
and let stand five minutes. What is the appearance? 

Why should you not cook your eggs at 212 F.? 

How much water do you need to use when cooking 
one egg in the shell? 

When cooking four? 

Name the different parts of an egg. 

Why does an egg become "stale"? 

How many eggs of average size in a pound? 

Compare the cost of steak and eggs. 

Scrambled Eggs 

4 eggs. J^ tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. milk. Spk. pepper. 

J/2 tbsp. butter. 

Beat eggs slightly with a fork, add milk and season- 
ing. Melt butter in saucepan, turn in the egg mixture, 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 39 

and stir over a slow fire until it begins to set. Remove 
from fire and cook over hot water until firm, but not 
hard. Serve at once on slices of buttered toast. 



Light Omelet 

2 eggs. y% tsp. salt. 

1 tsp. butter. 1 spk. pepper. 

2 tbsp. water. 

Separate yolk from white of eggs. Beat yolks until 
light and creamy, add salt, pepper, and water. Beat 
whites until stiff, cut, and fold them into the yolks. 

Heat omelet pan, and butter sides and bottom. Turn 
in the mixture, spread evenly, place where it will cook 
slowly, occasionally turning the pan that omelet may 
brown evenly. 

When omelet is well risen and delicately browned 
underneath, place pan on oven grate to finish cooking. 
Fold and turn upon a hot platter. 

French Omelet 
3 eggs. y^ tsp. salt. Spk. pepper. 

Beat the eggs, with the seasoning, just enough to 
break the yolks. Melt ^ tsp. butter in a frying-pan. 
Turn in the egg mixture, and with a fork lift the cooked 
portions of the egg, allowing the liquid on top to run 
down underneath. When the egg is cooked, but still 
quite soft on top, slip the knife underneath and roll 



40 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

the omelet to the center. Let it cook for a moment, 
then turn upon a hot platter. Serve at once. 



Estimate cost of each recipe and note the number of 
people it will serve. 

Egg Vermicelli 

Y^ tbsp. butter. % tsp. salt. 

2]/2 tbsp. flour. 1 spk. pepper. 

1J^ c. milk. 4 to 6 slices toasted bread. 

3 hard-cooked eggs. 

Make a white sauce of the first five ingredients. 

Chop the whites of the eggs, add to the white sauce, 
and pour over the toasted bread. 

Press the yolks through a strainer and sprinkle over 
the top. 

General Rules for Custards 

When using milk and eggs together in cooking, cook 
them at a low temperature. Soft custards should be 
cooked in a double boiler. Baked custards should be 
set in a pan of hot water while baking. 

When putting hot milk and cold egg together, pour 
the milk on the egg very slowly, while stirring. 

Stir a soft custard all the time while cooking, and 
when done take out of the hot water immediately. 

Should the custard curdle, place the saucepan in cold 
water and beat the custard with a Dover egg-beater. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 41 

A soft custard is done when it forms a coating on a 
spoon. 

A baked custard is done when a silver knife inserted 
in the custard comes out clean. 



Custard Sauce 

c. milk. Y% tsp. salt. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. J^ tsp. vanilla. 

J4 c. sugar. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the egg yolk 
slightly, add the sugar and salt. 

Pour the hot milk over this mixture, stirring until 
the egg is all removed from the sides of the bowl. 

Return to the double boiler, and cook until a 
coating is formed. Strain the custard and, when cool, 
flavor. 

Three egg yolks must be used if the custard is not to 
be used as a sauce. 

Baked Custards 

2 c. milk. J4 c - sugar. 

3 eggs. y% tsp. salt. 
1 tsp. vanilla or a little grated nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together until light. Add 
milk and vanilla. Pour into buttered custard cups. 
Stand in pan of hot water. 

Bake in oven until custards are firm in the middle. 
Turn out when cold. 



42 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Estimate cost of the egg vermicelli. 
How could you turn the plain baked custard into a 
caramel custard? 
When should custard desserts be served? 



MILK 
Signs of Good Milk 

"There should be no sediment of dirt after standing. 
There should be about one-sixth the total depth of 
cream the narrowing neck of the bottle may make it 
seem even more. The milk should keep sweet twenty- 
four hours, and when it tastes sour it should separate 
into curds and whey, not be simply a uniform white 
mass, as is likely to happen when soda is used to keep 
it." l 

Cottage Cheese 

Heat thick, sour milk over hot water until the whey 
separates. Place in cheesecloth and let drain until no 
whey remains. Salt to taste, adding a little cream to 
give the right consistency. Shape into balls of the de- 
sired size. 

Butter 

Use thick, sour cream. If a large amount, place in 
churn; if small, beat with spoon or egg-beater. When 
small globules of butter have formed, drain off the 

1 Mrs. Richards's " Food Materials and their Adulterations." 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 43 

buttermilk, wash in clear, cold water, salt to taste, and 
shape in rolls or balls. 

Junket or Thick Milk 

1 qt. milk. 2 tbsp. cold water. 

1 junket tablet. }/ c. sugar. 

Flavoring: vanilla, nutmeg. 
(1 tbsp. liquid rennet may be used instead of junket.) 

Place the milk in double boiler and warm it. Do 
not let it become hot. 

Add the rennet dissolved in the cold water, and stir. 
Add flavoring. 

Keep in a warm place till thick. Then set in a cool 
place, taking care not to shake it. 

Serve cold with a custard sauce. 



Why does milk sour? 

What is the curd of the milk composed of? 

What is cheese a substitute for? 

What is condensed milk? 

What is certified milk? 

CREAM SOUPS 

Cream soups are a combination of strained, cooked 
vegetable pulp and white sauce; sometimes a small 
amount of white stock is also used. The proportions 
are equal parts of pulp and white sauce. The vegetables 



44 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

generally used are peas, beans, corn, asparagus, celery, 
and potatoes. 

Usually the vegetable is cooked in a small quantity 
of water, and this is mixed with the pulp before meas- 
uring and adding to the white sauce, but with potatoes 
the water is not used. 

The amount of starch in the vegetable used will make 
it necessary for more or less flour to be used in the 
white sauce; the final consistency of the soup should 
be that of good cream. If the soup stands any length 
of time it will become too thick, but may be thinned 
with hot milk. Allow one cup of soup for each person 
when planning your meal. 

Potato Soup 

1 c. potatoes. 3 tbsp. butter. 

3 c. milk. 2 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. water. J^ tsp. salt. 

1 stalk celery. Spk. pepper. 

J4 onion. Spk. celery salt. 

Boil potatoes, and mash. Cook milk, celery, and onion 
together 20 m. in double boiler. Add to potato, thicken 
as for white sauce, strain, and serve at once. 

Mock Bisque Soup 

2 c. milk. 3 tbsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. flour. Spk. pepper. 

2 c. tomato juice. J^ tsp. baking soda. 
Yz tsp. salt. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 45 

Combine milk, butter, flour, salt, and pepper as for 
white sauce. Heat tomato and stir in soda, let the 
mixture stand 5 m., add to the white sauce, heat, and 
serve immediately. 

Corn Soup 

y% pt. water. 2 tbsp. minced onion. 

1 pt. canned corn. }/2 tsp. salt. 

1 pt. white sauce (thin). J/ tsp. pepper. 
% tsp. celery salt. 

Cook corn and water fifteen minutes. Strain. Cook 
the onion in the milk, in a double boiler, before making 
the white sauce. Add the strained corn pulp and sea- 
soning to white sauce, and serve. 

Tomato Soup 

1 pt. strained tomato juice. 

1 pt. water in which peas and pea pods have been 
cooked. 

1 tbsp. onion. 

2 tbsp. butter. 

3 tbsp. flour. 
1 tsp. salt. 

}/8 tsp. paprika. 

Brown the onion in the butter, add the flour, salt, 
pepper, and stir the tomato juice in slowly. Strain 
into the pea liquid, heat, and serve. 



46 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Why do you use soda in the mock bisque and not in 
the other tomato soup? 

Estimate the cost of the corn soup. 

When would you usually serve cream soup? 



MEAT 

The most important of the protein foods are found 
among the different varieties of meat. All meat is 
composed of water, protein and fat, the proportions of 
each varying in different cuts from the same animal, 
and in different animals. 

Beef is more commonly used than any other meat. 
It is best when taken from a young, full-grown animal, 
four to eight years old. The lean meat should be firm 
yet juicy, and should turn a bright red when cut. The 
fat should be generous in amount, creamy white in 
color, and firm to the touch. 

Next to beef, in importance, stands mutton; this, 
like beef, is found in the market the year round, and, 
if the sheep be not more than three or four years old, 
is good. The lean meat should be bright red in color, 
fine grained and juicy. The fat, however, is stronger 
in taste, whiter in color, harder in appearance, and less 
digestible than beef fat. 

Veal, lamb, and pork are less digestible than beef 
and mutton and require more thorough cooking. 

Poultry includes all domestic fowls; it is more expen- 
sive than the varieties of meat already mentioned, and 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 47 

likewise contains less nourishment, but the flavor is 
usually more delicate. 

Game includes all varieties of wild animals used as 
food, such as venison, bear, partridge, quail, rabbits, 
wild turkeys, and squirrel. 



Pull a small piece of lean meat apart. 

What is the protein of meat called? 

Scrape a small piece of meat. 

Cook and taste both the portion scraped and that 
remaining. (Cook in the frying-pan.) 

What is the effect of heat on the meat? 

Which portion is palatable? 

Place a small piece of lean meat in cold water; after 
fifteen minutes note the result. 

Pour boiling water over a piece of meat. What 
happens? 

What causes the change to take place? 

Where have you seen the same result before? 



48 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 




Diagram of side of beef. 


1. Neck. 
2. Chuck. 
3. Rib. 
4. Short Loin. 


5. Sirloin. 
6. Rump. 
7. Round. 
8. Flank. 


9. Shank. 
10. Plate. 
11. Clod. 



Where will we find the tender meat in an animal? 
Name the three cuts that are the least tender. 
What are these used for? 



Soup Stock 

6 Ibs. shin of beef, well broken. 

6 qts. cold water. 

1 tbsp. salt. 

12 pepper-corns. 

6 cloves. 



c. onons. 
}/2 c. carrot. 
y% c. turnip. 
y<i c. celery. 
2 sprigs parsley. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 49 

Remove }/ Ib. lean meat. Wash meat and bone 
carefully. Put all but the half pound into the cold 
water and let stand 15 m., then bring slowly to boil- 
ing point. Brown the diced vegetables in the marrow 
fat, skim from the spider, and place with the meat. 
Add the lean meat, cut fine, and brown that in the 
remaining fat. Add this to the boiling stock and let 
the whole simmer for 5 to 6 h. Add salt just before 
removing from fire. 

Strain and cool. When ready to serve, remove fat 
and reheat. (If a brown color is not desired, place all 
the meat and vegetables in the cold water at once.) 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices and remove 
the crusts; spread thinly with butter; cut the slices in 
one-half inch squares, lay in pan buttered side up; put 
in the oven and bake until a light brown, or brown, 
without adding any butter. 

Beef Tea 

". 3 Ibs. round steak. 
1 qt. cold water. 

Cut into half-inch cubes, place in bowl and pour 
water over, let stand one hour, simmer 2 to 3 h. 
Strain, season, cool, remove fat, reheat, and serve. 
(Season with salt alone, unless the physician says 
pepper may be used.) 



50 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

In sickness the physician often prescribes broth or 
beef tea, which is a form of simple soup stock. 



Mutton Broth 

2 Ib. neck of mutton. 
1 slice onion (medium size). 
1 qt. water (cold). 
% tsp. salt. 

Cut meat into small pieces, place in bowl with sea- 
soning and water, let stand 1 h. Simmer 3 to 4 h. 
Strain, cool, remove fat, reheat, and serve. (Beef 
broth may be made in the same way, using meat from 
the round.) 

Beef Extract 
1 Ib. of beef from top of round. 

Wipe meat, remove all fat, and cut into small pieces. 
Place in quart fruit jar and put on cover. Place on 
trivet in kettle and surround with cold water. 

Let water heat slowly, care being taken that it does 
not boil. Allow the meat to stand in water for 2 h. 

Strain; press the meat to obtain all the juices. Salt, 
or not, as the physician directs. 



Name four different soups that may be served, using 
the same stock for each soup. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 51 

Broiled Steak 
Meat: 

Top of the round. 

Porterhouse steak. 

Sirloin steak. 

T-bone or short steak. 
Thickness: 

One to one and a half inches. 
Time: 

One inch, 8m. 

One and a half inches, llm. 
Directions: 

Trim, remove superfluous fat; 

Rub granite or iron pan with a little fat; 

Place under hot gas in broiling oven; 

In 4 m. turn, or 

Rub a broiler with a little fat; 

Prepare a bed of coals (glowing red) ; 

Place meat in broiler directly over coals; 

When seared on under surface, turn; 

Then turn every 2 or 3 m. 
Test when done: 

Brown on surface, puffed up and elastic in appear- 
ance; When cut there should be a thin crust, and the 
rest should have an even, red color. 

Pan-broiled Steak 

Prepare as before. Have cast-iron griddle smoking 
hot, place meat on griddle, sear quickly on one side, 



52 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

turn and sear the other side, and turn once or twice 
more. Cook a little longer than when directly over the 
fire. 



How can you recognize porterhouse steak? 
Draw the shape. 
The short steak? 
Draw the shape. 

Why do the juices of steak remain in the meat when 
it is properly cooked? 

How may round steak be made more tender? 
a. 
b. 

Broiled Meat Cakes 

Buy round steak and run it through the meat-grinder. 
To 1 Ib. of meat add 

2 tbsp. minced onion. 
Y tsp. salt. 
J^ tsp. pepper. 

Mix lightly together and shape into small flat cakes. 
Cook as you would pan-broiled steak. 

Beef Stew 

1 Ib. meat, neck or round. 
3 potatoes, medium size. 

2 carrots, medium size. 
2 turnips, medium size. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 53 

1 onion, medium size. 

3 tbsp. beef fat or marrow from bone. 
1 qt. water. 

1 tsp. salt. 
J4 tsp. celery salt. 
y% tsp. pepper. 
Y% tsp. paprika. 

4 tbsp. flour. 

Cut the tender meat into pieces about one and a 
half inches square. Place any bone there may be, and 
the tough pieces of meat, in cold water, and bring slowly 
to the boiling-point. Roll the tender pieces of meat in 
the flour, and brown in the beef fat or marrow. Add to 
the rest of the meat and simmer 3 or 4 h. 

Prepare the vegetables, cut into half-inch dice and 
add to the boiling stew. Allow J/ h. for the carrots, 
turnips, and onions, and 20 m. for the potatoes. (Par- 
boil the potatoes before adding.) 

Remove the bone and tough portions of the meat, 
season to taste, thicken to the consistency of a thin 
white sauce, and serve with dumplings. 

Dumplings 

1 c. flour. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

Yi tsp. salt. Milk. 

Sift all the ingredients into a bowl. Add milk to 
make a soft dough. 



54 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Drop by spoonfuls into the boiling stew, cover closely 
and cook 15 m. without removing cover. 

Be careful not to have too much liquid, or the dump- 
lings will be heavy. 



Why do you brown the tender meat? 
Why place the rest in cold water? 
Why parboil the potatoes? 
Estimate the cost of the beef stew. 



Left-over Meat Dishes 

Remove all bone and gristle, and most of the fat. 
Use the bones in making soup stock or a sauce in which 
to serve the meat. Season the meat highly. Combine 
with potato, rice, macaroni, or spaghetti. If possible, 
use a little tomato with the meat. If the meat is tender, 
simply reheat; if tough, simmer until tender. 



Cottage Pie 

2 c. cooked meat (diced fine). 
2-3 J/2 c. meat sauce, onion flavor. 

3 c. mashed potato. 

Place meat in baking-dish, pour sauce over, cover 
with mashed potato, and brown in a quick oven. Serve 
hot. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 55 

Scalloped Mutton 

Remove the fat and skin from cold roast mutton; 
chop, and season with salt and pepper. 

Butter a shallow baking-dish; put in a layer of 
crumbs, then a layer of meat. 

Next put in a layer of tomato sauce or brown gravy, 
and one of cold boiled macaroni, if liked. 

Continue in this order until the dish is nearly full. 

On top spread a thick layer of crumbs mixed with 
2 tbsp. melted butter. 

Bake in a hot oven till the crumbs are brown. 

Hash 

Mix and heat together equal parts of chopped, 
cooked meat and chopped, boiled potatoes. 

If dry, add 1 tbsp. butter or beef drippings, and 
2 tbsp. hot water, to every 2 c. of hash. 

Season with salt and pepper, adding onion juice, 
parsley, or other seasoning, if desired. 

Rice Balls 

2 tbsp. boiled rice. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 tsp. chopped meat (beef, mutton, chicken, etc.) 

Spread rice on square of cheesecloth, and place 
seasoned meat in the center. Take up the cloth and 
form a solid ball, having the rice entirely surround the 



56 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

meat. Tie with twine. Cook in boiling water 10 m. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 
The amount given is for one rice ball. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

Chop fine any cold, cooked meat. 
Moisten with gravy, season, and heat. 
Spread on slices of crisp, buttered toast, dipped in 
hot salted water. 



What kinds of fat may be used for frying? 
How may we clarify this fat? 
What are beef drippings? 
What may they be used for? 

GELATINE 
Lemon Jelly 

J^ box gelatine, or 2 tbsp. granulated gelatine. 

J/ c. cold water. 

2^ c. boiling water. 

1 c. sugar. 

J/ cup lemon juice. 

Fill mold with cold water. Soak gelatine 20 m. in 
the cold water, and add the boiling water. Stir, add 
sugar and hold over hot water until all sugar and gela- 
tine are dissolved. Add lemon juice and strain into 
cold, wet mold. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 57 

Raspberry Cream 

J/2 box gelatine. 1 pt. raspberry juice. 

Yz c. sugar. 1 pt. cream. 

1/2 c. cold water. 

Cover gelatine with water, and soak J/2 h., then stand 
it over boiling water until thoroughly dissolved. Add 
to it the sugar and raspberry juice, and strain into a 
dish. 

Place the dish in a pan of ice, and stir continually, 
until the mixture thickens, then add the cream, whipped. 
Stir carefully until thoroughly mixed. Pour into a 
mold, and stand in a cold place to harden. 



What is its chief source of gelatine? 

How is it obtained? 

What is its chief food value? 

FISH 

Fish stands next to eggs and meat as a protein food. 
All fish may be divided into three classes white fish, 
oily fish, shellfish. The oily fish are the richest in ex- 
tractives and fat, but are less easily digested than the 
white fish. 

Only fresh fish should be purchased; if good, the 
flesh will be firm and plump, the gills red, and the eyes 
bright. 



58 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Boiled Fish 

Wash the fish well in cold water, wipe carefully, and 
rub with a little salt. 

Wrap in cheesecloth, tie the ends, and place in fish 
kettle. Cover with boiling water. Add 

1 tsp. salt. Slice of onion. 

1 bay leaf. Sprig of parsley. 

Cover and simmer 10 m. to every pound. Take 
the fish from the water as soon as it is done, drain, 
remove the cloth carefully; turn the fish on a hot 
plate and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. 

Fried Fish 

Clean the fish and wipe as dry as possible. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then dip in white 
of egg and roll in bread crumbs or corn meal. 

Put into a frying-pan 2 tbsp. of fat which must 
become very hot before the fish is put in. Turn the 
fish with a broad knife or pancake turner, with care 
not to break the fish. 

When cooked an amber color it is ready to turn. 
In serving lay the slices of fish overlapping each other 
on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley. 

Baked Fish 

Scrape the fish free from all scales. Make a small 
opening down the under side and remove the vitals. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 59 

Wash well inside and out, wipe dry with a clean towel. 
Rub well with salt. Make a dressing of 

1 c. stale bread crumbs. 2 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

2 tbsp. melted butter. 1 tsp. salt. 

Mix well and stuff the fish, sewing it up with soft 
yarn. 

Score one side of the fish with a sharp knife, making 
the scores about one inch apart, and dredge thickly 
with salt, pepper, and flour. 

Baste every ten minutes with the gravy in the pan. 



Make a list of the oily fish found in your market, 
with price per pound. 

Make a list of the white fish, with price per pound. 
Name the common shellfish. 
Name the fish which we may buy dried or salted. 

Fish Balls 

1 c. shredded codfish. Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 c. mashed potato. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. butter. 

Boil fish and potato together; drain well. Mash, 
adding seasoning and beaten egg. 

Shape in small balls, or drop by spoonfuls into hot 
fat and fry until a rich brown. Drain on brown paper. 
Serve hot. If desired, dip in beaten egg and roll in 
sifted, dried bread or cracker crumbs before frying. 



60 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Creamed Codfish 

Split salt fish into small pieces. Soak in cold water 
over night. Pour boiling water over it twice in the 
morning. Drain and stir into a white sauce to which 
you have added three eggs, hard cooked, and cut into 
small pieces. Proportions: 

2 c. fish. 3 eggs. % c. white sauce. 
Serve with baked potatoes. 

BEANS 

Sometimes we cannot obtain either meat or fish, or 
we do not care to serve animal food, yet we must have 
our protein in some form. Then we find that certain 
vegetables will work in very well, and peas and beans 
head the list. This form of protein is not so easily 
digested, nor is it so thoroughly assimilated by the 
system, and it would be very unwise to use it commonly, 
but occasionally it is most acceptable. 

We may serve plain boiled lima beans, Boston baked 
beans, or bean soup; but with many the Spanish beans 
will prove to be the most appetizing. 

Spanish Beans 

2 tbsp. vinegar. Salt to taste. 

1 onion. 1 spk. cayenne. 

2 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. tomato. 

1 pt. pink beans. J of a red pepper. 

4 tbsp. butter. 



A. HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 61 

1. Soak the beans over night; boil in salted water 
until tender. 

2. Change the water three times during cooking. Be 
sure to add boiling water each time. 

3. Remove two-thirds of the beans. 

4. Add remaining materials, with exception of 
salt and butter, to beans left in kettle, and boil 

Hh. 

5. Press these beans, with the onion, etc., through a 

sieve; add the water they were boiled in. 

6. Pour this mixture over the whole beans, heat 
again, adding 4 tbsp. butter, and salt to taste. 

NOTE. A 2-in. piece of fat salt pork may be boiled 
with the beans, and less butter used. 



Lima Beans 

1 pt. dried Lima beans. 

Pick over carefully, wash, soak in cold water over 
night. Place in fresh boiling water and cook gently 1 
to 1M h. 

Drain, season with salt and butter, and serve hot. 



Estimate the cost of the Spanish beans. 

Make a list of vegetables that are rich in protein. 



62 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

HOUSEKEEPING 
Laundry Work 

When preparing for laundry work, sort out the clothes 
carefully, remove stains, prepare the first water, and 
place the more delicate articles in it. If the water is 
hard, soften by the use of a very little soda water (sal 
soda dissolved in hot water) or borax water. Vary the 
amount of soap according to the kind used. Soak all 
white clothes for an hour or more before washing; 
wash the delicate articles without rubbing; put clothes 
through five waters, if possible. Make bluing water 
the shade of the clear sky at the zenith. 

Set the color in delicate fabrics. Sugar of lead is 
good for blues. Use 1 oz. to 1 gal. of water, and 
soak 1 h. (Remember that this is a poison and keep 
it on a high shelf, plainly marked.) Ordinary colors 
will do well with salt in the rinsing-water after the 
first time; allow 1 tbsp. salt to 1 qt. of water. Vine- 
gar is often used for lavender and purple; the propor- 
tion is the same as salt. Alum is good for green; the 
proportion is the same. 

When possible, boil all white clothes, using a small 
amount of soap in the water. 

Hot starch should be used generally for all clothes 
that are to be stiffened. Use 

1 tbsp. starch. J/4 tsp. borax. 



A HANDBOOK OF, HOME ECONOMICS 63 

Mix with a little cold water and stir in boiling water 
until transparent. 

Flannel and silk should be washed in warm, soapy 
water (Wool Soap or Ivory Soap will give good results), 
rinsed carefully in water of the same temperature, and 
hung to dry immediately. (Always wash these by hand, 
without using the washboard.) Iron the silk before it 
is fully dry, but allow the flannel to dry thoroughly. 
Very soft silk may be dipped in water in which gum 
arabic has been dissolved. Mix 1 oz. of gum with 1 pt. 
of hot water, strain through a cloth, and use 2 tsp. to 
1 c. of water. 



To Remove Stains 

Tea or Coffee. Rinse well and pour boiling water 
over the stain. 

Chocolate. Sprinkle with powdered borax and soak 
well in cold water. Add boiling water. 

Fruit. Dip into Javelle water and rinse thor- 
oughly, or treat like tea stains. 

Ink. Soak two or three hours in coal oil, remove 
and wash in strong soap-suds, or rub with lemon juice 
and salt. 

Calla lily. Nothing satisfactory; try ammonia 
several times. 

Milk. Wash quickly in cold water. 

Scorch. Hang in sun and try soap solution. 

Grass. Wash in alcohol and rub well. 



64 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Paint. Rub with benzine or turpentine. 

Blood. Soak in cold water until stain turns brown, 
then wash in warm water and soap. 

Mildew. Rub lemon juice upon the spots and place 
in sunshine. Salt may also be used. 

Iron Rust. Spread carefully over bowl in which 
you have placed % tsp. borax and 1 pt. water. Drop 
by drop apply acid until the stain brightens; then dip 
directly in water. Repeat if necessary. It is often 
wise to add ammonia to the rinsing water. 



Javelle Water 

4 Ibs. washing soda. 
4 qts. boiling water. 
1 Ib. chloride of lime. 

Dissolve soda in water in agate or granite-ware 
kettle, boil 10 m., stir in the lime gradually. When 
cold, strain through cloth and place in bottles. For 
ordinary bleaching, use 1 c. to 8 qts. of water. Do not 
leave in the water over 5 m. 



What is the difference between soft and hard 
water? 

What makes a good soap? 

How do you prepare an ironing board? 

What is the best shape and why? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 65 

BATTERS 

Any mixture of flour and liquid thin enough to be 
beaten is called a batter. Batter may be divided into 
three classes, thin, thick, and drop-batters. 

The proportions for the thin batters are equal parts 
of flour and liquid. 

The proportions for the thick batter are twice as 
much flour as liquid. 

A drop-batter requires enough flour to cause it to 
fall readily from the spoon. 

Popovers 

1 c. flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. milk. y tsp. salt. 

Sift flour into bowl. In the center of the flour place 
the egg, unbeaten, add the salt and milk, stir until 
thoroughly mixed, then beat for a moment. Bake in a 
moderate oven 30 to 40 m. Or: Beat the egg (it is 
better if two are used) separately, add milk to yolk, 
and stir into dry material. Beat with Dover egg- 
beater. Then fold in stiff white. 

What makes the popovers light? 

Experiments 

Place 1 tsp. soda in a glass. Add J4 c - cold water. 
Note results. 



66 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Place 2 tsp. cream of tartar in a glass. Add 34 c - 
cold water. Note results. 

Mix 1 tbsp. of the soda water with the cream of 
tartar. Note results. 

Mix 1 tbsp. of soda water with 1 tbsp. vinegar. Note 
results. 

What does soda come from? 

What does cream of tartar come from? 

What is the name of the product formed from their 
union? 

General Rules for Baking Powder 

2 tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour without eggs. 
\y% tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour with eggs. 
1 tsp. baking powder and J^ tsp. soda to 1 c. solid 
sour milk. 

Rules for Mixing and Baking Quick Breads 

Sift dry materials. 

Mix liquid materials. 

Stir liquid into dry. 

Add shortening, melted. 

Beat well for two or three minutes. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

NOTE: 

Stir all mixtures to make them smooth. 
Beat all mixtures to make them light. 
Cut the stiff whites of eggs into a mixture. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 67 

ORDER OF WORK: 

Look after the heat of the oven; if you have a gas 

range, light the oven. 

Butter the baking-tins with any sweet, fresh fat. 
Get the utensils ready for work. 
Prepare the materials. 
Mix. 

Baking-powder Biscuits 

2 c. flour. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 

J/2 tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. lard or butter. 

Milk or water to make a soft dough. 

Sift dry materials. Cut or chop in butter or lard, 
using a case-knife. Add enough liquid to make a soft 
dough. Turn upon a floured board, pat lightly into 
shape, half an inch thick. Cut, place on a slightly 
floured tin, and bake in a hot oven about 10 m. 



Change this biscuit recipe into shortcake dough. 
Name the different fruits commonly used for short- 
cake. 
Write the directions for making shortcake. 

Griddle Cakes 

3 c. flour. 2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 tsp. salt. Milk to make a soft batter. 

4 tsp. baking powder. 2 tbsp. butter. 



68 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Sift dry ingredients, add beaten eggs and milk, beat 
well and add butter. 

Drop by spoonfuls on a hot, greased griddle. Turn 
when full of bubbles on top and cooked on edges. Cook 
the other side till brown. 



Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

r _ c. flour. H tsp. salt. 

2 c. sour milk. 1 egg. 

1 tsp. soda. 



Syrup 
2 c. brown sugar. % c. water. 

Stir till dissolved and bring to the boiling 
point. 
Boil 5 m. 



What is baking powder? 

Name two standard kinds. 

What is the price of baking powder per pound? 

How many teaspoons in a half pound? 

What kind of a griddle is best for hot cakes? 

What comes next? 

Reduce the recipe for griddle cakes to one-eighth. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 69 

Cornmeal Muffins 

1 c. flour. 1 egg. 

% c. corn meal. 3 tbsp. butter. 

34 c. sugar. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

1 c. milk. y% tsp. salt. 

Sift dry ingredients, add milk, well-beaten egg, and 
melted butter. Place in greased pans and bake fifteen 
to twenty minutes, in a quick oven. 

Graham Muffins 

1 c. Graham flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. white flour. ^2 tsp. salt. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. butter. 

J4 c. sugar. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix, and bake like corn meal muffins. 



Estimate the cost of both of these recipes. 



Wheat Muffins 

2 c. flour. 1 egg. 

1 c. milk. 2 tbsp. shortening. 

34 c. sugar. 3 tsp. baking powder. 

3/ tsp. salt. 



70 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Sift dry materials, beat egg, add milk, stir into dry 
materials, and add shortening, melted. Bake in 
buttered pans 20 m. in a quick oven. 



Estimate the cost of this recipe. 
How many should it serve? 

Boston Brown Bread 

2 c. corn meal. 3 c. warm water. 

1 c. rye or Graham flour. 3 tsp. soda. 

1 c. common flour. J^ tsp. salt. 

1 c. molasses. 

Sift the dry materials, add liquid, and steam in one 
dish four hours, or in tiny cups three-fourths of an hour 
to one hour. 



Explain what takes the place of the cream of tartar 
in this recipe. 

What might be used in place of the water? 

CAKE 

General Rules for Cake 

Prepare oven; prepare tins; prepare utensils; pre- 
pare ingredients; cream butter; add sugar gradually; 
separate eggs; beat yolks creamy; beat whites stiff; 
sift flour, salt, baking powder. 

Add a little of the dry materials to the creamed 
butter and sugar. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 71 

Mix milk and egg yolk. Add half to creamed mixture. 

Alternate with dry material until all is added. Fold 
in stiff whites and flavoring. Bake in a moderate oven. 
If it is a layer cake use a quick oven. If a moist 
cake is desired, add eggs, unbeaten, to creamed butter 
and sugar. 

Plain Cake 

4 tbsp. butter. 

1 c. fine granulated or powdered sugar. 

2 eggs. 

3/2 c. milk. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 

\y c. flour. 

1 tsp. spice or J/ tsp. flavoring. 

1 spk. salt. 



Suggest four variations made from this recipe. 
Estimate the cost of the plain cake. 

Sponge Cake 

1 c. sugar. 4 eggs. 

1 c. flour. 3 tbsp. milk or water. 

1 tsp. flavoring. 2 tsp. baking powder. 

J4 tsp. salt. 

Separate eggs, beat yolks creamy, whites stiff. Add 
sugar lightly to yolks, then flour and baking powder, 



72 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

sifted thoroughly together. Stir the milk, flavoring, 
and salt in lightly, then fold in stiff whites. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



What is the difference between angel cake and sponge 
cake? 

Which is the more tender and why? 

Estimate the cost with eggs at 60^ per dozen and at 
25^ per dozen. 

Gingerbread 

1 c. molasses. J4 c - shortening. 

J^ c. sugar. 1 tsp. ginger. 

3 c. flour. 1 tsp. soda. 

1 c. boiling water. J^ tsp. salt. 
legg. 

Cream butter, add sugar, well-beaten egg, molasses, 
and salt. Stir in the flour and soda, thoroughly sifted 
together. Pour the boiling water over the ginger, and 
add last. Beat well and bake in a shallow pan in a 
moderate oven. 



What could we add to this which would change it 
into a spice cake? 

Give the exact amounts needed. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 73 

CANDY 
Fondant 

2 c. granulated sugar. 
% c. water. 

Boil until it threads on a fork (242 F.). Do not 
stir while cooking. Remove from the fire. When 
lukewarm, beat until creamy and stiff enough to handle. 
Knead lightly until soft and pliable. 

Boil the sugar and water gently; if the side of the 
saucepan becomes covered with granulated sugar, wipe 
it off with a damp cloth, and if the sugar granulates 
when you begin to stir it, add more water and boil 
again. 

Butter-scotch 

1 c. butter. 5 tbsp. molasses. 

l%c. sugar. % tsp. vanilla. 

Boil molasses, sugar, and butter twenty minutes, 
stirring as little as possible, add flavoring and turn into 
prepared dishes. Cut when it begins to stiffen. 

Bonbons 

Roll candied fruit or nuts into some of the fondant, 
making small balls. Dip in some fondant melted over 
hot water. Be sure and stir the fondant while it is 
melting. 



74 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Compare the cost of bonbons made from fondant 
and the high-priced ones in stores. 

Write out directions for making chocolate creams. 
Write out directions for making peppermints. 



COOKIES 

In rolling cookies, handle the rolling-pin very lightly 
and roll only a small amount of dough at a time. Use 
as little flour as possible on the board and be sure that 
the cookies are not floury when placed in the oven. 
Watch the oven carefully, as they burn very easily. 
Cool thoroughly before placing in pail, jar, or can. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 c. molasses. 4 tbsp. butter. 

1 tsp. ginger. 1 tsp. soda. 

Spk. salt. Flour to make stiff dough. 

Boil molasses, add butter, ginger, salt, soda, flour. 
Roll very thin, cut in rounds, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Plain Cookies 

1 c. sugar. 1 egg. 

% c. butter. % tsp. salt. 

Yz c. milk. J/2 tsp. flavoring. 

2 tsp. baking powder. 
Flour to make a dough stiff enough to roll. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 75 

Roll one-eighth inch thick, cut in rounds, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Fruit Cookies 

Yz c. butter. J4 tsp. salt. 

% c. sugar. J/2 tsp. cinnamon. 

2 eggs (small). J^ c. chopped walnuts. 
Yz tsp. soda. J4 c. currants. 

3 tbsp. hot water. % c. raisins, seeded and chopped. 

About 1M c. flour. 

Cream the butter. Add the sugar gradually, then 
add the eggs, well beaten, the soda dissolved in the 
hot water, and one-half of the flour, mixed and sifted 
with the salt and cinnamon. 

Then add the walnuts, raisins, and currants, and the 
rest of the flour. Drop by spoonfuls one inch apart on 
a greased pan, and bake in a moderate oven. 



HYGIENE 

You have studied hygiene in your class-room and you 
know what the word means and how it applies to the 
person and the public. Water, milk, fruits, and vege- 
tables, the city markets, the streets of the town, the 
collection and care of the garbage, the care of base- 
ments, alleys, and back yards, the style of the buildings, 
the hospitals for the care of the sick, all have to do in 
one way or another with public hygiene. 



76 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

How do water and milk affect the public health? 

How may fruits and vegetables be kept in a hygienic 
condition? 

What should be the condition of basements? 

What should be the condition of alleys? 

Give two ways in which you can help the public good 
health. 

1. 

2. 

However carefully the public may plan, the results 
will not be satisfactory unless each individual looks after 
his own personal hygiene. We are so closely bound 
together, especially in city life, that no one can exist to 
himself alone. You have learned that certain things lead 
to increased health and strength. Name some of these 
things. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

If you have indigestion how can you probably over- 
come it? 

How are you going to care for your teeth, and how 
often will you visit the dentist? 

Why are you to use your own personal towel and 
drinking-cup? 

Why are you to sleep with your windows open both 
top and bottom? 

How will you help destroy flies and mosquitoes? 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 77 

MARMALADE 
Orange Marmalade 

5 large oranges. 2 qts. water. 

2 lemons. 2 Ibs. sugar. 

Slice oranges thin, add juice of lemons and pour over 
the water. Let stand 24 h. (uncovered except by a 
thin cloth) . Cook until the rind is tender and let stand 
24 h. longer. 

Add the sugar and cook gently until it jellies. This 
should make six glasses. 

Peach Marmalade 

Peel peaches, halve; measure. To 6 qts. peaches 
take one quart water, cook gently one hour, add half 
the quantity of sugar, cook one hour, stirring often. 

Rhubarb with Pineapple Marmalade 

4 Ibs. rhubarb. 4 Ibs. sugar. 

1 pineapple. 

Cut pineapple fine and rhubarb into half -inch pieces, 
cook together until tender, add sugar, and cook until it 
thickens slightly. 

Add a very little water when beginning to cook. 



What must you do to the glasses before pouring in 
the marmalade? 



78 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Why must this be done? 

How should the glasses be covered? 

Name other kinds of marmalade. 



BREAD 

In our work with marmalade we have been very 
careful to destroy anything that might cause fermenta- 
tion in our finished product. Now we are going to work 
with just the opposite idea in mind. Our earlier lessons 
in doughs have been where the carbon dioxide was 
quickly formed and quickly escaped. When we study 
bread, we find that even the quickest process requires 
several hours, and frequently six to eight hours pass 
before the finished loaves come from the oven. 

The foundation of good bread is good flour and good 
yeast; let either of these be poor and the result is a 
partial failure. By good yeast is meant fresh, pure 
yeast which will grow rapidly and help to produce the 
carbon dioxide we want, and only that. Yeast is a tiny 
plant that grows very rapidly but cannot be seen with- 
out a microscope; to develop thus rapidly it must have 
a warm, not hot, atmosphere, with plenty of food and 
drink. As it grows in the dough it splits up the sugar 
in the mixture, and from this comes the carbon dioxide 
which makes the bread light. A certain amount of 
alcohol is also thrown off, but this escapes before the 
bread is thoroughly baked. 

Remember first the three necessary ingredients in 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 79 

good bread: good flour, good yeast, milk or water; then 
the three accessories which are added to make it taste 
better: sugar, salt, shortening. 

The kneading is necessary to make the gluten elastic, 
for without this we could not have spongy bread. If 
possible, let this be done in the home with the bread- 
mixer, leaving the hand-kneading to the end of the 
process when the dough is shaped into loaves. 

Bread Made with Milk or Water 

2 c. boiling water, or 1 tbsp. sugar. 

1 c. milk and 1 c. water. Y% tbsp. salt. 
1 tbsp. butter. % yeast cake. 

1 tbsp. lard. J4 c. lukewarm water. 

About 6 c. sifted flour. 

Place shortening, sugar, and salt in a large bowl, pour 
in the boiling water, or boiling water and scalded milk. 

When the mixture is blood warm, add the dissolved 
yeast cake and 5 c. flour. Stir till thoroughly mixed, 
using a knife or wooden spoon. 

Add remaining flour, mix, turn on a floured board, 
leaving a clean bowl. Knead until the mixture is 
smooth and elastic to the touch, and bubbles may be 
seen under the surface. 

Return to the bowl, cover with a clean cloth and a 
board or tin cover, let it rise over night in a tempera- 
ture of 65 F. Or, use a whole yeast cake and let it rise 
for 2 or 3 h., or until 2 3/2 times its original size. 



80 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Turn on floured board, knead, shape in loaves or bis- 
cuits, place in greased pans, having the pans nearly full. 

Let the dough rise to double its size, and bake in a 
hot oven. This will make a large loaf of bread and a 
pan of biscuit. 



What is the protein of wheat called? 
What are the two carbohydrates? 
What are the two chief classes of flour? 
What is the difference between them? 
Describe the appearance of gluten. 
Name three varieties of yeast. 

Which would you take with you far out in the coun- 
try? Why? 

Graham Bread 

2J^ c. boiling water. 1 tbsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. shortening. About 4J/ c. white flour. 

J/ cake yeast. Y^ c - lukewarm water. 

Make a sponge of this over night. In the morning 
add 1 c. molasses and enough Graham flour to make a 
stiff batter, about 1^ c. (If very coarse, the flour 
should be sifted.) 

Put in greased pans and let it rise until double in 
bulk. Bake 1 h. This will make two loaves. 

If very dark molasses is used, add J^ c. sugar to the 
shortening and salt, and use only J^ c. molasses in 
morning. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 81 

What is Graham flour? 
Why bake in small rather than large loaves? 
How should you care for the bread when it is baked? 
Why is bread more digestible the day after it is 
baked? 

Quick Bread 

1 pt. warm water or milk (scalded). 

1 tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. sugar. 

2 tsp. shortening ( beef fat or lard). 

2 yeast cakes (dissolved in 1 c. of the liquid). 

Flour to make a soft dough. 

Mix and knead like any bread. Put in a warm place 
and watch carefully; when light, knead, shape in small 
loaves, let rise again until a little more than double in 
size, and bake in a moderate oven 40 to 45 minutes. 
The whole process should not take much over two 
hours. 



Why does this bread rise so much more rapidly? 
Give the signs by which you should know a good loaf 
of bread. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
What causes sourness in bread? 



82 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

THE CARE OF THE BEDROOM 

The only room in which we are likely to pass six to 
ten hours daily, without any change, is our sleeping- 
room. No other room in the whole house should be 
more carefully selected or better ventilated than this. 
The best of all is to sleep out of doors, but only a 
few can do this, and we must try to make the air 
in our rooms as much like outdoor air as we possibly 
can. 

In selecting our sleeping-room let us have a sunny 
exposure, with windows, if possible, on two sides, and 
the space so planned that a bed may fit in without 
standing in front of one window. If we can, let us 
have a hardwood floor, or a painted one, with a few 
rugs that can be easily cleaned; if this is not possible, 
the floor may be covered with a good matting. The 
furnishings should be light, simple, and such as may 
be easily cleaned. The walls should be of soft tone, 
and the curtains light, so that the air will pass through 
readily. 

For the bed itself select a light brass or iron frame 
and put all the money you can afford into your mat- 
tress. Whatever kind you select, let it be the best 
possible, but not too soft. Be sure that the spring is 
firm; where this gives too much one does not rest so well. 
Cover the mattress with a case of unbleached muslin 
that can be easily removed and laundered, and place 
a thin washable pad under the sheet. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 83 

Let the sheets be long enough to tuck in securely at 
the bottom and turn over well at the top, and make 
them of firm, well-woven sheeting. Choose several 
light-weight covers rather than one heavy one, using 
blankets whenever you can afford them wool blank- 
ets, or those that are three-quarters wool. 

Let the spread be simple and light and easily laun- 
dered, and make the pillow-slips long enough to really 
cover the pillows. 



In making the bed, how should you proceed? 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

How frequently should the bedding be aired out of 
doors? 

If some one were sick, how would you change the 
bedding? 

What could you use for a simple rest for the back 
when sitting up in bed? 

How would you get ventilation with one window? 

SALADS 

There is no line of cookery in which more care and 
study are required to gain the best results than in salad- 
making. Yet, when understood, nothing is more simple. 



84 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Certain things are essential to success such as crisp 
lettuce, good olive oil, a well-made dressing, fresh fruits 
and vegetables, well-prepared meat and fish. 

All lettuce must be well washed, the leaves dried in 
a soft cloth, then placed close to the ice in a cheese- 
cloth, or, if nothing else is at hand, a paper bag. The 
uncooked vegetables must be tender and thoroughly 
chilled; the cooked vegetables cut into attractive shapes, 
when desired, and then kept unbroken; fish should be 
freed from all skin and bone and separated into distinct 
flakes; meat must be diced after being freed from bone, 
fat, and all gristle. 

When using cooked vegetables, or meat and fish, 
mix the French dressing with the prepared ingredients 
a half hour or more before serving. The best result is 
obtained by mixing each kind separately, putting to- 
gether just before serving. 

Always try to make the salad dainty and attractive 
when serving. If in individual form, shape the lettuce 
leaves into cup shapes, and garnish where possible 
with some special vegetables, or with olives. 

Remember that the simpler salad-dressings are the 
more wholesome, and should be the ones most com- 
monly used. 

French Dressing 

1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice. ^ tsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. olive oil. Spk. pepper. 

J4 tsp. paprika 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 85 

Place the salt and pepper in a bowl, add oil slowly, 
and mix until the salt is dissolved. Then add the 
vinegar gradually, beating with a fork. 

Boiled Dressing 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 2 tbsp. butter or olive oil. 

1 tsp. sugar. 1 spk. pepper. 

% tsp. salt. 2 tbsp. strong vinegar. 

y% tsp. mustard. J c - water. 

Mix dry ingredients together. Add to egg and stir. 
Add vinegar and water, then butter, and put in a 
double boiler, stirring until thick. 

This dressing will keep several weeks in a covered jar. 
When ready to use, add sour cream, sweet cream, or 
milk, to thin it to the desired consistency. The pro- 
portions of water and vinegar vary with the strength 
of the vinegar. 

NOTE. 1 tsp. of flour and one whole egg may be 
used in place of three yolks. 

Apple and Celery Salad 

2 c. apples, cut in small cubes. 
1 c. celery, cut in small cubes. 
J^ c. walnuts. 

Mix the ingredients together. Moisten with salad 
dressing. Arrange in lettuce-cups, cover with a little 
dressing, and put one-half of a walnut on top of each. 



86 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Salmon Salad 
1 c. fish. Y2 c. celery. Salad-dressing. 

Flake the fish. Wash the celery and cut into very 
thin slices. Mix fish and celery. Add enough salad- 
dressing to thoroughly moisten the fish and celery. 
Toss lightly together with a fork. Heap on crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

Tomato Salad 
Tomatoes. Cucumbers. Salad-dressing. 

1. Place tomatoes in a pan and cover with boiling 
water. Let them stand 5 minutes. Drain off water 
and cover with cold water. 

2. Peel tomatoes, remove thin slice from stem end 
of tomatoes, and remove seeds and part of pulp. 

3. Sprinkle inside with salt, invert, and let stand J^ h. 

4. Fill tomatoes with thin slices of cucumber and 
tomato, mixed with salad-dressing. 

5. Arrange on lettuce leaves, and put dressing on top. 

Potato Salad 

3 c. cold boiled potatoes. 

1 tbsp. chopped onion, or J^ tsp. onion juice. 

Salt and pepper. 

1 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

J^ c. finely cut celery, or 1 tbsp. celery seed. 

2 hard-cooked eggs. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 87 

1. Cut potatoes into Y% in. cubes and add other 
ingredients. 

2. Pour salad-dressing over all, and garnish with 
the hard-cooked eggs. Separate the eggs and sift the 
yolks, as in egg vermicelli. 



Name some other vegetables that combine well in 
salads. 

Name some fruits that combine w r ell in salads. 

What may be used in place of olive oil in the French 
dressing? 

FIRST AIDS TO THE INJURED 

In your hygiene study you have touched upon many 
things helpful to others and to yourself in times of 
accident. 

What would you do for a cut on the finger? 

What would you do for a cut on the arm? 

What is best for a simple burn where the skin is 
unbroken? 

What is best for a burn where the skin is broken? 

How can you remove a cinder from the eye? 

What should you do when some one is fainting? 

How can you extinguish flames on clothing? 

What should you do with blazing fat? 

Give a simple remedy for sore throat. 

What would you do for a cold? 



88 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

What is best for a simple sprain? 

How can you prevent a black-and-blue spot? 

How remove soreness from a bruise? 

What should not be taken for headache? 

What is done for a rattlesnake bite? 

Give a list of a few things that should always be on 
hand in the home and state what you would use them 
for. 

Make a list of foods suitable in case of illness: 

Liquids. Semi-solids. Solids. 



PUDDINGS 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

1 c. molasses. M tsp. salt. 

1 c. sweet milk. 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

3 c. flour. y% tsp. nutmeg. 

1/3 c. butter. Y% tsp. cloves. 

1 tsp. soda. 3/8 tsp. ginger. 

2 tsp. cream of tartar. 1 c. raisins, cut fine. 

Flo.ur the raisins with a little flour taken from the 
3 cups. Sift the dry materials twice. Add the liquid, 
then the shortening, melted. Last, stir in the fruit. 
Steam 3 h. In small cups, steam % h. 

Serve with a liquid sauce or with lemon cream 
sauce. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 89 

Lemon Cream Sauce 

1 c. powdered sugar. 
4 tbsp. butter. 

Grated rind of one lemon. 

2 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Spk. nutmeg. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually; when smooth and 
creamy, add grated rind, juice and nutmeg. Beat 
10m. Stir for a minute over boiling water before serv- 
ing. Serve on a warm plate. 

Liquid Sauce 

1 c. sugar. 3 tbsp. flour. 

1 c. water. 2 tbsp. butter. 

J4 tsp. salt. 

Juice or grated rind of one lemon, or flavoring to taste 
(vanilla or spice). 

Prune Whip 

% lb. prunes. 4 egg whites. 

Yz c. confectioners' sugar. 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

Stone the cooked prunes, drain well, and press through 
a strainer. Beat the egg whites stiff, beat in the sugar 
gradually, then add the prune pulp, a little at a time, 
beating steadily until all is in. Add the lemon juice, 



90 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

pile lightly on a platter, place over hot water in the 
oven and brown slightly, or place in baking-dish and 
brown. Serve cold, with a custard poured around the 
whip. The oven must be a moderate one or the whip 
will fall. 

Custard 

4 egg yolks. Spk. salt. 

1 pt. milk. Lemon flavoring. 

Yz c. sugar. 

Make like any soft custard. 



Estimate cost of this dessert. 

Name other fruits that might be used in the same way. 

Orange Cream 

3 good oranges. 

J^ good lemon. 

J^ oz. gelatine (soften in the cold water). 

J4 c. cold water. 

Add enough hot water to make one pint of liquid, 
including the juice from the oranges and lemon. Beat 
until gelatine is dissolved, strain, cool until of the con- 
sistency of thick cream, beat in 8 tbsp. of whipped 
cream and about J^ c. powdered sugar; beat well and 
turn into prepared mold. Serve cold. 



r A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 91 

Name the fruits which could be used in place of the 
oranges. 

What could be substituted for the whipped cream? 
What kinds of gelatine may be used? 

FROZEN DISHES 

Some of our best and simplest desserts are the sher- 
bets, ices, and creams. An ice is simply fruit juice, 
water, and sugar, frozen together. A sherbet is, usu- 
ally, the same as an ice with the addition of stiff egg 
whites. A cream should be pure cream, flavoring, and 
sugar, or a rich custard with cream added, in equal 
quantities. This last combination is the richest of all. 

In packing the freezer use three parts of ice to one of 
salt. See that the crank works easily before beginning 
to pack, and test occasionally while filling with the ice 
and salt. Do not fill the can more than two-thirds full 
of the ice cream or sherbet, otherwise it will run over 
before it is frozen. Turn very slowly at first, stopping 
once or twice; when too hard to turn, remove dasher, 
pack down, cover closely, repack with salt and ice, and 
allow it to stand several hours to harden. 

Fruit Sherbet 

3 oranges. 3 c. sugar. 

3 lemons. 3 c. water. 

1 banana. 2 egg whites. 

Yz can apricots. 



92 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Press juice and pulp through a strainer, adding water 
to aid in the sifting. Add the sugar, stir until dissolved, 
and freeze. When it begins to stiffen, add the stiff 
whites. 

Strawberry Ice 

1 pt. strawberry juice 



. sugar ,., . , 

\ boil together; cool. 
1 c. water. J 

Juice of 2 lemons. 

Mix fruit juice and syrup, add more sugar if neces- 
sary, pack and freeze. 



Lemon Milk Sherbet 
1 c. sugar. 2 c. milk. Juice of 2 lemons. 

Dissolve sugar in the milk and freeze. When thick 
add the lemon juice and freeze again. 

Fruit Punch I 

4 c. cold water. 

2 c. sugar. 

2 c. chopped pineapple (or 1 qt. can). 

1 c. orange juice. 

% c. lemon juice. 

Boil water, sugar, and pineapple 20 m. 
Add fruit juice; cool, strain, and dilute with ice water. 
Any of the following fruits may be added: 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 93 

Yi box berries of any kind, (mashed through a vege- 
table press). 

2 bananas, sliced or mashed. 
Y% c. grape juice. 

1 c. fresh cherries, stoned and sliced. 

2 ripe peaches peeled, stoned, and mashed. 

Fruit Punch H 

2 c. water. M Mb. candied cherries. 

2 c. sugar. 1 doz. strawberries. 

Chopped rind of 1 lemon. 1 pineapple grated, or 
Juice of 8 lemons. 1 qt. can. 

1 banana. 2 qts. Apollinaris. 

Boil water, sugar, and lemon rind 10 m. Strain. 
When cool add the lemon juice, pineapple, and other 
fruit, sliced. 

Place a large square of ice in a punch-bowl. Pour 
over this the mixture, adding the Apollinaris water when 
ready to serve. 

MENUS 

, Make out three breakfast menus. Plan for four 
in the family and make the cost per person 15^ for 
the first meal and 20^ for the remaining two. 

Make out three dinner menus of two courses. 

Make out three dinner menus of three courses. 

Make out two dinner menus of four courses. 



94 A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Estimate the cost in each case. 
Plan for a family of four. 
Allow 25^ per person in the first set. 
Allow 35^ per person in the second set. 
Allow 50^ per person in the third set. 



INDEX 



ABBREVIATIONS, table of, 4, 5. 
Accidents, First Aid in, 87, 88. 
Apple Sauce, 12. 
Apples, Baked, 13. 
Apricots, Dried, 14. 
Aprons, size and material of, 3. 

BAKING POWDER, rules for use 
of, 66. 

Biscuits, 67. 
Barley Gruel, 24. 
Batters, 65. 
Beans, food value of, 60. 

Spanish, 60, 61. 

Lima, 61. 
Bedroom, 82, 83. 
Beef, 46. 

cuts of, 48. 

Tea, 49, 50. 

Extract, 50. 

Stew, 52, 53. 
Beefsteak, broiled, 51. 

Pan-broiled, 51, 52. 
Bonbons, 73, 74. 
Bread, Quick, 66, 67, 81. 

Boston Brown, 70. 

the making of good, 78, 79. 

made with milk or water, 79. 

Graham, 80. 
Broth, Mutton, 50. 
Brown Bread, Boston, 70. 
Butter, 42, 43. 
Butter-scotch, 73. 



CAKE, rules for, 70, 71. 

Plain, 71. 

Sponge, 71. 
Candy, Nut Brittle, 15. 

Fudge, 15, 16. 

Syrup, 16, 68. 

Fondant, 73. 

Butter-scotch, 73. 

Bonbons, 73, 74. 
Carrots, creamed, 31. 
Cereals, 21. 

composition of, 21, 22. 

rules for cooking, 22. 

Gruels of, 23, 24. 
Cheese, Cottage, 42. 
China, washing, 4. 
Chocolate, how to make, 11. 
Cocoa, how to make, 12. 
Codfish, creamed, 60. 
Coffee, care of, 8. 

how to make boiled, 8, 9. 

how to make filtered, 9. 
Cookery room, order and 

neatness in, 3. 
Cookies, 74, 75. 
Cooking utensils, care of, 3. 

washing, 4. 

Cornmeal Muffins, 69. 
Corn Soup, 45. 
Cornstarch Pudding, 20, 21. 
Cottage Cheese, 42 
Cottage Pie, 54. 
Cranberry Jelly, 13. 



96 



INDEX 



Croutons, 49. 
Custard, rules for, 40. 

Sauce, 41. 

Baked, 41. 

Boiled, 90. 

DISHES, instructions for wash- 
ing, 4. 
Dressing, French, 84, 85. 

Boiled, 85. 
Dried Fruits, 14. 
Dumplings, 53, 54. 

EGGS, food value of, 37. 

how to judge fresh, 37. 

Soft-cooked, 37. 

Hard-cooked, 37. 

Poached, 37, 38. 

Scrambled, 38, 39. 

Light Omelet of, 39. 

French Omelet of, 39, 40. 

Vermicelli, 40. 
Equivalents, table of, 5. 
Experimental formulas, 20, 
65, 66. 

FATS, review questions on, 56. 
Fire, how to build a, 6. 
First Aid to the Injured, 87, 

88. 
Fish, 57. 

Boiled, 58. 

Fried, 58. 

Baked, 58, 59. 

Creamed, 60. 
Fish Balls, 59. 

Flannel fabrics, how to wash, 
63. 



Flour Gruel, 23. 
Fondant, 73. 

Food, three classes of, 10. 
Frozen Dishes, 91, 92. 
Fruit, 13-15. 
Dried, 14. 
Fruit Cookies, 75. 
Fruit Punch, 92, 93. 
Fruit Sherbet, 91, 92. 
Fudge, 15, 16. 

GAME, 47. 

Garbage, care and disposal of, 

17, 18. 
Gas Range, instructions for 

lighting, 6. 
Gelatine, 56. 
Gingerbread, 72. 
Ginger Snaps, 74. 
Glassware, washing, 4. 
Graham Muffins, 69. 
Griddle Cakes, 67, 68. 

Sour milk, 68. 
Gruel, 22. 

Indian Meal, 23. 

Flour, 23. 

Oatmeal, 23. 

Barley, 24. 

HASH, 55. 

Housekeeping, suggestions for, 
3, 17-19. 

Laundry work in, 62, 63. 
Hygiene, 75, 76. 

care of bedrooms, 82, 83. 

ICES, 91-93. 

Indian Meal Gruel, 23. 



INDEX 



97 



Injured, First Aid to, 87, 

88. 

JAVELLE WATER, 64. 
Jelly, Cranberry, 13. 

Lemon, 56. 
Junket, 43. 

KNIVES AND FORKS, care in 
washing, 4. 

LAMB, 46. 

Laundry, method of work in, 

62, 63. 
removal of stains on clothes 

in, 63, 64. 

Left-over dishes, 54. 
Lemon Cream Sauce, 89. 
Lemon Jelly, 56. 
Lemon Milk Sherbet, 92. 

MARMALADE, 77, 78. 
Measurements, table of, 5, 6. 
Meat, food value of, 46. 

varieties of, 46, 47. 

Minced, 56. 

Meat Cakes, broiled, 52. 
Menus, 93, 94. 
Metals, how to clean, 18, 

19. 
Milk, 10. 

care of, 10. 

composition of, 11. 

signs of good, 42. 

Junket or thick, 43. 
Muffins, Cornmeal, 69. 

Graham, 69. 

Wheat, 69, 70. 



Mutton, 46. 
Broth, 50. 
Scalloped, 55. 

NUT BRITTLE, 15. 

OATMEAL GRUEL, 23. 
Omelet, light, 39. 
French, 39, 40. 
Orange Cream, 90, 91. 

Orange Marmalade, 77. 

PEACHES, dried, 14. 
Peach Marmalade, 77. 
Peas, Green, 31, 32. 
Pie, Cottage, 54. 
Pineapple Cream, 21. 
Popovers, 65. 
Pork, 46. 
Potato, Boiled, 27. 

Mashed, 28. 

Cakes, 28. 

Baked, 28. 

Creamed, 29. 

Soup, 44. 
Poultry, 46, 47. 
Prunes, 14. 
Prune Whip, 89, 90. 
Pudding, Cornstarch, 20, 21. 

Steamed Fruit, 88. 

RANGE, how to light Gas, 6. 

care of, 18. 

Raspberry Cream, 57. 
Refrigerator, care of, 17. 
Review questions on: water, 

7, 8; tea, 9; coffee, 9; 

milk, 11; chocolate, 12; 



98 



INDEX 



cocoa, 12; fruit, 14, 15; 
candy, 16, 74; house- 
keeping, 19; cornstarch, 
21; cereals, 24; rice, 26; 
potatoes, 29; eggs, 38; 
custards, 42; soups, 46, 
50; meats, 47, 52; fats, 
56; gelatine, 57; fish, 59; 
beans, 61; laundry work, 
64; baking powder, 68; 
bread, 70, 80, 81; cake, 
71, 72; gingerbread, 72; 
hygiene, 76; marmalades, 
77, 78; bedrooms, 83; 
salads, 87; first aid to 
injured, 87, 88; menus, 
93, 94. 

Rhubarb Marmalade, 77. 
Rice, 24. 

Boiled, 24, 25. 

manner of washing, 25. 

Molded, 25. 

Balls, 55, 56. 

SALAD, 83, 87. 

Apple and celery, 85. 

Salmon, 86. 

Tomato, 86. 

Potato, 86. 
Sauce, Apple, 12. 

White, 31. 

Custard, 41. 

Lemon Cream, 89. 

Liquid, 89. 
Service, 7, 32, 33. 
Setting the Table, 7, 32. 
Silk fabrics, how to wash, 
63. 



Silver, washing, 4. 
Sink, care of, 17. 
Soiled clothes, rules for hand- 
ling, 62, 63. 
Soup, Cream, 43, 44. 

Potato, 44. 

Mock Bisque, 44. 

Corn, 45. 

Tomato, 45. 

stock, 48, 49. 
Spinach, 30. 
Sponge Cake, 71, 72. 
Stains, removal of, 63, 64. 
Starch, use of, in laundry, 62. 
Stew, Beef, 52, 53. 
Stove Blacking, use of, 18. 
Strawberry Ice, 92. 
Syrup, 16, 68. 

TABLE, instructions for setting 
the, 7. 

Breakfast, 32. 

Dinner, 32. 

rules for serving at, 33. 
Tea, care of, 8. 

how to brew, 8. 
Tomato, Stewed, 29, 30. 

Scalloped, 30. 

Soup, 45. 

VEAL, 46. 
Vegetables, 26-31. 
preparation of, 26, 27. 

WAITRESS, duties of, at table, 

33. 

Water, 7. 
Wheat Muffins, 69, 70. 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A HANDBOOK OF HOME ECONOMICS 



RETURN TO the circulation desk of any 
University of California Library 

or to the 

NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 
Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station 
University of California 
Richmond, CA 94804-4698 

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 
' 2-month loans may be renewed by calling 

1 -year loans may be recharged by bringing 
books to NRLF 

Renewals and recharges may be made 4 
days prior to due date. 

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 

NOV28~2000" 



12,000(11/95) 



5292 







33S33.Z 

~X /.& 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



