MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED 

LONDON BOMBAY CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAX COMPANY 

NEW YORK BOSTON CHICAGO 
DALLAS SAX FRANCISCO 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OE CANADA, LTD. 

TORONTO 



MH 
S 



MILK 



AND THE 



PUBLIC HEALTH 



BY 



WILLIAM G. SAVAGE 

B.Sc., M.D. (LOND.), D.P.H. 

COUNTY MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH, SOMERSET 
LATE MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH AND PUBLIC ANALYST, COLCHESTER 

LECTURER ON BACTERIOLOGY, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, CARDIFF 

ASSISTANT IN CHARGE OF THE BACTERIOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT, 

UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON 

ETC. ETC. 




MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED 

ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON 

1912 



COPYRIGHT 



PEEFACE 

THE fundamental importance of milk makes it a subject 
which should be studied and investigated from every point 
of view. The present volume is entirely concerned with milk 
in its relationship to the general health of the community. 

A great deal of loose talk is heard at the present time 
about the dangers of milk sometimes ill-informed, frequently 
exaggerated. There can, however, be no question but that this 
great food, so widely consumed, so readily polluted, is intimately 
connected with the health of the people, particularly of its 
younger members, and that the lamentable want of even 
ordinary care with which it is treated is responsible for an 
immense deal of sickness, ill-health, and death. 

While the danger exists, and should be emphasised by the 
scientific Public Health investigator, it is for him to neither 
exaggerate nor underrate it, but first to measure and assess 
the danger, and then to demonstrate how it can be removed 
or at least diminished. The present volume is an attempt to 
do this. 

Administrative action should be the outcome of the 
application of accurately determined scientific facts to practical 
conditions. In Part I. an endeavour has been made to give a 
summary of our scientific knowledge and of the facts with 
which the patient labours of many investigators have endowed 
us as to the bacterial contamination of milk and its relationship 



vi MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

to disease. While existing knowledge is extensive there are 
still large gaps to be filled up. 

In Part II., for the benefit of the laboratory worker, the 
practical bacteriological examination of milk is described. 
The methods and procedures which may be used have been 
set out in some detail, as I know of no book in which the 
bacteriological examination of milk is adequately treated, 
while it is manifest that the future efficient control of milk 
must be worked in conjunction with systematic bacteriological 
examinations. 

In Part III. the administrative side of the subject is dealt 
with, including an account of the powers and procedures which 
are at present used, either in general or for special purposes, 
and consideration of the practical, administrative, and legal 
alterations which are held to be desirable. 

All authorities on expert evidence in Courts of Law are 
emphatic that evidence of fact should be kept distinct from 
deductions and opinions based upon those facts. In a similar 
way it is desirable that in text-books as far as possible the 
scientific facts at our disposal should be presented distinctly, 
and divorced from the legal and administrative action which has 
resulted or which should result as the logical outcome from 
them. In this way clarity of vision is obtained. If fact and 
deduction were always separated many of the ill-devised and 
unscientifically-founded public health procedures which are 
from time to time advocated would be avoided. In pursuance 
of this object Parts I. and III. have been kept as distinct as 
the intricacies of the subject would permit, even at the risk of 
some trifling repetition and some measure of cross reference. 

I have to thank a number of friends for valuable reports 
and scientific papers giving information upon subjects upon 
which they are recognised authorities. These sources of 



PREFACE vii 

information are acknowledged in the text. I am indebted to 
the Dairy Supply Company, Messrs. Lumley and Company, 
and Messrs. Lawrence and Company for the loan of blocks. 
Several illustrations have been supplied to me by friends, 
while in particular Figs. 13 to 17, and 19, 20, and 21 have 
been obtained through the kindness of Dr. D. S. Davies, 
Medical Officer of Health, Bristol. All but one of these 
photographs were taken by Mr. Leat, Inspector of Dairies, 
Cowsheds, and Milkshops at Bristol, who has been at great 
trouble to obtain excellent photographs of the conditions 
illustrated. 

No bibliography is appended since one would be of 
limited utility owing to the enormous number of references 
which would have to be included. Eeferences to papers and 
reports are given as footnotes and, as far as practicable, and 
indeed in almost every case, I have directly consulted the 
original reports and selected the data bearing upon the 
subject under consideration. 

WILLIAM G. SAVAGE. 

WESTON-SUPEK-MAHE. 



CONTENTS 



PAKT I 

THE BACTERIOLOGY OF MILK: MILK AND 
HUMAN DISEASE 

CHAPTER I 

PAGE 

THE CHEMICAL AND CELLULAR CONTENT OF Cows' MILK . . 3 

The chemical composition of milk Milk enzymes The inter- 
relationship of the chemical constituents Factors influencing the 
fat and solids not fat in milk Physiology of milk secretion 
Histology of the mammary gland Varieties of cellular elements 
found in milk Factors influencing the cellular content of milk 
Milk sediments Factors influencing the amount of sediment 
Sources of the sediment in milk. 

CHAPTER II 

THE SOURCES OP BACTERIA IN MILK . . . . .17 

General summary of the sources of bacteria in milk Intra-mammary 
contamination Sources and method of entry of intra-mammary 
bacteria The milking operation as a source of bacteria in milk 
Manurial contamination Influence of cleanliness of the udder 
Comparison between clean and dirty milkers Bacteria introduced 
from milk vessels Bacteria added from milk strainers, coolers, and 
separators Contamination in transit Bacteria added on purveyors' 
and consumers' premises Flies and milk pollution. 

CHAPTER III 

THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK . . . . . .27 

"Milk bacteria" Streptococci: sources, significance, varieties, 
virulence Staphylococci Bacillus coli and allied organisms : 

ix 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

sources, significance, varieties, and differentiation Lactic acid 
bacilli : varieties, characteristics, significance, kinds of lactic acid 
in milk Spore-bearing bacteria in milk : B. cnteritidis sporogenes, 
B. butyricus, aerobic sporing bacilli Acid - fast bacilli : signifi- 
cance, varieties, characters, differentiation from the tubercle 
bacillus. 



CHAPTER IV 

THE BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK ... .45 

Germicidal property of milk : nature, extent of action, causes 
Factors influencing the multiplication of bacteria in milk Bacterial 
development at low temperatures Comparative growth of the 
different varieties of bacteria under different conditions Multiplica- 
tion of B. coli in milk under different conditions Behaviour of 
pathogenic bacteria in milk Multiplication and viability of typhoid 
bacilli, of diphtheria bacilli, of cholera vibrios, of Micrococcus 
melitcnsis, and of tubercle bacilli in milk, butter, and cheese- 
Thermal death-points of the chief pathogenic bacteria in milk. 



CHAPTER V 

MILK AND THE ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

Sources of infection of milk The general characters of milk-borne 
outbreaks Diphtheria spread by milk Typhoid fever spread 
by milk Scarlet fever spread by milk Sore-throat and other 
septic conditions spread by milk- Summary of milk-borne sore- 
throat outbreaks Outbreaks of diarrhoea or gastro-enteritis spread 
by milk. 



CHAPTER VI 

DISEASES OF THE Cow (EXCLUDING TUBERCULOSIS) AFFECTING- 

THE MILK 103 

Anthrax Gaertner infections Gastro-enteritis Septic conditions 
Malta fever Cow-pox Mastitis in cows : prevalence, bacterio- 
logy, relationship of mastitis streptococci to human streptococci, 
bovine mastitis as a cause of human disease Ulcerated teats 
Bovine scarlet fever The cow as a carrier of human disease 
bacilli. 



CONTENTS xi 

CHAPTER VII 

PAGE 

TUBERCULOSIS OF THE Cow IN EELATION TO HUMAN DISEASE . 125 

The prevalence of bovine tuberculosis Tuberculous cows and the 
secretion of tubercle bacilli Prevalence of cows with udder tuber- 
culosis Udder tuberculosis and tubercle bacilli in the milk The 
detection of bovine tuberculosis : clinical diagnosis, bacteriological 
examination, use of tuberculin Sources of error in tuberculin 
diagnosis Methods of spread of bovine tuberculosis Prevalence of 
tubercle bacilli in milk, in butter, in cheese Bovine tuberculosis 
as a cause of human disease Human and bovine types of tubercle 
bacilli Comparative prevalence of these types in the human subject 
Comparative prevalence of abdominal tuberculosis in Great Britain 
. and Germany Paths of infection in tuberculosis. 

CHAPTER VIII 
MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY . . . . . .153 

The general relationship of milk to child mortality The infantile 
mortality rate Epidemic diarrhoea : general epidemiological 
features, relationship to hand-feeding, special relationship to milk, 
the place of specific infection Comparative investigations upon the 
relationship of cows' milk to infant mortality The evidence of the 
pure milk institutions : French, English, American. 

PAKT II 
THE BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF MILK 

CHAPTER IX 

GENERAL PARTICULARS AND PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE . .171 

Objects of a bacteriological examination of milk Collection of 
samples Particulars to record Dilution of the sample. 

CHAPTER X 

BACTERIAL ESTIMATIONS TO DETERMINE THE GENERAL CON- 
TAMINATION OF MILK . . . . . . .177 

Estimation of the number of bacteria : media, temperature of 
incubation, reaction of medium, exact procedure, dilutions to 
employ, direct enumeration from the centrifugalised deposit 



xii MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

PAGE 

Estimation of the number of B. coli and allied organisms : pro- 
cedure, composition of media to use, dilutions to examine, pro- 
cedure to isolate, comparison of methods, identification tests to use, 
comparative value of the different identification tests Determina- 
tion of the number of streptococci : procedure, isolation, differentia- 
tion tests, preparation of media Estimation of the number of B. 
enter itidis sporoyenes spores : methods, dilutions to use, patho- 
genicity tests. 

CHAPTER XI 

THE CELLULAR AND SEDIMENT EXAMINATION OF MILK . . 191 

Methods for estimating the cellular contents Comparative value of 
the different methods Examination of the stained centrifugalised 
deposit Comparative count of the different cellular elements 
Methods for estimating the sediment in milk Value of the 
cytological estimation Value of the sediment estimation. 



CHAPTEE XII 

CHEMICAL TESTS TO ESTIMATE THE PURITY AND FRESHNESS OF 
MILK. THE EXAMINATION OF CREAM AND SPECIAL 
FORMS OF MILK . ..... 

Acidity determinations : variations, value, method of estimation 
The determination of the formalin-methylene blue reduction time 
The detection of heated milk The detection of preservatives. 

Condensed milk : method of examination, bacterial content 
Dried milk Examination of cream. 



CHAPTER XIII 

THE DETECTION OF PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN MILK 

B. tuberculosis : microscopic method of detection, inoculation 
methods, reliability of the methods Differentiation of tubercle 
bacilli of human and bovine origin Detection of tubercle bacilli in 
butter Detection and isolation of diphtheria bacilli Isolation 
of the typhoid bacillus Isolation of other pathogenic bacilli. 



CHAPTER XIV 

INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS AND BACTERIOLOGICAL STANDARDS 

FOR MILK ......... 228 

The three groups of contamination Comparative value of the total 
bacteria estimation as a measure of general contamination Value 
of the B. coli estimation : for byre milk, for vended milk, coli 



CONTENTS xiii 

PAGE 

standards Value of the streptococcus estimation Value of the 
B. enteritidis sporogenes estimation Value of the examination of the 
stained centrifugalised deposit Bacteriological milk standards : 
utility, variations with nature of the milk, suggested standards. 



PAKT III 
PUBLIC HEALTH CONTEOL OF THE MILK SUPPLY 

CHAPTER XV 

EXISTING CONDITIONS OF THE MILK SUPPLY .... 243 

Structural byre defects : floor, drainage, lighting, ventilation, air 
space Proximity of the manure heap to the byre Cleanliness 
of the cows Cleanliness of the milk vessels Water supply for 
cows and for washing milk vessels The milking process as usually 
conducted Wet milking Milk transit The cooling of milk 
Railway transit Churns and milk contamination Milk-sorting at 
railway stations Conditions under which milk is purveyed 
General shops selling small amounts of milk Provision for milk 
storage on consumer's premises. 

CHAPTER XVI 

REFORMS IN THE CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY . . . 272 

Essential structural requirements of a good cowshed Air-space 
standards Lighting and ventilation requirements Influence of 
cold sheds on the cows Floor construction and drainage of cow- 
sheds Water supply to sheds and cows The essentials of clean 
milking Milking machines Freedom of the cow and those who 
handle milk from disease Milk strainers Cooling of milk Rate 
of cooling and heating up of milk Types of milk coolers Milk- 
collecting depots and factories Sanitary milk churns Locking of 
churns in transit Railway transit Regulating the mixing of 
milk Improvements in milk-purveying Bottles v. cans for delivery 
Types of milk bottle Care of milk by the consumer. 

CHAPTER XVII 

LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND APPLICABLE TO MILK . . .298 

Contagious Diseases (Animals) Act, 1878 Dairies, Cowsheds, and 
Milkshops Orders Model regulations under the Orders Public 



xiv MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

Health Act, 1875 Sec. 28, Public Health Acts Amendment Act, 
1890 Section 4, Infectious Diseases Prevention Act, 1890 Public 
Health Acts Amendment Act, 1907 The Sale of Foods and 
Drugs Acts, 1875 and 1899 The Sale of Milk Regulations, 1901 
The Public Health (Regulations as to Food) Act, 1907 The 
general objects of milk legislation Legal relationship between milk 
and infectious disease Law as to preservatives in milk. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

THE PREVENTION OP HUMAN TUBERCULOSIS OP BOVINE ORIGIN 321 

The difficulties in the way of the control of bovine tuberculosis Bang's 
method Bang's system in the Birmingham district Ostertag's 
method Vaccination against tuberculosis The control of bovine 
tuberculosis in the light of American experience Manchester Milk 
Clauses and other local Acts Influence of these local Acts upon the 
prevalence of tuberculous milk Their influence upon the prevalence 
of udder tuberculosis Their influence upon the general purity of 
the milk supply Consideration of the value of the special milk 
clauses Methods and measures advocated for eradicating bovine 
tuberculosis Report of the American Veterinary Medical Associa- 
tion Committee. 



CHAPTER XIX 

SPECIAL METHODS TO OBTAIN A PURER MILK SUPPLY . .347 

Certified milk : origin, objects, nature of the control, regulations of 
the New York Milk Commission, the extent of the movement 
English Milk Depots: objects, methods of working, results obtained, 
cost ; proper functions of Milk Depots The score-card system 
The permit system Municipal milk control in Wellington (New 
Zealand). 



CHAPTER XX 

ARTIFICIAL METHODS FOR THE PRESERVATION OF MILK . . 371 

Methods available- Eefrigeration Sterilisation Commercial steril- 
ised milk Changes which occur in heated milk Influence of 
heating upon the dietetic and other qualities of milk Pasteurisa- 
tion : nature, types of pasteurisers, efficiency to kill pathogenic 
bacteria, objections Use of chemical preservatives Efficiency of 
preservatives Amounts added and detected Objections to their 
use Recommendations of the Departmental Committee Hydrogen 
peroxide as a milk preservative Condensed milk Dried milk 
Reconstructed milk. 



CONTENTS xv 

CHAPTER XXI 

PAGE 

MACHINERY AND PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN A PURE MILK SUPPLY 396 

The essential requirements of a pure milk supply Effects of the 
Board of Agriculture standards The prevalence of milk-toning 
Effects of a low chemical standard for milk Naturally chemically 
deficient milk The appeal to the cow Justice of the present 
chemical standards Veterinary inspection of cows Limitations of 
existing powers for protecting the consumer from specific infections 
carried by milk Procedures to obtain clean milk : improvements 
in existing administrative powers, artificial purification of milk, 
municipalisation of milk trade, gentle education of the cow 
keeper and milk vendor, education of the milk trade by the 
rejection of dirty milk Pure milk and the price of milk. 



APPENDICES 

1. MANCHESTER TUBERCULOSIS MILK CLAUSES . . . .418 

2. TUBERCULOSIS ORDER (1909) OF THE BOARD OF AGRICULTURE 422 

3. DANISH (1904) TUBERCULOSIS ACT 430 

4. MILK AND DAIRIES BILL OF MR. JOHN BURNS . .433 

5. NEW JERSEY CERTIFIED MILK ACT OF 1909 . . .447 

6. EEPORTS REQUIRED AND EULES ENFORCED BY AN ENGLISH 

MILK COMPANY (Messrs. Welford and Sons) . . .451 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

FIG. PAGE 

1. Section of Cow's Udder .... 10 

2. Cellular Elements in Milk . . . . .12 
Chart. Typhoid Fever at Clifton . . .To face 84 

3. Ulcerated Teats . . . . . .113 

4. Chart showing Bacteria in Milk and deaths under 5 years . 165 

5. Milk-Collecting Bottle . . . . .173 

6. Milk-Collecting Apparatus . . . .173 

7. Dilution of Milk Samples . .. . . .175 

8. B. enteritidis sporogenes Enumeration Jar . . .190 

9. Centrifugal Tube for Leucocyte Enumeration . . 193 

10. Apparatus for estimating Milk Sediments . . .196 

1 1 . Experimental Tuberculosis in a Guinea-pig . . 217 

12. Human and Bovine Tubercle Bacilli Cultures upon Glycerine 

Agar ....... 221 

13. Defective Country Cowshed .... 244 

14. Dilapidated Urban Cowshed . . . .245 

15. Manure stacked outside Cowshed . . . .249 

16. Dirty Manure-plastered Cows in a Shed . . .253 

17. Premises and Cleaning Appliances for Milk Vessels . 257 

18. Diagrams showing Types of Milk Churn Lids . . 260 

19. Railway Station showing Churns deposited on the Platforms 261 

20. General Shop used for selling Milk . . . 265 

21. Part of the Premises of a General Dealer also selling Milk . 269 

22. Types of Cowsheds . . . . . .277 

23. Two kinds of Milk Pails . . . . .282 

24. The Burrell-Lawrence-Kennedy Cow Milker . . 283 

25. Method of Cleaning of Milking Machine . . .284 

26. " Ulax " Strainer 287 



XV111 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



PAGE 



27. Lawrence's Refrigerator . . .288 

28. Cylindrical Refrigerator . . .288 

29. Whole Churn ... .292 

30. Section of a satisfactory Churn . .292 

31. Steam Turbine Brush Machine . .295 

32. Sterilised Milk Bottle . .296 

33. Milk Bottle for ordinary milk delivery 296 

34. Bottle Cap . 296 

35. " Retainer " type of Pasteuriser . .379 



PAET I 

THE BACTERIOLOGY OF MILK: MILK AND 
HUMAN DISEASE 



CHAPTER I 



THE CHEMICAL AND CELLULAR CONTENT OF COWS MILK 



MILK is the secretion of a living animal, and as such is highly 
complex in nature and liable to variation in its composition, 
facts which must always be kept in mind in dealing with 
its chemical, bacteriological, and physiological properties. 
No artificial mixture of chemical substances, even in the 
exact proportions in which they occur in milk, will yield 
milk. It has constituents and properties beyond the merely 
chemical. 

Chemically it is essentially a mixture of proteids, milk 
sugar and salts dissolved in water, and holding in suspension 
fat iii the form of finely divided globules. 

Wynter Blythe 1 gives the average composition of healthy 
cows' milk as follows : 





Parts per 




cent by 




weight. 




' Butyrin 


0'15 \ 




Caproin 


0-14 




Caprylin 


0-02 




Capri n . 


0-07 


Milk 1'at . 


Laurin . 


0-29 L 3-90 




Myristicin 


0-79 




Palmitin 


1-00 




Stearin . 


0-07 




^ Olein . 


1-37 


Casein . . . . . 


. 3-00 


Albumen ...... 


. 0-40 


Milk sugar ...... 


. 4-75 



1 Foods: their Composition and Analysis, 1909, p. 204. 
3 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



Ash derived from 
the following salts, of 
which the percentage 
composition according 
to Soldner = 



Water 



Sodium chloride 


Parts per 
cent by 
weight. 
10-62^ 


Potassium ,, 
Mono-pot, phosphate 
Di-pot. ,, 
Pot. citrate 


9-16 
12-77 
9-22 
5-47 




Di-mag. phosphate . 
Magnesium citrate . 
Di-calcium citrate . 


3-71 
4-05 
7-42 


- 0-75 


Tri-calcium phosphate 
Calcium citrate 


8-90 
23-55 




Lime combined with proteids 


5-13 , 





87-20 



"Besides the above there are the colouring-matter of milk (lactochrome), 
odorous principles, bitter principles (probably derived from the plants 
eaten), small quantities of other proteid bodies, kreatinine, urea, alcohol, 
and fluorides," 

In addition milk contains a number of enzymes or ferments, 
which are of considerable interest. The following may be 
mentioned : 

Gcdactase. This is the principal proteolytic ferment found 
in milk. It converts proteids into proteoses and peptones, 
and finally into amino-acids. It was first recognised by 
Babcock and Russell in 1897. According to Jensen it 
liquefies gelatine. Later investigations have shown that 
galactase is probably a mixture of enzymes. 

Spolverini found trypsin and pepsin in milk, but this 
observation has not been confirmed. 

Lipase. This fat-splitting ferment has been found by a 
number of observers. It hydrolyses butyrin into glycerine 
and butyric acid. 

Catalase. The ferments included under this name have 
the power of decomposing hydrogen peroxide and are found in 
milk. Peroxidases are also present, shown by their power of 
effecting the oxidation of certain easily oxidisable substances. 

Reductases. Apparently reducing ferments are present in 
milk. Formalin-methylene blue solution is reduced by fresh 
milk, and this is supposed to be due to a reducing ferment. 

Little or nothing is known about the physiological im- 
portance of these enzymes. Their thermal death points vary 
with the different ferments, but all those in milk lie between 



CONTENT OF COWS MILK 5 

65 C. and 80 C. They become of practical importance in 
relation to the pasteurisation of milk and its detection (see 
Chapter XX.). 

Vieth has shown, and this has been abundantly confirmed, 
that there is a definite ratio existing among the components of 
the non-fatty solids of normal milk. This ratio is expressed 
as follows : 

Sugar . . . . 13 

Proteids .... 9 

Ash 2 

With milk containing non- fatty solids = 8'9 per cent, this 
gives 

Sugar . . . .4-82 

Proteids .... 3'34 
Ash , 0-74 



8-90 

These percentages agree closely with the figures given above. 

Eevis 1 has pointed out that results of numerous analyses 
show that (a) When genuine milk is deficient in non-fatty 
solids, the deficiency is due entirely to an abnormally low per- 
centage of milk sugar, the proteids and ash being present in 
their normal amounts. (6) When a genuine milk shows an 
unusually high percentage of non -fatty solids, the increase is 
due almost entirely to an abnormally high percentage of the 
proteids, the sugar and ash either remaining normal or perhaps 
slightly increasing also. 

The importance of this fact lies in its relationship to the 
detection of added water in milk. If water is added to rnilk 
Vieth's ratio is not, of course, affected, and the sugar should 
stand at ^-J of the solids not fat. If the diminution met with 
in the non-fatty solids is a natural one, the percentage pro- 
portion of milk sugar should be considerably less than -JJ of 
the estimated non-fatty solids. The amount of sugar can be 
estimated polarimetrically. 

While the nature and physical conditions of the proteids, 
fats, carbohydrates, and salts of milk are of great importance in 
relation to infant-feeding, these considerations are of no special 
significance from the point of view of the present work. From 

1 Journ. Roy. lust, of Public Health, 1908, vol. xv. p. 39. 



6 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

the public health standpoint the broad variations in the 
chemical content of milk are of much greater importance. 

The solids left after milk is evaporated are conveniently 
divided into the fat and the solids not fat. The percentages 
of these constituents present in milk have been made the basis 
of legal enactments (see page 315). Briefly stated, these are 
to the effect that (a) if milk contains less than 3 per cent of 
milk fat, the presumption is that the milk is not genuine, and 
that fat has been abstracted or water added ; (&) if it contains 
less than 8*5 per cent of milk solids, the presumption is that 
the milk is not genuine and is adulterated with water. 

It is of importance to consider to what extent the fat and 
solids not fat are affected in milk obtained from cows under 
different conditions. The following are the most important 
known or alleged causes of variation. 

1. The Breed of the Cow. It is well known that some 
breeds of cows produce milk of much higher quality, especially 
as regards its fat content, than others. This is illustrated in 
the following table from Vieth : 

Milk Solids in Milk of Cows of Different Breeds (percentage*). 





Total Solids. Fat. Solids not 


Fat. 




Max. 


Min. 


Aver. 


Max. Min. Aver. Max. 

1 


Min. 


Aver. 


Dairy shorthorn 


18-7 


10-2 


12-90 


10-2 \ 1-3 4-03 i 10-6 


7-6 


8-87 


Pedigree shorthorn 


16-8 


10-5 


12-86 7'5 1-9 4-03 9-8 


7-6 


8-83 


Jersey . 


19-9 


ll'O 


14-89 9-8 2-0 '5-66 10-4 


8-1 


9-23 


Kerry . 


18-6 


10-6 


13-70 


10-5 1-8 4-72 ! 10-6 


4-9 


8-98 


Red polled 


16-2 


9-7 


13-22 6-6 2-5 4-34 ' 10-2 


7-1 


8-88 


Sussex . 


17-4 


11-5 


14-18 7-6 2-9 4-87 10-3 


8-4 


9-31 


Montgomery . 


16-1 


10-2 


12-61 


6-5 1-4 ! 3-59 10-0 


7-9 


9-02 


Welsh . 


17-6 


11-9 14-15 8-3 3-0 : 4-91 9-6 


8-9 


9-24 



Dutch cows, which are fairly numerous in some parts of 
Essex, give abundant milk, but of low fat content. It may be 
said that whatever the breed of cow average mixed milk con- 
tains milk solids well above the legal standard. 

2. Seasoned Variations. Richmond. 1 from his extensive 

1 Dairy Chemistry, 1899, p. 127. 



CONTENT OF COW'S MILK 



experience, finds that winter milk is of very good quality 
while summer milk is the poorest ; the spring and autumn are 
transition periods. The quality varies in an inverse ratio to 
the quantity yielded. Eichmond gives the following table : 

Mean Monthly Averages of Milk. 



Month. 


Specific 
Gravity. 


Total Solids. 


Fat. 


Solids not 
Fat. 


January . . . 
February . . . 


1-0322 
1-0322 


Per cent. 

12-88 

12-78 . 


Per cent. 
4-02 
3-93 


Per cent. 
8-86 
8-85 


March .... 


1-0322 


12-71 


3'88 


8-83 


April .... 
May .... 
June .... 


1-0322 
1-0323 
1-0322 


12-66 
12-66 
12-59 


3-84 
3-82 
3-79 


8-82 
8-84 
8-80 


July .... 


1-0317 


12-66 


3-93 


8-73 


August . . . 
September . . 
October . . . 


1-0316 
1-0319 
1-0322 


12-73 
12-92 
13 13 


4-02 
4-12 
4-21 


8-71 
8-80 
8-92 


November 


1-0322 


13-19 4-30 


8-89 


December . 


1-0322 


13-04 4-16 


8-88 



3. Morning and Evening Variations. In this country 
cows are milked twice a day, and the afternoon milk is always, 
or nearly always, richer in fat than the morning milk. As 
regards solids not fat the difference is comparatively slight. 
The variations in fat content are sometimes considerable with 
the same cows. The essential cause is the difference in time 
between the milkings. When the intervals between successive 
milkings are approximately equal the morning and afternoon 
milks are nearly identical in quality, the morning milk being 
still slightly richer in fat. With the extension of the interval, 
the percentage of fat in the milk drawn after the longer 
interval steadily falls. 

4. Influence of Feeding. Food exerts a considerable effect 
upon the quantity and particularly the quality of the milk. 
The effect is variable, and the individuality of the cow counts 
for much. The percentage of fat is apparently more readily 
and markedly affected by the food content than the other con- 
stituents of the milk. The beneficial effects of good feeding 
are not always manifested at once, and in some cases are most 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



marked in the milk yielded in later years. 1 The quality 
of the milk may be reduced by feeding with distillery refuse 
and other improper food. This is sometimes done deliberately, 
as the quantity of the milk is thereby considerably increased 
but at the expense of the quality. Excessive quantities of 
turnips may act somewhat similarly. 

5. Influence of the Individual Cow and the Physiological 
Condition of the Cow. Individual cows vary considerably as 
regards their milk-producing qualities, the milk of some being 
much richer in the different solids than others, and this apart 
from breed, age, or period of lactation. The age of the cow 
considerably influences the milk. According to Fleischmann 2 
the milk-yielding capacity of a cow increases up to her eighth 
year. 

The following table from Speir 3 shows the fat content of a 
number of cows of different ages : 

Ayrshire Milk Record Societies. 



Age of Cows. 


Number of Cows. 


Fat percentage. 


2 


22 


3-8 


2 


38 


3-89 


3 


320 


3-87 


4 


189 3-74 


5 


152 3-65 


6 


159 


3-67 


7 


127 


3-63 


8 


87 


3-64 


9 


58 


3-69 


10 


4(5 


3-56 


11 


26 


3-62 


12 


23 


3-67 



The period of lactation markedly affects the quality and 
quantity of the milk. With ordinary well-fea cows the per- 
centage of total solids in the milk nearly always rises with 
the advance of the lactation period. This is especially shown 
as regards the fat. The actual milking capacity of the cow 

1 For example, see Bulletin No. 69, Maryland Agric, Exp. Station, 1900. 

2 The Book of the JJairy, 1896. 
:? Jonrn. Highland Agric. Society, 1908. 



CONTENT OF COW'S MILK 9 

reaches its highest point within the first two months of calving, 
and then gradually diminishes until the cow becomes dry. 

6. Influence of the Weather as regards Moisture and Dry ness. 
In courts of law when a clever advocate is put to finding 
scientific justification for milk of such poor quality that it 
infringes the standard, it is not infrequently pleaded that the 
cause of the impoverishment is due to the climatic conditions 
which more or less immediately preceded the collection of the 
peccant sample. Apparently either very dry weather or very 
wet weather, whichever happens to best fit in with the legal 
argument, is credited with the power to produce the poor 
quality milk. 

This may be the case, but the writer is not aware of any 
reliable evidence in favour of such action, and his own analyses 
of milk, carried out for over five years, do not bear it out. 

With these different factors affecting the quality of milk 
it is not surprising that occasionally the milk of individual 
cows, and still more rarely of individual herds,, falls below the 
legal standard. If the cases in which the feeding has been 
obviously of poor and unfairly poor quality, and the cases in 
which the interval between the milkings have been excessive 
be excluded, the percentage of cows yielding milk below the 
legal standard is small, and of mixed herds very much smaller 
still. 

The question of the justice of the legal chemical milk 
standards is discussed in Chapter XXI. 

STRUCTURE OF UDDER : CELLULAR ELEMENTS 

In . addition to its chemical constituents milk contains 
cellular elements and, nearly invariably, bacteria. The nature 
of the cellular content is of considerable scientific interest 
and also practical importance. 

The udder in the cow consists of four quarters, each with 
a separate teat. While these quarters are bound together by 
connective tissue into one whole, they are each complete and 
self-contained with separate secreting glands, lobules, and milk 
cistern. In a few cows an additional pair of teats is present 
on the posterior portion of the gland, and in rare instances 
these are connected to fully developed secreting glands. 



io MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Delepine points out that there is a lymph gland at 
the posterior end of each half of the udder, close to its 
attachment to the abdominal wall and to the inner aspect 
of the thigh. These glands are soft and difficult to recognise 
by palpation when they are normal, but when diseased they 
often reach a large size and may then be felt through the 
skin. When the udder is tuberculous this mammary lymphatic 
gland is generally considerably enlarged and tuberculous. 

The mammary gland in the cow, like the human organ, 
is composed of a number of lobules united by fibrous tissue. 




FIG. I. Cow's Udder stripped of its Skin to show A, a section of one of the four milk cisterns 
into which a tube (") has been passed through the teat; B, smaller milk sinuses 
around A ; C, mammary vein ; D, origin of the superficial abdominal vein or " milk 
vein." 

The lobules are composed of acini. The milk is secreted by 
the cells of the acini and passes into the small lactiferous 
ducts. These unite to form the galactopherous canals from 
which the milk passes into the milk cistern or galactopherous 
sinus. The rnilk cistern receives the milk of all the acini 
of one quarter, and the fluid passes from this to the exterior 
by means of the teat canal. The teat canal gradually narrows 
to its termination at the end of the teat. The teat walls 
are thick and contain elastic tissue circularly disposed, which 
at the orifice acts as a sphincter, preventing the passive escape 
of the milk. 

In the intervals between milking, the milk collects in 



i CONTENT OF COW'S MILK 1 1 

the milk cistern and in the teat canal, forming in the latter 
a column of fluid. The existence of this column of fluid in 
the teat canal has been denied by some observers, but the 
balance of evidence is in its favour. 

In the goat only two mammary glands are present with 
two teats. 

As regards the histological structure of the acini, three 
layers may be distinguished : (a) a layer of epithelial cells 
forming the glandular cells and lining the lumen of the acinus, 
(&) a thin layer of muscle cells lying upon (c) a basement 
membrane thin and structureless. The actual appearances to 
be seen in microscopic preparations vary considerably ac- 
cording to the stage of lactation. According to the gener- 
ally accepted view, the interstitial tissue and the epithelial 
layers are infiltrated by leucocytes during active secretion, 
many of which find their way into the lumen of the acini. 
These, together with the epithelial cells, are found in the 
milk. 

According to Winkler, a further layer of cells is present 
between the muscle cell layer and the epithelial cells. This 
he calls the germinal cell layer and considers it as the source 
from which the epithelial cells of the gland are constantly 
renewed. 

The histological structure throws light upon the cellular 
content of milk. Cellular elements are always to be found 
in milk even from the healthiest animals, but marked 
variations are met with, both as regards their numbers and 
the varieties present. The cellular elements are usually 
spoken of as leucocytes, but since it is probable that not 
all are actual white corpuscles, although many of them are 
of that nature, it is perhaps better to speak of cellular content 
rather than of leucocytes. 

From his own investigations, 1 the writer classified the 
cells found in milk into three groups (Fig. 2), although occasion- 
ally cells are found which could not be accurately placed in 
any one of these three groups. 

(a) Polymorphonuclear Cells. Medium - sized, with a 
diameter varying from about 7'5//, to 10//,. The protoplasm of 
the cell is only seen with difficulty, but the nucleus stains 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1906-7, p. 205. 



12 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



deeply, and from its twisted shape frequently appears like 
several nuclei. 

(b) Large Cells. These cells vary greatly in size, but are 
usually large, their average diameter being from 13 //, to 16 //,, 
but they may be as large as 24//,. They have a single nucleus 
which occupies only a relatively small proportion of the cell. 
All gradations between these cells and lymphocytes are met with. 

(c) Lymphocytes. Considerably smaller. They show great 

variability in size, in some 
cases being quite small, 
but for the most part 
they have a diameter of 
about 5-7/A. They are 
circular or nearly so ; the 

i (i i \j$$8g# ( nucleus stains deeply and 

\ \ , ( occupies nearly the whole 

of the cell. 

The cellular content 
of milk shows considerable 
variation, even with appar- 
ently perfectly healthy 
cows. The writer has met 
with variations ranging 
from 50 to considerably 
over 1000 cells per cubic 
mm. As regards physio- 
logical conditions, he found 
that the age of the cow 
and the previous number 
of calves had little or no 
influence upon the number, while, excluding animals which 
had only calved within a few days, there was no relationship 
between the number and the period since calving. In the 
milk of cows examined within a few days after calving, there 
is a marked increase in the cellular content, the increase 
being especially in the lymphocytes. 

The milk secreted within a few days after parturition is 
called colostrum. It is yellow and viscid with a strong 
odour, and coagulates on boiling. It contains cells laden with 
fat globules, the so-called colostrum bodies. 






FKJ. 2. 



CONTENT OF COW'S MILK 13 

The earlier stages of pregnancy do not influence the 
number of leucocytes, but in the later stages, when the milk 
is diminishing, a rise in the number of cells almost always 
takes place, the rise being mainly in the large cells. The 
milk of cows " drying off " is of high cellular content. 

In pathological conditions of the milk-producing apparatus, 
there is a marked increase in the cellular content of the milk, 
and numbers as high as 200,000 to 300,000 per cubic milli- 
metre have been recorded by the writer in cases of garget. 
In inflammatory and other pathological conditions it is par- 
ticularly the polymorphonuclear elements which are increased. 
They usually then form 75 to 80 per cent of the whole. 

An increase in the cellular or leucocyte content of the 
milk, as it is usually called, may also be due to some old 
pathological lesion of the udder or teats, all traces of which 
had passed away at the time of examination as far as clinical 
methods are concerned. The following may be quoted as an 
instance : 

Cow No. 46. Leucocyte count of the four mixed quarters 
= 1025 per cubic millimetre. No local physical signs on 
examination, but a very definite history of so-called " milk- 
fever," involving the E.H.Q. (right-hind quarter) only, at 
the time of last calving some months previously. At that 
time this quarter was said to have been painful, and yielded 
no milk. Examined a few days after the mixed milk sample 
was taken, the milk from the individual quarters showed the 
following results : 

R.F.Q. = 280 leucocytes. 
K.H.Q. = 2250 
L.F.Q. = 28 
L.H.Q.= 64 

Hewlett, Villar, and Revis l found that in general, in the 
case of any particular cow, apart from changes produced by 
some special causes, the number of cells per c.c. is fairly 
constant over the lactation period. These investigators have 
more recently classified the cellular elements found in milk. 
They distinguish three common varieties, which they speak 
of as large uni-nucleated cells, multi-nucleated cells, and small 
uni-nucleated cells, and which closely correspond with the 

1 Journal of Hygiene, 1909, vol. ix. p. 271 ; and 1910, vol. x. p. 56. 



i 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

above three varieties described by the writer. In addition, 
they mention as scanty, or often absent, eosiuophile cells, 
vacuolated cells, and cells of indeterminate nature. 

Their results are very similar to those previously obtained 
by the writer, the essential difference being that they do not 
regard any of the cells as of the nature of leucocytes. They 
adopt the view of Winkler that the cells found in normal milk 
are chiefly young epithelial cells and cells of the germinal 
layer which have been thrust into the lumen of the alveolus 
and so appear in the milk stream, and that none of them are 
leucocytes. 

Milk Sediments. In addition to cellular elements, the 
deposits obtained from ordinary milk, either by centrifugalisa- 
tion, or on standing, contain a number of other substances. 
In view of the use which has been made in practical- milk 
examinations of the investigation and measurement of such 
deposits, their character and sources are worth some consideration. 

The amount of sediment obtainable from a given sample 
will vary with the method of measurement, a larger deposit 
being obtained with a fast-running centrifuge than by sedi- 
mentation in a conical glass. 

The terms " dirt " or " filth " are often applied to such 
sediments, but these are expressions which imply judgment 
in advance, and are not always applicable, certainly not always 
to the whole of the deposit. 

The sediment is composed in part of leucocytes, in part 
of inorganic substances, such as sand, but for the most 
part of dust particles, cotton fibres, manurial matters, particles 
of straw, hairs, etc., and bacteria. In milk as vended under 
ordinary present-day conditions, the greater part of it is 
manurial in origin. 

The characters of the cellular elements, and the general 
prevalence of bacteria, can be readily studied by making 
microscopic preparations from a little of the deposit. 

The relationship of the amount of sediment to the general 
cleanliness of collection and transmission has been demon- 
strated by a number of observers. 

For example, Houston 1 with London milks recorded the 
following : 

to London County Council, 1905. 



CONTENT OF COW'S MILK 



Sediment in Milk (Secondary reading}. 
(Parts per million by volume.} 





s 

a 





>o 





o 






~ p 


3| 


0-5 


si 


3-3 


1 > 




|a 


<M 


S 


iO 


1" 


-> 


Series 1. 20 samples of milk from 














20 separate cows . 


100% 












,, 2. 20 samples of milk from 














purveyors' shops . . 
,, 3. 20 samples of milk from 


40 


25% 


15% 


5% 


5% 


10% 


dairy shops 


40 


40 


10 




5 


5 


,, 4. 20 samples of milk from 














railway stations . 


45 


35 


15 


5 






., 5. 20 samples of milk from 














well-known dealers . 


60 


35 


5 






... 



It cannot be doubted but that the vast proportion of the 
matters which make up the sediment of milk gain access 
at the cowshed. 

Orr 1 examined 61 cowshed samples for sediment with 
corresponding samples at the point where the milk was 
supplied to the consumer. On considering the cowshed 
samples and the records of the conditions present on in- 
spection, it was found that the average amount of milk sedi- 
ment from dirty cows was 52*5 volumes per million, the 
lowest being 20 volumes and the highest 120 volumes, and 
the average of milk from clean cows was 31 '7 parts, the 
lowest being 7'5 and the highest 80 volumes per million. 
The amount of sediment varied with the cleanliness of the 
cows and the method of filtering. 

Comparing the cowshed samples, and the same at the time 
of retailing, Orr found a decrease in the latter on the whole, 
and concluded that the sediment gains entrance at the cowshed, 
and little, if any, in transit. 

Delepine 2 estimated the volume of sediment from milk 
supplied to Manchester over a number of years. Between the 
years 1896-1900, he calculated the average amount of slime 
arriving daily in 40,000 gallons of milk to be 106 Ib. In 
1906 the amount of slime in the same quantity of milk had 
been reduced to 79 Ib. He regards the amount of slime as 

1 Report on Milk Contamination, 1908. 
2 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1908-9, p. 341. 



1 6 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

an indication of the care which has been taken in the keeping 
of the cows and in the collection and distribution of the 
milk. 

He finds that although there is no constant relation between 
the amount of dirt and the pathogenic properties of the milk 
when individual cases are considered, there is a distinct average 
correlation between the amount of dirt and the pathogenicity 
of the milk. He records from his work that the reduction in the 
amount of dirt found in the milk supplied to Manchester during 
the past ten years has been associated with a marked diminu- 
tion in the number of samples capable of producing disease in 
inoculated animals. 

Delepine, from laboratory observations, says that it appears 
difficult to obtain milk containing less than 7 grains of 
sediment per gallon, and he accepts this as the irreducible 
minimum. 



CHAPTEE II 

THE SOUECES OF BACTERIA IN MILK 

MILK as secreted is a sterile fluid, but during every stage from 
the udder to the consumer, contamination is possible, and under 
much of the present-day conditions is invited. In consequence, 
milk as vended may, and frequently does, contain very many 
thousands of bacteria. The sources by which bacteria gain 
access to milk can be grouped as follows : 

1. Intra-mammary. 

2. Introduced during the milking operation. 

3. From milk utensils. 

4. From the use of artificial or special milk apparatus. 

5. Contamination in transit. 

6. Contamination upon the purveyors' or consumers' premises. 

1. Intra-mammary Contamination. The view generally 
accepted, up to a few years ago, was that the interior of the 
udder contained no bacteria, and that milk, if not quite sterile 
when it left the teats, yet contained but a few bacteria derived 
from the teat ducts themselves. This opinion was largely 
based upon the fact that with a sterile tube it was sometimes 
possible to obtain sterile milk from the udder. More recent 
investigations have, however, shown that this view cannot 
be accepted. 

Two of the earliest investigators to doubt the accuracy 
of the sterility of the udder were Bolley and Hall, 1 who con- 
sidered the milk cistern might be a source of much bacterial 
growth. 

Moore and Ward 2 in 1898 examined the udders of six 
cows slaughtered after reacting to the tuberculin test, and 
found them non-sterile. 

1 CentralU.f. Bakt., 1895, Abt. II. i. p. 793. 
2 Bulletin No. 158, Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station. 

17 C 



1 8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Ward, 1 in a more recent publication, gives an account of 
further experiments. The udders of 19 milch cows from five 
different dairies were examined. All the cows were tuber- 
culous, but in 110 case was the udder tuberculous or abnormal 
in appearance. He found that the lactiferous ducts of the 

19 udders examined harboured bacteria throughout their 
whole extent. A number of different kinds of bacteria were 
isolated, the majority being micrococci. Ward also carefully 
studied the anatomy of the udder, and concluded that no 
obstruction capable of excluding bacteria from the milk-cistern 
exists, except perhaps the sphincter muscle at the lower end 
of the teat. He further concluded that there was no obstacle 
to prevent bacteria finding their way through the fine ramifica- 
tions of the lactiferous ducts to regions remote from the teat. 

Uhlrnann 2 showed the presence of numerous bacteria in 
sections of the hardened teats of cows, goats, and sheep. 

Henderson 8 examined seven normal udders and found that 
76 per cent of the cultures made exhibited growths of bacteria. 
Staphylococci, streptococci and pseudo- diphtheria bacilli were 
isolated. All were non-pathogenic. It is interesting to note 
that two of the normal udders were taken from young heifers 
and weve unexpanded, and all the cultures made from the milk 
cistern, ducts, and parenchyma, remained sterile. 

That milk as delivered from the teats even when obtained 
with aseptic precautions, and after rejection of the fore milk, 
contains bacteria, has been demonstrated by numerous in- 
vestigators. The fore milk contains most of the bacteria, 
but the middle milk and strippings are also bacterially con- 
taminated. For example, von Freudenreich 4 had 28 cows 
milked, with careful precautions to avoid outside contamination, 
into sterile flasks. The mean bacterial content for each cow was 
230 per c.c., the number of bacteria varying from 65 to 680. 

Lux 5 examined 260 specimens of cows' milk and 9 5 from 
goats, the samples being collected direct from individual cows 
but without special antiseptic precautions. He found, on an 
average, 1395 bacteria per c.c. 

1 Bulletin No. 178, Cornell University Agric. Experiment Station, 1900. 

2 Inaugural Dissertation, 1903. 

3 Journ. Hoy. San. Inst., 1904, xxv. p. 563. 

4 Centralbl.f. Bakt., 1902, Abt. II. viii. p. 674. 

5 Centralbl.f. BaJct., 1903, Abt. II. xi. p. 273. 



ii THE SOURCES OF BACTERIA IN MILK 19 

Bergey * examined a number of samples of milk collected 
separately from each of the four quarters of the udder. In 
these samples the number of bacteria ranged from (32 per 
cent of the samples) to 93,100 per c.c. Like Henderson he 
found the prevailing bacteria to be staphylococci, streptococci, 
and pseudo-diphtheria bacilli. Only about 10 per cent of 
the samples contained over 5000 bacteria per c.c. 

In regard to the sources of these bacteria, their primary 
origin is certainly from outside the teat. It seems to have 
been established that after milking a column of milk remains 
in the teat canal. In this milk column any bacteria introduced 
through the teat orifice will find a suitable nidus for growth. 
The bacteria extend up, infect the milk cistern, and ultimately 
the ramifications of the milk tubes through the udder. 

There is obviously, however, a considerable selective action 
exerted, since the organisms found are almost invariably 
staphylococci, streptococci, and other forms of micrococci. The 
.evidence of this selective action was clearly shown in certain 
experiments undertaken by the writer, in which the interior of 
the teats of goats were inoculated with streptococci of human 
and bovine origin. As a rule the infecting organisms died out 
after a period of time, to be measured by weeks, although in 
one case the infecting streptococcus persisted for the whole 
duration of the experiment, a period of over seven months. The 
streptococci of human origin, in general, died out more rapidly. 

2. Introduced during the Milking Operation. The bacteria 
introduced during milking are derived from three sources, (a) 
the coat, udder and teats of the cows ; (5) dust from the 
milking shed and the clothes of the milker, and (c) derived 
from the hands of the milker. 

(a) No person possessed of any bacteriological knowledge, 
who is acquainted with cows as usually kept, will need con- 
vincing that heavy bacterial pollution must result from this 
source. It is very common, indeed in some districts quite the 
usual thing, to find the hind-quarters of the cow caked and 
plastered with partially dried manure. This is, of course, 
particularly the case in wet weather. The udder and teats 
of the cows do not show such gross manurial contamination, 
but are frequently dirty and show evidence of dried manure. 

1 Bulletin No. 125, Depart, of Agric. Pennsylvania, 1904. 



20 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



The udder and teats have only to be washed in clean water, 
and the water looked at, to demonstrate their filthy condition. 
Such manurial matter is, of course, loaded with bacteria. As 
an illustration of the enormous number of bacteria in manure, 
the following figures obtained by Orr 1 may be quoted : 

Sample. 

No. 



Fresli manure which 
had only lain in the 
cowshed for one or two 1 
hours. 

Old manure, cut off from 
the hardened faeces stick- 
ing to the udder and side 
of legs of the cows. 



Number of Organisms per gramme. 
Agar, 37 C. 48 hours. 

I. 725,000. 

II. 3,500,000. 

III. 8,430,000. 

IV. 1,258,000. 
V. 66,368,000. 

VI. 185,000,000. 

VII. 13,050,200,000. 

VIII. 8,649,300,000. 



It is, of course, chiefly the old dried manure which gets 
into the milk. 

The kinds of organisms present are very numerous. That 
bacteria of the streptococcus and coli classes are abundant, is 
shown by the following figures obtained by the writer ~ for 
quite fresh excreta: 

Approximate Number per gramme of Excreta. 



Source. 



Cow No. 1 ; 0-1 to 1 million 

2 j 10,000 to 100,000 

3 : 1 to 10 millions 

41 1 to 10 millions 



Streptococci. 



10,000 to 100,000 

O'l to 1 million 

over 10 millions 

'O'l to 1 million 



B. cntcriditis 
sporogenes spores. 



100 to 1000 
10 to 100 
10 to 100 

100 to 1000 



During milking an appreciable portion of manure drops 
into the milking -pail. This contamination is greater in 
winter than in summer when the cows are generally out of 
the sheds for most of the day and night, and are consequently 
cleaner. Some experiments of Orr (loc. cit.} illustrate this. 
A number of agar-plates were held under the udder during 
the process of milking for two minutes each, and after exposure 
were incubated (4 days at 20 C.). From the respective areas 
of the plates and the ordinary milk-pail, it would be possible 
to calculate the number of organisms falling into the milk- 

1 Report on Milk Contamination, 1908, pp. 19-20. 
2 Bacteriological Examination of Water Supplies, 1906, p. 35. 



THE SOURCES OF BACTERIA IN MILK 21 



pail. All the experiments were carried out in the cowsheds. 
The following results were obtained : 











Average 


Series. 


Housing of the Cows. 


Condition of the Udders and 
Cows as regards cleaning. 


Number 
of 
Experi- 
ments. 


Number of 
Colonies 
per agar- 
plate with 
2 minutes' 










exposure. 


I. 


Summer : All cows out 


Untouched .... 


7 


440 


II. 


)> 


Udders and flanks 










brushed and washed 


3 


170 


III. 


Winter : Cows indoors 


Untouched .... 


3 


4752 


IV. 





Udders and flanks 










brushed, not washed 


3 


1752 


V. 


J ?? 


Udders and flanks 










brushed, washed, but 










left moist .... 


6 


230 


VI. 


55 J5 


Udders and flanks 










brushed, washed, and 










dried 


3 


444 



The influence of cleaning the udders is also shown by the 
diminished number of bacteria in the milk. An average of 
thirteen experiments at the Storrs Station l showed the 
following results : 

Bacteria in milk from unwiped udders = 7058 per c.c. 
wiped =716 



Decrease due to wiping =6342 

(&) Numerous investigators have shown the presence of 
bacteria in large numbers in the air of cowsheds. The dusty 
floors, the usual presence of hay and other feeding -stuffs, 
combined with the frequent movement, all renders bacterial 
pollution of the air constant. Orr, for example, exposed plates 
containing agar in cowsheds for 5 minutes during milking, 
with the following results, the numbers being calculated as 
falling on the surface of a twelve-inch pail. At the end of 
96 hours at 20 C., the plates were counted and the numbers 
calculated. The following results were obtained in the five 
experiments: A=3456 and 3600; B = 4500; = 3375 
and 4185; D = 1260; E=206S and 2700. 

1 Bulletin No. 42, Storrs Experiment Station. 



22 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The churn which receives the milk is frequently placed 
in a dusty place, and is very often uncovered. 

The clothes of the milker are usually highly dust-laden, 
and as the wearing of a clean overall is quite exceptional, 
many bacteria are added to the rnilk from this source. 

(c) The hands of the milker add their quota of bacteria 
to the milk, for even when washed to start with, they soon 
become filthy from the dirt upon the cows. Most of this dirt, 
with included bacteria, is washed into the milk. The influence 
of the milker in adding bacteria to milk is clearly illustrated 
by the following experiment recorded by Stocking. 1 The 
average of 19 tests with two milkers who had had no 
training in dairy sanitation, and one milker who was a 
graduate of the Connecticut Agricultural College, showed 
17,105 bacteria per c.c. for the untrained men, and 2455 for 
the trained man. The only difference between the men was 
the knowledge of what constituted contamination gained by 
the college graduate, who was a student of bacteriology. 

3. Bacteria introduced from Milk Vessels. When improperly 
cleaned, these are a source of great bacterial contamination to 
the milk. Orr quotes Harrison as carrying out the following 
series of experiments. He rinsed out the cans with 100 c.c. 
sterile water, and then estimated the number of organisms 
per c.c. of this water. 

Series A. Ten samples were examined from cans improperly cleaned, 

and gave from 215,000 to 806,320 organisms per c.c. 
B. Ten samples, from cans cleaned by washing with tepid water 

and scalding, gave from 13,080 to 93,400 per c.c. 
G. Five samples, from cans cleaned by washing with tepid water 

and then steaming for 5 minutes, gave from 355 to 1792 

organisms per c.c. 

Even if cans are properly scalded, it is a not uncommon 
practice to wash them out afterwards with cold water. If 
the water used for this purpose is not from a pure source 
this may be a further source of bacterial contamination. 

4. From Artificial or Special Milk Apparatus. The com- 
monest apparatus used, not strictly appertaining to milking, 
is a milk - strainer. It is an almost universal practice of 
the cow-keeper to strain the milk, usually immediately after 

1 Bulletin No. 42) Storrs Experiment Station. 



THE SOURCES OF BACTERIA IN MILK 



milking. If not kept absolutely clean they may actually 
add bacteria to the milk (see Chapter XVI.). 

Milk-coolers are sometimes a source of bacteria in milk. 
They may be placed in dusty places, so that the milk passing 
over them, exposing as it does a large surface to the air, takes 
up a good many bacteria. Also they may not be kept efficiently 
clean, traces of milk being left, in which bacteria multiply 
enormously and are subsequently added to the milk. A third 
but much less common way by which coolers may contaminate 
the milk is by being leaky, the water being added in small 
quantity to the milk. 

The following experiments by Orr (loc. cit.) illustrate that 
milk-coolers may act as contaminators of the milk. The 
mixed milk in each case was sampled before and after passing 
over the cooler, with the following results : 











Kelative Number of 


Experiment. 


Condition 
of Milk. 


Agar, 37 C. 
for 48 hours. 


Gelatine, 20C. 
for 96 hours. 
















Liqueflers. 


Non-liquefiers. 




(Not cooled 


36,000 


43,000 


1 


8-5 


A 


\Cooled 


53,000 


78,000 


1 


7 


B' 


I Not cooled 


12,000 


14,600 





12 




\Cooled 


31,000 


129,000 


1 


5-6 




/Not cooled 


20,000 


25,500 


1 


17 




\Cooled 


32,500 


49,000 


1 


9 




(Not cooled 


37,750 


76,000 


? 


? 




\Cooled 


77,000 


162,000 


? 


1 



Orr explains the higher number of organisms at 20 C. 
compared with at 3*7 C. as due to the bulk of the added 
organisms being derived from the air. 

In the same way milk-separators usually add bacteria to 
the milk passing through them. If the separator is not 
perfectly clean, the increase may be due to added bacteria, 
but in ordinary cases the increase is more apparent than real. 

If milk is separated, and the cream and separated milk 
remixed, it will usually be found that the germ-content of 
the reconstructed milk is higher than before separation. 

Severin * carried out numerous experiments and always 

1 Centralbl.f. Bald., 1905, Abt. II. xiv. p. 605. 



24 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

found an increase. In one experiment the apparent increase 
was about 70 per cent. From his experiments he concluded 
that bacteria from the air or other source was not responsible, 
and advanced the view that the increase was due to the breaking 
down of the groups and clumps of bacteria which occur in 
milk. Such breaking down would have the effect of con- 
siderably increasing the number of colonies and so the apparent 
germ-content. 

Heinemann, Luckhardt, and Hicks 1 also experimented in 
this direction, and found a considerable increase in the number 
of bacteria after separation. As an average of 48 examinations 
of 3 different samples of milk they found the milk before 
separating to have a germ-content of 738, the separator milk 
2130, the cream 132, and the reconstructed milk 1987 bac- 
teria. They concluded that since the conditions under which 
the separation took place w T ere above reproach, as far as clean- 
liness and handling were concerned, Severin's view was the 
correct one, and the increase is due to the disassociation of 
the aggregates of bacteria. 

Artificial milkers are discussed in Chapter XVI. As there 
explained they are more likely to be a source of bacteria from 
faulty cleaning than serve to diminish the germ-content of the 
milk by removing sources of pollution. 

5. Contamination in Transit. It is an extremely diffi- 
cult thing to measure the amount of bacterial contamination 
of milk which takes place in its transit from cowshed to milk 
purveyor or consumer. The increase in the number of bac- 
teria added from outside sources is obscured by the increase 
due to the multiplication of the bacteria already in the milk. 
It is not possible to give the extent of the contamination in 
definite terms of bacteria added. In general, it may be said 
that all the faulty conditions described in Chapter XV. 
are sources of bacterial contamination of the milk, but the 
extent of such bacterial additions must vary with the nature 
of the condition and the opportunities offered for pollution. 
The addition in transit of bacteria from outside is probably 
trivial compared with the bacterial additions at the cowshed 
and in the consumer's house. 

6. Bacteria added on the Purveyor's or Consumer's Premises. 

1 Journ. of Infect. Diseases, 1910, vol. vii. p. 47. 



ii THE SOURCES OF BACTERIA IN MILK 25 

The masking effect caused by multiplication of the bacteria 
already present makes calculations as to the extent to which 
organisms are added on these premises difficult. Orr (loc. cit.) 
has attempted with some success to measure the bacteria added 
to milk from outside sources while the milk is in the hands of the 
retailer and the consumer. Samples of milk were collected into 
sterile bottles from milk in the ordinary milk-containers in the 
dairies selected, and then kept for a variable number of hours 
on the counter in locked wire cages by the side of the con- 
tainers. During the time of exposure, the milk from which the 
sample had been taken was sold and dealt with by the retailer 
in the usual way, covered or uncovered. After some time 
samples were collected from the containers, and these and the 
control samples were at once transmitted (in ice boxes) for 
examination. The control samples had been kept at the same 
temperature as the milk in the container but not exposed to 
contamination, so that the added organisms could be estimated 
by comparing the results of the two samples. Eleven such 
experiments were carried out with the results shown in the 
following table : 



No. 


Dairy Con- 
trol, in Shop 
same time 
as Dairy 


Dairy Milk 

after remain- 
ing for Sale 


Covered or not. 


Temperature 
of 


Hours 
in 


Percent- 
age in- 
crease (+) 
or de- 




Milk. 
Bacteria 


Bacteria 


Air and Milk. 

i 


Shop. 


crease (-) 
over 




per c.c. 


per c.c. 








Control. 


1 


130,000 


170,000 


No 


15'5 8-0 


Bi 


+ 30-7 


2 


4,120,000 


4,340,000 


1 8 18 


16 


+ 5'3 


3 


178,000 


133,000 


; , 


11 18 


1* 


- 25-2 


4 


96,000 


84,000 


Yes (nickelled cover) i 19 8 


n 


- 12-5 


5 


175,000 


168,000 


Yes 


go yo 


9 


4-0 


6 


147,000 


109,000 


> ? 


9 9 


6f 


- 25-8 


7 


41,000 


51,000 


No I 5 5 


17* 


+ 24-4 


8 


125,000 


259,000 


6 5 


W* 


+ 107-2 


9 


1,220,000 


2,360,000 


12-5 12 


n 


+ 93-4 


10 


36,600 


64,000 


I 10-5 12 


2 


+ 75-5 


11 


291,000 


310,000 


Yes (pasteboard) 


11 7 


3 


+ 6-5 


Total 


6,559,600 


8,048,000 











Average increase due to contamination = 22 7 per cent. 
Average time in premises = 7 7 hours. 

This table shows that the average increase is 22'7 per cent, 
and Orr counts this as the percentage increase due to con- 



26 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . n 

tainination in the retailer's premises. As Orr, however, is 
careful to point out, the number of experiments is small and 
the results are chiefly of value for comparative purposes. 

In a similar way Orr adopted the plan of taking control 
samples to determine the actual contamination in the con- 
sumer's house, the controls being kept at the same temperature 
and for the same time as the consumer's own milk. The 
samples were from all classes of houses, " from the small 
through-house in slum districts to the self-contained house." 
Twenty-six such control experiments were carried out. In 19 
cases the samples from the consumer's own milk showed an 
increase over the controls varying from I'l to 170'9 per cent. 
In 7 cases there was a decrease varying from 1*4 to 45*6 per 
cent. The average time in the house was 8 hours. The 
average increase was 2 3 '5 per cent, which Orr takes as the 
contamination in the consumer's house. 

In these particular experiments the cleanliness of the 
house did not apparently materially affect the bacterial content 
of the samples. It should, however, be pointed out that flies 
were not prevalent to any marked extent during the time 
these experiments were made. 

The important part played by ilies in transmitting specific 
infection is being increasingly recognised. By feeding upon 
excreta and decomposing matters and then upon milk, sugar, 
and other foods flies probably frequently act as the actual 
vehicle of transmission of the specific disease - producing 
bacteria. The typhoid bacillus has been isolated from flies. 



CHAPTEE III 

THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 

IN the preceding chapter the very numerous sources whereby 
bacteria may be introduced into milk have been considered 
and discussed. The present chapter gives some account of the 
chief groups of bacteria likely to be present. 

In the first place, it must be realised that it is scarcely 
justifiable to speak of " milk bacteria " in the same way as we 
speak of manure bacteria, sewage bacteria, etc., thus implying 
that there are certain bacteria or groups of bacteria which are 
characteristic of these substances and universally present. 
The sources of pollution of milk are so many and varied that 
the bacterial content is very complex, while it is further com- 
plicated by the fact that milk is a suitable nutritive medium 
for most organisms. On the other hand, certain groups of 
bacteria are especially prevalent in milk, and some measure of 
selective action is undoubtedly exhibited. Two lines of de- 
scription may be adopted. On one plan, all the different 
organisms which have been found in milk may be classified 
and described as milk bacteria. With present knowledge such 
a catalogue of bacteria is of practically no value from the 
public health standpoint. In the first place, many of the 
descriptions of these bacteria are so scanty as to be practically 
valueless, while probably the same bacillus is described over 
and over again under fresh names. Again, such a catalogue of 
organisms must be very incomplete, the sources of bacteria in 
milk being so numerous. Even if a fairly complete and 
accurate register of all the bacteria likely to be found in milk 
samples was compiled it would not be of much practical service 
for public health work, since for this what is required is not 
a knowledge of all the bacteria which may be present in milk, 

27 



28 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

but only the harmful or potentially harmful, and those whose 
presence may be taken as an index of general or special 
pollution. 

The butter-maker and the pure scientist are in a different 
position, and have much to gain from a full knowledge of all 
the kinds of bacteria met with in milk. 

It will be sufficient for public health purposes to describe 
the chief groups of bacteria met with in milk, and to discuss 
the significance of their presence and the sources of entry. 

The following groups are considered : 

Group 1. Streptococci and staphylococci. 

2. Bacillus coli and allied organisms. 

3. The lactic acid bacilli. 

4. Spore-bearing bacteria in milk. 

5. Acid fast bacilli. 

The pathogenic bacilli, such as B. tuberculosis, are described 
in subsequent chapters. 

It may also be mentioned that a number of interesting 
chromogenic bacilli are known to occur in milk. Of these 
may be mentioned B. prodigiosus, associated with red milk ; 
B, cyanogenus, the cause of blue milk ; B. synxantlms, the cause 
of yellow milk. 

Special organisms concerned with the production of bitter 
milk, soapy milk, etc., have been isolated. 

Although these bacilli are of considerable interest, they are 
of little or no importance in relation to public health, and are 
therefore not discussed in detail. 

GROUP 1. STREPTOCOCCI AND STAPHYLOCOCCI IN MILK 

Streptococci. Streptococci are undoubtedly very prevalent 
in ordinary samples of market milk. They are not only very 
numerous in milk as vended, but are often abundant in 
samples of mixed milk collected immediately after milking at 
the farm, and examined before any multiplication can have 
taken place. The writer has found streptococci present in 
every sample of mixed milk (although many were collected 
at the farm) which he has examined, when 1 c.c. was sampled, 
and in over 80 per cent when O'l c.c. was examined. Orr 



Ill 



THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 



29 



gives the following instructive table in which the percentages 
of cowshed, retailers', and consumers' samples, giving positive 
results in the various dilutions, are shown : 





Cowshed 
Samples. 


Retailers' 
Samples. 


Consumers' 
Samples. 


1 c.c. negative . 






... 


1 positive . 








o-i 


17-4 


9-2 


2-9 


0-01 


34-7 


26-1 


24-6 


o-ooi 


31-8 


36-9 


23-2 


o-oooi 


14-5 


24-6 


23-2 


o-ooooi 


1-4 


3-0 


26-0 


o-oooooi 









The percentages showing a positive result are irregular, but 
in the highest dilution increase from left to right in the table, 
being greatest in the consumers' samples column. 

Not only are streptococci found in mixed milk, but they 
are present in milk collected from individual cows, and drawn 
with great care direct from the teats into sterile bottles, and 
this even after the fore-milk has been entirely rejected. Out 
of 88 apparently healthy cows examined by the writer, in 
which the middle milk (of all four quarters) was examined, 
in 46, or 52 per cent, streptococci were found when 1 c.c. 
of the milk was examined. In some cases the streptococci 
were scantily present but in others very numerous, agar-plates 
brushed with O'l c.c. of milk showing thousands of strepto- 
coccus colonies. 

The sources whereby streptococci are added to milk are 
individually no doubt varied, but are mainly four in number. 

(a) The teat passages and milk cisterns of healthy cows. 
The streptococci gain entrance by direct infection through the 
teat mouth, and are transmitted by and multiply in the milk 
left in the teat canal. The milk cistern becomes infected, 
and the streptococci establish themselves, 

(5) Manurial contamination. Streptococci are very numer- 
ous in cow manure, varying from 100,000 to 10 millions or 
more per gramme. In view of the gross manurial pollution of 
milk this must be regarded as their most abundant source. 



30 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

(c) Stale milk from dirty cans. Streptococci multiply 
rapidly in milk, and they are often very abundant in the 
traces of milk left in improperly cleaned milk cans. 

(d) Cows suffering from mastitis. The relationship of 
mastitis to streptococci is discussed in Chapter VI. It is 
sufficient to remark here that in the secretions of cows suffer- 
ing from mastitis due to streptococci these organisms are present 
in extremely large numbers. In some instances plates brushed 
with a single loopful of the fluid will show as many as a 
thousand streptococcus colonies. 

The significance of streptococci in milk has been much 
debated, and opinion on the subject has passed through two 
distinct phases. The earlier investigators who found strepto- 
cocci in milk for the most part inclined to the view that their 
presence was, if not due to definite pathological lesions of the 
cow, at least highly unsatisfactory, and fraught with potential 
harm to the consumers of such streptococcus infected milk, 
particularly if the consumers were young. 

Hoist, for example, isolated streptococci from milk supplied 
by cows suffering from mastitis, and considered them to be the 
cause of gastro-intestinal catarrh. Beck also believed that the 
streptococci in milk were closely related to the streptococci 
found by Escherich in cases of infantile diarrhoea, while Bergey 
concluded that these organisms were probably riot infrequently 
the cause of serious gastro-intestinal disorders in infants. 

As already mentioned, later investigations have shown that 
streptococci are extremely numerous in milk, are practically 
present in all samples of mixed milk, and indeed are fre- 
quently present in the milk of perfectly healthy cows. Also 
Kruse, in 1903, and Rolling, in 1904, both working in Bonn, 
advanced the view that the lactic acid bacilli of the B. acidi 
lactici type were not bacilli, but streptococci. Heinemann, in 
1905, independently came to the same conclusion. 

These facts and views have caused a modification of the 
opinion that streptococci in milk are of necessity prejudicial, 
and the view as to their significance now most commonly held 
may be said to be one of tolerance qualified by suspicion. 
Indeed, we can go further and postulate that if any significance 
is to be attached to the presence of streptococci in milk it 
must either be because 



THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 31 

(&) Their presence is an indication, and their numerical 
presence an estimate, of undesirable pollution that 
is, they act as indicators of pollution, and quite 
apart from any potential harmfulness of their 
own ; or 

(b) They are so numerous that their presence can only 

be explained as derived from a pathological lesion 
of the cow ; or 

(c) Certain definite varieties are present which are known 

to be associated with pathological lesions, and to 
play a disease-producing role in man. 

The possible value of streptococci for these purposes may 
be briefly considered. 

As indicators of manurial pollution they have this in 
their favour, that, as mentioned above, they are abundant in 
the materials whose presence we wish to quantitatively measure. 
The fact that they are found in milk drawn direct from the 
teats is fatal to their use for this purpose, since to judge the 
cleanliness of the methods used in milk collection, etc., by a 
test which is in part independent of such conditions, cannot be 
considered a satisfactory procedure. 

Whether the presence of enormous numbers of streptococci 
in fresh milk can be utilised as a reliable indication that the 
milk is in part derived from animals suffering from local patho- 
logical lesions of the udder or teats is at present undecided. 
Certain is it that in cow mastitis, some cases of teat ulceration, 
etc., the lesions show streptococci present in enormous numbers. 
In one instance the writer found that when the cows of a 
cow-keeper whose fresh milk contained enormous numbers of 
streptococci were examined severe teat ulceration, associated 
with abundant streptococci, was found upon several of the cows. 

While streptococci as a class cannot be at once condemned, 
it is of the utmost importance, in view of the fact that 
streptococci are amongst the most harmful of bacteria known 
to man, to study the different varieties present in milk, and 
to endeavour to separate the pathological and harmful types 
from the saprophytic and harmless. 

Unfortunately the differentiation of streptococci is by no 
means satisfactory, nor is the basis of classification uniform 
for different workers. Some investigators rely solely upon 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP, 



the characters most) used in earlier bacteriological investiga- 
tions, such as morphology, pigment-production, characters of 
the gelatine plate colonies, growth in broth, milk, potato, etc. 
Other workers place in addition to, or in substitution for, these 
tests, great reliance upon pathogenicity, agglutination tests, or 
the haemolytic tests introduced by Schottmuller. A further 
group of workers base their differentiating characters in large 
part upon the ability of streptococci to produce acid in certain 
sugars or alcohols. 

It cannot be said that any one series of tests are satisfactory 
or sufficient, but the writer and others have found from 
extensive experience with milk streptococci that the sugar- 
alcohol tests, together with morphology, growth in broth and 
milk, and pathogenicity, are of most utility. 

Houston 1 studied the biological characters of 172 strep- 
tococci isolated from various samples of milk. Using the 
sugar -alcohol tests he found that they differentiated the 
streptococci into a very large number of groups. He could 
by these tests, and apart from morphology and growth in broth r 
divide them into no less than 38 different groups, of which 
only one group contained more than 12 per cent of the isolated 
organisms. Houston found that the streptococci of milk differ 
somewhat from the streptococci of cow-dung and human faeces. 
This is brought out by the following table, to which is added 
the results of 7 1 streptococci isolated by the writer ' 2 from 
milk drawn direct from the udder and teats of healthy cows : 





Cow-dung 
(Houston). 


Human 
Faeces 
(Houston). 


Milk 

(Houston). 


Individual 
Healthy 
Cows 
(Savage). 




Per cent + 


Per cent + 


Per cent + 


Per cent + 


Salicin test . 


93 


92-67 


60 


83 


Saccharose test 


89 


86-34 


90 


94 


Lactose test . 


85 


76-34 


97 


100 


Litmus milk test . 


73 


61-67 


70 


80 


Neutral red broth test . 


All negative 


39-34 


20 




Raffinose test . . 74 


32 


19 


59 


Mannite test . . All negative 


24-34 


so 1 


31 


Inulin test . 


13 


4-67 


21 


27 


1 Coniferin test . . 1 






44 






1 





1 Report to London County Council, 1905. 
2 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1906-7, p. 205. 



THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 33 

This table shows that the results obtained with milk 
samples from individual cows approximate more closely to 
those obtained with mixed milk samples than to the cow- 
dung or human faeces results. The chief differences are in 
regard to the fermentation with salicin and rafrinose. 

The pathogenicity test for streptococci isolated from milk 
is probably a test of considerable value if carried out immedi- 
ately after isolation. The writer tested the pathogenicity of 
25 streptococci isolated from the milk cistern and teats of 
healthy cows. In every case the results were negative. 
Streptococci isolated from mixed milk also proved negative. 
On the other hand, streptococci isolated from milk supposed 
to be causing sore -throat or other human disease have on 
several occasions been found to be pathogenic to mice. 

Heinemann * investigated the virulence upon rabbits of 
a number of streptococci obtained from milk. The initial 
results were usually only slight local reaction at the seat of 
inoculation, but by passing the streptococci through a series 
of rabbits a high degree of virulence was acquired. After five 
or more passages, subcutaneous injections became fatal in doses 
of 2 c.c. of 24-hour-old broth cultures. The virulence approxi- 
mates to, if not equals for this animal, that of typical Strepto- 
coccus pyogenes from human affections. Heinemann remarks : 
" The lesions produced by Streptococcus lacticus in rabbits are 
of the same kind and extent as those produced by Streptococcus 
pyogenes from pathological conditions in human beings." 

Staphylococci. This group of organisms is abundantly re- 
presented in milk. They are particularly abundant, indeed, 
in the writer's experience, nearly universally present, in milk 
samples drawn direct from individual cows and without chance 
of outside contamination. A number of different varieties 
may be recognised by appropriate tests. Our present knowledge 
is sufficient to enable us to say that, in general, their presence 
is without pathological significance. 

GROUP 2. BACILLUS COLI AND ALLIED ORGANISMS 

In this group are included a number of lactose fermenting 
organisms of which Bacillus coli communis is the type, but which 

1 Journ. of Infect. Diseases, iv. p. 87, 1907. 

D 



34 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

also contains bacilli differing in more or less important 
characters from this particular organism. 

From the point of view of the application of our knowledge 
of the bacteriology of milk to practical purposes, B. coli and 
allied forms are of significance only as far as they are them- 
selves organisms of definite pathogenicity, or in so far as they 
are indicators of undesirable pollution of the milk. 

The significance of this group in milk bacteriology and the 
inter- relationship of the different bacilli may be considered 
from two points of view : the practical and the strictly 
scientific. 

We may, on the one hand, define the group widely enough 
to embrace all the varieties which are either themselves 
harmful or indicators of outside pollution, or we may subdivide 
up the group, by introducing a large series of tests, into a large, 
almost an indefinite, number of varieties, and try to ascertain 
the exact distribution in nature of each variety, and measure its 
precise significance either as a potentially pathogenic bacillus 
or as an indicator of some definite kind or kinds of pollution. 
The latter plan is undoubtedly the more scientific and logical, but 
the knowledge of this group and the distribution of the different 
sub-groups is at present scarcely sufficient to make it a pro- 
cedure of immediate practical value. 

MacConkey has given great attention to the further 
differentiation of the lactose fermenting bacteria of intestinal 
origin. In his opinion, many of the classical tests for B. coli 
and allied organisms do not permit of adequate differentiation 
of the lactose fermenting bacilli. He proposes 1 to omit growth 
in litmus milk, on gelatine slope, the fermentation of glucose, 
character of the growth on gelatine, production of fluorescence 
in neutral red, etc., and to lay great stress upon certain fer- 
mentation tests. The tests he suggests should be used are 
the following : 

The presence or absence of motility, the fermentation of 
lactose, saccharose, dulcite, adonite, inosite, inulin, and possibly 
mannite, the production of indol, and Vosges and Proskauer's 
reaction. 

With these tests, he believes we shall be able to pick out 
those organisms which are most closely associated with faeces. 

1 Journ. of Hygiene, 1909, ix. p. 86. 



THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 35 

The comparative value of these tests, with an analysis of the 
results obtained with them by MacConkey and by Orr, is 
discussed in Chapter X. 

The chief value of the B. coli group in milk is that it, 
as a group, indicates the addition to milk of manurial or other 
undesirable pollution. The members of this group are, in 
the first place, extremely abundant in the excreta of both 
man and animals. They are absent, or almost absent, from 
the milk of individual cows, or from milk collected under 
conditions of great care and cleanliness. This fact has been 
demonstrated by a number of workers. 

For example, Harrison x examined the milk of 2 5 cows, 
the milk being collected direct into sterile vessels, and after 
the udders and flanks had been wiped with a damp cloth 
and the first milk rejected. From only two of the cows were 
gas-producing bacteria isolated. 

Von Freudenreich examined 15 samples of milk taken 
direct from the udder, and found no B. coli or other glucose 
fermenters in any of the samples. 

The writer 2 found glucose-fermenting organisms in 4 out 
of 52 samples of milk from the mixed four quarters of in- 
dividual cows. In one of these, the examination of the separate 
quarters a few days previously had shown the presence of B. 
coli in three out of the four quarters. In the collection of the 
samples strict aseptic precautions were not taken, so probably 
some of the glucose fermenters were from outside contamination. 

MacConkey 3 records that in samples drawn direct from 
the cow no gas-forming organisms were met with. 

The presence of lactose-fermenting organisms of coli type 
in fresh milk is also largely proportional to the amount of 
cleanliness exercised in milking. This is illustrated by the 
following table, 4 in which comparison is instituted between 
the general cleanliness classification at the cowshed (made 
before the bacteriological examination was started) and the 
number of bacteria, and number of B. coli and allied organisms. 
All the milk samples were collected at the farm and examined 
without delay. 

1 CentralU.f. Bald., 1905, Abt. II. xiv. 359. 
2 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1906-7, p. 205. 

3 Journ. of Hygiene, 1906, vi. 385. 
4 Savage, Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1909-10, p. 480. 



36 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



Classification 


Number of Bacteria per c.c. 


B. coll per c.c. : 
number containing 


cleanliness. 


Under 
3000. 


3000- 
6000. 


6000- 

12,000. 


12,000- 
24,000. 


Over 

24,000. 


Nil in 
5 c.c. 


0-1-1. 


1-10. 


Over 
10. 


A 


5 


3 


1 


3 


1 


4 


6 


2 


1 


B 


3 


3 


4 


3 


6 


2 


5 


6 


6 


C 








2 


7 


9 


1 


1 


8 


8 


Totals 


8 


6 


7 


13 


16 


7 


12 


16 


15 


1 


















Number of Bacteria : percentages. ? m f! e ^ 1 : 


Classification 


cleanliness. Undpr 3((0f ,_ 
3000. 6000. 


6000- 
12,000. 


12,000- 
24,000. 


Over 

24,000. 


Nil in 
5 c. c. 


0-1-1. 


1-10. 


Over 
10. 


A 38 23 8 


23 


8 


31 


46 


15 \ 8 


B 16 16 


21 


16 31 


10 


26 


32 ! 32 


C 


11 


39 


50 6 


6 


44 


44 


Totals 1 16 


12 


14 


26 


32 


14 


24 


32 


30 



Group A = Sheds clean and some practical measures of cleanliness in 
milking practised. 

,, B = Sheds more or less clean, but only very slight and in- 
adequate attempts at cleanliness. 

,, C = Obvious and marked lack of cleanliness both as regards 
sheds and cows, and the milking operations. 

The coli group may be legitimately used as an index of 
manurial pollution in milk. 

The organisms, which for this purpose may be included 
within the B. coli group, may be denned as those which ferment 
glucose and lactose, clot milk with acid production, grow as 
a white or translucent growth upon gelatine without lique- 
faction, and usually produce indol. Motility may or may not 
be exhibited. 

Such a group will include B. lacti* aeroyenes as well as 
B. coli communis. 

GROUP 3. THE ORDINARY LACTIC ACID BACILLI 



The production of lactic acid is the commonest bacterial 
change which occurs in milk, and is one of great practical 



THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 37 

importance. Pasteur, in 1857, was the first to describe a 
definite organism as the cause of the souring. Since that 
date our knowledge of lactic acid fermentation has steadily 
increased, and it is now recognised that the production of 
lactic acid from the sugars in milk is a property possessed 
by a considerable number of bacteria. Some of the more 
important organisms which are able to produce lactic acid 
from milk are B. acidi lactici (Hueppe), B. lactis acidi (Leich- 
mann), B. coli, B. lactis aerogenes, Streptococcus lacticus, B. 
lulgaricus. Some other less important bacteria have also this 
property, while there are some lactic acid producing yeasts. 
The whole subject has been made very complicated by much 
confusion of nomenclature and bacterial description. Lactic 
acid producing bacilli have been described as one organism 
which were really a mixture of bacilli, the same lactic 
bacillus has been described again and again by different 
observers as a new bacillus, and frequently under a fresh 
name, while recently it has been contended that what has 
hitherto been called a bacillus is in reality a streptococcus. 

It would seem, however, that ordinary lactic acid fermen- 
tation in milk is mainly, if not entirely, due to two groups 
of organisms : 

(a) B. lactis aerogenes and its allies. 

(b) The organisms which are either bacilli or streptococci, 
and accordingly called B. acidi lactici or Streptococcus lacticus. 

B. lactis aerogenes closely resembles B. coli in most of its 
characters, and has been included here under that group. 

Of the Bacterium acidi lactici type Conn, Ester, and 
Stocking * give a good description in their report on dairy 
bacteria, and the following is taken from their description : 

Bad. lactis acidi (type). 

A bacterium. Size, 0*7/z- 1'2/x x 0'5/x - 0'8/A. Sometimes so 
short as to be described as a streptococcus, and the elements in 
some cultures are very clearly cocci. No long chains. No 
motility, no spores. Gram stain is positive. 

Gelatine colonies. Small points, rather opaque, not charac- 
teristic. Almost wholly under the surface, and typical colonies 
never grow on the surface. In litmus gelatine they are rather 

1 "Classification of Dairy Bacteria," Report of the Storrs (Connecticut) 
Agricultural Experiment Station for 1906. 



38 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

dense, strongly acid, and frequently, though not always, surrounded 
by minute, irregular spines on the edge. The gelatine is not 
liquefied. 

Agar streak. No growth, or one that is scarcely visible. 

Lactose, glucose, and saccharose. Acid produced from all three, 
but no gas. 

Bouillon. Frequently no sign of growth, but commonly a slight 
sediment. 

Milk. Acid production and clot in from 6 hours to 2 days. 
The curd is smooth and hard, without gas bubbles, and never shows 
any digestion. 

Potato. Usually no growth, but sometimes a thin transparent 
film. 

Grows at 20 and 37 C., but better at 20 C. Facultative 
anaerobe, growing better without oxygen, and hence curdling milk 
at the bottom first. 

" The most characteristic features of this organism are the 
peculiar litmus gelatine colonies, the absence of surface growth, 
and the smooth, hard acid curd in milk." 

These authors describe several varieties differing in more 
or less important particulars from this type. The most common 
variant only differs in the extremely minute colonies on gela- 
tine with absence of the characteristic spines. 

The group of organisms described under this type are of 
immense importance in economic milk problems, but are in 
themselves of no pathological significance. 

According to Kruse, Heinemami, and others, this type of 
organism should be spoken of as streptococci. Heinemann, 1 after 
experimentally investigating the matter, concludes, " Bacillus 
acidi lactici is a myth. The ordinary bacteria producing lactic 
acid fermentation in milk are B. aerogems var. lacticus and 
Streptococcus lacticus!' " Streptococcus lacticus agrees in morpho- 
logical, cultural, and coagulative properties with pathogenic, 
faecal, and sewage streptococci." 

On the chemical side it may be mentioned that the lactic acid 
is not directly produced from lactose. The lactose in milk is first 
converted by the action of enzymes into glucose and galactose, and 
the lactic acid is produced from these simpler sugars. As is well 
known, four isomers of lactic acid exist. Three of them have an 
identical chemical formula, but differ in their action to polarised 
light, one, the r/-acid, rotating it to the right (dextrolactic acid), the 



1 Journ. of Infectious Diseases, 1906, p. 173. 



THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 39 

second rotating it to the left, /-acid (laevolactic acid), while the third 
is inactive or racemoid lactic acid, r-acid. The kinds of acid pro- 
duced in milk have been investigated by Gadamer and more recently 
by Heinemann. 1 The latter showed that milk naturally soured at 
room temperature contains chiefly d-acid. Milk soured at 37 C. 
contains chiefly r-acid, with /-acid in excess if allowed to stand 
several days. Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus lacticus produce 
the same kind of lactic acid, i.e. e-acid. B. lactis aerogenes, on the 
other hand, produces /-acid. The kind of lactic acid produced in 
naturally soured milk varies, therefore, according to the kind of 
lactic acid bacillus mainly present, according to the temperature at 
which the milk has been kept, and according to the length of time 
the fermentation has lasted. 

It is well known that in the souring of milk under ordinary 
circumstances a considerable number of other bodies in addition to 
lactic acid are produced. Amongst these may be mentioned acetic, 
butyric, and succinic acids, carbonic acid gas, hydrogen, and alcohoL 
Streptococcus lacticus produces almost pure lactic acid (c/-acid), while 
B. lactis aerogenes forms, in addition, other substances, volatile 
acids, ethyl alcohol, etc. 

The lactic acid bacilli (B. lactis acidi type) may be con- 
sidered from the economic, therapeutic, and public health points 
of view. From the economic standpoint they are of the 
utmost importance, since they are active partners in the pre- 
paration of butter and cheese, but as this is not germane to 
the present book, this aspect need not be considered. Equally 
the therapeutic aspect need not be discussed here, although, 
as is well known, Metchnikoff and his followers have laid great 
stress upon the value of soured milk as a therapeutic agency. 

Their public health significance is negative rather than 
positive, since they certainly are not harmful organisms to man. 
They claim some consideration however, since, in the first place, in 
enumerating the number of bacteria in milk if low temperature 
counts are used, they will be enumerated, and so affect the 
question of a bacterial standard for milk. In the second place, 
we require to know their relationship to the growth of patho- 
genic bacteria in milk. As far as our rather incomplete know- 
ledge takes us it would seem that they and their products are 
directly inimical to the growth of pathogenic bacteria in milk, 
so that in themselves they are beneficial. 

Also by producing gross changes in milk which is stale 

1 Journ. of Biological Chemistry, 1907, vol. ii. No. 6, p. 603. 



40 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

(clotting and souring) they render it unsaleable, and as such 
are a valuable check preventing the sale of very stale milk. 
But for the presence of this group of organisms it is quite 
possible that milk laden with other and possible pathogenic 
bacteria might be kept and sold even in a much staler condi- 
tion than it is at present. This aspect of the subject is also 
dealt with under preservatives in milk and in relation to 
pasteurisation. 

GROUP 4. THE SPORE-BEARING BACTERIA IN MILK 

Under this group of spore-bearing bacilli found in milk 
are included a number of different groups which are only 
associated together here as a matter of convenience. Some 
of them are strict anaerobes, others strict aerobes. 

Very little work appears to have been carried out upon 
the presence, varieties, and distribution of the anaerobic bacilli 
in milk. Barthel, 1 in Stockholm, investigated the obligate 
anaerobes in milk. He found that they were comparatively 
rare in ordinary milk samples when 15 and 20 c.c. were 
examined. They were much more numerous in summer than 
in winter. The organisms isolated were either B. butrificus 
(Bienstock) or a bacillus which Barthel considered to be iden- 
tical with the bacillus of Schattenfroh and Grassberger. B. 
butrificus was isolated by Bienstock from faeces. Both are 
spore-bearing varieties. 

From the public health point of view the presence and 
distribution of B. enteritidis sporogenes is of chief interest. 

B. enteritidis sporogenes, An anaerobic bacillus isolated by 
Klein in 1895. It was originally isolated by Klein from the 
evacuation of patients suffering from an epidemic of diarrhoea 
in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London. It has, however, now 
been established that it is widely distributed and had nothing 
to do with the outbreak. It is a natural inhabitant of excreta 
and present in considerable numbers. For example, Houston 
found the spores 1 to 10 million per gramme of human faeces. 
The writer has found the spores fairly abundant in animal 
excreta, that of the horse, cow, pig, and sheep being examined. 
In the cow, numbers varying from 10 to 1000 spores per 

1 Centralbl.f. Bakt., 1910, Abt. II. xxvi. p. 1. 



THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 



gramme of moist excreta were recorded. It is also commonly 
present in dust. 

Its essential characters, as described by Klein, 1 are given 
in the following table : 



B. butyricus. 


II. 

B. enteritidis sporogenes. 


III. 

B. cadaveris sporogencs. 


1. Cylindrical rods, on 


1. Same as in I. 


1. Cylindrical and thread- 


the average 2 '5 to 3 '5 




like; thinner and longer 


fj, long, 0-8 to 1'25 //. 




than I. and II. ; very 


broad ; stains well by 




motile ; stains by Gram's 


Gram's method ; some 




method. 


individuals motile. 






2. Spores oval ; stain after 


2. Same as in I. 


2. Spores oval, terminal, 


the several methods ; 




drumsticks ; stain after 


situated in the middle 




usual methods. 


of the rods more or less. 






3. Grows well on the sur- 
face of ordinary gelatine 


3. Softens rapidly the 
gelatine ; slowly 


3. Rapidly liquefying ; 
putrid odour ; numer- 


as a translucent mass of 


liquefying. 


ous spores formed. 


convoluted threads ; 






does not liquefy the 






gelatine. 






4. In stab in gelatine, 


4. Much gas; spherical 


4. Much gas ; rapidly 


forms spherical colonies 


colonies ; without 


liquefying ; putrid 


with numerous hori- 


filamentous projec- 


odour. 


zontal filamentous pro- 


tions ; slowly lique- 




jections; not liquefy ing; 


fying. 




forms much gas. 






5. On the surface of agar, 


5. Same as in I. ; few 


5. On the surface of agar 


grey, round, flat colon- 


c r e n a t i o n s ; no 


forms thready, branched 


ies ; margin thin and 


spores. 


colonies, with or with- 


much crenate ; no spores. 




out finely granular 






plate ; rapidly forming 






spores. 


6. In stab in agar, forms 


6. Little tendency for 


6. Much gas ; rapidly 


characteristic bundles 


f ormi ng lateral 


forming spores; conspic- 


of threads projecting 


branchings ; much 


uous masses of threads 


laterallyfi om thegrowth 
in the stab ; much gas ; 


gas ; no spores. 


growing out of stab. 


no spores. 






7. In milk, rapid separa- 


7. Same as in I. 


7. Milk is slowly decom- 


tion of acid whey and 




posed ; putrid odour ; 


flocculi of casein; smell 




much gas ; rapidly 


of butyric acid ; no 




forming spores. 


spores ; much gas. 






8. Grows well on serum ; 
very slow softening. 


8. Grows well ; slowly 
liquefying ; some 


8. Rapidly liquefying ; 
putrid odour ; rapidly 




spores formed. 


forming spores. 


9. Not pathogenic for 


9. Virulent for rodents. 


9. Not pathogenic for 


rodents. 




rodents. 



The virulence of this organism is subject to considerable 
variation. When fully virulent 1 c.c. of the whey from a 
1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1901-2, p. 404. 



42 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

milk culture 24 to 48 hours old will kill a guinea-pig by sub- 
cutaneous injection within about 24 hours. The changes in 
milk grown anaerobically are the diagnostic characters relied 
upon for its identification. They are most characteristic after 
two days' growth. Gas is abundantly formed, the cream being 
torn so that the surface of the medium is covered by stringy, 
pinkish -white masses of coagulated casein. Beneath is a 
colourless, clear, or slightly turbid whey, with some entangled 
casein. The whey is markedly acid, has a pronounced butyric 
acid odour, and contains numerous bacilli, but in the non- 
sporing stage. 

B. butyricus closely resembles B. enteritidis sporogcnes. It 
shows slight cultured differences, but its essential distinction 
is its non-pathogenicity to rodents. It is not infrequent in 
milk. 

There is no evidence that either of these organisms are 
harmful to man, but B. enteritidis sporogenes is of importance 
in that it is a valuable means of measuring the manurial 
pollution of milk, since the spores of this organism are 
prevalent in manure and in dust, while they are absent 
from milk collected under conditions of great cleanliness. 

Of the aiirobic bacilli included in this group the most 
commonly met with include B. siibtilis, B. mesentericus vulgatus, 
B. mycoides, B. lacticola. There are also a number of other 
less well-defined organisms which have been isolated, but the 
differentiation of the included organisms is not very satis- 
factory. 

B. siibtilis, and most of the others, are abundant in hay, 
straw, etc., and obtain access to milk directly or indirectly from 
such sources. Their presence in milk indicates outside con- 
tamination. 

They are non- pathogenic, but they decompose and pep- 
tonise milk. This whole group aerobic and anaerobic are 
very heat resistant, and constitute most of the bacilli which 
are left in imperfectly sterilised milk. 

Fliigge isolated a number of such spore -bearing bacilli, 
and to one group of peptonising bacilli he ascribed pathogenic 
effects. 



THE BACTERIA FOUND IN MILK 43 

GROUP 5. ACID-FAST BACILLI 

Within the last two decades the number of bacilli known 
to be resistant to decolorisation by acid after staining has 
greatly increased, and such acid - fast bacilli, as they are 
conveniently called, have been shown to be widely distributed 
in nature. They have been obtained from the human body 
(mouth, smegma, etc.), and outside the body from manure, 
milk, butter, various grasses, etc. 

Of no particular significance in themselves they owe their 
importance to the fact that they superficially resemble the 
tubercle bacillus in being acid-fast, in their morphology and 
less characteristically in their pathological effects upon rodents. 
Their possible presence has always to be kept in mind in con- 
nection with the diagnosis of tubercle bacilli in milk. 

From the point of view of milk and tuberculosis the 
varieties of greatest interest are the butter bacillus of liabino- 
witch and Petri, Moeller's timothy -grass bacilli, I. and II., 
Johne's bacillus, and the mist bacillus. The smegma bacilli 
are also important members of this group. Cowie showed 
that acid -fast bacilli are to be found around the external 
genitals, etc., of some of the lower animals. It is not clear if 
these bacilli are identical with the human smegma bacilli. 

The Butter Bacillus. This bacillus serves as a good illus- 
tration of the group. It was isolated independently by Eabino- 
witch and Petri from butter. Morphologically it is shorter 
and thicker than the tubercle bacillus., but superficially re- 
sembles it. Long unbranched thread-like forms are sometimes 
met with. Culturally it grows rapidly upon agar and glycer- 
ine agar, a well-marked thick crinkled growth being present 
after 3 to 4 days. It grows equally quickly in glycerine 
broth, a crinkled scum being present after 2 to 3 days' 
growth, the broth having an unpleasant odour. It will grow 
in or on these media at room temperatures. Injected intra- 
peritoneally, mixed with butter, into guinea-pigs, it produces 
lesions which closely resemble those produced by the tubercle 
bacillus, frequently causing the death of the animal. 

The other acid -fast bacilli are very similar. They all 
agree with the tubercle bacillus in their resistance to de- 
colorisation by acid after staining, while morphologically they 



44 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH. m 

are for the most part shorter and thicker. Injected into 
animals, most of them, like the butter bacillus, exert 
pathological effects with the production of nodules resembling 
tubercles. The characteristic which essentially differentiates 
them from the tubercle bacillus is their comparatively rapid 
growth on culture media. Their growth in days exceeds that 
of the tubercle bacillus in the same number of weeks. They 
will also grow at room temperatures. 

As a group, these bacilli have a somewhat lessened re- 
sistance to decolorisation by mineral acids as compared with 
the tubercle bacillus. According to Abbott and Gildersleeve 
they lose their colour almost instantly if treated by the 2 5 to 
30 per cent nitric acid solution used in the original Koch- 
Ehrlich process. 



CHAPTEE IV 

THE BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 

IN Chapter II. it has been demonstrated that bacteria are 
added to milk from very numerous sources, and in Chapter III. 
the chief kinds so added have been considered. In view of 
the fact that milk is rarely consumed directly after milking, 
but only after the lapse of a more or less considerable period, 
it is of great importance to consider the behaviour in milk of 
the bacteria which have been added to it. 

The subject will be discussed in the following sub- 
sections : 

A. The germicidal property of milk. 

B. The general behaviour of bacteria in milk under differ- 
ent conditions both as a whole and for individual groups. 

C. The behaviour of pathogenic bacteria in milk. 

D. The thermal death -points of pathogenic bacteria in 
milk. 

A. GERMICIDAL PROPERTY OF MILK 

It has been found when samples of freshly drawn milk 
are examined at very short intervals, that not only may no 
increase in the number of bacteria result for several hours, 
but an actual decrease may at first be met with. This has 
been ascribed to an inherent quality in the milk, and a germi- 
cidal property has been evoked to explain it. Fokker in 
1890 was the first to draw attention to this property of fresh 
milk, and since then it has been the subject of a large number 
of investigations. 

The following table, taken from Eosenau and McCoy's 

45 



46 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

valuable paper and report, 1 illustrates this action, and the 
influence of the temperature of incubation of the milk. 



Milk from a Healthy Cow. 
(Immediately after milking contained 500 bacteria per 





Bacteria per c.c. at different temperatures. 


Time after milking. 


Room temperature 
(20-29 C.). 


15 C. 


37' C. 


2 hours . 


1,300 






4 . 


700 


900 


11,300 


6 . 


400 


500 


38,000 


8 . 


7,800 


600 342,000 


10 . 


29,000 


1,200 50,000,000 


24 . 


340,000,000 


80,000 


Sour 


48 . 


Innumerable 


1,380,000 




72 . 


Sour 


89,000,000 




96 . 




Sour 


... 



The duration of the period of decrease is longest the 
colder the milk, and at 37 C. is very short. 

The decrease occurs not only with the bacteria usually 
found in milk, but also with fresh milk inoculated with pure 
cultures of pathogenic organisms. 

While there can be no doubt as to the fact of the 
decrease of bacteria in quite fresh milk, investigators are not 
all in agreement as to the explanation. 

According to one view the diminution of bacteria is 
due to a definite germicidal property possessed by the milk 
analogous to that possessed by fresh blood, although much less 
powerful. In favour of this view is the fact that the pro- 
perty is destroyed by heating the milk to 75-80 C., while it 
is weakened by heating to lower temperature, e.g. half-hour at 
56 C. Friedel, Kutscher, and Meinicke, and other investi- 
gators, have shown that the property is in some respects 
specific and varies with the organism. Fresh raw milk is, 
for example, bactericidal to the cholera vibrio, but not, accord- 
ing to these German investigators, to B. typliosus, R coli, and 

1 Bulletin No. 41, Public Health and Marine Hospital Service, U.S.A., 
1908, p. 449. 



IV 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 47 



the Gaertner and dysentery bacilli. Heinemann and Glenn 
have shown that some species occurring naturally in milk 
decrease considerably in numbers during the first 4 or 5 
hours, some decrease slightly, some hold their own or even 
increase. Copeland, in a single experiment, found that the 
addition of boric acid damaged the inhibitory power, no 
diminution of the bacteria in fresh milk resulting. 

Eosenau and McCoy have shown that the germicidal 
power of milk is independent of its cellular contents. They 
found that leucocyte-free milk is quite as active as the leuco- 
cyte-rich sediment obtained by centrifugalisation. 

On the other hand, numerous investigators have shown 
that at least part of the decrease is more apparent than real. 
Stocking, for example, concluded that " the decrease in the 
number of bacteria during the first few hours is not the result 
of any germicidal condition or property possessed by the milk, 
but simply of the natural dropping out of those species which 
do not find the milk a suitable medium in which to develop." 

Other investigators have found that the diminution in 
the number of bacteria is partially to be accounted for by 
agglutination of some of the bacteria. The bacteria become 
agglutinated into clumps, and since a small clump may grow 
as one colony the apparent number of bacteria is diminished. 

From a general consideration of the literature it would 
seem evident that the decrease is not due to any one cause 
entirely. Part would appear to be due to agglutination and 
other causes, but in addition there is evidently some action 
exerted of a specific nature, and which is rather restraining 
than definitely germicidal. 

B. THE GENERAL BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 
UNDER DIFFERENT CONDITIONS 

Although milk is an excellent nutrient medium for most 
bacteria it is not equally so for all, and it is easy to demon- 
strate that there is a struggle for existence between the 
different bacteria introduced, the survival of one type over 
another depending upon a number of factors, such as the 
initial dose, the kinds of other bacteria present, the time 
interval, and, in particular, the temperature of the milk. It 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



is only in a modified sense possible to speak of " milk bacteria," 
as if certain bacteria were typical and characteristic of milk, 
since milk is not kept for very long periods, and any selective 
action has rarely time to be pronounced. It will, - however, 
be found that certain types of bacteria are especially prevalent 
in, and indeed characteristic of, stale milk. 

The rapid increase in the number of bacteria in stored 
milk is well known. The multiplication has been shown to 
depend mainly upon three factors : 

(a) The temperature at which the milk is kept. 
(&) The time interval since milking, 
(c) The kinds of bacteria present. 

The influence of the last factor is more variable and more 
difficult to estimate than that of the first two causes. 

The following table from results obtained by Park 1 upon 
the development of bacteria in a pure and a contaminated 
sample of milk shows the great influence of both time and 
temperature. The initial content of sample A was 3000 and 
of B 30,000 bacteria per c.c. 



Temper- 


After 24 hours' incubation. 


After 48 hours' incubation. 


After 96 hours' 
incubation. 


ature 








heit. 


A. 


B. 


A. 


B. 


A. 


B. 


32 


2,400 


30,000 


2,100 


27,000 


1,850 


24,000 


39 


2,500 1 38,000 


3,600 


56,000 


218,000 


4,300,000 


42 


2,600 


43,000 


3,600 


210,000 


500,000 


5,700,000 


40 


3,100 


42,000 


12,000 


300,000 


1,480,000 


12,200,000 


50" 


11,600 


89,000 


540,000 


1,940,000 






55 


18,800 


187,000 


3,400,000 


38,000,000 






00 


180,000 


900,000 


28,000,000 


168,000,000 






68 


450,000 


4,000,000 


25,000,000,000 


25,000,000,000 






st; 


1,400,000,000 


14,000,000,000 










94' 


25,000.000.000 


25,000,000,000 











The same general facts are shown in another way in the 
following table," showing the development of bacteria in 
samples incubated at different temperatures. This table is 
introduced to show the influence of the third factor the 
kinds of bacteria present, since it will be seen that the in- 
crease was a very variable one, and only to be explained by 
the differing initial content and kinds of bacteria present. 

1 Journ. of Hygiene, 1901, vol. i. p. 398. 

2 W. G. Savage, Appendix , No. 4 Report of Medical Officer, Local Govern- 
ment Board, 1909-10, p. 481. 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 49 



Development of Bacteria in Incubated Milk Samples. 
(All samples collected at the cowsheds). 



Initial 
Number 
of 
Bacteria. 


Number of 
Bacteria after 
24 hours' in- 
cubation at 
15 C. 


Number of 
Bacteria after 
24 hours' in- 
cubation at 
21 C.. 


Increase over Initial 
Number at 


Relative 
Increase at 
21 C. over 
15' C. 


15 C. 


21 C. 


640 




1,440,000 


Fold. 


Fold. 
2250 


Fold. 


1,150 


16^500 


680,000 


14 


590 


41 


1,550 


6,000 


55,000 


4 


35 


9 


2,150 


18,000 


577,000 


8 


270 


32 


2,330 


100,000 


... 


43 






2,800 


65,000 


870,000 


23 


310 


13 


3,290 


37,000 




11 






3,670 


15,000 




4 






5,750 


4,400 


75,000 


Diminution 


"l3 


17 


6,400 


13,000 


440,000 


2 


70 


34 


7,530 


75,000 


1,382,000 


10 


180 


18 


8,260 


14,000 


202,000 


17 


24 


14 


10,300 




2,210,000 




214 




14,200 


125,000 


810,000 


9 


57 


6 


25,700 


... 


45,700,000 




1780 




31,000 


78,000 




2 : 5 


.. 




35,000 




3,800,000 




108 





In view of the practical importance of keeping milk cool, 
the effect on the bacterial content of storing milk at C. has 
been studied by a number of investigators. It is generally 
assumed that little or no bacterial alteration takes place at the 
freezing temperature of water, but this cannot be accepted as 
true without qualification. For fresh samples of milk kept 
for only 24 to 48 hours at C. it will generally be found 
that there has been no increase in the number of bacteria but 
a slight decrease. Park's table, given above, illustrates this 
decrease, which is no doubt due to the germicidal action of 
the milk and the suppression of certain types which are in an 
unsuitable temperamental environment. 

When, however, the milk samples are maintained at C. 
for many days and weeks, it will be found that a great 
increase in the number of bacteria has taken place. For 
example, Pennington, 1 working with both pure and ordinary 
market-milks, found great increase after long periods in 
samples kept at 29-32 F. For example, one sample, containing 
only 300 organisms per c.c. to start with, was found to contain 

1 Journal of Biol. Chem., 1908, vol. iv. p. 353. 



50 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

more than a hundred million organisms per c.c. after five to six 
weeks. She showed that there were present both acid-forming 
and protein-decomposing bacteria. The casein was digested 
until rather more than 50 per cent of it was destroyed and 
changed into soluble compounds (caseoses, arnino acids, etc.). 

Eavenel, Hastings, and Hammer l also investigated this 
subject. They found that in samples of milk kept at C. 
there was a slowly developed but marked increase in the 
bacterial content, resulting in an increase of acidity, an 
increase in the percentage of soluble nitrogen (so that it 
eventually amounted to over 7 per cent of the total nitrogen), 
and a decrease in the total nitrogen-content probably due 
to a liberation of free nitrogen. The kind of increase they 
met with is shown in the following table : 

Bacterial Content of Specimens kept at C. 



Age of Milk in days. 


Dairy Milk. 


Barn Milk. 





130,000 


3,500 


6 


72,500 


4,050 


15 


633,500 


52,900 


20 


3,230,000 


1,240,000 


36 


34,950,000 


4,800,000 


74 


91,500,000 


36,500,000 


106 


39,750,000 


192,500,000 


160 


32,650,000 


361,000,000 



The Barn milk was a very pure milk from the University Herd, and con- 
taining only about 3000 bacteria per c.c. The Dairy milk was an average dairy 
milk. The plating medium was lactose agar, and the plates were incubated at 
37 C. 

While these results are interesting, the broad practical 
conclusion remains, that if milk is kept at C. or even at 
10 C. (see Conn and Esten below) no material alteration of 
the germ-content takes place for at least several days. 

Of interest and practical importance greater than the total 
bacterial multiplication in milk, is the relative growth of the 
different varieties of bacteria under different conditions. In 
this connection, Conn and Esten 2 have published a valuable 
report upon " The effect of different temperatures in de- 

1 Journal of Infect. Diseases, 1910, vol. vii. p. 38. 
2 Sixteenth Annual Report, Storrs Agric. Experiment Station, 1904, p. 27. 



IV 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 51 



termining the species of bacteria which grow in milk." The 
milk used for the investigation was ordinary market milk, but 
quite fresh, being only one or two hours old. It usually con- 
tained about 20,000 bacteria per c.c. Two series of experi- 
ments were carried out, the milk for the first series being 
kept at 37, 20, and 10 C., and for the second at 20, 10, 
and 1 C. The milk samples were bacterially examined at 
intervals which varied with the temperatures employed. After 
some preliminary tests, it was found that the best intervals 
were as follows: Milk kept at 37 C. was plated every 2 
hours, that at 20 C. every 6 hours, that at 10 C. every 12 
hours, and that kept at 1 C. about every 3 days. The 
culture medium used for making the plates was litmus lactose 
whey gelatine. In the study of the plates, the total number 
of bacteria was determined, and then the total number of 
different types of colonies that could be differentiated from 
each other by hand lens and low power of the microscope. 

It was found possible to distinguish, without much 
difficulty, about 15 different groups of bacteria, that is, 15 
different types of distinguishing colonies in litmus gelatine. 
The groups tabulated are differentiated from each other wholly 
by the character of their colonies upon litmus gelatine. All 
the groups included several species of bacteria, and sometimes 
indeed were quite complex, and the weak point of the research 
is this rather indefinite grouping and differentiation. 

From the numerous experiments made, the following were 
the main conclusions arrived at. 

(1) The effect of variations in temperature upon the develop- 
ment of the different species of bacteria in milk is not always 
the same under apparently identical conditions. In spite of 
such variations, there appears to be clearly discernible a normal 
development of bacteria associated with different temperatures. 

(2) There is, in all cases, a certain period at the beginning 
when there is no increase in the total number of bacteria. 
During this period, some species are multiplying, while others 
are apparently dying. The length of this period depends 
upon temperature. At 37 C. it is very short, while at 1 C. it 
may last from 6 to 8 days, since at this temperature, milk may, 
in 6 days, actually contain fewer bacteria than when fresh. 

(3) After this preliminary period, there always follows 



52 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

a multiplication of bacteria ; but the types that develop differ so 
markedly, that samples of the same milk kept at different tem- 
peratures are, at later periods, very different in their bacterial 
content, even though they contain the same number of bacteria. 

(4) The development of the ordinary lactic species, Bact. 
lactis acidi, in practically all cases checks the growth of other 
species of bacteria, and finally kills them, since the bacteria 
regularly decrease in actual numbers after the lactic bacteria 
have become very abundant. 

(5) In practically all samples of milk kept at 20 C., the 
multiplication of the Bact. lactis acidi begins quickly, and 
progresses with great rapidity. They grow so rapidly that 
they produce acid enough to curdle the milk in about 40 
hours, the growth of other species being held in check, Milk, 
when curdled at this temperature, shows a smooth acid curd, 
with no gas bubbles. 

(6) Milk kept at 37 C. shows a totally different result. 
The results are somewhat more variable than at 20 C. 
Occasionally the Bact. lactis acidi grows vigorously at this tem- 
perature, but the common result is a development of the B. lactis 
acrogcncs type. It forms a curd full of gas bubbles. If B. coli 
communis is in the milk, this also grows luxuriantly at $1 <}. 

(7) In milk kept at 10 C., neither of the types of lactic 
bacteria seems to be favoured. The delay in growth lasts 
2 or 3 days, after which all types of bacteria appear to develop 
somewhat uniformly. Sometimes the lactic bacteria develop 
abundantly, sometimes only slightly. The neutral bacteria 
almost always grow rapidly, and the liquefiers in many cases 
become abundant. In time, the milk is apt to curdle, 
commonly with an acid reaction, but it never shows the pre- 
dominance of Bact. lactis acidi found at 20 C. 

(8) There seems to be no difference between the effect 
of 10" and 1 upon the bacteria, except upon the rapidity 
of growth : 1 C. very markedly checks the growth of bacteria ; 
but later they grow in great numbers. As at 10, the lactic 
bacteria fail to outgrow the other species, so that all types 
develop abundantly. A few species appear to be particularly 
well adapted to this low temperature, and are especially 
abundant at the end of the experiments. 

(9) The curdling point appears to be quite independent 



iv BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 53 

of the number of bacteria present. In one sample at 37 0. 
the milk curdled with only 8,000,000 per c.c., while in others 
there have been found 4,000,000,000 per c.c., without any 
curdling. These differences are due partly to the development 
of enzymes, and partly to the products of some species neutral- 
ising the actions of others. The amount of acid present at 
the time of ordinary acid curdling does not widely vary. 

(10) Milk is not necessarily wholesome because it is 
sweet, especially if it has been kept at low temperatures. At 
the temperature of an ice-chest milk may remain sweet for 
a long time, and yet contain enormous numbers of bacteria, 
among which are species more likely to be unwholesome than 
those that develop at 20 C. "From this standpoint the 
suggestion arises that instances of ice-cream poisoning are 
perhaps due to the preservation of cream for several days 
at a low temperature, such treatment keeping the milk sweet, 
but favouring the development of species of bacteria that are, 
at higher temperatures, checked by the lactic organisms." 

The difficulty of laying down standards of the number of 
bacteria, or of special kinds, such as R coli, to allow in vended 
milk, is discussed in Chapter XIV. In this connection the 
importance of studying the rate of multiplication in milk 
of organisms, and particularly of standard organisms, is 
obvious. 

Bacillus coli communis and its allies multiply rapidly in 
milk. The following table illustrates its multiplication in 
pasteurised milk kept at different temperatures. The milk 
was heated to 80 C. for 10 minutes, and care was taken to 
add only a few B. coli. 





15 C. 


22 C. 


37 C. 


Onset .... 


23 


23 


23 


After 3 hours . 


15 


65 


910 


6 


73 


116 


over 30,000 


q 

" 5) 


510 


930 


innumerable 


12 


248 


3500 


innumerable 


24 


3210 


168,000 




Twenty-four hours' increase 


140 fold 


7300 fold 


... 



All results are per standard platinum loopful. 



54 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The writer has carried out l an extensive series of experi- 
ments to study the rate of growth of R coli and its allies in 
ordinary market milk, kept under different conditions of time 
and temperature. The following table shows the multiplication 
of B. coli in milk collected at the byre and examined at once 
and under definite conditions. 



i 


Fresh Byre Milk. 


After 24 hours' incubation 
at 15 C. 


After 24 hours' incubation 
at 20-21 C. 


e 













i =ls 


Xo. of B. coli 


! i? 


"IS 


1 
: X'o. of .B. coli. 


sj? 


*jd 


Xo. of B. coli 


6 


'3 


*J! 


per c.c. 


1 1 


fH 


per c.c. 


'o 


h c-g ^ 


per c.c. 


8 




25,700 


100-1000 










45,700,000 


10,000-100,000 


9 




10.300 


0-1-1 










2,210,000 


100-100,000 


11 




35; ooo 


100-1000 








3,800,000 


10,000-100,000 


13 




12,170 


1-10 






i 10,000-100,000 








15 




3,670 


Absent in 




15,000 


0-1-1 














11 c.c. 














16 


19-5 


2,800 


0-1-1 


: 17-5 


65,000 


100-1000 


18-5 


870,000 


10,000 


17 


20'5 


7,530 


10-100 


21-5 


75,000 


10,000-100,000 


21-0 


1,382,000 


100,000-500,000 


18 


23-5 


14,200 


100-1000 


, 23-5 


125,000 


10,000-100,000 


24-5 


810,000 


500,000-1,000,000 


19 


22-7 


1,150 


Absent in 


21-5 


16,500 


0-1-1 


22-0 


680,000 


500-1000 






11 c.c. 














20 


19-0 


8,260 I 0-1-1 


20-0 


14,000 


1-10 


19-5 


202,000 


1000-10,000 


21 


23-5 


2,150 j 0-1-0-2 


22-5 ] 18,000 


0-1-1 


26-0 


577,000 


0-1-1 


22 


19-0 


5,750 ! 0-1-0-2 


18-0 4,400 


Absent in 5 c.c. 


19-5 


75,000 


Absent in 1 c.c. 


23 


22-5 


31,700 


10-100 


21-0 78,000 


1000-10,000 








24 


21-5 


3,290 


1-10 


21-0 37,000 


100-1000 








25 


20-0 


6,400 


10-100 


19-3 


13,000 


1000-10,000 


20-5 


440,000 


1000-10,000 


26 


19-5 


21,000 


100-1000 


25-0 




100,000-1,000,000 








27 


19-0 


11,200 


1-10 


20-0 


1000-2000 








28 


17-0 


6,380 


1-10 


17 '5 


20-100 








29 


22-Q 


2,330 


0-4 


22-3 100.000 


10,000-100,000 








30 


18-5 




10-100 


20-5 | 


5000-10,000 


23 






31 


21-3 




1-10 


21-3 I 


5000-10,000 


23 




10,000-100,000 


32 


20-0 




1-10 


20-8 i 


1000-5000 


22 






34 


17-5 1,550 0-2 


17-5 6,000 


10-50 


17-3 


55,000 


1000-10,000 


35 


22'0 i 64(1 Absent in 


21-5 1 


10-50 


22-0 


1,440,000 


10,000-100,000 




5 c.c. 












37 


is-o 


1,800 Absent in 


21-5 


1-10 












5 c.c. 












39 


21-8 


6,000 Absent in 


20-5 


100-500 


20-5 




Less than 1 






5 c.c. 












40 


19-0 


10-100 


18-0 


1000-5000 


5 5 '2 






41 


21 '5 




1-10 


24 "2 


100-1000 


39-0 




10,000-100,000 


43 


16-0 


100-1000 


15-5 


10,000-100,000 ' 


20-4 






44 


17-5 


1-10 18-0 


1000-10,000 








45 


17-2 


10-100 17-5 


1000-5000 








47 


22-5 


0-6 23-0 




500-1000 








48 


17-0 


! 1000-10,000 


19-5 


Over 100,000 








59 


17-0 


40,900 0-4 18-2 i 


100-500 


1S-5 




1000-10,000 


60 


16-5 


40,400 ! Absent in 


19-0 


0-4 


24-0 




500-1000 






5 c.c. 












61 


18-0 


36,000 1-10 


20-4 


100-1000 


22-0 




1000-10,000 


62 


16-5 


57,200 0-8 


18-5 


100-500 


20-5 




10,000-100,000 


63 


19-4 


4.700 0-2 


19-5 j 


50-100 


19-5 




5000-10,000 


64 


18-7 


13,900 


0-2 


19-0 


1-10 









For convenience of study the results are divided into five 
groups according to the initial number of B. coli and allied 
organisms and are summarised in the following two tables : 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1909-10, p. 474. 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 



55 



Fresh Byre Milk incubated for 24 hours at 15 C. 



A 




CD'S 

HI 


Initial coli Content. 


Coli Content after 24 hours 
at 15 C. 


Increase. 


A 


6 


Nil in 5 c.c. 


Variable. 1-10 (mean) per c.c. 




B 


11 


O'l-l per c.c. 


,, 10-100 ,, ,, 


100 fold. 


C 


9 


1-10 


Fairly uniform. About 1000 ,, 


100-1000 ,, 


D 


6 


10-100 ,, 


Very ,, 1000-10,000 ,, 


100 ,, 


E 


5 


100-1000 


,, ,, 10,000-100,000 ,, 


100 



Fresh Byre Milk incubated for %4 hours at 20 -21 C. 





'S yj-O 








1 


CD 'o | C 


Initial coli Content. 


Coli Content after 24 hours 
at 20-21 C. 


Increase. 


o 


|<*g 








A 


3 


Nil in 5 c.c. 


Very variable. 




B 


9 


O'l-l per c.c. 


Variable. 1000-10,000. 


10,000 fold. 


C 


3 


1-10 


,, 10,000-100,000. 


10,000 


D 


2 


10-100 ,, 


Variable. 


100-10,000 ,, 


E 


3 


100-1000 


Variable 10,000-100,000. 


100-1000 ,, 



Milk is a complex fluid bacterially, and the presence of 
other kinds of bacteria might be expected to influence materially 
the multiplication of B. coli. The results on the whole show 
less variation than might have been anticipated. At 15 C. 
the increase was usually 100 fold, occasionally 1000 fold, and 
practically never greater than this. At 20 21 C. the increase 
was usually 10,000 fold, but was less when the initial number 
of B. coli was very great. 

These experiments show that temperature is a more im- 
portant factor than initial number in determining the final 
number of B. coli, but that both are very important. From a 
few experiments made, but not recorded here, it would seem 
that time is less important than temperature. 

From the point of view of standards for vended milk the 
results of the incubation at 15 C. of samples of milk with 
initial B. coli content of not over 1 per c.c. are of greatest 
interest. As the tables show, the increase was variable, but 
was very rarely over 1000 fold, and was usually much less. 



56 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes is another organism of im- 
portance in estimating the purity of milk samples. The writer 
incubated at 15 C. and at 21 C. 18 samples of milk in which 
the number of the spores of this organism had been determined, 
and found no evidence of any multiplication. 

The investigations of the writer were more particularly 
directed to ascertaining the effects of time upon milk kept at 
a temperature (15 C.) at which it would be likely to be 
subjected under actual practical conditions. Other workers 
have shown that if milk be kept at a low temperature, for 
example 10 C., there will not be any marked increase in the 
number of bacteria within a reasonable time. For example, 
Houston kept 15 samples of milk at temperatures varying 
from 6 to 11 C. for 24 hours, and roughly re-determined the 
B. coli content. In 7 samples he found no change, in 6 an 
increase, and in 2 a decrease. 

Stewart 1 kept 25 samples of byre milk at 10 C. for 10 
and 20 hours. The temperature was reduced within one hour 
of milking. Only comparatively slight increase took place in 
the number of B. coli communis even after 20 hours. The 
following table also shows the results of keeping 11 samples 
at 40 F. (4*4 C.) for different periods : 

1 Report on the Bacteriological Examination of Milk Samples, 1909. 



[TABLE 



IV 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 57 



hours at 4-4 C. 


| 
1 


cJ 

1 

::::::: .g - 

' '" ' I 


. s 




Number of 
Bacteria. 



iO O 
; ; ; ; ; ; ; CM^ CM 

I-H I-H 



iO 

r-t i-H 


o 


g 


d d 
c5 c5 


CM CM 




1 



1 


-4-3 -t-^ 

$ z 

m tn 






II 


O O O O O O O 
O O O O O O . iO 
O CM^ Jt^ !- O O^ ; CM 

ao* oT <xT cT cT i-T ,-T 

i 1 r-H i 1 i \ 


o o 

iO iO 

CM r- 

CM" i-T 


d 

-p 
g 

3 

o 


| 

g 

g 


1 






O O 
CM CM 

.S - - : : : .S 

-u -+J 

I I 

r^ r <^> 




00 


p o 


000 
iO O O . . . .O 
r- CM ; ; ; ; O 






1 


6 

6 
o 

CM 

a ------ 




As received. 


8 
1 


1 






ii 


ooooooooo 

OOiOOiOOkOOO 
CM01>iOCMJ>I>-iOO 


o o 

iO 
iO G<1 




o 


O5t-COOOOiOOT-H 


^H rH 




^ 







5 8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

These different investigations show the profound influence of 
temperature upon the multiplication of bacteria in milk. For 
milk kept at C. no multiplication of any significance takes 
place for many days ; at 10 C. there is some increase, but 
within a reasonable period it is negligible ; at 1 5 C. there is 
a considerable increase, but one which is not inordinate ; while 
at higher temperatures the contained bacteria multiply with 
very great rapidity. 



C. THE BEHAVIOUR OF PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN MILK AND 
MILK PRODUCTS 

As every bacteriologist knows, sterile milk is a suitable 
culture medium for the majority of pathogenic bacteria. In 
ordinary market milk, any pathogenic bacteria present have, 
however, to withstand the possible prejudicial effect of the 
presence of a large number of other organisms which may be 
better suited to their environment and whose products may 
be inimical. The extent to which pathogenic bacteria will 
live and multiply in milk cannot, therefore, be forecasted with 
certainty, and a number of investigations have had to be 
carried out to study the question. 

Eyre l studied the rate of multiplication of some of the 
pathogenic bacteria in sterile milk. He was careful not to 
use sterilised milk, but used milk obtained in a sterile condition 
by drawing it from the healthy cow under aseptic conditions. 
He obtained the following results : 





hours. 


24 hours. 


48 hours. 


7 days. 


Bacillus diphtheriae 


39 


1,170 


22,000 


19,000,000 


Streptococcus of bovine mastitis 


44 


3,100 


14,700 


30,000,000 


Vibrio cholerae . 


12 




400,000 


4,000,000 


Bacillus typhosus 


78 


6,000 


10,300,000 


440,000,000 


Bacillus enteritidis of Gaertner 


56 


10,370 


72,850,000 


99,900,000 



This table, as Eyre points out, fails to show the exact 
course of events, and if the results of the examinations at 
shorter periods of time are studied, a definite bactericidal 
influence is shown. This is seen from the following table : 

1 Journ. of State Medicine, 1904, xii. p. 728. 



IV 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 59 





hours. 


2 hours. 


4 hours. 


6 hours. 


8 hours. 


12 hours. 


24 hours. 


Bacillus typhosus 


78 


50 


42 


42 


46 


460 


6000 


Bacillus enteri- 
















tidis of Gaertner 


56 


33 


26 


48 


94 


154 


10,370 



The growth and viability of R typhosus in milk has been 
studied by many workers. In sterilised milk it has been 
found to survive for as long as four months (Hesse, also Bolley 
and Field). In market milk, kept at 7 10 C. and inoculated 
with a massive dose of typhoid bacilli, Pfuhl found them alive 
when examined 1 1 and 1 3 days later. Cautley added typhoid 
bacilli to milk and recovered them after 7 days ; while Bolley 
and Field recovered them from inoculated milk after a month. 

While typhoid bacilli grow well in fresh milk, their 
growth is usually checked by the increased acid production. 
According to Bassenge, 1 the bacilli are killed out if the acid 
production reaches 0*3-0'4 percent and acts for over 24 hours. 
Bolley and Field, 2 Heim and other workers have, however, 
obtained different results, and certainly any degree of naturally- 
acquired acid production in milk cannot be relied upon to 
kill any contained typhoid bacilli. 

The typhoid bacillus has also been shown by numerous 
investigators to live many days in butter ; for example, for 
3 weeks by Heim, 5-10 days by Bolley and Field, 24 days 
by Pfuhl. 

Bruck 3 showed that typhoid bacilli could be isolated from 
cream up to 10 days, after its separation in a separator from 
milk artificially infected with typhoid bacilli. It could be 
isolated from the buttermilk for 10 days, and from butter 
made from the cream for 27 days. 

Pteitz made butter, incorporated typhoid bacilli, recovered 
them in one experiment after 10 days but not after 15 days 
in another experiment. 

Pfuhl mixed typhoid bacilli with cheese and isolated the 
bacilli after 24 but not after 26 days. Other workers found 
the bacilli died out much sooner. Probably much depends 
on the type of cheese used for the experiments. 

1 Deutsche med. Wochenschr., 1903, xxix. p. 675. 

2 Cemtralbl.f. Bakt., 1898, vol. xxiii. p. 881. 

3 Deutsche med. Wochenschr., 1903, xxix. p. 460. 



60 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The diphtheria bacillus grows readily in milk, the milk 
remaining unchanged in appearance although an acid reaction 
develops. The table of Eyre's, recorded above, shows how 
rapidly this organism multiplies in sterile milk. 

Schottelius, 1 in his investigations, found that the diphtheria 
bacillus grew better in raw than in sterilised milk, at both 
room temperatures and at 37 C., the raw milk being obtained 
direct from the udder. Feinberg has confirmed this, but Jensen, 
on the other hand, found their growth was retarded in raw 
fresh milk. 

In butter, according to Montefusco, the diphtheria bacillus 
is killed after two days. The only observation which the 
writer has found as to growth in cream or cheese is one of 
Klein's, 2 who found that diphtheria bacilli inoculated into 
sterile cream and sterile cheese, kept, part at 37 C. and 
part at 20 C., were not recovered when examined for after 
two weeks. 

Sp. cJwlerae grows rapidly in sterile milk without naked 
eye change, but with the production of a little acid. In 
ordinary market milk the acid reaction initially present, or 
which rapidly develops, is prejudicial to its growth, as this 
organism requires an alkaline medium in which to grow. The 
results of investigations as to the viability of the cholera vibrio 
in raw milk, show that it does not survive for long periods. 
Thus, Cunningham could not find it after 24 hours, Uffelmann 
found it after 3 but not after 40 hours, Friedrich not after 2 days, 
Basenau not after 38 hours. On the other hand, Heim found 
it to live 1 to 6 days. From the results obtained and from 
the known inhibitory action of acid on its growth, it is clear 
that the viability depends upon the temperature at which the 
milk is kept and the rate at which acid develops. Klein ' 2 
found it to live longer in milk at 7 12 C. than when 
the milk was kept at 12-22 C. 

In butter, Heim 3 and others have shown that this organism 
soon dies out, usually not living more than a few days; although, 
in one experiment, Heim records that they were found alive 
after 49 days. Heim, Eowland, and other workers have 

1 GentralU.f. BaU., 1896, Abt. I. xx. p. 897. 

2 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1899-1900, p. 577. 
3 Arbeit a. d. Kaiserl. Gcsundheitsamtc r. 1889, v. p. 294. 



iv BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 61 

also failed to find this organism after one or two days in 
cheese. 

Micrococcus melitensis grows rapidly in sterile milk with 
rapid alkali production, but without producing visible change. 
It is found in the milk of a large proportion of the goats in 
Malta, producing no visible alteration in the milk. 

Tubercle bacilli will grow in sterilised milk, the milk 
remaining unchanged. They grow so slowly in milk that in- 
vestigations as to their rate of growth are of no practical 
significance, while we have abundant evidence that they retain 
their virulence and viability all the time milk is likely to be 
kept unconsumed. Living tubercle bacilli have been found in 
butter made as long as five months previously from rnilk con- 
taining tubercle bacilli, but they appear to usually die out 
earlier. They apparently die out more rapidly in salt than in 
fresh butter. 

Teichert 1 investigated a large number of butter samples 
obtained from thirty-six different dairies. None of the samples 
more than 18 days old set up tuberculosis in guinea-pigs. 
Teichert concluded that in the salt butters tubercle bacilli 
lose their virulence in about three weeks. 

Mohler, Washburn, and Eogers 2 carried out an interesting 
series of experiments. Three samples of butter were made, 
the first from milk artificially inoculated with tubercle bacilli 
from a culture, the second and third from the milk of a cow 
suffering from udder tuberculosis, the milk containing great 
numbers of very virulent tubercle bacilli. The first two were 
salted in the usual proportions of 1 oz. of salt to 16 oz. 
of butter, the third sample was left unsalted. The samples 
of butter were kept in cold storage, while from time to time 
guinea-pigs were fed and inoculated. The samples were tested 
when first made, after storing 10 days, after 60 days, and 
after 5 months. The results showed that each of these samples 
harboured virulent tubercle bacilli throughout the entire storage 
period, and that at any time they were capable of setting up 
tuberculosis in guinea-pigs when inoculated intra-peritoneally. 

Tubercle bacilli may also live for some time in cheese. 

1 JSZin. Jahrb., 1904, xii. p. 467. 

2 Bulletin No. 41, Public Health and Marine Hospital Service, U.S.A., 1908, 
p. 494. 



62 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Using milk artificially inoculated with tubercle bacilli and 
then made into cheese, Galtier found the bacilli alive in cheese 
2 months and 1 days old respectively. Harrison made cheese 
from milk artificially inoculated with tubercle bacilli. In cheese 
made by the Emmental method, they died between the 34th 
and the 40th day; in Cheddar cheese, after 62 to 70 days. 

D. THERMAL DEATH-POINTS OF PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN 

MILK 

In view of the extent to which the sterilisation and parti- 
cularly the pasteurisation of milk is carried out commercially, 
it is of fundamental importance that accurate information 
should be available as to the temperatures at which the patho- 
genic bacteria possibly to be found in milk are killed. For 
practical purposes it is necessary to distinguish between 
laboratory results and those obtained under the modifying 
influences of practical working conditions. 

Thermal death-points cannot be stated as definite tempera- 
tures since obviously there are two closely related facts the 
temperature of exposure and the period of exposure. In 
addition, factors not without influence are the vitality of 
particular strains of bacilli and the physical conditions of 
exposure. Among bacteria some strains are more resistant 
to physical conditions than others ; this must be taken into 
account, and any accepted figure must relate to the death- 
point of the most resistant strains of individual bacilli likely 
to be present. In experimental work it is common to find 
that certain bacilli, even from a single culture, are more 
resistant than the rest and survive the heat or chemical 
employed. 

As regards the physical conditions of exposure, since 
only a single fluid is under consideration, it might be 
supposed that these would always be the same, but this is 
not quite the case. The chemical reaction of milk varies, 
and this may influence a little, while much more important 
is the presence or absence of surface scum. If milk is 
rapidly evaporated a surface pellicle forms consisting of 
coagulated albumens with entangled fat and bacilli. Such 
a pellicle is at a lower temperature than the fluid beneath, 



iv BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 63 

and bacilli enclosed in it will be protected and subjected to a 
lower temperature than that registered by the thermometer, and 
so may escape being killed. The physical condition of the 
bacilli themselves is also an important factor which must be 
taken into consideration. If the bacilli are agglutinated into 
clumps or entangled in masses of manure or debris, those in 
the centre will be subjected to a lower temperature than that 
recorded or intended to be applied, and may escape destruction. 

These considerations and possible fallacies show that the 
problem is not as simple as it appears, and that in the deter- 
mination of thermal death -points it is very important to 
employ bacteria in their greatest state of resistance, and under 
conditions which allow all modifying factors to be taken into 
consideration. Further, in deductions for practical work it is 
advisable to allow a margin of safety sufficient to exclude errors 
from these sources, and to make the destruction of pathogenic 
bacteria certain. 

Since the pathogenic bacilli differ in resistance the results 
obtained must be considered separately for each organism. 

B. typhosus. The results of the numerous experiments 
which have been carried out by different workers are closely 
in agreement, and show that typhoid bacilli suspended in 
milk are, as a rule, killed when the milk is heated to 60 C., 
provided the heating up takes several minutes, while their 
destruction is ensured if the milk is maintained at that 
temperature for at least 5 minutes. 

As examples of recent investigations the following may be 
mentioned. Bassenge l found that when milk was heated to 
60 C. in from 5 to 10 minutes the bacilli were killed, but 
not all were killed if the time for heating was only 3 
minutes. 

Kolle, Kutscher, Meinicke, and Friedel 2 found that B. 
typhosus, B. paratyphosus, and B. enteritidis had the same re- 
sistance to heat, and were all killed when the milk was heated 
to 59 C. if 10 minutes was taken to heat the milk to that 
temperature. 

Eosenau 3 carried out experiments with nine different 

1 Deutsche med. Wochenschr., 1903, xxix. p. 264. 

2 Klin. Jahrb., 1904, xiii. p. 324. 
3 Bulletin No. 42, Public Health and Marine Hospital Service, U.S.A., 1908. 



64 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

strains of typhoid bacilli. His results showed that in milk 
heated to 60 C. and maintained at that point for 2 
minutes all the typhoid bacilli were killed. The great 
majority of these organisms were killed by the time the 
temperature reached 59 C. A few survived to 60 C. 

R diphtheriae. Welch and Abbott, also Eoux and Yersin, 
have tested the thermal death-point of this bacillus in broth, 
sterile salt solutions, etc. Both sets of observers found that 
10 minutes' exposure at 58 C. killed the bacilli. 

Eosenau (loc. cit.) found that diphtheria bacilli succumb 
at comparatively low temperatures. Frequently they failed 
to grow after heating to 55 C., but some occasionally survived 
until the milk reached 60 C. Eosenau only used one strain 
of diphtheria bacillus, but carried out ten different experi- 
ments. 

Vibrio cJwlerae. Kolle, Kutscher, Meinicke, and Eriedel 
found that this vibrio was not killed in milk until a tempera- 
ture of 60 C. was reached. In their experiments it took 7 to 
8 minutes for the milk to reach this temperature. 

Eosenau carried out eighteen experiments. He concluded 
that the cholera vibrio is similar to the diphtheria bacillus so 
far as its thermal death-point is concerned. It was almost 
invariably destroyed when the milk reached 55 C., and only 
once did it survive to 60 C. under the conditions of the 
experiments. 

B. dysentcriac. Eosenau found this bacillus somewhat 
more resistant to heat than the typhoid bacillus. He found 
that it sometimes withstood heating, at 60 C. for 5 minutes. 
All were killed by exposing to 60 C C. for 10 minutes, while 
the majority were killed by the time the milk reached 60 C. 

Micrococcus melitensis. Dalton and Eyre 1 carried out a 
series of experiments, and found the thermal death-point to 
be 57'5 C. with a fixed time exposure of 10 minutes. They 
used five different strains of micrococcus. They did not, 
however, test the organism in milk. Eosenau carried out 
three experiments with this organism in milk. He found 
that it was not destroyed at 55 C. for a few minutes (4^), 
that the great majority die at 58, and at 60 C. all are 
destroyed. He concluded that 60 C. for 20 minutes is more 

1 Journ. of Hygiene, 1904, iv. p. 157. 



IV 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 65 



than sufficient to destroy the infective principle of Malta fever 
in milk. 

B. tuberculosis. Special difficulties have been met with in 
determining the thermal death-point of this bacillus in milk, 
and decidedly discrepant results have been obtained by different 
workers. Part of the difficulty is due to the fact that the only 
way to ascertain whether the tubercle bacilli are alive or 
not after the heating is by animal inoculation, and the lesions 
produced by the injection of dead tubercle bacilli somewhat 
closely resemble those resulting from injection of the living 
bacilli. The discrepant results are also in part to be accounted 
for by the bacilli not being always in uniform emulsion. In 
this country experiments have been carried out by Woodhead, 
by Macfadyen and Hewlett and others. 

Woodhead x obtained discordant and contradictory results. 
For example, in some experiments 25 minutes at 60 C. killed 
the tubercle bacilli, in others 8 hours was required. 

Hewlett and Macfadyen 2 found that almost invariably 
milk, to which powdered dry sputum had been added, was 
rendered free from living tubercle bacilli by momentary heating 
to 67-68 C. 

Hewlett 3 carried out a few further experiments with 
artificially inoculated milk. He found that tuberculous milk 
heated to 60 C. for 30 minutes failed to produce tuberculosis 
in guinea-pigs, while also such milk contained no living 
tubercle bacilli after 20 minutes at 68 65 C. in an Allenbury 
pasteuriser. 

The Continental findings are discrepant. They are rather 
numerous and only a few can be mentioned. The earlier 
results of Yersin, Bitter, Bonhoff, Forster, etc., showed that 
while 60 C. for one hour was nearly always fatal to the 
tubercle bacillus, the effect of a much shorter time exposure 
was very variable. De Man's 4 results are frequently quoted, 
but he did not work with tubercle bacilli in milk, and his 
findings obtained by using the cheesy substance scraped from the 
cut surface of tuberculous udders cannot be applied to tubercle 
bacilli naturally occurring or even artificially added to milk. 

1 Royal Commission Report, 1895, p. 145. 

2 Trans. Brit. Inst. of Prev. Med. vol. i. 

3 Journ. of State Med., 1900, viii. p. 754. 

4 Archiv.f. Hyg., 1893, xviii. p. 133. 

F 



66 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Beck, Galtier, and Eabinowitsch, each independently re- 
porting in 1900, all obtained results showing a high degree 
of resistance for the tubercle bacillus. Galtier, for example, 
found that 5 minutes at 70 C. or even 85 C. was not always 
sufficient to kill tubercle bacilli in milk. 

Bang's later work in 1902 avoids some of the earlier 

o 

errors. He found that while heating to 60 C. for 15 minutes 
did not prevent peritoneal infection from tubercle bacilli in 
the milk, such heated milk failed to set up tuberculosis in fed 
animals. Exposure for 1 to 15 minutes at 65 C. killed the 
tubercle bacilli, and so did momentary exposure at 70, 75, 
80, arid 85 C. 

On the other hand, investigations made in America show 
a much lower resistance to heat, and the results of their work, 
which appears to have been very carefully done, are entitled 
to careful consideration. The work of Theobald Smith, Eussell 
and Hastings, and of Eosenau, may be especially mentioned. 

Smith, 1 using a standard temperature of 60 C., and working 
with tubercle bacilli suspended in distilled water, normal saline, 
and broth, found that 15 minutes at that temperature was 
sufficient to kill the bacilli. With milk his results were less 
uniform. When the milk was heated in closed receptacles 
so that a surface scum was not formed, the tubercle bacilli 
were killed by 15 minutes' exposure to 60 C., and were, there- 
fore, not more resistant in milk than in other fluids. When' 
the milk was exposed to the air so that a pellicle formed 
on the surface, this protected the bacilli, and Smith found that 
it might contain living tubercle bacilli even after 60 minutes' 
exposure to 60 C. 

Eussell and Hastings, 2 following up this work of Smith's, 
carried out some experiments under practical conditions with 
tubercle bacillus infected milk heated in a pasteuriser (Pott's 
pasteuriser). This was a pasteuriser of intermittent type, i.e. 
one in which a definite quantity of milk is heated for a definite 
time. The pasteuriser was rotated to effect uniform tempera- 
ture exposure of the milk. Tubercle bacilli cultures of bovine 
origin were added to the milk. All the experiments were 

1 Journ. Exper. Medicine, 1899, vol. iv. p. 219. 

2 University of Wisconsin Agric. Experiment Stn., 17th Annual Report, 
1900, p. 147. 



IV 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 67 



carried out at a temperature of 60 C., and only 2 to 5 minutes 
was taken to heat up the milk to this temperature. The 
viability of the tubercle bacilli was ascertained by intra- 
peritoneal injection into guinea-pigs. In their first series they 
carried out 30 experiments. In all the cases in which the 
milk was kept at 60 C. for 10, 15, 20, 30, or 45 minutes, 
no tuberculosis in the guinea-pigs occurred, but when the ex- 
posure was for only 5 minutes tuberculosis resulted in all the 
experiments. They concluded that a temperature of 60 C..for 
10 minutes is sufficient to effectively destroy the vitality of 
tubercle bacilli in milk. 

These series of experiments were carried out under con- 
ditions in which the formation of a surface scum did not 
readily occur. Two further series of experiments were made 
to compare these results with those obtained by heating the 
milk in an open vessel and without stirring. The results 
summarised in the following table were obtained : 





Manner of Heating. 


Time of Exposure (all at 60 C.). 


Series a. 


Series /3. 




Closed Apparatus 
(Pott pasteuriser). 


Open 
Vessel. 


Closed 
Apparatus. 


Open 

Vessel. 


5 minutes 


+ + 


+ + 


+ + 




10 





+ + 





+ + 


15 








+ + 


Control (unheated) + 











- = No tuberculosis ; + = tuberculosis, 
separate experiment. 



Each symbol represents a 



Their results show clearly that when the milk was exposed 
in a quiescent condition, as in a glass tube or bottle, the. 
tubercle bacilli were more resistant than when the milk was 
in a closed receiver and agitated. The cause of the differ- 
ence is probably to be ascribed to the formation of a surface 
scum. 

The authors recommend, " in order to thoroughly pasteurise 
milk so as to destroy any tubercle bacilli which it may contain, 
without in any way injuring its creaming properties or con- 
sistency, to heat the same in closed pasteurisers for a period 
of not less than 20 minutes at 140 F. (60 C.)." 



68 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

In a later report 1 they investigated the action of short 
exposures at a higher temperature upon tubercle bacilli, this 
being the actual conditions met with in milk pasteurised in 
apparatus of the continuous action type. 

They carried out a large number of experiments with milk 
heated to 160 F., 175 F., 185 F., with exposure times 
varying from 1 to 10 minutes. Exposure for 1 minute or 
longer at these temperatures invariably resulted in the death 
of the tubercle bacilli as shown by failure to set up tuber- 
culosis in inoculated animals. These results were obtained under 
laboratory conditions, the milk being infected with tubercle 
bacilli cultures of bovine source and exposed to the required 
temperature in sealed glass tubes placed in a water bath. It 
took three-quarters of a minute for the milk to reach the tem- 
perature of the outside water. The authors consider that their 
results approximate sufficiently to the conditions that obtain 
in practice where continuous flow pasteurisers are used, to 
be available for deductions for practical work. 

Eosenau 2 carried out numerous experiments, using five 
different strains of tubercle bacilli, all of bovine origin. 
Young cultures of tubercle bacilli in fine emulsion in milk 
were used. All the tests were made by placing test tubes 
containing the un warmed infected milk in a water bath con- 
taining water at the desired temperature (60 or 65 C.). 
The test tubes in which the infected milk was heated were 
open to the air, and scum formation was disregarded in all 
instances, the object being to determine the thermal death -point 
under natural conditions so that the results might be applied 
with confidence to practical pasteurisation. The guinea-pig 
test was used to ascertain the viability of the tubercle bacilli. 

A large number of very careful experiments arranged in 
9 series were carried out. The temperature of exposure was 
always 60 or 65 C., and the results are briefly summarised 
in the following table : 

1 Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station, 21st Annual Report, 1904, 
p. 178. 

2 Bulletin No. 42, PuUic Health and Marine Hospital Service, U.S.A., 1908. 



BEHAVIOUR OF BACTERIA IN MILK 69 



Time of Exposure. 


Result. 


60 C. 


65 C. 


1 minute 


+ + + -- + 





2 minutes 


+ H h 





3 


- + 


- 


4 







5 5) 


+ + + 





' 


1 __, 




8 


- 





10 


1 


- - 


12 


H 


- 


15 








18 







20 


? 


- 


30 







40 







50 








In addition, single experiments at 60 C. with time exposures of 
6, 23, 25, 28, 35, 45, and 60 minutes were all negative. 

+ = tuberculosis and - = no tuberculosis in the inoculated guinea-pig. 
Each + or - sign represents a separate experiment. 

From these experiments Rosenau concludes that the tubercle 
bacillus in milk loses its infective properties for guinea-pigs 
when heated to 60 C. and maintained at that temperature 
for 20 minutes, or to 65 C. for a much shorter time. He 
remarks : " It should be remembered that the milk in these 
tests was very heavily infected with virulent cultures, indicated 
by the prompt deaths of the control animals. Milk would 
practically never contain such an enormous amount of infection 
under natural conditions. It is justifiable to assume that if 
60 C. for 20 minutes is sufficient to destroy the infectiveness 
of such milk when injected into the peritoneal cavity of a 
guinea-pig, any ordinary market milk after such treatment 
would be quite safe for human use by the mouth so far as 
tubercle bacilli are concerned." 

If the American results are accepted, it would seem that 
a temperature of 60 C. maintained for 20 minutes is capable 
of killing all tubercle bacilli in milk, especially if the conditions 
preclude the formation of surface scum, while a much shorter 
exposure is sufficient if 65 C. or 70 C. is employed. 



70 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . 



IV 



The problem of the thermal death-point of tubercle bacilli 
in milk has been considered in detail because of its fundamental 
practical importance. The temperature to employ and the 
period of exposure at that temperature for commercial pas- 
teurisation are based upon the conditions necessary to kill 
pathogenic bacteria, and especially the tubercle bacillus, in 
milk. 



CHAPTEE V 

MILK AND THE ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

IT is unnecessary to-day to insist upon the fact that milk may 
be a vehicle for the transmission of infectious disease to man. 
So many practical demonstrations of this fact have unhappily 
been furnished in our own country of raw milk drinkers that 
the fact has to be universally admitted. As long ago as 1857 
Dr. Taylor of Penrith showed that an outbreak of typhoid fever 
amongst his patients was due to milk infected from a human 
case of typhoid fever. It throws a strong light upon the 
backwardness of epidemiology at this period that an interval 
of ten years elapsed before any important outbreak of infectious 
disease was again traced to an infected milk supply, and this 
second investigation we also owe to Taylor, who showed that 
an outbreak of scarlet fever was due to milk infected from a 
case of scarlet fever. Since that date milk has repeatedly 
been shown to be a vehicle for the spread of infectious 
disease. 

Apart from tuberculosis, which is considered in Chapter 
VII., the infectious diseases which have been shown to have 
been spread by milk are the following : diphtheria, typhoid 
fever, scarlet fever, infective sore -throats, Malta fever, and 
occasionally gastro-enteritis outbreaks, dysentery, and cholera. 

SOURCES OF INFECTION 

To convey infectious disease the milk must have had added 
to it the specific organism of that disease. While individually 
very numerous the sources of infection can be grouped under 
one of the three following heads : 

A. Direct human infection. 

71 



72 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

B. Indirect human infection. 

C. Infection of bovine origin whether direct or indirect. 
Direct Human Infection. Milk may become directly 

infected from a person either suffering from infectious disease, 
or carrying the infective organisms. Of these ways, the 
following are the most important : 

(a) One of the commonest sources of infection is that 
amongst the milkers, or others handling the milk, one or more 
are suffering from the infectious disease in a mild and hitherto 
unrecognised condition. Occasionally, it has not been officially 
recognised because of culpable carelessness on the part of the 
sufferer or his employer. 

(&) A second common source of infection is from persons 
who are brought into contact with sufferers from infectious 
disease being employed handling cows, milk, or milk vessels. 
In many epidemics the origin of the outbreak is to be traced 
to infectious disease in the family of the cowman or milk 
distributor. The sufferers are not properly isolated, and the in- 
fective organisms are carried into the milk on the hands or cloth- 
ing of the members of the family connected with the milk supply. 

(c) Sometimes no person actively suffering from infectious 
disease can be found in any way connected with the milk 
supply, and the source of infection has been found to be 
a person who, while exhibiting no signs of illness, yet carries 
the germs of the infectious disease in the throat, nose, or 
other part of his body. The recognition of such carrier cases 
is a comparatively recent triumph of preventive medicine, and 
this source of infection is one of great importance. 

Allied to these cases is the small group of outbreaks due 
to infection from persons who have not handled milk while 
suffering from infectious disease, but who have returned to 
work apparently cured although still in an infectious con- 
dition. 

Indirect Human Infection. In a considerable number of 
milk-borne outbreaks, particularly of typhoid fever, the source 
of infection has been indirect, and usually from infected water. 
The opportunities for such infection are not uncommon, 
although less operative to-day now that typhoid fever is a 
comparatively rare disease. 

As detailed in Chapter XV. it is still common for milk 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 73 

vessels to be washed in water which is certainly liable to 
sewage pollution. Cows frequently have to drink from sewage- 
polluted sources, and contaminate their udders by standing 
up in such water. 

Infection of Bovine Origin. The possibility of this source 
of infection is considered in detail in Chapter VI. 

THE GENERAL CHARACTERS OF MILK-BORNE OUTBREAKS 

While variations are not uncommon, certain broad general 
features are met with, and may be looked for in outbreaks 
spread by milk. The following are the most important : 

1. The Incidence is upon those who drink a Particular 
Supply of Milk. The invaded houses have a common milk 
supply, and usually nothing else in common. Inquiry shows 
that the households supplied with milk from a particular 
source are picked out and infected. While many such house- 
holds escape, it is found that when comparative inquiries are 
made the consumers of the implicated supply furnish a much 
higher percentage of cases than either the rest of the com- 
munity or the consumers of milk from any other source. 

The percentage affected of consumers of the implicated 
rnilk varies greatly in different epidemics and for epidemics of 
different diseases. Variations as wide apart as 4 and 100 per 
cent have been recorded. 

The smallest percentage invasion of households is met with 
in scarlet fever outbreaks. It would probably be higher if all 
ill-defined cases with symptoms mainly or exclusively those 
of sore-throat were notified and included. 

That only a portion, and that a variable one, of the con- 
sumers of the implicated supply become infected is, of course, 
readily explainable. In many households the milk would be 
rendered harmless by boiling or cooking before use ; in others, 
the particular milk delivered might be free from the infecting 
organisms although part of the same general supply ; in others, 
the consumers might be insusceptible from natural or acquired 
immunity. In many, also, the infected milk might be con- 
sumed, but infection not occur owing to the organisms being 
killed in the body before they had opportunity to infect. 
In other words, when the difficulties of individual infection 



74 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

and the varying degrees of susceptibility are considered, it is 
obvious that only a portion, possibly a small proportion, of 
those taking the incriminated supply will be specifically infected. 

A difficulty which has to be taken into account is the 
very considerable interchange of milk which takes place in 
large towns and elsewhere. This may make the task of com- 
parison between the incidence of infection and the individual 
milk supply a difficult one. Cases which appear to be sup- 
plied with milk from quite a different source, and so to be 
etiologically unconnected with the outbreak, may be in fact 
connected, since the dairyman supplying them may have 
reinforced his own deficient supply with a churn of the 
implicated milk. Very careful and detailed inquiry is some- 
times required to unravel these byways of infection. 

The cases due to secondary infection have to be carefully 
traced and recorded separately in unravelling the epidemic- 
logical features of any outbreak. 

2. The Outbreaks are explosive in Character. Their ex- 
plosive nature is a characteristic feature of both milk and 
water outbreaks. Sometimes they are extremely explosive, 
the bulk of the cases starting the disease within one or two 
days of one another. The epidemiological picture will vary 
somewhat according as to whether the specific infection is a 
single one, for example at one milking, or is in operation either 
continuously or intermittently for a number of days. 

In many milk-borne outbreaks there is but little secondary 
infection, and the decline is usually very sudden on removal 
of the source of infection. On the other hand, long-continued 
infection with continuous notification of cases without abrupt 
decline has been a feature of a good many milk outbreaks. 

3. The Incidence falls upon the Milk-consuming part of 
the Community. Social. The poorer classes consume but 
little milk compared with their richer neighbours. Milk- 
spread outbreaks show a higher incidence upon the classes 
who habitually consume more milk. 

A striking example of the relationship between social 
position and attack incidence is furnished by Sir "William 
Power in his report upon the milk-borne scarlet fever at 
Wimbledon 1 in 1887, as shown in the following table: 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1886, p. 327. 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 



75 



Number of Houses supplied (Mid invaded amongst Customers 
of the Incriminated Milk. 



Rateable Values 
from 10 to 15. 


Rateable Values 
from 16 to 30. 


Rateable Values 
from 31 to 40. 


Rateable Values 
above 41. 


Houses 
supplied. 


Houses 
invaded. 


Houses 
supplied. 


Houses 
invaded. 


Houses 
supplied. 


Houses 
invaded. 


Houses 
supplied. 


Houses 
invaded. 


44 


17 


120 


73 


58 


40 


55 


43 


= 38-6 per cent. = GO'S per cent. 


= 68-9 per cent. 


= 78-2 per cent. 



Age. This is very variable in the different epidemics. 
Children are naturally greater milk consumers, but this 
is sometimes counterbalanced by the fact that a considerably 
greater proportion drink their milk boiled than do adults. 
The habits as regards milk-boiling vary greatly, and, if the 
outbreak chiefly affects the socially well-to-do, may quite alter 
the age incidence and show a higher adult attack rate. 

Sex. The incidence is considerably higher on females 
than on males, presumably because they are greater milk- 
drinkers. For example, Davies in the 1897 typhoid epidemic 
at Clifton found that 67 per cent of the total number 
attacked were women. In the sore - throat outbreak at 
Colchester the writer found that, out of 74 cases in which the 
age and sex was recorded, 13 were adult males, 43 adult 
females, and 18 children. The small proportion of children 
was due to the good social position of the affected, and the 
resulting high percentage of cases in which the milk was 
boiled. 

4. The Milk Drinkers in particular Houses are attacked. 
In many outbreaks careful individual inquiries will show that 
those attacked are milk consumers, and those who do not 
drink milk, or only when cooked, escape. This is valuable 
corroborative evidence. 

A typical example which the writer personally observed 
in the Colchester outbreak mentioned above is the following : l 
"In one family the lady of the house, who drank a glass of 
raw milk daily for lunch, was first attacked ; subsequently both 

1 Public Health, 1905, vol. xviii. p. 14. 



7 6 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



the maid-servants, one of them being the nurse, were attacked, 
both of whom drank raw milk ; while the head of the house, 
who only drank milk in tea, escaped, as did also the two 
children (eight months and four years), receiving all their milk 
boiled ; and this in spite of the fact that the nurse, whose sore- 
throat was typical, but not severe, continued to look after 
them." 

A more detailed illustration of the relationship between 
the incidence of attack and the amount of milk consumed is 
furnished by Sir William Power in the outbreak of milk- 
borne scarlet fever at Wimbledon in 1887. He gives the 
following table : l 



Amount of particular ; <r Q f , 
Milk consumed daily j w ' 
per Household. 


Number 
invaded. 


Invaded T , , 

STTSSf. ~ 


Number 
invaded. 


Invaded 
per cent 
of Total. 


' 
Less than 1 pint . 81 


39 


48-1 315 


68 


21-6 


1 to H pints . 102 62 61'7 472 


162 


34-3 


2 to 2|- . 43 32 76-7 207 


87 


42-0 


3 or more pints . 48 


39 81-2 362 


169 


46-6 



DIPHTHERIA OUTBREAKS SPREAD BY MILK 



As long 

o 



as 1878 Power adduced evidence that an 
outbreak of diphtheria in Kilburn and St. John's Wood, 
London, was spread by milk. Since that date many milk- 
borne epidemics of this disease have been recorded, although 
the total is smaller than of milk outbreaks of scarlet fever or 
typhoid fever. 

Trask 2 has summarised 51 such diphtheria outbreaks 
(including those collected by Busey and Kober and by Hart) 
spread by milk, while there are, no doubt, a very large 
number which have never been recorded. 

The outbreaks summarised by Trask show a very variable 
case-mortality, being for some as low as 1/5 per cent and for 
others as high as 30 per cent, or even higher. The epidemics 
with a high case-mortality are for the most part not recent, 
.and refer to pre-antitoxin times. The highest case-mortality 



1 Loc. cit. 
2 Bulletin No. 41, Public Health and Marine Hospital Service, 1908, p. 32. 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 77 

for a large epidemic appears to be that at Enfield in 1887 
recorded by Bruce -Low, in which there were forty -eight 
deaths with a case-mortality of 22*5 per cent. Excluding all 
outbreaks in which the deaths are not clearly set out, the case- 
mortality in the epidemics recorded by Trask, taking them 
all together, was 16'1 per cent. From these figures it would 
appear that the case-mortality does not materially differ from 
that of epidemics spread by means other than milk. 

In a number of the outbreaks it has not been possible to 
find the source of infection of the milk. In the few rare cases 
recorded in Chapter VI. the cow has been implicated. In the 
majority of cases in which the source has been ascertained it 
has been traced to a person handling the milk who has either 
had a slight attack of diphtheria, is in charge of or brought 
into close contact with a sufferer from diphtheria, or who is 
a diphtheria carrier. The outbreaks in which a diphtheria 
carrier is the source of the infection are sometimes difficult to 
prove, and probably a number of the earlier recorded epi- 
demics in which the cause could not be traced, and for which 
bacteriological facilities were not available, were due to infection 
of the milk from either slight and unrecognised cases, or from 
true carriers. 

Apparently no outbreaks have been traced from infected 
water or other indirect sources. 

The followiug little outbreak illustrates the importance 
of bacteriology in tracing milk epidemics. It is recorded 
by Chase. 1 Two children in a milkman's house developed 
diphtheria, and were removed to hospital and isolated there. 
All the members of the household were examined bacteriologic- 
ally, but no diphtheria bacilli were found. Three weeks later 
cases of diphtheria began to appear among the customers in 
Brookline (Massachusetts). In Brookline only seven or eight 
families used his milk, and cases of diphtheria developed in 
four of these. Cases were also found in Boston receiving his 
milk. On re-examiriation of the inmates of the milkman's 
house and others handling the milk virulent diphtheria bacilli 
were found in the throats of three men. Up to this time two 
of them had been employed in milking the cows. 

The following is a good example of a milk-spread diphtheria 

1 Journ. Mass. Assoc. Board of Health, 1900, p. 5. 



7 8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

outbreak, while it also illustrates the value of bacteriological 
examinations of all handling milk. The outbreak was in 
certain parts of Sydney, Australia, and is reported by W. G-. 
Armstrong. 1 The cause of this outbreak of some 40 cases 
was a man, A. M., who was taken into the employment 
of the milkman (S. M.) to milk and to distribute the 
milk. A few days before starting his work he had suffered 
slightly from sore throat accompanied by swollen glands in 
the neck. Starting the day after his employment by S. M. 
and continuing for twelve days, cases of diphtheria sickened 
amongst S. M.'s customers, and ceased two days after he was 
recognised as having diphtheria bacilli in his throat. In all, 
this man and six other persons residing in the dairy premises 
were found to be harbouring Klebs-Loffler bacilli in their 
throats. None of these persons were appreciably indisposed, 
but a culture of the organisms from A. M.'s throat was proved 
virulent to guinea-pigs. 

Four days before these examinations took place G-. P., 
a milker employed by S. M., left the latter 's employment, and 
went to work as a milker for another milk-vendor (A. B.). 
He had been specially associated with A. M. while at the 
former dairy. Four days after starting to work for A. B. a 
case of diphtheria occurred among A. B.'s customers. In all, 
5 cases occurred among the customers within a week. After 
being in A. B.'s employment for six days G. P. returned to 
S. M.'s dairy in the same capacity of milker and milk dis- 
tributor. His return started further diphtheria cases amongst 
the customers of S. M., 4 persons being affected. Four days 
after his return to S. M. diphtheria bacilli were found in his 
throat, and he was excluded from the dairy. 

Apparently in neither of the infecting persons could a 
diagnosis of diphtheria have been made without bacteriological 
means. 

The identification of the diphtheria bacillus in milk is a 
matter of great difficulty, and this bacillus, so far as the writer 
has been able to ascertain, has only been isolated from milk 
on the following occasions : 

Bowhill ~ isolated a virulent diphtheria bacillus from milk 

1 Public Health, 1909, xxii. p. 149. 
- Veterinary Record, 1899, xi., April. 



v ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 79 

from a source suspected to have caused an outbreak of 
diphtheria at Senghenydd in South Wales. There were about 
39 cases, and although the epidemic was undoubtedly spread 
by milk, there was no evidence as to how the milk became 
infected. 

Eyre l isolated diphtheria bacilli from milk causing an 
extensive outbreak of diphtheria in a school. He obtained 
the diphtheria bacilli from both the cream and the centri- 
fugalised sediment, being especially numerous in the former. 
Two distinct types of diphtheria bacilli were present, while 
their virulence was fully confirmed by guinea-pig inoculations. 

Klein 2 isolated a virulent diphtheria bacillus in one out 
of one hundred samples of London milk submitted to him. 
No information was available to show the source of the bacillus, 
and whether its presence was associated with human cases of 
diphtheria. 

Dean and Todd 3 isolated diphtheria bacilli from milk, and 
from lesions on the udders of cows. The outbreak is fully 
described on page 112. 

Marshall 4 isolated the diphtheria bacillus from a sample 
of milk supposed to be associated with a little outbreak of 
diphtheria consisting of 2 cases. The bacillus isolated was fully 
virulent. It was not found possible to ascertain how the milk 
became infected. 

TYPHOID FEVER SPREAD BY MILK 

Examination of public health literature shows that typhoid 
fever has been spread by milk in a very large number of cases. 
For example, Trask 5 has compiled a list of 3 1 7 outbreaks, 
of which 179 were collected by himself and 138 previously 
by Hart and by Busey and Kober. These cases form but a 
portion of the recorded outbreaks, the writer, for example, 
being acquainted with reports of many epidemics of typhoid 
fever spread by milk, scattered in different journals which are 
not included in Trask's summary. In addition, a large 

1 British Medical Journal. 1899, p. 586. 

2 Journ. of Hygiene, 1901, i. p. 85. 

3 Ibid., 1902, ii. p. 194. 

4 Ibid., 1907, vii. p. 32. 

6 Bulletin No. ^/, Public Health and Marine Hospital Service, Washington, 
1908, p. 21. 



8o MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

number of milk-borne typhoid fever outbreaks are never 
reported at all, or only recorded in the annual reports of 
medical officers of health, and as such not readily accessible. 

The importance of milk as a vehicle for the spread of 
enteric fever has been greatly underestimated. As an illustra- 
tion of its importance it may be mentioned that Harrington l 
records that out of 18 local epidemics of typhoid fever 
investigated within two years by the Massachusetts State 
Board of Health 14 were milk-borne, only 3 being water- 
borne, and 1 of unknown method of spread. 

The first outbreak traced to milk appears to have been at 
Penrith in the autumn of 1857, and recorded by Taylor. In 
this outbreak there were cases of typhoid fever in the cottage 
of the milkman who supplied the infective milk. 

It is known that a good many cases of enteric fever are of 
the ambulatory type, and continue about, and not infrequently 
at work until a comparatively late stage of the disease, and after 
they have been infectious for several weeks. We also know 
that in recovered cases the bacilli may persist for very long 
periods in the excretions of the patients, and that such persons, 
although cured and apparently in perfect health, yet are 
passing typhoid bacilli in their evacuations, and in consequence 
are dangerous potential sources of infection. There are also a 
not inconsiderable number of cases of quite unrecognised 
typhoid fever, with symptoms so mild that the true nature 
of the condition is not suspected, and these cases also may 
act as carriers of infection. If these facts are associated 
with the known carelessness of certain classes in regard to 
personal cleanliness and the disposal of excreta, and the fact 
that flies undoubtedly can infect milk with typhoid bacilli 
from excreta, the frequency of milk-borne typhoid fever out- 
breaks is readily understood. 

The actual ways in which milk may become infected with 
typhoid bacilli are very numerous, but the methods of spread 
illustrated below include all the chief channels of infection. 

1. Example of a Case of Typhoid Fever at the Farm not 
properly isolated. At Clydach, Glamorgan, "W. Williams 2 
recorded an outbreak of 16 cases of enteric fever amongst 

1 New York Medical Journal, 1907, Ixxxv. p. 696. 
2 Public Health, 1902, xiv. p. 650. 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 81 

the consumers of a particular milk supply. The eldest son 
of the farmer contracted typhoid fever from an unknown 
source. He was ill between two and three weeks before the 
condition was correctly diagnosed. Evidence was not forth- 
coming as to precisely how the milk became infected, but the 
milk was brought into the farmhouse before distribution. 

2. Example of Infection of the Milk after leaving the Farm 
from an unrecognised Case of Typhoid Fever. Harrington 1 
reported an extensive outbreak in Jamaica Plain, Massa- 
chusetts, U.S.A., 410 cases of typhoid fever being notified 
during a period of about six weeks. Of these cases 348 
primary and 23 secondary proved to be in families supplied by 
two milkmen (purveyors not farmers), F. and Q. The cases 
were nearly equally divided between the two milkmen. There 
were only 29 cases in which a history of the use of their milk 
could not be obtained, and 7 in which there was a possibility 
that the victims had on some one or another day drunk it. 
The investigations undertaken showed that the source of con- 
tamination of the F. milk was the milkman F. himself. F. 
died of typhoid fever on April 10, and the autopsy showed 
that he must have suffered from typhoid fever as early as 
March 20. On or about that date he consulted his doctor, 
who concluded that F. was merely tired and overworked. From 
that time until April 2, although feeling ill, he attended to his 
daily work, which included the general handling of his milk. 
On April 2 a diagnosis of typhoid fever was made, and he 
took to his bed. The first case amongst his customers was 
notified March 31, 1908, and cases continued to be reported 
until May 15. 

The infection of Q. is not so clear, but both F. and Q. 
obtained their milk from the same dairy, and it is certain that 
there was the greatest possibility of an interchange of cans 
between F. and Q., for it was the custom of each to return 
the empty cans washed but not sterilised. 

3. Examples of Outbreaks spread by Typhoid Carriers. 
One of the earliest outbreaks spread in this way which has 
been recorded is that described by Jamieson 2 in Melbourne, 
and dealing with a little outbreak of 6 cases. The dairy- 
keeper was in hospital for an ordinary severe attack of 

1 Public Health, 1908, xxii. p. 19. 2 Ibid., 1902, xiv. p. 655. 

G 



82 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

typhoid fever, the onset of his attack being December 1. 
The cases amongst his customers were all in March, and 
followed his return to work at the dairy. It is interesting to 
note that this milkman supplied 154 households, that it was 
found that in most instances the milk was scalded before 
delivery, but that 22 householders preferred to obtain the 
milk fresh. All the cases outside the dairy occurred among 
persons belonging to these households. The dairyman infected 
the milk fully three months after the beginning of his illness. 

The Brentry outbreak, carefully worked out by Dr. Davies l 
(M.O.H., Bristol), is another illustration of a carrier -spread 
epidemic. The Brentry Inebriate Eeformatory, Bristol, con- 
tained 240 inmates and 24 resident officers. Typhoid fever 
first appeared in 1906. The water supply was good, and 
there were no drainage defects. ~No cases of typhoid fever 
existed in the neighbourhood. In September 1906 a kitchen 
helper developed typhoid fever, and in November 3 further 
cases occurred. All 3 cases received an allowance of milk, 
thus suggesting carriage by milk. Fresh cases occurred in May 
1907, continuing through July, August, September, October, 
and November in small groups and at varying intervals. In 
November 1906 a milk steriliser had been installed, but the 
1907 evidence was still stronger against the milk as the 
cause. There were evidently present opportunities of con- 
tamination after sterilisation. 

Inquiry in November 1907 showed that an inmate em- 
ployed as cook and dairymaid (Mrs. H.) had suffered in 
January 1901 from a severe attack of typhoid fever, from 
which she had apparently recovered. She was admitted to 
Brentry, April 1906, and was employed in kitchen work up to 
October 13, 1906, when she was also entrusted with the 
dairy work, which she continued to do up to November 1907. 

The milk, after sterilisation, was stored in the dairy, whence 
it was measured out for the various " villages " by means of a 
hand dipper. All the milk passed through her hands. 

Mrs. H. was absolutely excluded on November 13 from all 
kitchen and dairy work, and the last case occurred on Nov- 
ember 25, twelve days after her isolation commenced. The 
institution remained free from typhoid fever subsequently. 

1 Royal Society of Medicine Proceedings, Epidemiological Section, April 1908. 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 83 

On November 18, 1907, the blood of Mrs. H. gave a 
positive reaction to Widal's test, but typhoid bacilli were not 
found in the urine or faeces when examined, November 18 
and 29. On December 20 typhoid bacilli were isolated from 
her excreta. 

Between September 1906 and the end of November 1907 
28 cases of typhoid fever occurred at Brentry. Of the 11 
female inmates attacked 3 were employed in the kitchen, 2 
as dining-room maids, and 3 in the tea-house, all having 
access to milk. The 3 other female inmates attacked were 
in receipt of a daily extra supply of one pint of milk, as they 
were nursing. They were the only inmates receiving this 
additional supply. The baby (hand-fed) of one of these three 
women was also attacked. Practically all the male cases also 
had access to milk. 

4. An Example of Infection from contaminated Milk Cans. 
An outbreak * of typhoid fever occurred in Somerville and 

Cambridge, Massachusetts, in the autumn of 1907. There 
were 61 cases, and most of them obtained milk directly or in- 
directly from the same dealer. Investigation of the dairies 
from which the milk supply was derived showed that to one 
or more of them were sent cans from a place where milk 
was bottled, and these cans were washed by a man who 
was nursing a sufferer from enteric fever. He was uncleanly 
in his habits and very careless in his work, and it is prob- 
able that infective material from the person whom he nursed 
was conveyed by his hands directly into the cans and into the 
milk. 

5. An Example of Infection from specifically polluted Water 
used for Dairy Purposes. In a considerable number of milk- 
borne typhoid fever outbreaks the source of infection of 
the milk has been almost certainly specifically infected water 
used either for washing the cans or occasionally for direct 
addition as an adulterant to the milk. Complete proof cannot 
be furnished owing to the extreme difficulty of isolating the 
typhoid bacillus from water, but this does not at all invalidate 
the other accumulated evidence. The following is a good 
example of this method of infection, while it is given in some 
detail as illustrating the valuable graphic method of recording 

1 Public Health, 1908, xxi. p. 2. 



84 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

introduced by Davies l (M.O.H., Bristol) who investigated and 
described the outbreak. 

The epidemic occurred in Clifton, Bristol, and was extensive, 
the number of cases being 244. The evidence implicating 
the inilk supplied from a particular farm (Farm X.) is very 
complete. Three particular supplies (X., Y., Z.) were found 
to be implicated (see Chart). The milk from Farm X. was 
met by the purveyor and distributed direct from the churn 
to the customers without its going to any dairy. Any milk not 
used on the round was, however, returned to the branch dairy, 
and sold to casual customers. Before the 26th of September 
(when the big schools reopened) the supply was sufficient to 
serve two districts the low level and the high level but 
after this date the supply was confined to the high-level 
district. On these two rounds 56 houses were supplied and 
31 were attacked (55*3 per cent), while 114 cases resulted, or 
more than 2 cases per house. The inmates of these houses 
numbered 453, so that 25'1 per cent were attacked. 

Milkman Y. started with a pure supply, but before entering 
the city met the X. cart, and occasionally took a supple- 
mentary supply from the churn consigned to Clifton. After 
receiving this supplementary supply he supplied milk which 
yielded 8 cases outside Clifton, and within the city supplied 
40 houses, of which 18 were attacked (45 per cent); 48 cases 
resulted from these 40 houses, or more than 1 case per house. 
The inmates of these houses numbered 308, so that 15 '5 per 
cent were attacked. 

The other implicated supply, Z., was distributed in Clifton 
on three rounds. Two of these rounds were entirely innocent 
of cases, and the third round was, with one exception (a servant 
who lived close to, and admits to frequently obtaining casual 
supplies from, the branch dairy to which unused X. milk was 
returned), also free from cases up to a certain point, but beyond 
this point cases occurred with marked frequency (see Chart). 
It was found by plotting the routes on a map that at the very 
corner where this change from freedom to infection occurred, 
Z.'s round met that of the X. supply, and Z. admitted that he 
was in the habit, when running short, of obtaining at this 
point supplementary supplies from X. After this, cases com- 

1 Trans, of the Epidemiological Society of London, 1897-98, xvii. 78. 



CITY OF BRISTOL. 

DIAGRAM EXPLAINING THE IMPLICATION OF 3 MlLK ROUNDS BY 

POLLUTED MILK COMING TO CLIFTON. 

1897. 




ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 85 

menced at the very next house he supplied, and continued with 
considerable frequency along his route. After adding the X. 
milk 16 houses were supplied and 8 were attacked (50 per 
cent), while 22 cases resulted. 

In all, out of 244 cases, 234 (95*9 per cent) were supplied 
with the infected milk. 

Dr. Davies made careful investigations as to the precise 
source of the infection of the X. milk. It was found that at 
the X. farm a stream known as the " Ashton Brook " flowed 
through the farm and close to the farm buildings. By the 
side of this stream, at a distance of only a few feet from it, 
was a pump drawing water from a shallow well, and used for 
all purposes of domestic or dairy use. The analytical data 
showed that the pump-water was probably supplied from the 
stream, and, as Davies remarks, " The conditions at the farm 
were such that, given specific pollution of the brook, similar 
infection of the pump-water was bound to occur, and the use 
of this for any dairy purposes was evidently fraught with the 
gravest danger." Inspection of the course of the Ashton Brook 
showed that it formed practically the main sewer of the 
straggling village of Long Ashton, which extends for a distance 
of a mile or more along the main road. 

It was possible to go further and find the probable cause 
of the outbreak. A farm labourer was found who had suffered 
from an illness of two weeks' duration in September, whose 
blood, examined subsequently, gave a positive Widal reaction, 
and who had, therefore, almost certainly had an attack of 
typhoid fever. The man worked where he could have polluted 
the brook, while the dates of the cases forming the outbreak 
showed that the milk was probably infected between the middle 
and the end of September. He was the probable cause of the 
specific brook contamination, and, through this water, of the 
milk. 

It has been suggested that milk-borne outbreaks of typhoid 
fever might be caused from the cows drinking water con- 
taminated with typhoid bacilli, the bacilli being excreted into 
the milk. In the light of present-day knowledge this source 
of infection may be dismissed as non-existent. It is a quite 
possible source of infection that cows standing to drink in 
sewage -polluted water may contaminate their udders with 



86 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

typhoid bacilli and so mechanically infect the milk. In one 
typhoid fever outbreak spread by milk, inquired into by the 
writer, this source of infection seemed a likely one, as un- 
doubtedly the cows supplying the specifically infected milk 
had been in the habit of standing in a stream (and drinking 
its water) polluted with the sewage effluent of a large town 
containing at the time cases of typhoid fever. Further inquiry, 
however, detected the presence of an unrecognised case of 
enteric fever amongst those handling the rnilk, and this case 
was probably the source of infection. 

The typhoid bacillus is said to have been isolated from 
milk on a number of occasions, but in nearly all the proofs 
advanced in favour of the identity of the isolated bacilli with 
B. typliosus would not now (in the light of present knowledge 
as to pseudo-forms) be deemed sufficient to establish the 
contention, and must be accepted with reservation. 

Shoemaker l has reported an interesting means of infection, 
and claims to have isolated the typhoid bacillus in connection 
with an outbreak of milk-spread typhoid fever in Philadelphia 
in 1906. It was spread from a certain dairy, and in regard 
to this he remarks : " The son was convalescing from typhoid 
fever and was filling the milk bottles from a tank by siphonage, 
starting the now by sucking with the mouth at one end of the 
tube. A culture made from this end of the tube revealed 
many typhoid bacilli." He also stated that " a culture made 
from the milk proved the presence of the typhoid bacillus in 
it." The facts as to the means of spread are very interesting, 
but since the report gives not the slightest evidence or informa- 
tion as to the characters of the so-called typhoid bacilli, their 
presence cannot be accepted as proved. 

SCARLET FEVER SPREAD BY MILK 

The number of recorded outbreaks of scarlet fever spread 
by milk is large, while undoubtedly numerous outbreaks are 
unrecorded. Trask has collected information in regard to 125 
such epidemics, while the writer has notes of a large number 
recorded in the literature not included in Trask's summary. 
The sources through which the milk becomes infected with the 

1 Journ. Amcr. Med. Assoc.. May 1907, p. 1748. ' 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 87 

organisms of scarlet fever are varied, but all the means of 
infection in the recorded outbreaks fall under one or other of 
the following headings : 

1 . From a recognised case of scarlet fever insufficiently isolated 
from direct or indirect contact with the milk. 

2. From an unrecognised case of scarlet fever amongst those 
coming into direct contact with the milk. 

3. Through the infection of milk vessels, bottles, etc., with the 
specific organism of scarlet fever. The place of infection may be 
anywhere in the course of passage of the milk to the consumer. 

4. From specifically infected or infective cows. 

In nearly all the outbreaks in which the actual means of 
infection have been traced the milk has been infected directly 
from a human source, recognised or unrecognised. The question 
of bovine scarlet fever will be discussed in Chapter VI. As 
illustrations of the other ways of spread the following may 
be given. 

1. Mussen 1 reported an outbreak of 59 cases of scarlet 
fever in Liverpool in 1904. Between January 30 and 
February 6, 16 cases of scarlet fever were notified in a 
suburban district which had previously been comparatively 
free from the disease, and on investigation the only circum- 
stance in common was the milk supply. One of the dairy- 
man's children was found to have been ill, January 16 or 17, 
was kept in bed for a few days, then allowed to come down- 
stairs about a week previous to the notification of the first 
case. No medical man was called in. When examined 
February 6, there was slight oedema of feet and ankles, and 
copious desquamation from hands and feet, showing clear 
evidence of recent scarlatina. The child was removed to 
hospital February 6, and other precautions were taken. A 
number of persons were attacked after this date, but none 
after February 10 in houses not previously invaded. In 
other words, there were no fresh centres of invasion after four 
days from the child's removal to hospital. The cows were 
examined by a veterinary surgeon and found to be healthy. 

2. Walford, 2 medical officer of health, Cardiff, reported an 
interesting outbreak of milk-spread scarlet fever in that city 

1 Public Health, 1904, xvi. p. 687. 
2 Annual Report, Cardiff, 1907. 



88 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

which illustrates a very common method of infection. The 
outbreak occurred in May 1907, and consisted of 37 cases. 
Twenty of the persons attacked were regular customers of 
a milk-dealer, W. E., who kept no' cows but obtained the 
greater part of his milk -supply from a farmer, E. J., in the 
surrounding rural district, and who supplied no other dealers 
or persons but W. E. Out of the 238 houses supplied with 
the infected milk 18 were infected, or 7 '5 per cent as com- 
pared with 0'2 per cent amongst the houses in those districts 
supplied with milk from other sources. The outbreak at 
once ceased when the supply from the farm was stopped. 
The twenty cows on the farm were inspected by a veterinary 
surgeon, who stated that they were all in good health. When 
the farm was visited it was found that the farmer, E. J., had 
recently suffered from a slight sore throat, arid his niece had in 
the early part of May also suffered from sore throat, and had 
been confined to bed for two days. No rash was admitted to 
have been noticed in either case, and a doctor was not called 
in. Both the farmer and his niece took an active part in 
milking and attending to the cows. The daughter of the farmer 
E. J. was notified as suffering from scarlet fever May 23. 

It was subsequently found that shortly before the outbreak 
several cases of scarlet fever had occurred amongst children 
living in the village in which the milk purveyors lived, and 
that these cases were imperfectly isolated. It is probable that 
the niece derived her infection in this way, subsequently 
infecting the milk. 

3. Eobertson l recorded an outbreak of over 40 cases of 
scarlet fever due to the contamination of milk in a milk-shop. 
The premises were badly constructed in that the shop com- 
municated directly at the rear, by means of a short passage, 
with a servant's bedroom and the kitchen. Infection was 
derived from the woman of the house, who was suffering from 
a sore throat, and who was an unrecognised case of scarlet 
fever. She infected her two children, a week after the onset 
of her sore throat, with undoubted scarlet fever. With the 
removal of the mother to hospital the epidemic suddenly 
declined. While she was ill and suffering from sore throat 
she served the customers coming to the shop for milk. 

1 Public Health, 1905, xvii. p. 445. 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 89 

Outbreaks of scarlet fever spread by milk are not in- 
frequently milder in character than those spread by direct 
contact or other agencies. There would also appear to be less 
tendency to spread by infection of secondary cases. 

The occurrence of cases of an anomalous character has been 
a feature in several epidemics. Indeed in some epidemics 
spread by milk a number of the cases have shown so few of 
the symptoms of scarlet fever that, apart from their obvious 
relationship to other and undoubted cases, a certain diagnosis 
of scarlet fever would not be possible. The outbreak of sore 
throat and scarlet fever spread by milk at Brighton in 1902, 
reported by Newsholme, 1 may be mentioned as an illustration. 
In this outbreak there was a considerable number of known 
cases of sore throat without any scarlatina rash, while there 
were probably a number unnotified. Dr Newsholme asks the 
question, " Were all the sore throats as well as the officially 
notified cases scarlatinal, or were two infections operating ? 
The gradually increasing virulence of the cases, first sore 
throats, then sore throats mixed with undoubted scarlet fever, 
then a group composed entirely of cases of severe scarlet 
fever, supports the first view." " If the same contagium 
caused the sore throats and the attacks of scarlet fever it is 
evident that infected milk may carry the scarlatinal contagium 
in such an attenuated form or in such minute amount that it 
is not capable of causing all the phenomena of scarlet fever." 

The same peculiarity had been previously recorded by 
Buchanan 2 in an outbreak in Kensington in 1875 in which 
12 persons were attacked with scarlet fever and 6 others 
with sore throat or with sore throat and other symptoms 
resembling scarlatina. This outbreak was due to infected 
cream. 

SORE THROAT AND OTHER SEPTIC CONDITIONS SPREAD 
BY MILK 

Compared with scarlet fever, enteric fever, and other noti- 
fiable diseases the number of sore throat and similar outbreaks 
spread by milk which have been recorded is very small. 
This may be due to their actual rarity, but it is highly 

1 Journ. of Hygiene,, 1902, ii. p. 150. 
2 Report of the Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1876, vii. p. 72. 



90 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . v 

probable that a large proportion of such outbreaks are 
unrecognised and unrecorded. It has been pointed out 
that the part played by milk in the spread of scarlet 
fever, diphtheria, etc., was for a long time unrecognised 
or denied. It was not until the notification of these 
diseases was uniformly enforced that the importance of milk 
as a vehicle of infection was admitted and proved. If 
sore throat and similar conditions were notifiable it cannot be 
doubted, but that the number of known outbreaks of these 
conditions would be greatly increased. The subject being 
somewhat obscure and its importance underrated, a summary 
of all the recorded outbreaks which the writer has been able 
to trace is given in the addendum at the end of the present 
chapter. While all or nearly all these outbreaks may 
reasonably be said to have been spread by milk, in many 
of them the means by which the milk became infected is 
not proved. In some the source of infection was apparently 
from a person brought in contact with the milk while suffering 
from sore throat. In others the evidence points to the milk 
having been infected from a cow or cows suffering from sores 
on the teats, mastitis, or other septic conditions. The 
possibility of cows so infected specifically infecting the milk 
is fully discussed in Chapter VI. 



ADDENDUM 

I. MILK-BORNE SORE THROAT OUTBREAKS 

(1) ABERDEEN [1], 1881. About 300 cases with three deaths. 
Symptoms characteristic. Sudden onset, with severe rigor or series 
of rigors followed by fever. Inflammation of throat and tonsils 
with swelling of the lymphatic glands in the neck and above the 
clavicle. Fever usually subsided after two to three days, leaving 
the patient very weak and prostrate. Outbreak clearly spread by 
milk. The total number of families supplied with milk from the 
incriminated supply was 110, and of these at least 90 families 
were affected. No cases occurred in any families obtaining their 
milk from other sources. Outbreak ceased when supply of milk 
stopped. Outbreak ascribed, on what would now be considered as 
quite insufficient grounds, to the water supply of the dairy. No 
mention made as to the condition of the cows or of any examination 
of, or cases of illness amongst, the milkers. 

(2) RUGBY [2], 1880 (reported by Dr. George Wilson). Over 
100 cases in all. Mostly among the boys at Rugby School. Cases 
of sore throat, but clinical particulars not given. Outbreak clearly 
spread by milk. Sudden onset in the three (out of eight) boarding- 
houses connected with the school supplied from the one milkman ; 
in fifteen out of the thirty-seven families which he also supplied in 
the town there were one or more cases of the disease. All the 
cases were supplied with milk from the one milkman. Onset, 
March 16 and March 17. No cases of suspicious illness on the 
four farms from which the supply was obtained. Wilson came to 
the conclusion that the probable cause was a cow suffering from 
garget on one of the farms. 

(3) DOVER [3], February 1884 (reported by Dr. M. K. Robin- 
son). Within four days 188 persons attacked; in all 205 persons 
affected. Symptoms, those of local inflammation of the throat, 
enlargement of the lymph glands of the neck, and in some cases 
vesicular eruptions. Erysipelas was also met with. Four fatal 
cases. In nineteen out of the forty-two affected streets every 
house supplied by the implicated milkman was invaded, while in the 



92 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

remaining twenty-three affected streets, out of eighty-six houses 
supplied by this milkman fifty-one were invaded by the disease. 
The number of persons attacked in each house stricken averaged 
2 '5 per house. The "nursery," or other special milk, supplied by 
the same milkman was not a cause of infection. The milk was 
obtained from four farms. On one of the farms it was found that 
foot-and-mouth disease had broken out on January 14, and that 
milk from some of the affected cows was delivered to the Dover 
dairyman and distributed, after mixing with the other milk, to his 
customers. Strong confirmatory evidence of the relationship of the 
conditions found on this farm to the outbreak was obtained from 
the fact that on two separate occasions the farmer sold his milk 
and cream to another purveyor, amongst whose customers a second 
simultaneous outbreak occurred. No information given as to illness 
amongst the milkers. 

(4) CRAIGMORE [4], 1890. The number of cases which came 
under medical treatment was about 80. In March and April 
1890. Symptoms were those of marked inflammatory hyperaemia 
and swelling of the throat, enlargement of the submaxillary glands 
and glands of the neck, with high fever and marked constitutional 
disturbance. Some of the cases were complicated with erysipelas. 
Three deaths occurred, all children. The evidence showed that the 
outbreak was spread by the milk from a particular farm. The 
period of incubation was usually three to four days, but occasionally 
two days. In some cases the definite onset of the disease after 
consuming the milk was very striking. For example, a Glasgow 
family went to Craigmore from Glasgow on March 28, and started 
using the milk. On April 1 all the members of the family were 
attacked, including the older children who had returned on March 
31 to Glasgow to school, except two members who remained in 
Glasgow and did not drink the milk. The milk supply was 
stopped on April 2, and the cases seem to have ceased almost 
at once. The outbreak commenced about March 17, but the farm 
was not visited until April 3. The medical officer of health 
was told there was no illness among the people or the cows. On 
further questioning, it was elicited that one of the dairymaids had 
had a sore throat for a few days, but it was so slight that she had 
been away from work for only half a day (March 17), this being 
the same day that the outbreak began in at least three families. 
On April 4, two days after the milk was stopped, erysipelas appeared 
on the face of the farmer. A veterinary surgeon examined all the 
cows and gave a certificate that they were in perfect health and 
condition. It is not clear if he was engaged by the farmer or on 
behalf of the local authority. The milkmaid was suggested as the 
cause of the infection of the milk. Apparently no bacteriological 
investigations were carried out. A cat and a dog belonging to one 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 



93 



of the sufferers, which had been fed a good deal on the implicated 
milk, became very ill at the same time as their owners, and nearly 
died from what the veterinary surgeon who attended them called 
" severe inflammation of the throat." 

(5) FINCHLEY [5], November 1894 (reported by Professor H. 
Kenwood). Total number of cases not known. The first 24 cases 
were explosive in onset, all occurring within forty hours. The 
chief symptom was sore throat, which was not diphtheria, although 
the throats in many sufferers resembled those found in that disease. 
The suspected milk supplied 94 per cent of the total number of 
houses which were infected, but only 17 per cent of the total 
houses in the district. The disease affected persons in good-class 
houses with scarcely an exception. On the whole children were 
not mainly affected. The only source of infection which could be 
found was that there were on the farm supplying the incriminated 
milk three cows evidently out of health, and in each case suffering 
from ulcerations of the teats, while one of the cows had a small 
chronic abscess in the udder. All the throats of those who 
milked the cows were examined by Kenwood and found by him to 
be healthy. 

(6) ANGLESEY [6], February 1897 (reported by Dr. C. Grey- 
Edwards and Mr. W. D. Severn). Fifteen cases. No deaths. 
Symptoms were those of follicular tonsillitis. The evidence im- 
plicating the milk rests upon the fact that all the cases had a 
common milk supply derived from the farm upon which the first 
three cases (two children and a servant) occurred, and that three 
children between two and three years of age escaped apparently 
because they received only boiled milk. The cases occurred between 
February 12 and March 1. The cows were examined some time 
after the end of February (date not given) by a veterinary surgeon, 
who failed to detect anything wrong. When the milk of the 
individual cows was examined, the milk of one contained staphylo- 
cocci and streptococci. While the outbreak may reasonably be 
ascribed to the milk, the evidence supplied does not show the 
cause of infection, whether human or bovine. We are not told if 
the servant on the farm had anything to do with the cows or 
milking utensils. 

(7) SURBITON [7], 1897 (reported by Dr. Coleman). Thirty 
cases at least known, and probably others. Symptoms those of 
sore throat. Cases supplied from one milkman. One of the 
milkers found to be suffering from tonsillitis with suppurating 
whitlows on both hands. 

(8) HACKNEY [8], 1900 (reported by Dr. J. King Warry). 
The disease was prevalent during nearly the whole of April and 
the first week in May. Outbreak extensive; 151 known cases in 
eighty-eight households. The symptoms were those of severe septic 



94 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

sore throat with ulcerated tonsils, enlarged cervical glands, high 
temperature, and great prostration. In all cases convalescence was 
protracted. In one case acute septicaemia supervened, followed by 
acute septic pneumonia and death. There was a marked tendency 
for multiple cases to occur in families, and while no age or sex was 
exempt, a very large number of the sufferers were children. The 
facts ascertained by Dr. Warry (Medical Officer of Health) proved 
conclusively that the vehicle of spread was the milk of a certain 
milk vendor (X.). The returns of cases by medical men showed 
that 138 cases in seventy-five households were supplied with milk 
by X., and the remaining 13 cases with milk by seven other dealers; 
that is, over 85 per cent of the households in which sore throat 
illness occurred were supplied with milk by X. It was shown that 
X. supplied a very much smaller proportion of the houses than 85 
per cent. House-to-house inquiries also showed that the persons 
attacked were those who consumed X.'s milk. There is no evidence 
in the report as to how the milk became infected. The bacterio- 
logical examination threw no light upon the origin of the disease. 
The vendor X. had a few cows of his own, but also received his 
milk from seven different country dealers. The cows of the dairy- 
man were examined by a veterinary surgeon, who found them to be 
in good health. There does not appear to have been any investiga- 
tion or inquiry as regards the outside farms either as to human 
illness on the farms or as to the condition of the cows. 

(9) BRIGHTON [9], November 1901 (reported by Dr. A. 
Newsholme). A small outbreak of sore throat involving 18 cases, 
and followed by a number of cases of scarlet fever. It is not clear 
how far the sore throat cases were aberrant scarlet fever cases, and 
Newsholme considered that some of them were of this nature, 
occurring among girls unprotected by a previous attack of scarlet 
fever. The symptoms were those of sore throat with greyish 
exudation on the tonsils, high temperature, and general constitu- 
tional disturbance. By careful inquiry the outbreak was traced to 
a particular milk supply. The cause of infection appears to have 
been unrecognised cases of infectious sore throat in several families 
connected with the farmer who supplied the milk. The relationship 
was not, however, completely established. When the facts were 
investigated early in December (the cases were mostly in November) 
no evidence of udder disease was found, and fairly frequent 
veterinary inspections of the dairy had been made. 

(10) BEDFORD [10], 1902 (reported by Dr. W. G. Nash). 
The number of cases was 42, occurring in twenty-two families. In 
addition there were some milder cases not medically attended. 
The first case was on June 27. The symptoms were marked 
swelling and redness of the tonsils, fauces, palate, and uvula, with 
exudation on the tonsils, marked constitutional disturbance, and 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 95 

considerable temperature. In every instance the milk was obtained 
from the same dairy, while no cases of sore throat connected with 
a different milk supply were observed. In some families the 
children who drank boiled milk escaped. Nash visited the 
premises, but could obtain no information as to illness amongst 
the cows or milkmen. No examination by him or by a veterinary 
surgeon of the milkers or of the cows appears to have been made, 
and the source of the infection of the milk was not ascertained. 
The bacteriological examinations made of the milk after the 
outbreak were negative. 

(11) LINCOLN [11], May 1902 (reported by Dr. L. W. Darra 
Mair). An explosive outbreak of 168 cases, sufficiently ill to 
require medical treatment, all but 5 of which started between 
May 9 and May 15 inclusive, and all between May 9 and May 19. 
Of 156 sufferers, the age of whom was recorded, 133 were adults 
or children over twelve, and only 23 were under twelve. The 
epidemic came to a sudden termination in spite of the fact that the 
distribution of the suspected milk was not prohibited. All the 
cases were characterised by sore throat, well-marked swelling of 
the tonsils, uvula, and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The 
cervical glands were enlarged. A rash was present in many cases, 
but it was unlike the rash of scarlet fever. Mair concluded, after 
very careful investigation, that the disease was not scarlet fever. 
There were three deaths. No definite secondary cases at all could 
be met with. The outbreak was clearly due to a particular milk 
supply. In the period of five weeks ending May 25, of 199 cases 
of illness associated with sore throat, 168, or 85 per cent, consumed 
the suspected milk, while if the cases which started after May 8, 
when the true epidemic begun, only are considered, the percentage 
of milk consumers is 87. Also the number of houses habitually 
supplied with the suspected milk at the commencement of the 
epidemic was 141 ; and of these no fewer than 85, or 60 per cent, 
were invaded. The incidence of disease was exceptionally heavy 
on households using much milk. The source of infection of the 
milk could not be traced although the most minute inquiries were 
made. No sore throat or other illness could be traced amongst 
those handling the cans or the milk. The cows were examined on 
May 1 4 by a veterinary surgeon at the request of the Town Council, 
and he reported them all healthy, while on May 30 Klein examined 
the cows and found no symptoms of ill-health in any of them. 
Klein and Gordon examined swabbings from 17 of the cases of 
illness. In no instance was the Streptococcus scarlatinae found, but 
in 3 cases a pathogenic yeast was isolated, and it was suggested 
that this was the cause of the outbreak. 

(12) LINCOLN [12], May 1903 (reported by Dr. L. W. Darra 
Mair). There were altogether 56 known cases of illness, and the 



96 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

onset of all was between April 27 and May 7. All the illnesses 
started with sore throat, and 32 were reported as having a scar- 
latiniform rash. The 56 sufferers comprised 18 children under 
twelve and 38 persons over that age. In one house as many as 
14 cases occurred. The diagnosis of the illness in this second 
outbreak again led to differences of opinion, although on this 
occasion the preponderance of opinion was much more in favour of 
scarlatina. At least 8 secondary cases were known. The outbreak 
was in a quite different part of Lincoln to that affected by the 1902 
epidemic, and concerned a different milk supply. Twenty -five 
per cent of the houses supplied with the incriminated milk were 
invaded. The implicated milkman had five cows. Klein examined 
the cows on May 6 and found that two of them exhibited a vesicular 
eruption on the udders and teats somewhat similar to the " Hendon 
disease." No illness was detected among the milkers or their 
households. The bacteriological examination of swabs showed 
neither Streptococcus scarlatinae nor the pathogenic yeast found in 
the first outbreak. 

(13) GUILDFORD [13], 1903 (reported by Dr. R W. C. Pierce). 
Extensive outbreak, cases starting early in the last week in 
September and continuing until the middle of November. The 
chief symptoms were sore throats of different grades of severity, 
but for the most part cases of ulcerated sore throat or follicular 
tonsillitis. In some cases there was marked glandular enlargement, 
while a number were cases of quinsy. Considerable constitutional 
disturbance was present, shown by headache, pains in the back 
and limbs, and fever. In several instances there were joint pains 
after the acute symptoms had subsided. Five cases developed 
erysipelas after the sore throat. A few cases were fatal. A con- 
siderably larger number of adults were affected than young children. 
Information was obtained altogether of ninety - eight infected 
houses, and seventy-six of these were supplied direct by two 
milkmen obtaining their milk from a common source. The 
remaining twenty-two households derived their supply from nine 
other different dealers. With the stoppage of the milk the outbreak 
ceased. The incriminated farm was visited on November 13 by 
Pierce and a veterinary inspector. Of the twenty cows on the farm 
no less than four were affected with mastitis and yielded purulent 
milk. The farmer suffered from quinsy sore throat about the 
middle of September, and had pains in his joints subsequently, and 
was disabled for at least a month. The other members of his family 
also had sore throats. The first cases, as far as is known, occurred 
the last week in September, the illness of the farmer therefore 
probably preceded the outbreak. He occasionally assisted the two 
men at the milking, and in this way he may have infected the 
cows and the milk. The bacteriological investigations showed the 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 97 

presence of streptococci in the milk, and Gordon isolated a 
streptococcus of the pyogenes type virulent to mice. It is prob- 
able that the farmer was the original cause of the outbreak, but 
as infection continued over six weeks, and the farmer could 
only have infected the milk on one or two occasions at the most, 
some continuously acting source of infection must have been 
present. If we assume that this continuous source of infection 
was the diseased cows, and that they were infected from the 
farmer, as Pierce suggests, the course of the outbreak is easily 
explained. 

(14) FINCHLEY [14], 1904 (reported by Professor H. Kenwood). 
An extensive outbreak, lasting from January 16 to January 30 
and involving some 550 persons. The symptoms were those of 
sore throat with enlargement of the submaxillary glands, and 
marked malaise. Considerable temperature in most cases, with 
much prostration. In one or two cases quinsy was present, while 
septic conditions, such as gland abscesses and cellulitis, were met 
with as complications. Kenwood came to the conclusion that the 
outbreak was spread by milk. The cases occurred almost ex- 
clusively amongst the customers of a particular milk supply, but 
exact particulars are not furnished. He also satisfied himself that 
"the employ6s of the infected supply had not been spreading the 
complaint by reason of any one of them suffering from a bad sore 
throat at the period when the outbreak occurred." The precautions 
taken for the safe storage and delivery of the milk were quite 
satisfactory. In regard to the cows, a veterinary examination of 
every cow was made, and " the veterinary expert reported that all 
the animals were in a condition of perfect health, with the exception 
of two cows which had contracted a chill ; the chill had affected 
their udders, causing their milk to become curdled ; and that probably 
these animals had been in this condition for several days prior to 
his inspection on January 27. Both these cows were at once removed 
from the herd." Kenwood gives it as his opinion that "the out- 
break was in all probability due to the two cows which were 
suffering from an obscure condition of ill-health towards the middle 
of January," but he gives no reasons in the report for coming to 
this decision other than those recorded above. The bacteriological 
examination of numerous samples of milk were negative. French, 
one of the medical men in practice at Finchley, gives one very 
interesting item of information. He found that one of the cases, 
complicated with severe facial erysipelas, was markedly improved 
both as regards the erysipelas and the throat symptoms by the 
use of antistreptococcus serum. He then tried the serum in other 
cases, and although they were very intractable to the usual remedies, 
without exception they all improved markedly, the temperature 
falling to normal within twelve hours. Pus examined from the 

H 



9 8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

suppurating glands of one of his cases showed streptococci on 
cultivation in pure growth. 1 

(15) BELVIDERE HOSPITAL, GLASGOW [15], 1904 (reported by 
Dr. A. K. Chalmers). In May 1904, at Belvidere Hospital, 39 
persons were affected ; chiefly nurses, cleaners, and wardmaids. 
The symptoms were those of tonsillitis and were mostly mild. No 
deaths. The illness was traced to milk, and ceased when the milk 
was sterilised. The cases extended over a period of about twenty 
to twenty-five days, half the cases sickening in the week ending 
May 14. On April 23 a new cow had been added to the herd of 
seventy-two cows. Towards the end of April the group of cows to 
Avhich the new cow had first been added began to suffer from a teat 
eruption, and this spread to the other cows. It spread until 30 
per cent of the herd were attacked, the outbreak reaching its height 
about May 6. The hands of four out of eight milkers were affected 
with sores. Chalmers regarded the teat condition as the cause of 
the outbreak. 

(16) PAISLEY [16], October 1904 (reported by Dr. A. Kobb). 
Over 100 cases were known, but there were others which did 
not come under observation. No deaths. The symptoms were 
those of acute throat inflammation with constitutional symptoms. 
Diphtheritic-looking membrane present on the tonsils, sometimes also 
on uvula and soft palate. Malaise, high temperature, and marked 
prostration. The only factor connecting the cases was a common 
milk supply. The burgh veterinary inspector visited the farm late 
in the epidemic, and reported that many of the cows had evidently 
recently suffered from cow-pox the teats showing remains of the 
eruption but had now recovered. No information given as to 
whether there was or had been any illness amongst the milkers. 
Bacteriological examination of throats showed that the outbreak 
was not due to the diphtheria bacillus. 

(17) COLCHESTER [17], April 1905 (reported by Dr. W. G. 
Savage). Outbreak very extensive, probably at least 600 cases, 
and of these over 170 cases known to be under medical treatment. 
The symptoms were those of " septic sore throat." The tonsils and 
other parts of the throat were red and swollen. In some cases 
diphtheritic-like membrane was present, even extending on to the 
soft palate. The submaxillary glands were generally enlarged and 
painful. In no cases were rashes observed. No deaths were re- 
corded. There were few or no secondary cases. Females suffered 

1 French suggests, from these facts, that the cause of the disease Avas 
undoubtedly the Streptococcus mammitis bovi. My investigations have shown 
that the ordinary streptococcus of mastitis is not the Streptococcus pyogenes vcl 
crysipelatosiis, and, therefore, the fact that there was evidence in favour of the 
presence of this latter organism is another link in the chain of evidence demon- 
strating that when cows' udder abnormalities are infectious to man we have 
present an organism, such as Streptococcus pyogenes, Avhich is of human origin. 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 



99 



about three and a half times as much as males, and adults furnished 
three times as many cases as children. The incubation period was 
apparently not longer than two days. The evidence implicating 
a particular milkman's (M.) milk was complete, being derived from 
information supplied by medical men and from house-to-house 
inquiries. The following table shows the relationship of the cases 
attended by medical men, for which particulars were available, and 
the milk supply : 



Milk Supply. 


West side of Town. 


Rest of the Town. 


Households 
attacked. 


Percentage. 


Households 
attacked. 


Percentage. 


M.'s milk . 
From other vendors 


58 
2 


96-6 
3-4 


10 


37-5 
62-5 


60 


... 


... 


... 



The outbreak was nearly confined to the west side, an area not 
including more than 20 to 25 per cent of the population. The 
house-to-house inquiries made in four selected areas showed that 
50 '9 per cent of the houses supplied by M.'s milk were invaded, 
as compared with 6 per cent for the other milk vendors. The 
milkman M. obtained his milk from six farms, and from a 
study of the distribution of the milk to the different milk rounds, 
and the different incidence of the disease on the different rounds, 
it was possible to point to farm B as the offending source of supply. 
All the farms were inspected, but only on farm B were human cases 
of illness or disease amongst the cows met with. Upon this farm 
a cow was found, in a shed with the others, suffering from mastitis 
of one quarter, and which had been noticed to be ill since about 
April 19. The milk of this cow was being added to the milk 
up to the time of visit, April 27. The cessation of the outbreak 
corresponded with the exclusion of the milk of this particular cow. 
Several cases of illness were found on the farm, but the cases were 
coincident with cases in the town. The first illness on the farm 
was that of the farmer himself, who suffered from a severe sore 
throat, which confined him to bed for three or four days. He 
never milked the cows, and said he had very little to do with them. 
The onset of his illness was April 17, a date which coincided with 
other cases in the town. This with other facts renders tit nearly 
certain that he was infected from the milk and was not the source 
of infection of the milk. Five or six other cases occurred amongst 
the farmer's family on the farm, but all began after April 20, 
and all drank the milk. The outbreak started about April 17 



ioo MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

and ceased about April 29, the maximal incidence being on April 
21 and April 22. The bacteriological investigations showed that 
the sore throats were presumably due to streptococci, while no 
diphtheria bacilli were present. The fluid from the mastitis quarter 
of the cow showed abundant streptococci. 

(18) LEITH [18], June to October 1904 (reported by Dr. W. 
Robertson). A long-drawn-out mixed outbreak of diphtheria and 
septic sore throat. The actual diphtheria notifications in con- 
nection with this outbreak were 2 at the end of June, 2 in July, 
5 in August, 9 in September, and the last on October 16. The 
connection of the cases with the incriminated milk supply is not 
clearly set out in the report, but apparently all the diphtheria cases 
had a common milk supply. The relationship of the sore throat 
cases to the milk supply is not established in the report, but ap- 
parently there was a close relationship. An examination of the farms 
failed to find any cases of sore throat or suspected sore throat. Of 
the 45 cows 5 were found by the veterinary inspector to be suffering 
from ulcers on their teats. Drying pustules were found on some of 
the ulcers, and the veterinary surgeon diagnosed the condition as one 
of cow-pox. A further detailed examination a week later showed 
15 cows suffering from ulcerated teats. A dairymaid was affected 
with pustules on her hands, and the farmer's son was also affected. 
Although swabs were taken repeatedly from the ulcers and examined, 
the Klebs-Loffler bacillus was never isolated, although "now and 
again an organism possessing the microscopical and cultural char- 
acteristic of the Klebs-Loffler was detected." They were, however, 
non-pathogenic to animals. 

The above recorded outbreaks are all which the writer has 
been able to find in the British Isles. Foreign literature has not 
been searched, but very few such outbreaks appear to have been 
recorded. The following outbreak at Christiania is of interest. 

(19) CHRISTIANIA [19], 1908 (recorded by Dr. Somme). An 
extensive outbreak which began in almost every case with a sore 
throat. In addition to sore throat with red tonsils and pharynx, 
the usual symptoms were swelling of the glands of the neck and 
high temperature. Complications, chiefly of a pyaemic character,, 
were numerous, but gastro-enteritis and diarrhoea were apparently 
not common. A number of the cases died. Adults were affected 
about three times as commonly as children. The number of cases 
of the epidemic notified was 548, but as notification was voluntary, 
it is probable that the total number was considerably higher. The 
means of spread of the outbreak was quickly traced to the milk 
supplied by one dairy, and thence to a cow with a diseased udder. 
The cow was slaughtered, and a bacteriological examination of the 
abscess found in the udder led to the isolation of streptococci in 
every way identical with the streptococci obtained from patients- 



ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 101 

attacked by the epidemic. The streptococci were long chain forms, 
pathogenic to mice after intraperitoneal injection. 

II. OUTBREAKS OF DIARRHOEA. OR G-ASTRO - ENTERITIS SPREAD 

BY MILK 

Kecords of such outbreaks are even rarer in the literature 
than those of sore throat. The following have been recorded : 

(1) YOULGREAVE [20], (recorded by Dr. Knox, M.O.H., Bakewell, 
E.D.). On Friday, August 28, 1908, upwards of 30 persons were 
seized with violent sickness and diarrhoea. There was also much 
headache and depression, with elevation of temperature (102 104). 
No deaths, On investigation it was ascertained that all the persons 
attacked had their milk from the same dairy, and that a cow calved 
on the previous Sunday (August 23) had her milk added to 
the usual supply on the Wednesday and Thursday, and that all 
the cases occurred within the next day. The cow had been sold 
previous to calving, but was not delivered until the Thursday 
evening. No fresh cases occurred after her removal. The cow 
was believed to have been healthy by the dairyman. No bacterio- 
logical examinations were made. 

(2) ABERDEEN [21], November 1908 (recorded by Dr. Matthew 
Hay). An extensive but circumscribed outbreak. The illness 
usually began with severe headache, shivering, and backache. More 
or less severe vomiting or belching, followed with abdominal pain 
in severe cases. In most cases diarrhoea was present and continued 
for several days. Usually some fever, and in a few cases cramps 
in the legs were complained of. All the cases recovered. Inquiry 
soon showed that it was due to a particular milk supply. For 
example, Hay found within a short street in which the dairy was 
situated nearly 70 cases, all of which, except 2, were supplied 
from the incriminated dairy. In the other houses with a different 
supply, which constituted more than half the total number, there 
were only 2 cases and these were of an ill-defined nature. The 
milk was obtained from 3 farms. On one of these there had been 
a number of cases of illness. The first persons sickened at the 
farm on November 5, while, with one exception, all the illnesses of 
the group investigated in the city commenced on November 6 to 
November 8. Hay attributed the outbreak to the occurrence of 
cases of disease at the farm, which infected the milk. No mention 
is made of the cows, or indeed whether they were examined at all. 

Jensen (Milk Hygiene) mentions the two following outbreaks : 

(3) STOCKHOLM. In Stockholm the members of 9 families 
became ill with nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, fever and weakness, 
together with cramps in the legs. The disease was traced to the 
use of milk from a certain herd. The herd comprised 14 cows, 



102 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . v 

one of which was proved to be affected with mastitis. Two persons 
working in the stable were sick with the same symptoms. 

(4) Lameris and van Harrevelt mention an outbreak of 
diarrhoea among a number of persons in a hospital. The disease 
was traced with comparative certainty to the milk of a herd in 
which several cases of mastitis due to streptococci were found. 
The infection probably came from the use of milk from a cow 
that appeared to have recovered, but whose milk still contained 
streptococci. The milk was used only after being boiled, but the 
boiling was probably imperfectly done. 



REFERENCES TO ADDENDUM 

Brit. Med. Journ., 1881, i. p. 657. 

Ibid., 1881, ii. p. 415. 

Practitioner, 1884, xxxii. p. 467. 

Glasgow Med. Journ., 1894, xxxiv. p. 241. 

Annual Report Medical Officer of Health, Finchley, 1894. 

Brit. Med. Journ. 1897, ii. p. 339. 

Annual lieport of Medical Officer of Health, Surbiton, 1897. 

Ibid., Hackney, 1900, pp. 60-69. 

Journ. of'Hyg., 1902, ii. p. 150. 

Lancet, 1902, ii. p. 1050. 

Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1902-3, p. 190. 

Ibid. p. 213. 

Brit. Med. Journ., 1903, ii. p. 1492; Journ. of State Medicine, 1904, 

p. 595. 

Brit. Med. Journ., 1904, i. p. 602. 
Public Health, 1903-4, xvi. p. 769. 
Ibid., 1904-5, xvii. p. 773. 
Ibi't., 1905-6, xviii. p. 1. 
Ibid., 1904-5, xvii. p. 246. 
Lancet, 1908, June 13, p. 1707. 
Public Health, 1908, xxii. p. 58. 
Public Health , 1910, xxiii. p. 181. 



CHAPTEK VI 

DISEASES OF THE COW (EXCLUDING TUBERCULOSIS) AFFECTING 

THE MILK 

ALTERATIONS in the health of the cow exert a considerable 
influence upon the quality of the milk yielded, and sometimes 
impart to it definite harmful properties. The most important 
disease of the cow affecting the milk is tuberculosis, and this 
condition is considered separately and in detail in the next 
chapter. Excluding this disease the present chapter is con- 
cerned with the part which the cow itself plays as a source 
of disease to man through the milk supply. 

The abnormal cow conditions may be divided into three 
groups : 

I. General systemic disease of the cow without local lesions 
of the milk organs. 

II. General systemic disease of the cow with local lesions 
in or on the udder and teats. 

III. Local affections, with little or no general systemic 
disturbance. 

GROUP I 

Excluding tuberculosis, the chief general diseases which 
have to be considered are the following : 

Anthrax. Although this disease readily affects cows, it is 
generally considered that the danger of anthrax being spread 
by milk is a remote one. The affected animal usually dies 
within a few hours of infection, and, during its short illness, the 
milk secretion is either suppressed or, if present, is abnormal 
in appearance and rapidly decomposes. This is fortunate, since 
the anthrax bacillus has been recovered from the milk of 
infected cows. That the danger from anthrax-infected milk 

103 



io 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAI>. 

is not altogether problematical is shown by a recent out- 
break in Chicago (June-August 1910), when the milk supply 
of that city was seriously endangered by an outbreak of 
anthrax. The disease existed for about sixty days, involving 
twenty farms, and, approximately, 500 cows were exposed to 
the infection ; 8 7 cows died from the disease. The outbreak 
was spontaneous, spread rapidly, and required vigorous efforts 
to prevent its spread. Dairy inspectors from the city were put 
into the district involved, and by strenuous efforts discovered 
and quarantined every farm upon which anthrax was found, 
or was possibly present. All milk on these farms was de- 
stroyed, and great care was taken to prevent the sale of milk 
from infected districts. In consequence of these precautions 
none of the possibly infected milk reached the Chicago con- 
sumer at any time. One of the farmers upon whose place 
anthrax was discovered subsequently became infected with the 
disease and died, but apparently not through the milk. 

Gaertner Infections. Although cows are not infrequently 
infected with one or other member of the Gaertner group of 
bacilli, and widespread outbreaks of food-poisoning have re- 
sulted in consequence of the consumption of the infected 
meat, the writer has been unable to find any records of out- 
breaks due to the consumption of the milk of such animals. 
The probable explanation of this is that, with cows so affected, 
the milk secretion is either stopped or markedly altered. 

Gastro -enteritis. In cows affected with diarrhoea and other 
symptoms of gastro-enteritis, the milk is usually abnormal and 
decomposes rapidly. Such milk is probably liable to produce 
diarrhoea. The only known instance of which the writer can 
find record is that recorded by Follenius and Gaffky, 1 in which 
three persons at Giessen became very ill with malaise, head- 
ache, and diarrhoea after the consumption of raw milk from 
a cow suffering from haemorrhagic enteritis. 

Septic, Conditions. In conditions such as puerperal septic- 
aemia, septic metritis, etc., the milk is sometimes markedly 
altered, and, whether altered or not, no doubt would be 
prejudicial. 

It is also the universal practice to avoid using for human 
consumption the milk of quite freshly calved cows. The 
1 DcutscJic rued. WochenschT. xviii. p. 297. 



DISEASES OF THE COW 105 

milk just after parturition is called colostrum. It is yellow, 
somewhat viscid, with strong odour and acid reaction. Such 
milk if drunk is liable to produce diarrhoea and digestive 
disturbance. 

Malta Fever. Since cows are susceptible to infection with 
the Micrococcus melitensis, and this organism has been found 
in their milk, this disease is one which may be spread by 
cow's milk, but Eyre, 1 in a comprehensive account of the 
disease, does not mention this as an actual known source of 
infection. 

GROUP II 

Of the second group, which comprises general disease of 
the cow, with local lesions on the teat and udder, the two 
commonest conditions are foot-and-mouth disease and cow- 
pox. Bovine scarlet fever may also be included here, but is 
more conveniently considered later with Group III. 

That foot-and-mouth disease in cows may be transmitted 
to man through the milk is attested by a number of cases 
and outbreaks of disease. One of the most interesting is 
the outbreak recorded by Eobinson at Dover in 1884 (see 
page 91). 

Whether cow-pox affects the milk and causes infection 
in man is doubtful The milk of such cows is usually said to 
be unfit for food, but there appears to be little or no evidence 
as to its harmfulness, although the milkers' hands are apt to 
be infected. 

GROUP III 

In this group the essential lesions are in connection with 
the milk-producing organs. They take the form of inflamma- 
tion of the udder (garget or mastitis) and the various con- 
ditions described under the term " ulcerated teats." 

Mastitis in Cows. A well-recognised and not uncommon 
condition in cows. Accurate records as to the extent of its 
prevalence are not available, but the following table for London 
cowsheds, from Sir Shirley Murphy's annual report for 1908, 
gives a good idea of its prevalence : 

1 Article " Maltafieber," Kolle and "Wassermann, 1907. 



io6 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



Summary of the Reports of the Veterinary Inspector for the 
Year 1908 





Jan. 11 


March 16 


May 27 


August 1 


October 5 


Details of Examination. 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 




March 15. 


May 26. 


July 31. 


October 4. 


Dec. 5. 


Total number of cows ex- 












amined .... 


3521 


3283 


3476 


3343 3565 


Affected with disease or de- 












fects of the udder 


230 


223 


213 


213 


258 


Affected with tubercular 












disease of the udder . 


3 


3 


2 


5 


3 


Suspected cases of tubercular 












disease .... 


2 


1 








Subjects of acute mastitis 


23 


39 


27 


"29 


40 


Affected with chronic indura- 










tion of the udder 


7 


13 12 


11 


4 


Atrophy of one or more 












quarters .... 


141 


117 


123 


127 


142 


Injuries, abscesses, simple 












eruptions, strictures, and 












obliterations of milk ducts 


16 


27 


22 


18 


32 


Hypertrophied udders with- 
out induration . 


2 


2 


3 


1 


1 


Giving milk of poor quality 








(dried-off cows) . 


36 


21 


24 22 


36 



This table shows that, taking the mean of the different 
inspections, 0'9 per cent of the cows were at the time of 
inspection suffering from acute mastitis, while 3 '7 per cent 
showed atrophy of one or more quarters. The latter con- 
dition is nearly always due to a previous attack of acute 
mastitis. The results varied somewhat in different years, but 
not very widely, as shown in the following table compiled 
from the annual reports : 

Percentage 



Year. 


Affected with Acute 
Mastitis. 


Atrophy of one or more 
Quarters. 


1904 


2-2 


7-7 


1905 


0-73 


3-9 


1906 


0-57 


3-8 


1907 


0-27 


3 - 7 


1908 


0-9 


3-7 


1909 


0-99 3-03 



DISEASES OF THE COW 107 

Pathological Investigations upon Mastitis in Cows. We 
owe the first definite work upon the bacteriology of this 
condition to Nocard and Mollereau, who in 1884 isolated a 
long chain streptococcus from the udder secretion of ten cows 
suffering from contagious mastitis. Since that date numerous 
investigations have been carried out by Hess and Borgeaud, 
Kitt, Guillebeau, Zschokke, Steiger, Grb'ning, and others. 
These investigators showed that this disease might be set up 
by different organisms. Of these, apart from the chronic 
varieties due to tuberculosis and actinomycosis, the chief 
were streptococci, staphylococci, and varieties of Bacillus coli. 
In all these investigations there is but little differentiation of 
the organisms isolated, and the characters given quite fail ta 
separate them from the saprophytic streptococci and staphylo- 
cocci not only present in manure, sewage, air, etc., but also 
in the milk drawn direct from the udders of perfectly healthy 
cows. They are, further, in no way differentiated from the 
disease-producing streptococci and staphylococci of man, and 
give no assistance in determining how far the conditions 
included under the term " mastitis " may be prejudicial to man. 
The researches of the writer l for the Local Government Board 
seem to be the only pathological investigations which deal 
with this problem, and as the subject is of considerable practical 
importance the following brief summary is included as far 
as it relates to this aspect of the matter. 

Out of 36 cases of mastitis in cows investigated, 68 per cent 
were due to streptococci, 1 6 per cent to staphylococci, 3 per cent 
to Bacillus coli, 3 per cent (1 case) to Bacillus tuberculosis, and 
in 10 per cent (3 cases) the results were doubtful. If the 3 
doubtful cases are excluded, the percentage due to streptococci 
rises to 75. A large series of tests, including the production of 
acid in certain sugar-alcohol media, was used to differentiate 
the streptococci. It was found that 8 per cent of the strepto- 
cocci isolated could be grouped as forming a common type, 
called by the writer Streptococcus mastitidis. This is a long 
chain form growing rapidly in broth, forming a coherent 
deposit, but leaving the upper part clear. It grows upon 
gelatine without liquefaction, produces acid in milk, clotting 

1 Report of the Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1906-7, 1907-8, 
1908-9. 



io8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



CHAP. 



it within three days, gives no neutral red reaction, pro- 
duces acid in lactose and saccharose media, never in mannite, 
and not usually in salicin, raffinose, or inulin. It is non- 
pathogenic to mice. It is of considerable significance that in 
several other cases quite different streptococci were isolated. 

In view of the possible relationship of mastitis in cows to 
human disease it is a matter of great importance to consider 
how far the causal organisms of mastitis are present in 
quarters which clinically appear quite unaffected. To in- 
vestigate this question, the milk of all four quarters was, 
as far as possible, examined in every case. Excluding cases in 
which all four quarters were attacked, in 84 per cent of the 
cases due to streptococci identical organisms were isolated in 
one or more of the healthy quarters. In some instances they 
were present in only one healthy quarter, in others in all of 
them. It should be noted that not only were these strepto- 
cocci found in quarters which appeared sound when examined 
by a veterinary surgeon, but in quarters which frequently 
showed no evidence of any inflammatory reaction, as demon- 
strated by the extremely sensitive cytological examination. 
The milk appeared to be perfectly healthy to the naked eye. 
Although these streptococci (identical with those in the affected 
quarters) were present, usually the healthy quarters did not 
become subsequently involved. 

From a public health point of view these results are of 
considerable significance. In cases of mastitis in cows it is a 
quite common practice to use the milk from the seemingly 
unaffected quarters, although the secretion of the diseased 
quarters is recognised as unfit. The results obtained show 
that in most cases the farmer is thus adding to the vended 
milk very large numbers of streptococci indistinguishable from 
those causing the mastitis. 

The primary problem from the human standpoint is whether 
the streptococci found in cow mastitis are pathogenic to man. 
To elucidate this further investigation was required. Extended 
comparison was therefore instituted between the streptococci 
found in these two conditions. The streptococci found in 
16 cases of human sore throat were carefully investigated. 
Two chief types were found, confirming the results previously 
found by Andrewes and Horder. The most prevalent type 



vi DISEASES OF THE COW 109* 

was the variety which they called Streptococcus anginosus, 
while the other was identical with Streptococcus pyo genes. 
Comparing the two types most commonly met with in the 
bovine and human conditions the Streptococcus mastitidis 
and Streptococcus anginosus it was found that, morphologic- 
ally and culturally, they were quite indistinguishable even 
when the different sugar-alcohol tests were employed. In 
addition, the commonest cultural deviations from the type 
were the same* in both cases. As regards their pathogen icity 
towards the lower animals, however, they show distinct 
differences. Streptococcus mastitidis possesses low virulence ;. 
occasionally a local abscess is produced, but, as a rule, no 
pathogenic action is manifested towards mice or guinea-pigs. 
The Streptococcus anginosus type, on the other hand, is possessed 
of considerable pathogenic action, subcutaneous inoculation 
into mice frequently causing the death of the animal. The 
distinction is one of degree rather than kind, and otherwise 
the close similarity is very interesting. Further comparison 
is only possible along the lines of their specific properties. 

Can the mastitis streptococci, by inoculation upon the 
human throat, set up inflammatory action ? Will the udders 
of cows when inoculated with streptococci from cases of human 
disease become infected and mastitis result ? Both problems 
were experimentally investigated. The second question was 
studied in a series of experiments upon goats. Twenty-two 
separate experiments were carried out in which the teats were 
infected with pure cultures of different organisms. The results 
in the twenty experiments in which pure cultures of recently 
isolated streptococci were used were as follows : The three 
streptococci from mastitis cases in cows all set up mastitis in 
goats. Of two streptococci from sore teats one set -up a very 
severe mastitis, but the other was without effect. A strepto- 
coccus very common in, and isolated from, cow dung also pro- 
duced no visible effect. Thirteen streptococci of human 
origin, one from a healthy throat, six from cases of sore throat 
(2 being scarlet fever cases, and 4 ordinary tonsillitis 
cases), and four isolated from other human diseases, all failed 
to produce mastitis in the goat. In the remaining two cases, 
both streptococci not obtained from sore throats, distinct 
inflammatory reaction and some degree of mastitis resulted. 



no MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

One of these streptococci was derived from a case of Ludwig's 
angina, and the other from a case of acute epiphysitis. 

The results are distinctive. Comparing the human and 
the bovine groups, it was found that, although morphologic- 
ally and culturally they were often indistinguishable, they 
showed a wide divergence when their action towards animals 
was considered. The bovine mastitis type was non-virulent 
towards mice and other rodents, but possessed in marked 
degree the power to cause udder inflammation ih goats. The 
streptococci from human sources possessed a considerable 
virulence towards mice, but as regards the strains isolated 
from sore throats absolutely, and as regards those from other 
sources in most cases, they were unable to originate mastitis 
in goats. 

These results suggest that an essential difference of 
functional power separates the types, and that under ordinary 
conditions the Streptococcus mastitidis is not a cause of human 
disease. 

That the Streptococcus mastitidis is not a cause of human 
disease was also demonstrated by direct experiment. In two 
separate experiments the writer directly infected his own 
throat with massive doses of this streptococcus, isolated only a 
day or two previously from cases of cow mastitis. On both 
occasions no ill-effects were experienced generally or locally, 
and the streptococcus could only be recovered with extreme 
difficulty from his throat, and this although the isolation was 
undertaken only tw r o and three days respectively after the 
throat inoculation, and although that inoculation was massive 
in amount. 

On pathological grounds it would seem that the great 
majority of cases of bovine mastitis are due to an organism 
which is not harmful to man. This is in accord with the 
fact that while bovine mastitis is common, sore throat and 
other septic outbreaks from milk are rare. 

Epidemics of illness ascribed to this cause have nearly 
always been of the nature of outbreaks of septic sore throat, 
although there are one or t\vo in which gastro-enteritis has 
been the predominant condition. Hoist, 1 for example, records 
four outbreaks of acute gastro-enteritis from the use of raw 
1 Batimgarten's Jahresbericht, 1895, p. 52. 



VI 



DISEASES OF THE COW in 



milk, and in three of these he considers the cause to have been 
the milk of cows suffering from mastitis streptococci. In 
several cases the milk of these diseased cows, after being 
stopped, was again mixed with the other milk and sold (owing 
to change in the milkers), and diarrhoea reappeared amongst 
the consumers on the same day. Hoist also swallowed 200 c.c. 
of a milk culture of the streptococci isolated from one of the 
mastitis cases which had stood for a few hours at 37 C., and 
in consequence was ill with body pain and some diarrhoea 
and vomiting. 

At the end of Chapter V. a summary has been given of 
all the outbreaks which the writer has been able to collect, 
of sore throat, etc., spread by milk. For many of these a 
bovine origin has been ascribed. The fact that certain out- 
breaks do appear to be due to a cow with an infective mastitis 
is in line with the writer's pathological results. While he 
found that Streptococcus mastitidis was the usual organism of 
bovine mastitis, it was not the only type of streptococcus 
associated with this condition. In. one case, for example, a 
streptococcus of extremely high virulence to rodents was found 
to be the cause of the mastitis, and this organism in many 
other ways was quite distinctive from the Streptococcus masti- 
tidis, and may well have been potentially virulent to man. 
If we accept the view that the ordinary type of bovine 
mastitis is due to organisms non-virulent to man, but that in 
certain uncommon cases this condition is caused by strepto- 
cocci highly pathogenic to man, it offers a complete explanation 
of both the bacteriological investigations and the epidenrio- 
logical facts. 

From the practical point of view, it is well to remember 
that the pathogenic and non- pathogenic types of bovine 
mastitis are not clinically distinguishable. 

Ulcerated Teats. In addition to the diseases of cows already 
described, in which the teat eruption is part of a general con- 
stitutional disturbance such as cow-pox, not infrequently teat 
ulcerations and eruptions are met with in cows which seemingly 
are in perfect health. The cowman speaks of them as " sore 
teats," usually applies some local treatment, and neither notifies 
the Medical Officer of Health nor calls in a veterinary surgeon 
to treat them. When a veterinary surgeon is called in or meets 



ii2 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



CHAP. 



with the condition, he frequently speaks of it as spurious cow- 
pox, and attaches no significance to its occurrence. In the 
considerable number of cases which the writer has come across 
the cowkeeper has always milked the cows as usual and added 
the milk to the rest for sale. 

The relationship of ulcerated teats to human disease is 
at present undecided. Systematic bacteriological investiga- 
tions of sore teat conditions do not seem to have been 
made. 

That teat ulcers may be secondarily infected has been demon- 
strated in the case of diphtheria, and two outbreaks may be 
briefly mentioned. Dean and Todd l in 1902 described a 
small outbreak in which undoubted diphtheria bacilli were 
isolated from the teat lesions and from the milk. In this 
outbreak certain individuals suffered from diphtheria and 
others from sore throat, probably diphtheritic. They obtained 
their milk supply from two cows. The cows were affected 
with papules and ulcers on the udders and teats, which com- 
menced about ten days before the outbreak. One of the cows 
also showed mastitis in one quarter, the fluid secreted being 
scanty, ropy, and semi-purulent in appearance. True diph- 
theria bacilli which were virulent were isolated both from the 
lesions and from the milk. A healthy cow milked immediately 
after the diseased cows and by the same milker developed 
vesicles upon the teats, but neither in the vesicles nor in the 
ulcerative stage of the disease could diphtheria bacilli be 
demonstrated. The investigators also showed that in calves 
infected with the eruptive disease no diphtheria bacilli could 
be demonstrated, while injecting a calf with 10,000 units of 
diphtheria antitoxin did not prevent the vesicular eruption. 
The authors came to the conclusion that the lesions in the 
cow were not due to the diphtheria bacillus, but that the latter 
was a superadded infection. 

Ashby, 2 in 1906, described an extensive outbreak of diph- 
theria, affecting seventy-five persons living in forty-three houses. 
Forty-two of these houses were supplied by two milkmen. Of 
the cows of one dairyman (Z.) all the teats of two cows were 
badly ulcerated, and the teats of three other cows were affected 

1 Journal of Hygiene, 1902, ii. p. 194. 
2 Public Health, 1906, xix. p. 145. 



vi DISEASES OF THE COW 113 

to a lesser degree. Six of the cows of the other dairyman (Y.) 
were affected with an ulcerated condition of the teats. From 
swabs rubbed into the ulcers upon the teats of the two 
worst of Z.'s cows diphtheria bacilli were isolated. They 




FIG. 3. Ulcerated Teats. 

were fully virulent for guinea-pigs. Cultures from a sample 
of milk showed only non- pathogenic diphtheria -like bacilli. 
Ashby adds : " Whether the eruptive disease of the teat was a 
specific diphtheritic infection of the cow, or whether there was 
a specific contagious eruptive condition apart from diphtheritic 
infection, cannot now be told, but certain it is that the diph- 
theria bacillus was present in the pathological lesions of the 
cow." 

Klein's experimental results in favour of the existence of 
bovine diphtheria have not been confirmed by either Abbott 
or Eitter. 

Ever since the classical outbreak of scarlet fever at Hendon 
in 1885 the existence of bovine scarlet fever has been 
debated. The possibility of such a condition has again become 
of practical interest since the outbreak of scarlet fever in 1909 
in certain parts of London and Surrey was ascribed by Hamer 
and Jones to a possibly bovine source. 

The question of bovine scarlet fever is so technical and 
involved that if it is to be discussed it can only be profitably 
done, in some detail. To avoid overburdening the text with 
what is at most quite a minor portion of the milk problem, it 
is treated in a separate addendum to this chapter. 



ADDENDUM 

BOVINE SCARLET FEVER 

THE possibility of the cow being an actual source of scarlet fever 
was first advanced in 1882 by Power 1 as the results of his in- 
vestigations into the source of an outbreak of scarlet fever in North 
London. The practical importance of the matter was not, however, 
fully advanced until after the conclusions of the Hendon outbreak 
of 1905 had been formulated. 

Hendon Outbreak of Scarlet Fever. This outbreak occurred in 
N. London in 1885 and affected South Marylebone, St. Pancras, 
Hampstead, and Hendon. The epiderniological inquiries 2 con- 
ducted by Mr. (now Sir William) Power clearly showed that a 
certain milk supply was at fault, the milk coming from a farm at 
Hendon with about 90 to 100 cows. Power established that in the 
four milk districts the disease began at one and the same time, 
namely, about the end of November or beginning of December. 
In the district supplied by one of the chief purveyors (Mr. X.) 
scarlatina continued to attack the consumers day by day, and with 
increased force up to the date of the inquiry. In the district into 
which Mr. Y.'s (another purveyor) milk went, after attacking 
the customers in some numbers for a few days at the end of 
November and beginning of December, the disease showed no 
fresh attacks for about ten days (a short but clearly and sharply 
defined period of intermission) ; and then about the middle of 
December attacked the customers again in larger numbers and 
continued to do so up to the time of the inquiry. A third vendor, 
Mr. Z., obtained five-sixths of his milk from the Hendon farm, yet 
there was a total absence of scarlatina from among these customers. 
Power found that on November 15, three newly -calved cows, 
purchased from Derbyshire, had been received at the farm. 
They were quarantined by themselves for some days. Power, 
after minute inquiry, was able to show that scarlet fever among 
Mr. X.'s customers appeared soon after the milk of these cows 
was added to the milk delivered to X., that scarlatina among Y.'s 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1882, p. 63. 

2 Ibid., 1885, p. 73. 

114 



DISEASES OF THE COW 1 1 5 

customers appeared soon after the milk of these same cows was 
added to the milk delivered to Y., and that the absence of scarlatina 
among Z.'s customers was correlated to the fact that no milk from 
these cows was being added to the milk delivered to Z. 

As late as December 16, the milk was still capable of causing 
scarlet fever, as shown by the fact that some given away to poor 
people in Hendon caused a moderately severe outbreak there. 

Dr. Klein visited the farm on December 31, and studied the 
conditions met with on the cows. 1 It was ascertained that one of 
the three Derbyshire cows had been the first to suffer from a malady 
associated with some kind of disease of the udders. From this it 
spread to many of the other cows. The appearances noted were 
ulcerations which apparently began as small vesicles and which were 
covered with a brownish scab. The margins of the ulcers were 
not raised nor was there any perceptible redness of the skin 
around. The disease was usually confined to the teats, but in 
some animals there was also on the lower part of the udder, here 
and there, an ulcer. The animals were not constitutionally affected, 
or if so, only very slightly. " As regards the feeding capacity of 
affected animals, their milking power, and their body temperature, 
nothing abnormal could be detected." When two of the animals 
were killed and examined, except some congestion of the lungs 
and pleural adhesions, very little was found. The kidneys of 
two of the cows showed glomerulo-nephritis. 

Klein carried out certain pathological investigations. Scrapings 
were made from some of the ulcers on the udder and teats at the 
stage of their maximum development, and these were inoculated into 
four calves, the inoculation in each case being into the skin of the 
groin and the inside of the ear, beneath superficial incisions. In 
all four cases ulcers with or without vesicles were produced on 
the area of some of the incisions. The general health of the calves 
does not appear to have been affected, while the local signs were 
only at the site of injury, no eruption or ulceration upon teats or 
udders being recorded. 

From the deeper parts of an ulcer upon one of the cows Klein 
isolated a streptococcus. This grew slowly upon gelatine without 
liquefaction, grew readily in broth, clotted milk, and microscopically 
was a streptococcus of variable length. With this streptococcus he 
inoculated two calves subcutaneously in the groin. One calf was 
found dead 26 days later with a more or less septicaemic condition, 
while the other calf was killed after 36 days. Klein traced a 
similarity between the post-mortem condition of these calves and 
the post-mortem appearances of the Hendon diseased cows. He 
also found the condition of the kidneys to coincide with that met 
with in acute scarlatinal nephritis in man. 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1885, p. 90. 



n6 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

In a later report Klein 1 recorded further experiments. He 
injected cultures of the streptococcus which he called Streptococcus 
scarlatinae derived from human scarlatina (either directly or after 
passage through the calf) into the subcutaneous tissue of the ear 
of a number of cows. After 4 to 9 days sores and ulcers developed 
upon the teats. What was taken to be the Streptococcus scarlatinae 
was recovered from the milk of two of the experimental animals. 
At post-mortem there was found in the affected animals disease of 
the lungs, pleura, pericardium, lymph glands, spleen, and kidney. 

Those who opposed the existence of bovine scarlatina brought 
forward several very important objections. One of the most 
important was that 30 cows were purchased at the Derby market, 
but only 3 went to the Hendon farmer. These other cows showed 
in many cases sore teats, and spread the disease amongst the herds 
with which they were mixed. "From the first day to the last, 
while the milk from these cows was being drunk, no case of 
scarlatina was heard of among the customers of the dairy. " 
Professor Brown maintained that the Hendon disease was not rare 
but comparatively common in milch cows. 

Power made a special feature of the absence of all possible 
sources of human scarlet fever. It was subsequently shown that 
this conclusion could not be maintained, for Axe showed that 
scarlet fever was present antecedently to and concurrently with 
the outbreak at Hendon. Cases were present in the Mead, a 
low-lying street full of laundries and houses tenanted by the 
poorest inhabitants of the parish. It formed one side of the 
incriminated farm within which the cows were housed. 

The above are the essential pathological and epidemiological 
data upon which the evidence of the existence of bovine scarlet 
fever rests. As regards the pathological evidence it cannot now 
be accepted, in the light of present day bacteriological knowledge, 
that it is in any way conclusive evidence of bovine scarlet fever. 
Unless we are prepared to accept the organism described as 
Streptococcus scarlatinae as the organism of scarlet fever all the 
experiments with such streptococci are not germane to the question 
of bovine scarlatina. The characters given to this streptococcus 
are insufficient to differentiate it from the many very numerous 
types of streptococci now known to be present in both healthy 
milk and under diseased conditions of udder or teats. With the 
scanty differentiation tests then available it is not even clear or 
likely that the same organism was always employed. The ex- 
perimental work done with the ulcerated teat-scrapings merely 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1887, p. 203. 

2 Report on Eruptive Diseases of the Teats and Udders of Cows in relation to 
Scarlet Fever in Man, Professor Brown, Agricultural Department,, Privy 
Council Office, 1888. 



vi DISEASES OF THE COW 117 

produced local lesions at the site of inoculation, a not improbable 
result with such material. The clinical signs of the disease are 
not in any way sufficient to mark the condition off from similar 
diseases not very infrequent amongst milch cows. The evidence 
on which the existence of bovine scarlatina rests is the epidemio- 
logical facts elicited by Sir W. Power, and coming from such an 
acute observer they are entitled to the closest attention. These 
three cows, and later the others, do seem to have been closely associ r 
ated with the infectivity of the milk. 

Although in other outbreaks subsequent to the Hendon out- 
break a bovine origin was suggested, the only one worked out 
sufficiently in detail to warrant detailed description is the 
following : 

OUTBREAK OF SCARLET FEVER IN LONDON AND SURREY, 1909 1 

An extensive outbreak of scarlet fever in June 1909, which 
attacked upwards of 400 persons who consumed milk obtained 
from a particular milk company. The cases attacked were in 
different parts of London and the county of Surrey. The specific 
contamination of the milk was very ably traced by Dr. Hamer and 
Dr. Jones to the milk of one particular farm (called farm X. in the 
report) in Wiltshire. The facts adduced show clearly that the milk 
from this farm was the vehicle of infection, but there is room for a 
difference of opinion as to the precise source and origin of the 
infection. Hamer and Jones, from their investigations (carried out 
with the help of Mr. Dunbar, Dr. Mervyn Gordon, and others), 
came to the conclusion that the source of the outbreak was a 
morbid condition of one or more particular cows. On the other 
hand, a human source was possible. 

The essential facts bearing upon the precise source of infection 
are the following : At farm X., which consisted of two farmsteads 
(X.j and X. 2 ), and which was visited six days after the first cases 
attributed to milk infection, a man (G. L.). his wife, and their three 
children were all found to be suffering from scarlet fever, although 
they were at first said to be suffering from German measles. One 
child had been ill since June 11, and the man had been ill 
and away from work since the 15th. He acted as carter and 
auxiliary milker. He was allowed one pint of milk per day from 
farm X. No human source of infection of this family could be 
traced. 

Dunbar, the veterinary inspector, examined the cows on 
farm X. on two occasions. He found that most of the milch cows 
at farmstead X. 2 , and several at farmstead X. 15 presented scabs and 
excoriations *on the teats and udders ; the conditions being similar 

1 Report to the London County Council, 1909. 



n8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

to those first described in 1885 at Hendon. It was further 
ascertained (but with some obscurity as to precise dates and 
particulars) that on June 7 the milk of three heifers first came 
into use. The calf of one of these heifers (the red heifer) died 
four to five days after it was born. All three animals presented 
distinct evidence of a diseased condition of the teats. The three 
animals all calved about May 24. The authors of the report 
are of opinion that the milk of this red heifer was the cause of the 
outbreak, or as they put it : " The circumstances are highly 
suggestive of a special pathogenic quality of the red heifer's milk, 
which may possibly have caused first the death of her calf, and 
then, on the distribution of the milk in London and Surrey, 
produced scarlet fever among consumers in those counties. It 
would appear that June 7, the day on which the red heifer's 
milk first came into use, was the day on which the milk from the 
farm first showed evidence of being infective. It is probable that 
for two or three days the property of infectiousness was confined 
to the milk of the red heifer ; but the roan and white heifers, 
with which the red heifer had then for some days past been closely 
associated, must soon have become also involved. The assumption 
that the infected milk of one or more of these heifers, after being 
distributed on June 7, 8, 9, and 10, was for one reason or 
another not distributed on the llth and 12th, but that it and the 
milk of other cows which had now become infected was sent to 
the depot after that date until the time of stopping of the supply 
from the depot, would afford a satisfactory explanation of the 
phenomena of the outbreak." 

The question of a bovine origin from these cows, or a human 
origin from the carter, G. L., turns upon several points, of which 
the most important is the date of origin of the outbreak. 

After careful inquiry the writers of the report concluded that 
the distribution on June 7, 8, 9, and 10, of the milk from 
farm X. was associated with the development of scarlet fever. 
Also again on June 13, but not on the llth and 12th. Since 
the onset of the infection of the family of G. L. was the llth to 
1 5th June, they conclude that the milk possessed infective property 
at least four days before the appearance of symptoms of illness in 
any member of the milker's family. " It would appear, therefore, 
that the cases in this milker's family were caused by drinking 
infected milk from farm X. ; in fact, that the milk infected the 
milker, and not the milker the milk." 

The essential fact to justify this conclusion is the date when the 
milk was first infective. Is the data sufficient to establish the claim 
that the milk was infective as early as June 7 1 The chief 
grounds for fixing this date appear to be contained in the following 
paragraph : " The information we received in the first instance was 



VI 



DISEASES OF THE COW 119 



to the effect that the earliest cases among this vendor's (i.e. vendor 
A.) customers were not notified until June 18. Further inquiry, 
however, was made into the matter, and the Medical Officer of 
Health of the district concerned wrote as follows : * The doctor 
who notified nearly all the cases, on the 18th, says that he had 
several cases of sore throat during the week previous, not followed 
by rash and not notified. I have also notes of three similar cases 
where other persons in the house subsequently developed scarlet 
fever with rash.' The records of milk distributed show that 
vendor A. received two churns of milk sent from farm X. on 
June 7 ; possibly the anomalous character of the early cases 
among his customers may justify the assumption that the milk 
possessed on that date a modified infective property as compared 
with that derived from the same source at a later date." No 
further evidence is adduced that the sore throat without rash was 
scarlet fever ; we do not know if these cases peeled or not, if they 
suffered from any scarlet fever complications, or if they had pre- 
viously suffered from that disease. In view of the great importance 
of accurately determining the date at which the milk was first 
infective, it is a singular omission not to furnish more details as to 
these cases. The fact that the Medical Officer of Health has notes of 
three similar cases in which other persons in the house developed 
scarlet fever with rash is, of course, no evidence, since presumably 
the milk was not stopped, and the latter cases might as reasonably 
be direct infection from the milk as cases contracted from the sore 
throat without rash cases. The first notification was apparently 
only made on June 14. The only detailed statement as to cases 
is in regard to those at Croydon, and in all of these the onset was 
June 1 6 or later. 

The evidence given in the report as to dates of onset is not 
sufficient to exclude G. L., the milker and carter, from being the 
source of the mischief. 

In favour of the view that the carter-milker, G. L., was the 
source of infection, we have the fact that he continued to milk cows 
up to June 14, when the first case in his family was June 11, and 
that the 14th of June was the day the milk was the most harmful. 
The author of the able criticism in the Journal of Comparative 
Pathology l supplies another reason for regarding G. L. as the source 
of the infection. He says: "G. L. had nothing to do with the 
mixing of the milk, and assuming that he was the sole cause of the 
epidemic, the only milk infected as it left the farm would be in the 
churns containing the milk of cows milked by him. As at most he 
milked only two cows at each farmstead, the chances are greatly in 
favour of the view that any milk supplied to the milker at farm- 

1 Editorial, Journ. of Comparative Pathology and Therapeutics, xxii. , 1909, 
p. 345. 



120 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

stead X. 2 would be the milk not contaminated by G. L. The 
theory that G. L. was the fountainhead of the infection is thus in 
perfect harmony with the fact that at farmstead X a the farmer, 
his wife and her sister, and the foreman milker, and at farmstead X. 2 
the milker, and his family of eight persons, all escaped the disease ; 
whereas the escape of all these persons is very difficult to explain, 
if it is maintained that the cow diseases discovered at both farm- 
steads was the source of the infection." 

The evidence that this outbreak had a bovine source really 
rests upon the conclusions of the investigators that no human 
source could be found, and that the infectivity of the milk was 
coincident with the use of milk from an animal suffering from sores 
on teats and udder similar to those found in the Hendon disease. 
Apart from the fact that such sores and excoriations were found, 
and that the milk of this herd was causing scarlet fever, there is 
no evidence, clinical or bacteriological, that they were connected in 
the relationship of cause and effect, while no evidence was adduced 
that they might not have been there for a long time previous to 
the outbreak. 

In view of the great difficulty in tracing the sources of isolated 
cases of scarlet fever, it is of no particular moment that no source 
of infection for the G. L. family could be found. 

The outbreak is an extremely interesting one in view of the 
possibility of a bovine origin, but the evidence is, in the writer's 
opinion, insufficient to establish that a bovine origin for the 
epidemic was the most probable cause. 

It would appear that the evidence in favour of the existence of 
true bovine scarlet fever is insufficient to warrant its acceptance. 

The writer 1 has advanced an hypothesis which, in his opinion, 
offers the best explanation of the outbreaks of scarlet fever and 
sore throat associated with disease of the cows. This theory is 
that whenever the cow is a source of scarlet fever or other 
septic disease it is because it is acting as a carrier of organisms of 
human origin, often in a purely passive capacity, but sometimes 
associated with active but local disease caused by the human infect- 
ing organism. It will be seen that this hypothesis implies the 
acceptance of two separate conclusions : 

(a) That the cow may be a source of human disease not because 
it is constitutionally infective, but because it is acting as a carrier 
of human pathogenic organisms. 

(b) That disease of the milk-producing organs of cows is only 
likely to be harmful to man when the causally associated organisms 
are of human origin, or when human organisms are superadded as 
a secondary infection. 

1 Proceedings of Royal Society of Medicine, iv., March 1911, Epidemiological 
Section. 



VI 



DISEASES OF THE COW 121 



Of course, tuberculosis is not included in this hypothesis. The 
first conclusion is more capable of proof than the second, and may 
be accepted without the second being admitted. 

Briefly stated, this view regards the bovine udder and teat 
lesions, as commonly met with, as of purely bovine origin, and, as 
such, harmless to man. Occasionally, either as an invasion super- 
added upon the original bovine lesions, or as a primary infection of 
the milk organs, there is a local infection with organisms of human 
origin. In such cases the conditions present may be decidedly 
prejudicial to man. In other words, the cow, in this class of infec- 
tions, is only potentially pathogenic to man when it acts as a 
passive carrier of or is actively infected with organisms of human 
origin. 

The known facts fit in with this hypothesis : 

I. It is clear that the great majority of bovine udder and teat 
lesions are not harmful to man. As evidence of this we have in 
the first place the striking disproportion between the prevalence of 
udder and teat lesions and the recorded outbreaks of human disease 
ascribed to these conditions. Even allowing for a large number of 
unrecorded outbreaks and numerous individual cases of illness, the 
disproportion is very marked. In the second place, the bacteriological 
investigations recorded above have proved that the commonest type 
of mastitis is not harmful to man in a healthy condition, and probably 
not when debilitated. The evidence of the innocuousness of the 
ordinary type of bovine mastitis is added to by the demonstration 
of the streptococci causing the condition in abundance in the milk 
of the clinically unaffected quarters milk which must, therefore, 
have been repeatedly added to the vended milk. 

II. There is reliable epidemiological evidence connecting at 
least some sore throat and other human disease outbreaks with 
affections of the bovine milk organs. The descriptions of these 
outbreaks in Chapter V. may be referred to for such evidence. 

III. There is clear evidence that organisms of undoubtedly 
human origin can in certain cases infect the milk organs of 
bo vines. 

The diphtheria instances already recorded offer the most 
striking evidence of this, because this organism can be readily 
identified ; if the scarlet fever organism could be identified with equal 
facility, it is probable that similar evidence for that disease would 
be forthcoming. The outbreak of Dean and Todd is particularly 
conclusive, since they proved that there was a separate bovine 
eruption, with the diphtheria bacilli present as a second superadded 
infection. Klein and Abbott have both demonstrated that diph- 
theria bacilli, inoculated into calves and cows, could be recovered 
at the site of inoculation for some time. 

Certain of the writer's goat inoculation experiments are very 



122 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

interesting in this connection. The streptococci of human origin, 
for the most part, died out fairly rapidly when implanted into the 
teats of goats, but only relatively so ; one strain, for example, 
living for as long as twenty -six days after inoculation. One 
striking exception was, however, met with. In the case in which 
the streptococcus isolated from the spleen of a boy who died of 
acute lymphadenitis was used to infect a goat's teat, it did not set 
up any inflammation, but survived as a harmless (to the goat) 
saprophyte for the whole duration of the experiment, extending 
over seven months. During this period it had not caused any 
inflammatory changes or alteration in the appearances of the milk, 
nor had its biological characters become altered except in one par- 
ticular, and that inconstantly. This streptococcus had originally 
caused a secondary infection in a boy, with marked elevation of 
temperature, and, no doubt, largely contributed to his death. We 
have only to postulate the retention of its virulence for a while, 
and this goat's milk, if drunk (and it was absolutely normal in 
appearance), would be a potent disease factor. 

It may be suggested that, if we accept this view, the cow would 
be a much more potent agent for the spread of disease than it now 
is, seeing the ease with which organisms of human origin can be 
implanted under present conditions upon cows' teats and udders. 
This is not likely since, as pointed out, human streptococci for the 
most part will not grow in or on a bovine habitat. Incidentally 
it may be mentioned that the opposite is probably also true, since 
the streptococci of bovine mastitis died out with extreme rapidity 
in the writer's own throat, although the infection was extremely 
massive in character. 

IV. The above hypothesis offers the best explanation of a 
number of facts in connection with certain milk-borne sore throat 
and scarlet fever outbreaks, which otherwise it is extremely difficult 
to explain. For example, a noticeable feature of some of these 
outbreaks is the prolonged period during which the milk was 
serving as a vehicle of infection. If we have a purely human 
source of infection we should rather expect a very sudden outbreak 
of short duration, since a human source is not likely to be daily 
infecting the milk over a long period. In the Guildford outbreak, 
for instance, the milk was infectious for some seven to eight weeks. 
While the infection probably started from a human source (the 
farmer), we cannot, as Pierce points out, account for the pro- 
longed infectivity of the milk, unless we postulate a continuous 
infection of the cows' milk -producing organs from this human 
source. The farmer was disabled and unable to milk, etc., for at 
least a month. 

The conflicting views of the Hendon outbreak can be reconciled, 
and only so, on the above hypothesis. For example : 



vi DISEASES OF THE COW 123 

(a) The most telling argument against the bovine scarlatina 
view, the absence of scarlet fever amongst the rest of the Derby 
cows, is explainable. On this hypothesis we can accept the view 
that this outbreak of teat and udder ulceration was very widespread. 
It was due to a bovine disease of an infectious character to bo vines, 
having nothing to do with scarlatina. Human cases of scarlatina 
were, therefore, only traceable from such cows when, as in the three 
sent to Hendon, superadded scarlatinal organisms were present. 

(b) One of the strongest arguments against a purely human 
origin was the prolonged infectivity of the milk. The opponents 
of the bovine origin showed the possibility of human infection. 
It, however, seems to have been established that none of the 
milkers or others who came into regular contact with the milk, or 
the cows, suffered, or .had suffered from scarlet fever. The only 
human infection possible was at the most intermittent, and probably 
only occurred once or twice. On a well-managed farm, such as this 
farm was shown to be, to produce prolonged infectivity we must 
postulate a human factor at work all, or nearly all, the time. 
There is admittedly not the slightest evidence of prolonged human 
infection. If, however, we assume that in some now undiscoverable 
way (possibly in transit to the farm) the already present ulcers and 
sores of the three cows were infected with the organism of scarlet 
fever this difficulty vanishes. 

(c) The most striking fact established by Power in favour of 
the bovine theory was the definite association of scarlet fever cases 
with the movements of these three cows. This is obviously 
explained by the hypothesis of their being locally infective. 

(d) The opponents of the bovine theory are confirmed in their 
view by the continued rarity of such conditions. On the hypothesis 
the rarity of such outbreaks is easily understandable. We have 
three factors which have to be in operation at once : cows suffering 
from a bovine disease of the teats and udders, which will allow a 
secondary infection with the organisms of scarlet fever ; the existence 
of cases of scarlet fever ; means of bringing the last condition into 
intimate relationship with the first. 

Klein's results are explainable on the supposition that he was 
working with the original bovine disease material, and with this 
he was able to reproduce ulcers and vesicles in inoculated calves. 

The suggested hypothesis offers a complete explanation of all the 
essential facts of the Hendon disease, and reconciles the conflicting 
views. 

Similarly the Glasgow outbreak 1 in 1892, said to be due to 

the Hendon disease, can best be explained on this hypothesis, 

particularly as regards the prolonged infectivity of the milk. In 

this outbreak Klein's results definitely show that an underlying 

1 Brit-. Med. Journ. 1892, ii., p. 666. 



i2 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH. vi 

condition of true vaccinia was present in the cows, as well as what 
he considers to be the virus causing the outbreak. 

V. There is also another fact, which may or may not be 
germane to this subject, but which is very interesting. If the 
records of milk-borne outbreaks of septic conditions, and especially 
scarlet fever, are carefully studied, it will be found in a considerable 
number of them (when the condition has been looked for) that teat 
ulceration, mastitis, or other local lesions of the milk organs, have 
been found to be present. This is inclusive of epidemics in which 
a definite human source of infection has been traced and accepted 
as a sufficient cause of the outbreak, and where no question of 
bovine infection has been raised. The writer is of opinion, from 
his personal experience, that the proportion of cows with ulcerated 
teats is decidedly higher in the herds of cows from farms implicated 
in milk epidemics of scarlet fever than for ordinary farms. This 
higher incidence of lesions may be accidental, but it would seem 
more probable that a relationship exists, and that the sore teats 
are not infrequently a nidus for passive infection. That is, given 
a human milker, actively or passively harbouring scarlet fever 
organisms, he may, or may not, infect the milk suppty, but is more 
likely to do so if the infection is in the first place conveyed to 
ulcerated teats, and in this way infects the milk. For one thing, 
the dose is likely to be larger, and also decidedly less intermittent. 



CHAPTEE VII 

TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW IN RELATION TO HUMAN DISEASE 

BY far the most important disease of cows is tuberculosis. 
This disease as it exists in cows demands very careful con- 
sideration on account of its wide prevalence, the frequency 
with which the bacilli of the disease gain access to milk, and 
because the disease can be transmitted to man through the 
cow. The available literature is enormous, and the different 
aspects of the problem numerous. An attempt has been 
made to treat the subject with a due regard to the relative 
importance of the different parts of the question. The ad- 
ministrative control of the disease and the prevention of 
infection to man is considered in Chapter XVIII. 

THE PREVALENCE OF BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS 

The very extensive investigations which have been carried 
out have shown that tuberculosis of cattle is extremely pre- 
valent in most parts of the civilised world. The prevalence 
varies greatly from a few small areas of infection up to a 
condition affecting more than half the number of cows. In 
a few places, such as the Channel Islands, the disease is un- 
known in cows, but these cows readily become attacked when 
they remove to an infected area. 

The extent to which tuberculosis is prevalent in cows can 
only be determined by the use of tuberculin. Writing in 
1901, and basing his figures upon the tuberculin test, Dollar 1 
remarks that Hunting, who examined 4000 English cattle, 
found 20 per cent tuberculous, and quotes figures from other 
countries giving a percentage for Denmark of 31, Sweden 

1 Trans. British Congress an Tuberculosis, 1901, vol. iv. p. 44. 
I2 5 



126 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

42, Norway 8 '4, and Belgium 60. In Massachusetts, U.S.A., 
during 1897, 58*9 per cent of the cases reacted. In Ger- 
many the figures varied greatly with the locality. Of 48,172 
cows slaughtered in Saxony during 1899, over 35 per cent 
were tuberculous. The older the animal the higher the per- 
centage. Thus, of 14,684 cows over four years old slaughtered 
in Berlin, 14,556, or 99 per cent, were tuberculous. The 
lesions, of course, were in some cases trifling, only the bronchial 
glands being affected. These last figures were, however, founded 
upon macroscopic examination in slaughter-houses. With the 
tuberculin test the proportion would be even higher. 

Delepine 1 in 1897-99 tested 128 cows with tuberculin. 
Of these, 37 (30 per cent) were tuberculous. In the testings 
carried out at Aberdeen in 1899, out of 137 cows tested, 37 
were tuberculous. 

The tuberculin test has not been used very extensively in 
this country, but it is probably safe to assume that 25 to 30 
per cent of cows in this country are suffering from tuberculosis. 

Apart from local incidence of the disease, one important 
factor influencing the amount of tuberculosis is the age of the 
cow. Older cows are much more likely to show evidence of 
tuberculosis. Bang, 2 for instance, records that during the 
years 1898-1904 careful examination of 40,624 head of 
cattle in Denmark, subjected to the tuberculin test for the 
first time, showed that of calves under six months 12'1 per 
cent reacted ; of yearlings (from six to eighteen months) 27'5 
per cent; of two-year-olds (from Ij to 2^- years) 38'6 per 
cent ; of full-grown animals (from 2j to 5) 44'9 per cent ; 
and of animals over five years 48 per cent figures which 
correspond with the results of tuberculin tests in other countries 
as well as with the experiences of slaughter-houses. 

When the infection was introduced through milk, as 
when calves were fed upon tuberculous skim milk, Bang noted 
that while the cows were often very healthy, it was the calves 
or the young cattle which reacted ; sometimes the peculiar 
fact might be observed that only animals of the same age 
for instance, yearlings or two-year-olds reacted ; and when 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1908-9, p. 402. 
- Transactions Internal. Congress on Tuberculosis, 1908, vol. iv. part ii. 
p. 850. 






TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 127 

this happened, the heating apparatus of the dairy was found 
to have been out of order just at the time when milk was 
supplied to the set of animals that had reacted. 

From the practical point of view in relation to human 
infection, the essential point to consider is the extent to which 
these tuberculous cows yield tubercle bacilli in the milk. Up 
to a few years ago it was generally accepted that tubercle 
bacilli were only found in milk when tuberculosis of the udder 
was present. This is now known not to be the case, and 
tubercle bacilli may gain access to the milk from cows 
which neither clinically nor on post-mortem examination 
present any signs of udder disease. We owe our knowledge 
upon this matter largely to Mohler and Schroeder in America, 
and more recently to the last Royal Commission on Tuberculosis 
in this country. Some of Mohler's l conclusions were as follows : 

The tubercle bacillus may be demonstrated in milk from 
tuberculous cows when the udders show no perceptible evidence 
of the disease, either macroscopically or microscopically. 

The bacilli of tuberculosis may be excreted from such an udder 
in sufficient numbers to produce infection in experimental animals 
both by ingestion and inoculation. 

The presence of the tubercle bacillus in the milk of tuberculous 
cows is not constant, but varies from day to day. 

Cows secreting virulent milk may be affected with tuberculosis 
to a degree that can be detected only by the tuberculin test. 

The physical examination or general appearance of the cow 
cannot foretell the infectiveness of the milk. 

The milk of all cows which have reacted to the tuberculin 
test should be considered as suspicious, and should be subjected 
to sterilisation before using. 

Schroeder 2 came to very similar conclusions. He found 

. . . among tuberculous dairy cows that retain the appearance 
of health and are not known to be affected until they are tested 
with tuberculin, 40 per cent or more actively expel tubercle bacilli 
from their bodies in a way dangerous to the health of other animals 
and persons. 

The general evidence justifies the conclusion that tuberculous 
<jows do not expel tubercle bacilli until some time after they contract 
the affection. 

Dairy cows that have been affected with tuberculosis three 

1 Bulletin No. 41 > Bureau Animal Industry U.S. Dept. Agriculture, 1903. 

2 Circular 118, Bureau Animal Industry U.S. Dept. Agriculture, 1907. 



128 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

years or more, with possibly rare exceptions, are active agents for 
the dissemination of tubercle bacilli. 

The English Royal Commission on Tuberculosis 1 reports 
similar results. Their experiments were made with the milk 
of 6 cows which had contracted tuberculosis in the natural 
way. Three of the animals showed clinical signs of tuberculosis, 
but in none of the 6 could tuberculosis of the udder be 
detected during life. 

The faeces of all 6 cows, obtained under conditions pre- 
cluding contamination from the genito-urinary passages, were 
used to inoculate guinea-pigs and to feed guinea-pigs and young 
pigs. The faeces of 5 of these animals were found to contain 
living and virulent tubercle bacilli. The three which were 
suffering from severe tuberculosis were eliminating large 
numbers of tubercle bacilli. This was shown by the occur- 
rence of tuberculosis after the inoculation of very small doses 
of faecal matter in all but one of the guinea-pigs which sur- 
vived a sufficient length of time, and by the fact that all the 
swine fed became tuberculous. 

The milk of 5 of the cows was used to inoculate guinea- 
pigs, some rabbits, and some young pigs. The milk of 2 of these 
animals (both severely diseased) caused, though not invariably, 
tuberculosis in guinea-pigs inoculated with relatively small 
doses. Post-mortem, the udders revealed no signs of tuber- 
culosis. The milk of a third cow caused severe tuberculosis 
in every guinea-pig inoculated, but the animal was very ill at 
the time the milk was collected, while post-mortem, four small 
nodules were present in one quarter of the udder. The milk 
of the remaining 2 cows did not give rise to tuberculosis in 
any of the animals inoculated. Both were suffering from 
tuberculosis of lungs and mediastinal glands. 

The Commissioners sum up the matter in regard to 
tuberculous cows with no udder disease by saying : 

Cows suffering from extensive tuberculosis of the lungs must 
discharge considerable numbers of bacilli from the air passages in 
the act of coughing, and some of the bacilli thus expelled may find 
their way into the milk. But our experiments indicate that the 
excrement of cows obviously suffering from tuberculosis of the 
lungs or alimentary canal must be regarded as much more dangerous 

1 Third Interim Report, 1909. 



vii TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 129 

than the matter discharged from the mouth or nostrils. We have 
found that even in the case of cows with slight tuberculous lesions, 
tubercle bacilli in small numbers are discharged in the faeces ; while 
as regards cows clinically tuberculous, our experiments show that 
the faeces contain large numbers of living and virulent tubercle 
bacilli. 

The Commissioners also found that the inoculation of 
large doses of tubercle bacilli, human or bovine, may result in 
the excretion of tubercle bacilli in the milk of the cow and of 
the goat without any disease of the udder being produced, and 
' that in the case of the human tubercle bacillus these bacilli 
may, when large doses are employed, be present in their milk 
for a long time after inoculation. 

The same important fact has also been demonstrated by 
investigators abroad. For example, Rabinowitch and Kempner 
examined the milk of 14 cows all reacting to tuberculin, but 
only one of which exhibited clinical signs of udder disease. 
Ten out of these 14 cows showed tubercle bacilli in the milk. 
Also De Jong 1 examined 1 slightly affected tuberculous 
cows, but clinically healthy, and found 3 which were excreting 
tubercle bacilli through healthy udders. 

These results prove indisputably that tubercle bacilli may 
and do gain access to milk from cows which clinically show no 
signs of udder tuberculosis or indeed of any form of tuberculosis. 
While this fact is of immense importance, it is yet possible to 
exaggerate its significance. Infection with the tubercle bacillus 
is largely a question of dosage, and while all tuberculin-reacting 
cows must now be looked upon as possible sources, and all cows 
with " open " tuberculosis as actual sources of tubercle bacilli 
in milk, yet the available evidence shows that extensive 
infection of the milk with the bacilli of tuberculosis is mainly 
from cows either marked " wasters " or those suffering from 
tubercular infection of the udder. 

On this account chief significance must still be attached 
to the cows with udder tuberculosis, and information as to 
the prevalence of this condition is most important. Dis- 
tinguished veterinary authorities do not altogether agree on 
this point, but the general consensus of opinion is that about 
2 per cent of cows suffer from a tuberculous udder. 

1 Fortschritte der Medizin, 1908, vol. xxvi., Sept. 20. 

K 



1 30 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The following figures from the Transactions of the British Congress 
on Tuberculosis (1901), vol. iv., may be quoted in connection with 
this estimate. Stockman examined 1312 cows and found 28 with 
lesions of the udder. The cows were slightly selected, so this 
percentage was probably too high. " However, I do not think it is 
much below 2 per cent.''' Sir J. McFadyean concluded that probably 
2 or 3 per cent of the cows in the country have tuberculosis of the 
udder. Nocard remarked, " Tuberculous mammitis is a rare lesion, 
and not seen in more than 2 per cent of tuberculous cows." Dewar 
remarked, " Increased experience leads me to believe that the 
number of tuberculous cows affected with tubercle of the udder is 
greater than that usually estimated, i.e. about 3 per cent. Apart 
from cows that are only recognised as tuberculous through the 
action of tuberculin, I think the percentage would be from 5 to 7." 

On the other hand, Penberthy l thinks this estimate of 2 per 
cent of tuberculous udders in cows is too high. He mentions that 
in the county of London there are about 4000 cows kept, and about 
12 cases of mammary tuberculosis are discovered annually (0*3 per 
cent), while 3 per cent of the cases of tuberculosis in cows 
slaughtered at Islington have tuberculous udders, and taking 25 
per cent as representing the proportion of tuberculous to non- 
tuberculous cows, this works out at 0'75 per cent. He quotes 
other figures from Glasgow, Sheffield, Leeds, and Liverpool. It is, 
however, probable that in large towns with rigid inspection cases 
of udder tuberculosis would be promptly sold out of the town, and 
this selective action would also in part operate as regards animals 
sent in for slaughter. 

In Chapter XVIII. p. 333, the actual percentage of cows found 
by the Manchester and Sheffield veterinary inspectors is given for 
a number of years. 

Dr. Hope 2 records that, during the years 1901-9 inclusive, 
4919 cows in cowsheds outside the Liverpool city boundaries were 
examined. Of these, 104 ( = 2'1 per cent) cows were suffering 
from or suspected to be suffering from tuberculosis of the udder. 
It is not explained, however, what exact proportion of these cows 
were definitely proved cases of udder tuberculosis. 

Sir Shirley Murphy 3 gives the following figures : 

Last 6 months 1908. 1909. 

Outside London farms inspected . . 190 439 

Number of cows examined . . . 4997 11,004 

Number of cows with tuberculous udders 147 219 
Percentage of cows found to have clinical 

symptoms of tubercular disease of the 

udder 2'9 1'98 

1 Jnurn. lloyal Institute of Public Health, 1907, vol. xv. p. 577. 

2 Annual lie-port, Liverpool, 1909, p. 184. 
J Annual Reports, London County Council, 1908 and 1909. 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 131 

In illustration of the close relationship between the 
presence of tubercle bacilli in the milk and the presence of a 
case of udder tuberculosis in the herd, the investigations of 
Delepine, 1 dealing with the inoculation of milk samples from 
Manchester and the surrounding districts, may be cited. Out 
of 1385 farms 294 were found to be supplying tuberculous 
milk. In consequence of this fact 276 of these farms were 
inspected, and in 190 of them the veterinary surgeon, with 
the help of the bacteriologist, was able to discover one or more 
cows with tuberculous udders. After the removal of those 
cows the milk generally ceased to produce tuberculosis in 
guinea-pigs when examined on one or more occasions after- 
wards. In the remaining cases (about 3 1 per cent) the source 
of infection could not be found. From the inquiries made at 
these 86 farms Delepine found that in at least 32 cases cows 
had been sold between the time of collecting the sample and 
examining the cows ; in others, the farmer had been buying 
milk from other sources. From his inquiries he believes that in 
most of these cases the source of the tubercle bacilli was from a 
cow not on the farm, and gives as his estimate the following : 

Per cent. 

Tuberculous udders the cause of infection . . . 7 8 '6 
,, ,, probably the cause of infection . 16*0 

Nothing definite to connect infection with the state of 

the cow ........ 5 - 2 

The fact, however, remains, that in 3 1 per cent of the cases 
a cow with a tuberculous udder was not found, and its 
presence could only be deduced with more or less probability 
in a number of the cases. It is unfortunate that the mixed 
milk from each of the herds which gave tuberculosis to 
guinea-pigs, but which contained no cow with a tuberculous 
udder, was not re-inoculated to see if it could then set up 
tuberculosis. 

While these results emphasise the great significance of the 
tuberculous udder, the writer reads them as also showing the 
infectivity of milk without udder lesions, and to a greater 
extent than Delepine admits, the more especially as the 
diagnosis of udder tuberculosis was made with the assistance 
of the bacteriologist. 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1908-9, p. 341. 



132 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



The results in other areas with similar legal powers are not 
nearly so favourable. In particular the Sheffield results may 
be quoted. In connection with the Sheffield milk clauses, 
samples have been taken for a number of years from milk 
reaching the city from outside areas. These are bacterio- 
logically examined, and when tubercle bacilli are found the 
farms supplying the particular milk samples are visited by a 
skilled veterinary inspector. When in following up such 
positive samples no cows can be found exhibiting signs of 
tuberculosis of the udder, what is called a control sample is 
taken to check the veterinary examination. Such samples are 
therefore samples of the mixed milk of herds of cows without 
clinical signs of tuberculosis. The number taken and results- 
of the examinations were as follows : 



Year.i 


Number of 
Control Samples 
taken. 


Number 
Tuberculous. 


Percentage 
Tuberculous. 


1902 


1 






1903 7 






1904 


11 


3 


27-3 


1905 17 


6 


35-3 


1906 


8 


1 


12-5 


1907 


39 


8 


20-5 


1908 62 


7 


11-2 


1909 56 


8 


14-3 


1902-1909 


201 


33 


16-4 



In other words, in 16 '4 per cent of cases, on an average, 
tubercle bacilli were found in milk produced by cows passed 
by a skilled veterinary inspector specially on the look-out for 
the condition as free from udder tuberculosis. It is not 
possible to say what proportion of this was due to early and 
unrecognisable udder tuberculosis. 

Dr. Eenney 2 writes me that, as regards Sunderland, in 
quite a large proportion of cases the cows from farms supplying 
tuberculous milk appear to be in first-class condition, and it 
was not possible to single out any particular cow which was 
likely to be affected with the disease. 

1 Report of Medical Officer of Health, Sheffield, 1909, pp. 46-47. 
2 Personal communication to the writer. 



vii TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 133 

It is evident from these facts that veterinary inspection 
of cows, even if repeated frequently and conducted by officers 
of the highest clinical skill, is, apart from bacteriological 
examination, a safeguard which is insufficient to prevent 
tubercle bacilli from gaining access to the milk. 

That extremely small quantities of milk from cows suffering 
from udder tuberculosis may set up tuberculosis in guinea-pigs 
is shown by the investigations of Ostertag, Ostermann, etc. 
Ostertag 1 tested the milk of ten cows suffering from udder 
tuberculosis as regards its capacity to set up tuberculosis 
when inoculated into the guinea-pig. In every case the un- 
diluted milk set up the disease, while dilutions of the milk as 
great as 1 : 10 million, 1:1000 million, 1 : 10,000 million 
set up tuberculosis in guinea-pigs in individual cases. Oster- 
mann 2 tested the milk of two tuberculous cows. With the 
milk of the first cow dilutions of 1:1000 and 1:5000 set 
up tuberculosis, but dilutions of 1 : 10,000 and over were 
ineffective. With the milk of the second cow dilutions of 
1:5000, 1:10,000, and 1:50,000 were positive, while 
1:25,000 was negative. 1 c.c. of the dilution was in- 
oculated in each case. Delepine records that 0'0002 c.c. 
of milk from a cow with advanced udder tuberculosis set up 
tuberculosis in a guinea - pig. Greater dilutions were not 
tried. 

These results show the variable number of bacilli in cases 
of udder tuberculosis, and the very large numbers which may 
be present. 

The detection of bovine tuberculosis may be carried out 
in three ways : clinical examination, bacteriological diagnosis, 
and by the use of tuberculin. 

Clinical Diagnosis. This is not the place to discuss the 
symptoms of tuberculosis in cows, and books on veterinary 
practice must be consulted. The clinical diagnosis of all but 
well-marked cases is generally recognised as impracticable. 
As one veterinary authority 3 has put it : " The clinical 
diagnosis of tuberculosis even by the most expert clinical 
examiner, except in advanced cases, is always unreliable, as 

1 Zeitschrift fur Infektionskrankhciten der Haustierc, 1905. 

2 Ibid., 1908, vol. Ix. p. 410. 
3 McEachran, Trans. British Congress on Tuberculosis, 1901, vol. iv. p. 111. 



i 3 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

tubercle bacilli may exist in such a state as would be impossible 
of diagnosis bj this means." 

In view of the stress which has been laid by some writers 
upon the sufficiency of systematic veterinary inspection to 
safeguard the purity of milk, it is very important to recognise 
that the diagnosis of early tuberculosis of the udder is often 
extremely difficult. For example, Dewar says : l "In the 
udder the progress of the disease is often slow, and there 
is no doubt but it may exist for weeks in such a condition 
as to render the milk dangerous before the most expert 
clinician could detect its presence." Nocard 2 remarks 
that the diagnosis of tuberculous mammitis is " both urgent 
and difficult ; the clinical symptoms are vague, and generally 
point to a range of probabilities which are more or less 
certain. Even if the cow has reacted to tuberculin, it does 
not necessarily follow that the induration of its udder is 
tuberculous, for tuberculous cows, as well as healthy ones, are 
liable to contract mammitis of various natures." 

Bacteriological Examination. The utility of this method 
will depend upon the nature of the tuberculosis with which 
the animal is affected. In " closed " tuberculosis, of the 
glands for example, direct bacteriological examination is of no 
assistance. For " open " tuberculosis, by which is meant 
tuberculosis of organs communicating with the exterior, 
whereby tubercle bacilli are discharged outside the animal 
body, bacteriological examination of the vaginal secretion, 
faeces, etc., may be of marked diagnostic value. This method 
is of fundamental assistance in the diagnosis of udder tuber- 
culosis, and this variety of the disease can be diagnosed with 
great certainty by bacteriological examination of the milk 
(drawn off without contamination) and injection into guinea- 
pigs. 

The diagnosis of tuberculosis by the agglutination test 
has been introduced by Arloing, but the practical difficulties 
are considerable, and the method has not been adopted as one 
of wide applicability. 

By the Use of Tuberculin. Tuberculin (Koch's old tuber- 
culin) is prepared by growing tubercle bacilli in glycerine veal 

1 Trans. British Congress on Tuberculosis, 1901, vol. iv. p. 3. 
2 Ibid. p. 8. 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 135 

broth for some months, filtering out the bacilli through porce- 
lain, and evaporating to one-tenth its bulk. It is therefore 
essentially a concentrated glycerine solution of the extra- 
cellular toxins of the tubercle bacillus. 

The nature of the test rests upon the fact that when 
tuberculin is injected into a healthy animal no constitutional 
disturbance takes place, but if the animal is affected with 
tuberculosis a considerable rise of temperature and other con- 
stitutional effects are manifest. 

To carry out the test properly requires skill and attention. 
The temperature of the cow is taken on several occasions 
beforehand to ascertain the normal temperature of the animal. 
A variation of 1^ degrees F. may be met with in animals in 
perfect health. The tuberculin is injected subcutaneously 
during the evening of the day on which the preliminary tempera- 
tures have been taken, and so as to allow an interval of about 
10 hours before next morning's milking. The temperature 
is taken every 2 hours from the 10th to the 18th to 20th 
hour after the injection. The more numerous the temperature 
takings the less liability of error. Some practical veterinary 
surgeons take only 3 or 4 temperature records after injection. 
The cows should be under as quiet and natural conditions as 
possible during the test. A rise of 2*0 degrees F. above the 
normal, if gradual and distributed over a time period of several 
hours with gradual decline, indicates a positive reaction. A 
sharp brief rise and fall of the temperature does not con- 
stitute a positive reaction. Some authorities regard a rise 
of 1'5 degrees as constituting a positive reaction, others 
consider a rise of no more than this as merely suspicious. 

The Chicago tuberculin test ordinance requires : " The 
temperature shall be taken at least 4 times on the day pre- 
ceding the inoculation, and at least 6 times on the day follow- 
ing the inoculation, at not less than 2 hour intervals. A rise 
of 2 degrees over the average temperature on the day preced- 
ing the inoculation shall be considered a positive test. If a rise 
of from lJr degrees to 2 degrees is obtained, the results shall be 
considered doubtful, and the animal subjected to a later retest." 

I am enabled by the kindness of Sir John McFadyean to 
give the following examples of reactions to tuberculin, all 
from the one herd : 



136 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



Animal. 


Initial 
Temperature 12th hour. 
(F.) 


15th hour. 


18th hour. 


A 


101-8 105 


105 


105 


B 


101 106 


105-5 


105 


C 


102-8 105-5 


106-5 


106 


D 


101 105 


104-5 


104-5 


E 


101 105 


105 i 105 


F 


101-2 103-5 


104-5 


104 



Carried out properly the tuberculin test is extremely 
reliable, the error not being more than about 3 per cent. 
The test, however, requires to be carried out by a veterinary 
surgeon, 1 while there are several sources of error. 

Sources of Error. 1. Cattle may be tested in an unsuit- 
able condition. The cows, for example, should not be tested 
directly after such general disturbances as removal to fresh 
sheds, travelling, exposure to hot sun, or marked changes of 
food. The test should not be applied within a few days 
before or after calving, nor while in " heat." 

2. Defective tuberculin may be used. 

3. Animals suffering from advanced tuberculosis may fail 
to react. This error is readily obviated by clinical examina- 
tion. 

4. The animal may have been previously treated with 
tuberculin. This is usually done fraudulently. The first 
injection must be recent to be a source of error, as after 
a month from the first injection it is unusual to find the 
animal not reacting. 

5. The animal may be infected with tubercle bacilli, but 
owing to insufficient time no lesions may have developed. 
Such an animal will fail to give a reaction, but will sub- 
sequently do so. 

6. The lesions may be very slight and difficult to find, so 
that a reacting animal post-mortem may, on insufficient ex- 
amination, fail to show signs of tuberculosis. 

1 A feature of the Wisconsin, U.S.A., system for the control of bovine 
tuberculosis is that many of the tuberculin tests are performed by the farmers 
themselves. The farmers must, however, have undergone training and in- 
struction in the work at the Agricultural College. Also they are not allowed 
to make the diagnosis, only to carry out the inoculations and record the tempera- 
tures on a chart. The actual diagnosis is made by the authorities at the 
Wisconsin Experiment Station from the records received from the farmers. 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 137 

This is not really a source of error, it only appears to be 
one. These instances usually occur among animals for which 
extensive dissection is impracticable owing to their having to 
be dressed for sale. 

Nocard, 1 a strong supporter of the tuberculin test, makes 
this very clear. He remarked : " Speaking for myself I have, 
up to now, personally and publicly performed 500 autopsies 
of animals which had reacted to tuberculin. In three cases 
only have I failed to find the lesion sought for ; but some- 
times it has taken a long time, half-an-hour, three-quarters 
of an hour, and more, before I could put my hand on some 
miliary granulations buried in the depth of the lung or 
scattered in the thickness of a lymphatic gland." 

Stated another way, it is sometimes objected to the test 
that it is too sensitive and detects even the slightest and 
most latent cases of tuberculosis. From the point of view of 
clearing a herd of tuberculosis it is very necessary to re- 
cognise that these early and latent cases will, almost all 
eventually and some rapidly, develop into marked cases which 
will extend the disease and become a source of infection to 
the milk. 

The above sources of error can, for the most part, be 
guarded against, and rather illustrate the need for care in 
using the test than any unreliability in the test itself. 

During the last few years additional tests have been 
advocated for the diagnosis of tuberculosis in both man and 
animals. Those include the ophthalmo-tuberculin test and 
Von Pirquet's skin reaction test. These tests appear to be 
of but limited value in the diagnosis of bovine tuberculosis, 
but extended experience is desirable. 

THE METHODS OF SPREAD OF BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS 

Infection is usually introduced into a herd by the 
addition of an animal suffering from tuberculosis. The in- 
fectivity of the introduced animal will depend upon the 
extent to which it is excreting tubercle bacilli. From this 
point of view reacting tubercular cows may be divided into 
three groups: (a) slight cases reacting to tuberculin, but 

1 Trans. Br. Congress on Tuberculosis, 1901, vol. iv. p. 10. 



138 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

with lesions not communicating with the exterior, so that 
no tubercle bacilli are excreted ; (&) cows apparently healthy 
but suffering from " open " tuberculosis and as such excreting 
tubercle bacilli ; (c) cows with distinct clinical tuberculosis. 

The last group is the source of most massive infection, 
but the second, being usually unrecognised, may have the 
greatest range of infectivity. The actual channels of infection 
are apparently sometimes through the respiratory and some- 
times through the digestive tract. The opportunities for 
infection will vary with the condition of the byre and the 
degree of association of the cows in it. In well-lit, well- 
ventilated, and properly constructed byres with well looked 
after animals the chances of infection are of course reduced. 
Delepine, for example, records that a larger number of 
samples of milk containing tubercle bacilli were obtained 
from farms in an insanitary condition. 

In addition to direct infection from cow to cow there is 
another, much less common, but very dangerous method of 
spread : this is from the use of skim -milk infected with 
tubercle bacilli to feed calves. In cases in which the skim- 
milk is returned from a milk factory or creamery, very wide- 
spread infection may in this way result. 

Eussell l records a very interesting illustration of this 
method of spread in Wisconsin State, U.S.A. It was the 
practice of cowkeepers supplying creameries to take back the 
skim -milk to feed the calves. This skim -milk is mixed 
indiscriminately at the creamery, and thus affords a ready 
means for disseminating any pathogenic bacilli in the milk 
from one herd to another. By means of the tuberculin reaction 
Eussell studied the distribution of tuberculous cows in the areas 
of certain creameries. These creameries received their milk 
from a number of different cowkeepers, and by separating the 
figures for the different creameries he obtained definite 
evidence of infection through the skim-milk. This is seen in 
the following table, which shows that 34'5 and 24'0 per cent 
of the cows in connection with the Medina and Oak Park 
creameries were tuberculous, as compared with 8*5 and lO'O 
per cent from other creameries. In the case of the two 
infecting creameries nearly all the animals were raised on the 

1 Wisconsin University, Agricultural Experiment Station Butt. 143, 1907. 



VII 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 



139 



farm, while the greater part of those reacting in groups A and 
B had been purchased from outside sources. 

Summary of Tuberculin Tests. 





Number 


Number 


Number 


Number 


Per 


Results of Slaughter. 


Creamery. 


of Herds 
tested. 


of Herds 
reacting. 


of 

Animals 
tested. 


of 
Animals 
reacting. 


cent 
affected. 


Number 
passed. 


Number 
condemned. 


Medina 


36 


33 


784 


271 


34-5 


105 


123 


Oak Park 


24 


14 


429 


103 


24-0 


34 


61 


Group A 


66 


42 


1249 


106 


8-5 






B 


12 


8 


218 


21 


10-0 


... 





Group A = & group of 7 creameries immediately adjacent to Medina 

and Oak Park. 

B = a group of 4 creameries near but not contiguous to Medina 
and Oak Park. 

Of the 184 animals condemned after slaughter as many 
as 110 showed invasion of lymph glands of body cavity or 
liver. 

THE PREVALENCE OF TUBERCLE BACILLI IN DAIRY PRODUCE 

Milk. The table on page 332 shows the percentage of 
tubercle bacilli found in a number of milk samples as supplied 
to a number of the large cities in England. 

The milk supply of the smaller areas appears to be no 
better, in fact it is probably infected with tubercle bacilli 
even more extensively. For example, out of 28 samples of 
milk supplying Wakefield 1 4 contained tubercle bacilli, a 
percentage of 14'3. Kanthack and Sladen 2 examined the 
milk supply of the different colleges in Cambridge. Milk 
from 16 dairies was examined, 3 specimens being collected 
from each. Nine of the 1 6 dairies showed tubercle bacilli in 
the milk, as demonstrated by guinea-pig inoculations. 

Investigations in other countries show an equally high 
percentage of tubercle bacilli in market milk. In Washington * 

1 Medical Officer, Sept. 3, 1910. 

2 Lancet, 1899, vol. i. p. 74. 

3 Bulletin No. 41, Public Health and Marine Hospital Service, U.S.A., 
1908, p. 191. 



1 40 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

11 samples of milk from 102 dairies contained tubercle 
bacilli (10'7 per cent). Hess 1 examined samples of New 
York raw market milk. Excluding cases in which the 
guinea-pigs died without results being obtainable, out of 107 
samples 17 (16 per cent) set up tuberculosis in the animals. 

In Germany very similar results have been obtained. 
For example, Petri, in 1898, found 14 per cent of Berlin milk 
containing tubercle bacilli, and Beck in 1900 found 30;3 per 
cent infected. In Leipzig, Eber, in 1908, found 10'5 per 
cent positive. 

Butter. The investigations of numerous workers have 
proved that tubercle bacilli are not infrequently present in 
butter. The proportion of samples in which they have been 
found to be present has varied considerably in the different 
investigations. For some of them, particularly the earlier 
work, it is not clear that the lesions produced by the acid-fast 
butter bacillus were in all cases clearly differentiated from 
those produced by the tubercle bacillus ; but with due allow- 
ance for this, it is evident that the proportion of butter 
samples containing virulent tubercle bacilli is a high one. 

No English results are available to the writer, but the 
following are a few examples out of many Continental ones. 

A number of examinations of Berlin butter have been 
made from time to time. Obermiiller, in 1897, examined 14 
samples and found tubercle bacilli in all of them. Eabino- 
witsch, in 1897, examined 30 Berlin butters and failed to 
find tubercle bacilli in any of them. In the same year she 
examined 50 samples of Philadelphia butter, all also with 
negative results. In 1899, however, the same investigator, 
out of 15 Berlin butters, found 2 to contain tubercle bacilli 
(13'3 per cent). In 1898 Hermann and Morgenroth found 
4 out of 13 Berlin butters to contain virulent tubercle bacilli 
(3 0'7 per cent). 

In other towns similar results have been obtained. Thus 
Beitz, in 1906, found 8 out of 96 samples of Stuttgart butter 
to contain tubercle bacilli (8 '5 per cent). Both, in 1894, 
found tubercle bacilli in 2 out of 20 samples of Zurich butter 
(10 per cent), and Tobler, in 1901, found tubercle bacilli in 
2 out of 12 samples of Zurich butter (16 '7 per cent). Eber, 

1 Trans. 6th International Congress on Tuberculosis, 1908, iv. pt. ii. p. 523. 



VII 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 141 

in 1908, examined 150 samples of Leipzig butter, and in 18 
found tubercle bacilli (12 per cent). 

Cheese. Hermann and Morgenroth found tubercle bacilli 
in 3 out of 15 samples, Kabinowitsch in 3 out of 5 samples, 
Harrison in 3 out of 5 samples, and Eber in 2 out of 50 
samples. 

BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS AS A CAUSE OF HUMAN DISEASE 

The relationship of human to bovine tuberculosis is a 
subject which has been much discussed, but which may now 
be said to rest on a fairly sure basis. The earlier conception 
assumed a nearly complete unity between the tuberculosis of 
man and of cattle, based upon the histological identity of 
the lesions and the close similarity of the bacilli obtained 
from the two sources. This view was very clearly expressed 
and emphasised by the Eoyal Commission on Tuberculosis, 
who, in their Report (1895, Part i.), stated: 

We find the present to be a convenient occasion for stating 
explicitly that we regard the disease as being the same disease in 
man and in the food animals, no matter though there are differences 
in the one and the other in their manifestations of the disease ; and 
that we consider the bacilli of tubercle to form an integral part of 
the disease in each, and (whatever be its origin) to be transmissible 
from man to animals, and from animals to animals. 

Investigators had pointed out from time to time certain 
differences of virulence, morphology, etc., while in particular, 
in 1896, Theobald Smith drew attention to differences of 
morphology, cultural characters, and virulence between the 
bacilli derived from human and bovine sources. In particular 
he showed that human tubercle bacilli inoculated into cattle 
produced either no tuberculosis or only local non-generalised 
lesions. The view of the inherent identity of the bacilli from 
animal sources was, however, generally accepted until 1901, 
when Koch, at the British Congress on Tuberculosis, lent the 
weight of his unique authority to the conception that human 
and bovine tuberculosis are, for practical purposes, distinct 
diseases, and that the cases in which human infection results 
from bovine tuberculosis are so rare that special methods 
against bovine tuberculosis are not required. 

The immense practical importance of the subject led to the 



1 42 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

prompt appointment of another English Royal Commission on 
Tuberculosis (still sitting, 1911), while fresh investigations to 
settle the matter were undertaken in many other parts of the 
world. The general result has been to unmistakably demon- 
strate that bovine tuberculosis is a source of human tuber- 
culosis. The most conclusive evidence of this fact is set out 
in the reports giving the very careful and valuable work of 
the English Eoyal Commission. 1 Their conclusions and facts, 
as far as they bear upon this specific matter, and as far as 
they are yet published, are as follows : 

There can be no doubt but that in a certain number of cases 
the tuberculosis occurring in the human subject, especially in 
children, is the direct result of the introduction into the human 
body of the bacillus of bovine tuberculosis ; and there also can be 
no doubt that, in the majority at least of these cases, the bacillus 
is introduced through cows' milk. Cows' milk containing bovine 
tubercle bacilli is clearly a cause of tuberculosis and of fatal tuber- 
culosis in man. 

A very considerable amount of disease and loss of life, especially 
among the young, must be attributed to the consumption of cows' 
milk containing tubercle bacilli. The presence of tubercle bacilli 
in cows' milk can be detected, though with some difficulty, if the 
proper means be adopted, and such milk ought never to be used 
as food. 

In their Final Report (1911) they are even more definite, 
and state : 

. . . There can be no doubt that a considerable proportion of the 
tuberculosis affecting children is of bovine origin, more particularly 
that which affects primarily the abdominal organs and the cervical 
glands. And further, there can be no doubt that primary abdom- 
inal tuberculosis as well as tuberculosis of the cervical glands is 
commonly due to ingestion of tuberculous infective material. 

The important and extended work done by Dr. Nathan 
Raw deserves mention in this connection. 

Raw, in 1 9 3 ' 2 and in subsequent communications, very 
clearly expressed the view that while human and bovine 
tuberculosis are separate and distinct diseases, the human body 
is susceptible to both, and especially to bovine tuberculosis in 
the early period of life. He based this opinion almost entirely 

1 Royal Commission on Tuberculosis, Second Interim Report, 1907. 
-' British Medical Journal, 1903, i. p. 596. 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 143 

on clinical and pathological evidence. In his opinion, such 
diseases as Tabes mesenterica, tuberculous glands in the neck, 
etc., were of essentially bovine origin. 

The communicability of the bovine bacillus has been also 
shown by numerous other investigations. The valuable work 
of Hamilton and Young in this country may be specially 
mentioned. Additional evidence is also forthcoming from 
the numerous recorded cases in which there has been direct 
evidence of infection of man from bovine sources, generally 
from accidental inoculation. 

From the numerous investigations it has now been estab- 
lished that there are two chief types of tubercle bacilli a 
bovine type and a human type which are differentiated by 
their cultural characters, and especially by the different patho- 
genic properties. In brief, the bovine type grows with a 
scantier growth and with greater difficulty upon artificial 
culture media, but is much more pathogenic, causing local and 
generalised tuberculosis when inoculated into bovines, and 
acute tuberculosis when intravenously injected into rabbits. 
On the other hand, the human type does not, as a rule, cause 
tuberculosis in rabbits, and only a localised and retrogressive 
tuberculosis when inoculated into bovines. These differences 
are set out in greater detail in Chapter XIII. 

How far the two types are simply varieties evolved by 
environment cannot be said to be yet established, but from 
the occurrence of intermediate types, gradations being met 
with between the extremes of the two types, from the fact 
that the differences are of degree rather than kind, and from 
the fact that some investigators have been able to consider- 
ably modify the human type by passage through animals so 
that it acquires many of the characters of bovine bacilli, the 
evidence is in favour of a common origin and an essential 
unity of the two types. 

The Tuberculosis Commissioners sum up the matter as 
one concerning which there is room for difference of opinion, 
and add : " We prefer to regard these two types as varieties 
of the same bacillus, and the lesions which they produce, 
whether in man or in other mammals, as manifestations of 
the same disease/' 

From the available evidence it may be accepted that a 



i 4 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP 

certain proportion of the cases of human tuberculosis are due 
to infection of the human body with tubercle bacilli of bovine 
origin. The exact proportion is still a matter of dispute and 
uncertainty. A large number of facts have, however ; been 
ascertained which give some idea of the probable amount of 
tuberculosis of bovine origin in man. 

The English Eoyal Tuberculosis Commission (1901-11) l 
investigated 108 cases of human tuberculosis other than lupus. 
The following is a tabular summary of their results : 





Number 


Tubercle Bacilli isolated. 


Nature of Cases. 


investi- 
gated. 


Bovine 


Human 


Mixed 
Viruses 






Viruses. 


Viruses. 


(Bovine and 










Human). 


Primary pulmonary tuberculosis 


14 





14 





Sputum from individual cases ; 






of pulmonary tuberculosis . 28 2 


O * 

.zo 





General tuberculosis ..30 


3 





Tuberculous meningitis ..30 


3 





Bronchial gland tuberculosis . 5 





o 


2 


Cervical gland tuberculosis . 9 


3 


6 





Primary abdominal tuberculosis 29 


14 


13 


2 


Joint and bone tuberculosis . 14 





13 


1 


Tuberculosis of testicle, of kid- 








ney, of suprarenal (1 case of 








each) .... 


3 





3 







108 


19 


84 


5 



In connection with these results the Commissioners 
remark : 

Although the bovine tubercle bacillus may, as it appears, be 
solely responsible for certain cases of pulmonary tuberculosis (con- 
sumption), and though it may be present with the human tubercle 
bacillus in the bronchial glands, it is evident from the data recorded 
that the majority of cases in which the bovine tubercle bacillus is 
the infective agent in the human being are cases of alimentary 
tuberculosis. Such are cases of cervical gland and primary ab- 
dominal tuberculosis. In the latter class of cases at least the 
tubercle bacillus has unquestionably been swallowed. Received in 
this way the tubercle bacillus, whether human or bovine, may pass 
througli the pharyngeal or buccal mucous membrane and infect the 

1 Final Report, 1911. 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 145 

cervical glands, or getting into the small intestine it may produce 
several different lesions, such as ulceration of the gut, tuberculosis 
of the mesenteric glands attached, and of the peritoneal covering. 
The percentage of these cases of alimentary tuberculosis due to the 
bovine tubercle bacillus is very large. Taking both classes of cases 
(cervical gland and abdominal) together, numbering 38, there are 
17 in which the bovine bacillus alone was found, 19 in which the 
human bacillus alone was found, and 2 in which both were found. 
Taking the primary abdominal cases alone it is seen that in 16 
out of 29 the bovine bacillus was found; in 14 of these it was 
the sole infective agent present. 

The German Tuberculosis Commission l examined 5 6 cases 
of human tuberculosis, and in 6 of them found the bovine 
tubercle bacillus as the cause of the tuberculosis. All the 
findings were in children under seven years of age. The 
nature of the cases was as follows : 2 cases of tuberculosis of 
the mesenteric glands, and one each of the following 
abdominal tuberculosis with caseating mesenteric glands, cal- 
careous tubercle of mesenteric glands with tubercles in spleen 
and pleurae, general miliary tuberculosis, including lungs and 
meninges, acute miliary tuberculosis, involving practically all 
organs. Out of 10 cases of primary intestinal and mesenteric 
gland tuberculosis 5 were infected with bovine and 5 with 
human bacilli, and of 3 cases of cervical gland tuberculosis 
in children under ten 2 showed bovine and 1 human tubercle 
bacilli. 

Eecently Oehlecker has studied the bacilli from 14 con- 
secutive cases of primary cervical adenitis. Two cases were 
in adults, and in both of these cases human bacilli were 
isolated. The remaining 12 cases were in children, and from 
4 others the bovine tubercle bacillus was obtained. 

Lewis 2 studied the types of tubercle bacilli isolated 
from 15 consecutive cases of tuberculous cervical adenitis. 
In all cases the material was glands removed by operation. 
Nine of the cultures were of bovine and 6 of human type. 
Apart from modifications due to the age of the patients there 
were no differences in the clinical or pathological picture. The 
bovine bacilli were from patients 1^ to 18 years old (average 

1 Tuberkulose Arbeiteii a. d. Kais. Ges. Amt. 1904-1905, Heft i. 

2 Trans. 6th Internal. Congress on Tuberculosis ( Washington}, vol. iv. pt. 2, 
p. 692. 

L 



146 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

age 8^ years), while the human tubercle bacilli were from 
patients 8 to 32 years old (average age l7- years). 

Fibiger and Jensen * tested upon cattle the virulence of 
bacilli from 29 cases of tuberculosis in man. Eight of 
these cases contained bacilli able to produce generalised 
tuberculosis in cattle in the same way as the bacilli most 
frequently found in spontaneous tuberculosis in cattle. They 
may therefore be considered as bacilli of bovine type. In 
6 of them the patients were children (4 months to 7 years 
old). In 5 of the children the tuberculosis was undoubtedly 
primary, and in 1 child it was probably primary in the in- 
testines and mesenteric glands. 

" Information in these cases has proved that 3 children 
had for a long time (2-|- months to 4 years) been fed partly 
on raw milk, produced, in one case, from a very tuberculous 
stock and containing a cow with tuberculosis of the udder. 
In a fourth case, the child had been partly fed, probably for 
a year, on unboiled milk, only warmed up." In the seventh 
and eighth cases the patients were male adults. From 
the autopsy it was quite probable that the seventh was also 
a case of primary tuberculosis of the intestines. 

In the remaining 20 cases of different kinds, 6 patients 
were children. In all of them the isolated bacilli possessed 
only a very low degree of virulence for cattle or no virulence 
at all. Of these 20 cases, primary abdominal tuberculosis 
was found in 1 child and 3 adults ; generalised tuberculosis 
in 2 children. In one case the bacilli were found only by 
the inoculation of a guinea-pig with an apparently quite 
healthy mesenteric gland from a child without any tuberculous 
lesions. One was a case of tuberculous mammae, and 10 
were consumptive adults whose sputum had been used for 
isolating the cultures. 

One of the most recent and important contributions to 
this aspect of tuberculosis is that of Park and Krumwiede 2 
and their assistants. These investigators determined the 
type of tubercle bacillus present in tuberculous material sent 

1 Tram. Gfli Interned. Conyress on Tuberculosis (Washington), vol. iv. pt. 2, 
p. 672. 

' 2 ''The relative Importance of the Bovine and Human Types of Tubercle 
Bacilli in the different Forms of Human Tuberculosis," Studies from the Research 
Laboratory, Department of Health, New York City, vol. v., 1910. 



VII 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 



to them from different institutions and from a variety of 
sources, and examined regardless of the type of infection. 
The tubercle bacilli were all, in the first place, isolated by 
guinea-pig inoculation. In addition to their own work they 
also tabulated the results of their own and 17 other groups 
of investigators into one combined table. Their own results 
and the combined results are shown in the two following 
tables : 

Tabulation of their oivn Cases. 





Adults 16 
years and 


Children 
5 to 10 


Children tinder 
5 years. 


: 




over. 


years. 




1 


Diagnosis of Cases examined. 








a 


a; 


a 






3 




03 


a 




B 


03 




^ a? 


o 




a 


> 


^ 




g 


"S 


l 


H 




p 


o 




o 


5 


o 








B 


M 


B ' 


P3 


a 


m 


H 




Pulmonary tuberculosis . 


278 


... 


8 




5 




291 


Tuberculous adenitis. Inguinal and 


















axillary ..... 


1 




4 




... 






5 


Tuberculous adenitis cervical . 


9 




19 


8 


6 


12 




54 


Abdominal tuberculosis . 


1 




1 


1 




3 




6 


Generalised tuberculosis. Alimentary 


















origin ...... 










1 


1 




2 


Generalised tuberculosis . 


2 


... 


1 




12 


4 




19 


Generalised tuberculosis, including 
















meninges ..... 


.. 








18 


1 


1* 


20 


Tubercular meningitis 





1 




14 


1 




16 


Tuberculosis of bones and joints 


1 




10 




6 






17 


Genito-urinary tuberculosis 


3 


1 


1 










5 


Tuberculous abscesses 


1 




... 










1 


Totals 


296 


1 


45 


9 


62 


22 


1 


436 



* Double infection. Both types isolated. Child 13 months old. The 
mesenteric nodes gave human type. Meningeal fluid gave bovine type. 



[TABLE 



148 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



Combined Tabulation, Cases reported including their own 
series of Cases. 





Adults 
16 years and 


Children 
5 to 16 years. 


Children 
under 5 years. 


Diagnosis. 










Human. 


Bovine. 


Human. 


Bovine. 


Human. 


Bovine. 


Pulmonary tuberculosis 


568 


1(1) 


11 




12 




Tuberculous adenitis. Axillary 














or inguinal .... 


2 




4 




2 




Tuberculous adenitis cervical 


22 


1 


33 


20 


15 


20 


Abdominal tuberculosis 


15 


3 


7 


7 


6 


13 


Generalised tuberculosis. Ali- 














mentary origin 


6 


1 


2 


3 


13 


10 


Generalised tuberculosis 


28 




4 


1 


28 


5 


Generalised tuberculosis ; includ- 














ing meninges. Alimentary 














origin ..... 






1 




3 


8 


Generalised tuberculosis, includ- 














ing meninges .... 


4 




7 




45 


1 


Tubercular meningitis . 






2 




14 


2 


Tuberculosis of bones and joints . 


IS 


1 


26 




21 




Genito-urinary tuberculosis 


11 


1 


1 


1 






Tuberculosis of skin . 


1 




1 




1 




Miscellaneous cases. 














Tuberculosis of tonsils 








1 






Tuberculosis of mouth and cer- 














vical nodes .... 




1 










Tuberculous sinus or abscesses . 


2 












Sepsis, latent bacilli . 










1 




Totals 


677 


9 


99 


33 


161 


59 



Mixed or double infections, 4 cases. 
Total cases = 1042. 

This table shows that the bovine type of bacillus was 
found in only 1*3 per cent of the adults, but in 25*0 per cent 
of the children 5 to 16 years, and in 2 6 '7 per cent of the 
children under 5 years of age. When the phthisis cases are 
excluded, the adult percentage rises to 7*3. 

These investigations and figures (and others which limits 
of space forbid quoting) show that while pulmonary tubercu- 
losis is almost invariably of human origin, a considerable pro- 
portion of the cases of other varieties of tuberculosis, especially 
glandular and intestinal infections in children, are infected 
with bacilli of bovine type, arid derived from bovine sources. 
It is not possible to determine with any precision the exact 



TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 149 

proportion of human cases of bovine origin, until the accumu- 
lation of further facts and the more precise differentiation of 
the types of tubercle bacilli. Woodhead quotes Cobbett as 
calculating from the data of the English Koyal Commission, 
that about 7 per cent of the cases with which we have to 
deal are infected with bacilli of bovine origin. Woodhead 
thinks this figure represents an under-statement. Whatever 
the exact proportion, it cannot be regarded as other than a 
serious menace to health. 

There is also a possibility which, if true, will make the 
percentage of human tuberculous cases of bovine origin much 
higher. The differences between the types of bacilli are differ- 
ences of degree, and it is a possible supposition that bovine 
bacilli ingested in early life may, under the influence of a 
human environment, be extensively modified in type, and 
ultimately approach the human type. The isolated bacilli 
being then of human type, the infection will be ascribed to 
a human source while really bovine in origin. There are 
some facts in support of this hypothesis, but the whole 
question must await the results of fuller investigations. 

In addition to the bacteriological evidence, statistics as to 
the extensive prevalence of abdominal tuberculosis in children 
furnish strong evidence that the path of infection is by in- 
gestion in many of these cases. For example, Still, from 269 
autopsies on tuberculous children under twelve years, came to 
the conclusion that in G4 per cent infection was through the 
lungs, and in 29 per cent through the alimentary canal. In 
infants under one year, apparently only 13 per cent contracted 
tuberculosis through the intestine. Shennan, dealing with the 
autopsies at the Eoyal Hospital for Sick Children in Edin- 
burgh, put the percentage of cases infected through the 
alimentary canal at 28'1. Woodhead found that out of 127 
cases of tuberculosis in children, in 100 tuberculosis of the 
mesenteric glands was present, while in 43 there was ulceration 
of the intestine. 

The following tables given by Dr. J. Thomson 1 show that 
abdominal tuberculosis is a condition which is prevalent to a 
considerable extent amongst children in Great Britain. 

1 British Journal of Tuberculosis, 1907, vol. i. p. 250. 



150 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Eoyal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh. 





1897. 


1898. 


1899. 


1900. 


1901. 


1902. 


1903. 


1904. 


1905. 


1906. 


Average. 


Number of in-patients 
























admitted . 


1154 


1219 


1361 


1398 


1533 


1597 


1504 


1596 


1844 


2114 


1532 


Percentage of abdomi- 
























nal tuberculosis 


3-63 


3-75 


2-57 


4-36 


2-73 


3-63 


4-98 


3-82 


3-14 


3-20 


3-57 


Percentage of tubercu- 






















lous meningitis 


3-29 


2-87 


2-42 


2-21 2-02 


1-63 


212 


1-12 


1-57 


1-27 


2-05 



Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow. 



Number of in-patients 
admitted . 

Percentage of abdomi- 
nal tuberculosis 

Percentage of tubercu- 
lous meningitis 



1897. 


1898. 


1899. 


1900. 


! 

1901. j 1902. 


1903. 


1904. 


1905. 


1906. 


Average. 


691 


744 


741 


714 


738 


854 


996 


941 


1125 


1075 


882 


4-05 


4-30 3D] 


3-92 


5-28 


4-58 


4-32 


5-10 


5-24 


4-46 


4-51 


2-17 


2-28 ; 1-21 : 2-24 


2-03 


i -<;3 


2-00 


2-76 


1-60 


3-49 


2-14 


1 

















Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, London. 





1897. 


1898. 


1S99. 


1900. 


1901. 


1902. 


1903. 


1904. 


Number of in-patients 
admitted . 
Percentage of abdomi- 
nal tuberculosis 
Percentage of tubercu- 
lous meningitis 


1946 
0-66 
1 '49 


2067 
I'll 

0-72 


1962 
1'32 
1 -52 


1690 
1-71 

1-88 


2111 
1-46 
1-27 


2236 
1 -1)1 
I'll 


2403 
2-03 
1-16 


2537 
2-24 
1-65 



1905. 1906. Average. 



2876 
2-60 
1-53 



3068 
1-98 
1-85 



2289 
1-67 
1 -42 



The statistics of other London children's hospitals with 
regard to abdominal and meningeal tuberculosis seem to 
resemble those of Great Ormond Street pretty closely. 

Dr. Thomson remarks that the smaller proportion of 
abdominal and of meningeal tuberculosis at Great Ormond 
Street is probably mainly due to there being a relatively 
smaller amount of all sorts of tuberculosis in London than in 
Scotland. 

In Germany, primary intestinal tuberculosis appears to be 
much less common. Thus Koch/ writing in 1902, remarks: 

In Germany, as far as I have been able to find statements on 
the subject in literature, and as far as my personal inquiries have 
reached, all authors have expressed the opinion that primary in- 



British Medical Journal, Dec. 20, 1902, p. 1885. 



vii TUBERCULOSIS OF THE COW 151 

testinal tuberculosis is with us a very rare occurrence. The only 
exception to this is at Kiel, where Heller has found 3 7 '8 per cent 
of primary intestinal tuberculosis at necropsies of tuberculous 
children. 

The value of such statistics in part depends upon the 
possibility of infection by ingestion without involvement of the 
intestine or even the raesenteric glands. There is a consider- 
able body of evidence showing that this may take place. 

Behring, in 1903, advanced a theory of phthisis causation 
to the effect that infection takes place in the early years of 
life, usually through cows' milk, the bacilli being absorbed 
through the intestine before the powers of resistance of the 
intestine are fully developed. The bacilli remain latent until 
the resistance of the individual is impaired, when the disease 
then becomes active. This view has not met with wide 
acceptance, and there are many facts which are against it. 

During recent years extended investigation has been carried 
out to study and determine the paths of infection in tuber- 
culosis. Careful experiments have proved conclusively that 
ingested tubercle bacilli may pass through the intestinal 
mucous membrane without causing any lesion. Griffith, for 
example, working for the Eoyal Commission on Tuberculosis, 
found that tubercle bacilli would pass through the intact 
mucous membrane of the dog's intestine, but not in large 
numbers or with any certainty. The evidence that they may 
pass through the mesenteric glands in addition without setting 
up morbid changes is, however, less firmly attested, and the 
existing facts cannot be accepted as settling the question. 

The matter is too controversial to be dealt with in detail 
in the space which is available, and involves the discussion of 
the whole question of the inhalation and ingestion theories of 
the paths of entry. After a careful review of the subject, 
Cobbett x gives his opinion that 

. . . while I believe that phthisis is commonly caused by the 
inhalation of tubercle bacilli, I do not deny that many cases of 
tuberculosis, especially in children, are caused by bacilli which gain 
entrance through the mucous membrane of the intestine. In such 
cases, I believe, there are usually lesions in the mesenteric glands, 
and not rarely in the gut itself. On the question whether tubercle 

1 Joimi. of Pathology and Bacteriology, 1910, xiv. p. 563. 



152 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH.VH 

bacilli ever get through these glands without producing disease in 
them, and settle down and cause lesions elsewhere, I maintain an 
open mind. I think it not unlikely that some cases of tuberculosis, 
possibly of primary bone or joint tuberculosis, have this kind of 
origin. I am quite prepared to believe that the glands are not a 
perfectly efficient barrier to the passage of microbes, but I think 
that the bacilli which get through them are not often numerous 
enough to set up disease, except perhaps in a locus minoris resistentiae 
in a constitutionally susceptible person. 1 

1 For a fuller consideration of this very important subject the following 
may, in particular, be consulted : Cobbett (in paper quoted) ; Schroeder, 
Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Bureau of Animal Industry (1908), pp. 138- 
145 ; Various papers by Investigators of the Breslau School ; Zeit.f. Hygiene, 
1908, vol. Ix. ; Sir J. McFadyean, Journ. Royal Inst. Public Health, 1910, 
xviii. p. 705. 



CHAPTEE VI11 

MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY . 

IT is not possible statistically to measure the extent to which 
dirty and contaminated or chemically unsuitable milk con- 
tributes to the morbility and mortality rates of infants and 
young children, since the different factors which conduce to 
our high rate of infant mortality are so inter-related. There 
can, however, be no doubfc that of these factors polluted milk 
is one of great potency. 

Apart from the evil effects of milk deficient in its full 
chemical constituents or t administered in incorrect quantities, 
effects which will not be dealt with here, milk is a cause of 
child mortality and ill-health in three distinct ways : 

(a) Milk is a not uncommon vehicle for the transmission 
of infectious fevers, and in this way shares in the mortality 
rates caused by these diseases. This relationship has been 
dealt with in Chapter V. 

(6) It has been shown that a considerable proportion of 
cases of tuberculosis in children are of bovine origin, and, 
for the most part, derived from milk infected with tubercle 
bacilli. This aspect of the subject has been considered in 
Chapter VII. 

(c) There is a large body of unimpeachable evidence 
showing that the mortality in hand-fed infants is very much 
higher than that of breast-fed infants, and that a large part 
of this mortality is due to infected food and particularly milk. 

The mortality from bacterially contaminated milk has not 
yet been dealt with and requires further consideration. 

The problem of infant mortality is a serious one, and has 
been engaging much expert attention during the last few 



i 5 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

years. While the death-rate has been steadily declining, the 
infant mortality rate, until within the past few years, has not 
shared in this decline. In spite of immense sanitary and 
social improvements, children under twelve months old were, 
up to a few years ago, dying as extensively as they did 
seventy to eighty years ago. The infantile mortality rate is 
still very high in spite of the recent decline. For example, 
during 1908 one- fifth of the total deaths at all ages in 
England and Wales occurred in infants in their first year 
of life. 

As is well known, this infant mortality rate varies greatly 
in different areas, being, for example, very high in mining 
counties like Durham and Glamorgan, and low in essentially 
rural counties like Somerset, Wiltshire, and Dorset. 

We have to consider sickness as well as deaths. As 
Newsholme remarks : 

It is fair to assume, in accordance with general experience, that 
the amount of sickness varies approximately with the number of 
deaths ; and there can be no reasonable doubt that in the counties 
having a high infant death -rate there is (apart from migration) 
more sickness and a lower standard of health in youth and in adult 
life than in counties in which the toll of infant mortality is less. 

One of the most important of the factors contributing to 
infantile mortality is the ravages of epidemic diarrhoea, a 
disease intimately related to an impure food supply. 

Epidemic diarrhoea is an acute infective disease which 
occurs almost entirely (certainly always in its epidemic form) 
in the summer, and which mainly affects children under two 
years of age. Certain epidemiological features are universally 
recognized, the chief being that it is a disease of the later 
summer months, that it only occurs to any extent when there 
is or has been immediately antecedently a high temperature, 
that it is in the main an urban disease, and that it is more 
prevalent in dry than in wet seasons. The disease is allied 
to food-poisoning outbreaks in that it is an infection, often an 
intoxication, of the gastro-intestinal tract. 

The infection is clearly conveyed by food, and is un- 
doubtedly bacterial in nature, although at present no one 
organism can be accepted as its cause. As regards causation, 
its relationship to hand- feeding is an outstanding one, as 



vni MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY 155 

shown by Newsholrne, Sandilands, Bichards, and very numerous 
other investigators. This is very clearly brought out in the 
following tables by Newsholme, 1 the second table giving the 
results as percentages. 

Method of feeding Infants under one year of age in Brighton. 





A. Census of 10,308 


B. Infants who died 




houses in house-to- 


house 


from Epidemic 




inspection in the three 


Diarrhoea in the three 




years 1903-5. 




years 1903-5. 




Age of infants in months. 


Age of infants dying 
in months. 




0-3 


3-6 


6-9 


9-12 


0-3 


3-6 


6-9 


9-12 


I. Suckled only 


271 


237 


186 


92 


5 


3 






Ditto and farinaceous food 


14 


29 


41 


69 


1 


1 




1 


,, ,, cows' milk 


5 


6 


7 


4 


1 








,, ,, condensed milk 


3 


6 


7 


1 


1 








II. Cows' milk only 


12 


32 


28 


18 


11 22 


7 


4 


Ditto and farinaceous food 


4 


26 


33 


33 


1 ... ; 4 


6 


III. Condensed milk only 


6 


12 


10 


11 


2 ; 16 12 


/ 


Ditto and farinaceous food 


2 


6 


10 


7 


3 ... 


1 


IV. Farinaceous food, including \ 
















patent food only men- I 
tioned, or " same food | 


4 


1 


2 


18 


1 


1 ... 


... 


as parents " 
















V. Unknown .... 




1 


5 


2 4 


2 


2 



Percentage of Infants under one year of age fed in 
different ways. 





A. In 10,308 
houses visited 
house-to-house 
(1259 infants). 


B. Among infants 
dying from 
Epidemic Diarrhoea 
(121 infants). 


I. Suckled only .... 


62-3 


6-5 


Ditto and farinaceous food 


12-1 


2-5 


,, cows' milk 


1-8 


1-7 


,, condensed milk . 


1-4 


0-8 


II. Cows' milk only . 


7-2 


36-0 


Ditto and farinaceous food . 


7-6 


9-1 


III. Condensed milk only 


3-1 


30-3 


Ditto and farinaceous food 


2-0 


3-2 


IV. Farinaceous foods only mentioned 


2-0 


1-7 


V. Unknown .... 


0-5 


8-2 




100 


100 



1 Journ. of Hygiene, 1906, vi. 139. 



156 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

While these facts are generally recognised there are 
several problems in relation to this subject which are still 
matters of controversy. For instance, there is no unanimous 
opinion as to whether infection is specific and due to a 
special organism or whether we have to deal with bacterial 
poisoning through the toxic products of a large number of 
bacteria such as B. coli, etc. This question is connected with 
that of the case-to-case infectivity of the disease. 

Delepine ] found that milk samples received by him in 
hot weather, or after some time in transit, were infectious to 
guinea-pigs to a much higher degree than milk examined 
after only a short interval, or for which proper precautions 
had been taken to keep it cool. From his investigations he con- 
cluded that " epidemic diarrhoea of the common type occur- 
ring in this country is, apparently in the great majority of 
instances, the result of infection of food by bacilli belonging 
to the colon group of bacilli, which are present at all times 
in faecal matter." He further concluded that the disease is 
only caused when the infection of the food is massive from 
the first, or the food is kept for a sufficient length of time 
and under conditions of temperature favouring the multiplica- 
tion of these bacilli. In his view the milk was frequently 
infected at the farm or during transit. 

On the other hand, there is a mass of evidence which is 
overwhelmingly in favour of the view that the place of 
infection is the home, and indeed any other supposition does 
not offer an adequate explanation of the facts. For example, 
the incidence, as Newsholme, Sandilands, the writer, and 
others, have shown, is proportionately higher on those fed 
with condensed milk (which is certainly infected in the 
home) than on those fed with cows' milk. 

Thus in an outbreak of epidemic diarrhoea causing over 
50 deaths, the figures for the feeding of children under one 
year of age were as follows : ' 2 

1 Journ. of Hijijlenc, 1903, iii. 68. 
- "NY. G. Savage, Annual Report, Colchester, 1904. 



VIII 



MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY 



Method of Feeding. 


Healthy Infants. 


Infants killed 
by Diarrhoea. 




Per cent. 


Per cent. 


Breast-fed, entirely or partially 


74 


10 


Cows' milk, entirely or with other food . 


12 


42 


Condensed milk, entirely or with other 






food ...... 


14 


48 



Again there is a marked difference between the inci- 
dence of this disease upon the babies of the rich and those of 
the poor. The comparative immunity of the rich cannot be 
adequately ascribed to boiling of the milk, since it is doubtful 
if heating of the milk is practised much more extensively by 
the well-to-do. The greater facilities for home infection at 
the houses of the poor is a far more likely explanation. 

Also, as Ballard and many investigators have pointed out, 
while the incidence of diarrhoea follows the earth temperature 
it does not correspond with that of the air temperature. As 
Sandilands l clearly points out, commenting upon this, the 
number of germs in milk is largely a question of temperature, 
and the higher the temperature of the air the more germs 
in the milk supply at that given time. Since the diarrhoea 
does not occur until some time after the onset of the hot 
weather it results that, during hot weather at the beginning 
or end of the summer, cows' milk containing enormous 
numbers of bacteria may be consumed with comparative 
impunity, and the incidence of diarrhoea is not directly in- 
fluenced by the number of bacteria occurring in cows' milk. 

A further fact is that a small proportion (under 10 per 
cent) of breast-fed infants get diarrhoea. Here the infection 
must be other than by cows' milk and must be due to domestic 
infection. 

It is probable that infantile diarrhoea is an infectious 
disease due to one specific micro-organism, and that it is 
infectious from case to case. Further, the actual place of 
infection is usually domestic, and does not originate with 
manurial pollution at the farm ; but this may not be true of 
all cases. 

Most medical officers and others who have had experience 

1 Journ. of Hygiene, 1906, vi. 77. 



158 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

of epidemic diarrhoea from the administrative aspect are 
satisfied as to its case -to -case infectivity, at least in some 
cases. Two examples may be mentioned. Epidemic diarrhoea 
has been a voluntary notifiable disease in Woolwich since 
1905. Dr. Sidney Davies, the medical officer of health, 
remarks in a valuable special report on this disease in 1908: 
" From the information obtained by the writer and the 
sanitary inspectors, there can be no doubt that the infection 
spreads from person to person in a family." By means of 
spot maps it was shown that there was a very marked group- 
ing of cases. 

Sandilands ] brought forward evidence that certain fatal 
forms of summer diarrhoea are communicable. He remarks, 
however 

. . . nevertheless communicability is by no means a conspicuous 
feature of epidemic diarrhoea in every case. Thus in 19 out of 
35 tenement houses in Kensington where deaths were registered as 
due to diarrhoea, no other cases occurred. Again in 25 out of 35 
fatal cases of diarrhoea, no source of infection was found in the 
families occupying the houses where these patients died. And 
lastly, in 22 families containing young children fatal diarrhoea 
occurred, and yet in these families 44 parents and 58 children 
were intimately exposed to infection without falling ill. In 5 
hospitals there is no evidence of the spread of diarrhoea from 
patient to patient, and the sum of the evidence suggests that 
diarrhoea is not more infectious than typhoid fever, and is not 
conveyed except by the same channels. 

In regard to the means by which the bacterial infection is 
transmitted from case to case the house fly has been suspect 
for many years, and the evidence implicating flies steadily 
grows in convincingness. The recent contribution by Niven - 
upon " Summer Diarrhoea and Enteric Fever " may be re- 
commended as a valuable epidemiological study of this 
relationship. 

In considering the relationship of milk and epidemic 
diarrhoea, while the balance of evidence is decidedly in favour 
of the view that the specific infection, which is the cause of 
the disease, is domestic in origin rather than derived from 

1 Trans. Royal Society of Medicine, 1910, vol. iii. p. 95. 
^ Trans. Royal Society of Medicine, Epidemiological Section, 1910, vol. iii. 
p. 131. 



VIII 



MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY 159 



the cowshed, it is not possible to exonerate faecal contamina- 
tion at the farm or in transit from blame. It cannot but 
be prejudicial to the infant intestine and vital powers to have 
to deal with milk laden with living intestinal bacteria and 
toxic products. Their activity may and probably does weaken 
the resistance of the body against specific infection with the 
organism of epidemic diarrhoea when that infection takes 
place. Indeed, there is some evidence that this actually results. 

Peters, 1 in a prolonged investigation upon diarrhoea in 
Mansfield, found no special incidence upon the milk of any one 
milkman. He found that the rise of diarrhoea incidence to a 
maximum in the second year with subsequent gradual decline, 
corresponded exactly with the frequency with which cows' milk 
appeared in the dietary of children throughout the first few 
years of life. On the other hand, milk as the cause of 
diarrhoea could be definitely ruled out for many of the older 
children. 

The possibly prejudicial effect of cows' milk in a general 
way and apart from containing the specific organism of 
infantile diarrhoea is also suggested by the investigations of 
Scholberg and Wallis. 2 These observers studied the chemical 
and physical changes in milk produced as the result of 
bacterial contamination. They found that during the summer 
months, and more especially when the temperature of the air 
was rising, peptones appeared even in comparatively fresh 
samples of milk as supplied to the consumer. The quantity 
of albumoses and peptones present bore a definite relation to 
the time the sample was kept, and also to the temperature 
to which the milk was exposed. They furnish evidence that 
the peptone-like body and the peptones found in milk are 
toxic to infants, and the authors concluded that milk contain- 
ing these bodies was unfit for infant feeding. Their bacterio- 
logical results pointed to an intimate relationship between 
the quantitative and qualitative bacterial content and the 
appearance of peptone-like bodies in milk. 

Park and Holt 3 carried out an extended series of observa- 
tions extending over two years upon the results of feeding 

1 Journ. of Hygiene, 1910, x. 602. 

2 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1909-10, p. 504. 
3 Archives of Pediatrics, 1903, p. 881. 



160 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



infants in tenement houses in New York upon cows' milk. 
The investigation had three objects : 

(1) To make comparison of the results of infant feeding 
in tenements in winter and summer. 

(2) To determine how far such results were affected by the 
character of the milk used, especially its original bacterial con- 
tent, its preparation, and whether it was fed after heating or raw. 

(3) To see to what extent results were modified by other 
factors, such as the care the infants received and the surround- 
ings in which they lived. 

The observations were extensive, 632 infants being care- 
fully studied. In estimating the results obtained by the 
different methods of feeding, the factors considered were the 
gain or loss in weight and the amount of digestive disturbance, 
particularly diarrhoea, which occurred. 

They divided the cases into four groups. The results 
obtained were as follows : 

Food and Residts Winter. 





Did 
well. 


Did 
fairly. 


Did 
badly. 


Died. 


Totals. 


Store milk ...... 


47 


6 


2 





55 


Condensed milk ..... 


39 


5 


2 


9 


48 


Good bottled milk ..... 


51 


13 


1 


3 


68 


Milk from central distributing stations 


35 


20 


4 





59 


Best bottled milk ..... 


5 





1 





6 


Breast-feeding ...... 


7 


1 





1 


9 


Totals, excluding cases counted twice 


156 


41 


8 


6 


211 



Food and Results Summer. 





Did 
well. 


Did 

fairly. 


Did 
badly. 


Died. 


Totals. 


Store milk ...... 


21 


23 


20 


15 


79 


Condensed milk ..... 


22 


20 


14 


14 


70 


Good bottled milk ..... 


37 


23 


29 


9 


98 


Milk from central distributing stations 
Best bottled milk . . . 


84 
9 


33 
3 


24 



4 



145 
12 


Breast-feeding ...... 


17 


7 


7 





31 


Totals, excluding cases counted twice 


184 


108 


88 


41 


421 



MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY 161 



The summer results are of chief interest, and recorded as 
percentages, give the following table : 

Summer Results Percentages. 





Did 

well. 


Did 

fairly. 


Did 

badly. 


Died. 


Store milk ...... 


27 


29 


25 


19 


Condensed milk ..... 


31 


29 


20 


20 


Good bottled milk . 


38 


23 


30 


9 


Milk from central distributing stations 
Best bottled milk . 


58 
75 


23 

25 


16 




3 




Breast- feeding ...... 


55 


23 


23 





Average percentage .... 


44 


26 


21 


10 



The above milks used were briefly the following : 

Condensed Milk. The sweetened variety. 

Store Milk. The poorest grade of milk sold in New York. 
Bacterial content on average 3 to 20 millions per c.c. in 
summer, and about 400,000 per c.c. in winter; usually, 
however, heated in the homes before used for food. 

Bottled Milk. Fairly good. Milk averaged about 500,000 
per c.c. 

Milk from Central Distributing Stations. Mostly from 
the Straus Milk Depots. Supplied pasteurised. Before 
pasteurisation averaged about 2 million, and after about 500 
bacteria per c.c. Often modified for feeding, and supplied in 
small bottles, each one containing the quantity for a single 
feeding. 

It is not clear from the Report, but apparently many of 
the breast-fed infants also received other foods. 

As Park and Holt point out, there is a striking contrast 
between the summer and winter results. They draw attention 
to the large percentage of good results in the winter by all 
methods of feeding and the, apparently, so little difference 
between them. They believe that there are many factors to 
explain the differences between their summer and winter 
results, but that heat is the primary factor and bacteria and 
their products a secondary one, except when the contamination 
is extreme or pathogenic organisms are present. 

M 



1 62 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



The tables quoted are in favour of home infection for 
much of the diarrhoea, since the store milk was usually heated 
at home before feeding, and the condensed milk contained only 
few bacteria. 

The authors are emphatic upon the influence of con- 
taminated milk. They state that with the cleanest milk from 
the best cared for cattle the smallest number of bad results 
occurred. They also note that the difference between very 
bad, highly contaminated milk, like that purchased at some of 
the small stores previous to 1902, and the best bottled milk, 
was in some cases very striking. Protracted diarrhoea in 
infants who were taking store milk was often immediately 
improved, and in several cases promptly cured, by simply sub- 
stituting clean milk, after an interval of no milk, for the 
previous food. In some severe cases, however, no improvement 
followed the purer milk. 

The importance of clean milk is also shown by the 
comparison between the results of feeding with pasteurised 
and raw milk. These results are summarised in the following 
table : 



A 


^ ' 










1 


11 


|JL- 


1*1 


C> tJD 


|i 




Kind of Milk. o 
8 


gg 

EH G> 

11 


ls| 


|l 


s s 

**" ^ 


gt 

7 g 
txQ 


2 

53 




Q 




ii p 


< rt 'C 

> 13 3 


^M 


|l 








M ! 








i ' i 






Pasteurised milk, 1000 to 






j 






50,000 bacteria per c.c. 


41 


31 


10 


3 


4 07. 


3-9 


1 


Raw milk, 1,200,000 to 














20,000,000 bacteria per c.c. 


51 1 


17 


33 j 5-5 


3 '5 oz. 


11-5 


2 



1 Thirteen of the 51 infants on raw milk were transferred before the end of 
the trial to pasteurised milk because of serious illness. If these infants had 
been left on raw milk, it is believed by the writers that the comparative results 
would have been even more unfavourable to raw milk. 

Some further interesting results are recorded by Park and 
Holt in the following table. 



MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY 



163 



Table showing the results of feeding during July and August 1901, 
in tenement houses, of 112 bottle-fed infants under one year 
of age, and of 1^7 bottle-fed infants between one and two years 
of age with milk from different sources, and the number of 
bacteria present in the milk. 



Character of Milk. 



(1) Pure milk boiled and 

modified at dispensary or 
stations ; given out in 
small bottles. Milk be- 
fore boiling averaged 
20,000 bacteria per c.c. ; 
after boiling 2 per c.c. . 

(2) Pure milk 24 hours old, 

sent in quart bottles to 
tenements, heated and 
modified at home, 20,000 
to 200,000 bacteria per 
c.c. when delivered 

(3) Ordinary milk, 36 hours 

old, from a selected group 
of farms, kept cool in cans ' 
during transport ; 1 to 25 ; 
million bacteria per c.c., 
heated and modified at 
home before using . 

(4) Cheap milk, 36 to 60 

hours old, from various 
small stores derived from 
various farms, some fairly 
clean, some very dirty, 
400,000 to 175,000,000 
bacteria per c.c. 

(5) Condensed milk of differ- 

ent brands, made up with 
hot water. As given, 
contained bacteria from 
5000 to 200,000 per c.c. . 

(6) Breast milk . 



Infants under One Year. 


Infante over One Year. 


umber of 
Infants. 


d 

|| 

II 


Diarrhoea. 


1 

a 


J| 

3 


ft 


1 )iarrhoea. 


00 

.g 


2 


I 


1 


^ 


* 


$ 






* 


S 


2 


































41 


3 ox. 


10 


8 


l 1 

































23 



18 



21 



24 4Aoz. 



6 ! I 2 



12 



13 I 4- 1 7 



2*,, 



8 -2 



1 :! 



1 This infant died from enteritis and toxemia. 

2 This infant died of pneumonia. There had been no severe intestinal disorder 
noted. 

3 One of the four had pertussis, the remaining three died from uncomplicated 
enteritis. 



164 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Goler, Health Officer of Rochester, U.S.A., who has done 
valuable work in improving the milk supply of Eochester, 
a city of about 185,000 inhabitants, remarks: 1 

The Rochester milk work had its beginning in the summer of 
1897, when during July and August we began to establish summer 
milk stations, where milk put up in nursing bottles could be bought 
at a nominal price. . . . For the whole period of years from 1888 to 
1896 there were 6629 deaths in children under five years of age. 
For a similar nine-year period, from 1897 to 1905, there were 4403 
deaths in children under five years of age, a diminution of over 
30 per cent. These deaths represent all the deaths from all causes, 
and not merely those from intestinal diseases alone. 

Taking the deaths in July and August, he finds 

Total deaths under five years, July and August, first period, 
nine years without municipal milk stations = 2005. 

Total deaths under five years, July and August, second period, 
nine years with municipal milk stations 1000. 

Goler works upon the belief 

. . . that most babies become sick because they are infected by the 
bacteria and poisons of stable manure contained in dirty milk, and 
that to keep children well it is necessary to protect them from the 
dirt in milk just as much as we would protect them from diphtheria 
or scarlet fever infections. 

Goler, in another paper, 2 gives the interesting Chart repro- 
duced on the next page. It does not, of course, prove any re- 
lationship between the death-rate and the bacterial count, but 
the close association is interesting, and at least suggests that 
they may be related rather than both due to a common cause. 

1 Maryland Medical Journal, June 1906. 

2 Archives of Pediatrics, September 1906. 



[CHART 



viii MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY 



Rochester N.Y. 

Average number of Bacteria in Milk: Deaths under 5 years 
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nou. Dec 



i6 5 




i Bacteria average number per c.c. 
Deaths 1901-1905) nder5 
Deaths 1896-1900 > 

FIG. 4. 



Apart from the relationship of milk and infantile 
diarrhoea there have been several outbreaks of diarrhoea 
and sickness associated with cows' milk. These outbreaks 



1 66 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

are closely allied to the epidemics of sore throat and in- 
fectious disease considered in Chapter VI., and while they 
have no special relationship to infant mortality they show 
that milk may be a cause of human diarrhoea. 

The relationship between a pure milk supply and infant 
mortality is clearly shown by the accumulated evidence 
obtainable from the different institutions which supply pure 
milk to infants. Such institutions are the Gout de Lait and 
Consultation de Nourrissons in France, Milk Depots in 
England, and Milk Dispensaries in America. 

Dealing with some of the French results Budin * remarks : 

From 1892, when I instituted my first consultation, till June 
1899, counting only those infants who have been under my care 
for at least one month, or at most two years, I have had altogether 
435 nurslings ; 238 were exclusively breast-fed and 197 were on 
mixed or artificial feeding. Out of these 435, 32 have died, which 
make a general mortality of 7 '3 per cent. 

Of the deaths only one was due to diarrhoea, and this 
child during the day had been having impure milk in a day 
nursery. Other French figures are quoted by McCleary. 2 

The figures from the various milk depots established in 
England show that a much smaller number of the infants 
fed from them die compared with a proportionate number of 
infants not so fed, but otherwise similar. 

Many of the death-rates given for these infants fed at 
depots, compared with outside infants, are not reliable since 
they are based upon data not readily comparable, and the 
writer agrees with McCleary (op. cit.) that " it is doubtful 
whether the value of these institutions can, be expressed 
in figures. Clinical testimony is of far greater value than 
statistics, and this testimony is almost uniformly favourable 
to the depots." In particular the part played by the pure 
milk cannot be altogether disassociated from the other parts 
of the scheme the medical advice and the supervision of the 
homes by a health visitor which usually play a part. Care- 
fully used the figures from milk depots are, however, of value. 
The chief particulars of the Woolwich depot are mentioned 
on p. 356, and only the following need be mentioned here. 

1 Budin, The Nursling, 1907. 
2 Journ. of Hyyienc, 1904, iv. p. 329. 



MILK AND CHILD MORTALITY 167 

Davies found that during the three years the depot had 
been running 25 children fed on depot milk had died, the 
death-rate being 81 per 1000. He compares this with the 
death-rate of ordinary hand- fed children, which has been 
estimated at 198 per 1000, excluding the deaths of children 
in the first week of life, whose inclusion would greatly raise 
the death-rate. He found that depot-fed infants only ran 
one-fourth the risk of getting diarrhoea that other hand-fed 
children were exposed to. They were, however, much more 
prone to this disease than breast-fed children. 

In dealing with milk depot children it must be remem- 
bered that they are a specially selected class of weaklings, 
and usually do not remain long enough on the depot to fully 
profit by it. As Newman ' puts it, referring to the Finsbury 
Milk Depot : 

Taken as a whole, however, it is abundantly evident that the 
depdt fed children suffered much less from epidemic diarrhoea and 
all other diseases, than other artificially -fed children in the Borough, 
and even when they were attacked had a much lower mortality. 
And yet nearly all the depot children were of the very poorest 
classes ; all of them were artificially fed ; all were living at home 
and subject to precisely the same external conditions of life as 
other infants in the Borough, and although they formed a selected 
class of the weakest and most frail, " an unfit residuum " so to 
speak, of the children born in Finsbury. But they received pure 
milk and proper supervision and so they survived. 

Very valuable results have also been obtained in America 
by the different Milk Commissions and other agencies which 
distribute pure milk. Some of the results obtained are tabulated 
by Kerr. 2 The results cannot be given in the form of reliable 
death-rates, but the number of deaths when given are clearly 
few. The results obtained at Newark City (New Jersey) 
will serve as an example. Dr. Coit, who initiated the Babies' 
Hospital Milk Dispensary, writes : 3 

We feed about 500 infants in the tenement houses who are not 
admitted to our hospitals. They are brought to the annexe of the 
Babies' Hospital and Consultations, and are then placed upon 

1 Report on Infant Mortality in Finsbury, 1906. 

2 Bulletin No. ,50, Public Health and Marine Hospital Servi.ce, U.S.A., 1910. 
3 Personal communication. 



1 68 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH.VIH 

Certified Milk, properly modified, which is delivered by a messenger 
daily. Among 500 (568 accurately) infants, who received no 
other attention except this help during the year, the mortality is 
reduced to 2 '7 per cent by this means alone. The mortality in 
our city among this class is 25 per cent, sometimes 30 per cent. 
This was accomplished without the work of a visiting nurse to 
teach infant hygiene in the home, which might leave a doubt in 
our minds as to the influence of the milk. 



PAET II 

THE BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF MILK 



CHAPTEE IX 

GENERAL PARTICULARS AND PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE 

THE bacteriological examination of milk even up to a few 
years ago could not be said to be very satisfactory, and 
indeed, apart from tuberculosis, very little was systematically 
done, while in regard to the procedures that were carried out 
there was neither uniformity of method nor consensus of 
opinion as to what was desirable. Even at the present time 
it is by no means on a uniform or satisfactory basis. 

The bacteriological examination of milk may be utilised 
to give information in the three following directions : 

1. To measure the degree of contamination of the milk 
from faecal and other sources and its general bacterial con- 
tent. 

2. To ascertain the presence or absence of definite disease- 
producing organisms, e.g. B. diplitheriae, B. tubeiwdosis, B. 
typliosus. 

3. To obtain evidence as to the healthiness of the milk- 
producing apparatus of the cows which supply the milk. 

The procedures to be used will obviously require to be 
varied according to the purpose and objects of the examina- 
tion. The different methods are considered in detail in the 
following chapters. 

The chemical examination of milk is fully dealt with in 
numerous works dealing with that aspect of the subject and 
is not described in this book. The only chemical procedures 
dealt with are those, such as the detection of preservatives or 
the acidity estimation, which are intimately related to the 
bacterial content, or which have been used as rough indicators 
of the degree of bacterial contamination. 

171 



172 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Collection of Samples. Care in collection is necessary to 
obtain samples which are really representative of the milk 
to be examined. Ordinary samples of mixed milk may be 
collected at the byres or in course of transit or delivery. The 
cream and the sediment are the richest in bacteria, so that it 
is necessary to well mix the milk before a sample is withdrawn. 
If a sample representing all the mixed milk of the cows at 
the byre is required, it will be necessary for the collector to 
remove a definite quantity (e.g. half a gallon) from each churn 
and mix all the fractions in a clean empty churn or other 
vessel, and take the sample from this. 

In the collection of samples from individual cows care 
must be taken to avoid outside contamination. The cows' 
udders and teats must be washed carefully, and the milker 
must wash and disinfect his hands. The milk is milked 
direct into the bottle, the stopper being held by a second 
person by its free end to avoid contamination, and inserted 
immediately after the sample has been collected. The bottle 
should not have too narrow a mouth. In some cases it may 
be sufficient to collect a mixed sample from the four quarters, 
and then care should be taken to as nearly as possible obtain 
equal quantities of milk from each teat. In other cases it is 
necessary to collect a separate sample from each quarter. In 
general the fore milk should be rejected and middle milk 
sampled. In rare instances it may be necessary to collect 
fore, middle, and end milk samples from one special quarter 
or all of them. 

In the examination of sterilised milk or ordinary bottled 
milk an unopened bottle must be selected and used, or two or 
more bottles may be obtained and a representative sample 
made up from these. 

The milk should be collected in sterile bottles with 
accurately fitting glass stoppers. For the ordinary examina- 
tion of mixed milk a sample of about a pint is a convenient 
amount to obtain, but for most purposes a much smaller 
quantity is sufficient. The larger amount obviates some of 
the possible errors in sampling from irregular distribution of 
the bacteria. 

For samples from individual cows 2 oz. of milk is a suffi- 
cient quantity. The glass-stoppered bottles are sterilised in their 



IX 



PARTICULARS AND PROCEDURE 173 



tins, into which they just fit, being prevented from moving by 
layers of asbestos cardboard (A and B) above and below (Fig. 5), 

For larger samples the simple and efficient 
apparatus (Fig. 6) described by Delepine may be 
used. It consists of a metal case containing a 7 
or 8 oz. bottle and a milk-scoop. All the parts 
are thoroughly sterilised in the laboratory before 
being sent out, and the sterilised case is only 
opened at the time when the sample is taken. 
The sterilised scoop is used to remove the milk 
from the cans or other vessels. When obtained direct from 
a suspected cow, Delepine suggests that the milk may be 





FIG. 6. 



milked into the scoop, but it is better to milk direct into the 
bottles. 

If the samples have to be transmitted any distance, or 
cannot be examined within an hour or two, they must be 
packed in ice. The ice box figured (Fig. 6), used by Dele*- 
pine, which is similar to the apparatus the writer uses for 
bacteriological samples of water, is very convenient. The 



174 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

size the writer uses is made to just hold four 2 oz. bottles 
and their tins, but larger bottles are more convenient for milk 
samples. 

The growth of bacteria in milk kept at ice temperature, or 
only slightly above C., has been considered in Chapter IV. 
While, as explained in that chapter, some bacterial changes 
take place at these low temperatures, there is no material 
alteration or error of judgment involved in examining samples 
kept iced for not more than 12 to 20 hours. 

Particulars to record with the Samples. These must be 
carefully recorded, and should include : 

(a) Date and time of sampling. 

(&) Identification particulars as to farm or person from 
whom the milk is obtained. 

(/;) If mixed milk or from individual cows. 

(d} If mixed milk, whether collected from byre, in transit, 
in shop, etc., or as delivered. 

(e) If collected at the byre, the number of cows the milk of 
which it is a sample should be given, and whether the milk 
has been strained or not, and if so the strainer used. 

(f ) If from individual cows, particulars of the quarter or 
quarters from which obtained, and if fore, middle, or end milk. 

It is useful to take and record the temperature of the milk. 

Dilution of the Sample. In the bacteriological examina- 
tion of milk the proper dilution of the sample is of the utmost 
importance if accuracy is to be obtained. It is equally 
important that the milk should be thoroughly well shaken 
before dilution, and that the dilutions should be well mixed. 

Eosenau and McCoy l have shown that the number of 
bacteria in milk, as determined by plating, is affected by the 
extent to which the milk sample and dilutions have been 
shaken. This is also shown by the influence of milk separators 
on the bacterial count. 

Plating whole milk without dilution is always unreliable, 
even if the m'ilk contains but few bacteria, since the bacteria 
are not properly separated, while the addition of the milk causes 
turbidity and so obscures the bacterial colonies. 

The following is the most convenient method of dilution. 
A large number of glass-stoppered bottles of about 120 c.c. 

1 Journ. Med. Research, 1908, xviii. p. 165. 



PARTICULARS AND PROCEDURE 175 




1 76 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

capacity are used, each containing 90 c.c. of sterile tap-water. 
Sterile one-mark 10 c.c. pipettes are conveniently used to add 
the milk to the dilution bottles, and these should be made 
short for convenience of sterilisation. After thorough shaking 
10 c.c. of the milk is removed and added to a 90 c.c. dilution 
bottle (Dilution A). (See Fig. 7.) After well mixing 10 c.c, 
Dilution A is added to a second 90 c.c. bottle (Dilution B). 
In the same way Dilution C is made from B and Dilution 
D from C. Each dilution, of course, represents a tenfold 
dilution of the one immediately above it in series. 

Small 1 c.c. pipettes graduated in tenths of a c.c. are 
used to add fractions of the different dilutions to the requisite 
media. 

Dilution flasks or bottles containing 99 c.c. or 9 c.c. 
are often used, and are recommended by the American Com- 
mittee on Standard Methods of Bacterial Milk Analysis, 1 but 
the writer is of opinion that the addition of only 1 c.c. 
of milk for the primary dilutions is unreliable and leads to 
error. By adding as much as 10 c.c, errors of measurement 
are reduced to a minimum, while the use of glass-stoppered 
bottles enables the dilutions to be very thoroughly mixed. 

1 American Jour n. of Public Hygiene, 1910, xx. p. 315. 



CHAPTEE X 

BACTERIAL ESTIMATIONS TO DETERMINE THE GENERAL 
CONTAMINATION OF MILK 

IN this chapter certain bacterial estimations are considered 
which have for their object the measurement of the degree of 
bacterial contamination of milk, and more particularly that 
part of it which is manurial in origin. The significance of 
such determinations is more fully considered in Chapter XIV. 

I. ESTIMATION OF THE NUMBER OF BACTERIA 

The estimation of the total number of bacteria in milk is 
impossible with present-day methods, and it becomes necessary 
to select an arbitrary basis of enumeration. There are no- 
known nutrient media and no known conditions of growth 
which will allow all the bacteria in milk to develop. All 
that can be said is that some media and some conditions are 
more favourable to the growth of a larger number of the 
bacteria in milk than others, and by their employment a 
higher count is obtained than by the use of less favourable 
media and conditions. Since all bacterial enumerations are 
relative, and since not all bacteria in milk are of undesirable 
significance, there is no particular reason why a medium 
giving the highest counts should, of necessity, be preferred to 
one allowing fewer bacteria to develop. 

The bacteria which we need to estimate in milk are those 
whose addition is a measure of its undesirable pollution, and 
an enumeration of the total number of bacteria in milk (even if 
it were possible) is of itself a secondary matter. If this point 
of view is accepted, it is possible to obtain guiding principles 

177 N 



i 7 8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

as to the best estimation procedure to adopt. The tempera- 
ture of 37 C. is, in the writer's opinion, preferable to 20- 
22 C. for incubation of the milk -plates, since at the higher 
temperature the usually harmless lactic acid bacilli do not 
grow, or. at least not readily, and it is a disadvantage to 
enumerate these organisms. On the other hand the manurial 
bacteria, which serve as the measure of manurial pollution, 
grow best at 37 C. While, therefore, the count at the higher 
temperature will be lower, it will yet be more valuable. The 
higher temperature also enables results to be recorded earlier, 
thus saving time, and avoiding the locking up of a large 
number of plates. 

It should, however, be mentioned that a number of workers 
prefer the enumeration at the lower temperature. For ex- 
ample, Heinemann and Glenn l have recently compared the 
value of enumerations at 20 and 37 C. respectively. They 
found that using both glucose litmus agar and lactose litmus 
agar the number of colonies after 1 day is higher at 37 C., 
after 2 days is higher at 20 C., and after 3 days' incubation 
the number of colonies at 20 is about double that at 37 C. 
They found many more plates lost by the overgrowth of spread- 
ing colonies at 37 than at 20" C. They favoured the in- 
cubation at 20 C. for 3 days chiefly because, in their opinion, 
more groups of bacteria have a chance to develop than at 
37 C., and this gives a better insight into the production 
and handling of milk. 

For ordinary enumerations simple nutrient agar, of 
+ 1 reaction, may be used. This medium may be modified 
for special purposes. For example, lactose litmus agar and 
glucose litmus agar have been made use of instead of ordinary 
agar, since they allow the bacilli which ferment these sugars 
to be differentiated and roughly enumerated. Heinemann 
and Glenn, comparing these two media, found that there was 
in some samples a decided relative decrease of acid colonies 
after 2 and 3 days at both 20 and 37 C. in lactose agar. 
This phenomenon, they believe, is due to the fact that some 
milk bacilli of the B. aerogenes type form red colonies at first, 
and then later these colonies assume the blue colour again. This 
change was not observed in glucose agar, and in consequence 

1 The Journ. of Infectious Diseases, 1908. v. p. 412. 



CONTAMINATION OF MILK 179 

these investigators recommend glucose in preference to lactose 
agar. 

The committee of the American Public Health Association 
on standard milk methods adopted nutrient agar containing 
1 per cent agar, and of a reaction of + 1'5. They remark : 

Much work yet remains to be done on media ; the above is 
recommended as giving the highest and most uniform counts as far 
as our comparative work has extended, and, with but slight varia- 
tion, is the medium in most common use. 

The proper dilution of the sample has already been con- 
sidered, the other steps are briefly as follows : Tubes of 
nutrient agar medium are melted, and cooled to a temperature 
of about 42 C. The diluted milk fractions are then added 
by sterile pipette. The contents of the inoculated tubes are 
thoroughly mixed, poured, and solidified in the ordinary way. 
The plates are inverted and incubated at 37 C. The colonies 
should be counted after 40 to 48 hours' incubation. Many 
workers count after 24 hours' incubation, but usually the 
colony development is then very incomplete, and the number 
of colonies not easily counted. The counting should be done 
by the naked eye. 

Media, temperature of incubation, period of incubation, 
must all be accurately recorded, and it is absolutely im- 
perative for comparative work to enumerate under precisely 
similar conditions. 

At least three plates should be poured, and only those 
plates enumerated which do not contain an excessive number 
of bacteria. Convenient amounts of the milk to add to the 
agar tubes are, for fresh byre milk 0*01, 0'02, and 0'004 c.c,, 
and for ordinary vended milk 0'002, O'OOl, arid 0'0002 c.c. 
If, however, something is known about the milk, it will usually 
be possible to obtain a closer and more satisfactory range of 
dilutions. 

Several workers have attempted to estimate the number 
of bacteria from an examination of the stained centrifugal 
deposit of a fraction of milk. The estimate is a very rough 
one, and no numerical figure, with any pretence to accuracy, 
can be obtained, but it gives a useful idea of the number 
present. Dealing with samples of doubtful origin, it is a 
decided advantage to centrifugalise a small definite quantity 



180 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

and at once examine the deposit. This is a useful guide to 
the best dilutions to add for plating. 



II. ESTIMATION OF THE NUMBER OF B. COLI AND ALLIED 

ORGANISMS 

A great deal of very valuable work has been carried out 
upon B. coli and its allies. We now know that there are a 
large number of bacteria which can be differentiated from the 

<3 

original B. coli communis by cultural tests, but which are 
nevertheless closely allied and frequently seem to have a very 
similar origin and distribution in nature. The varieties which 
are of chief significance in relation to milk contamination all 
ferment lactose. These lactose fermenters of B. coli type are 
not present in milk as drawn from the teats, and when found 
in milk are nearly always derived from cow manure, possibly 
occasionally from human excreta. 

To isolate this group of organisms, several procedures may 
be used, but the following is recommended as, in the writer's 
experience, the most satisfactory. 

Lactose bile-salt broth (conveniently called L.B.B.) in double 
tubes, is used. To prepare : 

Five grammes each of sodium taurocholate and lactose, 20 
grammes of peptone, and 1 litre of water are heated together until 
the solids are dissolved. The mixture is filtered and sufficient 
strong neutral litmus solution is added to give a distinct colour. 
The medium is then distributed into fermentation tubes, and 
sterilised, by steaming for 20 minutes on three successive days. 

Definite fractions of the milk are added by pipette to these 
tubes. The amount to add will depend upon the suspected 
degree of pollution of the milk. A usual procedure is to add 
1-0, O'l, O'Ol c.c, if the sample is byre milk, and if it 
is ordinary vended milk to add in addition O'OOl, 0*0001, 
0-00001, 0-000001, and occasionally even 0-0000001 c.c. The 
dilutions are obtained in the ordinary way, as described in 
Chapter IX. 

These dilutions are widely spaced, and consequently the 
number of B. coli present can only be enumerated between 
rather wide limits. The liability to accidental differences 
from faulty or unequal dilution is not inconsiderable. The 



x CONTAMINATION OF MILK 181 

writer recommends the following dilutions and procedure for 
routine work. 

Byre milk Add 1 c.c. of the milk to each of five L.B.B. tubes, 
and O'l c.c. of the milk to each of two L.B.B. tubes. Incubate all 
seven tubes at 37 C. for two days, and record as positive all the 
tubes showing acid and gas. To isolate the lactose fermenting bacilli 
use one or more of the positive tubes containing the least amount 
of milk and plate as described below. 

Vended milk. Winter (October to April inclusive). Make a 
series of dilutions of the milk as described in Chapter IX. Inocu- 
late ten L.B.B. tubes, four being with O'OOOl c.c. each, four with 
O'OOl c.c. each, one with O'Ol c.c., and one with O'l c.c. Incubate 
all ten tubes at 37 for two days and record the positive results. 
Plate from one or more of the positive tubes containing the least 
amount of milk. 

Summer (May to September inclusive). Dilutions and procedure 
as for winter samples, but inoculate nine L.B.B. tubes adding the 
following quantities of milk 0*0001 c.c, to each of four tubes, O'OOl 
to each of four tubes, 0*01 to one tube. 

By this method of examination a much closer estimate 
of the number of B. coli can be obtained than by the ordinary 
methods and without more expenditure of time and material. 
The interpretation of the results is dealt with in Chapter XIV. 

To isolate these lactose fermenting bacilli solid media 
must be used, and there are a number of such media which 
give good results. The most useful of these are fuchsine-agar, 
nutrose-agar (Drigalski and Conradi's medium) and lactose 
bile -salt neutral red agar (conveniently called L.B.A). L.B.A. 
is, on the whole, both the most uniform and convenient to use, 
while it gives very reliable results. 

Preparation of L.B.A. Sodium taurocholate 5 grammes, Witte's 
peptone 20 grammes, and distilled water 1 litre, are boiled up 
together, 20 grammes of agar are added and dissolved in the solution 
in the autoclave in the ordinary way. The medium is cleared with 
white of egg and filtered. After filtration, 10 grammes of lactose 
and 5 c.c. of recently prepared 1 per cent neutral red solution is 
added. The medium is then tubed and sterilised for 15 minutes 
on three successive days. 

To isolate, add one loopful of the selected lactose bile- 
salt broth tube to a tube of sterile water. After mixing 
well, place two loopfuls of the latter upon the surface of the 



1 82 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

L.B.A. plate. Distribute with a sterile bent glass rod 
uniformly over the plate. The L.B.A. plate will be rather 
wet from condensed water on the surface. To dry, incubate 
it for li) to 2 hours uncovered in the 37 C. incubator.- 
Then cover and invert. Incubate for 24 hours at 3*7 C. 

B. coli and other lactose fermenters grow as red colonies, 
colour the surrounding medium red, and many of them pro- 
duce a haze round the colony. Several of the typical red 
colonies are picked off, subcultivated, and their characters 
determined as described below. 

Another procedure for the isolation of B. coli and its allies 
from milk samples is to directly plate the diluted milk on solid 
media. Lactose litmus agar, L.BA., and aesculin agar may be 
used for this purpose. Aesculin media were introduced by 
Harrison and Leek. 1 They prepared an aesculin broth and 
an aesculin agar. 

The aesculin agar is made as follows : 

Ten grammes Witte's peptone, 5 grammes sodium taurocholate 
(commercial), 1 gramme aesculin, 0'5 gramme ferric citrate, 15 
grammes agar, tap-water 1 litre. The agar and other ingredients 
are dissolved in the ordinary way, boiled, filtered, tubed, and 
sterilised. 

Colonies of B. coli in this medium are black with a black 
halo, and can be readily counted against a suitable back- 
ground. The aesculin (a glucoside) combines with the iron 
citrate and forms a dark-brown salt, the reaction only taking 
place iii sugar-free media. 

The colonies of some other organisms give the reac- 
tion, notably B. lactis aerogenes. Harrison and Leek say that 
with care the characters of the colonies of this organism 
can be distinguished from those of B. coli, being larger, 
moister, and more raised. These investigators recommend 
that the diluted milk (dilutions 1:100 and 1:500 being used), 
and the aesculin agar be mixed together in the Petri dish, 
allowed to set and incubated at 37 C. The plates are 
counted after 24 hours, using a white background. To 
accurately differentiate B. coli and B. aerogenes, they prefer to 
leave the plates longer in the incubator. By this method 

1 Cent-mill, f. Bald. Abt. II.. 1909, xxii. p. 55 ; and Arner. Jcmrn. of Public 
Hyylene, 1908, p. 431. 



CONTAMINATION OF MILK 183 

they believe that an accurate estimation of the number of B. 
coli and B. lactis aerogenes in milk can be obtained. 

The writer has carried out a large number of milk examina- 
tions to determine B. coli and allied forms, using at the same 
time the L.B.B. tubes method and direct plating on aesculin 
agar or L.B.A. He found the L.B.A. medium quite as useful 
as aesculin agar, but on the whole with both media, it was 
difficult to arrive at accurate estimations of the number of these 
organisms from direct plating on solid media, and this pro- 
cedure is far inferior to the use of L.B.B. tubes inoculated with 
definite fractions of the milk. 

Identification tests. The following tests should be carried 
out for -routine work : 

(a) Growth upon gelatine slope, for character of growth and 
(absence of liquefaction. 

(6) Growth in litmus milk at 37 C. for acid and clot. 

(c) Growth in lactose peptone litmus solution for lactose 
fermentation. 

(d) Growth in peptone water for indol production. 

(e) Growth in saccharose peptone litmus solution for fermenta- 
tion of saccharose. 

Of these, the saccharose fermentation test is omitted by 
some workers. The others are the minimum number of tests 
which should be employed. For research purposes, to accurately 
study the distribution of the organisms included in one group 
by the above tests, a greatly extended series of cultural tests 
will be necessary. 

MacConkey has advocated a different series of tests for 
members of the B. coli group. He at first suggested T the 
omission of the fermentation of glucose, growth in milk, 
character of the growth 011 gelatine, indol formation and 
action on neutral red, and the substitution for these tests of 
the following fermentation of dulcite, adonite, and inulin, 
and Voges and Proskauer's reaction. He retained the fer- 
mentation of saccharose. In his opinion, " by so doing we 
should gain a finer differentiation without increase of work, 
and we should not be classing as B. coli organisms which may 
have little in common with, and have a distribution entirely 
different from that of the B. coli communis." 

1 Journal of Hygiene, 1906, vi. p. 385. 



i8 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

In a later paper l further discussing these tests, MacConkey 
arrived at the opinion that (in view of the better tests for that 
substance now available) the indol test should be retained. 
He also modified his opinion as to the value of Voges and 
Proskauer's reaction. In addition, he introduced three further 
tests, i.e. the fermentation of inulin, inosit, and mannite. 
MacConkey states : 

The method of procedure suggested is that a sloped agar tube 
should be inoculated from a single colony on a plate, the growth 
being rubbed all over the surface of the medium and in the water 
of condensation. After 4 to 6 hours' growth at 37 C. a drop of 
the condensation water can be examined to ascertain the presence 
or absence of motility. After 24 hours' incubation at 37 C. a 
good loopful of the growth is put into tubes of gelatine, lactose, 
saccharose, dulcit, adonit, and inulin. The agar tube is returned to 
the incubator, together with the rest of the tubes, and is used later 
for the indol test. An inosit tube and a glucose tube (for Yoges 
and Proskauer's reaction) may be inoculated at the same time as 
the others, or these two may be used as confirmatory tests. Voges 
and Proskauer's reaction may be tested for at the end of 4 days. 
The other tubes should be kept under observation as long as there 
is no change in the reaction of the medium. 

As regards the value of these additional fermentation 
tests, it may be said at once that for research purposes the 
greater the number of cultural differentiation tests used the 
more valuable the information obtained in regard to the dis- 
tribution of certain strains and their ultimate significance. 
For routine work the increased labour necessitated by the use 
of a large series of differentiating tests is so considerable that 
the number of such tests has to be restricted, and only those 
of proved utility, from the immediate practical point of view, 
can be adopted. 

The practical value of these additional tests turns upon 
the light they shed as to the origin of the organisms to 
which they are applied. For example, the dulcite test is fully 
justified if it can be shown that a dulcite fermenting organism 
is of greater or lesser significance, and indicates a different 
distribution than an identical organism which does not ferment 
that alcohol. Have the workers who advocate the use of 
these extra tests been able to demonstrate such a proposition ? 

1 Journal of Hygiene, 1909, ix. p. 86. 



CONTAMINATION OF MILK 



185 



It is simple enough to give such organisms different names, 
and to say one is B. coli communis, another B. coscoroba, 
another B. neapolitanus, etc., but unless we are able to demon- 
strate a different distribution and a different significance for 
such organisms, their use in the practical and routine examina- 
tion of milk adds nothing of value for administrative purposes, 
and the use of these names is of doubtful service. 

Both MacConkey and Orr have published the results of 
examinations based upon the use of some or most of these tests. 

MacConkey 1 records the examination of 1 7 8 samples of 
human faeces and 131 samples of horse, calf, goat, and pig 
faeces. He differentiated his isolated organisms by fermen- 
tation and other tests into numerous groups. Taking his 
results, and neglecting the presence or absence of motility 
as a differentiating test, and grouping together some of the 
varieties only represented by a very few strains, we obtain 
the following percentage results : 



Strain.* 


Origin (percentage). 




Human Faeces. 


Animal Faeces. 


A 


5-0 


5-3 


B 


23-0 


3-1 


C 


27-0 


27-4 


D 





6-9 


E 


32-2 


48-1 


F 


4-5 





G 






H 






J 


... 




Strains other than 






the above . 


8-3 


9-2 



* For characters of these strains, see table below. 

Orr 2 isolated 850 glucose fermenting organisms from milk. 
He classified them in a very similar manner to MacConkey. 
Some of them failed to ferment lactose. Excluding these, and 
dealing only with the bacilli isolated from cowshed, retailer, 
and consumer milk samples and those obtained from manure, 
the results in the following table are obtained : 



1 Journal of Hygiene, 1909, ix. p. 86. 
2 Report on an Investigation as to the Contamination of Milk, 1908. 



1 86 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



CHAP. 



Strain. 


Organisms isolated. 


Percentages. 


1 

8 


& 

1 


Consumer. 


Manure 


CoAA'shed. 


0> 

1 


Consumer. 


Manure. 


A 























o 


B 


30 


57 


30 


4 


12-1 


20-4 


16-6 


8-3 


c 


33 


29 


23 


17 


13-8 


10-4 


12-8 


34-6 


D 


























E 


45 


50 


31 


9 


18-8 


17-9 


17-2 


18-7 


F 


62 


59 


48 


3 


25-9 


21-1 


26-6 


6-2 


G 


31 


27 


19 


12 


12-9 


9-6 


10-6 


27-1 


H 


12 


23 


i 


1 


5-0 


8-2 


3-9 


2-1 


J 


23 


24 


16 





9-6 


8-6 


8-9 


o-o 


All others 


3 


10 


6 


2 


1-2 


3-6 


3-3 


4-0 


239 


279 


180 


48 











The strains A to .1 are essentially differentiated by their 
fermentation characters. They all ferment glucose and lactose, 
and as regards the others their characters are as follows : 





| 


oi 









Strain. 


1 


o 


c 


"c J 






g 


- 


< 


fi 




A 


_ 


_ 


+ 


_ 




B 


- 


- 


- 


- 


B. Griinthcd, B. vesiculosus, etc. 


C 


- 


+ 


- 


- 


B. coli communis, etc. 


D 


- 


+ 


+ 


- 




E 


+ 


+ 


- 


- 


B. neapolitanus. 


F 


+ 


- 


+ 


+ 


7?. ladis aerogenes. 


G 


+ 


- 


- 


- 


B. coscoroha. 


H 


+ 


- 


- 


+ 


B. cloacae (liquefies gelatine). 


J 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


B. oxytocus perniciosus. 



When the results are worked out in percentages, as shown 
in the above tables, it is possible to compare results. 

The essential differences between MacConkey's human and 
animal excreta figures are the much greater prevalence of 
strain B in human excreta, and the much more numerous 
strain E in the animal excreta. Orr's results show the much 
greater prevalence of B. lactis aerogenes in milk as compared 



CONTAMINATION OF MILK 187 

with excreta. This is no doubt explained by the fact that 
B. lactis aerogenes often multiplies more rapidly in milk than 
the other coli group organisms. The writer has found this to 
be the case in his work. Orr, however, did not find, as might 
have been anticipated, this strain more numerous in the retailer 
and consumer samples compared with the cowshed samples. 
Orr's cowshed, retailer, and consumer results are strikingly alike. 

These findings, interesting as they are, fail to demon- 
strate the value of these additional fermentation tests for 
routine work. To take but one example, they do not show 
that the B. coli communis type (strain C), which does not 
ferment saccharose, is of any different significance from the 
B. neapolitanus type (strain E), which does ferment saccharose. 
From these results it is not possible to attach any additional 
significance to the presence or absence of saccharose fermenta- 
tion, and the same applies to most of the other sugar-alcohols 
employed. 

The writer has carefully studied the investigations both of 
MacConkey and Orr, and while their work is of the highest 
value for scientific purposes, and a basis for future practical 
work, in his opinion it cannot be said that they have estab- 
lished that any particular variants are of greater significance as 
an index of excreted pollution than other types. In other words, 
the practical value of these tests has yet to be demonstrated. 

Bergey and Deehan l have also studied what they call the 
colon-aerogenes group of bacteria, using the same differentiat- 
ing tests us those employed by MacConkey. They isolated 
and studied bacteria from 50 samples of milk and 8 samples 
of sewage. As they point out, the 8 differentiating tests 
employed (fermentation of saccharose, dulcite, adonite, iiiulin, 
motility, indol production, Voges and Proskauer's reaction, 
gelatine liquefaction) represent 256 possible combinations. 
Of these they found organisms representing only 43 varieties, 
while those from the milk samples represented only 27 
different species, less than half of which had been found by 
MacConkey. Their results also fail to show any special utility 
to be obtained from the use of these tests. 

In the same way the relative significance of the strains 
which produce indol, and those which do not, has yet to be 
1 Journ. of Medical Research, 1908, xix. p. 175. 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



CHAP. 



accurately determined. The problem is, however, neither 
so difficult nor so important as the same question applied to 
water supplies. Lactose fermenters of coli type are absent 
from pure milk drawn without contamination, and as far as is 
at present known all such organisms indicate outside pollution 
of the milk, and in general (directly or indirectly) manurial 
pollution. 

III. DETEKMINATION OF THE NUMBER OF STREPTOCOCCI 

To estimate the number of streptococci in milk the 
method recommended as the simplest and most reliable is to 
add diluted fractions of the milk, 1/0, O'l, O'Ol, O'OOl c.c. etc., 
to tubes of glucose neutral red broth. Ordinary broth will do, 
but the neutral red broth is preferable and gives better results. 
The tubes are incubated for two days at 37 C. and then 
examined, in hanging - drop preparation, for streptococcus 
chains. The deposit should be selected for examination, and 
several hanging-drop preparations made. A positive result 
should be recorded only when quite definite chains of cocci 
are detected, or, in doubtful cases, when stained preparations 
show such definite chains. 

To isolate the streptococci, brush diluted loopfuls of the 
positive tubes over plates containing nutrient agar. Incubate 
for 24 hours, and if necessary for 2 days, at 37 C. Sub- 
cultivate the colonies having the characters of streptococcus 
colonies into broth or upon sloped agar in tubes containing 
condensation water. In cases in which streptococci are likely 
to be scanty, part of the centrifugalised deposit may be used 
to inoculate the agar plates. 

The tests recommended to differentiate the streptococcus 
strains isolated are the following : morphology, growth upon 
sloped nutrient agar, growth in nutrient broth, growth upon 
gelatine slope, action upon litmus milk, the production of acid 
in lactose, saccharose, salicin, maimite, ramiiose, and inulin. 

These sugar - alcohol media for the differentiation of 
streptococci were introduced by Gordon, and may conveniently 
be prepared as follows : 

A stock solution is made up containing lemco 10 grammes, 
peptone 10 grammes, sodium bicarbonate 1 gramme, 10 per cent 
aqueous litmus- solution 100 c.c., distilled water to 1 litre. This 



CONTAMINATION OF MILK 189 

is boiled and filtered in the ordinary way ; 1 per cent of the sugar, 
alcohol, or glucoside is added to portions of this stock solution to 
make the different media. The tubes are sterilised in current 
steam for three successive days. 

For some purposes it is of great value to ascertain the 
pathogenicity of isolated strains of streptococci. This is con- 
veniently done by injecting mice subcutaneously or intra- 
peritoneally. 

The presence or absence of streptococci in milk may 
also be studied by a careful examination of the centri- 
fugalised deposit stained by methylene blue. Failure to find 
streptococcus chains does not mean they are absent, but only 
suggests they are not present in considerable numbers. The 
stained deposits from samples of vended milk usually show 
numerous streptococci, but in those made from fresh byre 
milk samples they are, as a rule, not to be demonstrated. 

IV. ESTIMATION OF THE NUMBER OF B. ENTERITIDIS 
SPOROGENES SPORES 

The milk itself is directly incubated. The usual quantities 
of milk to examine are 1, 10, and 20 c.c., the smallest amount 
being added to a tube of freshly sterilised whole milk, while 
the other quantities are placed in empty sterile test tubes. 
The milk tubes are heated in a water-bath to 80 C., and kept 
at that temperature for ten minutes, then cooled and incubated 
anaerobically at 37 C. The anaerobic cultivation is most 
conveniently done by absorbing the oxygen with pyrogallic 
acid and potash contained in a wide-mouthed bottle in which 
the tubes are placed. 

The amounts given above are too wide apart to yield a 
satisfactory estimation, and the following method is advocated 
by the writer : l Quite small, narrow (4 by ^ inch), sterile 
empty test tubes are used in batches of ten for each estimation. 
20 c.c. of milk is employed for each test, 2 c.c. being added 
by sterile pipette to each tube. The ten tubes are heated for 
10 minutes at 80 C., rapidly cooled and incubated anaerobically 
in specimen jars with ground-glass stoppers, just large enough 
to take the ten tubes, the oxygen being absorbed by the usual 
potash and pyrogallic acid mixture. The tubes are examined 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1909-10, p. 477. 



1 90 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

after 2 days' incubation at 37 C. for the characteristic changes 
described on page 42. In the slender test tubes advocated 

the 2 c.c. of milk rather more 
than half fills the tube, and the 
condition of the milk can readily 
be observed. The tubes beiiii* 

O 

small readily go into a small 
specimen jar which consequently 
requires less chemicals to ab- 
sorb all the oxygen, while space 
in the incubator is economised. 
The essential value of the modi- 
fication is that the test is made 
much more delicate without ad- 
ditional work. 

Some arbitrary standard is 
convenient for recording. Each 
positive result in a tube is 
counted as 1 B. enteritidis sporo- 
f/cncs spore, an assumption which 
is probably, but certainly not 
always, true. Thus, if all the 

ten tubes show a positive " enteritidis change," the result is 
recorded as 10. All gradations between and 10 maybe met 
with, and a comparative sensitive test is in this way available. 
It is not usual to confirm the diagnosis by an animal 
inoculation test, reliance being placed upon the naked- eye 
changes in the test tube, the so-called " enteritidis change." 
From the facts given in Chapter IV. it is evident that other 
organisms, such as B. butyricus, give this appearance in milk. 
Since, however, these other organisms have, as far as is known, 
a very similar distribution in nature this fact does not in- 
validate to any serious extent the value of the test. If 
pathogenicity is to be tested 1 c.c. of the whey is injected 
subcutaneously into a guinea-pig. 

One great value of this test is that it is a non-multiplying 
one, so that it is especially useful for vended milk. A 
drawback to its utility is the fact that the spores are not 
always uniformly distributed in the milk. 




CHAPTEK XI 

THE CELLULAR AND SEDIMENT EXAMINATION OF MILK 

THE varieties of cellular elements in milk and the chief factors 
influencing the numbers present have been considered in 
Chapter I. The nature and volume of solid deposit obtained by 
centrifugalisation or sedimentation of milk samples was also 
described. The present chapter is concerned with three esti- 
mations and their utility in practical milk examination. 
They are the following : 

A. The numerical estimation of the cellular content. 

B. The examination of the stained centrifugalised deposit. 

C. The estimation of the volume or weight of sediment 
obtained from milk. 

A. ESTIMATION OF THE CELLULAR CONTENT 

Stokes and Wegefarth in 1897 first devised a method for 
the enumeration of the cells, or, as they are usually called, 
leucocytes in milk. Their method was based upon the number 
of leucocytes per microscopic field of a preparation made by 
centrifugalising 10 c.c. of milk, spreading the sediment on a 
slide, and staining with methylene blue. Bergey, Stewart, 
and Slack all used a very similar procedure. This method and 
modifications of it are extremely inaccurate. Eussell and 
Hoffmann found variations of 112 per cent as compared with 
6 per cent using the Doane-Buckley procedure. 

Prescott and Breed l have recently modified the direct 
counting procedure as follows. The sample is well shaken to 
distribute the cream equally through the milk. A measured 
drop (O'Ol c.c.) is then withdrawn by means of a specially 

1 Journ. of Inf. Diseases, 1910, vii. p. 632. 
191 



1 92 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

constructed capillary pipette with a rubber bulb. The drop is 
spread evenly over an area of 1 sq. c.m. on an ordinary 
glass slide. The milk is then dried with gentle heat, the fat 
dissolved out with xylol or other fat solvent, the smear fixed 
to the slide by immersion in alcohol for a few minutes, dried, 
overstained with methylene blue, and decolorized with 
alcohol. The slide is then ready for examination. Eapid 
drying is necessary to prevent the segregation of the fat drops 
which makes the distribution of the cells uneven. 

The counting is done with an oil immersion lens. If the 
diameter of the field is so arranged that it equals 0'16 m.m., 
then each field covers approximately 0*005 of a sq. c.m. On 
this basis each cell seen in a field taken at random represents 
500,000 cells per c.c. The authors record that the cells are 
evenly distributed. While an improvement on the original 
smear method, many errors are obviously possible. 

To reliably estimate the cellular content of milk there are 
only two methods (including later modifications of these 
methods) with any pretensions to accuracy : the Doane-Buckley 
method published in 1905, and the method of the writer, which 
was independently worked out about the same time, but not 
published until the following year. Both are based upon the 
same principle, but show essential differences in technique. 
By using as much as 10 c.c. of milk, the Doane-Buckley 
counts are in the writer's opinion liable to be much too low. 

The German method of Trommsdorf consists in reading off 

o 

the volume of centrifugalised deposit in a drawn-out graduated 
tube. The deposit consists of other matters besides leucocytes, 
and cannot be taken as an estimation of their number. The 
volume of total deposit does not bear any direct or constant 
relationship to the leucocyte count. 

Savage s Method. The ordinary Thoma-Zeiss blood- 
counting chamber is employed. Direct counting of the cells 
is impossible owing to the opacity caused by the large amount 
of fat. One c.c. of the milk is accurately transferred to a cen- 
trifugal tube (about 15 c.c. capacity) of the pattern shown in 
Fig. 9, and freshly filtered Toisson's solution 1 is poured in to 

1 This is the well-known indifferent solution used in blood enumerations. 
It does not injure the cells, but stains them sufficiently to render them clearly 
visible. Its composition is methyl violet 0'025 grm., sodium chloride 1 grm., 
sodium sulphate 8 grms., glycerine 30 c.c., distilled water 160 c.c. 



EXAMINATION OF MILK 



193 



almost fill the tube. The two fluids are well mixed and 

centrifugalised for 10 minutes. The cream is then well 

broken up by a clean glass rod, to disentangle 

leucocytes carried to the surface, and the mixture 

centrifugalised for an additional 5 minutes. All 

the fluid is then removed down to the 1 c.c. mark, 

great care being taken not to disturb the deposit. 

This can be conveniently and readily done by means 

of a fine glass tube connected to an exhaust pump. 

Theoretically, all the leucocytes present in the 

original 1 c.c. of milk are now present in the 1 c.c. 

of fluid. The leucocytes are thoroughly well mixed 

(with a wire), and distributed through the 1 c.c. 

A sufficient quantity is placed on the ruled 

squares of the Thorna-Zeiss apparatus, and the 

cover-glass put on. The number of leucocytes is 

counted in a number of different fields of vision, 

moving regularly from one field of vision to another. 

The diameter of the field of vision is ascertained 

before counting by drawing out the microscope 

tube until an exact number of sides of the squares 

spans a diameter of the field of vision. 

The number of leucocytes per cubic m.m. of milk = 



7. c.c. 



56,000 y 



lid- 



-, where y = the average number of leucocytes per 



field of vision, d = the number of squares which just spans the 
diameter, d is determined once for all by marking the micro- 
scope draw tube so that only 20 fields have to be counted, 
and the figures substituted in the formula. 1 

Doane- Buckley Method. 10 c.c. of milk are centrifugalised 
for 4 minutes in a graduated centrifuge tube running at about 
2000 revolutions per minute. The cream is removed with a 

1 It has been urged as a criticism that this counting procedure makes the 
method unuecessar ly difficult. The counting by field of vision is vastly more 
accurate than by squares. If the former is done some formula is necessary, but 
if d is once determined and a line scratched on the microscope tube, the mathe- 
matical iabour is trivial. In the microscope chiefly used by the writer, d was 

56, 000 11 14,000 
always 6, and the formula became ~ ~- 99~ y ' ordinary routine 

wor k number = 140?/ was then sufficiently accurate, or even more simply, just 
7 times the number of leucocytes in the total 20 fields counted. 





1 94 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

cotton swab as far as possible. The tube is centrifuged for one 
minute more and the cream again removed. Without disturb- 
ing the sediment, the overlying milk is syphoned off, leaving 
fluid to the depth of ^ inch above the sediment. Two drops 
of a saturated alcoholic solution of methylene blue are 
added, thoroughly mixed with the sediment by shaking, and 
set aside in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes to allow the 
leucocytes to take up the stain. The tube is then filled up to 
1 c.c. with water, the contents shaken thoroughly, and a little 
transferred to a blood -counting chamber. The number of 
leucocytes in all, or a definite number of the squares, is 
ascertained, and the number per c.c. of milk deduced. 

Modifications of these methods have been introduced^ 
Eussell and Hoffmann, using the Doane-Buckley method, found 
that by heating the milk to 60 70 C. before centrifugalisa- 
tion, a very great increase almost always results in the 
number of cells. They ascribe this to the entangling effect of 
the fat, an effect which is broken down by heating. They 
suggest that the milk should be subjected to a preliminary 
heating. "A momentary exposure at 70 C. or above, or a 
more prolonged heating for a few minutes at 60 C., will so 
alter the physical arrangement of the fat globules in milk, 
that practically all the cellular elements may be recovered." 

Hewlett, Villar, and E,evis find that the addition of form- 
aldehyde (6 drops of formalin to 6070 c.c. of milk) has a 
similar effect. They ascribe this increase to the formalin 
breaking down aggregations of cells, and causing them to be 
more evenly distributed. 

B. THE EXAMINATION OF THE STAINED CENTKIFUCALISED 

DEPOSIT 

To obtain comparable results the sediment from a definite 
amount of milk should be examined after centrifugalisation 
for a definite period. Ten c.c. of milk centrifugalised for 10 
minutes is convenient. Part of the deposit is spread thinly 
but uniformly over a cover-slip, dried in air, fixed in the 
flame, or preferably by soaking in a mixture of equal parts 
alcohol and ether for one minute, stained by methylene blue 
and mounted in balsam. 



EXAMINATION OF MILK 195 

The preparation may be utilised to gain an idea of the 
general bacterial content, if streptococci are present, and if so 
in what numbers and whether intracellular, while, if con- 
sidered necessary, a differential count may be made of the 
cellular elements present. 

With care a rough but valuable estimate can be obtained 
from this examination as to the probable number of bacteria 
in the sample. In Chapter I. a description is given of the 
different cells found in milk deposits. At least 200 leucocytes 
should be enumerated. 

C. THE ESTIMATION OF THE VOLUME OR WEIGHT OF 
SEDIMENT OBTAINABLE FROM MILK 

The amount of sediment in milk has been measured and 
estimated by a number of observers, each worker using as a 
rule his own method which, while giving comparable results 
for his own work, renders comparison with the results of other 
investigators useless. It may be said that there is no one 
method which is generally accepted. The following are some 
of the more important procedures which have been used in 
this country : 

1. DeUpine's Method. 1 Delepine estimates the sediment 
from milk by measuring the diameter of the sediment deposited 
in tubes of uniform diameter, each containing 40 c.c. of milk, 
and left for a quarter of an hour in a centrifugal machine 
running at the rate of about 2500 revolutions per minute. 
The absolute amount of sediment is not indicated by these 
measurements, but Delepine estimated the relationship between 
the diameter and the weight of these sediments. In this 
way he constructed an approximately reliable scale. 

2. Houston's Method. 2 A litre of milk is allowed to stand 
(with 1 c.c. of formalin added to inhibit bacteria) in a long 
tube with a narrowed, graduated lower portion provided with a 
glass tap. The solid matters sink, and after 24 hours the 
volume of sediment is read off on the scale. This Houston 
calls the " primary reading." A centrifugal tube with the 
lower part graduated and of narrow bore is then held under 

1 Medical Chronicle, March 1908. 
2 Report to the London County Council (No. 933), 1905. 



196 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

the outlet of the cylindrical sedimentation apparatus, and the 
stopcock of the latter turned sharply on and off several times 
until all the deposit has been swept into the centrifugal tube. 
Distilled water ( + 0'1 per cent No.,C0 3 ) is added to the 
centrifugal tube up to the 10 c.c. mark. After centrifugalisa- 





CCM 




/8 Natural Size 



Natural Size 



FK;. IU. -A, Glass tube holding a litre of milk ; C, Tube for measuring sediment ; B, Rubber 
tubing connecting A and C. At the side is represented a brass rod, with rubber stopper 
attached, for plugging the lower end of tube A, when C is taken oft'. Tube C is shown by 
the side - natural sixe. It is graduated in T ',,ths and T ,', n ths of a c.c. 

tion for 2 minutes the volume of sediment is read off 011 the 
scale. This Houston calls the " secondary reading." 

3. Orr's Method} This method is a modification of that 
used by Houston. The apparatus used is shown in Fig. 10. 
The top of the centrifugal tube fits outside the lower part of 
the large glass cylinder, the two being connected by rubber 

1 Report on an Investigation as to the Contamination of Milk, 1908. 



EXAMINATION OF MILK 197 



tubing. The centrifuge tube is graduated in YQ-ths and T ^ ths 
of a c.c. A litre of milk (after addition of 1 c.c. formalin) is 
allowed to stand for 12 hours. At the end of that time, 
a brass rod fitted with a rubber stopper at the lower end is 
passed through the milk, and fitting into the outlet of the 
cylinder prevents escape of the fluid when the centrifuge tube 
is detached. The tube is centrifugalised (1500 to 2000 
revolutions per minute) for 3 to 5 minutes, and the milk 
poured off. Sodium carbonate solution (1 per cent) is then 
added up to the 10 c.c. mark and the centrifugalising repeated. 
The deposit is then read off. The primary reading of Houston 
is omitted. 

4. Revis's Method. 1 A tube holding about 70 c.c. is used, 
This is made of stout glass drawn out at one end and with 
a small glass cap well ground on. Inside the neck of the 
tube upon which the cap fits, a glass rod is well ground in, of 
sufficient length to project beyond the mouth of the tube. 
The end of the rod is ground Hush with the neck, and the cap 
has such a capacity that when in place -J- inch in depth is left 
beyond the end of the tube. It is used as follows : 5 c.c. 
of milk are placed in the tube, the cap being in place and the 
rod withdrawn. A rubber stopper is put in, and the tube 
rotated at about 2000 revolutions per minute for 5 minutes. 
(The cap should be well backed up with a pad of cotton-wool 
to prevent breakage.) The rod is then carefully inserted in 
the tube, the cap gently removed with a screwing motion. If 
stuck, it may be tapped off with a piece of wood and the tube 
thoroughly washed out. The cap is replaced, and 50 c.c. of 
distilled water run in, the sediment stirred up with a platinum 
needle, and the tube, after well shaking, again rotated for 5 
minutes. The cap and contents are again removed as before, 
the tube emptied, the cap replaced, and 1 c.c. of Eau de Javelle 
run in on to the sediment. This is mixed up with a platinum 
needle, and the tube again filled up with 5 c.c. distilled water, 
shaken, and again rotated. The cap is finally removed, dried 
in the water-oven, and weighed. The cap is then cleaned out, 
dried, and weighed also. The difference equals the amount of 
dirt by weight in 50 c.c. of milk after subtracting the weight 
of a blank Eau de Javelle experiment with distilled water. 

1 Journ. Royal Institute of Public Health, 1908, vol. Ivi. p. 734. 



198 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

According to Revis, " this treatment with Eau de Javelle 
completely dissolves leucocytes, etc., mixed with the dirt, while 
without any action on the dirt constituents. We therefore 
get a true estimation of the dirt, and the procedure quite 
excludes any loss during manipulation. The dirt, after this 
treatment, may be used for microscopical examination." 

5. Direct Volumetric Measurement of the Centrifugalised 
Sediment. The method of Kevis, while accurate, is complicated 
and tedious, and the results obtained are not worth the trouble 
involved. Houston's method and Orr's modification both require 
a litre of milk, an amount not conveniently available for ordinary 
control routine work. For scientific investigation Orr's pro- 
cedure is to be recommended. For routine work a rough but 
sufficiently reliable estimation of the volume of the sediment 
may be obtained by direct centrifugalisation. Tubes which 
are of narrow calibre at the lower closed ends (similar to those 
used by Orr, Fig. 10) are used, preferably with a capacity 
of 50 c.c. The milk is filled in to a definite volume (50 c.c.), 
centrifugalised for a definite period at a known rate, and the 
volume of sediment directly read off in the graduated narrow 
end. The results are doubled and returned as volume of sedi- 
ment per 100 c.c. of milk. 

It will be convenient to consider in this chapter the value 
of the cytological and sediment estimations. 

Value of the Cytological Estimation. In Chapter I. the 
factors which determine and influence the cellular content of 
the milk of individual cows are considered in some detail. It 
was there shown that while variations may be met with under 
different natural conditions, evidence of considerable value is 
obtainable from this estimation and from a determination of 
the different kinds of cellular elements present. 

The opinion of the writer, 1 expressed in 1910 as a result 
of his personal experience, is that 

. . . leucocyte enumerations, as far as individual cows are con- 
cerned, are of great value. Rigid standards as to the number of 
leucocytes to allow in milk cannot be set up, but the count indicates 
the need for local investigation. With extended experience it may 
do much more than this. It gives definite information which 

1 Savage, Journ. Royal Instit. of Public, Health, 1910, xviii. p. 65. 



xr EXAMINATION OF MILK 199 

inspection frequently cannot furnish, and the procedure reaches its 
highest utility when combined with a bacteriological examination of 
the milk. 

It is certainly unjustifiable to lay down rigid standards of 
the number of leucocytes to permit in milk, as has been done 
by some American bacteriologists. When present in numbers 
more than 800 to 1000 per cubic ni.m. they indicate the need 
for careful enquiry as to the local condition of the cow's udder 
or teats. 

Dealing with this estimation in mixed milk samples, it is 
obvious that it can in no way assist in the determination of 
the bacterial pollution of milk, but it might be considered 
that the cellular count is of value as a means of detecting the 
presence of purulent inflammation of the udder of one or more 
of the cows composing the herd yielding the mixed milk. 
The writer has never 'held this view, since on purely mathe- 
matical grounds it seems unlikely that leucocyte enumerations 
of mixed milk samples would be of use to detect purulent 
inflammation in one or more of the cows. This may be shown 
most clearly by a concrete instance. 

In a herd of 20 cows it is assumed that one animal is aifected 
with mastitis in two quarters, and that the secretion from these 
quarters is added to the milk with the rest. A reasonable sup- 
position is that as many as 100,000 leucocytes per cubic m.m. are 
obtained from each affected quarter, and that the yield from each 
of these quarters is as much as T ^ of the normal amount yielded 
per quarter. It is hardly likely to be more than this, and if more 
were obtained it would certainly contain less than 100,000 leucocytes 
per cubic m.m., so that the total number of cellular elements added 
would be but little altered. The average number of leucocytes per 
cow may be taken as about 680 (average of a large number of 
examinations by the writer). The increased number of leucocytes 
in the added milk due to the addition of the fluid from the diseased 
quarters can now be readily calculated. 

Let x = the average amount of milk yielded per quarter. Then 
the total number of leucocytes from the 19 cows with healthy 
quarters = (19 x 4=)x x 680 = 51,680a:. 

The total number of leucocytes from the cow with two diseased 

quarters - (2 x x x 680) + (?- -\ = 21,360s ; .-. the total 

number of leucocytes in the whole of the mixed milk = 51,68'Oa; 
+ 21,360a;= 73,040s. 



200 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The total amount of milk yielded by all 20 cows = (19 x )x 

2x 

+ 2x + ~ = 78 '2$, or roughly 78#; .\ the number of leucocytes 

73,040^ 
per cubic m.m. m the mixed milk = ~ =936. 

IOX 

If the secretion of the diseased cow had been excluded the 
number of leucocytes would have been 680, so that the inclusion of 
the purulent secretion from this animal had only raised the leuco- 
cyte count to 936. Such an increase is within the variations met 
with amongst different mixed milk samples from healthy cows. 
In other words, the addition of the fluid from these two affected 
quarters might easily fail to be detected by the leucocyte count. 

In only quite small herds is the estimation of the cellular 
content of the mixed milk likely to give clear evidence of the 
existence of mastitis in one of the cows yielding the milk. 

Value of the Estimation of the Sediment. Numerous 
investigators have attempted to judge the cleanliness of milk 
samples from a determination of the amount of dirt or sediment 
obtainable from them. The bacteria which gain access to 
milk are contained in particulate matter, generally in manure, 
so that there is some justification for estimating the deposit 
in milk, and taking it as an index of the amount of undesirable 
bacteria which had gained access to it. The test is also a non- 
multiplying one, so is as valuable for vended milk as for byre 
samples. The amount of sediment can also be fairly easily 
and quickly estimated. ^ 

On the other hand, against the use of this test as a measure 
of the bacterial contamination of milk some weighty objections 
can be adduced. In the first place, it is well known that only 
a fractional part of the manurial matter added to milk is 
recoverable after sedimentation. For example, Thomas 1 states 
that the Chester city analyst, as the result of many control 
experiments, in which a known weight of fresh cow dung was 
added to a known volume of clean new milk, found that only 
one-eighth part by weight of the cow dung originally present 
was recoverable in the final results, the rest being represented 
by water, extractives, and soluble salts wbich had become 
incorporated with the liquid part of the milk. The fractional 
part which can be recovered is a variable and not a definite 
fraction of the whole. 

1 The Councils Journal, June 1908. 



EXAMINATION OF MILK 201 

A second objection is that the sediment is not all manurial 
matters, but a considerable part is composed of substances 
natural to milk, such as cellular elements, and also harmless 
inorganic bodies like sand, and these are a variable part of 
the whole. 

A further objection is that the amount is directly pro- 
portional to the efficiency of straining rather than to the 
cleanliness precautions adopted. This is the most important 
of the objections to this estimation, since straining, while it 
removes the larger dung particles, does not remove the bacteria. 
This being the case, a milk collected under extremely unsatis- 
factory conditions as regards cleanliness of sheds, cows, milkers, 
and milk vessels, but very carefully strained, might show con- 
siderably less sediment than a sample of milk collected under 
far superior conditions as regards general cleanliness but only 
rapidly strained through coarse muslin. 

Straining as a purification process is most irrational. 
The dung gives up a large part of its bacterial content to the 
milk, the only part of it which is prejudicial, and the residue 
is then strained off. Orr 1 made numerous estimations of the 
amount of sediment, and concluded that " there is no relation- 
ship between the amount of sediment and the number of 
bacteria present." This is what might be anticipated. 

There is a further objection to the use of a standard based 
upon the amount of dirt in milk. If one is set up it is 
inevitable that the farmer and the milk purveyor will imagine 
that the dirt itself is at fault and the thing to avoid, and 
therefore all that is required is to filter off the dirt and deposit 
by improved filtration processes. Cleanliness will be neglected 
on the supposition that purification by filtration can come 
afterwards. 

The writer is of opinion that the measurement of the 
sediment or dirt (as it is often called) in milk is an estima- 
tion which it is of no material value to retain. It gives no 
information which cannot be obtained much better in other 
ways, while it is open to many and serious sources of error. 
Take care of the bacteria and the sediment can take care of 
itself. 

1 Report on Milk Contamination, 1908. 



CHAPTEE XII 

CHEMICAL TESTS TO ESTIMATE THE PURITY AND FRESHNESS 

OF MILK 

ACIDITY ESTIMATIONS 

STATEMENTS are conflicting as to the reaction of quite fresh 
cows' milk. This is partly to be explained by the fact that 
the reaction largely depends upon phosphates, and these vary 
in their reaction towards different indicators. Using phenol- 
phthaleiii as the indicator, the writer has examined the 
acidity of a large number of fresh milk samples, both of mixed 
milk and milk directly obtained from individual cows. In 
every instance with this indicator the reaction has been acid, 
Swithenbank and Newman 1 record that 92*3 per cent of a 
herd of 2 6 healthy cows gave acid milk, using litmus paper as 
the indicator. Courant found that fresh milk reacted alkaline 
to lacmoid and acid to phenol-phthalein. 

It may be accepted that fresh cows' milk is, in general, 
acid to phenol-phthalein and litmus. The acidity is due in 
small part to carbonic acid, but mainly to mono- and di-basic 
phosphates. According to Courant, it is in part also due to 
dicalcium caseinogenate. 

Milk when kept becomes more acid, due to the production 
of lactic acid from the lactose of the milk by the action of 
bacteria. The lactose is not directly fermented, but has to be 
first converted into glucose and galactose. In the souring of 
milk as it takes place under ordinary conditions, the acidity is 
not entirely due to lactic acid ; small quantities of acetic, 
butyric, and succinic acids are produced. Only when a pure 

1 Text-book, 1903, p. 154. 
202 



CHAP, xii CHEMICAL TESTS OF MILK 203 

culture of lactic acid bacilli is used in a sterilised milk is lactic 
acid the only acid produced. 

The acidity of milk is generally recorded as so many 
degrees of acidity. The degree of acidity of a milk sample is the 

N 
number of c.c. of -^ alkali required to render 100 c.c. of 

milk neutral to phenol -phthalein. The acidity of fresh milk 
varies considerably. With over 50 samples of quite fresh 
milk collected at the byre, the writer found the acidity to 
vary between 11 and 23*5 degrees of acidity. 

Since lactic acid is produced by bacteria, and old stale 
rnilk has often a higher acidity than fresh byre milk, the 
determination of the acidity has been suggested as a quick and 
easy test by which to judge if milk samples contain an exces- 
sive number of bacteria. Thoerner, for example, has suggested 
as a .practical limit for wholesome milk an acidity equal to 

N 
-1- of the volume of the milk in c.c. of alkali. This is the 

same as saying 20 degrees of acidity, equal to an acidity of 
0*18 per cent of lactic acid. As recorded above, the writer has 
found this exceeded by perfectly fresh byre milk samples. 
Newman 1 recommended the determination of acidity as a 
valuable and reliable test of the staleness or otherwise of a 
milk. He advocated a standard of not more than 24 to 25 
degrees of total acidity. The Committee of the American 
Association of Medical Milk Commissions dealing with Chemi- 
cal Standards recommended that the maximum acidity of 
milk allowed should be 0*18 per cent calculated as lactic 
acid. 

The value of the estimation turns upon whether there is 
any relationship between the number of bacteria and the 
degree of acidity. The writer investigated this question care- 
fully, 2 and found no relationship between the acidity and either 
the number of bacteria or the number of B. coli. For example, 
when the three highest and the three lowest acidity results 
with fresh byre milk were taken, the results obtained were 
as follows : 

1 Public Health, 1905, xviii. p. 157. 
2 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Hoard, 1909-10, p. 474. 



20 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 
Byre Milk Samples. 



Acidity. 


Number of Organisms per c.c. 


Number of B. coli per c.c. 


23-5 


14,200 


100-1000 


22-7 1,150 


Absent in 11 c.c. 


23-5 2,150 


0-1-0-2 


17-0 6,380 


1-10 


16-0 72,800 


100-1000 


17-0 


41,600 


1000-10,000 



In addition, a large number of fresh milk samples were 
kept at 15 C. and 20-21 C. for 24 hours, and the acidity 
re-determined. The results obtained showed the rather 
striking fact that in many instances there was no increase at 
the end of 24 hours in the acidity of samples kept at 15 C., 
and sometimes none at 20-21 C. The number of bacteria 
including the B. coli group of organisms increased enormously, 
so that for these incubated samples, which may be considered 
to represent ordinary vended samples, there was still less 
relationship shown between bacterial content and acidity. 

The acidity determination cannot be considered of value 
in relation to bacterial contamination, and it is only retained 
here since it is still advocated by several authorities. 

To estimate the acidity, place 20 to 50 c.c. of milk in a narrow 
beaker or test tube, add 0*5 c.c. of phenol-phthalein solution (in 50 

N 
per cent alcohol), and run in --- caustic potash to the first 

appearance of pink. The titration should be done with a con- 
trol tube or beaker containing milk by the side, and must be 
carried out in the cold. If the milk is boiled to expel C0 2 , 
very irregular results will be obtained due to decomposition of 
certain constituents of the milk. 

FOKMALIN-METHYLENE BLUE KEDUCTIOX TlME 

Shardinger in 1902 found that a mixture of methylene 
blue and formalin is decolorised by the action of milk. The 
reaction is due to the presence of a ferment readily destroyed 
by heat, and this test was proposed by him as a means of dis- 
tinguishing between raw and heated milk. 



CHEMICAL TESTS OF MILK 205 

Smidt suggested that this estimation might be used to 
judge the degree of bacterial contamination of milk samples. 
The test has been investigated, as regards its ability for 
this purpose, by several workers with somewhat variable 
results. The writer's own results 1 show that very broadly 
there is a relationship between reduction time and the fresh- 
ness of milk. With but one exception, fresh milk samples 
always took 7 minutes or longer to reduce the blue at 50 C., 
while milk samples incubated for 24 hours at 15 C. or 
20 C., with but few exceptions, always took less than 
7 minutes to reduce. 

This information, however, is not very valuable, and 
as more reliable indications can be obtained by other tests, 
is not worth obtaining as a gauge of present bacterial 
pollution. 

To estimate, place 1 c.c. of each of the milk samples in clean 
test tubes. To each add 0'5 c.c. of a solution consisting of 
5 c.c. saturated alcoholic methylene blue solution, 5 c.c. form- 
aldehyde arid distilled water to 200 c.c. The milk and 
methylene blue solution is well mixed, and the tubes at once 
placed in the inner receptacle of a double water bath kept 
accurately at 50 C. The tubes are watched, and the time 
taken to discharge the blue colour carefully recorded. Difficulty 
is sometimes experienced owing to the end point not being 
always sharply denned. 

THE DETECTION OF HEATED MILK 

While boiled milk has a definite and peculiar taste, the 
heating of milk to temperatures somewhat short of boiling 
does not alter either its appearance or taste. Ordinary 
pasteurisation cannot therefore be detected by inspection or 
tasting. There is no legal obligation upon milk sellers to 
label or otherwise declare if their mjlk has been pasteurised. 
It is of value to ascertain if milk has been pasteurised, and 
if bacteriological standards are made use of in sampling milk, 
it becomes of great importance to be able to detect whether 
heat has been applied to the milk. 

A number of tests have been introduced to detect cooked 

1 Loc. cit. 



2o6 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

milk, all of which depend upon ascertaining the presence of 
certain milk enzymes. There are a number of enzymes in 
milk (see Chapter I.), but their thermal death points all appear 
to lie between 65 C. and 80 C. Tests for the presence of 
peroxidases are used to determine whether the milk has been 
heated or not. The tests depend upon the fact that these 
enzymes present in raw milk induce the oxidation of various 
leuco compounds by hydrogen peroxide. A number of tests 
may be used for this purpose, of which the following may be 
specially mentioned. 

Guaiacum Test. Add a few drops of tincture of guaiacum 
to half a test tubeful of milk. The formation of a green-blue 
zone where the two liquids join, indicates a positive reaction. 
The guaiacum tincture should be fairly recently prepared. 
According to Arnold and Menzel, the tincture is best prepared 
by dissolving the guaiacum resin in acetone. 

Starch's Test. To about 5 c.c. of milk in a test tube add 
a drop of weak (0*2 per cent) solution of hydrogen peroxide 
containing O'l per cent sulphuric acid, and 2 drops of a 2 per 
cent aqueous solution of paraphenylendiamine hydrochloride. 
Mix. A positive reaction consists in the rapid production of 
a blue or dark-violet colour. The paraphenylendiamine hydro- 
chloride does not keep well, and should be recently prepared. 
If the milk is sour it must first be made alkaline with lime 
water. 

Potassium Iodide Starch Test. To half a test tubeful of 
inilk add a few drops of a 5 per cent watery solution of 
potassium iodide, a little starch solution, and a few drops of 
dilute hydrogen peroxide. A positive reaction is shown by 
the development of a blue colour. 

Ortol Test. To 5 to 10 c.c. of milk add a drop of 0'5 
per cent ortol solution and 2 drops of dilute hydrogen peroxide 
solution (0*2 per cent). A positive reaction is shown by the 
presence of a mauve-red colour. The ortol solution should be 
recently prepared. 

Kastle and Porch l found that a dilute solution of trikresol 
acts as a sensitising agent in the peroxidase reaction of milk. 
Phenol, /3-naphthol, etc., act similarly. They mixed 5 c.c. of 
milk with 1 c.c. of 1 per cent solution of trikresol, 0'3 c.c. 

1 Journ. Biological Chemistry, 1908, iv. p. 301. 



XII 



CHEMICAL TESTS OF MILK 



207 



M 

- hydrogen peroxide, and from O'l to 1 c.c. of the peroxidase 

reagent (i.e. phenol-phthalein, guaiacum, or paraphenylenedia- 
mine). They obtained much more reliable results with the 
addition of the sensitising agent. 

Raw milk gives a positive reaction with these tests at 
once ; milk heated to boiling gives no reaction. The exact 
temperature at which the ferments are destroyed so that no 
reaction is obtained is usually given at about 80 C., but 
slightly different results are recorded by different workers. 
The killing of the enzymes depends not only upon the tem- 
perature, but also upon the duration of heating, although the 
temperature reached is the most important factor. 

The following table shows results obtained by the writer 
as the mean of a number of experiments with different samples 
of milk, using the above four tests : 



Temperature of 
Heating. 


Time of 
Exposure. 


Guaiacum. 


Storch. 


Iodine. 


Ortol. 


60 C. 


20 minutes 


+ 1 + 


+ 


+ 


60,, 


30 


+ + 


+ 


+ 


60, , 


60 ' + + 


+ 


+ 


70 


5 + + 


+ 


+ 


70,, 


10 


+ + 


+ 


+ 


75, , 


10 


+ a 


+ a 


+ a 


+ a 


75,, 


20 




+ b 




+ b 


75 


30 


- 


- 


+ b 





80,, 


1 minute 


P 


P 


+ fe(3min.) 


P 


80 


3 minutes 


- 


- 


- 





80,, 


5 















- =no reaction. 

+ = a positive reaction. 

+ a = positive reaction very slightly delayed. 

+ 6= ,, after about 30 seconds. 

p = a partial and indefinite reaction : no reaction at first, but after 
standing a few minutes some colour alteration occurs, but not the 
true tint. 

Experiments were also carried out to ascertain what pro- 
portion of raw milk must be present, added to the cooked milk, 
to cause the mixture to give the reactions of raw milk. A 
quantity of milk was heated to 80 C. for five minutes, and 



208 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



CHAP, 



after cooling, definite fractions of raw milk were added to 
portions of it and well mixed. The following results were 
obtained : 



Mixture. 


Guaiacum. 


Storch. 


Iodine. 


Ortol. 


Heated milk +25 per cent raw milk 


+ 


+ 


+ 


4- 


-f- 10 j, ,, + a + a 


+ 


+ a 


,, + 5 ,, +b 


+ a 


+ a 


I 







The results obtained show that when pasteurisation is 
carried out at the lower temperatures, such as 60 and 70 C., 
this fact cannot be detected by any of the above tests. The 
last table also shows that, even if the pasteurisation has been 
carried out at high temperatures (e.g. 80 C.), the operation 
can be effectively disguised, as far as these ferment-tests are 
concerned, by the addition of 10 per cent of raw milk. This 
fact is of very great importance in considering the applicability 
of using bacteriological standards to judge the cleanliness of 
collection of milk supplies. 



THE DETECTION OF PRESERVATIVES 

The detection of preservatives in milk, although a strictly 
chemical procedure, is one intimately related to the bacterio- 
logical examination, since their presence may exert a profound 
influence upon the bacterial content and totally mask any 
bacteriological evidences of want of cleanliness in preparation 
or of staleness of the milk. A bacteriological examination of 
milk should therefore include an examination for preservatives. 
The following preservatives may have to be looked for : 

Boric Acid and Borates. Evaporate 15 to 20 c.c. of milk 
to dryness in a platinum or porcelain dish, first making 
alkaline with dilute sodium hydrate solution, or preferably 
baryta water. Ignite and then dissolve the ash in a little 
hydrochloric acid. Filter and evaporate filtrate to dryness. 
Moisten the residue with a very little dilute hydrochloric acid 
solution and dissolve in a little water. Soak a piece of 
turmeric paper in the solution, then remove and dry in the 
hot-air oven. A red colour indicates the presence of boric 



CHEMICAL TESTS OF MILK 209 

acid. The red changes to a blue-green colour on the addition 
of dilute alkali solution. 

Formaldehyde. Hehner's test is simple and reliable. To 
about 10 c.c. of the milk in a test tube add about half its 
volume of concentrated commercial sulphuric acid, pouring 
the acid slowly down the side of the tube. A violet zone at 
the junction of the two liquids shows the presence of formal- 
dehyde. 

The Massachusetts 1 test is also reliable. In this test 
commercial hydrochloric acid (sp. gr. 1/2) containing 0'2 per 
cent of 10 per cent ferric chloride solution is used. Equal 
(10 c.c.) quantities of this solution and of the milk are mixed 
in a porcelain dish and the mixture slowly heated nearly to 
boiling. The presence of formaldehyde is shown by a violet 
coloration, the degree of colour varying with the amount 
present. This test is said to be able to detect 1 part of 
formaldehyde in 250,000 parts of milk. 

Another useful test, said to be able to detect 1 in 200,000 
parts of formaldehyde, is the gallic acid test. It is carried out 
by adding 2 c.c. of normal sulphuric acid to 30 c.c. of milk and 
distilling over 5 c.c. ; 0'4 c.c. of a saturated solution of gallic 
acid in absolute alcohol is added, and 4 c.c. of concentrated 
sulphuric acid is run into the mixture so as to form a separate 
layer. The presence of formaldehyde is shown by a green zone, 
gradually changing to blue, at the junction of the liquids. 

Benzoic Acid. Leach 2 gives the following method : 
Shake 5 c.c. of hydrochloric acid with 50 c.c. of the milk in 
a flask. Then add 150 c.c. of ether, cork the flask and shake 
well. Break up the emulsion which forms by the aid of a 
centrifuge, or in the absence of a centrifuge extract the curdled 
milk by gently shaking with successive portions of ether, 
avoiding the formation of an emulsion. A volume of ether 
largely in excess over that of the curdled milk has been found 
to be less apt to emulsionise (the ether may be readily recovered 
by distillation). Transfer the ether extract to a separatory 
funnel, and separate the benzoic acid from the fat by shaking 
out with dilute ammonia, which takes out the former as 
ammonium benzoate. Evaporate the ammonia solution in a 

1 Annual Report, Massachusetts State Board of Health, 1897, p. 558. 
2 Food Inspection and Analysis, 1909. 

P 



210 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

dish over the water-bath till all free ammonia has disappeared, 
but before it is completely dry add a few drops of ferric chloride 
solution. The characteristic flesh-coloured precipitate indicates 
benzoic acid. Care should be taken not to add the ferric 
chloride till all the ammonia has been driven off, otherwise a 
precipitate of ferric hydrate is formed. 

Salicylic Acid. Take 100 c.c. of milk, mix with 100 c.c. 
of water at 60 C., add 8 drops of acetic acid and 8 drops of 
mercuric nitrate solution. Shake well. Filter and shake the 
filtrate with ether in a separation funnel. The ether dissolves 
out the salicylic acid. Evaporate the ether extract to dryness. 
The residue is dissolved in a little alcohol and tested with 
a drop of 1 per cent ferric chloride solution. The characteristic 
violet colour indicates salicylic acid. 

Sodium Carbonate or Bicarbonate. Occasionally added, 
since they mask the effects of bacterial action. Their presence 
in appreciable amount is shown by the effervescence caused by 
treating the ash from milk with dilute acid. 

Hydrogen Peroxide. Add to 10 c.c. of the milk 4 drops 
of a 4 per cent alcoholic solution of benzidine and 2 drops of 
acetic acid. If hydrogen peroxide is present the mixture 
becomes blue. 

THE EXAMINATION OF CREAM AND SPECIAL FORMS OF MILK 

Condensed Milk. The varieties of condensed milk are 
considered in Chapter XX., page 391. The analysis of con- 
densed milk is mainly chemical, but a number of investigations 
have been made of its bacterial content. The chemical 
analysis is chiefly for three purposes : (a) estimation of the 
milk-fat, total solids, and ash to determine the chemical 
quality of the milk used in its preparation; (6) estimation 
of the amount of cane-sugar, or occasionally of the glucose or 
invert sugar which may rarely take its place ; (c) examination 
and estimation of poisonous metals. For directions as to the 
chemical analysis of condensed milk standard books on chemical 
analysis must be consulted. 

The bacteriological examination of condensed milk should 
be on the same lines as for ordinary milk, the sample being 
first thoroughly mixed with a definite quantity of sterile water. 



XII 



CHEMICAL TESTS OF MILK 211 



Care must be taken to thoroughly cleanse and sterilize the 
outside of the tin before opening, while the instrument to open 
the tin, which most conveniently is an ordinary tin-opener, 
must be sterilized before use. 

The records of bacteriological examinations of milk are 
not very numerous. The following will give a good idea of the 
results likely to be obtained. 

Sandilands 1 made some experiments upon the rate of 
multiplication of bacteria in condensed milk, and the liability 
of condensed milk to decomposition. He used Nestle's 
sweetened whole milk in all the experiments. He did not 
enumerate the number of bacteria in the fresh samples, but 
only after incubation at 22 and 3*7 C. respectively. Com- 
pared with cow's milk he found the bacterial content of 
condensed Kestle's milk very low, and it remained low for a 
week or more at the ordinary summer temperature of 70 F. 
(21 C.). The viscidity of the milk and the presence of added 
sugar are probably the two factors which combine to inhibit 
bacterial growth. 

Newsholme 2 records the results of the bacteriological 
examination of twelve different samples of condensed milk 
carried out by Dr. Heggs. The samples were examined when 
opened, and again after the tins had been opened and exposed 
to the air, in the laboratory, for some days. The initial 
number of bacteria present varied from 230 to 70,940 per c.c. 
on the gelatine -plates grown at 20 C., and from 120 to 
44,200 per c.c. on the agar-plates at 37 C. The duration of 
exposure to the air after opening varied from three to eleven 
days. In no case was the number of bacteria very large even 
after eleven days' incubation. These results are in agreement 
with those of Sandilands, and show the comparative unsuita- 
bility of condensed milk as a medium for bacteria compared 
with ordinary milk. 

Klein 3 examined 32 samples of 11 different brands 
of sweetened condensed milk. All contained bacteria, the 
number in O'l grm. varying from 13 to over 2000 (upon 
agar at 37 C.). Streptococci were present in O'l grm. in 

1 Journ. of Hygiene, 1906, vi. p. 77. 

2 Ibid. p. 139. 
3 Public Health, 1909, xxii. p. 222. 



212 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

2 8 cases ( = 87 per cent), while B. enteritidis sporogenes was 
present in about half the samples. 

Dold and Garratt l found that while bacilli were invariably 
present, the number was, on the whole, much smaller than 
that usually found in the same quantities of ordinary market 
milk. B. coli communis and >. enteritidis sporogenes were 
found to be absent from 1 c.c. of the condensed milk in all 
the 19 samples examined. Streptococci were found in 1 c.c. 
in 8 cases (32 per cent), in O'l c.c. in 3 cases. Pathogenic 
organisms could not be detected in any of the samples, either 
by microscopic examination or animal inoculation. 

Gordon and Elmslie 2 examined samples of 15 different 
brands of condensed milk, 5 consisting of full cream sweetened 
milk, 4 of full cream unsweetened milk, and 6 of machine- 
skimmed sweetened milk. None of the samples were sterile. 
The 4 unsweetened milk samples contained no organisms that 
were likely to have existed in the original milk before con- 
densation, streptococci, B. coll group organisms, and spore-bear- 
ing anaerobes all being absent. Streptococci with characters 
similar to those found in milk were present in all the 1 1 
sweetened samples. These investigators concluded that while 
in the process of condensing of unsweetened milk sterility is 
secured, the organisms found being subsequently introduced 
from the air, in the condensing of sweetened milk sterility is 
not attained, some at least of the organisms in the original 
milk surviving the process of condensation. Xo organisms of 
the B. coli group were isolated from any of the samples. 

Delepine 3 specially investigated the resistance of tubercle 
bacilli to the processes involved in the preparation of 
condensed milk. Fresh cows' milk was used mixed with milk 
rich in tubercle bacilli obtained from a tuberculous cow and 
with milk artificially infected with bovine tubercle bacilli. 
The mixture was condensed in a milk factory, the whole of 
the processes being carried out exactly in accordance with the 
usual procedure of manufacture. Delepine made inoculation 
experiments with the milk obtained at various stages of the 
condensing process and with the finished product. Although 

1 Journ. Royal Inst. Public Health, 1910, xviii. p. 294. 
2 lie-port by Dr. Coutts to Local Government Board on Condensed Milk, 1911. 

: > Ibid. 



CHEMICAL TESTS OF MILK 213 

the original milk was highly virulent, the milk after condens- 
ing had lost its power to infect guinea-pigs on inoculation, all 
the tubercle bacilli being killed. 

Dried Milk. The nature and preparation of dried milk 
is described on pages 393-394. To examine bacteriologically, 
the dried milk would have to be dissolved in sterile water and 
then examined by methods similar to those employed for milk. 

Cream. The bacteriological examination of cream is of 
considerable importance, since it is usually richer in bacteria 
than either whole milk or separated milk. This is shown by 
direct bacterial examinations, while in guinea-pig inoculation 
experiments it is not uncommon to find that a considerably 
higher percentage succumb to acute infections when inoculated 
with cream than when inoculated with the sediment of whole 
milk. In examinations for pathogenic bacteria, such as B. 
diphtheriae, B. tuberculosis, etc., the cream of the milk samples 
should never be neglected, while it follows that market-cream 
itself should be more often examined than is the case. 

Anderson l gives the following figures as to the number of 
bacteria in cream. In 2 6 samples of milk the average number 
of bacteria in gravity and centrifugally raised cream in the 
sediment and in the mixed milk was 



Gravity raised J C m la ^ r ' ' 68,690,000 bacteria. 
( sediment layer . . 4,840,000 



Centrifugalised { Cr ^ am la ^ er ' ' 9^,840,000 

( sediment layer . . 18,840,000 

Whole milk ..... 14,388,000 ,, 

Cream is bacteriologically examined by methods similar to 
those used for milk, the cream being diluted with sterile 
water. For examination for tubercle bacilli the cream itself 
may be injected direct into guinea-pigs. 

A chemical examination of cream for preservatives should 
always be carried out before the bacteriological examinations 
are undertaken. 

1 Bulletin No. 66, Washington Treasury Department, 1909, p. 739. 



CHAPTEE XIII 

THE DETECTION OF PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN MILK 

I. THE DETECTION AND ISOLATION OF TUBERCLE BACILLI 
FROM MILK 

Two methods are available microscopic, and by animal in- 
oculation. Isolation from the milk by direct cultivation is 
impracticable. 

Microscopic Method. Tubercle bacilli are usually present 
in only small numbers in market milk, therefore positive find- 
ings are only likely when the bacilli are concentrated. To do 
this centrifugalise the milk and microscopically examine the 
sediment. The larger the bulk of milk centrifugalised and the 
more thoroughly it is done (i.e. the faster the rotation and the 
longer the time) the greater the chances of obtaining any tubercle 
bacilli present, in the sediment. Since many of the bacilli 
are retained in the cream this should be thoroughly broken 
up after a first centrifugalisation and the mixture again 
rotated. If this is not done the cream should be separately 
examined. For practical routine purposes 50 to 100 c.c. is a 
convenient amount to centrifugalise in a machine rotating 

o o 

about 3000 times per minute, the centrifugalisation to last 
at least 30 minutes and preferably longer. 

Minute portions of the sediment are spread upon cover-slips, 
dried, fixed, and stained by the Ziehl - Neelsen method. 
Delepine recommends placing the films when dry and before 
staining in a covered capsule containing equal parts of absolute 
alcohol and ether, in which they are kept for at least two 
hours, after which the capsule is placed in a dish of water 
previously brought to a temperature of 80 to 90 C. The 
mixture of absolute alcohol and ether boils at once, and after 

214 



CH.XHI PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN MILK 215 

1 to 15 minutes of this treatment the cover-glasses are 
removed from the hot mixture and washed with absolute 
alcohol. If treatment with ether is not adopted a better 
preparation is obtained, if, after pouring off all the super- 
natant fluid, the tube is filled with distilled water, again 
rotated for a few minutes, the fluid poured off, and the films 
made. At least four films should be made and examined. 

No reliance can be placed on a negative examination as 
evidence of freedom of the milk sample from tubercle bacilli, 
since if the bacilli are present in only small numbers they may 
be missed. A positive result cannot be accepted as furnishing 
conclusive evidence of tubercle bacilli, since that organism 
may be confounded with other acid-fast bacilli, which some- 
times occur in milk. Their presence furnishes very strong 
presumptive proof sufficient for practical but not for research 
purposes. Delepine states that by adopting the treatment 
with ether and alcohol described above, no difficulty is caused 
by acid-fast bacilli. 

The procedure the writer prefers for the Ziehl-Neelsen 
method is as follows : 

Spread the sediment uniformly and not too thinly over cover- 
slips, making at least 4 preparations. Dry and fix in the ordinary 
way. 

Filter a little carbol fuchsine solution into a clean test tube. 
Heat to boiling, and then pour on sufficient to completely cover 
the cover-slip, preferably held in Cornet forceps. Leave on for five 
minutes without further heating. 

Wash in water and decolorise thoroughly but carefully in a 
watch-glass containing 25 per cent sulphuric acid. 

Decolorise further for 30 seconds in absolute alcohol. 

Wash in water. Counterstain with methylene blue staining 
for one minute. 

Wash in water. Dry and mount in xylol balsam. 

The tubercle bacilli are stained red, the tissue elements and 
other bacteria are blue. 

Antiformin has recently been introduced as a means of 
more reliably detecting the presence of tubercle bacilli in 
microscopic preparations. This substance is the name given 
to a mixture of an alkaline hypochlorite and an alkaline 
hydrate. When sputum, for example, is treated with 15 to 
20 per cent antiformin the tenacious lumps are broken down 



216 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

and dissolved. In addition the majority of the other bacilli 
present are dissolved, while tubercle bacilli resist the solvent 
action. The use of antiformin has been found valuable in the 
detection of tubercle bacilli in sputum, and it should be of 
value in the examination of milk. 

Inoculation Methods. The guinea-pig is extremely sensi- 
tive to tuberculosis by inoculation, and is the most suitable 
animal for the purpose. The method of subcutaneous injection 
as practised by Delepine 1 gives very reliable results. Two 
guinea-pigs are each inoculated with the sediment from 40 
c.c. of milk, the sediment being mixed with 2 c.c, of the 
separated milk left in the tube. Gluinea-pigs of about 200 
grms. weight are used, the injection being made subcutaneously, 
with aseptic precautions, on the inner side of the leg, at 
the level of the femoro-tibial articulation. If the inoculated 
material contains tubercle bacilli, an infection of the glands 
on the inoculated side takes place. The popliteal, superficial, 
and deep inguinal, and usually the sublmnbar glands on the 
inoculated side are enlarged (see Fig. 11), and tubercle 
bacilli can be demonstrated in films made from them. The 
time at which this can be done varies with the number of 
tubercle bacilli injected. According to Delepine, with milk 
containing numerous tubercle bacilli definite evidence of 
tuberculosis can be seen in animals killed after ten to fifteen 
days ; when not sufficiently numerous to be detected micro- 
scopically in the milk i.e. a moderate number of bacilli at 
the end of fifteen days, and when very few bacilli are present 
in the milk, it may be difficult to obtain any clear evidence of 
infection before the end of the fourth or fifth week. Delepine 
lays stress upon the importance of keeping the inoculated 
animals isolated and under favourable hygienic conditions. 
For ordinary work a good plan is to inoculate two animals, 
one being killed at the end of three weeks, and the other a 
week or two later. 

While the pathological picture is practically conclusive of 
tuberculosis, the complete proof should always be obtained by 
finding tubercle bacilli in the enlarged glands and other tuber- 
culous lesions. 

1 British Medical Journal, 1893, vol. ii. p. 664 ; Report of Medical Officer, 
Local Government Board, 1908-9, p. 341. 




(about the third week after inoculation) 
of the left knee-joint. (From Curlis's 



FIG. 11. Experimental tuberculosis in a guinea-pi 
inoculated subcutaneously in neighbourhoo 
Bacteriology.) 

The enlarged popliteal, superficial and deep inguinal, and sub-lumbar glands on the 
side of inoculation are very obvious ; also the retro-hepatic gland and diseased spleen. 



2i 8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

In inoculating market milk it is very important that the 
injection should take place as soon as possible after collection, 
and if not possible the sample should be ice-packed. When 
a considerable interval has elapsed after milking, and the 
sample is not kept cool all the time, the milk not infrequently 
contains other bacilli pathogenic to the guinea-pig, and one 
or both the animals may die from concomitant infection, and 
before the slower growing tubercle bacillus has had time to 
cause any visible lesions. 

The animal test for tuberculosis takes at least three weeks 
before any diagnosis can be made. To shorten this period 
Bloch ] has suggested that the inguinal glands on the inocu- 
lated side should be slightly damaged by squeezing them. 
When this was clone he found that in all positive cases the 
glands within 9 to 12 days were markedly enlarged and 
tubercle bacilli present in large numbers both in films and 
sections. The earlier development of tuberculosis is due to 
the greater growth in the slightly damaged glands. 

Dold L> extensively tested the question, injecting an emulsion 
of a pure culture of tubercle bacilli into the inguinal region 
of guinea-pigs. He found that after 9 to 12 days a striking 
difference could be noted ; whilst the unsqueezed glands did 
not show any, or but insignificant, enlargement, the squeezed 
glands were enlarged to tumours of a pea or hazel-nut size. 
He, therefore, advocates the method as a means of earlier 
diagnosis. He remarks that the glands can be readily found 
and squeezed. 

Joannovico and Kapsammer 3 also investigated the value of 
this method, using emulsions containing definite and diminish- 
ing quantities of tubercle bacilli. From their work they 
concluded that Bloch's method enables doubtful cases to be 
diagnosed by animal experiment within 14 days. 

In connection with animal inoculation and tuberculosis it 
is of importance to note that the injection of dead tubercle 
bacilli can produce tubercles and other histological lesions, 
resembling those produced by living tubercle bacilli, and 
differing chiefly, or even only, in their acuteness. In cases in 

1 Berlin, kiln. Wochenschrift, 1907, vol. xl. p. 511. 

' 2 Journ. Hoy. Inst. Public Health, 1909, vol. xvii. p. 560. 

3 Berlin, klin. Wochenschrift, 1907, vol. xliv. p. 1439. 



xiii PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN MILK 219 

which any doubt exists, it can be cleared up by cultivations 
from the glands, etc., of the inoculated animal. This difficulty 
cannot arise in connection with ordinary milk examinations, 
but has to be remembered and guarded against in experiments 
directed to determine the thermal death -point of the tubercle 
bacillus in milk or other substance. 

The possible presence of acid-fast bacilli in milk other 
than the tubercle bacillus, while it diminishes the value of 
simple microscopic examination, does not to any appreciable 
extent interfere with the inoculation test. The death of the 
guinea-pig, with lesions apparently those of tuberculosis, 
is almost certainly due to tubercle bacilli. As a routine 
procedure, and certainly in any cases of doubt, cultures should 
be made on glycerine agar from the enlarged glands. The 
simulating acid-fast bacilli grow readily and rapidly upon this 
and other nutrient media, unlike the tubercle bacillus. 

The American Committee on standard milk methods 1 
give a further test. They remark : 

Tuberculous guinea-pigs may be differentiated from non-tuber- 
culous by giving sufficient crude tuberculin (2 c.c.) subcutaneously 
to cause the death of the tuberculous animals in 24 hours. Of 
about 250 guinea-pigs tested in this way no animal that did not 
have tuberculosis died. Two or three that had slight lesions did 
not die but became sick. It was noted that all the animals died 
whose lesions had become caseated. 

The reaction seems of distinct service in eliminating infections 
with acid-fast organisms, and the suggestion is made that with some 
modification the procedure may have a distinct place as an aid in 
differentiating true tuberculosis from infections with other acid-fast 
organisms which produce tubercular-like lesions. 

THE DIFFERENTIATION OF HUMAN AND BOVINE TUBERCLE 

BACILLI 

As pointed out in Chapter VII. two "distinct types (apart 
from the avian type) of tubercle bacilli are met with, accord- 
ing as the bacilli are of bovine or human type, generally 
corresponding to their being of bovine or human origin 
respectively. The differences are relative rather than absolute 
and to some extent intermediate forms are met with. They 

1 American Journ. of Public Health, 1910, xx. p. 338. 



220 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP, xm 

are, however, in the main distinctive, and afford a convenient, 
practical means of classification. The essential differences are, 
that the human type possesses a lower virulence for the 
bovine animal and a greater degree of cultural luxuriance 
when grown on artificial media. As Eastwood states : 1 

These two differences, taken in conjunction, afford strong prima 
fade evidence as to whether or not a particular human bacillus is 
likely to have been derived from an infected bovine (or other animal 
capable of harbouring similar bacilli). This evidence is particularly 
valuable owing to the high degree of stability which the tubercle 
bacillus usually possesses, as shown by the fact that its individual 
characteristics are not readily changed by transplantation into the 
tissues of animals of different species. 

Eastwood finds that the parallelism between high virulence 
and scanty cultural growth is only roughly true. He finds 
that : " Whereas there is a gradual and unbroken transition 
between the cultural characters of the strains which grow least 
well on artificial media, and those which grow most luxuriantly, 
the transition in the scale of virulence is, on the whole, 
abrupt." Bearing in mind these reservations, the following 
tabular summary of the differences may be accepted. 

J5ovine. Human. 

Morphology. Cannot be differentiated. In cultures the bovine bacilli 

are, in general, shorter, thicker, and more regular in their staining. 
Cultural Characteristics. 

Serum. Grows slowly, and at Grows more rapidly, 
the end of two to three weeks 
shows on the surface of the 
medium a thin greyish uniform 
growth, not wrinkled and not 
pigmented. 

Glycerine Agarand Broth. Grows Grows readily often from the start, 
comparatively feebly and with Growth tends to become wrinkled, 
difficulty. 

The Royal Tuberculosis 
Commission divided their 
cultures into 3 grades ac- 
cording to the rate and 
luxuriance of their growth. 
Pathogenic Properties. 

Calves. Highly pathogenic. Not pathogenic. 

"In calves the subcutaneous " In calves, a subcutaneous in- 

injection under the skin of the oculation. of 50 milligrammes of 

1 Royal Commission on Tuberculosis, 1907, vol. iv., partii.. Appendix. 




FIG. 12. Human and Bovine Tubercle Bacilli Cultures upon Glycerine Agar. 
(From a photograph supplied by Dr. Nathan Raw.) 



CHAP, xin PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN MILK 223 

neck of 50 milligrammes of a culture under three weeks old 
a culture of bovine tubercle does not produce progressive 
bacilli not older than three tuberculosis in the animal, nor 
weeks produces generalised does it kill it. In the majority 
tuberculosis, starting from the of instances the inoculation re- 
point of inoculation and end- suits in the formation of a local 
ing fatally, usually within lesion." 1 This becomes retro- 
eight weeks." l gressive and localised. 

Rabbits. Highly pathogenic. Only slightly pathogenic. 

Intravenous inoculation of " Intraperitoneally and sub- 

0*01 to 0*1 mg. or intra- cutaneously injected into rabbits 

peritoneal injection of O'l to the human tubercle bacillus pro- 

1'Omg.causes acute and rapidly duces lesions which are scattered, 

fatal tuberculosis. or localised, or retrogressive." * 

Chimpanzee and Monkey. Acute Similar to the bovine type, 
tuberculosis produced by very 
small doses. 

An additional distinguishing test, introduced by Theobald 
Smith, is the amount of acid production in glycerine broth. 
Smith found that after a fairly vigorous growth has been estab- 
lished on glycerine broth the bovine type will convert a bouillon 
containing 5 per cent glycerine and of a certain degree of 

N 
acidity to phenol-phthalein (2 per cent ^-acid) into an alkaline 

medium. At the end of one to two months the solution is 
alkaline. The acidity of some types reaches 4 per cent of a 
normal solution; that of other types but 1' 5 to 2'0 per cent. 2 
The human type does not do this. At the end of one to two 
months' growth in the bouillon the solution is acid. 

The acidity reaction in glycerine broth has not been 
accepted by all workers as a reliable differentiating character, 
but Theobald Smith, who first clearly differentiated the two 
types of tubercle bacilli, finds it of great value and constancy. 
He remarks : " After a trial of seven years I find the acid 
or alkali production of different strains, under cultivation 
from one to fourteen years, constant." 

To distinguish the type of tubercle bacillus present in any 
given material the most convenient and practical tests to employ 
are the quantity and nature of the growth on glycerine agar 
and in glycerine broth and the rabbit virulence test. Guinea- 
pigs are inoculated with the material under investigation, and 

1 Royal Tuberculosis Commission, Final Report, 1911, pp. 4-6. 
2 Sixth International Congress on Tuberculosis, 1908, iv., part i. p. 651. 



224 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

the tubercle bacillus is isolated from the lesions in the guinea- 
pig. The primary isolation may be upon blood serum, or 
preferably upon Dorset's egg medium. After one or several 
generations of growth upon the egg medium subcultivations 
are made upon glycerine agar and in glycerine broth. If no 
growth takes place upon glycerine agar, as may be the 
case with the bovine type, further generations are grown 
upon the egg medium, and growth again tried upon glycerine 
agar. For the inoculation of rabbits Weber l recommends 
that two should be inoculated, one with 1 e.g. of culture 
subcutaneously and the other with 1 m.g. intravenously. 

The egg medium may be prepared as follows : "-Fresh 
eggs are washed and then partially sterilised by dipping them, 
held in forceps, in boiling water for about half a minute. 
They are opened with aseptic precautions, and the contents 
poured into a sterile flask, to which normal saline is added 
in the proportion of one part to two parts of egg. The eggs 
and saline solution are thoroughly mixed in the flask, which 
should be of large size. The medium is strained through 
muslin to remove air-bubbles, and poured as quietly as possible 
into a flask with a side tube near the bottom. The medium 
is added from this flask to the sterile test-tubes when the latter 
are in a nearly horizontal position, sufficient being added to 
make a good slope. Care must be taken to avoid soiling the 
other parts of the test tube. The tubed medium is inspissated 
at 80 C. on two successive days. 

The Detection of Tubercle Bacilli in Butter. The inocula- 
tion method is the only satisfactory one. The butter is placed 
in centrifugal tubes which are stood in warm water at 40 C. 
until the butter is completely melted. The material is centri- 
fugalised while liquid, and the sediment inoculated into 
guinea-pigs in the ordinary way. It is difficult to keep the 
butter liquid during the centrifugalisation. 

II. DETECTION AND ISOLATION or DIPHTHEKIA BACILLI 
FKOM MILK 

This organism has only been found in milk on a very 

1 Kolle und Wassermaim, Handbueh, Erganzimgsband 1906, p. 133. 
- Method communicated to the writer by Dr. F. Griffith, and used in the 
work of the Royal Commission. 



PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN MILK 225 

few occasions (see p. 78). Its isolation from milk is a 
difficult matter. The best method of examination is to take 
advantage of the rapid growth of this bacillus on blood serum. 
The milk is centrifugalised, and cultivations are made upon 
blood-serum tubes from both the cream and the sediment. 
Dilution is obtained by acting upon the same principle as 
that used in brushing agar and gelatine plates. A little 
sediment or cream is taken up by sterile platinum loop, 
and is rubbed in close vertical lines over the surface of three 
blood - serum tubes without recharging the loop. A large 
number of blood-serum tubes should be inoculated from both 
sediment and cream, incubated at 37 C., and examined after 
20 to 24 hours. A careful microscopic examination must be 
made of all colonies, avoiding those certainly not colonies of 
the diphtheria bacillus. If bacilli morphologically resembling 
this organism are found they must be subcultivated and 
obtained in pure culture. A certain diagnosis of the pre- 
sence of the diphtheria bacillus from milk cannot be made 
from the morphological characters alone. The cultural char- 
acteristics and, in particular, animal virulence must be ascer- 
tained. 

The importance of this is exemplified by the fact that 
several observers have recorded the presence in milk of bacilli 
which morphologically resemble the diphtheria bacillus, but 
which from their other characters are certainly not that 
organism. For example, Eyre, 1 from five milk samples out 
of a large number, isolated organisms morphologically closely 
resembling diphtheria bacilli. None of them were capable of 
initiating lesions in guinea-pigs resembling those produced by 
B. diphtheriae. Their cultural characters also differentiated 
them from that organism. Bergey 2 isolated a number of 
organisms from milk, drawn direct from the udder of cows, 
which morphologically resembled the diphtheria bacillus. 
They were non- pathogenic. He isolated three groups of 
organisms, of whicli the first, in their morphological and 
biological characters, very closely resembled B. diphtheriae. 
They grew on blood serum in practically the same manner as 
the diphtheria bacillus. 

1 Brit. Med. Journ., 1900, ii. p. 426. 
2 Journ. of Medical Research, 1904, xi. p. 445. 



226 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The writer, 1 examining milk samples obtained direct from 
individual cows, found in a number of them bacilli which 
morphologically, particularly when stained by methylene 
blue, closely resembled diphtheria bacilli. They showed bead- 
ing and granules, and frequently were distinctly clubbed. 
They were non-pathogenic to mice. They grew upon blood 
serum as minute white or yellow-white colonies, and differed 
from R diphtheriae in this and other cultural characters. 

III. ISOLATION OF B. TYPHOSUS FROM MILK 

The detection and isolation of this organism from milk is 
still a matter of considerable difficulty, but by the use of 
certain special media its isolation has been greatly facilitated. 
The milk is thoroughly centrifugalised, the supernatant fluid 
decanted, and the sediment mixed with a little sterile water. 
Fractions of the emulsion so made are distributed over the 
selected media, contained in a series of large Petri- dishes. 
There are now a number of special media which have been 
recommended for the purpose, and individual workers often 
obtain the best results by using those with which they are 
specially acquainted. Of these media the following may be men- 
tioned : Drigalski-Conradi agar, lactose bile-salt neutral red agar 
(L.B.A.), fuchsin agar, brilliant green agar, and malachite green 
agar. As far as the writer has experimentally investigated 
them he prefers L.B.A., but fuchsin agar is also useful. The 
composition and preparation of L.B.A. is given on page 181. 

After the plates are inoculated they should be thoroughly 
dried, uncovered, in the blood-heat incubator. They are 
then covered, inverted, and incubated. After 18 to 24 hours' 
growth the plates are examined. B. coli and other lactose 
fermenters grow as red colonies, and frequently produce a haze 
in the surrounding medium. B. typliosus and other non-lactose 
fermenters produce white colonies. The number of white 
colonies can be considerably reduced by the addition of 
saccharose, dulcite, and salicin (in 1 per cent solution), as 
well as lactose, to the medium. By their addition fermenters 
of these substances, although they may not ferment lactose, 
are also excluded, since their colonies will now be red. 

1 Report of the Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1906-7, p. 205. 



XIII 



PATHOGENIC BACTERIA IN MILK 227 



All the white colonies should be investigated. One method 
is to pick off and subcultivate in broth each white colony, 
incubating at 37 C. until next day. All the broths are 
then examined in hanging drop, and those which show actively 
motile bacilli tested with antityphoid serum. A fairly powerful 
serum should be used, and a dilution of not less than 1 per 
cent employed. 

A quicker and often preferable method is to directly 
test each of the white colonies with the antityphoid serum 
by rubbing up a little of the colony in a drop of 1 per 
cent serum on a cover-glass. Only those which react are 
subcultivated. All those which fail to show agglutination 
are rejected, while those reacting are each subcultivated into 
litmus milk, glucose litmus broth (in a double tube), and 
lactose peptone solution (in a double tube). All the organisms 
giving cultural characters in these media which accord with 
those of B. typliosus are then fully worked out. The tests 
should include accurate and extended agglutination tests with 
highly dilute sera. 

Some such procedure as the above will rapidly decide 
whether any typhoid bacilli have been isolated. 

The isolation of Spirillum cholerae and other pathogenic 
bacteria may be carried out on the general lines set out in 
text -books of bacteriology, and these should be consulted. 
They are not sufficiently frequently met with in milk to 
warrant a special description in this place. 



CHAPTEE XIV 

INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS AND BACTERIOLOGICAL STANDARDS 

FOR MILK 

MILK is liable to bacterial pollution from numerous sources, 
but they can all be included into three groups : 

A. Bacterial contamination from the cow herself before 
the milk leaves the teats. This may be with harmful bacteria, 
such as the tubercle bacillus or some streptococci ; or harmless, 
such as from saprophytic streptococci and staphylococci present 
in the milk cistern of the udder. 

B. Bacterial contamination from, specific disease-producing 
bacilli, such as B. typliosus or B. diphtheriae, gaining access to 
the milk from infected sources. 

C. General bacterial contamination due to insufficient 
cleanliness at the time of milking and subsequently up to the 
time of consumption. 

The first two sources are very different from the third, 
and involve the detection of certain special disease-producing 
bacilli. For these the actual detection is all that matters, and 
their quantitative presence is comparatively immaterial. With 
infection from these two sources there is no question of 
numerical standards, and difficulties in the interpretation of 
results do not arise. The third source of pollution is very 
different, and the quantitative estimation of bacteria, or groups 
of bacteria, is of essential importance. This necessitates the 
consideration of the question of standards and the interpretation 
of results. 

To measure the general bacterial contamination of milk 
the following procedures are available : 

228 



CH. xiv BACTERIAL POLLUTION OF MILK 229 

Estimation of the total number of bacteria. 

,, number of B. coli and allied organisms. 

streptococci. 

B. enteritidis sporogenes spores. 

Procedures such as the estimation of the degree of acidity and 
the amount of sediment, which indirectly indicate the bacterial 
contamination, have been dealt with in Chapters XL and XII. 
The advantages and limitations of these four procedures will 
be briefly considered. 



ESTIMATION OF THE NUMBER OF BACTERIA 

Prejudicial contamination of milk is essentially one with 
bacteria-holding substances, and milk is dangerous because of 
the bacteria in it. The estimation of the number of bacteria in 
milk should serve, therefore, as a reliable index of the degree 
of pollution to which it has been subjected, and as a measure of 
the undesirable condition to which it has attained. On the 
other hand, numerous objections may be raised to this estima- 
tion, which must be considered. 

(a) Actual estimations vary greatly with the details of 
the laboratory procedure adopted. To estimate the total 
number of bacteria is, with present methods, an absolute im- 
possibility. The bacterial count which is obtained is merely 
that number of organisms which will develop upon the par- 
ticular medium used within the arbitrary time selected and at 
the particular temperature employed. Variation in any of the 
factors will cause variation in the resulting bacterial count. 

So varied are the kinds of bacteria in milk, and so sensitive 
are many of them to the action of temperature, chemical re- 
action, and nutritive material, that the differences met with, 
due to variations in the methods employed, are not slight 
and unimportant but very marked. They are very much 
greater than the differences met with in water enumerations 
obtained by different methods. Indeed, these laboratory 
details are so important that very little practical and no 
scientific utility is attained by comparing the number of 
bacteria in milk in different places when the exact enumeration 
procedures are different or not recorded. 

To say that milk shall contain not more than so many 



2 3 o MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

bacteria per unit of volume is really only possible with an 
exactly defined procedure, and is meaningless when applied as a 
statement referable to milk generally arid without regard to 
a rigidly defined laboratory procedure. It may be urged that 
these objections can all be answered by the provision of a 
uniformly accepted, easily performed, and exactly defined 
laboratory procedure. While this would greatly increase the 
practical utility of bacterial milk counts it is not possible to 
eliminate all variants and to obtain absolute uniformity of 
procedure. Chemicals vary, the reactions of media alter 
with time, etc. These and other slight variants prevent any 
absolute uniformity. 

(&) A second objection to this measure of pollution is that 
it makes no distinction between bacterial pollution before and 
that after the milk leaves the cow. It has been shown that 
milk, as delivered from the teats, frequently contains large 
numbers of staphylococci, and, to a lesser extent, streptococci 
and other organisms. We have no evidence that such organ- 
isms are harmful, or any reasonable grounds for demanding 
that milk containing them should be rejected. Every pre- 
caution in regard to milking may be taken to prevent external 
contamination, but they will still gain access and be counted 
as so many bacteria in the milk. The measurement is not 
purely one of external contamination. It is not the presence 
of large numbers of bacteria as such which is bad, but numer- 
ous bacteria are objected to because their presence shows that 
the methods of obtaining and handling milk used are such as 
permit undesirable bacteria-laden matter to gain access, matter 
which may contain harmful organisms. 

(c) A third objection only applies to vended milk. While 
the general bacterial estimation, in spite of the above draw- 
backs, is capable, under rigidly defined conditions, of being 
used as a fairly accurate measure of the amount of pollution 
in samples collected at the farm, it cannot under present con- 
ditions serve to gauge the outside pollution of samples of milk 
collected as vended. An ordinary sample of vended milk 
obtained under reasonably clean conditions, and with but little 
outside bacterial pollution, may show, owing to multiplica- 
tion of the bacteria, a much higher bacterial count than an- 
other sample collected under conditions of gross neglect, but 



xiv BACTERIAL POLLUTION OF MILK 231 

examined after only a short period from milking, or perhaps 
taken at a cooler time of the year. 

While this objection applies to some of the other bacterial 
tests for pollution, it is particularly operative for this estima- 
tion, since ordinary milk is so bacterially complex. The 
experiments recorded in Chapter IV. show that there is 
no regularity in the multiplication of bacteria in milk, even 
under known conditions of time and temperature. It is not 
in any way possible to gauge the amount of external pollution 
which has been added to milk from the estimation of the 
number of bacteria in chance samples of vended milk. 

ESTIMATION OF THE NUMBER OF BACILLUS COLI AND ALLIED 

ORGANISMS 

In seeking for a reliable measure of the degree of manurial 
pollution of milk, attention is naturally directed to the group 
containing B. coli and allied organisms. The writer, in his 
book The Bacteriological Examination of Water - Supplies 
(1906), defined the conditions of a perfect bacterial indicator 
as the following : 

1. It should be abundant in the substances for which its 
presence serves as an indicator. 

2. It should be absent, or at least relatively absent, from 
all other sources. 

3. It should be easily isolated and numerically estimated. 

4. Its characteristics should be definite and not liable to 
variation, whereby its distinctive characters might be impaired. 

B. coli, as an indicator of the manurial contamination of 
milk, fulfils these conditions very adequately, as far as samples 
collected at the cowsheds are concerned. 

B. coli is extremely abundant in manure, while it is 
absent from sources not subject to manurial pollution. 

It has been shown in earlier chapters that B. coli and 
other glucose fermenters are not found in milk drawn direct 
from the teat, and that they are absent in milk samples 
collected under conditions of great cleanliness. 

B. coli and allied organisms can be readily isolated and 
numerically determined, while their characters can be defined 
with sufficient accuracy. 



232 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

As regards the characters considered to be essential to 
constitute B. coli, considerable divergence is noticeable between 
different workers. The problem is less acute than is the 
case when determining the significance of these organisms in 
water, since in the latter allied organisms may be derived from 
soil or other comparatively harmless sources. In milk, on the 
other hand, B. coli and the closely allied forms all, as far as 
we know, equally indicate outside manurial pollution. It is 
also possible that certain varieties of B. coli, for example those 
which ferment or do not ferment dulcite, saccharose, etc., are 
of greater significance as manurial indicators than other 
strains, but this has not yet been established. 

This estimation, as regards samples taken at the byre, is 
a very direct and valuable method of measuring the degree and 
extent of manurial contamination. 

The value of the enumeration for chance samples of ordin- 
ary vended milk involves matters of great complexity, and it 
is a problem of great difficulty to correctly gauge the sig- 
nificance of their presence. If it were a practicable and univer- 
sally adopted procedure to thoroughly cool niilk after collection, 
and then to maintain it until sold at a temperature so low that 
B. coli will not multiply in it, any standards framed for B. 
coli in byre milk would be equally applicable to milk as sold. 
Under present conditions this is by no means the case, and it 
becomes a very complicated problem to say what number of 
B. coli may be allowed in vended milk samples as sold under 
present-day conditions. 

The solution of the problem turns upon the rate of multipli- 
cation of B. coli in milk under varying conditions of temperature 
and bacterial content. A number of experiments dealing with 
this matter have been considered in Chapter IV., but certain 
theoretical considerations bearing upon the question of definite 
standards may be conveniently discussed here. 

The actual number of B. coli in milk samples will depend 
upon five factors : 

(a) The initial number added at the time of milking. 

(&) The temperature at which the milk has been kept. 

(c) The time since milking. 

(d) The other kinds of bacteria present, and their relative 
proportion in the sample. 



xiv BACTERIAL POLLUTION OF MILK 233 

(e) The bacteria added to the milk subsequent to the 
initial pollution at the byre. 

It may be said that the various investigations carried out 
show that temperature is the most important of these five 
factors, while, at the same time, it is the one most subject to 
variation and fluctuation. Temperature being a more potent 
factor than initial numbers, when the former is unknown or 
variable it is obviously impossible to measure the initial milk 
pollution by an examination of ordinary milk samples. 

It may be argued that the B. coli are in themselves 
harmful, and, if numerous, the milk on that ground is bad, 
whether the initial pollution was large or not. This view 
cannot be accepted, the importance of the B. coli estimation 
depending solely upon its value as an indicator of pollution. 

The problem may be looked at in another way. Maximum 
limits may be taken and maximum standards, not to be 
exceeded, framed. Using algebraic notation, we may state 
the proposition that a milk with an initial coli content of not 
greater than x, kept for not more than y hours at a tem- 
perature not greater than t, will show a coli content always 
below z. 

Leaving aside bacterial pollution subsequent to that at 
the byre, if a coli content greater than z is obtained with a 
vended milk sample, it means that either the initial pollution 
exceeded x, the temperature was above t, or the period since 
milking was greater than y hours. An increase beyond the 
limit for any one of these factors is sufficient to cause z 
to be exceeded. If x, y, and t are all allowed to be vari- 
able, it is obviously hopeless to arrive at reliable deductions 
from z enumerations. These variations cannot be defined, but 
we can define their maxima. 

It is a reasonable proposition that unless milk is kept at a 
temperature below that at which B. coli multiplies, all milk 
should be sold within 24 hours. Granted this, y may be 
taken as 24 hours as a maximum time. 

The temperature of milk, unless artificial cooling is em- 
ployed, varies with the air temperature, so that in summer it 
is higher than in winter, and multiplication of B. coli rapidly 
takes place. 15 C. (59 F.) is a warm temperature for milk, 
and if milk is initially cooled very ordinary precautions should 



234 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

prevent it being exceeded. To take t as 15 C. is to assume 
that the milk may be kept at that temperature for the whole 
period, and is obviously too generous a limit, but may be 
taken as an extreme maximum. 

A reasonable limit for initial pollution is that there should 
not be more than one B. coli or allied organism per c.c., so that 
x may be taken as one B. coli per c.c. 

The problem can now be re-stated. To arrive at the 
maximum pollution allowable in vended milk we have to 
ascertain what will be the final coli content (z) in a milk 
sample initially containing not more than one B. coli per c.c., 
kept for 24 hours at a temperature of 15 C. The figure z so 
obtained can be reasonably accepted as the maximum number 
of B. coli to be allowed in vended milk at any time of the 
year. 

Like all biological problems, in contrast to chemical, such 
determinations can never be precise and unvarying, but within 
limits they are very valuable. Two important factors leading 
to variation in actual practice have to be considered. 

1. The above considerations take no account of pollution 
in transit or in the shops of milk purveyors. It may reason- 
ably be contended that no B. coli should be admitted to the 
milk in transit. Even under the present-day unsatisfactory 
conditions it should be comparatively easy to prevent any 
considerable B. coli addition during transit or while being 
purveyed. This factor does not seriously affect the above 
contention. 

2. The influence of the number and kinds of the other 
bacilli present cannot be neglected. They considerably in- 
fluence the multiplication rate of B. coli in milk. The 
significance of this factor can only be determined by a wide 
series of experiments. 

The writer has carried out a series of such experiments. 
The chief results and conclusions obtained are recorded in 
Chapter IV. Applying these results to the practical question 
of B. coli standards for vended milk, and taking the maximum 
limits laid down above, it would seem that if the initial number 
of B. coli and allied lactose fermenters is not more than one 
per c.c. the vended milk should not contain, as a rule, more 
than 100, and certainly not more than 1000 B. coli and allied 



xiv BACTERIAL POLLUTION OF MILK 235 

organisms per c.c. This is a maximum allowance, and is based 
on the supposition that the milk is maintained at 15 C. for 
at least 24 hours. Obviously in winter such a temperature 
would not be maintained, often never reached, and a lower 
standard would still be fair and reasonable. If separate summer 
and winter standards are set up, the summer limit for vended 
milk might reasonably be not more than 1000 lactose fer- 
menters of coli type per c.c., and not more than 100 for winter 
samples, but the more lenient standards set out below might 
be adopted in the first place. These standards should be made 
more stringent as the conditions of milk transit, etc., improved. 

ESTIMATION OF THE NUMBER OF STREPTOCOCCI IN MILK 

Here the enumeration is considered purely as an index 
of the degree of cleanliness of the milk. 

Streptococci are extremely numerous in both fresh and 
old manure. They are also abundant in stale milk contained 
in improperly cleaned milk vessels. As indicators of pollu- 
tion they have this, therefore, in their favour, that they 
are abundant in the materials the presence of which it is 
wished to quantitatively measure. On the other hand, as 
has been shown, streptococci may be present in considerable 
numbers in milk drawn directly from the teats. To judge 
the cleanliness of the methods used in milk collection by a test 
which is in part independent of such cleanliness is not a 
satisfactory procedure. 

In regard to vended milk samples, the difficulties caused 
by multiplication under varying conditions of time and tem- 
perature, considered in reference to the general bacterial and 
B. coli counts, apply also to the streptococcus estimation. 

This test cannot be recommended as equal in value to 
the B. coli estimation as a means of measuring the ordinary 
manurial pollution of milk. 

ESTIMATION OF THE NUMBER OF SPORES OF B. ENTERITIDIS 

SPOROGENES 

Certain facts are in favour of this estimation. The spores 
are present in considerable numbers in cow dung. If the 



236 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

virulence test is not considered essential their presence can 
be readily determined. In particular, B. enteritidis sporogenes 
is an organism which does not multiply in milk, so that 
this determination should be especially valuable for vended 
milk. On the other hand, there is some doubt as to how far 
this bacillus may gain access to milk from other than man- 
urial sources, and these, although undesirable, may be less 
prejudicial than direct manurial pollution. The spores, being 
highly resistant, may live for very long periods. 

The ordinary method of examination is not sufficiently 
sensitive, and a more delicate method of enumeration, such as 
the one described on p. 189, must be used if this enumeration 
is to be of value. There is also a possible error due to 
unequal distribution of the spores and irregularities of 
sampling. Further experiments as to the value of this 
test are required. 

As regards definite standards, any adopted are equally 
applicable to byre and vended milk, and for all times of the 
year. 

EXAMINATION or STAINED CENTPJFUGALISED DEPOSIT 

This is a procedure which is very readily carried out, while 
the results are available without delay. It enables unknown 
milk samples to be divided into those which are recently 
collected and those which are either stale, or if fresh, then 
collected under conditions of gross bacterial contamination. 
With care a rough but useful opinion can be obtained from 
the stained deposit as to the probable number of bacteria 
present. 

Considering all the different procedures, the writer is of 
opinion that the most reliable estimate as to the bacteriological 
condition of a given milk sample, and the cleanliness con- 
ditions under which it has been collected, can be arrived at 
from the enumeration of B. coli and allied organisms, number 
of spores of B. enteritidis sporogenes, and examination of the 
stained centrifugalised deposit. 

The other procedures add very little to the information 
obtained from these three tests. 



xiv BACTERIAL POLLUTION OF MILK 237 

BACTERIOLOGICAL MILK STANDARDS 

It is a matter of much practical importance to consider 
whether definite bacteriological standards can be set up for 
milk, if they can be legally applied, and what they should be. 

It has been advanced that it is practicable and proper to 
have a legal limit of the number of bacteria to be allowed in 
milk, and such legal bacterial standards have been adopted in 
several American cities. For example, in 1904 the Boston 
Board of Health adopted the following regulation : 

No person by himself, or by his servant or agent, or as the 
servant or agent of any other person, firm, or corporation, shall 
bring into the city of Boston for the purpose of sale, exchange, or 
delivery, or sell, exchange, or deliver any milk, skimmed milk, 
or cream which contains more than 500,000 bacteria per cubic 
centimeter, or which has a temperature higher than 50 F. 

There are considerable difficulties in the way of adopting 
bacterial standards for milk, in part due to the rapid multi- 
plication of bacteria in milk, in part to the great bacterial 
complexity of even fresh milk. Bacterial standards theoretic- 
ally may be used either in themselves directly to pass or 
condemn the condemnation being followed up by punish- 
ment, such as exclusion from the area supplied, revocation of 
licence, or even prosecution or they can be indirectly used as a 
means of improving the general supply. With existing know- 
ledge, and with the present condition of the milk trade, the 
writer believes that the latter procedure is the only one which is 
feasible. It does not seem practicable, at any rate at present, 
to set up any bacterial standards either of the number of bacilli 
or of the number of any special groups of bacteria which can 
serve as a basis in themselves of direct administrative action. 

On the other hand, bacterial standards can and should be 
set up for guidance in administrative work. If a sample is 
found to infringe them, attention should be specially directed 
to the supply, the premises being, if possible, inspected, and 
those responsible warned. Bacteriological examination of 
milk should be worked hand in hand with sanitary inspection. 
In this way general improvement of the conditions of milk 
supply is likely to be effected. Persistent infringement would 
furnish reasonable grounds for more decisive measures. 



238 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

To avoid injustice in framing practical working standards it 
is necessary not only to have separate standards for byre and 
for vended milk, but these also must be varied for summer and 
winter. The following are suggested as useful working standards. 

Lactose Fermenters of coli type per c.c. 



Source of Sample. 


Pass. 


Unsatisfactory. 


Condemn. 


Byre- 








Winter (October to April 








inclusive) . 


0-4 or less O'G 


0'8 or more 


Summer (May to Sep- 








tember inclusive) 


0-6 or less 


08, 1-0 


2 or more 


Vended 






. 


Winter .... 


under 100 


100-500 


500 or more 


Summer 


1000 


1000-2500 


2500 or more 



B. enteritidis sporogenes spores. The standards suggested 
are good, or 1 (i.e. all 10 tubes negative or only 1 posi- 
tive) ; unsatisfactory, 2, 3, or 4 tubes positive ; bad, 5 or over 
positive. Rigid standards for the spores of this organism can- 
not be set up, while the results are chiefly confirmatory of the 
lactose fermenters estimation. The one standard is equally ap- 
plicable to vended and byre milk, and to all times of the year. 

To use the above standards the method of examination to 
determine the number of lactose fermenters must be defined. 
The following is suggested. 

Byre Milk 

Add 1 c.c. of milk to each of 5 L.B.B. 1 tubes. 
0-1 2 

Incubate all 7 tubes at 37 C. for two days, and record as 
positive all the tubes showing acid and gas. If the results 
obtained pass the standard, the presumptive tests are sufficient. 
If they transgress, the tubes containing the least milk yielding 
a positive result can, if considered necessary, be plated, and the 
B. coli or other lactose fermenting organisms isolated. 

Vended Milk. Make dilutions A, B, C, D, as described in 
Chapter IX. Inoculate 10 L.B.B. tubes from these, i.e.: 

1 L.B.B. = Lactose bile-salt broth. For composition see p. 180. 



xiv BACTERIAL POLLUTION OF MILK 239 

Add 1 c.c. dilution D to each of 4 L.B.B. tubes. 



Incubate all 10 tubes for two days at 37 C. and record 
as for byre milk. In summer the L.B.B. tube inoculated 
from dilution A may usually be safely omitted. 

Using this method of examination results much less spaced 
than with the usual dilutions with 0*1, O'Ol, O'OOl c.c., etc., 
of milk can be obtained, while in actual working the ex- 
amination is very simple. For byre milk samples, the seven 
L.B.B. tubes can be at once prepared from the milk with the 
one pipette, and the results read off after two days' incubation. 
For vended milk samples, the dilutions would have to be pre- 
pared with one 10 c.c. pipette, and then the ten L.B.B. tubes 
inoculated, and the results read off after two days' incubation. 

The interpretation of the results appears perhaps somewhat 
complicated, but the following explains how they should be 
interpreted. 

Byre samples. The possible variations are : 

= 10 or more 
= 5-10 
= less than 5 
= 1 or more 
= 0-8 
= 0-6 
= 0-4 
= 0-2 
= absent in 5 c.c. , 



= over 10,000 
= 7500-10,000 
-5000-7500 
= 2500-5000 
= less than 2500 
= 1000 or more 
= 750-1000 
= 500-750 
= 250-500 
= less than 250 
= 100 or more 
= less than 100 
= 10 or more 
= less than 10 



f 2 positive 


0-1 c.c. J 1 


( 2 negative 




' 5 positive 




4 


1 c.c. 


3 


tubes 


2 




1 




I o 


Vended milk samples. 


f 4 positive 
D | I " 


tubes 


?J 

1 




, o 


( 4 



per 

c.c. 



C 
tubes 

B 

tube 
A 

tube 



per 
c.c. 



f 1 

\ 



2 4 o MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH.XIV 

While complicated in interpretation, the results are 
extremely simple to record in actual work. Two examples 
may be given : 

1. Byre Milk. In a sample, four of the 1 c.c. L.B.B. tubes are 
positive, while the fifth and the two O'l c.c. tubes are negative. 

In 5 c.c. of milk = 4 lactose fermenters. 
1 =0-8 

By using the table given the same result can be read off without any 
calculation. 

Such a finding- would be recorded as unsatisfactory in summer, and 
sufficient to condemn in winter. 

2. Vended Milk. In a sample the A and B and three of the C tubes 
are positive, while the remaining C tube and the four D tubes show no 
acid or gas. 

In 0-004 c.c. of milk = 3 lactose fermenters. 

5) 1 5J 55 = 750 ,, ,, 

The sample contains 750 to 1000 lactose fermenters per c.c. a 
result which could be directly read off from the table. 

Such a finding would pass the sample in summer, but condemn it in 
winter. 



PAET III 

PUBLIC HEALTH CONTROL OF THE MILK SUPPLY 



241 R 



CHAPTEK XV 

EXISTING CONDITIONS OF THE MILK SUPPLY 

IN this chapter the general sanitary conditions under which 
milk is produced and sold in this country are detailed. The 
facts stated are in the main derived from the writer's personal 
experience in both rural and urban districts, supplemented by 
information contained in very numerous reports of Local 
Government Board Medical Inspectors, Medical Officers of 
Health, and Veterinary Inspectors. 

Chapter II. and the present chapter may be considered 
supplementary to one another, the one dealing with existing 
conditions as they supply bacteria to milk, the other with the 
same conditions from the sanitary and practical aspect. Bead- 
ing the two chapters together, the relationship of the insani- 
tary conditions to the bacteria found in milk will become 
obvious. 

The conditions at the farm naturally first claim attention. 

A. BYRE CONDITIONS 

1. Structural. The structural conditions of cowsheds vary 
enormously, and all degrees may be met with ranging from the 
sanitary, efficient, and satisfactory cowsheds erected by many 
enlightened landowners to wretched hovels lacking every 
essential of a cowshed. 

Figs. 13 and 14 illustrate cowsheds defective in almost every 
particular, and yet not very uncommon. The worst conditions 
are met with in the rural districts, and in general it may be 
said that the construction and cleanliness of urban cowsheds is 
distinctly superior to what is found in the rural districts. This 
superiority is readily explained. Urban cowsheds are more 

243 



244 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . xv 

supervised than rural, the inspector supervising often has higher 
sanitary standards, while, in particular, insanitary and unsatis- 
factory conditions reported .to an urban authority are more 
likely to receive sympathetic consideration, and do in fact receive 
more attention, than in rural areas where the individuals 
comprising the controlling authority are intimately interested 
in the dairy and fanning industry. 

The most important structural defects met with are those 
of flooring, drainage, lighting, ventilation, and cubic space. 

Flooring defects are very common in cowsheds. Many rural 




FIG. 13. A country Cowshed occupied by four Cows ; in the occupation of a 
Registered Purveyor. 

cowsheds have no properly constructed floor at all, the cows 
standing and lying upon ordinary earth, water -sodden and 
manure-saturated, with or without the interposition of some 
straw or other litter. Only less unsatisfactory is the floor 
composed of cobble stones with ordinary earth acting as the 
cement. Occasionally clay floors are met with. It is obviously 
impossible with all such floors to have any proper system of 
drainage, and usually there is no drainage at all, but some- 
times they have a channel or grip dug out along their 
length to serve for the conveyance of liquid excreta. The 
more permanent floors are composed of bricks, stone slabs, or 
cement concrete. As a rule, the bricks used are of the ordinary 




I 



CH. xv CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY 247 

absorbent variety, and when seen are frequently worn, irregular, 
and with gaping joints. The writer has only seen a small 
number of floors constructed of impervious brick. Stone 
slab floors are often very badly jointed. In the better con- 
structed sheds the floor is most commonly a cement one, and 
is usually ribbed to prevent slipping. Even with a cement 
floor, it is not uncommon to see it made so badly, and with 
such bad material, that it is all in holes and depressions. 

Where drainage is provided, as in most sheds with cement 
or brick floors, the fluids pass away by a drain into a cesspit, 
or not infrequently into the stack yard. 1 The cesspit is some- 
times uncovered, and usually is too near the sheds. 

The lighting and ventilation of most cowsheds leaves much 
to be desired. In some parts of the country for example, in 
many parts of Somerset the cowsheds are entirely open on 
one side. The prejudice against the free ventilation of cowsheds 
is very strong and widespread. Even when air openings are 
provided they are often blocked up. It is common to find 
that the doors are the only means of ventilation, while, 
when openings are provided, they are often too small and so 
badly placed that they give rise to draughts detrimental 
to the cows. Lighting defects are also extremely prevalent, 
ranging from the shed which is quite dark when the 
doors are shut to the shed which is only dark in places. 
Lighting and ventilation defects are usually associated 
together. 

Gross overcrowding of cows within the sheds is also 
common, either habitually or more often only at special times. 

The actual structure of the sheds varies greatly ; 
ranging from low sheds with galvanised iron roofs to lofty 
barns with or without a hay -loft above. Even when the 
main cowsheds are satisfactory it is very common to find 
a number of loose boxes adjacent to the sheds and con- 

1 This plan is not always adopted as an economy, but sometimes for manurial 
purposes. For example, the writer inspected some newly constructed cowsheds, 
built by an enlightened and progressive landlord. The sheds occupied three 
sides of a square and were of most satisfactory design and construction, apart 
from the fact that the liquid excreta and washings were intentionally conducted 
into the central yard by short pipes. The old litter and the manure from the 
sheds were dumped into the middle of the yard, and were watered and matured 
by the liquids. The cows walked through the quagmire to their sheds. The 
writer was considered a faddist when he compelled alteration. 



248 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . xv 

taining milking cows. That these should be expected to 
have a proper floor instead of a manure-soaked floor, have 
sufficient light, and be of sanitary construction generally, strikes 
the farmer as a most exacting and unreasonable proposition 
which he resists with all his power. 

The one great, almost universal, defect of the environment 
of the cowsheds is the proximity of the manure heap. With 
a personal experience of many hundreds of cowsheds, the writer 
can only recall about half a dozen instances in which this was 
not stacked quite near the cowshed. Fig. 16 illustrates an 
extreme but by no means uncommon example of such manurial 
and litter deposit. As a rule the cows have to wade through 
a moist, filthy, manure-filled yard to their sheds, and while 
there they are never free from air impregnated with rotting 
manure. 

2. The Cows. In most parts of Somerset and other of 
the western counties the cows are out all the summer and 
nearly all the winter. Sometimes they come into the sheds 
for milking, but often they are milked in the fields. In 
some towns the cows are in the sheds all the year round, and 
practically all the time. All gradations between these two 
extremes are to be met with. 

The state of cleanliness in which the cows are kept 
varies greatly. In exceptional cases the cows are groomed 
and kept thoroughly clean, but the general rule is to milk 
cows with more or less manure-caked hind-quarters with or 
without dirty udders. Veterinary assistance is only called in 
when a cow is obtrusively ill, and abnormalities such as sore 
teats and slight udder inflammation are often treated by the 
farmer himself. 

3. Milking Vessels. Upon some farms the cans are 
cleaned by steam, but generally hot water heated in a copper 
is employed. In the writer's experience considerable attention 
is usually paid to the need of quite clean cans, but many 
writers have recorded instances of want of cleanliness. Proper 
places with cement- or stone-flagged floors are often provided 
for washing the milk vessels. 

4. Water Supply for Cows and Vessels. This varies very 
greatly, both as regards water for the cows to drink and for 
cleaning milk vessels. The majority of the cowsheds known 



CH. xv CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY 251 

to the writer are without water laid on to the sheds for the cows 
to drink. The cows have to go outside to drink, and frequently 
their only drinking water is obtainable from ponds, ditches, 
and streams not uncommonly of very doubtful purity. That 
a supply of water is also useful to wash down the sheds is a 
fact very seldom recognised. 

Water for washing the milk vessels has to be provided, 
and frequently is of good quality, but it is far from rare for 
the only source to be derived from wells of very doubtful 
purity, and sometimes of certain impurity. In illustration 
the writer may mention two cases. In one the only water 
supply available for the cows (a large herd of 50 cows or 
more) and for washing the milk vessels was a small river 
which, about Ij- mile higher up, had received the untreated 
drainage of a large semi-urban district of about 1200 inhabitants. 
In the other the cows drank from ditches in the fields, and 
the only water supply for the milk vessels was from a shallow 
well yielding water of unpleasant odour, which the farmer 
admitted was so bad that none of the family ever used it 
for drinking purposes. 

Porter l states : " Those of us who are in charge of rural 
districts have to face the fact that a large number of farms 
rely on wells which, on analysis, would be at once condemned 
as unfit for drinking purposes, whilst many others would be 
classed as being of doubtful purity." He notes that there 
were about 100 dairy farms in his rural district (Keigate 
Eural), and that 44 relied partially or entirely on well water. 
He examined bacteriologically samples from 34 of the water 
supplies. Using very lenient bacteriological standards, 4 only 
could be considered as pure, 18 were bad bacteriologically, and 
12 doubtful. 

Kichmond, 2 as chemist to the Aylesbury Dairy Company, 
gave particulars of 278 dairy farms, on which there were 
altogether 447 water supplies; of these, 146 farms with a 
total of 210 water supplies were passed, 86 farms with 113 
water supplies were condemned and entirely rejected on this 
account, while 46 farms were found at first to have altogether 
75 polluted supplies, which were cut off, and a total of 49 

1 Public Health, 1909, xxii. p. 251. 
2 Ibid. p. 254. 



2 5 2 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . 



XV 



new good supplies were found on these farms. He remarks : 
" Excluding the public supplies, and taking only wells, springs, 
etc., into account, I find that I have been able to pass 187 
water supplies, while I have condemned 188. This indicates 
that 50 per cent of the waters on farms are polluted." 

5. Farm Dairy. Nothing is more noticeable, as a rule, 
than the contrast between the state of the cowshed and the 
condition of the dairy. The dairy is usually scrupulously 
clean, and often is an airy and satisfactory place. As a rule 
the milk to be sold never goes near the dairy. 

B. THE MILKING PROCESS 

It may be said as a general broad dictum that, upon the 
ordinary farm, arrangements for performing the milking process 
so as to avoid contamination of the milk are rarely adequate, 
and for the most part their need seems to be scarcely recognised. 
The milk pail may be clean, but that is usually all that is 
clean. 

The place of milking is usually the dusty byre, although 
in many parts of the West of England much out-of-door 
milking is done. The cow's hind-quarters, ungroomed and 
dung-laden, add their quota of manure to the milk. Fig. 
1 6 is an illustration of dirty cows, and one only too common. 
The long, untied-up, manure-stained tails of the cows are nicked 
about and assist in further contaminating the milk. The udder 
may be superficially clean, but usually shows dried dung 
adherent to the hairs. Even when apparently clean, an 
inspection of water used for washing it will demonstrate that 
its cleanliness is only a matter of degree. 

The milker, now generally a man, milks as if milking was 
a work on a level with manure carting, and requiring as much 
or as little personal care ; indeed, he will go from the one to 
the other with equal readiness and indifference. His dust- 
laden dirty clothes are but rarely hidden by an overall, and 
if one has been provided in a hygienic moment, or as the result 
of outside pressure, one it remains, and is used over and over 
again without washing, until its smooth texture is the only 
thing left in its favour. 

Farmers frequently direct (or tell the medical officer that 



CH. xv CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY 255 

they have so directed) their milkmen to wash their hands 
before milking, but as they rarely see that their orders are 
followed, and often neglect to provide facilities for washing, 
such directions do not amount to much. The writer has made 
it his practice to visit cowsheds, as far as possible, at milking 
time. He has repeatedly noted that, even when water, towel 
(sometimes even towels), and soap are provided, they have not 
been used, while even if the hands have been washed before 
starting milking, he has never once found them re -washed 
during milking. Hands soiled with milk and then used to 
push over the manure-coated flanks of cows and handle a dirty 
milking-stool fail to show any evidence of washing after two 
or three cows have been milked. 

The objectionable process of wet milking is not uncommon. 
As witnessed by the writer, the milker gives a few pulls 
at the teats, and allows a little milk to flow on to his hands. 
He then makes an emulsion of the milk and the dirt on his 
hands by rubbing them together, the overflow falling into the 
pail beneath. He then feels in a position to start milking in 
real earnest, which he proceeds to do. The writer has seen a 
man do this coming straight from manure carting. Other 
observers record that they have seen the wet milkers start by 
dipping their hands in the milk itself. 

The milk pails used to receive the milk are usually pails 
with quite open tops into which dirt and manure readily fall. 

The milk before it is sent away is strained, and whatever 
else is omitted, straining is not omitted. The strainer is 
usually a wire one with or without a layer of muslin. Not 
infrequently, however, strainers of more elaborate kind are 
adopted. The cowkeeper evidently has a lurking idea that 
pieces of manure in milk will not increase its saleable pro- 
perties, so he strains them out. He then feels he has done all 
that can reasonably be asked of him. The ineffectiveness, etc., 
of strainers is considered on page 286. 

The above is a description of the milk conditions 011 an 
average dairy farm. There are model farms where milking is 
properly conducted, and in a cleanly fashion, but they are very 
few in number. That the description given is no exaggera- 
tion is attested by a multitude of reports by impartial men. 
An example of conditions found in an urban and in a rural 



256 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . xv 

district, as recently described by Local Government Board 
Inspectors, may be given. 

Dr. Sweeting, 1 in a report on the sanitary conditions of 
the Borough of Leigh (Lancashire), states : 

I visited rather more than one half of the cowsheds. Nearly 
all that I saw were dark, exceedingly dirty, badly ventilated, badly 
paved and channelled. In many, cubic space was deficient ; but in 
the majority of instances the cows are grazed out. The udders of 
most of the cows were very filthy. The practice largely obtains of 
storing milk in larders and cellars with food and drink. . . . 
There is an excellent code of Eegulations, adopted in 1901, but 
these are not enforced. 

Dr. Wheaton,' 2 in a report upon the sanitary circumstances 
of the Helmsley Eural District (North Eiding of Yorkshire), 
writes : 

The condition of nearly all the cowsheds is extremely unsatis- 
factory, although a very few satisfactory ones are to be found. 
Some are mere hovels of rubble, with a little straw thrown over a 
few beams as a roof, almost wholly without light, ventilation, or 
drainage, and greatly overcrowded. No attempt is made to keep 
the cattle clean, or to cleanse the teats or the milkers' hands before 
milking. The dairies are in nearly all cases mere cupboards, often 
without light and ventilation, cut off from the living room by a 
loose partition only, and they are nearly always also used as pan- 
tries and larders. Frequently an accumulation of stinking filth, 
manurial or otherwise, is placed beneath the only opening by which 
fresh air can enter the so-called dairy. It need hardly be said that 
under such circumstances no cheese or butter industry could 
flourish. . . . There are Eegulations for Dairies, Cowsheds, and 
Milkshops, but they are not enforced. 

C. THE TRANSIT OF MILK FROM THE BYRE TO THE PURVEYOR 

Milk after collection at the byre may be distributed in 
three ways. In rural and small urban districts, the cowsheds 
are reasonably near the areas to which the milk is supplied, 
and the farmer either distributes the milk in his own carts, or 
sells it to a purveyor, who himself at once distributes it. 
Here there is no delay, and the milk is never cooled. The 
milk cart is ready, and when milking is completed, the cart is 

1 Report of the Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1907-8, p. 51. 
- Ibid. p. 84. 




1 



CH. xv CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY 259 

loaded up and the distribution at once takes place. The pol- 
lution at the byre is the only pollution to which the milk is 
subjected, and practically no multiplication of bacteria takes 
place between collection and distribution. The only likelihood 
of such increase is in cases where all the milk is not sold, 
and the unsold balance is kept and vended at the next pur- 
veying time, whether in the afternoon or the following 
morning. 

Farmers who deal with their milk in this way rarely or 
never cool it. For example, in the Borough of Colchester, out 
of 26 farms selling milk, almost all was sold locally, and 
upon none of them was the milk cooled. In rural areas 
some distance from a convenient urban population the milk 
has to be sent considerable distances, and almost always 
by rail. The milk is either sent off direct by the farmer to 
the town, or he delivers it at a conveniently situated milk 
depot or factory. In the former case the farmer should, but 
does not invariably, cool his milk before sending it away. His 
only means of cooling may be by standing the churn in cold 
water, but mostly when he does cool it he runs it through 
one of the different coolers on the market. 

When the milk is sent to a milk factory, the farmer 
usually delivers it twice a day uncooled and as soon as possible 
after collection. The milk factory owner cools the milk and often 
pasteurises it as well in the summer, and sends it away by rail. 
The churns of the farmer are frequently steamed and washed 
for him at the factory. Many of the milk factories or depots 
are in connection with large milk companies in the town, but 
some are independent local enterprises. 

Most of the milk depots seen by the writer have had 
proper cement floors, have been provided with a good water 
supply, and have suitable facilities for steaming and cleansing 
the churns. They are built conveniently situated in relation 
to a railway station. Fig. 17 illustrates conditions often met 
with on small milk factories and on the premises of the larger 
dairymen. Apart from the unsatisfactory jointed floor the 
arrangements shown are reasonably satisfactory. 

The present conditions of railway milk transit in England 
are decidedly unsatisfactory. The majority of the churns used 
are of unwieldy size (17 gallons), and being of bad shape and 



260 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH. 



type, permit dust, dirt, and rain to get into the milk. Orr 1 
in his investigations paid special attention to the churns used, 
and found considerable variation, especially in the form of lid 
employed. He found five patterns of lids (types A to E 
sketched below) in common use. Out of 45 noted, 8 per 
cent were type A, rainproof and without ventilating holes; 
13'3 per cent type B with ventilating holes; 6*6 per cent type 
C, i.e. funnel-shaped lid, unventilated ; 33'3 per cent type D, 
funnel-shaped with ventilating holes; and 37'7 per cent were 
type E, simple lids with or without ventilating holes. 




A. 




n 




D. E. 

FIG. 18. Diagram of Type of Milk Churn Lids. 

Type A is the only pattern which is more or less satis- 
factory, while types D and E, which comprise 71 per cent of 
whole, and are apparently the prevalent types used in England, 
are extremely objectionable. As Orr, referring more par- 
ticularly to type E but applying nearly equally to type D, 
says : 

Than this, a lid more calculated to allow contamination of the 
milk could not possibly be designed. Dust accumulates in the 
funnel-shaped portion, and either falls past the margin of the lid, 
which generally fits badly, or is washed off with the milk discharged 
from the cans. It is quite common for the milk to wash up over 
the rim lid during handling, and to take up the dust on the top in 
the process. During wet weather, any dust which escapes being 
washed in by the milk in this way is carried into the can by the- 
rain. 

1 Report on Milk Contamination, 1908. 



CH. xv CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY 263 

It may also be stated that the ordinary IT-gallon churns 
are too heavy when full, and are too deep to allow careful 
cleaning and hand-brushing. 

The churns are as a rule sent unlocked. In this way toll 
can be, and probably often is, taken of the contents on the way, 
any deficiencies being made good with water. Gross pollution 
occasionally results from this habit of leaving the churns un- 
locked. 

The means of transmission are bad. Eefrigerator cars 
appear to be unknown, and while special vans have been 
provided by a number of railway companies, they are not ap- 
parently in regular use. The milk churns are usually carried 
in badly ventilated luggage vans, often containing other and 
miscellaneous goods, and occasionally live stock. Cases in 
which the milk has been sent in fish vans or other objectionable 
vans have been noted by several writers. Orr, for example, 
reports as regards milk in Yorkshire : 

In only one instance during the present enquiry was milk 
carried in a van reserved for milk traffic only, and this only for part 
of the distance to be travelled. Here milk journeyed from Derby- 
shire to Hull and by the special van as far as Doncaster only. 
This van and another running from Leeds to Sheffield once daily 
are the only special vans used for carrying milk in the whole dis- 
tricts dealt with in this report. In all other cases the ordinary 
luggage vans, which are usually badly ventilated and close in sum- 
mer, were used for the milk transportation. The vans, as a rule, 
contained a miscellaneous collection of luggage, parcels, and dead 
meat. In one case a crate of live pigeons, in another a dog, and in 
another a quantity of fish accompanied the milk. In this last case 
the van was very dirty. 

An Inspector reported, in one instance, that the van was full of 
people, some of whom were sitting on the lids of the cans, a prac- 
tice which is common enough, but which might be a source of 
dangerous pollution, especially when so many defective lids are 
used. So many people were in this van that the air, according to 
the Inspector, was foul. As is well known, luggage vans are 
usually not over clean, and are apt to be dusty. In dealing with 
luggage also, clouds of dust are apt to be raised, which settles upon 
the tops of the churns, to drop into the milk through defective lids, 
or be washed off by the contents of the cans on pouring out. An 
Inspector reported that " a porter swept out a van, raising clouds 
of dust while the churns were in it, and the lids defective." The 
lids here were of the worst type, and badly fitted. 



264 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . xv 

Apart from the actual conditions of transit serious sanitary 
objection may be raised to the treatment of the milk before and 
after transit. Churns of milk are sometimes left for considerable 
periods on dust-exposed railway platforms standing in the sun 
(see Fig. 19). It is usually left to the milk vendor to fetch 
away his milk, and if any arrangements exist for transferring 
the milk to special cooled sheds they are only employed in a 
very few places. For example, Walford l writes as regards 
milk for Cardiff : " Most of the milk supplied to the in- 
habitants of Cardiff is delivered at the G.W.E. station, and 
remains either on the passenger platform or on a separate 
part of that platform overnight, the local milk dealer 
usually fetching it for delivery to his customers in the early 
morning." 

A most objectionable practice, sometimes carried out, is for 
the milk to be actually distributed into the milkman's vessels 
at the railway stations. This leads to much contamination. 
The two following quotations will illustrate the practice. 

Orr mentions that in 14 out of 34 deliveries at railway 
stations the churns were taken straight to the dairy and there 
transferred, but that in 16 the churns were emptied in bulk 
at or in the neighbourhood of the station, in places which were 
often in a dirty or dusty condition. In 4 the milk was 
transferred by measuring. The last procedure, involving as 
it does the dipping into the churn of doubtfully clean vessels 
by probably dirty hands, is a source of much pollution. 

Manley ' 2 remarks : 

The milk supply of this town (West Bromwich), with very few 
exceptions, arrives by rail per the G.W.R.; there, every morning 
about 11 o'clock, the cans which contain the milk are opened, and 
the milk mixed, served, and decanted from can to can by men and 
boys, who plunge their dusty coat sleeves in the depths of the can, 
and who usually have a pipe or a cigarette in their mouths ; if 
the serving is not done here it is done in the course of the round. 

The conditions under which milk is transported from the 
cowshed to the purveyor are becoming of increased importance, 
owing to the long distance which much of the milk which 
goes to large centres of population has to travel. Swithinbank 

1 Medical Officer, January 1, 1910, p. 5. 
- Annual Report, West Bromwicli, 1909. 




FIG. 20. General Shop used for selling Milk. One half of the shop is used for the sale of 
old clothes, etc., the other half for general goods, including lamp oil, raw and cooked 
meat, and mUk. (The sale of milk has now been discontinued.) 



CH. XV 



CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY 



267 



and Newman l give the following table as to the distance which 
the milk supplied to London has to travel. 



Railway. 


Maximum 
Distance in 
Miles from 
which Milk 
is carried. 


Time occu- 
pied by the 
Railway 
Journey in 
Hours. 


Whether 
Special Vans 
and Carriages 
are used lor 
Conveyance 
of Milk. 


Whether 
Refrigerator 
Vans are 
used for the 
Milk. 


Great Eastern . 


130 


4 


Yes 


No 


Great Northern 


150 


5 i 


Yes 


No 


Great Western . 


300 


11 


Yes 


No 


London, Brighton, and S.C. 
London and N.W. . . 


86 
359 


3 i 

8f 


No 
Yes 


No 
No 


London and S.W. 


150 


5 


Yes 


No 


Midland .... 


423 


12 


Yes 


No 



The table is compiled from evidence brought before the 
Committee on Food Preservatives (1901). It appears that 
the average distance from which these railway companies bring 
the milk supply into London is more than 200 miles. During 
1899 the Great Western Kailway, the largest carriers of milk, 
conveyed 23,495,925 gallons in 1,642,380 cans. 



D. THE PURVEYING OF MILK 

In London and many of the great towns the distribution 
of milk is in the hands of large dealers, who receive regular 
consignments of milk from the farmers, store it in cold storage 
upon their premises, frequently pasteurise it, and distribute it 
to their customers as soon as possible. The large milk dealers 
are usually impressed with the need of cold and of cleanliness 
in connection with the vending of milk, and from the time 
the milk reaches them there is but little to complain of. They 
usually insert clauses in their agreements with the farmers 
which aim at securing a clean milk free from the risk of con- 
veying infectious disease. While these agreements mark an ad- 
vance, and are a recognition of the need for special precautions, 
they are of doubtful efficiency as carried out, and until some 
more stringent powers are available are largely ineffectual. 

Milk is vended either delivered direct to the consumer, 

1 Bacteriology of Milk, Text-book, 1903. 



268 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . xv 

sold in special dairies, or sold in small shops, which only sell 
milk as an incidental part of their business. 

Delivery of milk in bottles appears to be rare in this 
country. The milk is usually taken round in a churn, and 
the quantity required for each customer withdrawn by a dipper 
and poured direct into the jug or other vessel of the customer. 
It is not an ideal method, and a certain amount of contamina- 
tion of the milk is likely to result. 

The dairy shops scattered about the towns are usually 
scrupulously clean, the milk vessels are equally clean, and the 
attendant neat and tidy. Indeed, for those who know the 
average conditions under which milk is produced, and the 
gross contamination to which the milk sold in such dairies 
has probably been subjected, there is keen irony in the 
beautiful surroundings which envisage the milk as soon as it 
conies within the purview of the consumer, and a whited 
sepulchre comparison is felt to be not unwarranted. 

The small shop which only sells milk as an incidental part 
of its trade is an absurd anomaly, but such shops are very 
common (see Figs. 20 and 21). In Colchester, 1 for example, 
a town of 40,000 inhabitants, there were 37 such milk sellers 
registered when a special enquiry was made by the writer in 
1904. They were for the most part small general provision 
shops, selling only small quantities of milk, very rarely more 
than 3 to 4 gallons a day. In only a few were objectionable 
substances, such as fish or paraffin, also sold, because this had 
been stopped some years earlier. Not a single one of the 
counter pans was covered, although most of the shops were 
very dusty, and many were full of flies. 

Newman " found in the Borough of Finsbury (London), 
when special enquiry was made by him in 1903, that there 
were 261 milk vendors registered: 40 were confectioners 
or maintained coffee -shops, leaving 221 who sold milk 
for consumption off the premises. The latter consisted of 
39 so-called dairies and 182 general shops. All 221 milk- 
shops were inspected, and 116 (52 per cent) were found 
to have one or more sanitary defects. As a rule, the most 
defective premises were those used for general purposes, and 

1 Annual Report, 1904. 
2 Report on the Milk Supply of Finsbury, 1903. 




FIG. 21. Part of the Premises of a General Dealer (Meat and General Shop). He sold about 20 gallons 
of milk a day, and stored it in the yard shown. The mica flap of the air inlet was broken. 



CH. XV 



CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY 



271 



where a few pints or quarts of milk were sold. In some 
cases, however, sanitary defects were met with at dairies 
carrying on a large business. Although two years previously 
instructions had been given that all the counter pans were to 
be covered in 161 shops (or 73 per cent), no cover at all was 
being used at the time of the enquiry. 

The provision made for storing milk and other foods in 
the home of the consumer is frequently extremely bad, and 
causes further pollution of the milk. In the writer's 
experience it is quite the exception to find proper larder 
accommodation in the homes of the working classes. By 
proper larder accommodation is meant some place, room, or 
even cupboard, in a cool position and with a window opening 
into the open air. For example, in Colchester the following 
figures were obtained in house-to-house inspections : 



Year. 


Houses inspected. 


Houses without 
separate Larder 
Accommodation. 


Percentage 
of Houses without 
Larder 
Accommodation. 


1905 501 


473 


94-5 


1906 931 876 


94-1 


1907 689 626 


90-9 


1908 548 


502 


91-6 


4 years. 


2669 


2477 


92-8 



Thus over 90 per cent of the houses inspected in a provincial 
town were without any proper provision for storing milk, and 
food generally, within the home. The usual storage place was 
a cupboard either in the kitchen by the side of the fireplace 
or under the stairs. Such cupboards were always unventilated 
and without openings to the outer air. 

Orr records in his report that in 22 out of 75 cases 
there was no ventilation whatever in the places in which the 
milk was stored. 



CHAPTEE XVI 

REFORMS IN THE CONDITIONS OF MILK SUPPLY 

THE average present-day conditions under which milk is 
produced and supplied have been described in the previous 
chapter. As there pointed out, they are in the main highly 
unsatisfactory and in urgent need of alteration. The present 
chapter is concerned with the practical reforms, both as regards 
the structure of premises and the methods of handling the 
milk, which are essential to the production of a pure milk. 
The machinery by which these alterations are to be effected is 
discussed in Chapter XXI., leaving actual practical require- 
ments for the present chapter. The reforms required may 
conveniently be considered under four separate headings : 

A. Eeforms at the source of supply. 

B. Eeforms in the transit of milk. 

C. Eeforms in the purveying of milk. 

D. Eeforms in the care of milk by the consumer. 

A. THE SOURCE OF SUPPLY 

1. Structured Requirements. There are at least four 
essential requirements for the structure and fittings of a good 
cowshed : 

() While protecting the cows, the shed must provide a 

sufficiency of air-space, light, and ventilation. 
(&) A structure and environment which enables the cows 

to be kept clean. 
(c) A pure water supply available for the cows, and so 

accessible that it can be readily used for washing 

down the sheds. 

272 



CH. xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 273 

(d) A construction and arrangement convenient to the 
farmer, which enables the labour of attending to 
the cows to be reduced to a minimum. 

Provided these requirements are fulfilled, a shed may be of 
very simple design, although of course some types of sheds are 
preferable to others. 

Considerable latitude may be allowed in the general 
construction of the sheds, provided the essential matters of 
ventilation, lighting, and composition of the floor are satis- 
factory. The actual material used must be largely governed 
by the local building material available. Sheds of brick or 
stone are preferable to those of wood. A slate or tile roof is 
the best. Thatched roofs are unsatisfactory, as they harbour 
much dirt, but may be rendered fairly satisfactory by covering 
the under surface with any smooth substance. Corrugated 
iron roofs are bad, owing to the difficulty of regulating the 
temperature: In many old cowsheds the ceilings form the 
floors of hay-lofts, which is a very bad arrangement unless, as 
is rare, the hay -loft is completely boarded off from the cow- 
shed with tongued and grooved boards, and separate extraction 
shafts are provided. It is an advantage to have half-doors, 
i.e. the doors to be in two halves, the top and bottom opening 
separately. 

The internal walls of the cowshed should be impervious, and 
if they are of ordinary brick they should be cement-covered 
to half-way up. A cheaper form of impervious lining is to 
smooth and cover the bricks with some form of petrifying liquid. 

Many cowsheds, particularly in Somerset and other parts 
of the West of England, are completely open along one side, 
and few cowkeepers who have used such sheds are willing 
to return to closed ones. With these cowsheds, problems of 
air-space and ventilation do not exist, and the lighting is 
usually a simple matter. 

The majority of sheds are closed, and for these some 
standard of air-space is necessary. The model by-laws of 
the Local Government Board recommend 800 cubic feet per 
cow. Some writers of repute have advocated 600 cubic feet 
per cow, but this seriously adds to the difficulty of ventilating 
without draught. In calculating air-space the model by-laws 

T 



274 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

state : " No space shall be reckoned which is more than 1 6 feet 
above the floor ; but if the roof or ceiling is inclined, then the 
mean height of the same above the floor may be taken as the 
height thereof for the purposes of this regulation." 800 cubic 
feet will give about 50 square feet of floor-space per cow, and 
this should be insisted upon. 

The lighting of cowsheds should be carefully considered. 
It is impossible to have clean cows and clean milking in a 
dark shed. The Model Eegulations are vague, and only specify 
that every dairy " shall be sufficiently lighted with windows, 
whether in the sides or roof thereof." " Sufficient " should be 
taken to mean light enough to enable every part of the interior 
to be easily visible in ordinary daylight and with the doors 
shut. It is probably better to have a definite but reasonable 
standard of amount, such as 3 square feet of light-space per 
cow. The cowkeeper often asserts that cows are healthier 
and give more milk when kept in dark sheds, but the writer 
has never met with such a one who had made any comparative 
investigations or who could substantiate that assertion in 
any way. 

Efficient ventilation is essential to a satisfactory cowshed. 
The Model Regulations are vague, and require " every cow- 
keeper shall cause every dairy in his occupation to be sufficiently 
ventilated, and for this purpose to be provided with a sufficient 
number of openings into the external air, to keep the air in 
the dairy in a wholesome condition." 

With 800 cubic feet per cow it is quite feasible to 
ventilate efficiently but without draught. The inlet openings 
should be about 30 square inches per cow, and outlet open- 
ings not less than this. These openings are to be exclusive 
of the doors. Barwise has suggested the following ventilation 
standard : " To provide for each cow 3 6 square inches of 
permanent openings, to be provided, one half in the front 
external wall, the other half in the wall above the head of 
the cow, or in the ceiling at the opposite end of the shed to 
the inlet opening." 

The ventilation provided should be such that the entering 
air does not impinge directly upon the cows, but is directed 
upwards. While this can be done in many ways, the writer 
has a preference for windows falling inwards, with side checks, 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 275 

placed on opposite sides of the cowshed, about 5^ to 6 feet 
above the ground. Inlet ventilation apertures near the ground 
are not satisfactory. The outlet ventilators are placed at or 
near the ridge of the roof. A continuous louvre running 
almost the whole length of the roof is sometimes put in, or 
one or more separate louvre openings, or openings with cowls. 
All these forms may be quite satisfactory. 

The cowkeeper not infrequently objects to adequate venti- 
lation, because, on the one hand, he declares that the sheds 
being colder, the cows produce less milk, while, on the other 
hand, he believes the animals are likely to be chilled and 
illness result. Exact experiments do not bear out the former 
supposition. For example, John Speir l concluded from a 
careful series of experiments that as much milk was pro- 
duced by the cows in freely ventilated sheds as in those less 
ventilated and warmer. 

These experiments were repeated by Lauder and Fagan 2 
in 1909-10. Two equal groups of cows as similar as 
possible in respect of age, yield, quality of milk, and period 
of lactation were selected. The one group was kept in one 
part of the byre which was freely ventilated even in the 
coldest weather, and the other in the other part of the 
byre in which the ventilation was greatly restricted, so as to 
keep the temperature as nearly as possible 10 degrees higher 
than in the cold end. The average weekly temperature in 
the cold byre varied from 43 to 55 F., the average tempera- 
ture being 50*5 F. The results showed that the average 
yield per cow per day in the cold byre was 2 7 '5 4 lb., and in 
the warm byre 27*14 lb. ; the average percentages of fat were 
3 '74 and 3*7 respectively. These results were confirmed at 
other centres. The authors concluded that byres may be freely 
ventilated even in very cold weather without impairing eitlier 
the yield or the quality of the milk. 

A herd of cows in Shropshire kept under open-air conditions 
produced as much milk as a similar herd kept under warm- 
shed conditions. The experiment was continued for four years. 

The other contention is probably the exact opposite to the 
truth. The cow is an adaptable animal, and if acclimatised 

1 Trans, of the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland, 1908. 
2 Journ. of Meat and Milk Hygiene, 1911, vol. i. p. 142. 



276 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

to cold in the autumn, it will put on a heavy coat in the 
winter. Many of the cows in Somerset are out of doors nearly 
all the year. Such animals are decidedly less likely to suffer 
from mastitis and other inflammatory conditions than cows 
living under artificial conditions of warmth, since these are 
always liable to sudden temperature variations. Of course, if 
cows are suddenly turned out of cowsheds which have been 
kept too hot by insufficient ventilation, they may catch cold, 
but this is obviously a quite different matter. 

The composition of the floor is another feature of primary 
importance. It is essential that it should be of some imper- 
vious material, and, on the whole, cement-concrete is the best. 
It should be ribbed to prevent slipping, and must be of the 
best quality. It is false economy to construct the floor of 
asphalt or poor quality concrete, since, owing to the very hard 
wear to which it is subjected, such floors soon fall into holes 
and require renewal. Some landowners and cowkeepers have 
objected to the whole of the floor being cemented, and con- 
struct the fore part of clay, as they maintain that the cows' 
knees are apt to be damaged by the hard concrete. Im- 
pervious bricks set in cement also make a good floor. 

The floor should slope gently back (^ inch fall is sufficient) 
to a grip running the whole length of the cowhouse, the grip 
having a slight fall to a gully outside the cowshed. The grip 
or manure trench should be about 12 to 18 inches wide, and is 
usually about 4 inches deep. Speir, 1 however, dealing with 
this point, remarks : " The manure channel should be 24 inches 
wide, 6 inches deep at the side next the cows, and 4 inches at 
the walk. The floor of the channel should be ^ inch lower at 
the walk than at the cows' heels. It should also have a fall 
lengthways of ^ inch for each cow." He remarks that these 
apparently trifling details are of immense importance as far as 
the cleanliness of the animals is concerned. If made in this 
way, the opportunities for a cow fouling herself from her 
excreta are largely reduced. He adds : " A sine qua non of an 
efficient byre is a manure-channel 24 inches wide, sloped as 
suggested, and nothing else will give satisfactory results." 

The distance from the front of the feeding-trough to the 
manure grip is another detail of essential importance, and one 
1 Public Health, 1900, xii. p. 775. 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 277 

upon which opinion varies. It should be sufficiently long for 
the cows to lie down properly, while it should be short enough 
to allow the faeces and urine to drop direct into the channel. 
Its appropriate exact length must vary with the size of the 
cows kept. In general, a length of 6^ to 7 feet may be 
recommended. Speir in the same paper recommends : " For 



I 



i CD I CD CD en CD CDCZD 
},Grip ' 



A, 



A 2 Gangway Gangway 



I 



p 






Feeding passage 

1 ""* 



Gangway 



I 1 " 



Feeding passage 



Gangway 



Feeding passage 



l J3ria 



Gangway 



JOrl 



Gangway 



Grip 



I en C3ci calca calca c^ en ^^ 
'Grip* or Channel \ J 
Gangway 



Feeding passage 



FIG. 22. Types of Cowsheds as met with in England. 

the smallest size of cows, such as Jerseys, Kerrys, and young 
Ayrshires, the stall should be from 6 ft. 10 in. to 7 ft. long, 
inclusive of the breadth of the trough. For Ayrshires, a stall 
7 ft. to 7 ft. 2 in. is quite sufficient, and for shorthorns 7 ft. 
3 in. to 7 ft. 6 in. suits very well." The gangway behind the 
grip should be at least 4 to 5 ft. wide. If less, the hind wall 
will be splashed with dung. 

The internal arrangement of the cows inside the sheds 



278 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

varies considerably. The chief types are shown in diagram 
form in Fig. 22. The commonest type in the writer's experi- 
ence is type A, either in its single form A 1 or the double byre 
A . It is the cheapest form to construct. The mangers are 
quite close to the wall, and there is not free ventilation round 
the heads of the cows. From this point of view it is un- 
desirable, and a feeding-passage in front of the cows' heads, as 
in type B (B x and B 2 ), is a great improvement. Type C, in 
which the cows face and breathe the air vitiated from each 
other, is undesirable. Cowsheds open along one side are 
usually similar to type D when properly constructed, but 
even for these partly open sheds a feeding-passage in front 
of the cows is very desirable. 

It is usually considered sufficient for the stalls to be about 
3 |r feet wide for each cow. It is by no means an advantage 
to allow a wide lateral space for each cow, as the animals are 
then apt to lie crosswise, and in this way foul one another 
with their excretions. The drainage should pass along the 
grip and discharge outside the shed over a trapped gully. It 
should be conducted to a properly constructed water-tight 
covered cesspool of not too large dimensions, and situated a 
reasonable distance from the cowshed. This should be 
periodically emptied over the land. 

The manure and fouled litter should be removed a reason- 
able distance from the cowshed. Their decay and maturition, 
however necessary to the farmer, are not beneficial to the cow. 
The best arrangement, and one which the writer has seen in 
use in several instances, is to put the manure at once into a 
little trolley running on rails, and run it into the deposit-pit 
at a definite distance away from the cowshed. Such a means 
of deposit is inexpensive to construct, and requires little 
labour to use. A definite regulation is required, forbid- 
ding under penalty the stacking of manure within 40 feet 
of any cowshed or dairy. Farmers sometimes complain of 
the plague of flies round the cows in the summer, and try to 
mitigate it by shutting out the light and much of the ventila- 
tion from the hapless animals. Eemoval of the manure to a 
reasonable distance is a much more rational procedure. 1 

1 Newstead (Fly Report, 1907, to the City of Liverpool) found no house-fly 
larvae or pupae in middens containing cow-manure exclusively owing to the 



XVI 



REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 279 



A water supply is required for the cowshed both to supply 
the cows and for cleaning purposes. In a number of cowsheds 
the arrangement adopted is to supply the water, by gravity 
or by pumping, to a covered tank, and from this the water 
gravitates as required to a long iron gutter running the whole 
length of the shed in front of the cows. Such gutters should 
not be less than 9 inches wide. When separate troughs are 
provided they may be of stone or concrete. A water supply 
should also be available for washing down the cowshed. 
Obviously a proper impervious floor is necessary before this 
can be done. 

2. Clean Milking. It cannot be too strongly emphasised 
that milking is a process, and a process which has to be 
repeated at regular intervals. Being a process, and not a 
concrete matter which can be settled once for all, it is essential 
that those who carry it out should understand clearly the 
nature of the ritual required, and appreciate adequately the 
results to be attained from such a ritual. In other words, 
clean milking can only be attained by those who understand 
both what cleanliness means and how to ensure it. Clean 
milking is essentially a result of education. While, on the 
one hand, it is true to say that clean milk can only be 
obtained by a milker who has been educated to the apprecia- 
tion of cleanliness in milking, it is equally true to state that 
clean milk is impossible unless certain simple environmental 
conditions connected with milking are fulfilled. These con- 
ditions are clean cows, clean milkers, clean vessels, and clean 
sheds. The attainment of these conditions will now be 
considered. 

Clean Cows. The cow is naturally an animal which pro- 
duces with ready facility manure and milk. The object of 
clean milking is to keep the two apart. To keep cows clean 
they require to be groomed. The farmer, confronted with his 
manure-caked herd of cows, almost invariably rejects such a 
proposal as impossible, and, if not impossible, certainly as 
wholly impracticable. He has said the same in the past of 
many other things, and this will, it is to be hoped, follow the 

excessive amount of moisture, but such larvae were present when horse-manure 
was mixed with it. He also notes that the admixture of straw with cow-manure 
would produce similar results. 



28o MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

same road. It is merely a matter of habit the horse is 
groomed, the cow is not. It is not necessary to remove every 
particle of manure from the hind-quarters, but they must be 
reasonably clean. There are two reasons why, at the present 
time, keeping the cows clean is somewhat onerous. One is 
that the sheds are kept and left in such a dirty condition, arid 
are so badly constructed, especially as to a suitable floor, that 
the cows readily become dirty. The other reason is the generally 
filthy approaches to the cowshed. If cows have to wade daily 
through manure and other filth they will naturally be difficult 
to keep clean. With clean sheds and clean approaches groom- 
ing the cows is not a lengthy process. The brushing and 
cleaning must be completed at least half an hour before milking 
commences. 

Orr l states : " It has been found by experiment that one 
man in winter can keep twenty cows in a clean condition by 
devoting a single hour a day to the work ; of course, this is 
only after they have been thoroughly freed from the manure 
on their haunches, the removal of which may take some days 
at first." Two minutes per day per cow has been given as a 
sufficient time, but probably a little longer than this would be 
required. In some places the cows' hind-quarters are washed 
down instead of being brushed, and there seems no objection, 
as veterinary authorities do not find it causes chills. 

Even more important than grooming is the regular cleans- 
ing of the udders and teats before each milking. Recom- 
mendations as to the exact procedure differ slightly, some 
writers recommending washing, others wiping with a damp 
cloth. A leaflet ~ of the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries 
states : " Shortly before milking begins, some one with a clean, 
rough, dry cloth should be sent to wipe each cow's udder. If 
any cow's udder is found to be soiled in such a manner that it 
cannot be cleansed in this way it should be washed. The 
practice of washing the udder was attended with no ill effects 
in the Yorkshire experiments. After washing, the udder 
must be carefully dried, otherwise the cow might get cold in 
one or more quarters of the udder." 

It would certainly seem preferable that the udders and 

1 Report on Milk Contamination, 1908. 
2 Leaflet Ts T o. 151, 1908. 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 281 

teats should actually be washed. They should be carefully 
dried with a clean cloth. Many cowkeepers have declared to 
the writer that such washing causes chapped and sore teats 
and is detrimental to the cows, but as none of them had ever 
practised such cleansing, their opinion was of doubtful value. 
The writer is not aware of any authoritative veterinary opinion 
in favour of such a supposition. He has had goats' teats and 
udders repeatedly washed, and at all times of the year, without 
any such conditions arising. It is, of course, important that 
the water and cloths used for cleaning the udders should be clean. 
The one cloth should not be used for all the cows, and several 
changes of fresh water are required, while it is very important 
that it should be used for the udders and teats only and not for 
other parts of the cow. It may be remarked that any one 
examining the water from the washing of the udders of even 
a few cows cannot but be satisfied as to the need for cleansing 
the udder. 

It may be objected that the operation of washing takes 
up too much time. In regard to this Orr remarks : " Practical 
experience shows otherwise, as two men can wash 10 cows 
thoroughly in half an hour, and, when pushed for time, one 
man can do it in the same time, perhaps not so thoroughly, 
but without apparently influencing the bacterial content of the 
milk to any extent. The cost of one man for an hour, or two 
men for half an hour, does not add much to the cost of gallon 
of milk. If the cost of a man for an hour be taken as 4cl. 
(a fair figure), and the quantity of milk produced by 1 cows 
is 15 gallons, it will be found the additional cost per gallon 
of milk is about a farthing." 

Clean Milkers. Each milker should thoroughly wash his 
or her hands and arms before commencing to milk, and if many 
cows have to be milked should wash more than once during 
the milking. Disinfectants and disinfectant soaps are quite 
unnecessary, but a nail-brush should be provided. It is im- 
portant, in order to encourage and if possible ensure their use, 
that the water, basins, and towels should be handy for the 
milkers. In so many places where the writer has been assured 
that the milkers always wash their hands before milking, on 
looking for the means of ablution he has been informed that 
they wash in the house, frequently a considerable distance 



282 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

away. Such absence of facilities is not conducive to regular 
washing, particularly at 6 A.M. 

The milker should wear a clean linen smock when milking, 
and to be worn only then. Such a smock or overall not only 
prevents contamination of the milk from dirty clothes, but if 
it is to be kept reasonably clean it will mean the milker must 
take some trouble to keep the cows, stool, and other things 
with which he comes in contact clean. It is important that 
the milking-stool should be kept clean, as, if dirty, the milker's 
hands will soon be dirty. A metal stool is preferable to a 
wooden one. 

Clean Vessels. All milk vessels should be so constructed 
that all parts can be thoroughly cleaned. All joints must be 




FIG. 23. Two kinds of Milk Pails. 

properly made. As Leaflet No. 151 states: "All should be 
cleansed immediately after use, and on no account should milk 
be allowed to dry upon them. The cleansing may be best 
accomplished by -first washing them in cold or slightly warm 
water, afterwards using hot water and a stiff brush, which is 
much better than a cloth. The utensils should finally be rinsed 
in boiling water. If steam is available, and the vessels can be 
put over a steam jet, so much the better. The hotter the final 
rinsing or steaming, the greater the likelihood of all forms of 
germ-life being killed. After cleansing, milk vessels should 
be left in an airy position, with the mouth or opening turned 
downwards, but in such a position that the air has unrestricted 
access. Parts which are not easily accessible should be 
washed with lime-water occasionally." The ordinary wide- 
open milk pail is unsatisfactory, and one with a partially 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 283 

covered-in top is preferable, as shown in Fig. 23, to exclude 
dirt falling in. It must, of course, be readily cleansable. 

Milking -Machines. In view of the contamination of milk 
which results from the ordinary methods -of milking, milking- 
machines have been welcomed by some writers as a solution of 
the problem. They have been introduced as a means of milk- 
ing a number of cows together, or at least more rapidly than 
by hand, and, apart from their sanitary importance, must 




FIG. 24. The Burrell-Lawrence-Keniiedy Cow Milker. 

succeed or fail according as they are economically efficient or 
not. They appear to have been more used in America than 
in this country. Solely from the point of view as to whether 
they are likely to give a milk freer from bacteria than one 
obtained in the ordinary way they cannot be recommended. 
They are complicated in construction, and have a number of 
long rubber tubes. They must therefore be extremely difficult 
to clean and keep clean, and in the hands of any but the most 
aseptic-minded persons are almost sure to be an added source 
of bacteria rather than the opposite. Fig. 24 illustrates one 



284 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

type of milking-machine. It is true that milking-machines 
have been tested by bacteriologists, and reported upon favour- 
ably by some although others have reported adversely, but in 
such hands cleansing would be thorough and very different 
from the routine cleansing of actual daily use. 

The careful report of Woll and Humphrey l may be quoted 
as an example of such an investigation. They tested the 







FIG. 25. Milking Machine. To show method ol cleaning the machine and its connections. 

Burrell- Lawrence -Kennedy Cow Milker (B. L. K. Milker). 
Forty separate trials were made, and the 29 cows of the 
University herd were milked continuously by the machine for 
an average of 26 weeks. The machine acts by suction, in 
imitation of the sucking of the calf. The air is partially 
exhausted by means of a vacuum pump from a tightly covered 
milk pail, which is connected by rubber tubing with a system 
of piping extending in front of the cows' stalls. The milk 
pail is connected with the cow's udder by means of a rubber 

1 Wisconsin University Agricultural Experiment Station, 1909, Research 
Bulletin JVc. 3. 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 285 

tube and the so-called teat-cups and mouth-pieces which fit over 
each teat. Through the pull of the partial vacuum in the 
milk pail the milk is drawn into it. By a mechanical device 
the suction is intermittent. Several cows can be milked at 
one time. The investigators found no ill effects upon the 
cows, while they report favourably on the economy of the 
machine. Bacteriologically they found that the milking- 
machine produced milk with a slightly lower bacterial content 
than that drawn by hand. They conclude that " the success of 
machine milking will depend largely upon the man operating 
the machine, and on his attitude towards machine milking." 
More eloquent, however, than any bacteriological tests con- 
ducted under the best possible conditions is the picture given 
of the machine and the method of cleansing (Fig. 25). 
Obviously, this is not a machine to entrust into any hands 
but those of persons trained in a bacteriological laboratory. 

3. Freedom, of the Cow and of those who handle Milk from 
Disease. From the particulars given in earlier chapters it is 
evident that if a milker or other person handling milk is suffer- 
ing from an infectious disease he may be the cause of a wide- 
spread outbreak of disease amongst the consumers of the milk. 
It is very necessary that all persons handling milk should be 
free from disease or the suspicion of disease. They should 
abstain from handling milk until proved free from disease to 
the satisfaction of the Medical Officer of Health. The expense 
of any such procedure and stoppage from work should not fall 
upon the farmer, unless proved to be due to his neglect, but 
upon the community who profits by the precautions adopted. 
All persons who have had typhoid fever should be excluded 
from handling milk unless repeated examinations of their 
stools show no evidence of typhoid bacilli. 

The importance of the cow as a vehicle for the trans- 
mission of disease harmful to man to milk has been considered 
in Chapters VI. and VII. It need only be mentioned here, 
therefore, that the cows must be healthy and free from 
disease. 

4. Care of the Milk at the Farm. The churns which 
receive the milk from the milking-pails should not stand, as 
is customary, in the cowhouse itself, but should be in a separate 
clean dairy, or if not possible, then in the open air outside. 



286 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

As a rule the milk is despatched to its destination almost 
immediately after milking, but if it has to be stored it must 
be kept in a cool, clean, and well-ventilated dairy. 

The straining of the milk, so universally practised by the 
cow-keeper, should not be necessary, and is ineffective to re- 
move the bacteria. The writer is of opinion that milk is 
better unstrained, and that as far as possible the use of milk 
strainers should be discouraged on the following grounds : 

(1) They are useless to improve the bacterial quality of 

the milk. 

(2) Unless great care is taken to keep them scrupulously 

clean they may actually increase the number of 
bacteria in milk. 

(3) They encourage the farmer to think that cleanliness 

precautions can be neglected or at least relegated 
to a secondary place, since all additions are removed 
by the strainer. This view has again and again 
been presented to the writer by the farmer as an 
excuse for want of cleanliness in milking. 

(4) It is quite possible that if one batch of milk is 

specifically contaminated (e.g. with typhoid bacilli) 
the strainer may serve to inoculate other batches 
which otherwise would have remained uncon- 
taminated. 

The less milk is brought into contact with strainers and other 
apparatus the fewer the sources of pollution. The use of a 
milk strainer should be looked upon as a sign that cleanliness 
precautions are not properly practised during milking. In 
view of the prevailing unsatisfactory conditions, there is little 
likelihood that their use will be discontinued, since without 
them the neglect of cleanliness is often apparent even to the 
unsophisticated consumer. 

The strainer figured is an illustration of one of the best 
strainers, although experiments l with it showed on the whole 
no bacterial diminution in milk when filtered through it. 

This strainer consists of a conical funnel ending in a short 
cylinder, just above which is a ledge supporting two gauze 
metal discs. Between these metal discs, which also act as 

1 Savage, Report of the Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1909-10, 
p. 474 et seq. 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 287 

strainers, is placed the filtering medium, consisting of a specially 
prepared cotton-wool. A cup-shaped lid with apertures fits on 
top of this, the whole being kept in position by means of a 
curved cross-piece which acts as a spring. A fresh piece of 
the prepared cotton-wool must be used for each batch of milk 
filtered. 

Cooling. In every case it is desirable, and in all cases 
in which the milk has to go by train, or be otherwise kept 




FIG. 26. "Ulax" Strainer. 

before distribution, it should be imperative, that the milk be 
cooled. Where proper cooling appliances are not installed 
the milk churn should be stood in cold water changed several 
times, but this is a very inefficient substitute for a proper 
cooling apparatus. 

To prevent bacterial multiplication in transit the value of 
thorough initial cooling cannot be exaggerated. Milk in bulk 
in churns cools very slowly, as the following experiment shows. 
One gallon of milk was warmed in a steam steriliser to about 
33 C., and the contents poured into a cool two-gallon churn. 
The rate of cooling was as follows : l 



288 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



Time. 


Air 
Temperature. 


Milk 
Temperature. 


11 A.M. 


16' 


33 


12 noon 


16 


30 


1 P.M. 


16-8 


27-5 


2 


19 


26 


3 . 


19 


24 


4 


19-7 


24 


5 . . 


21-0 


23 



The rate of cooling would be even slower if a larger bulk of 
milk had been used. Milk (17 gallons) chilled to 4 to 6 C., 




FIG. 27. 
Lawrence's Eefrigerator. 




FIG. 28. 
Cylindrical Refrigerator. 



kept at a room temperature of 19 to 21 C., took over 6 hours 
to reach a temperature of 13 C. 

In another experiment a churn of milk, cooled to 6 '4 C., 
was sent out in a milk cart at 11.40 A.M., covered with an 
ordinary canvas churn cover to protect it from the direct rays 
of the sun. It was driven about over parts of London, re- 
turning to the depot at 4 P.M., when the mean temperature 
of the milk was 10*8 C. The initial air temperature was 
18 '6 C., and the final 21*6 C. (a warm summer day). In 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 289 

4j hours the temperature of the milk only increased by 4'4 
degrees, although the air temperature throughout was high. 

Good milk-cooling apparatus can now be readily obtained. 
They are either of the flat or of the cylindrical type. The 
cylindrical type is not much used except for cream cooling. 

The milk passes in a thin stream over a coil of pipes 
through which a stream of cold water passes from below upwards. 
In large milk depots the milk coolers are often of double form ; 
the milk passing over the upper part is cooled by water, and 
then passes over the lower part and is cooled by a saline 
mixture to a still colder temperature. The milk is damaged 
if too suddenly chilled to a very low temperature. 

The degree of cooling of the milk depends upon 

() The initial temperature of the milk. 

(&) The extent of surface exposed to the cold water. 

(c) The temperature of the cooling water. 

(ft 7 ) The slowness of the passage of the milk. 

Three points may be mentioned in regard to the use and 
care of milk coolers : 

(1) Since the milk passes over the surface of the cooler, 
it is important that the cooler be fixed in a clean place and 
supplied with pure air. (The writer has found a milk cooler 
in a large milk factory fixed directly above an untrapped 
drain.) 

(2) The water used for cooling should be pure. This is 
not unimportant, since occasionally leaks occur and the water 
gains access to the milk. 

(3) They must be cleaned thoroughly directly after use, 
while immediately before use they should be looked to, and if 
necessary again washed. 

It is of importance that water should not be left in the 
coolers after use. This prolongs their life, while in frosty 
weather this precaution is essential. 



B. THE TRANSIT OF MILK 

In the smaller towns the milk purveyor, who may be the 
farmer himself, usually has his cart ready waiting to take the 
milk and distribute it. The milk destined to supply the large 
towns has usually to be sent by rail. Sometimes it is sent 

u 



2 9 o MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

direct by the farmer, otherwise it goes in the first place to a 
collecting depot. While usually satisfactory, this is not always 
the case. The chief requirements are light and airy premises, 
a properly made cement floor sloped to a drain outside and 
a water supply which is pure and abundant. The floor 
requires to be very well made and with the best cement con- 
crete, as the heavy churns are very apt to break it up ; spilt 
milk then lodges in the fissures and decomposes. 

They should be provided with means for generating steam, 
and with suitable arrangements for using it, to thoroughly 
clean the churns and other vessels. A cooling plant is 
also essential, while, if of any size, they should have a cold 
storage room attached, large enough to hold a number 
of churns. The latter is necessary for the milk which 
arrives late and has to be kept for many hours until the 
next despatch. Many country depots are also provided with 
pasteurising plant and cream separators. They are usually 
situated quite near to railway stations, and must be free from 
objectionable surroundings. 

For the transference of the milk from the farmer to the 
consumer or large purveyor in the big town, railway transit is 
essential, and becomes a more and more important part of the 
milk business as the agricultural land recedes from the towns 
and the large towns grow larger. To ensure that a clean, 
fresh milk shall be delivered in a state which has not 
materially affected its purity or freshness, the transit must 
be rapid, and the milk must be kept cold. In addition, to 
ensure its cheapness, the cost of transit must be low. It is 
also necessary that the transit should be in proper vessels. 

Milk Churns. As pointed out in Chapter XV. the ordin- 
ary types of churns in use are very bad. There is no necessity 
for the churns to be ventilated. The writer has carefully 
compared the bacterial content, the development of acidity, 
and the rapidity of souring in milk samples kept under 
identical conditions, except that one series were in air-tight 
bottles and the other in vessels with free air access. He found 
no constant differences. 

Doane l made determinations of the number of bacteria 
and the percentage of acid in aerated and unaerated milk. 
] Experiment -Station Record, 1903, vol. xv. No. 3. 



XVI 



REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 291 



At the end of 24 hours there was no noticeable difference in 
the acid content as shown by eleven trials conducted under 
ordinary dairy conditions. The aeration also made no appre- 
ciable difference to the development of the bacteria. 

In America it appears to be the universal procedure to send 
milk in unventilated churns. Thus Eastwood 1 remarks: "All 
the American cans I saw were covered with a closely-fitting 
metal lid, none of the lids were perforated " ; arid also : " The 
fact that, in the American trade, milk is hauled in dust- 
proof receptacles demonstrates the absurdity of the notion that 
ventilation holes are necessary." In addition to being non- 
ventilated the churns should be dust-proof and of more 
hygienic construction. 

The points which must be taken into consideration in 
devising a churn which will satisfy both sanitary considera- 
tions and trade requirements are the following : 

(1) Trade requirements are in favour of one size only. 
The general convenience of one standard size outweighs the 
fact that a churn may sometimes have to travel half full. 
Proper cleaning brushes in use at the large factories will only 
fit the one size. 

(2) The ordinary 17-gallon churn is convenient to the 
trade. It holds a lot of milk, while it is reliable and can 
just be lifted on to a cart. This size of churn is easily cleaned 
by steam. On sanitary grounds, however, it is too large for 
thorough cleansing when steam is not available. 

(3) The churns are subjected to much rough usage and 
must be strongly made. It is particularly important that 
the neck and lid should be very strong, otherwise they get 
out of shape and the lid will no longer fit properly. 

(4) From the sanitary point of view the structure of the 
lid is all important. The type with everted lid (Fig. 18, 
type A, p. 260) is often recommended, but as it will not 
satisfy the exigencies of the trade it is not a good type. The 
bent-over lid always, sooner or later, gets knocked out of shape, 
and the top will not fit properly. Churns of this type cannot 
stand on top of one another. This the trade finds necessary 
both to economise space in depots and in the carriage of empties. 

(5) The churn must be lockable, non- ventilated, water 
1 Report to the Local Government Board, 1909, new series, No. 1, p. 76. 



CHAP. 



292 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

must not be able to get in, the milk must not be able to 
get out. 

The churn illustrated (Figs. 29 and 30) is an excellent 
type, which fulfils all reasonable requirements. The knob in 
the centre of the lid is a convenience to porters when rolling 
the milk. 

A minor point, but not unimportant, is that the gallon 
marks inside must not be on a separate brass slip, but the 
content should be indicated by accurate indentations. If 




./Vozz/e protected 
' from injury 



LID 





Ki m O f ma //eable 



Edge strengthens 
with wire 



Heavy malleable iron, 
uery strong. 

Recess for flange of lief 
to prevent splashing 



Arched bottom ensur 
great strength, 



Shoulder on hoop 

,' prevents it from 



Beaded edge 
prevents bending 
and cutting floors.. 



FIG. 29. Whole Churn. 



FIG. 30. Section of Churn. 



there is a separate brass slip it works loose, milk gets behind, 
and the cleaning of the churns is made more difficult. 

The fact that the great bulk of the milk sent by train in 
this country is still sent in unlocked churns is eloquent both 
of the unprogressiveness and of the sanitary ignorance of most 
farmers, since it costs no more to send the milk in locked 
churns. The author of the valuable report upon " The Milk 
Supply of Large Towns," published in the British Medical 
Journal of 1903, dealt with the question of locked churns 
and the railway companies. Eeplies to letters to the principal 
railway companies of England were in the form of assurances 
from almost all that they were ready to carry milk in sealed 
churns at the same rate as in churns with unlocked lids. They 
required that in the case of " sealed cans " each can must have 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 293 

its tare conspicuously stamped thereon outside. The Board of 
Agriculture and Fisheries Leaflet, No. 110, "Carriage of 
Milk by Eail in Locked Cans," makes clear these same facts. 
Kegulations should be enacted prohibiting the transmission of 
milk other than in locked air-tight churns. All churns should 
have stamped upon them the name of the cowkeeper. The 
railway companies reserve to themselves the right of opening 
locked churns when there is any reasonable doubt as to the 
accuracy of the consignment. In all .such cases it should be 
obligatory upon the railway company to seal up the can 
again as soon as possible, and with their own seal, so that the 
milk- vendor may know that the opening has been by some 
authorised person. 

The need for rapid transit of the milk is generally recog- 
nised, and appears to be fairly well met, but there is need for 
more special transit. For carrying the churns special, well- 
ventilated trucks are required. They should be limewashed, 
and kept as cool as possible. Refrigerator vans are, of course, 
desirable, but it is doubtful how far they are essential, if the 
other conditions are satisfactorily met. They would add con- 
siderably to the cost of transit, and so make the rates higher. 
To make special cooled vans obligatory would throw additional 
cost upon the railway companies not only in capital expense, 
but more particularly for cost of conveyance. If, however, 
the milk trade were better organised, so that full consignments 
could be counted upon, this might not be the case. 

As Newman l points out, viewed from the railway stand- 
point, the milk traffic is not worth exceptional consideration. 
From their point of view, to make it worth their while to 
have special trucks, they must have not only a sufficient 
number of churns to carry in them, but also a reasonable 
certainty as to a regular supply of such churns. This is a 
fact often overlooked, and is one illustration of the fact that 
the cost of distribution can only be kept down by an organised 
milk trade. 

In connection with railway transit, there is great need for 
the provision of a proper shed or sheds for the storage of 
churns on arriving at the urban railway centre. Such sheds 
should be well ventilated, hygienically satisfactory, kept cool, 

1 British Medical Journal, August 27, 1904, p. 420. 



294 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

and used only for milk. The measuring out of milk on 
station premises should be prohibited. 



C. PURVEYING OF MILK 

One of the most difficult matters to adjust in any scheme 
for a purified milk supply will be regulations in regard 
to the mixing of milk from different sources. The Medical 
Officer of Health, faced with a milk-spread outbreak of in- 
fectious disease, at once seeks to find the source of the evil 
and stop further damage. If his sphere of activity is a large 
city his search is often impeded, sometimes stopped, at the 
outset. The dairyman purveying the milk cannot tell him 
the source, since all or much of the milk is mixed. From the 
public health point of view it is most important to be able to 
promptly trace back the milk to the cows which yielded it, 
and the possibly infectious persons who handled it. 

On the other hand, the large purveyor says it is impossible 
to keep all milk consignments separate. The milk as received 
is removed from the original churn, usually strained, often 
cooled, sometimes pasteurised, all this being done in bulk with 
other consignments. He points out that book-keeping would 
be impossible if every contributor's churns had to be separately 
entered and the milk kept apart. He goes further, and says 
that the mixing is essential in order to obtain a uniform 
chemical standard. It has also been suggested to the writer 
by a large purveyor that the dilution of any pathogenic pro- 
perties in one churn by the bulk of harmless milk is a great 
safeguard to the spread of infection. It may be so, but in 
view of the rapid multiplication of bacteria in milk is hardly 
likely. On the other hand, it might, by causing the cases to 
be distributed over a very wide area, render it more possible to 
overlook the milk origin of the outbreak. It is certain that 
a great deal more could be insisted upon, than is now done, in 
the way of keeping accurate records of the source of all milk, 
without inflicting any undue hardship upon the milk purveyor. 

Improvement of the conditions under which milk is pur- 
veyed will necessitate a concentration of the milk trade, and 
the small purveyor will tend to disappear. The small general 
shops selling small quantities of milk as a quite subsidiary 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 295 

part of their trading are most unsatisfactory, and, as far as the 
sale of milk is concerned, they should be eliminated by making 
the requirements as to the sale of milk on unsuitable premises 
very stringent. Short of their suppression, the sale of milk 
should only be permitted upon premises which are clean and 
in a sanitary condition. It should only be sold from vessels 
provided with proper muslin or metal covers, and the ordinary 
dipper should be abolished. Article 13 of the Dairies, Cow- 
sheds, and Milkshops Order, 1885, allows such a regulation 
as the following to be made under it : " Every retail purveyor 
of milk shall cause every vessel containing milk to be protected 
from dust, flies, and other sources of contamination by means 
of suitable covers." 

An important problem for consideration is whether milk 
should be sold in bottles or cans. 

Cans have the following advantages : They are easy to 
handle ; after the initial capital outlay there is no continuous 
expense to replace broken cans, as they last fairly well ; they 
are easy to clean. They have the following disadvantages : 
The lids become badly fitting after rough usage and allow dust 
and dirt to get in ; they afford much greater opportunity for 
home pollution ; contamination from dust may occur when the 
milk is poured into them ; they often contain short measure. 

The delivery of milk in bottles has two great advantages. 
If properly filled in a clean place, and properly sealed, they 
prevent contamination during 
delivery, while they diminish 
contamination after delivery. 
Their disadvantages are, unfor- 
tunately, many. The breakage 
of bottles is considerable, and 
makes the expense of using them 

Considerable. ^ Being heavy, a FlG . 3 1. -Steam Turhine Brusl, Machine. 

smaller quantity of milk can be 

carried round by one man. Many bottles are lost, the lower 
class of consumer breaking and retaining them, while they are 
often returned in such a condition that efficient cleaning is 
especially difficult. The bottles are difficult to clean, and to 
clean properly require costly cleaning machinery. Fig. 31 
illustrates a good type of steam turbine brush machine for 




296 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

cleaning bottles. If not dated, the milk may not be fresh ; 
even if dated, there is no guarantee that the date is correct. 

Bottles have usually been advocated on hygienic grounds 
as preferable to cans for delivery of milk. While they are 
undoubtedly better for special purposes, such as for milk 
delivered from a milk depot or for certified milk, it is doubtful 
whether there is any decided advantage derived from their use 
for ordinary milk-delivery work. The increased expense is 
very considerable, and under the conditions which are likely 
to prevail the benefits are qualified by many drawbacks. 

The milk bottles in use are chiefly of two patterns, the 






FIG. 32. FIG. 33. 

Type of bottle Milk Lottie for 

commonly used ordinary milk, 
for sterilised milk. 



FIG. 34. Cap. 



one being used for "sterilised milk" (Fig. 32), the other for 
milk bottled for delivery. The bottles for delivery have a wide 
mouth and no projections (Fig. 33). 

One of the chief difficulties is to have a satisfactory stopper 
or cap. The cap illustrated (Fig. 34), as used by Messrs. 
Welford and Sons, is a very satisfactory cap. If, after bottling 
under suitable conditions, the caps are put in at the depot, 
and the man who delivers the milk has not access to them, it 
is not possible for milk to be filled on the round into bottles 
or to be tampered with. The cap must be destroyed to get at 
the milk. 

Bottles of paper or other material, which will allow the 
bottles to be thrown away after being once used, have been 
suggested. Their use does not appear to have made any 



xvi REFORMS IN CONDITIONS OF SUPPLY 297 

headway, and it is evidently difficult to make a bottle both 
satisfactory as a milk-container and cheap enough to be thrown 
away after use. 

D. CARE OF MILK BY THE CONSUMER 

The consumer urgently requires education. There is often 
a lamentable lack of care for the storage of milk in the home. 
This is in part due to the absence of facilities for milk and food 
storage, as pointed out in Chapter XV., but in addition amongst 
the poorer classes there is only too frequently very imperfect 
and hazy notions in regard to the ease with which milk can 
become polluted. 

The provision of proper food storage in a new house should 
be as rigidly insisted upon as, say, a damp-course. The larder 
may be quite small, but it must have a window which opens 
to the outer air, must be protected from flies, and must not be 
part of a kitchen or other living room. 

Provision of storage room and instruction of householders 
as to the necessity of care in storage, the use of perfectly clean 
vessels, the necessity of covering milk and keeping it cool, are 
all essential to prevent contamination of milk after delivery. 



CHAPTER XVII 

LEGAL POWERS IX ENGLAND APPLICABLE TO MILK 

THE legal enactments in force in this country dealing with 
milk are fairly numerous, although unfortunately many of 
them are permissive and not compulsory. They are set out 
in detail or summarised, according to their importance, in the 
present chapter. 

The most important power is that of the Local Govern- 
ment Board to make general or special Orders relating to 
milk. This power is contained in the Contagious Diseases 
(Animals) Acts. Section 34 of the Contagious Diseases 
(Animals) Act, 1878 (41 & 42 Viet. c. 74), is as follows, 
substituting the Local Government Board for the Privy 
Council, the Authority in the original section : 

The Local Government Board may from time to time make 
such general or special Orders as they think fit, subject and accord- 
ing to the provisions of this Act, for the following purposes, or any 
of them : 

(i.) For the registration with the local authority of all persons 
carrying on the trade of cowkeepers, dairymen, or pur- 
veyors of milk. 

(ii.) For the inspection of cattle in dairies, and for prescribing 
and regulating the lighting, ventilation, cleansing, drain- 
age, and water supply of dairies and cowsheds in the 
occupation of persons following the trade of cowkeepers 
or dairymen. 

(iii.) For securing the cleanliness of milk-stores, milk-shops, and 
of milk-vessels used for containing milk for sale by such 
persons. 

(iv.) For prescribing precautions to be taken for protecting milk 
against infection or contamination. 

298 



CH.XVII LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 299 

(v.) For authorising a local authority to make regulations for 
the purposes aforesaid, or any of them, subject to such 
conditions (if any) as the Local Government Board 
prescribe. 

Under the above section, which is not repealed by 57 & 58 
Viet. c. 57, the Privy Council issued the Dairies, Cowsheds, 
and Milkshops Order of 1885. 

Leaving out a few legal points irrelevant at the present day, 
the terms of the Order of 1885, now in force, are as follows : 

THE DAIRIES, COWSHEDS, AND MILKSHOPS 
ORDER OF 1885 

Short Title. 

1. This Order may be cited as the Dairies, Cowsheds, and 
Milkshops Order of 1885. 

Extent. 

2. This Order extends to England and Wales and Scotland 
only. 

Commencement. 

3. This Order shall commence and take effect from and imme- 
diately after the thirtieth day of June one thousand eight hundred 
and eighty-five. 

Interpretation. 

4. In this Order 

The Act of 1878 means the Contagious Diseases (Animals) 

Act, 1878. 
Other terms have the same meaning as in the Act of 

1878. 

Revocation of former Order. 

5. The Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops Order of July 1879 
is hereby revoked. 

Registration of Dairymen and others. 

6. (1) It shall not be lawful for any person to carry on in the 
District of any Local Authority the trade of cowkeeper, dairyman, 
or purveyor of milk unless he is registered as such therein in 
accordance with this Article. 

(2) Every Local Authority shall keep a Register of persons 
from time to time carrying on in their District the trade of cow- 
keepers, dairymen, or purveyors of milk, and shall from time to 
time revise and correct the Register. 

(3). The Local Authority shall register every such person, but 
the fact of such registration shall not be deemed to authorise such 



3oo MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

person to occupy as a dairy or cowshed any particular building or 
in any way preclude any proceedings being taken against such 
person for non-compliance with or infringement of any of the 
provisions of this Order or any regulation made thereunder. 

(4) The Local Authority shall from time to time give public- 
notice by advertisement in a newspaper circulating in their District, 
and, if they think fit, by placards, hand-bills, or otherwise, of 
registration being required, and of the mode of registration. 

(5) A person who carries on the trade of cowkeeper or dairy- 
man for the purpose only of making and selling butter or cheese or 
both, and who cloes not carry on the trade of purveyor of milk, 
shall not, for the purposes of registration, be deemed to be a person 
carrying on the trade of cowkeeper or dairyman, and need not be 
registered. 

(6) A person who sells milk of his own cows in small quantities 
to his workmen or neighbours, for their accommodation, shall not, 
for the purposes of registration, be deemed, by reason only of such 
selling, to be a person carrying on the trade of cowkeeper, dairy- 
man, or purveyor of milk, and need not, by reason thereof, be 
registered, 

Construction and Water Supply of New Dairies and Cowsheds. 

7. (1) It shall not be lawful for any person following the 
trade of cowkeeper or dairyman to begin to occupy as a dairy or 
cowshed any building not so occupied at the commencement of this 
Order, unless and until he first makes provision, to the reasonable 
satisfaction of the Local Authority, for the lighting and the ventila- 
tion, including air-space, and the cleansing, drainage, and water 
supply of the same, while occupied as a dairy or cowshed. 

(2) It shall not be lawful for any such person to begin so to 
occupy any such building without first giving one month's notice in 
writing to the Local Authority of his intention so to do. 

Sanitary State of all Dairies and Cowsheds. 

8. It shall not be lawful for any person following the trade 
of cowkeeper or dairyman to occupy as a dairy or cowshed any 
building, whether so occupied at the commencement of this Order 
or not, if and as long as the lighting, and the ventilation including 
air-space, and the cleansing, drainage, and water supply thereof, are 
not such as are necessary or proper 

For the health and good condition of the cattle therein ; and 
For the cleanliness of milk- vessels used therein for containing 

milk for sale : and 

(c) For the protection of the milk therein against infection or 
contamination. 



LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 301 

Contamination of Milk. 

9. It shall not be lawful for any person following the trade of 
cowkeeper or dairyman or purveyor of milk, or being the occupier 
of a milk-store or milk-shop 

(a) To allow any person suffering from a dangerous infectious 
disorder, or having recently been in contact with a person 
so suffering, to milk cows or to handle vessels used for 
containing milk for sale or in any way to take part or 
assist in the conduct of the trade or business of the cow- 
keeper or dairyman, purveyor of milk, or occupier of a 
milk-store or milk-shop, so far as regards the production, 
distribution, or storage of milk ; or 

(/>) If himself so suffering or having recently been in contact as 
aforesaid, to milk cows, or handle vessels used for con- 
taining milk for sale, or in any way to take part in the 
conduct of his trade or business, as far as regards the 
production, distribution, or storage of milk 

until in each case all danger therefrom of the communication of 
infection to the milk or of its contamination has ceased. 

10. It shall not be lawful for any person following the trade 
of cowkeeper or dairyman or purveyor of milk, or being the occupier 
of a milk-store or milk-shop, after the receipt of notice of not less 
than one month from the Local Authority calling attention to the 
provisions of this Article, to permit any water-closet, earth-closet, 
privy, cesspool, or urinal to be within, communicate directly with, 
or ventilate into any dairy or any room used as a milk-store or 
milk-shop. 

11. It shall not be lawful for any person following the trade of 
cowkeeper or dairyman or purveyor of milk, or being the occupier 
of a milk-store or milk-shop, to use a milk-store or milk-shop in his 
occupation, or permit the same to be used, as a sleeping apartment, 
or for any purpose incompatible with the proper preservation of the 
cleanliness of the milk-store or milk-shop, and of the milk-vessels 
and milk therein, or in any manner likely to cause contamination 
of the milk therein. 

12. It shall not be lawful for any person following the trade of 
cowkeeper or dairyman or purveyor of milk to keep any swine in 
any cowshed or other building used by him for keeping cows, or 
in any milk -store or other place used by him for keeping milk 
for sale. 

Regulations of Local Authority. 

13. A Local Authority may from time to time make regulations 
for the following purposes, or any of them : 

(a) For the inspection of cattle in dairies. 



3 02 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

(1)) For prescribing and regulating the lighting, ventilation, 
cleansing, drainage, and water supply of dairies and cow- 
sheds in the occupation of persons following the trade of 
cowkeepers or dairymen. 

(c) For securing the cleanliness of milk-stores, milk-shops, and 

of milk-vessels used for containing milk for sale by such 
persons. 

(d) For prescribing precautions to be taken by purveyors of 

milk and persons selling milk by retail against infection 
or contamination, 

Provisions as to Regulations of Local Authority. 

14. The following provisions shall apply to Eegulations made 
by a Local Authority under this Order : 

(1) Every Eegulation shall be published by advertisement in 

a newspaper circulating in the District of the Local 
Authority. 

(2) The Local Authority shall send to the Privy Council a copy 

of every Regulation made by them not less than one 
= month before the date named in such Regulation for the 
same to come into force. 

(3) If at any time the Privy Council are satisfied on inquiry, 

with respect to any Regulation, that the same is of too 
restrictive a character, or otherwise objectionable, and 
direct the revocation thereof, the same shall not come 
into operation, or shall thereupon cease to operate, as the 
case may be. 

Existence of Disease among Cattle. 

15. If at any time disease exists among the cattle in a dairy or 
cowshed, or other building or place, the milk of a diseased cow 
therein 

(a) Shall not be mixed with other milk ; and 

(b) Shall not be sold or used for human food ; and 

(c) Shall not be sold or used for food of swine or other animals, 

unless and until it has been boiled. 

Acts of Local Authorities. 

1G. (1) All Orders and Regulations made by a Local Authority 
under the Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops Order of July 1879, 
or any Order revoked thereby, and in force at the making of this 
Order shall, as far as the same are not varied by or inconsistent 
with this Order, remain in force until altered or revoked by the 
Local Authority. 

(2) Forms of Registers and other forms which have been before 



LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 303 

the making of this Order prepared for use by a Local Authority 
under the Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops Order of July 1879, 
or any Order revoked thereby, may be used, as far as they are 
suitable, for the purposes of this Order. 

Scotland. 

1 7. Nothing in this Order shall be deemed to interfere with tlie 
operation of the Cattle Sheds in Burghs (Scotland) Act, 1866. 

This Order was amended in 1886 by the substitution of 
the Local Government Board for the Privy Council, and by 
the provision of a penalty. The penalty clause is Article 3, 
which enacts : " If any person is guilty of an offence against 
the Order of 1885, he shall for every such offence be liable to 
a penalty of Five Pounds, and in the case of a continuing 
offence to a further penalty of Forty Shillings for each day 
after written notice of the offence from the Local Authority. 
Provided, nevertheless, that the justices or court before whom 
any complaint may be made, or any proceedings may be taken 
in respect of any such offence, may, if they think fit, adjudge 
the payment as a penalty of any sum less than the full amount 
of the penalty imposed by this Order." 

A further Order was issued in 1899, which amended 
Article 15 of the 1885 Order in an important direction as 
follows : " Article 1 5 of the Order shall be altered so that, 
for the purposes of the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (&) 
thereof, the expressions in the said Article which refer to 
disease shall include, in the case of a cow, such disease of the 
udder as shall be certified by a veterinary surgeon to be 
tubercular ; and the Order and the Amending Order shall 
apply and be construed with the modifications necessary to 
give effect to this Article." 

Under Article 13 of the 1885 Order a Local Authority has 
power to make regulations for certain specific purposes. The 
Local Government Board have issued Model Eegulations, and 
as these have been widely followed they are given in extenso : 



3 o 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

MODEL EEGULATIONS: DAIRIES, COWSHEDS, 
AND MILKSHOPS 1 

REGULATIONS made by the 2 

with respect to DAIRIES, COWSHEDS, and MILKSHOPS in 
the 3 

INTERPRETATION 

1. Throughout these regulations the expression "the Council" 
means the 2 

the expression " the District " means the 3 

the expression " Cowshed " includes any dairy in which milking 
cows may be kept, and the expression " Cowkeeper " means any 
person following the trade of a cowkeeper or dairyman who is, or 
is required to be, registered under the Dairies, Cowsheds, and 
Milkshops Order of 1885. 

FOR THE INSPECTION OF CATTLE IN DAIRIES 

2. Every occupier of a dairy wherein any cattle may be kept, 
and which the Medical Officer of Health, or the Inspector of 
Nuisances, or any other officer of the Council specially authorised 
by them in that behalf, may visit for the purpose of inspecting 
cattle, and every person for the time being having the care or 
control of any such dairy, or of any cattle therein, shall afford such 
Medical Officer of Health, Inspector of Nuisances, or officer, all 
reasonable assistance that may, for the purpose of the inspection, 
be required by him. 

FOR PRESCRIBING AND REGULATING THE LIGHTING, VENTILATION,. 
CLEANSING, DRAINAGE, AND WATER SUPPLY OF COWSHEDS 
AND DAIRIES IN THE OCCUPATION OF PERSONS FOLLOWING 
THE TRADE OF COWKEEPERS OR DAIRYMEN. 

PART I. 

The regulations in this Part shall apply to cowsheds, the cows 
from which are habitually grazed on grass land during the greater 

1 An additional regulation, not included in the model, but one which has 
been adopted in many places with advantage, is to the effect that ''Every 
purveyor of milk or person selling milk by retail shall cause every vessel con- 
taining milk for sale to be kept properly covered, or to be otherwise sufficiently 
protected from contamination by dust or flies." 

2 "Mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of the borough of , acting 
by the Council" or "Urban (or Rural) District Council of ," as the 
case may be. 

;J "Borough" or "Urban (or Rural) District of ," as the case- 

may be. 



LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 305 

part of the year, and when not so grazed, are habitually turned out 
during a portion of each day. 

Lighting. 

3. Every cowkeeper shall provide that every cowshed in his 
occupation shall be sufficiently lighted with windows, whether in 
the sides or roof thereof. 

Ventilation. 

4. Every cowkeeper shall cause every cowshed in his occupation 
to be sufficiently ventilated, and for this purpose to be provided 
with a sufficient number of openings into the external air to keep 
the air in the cowshed in a wholesome condition. 



5. (1) Every cowkeeper shall cause every part of the interior 
of every cowshed in his occupation to be thoroughly cleansed from 
time to time as often as may be necessary to secure that such 
cowshed shall be at all times reasonably clean and sweet. 

(2) Such persons shall cause the ceiling or interior of the roof, 
and the walls of every cowshed in his occupation, to be properly 
limewashed twice at least in every year, that is to say, once during 
the month of May and once during the month of October, and at 
such other times as may be necessary. 

Provided that this requirement shall not apply to any part of 
such ceiling, roof, or walls that may be properly painted, or var- 
nished, or constructed of or covered with any material such as to 
render the limewashing unsuitable or inexpedient, and that may be 
otherwise properly cleansed. 

(3) He shall cause the floor of every such cowshed to be 
thoroughly swept, and all dung and other offensive matter to be 
removed from such cowshed as often as may be necessary, and not 
less than once in every day. 

Drainage. 

6. (1) Every cowkeeper shall cause the drainage of every 
cowshed in his occupation to be so arranged that all liquid matter 
which may fall or be cast upon the floor may be conveyed by a 
suitable open channel to a drain inlet situate in the open air at 
a proper distance from any door or window of such cowshed, or to 
some other suitable place of disposal which is so situate. 

(2) He shall not cause or suffer any inlet to any drain of such 
cowshed to be within such cowshed. 

Water Supply. 

7. (1) Every cowkeeper shall keep in, or in connection with, 
every cowshed in his occupation a supply of water suitable and 

X 



306 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

sufficient for all such purposes as may from time to time be 
reasonably necessary. 

(2) He shall cause any receptacle which may be provided for 
such water to be emptied and thoroughly cleansed from time to 
time as often as may be necessary to prevent the pollution of any 
water that may be stored therein, and where such receptacle is 
used for the storage only of water he shall cause it to be properly 
covered and ventilated, and so placed as to be at all times readily 
accessible. 

PART II. 

The regulations in Part I., and also the following regulation, 
shall apply to all cowsheds other than those the cows from which 
are habitually grazed on grass land during the greater part of the 
year, and, when not so grazed, are habitually turned out during a 
portion of each day. 

8. A cowkeeper shall not cause or allow any cowshed in his 
occupation to be occupied by a larger number of cows than will 
leave not less than eight hundred feet of air-space for each cow. 

Provided as follows : 

(a) In calculating the air-space for the purposes of this 

regulation, no space shall be reckoned which is more 
than sixteen feet above the floor ; but if the roof or 
ceiling is inclined, then the mean height of the same 
above the floor may be taken as the height thereof for 
the purposes of this regulation. 

(b) This regulation shall not apply to any cowshed con- 

structed and used before the date of these regulations 
coming into effect, until two years after that date. 

PART III. 

9. In this part, the expression " Dairy " means a dairy in which 
cattle are not kept. 

Lighting. 

10. Every cowkeeper shall provide that every dairy in his 
occupation shall be sufficiently lighted with windows, whether in 
the sides or roof thereof. 

Ventilation. 

11. Every cowkeeper shall cause every dairy in his occupation 
to be sufficiently ventilated, and for this purpose to be provided 
with a sufficient number of openings into the external air to keep 
the air in the dairy in a wholesome condition. 

Cleansing. 

12. (1) Every cowkeeper shall cause every part of the interior 
of every dairy in his occupation to be thoroughly cleansed from 



xvn LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 307 

time to time as often as may be necessary to secure that such dairy 
shall be at all times reasonably clean and sweet. 

(2) He shall cause the floor of every such dairy to be thoroughly 
cleansed with water at least once in every day. 

Drainage. 

13. (1) Every cowkeeper shall cause the drainage of every 
dairy in his occupation to be so arranged that all liquid matter 
which may fall or be cast upon the floor may be conveyed by 
a suitable open channel to the outside of such dairy, and may 
there be received in a suitable gulley communicating with a proper 
and sufficient drain. 

(2) He shall not cause or suffer any inlet to any drain of such 
dairy to be within such dairy. 

Water Supply. 

14. (1) Every cowkeeper shall cause every dairy in his 
occupation to be provided with an adequate supply of good and 
wholesome water for the cleansing of such dairy and of any vessels 
that may be used therein for containing milk, and for all other 
reasonable and necessary purposes in connection with the use 
thereof. 

(2) He shall cause every cistern or other receptacle in which 
any such water may be stored to be properly covered and ventilated, 
and so placed as to be at all times readily accessible. 

(3) He shall cause every such cistern or receptacle to be emptied 
and thoroughly cleansed from time to time as often as may be 
necessary to prevent the pollution of any water that may be stored 
therein. 

FOR SECURING THE CLEANLINESS OF MlLK-STORES, MlLK-SHOPS, 
AND .OF MILK- VESSELS USED FOR CONTAINING MILK FOR 
SALE BY PERSONS FOLLOWING THE TRADE OF COWKEEPERS 
OR DAIRYMEN. 

Cleanliness of Milk-Stores and Milk-Shops. 

15. Every cowkeeper who is the occupier of a milk-store or 
milk-shop shall cause every part of the interior of such milk-store 
or milk-shop to be thoroughly cleansed from time to time as often 
as may be necessary to maintain such milk-store or milk-shop in a 
thorough state of cleanliness. 

Cleanliness of Milk-Vessels. 

16. (1) Every cowkeeper shall from time to time, as often as 
may be necessary, cause every milk-vessel that may be used by him 
for containing milk for sale to be thoroughly cleansed with steam 



308 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

or clean boiling water, and shall otherwise take all proper pre- 
cautions for the maintenance of such milk-vessel in a constant state 
of cleanliness. 

(2) He shall, on every occasion when any such vessel shall 
have been used to contain milfc, or shall have been returned to him 
after having been out of his possession, cause such vessel to be 
forthwith so cleansed. 



FOR PRESCRIBING PRECAUTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY PURVEYORS OF 
MILK AND PERSONS SELLING MILK BY RETAIL AGAINST 
INFECTION OR CONTAMINATION. 

17. (1) Every purveyor of milk or person selling milk by 
retail shall take all reasonable and proper precautions in, and in 
connection with, the storage and distribution of the milk, and 
otherwise, to prevent the exposure of the milk to any infection or 
contamination. 

(2) He shall not deposit or keep any milk intended for sale 
(a) In any room or place where it would be liable to become 

infected or contaminated by impure air, or by any 
offensive, noxious, or deleterious gas or substance, or 
by any noxious or injurious emanation, exhalation, or 
effluvium ; or 

(ft) In any room used as a kitchen or as a living room ; or 
(c) In any room or building, or part of a building communi- 
cating directly by door, window, or otherwise with any 
room used as a sleeping room, or in which there may be 
any person suffering from any infectious or contagious 
disease, or which may have been used by any person 
suffering from any such disease and may not have been 
properly disinfected ; or 

((/) In any room or building, or part of a building in which 
there may be any direct inlet to any drain. 

(3) He shall not keep milk for sale, or cause or suffer any such 
milk to be placed, in any vessel, receptacle, or utensil which is not 
thoroughly clean. 

(4) He shall cause every vessel, receptacle, or utensil used by 
him for containing milk for sale to be thoroughly cleansed with 
steam or clean boiling water after it shall have been used, and to 
be maintained in a constant state of cleanliness. 

(5) He shall not cause or suffer any cow belonging to him 
or under his care or control to be milked for the purpose of 
obtaining milk for sale 

(a) Unless, at the time of milking, the udder and teats of such 
cow are thoroughly clean ; and 



LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 309 

(6) Unless the hands of the person milking such cow, also, 
are thoroughly clean and free from all infection and 
contamination. 

PENALTIES 

18. Every person who shall offend against any of the foregoing 
regulations shall be liable for every such offence to a penalty of 
jive pounds, and in the case of a continuing offence to a further 
penalty of forty shillings for each day after written notice of the 
offence from the Council. 

Provided, nevertheless, that the justices, or court before whom 
any complaint may be made or any proceedings may be taken in 
respect of any such offence may, if they think fit, adjudge the pay- 
ment as a penalty of any sum less than the full amount of the 
penalty imposed by this regulation. 

COMMENCEMENT OF THE EEGULATioNS 1 

19. These regulations shall come into force on and after the 

day of 19 

REVOCATION OF REGULATIONS- 

20. From and after the date on which these regulations shall 
come into force, all regulations heretofore made under, or having 
effect in pursuance of the Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops Order 
of 1885, shall, so far as the same are now in force in the district, 
be revoked. 

Certain sections in the Public Health Act, 1875, apply to 
milk in common with other foods, and have occasionally been 
useful in relation to milk. These powers are comprised 
within the following four sections : 

Section 116. Unsound Meat, etc. Any medical officer of health 
or inspector of nuisances may. at all reasonable times inspect and 
examine any animal, carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, 
vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk exposed for sale, or deposited 
in any place for the purpose of sale, or of preparation for sale, and 
intended for the food of man, the proof that the same was not 
exposed or deposited for any such purpose, or was not intended for 
the food of man, resting with the party charged ; and if any such 

1 The date to be inserted in this clause should be one which will admit of 
compliance with the requirements of Article 14 (2) of the Dairies, Cowsheds, 
and Milkshops Order of 1885. 

2 If this clause is not included in the series submitted to the Local Govern- 
ment Board for approval, it should be stated whether or not there are any 
regulations in force upon the subject. 



310 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

animal, carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, 
corn, bread, flour, or milk appears to such medical officer or inspector 
to be diseased, or unsound, or unwholesome, or unfit for the food of 
man, he may seize and carry away the same himself or by an assist- 
ant, in order to have the same dealt with by a justice. 

Section 117 deals with the condemnation of the same by the 
justice, on order for destruction ; and provides for penalties. 

Section 118 provides for penalties for hindering the officer from 
inspecting the meat, milk, etc. 

Section 1 1 9 provides for a search warrant being granted by a 
justice, on complaint made on oath by an officer of the local authority 
that he has reason to believe that there is kept or concealed any 
animal, carcase, milk, etc., which is intended for sale for the food of 
man, and is diseased, unsound, or unwholesome. 

The powers and scope of Section 116 are extended by 
Section 28 of the Public Health Acts Amendment Act, 1890 : 

Section 28. (1) Sections 116 to 119 of the Public Health Act, 
1875, (relating to unsound meat) shall extend and apply to all 
articles intended for the food of man, sold or exposed for sale, or 
deposited in any place for the purpose of sale, or of preparation for 
sale, within the district of any local authority. 

(2) A justice may condemn any such article, and order it to 
be destroyed or disposed of, as mentioned in Section 117 of the 
Public Health Act, 1875, if satisfied on complaint being made to 
him that such article is diseased, unsound, unwholesome, or unfit 
for the food of man, although the same has not been seized, as 
mentioned in Section 1 1 6 of the said Act. 

This section has to be adopted like the rest of the Act. 

These sections are of but little use in connection with milk, 
since milk must be in an excessively bad condition to be 
visibly unsound, or unwholesome, or unfit for the food of man. 
A few convictions, however, have been obtained under it, or 
under the analogous clauses of the Public Health Act, 1891 
(London). One such case may be mentioned as an example. 
At Marylebone Police Court, on February 21, 1909, Alfred 
Massingham, dairyman, was fined 10 for having in his 
possession, or deposited on his premises, for the purposes of 
sale, four quarts of milk which was unwholesome and unfit 
for food. A sanitary inspector who visited the defendant's 
premises, saw there a pail containing dirty milk, seized it, and 
sent samples to a bacteriologist, who reported that the milk 
contained a large number of pus cells, vegetable tissue cells, 



LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 311 

faecal matter, thorns, and hair, and a quantity of organisms. 
The milk was exceedingly filthy and totally unfit for human con- 
sumption. The defendant had said he would have strained the 
milk before selling it, but the bacteriologist said that straining 
would not remove the bacteria. The effect on infants and 
invalids of using such milk would be to cause diarrhoea. 

The nuisance sections (Sections 91 to 94) of the Public 
Health Act, 1875, are sometimes of value in dealing with 
cowsheds. Cowsheds and dairies can sometimes be dealt with 
as " premises in such a state as to be a nuisance or injurious 
to health," while two of the other sub-clauses, " any animal 
so kept as to be a nuisance or injurious to health," "any 
accumulation or deposit which is a nuisance or injurious to 
health," may occasionally be successfully invoked. The use of 
this Act has the important advantage that, by its use (Section 
94), the landlord may be made responsible for the main 
structural alterations. 

The Infectious Diseases Prevention Act, 1890, Section 4, 
gives additional powers in relation to milk. It must be re- 
membered that this Act is an adoptive Act. Section 4 reads 
as follows : 

In case the medical officer of health is in possession of 
evidence that any person in the district is suffering from infectious 
disease, attributable to milk supplied within the district from any 
dairy situate within or without the district, or that the consumption 
of milk from such dairy is likely to cause infectious disease to any 
person residing in the district, such medical officer shall, if author- 
ised in that behalf by an order of a justice having jurisdiction in 
the place where such dairy is situate, have power to inspect such 
dairy, and if accompanied by a veterinary inspector or some other 
properly qualified veterinary surgeon to inspect the animals therein, 
and if on such inspection the medical officer of health shall be of 
opinion that infectious disease is caused from consumption of the 
milk supplied therefrom, he shall report thereon to the local 
authority, and his report shall be accompanied by any report 
furnished to him by the said veterinary inspector or veterinary 
surgeon, and the local authority may thereupon give notice to the 
dairyman to appear before them within such time, not less than 
twenty-four hours, as may be specified in the notice, to show cause 
why an order should not be made requiring him not to supply any 
milk therefrom within the district until such order has been with- 
drawn by the local authority, and if, in the opinion of the local 



3i2 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

authority, he fails to show such cause, then the local authority may 
make such order as aforesaid ; and the local authority shall forth- 
with give notice of the facts to the sanitary authority and county 
council (if any) of the district or county in which such dairy is 
situate, and also to the Local Government Board. An order made 
by a local authority, in pursuance of this section, shall be forthwith 
withdrawn on the local authority, or the medical officer of health 
on its behalf, being satisfied that the milk supply has been changed, 
or that the cause of the infection has been removed. Any person 
refusing to permit the medical officer of health, on the production 
of such order as aforesaid, to inspect any dairy, or if so accom- 
panied as aforesaid, to inspect the animals kept there, or after any 
such order not to supply milk as aforesaid has been given, supply- 
ing any milk within the district in contravention of such order, or 
selling it for consumption therein, shall be deemed guilty of an 
offence against this Act. Provided always, that proceedings in 
respect of such offence shall be taken before the justices of the 
peace having jurisdiction in the place where the said dairy is situate. 
Provided also, that no dairyman shall be liable to an action for 
breach of contract, if the breach be due to an order from the local 
authority under this Act. 

" Dairy " shall include any farm, farmhouse, cowshed, milk-store, 
milk-shop, or other place from which milk is supplied, or in which 
milk is kept for purposes of sale ; " dairyman " shall include any 
cowkeeper, purveyor of milk, or occupier of a dairy. 

Certain sections of another adoptive Act, The Public 
Health Acts Amendment Act, 1907, also deal with milk. 
These sections are as follows : 

Section 52. (1) If any person knows that he is suffering from 
an infectious disease, he shall not engage in any occupation or 
carry on any trade or business unless he can do so without risk of 
spreading the infectious disease. 

(2) If any person acts in contravention of this section, he shall 
be liable in respect of each offence to a penalty not exceeding forty 
shillings. 

Section 53. (1) If the medical officer certifies to the local 
authority that any person in the district is suffering from infectious 
disease, which the medical officer has reason to suspect is attribut- 
able to milk supplied within the district, the local authority may 
require the dairyman supplying the milk to furnish to the medical 
officer within a reasonable time fixed by them a complete list of all 
the farms, dairies, or places from which his supply of milk is derived, 
or has been derived during the last six weeks, and if the supply, 
or any part of it, is obtained through any other dairyman, may 
make a similar requisition upon that dairyman. 



LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 313 

(2) The local authority shall pay to the dairyman for every list 
furnished by him, under this section, the sum of sixpence, and, if 
the list contains not less than twenty-five names, a further sum of 
sixpence for every twenty-five names contained in the list. 

(3) Every dairyman shall comply with the requisition of the 
local authority under this section, and if he fails to do so, shall be 
liable in respect of each offence to a penalty not exceeding five 
pounds, and a daily penalty not exceeding forty shillings. 

Section 54. (1) Every dairyman supplying milk within the 
district of the local authority from premises whether within or 
beyond the district aforesaid, shall notify to the medical officer all 
cases of infectious disease among persons engaged in or in connec- 
tion with his dairy as soon as he becomes aware, or has reason to 
suspect, that such infectious disease exists. 

(2) Any dairyman who shall fail to comply with this section 
shall, for every such offence, be liable to a penalty not exceeding 
forty shillings. 

These sections will not be operative in the district of 
any local authority until they have been applied to such 
district by an Order of the Local Government Board. The 
expression " infectious disease " means any infectious disease 
to which the Infectious Disease (Notification) Act, 1889, for 
the time being applies within the district of the local 
authority. 

The purity of milk, from the chemical point of view, is 
protected by the various Sale of Food and Drugs Acts. 



THE SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 1875 

The sections which include milk within their scope are 
the following : 

Section 3. Forbids under a penalty that any person shall mix, 
colour, stain, or powder any article of food with any ingredient or 
material so as to render the article injurious to health, with intent 
that the same may be sold in that state. A penalty also attaches 
to the sale of such doctored food. 

Section 5. Provides that no person shall be liable to conviction 
under the above section if he can present proof of absence of 
knowledge of the mixing, colouring, etc. 

Section 6. " No person shall sell to the prejudice of the pur- 
chaser any article of food or any drug which is not of the nature, 
substance, and quality of the article demanded by such purchaser 
under a penalty not exceeding 20." No offence is deemed to be 



3H MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

committed under this section under certain contingencies which 
hardly affect milk. 

Section 8. " Provided that no person shall be guilty of any such 
offence as aforesaid in respect of the sale of an article of food or a 
drug mixed with any matter or ingredient not injurious to health, 
and not intended fraudulently to increase its bulk, weight, or 
measure, or conceal its inferior quality, if at the time of delivering 
such article or drug he shall supply to the person receiving the 
same a notice by a label distinctly and legibly written or printed on 
or with the article or drug to the effect that the same is mixed." 

Section 9. "No person shall, with the intent that the same may 
be sold in its altered state without notice, abstract from an article 
of food any part of it so as to affect injuriously its quality, substance, 
or nature, and no person shall sell any article so altered without 
making disclosure of the alteration, under a penalty in each case 
not exceeding 20." 



THE SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT AMENDMENT 

ACT, 1879 

Section 3. Provides that any medical officer of health, inspector 
of nuisances, inspector of weights and measures, any market in- 
spector or police constable, may procure at the place of delivery a 
sample of milk in course of delivery to submit to analysis. 

Section 4. Enacts a penalty of 10 for refusal to allow such 
milk to be taken. 



THE SALE OF FOOD AND DKUC4S ACT, 1899 

Section 1. Makes it an offence to import into the United 
Kingdom " condensed, separated, or skimmed milk, except in tins or 
other receptacles which bear a label whereon the words ' Machine- 
skimmed Milk ' or ' Skimmed Milk,' as the case may require, are 
printed in large and legible type." 

Section 2. Provides for the sampling of any article of food by 
an officer of the Local Government Board or Board of Agriculture 
for the purpose of analysis. 

Section 3. Makes it the duty of every local authority entrusted 
with the execution of the laws relating to the sale of food and 
drugs to put in force these powers so as to provide proper securities 
for the sale of food and drugs in a pure and genuine condition. 
The Local Government Board or Board of Agriculture can act in 
default. 

Section 4. Gives the Board of Agriculture power to make 
regulations for determining what deficiency in any of the normal 
constituents of genuine milk, cream, butter, or cheese, or what 



LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 315 

addition of extraneous matter or proportion of water, in any sample 
of milk (including condensed milk), cream, butter, or cheese shall, 
for the purposes of the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, raise a pre- 
sumption, until the contrary is proved, that the milk, cream, butter, 
or cheese is not genuine or is injurious to health. 

Section 9. Requires that any milk vendor who sells milk or 
cream from a vehicle or from a can or other receptacle must have 
his name and address conspicuously inscribed on the vehicle or 
receptacle. 

Section 10. When milk is sampled in course of delivery a portion 
must be sent to the consignor if his name and address appear on 
the case or package. 

Section 11. "Every tin or other receptacle containing condensed, 
separated, or skimmed milk must bear a label clearly visible to 
the purchaser on which the words * Machine -skimmed Milk,' or 
* Skimmed Milk,' as the case may require, are printed in large and 
legible type." A penalty is imposed for contravention. 

Section 17. Extends the penalty for contravention of the Sale 
of Food and Drugs Acts for second and subsequent offences. 

Under Section 4 of this Act the Board of Agriculture 
made iu 1901 certain regulations, known as the Sale of Milk 
Regulations, 1901. They include the following: 

Where a sample of milk (not being milk sold as skimmed, or 
separated, or condensed milk) contains less than 3 per cent of milk- 
fat, it shall be presumed, for the purposes of the Sale of Food and 
Drugs Acts, 1875 to 1899, until the contrary is proved, that the 
milk is not genuine, by reason of the abstraction therefrom of 
milk-fat, or the addition thereto of water. 

Where a sample of milk (not being milk sold as skimmed, or 
separated, or condensed milk) contains less than 8 '5 per cent of 
milk solids other than milk-fat, it shall be presumed, for the pur- 
poses of the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, 1875 to 1899, until the 
contrary is proved, that the milk is not genuine, by reason of the 
abstraction therefrom of milk solids other than milk -fat, or the 
addition thereto of water. 

Where sample of skimmed or separated milk (not being con- 
densed milk) contains less than 9 per cent of milk-solids it shall be 
presumed, for the purposes of the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, 
1875 to 1899, until the contrary is proved, that the milk is not 
genuine by reason of the abstraction therefrom of milk-solids other 
than milk-fat, or the addition thereto of water. 

These sections almost entirely refer to milk as a chemical 
food, or as a food to which chemicals may be added. It has 
been suggested that they may be legally interpreted to deal 



316 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

with tubercle bacilli in milk, but they were clearly not framed 
to include this definition, and it seems scarcely justifiable to 
extend their original meaning to make them apply. 

The following recent Act gives powers for dealing with 
imported milk : 

THE PUBLIC HEALTH (REGULATIONS AS TO FOOD) 
ACT, 1907 

1. (1) The power of making regulations under the Public 
Health Act, 1896, and the enactments mentioned in that Act, shall 
include the power of making regulations authorising measures to be 
taken for the prevention of danger arising to public health from 
the importation, preparation, storage, and distribution of articles of 
food or drink (other than drugs or water) intended for sale for 
human consumption, and, without prejudice to the generality of 
the powers so conferred, the regulations may 

(<() Provide for the examination and taking of samples of any 

such articles ; 

(/;) Apply, as respects any matters to be dealt with by the 
regulations, any provision in any Act of Parliament deal- 
ing with the like matters, with the necessary modifications 
and adaptations ; 

(c) Provide for the recovery of any charges authorised to be 
made by the regulations for the purposes of the regula- 
tions or any services performed thereunder. 

(2) For the purposes of regulations made under this Act, 
articles commonly used for the food or drink of man shall be 
deemed to be intended for sale for human consumption unless the 
contrary is proved. 

(3) In the application of this Act to Scotland, Part IV. of the 
Public Health (Scotland) Act, 1897, shall be substituted for the 
Public, Health Act, 1896. 

The legal enactments dealing with milk show the influence 
of the progressive growth of epidemiological knowledge. The 
earliest legislation classified milk with bread and meat, 
apparently recognising no special dangers as appertaining to 
milk, dealing with it as a food which, like other foods, 
might be, on inspection, unsound or unwholesome. The Sale 
of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, passed about the same time, 
also recognised the necessity of protecting food from chemical 
sophistication, but here again milk was not specifically differ- 
entiated from other foods. The Amending Act of 1879 



xvii LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 317 

specifically mentions milk, while in the 1899 Act the peculiar 
needs of milk as regards standards of chemical composition 
are clearly outlined and given definite expression in the Milk 
Eegulations of 1901. 

The fact that milk is a special food, with peculiar liabilities 
to contamination, and needing special regulations for its pro- 
tection and preservation in a state of purity, is legislatively 
conceded by the issue of the Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops 
Order of 1885. Article 9 of this Order clearly admits the 
conception that milk may be a vehicle for spreading infectious 
diseases, a view which receives further legislative endorsement 
by the Order of 1899, by Section 4 of the Prevention Act, 
1890, and by the sections quoted above from the Public 
Health Acts Amendment Act, 1907. 

It will be seen that, broadly speaking, the laws affecting 
milk are framed with three objects : 

(1) To regulate the quality of milk as a food and its 

chemical content. 

(2) To preserve the purity of milk as a food. 

(3) To prevent milk acting as a vehicle for the spread of 

disease, particularly infectious disease. 

The introduction of the Milk and Dairies Bill, 1909, of 
Mr. John Burns is an admission that the present laws are 
inadequate to effect these three objects. 

The relationship between milk and infectious disease is 
one of growing legal importance. From this point of view 
the case of Frost v. The Aylesbury Dairy Company is one 
of great significance ; the facts are therefore briefly appended. 

Frost v. The Aylesbury Dairy Company. This case was 
ultimately decided by the Court of Appeal. The Aylesbury 
Dairy Company supplied the plaintiff, Mr. Eaiph Frost, with 
milk during the summer of 1903. According to the plaintiff 
the milk in question was infected with the germs of typhoid 
fever, with the result that the plaintiff's wife contracted 
typhoid fever and died from it. It was ascertained that a 
son of the woman who kept the utensils clean at the farm 
from which the milk came had a severe attack of typhoid 
fever and died. Twenty-three cases of this disease occurred 
in Ealing, where the milk from this farm was supplied. The 
scientific evidence was not completely conclusive that the 



3 i 8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

infection was due to the milk, but the legal finding was that 
it did so, and judgment was based upon that assumption. 
The jury in the first trial found a verdict for the plaintiff for 
106. The Court of Appeal dismissed the application for 
judgment or a new trial. It was not found that there had 
been any negligence. The decision turned entirely on the 
question as to whether or not the Company had warranted 
the milk as being fit for food. C. E. Allan l (barrister-at- 
law), discussing the case, remarks : " There was no express 
warranty, but the Court held that there was an implied one. 
When a person warrants an article to be fit for any particular 
purpose he thereby renders himself liable for all damages that 
may be caused if the article turns out to be unfit for that 
purpose." In this case the Company, by their writings supplied 
to the plaintiff, gave full particulars dealing with the pre- 
cautions taken by them and as to their knowledge and skill. 
The Master of the Eolls said : " The buyer could not escape 
being permeated with the sense that he was secured against 
the possibility of danger if he bought the defendants' milk." 
This was the implied warranty, and showed that the buyer 
relied on the sellers' skill or judgment. The Master of the 
Eolls then dealt with the contention " that the buyer could 
not rely upon the sellers' skill or judgment in a case where no 
skill or judgment could have found out the defect. That was 
a contention that a person could not become liable for an un- 
discoverable latent defect." That was decided by the Court 
of Appeal in Randall \. Newson, where it was held that on the 
sale of an article for a specific purpose there was a warranty 
by the vendor that it was reasonably fit for the purpose, and 
that there was 110 exception as to latent undiscoverable 
defects. 

This case is one of the first, if not the first, in which <i 
person or company has been found liable for damages for 
communicating a disease to another through food. One result 
will be that the giving of such implied warranties will be 
largely avoided in the future. 

Since this case there have been others dealing with the 
liability of milk-sellers in relation to infectious disease. The 
following is of interest : In the Civil Court of the Liverpool 

1 Public Health, 1905, xvii. p. 415. 



LEGAL POWERS IN ENGLAND 319 

Assizes, held November 1909, the proprietor of the Woodlands 
School, near Conway, obtained, under the Sale of Goods Act, 
1893, 500 in damages against a dairyman for supplying 
milk which, it was alleged, had caused an outbreak of 
typhoid fever in the school. The evidence adduced as to the 
cause of the school outbreak was conflicting, but the facts 
in favour of milk causation were very cogent, and after a 
four days' hearing the jury awarded the above damages. An 
important practical point raised by the jury was whether, 
assuming the farmer to have taken all possible precautions, 
would this fact affect the question of liability, a question 
which Mr. Justice Bray answered emphatically in the negative. 
The question of the prohibition of preservatives in milk 
is one of great importance. The necessary legal powers are 
contained in Sections 3 and 6 of the Sale of Food and 
Drugs Act, 1875, and a very large number of successful pro- 
secutions have been instituted under one or other of these 
sections. The likelihood of a successful prosecution has been 
increased by the issue by the Local Government Board of a 
Circular to Local Authorities, dated July 1906, upon pre- 
servatives in milk. The circular states : 

In some districts action under the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts 
has been frequently and successfully taken in order to bring about 
the disuse of preservatives in milk. Proceedings instituted against 
vendors of milk containing preservatives have usually been taken 
under Section 6 of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875. Con- 
viction has followed, it being held that when the purchaser who 
asks for milk is supplied with milk plus a preservative he does not 
receive an article of the nature, substance, and quality demanded, 
and is prejudiced thereby. 

The Board are of opinion that action under the Sale of Food 
and Drugs Acts in regard to preservatives in milk is desirable, and 
that this subject deserves attention from all authorities in England 
and Wales charged with the execution of these Acts. 

The Board would suggest that the Council should notify to 
milk traders, by circular or otherwise, that action will be taken 
under the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts in instances where pre- 
servatives are reported in milk. Subject to this being done, and 
to exceptional cases .... the Board consider that when the 
presence of any added preservative is reported in a sample of milk 
taken in accordance with the provisions of the Sale of Food and 
Drugs Acts, the case should in ordinary circumstances be regarded 
as one for the institution of proceedings under those Acts. 



320 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . xvn 

The circular also deals with cases in which the presence 
of preservatives is declared with the object of escaping liability 
under Section 6 of the Act : 

Where preservatives are reported in milk thus sold, the question 
will arise whether, in view of the nature and quantity of the pre- 
servatives added, it can be considered that the article has been 
rendered injurious to health, or that the purchaser has been pre- 
judiced to an extent which would justify the institution of proceed- 
ings under Section 3 or Section 6 of Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 
1875, notwithstanding the declaration made at the time of purchase. 

This question is not without difficulty in view of the general 
objection to the employment of any preservatives in milk. 

As regards formalin and boron preservatives, however, the 
Board are advised that the presence in ,milk of formalin to an 
amount which is ascertained by examination within three days of 
collecting the sample to exceed 1 part in 40,000 (1 part in 100,000 
of formic aldehyde) raises a strong presumption that the article has 
been rendered injurious to health, and that the purchaser has been 
prejudiced in the above sense ; and also that similar presumption 
is raised when boron preservatives are present in milk to an amount 
exceeding 57 parts of boric acid per 100,000, or 40 grains of boric 
acid per gallon. 

It appears desirable that the addition of preservatives to skim 
milk, separated milk, and condensed milk, should be watched and 
controlled on similar lines. 



CHAPTEE XVIII 

THE PREVENTION OF HUMAN TUBERCULOSIS OF BOVINE ORIGIN 

IN Chapter VII. facts and conclusions were set out which make 
it evident that a considerable amount of human tuberculosis 
is of bovine origin. While man is the main source of human 
infection, the proportion due to infection from material of 
bovine origin is sufficiently large to make it very important 
that proper steps should be taken to prevent this source of 
human disease. It must be conceded that, while infected 
meat cannot be altogether excluded as a source of human 
tuberculosis, in nearly all the cases of human infection from 
bovine sources the vehicle is milk or milk products. 

The problem of the prevention of human tuberculosis of 
bovine origin involves two quite separate considerations : 

I. The control and elimination of bovine tuberculosis. 

II. The prevention of human infection from material 
containing bovine tubercle bacilli. 

I. THE CONTROL OF BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS 

The control of bovine tuberculosis is urgently required in 
the interest of agriculture, and quite apart from its relation- 
ship to human disease. The loss to the agricultural com- 
munity from this disease is enormous. Since the danger of 
human disease from tuberculous cows can never be removed 
unless bovine tuberculosis is scientifically attacked some 
consideration of methods of control for this disease is necessary. 
The eradication of this disease amongst cows and oxen is 
admittedly an extremely difficult task, owing to the insidious 
nature of the disease and its extremely wide prevalence. The 
suggestion that all the cattle in the country should be tested with 

321 Y 



322 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

tuberculin, and all found tuberculous killed and compensation 
paid, is wholly impracticable since the amount of compensation 
required would be enormous, while no surety that the disease 
was extirpated could be arrived at, unless the animals surviving 
were all re-tested with tuberculin, and all imported animals 
regularly tested and re- tested. Apart from this the killing 
of about 25 per cent of all the milch cows in the country 
would cause a milk famine. All responsible veterinary authori- 
ties are united in advocating that measures for dealing with 
this disease must be on selective and preventive lines, 
operating somewhat slowly. 

Of the methods for the eradication of this disease that of 
Bang of Denmark has been the most widely practised. 

Bangs Method. The principle of the method is the 
separation of the healthy from the diseased animals, and the 
rearing of a healthy non-infected stock. The procedure 
adopted is very clearly described in the Eeport l of the Bir- 
mingham Committee which visited Denmark in 1908 to study 
this method. The following description is largely taken from 
this report. 

Tuberculin is used as the diagnostic agent, and is 
recognised as reliable for this purpose if the uncertain 
reactors are separated from the healthy stock until a subse- 
quent test shows them to be tuberculous or decidedly free, 
and this second test is not deferred too long. All cows suffer- 
ing from udder tuberculosis and " wasters " are slaughtered. 
The herd is then divided into a " free portion " and an " infected 
portion." Bang recommends the removal of one of these to 
another farm, or failing this, to another shed as far apart from 
the original premises as possible. Where neither of these is 
available, he, as a last resource, advises the separation of the 
diseased from the healthy by a brick or a wooden partition 
in the cowshed, unprovided with doorway or other opening, 
and the restriction of each group to a separate end of the 
shed. At first separation by partition in this way was 
deemed sufficient, but the risks of communication from time 
to time during the year are so great that wherever buildings 
some distance apart are procurable their use is advised. 
Similarly in summer, separate fields are prescribed, but on 

1 Special Report to Birmingham Health Committee, 1908. 



xvm PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 323 

small farms their provision may not be possible. In such 
cases the diseased are restricted to one end of the field, and 
the healthy to the other. The only safe way, however, is the 
complete separation of diseased from healthy, both in the 
house and at grass. The premises must be systematically 
and thoroughly disinfected. 

The next step is the rearing up of herds free from 
tuberculosis. Bang has shown that the calves of tuber- 
culous mothers (except in very rare cases) .are born free 
from tuberculosis, and will remain so if protected from 
infection. The calves are removed at birth from their 
infected mothers to a place free from infection, and care is 
taken that no infection subsequently gains access to them. 
The calves are fed on milk heated to 80 C. (sufficient to kill 
tubercle bacilli). In practice it is desirable to avoid rearing 
the calves of cows with very advanced tuberculosis, as it is in 
these that the few cases of iiitra-uterine infection are found. 
To guard against mistakes and accidents the calves, like the 
other stock, are tested with tuberculin. Subsequently the 
whole stock is submitted to testing with tuberculin every 
half-year, any reactors being at once removed. In Denmark 
the veterinary services and tuberculin are supplied gratuitously, 
the chief expense being the cost of the separate accommodation 
required. 

Bang l lays great stress upon the killing of cows suffering 
from tuberculosis of the udder. He says that Danish farmers 
readily co-operate, and that more than 2500 samples of milk 
from cows suspected to be suffering from udder tuberculosis are 
sent in yearly to his laboratory to be examined. Tubercle bacilli 
are found in about 3 per cent of the cases. About 700 such 
cows are killed every year, and the compensation paid for them 
generally amounts to 50,000 kr. yearly (about 2600). The 
Danish law requires that cows suffering from tuberculosis 
of the udder shall be killed under proper supervision. " The 
owner shall be entitled to a compensation for the animal 
amounting to one-third of the market value of the carcase, 
calculated at the current price." Further compensation is 
also paid, equal to half its value, for such parts of the animals 
as are declared unfit for food. See Appendix, p. 431. 

1 Sixth International Congress on Tuberculosis, 1908, vol. iv. part ii. p. 850. 



3 2 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Bang's method has certain marked advantages. It is 
efficient and by its means a tuberculosis-free herd can be 
reared. The initial expenses are not great, and the current 
expenses caused by the separation of the herds are so spread 
as not to be a financial burden. It does not cause any 
disturbance of the milk trade or of agricultural interests. In 
other words it is conservative, efficient, and cheap when 
properly and completely carried out. The essential difficulty 
and disadvantage of the method is that to properly and 
completely carry it out requires extra labour and great 
vigilance, such as many farmers are either unable or unwilling 
to practise. Any relaxation of precautions may undo the 
work of years and re-iritroduce the disease amongst the healthy 
stock. Such re-infections are very disheartening, and their 
occurrence being attributed to the method and not to the 
true cause the lack of persistent care on the part of the 
farmer tends to bring the method into disrepute in the 
neighbourhood in which the farm is situated. Pearson 
remarks l concerning the use of this method in Penn- 
sylvania, U.S.A. : 

It is important to note that the Bang system has never been 
widely used outside of Denmark, and its use is diminishing rather 
than growing in that country. That is not because it is not 
effective it is effective but because it involves extra labour, 
watchfulness, care, and expense for such a long time that only a 
few herd owners have the courage and perseverance to carry it out. 
It is unfortunate that this is so, for this system furnishes a method 
to gradually eradicate tuberculosis at a minimum of loss. It is 
conservative to the last degree. Those who have carried it out 
correctly have had good results. But we have to take the facts as 
they are, and to recognise that the Bang system in its entirety is 
not likely to be used extensively in this country. 

Bang finds that excellent results have been obtained on 
the small farms in Denmark although it would seem especially 
difficult for them. Bang (loc. cit.) describes a Danish associa- 
tion which is worthy of imitation in this country. Its 
members are small farmers and the object of the association is 
for " promoting the breeding and maintenance of healthy, 
non-tuberculous stocks of cattle and pigs." Only such farmers 

1 Quoted by Dr. Eastwood, Report on American Methods of Milk Control, 
p. 9. 



xvm PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 325 

are allowed to join as have had their stock subjected to the 
tuberculin test, and, in case of its proving only partially 
healthy, have suitably isolated the healthy animals from the 
diseased ones. No increase of the herd by animals of other 
stock (except calves under one month) is allowed, unless they 
come from a healthy stock and have been found healthy on 
being tested with tuberculin. The object of the association 
is, besides setting a good example, to facilitate the purchase of 
healthy animals, as members who want to buy or sell may 
apply for advice to one among them who keeps a list of the 
farms where healthy animals are for sale. To some of the 
members is delegated the duty of superintending the heating 
of milk at the dairies. Members pay a subscription of 2 kr. 
(about 2s.) yearly. 

Writing in 1908 Bang recorded that the association had 
prospered greatly since its inception in December 1905 and 
had 125 members possessing stock amounting to 2740 cows 
and young cattle. 

Through the kindness of Dr. Kobertson, medical officer of 
health, Birmingham, I am enabled to give the following 
particulars of the working of Bang's system among the cows 
supplying milk to Birmingham. The Birmingham scheme 
was initiated in 1908. It only applies to cowsheds situate 
within ten miles of the city, and from which milk is sent to 
Birmingham. The Corporation of Birmingham supplies free 
of cost the tuberculin and veterinary assistance necessary for 
the testing of the cows twice annually. The farmer undertakes 
to separate the diseased from the healthy cows, and to gradu- 
ally get rid of the diseased animals. Wasters and cows with 
tuberculosis of the udder have to be dried off and sold for 
slaughter. Tuberculosis-free animals are to be marked. The 
farmer has to carry out the necessary disinfection after the 
removal of an infected cow from the shed. Quarterly 
certificates of freedom from tuberculosis are given by the city 
of Birmingham and a public list is kept of farms upon which 
all the cows are free from tuberculosis. 

The following facts give particulars of the scheme at 
Birmingham. At the beginning of 1910, in 13 herds number- 
ing 550 cows, Bang's method was being applied, while 4 
herds with 151 cows came into the scheme during 1910. 



326 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Two of these 17 herds withdrew during the year. Of the 15 
herds left on the list at the end of 1910, 12 were free from 
tuberculosis and 3 were in process of being freed. Of the 12 
only 4 were tubercle-free when first tested. In one of the 3 
herds not free the procedure had been in operation between 
two and three years, the percentage of infected cows being 
reduced from 57*7 to IT'S. In the other 2 herds the pro- 
cedure had only been started during the year. During 1910 
1111 cows were tested, and of these 219 (19' 7 per cent) 
reacted positively to tuberculin. Dr. Robertson remarks : 
" There is therefore now in Birmingham a recognised supply 
of tubercle-free milk, the product of tubercle-free cows ; and 
the demand for such milk appears to be spreading, particularly 
in the better-class districts." 

Ostertag's Method. This procedure, originated by Professor 
Ostertag of Berlin, is based upon the elimination of all cases 
of " open tuberculosis " from dairy herds. The cases of open 
tuberculosis, i.e. those in which tubercle bacilli are eliminated 
externally, are obviously the only ones which are infective, and 
if these can be separated fresh cases cannot arise amongst the 
other animals. Tuberculin is useless to differentiate " open " 
from other tuberculous cases, and the diagnosis is made by con- 
tinued veterinary inspection and bacteriological examination. 
The herd is annually examined by a veterinary inspector 
followed by bacteriological examination of the mixed milk. 
If tubercle bacilli are found in the milk or suspicious animals 
detected clinically, specific veterinary and bacteriological 
examination is again made of these animals. It is an 
optional system. The animals with open tuberculosis must be 
at once isolated and slaughtered for sale, while the premises 
are thoroughly disinfected. The Birmingham Committee also 
investigated this method and remark : 

It is obvious that much real good can be effected on Ostertag's 
lines. Its being a voluntary measure is no doubt against it, and 
while it remains voluntary the extent of its adoption will probably 
not be great. At the same time it is a distinct step forward, and 
on the farms where it is in operation it may confidently be expected 
to somewhat reduce the prevalence of the disease. It will also 
probably help to educate public opinion up to the point at which a 
compulsory measure will be possible. 



xvm PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 327 

From the facts given in Chapter VII. it is clear that 
since it is impossible to recognise when a tuberculous cow 
not excreting tubercle bacilli may become a case of open 
tuberculosis, this method cannot eradicate bovine tuberculosis. 
By removing and eliminating the most infectious animals it 
can mitigate the extent of bovine tuberculosis, but it is not 
more than a palliative. As regards the diminution of the 
risk of tubercle bacilli in milk, it is probably more efficacious. 
Vaccination against Tuberculosis. Numerous investigators 
have shown that the resistance of cattle to infection by the 
tubercle bacillus may be increased by vaccination with living 
tubercle bacilli of virulence too low to cause infection. 
Theoretically the vaccination of young stock offers therefore a 
method for combating bovine tuberculosis. 

In 1902 Von Behring introduced bovo- vaccine for this 
purpose. This substance is a culture of human tubercle 
bacilli of diminished virulence. It is sold as a dried and 
powdered substance. The most reliable results are claimed 
when the animals are vaccinated quite young (i.e. one to three 
months old), two injections being made three months apart, 
the first being with a weaker vaccine than the second. 

Further investigation by Eber and others has shown that 
the immunity is unfortunately not lasting, disappearing 
within one to two years after vaccination. The general results 
seem to show that the degree of immunity produced is not 
sufficient to protect against infection for any length of 
time, and is not worth the trouble and expense involved in 
obtaining it. 

L. Pearson (Philadelphia) has extensively practised the 
vaccination of cattle. He remarks that the degree of 
immunity is proportional, in large measure, to the extent of 
vaccination, i.e. to the number of times vaccinated, the dosage, 
and the period of time recovered. The duration of resistance 
is from one to three years. The vaccine may be administered 
subcutaneously or intravenously. Judgment on its practical 
value must be suspended pending further results. 

Heymans, at the Washington Tuberculosis Congress (1908), 
reported that in Belgium about 40,000 animals had been 
vaccinated by his method. In this method Heymans intro- 
duces a capsule containing tubercle bacilli under the skin. 



328 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The bacilli are retained in the sac, but their toxins pass 
through the dialysable substance of the sac and immunise the 
animal. The technique is said to be quite simple and the 
results so far satisfactory. 

These vaccination methods are extremely interesting, but 
it appears that no results are yet available, proving that they 
are of permanent value in eradicating bovine tuberculosis. 

Niven, 1 from a consideration of the whole subject, concludes 
that " no proposal which has not for its declared aim the 
extirpation of bovine tuberculosis contains that element of 
ultimate profit which justifies large present sacrifices." He 
summarises the proposals he puts forward to control bovine 
tuberculosis as follows : 

1. The country to lend money at a low rate of interest to 
landowners, on sufficient security, to enable them to carry out 
necessary works of construction or reconstruction. 

2. The country as a whole to provide the veterinary staff* 
required and the tuberculin, as well as to make good losses 
involved in the first instance in eliminating tuberculosis from 
herds. 

3. The maintenance of non-tuberculous herds to be com- 
pulsory, and the cost of any renewal of stock to fall upon the 
farmer. 

4. In return for their contribution to the agricultural 
interest, consuming communities should have rights of control 
over the production of milk which they consume. 

5. Milk dealers in entering into contracts should be 
obliged to satisfy themselves that their milk is produced under 
reasonably healthy conditions. 

The control of bovine tuberculosis has been taken up with 
vigour and enthusiasm in many of the States comprised in the 
United States of America. For a critical consideration of the 
different methods practised, the enactments framed, and the 
results obtained, the very valuable Report to the Local 
Government Board by Dr. Eastwood should be consulted. 
Eastwood's main conclusions upon this subject are as follows : 

1. It is imperative, in the interests of agriculture, that 
dairy cows with advanced or generalised tuberculosis, or with 
tuberculosis of the udder, should be destroyed. 

1 British Medical Journal, Sept. 11, 1909, p. 699. 



PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 329 

2. In order to discover these dangerous animals, an 
efficient service of inspectors is required. The public must be 
prepared to meet all the cost of adequately inspecting the 
condition of dairy cattle. 

3. It is essential in the interest of agriculture that com- 
pensation should not be paid out of the public funds for 
slaughtered cattle showing advanced or generalised tuberculosis, 
or tuberculosis of the udder. 

4. The testing of entire herds with tuberculin should be 
encouraged, and for this purpose the assistance of public 
money is requisite and desirable. 

5. If tuberculin is to be of value- in the suppression of 
disease it must be employed as a necessary guarantee of 
health, not merely as an aid to diagnosis in cases where 
disease is suspected. 

6. Public money spent on re- testing, with a view to 
establishing thoroughly the soundness of herds giving on the 
first test either no reactions, or only a small percentage of 
reactions, would be money well spent. 

*7. Reacting animals possessing a market value might 
under special circumstances be taken over by the community 
at a price exceeding their market value, but, with this 
limited exception, compensation out of the public funds does 
not appear to be justifiable. The special circumstances con- 
templated are when there are only a few reacting animals, 
and it is advantageous to secure a number of foci of healthy 
animals. 

8. Local authorities, by establishing and maintaining clean 
herds for the supply of public institutions, would provide a 
valuable means of educating the farmer. 

9. The difficulty at present seems to lie not so much in 
the lack of public support of a financial nature as in the lack 
of evidence that the agricultural interest is prepared to turn 
to good advantage such effective public support as might be 
offered. 

II. THE PREVENTION OF HUMAN INFECTION FROM MATERIAL 

CONTAINING BOVINE TUBERCLE BACILLI 

The facts detailed in the earlier part of this Chapter show 
that the eradication of bovine tuberculosis will be at the best 



330 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

a long and tedious business, even if the problem is tackled 
with enthusiasm and a long purse. It has been shown that 
at least 10 per cent of samples of market milk contain 
tubercle bacilli. What steps should be taken now to deal 
with this bulk of infectious milk and prevent human disease, 
pending a successful attack upon bovine tuberculosis ? The 
necessity for some definite action has been realised by a 
number of the large cities, and special powers have been 
obtained to deal with this matter and prevent tubercle- 
infected milk from reaching their inhabitants. These 
important powers require consideration as well as the results 
achieved by them. 

Local Acts and Powers in England for preventing Milk- 
spread Human Tuberculosis. In 1899 Manchester obtained by 
a private Act The Manchester Corporation (General Powers) 
Act, 1899 special powers to deal with suspected tuberculous 
milk consumed within the city. Certain further sections 
were added in 1904. These Manchester Milk Clauses 
are printed in full in the Appendix (pp. 418-421). They 
have been adopted with slight modifications in a number of 
other towns, of which may be especially mentioned Liverpool, 
Birmingham, Sheffield, Leeds, and Sunderland. Through the 

O ' o 

kindness of Dr. Newsholme (Medical Officer, Local Government 
Board), the writer is enabled to state that up to the end of 
1910 the Local Authorities who have obtained the Model 
Clauses as to tuberculous milk in Local Acts number 102, 
consisting of the London County Council, 67 boroughs, and 
24 urban districts. It would, however, appear that in the 
majority of these areas these powers are in the main nnen- 
forced. London obtained similar powers by an Act of 1907 
(London County Council (General Powers) Act, 1907, Part IV.) 
which became operative July 1, 1908. In 1904 the London 
County Council had obtained powers to remove cows suffering 
from udder tuberculosis, to slaughter them, and to pay 
compensation, but the powers only applied to cows within 
the London administrative county. In addition to clauses 
similar to those of Manchester, their extended powers 
require that the London County Medical Officer shall in all 
cases where reasonably practicable, without involving delay 
in the exercise of the powers, give to the Medical Officer of the 



xvm PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 331 

County in which the dairy is situate, previous notice in 
writing of his intention to enter such dairy for the purpose 
of inspecting the cows kept therein. 

These special powers have been in force in Manchester 
since 1900 and in other cities for considerable periods, so that 
it is possible to obtain an estimate as to how far they have 
succeeded in attaining the objects for which they were framed. 

These Milk Clauses require notification by dairymen of all 
cases of udder tuberculosis among cows in cowsheds sending 
milk into the city, and prohibit the sale of milk from such 
cows within the city. They give powers for collecting milk 
samples and additional powers of inspection for cowsheds 
within the city. Their essential and characteristic feature is, 
however, the power of inspection which they give of cowsheds 
and cows supplying milk into the city, although themselves 
outside, whenever the city authorities suspect milk from such 
farms to be tuberculous. The inspection can be followed up 
by prohibiting the infected milk from being supplied within 
the city as long as it is dangerous. 

The effectiveness of these powers may be considered from 
several points of view. 

(a) Their Influence upon the Prevalence of Tubercle Bacilli 
in the Milk supplied to the City enforcing them. The following 
table shows some of the results obtained. 



[TABLE 



332 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 







8 


2 


J I 1 Tt< 


Tf co : CD 


OS* SH OS 


2 


^ ^ 


6 i>- -co 


g 






i i 


05 ^ OS 
rH 55 ' | 




^ 




.O 

00 00 




^H 00 


OS lO ^t 1 ^ ^ 


o ri o 


2 


0-^0 


6 i^ cb t' 6 

r-t i 1 I 1 


OS g OS 

I-H -i-l l-H 


00 

o 


00 

c?q cp p 

00 CO CN 


OS CO CO O D 
O5 r-l lO r- r 1 

i-i cq i-i 


42" S -2" 

H^ In 








-o fl ^ 








; r- j>- p 


f- iO 


S PH 


2 


^ I-H 


OS GO 


sS ?; 


/ ^5 X ! 






-a Q 




^s 




-u 


r-Ci rH r^ 
t"? K-^ r* 


4S o qq CO -* 

5 CD CD r- 


CD g 
05 ^ 


1- 1 


< 


Q) 


^.^ Q^ . 


w 


MH 


^S* 5 ^^ ^S^ 


^ 


^ 


s ^ 5> 


cb co o 
co 


S 7 


^^ . ^ 

^r-J rH ^ 


sf 


00 



1^11 


3 1- qq 

jg 1 2 CD 05 .-H 


cb ^ 
o 


tri 


^ oq 


_0 


iO O t 


S) g ^t i I CO 






^2 coo 

r^i i l 


CD PH 




J i *~ s 


cp : : : 


5 ^ 


^ 




hH ^ 


; 


r i 




<>> 




*o 


^ 1- rH CD 




3 o d ^ 


- <S> : C~. 

^ , r-H 

rS ' 


cc ?b o 




;g O5 OS ^ 
O 1 " 1 T ~~ l qj 


^> 







^ .. Qj 








$ O O 


<o 


. 




l!!f 


5*H 




$ 


1 1 1 1 




02 


ao '"' 


{25 s,- 




^ S 


J 


. ^ ^ p 




r-< O 


s" J i 1 J ^ 




02 ^ 


C^ C** gp^ ^^ Kj KJ rO 




K*-5 ^ 


10 a . . 


^^-1^-5 




P^ t/2 


* 


iD ^ d 




"d ^ 




d ^- ^* 




3 i 


f3 C^ ^> '^'^^ 


O O 







pj S . O 


Q 5^^ 5^. Q 




O H 

s J 

to O 'o 

0) O O 

,3 PH O, 


6 a g ^ q 

1 1 o d 

4 -a 9 ^ 7 

^ .a s? 


tsiw 



r 1 C 1 ! CO "^ 



PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 333 

The Manchester figures are the most important, as they deal with 
a very large number of samples, extending over a number of years. 

The table shows that there has been some diminution 
in the percentage of tuberculous samples, but that, apart from 
the first few years of working, it has been neither continuous 
nor very marked. During the first few years some of the worst 
offenders would doubtless be weeded out and warned off from 
supplying the particular city. The amount of tuberculous 
milk for Manchester drops to about 6 per cent, and to about 
9 per cent for Sheffield, and there it remains. No regular, 
consistent diminution in the infective quality of the milk is 
observable. If the Manchester figures are carried back to 
1897, and only the samples bringing milk into Manchester 
(country samples) are considered, the beneficial results of the 
first few years working are more clearly brought out. Thus 
Delepine 1 gives the percentage of tubercle-infected mixed-milk 
samples arriving in Manchester as 13 -3 for 1897, 20*0 for 1898, 
and ll'l for 1900. Delepine also records that "the lesions 
observed in inoculated animals have of recent years become gener- 
ally slight when compared with those produced ten years ago." 

(5) Their Influence upon the Prevalence of Udder Tuber- 
culosis. The following tables supply some data. 



Year. 


Manchester.2 


Sheffield. 3 


Percentage of 
Farmers sending 
Tuberculous Milk. 


Percentage of 
outside Cows 
found with Udder 
Tuberculosis. 


Percentage of 
Country Cows 
with Udder 
Tuberculosis. 


Percentage of 
City Cows 
with Udder 
Tuberculosis. 


1901 


9-9 


1-4 




0-47 


1902 


10-4 


2-5 


2-7 


0-31 


1903 


13-6 


1-1 


0-96 


0-45 


1904 


9-1 


0-6 


0-59 


0-45 


1905 
1906 


8-3 

7-7 


0-9 
1-05 


3-9 
3-6 


0-26 
0-14 


1907 


6-76 


1-1 


1-9 


0-8 


1908 


9-34 


0-9 


2-4 


0-9 


1909 


5-79 


1-03 


4-0 


1-1 


Average 


8-6 




2-3 


... 



1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Hoard, 1908-9, p. 393. 

2 From information kindly furnished by Dr. Niven. 
3 Report of Medical Officer of Health (Dr. Scurfield), Sheffield, 1909. 



334 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 





S?^ J ^2 a I ^^S^^^SiS^ 

O ,53 t> 3 ^ ,_, "^ ^ r3 r~* CO CN r~l CO CO CO G^ CO 

ZO^HgoB^l 


11 

a g 




"---- ; - ; 


Ji- 




Sl^'r.gj-i'H-SS-J;.^ CM i i CM CM i I i i CM 


ll 




6^EHg|"po* 


5 Q 




i . 


1^? 




X 5 J? i i CM i i CM CM CM CM r-H 


^3 




"x "^ 


a; a 






-M O 




g| CD^^OOCMO^CO^ 






| 


^^ 




s 


p ^ 




J : .>/ ... 


^ r? 




f c j Up -' : : : co : CM co CM 


^ . 




5 x ^ - i~- 

c || 


* -B 






1 1 


^ 

-Ki 


CM i-* CM CM 


s ^ 


^1 


""" ; 


I 


1 


2 0^ CDOCDCMOOCJCD^C^ 


o 




f n 5S -- 1 


O *-i 




= ^3 


PH ~o 




M .22 


c8 






^ r "^ 




t|| g || ^^ooo^oooco 


r| >^ 




"SgOScSl^ > i CO CM r-H CO CO CM CM CO 


^ 1 ^ 




biffs' 


1 1 
s * 




^ "~* 2 '""' CO CO r ' Tt" 1 *O Tf CN i i 


{*, ^ 




Q "*^ ty '^3 m ^ O CM tO CO C^l GO i-O "^f O> 


S S OJ 




^3pi-p_d ^n^-iCMCMCOCMCMCMCO 


<D -M C 




X ^'''" ' 


* O) tO 




-* 'L 

~ ~ a == 'i 1^ CD O CJ t^ CM GO CD CM 
^gy^-2 CMCO^CM^^COCMCO 


02 "^ .S 

1^ 




v-> C 2 


<D & 




"^ ! 


X ~ -*-J 




d 


! s 




C-iS^-^p CM O CJ GO O CM CM CS ir: 






-fS^c^sSc '^ ~^ fM ' ^ "* ^ W 


<_ OQ *a 




^ ^ g S .c -g CM co co co o o o CM o 


S s 




o 


SH ^ t ^' 










*0 r ? Z'Z O O CM CM ^H I-- CM T}H CO 

-X^-^ ^CMCOCOCDi^CDi i CM 


g cf 




O^S~5 CO^^^t^CDCDCOCD 


g ^ o 




r-iCMCO^OCDr^GCCJ 


^ ! s 




rt OOOOOOOOO 


^ rt M 




,* CJCJCJCJCJCJCJCJCJ 


m r^i 

> t - 




" |^r-H^^r^r-H^^^ 


E-i s 



xvm PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 335 

The actual figures for Manchester are given in the preced- 
ing table, which was compiled by Dr. Mven. 

These tables show that the percentage of farmers sending 
tuberculous milk to Manchester varied from 5 '7 9 to 13*6, 
the average being 8'6. Except for 1908 there has been a 
steady, though not very marked, decline since 1903. In 
other words, there has probably been a moderate but steady 
diminution in the number of farms with cows suffering from 
open tuberculosis sending milk to Manchester. 

As regards udder tuberculosis the table shows no per- 
centage diminution in either Manchester or Sheffield. In 
Sheffield during 1909 the veterinary inspectors found as 
many as 42 cows with tuberculosis of the udder out of about 
3600 cows stalled in Sheffield city. 

Finding these cases of udder tuberculosis cannot be 
considered as playing any effective part in the diminution of 
bovine tuberculosis. The elimination of a certain number of 
cases of open tuberculosis in cattle is no doubt some check 
upon the spread of bovine tuberculosis, but the number of 
cases eliminated is so small in proportion to the total bulk 
of infectious matter in the country that the influence exerted 
must be trifling. During nine years' work at Manchester 
232 cows from country areas and 9 from city cowsheds, and 
during eight years at Sheffield 74 country cows and 134 from 
city cowsheds, suffering from udder tuberculosis, were found, 
obviously a nearly negligible factor in the spread of the 
disease in cattle. In addition any beneficial effects are 
further reduced by the fact that not all these cows with udder 
tuberculosis are slaughtered. The following table shows what 
became of most of the Manchester and Sheffield cows found to 
be suffering from udder tuberculosis or marked general tuber- 
culosis : 



Fate of Cows. 


Manchester 
(1901-1909 inclusive). 


Sheffield 
(1901-1909 inclusive). 


Died or slaughtered 
Sold or not traced 


170 

56 (24 per cent) 


185 

24 (11-5 per cent) 



336 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

It is clear that a certain proportion of these cows are not 
slaughtered, but are lost sight of under the imperfect powers 
available. 

(c) Their Influence upon the Purity of the Milk Supply as 
a whole. Delepine in Manchester has paid careful attention 
to this indirect but important aspect of the subject. He 
estimates the amount of dirt in milk by a method which 
enables comparison between the different years to be instituted. 
By his scale for the years 1897, 1898, and 1900 over 60 
per cent of the milk samples examined gave sediments 
measuring 9 mm. or more. For 1901 the amount fell so 
that only 40 per cent, of the samples gave sediments 9 mm. 
or more. The amount remained about the same for the 
following five years, but in 1906 a further improvement was 
noted, only about 32 per cent giving sediment of 9 mm. or 
more. Delepine * gives the following table : 

Amount of Sediment separated Ijy Centrifugalisation. 

(Manchester. Mixed milk taken at railway stations, or at other places away from 

the farm.) 



Years. 


Clean Milk. Doubtful. 


Milk contained marked 
excess of dirt or abnormal 
products. 
Total. 


Under 7 mm. 


7-8 mm. 


0-10 mm. 


ll-l-J mm. 


13-20 mm. 


1896-1900 
1901-1902 
1903-1904 
1905 . . 

1906 . . 


Actual Per 
No. cent. 


Actual Per 
Xo. cent. 

160 35-2 
325 \ 37'7 
295 34-0 
276 j 36-1 
296 42-0 


Actual : Per 
No. i cent. 


Actual Per 
No. cent. 


. 

Actual Per 
No. cent. 1 


19 4-2 
186 21-5 
164 18-9 
190 24-8 
185 26-2 


218 47-9 
280 32-5 
326 i 37'5 
242 J31-6 
188 ! 267 


45 : 9-9 
53 ! 6-1 
57 6-5 
49 6-4 
31 4-4 


| 
12 2-6 i 454 
17 1-9 861 
15 1-7 867 
7 0-9 764 
4 0-5 704 


3650 



The numbers indicating the amount of sediment show only the relative 
amount. The absolute amount of sediment is not given in this table. 

If the amount of sediment be accepted as a reliable 
measure of the cleanliness of a milk supply these results 
si low that the operation of the Manchester Milk Clauses has 
resulted in a considerable improvement in the cleanliness of 
the milk supplied to the city. 

1 Report to the Manchester Sanitary Committee, 1908. 



PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 337 

In considering the value of these special powers it must 
always be remembered that their sole object is the protection 
of the particular city for which they were obtained. Apart 
from any educational influence which they may exert, their 
effect on the amount of bovine tuberculosis in the country 
as a whole is, for practical purposes, nil as long as they are 
only locally applied. Their national as distinct from their 
local value is negligible. 

As regards their effectiveness to protect the community 
obtaining the powers against the dangers of bovine tuber- 
culosis spread by milk, the figures quoted show that, apart 
from their initial effects, only a moderate measure of success 
has been attained. The writer, from a careful study of the 
results obtained, is of opinion that these clauses, confined 
in their powers as they are by restrictions and limitations, 
have not effected results commensurate with the cost of 
working them. Apart from the first few years of operation, 
when for easily understood reasons their beneficial influence 
would be at a maximum, they do not seem to have effected 
a marked reduction in the amount of tuberculous milk 
imported into the cities carrying them out. 

Several considerations, apart from actual results achieved, 
show that markedly beneficial results of a permanent 
character are not likely to accrue. Thus a consideration of 
the powers acquired and the clauses themselves show that 
they are essentially based upon an assumption which cannot 
be accepted without large reservations. The assumption is 
that the presence of tubercle bacilli in milk is due to the 
herd supplying the milk containing one or more cows affected 
with clinically recognisable udder tuberculosis, and if these 
cows are removed the danger ceases. This assumption, in 
view of the findings of the Koyal Commission on Tuber- 
culosis and of other investigators, cannot be accepted as 
true. In further support of this statement may be in- 
stanced the facts quoted on p. 132 as to the considerable 
number of cases in which tubercle bacilli are found in 
milk but in which no cases of udder tuberculosis which can 
be diagnosed are found. Apparently the cowkeeper in 
such cases may continue to send unchecked his milk into 
the city. 

z 



338 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Again, action along the lines of the Milk Clauses must 
fail to effectively deal with the whole problem since they 
attempt to treat a symptom they do not treat the underlying 
condition bovine tuberculosis. Applied to special areas only, 
as already stated, they exert a practically negligible influence 
upon the manufacture of bovine tuberculosis (although they 
may divert its products to unprotected places) but merely 
deal with the small amount of it which comes under their 
special cognizance. If the clauses were universally applied 
they would, no doubt, be made much more effective ; but even 
then the powers given are insufficient. 

One of the greatest weaknesses of the clauses is the 
absence of powers to deal with a cow with udder tuberculosis 
when found. She is difficult to diagnose and a potent danger 
to mankind, and yet when the elaborate business of bacterio- 
logical examination and veterinary inspection reaches its 
fruition and a cow with a tuberculous udder is found, all the 
law mildly enacts is 

(1) The cow owner must not keep or permit such cow to 
be kept in any field, shed, or other premises along with other 
cows in milk l under a penalty. 

(2) The milk of such a cow shall not be mixed with 
other food, and shall not be sold or used for human food, and 
shall not be sold or used for food of swine, or other animal, 
unless and until it has been boiled. 

In other words, the owner can banish the cow from other 
cows in milk and stop using her milk, and then he has 
fulfilled the whole of the law. There is, apparently, nothing 
to prevent him selling the cow with or without saying any- 
thing about the udder condition. 

It is well known that the powers granted are less than 
those originally asked for, and the slaughter of cows suffering 
from udder tuberculosis was one of the clauses which Parlia- 
ment failed to endorse. 

The clauses say nothing about disinfection of premises. 
If a cow is found with udder tuberculosis, it is highly probable 
that it is not the only case of open tuberculosis in the herd, 
so that disinfection may seem scarcely wortli while. As a 

1 The italics are the writer's. Apparently she may be kept with calves, or 
cows now dry which will soon again be in milk. 



XVIII 



PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 339 



means of impressing the farmer with the infectious nature 
of the condition it would, however, be sometimes very 
useful. 

The Board of Agriculture and Fisheries issued a Tubercu- 
losis Order with an explanatory letter in 1909, to come into 
force January 1, 1910. This Order was withdrawn owing 
to the Milk Bill not being placed upon the Statute Book. 
This Order is not, therefore, and has never been, in force, but it 
is printed in the Appendix since it indicates the direction of 
probable future legislation. 

To prevent the dangers of tuberculous milk the essential 
step would appear to be to help and encourage the farmer to 
eradicate tuberculosis from his herd. The farmer will not, 
indeed frequently cannot, do this without State aid. Such aid 
should be in the direction of free tuberculin and free veterinary 
assistance. The writer is in agreement with Eastwood that 
such assistance should not take the form of compensation for 
cattle slaughtered as suffering from udder or advanced 
tuberculosis. All such animals should certainly be slaughtered. 
It might be reasonable and probably would be politic, if any 
general scheme of prevention is inaugurated, to pay compensa- 
tion for such animals for perhaps the first two or three years ; 
but after that, if any cows with advanced tuberculosis are 
found in cowsheds the owners should be fined. Any com- 
pensation should be paid out of imperial rather than 
local funds, otherwise the urban districts do not pay their 
share. 

It would be a decided advantage if at least a few farms 
supplying milk from non-tuberculous cows could be obtained 
for each large urban area. The consumer should be educated 
up to the appreciation of the value of such a supply, and be 
prepared to pay a little more for such milk. This would 
both encourage the farmer and stimulate others to go and do 
likewise. 

Quite recently a valuable and authoritative report in 
America has been issued upon the control of bovine tuber- 
culosis. The American Veterinary Medical Association, 
at its meeting in Chicago in September 1909, appointed 
what they called the International Commission on the 
Control of Bovine Tuberculosis. The following is the 



340 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

main report of the Commission l which has been officially 
published by the Canadian and United States Governments. 

Based on the information contained in the reports of its com- 
mittees and on such other information as was brought out in the 
general discussions of the Commission, the following resolutions 
were adopted for presentation to the American Veterinary Medical 
Association : 

( 1 ) Dissemination. 

As a general policy to be observed, all contact between 
tuberculous and healthy cattle and between healthy cattle and 
stables, cars, etc., which may contain living tubercle bacilli should 
be prevented. To accomplish this the following specific recom- 
mendations are made : 

(1) There should be no sale or exchange of animals affected 
with tuberculosis except for immediate slaughter or for breeding 
purposes under official supervision. 

(2) That the managements of live stock shows should give 
preference to cattle known to be free from tuberculosis, either by 
providing special classes for such cattle or in some other practical 
way, and should also take every precaution to prevent contact 
between such animals and those not known to be free from disease. 

(3) All live stock shippers should take every precaution to 
see that cars furnished are thoroughly cleansed and disinfected 
before use. 

(2) Tuberculin Ted. 

(1) That tuberculin, properly used, is an accurate and reliable 
diagnostic agent for the detection of active tuberculosis. 

(2) That tuberculin may not produce a reaction under the 
following conditions : 

(a) When the disease is in a period of incubation, (b) When 
the progress of the disease is arrested, (c) When the disease is 
extensively generalised. 

The last condition is relatively rare and may usually be detected 
by physical examination. 

(3) On account of the period of incubation and the fact that 
arrested cases may sooner or later become active, all exposed 
animals should be retested at intervals of six months to one year. 

(4) That the tuberculin test should not be applied to any 
animal having a temperature higher than normal. 

(5) That any animal having given one distinct reaction to 
tuberculin should thereafter be regarded as tuberculous. 

1 Taken from the full report reprinted in the Journal of Meat and Milk 
Hygiene, 1911, vol. i. p. 248. 



PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 341 

(6) That the subcutaneous injection of tuberculin is the only 
method of using tuberculin for the detection of tuberculosis in 
cattle which can be recommended at the present time. 

(7) That tuberculin has no injurious effect on healthy cattle. 

(3) Evidence from Tuberculin Test. 

That a positive reaction to tuberculin in any properly conducted 
test, official or otherwise, in any animal in any herd, shall be con- 
sidered evidence sufficient upon which to declare the herd to be 
infected. 

(4) Compulsory Notification. 

That this Commission recommends the passage of legislation 
providing for the compulsory notification by owners and by 
veterinarians of the existence of tuberculosis in a herd, whether 
such existence be made known by detection of clinical cases or by 
the tuberculin test. 

(5) Location through Slaughter. 

This Commission recognises that the discovery of tuberculosis 
in animals slaughtered for food purposes furnishes one of the best 
possible means of locating the disease on the farm, and therefore 
recommends the adoption of some system of marking, for purposes 
of identification, all cattle three years old and over, shipped for 
slaughter. 

As tuberculosis of hogs is almost invariably due to bovine 
infection, this recommendation should also be made to apply to 
hogs of any age shipped for slaughter. 

It is further recommended that the discovery of tuberculosis 
in animals coming under government inspection should be used, 
whenever identification is possible, as a means of locating infected 
herds and premises. All such cases should be reported to the 
proper authorities for control action. 

(6) Disposition of Tuberculous Animals. 

The Commission Plan. (1) As a general policy, in the eradication 
of tuberculosis the separation of healthy and diseased animals and 
the construction of a healthy herd are recommended. 

In order to accomplish this, the following recommendations are 
made : 

1. If the herd is found to be extensively infected, as shown by 
the tuberculin test or clinical examination, even the apparently 
healthy animals in it should be regarded with suspicion, until they 
have been separated from the reacting animals for at least three 
months. 

If, after the expiration of this time, they do not react to the 



342 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

tuberculin test, they may be considered healthy and dealt with 
accordingly. 

It is recommended that a herd extensively infected should not 
be treated by the method of general separation, but that the con- 
struction of a new herd from the offspring only is advisable. 

2. If the herd is found, by either or both of the above methods, 
to contain a relatively small proportion of diseased animals, separa- 
tion of the diseased animals from the healthy animals, and the 
construction of a sound herd from the healthy animals, and the 
offspring of both, is advocated. 

As a working basis in carrying out these principles, we advise : 

(a) That herds containing 50 per cent or more of diseased 
animals be treated as coming under section 1. 

(b) That herds containing under 1 5 per cent of diseased animals 
be treated as coming under section 2. 

(c) That herds falling between these figures be graded according 
to the option of the owner. 

(d) That it shall be the prerogative of the owner to reject 
either plan, and have his herd dealt with by removal and slaughter 
of diseased animals, with or without compensation, according to the 
public policy in operation. 

(2) That when by any means the officials properly charged 
with the control of tuberculosis become aware of its existence in 
a herd to which a policy of slaughter and compensation cannot 
reasonably be applied, such herd must be dealt with by the owner, 
under Government supervision, on the principle of the separation 
of all sound animals from those affected. Such separation must 
be effected by treating the whole herd as diseased, and rearing the 
calves separately, either on pasteurised milk or the milk of healthy 
cows ; or when the number of those affected is so small as to warrant 
such a course, by the application to the whole herd, from time to 
time, under official supervision, of the tuberculin test, and the entire 
segregation of all animals found to react. 

In the event of any owner refusing or neglecting to adopt 
either of the above methods, his entire herd to be closely quaran- 
tined and sales therefrom to be entirely prohibited. 

(3) That a policy of compensation be recommended as useful 
and usually necessary as a temporary measure. 

(4) That, when slaughter is necessary, in order to avoid 
economic loss, every effort should be made to utilise as far as 
possible the meat of such animals as may be found fit for food on 
being slaughtered under competent inspection. 

(5) The details of the Commission Plan are fully set forth in 
a separate Appendix (not reproduced). 



xvm PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 343 



(7) Prevention. 

(1) That with the object of preventing the spread of infection, 
persons buying cattle for breeding purposes or milk production 
should, except when such purchases are made from disease-free 
herds, which have been tested by a properly qualified person, 
purchase only subject to the tuberculin test. In order to assist in 
the proper carrying out of this suggestion, the Commission 
recommends that official authorities should adopt such regulations 
as will prevent the entry to their respective territories of cattle 
for breeding purposes or milk production unless accompanied by 
satisfactory tuberculin test charts. 

(2) That all milk and milk by-products used as food should be 
properly pasteurised unless derived from cows known to be free 
from tuberculosis. 

(8) Control of Tuberculin Test. 

That the Commission recommends the passage of legislation 
which will prevent the sale, distribution or use of tuberculin by 
any persons other than those acting with the full knowledge, or 
under the direction, of official authorities. 

(9) Education. 

As a clear knowledge of the cause and character of tuber- 
culosis among animals, the modes of dissemination, and its signifi- 
cance as an economic and as a public health problem, underlie an 
intelligent adherence to the principles that must be observed in all 
efforts for eradication, as well as the establishment of proper 
co-operation in the great work between physicians, veterinarians, 
live stock owners, legislators, and the public generally, it is re- 
commended that a widespread campaign of education be under- 
taken. To accomplish this end it is recommended that, first of all, 
a simple pamphlet on bovine tuberculosis be written, in which the 
language used shall be of such character that every person of 
average intelligence shall be able to read it without being 
mystified by technical terms or phrases. This pamphlet should 
be published with the endorsement of the American Veterinary 
Association and the special endorsement and consequent authority 
of the International Commission on Bovine Tuberculosis Control. 

(10) Publicity. 

In concluding its work the Commission desires to especially 
appeal to the Press, metropolitan, agricultural, and local, to join 
in the work of extending as much as possible among the people 
the conclusions here arrived at. The vital importance of the life 



344 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

of farm animals to the welfare of all classes of society needs no 
argument in its support. The aim and sole purpose which has 
actuated this Commission has been to arrive at the soundest con- 
clusions possible in the light of the best knowledge obtainable. 

(11) Legislation. 

It is recommended that legislation regarding the control and 
eradication of tuberculosis among domestic animals be made 
uniform ; that the laws of the United States and Canada and other 
American countries for the admission into America of animals 
from without be made stringent and as much alike as possible ; and 
that the laws governing the interstate and interprovincial move- 
ment of cattle and that between different American countries be 
harmonised. 

The laws governing interstate and interprovincial movement 
of cattle should be of such character that every state and every 
province will be free in its eradication work from unnecessary 
difficulties due to the existence of the disease in other states and 
provinces. 

Legislation is especially required to prevent the various 
frauds which interfere with the satisfactory use of tuberculin sold 
to be used by veterinarians and others. 

(12) Sanitation. 

In the eradication of tuberculosis it should be kept in mind 
that, in addition to protecting the animals against exposure to 
tubercle bacilli, it is desirable to make them as resistant to infec- 
tion as possible. This can be done by stabling them in clean, 
disinfected, and properly lighted and ventilated barns, giving them 
abundant clean water and nutritious food, a sufficient amount of 
daily exercise in the open air, and attending generally to those 
conditions which are well known to contribute to the health of 
animals. 

The daily removal of manure from stables, and water-tight 
floors and good drainage in stables are urgently recommended. 

Young stock particularly should be raised as hardy as possible, 
and should be accustomed to liberal exercise and living in the 
open. 

(13) Immunisation. 

That as none of the various methods for the immunisation of 
animals against tuberculosis have passed sufficiently beyond the 
experimental stage, the Commission is unable to endorse any of 
those for practical use at the present time. 



xvm PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 345 



(14) 4nimal Tuberculosis and Public Health. 

While the members recognise that the subject with which this 
Commission is primarily intended to deal is the control and eradi- 
cation of tuberculosis among animals as an economic problem, 
they cannot feel satisfied without declaring their recognition of 
the fact that tuberculosis among animals is also an important 
public health problem. Considered as such, the eradication of 
tuberculosis among animals should have the approval and support 
of all those persons who are interested in curtailing human suffer- 
ing and prolonging human life. 

(15) General Statement. 

The members of the Commission wish it to be clearly under- 
stood that they recognise the limitations of a report necessarily 
based on actual and not on theoretical conditions. They fully 
realise that in the event of the policy of which their recommenda- 
tions form the framework being anywhere adopted even in its 
entirety, much greater benefit will be derived, at least for some 
time, from its educative than from its executive features. 

The control, to say nothing of the eradication, of bovine 
tuberculosis, is impossible of achievement, without the hearty 
co-operation of the men who are actually engaged in the cattle 
industry. In order to secure this co-operation, it will doubtless^ 
be necessary, in most communities, to carry on an active and pro- 
longed educational campaign. 

It is apparent that in the dissemination of practical and re- 
liable information regarding the disease, it will be possible to 
employ a very large variety of methods. Many of these methods, 
such as bulletins, lectures, and actual demonstrations of disease, 
having already been found valuable, will doubtless continue to be 
largely used. 

It must not be forgotten, however, that in this, as in any 
other educative process, a measure of disciplinary control is essen- 
tial to success. Needless to say, such control can be secured only 
by the passage of legislation which, while clear and comprehen- 
sive, must, at the same time, be sufficiently conservative to avoid 
exciting alarm or arousing antagonism on the part of owners 
especially of valuable herds. 

The best law ever framed can be made an utter failure by 
stupid or injudicious administration, while, on the other hand, the 
most drastic legislation can be rendered acceptable if enforced 
with reasonable tact and diplomacy. Provided, therefore, that 
these qualities, combined with integrity, thoroughness, and deter- 
mination, are available for administrative purposes, the members 



346 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH . xvm 

of the Commission are convinced that the enforcement of a law 
based on their recommendations, will prove to be far the most 
powerful and effective educational agency which could possibly be 
employed. 

In concluding its report, the Commission would suggest that 
the Association should make such provision as may be necessary 
to carry on the work either by continuing the Commission as at 
present constituted or with such changes in the personnel as may 
be considered desirable. 



CHAPTEE XIX 

SPECIAL METHODS TO OBTAIN A PURER MILK SUPPLY 

THE inability of the present laws, both theoretically and as 
practically carried out, to ensure a pure milk supply is clearly 
recognised by those intimately acquainted with the subject, 
and through their efforts a number of special powers have 
been obtained, or special procedures practised by local com- 
munities, to obtain a cleaner and a purer milk supply. In 
America especially, great attention has been paid to this 
subject, and several methods have been originated which are 
of great value and worthy of at least careful consideration, if 
not imitation, in this country. These special methods are 
conveniently considered together under the following heads : 

I. English special milk powers. 
II. The " certified milk " movement. 

III. English milk depots. 

IV. The score-card system. 

V. Special American regulations. 

I. ENGLISH SPECIAL MILK POWERS 

These powers are practically confined to milk in its 
relationship to tuberculosis, and as such have been fully con- 
sidered in Qfcapter XVIII. 

II. CERTIFIED MILK 

The honour of originating the Medical Milk Commission 
movement belongs to Dr. Henry Coit l of Newark, New Jersey, 

1 I have to thank Dr. Coit, Dr. 0. P. Geier (Secretary of the American 
Medical Milk Commissions Association), and Mr. L. G. Tedesche (Bacterio- 
logist, Milk Commission, Cincinnati) for sending me their reports and numerous 
other pamphlets on the subject, from which the account given has been largely 
compiled. 

347 



34 8 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

U.S.A. In 1890 the Medical Society of the State of New 
Jersey, at his suggestion, appointed a committee of forty 
physicians to study the relationship between mortalities and 
milk supplies, and to secure better legislation to improve the 
milk supply. Failing in this direction, Coit, with other 
medical men, started in 1893 the first Commission, which was 
called the " Essex County Milk Commission." The idea grew 
but slowly at first, for only twelve were organised in other 
areas during the next fourteen years. In 1907 the move- 
ment received a considerable impetus by the formation of an 
association (The American Association of Medical Milk Com- 
missions) comprising all the Medical Milk Commissions then 
in existence. Four annual conferences have been held. At 
the time of the third annual conference in 1909, at Atlantic 
City, it consisted of 58 component commissions in the 
United States and Canada. 

The Milk Commissions exist to ensure the production of 
a better quality of milk certified milk. The certified milk 
movement may be described as a co-operative system between 
certain members of the medical profession and certain pur- 
veyors of milk. The former, in the interests of the community 
and for the benefit of their patients, are willing to lay down 
the conditions necessary to be fulfilled to obtain a pure milk, 
and to take the appropriate means to ensure compliance with 
such conditions. The latter, in their own interests, are willing 
to comply with the regulations for the sake of the increased 
price obtainable for their milk. 

Compliance with the requirements of the Commission 
ensures that a pure milk is obtained, while the use of the 
word " certified " assures the consumer that it is pure and 
worth the extra price charged for it by the dairyman, who is 
put to the increased expense of producing it. 

The term " certified " was copyrighted by Francisco, the first 
dairyman signing a contract to produce milk under the super- 
vision of a Commission with the understanding that any Milk 
Commission should have the right to its use. It is, of course, 
very important that the expression " certified milk " should 
not be degraded by being employed for inferior milk, and the 
restricted use of the term has been upheld in the law courts. 
This has also been recognised by several of the States, and 



XIX 



SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 349 



New York has added a clause to her pure food law protecting 
the term against false use and regulating its employment by 
Milk Commissions : " All milk sold as certified shall be con- 
spicuously marked with the name of the Commission certify- 
ing it." Kentucky also has passed a law regarding certified 
milk. The first law anywhere that gives legal recognition to 
the Medical Milk Commission is the one passed in 1909 by 
the State of New Jersey. As this is of considerable interest 
and importance it is reprinted in the Appendix, p. 447. 

The Commissions are composed (with rare exceptions) of 
medical men usually appointed by medical societies. They 
themselves receive no pay, but employ experts who are gener- 
ally paid. The expenses incurred are paid for by the dairy- 
men, the money being raised in different ways, one of the 
commonest being by the sale of caps for the bottles. 

According to Machell, the additional cost to the consumer 
in the United States has varied from 3 to 8 cents per quart. 
The average additional advance has been about 5 cents per 
quart above the cost of ordinary market milk. Coit, 1 how- 
ever, remarks : " While no milk fit for ordinary domestic use 
can be produced with profit to the dairyman for less than 5 
or 6 cents at first cost, milk of a suitable grade for hospitals 
or for infant feeding cannot be sold at a profit for less than 
15 cents per quart." 

The work carried on by the Commission may be best out- 
lined in Coit's own words : l 

The plan provides that the medical commission establish correct 
clinical standards of purity for the milk ; become responsible for 
periodical expert inspections of the dairy or dairies under its 
patronage ; provide for frequent examinations of the product by a 
chemist and a bacteriologist, the first to determine its food values, 
and the latter to serve as a detective control over the methods 
employed in collecting and handling the milk. The medical com- 
mission also directs a frequent scrutiny of the live stock by 
competent veterinarians, whose duties consist in keeping the herd 
free from disease and also in the detection and exclusion of bovine 
tuberculosis. Likewise the commission directs a systematic medical 
supervision of the health of the dairy employees, and insists upon 
a continuous knowledge, through reports by a physician, of their 
health and personal hygiene. By the service of reliable experts in 

1 Public Health, 1909, vol. xxiii. p. 93. 



350 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

these four departments, safeguards are established against the 
common dangers of impoverished and contaminated milk. 

The actual conditions of production required are usually 
very stringent, and are controlled by frequent bacteriological 
examination. In many instances a numerical standard of the 
number of bacteria per cc. is adopted, this in most cases 
being not more than 10,000 per cc. 

As an example of the requirements of a Milk Commission 
the regulations of the Milk Commission of the Medical Society 
of the County of New York l may be quoted in detail : 

The Commission has fixed upon a maximum of 30,000 germs 
of all kinds per cubic centimetre of milk, which must not be 
exceeded to obtain the indorsement of the Commission. This 
standard must be attained solely by measures directed towards 
scrupulous cleanliness, proper cooling, and prompt delivery. 

The milk certified by the Commission must contain not less 
than 4 per cent of butter fat on the average, and have all other 
characteristics of pure, wholesome milk. 

Milk must not be sold as certified beyond the day on which it 
reaches New York City. No milk may be shipped as certified 
which will reach the city more than 36 hours after production. 

In order that dealers who incur the expense and take the 
precautions necessary to furnish a truly clean and wholesome milk 
may have some suitable means of bringing these facts before the 
public, the Commission offers them the right to use caps on their 
milk jars stamped with the words, " Certified by the Milk Commis- 
sion of the Medical Society of the County of New York." The 
dealers are given the right to use these certificates when their milk 
is obtained under the conditions required by the Commission and 
conforms to its standards. In accordance with a law passed at the 
last legislature, the word "certified" may be used on the cap only 
when accompanied by the name of the society which certifies it. 

The tin sealed cap, authorised by the Commission, must be 
used on all the certified milk passing through the hands of dealers 
selling milk other than the certified. These caps are sent by the 
makers only to the farm where the milk is bottled. The name of 
the farm from which the milk comes must appear on either the 
paper cap or the tin cap. 

Each bottle of milk must be dated on the date of bottling or 
date to be sold. 

The Milk Commission looks to the dealer for its fee. 

Each dealer is expected to send a bottle of milk each week to 
the Research Laboratory of the Department of Health, taken at 

1 Bulletin No. 18, State of New York Department of Agriculture, 1910. 



xrx SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 351 

random from the day's supply, for examination by experts for the 
Commission. Any dealer shipping to more than one town or city 
must supply a sample weekly from each town. 

The dealers are to furnish deep, covered boxes for the certified 
milk. 

The required conditions are as follows : 

1. The Barnyard. The barnyard should be free from manure 
and well drained, so that it may not harbour stagnant water. The 
manure which collects each day should not be piled close to the 
barn, but should be taken several hundred feet away. If these 
rules are observed, not only will the barnyard be free from 
objectionable smell, which is an injury to the milk, but the number 
of flies in summer will be considerably diminished. These flies are 
an element of danger, for they are fond of both filth and milk, 
and are liable to get into the milk after having soiled their bodies 
and legs in recently visited filth, thus carrying it to the milk. 
Flies also irritate cows, and by making them nervous reduce the 
amount of their milk. 

2. The Stable. In the stable the principles of cleanliness must 
be strictly observed. The room in which the cows are milked 
should have no storage loft above it ; where this is not feasible 
the floor of the loft should be tight, to prevent the sifting of dust 
into the stable beneath. The stables should be well ventilated, 
lighted and drained, and should have tight floors, preferably of 
cement, never of dirt. They should be whitewashed inside at 
least twice a year, unless the walls are painted or of smooth cement 
finish which can be washed frequently. 

The air should always be fresh and without bad odour. A 
sufficient number of lanterns should be provided to enable the 
necessary work to be properly done during the dark hours. The 
manure should be removed twice daily, except when the cows are 
outside in the fields the entire time between the morning and 
afternoon milkings. The manure gutter must be kept in a sanitary 
condition. All sweeping of dry floors must be completed before 
grooming of cows is begun. All sweeping must be completed 
before the last washing of udders is begun. 

There should be an adequate supply of water, warm and cold, 
and the necessary wash-basins, soap, and towels. 

3. Water Supply. The whole premises used for dairy purposes, 
as well as the barn, must have a supply of water absolutely free 
from any danger of pollution with animal matter and sufficiently 
abundant for all purposes, and easy of access. 

4. The Cows. No cows will be allowed in the herd furnishing 
certified milk except those which have successfully passed a 
tuberculin test. All must be tested at least once a year by a 
veterinarian approved by the Milk Commission. All tuberculin 



352 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

tests must be arranged through the Milk Commission, or with the 
approval of the Milk Commission, and must be so planned that the 
representative of the Milk Commission may be present throughout, 
and be accommodated at or near the farm in the same way as the 
doctor who makes the test, if the Commission so desires. 

No test will be regarded as satisfactory to the Milk Commission 
unless the temperatures are taken through the eighteenth hour 
after injection. Should the State Department, in state test, feel 
unable to instruct its veterinarian to take temperatures through the 
eighteenth hour, and should he not do so of his own accord, the 
Commission may require a private test later at the expense of the 
owner. 

The farmer for whom the test is made must make sure that a 
chart of each test is furnished to the Milk Commission, to keep on 
file, within a week after the test, whether it be a private or state 
test. The Milk Commission reserves the right to decide what 
cows shall be kept in the herd. 

Any animal suspected of being in bad health must be promptly 
removed from the herd and her milk rejected. No cow whose 
udder is imperfect shall be allowed in the certified herd, nor shall 
the milk from an udder in any way diseased be put in the certified 
milk, as long as any disease exists. Do not allow the cows to be 
excited by hard driving, abuse, loud talking, or any unnecessary 
disturbance. 

Feed. Do not allow any strongly flavoured food, like garlic, to 
be eaten by the cows. 

When ensilage is fed, it must be given in only one feeding 
daily, and that after the morning milking, and the full ration shall 
consist of not more than twenty pounds daily for the average 
sized cow. When fed in the fall small amounts must be given 
and the increase to the full ration must be gradual. 

Corn-stalks must not be fed until after the corn has blossomed, 
and the first feedings must be in small amounts and the increase 
must be gradual. If fed otherwise, ensilage and corn-stalks are 
liable to cause the milk to affect children seriously. 

Cleaning. Groom the entire body of the cow daily. Before 
each milking, wash the udder with a cloth used only for the udders 
and wipe it with a clean dry towel. Never leave the udder wet, 
and be sure that the water and towel used are clean. The tail 
should be kept clean by frequent washing. If the hair on the 
flanks, tail, and udder is clipped close, and the brush on the tail is 
cut short, it will be much easier to keep the cow clean. 

The cows must be kept standing after the cleaning until the 
milking is finished. This may be done by a chain or rope under 
the neck. 

5. The Milkers. The milker must be personally clean. He 



SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 353 

should neither have nor come in contact with any contagious 
disease while employed in handling the milk. In case of any 
illness in the person or family of any employee in the dairy, such 
employee must absent himself from the dairy until a physician 
certifies that it is safe for him to return. 

In order that the Milk Commission may be informed as to the 
health of the employees at the certified farms, the Commission has 
had postal cards printed, to be supplied to the farms and to be 
filled out and returned each week by the owner, manager, or 
physician of the farm, certifying that none are handling the milk 
who are in contact with any contagious disease. 

Before milking, the hands should be washed in warm water 
with soap and nail brush and well dried with a clean towel. On 
no account should the hands be wet during milking. 

The milkers should have light-coloured, washable suits, includ- 
ing caps, and not less than two clean suits weekly. The garments 
should be kept in a clean place protected from dust, when not 
in use. 

Iron milking stools are recommended and they should be kept 
clean. 

Milkers should do their work quietly arid at the same hour 
morning and evening. Jerking the teat increases materially the 
bacterial contamination of the milk and should be forbidden. 

6. Helpers other than Milkers. All persons engaged in the 
stable and dairy should be reliable and intelligent. Children 
under twelve should not be allowed in the stable or dairy during 
milking, since in their ignorance they may do harm, and from 
their liability to contagious diseases they are more apt than older 
persons to transmit them through the milk. 

7. Small Animals. Cats and dogs must be excluded from the 
stables during the time of milking, and fowls at all times. No 
animals allowed in dairy. 

8. The Milk. All milk from cows sixty days before and ten 
days after calving must be rejected. 

The first few streams from each teat should be discarded, in 
order to free the milk ducts from the milk that has remained in 
them for some time and in which the bacteria are sure to have 
multiplied greatly. If any part of the milk is bloody or stringy or 
unnatural in appearance, the whole quantity yielded by that 
animal must be rejected. If any accident occurs in which a pail 
becomes dirty or the milk in the pail becomes dirty, do not try to 
remove the dirt by straining, but put aside the pail and do not use 
the milk for bottling, and use a clean pail. 

Remove the milk of each cow from the stable immediately 
after it is obtained to a clean room and strain through a sterilised 
strainer of cheese-cloth and absorbent cotton. 

2 A 



354 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The rapid cooling is a matter of great importance. The milk 
should be cooled to 45 F. within an hour, and not allowed to rise 
above that as long as it is in the hands of producer or dealer. In 
order to assist in the rapid cooling, the bottles should be cold 
before the milk is put into them. 

Aeration of milk beyond that obtained in milking is unnecessary. 

9. Utensils. All utensils should be as simple in construction as 
possible, and so made that they may be thoroughly sterilised before 
each using. 

Coolers, if used, should be sterilised in a closed steriliser, 
unless a very high temperature can be obtained by the steam sent 
through them. 

Bottling machines should be made entirely of metal, with no 
rubber about them, and should be sterilised in the closed steriliser 
before each milking or bottling. 

If cans are used, all should have smoothly soldered joints, with 
no places to collect the dirt. 

Pails should have openings not exceeding 8 inches in diameter, 
and may be either straight pails or the usual shape with the top 
protected by a hood. 

Bottles should be of the kind known as " common sense " and 
capped with a sterilised, paraffined paper disc and the caps 
authorised by the Commission. 

All dirty utensils, including the bottles, must be thoroughly 
cleansed and sterilised. This can be done by first thoroughly 
rinsing in warm water, then washing with a brush and soap or 
other alkaline cleansing material and hot water and thoroughly 
rinsing. After this cleansing they should be sterilised by boiling, 
or in a closed steriliser with steam, and then kept inverted in a 
place free from dust. 

10. The Dairy. The room or rooms where the utensils are 
washed and sterilised and the milk bottled should be at a distance 
from the house and the barn, so as to lessen the danger of 
transmitting through the milk any disease which may occur in the 
house. 

The bottling room, where the milk is exposed, should be 
so situated that the doors may be entirely closed during the 
bottling and not opened to admit the milk nor to take out the 
filled bottles. 

The empty shipping cases should not be allowed to enter the 
bottling room, nor should the washing of any utensils be allowed in 
the room. 

The workers in the dairy should wear white washable suits, 
including cap, when handling the milk. 

Bottles must be capped as soon as possible, after filling, with 
the sterilised discs. 



SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 355 

11. Examination of the Milk and Dairy Inspection. In order 
that the dealer and the Commission may be kept informed of the 
character of the milk, specimens taken at random will be examined 
weekly by experts for the Commission at the Laboratory of the 
Department of Health, the use of the laboratories having been 
given for that purpose. 

The Commission reserves to itself the right to make inspections 
of certified farms at any time and to take specimens of the milk 
for examination, and to impose fines for repeated or deliberate 
violations of the requirements of the Commission. 

The Commission also reserves the right to change its standards 
in any reasonable manner upon due notice being given to the 
dealers. 

Although the use of certified milk has extended, such milk 
constitutes only a minute fraction of the total supply, even in 
any city in which it is obtainable. It cannot be anticipated 
that milk produced under such rigid control will ever con- 
stitute any considerable part of the general milk supply, since 
it must of necessity be sold at a high price and the poor 
cannot possibly afford to pay for it. It furnishes a pure 
milk for those who can afford it, while it is very valuable for 
special cases, hospitals, and similar institutions. As educa- 
tional agencies Medical Milk Commissions have been and are 
of the greatest value. They show that pure milk can be 
obtained as a commercial article, and, in particular, by showing 
what milk ought to be, their existence is a valuable stimulus 
to the production of a purer general supply. 

III. ENGLISH MILK DEPOTS 

Milk depots for the supply of pure or purified milk are 
of comparatively recent origin. The first two institutions of 
this character appear to have been both established in 1889, 
one in the St. Gertrude district of Hamburg, and the other 
by Koplik at the Good Samaritan Hospital, New York. The 
next to be started was in 1892 by Dr. Variot in connection 
with the Belleville Dispensary in Paris. The first British 
Infant Milk Depot was established by the St. Helens Cor- 
poration in 1899. Since that date a small number of 
additional depots have been started in Great Britain. The 
first depot in London was at Battersea in 1902 under the 
charge of Dr. McCleary. The movement was given a con- 



356 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

siderable impetus by the publication by McCleary of his 
valuable book on Infants' Milk Depots. 

The British milk depots are not all conducted in the same 
way, but the usual plan is for them to be financed and 
controlled by the Municipality. Special premises are provided 
where milk of good quality is received and distributed. 
Before being distributed it is modified chemically and 
sterilised or partially sterilised. It is distributed in sealed 
bottles and sold to the poor at prices which do not pay for 
the cost of provision and preparation. In other words, they 
are usually rate-subsidised agencies for the provision of purified 
and modified milk as an aid to the prevention of infantile 
mortality. Their very existence is a striking condemnation 
of the conditions under which milk is produced and vended in 
crowded urban areas. 

As an illustration of the nature and methods of working 
of a milk depot managed 011 proper lines, and for which the 
records have been most admirably compiled, the following 
particulars of the Woolwich Milk Depot may be given. 1 The 
Depot was opened November 5th, 1906, and closed at the 
end of July 1910. It was thus in active working for only 
three years nine months. The reasons for its closure were 
essentially financial. 

Method of Payment. The milk was not sold by the pint, 
but payment was made according to the age of the infants, 
viz. Is. 6d. per week to children under six months old ; 2s. 
to those six to twelve months ; and 2s. 6d. to those over 
twelve months. 

Character of the Milk. -The milk was modified, using 
various proportions of milk, cream, sugar, and water. Three 
different qualities were prepared. The milk was bottled and 
either pasteurised at 170 F. for fifteen minutes or, in hot 
weather, heated to 212 F. for twenty minutes. The milk 
was obtained from a single farm upon which satisfactory 
hygienic conditions prevailed. The cows were frequently 
examined by veterinary surgeons, and the milk periodically 
chemically analysed, but apparently no bacteriological ex- 
aminations were made. 

Selection of Babies. Only admitted if provided with a 

1 Dr. Davies, Annual Reports, Woolwich, 1907, 1908, 1909. 



XIX 



SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 



357 



doctor's certificate, or after a visit from the woman health 
visitor and pronounced by her to he a suitable case. Only 
those children were admitted to the depot whose mothers 
were unable to suckle them, or who were actually found to be 
wasting on the mother's milk. 

Supervision of the Cases. Homes all visited by the health 
visitor, and visits repeated as found necessary. Children were 
weighed every fortnight as far as possible. 

The Woolwich Depot had one peculiarity. It was the 
only depot which undertook delivery of the milk at the 
customers' homes. An additional charge of 4d. per week was 
made for this. It only paid for about half the cost of 
delivery. 

Financial Cost. 
(Total Capital Expenditure, 662.) 



Annual Cost. 


1907. 


1908. 


1909. 


Expenditure ..... 


962 


960 


958 


Income ...... 


530 


608 


562 


Loss on working expenses 


432 


352 


396 


Loan charges ..... 


68 


66 


64 


Approximate total loss for the year . 


500 


418 


460 



Children Fed, etc. 





1907. 


1908. 


1909. 


Number of infants supplied 


313 


368 


332 


Average number of infants being fed at 








any one time ..... 




116 


110 


Average duration of feeding for each 








infant at the depot .... 


3 months 


5 months 


5 months 


Total number of infants coming on the 








depot during the year .... 
Number of children coming on the depot "1 
during the year, who were unwell when V 
starting depot milk 


313 

176 
(56 per cent) 


245 

130 

(53 per cent) 


217 

82 
(38 per cent) 


Deaths of infants while on depot milk 








(excluding deaths one week after start- 








ing and adding those one week after 








leaving off the milk) .... 


13 


6 


6 


Death-rate of depot children calculated 








by Dr. Davies's method (see below) 




52 per 1000 


52 per 1000 



358 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The population of Woolwich estimated to the middle of 
1909 was 127,993. 

As Sidney Davies (Medical Officer of Health, Woolwich) 
points out, it is difficult to give a milk depot death-rate. Such 
rates are often based upon the rate per 1000 infants fed, but 
are then totally incomparable with normal infantile death- 
rates. The method which Davies suggests as the fairest is 
to take the deaths occurring while children are actually being 
fed at the depot (deducting those dying within a week of 
coming on, and adding deaths occurring within a week of 
going off) and estimate the rate on the average numbers being 
fed at one time. This is the method adopted in calculating 
the death-rates in the table above. During the three years 
(1907-1909) 25 depot-fed children died while on the depot, 
and the death-rate was 81 per 1000. 

The Liverpool Milk Depot is the largest in England. It 
was started in 1901, and since that date to the end of 1909 
16,131 have been fed upon humanised milk supplied either at 
the milk depots (10,171 infants) or through dairies (5960 
infants). The average age at the commencement of such 
feeding was 3|- months. The expenditure for each of the nine 
years varied from 2000 in the first year to 4077 for 1909, 
the income from the sale of the milk varying from 518 in the 
first year of working to 1328 in 1909. The deficit payable 
out of rates for 1909 was 2749. The milk is supplied 
from special farms by contract and is modified and sterilised. 

Of the 10,171 infants supplied through the depots, and 
of whom accurate records are kept, there were 941 cases in 
which the infant died, but of these 75 had been fed on the 
milk for less than one week, or had been irregularly fed on it ; 
713 were ill, some of them hopelessly ill, when the milk was 
first supplied. Each death formed the subject of a careful 
inquiry, and it was found that out of the total numbers of 
infants who died only 179 were fairly healthy at the time of 
admission and had been properly fed since. 1 

At Leicester Dr. Millard has been carrying out an 
interesting modification in Milk Depots by the use of dried 
milk. The depot was originally started on orthodox lines by 
the use of bottled humanised milk, but in 1907 the use of 

1 Dr. Hope, 1909, Annual Report, City of Liverpool. 



xix SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 359 

dried milk was started, and at the end of 1909 about four- 
fifths of all the babies at the depot were being fed on it 
exclusively. In 1911 the use of humanised milk was finally 
abandoned. Millard finds that dried milk has the great ad- 
vantage of being more digestible, and many infants who are 
unable to keep down fresh milk easily retain dried milk. 
Owing to its convenience it is very popular with the mothers, 
and the average number of infants treated has steadily risen 
from 102 in 1907, 195 in 1908, 216 in 1909, to 274 in 
1910. 

The practice at the depot is to regulate the richness of 
the milk as follows : For infants under two months old, half 
cream milk ; for infants between two and six months, three- 
quarters cream ; for infants over six months old, full cream. 
In each case the milk is slightly sweetened by the addition 
to the dried milk of 10 per cent of castor sugar. These 
mixtures are retailed at 8d., 10d., and Is. per lb., and at 
this price it costs about the same to feed an infant as if fresh 
cows' milk were purchased from a dairy. The dried milk is 
said to keep good for months and does not 'turn sour. By 
the use of dried milk the depot can be run at much less expense, 
the bottles and their cleaning being a very heavy item in the 
ordinary depot. For the financial year ending March 1910 
the receipts were 868, the expenses 979, and the deficiency 
111, of which 25 was a contribution towards the salary of 
the health visitor. For 1910 the excess of expenditure over 
receipts was only 43. 

Milk depots should have a much wider function than 
merely to distribute pure milk. If used at all they should 
be one part, but strictly a part only, of the system of muni- 
cipal surveillance of infant feeding and treatment which is 
one of the latest and most valuable developments of public 
work. 

Sir G. Newman l has laid down four dicta as to the func- 
tions and proper management of a milk depot with which 
most persons who have studied the matter will agree. They 
are : 

1. The supply of milk from these depots should be 
restricted absolutely to children who cannot be breast fed. 

1 Proceedings Infantile Mortality Conference, 1906, p. 90. 



360 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

2. They are to be used in association with regular medical 
supervision of the infants. 

3. The depots should be worked in conjunction with 
careful home visitation either by a doctor, lady visitor, or 
experienced hospital nurse. It is a matter of the greatest 
importance in respect of the work of a milk depot to take 
means to increase maternal responsibility. 

4. The control of the milk should begin at the farm, 
instead of having the milk brought into the town in bulk and 
then sterilised and treated. Whatever modifications milk is 
to pass through, whatever manipulations it is to receive, 
it should receive immediately after milking at the farm. 
Newman, however, admits that this is not always possible. 

A fifth but less important point is 

5. The milk should be sold at market prices; only the 
expenses of the depot itself, that is, the expense of the 
management and distribution, should fall on the rates. The 
children who come to the depot and are too poor to pay the 
necessary market price, which will range from Is. 6d. to 2s. per 
week, should be supplied with tickets through the Poor Law 
under the form of outdoor relief. 

The figures and facts collected in regard to infants fed at 
these depots show that these institutions have played an im- 
portant part in the reduction of infant mortality in the areas 
in which they have been operative. It is not possible 
to determine the relative value which the pure milk itself, 
and the additional care and advice bestowed upon the 
infants, have respectively played in the reduction of infant 
mortality and morbidity. Both no doubt have been valuable 
factors. 

Used in conjunction with other efforts to minimise 
maternal neglect and ignorance and to foster maternal 
responsibility, milk depots have their place in the armament 
of preventive measures, but at their best they can play a small 
part only in the problem. They are in no way a substitute 
for a general pure milk supply, and while in some places very 
valuable, they are more or less temporary expedients not to be 
recommended for wholesale adoption. If they are merely 
used to supply sterilised milk at a price below the cost of 
production, because subsidised out of the rates, to all who are 



xix SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 361 

willing to pay for it, and without any supervision, they are 
most unsatisfactory. 

IV. THE SCORE-CARD SYSTEM 

This system of recording the results of dairy and cow- 
shed inspections is a system of American origin, which has 
greatly extended in America of recent years. It was first in- 
troduced and used in 1904 by Dr. W. C. Woodward, Health 
Officer of the District of Columbia. A little later Professor 
K. A. Pearson, of Cornell University, introduced a somewhat 
different form of score -card. The Dairy Division of the 
Bureau of Animal Industry took up its use and extended it. 
At the third meeting of the Official Dairy Instructors' Asso- 
ciation, July 1908, the committee presented the score-card in 
a new form, embodying, as far as possible, the criticisms sub- 
mitted by the heads of the various dairy departments. This 
card, with a few minor changes, was adopted by the associa- 
tion and by the Dairy Division of the Bureau of Animal 
Industry. This card, 1 which is reproduced on pages 362, 363, 
may therefore be considered the standard and best type of 
card so far evolved. Size of card, 8x5 inches. 

As Lane and Whitaker point out, a valuable feature of the 
card is the separation of dairy conditions into equipment and 
methods. The score for equipment indicates the quality and 
sufficiency of the tools the dairyman has to work with, while 
the score for methods gives an accurate idea of the way the 
dairyman uses his equipment, and indicates whether he is 
practising right methods. 

The card is arranged with separate columns, for " Equipment " 
and "Methods," and allows a total of 40 and 60 points, respect- 
ively, for each. This arrangement of points is made for the 
purpose of emphasising the importance of good methods, and giving 
unmistakable credit for cleanliness. A person may be handicapped 
by poor buildings which he has inherited or leased, and which he 
cannot afford to rebuild ; but he can be clean. Painstaking methods, 
particularly in regard to cleanliness, will give a creditable score in 
spite of poor equipment. 

1 I am greatly indebted to Mr. G. M. Whitaker, of the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture, for permission to reproduce this card, for copies of it, and for other 
information, particularly Circular 139, issued April 1909, by C. B. Lane and 
G. M. Whitaker, upon "The Score-card System of Dairy Inspection." 



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, 

BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY, 
DAIRY DIVISION. 



SANITARY INSPECTION OF DAIRIES. 



DAIRY SCORE CARD. 

Adopted by the Official Dairy Instructors' Association. 

Owner or lessee of farm.... 

P.O. address . State 

Total number of cows Number milking 

Gallons of milk produced daily 

Product is retailed by producer in 

Sold at wholesale to 

For milk supply of 

Permit Xo..... ..Date of inspection , 191 

REMARKS.. . . 



(Signed) 

Inspector. 
[Front of Card,] 



DETAILED SCORE. 





SC 


ORE. 




SC 


ORE. 




Perfect. 


Allowed. 




Perfect. 


Allowed. 


cows. 
Health 







cows. 
Cleanliness of cows. . . . 


8 




Apparently in good health 1 
If tested with tuberculin once a 






STABLES. 

Cleanliness of stables 


6 




found, or if tested once in six 
months and all reacting ani- 
mals removed 5 






Floor 2 
Walls 1 
Ceiling and ledges 1 






(If tested only once a year and re- 
acting animals found and removed, 
2.) 






Mangers and partitions 1 
Windows 1 






Comfort 


9 




Stable air (dust and odours) at milk- 






Beddino- 1 






ing time 


6 




Temperature of stable 1 
Food (clean and wholesome) 


9 




Barnyard clean and well drained.. . . 
Removal of manure daily to field or 


2 




Water 


9 




proper pit 


2 




Clean and fresh 1 
Convenient and abundant 1 






(To 50 feet Irom stable, 1.) 

MILK ROOM. 












Cleanliness of milk room. 


3 




STABLES. 

Location of stable 


2 




UTENSILS AND MILKING. 






Well drained 1 
Free from contaminating sur- 
roundings . 1 






Care and cleanliness of utensils 
Thoroughly washed and steril- 


8 




Construction of stable 


4. 




utes 5 






Tight, sound floor and proper 
gutter. 2 






(Thoroughly washed and placed 
over steam jet, 4 ; thoroughly 






Smooth, tight walls and ceiling 1 
Proper stall, tie, and manger. . . 1 
Means of lighting : Four sq. ft. of 






washed and scalded with boiling 
water, 3 ; thoroughly washed, not 
scalded, 2.) 
Inverted in pure air. . . 3 






glass per cow 


4 










(Three sq. ft., 3 ; 2 sq. ft., 2 ; 1 sq. 
ft., 1. Deduct for uneven distribu- 
tion.) 
Ventilation : Automatic system 


3 




Cleanliness of milking 
Clean, dry hands 3 
Udders washed and dried 6 






Adjustable windows 1 
Cubic feet of space for cow : 500 to 
1000 feet 


3 




4 ; cleaned with dry cloth at least 
15 minutes before milking, 1.) 






(Less than 500 feet, 2 ; less than 
400 feet, 1 ; less than 300 feet, ; 
over 1000 feet ) 






HANDLING THE MILK. 

Cleanliness of attendants in milk 
room . . 


1 




UTENSILS. 






Milk removed immediately from 
stable 


2 




Construction and condition of uten- 
sils 
Water for cleaning 


1 

1 




Prompt cooling (cooled immedi- 
ately after milking each cow) .... 


2 




(Clean, convenient, and abundant.) 
Small-top milking pail 


3 




(51 to 55, 4; 56 to 60, 2.) 


3 




Facilities for hot water or steam .... 
(Should be in milk house, not in 
kitchen.) 
Milk cooler. 


1 




(51 to 55, 2 ; 56 to 60, 1.) 
Transportation ; iced in summer.. . . 
(For jacket or wet blanket, allow 


3 




Clean milkin^ suits 












MILK ROOM. 

Location of milk room 


2 










Free from contaminating sur- 
roundings 1 
Convenient 1 
Construction of milk room 
Floors, walls, and ceilin" 1 


2 










Light, ventilation, screens 1 












Total 


40 




Total 


60 

















Equipment 



+ Methods.... ...= .. Final Score, 



NOTE 1. If any filthy condition is found, particularly dirty utensils, the total score shall be limited to 49. 
NOTE 2. If the water is exposed to dangerous contamination, or -there is evidence of the presence of 
dangerous disease in animals or attendants, the score shall be 0. 



[Back of Card.] 



364 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The Bureau of Animal Industry, U.S.A. (Dairy Division), 
gives the following advantages for the score-card system : 

1. Provides the health officer with a permanent, accurate, 
and convenient record of all his dairies. 

2. May be used as a basis for issuing permits to sell milk. 
A number of cities have set standards of 50 to 60 points, 
which every dairyman must reach before a permit is issued. 
This forces the poorer dairies to improve or go out of business, 
as they are given only a limited time to comply with the 
demands of the board of health. 

3. Serves as a check upon the w T ork of the inspectors. 

4. Information as to the conditions in the dairies can be 
tabulated, and by the publication of the scores at intervals 
every dairyman is given credit for every effort he has made to 
produce clean milk. 

One of the great hindrances to improvement is that milk 
from good dairies and poor dairies practically all sells for the 
same price. Publication of scores goes a long way toward 
correcting this state of affairs. Customers who take an in- 
terest in their milk supply are not slow to note the standing 
of the dairies, and frequently select one that rates well, even 
though the price of the milk may be a little higher. Naturally 
this encourages the dairyman who is trying to do things right, 
and discounts the dirty and slovenly dairyman. 

5. Is a valuable means of improving dairy conditions. 
Where it has been introduced it generally results in marked 
improvements being effected. 

6. Is of great value to the inspector in pointing out con- 
ditions and making it impossible for him to overlook any 
point of importance. 

7. Is of value to the milk dealer in assisting him to locate 
the better dairies, thus making it easier to secure a supply 
of milk to meet the demand made upon him for a good 
product. 

The score-card system, in its application to this country, 
must be considered from two points of view (a) As an 
administrative agency without publication of the scores ; (6) 
as an administrative agency with publication of the scores. 

() As a means of administratively recording the condition 
of cow-sheds and dairies, keeping the inspectors up to their 



SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 365 

work, and ensuring that essential details are not overlooked, 
score-cards are most useful. Indeed their chief difference from 
the forms of recording used in the better-administered districts 
in this country is in the fact that numerical scores are given 
for each condition, instead of the results of the inspection being 
embodied in writing. The numerical score method is advan- 
tageous, but from its very facility is liable to error on the part 
of an incompetent or careless inspector. Also, unless all the 
inspections are carried out by the one man, scores will not be 
strictly comparable, as standards of efficiency vary greatly. 
On the whole, however, the use .of score -cards as an ad- 
ministrative method of marking and recording the condition 
of dairies is to be strongly recommended. 

(5) The distinctive and essential feature of the American 
score-card is really its publication (however carried out), 
and most of the improvements which have been effected 
by its use appear to be due to the stimulus of publication. 
The farmer improves his cow-sheds and his methods because 
low marks are prejudicial to him commercially. Eastwood, 1 
who studied the system at work in America, writes, in refer- 
ence to the system in Ithaca : 

The scores are published periodically in the local paper, are 
keenly discussed, and stimulate the rivalry of the farmers. The 
prospect of scoring more marks will induce a farmer to keep his 
cows clean, clip the hair about the udder, and attend to other 
details, far more effectively than discussions of bacterial content or 
the general requirements of a pure milk supply. The special 
feature of the system is that it stimulates improvement by voluntary 
enterprise and without resort to coercion. When the inspector 
knows his business, and gains the confidence of the farmer, he 
rarely has to resort to the threat that the licence will be withdrawn 
unless improvements are effected. The farmer endeavours to reform 
because a bigger score means an increase of his reputation amongst 
his neighbours, and a possible expansion of his custom. 

The publicity of the marks scored is, however, alien to the 
way public health work is carried out in this country. The 
whole framework of our administrative work is based upon the 
fact that the results of inspections, etc., are private between the 
inspector, his superior officers, and his authority, and only 

1 Report to the Local Government Board, 1909, p. 72. 



366 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

become public, and that to but a limited degree, when coercive 
measures are demanded and sanctioned by law. If English 
inspectors were to work on the basis of their findings being, 
public property it would cause much resentment and fric- 
tion, as well as restriction of sources of information now 
available. 

The principle of the publication of the individual scores 
has much to commend it, and the result would doubtless be 
very beneficial in effecting marked improvement in present 
milk conditions, but it is extremely doubtful whether it will 
be possible, or even politic, to introduce what amounts to a 
drastic alteration in the basis upon which public health 
administrative work is carried out in this country. The 
publication of scores might also render the local authorities 
liable to legal actions if they published particulars of score- 
cards which were inaccurate. 

V. SPECIAL AMERICAN, ETC., EEGULATIONS 

American city regulations for the control of milk are, in 
general, much more drastic and stringent than those in force 
in this country. The fundamental basis upon which they are 
worked is the permit system, and while the actual regulations 
vary considerably, underlying them all, as Eastwood l points 
out 

There is the general principle that the local authority 1ms the 
right and the duty of defining the conditions under which milk 
may be sold without danger to the public health, and of prohibiting 
the sale, within the area over which it holds authority, of milk not 
satisfying these requirements. As these requirements include pro- 
visions that the milk, from its source to its destination, shall not be 
exposed to conditions liable to render it unwholesome as food, a 
powerful control is indirectly exercised upon the producer living 
outside the district, since he cannot obtain a market within the 
district for milk not satisfying the local regulations as regards its 
production and handling. 

The actual regulations made may not be, and frequently 
are not, more stringent than those which may be obtained and 
enforced in this country under the Dairies, Cow-sheds, and 
Milk-shops Orders. The difference is the added power given 

1 Report to Local Government Board, 1909, p. 28. 



SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 367 

to enforce them by the system of permits, which may be 
withdrawn if the regulations are not properly complied with. 

The Chicago regulations, for example, contain the follow- 
ing, in regard to licences for milk-sellers : 

Rule 2. Inspection and Investigation of previous Record. No appli- 
cation for licence shall be approved by the Commissioner of Health 
after May 1, 1908, if the records of the milk division show that the 
depot, store, or any part of the establishment in which the business 
is to be conducted is in an insanitary condition. If the applicant's 
record is not on the file in the office, or if he is newly engaging in the 
milk business, an inspection of his place shall be made within five 
days after making the application, to determine the sanitary con- 
ditions. No application for licence shall be approved if applicant 
has a bad record. The applicant, if refused a licence on account of 
bad sanitary conditions, or for repeated adulterations of milk and 
cream, may make application to the Commissioner of Health for a 
hearing. The Commissioner of Health may then recommend the 
applicant for a licence, if he is satisfied that the regulations of the 
department will be complied with in the future. 

Rule 3. Revoking of Licence. If at any time after the granting 
of such licence the holder fails to comply with the sanitary regula- 
tions of the department, or repeatedly sells or offers for sale, or has 
in his possession for the purpose of selling, milk and cream below 
the grade prescribed by the ordinances or rules of the Department 
of Health, the Chief Food Inspector shall recommend to the Com- 
missioner of Health that his licence be revoked with or without 
further notice. Said Commissioner of Health may grant the 
defendant a hearing, if he deems this necessary. 

Rule 4. Re-issuing of Revoked Licence. If all the regulations of 
the department have been complied with the Commissioner of 
Health may recommend that the licence be re-issued. 

Rule 5. Licence Exhibited. Every milk dealer shall post his 
licence in a conspicuous place on the premises for which it has been 
issued. 

Taking Chicago as an illustration, while the regulations as 
to the care of the milk in the city are not strikingly different 
from those in force in this country, considerably greater power 
than is permitted in England is exercised over the entrance 
of unclean milk into the city from farms outside the city 
area. Very similar regulations are in force in other American 
cities. As Eastwood and others have pointed out, it has 
not been always possible to compel compliance with all the 
regulations enacted, and sometimes the actual regulations 



368 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

enforced are considerably less than those which on paper are 
operative. 

It cannot, however, be doubted that the permit principle, 
with revocation of licence if unsatisfactory, is a powerful lever 
for bettering the present-day milk conditions. An annual 
charge should be made for the licences, and this and other fees 
would be available to balance or at least diminish the cost 
of milk-inspection and bacteriological examination. 

The most extreme example of municipal control over the 
milk supply with which the writer is acquainted is in con- 
nection with the city of Wellington, New Zealand, a city with 
a population of 76,390. The powers available are contained 
in the Wellington City Milk-supply Act of 1910. This Act 
is the outcome of a valuable report in 1909 by Dr. Frengley, 
the city District Health Officer, and to whom the writer is 
indebted for copies of the Eeport and Act. At the time of 
writing, the powers given in the Act were about to be 
exercised. The Act gives, among other things, the following 
powers : 

1. Power to the City Council to establish within or adjacent to 
the city a milk-station for testing, treating, and distributing the 
milk supply of the city. 

2. To buy and sell milk, and to sell cream, and to manufacture 
and sell butter and other milk products, and ice. 

3. Generally to carry on the business of a dealer in milk and 
butter. 

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act relating to milk brought 
into the city by road, it shall not be lawful, so long as such milk- 
station is available for testing milk, to receive for storage or for 
sale, sell, offer, or expose for sale in the city, milk which has not 
been tested and passed at such milk-station. 

Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, milk may, 
while a milk-station is available as aforesaid, be brought into the 
city by road and there sold subject to the following conditions : 
(a) That such milk is delivered to the consumer within four 
hours from the termination of the time of milking : 

Provided that during the period in any year com- 
mencing on the fifteenth day of March and ending on the 
thirtieth day of November, where sufficient and suitable 
means of storage are available on the milking-premises, the 
milk collected at the evening milking may be delivered to 
the consumer within four hours from the time of being 
removed from such storage, being in no case later than 



SPECIAL PURE MILK METHODS 369 

four hours after the time within which the milk collected 
at the next succeeding morning milking is required to be 
removed : 

(6) That any person supplying milk as set forth in subsection 
(a) hereof shall keep an exact record of the milk obtained 
by him at his dairy, and of the milk sold by him in the 
city, and shall from time to time furnish to the Council 
returns in the prescribed manner and form, verified by a 
statutory declaration, showing how much milk he has 
from time to time sold : 

(c) That any person so supplying milk shall from time to time, 

and not less than once in any week, furnish samples of 
milk to the milk-station, or to an inspector for testing at 
the milk-station : 

(d) That no person shall sell milk in the city pursuant to the 

provisions of this section unless he is the holder of a 
licence granted for that purpose under by-laws made by 
the Council. 

5. (1) No milk shall be passed at the milk-station which does 
not come within the definition of or reach the standard prescribed 
by the regulations made under the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 
1908. 

(2) If any milk tested be found by the responsible officer in 
charge of the milk-station to be unfit for human consumption it 
shall be destroyed or disposed of as the Council may think fit, but 
no such milk shall be sold or used for human consumption. 

(3) If, on testing, any milk shall be found not to reach the 
specified standard, but to be in no other way unfit for human con- 
sumption, it shall, be separated. The cream shall be the property 
of the owner of the milk, and the balance of the milk shall be 
destroyed or disposed of as the Council shall think fit : 

Provided that, in the absence of evidence of skimming or 
watering, any milk in which the percentage of butter-fat is found to 
be less than three point twenty-five, but not less than three, may be 
delivered by the responsible officer in charge of the milk-station to 
the vendor, if accompanied by a written statement giving the actual 
percentage of butter-fat found. 

6. The Council may, subject to the approval of the Minister of 
Public Health, fix fees and charges for testing the milk, bottling, 
storage, etc. 

Geographical considerations allow the milk -station to be 
in such a position as to capture all the milk on its way to 
the city. This would be a difficult matter for many English 
cities. 

Dr. Frengley estimates that the municipal milk-station 

2B 



370 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CH.XIX 

will safeguard the chemical composition, and freedom from 
preservatives, ensure clean milk only being sent into the city, 
prevent initially insufficiently cooled milk being sent into the 
city, enable outbreaks of milk-borne infectious diseases to be 
traced, and ensure that only milk certified as to standard and 
quality shall be distributed to milk-vendors or householders. 



CHAPTER XX 

ARTIFICIAL METHODS FOR THE PRESERVATION OF MILK 

IT is a matter of common knowledge that milk will not keep 
fresh for any length of time. Scientifically this has been 
shown to be due to the fact that milk (as has been abundantly 
demonstrated in earlier chapters), as produced at the present 
day, is heavily contaminated with bacteria, and that such 
bacteria multiply rapidly in milk. The products of the 
bacteria spoil the milk. Added to this we have the fact that 
under modern conditions some delay is inevitable between 
the collection of the milk and its consumption, and in 
the case of large cities this interval may have to be many 
hours. 

The utility if not the necessity of using some artificial 
method for the preservation of milk is therefore widely 
recognised. All such methods may be included in the 
following groups : 

I. Refrigeration. 

II. Sterilisation. 

III. Pasteurisation. 

IV. Addition of chemical preservatives. 
V. Condensation and drying. 

Each procedure requires to be considered from the following 
points of view : 

(a) Its efficiency to attain the object aimed at. 

(6) Any prejudicial effect upon the milk as an article of 

human food, 
(c) Its influence upon the price at which the milk can 

be supplied. 



372 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

I. BEFRIGERATION 

The scientific facts which bear upon this question have 
been discussed in Chapter IV. In that chapter it was shown 
that at temperatures ranging from freezing to blood-heat the 
higher the temperature of the milk the more rapid the 
multiplication of the contained bacteria. It may be concluded 
from the figures there given that if samples are kept at C. 
for reasonable periods (i.e. not more than forty-eight hours) no 
increase in the number of bacteria takes place. Even if 
kept at 10 C. no marked increase takes place within twenty- 
four hours. Refrigeration can therefore be made efficient. 

There is further no evidence that any prejudicial effects 
upoii*the digestive properties of the milk result by refrigeration. 

Cooling the milk even to C. does not diminish any 
bacterial harmfulness it may possess ; it will not, for example, 
injure pathogenic bacteria ; but it prevents the increase of 
toxic properties by preventing the multiplication of bacteria 
already present and the production of their toxic products. 
It is obvious, therefore, that the place of cooling should be at 
the farm and not when it reaches the purveyor. The latter 
may have to cool the milk for his own protection, but he is 
merely preserving what may already be a damaged product 
from deteriorating still further. 

The cost will depend upon the facilities for obtaining ice,, 
the degree of cooling required, etc. Types of milk coolers are 
described on pages 288 and 289. 

As regards the cooling of milk as a method of artificial 
preservation, summing up the matter, it may be said that it is 
efficient and harmless and by far the best available method. 
The degree of efficiency attained will depend upon the tem- 
perature adopted. For practical purposes 10 C. is a convenient 
temperature and one sufficiently efficient. The extent to which 
it can be used need only be governed by the question of cost 
and its influence upon the price of the vended article. 

II. STERILISATION 

The term " sterilised milk " has two meanings, the 
scientific and the meaning of the trade. To the bacteriologist 
sterilised milk means milk which is sterile, that is, free from 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 373 

bacteria or their spores. As used in the milk trade 
" sterilised milk " means milk which has been heated to a 
temperature which it is hoped has killed the bacteria present. 
Like so many trade expressions it does not mean what it says, 
or if it purports to mean it, it is not true. 

Bacteriologically sterile milk can be obtained, indeed it is 
obtained every day in the bacteriological laboratory, but to 
obtain it means either heating the milk to a temperature 
above boiling-point sufficient to kill all spores within the time 
of exposure, or keeping it at 100 0. for short periods on several 
successive days. Neither of these procedures is applicable for 
trade purposes since the appearance and taste of the milk are 
thereby adversely affected. Indeed, the man who would sterilise 
milk commercially has a difficult problem to solve, since the 
heat which is to kill the bacterial life must yet be insufficient 
to alter materially the taste and appearance of the milk. 1 The 
latter usually is attained at the expense of the former, and 
" sterilised milk " which is sterile is a rarity. This fact has 
been demonstrated by a number of investigators who have 
studied commercial "sterilised milk." For example, Fliigge's 2 
work led him to the conclusion that most of the so-called 
sterilised milk on the market was not sterile. He divided the 
bacteria isolated by him into three groups ; and to one group, 
which he called the peptonising bacilli, he ascribed prejudicial 
effects, since they caused diarrhoea when fed in milk to young 
dogs, and were pathogenic to mice, guinea-pigs, and rabbits 
when injected subcutaneously or intraperitoneally. His results 
as to the pathogenic properties of these heat-resisting organisms 
have not been confirmed by other investigators. 

Weber 3 examined 150 samples of sterilised milk from 
Berlin shops and found only 54 per cent sterile. Although 
he isolated and described eighteen species of " peptonising " 
bacilli he could not confirm Fliigge's feeding experiments, and 
only considered this group as possibly harmful by setting up 
fermentative changes in the milk. 

1 His problem is analogous to that of the manager of a sewage farm who has 
to treat the sewage on the land to purify it, while at the same time he is 
supposed to farm the land profitably and take off good crops. Subordination 
of the sanitary to the commercial usually results in both cases. 

2 Zeit.f. Hygiene, 1894, vol. xvii. p. 272. 

3 Arbeit, a. d. Kaiserl. Gesutidheitsamte, 1900, vol. xvii. 



374 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The writer l in 1902 examined 3 3 samples of " sterilised 
milk " bought in Cardiff dairies and found only 17 (or 51 per 
cent) sterile. 

Eobertson and Mair 2 examined milk sterilised in bottles 
and supplied to infants by the Leith Corporation from the 
Infant Milk Depot. They examined 90 samples, finding 
only 14 (or 15 per cent) sterile. They concluded that the 
reliability and safety of the milk depended largely upon the 
temperature at which it was kept afterwards. 

Lubenau 3 concluded that the Bacillus peptonificans was the 
cause of an epidemic of gastro-enteritis, but the evidence he 
adduces is most inconclusive. In ordinary milk this group of 
bacilli are present, but are overgrown by the ordinary lactic 
acid bacilli. 

The bacteria left in boiled milk are of two classes 
anaerobic and aerobic spore-bearing bacilli. From the evidence 
it would appear that no very harmful effects are to be antici- 
pated from these groups of bacilli, if boiled, or commercially 
sterilised, milk is consumed within a reasonable period of pre- 
paration, or if kept cooled meanwhile. Certainly all sterilised 
milk should have the date on which it is prepared stamped 
upon it. It must also be put up in bottles with proper 
stoppers. For practical purposes it is necessary for the 
stopper to be attached to the bottle, otherwise it is certain 
to be lost, while a fresh rubber ring should be used each time. 
Fig. 33, p. 296, illustrates the ordinary type of bottle or stopper 
used. 

Ordinary domestic boiling of milk is allied to commercial 
sterilisation, and may conveniently be studied here. Here the 
temperature does not reach 100 C., indeed it rarely exceeds 
97 C. owing to the milk "boiling" and frothing over when 
that temperature is reached. 

As regards the efficiency of domestic boiling of milk to 
kill pathogenic bacteria, it would appear, from a consideration 
of the thermal death-points in Chapter IV., that it may be 
relied upon to kill pathogenic bacteria, including B. tuberculosis, 
particularly if the heating up be done slowly. It is a pro- 

1 Annual Report 1902, Cardiff and County Public Health Laboratory. 
2 British Medical Journal, 1904, vol. i. p. 1122. 
3 Centralbl.f. Bakt., Abt. Orig. I. xl. p. 433. 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 375 

cedure, therefore, which makes the milk bacterially safe to 
consume. 

There is, however, another and a very important side of 
the problem which is still a very debatable one. This is a 
chemical and physical matter, and may be put in the form of 
the question, Is cooked milk inferior to raw milk as regards 
digestibility and nutritive properties, and is it liable to cause 
or lead to human disease because it has been boiled ? 

The Changes ivhich occur when Milk is heated. The actual 
changes which occur are influenced by two factors the dura- 
tion of the exposure to heating and the actual temperature 
attained. When milk is boiled the following are the essential 
changes which result. A skin forms on the surface when the 
heating is done in an open vessel, the pellicle consisting mainly 
of lact-albumen. Its formation commences at a temperature 
between 60 and 70 C. This surface pellicle does not form 
if the milk is heated in a closed vessel. Carbonic acid gas is 
expelled, and the calcium and magnesium salts are precipitated. 
The precipitation of the calcium salts makes the casein in the 
milk less easily coagulated by rennet. The lecithin and 
nuclein are also said to be decomposed. The normal emulsion 
of the fat globules is disturbed so that the cream does not rise. 
The lactose is partially burnt (caramelisation), the milk becom- 
ing brownish in colour. The milk acquires a peculiar taste, 
which is marked in boiled milk, especially if carried out in an 
open vessel, but which is also noticeable in milk heated to 
70 C. Boiling also kills the ferments in the milk. 

According to Kastle the ferments in milk, or most of them, 
can withstand a temperature ranging from 60 to 65 C. for 
some time without material injury. Between 65 and 70 C. 
most of them are weakened in their activity, and between 70 
to 80 C. all of them are destroyed even after relatively short 
exposure. In addition to these changes the germicidal power 
of the milk is lost, or almost completely so, by boiling. The 
essential bacterial change is that almost all the bacteria are 
destroyed, those left consisting entirely of sporing forms and 
certain highly resistant varieties. 

The effects of these by no means inconsiderable changes 
produced by heat have been much discussed as regards their 
influence upon the milk as a food for infants. 



376 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

The subject has been submitted to direct experiment. A 
considerable number of animal experiments have been carried 
out, but since deductions from them to human feeding cannot be 
accepted as altogether reliable, too much stress cannot be laid 
upon them. On the whole they show no evident differences 
as regards digestibility and nutritive value between raw and 
cooked milk. As illustrating the kind of investigations made 
the following may be mentioned. 

Briining l used litters of newly-born animals, feeding part 
with raw and part with boiled milk. When the milk of 
another species was used better results were obtained with 
boiled than with raw milk, but when the animals were fed on 
raw milk of their own species they did better than those 
receiving it cooked. He experimented with pigs, dogs, rabbits, 
guinea-pigs, and goats. 

Laiie-Claypole ' 2 experimented with young rats, starting 
her experiments with these animals when they were, as nearly 
as possible, a fortnight old. Her careful investigations showed 
no diminution in nutritive properties for rats when the milk 
was boiled, or even when evaporated and dried at 120 C. 

Some experiments have also been carried out on compara- 
tive lines witli children. Koplik, for example, fed infants 
with raw and cooked milk, estimating the nitrogen in the 
faeces. He apparently did not also estimate the nitrogen in 
the urine. On the whole his experiments showed that the 
percentage amount of nitrogen unabsorbed was practically the 
same whether the milk was pasteurised or sterilised, but that 
the percentage unabsorbed was rather less with raw milk. 
Finkelstein 3 carried out experiments with healthy infants, on 
sick children, and on small ill-developed children. He found 
no superiority for either raw or cooked milk, since neither the 
progress of the healthy children nor the recovery of the sick 
were apparently influenced by the kind of milk. 

From the clinical point of view, results being based upon 
the general development of the infants and not upon exact 
chemical data, very diverse opinions have been expressed. On 
the whole, it would appear, taking all the facts into considera- 

1 Zcit.fur Tiermed., 1906, pp. 198, 277. 

2 Journ. of Hygiene, 1909, ix. p. 233. 

:) Therap. Monats., October 1907, p. 508. 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 377 

tion, that there is no satisfactory evidence to show that cooked 
milk is either less easily digested or less easily absorbed from 
the intestine than raw milk. The loss of nutritive value by 
heating is also negligible. 

In addition to nutritive and digestive alterations it has 
frequently been contended that boiling or otherwise cooking 
milk deprives it of its antiscorbutic properties, and that such 
milk is a cause of infantile scurvy, rickets, and other conditions 
of mal-nutrition. 

It is difficult to find definite evidence in favour of such an 
assumption, and the case seems to mainly rest upon rather 
vague assertions based upon clinical experience which is not 
submitted in any concrete form. On the other hand, the 
opponents of any such connection are able to point to an 
immense number of children systematically fed on sterilised 
milk without any prejudicial effect being detectable. For 
instance, at the dispensary of La G-outte de Lait de Belleville 
a very large number of infants have systematically been fed 
upon sterilised milk under Variot, and he is entirely in favour 
of the view that the nutritive and assimilative properties are 
not appreciably affected, while no cases of rickets or infantile 
scurvy have been observed. 

Since boiled milk is deprived of its ferments it may be 
prejudicial if used as the sole form of food for infants, but this 
has yet to be proved, and at the most is only likely to be true 
of sterilised milk kept for some time. In the absence of 
proof to the contrary it would seem that there is no detrimental 
effect likely to be manifested in infants fed on cooked milk 
either as regards diminution of nutrition or the development 
of disease, while the safety conferred by such a procedure from 
the elimination of possibly dangerous bacteria is very great. 

HI. PASTEURISATION 

There has been a good deal of discussion as to the efficacy 
of pasteurisation, much of which has arisen from the lack -of 
definition as to what is meant by the term, processes differing 
considerably in their practical results all being included as 
pasteurisation processes. 

Pasteurisation dates from some experiments of Pasteur 



378 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

upon the diseases of wine and beer, and the temperature of 
heating necessary to preserve them from abnormal fermentation. 
Soxhlet in 1886 advocated the application of the same 
principles to milk. The term, as practically applied to milk, 
is taken to mean the heating of milk for a limited period, 
to a temperature short of the boiling-point. The temperature 
advocated has never been below 60 C. and has been as 
high as 90 C., and the time for heating has varied from so 
short a period as one to two minutes to as long as one hour. 

In view of this looseness of meaning it is well to define 
exactly what is meant when the term " pasteurisation " is used. 

The best temperature and exposure time for pasteurisation 
can only be arrived at when the exact objects of the process 
are considered. Pasteurisation is, or should be, a makeshift 
arrangement, to render milk which has been or which may 
have been bacterially polluted, safe for consumption, while at 
the same time not depriving it of any of its valuable properties. 
Put scientifically it means that the temperature of the milk, 
and the period during which it is maintained at that tempera- 
ture, must be, on the one hand, sufficient to kill all harmful 
organisms which may possibly be present, while, on the 
other hand, the heating must not damage the milk as a food. 

Two types of pasteurisers are on the market. In the 
one continuous -flow (or flasli) pasteurisers the rnilk is 
heated to a certain temperature but only for a moment ; while 
in the other retainer pasteurisers the milk is heated to a 
lower temperature, but is kept at that temperature for a 
definite and much longer period, for example 30 minutes. 

Of the two types of pasteurisers the " retainer " type would 
seem to be the best from the hygienic point of view, while 
the continuous-flow or flash pasteuriser is the more convenient 
for trade purposes, since it allows a greater quantity of milk 
to be treated in a given time than in the other kind. 

Ayers and Johnson from their work conclude : 

The "holder" process of pasteurisation is superior to the 
" flash " process. With the " holder " process a high efficiency 
may be obtained with a low temperature, while to obtain the same 
efficiency with the " flash " process a high temperature would be 
required. A temperature of 62'8 C. (145 F.) for thirty minutes 
seems best adapted for pasteurisation. 



XX 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 



379 



In Fig. 35 is shown an illustration of a good type of 
pasteuriser of the retainer pattern. 

The thermal death-points of the different bacteria likely 
to be present in milk are considered in Chapter IV. The 
tubercle bacillus is the most important organism to kill, and 




FIG. 35. "Retainer" type of Pasteuriser. 

being more resistant than the others, the temperature 
and time exposure which will kill this bacillus may be taken 
as the standards for practical purposes. From the experiments 
recorded in Chapter IV. it would seem that an exposure to 
71 C. (160 F.) for one minute or to 60 C. (140 F.) for 
20 minutes is sufficient. Since, however, as pointed out in 



38o MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

that chapter, there is not complete agreement as to these 
thermal death-points it is better to err on the safe side, and 
for practical working higher temperatures are recommended. 
Temperatures of 77 C. (for continuous-flow pasteurisers) and 
65 C. for 20 minutes are probably safe temperatures. 

The Danish law (Appendix III. p. 430) selects 80 C. as 
the temperature to which milk must be heated. The Chicago 
regulations enact " milk from cows reacting to tuberculin 
shall be rejected unless it shall have first been pasteurised at 
a temperature of 175 F. or over for 30 seconds or longer in 
a, stream not more than a quarter of an inch thick." 

Pasteurisation is efficient to kill pathogenic organisms, 
will vastly reduce the bacterial content, and within limits will 
increase the keeping qualities of milk. On the other hand, 
there are a number of weighty objections to its use as a 
routine procedure which must be considered. 

(1) While pasteurisation destroys the majority of the 
bacteria present we have no certain evidence that it destroys 
their toxins. The process is but rarely carried out on the 
farm, so that, in general, the bacteria will have had many 
hours in which to produce their toxins. Some toxins, such as 
those of the meat -poisoning bacilli, are very heat-resistant, 
and although the toxins likely to be present in milk may be 
killed at the temperature of pasteurisation, we have no certain 
evidence upon this point. We do not know whether the 
toxins produced in milk are prejudicial or not, but it is reason- 
able, in the absence of proof to the contrary, to assume that 
some of them may be harmful. 

(2) Pasteurisation does not kill all the bacteria in milk 
but only most of them. By killing the lactic acid bacilli, 
which are themselves harmless and which have a considerable 
restraining influence upon the growth of any harmful bacilli 
which may be present, it has been suggested that such milk is 
likely to develop decidedly toxic properties when kept. 

This view arose out of Fliigge's work already mentioned 
(p. 373), work which, however, cannot be altogether accepted 
at the present day. If all the lactic acid bacilli are destroyed 
it is probable that the spore-bearing forms will more rapidly 
develop and produce their products, but it is not clear that 
.such products are toxic. 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 381 

In this connection Ayers and Johnson * have carried out 
a number of very interesting experiments which deserve close 
attention; They made careful comparison of the bacterial 
content of commercially pasteurised and raw market milk, both 
when fresh and on each successive day as long as the milk 
was fit for consumption. By commercial pasteurisation they 
mean milk heated from 60 C. to 65'6 C. in the "holder 5 ' 
process, or up to 71*1 C. in the "flash" process. They 
tested both types of pasteurisers. They divided the organ- 
isms present in the milk samples into three groups pepton- 
ising, lactic acid, and alkali or inert bacteria. Under 
peptonising bacteria were classed all forms which liquefied 
gelatin. All bacteria that gave red colonies with litmus were 
classed under the head of lactic acid bacteria. In the group 
called alkali formers or inert bacteria were classed all those 
forms which do not noticeably produce acid or liquefy gelatin. 
The total counts and percentages of the different groups were 
as far as possible carefully worked out. 

The following were the main results obtained by these 
workers. They found that the relative proportion of the groups- 
of peptonising, lactic acid, and alkali or inert bacteria was 
approximately the same in efficiently pasteurised milk and 
in clean raw milk. In both cases the alkali or inert forms 
constituted the largest group, the lactic acid bacteria next, 
while the peptonisers were in the minority. When both of 
these milks the efficiently pasteurised and clean raw milk 
were stored, the group relations changed ; but when the 
changes which took place were compared, it was found that they 
were the same in each. At the time of souring, the group pro- 
portions changed, so that the lactic acid bacteria constituted 
the largest group, with the alkali or inert forms next in order r 
while the peptonisers, as initially, were in the smallest propor- 
tion. In both of these classes of milks the group of pepton- 
isers sometimes increased slightly in its proportion to the 
other two groups during the first few days, but then gradu- 
ally decreased and always formed the smallest group. 

Even with inefficiently pasteurised milk and dirty raw 
milk the peptonisers formed the smallest proportion of the total 

1 Bulletin No. 126, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Animal In- 
dustry, 1910. 



382 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

bacteria. The number of peptonisers in a good grade of com- 
mercially pasteurised milk on the initial count and on succeed- 
ing days was found to be approximately the same as in a clean 
raw milk when kept under similar temperature conditions. 

Contrary to the views generally expressed, the authors 
found that lactic acid bacilli were always present after 
pasteurisation. They found that commercially pasteurised milk 
always sours because of the development of certain lactic acid 
bacilli, which, on account of their high thermal death-point, 
survive pasteurisation, and perhaps in some cases because of 
subsequent infection with acid-forming bacteria during cooling 
and bottling. They found that when milk was heated for 30 
minutes at 60 C., on an average about 4'8 per cent of the 
total acid colonies resisted the heating, when heated to 65'6 C. 
about 0'74 per cent survived. The authors consider that these 
heat-resisting lactic acid bacilli play an important role in 
pasteurised milk. They also found that the total bacterial 
increase in an efficiently pasteurised milk and a clean raw 
milk was about the same when the samples were kept under 
similar temperature conditions. 

(3) While these experiments fail to support the view that 
the bacteria surviving pasteurisation are more toxic in kind, 
and produce harmful products in stored pasteurised milk, they 
do not refute the possibility that if pathogenic bacteria gain 
access to a milk after pasteurisation, they are likely to more 
abundantly multiply in such milk than in ordinary raw milk. 
Since the bacterial content is so much less this is certainly 
likely to occur. This liability shows the great importance 
of rapidly cooling pasteurised milk, and the need for prevent- 
ing any bacterial contamination of milk after pasteurisation. 
In illustration of this it may be mentioned that a number 
of food -poisoning outbreaks from ice-cream, brawn, etc., 
owe some, if not most, of their virulent effects to the fact 
that the food-poisoning bacilli, added subsequent to the partial 
cooking, have found themselves in an environment largely 
freed from competitive bacteria and heated to a temperature 
just suited to their growth. 

(4) A further objection to pasteurisation is that although 
pasteurised milk will sour it sours much later, and so may 
be, and in practice probably often is, kept for a number of 



xx PRESERVATION OF MILK 383 

days. Old, stale milk may be sold as fresh, owing to the 
removal of most of the lactic acid bacilli. Such milk will 
appear normal to sight and taste, but may be bacterially 
highly dangerous. 

(5) If used without statutory control, there can be but 
little doubt that the extensive use of pasteurisation would 
lead to neglect of general sanitary precautions even more com- 
pletely than is the case to-day, under the belief that the 
pasteurisation would be an efficient substitute for cleanliness. 

(6) The pasteurisation may, by altering its chemical and 
physical composition, damage the milk as a commercial article 
and diminish its digestive and nutritive properties. The 
extent to which such changes take place will depend upon the 
temperature of pasteurisation. At 60 C. the milk appears to 
be physically or chemically unaffected. At 71 C. the milk is 
affected, and the cream will not rise properly. The influence 
of cooking milk upon its utility in infant feeding has been 
already discussed. Unless the pasteurisation temperature is a 
high one, there is probably no great objection to the process 
on this ground. 

It is probable that much commercial pasteurisation is 
inefficiently done. It is a procedure involving an accurate 
adjustment of time and temperature, and frequently being left 
to be performed by careless and unskilled persons (the so-called 
" practical man ") it is very unequally and inefficiently done. 
If pasteurisation is to be allowed at all, it should be controlled 
both as regards methods and apparatus. 

In the writer's opinion, summing up the matter, pasteur- 
isation is an efficient and useful procedure, which may be 
very valuable pending satisfactory and radical improvement in 
the milk business as a whole, but it is likely to be more 
harmful than beneficial unless the practice is rigidly supervised 
and the conditions under which it may be employed regulated. 

IV. CHEMICAL PRESERVATIVES 

Chemical preservatives are added to milk to retard or 
prevent bacterial growth, so that the milk will keep in an 
apparently unaltered condition for a period considerably 
longer than if they were absent. The substances which have 



384 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 



been added almost all exert a direct inhibitory action upon 
bacteria, but one of them (sodium carbonate), sometimes found 
in milk, is added not so much to check bacterial growth as to 
neutralise the acidity resulting from bacterial growth.- 

The preservatives most frequently added to milk are 
formaldehyde and boric acid or one of its compounds. Pre- 
servatives occasionally added are benzoic acid, salicylic acid, 
acid potassium fluoride, sodium carbonate, and hydrogen 
peroxide. 

As regards efficiency there is no doubt that by the use of 
chemical preservatives the development of bacteria can be 
retarded or even absolutely inhibited. It is merely a question 
of dosage. As actually used in milk, preservatives are 
employed not to inhibit all bacterial growth, but to retard it 
so that the milk will keep good for a further period of 
12 to 24 hours. The quantities of preservative necessary 
to do this have been studied by several workers, chiefly in 
regard to boric compounds and formalin. Eichmond l gives 
the following table : 

Table of the Length of Time in Hours that Milk will keep at 
various Temperatures when Preservatives are added. 





Preservative added to Milk. 


Temperature. 


Boric Preservative. 


Formaldehyde. 




None. Per cent> p er cent> 


Per cent. 


Per cent. Per cent. 




0-05 0-10 


0-0023 


0-0047 0-0093 




Time in Hours. 


F. 

60 


50 


84 


110 


60 


100 


140 


70 


34 


43 


54 


40 


58 


92 


80 


22 


26 


36 


29 


40 


66 


90 


15 


18 


27 


18 


31 


52 


100 


9 


12 


23 


11 


27 


44 



It is assumed that milk turns sour when an acidity 
increase of 25 degrees has taken place (i.e. 100 c.c. of milk 
require 25 c.c. more N/10 soda solution to neutralise to 

1 Report of Departmental Committee on the Use of Preservatives, etc., in Food, 
1901, p. 409. 



XX 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 



385 



phenolphthaline than when quite fresh). When the differences 
of time are calculated the following table is obtained : 

Table of Additional Time which Milk will keep sweet when 
Preservatives are added. 





Preservative added to Milk. 


Temperature. 


Boric Preservative. 


Formaldehyde. 




Per cent. 


Per cent. 


Per cent. 


Per cent. 


Per cent. 




0-05 


o-io 


0-0023 


0-0047 


0-0093 




Time in Hours. 


F. 

60 


34 


60 


10 


50 


90 


70 


9 


20 


6 


24 


58 


80 


4 


14 


7 


18 


44 


90 


3 


12 


3 


16 


37 


100 


3 


14 


2 


18 


35 



Eichmond adds : " It is assumed that to be of any appreci- 
able use, preservatives should increase the " life " of the milk 
by 12 hours at 80 to 90 (hottest summer temperature), and 
on this basis 0*09 per cent boric preservative and 0'004 per 
cent formaldehyde are the minimum amounts necessary in 
summer." 

Rideal, 1 taking 0*25 per cent lactic acid as the maximum 
acidity allowable, found that 1 : 2000 boric acid and 1 : 50,000 
of formaldehyde kept milk sweet for the 23 hours of the 
experiment at as high a temperature as 24 C. (75-2 F.). 

Price 2 found that formaldehyde added to milk in the 
proportion of 1 : 20,000 prevented the development of the 
more commonly met with bacteria in milk, and when added in 
the proportion of 1 : 1560 killed them. 

It is not, however, satisfactory to take the amount of 
lactic acid produced as a reliable index of the bacterial changes 
taking place. It is quite possible, and does take place to a 
certain extent, that while the lactic acid bacilli may be 
inhibited other bacteria may be much less affected. For 



1 Departmental Committee Report, 1901, p. 400. 
2 Centralbl.f. Bakt. Abt. 2, 1905, xiv. p. 65. 



2c 



386 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

example, Rothschild and Netter l concluded from their investi- 
gations that the addition of 1 : 10,000 formaldehyde retarded 
the lactic acid bacilli sufficiently for practical purposes, but that 
the increase of the other saprophytic bacteria and the patho- 
genic varieties is not sufficiently checked. 

Chako, using the number of bacteria as the test, found that 
in milk containing 1 : 10,000 formaldehyde a slight diminution 
resulted during the first twenty-four hours, followed by a slow, 
then a very rapid increase in the germ-content. In milk con- 
taining 1 : 20,000 formaldehyde there was a slow diminution 
for the first twenty-four hours, followed by a rapid increase. 
In milk containing 1:40,000 formaldehyde the bacteria 
developed nearly as rapidly as in the control milk free from 
preservative. 

The quantities of these preservatives actually found in 
milk show wide variations. They have usually been found to 
be markedly in excess of the amounts which experimental 
determinations have shown to be required to preserve milk for 
twelve to twenty-four hours. Thresh and Porter' 2 give the 
following table, compiled from the Report of the Departmental 
Committee, showing the maximum and minimum quantities of 
boric acid which have been found by different observers in 
milk. 



Amount of Boric Acid in Grains 
per Pint. 
Authority. 


Maximum. 


Minimum. 


Professor A. W. Blytli . . 80 -0 
Dr. W. Williams . . 26'2 
Dr. J. R. Kave . . . 20-0 
Mr. W. F. Lowe . . . 20'0 
Professor Thorpe . . . 17 '5 
Dr. A. Hill . 15-7 
Mr. C. E. Cassal . . J2'6 
Dr. E. Walford . . . ' 9 -2 
Dr. J. S. Cameron. . . 2-5 


1-7 

6-0 

0-625 
2'4 
0-35 



Thorpe compiled for the Departmental Committee a list 

1 Revue dlujgitnc et de med. inf. ami. dc la polyclinique II. de Eotschild, 
1905, iv. No. 4. 

2 Preservatives in Food and Food Examination, 1906, p. 102. 



xx PRESERVATION OF MILK 387 

of trade preservatives, with the amounts recommended by the 
vendors to be added to the different foods. As regards boric 
compounds, the amounts recommended to be added to milk 
varied from 1*2 to 14 grains per pint. The number of pre- 
parations of formaldehyde sold under trade names was much 
smaller than for the boric preparations, while the addition 
recommended for milk varied from 1 : 32,000 to 1 : 82,000. 

Whatever may be advanced in favour of the addition 
of preservatives to other foods, when added in definite and 
declared amounts, the consensus of opinion is overwhelmingly 
against their addition to milk. It is easy to understand why 
many milk vendors favour their employment. Their use 
converts a perishable article into a comparatively non-perish- 
able one, allows surplus milk to be kept over until next day 
without loss and be sold as fresh milk, and enables the 
farmer and purveyor to neglect the necessary laws of cleanliness 
in production. They are a further source of economy in that 
they save the cost of cooling the milk. Preservatives are the 
friend of the filthy dairyman. 

The essential objections to the addition of any preserva- 
tives to milk are the following : 

(1) There is evidence that their consumption may be 
directly harmful. The preservatives commonly added to 
milk are admittedly prejudicial to the animal organism in 
large doses. Boric acid and borax are given definite doses in 
the British Pharmacopoeia. Obviously, then, the onus pro- 
bandi is upon those who add them to food to prove that they 
are harmless in small and moderate doses. It cannot be said 
that their users have proved any such harmlessness ; they have 
only failed to demonstrate deleterious effects in certain groups 
of experiments. 

Very numerous investigations have been undertaken to 
test their effect upon digestion, their action upon the digestive 
ferments, and any prejudicial effects upon metabolism and the 
functions generally of the body. Space will not permit these 
investigations being discussed in detail, and the reader is 
referred to the Departmental Committee Eeport and to the 
Reports of the investigations themselves. 

The generally accepted view is that while these substances 
may possibly not be injurious in all cases, or even generally, 



3 88 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

when ingested in small doses by the healthy adult, yet they 
are actually, or likely to be, hurtful to invalids and young 
children in the doses in which they have been frequently 
found in milk, particularly if administered over a long period. 

The available data is a mixture of negative evidence of 
ill-effects and a smaller but still not inconsiderable volume of 
evidence of harmful results from their ingestion. In such 
cases positive evidence is of much greater value than negative, 
and from the whole it is justifiable to conclude that the 
addition of preservatives to milk, the food of infants and 
invalids, is totally unjustifiable. 

It must always be kept in mind that the amounts found 
have frequently been far in excess of any possible requirements. 
The milk may be dosed by the farmer, the middleman, and 
the actual purveyor. The persons who handle milk are, for 
the most part, unscientific and incapable of adding precise and 
accurate quantities of preservatives, and in general add much 
more than is required. 

(2) The action of preservatives upon bacteria is not a 
simple, general one, but is selective. It is possible to add 
preservative to milk in quantity sufficient to check lactic acid 
formation by inhibiting the lactic acid bacteria, while, at the 
same time, certain other bacteria, some possibly pathogenic, 
are not inhibited. This aspect of the subject has not been 
sufficiently investigated, but it is obviously theoretically possible 
for such milk to be exceedingly dangerous. The lactic acid 
bacilli are not themselves harmful, but visibly alter the milk. 
Eemove the warning signal of their presence without inhibiting 
the other bacteria, and it is possible for a milk to be not 
visibly altered yet very stale, and containing very numerous 
bacilli and their toxins. 

(3) Their addition is totally unnecessary, and is a direct 
incentive to dirty methods of milking and handling milk. 
There is abundant evidence that cleanly collected milk, pro- 
perly cooled, requires no addition of preservative to enable it 
to keep in good condition all the time necessary for its 
transmission, sale, and use in the consumer's house. Rich- 
mond, 1 for example, remarks : " It has been found by the 
experience of the Aylesbury Dairy Company that by cooling 

1 Departmental Committee Report, 1901, p. 387. 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 389 

as soon as possible after milking, the milk can, in the hottest 
weather experienced in England, be brought up by rail from 
distances from 30 to 300 miles from London, and be delivered 
to customers in a condition permitting its use within a reason- 
able time." Upon this point the Departmental Committee 
remark : " As to the feasibility of conducting the traffic in 
the largest towns without preservatives we have no doubt 
whatever." 

The addition of preservatives allows milk to be collected 
under conditions of gross dirt and neglect, and yet to be pro- 
tected from the natural result of these dirty methods a rapid 
bacterial multiplication and a prematurely soured milk. As 
the Departmental Committee state : 

There is this further objection to the use of preservatives in 
the milk traffic, that they may be relied upon to protect those 
engaged therein against the immediate results of neglect of 
scrupulous cleanliness. Under the influence of these preservatives 
milk may be exposed without sensible injury to conditions which 
otherwise would render it unsaleable. It may remain sweet to 
taste and smell and yet have incorporated disease-germs of various 
kinds, whereof the activity may be suspended for a time by the 
action of the preservative, but may be resumed before the milk is 
digested. 

The Departmental Committee made the following recom- 
mendations concerning milk and milk products : 

A. That the use of formaldehyde or formalin, or preparations 
thereof, in foods or drinks be absolutely prohibited. 

B. That the use of any preservative or colouring matter what- 
ever in milk offered for sale in the United Kingdom be constituted 
an offence under the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts. 

C. That the only preservative which it shall be lawful to use 
in cream be boric acid or mixtures of boric acid and borax, and in 
amount not exceeding 0'25 per cent, expressed as boric acid. The 
amount of such preservative to be notified by a label upon the 
vessel. 

D. That the only preservative permitted to be used in butter 
and margarine be boric acid or mixtures of boric acid and borax, 
to be used in proportions not exceeding 0'5 per cent, expressed as 
boric acid. 

The addition of preservatives to milk has markedly de- 
clined (or, at least, the addition of the commoner varieties of 



39 



MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



CHAP. 



preservative) since local authorities have made a firm stand 
against their addition. The grounds upon which legal action 
can be taken are given in Chapter XVII. The following 
table, submitted by Dr. Hill to the Departmental Committee, 
illustrates the extent to which they were used in Birmingham up 
to 1899. From the reports of public analysts it would appear 
that they are much more rarely met with at the present day. 

Variation in the Use of Preservatives in Milk in Birmingham. 



Year. 


Percentage of Samples containing 


Boric Acid. 


Formic 
Aldehyde. 


Both. 


Total. 


1896 (April to Dec.) 


8-3 






1897 


5-5 


3-3 





8-8 


1898 . 


3-1 


6-7 


0-4 


10-2 


1899 (Jan. to Sept.) 1-2 


63 





7-5 



This table shows that the percentage prevalence of boric 
acid has declined and the formic aldehyde percentage increased. 
Such variations are partly the result of fashion, but are also 
largely due to the influence of successful prosecutions for the 
presence of the one preservative. 

The Use of Hydrogen Peroxide in tlie Preservation of Milk. 
The bactericidal action of hydrogen peroxide is well known, 
and its use to preserve milk has been tested by Chick, Eosam, 
Buckle, and others. 

Budde has introduced a method of treating milk on a 
commercial scale under the name of " Buddeised Milk." In 
this process the milk is heated to 122 F. (50 C.), and pure 
3 per cent hydrogen peroxide is added, so that the milk con- 
tains 0'03 to 0'035 per cent of hydrogen peroxide. The 
mixture is well stirred for 15 to 30 minutes. It is then 
drawn into bottles with tightly-fitting stoppers, the bottles 
placed in a water-bath at 122 F. for 2 to 3 hours, and then 
cooled in cold water. The method is a combination of heat 
and chemical action. Hewlett and others have investigated 
the method and speak well of its effectiveness. 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 391 

If hydrogen peroxide is left in appreciable amount in the 
milk, it imparts an unpleasant bitter taste, although it is 
probably harmless in the small quantity present. Another 
objection is that commercial solutions of hydrogen peroxide 
are not always free from arsenic or other impurities, and these 
substances may in this way be added to milk. 

The process does not appear to be extensively used in this 
country, and if the contention of Rosenau is well founded that 
heating to 60 C. for 20 minutes is sufficient to kill all the 
pathogenic bacteria likely to be present in milk, it is decidedly 
preferable to heat to 60 C. for 20 minutes than to heat to 
50 C. for several hours and also add hydrogen peroxide. A 
temperature of 60 C. is not more detrimental to the digesti- 
bility of milk or the contained ferments than is one of 50 C. 

V. CONDENSATION AND DRYING 

Under this head may be mentioned two special methods, 
designed for the preservation of milk, the resulting substances 
being known respectively as condensed milk and dried milk. 

Condensed Milk. Condensed milk is prepared by concen- 
trating either whole or separated milk, with or without the 
addition of sugar. Theoretically, therefore, there are four 
kinds of condensed milk, but the writer is not aware of any 
unsweetened separated brands. The four kinds are : 
(a) Sweetened condensed whole milk. 
(5) Unsweetened condensed whole milk. 

(c) Sweetened condensed separated milk. 

(d) Unsweetened condensed separated milk. 

The condensation of the milk is usually carried out by 
evaporating the milk in vacuum jars under reduced pressure 
until sufficiently concentrated. In the sweetened varieties 
cane sugar is added before concentration. The separated milk 
variety usually contains more sugar (containing often as much 
as 40 to 45 per cent) than the whole milk. The milk is sold 
in hermetically sealed tins. In the unsweetened brands these, 
after filling but before sealing, are heated to a temperature of 
over 100 C. for some time. 

It has been shown in Chapter XII. that while bacteria are 
present in condensed milk, the number present is relatively 



392 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

and actually low. The method of preparation is sufficient to 
eliminate most bacteria. 

The use of condensed milk in this country would appear to 
be on the increase. Coutts l states that there are (1911) nine 
or ten factories in England and as many in Ireland engaged in 
this industry. Accurate figures are not available as to the total 
or the relative amounts of each, but Coutts thinks that about 
half are makers of machine-skimmed varieties. The imports 
of condensed rnilk into the United Kingdom show a steady 
increase. In 1895 they were 545,394 cwts., and in 1900 
and 1901, 987,003 and 919,319 cwts. respectively. From 
1902 to 1909 the importations were as follows : 



Year. 


Separated or 
Skimmed 
Sweetened. 


Full Cream 
Sweetened. 


Full Cream or 
Skimmed 
slightly 
Sweetened. 


Condensed 
Milk 
not 
Sweetened. 


Total. 




Cwts. 


Cwts. 


Cwts. 


Cwts. 


Cwts. 


1902 


307,984 


554,389 


5754 


46,548 


914,675 


1903 


323,877 


547,567 3020 


41,253 


915,717 


1904 


365,543 


497,551 


1248 


39,794 


904,136 


1905 


374,560 


483,960 


1170 


33,944 


893,634 


1906 


458,675 


421,180 


3052 


25,076 


907,983 


1907 


458,980 


428,936 


1228 


22,627 


911,771 


1908 


475,108 


407,690 


1019 


36,393 


920,210 


1909 


507,304 


436,035 


370 


47,669 


991,378 




I 





In addition to its use by the ordinary consumer, condensed 
milk is used to some extent by milk purveyors to add to 
ordinary milk. In this connection Coutts (loc. cit.) remarks : 

Considerable amounts of full-cream condensed milk, either un- 
sweetened or only slightly sweetened, are imported in large tins. 
There is good reason to believe that a considerable amount of such 
milk is purchased by dairymen, who mix it with water to a suit- 
able consistency, and utilise the product to expand their supply of 
ordinary milk. . . . The practice of mixing condensed milk with 
fresh cows' milk is said to be most prevalent in times of special 
shortage, when there may be a large demand for condensed un- 
sweetened milk for this purpose, even small 1 Ib. tins being bought, 
and occasionally even the fully-sweetened variety utilised. But 
apart from the difficulties caused by a shortage in the supply of 
fresh milk, there is reason to believe that some dairymen make a 
fairly constant practice of adding diluted condensed milk to genuine 
fresh cows' milk. 

1 Report to Local Government Board, New Series, No. 56, 1911. 



xx PRESERVATION OF MILK 393 

Condensed milk is undoubtedly used to a large extent for 
infant feeding. In this connection the present regulations are 
not precise enough as to the necessity for the unmistakable 
differentiation of whole condensed and machine-skimmed con- 
densed milk. The extensive use of the latter for infant feeding 
is partly due to this reason and partly to ignorance on the 
part of mothers. 

Coutts makes a number of valuable recommendations, of 
which the following may be mentioned : 

1. Tins of condensed skimmed milk to be required to bear, 
in a prominent and unobscured place, in letters of prescribed 
size, the words, " Skimmed milk unfit for infants." 

2. Prohibition of the use of any preservative, except sugar, 
in condensed milk. 

3. Control over trade statements liable to mislead the pur- 
chaser as to the character, food value, or wholesomeness of the 
product sold. 

4. Declaration of the content of milk fat and of added 
substances foreign to milk. 

5. Some arrangement adopted for the systematic marking 
of tins so as to indicate the manufacturer or person responsible. 
If possible also the approximate date of canning should be 
indicated. 

Dried Milk. Dried milk is now manufactured commer- 
cially to a considerable extent. It is the powder obtained 
either by passing milk rapidly between heated surfaces so 
that it is deprived of its water, or by drying on a cylinder in 
a partial vacuum. This dry powder, on being again mixed 
with water, is converted into a fluid which looks like milk, 
and which, on ordinary chemical analysis, shows the chemical 
constituents of that substance. It is not, however, correct to 
speak of such a fluid as milk, since it has been considerably 
altered. The enzymes have been destroyed, the fat globules 
have been physically altered, etc. It is a highly nutritive, 
nearly sterile fluid, which may very possibly be in every way 
as good a nutritive food as milk, but this has not been 
proved. 

Dried milk is prepared by several processes, and the experi- 
ments which have been carried out have shown that in all the 
methods the temperature is sufficient to kill the non-resistant 



394 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

bacteria, and the resulting powder is almost sterile. Tubercle 
bacilli appear to be killed. For example, Hoffmann l tested 
whether the Just-Hatmaker method would kill tubercle bacilli. 
He introduced tubercle bacilli into the liquid milk, and found 
that none remained alive in the dried milk, as shown by 
guinea-pig inoculation tests. 

Both these methods of preserving milk are special pro- 
cedures, and, as such, not comparable to the methods of pre- 
servation described above. The conversion of the milk into 
a tinned form, whether as a dry powder or a syrup, costs 
money, so that economically they are more expensive than 
milk. 

These methods may be useful for special purposes, but can- 
not be practically applied to the milk supply generally, while, 
if practicable, their extended use would be undesirable on public 
health grounds. 

Reconstructed Milk. Dr. Buchanan,' 2 in his Eeport 011 
Foods, etc., to the Local Government Board, draws attention to 
the existence of a process for reconstructing milk after separa- 
tion and concentration, which has lately been employed on a 
commercial scale at an establishment near London. 

In this process, which is said to have considerable vogue in 
New York and other American cities, milk is separated, and the 
separated milk concentrated in a specially constructed receptacle at 
140 F. (60 C.), while a current of filtered air is passed through 
the liquid. By concentration for 2-i- hours to 3 hours the separ- 
ated milk is reduced to about one-fifth of its original volume. 
The cream is also exposed, for about an hour, to similar treatment. 
The concentrated separated milk and the cream are then despatched 
by road or rail to a town depot, at which they are mixed in any 
desired proportion with boiled tap water, and distributed in bulk or 
in bottles. 

At the establishment in question, this reconstructed milk was 
stated always to contain at least 3 '2 5 per cent of milk fat. Analysis 
of several samples confirmed this statement, and also the claim of 
the producers that, in consequence of the low temperature of con- 
centration, enzymes are retained which are natural to raw milk but 
are destroyed in ordinary processes of pasteurising. On the other 
hand, bacteriological tests failed to confirm the claims of the pro- 
ducers that the milk was exceptionally free from bacteria, and that 

1 Archivf. Hygiene, 1906, vol. lix. p. 216. 
- Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1909-10, p. 211. 



XX 



PRESERVATION OF MILK 395 

the process could be relied upon to destroy any pathogenic organisms 
which might have been present in the original milk. Bacterially 
the reconstructed milk closely resembled an ordinary raw milk of 
reasonable cleanliness. 

Buchanan adds : " It seems desirable that when milk is 
prepared by this process, the product should be sold as pre- 
pared milk." 



CHAPTEE XXI 

MACHINERY AND PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN A PURE MILK SUPPLY 

IN various chapters, particularly in Chapter XVI., existing 
defects in the conditions of milk supply have been pointed out, 
and the requirements of a pure supply indicated. Innumer- 
able scientific papers condemning the existing state of affairs 
have been written. Health Congress after Health Congress has 
passed resolutions in favour of a cleaner and purer milk supply, 
and learned committees have considered the subject and framed 
admirable rules and regulations as to what is required. The 
practical results have been meagre. It is safe to say that the 
milk supply to-day is nearly if not quite as infected with 
tubercle bacilli as it was ten or twenty years ago. Milk as sup- 
plied may be a little less dirty and bacteria laden than it was 
ten to twenty years ago, but the average improvement has been 
trifling. Epidemics of infectious disease spread by milk are 
still regularly and frequently recorded in the scientific press. 
On the chemical side preservatives have been for the most 
part eliminated, but milk adulteration and cream abstraction 
is still very much with us ; it is merely changing its character, 
and instead of being coarse and crude is becoming scientific 
and a matter of toning. Clearly the milk problem is not 
becoming any less of a problem, and our available legal 
enactments conspicuously fail to provide the consumer with 
pure milk. The present chapter is devoted to a broad general 
consideration of the administrative machinery and procedures 
required to obtain a pure clean milk supply. 

In considering this problem of a pure milk it must be 
remembered that there are four separate requirements, and 
pure milk implies the following : 

396 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 397 

I. The whole milk of the cow without additions or abstrac- 
tions, and free from physical alteration. 
II. Milk derived from healthy cows, and, in particular, 
from cows free from tuberculosis. 

III. Milk uninfected with specific disease-producing organ- 

isms such as those of diphtheria, scarlet fever, or 
typhoid fever. 

IV. Clean milk that is, milk so collected, transmitted, 

and vended that it is free, or reasonably free, from 
manurial or other objectionable pollution. 

These requirements are quite different and distinct, and 
the procedures to obtain them are in the main different and 
distinct although they overlap. 

I. To OBTAIN CHEMICALLY PURE AND WHOLE MILK 

The law to ensure this is considerable (see Chapter XVII.), 
but an immense amount of discussion has taken place as to the 
justice of the Board of Agriculture standards. To the writer 
the following appear to be the salient facts and considerations 
bearing upon this question : 

(a) The average quality of unadulterated milk in this 
country is well above the standards fixed. In other words, 
the chemical standards for milk are low. The average 
composition of milk as given in Chapter I. is : milk fat, 3*9 ; 
solids not fat, 8*9. On this basis the careful manipulator can 
abstract as much as one-quarter of the cream, or add to the 
milk about one -quarter of its bulk of skim milk, without 
infringing the standards. A low standard is clearly pre- 
judicial to the consumer. 

The evil effects of a low milk standard are enhanced 
by the great frequency with which ridiculously inadequate 
penalties are imposed in conviction cases, particularly where 
there are no stipendiary magistrates. 

A simple mathematical calculation will illustrate the 
extent to which milk adulteration pays. Dealing with 
cream abstraction only, or its equivalent, addition of skim 
milk, and taking the average composition of milk to be 
only 3 '5 per cent milk fat, which is below the usual amount, 
we will suppose the fraudulent milk purveyor merely tones 



398 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

his milk by reducing the fat to 3'0 per cent by the 
addition of skim milk. Obviously he can add one gallon 
of skim milk totally fat free to six gallons of milk with fat 
content 3*5 to bring its combined fat content down to 3'0 per 
cent. The average retail price of milk is 4d. per quart, so 
that on every seven gallons of milk he makes four quarts = 
Is. 4d. less the cost of the separated milk. 

To make the illustration concrete, it will be supposed that 
the fraudulent purveyor is trading in a provincial town such 
as Colchester with a population of 42,000 odd, and that he only 
supplies J^j of the whole population. A reasonable allowance 
of milk is 8 oz. per head per day. This with the above popula- 
tion is equal to 16,800 pints per day =2100 gallons. Supply- 
ing Jg- of this, the fraudulent dairyman will supply 42 gallons 
per day. It has been shown above that one-seventh may be 
separated milk without infringing the standard, so he sells 
6 gallons of milk per day of separated milk at the price 
of milk == 8s. per day. In a year his illegal profit will be 
3 65 x 8s. = 146, less the cost of the separated milk. 
This at 4d. per gallon would amount to (4 x 365 x 6) 
36 : 10s., or at a liberal allowance 46. This gives a clear 
profit of 100 per annum. 

In this particular town the Food and Drugs Acts are well 
enforced; 2^- samples per 1000 of population (105 samples) 
are taken, of which 5 are milk samples. It is mathematically 
likely, therefore, that only one sample per annum would be 
taken from the fraudulent vendor, as he supplies only J<y of 
the population. If his milk sophistication is done with care 
his sample will probably not infringe the standard, or if it is 
just below he will not be prosecuted, since prosecutions are not 
instituted when the fat is only just below 3'0 per cent. The 
present standards allow him to pocket the 100, and if he is a 
manipulative artist his risk is negligible. If, of course, he 
deliberately reduces the fat per cent to 2*5 by adding separated 
milk, his profit is over 200 per annum. On mathematical 
chances he would not have a sample taken for six months, so 
he would make a clear 100 before he was detected. Not 
infrequently some trumped-up story is accepted as mitigation 
of the offence, sometimes even condones it, and at the worst he 
usually is fined 10s. to 20s. Perhaps with costs it totals to 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 399 

4. Obviously milk adulteration is very profitable, while 
milk toning, if less lucrative, is safer and as remunerative in 
the end. 

As showing that the present low standard is appreciated 
by the fraudulent milk seller the Annual Eeport of the Local 
Government Board for 1908-1909 may be quoted. 45,093 
samples of milk were analysed during the year, and 4738, or 
10*5 per cent, was reported as adulterated, or as failing to 
reach the minimal limits fixed by the Sale of Milk Eegulations, 
1901. In the four years 1905-1908 the proportion of milk 
samples reported as adulterated in England and Wales has 
three times been 10'5 per cent. The Report states that while 
the systematic milk adulteration practised thirty years ago has 
practically disappeared, judging by the numbers of samples 
which are reported as " poor," " very poor," or as just reaching 
the legal limit of 3 per cent fat, all of which have to be 
returned as genuine, the practice of robbing good milk of a 
large proportion of its cream, so that it may just escape 
condemnation by the public analyst, is on the increase. 

A firm of milk and cream contractors lately represented 
to the Board that a systematic practice is growing up in the 
South and West of England of " toning " milk before it is 
despatched to London and other large towns. " Toning " 
consists of reducing the quality of milk so that it barely 
complies with the minimum limits prescribed by the Sale of 
Milk Eegulations. The firm states that samples taken in 
December 1908, without notice, of the milk sent by nine 
farmers to one of their depots showed that the average fat in 
the morning and evening milks was 4'OS per cent, and that 
a large illicit profit can be made without risk when milk is 
thus systematically impoverished. Commenting on this, the 
Eeport observes : 

Some magistrates appear to consider the limit for fat fixed by 
the regulations as representing milk of average quality, and regard 
all milk coming within 5 or 10 per cent of that limit as passable. 
It must, however, be remembered that milk of good average qualitv 
contains more nearly 3J per cent of fat than the 3 per cent which 
has been fixed for the purpose of the regulations referred to. 

The extensive prevalence of milk toning is also shown by 
the fact that the percentage of fat and solids found in ordinary 



400 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

vended milk closely follows the prevailing standards. In 
certain places the local authorities, by refusing to prosecute 
unless infringements are well below the standard, have practi- 
cally reduced the standards for their districts with disastrous 
results to the unprotected consumer. Dr. Buchanan l gives a 
striking instance of this. In the borough of Middlesbrough 
it became the practice of the local authority to disregard the 
milk standards and not to institute legal proceedings against 
the vendor in any case where the sample of milk had a fat 
content of over 2*7 per cent. The proportion of milk samples 
infringing the legal standard for milk fat increased from 14 
per cent in 1905 to 17, 30, and 35 per cent in the three 
following years. In 1909 the proportion was 32 per cent. 
" This progressive deterioration could not 'be attributed to 
alteration of methods of sampling, and had occurred notwith- 
standing the considerable energy which had be shown by the 
sampling officers of the local authority." 

(&) A low standard, such as the present legal one, is 
undoubtedly prejudicial to the producer of high -class milk, 
and is an incentive to dishonest practices. The high-grade 
milk producer has to compete with milk vendors whose 
deliberately impoverished milk fetches precisely the same 
price as the high-class milk. By the use of semi-legalised 
practices the fraudulent milk vendor, while keeping within 
the four corners of the law, is in a position, owing to his 
enhanced profits, to undersell the honest milk producer and 
purveyor. The term " semi-legalised " is used, for while it is 
clearly an offence to add or abstract anything from milk, even 
if thereby the milk is not reduced below the legal limits, yet 
in practice the methods of chemical analysis are the only 
means of detection available. 

(c) In a few cases, individually not numerous, and collect- 
ively, compared with the total, nearly negligible, the mixed 
milk of a herd of cows may and does fall below the legal 
standards as regards its chemical constituents. When such a 
condition exists it is usually for a temporary period only, and 
almost invariably is present at but one out of the two daily 
milking periods. 

1 Report on Work of Food Inspectors, Annual Report of Medical Officer, 
Local Government Board, 1909-10, pp. 210-211. 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 401 

In another small group of cases the food supplied to the 
cows is so deliberately poor, the animals being fed on brewers' 
grain, etc., or given excessive amounts of water to drink, that 
the milk is below standard. These instances are excluded from 
consideration, as they are really cases of adulteration of the 
milk through the cow. 

Apart from mixed milk it appears to be not uncommon 
for individual cows to yield at certain times, and at the 
morning milking, milk which is deficient in fat even to the 
extent of infringing the legal fat standard of 3'0 per cent. 
This deficiency in the milk of individual cows in a herd of 
any size is nearly always balanced by the rich milk of other 
cows, the mixed milk being well above the legal standards. 

In the few cases of genuine failure of mixed milk to reach 
the legal standards the law appears to operate unfairly and 
prejudicially to the milk producer. The milk is adjudged to 
be adulterated, and unless the contrary is proved, an accusa- 
tion- of fraudulent practice confronts the innocent farmer or 
purveyor. 

On the agricultural and trade side much is made of these 
few instances and the alleged hardship inflicted upon the 
milk trade. By bringing forward the same cases again and 
again they are made to appear much more numerous than is 
really the case. 

The hardship is more apparent than real. The milk 
purveyor can get a warranty from the milk producer. The 
farmer knows or should know the legal standards, and it 
is his business to look after the quality of his milk in the 
same way as any other trader. He knows the time of year 
and other conditions when his milk may possibly be below 
average quality, while facilities are generally available at a 
low cost l (usually sixpence per sample) for him to have 
his milk analysed, while, if he prefers it, he can install his 
own milk-testing apparatus. Local authorities are always 
ready to withdraw a prosecution if the farmer demonstrates 
to them the naturally inferior quality of his milk. 

To avoid any hardship to farmers the so-called " appeal 
to the cow" has been instituted in a number of places. 

1 Full particulars are given in Leaflet No. 146 of the Board of Agriculture 
and Fisheries. 

2D 



402 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

When the sample analysed falls below the legal limits the 
milk producer is notified of the fact, and, with his permission, 
a mixed milk sample is collected from his herd at the same 
milking-time as when the deficient sample was obtained. If 
the mixed milk of the cows sampled at the farm falls below 
the legal standard, it is presumptive evidence that the 
deficiency is due to the cows and not to outside human 
sophistication. 

There are a number of possible fallacies and sources of 
error which make this test less valuable than would at first 
sight appear. It is, for example, very important that the 
interval between the collection of the first sample and the 
taking of the second from the cows should be as short as 
possible. Otherwise the herd may have altered in composition 
by removal of some animals (running dry, by sale, etc.) or by 
the addition of fresh animals. This will be used as an argu- 
ment that the samples are not comparable. Also, if the 
interval between the samplings is considerable, it will be 
urged that the feeding has been altered, the weather has 
changed, etc., and so, consequently, the samples are not com- 
parable. 

Further, there is room for deliberate fraudulent manipula- 
tion. One or more of the cows giving the richest milk may 
be temporarily removed and the fact suppressed, the interval 
between the previous milking and the milking for the second 
sample may be intentionally much prolonged ; while, in par- 
ticular, at the second sampling, many of the cows may be 
intentionally not milked dry, so that the strippings (very 
rich in fat) are not added. From all these causes a specially 
impoverished milk may be artificially produced and the cows 
be saddled with the blame. The writer does not believe that 
such practices are anything but rarities, but their possibility 
must be kept in view. It is not usually to the farmer's 
interest to proclaim his milk of poor quality. 

Another source of error is that the sampling must be 
properly done, and that however carefully done the samples 
are really not comparable. A farmer does not, in general 
mix the milk of all his cows before sale. He fills one 
churn with the milk of four or five cows, then the next churn, 
and so on. The deficient sample will probably not represent 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 403 

the mixed milk of all his cows, and probably no one is in a 
position to say exactly which cows' milk it does represent. The 
inspector can only take precautions to ensure that what he 
collects as his second sample is the mixed milk of all the 
cows, as the nearest thing comparable. Food and drug in- 
spectors are not used to taking representative mixed milk 
samples, and it is very necessary to give them precise direc- 
tions how to collect them. 

The writer has used the "appeal to the cow" test in a 
considerable number of cases in connection with his work as 
a Public Analyst. In no instance has he found the mixed 
milk on second sampling below standard, although in one 
case the percentage of fat was only 3'1. He invariably 
arranged for the second sample to be taken within three or 
four days of the first, and personally gave the directions as 
to sampling. 

The above considerations lead the writer to the view that, 
if there is to be any alteration of the chemical milk standards, 
it should be rather in the direction of raising than lowering. 
The present low standard means a handicap to the high-class 
milk producer, considerable diminution of the nutritive quali- 
ties of the milk as supplied to the consumer, with prejudicial 
effect to the infant poor, and a heavy illicit profit to the ever- 
present " milk toner." 

There is one alteration of procedure which should be 
carried out whether standards are altered or not. In all cases 
in which analysis has shown that the sample is below standard 
the person from whom the milk has been obtained should be, 
with as little delay as practicable, notified of the fact (without 
prejudice), and before any question of prosecution has been 
entertained. This would enable the milk purveyor to arrange 
for the mixed milk of the cows at the farm supplying the in- 
criminated sample to be sampled. The local authority should 
afford facilities for this to be done with their supervision, and 
should give the services of their inspector for collecting the 
sample, but the actual cost of the analysis should be met by 
the milk purveyor, since it is for his protection. If the 
mixed milk is below the standard the local authority might 
remit this cost at their discretion. 

If the purveyor of the deficient quality milk fails to avail 



404 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

himself of this means of protection from impoverished cows, 
after being supplied with full information, he should not be 
permitted to raise this plea in court. 

It will be said that such notification of deficiency will be 
of no use to the large milk purveyor, since he cannot trace the 
particular herd supplying the defective sample. This is of 
small moment, since, while it has been pointed out that a few 
herds do occasionally yield sub-standard milk, it is never to 
be anticipated that the mixed milk of half a dozen herds will 
be so deficient. 

It has been contended that milk should be sold priced 
according to quality like other articles. Theoretically this is 
sound, but in practice the difficulties are so great, owing to 
the natural variations in the chemical quality of milk, that it 
is impracticable. If, however, milk standards were raised, 
there would have to be provision made for allowing the sale 
of the small amount of genuine milk which was below the 
raised standard. 

An alternative plan is to deliberately define milk as a 
fluid containing 3'0 per cent fat and 8 '5 solids-not-fat to 
which nothing had been added. This would legalise the re- 
duction of the quality of the milk to the legal standard. In 
some ways it would be fairer to the community generally and 
to the milk trade, but it would press unfairly upon the smaller 
purveyors and farmers. The big milk vendors with skilled 
staff could reduce to the legal limits to a nicety, while the 
small man would be unable to hit the happy mean between a 
profitable abstraction and an excessive but illegal removal. 

II. MlLK DERIVED FROM HEALTHY COWS 

This subject is of greatest importance in connection w T ith 
tuberculosis, and that aspect of the subject is fully discussed 
in Chapter XVIII. There is considerable need for much 
greater veterinary supervision in connection with cows, 
although, as pointed out in Chapter XVIII., veterinary 
inspection alone will not go far in diminishing the danger 
from tubercle-infected milk. 



xxr PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 405 

III. PKOTECTION OF MILK FROM SPECIFIC CONTAMINATION 
WITH THE BACILLI OF THE ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

As pointed out in Chapter XVII. the legal powers available 
for the protection of the public from this group of infections 
are contained in Article 9 of the Dairies, Cowsheds, and 
Milkshops Orders, Section 4 of the Infectious Diseases 
Prevention Act, and Sections 52, 53, 54 of the Public Health 
Acts Amendment Act 1907. 

Article 9 is very useful, but has several limitations. For 
example : 

(a) The term " dangerous infectious disorder " is indefinite. 
For instance, a person suffering from open phthisis should be 
included, but such an interpretation is probably not intended 
in the section. 

(&) The Article does not say who is to judge when infection 
is at an end. The certificate of the Medical Officer of Health 
should be required. 

(c) It only becomes operative when the infectious disease 
is known to be present. There is no power given to the 
Medical Officer of Health or other official to make inquiries 
or investigations to determine whether any of the persons 
associated with the dairy are infectious or suffering from 
infectious disease. 

(d) The dairyman, under this Article, has not to report 
the existence of the dangerous infectious disorder. He should 
be required to notify his suspicions before they become de- 
finite knowledge, to the Medical Officer of Health. 

Sections 52-54 of the Amendment Act are very useful, 
but they have to be adopted. Section 52 is vague. The 
person suffering, apparently, is in the first place to be the 
judge as to whether he can carry on his business without risk. 

The need for further powers is, however, especially felt 
in regard to the control and prevention of milk - borne 
epidemics originating outside the area of the local authority 
in which the epidemic exists. For this purpose Section 4 of 
the Prevention Act has, in general, to be relied upon. This 
section, on superficial examination, seems to promise much 
practical assistance, but -in practice it is of extremely limited 
value. Its defects are the following : 



4 o6 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

(a) The Act containing it has to be adopted, so that it is 
not in force in many parts of the country. 

(&) There is considerable initial delay in inspecting the 
farm or farms supplying the suspected milk. The Medical 
Officer of Health has first to collect his evidence, then apply 
to a justice having jurisdiction in the place where the dairy 
is situated. Dealing with a large town this may mean a 
journey of anything from 50 to 200 miles. On arriving he 
has to search out a justice who, not knowing anything about 
him, may require him to submit his evidence before he will 
grant the order. The justice has entire discretion to grant or 
withhold the order to inspect. Knowing this, the Medical 
Officer of Health has to see that his evidence is considerable, 
or, in other words, he must delay to get sufficient evidence, a 
reasonable suspicion may not be enough. 

(c) He has only power to inspect the animals and the 
dairy, and the former only if accompanied by a veterinary 
inspector. There is no authority given him to obtain infor- 
mation from the cowkeeper, or to examine the persons on the 
farm, although this is the most important thing for him to 
do. He may presumably ask questions, but it is left to the 
discretion of the cowkeeper to answer them. Apparently a 
careful survey of the cows and a contemplation of the manure 
heap and other features of the cowshed is, in some occult way, 
to furnish him with the key to the outbreak. 

(d~) Delay is caused while the Medical Officer of Health 
is reporting to his authority. 

(e) Further delay follows, since, after receiving the report 
of the Medical Officer of Health, the local authority have to 
give the dairyman notice to appear before them, and they 
must give him at least 24 hours' notice. 

(/) There is nothing in the section to say that the 
infected milk shall not be supplied to some other district, and 
presumably those districts would have to go through the same 
time-destroying procedures. 

Stated in a few words, this section gives inadequate powers, 
and its operation necessitates delay so long and so unnecessary 
as to render it of very little practical value, since all the time 
the peccant milk may be daily infecting large numbers of con- 
sumers. It is sometimes used, but only hi want of better powers. 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 407 

In the valuable Milk and Dairies Bill (see Appendix) 
introduced by Mr. John Burns most of these defects are 
eliminated in Sect. 2 of the Bill which was to replace the 
above section. 



IV. To OBTAIN CLEAN MILK (AND ALSO TO OBTAIN 
A PURE MILK) 

It is now generally admitted that ordinary market milk 
is heavily and unnecessarily bacterially contaminated, while 
most of those who have studied the problem are of opinion 
that to obtain clean milk additional legislation is required. 
The structural and other alterations of detail required have 
been considered in Chapter XVI. and the broad administrative 
procedures only have to be dealt with. There is no unanimity 
as to the methods required to obtain a clean milk supply, 
and those which have been advanced may be classified as 
follows : 

(a) Improvement in Existing Administrative Powers. 
One of the alterations most in favour is the transference 
of the administration of the legal duties and obligations 
in regard to milk, more particularly those contained in the 
Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops Orders, from the District 
Councils to the County Councils. It is pointed out that 
these legal powers, if only they were properly carried out, 
would result in a great improvement of the milk supply. An 
improvement would certainly result, but we should not get 
clean milk, only a somewhat cleaner milk. Clean milking is 
a process, not a thing which can be obtained by regulations as 
to structural requirements, supplies of water laid on, and the 
like. It can only be obtained by education in some form or 
another. Also these regulations are very deficient as regards 
the cooling, transit of milk, etc. 

While the transference of the duties and powers to the 
County Councils would no doubt be an improvement and a 
great advance, it would only go a short way towards 
the production of clean milk. For a County Council to 
adequately supervise the dairies and cowsheds, it would 
be necessary to appoint a large staff of veterinary and 
sanitary inspectors, while extended bacteriological examina- 



408 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

tions would have to be undertaken. The expenses would 
be heavy, and it is hardly to be expected that a County 
Council, composed of members largely, directly or indirectly, 
interested in the production of milk, and put into office by an 
electorate largely influenced by the agricultural interest, would 
view the work and the expense in the enthusiastic manner 
necessary for success. This lack of enthusiasm would be 
accentuated by the fact that the benefits were mainly for 
urban districts quite unconnected with the county which 
provided the money. Indeed, it may reasonably be contended 
that it is not fair to throw this financial burden upon County 
Councils. 

(5) Artificial Purification of Milk. Another view is 
that the provision of clean pure milk is so difficult and im- 
practicable that the best plan is not to strive for it but 
to take what we now have and by sterilisation and pasteurisa- 
tion render it bacterially harmless. While a considerable 
body of argument may be advanced in favour of such a plan 
as a temporary measure pending the obtaining of pure milk, 
most authorities are agreed that this solution is no satisfactory 
solution, and that sterilised milk is not equal to pure new 
milk. The reasons for this view have been fully considered. 

(c) Municipalisation. Leslie Mackenzie appears to have 
been the first (1898) to suggest that some measure of muni- 
cipalisation may be the solution of the problem, and this view 
has been advanced by a number of writers. Another writer, 
for example, says : " The more I study this question the more 
firmly am I convinced that only by an extension of the 
principle of direct municipal ownership and supply can we 
bring about a really adequate reform of the milk supply." 

In the writer's opinion there are practically insuperable 
difficulties in the way of such a proposal, and even if it were 
practicable it is not desirable. It is not within the range of 
practical politics. Municipal ownership might possibly be 
useful in the case of a few individual herds, kept as an object 
lesson of cleanliness, and also to supply a specially pure milk 
on the lines of the milk supplied by the American Milk 
Commissions. 

(cT) Provision of Clean Milk by a gentle Process of Education 
of the Milk Producer and Milk Vendor. This is a view ex- 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 409 

tensively advocated as the solution of the problem, and indeed 
may be said to be the solution offered by the milk trade itself. 
This attitude is clearly expressed in the following remarks of 
Mr. J. Sadler (Secretary of the Cheshire Milk Producers' 
Association), in a discussion upon the reform of the milk 
supply : 1 

He was quite prepared to admit that the ideal of what con- 
stitutes clean milk production was too low, but it was a process of 
education, and on the best managed farms the ideal already existed. 
They might at present be considered isolated farms, but he did not 
admit that they were few in number, and, in fact, they were 
growing more numerous every day. In his opinion this was the 
direction in which they, as representing the public health authorities, 
should develop. . . . They could not do without the dairy farmer, 
therefore they should approach him reasonably, encourage him, and 
carry him with them, and they would not find him half so black as 
he was painted. The dairy farmer, like every other farmer, moved 
slowly, like the processes of nature with which he was associated, 
but he was open to conviction, and once he was persuaded that the 
way they pointed was the right way right also in the public 
interests, then he would move with them, for if he was slow he 
was equally sure. They should not aim at displacing the present 
methods of milk production and distribution, but should aim rather 
at perfecting them. 

This was spoken in 1905. Are the conditions of the 
milk trade any better to-day ? Speaking generally there has 
been no improvement, or, if any, it has been extremely slight. 
The structural conditions are probably somewhat improved, 
but the general manurial pollution of milk appears to have 
but little diminished. It is rather difficult to see why the 
farmer should have improved in any of the districts where 
sanitary pressure is not put upon him. In the great majority 
of rural districts such sanitary pressure is not employed, and 
as he gets the same price for dirty as for clean milk, there is 
no reason why he should feel that the way of cleanliness was 
the right way. 2 

1 Public Health, 1905, vol. xvii. p. 427. 

2 The idea that the average cowkeeper will of his own accord, and with- 
out outside pressure, supply a clean milk instead of a manure - laden one, 
cannot be seriously entertained by those who have extensively discussed this 
matter with him. The writer has met with a few cowkeepers who could be 
moved along the way of sanitary cleanliness as regards their cows by gentle 
suasion and the light of sweet reason, but very few compared with the number 



4 io MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

Education is required, but it is especially education of 
the consumer. The consumer as an individual is usually 
totally ignorant of the bacterial content of his milk, and is in 
consequence completely apathetic about it. The idea that 
his milk may have been depleted of its cream will sometimes 
throw the householder into a white heat of indignation 
against his dairyman, with beneficial results as regards the 
future fat content of his milk ; but the fact that he and his 
may and do consume countless hordes of bacteria, some of 
them actively virulent, which certainly ought not to be there, 
moves him not at all, as he does not know of their presence. 
Even if the matter is explained, he would probably not 
be greatly alarmed since he would not comprehend their 
significance. 

As showing the lack of interest by the public, Heine- 
mann 1 mentions that in Boston, a city of 600,000 population, 
where milk investigation is invited by the authorities, the 
average number of samples presented for examination daily is 
less than one. The apathy of the general public is further 
shown by the failure of milk companies to maintain their 
financial footing when they have given the public a pure, 
clean milk, but at the same time have had to charge an 
increased price for it. 

Certain efforts have been made by individuals or companies 

who regarded real cleanliness precautions as a silly fad. The great majority 
take refuge in the following argument in turn : First, that they do take all 
necessary steps, and that practically nothing does get into the milk. Con- 
fronted witli milkers with filthy hands, and with still filthier cows, they 
abandon this argument for the next, which is, that if anything does get into 
the milk the strainer removes it all. Strainer, with much gross manurial filth 
removed by it from the milk, produced in triumphant confirmation. With 
the significance of this explained to them they fall back upon their final plea, 
that perhaps manure does get into the milk, but it does not matter, and they 
milk like their fathers before them, and what was good enough for their fathers 
is good enough for them. The latter may be a true statement, but, as the 
writer explains to them, is not the point, which is whether it is good enough for 
the milk consumer who may not desire what their and his father had. Their 
fathers had a heavy incidence of infectious disease, a heavy tuberculosis 
mortality, and always a high death-rate. These are not good enough to-day. 
The statement also neglects the important modern effect of urbanisation, and 
the fact that milk usually has now to travel very many miles to all the large 
cities. Also the practical abolition of the milkmaid has diminished cleanliness 
in milking. 

1 Archives of Pediatrics, 1908. 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 411 

in the milk trade to supply a purer milk to the public. Large 
milk companies such as those of Messrs. Welford and Sons, and 
The Aylesbury Dairy Company in London, or Mr. Sorensen's 
dairy near York may be mentioned as taking steps to provide 
a cleaner and purer milk supply. These Companies do not, 
however, charge more than the usual market price for their 
milk. The precautions which they take are partly for their 
own protection, and partly in order that their milk will 
thereby command a better sale. 

In Appendix VI. particulars are given of the Reports 
required from the local medical officer and veterinary inspector 
before a farmer is accepted as a milk contractor to Messrs. 
Welford's, also the weekly report required from the farmer, 
and the medical and sanitary rules which he is required to 
observe. They show a great advance over the ordinary 
methods. 

The writer is of opinion that none of the above suggested 
procedures is in the least likely to obtain a pure milk supply, 
and reluctantly he has come to the conclusion that the 
following is the only plan likely to obtain what is required. 
This may be called : 

(e) Education of the Milk Trade ly the Rejection of Dirty 
Milk. If it is important for the community to have clean 
milk, the milk trade (using the term to cover all who deal 
commercially with it) must be made to provide it. It is 
essentially a question of supply and demand. The only way 
to ensure its provision is for the consumer to refuse to drink 
dirty milk. The individual consumer does not and cannot 
know when and to what extent his milk is manured, but he 
provides a health department to see to that for him. As 
McCleary * has pertinently put it, it is not his business to 
know. " As a ratepayer he may point out that he regards 
his public health department as a specialised organisation for 
the protection of his health, and that if we attach so much 
importance to a pure milk supply, it is our business to get 
it for him." At present the health department of cities 
cannot give the consumer pure milk, however much they may 
realise that he should have it. That power should be given 
to them. Translated into legal action, if milk comes into the 

1 Public Health, 1905, vol. xvii. p. 421. 



4 i2 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

district of a local authority for purposes of sale that local 
authority should be given power to collect samples of such 
milk from anywhere, and authority to inspect all dairies, cow- 
sheds, and cows, wherever situated, supplying such milk, if 
there is reasonable grounds for suspecting that adequate pre- 
cautions are not observed to preserve it as a pure and whole- 
some article. If the conditions are unsatisfactory, and are not 
remedied on complaint, the local authority should have 
power to prohibit the sale of that milk within their district 
until written permission to resume is given. The milk pro- 
ducer or his agent must be served with notice to be present 
to enable him to state his side of the case, and the local 
authority must be prepared to furnish definite conditions 
which, on being complied with, would entitle the milk pro- 
ducer to again send his milk into the prohibited urban area. 
The power given to the local authority would simply be to 
prohibit the sale of the milk within their area. They would 
have neither power to prosecute nor to order specified works 
to be carried out. 

To carry out such a regulation it is obviously essential 
that the law should require all milk vendors to send to the 
local authority in the area in which they distribute milk, a 
list of the sources of their milk, and to keep it up to date 
by notifying alterations. This procedure to obtain clean milk 
was enunciated by the writer 1 in 1906, and added experience 
has only confirmed his belief in it. 

Some of the objections which will, no doubt, be made may 
be considered. 

1. It will be said, as the Central Chamber of Agriculture 
declared in connection with Clause 2 of the Milk and Dairies 
Bill of Mr. Burns seeking to do the same thing, but for milk 
in relation to infectious diseases only, that it is a violation of 
the whole principle of local government by authorising the 
officials of one local authority to interfere in the area of 
another. 

It is more than twenty-five years since the Dairies, Cow- 
sheds, and Milkshops Order of 1885 was issued; many rural 
areas have made no regulations under it, and where they 
have they are essentially a dead letter. The rural areas will 

1 Journ. lloyal San. Institute, 1906, xxvii. p. 685. 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 413 

not put their own house in order ; it is, therefore, not 
unreasonable that the milk-drinking areas should be given 
power to deal with the matter themselves. 

Principles of local government are not fixed and unalter- 
able, but are being yearly extended in all directions, and this 
principle is one which has received considerable sanction in 
numerous local enactments, besides being widely practised in 
America without detriment. 

2. It will be said that the burdens thrown upon the 
urban communities will be heavy and out of proportion to 
the benefits received. When an urban community wants a 
clean water supply it has to pay for it ; if it wants clean milk 
it also must be paid for. Also there is no reason why the 
expenses should be prohibitive. Systematic bacteriological 
examination of the milk would be necessary, and would greatly 
reduce working expenses. The chemical purity of the milk 
supply is maintained by taking a large number actually, but 
still, compared with the total bulk of milk, a small number 
proportionally, of samples of milk. The bacterial purity of 
milk can be maintained by an extension of the same principle 
of spot samples. 

The heavily manured and badly handled milk samples 
would be ascertained in the first place by bacteriological 
examination. The responsible persons would then be warned. 
If the milk still continued impure the source of supply and 
the methods of transmission would then be personally inquired 
into by the city milk inspector, who should be a veterinary 
surgeon if possible. 

The conditions and methods which required altering 
would be pointed out, and if they were not altered, or milk 
continued to be bacterially bad, the responsible persons would 
be cited to appear before the urban authority to show cause 
why their supply should not be stopped from being admitted 
into the urban area. In default of improvement the milk 
supply would be excluded, under a heavy penalty, from being 
sent into that district. 

The urban medical officer of health would no doubt 
send a list, a " black list," of the suspended purveyors or cow- 
keepers to other local authorities for their information, and 
would report the non-compliance of the milk producer to the 



4H MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

local authority in whose district his premises are situated, 
calling their attention to the breach of their own regulations. 

The carrying out of systematic bacteriological examinations 
and the provision of inspectors would not be a costly business. 
This plan would have the great advantage that the cost of 
working it would fall on those who benefit, and not, as now, 
on those who are out of pocket by it. The urban authorities 
which neglected their powers would have the dirty milk ; or, 
much better, it should be made compulsory for all urban 
authorities to exercise these powers in the same way as a 
minimum number of food and drug samples are required to 
be taken. 

It may incidentally be remarked that to ensure a reason- 
ably clean milk supply bacteriological examinations are essential 
and nothing can take their place. Some authorities write as 
if regular sanitary, and particularly veterinary inspection, 
is sufficient and efficient to ensure clean milk. However 
thoroughly this is done, and however vigorously their findings 
are backed up by the authority appointing them, they cannot 
ensure a clean milk supply, although, of course, they can do 
much. This is obvious since clean milking is a process, and 
while bad buildings and surroundings may render clean milk 
impossible, their presence cannot ensure it. Detection of 
dirty procedures is only possible by bacteriological examina- 
tion. It is also just the improvements in the personal methods 
of milking which the writer has found so difficult to obtain. 
Johnstone. 1 inspecting Sherborne Rural District, records the 
same difficulty. He remarks : " The dairy-farmers were more 
opposed to reform in the personal methods of their milkers 
than to any proposition in the way of improved ventilation 
and drainage in the cowsheds." 

On the other hand, bacteriological examination alone is 
inadequate. Bacteriological standards as fixed methods for 
judging milk and as a direct basis for administrative action 
are, in the writer's opinion, unsatisfactory and are not advocated 
(see Chapter XIV.). Bacteriological methods, combined with 
inspections and investigations, must go hand in hand, the 
former serving as a guide and also a check upon the latter. 

3. It may be advanced that the procedure suggested would 

1 Report of Medical Officer, Local Government Board, 1907-8, p. 96. 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 415 

be ineffectual and would merely have the effect of disorganising 
the milk business. The farmer would send his milk to some 
other centre, and the regular distribution would be upset. Its 
effectiveness would depend upon whether the urban authorities 
cared to make it effectual. The black list would keep other 
districts informed of the bad offenders, and even if a volun- 
tary system only was enforced it is scarcely likely that 
town B would be satisfied with milk not pure enough for 
town A. The bad milk producer would have no market, and 
would have to come back to the urban authority and ask on 
what conditions his milk could be taken back. He would be 
given the printed regulations of that authority, setting out 
what he must do, and when he had made his alterations, 
structural and educational, he would be allowed to send his 
milk back. The consumer, as represented by his health 
authority, would have educated the milk producer and vendor 
up to his requirements. 

4. It will, of course, be said that the scheme advocated 
will press very hardly upon the agricultural interests, will 
render milk production unprofitable, and cause farmers to give 
up cow-keeping, and, in other words, will harass the milk 
industry out of existence. There is no reason why such a 
gloomy picture should be realised. In the first place, all 
regulations and requirements of urban areas should be required 
to be sanctioned by the Local Government Board, and need 
not be more stringent than what is admitted by all authorities 
to-day to be reasonable requirements. The rural authorities 
should have power to appeal to the Local Government Board 
against too stringent urban requirements as to occasional 
lapses from cleanliness, etc. 

It is surely also not a difficult administrative feat to so 
arrange that the first effects of the urban control would be the 
gradual elimination or levelling up of the worst offenders. It 
is a steady, continuous improvement which is required, not a 
sudden rejection of half the supplies in the country. 

There is no difficulty in protecting the agricultural industry 
from unfair stringency of requirement, and with their powerful 
parliamentary influence this aspect is hardly likely to be 
neglected. If to require the farmer to keep his cows more 
nearly like his horses, and to see that his milkmen do not 



4 i 6 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH CHAP. 

come direct from the muck -fork to the milk -pail without 
ablution or overall is to harass the farmer, it is surely time he 
was harassed. 

5. It will be advanced that to require milk to be clean 
will send up the retail price of milk. Even eminent public 
health authorities, as well as laymen, proclaim the view that 
whatever is necessary the price of milk must not be raised, 
otherwise more harm than good will be done. 

To the writer this does not appear a sound argument. 
Crudely stated, it means that a manure-polluted, bacteria-laden, 
nearly putrefying milk at 4d. a quart is a better food for the 
poor than a clean pure milk at 4^-d. to 5d. a quart. We do 
not apply the same argument to other foods. Meat is vital 
food as well as milk, but we do not argue that since rejection 
of diseased meat or rotten fish may send up the market price 
of meat or fish, that it is better to let people eat diseased meat 
or rotten fish rather than risk a rise in price. Unfortunately 
manured milk does not so readily betray itself. 

The logical plan is to carefully measure the danger to the 
community of dirty and infected milk, to decide what is 
necessary and what is reasonable on sanitary grounds to 
require, and then to devise measures to enforce those reason- 
able requirements, and this whether or no the price of milk is 
likely to be a little enhanced. 

It is probable that effective measures of improvement will 
increase the cost of milk. The farmer and the milk purveyor 
are not philanthropists, and have a right to a fair profit, and 
if it costs more to produce milk in a clean condition, it is 
surely only reasonable that the price should be raised to give 
them that fair profit. 

The writer's own opinion is that the enforcement of proper 
procedures in regard to milk will, at first, cause the retail 
price of milk to go up. This rise will be only temporary, 
and will fall when it is found that the requirements are 
not costly in themselves, but essentially matters of educa- 
tion and the elimination of bad habits and practices. 
After a time it will be found that the cost of production is 
not appreciably raised, consequently, by the action of ordinary 
economic forces, the prices will go back to the old level, but 
the price will be that of a clean instead of a dirty milk. That 



xxi PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN PURE MILK 417 

this is likely to occur is shown by the fact that to-day there 
are a certain number of cow-keepers and milk producers who 
produce and vend their milk under admirable conditions, and 
can make a working profit at current prices. . Further, it is 
obvious that much money could and should be saved by 
thoroughgoing improvements in distribution and by better 
co-operation amongst milk producers. The money saved in 
this way should materially if not entirely counterbalance any 
increased expense in production. 

The writer is well aware that there are other practical 
difficulties in the way of the proposed plan, of which perhaps 
the most important are the difficulty of regulating the mixing 
of milk from different sources, as practised by the large com- 
panies, and the control of pasteurisation, but these do not 
interpose insuperable difficulties, and certainly do not invali- 
date the general principle. 



2 E 



APPENDIX I 

CITY OF MANCHESTER 

TUBERCULOSIS AND MILK 

BY the Manchester Corporation (General Powers) Acts, 1899 and 
1904, it is enacted as follows : 

1899 Act, Section 19. (1) In this section 

" Dairy " shall include any farm, farm-house, -cow-shed, 
milk store, milk shop, or other place from which milk 
is supplied, or in which milk is kept for purposes of 
sale : 

"Dairyman" shall include any cow-keeper, purveyor of 
milk, or occupier of a dairy ; 

" Medical officer " shall include any person duly author- 
ised to act temporarily as medical officer of health. 

(2) Every person who knowingly sells, or suffers to be sold, or 
used for human consumption within the city the milk of any cow 
which is suffering from tuberculosis of the udder, shall be liable to 
a penalty not exceeding ten pounds. 

(3) Any person the milk of the cows in whose dairy is sold, or 
suffered to be sold, or used for human consumption within the city, 
who, after becoming aware that any cow in his dairy is suffering 
from tuberculosis of the udder, keeps, or permits to be kept, such 
cow in any field, shed, or other premises, along with other cows in 
milk shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds. 

(4) Every dairyman who supplies milk within the city and has 
in his dairy any cow affected with, or suspected of, or exhibiting 
signs of tuberculosis of the udder, shall forthwith give written notice 
of the fact to the medical officer, stating his name and address, and 
the situation of the dairy or premises where the cow is. 

Any dairyman failing to give such notice, as required by this 
sub-section, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding forty shillings. 

(5) (A) It shall be lawful for the medical officer, or any person 
provided with and, if required, exhibiting the authority in writing 
of such medical officer, to take within the city for examination 

418 



APP. i TUBERCULOSIS AND MILK 419 

samples of milk produced, or sold, or intended for sale, within 
the city. 

(B) The like powers in all respects may be exercised outside 
the city by the medical officer, or such authorised person, if he shall 
first have obtained from a justice having jurisdiction in the place 
where the sample is to be taken, an order authorising the taking of 
samples of milk, which order any such justice is hereby empowered 
to make. 

(6) (A) If milk from a dairy situate within the city is being 
sold, or suffered to be sold, or used within the city, the medical 
officer, or any person provided with and, if required, exhibiting the 
authority in writing of the medical officer, may, if accompanied 
by a properly qualified veterinary surgeon, at all reasonable hours 
enter the dairy and inspect the cows kept therein, and if the medical 
officer, or such person, has reason to suspect that any cow in the 
dairy is suffering from tuberculosis of the udder, he may require 
the cow to be milked in his presence, and may take samples of the 
milk, and the milk from any particular teat shall, if he so requires, 
be kept separate, and separate samples thereof be furnished. 

(B) If the medical officer is of opinion that tuberculosis is 
caused, or is likely to be caused, to persons residing in the city 
from consumption of the milk supplied from a dairy situate within 
the city, or from any cow kept therein, he shall report thereon to 
the Corporation, and his report shall be accompanied by any report 
furnished to him by the veterinary surgeon, and the Corpora- 
tion may thereupon serve on the dairyman notice to appear before 
them within such time, not less than twenty-four hours, as may 
be specified in the notice, to show cause why an order should 
not be made requiring him not to supply any milk from such 
dairy within the city until the order has been withdrawn by the 
Corporation. 

(c) If the medical officer has reason to believe that milk from 
any dairy situate outside the city, from which milk is being sold, 
or suffered to be sold, or used within the city, is likely to cause 
tuberculosis in persons residing within the city, the powers con- 
ferred by this sub-section may, in all respects, be exercised in the 
case of such dairy, provided that the medical officer, or other 
authorised person, shall first have obtained from a justice having 
jurisdiction in the place where the dairy is situate, an order 
authorising such entry and inspection, which order any such justice 
is hereby empowered to make. 

(D) Every dairyman, and the persons in his employment, shall 
render such reasonable assistance to the medical officer, or such 
authorised person or veterinary surgeon as aforesaid, as may be 
required by such medical officer, person, or veterinary surgeon, for 
all or any of the purposes of this sub-section, and any person 



420 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

refusing such assistance, or obstructing such medical officer, person, 
or veterinary surgeon, in carrying out the purposes of this sub- 
section shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds. 

(E) If, in their opinion, the dairyman fails to show cause why 
such an order may riot be made as aforesaid, the Corporation may 
make the said order, and shall serve notice of the facts on the 
county council of any administrative county in which the dairy is 
situate, and on the Local Government Board, and if the dairy is 
situate outside the city, on the council of the borough or county 
district in which it is situate. 

(F) The said order shall be forthwith withdrawn on the Cor- 
poration, or their medical officer, being satisfied that the milk 
supply has been changed, or that it is not likely to cause tuber- 
culosis to persons residing in the city. 

(G) If any person, after any such order has been made, supplies 
any milk within the city in contravention of the order, or sells it 
for consumption therein, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceed- 
ing five pounds, and, if the offence continues, to a further penalty 
not exceeding forty shillings for every day during which the offence 
continues. 

(H) A dairyman shall not be liable to an action for breach of 
contract, if the breach be due to an order under this sub-section. 

(7) The Corporation shall cause to be given public notice of 
the effect of the provisions of this section by advertisement in local 
newspapers, and by handbills, and otherwise in such manner as 
they think sufficient, and this section shall come into operation at 
such time, not being less than one month after the first publication 
of such an advertisement as aforesaid, as the Corporation may fix. 

(8) Offences under this section may be prosecuted, and 
penalties may be recovered by the Corporation before a petty 
sessional court having jurisdiction in the place where the dairy is 
situate or the offence is committed, and not otherwise. 

(9) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in carrying into 
execution the provisions of this section shall be chargeable on the 
city fund and city rate, and the Corporation may also charge upon 
the same rate any expenses incurred by them in the application by 
a veterinary surgeon of the tuberculin, or other reasonable test, for 
the purpose of discovering tuberculosis to any cow whose milk is, 
or was recently, being supplied within the city. Provided that no 
such test shall be applied except with the previous consent of the 
owner of such cow. 

(10) This section may be carried into execution 'by a Com- 
mittee of the Council formed in accordance with, and subject to, 
the provisions of the Fourth Schedule to the Diseases of Animals 
Act, 1894, except that the Committee shall consist wholly of 
members of the Council. 



TUBERCULOSIS AND MILK 421 

1904 Act, Section 92. (1) The dairyman may appeal against 
an order of the Corporation under Section 19 of the Manchester 
Corporation (General Powers) Act, 1899, or the refusal of the 
Corporation to withdraw any such order either to a petty sessional 
court having jurisdiction within the city, or at his option, if the 
dairy is situate outside the city, to the Board of Agriculture and 
Fisheries, who shall appoint an officer, to hear such appeal. Such 
officer shall fix a time and place of hearing within the city, and 
give notice thereof to the dairyman and the town clerk, not less 
than forty-eight hours before the hearing. Such officer shall, for the 
purposes of the appeal, have all the powers of a petty sessional 
court. 

The Board of Agriculture and Fisheries may, at any stage, 
require payment to them by the dairyman of such sum as they 
deem right, to secure the payment of any costs incurred by the 
Board of Agriculture and Fisheries in the matter of the appeal. 

The court or the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, as the 
case may be, may confirm, vary, or withdraw the order which is 
the subject of the appeal, and may direct to and by whom the costs 
of the appeal (including any sum paid or payable to the Board of 
Agriculture and Fisheries as aforesaid) are to be paid, but, pending 
the decision of the appeal, the order shall remain in force unless 
previously withdrawn by the Corporation. 

(2) If such an order is made without due cause, or if the 
Corporation unreasonably refuse to withdraw the order, the dairy- 
man shall, if not himself in default, be entitled to recover from the 
Corporation full compensation for any damage he has sustained by 
reason of the making of the order, or of the refusal of the Cor- 
poration to withdraw the order. 

The court, or the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, may 
determine and state whether an order the subject of appeal has 
been made without due cause, and whether the Corporation have 
unreasonably refused to withdraw the order, and whether the dairy- 
man has been in default. 

Any dispute as to the fact whether the order has been made or 
maintained without due cause, or as to the fact of default, where 
any such fact has not been determined by the court, or Board of 
Agriculture and Fisheries, or as to the fact of damage, or as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined in the manner pro- 
vided by Section 308 of the Public Health Act, 1875, and that 
section shall accordingly apply and have effect as if the same were 
herein re-enacted, and in terms made applicable to any such dispute 
as aforesaid. 



APPENDIX II 

TUBERCULOSIS ORDER OF 1909 OF THE BOARD OF 
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES 

(Su laeq uently withdrawn ) 

THE Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, by virtue and in exercise 
of the powers vested in them under the Diseases of Animals Acts, 
1894 to 1903, and of every other power enabling them in this 
behalf, do order, and it is hereby ordered, as follows : 

Interpretation. 
1. In this Order 

" The Board" means the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries : 
" Local Authority " means a Local Authority for the pur- 
poses of the Act of 1894 : 
"The Act of 1894" means the Diseases of Animals Act, 

1894: 

" Inspector " includes Veterinary Inspector : 
"Bovine animal" means a bull, cow, ox, heifer, or calf: 
"Milk" includes cream and separated or skimmed milk. 
Other terms have, where the context so permits, the same 
meaning and scope as in the Act of 1894. 

Notice of Disease. 

2. (1) Every person having in his possession or under his 
charge : 

(i.) any cow which is, or appears to be, suffering from tuber- 
culosis of the udder, indurated udder, or other chronic 
disease of the udder ; or 
(ii.) any bovine animal which is, or appears to be, emaciated 

from tuberculosis, 

shall without avoidable delay give information of the fact to a con- 
stable of the police force for the area wherein the animal is, or to 
an Inspector of the Local Authority, and the constable or Inspector 

422 



APP. ii TUBERCULOSIS ORDER 423 

shall transmit the information to the Local Authority, who, if not 
themselves the Sanitary Authority, shall inform that Authority. 

(2) The person in possession or having charge of the animal 
shall forthwith take such steps as are necessary to secure com- 
pliance with Article 8 (Precautions to be adopted with respect to Milk, 
etc.) and Article 9 (Detention and Isolation of Suspected Animals). 

Inspection and Examination of Animals. 

3. (1) Where a Local Authority, by reason of information 
received under the preceding Article or otherwise, have reasonable 
ground for supposing that on any premises in their district there 
is a cow which is suffering from chronic disease of the udder or 
giving tuberculous milk, or a bovine animal which is emaciated 
from tuberculosis, the Local Authority shall with all practical speed 
cause such veterinary examination of the bovine animals on such 
premises to be made by a Veterinary Inspector as in the opinion 
of the Local Authority is necessary to ascertain whether any cow 
thereon is suffering from tuberculosis of the udder or giving tuber- 
culous milk, or whether any bovine animal thereon is emaciated 
from tuberculosis. The Inspector may apply the tuberculin test to 
a bovine animal with the previous consent in writing of the owner 
thereof or of his agent, but not otherwise. 

(2) For the purpose of such examination, a Veterinary In- 
spector may at all reasonable hours enter on any part of the 
premises and examine any bovine animal thereon and require any 
cow to be milked in his presence and may take samples of the milk, 
and the milk of any particular teat shall, if he so require, be kept 
separate, and separate samples thereof shall be furnished. 

(3) The Inspector may also take samples of the faeces or urine 
of any bovine animal on the premises, or of any abnormal discharge 
from any bovine animal thereon. 

(4) The occupier of the premises and the persons in his em- 
ployment shall render such reasonable assistance to the Inspector 
as may be required for all or any of the purposes of this Article, 
and any person refusing such assistance shall be deemed guilty of 
an offence against the Act of 1894. 

(5) The Inspector shall as soon as possible send to the Local 
Authority a report showing the result of his inspection and ex- 
amination, and of the examination of any sample taken by him. 
The Local Authority, if not themselves the Sanitary Authority, 
shall send a copy of the report to that Authority. 

(6) If the report of the Inspector as to any animal does not 
show that it is suffering from tuberculosis of the udder, or giving 
tuberculous milk, or emaciated from tuberculosis, the Local 
Authority shall forthwith give notice in writing to the owner or 
person in charge thereof that the provisions of this Order relating 



4 2 4 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

to precautions to be adopted with respect to milk, and detention, 
and isolation of suspected animals, have ceased to apply to the 
animal. 

Slaughter of Diseased Animals. 

4. (1) Where a Local Authority are satisfied by the report 
of the Inspector that in their District there is a cow which is suffer- 
ing from tuberculosis of the udder, or giving tuberculous milk, or 
a bovine animal which is emaciated from tuberculosis, the Local 
Authority shall with all practicable speed give notice in writing (in 
the Form set forth in the Schedule hereto or to the like effect) to 
the owner or person in charge of the animal and also to the Board 
and cause the animal to be slaughtered ; provided that if the owner 
of the animal, or any person on his behalf, gives notice in writing 
to the Local Authority, or to their Inspector or other officer 
directed to carry out such slaughter, that the owner objects to the 
animal being slaughtered under the provisions of this Order, it 
shall not be lawful for the Local Authority to cause the animal 
to be slaughtered without the special authority of the Board first 
obtained ; provided also that this special authority shall not be 
given in the case of any animal valued under this Order at more 
than thirty pounds, if and so long as the animal is detained and 
isolated, and the milk (if any) is dealt with, in accordance with the 
provisions of this Order. 

(2) If the value of an animal proposed to be slaughtered, as 
agreed or certified under this Order, exceeds thirty pounds, the 
Local Authority shall not proceed with its slaughter unless so 
directed by the Board. 

Valuation for Compensation. 

5. (1) Before the slaughter of an animal the Local Authority 
shall either agree in writing with the owner of the animal the value 
thereof in its condition at the time of valuation, or if they shall 
fail so to agree shall cause such value to be ascertained by a valuer 
appointed by them or appointed on the application of the Local 
Authority by the Board but paid by the Local Authority, and such 
valuer shall give to the Local Authority and to the owner a certifi- 
cate in writing of the said value. 

(2) In ascertaining the value of an animal, regard shall be had 
to any Act, Order, or Regulation dealing with the sale or use of 
milk, milk products, or carcases for human food. 

(3) The value shall be ascertained both on the basis of the 
certificate of examination hereinafter required showing that the 
animal was suffering from tuberculosis, and also on the basis of its 
not showing that the animal was suffering from tuberculosis, and the 
amount to be paid for compensation shall depend on such certificate 
accordingly. 



TUBERCULOSIS ORDER 425 

Post-mortem Examination of Slaughtered Animals. 

6. (1) In the case of every animal slaughtered under this 
Order, the carcase shall, at the time of slaughter or as soon as 
practicable thereafter, be examined by a Veterinary Inspector of the 
Local Authority, or (if so required by the owner or person in charge 
of the animal before it is slaughtered) by some other veterinary 
surgeon, who, failing agreement between the Local Authority and 
such owner or person, shall be nominated by the Board but paid 
by the Local Authority. 

(2) The Veterinary Inspector or other veterinary surgeon shall, 
at the conclusion of his examination, give to the Local Authority 
and to the owner of the animal a certificate of the result of the 
examination in the Form set forth in the Schedule hereto or to the 
like effect. 

Compensation. 

7. (1) If the Local Authority fail to carry out the examina- 
tion required by the preceding Article, or if the certificate of such 
examination does not show that the animal was suffering from 
tuberculosis, the Local Authority shall, by way of compensation, 
pay to the owner thereof a sum equal to the value of the animal as 
agreed or certified in manner aforesaid, and a further sum of twenty 
shillings. 

(2) If the certificate of the examination shows that the animal 
was suffering from tuberculosis (not being advanced tuberculosis), 
the Local Authority shall, by way of compensation, pay to the 
owner a sum equal to three-fourths of the value of the animal as 
agreed or certified in manner aforesaid, after deducting therefrom 
one-half of their reasonable costs of any valuation of the animal by a 
valuer appointed by the Board, and of any examination of its 
carcase by a veterinary surgeon other than the Veterinary In- 
spector. 

(3) If the certificate of the examination shows that the animal 
was suffering from advanced tuberculosis, the Local Authority shall, 
by way of compensation, pay to the owner a sum equal to one-fourth 
of the value of the animal, as agreed or certified in manner afore- 
said or the sum of two pounds, whichever sum is the greater, after 
deducting from this compensation one-half of their costs of valuation 
and examination as in the preceding case. 

(4) For the purposes of this Order an animal slaughtered 
under this Order shall be deemed to have been suffering from 
advanced tuberculosis 

(a) when there is miliary tuberculosis of both lungs ; 

(b) when tuberculous lesions are present on the pleura and 

peritoneum ; 



426 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

(c) when tuberculous lesions are present in the muscular 

system, or in the lymphatic glands embedded in or 
between the muscles ; or 

(d) when the carcase is emaciated arid tuberculous lesions 

are present. 

Precautions to be adopted with respect to Milk, etc. 

8. (1) The milk produced by any cow which is, or appears 
to be, suffering from chronic disease of the udder or emaciated 
from tuberculosis, shall not be mixed with other milk until the cow 
has been examined by a Veterinary Inspector in accordance with 
the provisions of this Order, and until the owner or person in charge 
thereof has been notified that this Article has ceased to apply to 
the cow ; and all milk affected by this Article shall forthwith be 
boiled or otherwise sterilised, and any utensil in which such milk 
is placed before being so treated shall be thoroughly cleansed with 
boiling water before any other milk is placed therein. 

(2) A Local Authority, or a Veterinary Inspector on their 
behalf, may by written notice apply the restrictions imposed by 
this Article to the milk produced by any cow specified in the 
notice which is suspected of giving tuberculous milk and is being 
examined under this Order, and such restrictions shall apply 
accordingly. 

Detention and Isolation of Suspected Animals. 

9. (1) Every person having in his possession or under his 
charge any cow which is, or appears to be, suffering from chronic 
disease of the udder, or any bovine animal which is, or appears to 
be, emaciated from tuberculosis, shall keep the animal isolated as 
far as practicable from other bovine animals, and also keep the 
animal in his possession or under his charge, until the animal has 
been examined by a Veterinary Inspector in accordance with the 
provisions of this Order, and the owner or person in charge thereof 
has been notified that this Article has ceased to apply to the animal ; 
provided that the animal may at any time be slaughtered by the 
owner or person in charge. 

(2) A Local Authority, or a Veterinary Inspector on their 
behalf, may by written notice apply this Article to any bovine 
animal specified in the notice which is being examined under this 
Order, and such Article shall apply accordingly. 

Suspected Animals in Markets, Fairs, and Saks. 

10. (1) A Veterinary Inspector of a Local Authority may by 
notice served on the owner or person in charge of a bovine animal 
exposed in a market, fairground, or saleyard, which appears to 
him to be 



TUBERCULOSIS ORDER 427 

(i.) suffering from tuberculosis of the udder, indurated 

udder, or other chronic disease of the udder ; or 
(ii.) emaciated from tuberculosis, 

require the animal to be removed from the market, fairground, or 
saleyard to the premises from which it was brought thereto, or if 
the owner or person in charge so desires, to any other suitable 
premises, to be specified in the notice, and thereupon the animal 
shall forthwith be moved by the owner or person in charge to those 
premises for the purpose of examination under the foregoing pro- 
visions of this Order. 

(2) Where the premises to which the animal is required under 
this Article to be moved are not in the same district as the market, 
fairground, or saleyard, the Inspector serving the notice shall forth- 
with send a copy of the notice to the Local Authority of the district 
in which the first-mentioned premises are situate. 

Cleansing and Disinfection. 

11. The occupier of any premises on which there has been a 
cow suffering from tuberculosis of the udder or giving tuberculous 
milk, or a bovine animal emaciated from tuberculosis, shall if so 
required in writing by an Inspector of the Local Authority cleanse 
and disinfect at his own expense, and to the satisfaction of 
the Inspector, that part of any shed or other erection in which 
the animal has recently been placed or kept. 

Reports to the Board. 

12. Every Local Authority and their Inspectors and officers 
shall send and give to the Board such reports, returns, and in- 
formation as to their proceedings under this Order as the Board 
require. 

Extension of certain Sections of Diseases of Animals Act, 1894. 

13. Tuberculosis shall be a disease for the purposes of the 
following sections of the Act of 1894 (namely) : 

Sections nineteen and twenty (slaughter and compensation) ; 

Section forty-three (powers of police) ; 

Section forty -four (powers of inspectors) ; 

and also for the purposes of all other sections of the said Act 
containing provisions relative to or consequent on the provisions of 
those sections and this Order, including such sections as relate to 
offences or procedure. 

Offences. 

14. Every person whp 

(i.) fails to give the notice required by Article 2 of this 
Order ; or 



428 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

(ii.) fails to comply with any provision of this Order, or 
any direction given by the Board under this Order, 
relating to precautions to be adopted with respect 
to milk or relating to detention and isolation of 
animals ; or 

(iii.) fails to comply with any notice directing removal of 
an animal from a market, fairground, or sale- 
yard ; or 
(iv.) fails to cleanse or disinfect any erection which under 

this Order he is required to cleanse or disinfect ; 
shall, according to and in respect of his own acts and defaults, be 
deemed guilty of an offence against the Act of 1894. 

Extent. 

15. This Order extends to England and Wales and Scotland. 

Local Authority to Enforce Order. 

1 6. The provisions of this Order, except where it is otherwise 
provided, shall be executed and enforced by the Local Authority. 

Commencement. 

17. This Order shall come into operation on the first day of 
January, nineteen hundred and ten. 

Short Title. 

18. This Order may be cited as the TUBERCULOSIS ORDER of 
1909. 



SCHEDULE 

FORMS 

TUBERCULOSIS ORDER OF 1909 

Form of Notice of Intended Slaughter. 

(Article 4) 

To of 

The Local Authority for the county [borough or burgh] of 

hereby give notice that they 

are satisfied that [insert description of animal] which is now kept at 
[insert description of premises where it is kept, stating parish] is 

''() suffering from tuberculosis of. the udder; 

*(&) giving tuberculous milk ; 

*(c) is emaciated from tuberculosis, 



TUBERCULOSIS ORDER 429 

and that they propose with all convenient speed to slaughter the 
animal. 

* Strike out part which is inapplicable. 

(Signed) 

By direction of the Local Authority. 

Dated ,19 . 

Note. If the owner of the animal, or any person on his behalf, 
gives notice in writing to the Local Authority, or to their Inspector 
or other officer directed to carry out the slaughter, that the owner 
objects to the animal being slaughtered, it may not be slaughtered 
without the special authority of the Board first obtained. 

The compensation payable by the Local Authority is regulated 
by the Order. 

TUBERCULOSIS ORDER or 1909 

Form of Certificate of Result of Post-mortem Examination. 

(Article 6) 

I, A. B., a Veterinary Inspector of the Local Authority for the 
county [borough or burgh] of [or a veterinary 

surgeon acting under the Tuberculosis Order of 1909], do hereby 
certify that my examination of the carcase of [here describe animal 
slaughtered], which was caused to be slaughtered by the Local 
Authority for the county [borough or burgh] of , 

on the day of 19 , and which 

animal belonged to , of 

, does not show that the animal 

was affected with tuberculosis [or shows that the animal was 
affected with tuberculosis (not being advanced tuberculosis within 
the meaning of the Tuberculosis Order of 1909) or shows that 
the animal was suffering from advanced tuberculosis within the 
meaning of the Tuberculosis Order of 1 909]. 

(Signed) A. B. 

Dated ,19 . 



APPENDIX III 



DENMARK 

ACT OF FEBRUARY 5, 1904, CONTAINING MEASURES AGAINST 
TUBERCULOSIS AMONG CATTLE AND PIGS l 

A SUM of 100,000 kr., granted every year by the Eigsdag (Parlia- 
ment) on the recommendation of the Committee of Ways and 
Means, shall be placed at the disposal of the Minister of Agri- 
culture for the support of cattle -farmers who wish to employ 
tuberculin as a diagnostic remedy in combating tuberculosis among 
their cattle, the tuberculin test being applied according to detailed 
regulations issued by the Minister. The support shall be granted 
to none but such farmers as guarantee their ability to keep the 
animals, proved by the test to be healthy, safely isolated from the 
animals affected by tuberculosis, or which have not been subjected 
to the tuberculin test. 

The Minister of Agriculture shall on the same conditions 
be entitled to employ part of the sum to support cattle-breeding 
associations which wish to subject the animals selected for breeding 
purposes to the tuberculin test, as well as to support farmers' 
associations desiring to subject cows belonging to cottagers to the 
tuberculin test. 

Farmers who do not fulfil their obligations with regard to 
isolation shall return to the State the grants which have been 
made to them in accordance with the above provisions. 

Any veterinary surgeon superintending the application of the 
tuberculin test on a farm shall satisfy himself, under penalty of a 
fine, that safe isolation between the animals is established, and if 
his orders to this effect are not obeyed by the farmer, he shall 
notify this to the chief veterinary surgeon of the country. 

Applications from cattle -farmers, cattle-breeding associations, 
and farmers' associations desiring to take advantage of the oppor- 

1 As printed in Professor Bang's paper, Sixth International Congress on 
Tuberculosis, vol. iv. part ii. p. 865. 

430 



APP. in DANISH TUBERCULOSIS ACT 431 

tunity offered to them by this Act of having their cattle subjected 
to the tuberculin test shall be sent direct to the Minister of Agri- 
culture. 

Sec. 2. Importation of live cattle from abroad shall only take 
place at such places as are mentioned in the regulations issued by 
the Minister of Agriculture. Immediately after their arrival the 
animals shall be quarantined, and shall, in accordance with the 
regulations of the veterinary police, be subjected to the tuberculin 
test, according to regulations issued by the Minister of Agriculture, 
within five days after their arrival at the quarantine stable. After 
the test the non-reacting animals shall be left at the disposal of 
the owner, while the reacting animals shall either be returned or 
taken direct to a public slaughter-house, or to a slaughter-house 
recognised by the Minister of Agriculture, where same shall be 
destroyed under control of the veterinary police. The expenses 
incurred in providing the requisite quarantine stables at the places 
of import, as well as the expenses of the tuberculin tests, but none 
of the expenses attendant on the other measures mentioned in this 
section, shall be borne by the State. 

The regulations relating to tuberculin tests, mentioned in Sec. 1, 
shall also apply to such other diagnostic remedies as may be recom- 
mended by veterinary authorities for the combating of tuberculosis 
among cattle, and are approved by the Minister of Agriculture. 

Sec. 3. Animals imported for killing purposes may be ex- 
empted from quarantining and the tuberculin tests ordered in 
Sec. 2. Such animals shall, after having been branded (see Sec. 4), 
be taken direct to a public slaughter-house or to a slaughter-house 
recognised by the Minister of Agriculture. 

The Minister of Agriculture shall be entitled to permit cattle 
imported for killing purposes after having been marked being 
taken direct to a cattle-market, where the animals shall be stabled 
so as to be, in the opinion of the veterinary police, duly isolated 
from all other cattle. From this place they shall be taken direct 
to a public slaughter-house or to a slaughter-house recognised by 
the Minister of Agriculture. The animals imported for killing 
purposes mentioned in this section shall be killed within ten days 
after their arrival in this country. 

Sec. 4. The Minister of Agriculture shall issue regulations for 
the marking of the imported animals. 

Sec. 5. Cows suffering from tuberculosis of the udder shall be 
killed, in accordance with the regulations of the State, under con- 
trol of the veterinary police or in a public slaughter-house. The 
owner shall be entitled to a compensation for the animal, amount- 
ing to one-third of the market value of the carcase, calculated at 
the current price, according to regulations issued by the Minister 
of Agriculture. The owner shall further be entitled to a com- 



432 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. m 

pensation for such parts of the animal as are declared by the 
veterinary surgeon to be unfit for human consumption, amounting 
to half of the value of the condemned meat, calculated as above. 
Such parts of the animal as are declared fit for human consumption 
shall be left at the disposal of the owner. The compensation as 
well as the expenses attendant on the killing shall be paid by the 
State. 

Sec. 6.- None but such milk and buttermilk as has been heated 
to a temperature of at least 64 Reaumur (80 C.) shall be returned 
from dairies to serve as food for cattle and pigs. Exceptions from 
this rule may take place when the heating cannot be performed on 
account of an accident, which fact shall be made known to the 
person to whom the milk is to be returned. The heating men- 
tioned in this section shall also apply to all cream destined for the 
making of butter for exportation. The sediment scraped off the 
sides of the cream-separator during the cleaning of the same shall 
be burned. 

Sec. 7. None but such milk and buttermilk as has been suffi- 
ciently proved in the opinion of the Minister of Agriculture to have 
been heated to a temperature of at least 64 Reaumur (80 C.) 
shall be imported from abroad. The Minister of Agriculture shall, 
however, be entitled to grant exemption from the above prohibition 
when special circumstances necessitate it. 

Sec. 8. The carrying out of the provisions of this Act shall be 
enforced by the veterinary police, the custom-house officers, and 
the butter and margarine inspectors, in accordance with the 
directions of the Minister of Agriculture. 

Sec-. 9. Offenders against the provisions of Sees. 1, 2, 3, 
6, and 7 shall be liable to fines of from 10 to 20 kr. for the first 
offence ; in case of repetition, to fines of from 20 to 200 kr. Re- 
peated offences against Sec. 6 shall not be looked upon as such if 
at least one year has elapsed since the offender was last fined. 
The fines shall accrue to the exchequer. The proceedings in these 
cases shall be summary. In the case mentioned in Sec. 7 the pro- 
hibited articles shall be confiscated and heated to the temperature 
defined in the above section. In Copenhagen the proceeds of the 
sale of such articles shall accrue to the municipal fund ; in other 
places, to the poor fund. 

Sec. 10. This Act, which shall not apply to the Faroe Islands, 
shall come into force October 1, 1904. 



APPENDIX IV 

MILK AND DAIRIES BILL 

MEMORANDUM 

THE main objects of this Bill are to provide for 

(1) The more effective registration of dairies and dairymen; 

(2) The inspection of dairies and the examination of cows 

therein ; 

(3) The prohibition of the supply of milk from a dairy where 

such a supply has caused or would be likely to cause 
infectious diseases, including tuberculosis ; 

(4) The prevention of the sale of tuberculous milk ; 

(5) The regulation of the importation of milk so as to prevent 

danger to public health arising therefrom ; 

(6) The issue of regulations for securing the supply of pure 

and wholesome milk ; 

(7) The establishment by local authorities in populous places 

of milk depots for the sale of milk specially prepared for 
infants. 

The provisions as to registration supersede the provisions as to 
the registration of dairies contained in the Contagious Diseases 
(Animals) Acts and the orders made thereunder. 

The provisions as to the inspection of dairies and the prohi- 
bition of the supply of milk reproduce with amendment section 4 
of the Infectious Diseases Prevention Act, 1890, section 71 of the 
Public Health (London). Act, 1891, and the model milk clauses 
incorporated in many local Acts. 

The clause as to the prevention of the sale of tuberculous milk 
is also taken from the model milk clauses, but the scope of the 
enactment is somewhat extended. 

The Board of Agriculture and Fisheries will in connection with 
this Bill issue an order under the Diseases of Animals Act, 1894, 
dealing with the notification of tuberculosis in cattle and the in- 
spection, examination, detention, isolation, and slaughter of tuber- 
culous cattle, and the giving of compensation in appropriate cases. 

433 2F 



434 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 
ARRANGEMENT OF CLAUSES 

Clause. 

1. Registration of dairies and dairymen. 

2. Inspection of dairies and prohibition of supply of milk. 

3. Prohibition of sale of tuberculous milk. 

4. Power to take samples of milk. 

5. Appointment of veterinary inspectors. 

6. Power of Local Government Board to make orders. 

7. Amendment of Sale of Food and Drugs Acts as to warranties 

in the case of milk. 

8. Regulations as to imported milk. 

9. Establishment of milk depots. 

10. Enforcement of duties of local authorities. 

1 1 . Service of notices. 

12. Expenses of local authorities. 

13. Provisions as to offences. 

14. Interpretation. 

15. Application to London. 

16. Application to Ireland. 

17. Short title, commencement, extent, and repeal. 
SCHEDULE. 

A BILL TO MAKE BETTER PROVISION WITH RESPECT TO THE SALE 
OF MlLK AND THE REGULATION OF DAIRIES 

Be it enacted by the King's most Excellent Majesty, by and 
with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, 
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the 
authority of the same, as follows : 

1. (1) A person shall not carry on the trade of dairyman in 
any dairy within the district of a sanitary authority unless he and 
the dairy are registered with the sanitary authority in accordance 
with this Act and the orders made thereunder, and if he does so 
he shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on summary 
conviction to a fine not exceeding five pounds : 

Provided that 

(a) in the case of a farm comprising several cowsheds it 

shall not be necessary to register each cowshed as a 
separate dairy : 

(b) in the case of a purveyor of milk not having a dairy 

within the meaning of this Act, the place where he 
keeps the vessels used by him for the purpose of the 
sale of milk shall be deemed to be a dairy for the 
purposes of this section. 

(2) The sanitary authority may remove any dairy from the 
register, or may refuse to register any premises as a dairy if 



MILK AND DAIRIES BILL 435 

(a) the premises become or are unsuitable to the purposes of 

the business carried on or proposed to be carried on 
therein ; or 

(b) the premises are a nuisance or do not comply with the 

provisions of this Act or the orders made thereunder ; 

but any person who feels himself aggrieved by such 

removal or refusal may appeal to a court of summary 

jurisdiction, which may, if it thinks just, make an 

order requiring the sanitary authority to restore the 

dairy to, or enter the dairy in, the register. 

(3) On the second or subsequent conviction of a dairyman of 

an offence against this Act or the orders made thereunder the 

court by which he is convicted may, if it thinks fit, having regard 

to the nature of the offences of which he has been convicted, in 

addition to or in substitution for any other penalty, order that the 

name of the offender be removed from the register of dairymen 

either absolutely or for such period as may be specified in the 

order. 

2. (1) If the milk from any dairy is being sold or used for 
human consumption within the district of any sanitary authority, 
the medical officer of health for that district shall, whether the 
dairy is situate within or without the district, have power at all 
reasonable hours to enter and inspect the dairy, and if accompanied 
by a veterinary inspector or some other properly qualified veterinary 
surgeon, to inspect the animals therein : 

Provided that if the dairy is not situate within the district of 
the sanitary authority the medical officer of health shall not be 
empowered so to enter and inspect the dairy unless he has evidence 
that infectious disease is caused, or is likely to be caused, by con- 
sumption of the milk supplied from the dairy, and shall, before 
inspecting the dairy, give notice of the intention to do so to the 
clerk and medical officer of health of the district in which the dairy 
is situate. 

(2) If on any such inspection the medical officer of health or 
the veterinary inspector or surgeon has reason to suspect that any 
cow in the dairy is suffering from tuberculosis with emaciation or 
from tuberculosis of the udder, or is giving tuberculous milk, he 
may require the cow to be milked in his presence, and may take 
samples of the milk, and the milk from any particular teat shall, 
if he so requires, be kept separate and separate samples thereof 
furnished. 

(3) Every dairyman and the persons in his employment shall 
render such reasonable assistance to the medical officer of health 
or a veterinary inspector or veterinary surgeon as he may require 
for all or any of the purposes of this section, and any person 
refusing such assistance or obstructing such medical officer of 



436 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

health or veterinary inspector or veterinary surgeon in carrying 
out the provisions of this section shall on summary conviction be 
liable to a fine not exceeding five pounds. 

(4) If on any such inspection the medical officer of health is 
of opinion that infectious disease is caused or is likely to be 
caused by consumption of the milk supplied from the dairy, or of 
the milk of any particular cow kept therein, he shall report thereon 
to the sanitary authority, and to the Local Government Board, and 
his report shall be accompanied by any report furnished to him by 
the veterinary inspector or veterinary surgeon, and the medical 
officer of health, if he considers the case to be one of urgency on 
account of the spread or suspected spread of infectious disease, 
may, pending the decision of the sanitary authority, 

(a) agree on behalf of the sanitary authority with the dairy- 

man, that the dairyman shall, on such terms and to 
such extent and subject to such conditions as may be 
agreed, stop the supply and use of milk from his dairy 
or from any particular cow kept therein ; or 

(b) make an interim order prohibiting the supply for human 

consumption, or the use, or supply for use, in the 
manufacture of products for human consumption, of 
milk from the dairy or from any particular cow kept 
therein, until the expiration of such time not exceed- 
ing ten days, as may be specified in the order, either 
absolutely or unless such conditions as may be pre- 
scribed in the order are complied with ; or 

(c) refer the matter to the sanitary authority, 

and where the matter is so referred to them the sanitary authority 
may, pending their final decision, make such interim agreement or 
order as the medical officer of health might have made. 

(5) On the receipt of such a report the sanitary authority may 
serve on the dairyman notice to appear before them within such 
time, not less than twenty-four hours, as may be specified in the 
notice, to show cause why an order should not be made prohibiting 
him, either absolutely or unless such conditions as may be pre- 
scribed in the order are complied with, from supplying for human 
consumption, or using, or supplying for use, in the manufacture of 
products for human consumption, any milk from the dairy or from 
any particular cow kept therein until the order has been withdrawn 
in accordance with the provisions of this section. 

(6) The sanitary authority, if in their opinion the dairyman 
fails to show such cause, may make such order as aforesaid specify- 
ing the ground on which the order is made, and shall forthwith 
serve a copy of the order on the dairyman, and shall serve notice 
of the facts on the council of the county in which the dairy is 
situate, arid on the Local Government Board, the Board of Agri- 



MILK AND DAIRIES BILL 437 

culture and Fisheries, and, if the dairy is situate within the district 
of another sanitary authority, also on that authority. 

(7) If any dairyman, whilst any interim or other order made 
under this section of which he has notice is in force, supplies or 
uses any milk in contravention of the order, he shall, on summary 
conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding five pounds, but a dairy- 
man shall not be liable to an action for breach of contract if the 
breach is due to any such order. 

(8) An interim or other order made under this section shall 
be forthwith withdrawn on the sanitary authority or their medical 
officer of health being satisfied that the milk supply has been 
changed or that it is not likely to cause infectious disease, and the 
medical officer of health shall have power to withdraw any interim 
order made by himself and, if so authorised by the sanitary author- 
ity, any other order made under this section. 

(9) The dairyman may appeal against an order, other than 
an interim order, made under this section or a refusal to withdraw 
any such order 

(a) to the Local Government Board, if the order is made on 

the ground that an infectious disease (other than 
tuberculosis or any other disease with respect to which 
the Local Government Board order that the appeal in 
all cases should be to the Board of Agriculture and 
Fisheries) was or was likely to be caused by the con- 
sumption of milk from the dairy or from any cow 
kept therein ; and 

(b) in any other case, to the Board of Agriculture and 

Fisheries ; 

and on any such appeal the officer appointed by the Board to 
hear the appeal shall report to the Board, and the Board may 
confirm, vary, or withdraw the order which is the subject of the 
appeal, and may direct to and by whom the costs of the appeal are 
to be paid, and the Board may at any stage of the proceedings 
require the dairyman to pay such sum as the Board consider 
proper to secure the payment of the expenses incurred by the 
Board in the matter of the appeal, and the expenses so incurred by 
the Board (including the remuneration of the officer appointed to 
hear the appeal not exceeding three guineas a day) shall be treated 
as part of the costs of the appeal. Pending the decision of the 
appeal, the order shall remain in force unless previously withdrawn. 

(10) For the purposes of an appeal under this section the Local 
Government Board and the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, 
and any officer appointed by either such Board, shall have the same 
powers as the Local Government Board and their inspectors have 
for the purposes of an inquiry under the Public Health Acts. 

(11) If any order is made under this section either by the 



438 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

medical officer of health or by the sanitary authority without due 
cause, or if the sanitary authority or medical officer of health 
unreasonably refuse to withdraw any such order, the dairyman 
shall, if not himself in default, be entitled to recover from the 
sanitary authority full compensation for any damage which he has 
sustained by reason of the making of the order, or of the refusal 
to withdraw the order, and in the case of an appeal the Board to 
whom the appeal is made may determine and state whether an 
order the subject of appeal has been made without due cause, and 
whether the withdrawal of the order has been unreasonably refused, 
and whether the dairyman has been in default. 

(12) Any dispute as to the fact whether the order has been 
made or maintained without due cause, or as to the fact of default 
(where any such fact has not been determined on appeal by the 
Board to whom the appeal is made), or as to the fact of damage, 
or as to the amount of compensation, shall be determined in the 
manner provided by section three hundred and eight of the Public 
Health Act, 1875, and that section shall accordingly apply and 
have effect as if the same were herein re-enacted and in terms made 
applicable to any such dispute as aforesaid. 

(13) Where a sanitary authority have delegated their powers 
under this section to a committee anything authorised or required 
by this section to be done to or by the authority shall be done to 
or by the committee. 

3. (1) If a person 

(a) knowingly sells, or offers or exposes for sale, or suffers 

to be sold or offered or exposed for sale, for human 

consumption or for use in the manufacture of products 

for human consumption ; or 

(&) knowingly uses or suffers to be used in the manufacture 

of products for human consumption : 

tuberculous milk or the milk of any cow which is suffering from 
tuberculosis of the udder, or which is emaciated from tuberculosis, 
he shall for each offence be liable on summary conviction to a fine 
not exceeding ten pounds, unless he proves that the milk has been 
boiled or otherwise sterilised. 

(2) Any dairyman after he becomes aware that any cow in his 
dairy is suffering from tuberculosis with emaciation, or from tuber- 
culosis of the udder, or is giving tuberculous milk, shall, so far as is 
practicable, not keep that cow or permit it to be kept in any field, 
shed, or other premises along with other cows in milk, and if he 
does so shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed- 
ing Jive pounds. 

4. (1) It shall be lawful for an inspector of the Local Govern- 
ment Board, or the medical officer of health of a county or of any 
sanitary district, or any person provided with and, if required, 



iv MILK AND DAIRIES BILL 439 

exhibiting an authority in writing from such an inspector or 
medical officer of health, to take for examination samples of 
milk: 

Provided that the powers of a medical officer of health and of 
a person authorised by him under this section shall, except so far 
as the Local Government Board may by order otherwise direct, be 
exerciseable only within the county or district for which the 
medical officer of health acts. 

(2) If any person obstructs a medical officer of health or person 
authorised by him in the execution of his powers under this section, 
he shall on summary conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding 
five pounds. 

5. The Local Government Board may, by order, require the 
council of any county, borough, or urban district to appoint, or 
combine with another such council in appointing, for the purposes 
of this Act, one or more veterinary inspectors, or to employ for 
those purposes any inspector or other officer appointed by the council 
under the Diseases of Animals Act, 1894. 

6. (1) The Local Government Board, after consultation with 
the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, may make such general or 
special orders as they think fit for the purpose of carrying this Act 
into effect, and, in particular, with respect to all or any of the 
following matters : 

(a) The registration with the sanitary authority of dairies 

and dairymen, including the inspection and taking 
copies of and making extracts from the registers, and 
the fees to be charged in respect of any such matters ; 

(b) The inspection and examination of dairies and cows 

therein ; 

(c) The lighting, ventilation, cleansing, drainage, water 

supply, floor space, air space, and construction of 
floors, of dairies ; 

(d) The prevention of impurities in milk intended for human 

consumption and the cleanliness of vessels used for or 
containing such milk ; 

(e) The measures to be taken for cooling milk and other- 

wise for protecting milk against infection or con- 
tamination ; 

(/) The prohibition or regulation of the use of preservatives 
in milk ; 

(g) The manner of conveyance of milk intended for sale for 
human consumption and the identification of churns 
and vessels used for the conveyance of such milk ; 

(h) The prohibition or regulation of the mixing of the milk 
in one such churn or vessel with the milk in another 
such churn or vessel ; 



440 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

(i) The labelling of the receptacles of milk for sale for 

human consumption where the milk is sold otherwise 

than in its natural state ; 
(j) The provision of assistance to be given by sanitary 

authorities to county councils and by county councils 

to sanitary authorities, in carrying out their duties 

under this Act ; 
(k) The form of orders to be made by sanitary authorities 

and medical officers of health under this Act ; 
(I) The qualifications, duties, salaries, and tenure of office of 

veterinary inspectors ; 
(m) The authorities by whom the orders are to be executed 

and enforced, and the powers of entry and inspection 

exerciseable by such authorities and their officers for 

the purpose. 

(2) Orders made under this section may impose on persons con- 
travening the provisions thereof such fines recoverable summarily 
as may be specified in the order, not exceeding five pounds for 
each offence, and in the case of a continuing offence, a further 
fine not exceeding forty shillings for each day during which the 
offence continues. 

(3) All general orders made under this section shall be laid as 
soon as may be before Parliament, and the Rules Publication Act, 
1893, shall apply to such orders as if they were statutory rules 
within the meaning of section one of that Act. 

(4) If the occupier of a dairy alleges that the whole or part of 
the expenses of complying with any order under this section ought 
to be borne by the owner of or other person interested in the dairy, 
he may by complaint apply to a court of summary jurisdiction, 
and that court may make such order concerning the expenses or 
their apportionment as appears to the court to be just and equitable 
under the circumstances of the case, regard being had to the terms 
of any contract between the parties. 

7. A warranty or invoice shall not be available as a defence 
to any proceedings under the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, 1875 to 
1907, where the article in respect of which the proceedings are 
taken is milk. 

8. The Local Government Board shall make regulations under 
the Public Health (Regulations as to Food) Act, 1907, for the 
prevention of danger arising to public health from the importation 
of milk intended for sale for human consumption. 

9. (1) The sanitary authority of any district (other than a 
rural district) with a population of fifty thousand or upwards may, 
subject to regulations under this section, establish and thereafter 
maintain depots for the sale of milk specially prepared for con- 



iv MILK AND DAIRIES BILL 441 

sumption by infants under two years of age, and purchase and 
prepare milk and provide such laboratories, plant, and other things, 
and exercise and perform such other powers and duties, as may be 
necessary for the purposes of this section. 

This provision shall extend to any district (other than a rural 
district) with a population of less than fifty thousand but not less 
than ten thousand, if the sanitary authority of the district make an 
application for the purpose to the Local Government Board and the 
Board consent. 

(2) The Local Government Board may make regulations for 
carrying into effect this section, and those regulations may (amongst 
other things) contain provisions 

(a) as to the sources of the milk to be obtained ; 

(b) as to the nature of the milk to be supplied ; 

(c) as to the manner in which, and the conditions under 

which, the milk is to be purchased, collected, conveyed, 
delivered, prepared, stored, and sold, including the 
classes of persons to be supplied, and the prices which 
may be charged on sale ; 

(d) as to the plant and other things to be provided, and as 

to the purposes for which, and the manner in which, 
and the conditions under which, they may be used ; 

(e) as to the statistical and other records to be kept ; 

(/) as to the visitation of the homes of the persons supplied, 
and as to any other mode of obtaining particulars 
prescribed by the regulations with regard to those 
persons ; 

(g) authorising and regulating the acquisition and appro- 
priation of land for the purposes of this section, and 
the disposal of any land so acquired ; 

" (h) in the case of the Common Council and the council 
of a municipal borough, as to the accounts of receipts 
and expenditure under this Act to be kept by every 
such council, and as to the audit of those accounts 
in the same manner and subject to the same pro- 
visions as to any matters incidental to the audit or 
consequential thereon as the accounts of a county 
council ; 

(i) authorising and regulating the borrowing of money by 
a sanitary authority for the purposes of this section ; 

(j) as to the employment of officers ; 

(k) authorising the holding of local inquiries by the Local 
Government Board for the purposes of this section, 
and requiring returns and reports to be made to the 
Board ; 

(I) facilitating the co-operation of any sanitary authority 



442 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

having powers under this section with any other such 
authority, and the provision of assistance by one such 
authority to another ; 

(m) applying for the purposes of this section, as respects 
any matters to be dealt with by regulations, any 
provisions in any Act of Parliament dealing with 
the like matters, with the necessary modifications or 
adaptations. 

Regulations so made shall be applicable to all authorities 
having powers under this section, except so far as may be other- 
wise provided by the regulations. 

(3) Population for the purposes of this section shall be calcu- 
lated according to the returns of the last published census for the 
time being. 

10. ( 1 ) If on a complaint to the council of a county in which 
a county district is situate 

(a) from any four inhabitant householders of the county 

district ; or 

(b) from the parish council or parish meeting of any parish 

within the district ; or 

(c) from the sanitary authority of a district within which 

milk is supplied from any dairy in the county district ; 
it appears to the county council, after holding a local inquiry, that 
the council of the county district have failed to fulfil their duties, 
whether as sanitary authority or otherwise, under this Act, the 
county council may pass a resolution to that effect, and thereupon 
the powers and duties of the council of the county district shall 
be transferred from that council to the county council, and the 
county council shall proceed to put in force the powers and duties 
so transferred. 

(2) All expenses incurred by the county council in executing 
this section in any county district shall be paid in the first 
instance out of the county fund as expenses for general county 
purposes, but shall, on demand, be repaid to the county council by 
the council of the county district. 

(3) If the council of a county or county borough fail to fulfil 
any of their duties under this Act, whether imposed on the council 
by this Act, or in the case of a county council transferred to the 
council from the council of a county district under this section, the 
Local Government Board may, after holding a local inquiry, make 
such order as they think necessary or proper for the purpose of 
compelling the council to fulfil their duties, and any such order may 
be enforced by mandamus. 

(4) If on a complaint to the Local Government Board 

() from any four inhabitant householders of any county 
district ; or 



MILK AND DAIRIES BILL 443 

(b) from the parish council or parish meeting of any parish 

within a county district ; or 

(c) from the sanitary authority of a district within which 

milk is supplied from any dairy in a county dis- 
trict; or 

(d) from the council of the county in which a county district 

is situated, 

it appears to the Local Government Board, after holding a local 
inquiry, that the council of that county district have failed to fulfil 
their duties, whether as sanitary authority or otherwise, under this 
Act, the Board may by order declare the council to be in default, 
and may either 

(i.) make an order directing the council within a time limited 
by the order to take such action or do such things 
as may be specified in the order for the purpose of 
remedying the default, and any such order may be 
enforced by mandamus, or 

(ii.) make an order empowering the person named therein 
to perform the duties of the council, and upon such 
appointment sections two hundred and ninety -nine 
to three hundred and two of the Public Health Act, 
1875, shall apply. 

11. (1) Any notice, order, or other document required or 
authorised to be served under this Act may be served by 
delivering the same or a true copy thereof either to or at the 
usual or last -known residence of the person to whom it is 
addressed, or where addressed to the owner or occupier of 
premises, then to some person on the premises, or, if there is no 
person on the premises who can be served, then by fixing the same 
or a true copy thereof on some conspicuous part of the premises ; 
it may also be served' by sending the same or a true copy thereof 
by post addressed to a person at such residence or premises as 
above mentioned. 

(2) Any notice required or authorised for the purposes of this 
Act to be served on a sanitary authority shall be deemed to be 
duly served if in writing delivered at, or sent by post to, the office 
of the authority or council, addressed to the authority or council, 
or their clerk. 

(3) Any notice by this Act required to be given to or served 
on the owner or occupier of any premises may be addressed by the 
description of the " owner " or " occupier " of the premises (naming 
them) in respect of which the notice is given or served without 
further name or description. 

12. The expenses of local authorities under this Act shall be 
defrayed 

(a) in the case of a county council, out of the county fund ; 



444 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

(b) in the case of the Common Council, out of the general 

rate; 

(c) in the case of the council of a metropolitan borough, 

as part of the expenses incurred by the council in 
the execution of the Public Health (London) Act, 
1891; 

(d) in the case of the council of a municipal borough or 

urban or rural district, as part of their general ex- 
penses incurred in the execution of the Public Health 
Acts. 

13. (1) Proceedings against a dairyman for failure to comply 
with an order made by a sanitary authority or a medical officer of 
health requiring the dairyman not to supply milk from a dairy or 
from any cow in a dairy may be taken before a court of summary 
jurisdiction either in the place where the offence was committed or 
in the place where the dairy is situated, and shall be taken only 
by the authority by whom or by whose medical officer of health 
the order was made or by the sanitary authority of the district in 
which the dairy is situate. 

(2) Where a person is convicted of an offence under this Act, 
and the offence is a continuing offence, the offender shall be liable, 
in addition to any fine which may be imposed under this Act in 
respect of the offence, to a further fine not exceeding forty shillings 
for each day during which the offence continues. 
14. (1) In this Act 

The expression " dairy " includes any farm, farm-house, cow- 
shed, milk-store, milk-shop, or other place from which 
milk is supplied, or in which for purposes of sale or 
manufacture into butter or cheese milk is kept or 
used ; 

The expression " dairyman " includes any cow-keeper, pur- 
veyor of milk, or occupier of a dairy, but shall not 
include a person who only sells milk of his own cows 
in small quantities to his workmen or neighbours for 
their accommodation ; 

The expression "medical officer of health" includes any 
person duly authorised to act temporarily as medical 
officer of health ; 

The expression " milk " includes cream ; 

The expression " infectious disease " means small-pox, cholera, 
diphtheria, membranous croup, erysipelas, tuberculosis, 
the disease known as scarlatina or scarlet fever, and 
the fevers known by any of the following names, 
typhus, typhoid, enteric, relapsing, continued, and in- 
cludes any other disease prescribed by an order made 
by the Local Government Board under this Act ; 



iv MILK AND DAIRIES BILL 445 

The expression " Common Council " means the mayor, alder- 
men, and commons of the City of London in Common 
Council assembled. 

(2) Where milk is sold or exposed or kept for sale it shall be 
presumed to be sold or exposed or kept for sale for human con- 
sumption or for use in the manufacture of products for human 
consumption, unless the contrary is proved. 

15. (1) The powers and duties of metropolitan borough 
councils as sanitary authorities with respect to the registration of 
dairymen shall be exercised and performed subject to any by- 
laws which may be made for the purpose by the London County 
Council. 

(2) The provisions of this Act with respect to the inspection 
of dairies and prohibition of the supply of milk, and the enforce- 
ment of duties of local authorities, shall apply to London, subject 
to such modifications as may be made by regulations of the Local 
Government Board, and such regulations may provide for any of 
the powers and duties of sanitary authorities and their medical 
officers of health under those provisions with respect to dairies 
situate outside London being exercised and performed by the 
London County Council, and the medical officer of health of the 
London County Council, or by some person appointed by him for 
the purpose. 

(3) Any provisions of the Public Health Act, 1875, applied by 
this Act shall, for the purposes for which they are so applied, 
extend to London. 

16. This Act in its application to Ireland shall be subject to 
the following modifications : 

(1) The Local Government Board for Ireland shall be substi- 

tuted for the Local Government Board : 

(2) The Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction 

for Ireland shall be substituted for the Board of Agri- 
culture and Fisheries : 

(3) References to the Public Health (Ireland) Acts, 1878 to 

1907, shall be substituted for references to the Public 
Health Acts ; a reference to section two hundred and 
seventy-four of the Public Health (Ireland) Act, 1878, 
shall be substituted for the reference to section three 
hundred and eight of the Public Health Act, 1875, 
and a reference to section fifteen of the Public Health 
(Ireland) Act, 1896, shall be substituted for the refer- 
ence to sections two hundred and ninety-nine to three 
hundred and two of the Public Health Act, 1875 : 

(4) The expression " medical officer of health " means as 

regards any sanitary district for which a medical super- 
intendent officer of health is appointed that officer, and 



446 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. iv 

elsewhere the medical officer of health of the dispensary 
district : 

(5) References to a parish council or to a parish meeting shall 

not apply : 

(6) The expenses of a county council under this Act shall be 

a county at large charge, without prejudice to any right 
under this Act to recover such expenses from the council 
of a county district. 
17. (1) This Act may be cited as the Milk and Dairies Act, 

1909, and shall come into operation on the first day of January 

nineteen hundred and ten. 

(2) This Act shall not extend to Scotland. 

(3) The enactments specified in the Schedule to this Act are 
hereby repealed to the extent mentioned in the third column of 
that Schedule, and there shall also be repealed so much of any 
local Act as deals with any of the matters dealt with by any of the 
provisions of this Act or of the orders made thereunder. 



SCHEDULE 
ENACTMENTS REPEALED 



Session and Chapter. 



Short Title. 



Extent of Repeal. 



41 & 42 Viet. 

c. 74. 



49 & 50 Viet. 
c. 32. 



53 & 54 Viet. 
c. 34. 

54 & 55 Viet, 
c. 76. 

62 & 63 Viet, 
e. 14. 



8 Edw. VII. c. 
56. 



The Contagious Diseases 
(Animals) Act, 1878. 

The Contagious Diseases 
(Animals) Act, 1886. 

The Infectious Diseases 
Prevention Act, 1890. 

The Public Health 
(London) Act, 1891. 

The London Government 
Act, 1899. 



The Tuberculosis Pre- 
vention (Ireland) Act, 
1908. 



So much of the Act as is 
unrepealed except so far 
as it relates to Scotland. 

So much of the Act as is 
unrepealed except so far 
as it relates to Scotland. 

Section four. 



Section twenty-eight. 
Section seventy-one. 

In Part I. of the Second 
Schedule, the last para- 
graph in both columns. 

Section nineteen. 



APPENDIX V 



STATE OF NEW JERSEY 

AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE INCORPORATION OF MEDICAL MlLK 
COMMISSIONS AND THE CERTIFICATION OF MILK PRODUCED 
UNDER THEIR SUPERVISION. 

BE it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the State of 
New Jersey : 

1. Any five or more physicians duly authorised to practise 
medicine under the laws of this State who shall desire to associate 
themselves together for the purpose of supervising the production 
of milk intended for sick-room purposes, infant feeding, and for 
use in hospitals, may make, record, and file a certificate in writing 
in the manner hereinafter mentioned. 

2. Such certificate shall set forth : 

(i.) The name of such association which shall be as herein- 
after designated. 

(ii.) The purposes for which the association shall be formed. 

(iii.) The names and the residences of the medical directors 
who shall manage the affairs of the association for the 
first year of its existence. 

(iv.) The county in this State where such association shall 
operate. 

3. Such certificate shall be proved or acknowledged and re- 
corded as required of deeds of real estate in a book to be kept for 
the recording of certificates of incorporation in the office of the 
clerk of the county where the purposes of such association are to 
be carried out, and after being so recorded, shall be filed in the 
office of the Secretary of State ; said certificate or a copy thereof 
duly certified by the said clerk or Secretary of State shall be 
evidence in all courts or places. 

4. Upon making such certificate and causing the same to be 
recorded and filed as aforesaid, the said physicians so associating 

447 



448 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

themselves together and their successors shall by virtue of this act 
be a body politic and corporate in fact and in law by the name 
stated in such certificate, and by that name they and their suc- 
cessors shall have perpetual succession, with power to sue and be 
sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered unto in all 
courts and places whatsoever, and to make and use a common seal 
at pleasure. 

5. The name of such association shall be the " The Medical Milk 

Commission of (designating name of county) 

county, of New Jersey," and in case more than one association 
shall be organised under this act or otherwise, such subsequent 
association or associations shall use the name designated herein, 
but shall indicate in such name its proper sequence in organisation 
or incorporation by adding thereto the words: "Number Two," 
" Number Three," " Number Four," or as the case may be. 

6. Such medical directors shall have the power from time to 
time to make, alter and amend by-laws not inconsistent with the 
Constitution and Laws of the United States and of this State, 
fixing or altering the number of its medical directors and provid- 
ing for the mode of filling vacancies and removing any member 
from their number and prescribing qualifications for membership 
in the association and the appointment of such agents and officers 
as shall in their judgment tend to promote or advance any purpose 
or purposes of such commission, and to prescribe their respective 
duties and for the regulating of the conditions under which milk 
shall be produced by any dairyman or dairymen under contract 
with such commission. 

Such Medical Milk Commissions shall have power to certify to 
any milk produced under their supervision which shall meet the 
requirements hereinafter mentioned. 

7. No medical director of any association organised under this 
act shall receive, directly or indirectly, from such association or 
dairyman or dairymen producing milk under agreement with such 
commission any salary or emolument or any compensation of any 
kind or character for any services rendered under the provisions of 
this act, and any medical director who shall receive any salary, 
emolument, or compensation of any kind or character for such 
services, shall be liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars 
($100.00), to be recovered in an action of debt by the association 
of which he is a member, and in addition thereto shall be removed 
from his office as a member of said association and thereafter dis- 
qualified from becoming a member of any association incorporated 
under the provisions of this act. 

8. Every such association shall have power to enter into agree- 
ment in writing with any dairyman or dairymen for the production 



CERTIFIED MILK ACT 449 

of milk under the supervision of such association for the purposes 
enumerated in section one hereof, and to prescribe in such agree- 
ment the conditions under which such milk shall be produced, 
which conditions, however, shall not be below the standards of 
purity and quality for " Certified Milk " as fixed by " The American 
Association of Medical Milk Commissions," and the standards for 
milk now fixed or that may hereafter be fixed by the Board of 
Health of the State of New Jersey. In any contract entered into 
by any such commission with any dairyman or dairymen, it may 
be provided that such Medical Milk Commission may designate any 
analysts, chemists, bacteriologists, veterinarians, medical inspectors 
or other persons who in its judgment may be necessary for the 
proper carrying out of the purposes of such commission for employ- 
ment by such dairyman or dairymen and to prescribe and define 
their powers and duties, and that such persons so employed by 
such dairyman or dairymen may be discharged from employment 
whenever such Medical Milk Commission may request such discharge 
or removal in writing. 

9. All containers of any kind or character used in the carrying 
or distribution of milk produced by any dairyman or dairymen 
under contract with any Medical Milk Commission shall have 
attached thereto or placed thereon a certificate or seal bearing the 
name of the Medical Milk Commission with which such dairyman 
or dairymen producing such milk shall be under contract, which 
certificate shall have printed, stamped, or written thereon the day 
or date of the production of the milk contained in any such con- 
tainer and the words " Certified Milk " in plain and legible form. 

10. The work and methods of any Medical Milk Commission 
organised under this act, and of the dairies on which milk is pro- 
duced under contract with any such commission, shall at all times 
be subject to investigation and scrutiny by the Board of Health of 
the State of New Jersey. The secretary of said State Board of 
Health shall be an ex-offido member of every milk commission 
organised under this act. 

11. No person, firm, or corporation shall sell or exchange or 
offer or expose for sale or exchange as and for certified milk any 
milk which is not produced in conformity with the methods and 
regulations prescribed by and which does not bear the certification 
of a Medical Milk Commission, incorporated pursuant to the pro- 
visions of this act or organised or incorporated in some other State 
for the purposes specified in section one hereof, and which is not 
produced in conformity with the methods and regulations for the 
production of certified milk from time to time adopted by the 
American Association of Medical Milk Commissions, and which is 
below the standards of purity and quality for certified milk as 

2G 



450 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. v 

fixed by the American Association of Medical Milk Commissions ; 
and any such person, firm, or corporation violating any of the 
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanour. 

12. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act be 
and the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall take effect 
immediately. 

Approved April 21, 1909. 



APPENDIX VI 

THE under-mentioned Reports and Rules illustrate the precautions 
taken by certain large English milk companies to prevent the milk 
which they handle from acting as a vehicle for the spread of in- 
fectious disease. The forms printed are those in use by Messrs. 
Welford and Sons, London. 



MEDICAL OFFICER'S REPORT 

(The report sheet leaves spaces for the answers to the under -mentioned questions.} 

I. Do you find the occupants of the farm-house, the persons em- 
ployed on the farm and their families in good health ? 

NOTE A. The skin for evidence of eruptive diseases or desquamation. 
NOTE B. The throat for evidence of diphtheria and allied conditions. 
NOTE C. The state of the bowels for typhoid and diarrhoea. 

II. Are any of them suffering from disease of a communicable nature ? 
If so, give name and age, with the nature of such disease, and probable 
source or cause of same. 

III. Do you consider the sanitary conditions of the farm-house and 
premises with the dwellings and other buildings thereon satisfactory ? 

IV. Where is the cooling performed, and is the position of the 
refrigerator satisfactory and the surroundings airy, sweet, and clean ? 

V. Sources of water-supplies. State depth of wells and nature of 
ground. 

(A) For domestic use. 

(B) For cooling. 

(C) For washing utensils. 

(D) For cattle-drinking. 

VI. Is the water-supply satisfactory from a sanitary point of view ? 

VII. If any danger from contamination, please describe it. 

Note. Any suggestion for remedying the same will be much appreciated. 

VIII. What is the general health of the population of the district ? 

IX. Are there any cases of zymotic disease in your district or neigh- 
bourhood ? 



452 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH APP. 

X. Has there been in the district within the past three months any 
cases of a contagious or infectious character 1 If so, to what extent and 
at what distance from the farm ? 

If there are any other matters likely to affect the present or future 
milk-supply from this farm add any remarks or suggestions. 



VETERINARY REPORT 

I. Number of cows in rnilk at date of inspection. Of what breed, 
and number of each breed 1 

II. Are all the cows on the farm in good health and flesh, and 
free from evident signs of tuberculosis ? And what is their general 
appearance ? 

III. Are any of the cows suffering from cough, from disease or 
affections of the udder, from eruptions or chaps on the teats ? 

IV. Are the cows carefully tended and their coats and udders kept 
clean ? 

V. Are any of the cows milking in less than four quarters ? If so, 
state the number of such cows, and specially ascertain cause, and examine 
for traces of disease. 

VI. Do you consider the cows well fed, and with proper food for 
producing good, wholesome milk fit for the delicate digestions of infants 
and invalids ? 

VII. Where is the milking performed ? What are the provisions for 
washing the cows' udders and milkers' hands ? Are they satisfactory, 
and, so far as you can ascertain, strictly enforced ? 

VIII. What is the nature of the water used for cattle-drinking, from 
what source, and do you consider it satisfactory and safe for that 
purpose ? 

IX. Are the cowsheds of ample cubic space, well ventilated and 
drained, and are the cowyards regularly cleansed ? 

X. How much of the year or day is passed by the cows in the fields 
and in open or closed sheds respectively ? 

XI. What is the general health of the cattle in your district ? 

XII. Are there any known cases of tuberculosis in your district ? If 
so, where, and to what extent ? 

XIII. Has there been within the last three months any case of 
pleuro-pneumonia or other infectious cattle disease on the farm or in 
the neighbourhood ? If so, at what date, and what distance from the 
farm 1 

If there are any other matters likely to affect the present or future 
milk-supply from this farm add any remarks or suggestions. 



REPORTS AND RULES 453 

MEDICAL AND SANITARY RULES AND FEVER 
PRECAUTIONS 1 

TO BE OBSERVED BY THE EMPLOYEES OF MESSRS. WELFORD AND 

SONS, LIMITED, ENGAGED AT THEIR FARMS AND DAIRIES 

1. The slightest case of sickness of any kind among your family 
to be immediately reported to your employers. 

2. This is especially necessary in all cases of sore throat, whether 
severe or slight ; and it is most important for you to remember 
that a slight attack of a contagious disease may be as infectious as 
a severe one. 

3. In the event of the illness proving to be of an infectious or 
contagious nature, steps will be taken to prevent any risk of your 
conveying contagion to the milk, and either of the following plans 
may be adopted to prevent your suffering any loss : 

(a) Lodgings may be provided for you elsewhere. 

(b) You may be suspended from work for a period, during 

which time your wages will be paid as usual. 

(c) The rest of your family may be protected from the 

danger of contagion by removing the sick person to a 
cottage set apart for the purpose. 

(d) Or under the direction of the medical officers the sick 

person may be removed to a hospital. 

4. You are specially warned against keeping any dust, ashes, 
garbage, or refuse of any kind, in any room, cupboard, or cellar, or 
in any part of your house or lodgings. 

5. You are also warned against receiving any lodger or visitor 
into your houses, unless you are perfectly certain that such lodger 
or visitor has not recently suffered from, or been in contact with, 
any contagious disease. This particularly applies to children who 
may visit your children, and may be recovering from scarlet fever, 
diphtheria, measles, whooping-cough, or other infectious disease. 

6. All carriers to wash their hands and put on clean smocks 
before starting on their rounds of delivery. 

7. Each carrier is held strictly responsible for the cleanliness 
and good order of cans, churns, and measures used on his particular 
round. 

8. Cases of illness occurring amongst customers are to be im- 
mediately reported by the carrier to the secretary or manager, so 
that the medical officer may be consulted, and his advice taken as 
to serving that particular house. 

9. On no pretence whatever is milk to be served out of a churn 
while it is being conveyed to its destination, except from the tap. 

1 Printed on a card to be hung up in the house. 



454 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH AFP. vi 

10. No person allowed to drink out of a can during the delivery 
of the milk in cans. 

11. Any carrier or other employee disregarding the above rules 
will render himself liable to instant dismissal. 

12. All employees should bear in mind that their employers' 
interest should be their own. 

By order, 

WELFORD AND SONS, LIMITED. 



WEEKLY REPORT FROM THE FARMER 

Date 



To 

Messrs. WELFORD AND SONS. 

DEAR SIRS Above I beg to hand you milk account for last 
week, and inform you that at this date there is no case of sickness 
on my farm or amongst my servants or workmen. The cows used 
for milking purposes are in a perfectly healthy condition, and to 
my knowledge there is no case of fever or illness of an infectious 
nature in the neighbourhood of my farm. I have this day examined 
my milk cooler, and it is in good and sound order. 

Signed ' 



INDEX 



Abdominal tuberculosis, prevalence in 

children, 149 
prevalence in Germany. 150 

Acid-fast bacilli, 43, 215,' 219 

Acidity of milk, degree, 203 
estimation of, 204 
standards for, 203 

Aesculin agar, 182 

Age of cows and composition of the 
milk, 8 

Agglutination tests for bovine tuber- 
culosis, 134 

Air of cowsheds, bacteria in, 21 

American Milk Regulations, 366 

Anthrax and cows, 103 

Apparatus for collecting milk samples, 173 

''Appeal to the cow" test, 401 

Artificial milk preservation methods, 371 

Bacillus acidi lactici, 37 

Bacillus bulgaricus, 37 

Bacillus butrificus, 40 

Baciltus butyricus, 42, 190 

Bacillus coli, as a cause of mastitis; 107 

characters of, 34 

colonies of, 182 

definition of, 34 

estimation in milk, 180, 238 

identification tests for, 183 

multiplication in milk, 53, 56 

presence in relationship to cleanliness 
conditions, 35 

standards for milk, 235, 238 

value of estimation, 35, 231 

varieties of, 185 
Bacillus diphtheriae, in butter, 60 

in cheese, 60 

in cream, 60 

in teat ulcers, 112 

isolated from milk, 78, 224 

multiplication in milk, 58, 60 

thermal death-point, 64 
Bacillus dysenteriae, 64 
Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes, characters 
of, 40 

estimation in milk, 189 



Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes, multi- 
plication in milk, 56 

standards for milk, 238 

value of estimation, 235 
Bacillus enteritidis, 58, 63 
Bacillus lactis acidi, 37 
Bacillus lactis aerogenes, 36, 182, 187 
Bacillus mesentericus vulgatus, 42 
Bacillus mycoides, 42 
Bacillus subtilis, 42 

Bacillus tuberculosis bovinus, characters 
of, 220 

prevalence in man, 144-150 
Bacillus tuberculosis hurnanus, characters 
of, 220 

prevalence in man, 144-150 
Bacillus tuberculosis, detection in milk, 
214 

growth in sterile milk, 61 

in butter, 61, 140, 224 

in cheese, 61, 141 

in condensed milk, 212 

in mastitis of cows, 107 

in milk, 127 et seq. 

in milk, prevalence of, 139, 331, 332 

lesions produced by dead bacilli, 218 

numbers necessary to set up tuber- 
culosis, 133 

types of, 143, 220 
Bacillus typhosus, in butter, 59 

in cheese, 59 

in cream, 59 

isolation from milk, 86, 226 

multiplication in milk, 59 

thermal death-point, 63 
Bacteria, estimation procedure, 177 

in milk at freezing temperature, 49 

in milk from dirty cows, 20 

in milk from dirty milk-vessels, 22 

in milk from milk coolers, 23 

in milk from milkmen's hands, 22 

multiplication in milk, 48-58 
Bacteria enumeration, value of, 229 
Bacteriological milk standards, 237 
Bang's eradication method for bovine 
tuberculosis, 322 



455 



456 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



Benzole acid in milk, 209 

Birmingham methods against bovine 

tuberculosis, 325 
Boiled milk, detection of, 205 

in infant feeding, 375 
Boiling of milk, bacterial efficiency of, 
374 

changes caused, 375 

temperature reached, 375 
Borates in milk, 208 
Boric acid, in butter, 389 

in cream, 389 

in milk, 208, 320, 384, 386, 389 
Boston milk standards, 237 
Bottle-cleaning machine, 295 
Bottles, cap for milk delivery, 296 

for milk delivery, 296 

for sterilised milk, 296 
Bovine diphtheria. 113 

scarlet fever, 113, 114 

tuberculosis, see Tuberculosis (bovine) 
Bovo-vaccine, 327 
Breed of cows and composition of the 

milk, 6 

Buddeised milk, 390 
Butter, diphtheria bacilli in, 60 

tubercle bacilli in, 61, 140, 224 

typhoid bacilli in, 59 
Butter-bacillus, 43 

Cans for milk delivery, disadvantages, 

295 

Catalase, 4 
Cellular content of milk, estimation of, 

191 

Cellular elements in milk, conditions 
causing variation, 12 

differential count, 195 

standards for, 199 

value of estimation, 198 

varieties, 11 

Centrifugal ised deposit from milk, exam- 
ination of, 194 

value of, 236 
Certified milk, 347-355 

New Jersey Act, 447 
Characters of milk -borne outbreaks, 73 
Cheese, tubercle bacilli in, 61, 141 
Chemical composition of milk, 3 
Chemical Milk Standards, 315, 397 
Chicago Milk Kegulations, 367 
Churns, locking of, 263, 292 

sanitary requirements of, 291 

types in use, 260 

ventilation of, 291 

Clean milk, procedures to obtain, 407 
Clifton typhoid fever outbreak, 84 
Collection of milk samples, 172 
Condensed milk, added to ordinary milk, 
392 

analysis of, 210 

bacteriological content, 210 



Condensed milk, in infant feeding, 156, 
160, 163, 393 

multiplication of bacteria in, 211 

quantity imported, 392 

varieties, 391 

Contagious Diseases (Animals) Act, 298 
Contamination of milk in transit, 24 

on consumers' premises, 25 
Coolers for milk, 289 
Cooling of milk, 259, 287, 372 
Counter pans, covering of, 268 
Cowpox, 105 
Cows, cleanliness of, 248, 279 

diseases of, 103 

grooming of, 280 
Cowsheds, drainage of, 278 

existing structural conditions, 243 

floor composition, 276 

standards of air space, 273 

structural requirements, 272 

types in England, 277 

water supply to, 279 
Cream, 59, 60, 213, 389 

Dairies, cleanliness of, 253, 268 
Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops 

1885 Order, 299, 405 

1886 Order, 303 
1899 Order, 303 
Model Regulations, 304 

Death-points in milk 

B. diphtheriae, 64 

B. dysenteriae, 64 

B. tuberculosis, 65 

B. tyjjhosiis, 63 

Micrococcus mefitensis, 64 

Vibrio cholerae, 64 

Denmark, bovine tuberculosis control in, 
324 ' 

Non-Tuberculosis Association, 324 

Tuberculosis (1904) Act, 430 
Diarrhoea, epidemic, 154 

outbreaks spread by milk, 101 
Diphtheria bacilli in teat ulcers, 112 
Diphtheria-like bacilli in milk, 225 
Diphtheria outbreaks spread by milk, 76 
Doane - Buckley leucocyte estimation 

method, 193 

Drainage of cowsheds, existing condi- 
tions, 247 

requirements, 278 

Dried milk, bacteriological examination 
of, 213 

for use in milk depots, 359 

preparation of, 393 

Egg-medium, 224 
" Enteritidis change " in milk, 190 
Enzymes in milk. 4, 375 
Epidemic diarrhoea, 154 
Estimation of the cellular content of 
milk, 191 



INDEX 



457 



Estimation of the number of bacteria in 

milk, 177 

B. coliin milk, 180 
B. enteritidis sporogenes, 189 
streptococci in milk, ]88 

Estimation of the sediment in milk, 195 

Feeding of children and diarrhoea rate, 

155 
Feeding of cows, influence on composition 

of the milk, 7 
Ferments, see Enzymes 
Flies and cow manure, 278 

and epidemic diarrhoea, 158 

and milk contamination, 26 
Floors of cowsheds, existing defects, 244 

requirements, 276 
Foot-and-mouth disease, 105 
Formaldehyde in milk, 209, 320, 389 
Formalin-methylene blue reduction time, 

204 
Frost v. Aylesbury Dairy Company, 317 

Gaertner infections of cows, 104 

Galactase, 4 

Gastro- enteritis of cows, 104 

outbreaks spread by milk, 101 
Germiciclal property of milk, 45 
Guaiacum test for milk enzymes, 206 

Hands, cleanliness of, during milking, 

255, 281 

Hendon outbreak of scarlet fever, 114 
Heyman's bovine vaccination method, 

327 
Hydrogen peroxide, detection in milk, 

210 
to preserve milk, 390 

Ice-packing of milk samples, 174 
Infectious Diseases Prevention Act, Sec. 4, 

311, 405 
Intra-mammary bacterial contamination, 

17 

Lactic acid bacilli, 36 

varieties of, 38 
Lactose bile-salt broth, 180 

neutral red agar, 181 
Larder accommodation in houses, 271, 297 
Legal powers applicable to milk, 298 

et seq. 

Leicester milk depot, 358 
Leucocytes in milk, see Cellular elements 
Lighting of cowsheds, existing conditions, 
247 

reqxiirements, 274 
Lipase, 4 

Liverpool Milk Depot, 358 
Liverpool milk, tubercle bacilli in, 332 
Local Government Board, Model Regula- 
tions, 304 



Local Government Board, powers to issue 

Milk Orders, 298 
Preservatives circular, 319 
Locking of churns, 293 
London Milk Clauses, 330 

Malta fever and cows, 105 
Mammary gland structure, 10 
Manchester Milk Clauses, 330, 418 
Manchester milk, tubercle bacilli in, 332 
Manure, bacteria in, 20 

distance from cowsheds, 248, 278 
Mastitis, as a cause of sore-throat, 90 

and human disease, 109 

bacteriology of, 107 

in cows, prevalence, 105 
Medical Milk Commissions, 348 
Medical Milk Commission Regulations, 

350 

Micrococcus melitensis, 61, 64, 105 
Milk, bacterial quality and infant- 
feeding, 160 

coolers as sources of bacteria to milk, 23 
Milk and Dairies Bill, 433 
Milk-borne outbreaks, characters of, 73 
Milk Commission death-rates, 167 
Milk depots, 355 

death-rates, 166 
Milk factory depots, 259, 290 

samples, dilution of, 174 

samples, particulars to record, 174 

separators, 23 

vessels, cleanliness of, 248, 282 
Milking machines, 283 
Milking methods in vogue, 252 
Milking methods required, 279 
Mixing of milk, 294 

Monthly variations in milk composition, 7 
Morning and evening variations in milk 

composition, 7 
Municipal milk control, 368, 408 

Ophthalmo-tuberculin test, 137 
Ortol test for enzymes, 206 
Ostertag's method, 326 

Pasteurisation, 377 

disadvantages of, 380 

efficiency of, 380 

Pasteurised milk, detection of, 207 
Pasteurisers, types of, 378 
Peptonising bacilli in milk, 373 
Permit system, 366 
Potassium iodide starch test for enzymes, 

206 

Preservation of milk, 371 
Preservatives (chemical), 381 
Preservatives, amounts found, 386, 390 

amounts required, 384 

Departmental Committee recommenda- 
tions, 389 

detection of, in milk, 208 



458 MILK AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



Preservatives, efficiency of, 384 
found in milk, 384 
L.G.B. circular on, 319 
objections to, 387 

Public Health Act, 1875, milk powers, 

309, 311 

Acts Amendment Act, 1890, 310 
Acts Amendment Act, 1907, 312, 405 
Food Kegulations (1907) Act, 316 

Purveying of milk, present conditions, 
267 

Railway stations, distribution of milk 

at, 264 

Railway transit of milk, distances tra- 
velled, 267 

present conditions, 259 
unlocked churns, 293 
vans used, 263 

Reaction of media for bacteria enumera- 
tion, 178 

Reconstructed milk, 394 
Reductases, 4 
Refrigeration of milk, 372 
Refrigerators, 289 
Roofs of cowsheds, construction of, 273 

Sale of Food and Drugs (1875) Act, 
313 

(1879) Act, 314 

(1899) Act, 314 

Sale of Milk Regulations, 1901, 315 
Salicylic acid in milk, 210 
Salts in milk, 4 
Savage's leucocyte estimation method, 

192 
Scarlet fever and diseased cows, 114 

spread by milk, 86, 117 
Score-card, 363 
Score-card system, 361 
Seasonal variations and milk composi- 
tion, 6 
Sediment in milk, amount, 15 

composition, 14 

estimation of, 195 

sources, 15 

supplied to Manchester, 336 

value of estimation, 200 
Septic conditions spread by milk, 89 

diseases of the cow, 104 
Shops, general, and milk-selling, 268 
Skim-milk and bovine tuberculosis, 138 
Smegma bacillus, 43 
Sodium carbonate in milk, 210 
Sore throats spread by milk, 89, 91, 

110 

Spirillum cJiolerae, see Vibrio cholerae 
Staphylococci and cow mastitis, 107 

in milk, 33 

Sterilisation of milk, 372 
Sterilised milk, bacteriology of, 373 

bottles, 296 



Storch's test for milk enzymes, 206 
Straining of milk, 255, 286 
Streptococci as a cause of mastitis, 107 

estimation of, in milk, 188 

in centrifugalised sediment, 195 

in condensed milk, 212 

in milk, 28 

isolation from milk, 188 

media for differentiating, 188 

standards for, in milk, 235 
Streptococcus anginosus, 109 

lacticus, 38 

mastitidis, 107 

scarlatinae, 116 

Teats, ulcerated, 111 
Temperature, influence on multiplication 
of bacteria, 48, 51 

of sheds and milk yield, 275 
Toning of milk, 399 

Tubercle bacilli, see Bacillus tuberculosis 
Tuberculin, 134 

Tuberculosis (bovine), American report 
on, 339 

as a source of human disease, 141 

bacteriological diagnosis of, 134 

Bang's method, 322 

clinical diagnosis of, 133 

control of, 321-329 

control methods in America, 328 

influence of age of cows, 126 

methods of spread, 137 

of udder, prevalence, 129 

Ostertag's method, 326 

prevalence of, 125 

tubercle bacilli in milk, 127 

tuberculin in diagnosis of, 135 

vaccination against, 327 
Tuberculosis (human), paths of infection. 

151 

Tuberculosis, Danish 1904 Act, 430 
Tuberculosis Order of 1909, 339, 422 
Typhoid fever spread by milk, 79 

Udder, bacteria in, 17 

influencing of washing on bacteria in 
milk, 21 

necessity for cleansing, 280 

structure, 9 

Udder tuberculosis and tubercle bacilli 
in milk, 129 

in cows, compensation for, 339 

in cows, fate of, 335, 338 

in cows, prevalence of, 333, 335 

in cows, slaughter of, 323 
"Ulax" milk strainer, 287 

Vaccination against bovine tuberculosis, 

327 

Vans for milk transit, 263 
Variations in chemical composition of 

milk, 6 



INDEX 



459 



Ventilation of cowsheds, existing con- 
ditions, 247 

requirements, 274 
Vibrio cholerae. in cheese, 61 

in butter, 60 

isolation from milk, 227 

multiplication in milk, 58, 60 

thermal death-point, 64 
Vieth's ratio, 5 
Voges and Proskauer's reaction, 183 



Water supply for cowsheds, existing 

conditions, 248 
requirements, 279 
Welford and Sons, Report-forms in use, 

451 

Wellington City Milk Supply Act, 368 
Wet milking, 255 
Woolwich Milk Depot, 356 

Ziehl-Neelsen method for tubercle bacilli, 
215 



THE END 



Printed by R. & R. CLAKK, LIMITED, Edinburgh. 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



