
Class __ 

Book 



Gpightfi? 



CDPVRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



HOW TO USE 

HAWAIIAN FRUIT 

AND 

FOOD PRODUCTS 



BY 
AGNES B. ALEXANDER 




Honolulu, T. H. 

Paradise-Pacific Print. 

1912. 









Copyright. 1912 
By Agnes R. Alexander 



J C!. A 3 3 



INTRODUCTION 

The measures used in this book are c, level cup, or % pint; 
tsp, level teaspoon, and tbsp, or level tablespoon. 

With the exception of the oh do, the fruit and food products 
selected are all found in our market. 

It has been found that fruits retain their flavor better, when 
cooked at a low temperature. 

In canning fruit, sterilize bottles, covers, and rubbers and 
fill bottles quickly. In this way all bacteria germs are killed, 
and the fruit should keep indefinitely. 

When fruit ripens, the starch composition is changed into 
levulose, or glucose substance, which is more easily assimi- 
lated. The tannin and vegetable acids are also changed, and 
the fruit becomes less stringent. If the fruit is over ripe, 
bacteria have been introduced. 

The original fruit and food products of Hawaii nei, which 
were found by the first discoverers, are eleven. These are the 
taro, or halo; the banana, or mala; the breadfruit, or ulu; the 
mountain apple, or oliia; the coconut, or niu; the alcala, the 
ohelo, the wild strawberry, or olielo papa; and the sugar cane, 
or ko. 

Some of these may have been brought to our shores by the 
aboriginal settlers, in their canoes; while the currents might 
have brought the coconut, and birds carried the seeds of the 
berries. 



PREFACE 

■■ 

xhe first edition of, "How to Use Hawaiian Fruits," was so 
kindly received, that this second edition has been prepared. 

It contains, besides additional receipts, the ohia, and roselle 
fruits, and directions for the preparation of an Hawaiian 
luncheon. 

As was previously stated, the receipts are not all original, 
and grateful acknowledgement is due the friends who have 
assisted. 

Agnes B. Alexandeb. 
Honolulu, Oct. 27, 1912. 









CONTENTS. 



Pages 
I. The Avocado, or "Alligator Pear" 7- 9 

II. The Banana 10-16 

III. The Breadfruit 17 

IV. The China Orange 18-20 

V. The Coconut 21-24 

VI. The Coffee 25-27 

VII. The Fig 28-31 

VIII. The Grapes 32-35 

IX. The Guava 36-40 

X. The Mango 41-43 

XL The Ohelo 44 

XII. The Ohia 45 

XIII. The Orange 46-49 

XIV. The Papaya 50-52 

XV. The Pineapple 53-58 

XVI. The Poha 59-60 

XVII. The Pomelo, or Grape Fruit and Shaddock 61-62 

XVIII. The Koselle 63-64 

XIX. The Tamarind 65 

XIX. The Taro 66-68 

XXI. The Watermelon 69 

XXII. Combined Fruit 70-72 

XXIII. A Poi Luncheon 73 



AVOCADO, OR "ALLIGATOR PEAR" 

This fruit is rich in fat, containing as high as 10 per cent. 
There are many varieties which vary when ripe in color 
from green to purple. It is usually served as a salad. 

AVOCADO IN SOUP AND STEW. 

Scoop our the avocado pulp with a spoon and drop in soup 
just before serving. Serve in the same way in stew. 

AVOCADO COCKTAIL. 

1 Cut fruit into dice, or small pieces, and serve in glasses 
with cocktail sauce made of tomato catsup and lemon juice, 
and season with salt and pepper. Serve with chopped ice. 

2. Mash the fruit and beat it up with the cocktail sauce. 
Serve in the same manner. 

AVOCADO SALAD. 

In preparing avocado salad, one may either cut it in dice, 
scoop it with a spoon, mash it and mix with the dressing, or 
serve it in the half skin and cover with the dressing. 
AVOCADO VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Combine sliced avocado, cucumber, tomato, and a few shreds 
of Chili pepper and serve with mayonnaise or French dressing. 

AVOCADO SALAD WITH STRING BEANS. 

Combine equal parts of cooked string beans and avocado 
and serve with French dressing. 

AVOCADO SALAD IN TOMATOES. 

Press the avocado through a potato press, mix with mayon- 
naise dressing, strongly seasoned with mustard, and fill peeled 
and partly scooped out tomatoes with the avocado. 

AVOCADO SERVED IN SKIN. 

Cut avocado in half, remove seed, and serve with one of these 



five dressings : 1, sugar ; 2, salt and vinegar ; 3, tomato catsup ; 
4, Durkee's salad dressing; 5, French dressing. 

Or partly fill the cavity with sliced celery and sliced wal- 
nuts, and cover with mayonnaise. 

AVOCADO ASPIC SALAD— 1. 

1 2 box gelatine 2 c mashed avocado pulp 

x /2 cup cold water Juice % lemon 

1 cup boiling water Salt, cayenne 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water % hr. Dissolve in the 
boiling water. Strain and add the fruit pulp which has been 
navored with salt, cayenne, and the lemon juice. Place on 
ice to harden. Serve with mayonnaise. 

AVOCADO ASPIC SALAD— 2. 

1 2 box gelatin. 1 Juice of 2 lemons 

1 2 c cold water 2 tbsp sugar 

V/2 c boiling water 2 tomatoes 

1 good sized avocado 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water a 2 hr. Dissolve in the 
boiling water. Strain and add sugar and lemon juice. Cut 
the avocado and tomato in cubes. Place a mold in ice water 
and pour in a layer of jelly, then avocado and tomato. Add 
a little jelly to keep the fruit in place, and when set, add more 
and more fruit. Place on ice to harden. Serve with mayon- 
naise. This and the preceding salad may be molded in indi- 
vidual molds and served in nests of lettuce leaves. 

AVOCADO AND PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Slice the avocado in small pieces and mix with cubed pine- 
apple. Serve with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

AVOCADO SALAD DRESSING. 

Press avocado through a sieve or potato press. Mix vinegar, 
red pepper, salt, mustard, a little lemon, or lime juice, as for 
salad dressing. Add equal parts of oil and avocado pulp, add- 
ing the oil gradually to the other ingredients. 

AVOCADO SANDWICHES— 1. 

Mash the pulp of the fruit and season with salt and pepper. 
Spread this between thin slices of bread. 



9 

AVOCADO SANDWICHES— 2. 

Slice the fruit with chopped Chili peppers or cayenne, and 
place between thin slices of buttered bread. 

AVOCADO ICE CREAM. 

Yolks 5 eggs 2 c sugar 

1 qt. milk 4 medium sized avocados 

Green maraschino cherries Almonds and vanilla extracts 

Make a boiled custard with the milk, eggs, and 1 c sugar, 
and flavor with vanilla. Mash the fruit to a pulp with 1 c 
sugar and flavor with almond extract. "When the custard is 
cool, add the fruit and freeze. Serve in mounds with a green 
marashino cherry on top of each mound. 



10 



BANANA 

The banana contains a greater per cent, of food material 
than any other fruit, being chiefly starch and sugar. There 
are two general types, the Chinese and like varieties, only 
suitable for eating raw and frying, while the plantin or cook- 
ing banana may be boiled, baked, or fried. The strings which 
cling to the fruit are the only indigestible part, and should 
be removed before eating. The unripe fruit may be dried 
and ground into meal. Some use it as a beverage, like coffee. 

BANANAS SIMPLE. 

Slice and serve with lemon or China orange juice, or with 
sugar and cream. They may also be sliced into porridge. 

DRIED BANANAS. 

Peel bananas and cut in thin flakes, or press through a sieve. 
Dry in the sun, or hot attic on screened dishes. When dry, 
keep in a dry, dark, cool place. 

BAKED BANANAS— 1. 

Bake bananas in their skins, or peel not too ripe ones. Add 
a little salt and put in same pan with a roast ^ hr. before 
serving. Turn once or twice. Serve as a vegetable. 

BAKED BANANAS— 2. 
Peel bananas and place in a baking pan. Sprinkle with 
sugar, lemon juice, and a little cinnamon. Bake % h r > an( ^ 
serve as a vegetable. 

BAKED BANANAS— 3. 

Bake bananas in their skins 45 minutes in a hot oven. Peel 
and place on a lettuce leaf with whipped cream on top. Serve 
cold as an entree. 

Or bake and serve in the same manner with grated coco- 
nut on top of the bananas. 

BANANAS AND DATES. 

Serve finely sliced dates and bananas with whipped or 
plain cream, or plain custard. 



11 

FRIED BANANAS. 

Slice bananas in 2 or 3 strips and fry in half butter and 
half lard. 

BANANA CROQUETTES. 

Cut bananas as to fry, and dip in egg and bread crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat and drain on paper. 

DISGUISED BANANAS. 

Peel and cut baking bananas each into 5 or 6 pieces. Add 
sugar, bits of butter, cinnamon, a little fruit juice, or tama- 
rinds and water, or just water, and bake slowly in a covered 
pan for 3 or 4 hours, or quickly in an uncovered pan. 

STEWED BANANAS— 1. 

Cut bananas in small pieces, add sugar and a few tama- 
rinds; or China orange, lime, or lemon juice and sugar, and 
simmer slowly in a very little water. Serve as a fruit course. 

STEWED BANANAS— 2. 

Peel and cut bananas in halves. Cover with a little water 
and stew y 2 hr. Serve as a vegetable. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

3 bananas 1 c flour 

*4 e milk 1 tbsp powdered sugar 

Y^ tsp salt 2 tsp baking powder 

1 egg 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat egg, add milk, and com- 
bine mixtures. Add sliced or mashed bananas. Fry in deep 
fat and drain on paper. 

BANANA SOUP. 

1 pt. milk % c mashed and strained banana 

1 tbsp butter 1 tbsp flour 
!/4 tsp salt Pepper 

Melt the butter and add flour, mixing thoroughly. Add 
milk slowly, stirring constantly. When it boils, add the 
bananas and cook 5 minutes. Serve hot with crackers. For 
this use the Chinese or cold baked banana. 



12 

BAKED BANANA DUMPLINGS. 

1 c flour 2 tsp baking powder 

1 heaping tbsp butter ^ tsp salt 

1 g c water Banana and seasoning 

Rub together the butter and flour sifted with the baking 
powder and salt. Add about % e "^ater and mix lightly with 
spoon. Divide into 4 balls and roll out lighty and quickly 
to the size of large saucers. Put into the middle of each 
round minced banana, sugar, butter, and lemon extract, and 
bring paste to top, wetting the edges and leaving opening for 
steam to escape. Serve hot with sauce made of 4 tbsp sugar, 
2 tbsp butter, cinnamon and a pinch of salt creamed together. 
Add i/4 c boiling water. 

BANANA SALAD— 1. 

Make nests of lettuce leaves on individual plates. Slice 
bananas and lay the slices one on the other in the form of a 
circle within the lettuce, leaving the center empty. In this 
place a spoonful of mayonnaise and on top lay a candied 
cherry or a strawberry. 

BANANA SALAD— 2. 

Slice bananas in halves lengthwise. Lay them on lettuce 
leaves, and place on top of each half, chopped walnut ; then a 
narrow layer of mayonnaise. 

BANANA SALAD— 3. 

Slice bananas, celery and walnuts. Mix with salt and 
mayonnaise, and serve in banana boats made of the half skins 
with lettuce leaves for sails. Place in nest of lettuce with 2 
or 3 stuffed olives. 

BANANA SALAD— 4. 

Serve cold baked bananas on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise or boiled dressing. 



13 

BANANA PIE— 1. 

Slice bananas thin, add sugar, nutmeg, butter and guava 
jelly or l/ 2 c finely chopped pineapple pickle, or a larger 
quantity of chopped fresh pineapple. Bake slowly between 

two crusts. 

BANANA PIE— 2. 

Slice thin, enough bananas for one pie. Mix 1/4 c sugar, 
little salt, 1 tbsp China orange or lemon juice, and spread 
half of this on the pie crust. Dot with tsp butter, then put 
in a layer of bananas and repeat. Cover with a top crust 
and bake quickly. 

BANANA HARD SAUCE. 
Cream together t/ 2 c sugar and \i c butter, beating well; 
then add V 2 c banana pulp and beat. The white of an egg 
may be added before the fruit. 

BANANA PLAIN SAUCE. 
1 tbsp butter 1 tbsp flour 

6 tbsp sugar V2 c orange juice 

i/2 c banana pulp 
Melt the butter, add flour, mixing thoroughly, then the sugar 
and fruit. Stir and serve while still foaming. This may be 
used with any plain pudding. 

BANANA BROWN BETTY. 

Put a layer of sliced bananas in buttered dish. Add sugar, 
butter, and a little chopped pineapple pickle with syrup, or 
orange marmalade, or guava jelly; then layer of bread crumbs 
sprinkled with cinnamon; then layer of bananas, etc., making 
the last layer of crumbs. Bake slowly and serve hot with 
cream. If fresh pineapple and juice are used, the cream may 
be dispensed with. The whipped whites of 2 eggs with 2 tbsp 
sugar, put lightly on top, and browned quickly in the oven after 
the pudding is cooked, is an improvement. 

BANANA BLANC MANGE. 
1 qt. milk V2 c sugar 

3 tbsp cornstarch Salt 

1/2 c cold water 3 large bananas 

White 1 egg 



14 

Dissolve cornstarch in cold water, add to boiling milk, and 
when it thickens add sugar and bananas, which have been 
pressed through a sieve. Then add the stiffly whipped white 
of egg. 

ROLY-POLY BANANA PUDDING. 

1 c flour Y2 c cold suet 

| c ice water %tsp salt 

2 tsp baking powder 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt. Chop into this scant 
1/2 c suet and mix quickly with ice water. Roll out thin and 
long and spread with thin slices of banana and sprinkle with 
lemon juice. Roll up like a jelly roll and bake in hot oven 
% hr. Serve hot with sauce. 

BANANA PUDDING. 

1 qt. milk 2 or 3 bananas 
Yolks 2 eggs 2 tbsp cornstarch 

2 tbsp powdered sugar Salt 

Boil the milk and stir in the beaten yolks of eggs, sugar, 
cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk, and pinch of salt. 
Remove from the fire when it thickens. Take baked bananas 
and slice in a pudding dish. Add powdered sugar and cover 
with the custard. Put in the oven and brown. 

BANANA GELATINE. 

% box gelatine % c cold water 

Y2 c sugar 1 c boiling water 

3 Chinese bananas pressed through sieve 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Boil the sugar and 1 c 
water. Add the gelatine and orange juice. Place in a mold 
and set on ice to harden. Serve with cream. 

BANANA SPONGE. 

1 tbsp gelatine y± c cold water 

1 c banana pulp Juice V2 lemon 

"Whites 2 eggs % c sugar 

1 doz. chopped nuts 



15 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Stir and cook ba- 
nana pulp, lemon juice, and sugar until boiling, and add gela- 
tine Place in ice water, and when it begins to set, told m 
the stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into mould and place on 
ice. Sprinkle with the chopped nuts. 

BANANA MARMALADE. 

4 bananas 1 c su S ar 

1 c water Juice 1 lemon 

Press bananas through potato press, and add water. Place 
on the fire, and when it boils, add sugar and lemon 3 uice, 
stirring. Cook 20 minutes. Serve with hot cakes or wattles. 

BANANA WITH JUNKET. 

Fill sherbet glasses two-thirds full of plain milk junket 
made from junket tablets. Crush and sweeten bananas and 
place on top of junket, Cream may be mixed with the 
banana. 

BANANA CUSTARD PIE. 

2 bananas 2 eggs 

l/ 2 c sugar 1 pt. hot milk 

g^lt Cinnamon or vanilla 

Mash and strain the bananas, add well beaten egg, and whip 
together until light and frothy. Add sugar, hot milk, salt, 
and cinnamon or vanilla. Bake in one crust. 

BANANA FILLING FOR CAKE. 

6 bananas Whites 2 eggs 

14 c sugar Juice 1 orange and grated rind 

Mix the sugar and grated rind. Add the bananas mashed. 
Whip the egg whites and beat mixture into it. Whipped 
cream may be used in place of eggs. 

BANANA WHIP. 
To 3 Chinese bananas allow the white of 1 egg. Press 
the banana through a potato press. Sweeten with powdered 
sugar. Add this to the well whipped egg white. Serve in 
sherbet cups, ice cold. Whipped cream may be used in place 
of the egg white. 



16 

BANANA SOUFFLE. 

1 c mashed bananas "Whites 4 eggs 

Powdered sugar Salt 

"Whip the egg whites with a pinch of salt, and beat into 
them the sweetened banana pulp. Turn into a buttered pud- 
ding dish, or individual molds in pan of hot water, and bake in 
slow oven until firm. 

BANANA CREAM. 

14 box gelatine Juice 1 lemon 

i/i c cold water 4 bananas mashed 

1 c cream 14 c sugar 

Mix bananas with the sugar. Whip the" cream, and stir in 

the bananas and lemon juice. Soak the gelatine in the cold 

water 5 minutes, and dissolve by setting dish in hot water. 

Strain and mix with the banana. Place in a mold to harden 

on ice. 

FROZEN BANANA CUSTARD. 

4 tbsp sugar 4 bananas 

3 eggs 3 c milk 

3 tbsp cold water 1 c cream 

1 tsp gelatine 
Soak gelatine in the cold water. Place milk on stove, and 
add sugar and eggs, stirring. Add gelatine, and stir until it 
thickens. Cool, and add bananas pressed through sieve, and 
fold in the whipped cream. Freeze. 

BANANA SHERBET. 

1 pt. water 1 c banana pulp 

1 c sugar Juice 1 lemon 

1 tsp gelatine 
Boil the water and sugar 20 minutes. Soak the gelatine in 
little cold water 5 minutes. Add it and the lemon juice to 
the syrup. Strain. When cool add the banana and freeze. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

To 1 c mashed banana pulp add the juice of ^ lemon. 
Mix this with 1 qt. of any plain ice cream when partly frozen. 



17 



BREADFRUIT 

This fruit, as it is called, is used only as a vegetable, and 
when properly baked, it is somewhat similar to the sweet 
potato. It is stringy only when undercooked. 

TO RIPEN BREADFRUIT. 

Remove the core from slightly green breadfruit, and put in 
its place 1 tbsp rock salt. In about 2 days it will be ripe. 

BAKED BREADFRUIT— 1. 

Take the fruit when it is just turning soft, but not too soft 
nor too hard. The whole secret is in getting it at the right 
stage. Bake in a hot oven for 1 hr. Cut in half, remove the 
seed and break in individual pieces. Serve with butter. 

BAKED BREADFRUIT— 2. 

Cut the stem and core of a breadfruit out together. Put 
butter and salt in the cavitj^, replace the stem and bake for 
1 hour. 

BOILED BREADFRUIT. 

Cut the skin from a ripe breadfruit. Tie pulp in a cotton 
bag, and place bag in boiling water. Boil for 40 min. to 1 hr., 
according to size of breadfruit. "When done, roll out in a dish, 
slice, and serve with melted butter. 

BREADFRUIT WITH STEW. 

Baked, or boiled breadfruit may be served in stew in place of 
potatoes. 

BREADFRUIT PUDDING—' ' PAPAIEE. ' ' 

Take ripe breadfruit, scrape out the pulp and mix well with 
the milk, and pressed juice from a grated coconut. Add % 
tsp salt and 1 tbsp sugar. Bake !/•> hr. to 1 hr. 



18 



CHINESE ORANGE 

The China orange is the small acid orange. It may be used 
in place of lemon, and is very good cut in half and served with 
papaya for breakfast. 

CHINA ORANGE DRINK. 

Make as lemonade, and sweeten to taste. 

CHINA ORANGE SERVED WITH TEA. 

With a sharp knife cut the oranges crosswise into thin slices. 
Serve these with tea in place of lemon. 

CHINA ORANGE PUNCH. 

3 c strong tea % tsp almond extract 

1 c China orange juice Mineral or plain water 

Sugar 
Dilute tea and orange juice with water and sweeten to taste. 
The water may be part mineral. Eight stewed peach leaves 
may be used in place of the almond extract. 

CHINA ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Clean fruit carefully. Squeeze seeds from oranges and 
save juice. Strain juice free from seeds. Put skins and pulp 
through a meat chopper, and place in kettle. Add juice and 
boil. Then add measure for measure of sugar, stirring until 
sugar is dissolved, and boil until it becomes glassy. 

Or pour boiling water over oranges and let stand over 
night. Then peel skins off and cut into strips. Free pulp 
from seeds, add skins, and boil slowly. Add equal measure 
sugar and boil until thick and glassy. 

CHINA ORANGE AND PAPAYA MARMALADE— 1. 

To 1 measure papaya allow 3/o measure China oranges. 
Wash oranges well. Squeeze out seeds and juice. Put skins 
through a meat chopper and add to the strained juice. Add 
papaya pulp cut in small pieces and boil all together; then 
add as much sugar as pulp. Boil again for 15 or 20 minutes. 



19 

CHINA ORANGE AND PAPAYA MARMALADE— 2. 

To 6 c papaya cut in small pieces add ^ c China orange 
juice. Boil 15 minutes and add ~y% as much sugar as pulp. 
Boil again for 15 or 20 minutes. 

CHINA ORANGE AND PAPAYA MARMALADE— 3. 

3 qts. China oranges 5 small papayas 

Soak the skins of Y2 the oranges over night, or boil, changing 
the water three times. Squeeze the juice from the oranges. 
To 1 c of juice add 2 c sugar. Cook the orange juice and 
skins with sugar until stringy, then add papaya which has been 
cooked until soft. 

CHINA ORANGE PRESERVES. 

Pour over oranges a boiling salt brine and leave over night. 
In morning drain and pour on fresh water. Wipe oranges and 
open at stem end with small silver knife. Kemove seeds with- 
out breaking the fruit. Make a syrup of 4 parts sugar to 1 part 
water. Boil and drop oranges in. Boil hard for ^4 to 1 hr. 

CHINA ORANGE PIE. 

Juice and pulp 7 oranges 1 c sugar 

1 egg 1 tbsp cornstarch 

Y2 c boiling water 
Peel oranges and remove seeds, saving juice. Dissolve corn- 
starch in a little cold water and cook in the boiling water, add- 
ing sugar, oranges, and beaten egg. Pour into a pie crust and 
bake. Strips of pie crust may be placed on the top, or a 
meringue added when the pie is done, and browned in the oven. 

CHINA ORANGE GELATINE. 

% c cold water 1% c boiling water 

1/2 c orange juice % c sugar 

1/2 box gelatine % c China orange juice 

Soak the gelatine in cold water 5 minutes, and dissolve in the 

boiling water. Add sugar and stir until dissolved and cool. 

Then add fruit juice and strain through cloth into mold. Set 

on ice to harden. 



20 

CHINA ORANGE SPONGE. 

1-3 box gelatine 1 c sugar 

1-3 e cold water Whites 3 eggs 

1 c boiling water Juice 6 China oranges 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes and dissolve in boiling 
water. Add sugar and strain. Place in ice water, and 
when it thickens beat in the stiffly whipped egg whites, and 
beat with a Dover egg beater until light and spongy. Put 
lightly into glass dish, or place in mold on ice. 

CHINA ORANGE CUSTARD. 

3 c water 2 eggs 

3 large China oranges 1 c sugar 

2 tbsp cornstarch 
Boil water and add moistened cornstarch. Stir until it 
thickens; then add yolks of eggs beaten with the sugar and 
orange juice. Stir one minute, and pour into glass dish, or 
sherbet glasses. Make a meringue of the egg whites, and flavor 
with juice, and grated skin of a China orange. 

CHINA ORANGE SHERBET. 

White 1 egg 1 qt. water 

2 c sugar % c China orange juice 

Boil the sugar and water 20 minutes, stirring until the sugar 
is dissolved. Cool and add China orange juice. Freeze, and 
when partly frozen add the beaten white of egg. 



21 



COCONUT 

The coconut may be used both in the ripe and unripe state. 
It ranks high in food value, containing 25 per cent, fat and 
14 per cent, starch. The milk is a refreshing drink, and may 
be used in place of cow's milk. To extract the milk from old 
coconuts, grate coconut and pour over it boiling water, 1 pt. to 
a coconut. Stir well, strain and squeeze through a cotton 
cloth. 

To keep grated coconut, sprinkle it with sugar and place on 
a sieve in the sun to dry. 

"KOELEPALAU" 

Mash baked or boiled sweet potato and pour over an equal 
measure of grated coconut milk. Sweeten to taste. Serve hot. 

"HAUPIA." 

Take equal measures of pia or cornstarch and grated co- 
conut. Soften the pia with water. Heat the sweetened co- 
conut milk and pour in pia gradually. Stir only one way, until 
very smooth. Serve cold. Pia is an Hawaiian starch. 

"KULOLO." 

Mix well iy 2 lbs. grated raw taro with the milk and 
strained juice of a grated coconut. Add a little salt and 
enough sugar to take away the sharp biting taste of the taro, 
about 2 tbsp. Bake slowly for 2 or 3 hours. Sweet potatoes 
can be used instead of taro. 

COCONUT AND CORN PUDDING. 

1 doz. ears corn 1 grated coconut 

1 pt. milk 4 eggs 

1 tsp salt 14 tsp black pepper 

Cut corn from the cob, and mix with coconut and beaten 
yolk of eggs. Add salt, pepper, and milk. Stir in the beaten 
whites of eggs and bake in a pudding dish 1 hr. Serve as a 
vegetable. 



22 

COCONUT PUDDING— 1. 

2 eggs 3 tbsp sugar 

2 tbsp cornstarch 1^ c cow's or coconut milk 

1/2 c grated coconut 
Put milk on stove, add sugar, stirring. When it begins to 
boil, add cornstarch which has been dissolved in a little cold 
milk. Stir, and as it thickens add the beaten white of eggs. 
Remove, and when partly cool, add grated coconut. Mix well 
and turn into a mold. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs, 
1 c milk and 2 tbsp sugar. Pour custard around pudding when 
served. 

COCONUT PUDDING— 2. 

1 pt. milk 2 tbsp cornstarch 

2 tbsp sugar Yolks 2 eggs 

Pinch salt 
Heat part of the milk, salt, and sugar. Dissolve the corn- 
starch in the remainder of the milk. Add to it the heated 
milk, and when cooked add the beaten yolks of eggs, and ^4 
c grated coconut. Flavor with vanilla. Beat whites stiff, 
sweeten and flavor with lemon; spread on top and brown 
quickly in hot oven. 

YOUNG COCONUT. 

Serve young coconut in the shell, or scoop out and serve 
in a dish. Stewed mulberries may be added to the coconut. 

COCONUT PIE. 

1 pt. coconut or cow's milk 2 eggs 

1 c grated coconut 3 tbsp sugar 

y± tsp salt 
Bake pie crust. Beat yolks of eggs; add sugar, milk, coco- 
nut, and salt. Make 1 thick or 2 thin pies. Bake 30 minutes. 
Add meringue of white of eggs beaten with 2 tbsp sugar and 
flavored with vanilla. Brown slightly in oven. 

COCONUT COOKIES. 

1 e grated coconut % c butter 
\y% c sugar 2 c flour 

2 eggs 2 tsp baking powder 

Y2 e milk Grated rind 1 lemon or i/o tsp extract 



23 

Mix butter, sugar, beaten eggs, and milk. Sift flour, baking 
powder, and salt. Add this to the first mixture and grate the 
lemon over it. Stir in the coconut, and add enough flour to roll 
out ; or drop in rough cakes on greased pans. Bake 15 minutes 
in moderate oven. 

COCONUT FILLING OR FROSTING. 

1/2 c grated coconut % c powdered sugar 

Whites of 2 eggs 
Beat the eggs stiff, add sugar ; beat, and add coconut. 

COCONUT SAUCE. 

1 c grated coconut 1/2 c butter 

1 egg 1 c sugar 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg. and beat well, add- 
ing coconut. 

COCONUT DROPS. 

l!/2 c sugar 2 c grated coconut 

White 1 egg Salt 

Boil the sugar and coconut until it becomes sticky. When 
cool, add the stiffly beaten white of an egg to which a little 
salt has been added. Beat together and drop from spoon on 
buttered pans, and bake in moderate oven 15 minutes or until 
brown. Take pan from oven, and let cool before taking 
up the drops. 

COCONUT FONDANT CANDY. 

Dissolve 1 c sugar in 1 c water. Add tsp cream of tartar. 
Boil to soft ball stage, taking care that the syrup does not 
form crystals on the side of the pan. Grate coconut and mix 
with the fondant as much as it will hold well. Spread on but- 
tered plates, and cut into 1 inch squares. Leave to harden. 

COCONUT CREAM CANDY. 

Boil 1/2 c milk with 3 c brown sugar, add 2 c grated coco- 
nut, and cook until it strings. Flavor with vanilla. Set in pan 
of cold water to cool, and beat hard until creamy. Drop on 
paraffin or buttered paper. 



24 

COCONUT MOUSSE 

1 e grated coconut Q " 

1 tsp gelatine 6 tbs P °rang- e juice 

72 e boiling- milk pt - cre am 

Piaee ln mo,d - *— . «x^ ~ 



25 



COFFEE 

The Hawaiian Kona coffee is considered by some the best 
in the world. It should be kept in an air-tight container and 
freshly ground before using. 

COFFEE BEVERAGE. 

Kona coffe has been found best made in this way. Allow 
1 tbsp coffee to 1 c water. Measure and leave over night. In 
morning simmer, but not boil, 20 minutes. No egg is needed 
to clear. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

1/2 box gelatine 3 c black coffee 

1/2 e c °ld water % c sugar 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the hot 

coffee. Add sugar and stir until it dissolves. Strain and turn 

into a mold. Serve with whipped cream. 

COFFEE JUNKET. 

2 tbsp sugar 1 c strong coffee 

3 c milk 1 tbsp cold water 

Junket tablet 
Crush and dissolve junket tablet in tbsp water. Heat milk, 
add sugar and coffee. Take from fire and when lukewarm add 
junket tablet. Serve with cream. 

COFFEE SPONGE. 

1 c black coffee 1 c sugar 

1/2 box gelatine % c cold water 

Whites of 3 eggs 
Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Dissolve in boiling 
coffee and add sugar, stirring. Strain and set in ice water. 
"When it begins to thicken, beat the whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, and whip the jelly into them, a spoonful at a time. Beat 
with an egg beater. Pour into mold and place on ice to harden. 
Serve with cream. 



26 

COFFEE SPANISH CREAM. 

y± box gelatine 2 eggs 

V/2 c strong coffee Pinch salt 

§ c sugar 1 tsp vanilla 
§ c milk 

Soak gelatine in % c cold coffee 5 minutes. Boil 1 c coffee 
and milk. Add beaten egg yolks and cook 3 minutes; then 
add sugar, dissolved gelatine and salt. When cold, beat in 
stiffly whipped whites of eggs, flavor and place in mold on ice. 
Serve with cream. 

COFFEE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

% box gelatine % c clear coffee 

1 c milk 1/2 c sugar 

y± tsp salt 2 tbsp powdered sugar 

3 c cream Lady fingers 

Soak gelatine in cold milk and dissolve over hot water, add- 
ing !/2 c sugar. Beat egg yolks, add powdered sugar, salt, 
scalded milk, and coffee. Strain and set in ice water. Stir 
until it thickens; then fold in the whipped cream. Turn into 
mold lined with lady fingers. 

COFFEE MOUSSE. 

1 tbsp gelatine § c sugar 

1 pt. whipped cream f (offee 

Whites of 3 eggs 

Soak gelatine in a little cold water 5 minutes and dissolve 
in the hot coffee. Cool. Beat all together and place in freezer 
or mold packed in equal parts of salt and ice for 4 hrs. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

f c powdered sugar 1 pt. cream 

iy 2 c boiling coffee y 2 box gelatine 

y^ c cold water 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, and add to it the hot coffee. 

Sweeten, turn into a mold in ice water, and when it thickens 

fold in whipped cream and place on ice to harden. 



27 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. cream 1 c sugar 

1/2 e black coffee 
Bought bottled cream can be diluted with milk. Scald the 
cream and sugar in a double boiler, and when cold add the 
coffee. Freeze. 



28 



FIG 

The fig is considered one of the most healthful fruit known. 
FIGS SIMPLEST. 

Peel figs and slice. Eat with sugar and cream. 

Or cut 2 figs in halves, and place the four halves on a plate 
in form of four leafed clover. Sugar, and put a maraschino 
cherry in each. Strawberries or seeded grapes could be used 
in place of cherries. Eat with spoon. 

FIG SALAD. 

Peel and slice figs and mix with shredded pineapple. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

Or peel and fill figs with chopped nuts and cover with 
mayonnaise. 

PICKLED FIGS. 

Place figs in jars with cinnamon bark and cloves. Make a 
syrup of i/o c sugar and 1 qt. vinegar. Boil and pour into jars. 
Seal tight. 

SPICED FIGS. 

1 pt. vinegar 4 lbs. sugar 

7 lbs. figs Cinnamon, cloves 

Make a syrup of the vinegar and sugar. Season with 2 parts 
cinnamon to 1 part cloves, tied in a cloth, and boil 20 minutes. 
Wash and wipe figs. Drop them in the syrup and boil 10 or 
15 minutes, or until tender when pierced with straw. Take 
out and place in sterilized jars with 2 slices of lemon in each. 
Boil syrup down and pour in jars. 

FIG PRESERVES. 

Take equal weight of figs and sugar. Boil sugar with a little 
water and add figs. Boil, remove and spread on flat plates to 
cool. Repeat this two or three times and cook until fruit is 
clear. 



29 

DRIED FIGS. 

Take figs when the skins begin to crack. Pour over boil- 
ing water in which a little soda has been dissolved. Take 
the figs out and then dip again. Place on trays exposed to 
the sun for a few days. 

FIG JAM. 

Peel ripe figs and boil in double boiler until soft. Strain 
through colander and add ^/z as much sugar ; boil again and 
add lemon or pineapple for flavoring. 

FIG JELLY. 

To 1 doz. figs allow 1 lemon. Peel and slice figs and add 
unpeeled and sliced lemon. Cook slowly until perfectly soft. 
Strain through cloth bag and add as much sugar as fruit 
juice. 

FIG PUDDING. 

3 large or y 2 lb. fresh figs 1 c brown sugar 

1 c milk % c sue t 

1 pt. bread crumbs 1 egg 

Chop figs and suet together. Add bread crumbs, sugar, milk, 
and egg. Boil 4 hrs. in double boiler. Serve with lemon sauce. 

FIG CANDY. 

2 c sugar 8 figs 

2 tbsp butter % c milk 

Make a syrup of the sugar, milk, and butter. "When it boils, 
add figs chopped very fine. Beat until creamy. Put in a 
buttered pan to cool and cut in squares. 

FIG PIE. 

l/o lb. figs for one pie. Chop figs very fine and cook with 1 
c cold water, juice 1 lemon, and little sugar. When soft and 
smooth, cool and add yolk of egg. Put in pie crust and bake. 
Remove and cover with a meringue made of the white of egg 
and 1 tbsp sugar flavored with vanilla. Brown in oven. 



30 

FIGS IN JELLY. 

1 doz. large figs 4 tbsp sugar 

!/2 c cold water 1 c whipped cream 

a /2 box gelatine 1 tsp vanilla extract 

Cover figs with boiling water, and cook slowly until tender. 
Pour off juice, and boil until reduced to 1 c. Add sugar and 
gelatine soaked in cold water. Strain, and when cool add 
vanilla and red coloring. Mold in shallow dish, and when firm 
cut into dice. Arrange figs in glass dish, and garnish with 
jelly and whipped cream. 

FIGS AND ORANGE JELLY. 

1/2 box gelatine 1 c orange juice 

y<z c cold water Juice 1 lemon 

y<2. c sugar Figs 

Take 1 c sliced figs, cover with water, and cook slowly until 
tender. Strain, and put 1 c juice in saucepan; add sugar and 
gelatine dissolved in cold water, and lemon and orange juices. 
When it thickens, add figs. Serve with cream. 

CAKES OF FIGS. 

Stew slowly ripe peeled figs to smooth pulp. Add little 
sugar and flavor. Stir constantly till reduced to a thin pulp 
free of lumps. Pour into pans or molds and dry in the stove, 
sun, or dryer. When perfectly dry, wrap each cake in oiled 
paper and keep in a dry place. 

FIG SOUFFLE. 

Beat 1 c of mashed figs with the whites of 3 eggs and bake 
in the oven. 

FIG FILLING. 

10 chopped figs y% c sugar 1 c water 

Boil together until thick. When cool, spread between and on 
top of cake. 

FIG ICE CREAM. 

Mix 1 qt. of cream with 2 c sugar and freeze partially. Then 
add 2 c mashed figs, and finish freezing. 



31 

FIG SHERBET. 

1 e water 1 c water-lemon juice 

2 e sugar 2 c mashed figs 

Boil the water and sugar. Cool and add the waterlemon 
juice. "When partly frozen, add the mashed figs. 

FIG FRAPPe'. 

Take about 1 doz. figs, skin, slice fine, and sweeten. Whip 
1 pt. of cream add figs. Pack in freezer without stirring, 
about 1^2 hrs. before serving. 



32 



GRAPES 

With the exception of the dates, grapes exceed all other 
fruit in amount of sugar, which varies from 12 to 26 per 
cent. No sugar is needed when fruit are preserved in grape 
juice. 

CANNED GRAPES. 

Wash grapes; put in sterilized jars and steam for 30 
minutes. Then fill jars with boiling syrup made of 2 parts 
water and 1 part sugar. Screw covers on tight. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Put clean grapes into porcelain kettle with little water, and 
cook slowly until seeds and pulp separate. Strain through 
cheese cloth, and return juice to kettle. When at boiling 
point, add *4 as much sugar as juice and dissolve. Boil slowly 
for about 6 minutes. Fill sterilized bottles and seal at once. 
For a drink, add lemon juice or slices of lemon and cracked ice. 

GRAPE SYRUP. 

7 lbs. grapes 2 1 /? oz. tartaric acid 

Put grapes into large stone jar and cover with water. Dis- 
solve acid in little water and pour over fruit, mixing thorough- 
ly. Let stand 24 hours. Strain carefully and to each pt. juice 
add l 1 /^ pt. sugar, and set aside, stirring occasionally until 
dissolved, which will take from 12 to 24 hours ; then bottle. It 
will never ferment. As there is no cooking, the fresh flavor 
of the grapes is preserved. For drink, pour little into glasses 
with crushed ice and aerated water. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Wash slightly green grapes after taking from stems. Add 
little water, cover and cook 10 or 15 minutes until soft. Strain 
juice through cloth and add equal measure sugar. Boil un- 
covered until it jellies. 



33 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Squeeze off skins of grapes. Cook pulp and skins separately 
with very little water. When seeds drop out of pulp, strain 
and add § c sugar to each e pulp and sweetened skins. For 
grape butter, cook slowly for a longer time. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Cook slowly pulp and skins of grapes separately. Strain 
pulp ; then add to it the skins. To 1 c pulp add y» c sugar, 2 
or 3 cloves, other spices if desired, and 1 tbsp vinegar. Simmer 
until a rich color. 

GRAPE PIE. 

Use grape marmalade between 2 crusts, the top slatted. 
GRAPE FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Mix grape preserve with cream and put between layers of 
cake just before serving. 

GRAPE SALAD. 

Remove seeds and skins from grapes, combine with sliced 
bananas, and serve with mayonnaise. 

GRAPE SPONGE. 

i/4 box gelatine % c sugar 

14 c cold water 1 c grape juice 

Whites 2 eggs Juice 1 lemon 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve by standing dish 
in hot water. Dissolve sugar in fruit juice and strain the 
gelatine into the mixture. Set in ice and water and when 
it thickens add beaten whites of eggs, and beat with egg 
beater until it is light and spongy. Put into glass dish or 
shape in mold on ice. Serve with cream or boiled custard made 
from the yolk of the eggs. 



34 

GRAPE JUICE JELLY. 

1 box gelatine 1 c cold water 

1 pt. grape juice iy 2 c sugar 

Juice 2 lemons iy 2 pts. boiling water 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Dissolve in boiling 
water. Strain and add lemon and grape juices and sugar. Set 
in ice water, and when it thickens add grapes cut in halves and 
seeded. Mold on ice and garnish with violets when served. 

GRAPES IN JELLY. 

1/2 box gelatine Grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

1 c sugar 1/2 e powdered sugar 

1 c grapes 2 c grape juice 

Soak gelatine in grape juice, and dissolve over boiling water. 
Add sugar and lemon juice. When dissolved, add grated rind 
and powdered sugar. Set in ice water to thicken; then add 
seeded and skinned grapes and place on ice. 

GRAPE WHIP. 

1 pt. cream % c sugar 

V/2 c grape juice Whites 2 eggs 

Beat the egg whites and add fruit juice mixed with sugar. 

Add cream and beat. As froth rises, take it off and drain on 

a sieve. Pour the unwhipped mixture into glasses, and pile 

with whip on top. Serve cold. 

GRAPE JUICE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Y^ box gelatine Vi c c °ld water 

% c boiling water iy 2 c cream 

1 c grape juice Lady fingers 

Juice y 2 lemon 
Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes and dissolve in boiling 
water. Add grape and lemon juices. Place in ice water, and 
when it thickens fold in cream. Turn into mold lined with lady 
fingers. Serve garnished with violets. 

GRAPE SHERBET. 

3 c water White 1 egg 

1^/2 c grape juice 1 c sugar 

Juice 1 lemon 



35 

Boil sugar and water, and when cool, add fruit juice. Freeze 
partly, add egg white and finish freezing. 

GRAPE MOUSSE. 

1 tsp gelatine 4 tbsp cold water 

3 tbsp sugar % tsp vanilla extract 

1 c grape juice 1 pt. cream 

Soak gelatine in cold water, and dissolve over boiling water. 
Add sugar, vanilla and grape juice. Beat well and fold in 
whipped cream. Place in mold or freezer packed in salt and 
ice for 4 hours. 

GRAPE ICE CREAM. 

Add 1 pt. grape juice to 1 qt. cream or custard mixture when 
partly frozen. Use fresh or preserved grapes. 



36 



GUAVA 

There are several varieties of guavas, the sour and the sweet 
red, the sweet white, and the small strawberry. As tin dis- 
colors guavas, the pulp should be pressed through a net or hair 
sieve. 

Guavas may be dried in an evaporator, to keep for home 
use when out of season, or exported to be used for jellies and 
preserves. 

GUAVAS SIMPLEST. 

Peel, slice, and sprinkle liberally with sugar. Let stand sev- 
eral hours. Serve cold. 

GUAVAS SERVED IN SKIN. 

1. Take firm, large guavas. Cut off stem ends and with 
spoon loosen pulp around center. Mix this with powdered 
sugar. Serve placed on guava leaves arranged on plates. 

2. Take pulp out of guava and strain through net, extract- 
ing seeds. Mix with little sugar, or sugar and cream, and 
place in skin again. 

STEWED WHOLE GUAVAS. 

Take skins from guavas, and pierce with a fork. Drop in 
boiling syrup made of 2 parts water and 1 part sugar. Cook 
till tender, but do not break. These are for immediate use. 

STEWED GUAVAS WITHOUT SEEDS. 

Peel skin from guavas carefully with silver knift. Cut them 
in halves lengthwise, and take out seeds with a spoon. Place 
seeds and skins in a saucepan with little water and simmer. 
Cut halves into long strips. When juice is well cooked from 
seeds, strain through net, sweeten, return to stove and gently 
drop the strips into hot juice. Do not stir, but press down 
syrup and remove scum. Simmer until tender, keeping the 
form of the strips. If a marmalade is desired, boil until 
syrup jellies when dropped, and cooled on a saucer. For this 
add % as much sugar as pulp and juice. 



37 

GUAVA SYRUP. 

1 pt. peeled and sliced guavas 1 pt. sugar 

% pt. water 

Boil the sugar and water until it strings. Add guava pulp, 
and cook till translucent. Strain off the syrup. Reheat and 
pour into sterilized bottles. Seal well. Dilute for use with 
griddle cakes, in ices, and drink when fresh fruit cannot 
be had. 

GUAVA MARMALADE. 

Cut ends off guavas, slice, add little water, and cook until 
soft. Strain free from seeds in a colander. Add ^2 to % as 
much sugar as pulp, and cook over an asbestos mat, stirring 
occasionally until it thickens. 

SPICED GUAVA MARMALADE. 

Make the same as above, addng x /2 tsp cinnamon and y± tsp 
cloves to each qt. of fruit pulp. 

GUAVA JELLY. 

Cut ends off guavas, slice, add little water, and cook until 
tender. Pour into cloth bag, and let juice drip over night. In 
morning add equal amount sugar as juice, and boil, stirring 
until sugar is dissolved. "When it boils up hard, test by drop- 
ping from a spoon on a saucer. If it jellies when cool, the 
jelly is done. Pour into sterilized glasses, and seal when cool 
with melted paraffin. For a tart jelly to serve with meats, 
use less sugar. In order to have a light colored jelly, make in 
small quantities and cook quickly. Make remaining pulp into 
marmalade. 

GUAVA JELLY SAUCE. 

Add a little boiling water to jelly. Spice and thicken with 
cornstarch if desired. Serve with cottage pudding. 

GUAVA JELLY ROLL. 

Make a sponge cake, and bake in large pan. When done, 
place on a cloth, spread with guava jelly, and roll. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, and roll tight in cloth. 



38 

GUAVA MARMALADE COOKIES 

1 c sugar % c butter 

y 2 c guava marmalade *4 tsp soda 

Cinnamon 

Cream butter and sugar together. Add cinnamon and guava 
marmalade, the soda dissolved in 1 tbsp boiling water, and 
flour eonugh to roll thin. 

GUAVA MARMALADE CAKE. 

y> tsp cinnamon 1 c guava marmalade 

%= c buttermilk or sour milk 2 c flour 

1 e sugar % c butter 

y<2, tsp soda 3 eggs 

-/4 tsp cloves 
Cream sugar and butter, add beaten eggs, marmalade, spices, 
soda dissolved in the milk, and flour. Bake x /2 hour in hot 
oven. 

GUAVA JUJUBE PASTE. 

Make as for jelly, allowing it to cook until it becomes tough. 
Use in fondant, or cut in squares and wrap in paraffin paper. 

GUAVA SAUCE. 

1 tbsp butter 1 c guava juice 

1 c sugar 1 tbsp flour 

Stew guava and pour off juice. Melt butter until it bub- 
bles, add flour, mixing thoroughly. Add guava juice in which 
sugar has been stirred. Let boil up well, and serve hot with 
cottage pudding. Guava jelly may be used in place of the juice, 
melting it with boiling water and omitting the sugar. 

GUAVA IN JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine % c cold water 

1 c guava pulp 1% c boiling water 

% c sugar 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the boiling 
water. Strain, and add sugar and guava pulp, which has been 
pressed through a net. Pour in mold, and put on ice. Serve 
with cream. 



39 

GUAVA SPONGE. 

1 c guava pulp x /± box gelatine 

% c sugar i/4 c cold water 

Whites 2 eggs 
Make as grape sponge and serve with cream. 

GUAVA WHEY AND CHEESE. 

4 guavas 4 tbsp sugar 

1 pt. milk 1 junket tablet 

Press guava pulp through net. Crush junket tablet in tbsp 
cold water. Put milk on stove, and when lukewarm, remove. 
Add dissolved junket tablet and guava pulp. The whey of 
the milk will separate from the curd. Pour off whey, and 
serve iced as a drink. It can be used as lemon whey is used in 
invalid cookery. Serve curd as guava cheese. 

GUAVA WHIP. 

4 tbsp sugar 1 c guava pulp White 1 egg 

Press guava pulp through net. Beat white of egg. Add 

sugar to guava pulp, and beat into egg white. Serve iced in 

sherbet glasses. Cream may be added. 

GUAVA SOUFFLE. 

Powdered sugar Salt 

Whites 4 eggs 1 c guava pulp 

Beat egg whites stiffly with pinch of salt. Add guava pulp 
which has been sweetened with powdered sugar. Turn into 
buttered pudding dish, or individual molds, in pan of hot 
water, and bake in slow oven until firm. 

GUAVA SHORTCAKE. 

Mash 2 qts. strawberry guavas, and mix with sugar. Let 
stand 2 hours. Make a biscuit dough, and bake in pie tin. 
When done and still hot, cut edges, and pull apart with forks. 
Turn crumb sides up, and butter. Place sugared guava on 
both sides, leaving juice in container. Place one layer on 
other. Serve sugared guava juice as sauce with shortcake. 

GUAVA PIE. 

Fill pie shell with guava marmalade and bake. When done, 



40 

add meringue made of 2 egg whites and 2 tbsp sugar, and 
brown in the oven. Serve hot or cold. 

GUAVA SNOW WITH CUSTARD SAUCE. 

2 tbsp cornstarch y 2 c boiling water 

2 tbsp cold water % c sugar 

"Whites 2 eggs 1 c guava pulp (preferably white) 

Boil sugar and water. Dissolve cornstarch in cold water 
and add, stirring constantly. "When it thickens, take from 
fire and add guava pulp. Beat this into egg whites which have 
been previously whipped stiff. Heap in glass serving dish and 
place on ice. For custard sauce, heat 1 c milk, and 2 tbsp 
sugar, and beaten yolks of eggs. Do not boil, but steam 
until it coats a knife blade. Pour this around the snow when 
it is served. 

STEAMED WHIP WITH GUAVA SAUCE. 

Make whip of whites 4 eggs, 2 tbsp sugar, and 1 tsp lemon 
extract. Put into tin mold, and place mold in container of 
boiling water on stove. Steam 20 minutes. Invert mold on 
serving dish. Place around it stewed guavas or guava syrup 
diluted. 

GUAVA MOUSSE. 

1 pt. cream 1 c guava pulp 

1 c powdered sugar *4 tsp salt 

Whip cream, add salt, sugar, and guava pulp. Pack 4 hrs. 
in equal parts salt and ice. 

GUAVA SHERBET. 

1 c water 1 c guava pulp 

V2 tsp gelatine 1 c sugar 

Boil water and sugar 20 minutes; add gelatine softened in 
little cold water, and strain. When cool, add guava pulp 
and freeze. 

GUAVA ICE CREAM. 

1 pt. guava pulp 1 pt. cream 1 pt. sugar 

Scald the cream and sugar, and when cool add the guava 
pulp. Freeze. 



41 



MANGO 

A great many varieties of this fruit have been introducea, 
but the common sour, or chutney, and Hawaiian sweet mango 
can still hold their places. 

MANGOES SIMPLE. 

To eat a mango, pierce the stem end with a fork or nut 
pick. Hold it in one hand by the fork, and peel with a silver 
knife in the other hand. Eat from the fork. 
Or slice mangoes and eat as peaches. 

PRESERVED MANGOES. 

Peel skin from mangoes which are a little under ripe. 
Place in glass jars and cover with syrup made of 2 parts 
sugar to 4 parts water. Adjust covers loosely. Place jars 
in steamer and steam until tender, adding more syrup if 
necessary. Seal tight. 

MANGO JELLY. 

Peel and slice mangoes. Add to 7 large mangoes 2^ c 
water and boil for 20 minutes. Strain through double cheese 
cloth and add gradually !/o c water and wash down juice. 
Add equal parts sugar to juice, and boil for 10 minutes, or 
till it jellies when dropped, and cooled on a saucer. 

MANGO MARMALADE— 1. 

Strain the pulp remaining from the jelly through a sieve 
to get the strings out and add § as much sugar as pulp. 
Boil 20 to 30 minutes, or until thick and glassy. 

MANGO MARMALADE— 2. 

Peel and slice under ripe mangoes; cover with water and 
boil until soft. Strain, add ^ as much sugar as mango and 
boil again, placing an asbestos mat under container. Cook 
until glassy and thick. 



42 

MANGO AND PAPAYA MARMALADE. 

Make the same as mango marmalade 2, using % as much 
ripe papaya as mango. A little lemon rind, cut in small bits, 
may also be added. 

SPICED MANGO MARMALADE. 

Make as marmalade and add Yi tsp cloves and ^ tsp cin- 
namon to 1 qt. fruit pulp. 

STEWED MANGO. 

Take mangoes when under ripe. Peel skins and cut in 
slices. Make syrup of 1 part sugar to 2 parts water, and drop 
slices in. Cook till transparent. 

STEWED RIPE MANGO. 

Peel and slice ripe mangoes. Add sugar and cinnamon, 
and simmer slowly till quite dark. 

MANGO SALAD. 

Slice ripe mangoes and serve on lettuce leaves, with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

MANGO PICKLE. 

Make a syrup of equal parts vinegar and sugar. Place a 
small bag containing 2 parts cinnamon to 1 part cloves in the 
syrup. Peel and slice under ripe mangoes and drop in the 
boiling syrup. Boil until clear. Skim out and place in jars. 
Boil S3 r rup down to original volume and pour into jars. 

MANGO CHUTNEY . 

Take one 14 inch galvanized bucketful of green chutney 
mangoes; peel and slice them. Or take four lbs. of sliced 
mangoes. 

1 qt. vinegar 1 lb. bleached almonds 

1 lb. currants % lb. green ginger 

V4 lb. garlic a /2 lb. salt 

3 lb. brown sugar 2 lb. raisins 

2 oz. yellow chili pepper 
Chop all fine except raisins and currants. Cook 4 hours, 
stirring to prevent burning; put in bottles and seal. Mix 
and let stand over night before cooking if possible. Can be 



43 

made with sweet mangoes, using the juice of 5 or 6 limes 
or lemons. 

MANGO PIE. 

Pill a pie shell with stewed mangoes and bake in 2 crusts. 
A little cinnamon may be added to the mango. 

MANGO SHERBET. 

Stew under ripe mangoes in little water. Strain and add 
1 c sugar to each l 1 /^ pt. mangoes. Cool and freeze. 



44 



OHELO 

This is the Hawaiian fruit resembling the American blue- 
berry in shape and texture. It is found on the high mountains 
of East Maui and Hawaii, especially near the Volcano House. 

OHELO AND GUAVA JELLY. 

2 qts. ohelo juice a /2 c guava jelly 

1% Pt s - sugar 
Make as other jellies. This combination resembles cran- 
berry sauce. 

OHELO AND THIMBLEBERRY JELLY. 

Cook 1 measure of ohelos and 2 measures of thimbleberries 
in separate containers until soft. Strain through cloth bags 
and combine juices, adding % as much sugar as juice. Pro- 
ceed as with other jellies. 

OHELO JAM. 

Boil 2 measures ohelos, \'2 measure sugar and few slices 
lemon for 1 hour or more. 

OHELO SAUCE. 

y± measure sugar ^4 measure guava jelly 

When boiling, add 2 measures of ohelos and remove from 
stove before the ohelos have broken, which will be in a very 
few minutes. The guava jelly may be omitted, but it is an 
improvement. 

OHELO PIE. 

Heat ohelos, adding a little sugar and orange marmalade, 
guava jelly or a slice or two of lemon. Pour off most of the 
juice. Make pie with two crusts, the top one slatted like 
the old-fashioned cranberry tart. Cream is an improvement. 

OHELO SHORTCAKE. 

Make a biscuit dough and bake in a pie tin. Boil 1 c 
sugar and % c water until it strings ; then drop in 1 qt. of 
ohelos and boil until soft. "When cake is done, open, butter 
and fill with part of the berries ; remaining berries pour over 
cake when it is served. 



45 



OHIA 

The ohia, or mountain apple is found in the market during 
the season which lasts from July until December. The thin 
skin contains much of the flavor and should not be removed 
in using the fruit. 

OHIA PRESERVES. 

Make a syrup of 2 parts sugar and 4 parts water. Quarter 
the ohias and place in the boiling syrup. Cook about 45 mins., 
until the fruit is clear, then fill into sterilized bottles. 

OHIA SWEET PICKLES. 

Make a syrup of 1 pt. vinegar and 3 lbs. of sugar. Season 
with 1 part cloves to 2 parts cinnamon, tied in a cloth bag. 
When it boils, drop fruit in and cook about 30 mins., or until 
fruit is clear. The ohias may be pickled whole, in halves, or 
quarters. If cooked whole, pierce fruit with cloves. 

OHIA PIE. 

Line a pie tin with paste and fill with sliced ohias. Strew 
over this % c sugar, bits of butter, and juice of ^2 lemon. 
Bake about 15 mins. ; then add upper crust and bake until 
brown. 

OHIA SNOW SHERBET. 

1 pt. water 1 pt. fruit juice 

1 c sugar Juice i/2 lemon 

1 tsp gelatine 

Take ripe ohias which are a deep red color cut into small 
pieces, and squeeze the juice out through a cloth. Boil the 
sugar and water for 20 minutes, add softened gelatine, and, 
strain ; when cool add the fruit juice and freeze. 



46 



ORANGE 

Hawaiian oranges are juicier, and contain less of the white, 
pithy portion under the skin, than the imported ones. 

ORANGE DRINK. 

Juice 12 oranges Sugar 

1 pineapple Juice 3 lemons 

Cut pineapple in small pieces. Mix with the juice and 
sweeten to taste. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Wash oranges. Cut in halves crosswise. Squeeze out juice 
and seeds. Take out white, pithy part of pulp in the skins. 
Put the skins and pulp through a meat chopper. Place in 
saucepan of water on the stove and boil, changing water 3 
times, the last time adding orange juice to skins. Measure 
and add equal measure of sugar. Boil till it becomes glassy, 
2 hrs. or longer. 

Or take off orange peel in quarters. Boil, changing the 
water 3 times; then cut into strips and add to the orange 
pulp, which has been freed from seeds. If sweet oranges are 
used, add juice of 1 lemon to every 4 oranges. Boil, add equal 
measure of sugar, and boil again, until thick and glassy. This 
may take an hour. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Juice 1 lemon 1/2 c cold water 

y% box gelatine 1 c boiling water 

1 c sugar 1 pt. orange juice 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the boiling 
water. Add sugar and stir until dissolved and cooled. Strain 
and add the orange and lemon juice. Pour into mold or 
orange skins. 

ORANGE AMBROSIA. 

Slice 6 oranges and cover with sugar. Grate */2 coconut. 
Arrange in glass dish in alternate layers of orange and coco- 
nut, and heap coconut on top. 



47 

ORANGE AND MINT. 

Pulp 4 oranges 2 tbsp finely chopped mint 

2 tbsp lemon juice 2 tbsp sugar 

Mix all together. Place on ice and serve in sherbet glasses 
as a salad course. 

ORANGE STRAWS. 

Cut orange skins in strips and boil, changing the water 
3 times, until the peel is tender and no longer bitter. Make 
a syrup of equal parts sugar and water, and cook peel in it 
10 minutes. Lift out with a fork, or skimmer, on a plate. 
"When cool, roll in granulated sugar. Place on buttered plate. 
Koll again in sugar the next day. 

ORANGE SPONGE. 

1 c sugar y 2 c boiling water 

% box gelatine 1 pt. orange juice 

!/2 c cold water Whites 4 eggs 

Soak gelatine in the cold water 5 minutes and dissolve 
in the boiling water. Add sugar and stir until dissolved and 
cooled; then add the orange juice. Place in a dish of ice 
water until it thickens; then beat in the whites of eggs which 
have been whipped to a stiff froth. Beat with a Dover egg 
beater until smooth. Turn into a mold and place on ice. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. 

5 or 6 oranges 1 pt. milk 

1 c sugar 3 eggs 

1 tbsp cornstarch 

Peel oranges and cut into small pieces, taking out the white 
pulp. Place in a pudding dish covered with 1 c sugar. Make 
a custard of the milk and yolks of eggs, adding 2 tbsp sugar 
and the cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk. When 
cool, pour this over the oranges. With the egg whites and 2 
tbsp powdered sugar make a meringue and spread on pudding. 
Place in oven to brown or serve without browning. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

1/2 box gelatine 1 c cold water 

1 c sugar 1 c orange juice and pulp 

Whites 3 eggs Juice ^ lemon 

2 c whipped cream 



48 

Soak gelatine in water and dissolve over boiling water. 
Strain and add sugar, lemon juice, orange juice and pnlp. 
Place in ice water, and when it thickens, stir until frothy; 
then add whites of eggs stiffly beaten, and fold in cream. 
Line a mold with orange sections, and turn in mixture. Set 
on ice. 

ORANGE WraP. 

Juice 1 orange 1 pt. cream 

2 tbsp sugar 2 tbsp grated coconut 

1 egg Grated rind of orange 

Mix sugar and coconut with the orange juice and grated 

rind. Whip the cream, and beat the mixture into it. Place 

on ice and serve cold. 

ORANGE MARSHMALLOW. 

1 lb. marshmallows Juice 2 oranges 

Juice 2 China oranges Sugar 

Cut each marshmallow into 4 pieces and squeeze over them 
the strained juice of the fruit. Add % c or more of sugar. 
Mix all in bowl and set on ice. Serve in sherbet glasses with 
a maraschino cherry on top each glass. Pink marshmallows 
may be used. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Slice 4 peeled oranges. Mix with 1 tbsp lemon juice and 
3 tbsp oil. Arrange in heap on lettuce leaves. In the center 
place 1 c chopped nuts mixed with 1 tbsp lemon juice. 

ORANGE PUDDING FOR TWO. 

1 orange 1 egg 

1 c milk 2 tbsp sugar 

Skin and seed orange. Cut in small pieces, and put in a 
baking dish. Beat the yolk of egg with sugar. Add milk 
and pour over orange. Bake pudding and add meringue 
made of the egg white and 1 tbsp sugar. 

ORANGE TART. 

Beat together juice of 2 oranges, grated peel of 1, % c 
sugar, 1 tbsp butter. Add 1 tsp cornstarch dissolved in 
juice of 1 lemon. Bake in tart shells. 



49 

ORANGE PIE. 

Cut oranges into small pieces. Place in pie crust and 
sweeten well. Add seeded raisins, sprinkle with flour and 
cover with upper crust Bake in hot oven Y2 hour. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

% c butter 1% c flour 

3 eggs 1 c sugar 

% c orange juice % grated rind of orange 

V-/2 tsp baking powder ^ tsp salt 

Cream butter and sugar, and add beaten yolks of eggs, salt, 
and grated rind of orange. Beat in orange juice and flour 
which has been sifted with the baking powder. Fold in stiffly 
whipped whites of eggs. Bake in loaf, and when cool spread 
with orange frosting. 

ORANGE FROSTING. 

Mix juice and grated peel of % orange with powdered 
sugar to make stiff enough to spread on cake. 

ORANGE FILLING. 

Juice 1 orange V/2 c sugar 

•/4 grated rind 1 tsp butter 

Yolks 2 eggs 
Beat eggs, add sugar, grated rind, butter, and juice of 
orange. Cook over hot water, stirring until it thickens. 
Spread between layers of cake. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

1 c sugar 1 c orange juice 

1 pt. water 1 tsp gelatine 

Boil water and sugar, and add gelatine soaked in little 

water 5 minutes. When cool, add orange juice. Strain 

and freeze. 



50 



PAPAYA 

The milky juice of the papaya contains a digestible prin- 
ciple similar to pepsin. Its leaves have the property of 
making tough meat tender when wrapped in them over 
night. 

PAPAYA PUNCH. 

Make a strong lemonade of 6 lemons, add 1 medium sized 
papaya cubed, and 5 or 6 bottles of ginger ale, according to 
amount desired. 

STEWED PAPAYA— 1. 

1/2 c sugar Juice 2 lemons 

2 c diced papaya ^4 c water 

Cut papaya in dice, and stew with sugar, water, and lemon 
juice % hr. Serve in sherbet glasses as a first course for 
luncheon, or a dessert. Can use 4 China oranges in place of 
lemons. 

STEWED PAPAYA— 2. 

Cook in the same manner as 1, with *4 c sugar and only 
enough water to keep from burning. Serve as a vegetable. 

STEWED GREEN PAPAYA. 

Take a green papaya which has no signs of yellow. Skin 
and cut in large pieces, and boil. Serve as a vegetable. It 
may be mashed like squash. 

BAKED PAPAYA. 

Cut papaya in halves lengthwise. Add a little sugar and 
China orange, lime or lemon juice ; or a little cinnamon in 
place of the juice. Bake 20 minutes, and serve immediately 
on taking from the oven. This is a vegetabe. 

PAPAYA AND CHINA ORANGE MARMALADE 

(See China Orange.) 



51 

PAPAYA AND TAMARIND. 

(See Tamarind.) 

PAPAYA PICKLE. 

Make syrup of 1 measured sugar and V2 measure vinegar. 
Add a few whole cloves and pepper corns and 2 measures 
of half ripe papaya cut into small pieces. Boil until tender. 

PAPAYA AND GINGER. 

Make a syrup of 1 measure sugar, y<% measure water, some 
finely sliced dried ginger, and a few slices of lemon. Add 2 
measures half ripe papaya sliced lengthwise, which has been 
previously simmered in water until clear, but not broken. 

PAPAYA AND BANANA. 

Put both fruits through round potato cutter and serve 
with lemon juice. 

PAPAYA COCKTAIL. 

Cut papaya in dice and serve in glasses with cocktail sauce 
and chipped ice. 

Or serve with China orange, lemon or lime juice, and little 
sugar in same manner. 

PAPAYA SALAD— 1 

On a strip of peeled papaya lay small bits of pomelo and 
orange. Serve with mayonnaise on separate plates, and 
garnish each with one or two nasturtium flowers and leaves. 

PAPAYA SALAD— 2. 

Cut papaya in cubes, and add 8 small Chinese onions and 
5 pieces green celery chopped fine. Serve with boiled dressing. 

PAPAYA WHIP. 

To V/2 c papaya pulp add juice 1 lemon, V2 c sugar and 
beat into 2 stiffly whipped whites of eggs. 

PAPAYA JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine % c sugar 

% c cold water 1 c boiling water 

Juice 1 lemon 1 c papaya pulp 



52 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water 5 minutes. Dissolve the 
sugar in the boiling water; add the gelatine, and strain. 
When cool, add the papaya and lemon juice. Place on ice 
to harden. 

PAPAYA BISCUIT. 

Use a baking powder biscuit receipt. Cut in rounds with a 
cutter and place rounds in muffin tins. On top of each round 
put a piece of papaya flavored with sugar and lemon juice. 
Bake and serve hdt. 

PAPAYA PIE. 

2 eggs 1 c sugar 

1 c papaya pulp Juice ^ lemon 

y<z c butter 
Make a bottom pie crust and bake. Cream butter and sugar. 
Add beaten eggs, lemon juice, and papaya. Pour into pie 
crust and bake. Make a meringue of whites of eggs and 2 
tbsp sugar. Place on pie and brown in oven. 

PAPAYA SHERBET. 

1 pt. water 1 pt. papaya pulp 

1 c sugar Juice Y* lemon 

Vi tsp gelatine 
Boil water and sugar 20 min., add gelatine softened. Strain 
and when cold add fruit and freeze. 

PAPAYA SHERBET WITH MILK. 

Juice of 3 lemons Pulp good sized papaya 

1 qt. milk 1 pt. sugar 

Soak sugar and lemon juice 2 or 3 hrs. When ready to 
freeze, add sugar and lemon juice to papaya and milk. It 
will curdle before freezing. 



53 



PINEAPPLE 

The pineapple is the only fruit known to contain a vege- 
table pepsin which aids digestion. In order to get the full 
benefit of this digestive principle, the fruit should be eaten 
fresh and without sugar. This vegetable pepsin dissolves 
albuminous substances, and hence the juice should be scalded 
before combining with milk, eggs, or gelatine. 

Tough meat placed between slices of pineapple over night 
will become tender. 

Pineapples do not sweeten if picked green. 

TO SERVE FRESH PINEAPPLE. 

Slice or grate pineapple, sprinkle with sugar and set in 
the ice box for several hours before serving. 

PINEAPPLE JUICE. 

Press out juice from pineapple and strain through flannel. 
To each measure of juice add % measure of sugar. Bring 
to boiling point, or stand in rapidly boiling water for 1 hour. 
Bottle while hot in sterilized containers. Use with lemon 
and water as a cold drink, or in punches, puddings, and sauces. 
It is good in hot or cold tea, with or without lemon. 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

Allow 1 measure sugar to 2 measures grated pineapple. 
Mix well and let stand over night. Next morning cook slowly 
for 2 hours or more. 

PINEAPPLE PICKLE. 

Take 1 measure vinegar, 3 measures brown sugar, a few 
whole cloves and pepper corns. Boil together. Add 4 measures 
pineapple cut into small pieces, and boil until fruit is golden 
yellow. If the syrup is not rich, boil down before pouring it 
over the fruit. If preferred, use 1 tsp cinnamon to x /-2 tsp 
cloves tied in cloth for spicing. The pickles are best made 

in pineapple vinegar. 



54 

PINEAPPLE VINEGAR. 

Press out juice from fresh pineapple and strain through 
double cheese cloth. Place in jar and leave to ferment 2 or 
3 weeks. It improves with age. 

PINEAPPLE IN OHELO JUICE. 

Boil slowly together 1 measure of minced pineapple and 
1 measure of ohelo juice until the pineappe is tender. Then 
add V2 measure of sugar and boil slowly for 2 or 3 hours, or 
until the fruit is the color of quince preserve. 

PINEAPPLE CHIPS. 

Cut pineapple into thin strips, lay on china dishes, and 
cover with granulated sugar. Keep strips separate. Dry in 
the sun or hot air closet. Sprinkle with sugar and turn 
every day, pouring off the syrup. When the chips are dry 
or crystallized, pack in jars or tin boxes with oiled paper 
between. 

CANDIED PINEAPPLE. 

To 1 measure of thickly sliced and cored pineapple add 1 
measure of sugar. Boil together until the fruit is of a rich 
golden color. Take from the syrup, spread on dishes in the 
sun, turning every day until dry. 

PINEAPPLE AND OHELO JELLY. 

Boil pineapple and ohelos separately. Strain through jelly 
bag. To 1 measure pineapple juice and 1 of ohelo juice add 
1 measure white sugar. Cook the same as other jellies. The 
ohelos bring out the pineapple flavor. 

PINEAPPLE AND GUAVA JELLY. 

Cut ends off guavas, add a little water and cook until 
soft. Peel equal amount of pineapple. Cut in small pieces 
and cook until soft. Strain both juices through a bag. Add 
equal amount of sugar and boil again, stirring until the sugar 
is dissolved. Skim off scum, and when it boils up hard, test 
by dropping on a saucer. If it jellies when cool, it is done. 
Pour into sterilized bottles and seal. 



55 

PINEAPPLE CHUTNEY. 

2 oz. pepper l 1 /^ lbs. brown sugar 

1 oz. garlic l 1 /^ pts. vinegar 

3 lbs. pineapple Y2 lb- raisins 

2 tbsp ginger % lb. almonds 

1 tbsp salt 
Cook pineapple, vinegar, and salt. Chop nuts, raisins, garlic, 
and pepper fine, and add to pineapple. As the pineapple is 
juicy, it requires boiling down. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Pare and cut in dice 1 pineapple. Wash and cut fine Vo 
as much celery. Whip Vs c cream or white 1 egg into 
mayonnaise, and mix part with the pineapple and celery. 
Place this on lettuce leaves. On top heap remaining mayon- 
naise and garnish with celery tips. 

PINEAPPLE AND AVOCADO SALAD. 

(See Avocado.) 

PINEAPPLE MINCE MEAT— 1. 

Mix 1 measure minced cooked pineapple, % measure raisins 
and currants, some thinly sliced citron or orange peel, or 
both. Powdered cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg to taste. Syrup 
from sweet pickles or sweetened vinegar. Before making 
the pies, add chopped bananas or apples. 

PINEAPPLE MINCE MEAT— 2. 

1 pt. chopped meat 3 c brown sugar 

3 pts. crushed pineapple 1% c molasses 

with juice (canned or fresh) Butter size of egg 

1 extra c pineapple juice 2 tsp cinnamon 

iy 2 c raisins 2 tsp allspice 

1 c currants 1 tsp cloves 

1 tbsp salt V2 tsp pepper 

Simmer all together for an hour, stirring often. Add 1 tbsp 

cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water, and boil again. 

Then add 1 c wine or brandy, and seal in glass jars. When 

making the pies, heat the meat, and add 2 tbsp brandy to 

each pie. 



56 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

1 grated pineapple 2 tbsp flour 

1 c water 2 c sugar 

2 eggs Salt 

Mix all together, and bake in 2 crusts. This makes 2 large 
or 3 small pies. 

PINEAPPLE AND GUAVA PUDDING. 

Boil 2 c grated pineapple and x /2 c guava jelly very slowly 
for 20 minutes. Add 1 tbsp cornstarch dissolved in little cold 
water, and stir until clear. "When ready to serve, whip cream 
and mix fruit with it. 

PINEAPPLE SHORTCAKE. 

Make the same as pineapple and guava pudding without 
cornstarch. Pour between and on top of rich biscuit crust, 
and serve at once. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

To 5 measures grated pineapple add 1 measure white sugar 
Boil slowly till clear and seal. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

1 tbsp gelatine 1 c grated pineapple 
% c boiling water 2 tbsp sugar 

Juice Y2 lemon or 1 tsp lemon extract 
Soak gelatine in ^ c cold water and dissolve in the boil- 
ing water. Add sugar and lemon juice. Strain, and when 
cool set on ice for % hr. When it thickens, beat in the 
grated pineapple that has been previously brought to poll- 
ing point. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

2 tbsp gelatine 2 c pineapple juice 
% c cold water 1 c sugar 

1 pt. cream 
Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Dissolve by set- 
ting container in boiling water. Heat pineapple juice to 
boiling point and add sugar. Combine, and let cool in ice 
water. When it thickens, beat in cream, previously scalded. 
Place on ice. 



57 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

1 grated pineapple f c sugar 

% box gelatine % c cold water 

Whites 2 eggs Lemon juice 

Let pineapple simmer on stove 10 minutes. Add sugar 
and lemon juice. Soak gelatine in the cold water and dis- 
solve in pineapple. Strain into mold, let cool, and set on 
ice for % hour. Then add stiffly beaten whites of eggs, and 
beat well. Set on ice until served. 

PINEAPPLE JARDNIERE. 

Cut top from pineapple and reserve for cover. Scoop out 
the inside and combine with 2 bananas, 2 oranges, and the 
seedless pulp of 1 c grapes. Add sugar and serve cold in 
the pineapple rind. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING— 1. 

3 tbsp instantaneous tapioca 4 tbsp sugar 

1 c cold water 2 c fresh pineapple juice 

1 tbsp butter 2 eggs 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water, add % tsp salt and 
sugar. Boil until clear, adding as little water as possible. 
Beat the yolks of eggs and stir them and the butter into the 
mixture. When smooth, take from the fire, add pineapple and 
i/2 tsp lemon extract. Turn into a baking dish. Beat the 
egg whites with 2 tbsp sugar and put on top. Brown 2 or 3 
minutes in very hot oven. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING— 2. 
y 2 c minute tapioca 1 small pineapple 

3 c hot water V-h c sugar 

2 eggs 
Boil tapioca in hot water until clear. Chop pineapple fine 
and add to sugar ; then stir into tapioca and let boil up. Beat 
this into the stiffly whipped whites of eggs. Serve cold with 
a custard made from the yolks of the eggs. 

PINEAPPLE AND COCONUT. 

Cut fresh pineapple in small triangles, and place in a dish 
with a mound of grated coconut and sugar on top. Serve as 
a dessert. 



58 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET— 1. 

1 pt. scalding pineapple juice % tsp gelatine 

1 pt. water Juice 1 lemon 

1 pt. sugar 
Soak the gelatine in *4 c cold water for 10 minutes. Add 
1 c boiling water, and stir until dissolved. Add sugar and 
% c cold water ; then pineapple juice which has been strained 
and measured after straining. Freeze. Either canned or 
fresh pineapple may be used. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET— 2. 

2 large pineapples 1 pt. water 

2 c sugar Juice 4 lemons 

Whites 4 eggs 
Grate pineapple to extract the juice, strain and add juice of 
lemons. Add sugar to the whipped whites of eggs. Com- 
bine and freeze at once. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Scald 1 pt. of pineapple juice. Add juice % lemon, and 
sweeten to taste. Add this to 1 qt. of any plain cream when 
partly frozen. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE. 

1 c pineapple syrup 1 tsp gelatine 

1 pt. cream 2 tbsp cold water 

1 c powdered sugar ^4 tsp salt 

Heat 1 can pineapple and drain juice. Soak gelatine in 
the cold water and dissolve in the hot syrup. Add salt, lemon 
juice, and sugar. Strain and cool. Place in ice water and 
when it thickens fold in whipped cream. Freeze in freezer or 
mold, packed in equal parts salt and ice for 4 hours. 



59 



POHA 

The poha is the Hawaiian gooseberry. 
POHA JAM. 

Stew pohas with little water until soft. Measure and add 
equal measure of sugar. Cook until glassy. An asbestos mat 
under the saucepan will prevent burning. 

POHA JELLY. 

Cook pohas with little water until the juice comes well 
out. Strain through a cloth bag, and add equal measure 
of sugar. Cook until it jellies when dropped on a saucer 
and cooled. 

Or serve syrup before it has jellied with plain ice cream. 

POHA PIE— 1. 

Fill a pie crust with stewed pohas, and add 1 tbsp butter. 
Cover with upper crust and bake 30 minutes in hot oven. 

POHA PIE— 2. 

Line a pie dish with paste, and bake. "When done, put in 
a layer of poha jam, then a custard made of 1 c milk, 1 tsp 
butter, 1 tsp cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk, the 
yolks of 2 eggs, and vanilla flavoring. Spread the sweetened 
whipped egg whites on top, and brown slightly in hot oven. 
Serve cold. 

POHA JAM COOKIES. 

Use a good, but not too rich, cooky receipt. Koll out and 
cut into strips 4 inches wide. Spread almost half the width 
with poha jam and fold over the other half, pinching the 
edges together. Then cut in 3 inch lengths and bake. 

POHA JAM SURPRISES. 

Make soft, thin baking powder biscuit rounds about the 
size of saucers. Put a little poha jam on one side, and turn 
over the other, wetting the edges and pinching together. 
Bake quickly and serve warm. 



60 

POHA SHORTCAKE. 

Boil pohas in almost no water for a few moments. There 
should be very few broken. Pour off most of the juice. 
Sweeten, and thicken the remainder with a little cornstarch. 
Serve with biscuit rounds for shortcake or bake between 2 
pie crusts. 



01 



POMELO AND SHADDOCK 

The pomelo is the same fruit as the grape fruit, but the 
name pomelo is now given the preference. The shaddock 
is the large, coarse form of the same species. 

TO SERVE POMELO. 

1. Cut fruit in halves. Separate pulp from skin with silver 
knife. Cut out white pulp in center, and free juice in lobes 
by running knife through them. Add sugar and place on ice 
until served. A maraschino cherry may be placed in center of 
each half. 

2. Cut in halves. Take all pulp out. Mix with sugar and 
place on ice 1 or 2 hours before serving. Serve for breakfast, 
or first course for luncheon. 

POMELO ASPIC SALAD. 

Cut and divide pomelo into sections. Lay these on a flat 
dish and sprinkle with chopped nuts. Take % box gelatine 
and soak in % c cold water 5 minutes. Add l 1 ^ c boiling 
water. "When dissolved, strain and season with salt, 1 tbsp 
lemon juice and paprika. Pour this over pomelo and nuts, 
and when cool set on ice to harden. Serve cut in blocks on 
lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

POMELO SALAD. 

Cut pomelo into halves. Take out pulp and divide into 
sections. Mix with chopped nuts, and replace in half skins. 
Serve with mayonnaise. 

POMELO JELLY. 

% box gelatine 2 c pomelo juice and pulp 

% c cold water Juice 1 lemon 

1 c boiling water 1 c or less sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in boiiing water. 
Add sugar, lemon juice, and pomelo juice and pulp. Let 
partly set before turning into mold, in order to avoid set- 
tling of pulp. May be served in baskets made of pomelo 
skins. 



62 

POMELO MARMALADE. 

To 2 pomelos allow 2 lemons. Cut pomelos in halves and 
remove centers and seeds. Remove seeds from lemons and 
grind all in a meat chopper. Cover with boiling water and 
let stand over night. Cook till tender, then add 2 c sugar 
and cook until it thickens and becomes glassy. 

Or take off peel of pomelos in quarters and boil, changing 
the water 3 times; then scrape out the white, pithy portion, 
and cut skin in strips. Free pulp from seeds and cut in small 
pieces. Add this to the skins and boil until thick and glassy. 

CANDIED POMELO PEEL. 

Slice, peel and cover with water, adding 1 tbsp salt to 1 qt. 
water. Leave over night. In morning drain and place peel 
in saucepan, a little more than covering it with fresh water, 
and boil gently for 4 hours. Drain, add cold water as before, 
and boil till tender. Again drain, weigh peel, and add equal 
weight sugar and 1 c water to each pound. Boil gently 1 
hour with saucepan covered. Remove cover and let simmer 
till syrup is all absorbed, taking care not to burn. Spread 
on platter and leave 2-4 hours, or until it seems fairly dry; 
then roll each piece in fine granulated sugar, shaking off the 
sugar to prevent caking. Let stand few hours to dry; then 
place in covered jar. 

TO SERVE SHADDOCK. 

1. Extract pulp from shaddock and add orange juice and 
little sugar. Serve iced in sherbet glasses. 

2. Extract pulp from shaddock and serve with seeded 
dried dates or figs which give the required sweetness. 

SHADDOCK SALAD. 

Extract pulp from shaddock, ice and serve on lettuce leaves 
with mavonnaise. 



63 



ROSELLE 

The seed of the roselle is covered with a red calyx which is 
similar to the cranberry when cooked. It can be cooked 
whole, but makes a less stringy substance when the seed is re- 
moved from the calyx. 

ROSELLE DRINK. 

Stew the calyxes of the roselle with little water until soft. 
Strain the juice and add sugar and water to taste. 

STEWED ROSELLE. 

Stew the calyxes of the roselle with little water until soft, 
then add sugar to taste. 

ROSELLE JELLY. 

Cook the calyxes of the roselle, until soft, in enough water 
to keep from burning. Strain the juice through cloth bag and 
add equal measure of sugar, stirring until sugar is dissolved. 
Skim off all skum. When it boils up hard, test by dropping 
from a spoon on a saucer. It is done if it jellies when cool. 

ROSELLE MARMALADE— 1. 

Take the pulp left from the jelly. Add a little water if too 
thick and an equal measure, or more of sugar, if a solid 
marmalade is desired. Cook over an asbestos mat until it 
thickens. 

ROSELLE MARMALADE— 2. 

Cook 3 lbs. roselle calyxes in 2 c water for 1 hr. Measure 
and add 1% c sugar to each c fruit. Stir or cook over asbestos 
mat until thick. 

ROSELLE SAUCE. 

1 tbsp cornstarch 1 c sugar 

1 c roselle calyxes 1 tbsp butter 

Cook the calyxes with little water until soft. Strain the 



64 

juice through a colander. Melt the butter, add the cornstarch 
stirring. When it thickens, add sugar and juice and let boil 
up. Serve with cottage pudding. 

ROSELLE GELATINE. 

% box gelatine 1 c sugar 

2 c cold water Juice % lemon 

1 c boiling water 1 c roselle calyxes 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 min. Cook roselles in boiling 
water until soft, then strain through sieve. Place juice on fire, 
add sugar, gelatine, and lemon juice. Turn into a mold and 
place on ice. Serve with cream. 

ROSELLE PIE. 

Line a pie dish with paste and fill with stewed and sweetened 
roselle calyxes. Cover with upper crust and bake. Papaya 
pulp may be used with the roselle in pie. 

ROSELLE SHERBET. 

1 qt. water 1^2 e roselle juice 

2 c sugar 1 tsp gelatine 

Boil water and sugar 20 min. ; add softened gelatine. Strain, 
and when cool, add roselle juice taken from stewed roselle 
calyxes. 



65 



TAMARIND 

The tamarind contains a laxative and cooling quality which 
makes it of value in cases of illness. 

TAMARIND DRINK. 

1. Shell tamarind, and cover with water. Let soak several 
hours; then take the water from tamarinds, dilute with 
fresh water, and sweeten to taste. 

2. To make drink quickly. Place 10 or 12 shelled tama- 
rinds in a 2 qt. pitcher filled with water. Stir well, and add 
sugar to taste. 

TAMARINDS PRESERVED. 

1. Shell tamarinds. Place layer in jar, and cover with 
sugar. Repeat until jar is filled ; then seal. Use candy boxes 
in same way, placing paraffin paper between layers of 
tamarinds. 

2. Shell tamarinds and press tightly together in form of 
ball. Cover with cloth. An easy way to carry them in travel- 
ing, in which they will keep for years. 

3. Make syrup of equal measures sugar and water. Boil 
tamarinds in this, and pour into jars to be kept for drinks. 

TAMARIND AND PAPAYA. 

Cook 1 c of shelled tamarinds in little water until soft. 
Strain pulp through colander. Add to tamarind pulp, 1 qt. 
papaya pulp and 1 c sugar. Cook 30 or 45 min. 

TAMARIND AND BANANA. 

Make the same as above, using tamarind in place of the 
papaya. 

TAMARIND CHUTNEY. 

x /o lb. tamarinds % lb. dates 

% lb. green ginger % lb. raisins 

y 2 lb. onions Yi lb. chili peppers 

4 tbsp brown sugar 2 tbsp salt 

Pound all with vinegar, and rub through a sieve. Bottle 
and seal. 



66 



TARO 

The taro, or l-alo, though not a fruit, is a typical Ha- 
waiian vegetable. It is very acrid, and stings the mouth if 
under cooked. 

BOILED TARO. 

Cut skin from taro, divide into 2 inch sections, and cover 
with salted water in a saucepan. Boil 40 minutes to 1 hour 
until tender. The skin may be left on, if it is well cleaned, 
and peeled after boiling. Serve with butter. 

TARO AND STEW. 

Cook taro with a stew in place of potatoes. 

TARO PART BOILED AND BAKED. 

Cut skin from taro and boil in salted water 20 minutes. 
Take from water and place on pan in hot oven for % hour 
Serve with butter and salt. 

BAKED TARO. 

Cut skin from taro, and if large, cut taro in half. Put in 
oven and bake for 1 hour. Break with the hands into in- 
dividual pieces and serve with butter and salt. 

FRIED TARO. 

Cut boiled taro into thin pieces. Sprinkle with salt, and 
fry in butter or lard. 

BAKED TARO CAKES. 

Mash hot boiled taro with a potato masher until free from 
lumps. Form into small cakes with the hands, using as little 
water as possible. Place in buttered pan, and bake % hour 
in hot oven. 

FRIED TARO CAKES. 

Make same as baked taro cakes, and fry in butter, or lard, 
or in deep fat. Drain and sprinkle with salt. For breakfast 



67 

taro cakes, boil and mash taro night before. In morning 
moisten with water, and shape. 

PAIAI. 

Bake taro and pound until free from lumps. Press and 
pack it. This will keep for months. 

POI. 

Dilute paiai with water and expose to fermentation. Eat 
with salt fish, or as a porridge with sugar and milk. Also use 
to thicken gravy instead of flour. 

POI COCKTAIL. 

To a glass of milk add 2 tbsp poi. Stir this into the milk 
and sweeten if desired. This is served to invalids. 

LUAU. 

Take the young, tender leaves of the taro plant, and strip 
stems as with beans. Boil, changing water 3 times and add- 
ing pinch of soda. Cook until tender, 45 minutes in all. After 
last water, little milk may added and salt and pepper. Mix 
well before serving. Cut hard boiled egg in slices and lay 
on top. 

LUAU AND CHICKEN. 

Boil 3 bundles of luau as above. Stew a chicken, and when 
done, pour off the gravy and mix chicken with the luau. Grate 
2 coconuts and pour over the chicken as a gravy. Squid and 
luau is made in the same way. 

LUAU SOUP. 

Cook luau as above, using 1 bundle. Boil 1 qt. milk. Add 
2 tbsp butter and luau which has been pressed through a 
sieve. Stir and season with salt and pepper. 

TARO FLOWERS. 

Take out pistils from flowers and strip strings from stems. 
Boil flowers and stems in water with pinch of soda, chang- 
ing water twice. Cook 45 minutes in all. Serve as a vege- 
table. These can be bought in small bundles at the market. 



68 

TARO LEAF STALKS. 

Take stalks of taro plant which come on taro above the 
tuber. Scrape them and slice. Place in cold water for % 
hour, then put into salted boiling water with pinch of soda, 
and cook until tender. Pour off water. Season with salt 
and pepper, and serve on buttered toast with little white 
sauce. 



69 



WATERMELON 

Though the watermelon lacks food nutriment, still it is con- 
sidered one of nature's purifiers. 

WATERMELON PRESERVED RIND. 

7 lbs. rind 2 lemons 

4 lbs. sugar 4 c water 

Prepare as for watermelon pickle. Cook until tender; then 
add sugar, and when thick, sliced and seeded lemons. Cook 
few minutes. 

WATERMELON PICKLE. 

To 12 lbs. rind use 7 pts. vinegar and 1 tsp alum to 1 qt. 
water. Pare off green part of rind of melon. Cut white 
part into strips and pour over boiling water in which alum 
has been dissolved. Leave over night. Drain and soak sev- 
eral hours in fresh water. Cook until tender ; then make syrup 
of equal parts sugar and vinegar seasoned with 1 tsp cinnamon 
to % tsp cloves tied in a bag. Drop melon in, and cook until 
tender. Skim out, and place in jars. Boil syrup down, and 
pour over melon. 

WATERMELON SHERBET. 

Take all red pulp from melon. Add lemon juice, and sweeten 
to taste. Freeze. When partly frozen, add the whipped white 
of 1 egg to each qt. of sherbet and finish freezing. It may be 
served in melon skin. 



70 



COMBINED FRUIT 

Many combinations of fruit may be served, according to 
the season and what one has on hand. In combining fruit, 
cut all in small pieces and mix gently with a spoon. 

Or save all the juice in cutting. Place the firmer fruit 
at bottom of serving dish, then alternate layers, and on top 
pour the combined juices saved from cutting. It may be 
served in individual sherbet glasses. Ice before serving. 

FRUIT COMBINED— 1. 

Pile minced bananas on a cored slice of slightly divided 
pineapple, and pour over them a tbsp sweetened orange juice. 

FRUIT COMBINED— 2. 

Combine % pineapple chopped fine, 6 sliced bananas, 6 sliced 
oranges, 1 pt. strawberries, 1 lemon thinly sliced, and sugar to 
taste. 

Or combine the pineapple, bananas, and oranges with -, 2 
grated coconut. 

FRUIT COMBINED— 3. 

Combine 1 banana, 1 orange. ^ c pineapple. 1 2 c walnuts, 
12 chopped marshmallows. Just before serving beat the mix- 
ture through 1 c whipped, sweetened, and iced cream. Serve 
at once in sherbet glasses. 

TROPICAL PUDDING. 

% c pearl tapioca 1 orange sliced 

1% e sugar 1 banana sliced 

1 4 tsp salt 2 slices pineapple cubed 

Soak the tapioca over night. In morning add to it 1 pt. 
boiling water, and boil in double boiler until clear. Cool sliglij- 
ly. add all the fruit, mix together, and place on the ice. Serve 
with cream. 

FRUIT MARMALADE . 

Take 4 parts papaya pulp. 1 part pineapple. 1 part orange 



71 

juice and skins sliced fine. Cook all together until soft, then 
add equal measure or more of sugar. For a solid marmalade, 
more sugar is required. 

FRUIT CREAM. 

Mash 4 bananas. Add 2 oranges, pulp and juice, and 1 tbsp 
lemon juice, and mix with | c powdered sugar. Soak *4 
box gelatine in y± c cold water 5 minutes and dissolve over 
boiling Avater. Add this to the fruit mixture and cool in ice 
water. When it thickens, fold in 2 c whipped cream. Place 
on ice and serve cold. 

FRUIT JELLY. 

Slice 1 orange, 2 bananas, and 4 figs. Seed 6 dates and % 
c grapes, and chop 16 almonds. Soak y 2 box gelatine in y* c 
cold water 5 minutes. Make a syrup of l 1 /-* c boiling water 
and 2 c sugar, and dissolve the gelatine in it. Strain and 
place in ice water. When it thickens, stir in the fruit. Place 
on ice, and serve with whipped cream. 

FRUIT SALAD— 1. 

Take fresh pineapple, papaya, and celery. Cut in small 
pieces, and add seeded grapes. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD— 2. 

Fill half a pomelo skin with minced bananas, pomelo, apples, 
and a very little pineapple. Put sliced or chopped walnuts on 
top, and cover with mayonnaise. 

FRUIT SALAD— 3. 

Slice 2 bananas, 2 apples, 1 small pineapple, and 1 papaya. 
Mix the fruits and serve on lettuce leaves. Cover fruit with 
whipped cream. 

FRUIT PUNCH— 1. 

Take juice of 3 lemons, 2 oranges, and 1 pomelo. Add 
1 qt. water (part mineral water), and large slices of pineapple. 
Sweeten and serve iced. 



72 

FRUIT PUNCH— 2. 

1 c grenadine 1 c orange juice 

i/2 c lemon juice 1 c pineapple juice 

1 c strong tea 1 bottle maraschino cherries 

Sugar or sugar syrup. 

Combine all, sweeten to taste, and add mineral water, if 
desired. 

FRUIT PUNCH— 3. 

6 oranges 1 pineapple 

6 lemons sugar 

1 papaya ginger ale 

Cube pineapple and papaya. Add juices of oranges and 
lemons. Sweeten to taste and add 5 or G bottles of ginger 
ale when ready to serve. 



73 

POI LUNCHEON COOKED OVER 
ORDINARY FIRE 

Table Arrangement. 

Cover the table cloth with ferns. At each place 
put a bowl of poi, salt dish, or shell containing kukui 
nut, or mamona, a small side plate with native salt, few cooked 
shrimps, native onions, radishes, and chili peppers. 

One can buy the cooked kukui nuts, or mamona at tho 
market. Crack the shells open and take out the kernel. Pound 
this with Hawaiian salt in a wooden dish, or mortar. The 
Kauai red salt can be bought at the market by asking for paa 
Tcai ulaula o Kauai. 
First Course. 

Salmon lomilomi. A salmon belly, 5 cents tomatoes, 5 
cents onions. Soak salmon over night, pick to pieces, remov- 
ing white membrances. Slice onions and tomatoes, remove 
skins, add 3 or 4 whole chili peppers, mix all thoroughly and 
place on ice. Serve in large glass dish with lump ol* ice. 

Second Course. 

Mullet, or humu, small ones for individual service if 
possible. Clean fish, sprinkle with coarse salt, tie up in ti leaves, 
and broil. 
Third Course. 

Chicken, luau, sweet potatoes. Old fowl may be 
used. Cut chicken in pieces, scald luau in three waters, 
and scrub potatoes well. Take agate bowl that will fit your 
steamer, and line with banana leaves. Pack tight into it the 
chicken, scalded luau, and fill up any vacancies with sweet 
potatoes. Scatter in coarse salt, cover all with ti leaves, about 
four thicknesses of banana leaves, folded cloth, and then cover 
of the steamer. Weight this down with stones or wood, so 
that it will be impossible for any steam to escape, and do not 
open until ready to serve. Cook 5% to 6 hours. A tireless 
cooker can be used for this. 
Fourth Course. 

This may be an Hawaiian pudding, such as papaiee (page 
17), Tcoele palau, or haupai (page 21). Or serve ice cream, 
cake, and coffee after the guests have left the table. 



PEG # 



