
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



BASIC 



PRINCIPLES 

of 

'DOMESTIC 
SCIENCE. 



4i^y 



COxNSISTiNG OF A 
COURSE OF SEVENTY- 
TWO ILLUSTRATED 
LESSONS :::::": 



BY 

LILLA FRICH,A.B. 

Supervisor Domestic Science 
Minneapolis Public Schools. 



Copyright, 1908 

Copyright, Revised Edition, 1912 

by 

Lilla Frich 



MuNciE Normal, Institute 

PUBLISHERS 
MUNCIE, INDIANA 





m^i"'' * . ^- 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



CONTENT 



First Semester. 



Lessons A. Theory. 

1. Uniform, Directions for 

2. Danger of Dust and Dirt. Rules for 

Its Removal. 

3. Washing of Dishes. 

4. Study of Water. Its Uses. 

5. Water as a Sterilizing Medium. 

6. Water as a Cleaning Agent: Ex., 

Care of Refrigerator. 

7. Water as a Cleaning Agent — Cont. 

Care of Utensils. 

8. Water as a Means of Carrying Away 

Waste Matter : Plumbing. 

9. Study of Air in Its Relation to Life. 

10. Study of Air in Its Relation to Fire. 

11. Study af Air in Its Relation to Fire — 

Cont. Stoves. ^ 

12. How to Build a Fire. 

13. Air in Its Relation to Cookery. 

14. Air in Its Relation to Cookery. 

1 5. Food in Its Relation to the Body. 

16. Classification of Food. 

1 7. Laying the Table. 

18. Laying the Dinner and Luncheon Table. 



Lessons B. Practice. 

1. Sanitary Housekeeping. Rules. 

2. Dusting and Sweeping of Kitchen and 

Its Furnishings. 

3. Rules for Measuring. 

4. Water as a Cooking Medium: Ex., 

Boiling of Vegetables. 

5. Ex., Canning of Vegetables. 

6. Preparation of Foods Containing a 

Large Percentage of Water: Ex., 
Vegetables. 

7. Uses for Stale Bread. Milk Toast. 

8. Uses for Stale Bread — Continued. Hot 

Meat Sandwich. 

9. Uses for Stale Bread — Continued. Ger- 

man Toast. 

10. Plain Soups. 

11. Cream Soups. 

12. Scalloped Dishes — Baking. 

13. Omelettes, Popovers, Cream Puffs, etc. 

14. Fruit Whips. 

15. Tapioca Pudding. 

16. Salads. 

17. Breakfast Table. 

18. Luncheon Menus. 



Second Semester. 



19. Study of Carbohydrates. Heat and 

-Energy Producers. 

20. Carbohydrates, Study of — Cereals. 

21. Carbohydrates, Study of — Rice 

22. Carbohydrates, Study of — Sugar. 

23. Carbohydrates, Study of — ^Wh^at 

24. Flour Mixtures 

25. Study of Baking Powder and Its , 

Action. % 

26. Study of Corn 

27. Approximate Measure of 1 pound. 
Time Table for Baking Batters and 

Doughs. 

28. Rules for Cake Making. 
rofrpa..»tiv9 Cost of F.-.'^\ Tngredi- 

T^nt«J Us^d i-n Batter- ar-' Doughs. 
..''v of \'a«i <i'/l Up Action. 



19. Rules for Cooking Pota,toes. 

20. Rules for Cooking Cereals. • 

21. Rules for Cooking Rice. 

22. Rules for Making Candy. 

23. Rules for Preparing Macaroni. 

24. Rules for Making Griddle Cakes, Pour 

Batter. 

25. Muffins, Drop Batter, 

4 

26. Corn Cake, Drop Batter. 

27. Gingerbread, Drop Batter. 



28. Cakes, Drop Batter. 
?0. Br.king Powder Biscuit Mixtures — 
SJof t Dough. 
' Short-Cake Mixtures. 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lessons A. Theory. 



31. 



General Directions for Making Bread 
That Requires No Kneading. 

32. Study of Sandwiches. 

33. Test Questions. 



Lessons B. Practice. 

31. Bread-Making. 



32. 
33. 



Sandwiches. 
Practice Test. 



Simple Breakfast. 



34. Acid and Salt Supplying Foods. 

35. Protoids, Tissue Builders, Study of — 

Eggs. 

36. Proteids, Tissue Builders, Study of — 

Eggs — Continued. 

37. Proteids, Tissue Builders, Study of — 

Milk. 

38. Proteids, Tissue Builders, Study of — 

Cheese. 

39. Freezing — General Directions. 

40. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Meat. 

41. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Methods of 

Cooking Meat. 

42. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Methods of 

Cooking Meat. 
43; Drawing of Beef Creature. 

44. Beef. 

45. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Poultry. 

46. Frying — General Directions. 

47. Table Showing Composition of Meat. 

Time Table for Boiling Meat an(f 
Fish. 

48. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Fish. 

49. Table 1. Composition of Fish, Mol- 

lusks. Crustaceans, etc. 

50. Table 1. Composition of Fish, Mol- 

lusks, etc. — Continued. 

51. Study of Shell Fish. 

52. Proteid Spare^-s — Gelatine. A Proteid 

Sparer. 

53. Blank Page. 

54. Test Questions. 



Third Semester. 

34. Canned Fruits. 

35. Cooked Eggs. 



36. Baked Custards. 

37. Pasteurized Milk. * 

38. Cheese Dishes. 

39. Frozen Milk and Cream Mixtures, Ice 

Cream. 

40. Meat Loaf Mixtures. 

41. General Directions for Stewing. 

42. Broiling. 

43. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Methods of 

Cooking Meat. 

44. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Methods of 

Cooking Meat — Roasting. 

45. Roast Chicken. 

46. Frying-rCroquettes. 

47. Meat Sauces — General Directions. 



48. Different Ways of Preparing Fish. 

49. Fish Sauces. 

50. Different Ways of Preparing Fish. 

Fish Balls — Salmon Loaf. 

51. Oysters. 

52. Gelatine Desserts. 

53. Gelatine Desserts — Continued. 

54. Practice Test — Simple Dinner. 



Fourth Semester. 



55. Heat Producers — Fats and Oils. 

56. Digestion. 

57. Steaming — General Directions. 

58. Bread and Break-Making 

59. Yeast and Its Action. 

60. Cake Fillings and Frostings. 

61. Average Composition of American 

Food Products. 

62. Average Composition of American 

Food Products. 

63. Pastry — General Directions. 



55. Bacon — Pan Broiled. 

56. Fat as a Frying Medium — ^Veal Cutlets. 

57. Steamed Mixtures. 

58. Rolls. 

59. Bread-Making. 

60. Layer Cakes. 

61. Cakes Without Butter — Sponge Cake- 

Angel Food. 

62. Cookies — Dropped and Rolled Cookies. 

63. Pie. 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lessons A. Theory. 



64. 



65. 

67. 
68. 

69. 
70. 

71. 

72. 



Average Composition of American 
Food Products — Comparative Cost of 
Total Nutrients and Energy in 
Fruits. 

Jelly-Making. 

Acid and Salt Supplying Foods. * 

Study of Beverages. 

General Rules Applied to Invalid 
Cookery. 

Dietary Studies. 

Average Composition of American 
Food Products. 

Test Questions. 

Menus — Continued. 



Lessons B. Practice. 

64. Frozen Fruit Juice Mixtures. 



65. Cranberry Sauce and Cranberry Jelly. 

66. Salads. 

67. Beverages. 

68. Invalid Cookery — Liquids — Semi- solids 

69. Menu IX. Menu X. 

70. Menu XI. 

71. Company Luncheon Menus. 
72; Menus— Continued. 



\ 








.^•^ 



'^^ 



FOREWORD 



The aim of this book is to present the basic prin- 
ciples of Domestic Science in a course of related 
lessons. 

Each lesson includes a page presenting the 
theory and a page outlining the practice, illustrat- 
ing the principle involved. In other words, the les- 
sons in theory give the "what" and the "why" ; the 
lessons in practice the "how." 

The course consists of seventy-two illustrated 
lessons, some of which are divided into two or three 
parts to be given as a separate lesson. 

The individual recipes, planned specifically for 
school use, may be used to advantage wherever an 
individual portion may be desired, or for Invalid 
Cookery. 



[Page 8] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



UNIFORM 



[Lesson lA] 




Each girl should be provided with a simple uniform for this work, as shown in accom- j 
panying illustration. The uniform consists of a cap, apron and sleevelets. A holder, hand- 

i 

towel and a bag in which to carry the uniform back and forth to school is also needed. 



This uniform may be made of India lawn, cambric or muslin. It requires about 4% 
yards of material for a medium sized girl and 5 yards for a larger girl. The cap should be 
' made to fit the head closely, that all stray hairs may be drawn under the cap. The apron 
should be made as long as the dress with a bib (see illustration). The sleevelets should come 
up above the elbow. A rubber band may be placed here and at the wrist, or, it may be 
finished with a band at the wrist. 



fLesson IB] SANITARY HOUSEKEEEING IPage 9] 



THE CLEAN HOUSE IS THE HEALTHFUL HOUSE 

We all know that a person does not appear well with soiled hands and face or soiled 
clothing, but appearance is not the only reason lor keeping clean, as there are a great many 
kinds of dirt which cause serious sickness and even death. Most of the cases of sickness in 
our country today are caused by tiny living organisms which are called GERMS 0^ 
MICROBES, or micro-organisms. They may be classed as bacteria, yeasts and molds- 

These GERMS are so small that they cannot be seen with the naked eye, yet they are 
always floating about in the air, in the water, in our food, on our clothing and on the bodies 
of both men and animals. Many of these live even in our mouths and under our nails. 

As GERMS grow rapidly in unclean places, it is necessary to keep ourselves and our 
surroundings perfectly clean in order to destroy them. Anything which destroys these tiny 
living organisms is called a disinfectant Men have prepared many means of destroying 
harmful GERMS, but fresh air, sunlight and cleanliness, called Natural Disinfectants, are 
the most valuable of all. 

As we go on with these lessons we will learn more about GERMS. Perhaps you have 
already learned something about them in your Physiology lessons. 



NECESSITY FOR CLEANLINESS 

One of the most important things for us to learn in this work is that we must be 
clean. 

There are two reasons why we should keep everything neat and clean: One, on account 
of looks, and the other on account of health. 



CLEANLINESS OF PERSON 

Since it is so necessary to keep clean at all times, those who are to work in the kitchen 
preparing foods should be especially careful to keep themselves clean, and to handle in a 
perfectly clean way all the food which they prepare. 

It is best to wear a plain, cotton dress, short enough to clear the floor, when cooking or 
doing other housework. The hair should be so carefully arranged that there is no danger of 
any falling into the food. When sweeping, it should be protected from the dust by covering 
it with a cap or kerchief. 

Before preparing any food, the hands should be washed thoroughly with soap and water; 
the nails cleaned with a brush and a wooden toothpick, or a regular nail cleaner. The hands 
should always be washed after touching the hair, pocket handkerchief or anything else 
unclean. No rings, bracelets, etc., should be worn in the kitchen. 

f 

It is a good plan to have a hand towel buttoned on the apron band while at work in the 
kitchen. The dishes must never be wiped on the same towel which is being used to wipe 
the hands or face. A tasting spoon should be near at hand, so that a small portion of the 
food may be put into it from the mixing spoon for tasting purposes. Never dip a tasting 
spoon into a dish of food which is to be served. 



[Page 10] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 2A] 

SANITARY HOUSEKEEPmO 
CLEANLINESS OF ROOM 

t 

SWEEPING 

Object. The object of sweeping is the removal of loose dirt, raising as little dust as 
possible. 

Dirt is anything unclean. Example: Visible Dirt, (dust, grease, etc.). 

As commonly used, the word includes remnants of anything left where they do not belong, 
such as sand, bits of paper, animal or vegetable refuse, etc. 

Mingled with the dust and dirt is the Invisible live dust that is composed of millions 
of germs, — called bacteria, yeasts, moulds, etc., — some of them known to cause diseases, such 
as diphtheria, lock-jaw, consumption, typhoid, grippe, etc. 

Implements for sweeping. A long handled soft brush is best for smooth floors, ex. — oiled 
or waxed floors. The brush or broom covered with a bag made of soft cloth, like Canton 
flannel or cheese cloth, may be used for painted or polished floors. If the cloth is dampened 
or oiled it will hold the dust better. A common broom may be used for sweeping ordinary 
floors. A small brush should be used to clean out the comers. A woolen cloth wrung out of 
warm water, to which 1 tbsp. ammonia to 1 gallon of water has been added will remove dust 
from carpets and brighten thrm wonderfully. A carpet sweeper which is a brush with broom 
action enclosed in a box, io good for carpets. The box serves as a dust pan. It is a sanitary 
dirt remover. 

Method. Begin at one corner and sweep along the sides of the room with the grain of 
the wood. Sweep with short strokes, keeping the broom close to the floor. Always sweep 
from the sides of the room toward the center, unless there is some good reason for doing 
otherwise. 

Collecting. By collecting dust into small piles rather than into one large one less dust 
will rise. If the dust pan is covered with a damp paper, so arranged that it will stand a 
little higher at the back of the dust pan, less dust will rise, as damp surfaces catch dust. 

Disposal Burn the sweepings. 

Caution. Before beginning to sweep, see that no food is left uncovered in the room. 

Care of Sweeping Utensils. The broom should be changed during sweeping and used on 
alternate sideSj as well as on opposite corners. When not in use it should be hung up; the 
lint and threads or hairs cleaned off every time after using. 

Brooms should be washed in hot soapy water once a week to keep them soft and pliable, 
and to make them last longer. 

DO NOT WET the tacks or wires on the broom as they will rust and break. 

BRUSHES MAY BE WASHED also. Use cold water instead of hot water, on account of 
the glue with which bmshes are fastened. 

Much labor can be saved by habits of neatness. 



Lesson 2B] DUSTING [Page 11] 



DUSTING 

Object The object of dusting is the removal of dust from the house. Dusting should not 
be done immediately after sweeping — about 2 hours should elapse. 

What to Use. USE A SOFT COTTON CLOTH. If new cloth is used it should be 
hemmed or overcast, as it ravels easily and the ravelings might catch and break small articles. 
Old cloth does not ravel so easily. Cheese cloth makes good dusters. It is inexpensive and 
dries quickly. Make dusters about % yds. square, — for many purposes smaller ones are bet- 
ter. Have several dusters. Do not use a feather duster, as it only scatters the dust. 

Order. 1. Wood- work. 2. Furniture. 3. Movable articles. 
Dust the higher places first, then the lower ones. 

Method. SPREAD THE CLOTH and gather the dust into it, folding it in as you work. 
Where there are no articles to be injured by moisture, the cloth should be dampened or oiled, 
as it will hold the dust plants. 

Care of Dust Cloths. Dust cloths should be washed thoroly each time after using. Wash 
the cloths in warm soapy water, scald in clean soapy water, rinse in clear water. Wring as 
dry as possible and hang them to dry with the ends pulled evenly. Dry out of doors in the 
sun if possible. Why? Why scald? When dry, fold and put them in the drawer where they 
belong. Have a place for everything and everything in its place. 

Care of Dish Cloths and Towels. — ^Dish cloths and towels should be washed, rinsed and 
dried each time after using; scalded often and dried out of doors when possible. A damp dish 
cloth breeds disease. 

Badly Soiled Cloths^ Towels, etc., should be soaked to cleanse them thoroly. Wet the 
soiled portions, rub them with soap, roll up tightly, place in a pail or pan, cover with soapy 
water, and let stand one hour or more. Wash in this water, then scald in clean soapy wetter, 
and rinse in clear water. Wash and hang up the cloths with the ends pulled evenly together. 
Try soaking soiled cloths in cold water to which the juice of a lemon has been added. Heat 
slowly to boiling point. Proceed according to above directions. 

NOTES: 



[Page 12] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 3AJ 

WASHING DISHES. OARE OF DISHES 

Directions for Dish Washing. I 

Preparation. 

1. Collect and scrape all dishes to be washed. 

2. Pile all articles of each kind together,— plates by themselves, the largest at the bottom ; 

silver articles together, and steel knives and forks by themselves, etc. 

3. Make ready two pans, — fill one half full of hot soapy water for washing, and the 

other half full with clear hot water for rinsing. 
NOTE. — ^Work is made much easier if saucepans and other cooking dishes are washed as 
soon as used. If soaking is necessary, fill with cold water as soon as emptied. 

Soaking Dishes. 

COLD water should be used for dishes which have been used for mil£:, eggs and starchy 

foods. 
HOT water should be used for dishes used for sugary substances, and for sticky, gummy 

substances, like gelatine. 
GREASY DISHES of all kinds, including knives, are more easily cleaned if first wiped < 

with soft paper. This paper may be used for kindling. 

Order. 

1. Glassware. 2. Silver. 3. Cups and saucers. 4. Plates. 5. Platters, vegetable dishes, 
6. Cooking utensils (if not washed first). < 

Method. I 

1. Wash dishes in hot soapy water. _ Cut glass is liable to crack in hot or cold water, so 
warm should be used. 2. Rinse in clear hot water. 3. Drain. 4. Wipe dry with 
clean tea towels. In putting dishes away, hang up what can be hung, and place 1 
other dishes upside down to keep out dust. 1 

General Instructions. i 

In putting glasses into hot water, they should be dipped in edgewise, so that both the ! 
outside and inside are heated together. This will prevent their cracking. ^ 

The handles of knives, if wood, bone, ivory, or pearl, should not be put into the water, as < 
they are liable to split. They should be wiped with a wet, and then with a dry clotli. 

A soft, thin dish cloth is better for glass and silver, but coarser, thicker material may be 
used for other dishes. Wash every part, outside and inside, of every dish, with the 
cloth. If* the dish is too small to allow the hand to go in, as in some pitchers, a 
mop may be used. ! 

NOTE. — Greasy dish cloths and towels furnish a most favorable soil for germ growth. 
A greasy dish cloth hung up in a dark place is dangerous. No damp article should be stored 
in the dark. Dish cloths and towels should be scalded and dried in the sun. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 3B] 



MEASURING 



[Page 13] 



Jorrect Measurements are absolutely necessary to insure successful results in cooking. 

FLOUR, MEAL, POWDERED and CONFECTIONERS* SUGAR and SODA should be 
sifted before measuring. MUSTARD and BAKING POWDER often settle in the cans, there- 
fore should be stirred to lighten. SALT lumps easily and the lumps should be broken before 
measuring. These should be put into the measure with a scoop or spoon and not packed hard. 
See Fig. 1. 

ALL MATERIALS ARE TO BE MEASURED LEVEL, the leveUng to be done with a 
case-knife. See Fig. 2. 

To measure BUTTER, LARD, etc., pack solidly into the cup or spoon, and make level 
with a knife. If the fat is very hard, cut it into small pieces before measuring. 

To measure a spoonful of any DRY SUBSTANCE, dip the spoon into the substance, fill it, 
lift it, and level it with a knife. 

For HALF a spoonful divide lengthwise. See Fig. 3. 

For a QUARTER of a spoonful divide the half crosswise. See Fig. 4. 

For an EIGHTH spoonful divide the quarter diagonally. See Fig. 5. 

Less than ONE-EIGHTH of a teaspoonful is considered a few grains. 

A CUPFUL of liquid is all the cup can hold. 

A TEA or TABLESPOONFUL of liquid is all the spoon can hold. 



ABBREVIATIONS. 

tsp teaspoonful 

tbsp tablespoonful 

c cupful 

pt pint 

qt quart 

oz ounce 

lb pound 

min minutes 

h hour 



EQUIVALENTS. 

3 tsp .equal 1 tbsp. 

♦4 tbsp equal % c. 

2 c equal 1 pt. 

2 pts equal 1 qt. 

4 qts equal 1 gallon 

4 c (about) of flour equal 1 lb. 

2 c of sugar equal 1 lb. 

♦16 tbsp. of dry ingredients equal 1 c. 
12 tbsp. of liquid '* equal 1 c. 






FIGURE 1. 



FIGURE 2. 



FIGURE 5. 



Next to measuring comes CARE IN COMBINING. 

THREE WAYS are considered:— Stirring, Beating, Cutting and Folding. 

To Stir. — ^Mix by using circular motion; widening the circles until all is mixed. 

To Beat. — ^Tum ingredients over and over, continually bringing the under part to the 
surface. 

To Cut and Fold. — Combine one ingredient with another ingredient or mixture by two 
motions with a spoon, a repeated vertical downward motion, known as CUTTING, and a turn- 
ing over and over of mixture, allowing bowl of spoon each time to come in contact with bot- 
tom of dish, called FOLDING. 

BY STIRRING, ingredients are mixed. 

BY BEATING, a large amount of air is enclosed. 

BY CUTTING AND FOLDING, air already introduced is preven*ted from escaping. 



[Page 14] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Leason 4A;| 



WATER 

DEFINITION. — ^Water is an odorless, colorless, tasteless, transparent liquid. 

COMPOSITION. — Pure water is composed of two parts hydrogen, and one part oxygen. — ^H, O. 

SOURCES.— (1) Lake. (2) Rain. (3) Spring. (4) WeU. (5) River. 

USE. — Water is necessary to life and health. It constitutes about three-fourths of the weight 
of the human body. 

USES IN THE BODY.— (1) To quench thirst. (2) To regulate temperature. (3) To aid 
digestion." (4) To thin blood. (5) To assist circulation.* (6) To stimulate nervous sys- 
tem. (7) For medicinal purposes. (8) To help carry off waste matter. 

USES WITHOUT THE BODY.— (1) For cooking purposes. (2) For cleaning purposes. 

TEMPERATURES.— Boiling, 212 deg. F. Simmering, 185 deg. F. Hot, 100 deg. F. plus 
Warm, 92 deg.-lOO deg. F. Tepid, 65 deg.-92 deg. F. Cold, 32 deg.-65 deg. F. Freez- 
ing, 32 deg. F. 

IMPURE WATER IS DANGEROUS, and like dust contains germs. 

BOILING THE WATER ten minutes will kill the germs. The. water is then sterilized. To 
sterilize means to free from germs. To restore the flav^o/V)iled water re-introduce 
air by pouring the water several times from one pitcher to another. Freezing does not 
kill the germs, — only checks the growth. j 

WATER STANDING in lead pipes over night, or any length of time, may take up some of ^ 
the lead and therefore it should be drawn off before any water is taken for use. 

NEVER USE the water drawn off the hot water faucet for cooking or drinking purposes. 

HOT WATER is more likely to take up the particles of lead than cold water. 

THE BODY needs about two quarts of cold water daily, and about half of that is supplied in 
the food. 

ALL FOOD SUBSTANCES contain more or less water, no matter how dry they may appear. ^ 

MANY FRUITS AND VEGETABLES contain a large amount of water, with just enough solid 
matter to give them form. Today we are going to use water as a cooking medium. | 

NOTE. — Heat expands, cold contracts water; exception: water expands just before freezing, j 

NOTES: i 



[Lesson 4B] 



VEGETABLES 



[Page 15] 



.— ..,- -r«^<-^, .' '^-•^ 




Boiled Cauliflower and Carrots 
VEGETABLES 

VEGETABLES are chiefly valuable for the pure water and mineral matter they con- 
tain, which act as a tonic to the system. 

They also contain cellulose or wood-fibre, which stimulates the digestive organs to carry 
on their work. The amount of cellulose or waste in vegetable foods keeps up the motion of 
the intestines. The cellulose is useful in stimulating the intestines so that their contents are 
kept constantly moving. Some vegetables contain starch, sugar and other substances. Peas, 
beans, and lentils, are tissue builders and may be used in place of meat, eggs, etc. Lettuce 
and celery have a juice that is soothing to the nerves. Celery if taken in large enough quan- 
tities is considered a cure for rheumatism. Spinach contains iron, etc. Therefore it is well 
to eat many different kinds of vegetables in order to supply the body with the different kinds 
of mineral matter and acids they contain. 

General Rules for Cooking Vegetables. 

(1) Wash thoroly. (2) Pare, peel or scrape, if skins must be removed. (3) Soak in cold 
water until ready to cook — (to keep crisp or to freshen if wilted or to prevent discoloration). 
(4) Cook in freshly boiling, salted water until tender. (5) Drain off the water; shake over 
fire ; serve hot with SEASONINGS.— To 1 c. cooked vegetables, add 2 tbsp. butter, i^ tsp. salt, 
and 1-16 tsp. pepper, or with a White Sauce. — See Lesson 7. Vegetables may be reheated 
over hot water in a double boiler. 

Notes. 

Allow 1 tsp. salt to 1 qt. water. 

Use enough boiling water to cover vegetables. 

Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, except in the case of delicate green 
vegetables, as peas, spinach, etc., when it should not be added until the vegetables are nearly 
done. 

To preserve the color of green vegtables cook uncovered. 

Cabbage, onions and turnips should be cooked uncovered in a large quantity of water; by 
changing the water once or twice during the cooking, muoh of the strong odor and flavor may 
be lost. If dried bread be tied in a cheese cloth and placed on top of vegetables it partially 
absorbs the odor. 

Water in which vegetables have been cooked is called Veg, Stock, and may be used as a 
basis for soups, sauces, etc. 

Peel onions uiider cold water to avoid irritating the eyes. Wash all the utensils in cold 
water without soap to remove onion odor. 

Winter vegetables should be kept in a cool, dark, dry place. 

Fresh vegetables may be washed and kept on ice in a clean piece of cheesecloth. Be 
sure that the cloth is washed and scalded frequently. 

Time Table for Cooking Vegetables in Water. 



Potatoes 25-30 m. 

Carrots 35-45 m. 

Turnips 45 m. 

Beets (young) 45 m. 

Beets (old) 3-4 hrs. 

Tomatoes 1-3 hrs. 



Onions 46-60 m. 

Cabbage 45-60 m. 

Cauliflower 20-30 m. 

Asparagus 20-40 m. 

Spinach 30-45 m. 

Cfelery 20-30 m. 



Parsnips 30-45 m. 

Green Peas 30-45 m. 

String Beans 1-3 hrs. 

Lima Beans . . 1 hr. or more 

Green Com 12-?0 m. 

Rice , 20-45 m. 



[Page 16] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCTENCE [Lesson 5AJ 

WATER AS A STERILIZING UEDITTM 
FOOD PRESERVATION 

To PRESERVE means to save from decay by the use of some preservative agent. 

Certain Bacteria cause the decay of foods. 

Food is preserved when it is subjected to such treatment as will kill the germs or check 
their growth and make them inactive. 

As we know that moderate heat, food and moisture are favorable conditions for their 
growth, opposite conditions will hinder their growth, — that is, to keep food cold, — dry it,— or 
cook it. 

The methods usually used are: — 

1. Cold Storage. — Freezing checks the growth of bacteria as long as they are in a 
frozen condition. MEAT and FISH may be kept indefinitely while frozen. They should not 
be allowed to thaw out until shortly before using, as they are more susceptible to the action 
of bacteria, and spoil more quickly than similar foods which have not been frozen. EGGS 
and FRUIT may be kept several months by cold storage, in dry air just above the freezing 
point. VEGETABLES are kept in cold storage. MILK is sent frozen in large quantities, etc. 

2. Drying. — Bacteria require moisture, so food is dried in order to prevent their growth. 
Dried fruits contain more water than dried meats or fish, but this small amount remains safe 
by the antiseptic properties of the acids in the fruits, and are also preserved by the natural 
sugar in fruits. 

3. Salting. — Salt has a tendency to absorb moisture from the bacteria, so they cannot 
thrive in food that is corned or salted. Salt does not kill bacteria but prevents their 
growth. 

4. Preserving with Sugar. — Sugar, like salt, has a tendency to absorb moisture from the 
bacteria, therefore they cannot grow in a thick syrup, though molds may grow on top. — 
Example: jams, marmalades, jellies, etc. 

5. Smoking. — Meats and fish are usually salted, then smoked, (the products of combus- 
tion are antiseptic). These antiseptics are germ killers, but do not penetrate the fiesh, 
remaining on the outside, so disease germs on the inside are not killed. It is therefore 
unsafe to eat uncooked meat in any form. 

6. Pickling. — Few kinds of bacteria can grow in acids, so vinegar is used for pickling. 

7. Chemical Treatment. — ^Many of the antiseptics used on food, called "preservatives," 
are harmful. These are often used in canning factories, and by dealers in milk, meat, and 
other foods. 

8. Canning. — Canning is preserving sterilized food in sterilized, air-tight jars. The 
temperature of boiling water, sometimes a lower temperature, kills the bacteria. Canning is 
considered the best method of preserving food. 

NOTES: 



Lesson 5B] CANNING [Page 171 

CANNED VEGETABLES 




DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING VEGETABLES. 
Canning should be done in a well-kept room — one as free as possible from dust and dirt. 
Select only sound and fresh vegetables. 

Examine jars by filling them half full with water, adjust rubbers, screw on tops, turn 
upside down and see if they are air-tight. 

How to sterilize jars, etc. Sterilize the jars and covers by putting them edgewise into 
a pan containing cold water. Heat slowly to boiling point and let boil ten minutes. Keep 
the jars and covers in the hot water till ready for use. 

Dip rubber bands into hot water, but do not injure them by boiling. New rubbers should 
oe used each season. 

Prepare the vegetables. Wash, pare or peel, and cut in pieces, if necessary. 

Fill the jars with the vegetables, cover to overflowing with water that has been boiled, 
salted and cooled. 

Place the sterilized rubbers on and adjust covers, but do not screw them down — the 
steam must have an outlet. 

Place the jars on a rest, or on a folded cloth, or on several layers of paper in a large 
kettly or wash boiler. Add enough cold water to reach the- neck of jars. Cover the kettle; 
heat gradually to boiling point, and boil according to time-table. • 

Take jars out, screw down the covers securely. Place jars upside down. 

NOTE. — If full jars are desired, immediately after steaming the covers may be taken off 
and the jars filled to overflowing with boiling salted water. Then readjust covers and screw 
down securely. 

TIME TABLE. 

KIND METHOD TIME 

TOMATOES Sterilization or Canning One hour 

STRING BEANS " " Three hours 

PEAS " ' " Three to four hours 

CORN « " Four to flve hours 

ASPARAGUS " " Three hours May be 

boiled flve minutes before putting in cans. 



[Page 18] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE [Lesson 6A]I 

WATER AS A CLEANING AGENT 

Water is the most important of all cleaning agents. It dissolves more substances than! 
any other liquid. j 

Water for domestic use is either hard or soft, according to the amounts of soluble saltsl 
which it contains. These are usually compounds of lime or magnesia. Water not naturally! 
soft should be softened by boiling or the addition of a softening agent, ex. — washing sodaj 
borax„ammonia> potash or soda lye. 

If washing soda is used do not add more than 2 ounces to a tub of water. 

Too much should not be used, as it injures the hands and any fabric which may bf 
washed in it. 

If borax is used, not more than ^ pound to a tub of water should be used. 

Ammonia is considered one of the best agents for softening water. 

CARE OF REFRIGERATOR, ETC. 

The Refrigerator should be kept scrupulously clean in every part 

Anything spilled should be wiped up at once. The refrigerator should be examined 
daily so that no food is left to spoil and cause bad odors. All waste and overflow pipes 
become foul with grease, dust, lint, etc., if not well cared for, and often fill the whole house i 
with contaminated air, thereby endangering health. . I 

Vo hot food should be put into the refrigerator. 

No food with strong odor should b6 put into the refrigerator, unless necessary, and then 
it should be tightly covered. j 

Milk and butter absorb odors quickly, and therefore should be kept tightly covered. , 

Once a week, at least, every part of the refrigerator should be washed with borax, soda, 
or ammonia water, using a small mop or whisk broom and a skewer. 

To clean the pipe thoroly, use a cloth over a wire. Wipe as dry as possible, and leave i 
refrigerafor open to dry thoroly. 

If possible, dry all movable parts in the sun or near the fire. I 

Care of the Sink. — The SINK should be kept scrupulously clean at all times. 

Neglect causes bad odors, attracts roaches, etc., and often causes disease. 

It is advisable to have a fine strainer over the regular sink strainer to catch crumbs or 
anything that might clog the pipe. After pouring soiled water into the pipe, pour clean 
water into it so that clean water may be left in the trap. Wash all parts of the sink with 
soapsuds or 1 tbsp. sal-soda added to the water (sal-soda prpepared by using y<t cupful of 
soda to % gallon of water), or % can of Babbit's potash dissolved in 1 qt. of water. Should 
sink pipe become clogged, pour into waste pipe ^ lb. copperas dissolved in 2 qts. boiling 
water. Repeat if necessary. 

Scrubbing Boards and Tables. — ^Remove all crumbs, etc., and wipe off the table with a 
wet cloth. Use no more water than necessary. Dip a brush into water, then into Dutch 
Cleanser, or rub sapolio on it. Scrub with the grain of the wood. Thoroly rinse off the 
suds. Kinse the cloth, wring it thoroly, and wipe the table or board as dry as possible. Let 
no dirt collect in seams or cracks; remove with a skewer. 

Grease spots may be removed by covering them with borax or ammonia, allowing it to 1 
stand a few hours before scrubbing with sand soap. 

not;ss: 



[Lesson 6B] 



DIFFERENT WAYS OF PREPARING VEGETABLES 



[Page 19] 



PEAS AND CARROTS. 

1 c. cubed carrots 2 level tbsp. butter 1-16 tsp. pepper 

1 c. cooked green peas % level tsp. salt 

Wash, scrape and cut young carrots in cubes. CJook in boiling nalted water until soft. 
Drain, add the peas and season with butter, salt and pepper. 

The carrots may be cut into carrot cups, by cutting thick slices and scooping out the 
inside before cooking. Serve the peas in the cups. 



SUCCOTASH. 

1 c. sweet com 1 or 2 tbsp. butter 

1 c. cooked shelled beans % tsp. salt. 

Mix com and beans. Heat. Season. Serve hot. 
One cup hot milk may be added. 



Vs tsp. pepper 




CORN OYSTERS. 

1 c. sweet com (drained) ^ c. flour or VsC. breadcrumbs 1-16 tsp. pepper 

1 well-beaten egg ^ t&p. salt, or more, to taste 

Mix in order given. Shape to imitate oysters. Cook on a well-greased griddle. Brown 
on one side; turn and brown on the other. This mixture may be baked. The yolk and 
white should then be beaten separately. Green pepper may be added to it. 

SPANISH FRITTERS. 

1 c. com % c. flour 2 eggs beaten separately 

\i c. milk % tsp. baking powder 1 Spanish pepper 

Mix in order given, folding in the beaten whites. Fry spoonfuls in deep fat. 



STUFFED TOMATOES. 



1-16 tsp. pepper 



6 medium-sized tomatoes 2 tbsp. melted butter 

1 c. cracker or soft bread crumbs I tsp. salt 

Wash tomatoes. Cut thin slice from stem end of each. Take out seeds and pulp and 
drain off most of the liquid. Mix the crumbs, butter and the seasonings; add to the tomato 
pulp. Add more seasonings if necessary. Sprinkle inside of tomato cup with salt and pepper. 
Refill the tomatoes with the mixture; replace tops. Place in a buttered pan, sprinkle with 
buttered crumbs and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Chopped meat, oysters, green peppers, sweet corn or celery may be added to the stufiing. 



[Page 20] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson TA] 

WATER AS A CLEAKING AGENT— Continued 
CAKE 0^ UTENSILS 

TINWARE. — Wash tinware in hot, soapy water. Remove grease and food waste from 
all seams with a wooden tooth pick or skewer vpr a stiff brush. If discolored, boil out in 
water containing washing soda. Polish with whiting or tripoli. 

IRONWARE. — ^Wash ironware in hot, soapy water. Use a wire dish cloth to remove 
food that sticks or is burnt on. Pumice stone or sapolio may be used in removing rough 
spots. After washing and wiping, dry thoroly by placing kettles on the back of the range 
or in the sun before putting away. Before using a new iron kettle grease inside and outside 
and let stand two days; then wash in hot water to which a lump of cooking soda has been 
added. 

Iron and Steel not in use should be rubbed with an oily substance — oil, lard or vaseline. 

Rust, if not too deep, can be removed from iron or steel with kerosene. 

BRASS and COPPER. — ^Wash in hot soapy water. Rub with flannel dipped in lemon 
juice or vinegar. Then apply rotten- stone and oil and polish with a dry cloth. Or apply 
putz pomade t^hich is a mixture of whiting, oil and acid) with a woolen cloth, rub off 
with a second woolen cloth and polish with a third one. 

AGATE and ENAMEL WARE.— Wash in hot soapy water. Clean seams with a wooden 
tooth pick or skewer^ Rough places may be removed with a piece of pumice stone — ordinary 
stains with sapolio or Dutch Cleanser. A small scrubbing brush may be used in cleaning 
enamel ware. 

STEEL KNIVES and FORKS.— Dampen a cork, a piece of woolen cloth or cotton waste 
and dip into pulverized sapolio, Bristol brick, tripoli, or Dutch Cleanser. . Rub the blades 
or tines briskly, first on one side, then on the other,^.until stains are ren;ioved. Dip quickly 
Into hot soapy water and dry at once. 

SILVERWARE. — ^Dampen a soft cloth, dip into fine whiting and apply to the silver. 
When the whiting has dried, rub it off with a soft cloth and polish with a chamois skin. Rub 
egg-stained spoons and other ba^y tarnished articles with salt before washing them in water 
to which ammonia has been added. The chlorine of the salt combines with the tarnish and 
forms a compound soluble in ammonia. 

STOVE or RANGE. — ^Wipe off with soft paper. Use sapolio to rub off rough spots. To 
keep it black and clean, wipe it daily with a few drops of kerosene on. a cloth. ^ 

ZINC. — Clean zinc with a little kerosene rubbed on with a flannel cloth, or with electro- 
silicon on a damp cloth. Polish with dry flannel. 

NOTES: 



.X • >• 



•* 



^^ 



[Lesson 7B] 



USES FOR STALE BREAD 



[Page 21] 



DRY TOAST. — Cut stale bread into ^-inch slices. Crust may or may not be taken off. 
Put slices in a wire toaster, lock toaster and place over a clear fire to dry, holding some d4|i- 
tance from coals. Turn and dry other side. Hold nearer and color to a golden bro^. 
Toast, if piled compactly and allowed to stand^ soon becomes moist. Toast may be butted 
at table or before sending to table. Toasted "bread is considered to be more easily dige|(ted 
than fresh bread, because in toasting some /qf' the starch is changed into dextrine (double 
sugar )i' Heat of 320 degrees F. is necessary^ to dextrinize starch. 

WATER TOAST.— Dip the toasted slices into boiling salted water {% tsp. salt to 1 c. 
boiling water), using a fork. Spread with butter and serve. 

MILK TOAST.— Dip the toasted slices into WHITE SAUCE. When soft remove to 
serving dish. Pour remaining sauce over all. For six slices of toast use one pint White Sauce. 
THIN WHITE SAUCE— 

1 pt. scalded milk 2% tbsp. cold water 2 tbsp. butter (if liked) 

2^ tbsp. flour ^ tsp. salt 

Mix the cold water and flour until perfectly smooth. Add more cold water until thin 
enough to pour gradually into the hot milk. Cook, stirring all the time, until thickened. 
Boil 5 minutes. Add butter and salt. If cooked in a double boiler, cook 20 minutes in order 
to thoroughly cook the starch. 




EGGS A€;A GOLDEN ROD. 
EGGS A LA GOLDEN ROD.— Prepare Hvi^k .toast, adding the chopped whites of three 
hard cooked eggs to the sauce. Force the Jiglks thru a strainer and sprinkle over the top. 
Garnish with parsley. 3^' ' 

CREAM TOAST. — ^Dip the toasted slices into hot cream. Put on serving dish and pour 
liot cream over the slices. f 





CROUSTADES. 

CROUSTADES OF BREAD.— Cut stale bread into four-i^ch slices. Cut in diamonds, 
squares or circles. Remove centers by cutting with a knife, leaving baskets or cases. Fry in 
deep fat or brush over with melted butter and brown in oven. Fill with creamed flsh, meat 
or vegetables. ^ 

All pieces of bread should be saved and used. Keep pie^s of stale bread by themselves 
in a jar or covered bowl. Large pieces are best for toaatl Dry remnants of bread in a warm 
oven until they are crisp but not brown. Crush them witi a rolling pin (kept for this 
purpose), sift and keep them in a jar. Thes^ d)fe called dry bread crumbs, and are useful 
for crumbing, croquettes, cutlets, fish, meat, and scalloped dishes. 

Stale bread crumbs not dried are suitable for puddings, griddle cakes, omelpts, and some 
scalloped dishes. 



(Page 22] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 8 A] 

WATER AS A MEANS OF CARBTINa AWAY WASTE MATTER 

WATER CARRIAGE SYSTEM— PLUMBINO 

In cities where there is a generous supply of water, waste water, refuse, etc., are carried 
through pipes by means of water into a sewer. This is called a water-carriage system of 
drainage. It requires fixtures. See illustration. 



SINK. 



Construction. — Enameled iron, porcelain or soapstone are the best materials for a sink. 
The drainboards should be of the same material. Wood is not desirable, as it is highly 
absorbent and hard to keep clean. The drainboards should slope toward the sink, and the 
sink should slope towards the waste pipe. 

Parts below the sink are: 



1. WASTE PIPE, 1^ to 2 inches in diameter. 

2. SOIL PIPE, 4 to 5 inches in diameter. 

3. DRAIN PIPE, 5 to 6 inches in diameter. 
4 SEWER PIPE. 



VP 



T 



^ 



w 



y 




The whole system of pipes is called the sewerage of the house; the contents are called 
the sewage, and the main big pipe that receives all the sewage is called the sewer. 

The pipes carry off decomposable matter, and the results of decomposition are gases. In 
this case they are called sewer gases. 

The waste pipe has a bend in it called a TRAP. This is filled with the last water poured 
into the sink. The object of the bend is to retain a sufficient quantity of clean water to 
prevent gases from escaping up from the drain into the house. 

The water the bend contains is called a WATER SEAL. The clean water in the bend 
acts as a seal, preventing gases from retiu'ning. 

Good plumbing requires that the trap be near the fixture, that as little space as possible 
be left unprotected. 

Always have clean water in the trap. Why? 

If the sink is left unusedi for any length of time, the water seal may evaporate, and 
allow gases to escape into the house. 

A house left vacant should be thoroly aired before it is re-occupied. 

Keep pipes free from grease, soapy deposits, etc., by using hot water and soda or potash 
generously and frequently 

Every Irap should have a clean- out under the water seal. 

Draw a diagram of a sink, properly connected with the sewer. 

Sanitary cleanliness requires the cleanliness of the individual, of his possessions and his 
surroundingsi 



Lesson 8B] USES FOR STALE BREAD [Page 23] 




HOT MEAT SANDWICHES. 

RECIPES FOR LEFT-OVERS OF MEAT. 

Hot Chicken Sandwich. 

%-inch slices toast. 

Cooked chicken (slices or small pieces). 

WHITE SAUCE or thickened chicken stock. 

Heat the slices of chicken in the sauce. 

Season. Celery salt and chopped parsley may be added if liked. 

Put the meat and sauce between the slices of toast. 

Garnish with parsley and olives. 

Hot Roast Beef Sandwich. 

Slices of toast. 

Slices of cooked roast beef. Brown sauce. 

Put the meat and sauce between the slices of toast. 

Left-overs of MUTTON may be used in the same way, with tomato sauce or mint saiioo. 

Club House Sandwich. 

1. Toast. 

2. Lettuce leaves. 

3. Salad dressing. 

4. Slices of roast chicken. 

5. Pan broiled bacon. 

Arrange on slices of toast the lettuce leaves, salad dressing, chicken and bacon in 

layers. 
Repeat and cover with toast, having three layers of toast in all. 
Garnish with pickles, radishes, or parsley. 

Cheese Canapes. 

Toast circular pieces of bread. 

Sprinkle with a thick layer of grated cheese. 

Season with salt and cayenne. 

Place on a baking sheet and bake in oven until cheese is melted. 

Serve at once. 

Tomato Sauce. 

2 c. canned tomatoes Bit of bay leaf l^ tsp. salt 

1 slice onion 4 cloves 2 tbsp flour 

6 pepper corns 
Boil first 6 ingredients 15 minutes; strain. 

Thicken by adding the flour which has been mixed with cold water to make a smooth 
thin paste. Cook 5 minutes. ' 



[Page 24] BASIC PRINCIPLES. OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 9A! 

AIB 

COMPOSITION. — Pure air is a mixture, composed of two gases — oxygen (one part) anc 
Nitrogen (four parts) N4O. 

Air in Its Relation to Life. 

THREE THINGS ARE ESSENTLAL TO LIFE— Air, Water aad Food. 

AIR is the most important, since we can live only a few minutes without it. 

The air we breathe carries oxygen into the lungs, keeping the blood red and pure. Th< 
blood conveys it to every part of the body, where it unites with the carbon, producing heai 
by slow burning. It also produces the energy which makes the muscles move and the organ! 
do their work. * 

The burnt air contains carbon dioxide and is exhaled. If you should sit in a very smal 
room that had no fresh air supply, how would you feel after the fresh air had beconu 
impure? Why? 

The air becomes impure in a room by the carbon dioxide given off from the lungs, fronJ 
lamps, from gas stoves, and in a small quantity from coal stoves (altho ^u this case most of 
the carbon dioxide passes into the chimney). ' 

Anything which uses up the oxygen in a room, or which allows too much breathed air 
to remain in the room, makes the air impure. 

Decaying vegetables and water that have been allowed to stand for a length of time in 
cellars may fill the room with impure air and cause disease. 

Habitual breathing of impure air is the cause in many cases of pneumonia and consump- 
tion. 

Public buildings are usually ventilated thru flues which let in the fresh out-of-door air 
and let out the impure air. 

What is meant by VENTILATION? Why is GOOD ventilation necessary? 

REMEMBER: To frequently fill your lungs with fresh out-of-door air. To supply your 
rooms night and day with fresh air. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 9B] 



USES FOR STALE BREAD 



[Page 25] 




GERMAN TOAST 

GERMAN TOAST. 

3 eggs % tap. salt 2 tbsp. sugar. 1 c. milk 8 slices stale bread 

Beat eggs slightly, add salt, sugar and milk. Strain into a shallow dish. Soak bread in 
mixture until soft. Cook on a hot well-greased griddle; brown on one side; turn and brown 
on the other side. Serve for breakfast or luncheon. May be served as a dessert with Lemon 
Sauce. Slices of bread may be put in layers in a buttered baking dish, covered with the egg 
mixture and baked in a moderate oven. This we call Bread Pudding. 

LEMON SAUCE 

^2 c. sugar IV^ c. boiling water 1^ tsp. lemon juice 

1 tbsp. com starch 1 tsp. butter 

Mix sugar and corn starch; add boiling water gradually, stirring until thickened. 
5 minutes.* Add butter and lemon juice. Serve. 



Boil 




PEACH CANAPES 

3 peaches 1 tbsp. corn starch diluted 6 slices German toast 

^2 c. sugar with ^4 c. cold water (circular pieces) 

1 c. water Rind of 1 lemon 

Peel and cut the peaches ih halves; cook them until tender in a syrup made of the 
sugar, water and lemon rind. Remove the peaches and thicken by cooking the syrup with 
the cornstarch mixed with the cold water. Serve the peaches on the toast, with the syrup. 

BAKED APPLES 

8 apples Vi tsp. cinnamon Rind of 1 lemon 

l^ c. sugar % tsp. nutmeg (if Uked) 

Wash, wipe and core apples. Place them in a baking dish. Mix the seasonings; fill 
the cavities. CJover the bottom of the dish with boiling water and bake in a hot oven until 
soft, basting with the syrup in the dish. Pears may be baked in the same way. 

BAKED BANANAS 

6 bananas 2 tbsp. butter Vs c. sugar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Remove the skins and cut in halves lengthwise. Put in a shallow granite pan or an old 

platter. Cream the butter and sugar and add lemon juice gradually. Spread bananas with 

half the mixture. Bake 20 minutes in a slow oven, basting during baking with the remaining 

mixture. 



[Page 26] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson lOA] 



AIK— Continued 

AIR IN ITS RELATION TO FIRE. 

Combustion or burning is the uniting of two or more elements to form a new compound. 
Combustion always produces heat, and if rapid, sometimes light. Flame is burning gas. 

In order to have a fire three things are necessary. 

1. Fuel, or something to burn. 

2. Heaty to make it hot enough to burn or reach its kindling point. 

3. Air, to keep it burning. The oxygen is the necessary part to keep the fire burning. 
Experiment with a lighted candle and a lamp chimney. 






Figure 1 



Figure 2 



Figure 3 



Fuel is any matter used to produce heat by burning, ex. — wood, coal, charcoal, etc. 

Fuels are composed mostly of carbons and hydrogen. When fuel is heated enough to 
bum, the oxygen of the air UNITES with the CARBON in the fuel forming a gas called 
CARBON DIOXIDE; it also unites with the hydrogen forming watery vapor; these pass 
through the chimney. After all the combustible matter is burned ashes remain. 

Fires are usually enclosed in iron boxes called Stoves, Ranges and Furnaces. 

These must have two openings, one to let in the air and one to let out the burnt air (gas 
watery vapor and smoke). The slides that control these openings are called dampers. 

All stoves have a third damper called the check damper. (See Lesson llA.) 

In cooking stoves there is a fourth damper which allows the hot gases to flow around 
the oven, before reaching the chimney. 



NOTES: 



•esson lOB] 



SOUPS 



[Page 27] 



SOUPS 



TOMATO SOUP 



1 slice onion 2 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt 2 tbsp. flour 

% tsp. soda 

Strain. Add salt and soda. Mix the flour with 
1 equal amount of water until smooth, add more water until thin enough to pour. Stir 
>up while adding gradually the flour mixture, called thickening, boil 5 minutes. Strain, add 
litter, serve with croutons. 



can tomato Bit of bay leaf 

pt. water 4 cloves 

' peppercorns 1 tsp. sugar 

Cook first seven ingredients 20 minutes. 




TOMATO SOUP WITH CURLED CELERY 

Croutons 
CROUTONS. — Cut l^ in. slices of buttered stale br^ad into cubes; brown in oven. 



VEGETABLE SOUP 



Vs c. carrot 
Va c. turnip 
% c. celery 



1% c. potato 
^ c. onion 
2 qts. water 



5 tbsp. butter, or a 

piece of suet 
^,tbsp. parsley 



1 tsp. salt 
Vs tsp. pepper 



Cut vegetables into cubes. Cook the vegetables, except the potatoes and parsley, 10 
minutes, in the butter or suet. Add water and potatoes and cook one hour. Add parsley 
and seasonings. A soup bone may be added. 



1% tsp. salt 



PEA SOUP 

1 c. dried split peas % onion 2 tbsp. flour 

3 qts. cold water 4 in. cube fat salt pork% tsp. pepper 

Pick over peas and soak over night; drain, add cold water, pork and onion. Simmer 3 
or 4 hours, or until soft. Rub through a sieve. Add the flour mixed with cold water to 
the soup; boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Add seasonings. 



3 c. cold baked beans 
3 pts. water 
2 slices lemon 



BAKED BEAN SOUP 

1^ c. stewed and strained 2 tbsp. flour 

tomatoes Itbsp. Chili sauce 

2 tbsp. butter Salt. Pepper 

Put first four ingredients in saucepan; bring to boiling point and simmer 30 minutes. 
Rub through a sieve, add seasonings, thicken with the flour, add butter, and serve with crisp 
crackers. 

Celery stalks, celery salt, or the dried leaves of celery may be added. 



J 



[Page 28] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 11 



STOVES 

Ovens are as individual as people, and stoves form habits of their own. 
A COOKING STOVE is a large iron box set on legs. 

A Cooking Stove has the following parts: • 

1. FIRE-BOX, to contain fuel. 

2. GRATE, which forms the floor of the fire-box^. 

3. DAMPERS, (ar Creative, i Tq reculate draft. 

(b) Check. \ *^ M'. 

(d) Chfrnney. } ^o direct current of hot air. J 

4. ASH-PAN, to receive ashes, cinders, and clinkers. ^ 

5. STOVE-PIPE, to carry off smoke (unKurned carbon) and gaseous products 

combustion. 

6. OVEN, FOR FOOD. 



i 

(1>0 



Distinction between a stove and a range: 

A STOVE is movable, and usually has one oven and two <l)or8. 

A RANGE may be either built into the wall (set), or sta#d out in the room (pot 
able). 
Locate the dampers and study their uses, as shown in the following illustrations. 



Indirect oi» 
Check Damper 



Direct or ^ 
Creative Oftmper 




4 



V 



\1 



Damper Closed 



- i 



Oomper Open 



r 



5ide View 

OlAQRAnOFRANQt WITH OvENDAnPtR ClOSU). 
Pipe 



EndV»v« 



Chinnney Damper 
CiMCd "" 



|i 



Indirect or* 
Check Damper 



Direct or ^ 
Credtive Damper 



Fire/Box ^^-=.j===^=,^tK^i^ 



„Ovtn Damper 





0|(kQRAn Of Rangl with Ovln DAr-iptf\ Opln 



kon IIB] 



CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUPS (PUREE) 



[Page 29] 



A PUREE is made by adding the pulp of a cooked vegetable to milk or cream. The milk 
liickened (white sauce) with flour or cornstarch in order to bind together the solid and 
id parts of the soup. 

LEFT OVERS of vegetables or vegetables too old to serve whole may be used in making 
cream soup. By forcing the pulp through a strainer the hull and coarse flber is removed, 
ream soup makes a very nourishing dish. Why? 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP 

otatoes (medium) 2 tbsp. flour Few grains Cayenne 

|t. milk 1^ tsp. salt 1 tsp. chopped parsley 

ilices onion % tsp. celery salt 

bsp. butter Vs tsp. pepper 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water until soft; rub through a strainer or potato ricer. 
lid milk with onion, remove onion and add milk slowly to potatoes. Thicken bv adding 
3 Hour which has been mixed with cold water until smooth. Thin it out with a little more 
d water and add to soup, stirring until thickened. Boil 5 minutes. Add butter and 
isonings and serve with Imperial Sticks. 



"■ .^. 




Imperial Sticks 
Imperial Sticks. — Cut buttered slices of bread into strips and brown in oven. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

c. milk % can tomatoes 3 tbsp. butter 

slice onion 1 tsp. sugar 1 tsp. salt 

tbsp. flour % tsp. soda % tsp. pepper 

Scald milk with onion, and thicken milk with flour diluted with cold water, stirring con- 
ttantly until thickened. Cook tomatoes with sugar 15 minutes, add soda and rub through 
lieve. Combine mixtures and strain. Add butter, salt and pepper. Serve with 

Crackers and Cheese. — Arrange zephyrettes in pan; sprinkle with grated cheese and 
)ake until cheese is melted. 



:R£AM OF PEA SOUP 
1 can or 1 pt. peas 
tsp. sugar 
pt. cold water 
qt. milk 
slice onion 
tbsp. flour 
tsp. salt 
tsp. pepper 



CREAM OF CORN SOUP 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 



1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 



1 can or 1 pt. com 
1 pt. cold water 
1 qt. milk 

1 slice onion 

2 tbsp. flour 
1 tsp. salt 

Vs tsp. pepper 


3 c. celery 

1 pt. boiling water 
1 qt. milk 
1 slice onion 

4 tbsp. flour 
% tsp. salt 
Few grs. pepper 



Boil vegetables until soft in the water. Force vegetables through a potato ricer or a 
coarse strainer. Add vegetable pulp, water and seasonings to the milk thickened with flour; 
2 to 4 tablespoonfuls of butter may be added. 

NOTE. — ^The butter in the Potato Soup, etc., recipes majr be omitted. If it is undesirable 
to boil the milk, cook in a double boiler 20 minutes after thickening has been added. 



[Page 30] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 12J 

HOW TO BUILD A FIBE 

LAYING THE FISE 

1. Free the grate from ashes. Turn the grate back into place. Remove the covers. 

2. Cover the grate with twisted pieces of paper. 

3. On these lay sticks of soft wood cross-wise. 

4. Put two shovelfuls of coal on top of the wood. 

5. Cover the top of the range, open all the dampers except the oven and tUe che 
damper. 

STARTING THE FIRE 

6. Light the fire by applying a lighted match under the grate to the paper or shaving 
(If the stove is to be blackened, do it now.) ^ 

7. When the wood is all ablaze, add coal until the fire-box is level full. The fire-bd 
should never be kept more than three-fourths full. I 

8. When the blue flame disappears, half close the creative damper. When the coal J 
burning well, close the creative damper almost entirely, and half close the chimney dampe 

HOW TO MANAGE A FIRE 

For a steady hot fire, rake out ashes with a poker. Fill the fire-box three-fourths fu^ 
Open the lower front creative damper and chimney dampers. Close oven and check damped 

When the lower part of the coal is red, and the top still black, close the dampers. 

Always have black coals on top. 

To heat the oven, *open the oven damper and half close the chimney damper. 

To check the fire slightly, half open the slide in the check damper. 

To check decidedly, open the check damper. 

To keep a fire over night, fill the fire-box with coal, close oven, lower front and ehimnej 
dampers, and open the check damper half way. 



•The oven damper, when properly turned, forces the heated air around the oven, before i 
escapes through the chimney. 

The dampers differ slightly in different ranges, but the purpose of each is the same. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 12B] 



SCALLOPED DISHES 



[Page 31] 



GENERAL RULES 

The crumbs used for scalloped dishes may be made from the inside of stale bread, 
rubbed or grated, or from dried bread which has been rolled. The crumbs must be seasoned 
and added to the melted butter. 

Place the moistened food material in two layers and the crumbs in three layers, using 
one- third of the buttered crumbs on the bottom of the baking dish, then half the food, then 
crumbs, food, and the remainder of the crumbs on top. 

All baking dishes must be buttered or greased. 

Melt butter in the mixing bowl over hot water, — add crumbs to the butter. 

Mix butter and crumbs with a fork. 

To 1 c. soft crumbs use 1 tbsp. butter, % tsp. salt. 

To 1 c. hard crumbs use 4 tbsp. butter, % tsp. salt. 

Few grs. pepper in dishes when pepper is used. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

3 c. stewed tomatoes 14 tsp. pepper 2 c. soft crumbs 

6 cloves ^ isp. onion juice 1 c. cracker crumbs 

1 tsp. salt 1 fsp. sugar 6 tbsp. butter 

Cook tomatoes with seasonings. Follow rules for scalloped dishes, 

SCALLOPED APPLES 

3 c. apples cut in eighths % c. water 

% c. sugar % lemon, juice and rind 

% tsp. cinnamon 2 c. soft bread crumbs 

ii tsp. nutmeg 2 tbsp. butter 

Prepare according to rule and bake 1^ hours in a moderate oven, using half the water 
on each layer of apples; or, cook apples with the sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and 1 cup of 
water, until apples are soft. Add lemon juice and rind. Follow rule for scalloped dishes 
and bake until crumbs are brown. See paragraph H. 




SCALLOPED EGGS 

4 hard cooked eggs 1^/^ c. buttered hard crumbs 

% c. or 1 c. cold chopped meat 1 pt. white sauce (Lesson 7B) 

Chop the eggs, and follow the rule, alternating the eggs and meat, or add chopped eggs 
and meat to the sauce. Follow rules for escalloped dishes. See paragraph 11. 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 pt. oysters V3 c. melted butter 

Vs c- oyster liquor or milk 1 tsp. salt 

ly^ c. cracker crumbs or stale bread crumbs Vs tsp. pepper 
Follow rules for scalloped dishes, using half of the liquor on each layer of oysters. Bake 
30 minutes in a hot oven. Never allow more than two layers of oysters for scalloped 
oysters. If three layers are used, the middle layer will be underdone, while the other two 
are properly cooked. 



[Page 32] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE 



AIR IN ITS RELATION TO COOKEBT 



[Lesson 13A] 



In Lesson SB we learned that by BEATING a mixture, a large amount of air is enclosed, 
and by CUTTING and FOLDING, the air already introduced is prevented from escaping. 

Air at 70 degrees F. expands to about double its volume, at the temperature af a hot 
oven. 

When a mixture is beaten thoroughly it is filled with air bubbles, and when this is 
cooked or baked in a hot oven, each air bubble becomes enlarged by the heat; the heat also 
dries the mixture and forma a wall around each expanded air bubble, firmly fixing it in place. 

In egg mixtures, like omelets, the heat coagulates the albumen in the egg at a 1o\n 
temperature; this firmly fixes the bubbles in place, leaving a light and porous mixture. 

All egg mixtures should be cooked at a moderate temperature. Example: Sponge Cake, 
Angel's Food, etc. 

A batter containing a large amount of water and baked in a hot oven, puffs up by the 
steam produced. The steam is formed when the liquid within the mixture is suflSciently 
heated. Water in changing to steam is expanded more than 1,700 times, and consequently 
puffs up the mixture. Example: Cream Puffs, Pop-overs, etc. 

Review lessons up to date. 






Breaking an Egg 



II 

Slipping white into a plate 
and yolk into a bowl 



III 



Beating white, enclosing aii 



NOTES: 



^8son 13B] 



OMBLBTS 

PART I 



[Page 33] 



PLAIN OBIELET 

Few grainB pepper 
1 tbsp. butter 



4 tbsp. hot water 



I tap. aalt 

Separate eggs. Beat yolks until thick; add salt, pepper and hot water. Beat whites 
atil stiff and dry, and fold them into the first mixture. Heat omelet pan and butter sides 
ad bottom. Turn in mixture. Cook slowly. When well puffed and delicately browned 
nderneath, place on grate of oven to finish cooking on top. The omelet is cooked if it is firm 
> the touch when pressed with the finger. If it clings, it is not cooked. Fold and turn on a 
ot platter. Serve with 1% cups thin white sauce (Lesson 7B). 

OMELET WITH MEAT AND VEGETABLES 

Cook plain omelet. Add cooked vegetables or meat to the white sauce or fold them into 
he omelet mixture. 

OYSTER OMELET 

Fold in oysters cut in halves to plain omelet mixture. Follow directions given in Plain 
)melet recipe. 




PAKTn 



POP OVERS 



^ tsp. melted butter 



1 c. flour 

^ tsp. salt 2 eggs 

Mix salt and flour; add one-half the milk, beat until smooth. Add remaining half of 
milk, well-beaten eggs and butter. Beat 2 minutes with Dover egg beater. Turn into hot 
buttered iron gem pans, and bake about 35 minutes in a hot oven. Canned peach halves may 
be dropped into mixture in pan just before baking. The mixture will cover the peach. 
Serve with peach sauce. 

Creamed meat or vegetables may be served in Pop-over cases. 



[Pitge 34J 



PART in. CREAM PUFFS 



[Leason 14A 




CR£AM PUFFS 

^ c butter 1 c. boiling water l c. flour 4 Mgm 

Put butter and water in saucepan and place over the. fire. As soon as it begins to 
boil add flour, all at once, and stir briskly, until the mixture leaves the side of the pan^ 
Remove from the fire, cool, add one unbeaten egg, add another^ beat; and so on, until thci 
four have been added. Drop hy spoonfuls onto a buttered pan about two inches apart. Bake 
in a moderate oven from 25 to 45 minutes, or until puffs are firin and crusty to the touch 
CooL With a sharp knife make a cut and fill with Cream Filling or Whipped Cream. Cream 
puff mixture may be fried in deep fat. Creamed vegetables and meat or fish may be served 
in cream puff cases. j 



% c. sugar 
Vs c. fiour 



CREAM FILLING 

1 tsp. salt 

2 eggs 



2 c scalded milk 
1 tsp. vanilla 



Mix dry ingredients; add eggs slightly beaten, and poiu* on gradually the scalded milk. 
Cook 15 minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly until thickened. Cool and flavor. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

1 pt. heavy cream % c sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Beat the cream with a Dover egg-beater until thick; add sugar and vanilla. Beat until 
thoroly mixed. Cream should be cold and the bowl containing it placed in a pan of ice 
water while beating. If beaten too long it will separate. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRE 

Shape cream puff mixture 4% in. long by 1 in. wide. Bake about 25 n^nutes in a 
moderate oven. Split and fill with cream filling. Frost with chocolate frosting. 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING 



Mix 4 tbsp. boiling water or scalded cream with 1 square melted chocolate, add enougb 
confectioner's sugar gradually to make it of right consistency to spread. One yolk of egg may 
be added and % tsp. vanilla. 



[Lesson 14B] NOURISHING DESSERTS [Page 35] 

APPLE SNOW 

% c. apple pulp Whites 3 eggs Powdered sugar 

Pare, quarter and core 4 sour apples. Steam until soft and rub through sieve. There 
should be % c. apple pulp. Beat the whites of eggs until stiff; add gradually apples sweet- 
ened to taste. Pile lightly on a dish and serve with custard sauce. One tbsp. lemon juice 
may be added. 

PRUNE WHIP may be made by substituting % c. pulp of steamed prunes. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

1^^ c. scalded milk ^ c. sugar ^ tsp. vanilla 

Yolk 3 eggs Vs tsp. salt 

Beat the yolks slightly, add sugar and salt; stir constantly while adding ffradually the 
hot milk to the yolk mixture. Return to the double boiler. Cook in the double boiler, 
stirring constantly until the mixture thickens, and a coating is formed on the spoon. Chill 
and flavor. If cooked too long, custard will curdle. Should this hap pen, beating the mixture 
with a Dover egg beater wiU restore the smooth consistency. When eggs are scarce, use 
two yolks and % tbsp. cornstarch. 

TAPIOCA CREAM PUDDING 

1^ tbsp. minute tapioca, or ^ c. pearl tapioca % c. sugar 
2 c. sciuded milk ^ tsp. salt 

2 eggs 1 tbsp. vanilla 

Pick over tapioca and soak one hour in cold water to cover. Drain, add to milk and 
cook in a double boiler until tapioca is transparent. Mix the yolks with the sugar and salt. 
(Combine by pouring hot mixture slowly into egg mixture. Return to double boiler and cook 
until it thickens while stirring constantly. Fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff; remove 
from range, chill and serve. 




Sago Pudding, with Whipped Cream and Candied Cherries 

SAGO PUDDING 

% c. sago Va c. sugar 

2 c. scalded milk ^4 tsp salt 

2 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla or grated rind one lemon 

Pick over sago and wash, drain, add to milk, and cook in a double boiler until sago 
is transparent. Mix the yolks with sugar and salt. Combine mixtures by pouring hot mix- 
ture slowly into egg mixture and cook in a double boiler until thickened. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites; remove from range. Flavor and mold. Serve cold with 

GRAPE SAUCE 

^ c. sweetened grape juice % e. water 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 

Heat the grape juice and water; add the cornstarch diluted with % c. cold water. Boil 5 
minutes, stirring until thickened; add the lemon juice. If not sweet enough, add sugar to 
taste. 

One pound grapes usually makes 1 pt. juice; 1 c. sugar is usually added to 1 pt. of grape 
juice. 



[Page 36] BASIC PRIN0IPLB8 OF DOMESTIC Sa£KC£ [Lesson ISA] 

FOOD 

Lifeless food makes life tissue. 

FOOD is anytliiiig that nonrislies the body. 

Food is necessary for repair, growth and energy. The food is to the body what wood^ 
coal or other fuel is to the locomotive engine. Let us make use of this familiar comparison: 

The LocomotiYe Engine The Human Body 

1. Material structure 1. Material structure 

2. Fuel— coal, wood, etc. 2. Food. 

3. Air 3. Air 

4. Water 4. Water 

5. Waste products 5. Waste products 

Neither the body nor the engine can do its work without food or fuel and plenty of 
fresh air. 

The fuel in the fire-box of the engine is burnt by the aid of the oxygen in the air 
uniting with the carbon in the fuel. The heat produced changes the water into steam, and 
the expansion of this steam produces motion. 

The human body moves from place to place and is kept warm because K slow fire is 
burning within us. The food taken into the body is burnt or oxidized in nearly every part 
of the body. Without fresh air and food every day the slow fire would go out and we would 
gradually waste away and die. 

Every part of the steam engine is always wearing out, but it cannot repair itself. 

The body, too, is always wearing out, but it can repair itself. Every beat of the heart, 
every movement of a muscle, etc., all lead to waste. What we eat and drink takes the 
place of what is used up. 

The young and growing must take in a little more than what is used up. The food we 
eat is turned into flesh, bone, hair, etc., besides furnishing heat and energy. 

The food must be digested, absorbed and assimilated. The blood carries the absorbed 
food to every part of the body. 

The engine gets rid of its waste in the form of ashes, cinders, and gases. 

The body gets rid of its waste products by different channels, breath, perspiration, etc. 

The engine will not do its work unless all parts are kept in working order. 

Each and every part of the human body, in order to do its work properly, must be kept 
in a good condition, used in the proper way, and kept clean inside and outside. 

NOTES: 



CLesson 15B] 



FRUIT TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 



[Page 37] 




FBUIT TAPIOCA AND SAQO PUDDINGS 



APPLE 



PEACH 

Rind % lemon 

% c. tapioca or sago 

Cold water to cover 

% c. boiling water 

2 c. canned peaches and 

syrup 
V^ tsp. salt 
^ c. sugar 
1 tbsp. lemon juice 
Rind % lemon 



STRAWBERRY 

^ c. tapioca or sago 
Cold water to^ cover 
IV^ c. boiling* water 
1% c strawberry pulp or 

l^i c. canned strawberries 

Sweeten to taste 
Vs tsp. salt 
Rind % lemon 



% c. tapioca 
Cold water to cover 
2% c boiling water 
7 sour apples cut in 

eighths (cooked) 
^ tsp. salt 
^ c. sugar 
1 tbsp. lemon juice 
Few grs. nutmeg and 

cinnamon 

DIRECTIONS. — ^Wash and soak the tapioca and sago one hour or more in enough cold 
water or fruit juice to cover; add the boiling water, cooked fruit, fruit juices, salt, sugar and 
leinoii rind. Cook in a double boiler until tapioca or sago is transparent. Mold, chill and serve 
with cream and sugar. Minute tapioca may be used, and this requires no soaking. 

^ The cooked fruit, when large fruit is used, may be used to line the mould, and only the 
fruit juices added to the tapioca mixture. 

The stiflly beaten whites of two or three eggs may be folded in just before pouring the 
mixture into the mould. The yolks may be used in making a custard sauce, and served with 
the pudding. Adding the eggs makes the pudding more nutritious. 



NORWEGIAN PRUNE PUDDING 



1^ lb. prunes 
2 c. cold water 
1 c. sugar 



1 tsp. lemon juice 

Rind % lemon 

1 inch piece stick cinnamon 



1% c. boiling water 
Vs c. cornstarch 



Pick over and wash prunes, then soak one hour or more in cold water to cover. Boil 
until soft in the water in which they have been soaked. Remove the stones; add sugar, 
lemon juice, rind, cinnamon, boiling water, and simmer fifteen minutes. Mix cornstarch 
with enough cold water to pour easily, add to cooked prune mixture and cook 5 minutes. 
Remove cinnamon, mold and chill. Serve with plain or whipped cream. Chopped almonds 
may be added to the mixture just before being poured into the mould. 



[Page 38] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson leA] 

FOOD— Oontinued 

The whole world is made up of elements and their compounds. 

Of the seventy different elements, only about thirteen entec into the composition of the 
body. The four most important are: Oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and nitrogen. These are 
formed into chemical compounds by the vegetable and animal kingdoms, and support the 
human being. 

The substances comprising the body must be obtained from the food, air (N4 0) and 
water (H2 0). That it may be easier to understand the subject of foods and their diges- 
tion, food is classified as follows: 

( Proteids 
Organic •< Carbohydrates 
( Fats and Oils 

Mineral Matter 



^o'«^»|S? 



Proteids always contain nitrogen and are called nitrogenous foods. 

They also contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and one or more elements, and are called 
tissue-builders, because their chief oflice is to build and repair tissues. 

Example: Fish, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, peas, beans and cereals. 

Carbohydrates include all the sugars and starches. 

They contain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The chief office of the carbohydrates is 
to furnish energy and maintain heat. 

Example: Cereals, rice, sago, tapioca; vegetables, (potatoes); sugar cane, sugar of 
fruits, etc., cellulose and gums. > '^ fi 

Fats and Oils are composed of carbon and hydrogen, with a little less oxygen than the 
carbohydrates. The chief office of the fats and oils is to store up heat and energy to be 
used as needed, and they form the fatty tissues of the body. They yield about twice as 
much heat, pound for pound, as the carbohydrates. They are obtained from both the animal 
and the vegetable kingdoms. 

Example: Butter, cream, and the fat of meats, fish, cereals, nuts, and the berry, of the^ 
olive tree (olive oil) . 

Mineral Matter. — The chief office of mineral matter is to build up bone and other tissue, 
to aid digestion, and to purify the blood. < 

Example: Sodium, iron, lime, potash, sulphur, salt. 

Water. — See Lesson 4 A. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 16B] 



SIMPLE SALADS 



[Page 39] 



1 tap. salt 

1 tsp. mustard 

2 tsp. sugar 

Mix the salt, 
with 1 tbsp. cold 
the scalded milk; 
the yolk mixture, 
mixture thickens. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

Few grs. cayenne % c. scalded milk 

1 tbsp. flour j4 c* hot vinegar. 

Yolks 2 eggs or 1 egg 
mustard, sugar and cayenne; add the yolks and mix thoroly. Stir flour 
water until smooth. Add a little of the scalded milk, stir, pour it into 
cook in a double boiler, continue stirring until thickened. Pour it into 
return to double boiler, add the hot vinegar, stirring constantly until the 
Add the butter. Cool before using. If cooked too long it will curdle. 



SHREDDED CABBAGE OR COLD SLAW 

Bemove wilted leaves, and cut a quarter from a small head of cabbage and let stand in 
cold water until crisp. Cut out stalk, and cut into very flne pieces. Serve with cooked 
salad dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Scoop out the inside of a small head of cabbage. Cut into small pieces. Add finely 
cut celery. Soak until crisp in cold water. Drain. Moisten with salad dressing. May be 
served in the cabbage heacl. 




POTATO SALAD 

2 c. cubed boiled potatoes 1 c. finely cut celery 

1 apple cut in ^-inch cubes Salad dressing 

Add salad dressing to moisten. Garnish with celery tips, curled celery or hard-boiled 



eggs. 




SALMON SALAD 

Flake remnants of cold boiled salmon, or canned salmon. Add celery moistened with 
salad dressing. Arrange on nests of lettuce leaves. Garnish with the yolk of a hard cooked 
egg forced thru a potato ricer or strainer, and the white of egg cut into strips, 
of lemon dipped in finely cut parsley may be used as a garnish. 



Thin slices 



[Page 40] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIBaiCE [Lesson 17A] 

LAYINa THE TABLE 

The room should be in perfect order, the air fresh, and the temperature comfortable. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Cover the table with an undercloth of felting or Canton flannel, or a clean cotton blanket 
may be used. Over this spread a spotless table cloth evenly, the middle fold upward dividing 
the table exactly in half. 

POSITION OF HOST AND HOSTESS 

Position of the host, at the head of the table, near entrance door. Hostess at the foot 
of the table opposite. 

PLACING TRAY CLOTH, CARVING CLOTH, CENTERPIECE, ETC. 

Tray cloth in front of hostess; carving cloth in front of host, on which arrange the 
knife rest. Carafe cloths near comers of table. 

PLACING PLATES 

Place a plate for each person, one inch from edge of table. If bread and butter plates 
are used, place one plate a little to the left, with butter spreader on edge of plate, a little 
to the right of plate. If individual butter plates are used, place over tip of fork. 

PLACING ENIVSl, FORES AND SPOONS 
Place the knife or knives at the right oi each plate, the sharp edge toward the plate; 
the fork or forks at the left, tines up, one inch from the edge, being careful to have the 
spacing the same at every place. Spoons at right of knife, bowls upTnandles an inch from 
the edge of the table, or over the plate, handles to the right. Place silver in the order in 
which it is to be used counting from the outside toward the plate. 

PLACING THE GLASSES 

Place the water glass top up at right of plate, at end of knife blade. 

PLACING NAPKINS, PEPPER, SALT 
Place napkins at left of plate. Pepper and salt near corners, or one of each between 
the places for two people. 

CHAIRS 
Arrange chairs so they need not be drawn out when people are seated. 

SIDEBOARD AND SIDE-TABLE 

Object: To hold all extras that may be needed during a meal. Sideboard may or may 
not be covered. Side table should always be covered. 

EXTRAS ON SIDEBOARD 

Plates, tumblers, forks, knives, spoons, cups, saucers, sugar bowl and creamer, water 
pitcher, milk pitcher, crushed ice, finger bowls, oil and condimenta. 

SIDE-TABLE 

Serving plates, silver, carving knives and forks, trays (small), table scraper and tray. 
Space for soup tureen cover, vegetable dishes, gravy boats, etc. 
Have at hand a soft napkin and heavy cloth in case of accident. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson ITS'] BREAKFAST TABLE [Page 41] 

BREAKFAST 
ARRANGE COFFEE SERVICE ON TRAY CLOTH 

Before Serving — Fill finger bowls % full cf tepid water, and place on a fruit plate 
covered with a doily. Knife at right and spoon at left. 

Place fruit in center of table. 

Cut bread and place on table; also butter balls. Fill carafes, water pitcher, milk 
pitcher and creamer. Put crushed ice in tumblers, fill % full of water. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR SERVING 

Meal is served from the table by host and hostess, or from side table by the waitress. 

Warm plates for hot food. 

Cold plates for cold food. 

Dishes are held in the ptiim of the left hand on a folded napkin, or placed on a tray 
covered with a doily. 

Everything is placed at the right and passed at the left. 

In passing, hold left hand or tray low enough that each person may serve himself easily. 

Serving silver should be placed in dish of food b*^ fore p^issing. 

If possible, serve hostess first and host last; serving those at right of hostess, then those 
at left. Serve otie Couifse around the table to the right, the second to the: left, that all may 
be sure of equal attention; i 

Keep ghisses properly filled. To fill glasses, draw to edge of table (do not remove from 
table) then replace. 

IN CLEARING THE TABLE BETWEEN COURSES. 
First, remove food, platters, serving dishes. 

Second, soiled china, silver, glass, cutlery. Do not remove silver and cutlery from dishes 
in which they have been used. 

Third, clean china, glass and cutlery. 

Remoye everything relating to one course before serving another. 

Plates should be removed with the right hand at left of person, one at a time. If two 
are removed at once, take one in each hand; never pile. 



[Pitge 48] BASIC PRINCIPLSS OF DOMESTIC 6GIENCB [Leuon ISA] 

DINNEB 

A SIMPIiE DINNKR may contiit of two couztet, meat or flah with yegetablea, and a 
desBert. 

A Dinner may conaiat of three coursei, loup.meat or flah with yegetables, and a deaaert. 

A Dinner may haye more courses^ aa soup with rolla or bread, croutona or baked crack- < 
era, fish, meat with yegetables, salad, desaert, coffee. 

AHSANOS THS CLOTHS, KHIVES AND FORKS AS FOR THK BREAKFAST 

Place at the right of each knife a soup spoon and a teaspoon, or more if needed. , 

A carying knife and fork should be placed at the right of the host, who usually aeryes 
the meat, and the tablespoons beside the dish to be senred. 

Bread sticks or dinner bread is placed in the folds of the napkin. 

If the senring is done by the host or hostess, the hostess should serye the soup, yegeta- < 
bles, salad, dessert, and tea or coffee; the host, meat or fish. 

Myith a waitress, the hostess seryes the soup, salad, dessert and coffee; the host, meat or , 
fish, while the waitress passes the plates as food is senred, and also seryes the yegetablea and 
entrees. ^ 

Place a ladle with the handle at the right, beside the tureen, before the hostess, and hot : 
soup plates directly in front, almost touching tureen to preyent dripping on doth. 

In serying, soup should be dipped away from, not toward, the person. The same rule 
holds good in eating it. i 

After the coyer has been removed from the tureen, the waitress should stand at the left 
of the one who is serying, hold the tray in the left hand, and with the right place the filled 
plate on the tray. Take it to the right of each person and, with the right hand, set it in ' 
f ront,clo8e to the edge of the table. | 

After the first course, remoye the soup tureen and the plates, one at a time, on a tray, or 
by taking one in each hand. Neyer pile one on the other. 

Arrange the meat and the plates for the second course. 

If anything is seryed with the course, the dish containing it should be placed on the i 
tray, or held in the palm of the left hand on a folded napkin, with the handle of the aerving 
spoon or fork toward the person. Pass it to the left side of each. 

In remoying a course, take large dishes or platters first; then the plates and kniyes | 
and forks. . 

The carying knife and fork should be placed side by side on the platter. 

Before the dessert is placed on the table, remove all dishes except the dessert spoons , 
and glasses. Remoye crumbs with a crumb knife or napkin. 

Place the dessert in front of the hostess, serving spoon or fork at her right, plates and * 
saucers in front or at the left. | 

NOTES: 



Lesson 18B] 



PRACTICE TEST LESSON 



[Page 43] 




Luncheon Prepared From Left-Overs 

MENU I 

Cream of Com Soup 
Pop Com Bread Sticks 

Scalloped Veal and Tomatoes 
Tomato Sauce Bread and Butter 

Fruit Tapioca, Cream and Sugar 



MENU n 

Tomato Soup 

Celery Crackers 

Scalloped Flaked Cod 

or 

Hot Meat Sandwiches 

Potatoes with Parsley Sauce Bread and Butter 

Sago Pudding with Grape Sauce 



Prepare above, using large recipes. 

Cost of preparing above menus to serve six: 

Material Quantity 



Cost 



[Page 44] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE 



INDIVmUAL RE0IPE8 FOB FIRST 8EME8TEB. 



LESSON 6B 



Com Oysters 

2 tbsp. sweet corn 
2 tsp. beaten egg 
2 tsp. flour 
Few grs. salt 
Few grs. pepper 



Baked Corn 



Milk Toaat 



f 



2 tbsp. corn 

M yolk egg 

2 tsp. flour 

% tsp. green pepper 

Vs tsp. salt 

^ beaten white 

LESSON 7B 



Sauce 



1 slice bread 

% c. milk 
1 tsp. flour 
1 tsp. cold water 
Few grains salt 



Hot Chicken Sandwich Recipe 



LESSON 8B 



May use small piece of veal 

1 slioe of bread cut in fourths, making 

two small sandwiches 
% c. sauce made with stock 



Stuffed Tomatoes 

1 tomato 

3 tbsp. cracker crumbs 

4 tbsp. finely chopped 

cooked meat 
% tsp. butter 
1-16 tsp. salt 
Few grs. pepper 



Demonstrate Croustades 

and 

« 

Eggs a la Golden Rod 

1 hard-cooked egg 



Demonstrate 
The Club House Sandwich 



German Toast 

2 tsp. egg 
Few grs. salt 
% tsp. sugar 
1% tbsp. milk 
1 slice bread 



LESSON 9B 

Baked Apple. 

1 apple 
1 tbsp. sugar 
Few grs. cinnamon 
Few grs. nutmeg 
Rind Ys lemon 



Demonstrate 
Baked Bananas 



Tomato Soup 

% c. tomatoes 
^ c. water 
2 peppercorns 
Bit of bay leaf 
1 clove 
1-6 tsp. sugar 



1-6 slice onion 
1-6 tsp. salt 
1^ tsp. soda 
1 tsp. flour 
1 tsp. water 
1 tsp. butter 



LESSON lOB 

Vegetable Soup 

1 sUce carrot 
1 slice turnip 
1 tsp. celery 
3 slices potato 
1 slice onion 



Small piece of suet 
1% c water 
^ tsp. parsley 
Few grs. pepper 
^ tsp. salt 



LESSON IIB 
Cream of Potato Soup 



% potato 
% c. milk 
^ slice onion 
1 tsp. butter 
1 tsp. flour 



Va tsp. salt 

Few grs. celery salt 

^ tsp. parsley 

1 slice bread for Imperial Sticks 



Cream of Tomato Soup 



% c. milk 
y^ slice onion 
1 tbsp. flour 



Vs c. tomatoes 
1-16 tsp. soda 
% tsp. sugar 



2 tsp. butter 
% tsp. salt 



Few grs. pepper 
1 cracker 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES FOR FIRST SEMESTER 



[Page 45] 



calloped Apples. 



Sauce, 



% apple 

1^ tbep. sugar 

Few graioB cinnamon 

Few grains nutmeg 

^ c. water 

% tap. lemon juice 

y^ c. soft bread crumbs packed 

1 tsp. butter 



LESSON 12B 

Scalloped Eggs. 



1 tbsp. meat 

4 tbsp. crumbs and 2 tsp. butter 
3 tbsp. white sauce (T) enough to 
moisten 



LESSON 13B 



)melet 



1 egg 

% tsp. salt 
Few grs. pepper 
1 tbsp. hot water 
y^ tbsp. butter 



LESSON 14B 

Cream Puffs. 

2 tbsp. butter 

4 tbsp. boiling water 

4 tbsp. floui 

1 egg 



LESSON 13B 



Pop Overs 



4 tbsp. flour 

1-16 tsp. salt 

3% tbsp. milk 

2 tbsp. beaten egg 

1-16 tsp. melted butter 



A>pple Snow. 

% apple steamed 

y^ beaten white of egg 

1 tbsp. powdered sugar 



LESSON 14B 

Prune Whip 

8 prunes 

% beaten white of egg 

1 tbsp. powdered sugar 



Custard Sauce. 

^ c. scalded milk 
1-16 tsp. salt 
2 tsp. sugar 
% yolk 

Few drops vanilla 



Sago Pudding 

% tbsp. sago 
Vs c. milk 
% yolk and white 
2 tsp. sugar 
Few grs. salt 
4 drops vanilla 



Grape Sauce. 

3 tbsp. grape juice 
3 tbsp. water 
%tsp. corn starch 
1 tsp. lemon juice 



Salad Dressing 

y^ tap. salt 
y^ tsp. mustard 
y^ tsp. sugar 
Few grs. cayenne 
1% tsp. flour 
% yolk 

3 tbsp. scalded milk 
1 tbsp. vinegar 



LESSON 16B 

Potato Salad 

% c potato cubed 
1 slice apple 
1 tsp. celery 



Salmon Salad 

1% tbsp. salmon 



Demonstrate Cabbage Salad 



[Page 46] BASIC PttlNGIPLES OF DOMESTIC 8GIENCB 



NOTES: [Piige 47] 



[Page 48] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



HOTES: [Fttge 40] 



[Page 50] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SGIENCB [LeMon 19A] 

OABBOHTDRATES— HEAT AND ENESGY PBODUOEBS 
CARBOHYDRATES CONTAIH CARBON, HYDROGEN AND OXYGEN 

The hydrogen and oxygen are in the same proportion as in water (H2 0). 

Containing a large amount of carbon, the element which will bum, they are classed as 
fuel foods. 

The Fuel Foods which we eat combine in our bodies with the oxygen inhaled with the air 
we breathe, producing heat and the necessary power for motion. 

The slow fire in our bodies takes place in all the tissues. 

The normal temperature of the body is 98 plus deg. F., and as this is the same summer 
and winter, we need more fuel foods in the winter than in the summer. 

Carbohydrates furnish energy and maintain heat. 

Carbohydrates include all the starches and sugars. 

Carbohydrates in the form of starch furnish a bulky food, and while a certain amount of 
bulk is necessary, an excess causes gastric trouble. 

STARCH 
STARCH is a white glistening powder. It is found in the vegetable kingdom and most 
abundantly in cereals (rice, wheat, oats, etc.)) sago, tapioca, nuts, arrowroot and vegetables. 
Alone it cannot sustain life, but must be taken with foods that build and repair tissue. 

Experiments show that: 

1. Cold water separates the starch grains. 

2. Boiling water swells and softens starch grains. If starch has been mixed with 

cold water first, boiling water added forms a soft paste. 

3. Boiling water poured on dry starch forms a lumpy mixture. 

4. Starch mixed with sugar before boiling water is added separates the starch 

grains and forms a smooth paste. 

5. Starch mixed with melted butter before adding boiling water separates the 

starch grains and forms a smooth mixture. 

6. Starch heated without water becomes sticky, yellow, brown, then black, but 

does not swell nor soften. 

Heat and moisture are necessary to soften starch. 

Raw starch is not soluble. 

All foods containing starch must be thoroly cooked in order to prepare them for diges- 
tion. 

The digestion of starch begins in the mouth, where, if masticated sufficiently, it is acted 
upon by the ptyalin of the saliva. This changes the starch into a soluble substance called 
dextrine (a sugar). The food passes on to the stomach where no action takes place on 
starch, and into the small intestines, where the change into dextrose (or sugar) is completed 
by the action of amylopsin, a ferment in the pancreatic juice. 

All starch must be changed into dextrose before it can be absorbed and used in tha body. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 19B] 



POTATOES 



[Page 61] 



A POTATO IS A TUBER OR AN ENLAROSMENT OF THE UNDEROROUND STEM 

Potatoes contain more than three-quarters water and nearly one-flfth starch. They also 
contain a very small amount of proteid matter, potash salts and other mineral matter. 

Potatoes should be kept in a cool, dark, dry place. If kept in a light place, an unpleas- 
ant flavor is developed. 

Potatoes pared before being boiled lose much of their food value during cooking. 

Most of the mineral matter lies just beneath the skin. 

Always pare potatoes thinly when skin is removed, and take out eyes with the point of 
the knife. 

Old or poor potatoes are improved by soaking for one hour in cold water, as it restores 
the moisture lost by long drying. 

Rapidly boiling water wears off the outside of the potato before the middle is cooked. 
Let it bubble gently. 

If the outside of large potatoes becomes soft before the inside is cooked, add one pint of 
cold water. There is heat enough inside the potato to finish the cooking. 

Quickly baked potatoes are more easily (Ugested than boiled potatoes. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Choose medium-sized potatoes. Wash, pare and drop into cold water. Ck>ok in freshly 
boiling salted water until soft. Drain, uncover and shake gently over the fire until the out- 
side is dry and mealy. 

NOTE.— One tsp. salt to 1 qt. of water. 




1 tsp. salt 



RICED POTATOES 

Press hot boiled potatoes thru the ricer or a coarse strainer. 

MASHED POTATOES 
6 medium-sized potatoes % tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp.. butter Va c. hot milk or more 

Boil and drain the potatoes — rice and mash in the saucepan in which they have been 
cooked* 

Season, add the butter, and gradually the hot milk. 

Beat until light with a fork, or wire beater, and pile on a hot dish. 

BAKED POTATOES 
Select medium- sized potatoes, wash, scrub and dry them well. Bake them in a shallow 
pan on the rack in a moderately hot oven until soft (about 40 to 45 min). Turn them occa- 
sionally, and when soft press them between the fingers to break the skins in order to let the 
steam escape. Serve in a folded napkin. 



.^^^JpiM. 




POTATO PUFFS 
Bake 6 potatoes. When baked, cut slice from top of each and scoop out inside. 
Mash according to recipe for mashed potatoes. 
Refill the jackets, brush the tops with slightly beaten white of egg, and brown in oven. 

CREAMED POTAT.0ES 
Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and allow 1^ c. white sauce to 2 c. cubed potatoes. 
Reheat new potatoes in white sauce. Finely minced parsley may be added. 



[Page 62] 



BASIC PRmaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Leiflon 2aA] 



0ABB0HTDSATB8— 0BBEAL8 

CEREALS or ORAINS are grasses, the seeds of which are used for food. 

The word ''CereaF' comes from the name of the Roman goddess, Ceres, who was called 
the ''Goddess of Agriculture." 

Nature provides some kind of a cereal in almost every country — ^from the oats and rye 
qf the northern countries to the rice of the southern coimtries. Man depends on it for his 
daily hread. The following data, hased upon the results gathered in dietary studies, shows 
that cereal foods alone supplied the average family with 22% of the total food oonsuuEied— 
furnishing 31% protein, 7% fat and 55% carbohydrates in the diet. Cereals provide a com- 
pact food in a dry state easily kept. They contain the food elements in a desirable propor- 
tion with a small amount of refuse, are easilv prepared,, and furnish a digestible and inex- 
pensivie food. All grains are covered with a hull or husk, which is indigestible. This is always 
removed. They also have another coating, a bran layer, which may or may not be removed. 
This is rich in mineral matter. In some the germ is removed. 

Grains should be thoroly cooked before serving. 

The grains usually used for food are: Wheat, oats, com, rice, rye, and barley. 

Grains crushed are called grits. 

Grains crushed more finely or coarsely ground make meaL 

Grains finely ground and sifted make fiour. 

Grains are usually mixed with water or other liquid to hydrate the starch, boiled or 
steamed and served as porridge or pudding, or with meat stock in soups, or with milk or 
water and baked into bread or cakes. 

The cooking swells and bursts the starch cells. 

Among the most important are wheat, Indian com or niaixe, oats, rice^ xyc, and barley. 

From these are prepared various breakfast foods—oatmeal, wheatena, vitos, etc. 

They all contain more or less starch and therefore should be thoroly cooked. 

Cereals contain from 66 to 75% starch, from 7 to 15% proteid, from 1 to 10% fat, from 
10 to 12% water. 

Cereals should absorb all the water in cooking. 

The cooked cereal should be stiff enough to be chewed. Why? 



TABLE SHOWING COMPOSITION OF CEREALS. 








Proteid 


Fat 


Starch 


Minerals 


Water 


Oatmeal 


15.6 

14.2 

13.7 

11.8 

10.4 

9.3 

8.9 

7.8 

7.1 

6.1 


7.3 
1.9 
2.2 
1.1 
1.0 
1.0 
2.2 
0.4 
0.9 
■ 1.0 


68.0 

70.6 

70.3 

75.0 ■ 

75.6 

77.6 

75.1 

79.4 

78.5 

77.2 


1.9 
1.2 
2.0 
0.5 
0.5 
1.3 
0.9 
0.4 
0.8 
1.4 


7.2 


Entire Wheat Flour 


12.1 


Graham Flour ,,..... 


11.8 


Wheat Flour (Spring) 


11.6 


Wheat Flour (Winter) 


12.5 


Commeal 


ia.8 


Pearl Barley 


12.9 


Rice 


12.4 


Rye Meal 


12.7 


Buckwheat Flour 


14.3 



The preceding table is from the Department of Agriculture, Washington. 

For Family use, cereals should be bought in small quantities, and kept in glass or tin 
jars tightly covered. 

GENERAL RULES 

Directions for Lower Part of Double Boiler.— Fill the lower part of the double boiler 
one- third full of water; it must be kept rapidly boiling while cereal is cooking. If more 
water is needed before the cereal is cooked, add boiling water. 

Directions for Upper Part of Double Boiler. — ^Measure the water, boil, add salt and the 
cereal slowly, and place directly over the heat. Boil from 5 to 10 minutes, stirring to pre- 
vent burning; place over the boiling water which is in the lower part of double boiler and 
steam until cooked. If more water is needed, add boiling water. 
TABLE showing the time of cooking, and proportions of salt and water for Breakfast Cereals. 



Tsp.ofSalt 

to a Cup of 

Cereal 



Cupfuls of 
Water to 1 
Cup Cereal 



KIND 



Method of 
Cooking 



Time of Cooking 
in Hours 



OATMEAL, ROLLED OATS, etc. 

RICE 

RICE 

INDIAN MEAL 



2 

8 or more 
3 
6 



HOMINY 

FARINA and other fine wheat pro- 
ductions •. . ...... . 



Steam 
Boil 
Steam 
Boil 

Steam 

Steam 



1 hour or more 
% hour or more 
1 hour 
If soaked, 3; 

If not, e 
If soaked, 3; 

If not, 6 
1 to 3 hours 



[Lesson 20B] CEREALS [Page 53] 




Oatmeal Mush with Apples 

OATMEAL MUSH WITH APPLES 

1 c. oatmeal (rolled) 1 tsn. salt 

2 c. boiling water 6 cooked apples 

Place lower part of double boiler Vs full of water over the fire. 

Measure the boiling water and salt into top part of double boiler. Place directly over 
the fire. Add oatmeal gradually. Boil directly over the flre from 5 to 10 minutes. Place 
upper part of double boiler containing cereal into lower part of boiler containing water. 
Cook 1 hour, or more. 

Core apples; leave large cavities; pare and cook in syrup (made of 1% c. of water and 
Y2 c. sugar) until soft. Fill the centers with oatmeal mush and serve with cream. 

WHEATENA WITH DATES, FIGS, PRUNES, ETC. 

% c. wheatena 2 c. of boiling water % lb. dates, stoned and 

^2 c. cold water 1 tsp. salt cut in pieces 

Mix cereal, salt, dates and cold water; add boiling water gradually, place on front of 
range. Boil 5 minutes, then cook in double boiler 1 hour or more. Serve with cream. 

PETTIJOHN'S BREAKFAST FOOD 

1 c. Pettijohn's Breakfast Food 1 tsp. salt 

1^ c. water Follow rules for cooking cereals. 

CEREAL OMELET 

4 eggs ^ c. or 4 tbsp. soft cooked 

^ tsp. salt cereal, Vitos, Cream of 

Wheat, etc. 

Beat yolks until thick; add salt and cooked cereal. 

Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and cook in a buttered omelet pan. 

Follow directions in Lesson 13B. 

NOTE.— ALL CEREALS SHOULD BE THOROLY COOKED; THE LONGER THE BET- 
TER. CEREALS MAY BE COOKED THE PRECEDING DAY AND THEN REHEATED 
FOR BREAKFAST. COVER WITH A CLEAN, DAMP CLOTH SO THAT MOISTURE WILL 
NOT DROP INTO CEREAL FROM A TIN COVER. 

CEREALS ARE COOKED TO ADVANTAGE IN FIRELESS COOKERS. 

NOTE.— GRATED CHEESE MAY BE ADDED TO ANY COLD LEFT-OVER CEREAL, 
MADE INTO CROQUETTES AND FRIED. COLD CORNMEAL MUSH MAY BE SLICED 
AND SAUTED. 



[Page 54] BA8IG PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [LeMon 21A] 

OABBOHTDRATES— BIOE 

RICE IS A CEREAL, grown in Ceylon, China, Japan, Central America and the Gulf States. 

Rice is grown in swampy places and the very best rice is grown where there is a foot 
or two of water above the roots around the stem of the plants. 

There are two kinds of rice commonly sold, the Carolina rice which is a long slender 
grain, and the Japanese rice which is a short, fiat, oval grain. 

The commercial rice is usually polished and coated with glucose and talcum. The polish- 
ing removes the covering which is rich in mineral matter and therefore makes it undesirable. 
Buy unpolished rice, as it is not only richer in mineral matter but also in protein. 

Rice is the richest in starch (having about 79 per cent) and the poorest in proteid and 
fat, of all the cereals. The starch grains are small and are easily digested. 

Rice is said to be the main food of one-third of the human race. With the exception 
of wheat, more millions of people eat rice as their main food than any other one cereal. 
The people of China, Japan and India use rice as their main food, not alone, but in combina- 
tion with protein foods. 

Alone, rice is not a perfect food. It should be eaten with foods that build and repair 
tissues, as eggs, milk, meat, cheese, etc. 

When boiled, rice absorbs five times its weight in water; but loses some of its small 
amount of mineral matter. 

The water in which rice has been cooked may be utilized in mixing bread, or it may be 
combined with vegetables and used as a basis for soups. 

The older and drier the rice, the longer it takes to soften. 

TO WASH RICE. — Put rice into a wire strainer; put strainer in a bowl of cold water, 
and rub the rice between the hands; change water two or three times, or until rice is clean, 
when the water will be clean. Polished rice should be washed in six waters to remove the 
talc and glucose covering. 

Review Carbohydrates. 

Make out five questions. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 21B1 GABBOHYDRATES [Plige 55] 

RIOE 

PART I 

BOILED RICE 

1 c. rice 2 qts. boiling water 1 tsp. salt 

Pick over rice; add slowly to boiling salted water so as not to check the boiling of the 
water. Boil 30 minutes, or until soft. I>rain in a coarse strainer and pour over it 1 qt. of 
the cold water, in order to separate the starch grains. Return to kettle, place on back of 
range and let it stand to dry off, when kernels are distinct. When stirring rice always use 
a fork to avoid breaking kernels. 

STEAMED RICE 

1 c. rice 3 to 4 c boiling water or 

1 tsp. salt scalded milk 

Put water and salt in top of double boiler, place on range, and add gradually well washed 
rice, stirring with a fork to prevent adhering to boiler. Boil 5 minutes, place over under 
part of double boiler and steam 45 minutes, or imtil kernels are soft. Uncover that steam 
may escape. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

1^ c. scalded milk % c. sugar 3 whites of eggs 

3 yolks of eggs % tsp. salt ^ tsp. vanilla 

Scald the milk, beat the whites imtil stiff. Fold in 2 tbsp. of sugar, and turn them into 
the hot milk and cook 3 minutes. Remove whites with a tablespoon into a serving dish. 
Prepare Custard Sauce. Mix the yolks, sugar and salt in a bowl. Pour the scalded milk in 
which the whites have been cooked into the yolks. Stir while adding. Poui* back into the 
double boiler and cook until a coating is formed on the spoon. Remove immediately; add 
flavoring. Pour around the cooked whites. This may be served with boiled or steamed hqc 
or alone. 

PART n. 




Rice with Pineapples, Walnuts and Whipped Cream 

RICE WITH APPLES OR PINEAPPLE 

2 c. steamed rice % c milk 24teamed or cooked apples 

3 eggs ^ c. sugar or ^ can pineapple 

Pare and- core the apples, cut in eighths and cook until soft. 

Add well beaten yolks of eggs, sugar, milk and cooked apnles cut in small pieces to the 
steamed rice. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and bake 30 Mnutes in a well buttered and 
crumbed baking dish. SERVE WITH CREAM OR FRUIT SAUCE. 

Raisins or dates may be used in place of apples. 



[Page 56] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE [Lbmoo 22A] 

OABBOHTDSATES-SUGAB 

SUGAR IS A SWEET CRYSTALLINE SUBSTANCE AND, LIKE STARCH, IS A CAR 
BOHYDRATE. 

It differs from starch in being soluble in cold water, and in its sweet taste. 

Sugar is obtained from sugar cane, sugar beets, sorghum and sugar maple. 

SUGAR CANES are grown in the Gulf States, Cuba, Hawaiian Islands, East Indies, 
India and in other warm moist countries. They resemble cornstalks, and the s^ngy sub- 
stance between the joints is filled with a sweet juice or sap, from which cane sugar is made. 
Sometimes as many as 75 lbs. of sap are obtained from 100 lbs. of cane. The sap is heated 
in great kettles which causes the water to evaporate, leaving two products, molasses and 
brown sugar.. The brown sugar is then refined by putting it through filters and cylinders 
which contain burned bones (bone black). When the liquid comes out of the bone filter it is 
a clear syrup. This is crystallized and made into Granulated, Loaf, Powdered and Confec 
tioners' Sugar. 

GLUCOSE, OR GRAPE SUGAR, is found in honey, fresh fruit and on the skin of dried 
fruits, such as raisins, dates, etc. Commercial glucose is made from the starch of corn. Sugar 
boiled for any length of time with an acid changes some of it into glucose. 

SUGAR RANKS FIRST AS AN ENERGY GIVING FOOD. It passes quickly into cir 
culation, so it produces energy in a very short time. It forms part of the rations of the 
soldiers of this and other countries. 

SUGAR is a great preservative, hence its use in preserving fruits and milk. 

EATEN AT PROPER TIMES, CANDY IS A USEFUL ARTICLE OF FOOD. It should 
not be eaten to excess nor before meals. If too much is eaten at a time, it is likely to ferment 
in the stomach. Three or four ounces a day may be considered the right amount for an 
adult. 

IN COOKING SUGAR FOR CANDY, use an agate or an iron pan, as it is less liable to 
burn than in tin. 

Butter pans for candy before it is cooked. 

Have ready some cold water in which to test the candy. 

When the candy is poured into the pan, do not scrape the saucepan over it, nor allow any 
of the scrapings to fall into it. 

Scraping or stirring the candy while cooling, after it has been poured into the pan, will 
cause it to become sugary. 

Acid substances like lemon-juice or cream-of-tartar added to the candy while cooking, 
will keep it clear. Temperatures: 

232 to 242 deg. F. — Soift balL 345 deg. — Caramelization point. 

248 deg. F.— Hard baa 

NOTES: 

it.* 



[Lesson 22B] CANDY [Page 67] 




PEANUT CANDY 

2 c. sugar 1 qt. peanuts ^ tsp. salt '? 

SHELL, remove skins, and finely chop peanuts. Sprinkle with the salt. Put sugar into a 
perfectly smooth pan. Place on the range and stir until sugar is melted, taking care to 
keep the sugar from the sides. Add the nut mea^ and pour at once into the buttered pans. 

PINOCHE 

2 c. brown sugar 4 tbsp. butter 15 drops vanilla 

^ c. milk 1 c. nut meats 

BOIL the first three ingredients until a soft ball can be formed in cold water. 

Remove from fire, cool, add nut meat and vanilla, and beat until creamy. 

Pour into buttered pans. Cut in squares. 

The butter may be omitted and one cup of milk used in place of the % cupful. 

SEA FOAM 

2 c. sugar % c. corn syrup Whites two eggs 

% c. boiling water % c. chopped nut meats . % tsp. vanilla 

BOIL first three ingredients until a hard ball can be formed in cold water, or until it 
spins a four inch thread. Pour syrup gradually into the stiffly beaten whites of eggs; add 
nut meats; beat until creamy; pour into a buttered pan to cool. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

xy^ c. sugar 2 tsp. butter % tsp. vanilla 

% c. milk 1 sq. Baker's chocolate 

BOIL first four ingredients until a soft ball can be formed when tried in cold water. 

Remove from fire and let stand 10 minutes. Beat until the mixture thickens; add vanilla. 

Pour quickly into a buttered pan. Cool and cut in squares. 

FRENCH CREAM 

1 egg white % tbsp. cold water 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 lb. confectioner's suglir 
MIX the ^^^ white, cold water and vanilla. Beat until thoroly mixed. Add gradually the 
sifted sugar to the liquid until the mixture is stiff enough to knead. It may be used instead 
of fondant, for creamed walnuts, dates and almonds. 

TAFFY 

1% c. light brown sugar 1 c. molasses % tsp. soda 

1 tbsp. butter 
BOIL together the first three ingredients until when tried in cold water it will form a 
hard ball. Add the soda, and pour into a. buttered pan. Pull when slightly cool. 



[Page 58] 



BASIC PRINGIPLES OF DOMESTIC SGIENCB 



[Leuon 23A]j 



WHEAT 

Wheat ia a Cereal frown in Rniaia, United Statea, France, India, Anatxla, Argentine, etc* 
One-iif th of the whole worki'a crop ia now raiaed in the United Statea. i 

MinneapoUa ia the freateat flour center in the world. \ 

Moat of the bread fiour made from Spring Wheat ia ground in Minneapolis and IXduthJ 

while the pastry flour made from Winter Wheat ia ground in St. Louis. ' 

Wheat haa flve times as much proteid, the tissue-building matter, and three times as 

much carbohydrate, the heat and energy giving matter, as the same quantity of potato. 




A Grain of Wheat 

A Grain of Wheat consists of— 

1. An outer covering or husk, which is always removed before milling. 

2. Bran coats which contain mineral matter. 

3. Gluten, the proteid matter. 

4. Starch, the center and largest part of the grain. 

Lying next to it is the tiny germ which contains the fat or oiL 

Wheat ia classed as Spring Wheat and Winter Wheat 

Winter Wheat is planted in the Fall and lies in the ground during the winter, and is 
reaped early the next summer. 

Spring Wheat is planted in the spring and reaped in the fall. 

Spring Wheat contains more gluten and is harder than winter wheat and is used for 
bread flour. It is more economical to use bread flour for making bread, as less flour is 
required. 

Winter Wheat contains proportionately more starch, is softer than Spring Wheat, and is 
used for pastry flour. It is more economical to use pastry flour for pies and cakes, as less 
shortening is needed. 

Macaroni Wheat is harder than the ordinary Spring wheat, contains more gluten, and is 
made into flour used for macaroni and bread making. 

Three kinds of Flour are made from Wheat. 

Graham, Entire or Whole Wheat, and the White Flour. 

Graham Flour contains the entire grain, including the outer bran coats. 

Entire Wheat Flour contains the entire ^in, not including the two outer bran coats. 

White Flour is made by grinding and sifting the grain several times, during which 
process all the bran is removed. 

r Proteid 11.3 

The Average Composition of J Oixbohydrates .74.6 

wheatFionr ^ MinerVrMktteV *::;::.:: i! i!'.: .: i.'.'::::::;:;:;:: 0.5 

V Water 12.5 



*Named in order of amount grown in each country. 

NOTES: 



eason 23B] MACSARONI [Page 59] 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and Vexmicelli are made from Macaroni Wheat Flour. 

The flour is mixed with enough water to make a stiff paste. This paste, which is cut 
to cakes about one foot square and from one to three inches in thickness, is put into a 
sam heated iron cylinder. The bottom of this cylinder has a copper plate filled with holes 
ving the centers filled, and by means of a cover fitted to a screw press, the mixture is 
*ced through as rods, tubes, etc. After these are cut into lengths of about three feet, they 
B hung up to dry for five days before they are packed in boxes .for the market. 

Good macaroni is rough, elastic and hard, of a yellowish color and ngt starchy. 

Macaroni is considered a valuable food, as it is nutritious aril inexpensive. It should, 
wever, be served with cream, butter or cheese to make it a perfect food. In cooking, 
icaroni absorbs three times its weight in water. Therefore it must be cooked in a large 
antity of water. 

BOILED MACARONI 

cup macaroni, broken into inch pieces 
quarts boiling water 
tbsp. salt 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water 20 minutes, or until soft. 

Drain in strainer. Pour over cold water to prevent pieces from adhering. 

MACARONI WITH WHITE SAUCE 
Cook as for Boiled Macaroni, and reheat in 1% cups White Sauce. (Lesson 7B.) 




BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

Put a layer of boiled macaroni in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with prated cheese, 
epeat. Pour over White Sauce, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are 
rown. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Brown 2 tbsp. butter; add 3 tbsp. fioiur, and gradually 1% cups tomato juice which has 
Ben previously cooked with 1 slice onion, 2 cloves; 3 pepper corns and % tsp. salt. 
Reheat boiled macaroni in the tomato sauce. 

MACARONI SALAD 

2 c boiled macaroni cut into ^-inch pieces % c. boiled ham cut into ^-inch cubes. 

% c. sweet pickles cut into small pieces 

Mix and moisten with boiled salad dressing (See Lesson 16B), using only % c. vinegar 
Qd % tsp. mustard. Serve on lettuce leaves, in tomato ciq)s, or garnish with parsley, etc. 

LEFT OVERS OF MEAT may be used with the ''Baked Macaroni" and the ''Macaroni 
rith Tomato Sauee.** 



[Page «0] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE [LeMon M 

FLOUB MIXTUBE8 

MIXTURES of Flour or Metl and Liquid are called batters or doughB, according to 
quantity of liquid used. 

Batter is a mixture of flour and liquid thin enough to be beaten. 

Pour Batter is a thin batter— 1 meas. liquid to 1 meas. flour. Example: Griddle Cal 

Drop Batter is a thick batter — 1 meas. of liquid to 2 meas. of flour. Example: Muffi 

Dough is a mixture of flour and liquid stiff enough to be handled on a board. 

Soft Dough. — 1 meas. liquid to 3 meas. flour. Example: Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Stiff Dough.—! meas. liquid to 4 meas. flour. Example: Pastry. 

The proportions vary according to the flour and liquid used. 

The liquid ingredients include water, milk, moh&sses, eggs, etc. 

The dry ingredients include flour, meal, sugar, salt, spices, baking powder, etc. 

The FATS called "shortening," added to make the mixture tender, include butter, lan 
drippings, suet, chicken fat, etc. 

A mixture of flour and liquid alone when cooked woufd be hard and indigestible. 

Batters and doughs are made "light" or porous by the introduction of a gas which 
expanded by the heat applied during the cooking. 

The gases that aid in making a dough "light'' or porous are air, steam and carbo 
dioxide. 

Air may be introduced into the mixture directly, or may be flrst beaten into eggs ao 
then added to the mixture. (See Lesson 13A.) 

STEAM.— (See Lesson ISA.) 

Carbon dioxide may be formed within the mixture by the action of yeast during fei 
mentation, or it may be set free by chemical action from'^bstances containing the element 
of which it is composed. Example: baking powder. (See Lesson 25A.) 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Sift flour before measuring. 

Put flour by spoonfuls into the cup; do not press or shake down. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. 

Measure dry and then liquid ingredients. Add the liquid to the dry ingredients. 

Shortening may be rubbed or chopped in while cold, or creamed; or it may be melted afl 
then added to dry ingredients, or added after the liquid. 

Use 2 level tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour. ' 

It eggs are used, less baking powder will be required. 

Baking powder mixtures should be handled as little as possible. 

Baking powder mixtures require a hot oven. 

In baking batters and doughs the larger the quantity the lower the temperature must ll 
that the heat may penetrate the interior and expand the gas and harden the albumen aa 
gluten. 

NOTES: 



isson 24B] GRTODLE CAKES— POUR BATTER [Page 61] 

USE A FRYING PAN OR GRIDDLE. 

Keep the pan hot without burning the cakes. 

A piece of fat salt pork or beef .fat placed on a fork, or butter, may be used to grease 
i pan. 

A soapstone or aluminum griddle must never be greased. 

Let the fat begin to smoke before cooking the cakes. 
, Pour the mixture from the tip of the spoon; cook on one side. 

When puffed full of bubbles and cooked on the edges, turn and cook on the other side. 

If large bubbles form at once to the top of the cakes, the griddle is too hot. 

If the top of the cake stiffens before the under side is cooked, the griddle is not hot 

DUgh. 

Never turn a cake twice. 

Remove all scraps and wipe pan after each set of cakes are cooked. 

Grease pan and repeat. 

Serve griddle cakes as soon as cooked. 

SOUR mLK GRIDDLE CAKES 

c. flour 2 c. sour milk % tsp. salt 

tsp. soda 1 egg 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add sotu* milk and egg well beaten. 

Cook according to general directions. 




WHOLE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

I c. entire wheat flour % tsp. salt 1 egg 

c. flour 3 tbsp. sugar 1^ c. milk 

tsp. or 1 tbsp. baking powder 1 tbsp. melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk and well beaten egg slowly. 

Beat and add butter. Cook according to general directions. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

^ c stale bread crumbs 2 tbsp. butter % c. flour 

^ c. scalded milk 3^ tsp. baking powder ^ tsp. salt 

2 eggs 
Add milk and butter to crumbs and soak until crumbs are soft. Add eggs well beaten, 
len flour, salt and baking powder mixed and sifted. Beat. Cook as other griddle cakes. 

LEMON SYRUP 

1 c. sugar Ys c. water 1 tbsp. lemon juice 1 tsp. butter 

Boil sugar and water 5 minutes. Remove from fire, stir in lemon juice and butter. 
Serve at once. 

WAFFLES 
94 c. flour 3 tsp. or 1 tbsp. baking % c. milk 

tbsp. sugar powder 3 tbsp. melted butter 

tsp. salt 2 well beaten eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add eggs, milk and melted butter. Mix. Beat tlioroly. 
Cook in well greased waffle irons. 



[Page 62] BASIC PRINCIPLBS OF DOMESTIC BCUSSCB [Lesson SSij 



BAKING POWDER 

BADNG POWDER contains the •ubstaaces used to produce carbon dioxide (COS) 

The BubstanceB are an allcaline: ex.^ bi-carbonate of soda (cooking soda) and an acid 
ex., cream of tartar, phosphate, etc. These, together with heat and moisture, form the a 
which, in its effort to escape. Alls the mixture with bubbles, making it light and porous. * 

If the mixture is baked, at the right temperatures, while the f^BLB is forming, the hei 
of the oven firmly fixes the expanded bubbles in place and sets the mixture. 

The gluten of the fiour enables the walls of the gas bubbles to become firm. The wall 
become firm sooner in an egg mixture because the albumen coagulates at a low temperatun 

During baking the gas escapes into the air, leaving a small amount of mineral matter i 
the mixture. Example: Rochelle salts, when a cream of tartar baking powder is used. 

Phosphates, when a phosphate baking powder is used. 

Aluminum sulphate when an alum baking powder is used. 

' EXPERIMENTS 

I. Put into a heavy glass % tsp. soda, and % c. boiling water. Mix thoroly. Wha 
happens? 

n. Add to No. I, % tsp. cream tartar. What happens? 
m. Put into a glass % tsp. soda and % tsp. cream of tartar, 
rv. Add to No. ni, 1 tbsp. cold water and stir. What happens? 
V. Add to No. IV, ^, c. boiling water. 

I. Bicarbonate of soda is an alkaline substance and contains carbon dioxide. If N 
water is added it will set free carbon dioxide. 

II. An acid substance like cream of tartar added to No. I will liberate more gas, and i 
the right proportion of acid is used it will set free all the gas, leaving the remaining mixtui^ 
neutral; that is, neither aeid nor alkaline. 

in. A dry mixture of soda and cream of tartar will not liberate the gas. 

IV. Ck)ld water added to No. m liberates gas. i 

V. Boiling water added to No. m causes a rapid escape of the gas. I 
Other acids added to baking soda will liberate the 02 gas in the same way. Example i 

sour milk and soda, molasses and soda. | 

To 1 c sour milk use % tsp. soda. 
To 1 c. molasses use 1 tsp. soda.) 

HOW TO PREPARE BAKING POWDER 

One-half pound bicarbonate of soda. 

One pound and two ounces cream of tartar. 

One-quarter pound com starch. I 

Free the soda from lumps; add to it the cornstarch, and sift six times. Add the creao 
of tartar and sift six times. Put into tin boxes and keep tightly covered. 

There is enough moisture in the air to start the action of the powder, so a little conv 
starch is added to take up this moisture and keep the powder dry. 

I 

NOTES: 



leBSon 25B] 



MUFFINS 



[Fttge 68] 



GSNBSAL DIRECTIONS.— Measure, mix and sift dry ingredients. Add well beaten 
gy milk, and shortening melted. Beat vigoronsly. Half fill well greased muffin tins. Bake 
a hot oven 20 or 30 minutes. 

NOTE. — ^By measuring dry ingredients first, then liquids and fat, you need only use one 
ip. When milk and eggs are used, rinse egg from bowl with milk. 







PLAIN MUFFINS 



1 c. milk 

2 to 4 tbsps. melted butter 



c. flour 4 tsp. baking powder 

tbsp. sugar ^ tsp. salt 

1 or 2 eggs 

Mix according to directions. If two em are used, less baking powder is required. If a 
icher muffin is desired, use cranberry muffin recipe, omitting the berries. 



GRAHAM MUFFINS 

^ c. graham fiour 4 tsp. baking powder 

i c. flour 1 tsp. salt 

i c. sugar 1 egg 

Mix according to directions. 



1 c. milk 

1 to 2 tbsps. melted butter 



OATMEAL MUFFINS 



4 tsp. baking powder 
1 egg 



^ c. rolled oats % tsp. salt 

c. scalded milk 2 tbsp. melted butter 

tbsp. sugar 1% c. flour 

Add scalded milk to the rolled oats. Let stand 5 minutes. Add sugar, salt and melted 
►utter. 

Sift in flour and baking powder; mix thoroly; add well beaten egg. Drop into buttered 
nufiin tins. Bake. 



CORN MEAL GEMS 

4 c. com meal 3 tsp. baking powder 

tbsp sugar % tsp. salt 

^ c. flour 1 c milk 

Scald one-half the milk, then pour over the com meal; add the butter, salt and sugar. 
Let stand until cool. Add the yolk, remaining milk and the sifted flour and baking powder. 
Beat thoroly, and fold in the stiffly beaten white. Bake in greased muffin tins. 



1 egg 

1 to 2 tbsp. melted butter 



CRANBERRY MUFFINS 

^ c. butter % c. milk 

14 c sugar 2 c. sifted flour 

L egg 4 tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter, add sugar, well beaten egg, and milk, then the flour sifted with the 
B. P. Add berries, drop into muffin pans, and bake. If the berries are omitted, rich, plain 
mnffins ar* the result. 



1 c. berries (sprinkled with 
2 tbsp. sugar) 



[Page 64] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 261] 



OOBN 

Corn is a native of Ameriea. 

It is claimed that there ib more CORN raised in the United States than any other cereal 

It is a native of America and Mexico. 

"V^th the exception of OATS, com is considered the richest in fat of all the cereals. 

The germ in the com is proportionately large and rich in fat. It becomes rancid easily 
and is therefore often removed in the preparation of com meal. This, of course, reduces 
the food value of the meal. 

It is deficient in gluten and salts, and should therefore be eaten with foods containing 
gluten and mineral matter. 

It is a very valuable food, especially in winter. WhyT 

There are three kinds of Com: Field Com, Sweet Com, and Popcorn. 

From the Field Com we get corn meal, cornstarch, com oil, com syrup, etc 

Broken grains of com are known as hominy. 

Sweet Com is eaten as a vegetable in the form of green corn (see Lesson 4B) ; for cream 
soups (see Lesson llB); for com souffle, scalloped corn, com oysters, etc. (see Lesson 6B). 

Popcorn is a dwarf variety of field com. When it is exposed to heat it swells and pops 
into a soft, white fiuffy form. This is a delicious, wholesome food, and may be served with 
cream of com soup. 

Corn meal is used in making Corn-cake (Lesson 26B), Muffins (Lesson 25B), Griddle 
cakes (Lesson 24B), Steamed Bread (Lesson 57B), etc. 

White flour is usually added to com mixtures, as the gluten in the flour helps to hold 
the expanded bubbles in place. 

It is difficult to make a good light corn-cake without adding the white flour. 

Total and Dicastlble Nutrients and Fuel Value of Cereals from "Human Foods" 
By Barry Snyder, B. 8. 





Total Nutrients 


Digestible Nutrients 


KIND OF FOOD 


Water 


Pro. 


Fat 


C.H. 


Ash 


Pro. 


Fat 


C.H. 


Ash 


Fuel 




N.F. 
Ext. 


Fiber 


Value 
per lb. 


OAT PREPARA- 
TIONS: 

Oats, whole grun.... 

Oatmeal, raw 

Rolled, steam cooked 
WHEAT: 

Whole irmin 


% 

U.O 
7.8 
8.2 

10.5 
10.1 
10.6 
8.1 
5.6 
10.9 

11.6 

11.1 

10.9 
11.5 

13.6 

10.9 
11.6 
12.5 
10.9 
4.3 
74.1 

12.3 
7.1 
6.8 

10.3 


% 

11.8 
16.1 
16.1 

11.9 
11.1 
10.2 
10.6 
12.2 
11.0 

10.6 

10.0 

12.4 
8.5 

6.4 

10.5 

8.4 

9.2 

■ 8.6 

10.7 
2.3 

6.9 
6.2 
10.7 
13.4 


% 

5.0 
7.2 

7.4 

2.1 
1.7 
1.8 
1.4 
1.0 
1.4 

1.7 

1.4 

1.8 
1.1 

1.2 

5.4 

4.7 
1.9 
0.6 
5.0 
0.9 

0.3 
0.6 
8.8 
0.9 


% 

59.7 
66.6 
65.2 

71.9 
73.8 
74.1 
76.0 
77.6 
75.9 

72.5 

75.8 

60.8 

77.5 

77.5 

69.6 
74.0 
74.4 
79.2 
77.3 
22.2 

80.0 
85.7 
71.4 
74.1 


% 

9.5 
0.0 
1.3 

1.8 
1.7 
1.8 
2.1 
1.7 
0.4 

1.7 

2.7 
0.3 

0.4 

2.1 

1.0 
0.4 
1.4 

0.5 


% 

3.0 
1.9 
1.8 

1.8 
1.6 
1.5 
1.8 
1.9 
0.4 

1.9 

1.7 

2.4 
1.1 

0.9 

1.5 
1.3 
1.0 
0.3 
1.3 
0.5 

0.5 
0.4 
1.8 
1.3 


% 


% 


% 


% 


Caloriei 


12.5 
12.5 


6.5 
6.7 


65.5 
64.5 


1.4 
1.4 


1767 
1759 


Cracked wheat 

Rolled, steam cooked 

Shiedded wheat 

Crumbed and malted 
Farina 


8.1 
8.5 
7.7 
9.1 
8.9 


1.5 
1.6 
1.3 
0.9 
1.3 


68.7 
70.7 
71.1 
73.7 
72.9 


1.2 
1.1 
1.4 
1.4 
0.3 


1501 
1541 
1521 
1623 
1609 


RYE: 

Whole ffrain 




Flaked, to be eaten 
raw 


7.8 




1.3 


71.1 


1.3 


1526 


BARLEY: 
Whole ffrain 




Pearled barley 

BUCKWHEAT: 

Flour 


6.6 
5.0 


1.0 
1.1 


73.0 
73.1 


0.8 
0.7 ■ 


1514 
1471 


CORN: 

Whole grain 

Commeal. unbolted. 
Com meal, bolted... 
Hominy. ............ 




6.2 
6.8 
6.4 
7.9 
1.7 

5.8 
5.1 
9.1 
11.6 


4.2 
1.7 
0.5 
4.5 
0.8 

0.3 
0.5 
7.9 
0.8 


73.2 
74.6 
78.7 
77.8 
21.8 

78.4 
84.0 
70.5 
72,2 


1.0 
0.8 
0.2 
1.0 
0.4 

. 0.4 
0.3 
1.4 
1.0 


1728 
1662 
1671 


Popcorn, popped... 
Hulled com. , 


1882 
492 


RICE: 

Whole rice, polished. 
Puffed rice 


1546 
1639 


Crackers 


1906 


Macaroni 


1660 



Lesson 26B] CORN CAKES [Page 65] 




CORN CAKE 

4 c. commeal Scant 1% tbsp. baking powder 1 egg 

c. flour % tsp. salt 1 to 3 tbsp. melted butter 

14 c. sugar 1 c. milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg well beaten, milk and the melted butter. Beat. 
Bake in a shallow buttered pan in a hot oven 20 minutes or more. 

RICH CORN CAKE 

L c. corn meal V4 c. sugar 1 c. milk 

[ c. white flour 4 tsp. baking powder ^ q. melted butter 

Y2 tsp. salt 2 eggs 

Mix and bake according to flrst recipe. 

SOUR CREAM CORN CAKE 

^ c. corn meal 1 tbsp. sugar 1 c. sour cream 

)i c. flour ^ tsp. salt 1 egg 

% tsp. soda 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add well beaten egg and cream. Bake in a well buttered 
pan 20 to 30 minutes. 

SOUR MILK CORN CAKE 

1 c. corn meal Vs tsp. salt 1% c. thick sour milk 

1 c. flour 1 tsp. soda 2 tbsp. butter (melted) 

2 tbsp. sugar 1 well beaten egg 

Combine ingredients and bake according to Recipe 1. 

VIRGINIA PONE 

1 c. white com meal 1% tsp. salt 2 c. milk 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 c. hot boiled hominy 2 eggs 

Add butter and milk to hominy and cool. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; stir into the hominy and add the beaten eggs. 
Put into a buttered earthen dish and bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. 
Cut in triangular pieces and serve. 



[Pag© 66] 



BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 27AJ 



APPBOZmATE MEASURE OP ONE POUND 



4 cups of flour 

4 cups entire wheat flour 

2% cups com meal. 

2% cups oat meal 

6 dups rolled oats 

^Va cups rye meal 

2 cups rice 

2 cups granulated sugar 

2% cups brown sugar 



2% cups powdered sugar 

3^ cups confectioners' sugar 

2 cups milk 

2 cups butter 

2 cups flnely chopped suet 

2 cups chopped meat 

3 cups raisins 
4% cups coffee 

9 medium sized eggs 



If tbsp. be substituted for cups the weight will be about one ounce. 



TIUE TABLE FOB BAKING BATTEB8 AND DOUaHS 



Mufllns, 12 to 25 minutes 
Gingerbread, 25 to 45 minutes 
B. P. Biscuits, 12 to 15 minutes 
Cookies, 6 to 15 minutes 
Layer Cake, 12 to 20 minutes 



Raised biscuit, 12 to 30 minutes 
Loaf Cake, 40 to 60 minutes 
White bread, 45 to 60 minutes 
Rye bread, 60 minutes 
Beaten bread, 45 to 60 minutes 



NOTES: 



[Lesson 27B] 



GINGERBREAD 



[Page 67] 




1 c. molasses 

V2 c. boiling water 



HOT WATER GINGERBREAD 



% tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. melted butter 



2 to 2% c. flour 
1 tsp. soda 
1% tsp. ginger 

Add water to molasses. Mix and sift dry ingredients, 
and beat vigorously. Pour into a greased pan, or muffin tins, and bake 25 minutes in a 
moderate oven. One well-beaten egg may be added to the liquids. 



C!ombine mixtures. Add butter 



1 tsp. soda 
14 c. sour milk 



SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD 

% c. molasses % tsp. salt 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. to ^ c. melted butter 

2 tsp. ginger 

Mix soda with sour milk, and add molasses. Sift remaining dry ingredients. Combine 
mixtures. Add butter and beat vigorously. Pour into greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 



% c. thick sour cream 

l^ c. molasses 

^ c. granulated sugar 



SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD 



2 eggs 
2 c. flour 
% tsp. soda 



1 tsp. 

2 tsp. 



ginger 
cinnamon 



Beat together the eggs, sugar and molasses. Add half the cream. Dissolve the soda in 
the remaining half and add to the liquids. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Combine mix- 
tures and beat until smooth. Pour into a greased tin, and bake 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 



FAIRY GINGERBREAD 

14 c. butter % c. milk 2 tsp. ginger 

1 c. light brown sugar 1% c. bread flour 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and milk very slowly. Mix and sift the flour and 
ginger. Combine mixtures and mix with a knife until smooth. Spread very thinly on a 
buttered inverted pan or on a baking sheet. Bake in a moderate oven. Cut in squares 
before removing from pan. 

NOTE. — ^Mixtures containing a large amount of molasses or sugar bum easily and should 
be baked in a moderate oven. 



[Page 68] BASIC PRINCIFLES OF DOMESTIC SGEENCE [Lesson 28A] 

OABX 

Cake may be diyided' into Two Classes: 

Without Butter. — Example: Sponge Cake, Angels Food, Sunshine Cake. 

With Butter. — Example: Cup and Pound Cake. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

See that the fire is right. 

Have materials and utensils ready, including a plate on which to lay sticky spoons, etc. 

Butter the pans; buttered paper may be used to line the pans or the pans may be but- 
tered and then sprinkled with flour. 

Measiure dry ingredients, then liquid. 

C^am the butter with a wooden spoon in an earthen bowl which may be warmed 
slightly. 

Beat the yolks with a Dover egg-beater. 

Beat the whites with a spider-web or a Dover egg-beater. 

FUl pans two-thirds full with the cake mixture. 

Sponge cake requires a more moderate oven than cake made with butter. 

Cake is done when it shrinks from the sides of the pan, or when a clean broom straw 
put into the center comes out clean, or when pressed lightly with tip of finger the cake 
springs back into place. 

1 
TESTS FOR TEMPERATURE OF OVEN 

If a piece of letter paper turns a deep yellow in 5 minutes, the oven is right for cake I 
made with butter. 

The same test may be used for sponge cake, the paper turning a light yellow in 5 minutes.! 
The time may be divided into four periods: 

1. Rise and not brown. 

2. Continue to rise and brown in spots. 

3. Light brown. 

4. Deeper brown and shrink from sides of pan. 

TO REMOVE CAKES FROM PANS I 

After allowing the baked cake to remain in the pan about 3 minutes, invert pans, on a 
board covered with a piece of old linen. , 

If cake sticks to the pan, place a damp cloth on the bottom of pan for a few minutes, i 

NOTE — If bread flour is used in place of pastry flour, take 2 tbsp. less for each cup. i 

Cover baking powder can, sugar jar, flour bin, etc., as soon as you have measured the 

necessary quantities. i 

NOTE 1 



[Liesson 28B] 



^ CAKES 



[Page 69] 




QUICK CAKE 

1% c. bread flour \ 

3 tap. baking powder I 

% tsp. cinnamon f "^^^ ^^^ "^^ 

^ tsp. nutmeg ) % lb. dates or % c. raisins 

Put ingredients in bowl in order given and do not stir until all have been added. 
Beat for three minutes. Bake in a buttered or greased pan from 35 to 45 minutes. May be 
baked in muffin tins. 



% c. soft butter 
IVa c. brown sugar 
2 eggs 
% c. milk 



CREAM CAKES 

2 eggs 1% c. flour % tsp. mace 

1 c. sugar ^ tsp. salt % tsp. ginger 

% c. cream % tsp. cinnamon 2^^ tsp. baking powder 

Drop unbeaten contents of eggs into a bowl, add the sugar and cream, beat vigor- 
ously. Mix and sift remaining dry ingredients, add to the first mixture, beat until well 
mixed. Bake in a shallow pan or in small muffin tins. 

NUT LOAF CAKE 

^ c. butter 1% c. flour 1 c. nut meat 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder ^ tsp. vanilla 

% c. milk 3 egg whites (large) 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, stirring until creamy between each addition. 
Mix and sift the flour and baking powder, add half of it and the milk, stir until thoroly 
blended; add the remaining flour, nut meat and vanilla, beat until thoroly mixed. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in a buttered loaf tin for about 40 minutes. 



CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE 



2 squares chocolate (melted) 
and mixed with Va c. boil- 
ing water 



^ c. butter 1 tsp. vanilla 

1% c. sugar 2 c. flour 

4 eggs 4 tsp. baking powder 

1^ c. milk % tsp. salt 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, add well beaten eggs, measure, mix and 
sift the flour, baking powder and salt, add % of it and the milk, beat until thoroly mixed. 
Add the remaining flour, chocolate mixture, and vanilla. Beat thoroly until well mixed. 
Bake in a buttered and paper lined large loaf in a tin about 45 minutes or until thoroly baked. 



[Page 70] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [LeBSon 29A] 

GOMPABATIVE 008T OF FOODS USED IN BATTEB8 AND DOUGHS 

BOUGHT IN SICALL AND LARGE QUANTITIES 

Article Price for small quantity Price for large quantity 

Bread flour 05c. per lb 85c. per 24% lb. sack 

Pastry flour 09c. per lb. 25c. per 3 lb. pkg. 

Whole wheat flour 04c. per lb 35c. per 10 lb. sack 

Graham flour 04c. per lb 35c. per 10 lb. sack 

Com meal 15c. per 3 lb. sack 35c. per 10 lb. sack 

Oat meal 02c. per lb. in bulk 10c. per 1% lb. pkg. 

Rice 05c. to 12c. per lb 

Cornstarch 08c. to 10c. per lb. pkg 

Soda 05c. per % lb. pkg 10c. per lb. 

Baking powder .15c. to 25c. per % lb &fc. to 40c. per lb. 

Salt ^05c. per 3 lb. sack 

Sugar 06c. per lb $1.40 per 25 lbs. 

Brown sugar 06c. per lb $1.40 per 25 lbs. 

Powdered sugar 10c. per lb 25c. per 3 lbs. 

Loaf sugar 10c. per lb 25c. per 3 lbs. 

Butter 20c. to 38c. per lb. 

Lard 10c. to 18c. per lb. 

Oottolene 30c. per 3 lbs. 

Butterine 14c. to 25c. per lb. 

Oleomargarine 14c. to 25c. per lb. 

Eggs 16c. to 40c. per doz. 

* Milk 06c. to 8c. per qt. 

Coffee cream 20c. per qt. 

Whipping cream 40c. per qt. 

Cloves, ground or whole 40c. per lb. 

Ginger 40c. per lb. 

Cinnamon, grd. or whole 40c. per lb. 

Vanilla 35c. per 2 oz 65c. per 4 oz. 

Molasses 25c. per qt. 

NOTES: 



/ 



«s8on 29B] BAKING POWDER BISCUIT MIXTURES [Page 71] 




c. flour % tsp. salt About % c. milk 

tap. baking powder 1 to 2 tbsp. shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Rub in shortening with tips of fingers, or chop in with a. 
:nife.' Add milk gradually to make a soft dough. Use a knife in mixing. Toss on a well- 
loured board. Pat and roll out to one inch thickness. Cut with a biscuit cutter dipped 
u flour. Place close together on a greased pan. Bake in a hot oven for 10 to 15 minutes. 

DUMPLINGS FOR STEWS 

Follow the directions for biscuits, using only 2 tsp. shortening. Place the dough by 
pooufuls on the top of a boiling stew. Cover and boil 12 minutes without removing the 
over. 

QXnCK BISCmTS 

Add to the ingredients for biscuits enough more milk to make a thick batter (about 
I tbsp.); drop by spoonfids onto a well greased pan, half an inch apart. The mixture 
hould not be soft enough to spread. Bake in a hot oven. 

TEA CAKES 

Add to the dry ingredients for biscuits 4 tbsp. of sugar. Mix and beat. Bake in 
preased mufSn tii^25 to 30 minutes. One egg may be added, using 2 tbsp. less milk. 

BLUEBERRY CAKES 
Make as directed for tea cakes, adding 1 c. of blueberries to the dry ingredients. 

PIN WHEEL BISCUIT 

I c. flour % tsp. salt % c. stoned raisins, finely chopped 

I tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. citron, finely chopped 

I tsp. baking powder % c. milk % tsp. cinnamon 

Mix as baking powder biscuit mixture. Roll to ^-inch thickness, brush with melted 
butter and sprinkle with fruit, sugar and cinnamon. Roll like jelly roll; cut off pieces 
% inch thick. Place pieces on a buttered tin and bake in a hot oven about 15 minutes. 



[Pftge 72] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 30A] 

TEA8T 

TEAST is a small microscopic plant, wMch grows by budding. 

Yeast grows in sprouting grains, finding in them favorable soil for growth. 

The yeast plants are obtained from distilleries (explain). 

Three kinds of yeast are used in bread- making: Liquid, Dry and Compressed. 

Compressed yeast is probably the most frequently used. 

In Compressed yeast the plants are mixed with potato starch and are pressed into cakes 
These are cut into smaller cakes and are wrapped in tin foil to keep them moist and clean 

Food, air, heat And moisture are necessary for the growth of the yeast plant. Oxygen 
some nitrogenous matter, salts or mineral matter and carbohydrates, especially sugary sub 
stances, are needed for its growth. The most favorable temperature is between 70 deg. aik 
90 deg. F. Cold checks the growth, while heat (130 deg. F. or more) will kill the plant. 

EXPERIMENTS 

Mix 2 tbsp. flour, 1^ tbsp. sugar and 1 yeast cake which has been mixed with % e 
cold water. Pour this into three tumblers, A, B, and C. 

No. I. To A add ^ c. boiling water. Let stand 15 minutes. Note results. 

^o. n. To B add % c. luke warm water. Let stand 15 minutes in a warm place. 
Note results. 

No. ni. To C add ^ c. cold water. Let stand 15 minutes in a cold place (32 deg. F.)< 
Note results. 

No. IV. Put C aside and let stand in a warm place one hour. Note results. 

When yeast is mixed with flour and a lukewarm liquid and kept in a warm place the 
action of the yeast changes the starch of the flour into sugar and then into alcohol and 
carbon dioxide. This process is known as FERMENTATION. I 

The production of this carbon dioxide and alcohol is gradual, and as it forms, the dougfl 
is filled with bubbles (rises), and the elastic gluten of the flour gives to the dough its powei 
to stretch and rise, as the gas expands, making the dough light and porous. 

If fermentation is allowed to continue long, or at too high a temperatiu'e, so much alcohol 
is formed that the yeast stops growing and bacteria begin to grow; the alcohol unites with 
oxygen plus bacteria and the dough becomes sour. j 

When bread is baked the yeast plants are killed, the alcohol and carbon dioxide arc 
driven off, the starch is cooked and a delicious flavor is developed. , 

NOTES: I 



ILesBon SOB] 



SHORT-CAKE MIXTUR: 



HS 



[Page 73] 




SHORT CAKE NO. 1 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. sugar M c. shortening 

4 tap. B. P. % tsp. salt About % c. milk 

Mix as B. P. biscuit dough (in Lesson 29B). Divide the dough into two equal parts. 
Shape one to fit a shallow buttered tin. Brush the top of the dough with melted butter, 
shape and place the second portion of dough over the first. Bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. 
SpUt. Put crushed and sweetened fruit on one half. Place the other half over it. More fruit 
may be placed on top. Strawberries, peaches, or stewed fruit may be used. Serve with 
whipped cream, if liked. 



2 c. flour 
4 tsp. B. P. 



SHORT CAKE NO. 2 

V2 tsp. salt 
14 c. sugar 
^ c. butter 



1 egg 

About % c. milk 



Mix same as Short Cake No. 1, adding the well beaten egg to the milk. 

APPLE JOHN 

Put stewed apple or other fruit sweetened and seasoned into a buttered pudding dish. 

Cover the fruit with a short cake dough mixture and bake in a hot oven 20 to 30 
minutes. 

Invert onto the serving dish, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Serve. 



FRUIT DUMPLINGS 

Make a dough according to Short Cake Recipe No. 1 or 2, using a little less milk. Pat 
and roll it % in. thick. Cut into squares large enough to cover an apple or other fruit, 
which should have been steamed ten minutes if canned fruit is not used. Place fruit in the 
middle of the square piece of dough, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon or nutmeg. Moisten the 
edges of the dough with cold water, and fold so that the corners will meet in the center. 
Press edges together gently. Place on a greased pan and bake in a rather hot oven until the 
crust and fruit are cooked. These may be steamed. Serve with lemon sauce (Lesson 9B). 



[Page 74] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [LeMon 31A] i 

GENERAL DIRE0TI0N8 FOB MAKINO BEEAD 

THAT KSQUIRSS NO KNEADING 

The liquids used may be water, potato-water, milk, or milk and water. 

Milk makes a more tender loaf of bread than water. 

Yeast acts more quickly if a little sugar or glucose is added at first. 

Salt and fats hinder the growth of yeast. 

The water should be boiled. The milk should be scalded. 

The hot liquids should be added to the salt, sweetening and shortening. This should be 
cooled before the yeast mixture is added. 

One-quarter yeast cake is usually allowed to 1 pt. liquid if mixture is to rise over night. 

One-half yeast cake is usually allowed to 1 pt. liquid if mixture is set in the morning. 

One yeast cake is usually allowed to 1 pt. liquid if mixture is set in the morning and 
a quick process is required. 

The mixture should be beaten thoroly to mix the ingredients and to enclose air. 

The mixture should be covered to prevent a crust from forming. It should be put into a 
warm place, about 70 deg., until enough gas is formed to make it rise to double its bulk. 
It should be beaten the second time to distribute the gas bubbles evenly, and to make a 
fine-grained loaf. Well greased pans should be half filled with the mixture. 

The mixture should rise in the pan until double its bulk and no more, and then be baked 
in a hot oven 45 minutes, or until brown on all sides, and until a hollow sound can be pro- 
duced when the loaf is tapped with the finger. In baking a temperature of 400 to 450 deg. 
is required. 

When baked, loaves should be placed so that air can circulate freely around them until 
cooled. They should be put away unwrapped in a tin box or stone jar. 

NOTES: 



Bsson 31B] 



BREAD MAKING 



[Page 75] 




WHOLE WHEAT BREAD NO 1 



c. boiling water, or 

1 c. scalded milk and 1 c. boiling water 
tbsp. butter 
tsp. salt 

c. sugar^ or 

l^ c. molasses 



M yeast cake, mixed with 

2 tbsp. lukewarm water (over night) or 
1 yeast cake mixed with % c. lukewarm 
water if mixed in the morning. 
1% c. white flour 
3% c. whole wheat flour 
Add salt, butter and sweetening to the hot liquid ; cool, and when lukewarm add the yeast 
ke mixture and flour. Beat well, cover and let rise to double its bulk. Again beat vigor- 
isly, half filled greased bread pans with the mixture. Let rise until double its bulk. Bake 
a hot oven 45 minutes. This mixture may be baked in gem pans. 



WHOLE WHEAT BREAD NO. 2 

c. scalded milk 1 yeast cake mixed with 

, c. sugar or y^ c. molasses ^ c. lukewarm water 

tsp. salt 4% c. coarse whole wheat flour 

Follow directions for Whole Wheat Bread No. 1. 



^ c. hot liquid (milk, water or 

water and milk) 
I c. molasses 
^ tsp. salt 



GRAHAM BREAD 

y^ yeast cake mixed with % c. luke- 



warm liquid 
3 c. flour 
3 c graham flour 



Follow directions for Whole Wheat Flour. 



3. boiling water 

1 c. molasses 

2 tbsp. salt 
tbsp. butter 



ROLLED OATS BREAD 

% yeast cake mixed with 
% c. lukewarm water 
1 c. rolled oats 
4% c. flour 



Add boiling water to oats and let stand 1 hour. Add molasses, salt, butter, yeast 
ike mixture and flour. Let rise to double its bulk, beat thoroly, turn into buttered bread 
ans; let rise again and bake 45 minutes. 

YEAST MUFFINS 

c. scalded milk % yeast cake mixed with % cup luke- 

c. boiling water warm water 

tbsp. butter 1 egg, beaten 

tsp. salt 4 c. flour 

i c. sugar 

Add salt, butter and sugar to the hot liquid. When lukewarm, add the yeast mixture. 
Ldd the beaten egg and the flour. Beat thoroly. Cover and let rise over night (if % yeast 
ake is used) or until double its bulk. Again beat and half fill mufiin pans. Let rise again 
in til pans are full. Bake in a hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. 



i 



[Page 76] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 3: 

SANDWICHES 1 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS I 

Formerly a sandwich meant two slices of bread with meat between. Now the teri 
sandwich is applied to many different kinds of encased dainties. 

The Bread used for making Sandwiches should be at least a day old, that it may a 
cut properly. The bread may be white or brown; ex., white, whole wheat, rye, oatmei 
or steamed brown bread. | 

The butter should be creamed, so that it may be spread easily. Cream the butter witl 
a wooden spoon. ' 

A very sharp knife should be used, so that the slices may be cut as thinly and evenlj 
as possible. 

Cut end slice from bread. Spread end of loaf with butter. Cut slice. Repeat, until thi 
required number of slices have been cut. i 

Spread half the number of slices with the mixture used for filling; cover with tb 
remaining slices and cut in squares, oblongs, triangles, etc. 

If fancy cutters are used, shape before spreading, that no butter may be wasted. 

If the sandwiches are prepared several hours before they are served, they may be kep 
fresh and moist by wrapping them in a dampened napkin, and leaving them in a cool plao^ 
Parafl&n paper is often used for the same purpose. , 

Chopped eggs, chicken, veal, celery, olives or nuts mixed with salad dressing, make vei 
good filling for sandwiches. 

Salted meats make good filling for sandwiches. 

The meat may be sliced, when it should be cut across the grain and in as thin slici 
as possible. 

The meat may be chopped. The addition of a little mustard, Worcestershire or horse 
radish sauce is good with beef or tongue. Capers, catsup, mint or tomato sauce is gooi 
with lamb. 

Chopped peppers, celery salt, or finely chopped celery is good with chicken or veaL 

Lemon juice, onion juice or chopped parsley is good with fish. 

Cress, cabbage, cucumbers, pimentoes or olives may be chopped and added to a salai 
dressing alone or with meat for filling. 

Uncooked fruit fillings may be used. Dates or figs with nuts make very good sand 
wich filling. 

Garnish the serving dish with parsley, lemon, celery tips, water cress, nasturtium leavel 
and blossoms, etc. 

Coffee is the most desirable beverage to serve with sandwiches, then tea, and lastl] 
cocoa, or chocolate, which should only be served with the dainty sweet sandwiches. 1 




esson 32B] SANDWICHES [Pa«e 77] 




LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Put fresh, clean^ crisp lettuce leaves between buttered slices of graham, brown or white 
read, having a tsp. of Mayonnaise on each leaf. 



CREAM CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Spread buttered brown or graham bread with cream cheese, which has been mixed with 
»utter or cream and chopped olives, pimentoes or nuts, and put a lettuce leaf that has been 
lipped in French Dressing between the slices. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES 

Remove stems and finely chop figs; add a small quantity of water, cook in a double boiler 
intil a paste is formed, then add a few drops of lemon juice. Cool mixture and spread on 
;hin slices of buttered bread. Sprinkle with chopped peanuts, walnuts or pecans, and cover 
with slices of buttered bread. 

Dates and nuts chopped fine and mixed may be used. 



HAM AND EGG SANDWICHES 

Finely chop the ham and hard cooked eggs, mix with a salad dressing and put between 
buttered slices of bread. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Chop hard cooked eggs. Mix them with salad dressing and spread between buttered 
slices of bread. 

SLICED MEAT SANDWICHES 

Put thin slices of meat, which have been cut across the grain, into slices of buttered 
bread; arrange thin slices of pickles, olives, red or green pepper on the meat, cover with a 
slice of buttered bread. 

SALMON SANDWICHES 

Put flaked salmon, mixed with finely chopped pickles and seasoned with salt and pepper, 
between slices of buttered bread. Mayonnaise dressing may be added to the filling. 



[Vmge 78] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMBSTIC SCIENCE [liMson 31 

TEST QUESTIONS 



[Lesson 33B] 



PRACTICE TEST 



[Page 79] 




BREAKFAST 

Menu I 

Baked Apple 

Com Meal Mush Sugar and Cream 

Creamed Chipped Beef on Toast 

Whole Wheat Bread and Butter 

Cocoa 



Menu II 



Cooked Cereal with Dates 
Ham Omelet with Green Pepper Rings 
White Muffins 
Cocoa 



Creamed Potatoes 



COST OF PREPARING ABOVE BREAKFAST FOR SIX PERSONS 
Material Quantity Cost 



[Page 80] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES 0^ DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES— SEMESTER n 



LESSON 19B 



POTATO RECIPES 



% potato 

Boil, rice and mash 

1 potato 

Bake and prepare puffs 



To 1 potato use — 

1 tsp. butter 

2 tsp. hot milk 
% tsp. salt 

Few grains pepper 



OATBIEAL MUSH 

^ c. oatmeal 

Mt c boiling water 

% tsp. salt 



LESSON 903 
COOKED APPLE 

1 apple 

% c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. sugar 



WHEATENA WITH DATES 

3 tbsp. wheatena 

1 tbsp. cold water 
% c. boiling water 

(enough) 
% tsp. salt 

2 dates, cut in pieces 



LESSON 21B 



RICE PUDDING 



4 tbsp. steamed rice 
% yolk, ^, beaten white 
1 tbsp. milk 
1 tbsp. sugar 
% apple, or % slice pine- 
apple, or 4 raisins 



FLOATING ISLAND 

Follow recipe for Custard 
Sauce. 
(Lesson 14B) 



PINOCHE 



1 c. brown sugar 

(packed) 
M: c. milk 
1 tbsp. butter 
8 walnuts 
Few drops vanilla 



LESSON 22B 

SEA FOAM 

1 c. sugar 
^ c. boiling water 
^ c com syrup 
Ys c. nut meats 
1 white of egg 
^ tsp. vanilla 



CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

1 c. sugar 
Vs c. milk 
1 tsp. butter 
% sq. chocolate 
^ tsp. vanilla 



PEANUT CANDY 

1 c. sugar 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

2 sticks macaroni 
2 c. boiling water 



1^ c. peanuts 

LESSON 23B 



% tsp. salt 

1 or 2 tsp. grated cheese 



Few grs. salt 



Sauce to moisten 
2 tbsp. crumbs 



LESSON 24B 



WHOLE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 



1 tbsp. entire wheat flour 

2 tbsp. flour 
% tsp. B. P. 
Few grs. salt 



1 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. beaten egg 
2 tbsp. milk 

% tbsp. melted butter 



BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

3 tbsp. STALE crumbs 

3 tbsp. scalded milk 

1 tsp. butter 

% tsp. B. P. 

1 tbsp. beaten egg 

1 tbsp. flour 

1-16 tsp. salt 



SEMESTER n 



[Page 81] 



PLAIN MUFFINS 



LESSON. S5B 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 



% c. flour 
^ tbsp. sugar 
1 tap. B. P. 
l^ tap. aalt 

1 tbap. beaten egg 
4 tbap. milk 

2 tap. melted butter 



6 tbap. graham flour 
2 tbap. flour 
1 tbap. augar 
1 tap. B. P. 
}i tap. aalt 

1 tbap. beaten egg 
4 tbap. milk 

2 tap. melted butter 



^N CAKS 

3 tbap. com meal 

4 tbap. floor 
1 tbap. augar 



LESSON 26B 



1 tap. B. P. 
Vs tap. aalt 
^ c. or 4 tbap. milk 



1 tbsp. esg 

2 tap. melted butter 



r WATER GINGERBREAD 

2 tbap. molaasea 

1 tbap. boiling water 

4^ tbap. flour 



LESSON 27B 



% tbap. aoda 
% tap. ginger 
^ tap. ^It 



1 tap. butter 
1 tap. beaten egg 



?. BISCUITS 

Vs c. flour 
% tap. B. P. 
Ve tap. aalt 



LESSON 29B 



1 tap. butter 

2% tbap. milk (about) 



Demonatrate Pin Wheel 
Biscuita 



LESSON SOB 

SHORT CAKE NO. 2 

% c flour 
% tap. B. P. 
2 tap. augar 
1-12 tap. aalt 
2 tap. butter 
2 tap. egg 
About 2 tbap. milk 

Enough for 1 layer 



LESSON 31B 

BEATEN BREAD 

2 tbap. milk 
2 tbap. water 

1 tap. butter 
% tap. aalt 

2 tap. (level) molaasea 

3 tbap. flour 

% e. whole wheat flour 

1 yeast cake mixed with 

2 tbap. of the liquid given above. 



IBWICHES 

1 slice bread 

Cut in fancy ahapea 



LESSON 82B 



1 tbap. filHng 
1 tap. butter 



Three or four kinda of 
filling 



NOTES: 



[Pftge 83] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SOENGE 



NOTES: [Page 83] 



[Pftg« 84] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOBiESTIC SCIENCE 



»0T1S: [Page 85] 



[Page 86] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 87] 



[Page 88] BASIC PRIXaPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE 



NOT£S: [Page 80] 



[Page ^] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 91] 



[Page 92] BASIC PRINaPUBa OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 93] 



[Page 94] BASIO PRIKaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 95] 



[Page 96] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE 



NOT£S: [Page 97] 



[Page 98] BASIC PRINGIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 34A] 

ACID AND SALT SUPPLYINO FOODS 

Fruit and Vegetables are the principal sources of acid and salt supplying foods. They are 
also found in fish, meat and cereals. 

The human body includes compounds of lime, potassium, sodium, iron and common salt, 
the latter of which is found in every pj^rt of the body, except the enamel of the teeth. 

Foods containing mineral matter are necessary for the formation of the bones, teeth, 
nails, hair, and also to aid digestion, circulation, etc. 

Phosphorus and lime, which are so necessary in the formation of bones and teeth, are 
found abundantly in the cereals. 

The cereals should, therefore, form an important food in the diet of growing children. 

FRUITS 

Fruits are seed vessels of plants. They contain a large amount of water, 'cellulose, sugar, 
acids and salts. They not only refresh and cool the system, but stimulate the appetite and 
act as blood purifiers. 

The cellulose helps to carry off waste matter. The acids destroy germs in the body. 
People who eat a large amount of fruit ar£ seldom ill. 

Bananas, dates and figs are rich in sugary and starchy substances and form the staple 
food in the countries where they grow. 

Prunes are dried plums. Raisins are dried grapes. 

Eat only sound, ripe fruit. Unripe fruit, or fruit that has been kept a little too long, I 
may be cooked to make it safe for eating. | 

Do not eat acid fruits with milk or cream. 

VEGETABLES. See Lesson 4B. 
GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 

Select fresh, firm and not over- ripe fruit. Prepare the fruit according to kind; remove 
stems, pare, peel, stone or core. 

For canning fruit allow Va of the weight of the fruit in sugar and three cups of water to 
each pound of sugar. Boil the water and sugar five minutes to make a thin syrup; then cook 
a small quantity of the fruit at a time in the syrup until soft. Pack the fruit closely in 
hot sterilized fruit jars (see Lesson 5B), and pour on enough syrup to overflow jars. Use the 
blade of a silver knife to push fruit away from jar to let out the air bubbles. Put on ster- 
ilized covers and fasten securely. 

Preserving Fruit, as ordinarily used, means the cooking of fruit with from % to its own 
weight of sugar with little or no water used, according to the fruit. 

NOTE 

Fruits should be cooked in granite, earthen- ware, or porcelain lined kettles, and silver, 
wooden or granite spoons used. If cooked in tin or iron-ware, poisonous substances may be 
formed. 



[Leaaon 34B] CANNED FRUITS [Pftge 90] 




CANNED PSACHES 

2 c. water 1 lb. sugar 

3 lbs. peaches 8 cloves and few shavings lemon rind (if liked) 

Pour boiling water over peaches^ allow them to stand just long enough to loosen tHh 
skins, so they can be removed easily. 

Bemove skins, cut in halves, and unless cooked at once, drop into enough cold water to 
cover, to prevent discoloration. Add a few peach stones to the boiling syrup. Cook the 
peaches in the syrup until soft, pack them closely in hot sterilized fruit jars, and pour over 
them the boiling syrup. Cover securely. 

Pears, cherries, apples, yellow tomatoes and plums may be canned like the peaches. 
Plums and tomatoes should be pierced with a needle to keep them from bursting. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

4 lbs. strawberries 3 lbs. sugar 3 c. water 

Pick over, wash, drain and hull the berries. Weigh. Boil the sugar and water 15 minutes 
to make a syrup. Fill sterilized jars with the berries, cover with the syrup. Let stand 15 
minutes. Add more fruit. Adjust rubbers and covers. Put on a rest, folded paper, or a 
folded doth in a kettle of cold water. Heat water to boiling point, and cook slowly one hour. 
Screw on covers securely. 

Raspberries and Blackberries may be preserved in the same way. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES 

8 lbs. fruit % lb. ginger root 1 oz. stick cinnamon 

5 c. vinegar 4% lbs. sugar % oz. whole cloves 

Prepare fruit as for canning. Boil the vinegar, add sugar and the seasonings (tied in a piece 
of cheese cloth) 10 minutes. Cook the peaches, a few at a time, in the syrup until soft. Put 
fruit into sterilized jars, fill to overflowing with syrup. Screw on covers securely. The ginger- 
root may be omitted. 

Pears, plums, apples, crab-apples or quinces may be prepared in the same way. 
SWEET WATER MELON PICKLES 

7 c. rind of melon 2 c sugar Ya cup stick cinnamon 

3 c vinegar % cup cloves 

Cut rind in strips, remove the green and pink portions. Soak in alum water, allowing 
2 tsp. powdered alum to each qt. of water. Heat slowly to boiling point. Cook 10 minutes. 
Drain, cover with ice water, let stand 2 hrs., drain again. Boil the vinegar, sugar and season- 
ings (tied in cheese cloth) 10 minutes. Add the rind and cook until tender. Put in jars and 
cover with syrup. 



[Page 100] BASIC PRINCIPLES OP DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Usson 35A] 

PROTEIDS-TISSUE BUILDERS 

1. EGGS 

The eggs of many birds, both wild and domestic, are used for food, but the eggs of the 
domestic hen are most commonlv used. 



SHELL' 




AlP SPACE 



M£M0RAN£I 



A hen's egg consists of eight parts: 

1. SHELL (carbonate of lime). 

2. MEMBRANE I (which Ues next to the shell). 

3. WHITE (albumen and water). 

4. MEMBRANE II (Which encloses the yolk). 

5. "WDLK (oil, albumen, mineral matter and water). 

6. TWO SPIRAL CORDS (which hold the yolk in place). 

7. EMBRYO (the little mass which lies next to the yolk). 

8. AIR SPACE (which is between Membrane I and the round end of the shell). 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF EGGS 

Proteids 14.9 per cent Mineral matter 1. per cent 

Fat 10.6 per cent Water 73.5 per cent 

TYPICAL FOOD 

Eggs form a highly nutritious, concentrated food; and as they contain all the elements in 
the right proportion to support the body, they are classed as a tjrpical food. 

They should be eaten in combination with foods that are rich in starch, such as bread, 
potatoes, rice, etc. The digestive organs will then have more to act upon, a certain amount 
of bulk being necessary. 

A pound of eggs (nine) is considered equivalent in nutritive value to a pound of beef. 
Eggs are cheap for the healthy person only when the cost does not exceed 16 cents per dozen. 

Digestion. — All proteids are acted upon by the rennin or pepsin ferments in the gastric 
juice of the stomach and the trypsin of the pancreatic juice in the small intestines. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH ALBUMEN 

Break an ^g'g, separate the yolk from the white. Divide the white into three portions 
(A, B, C). ^ 

Ex. I. Half fill a glass with cold water, add A. Beat thoroly. Note results. 

Ex. II. Half fill a small saucepan with water; place over the fire and when the water 
boils, add B. Boil 2 minutes. Note results. 

Ex. III. Half fill a small saucepan with boiling water; add C. Place where it will 
neither simmer nor boil. Let stand 5 minutes. Note results. 

I. Cold water dissolves albumen. 

II. Heat coagulates albumen. Albumen cooked in boiling water is tough and homy. 

III. Albumen cooked in water below simmering point is jelly-like and tender. 
NOTE.—Change of albumen from a liquid to a solid state is called coagulation. 



[Lesson 35B] COOKED EGGS [t^age lolj 



GENEI^AL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKED EGGS 

Have ready a saucepan containing boiling water. A general rule is to allow one pint 
of water to two eggs, and an extra cupful for each additional egg. Place the eggs in the 
water with a spoon and cover tlie saucepan. 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS 

Place the eggs in a saucepan containing boiling water, let them stand on back of range 
from 8 to 10 minutes. 

HARD-COOKED EGGS 

Place the eggs in a saucepan containing boiling w.iter, and let them stand on back of 
the range from 40 to 45 minutes. 

POACHED EGGS 

Prepare a slice of buttered toast for each egg, and keep it hot. Have ready a shallow 
greased pan containing boiling salted water to cover the eggs. Break each egg separately into 
a saucer and slip it gently into the water, being careful that the water does not reach the 
boiling point. Cook until the white is firm and a film forms over top of the yolk. Remove 
the eggs from the water with a skimmer or a griddle cake turner. Drain, trim off rough 
edges, and place each egg on a slice of toast. 




Scrambled Eggs with Bacon 



SCRAMBLED EGGS 



Two tbsp. butter; 5 eggs; i^ c. milk; l^^ tsp. salt, and few grs. pepper. Beat eggs 
slightly, add salt, pepper and milk. Melt the butter in a frying pan, pour in the egg mix- 
ture, and cook slowly, continually scraping from bottom of pan. When creamy, turn into 
a hot dish and serve at once. Serve with ham or bacon, etc. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves lengthwise or crosswise. Remove yolks and mash them. 
Add half the amount of deviled ham and enough melted butter to make of consistency to 
shape. Shape into balls and refill whites. Form remainder of mixture into a nest on circular 
pieces of bread toasted on top side. Arrange eggs on the nest. Pour over them white sauce 
and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake in moderate oven until brown. 

NOTES: 



[Page 102] BAStO PHlKCIPLBS OF DOMESTIC SdEKCB [Letton 36A] 

PBOTEIDS— TISSXTE BUILDERS 

L EGGS— Continued 

Careful experiments show that albumen begins to coagulate at 134 deg. F., and becomes 
jelly-like at 160 deg. F. When cooked at 160 deg. to 185 deg. F. the albumen is rendered 
tender and readily digestible. Therefore, eggs should be cooked at a low temperature. 

WHY EGGS SPOIL 

Eggs spoil easily. Owing to the porous structure of the shell, bacteria enter, either 
from the place where the eggs have been lying, or by means of the air that rushes in as the 
water evaporates. These grow and decomposition takes place. • 




FRESH EGGS 

1. A fresh egg has a thick, rough shell. 

2. A fresh egg sinks when dropped into a basin of cold water. (See illustration.) 

3. A fresh egg looks clear when held between the eye and a strong light. 

HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS 

When eggs come from the market they should be washed and kept in a cool, dry place. 
Eggs may be kept for a long time by packing them, small end down, in substances that will 
exclude air. Example: bran, salt, etc. The U. S. Department of Agriculture recommends 
liquid glass as a preservative. Put fresh eggs into stone crocks, cover with a mixture of one 
part liquid glass to nine parts water. Cover jars and keep in a cool place. 

When using several eggs, break each one separately into a cup. In this way a poor 
egg may be detected. The yolk may be kept by covering with cold water, or cover dish with 
dampened paper. 

HOW TO BREAK AN EGG 

Hold the egg in the left hand and crack the shell by striking it sharply with a knife. 

TO SEPARATE THE YOLK FROM THE WHITE 

Slip the yolk from one piece of shell to the other several times. Slip the white onto 
a plate or deep platter and drop the yolk into a bowl. 

FOR SLIGHTLY BEATEN EGG, yolk or white, use a fork. 

FOR A W^Ifl- BEATER jY^f-K use a Dover egg-beater. 

FOR A W^LSL BEAirE]^ ^VViflTE use a wire whisk beater. 

DO N0TcAI4-Q'W„!KHE3E^TEN'^JVHITE TO STAND, but use it immediately. 

Do nQt-tetiiiisiftWa^be'ith^frS /«\ ..'^ 

NOTE. — ^Liquid glass may be purchased at any drug store. 



tLesBon 36B] 



BAKED CUSTARDS 



[Page 103] 



YELLOW CUSTARD 



^ tap. salt 
Few grains nutmeg or 
cinnamon 



4 c. scalded milk 6 eggs (if baked in a large 

4 eggs (if baked in individual mould) 
custard cups) % c. sugar 

Beat eggs slightly; stir in the sugar and salt; add the scalded milk slowly to the yolk 
mixture; strain into buttered custard cups and sprinkle a little nutmeg on top of each. 
Set cups in a pan containing hot water, and bake in a moderate oven until custard is firm. 

If a clean cut can be made with a knife, the custard is done. 

Do not let the water in the pan reach the boiling point during baking. Why? 




Baked Caramel Custard with Whipped Cream 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

4 c. scalded milk ^ tsp. salt 1 c. sugar 

5 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

Melt the sugar to a light brown syrup in a saucepan over a hot fire. Add scalded milk 
and cook until free froni lumps. Pour this into the slightly beaten eggs. Add salt and 
flavoring, then strain into a buttered mould. Bake as Yellow Custard. 



WHITE CUSTARD 



1^2 tsp. vanilla 



Whites of 4 eggs % tsp. salt 

14 c. sugar 2 c. scalded milk 

Beat the whites slightly; stir in the sugar and salt. Pour on the scalded milk gradually. 
Add vanilla, strain into a buttered baking dish. Bake as Yellow Custard. Shredded cocoanut 
may be added. 



CHOCOLATE CUSTARD 



sq. unsweetened chocolate 
c. sugar 



% tsp. salt 
M> tsp. vanilla 



2 tbsp. water 

2 c. milk 

3 eggs 
Scald the milk; melt the chocolate, stir in half the sugar, add the water and cook until 

smooth and glossy. Add the scalded milk to the chocolate mixture, stirring until well mixed. 
Beat the eggs slightly. Add remainder of sugar and the salt. Pour into it the chocolate and 
milk mixture; strain into buttered moulds. Bake as Yellow Custard. 

« 

CHEESE CUSTARD 

1 c. milk 1 egg 2 tbsp. cheese ^ tsp. salt Spk. pepper 

Scald the milk; stir into it the beaten egg, add the cheese, salt and pepper. Bake as 
Yellow Custard. 

CUSTARD BREAD PUDDING 

May be made by pouring any of these mixtures over buttered slices of toast and baked 
according to directions for Baked Yellow Custard. 



tPage 104] BASIC PRmclPLES OF 1X)MEST1C SCIENCE [Lesson S-TAl 

PROTEIOS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

MILK 

MILK is the natural food of the young of all the higher animals. 

IT IS A PERFECT FOOD for the infant, as it contains all the food principles in the 
right proportion to fully nourish it. 

Milk should be the chief food for a child at least until the first teeth appear. 

' Proteids 3.3 per cent 

Carbohydrates (milk sugar, called lactose) 5. per cent 

COMPOSITION < Fats 4. per cent 

Mineral Matter 7 per cent 

Water 87. per cent 

The greatest benefit is obtained from milk when it is heated to blood heat and taken at 
regular intervals between meals, and then it is more easily digested when taken in sips. 
Small curds are then formed in the stomach. Large curds are formed when the milk is 
taken hurriedly in large quantities. 

Milk should be heated over hot water. Boiling milk coagulates the albumen and makes it 
less digestible. 

BUYING MILK 

Do not buy cheap milk. Good milk is a yellowish white liquid, and tastes slightly sweet. 
MILK undiluted with water clings to the glass. 

MILK should have no sediment and should not look blue around the edges. A good plan 
is to buy MILK in the evening and let it stand over night in order to let the cream rise. 
Skim and serve the cream with the cereal and coffee for breakfast. Use the SKIMMED 
MILK for COOKING and DRINKING purposes. 

Milk quickly absorbs odors, and should be kept in clean vessels (glass or earthenware) 
in a cool, clean place. 

BACTERIA grow and multiply very rapidly in MILK; therefore the utmost cleanliness 
in handling is necessary. 

MILK PRODUCTS 

When milk stands, the fat globules rise to the top in the form of CREAM. Cream is 
put into a churn and shaken and the globules of cream gather together as BUTTER, and 
the liquid left is called BUTTERMILK. 

An acid added to milk coagulates the casein forming a CURD separating it from the 
liquid, then called WHEY. The CURD is then made into CHEESE which contains condensed 
nourishment (casein and fat of milk). 

CONDENSED MILK is prepared by evaporating milk to about % to % of its volume. 

MILK is preserved by STERILIZATION, PASTEURIZATION and EXAPORATION. 

NOT£S: 



[Lesson 3tfi] t>ROT£lI>S— TISSUB BUILDERS [Pt^gp 105] 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

Sterilize bottles by putting them edgewise into cold water; bring slowly to boiling point 
and boil twenty minutes. Fill the sterilized bottles •% full of milk and cork with cotton 
which has been baked in the oven, or with sterilized rubber corks. Place bottles on a rest or 
on several thicknesses of paper in a pan. Fill pan with enough cold water to reach as high 
as the milk in the bottles. Heat gradually to 160 deg. or until small bubbles appear in the 
milk next the glass. Keep at this temperature 40 minutes. Cork the bottles quickly and 
keep in a cold place. Do not remove corks until ready to use the milk. 

RENNET CUSTARD OR JUNKET 

1 qt. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 1 tbsp. liquid rennet or 1 junket 

4 tbsp. sugar \i tsp. salt tablet dissolved in 1 tbsp. 

water 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the sugar, salt, and flavoring, stirring until t^e sugar 
is dissolved. Add the junket water and pour into the serving dish. Chill. Serve with plain 
or whipped cream. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

1 c. thick cream 3 tbsp. sugar l^ tsp. vanilla 

Pour the cream into a bowl and set in a pan of ice water. Whip with a wire whisk or 
Dover egg-beater until stiff enough to hold its shape. Add sugar and vanilla. Do not beat 
the cream too long. 




SOUR MILK CHEESE OR COTTAGE CHEESE 

1 qt. sour milk 1 tsp. butter 2 or 3 tbsp. cream 

% tsp. salt 

Heat the milk slowly until the curd separates from the whey. Strain thru a piece of 
cheese cloth. Squeeze curd until quite dry. Put curd in a bowl and with a spoon or fork mix 
it with salt, butter and cream. Form into balls. These may be rolled in chopped parsley. 
The curd may be separated from the whey by adding one Rennet Tablet to a quart of milk 
heated to 100 deg. F. Then beat to separate curd from whey. 



[Page 106] BASIC PtUNOtHifiS OF BOMSStlG SCtENCfi tUsBon ddA] 

PBOTEID&--TISSUE BUILDERS 



Cheese Straws 



CH££S£ 



CHEESE is the curd of milk separated and pressed. 

Cheese is made chiefly from the milk of cows. Goats' milk is sometimes used. 

Cheese may be made from whole milk, to which cream has been added, or from skimmed 
milk. 

The curd may be separated by allowing the milk to stand until it is sour. It is then 
heated slightly and thd curd separated from the whey. It may be prepared by the action 
of rennet. The curd is then pressed to remove the whey. After pressure the curd is then 
set aside and kept at a favorable temperature to ripen, the time required varying from a 
short time to three or four years. New flavors are developed and the texture altered during 
the ripening process. The ripening is due to bactria and moulds. 

Cheese made from full milk is half fat. Cheese made of skimmed milk is sometimes filled 
by the addition of cheap fat, lard, etc. 

Filled cheese is greasy when warmed, and does not keep well. 

Various brands of cheese take their names from the places where they are made. 

SKIM-MILK Cheese — Parmesan, Edam and Gruyen. 

MILK Cheese — Gorgonzola, Cheddar, Gloucester, Cheshire. 

MILK and CREAM Cheese — ^Double Gloucester and Stilton, Neufchatel, Cream Cheese, 
Camembert and Brie, Brick Cheese, Roquefort. 

ONE POUND of cheese contains as much nutriment as two pounds of meat. 

It is a highly concentrated proteid food, and therefore should be eaten in small quantities 
with carbohydrates. 

Cheese should be kept covered. 

Grate the cheese when it becomes hard and dry. 

Any kind of cheese is made more digestible by being finely divided or dissolved and mixed 
with other foods, as in cooking. 

Cheese may be added to several scalloped dishes (ex., macaroni and cheese) or used as 
fiavoring for soups. 

Cheese is sufficiently cooked when melted; long cooking makes it tough. 

Soda added to dishes prepared with cheese makes the cheese dissolve more readily, thereby 
making it more digestible. When adding soda, use y^ tsp. to a cupful of grated cheese. 

NOTES: 



[Lbmou 38B] GHBBSS DISHES [Page 107] 

TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Prepare toast; dip quickly in hot salted water. Spread slices with grated cheese; place 
in a pan in the oven long enough to melt the cheese. 
Put ihe slices together as sandwiches. 

WELSH RABBIT 

^i lb. cheese (grated) Few grs. cayenne 2 eggs 

^ tap. mustard % tsp. soda 1 tbsp. butter 

^ t8p.salt ^ c. milk Crackers or toast 

Mix the first six ingredients; cook over hot water until cheese is melted; pour this onto 
the slightly beaten eggs, add the butter and cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until 
thick and smooth. Pour o^er slices of toast or crackers and serve at once. 

CHEESE FONDUE 

1 c. scalded milk Few grains pepper % tsp. mustard (if liked) 

1 c. soft bread crumbs 1 tbsp. butter 3 eggs 

2 c. cheese (cut fine) ^ tsp. salt 

Mix first seven ingredients, add well beaten yolks. Chit and iold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven twenty 'minutes, or 
until done. 

Baked in ramekin dishes — called cheese ramekins. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tbsp. butter V& tsp. salt % c. grated or shaved cheese 

2 tbsp. flour Few grs. cayenne 2 eggs 

^ c. scalded milk 

Melt the butter, add flour, and when thoroly mixed add gradually the scalded milk, stir- 
ring all the time until smooth and thickened. Then add seasonings and cheese. Remove 
from flre, add the well beaten yolks, cool; fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Pour in a but- 
tered baking dish and bake about 30 minutes. Serve immediately. 




CHEESE STRAWS 

5 tbsp. flour % tsp. butter . % c. grated cheese 

Vs tsp. salt % c. soft bread crumbs 2 tbsp. milk 

Few grs. cayenne or paprika 

Add salt and pepper to the flour, chop in the butter; add crumbs and grated cheese. 
Mix thoroly, then add milk to make a dough. Knead until smooth. Roll ^ inch thick and 
cut in strips. Lay them on buttered paper in a pan and bake 10 minutes or until light brown 
in a moderate oven. Parmesan is good for cheese straws. 



tPage 108] BASIC PRmciPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE tt-esson 39A] 

FREEZING 
ICE and SALT form a freezing mixture, several degrees below the freezing point of water. 

SALT melts the ice, withdrawing heat from the contents of the can, and the melting 
ice dissolves the salt. The smaller the pieces of ice, the more quickly the change to liquid 
and the more salt used, the more quickly the mixture is frozen. If too much salt is used, 
however, the frozen mixture will be coarsely grained. Three parts ice to one part salt is the 
best proportion for a smooth, fine-grained cream. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 

Scald can, cover and dasher, then chill. 

Place the can of the freezer in the pail; put in the dasher, and pour in mixture to be 
frozen. Cover and adjust "top. Turn crank- to make sure can fits in socket. 

Fill the space between the can and pail with alternate layers of ice and salt, allowing 
three measures of ice to one of salt. 

The ice and salt should come a little higher in the pail than mixture to be frozen. 

The can should not be more than % full, as the mixture expands in freezing. 

Turn the crank slowly at first, then turn crank more rapidly, adding more salt and ice if 
needed. 

Do not draw off the water, unless it stands so high that there is danger of it getting into 
the can. 

After freezing, draw off the water, remove dasher, and with spoon push solidly. 

Put cork in opening of cover. 

Repack, using four parts of ice to one of salt. 

Place on top newspapers, an old blanket, or a piece of carpet. 

HOW TO MAKE ICE CREAM OR ICES WITHOUT A FREEZER 

Cover bottom of pail with crushed ice. Put in baking powder can, tumbler, or lard pail 
containing mixture to be frozen, and surround with ice and salt. Turn can or tumbler with 
hand occasionally, and as soon as it begins to freeze, scrape frozen mixture from sides of 
can with a knife or spatula, and beat mixture with spoon, continuing until mixture is frozen. 




Ice Cream Served in Canteloupe 



[LeBSon 39B] FROZEN MILK AND CREAM MIXTURES, ICE CREAM [Page 109] 




Vanilla Ice Cream with Sliced Peaches 



VANILLA ICE CREAM— I 

1 qt. thin cream % c. sugar 

Mix ingredients and freeze. 



1^ tbsp. vanilla 



IV2 c. scalded milk 
1 tbsp. flour 



VANILLA ICj: CREAM— II 

% c. sugar 
Vs tsp. salt 
1 egg 



1 qt. thin cream 

2 tbsp. vanilla 



Mix flour, sugar and salt; add egg slightly beaten, and milk gradually. Cook in double 
boiler 20 minutes, stirring constantly at first. Should custard have curdled appearance, it will 
disappear in freezing. When cool, add flavoring and cream. Strain and freeze. Fresh fruit 
may be cut up and served with the ice cream. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Melt 4 oz. unsweetened chocolate; add 1 c. water and boil 5 min. Add this to Vanilla 
Ice Cream mixture. 



1 qt. thin cream 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 
1 c. sugar 



1 box strawberries 



Wash and hull berries. Sprinkle with sugar. Let stand one hour. Mash and rub thru 
strainer. Add the cream and freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Prepare same as Vanilla Ice Cream IT, using 1^2 c. sugar. Caramelize 1 cupful of the 
sugar according to the directions for Caramel Custard in Lesson 36B. 



NUT ICE CREAM 

Add chopped nuts to Vanilla Ice Cream mixture. 



2 c. sugar 



MILK SHERBET 

y2 c. lemon juice 



1 qt. milk 



Mix the sugar and strained lemon juice. Pour the milk into the freezer-can, add the 
lemon mixture. Stir thoroly, cover, freeze. 



[Page 110] BA8I0 FRINOIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 40A] 

PBOTEID&--TISSUE BUILDERS 

MEAT 
DEFINITION. — MEAT is the name given to the flesh of animals used for food. 

fProteids 18.36 

Gelatin 1.64 

Extractives 1.90 

Fat 90 

Mineral 1.30 

Water 75.90 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION 
OF LEAN BEEF 



100.00 
S:iNDS 

Beef is the meat of the steer, ox or cow, and is the most nutritious of animal foods. 
The hest heef is obtained from a steer four or five years old. 

Veal is the meat of a young calf killed when six or eight weeks old. The meat from a 
younger calf is unwholesome. Veal is less nutritious than beef, and is not so easily digested. 

Mutton is the name given to the meat of sheep. Mutton is considered almost as 
nutritious as beef. The fat of mutton is not as easily digested as the fat of beef. Good 
mutton comes from a sheep about three years old. 

Lamb is the name given to the meat of lambs. Lamb is less nutritious than mutton. 
Young lamb, when killed from six to eight weeks old, is called spring lamb. Lamb one year 
old is called yearling. 

Poultry includes chicken, turkey, geese, duck, etc. 

Game incudes wild fowl and wild animals, as partridges, grouse, quails, pigeons, ven- 
ison, etc. 

SELECTION 

MEAT should be uniform in color, the flesh should be firm and elastic to the touch. 
The flesh of beef should be of a bright red color, and intermingled with fat that is 
yellowish. 

MUTTON should be dull red in color, and the fat white. 

LAMB and VEAL should be lighter in color and the flesh less firm than in beef. 

Meat should be removed from the paper as soon as it comes from the market. 

Meat should be kept in a cool place. 

Always wipe meat with a damp cloth. 

METHODS OF COOKING 

The usual Methods of Cooking are boiling, stewing, steaming, broiling, roasting, baking, 
frying sauteing, braising and fricasseeing. 
Boiling. — Cooking in boiling water. 

Stewing. — Cooking for a long time below the boiling point. 
Steaming. — Cooking over the steam of boiling water. 
Broiling. — Cooking over a glowing fire. 

Roasting. — Cooking before a glowing fire (as commonly used, is the same as baking). 
Baking. — Cooking by the dry confined heat of the oven. 
Frying. — Cooking in hot fat deep enough to cover the article to be cooked. 
Sauteing. — Cooking in a small quantity of fat (commonly called frying). 
Braising. — ^A combination of stewing and baking. 
Fricasseeing. — A combination of frying and stewing. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 4DB] MEAT LOAF MIXTURES [Page 111] 




Beef Loaf with Riced Potatoes 



BEEF LOAF 



2 lbs. beef cut from the round ^ tsp. pepper 2 in. cube suet 

Vi tsp. onion juice 1 beaten ^%% 1 c. bread crumbs 

1 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. chopped parsley % c. milk 

Wipe the meat with a cloth. Put thru a meat chopper with the suet. Add the season- 
ings; knead; add the crumbs, well beaten egg, and gradually the milk. Knead imtil spongy. 
Shape into a loaf. Place in a pan lined with thin slices of salt pork fat or spread surface 
generously with suet. Dredge with flour, season with salt and pepper. Bake 40 minutes. 
Baste every 5 minutes with 1 tbsp. butter or melted suet mixed with 1 c. boiling water. This 
mixture may be steamed 2 hours. 

Veal loaf may be prepared in the same way, substituting veal for beef. 

CHICKEN LOAF 

4 lb. chicken % c. milk ^ c. bread crumbs 

1 tsp. salt ^^ tsp. paprika 3 eggs 

Va tsp. celery salt 

Force the chicken meat thru the meat chopper. Work in the seasoning and crumbs with 
a wooden spoon. Add the well beaten yolks, and then the milk gradually. (Taste and season 
more highly if necessary.) Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and bake in a well buttered mold 
placed in a pan of hot water, or steam 2^^ hours. 

MEAT LOAF 

1 lb. beef Vs tsp. pepper 1 beaten egg 

1 lb. veal 1 slice chopped onion 1% c. bread crumbs 

1 lb. pork 1 tbsp. chopped parsley % c. milk 

1^ tsp. salt 

Follow directions for Beef Loaf. 

POTATO NESTS 

Prepare mashed potatoes according to Lesson 19B. Shape into nests, brush with slightly 
beaten egg and brown in oven. (Take beef loaf mixture, shape to imitate little birds, using 
cloves for eyes, bake 10 min. in oven, basting frequently. Serve in nests.) 

TOMATO SAUCE 

% c. water 2 cloves 2 tbsp. butter 

% c. tomato V2. tsp. salt 2 tbsp. flour 

1 slice onion Vs tsp. pepper 

Boil the first four ingredients 5 min. Strain. Brown the butter, add the flour, brown the 
two. Then add gradually the hot liquid. Boil. Season to taste. 



[Page 112] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 41A] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BTHLDEBS 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT 
OBJECT— 

1. To extract the juices, as in Soups, Broths and Beef Teas. 

2. To retain the juices, as in Broiling, Roasting, Boiling and Frying. 

3. Combination of both, as in Stewing, and Braising, where part of the juices are 
retained and part extracted. 

EXPERIMENTS 

1. Put a piece of beef (2 in.) into a glass half filled with cold water. Let stand 20 
min. Does the water look just the same? 

2. Scrape or cut a piece of beef (2 in.) into small pieces. Put into a glass half fillec^ 
with cold water. Compare with No. 1. 

3. Put a small piece of beef into a heavy glass. Pour on boiling water. What happens ? 

What effect does COLD water have on albumen? 

What effect does BOILING water have on albumen? 

t 

HOW TO PREPARE BEEF TEA 

1 lb. lean beef 1 pt. cold water Salt to taste 

sScrape or cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cold water into a glass jar 
or top of a double boiler. Let stand 30 min. Place on a trivet in a kettle containing cold 
water, or over lower part of double boiler. Heat slowly. Let stand at a low temperature 
(130 deg. F.) 2 or 3 hrs. Strain thru a coarse strainer and press the meat to obtain all tKe 
juices. Beef tea prepared below coagulating point of albumen is a nutrient. 

BROILED BEEF ESSENCE 

One lb. steak from the round and cut % in. thick. Wipe meat, place in a heated broiler. 
Broil 3 min., put on hot plate, cut into small pieces. Express the juice with a lemon 
squeezer, potato ricer, or vegetable press, and turn into a cup. Set in a dish of hot water. 

DIRECTIONS FOR SOUP-MAKING 

2 lbs. raw meat and bone Bit of bay leaf 4 tbsp. turnip, cubed 
1 lb. browned meat and bone Sprig of parsley ^ tsp. salt 

3 qts. water 4 tbsp. carrot, cubed 2 peppercorns 

1 stalk celery 4 tbsp. onion, sliced Few grs. pepper 

Cut the meat into small pieces; have the bones sawed. Let meat and bone soak in the 
water 1 hr. Simmer in a kettle 4 or 5 hrs. (If only raw meat is used, brown Vs of it in a 
frying pan with a little fat of the meat.) About 1 hr. before the stock is taken from the fire 
add the vegetables, which have been browned in suet and seasonings. 

NOTES: 

L'se all the trimmings in making soup stock. 
For white stock use veal or chicken. 

For brown stock use beef, part of it browned, and the vegetables browned. 
Stock without vegetables keeps best in hot weather. 

Stock may be clarified by adding the slightly beaten white of egg and shell, stir, then 
boil 2 min., simmer 20 min.; remove scum and strain thru a cloth placed over a fine strainer. 



[Lesson 41B] STEWING [Page 113] 

GENERAL DISECTIONS FOR STEWING 

Stewing is cooking slowly, a long time, in a small quantity of water. 

The object is to retain part of the juice and extract enough to give flavor to the gravy. 

This is done by cutting the meat into suitable pieces for serving. Divide into 2 portions. 
Add one portion to cold water and heat slowly to boiling point. Meanwhile sear the other 
portion by browning in a little fat in a frying pan. Then add it to the water and meat. 
The whole should then be cooked slowly for three hours, or until the meat is tender. 

Beef, Mutton, Lamb or Veal may be used, selecting the tough pieces, such as the neck, 
shoulder, lower part of round, aitch bone, etc. Pieces of cold cooked meat may be added to 
the stew. 

Meat with some bone and fat makes a richer stew than the one made with lean meat. 

The pieces of meat are usually dredged with flour before browned. This gives color to 
the stew, a richer flavor, and also thickens the gravy. 

Onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips and potatoes are the vegetables commonly used in 
stews. Tomatoes, string beans and green peas are sometimes used. The vegetables should 
be cut into %-inch cubes, %-inch slices or strips, and added the last hour of cooking. The 
potatoes, however, should be parboiled 5 minutes, then added to the stew, allowing 20 min- 
utes for cooking. The vegetables may be cooked separately. The usual seasonings are salt 
and pepper. Sweet herbs, parsley, a bit of bay leaf, one or two cloves, celery salt, or catsup 
may be added to give variety. 

Dumplings are often served with stew. Place them so they will rest fjj^ the jn^at ai!d 
vegetables and cook ten minutes. ^ 

BEEF STEW 

2 lbs. beef 1 turnip 4 potatoes 

3 tbsp. flour 1 carrot Salt and pepper 
Water 2 onions, sliced 

Prepare according to directions given above. 




BEEF A LA MODE 

Insert 12 large strips of salt pork fat or piece of suet into a 4-pound piece of round of 
beef. Season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour. Put a piece of suet in a hot pan, brown 
the meat on all sides in this. Put in kettle with vegetables and water according to recipe 
for beef stew, cover closely and cook slowly 4 or 5 hours in oven or on top of range. 

POT ROAST 

When beef is similarly prepared (without the strips of fat and vegetables) and cooked in 
^ smaller ^piojr.t of water it is called pot roast. 



[Page 114] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 42A] 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT 

Broiling is cooking by direct exposure to heat, over hot coals or over a flame (gas flame). 

Cooking with little or no fat in a hot frying pan is called "Pan Broiling." 

The Object is to retain the juices. 

The Method is to expose the surfaces of the meat to a hot fire, turning frequently. 

By turning frequently, the surfaces are scared and tlie juices retained. 

EXPERIMENTS 

Put a piece of meat into a wire broiler, hold over a flame one minute. What happens? 
The juice comes to the top and when turned the juice drops into the fire. 

Put a piece of meat into a wire broiler, hold over a flame and count ten. Turn, count 
ten, and repeat. Raise broiler, count ten, turn. Repeat. Cut and examine. 

The tender cuts of beef, mutton and lamb, and some kinds of game, are used for broiling. 

Young chicken, small fish, lobsters, and oysters may be broiled. 

Pork and veal should not be broiled, as tliey require long cooking. 

Dark meats, as beef, mutton, etc., may be cooked rare. 

Lamb, chicken, and light meats should be well done. 

The best cuts for broiling are steaks from the loin of beef (all between the first rib and 
rear end of hip bone). Example: Sirloin, porterhouse, from the top of round and rump, and 
the rib or loin chops of mutton and lamb. 

The meat should be cut "across the grain," from % to l^/^ in. thick. 

The dampers of the stove should be open during broiling, so that the smoke, etc., may be 
carried to the chimney. 

NOTES: 



[Liesson 42B] 



BROILINO 



[Page 115] 



^ . 



,^-t\ 



'^i« "^p^ 



Broiled Steak With Staffed Tomatoes 



TO BROIL STEAK 

Wipe meat with a damp cloth and trim oflf superfluous fat. Rub the wire broiler with a 
little of the fat. Place the meat in broiler and broil over a clear fire, turning every ten seconds 
for the first minute. After the first minute, turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides. 

TIME. — Steak an inch thick requires from five to eight minutes. 

Steak may be pan broiled. See 42A. 

SERVE WITH MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

Cream 3 tbsp. butter; add 1 tsp. lemon juice gradually, % tsp. salt, % tsp. pepper and % 
tbsp. chopped parsley. 




Hamburg Steak With Riced Potatoes 

HAMBURG STEAK 

Chop finely 1 lb. lean raw beef; season highly with salt, pepper and a few drops of onion 
juice. Add % c. milk gradually; knead dough until spongy and shape into cakes. Heat a 
frying pan, rub with the fat of meat and pan broil the steaks. Turn cakes often during the 
cooking. 

PAN BROILED CHOPS 

Heat the frying pan very hot. Trim the chops, remove the fat, and wipe the chops. Put 
into frying pan. When one side is seared, sear the other, turn often the first minute. Cook 
from 6 to 8 min. Stand chops in the pan so the edges may be cooked. 

TIME TABLE FOR BROILING 

Steak 1 inch thick 5 to 8 minutes 

Steak 1% inch thick 7 to 12 minutes 

Chickens 20 to 30 minutes 

Squabs 10 to 12 minutes 



tPage 116] 



BASIC PRINC3IPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 43A] 




[Lesson 43B] PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS [Page 117] 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT 

Braising is steaming meat in its own juices in the oven. It is done by the cooking of 
meat with a small amount of water in the oven in a tightly covered pan or kettle. It is a 
combination of stewing and baking meat. The meat should be cooked in an oven at a low 
temperature for a long time. By so doing tough pieces of meat become tender. 

ROLLED FLANK OF BEEF OR ROLLED ROUND OF BEEF 

Flank steak, or 1 lb. of thinly cut round steak. 

2 or 3 small pieces of suet ^4 c. carrot, cubed 

1 onion 2 c. stock or water 

Wipe the meat, trim the edges, pound on both Sides, spread with stufling, roll and tie. 
Sprinkle the roll with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and brown on all sides in hot drip- 
pings and lay it on the onion and carrot in a pan with the suet on top. Pour the water or 
stock into the pan. Cover tightly and cook slowly in the oven or on top of the stove. 

For round steak, cook slowly, covered, for % hr. or more in a moderate oven, then uncover 
and cook % hr. 

For flank steak, cook slowly, covered, for 3 hrs. or more in a moderate oven, then uncover 
last % hr. 

Serve with brown gravy made by thickening the liquid in the pan. 

Individual rolls may be made. 

STUFFING 

2 c. soft bread crumbs 2 tbsp. celery (cut) or % tsp. 
2 tbsp. melted butter celery salt 

2 tbsp. chopped parsley % tsp. salt 

% tsp. onion juice (if liked) % tsp. pepper 

y^ c. hot water 




VEAL BIRDS 

Wipe thin slices of veal cut from the leg or should^f. Pound the meat on both sides, 
and cut into 3 by 3^ -inch pieces. Spread pieces with STUFFING, roll and tie, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dredge with flour. Brown in hot butter. Put in stew pan, cover with a 
thin white sauce and cook slowly until tender. Serve on small circular or square pieces ol 
toast, cover with the sauce and garnish with parsley. The trimmings may be used for 
making a white stock, which may be added to the sauce or stuflSng. 



[Page 118] BASIC PRINGIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 44A] 

BEEF 

Name of Cut How to Prepare No. of Lesson 

LOIN— Including all Sirloin Cuts Roast 44B 

Broil 42B 

RUMP Fairly good for broiling 42B 

Back of Loin Roast 44B 

« " Stew 41B 

" " Pot Roast 41B 

ROUND Braize 43B 

« Beef a la mode 41B 

" Beef juice 41A 

Beef tea 41A 

** Fairly good for roasting 44B 

" and broiling 42B 

PRIME RIBS 4. Fine for roasting 44B 

BLADE Fairly good for roasting. 44B 

CHUCK Braize 43B 

" I Pot roast 41B 

Stew 41B 

NECK Soup 41A 

« Stew 41B 

BRISKET Com or boil 41B 

CROSS RIBS Pot roast or inferior steak 41B 

PLATE Corn or boil 41B 

NAVEL Corn or boil 41B 

FLANK .Stew 41B 

** Roll and braize 43B 

SHIN Soup 41A 

Skirt Steak Stew 41B 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 46B] FRYING— C5R0QUETTES [Page 123] 

Left-overs of cooked meat, fish, vegetables, or macaroni may be used in croquettes. 

The usual mixture consists of two parts of meat, etc., to one part of well seasoned, thick 
sauce. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Cool the mixture. Use 2 tbsp. of mixture to each croquette. Form into balls, cylinders, 
or to imitate pears, apples, etc., using cloves for stems and for eyes if shaped into birds. 

Put a heap of fine crumbs on a board or large plate. (Use for crumbing dried bread 
crumbs which have been rolled and sifted, or stale bread crumbs forced through a colander.) 
Break an egg, add two tbsp. water, beat slightly. Roll the shaped croquette mixture in the 
crumbs, dip in egg and then in crumbs again. Fry in smokirig hot fat until a light brown 
and drain on soft paper. 

Place a napkin on a hot platter and arrange the croquettes on it. Garnish with parsley, 
etc. A sauce may be served with croquettes. 




VEAL CROQUETTES 

2 c. chopped veal (cooked) Few grs. cayenne Few drops onion juice 

% tsp. salt. 1 c. thick sauce Yolk 1 egg 

Vs tsp. pepper 
Mix ingredients in order given. Cool, shape, dip in crumbs, eggs, and crumbs again. 
Fr^ in deep fat. Chicken croquettes may be made in same way, substituting chicken for veal. 

THICK SAUCE 
2ys tbsp. butter Vs c. fiour 1 c. liquid 

% tsp. salt Few grs. pepper 

(In making the thick white sauce use either white stock or milk.) Follow directions 
given in Lesson 7B. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 
2 c. riced potatoes 8 drops onion juice % tsp. pepper % tsp. salt 

^ tsp. celery salt 1 tsp. chopped parsley 2 tbsp. butter 1 egg yolk 

Mix ingredients in order given. Shape, dip in crumbs, eggs and crumbs again. Fry in hot 
fat. 

RICE CROQUETTES 
2 c. steamed rice (Lesson 21B) % tsp. salt Few grains paprika 

1 well beaten egg or 2 yolks % tsp. pepper 2 tbsp. chopped 

1^ tbsp. butter parsley 

Mix ingredients, follow directions. Sweet rice croquettes may be made by omitting the 
peppef, paprika and parsley, and adding 2 tbsp. sugar and the grated rind of % lemon. 

BREADED VEAL CUTLETS 
Use % inch thick slices of veal cut from the leg. Wipe meat. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender. Remove bone and skin and cut into pieces for serving. Drain, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, eggs, and crumbs again and fry in hot deep fat. The 
stock may be used for sauce or soup. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 
Wash and pare small potatoes; cut in eighths lengthwise, and soak 1 hour in cold water. 
Take from water, dry between towels, and fry in deep fat. 
Drain on paper and sprinkle with salt. 
Do not have the fat too hot, as the potatoes must be cooked. 



[Page 124] BASIC PRINGIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Leason 47A] 

TABLE SHOWINO COMPOSITION OF MEAT 

Mineral 
Article, Beef Refuse Proteid Fat Matter Water 

Fore quarter 19.8 14.1 16.1 .7 49.3 

Hind quarter 16.3 15.3 15.6 .8 52. 

Round 8.5 18.7 8.8 1. 63. 

Rump 18.5 14.4 19. .8 47. 

Loin 12.6 15.9 17.3 .9 53.3 

Ribs 20.2 13.6 20.6 .7 44.9 

Chuck ribs 13.3 15. 20.8 .8 50.1 

Tongue 15.1 14.8 15.3 .0 53.8 

Heart » 16. 20.4 1. 62.6 

PROF. W. 0. ATWATER, Ph.D. 

TIME TABLE FOB BOILING MEAT AND FISH 

Fresh beef 4 to 6 hrs. 

Corned beef, rib or flank, per lb., 25 min 4 to 7 hrs. 

Corned beef, fancy brisket, per lb., 30 min 5 to 8 hrs. 

Corned tongue 3 to 4 hrs. 

Ham, 12 to 14 lbs 4 to 5 hrs. 

Leg or shoulder of lamb 2 to 3 hrs. 

Leg or shoulder of mutton, per lb., 12 to 20 min 3^ to 5 hrs. 

Turkey, per lb 15 to 18 min. 

Fowl, per 4 lbs , ^ 2 to 4 hrs. 

Lobster 25 to 30 min. 

Codfish, per lb 6 min. 

Haddock, per lb 3 min. 

Salmon, whole or thick piece, per lb 10 to 15 min. 

Halibut, whole or thick piece, per lb 15 min. 

Clams 3 to 5 min. 

Oysters 3 to 5 min. 

Fish, per lb .10toa2min. 

Review lessons up to date. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 47B] 



MEAT SAUCES 



[Page 125] 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SAUCES 

RULE I 

Mix an equal amount of flour and water until smooth, then add more cold water until 
thin enough to pour. Add the flour mixture gradually to the hot liquid, stirring all the time 
until thickened, add the butter and seasonings for making sauces just before taking from 
the fire. If cooked in a double boiler, allow 20 min. for cooking. If boiled, cook 5 min. This 
method does not cook the butter. Cooking butter renders it less digestible. 

For a thin sauce, allow 1% tbsp. flour to 1 c. liquid. 

For a medium sauce, allow 2 tbsp. flour to 1 c. liquid. 

RULE n 

Melt the butter, add flour mixed with seasonings and stir until thoroly mixed. Pour on 
gradually the hot liquid, adding one-third at a time, stirring while cooking until perfectly 
smooth before adding more liquid. 

RULE in 

Cream the butter, flour and seasonings; add to hot liquid; cook, stirring all the time 
until perfectly smooth. 



1 c. scalded milk 

2 tbep. flour 



WHITE SAUCE 

2 tbsp. water 
^ tsp. salt 



Few grs. pepper 
2 tbsp. butter 



Follow directions as given above in Rule I. 



THICK WHITE SAUCE 



Allow ^^ c. flour to 1 c. milk. 

% c. highly seasoned 
white stock 

Follow directions. 
Lesson 40B 



BECHAMEL SAUCE 

1/^ c. scalded milk 
ii tsp. salt 
2 tbsp. flour 

TOMATO SAUCE 



1-16 tsp. pepper 
2 tbsp. butter 



TOMATO CREAM SAUCE 
Add Ys tsp. soda to Tomato Sauce. Heat, add gradually ^^ c. scalded milk. 



BROWN SAUCE 



2 c. brown stock 

1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 



1 tbsp. butter 

2 tbsp. flour 



Salt and pepper to taste. 

Brown the butter, add the flour. Brown the two, stirring until smooth; add the stock 
giadually; cook and stir until sauce is smooth. 



MINT SAUCE 

1 c. finely chopped mint leaves % c. vinegar 

2 tbsp. sugar 

Use only the leaves and tender tips of the mint. Add the sugar to the vinegar. When 
dissolved, pour over the mint and let stand on the back of the range for thirty minutes. If 
the vine^r is very strong, add a little water. 



[Page 126] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [LesBon 48A] 

PBOTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

FISH 

FISH is the animal food next in importance to that of meat. The fish flesh is less 
stimulating and nourishing than meat, but is considered to be more easily digested. 

Fish is classified into the white-fleshed and red-fleshed. 

In the white-fleshed flsh, most of the oil is secreted in the liver, while in the red-fleshed 
the oil is distributed throughout the flesh. 

White-Fleshed Fish.— Examples: White Fish, Haddock, Cod, Flounder, Smelt, Perch, 
Pickerel, Sun Fish, Croppies, etc. 

Red-Fleshed Fish. — ^Examples: Salmon, Shad, Lake Trout, Butter Fish, Herring, etc. 

The white-fleshed flsh is more easily digested than the red-fleshed and should therefore 
be selected for invalids, convalescents or those suffering from weak digestion. 

Fish should be eaten while fresh and in season. Stale fish is poisonous. 

HOW TO SELECT FRESH FISH 

Select a flsh that has bright eyes and gills, shiny scales, firm flesh, and is free from a 
disagreeable odor. 

HOW TO CLEAN FISH 

Remove the scales by drawing a knife over the fish, beginning at the tail and working 
toward the head. 

Wipe the fish inside and outside with a cloth wet in cold salted water, then wipe with a 
clean dry cloth, kept for the purpose. Head and tail may or may not be taken oflf, according 
to the manner of cooking. 

HOW TO SKIN A FISH 

Rub fingers with salt, so that the fish may be held without slipping. 

Remove the fins along the back with a sharp knife. Cut off a narrow strip of skin 
the entire length of the back. Loosen the skin from the bony part of gills and draw it off 
very carefully, one side at a time. 

HOW TO BONE A FISH 

Clean and skin; begin at the tail and run a sharp knife under the fiesh close to the 
back, working toward the head. Turn and repeat on the other side. Pick out any small 
bones that may remain. 

METHODS OF COOKING FISH 

Broiling, baking and steaming are the best methods for cooking fish. 

Fish suitable for broiling are: Split mackerel, white fish, cod, shad, trout, etc., sliced 
halibut and salmon, white smelts and small fish. 

Fish suitable for baking whole are: White fish, cod, haddock, small salmon, shad, etc. 

Fish suitable for boiling are: Salmon, halibut, cod, haddock, trout, etc. 

Fish suitable for frying are the white-fleshed. 




Boiled Fish with Potato Balls 



[Lesson 48B] DIFFERENT WAYS OF PREPARING FISH [Page 127] 




BAKED FISH 

Select a fish weighing from 2^^ to 4 lbs. Bake with or without filling. 

Clean and wipe the fish. Rub the inside with salt. Fill with stuffing (Lesson 49B.) and 
sew together. Cut diagonal gashes 1^ inches apart on both sides of the fish, and place a 
strip of bacon or salt pork fat in each gash. 

Brush with melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with fiour, tie in the 
shape of a letter S and bake on a baking sheet or strips of cotton cloth (so that it may be 
easily removed from pan) in a dripping pan. When the flour is browned baste the fish once 
in ten minutes. CJook until the flesh is firm and separates easily from the bone. When 
cooked, slip onto a hot platter, garnish with fried gelatine or parsley and lemon cut into 
fancy shapes. Serve with tomato sauce (Lesson 40B). 

FRIED FISH 

Clean and wipe the fish. Season with salt and pepper, roll in com meal, flour or crumbs, 
dip in eggs and crumbs again (Lesson 46A). Cook in deep hot fat; drain on soft paper. 
Serve on a hot dish. 

SAUTED FISH 
Prepare fish as for frying and cook in a small amount of fat in a frying pan. 

BOILED FISH 

Clean and wipe the fish; tie in a cheese cloth to hold the fish together and to prevent the 
scum from adhering to the fish. Place the fish on a rack or frying basket to keep the 
shape and to make it easier to remove from the water. Cook gently in enough boiling 
salted acidulated water to cover the fish, using 2 tsp. salt and 2 tbsp. vinegar to each quart of 
water. The salt gives fiavor and the vinegar or lemon juice keeps the flesh white. Allow 
about 15 minutes to the pound. The flsh is cooked when the flesh is firm and separates easily 
from the bone. 

Remove from water, take off the cheese cloth, put on a hot platter, and serve with Hol- 
landaise Sauce (Lesson 49B). 

BROILED FISH 

Clean and wipe the fish; remove head and tail and split down the back. If a thick fish 
is used, cut into slices. 

Grease a wire broiler, lay in the fish and cook over a clear fire, cooking the flesh side 
first. Turn it and cook the skin until crisp. Sliced fish should be turned often while broil- 
ing. Fish is cooked when flesh is flrm. Slip onto a hot platter, season with salt, pepper and 
butter and lemon juice, if liked. 

NOTES: 



[Page 128] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 49A] 



From the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
iNb.85. ~ 



Farmers' Bulletin J 



By C. F. Langworthy, Ph. D. 
TABLI I.— Composition of fish, molluBla, cniataceuis, etc. 



KIND OF FOOD 
MATERIAL 


Refuse 
(bone, 
skin, 
etc.) 


Salt. 


Water 


Protein 
by Factor 
N X 6.25) 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash or 
Mineral 
Matter 


Total 

Nutri- 
ents 


Fuel 
Value 
per lb. 


FfeshFish 

Alewife, whole. . . 


Pbr cent. 
19.5 

46.7 

56.0 

46.4 

53.6 
46.8 
56.1 
51.2 
55.7 
48.6 
34.6 
42.8 

37.1 
29.9 
9.2 
40.3 
20.2 

57.0 

56.2 
52.2 
61.0 
17.7 
42.6 
40.7 

24.4 

34.6 
49.0 
57.9 
54.6 
62.5 
35.1 
35.9 
47.1 
28.5 
45.5 
53.7 
60.0 
55.9 
45.3 

10.3 
23.8 
43.9 
50.1 


Per cent. 


Per cent. 
37.6 

41.9 

34.6 

40.1 

34.7 
42.2 
34.8 
37.4 
35.0 
40.3 
45.8 
40.1 

48.4 
58.5 
72.4 
49.0 
57.2 

35.8 

37.0 
39.5 
40.0 
61.9 
41.7 
43.7 , 

51.4 

44.5 
38.2 
31.5 
34.4 
28.4 
50.7 
51.2 
42.2 
64.3 
39.5 
34.6 
29.9 
35.0 
43.7 

57.9 
51.2 
39.6 
36.2 
71.2 
46.1 
67.4 
39.6 
32.7 
48.4 
40.4 
44.4 
43.1 
37.3 
.46.1 
38.0 
39.4 
32.5 

44.6 


Per cent. 
9.8 

10.3 

8.5 

11.7 

10.1 
10.5 

8.7 

8.8 

8.4 
10.0 
11.8 
10.3 


Per cent. 
2.4 

.5 

.4 

1.3 

1.1 

.2 

.2 
2.2 

.5 

.6 
7.2 
6.3 

.7 
0.2 

.5 

.1 
7.2 

.3 

.2 

.3 

.2 
4.4 
3.9 
3.6 

7.2 

6.2 
2.4 
2.0 
1.8 
1.5 

.7 

.2 

.2 

6 
4.3 
2.4 
2.1 

.2 

.3 

14.8 
9.5 
6.4 
4.8 
3.8 
1.0 
1.6 
.3 
.2 
1.3 
1.1 
6.2 
8.7 
7.5 
1.3 
1.1 
3.6 
3.0 
► > 
2.4 


Per cent. 


Per cent. 
0.8 

.6 

.5 

.7 

.6 
.7 
.6 
.5 
.5 
.7 
.7 
.6 

.9 
0.8 
1.0 

.5 

.8 

.6 

.5 
.5 

.6 
.9 
.9 
.7 

1.2 

1.0 
.6 
.5 
.5 
.4 
.9 
.7 
.6 
1.1 
.5 
.7 
.6 
.5 
.7 

.9 

.9 

.8 

.7 
1.5 
1.0 
1.2 

.5 

.4 

.7 

.6 

.7 

.8 

.7 

.7 

.6 

.9 

.7 

.7 


Per cent. 
13.0 

11.4 

9.4 

13.7 

11.8 
11.4 

9.5 
11.5 

9.4 
11.3 
19.7 
17.2 

14.5 
12.1 
18.5 
10.7 
22.8 

7.3 

7.0 

8.1 

9.2 
20.6 
16.0 
15.8 

24.7 

21.3 
12.9 

8.9 
11.1 

9.2 
14.4 
12.9 
10.7 
17.1 
15.1 
11.7 
10.1 

9.2 
11.6 

32.4 
25.4 
16.8 
14.9 
28.8 
12.1 
17.9 

9.2 

7.6 
13.9 
11.6 
17.9 
18.4 
15.9 
12.4 
10.3 
17.3 
14.3 

14.0 


Calories 
277 


Bass, large -mouthed 
black, dressed 






209 


Bass, large -mouthed 
black, whole 






172 


Bass, small -mouthed 
bhick, dressed 




263 


Bass, small - mouthed 
black, whole 






227 


Bass, sea, dressed 






200 


Bass, sea, whole 






168 


Bass, striped, dressed . 






249 


Blackfish. dressed 






172 


Bluefish, dressed 






204 


Butterfish, dressed 






503 


Butterfish. whole 






440 


Carp (European analy-. 






263 


CJod, dressed 




11.1 
17.0 
10.1 
14.8 

6.4 

6.3 
7.3 
8.4 
15.3 
11.2 
11.6 

16.3 

14.1 
9.9 
8.2 
8.8 
7.3 
12.8 
12.0 
9.9 
15.4 
10.3 
8.6 
7.4 
8.5 
10.6 

16.7 
15.0 
10.6 

9.4 
23.5 
10.1 
15.1 

8.4 

6.9 
11.9 

9.9 
11.0 

8.9 

7.7 
10.4 

8.6 
12.8 
10.6 

10.9 




209 


Ck)d, steaks 




327 


Cusk, dressed 






186 


Eel, salt-water, dressed. . . 






558 


Flounder, common 
dressed 






127 


Flounder, winter, .. 
dressed 






122 


Hake, dressed 






145 


Haddock, dressed 






159 


Halibut, dressed 






454 


Herring, whole 







363 


Mackerel, dressed 






354 


Mackerel, Spanish, 
dressed 






585 


Mackerel, Spanish, 
whole 







508 


Mullet, dressed 






277 


Mullet, whole 






231 


Perch, white, dressed 






231 


Perch, white, whole... 







195 


Perch, yellow, dressed. . . . 






259 


Pickerel, dressed 






227 


Pickerel, whole 






186 


Pollock, dressed 






304 


Pompano, whole 






358 


Porgy, dressed 






264 


Porgy, whole 






218 


Red grouper, dressed. . . 






163 


Red snapper, dressed 

Salmon, California (sec- 
tions) 






204 






903 


Salmon, Maine, dressed. . 






658 


Shad, dressed 






408 


Shad, whole 






363 


Shad, roe 






681 


Smelt, whole 


41.9 
14.4 
61.4 
59.9 
37.9 
48.1 
37.5 
39.5 
47.7 
41.7 
51.9 
43.6 
53.5 

41.6 






222 


Sturgeon, dressed . 






340 


Tomcod, dressed . . . 






163 


Tomcod, whole 






132 


Trout, brook, dressed 






268 


Trout, brook, whole. 






222 


Trout, lake, dressed 






449 


Turbot, dressed 






513 


Turbot, whole 






445 


Weakfish, dressed. . . 







240 


Weakfish, whole 






200 


Whitefish, dressed 






376 


Whitefish, whole 






313 


General average of fresh . 
fishes sold 






295 



NOTES: 



[LesMtt 40B] nSH SAUCES [Page 189] 



I DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE 



2 c. boiling water 4 tbap. flour 

% c batter % tap. pepper 

^ tap. aaU 

Melt half the batter, add the flour. Stir while adding the boiling water gradually. Boil 
i) minutes. Add the seasoningg and remaining butter. 

CAPER SAUCE 

Add % c. capers, drained, to drawn butter sauce. 

EGG SAUCE 

Add two "hard cooked" eggs, finely chopped, to drawn butter sauce. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

To serre with salmon: 

6 tbsp. grated horseradish ^ tsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. vinegar Few grs. cayenne 

^ tsp. salt % c. thick slightly sour cream 

Mix ingredients except cream. Beat cream until stiff. Combine, beat until thoroly mixod 
and serve. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE I 

2 tbsp. butter < 1 c. fish stock 

2 tbsp. flour 2 yolks 

Salt and pepper 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Melt the butter, add the flour. Stir while gradually adding the flsh stock (water in which 
the fish has been cooked). Boil 6 minutes. Remove from fire, pour some of the mixture over 
the slightly beaten yolks; pour this back into the sauce. Beat and add the lemon juice and 
seasonings. Do not reheat. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE II 

. ^ c. butter % tbsp. vinegar or % tsp. salt 

Yolks 2 eggs 1 tbsp. lemon juice % c. hot water 

% tsp. paprika 

Cream the butter, add the yolks and beat thoroly. Then add the lemon juice, salt, paprika 
and hot water. Cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly until like thick cream. Remove 
from fire and beat with a Dover egg beater about 5 minutes. 

FISH STUFFING 

1 c. crumbs (bread or % tsp. celery salt 

crackers or half and half) V& tsp. pepper 

^ c. melted butter (Few drops onion juice, if liked) 

% tsp. salt % c. water 

Mix ingredients in order given. If a dry filling is desired, the water may be omitted. 

Three tbsp. catsup, chopped parsley, capers, pickles, or oysters may be added, 



[Page 130] 



BASIC PRmOIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[LeB80n 50A] 



TABU I.— Oompoiltlon of flih, moUuiki, •te.— Gont. 



Refuse 
(bone, 
akin, 
etc.) 



KIND OF FOOD 
MATBRIAL 



Salt 



Water 



Protein 
by Factor 
(Nx6.25) 



Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Ash or I Total 
Mineral | Nutri- 
Matter ' ents 



Per cent, 



19.7 
24.9 



Preoerred Fish 

Mackerel, No. I, salted. 
Cod, salted and dried. . 
Cod, boneless codfish, 

salted and dried 

Caviar 

Herring, salted, smoked 

and dried I 44.4 

Haddock, salted, smoked 

and dried ' 

Halibut, salted, smoked; 

and dried | 

Sardines, canned , 

Salmon, canned | 

Mackerel, canned j 

Mackerel, salt, canned 

Tunny, canned I 

Haddock, smoked, cookedi 

and canned 



Per cent, 



8.3 
17.3 



21.6 



32.2 

7.0 
5.0 
14.2 



19.7 



MoUuBks 

Oysters, solids 

Oysters, in shell 

Oysters, canned 

Scallops 

Long clams, in shell 

Long clams, canned 

Round clams, removed 

from shell 

Round clams, in shell 

Round clams, canned 

Mussels 

General average of mol- 

lusks (exclusive of 

canned) 

a Including salt. 

CnutaceanB 

Lobster, in shell 

Lobster, canned 

Crawfish, in shell 

Crabs, in shell 

Crabs, canned 

Shrimp, canned 

Fresh abalone 

Canned abalone, flesh . . 

Canned abalone, liquid in 
can 

Dried abalone 

Genera! average of crus- 
taceans (exclusive of 

canned and dried 

Terrapin, Turtle, etc. 

Terrapin, in shell i 

Green turtle, in shell | 

Average of turtle and 
terrapin 

Frogs' legs.'. 

General average of fish, 
molluaks, crustaceans, 
etc 



81.4 



41.9 



67.5 



46.7 



61.7 



86.6 
52.4 



50.2 



75.4 
76.0 



75.6 
32.0 



45.0 



6.5 
1.4 
12.0 




Per cent. 

34.8 
40.2 

54.4 
38.1 

19.2 

49.2 

46.0 
53.6 
56.8 
68.2 
34.8 
72.7 



88.3 
16.1 
83.4 
80.3 
49.9 
84.5 

80.8 
28.0 
82.9 
44.9 



34.7 



30.7 
77.8 
10.9 
36.7 
80.0 
70.8 
72.8 
73.2 



39.7 



37.8 



18.3 
19.2 



18.8 
56.9 



42.3 



Per cent. 



13.9 
19.0 

26.3 
30.0 

20.5 

15.8 

19.3 
23.7 
19.5 
19.6 
13.9 
21.7 

22.3 



6.0 
1.2 
8.8 
14.8 
5.0 
9.0 

10.6 
2.1 

10.5 
4.6 



3.2 



5.9 

18.1 
2.1 
7.9 
15.8 
25.4 
22.2 
21.7 

4.4 
36.0 



9.5 



5.2 
4.7 



4.9 
10.5 



9.7 



Farmers' Bulletin No. 85. By C. F. LanRWorthy, Ph. D. 
From the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



Per cent. 



21.2 
.4 



19.7 

8.8 

.1 

14.0 
12.1 
7.6 
8.7 
21.2 
4.1 

2.3 



1.3 
.2 

2.4 
.1 
.6 

1.3 

1.1 
.1 

.8 
.6 



.7 

1.1 

.1 

.9 

1.5 

1.0 

.3 

.1 

.1 
.5 



.9 
.1 



.5 
.1 



2.1 



Per cent. 



Per cent.' Per cent. Calories 



7.6 



3.3 
.7 
3.9 
3.4 
1.1 
2.9 

5.2 
1.4 
3.0 
2.2 



1.4 



.2 
.5 
.1 
.6 
.7 



3.7 



.2 
20.9 



1.0 



2.1 
1.2 



1.7 
a4.6 



1.0 

1.9 
5.3 
a2.0 
1.3 
2.1 
1.7 

1.6 



1.1 
.4 
1.5 
1.4 
1.5 
2.3 

2.3 

.9 

2.8 

1.0 



.8 
2.5 

.2 
1.5 
2.0 
2.6 
1.4 
1.3 

1.5 
2.9 



1.0 



.2 
.3 



.3 
.7 



37.2 
20.6 



61.9 

30.2 

16.9 

35.2 
41.1 
29.0 
29.6 
37.2 
27.5 

26.2 



11.7 
2.5 

16.6 

19.7 
8.2 

15.5 

19.2 
4.5 

17.1 
8.4 



5.9 



7.6 
22.2 

2.5 
10.9 
20.0 
29.2 
27.2 
26.8 

6.2 



12.0 



5.1 



5.7 
11.3 



12.7 



NOTES. 



[Leuon SOB] 



DIFFERENT WAYS OF PREPARINQ FISH 



[Page 131] 



FISH BALLS 



1 c. salt codflflh 

4 medium sized potatoes 



% tbsp. butter 
1 «gg 



Vb tsp. pepper 



Wash fish in cold water, and pick into small pieces. Wash, pare and cut potatoes in 
^-inch slices. Cook potatoes and codfish in boiling water to cover, until potatoes are soft. 
Drain oflf every drop of water, return to kettle, mash; add butter, egg well beaten, and 
pepper. Beat with a fork two minutes. Drop by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat. Fat should 
be very hot. Serve with White Sauce (see Lesson 47B). 

FISH CROQUETTES 

To 1 c. cold flaked fish, add % c. or more of thick white sauce (see Lesson 47B). Season 
with salt and pepper (lemon juice and onion juice if liked). Cool, shape into cutlets, etc., 
roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs again and fry in deep fat. (Lesson 46A.) 




2 c. cold flaked fish 
1 c. white sauce 



TURBAN OF FISH 



Lemon juice 

V2 c. buttered crumbs 



1/3 tsp. salt 

Few grs. of pepper 

Put a layer of fish on a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper and lemon juice. 
Cover with sauce, continuing with layers of fish and sauce until all are used, shaping in 
pyramid form. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a hot oven until crumbs are brown. 
Arrange a potato border around the mound of fish. Brush with beaten egg (diluted). 
Bake in oven until a golden brown. 



SALMON LOAF 



^ lb. canned salmon or 1 lb. fresh salmon 
2 tbsp. melted butter 
2 yolks eggs 
% tsp. salt 
Vs tsp. pepper 

Remove the bones from the salmon. 



y2 c. scalded milk 

1 tbsp. lemon juice (if liked) 

1 tsp. chopped parsley 
. ^2 c. soft crumbs 

2 stiffly beaten whites of eggs 



Add melted butter, beaten yolks, qalt, pepper, 
milk, lemon juice and parsley to the crumbs. Add mixture to the salmon. Fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites and steam in a well buttered and crumbed and closely covered mold one 
hour. 



[Pftg« 18S] BASIO PRINGIFLBS OF DOMBSTIO SdENOE [Luton 6U] 



SHELL FISH 

The shell fish commonly used are oysters, clams and scallops. Lobster, shrimps, and crabs 
altho crustaceans, are usually called shell fish. 

AN OYSTER has two shells. The one on which the oyster lies is deeper and rounder 
than the one that covers it. The oyster has two strong muscles, one to open the shell to 
take in food and wat^r, and the other to close it. 

The body is composed of the liver (containing glycogen, animal starch) surrounded by 
fluted layers, called gills. 

Oysters are five years old before suitable for eating. They are in season from September 
to May. They have about the same composition as milk. They are nutritious and of easy 
digestibility. 

According to Stutzer, 14 oysters contain the same amount of nourishment as one egg — 223 
as one pound of beef. One qt. of oysters is equal to 1 qt. of milk in the amount of nourish* 
ment contained. Raw oysters are more easily digested than cooked, but cooking destroys 
dangerous germs that may be present. 

The proteid in oysters is very delicate so that they should not be cooked too long nor at 
too high a temperature. 

HOW TO OPEN OYSTERS 

. Force a thin, sharp knife under the back of the shell that covers the oyster (the flatter 
of the two) and push forward until it cuts the muscle. Remove the top shell and separate 
the oyster from the under shell. 

HOW TO CLEAN OYSTERS 

Drain off the liquid of the oyster thru a wire strainer placed over a bowl. Pour over 
oysters cold water, using % c. to 1 qt. of oysters. Keep the liquor in the bowl. With the 
fingers examine each oyster separately to see that no bits of shell are left clinging to them. 

CLAMS rank next to oysters in food value. Little neck clams are served at dinner when 
Blue Points are not in season. At the beach, clams are sometimes cooked with seaweed over 
the fire. This is called a clam bake. Clam chowder, which is a stew, is a typical New 
England dish. 

Scallops. The central muscle forms the edible part. They are in season from October 
to April. 

LOBSTERS, CRABS, SHRIMPS 

Their flesh is similar in composition to that of other fish, but is tough and difficult to 
digest. 

Lobster. — ^The portions of lobster not edible are the lungs, stomach and intestinal vein. 

Crabs are in season during the spring and summer. 

Shrimps are in season from May to October. Always remove the intestinal vein from 
the shrimp. It looks like a black thread along the entire length. 



Oyi^tbrs on the half shbll 

Serve the oysters on the deep halves of the shells, allowing six to each person. Arrange 
shells on crushed ice on plates, small ends toward the center. Place a quarter of a lemon 
in the middle of each plate. 

OYSTER STEW 

1 pt. oysters 3 tbsp. butter % tsp. pepper (celery salt 

1 qt. scalded milk ^ tbsp. salt if liked) 

Clean the oysters (Lesson 51A), heat the liquor to boiling point, strain through double 
thicknesses of cheese cloth. Add salt, pepper and oyster liquor to the scalded milk. Heat to 
boiling point, reduce heat slightly, add the oysters and cook until the edges begin to curl. 
Add the butter and serve. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

1 c. oysters 1 c. white sauce (Lesson 47B) 

^ tsp. celery salt 

Clean the oysters, add the oysters to the hot white sauce and cook until the edges begin 
to curl. Serve on toast, in timbale cases, patty shells, etc. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS (See Lesson 12B) 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Clean the oysters, lay them on a clean cloth and pat them gently to dry them. Season 
with salt and pepper. Dip the oysters in cracker or bread crumbs, egg and crumbs again 
(see Lesson 46 A). Fry in deep, hot fat, using 90 seconds test, drain the same on soft paper. 
Serve on a folded napkin and garnish with parsley. 

VEGETABLE OYSTER STEW (See Lesson 11) 

Scrape salsify roots — keep under water. Cut into thin slices. Cook until soft in 1 qt. 
water to which has been added 1 tbsp. of vinegar and 1 tsp. salt. Rub thru a sieve, add to 
1 qt. thickened milk. Season with salt and pepper. Serve. 

NOTES: 



tl»age 134] bAStO PftmctPLfiS Ol^ DoMfiSTlC SCtfitiCfi! tteMoU i*A] 

PROTEID SPABERS— GELATINE 

A PROTEID SPARER 

GELATINE is obtained from cleaned bones, skin and connective tissues of animals. 
These are cooked in boiling water for a long time, thereby extracting the gelatinous 
substances. 

COMMERCIAL GELATINE is prepared by treating the connective tissues, etc., with a 
weak solution of caustic lye kept at a moderate temperature ten days, then raised to a higher 
temperature, the lye drained off, the tissues, etc., rinsed in clear water, purified with sulphur 
and again thoroly washed. The tissues are drained thoroly, melted over steam and the 
liquid gelatine strained off and poured into thin layers to cool. Gelatine is also made from 
fish bones. The purest form of gelatine called ISINGLASS, is made from the air-bladder of 
the sturgeon. 

Gelatine is highly nutritious. It is composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, 
and so has the composition of a proteid food but is not a tissue builder. It is called a 
PROTEID- SPARER. Its power as a proteid-sparer is about twice that of a carbohydrate. 

Gelatine is very easily digested. It is digested by the pepsin of the gastric juices in 
the stomach, and by the trypsin of the pancreatic juices in the smaller intestines. 

Gelatine is not soluble in cold water. 

Gelatine is soluble in HOT water. 

Gelatine should not be cooked in boiling liquid, as it will not solidify on cooling. 

GENERAL RULES 

Use two tbsp. granulated gelatine to 3^ cups liquid. 

Soak gelatine in cold water 20 minutes. Dissolve gelatine in boiling water, by pouring the 
boiling water onto the soaked (hydra ted) gelatine; or gelatine may be dissolved by placing 
the soaked gelatine over boiling water. Do not stir much while it is dissolving. 

Be sure that all the gelatine is dissolved before adding fruit juices, then add fruit juices, 
sugar, and a few grains of salt, strain thru a fine cloth, put in a cool place or on ice to 
harden. Takes 4 or 5 hours to harden in a refrigerator, 2 hours on ice. More gelatine may 
be used, and then it takes less time for it to harden. 

Remove gelatine from mold by putting mold into a pan of warm water, until the jelly 
loosens. Place inverted on serving dish. 

MEAT JELLIES 

Gelatine may be combined with cooked, sliced or ground, seasoned meat. 

Example: Jellied veal or chicken. If a knuckle of veal or fowl is cooked long enough 
and the stock reduced to about % cup from 4 lb. of meat and bone, there is enough gelatine 
extracted to mold the loaf without adding extra gelatine. 

NOTES: 



[Leison 52fi] 



GELATINE DESSERTS 
LEMON JELLY 



[Page 135] 



2 tbsp. granulated gelatine 
14 c. COLD water 



^2 c. lemon juice 
Rind 1 lemon 



2 to 2^^ c. boiling water 
1 c. sugar 

Soak gelatine 20 minutes in cold water, then dissolve in boiling water. 

Add sugar, the lemon juice and rind, strain into a mold and chill. 

Beating the lemon jelly while it is jelly-like with a Dover egg-beater will make it white 
and fluffy. 

Orange, Raspberry, or other fruit jelly may be made in the same way using Yo c. of the 
fruit juice with lemon juice to taste. 






^.>r ^ SNOW PUDDING 

May be m'fede by preparing one-half the recipe of LEMON JELLY. When mixtude begins 
to jelly, l^at with a Dover egg-beater until frothy, add the stiflSy beaten whites of three> 
eggs and continue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape. Serve this with custard 
sauce (Lesson 14B). The whites may be omitted. 

PUDDING A LA MACEDOINE 

Prepare lemon jelly mixture. Place a mold in pan of ice water, pour in mixture % inch 
deep. When firm, decorate with fruit. Cover fruit with some of the lemon jelly mixture. 
When firm, add more fruit and mixture. Repeat until all is used, each time allowing mixture 
to stiffen before fruit is added. Oranges, bananas, dates, figs, etc., may be used. 

NOTE. — The coloring tablet found in the gelatine packages may be used to color the 
jelly mixtures, altho fruit juices may be used to give the desired color. 

NOTES: 



[Page 186] 



BAStC PttmotPLfiS OF tX)liiESttC 8Gt£t7C& 

TDf GIMT8 WILL PUBOHAAI: 



ttetebn 63-Aj 



From Farmer's Bulletin No. 142. 
U. 8. Department of Agnculture. 



KIND OF FOOD MATIBIAL 


Price 

per 

Pound 


Total 
Weight of 

Food 
Material 


Frotmn 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drates 


Energy 


Beef, sirloin 


Cents 
25 
16 
12 

6 
26 
16 
20 
12 
22 
12 
10 
18 

7 
12 
25 
18 
20 
25 
30 
24 
16 
16 

3* 

6* 
10 
U 

\ 

U 

r 7 


Pounds 
0.40 
0.63 
0.83 
2.00 
0.40 
0.63 
0.50 
0.83 
0.45 
0.83 
1.00 
0.56 
1.43 
0.83 
0.40 
0.56 
0.50 
0.40 
0.83 
0.42 
0.68 
0.63 
2.85 
3.33 
3.33 
4.00 
4.00 
1.33 
1.33 
2.50 
1.25 
2.00 
2.50 
2.00 
2.00 
4.00 
2.00 
1.00 
6.67 
10.00 
13.33 
10.00 
6.67 
1.43 
1.67 
1.43 
1.67 


Pounds 
0.06 
0.11 
0.13 
0.29 
0.10 
0.08 
0.07 
0.11 
0.06 
0.02 
0.11 
0.08 
0.22 
0.18 
0.02 
0.10 
0.01 


Pounds 
0.06 
0.08 
0.08 
0.28 
0.03 
0.17 
0.07 
0.19 
0.14 
0.68 


Pounds 


Calories 
410 


B^f , pound . . - , , 




560 


Beef, shoulder olod 




595 


Beef, stew meat 




1530 


Beef, dried, chipped 




315 


Mutton chops, lom 




890 


Mutton, leg 




445 


BocuBt pork, U^ 




1035 


Pork, smoked ham 




735 


Pork.fatsalt 




2950 


Codfish, dressed, fresh 




220 


Halibut, frwh . . 


0.02 
0.01 
0.10 




265 


Cod. salt 




465 


Baln^on, canned 




760 


Oystcors, solids, 50c per at 


0.01 


90 


Ix>bBter. canned . 


0.01 
0.40 
0.32 
0.27 
0.04 
0.06 
0.20 
0.11 
0.13 
0.03 
0.04 
0.07 
0.02 
0.09 
0.16 


225 


Butter 




1705 


Do 




1365 


Do 






1125 


RggH, 36o p«»» dnatm 


0.05 
0.07 
0.16 
0.09 
0.11 
0.32 
0.39 
0.31 
0.13 
0.19 
0.34 
0.08 
0.16 
0.20 
0.15 
0.35 
0.05 
0.02 
0.02 
0.10 
0.15 
0.20 
0.08 
0.02. 
0.01 
0.01 
0.01 




260 


Eggs! 24c per dosen 




385 


CEeese. . .'. 


0.02 
0.14 
0.17 
2.45 
2.94 
2.96 
0.98 
0.86 
1.66 
0.97 
1.04 
1.30 
1.04 
1.16 
0.18 
.0.05 
0.18 
0.93 
1.40 
1.87 
0.54 
0.65 
0.18 
0.13 
[0.09 
1.67 


1185 


Milk. 7c per quart 


885 


Milk, 6c pw quart 


1030 


Wheat flour. .' 


5440 


Do 


6540 


Com meal, granular ... ...... 


6540 


Wheat breakfast food 


2235 


Oat breakfast food 


2395 


Oatmeal 


4500 


Rice 


2025 


Do 


0.02 
0.03 
0.01 
0.03 
0.01 


2400 


Do 


3000 


Rye bread 


2340 


Beans, white, dried 


3040 


Cabbage 


460 


Celery 


130 


C-om, canned 


0.01 
0.01 
0.01 
0.01 
0.01 
0.02 
0.01 


430 


Potatoes, 90o per bushel 


1970 


Potatoes. 60c per bushel 


2950 


Potatoes, 45c per bushel 


3935 


Turnips 


1200 


Apples 


1270 


Bananas 


370 


On^ngm , 


250 


Strawbeiries. 


0.01 


215 


Sugar 


2920 



tteMOU 68^1 



OlELATtNB I>SflBKRTS-OoiitiBtt«l 



tlP*g« 18»] 



SPANISH CR£AM 



2 tbsp. granulated gelatine 

3 c. milk 



3 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

% c. sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Vs tsp. salt 

Reserve % e. milk to soak gelatine. Scald the remaining 2% c. of milk. Separate the 
eggs, beat the yolks, add the sugar and salt; stir in the scalded milk slowly and cook in double 
boiler until custard thickens, stirring all the time. Remove from fire, add the soaked gelatine 
and stir until dissolved, then strain. Beat the whites until stiff, fold into mixture. Flavor 
and turn into cold wet mold. Chill. 




LEMON PUDDING 



1^ tbsp. granulated gelatine 
l^ c. cold water 



% c. sugar 
4 yolks 



4 whites 

Juice and rind 1 lemon 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Dissolve over boiling water. Beat yolks until thick 
and lemon-colored. Add sugar gradually; beat thoroly; add the dissolved gelatine mixed with 
the lemon juice and rind. Stir until it begins to thicken, then fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Place in a mold and chill. Serve with sweetened and flavored whipped cream 
(Lesson 37B). 



2% tbsp. granulated gelatine 
% c. cold water 
Mi c. boiilng water 



ORANGE CHARLOTTE 



1 c. sugar 

1 c. orange juice 

Grated rind of 1 



orange 



2 tbsp. lemon juice 
Whip from 3 c. cream 



Soak gelatine in cold water. Dissolve in boiling water. Add sugar, fruit juice and rind. 
Set bowl in ice water, stir constantly until it begins to thicken, then fold in whip from 
cream, adding Va at a time. Line a mold with orange sections. Fill mold and chill. 

Strawberries, raspberries, pineapple, etc., may be used in place of the orange. 



[Page 138] 



BASIC PRINOIPLES OF DOMESTIC SdENOE 



[Lesson 64A] 



TEST QUESTIONS 




COURSE LUNCHEON 
Color — Green and White 

I. Cream of Potato Soup. 

II. Jellied Veal with Creamed Potatoes. Mint Ice. 
III. Lettuce and Banana Salad, 

rV. Ice Cream in Angel's Cake Basket. Angelica or candy handle. 
V. CoflFee. 



[Lesson i4B] 



PRACTICE TEST 



t^ge 180] 




SIMPLE DINNER 
MENU I— Red Color Scheme 

Tomato Soup 
Radishes Croutons 



Meat Loaf 



Mashed Potatoes 



Buttered Beets 



Blanc Mange 



Strawberry Sauce 



MENU II 
Vegetable Soup 

Braized Breast of Lamb 
Mashed Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes 

Fruit Salad 
Prune Whip Custard Sauce 



COST OF PREPARING ABOVE MENUS TO SERVE SIX 
Materials Quantity Cost 



[t^tge 1401 



fiASIO PHlNOtPLilS OF tX)M£SttC SCtElTCb 



STUFFED EGGS 

1 hard cooked egg 

1 tsp. finely chopped ham 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

% c. scalded milk 
% egg 



INDIVIDUAL BECIPES— SEME8TEB m. 

LESSON 356 

3 tbsp. white sauce 

LESSON 366 

% tsp. vanilla 



2 tbsp. buttered crumbs 



2 tbsp. sugar 
1-16 tsp. salt 

LESSON 376 



COTTAGE CHEESE 

% c. sour milk 
%tsp. butter 



Few grs. salt 
1 tsp. cream 



LESSON 386 



CHEESE FONDUE 

2 tbsp. scalded milk 
2 tbsp. bread crumbs 
4 tbsp. cheese (cut fine) 
^ tsp. butter 
1-16 tsp. salt 
%. yolk and % beaten 
white 



CHEESE STRAWS 

1% tbsp. flour 
Few grs. salt 
% tsp. butter 
2 tbsp, bread crumbs 
2 tbsp. grated cheese 
1 tsp. milk (or enough to 
make a dough) 



VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Vs c. cream 
1 tbsp. sugar 
Vs tsp. vanilla 

Add walnuts or ^ square 
chocolate melted and cooked 
with 1 tbsp. sugar, 2 tbsp. boil- 
ing water. 



TOMATO SAUCE 

^ c. water 

^ c. tomato juice 

^ slice onion 



6EEF STEW 

1 small piece of meat 
1% tsp. flour 
1 slice turnip 
1 slice carrot 
1 slice onion 



LESSON 396 
MILE SHER6ET 



% c. milk 

2 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. lemon juice (level) 



LESSON 406 

1 clove 
Yq tsp. salt 
1 tsp. butter 

LESSON 416 



LESSON 40B 

6EEF LOAF 

2 tbsp. chopped meat 

4 drops onion juice 

Va tsp. salt 

Few grs. pepper 

1 tsp. beaten egg 

^/4 tsp. chopped parsley 

^ tsp. chopped suet 

1 tbsp. bread crumbs 

2 tsp. milH 



2 tsp. flour and 2 tsp. water 
Prepare mashed potato, using 
1 potato. 



4 slices potato 
% c. water or more 
^4 tsp. salt 
Few grs. pepper 



Small piece of suet to 
brown half of meat 
Prepare beef stock omittingj 
flour and potatoes, as shown in 
beef stew recipe. 
DEMONSTRATE 6EEF A LA MODE 



HAM6URG STEAK 

2 tbsp. chopped meat 
Yq tsp. salt 



VEAL 6IRDS 

1 thin slice veal 

3 tbsp. bread crumbs 

% tsp. butter 



LESSON 426 

Few grs. pepper 
1 tsp. milk 

LESSON 436 

% tsp. chopped parsley 
Few drops onion juice 
Few grs, celery salt 



Few drops onion juice 



Vs tsp. salt 

Few grs. pepper 

1 tsp. milk or stock 



IMDiyiDUAL RIQIPB8 



[Pige 141] 



ZNDIVIDnAL BE0IPE&--SEME8TEB m. 



LESSON 46B 



VEAL CROQUSTTES 
^ e. chopped veal 
% tap. salt 
2 tbsp. THICK sauce 

(level) 
Vs yolk 



POTATO CROQUETTES 
^ e. need potatoes 
Few grs. celery salt 
Ys tsp. chopped parsley 
^ tsp. butter 
Vb egg yolk 



¥ISH BALLS 

^ c. cod fish 
1 potato 

% tsp. butter 
1 tbsp. egg 



LESSON SOB 

SALMON LOAF 
2 tbsp. salmon 
% tsp. butter 
% yolk 

Few grs. pepper 
1 tbsp. crumbs 



2 tsp. milk 
Vs tsp. parsley 
1-16 tsp. salt 
% white 



LESSON 51B 
OYSTER STEW 



6 oysters 

% c. scalded milk 



1 tsp. butte..' 
Vs tsp. salt 



LEMON JELLY 

1 tsp. (slightly rounding) 
granulated gelatine 

2 tbsp. cold water 



LESSON 52B 

Yl c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 



% tsp. lemon rind 



LEMON PUDDING 

1 tsp. gelatine 

2 tbsp. cold water 
2 tbsp. sugar 

1 beaten yolk 
1 beaten white 
1 tbsp. lemon juice 



LESSON 63B 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE 

1 tsp. gelatine 

2 tbsp. cold water 

1 tbsp. boiling water 

2 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. orange juice 
Grated rind % orange 



• ] >Jssolve over boiling water 



1 tsp. lemon juice 
Ys c. whipped cream 



NOTES: 



[Page 148] BASIC PRmCIPLXS OF DOMBSTIC SCISKCB 



NOTBS: [Pi«e 148] 



[Page 144] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 145] 



[Page 146] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE [Lesson 55A] 

HEAT PRODUCERS 

FATS AND OILS 

(See Lesson 16A) 

SOURCE. — Fats and oils are obtained from the animal and veg'etable kingdoms. They 
contain three substances: Stearin (solid), Palmitin (semi-solid)^ Olein (liquid). 

USES IN THE BODY. — The fats and oils store up heat and energy; they also act as a 
lubricant. 

IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM fat is found in layers under the skin, around the kidneys 
and other vital organs, about the joints, between the vertebrae, in all tissues, in the blood 
stream and around the nerves. The source of fat in the body, is to a certain extent 
from the fat of food, also from decomposition of the proteids and a large proportion of carbo- 
hydrates. Among the animal fats, cream and butter are the most important on account of 
their easy assimilation. 

FAT IS THE MOST VALUABLE to poorly nourished people, convalescents, consump- 
tives, diabetics, nervous people, growing children, and those who have poor blood (anemics). 

DIGESTION OF FATS. — Fat is acted upon by the steapsin of the pancreatic juices and 
the bile in the smaller intestines, where it is divided into such tiny globules that it can be 
readily absorbed by the cell walls. 

WHY FRIED FOOD AND PASTRY ARE HARD TO DIGEST.— Fat is not acted upon by 
the saliva in the mouth, nor the gastric juices in the stomach; so when particles of food 
which should be acted upon by these fluids are entirely coated with grease they cannot be 
reached and therefore enter the smaller intestines undigested. Here the fat is removed from 
them by the action of the pancreatic juices, which do their best to digest all, but as they were 
not intended to do all the work, much of the food is passed on undigested. In pastry there 
is also another reason, namely, that so little water is added to the fat coated starch granules 
that they cannot swell and burst sufficiently. Starch grains must absorb water, swell and 
burst before they can be digested. 

REMEMBER, it is the part of the food that comes in contact with the hot fat in frying 
that is rendered difficult of digestion. Follow directions for frying in Lesson 46A. 

EXAMPLES OF ANIMAL FATS are fat of meats, as in bone-marrow, suet, fat of fish, 
fat of milk and eggs. Among the animal fats, cream and butter are the most important on 
account of their easy assimilation. 

EXAMPLES OF VEGETABLE FATS are the fat found in seeds, fruits and nuts. 

Cream, butter, olive oil, bacon, corn meal, oatmeal, nuts and chocolate, are fats valuable 
for the fat they contain. 

When a recipe calls for melted shortening, melt fat over hot water. 

To add butter to soups and sauces after they are taken off the fire is considered the best 
way. Over-heated butter loses some of its flavor and is difficult to digest. 

Never throw away pieces of fat; try them out and save them for cooking purposes. 

Butter is considered the most valuable fat when it is fresh and sweet. Rancid butter 
should not be used. When butter is expensive substitutes may be used. Oatmeal and corn- 
meal are rich in fat and furnish the body with fat in an inexpensive form. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 55B] 



BACON RECIPES 



[Page 147] 



BACON— I 

Take off the rind and cut bacon into thin slices. Cook in a hot frying pan, turning slices 
frequently until crisp and brown, or cover bottom of frying pan with water, put in bacon, 
cook until water has evaporated, then continue cooking, turning slices until nicely browned. 
Drain on soft paper. 

BACON n 

Put thin slices of bacon in a broiler placed over a dripping pan and bake in a hot oven 
until bacon is crisp. Turn once during baking. Drain on soft paper. Oysters may be wrapped 
in thin slices of bacon and baked in this way. 




LIVER AND BACON 

Cut 1 lb. of liver into % inch slices. Cover with boiling water, let stand 5 minutes to 
draw out the blood; drain, remove veins and skin. Wipe the liver, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and cook in hot bacon fat until brown on both sides, turning occasionally. Make a 
gravy, using 2 tbsp. of the bacon fat and 4 tbsp. of 'flour. Brown the two in a pan, add 2 c. 
boiling water gradually and stir until smooth, season with salt and pepper. Put the browned 
slice of liver into the gravy and cook slowly 15 minutes. Put liver and gravy on a hot dish, 
arrange the crisp bacon around the edge and serve. Liver may be larded and baked in one 
large piece. 




Baked Beans and Brown Bread 



BAKED BEANS 

1 qt. beans 1 tsp. salt ^ c. molasses 

14 lb. salt fat pork 1 tsp. mustard 

Pick over and wash pea beans; cover with cold water and soak over night. In the 
morning drain, cover with fresh water and cook slowly below boiling point until soft, then 
drain. Put % inch slices of salt pork fat in bottom of an earthen bean pot or covered crock. 
Put beans in pot and bury the remaining pork (which should be gashed in several places) in 
the beans. Mix the salt, mustard and molasses in a cup; fill the cup with boiling water and 
pour the mixture over the beans. Add enough more boiling water to cover beans. Cover 
bean pot, put in oven, and bake in a moderate oven 8 hours. If baked a long time they become 
dark and have a rich flavor. One cup butter naay be used instead of the pork. 



[Page 148] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SdENOB 

PI 
DIGESTION 



[LeBBon 5 6 A] 



CALL BLAOOEft 

OPENING OF 
PANCPE^AS 
AND LiVEfi 




OESOPHAGUS 



STOMACH 

PANCREAS 
■SPL££N 

LARCE INTeSTINC 



SMALLtNTE^TlNE 



VENT 



Before the food we eat becomes blood and later the bone, nerve, muscle, skin, hair, 
etc., it undergoes a number of changes. 
The processes are: 

1. Digestion. 

2. Absorption. 

3. Assimilation. 

4. Elimination. 

Digestion is the process by which the food taken into the body is changed by the action 
of the digestive fluids into a liquid form, so that it can be absorbed by the cell walls. 

Absorption is the process by which the digested food passes thru the cell walls (villi) 
into the blood and lymph stream, so that it can be carried to the parts where it is needed. 

Assimilation is the process by which the absorbed food is made like the different parts 
of the body. When a cell needs nourishment or repair it selects from the blood stream the 
necessary material for its use. 

Elimination is the process by which useless material like undigested food and waste 
materials formed by chemical changes are excreted by the skin, lungs, kidneys and the large 
intestines. (See Lesson 15 A.) 

FIVE IMPORTANT ORGANS OF DIGESTION 
Organ Digestive Fluid Ferment Nature of Ferment Substance acted upon 



1. Mouth Saliva Ptyalin Alkaline 



Starchf 



Stomach ...Gastric ... j and Sroch^l^^^^^^^^ * ^'""'^'^'^ 



4. Pancreas 



and hydrochloric acid 

Small intestines. — INTESTINAL Acid and Alkaline. . .Starch, proteids, fatf* 

Amylopsin Starchf 

Trypsin Alkaline Proteidej 

Steapsin Fats* 

5. Liver Bile Neutral Fats* 

*The pancreas secretes the pancreatic juice and the liver secretes the bile, but no food is 
digested in them. 

The pancreatic juices and liver pour into the intestines their digestive fluids and these 
complete the process of digestion, as they act upon all foods. 

fSee Lesson 16 A. J See Lesson 3 5 A. * See Lesson 5 5 A. 



[Lesson 56B] 



FAT AS A FRYING MEDIUM 



[Page 149] 




DOUGHNUTS— I 

1 c. sugar 1 c. milk % tsp. cinnamon 

2^4 tbsp. butter 3% c. flour — add enough to roU^ tsp. grated nutmeg 

3 eggs 5 tsp. baking powder 1% tsp. salt 

Cream the butter; add % of the sugar. Beat eggs until light, add milk, remaining sug^r, 
and combine mixtures. Add the flour mixed and sifted with baking powder, salt and spices, 
then enough more flour to make a dough stiff enough to rolL Toss % of mixture onto floured 
board, knead slightly, pat and roll out to % inch thickness. Shape with a doughnut cutter, 
dipped in flour. Fry in deep fat and drain on brown paper. Brown the doughnuts on one side, 
then turn and brown on the other. They should be turned only once unless turned immedi- 
ately after rising to the top of the fat. Doughnuts should rise to the top almost immediately 
when put into smoking hot fat. 

DOUGHNUTS— II 

5 c. flour 1 tsp. salt 1 c. cream 

1 tsp.8oda y^ tsp. cinnamon 3 beaten eggs 

3 tsp. cream of tartar Vs tsp. grated nutmeg 1 c. sugar 

Mix and sift flour, soda and cream of tartar and seasonings. Beat the eggs and add 
the sugar and cream. Add to dry ingredients and mix with a knife; add enough flour to make 
a dough stiff enough to roll. Pat, roll and shape as in Recipe I. 



SOUR MILE DOUGHNUTS 



4 c. flour — add enough to 1 tsp. B. P. 

knead % tsp. salt 

1 tsp. soda 1 well beaten egg 

^ tsp. cinnamon 1 c. sugar 

Mix according to directions for Doughnut Recipe 11. 

Add enough flour to knead, pat, roll, shape and fry as in Recipe I. 



% c. sweet milk 

% c. sour milk 

1 tsp. melted butter 




APPLE FRITTERS 
2 apples cut in cubes 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. flour 3 tbsp. sugar 1 egg 

^ tsp. salt 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk to the well beaten egg; combine mixtures, then 
add the apples. Drop by spoonfuls and fry in deep fat, dipping the spoon into hot fat 
between eadi spoonful. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



[Page 150] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SOENCE [Leason 57A] 

STEASQNa 

STEAMING is cooking over the steam from boiling water. 

STEAMING may be done in a perforated steamer over a kettle containing boiling water. 

A cooker or sterilizer may be used. 

Cooking in the upper part of a double boii^x vvhere the steam does not come in direct 
contact with the food is called dry steaming. 

Foods cooked in the upper part of the double boiler do not reach the boiling point of 
water, which is 212 deg. F. Salt added to the water in the lower part of the double boiler 
will raise the temperature. 

A double boiler is most useful for making custards, scalding milk, and cooking cereals, 
as it insures even cooking, prevents it from wasting or drying on the boiler, makes stirring 
unnecessary, and removes all chances of burning, so long as there is water in the lower part 
of the double boiler. 

Steaming is a slower process than boiling. 

Tough meats, hams, fruit cakes, puddings, etc., require a long moist heat. 

Fish, potatoes, sweet corn, rice, peas, beans, squash, cucumbers, and pumpkins, may be 
steamed to advantage. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR STEAMED MIXTURES 

A mold, a tin pail or a can with a tightly -fitting cover, may be used. 

Grease the inside of the mold thoroly. 

The molds may be covered with buttered paper, or the inside of the cover buttered, and 
this should be tied down securely. 

The cans should be filled two-thirds full. 

Place the mold on a trivet or several layers of soft paper in a large kettle, containing 
enough boiling water to reach half way to the top of the mold. 

Keep the water boiling all the time during the steaming. Add more boiling waiter 
if necessary. 

Cover the kettle during the steaming, and be careful not to jar it while cooking. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 57B] 



STEAMED MIXTURES 



[Page 151] 



STEAMED BREAD 

1^/^ c. graham flour 1 c. Indian meal % c. molasses 

1 tsp. salt 1/^ tbsp. soda 1% c. milk 

Mix and stir the dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk. Fill cans % full, and steam 
three hours in a large mold. Less time is required if cooked in small baking powder or cocoa 




ENTIRE WHEAT PUDDING 

1^ c. entire wheat flour ^4 c. molasses 2 tbsp. butter, melted 

¥2 tspr soda % c. milk or water 1 c. chopped raisins 

V2 tsp. salt 1 egg beaten 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk. Add beaten egg and melted butter, 
then the raisins. Chopped figs or dates may be used. Steam 2^4 hours in a large mold. 

HARD SAUCE 

% c. butter V2 tsp. lemon extract % tsp. vanilla extract 

1 c. powdered sugar 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and flavoring. 

HUNTER'S PUDDING 

•?{. c. chopped suet % tsp. soda Va tsp. allspice 

% c. molasses 1 tsp. salt Va tsp. cinilamon 

% c. milk Vs tsp. clove • 1 c. raisins in 2 tbsp. flour 

2 c. flour Vs tsp. mace % c. chopped nut meats 

Mix in the order given. Steam 2^ hours. Serve with yellow sauce. 

YELLOW SAUCE 

2 eggs 1 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Beat yolks of eggs; add sugar gradually. 
Fold in stiflSy beaten whites; flavor. 

PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS 

1 qt. cooked mashed carrots 
X lb. finely chopped suet 

% c. sugar 

2 c. flour 1 

1% tsp. salt I 

1 tsp. cinnamon V Sift together 

% tap. clove j 

% grated nutmeg J 

% lb. currants ^ 

% lb. raisins y Dredge with flour. 

% lb. citron J 

Mix ingredients in order given. Steam 3% hours in a buttered mold. May be steamed 
in individual molds. Carrots should be forced thru a fine strainer. 



[Page 152] 



BASIC PRINCrPLES OF DOMESTIC SQENCE 



[Lesson 58 A] 




BREAD AND BREAD MAKING 

The word bread comes from ancient words meaning to bruise, break or pound. It also 
conveys that it is made from crushed or ground grain. Many different kinds of grains are 
used in different countries. In the United States, wheat is the grain most commonly used. 
Bread is often spoken of as the staff of life. 




Milk and water bread is considered the best combination. The liquids used should 
always be scalded to kill any dust plants that might be present. The liquids should be 
lukewarm before the yeast is added. Why? 

Essential ingredients for bread making are: Flour, liquid and a leavening agent. Salt, 
sugar and shortening are added to give flavor. 

Flour (see Lesson 23). 

Experiments with flour: 

I. Put 4 tbsp. white flour into a piece of double cheese-cloth. Wash this in a glass 
containing cold water until the water becomes cloudy. Divide in two. 

(a) Test one-half of it with iodine. What is the result? 

(b) Pour the other half into a saucepan and heat it to boiUng point. What is tlie 
result ? 

(c) Examine the sticky substance left in the cheese cloth. Knead it until it is 
elastic and rubber-like. Test it with iodine. What is the result? 

It should be free from starch and represent the proteid matter in wheat called gluten. 
It is this gluten that gives the flour the power to hold the gas bubbles formed by the action 
of yeast. 

Liquid. (See Lesson 31A.) 

Milk produces the whitest and most tender loaf. 

Water produces a loaf that will keep moist the longest. 



[Lesson 58B] 



ROLLS 



[Page 153] 




1 c. boiling water 
1 c. scalded milk 



(See Lesson 31A.) 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

3 tbsp. sugar 3 tbsp. butter 

1 tap. salt Flour 

1 yeast cake mixed with % c. lukewarm water 



Add sugar, salt and butter to milk and water. When lukewarm, add the yeast cake 
mixed with the water and three cups flour. Beat vigorously; add more flour to make a 
dough. Rub a little flour on the moulding board and turn the dough onto it. Dust a little 
Hour on the palm of your hands, and knead the dough until it is smooth and elastic to the 
touch, and will not stick to the board or hands. Return to bowl, cover closely, and let it 
stand in a warm place until double its bulk. Turn the dough on a board and knead again 
until no large bubbles can be seen. Sliape dough into biscuits, let rise again, then with the 
handle of a case-knife dipped in flour, crease thru the middle of each biscuit, or roll with 
rolling pin to oblong shape. Brush ^^ of each with melted butter, fold and press together. 
Place in greased pans, one inch apart; cover, let rise and bake in a hot oven 12 to 15 
minutes. 

CLOVER-LEAF biscuits may be made by shaping round biscuits; brush them with 
melted butter; drop three of them into each well greased muffin pan. Let rise and bake. 




Different Shapes 



SWEET ROLLS 

1 c. milk Va: c. sugar Yolks of 3 

1 tsp. salt ^ c. melted butter Grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 yeast cake mixed with % c. lukewarm water. Flour. 

Scald the milk; add the salt and sugar; when lukewarm add the yeast mixture and 
1^ c. flour; beat well, cover and let rise until double its bulk. Add the butter, well beaten 
yolks, lemon rind and enough flour to knead. Knead, let rise again until double its bulk. 
Shape, place in a buttered pan, let rise again and bake. Few grains of ground cardamon may 
be added. 

NOTE. — Use as little flour as possible on the board when kneading the dough. Remove 
biscuits from the pan as soon as baked, and cool so the air may circulate freely around the 
biscuits. If tender crust is desired, rub the crust with a little butter just before taking the 
biscuits from the oven. 



[Page 154] BASIC PRINGIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 59 A] 

TEAST AND ITS ACTION 

(See Lesson 30A.) 

Compressed yeast is usually yeast obtained from the froth of beer. 

Eecipe for home-made yeast: 
5 small or 4 large grated l^ c. sugar 1 yeast cake mixed with ^2 c.. 

potatoes 2 tbsp. salt lukewarm water 

1 qt. boiling water 
Add grated potatoes to boiling water and boil 5 minutes while stirring. Cool, add sugar, 
salt and yeast cake mixture. Pour into a stone or glass jar, cover, and let stand in a warm 
place for 3 hours or more. Each time mixture reaches top of jar stir it down. Do this until 
fermentation ceases, then put away in a cool place. Cover. 

Use ^ cupful of this in place of one yeast cake when making bread or biscuits. 

Use until there is only '^^ cupful left, then prepare according to recipe above, using the 
^ cupful of yeast in place of the yeast cake. 

Mechanical processes are: 

1. Mixing. 

2. Beating. 

3. Kneading and Molding. 

MIXING 

The flour should be thoroly mixed with a sufficient quantity of liquid so that each grain 
of flour may be thoroly hydrated (water-soaked), the sugar dissolved and the gluten suffi- 
ciently moistened. 

BEATING 

The mixture should be thoroly beaten to enclose as much air as possible and to distribute 
these air cells. Beating the mixture will make it elastic. The longer it is beaten the less 
kneading is required. 

KNEADING 

The mixture should be kneaded thoroly to make the gluten elastic, to break the bubbles 
and to distribute evenly the C02, thereby forming a fine-grained loaf. 

Molding is simply the shaping of the dough into loaves. 

BAKING 

Bread is baked — 1. To cook the starch. 2. To expand the gases and to harden the cell 
walls. 3. To kill the yeast plants. 4. To evaporate the alcohol formed. 5. To brown the 
crust. 

NOTE: 



[Lesaon 59B] 



BREAD 



[Page 155] 




(See Lesson 30A.) 



WHITE BREAD 



1 c. scalded milk 
1 c. boiling water 
1 tbsp. butter 



1 tbsp. lard 
l^t tsp. salt 
1 tbsp. sugar 



1 yeast cake mixed with % c. 

lukewarm water 
6 c. flour 



Add butter, lard, salt and sugar to the milk and water; let stand until lukewarm; add 
yeast cake mixed with the lukewarm water and 5 cups flour. Stir until smooth, then add 
enough flour (gradually) to make a dough stiff enough to knead. Turn the dough onto a 
floured board, knead until smooth and elastic to the touch. Return to bowl, cover closely, 
and let it stand in a warm place until double its bulk. Knead again and shape into loaves, 
and place in greased pans. Cover. Let it rise until double its bulk. Bake in a hot oven 
50 to 60 minutes. Have the crusts brown on all sides. 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

1 c boiling water Vs c molasses 4% c. coarse entire wheat flour 

1 c. scalded ^ilk 1 tsp. salt 2% c. flour 

1 yeast cake dissolved in ^ c. lukewarm water 

Add sweetening and salt to milk; cool, and when lukewarm add yeast cake mixture and 
5 c. floiu' mixed and sifted. Beat mixture well; add enough flour to make a dough stiff 
enough to knead; knead, cover and let rise to double its bulk. Knead again, shape, place in 
greased bread pans, having pans ^ full. Let rise and bake. 



RYE BREAD 

May be made as directed for entire wheat bread, using rye flour in place of the whole 
wheat flour. 

Remember to let dough rise to double its bulk each time. 



[Page 156] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 60J 

CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 




(See Lesson 28) 

ORANGE FILLING 

^A c. sugar 1 egg slightly beaten % c. orange juice 

2 tbsp. flour Grated rind ^ orange 1 tsp. lemon juice 

Mix sugar and flour; add other ingredients in order given. Cook 10 minutes in a doub] 
boiler, stirring constantly until thickened. Cool before spreading. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

1 tbsp. orange juice Yolk 1 egg Grated rind 1 orange 

1 tsp. lemon juice Confectioners' sugar 

Add rind to the fruit juices; let stand 15 minutes, strain and add gradually to yol 
of egg slightly beaten. Stir in sugar imtil of right consistency to spread. 

PLAIN FROSTING j 

White 1 egg 2 tsp. cold water % c. confectioners sugar 

^i tsp. vanilla 

Beat the white of egg until stiff; add water and sugar gradually. Beat thoroly an 
add the flavoring. Use more sugar if needed. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM 

1 c. sugar White 1 egg ^ tbsp. lemon juice 

Va c. boiling water 1 tsp. vanilla 

Boil sugar and water in a saucepan until it forms 2-inch "threads" when tried with 
fork, or imtil it forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour syrup gradually into beaten white c 
egg;; beat constantly until of right consistency to spread. Add flavoring and pour over cak 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

1^ c. sugar 1 sq. chocolate ^ tsp. vanilla 

% c. milk 1 tsp. butter 

Put butter in a saucepan; when melted add the sugar, milk and chocolate. Boil 1 
minutes, or until it makes a soft ball when tried in cold water. Let stand until cooler 
Beat until creamy. Add flavoring and pour over cake. 



[Lesson 60B] 



CAKES 



[Page 157] 




White Cake with Cocoanut Frosting 



WHITE CAKE 



V2 c. 
1^4 c, 



butter 
sugar 



Whites 4 

1% tsp. vanilla 



eggs 
lillf 



2V3 c. flour 
3 tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, then milk alternately with the flour sifted with 
' the baking powder. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Add the flavoring and bake in layers 
about 15 minutes. Frost with White Mountain Cream Frosting. 

PLAIN CAKE 
14 c. butter 1 egg 1 Vj c. flour 

14 c. sugar Mi e. milk 2^; tsp. baking powder 

I Cream the butter; add sugar gradually and egg well beaten. Mix and sift flour and 

baking powder; add alternately with milk. Bake 30 minutes in a shallow pan. 




ORANGE CAKE 

^ c. butter 2 eggs Vj c. milk 

1 c. sugar Rind Vj orange 1% c. flour 

2% tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, eggs well beaten, and milk. Then add flour 
mixed and sifted with baking powder and orange rind. Bake in round layer cake pans. 
Put Orange Filling between layers, and cover top with Orange Frosting. 

May be baked in individual tins and frosted with confectioners' or White Mountain 
Cream Frosting. Decorate with nuts, angelica candied cherries, etc. See illustration. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

5^ c. butter % c. milk 2 oz. chocolate 

1 c. sugar 1% c. flour % tsp. vanilla 

2 eggs 2% tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, eggs well beaten, and milk. Add flour mixed 
and sifted with baking powder. Beat thoroly, then add chocolate and vanilla. Bake in layers. 
Frost with White Mountain Cream Frosting to which 3 tbsp. of grated chocolate have been 
added. 



[Page 158] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 61 A] 



BULLKTIN No. 28.— A?erage Compotition of American Food Products 



FOOD MATERIALS 

(as purchased) 



Refuse 



Water 



Protein 



Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Ash 



Fuel 

Value 

perPound 



EGGS: Hens' eaa 

DADRY PRODUCTS, ETC.: 

Butter 

Whole Milk 

SkimMUk 

Buttermilk 

Condensed milk 

Cream 

Cheeeet Cheddar 

Cheese, full cream 

VEGETABLE FOOD. 
FJiOUR. MEAL, ETC.: 

Entire Wheat Flour 

Graham flour 

Wheat flour, patent roller process. < 

High grade and medium 

Low ^ade 

Crushed wheat 

Buckwheat floiu- 

Com meal 

Oatmeal 

Rice 4 

Tapioca 

Starch ^_i. 

BREAD, PASTRY, ETC.: 

White bread 

Blown Bread 

Graham bread 

Whole wheat Bread 

Rye Bread 

Cake 

Cream Crackers 

Oyster crackers 

Soda crackers 

MacaroDJ^. 

SUGAR, S. ETC.: 

Molasses 

Candy 

Honey 

Sugar, granulated 

Maple syrup. 



Per cent 
11.2 



Per cent 
65.5 

11.0 
87.0 
90.5 
91.0 
26.9 
74.0 
27.4 
34.2 



11.4 
11.3 

12.0 
12.0 
10. 1 
13.6 
12.5 
7.3 
12.3 
11.4 



Per cent 
13.1 

1.0 

3 3 

3.4 

3.0 

8.8 

2.5 
27.7 
25.9 



13.8 
13.3 

11.4 
14.0 
11.1 
6.4 
9.2 
16.1 
8.0 
.4 



Per cent 
9.3 

85.0 

4.0 

.3 

.5 

8.3 

18.5 

36.8 

33.7 



1.9 
2.2 

1.0 
1.9 
1.7 
1.2 
1.9 
7.2 
.3 
.1 



35.8 

43.6 

35.7 

38.4 

35.7 

19.9 

6.8 

4.8 

5.9 

10.3 

25.1 



9.2 
5.4 
8.9 
9.7 
9.0 
6.3 
9.7 

11.3 
9.8 

13.4 

2.4 



1.3 

1.8 

1.8 

.9 

.6 

9.0 

12.1 

10.5 

9.1 

.9 



18.2 



Per cent 



5.0 
5.1 
4.8 
54.1 
4.5 
4.1 
2.4 



71.9 
71.4 

75.1 
71.2 
75.5 
77.9 
75.4 
67.5 
79.0 
88.0 
90.0 

53.1 
47.1 
52.1 
49.7 
53.2 
63.3 
69.7 
70.5 
73.1 
74.1 

69.3 
96.0 
81.2 
100.0 
71.4 



Per cent 
.9 

3.0 

.7 

.7 

.7 
1.9 

.5 
4.0 
3.8 



1.0 
1.8 

.5 

.9 

1.6 

.9 

1.0 

1.9 

.4 

.1 



1.1 
2.1 
1.5 
1.3 
1.5 
1.5 
1.7 
2.9 
2.1 
1.3 

3.2 



Calories 
613 

3.450 
312 
166 
162 

1.476 
874 

2.063 

1.874 



1,632 
1.626 

1,610 
1.623 
1,640 
1,578 
1,612 
1.808 
1.591 
1,608 
1,633 

1,183 
1,025 
1,179 
1.114 
1,163 
1,626 
1,029 
1,908 
1,872 
1,600 

1,301 
1,742 
1,481 
1,814 
1,295 



From the United States Department of Agriculture. 




Ice Cream in Sponge Cake Basket 
NOTES: 



[Lesson 61B] CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER [Page 159] 

(See Lesson 28) 

CHEAP SPONGE CAKE 

Yolks 2 eggs % c. flour Whites 2 eggs 

-;; c. sugar 1 tsp. baking powder i^ tbsp. vinegar 

2 tsp. hot water Ve tsp. salt 

Beat yolks until thick; add sugar gradually and continue beating; then add water, flour 
mixed and sifted with the baking powder and salt. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs 
! and vinegar. Bake 35 minutes in a moderate oven in an unbuttered or a buttered and floured 
cake pan. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

Yolks 4 eggs V/2 tbsp. cornstarch 1/4 tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar 1 c. flour (scant) WTiites 4 eggs 

3 tbsp. cold water IY2 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. lemon extract 

Beat yolks until thick; add sugar gradually and beat 2 minutes. Then add water. Mix 
and sift cornstarch, flour, baking powder and salt, and add to first mixture. Fold in stiffly 
beaten whites and flavoring. Bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. This cake may be 
made with two eggs, and using 2 tsp. baking powder and 3 tbsp. water. 




ANGEL'S FOOD 

Whites 8 eggs 1 c. sugar (sifted 4 times) i/4 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. cream of tartar % c. flour (sifted 4 times) % tsp. vanilla 

Beat whites until frothy; add cream of tartar and continue beating until stiff. Sift 
floiir and sugar separately four times, then together; fold into the stiffly beaten whites, adding 
it at the side of the bowl; add vanilla, and bake in an unbuttered baking tin about 45 
minutes. 

SMALL SUNSHINE CAKE 

Whites 5 eggs Yolks 3 eggs 1^ c. flour 

% c. powdered sugar % tsp. vanilla % tsp. cream of tartar 

Beat whites until frothy; add cream of tartar. Beat until stiff and dry, add sugar 
gradually, continue beating; add beaten yolks and extract. Fold in sifted flour. Bake as 
Angel Cake, allowing about 30 minutes for baking. 



[Page 160] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 62A] 



POOD VALUE OF NUTS, ETC. 



BULUTIN No. 28.— A?erag« Composition of American Pood Froducts 



FOOD MATERIALS 

(as purchased) 


Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Fuel 

Value 

perPound 


NUTS:- 

AlrnoDdfl 


Per cent 

45.0 
40.8 
49.6 
86.4 
16 
24.0 
48.8 


Percent 

2.7 
2.3 
2.6 

.6 
37.8 
4.5 
7.2 
3.5 
1.8 
1.4 
1.4 
6.9 
2.0 

.6 
1.0 
13.1 

5.9 
4.6 

98.2 


Percent 

11.5 
13 

8.6 

3.8 

5.2 

8.1 

2.9 

6.3 

7.5 

5 8 

5.2 
19.6 

8.7 

7.2 

6.9 

2.3 

12.9 
21.6 

.2 


Percent 

80.2 
34.0 
83.7 

8.3 

4.5 

5.3 
25.9 
67.4 
31.3 
25.5 
33.3 
29.1 
36.8 
14.6 
26.6 

3.0 

48.7 
28.9 


Percent 

9.5 

7.8 

3.5 
.5 
35.4 
56.4 
14.3 
31.6 

6.2 

4.3 

6.2 
18.6 
10.2 

3.0 

6.8 
68.5 

30.3 
37.7 

1.4 


Per cent 

1.1 
2.1 
2.0 

.4 
1.1 
1.7 

.9 
1.3 
1.1 

.8 

.7 
1.5 
1.7 

i 

3.1 

2.2 
7.2 

.2 


Calories 
1,600 


Beechnuts 


1,750 


Brasil nuts 


1,580 V 


Butternuts 


413 


Chestnuts, freeh 


918 


Chestnuts, dried 


1,384 


OocoAnutff 


1,358 


Coooanut. Dreoared 


3,003 


i3Srte..„:.^. ::::::::::::::::::: 


62.1 
62.2 
53.2 
24.5 
40.6 
74.1 
58.1 
10.0 


1,512 


Hickory nuts 


1,213 


PecAns, polished 


1,551 


Peanuts 


1,864 


Pinon (Pinus edulis) 


1,829 


Walnuts, California, black 


774 


Walnuts, California, soft-shell 


1,322 


RAISINS 


1,406 


MISCELLANEOUS: 

Chocolate 


2,750 


Cocoa, powdered 




2.242 


Cereal coffee infusion (1 part boiled in 
20 parts water) 




29 



From the United States Department of Agriculture. 



NOTES: 



[lesson 62BJ 




[Page 161] 



^ tap. salt 

% tsp. grated nutmeg 



SUGAR COOKIES— I 

V2 c. butter 3 tbsp. milk 

1 c. sugar 2 c. flour 

2 eggs beaten 3 tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually. Add well beaten egg, milk, and the flour 
mixed and sifted with the baking powder and nutmeg. Add flour to make a stiff 
dough. Place small portion of dough on a well-floured board, pat and roll to V^-inch thick- 
ness. Cut, place on a buttered baking tin, and bake in a moderate oven until light brown. 
One egg may be omitted, and then less flour will be required. 

SUGAR COOKIES— II 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 
1 tsp. soda in 2 tbsp. milk 
3 eggs beaten 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and well beaten eggs, lemon juice, soda and milk, 
and enough sifted flour to roll. Cut and bake. 

VaniUa Cookies. — Substitute 1 tsp. vanilla for the nutmeg in Sugar Cookies I. 
Chocolate Cookies. — Add three tbsp. grated chocolate or cocoa to Recipe I. 
Cocoanut Cookies. — Add Vj c. shredded cocoanut to the dry ingredients in Recipe I. 
Roll 1/4 inch thick. 

Rich Cookies.— ^ c*. sugar, 1 c. butter, yolks 4 t^ggs, 3 tbsp. milk, 4 c. flour. Combine 
as Recipe I. 



1 c. sugar 

Y2 c. lard or butter 



Flour to make stiff enough to 
roll 




PEANUT COOKIES. Part II 

2 tbsp. butter 1/2 c. flour 21/2 tbsp. milk 

14 c. sugar 1 tsp. baking powder % c. chopped peanuts 

1 egg well beaten ^ tsp. salt % tsp. lemon juice 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually; add well beaten egg. Mix and sift baking powder, 
salt and flour; add to first mixture; then add milk, peanuts and lemon juice. Drop from 
a tip of a spoon on an unbuttered sheet one inch apart, and place '^ peanut on top of each. 
Bake 12 to 16 minutes in a slow oven. This makes 24 cookies. 



% c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 



1 tsp. cinamon 

% to 1 c. chopped nuts 

Vs c. raisins 



BOSTON COOKIES 

% tsp. soda 

1 tbsp. hot water 

2 c. flour 
1/3 tsp. salt 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs well beaten. Add soda dissolved in 
water, % flour mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon. Then add nut meat, fruit, and 
remaining flour. Drop by spoonfuls onto a buttered tin, one inch apart, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 



[Page 162] 



BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 63 A] 



PASTRY 

Pastry, if it is to be served at all, should be light, tender and flaky. It is then more 
easily digested. 

Winter wheat flour, called pastry flour, should be used, as it makes the pastry more 
tender than bread flour. Less shortening is required when pastry flour is used. 

The lightness of the pastry depends upon the amount of air enclosed and its expansion 
in baking. 

The flakiness depends upon the number of layers of shortening and paste formed by 
folding and rolling. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Use butter, lard or drippings for the shortening. • 

Rub in shortening with the tips of the fingers or chop in with a knife. 

Add enough cold water to make a stiff dough, using a knife for mixing. 

All the ingredients must be cold. 

Handle the dough as little as possible, and keep it as cold as possible, as heat melts the 
fat and makes it difficult to handle the dough. 

Use as little flour as possible during the rolling. 

Cut the pastry a little larger than the dish to allow for shrinkage. 

RECIPE FOR PASTRY 

IVj C' flour 1/2 tsp. salt Va to V2 c. shortening 

Cold water to make a stiff dough (about 4^ tbsp.). 

Mix and sift the flour and Salt. Rub in shortening with tips of fingers or cut it into the 
flour with two knives. Add the cold water, using a knife for mixing. Knead the dough lightly 
into a ball. Cut in two; roll into circular pieces to fit pie tin, or 

Work 1/^ of the butter or shortening into the flour, add cold water to make a stiff dough 
as in Recipe I. 

Toss on a floured board, roll out into a rectangular piece. Dot with remaining half of 
butter. Fold or roll up like jelly roll; cut in half and roll out for top and bottom crust. 

This makes a flaky crust. Top crust should be gashed in several places to let out 
the steam. 

NOTES: 




H3 




Covering Tin With Under 
Crust 



Moistening Edges of Crust 
With Water 



[Lesson 63B] 



PIE 



[Page 163] 




y^ tsp. nutmeg 

Few gratings lemon rind 



APPLE PIE 

5 sour apples 1 tsp. butter 

Vs tsp. salt ^^ tsp. cinnamon 

14 c- sugar 1 tsp. lemon juice 

Line pie plate with paste. Pare, core and cut apples and fill the pie. Mix the drv 
ingredients and lemon juice, and sprinkle over apples. Dot over with butter. Wet edges 
of under crust, cover with upper crust, pressing the edges close together. Bake in a hot 
oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until fruit is cooked. 




LEMON PIE— I 

1 c. sugar 1 c. boiling water 2 egg yolks 

3 tbsp. cornstarch 1 tsp. butter Juice 1 lemon 

Grated rind 1 lemon 
Mix cornstarch and sugar; add to boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook until clear; 
add the butter, beaten yolks, lemon juice and rind. Cool. Line plate with paste. Prick the 
paste and bake. Fill with lemon mixture and cover with meringue and bake until meringue is 
brown. 



LEMON PIE— II 

Juice 1 lemon 
Grated rind 1 lemon 



3 yolks Juice 1 lemon % tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar Grated rind 1 lemon % c. milk 

3 tbsp. flour 

Mix sugar, flour and salt. Add to yolks. Add milk, lemon juice and rind to yolk mix- 
ture. Cover pie tin with paste. Brush with slightly beaten white of egg. Fill with yolk 
mixture and bake 20 minutes or more until done. Cover with meringue and brown in oveii. 

MERINGUE 

White 2 eggs 1^ tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. sugar or powdered sugar, and ^4 tsp. vanilla 
Beat the whites until stiff; fold in sugar and add flavoring. 

RHUBARB PIE 

1^ c. rhubarb 1 scant c. sugar 1 egg 2 tbsp. flour 

Skin aud cut rhubarb in i^-inch pieces. Mix sugar and flour; add egg and the sugar 
and flour. Line a plate with crust, cover with rhubarb, spread with egg mixture; cover with 
crust. Bake until fruit is cooked and crust is brown. 



[Page 164] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[LesBOn 64A] 



BULLETIN No. 2t.— Atwrage Oompoiitioa>f>fAmerican Food Product! 



(as purchased) 


Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Pat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


ABh 


Fuel 

Value 

perPound 


FRUITS, BERRIES, ETC., Fresh: 

ADDles 


Per cent 

25.0 
35.0 
25.0 
30.0 
60.0 
27.0 
10.0 


Percent 

63.3 
48.9 
58.0 
62.5 
44.8 
63.4 
76.0 
66.1 
85.8 
85.9 
37.5 

28.1 
81.4 
13.8 
18.8 


Percent 

.3 

.8 
1.0 

.7 

.3 

.6 

.6 

.8 
1.0 

.9 

.2 

1.6 

.9 

1.9 

4.3 


Percent 

.3 

.4 

1.2 

.5 


Percent 

10.8 
14.3 
14.4 

5.9 

4.6 

8.5 
12.7 
31.5 
12.6 

7.0 

2.7 

66.1 
17.3 
70.6 
74.2 


Percent 

.3 
.6 
.4 
.4 
.3 
.4 
.4 
.9 
.6 
.6 
.1 

2.0 

.4 

1.6 

2.4 


Calories j 
214 


Bananas 


290 


Grapes . 


328 


Jjemons 


140 


Muskmebns 


89 


Oranoes 


.1 
.4 

.7 


169 


Pears 


256 


PAnrimmons. edible ixtrtinn 


614 






247 


Strawberries. 


5.6 
59.4 


.6 
.1 

2.2 


168 


FRUITS, Dried: 

Apples 


57 
1,317 


Aorioota 




330 


Dates 


10.0 


2.6 
.3 


1,416 


Fiffi 


1,437 



TABLE 2.— ComparatiTe coit of total nutrienti and enerffy in fruiti 





Price 

per 

pound 


Cost of 
1 pound 
protein 


Cost of 
1,000 
calories 
energj' 


Amounts for 10 cents 




KIND OF FOOD MATERIAL 


Total 
weight 
of food 
materials 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Energy 


FRESH FRUITS 

Apples 


Cents 
1 5 
7.0 
4.0 
6.0 
4.0 
3.0 
3.0 
1.5 
7.0 
5.0 
5.0 
7.0 
7.0 

12.0 
10.0 
15.0 
10.0 
10.0 

16.0 
6.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
20.0 


Dollars 
6.00 
8.76 
4.00 

10.00 
8.00 
6.00 
3.33 
7.60 
5.38 

12.60 
3.33 
7.00 
7.78 

7.60 
5.26 
3.60 
6.56 
4.35 

91.43 
10.00 
26.66 
32.00 
26.66 
32.00 
26.67 
53.33 
40.00 
53.33 
80.00 
17.78 
63.33 
20.00 
83.33 


Cents 
7.3 
23.3 
11.9 
35.2 
25.1 
11.5 
8.1 
25.0 
25.9 
23.3 
18.9 
27.4 
40.0 

8.9 
6.9 
10.2 
8.4 
6.9 

13.8 
5.6 
12.8 
13.2 
10.1 
37.2 
12.0 
12.2 
13.4 
10.6 
13.3 
47.1 
45.6 
53.2 
128.2 


Lbs. 
6.67 
1.43 
2.50 
1.67 
2.50 
3.33 
3.33 
6.67 
1.43 
2.00 
2.00 
1.43 
1.43 

.83 
1.00 

.67 
l.tX) 
1.00 

.62 
2.00 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.60 


Lbs. 
0.02 
.01 
.03 
.01 
.01 
.02 
.03 
.01 
• .02 
.01 
.03 
.01 
.01 

.01 
.02 
.03 
.02 
.02 


Lbs. 
0.02 


Lbs. 

0.72 
.21 
.36 
.14 
.19 
.42 
.64 
.18 
.16 
.20 
.26 
.18 
.10 

.55 
.71 
.50 
.62 
.69 

.39 
.94 
.42 
.40 
, .52 
.14 
.44 
.43 
.40 
.61 
.40 
.11 
.11 
.09 
(04 


Calories 
1.467 


Bananas 


429 


Grapes 


.03 


837 


Oranges 


284 


Peaches 




398 


Pears 


.01 


866 


P)yitv>s 


1,232 






400 


Blackberries... 


.01 
.01 


386 


CranberrieB 


430 


Cxurants 


530 


Rfispberries . 




365 


Strawberries . 


.01 
.03 


250 


Apples 


1,121 


dbuT.::.::. 


1,450 


Figs 


988 


Prunes 




1.190 


T)j^ii>in<f 


.03 


1.445 


JAMS, PBESEBVES, ETC. 

Apple preserves 


727 


Apple butter .... 


.01 




1,780 
781 


Currant and raspberry jam 

Qooseberrv Jam 








752 








983 


Prune sauce 






267 








833 


Apple jelly 






812 


Currant jelly .... 






744 


Guava jelly 






962 


Quince j^lly 






750 


Apricots, canned 


.6i 




211 


Pears, canned 




220 


Peaches, canned 






188 


Grape juice 






78 











C. F. Langworthy, Department of Agriculture. Washington. D. C. 



NOTES: 



[Lesson 64B] 



FROZEN FRUIT JUICE MIXTURES 



[Page 165] 




Strawberry Ice with Whipped Cream 

(See General Directions for Freezing in Lesson 39A) 

Water Ice is fruit juice sweetened, diluted with water, and frozen. 
Sherbet is a water ice mixture to which is add6d dissolved gelatine or beaten whites of 
eggs. 

Frappe is a water ice mixture frozen to a mush, using equal parts of ice and salt in 
freezing. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 
Boil sugar and water 20 minutes. Add the fruit juice and rind (if used), cool, strain 
and freeze. 

ORANGE ICE 
4 c. water 2 c. orange juice 

2 c. sugar ^ c. lemon juice 

Follow general directions. 

LEMON ICE 
4 c. water % c. lemon juice 

2% c. sugar Juice of 1 orange 

Follow general directions. 

FRUIT ICE 
2 oranges 2 bananas 2^ c. cold water 

2 lemons 2 c. strawberries or raspberries 2 c. sugar 

Rub the fruit thru a coarse strainer into a bowl, pour the cold water thru the strainer. 
Add sugar to the mixture, stir and freeze according to directions in Lesson 39 A. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

2 c. grated pineapple 2 c. sugar 1 tbsp. gelatine soaked in 

Juice 1 lemon 4 c. water ^ c. cold water 

Boil the sugar and water 20 minutes. Add it to the soaked gelatine; when dissolved, 
add the fruit juices. Cool and freeze. 



Grated rind 2 oranges 
Grated rind 1 lemon 



Rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange 



GRAPE FRAPPE 
4 c. water 2 c. orange juice 

2 c. BUffar 2 c. grape juice 

Follow general directions for freezing. 



Ys c. lemon juice 



[Page 166] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 65A] 

JELLT MAKING 

Jellies are made, in nearly all eases, of equal quantities of cooked fruit juices and sugar. 

GENERAL RULES ^ 

Select under-ripe fruit for jelly making. Under-ripe fniit contains a substance called 
pectose; during the process of ripening, it is changed to pectin. Pectin does not readiiy 
unite with sugar to form a jelly, but pectose does, therefore in jelly making we use fruit a 
little under-ripe. ' 

Prepare the fruit. Cut large fruit into pieces (use skin and core). With watery fruits, 
such as grapes, currants, etc., use no water. With apples, quinces, etc., use enough water 
to cover fruit. Boil the fruit until the juice can be drained out easily. Drain juice thru a 
jelly bag or double thickness of cheese cloth. 

Measure the juice and an equal quantity of sugar. 

Boil the fruit juice 20 minutes. Skim. Heat sugar in the oven. 

Add the heated sugar to the boiled fruit juice, continue boiling fronj 3 to 10 minutes, or 
until jelly stiffens when a little is tried on a cold plate. 

■Strain jelly into a heated pitcher first, then pour it into sterilized glasses. (See 
Lesson 5B.) 

Put in a sunny window and let stand 24 hours. 

Cover; pour over each glass melted paraffin or use circular pieces of paper dipped in 
alcohol, sealing with white of egg; or a tin cover. 

Keep in a cool, dry place. Label and date all glasses of jelly. 

JAMS 

JAMS are usually made with berries or small fruit (pulp, seeds and skin), cooked with 
an equal quantity of sugar. 

GENERAL RULES 

Prepare fruit and weigh. Measure an equal quantity of sugar; heat it. Cook the fruit 
mash with a wooden spoon while cooking, and stir to prevent burning. Cook 30 minutes, 
or until soft. Add heated sugar and cook 20 minutes, or until thick. Put into heated ster- 
ilized jars or glasses, cool and cover as for jellies. 

Pickling is preserving in any salt or acid liquor. 

GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING DRIED FRUIT 

Wash fruit thoroly in several waters. Cover with cold water and soak several hours 
or over night. Pour the water in which the fruit has been soaked into a saucepan. Heat 
to boiling point. Add the soaked fruit. 

Cook until fruit is soft. If not sweet enough add sugar and cook five minutes longer. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 65B] 



COOKED FRUITS 



[Page 167] 



CRANBERRY SAUCE 

4 c. cranberries 1% c. sugar 1 c. boiling water 

Pick over and wash berries. Put into a saucepan with the boiling water and sugar, 
cover, and boil slowly 10 minutes. 

Stick cinnamon and quartered apples may be cooked with the cranberries. 




CRANBERRY JELLY 

4 c. cranberries 2 c. boiling water Sugar 

Pick over and wash berries; put into a saucepan with the water and boil 15 minutes, 
or until all the berries break open. Strain; add as much sugar as juice obtained; boil mix- 
ture 10 minutes and pour into moulds; cool and cover. Jellied cranberries may be made 
by cooking the berries in the sugar and water, pressing them occasionally while cooking until 
they burfet. Pour into moulds and cool. 



STEWED APRICOTS 

3^ c. dried apricots % c. sugar 

, Follow directions for cooking dried fruit in Lesson 6 5 A. 



3 c. boiling water 



STEWED PRUNES 

3 c. or 1 lb. prunes % c. sugar 

3 c. boiKng water 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Follow directions for cooking dried fruit in Lesson 65A. Add the lemon juice just before 
taking off the fire. 

ORANGE MARMALADE (California Recipe) 

Select six large juicy oranges. Wash, cut in quarters, slice quarters as thin as possible; 
add the juice of two lemons. 

To each pound of fruit add 2 pts. of water, let stand uncovered 24 hours, then boil 45 
minutes; again let stand uncovered 24 hours. Add pound of sugar to pound of fruit and 
boil 45 minutes, or until it jells when a little is tried on a cold plate. Pour into sterilized 
glasses. Label. 



[Page 168] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 66A] 



AOID AND SALT SUPPLYING FOODS 

SALADS 

Simple Salads consist of fresh vegetables which require no cooking — as Lettuce, Endive, 
Cress, etc., served with a dressing. Cooked vegetables, meat, fish, eggs, cheese, or fruits are 
also used for salads. 

A salad must be served cold. 

The salad should be prepared daintily, and arranged attractively. 

Lettuce and other salad plants should be fresh, crisp and clean. 

Wash thoroly leaf by leaf, chill in very cold water, and dry by pressing between clean 
dry towels. 

Do not add the salad dressing to greens until just before serving. 

Use a fork in mixing salad ingredients. 

Do not leave a metal spoon or fork in the salad ingredients any length of time, a poison- 
ous compound may be formed. 

Salad greens are valuable for the water and potash salts they contain. 

A meat, fish or egg salad served with a cooked or mayonnaise dressing, contains a great 
deal of nourishment, and when served should be one of the chief foods of the meal. 

Serve a vegetable or a fruit salad with a hearty meal. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

V2 tsp. salt i/g tsp. paprika 4 tbsp. oil 

y^ tsp. pepper 2 tbsp. vinegar 

Mix ingredients in order given, stirring vigorously. 

To MAIIINATE means to moisten a salad mixture with French Dressing and then allow 
it to stand until well seasoned. 



^ tsp. salt 
y2 tsp. sugar 



1 tbsp. vinegar 
% to 1 c. olive oil 



Add oil grad- 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Vs tsp. paprika 

Yolk 1 egg 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 
Mix dry ingredients; add yolk. When well mixed, add % tsp. vinegar. _ 

ually, at first drop by drop, and stirring constantly. When very thipk, add a few drops of 
vinegar or lemon juice, and continue to beat, adding oil and vinegar alternately, until the 
mixture is smoothly blended. The dressing should be thick enough to hold its shape. A Dover 
egg-beater is considered time and labor saving when used in beating the ingredients. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

3 yolks 1/3 c. vinegar 

Vs c. sugar i^ tsp. salt 

Mix the yolks, sugar, salt and vinegar. Cook in a double boiler until thickened, stirring 
all the time. Remove from fire; when cool, add the desired quantity of whipped cream. 

Prepared mustard may be added to this dressing, using less sugar, it is then suitable 
for meat or vegetable combinations. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING (See Lesson 166) 
NOTE. — Do not dilute vinegar with water; if too acid, use less of the vinegar. 



Whipped cream 




# >. 






Fruit Salad 



L Lesson 66B] 



SALADS 



[Page 169] 



WATER LILY SALAD 
Remove shells from hard-cooked eggs. Cut eggs in halves crosswise or lengthwise, cutting 
in such a way that the edges will be cut into sharp points. Remove yolk, mash and season 
with salt, pepper and melted butter, or moisten with salad dressings. Refill whites with the 
yolk mixture, and arrange halves on lettuce leaves. Serve with cooked salad dressing. 




MEAT SALAD (Chicken or Veal) 
Remove bones and gristle, fat and skin, from cold cooked meat. Cut meat into %-incli 
cubes and mix with it an equal amount of celery which has been scraped, chilled and cut in 
small pieces. Marinate with French Dressing. Add mayonnaise dressing to moisten. 
Arrange on lettuce leaves; garnish with curled celery. 

WALDORF SALAD 
Enough salad dressing to moisten 1 c. cubed apple 1 c. celery 1 c. nut meats 

Cut slice from tops of green or red apples; scoop out the inside pulp, leaving just enough 
to hold the skin in place. Fill the shells with the salad mixture and serve on lettuce leaves. 

FRUIT SALAD 

2 oranges i/4 lb. malaga grapes 

3 bananas 4 slices pineapple (cubed) 

Mix with whipped cream or fruit salad dressing. 

May be served in orange cups. 

RUSSIAN SALAD 
1 c. cold cooked parrots (cubed) 1 c. cold cooked peas 

1 c. cold cooked potatoes (cubed 1 c. cold cooked string beans 

Marinate with French Dressing. Arrange vegetables in a mound; make four sections. 
Cover two sections with finely chopped whites of hard-cooked eggs, and the other two with 
the hard-cooked yolks forced thru a potato ricer or strainer. Garnish with parsley. 



12 walnuts 

Salad dressing to moisten 




TOMATO SALAD 

8 medium sized tomatoes 2 c. celery or cucumber cut in cubes 1 c. Mayonnaise dressing 
Scald and peel tomatoes; slice off their tops. Scrape out the seeds and a little of the 
■pulp, and fill cavities with the celery or cucumber, mixed with mayonnaise dressing, or fill 
with shredded pineapple and nuts mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Tomato may be cut 
to imitate a tiger lily by cutting into sixthp almost to the stem end. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



[Page 170] . BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 67A] 

BEVEBAQES 

A Beverage is any drink. All beverages contain a large percentage of water. 

Use freshly boiled water for making hot beverages. 

Use freshly drawn water for making cold beverages. 

Beverages are: 1. Water. 2. Natural fruit juices. 3. Aromatics. Example: Tea, 
coffee, cocoa, chocolate. 

TEA 

Tea is a native of China, Japan and North East India. 

Tea is made from the leaves of an evergreen plant. 

Tea leaves have to be wilted, rolled and dried by artificial heat in order to develop their 
flavor. 

Green Tea is made from freshly picked young leaves, which are prepared quickly by 
drying them by heat or steam; they are sweated or roasted soon after gathering. Example: 
Gunpowder, Hyson and Japan. 

Black Tea is made from the leaves left in a heap on the ground in the sun, allowing 
them to ferment, in order to darken and develop a different flavor before being rolled. 
Example: Oolong, English Breakfast, etc. 

Tea contains a stimulating substance called THEIN, and TANNIN. 

Do not use a tin teapot, because of the tannin in the tea. 

Tea increases perspiration, and helps tired nerves to recover. 

People who do severe muscular labor are refreshed by a cup of tea. 

COFFEE 

Coffee is made from the seeds of the coffee plant grown in Africa, Mocha, Costa Kica, 
Brazil, Ceylon and Jamaica. 

The seeds of the berries of the coffee trees are roasted in order to develop the aroma. 

Coffee contains a stimulating substance called CAFFEINE, and TANNIN. 

Coffee increases the action of the heart, excites mucous membrane, decreases the action 
of the skin, and is a powerful antidote. 

Tannin is the injurious substance found in tea and coffee. It is extracted by boiling, 
therefore tea should always be infused and never boiled or allowed to steep too long. 

Filtered coffee is preferable to boiled coffee. Children and young people who have not 
stopped growing should not drink tea or coffee. 

Tea and Coffee should never be taken on an empty stomach unless for medicinal purposes. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 

Cocoa and Chocolate are prepared from the seeds of the cocoa beans dried and roasted. 

Cocoa Beans contain so much fat that when ground they become not powder but paste. 
This paste forms Chocolate. 

Cocoa is made by grinding the Cocoa Beans, extracting the oil, leaving a dry powder. 

Chocolate and Cocoa are -a food as well as a stimulant. They contain theobromine, a 
substance similar to caffeine. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 67B] BEVERAGES ' [Page 171] 

TEA 

' To Make Tea. Allow one teaspoonful of tea to each cup of boiling water. Scald the 
I teapot with boiling water, put in the tea, pour on the boiling water, and let it stand covered 
from three to five minutes. 

I COFFEE 

To Make Filtered Coffee, allow 1 tbsp. of pulverized coflfee to 1 c. boiling water. Scald 
I the coffee pot. Put coffee in strainer; strainer in coffee pot; put on the range. Add gradually 
the boiling water and allow it to filter. Cover between additions of water. If desired 
stronger, refilter. This is considered the most economical way of preparing coffee. 

BOILED COFFEE 

1 

I % c. coffee % c. cold water 1 egg 6 c. boiling water 

Scald graniteware coffee pot. Wash the egg, break, and beat it slightly. Dilute with 

one -half of the cold water; add crushed shell to it and mix with coffee. Turn into coffee 

pot, pour on boiling water and stir thoroly. Place on fire and boil 3 minutes. If not boiled, 

coffee is cloudy; if boiled too long too much tannic acid is developed. The spout of the 

coffee pot should be stuffed with soft paper to prevent the escape of fragrant aroma. Add 

remaining half of cold water, let it stand 10 minutes on back of range. 

Left-over coffee may be used if poured off the grounds immediately. Keep it in a cool 
place until needed. Never reheat coffee on the grounds. 

Boiling coffee in large bags is considered the least economical method of preparing coffee, 
, as more coffee must be used in proportion to the quantity of water. 
I 
I BREAKFAST COCOA 

I 2 c. scalded milk Few grains salt 2 to 4 tbsp. sugar 

2 c. boiling water 2 tbsp. prepared cocoa 

Mix dry ingredients in saucepan; stir in boiling water gradually and boil 5 minutes. 

Add milk and cook 5 minutes longer, or until smooth and free from lumps. Mill with a 
I Dover egg-beater to prevent albuminous skin from forming on top. 




A cup of chocolate with sandwiches. This combination makes a wholesome and nutritious 
lunch. 

CHOCOLATE 

1'^ sqrs. Baker's Chocolate Few grains salt 4 c. milk 

4 tbsp. sugar 1 c. boiling water 

Scald milk; melt chocolate in small saucepan placed over hot water; add sugar; salt,, 
and gradually boiling water while stirring; when smooth, place on range, and boil one minute; 
add to scalded milk. Mill by beating with Dover egg-beater, and serve. 



[Page 172] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 68A] 



INVALID COOKERY 

The selection, preparation and serving of food for invalids is of greatest importance. 

The food should be suited to the digestive powers of the patient, should be perfectly 
cooked and served attractively in small quantities. In serious illness consult the physician in 
attendance, and follow his directions exactly. Death may result from giving forbidden articles 
of food. 

All food is changed into liquid during the process of digestion, before it can be absorbed 
into the blood. Liquid food carefully selected can therefore be digested with the smallest 
amount of exertion to the body. 

{Liquid 
Semi-solid or soft diet 
Solid or full diet 

Liquids. — Stimulants are boiled beef tea, broths, coffee, tea. 

Nutrients. — Milk, frozen cream, barley water, rice water, oatmeal water, toast water, 
albumenized milk, albumenized fruit waters, egg-nogs, chocolate, cocoa, bottled beef tea 
(Lesson 41A). etc. 

Refreshing Beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grape juice and water, currant, tamarind 
and apple water, etc. 

The fruit waters are cooling, refreshing and mildly stimulating, and are given to fever 
patients. 

Fruits are valuable for the salts and acids they contain. 

Semi-Solids. — Gruels — arrow- root, farina, oatmeal, cracker, Indian meal. Mushes — cooked 
cereals. Cream soups (Lesson llB). Oyster stew (Lesson 51B). Cooked eggs (Lesson 35B). 
Custards (Lesson 36B). Soft toast (Lesson 7B). Gelatine desserts (Lessons 52B and 
53B), etc. 

Solids. — Raw Oysters — Chicken (Lesson 45B) . Broiled chops (Lesson 42B). Baked potato 
(Lesson 19B). Hot sandwiches (Lesson 8B). Foods that are nutritious and easily digestible 
are included in Jhe full diet. 

Gruels and the various breakfast foods, thoroly cooked, with or without fruit, are 
valuable. 

Corn and oatmeal gruels should not be given in inflammatory cases, as they are heat- 
producing. 

The starch in arrow-root is more easily digested than any other form of starch. 

Cooked eggs, dropped eggs on toast, scrambled, omelets, etc., soft custards, baked cua- 
tards, and the fruit whips made with white of egg, and sweetened fruit, are all nutrients 
and easily digested. 

Frozen cream and cream whips will) gelutine an very v a I viable 
dishes in the sick room, as tliey are both highly nutritious and 
palatable. 

The cream soups, oyster stew, etc., with toaat orcrankera, niakf^ 
a desirable lunch for a convaleaocnt. 

Set the tray just as daintily as pDssible. 

Use the best china, etc., lay a blossom oe the tray, or anTthiiifr 
to please the eye. 

Serve hot dishes hot; cold dishes cold. 

Serve one course at a time. Have as many 
surprises as possible. 

In contagious diseases all disliei^* pbiir- 
knives, forks, etc., should be sterilize*! (by put 
ting them in cold water, bringing tht-ni to 
boiling point and boiUng 2 hours}, after tiaeh 
time they have been used. Burn n\\ partitTeia nl 
food left over. 

NOTES: 




[Lesson 68B] 



INVALID COOKERY 



[Page 173] 




LIQUIDS— BARLEY WATER 

IV^ tbsp. pearl barley Sugar to taste 

1 qt. cold water 2 tbsp. lemon juice or more 

Wash then soak BARLEY in cold water over night. Boil in the same water several 
hours. Strain, add lemon juice and sugar. Strawberry, raspberry or grape juice may be 
added. Soothing and refreshing. Valuable in bronchial or pulmonary trouble. 

RICE WATER 

1 tbsp. rice 2 c. water Salt Milk, cream or fruit juice 

Heat water to boiling point; wash rice; add rice and salt to boiling water, cook until rice 

is soft, strain, add cream or fruit juice to the water. 

BARLEY and Rice waters are known as astringents. If stick cinnamon be cooked with 

the rice or barley, it will help to produce a laxative condition. 

I TOAST WATER 

EQUAL measures of stale bread, toasted, and boiling water. Let stand one hour. Season, 
strain^ serve hot or cold. Given in extreme cases of nausea. 

ORANGE ALBUBIEN 

White 1 egg Juice 1 sour orange Sugar to taste 

3 tbsp. crushed ice 
Beat white oi egg slightly, add orange juice and crushed ice. Mix in a glass and sweeten 
to taste. Lemon may be used in place of the orange. 



MILK ALBUMEN 
White 1 egg % c milk 

Beat white slightly; add milk and salt. 



Few grains salt 



EGG NOGG 

1 egg % c. milk 1 tbsp. vanilla or other 

% tbsp. sugar Few grs. salt flavoring 

Beat egg slightly, add sugar, salt and flavoring, and then add the milk gradually. Strain 
and serve. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 
^ c. oatmeal (rolled oats) 1% qts. water % c. cream 1 tsp. salt 

Cook oatmeal in the water and salt for three hours or more. Strain. Add cream. Nour- 
ishing and fattening. Valuable in anaemic and tubercular cases. 




Egg in Nest 



[Page 174] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [LessonGQA] 



DIETARY STUDIES 

The calorie is the unit of heat or energy of the human body. It is the basis for deter- 
mining the fuel value of foods. 

STANDARD FOR PERSON ENGAGED IN MODERATE MUSCULAR WORK 

As given by C. F. Langworthy, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Calories | 

Protein, 105 grams (0.231 lb.) to yield 419 

Fats, 125 grams (0.275 lb.) to yield 1,100 

Carbohydrates, 495 grams (1.09 lb.) to yield 1,981 

Total .3,500 

This standard is intended to represent the food actually eaten and does not include 
waste of any kind. 

STANDARDS FOR FOOD AS PURCHASED 

Calories 

Protein, 115 grams (0.253 lb.) yielding 460 

Fats, 125 grams (0.275 lb.) yielding 1,100 ! 

Carbohydrates, 560 grams (1.235 lb.) yielding 2,240 

Total I 3,800 

Factors used in calculating meals consumed in dietary studies are as follows: 

Man at hard muscular work requires 1.2 the food of a man at moderately aetivei 
muscular work. 

Man with light muscular work and boy 15 to 16 years old requires 0.9 the food of a| 
man at moderately active muscular work. I 

Man at sedentary occupation, woman at moderately active work, boy 13 to 14 and girl 15 
to 16 years old require 0.8 the food of a man at moderately active muscular work. I 

Woman at light work, boy 12, and girl 13 to 14 years old require 0.7 the food of a mani 
at moderately active muscular work. 

Boy 10 to 11 and girl 10 to 12 years old require 0.6 the food of a man at moderately 
active muscular work. i 

Child 6 to 9 years old requires 0.5 the food of a man at moderately active muscular 
work. 

Child 2 to 5 years old requires 0.4 the food of a man at moderately active muscular work 

Child under 2 years old requires 0.3 the food of a man at moderately active muscular 
work. 

With this information,' and aided by the tables published by the U. S. Government, we 
can easily make an estimate of the nutrients contained in each meal and arrange the day's 
menu so it will conform with the required standard. When calculations are necessary, the 
following table may be of assistance: 

1 pound equals 453.54 grams. 

1 gram of protein yields about 4 calories. 

1 gram of fat yields about 8.90 calories. 

1 gram of carbohydrates yields 4 calories. 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
References Farmers' Bulletin No. 142. 



[Lesson 69B] 



DIETARY STUDIES 



mifU DC.— For family oqiTatont to 4 mon at modorate muioular work 



[Page 175]' 



1 


Weight 


Cost 


Protein 


Fuel 
Value 


Com meal, in mush and cake 


BTMkfaat 


Lbs. Os. 

6 

6 

2 

10 
2 


Cents 

1 
1 

si 


Pounds 

0.022 

.012 


Calories 
414 


Milk . 




64 


Sugar .,,,...,. 


232 


Toast 


.069 


763 


Butter (24 cents per pound) 


434 


Total 








8 


.093 


1.894 






Dinner 


Weight 


Cost 


Protein 


Fuel 
Value 


Supper 

Beans, baked.. 
Pork 


2 
12 

1 8 
2 
10 
2 


6 
6 

2 
1 

f 


.446 
.012 

.026 


3.180 
2.666 


► Beef roll 


lbs. OS. 

3 
1 8 

8 
10 

2 


Cts. 
16 
2 
1 

1* 


Lbs. 
.417 
.026 
.007 
.069 


CllB. 

2,280 

488 

86 

763 

434 


(for roasting) 


Potatoes,- 

fried 

T^rd 


Potatoes 


488 


Beets 


637 


Bread 


Bread 


.069 


753 


Butter 


Butter 

Total 


434 








Total 




23i 


.VM 


4040 




20J 


.643 


7,948 










Total per day, Breakfast, Dinner, and Supper. 






20* 


1.146 


13,886 






Total for one man, Brea 


kfast, D 


inner, 


and Sup 


P« 






13 


.286 


3.471 



mifU X.~For family equiTalent to 4 men at moderate muecular work 



FOOD MATIBIALS 


Weight 


Cost 


Protein 


Fuel 
Value 


Oatmeal 


Breakfast 


Lbs. Os. 

6 

1 
2 

1 

10 

1 


Cents 
2 

? 

6 


Pounds 

0.069 

.034 


Calories 
697 


Slciin milk, 1 pint . . , . 


170 


Siigur , ,--.-.-.-...,-, 


232 


Bread (homemade) 


.095 
.080 


1,^205 


Sausage 


1.358 


Butter (24 cents per pound) 


217 




. 






Total 




14* 


.268 


3,879 




Dinner 




Beef flank, stew 


2 8 

3 
12 

4 

2 

12 


16 
3 

1 

3* 

1 


.430 
.054 
.013 

.022 
.068 
.020 


2,988 


Potatoes (60 cents per bushel) . ... 


975 


Cabbage 


105 


Ck)m-meal pudding: 

Corn meal 


414 


9\c\m milk, 1 quart 


340 


Molasses...'...." 


987 








Total 




22J 


.604 


5,809 




Supper - 




Beef, wu'med in gravy 


1 8 

2 
2 

2 


3 
6 
3 
6 


.086 
.340 


598 


Hot Biscuit 


2,600 


Butter 


434 


Milk, 1 quart 


.033 


325 








Total 




18 


.259 


3,957 








Total per day 




55 


1.13'4 


'^ 













14 


.285 


3.411 



U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



[Page 176] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 70A] 



AT«raffe Composition of American Food Products 
Food materials (as purchased). 



Animal Food 



Refuse 
Per cent 



Water 


Protein 


Percent 


Per cent 


54.0 


15.8 


53.8 


15.3 


56.1 


18.6 


52.9 


16.4 


52.4 


19.1 


54.0 


16.5 


45.3 


14.4 


62.5 


19.2 


49.2 


14.3 


58.9 


11.9 


53.7 


26.4 


52.5 


15.7 


63.4 


18.3 


68.3 


20.1 


39.0 


13.8 


51.9 


15.4 


46.8 


13.7 


45.5 


15.4 


50.3 


16.0 


48.5 


15.1 


45.1 


14.3 


40.8 


13.2 


44.9 


12.0 


66.5 


18.9 


36.8 


14.5 


30.7 


12.6 


7.9 


1.9 


18.4 


9.5 


55.2 


18.2 


22.2 


27.9 


57.2 


19.6 


88.6 


2.1 


92.9 


4.4 


84.5 


4.6 


90.0 


1.8 


43.7 


12.8 


47.1 


13.7 


38.5 


13.4 


42.4 


16.1 


58 5 


11.1 


61.9 


15.3 


40.4 


10.2 


50.7 


12.8 


35.2 


9.4 


71.2 


20.9 


40.2 


16.0 


56.8 


19.5 


53.6 


23.7 


88.3 


6.0 


80.8 


10.6 


36.7 


7.9 


30.7 


5.9 



Fat 


Carbo- 




hydrates 


Per cent 


Per cent 



Ash 
Per cent 



BEEF, Freeh: 

Chuck, including shoulder 

Chuck ribs 

Flank 

Loin 

Porterhouse steak 

Sirloin steak 

Ribs 

Round 

BEEF, Corned, Canned. Pickled 
Dried: 

Corned beef 

Tongue, pickled 

Dried, Salted and Smoked 

VEAL: 

Breast 

Leg 

Leg cutlets 

MUTTON: 

Plank 

Leg, hind 

Shoulder 

LAMB: 

Breast 

Leg, hind 

PORK, Fresh: 

Flank 

Ham 

Loin chops 

Shoulder 

Tenderloin 

PORK, Salted, Cured and Pickled: 

Ham, smoked 

Shoulder, smoked 

Salt pork 

Bacon, smoked 

SAUSAGE: 

Bologna 

Farmer 

Frankfort 

SOUPS: 

Celery, cream of 

Beef 

Meat stew 

Tomato 

POULTRY: 

Chicken, broilers 

Fowls 

Goose 

Turkey 

FISH: 

Cod, dressed 

Halibut, steaks or sections 

Mackerel, whole 

Perch, yellow, dressed 

Shad, whole 

Shad, roe 

FISH.Salt: Cod 

FISH, Canned: 

Salmon 

Sardines 

SHELLFISH: 

Oysters, "Solids" 

Clams 

Crabs 

Lobsters 



and 



17.3 
19.1 

5.5 
13.3 
12.7 
12.8 
20.1 

8.5 



8.4 
6.0 
4.7 

23.3 
11.7 
3.4 

9.9 
17.7 
22.1 

19.1 
13.8 

18.0 
10.3 
19.3 
12.4 



12.2 
18.9 



8.7 



3.3 
3.9 



41.6 
25.9 
17.6 
22.7 

29.9 
17.7 
44.7 
35.1 
50.1 



24.9 



14.2 
5.0 



52.4 
61.7 



12.5 
11.1 
19.9 
16.9 
17.9 
16.1 
20.0 
9.2 



23.8 
19.2 
6.9 

8.2 
5.8 
7.5 

36.9 
14.5 
17.1 

19.1 
19.7 

18.6 
29.7 
26.0 
29.8 
13.0 

33.2 
33.0 
86.2 
59.4 

19.7 
40.4 
18.6 

2.8 

.4 

4.3 

1.1 

1.4 
12.3 
29.8 
18.4 

.2 
4.4 
4.2 

.7 
4.8 



7.5 
12.1 



1.3 
1.1 



5.0 
1.1 
5 5 
5.6 



2.6 



3.3 
5.2 



0.7 
.8 
.8 
.9 
.8 
.9 
.7 

1.0 



4.6 
4.3 
8.9 

.8 
1.0 
1.0 

.6 

.8 
.7 



.7 
.8 
.8 
.7 
1.0 

4.2 
5.0 
3.9 
4.5 

3.8 
7.3 
3.4 

1.5 
1.2 
1.1 
1.5 

.7 
.7 
.7 



.8 
.9 
.7 
.9 
.7 
1.5 
18.5 

2.0 
5.3 

1.1 
2.3 
1.5 



From the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



NOTES: 



Tx-sson 70B] 



DIETARY STUDIES 



Muiu IV.— For family •quiT»l«nt to 4 m«n at moderate muscular work 



[Page 177] 



FOOD MATERIALS 


Weight 


Cost 


Protein 


Fuel 

Value 


Breakfast 

Baked apples 


Lbs. Oz. 
2 
8 
10 
3 
10 
8 

4 

8 
2 


Cents 
2 

44 

11 
1 

} « 

4 

3i 


Pounds 

0.008 

.041 

.020 


Calories 
510 


Boilprl hnminy 


823 


Milk ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::":': :::: 


202 


Sugar 


350 


Broiled sirloin 


.099 
.009 

/ .032 
\ .067 


650 


Pototoes 


162 


Muffins: 

legg 


162 


2 cups flour 


820 


Butter 


435 


Coffee 


.010 


410 








Total 




31 


.276 


4,524 








Dinner 

Tomato soup 


2 

2 

3 

2 

1 8 

4 

4 

1 
4 


6 
20 
44 

3 

3 
2 
3J 


.036 
.332 
.054 

f .016 
.006 


370 


Veal stew, shoulder 


1,350 


Potatoes 


975 


Apple dumpling: 

legg 


81 


4 apples 


382 


J cup lard 


1,055 


1 cup flour 


.028 
/ 


410 


Sauce for dumpling: 

Butter 


217 


Sugar. . , 


\ 


465 


Bread 


^ .071 


904 


Butter 


217 


Coffee or tea 


.010 


410 








Total 




50 


.553 


6,836 








Supper or Lunch 

Dried canned corned beef 


8 1 
12 

1 6 


6 
1 
4 
3 
7 
2 


.142 
.009 
.070 


560 


Potato croquette 


162 


Biscuit 


1,297 


Butter 


325 


Oranges, 4 


.007 
.046 


400 


Skim milk 


234 






Total 


1 


23 


.274 


2,987 












104 


1.103 


14,333 








Total for one man 


1 


26 


.275 


3,585 




1 





U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



\ 

[Page 178] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE [Lesson 71A] 

Menus for Balanced Meals 



[Lesson 71B] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Page 179] 



mifU I.— For family eauiT»l«nt to 4 men at mod«rat» muicular work 





Weight 


Cost 


Protein 


Fuel 
Value 


Broakfart 

Cfwpf»l , oatmeal 


Lbs. Oi. 

3 
6 
2 

8 
8 

1 
8 
4 
8 
1* 


Cents 
2* 

8 

8 

? 

3 
2 
3 
3* 


Pounds 

0.029 

.012 

■ '!646" 
.006 
.018 
.034 


Calories 
360 


Milk 


64 


iSuear 


232 


Bacon 


1,390 


Fggfi, 4 


322 


Baked potatoes 


325 


Buckwheat oiUcee, prepared buckwheat 


780 


Maple ssrrup 


827 


Bread 


.048 


603 


Butter 


225 


CoflFee 


.010 


410 








Total 




36* 


.262 


5,028 








Dlzmor 

Bouillon 


1 
1 8 
1 
1 
1 8 
4 
3 


15 
30 

2 

3 

6 

4 

3 

9 

5 

I' 
3* 


.020 
.228 
.018 
.009 
.072 
.029 
.049 

1 .028 


45 


RxmiTt lamb, leg 


1.282 


Mashed potatoes 


325 


CucumDers ...... 


52 


ar^n pfnw, uKaII^ , , 


382 


Macaroni..'. 


410 


Cheese 


369 


Fruit pudding: 

1 cup flour 


410 


Siigftr _ , . , . . 


465 


leS ..........:.:.:...;...::; ;; .. 


y .6i6 

.008 

J .013 

] .016 
.010 

"■*;636* 


81 


f cup milk . 


81 


i cup fruit 


817 


Foamy sauce for pudding: 

1 egg 


81 


§ cup milk , . , . . , . . 


102 


i c\ip sugar . , . . 


465 


Bread.. '....7 


452 


Butter 


217 


TeaorcofiFee 


.010 


410 








Total 




84 


.662 


6,446 








Supper or Lunch 

Chicken croquettes: 

Chicken meat ; . 


8 
1 
1 
2 
2 
8 
8 

J» 

1 


18 

3 
2 
3 

38 
88 
5 


.114 
.107 
.001 
.016 
.012 
.006 
.048 


250 


Flour 


103 


Onions 


13 


1 egg 


81 


BrSi : :...::....: ..:.:::::::: 


151 


Lettuce 


4& 


Bread 


603 




325 




.026 
.010 
.030 


619 


Berries 


175 


Chocolate or cocoa, with milk and sugar, cream 


625 










42 


.2698 


e 2,^'' 








Total per day 




161i 


1.093 


14,461 












40 


.270 


3,615 









U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



[Page 180] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesaon 72A] 

TEST QUESTIONS 



COMPANY LUNCHEON 

YELLOW COLOR SCHEME 

Cream of Veal Soup 

Garnished with Yellow Custard 

Curled Celery Olives 

Meat Croquettes 

Buttered Carrots and Peas in Potato Cases Bechamel Sauce 

Fruit Salad in Orange Cups 

Cheese Straws Salted Almonds 

Lemon Pudding 

Angel's Food Whipped Cream 

Coffee 



[Lesson 72B] COMPANY LUNCHEON [Page 181] 




MENU n 

PINK COLOR SCHEME 

Crab Meat Cocktail 
Cream of Tomato Soup Zephyrettes 

Lamb Chops 

Creamed Potatoes Relish in Lemon Boats 

Rolls Butter Balls 

Neufchatel Cheese and Pimento Salad 
Salad Rolls 

Strawberry Charlotte Strawberry Sauce 

White Cake — Pink Frosting 

Coffee 



COST OF PREPARING ABOVE MENUS TO SERVE SIX 
Materials Quantity Cost 



[Page 182] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES-SEMESTER IV. 



1 small piece liver 
1 slice bacon 



LESSON 55B 



1 tsp. bacon fat 
ly^ tsp. flour 



^ c. boiling water 



DOUGHNUTS I 

2 tbsp. sugar 

1 tsp. butter 

1% tbsp. beaten egg 

2 tbsp. milk 

APPLE FRITTERS 

% apple 
6 tbsp. flour 
% tsp. B. P. 



LESSON 56B 

7 tbsp. flour (plus enough 
to roll) or % cup scant 
%t8p.B.P. 
Few grs. cinnamon 



% tsp. sugar 
Few grs. salt 



LESSON 57B 



Few grs. nutmeg 
Va tsp. salt 



2% tbsp. milk 

1 tbsp. beaten egg 



STEAMED BREAD 

3 tbsp. graham flour 

Vs tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. Indian meal 

Vs tsp. soda 

1 tbsp. molasses 

31/3 tbsp. milk 



STEAMED PUDDING 

3 tbsp. entire wheat flour 
1-16 tsp. soda 
1-16 tsp. salt 
1 tbsp. molasses 
1 tbsp. milk 
1 tsp. beaten egg 
% tsp. melted butter 
.2 tbsp. raisins 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 
■ 1 tbsp. boiling water 
2 tbsp. milk 
2 tsp. sugar 



LESSON 58B 



14 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. butter 

6 tbsp. flour (plus) 



1 yeast cake mixed wi^h 
1 tbsp. lukewarm water 



WHITE BREAD 

1 tbsp. scalded milk 

2 tbsp. boiling water 
1 tsp. butter 



LESSON 59B 

Vs tsp. salt 

% tsp. sugar 

1 yeast cake mixed with 



1 tbsp. lukewarm water 
% c. flour (plus) 



QUICK CAKE 

1 tbsp. butter 

2% tbsp. brown sugar 

1 tbsp. beaten egg 

1 tbsp. milk ' 

3y2 tbsp. flour (broad) 
1/3 tsp. B. P. 
Few grs. cinnamon 
Few grs. nutmeg 

2 dates cut in pieces 



LESSON 60B 

ORANGE CAKE 

1 tbsp. butter 
31^ tbsp. sugar 

2 tsp. beaten egg 
Ve orange rind 

2 tbsp. milk 
7 tbsp. flour 
Va tsp. B. P. ' 



LESSON 60A 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

4 tsp. butter 
2% tbsp. sugar 
4 tsp. beaten egg 

4 tsp. milk 

5 tbsp. flour 
Vj tsp. B. P. 

% square chocolate (melted) 
Few drops vanilla 



ORANGE FILLING 

4 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. flour 
V2 beaten egg 
Grated, rind i/4 orange 

2 tbsp. orange juice 
1/4 tsp. lemon juice 



ORANGE FROSTING 

1 tsp. orange juice 
Vs tsp. lemon juice 
Rind ^2 orange 
V2 yolk of egg 
Confectioners* sugar 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES— SEMESTER IV. 
LESSON 61B 



[Page 1^3] 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE 
1 yolk 

4 tbsp. sugai: 
% tbsp. water 

ANGEL'S FOOD 

1 White (beaten) 
Vs tap. C. of T. 



SUGAR COOKIES 

% tbsp. butter 

1 tbsp. sugar 

% tbsp. beaten egg 

PEANUT COOKIES 

% tbsp. butter 

1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. beaten egg 

BOSTON COOKIES 

1 tbsp. butter 
%tbsp. sugar 

2 tsp. egg 



1 tbsp. butter 



RICH COOKIES 

2 tsp. sugar 



PASTRY 

% c. flour 



APPLE FILLING 

1 large apple 
Few grs. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar 

LEMON FILLING 

Ys c. sugar 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 

MERINGUE 

1 beaten white 



CRANBERRY JELLY 

% c. cranberries 



ORANGE ICE 

6 tbsp. water 
3 tbsp. sugar 



FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

1 yolk 

1^ tbsp. sugar 



FRUIT SALAD 

1/4 orange 

CHOCOLATE 

^ square chocolate 



1 tsp. cornstarch 
4 tbsp. flour 
Va tsp. B. P. 



2 tbsp. sugar 
1% tbsp. flour 

LESSON 62B 

1 tsp. milk 

3 tbsp. flour (plus enough 
to make a dough) 



2 tbsp. flour 
V4 tsp. B. p. 
Few grs. salt 
1% tsp. milk 

1-15 tsp. soda 
Vs tsp. hot water 

3 tbsp. flour 
Few grs. salt 



Few grs. salt 

1 White (beaten) 

Few drops lemon or vanilla 



Few grs. salt 
8 drops- vanilla 



Ys tsp. B. P. 
Few grs. salt 
Few grs. nutmeg 

3 tbsp. finely chopped pea- 
nuts 
Ys tsp. lemon juice 



1-12 tsp. cinnamon 
1 tbsp. chopped nuts 
% tbsp. chopped raisins 



%yolk 
LESSON 63A 



% tsp. cream 



% cup flour 



Ye tsp. salt 

4 tsp. to 2% tbsp. butter 

LESSON 63B 

1/4 tsp. butter 
Few grs. cinnamon 
^ tsp. lemon juice 

Va c. boiling water 
Va tsp. butter 
1 yolk 

1 tbsp. sugar 

LESSPN 65B 
Y4: c. boiling water 

LESSON 64B 

3 tbsp. orange juice 

1 tsp. lemon juice 

LESSON 66A 

IY2 tbsp. vinegar 
Few grs. salt 

LESSON 66B 

Va banana 
3 grapes 

2 tbsp. sugar 

3 tbsp. boiling water 



About 1% tbsp. cold water 



Few gratings lemon rind 
Few grs. nutmeg 



iMi tbsp. lemon juice 
Rind Vs lernon 



% c. sugar 



Grated rind Ye orange 
Few gratings lemon rind 



2 tbsp.whipped cream 

% slice pineapple 
% c. milk 



[Page 184] P.ASIC PRIXCriMJvS OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 185] 



[Page 186] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOBIESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 187] 



[Page 188] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE 



NOTES: [Page 189] 



[Page 190] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 191] 



[Page 192] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCTENCE 



INDEX 



Abbreviations 13 

Absorption 148 

Acid and Salt Supplying Foods 98-168 

Air 24 

Air in Its Relation to Cookery 32 

Air in Its Relation to Fire 26 

Air in Its Relation to Life 24 

Albumen, Experiments 100 

Angel's Food 159 

Apples, Baked 25 

Apple Fritters 149 

Apple John 73 

Apple Pie 163 

Apples, Scalloped 31 

Apple Snow 35 

Apples, Sweet Pickled 99 

Apple Tapioca 37 

Approximate Measure of One Pound .... 66 

Apricots, Stewed 167 

Asparagus, Boiled 15 

Asparagus, Canned 17 

Assimilation 148 

Average Composition of American Food 

Products 158-164-176 

Average Composition of Eggs 100 

Average Composition of Wheat Flour.. . . 58 

Bacon Recipes 147 

Bacon I 147 

Bacon 11 147 

Baked Apples 25 

Baked Bananas 25 

Baked Beans 147 

Baked Bean Soup 27 

Baked Custards 103 

Baked Fish 127 

Baked Macaroni With Cheese 59 

Baked Potatoes 51 

Baking Powder 62 

Composition — ^Recipe 62 

Biscuits 71 

Experiments 62 ' 

Bananas, Baked 25 

Barley Water 172 

Batters 60-61 

Bechamel Sauce 125 

Beef 118 

Beef a la Mode 113 

Beef, Cuts of 116 

Beef, Essence, Broiled 112 

Beef, How to Prepare 118 

Beef Loaf Ill 

leef Roast Sandwich, Hot 23 

^ef Stew 113 

3f Tea 112 

Be ts — ^Boiled 15 

Beverages 170 

Biscuits 152 

Blackberries, Preserved 99 

Blueberry Cakes 71 



Boston Cookies 161 

Braidng 117 

Bread 75-152-155 

Bread, Beaten 74 

Bread, Entire Wheat 155 

Bread, Graham 75 

Bread, Rolled Oats 75 

Bread, Rye 155 

Bread, White 155 

Bread, Whole Wheat .1 75 

Bread, Whole Wheat TI 75 

Bread Griddle Cakes 61 

Bread Pudding, Custard 103 

Breaded Veal Cutlets 123 

Breakfast 41 

Broiling 115 

Broiled Beef Essence 112 

Broiled Fish 127 

Broiled Steak * 115 

Brown Sauce 125 

Buying Milk 104 

Cabbage, Boiled 15 

Cabbage Salad 39 

Cabbage, Shredded 39 

Cake 68-69-157 

Cake Fillings and Frostings 156 

Cakes Without Butter 159 

Candy. Chocolate Fudge, French Cream, 
Peanut Candy, Pinoche, Sea Foam, 

Taffy 57 

Canned Fruits. Apples, Cherries, Peaches, 

Pears, Plums, Yellow Tomatoes 99 

Canning. General Directions for 17-98 

Canning and Preserving Fruit 98 

Canning Vegetables, Directions for 17 

Caper Sauce 129 

Caramel Custard 103 

Caramel Ice Cream 109 

Carbohydrates 50-52-54-56 

Care of Dishes 12 

Care of Dish Cloths and Towels 11 

Care of Dust Cloths 11 

'Care of Refrigerator 18 

Care of Sink 18 

Care of Sweeping Utensils 10 

Care of Utensils 20 

Carrots, Boiled 15 

Cauliflower, Boiled 15 

Celery, Boiled 15 

Celery Soup, Cream of 29 

Cereals 52-53 

General Rules for Cooking.- 52 

Cereal Omelet '. 53 

Cheap Sponge Cake 159 

Cheese 106 

Cheese Dishes 107 

Cheese Canapes 23 

Cl»ese Custard 103 

Cheese Fondue .107 



[Page 194] 



INDEX 



Cheese Sandwiches — ^Toasted 107 

Cheese Souffle 107 

Cheese Straws 107 

Chemical Treatment of Foods 16 

Cherries, Canned ^ . . 99 

Chicken Croquettes 123 

Chicken — ^How to Dress, Clean, Stuff and 

Truss .121 

Chicken Loaf Ill 

Chicken, Roast 121 

Chicken Sandwich, Hot 23 

Chocolate 170 

Chocolate Cake 157 

Chocolate Cookies 161 

Chocolate Custard 103 

Chocolate Eclaire 34 

Chocolate Frosting 34-156 

Chocolate Fud^ 57 

Chocolate Ice Cream 109 

Chocolate Loaf Cake 69 

Chocolate, to Make 171 

Clams 132 

Cleanliness, Necessity for 9 

Cleanliness of Person 9 

Cleanliness of Room 10 

Club House Sandwich 23 

Cocoa .170 

Cocoa, Breakfast 171 

Cocoanut Cookies 161 

Coffee 1 70 

Coffee, Boiled 171 

Coffee, Filtered 171 

Cold Slaw 139 

Cold Storage .16 

Combustion 26 

Company Luncheon 181 

Comparative Cost of Foods, Used in Bat- 
ters and Doughs 70 

Composition of Fish, Mollusks, Crusta- 
ceans, etc 128-130 

Composition of Meats 124 

Cooked Fruits 167 

•Cookies 161 

Com 64 

Com Cakes 65 

Com, Canned 17 

Com Meal Gems 63 

Com Oysters 19 

Corn Soup, Cream of 29 

Cottage Cheese 105 

Course Luncheon 138 

Crabs 132 

Crabapples— Sweet Pickled 99 

Crackers and Cheese 29 

Cranberry Jelly 167 

Cranberry Muffins 63 

Cranberry Sauce 167 

Cream Cakes 69 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches 77 

Cream Filling 34 

Cream Puffs 34 

Cream Sponge Cake .*. 159 

Cream Toast 21 

Cream Tomato Sauce 125 

Cream of Vegetable Soups. Celery, Corn, 

Pea, Potato, Tomato 29 

Creamed Oysters 133 



Creamed Potatoes 51 

Croquettes, Preparation 123 

Croustades of Bread 21 

Croutons 27 

Custards, Baked 103 

Custard Bread Pudding 103 

Custard Sauce 35 

Cuts of Beef 116 

Definition of Meat 110 

Dietary Studies 174-175-177 

Different Ways of Preparing Vegetables. 19 

Digestion 148 

Processes, Organs 148 

Dinner — ^Directions 42 

Directions for Canning Vegetables 17 

Directions for Canning and Preserving 

Fmit 98 

Directions for Freezing 108 

Directions for Soup-Making 112 

Dough 60 

Doughnuts I 149 

Doughnuts n 149 

Drawn Butter Sauce 129 

Dried Fruits — General Rules for Cooking.166 

Drop Batter 60 

Drying Foods 16 

Dry Toast 21 

Dumplings for Stews 71 

Dusting 13 

Eggs. Composition and Experiments . . . 100 

Eggs, Cooked 101 

Eggs a la Goldenrod 31 

Eggs, Hard and Soft Cooked 101 

EggNogg 173 

Eggs, Poached 101 

Egg Sandwich 77 

Egg Sauce 129 

Eggs, Scalloped 31 

Eggs, Scrambled 101 

Eggs, Stuffed 101 

Elimination 148 

Entire Wheat Bread 155 

Entire Wheat Pudding 151 

Equivalents 13 

Fairy Gingerbread 67 

Fat as a Frying Medium 149 

Fats and Oils. Sources, Uses, Digestion, 

Etc 146 

Fish. Methods of Cooking and Cleaning . 126 

Fish Baked 127 

Fish Balls 131 

Fish, Boiled 127 

Fish, Broiled 127 

Fish, Composition of 126 

Fish Croquettes 131 

Fish, Fried 127 

Fish Sauces and Stuffings 129 

Fish, Sauted 127 

Fish Stuffing 129 

Fish, Turban of 131 

Floating Island 55 

Flour Mixtures 60 

Food 

Definition, Principles 36-68 

Food Preservation 16 



INDfiX 



[PagelQQ 



Pood Value of Kuts 160 

Freexing 108 

French Cream 57 

French Fried Potatoes 123 

French Salad Dressing 168 

Fresh Eggs 102 

Fried Fish 127 

Fried Oysters 31 

Frozen Fruit Juice Mixtures 165 

Frozen Milk and Cream Mixtures 109 

Fruits 98 

Fruit Dumplings 73 

Fruit Ice 165 

Fruit Salad 169 

Fruit Salad Dressing 168 

Fruit Sandwiches 77 

Fruit Tapioca and Sago Pudding 37 

Frying 122-123 

Game 110 

Gelatine 134 

Gelatine Desserts 137 

General Directions for Batters and 

Doughs 60 

General Directions for Making Bread 

that Requires No Kneading 74 

General Directions for Serving Breakfast 41 
General Rules for Cooking Vegetables. . . 15 

German Toast 25 

Gingerbread 67 

Graham Bread 75 

Graham Muffins 63 

Grape Frappe 165 

Grape Sauce 35 

Gravy 119 

Green Com, Boiled 15 

Green Peas, Boiled 15 

Griddle Cakes 61 

Ham and Egg Sandwich 77 

Hamburg Steak 115 

Hard Cooked Eggs 101 

Hard Sauce 151 

Hollandaise Sauce I 129 

Hollandaise Sauce II 129 

Horseradish Sauce 129 

Hot Meat Sandwiches 23 

Hot-Water Gingerbread 67 

How to Break an Egg 102 

How to Build a Fire 30 

How to Combine Ingredients 13 

How to Make Ice Cream or Ices With- 
out a Freezer ' 108 

How to Preserve Eggs 102 

Hunter's Pudding 151 

Ice Cream • 109 

Imperial Sticks 29 

Individual Recipes for First Semester.44-45 
Individual Recipes for Second Semester.SO- 81 
Individual Recipes for Third Semes- 
ter 140-141 

Individual Recipes for Fourth Semes- 
ter 182-183 

Invalid Cookery 172-173 

Kinds of Meat 110 



Jams 166 

Jams — General Rules 166 

Jellies 166 

Jelly Making— -General Rules 166 

Junket 105 

Lamb 110 

Laying the Table 40 

Lemon Ice 165 

Lemon Jelly 135 

Lemon Pie I and H , 163 

Lemon Pudding ; 137 

Lemon Sauce 25 

Lemon Syrup 61 

Lettuce Sandwiches 77 

Lima Beans — ^Boiled 15 

Liquids 173 

Liver and Bacon 147 

Lobsters 132 

Luncheon Prepared from Left-Overs 43 

Macaroni 59 

Macaroni, Boiled 59 

Macaroni Salad 59 

Macaroni With Cheese 59 

Macaroni With Tomato Sauce 59 

Macaroni With White Sauce 59 

Maitre de Hotel Butter 115 

Mashed Potatoes 51 

Mayonnaise Dressing 168 

Meat im 

Meat Experiments 112-114 

Meat Jellies 134 

Meat Loaf Mixtures Ill 

Meat Loaf Ill 

Meat, Methods of Cooking 

11(^-H2-114-117-119 

Meat Salad *. .169 

Meat Sandwich 77 

Meat Sauces 125 

Measuring 13 

Menus 43-79-139-178-179 

Meringue 163 

Methods of Cooking and Cleaning Fish . . 126 

Methods of Cooking Meat 

110-112-114-117-119 

Milk 104 

Milk Albumen 173 

Milk, Composition 104 

Milk Products 104 

Milk Sherbet 109 

Milk Toast 21 

Mint Sauce 125 

Muffins — Plain, Graham, Oatmeal, Cran- 
berry 63 

Mutton 110 

Norwegian Prune Pudding 37 

Nut Cake, Loaf 69 

Nut Ice Cream 109 

Nutrients 172 

Oatmeal Gruel 173 

Oatmeal Muffins 63 

Oatmeal Mush With Apples 53 

Object of Cooking Meat 114 

Oils 140 

Omelets , 33 



[Page 196] 



INDEX 



Omelet, Cereal 53 

Omelet, Oyster 33 

Omelet, Plain 33 

Omelet, With Meat and Vegetables 33 

Onions, Boiled 15 

Orange Albumen 173 

Orange Cake 157 

Orange Charlotte 137 

Orange Filling 156 

Orange Frosting 156 

Orange Ice 165 

Orange Jelly 135 

Orange Marmalade 167 

Organs of Digestion 148 

Oven Tests 68 

Oysters 132-133 

Oysters, Creamed 133 

Oysters, Fried 31 

. Ovster Omelet 33 

Oysters on the Half Shell 133 

Oysters, Scalloped 31 

Oyster Stew 133 

Pan-broiled Chops 115 

Parker House Rolls 153 

Parsnips, Boiled 15 

Pasteurized Milk 105 

Pastry 162 

Peach Canapes 25 

Peaches, Canned 99 

Peach Tapioca 37 

Pears, Canned 99 

Pears, Sweet Pickled 99 

Peas, Canned 17 

Peas and Carrots' 19 

Pea Soup 27 

Pea Soup, Cream of 29 

Peanut Candy 57 

Peanut Cookies 161 

Pettijohn's Breakfast Food 53 

Pickling 166 

Pineapple Charlotte 137 

Pineapple Sherbet 165 

Pinoche 57 

Pin Wheel Biscuit 71 

Plain Cake 157 

Plain Frosting 150 

Plain Muffins 63 

Plums, Canned 99 

Plum Pudding Without Eggs 151 

Plums, Sweet Pickled 99 

Poached Eggs 101 

Popovers 33 

Potatoes 51 

Potatoes, Baked t 51 

Potatoes, Boiled 51 

Potatoes, Creamed 51 

Potato Croquettes 123 

Potatoes, French Fried 123 

Potatoes, Mashed 51 

Potato Nests Ill 

Potato Puffs .., 51 

Potatoes, Riced 51 

Potato Salad 39 

Potato Soup, Cream of 29 

Pot Roast 113 



Poultry. How to Dress, Clean, Stuflf and 

Truss 120 

Pour Batter 60 

Preservation of Eggs 102 

Preserved Fruits. Blackberries, Rasp- 

Jberries, Strawberries 99 

Preserving Fruits 98 

Preserving With Sugar 98 

Practice Test Lesson 43-79 

Proteids 

. 100-102-104-106-110-112-117-119-120-126 

Proteid Sparers — Gelatine 134 

Prune Pudding 37 

Prunes, Stewed 167 

Prune Whip 35 

Pudding a la Macedoine 135 

Purees 29 

Quick Biscuits . . . , 71 

Quick Cake 69 

Raspberry Charlotte 137 

Raspberry Jelly 135 

Raspberries, Preserved 99 

Recipes for Left-Overs of Meat 23 

Rennet Custard 105 

Rhubarb Pie 163 

Rice 54-55 

Rice, Boiled 55 

Rice Croquettes 123 

Riced Potatoes 51 

Rice Steamed in Water 55 

Rice With Apples or Pineapples 55 

Rice Water 173 

Rich Cookies 161 

Rich Corn Cake 65 

Roast Beef Sandwich, Hot 23 

Roasting 119 

Rolled Flank of Beef 117 

Rolled Oats Bread 75 

Rolls, Parker House, Sweet 153 

Russian Salad 169 

Rye Bread 155 

Sago Pudding 35 

Salads 168-169 

Salad Dressing Cooked . 39 

Salmon Loaf 131 

Salmon Salad 39 

Salmon Sandwiches 77 

Salting ]6 

Sandwiches 77 

Sandwiches — General Directions 76 

Sandwiches, Clubhouse 23 

Sandwiches, Cream Cheese 77 

Sandwiches, Egg 77 

Sandwiches, Fruit 77 

Sandwiches, Ham and Egg 77 

Sandwiches, Lettuce 77 

Sandwiches, Salmon 77 

Sandwiches, Sliced Meat 77 

Sanitary Housekeeping 9-10 

Sauces. General Rules for Making 125 

Sauces, Fish 129 

Sauces, Meat 125 

Sauted Fish 127 

Scalloped Dishes 31 

Scalloped Apples 31 



iNDEiX 



tPage:i97] 



Scalloped Eggd 31 

Scalloped Oysters 31 

Scalloped Tomatoes 31 

Scrambled Eggs 101 

Sea Foam 57 

Selection of Meat 110 

Semi-Solids 172 

Shell Fish 132 

Short Cake I 7:i 

Short Cake II T.\ 

Shredded Cabbage 39 

Shrimps 132 

Simple Dinner 139 

Sink 22 

Sliced Meat Sandwiches 77 

Smoking 16 

Snow Pudding 135 

Soft Cooked Eggs 101 

Soft Diet 172 

Soft Dough 60 

Solids 172 

Soups 27 

Sour Cream Corn Cake 65 

Sour Cream Gingerbread 67 

Sour Milk Cheese 105 

Sour Milk Corn Cake 65 

Sour Milk Doughnuts 149 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 67 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 61 

Spaghetti 59 

Spanish Cream 137 

Spanish Fritters 19 

Spinach, Boiled 15 

Sponge Cake 159 

Starch 50 

Stoak 115 

Steamed Bread 151 

Steamed Mixtures 150 

Steamed Rice 55 

Steaming 1 50 

Sterilization 17 

Stewed Apricots 167 

Stewed Prunes 167 

Stewing. General Directions for 113 

Stiff Dough ^ 60 

Stoves 28 

Strawberry Charlotte 137 

Strawberry Ice Cream 109 

Strawberry Preserves 99 

Strawberry Tapioca 37 

String Beans, Boiled 15 

String Beans, Canned 17 

Stuffed Eggs 101 

Stuffed Tomatoes 19 

Stuffing ...117 

Stuffing I, n (Chestnut), III, IV, V. . ' !l21 

Stuffing, Fish 129 

Succotash 19 

Sugar 56 

Sugar Cookies 1 161 

Sugar Cookies II 161 

Sunshine Cake, Small 159 

Sweeping 10 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 99 

Sweet Rolls 153 

Sweet Water Melon Pickles 99 



Table Showing Composition of Cereals . . 52 

Table Showing Composition of Meat 124 

Taffy 57 

Tapioca Cream Pudding 35 

Tea 170 

Tea Cakes 71 

Tea, to Make 171 

Ten Cents Will Purchase 136 

Tests for Temperature of Oven 68 

Thick Sauce 123 

Thick White Sauce 125 

Thin White Sauce 21 

Time-Table for Baking Batters and 

Doughs 66 

Time-Table for Boiling Meat and Fish . . 124 

Time-Table for Broiling 115 

Time-Table for Canning Vegetables 17 

Time-Table for Cooking Vegetables in 

Water 15 

Time-Table for Roasting 119 

Toast 21 

Toast, Cream 21 

Toast, Dry 21 

Toast, German 25 

Toast, Milk 21 

Toast, Water 173 

Tomato Cream Sauce 125 

Tomato Salad 169 

Tomato Sauce 23-111-125 

Tomatoes, Scalloped 31 

Tomato Soup 27 

Tomato Soup, Cream of 29 

Tomatoes Stuffed 19 

To Remove Cakes from Pan 68 

To Separate the Yolk from the White. .102 

Turban of Fish 131 

Turnips, Boiled 15 

Typical Food 100 

Uniform, Description of 8 

Uses for Stale Bread 21-23-25 

VaniUa Cookies 161 

Vanilla Ice Cream I 109 

Vanilla Ice Cream II 109 

Veal 110 

Veal Birds 117 

Veal Croquettes 123 

Veal Cutlets, Breaded 123 

Vegetables. General Directions for Cook- 
ing 15 

Vegetables. Directions for Canning 17 

Vegetable Oyster Stew 133 

Vegetable Soup 27 

Vermicell i _.. 59 

Virginia iflke •. . 65 

Waffles .. . 1 61 

Waldorf Saftd 169 

Washing Dishes 12 

Water. Composition, Uses 14 

Water as a Cleaning Agent 18-20 

Water as a Means of Carrying Away 

Waste Matter 22 

Water as a Sterilizing Medium 16 

Water Carriage System — Plumbing 22 

Water Lily Salad i69 

Water Toast 21 



[Page 198] 



INDEX 



Welsh Rabbit 107 

Wheat. Composition 58 

Wheatena With Fruit 53 

White Bread 155 

White Cake 157 

White Custard 103 

White Mountain Cream 156 

White Sauce 125 

Whipped Cream 34-105 

Whole Wheat Bread 1 75 



Whole Wheat Bread n » . , , ": 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes 

Why Eggs Spoil 1 

Yeast. Experiments • 

Yeast and Its Action 1 . , 

Yeast MuflSns • 

Yellow Custard 1 

Yellow Sauce 1 ^ 




THIS BOOK IS DXTE ON THE LAST DATE 
STABffPED BEIX>W 



AN INITIAL FINE OF 26 CENTS 

WILL BE ASSESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN 
THIS BOOK ON THE DATE DUE. THE PENALTY 
WILL INCREASE TO BO CENTS ON THE FOURTH 
DAY AND TO Sl.OO ON THE SEVENTH DAY 
OVERDUE. 



JAN 20 1934 




JAN 221934 


1 






JUL 23 1947 






































] 








i 
1 




i 












1 




1 
LD 21~100m-7,'33 



YC 18594 



3\ 







UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 




BASIC PRINCIPLES of 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



LILLA FRICH; A B 




Qass !_ 

Book._ 

Copyright N^_ 

CDpyRicKr 



BASIC 

PRINCIPLES 

rf 
DOMESTIC 

SCIENCE 



CONSISTING OF A 
COURSE OF SEVRNTV- 
TWO ILLUSTRATED 

IJiSS^iNS - 



LILLA fRlCH,A.B. 

Suix:r\-Jsor Domestic Science 
MinneaiKjHs Public Schools. 



Copyright, 190S 

C'opyiif^hl. Retnsed Edition. V/U 

by 

fJlla Frich 



MuN'CiE Normal Institute 

PCELISHERS 
MfNCIE. INDIANA 









r\ 


' iPyjMI'^E fij' 





)C!A330254 



BASiC VKDifSIPLES rji 



JESC-W. 



COHTERT 



lAaaaus A. Thenzj. 

'.. '.'.i.form. hi:^:Z.'-yn* tor 

It* 



4. SCmIj «rf Water, ba U*». 

5, Water zi a StenEzni^ Mednxm. 

6, Water aff a C1eaaia$; Ag^»t: Kt.. 

Cairf!^ <i€ Befr^aatar. 

7. Water 2» a Qnmimg J^eait—Cmmi. 

», Water as a Meaa» «rf C aiijiuig Away 

Wa»te Matter: rtaMliiiji 
». Study of Air fa It.% Eelafciaa to Life. 

lOi Stndy r>f Air n Its Beiatna to Ftn>. 

IL Stody of Air m Its SdatieB to Fire — 
Coct. Stores. 

12. How to Eoild a Fire. 

13. Air in It» Rdbtioa to OM^coy. 

14. Air ia Its BelsitiflB toCbeiceFy. 

15. Feed in Its Belatkm to tbe Jkiij. 

16. ClaaafieatiMocFoQd. 

17. LayiB^tkeTabfeL 




Water as a Goofeni^ MedhxH: Ex_ 

Boifii? oc Tegrtafefcs^ 
EiL^ Gmn^ of Te^etabfef. 
PisparatisK of Fmfe Covtaxni;- 

tar^ Ptiree^a^E ac Water: Vt 

Vii^i^abfea. 
U^es atr Staie Boad. :)6&- Toasc 




19. Stndy of Carbohydrates H^at and 

Eaergy Prodaecss. 

30. C ar b ohj diateg, Sfai^ of— Cereafe. 

2L CariMkydrates, Stady of— Eiee 

22. CariiAydrates^Stadyof— So^ar. 

23. C ai bohjdiates, Stndy of— WIi«t 
34. FVmb- Mixtort?^ 

2.). StndT of B^kii^ Povder aad Its 
AeCimL 

26. Study of Corm 

27. Amwoiiault Measure of 1 poond. 
Ttme TaUe for Bakiag Batter? and 

Doa^ii& 
2^. Enies for Cake Makin?. 

29. ComparatiTe Cost of Foods. iiL2r%.iL- 

ents Vi^ in Batters aad Dmi^fe. 

30. Stodv of Yeast and Its AetioiL 



19. Bales for CookEagFotatMS. 

2Ql BaksfOT^Cookra^Coeals. 

21. Bales for Cooka^Bite^ 

22. Bales for IbkaigCaiidy. 

23. Bales for Pt epar ai g MacagowL 

24. Boles for Ifako^ Griddle Cakes. ] 



2^. MnSns. Drop Batto^. 

26. Com Cake, Drop Batter. 

27. Gai^isbread. Drop Batto:. 



Cake& Drop Batter. 



SoftDoogiL 
Short-Cake Ifixtares. 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lessons A. Theory. 

31. General Directions for Making Bread 

That Requires No Kneading. 

32. Study of Sandwiches. 

33. Test Questions. 



Lessons B. Practice. 

31. Bread-Making. 

32. Sandwiches. 

33. Practice Test. Simple Breakfast. 



Third Semester. 



34. Acid and Salt Supplying Foods. 

35. Proteids, Tissue Builders, Study of — 

Eggs. 

36. Proteids, Tissue Builders, Study of — 

Eggs — Continued. 

37. Proteids, Tissue Builders, Study of — 

Milk. 

38. Proteids, Tissue Builders, Study of — 

Cheese. 

39. Freezing — General Directions. 

40. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Meat. 

41. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Methods of 

Cooking Meat. 

42. Proteids, Tissue Builders— Methods of 

Cooking Meat. 
4?.. Drawing of Beef Creature. 

44. Beef. 

45. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Poultry. 

46. Frying — General Directions. 

47. Table Showing Composition of Meat. 

Time Table for Boiling Meat and 
Fish. 

48. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Fish. 

49. Table 1. Composition of Fish, Mol- 

lusks, Crustaceans, etc. 

50. Table 1. Composition of Fish, Mol- 

lusks, etc. — Continued. 

51. Study of Shell Fish. 

52. Proteid Sparers — Gelatine. A Proteid 

Sparer. 

53. Blank Page.^ 

54. Test Questions. 



Canned Fruits. 
Cooked Eggs. 



36. Baked Custards. 

37. Pasteurized Milk. 

38. Cheese Dishes. 

39. Frozen Milk and Cream Mixtures, Ice 

Cream. 

40. Meat Loaf Mixtures. 

41. General Directions for Stewing. 



Broiling. 



43. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Methods of 

Cooking Meat. 

44. Proteids, Tissue Builders — Methods of 

Cooking Meat — Roasting. 

45. Roast Chicken. 

46. Frying — Croquettes. 

47. Meat Sauces — General Directions. 



48. Different Ways of Preparing Fish. 

49. Fish Sauces. 

50. Different Ways of Preparing Fish. 

Fish Balls — Salmon Loaf. 

51. Oysters. 

52. Gelatine Desserts. 

53. Gelatine Desserts — Continued. 

54. Practice Test — Simple Dinner. 







Fourth 


Semester. 


55. 


Heat Producers— Fats and Oils, 




55. ; 


56. 


Digestion. 




56. ; 


57. 


Steaming — General Directions. 




57. 1 


58. 


Bread and Break-Making 




58. : 


59. 


Yeast and Its Action. 




59. : 


60. 


Cake Fillings and Frostings. 




60. ] 


61. 


Average Composition of American 
Food Products. 


61. ( 



62. Average Composition of American 

Food Products. 

63. Pastry — General Directions. 



Bacon — Pan Broiled. 

Fat as a Frying Medium — Veal Cutlets. 

Steamed Mixtures. 

Rolls. 

Bread-Making. 

Layer Cakes. 

61. Cakes Without Butter— Sponge Cake- 
Angel Food. 

62. Cookies — Dropped and Rolled Cookies. 



Pie. 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lessons A. Theory. 

64. Average Composition of American 

Food Products— Comparative Cost of 
Total Nutrients and Energy in 
Fruits. 

65. Jelly-Making. 

66. Acid and Salt Supplying Foods. 

67. Study of Beverages. 

68. General Rules Applied to Invalid 

Cookery. 

69. Dietary Studies. 

70. Average Composition of American 

Food Products. 

71. Test Questions. 

72. Menus — Continued. 



Lessons B. Practice. 

64. Frozen Fruit Juice Mixtures. 



65. Cranberry Sauce and Cranberry Jelly. 

66. Salads. 

67. Beverages. 

68. Invalid Cookery — -Liquids — Semi-solids 

69. Menu IX. Menu X. 

70. Menu XL 

71. Company Luncheon Menus. 

72. Menus — Continued. 



FOREWORD 



The aim of this book is to present the basic prin- 
ciples of Domestic Science in a course of related 
lessons. 

Each lesson includes a page presenting the 
theory and a page outlining the practice, illustrat- 
ing the principle involved. In other words, the les- 
sons in theory give the "what" and the "why"; the 
lessons in practice the "how." 

The course consists of seventy-two illustrated 
lessons, some of which are divided into two or three 
parts to be given as a separate lesson. 

The individual recipes, planned specifically for 
school use, may be used to advantage wherever an 
individual portion may be desired, or for Invalid 
Cookery. 



[Page 8] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson lA] 



UNIFORM 




Each girl should be provided with a siiujile uniform for tliis work, as shown in accom- 
panying illustration. The uniform consists of a cap, apron and sleevelets. A holder, hand- 
towel and a bag in which to carrv the uniform back and forth to school is also needed. 



This uniform may be made of India lawn, cambric or muslin. It requires about 4% 
yards of material for a medium sized girl and 5 yards for a larger girl. The cap should be 
made to fit the head closely, that all stray hairs may be drawn under the cap. The apron 
should be made as long as the dress with a bib (see illustration). The sleevelets should come 
up above the elbow. A rubber band may be placed here and at the wrist, or. it may be 
fijiiahed with a band at the wrist. 



r Lesson IB] SANITARY HOUSEKEEPING [Page 9] 



THE CLEAN HOUSE IS THE HEALTHFUL HOUSE 

We all know that a person does not appear well with soiled hands and face or soiled 
clothing, but appearance is not the only reason for keeping clean, as there are a great many 
kinds of dirt which cause serious sickness and even death. Most of the cases of sickness in 
our country today are caused by tiny living organisms which are called GERMS c 
MICROBES, or micro-organisms. They may be classed as bacteria, yeasts and molds 

These GERMS are so small that they cannot be seen with the naked eye, yet they are 
always floating about in the air, in the water, in our food, on our clothing and on the bodies 
of both men and animals. Many of these live even in our mouths and under our nails. 

As GERMS grow rapidly in unclean places, it is necessary to keep ourselves and our 
surroundings perfectly clean in order to destroy them. Anything which destroys these tiny 
living organisms is called a disinfectant. Men have prepared many means of destroying 
harmful GERMS, but fresh air, sunlight and cleanliness, called Natural Disinfectants, are 
the most valuable of all. 

As we go on with thr?e lessons we will learn more about GERMS. Perhaps you have 
already learned something about them in your Physiology lessons. 



NECESSITY FOR CLEANLINESS 

One of the most important things for us to learn in this work is that we must be 
clean. 

There are two reasons why we should keep everything neat and clean: One, on account 
of looks, and the other on account of health. 



CLEANLINESS OF PERSON 

Since it is so necessary to keep clean at all times, tho^:e who are to work in the kitchen 
preparing foods should be especially careful to keep themselves clean, and to handle in a 
perfectly clean way all the food which they prepare. 

It is best to wear a plain, cotton dress, short enough to clear the floor, when cooking or 
doing other housework. The hair should be so carefully arranged that there is no danger of 
any falling into the food. When sweeping, it should be protected from the dust by covering 
it with a cap or kerchief. 

Before preparing any food, the hands should be washed thoroughly with soap and water; 
the nails cleaned with a brush arid a wooden toothpick, or a regular nail cleaner. The hands 
should always be washed after touching the hair, pocket handkerchief or anything else 
unclean. No rings, bracelets, etc., should be worn in the kitchen. 

It is a good plan to have a hand towel buttoned on the apron band while at work in the 
kitchen. The dishes must never be wiped on the same towel which is being used to wipe 
the hands or face. A tasting spoon should be near at hand, so that a small portion of the 
food may be put into it from the mixing spoon for tasting purposes. Never dip a tasting 
spoon into a dish of food which is to be served. 



[Page 10] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 2A1 

SANITARY HOUSEKEEPING 

CLEANLINESS OF ROOM 

SWEEPING 



Object. The object of sweeping is the removal of loose dirt, raising as little dust as 
possible. 

Dirt is anything unclean. Example: Visible Dirt, (dust, grease, etc.). 

As commonly used, the word includes remnants of anything left where they do not belong, 
such as sand, bits of paper, animal or vegetable refuse, etc. 

Mingled with the dust and dirt is the Invisible live dust tiiat is composed of millions 
of germs,^called bacteria, yeasts, moulds, etc., — some of them known to cause diseases, such 
as diphtheria, lock-jaw, consumption, typhoid, grippe, etc. 

Implements for sweeping. A long handled soft brush is best for smooth floors, ex. — oiled 
or waxed floors. The brush or broom covered with a bag made of soft cloth, like Canton 
flannel or cheese cloth, may be used for painted or polished floors. If the cloth is dampened 
or oiled it will hold the dust better. A common broom may be used for sweeping ordinary 
floors. A small brush should be used to clean out the corners. A woolen cloth wrung out of 
warm water, to which 1 tbsp. ammonia to 1 gallon of water has been added will remove dust 
from carpets and brighten them wonderfully. A carpet sweeper which is a biush with broom 
action enclosed in a box, is good for carpets. The box serves as a dust pan. It is a sanitary 
dirt remover. 

Method. Begin at one corner and sweep along the sides of the room with the grain of 
the wood. Sweep with short strokes, keeping the brcxmi close to the floor. Always sweep 
from the sides of the room toward the center, unless there is some good reason for doing 
otherwise. 

Collecting. By collecting dust into small piles rather than into one large one less dust 
will rise. If the dust pan is covered witli a damp paper, so arranged that it will stand a 
little higher at the back of the dust pan, less dust will rise, as damp surfaces catch dust. 

Disposal Burn the sweepings. 

Caution. Before beginning to sweep, see that no food is left uncovered in the room. 

Care of Sweeping Utensils. The broom should be changed during sweeping and used on 
alternate sides, as well as on opposite corners. When not in use it should be hung up; the 
lint and threads or hairs cleaned off every time after using. 

Brooms should be washed in hot soapy water once a week to keep them soft and pliable, 
and to make them last longer. 

DO NOT WET the tacks or wires on the broom as they will rust and break. 

BRUSHES INLAY BE WASHED also. Use cold water instead of hot water, on account of 
the glue with which brushes are fastened. 

Much labor can be saved bv habits of neatness. 



[Lesson 2B] DUSTING [Page 11] 



DUSTING 

Object. The object of dusting is the removal of dust from the house. Dusting sliould not 
be done immediately after sweeping — about 2 hours should elapse. 

What to Use. USE A SOFT COTTON CLOTH. If new cioth is used it should be 
hemmed or overcast, as it ravels easily and the ravelings might catch and break small articles. 
Old cloth does not ravel so easily. Cheese cloth makes good dusters. It is inexpensive and 
dries quickly. Make dusters about % yds. square, — for many purposes smaller ones are bet- 
ter. Have several dusters. Do not use a feather duster, as it only scatters the dust. 

Order. 1. Wood-work. 2. Furniture. .3. Movable articles. 
Dust the higher places first, then the lower ones. 

Method, SPREAD THE CLOTH and gather the dust into it, folding it in as you work. 
Where there are no articles to be injured by moisture, the cloth should be dampened or oiled, 
as it will hold the dust plants. 

Care of Dust Cloths. Dust cloths should be washed thoroly each time after using. Wash 
the cloths in warm soapy water, scald in clean soapy water, rinse in clear water. Wring as 
dry as possible and hang them to dry with the ends pulled evenly. Dry out of doors in the 
sun if possible. Why? Why scald? When dry, fold and put them in the drawer where they 
belong. Have a place for everything and everj'thing in its place. 

Care of Dish Cloths and Towels. — Dish cloths and towels should be washed, rinsed and 
dried each time after using; scalded often and dried out of doors when possible. A damp dish 
cloth breeds disease. 

Badly Soiled Cloths, Towels, etc., should be soaked to cleanse them thoroly. Wet the 
soiled portions, rub them with soap, roll up tightly, place in a pail or pan, cover with soapy 
water, and let stand one hour or more. Wash in this water, then scald in clean soapy water, 
and rinse in clear water. Wash and hang up the cloths with the ends pulled evenly together. 
Try soaking soiled cloths in cold water to which the juice of a lemon has been added. Heat 
slowly to boiling point. Proceed according to above directions. 

NOTES: 



[Page 12] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 3A] 

WASHING DISHES. CARE OF DISHES 

Directions for Dish Washing. 
Preparation. 

1. Collect and scrape all dishes to be washed, 

2. Pile all articles of each kind together, — plates by themselves, the largest at the bottom ; 

silver articles together, and steel knives and forks by themselves, etc. 

3. Make ready tvi^o pans, — fill one half full of hot soapy water for washing, and the 

other half full with clear hot water for rinsing. 
NOTE. — Work is made much easier if saucepans and other cooking dishes are washed as 
soon as used. If soaking is necessary, fill with cold water as soon as emptied. 

Soaking Dishes. 

COLD water should be used for dishes which have been used for milk, eggs and starchy 

foods. 
HOT water should be used for dishes used for sugary substances, and for sticky, gummy 

substances, like gelatine. 
CREASY DISHES of all kinds, including knives, are more easily cleaned if first wiped 

with soft paper. This paper may be used for kindling. 



Glassware. 2. Silver. 3. Cups and sauceis. 4. Plates. ."). Platters, vegetable dishes, 
6. Cooking utensils (if not washed first). 



Method. 

1. W'asii dishes in hot soapy water. Cut glass is Uable to crack in hot or cold water, so 
warm should be used. 2. Rinse in clear hot water. 3. Drain. 4. Wipe dry with 
clean tea towels. In putting dishes away, hang up what can be hung, and place 
other dishes upside down to keep out dust. 

General Instructions. 

In putting glasses into hot water, they should be dipped in edgewise, so that both the 
outside and inside are heated together. This will prevent their cracking. 

The handles of knives, if wood, bone, ivory or pearl, should not be put into the water, as 
they are liable to split. They should be wiped with a wet, and then with a dry cloth. 

A soft, thin dish cloth is better for glass and silver, but coarser, thicker material may be 
used for other dishes. Wash every part, outside and inside, of every dish, with the 
cloth. If the dish is too small to allow the hand to go in, as in some pitchers, a 
mop may be used. 

NOTE. — Greasy dish cloths and towels furnish a most favorable soil for germ growth. 
A greasy dish cloth hung up in a dark place is dangerous. No damp article should be stored 
in the dark. Dish cloths and towels should be scalded and dried in the sun, 

NOTES: 



Lesson 3B1 



MEASURING 



[Page 13] 



Correct Measurements are absolutely necessary to insure successful results in cooking. 

FLOUR, MEAL, POWDERED and CONFECTIONERS' SUGAR and SODA should be 
sifted before measuring. MUSTARD and BAKING POWDER often settle in the cans, there- 
fore should be stirred to lighten. SALT lumps easily and the lumps should be broken before 
measuring. These should be put into the measure with a scoop or spoon and not packed hard. 
See Fig. 1, 

ALL MATERIALS ARE TO BE MEASURED LEVEL, the levehng to be done with a 
case-knife. See Fig. 2. 

To measure BUTTER, LARD, etc., pack solidly into the cup or spoon, and make level 
with a knife. If the fat is very hard, cut it into small pieces before measurino'. 

To measure a spoonful of any DRY SUBSTANCE, dip the spoon into the substance, fill it, 

it, and level it with a knife. 

For HALF a spoonful divide lengthwise. See Fig. 3. 

For a QUARTER of a spoonful divide the half crosswise. See Fig. 4. 

For an EIGHTH spoonful divide the quarter diagonally. See Fig. 5. 

Less than ONE-EIGHTH of a teaspoonful is considered a few grains. 

A CUPFUL of liquid is all the cup can hold. 

A TEA or TABLESPOONFUL of liquid is all tlie spoon can hold. 



lift 



ABBREVIATIONS. 

tsp teaspoonful 

tbsp tablespoonf ul 

c cupful 

pt pint 

qt quart 

oz ounce 

lb pound 

min minutes 

h hour 



EQUIVALENTS. 

3 tsp equal 1 tbsp. 

*4 tbsp equal % c. 

2 c equal 1 pt. 

2 pts equal 1 qt. 

4 qts equal 1 gallon 

4 c (about) of flour equal 1 lb. 

2 c. of sugar equal 1 lb. 

*16 tbsp. of dry ingredients equal 1 c. 
12 tbsp. of liquid " equal 1 c. 






FIGURE 1. 



FIGURE 2. 



FIGURE 5. 



Next to measuring comes CARE IN COMBINING. 

THREE WAYS are considered:— Stirring, Beating, Cutting and Folding. 

To Stir.— Mix by using circular motion; widening the circles until all is mixed. 

To Beat. — Turn ingredients over and over, continually bringing the under part to the 
surface. 

To Cut and Fold.— Combine one ingredient with another ingredient or mixture by two 
motions with a spoon, a repeated vertical downward motion, known as CUTTING, and a turn- 
ing over and over of mixture, allowing bowl of spoon each time to come in contact with bot- 
tom of dish, called FOLDING. 

BY STIRRING, ingredients are mixed. 

BY BEATING, a large amount of air is enclosed. 

BY CUTTING AND FOLDING, air already introduced is prevented from escaping. 



[Page 14] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 4A] 



WATER 

DEFINITION. — Water is an odorless, colorless, tasteless, transparent liquid. 

COMPOSITION. — Pure water is composed of two parts hydrogen, and one part oxygen. — Ho 0. 

SOURCES.— (1) Lake. (2) Rain. (3) Spring. (4) Well. (5) River. 

USE. — Water is necessary to life and health. It constitutes about three-fourths of the weight 
of the human body. 

USES IN THE BODY.— (1) To (luench thirs^t. (2) To regulate tenii)eratnre. (3) To aid 
digestion. (4) To thin blood. 15) To assist circulation. (6) To stimulate nervous sys- 
tem. (7) For medicinal purposes. (8) To help carry off waste matter. 

USES WITHOUT THE BODY.— (1) For cooking purposes. (2) For cleaning purposes. 

TEMPERATURES.— Boiling, 212 deg. F. Simmering. 185 deg. F. Hot, 100 deg. F. plus 
Warm, 92 deg.-lOO deg. F. Tepid, 65 deg.-92 deg. F. Cold, ,32 deg.-65 deg. F. Freez- 
ing, 32 deg. F. 

IMPURE WATER IS DANGEROUS, and like dust contains germs. 

BOILING THE WATER ten minutes will kill the germs. The water is then sterilized. T(. 
sterilize means to free from germs. To restore the flavor of boiled water re-introduc«' 
air by pouring the water several times from one pitcher to another. Freezing does not 
kill the germs, — only checks the growth. 

WATER STANDING in lead pipes over night, or any length of time, may take up some of 
the lead and therefore it should be drawn off before any water is taken for use. 

NEVER USE the water drawn off the hot water faucet for cooking or drinking purposes. 

HOT WATER is more likely to take up the particles of lead than cold water. 

THE BODY needs about two (|uarts of cold water daily, and about half of that is supplied in 
the food. 

ALL FOOD SUBSTANCES contain more or less water, no matter how dry they may appear. 

MANY FRUITS AND VEGETABLES contain a large amount of water, with just enough solid 
matter to give them form. Today we are going to use water as a cooking medium. 

NOTE. — Heat expands, cold contracts water; exception: water expands just before freezing 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 4B] 



VEHETARLES 



[Page 15] 




Boiled Cauliflower and Carrots 
VEGETABLES 

VEGETABLES are chiefly valuable for the pure water and mineral matter they con- 
tain, which act as a tonic to the system. 

They also contain cellulose or wood-fibre, which stimulates the digestive organs to carry 
on their work. The amount of cellulose or waste in vegetable foods keeps up the motion of 
the intestines. The cellulose is useful in stimulating the intestines so that their contents are 
kept constantly moving. Some vegetables contain starch, sugar and other substances. Peas, 
beans, and lentils, are tissue builders and may be used in place of meat, eggs. etc. Lettuce 
and celery have a juice that is soothing to the nerves. Celery if taken in large enough quan- 
tities is considered a cure for rheumatism. Spinach contains iron, etc. Therefore it is well 
to eat many different kinds of vegetables in order to supplj' the body witli the different kinds 
of mineral matter and acids they contain. 

General Rules for Cooking Vegetables. 

(1) Wash thoroly. (2) Pare, peel or scrape, if skins must be removed. (3) Soak in cold 
water until ready to cook — (to keep crisp or to freshen if wilted or to prevent discoloration). 
(4) Cook in freshly boiling, salted water until tender. (5) Drain off the water; shake over 
fire; serve hot with SEASONINGS. — To 1 c. cooked vegetables, add 2 tbsp. butter, M; tsp. salt, 
and 1-16 tsp. pepper, or with a White Sauce. — See Lesson 7. Vegetables may be reheated 
over hot water in a double boiler. 

Notes. 

Allow 1 tsp. salt to 1 (jt. water. 

Use enough boiling water to cover vegetables. 

Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, except in the case of delicate green 
vegetables, as peas, spinach, etc., when it should not be added until the vegetables are nearly 
done. 

To preserve the color of green vegtables cook uncovered. 

Cabbage, onions and turnips should be cooked uncovered in a large quantity of water; by 
changing the water once or twice during the cooking, much of the strong odor and flavor may 
be lost. If dried bread be tied in a cheese cloth and placed on top of vegetables it partially 
absorbs the odor. 

Water in which vegetables have been cooked is called Veg. Stock, and may be used as a 
basis for soups, sauces, etc. 

Peel onions under cold water to avoid irritating the eyes. Wash all the utensils in cold 
water without soap to remove onion odor. 

Winter vegetables should be kept in a cool, dark, dry place. 

Fresh vegetables may be washed and kept on ice in a clean piece of ch&esecloth. Be 
sure that the cloth is washed and scalded frequently. 



Time Table for Cooking Vegetables in Water. 



Potatoes 25-30 m. 

Carrots 35-45 m. 

Turnips 45 m. 

Beets (voung) 45 m. 

Beets (old) 3-4 hrs. 

Tomatoes 1-3 hrs. 



Onions 46-60 m. 

Cabbage 45-60 m. 

Cauliflower 20-30 m. 

Asparagus 20-40 m. 

Spinach 30-45 m. 

Celerv 20-30 m. 



Parsnips 30-45 m. 

Green Peas 30-45 m. 

String Beans 1-3 hrs. 

Lima Beans . . 1 hr. or more 

Green Corn 12-20 m. 

Rice 20-45 m. 



[Page 16] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 5A] 

WATER AS A STERILIZING MEDIUM 
FOOD PRESERVATION 

To PRESERVE means to save from decay by the use of some preservative agent. 

Certain Bacteria cause the decay of foods. 

Food is preserved when it is subjected to such treatment as will kill the germs or check 
their growth and make them inactive. 

As we know that moderate heat, food and moisture are favorable conditions for their 
growth, opposite conditions will hinder their growth, — that is, to keep food cold, — dry it, — or 
cook it. 

The methods usually used are : — 

1. Cold Storage. — Freezing checks the growth of bacteria as long as they are in a 
frozen condition. MEAT and FISH may be kept indefinitely while frozen. They should not 
be allowed to thaw out until shortly before using, as they are more susceptible to the action 
of bacteria, and spoil more quickly than similar foods which have not been frozen. EGGS 
and FRUIT may be kept several months by cold storage, in dry air just above the freezing 
point. VEGETABLES are kept in cold storage. MILK is sent frozen in large quantities, etc. 

2. Drying. — Bacteria require moisture, so food is dried in order to prevent their growth. 
Dried fruits contain more water than dried meats or fish, but this small amount remains safe 
by the antiseptic properties of the acids in the fruits, and are also preserved by the natural 
sugar in fruits. 

3. Salting. — Salt has a tendency to absorb moisture from the bacteria, so they cannot 
thrive in food that is corned or salted. Salt does not kill bacteria but prevents their 
growth. 

4. Preserving with Sugar. — Sugar, like salt, has a tendency to absorb moisture from tht 
bacteria, therefore they cannot grow in a thick syrup, though molds may grow on top. — 
Example: jams, marmalades, jellies, etc. 

5. Smoking. — Meats and fish are usually salted, then smoked, (the products of combus- 
tion are antiseptic). These antiseptics are germ killers, but do not penetrate the flesh, 
remaimng on the outside, so disease germs on the inside are not killed. It is therefore 
unsafe to eat uncooked meat in any form. 

6. Pickling. — Few kinds of bacteria can grow in acids, so vinegar is used for pickling. 

7. Chemical Treatment. — Many of the antiseptics used on food, called "preservatives," 
are harmful. These are often used in canning factories, and by dealers in milk, meat, and 
other foods. 

8. Canning. — Canning is preserving sterilized food in sterilized, air-tight jars. The 
temperature of boiling water, sometimes a lower temperature, kills the bacteria. Canning is 
considered the best method of preserving food. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 5B] CANNING [Page 17] 

CANNED VEGETABLES 




DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING VEGETABLES. 

Canning should be dona in a well-kept room — one as free as possible from dust and dirt. 

Select only sound and fresh vegetables. 

Examine jars by filling them half full with water, adjust rubbiTS. screw on tops, turn 
upside down and see if they are air-tight. 

How to sterilize jars, etc. Sterilize the jars and covers by putting them edgewise into 
a pan containing cold water. Heat slowly to boiling point and let boil ten minutes. Keep 
the jars and covers in the hot water till ready for use. 

Dip rubber bands fnto hot water, but do not injuie them by boiling. New rubbers should 
ue used each season. 

Prepare the vegetables. Wash, pare or peel, and cut in pieces, if necessary. 

Fill the jars with the vegetables, cover to overflowing with water that has been boiled, 
salted and cooled. 

Place the sterilized rubbers on and adjust covers, but do not screw them down--the 
steam must have an outlet. 

Place the jars on a rest, or on a folded cloth, or on several layers of paper in a large 
kettly or wash boiler. Add enough cold water to reach the neck of jars. Cover the kettle; 
heat gradually to boiling point, and boil according to time-table. 

Take jars out, screw down the covers securely. Place jars upside down. 

JSTOTE. — If full jars are desired, immediately after steaming the covers may be taken off 
and the jars filled to overflowing with boiling salted water. Then readjust covers and screw 
down securely. 

TIME TABLE. 

KIND METHOD TIME 

TOMATOES Sterilization or Canning One hour 

STRING BEANS " " Three hours 

PEAS '• " Three to four hours 

CORN " " Four to five hours 

ASPARAGUS '• •• Three hours May be 

boiled five minutes before putting in cans. 



[Page 18] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 6A] 

WATER AS A CLEANING AGENT 

Water is the most important of all cleaning agents. It dissolves more substances than 
any other hquid. 

Water for domestic use is either hard or soft, according to the amounts of soluble salts 
which it contains. These are usually compounds of lime or magnesia. Water not naturally 
soft should be softened by boiling or the addition of a softening agent, ex. — washing soda, 
borax, ammonia, potash or soda lye. 

If washing soda is used do not add more than 2 ounces to a tub of water. 

Too much should not be used, as it injures the hands and any fabric which may bf 
washed in it. 

If borax is used, not more than 14 pound to a tub of water should be used. 

Ammonia is considered one of the best agents for softening water. 

CARE OF REFRIGERATOR, ETC. 

The Refrigerator should be kept scrupulously clean in every part. 

Anything spilled should be wiped up at once. The refrigerator should be examined 
daily so that no food is left to spoil and cause bad odors. All waste and overflow pipes 
become foul with grease, dust, lint, etc., if not well cared for, and often fill the whole house 
with contaminated air, thereby endangering health. 

>J"o hot food should be put into the refrigerator. 

No food with strong odor should be put into the refrigerator, unless necessary, and then 
it should be tightly covered. 

Milk and butter absorb odors quickly, and therefore should be kept tightly covered. 

Once a week, at least, every part of the refrigerator should be washed with borax, soda, 
or ammonia water, using a small mop or whisk broom and a skewer. 

To clean the pipe thoroly, use a cloth over a wire. Wipe as dry as possible, and leave 
refrigerator open to dry thoroly. 

If possible, dry all movable parts in tlie sun or near the fire. 

Care of the Sink. — -The SINK should be kept scrupulously clean at all times. 

Neglect causes bad odors, attracts roaches, etc., and often causes disease. 

It is advisable to have a fine strainer over the regular sink strainer to catch crumbs or 
anything that might clog the pipe. After pouring soiled water into the pipe, pour clean 
water into it so that clean water may be left in the trap. Wash all parts of the sink with 
soapsuds or 1 tbsp. sal-soda added to the water (sal-soda prpepared by using % cupful of 
soda to lA gallon of water), or V^ can of Babbit's potash dissolved in 1 qt. of water. Should 
sink pipe become clogged, pour into waste pipe i^ lb. copperas dissolved in 2 qts. boiling 
water. Repeat if necessary. 

Scrubbing Boards and Tables. — Remove all crumbs, etc., and wipe off the table with a 
wet cloth. Use no more water than necessary. Dip a brush into water, then into Dutch 
Cleanser, or rub sapolio on it. Scrub with the grain of the wood. Thoroly rinse off the 
suds. Rinse the cloth, wring it thoroly, and wipe the table or board as dry as possible. Let 
no dirt collect in seams or cracks; remove with a skewer. 

Grease spots may be removed by covering them with borax or ammonia, allowing it to 
stand a few hours before scrubbing with sand soap. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 6B] 



DIFFERENT WAYS OF PREPARING VEGETABLES 



[Page 19] 



PEAS AND CARROTS. 

1 c. cubed carrots 2 level tbsp. butter 1-16 tsp. pepper 

1 c. cooked green peas % level tsp. salt 

Wash, scrape and cut young carrots in cubes. Cook in boiling salted water until soft. 
Drain, add the peas and season with butter, salt and pepper. 

The carrots may be cut into carrot cups, by cutting thick slices and scooping out the 
inside before cooking. Serve the peas in the cups. 



SUCCOTASH. 

1 c. sweet corn 1 or 2 tbsp. butter 

1 c. cooked shelled beans % tsp. salt. 

Mix corn and beans. Heat. Season. Serve hot. 
One cup hot milk may be added. 



i/s tsp. pepper 




CORN OYSTERS. 

1 c. sweet corn (drained) V^ c. flour or VaC. breadcrumbs 1-16 tsp. pepper 

1 well-beaten egg % tsp. salt, or more, to taste 

Mix in order given. Shape to imitate oysters. Cook on a well-greased griddle. Brown 
on one side; turn and brown on the other. This mixture may be baked. The yolk and 
white should then be beaten separately. Green pepper may be added to it. 



SPANISH FRITTERS. 

1 c. corn % c. flour 2 eggs beaten separately 

V4, c. milk Yz tsp. baking powder 1 Spanish pepper 

Mix in order given, folding in the beaten whites. Fry spoonfuls in deep fat. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

6 medium-sized tomatoes 2 tbsp. melted butter 1-16 tsp. pepper 

1 c. cracker or soft bread crumbs 1 tsp. salt 

Wash tomatoes. Cut thin slice from stem end of each. Take out seeds and pulp and 
drain ofl' most of the liquid. Mix the crumbs, butter and the seasonings; add to the tomato 
pulp. Add more seasonings if necessary. Sprinkle inside of tomato cup with salt and pepper. 
Refill the tomatoes with the mixture; replace tops. Place in a buttered pan, sprinkle with 
buttered crumbs and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Chopped meat, oysters, green peppers, sweet corn or celery may be added to the stuffing. 



[Page 20] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 7A] 

WATER AS A CLEANING AGENT— Continued 
CARE OF UTENSILS 

TINWARE. — Wash tinware in hot, soapy water. Remove grease and food waste from 
all seams with a wooden tooth pick or skewer or a stiff brush. If discolored, boil out in 
water containing washing soda. Polish with whiting or tripoli. 

IRONWARE. — ^Wash ironware in hot, soapy water. Use a wire dish cloth to remove 
food that sticks or is burnt on. Pumice stone or sapolio may be used in removing rough 
spots. After washing and wiping, drj' thoroly by placing kettles on the back of the range 
or in the sun before putting aAvay. Before using a new iron kettle grease inside and outside 
and let stand two days; then wash in hot water to which a lump of cooking soda lias been 
added. 

Iron and Steel not in use should be rubbed with an oily substance — oil, lard or vaseline. 

Rust, if not too deep, can be removed from iron or steel with kerosene. 

BRASS and COPPER. — Wash in hot soapy water. Rub with flannel dipped in lemon 
juice or vinegar. Then apply rotten-stone and oil and polish with a dry cloth. Or apply 
putz pomade (which is a mixture of whiting, oil and acid) with a woolen cloth, rub off 
with a second woolen cloth and polish with a third one. 

AGATE and ENAMEL WARE. — ^^Vash in hot soapy water. Clean seams with a wooden 
tooth pick or skewer. Rough places may be removed with a piece of pumice stone — ordinary 
stains with sapolio or Dutch Cleanser. A small scrubbing brush may be used in cleaning 
enamel ware. 

STEEL KNIVES and FORKS.— Dampen a cork, a piece of woolen cloth or cotton waste 
and dip into pulverized sapolio, Bristol brick, tripoli, or Dutch Cleanser. Rub the blades 
or tines briskly, first on one side, then on the other, until stains are removed. Dip quickly 
mto hot soapy water and dry at once. 

SILVERWARE.— Dampen a soft cloth, dip into fine whiting and apply to the silver. 
When the whiting has dried, rub it oflF with a soft cloth and polish with a chamois skin. Rub 
egg-stained spoons and other badly tarnished articles with salt before washing them in water 
to which ammonia has been added. The chlorine of the salt combines with the tarnish and 
forms a compound soluble in ammonia. 

STOVE or RANGE. — Wipe off with soft paper. Use sapolio to rub off rough spots. To 
keep it black and clean, wipe it daily with a few drops of kerosene on a cloth. 

ZINC. — Clean zinc with a little kerosene rubbed on with a flannel cloth, or with electro- 
silicon on a damp cloth. Polish with dry flannel. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 7B] 



USES FOR STALE BREAD 



[Page 21] 



DRY TOAST. — Cut stale bread into i/4-inch slices. Crust may or may not be taken off. 
Put slices in a wire toaster, lock toaster and place over a clear fire to dry, holding some dis- 
tance from coals. Turn and dry other side. Hold nearer and color to a golden brown. 
Toast, if piled compactly and allowed to stand, soon becomes moist. Toast may be buttered 
at table or before sending to table. Toasted bread is considered to be more easily dioested 
than fresh bread, because in toasting some of the starch is changed into dextrine (double 
sugar). Heat of 320 degrees F. is necessary to dextrinize starch. 

WATER TOAST.— Dip the toasted slices into boiling salted water ( Vi; tsp. salt to 1 e. 
boiling water), using a fork. Spread with butter and serve. 

MILK TOAST.— Dip the toasted slices into WHITE SAUCE. When soft remove to 
serving dish. I'our remaining sauce over all. For six slices of toast use one pint White Sauce. 
THIN WHITE SAUCE— 

1 pt. scalded milk 2y> tbsp. cold water 

21/4 tbsp. flour % tsp. salt 

Mix the cold water and flour until perfectly smooth. Add more cold water until thin 
enough to pour gradually into the hot milk. Cook, stirring all the time, until thickened. 
Boil 5 minutes. Add butter and salt. If cooked in a double boiler, cook 20 minutes in order 
to thoroughly cook the starch. 



2 tbsp. butter (if liked) 




EGGS A LA GOLDEN ROD. 
EGGS A LA GOLDEN ROD.— Prepare milk toast, adding the chopped whites of three 

hard cooked eggs to the sauce. Force the yolks thru a strainer and sprinkle over the top. 
(iarnisli with parsley. 

CREAM TOAST.— Dip the toasted slices into hot cieani. Put on serving dish and pour 
hot cieam ovor the slirc>. 



..i^^^^^^llmm, 





CROUSTADES 



CROUSTADES OF BREAD.— Cut stale bread into four-inch slices. Cut in diamonds, 
squares or circles. Remove centers by cutting with a knife, leaving baskets or cases. Fry in 
deep fat or brush over with melted butter and brown in oven. Fill with creamed fish, meat 
or vegetables. 

All pieces of bread should be saved and used. Keep pieces of stale bread by themselves 
in a jar or covered bowl. Large pieces are best for toast. Dry remnants of bread in a warm 
oven until they are crisp but not brown. Crush them with a rolling pin (kept for this 
purpose), sift and keep them in a jar. These are called dry bread crumbs, and are useful 
for crumbing, croquettes, cutlets, fish, meat, and scalloped dishes. 

Stale bread crumbs not dried are suitable for puddings, griddle cakes, omelets, and some 
scalloped dishes. 



I Page 22] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 8A] 

WATER AS A MEANS OF CARRYING AWAY WASTE MATTER 
WATER CARRIAGE SYSTEM— PLUMBING 

In cities where there is a generous supply of water, waste water, refuse, etc., are carried 
through pipes by means of water into a sewer. This is called a water-carriage system of 
drainage. It requires fixtures. See illustration. 



SINK. 

Construction. Enameled iron, porcelain or soapstone are the best materials for a sink 

The drainboards should be of the same material. Wood is not desirable, i 
absorbent and hard to keep clean. The drainboards should slope toward the 
sink should slope towards the waste pipe. 

Parts below the sink are: 



it is highly 
sink, and the 



WASTE PIPE, l^A to 2 inches in diameter. 
SOIL PIPE, 4 to 5 inches in diameter. 
DRAIN PIPE, 5 to 6 inches in diameter. 
SEWER PIPE. 



VP 




The whole system of pipes is called the sewerage of the house; the contents are called 
the sewage, and the main big pipe that receives all the sewage is called the sewer. 

The pipes carry off decomposable matter, and the results of decomposition are gases. In 
this case they are called sewer gases. 

The waste pipe has a bend in it called a TRAP. This is filled with the last water poured 
into the sink. The object of the bend is to retain a sufficient quantity of clean water to 
prevent gases from escaping up from the drain into the house. 

The water the bend contains is called a WATER SEAL. The clean water in the bend 
acts as a seal, preventing gases from returning. 

Good plumbing requires that the trap be near the fixture, that as little space as possible 
be left unprotected. 

Always have clean water in the trap, ^^^ly? 

If the sink is left unused for any length of time, the water seal may evaporate, and 
allow gases to escape into the house. 

A house left vacant should be thoroly aired before it is re-occupied. 

Keep pipes free from grease, soapy deposits, etc., by using hot water and soda or potash 
generously and frequently 

Every Irap should have a clean-out under the water seal. 

Draw a diagram of a sink, properly connected with the sewer. 

Sanitary cleanliness requires the cleanliness of the individual, of his possessions and his 
surroundings. 



[Lesson 8B] USES FOR STALE BREAD [Page 23] 




HOT MEAT SANDWICHES. 

RECIPES FOR LEFT-OVERS OF MEAT. 

Hot Chicken Sandwich. 

%-inch slices toast. 

Cooked chicken (slices or small pieces). 

WHITE SAUCE or thickened chicken stock. 

Heat the slices of chicken in the sauce. 

Season. Celery salt and chopped parsley may be added if liked. 

Put the meat and sauce between the slices of toast. 

Garnish with parsley and olives. 

Hot Roast Beef Sandwich. 

Slices of toast. 

Slices of cooked roast beef. Brown sauce. 

Put the meat and sauce between the slices of toast. 

Left-overs of MUTTON may be used in the same way, with tomato sauce or mint saitcc. 

Club House Sandwich. 

1. Toast. 

2. Lettuce leaves, 

3. Salad dressing. 

4. Slices of roast chicken. 

5. Pan broiled bacon. 

Arrange on slices of toast the lettuce leaves, salad dressing, chicken and bacon in 

layers. 
Repeat and cover with toast, having three layers of toast in all. 
Garnish with pickles, radishes, or parsley. 

Cheese Canapes. 

Toast circular pieces of bread. 

Sprinkle with a thick layer of grated cheese. 

Season with salt and cayenne. 

Place on a baking sheet and bake in oven until cheese is melted. 

Serve at once. 

Tomato Sauce. 

2 c. canned tomatoes Bit of bay leaf 14 tsp. salt 

1 slice onion 4 cloves " 2 tbsp flour 

6 pepper corns 
Boil first 6 ingredients 15 minutes; strain. 

Thicken by adding the flour which has been mixed with cold water to make a smooth, 
thin paste. Cook 5 minutes. 



[Page 24] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 9 A] 

AIR 

COMPOSITION. — Pure air is :i mixture, composed of two gases — (jxygeii (one part) ami 
Nitrogen (four parts) NjO. 

Air in Its Relation to Life. 

THIJEE THINCS ARE ESSENTIAL TO LIFE Air, Water ar.d Food. 

AIR is tlie most important, since we can live only a few minutes without it. 

Tlie air we breathe eanits oxygen into the lungs, keeping the blood red and pure. The 
blood conveys it to every part of the body, \\ here it unites with tlie carbon, producing heat 
by slow burning. It also jiroduces the energy wliieli nuikes the muscles nu)\e and the organs 
do their work. 

'I'he burnt air contains carbon dioxide and is exhaled. If you should sit in a very small 
room that had no frcsli air supply, how would you feel after tlie fresh air had become 
impure? Why? 

The air becoiues impure in a room by the carbon dioxide given oft' Jrom the lungs, from 
lamps, fj-om gas stoves, and in a small quantity from coal stoves (altlu. ..■ this case most of 
the carbon dioxide passes into the chimney). 

Anything which uses up the oxygen in a room, or which allows too much breathed air 
to remain in the room, makes the air impure. 

Decaying A-egetables and w.tter that have been allowed to stand for a length of time in 
cellars may fill the room with impure air and cause disease. 

Habitual breathing of impure air is the cause in many cases of ])neumonia and consump- 
tion. 

Pul)lic buildings are usually ventilated thru Hues which let -n the fresh out-of-door air 
and let cut the impure air. 

What is meant by \-EXTl LATK )N ? Why is GOOD ventilation necessary? 

REMEMEER: To frequently fill your liungs with fresh out-of-door air. To supply your 
rooms night and day with fresh air. 

NOTES: 



I Lesson 9B] 



USES FOR STALE BKEAD 



[Page 




GERMAN TOAST 

GERMAN TOAST. 
3 eggs 1/^ tsp. salt 2 tbsp. sugar. 1 c. milk 8 slices stale bread 

Beat eggs slightly, add salt, sugar and milk. Strain into a shallow dish. Soak bread in 
mixture until soft. Cook on a hot well-greased griddle; brown on one side; turn and brown 
on the other side. Serve for breakfast or luncheon. May be served as a dessert with Lemon 
Sauce. Slices of bread may be put in layers in a buttered baking dish, covered with the egg 
nii.\ture and baked in a moderate oven. This we call Bread Pudding. 

LEMON SAUCE 

1/. c. sugar IV2 c- Ijoiling water 

1 tbsp. corn starch 1 tsp. butter 

Mix sugar and corn starch; add boiling water gradually, 
5 minutes. Add butter and lemon juice. Ser\ e. 



IVL" tsp. lemon juice 
stirring until thickened. Boil 




PEACH CANAPES 
3 peaches 1 tb&p. corn starch diluted 6 slices German toast 

Vj c. sugar with 14 c. cold water (circular pieces) 

1 c. water Eind of 1 lemon 

Peel and cut the peaches in halves; cook them until tender in a syrup made of the 
sugar, water and lemon rind. Remove the peaches and thicken by cooking the syrup with 
the cornstarch mixed with the cold water. Serve the peaches on the toast, with the syrup. 

BAKED APPLES 

8 apples 1/4 tsp. einnamnn Rinl of 1 lemon 

14 c. sugar 14 tsp. nutmeg (if liked) 

Wash, wipe and core apples. Place them in a baking dish. Mix the seasonings; fill 
the cavities. Cover the bottom of the dish witli boiling water and bake in a hot oven until 
soft, basting with the syrup in the disli. Pears may lie baked in the same waj'. 

BAKED BANANAS 

6 bananas 2 tbsp. butter % c. sugar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Remove the skins and cut in halves lengtliwise. Put in a shallow granite pan or an old 
platter. Cream the butter and sugar and add lemon juice gradually. Spread bananas with 
half the mixture. Bake 20 minutes in a slow oven, basting during baking with the remaining 
mixture. 



[Page 26] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson lOA] 



AIR — Continued 



AIR IN ITS RELATION TO FIRE. 

Combustion or burning is the uniting of two or more elements to form a new compound. 
Combustion always produces heat, and if rapid, sometimes light. Flame is burning gas. 

In order to have a fire three things are necessary. 

1. Fuel, or something to burn. 

2. Heat, to make it hot enough to burn or reach its kindling point. 

3. Air, to keep it burning. The oxygen is the necessary part to keep the fire burning. 
Experiment with a lighted candle and a lamp chimney. 





Figure 1 



Figure 2 



Figure 3 



Fuel is any matter used to produce heat by burning, ex. — wood, coal, charcoal, etc. 

Fuels are composed mostly of carbons and hydrogen. When fuel is heated enough to 
burn, the oxygen of the air UNITES with the CARBON in the fuel forming a gas called 
CARBON DIOXIDE; it also imites with the hydrogen forming watery vapor; these pass 
through the chimney. After all the combustible matter is burned ashes remain. 

Fires are usually enclosed in iron boxes called Stoves, Ranges and Furnaces. 

These must have two openings, one to let in the air and one to let out the burnt air (gas, 
watery vapor and smoke). The slides that control these openings are called dampers. 

All stoves have a third damper called the check damper. (See Lesson llA.) 

In cooking stoves there is a fourth damper which allows the hot gases to flow around 
the oven, before reaching the chimney. 



NOTES: 



[Lesson lOB] 



SOUPS 



[Page 27] 



SOUPS 



1 can tomato Bit of bay leaf 

1 pt. water 4 cloves 

12 peppercorns 1 tsp. sugar 

Cook first seven ingredients 20 minutes 



TOMATO SOUP 

1 slice onion 
1 tsp. 



2 tbsp. butter 
salt 2 tbsp. flour 

Ys tsp. soda 

Strain. Add salt and soda. Mix the flour with 
an equal amount of water until smooth, add more water until thin enough to pour. Stir 
soup while adding gradually the flour mixture, called thickening, boil 5 minutes. Strain, add 
butter, serve with croutons. 




•^^^-^iiiijIli-iinfiV- 
TOMATO SOUP WITH CURLED CELERY 



Croutons 
CROUTONS. — Cut Va in. slices of buttered stale bread into cubes; brown in oven. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Vs c. carrot 1^2 e. potato 5 tbsp. butter, or a 1 tsp. salt 

Ya c. turnip % c. onion piece of suet % tsp. pepper 

Vo c. celery 2 qts. water % tbsp. parsley 

Cut vegetables into cubes. Cook the vegetables, except the potatoes and parsley, 10 
minutes, in the butter or suet. Add water and potatoes and cook one hour. Add parsley 
and seasonings. A soup bone may be added. 



PEA SOUP 



1 c. dried split peas Yi onion 2 tbsp. flour lYj tsp. salt 

3 qts. cold water 4 in. cube fat salt porkVs tsp. pepper 

Pick over peas and soak over night; drain, add cold water, pork and onion. Simmer 3 
or 4 hours, or until soft.- Rub through a sieve. Add the flour mixed with cold water to 
the soup; boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Add seasonings. 



BAKED BEAN SOUP 



3 c. cold baked beans 
3 pts. water 
2 slices lemon 



11/^ c. stewed and strained 2 tbsp. flour 

tomatoes Itbsp. Chili sauce .- 

2 tbsp. butter Salt. Pepper 

Put first four ingredients in saucepan; bring to boiling point and simmer 30 minutes. 
Rub through a sieve, add seasonings, thicken with the flour, add butter, and serve with crisp 
crackers. 

Celery stalks, celery salt, or the dried leaves of celery may be added. 



[Page 2S] 



[Lesson 11 A] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DO:\IESTIC SCIENCE 

STOVES 

Ovens are as individual as people, and stoves form habits of their own. 
A COOKING STOVE is a large iron box set on legs. 

A Cooking Stove has tte following parts: 

1. FIRE-EOX, to contain fuel. 

2. CRATE, which forms the Hoor of the fire-box. 

3. DAMPERS, (a I Creative. / To regulate draft. 

(b) Check. ( 

■ }•:) ^Z^"' iTo direct current of hot air. 

(u) Chimney. ) 

4. ASH-PAN, to receive ashes, cinders, and clinkers. 

.5. STOVE-PIPE, to carry off smoke lunburned carbon) and gaseous products of 

combustion. 
6. OVEN, FOR FOOD. 

Distinction between a stove and a range: 

A STOVE is movable, and usually has one oven and two doors. 

A RANGE may be either built into the wall (set), or stand out in the room (port- 
able). 
Locate the dampers and study their uses, as shown in tiie following illustrations. 




Direct or ^ 
Creative Damper 



V 



Damper Closed 



Damper Open 



I ( tnd View j I 



OlAGRAnOFRANQE WITH OvtN DAnPtR ClOSLD 



Indirect or* 
ChecK Dampe 



Chimney Damper 

closed 



Pipe 



,Oven Damper 




V 



] ', I Damper Open 

w 

l.J:.V----r-.----_ir: 



Damper Closed 



Side View 

DiAQRAnof Range with Ovln Dampcr Opln 



f 



EndVif.w 



1 



[Lesson llBl 



CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUPS (PUREE) 



[Page 29] 



A PUREE is made by adding the pulp of a cooked vegetable to milk or cream. The milk 
is thickened (white sauce) with flour or cornstarch in order to bind together the solid and 
liquid parts of the soup. 

LEFT OVERS of vegetables or vegetables too old to serve whole may be used in making 
the cream soup. By forcing the pulp through a strainer the hull and coarse fiber is removed. 
A cream soup makes a very nourishing dish. Why ? 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP 

3 potatoes (medium) 2 tbsp. flour Few grains Cayenne 

1 qt. milk iVo tsp. salt 1 tsp. chopped parsley 

2 slices onion \i tsp. celery salt 
2 tbsp. butter % tsp. pepper 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water until soft; rub through a strainer or potato ricer. 
Scald milk with onion, remove onion and add milk slowly to potatoes. Thicken by adding 
the flour which has been mixed with cold water -until smooth. Thin it out with a little more 
cold water and add to soup, stirring until thickened. Boil 5 minutes. Add butter and 
seasonings and serve with Imperial Sticks. 




Impsrial Sticks 
Imperial Sticks. — Cut buttered slices of bread into strips and brown in oven. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

3 c. milk 1/. can tomatoes 3 tbsp. butter 
1 slice onion 1 tsp. sugar 1 tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. flour % tsp. soda Vs tsp. pepper . 

Scald milk with onion, and thicken milk with flour diluted with cold water, stirring con- 
stantly until thickened. Cook tomatoes with sugar 15 minutes, add soda and rub through 
sieve. Combine mixtures and strain. Add butter, salt and pepper. Serve with 

Crackers and Cheese. — Arrange zephyrettes in pan; sprinkle with grated cheese and 
bake imtil cheese is melted. 



CREAM OF PEA SOUP 

1 can or 1 pt. peas 



CREAM OF CORN SOUP 
1 can or 1 pt. corn 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

3 c. celery 



1 tsp. sugar 1 pt. cold water 1 pt. boiling water 

1 pt. cold water 1 qt. milk 1 qt. milk 

1 qt. milk 1 slice onion 1 slice onion 

1 slice onion 2 tbsp. flour 4 tbsp. flour 

2 tbsp. flour 1 tsp. salt % tsp. salt 

1 tsp. salt Vs tsp. pepper Few grs. pepper 

Vs tsp. pepper 

Boil vegetables until soft in the water. Force vegetables through a potato ncer or :i 
coarse strainer. Add vegetable pulp, water and seasonings to the milk thickened with flour: 
2 to 4 tablespoonfuls cf butter may be added. 

NOTE. — The butter in the Potato Soup, etc., recipes may be omitted. If it is undesirablt 
to boil the milk, cook in a double boiler 20 minutes after thickening has been added. 



[Page 30] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE [Lesson 12A] 

HOW TO BUILD A FIRE 

LAYING THE FIRE 

1. Free the grate from ashes. Turn the grate back into place. Remove the covers. 

2. Cover the grate with twisted pieces of paper. 

3. On these lay sticks of soft wood cross-wise. 

4. Put two shovelfuls of coal on top of the wood. 

5. Cover the top of the range, open all the dampers except the oven and the check 



damper. 



STARTING THE FIRE 



6. Light the fire by applying a lighted match under the grate to the paper or shavings. 
(If the stove is to be blackened, do it now.) 

7. When the wood is all ablaze, add coal until the fire-box is level full. The fire-box 
should never be kept more than three-fourths full. 

S When the blue flame disappears, half close the creative damper. When the coal is 
burning well, close the creative damper almost entirely, and half close the chimney damper. 

HOW TO MANAGE A FIRE 

For a steady hot fire, rake out ashes with a poker. Fill the fire-box three-fourths full. 
Open the lower front creative damper and chimney dampers. Close oven and check dampers. 

When the lower part of the coal is red, and the top still black, close the dampers. 

Always have black coals on top. 

To heat the oven, *open the oven damper and half close the chimney damper. 

To check the fire slightly, half open the slide in the check damper. 

To check decidedly, open the check damper. 

To keep a fire over night, fill the fire-box with coal, close oven, lower front and chimney 
dampers, and open the check damper half way. 



*The oven damper, when properly turned, forces the heated air around the oven, before it 
escapes through the chimney. 

The dampers differ slightly in different ranges, but the purpose of each is the same. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 12B] 



SCALLOPED DISHES 



[Page 31] 



GENERAL RULES 

The crumbs used for scalloped dishes may be made from the inside of stale bread, 
rubbed or grated, or from dried bread which has been rolled. The crumbs must be seasoned 
and added to the melted butter. 

Place the moistened food material in two layers and the crumbs in three layers, using 
one-third of the buttered crumbs on the bottom of the baking dish, then half the food, then 
crumbs, food, and the remainder of the crumbs on top. 

All baking dishes must be buttered or greased. 

Melt butter in the mixing bowl over hot water, — add crumbs to the butter. 

Mix butter and crumbs with a fork. 

To 1 c. soft crumbs use 1 tbsp. butter, Vs tsp. salt. 

To 1 c. hard crumbs use 4 tbsp. butter, % tsp. salt. 

Few grs. pepper in dishes when pepper is used. 



3 c. stewed tomatoes 
6 cloves 
1 tsp. salt 



SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

14 tsp. pepper 
1/4 tsp. onion juice 
1 tsp. sugar 



2 c. soft crumbs 
1 c. cracker crumbs 
6 tbsp. butter 



Cook tomatoes with seasonings. Follow rules for scalloped dishes. 



SCALLOPED APPLES 



3 c. apples cut in eighths 

Vo c, sugar 

14 tsp. cinnamon 

y^ tsp. nutmeg 
Prepare according to rule and bake l^/o houi 
on each layer of apples; or, cook apples with the sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and 1 cup of 
water, until apples are soft. Add lemon juice and rind. Follow rule for scalloped dishes 
and bake until crumbs are brown. See paragraph II. 



14 c. water 

1/4 lemon, juice and rind 
2 c. soft bread crumbs 
2 tbsp. butter 
in a moderate oven, using half the water 




SCALLOPED EGGS 

4 hard cooked eggs IV2 c. buttered hard crumbs 

% c. or 1 c. cold chopped meat 1 pt. white sauce (Lesson 7B) 

Chop the eggs, and follow the rule, alternating the eggs and meat, or add chopped eggs 
and meat to the sauce. Follow rules for escalloped dishes. See paragraph II. 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 pt. oysters Vs c. melted butter 

Vs c. oyster liquor or milk 1 tsp. salt 

ly, c. cracker crumbs or stale bread crumbs Ys tsp. pepper 
Follow rules for scalloped dishes, using half of the liquor on each layer of oysters. Bake 
30 minutes in a hot oven. Never allow more than two layers of oysters for scalloped 
oysters. If three layers are used, the middle layer will be underdone, while the other two 
are properly cooked. 



[Page 32] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 13A] 



AIR IN ITS RELATION TO COOKERY 

In Lesson 3B we learned that by BEATING a mixture, a large amount of air is enclosed, 
and by CUTTING and FOLDING, the air already introduced is prevented from escaping. 

Air at 70 degrees F. expands to about double its volume, at the temperature of a hot 
oven. 

When a mixture is beaten thoroughly it is filled Avith air bubbles, and when this is 
cooked or baked in a hot oven, each air bubble becomes enlarged by the heat; the heat also 
dries the mixture and forms a wall around each expanded air bubble, firmly fixing it in jjlace. 

In egg mixtures, like omelets, tlie heat coagulates the albumen in the egg at a low 
temperature; this firmly fixes the bubbles in place, leaving a light and porous mixture. 

All egg mixtures should be cooked at a moderate temperature. Example: Sponge Cake, 
Angel's Food, etc. 

A batter containing a large amount of water and baked in a hot oven, puffs up by the 
steam produced. The steam is formed when the liquid within the mixture is sufficiently 
heated. Water in changing to steam is expanded more than 1.700 times, and consequently 
pufi's up the mixture. Example: Cream Pufi's. Pop-overs, etc. 

Review lessons up to date. 




Breaking an Egg 



H 




Slipping white into a plate 
and yolk into a bowl 




III 

Beating white, enclosing 



NOTES: 



[Lesson 13B] 



OMELETS 

PART I 



[Page 33] 



4 tbsp. hot water 



PLAIN OMELET 

4 eggs Few grains pepper 

% tsp. salt 1 tbsp. butter 

Separate eggs. Beat yolks until thick; add salt, pepper and hot water. Beat whites 
until stiff and dry, and fold them into the first mixture. Heat omelet pan and butter sides 
and bottom. Turn in mixture. Cook slowly, Wlien well puffed and delicately browned 
underneath, place on grate of oven to finish cooking on top. The omelet is cooked if it is firm 
to the touch when pressed with the finger. If it clings, it is not cooked. Fold and turn on a 
hot platter. Serve with li/^ cups thin white sauce (Lesson 7B). 

OMELET WITH MEAT AND VEGETABLES 

Cook plain omelet. Add cooked vegetables or meat to the white sauce or fold them into 
the omelet mixture. 

OYSTER OMELET 

Fold in oysters cut in halves to plain omelet mixture. Follow directions given in Plain 
Omelet recipe. 




PART II 



POP OVERS 

1 c. flour Ys c. milk V2 tsp. melted butter 

Yi tsp. salt 2 eggs 

Mix salt and flour; add one-half the milk, beat until smooth. Add remaining half of 
milk, well-beaten eggs and butter. Beat 2 minutes with Dover egg beater. Turn into hot 
buttered iron gem pans, and bake about 35 minutes in a hot oven. Canned peach halves may 
be dropped into mixture in pan just before baking. The mixture will cover the peach. 
Serve with peach sauce. 

Creamed meat or vegetables may be served in Pop-over cases. 



[Page 34] 



PAET ni. CREAM PUFFS 



[Lesson 14 A] 




CREAM PUFFS 



y^ c. butter 



1 c. boiling water 



1 c. flour 



4 eggs 

Put butter and water in saucepan and place over the fire. As soon as it begins to 
boil add flour, all at once, and stir briskly, until the mixture leaves the side of the pan. 
Remove from the fire, cool, add one unbeaten &g^, add another, beat; and so on, until the 
four have been added. Drop by spoonfuls onto a buttered pan about two inches apart. Bake 
in a moderate oven from 25 to 45 minutes, or until puff's are firm and crusty to the touch. 
Cool, With a sharp knife make a cut and fill with Cream Filling or Whipped Cream. Cream 
pufT mixture may be fried in deep fat. Creamed vegetables and meat or fish may be served 
in cream puff cases. 



CREAM FILLING 

% c. sugar 1 tsp. salt 2 c. scalded milk 

1/3 c. flour 2 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

Mix dry ingredients; add eggs slightly beaten, and pour on gradually the scalded milk. 
Cook 15 minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly imtil thickened. Cool and flavor. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

1 pt. heavy cream 1/3 c, sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Beat the cream with a Dover egg-beater until thick; add sugar and vanilla. Beat until 
thoroly mixed. Cream should be cold and the bowl containing it placed in a pan of ice 
water while beating. If beaten too long it will separate, 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRE 

Shape cream puflT mixture 41/2 in. long by 1 in. wide. Bake about 25 minutes in a 
moderate oven. Split and fill with cream filling. Frost with chocolate frosting. 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Mix 4 tbsp. boiling water or scalded cream with 1 square melted chocolate, add enough 
confectioner's sugar gradually to make it of right consistency to spread. One yolk of ^^,^ may 
be added and V^ tsp. vanilla. 



[Lesson 14B] NOURISHING DESSERTS [Page 35] 

APPLE SNOW 

% c. apple pulp Whites 3 eggs Powdered sugar 

Pare, quarter and core 4 sour apples. Steam until soft and rub through sieve. There 
should be % c. apple pulp. Beat the whites of eggs until stiff; add gradually apples sweet- 
ened to taste. Pile lightly on a dish and serve with custard sauce. One tbsp. lemon juice 
may be added. 

PRUNE WHIP may be made by substituting % c. pulp of steamed prunes. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

iy2 c. scalded milk 1/4 c. sugar i/f. tsp. vanilla 

Yolk 3 eggs Vs tsp. salt 

Beat the yolks slightly, add sugar and salt; stir constantly while adding gradually the 
hot milk to the yolk mixture. Return to the double boiler. Cook in the double boiler, 
stirring constantly until the mixture thickens, and a coating is formed on the spoon. Chill 
and flavor. If cooked too long, custard will curdle. Should this happen, beating the mixture 
with a Dover egg beater will restore the smooth consistency. When 'eggs are scarce use 
two yolks and ^^ tbsp. cornstarch. 

TAPIOCA CREAM PUDDING 

1^2 tbsp. minute tapioca, or % c. pearl tapioca Vs c. sugar 
2 c. scalded milk % tsp. salt 

2 eggs 1 tbsp. vanilla 

Pick over tapioca and soak one hour in cold water to cover. Drain, add to milk and 
cook in a double boiler until tapioca is transparent. Mix the yolks with the sugar and salt. 
Combine by pouring hot mixture slowly into egg mixture. Return to double boiler and cook 
until it thickens while stirring constantly. Fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff; remove 
from range, chill and serve. 




Sago Pudding, with Whipped Cream and Candied Cherries 

SAGO PUDDING 

V2 c. sago 1/3 c. sugar 

2 c. scalded milk 14 tsp salt 

2 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla or grated rind one lemon 

Pick over sago and wash, drain, add to milk, and cook in a double boiler until sago 
is transparent. Mix the yolks with sugar and salt. Combine mixtures by pouring hot mix- 
ture slowly into egg mixture and cook in a double boiler until thickened. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites; remove from range. Flavor and mold. Serve cold with 

GRAPE SAUCE 

y2 c. sweetened grape juice % c. water 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 

Heat the grape juice and water; add the cornstarch diluted with % c. cold water. Boil 5 
minutes, stirring until thickened; add the lemon juice. If not sweet enough, add sugar to 
taste. 

One pound grapes usually makes 1 pt. juice; 1 c. sugar is usually added to 1 pt. of grape 
juice. 



[Page 36] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCTENCE [Lesson 15A] 

FOOD 

Lifeless food makes life tissue. 

FOOD is anything that nourishes the body. 

Food is necessary for repair, growth and energy. The food is to the body what wood, 
coal or other fuel is to the locomotive engine. Let us make use of this familiar comparison: 

The Locomotive Engine The Human Body 

1. Material structure 1. Material structure 

2. Fuel — coal, wood, etc. 2. Food. 

3. Air 3. Air 

4. Water 4. Water 

5. Waste products 5. Waste products 

Neither the body nor the engine can do its work without food or fuel and plenty of 
fresh air. 

The fuel in the fire-box of the engine is burnt by the aid of the oxygen in the air 
uniting with the carbon in the fuel. The heat produced changes the water into steam, and 
the expansion of this steam produces motion. 

The human body moves from place to place and is kept warm because a slow fire is 
burning within us. The food taken into the body is burnt or oxidized in nearly every part 
of the body. Without fresh air and food every day the slow fire would go out and we would 
gradually waste away and die. 

Every part of the steam engine is always wearing out, but it cannot repair itself. 

The body, too, is always wearing out, but it can repair itself. Every beat of the heart, 
every movement of a muscle, etc., all lead to waste. What we eat and drink takes the 
place of what is used up. 

The young and growing must take in a little more than what is used up. The food we 
eat is turned into flesh, bone, hair, etc., besides furnishing heat and energy. 

The food must be digested, absorbed and assimilated. The blood carries the absorbed 
food to every part of the body. 

The engine gets rid of its waste in the form of ashes, cinders, and gases. 

The body gets rid of its waste products by diflferent channels, breath, perspiration, etc. 

The engine will not do its work unless all parts are kept in working order. 

Each and every part of the human body, in order to do its work properly, must be kept 
in a good condition, used in the proper way, and kept clean inside and outside. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 15B] 



FRUIT TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 



[Page 37] 




FRUIT TAPIOCA AND SAGO PUDDINGS 



APPLE 



PEACH 

Rind ^ lemon 

y-2 c. tapioca or sago 

Cold water to cover 

% c. boiling water 

2 c. canned peaches and 

syrup 
14 tsp. salt 
% e. sugar 
1 tbsp. lemon juice 
Rind y^ lemon 



STRAWBERRY 

y-2 c. tapioca or sago 
Cold water to cover 
IV3 c. boiling water 
iy<2, c. strawberry pulp or 

\y<2, c. canned strawberries 

Sweeten to taste 
Vs tsp. salt 
Rind % lemon 



% c. tapioca 
Cold water to cover 
2^ c. boiling water 
7 sour apples cut in 

eighths (cooked) 
y^, tsp. salt 
y^ c. sugar 
1 tbsp. lemon juice 
Few grs. nutmeg and 

cinnamon 

DIRECTIONS. — Wash and soak the tapioca and sago one hour or more in enough cold 
water or fruit juice to cover; add the boiling water, cooked fruit, fruit juices, salt, sugar and 
lemon rind. Cook in a double boiler until tapioca or sago is transparent. Mold, chill and serve 
with cream and sugar. Minute tapioca may be used, and this requires no soaking. 

The cooked fruit, when large fruit is used, may be used to line the mould, and only the 
fruit juices added to the tapioca mixture. 

The stiffly beaten whites of two or three eggs may be folded in just before pouring the 
mixture into the mould. The yolks may be used in making a custard sauce, and served with 
the pudding. Adding the eggs makes the pudding more nutritious. 



NORWEGIAN PRUNE PUDDING 



1/2 lb. prunes 1 tsp. lemon juice 11/2 c. boiling water 

2 c. cold water Rind % lemon Vs c. cornstarch 

1 c. sugar 1 inch piece stick cinnamon 

Pick over and wash prunes, then soak one hour or more in cold water to cover. Boil 
until soft in the water in which they have been soaked. Remove the stones; add sugar, 
lemon juice, rind, cinnamon, boiling water, and simmer fifteen minutes. Mix cornstarch 
with enough cold water to pour easily, add to cooked prune mixture and cook 5 minutes. 
Remove cinnamon, mold and chill. Serve with plain or whipped cream. Chopped almonds 
may be added to the mixture just before being poured into the mould. 



[Page 38] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 16A] 

FOOD— Continued 

The whole world is made up of elements and their compounds. 

Of the seventy different elements, only about thirteen enter into the composition of the 
body. The four most important are: Oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and nitrogen. These are 
formed into chemical compounds by the vegetable and animal kingdoms, and support the 
human being. 

The substances comprising the body must be obtained from the food, air (N4 0) and 
water (H2 0). That it may be easier to understand the subject of foods and their diges- 
tion, food is classified as follows: 

iProteids 
Carbohydrates 
Fats and Oils 

. ^^„„„- ( Mineral Matter 
inorganic j^y^^^^ 

Proteids always contain nitrogen and are called nitrogenous foods. 

They also contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and one or more elements, and are called 
tissue-builders, because their chief office is to build and repair tissues. 

Example: Fish, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, peas, beans and cereals. 

Carbohydrates include all the sugars and starches. 

They contain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The chief office of the carbohydrates is 
to furnish energy and maintain heat. 

Example: Cereals, rice, sago, tapioca; vegetables, (potatoes); sugar cane, sugar of 
fruits, etc., cellulose and gums. 

Fats and Oils are composed of carbon and hydrogen, with a little less oxygen than the 
carbohydrates. The chief office of the fats and oils is to store up heat and energy to be 
used as needed, and they form the fatty tissues of the body. They yield about twice as 
much heat, pound for pound, as the carbohydrates. They are obtained from both the animal 
and the vegetable kingdoms. 

Example: Butter, cream, and the fat of meats, fish, cereals, nuts, and the berry of the 
olive tree (olive oil). 

Mineral Matter. — The chief office of mineral matter is to build up bone and other tissue, 
to aid digestion, and to purify the blood. 

Example : Sodium, iron, lime, potash, sulphur, salt. 

Water. — See Lesson 4A. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 16B] 



SIMPLE SALADS 



[Page 39] 



1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. mustard 

2 tsp. sugar 

Mix the salt, 
with 1 tbsp. cold 
the scalded milk; 
the yolk mixture, 
mixture thickens. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

Few grs. cayenne 

1 tbsp. flour 

Yolks 2 eggs or 1 egg 



% c. scalded milk 
% c. hot vinegar. 



mustard, sugar and cayenhe; add the yolks nnd mix thoroly. Stir flour 
water until smooth. Add a little of the scalded milk, stir, pour it into 
cook in a double boiler, continue stirring until thickened. Pour it into 
return to double boiler, add the hot vinegar, stirring constantly until the 
Add the butter. Cool before using. If cooked too long it will curdle. 



SHREDDED CABBAGE OR COLD SLAW 

Remove wilted leaves, and cut a quarter from a small head of cabbage and let stand in 
cold water until crisp. Cut out stalk, and cut into very fine pieces. Serve with cooked 
salad dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Scoop out the inside of a small head of cabbage. Cut into small pieces. Add finely 
cut celery. Soak until crisp in cold water. Drain. Moisten with salad dressing. May be 



served in the cabbage head 




POTATO SALAD 

2 c. cubed boiled potatoes 1 c. finely cut celery 

1 apple cut in i/4-inch cubes Salad dressing 

Add salad dressing to moisten. Garnish with celery tips, curled celery or hard-boiled 



eggs. 




SALMON SALAD 

Flake remnants of cold boiled salmon, or canned salmon. Add celery moistened with 
salad dressing. Arrange on nests of lettuce leaves. Garnish with the yolk of a hard cooked 
egg forced thru a potato ricer or strainer, and the white of egg cut into strips. Thin slices 
of lemon dipped in finely cut parsley may be used as a garnish. 



[Page 40] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 17A] 

LAYING THE TABLE 

The room should be in perfect order, the air fresh, and the temperature comfortable. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Cover the table with an undercloth of felting or Canton flannel, or a clean cotton blanket 
may be used. Over this spread a spotless table cloth evenly, the middle fold upward dividing 
the table exactly in half. 

POSITION OF HOST AND HOSTESS 

Position of the host, at the head of the table, near entrance door. Hostess at the foot 
of the table opposite. 

PLACING TRAY CLOTH, CARVING CLOTH, CENTERPIECE, ETC. 
Tray cloth in front of hostess; carving cloth in front of host, on which arrange the 
knife rest. Carafe cloths near corners of table. 

PLACING PLATES 

Place a plate for each person, one ivwii from edge of table. If bread and butter plates 
are used, place one plate a little to the kft, with butter spreader on edge of plate, a little 
to the right of plate. If individual butter plates are used, place ever tip of fork. 

PLACING KNIVES, FORKS AND SPOONS 

Place the knife or knives at the right rrf each plate, the sharp edge toward the plate; 
the fork or forks at the left, tines up, oiu inch from the edge, being careful to have the 
spacing the same at every place. Spoons at right of knife, bowls up, handles an inch from 
the edge of the table, or over the plate, handles to the right. Place silver in the order in 
which it is to be used counting from the outside toward the plate. 

PLACING THE GLASSES 

Place the water glass top up at right of plate, at end of knife blade. 

PLACING NAPKINS, PEPPER, SALT 

Place napkins at left of plate. Pepper and salt near corners, or one of each between 
the places for two people. 

CHAIRS 
Arrange chairs so they need not be drawn out when people are seated. 

SIDEBOARD AND SIDE-TABLE 
Object: To hold all extras that may be needed during a meal. Sideboard may or may 
not be covered. Side table should always be covered. 

EXTRAS ON SIDEBOARD 

Plates, tumblers, forks, knives, spoons, cups, saucers, sugar bowl and creamer, water 
pitcher, milk pitcher, crushed ice, finger bowls, oil and condiment?. 

SIDE-TABLE 

Serving plates, silver, carving knives and forks, trays (small), table scraper and tray. 
Space for soup tureen cover, vegetable dishes, gravy boats, etc. 

Have at hand a soft napkin and heavy cloth in case of accident. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 17B] BREAKFAST TABLE [Page 41] 

BREAKFAST 

ARRANGE COFFEE SERVICE ON TRAY CLOTH 

Before Serving — Fill finger bowls Vs full of tepid water, and place on a fruit plate 
covered with a doily. Knife at right and spoon at left. 

Place fruit in center of table. 

Cut bread and place on table; also butter balls. Fill carafes, water pitcher, milk 
pitcher and creamer. Put crushed ice in tumblers, fill % full of water. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR SERVING 

Meal is served from the table by host and hostess, or from side table by the waitress. 

Warm plates for hot food. 

Cold plates for cold food. 

Dishes are held in the palm of the left hand on a folded napkin, or placed on a tray 
covered with a doily. 

Everything is placed at the right and passed at the left. 

In passing, hold left hand or tray low enough that each person may serve himself easily. 

Serving silver should be placed in dish of food be fore pttssing. 

It possible, serve hostess first and host last; serving those at right of hostess, then those 
at left. Serve one course around the table to the right, the second to the left, that all may 
be sure of equal attention. 

Keep glasses properly filled. To fill glasses, draw to edge of table (do not remove from 
table) then replace. 

IN CLEARING THE TABLE BETWEEN COURSES. 
First, remove food, platters, serving dishes. 

Second, soiled china, silver, glass, cutlery. Do not remove silver and cutlery from dishes 
in which they have been used. 

Third, clean china, glass and cutlery. 

Remove everything relating to one course before serving another. 

Plates should be removed with the right hand at left of person, one at a time. If two 
are removed at once, take one in each hand; never pile. 



[Page 42] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 18A] 

DINNER 

A SIMPLE DINNER may consist of two courses, meat or fish with vegetables, and a 
dessert. 

A Dinner may consist of three courses, soup meat or fish with vegetables, and a dessert. 

A Dinner may have more courses, as soup with rolls or bread, croutons or baked crack- 
ers, fish, meat with vegetables, salad, dessert, coffee. 

ARRANGE THE CLOTHS, KNIVES AND FORKS AS FOR THE BREAKFAST 

Place at the right of each knife a soup spoon and a teaspoon, or riiore if needed. 

A carving knife and fork should be placed at the right of the host, who usually serves 
the meat, and the tablespoons beside the dish to be served. 

Bread sticks or dinner bread is placed in the folds of the napkin. 

If the serving is done by the host or hostess, the hostess should serve the soup, vegeta- 
bles, salad, dessert, and tea or coffee; the host, meat or fish. 

VVith a waitress, the hostess serves the soup, salad, dessert and coffee; the host, meat or 
fish, while the waitress passes the plates as food is served, and also serves the vegetables and 
entrees. 

Place a ladle with the handle at the right, beside the tureen, before the hostess, and hot 
soup plates directly in front, almost touching tureen to prevent dripping on cloth. 

In serving, soup should be dipped away from, not toward, the person. The same rule 
holds good in eating it. 

After the cover has been removed from the tureen, the waitress should stand at the left 
of the one who is serving, hold the tray in the left hand, and with the right place the filled 
plate on the tray. Take it to the right of each person and, with the right hand, set it in 
front.close to the edge of the table. 

After the first course, remove the soup tureen and the plates, one at a time, on a tray, or 
by taking one in each hand. Never pile one on the other. 

Arrange the meat and the plates for the second course. 

If anything is served with the course, the dish containing it should be placed on the 
tray, or held in the palm of the left hand on a folded napkin, with the handle of the serving 
spoon or fork toward the person. Pass it to the left side of each. 

In removing a course, take large dishes or platters first; then the plates and knives 
and forks. 

The carving knife and fork should be placed side by side on the platter. 

Before the dessert is placed on the table, remove all dishes except the dessert spoons 
and glasses. Remove crumbs with a crumb knife or napkin. 

Place the dessert in front of the hostess, serving spoon or fork at her right, plates and 
saucers in front or at the left. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 18B] 



PRACTICE TEST LESSON 



[Page 43] 




Luncheon Prepared From Left-Overs 

MENU I 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Pop Corn Bread Sticks 

Scalloped Veal and Tomatoes 
Tomato Sauce Bread and Butter 

Fruit Tapioca, Cream and Sugar 



MENU II 

Tomato Soup 

Celery Crackers 

Scalloped Flaked Cod 

or 

Hot Meat Sandwiches 

Potatoes with Parsley Sauce Bread and Butter 

Sago Pudding with Grape Sauce 



Prepare above, using large recipes. 

Cost of preparing above menus to serve six: 

Material Quantity 



Cost 



[Page 44] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES FOR FIRST SEMESTER. 



Corn Oysters 



2 tbsp. sweet corn 
2 tsp. beaten egg 
2 tsp. flour 
Few grs. salt 
Few grs. pepper 



Milk Toast 

1 slice brea 



Sauce 



1/4 c. milk 
1 tsp. flour 
1 tsp. cold water 
Few grains salt 



LESSON 6B 

Baked Corn 

2 tbsp. corn 

% yolk egg 

2 tsp. flour 

1/^ tsp. green peppei 

i/a tsp. salt 

y^ beaten white 

LESSON 7B 



Stuffed Tomatoes 

1 tomato 

3 tbsp. cracker crumbs 

4 tbsp, finely chopped 

cooked meat 
y-2 tsp. butter 
1-16 tsp. salt 
Few grs. pepper 



Demonstrate Croustades 

and 

Eggs a la Golden Rod 

1 hard-cooked egg 



LESSON 8B 



Hot Chicken Sandwich Recipe 

May use small piece of veal 

1 slice of bread cut in fourths, makinu 

two small sandwiches 
14 c. sauce made with stock 



German Toast. 

2 tsp. egg 
Few grs. salt 
1/^ tsp. sugar 
xy^ tbsp. milk 
1 slice bread 



LESSON 9B 

Baked Apple. 

1 apple 
1 tbsp. sugar 
Few grs. cinnamon 
Few grs. nutmeg 
Rind Vs lemon 



Demonstrate 
The Club House Sandwich 



Demonstrate 
Baked Bananas 



Tomato Soup 

14 c. tomatoes 
y^ c. water 
2 peppercorns 
Bit of bay leaf 
1 clove 
1-6 tsp. sugar 



1-6 slice onion 
1-6 tsp. salt 
\^ tsp. soda 
1 tsp. flour 
1 tsp. water 
1 tsp. butter 



LESSON lOB 

Vegetable Soup 

1 slice carrot 

1 slice turnip 

1 tsp. celery 

3 slices potato 

1 slice onion 



Small piece of suet 
\y2 c. water 
y^ tsp. parsley 
Few grs. pepper 
14 tsp. salt 



% c. milk 
^ slice onion 
1 tbsp. flour 



LESSON IIB 
Cream of Potato Soup 



y^ potato 
% c. milk 
14 slice onion 
1 tsp. butter 
1 tsp. flour 



1/3 tsp. salt 

Few grs. celery salt 

14 tsp. parsley 

1 slice bread for Imperial Sticks 



Cream of Tomato Soup 



% c. tomatoes 
1-16 tsp. soda 
14 tsp. sugar 



2 tsp. butter 
14 tsp. salt 



Few grs. pepper 
1 cracker 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES FOR FIRST SEMESTER 



[Page 45] 



Scalloped Apples. 



Sauce 



LESSON 12B 

Scalloped 



V2 apple 

iVz tbsp. sugar 

Few grains cinnamon 

Few grains nutmeg 

14 c, water 

% tsp, lemon juice 

V3 c soft bread crumbs packed 

1 tsp. butter 



y2 egg 
1 tbsp. meat 

4 tbsp. crumbs and 2 tsp. butter 
3 tbsp. white sauce (?) enough to 
moisten 



LESSON 13B 



Omelet 



Vg tsp. salt 
Few grs. pepper 
1 tbsp. hot water 
1/4 tbsp. butter 



LESSON 14B 

Cream Puffs. 

2 tbsp. butter 

4 tbsp. boiling water 

4 tbsp. floui 

1 egg 



LESSON 13B 



Pop Overs 



4 tbsp. flour 

1-16 tsp. salt 

?,% tbsp. milk 

2 tbsp. beaten egg 

1-16 tsp. melted butter 



Apple Snow. 

y2 apple steamed 

Yz beaten white of egg 

1 tbsp. powdered sugar 



LESSON 14B 

Prune Whip 

3 prunes 

Ys beaten white of egg 

1 tbsp. powdered sugar 



Custard Sauce. 

1/4 c. scalded milk 
1-16 tsp. salt 
2 tsp. sugar 
1/2 yolk 

Few drops vanilla 



Sago Pudding 

% tbsp. sago 
1/3 c. milk 
% yolk and white 
2 tsp. sugar 
Few grs. salt 
4 drops vanilla 



Grape Sauce. 

3 tbsp. grape juice 
3 tbsp. water 
1/4 tsp. corn starch 
1 tsp. lemon juice 



LESSON 16B 



Salad Dressing 

14 tsp. salt 

14 tsp. mustard 

% tsp. sugar 

Few grs. cayenne 

IV2 tsp. flour 

% yolk 

3 tbsp. scalded milk 

1 tbsp. vinegar 



Potato Salad 

14 c. potato cubed 
1 slice apple 
1 tsp. celery 



Salmon Salad 

1% tbsp. salmon 



Demonstrate Cabbage Salad 



[Page 46] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SQENCE 



NOTES: [Page 47] 



[Page 48] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 49] 



[Page 50] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 19A] 

CARBOHYDRATES^HEAT AND ENERGY PRODUCERS 
CARBOHYDRATES CONTAIN CARBON, HYDROGEN AND OXYGEN 

The hydrogen and oxygen are in the same proportion as in water (H2 0). 

Containing a large amount of carbon, the element which will bum, they are classed as 
fuel foods. 

The Fuel Foods which we eat combine in our bodies with the oxygen inhaled with the air 
we breathe, producing heat and the necessary power for motion. 

The slow fire in our bodies takes place in all the tissues. 

The normal temperature of the body is 98 plus deg. F., and as this is the same summer 
and winter, we need more fuel foods in the winter than in the summer. 

Carbohydrates furnish energy and maintain heat. 

Carbohydrates include all the starches and sugars. 

Carbohydrates in the form of starch furnish a bulky food, and while a certain amount of 
bulk is necessary, an excess causes gastric trouble. 

STARCH 
STARCH is a white glistening powder. It is found in the vegetable kingdom and most 
abundantly in cereals (rice, wheat, oats, etc.), sago, tapioca, nuts, arrowroot and vegetables. 
Alone it cannot sustain life, but must be taken with foods that build and repair tissue. 

Experiments show that: 

* 1. Cold water separates the starch grains. 

2. Boiling water swells and softens starch grains. If starch has been mixed with 

cold water first, boiling water added forms a soft paste. 

3. Boiling water poured on dry starch forms a lumpy mixture. 

4. Starch mixed with sugar before boiling water is added separates the starch 

grains and forms a smooth paste. 

5. Starch mixed with melted butter before adding boiling water separates the 

starch grains and forms a smooth mixture, 

6. Starch heated without water becomes sticky, yellow, brown, then black, but 

does not swell nor soften. 

Heat and moisture are necessary to soften starch. 

Raw starch is not soluble. 

All foods containing starch must be thoroly cooked in order to prepare them for digest' - 
tion. 

The digestion of starch begins in the mouth, where, if masticated sufficiently, it is acted 
upon by the ptyalin of the saliva. This changes the starch into a soluble substance called 
dextrine (a sugar). The food passes on to the stomach where no action takes place on 
starch, and into the small intestines, where the change into dextrose (or sugar) is completed 
by the action of amylopsin, a ferment in the pancreatic juice. 

All starch must be changed into dextrose before it can be absorbed and used in the body. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 19B] 



POTATOES 



[Page 51] 



A POTATO IS A TUBER OR AN ENLARGEMENT OF THE UNDERGROUND STEM 

Potatoes contain more than three-quarters water and nearly one-fifth starch. They also 
contain a very small amount of proteid matter, potash salts and other mineral matter.' 

Potatoes should be kept in a cool, dark, dry place. If kept in a light place, an unpleas- 
ant flavor is developed. 

Potatoes pared before being boiled lose much of their food value during cooking. 

Most of the mineral matter lies just beneath the skin. 

Always pare potatoes thinly when skin is removed, and take out eyes with the point of 
the knife. 

Old or poor potatoes are improved by soaking for one hour in cold water, as it restores 
the moisture lost by long drying. 

Rapidly boiling water wears off the outside of the potato before the middle is cooked. 
Let it bubble gently. 

If the outside of large potatoes becomes soft before the inside is cooked, add one pint of 
cold water. There is heat enough inside the potato to finish the cooking. 

Quickly baked potatoes are more easily digested than boiled potatoes. 
BOILED POTATOES 

Choose medium-sized potatoes. Wash, pare and drop into cold water. Cook in freshly 
boiling salted water until soft. Drain, uncover and shake gently over the fire until the out- 
side is dry and mealy. 

NOTE.— One tsp. salt to 1 qt. of wat -i. 




RICED POTATOES 
Press hot boiled potatoes thru the ricer or a coarse strainer. 
MASHED POTATOES 
6 medium-sized potatoes Vs tsp. pepper 1 tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. butter l^ c. hot milk or more 

Boil and drain the potatoes — rice and mash in the saucepan in which they have been 
cooked. 

Season, add the butter, and gradually the hot milk. 

Beat until light with a fork, or wire beater, and pile on a hot dish. 

BAKED POTATOES 
Select medium-sized potatoes, wash, scrub and dry them well. Bake them in a shallow 
pan on the rack in a moderately hot oven until soft (about 40 to 45 min). Turn them occa- 
sionally, and when soft press them between the fingers to break the skins in order to let the 
steam escape. Serve in a folded napkin. 




POTATO PUFFS 
Bake 6 potatoes. When baked, cut slice from top of each and scoop out inside. 
Mash according to recipe for mashed potatoes. 
Refill the jackets, brush the tops with slightly beaten white of egg, and brown in oven. 

CREAMED POTATOES 
Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and allow II2 c. white sauce to 2 c. cubed potatoes. 
Reheat new potatoes in white sauce. Finely minced parsley may be added. 



[Page 52] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 20A] 



CARBOHYDRATES— CEREALS 

CEREALS or GRAINS are grasses, the seeds of which are used for food. 

The word "Cereal" comes from the name of the Roman goddess, Ceres, who was called 
the "Goddess of Agriculture." 

Nature provides some kind of a cereal in almost every country — from the oats and rye 
of the northern countries to the rice of the southern countries. Man depends on it for his 
daily bread. The following data, based upon the results gathered in dietary studies, shows 
that cereal foods alone supplied the average family with 22% of the total food consumed — 
furnishing 31% protein, 7% fat and 55% carbohydrates in the diet. Cereals provide a com- 
pact food in a dry state easily kept. They contain the food elements in a desirable propor- 
tion with a small amount of refuse, are easily prepared, and furnish a digestible and inex- 
pensive food. All grains are covered with a hull or husk, which is indigestible. This is always 
removed. They also have another coating, a bran layer, which may or may not be removed. 
This is rich in mineral matter. In some the germ is removed. 

Grains should be thoroly cooked before serving. 

The grains usually used for food are: Wheat, oats, corn, rice, rye, and barley. 

Grains crushed are called grits. 

Grains crushed more finely or coarsely ground make meal. 

Grains finely ground and sifted make flour. 

Grains are usually mixed with water or other liquid to hydrate the starch, boiled or 
steamed and served as porridge or pudding, or with meat stock in soups, or with milk or 
water and baked into bread or cakes. 

The cooking swells and bursts the starch cells. 

Among the most important are wheat, Indian com or maize, oats, rice, rye, and barley. 

From these are prepared various breakfast foods— oatmeal, wheatena, vitos, etc. 

They all contain more or less starch and therefore should be thoroly cooked. 

Cereals contain from 66 to 75% starch, from 7 to 15% proteid, from 1 to 10% fat, from 
10 to 12% water. 

Cereals should absorb all the water in cooking. 

The cooked cereal should be stiff enough to be chewed. Why? 



TABLE SHOWING COMPOSITION OF CEREALS. 








Proteid 


Fat 


Starch 


Minerals 


Water 


Oatmeal 


15.6 

14.2 

13.7 

11.8 

10.4 

9.3 

8.9 

7.8 

7.1 

6.1 


7.3 
1.9 
2.2 
1.1 
1.0 
1.0 
2.2 
0.4 
0.9 
1.0 


68.0 
70.6 
70.3 
75.0 
75.6 
77.6 
75.1 
79.4 
78.5 
77.2 


1.9 
1.2 
2.0 
0.5 
0.5 
1.3 
0.9 
0.4 
0.8 
1.4 


7.2 


Entire Wheat Flour 


•12.1 


Graham Flour 


11.8 


Wheat Flour (Spring) 


11.6 




12.5 


Cornmeal 


10.8 




12.9 


Rice 


12.4 


Rye Meal . . 


12.7 


Buckwheat Flour 


14.3 



The preceding table is from the Department of Agriculture, Washington. 

For Family Use, cereals should be bought in small quantities, and kept in glass or tin 
jars tightly covered. 

GENERAL RULES 

Directions for Lower Part of Double Boiler. — Fill the lower part of the double boiler 
one-third full of water; it must be kept rapidly boiling while cereal is cooking. If more 
water is needed before the cereal is cooked, add boiling water. 

Directions for Upper Part of Double Boiler. — Measure the water, boil, add salt and the 
cereal slowly, and place directly over the heat. Boil from 5 to 10 minutes, stirring to pre- 
vent burning; place over the boiling water which is in the lower part of double boiler and 
steam until cooked. If more water is needed, add boiling water. 
TABLE showing the time of cooking, and proportions of salt and water for Breakfast Cereals. 



KIND 


Tsp.ofSalt 

to a Cup of 

Cereal 


Cupfuls of 
Water to 1 
Cup Cereal 


Method of 
Cooking 


Time of Cooking 
in Hours 


OATMEAL, ROLLED OATS, etc 

RICE 


1 
3 

1 
1 

1 

1 


2 

8 or more 

3 

6 

4 

4 


Steam 
Boil 
Steam 
Boil 

Steam 


1 hour or more 
% hour or more 


RICE 


1 hour 


INDIAN MEAL 


If soaked, 3; 


HOMINY 


If not, 6 
If soaked, 3; 


FARINA and other fine wheat pro- 
ductions 


Steam 


If not, 6 
1 to 3 hours 



[Lesson 20B] CEREALS [Page 53] 




Oatmeal Mush with Apples 

OATMEAL MUSH WITH APPLES 

1 c. oatmeal (rolled) 1 tsn. salt 

2 c. boiling water 6 cooked apples 

Place lower part of double boiler V^ full of water over the fire. 

Measure the boiling water and salt into top part of double boiler. Place directly over 
the fire. Add oatmeal gradually. Boil directly over the fire from 5 to 10 minutes. Place 
upper part of double boiler containing cereal into lower part of boiler containing water. 
Cook 1 hour, or more. 

Core apples; leave large cavities; pare and cook in syrup (made of 1% c. of water and 
Va c. sugar) until soft. Fill the centers with oatmeal mush and serve with cream. 

WHEATENA WITH DATES, FIGS, PRUNES, ETC. 

% c. wheatena 2 c. of boiling water % lb. dates, stoned and 

1^ c. cold water 1 tsp. salt cut in pieces 

Mix cereal, salt, dates and cold water; add boiling water gradually, place on front of 
range. Boil 5 minutes, then cook in double boiler 1 hour or more. Serve with cream. 

PETTIJOHN'S BREAKFAST FOOD 

1 e. Pettijohn's Breakfast Food 1 tsp. salt 

iVi c. water Follow rules for cooking cereals. 

CEREAL OMELET 

4 eggs 1/4 e. or 4 tbsp. soft cooked 

Yi tsp. salt cereal, Vitos, Cream of 

Wheat, etc. 

Beat yolks until thick; add salt and cooked cereal. 

Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and cook in a buttered omelet pan. 

Follow directions in Lesson 13B. 

NOTE.— ALL CEREALS SHOULD BE THOROLY COOKED; THE LONGER THE BET- 
TER. CEREALS MAY BE COOKED THE PRECEDING DAY AND THEN REHEATED 
FOR BREAKFAST. COVER WITH A CLEAN, DAMP CLOTH SO THAT MOISTURE WILL 
NOT DROP INTO CEREAL FROM A TIN COVER. 

CEREALS ARE COOKED TO ADVANTAGE IN FIRELESS COOKERS. 

NOTE.— GRATED CHEESE MAY BE ADDED TO ANY COLD LEFT-OVER CEREAL, 
MADE INTO CROQUETTES AND FRIED. COLD CORNMEAL MUSH MAY BE SLICED 
AND SAUTED. 



[Page 54] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 21A] 

CARBOHYDRATES— RICE 

RICE IS A CEREAL, grown in Ceylon, China, Japan, Central America and the Gulf States. 

Rice is grown in swampy places and the very best rice is grown wliere there is a foot 
or two of water above the roots around the stem of the plants. 

There are two kinds of rice commonly sold, the Carolina rice which is a long slender 
grain, and the Japanese rice which is a short, flat, oval grain. 

1 he commercial rice }S usually polished and coated with glucose and talcum. The- polish- 
ing removes the covering which is rich in mineral matter and therefore makes it undesirable. 
Buy unpolished rice, as it is not only richer in mineral matter but also in protein. 

Rice is the richest in starch (having about 79 per cent) and the poorest in proteid and 
fat, of all the cereals. The starch grains are small and are easily digested. 

Rice is said to be the main food of one-third of the human race. With the exception 
of wheat, more millions of people eat rice as their main food than any other one cereal. 
The people of China, Japan and India use rice as their main food, not alone, but in combina- 
tion with protein foods. 

Alone, rice is not a perfect food. It should be eaten with foods that build and repair 
tissues, as eggs, milk, meat, cheese, etc. 

When boiled, rice absorbs five times its weight in water; but loses some of its small 
amount of mineral matter. 

The water in which rice has been cooked may be utilized in mixing bread, or it may be 
combined with vegetables and used as a basis for soups. 

The older and drier the rice, the longer it takes to soften. 

TO WASH RICE. — Put rice into a wire strainer; put strainer in a bowl of cold water, 
and rub the rice between the hands; change water two or three times, or until rice is clean, 
when the water will be clean. Polished rice should be washed in six waters to remove the 
talc and glucose covering. 

Review Carbohydrates. 

Make out five questions. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 21B] 



CARBOHYDRATES 



[Page 55] 



RICE 

PART I 

BOILED RICE 

2 qts. boiling water 



1 tsp. salt 



Pick over rice; add slowly to boiling salted water so as not to check the boiling of the 
water. Boil 30 minutes, or until soft. Drain in a coarse strainer and pour over it 1 qt. of 
the cold water, in order to separate the starch grains. Return to kettle, place on back oi 
range and let it stand to dry off, when kernels are distinct. When stirring rice always use 
a fork to avoid breaking kernels. 



STEAMED RICE 



3 to 4 c. boiling water or 
scalded milk 



1 c. rice 

1 tsp. salt 

Put water and salt in top of double boiler, place on range, and add gradually well washed 
rice, stirring with a fork to prevent adhering to boiler. Boil 5 minutes, place over under 
part of double boiler and steam 45 minutes, or until kernels are soft. Uncover that steam 
may escape. 



FLOATING ISLAND 

IY2 c. scalded milk ^4 c. sugar 3 whites of eggs 

3 yolks of eggs Vs tsp. salt V2 tsp. vanilla 

Scald the milk, beat the whites until stiff. Fold in 2 tbsp. of sugar, and turn them into 
the hot milk and cook 3 minutes. Remove whites wath a tablespoon into a serving dish. 
Prepare Custard Sauce. Mix the yolks, sugar and salt in a bowl. Pour the scalded milk in 
which the whites have been cooked into the yolks. Stir while adding. Pour back into the 
double boiler and cook until a coating is formed on the spoon. Remove immediately; add 
flavoring. Pour around the cooked whites. This may be served with boiled or steamed rice 
or alone. 

PART II. 




Rice with Pineapples, Walnuts and Whipped Cream 



RICE WITH APPLES OR PINEAPPLE 



2 steamed or cooked apples 
or % can pineapple 



2 c. steamed rice V2 c, milk 

3 eggs V2 c. sugar 

Pare and core the apples, cut in eighths and cook until soft. 

Add well beaten yolks of eggs, sugar, milk and cooked apples cut in small pieces to the 
steamed rice. Fold in the stifflv beaten whites and bake 30 minutes in a well buttered and 
crumbed baking dish. SERVE* WITH CREAM OR FRUIT SAUCE. 

Raisins or dates may be used in place of apples. 



[Page 56] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 22 A] 

CARBOHYDRATES— SUGAR 

SUGAR IS A SWEET CRYSTALLINE SUBSTANCE AND, LIKE STARCH, IS A CAR- 
BOHYDRATE. 

It differs from starch in being soluble in cold water, and in its sweet taste. 

Sugar is obtained from sugar cane, sugar beets, sorghum and sugar maple. 

SUGAR CANES are grown in the Gulf States, Cuba, Hawaiian Islands, East Indies, 
India and in other warm moist countries. They resemble cornstalks, and the spongy sub- 
stance between the joints is filled with a sweet juice or sap, from which cane sugar is made. 
Sometimes as many as 75 lbs. of sap are obtained from 100 lbs. of cane. The sap is heated 
in great kettles which causes the water to evaporate, leaving two products, molasses and 
brown sugar. The brown sugar is then refined by putting it through filters and cylinders 
which contain burned bones (bone black). When the liquid comes out of the bone filter it is 
a clear syrup. This is crystallized and made into Granulated, Loaf, Powdered and Confec- 
tioners' Sugar. 

GLUCOSE, OR GRAPE SUGAR, is found in honey, fresh fruit and on the skin of dried 
fruits, such as raisins, dates, etc. Commercial glucose is made from the starch of corn. Sugar 
boiled for any length of time with an acid changes some of it into glucose. 

SUGAR RANKS FIRST AS AN ENERGY GIVING FOOD. It passes quickly into cir- 
culation, so it produces energy in a very short time. It forms part of the rations of the 
soldiers of this and other countries. 

SUGAR is a great preservative, hence its use in preserving fruits and milk. 

EATEN AT PROPER TIMES, CANDY IS A USEFUL ARTICLE OF FOOD. It should 
not be eaten to excess nor before meals. If too much is eaten at a time, it is likely to ferment 
in the stomach. Three or four ounces a day may be considered the right amount for an 
adult. 

IN COOKING SUGAR FOR CANDY, use an agate or an iron pan, as it is less liable to 
hum than in tin. 

Butter pans for candy before it is cooked. 

Have ready some cold water in which to test the candy. 

When the candy is poured into the pan, do not scrape the saucepan over it, nor allow any 
of the scrapings to fall into it. 

Scraping or stirring the candy while cooling, after it has been poured into the pan, will 
cause it to become sugary. 

Acid substances like lemon-juice or cream-of-tartar added to the candy while cooking, 
will keep it clear. Temperatures: 

232 to 242 deg. F. — Soft ball. 345 deg. — Caramelization point. 

248 deg. F.— Hardball. 

KOTES: 



[Lesson 22B] CANDY 



:[Page 57] 




PEANUT CANDY 

2 c. sugar 1 qt. peanuts 14 tsp. salt 

SHELL, remove skins, and finely chop peanuts. Sprinkle with the salt. Put sugar into a 
perfectly smooth pan. Place on the range and stir until sugar is melted, taking care to 
keep the sugar from the sides. Add the nut meat and pour at once into the buttered pans. 

PINOCHE 

2 c. brown sugar 4 tbsp. butter 15 drops vanilla 

1/^ e. milk 1 c. nut meats 

BOEL the first three ingredients until a soft ball can be formed in cold water. 

Remove from fire, cool, add nut meat and vanilla, and beat until creamy. 

Pour into buttered pans. Cut in squares. 

The butter may be omitted and one cup of milk used in place of the % cupful. 

SEA FOAM 

2 c. sugar 1/2 c. corn syrup Whites two eggs 

% c. boiling water % c. chopped nut meats % tsp. vanilla 

BOIL first three ingredients until a hard ball can be formed in cold water, or until it 
spins a four inch thread. Pour syrup gradually into the stiffly beaten whites of eggs; add 
nut meats; beat until creamy; pour into a buttered pan to cool. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

1^2 c. sugar 2 tsp. butter i^ tsp. vanilla 

% c, milk 1 sq. Baker's chocolate 

BOIL first four ingredients until a soft ball can be formed when tried in cold water. 

Remove from fire and let stand 10 minutes. Beat until the mixture thickens; add vanilla. 

Pour quickly into a buttered pan. Cool and cut in squares. 

FRENCH CREAM 

1 egg white % tbsp. cold water 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 lb. confectioner's sugar , 
MIX the egg white, cold water and vanilla. Beat until thoroly I^ixed. Add gradually the 
sifted sugar to the liquid until the mixture is stiff enough to knead. It may be used instead 
of fondant, for creamed walnuts, dates and almonds. 

TAFFY 

1% c. light brown sugar 1 c. molasses V2 tsp. soda 

1 tbsp. butter 

BOIL together the first three ingredients until when tried in cold water it will form a 

hard ball. Add the soda, and pour into a buttered pan. Pull when slightly cool. 



[Page 58] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

WHEAT 



[Lesson 23A] 



Wheat is a Cereal grown in Russia, United States, France, India, Austria, Argentine, etc.* 

One-fifth of the whole world's crop is now raised in the United States. 

Minneapolis is the greatest flour center in the world. 

Most of the bread flour made from Spring Wheat is ground in Minneapolis and Duluth, 
while the pastry flour made from Winter Wheat is ground in St. Louis. 

Wheat has five times as much proteid, the tissue-building matter, and three times as 
much carbohydrate, the heat and energy giving matter, as the same quantity of potato. 




A Grain of Wheat 

A Grain of Wheat consists of — 

1. An outer covering or husk, which is always removed before milling. 

2. Bran coats which contain mineral matter. 
.3. Gluten, the proteid matter, 

4. Starch, the center and largest part of the grain. 

Lying next to it is the tiny germ which contains the fat or oil. 

Wheat is classed as Spring Wheat and Winter Wheat. 

Winter Wheat is planted in the Fall and lies in the ground during the winter, and is 
reaped early the next summer. 

Spring Wheat is planted in the spring and reaped in the fall. 

Spring Wheat contains more gluten and is harder than winter wheat and is used for 
bread flour. It is more economical to use bread flour for making bread, as less flour is 
required. 

Winter Wheat contains proportionately more starch, is softer than Spring Wheat, and is 
used for pastry flour. It is more economical to use pastry flour for pies and cakes, as less 
shortening is needed. 

Macaroni Wheat is harder than the ordinary Spring wheat, contains more gluten, and is 
made into flour used for macaroni and bread making. 

Three kinds of Flour are made from Wheat. 

Graham, Entire or Whole Wheat, and the White Flour. 
Graham Flour contains the entire grain, including the outer bran coats. 
Entire Wheat Flour contains the entire grain, not including the two outer bran coats. 
White Flour is made by grinding and sifting the grain several times, during which 
process all the bran is removed. 

( Proteid 11.3 

^, . ^ x * \ Carbohydrates .74.6 

The Average Composition of J ^^^t 11 

Wheat Flour ^ Mineral' Matter :::'.::::'.'.:'.'.:'.'.:'.'.'.'.::'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. 0.5 

\ Water 12.5 

*Named in order of amount grown in each country. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 23B] MACARONI [Page 59] 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and Vermicelli are made from Macaroni Wheat Flour. 

The flour is mixed with enough water to make a stiff paste. This paste, which is cut 
into cakes about one foot square and from one to three inches in thickness, is put into a 
steam heated iron cylinder. The bottom of this cylinder has a copper plate filled with holes 
having the centers filled, and by means of a cover fitted to a screw press, the mixture is 
forced through as rods, tubes, etc. After these are cut into lengths of about three feet, they 
are hung up to dry for five days before they are packed in boxes for the market. 

Good macaroni is rough, elastic and hard, of a yellowish color and not starchy. 

Macaroni is considered a valuable food, as it is nutritious and inexpensive. It should, 
however, be served with cream, butter or cheese to make it a perfect food. In cooking, 
macaroni absorbs three times its weight in water. Therefore it must be cooked in a large 
quantity of water. 

BOILED MACARONI 

% cup macaroni, broken into inch pieces 
2 quarts boiling water 
1 tbsp. salt 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water 20 minutes, or until soft. 

Drain in strainer. Pour over cold water to prevent pieces from adhering. 

MACARONI WITH WHITE SAUCE 
Cook as for Boiled Macaroni, and reheat in ly^ cups White Sauce. (Lesson 7B.) 





BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE 



Put a layer of boiled macaroni in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with grated cheese. 
Repeat. Pour over White Sauce, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are 
brown. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Brown 2 tbsp. butter; add 3 tbsp. flour, and gradually li/^ cups tomato juice which has 
been previously cooked with 1 slice onion, 2 cloves; 3 pepper corns and i/^ tsp. salt. 
Reheat boiled macaroni in the tomato sauce. 

MACARONI SALAD 

^2 c. boiled macaroni cut into i/g-inch pieces % c. boiled ham cut into %-inch cubes. 

% c. sweet pickles cut into small pieces 

Mix and moisten with boiled salad dressing (See Lesson 16B), using only 14 c. vinegar 
and 1/^ tsp. mustard. Serve on lettuce leaves, in tomato cups, or garnish with parsley, etc. 

LEFT OVERS OF MEAT may be used with the "Baked Macaroni" and the "Macaroni 
with Tomato Sauce." 



[Page 60] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 24A] 

FLOUR MIXTURES 

MIXTURES of Flour or Meal and Liquid are called batters or doughs, according to the 
quantity of liquid used. 

Batter is a mixture of flour and liquid thin enough to be beaten. 

Pour Batter is a thin batter — 1 meas. liquid to 1 meas. flour. Example: Griddle Cakes. 

Drop Batter is a thick batter — 1 meas. of liquid to 2 meas. of flour. Example: Muflins. 

Dough is a mixture of flour and liquid stiff enough to be handled on a board. 

Soft Dough. — 1 meas. liquid to 3 meas. flour. Example: Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Stiff Dough. — 1 meas. liquid to 4 meas. flour. Example: Pastry. 

The proportions vary according to the flour and liquid used. 

The liquid ingredients include water, milk, molasses, eggs, etc. 

The dry ingredients include flour, meal, sugar, salt, spices, baking powder, etc. 

The FATS called "shortening," added to make the mixture tender, include butter, lard, 
drippings, suet, chicken fat, etc. 

A mixture of flour and liquid alone when cooked woufd be hard and indigestible. 

Batters and doughs are made "light" or porous by the introduction of a gas which is 
expanded by the heat applied during the cooking. 

The gases that aid in making a dough "light"' or porous are air, steam and carbon 
dioxide. 

Air may be introduced into the mixture directly, or may be first beaten into eggs and 
then added to the mixture. (See Lesson 13A.) 

STEAM.— (See Lesson ISA.) 

Carbon dioxide may be formed within the mixture by the action of yeast during fer- 
mentation, or it may be set free by chemical action from substances containing the elements 
of which it is composed. Example: baking powder. (See Lesson 25A.) 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Sift flour before measuring. 

Put flour by spoonfuls into the cup; do not press or shake down. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. 

Measure dry and then liquid ingredients. Add the liquid to tiie dry ingredients. 

Shortening may be rubbed or chopped in while cold, or creamed; or it may be melted and 
then added to dry ingredients, or added after the liquid. 

Use 2 level tsp. baking powder to 1 c. flour. 

It eggs are used, less baking powder will be required. 

Baking powder mixtures should be handled as little as possible. 

Baking powder mixtures require a hot oven. 

In baking batters and doughs the larger the quantity the lower the temperature must be 
that the heat majr penetrate the interior and expand the gas and harden the albumen and 
gluten. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 24B] GRroDLE CAKES— POUR BATTER [Page 61] ; 

USE A FRYING PAN OR GRIDDLE. 

Keep the pan hot without burning the cakes. 

A piece of fat salt pork or beef fat placed on a fork, or butter, may be used to grease 
the pan. 

A soapstone or aluminum griddle must never be greased. 

Let the fat begin to smoke before cooking the cakes. 

Pour the mixture from the tip of the spoon; cook on one side. 

When puflfed full of bubbles and cooked on the edges, turn and cook on the other side. 

If large bubbles form at once to the top of the cakes, the griddle is too liot. 

If the top of the cake stiffens before the under side is cooked, the griddle is not hot 
enough. 

Never turn a cake twice. 

Remove all scraps and wipe pan after each set of cakes are cooked. 

Grease pan and repeat. 

Serve griddle cakes as soon as cooked. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 c. flour 2 c. sour milk i/^ tsp. salt 

1 tsp. soda 1 egg 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add sour milk and egg well beaten. 

Cook according to general directions. 




WHOLE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 
y2 c. entire wheat flour % tsp. salt 1 egg 

1 c. flour 3 tbsp. sugar 1^ c. milk 

3 tsp. or 1 tbsp. baking powder 1 tbsp. melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk and well beaten egg slowly. 
Beat and add butter. Cook according to general directions. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

1% c. stale bread crumbs 2 tbsp. butter % c. flour 

11/4 c. scalded milk 3% tsp. baking powder y^ tsp. salt 

2 eggs 
Add milk and butter to crumbs and soak until crumbs are soft. Add eggs well beaten, 
then flour, salt and baking powder mixed and sifted. Beat. Cook as other griddle cakes. 

LEMON SYRUP 

1 c. sugar Vs c. water 1 tbsp. lemon juice 1 tsp. butter 

Boil sugar and water 5 minutes. Remove from fire, stir in lemon juice and butter. 
Serve at once. 

WAFFLES 
1% c. flour 3 tsp. or 1 tbsp. baking % c. milk 

2 tbsp. sugar powder 3 tbsp. melted butter 
1 tsp. salt 2 well beaten eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add eggs, milk and melted butter. Mix. Beat thorolv. 
Cook in well greased waffle irons. 



[Page 62] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCTENCE [Lesson 25A] 

BAKING POWDER 

BAKING POWDER contains the substances used to produce carbon dioxide (C02). 

The substances are an alkaline: ex., bi-carbonate of soda (cooking soda) and an acid; 
ex., cream of tartar, phosphate, etc. These, together with heat and moisture, form the gas 
which, in its effort to escape, fills the mixture with bubbles, making it Hght and porous. 

If the mixture is baked, at the right temperatures, while the gas is forming, the heat 
of the oven firmly fixes the expanded bubbles in place and sets the mixture. 

The gluten of the flour enables the walls of the gas bubbles to become firm. The walls 
become firm sooner in an egg mixture because the albumen coagulates at a low temperature. 

During baking the gas escapes into the air, leaving a small amount of mineral matter in 
the mixture. Example: Rochelle salts, when a cream of tartar baking powder is used. 

Phosphates, when a phosphate baking powder is used. 

Aluminum sulphate when an alum baking powder is used. 

EXPERIMENTS 

I. Put into a heavy glass % tsp. soda, and Vi c. boiling water. Mix thoroly. What 
happens? 

II. Add to No. I, Vi tsp. cream tartar. "V^Tiat happens? 

HI. Put into a glass Vs tsp. soda and ^ tsp. cream of tartar. 

IV. Add to No. Ill, 1 tbsp. cold water and stir. What happens? 

V. Add to No. rV, 14 c. boiling water. 

I. Bicarbonate of soda is an alkaline substance and contains carbon dioxide. If hot 

water is added it will set free carbon dioxide. 

n. An acid substance like cream of tartar added to No. I will liberate more gas, and if 
the right proportion of acid is used it will set free all the gas, leaving the remaining mixture 

neutral; that is, neither acid nor alkaline. 

III. A dry mixture of soda and cream of tartar will not liberate the gas. 

IV. Cold water added to No. Ill liberates gas. 

V. Boiling water added to No. Ill causes a rapid escape of the gas. 

Other acids added to baking soda will liberate the C 02 gas in the same way. Example: 
sour milk and soda, molasses and soda. 
To 1 c. sour milk use % tsp. soda. 
To 1 c. molasses use 1 tsp. soda. 

HOW TO PREPARE BAKING POWDER 

One-half pound bicarbonate of soda. 
One pound and two ounces cream of tartar. 
One-quarter pound com starch. 

Free the soda from lumps; add to it the cornstarch, and sift six times. Add the cream 
of tartar and sift six times. Put into tin boxes and keep tightly covered. 

There is enough moisture in the air to start the action of the powder, so a little corn- 
starch is added to take up this moisture and keep the powder dry. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 25B] MUFFINS [Page 63] 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS.— Measure, mix and sift dry ingredients. Add well beaten 
egg, milk, and shortening melted. Beat vigorously. Half fill well greased muffin tins. Bake 
in a hot oven 20 or 30 minutes. 

NOTE. — By measuring dry ingredients first, then liquids and fat, you need only use one 
cup. When milk and eggs are used, rinse egg from bowl with milk. 




PLAIN MUFFINS 

2 c. flour 4 tsp. baking powder 1 c. milk 

2 tbsp. sugar i/^ tsp. salt 2 to 4 tbsps. melted butter 

1 or 2 eggs 
Mix according to directions. If two eggs are used, less baking powder is required. If a 
richer muffin is desired, use cranberry muffin recipe, omitting the berries. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1% c. graham flour 4 tsp. baking powder 1 c. milk 

Vz c. flour 1 tsp. salt 1 to 2 tbsps. melted butter 

14 c. sugar 1 egg 

Mix according to directions. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 

% c. rolled oats % tsp. salt 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. scalded milk 2 tbsp. melted butter 1 egg 

3 tbsp. sugar li/4 c. flour 

Add scalded milk to the rolled oats. Let stand 5 minutes. Add sugar, salt and melted 
butter. 

Sift in flour and baking powder; mix thoroly; add well beaten egg. Drop into buttered 
muffin tins. Bake. 

CORN MEAL GEMS 

% c. corn meal 3 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

1 tbsp sugar 14 tsp. salt 1 to 2 tbsp. melted butter 

% c. flour 1 c. milk 

Scald one-half the milk, then pour over the corn meal; add the butter, salt and sugar. 
Let stand until cool. Add the yolk, remaining milk and the sifted flour and baking powder. 
Beat thoroly, and fold in the stiffly beaten white. Bake in greased muffin tins. 

CRANBERRY MUFFINS 

1/3 c. butter % c. milk 1 c. berries (sprinkled with 

14 c. sugar 2 c. sifted flour 2 tbsp. sugar) 

1 egg 4 tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter, add sugar, well beaten egg, and milk, then the flour sifted with the 
B. P. Add berries, drop into muffin pans, and bake. If the berries are omitted, rich, plain 
muffins are the result. 



[Page 64]! 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 26A] 



CORN 

Corn is a native of America. 

It is claimed that there is more CORN raised in the United States than any other cereal. 

It is a native of America and Mexico. 

With the exception of OATS, corn is considered the richest in fat of all the cereals. 

The germ in the corn is proportionately large and rich in fat. It becomes rancid easily 
and is therefore often removed in the preparation of corn meal. This, of course, reduces 
the food value of the meal. 

It is deficient in gluten and salts, and should therefore be eaten with foods containing 
gluten and mineral matter. 

It is a very valuable food, especially in winter. Why? 

There are three kinds of Corn: Field Com, Sweet Corn, and Popcorn. 

From the Field Corn we get corn meal, cornstarch, com oil, corn syrup, etc. 

Broken grains of corn are known as hominy. 

Sweet Com is eaten as a vegetable in the form of green corn (see Lesson 4B) ; for cream 
soups (see Lesson llB) ; for corn souffle, scalloped corn, corn oysters, etc. (see Lesson 6B). 

Popcorn is a dwarf variety of field corn. When it is exposed to heat it swells and pops 
into a soft, white fluffy form. This is a delicious, wholesome food, and may be served with 
cream of corn soup. 

Corn meal is used in making Corn-cake (Lesson 26B), Muffins (Lesson 25B), Griddle 
cakes (Lesson 24B), Steamed Bread (Lesson 57B), etc. 

White flour is usually added to corn mixtures, as the gluten in the flour helps to hold 
the expanded bubbles in place. 

It is difficult to make a good light corn-cake Without adding the white flour. 



Total and Digestible Nutrients and Fuel Value of Cereals from "Human Foods" 
By Harry Snyder, B. S. 





Total Nutrients 


Digestible Nutrients 


KIND OF FOOD 


Water 


Pro. 


Fat 


c. 


H. 


Ash 


Pro 


Fat 


C.H. 


Ash 


Fuel 




N. F. 
Ext. 


Fiber 


Value 
per lb. 


OAT PREPARA- 
TIONS: 

Oats, whole grain 

Oatmeal, raw 

Rolled, steam cooked 

WHEAT: 


11.0 
7.3 

8.2 

10.5 
10.1 
10.6 
8.1 
5.6 
10.9 

11.6 

11.1 

10.9 
11.5 

13.6 

10.9 
11.6 
12.5 
10.9 
4.3 
74.1 

12.3 
7.1 
6.8 

10.3 


11.8 
16.1 
16.1 

11.9 
11.1 
10.2 
10.6 
12.2 
11.0 

10.6 

10.0 

12.4 
8.5 

6.4 

10.5 
8.4 
9.2 
8.6 

10.7 
2.3 

6.9 
6.2 
10.7 
13.4 


% 

5.0 
7.2 

7.4 

2.1 
1.7 
1.8 
1.4 
1.0 
1.4 

1.7 

1.4 

1.8 
1.1 

1.2 

5.4 
4.7 
1.9 
0.6 
5.0 
0.9 

0.3 
0.6 
8.8 
0.9 


59.7 
66.6 
65 2 

71.9 
73.8 
74.1 
76.0 
77.6 
75.9 

72.5 

75.8 

69.8 
77.5 

77.5 

69.6 
74.0 
74.4 
79.2 
77.3 
22.2 

80.0 
85.7 
71.4 
74.1 


% 

9.5 
0.9 
1.3 

1.8 
1.7 
1.8 
2.1 
1.7 
0.4 

1.7 

2.7 
0.3 

0.4 

2.1 

1.0 
0.4 
1.4 

0.5 


% 

3.0 
1.9 
1.8 

1.8 
1.6 
1.5 
1.8 
1.9 
0.4 

1.9 

1.7 

2.4 
1.1 

0.9 

1,5 
1.3 
1.0 
0.3 
1.3 
0.5 

0.5 
0.4 
1.8 
1.3 


% 


% 


% 


% 


Calories 


i2.5 
12.5 


6.5 
6.7 


65.5 
64.5 


1.4 
1.4 


1767 
1759 


Cracked wheat 

Rolled, steam cooked 

Shredded wheat 

Crumbed and malted 
Farina 


8.1 

8.5 
7.7 
9.1 
8.9 


1.5 
1.6 
1.3 
0.9 
1.3 


68.7 
70.7 
71.1 
73.7 
72.9 


1.2 
1.1 
1.4 
1.4 
0.3 


1501 
1541 
1621 
1623 
1609 


RYE: 

Whole grain 




Flaked, to be eaten 


7.8 


1.3 


71.1 


1.3 


1526 


BARLEY: 




Pearled barley. 

BUCKWHEAT: 

Flom- 


6.6 
5.0 


1.0 
1.1 


73.0 
73.1 


0.8 
0.7 


1514 
1471 


CORN: 




Cornmeal, unbolted. 
Corn meal, bolted. . . 


6.2 
6.8 
6.4 
7.9 
1.7 

5.8 
5.1 
9.1 
11.6 


4.2 
1.7 
0.5 
4.5 
0.8 

0.3 
0.6 
7.9 
0.8 


73.2 
74.6 
78.7 
77.8 
21.8 

78.4 
84.0 
70.5 
72.2 


1.0 
0.8 
0.2 
1.0 
0.4 

0.4 
0.3 
1.4 
1.0 


1728 
1662 
1671 


Pop corn, popped . . . 
Hulled corn 


1882 
492 


RICEf 

Whole rice, polished. 
Puffed rice 


1546 
1639 




1905 


Macaroni 


1660 



[Lesson 26B] 



CORN CAKES 



[Page 65] 




CORN CAKE 



Scant 1% tbsp. baking powder 
Yo tsp. salt 
1 c. milk 



1 to 3 tbsp. melted butter 



% c. cornmeal 
1 c. flour 
Yi c. sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg well beaten, milk and the melted butter. 
Bake in a shallow buttered pan in a hot oven 20 minutes or more. 



Beat. 



1 c. corn meal 
1 c. white flour 
Yi tsp. salt 



RICH CORN CAKE 

1/4 c. sugar 

4 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 



1 c. milk 

1/4 c. melted butter 



Mix and bake according to first recipe. 



SOUR CREAM CORN CAKE 

% c. corn meal 1 tbsp. sugar 1 c. sour cream 

% c. flour i/o tsp. salt 1 egg 

Y2 tsp. soda 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add well beaten egg and cream. Bake in a well buttered 
pan 20 to 30 minutes. 



SOUR MILK CORN CAKE 

1 c. corn meal 

1 c. flour 

2 tbsp. sugar 

Combine ingredients and bake according to Recipe 1. 



1/3 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. soda 
1 well beaten egg 



IY2 c. thick sour milk 
2 tbsp. butter (melted) 



VIRGINIA PONE 

1 c. white corn meal IY2 tsp. salt 2 c. milk 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 c. hot boiled hominy 2 eggs 

Add butter and milk to hominy and cool. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; stir into the hominy and add the beaten eggs. 
Put into a buttered earthen dish and bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. 
Cut in triangular pieces and serve. 



[Page 66] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCTENCE [Lesson 27A] 

APPROXIMATE MEASURE OF ONE POUND 

4 cups of flour 2% cups powdered sugar 

4 cups entire wheat flour S^A cups confectioners' sugar 

2% cups com meal 2 cups milk 

2% cups oat meal 2 cups butter 

6 cups rolled oats 2 cups finely chopped suet 

41/3 cups rye meal 2 cups chopped meat 

2 cups rice 3 cups raisins 

2 cups granulated sugar 41/3 cups coffee 

2% cups brown sugar 9 medium sized eggs 

If tbsp. be substituted for cups the weight will be about one ounce. 

TIME TABLE FOR BAKING BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

MuflBns, 12 to 25 minutes Raised biscuit, 12 to 30 minutes 

Gingerbread, 25 to 45 minutes Loaf Cake, 40 to 60 minutes 

B. P. Biscuits, 12 to 15 minutes White bread, 45 to 60 minutes 

Cookies, 6 to 15 minutes Rye bread, 60 minutes 

Layer Cake, 12 to 20 minutes Beaten bread, 45 to 60 minutes 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 27B] 



GINGERBREAD 



[Page 67] 




HOT WATER GINGERBREAD 



V. 



2 to 2% c. flour 
1 tsp. soda 
1^2 tsp. ginger 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, 
and beat vigorously. Pour into a greased pan, or muffin tins, and bake 
moderate oven. One well-beaten egg may be added to the liquids. 



boiling water 



Add water to molasses. 



% tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. melted butter 

Combine mixtures. Add butter 
5 minutes in a 



SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD 



% tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. to Yi c. melted butter 



1 tsp. soda % c. molasses 

1/2 c. sour milk 2 c. flour 

2 tsp. ginger 

Mix soda with sour milk, and add molasses. Sift remaining dry ingredients. Combine 
mixtures. Add butter and beat vigorously. Pour into greased pan, and bake 25 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 



SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD 



% c. thick sour cream 2 eggs 

% c. molasses 2 c. flour 

V2 c. granulated sugar % tsp. soda 

Beat together the eggs, sugar and molasses. Add 
the remaining half and add to the liquids. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Combine mix- 
tures and beat until smooth. Pour into a greased tin, and bake 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 



1 tsp. ginger 

2 tsp. cinnamon 

the cream. Dissolve the soda in 



FAIRY GINGERBREAD 



1/2 c. butter Vo c'. milk 2 tsp. ginger 

1 c. light brown sugar lYs c. bread flour 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and milk very slowly. Mix and sift the flour and 
ginger. Combine mixtures and mix with a knife until smooth. Spread very thinly on a 
buttered inverted pan or on a baking sheet. Bake in a moderate oven. Cut in squares 
before removing from pan. 

NOTE. — Mixtures containing a large amount of molasses or sugar burn easily and should 
be baked in a moderate oven. 



[Page 68] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 28 A] 

CAKE 

Cake may be divided into Two Classes: 

Without Butter. — Example: Sponge Cake, Angels Food, Sunshine Cake. 

With Butter. — Example: Cup and Pound Cake. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

See that the fire is right. 

Have materials and utensils ready, including a plate on which to lay sticky spoons, etc. 

Butter the pans; buttered paper may be used to line the pans or the pans may be but- 
tered and then sprinkled with flour. 

Measure dry ingredients, then liquid. 

Cream the butter with a wooden spoon in an earthen bowl which may be warmed 
slightly. 

Beat the yolks with a Dover egg-beater. 

Beat the whites with a spider-web or a Dover egg-beater. 

Fill pans two- thirds full with the cake mixture. 

Sponge cake requires a more moderate oven than cake made with butter. 

Cake is done when it shrinks from the sides of the pan, or when a clean broom straw 
put into the center comes out clean, or when pressed lightly with tip of finger the cake 
springs back into place, 

TESTS FOR TEMPERATURE OF OVEN 

If a piece of letter paper turns a deep yellow in 5 minutes, the oven is right for cake 
made with butter. 

The same test may be used for sponge cake, the paper turning a light yellow in 5 minutes. 
The time may be divided into four periods: 

1. Rise and not brown. 

2. Continue to rise and brown in spots. 

3. Light brown. 

4. Deeper brown and shrink from sides of pan. 

TO REMOVE CAKES FROM PANS 

After allowing the baked cake to remain in the pan about 3 minutes, invert pans, on a 
board covered with a piece of old linen. 

If cake sticks to the pan, place a damp cloth on the bottom of pan for a few minutes. 

NOTE — If bread flour is used in place of pastry flour, take 2 tbsp. less for each cup. 

Cover baking powder can, sugar jar, flour bin, etc., as soon as you have measured the 
necessary quantities. 

NOTE 



[Lesson 28B] CAKES [Page 




QUICK CAKE 

y-2 c. soft butter 1% c. bread flour A 

IV3 c. brown sugar 3 tsp, baking powder f 

2 eggs 1/0 tsp. cinnamon | "^'^ ^"^ ^i^* 

% c. milk y<2, tsp. nutmeg ' 14 lb. dates or % c. raisins 

Put ingredients in bowl in order given and do not stir until all have been added. 

Beat for three minutes. Bake in a buttered or greased pan from 35 to 45 minutes. May be 
baked in muffin tins. 



CREAM CAKES 

2 eggs 1% c. flour 14 tsp. mace 

1 c. sugar y^ tsp. salt % tsp. ginger 

% c. cream 14 tsp. cinnamon 2% tsp. baking powder 

Drop unbeaten contents of eggs into a bowl, add the sugar and cream, beat vigor- 
ously. Mix and sift remaining dry ingredients, add to the first mixture, beat until well 
mixed. Bake in a shallow pan or in small muffin tins. 

NUT LOAF CAKE 

Vo c. butter 1% c. flour 1 c. nut meat 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder % tsp. vanilla 

% c. milk 3 egg whites (large) 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, stirring until creamy between each addition. 
Mix and sift the flour and baking powder, add half of it and the milk, stir until thoroly 
blended; add the remaining flour, nut meat and vanilla, beat until thoroly mixed. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in a buttered loaf tin for about 40 minutes. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE 

I y^ c. butter 1 tsp. vanilla 2 squares chocolate (melted) 

I 1% c. sugar 2 c. flour and mixed with Vs c. boil- 

j 4 eggs 4 tsp. baking powder ing water 

I % c. milk 14 tsp. salt 

i Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, add well beaten eggs, measure, mix and 

{ sift the flour, baking powder and salt, add % of it and the milk, beat until thoroly mixed. 
j Add the remaining flour, chocolate mixture, and vanilla. Beat thoroly until well mixed. 
[ Bake in a buttered and paper lined large loaf in a tin about 45 minutes or until thoroly baked. 

\ 



[Page 70] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 29A] 

COMPARATIVE COST OF FOODS USED IN BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

BOUGHT IN SMALL AND LARGE QUANTITIES 



Article 



Price for small quantity 



Price for large quantity 



Bread flour 05c. 

Pastry flour 09c. 

Whole wheat flour 04c. 

Graham flour 04c. 

Corn meal 15c. 

Oat meal 02c. 

Rice 05c. 

Cornstarch OSc. 

Soda OSc. 

Baking powder .15c. 

Salt ..05c. 

Sugar 06c. 

Brown sugar 06c. 

Powdered sugar 10c. 

Loaf sugar 10c. 

Butter 20c. 

Lard 10c. 

Cottolene 30c. 

Butterine 14c. 

Oleomargarine 14c. 

Eggs 16c. 

Milk 06c. 

Coff'ee cream 20c. 

Whipping cream 40c. 

Cloves, ground or whole 40c. 

Ginger 40c. 

Cinnamon, grd. or whole 40c. 

Vanilla 35c. 

Molasses 25c. 



per lb 85c. per 24i^ lb. sack 

per lb 25c. per 3 lb. pkg. 

per lb 35c. per 10 lb. sack 



35c. per 10 lb. sack 
35c. per 10 lb. sack 
10c. per iy2 lb. pkg. 



10c. per lb. 

25c. to 40c. per lb. 



per lb 

per 3 lb. sack . . . 
per lb. in bulk. . 
to 12c. per lb. . . . 
to 10c. per lb. pkg 
per I/O lb. pkg. . . 
to 25c. per i/o lb 

per 3 lb. sack 

per lb $1.40 per 25 1 

per lb $1.40 per 25 1 

per lb 25c. per 3 lbs 

per lb 25c. per 3 lbs 

to 38c. per lb. 
to 18c. per lb. 
per 3 lbs. 
to 25c. per lb. 
to 25c. per lb. 
to 40c. per doz. 
to 8c. per qt. 
per qt. 
per qt. 
per lb. 
per lb. 
per lb. 

per 2 oz 65c. per 4 oz. 

per qt. 



NOTES: 



[Lesson 29B] 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT MIXTURES 



[Page 71] 




2 c. flour 

4 tsp, baking powder 



% tsp. salt 

1 to 2 tbsp. shortening 



About % c. milk 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Rub in shortening with tips of fingers, or chop in with a 
knife. Add milk gradually to make a soft dough. Use a knife in mixing. Toss on a well- 
tloured board. Pat and roll out to one incli thickness. Ciit with a biscuit cutter dipped 
in flour. Place close together on a greased pan. Bake in a hot oven for 10 to 15 minutes. 

DUMPLINGS FOR STEWS 

Follow the directions for biscuits, using only 2 tsp, shortening. Place the dough by 
spoonfuls on the top of a boiling stew. Ck)ver and boil 12 minutes without removing the 
cover. 

QUICK BISCUITS 

Add to the ingredients for biscuits enough more milk to make a thick batter (about 
2 tbsp.) ; drop by spoonfuls onto a well greased pan, half an inch apart. The mixture 
should not be soft enough to spread. Bake in a hot oven. 

TEA CAKES 

Add to the dry ingredients for biscuits 4 tbsp. of sugar. Mix and beat. Bake in 
greased muffin tins 25 to 30 minutes. One egg may be added, using 2 tbsp. less milk. 

BLUEBERRY CAKES 

Make as directed for tea cakes, adding 1 c. of blueberries to the dry ingredients. 



PIN WHEEL BISCUIT 



Vs e. stoned raisins, finely chopped 
2 tbsp. citron, finely chopped 
1/^ tsp. cinnamon 



2 c. flour % tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. butter 

4 tsp. baking powder % c. milk 

Mix as baking powder biscuit mixture. Roll to i/l-inch thickness, brush with melted 
butter and sprinkle with fruit, sugar and cinnamon. Roll like jelly roll; cut off pieces 
% inch thick. Place pieces on a buttered tin and bake in a hot oven about 15 minutes. 



[Page 72] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 30A] 

YEAST 

YEAST is a small microscopic plant, which grows by budding. 

Yeast grows in sprouting grains, finding in them favorable soil for growth. 

The yeast plants are obtained from distilleries (explain). 

Three kinds of yeast are used in bread-making: Liquid, Dry and Compressed. 

Compressed yeast is probably the most frequently used. 

In Compressed yeast the plants are mixed with potato starch and are pressed into cakes. 
These are cut into smaller cakes and are wrapped in tin foil to keep them moist and clean. 

Food, air, heat and moisture are necessary for the growth of the yeast plant. Oxygen, 
some nitrogenous matter, salts or mineral matter and carbohydrates, especially sugary sub- 
stances, are needed for its growth. The most favorable temperature is between 70 deg. and 
90 deg. F. Cold checks the growth, while heat (130 deg. F. or more) will kill the plant. 

EXPERIMENTS 

Mix 2 tbsp. flour, l^^ tbsp. sugar and 1 yeast cake which has been mixed with V^ c. 
cold water. Pour this into three tumblers. A, B, and C. 

No. I. To A add i/^ c. boiling water. Let stand 15 minutes. Note results. 

No. II. To B add VL' c- luke warm water. Let stand 15 minutes in a warm place. 
Note results. 

No. III. To C add % c. cold water. Let stand 15 minutes in a cold place (32 deg. F.). 
Note results. 

No. IV. Put C aside and let stand in a warm place one hour. Note results. 

When yeast is mixed with flour and a lukewarm liquid and kept in a warm place the 
action of the yeast changes the starch of the flour into sugar and then into alcohol and 
carbon dioxide.' This process is known as FERMENTATION. 

The production of this carbon dioxide and alcohol is gradual, and as it forms, the dough 
is filled with bubbles (rises), and the elastic gluten of the flour gives to the dough its power 
to stretch and rise, as the gas expands, making the dough light and porous. 

If fermentation is allowed to continue long, or at too high a temperature, so much alcohol 
is formed that the yeast stops growing and bacteria begin to grow; the alcohol unites with 
oxygen plus bacteria and the dough becomes sour. 

When bread is baked the yeast plants are killed, the alcohol and carbon dioxide are 
driven off, the starch is cooked and a delicious flavor is developed. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson SOB] 



SHORT-CAKE MIXTURES 



[Page 73] 




SHORT CAKE NO. 1 

2 c. flour 2 tbsp. sugar 1/4 c. shortening 

4 tsp, B. P. % tsp. salt About % c. milk 

Mix as B. P. biscuit dough (in Lesson 29B). Divide the dough into two equal parts. 
Shape one to fit a shallow buttered tin. Brush the top of the dough with melted butter, 
shape and place the second portion of dough over the first. Bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. 
Split. Put crushed and sweetened fruit on one half. Place the other half over it. More fruit 
may be placed on top. Strawberries, peaches, or stewed fruit may be used. Serve with 
whipped cream, if liked. 



2 c. flour 
4 tsp. B. P. 



SHORT CAKE NO. 2 

1/2 tsp. salt 
14 c. sugar 
Yi c. butter 



1 egg 

About V3 c. milk 



Mix same as Short Cake No. 1, adding the well beaten egg to the milk. 

APPLE JOHN 

Put stewed apple or other fruit sweetened and seasoned into a buttered pudding dish. 
Cover the fruit with a short cake dough mixture and bake in a hot oven 20 to 30 
minutes. 

Invert onto the serving dish, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Serve. 



FRUIT DUMPLINGS 

Make a dough according to Short Cake Recipe No. 1 or 2, using a little less milk. Pat 
and roll it ^4 in. thick. Cut into squares large enough to cover an apple or other fruit, 
which should have been steamed ten minutes if canned fruit is not used. Place fruit in the 
middle of the square piece of dough, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon or nutmeg. Moisten the 
edges of the dough with cold water, and fold so that the corners will meet in the center. 
Press edges together gently. Place on a greased pan and bake in a rather hot oven until the 
crust and fruit are cooked. These may be steamed. Serve with lemon sauce (Lesson 9B). 



[Page 74] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 31A] 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING BREAD 

THAT REQUIRES NO KNEADING 

The liquids used may be water, potato-water, milk, or milk and water. 

Milk makes a more tender loaf of bread than water. 

Yeast acts more quickly if a little sugar or glucose is added at first. 

Salt and fats hinder the growth of yeast. 

The water should be boiled. The milk should be scalded. 

The hot liquids should be added to the salt, sweetening and shortening. This should be 
cooled before the yeast mixture is added. 

One-quarter yeast cake is usually allowed to 1 pt. liquid if mixture is to rise over night. 

One-half yeast cake is usually allowed to 1 pt. liquid if mixture is set in the morning. 

One yeast cake is usually allowed to 1 pt. liquid if mixture is set in the morning and 
a quick process is required. 

The mixture should be beaten thoroly to mix the ingredients and to enclose air. 

The mixture should be covered to prevent a crust from forming. It should be put into a 
warm place, about 70 deg., imtil enough gas is formed to make it rise to double its bulk. 
It should be beaten the second time to distribute the gas bubbles evenly, and to make a 
fine-grained loaf. Well greased pans should be half filled with the mixture. 

The mixture should rise in the pan imtil double its bulk and no more, and then be baked 
in a hot oven 45 minutes, or until brown on all sides, and until a hollow sound can be pro- 
duced when the loaf is tapped with the finger. In baking a temperature of 400 to 450 deg. 
is required. 

When baked, loaves should be placed so that air can circulate freely around them until 
cooled. They should be put away unwrapped in a tin box or stone jar. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 31B] 



BREAD MAKING 



[Page 75] 




WHOLE WHEAT BREAD NO 1 



2 c. boiling water, or 

1 c. scalded milk and 1 c. boiling water 
2 tbsp. butter 
1 tsp. salt 
1/4 c. sugar, or 

Vq c. molasses 



V4 yeast cake, mixed with 

2 tbsp. lukewarm water (over night) or 
1 yeast cake mixed with i/4 c. lukewarm 
water if mixed in the morning. 

1% c. white flour 

3% c. whole wheat flour 



Add salt, butter and sweetening to the hot liquid; cool, and when lukewarm add the yeast 
cake mixture and flour. Beat well, cover and let rise to double its bulk. Again beat vigor- 
ously, half filled greased bread pans with the mixture. Let rise until double its bulk. Bake 
in a hot oven 45 minutes. This mixture may be baked in gem pans. 



WHOLE WHEAT BREAD NO. 2 

2 c. scalded milk 1 yeast cake mixed with 

1/4 c. sugar or 1/3 c. molasses Vi c. lukewarm water 

1 tsp. salt 42/3 c. coarse whole wheat flour 

Follow directions for Whole Wheat Bread No. 1. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

21/0 c. hot liquid (milk, water or i/4 yeast cake mixed with % c. luke- 

water and milk) warm liquid 

1/3 c. molasses 3 c. flour 

IV2 tsp. salt 3 c. graham flour 

Follow directions for Whole Wheat Flour. 

ROLLED OATS BREAD 

2c. boiling water V2 yeast cake mixed with 

y2 c. molasses V2 c. lukewarm water 

i/i tbsp. salt 1 c. rolled oats 

1 tbsp. butter 4^^ c. flour 

Add boiling water to oats and let stand 1 hour. Add molasses, salt, butter, yeast 
cake mixture and flour. Let rise to double its bulk, beat thoroly, turn into buttered bread 
pans; let rise again and bake 45 minutes. 



YEAST MUFFINS 

^ yeast cake mixed with 14 cup luke- 
warm water 
1 egg, beaten 
4 c. flour 



1 c. scalded milk 

1 c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. butter 
1 tsp. salt 
1/4 c. sugar 

Add salt, butter and sugar to the hot liquid. When lukewarm, add the yeast mixture. 
Add the beaten egg and the flour. Beat thoroly. Cover and let rise over night (if 14 yeast 
cake is used) or until double its bulk. Again beat and half fill muffin pans. Let rise again 
until pans are full. Bake in a hot oven 20 to 30 minutes. 



[Page 76] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 32A] 

SANDWICHES 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Formerly a sandwich meant two slices of bread with meat between. Now the term 
sandwich is applied to many different kinds of encased dainties. 

The Bread used for making Sandwiches should be at least a day old, that it may bo 
cut properly. The bread may be white or brown; ex., white, whole wheat, rye, oatmeal 
or steamed brown bread. 

The butter should be creamed, so that it may be spread easily. Cream the butter witli 
a wooden spoon. 

A very sharp knife should be used, so that the slices may be cut as thinly and evenly 
as possible. 

Cut end slice from bread. Spread end of loaf with butter. Cut slice. Repeat, until the 
required number of slices have been cut. 

Spread half the number of slices with the mixture used for filling; cover with the 
remaining slices and cut in squares, oblongs, triangles, etc. 

If fancy cutters are used, shape before spreading, that no butter may be wasted. 

If the sandwiches are prepared several hours before they are served, they may be kept 
fresh and moist by wrapping them in -a dampened napkin, and leaving them in a cool place. 
Parafl&n paper is often used for the same purpose. , 

Chopped eggs, chicken, veal, celery, olives or nuts mixed with salad dressing, make very 
good filling for sandwiches. 

Salted meats make good filling for sandwiches. 

The meat may be sliced, when it should be cut across the grain and in as thin slices 



The meat may be chopped. The addition of a little mustard, Worcestershire or horse- 
radish sauce is good with beef or tongue. Capers, catsup, mint or tomato sauce is good 
with Iamb. 

Chopped peppers, celery salt, or finely chopped celery is good with chicken or veal. 

Lemon juice, onion juice or chopped parsley is good with fish. 

Cress, cabbage, cucumbers, pimentoes or olives may be chopped and added to a salad 
dressing alone or with meat for filling. 

Uncooked fruit fillings may be used. Dates or figs with nuts make very good sand- 
wich filling. 

Garnish the serving dish with parsley, lemon, celery tips, water cress, nasturtium leaves 
and blossoms, etc. 

Coffee is the most desirable beverage to serve with sandwiches, then tea, and lastly 
cocoa, or chocolate, which should only be served with the dainty sweet sandwiches. 




[Lesson 32B] SANDWICHES [Page 77] 




LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Put fresh, clean, crisp lettuce leaves between buttered slices of graham, brown or white 
bread, having a tsp. of Mayonnaise on each leaf. 



CREAM CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Spread buttered brown or graham bread with cream cheese, wiiich has been mixed with 
butter or cream and chopped olives, pimentoes or nuts, and put a lettuce leaf that has been 
dipped in French Dressing between the slices. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES 

Remove stems and finely chop figs; add a small quantity of water, cook in a double boiler 
until a paste is formed, then add a few drops of lemon juice. Cool mixture and spread on 
thin slices of buttered bread. Sprinkle with chopped peanuts, walnuts or pecans, and cover 
with slices of buttered bread. 

Dates and nuts chopped fine and mixed may be used. 



HAM AND EGG SANDWICHES 

Finely chop the ham and hard cooked eggs, mix with a salad dressing and put between 
buttered slices of bread. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Chop hard cooked eggs. Mix them with salad dressing and spread between buttered 
slices of bread. 

SLICED MEAT SANDWICHES 

Put thin slices of meat, which have been cut across the grain, into slices of buttered 
bread; arrange thin slices of pickles, olives, red or green pepper on the meat, cover with a 
slice of buttered bread. 

SALMON SANDWICHES 

Put flaked salmon, mixed with finely chopped pickles and seasoned with salt and pepper, 
between slices of buttered bread. Mayonnaise dressing may be added to the filling. 



[Page 78] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 33A] 

TEST QUESTIONS 



[Lesson 33B] PRACTICE TEST [Page 79] 




BREAKFAST 

Menu I 

Baked Apple 

Corn Meal Mush Sugar and Cream 

Creamed Chipped Beef on Toast 

Whole Wheat Bread and Butter 

Cocoa 



Menu II 

Cooked Cereal with Dates 
Ham Omelet with Green Pepper Rings Creamed Potatoes 

White Muffins 
Ck>coa 



COST OF PREPARING ABOVE BREAKFAST FOR SIX PERSONS 
Material Quantity . Cost 



[Page 80] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES 0^^- DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES— SEMESTER II 



LESSON 19B 



POTATO RECIPES 



% potato 

Boil, rice and mash 

1 potato 

Bake and prepare puffs 



To 1 potato use— 

1 tsp. butter 

2 tsp. hot milk 
Ye tsp. salt 

Few grains pepper 



OATMEAL MUSH 

Vi c. oatmeal 

% c. boiling water 

Vi tsp. salt 



LESSON 20B 
COOKED APPLE 

1 apple 

^ c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. sugar 



LESSON 21B 



WHEATENA WITH DATES 

3 tbsp. wheatena 

1 tbsp. cold water 
% c. boiling water 

(enough) 
^ tsp. salt 

2 dates, cut in pieces 



RICE PUDDING 

4 tbsp. steamed rice 
Vi yolk, 1/4 beaten white 
1 tbsp. milk 
1 tbsp. sugar 
1/4 apple, or Vg slice pine- 
apple, or 4 raisins 



FLOATING ISLAND 

Follow recipe for Custard 
Sauce. 
(Lesson 14B) 



PINOCHE 



1 c. brown sugar 

(packed) 
1/4 c. milk 
1 tbsp. butter 
8 walnuts 
Few drops vanilla 



LESSON 22B 

SEA FOAM 

1 c. sugar 
14 c. boiling water 
1/4 c. corn syrup 
1/3 c. nut meats 
1 white of egg 
14 tsp. vanilla 



CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

1 c. sugar 
Vs c. milk 
1 tsp. butter 
% sq. chocolate 
14 tsp. vanilla 



PEANUT CANDY 

1 c. sugar 



MACARONI WITH CHEESE 



2 sticks macaroni 
2 c. boiling water 



11/4 c. peanuts 

LESSON 23B 



14 tsp. salt 

1 or 2 tsp. grated cheese 



Few grs. salt 



Sauce to moisten 
2 tbsp. crumbs 



LESSON 24B 



WHOLE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 



1 tbsp. entire wheat flour 

2 tbsp. flour 
1/0 tsp. B. P. 
Few grs, salt 



1 tbsp. sugar 

2 tbsp.. beaten egg 
2 tbsp. milk 

% tbsp. melted butter 



BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

3 tbsp. STALE crumbs 

3 tbsp. scalded milk 

1 tsp. butter 

1/2 tsp. B. P. 

1 tbsp. beaten egg 

1 tbsp. flour 

1-16 tsp. salt 



SEMESTER II 



[Page 81] 



PLAIN MUFFINS 



LESSON 25B 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 





% c. flour 6 tbsp. graham flour 
1/2 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. flour 
1 tsp. B. P. 1 tbsp. sugar 
Vs tsp. salt 1 tsp. B. P. 

1 tbsp. beaten egg 14 tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. milk 1 tbsp. beaten egg 

2 tsp. melted butter 4 tbsp. milk 

2 tsp. melted butter 




LESSON 26B 


CORN CAKE 




3 tbsp. corn meal 1 tsp. B. P. 1 tbap. egg 

4 tbsp. flour Vs tsp. salt 2 tsp. melted butter 
1 tbsp. sugar ^ c. or 4 tbsp. milk 




LESSON 27B 


HOT WATER GINGERBREAD 


2 tbsp. molasses Vs tbsp. soda 1 tsp. butter 

1 tbsp. boiling water Vb tsp. ginger 1 tsp. beaten egg 

iVi tbsp. flour -^ tsp. salt 




LESSON 29B 


B. P. BISCUITS 




1/3 c. flour 
% tsp. B. P. 
Ve tsp. salt 


1 tsp. butter Demonstrate Pin ^Vheel 
21/0 tbsp. milk (about) Biscuits 




LESSON 30B LESSON 31B 


SHORT CAKE NO. 2 BEATEN BREAD 




1/3 c. flour 2 tbsp. milk 

% tsp. B. P. 2 tbsp. water 

2 tsp. sugar 1 tsp. butter 

1-12 tsp. salt Ve tsp. salt 

2 tsp. butter 2 tsp. (level) molasses 

2 tsp. egg 3 tbsp. flour 

About 2 tbsp. milk V2 c. whole wheat flour 

1 yeast cake mixed with 
Enough for 1 layer 2 tbsp. of the liquid given above. 




LESSON 32B 


SANDWICHES 




1 slice bread 1 tbsp. filUng Three or four kinds of 
Cut in fancy shapes 1 tsp. butter filling 



NOTES: 



[Page 82] BASIC PRINarLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 83] 



[Page 84] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 85] 



[Page 86] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 87] 



[Page 88] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCTENCE 



NOTES: [Page 89] 



[Page 90] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 91] 



[Page 92] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 93] 



[Page 94] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 95] 



[Page 96] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 97] 



[Page 98] BASIC PRIXCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCTENCE [Lesson 34A] 

ACID AND SALT SUPPLYING FOODS 

Fruit and Vegetables are the principal sources of acid and salt supplying foods. They are 
also found in fish, meat and cereals. 

The human body includes compounds of lime, potassium, sodium, iron and common salt, 
the latter of which is found in every part of the body, except the enamel of the teeth. 

Foods containing mineral matter are necessary for the formation of the bones, teeth, 
nails, hair, and also to aid digestion, circulation, etc. 

Phosphorus and lime, which are so necessary in the formation of bones and teeth, are 
found abundantly in the cereals. 

The cereals should, therefore, form an important food in the diet of growing children. 

FRUITS 

Fruits are seed vessels of plants. They contain a large amount of water, cellulose, sugar, 
acids and salts. They not only refresh and cool the system, but stimulate the appetite and 
act as blood purifiers. 

The cellulose helps to carry off waste matter. The acids destroy germs in the body. 
People who eat a large amount of fruit are seldom ill. 

Bananas, dates and figs are rich in sugary and starchy substances and form the staple 
food in the countries where they grow. 

Prunes are dried plums. Raisins are dried grapes. 

Eat only sound, ripe fruit. Unripe fruit, or fruit that has been kept a little too long, 
may be cooked to make it safe for eating. 

Do not eat acid fraits with milk or cream. 

VEGETABLES. See Lesson 4B. 
GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING AND PRESERVING FRUIT 

Select fresh, firm and not over-ripe fruit. Prepare the fruit according to kind; remove 
stems, pare, peel, stone or core. 

For canning fruit allow i-, of the weight of the fruit in sugar and three cups of water to 
each pound of sugar. Boil the water and siigar five minutes to make a thin syrup; then cook 
a small quantity of the fruit at a time in the syrup imtil soft. Pack the fruit closely in 
hot sterilized fruit jars (see Lesson 5B), and pour on enough syrup to overflow jars. Use the 
blade of a silver knife to push fmit away from jar to let out the air bubbles. Put on ster- 
ilized covers and fasten securely. 

Preserving Fruit, as ordinarily used, means the cooking of fruit with from ^4 to its own 
weight of sugar with little or no water used, according to the fruit. 

NOTE 

Fruits should be cooked in granite, earthen-ware, or porcelain lined kettles, and silver, 
wooden or granite spoons used. If cooked in tin or iron-ware, poisonous substances may be 

formed. 



[Lesson 34B] 



CANNED FRUITS 



[Page 99] 



,C 




2 c. water 

3 lbs. peaches 



CANNED PEACHES 

1 lb. sugar 

8 cloves and few shavings lemon rind (if liked) 

Pour boiling water over peaches, allow them to stand just long enough to loosen th6 
skins, so they can be removed easily. 

Remove skins, cut in halves, and unless cooked at once, drop into enough cold water to 
cover, to prevent discoloration. Add a few peach stones to the boiling syrup. Cook the 
peaches in the syrup until soft, pack them closely in hot sterilized fruit jars, and pour over 
them the boiling syrup. Cover securely. 

Pears, cherries, apples, yellow tomatoes and plums may be canned like the peaches. 
Plums and tomatoes should be pierced with a needle to keep them from bursting. 



STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

strawberries 3 lbs. sugar 



c. water 



Pick over, wash, drain and hull the berries. Weigh. Boil the sugar and water 15 minutes 
to make a syrup. Fill sterilized jars with the berries, cover with the syrup. Let stand 15 
minutes. Add more fruit. Adjust rubbers and covers. Put on a rest, folded paper, or a 
folded cloth in a kettle of cold water. Heat water to boiling point, and cook slowly one hour. 
Screw on covers securely. 

Raspberries and Blackberries may be preserved in the same way. 



8 lbs. fruit 
5 c. vinegar 



SWEET PICKLED PEACHES 

Vi lb. ginger root 
4^^ lbs. sugar 



1 oz. stick cmnamon 
1/^ oz. whole cloves 



Prepare fruit as for canning. Boil the vinegar, add sugar and the seasonings (tied in a piece 
of cheese cloth) 10 minutes. Cook the peaches, a few at a time, in the syrup until soft. Put 
fruit into sterilized jars, fill to overflowing with syrup. Screw on covers securely. The ginger- 
root may be omitted. 

Pears, plums, apples, crab-apples or quinces may be prepared in the same way. 



SWEET WATER MELON PICKLES 

7 c. rind of melon 2 c. sugar Va cup stick cinnamon 

3 c. vinegar Vs cup cloves 

Cut rind in strips, remove the green and pink portions. Soak in alum water, allowing 
2 tsp. powdered alum to each qt. of water. Heat slowly to boiling point. Cook 10 minutes. 
Drain, cover with ice water, let stand 2 hrs., drain again. Boil the vinegar, sugar and season- 
ings (tied in cheese cloth) 10 minutes. Add the rind and cook until tender. Put in jars and 
cover with syrup. 



[Page 100] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 3 5 A] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

1. EGGS 

The eggs of many birds, both wild and domestic, are used for food, but the eggs of the 
domebtic hen are most comnionlv u«rd. 



SHELL- 

/I W /^ ^\ vvmte >^ 

-MEMBRANE IL 




MEMBRMEI 



A hen's egg consists of eight parts: 

1. SHELL (carbonate of lime). 

2. MEMBRANE I (which hes next to the shell). 

3. ^VHITE (albumen and water). 

4. MEMBRANE II (Which encloses the yolk). 

5. YOLK (oil, albumen, mineral matter and water). 

6. TWO SPIRAL CORDS (which hold the yolk in place). 

7. EMBRYO (the little mass which lies next to the yolk). 

8. AIR SPACE (which is between Membrane I and the round end of the shell). 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF EGGS 

Proteids 14.9 per cent Mineral matter 1. per cent 

Fat 10.6 per cent Water 73.5 per cent 

TYPICAL FOOD 

Eggs form a highly nutritious, concentrated food; and as they contain all the elements in 
the right proportion to support the body, they are classed as a typical food. 

They should be eaten in combination with foods that are rich in starch, such as bread, 
potatoes, rice, etc. The digestive organs will then have more to act upon, a certain amount 
of bulk being necessary. 

A pound of eggs (nine) is considered equivalent in nutritive value to a pound of beef. 
Eggs are cheap for the healthy person only when the cost does not exceed 16 cents per dozen. 

Digestion. — All proteids are acted upon by the rennin or pepsin ferments in the gastric 
juice of the stomach and the trypsin of the pancreatic juice in the small intestines. 

EXPERIMENTS WITH ALBUMEN 

Break an egg, separate the volk from the white. Divide the white into three portions 
(A, B, C). 

Ex. I. Half fill a glass with cold water, add A. Beat thoroly. Note results. 

Ex. II. Half fill a small saucepan with water; place over the fire and when the water 
boils, add B. Boil 2 minutes. Note results. 

Ex. III. Half fill a small saucepan with boiling water; add C. Place where it will 
neither simmer nor boil. Let stand 5 minutes. Note results. 

I. Cold water dissolves albumen. 

II. Heat coagulates albumen. Albumen cooked in boiling water is tough and homy. 

III. Albumen cooked in water below simmering point is jelly-like and tender. 
NOTE. — Change of albumen from a liquid to a solid state is called coagulation. 



tLesson 35B] 



COOKED EGGS 



[Page 101] 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKED EGGS 

Have ready a saucepan containing boiling water. A general rule is to allow one pint 
of water to two eggs, and an extra cupful for each additional egg. Place tiie eggs in the 
water \\ith a spoon and cover the saucepan. 



Place the eggs in a saueepai 
from 8 to 10 minutes. 



SOFT-COOKED EGGS 
containing boiling water, let them stand on back of range 



Place the eggs in a saucepan containin 
the range from 40 to 45 minutes. 



HARD-COOKED EGGS 

ing w.iter, and let ther 



stand on back of 



POACHED EGGS 

Prepare a slice of buttered toast for each egg, and keep it hot. Have ready a shallow 
greased pan containing boiling salted water to cover the eggs. Break each egg separately into 
a saucer and slip it gently into the water, being careful that the water does not reach the 
boiling point. Cook until the white is firm and a film forms over top of the yolk. Remove 
the eggs from the water with a skimmer or a griddle cake turner. Drain, trim off rough 
edges, and place each egg on a slice of toast. 




Scrambled Eggs with Bacon 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Two tbsp. butter; 5 eggs; % c. milk; 1^2 tsp. salt, and few grs. pepper. Beat eggs 
slightly, add salt, pepper and milk. Melt the butter in a frying pan, pour in the egg mix- 
ture, and cook slowly, continually scraping from bottom of pan. Wlien creamy, turn into 
a hot dish and serve at once. Serve with ham or bacon, etc. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves lengthwise or crosswise. Remove yolks and mash them. 
Add half the amount of deviled ham and enough melted butter to make of consistency to 
shape. Shape into balls and refill whites. Form remainder of mixture into a nest on circular 
pieces of bread toasted on top side. Arrange eggs on the nest. Pour over them white sauce 
and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake in moderate oven until brown. 



NOTES: 



[Page 102] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 36A] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

L EGGS— Continued 

Careful experiments show that albumen begins to coagulate at 134 deg. F., and becomes 
jelly-like at 160 deg. F. When cooked at 160 deg. to 185 deg. F. the albumen is rendered 
tender and readily digestible. Therefore, eggs should be cooked at a low temperature. 

WHY EGGS SPOIL 

Eggs spoil easily. Owing to the porous structure of the shell, bacteria enter, either 
from the place where the eggs have been lying, or by means of the air that rushes in as the 
water evaporates. These grow and decomposition takes place. 




FRESH EGGS 

1. A fresh egg has a thick, rough shell. 

2. A fresh egg sinks when dropped into a basin of cold water. (See illustration.) 

3. A fresh egg looks clear when held between the eye and a strong light. 

HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS 

When eggs come from the market they should be washed and kept in a cool, dry place. 
Eggs may be kept for a long time by packing them, small end down, in substances that will 
exclude air. Example: bran, salt, etc. The U. S. Department of Agriculture recommends 
liquid glass as a preservative. Put fresh eggs into stone crocks, cover with a mixture of one 
part liquid glass to nine parts water. Cover jars and keep in a cool place. 

When using several eggs, break each one separately into a cup. In this way a poor 
egg may be detected. The yolk may be kept by covering with cold water, or cover dish with 
dampened paper. 

HOW TO BREAK AN EGG 

Hold the egg in the left hand and crack the shell by striking it sharply with a knife. 
TO SEPARATE THE YOLK FROM THE WHITE 

Slip the yolk from one piece of shell to the other several times. Slip the white onto 
a plate or deep platter and drop the yolk into a bowl. 

FOR SLIGHTLY BEATEN EGG, yolk or white, use a fork. 

FOR A WELL BEATEN YOLK use a Dover egg-beater. 

FOR A WELL BEATEN WHITE use a wire whisk beater. 

DO NOT ALLOW THE BEATEN WHITE T.0 STAND, but use it immediately. 

Do not stir it after beating. 

NOTE. — Liquid glass may be purchased at any drug store. 



[Lesson 36B] 



BAKED CUSTARDS 



[Page 103] 



YELLOW CUSTARD 

4 e. scalded milk 6 eggs (if baked in a large i/4 tsp. salt 

4 eggs (if baked in individual mould) Few grains nutmeg or 

custard cups) ^j c. sugar cinnamon 

Beat eggs slightly; stir in the sugar and salt; add the scalded milk slowly to the yolk 
mixture; strain into buttered custard cups and sprinkle a little nutmeg on top of each. 
Set cups in a pan containing hot water, and bake in a moderate oven until custard is firm. 

If a clean cut can be made with a knife, the custard is done. 

Do not let the water in the pan reach the boiling point during baking. Why? 




Baked Caramel Custard with Whipped Cream 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

4 c. scalded milk % tsp. salt 1 c. sugar 

5 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

Melt the sugar to a light brown syrup in a saucepan over a hot fire. Add scalded milk 
and cook until free from lumps. Pour this into the slightly beaten eggs. Add salt and 
flavoring, then strain into a buttered mould. Bake as Yellow Custard. 

WHITE CUSTARD 

Whites of 4 eggs Vs tsp. salt i^ tsp. vanilla 

Yi c. sugar 2 c. scalded milk 

Beat the whites slightly; stir in the sugar and salt. Pour on the scalded milk, gradually. 
Add vanilla, strain into a buttered baking dish. Bake as Yellow Custard. Shredded cocoanut 
may be added. 



% sq. unsweetened chocolate 
V2 c. sugar 



CHOCOLATE CUSTARD 

2 tbsp. water 14 tsp. salt 

2 c. milk % tsp. vanilla 

3 eggs 

Scald the milk; melt the chocolate, stir in half the sugar, add the water and cook until 
smooth and glossy. Add the scalded milk to the chocolate mixture, stirring until well mixed. 
Beat the eggs slightly. Add remainder of sugar and the salt. Pour into it the chocolate and 
milk mixture; strain into buttered moulds. Bake as Yellow Custard. 



CHEESE CUSTARD 

1 c. milk 1 egg 2 tbsp. cheese % tsp. salt Spk. pepper 

Scald the mills:; stir into it the beaten egg, add the cheese, salt and pepper. Bake as 
Yellow Custard. 

CUSTARD BREAD PUDDING 

May be made by pouring any of these mixtures over buttered slices of toast and baked 
according to directions for Baked Yellow Custard. 



[Page 104] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson STA] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

MILK 

MILK is tlie natural food of tlio young of all tlie hit;liov animals. 

IT IS A PERFECT FOOD for the infant, as it contains all the food principles in the 
right proportion to fully nourish it. 

Milk should be the chief food for a child at least until the first teeth appear. 

[ Proteids 3.3 per cent 

I Carbohydrates (milk sugar, called lactose) 5. per cent 

COMPOSITION <! Fats 4. per cent 

i Mineral Matter 7 per cent 

[ Water 87. per cent 

The greatest benefit is obtained from milk when it is heated to blood heat and taken at 
regular intervals between meals, and then it is more easily digested when taken in sips. 
Small curds are then formed in the stomach. Large curds are formed when the milk is 
taken hurriedly in large quantities. 

Milk should be heated over hot water. Boiling milk coagulates the albumen and makes it 
less digestible. 

BUYING MILK 

Do not buy cheap milk. Good milk is a yellowish white liquid, and tastes slightly sweet. 
MILK undiluted with water clings to the glass. 

MILK should have no sediment and should not look blue around the edges. A good plan 
is to buy MILK in the evening and let it stand over night in order to let the cream rise. 
Skim and serve the cream with the cereal and cofi'ee for breakfast. Use the SKIMMED 
MILK for COOKING and DRINKING purposes. 

Milk quickly absorbs odors, and should be kept in clean vessels (glass or earthenware) 
in a cool, clean place. 

BACTERIA grow and multiply very rapidly in MILK; therefore the utmost cleanliness 
in handling is necessary. 

MILK PRODUCTS 

When milk stands, the fat globules rise to the top in the form of CREAM. Cream is 
put into a churn and shaken and the globules of cream gather together as BUTTER, and 
the liquid left is called BUTTERMILK. 

An acid added to milk coagulates the casein forming a CURD separating it from the 
liquid, then called WHEY. The CURD is then made into CHEESE which contains condensed 
nourishment (casein and fat of milk). 

CONDENSED MILK is prepared by evaporating milk to about i/^ to Vi of its volume. 

MILK is preserved by STERILIZATION, PASTEURIZATION and EXAPORATION. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 37B] 



t>ROTElDS— TISSUE BUILDEJRS 



[Page 105] 



PASTEURIZED MILK 

Sterilize bottles by putting tlioin edgewise into cold water; l>riiig slowly to boiling point 
and boil twenty minutes. Fill the sterilized bottles % full of milk and cork with cotton 
which has been baked in tlie oxen, or with sterilized rubber corks. Place bottles on a rest or 
on several thicknesses of pajx-r in a pan. Fill pan with enough cold water to reach as high 
as the milk in the bottles. Heat gradually to 160 deg. or until small bubbles appear in the 
milk next the glass. Keep at this temperature 40 minutes. Cork the bottles quickly and 
keep in a cold place. Do not remove corks until ready to use the milk. 

RENNET CUSTARD OR JUNKET 

1 qt. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 1 tbsp. liquid rennet or 1 junket 

4 tbsp. sugar i^ tsp. salt tablet dissolved in 1 tbsp. 

water 
Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the sugar, salt, and flavoring, stirring until the sugar 
is dissolved. Add the junket water and pour into the serving dish. Chill. Serve with plain 
or whipped cream. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

1 c. thick cream 3 tbsp. sugar % tsp. vanilla 

Pour the cream into a bowl and set in a pan of ice water. Whip with a wire whisk or 
Dover egg-beater until stifl' enough to hold its shape. Aild sugar and vanilla. Do not brat 
the cream too long. 




SOUR MILK CHEESE OR COTTAGE CHEESE 

1 qt. sour milk 1 tsp. butter 2 or 3 tbsp. cream 

1/4 tsp. salt 
Heat the milk slowly until the curd separates from the whey. Strain thru a piece of 
cheese cloth. Squeeze curd until quite dry. Put curd in a bowl and with a spoon or fork mix 
it with salt, butter and cream. Form into balls. These may be rolled in chopped parsley. 
The curd may be separated from the whey by adding one Rennet Tablet to a quart of milk 
heated to 100 deg. F. Then beat to separate curd, from whey. 



[Page 106] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE tLesson 38A] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 




Cheese straws 



CHEESE 

CHEESE is the curd of milk separated and pressed. 

Cheese is made chiefly from the milk of cows. Goats' milk is sometimes used. 

Cheese may be made from whole milk, to which cream has been added, or from skimmed 
milk. 

The curd may be separated by allowing the milk to stand until it is sour. It is then 
heated slightly and the curd separated from the whey. It may be prepared by the action 
of rennet. The curd is then pressed to remove the whey. After pressure the curd is then 
set aside and kept at a favorable temperature to ripen, the time required varying from a 
short time to three or four years. New flavors are developed and the texture altered during 
the ripening process. The ripening is due to bactria and moulds. 

Cheese made from full milk is half fat. Cheese made of skimmed milk is sometimes filled 
by the addition of cheap fat, lard, etc. 

Filled cheese is greasy when warmed, and does not keep well. 

Various brands of cheese take their names from the places where they are made. 

SKIM-MILK Cheese — Parmesan, Edam and Gruyen. 

MILK Cheese — Gorgonzola, Cheddar, Gloucester, Cheshire. 

MILK and CREAM Cheese — Double Gloucester and Stilton, Neufchatel, Cream Cheese, 
Camembert and Brie, Brick Cheese, Roquefort. 

ONE POUND of cheese contains as much nutriment as two pounds of meat. 

It is a highly concentrated proteid food, and therefore should be eaten in small quantities 
with carbohydrates. 

Cheese should be kept covered. 

Grate the cheese when it becomes hard and dry. 

Any kind of cheese is made more digestible by being finely divided or dissolved and mixed 
with other foods, as in cooking. 

Cheese may be added to several scalloped dishes (ex., macaroni and cheese) or used as 
flavoring for soups. 

Cheese is sufficiently cooked when melted; long cooking makes it tough. 

Soda added to dishes prepared with cheese makes the cheese dissolve more readily, thereby 
making it more digestible. When adding soda, use Vs tsp. to a cupful of grated cheese. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 38B] CHEESE DISHES [Page 107] 

TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Prepare toast; dip quickly in hot salted water. Spread slices with grated cheese; place 
in a pan in the oven long enough to melt the cheese. 
Put the slices together as sandwiches. 

WELSH RABBIT 

1/^ lb. cheese (grated) Few grs. cayenne 2 eggs 

1/4 tsp. mustard i/s tsp. soda 1 tbsp. butter 

1/4 tsp.salt y-2 c. milk Crackers or toast 

Mix the first six ingredients; cook over hot water until cheese is melted; pour this onto 
the slightly beaten eggs, add the butter and cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until 
thick and smooth. Pour over slices of toast or crackers and serve at once. 

CHEESE FONDUE 

1 c. scalded milk Few grains pepper 14 tsp. mustard (if liked) 

1 c. soft bread crumbs 1 tbsp. butter 3 eggs 

2 c. cheese (cut fine) i/4 tsp. salt 

Mix first seven ingredients, add well beaten yolks. Cut and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes, or 
until done. 

Baked in ramekin dishes — called cheese ramekins. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tbsp. butter Vs tsp. salt % c. grated or shaved cheese 

2 tbsp. flour Few grs. cayenne 2 eggs 

14 c. scalded milk 

Melt the butter, add flour, and when thoroly mixed add gradually the scalded milk, stir- 
ring all the time until smooth and thickened. Then add seasonings and cheese. Remove 
from fire, add the well beaten yolks, cool; fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Pour in a but- 
tered baking dish and bake about 30 minutes. Serve immediately. 




CHEESE STRAWS 

5 tbsp. flour 1/4 tsp. butter 14 c. grated cheese 

Vs tsp. salt % c. soft bread crumbs 2 tbsp. milk 

Few grs. cayenne or paprika 

Add salt and pepper to the flour, chop in the butter; add crumbs and grated cheese. 
Mix thoroly, then add milk to make a dough. Knead until smooth. Roll i/4 inch thick and 
cut in strips. Lay them on buttered paper in a pan and bake 10 minutes or until light brown 
in a moderate oven. Parmesan is good for cheese straws. 



[I*age 108] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF JDOMESTIC SCIENCE 



tLesson S9A] 



FREEZING 

ICE and SALT form a freezing mixture, several dej 



's below tlio freezing point of water. 



SALT melts the ice, witlidiawing Iieat from tlie contents of the can, and the melting 
ice dissolves the salt. The smaller the pieces of ice, the more quickly the change to liquid 
and the more salt used, the more quickly the mixture is frozen. If too much salt is used, 
however, the frozen mixture will be coarsely grained. Three parts ice to one part salt is the 
best projiortion for a smooth, line-grained cream. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 

Scald can, cover and dasher, then chill. 

Place the can of the freezer in the pail; put in the dasher, and pour in mixtiu'e to be 
frozen. Cover and adjust top. Turn crank to make sure can fits in socket. 

Fill the space between the can and pail with alternate layers of ice and salt, allowing 
three measures of ice to one of salt. 

The ice and salt should come a little higlier in the pail than mixture to be frozen. 

The can should not be more than % full, as the mixture expands in freezing. 

Turn the crank slowly at first, then turn crank more rapidly, adding more salt and ice if 
needed. 

Do not draw off the water, unless it stands so high that there is danger of it getting into 
the can. 

After freezing, draw off the water, remove dasher, and witii sjxxju push solidly. 

Put cork in opening of cover. 

Repack, using four parts of ice to one of salt. 

Place on top newspapers, an old blanket, or a piece of earjx't. 

HOW TO MAKE ICE CREAM OR ICES WITHOUT A FREEZER 

Cover bottom of pail with crushed ice. Put in baking powder can, tumbler, or lard pail 
containing mixture to be frozen, and surround with ice and salt. Turn can or tumbler with 
hand occasionally, and as soon as it begins to freeze, scrape frozen mixture from sides of 
can with a knife or spatula, and beat mixture with spoon, continuing until mixture is frozen. 




Ice Cream Served in Canteloupe 



[Lesson 39B] FROZEN MILK AND CREAM MIXTURES, ICE CREAM 



[Page 109] 




Vanilla Ice Cream with Sliced Peaches 

VANILLA ICE CREAM— I 
1 qt. thin cream % c. sugar li4 tbsp. vanilla 

Mix ingredients and freeze. 



1% c. scalded milk 
1 tbsp. flour 



VANILLA ICE CREAM— II 

% c. sugar 
i/s tsp. salt 



1 qt. thin cream 

2 tbsp. vanilla 



Mix flour, sugar and salt; add egg slightly beaten, and milk gradually. Cook in double 
boiler 20 minutes, stirring constantly at first. Should custard have curdled appearance, it will 
disappear in freezing. When cool, add flavoring and cream. Strain and freeze. Fresh fruit 
may be cut up and served with the ice cream. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Melt 4 oz. imsweetened chocolate; add 1 c. water and boil 5 min. Add this to Vanilla 
Ice Cream mixture. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 qt. thin cream 1 c. sugar 1 box strawberries 

Wash and hull berries. Sprinkle with sugar. Let stand one hour. Mash and rub thru 
strainer. Add the cream and freeze. 



CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Prepare same as Vanilla Ice Cream II, using 1% c. sugar. Caramelize 1 cupful of the 
sugar according to the directions for Caramel Custard in Lesson 36B. 



NUT ICE CREAM 

Add chopped nuts to Vanilla Ice Cream mixture. 



2 c. sugar 



MILK SHERBET 

14 c. lemon juice 



1 qt. milk 



Mix the sugar and strained lemon juice. Pour the milk into the freezer-can, add the 
lemon mixture. Stir thoroly, cover, freeze. 



[Page 110] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 40A] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

MEAT 
DEFINITION.— MEAT is the name given to tlie flesh of animals used for food. 

'Proteids 18.36 

Gelatin 1.64 

Extractives 1.90 

Fat 90 

Mineral 1.30 

Water 75.90 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION 
OF LEAN BEEF 



100.00 
KINDS 

Beef is the meat of the steer, ox or cow, and is the most nutritious of animal foods. 
The best beef is obtained from a steer four or five years old. 

Veal is the meat of a young calf killed when six or eight weeks old. The meat from a 
younger calf is unwholesome. Veal is less nutritious than beef, and is not so easily digested. 

Mutton is the name given to the meat of sheep. Mutton is considered almost as 
nutritious as beef. The fat of mutton is not as easily digested as the fat of beef. Good 
mutton comes from a sheep about three years old. 

Lamb is the name given to the meat of lambs. Lamb is less nutritious than mutton. 
Young lamb, when killed from six to eight weeks old, is called spring lamb. Lamb one year 
old is called yearhng. 

Poultry includes chicken, turkey, geese, duck, etc. 

Game incudes wild fowl and wild animals, as partridges, grouse, quails, pigeons, ven- 
ison, etc. 

SELECTION 

MEAT should be uniform in color, the flesh should be firm and elastic to the touch. 
The flesh of beef should be of a bright red color, and intermingled with fat that is 
yellowish. 

MUTTON should be dull red in color, and the fat white. 

LAMB and VEAL should be lighter in color and the flesh less firm than in beef. 

Meat should be removed from the paper as soon as it comes from the market. 

Meat should be kept in a cool place. 

Always wipe meat with a damp cloth. 

METHODS OF COOKING 

The usual Methods of Cooking are boiling, stewing, steaming, broiling, roasting, baking, 
frying sauteing, braising and fricasseeing. 
Boiling. — Cooking in boiling water. 

Stewing. — Cooking for a long time below the boiling point. 
Steaming. — Cooking over the steam of boiling water. 
Broiling. — Cooking over a glowing fire. 

Roasting. — Cooking before a glowing fire (as commonly used, is the same as baking). 
Baking. — Cooking by the dry confined heat of the oven. 

Frying. — Cooking in hot fat deep enough to cover the article to be cooked. 
Sauteing. — Cooking in a small quantity of fat (commonly called frying). 
Braising. — A combination of stewing and baking. 
Fricasseeing. — A combination of frying and stewing. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 40B] MEAT LOAF MIXTURES [Page 111] 




Beef Loaf with Riced Potatoes 



BEEF LOAF 



2 lbs. beef cut from the round ^ tsp. pepper 2 in. cube suet 

1/^ tsp. onion juice 1 beaten egg 1 c. bread crumbs 

1 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. chopped parsley % c. milk 

Wipe the meat with a cloth. Put thru a meat chopper with the suet. Add the season- 
ings; knead; add the crumbs, well beaten egg, and gradually the milk. Knead until spongy. 
Shape into a loaf. Place in a pan lined with thin slices of salt pork fat or spread surface 
generously with suet. Dredge with flour, season with salt and pepper. Bake 40 minutes. 
Baste every 5 minutes with 1 tbsp. butter or melted suet mixed with 1 c. boiling water. This 
mixture may be steamed 2 hours. 

Veal loaf may be prepared in the same way, substituting veal for beef. 

CHICKEN LOAF 

4 lb. chicken % c. milk i^ c. bread crumbs 

1 tsp. salt Vs tsp. paprika 3 eggs 

i/g tsp. celery salt 

Force the chicken meat thru the meat chopper. Work in the seasoning and crumbs with 
a wooden spoon. Add the well beaten yolks, and then the milk gradually. (Taste and season 
more highly if necessary.) Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and bake in a well buttered mold 
placed in a pan of hot water, or steam 2i/^ hours. 

MEAT LOAF 

1 lb. beef % tsp. pepper 1 beaten egg 

1 lb. veal 1 slice chopped onion 1% c. bread crumbs 

1 lb. pork 1 tbsp. chopped parsley % c. milk 

1% tsp. salt 

Follow directions for Beef Loaf. 

POTATO NESTS 

Prepare mashed potatoes according to Lesson 19B. Shape into nests, brush with slightly 
beaten egg and brown in oven. (Take beef loaf mixture, shape to imitate httle birds, using 
cloves for eyes, bake 10 min. in oven, basting frequently. Serve in nests.) 

TOMATO SAUCE 

% c. water 2 cloves 2 tbsp. butter 

% c. tomato % tsp. salt 2 tbsp. flour 

1 slice onion Vs tsp. pepper 

Boil the first four ingredients 5 min. Strain. Brown the butter, add the flour, brown the 
two. Then add gradually the hot liquid. Boil. Season to taste. 



[Page 112] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 41A] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT 
OBJECT— 

1. To extract the juices, as in Soups, Broths and Beef Teas. 

2. To retain the juices, as in Broiling, Roasting, Boiling and Frying. 

3. Combination of both, as in Stewing, and Braising, where part of the juices are 
retained and part extracted. 

EXPERIMENTS 

1. Put a piece of beef (2 in.) into a glass half filled with cold water. Let stand 20 
min. Does the water look just the same? 

2. Scrape or cut a piece of beef (2 in.) into small pieces. Put into a glass half Me(^ 
with cold water. Compare with No. 1. 

3. Put a small piece of beef into a heavy glass. Pour on boiling water. What happens? 
What effect does COLD water have on albumen? 

What effect does BOILING water have on albumen? 

HOW TO PREPARE BEEF TEA 

1 lb. lean beef - 1 pt. cold water Salt to taste 

Scrape or cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cold water into a glass jar 
or top of a double boiler. Let stand 30 min. Place on a trivet in a kettle containing cold 
water, or over lower part of double boiler. Heat slowly. Let stand at a low temperature 
(130 deg. F.) 2 or 3 hrs. Strain thru a coarse strainer and press the meat to obtain all the 
juices. Beef tea prepared below coagulating point of allmmen is a nutrient. 

BROILED BEEF ESSENCE 

One lb. steak from the round and cut % in. thick. Wipe meat, place in a heated broiler. 
Broil 3 min., put on hot plate, cut into small pieces. Express the juice with a lemon 
squeezer, potato ricer, or vegetable press, and turn into a cup. Set in a dish of hot water. 

DIRECTIONS FOR SOUP-MAKING 

2 lbs. raw meat and bone Bit of bay leaf 4 tbsp. turnip, cubed 
1 lb. browned meat and bone Sprig of parsley % tsp. salt 

3 qts. water 4 tbsp. carrot, cubed 2 peppercorns 

1 stalk celery 4 tbsp. onion, sliced Few grs. pepper 

Cut the meat into small pieces; have the bones sawed. Let meat and bone soak in the 
water 1 hr. Simmer in a kettle 4 or 5 hrs. (If only raw meat is used, brown y, of it in a 
frying pan with a little fat of the meat;) About 1 hr. before the stock is taken from the fire 
add the vegetables, which have been browned in suet and seasonings. 

NOTES: 

L'se all the trimmings in making soup stock. 
For white stock use veal or chicken. 

For brown stock use beef, part of it browned, and the vegetables browned. 
Stock without vegetables keeps best in hot weather. 

Stock may be clarified by adding the slightly beaten white of egg and shell, stir, then 
boil 2 min., simmer 20 min.; remove scum and strain thru a cloth placed over a fine strainer. 



[Lesson 41B] STEWING [Page 113] 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR STEWING 

Stewing is cooking slowly, a long time, in a small quantity of water. 

The object is to retain part of the juice and extract enough to give flavor to the gravy. 

This is done by cutting the meat into suitable pieces for serving. Divide into 2 portions. 
Add one portion to cold water and heat slowly to boiling point. Meanwhile sear the other 
portion by browning in a little fat in a frying pan. Then add it to the water and meat. 
The whole should then be cooked slowly for three hours, or until the meat is tender. 

Beef, Mutton, Lamb or Veal may be used, selecting the tough pieces, such as the neck, 
shoulder, lower part of round, aitch bone, etc. Pieces of cold cooked meat may be added to 
the stew. 

Meat with some bone and fat makes a richer stew than the one made with lean meat. 

The pieces of meat are usually dredged with flour before browned. This gives color to 
the stew, a richer flavor, and also thickens the gravy. 

Onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips and potatoes are the vegetables commonly used in 
stews. Tomatoes, string beans and green peas are sometimes used. The vegetables should 
be cut into %-inch cubes, i^-inch slices or strips, and added the last hour of cooking. The 
potatoes, however, should be parboiled 5 minutes, then added to the stew, allowing 20 min- 
utes for cooking. The vegetables may be cooked separately. The usual seasonings are salt 
and pepper. Sweet herbs, parsley, a bit of bay leaf, one or two cloves, celery salt, or catsup 
may be added to give variety. 

Dumplings are often served with stew. Place them so they will rest on the meat and 
vegetables and cook ten minutes. 

BEEF STEW 

2 lbs. beef 1 turnip 4 potatoes 

3 tbsp. flour 1 carrot Salt and pepper 
Water 2 onions, sliced 

Prepare according to directions given above. 




BEEF A LA MODE 

Insert 12 large strips of salt pork fat or piece of suet into a 4-pound piece of round of 
beef. Season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour. Put a piece of suet in a hot pan, brown 
the meat on all sides in this. Put in kettle with vegetables and water according to recipe 
for beef stew, cover closely and cook slowly 4 or 5 hours in oven or on top of range. 

POT ROAST 

When beef is similarly prepared (without the strips of fat and vegetables) and cooked in 
a smaller amount of water it is called pot roast. 



[Page 114] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 42A] 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT 

Broiling is cooking by direct exposure to heat, over hot coals or over a flame (gas flame). 

Cooking with little or no fat in a hot frying pan is called "Pan BroiKng." 

The Object is to retain the juices. 

The Method is to expose the surfaces of the meat to a hot fire, turning frequently. 

By turning frequently, the surfaces are scared and the juices retained. 

EXPERIMENTS 

Put a piece of meat into a wire broiler, hold over a flame one minute. What happens? 
The juice comes to the top and when turned the juice drops into the fire. 

Put a piece of meat into a wire broiler, hold over a flame and count ten. Turn, count 
ten, and repeat. Raise broiler, count ten, turn. Repeat. Cut and examine. 

The tender cuts of beef, mutton and lamb, and some kinds of game, are used for broiling. 

Young chicken, small fish, lobsters, and oysters may be broiled. 

Pork and ^^eal should not be broiled, as they require long cooking. 

Dark meats, as beef, mutton, etc., may be cooked rare. 

Lamb, chicken, and light meats should be well done. 

The best cuts for broiling are steaks from the loin of beef (all between the first rib and 
rear end of hip bone). Example: Sirloin, porterhouse, from the top of round and rump, and 
the rib or loin chops of mutton and lamb. 

The meat should be cut "across the grain,"' from '% to iy> in. thick. 

The dampers of the stove should be open during broiling, so that the smoke, etc., may be 
carried to the chimney. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 42B] 



BROILING 



[Page 115] 



Ifc-^HP^ 



Broiled Steak With Stuffed Tomatoes 



TO BROIL STEAK 

Wipe meat with a damp cloth and trim off superfluous fat. Rub the wire broiler with a 
little of the fat. Place the meat in broiler and broil over a clear fire, turning every ten seconds 
for the first minute. After the first minute, turn occasionally until well cooked on both sides. 

TIME. — Steak an inch thick requires from five to eight minutes. 

Steak may be pan broiled. See 42A. 

SERVE WITH MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

Cream 3 tbsp. butter; add 1 tsp. lemon juice gradually, i{. tsp. salt, Vs tsp. pepper and % 
tbsp. chopped parsley. 



^ 




Hamburg Steak With Riced Potatoes 

HAMBURG STEAK 

Chop finely 1 lb. lean raw beef; season higlily with salt, pepper and a few drops of onion 
juice. Add 14 c. milk gradually; knead dough until spongy and shape into cakes. Heat a 
frying pan, rub with the fat of meat and pan broil the steaks. Turn cakes often during the 
cooking. 

PAN BROILED CHOPS 

Heat the frying pan very hot. Trim the chops, remove the fat, and wipe the chops. Put 
into frying pan. When one side is seared, sear the other, turn often the first minute. Cook 
from 6 to 8 min. Stand chops in the pan so the edges may be cooked. 

TIME TABLE FOR BROILING 

Steak 1 inch thick 5 to 8 minutes 

Steak 1% inch thick 7 to 12 minutes 

Chickens 20 to 30 minutes 

Squabs , , 10 to 12 minuteg 



[Page 116] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 43A] 




1. Neck 

2. Chuck 

3. Ribs 

4. Shoulder clod 

5. Fore shank 

6. Brisket 

7. Cross ribs 

8. Plate 

9. Navel 

10. Loin 

11. Flank 

12. Rump 

13. Round 

14. Second cut round 

15. Hind shank 

U. S. Department of Agriculture 



HIND QUARTER 



FOPE QUAPTER 




[Lesson 43B] PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS [Page 117] 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT 

Braising is steaming meat in its own juices in the oven. It is done by the cooking of 
meat with a small amount of water in the oven in a tightly covered pan or kettle. It is a 
combination of stewing and baking meat. The meat should be cooked in an oven at a low 
temperature for a long time. By so doing tough pieces of meat become tender. 

ROLLED FLANK OF BEEF OR ROLLED ROUND OF BEEF 

Flank steak, or 1 lb. of thinly cut round steak. 

2 or 3 sjnall pieces of suet V^ c. carrot, cubed 

1 onion 2 c. stock or water 

Wipe the meat, trim the edges, pound on both sides, spread with stuffing, roll and tie. 
Sprinkle the roll with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and brown on all sides in hot drip- 
pings and lay it on the onion and carrot in a pan with the suet on top. Pour the water or 
stock into the pan. Cover tightly and cook slowly in the oven or on top of the stove. 

For round steak, cook slowly, covered, for i/^ hr. or more in a moderate oven, then uncover 
and cook % hr. 

For flank steak, cook slowly, covered, for 3 hrs. or more in a moderate oven, then ancover 
last 1^ hr. 

Serve with brown gravy made by thickening the liquid in the pan. 

Individual rolls may be made. 

STUFFING 

2 c. soft bread crumbs 2 tbsp. celery (cut) or % tsp. 
2 tbsp. melted butter celery salt 

2 tbsp. chopped parsley % tsp. salt 

% tsp. onion juice (if liked) Vs tsp. pepper 

1/4 c- bot water 




VEAL BIRDS 

Wipe thin slices of veal cut from the leg or shouldtf. Pound the meat on both sides, 
and cut into 3 by 3% -inch pieces. Spread pieces with STUFFING, roll and tie, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dredge wath flour. Brown in hot butter. Put in stew pan, cover with a 
thin white sauce and cook slowly until tender. Serve on small circular or square pieces of 
toast, cover with the sauce and garnish with parsley. The trimmings may be used for 
making a white stock, which may be added to the sauce or stuffing. 



[Page 118] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 44A] 

BEEF 

Name of Cut How to Prepare No. of Lesson 

LOIN — Including aM Sirloin Cuts Roast 44B 

Broil 42B 



RUMP Fairly good for broiling 42B 

Back of Loin Roast 44B 

" " Stew 41B 

" " Pot Roast 41B 

ROUND Braize 43B 

" Beef a la mode 41B 

" Beef juice 41A 

Beef tea 41A 

" Fairly good for roasting 44B 

" and broiling 42B 

PRIME RIBS I. Fine for roasting 44B 

BLADE Fairly good for roasting 44B 

CHUCK Braize 43B 

Pot roast 41B 

Stew 41B 

NECK Soup 41A 

" Stew 41B 

BRISKET Corn or boil 41B 

CROSS RIBS Pot roast or inferior steak 41B 

PLATE Corn or boil 41B 

NAVEL Corn or boil 41B 

FLANK Stew 41B 

" Roll and braize 43B 

SHIN Soup 41A 

Skirt Steak Stew 41B 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 44B] ROv\STING [Page 119] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS— MEAT 

METHODS OF COOKING MEAT 







Roast Beef with Carrots in Turnip Cups 

ROASTING 

Roasting is cooking by exposure to direct action of dry heat on a spit or in an oven. 

Tlie object of roasting is to retain the juices and develop a special flavor. The tender 
cuts of meat should be selected for roasting — the choicest cuts being the sirloin, rump, rib, 
etc., of beef; the loin, leg and shoulder of lamb, mutton or veal; the chine and rib of pork. 
Chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, etc., are used for roasting. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Dredge the surface with flour, salt and pepper. Put 
pieces of fat on the meat and in the pan (melted fat may be used and rubbed over the sur- 
face). Place meat on a rack in the pan. Put into a hot oven. The heat of the oven 
should be intense at first to sear the surface (about 10 min.), and then the heat should be 
reduced and water added to cover bottom of pan. 

The meat should either be covered closely or basted frequently with equal quantities of 
fat drippings and water. After the last basting, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place meat 
on a hot platter and garnish. 

GRAVY 

Pour fat from pan, allow 2 tbsp. of fat to 3 tbsp. flour for each cupful of gravy. Put 
fat into the pan, add the flour and stir over a hot fire until well browned; add the boiling 
watei or stock gradually; boil 3 min.; season to taste with salt and pepper and strain. 

TIME TABLE FOR ROASTING 

Beef, round per lb. 12 to 15 min. 

Beef, ribs (well done) per lb. 12 to 15 min. 

Beef, ribs (rare) per lb. 8 to 10 min. 

Mutton leg (well done) per lb. 15 min. 

Mutton leg (rare) per lb. 10 min. 

Mutton loin (rare) per lb. 8 min. 

Mutton shoulder (stuffed) per lb. 15 min. 

Lamb (well done) per lb. 20 min. 

Veal (well done) per lb. 25 min. 

Pork (well done) per lb. 30 min. 

Chicken per lb. 15 min. 

Goose per lb. 18 to 20 min. 

8 lb. turkey about 2 hrs. 



[Page 120] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 45A] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

POULTRY 
SELECTING POULTRY, select a chicken with firm flesh, yellow skin and legs. 
A CHICKEN is known by soft feet, smooth skin and soft cartilage at end of breastbone. 
A YOUNG CHICKEN lias an abundance of pin feathers. Long hairs denote age. 
Choose spring chickens for broiling. A young, plump chicken for roasting. A fowl for 
stewing. 

TO DRESS AND CLEAN POULTRY 

Pick out the pin fcatliers, singe, remove hairs and down by holding over a flame. Cut 
ofT the head, using a small-pointed knife. Cut tlu-ough the skin around the leg, ll^ in. 
below the leg joint, care being taken not to cut tendons, snap the bone and pull off foot. 

Make a cut through the skiji below the breast bone just large enough to admit the 
hand. Keep the fingers close to the breastbone until tlie heart and liver are reached, loosen 
on either side down toward the back. Loosen all membrane and remove entrails, gizzard, 
heart and liver. The lungs and kidneys lie in the hollow near the backbone and between 
the ribs. 

Cut off' the neck close to the body, leaving enough skin to fasten under the back. 
Remove windpipe and the croi). Remove oil bag and wash bird by letting cold water run 
through it. (Do not soak bird in cold water. Wliy?) ^^"ipe inside and outside with a damp 
cloth. 

TO CLEAN GIBLETS 

Cut the liver from the gall bladder; cut the heart open and remove the clotted blood 
Cut the outer coat of the gizzard and draw it off", leaving the sac containing the sand, etc. 
Vash and cook in boiling salted water. 

TO STUFF POULTRY 

LTse enough stuflfing to fill the skin, that the bird may look plump when sewed. Where 
cracker stuffing is used, allowance must be made for the swelling of the crumbs. Sew the 
skin or use skewers. 

TO TRUSS POULTRY 

Draw the tliighs and wings close to the body and fasten witli steel skewers, or tie with 
a string. Fasten the neck skin under the back. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 45B] 



ROAST CHICKEN 



[Page 121] 




Roast Chicken With Cranberry Jelly and Glazed Sweet Potatoes 



ROAST CHICKEN 

DRESS, CLEAN, STUFF AND TRUSS A CHICKEN 

Place on its back on a rack in a dripping pan (or on thin slices of salt pork fat or chicken 
fat in a pan a trifle larger than the chicken). Rub the entire surface with salt and spread 
legs and breast with 3 tbsp. butter or melted chicken fat and 3 tbsp. of flour. Place in a 
hot oven and when flour is well browned, reduce the heat and baste every ten minutes if 
not roasted in a self-basting pan. 

For Basting take 4 tbsp. of the fat in the pan and mix with one cup boiling water. 

A 4-pound chicken requires about li/> hrs. 

For the stuffing the chicken fat may be melted and used in place of the butter. 



1 c. cracker or bread 

crumbs 
1/4 c. melted butter 



STUFFING I 

Sage if liked 
1/4 tsp. salt 
Few grs. pepper 



Vs c. milk scalded 

1 tsp. chopped parsley 



STUFFING II (CHESTNUT) 

2 c. French chestnuts 1 c. cracker crumbs Few grs. pepper 

Va c. butter % tsp. salt % c. cream 

Shell and blanch chestnuts. Cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain and mash. 

Add half the butter, salt, pepper and cream. Melt remaining butter, mix with cracker 

crumbs, then combine mixtures. 



1% c. dried bread crumbs 

G tbsp. melted butter 

Mix ingredients in order given. 



STUFFING III 

1/4 tsp. salt 

% tsp. cinnamon 



apple sauce 
(Lesson 47B) 



% c: dried bread crumbs 
1 c. cracker crumbs 
Mix in order given. 



STUFFING IV 

1/2 c. butter 
1 pt.oysters 



Salt and pepper 



2 c. freshly grated bread 

crumbs 
1 tsp. salt 
Mix in order given. 



STUFFING V 

1/4 tsp. pepper 
Sage (if liked) 

Va c. melted butter 



1 well beaten ego 
1/3 c. scalded milk 



[Page 122] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 46A] 



FRYING 

FRYING means cooking in hot fat, deep enovigh to cover the material to be cooked. The 
fat used for cooking may be Olive Oil, Lard, Beef Drippings, Cottolene, Cotosuet, Cocoa 
Butter, Peanut Oil, Crisco, etc. 

A combination of two-thirds lard and one-third beef drippings is considered better than 
lard alone. 

TO TRY OUT FAT 

Cut the fat into bits, put into a pan in the oven or over a fire with enough cold water 
to cover, and let simmer slowly for several hours. When the fat is melted and nearly free 
from water, strain it. On cooling the fat will form a cake on top of any remaining water. 
Another way is to put the small pieces of fat in the top of a double boiler. 

TO CLARIFY FAT 

Melt the fat, add raw potatoes cut in i/4-in. slices and allow fat to heat gradually. When 
fat ceases to bubble and potatoes are well browned, strain (thru muslin or double thickness 
of cheese cloth placed over a strainer) into a pan or jar. 

POINTS ABOUT FRYING 

Fat should be hot enough to fonn a crust on the food cooked in it. 

So long as the fat bubbles it is not hot enough. 

Anything that cools the fat tends to make the food greasy. 

Do not put too much into the fat at the same time, as it lowers the temperature. 

Reheat the fat after each frying. 

All fried food should be drained on soft paper. 

RULES FOR TESTING FAT FOR FRYING 
When the fat begins to smoke, drop into it an inch cube piece of bread. 

If this browns in forty seconds, the fat is hot enough for cooked mixtures — ex., cro- 
quettes, codfish balls, etc. 

Use same test for uncooked mixtures, allowing one minute for bread to brown; ex., 
doughnuts, etc. 

NOTE. — Nearly all food not containing eggs is dipped in eggs and crumbs, flour or meal, 
to protect it from absorbing fat. The heat of the fat hardens the albumen of the egg and 
forms a coating. 




NOTES: 



[Lesson 46B] 



FRYING— CROQUETTES 



[Page 123] 



Left-overs of cooked meat, fish, vegetables, or macaroni may be used in croquettes. 

The usual mixture consists of two parts of meat, etc., to one part of well seasoned, thick 
sauce. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Cool the mixture. Use 3 tbsp. of mixture to each croquette. Form into balls, cylinders, 
or to imitate pears, apples, etc., vising cloves for stems and for eyes if shaped into birds. 

Put a heap of fine crumbs on a board or large plate. (Use for crumbing dried bread 
crumbs which have been rolled and sifted, or stale bread crumbs forced through a colander.) 
Break an egg, add two tbsp. water, beat slightly. Roll the shaped croquette mixture in the 
crumbs, dip in egg and then in crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot fat until a light brown 
and drain on soft paper. 

Place a napkin on a hot platter and arrange the croquettes on it. Garnish with parsley, 
etc. A sauce may be served with croquettes. 




2 c. chopped veal (cooked) 
y2 tsp, salt. 



Few drops onion juice 
Yolk 1 egg 



VEAL CROQUETTES 

Few grs. cayenne 
1 c. thick sauce 
i/s tsp. pepper 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cool, shape, dip in crumbs, eggs, and crumbs again. 
Fry in deep fat. Chicken croquettes may be made in same way, substituting chicken for veal. 

THICK SAUCE 
21/3 tbsp. butter 1/3 c. flour 1 e, liquid 

'Y2 tsp. salt Few grs. pepper 

(In making the thick white sauce use either white stock or milk.) Follow directions 
given in Lesson 7B. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 
2 c. riced potatoes 8 drops onion juice Vg tsp- pepper % tsp. salt 

1/4 tsp. celery salt 1 tsp. chopped parsley 2 tbsp. butter 1 egg yolk 

Mix ingredients in order given. Shape, dip in crumbs, eggs and crumbs again. Fry in hot 
fat. 

RICE CROQUETTES 
2 c. steamed rice (Lesson 21B) % tsp. salt Few grains paprika 

1 well beaten' egg or 2 yolks % tsp. pepper 2 tbsp. chopped 

1% tbsp. butter parsley 

Mix ingredients, follow directions. Sweet rice croquettes may be made by omitting the 
pepper, paprika and parsley, and adding 2 tbsp. sugar and the grated rind of % lemon. 

BREADED VEAL CUTLETS 

Use 1/4 inch thick slices of veal cut from the leg. Wipe meat. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender. Remove bone and skin and cut into pieces for serving. Drain, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, eggs, and crumbs again and fry in hot deep fat. The 
stock may be used for sauce or soup. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 
Wash and pare small potatoes; cut in eighths lengthwise, and soak 1 hour in cold water. 
Take from water, dry between towels, and fry in deep fat. 
Drain on paper and sprinkle with salt. 
Do not have the fat too hot, as the potatoes must be cooked. 



[Page 124] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 47A] 



TABLE SHOWING COMPOSITION OF MEAT 



Article, Beef 


Refuse 
, ] <) s 


Proteid 

H.l 

15.3 

18.7 

14.4 

15.9 

13.6 

15. 

14.8 

16. 


Fat 

16.1 
15.6 
8.8 
19. 
17.3 
20.6 
20.8 
15.3 
20.4 


Mineral 
Matter 

.7 

.8 
1. 

.8 

.9 

.7 

.8 

.0 
1. 


Water 

49.3 


Hind quarter . . . . 


16 3 


52 


Round 


8.5 


63. 


Rump 

Loin 


18.5 

12.6 


47. 
53.3 


Ribs 


20.2 


44.9 




13.3 


50.1 


Tongue . . .... 


15.1 


53.8 


Heart 




62.6 



PROF. W. 0. ATWATER, Pli.D. 

TIME TABLE FOR BOILING MEAT AND FISH 

Fresh beef 4 to 6 hrs. 

Corned beef, rib or flank, per lb., 25 min 4 to 7 hrs. 

Corned beef, fancy brisket, per lb., 30 min 5 to 8 hrs. 

Corned tongue 3 to 4 hrs. 

Ham, 12 to 14 lbs 4 to 5 hrs. 

Leg or shoulder of lamb 2 to 3 hrs. 

Leg or shoulder of mutton, per lb., 12 to 20 min 3^^ to 5 hrs. 

Turkey, per lb 15 to 18 min. 

Fowl, per 4 lbs 2 to 4 hrs. 

Lobster 25 to 30 min. 

Codfish, per lb 6 min. 

Haddock, per lb 3 min. 

Salmon, whole or thick piece, per lb 10 to 15 min. 

Halibut, whole or thick piece, per 11) 15 min. 

Clams 3 to 5 min. 

Oysters 3 to 5 min. 

Fish, per lb 10 to 12 min. 

Review lessons up to date. 



NOTES: 



[Lesson 47B] 



MEAT SAUCES 



[Page 125] 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SAUCES 

RULE I 

Mix an equal amount of flour and water until smooth, then add more cold water until 
tliin enough to pom-. Add the flour mixture gradually to the hot liquid, stirring all the time 
until thickened, add the butter and seasonings for making sauces just before taking from 
the fire. If cooked in a double boiler, allow 20 min. for cooking. If boiled, cook 5 min. This 
method does not cook the butter. Cooking butter renders it less digestible. 

For a thin sauce, allow 1^2 tbsp. flour to 1 c. hquid. 

For a medium sauce, allow 2 tbsp. flour to 1 c. liquid. 

RULE II 

Melt the butter, add flour mixed with seasonings and stir until thoroly mixed. Pour on 
graduafly the hot liquid, adding one-third at a time, stirring while cooking until perfectly 
smooth before adding more liquid. 

RULE III 

Cream the butter, flour and seasonings; add to hot liquid; cook, stirring all the time 
until perfectly smooth. 



1 c. scalded milk 

2 tbsp. flour 



WHITE SAUCE 

2 tbsp. water 
1/4 tsp. salt 



Follow directions as given above in Rule I. 

THICK WHITE SAUCE 
Allow 1/3 c. flour to 1 c. milk. 



Few grs. pepper 
2 tbsp. butter 



, % c. highly se 
white stock 

Follow directions. 
Lesson 40B 



isoned 



BECHAMEL SAUCE 

y, c. scalded milk 
i/i tsp. salt 
2 tbsp. flour 

TOMATO SAUCE 



1-16 tsp. pepper 
2 tbsp. butter 



TOMATO CREAM SAUCE 

Add Vs tsp. soda to Tomato Sauce. Heat, add graduafly % c. scalded milk. 

BROWN SAUCE 

2 c. brown stock 1 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. flour 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Brown the butter, add the flour. Brown the two, stirring until smooth; add the stock 
gradually; cook and stir until sauce is smooth. 



MINT SAUCE 

1 c. finely chopped mint leaves ^2 c- vinegar 

2 tbsp. sugar 

Use only the leaves and tender tips of the mint. Add the sugar to the vinegar. When 
dissolved, pour over the mint and let stand on the back of the range for thirty minutes. If 
the vinegar is very strong, add a Ijttle water. 



[Page 126] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 48A] 

PROTEIDS— TISSUE BUILDERS 

FISH 

FISH is the animal food next in importance to that of meat. The fish fiesh is less 
stimulating and nourishing than meat, but is considered to be more easily digested. 

Fish is classified into the white-fleshed and red-fleshed. 

In the white-fleshed fish, most of the oil is secreted in the liver, while in the red-fleshed 
the oil is distributed throughout the flesh. 

White-Fleshed Fish.— Examples : White Fish, Haddock, Cod, Flounder, Smelt, Perch, 
Pickerel, Sun Fish, Croppies, etc. 

Red-Fleshed Fish. — Examples: Salmon, Shad, Lake Trout, Butter Fish, Herring, etc. 

The white-fleshed fish is more easily digested than the red-fleshed and should therefore 
be selected for invalids, convalescents or those suffering from weak digestion. 

Fish should be eaten while fresh and in season. Stale fish is poisonous. 

HOW TO SELECT FRESH FISH 

Select a fish that has bright eyes and gills, shiny scales, firm flesh, and is fr©e from a 
disagreeable odor. 

HOW TO CLEAN FISH 

Eemove the scales by drawing a knife over the flsh, beginning at the tail and working 
toward the head. 

Wipe the fish inside and outside with a cloth wet in cold salted water, then wipe with a 
clean dry cloth, kept for the purpose. Head and tail may or may not be taken off, according 
to the manner of cooking. 

HOW TO SKIN A FISH 

Rub fingers with salt, so that the fish may be held without slipping. 

Remove the fins along the back with a sharp knife. Cut off a narrow strip of skin 
the entire length of the back. Loosen the skin from the bony part of gills and draw it off 
very carefully, one side at a time. 

HOW TO BONE A FISH 

Clean and skin; begin at the tail and run a sharp knife under the flesh close to the 
back, working toward the head. Turn and repeat on the other side. Pick out any small 
bones that may remain. 

METHODS OF COOKING FISH 

Broiling, baking and steaming are the best methods for cooking fish. 

Fish suitable for broiling are: Split mackerel, white fish, cod, shad, trout, etc., sliced 
halibut and salmon, white smelts and small fish. 

Fish suitable for baking whole are: White fish, cod, haddock, small salmon, shad, etc. 

Fish suitable for boiling are: Salmon, halibut, cod, haddock, trout, etc. 

Fish suitable for frying are the white-fleshed. 




Boiled Fish with Potato Balls 



[Lesson 48B] 



DIFFERENT WAYS OF PREPARING FISH 



[Page 127] 




BAKED FISH 

Select a fish -^veigliing from 2% to 4 lbs. Bake with or without filling. 

Clean and wipe the fish. Rub the inside with salt. Fill with stuffing (Lesson 49B.) and 
sew together. Cut diagonal gashes 1% inches apart on both sides of the fish, and place a 
strip of bacon or salt pork fat in each gash. 

Brush with melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, tie in the 
shape of a letter S and bake on a baking sheet or strips of cotton cloth (so that it may be 
easily removed from pan) in a dripping pan. When the flour is browned baste the fish once 
in ten minutes. Cook until the flesh is firm and separates easily from the bone. When 
cooked, slip onto a hot platter, garnish with fried gelatine or parsley and lemon cut into 
fancy shapes. Serve with tomato sauce (Lesson 40B). 



Clean and wipe the 
dip in eggs and crumb 
Serve on a hot dish. 



FRIED FISH 

fish. Season with salt and pepper, roll in corn meal, flour or crumbs, 
I again (Lesson 46A). Cook in deep hot fat; drain on soft paper. 



SAUTED FISH 
Prepare fish as for frying and cook in a small amount of fat in a frying pan. 



BOILED FISH 

Clean and wipe the fish; tie in a cheese cloth to hold the fish together and to prevent the 
scum from adhering to the fish. Place the fish on a rack or frying basket to keep the 
shape and to make it easier to remove from the water. Cook gently in enough boiling 
salted acidulated water to cover the fish, using 2 tsp. salt and 2 tbsp. vinegar to each quart of 
water. The salt gives flavor and the vinegar or lemon juice keeps the flesh white. Allow 
about 15 minutes to the pound. The fish is cooked when the flesh is firm and separates easily 
from the bone. 

Remove from water, take off the cheese cloth, put on a hot platter, and serve Avith Hol- 
landaise Savice (Lesson 49B). 

BROILED FISH 

Clean and wipe the fish; remove head and tail and split down the back. If a thick fish 
is used, cut into slices. 

Grease a wire broiler, lay in the fish and cook over a clear fire, cooking the flesh side 
first. Turn it and cook the skin vmtil crisp. Sliced fish should be turned often while broil- 
ing. Fish is cooked when flesh is firm. Slip onto a hot platter, season with salt, pepper and 
butter and lemon juice, if liked. 

NOTES: 



[Paye 128] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 49A] 



From the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 85. By C. F. Langworthy, Ph. D. 



TABLE I. — Composition of fish, mollusks, crustaceans, etc. 



KIND OF FOOD 
MATERIAL 



Refuse 
(bone, 
skin, 
etc.) 



Protein 
by Factor 
N X 6.25) 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Ash or 
Mineral 
Matter 



Total 
Nutri- 
ents 



Fresh Fish 

Alewife, whole 

Bass, large - mouthed 

black, dressed 

Bass, large -mouthed 

black, whole 

Bass, small -mouthed 

black, dressed 

Bass, small - mouthed 

black, whole 

Bass, sea, dressed 

Bass, sea, whole 

Bass, striped, dressed . . . 

Blackfish, dressed 

Bluefish, dressed 

Butterfish, dressed 

Butterfish, whole 

Carp (European analy-. 

sis) 

Cod, dressed 

Cod, steaks 

Cusk, dressed 

Eel, salt-water, dressed'. . 
Flounder, common 

dressed 

Flounder, winter, . 



Hake, dressed 

Haddock, dressed 

Halibut, dressed 

Herring, whole 

Mackerel, dressed 

Mackerel, Spanish, 
dressed 

Mackerel, S p a n i s li . 
whole 

Mullet, dressed 

Mullet, whole 

Perch, white,- dressed 

Perch, white, whole 

Perch, yellow, dressed. . . 

Pickerel, dressed 

Pickerel, whole 

Pollock, dressed 

Pompano, whole 

Porgy , dressed 

Porgy, whole 

Red grouper, dressed. . . . 

Red snapper, dressed 

Salmon, California (sec- 
tions) 

Salmon, Maine, dressed. . 

Shad, dressed 

Shad, whole 

Shad, roe 

Smelt, whole 

Sturgeon, dressed 

Tomcod, dressed 

Tomcod, whole. 

Trout, brook, dressed. . . 

Trout, brook, whole. ... 

Trout, lake, dressed ... . 

Turbot, dressed . 

Turbot, whole 

Weakfish, dressed ' . 

Weakfish, whole ' . 

Whitefish, dressed ' . 

Whitefish, whole " . 

General average of fres,h . 
fish as sold 



Per cent. 
49.5 

46.7 

56.0 

46.4 

53.6 
46.8 
56.1 
51.2 
55.7 
48.6 
34.6 
42.8 

37.1 
29.9 
9.2 
40.3 
20.2 

57.0 

56.2 
52.2 
51.0 
17.7 
42.6 
40.7 

24.4 

34.6 
49.0 
57.9 
54.6 
62.5 
35.1 
35.9 
47.1 
28.5 
45.5 
53.7 
60.0 
55.9 
45.3 

10.3 

23.8 
43.9 
50.1 



41.9 
14.4 
51.4 
59.9 
37.9 
48.1 
37.5 
39.5 
47.7 
41.7 
51.9 
43.6 
53.5 

41.6 



Per cent. 
37.6 



34.7 
42.2 
34.8 
37.4 
35.0 
40.3 
45.8 
40.1 

48.4 
58.5 
72.4 
49.0 
57.2 

35.8 

37.0 
39.5 
40.0 
61.9 
41.7 
43.7 

51.4 

44.5 
38.2 
31.5 
34.4 
28.4 
50.7 
51.2 
42.2 
54.3 
39.5 
34.6 
29.9 
35.0 
43.7 

57.9 
51.2 
39.6 
35.2 
71.2 
46.1 
67.4 
39.6 
32.7 
48.4 
40.4 
44.4 
43.1 
37.3 
46.1 

39^4 
32.5 

44.6 



10.3 

8.5 

11.7 

10.1 
10.5 
8.7 
8.8 
8.4 
10.0 
11.8 
10.3 



11.1 
17.0 
10.1 
14.8 



6.3 
7.3 
8.4 
15.3 
11.2 
11.6 



14 1 
9.9 
8.2 
8.8 
7.3 
12.8 
12.0 
9.9 
15.4 
10 3 
8.6 
7.4 
8.5 
10.6 

16.7 
15.0 
10.6 
9.4 
23.5 
10.1 
15.1 
8.4 
6.9 



7.7 
10.4 



Per cent, 
2.4 



Per cent 
0.8 



Per cent. 
13.0 



11.8 
11.4 

9.5 
11.5 

9.4 
11.3 
19.7 
17.2 

14.5 
12.1 
18.5 
10.7 
22.8 

7.3 

7.0 
8.1 
9.2 
20.6 
16.0 
15.8 

24.7 

21.3 
12.9 



NOTES: 



[Lesson 49B] FISH SAUCES [Page 1291 



DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE 

2 c. boiling water 4 tbsp. flour 

% c. butter Vs tsp. pepper 

y-2, tsp. salt 

Melt half the butter, add the flour. Stir while adding the boiling water gradually. Boil 
minutes. Add the seasonings and remaining butter. 

CAPER SAUCE 

Add y-2 c. capers, drained, to drawn butter sauce. 

EGG SAUCE 

Add two "hard cooked" eggs, finely chopped, to drawn butter sauce. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 
To serve with salmon: 

6 tbsp. grated horseradish Vo tsp. sugar 

2 tbsp. vinegar Few grs. cayenne 

1/4 tsp. salt % c. thick slightly sour cream 

Mix ingredients except cream. Beat cream until stiff. Combine, beat until thoroly mixed 
and serve. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE I 

2 tbsp. butter 1 c. fish stock 

2 tbsp. flour 2 yolks 

Salt and pepper 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Melt the butter, add the flour. Stir while gradually adding the fish stock (water in which 
the fish has been cooked). Boil 6 minutes. Remove from fire, pour some of the mixture over 
the slightly beaten yolks; pour this back into the sauce. Beat and add the lemon juice and 
seasonings. Do not reheat. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE II 

% c. butter % tbsp. vinegar or i/4 tsp. salt 

Yolks 2 eggs 1 tbsp. lemon juice % c hot water 

Vs tsp. paprika 

Cream the butter, add the yolks and beat thoroly. Then add the lemon juice, salt, paprika 
and hot water. Cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly until like thick cream. Remove 
from fire and beat with a Dover egg beater about 5 minutes. 

FISH STUFFING 

1 c. crumbs (bread or Vs tsp. celery salt 

crackers or half and half) Vs tsp. pepper 

14 c. melted butter (Few drops onion juice, if liked) 

y^ tsp. salt % c. water 

Mix ingredients in order given. If a dry filling is desired, the water may be omitted. 
Three tbsp. catsup, chopped parsley, capers, pickles, or oysters may be added. 



[Page 130] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 50A] 



TABLE I.— Composition of fish, mollusks, etc.— Cont. 



Refuse 
(bone, 
skin, 

etc.) 



KIND OF FOOD 
MATERIAL 



Salt 



Water 



Protein 
by Factor 
(N X 6.25) 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Ash or 
Mineral 
Matter 



Total 

Nutri- 
ents 



Preserved Fish 

Mackerel, No. 1, salted 
Cod, salted and dried. 
Cod, boneless 

salted and dried 

Caviar 

Herring, salted, smoked 

and dried .... 
Haddock, salted, smoked 

and dried .... 
Halibut, salted, smoked 

and dried 

Sardines, canned 

Salmon, canned 

Mackerel, canned 

Mackerel, salt, canned 

Tunny, canned 

Haddock, smoked, cooked 

and canned... 



Mollusks 

Oysters, solids 

Oysters, in shell 

Oysters, canned 

Scallops 

Long clams, in shell 

Long clams, canned ... 

Round clams, removed 
from shell 

Round clams, in shell . . 

Round clams, canned . . 

Mussels 

General average of mol- 
lusks (exclusive of 

canned) 

a Including salt. 



Crustaceans 

Lobster, in shell 

Lobster, canned 

Crawfish, in shell 

Crabs, in shell 

Crabs, canned 

Shrimp, canned 

Fresh abalone 

Canned abalone, flesh 

Canned abalone, liquid in 
can 

Dried abalone 

Genera! average of crus- 
taceans (exclusive of 

canned and dried 

Terrapin, Turtle, etc. 

Terrapin, in shell 

Green turtle, in shell 

Average of turtle and 
terrapin 

Frogs' legs 

General average of fish, 
mollusks, crustaceans. 



etc. 



Per cent 



Per cent. Per cent. 



44.4 

32.2 

7.0 
5.0 
14.2 



67.5 
■46;7' 



86.6 
52.4 



75.4 
76.0 



75.6 
32.0 



17.3 
21.5 



6.5 
1.4 
12.0 



8.3 
5.6 



34.8 
40.2 

64.4 
38.1 

19.2 

49.2 

46.0 
53.6 
56.8 

34!8 
72.7 



88.3 
16.1 
83.4 



28.0 
82.9 
44.9 



13.9 
19.0 

26.3 
30.0 

20.5 

15.8 

19.3 

19^5 
19.6 
13.9 
21.7 

22.3 



14.8 
5.0 



10.6 
2.1 

10.5 
4.6 



5.9 
18.1 
2.1 
7.9 
15.8 
25.4 
22.2 
21.7 

4.4 



4.9 
10.5 



21.2 
.4 



.1 

14.0 
12.1 
7.5 
8.7 
21.2 
4.1 

2.3 



1.3 
.2 

2.4 
.1 
.6 

1.3 



3.3 

.7 

3.9 



5.2 
1.4 



.1 
.6 
.7 
.2 
3.3 
3.7 

.2 
20.9 



1,9 
5.3 
a2.0 
1.3 
2.1 
1.7 

1.6 



2.5 
.2 
1.5 
2.0 
2.6 
1.4 
1.3 

1.5 

2.9 



37.2 
20.6 { 



28.3 
61.9 



35.2 
41.1 
29.0 
29.6 
37.2 
27.5 



11.7 
2.5 

16.6 

19.7 
8.2 

15.5 



4.5 

17.1 
8.4 



7.6 
22.2 

2.5 
10.9 
20.0 
29.2 
27.2 
26.8 

6.2 
60.3 



5.7 
11.3 



Farmers' Bulletin No. 85. By C. F. Langworthy, Ph. D. 
From the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



NOTES; 



[Lesson 50B] 



DIFFERENT WAYS OF PREPARING FISH 



[Page 131] 



FISH BALLS 



1 c. salt codfish 

4 medium sized potatoes 



^ tbsp. butter 
1 egg 



Vs tsp. pepper 



Wash fish in cold water, and pick into small pieces. Wash, pare and cut potatoes in 
%-inch shoes. Cook potatoes and codfish in boihng water to cover, until potatoes are soft. 
Drain oflF every drop of water, return to kettle, mash; add butter, egg well beaten, and 
pepper. Beat with a fork two minutes. Drop by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat. Fat should 
be very hot. Serve with White Sauce (see Lesson 47B). 

FISH CROQUETTES 

To 1 c. cold flaked fish, add i^ c. or more of thick white sauce (see Lesson 47B). Season 
with salt and pepper (lemon juice and onion juice if liked). Cool, shape into cutlets, etc., 
roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs again and fry in deep fat. (Lesson 46A.) 




TURBAN OF FISH 

2 c. cold flaked fish Vs tsp. salt Lemon juice 

1 c. white sauce Few grs. of pepper i/^ c. buttered crumbs 

Put a layer of fish or. a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper and lemon juice. 
Cover with sauce, continuing with layers of fish and sauce until all are used, shaping in 
pyramid form. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a hot oven until crumbs are brown. 
Arrange a potato border around the mound of fish. Brush with beaten egg (diluted). 
Bake in oven until a golden brown. 



SALMON LOAF 



14 lb. canned salmon or 1 lb. fresh salmon 
2 tbsp. melted butter 
2 yolks eggs 
% tsp. salt 
Ya tsp. pepper 

Remove the bones from the salmon. 



1/^ c. scalded milk 

1 tbsp. lemon juice (if liked) 

1 tsp. chopped parsley 
1/^ c. soft crumbs 

2 stiffly beaten whites of eggs 



Add melted butter, beaten yolks, salt, pepper, 
milk, lemon juice and parsley to the crumbs. Add mixture to the salmon. Fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites and steam in a well buttered and crumbed and closely covered mold one 
hour. 



[Page 132] BASIC PRINaPLES OF DOMESTIC SQENCE [Lesson 51A] 



SHELL FISH 

The shell fish commonly used are oysters, clams and scallops. Lobster, shrimps, and crabs 
altho crustaceans, are usually called shell fish. 

AN OYSTER has two shells. The one on which the oyster lies is deeper and rounder 
than the one that covers it. The oyster has two strong muscles, one to open the shell to 
take in food and water, and the other to close it. 

The body is composed of the liver (containing glycogen, animal starch) surrounded by 
fluted layers, called gills. 

Oysters are five years old before suitable for eating. They are in season from September 
to May. They have about the same composition as milk. They are nutritious and of easy 
digestibility. 

According to Stutzer, 14 oysters contain the same amount of nourishment as one egg — 223 
as one pound of beef. One qt. of oysters is equal to 1 qt. of milk in the amount of nourish- 
ment contained. Raw oysters are more easily digested than cooked, but cooking destroys 
dangerous germs that may be present. 

The proteid in oysters is very delicate so that they sliould not be cooked too long nor at 
too high a temperature. 

HOW TO OPEN OYSTERS 

Force a thin, sharp knife under the back of the shell that covers the oyster (the flatter 
of the two) and push forward until it cuts the muscle. Remove the top shell and separate 
the oyster from the under shell. 

HOW TO CLEAN OYSTERS 

Drain off the liquid of the oyster thru a wire strainer placed over a bowl. Pour over 
oysters cold water, using % c. to 1 qt. of oysters. Keep the liquor in the bowl. With the 
fingers examine each oyster separately to see that no bits of shell are left clinging to them. 

CLAMS rank next to oysters in food value. Little neck clams are served at dinner when 
Blue Points are not in season. At the beach, clams are sometimes cooked with seaweed over 
the fire. This is called a clam bake. Clam chowder, which is a stew, is a typical New 
England dish. 

Scallops. The central muscle forms the edible part. They are in season from October 
to April. 

LOBSTERS, CRABS, SHRIMPS 

Their flesh is similar in composition to that of other fish, but is tough and difficult to 
digest. 

Lobster. — The portions of lobster not edible are the lungs, stomach and intestinal vein. 

Crabs are in season during the spring and summer. 

Shrimps are in season from May to October. Always remove the intestinal vein from 
the shrimp. It looks like a black thread along the entire length. 



tLesson 5lS] OYSTERS tt*age 133] 

Oysters on the half shell 

Serve the oysters on the deep halves of the shells, allowing six to each person. Arrange 
shells on crushed ice on plates, small ends toward the center. Place a quarter of a lemon 
in tlie middle of each plate. 

OYSTER STEW 

1 pt. oysters 3 tbsp. butter i/s tsp. pepper (celery salt 

1 qt. scalded milk 14 tbsp. salt if liked) 

Clean the oj'sters (Lesson 51A), heat the liquor to boiling point, strain through double 
thicknesses of cheese cloth. Add salt, pepper and oyster liquor to the scalded milk. Heat to 
boiling point, reduce heat slightly, add the oysters and cook until the edges begin to curl. 
Add the butter and serve. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

1 c. oysters 1 c. white sauce (Lesson 47B) 

1/2 tsp. celery salt 

Clean the oysters, add the oysters to the hot white sauce and cook until the edges begin 
to curl. Serve on toast, in timbale cases, patty shells, etc. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS (See Lesson 12B) 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Clean the oysters, lay them on a clean cloth and pat them gently to dry them. Season 
with salt and pepper. Dip the oysters in cracker or bread crumbs, egg and crumbs again 
(see Lesson 46A). Fry in deep, hot fat, using 90 seconds test, drain the same on soft paper. 
Serve on a folded napkin and garnish with parsley. 

VEGETABLE OYSTER STEW (See Lesson 11) 

Scrape salsify roots — keep under water. Cut into thin slices. Cook until soft in 1 qt. 
water to which has been added 1 tbsp. of vinegar and 1 tsp. salt. Rub thru a sieve, add to 
1 qt. thickened milk. Season with salt and pepper. Serve. 

NOTES: 



[Page 134] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lessoti 62A] 

PROTEID SPARERS— GELATINE 

A PROTEID SPARER 

GELATINE is obtained from cleaned bones, skin and connective tissues of animals. 
These are cooked in boiling water for a long time, thereby extracting the gelatinous 
substances. 

COMMERCIAL GELATINE is prepared by treating the connective tissues, etc., with a 
weak solution of caustic lye kept at a moderate temperature ten days, then raised to a higher 
temperature, the lye drained off, the tissues, etc., rinsed in clear water, purified with sulphur 
and again thoroly washed. The tissues are drained thoroly, melted over steam and the 
liquid gelatine strained off and poured into thin layers to cool. Gelatine is also made from 
fish bones. The purest form of gelatine called ISINGLASS, is made from the air-bladder of 
the sturgeon. 

Gelatine is highly nutritious. It is composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, 
and so has the composition of a proteid food- but is not a tissue builder. It is called a 
PROTEID- SPARER. Its power as a proteid-sparer is about twice that of a carbohydrate. 

Gelatine is very easily digested. It is digested by the pepsin of the gastric juices in 
the stomach, and by the trypsin of the pancreatic juices in the smaller intestines. 

Gelatine is not soluble in cold water. 

Gelatine is soluble in HOT water. 

Gelatine should not be cooked in boiling liquid, as it will not solidify on cooling. 

GENERAL RULES 

Use two tbsp. granulated gelatine to 3l^ cups liquid. 

Soak gelatine in cold water 20 minutes. Dissolve gelatine in boiling water, by pouring the 
boiling water onto the soaked (hydrated) gelatine; or gelatine may be dissolved by placing 
the soaked gelatine over boiling water. Do not stir much while it is dissolving. 

Be sure that all the gelatine is dissolved before adding fruit juices, then add fruit juices, 
sugar, and a few grains of salt, strain thru a fine cloth, put in a cool place or on ice to 
harden. Takes 4 or 5 hours to harden in a refrigerator, 2 hours on ice. More gelatine may 
be used, and then it takes less time for it to harden. 

Remove gelatine from mold by putting mold into a pan of warm water, until the jelly 
loosens. Place inverted on serving dish. 

MEAT JELLIES 

Gelatine may be combined with cooked, sliced or ground, seasoned meat. 

Example: Jellied veal or chicken. If a knuckle of veal or fowl is cooked long enough 
and the stock reduced to about % cup from 4 lb. of meat and bone, there is enough gelatine 
extracted to mold the loaf without adding extra gelatine. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 52B] GELATINE DESSERTS [Page 135] 



LEMON JELLY 

2 to 21/^ c. boiling water 
1 c. sugar 



2 tbsp. granulated gelatine 2 to 2^2 c. boiling water i^ e. lemon juice 

y2 c. COLD water 1 c. sugar Rind 1 lemon 

Soak gelatine 20 minutes in cold water, then dissolve in boiling water. 

Add sugar, the lemon juice and rind, strain into a mold and chill. 

Beating the lemon jelly while it is jelly-like with a Dover egg-beater will make it white 
and fluify. 

Orange, Raspberry, or other fruit jelly may be made in the same way using % c. of the 
fruit juice with lemon juice to taste. 






SNOW PUDDING 

May be made by preparing one-half the recipe of LEMON JELLY. When mixtude begins 
to jelly, beat with a Dover egg-beater until frothy, add the stiffly beaten whites of three 
eggs and continue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape. Serve this with custard 
sauce (Lesson 14B). The whites may be omitted. 

PUDDING A LA MACEDOINE 

Prepare lemon jelly mixture. Place a mold in pan of ice water, pour in mixture % inch 
deep. When firm, decorate with fruit. Cover fruit with some of the lemon jelly mixture. 
When firm, add more fruit and mixture. Repeat until all is used, each time allowing mixture 
to stiffen before fruit is added. Oranges, bananas, dates, figs, etc., may be used. 

NOTE. — The coloring tablet found in the gelatine packages may be used to color the 
jelly mixtures, altho fruit juices may be used to give the desired color. 

NOTES: 



[Page 136] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 53-A] 



TEN CENTS WILL PURCHASE: 



From Farmer's Bulletin No. 142. 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



KIND OF FOOD MATERIAL 


Price 

per 

Pound 


Total 
Weight of 

Food 
Material 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drates 


Energy 




Cents 
25 
16 
1? 

5 
25 
16 
20 
12 
22 
12 
10 
18 

7 
12 
25 
18 
20 
25 
30 
24 
16 
16 

l» 

3 

2| 
2 
7 

I' 

8 
5 
4 
5 
5 

2§ 
5 
10 

!' 
■' 

li 

7 
6 

7 


Pounds 
0.40 
0.63 
0.83 
2.00 
0.40 
0.63 
0.50 
0.83 
0.45 
0.83 
1.00 
0.56 
1.43 
0.83 
0.40 
0.56 
0.50 
0.40 
0.33 
0.42 
0.63 
0.63 
2.85 
3.33 
3.33 
4.00 
4.00 
1.33 
1.33 
2.50 
1.25 
2.00 
2.50 
2.00 
2.00 
4.00 
2.00 
1.00 
6.67 
10.00 
13.33 
10.00 
6.67 
1.43 
1.67 
1.43 
1.67 


Pounds 
0.06 
0.11 
0.13 
0.29 
0.10 
0.08 
0.07 
0.11 
0.06 
0.02 
0.11 
0.08 
0.22 
0.18 
0.02 
0.10 
0.01 


Pounds 
0.06 
0.08 
0.08 
0.23 
0.03 
0.17 
0.07 
0.19 
0.14 


Pounds 


Calories 








Beef shoulder clod 




505 














Mutton chops loin 




800 






445 








Pork, smoked ham 




735 






2950 






220 


Halibut, fresh ... . 


0.02 
0.01 
0.10 




265 


Cod, salt 




465 









Oysters, solids, SOc per qt 


0.01 


90 




o.oi 

0.40 
0.32 
0.27 
0.04 
0.06 
0.20 
0.11 
0.13 
0.03 
0.04 
0.07 
0.02 
0.09 
0.16 


225 






1705 


Do 




1365 


Do 






1125 


Eggs, 36c per dozen 


0.05 
0.07 
0.16 
0.09 
0.11 
0.32 
0.39 
0.31 
0.13 
0.19 
0.34 
0.08 
0.16 
0.20 
0.15 
0.35 
0.05 
0.02 
0.02 
0.10 
0.15 
0.20 
0.08 
0.02 
0.01 
0.01 
0.01 




260 


Eggs, 24c per dozen 




385 




02 
0.14 
0.17 
2.45 
2.94 
2.96 

0^86 
1.66 
0.97 
1.04 
1.30 
1.04 
1.16 
0.18 
0.05 
0.18 
0.93 
1.40 
1.87 
0.54 
0.65 
0.18 
0.13 
0.09 
1.07 


1185 


Milk 7c per quart . 


885 


Milk, 6c per quart 


1030 


Wheat flour 


5440 


Do 


6540 


Corn meal, granular 


6540 


Wheat breakfast food 


2235 


Oat breakfast food . . 


2395 


Oatmeal 


4500 


Rice 


2025 


Do 


0.02 
0.03 
0.01 
0.03 
0.01 




Do 


3000 


Rye bread 


2340 


Beans, white, dried ... 


3040 


Cabbage 


460 


Celery 


130 


Corn, canned 


0.01 
0.01 
0.01 
0.01 
0.01 
0.02 
0.01 


430 


Potatoes, 90c per bushel 


1970 




2950 


Potatoes, 45c per bushel. . 


3935 


Turnips 


1200 




1270 




370 


Oranges 


250 




0.01 


215 


Sugar 


2920 



[Lesson 53B] 



GELATINE DESSERTS— Continued 



[Page 137] 



SPANISH CREAM 



2 tbsp. granulated gelatine 

3 c. milk 



3 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

% c. sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Vs tsp. salt 

Reserve i/4 c milk to soak gelatine. Scald the remaining 2% c. of milk. Separate the 
eggs, beat the yolks, add the sugar and salt; stir in the scalded milk slowly and cook in double 
boiler until custard thickens, stirring all the time. Remove from fire, add the soaked gelatine 
and stir until dissolved, then strain. Beat the whites until stiff, fold into mixture. Flavor 
and turn into cold wet mold. Chill. 




LEMON PUDDING 



li/o tbsp. granulated gelatine % c. sugar 
% c. cold water 4 yolks 



4 whites 

Juice and rind 1 lemon 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Dissolve over boiling water. Beat yolks until thick 
and lemon-colored. Add sugar gradually; beat thoroly; add the dissolved gelatine mixed with 
the lemon juice and rind. Stir until it begins to thicken, then fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Place in a mold and chill. Serve with sweetened and flavored whipped cream 
(Lesson 37B). 



2 tbsp. lemon juice 
Whip from 3 c. cream 



ORANGE CHARLOTTE 

2i-{> tbsp. granulated gelatine 1 c. sugar 

Yo c. cold water 1 c. orange juice 

% c. boiilng water Grated rind of 1 orange 

Soak gelatine in cold water. Dissolve in boiling water. Add sugar, fruit juice and rind. 
Set bowl in ice water, stir constantly until it begins to thicken, then fold in whip from 
cream, adding Vs at a time. Line a mold with orange sections. Fill mold and chill. 

Strawberries, raspberries, pineapple, etc., may be used in place of the orange. 



[Page 138] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 54A] 

TEST QUESTIONS 




COURSE LUNCHEON 
Color — Green and White 

I. Cream of Potato Soup. 

II. Jellied Veal with Creamed Potatoes. Mint Ice. 

III. Lettuce and Banana Salad. 

IV. Ice Cream in Angel's Cake Basket. Angelica or candy handle. 
V. CoflFee. 



[Lesson 54B] PRACTICE TEST [Page 139] 



-| 






J 'i^'.*J. ' -^J^^ 



f «-^\ 



SIMPLE DINNER 
MENU I— Red Color Scheme 

Tomato Soup 
Radishes Croutons 

Meat Loaf 
Mashed Potatoes Buttered Beets 

Blanc Mange Strawberry Sauce 



MENU II 

Vegetable Soup 

Braized Breast of Lamb 
Mashed Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes 

Fruit Salad 
Prune Whip Custard Sauce 



COST OF PREPARING ABOVE MENUS TO SERVE SIX 
Materials Quantity Cost 



[Page 140] 



Basic principles of domestic science 



STUFFED EGGS 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES— SEMESTER III. 

lesson 35B 



1 liard cooked egg 

1 tsp. finely chopped ham 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

% c. scalded milk 
V2 egg 



3 tbsp. Avhite sauce 

LESSON 36B 

2 tbsp. sugar 
1-16 tsp. salt 



2 tbsp. buttered crumbs 



Ys tsp. vanilla 



LESSON 37B 
COTTAGE CHEESE 



% c. sour mil 
Votsp. butter 



Few grs. salt 
1 tsp. cream 



LESSON 38B 



CHEESE FONDUE 

2 tbsp. scalded milk 
2 tbsp. bread crumbs 
4 tbsp. cheese (cut fine) 
1,4 tsp. butter 
1-16 tsp. salt 
y^, yolk and 14 beaten 
white 



CHEESE STRAWS 

ll^ tbsp. flour 
Few grs. salt 
1/2 tsp. butter 
2 tbsp. bread crumbs 
2 tbsp. grated cheese 
1 tsp. milk (or enough to 
make a dougli) 



VANILLA ICE CREAM 
1/3 c. cream 
1 tbsp. sugar 
1/3 tsp. vanilla 

Add walnuts or 14 square 
chocolate melted and cooked 
with Itbsp. sugar, 2 tbsp. boil- 
ing water. 



TOMATO SAUCE 

Yi c. water 

1/4 c. tomato juice 

1/4 slice onion 



BEEF STEW 

1 small piece of meat 
IY2 tsp. flour 
1 slice turnip 
1 slice carrot 
1 slice onion 



LESSON 39B 

MILK SHERBET 

14 c. milk 

2 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. lemon juice (level) 



LESSON 40B 

1 clove 

Ve tsp. salt 

1 tsp. butter 

LESSON 41B 

4 slices potato 

Y2 c. water or more 

Vi tsp. salt 

Few grs. pepper 

DEMONSTRATE 



LESSON 40B 

BEEF LOAF 

2 tbsp. chopped meat 

4 drops onion juice 

Vs tsp. salt 

Few grs. pepper 

1 tsp. beaten egg 

14 tsp. chopped parsley 

V2 tsp. chopped suet 

1 tbsp. bread crumbs 

2 tsp. milk 



2 tsp. flour and 2 tsp. water 
Prepare mashed potato, using 
1 potato. 



Small piece of suet to 
brown half of meat 
Prepare beef stock omitting 
flour and potatoes, as shown in 
beef stew recipe. 
BEEF A LA MODE 



HAIVTBURG STEAK 

2 tbsp. chopped meat 
Vs tsp. salt 



VEAL BIRDS 

1 thin slice veal 
3 tbsp. bread crui 
% tsp. butter 



LESSON 42B 

Few grs. pepper 
1 tsp. milk 

LESSON 43B 

V2 tsp. chopped parsley 
Few drops onion juice 
Few grs. celery salt 



Few drops onion juice 



i/s tsp. salt 

Few grs. pepper 

1 tsp. milk or stock 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES 



[Page 141] 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES— SEMESTER III. 



LESSON 46B 



VEAL CROQUETTES 

% c. chopped veal 

% tsp, salt 

2 tbsp. THICK sauce 

(level) 
% yolk 



POTATO CROQUETTES 

% c. riced potatoes 
Few grs. celery salt 
Vs tsp. chopped parsley 
% tsp; butter 
Vs ^gg yolk 



FISH BALLS 

Yi c. cod fish 
1 potato 
% tsp. butter 
1 tbsp. egg 



LESSON SOB 

SALMON LOAF 

2 tbsp. salmon 
% tsp. butter 
M; yolk 

Few grs. pepper 
1 tbsp. crumbs 



2 tsp. milk 
Ys tsp. parsley 
1-16 tsp. salt 
Y2 white 



LESSON 51B 



6 oysters 

Y2 c. scalded milk 



OYSTER STEW 

1 tsp. butte- 



/s tsp. salt 



LEMON JELLY 

1 tsp. (slightly rounding) 
granulated gelatine 

2 tbsp. cold water 



LESSON 52B 

Yt c. boiling water 

2 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 



Y2 tsp. lemon rind 



LEMON PUDDING 



LESSON 53B 
ORANGE CHARLOTTE 



1 tsp. gelatine 


1 tsp. gelatine 


2 tbsp. cold water 


2 tbsp. cold water 


2 tbsp. sugar 


1 tbsp. boiling water 


1 beaten yolk 


2 tbsp. sugar 


1 beaten white 


2 tbsp. orange juice 


1 tbsp. lemon juice 


Grated rind Y-l orange 



] 'dissolve over boi 



1 tsp. lemon juice 
V3 c. whipped cream 



NOTES: 



[Page 142] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 143] 



[Page 144] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: [Page 145] 



[Page 146] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SQENCE [Lesson 55A] 

HEAT PRODUCERS 

FATS AND OILS 

(See Lesson 16A) 

SOURCE. — Fats and oils are obtained from the animal and vegetable kingdoms. They 
contain three substances: Stearin (solid), Palmitin (semi-solid), Olein (liquid). 

USES IN THE BODY. — The fats and oils store up heat and energy; they also act as a 
lubricant. 

IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM fat is found in layers under the skin, around the kidneys 
and other vital organs, about the joints, between the vertebrae, in all tissues, in the blood 
stream and around the nerves. The source of fat in the body, is to a certain extent 
from the fat of food, also from decomposition of the proteids and a large proportion of carbo- 
hydrates. Among the animal fats, cream and butter are the most important on account of 
their easy assimilation. 

FAT IS THE MOST VALUABLE to poorly nourished people, convalescents, consump- 
tives, diabetics, nervous people, growing children, and those who have poor blood (anemics). 

DIGESTION OF FATS. — Fat is acted upon by the steapsin of the pancreatic juices and 
the bile in the smaller intestines, where it is divided into such tiny globules that it can be 
readily absorbed by the cell walls. 

WHY FRIED FOOD AND PASTRY ARE HARD TO DIGEST.— Fat is not acted upon by 
the saliva in the mouth, nor the gastric juices in the stomach; so when particles of food 
which should be acted upon by these fluids are entirely coated with grease they cannot be 
reached and therefore enter the smaller intestines undigested. Here the fat is removed from 
them by the action of the pancreatic juices, which do their best to digest all, but as they were 
not intended to do all the work, much of the food is passed on undigested. In pastry there 
is also another reason, namely, that so little water is added to the fat coated starch granules 
that they cannot swell and burst sufficiently. Starch grains must absorb water, swell and 
burst before they can be digested. 

REMEMBER, it is the part of the food that comes in contact with the hot fat in frying 
that is rendered difficult of digestion. Follow directions for frying in Lesson 46A. 

EXAMPLES OF ANIMAL FATS are fat of meats, as in bone-marrow, suet, fat of fish, 
fat of milk and eggs. Among the animal fats, cream and butter are the most important on 
account of their easy assimilation. 

EXAMPLES OF VEGETABLE FATS are the fat found in seeds, fruits and nuts. 

Cream, butter, olive oil, bacon, corn meal, oatmeal, nuts and chocolate, are fats valuable 
for the fat they contain. 

^^Tien a recipe calls for melted shortening, melt fat over hot water. 

To add butter to soups and sauces after they are taken oflF the fire is considered the best 
way. Over-heated butter loses some of its flavor and is difficult to digest. 

Never throw away pieces of fat; try them out and save them for cooking purposes. 

Butter is considered the most valuable fat when it is fresh and sweet. Rancid butter 
should not be used. When butter is expensive substitutes may be used. Oatmeal and corn- 
meal are rich in fat and furnish the body with fat in an inexpensive form. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 55B] 



BACON RECIPES 
BACON— I 



[Page 147] 



Take off the rind and cut bacon into thin slices. Cook in a hot frying pan, turning slices 
frequently until crisp and brown, or cover bottom of frying pan with water, put in bacon, 
cook until water has evaporated, then continue cooking, turning slices until nicely browned. 
Drain on soft paper. 

BACON II 

Put thin slices of bacon in a broiler placed over a dripping pan and bake in a hot oven 
until bacon is crisp. Turn once during baking. I>rain on soft paper. Oysters may be wrapped 
in thin slices of bacon and baked in this way. 




LIVER AND BACON 

Cut 1 lb. of liver into % inch slices. Cover with boiling water, let stand 5 minutes to 
draw out the blood; drain, remove veins and skin. Wipe the liver, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and cook in hot bacon fat until brown on both sides, turning occasionally. Make a 
gravy, using 2 tbsp. of the bacon fat and 4 tbsp. of flour. Brown the two in a pan, add 2 c. 
boiling water gradually and stir until smooth, season with salt and pepper. Put the browned 
slice of liver into the gravy and cook slowly 15 minutes. Put liver and gravy on a hot dish, 
arrange the crisp bacon around the edge and serve. Liver may be larded and baked in one 
large piece. 




Baked Beans and Brown Bread 



1 qt. beans 

i/i lb. salt fat pork 



BAKED BEANS 



1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. mustard 



^ c. molasses 



Pick over and wash pea beans; cover with cold water and soak over night. In the 
morning drain, cover with fresh water and cook slowly below boiling point until soft, then 
drain. Put % inch slices of salt pork fat in bottom of an earthen bean pot or covered crock. 
Put beans in pot and bury the remaining pork (which should be gashed in several places) in 
the beans. Mix the salt, mustard and molasses in a cup; fill the cup with boiling water and 
pour the mixture over the beans. Add enough more boiling water to cover beans. Cover 
bean pot, put in oven, and bake in a moderate oven 8 hours. If baked a long time they become 
dark and have a rich flavor. One cup butter may be used instead of the pork. 



[Page 148] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES UF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

DIGESTION 



[Lesson 56A] 



OESOPHAGUS 



GALL BLADDER 

OPENING OF 
PANCREAS 
AND LtVER 




LARGE INTESTINE. 



5MALLINTE6TINE 



VERMIFORM 
APPENDIX 



Before the food we cat becomes blood and later the bone, nerve, muscle, skin, hair, 
etc., it undergoes a number of changes. 
The processes are: 

1. Digestion. 

2. Absorption. 

3. Assimilation. 

4. Elimination. 

Digestion is the process by which th 
of the digestive fluids into a liquid form 



food taken into the body is changed by the action 
so that it can be absorbed by the cell walls. 

Absorption is the process by which the digested food passes thru the cell walls (villi) 
into the blood and lymph stream, so that it can be carried to the parts where it is needed. 

Assimilation is the process by which the absorbed food is made like the different parts 
of the body. When a cell needs nourishment or repair it selects from the blood stream the 
necessary material for its use. 

Elimination is the process by which useless material like undigested food and waste 
materials formed by chemical changes are excreted by the skin, lungs, kidneys and the large 
intestines. (See Lesson 15A.) 

FIVE IMPORTANT ORGANS OF DIGESTION 

Organ Digestive Fluid Ferment Nature of Ferment 



Mouth . . 
Stomach 



Substance acted upon 
Alkaline Starchf 



. . Gastric 



Acid. 



ProteidsJ 



. Saliva Ptyalin 

{ Renin, pepsin 
'/ and hydrochloric acid 
3. Small intestines.— INTESTINAL Acid and Alkaline. . .Storch, proteids, fat? 

iAmylopsin Starchf 
Trypsin Alkaline Proteidst 
Steapsin Fats* 

5. Liver Bile Neutral Fats* 

*The pancreas secretes the pancreatic juice and the liver secretes the bile, but no food is 
digested in them. 

The pancreatic juices and liver pour into the intestines their digestive fluids and these 
complete the process of digestion, as they act upon all foods. 

t See Lesson 16A. J See Lesson 35A. * See Lesson 55A. 



[Lesson 56B] 



FAT AS A FRYING MEDIUM 



[Page 149] 




DOUGHNUTS— I 

1 c. sugar 1 c. milk i/i tsp. cimiamon 

2^2 tbsp. butter 3% e. flour — add enough to roll 1/2 tsp. grated nutmeg 

3 eggs 5 tsp. baking powder 1% tsp. salt 

Cream the butter; add i/l. of the sugar. Beat eggs until light, add milk, remaining sugp^r, 
and combine niixtures. Add the flour mixed and sifted with baking powder, salt and spices, 
then enough more flour to make a dough stiff enough to roll. Toss Vs of mixture onto floured 
board, knead slightly, pat and roll out to lA inch thickness. Shape with a doughnut cutter, 
dipped in flour. Fry in deep fat and drain on brown paper. Brown the doughnuts on one side, 
then turn and brown on the other. They should be turned only once unless turned immedi- 
ately after rising to the top of the fat. Doughnuts should rise to the top almost immediately 
when put into smoking hot fat. 

DOUGHNUTS— II 
5 c. flour 1 tsp. salt 1 c. cream 

1 tsp.soda 14: tsp. cinnamon 3 beaten eggs 

3 tsp. cream of tartar Vs tsp. grated nutmeg 1 c. sugar 

Mix and sift flour, soda and cream of tartar and seasonings. Beat the eggs and add 
the sugar and cream. Add to dry ingredients and mix with a knife; add enough flour to make 
a dough stiff enough to roll. Pat, roll and shape as in Recipe I. 



4 c. flour — add enough to 

knead 
1 tsp. soda 
V2 tsp. cinnamon 



SOUR MILK DOUGHNUTS 
1 tsp. B. P. 



% tsp. salt 

1 well beaten egg 

1 c. sugar 

Mix according to directions for Doughnut Recipe II. 
Add enough flour to knead, pat, roll, shape and fry as in Recipe 



% c. sweet milk 

% c. sour milk 

1 tsp. melted butter 




2 apples cut in cubes 
1 c. flour 



1/3 c. milk 
1 egg 



APPLE FRITTERS 

2 tsp. baking powder 

3 tbsp. sugar 
14 tsp. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk to the well beaten 
add the apples. Drop by spoonfuls and fry in deep fat, dipping the spoon into hot fat 
between each spoonful. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



Ig; combine mixtures, then 



[Page 150] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 57A] 

STEAMING 

STEAMING is cooking over the steam from boiling water. 

STEAMING may be done in a perforated steamer over a kettle containing boiling water. 

A cooker or sterilizer may be used. 

Cooking in the upper part of a double boiie. ^'here the steam does not come in direct 
contact with the food is called dry steaming. 

I'oods cooked in the upper part of the double boiler do not reach the boiling point of 
water, which is 212 deg. F. Salt added to the water in the lower part of the double boiler 
will raise the temperature. 

A double boiler is most useful for making custards, scalding milk, and cooking cereals, 
as it insures even cooking, prevents it from wasting or drying on the boiler, makes stirring 
unnecessary, and removes all chances of burning, so long as there is water in the lower part 
of the double boiler. 

Steaming is a slower process than boiling. 

Tough meats, hams, fruit cakes, puddings, etc., require a long moist heat. 

Fish, potatoes, sweet corn, rice, peas, beans, squash, cucumbers, and pumpkins, may be 
steamed to advantage. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR STEAMED MIXTURES 
A mold, a tin pail or a can with a tightly-fitting cover, may be used. 
Grease the inside of the mold thoroly. 

The molds may be covered with buttered paper, or the inside of the cover buttered, and 
this should be tied down securely. 

The cans should be filled two- thirds full. 

Place the mold on a trivet or several layers of soft paper in a large kettle, containing 
enough boiling water to reach half way to the top of the mold. 

Keep the water boiling all the time during the steaming. Add more boiling wa'ter 
if necessary. 

Cover the kettle during the steaming, and be careful not to jar it while cooking, 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 57B] 



STEAMED MIXTURES 



[Page 151] 



STEAMED BREAD 

W2 c. graham flour 1 c. Indian meal y^ c. molasses 

1 tsp. salt % tbsp. soda 1% c. milk 

Mix and stir the dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk. Fill cans % full, and steam 
three hours in a large mold. Less time is required if cooked in small baking powder or cocoa 





ENTIRE WHEAT PUDDING 

11^ c. entire wheat flour V2 c. molasses 2 tbsp. butter, melted 

Yz tsp. soda V2 c. milk or water 1 c. chopped raisins 

y2 tsp. salt 1 egg beaten 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk. Add beaten egg and melted butter, 
then the raisins. Chopped figs or dates may be used. Steam 2^ hours in a large mold. 

HARD SAUCE 

% c. butter % tsp. lemon extract % tsp. vanilla extract 

1 c. powdered sugar 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and flavoring. 

HUNTER'S PUDDING 

% c. chopped suet % tsp. soda 1/3 tsp. allspice 

% c, molasses 1 tsp. salt Vs tsp. cinnamon 

% c. milk 1/3 tsp. clove 1 c. raisins in 2 tbsp. flour 

2 c. flour 1/3 tsp. mace 14 c, chopped nut meats 

Mix in the order given. Steam 2% hours. Serve with yellow sauce. 

YELLOW SAUCE 

2 eggs 1 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Beat yolks of eggs; add sugar gradually. 
Fold in stifily beaten whites; flavor, 

PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS 

1 qt. cooked mashed carrots 
i. lb. flnely chopped suet 

% c. sugar 

2 c. flour ^ 

1% tsp. salt I 

1 tsp. cinnamon \. Sift together 

% tsp. clove I 

% grated nutmeg j 

% lb. currants 1 

% lb. raisins I Dredge with flour. 

V2 lb. citron j 

Mix ingredients in order given. Steam 3% hours in a buttered mold. May be steamed 
in individual molds. Carrots should be forced thru a fine strainer. 



[Page 152] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 5SA] 






BREAD AND BREAD MAKING 

The word bread comes from ancient words meaning to bruise, break or pound. It also 
conveys that it is made from crushed or ground grain. Many different kinds of grains are 
used in different countries. In the United States, wheat is the grain most commonly used. 
Bread is often spoken of as the staff of life. 




Milk and water bread is considered the best combination. The liijuids used should 
always be scalded to kill any dust plants that might be present. The liquids should be 
lukeVv'arm before the yeast is added. Why? 

Essential ingredients for bread making are: Flour, liquid and a leavening agent. Salt, 
sugar and shortening are added to give flavor. 

Flour (see Lesson 23). 



Experiments with flour: 

I. Put 4 tbsp. white flour into a piece of double cheese-cloth. Wash this in a glass 
containing cold water until the water becomes cloudy. Divide in two. 

(a) Test one-half of it with iodine. What is the result? 

(b) Pour the other half into a saucepan and heat it to boiling point. What is tlie 
result? 

(c) Examine the sticky substance left in the cheese cloth. Knead it until it is 
elastic and rubber-like. Test it with iodine. What is the result? 

It should be free from starch and represent the proteid matter in wheat called gluten. 
It is this gluten that gives the flour the power to hold the gas bubbles formed by the action 
of yeast. 

Liquid. (See Lesson 31A.) 

Milk produces the whitest and most tender loaf. 

Water produces a loaf tliat will keep moist the longest. 



[Lesson 58B] 



ROLLS 



[Page 153] 




(See Lesson 31A.) 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 c. boiling water 3 tbsp. sugar 3 tbsp. butter 

1 c. scalded milk 1 tsp. salt Flour 

1 yeast cake mixed with ^ c. lukewarm water 

Add sugar, salt and butter to milk and water. When, lukewarm, add the yeast cake 
mixed with the water and three cups flour. Beat vigorously; add more flour to make a 
dough. Rub a little flour on the moulding board and turn the dough onto it. Dust a little 
fiour on the palm of your hands, and knead the dough until it is smooth and elastic to the 
touch, and will not stick to the board or hands. Return to bowl, cover closely, and let it 
stand in a warm place until double its bulk. Turn the dough on a board and knead again 
until no large bubbles can be seen. Shape dough into biscuits, let rise again, then with the 
handle of a case-knife dipped in flour, crease thru the middle of each biscuit, or roll with 
rolling pin to oblong shape. Brush % of each with melted butter, fold and press together. 
IMace in greased pans, one inch apart; cover, let rise and bake in a hot oven 12 to 15 
minutes. 

CLOVER-LEAF biscuits may be made by shaping round biscuits; brush them with 
nicltfd butter; drop throe of them into each well greased muffin pan. Let rise and bake. 




Different Shapes 



1 c. milk 
1 tsp. salt 



SWEET ROLLS 

1/4 c. sugar Yolks of 3 eggs 

li c. melted butter Grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 yeast cake mixed with i/4 c. lukewarm water. Flour, 



Scald the milk; add the salt and sugar; when lukewarm add the yeast mixture and 
1% c. flour; beat well, cover and let rise until double its bulk. Add the butter, well beaten 
yolks, lemon rind and enough flour to knead. Knead, let rise again until double its bulk. 
Shape, place in a buttered pan, let rise again and bake. Few grains of ground cardamon may 
be added. 

NOTE. — Use as little flour as possible on the board when kneading the dough. Remove 
biscuits from the pan as soon as baked, and cool so the air may circulate freely around the 
biscuits. If tender crust is desired, rub the crust with a little butter just before taking the 
biscuits from the oven. 



[Page 154] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 59A] 

YEAST AND ITS ACTION 

(See Lesson 30A.) 
Compressed yeast is usually yeast obtained from the froth of beer. 

Eecipe for home-made yeast: 
5 small or 4 large grated % c. sugar 1 yeast cake mixed with i/4 c. 

potatoes 2 tbsp. salt lukewarm water 

1 qt. boiling water 
Add grated potatoes to boiling water and boil 5 minutes while stirring. Cool, add sugar, 
salt and yeast cake mixture. Pour into a stone or glass jar, cover, and let stand in a warm 
place for 3 hours or more. Each time mixture reaches top of jar stir it down. Do this until 
fermentation ceases, then put away in a cool place. Cover. 

Use % cupful of this in place of one yeast cake when making bread or biscuits. 

Use until there is only % cupful left, then prepare according to recipe above, using the 
% cupful of yeast in place of the yeast cake. 

Mechanical processes are: 

1. Mixing. 

2. Beating. 

3. Kneading and Molding. 

MIXING 

The flour should be thoroly mixed with a sufficient quantity of liquid so that each grain 
of flour may be thoroly hydrated (water-soaked), the sugar dissolved and the gluten suffi- 
ciently moistened. 

BEATING 

The mixture should be thoroly beaten to enclose as much air as possible and to distribute 
these air cells. Beating the mixture will make it elastic. The longer it is beaten the less 
kneading is required. 

KNEADING 

The mixture should be kneaded thoroly to make the gluten elastic, to break the bubbles 
and to distribute evenly the COS, thereby forming a fine-grained loaf. 

Molding is simply the shaping of the dough into loaves. 

BAKING 

Bread is baked — 1. To cook the starch. 2. To expand the gases and to harden the cell 
walls. 3. To kill the yeast plants. 4. To evaporate the alcohol formed. 5. To brown the 
crust. 

NOTE: 



[Lesson 59B] 



BREAD 



[Page 155] 




• 






1 c. scalded milk 
1 c. boiling water 
1 tbsp. butter 



(See Lesson 30A.) 



WHITE BREAD 



1 tbsp. lard 
1% tsp. salt 
1 tbsp. sugar 



1 yeast cake mixed with ^4 c. 

lukewarm water 
6 c. flour 



Add butter, lard, salt and sugar to the milk and water; let stand until lukewarm; add 
yeast cake mixed with the lukewarm water and 5 cups flour. Stir until smooth, then add 
enough flour (gradually) to make a dough stiff enough to knead. Turn the dough onto a 
floured board, knead until smooth and elastic to the touch. Return to bowl, cover closely, 
and let it stand in a warm place until double its bulk. Knead again and shape into loaves, 
and place in greased pans. Cover. Let it rise until double its bulk. Bake in a hot oven 
50 to 60 minutes. Have the crusts brown on all sides. 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 



1 c. boiling water Vs c. molasses 4% c. coarse entire wheat flour 

1 c. scalded milk 1 tsp. salt 2% c. flour 

1 yeast cake dissolved in ^4 c. lukewarm water 

Add sweetening and salt to milk; cool, and when lukewarm add yeast cake mixture and 
5 c. flour mixed and sifted. Beat mixture well; add enough flour to make a dough stiff 
enough to knead; knead, cover and let rise to double its bulk. Knead again, shape, place in 
greased bread pans, having pans % fufl. Let rise and bake. 



RYE BREAD 

May be made as directed for entire wheat bread, using rye flour in place of the whole 
wheat flour. 

Remember to let dough rise to double its bulk each time. 



[Page 156] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 60A] 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 




(See Lesson 28) 

ORANGE FILLING 

% c. sugar 1 egg slightly beaten 14 c. orange juice 

2 tbsp. flour Grated rind % orange 1 tsp. lemon juice 

Mix sugar and flour; add other ingredients in order given. Coolc 10 minutes in a doublo 
boiler, stirring constantly until thickened. Cool before spreading. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

1 tbsp. orange juice Yolk 1 egg Grated rind 1 orange 

1 tsp. lemon juice Confectioners' sugar 

Add rind to the fruit juices; let stand 15 minutes, strain and add gradually to yolk 
of egg slightly beaten. Stir in sugar until of right consistency to spread. 



PLAIN FROSTING 

White 1 egg 2 tsp. cold water s 

14 tsp. vanilla 

Beat the white of egg until stiff; add water and sugar 
add the flavoring. Use more sugar if needed. 



confectioners sugar 



rradually. Beat thoroly and 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CREAM 

1 c. sugar White 1 egg i/^ tbsp. lemon juice 

Va c. boiling water 1" tsp. vanilla 

Boil sugar and water in a saucepan until it forms 2-inch "threads" when tried with a 
fork, or until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour syrup gradually into beaten white of 
egg; beat constantly until of right consistency to spread. Add flavoring and pour over cake. 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

1 sq. chocolate 14 tsp. vanilla 

1 tsp. butter 

when melted add the sugar, milk and chocolate. Boil 13 
minutes, or until it makes a soft ball when tried in cold water. Let stand until cooled. 
Beat until creamy. Add flavoring and pour over cake. 



1% c. sugar 
% c. milk 

Put butter in a saucepan; 



[Lesson 60B] 



CAKES 



[Page 157] 



-«■ ■/<"l«s.*«^-A*. 





White Cake with Cocoanut Frosting 



Whites 4 eggs 
1% tsp. vanilla 



WHITE CAKE 

% c. milk 
21/3 c, flour 
3 tsp. baking powder 
Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, then milk alternately with the flour sifted with 
the baking powder. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Add the flavoring and bake in layers 
' ' - - • ' Frost with White Mountain Cream Frosting. 



Vo c. butter 
11/2 c. sugar 



about 15 minutes. 



PLAIN CAKE 

14 c. butter 1 egg I14 c. flour 

14 c. sugar % c. milk 2% tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually and egg well beaten. Mix and sift flour and 
baking powder; add alternately with milk. Bake 30 minutes in a shallow pan. 




Vi c. butter 
1 c. sugar 



V2 c. milk 
1% c. flour 



Then add flour 



ORANGE CAKE 
2 eggs 
Rind % orange 

2% tsp. baking powder 
Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, eggs well beaten, and milk, 
mixed and sifted with baking powder and orange rind. Bake in round layer cake pans. 
Put Orange Filling between layers, and cover top with Orange Frosting. 

May be baked in individual tins and frosted with confectioners' or White Mountain 
Cream Frosting. Decorate with nuts, angelica candied cherries, etc. See illustration. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 
11/2 c. butter % c. milk 

1 c. sugar 11/^ c. flour 

2 eggs 2^2 tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, eggs well beaten, and milk. Add flour mixed, 
and sifted with baking powder. Beat thoroly, then add chocolate and vaniUa. Bake in layers. 
Frost with White Mountain Cream Frosting to which 3 tbsp. of grated chocolate have been 
added. 



2 oz. chocolate 
Vj tsp. vanilla 



[Page 158] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 61 A] 



BULLETIN No. 28.— Averaere Composition of American Food Products 



FOOD MATERIALS 

(as purchased) 


Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Fuel 

Value 

perPound 


EGGS' Hens' eggs 


Per cent 
11.2 


Per cent 
65.5 

11.0 
87.0 
90.5 
91.0 
26.9 
74.0 
27.4 
34.2 

11.4 
11.3 

12.0 
12.0 
10.1 
13.6 
12.5 
7.3 
12.3 
11.4 


Per cent 
13.1 

1.0 

3 3 

3.4 

3.0 

8.8 

2.5 
27.7 
25.9 

13.8 
13.3 

11.4 
14.0 
11.1 

6.4 

9.2 
16.1 

8.0 
.4 


Per cent 
9.3 

85.0 
4.0 
.3 
.5 
8.3 
18.5 
36.8 
33.7 

1.9 

2.2 

1.0 
1.9 
1.7 
1.2 
1.9 
7.2 

.3 

.1 


Per cent 


Per cent 
.9 

3.0 

.7 

.7 

.7 
1.9 

.5 
4.0 
3.8 

1.0 

1.8 

.5 

.9 
1.6 

.9 
1.0 
1.9 

.4 

.1 


Calories 
613 


DAIRY PRODUCTS, ETC.: 
Butter 




3 450 


Whole Milk 




5.0 
5.1 
4.8 
54.1 
4.5 
4.1 
2.4 

71.9 
71.4 

75.1 
71.2 
75.5 
77.9 
75.4 
67.5 
79.0 
88.0 
90.0 

53.1 
47.1 
52.1 
49.7 
53.2 
63.3 
69.7 
70.5 
73.1 
74.1 

69.3 
96.0 
81.2 
100.0 
71.4 


312 


Skim Milk 




166 


Buttermilk 




162 








Cream 




874 


Cheese, Cheddar 




2,063 






1,874 

1,632 
1,626 

1 610 


VEGETABLE FOOD. 
FLOUR, MEAL, ETC.: 




Graham flour 




Wheat flour, patent roller process 

High grade and medium 








1,623 








Buckwheat flour 




1 578 






1,612 


Oatmeal 






Rice 




1,591 
1,608 






Starch 




1 633 


BREAD, PASTRY, ETC.: 

White bread 




35.3 
43.6 
35.7 
38.4 
35.7 
19.9 
6.8 
4.8 
5.9 
10.3 

25.1 


9.2 
5.4 
8.9 
9.7 
9.0 
6.3 
9.7 

11.3 
9.8 

13.4 

2.4 


1.3 

1.8 

1.8 

.9 

.6 

9.0 

12.1 

V: 

.9 


1.1 
2.1 
1.5 

rs 

1.5 
1.7 
2.9 
2.1 
1.3 

3.2 


1,183 
1,025 
1,179 


Brown Bread 








Whole wheat Bread 




1,114 






1,153 


Cake 




1,626 


Cream Crackers 




1,929 
1,908 






Soda crackers 




1 872 






1,600 
1 301 


SUGARS, ETC.: 










1,742 






is. 2 


.4 




.2 


1,481 
1 814 








Maple syrup 












1,295 



From the United States Department of Agriculture. 



Ice Cream in Sponge Cake Basket 
NOTES: 




[Lesson 61B] 



CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER 



[Page 159] 



(See Lesson 28) 



CHEAP SPONGE CAKE 

Yolks 2 eggs % c. flour Whites 2 eggs 

-•'a c. sugar 1 tsp. baking powder i/^ tbsp. vinegar 

2 tsp. hot water Ve tsp. salt 

Beat yolks until thick; add sugar gradually and continue beating; then add water, flour 
mixed and sifted with the baking powder and salt. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs 
and vinegar. Bake 35 minutes in a moderate oven in an unbuttered or a buttered and floured 
cake pan. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

Yolks 4 eggs 1% tbsp. cornstarch ^ tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar 1 c. flour (scant) Whites 4 eggs 

3 tbsp. cold water li^ tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. lemon extract 

Beat yolks until thick; add sugar gradually and beat 2 minutes. Then add water. Mix 
and sift cornstarch, flour, baking powder and salt, and add to first mixture. Fold in stiflly 
beaten whites and flavoring. Bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. This cake may be 
made with two eggs, and using 2 tsp. baking powder and 3 tbsp. water. 




Whites 8 eggs 

1 tsp. cream of tartar 



ANGEL'S FOOD 



1 c. sugar (sifted 4 times) 
% c. flour (sifted 4 times) 



Yi tsp. salt 
% tsp. vanilla 

Beat whites until frothy; add cream of tartar and continue beating until stiff". Sift 
flour and sugar separately four times, then together; fold into the stifily beaten whites, adding 
it at the side of the bowl; add vanilla, and bake in an unbuttered baking tin about 45 
minutes. 



Whites 5 eggs 

% c. powdered sugar 



SMALL SUNSHINE CAKE 

Yolks 3 eggs 
1/^ tsp. vanilla 



% c. flour 

% tsp. cream of tartar 



Beat whites until frothy; add cream of tartar. 



gradually, continue beating; add beaten yolks and extract 
Angel Cake, allowing about 30 minutes for baking. 



Beat until stiff and dry, add sugar 
Fold in sifted flour. Bake as 



[Page 160] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson G2A] 



FOOD VALUE OF NUTS, ETC. 



BULLETIN No. 28.— Average Composition of American Pood Products 



FOOD MATERIALS 

(as purchased) 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Value 
perPound 



NUTS:- 

Almonds 

Beechnuts 

Brazil nuts 

Butternuts 

Chestnuts, fresh 

Chestnuts, dried 

Cocoanuts 

Cocoanut, prepared 

Filberts 

Hickory nuts 

Pecans, polished 

Peanuts 

Pinon (Pinus edulis) 

Walnuts, California, black 

Walnuts, California, soft-shell 

RAISINS 

MISCELLANEOUS: 

Chocolate 

Cocoa, powdered 

Cereal coffee infusion (1 part boiled in 
20 p arts water) 



45.0 
40.8 
49.6 
86.4 
16 
24.0 
48.8 



52.1 
62.2 
53.2 
24.5 
40.6 
74.1 
58.1 
10.0 



2.7 

2.3 

2.6 

.6 

37.8 
4.5 
7.2 
3.5 
1.8 
1.4 
1.4 
6.9 
2.0 
.6 
1.0 

13.1 

5.9 
4.6 



n 5 
13 

8 6 

5! 2 
8.1 
2.9 
6.3 
7.5 
5 8 
5.2 
19.5 
8.7 
7.2 
6.9 
2.3 

12.9 
21.6 



30.2 
34.0 
33.7 
8.3 
4.5 
5.3 
25.9 
57.4 
31.3 
25.5 
33.3 
29.1 
36.8 
14.6 
26.6 
3.0 

48.7 
28.9 



9.5 
7.8 
3.5 
.5 
35.4 
56.41 
14.3 
31.5 
6.2 
4.3 
6.2 
18.5 
10.2 
3.0 
6.8 



37.7 
1.4 



1,600 
1,750 
1,580 
413 
918 
1,384 
1,358 
3,003 
1,512 
1,213 
1,551 
1,864 
1,829 
774 
1,322 
1,406 

2,750 
2.242 



From the United .States Department of Agriculture. 



NOTES: 



1 1 esson 62BJ 



COOKIES 
PART I 



[Page 161 ; 



1/2 c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs beaten 




^,4 tsp. salt 

Y2 tsp. grated nutme« 



2 c. flour 

3 tsp. baking powder 
Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually. Add well beaten egg, milk, and the flour 

mixed and sifted with the baking powder and nutmeg. Add flour to make a stifl' 
dough. Place small portion of dough on a well-floured board, pat and roll to Ys-inch thick- 
ness. Cut, place on a buttered baking tin, and bake in a moderate oven until light brown. 
One egg may be omitted, and then less flour will be required. 

SUGAR COOKIES— II 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 
1 tsp. soda in 2 tbsp. mill 
3 eggs beaten 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and well beaten eggs, lemon juice, soda and milk, 
and enough sifted flour to roll. Cut and bake. 

Vanilla Cookies. — Substitute 1 tsp. vanilla for the nutmeg in Sugar Cookies I. 
Chocolate Cookies. — Add three tbsp. grated chocolate or cocoa to Recipe I. 
Cocoanut Cookies. — Add i.. c. sliredded eocoanut to the dry ingredients in Recipe I. 
Roll \i inch thick. 

Rich Cookies.— ^ c. sugar. 1 c. butter, yolks 4 eggs, 3 tbsp. milk, 4 c. flour. Combine 
as Recipe I. - —. . 



1 c. sugar 

1/2 c. lard or butter 



Flour to make stiff enough to 
roll 




PEANUT COOKIES.- Part II 

2 tbsp. butter 1/2 c. flour 21/2 tbsp. milk 

V4 c. sugar 1 tsp. baking powder % c. chopped peanuts 

1 egg well beaten % tsp. salt % tsp. lemon juice 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually; add well beaten egg. Mix and sift baking powder, 
salt and flour; add to first mixture; then add milk, peanuts and lemon juice. Drop from 
a tip of a spoon on an unbuttered sheet one inch apart, and place 1/2 peanut on top of each. 
Bake 12 to 15 minutes in a slow oven. This makes 24 cookies. 

BOSTON COOKIES 
% c. butter % tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 1 tbsp. hot water 

2 eggs 2 c. flour 

V-, tsp. salt 
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs well beaten. Add soda dissolved 
water, % flour mixed and sifted with salt and cinnamon ~' 
remaining flour. Drop by spoonfuls onto a buttered tin, on 
moderately hot oven. 



1 tsp. cinamon 

14 to 1 c. chopped nuts 

1/3 c. raisins 



Then add nut meat, fruit, 
nch apart, and bake in 



[Page 162] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 6,3 A] 



PASTRY 

Pastry, if it is to be served at all, should be ligbt, lender and flaky. It is then more 
easily digested. 

Winter wheat flour, called pastry flour, should be used, as it makes the pastry more 
tender than bread flour. Less shortening is required when pastry flour is used. 

The lightness of the pastry depends upon the amount of air enclosed and its expansion 
in baking. 

The flakiness depends ui)on tlie number of layers of shortening and paste formed by 
folding and rolling. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 
Use butter, lard or drippings for the shortening. 

Rub in shortening witli the tips of the fingers or chop in witli a knife. 
Add enough cold water to make a stiff dough, using a knife for mixing. 
All the ingredients must be cold. 
Handle the dough as httle as possible, and keep it as cold as possible, as heat melts the 
fat and makes it diflicult to handle the dough. 

Use as little flour as possible dvu-ing the rolling. 

Cut the pastry a little larger than the dish to allow for shrinkage. 

RECIPE FOR PASTRY 

11/1, c. flour VL- tsp. salt '/s to V2 c. shortening 

Cold water to make a stiff" dough (about 4I2 tbsp.). 

Mix and sift the flour and salt. Rub in shortening with tips of fingers or cut it into the 
flour with two knives. Add the cold water, using a knife for mixing.. Knead the dough lightly 
into a ball. Cut in two; roll into circular pieces to fit pie tin, or 

Work ii> of the butter or shortening into the flour, add cold water to make a stiff dough 
as in Recipe I. 

Toss on a floured board, roll out into a rectangular piece. Dot with remaining half of 
butter. Fold or roll up like jelly roll; cut in half and roll out for top and bottom cust. 

This makes a flaky crust. Top crust should be gashed in several places to let out 
the steam. 

NOTES: 



S 




V f 



Covering Tin With Under 
Crust 



Moistening Edges of Crust 
With Water 



[Lesson 63B] 



PIE 



[Page 163 J 




Vs tsp. nutmeg 
Few gratings lemon 



rind 



APPLE PIE 

5 sour apples 1 tsp. butter 

Vs tsp. salt Vi tsp. cinnamon 

% c. sugar 1 tsp. lemon juice 

Line pie plate with paste. Pare, core and cut apples and fill the pie. Mix the drv 
ingredients and lemon juice, and sprinkle over apples. Dot over with butter. Wet ed^es 
of under crust, cover with upper crust, pressing the edges close together. Bake in a hot 
oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until fruit is cooked. 




1 c. sugar 

3 tbsp. cornstarch 



2 egg yolks 
Juice 1 lemon 



LEMON PIE— I 

1 c. boiling water 
1 tsp. butter 

Grated rind 1 lemon 
Mix cornstarch and sugar; add to boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook until clear; 
add th^ butter, beaten yolks, lemon juice and rind. Cool. Line plate with paste. Prick the 
paste and bake. Fill with lemon mixture and cover with meringue and bake until meringue is 
brown. 



LEMON PIE- 

Juice 1 lemon 
Grated rind 1 lemon 



II 



3 yolks Juice 1 lemon Ve tsp. salt 

1 c. sugar Grated rind 1 lemon % c. milk 

3 tbsp. flour 

Mix sugar, flour and salt. Add to yolks. Add milk, lemon juice and rind to yolk mix- 
ture. Cover pie tin with paste. Brush with slightly beaten white of egg. Fill with yolk 
mixture and bake 20 minutes or more until done. Cover with meringue and brown in ovei,. 



MERINGUE 

White 2 eggs % tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. sugar or powdered sugar, and ^4 tsp. vanilla 
Beat tlie whites until stiff; fold in sugar and add flavoring. 

RHUBARB PIE 

IV2 c. rhubarb 1 scant c. sugar 1 egg 2 tbsp. flour 

Skin and cut rhubarb in Vi;-inch pieces. Mix sugar and flour; add egg and the sugar 
and flour. Line a plate with crust, cover with rhubarb, spread with egg mixture; cover with 
crust. Bake until fruit is cooked and crust is brown. 



[Page 164] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 64A] 



BULLETIN No. 28.— Average Composition^of American Food Products 



FOOD MATERIALS 

(as purchas3d) 


Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Fuel 

Value 

perPound 


FRUITS, BERRIES, ETC., Fresh: 


Per cent 

25.0 , 

35.0 

25.0 

30.0 

50.0 

27.0 

10.0 


Per cent 

63.3 

58^0 
62.5 
44.8 
63.4 
76.0 
66.1 
85.8 
85.9 
37.5 

28.1 
81.4 
13.8 
18.8 


Per cent 

.3 

.8 
1.0 

.7 

.3 

.6 

.5 

.8 
1.0 

.9 

.2 

1.6 

.9 

1.9 

4.3 


Per cent 

.3 
.4 
1.2 
.5 


Per cent 

10.8 
14.3 
14.4 

5.9 

4.6 

8.5 
12.7 
31.5 
12.0 

7.0 

2.7 

66.1 
17.3 
70.6 
74.2 


Per cent 
3 


Calories ! 
214 






n 


290 


C TIBS 


328 


T pmonsi 


140 




89 




.4 

.7 


169 




256 


Persimmons, edible portion 


614 

247 


Strawberries 

Watermelons 

FRUITS, Dried: 

Ar>nlp« 


5.0 
59.4 


2.2 


168 
57 

1,317 






.4 
1.6 


330 


Dates 


10.0 


2.5 
.3 


1,416 


Fiss 


2.4 


1,437 



TABLE 2.— Comparative cost of total nutrients and energy in fruits 





Price 

per 

pound 


Cost of 
1 pound 
protein 


Cost of 
1,000 
calories 
energy 


Amounts for 10 cents 




KIND OF FOOD MATERIAL 


Total 

weight 

of food 

materials 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Energy 


FRESH FRUITS 

Apples 


Cents 
1 5 

7.0 
4.0 
6.0 
4.0 
3.0 
3.0 
1.5 
7.0 
5,0 
5.0 
7.0 

'» 

12.0 
10.0 
15.0 
10.0 
10.0 

16.0 
5.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
20.0 


Dollars 
5.00 

8.75 
4.00 

10.00 
8.00 
6.00 
3.33 
7.50 
5.38 

12.50 
3.33 
7.00 
7.78 

7.50 
5.26 
3.50 
5.56 
4.35 

91.43 
10.00 
26.66 
32.00 
26.66 
32.00 
26.67 
53.33 
40.00 
53.33 
80.00 

53^33 
20.00 
83.33 


Cents 
7.3 
23.3 
11.9 
35.2 
25.1 
11.5 
8.1 
25.0 
25.9 
23.3 
18.9 
27.4 
40.0 

8.9 
6.9 
10.2 
8.4 
6.9 

13.8 
5.6 

13:2 
10.1 
37.2 
12.0 
12.2 
13.4 
10.5 
13.3 
47.1 
45.5 
53.2 
128.2 


Lbs. 
6.67 
1.43 
2.50 
1.67 
2.50 
3.33 
3.33 
6.67 
1.43 
2.00 
2.00 
1.43 
1.43 

.83 
1.00 

.67 
1.00 
1.00 

.62 
2.00 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.62 

^62 
.62 
.62 
.50 


Lbs. 

0.02 
.01 
.03 
.01 
.01 
.02 
.03 
.01 
.02 
.01 
.03 
.01 
.01 

.01 
.02 
.03 
.02 
.02 


Lbs. 
0.02 


Lbs. 

0.72 
.21 
.36 
.14 
.19 
.42 
.64 
.18 
.16 
.20 
.26 
.18 
.10 

.55 
.71 
.50 
.62 
.69 

.39 
.94 
.42 
.40 
.52 
.14 
.44 
.43 
.40 
.51 
.40 
.11 
.11 
.09 
.04 


Calories 
1,467 




429 




.03 


837 




284 


Peaches 




398 


.01 


866 


Plums 

Watermelons 

Blackberries 






400 


.01 
.01 


386 
430 




530 






365 


Strawberries 

DRIED FRUITS 


.01 

.02 
.03 


250 
1,121 




1,450 


Figs 


988 






1,190 




.03 


1.445 


JAMS, PRESERVES, ETC. 


727 




.01 




1,780 


Currant and raspberry jam 




781 






752 








983 








267 








833 








812 








744 








952 


Quince jelly 






750 




.01 




211 






220 








188 








78 











C. F. Langworthy, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



NOTES: 



[Lesson 64B] 



FROZEN FRUIT JUICE MIXTURES 



[Page 165] 




Strawberry Ice with Whipped Cream 

(See General Directions for Freezing in Lesson 39A) 

Water Ice is fruit juice sweetened, diluted with water, and frozen. 

Sherbet is a water ice mixture to which is added dissolved gelatine or beaten Avhites of 



Grated rind 2 oranges 
Grated rind 1 lemon 



Rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange 



Frappe is a water ice mixture frozen to a mush, using equal parts of ice and salt iu 
freezing. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 
Boil sugar and water 20 minutes. Add the fruit juice and rind (if used), cool, strain 
and freeze. 

ORANGE ICE 
4 c. water 2 c. orange juice 

2 c. sugar i{. c. lemon juice 

Follow general directions. 

LEMON ICE 
4 c. water % c. lemon juice 

2^2 c. sugar Juice of 1 orange 

Follow general directions. 

FRUIT ICE 
2 oranges 2 bananas 21/^ c. cold water 

2 lemons 2 c. strawberries or raspberries 2 c. sugar 

Rub the fruit thru a coarse strainer into a bowl, pour the cold water thru the strainer. 
Add sugar to the mixture, stir and freeze according to directions in Lesson 39 A. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

2 c. grated pineapple 2 c. sugar 1 tbsp. gelatine soaked in 

Juice 1 lemon 4 c. water ^4 c. cold water 

Boil the sugar and water 20 minutes. Add it to the soaked gelatine; when dissolved, 
add the fruit juices. Cool and freeze. 



GRAPE FRAPPE 

4 c. water 2 c. orange juice 

2 c. sugar 2 c. grape juice 

Follow general directions for freezing. 



1/3 c. lemon juice 



[Page 166] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 65A] 

JELLY MAKING 

Jellies are made, iii nearly all cases, of e(|ual (luantities of cooked fruit juices and sugar. 

GENERAL RULES 

Select under-ripe fruit for jelly making. Under-ripe fruit contains a substance called 
pectose; during the process of ripening, it is changed to pectin. Pectin does not readiiy 
unite with sugar to form a jelly, but pectose does, therefore in jelly, making we use fruit a 
little under-ripe. 

Prepare the fruit. Cut large fruit into pieces (use skin and core). With watery fruits, 
such as grapes, currants, etc., u.se no water. With apples, quinces, etc., use enough water 
to cover fruit. Boil the fruit until the juice can be drained out easily. Drain juice thru a 
jelly bag or double thickness of cheese cloth. 

Measure the juice and an equal quantity of sugar. 

Boil the fruit juice 20 minutes. Skim. Heat sugar in the oven. 

Add the heated sugar to the boiled fruit juice, continue boiling from 3 to 10 minutes, or 
until jelly stiffens when a little is tried on a cold plate. 

Strain jelly into a heated pitcher first, then pour it into sterilized glasses. (See 
Lesson 5B.) 

Put in a sunny window and let stand 24 hours. 

Cover; pour over each glass melted parafRn or use circular pieces of paper dipped in 
alcohol, sealing with white of egg; iir a tin cover. 

Keep in a cool, dry place. Label and date all glasses of jelly. 

JAMS 
JAMS are usually made with berries or small fruit (pulp, seeds and skin), cooked with 
an equal quantity of sugar. 

GENERAL RULES 
Prepare fruit and weigh. Measure an equal quantity of sugar; heat it. Cook the fruit 
mash with a wooden spoon while cooking, and stir to prevent burning. Cook 30 minutes, 
or until soft. Add heated sugar and cook 20 minutes, or until thick. Put into heated ster- 
ilized jars or glasses, cool and cover as for jellies. 
Pickling is preserving in any salt or acid liquor. 

GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING DRIED FRUIT 

Wash fruit thoroly in several waters. Cover with cold water and soak several hours 
or over night. Pour the water in which the fruit has been soaked into a saucepan. Heat 
to boiling point. Add the soaked fruit. 

Cook until fruit is soft. If not sweet enough add sugar and cook five minutes longer. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 65B] 



COOKED FRUITS 



[Page 161 



4 c. cranberries 



CRANBERRY SAUCE 

11/^ c. sugar 



1 c. boilino- watc 



Pick over and wash berries. Put into a saucepan with tlie boiling water and sugar, 
cover, and boil slowly 10 minutes. 

Stick cinnamon and quartered apples may be cooked with the cranberries. 




4 c. cranberries 



CRANBERRY JELLY 

2 c. boilino- water 



Sugar 



Pick over and wash berries; put into a saucepan with the water and boil 15 minutes, 
or until all the berries break open. Strain; add as much sugar as juice obtained; boil mix- 
ture 10 minutes and pour into moulds; cool and cover. Jellied cranberries may be made 
by cooking the berries in the sugar and water, pressing them occasionally while cooking until 
they burst. Pour into moulds and cool. 



STEWED APRICOTS 

3% c. dried apricots ^o c. sugar 

Follow directions for cooking dried fruit in Lesson 65A. 



3 c. boiling water 



STEWED PRUNES 



3 c. or 1 lb. prunes 
3 c. boiling water 



% c. sugar 

2 tbsp. lemon juice 



Follow directions for cooking dried fruit in Lesson 65A. Add the lemon juice just before 
taking off the fire. 



ORANGE MARMALADE (California Recipe) 

Select six large juicy oranges, ^^'ash, cut in quarters, slice quarters as thin as possible: 
add the juice of two lemons. 

To each pound of fruit add 2 pts. of water, let stand uncovered 24 hours, then boil 45 
minutes; again let stand uncovered 24 hours. Add pound of sugar to pound of fi-uit and 
boil 45 minutes, or until it jells when a little is tried on a cold plate. Pour into sterilized 
glasses. Label. 



[Page 168] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIP^NCE [Lesson 66A] 

ACID AND SALT SUPPLYING FOODS 

SALADS 

Simple Salads consist of fresh vegetables which require no cooking — as Lettuce, Endive, 
Cress, etc., served with a dressing. Cooked vegetables, meat, fish, eggs, cheese, or fruits are 
also used for salads. 

A salad must be served cold. 

The salad should be prepared daintily, and arranged attractively. 

Lettuce and other salad plants should be fresh, crisp and clean. 

Wash thoroly leaf by leaf, chill in very cold water, and dry by pressing between clean 
dry towels. 

Do not add the salad dressing to greens until just before serving. 

Use a fork in mixing salad ingredients. 

Do not leave a metal spoon or fork in the salad ingredients any length of time, a poison- 
ous compound may be formed. 

Salad greens are valuable for the water and potash salts they contain. 

A meat, fish or egg salad served with a cooked or mayonnaise dressing, contains a great 
deal of nourishment, and when served should be one of the chief foods of the meal. 

Serve a vegetable or ii fruit salad Avith a hearty meal. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

1/2 tsp. salt i/s tsp. paprika 4 tbsp. oil 

% tsp. pepper 2 tbsp. vinegar 

Mix ingredients in order given, stirring vigorously. 

To MARINATE means to moisten a salad mixture with French Dressing and then allow 
it to stand until well seasoned. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 
i/o tsp. salt 1,4 tsp. paprika 1 tbsp. vinegar 

1/2 tsp. sugar Yolk 1 egg % to 1 c. olive oil 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 
Mix dry ingredients; add yolk. When well mixed, add % tsp. vinegar. Add oil grad- 
ually, at first drop by drop, and stirring constantly. When very thick, add a few drops of 
vinegar or lemon juice, and continue to beat, adding oil and vinegar alternately, until the 
mixture is smoothly blended. The dressing should be thick enough to hold its shape. A Dover 
egg-beater is considered time and labor saving when used in beating the ingredients. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

3 yolks Ys c. vinegar Whipped cream 

Vs c. sugar ^4 tsp. salt 

Mix the yolks, sugar, salt and vinegar. Cook in a double boiler until thickened, stirring 
all the time. Remove from fire; when cool, add the desired quantity of whipped cream. 

Prepared mustard may be added to this dressing, using less sugar, it is then suitable 
for meat or vegetable combinations. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING (See Lesson 16B) 

NOTE. — Do not dilute vinegar with water: if too acid, use less of the vinegar. 




Fruit Salad 



[Lesson 66B] 



SALADS 



[Page 169] 



WATER LILY SALAD 

Remove shells from hard-cooked eggs. Cut eggs in halves crosswise or lengthwise, cutting 
in such a way that the edges will be cut into sharp points. Remove yolk, mash and season 
with salt, pepper and melted butter, or moisten with salad dressings. Refill whites with the 
yolk mixture, and arrange halves on ]o1(ii((> lra\c<. Serve with cooked salad dressing. 




MEAT SALAD (Chicken or Veal) 
Remove bones and gristle, fat and skin, from cold cooked meat. Cut meat into ^^-incli 
cubes and mix with it an equal amount of celery which has been scraped, chilled and cut in 
small pieces. Marinate with French Dressing. Add mayonnaise dressing to moisten. 
Arrange on lettuce leaves; garnish with curled celery. 

WALDORF SALAD 
Enough salad dressing to moisten 1 c. cubed apple 1 c. celery 1 c. nut meats 

Cut shce from tops of green or red apples; scoop out the inside pulp, leaving just enough 
to hold the skin in place. Fill the shells with the salad mixture and serve on lettuce leaves. 

FRUIT SALAD 

2 oranges i/4 lb. nialaga grapes 

3 bananas 4 slices pineapple (cubed) 

Mix vrith whipped cream or fruit salad dressing. 

Mav be served in orange cups. 

RUSSIAN SALAD 
1 c. cold cooked carrots (cubed) 1 c. cold cooked peas 

1 c. cold cooked potatoes (cubed 1 c. cold cooked string beans 

Marinate with French Di-essing. Arrange vegetables in a mound; make four sections. 
Cover two sections with finely chopped whites of hard-cooked eggs, and the other two with 
the hard-cooked yolks forced thru a potato ricer or strainer. Garnish with parsley. 



12 walnuts 

Salad dressing to moisten 




TOMATO SALAD 

8 medium sized tomatoes 2 c. celery or cucumber cut in cubes 1 c. Mayonnaise dressing 
Scald and peel tomatoes; slice off their tops. Scrape out the seeds and a little of tlic 
pulp, and fill cavities with the celery or cucumber, mixed with mayonnaise dressing, or fill 
with shredded pineapple and nuts mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Tomato may be cut 
to imitate a tiger lily by cutting into sixths almost to the stem end. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



[Page 170] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 67A] 

BEVERAGES 

A Beverage is any drink. All beverages contain a large percentage of water. 

Use freshly boiled vater for making hot beverages. 

Use freshly drawn water for making cold beverages. 

Beverages are: 1. Water. 2. Natural fruit juices. 3. Aromatics. Example: Tea, 
coffee, cocoa, chocolate. 

TEA 

Tea is a native of China, Japan and North East India. 

Tea is made from the leaves of an evergreen plant. 

Tea leaves have to be wilted, rolled and dried by artificial heat in order to develop their 
flavor. 

Green Tea is made from freshly picked young leaves, which are prepared quickly by 
drying them by heat or steam; they are sweated or roasted soon after gathering. Example: 
Gunpowder, Hyson and Japan. 

Black Tea is made from the leaves left in a heap on the ground in the sun, allowing 
them to ferment, in order to darken and develop a different flavor before being rolled. 
Example: Oolong, English Breakfast, etc. 

Tea contains a stimulating substance called THEIN, and TANNIN. 

Do not use a tin teapot, because of the tannin in the tea. 

Tea increases perspiration, and helps tired nerves to recover. 

People who do severe muscular labor are refreshed by a cup of tea. 

COFFEE 

Coffee is made from the seeds of the coffee plant grown in Africa, Mocha, Costa Rica, 
Brazil, Ceylon and Jamaica. 

The seeds of the berries of the coffee trees are roasted in order to develop the aroma. 

Coffee contains a stimulating substance called CAFFEINE, and TANNIN. 

Coffee increases the action of the heart, excites mucous membrane, decreases the action 
of the skin, and is a powerful antidote. 

Tannin is the injurious substance found in tea and coffee. It is extracted by boiling, 
therefore tea should always be infused and never boiled or allowed to steep too long. 

Filtered coffee is preferable to boiled coffee. Children and young people who have not 
stopped growing should not drink tea or coffee. 

Tea and Coffee should never be taken on an empty stomach unless for medicinal purposes. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 

Cocoa and Chocolate are prepared from the seeds of the cocoa beans dried and roasted. 

Cocoa Beans contain so much fat that when ground they become not powder but paste. 
This paste forms Chocolate. 

Cocoa is made by grinding the Cocoa Beans, extracting the oil, leaving a dry powder. 

Chocolate and Cocoa are a food as well as a stimulant. They contain theobromine, a 
substance similar to caffeine. 

NOTES: 



[Lesson 67B] BEVERAGES [Page 171] 

TEA 

To Make Tea. Allow one teaspoonful of tea to each cup of boiling water. Scald the 
teapot with boiling water, put in the tea, pour on the boiling water, and let it stand covered 
from three to five minutes. 

COFFEE 

To Make Filtered Coffee, allow 1 tbsp. of pulverized coffee to 1 c. boiling water. Scald 
the coffee pot. Put coffee in strainer; strainer in coffee pot; put on the range. Add gradually 
the boiling water and allow it to filter. Cover between additions of water. If desired 
stronger, refilter. This is considered the most economical way of preparing coffee. 

BOILED COFFEE 

% c. coffee !/{> c. cold water 1 egg 6 c. boiling water 

Scald graniteware coffee pot. Wash the egg, break, and beat it slightly. Dilute with 
one-half of the cold water; add crushed shell to it and mix with coffee. Turn into coflFee 
pot, pour on boiling water and stir thoroly. Place on fire and boil 3 minutes. If not boiled, 
coffee is cloudy; if boiled too long too much tannic acid is developed. The spout of the 
coffee pot should be stuffed with soft paper to prevent the escape of fragrant aroma. Add 
remaining half of cold water, let it stand 10 minutes on back of range. 

Left-over coffee may be used if poured oft' the grounds immediatelj-. Keep it in a cool 
place until needed. Never reheat coffee on the grounds. 

Boiling coffee in large bags is considered the least economical method of preparing coffee, 
as more coffee must be used in proportion to the quantity of water. 

BREAKFAST COCOA 

2 c. scalded milk Few grains salt 2 to 4 tbsp. sugar 

2 c. boiling water 2 tbsp. prepared cocoa 

Mix dry ingredients in saucepan; stir in boiling water gradually and boil 5 minutes. 
Add milk and cook 5 minutes longer, or until smooth and free from lumps. Mill with a 
Dover egg-beater to prevent albuminous skin from forming on top. 




A cup of cl'.ocolate with sandwiches. This combination makes a wholesome and nutritious 
lunch. 

CHOCOLATE 

1% sqrs. Baker's Chocolate Few grains salt 4 c. milk 

4 tbsp. sugar 1 c. boiling water 

Scald milk; melt chocolate in small saucepan placed over hot water; add sugar; salt, 
and gradually boiling water while stirring; when smooth, place on range, and boil one minute; 
add to scalded milk. Mill by beating with Dover egg-beater, and serve. 



[Page 172] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 68 A] 

INVALID COOKERY 

The selection, preparation and serving of food for invalids is of greatest importance. 

The food should be suited to the digestive powers of the patient, should be perfectly 
cooked and served attractively in small quantities. In serious illness consult the physician in 
attendance, and follow his directions exactly. Death may result from giving forbidden articles 
of food. 

All food is changed into liciuid during the process of digestion, before it can be absorbed 
into the blood. Liquid food carefully selected can therefore be digested with the smallest 
amount of exertion to the body. 

{Liquid 
Semi-solid or soft diet 
Solid or full diet 

Liquids. — Stimulants are boiled beef tea, broths, coll'ee, tea. 

Nutrients. — Milk, frozen cream, barley water, rice water, oatmeal water, toast water, 
albumenized milk, albumenized fruit waters, egg-nogs, chocolate, cocoa, bottled beef tea 
(Lesson 41A), etc. 

Refreshing Beverages are lemonade, orangeade, grape juice and water, currant, tamarind 
and apple water, etc. 

The fruit waters are cooling, refreshing and mildly stimulating, and are given to fever 
patients. 

Fruits are valuable for the salts and acids they contain. 

Semi-Solids. — Gruels — arrow-root, farina, oatmeal, cracker, Indian meal. Mushes— cooked 
cereals. Cream soups (Lesson llB). Oyster stew (Lesson 51B). Cooked eggs (Lesson 3oB). 
Custards (Lesson 36B). Soft toast (Lesson 7B). Gelatine desserts (Lessons 52B and 
53B), etc. 

Solids. — Raw Oysters — Chicken (Lesson 45B). Broiled chops (Lesson 42B). Baked potato 
(Lesson 19B). Hot sandwiches (Lesson 8B). Foods that are nutritious and easily digestible 
are included in the full diet. 

Gruels and the various breakfast foods, thoroly cooked, with or without fruit, are 
valuable. 

Corn and oatmeal gruels should not be given in inllainmatory cases, as they are heat- 
producing. 

The starch in arrow-root is more easily digested than any other form of starch. 

Cooked eggs, dropped eggs on toast, sci-ambled, omelets, etc., soft custards, baked cus- 
tards, and the'fruit whips made with white of egg. and sweetened fruit, are all nutrients 
and easily digested. 

Frozen cream and cream whips with gelatine are very valuable 
dishes in the sick room, as they are both highly nutritious and 
palatable. 

The cream soups. oyster stew, etc.. with toast orcrackers. make 
a desirable lunch for a convalescent. 

Set the tray just as daintily as possible. 

Use the best china, etc., lay a blossom on the tray, or anything 
to please the eye. 

Serve hot dishes hot; cold dishes cold. 

Serve one course at a time. Have as many 
surprises as possible. 

In contagious diseases all dishes, plate- 
knives, forkd, etc.. should be sterilized (by put- 
ting them in cold water, bringing them to 
boiling point and boihng 2 hours), after each 
time they have been used. Burn all particles of 
food left over. 

NOTES: 





[Lesson 68B] 



INVALID COOKERY 



[Page 173] 




LIQUIDS— BARLEY WATER 

] % tbsp. pearl barley Sugar to taste 

1 qt. cold water 2 tbsp. lemon juice or moi'e 

Wash then soak BARLEY in cold water over night. Boil in the same water several 
hours. Strain, add lemon juice and sugar. Strawberry, raspberry or grape juice may be 
added. Soothing and refreshing. Valuable in bronchial or pulmonary trouble. 

RICE WATER 

1 tbsp. rice 2 c. water Salt Milk, cream or fruit juice 

Heat water to boiling point; wash rice; add rice and salt to boiling water, cook until rice 

is soft, strain, add cream or fruit juice to the water. 

BARLEY and Rice waters are known as astringents. If stick cinnamon be cooked with 

the rice or barley, it will help to produce a laxative condition. 

TOAST WATER 

EQUAL measures of stale bread, toasted, and boiling water, 
strain^ serve hot or cold. Given in extreme cases of nausea. 

ORANGE ALBUMEN 

White 1 egg Juice 1 sour orange Sugar to taste 

3 tbsp. crushed ice 
Beat white or egg slightly, add orange juice and crushed ice. Mix in a gh 
to taste. Lemon may be used in place of the orange. 



Let stand one hour. Season. 



and sweeten 



MILK ALBUMEN 

White 1 egg % c milk 

Beat white slightly; add milk and salt. 



Few grains salt 



1 tbsp. vanilla or other 
flavoring 



EGG NOGG 

1 egg % c. milk 

% tbsp. sugar Few grs. salt 

Beat egg slightly, add sugar, salt and flavoring, and then add the milk gradually. Strain 
and serve. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 
% c. oatmeal (rolled oats) iVj qts. water % c. cream 1 tsp. salt 

Cook oatmeal in the water and salt for three hours or more. Strain. Add cream. Nour- 
ishing and fattening. Valuable in anaemic and tubercular cases. 




Egg in Nest 



[Page 174] BASIC PRIXaFLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson69A] 



DIETARY STUDIES 

The calorie is the unit of heat or energy of the human body. It is tlie basis for deter- 
mining the fuel value of foods. 

STANDARD FOR PERSON ENGAGED IN MODERATE MUSCULAR WORK 

As given by C. F. Langworthy, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Calories 

Protein, 105 grams (0.231 lb.) to yield 419 

Fats, 125 grams (0.275 lb.) to yield 1,100 

Carbohydrates, 495 grams (1.09 lb.) to yield 1.9S1 

Total .3,500 

This standard is intended to represent the food actually eaten and does not include 
waste of any kind. 

STANDARDS FOR FOOD AS PURCHASED 

Calories 

Protein, 115 grams (0.253 lb.) yielding 460 

Fats, 125 gi-ams (0.275 lb.) yielding 1.100 

Carbohydrates, 560 grams (1.235 lb.) yielding 2.240 

Total ; 3.800 

Factors used in calculating meals consumed in dietary studies are as follows: 

Man at hard muscular work requires 1.2 the food of a man at moderately active 
muscular work. 

Man with light muscular work and boy 15 to 16 years old requires 0.9 the food of a 
man at moderately active muscular work. 

Man at sedentary occupation, woman at moderately active work, boy 13 to 14 and girl 15 
to 16 years old require O.S the food of a man at moderately active muscular work. 

Woman at light work, boy 12. and girl 13 to 14 years old require 0.7 the food of a man 
at moderately active muscular work. 

Boy 10 to 11 and girl 10 to 12 years old require 0.6 the food of a man at moderately 
active muscular work. 

Child 6 to 9 years old requires 0.5 the food of a man at moderately active muscular 
work. 

Child 2 to 5 years old requires 0.4 the food of a man at moderately active muscular work. 

Child under 2 years old requires 0.3 the food of a man at moderately active muscular 
work. 

With this information, and aided by the tables pubhshed by the U. S. Government, we 
can easily make an estimate of the nutrients contained in each meal and arrange the day's 
menu so it will conform with the required standard. When calculations are necessary, the 
following table may be of assistance: 

1 pound equals 453.54 grams. 

1 gram of protein yields about 4 calories. 

1 gram of fat yields about 8.90 calories. 

1 gram of carbohydrates yields 4 calories. 
I'. S. Department of Agi'iculture. 
References Farmers' Bulletin Xo. 142. 



[Lesson 69B] 



DIETARY STUDIES 



[Page 175] 



MENU IX. For family eqivalent to 4 men at moderate muscular work 



FOOD MATERIALS 






Weight 


Cost 


Protein 


Fuel 
Value 


Corn meal, in mush and cake 
Milk 


Breakfast 






Lbs. 



Oz. 
5 
6 
2 

10 
2 


Centa 

1 
1 

i 


Pounds 

0.022 

.012 

;059' 


Calories 

414 








64 




232 




753 




434 


















8 


.093 


1,894 














Dinner 

Beef roll 


Weight 


Cost Protein 


Fuel 
Value 


Supper 

Beans, baked, . 

Pork 

Potatoes,- 

fried 

Lard 

Bread 

Butter 

Total 


1 



12 

8 
2 
10 
2 


6 

2 
1 

r 


.446 
.012 

.026 


3,180 
2,556 


lbs. oz. 
3 


Cts. 
15 

2 

1 

? 


Lbs. 
.417 
.026 
.007 
.059 


Clrs. 

2.280 
488 
85 
753 
434 




1 8 
8 
10 
2 


488 




537 


Bread 


.0.59 


753 




4.34 










Total 




23 J .509 


4,040 






20i 


.543 


7,948 












20i 


1.145 


13,885 




per...- 










Total for one man, Brea 


kfast, D 


nner. 


and Sup 






13 


.285 


3,471 



MENU X.— For family equivalent to 4 men at moderate muscular work 



FOOD JflATERLALS 


Weight 


Cost 


Protein 


Fuel 
Value 


Breakfast 


Lbs. 


1 

1 


Oz. 

6 



2 


10 

1 


Cents 
2 

:' 

6 

n 


Pounds 

0.059 

.034 


Calories 
697 


Skim milk, 1 pint 


170 
232 


Bread (homemade) 


.095 
.080 


1,205 


Sausage 


1,358 
217 








Total 






Ui 


.268 


3,879 


Dinner 

Beef flank, stew . 

Potatoes (60 cents per bushel) 

Cabbage 

Corn-meal pudding: 


2 
2 


8 

12 

4 


12 


15 
3 

1 

3' 

1 


.430 
.054 
.013 

.022 
.068 
.020 


2,988 
975 
105 

414 


Skim milk, 1 quart 

Molasses 


340 

987 


Total . 






22§ 


.604 


5,809 


Supper - 








1 
2 

2 


8 

2 



3 

6 
3 
6 


.086 
.340 


598 




2,600 




434 




.033 


325 












18 


.259 


3,957 
















55 


1.134 


3,645 










Total for one man 







14 


.285 


3,411 



D. S. Department of Agriculture. 



[Page 176] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



[Lesson 70A] 



Average Composition of American Food Products 
Food materials (as purchased). 



Animal Food 



I Refuse 
Per cent 



BEEF, Fresh: 

Chuck, including shoulder. 

Chuck ribs 

Flank 

Loin 

Porterhouse steak 

Sirloin steak 



Round 

BEEF, Corned, Canned, Pickled and 
Dried: 

Corned beef 

Tongue, pickled 

Dried, Salted and Smoked 

VEAL: 

Breast 

Leg 

Leg cutlets 

MUTTON: 

Flank 

Leg, hind 

Shoulder 

LAMB: 

Breast 

Leg, hind 

PORK, Fresh: 

Flank 

Ham • 

Loin chops 

Shoulder 

Tenderloin 

PORK, Salted, Cured and Pickled: 

Ham, smoked 

Shoulder, smoked 

Salt pork 

Bacon, smoked 

SAUSAGE: 



Farmer 

Frankfort 

SOUPS: 

Celery, cream of 

Beef 

Meat stew 

Tomato 

POULTRY: 

Chicken, broilers 

Fowls 

Goose 

Turkey -. 

FISH: 

Cod, dressed 

Halibut, steaks or sections. 

Mackerel, whole 

Perch, yellow, dressed 

Shad, whole 

Shad, roe 

FISH, Salt: Cod 

FISH, Canned: 

Salmon 

Sardines 

SHELLFISH: 

Oysters, "Solids" 

Clams 

Crabs 

Lobsters 



17.3 
19.1 

5.5 
13.3 
12.7 
12.8 
20.1 

8.5 



18.0 
10.3 
19.3 
12.4 



Water 
Per cent 





54.0 
53.8 
56.1 
52.9 
52.4 
54.0 
45.3 
62.5 



49.2 
58.9 
53,7 



23.3 
11.7 
3.4 


52.5 
63.4 


9.9 
17.7 
22.1 


39.0 
51.9 
46.8 


19.1 
13.8 


45.5 
50.3 



48.5 
45.1 
40.8 
44.9 
66.5 



55.2 
22.2 
57.2 

88.6 
92.9 
84.5 
90.0 

43.7 
47.1 
38.5 
42.4 

58 5 
61.9 
40.4 
50.7 
35.2 
71.2 
40.2 

56.8 
53.6 



■^ I 



Protein 
Per cent 



15.8 
15.3 
18.6 
16.4 
19.1 
16.5 
14.4 
19.2 



14.3 
11.9 
26.4 

15.7 
18.3 
20.1 

13.8 
15.4 
13.7 



15.1 
14.3 
13.2 
12.0 

18.9 

14.5 
12.6 
1.9 
9.5 



2.1 

4.4 
4.6 
1.8 

12.8 
13.7 
13.4 



11.1 
15.3 
10.2 
12.8 



6.0 
10.6 
7.9 
5 9 



Fat 
Per cent 



12.5 
11.1 
19.9 
16.9 
17.9 
16.1 
20.0 
9.2 



23.8 
19.2 
6.9 

8.2 
5.8 
7.5 

36.9 
14.5 
17.1 

19.1 
19.7 

18.6 
29.7 
26.0 



33.0 
86.2 
59.4 

19.7 
40.4 
18.6 







Fuel 


Carbo- 


Ash 


Value 


hydrates 




Per lb. 


Per cent 


Per cent 


Calories 



4.2 
5.0 
3.9 
4.5 



.7 
.9 
.7 
1.5 
18.5 

2.0 
5.3 

1.1 
2.3 
1.5 



From the U. S. Department of .\griculture. 



NOTES: 



[U'ssun 70B] 



DIETARY STUDIES 



[Pai 



MENU IV.— For family equivalent to 4 men at moderate muscular work 



FOOD MATERIALS 



Weight 



Fuel 
Value 



Baked apples. . 
Boiled hominy . 
Milk 



Sugar 

Broiled sirloin. . . 

Potatoes 

Muffins: 

1 egg 

2 cups flour . 

Butter 

Coffee 



Total . 



Tomato soup 

Veal stew, shoulder. 

Potatoes 

Apple dumpling: 
1 egg 

4 apples 

5 cup lard 

1 cup flour 

Sauce for dumpling: 

Butter 

Sugar 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee or tea 



Total. 



Dried canned corned beef . 

Potato croquette 

Biscuit 

Butter 

Oranges, 4 

Skim milk 



Supper or Lunch 



Total 

Total for day . 
Total for one i 



Lbs. Oz. 
2 



Cents 
2 



Pounds 

0.008 

.041 



31 I 



Calories 
510 
823 
202 
350 
650 
162 

162 
820 
435 
410 



.553 I 



H I 



370 

1,350 

975 

81 

382 

1,055 

410 

217 
465 
904 
217 
410 



560 
162 
,297 



400 
234 



103 I 14,333 



.275 I .3,585 



U. 



Department of Agriculture. 



[Page 178] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 71A] 

Menus for Balanced Meals 



[Lesson 71B] 



BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC^ SCIENCE 



[Page 179J 



MENU I. For family equivalent to 4 men at moderate muscular work 



FOOD MATERIALS 



Cereal, oatmeal . 
Milk 



Sugar 

Bacon 

Eggs, 4 

Baked potatoes 

Buckwheat cakes, prepared buckwheat. 

Maple syrup 

Bread 

Butter 

Coffee 



Total. 



Bouillon 

Roast lamb, leg. . . . 
Mashed potatoes . . . 

Cucumbers 

Green peas, shelled. 
Macaroni 



Fruit pudding: 

1 cup flour 

Sugar 

1 egg 

i cup milk 

1 cup fruit 

Foamy sauce for pudding: 

1 egg 

i cup milk 

I cup sugar 

Bread 

Butter 

Tea or coffee 



Total. 



Chicken croquettes: 

Chicken meat. . 

Flour 

Onions 

1 egg 

Bread 

Lettuce 

Bread 

Butter 

Cake 



Supper or Lunch 



Berries 

Chocolate or cocoa, with milk and sugar, cream. 



Total 

Total per day 

Total for one man . 



Weight 



Lbs. Oz. 
3 



Cents 
2i 



Value 



Pounds 

0.029 

.012 





020 

228 
018 
009 
072 
029 
049 

028 




016 
008 
013 

016 
010 




036 




010 



Calories 
350 
64 
232 
1,390 
322 
325 
780 
327 
fi03 
225 
410 



45 

1,282 

325 

52 
382 
410 



410 

465 



102 
465 
452 
217 
410 



U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



[Page 180] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE [Lesson 72A] 

TEST QUESTIONS 



COMPANY LUNCHEON 

YELLOW COLOR SCHEME 

Cream of Veal Soup 

Garnished with Yellow Custard 

Curled Celery Olives 

Meat Croquettes 

Buttered Carrots and Peas in Potato Cases Bechamel Sauce 

Fruit Salad in Orange Cups 

Cheese Straws Salted Almonds 

Lemon Pudding 

Angel's Food Whipped Cream 

Coffee 



[Lesson 72B] COMPANY LUNCHEON [Page 181; 











I 



MENU II 

PINK COLOR SCHEME 

Crab Meat Cocktail 
Cream of Tomato Soup Zephyrettes 

Lamb Chops 

Creamed Potatoes Relish in Lemon Boats 

Rolls Butter Balls 

Neufchatel Cheese and Pimento Salad 
Salad Rolls 

Strawberry Charlotte Strawberry Sauce 

White Cake— Pink Frosting 

Coffee 



COST OF PREPARING ABOVE MENUS TO SERVE SIX 
Materials Quantity Cost 



[Page 182] 



BASIC PRI^X'IPLES OF U0MP:,ST1C SCIENCE 



INDIVIDUAL RECIPES— SEMESTER IV. 



LESSON 55B 



1 small piece liver 
1 sliee bacon 



1 tsp. bacon fat 
114 tsp. flour 



c. boiling water 



DOUGHNUTS I 

:l tbsp. sugar 

1 tsp. butter 

11/2 tbsp. beaten eg^ 

2 tbsp. milk 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Vi> apple 
6 tbsp. Hour 
1/2 tS]). B. ]'. 



LESSON 56B 

7 tbsp. flour (plus enc 
to roll) or i/> cup scant 
% tsp. B. P. 
Few ars. cinuaiuon 



% tsp. sugar 
Few ors. salt 



STEAMED BREAD 

'.) tbsp. graham Hon 

Vs tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. Indian meal 

Vs tsp. soda 

1 tbsp. molasses 

31/5 tbsp. milk 



LESSON 57B 



Few grs. nutmeg 
Vo tsp. salt 



2% tbsp. milk 

1 tbsp. beaten egj: 



STEAMED PUDDING 

:: tbs]). entire wlieat flour 
1-1(5 tsp. soda 
1-16 tsp. salt 
1 tbsp. molasses 
1 tbsp. milk 

1 tsp. beaten egg 

V< tsp. melted butter 

2 tbsp. raisins 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 tbsp. boiling water 

2 tbsp. milk 
2 tsp. sugar 



LESSON 58B 



14 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. butter 

6 tbsp. flour (plus) 



■ast cake mixed with 
tbsji. lukewarm water 



WHITE BREAD 

1 tbsp. scalded 

2 tbsp. boiling 
1 tsp. butter 



LESSON 59B 

Vr, tsp. salt 

i/i> tsp. sugar 

1 veast cake mixcil witli 



1 tbs]i. lukewarm water 
c. flour (plus; 



QUICK CAKE 

1 tbsp. butter 

2% tbsp. brown sugar 

1 tbsp. beaten egg 

1 tbsp. milk 

.'iy. tbsp. flour (hr;;:d) 
'/, tsp. B. P. 
Few grs. cinnamon 
Few grs. nutmeg 

2 dates cut in pieces 



LESSON GOB 

ORANGE CAKE 

1 tbsp. butter 
314 tbsp. sugar 

2 tsp. beaten egg 
Vr, oiange rind 

2 tbsp. milk 
7 tbsp. flour 
% tsp. B. P. 



LESSON 60A 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

4 tsp. butter 
2% tbsp. sugar 
4 tsp. beaten egg 

4 tsp. milk 

5 tbsp. flour 
1/0 tsp. B. P. 

1/2 square chocolate (melted) 
Few drops vanilla 



ORANGE FILLING 

4 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. flour 
1,4 beaten egg 
Orated rind 14 orange 

2 tbsp. orange juice 
14 tsp. lemon juice 



ORANGE FROSTING 

1 tsp. orange juice 
Va tsp. lemon juice 
Rind 1/2 orange 
1/2 yolk of egg 
Confectioners' sugar 



INDIVIDUAL RFXIPES— SEMESTER IV. 
LESSON 61B 



[Page 183] 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

1 yolk 

4 tbsp. sugar 

% tbsp. water 

ANGEL'S FOOD 

1 White (beaten) 
Vs tsp. C. of T. 



SUGAR COOKIES 

lo tbsp. butter 

1 tbsp. sugar 

% tbsp. beaten egg 

PEANUT COOKIES 

i/i; tbsp. butter 

1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. beaten egg 

BOSTON COOKIES 

1 tbsp. butter 
ijtbsp. sugar 

2 tsp. egg 

RICH COOKIES 

2 tsp. sugar 1 tlisp. 



1 tsp. CDriistareh 
4 tbsp. Hour 
1,0 tsp. B. P. 



2 tbsp. sugar 
1^2 tbsp. ilour 

LESSON 62B 

1 tsp. milk 

3 tbsp. flour (plus eiioug 
to make a dough j 



2 tbsp. flour 
V4 tsp. B. P. 
Few grs. salt 
1% tsp. milk 

1-15 tsp. soda 
Vs tsp. hot water 

3 tbsp. flour 
Few grs. salt 

liutter 14 yolk 

LESSON 63A 



PASTRY 

^2 c. flour 



APPLE FILLING 

1 large apple 
Few grs. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar 

LEMON FILLING 

1/3 c. sugar 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 

MERINGUE 

1 beaten white 



CRANBERRY JELLY 

^■> c. cranberries 



ORANGE ICE 

6 tbsp. water 
3 tbsp. sugar 



FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

1 yolk 

1^2 tbsp. sugar 



FRUIT SALAD 

14 orange 

CHOCOLATE 

% square chocolate 



Yq tsp. salt 

4 tsp. to 2% tbsp. butter 

LESSON 63B 

1/4 tsp. butter 
Few grs. cinnamon 
1/4 tsp. lemon juice 



Vs c. boiling water 
1/3 tsp. butter 
1 yolk 

1 tbsp. sugar 

LESSON 65B 

14 c- boiling water 

LESSON 64B 

3 tbsp. orange juice 

1 tsp. lemon juice 

LESSON 66A 

l^o tbsp. vinegar 
Few grs. salt 

LESSON 66B 

Ys banana 
3 grapes 

2 tbsp. sugar 

3 tbsp. boiling water 



Few grs. salt 

1 White (beaten) 

Few drops lemon or vanilla 



Few grs. salt 
8 drops vanilla 



Vh tsp. B. P. 
Few grs. salt 
Few grs. nutmeg 



3 tbsp. finely chopped pea- 
nuts 
Ys tsp. lemon juice 



1-12 tsp. cinnamon 
1 tbsp. cliopped nuts 
!{; tbsp. chopped raisins 



I/O tsp. cream i/4 cup flour 

About 11/2 tbsp. cold water 



Few gratings lemon rind 
Few grs. nutmeg 



1% tbsp. lemon juice 
Rind 1/3 lemon 



1/2 c. sugar 



Grated rind Vo orange 
Few gratings lemon rind 



2 tbsp.whipped cream 



% slice pineapple 
73 c. milk 



[Page 184] i'.ASIC PRIXCII'LES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: 



[Page 1S5] 



[Page 186] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: 



[Page 187] 



[Page 188J BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SaENCE 



NOTES: 



[Page 189] 



[Page 190] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



NOTES: 



[Page 191] 



[Page 192] BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



INDEX 



Abbreviations 13 

Absorption 148 

Acid and Salt Supplying Foods 98-168 

Air 24 

Air in Its Relation to Cookery 32 

Air in Its Relation to Fire 26 

Air in Its Relation to Life 24 

Albumen, Experiments 100 

Angel's Food 159 

Apples, Baked 25 

Apple Fritters 149 

Apple John 73 

Apple Fie 163 

Apples, Scalloped 31 

Apple Snow 35 

Apples, Sweet Pickled 99 

Apple Tapioca 37 

Approximate Measure of One Pound. ... 66 

Apricots, Stewed 167 

Asparagus, Boiled 15 

Asparagus, Canned 17 

Assimilation 148 

Average Composition of American Food 

Products 158-164-176 

Average Composition of Eggs 100 

Average Composition of Wheat Flour.. . . 58 

Bacon Recipes 147 

Bacon I 147 

Bacon II 147 

Baked Apples 25 

Baked Bananas 25 

Baked Beans 147 

Baked Bean Soup 27 

Baked Custards 103 

Baked Fish 127 

Baked Macaroni With Cheese 59 

Baked Potatoes 51 

Baking Powder 62 

Composition — Recipe 62 

Biscuits 71 

Experiments 62 

Bananas, Baked 25 

Barley Water 172 

Batters 60-61 

Bechamel Sauce 125 

Beef 118 

Beef a la Mode 113 

Beef, Cuts of 116 

Beef, Essence, Broiled 112 

Beef, How to Prepare 118 

Beef Loaf Ill 

Beef Roast Sandwich, Hot 23 

Beef Stew 113 

Beef Tea 112 

Beets — Boiled 15 

Beverages 170 

Biscuits 152 

Blackberries, Preserved 99 

Blueberry Cakes . , , 71 



Boston Cookies 161 

Braizing 117 

Bread 75-152-155 

Bread, Beaten 74 

Bread, Entire Wheat 155 

Bread, Graham 75 

Bread, Rolled Oats 75 

Bread, Rye 155 

Bread, White 155 

Bread, Whole Wheat .1 75 

Bread, Whole Wheat II 75 

Bread Griddle Cakes 61 

Bread Pudding, Custard 103 

Breaded Veal Cutlets 123 

Breakfast 41 

Broiling 115 

Broiled Beef Essence 112 

Broiled Fish 127 

Broiled Steak 115 

Brown Sauce 125 

Buying Milk 104 

Cabbage, Boiled 15 

Cabbage Salad 39 

Cabbage, Shredded 39 

Cake 68-69-157 

Cake Fillings and Frostings 156 

Cakes Without Butter 159 

Candy, Chocolate Fudge, French Cream, 
Peanut Candy, Pinoche, Sea Foam, 

Taffy 57 

Canned Fruits. Apples, Cherries, Peaches, 

Pears, Plums, Yellow Tomatoes 99 

Canning. General Directions for 17-98 

Canning and Preserving Fruit 98 

Canning Vegetables, Directions for 17 

Caper Sauce 129 

Caramel Custard 103 

Caramel Ice Cream 109 

Carbohydrates 50-52-54-56 

Care of Dishes 12 

Care of Dish Cloths and Towels 11 

Care of Dust Cloths 11 

Care of Refrigerator 18 

Care of Sink 18 

Care of Sweeping Utensils 10 

Care of Utensils 20 

Carrots, Boiled 15 

Cauliflower, Boiled 15 

Celery, Boiled 15 

Celery Soup, Cream of 29 

Cereals 52-53 

General Rules for Cooking 52 

Cereal Omelet 53 

Cheap Sponge Cake 159 

Cheese 106 

Cheese Dishes 107 

Cheese Canapes 23 

Cheese Custard 103 

Cheese Fondue . . . , , .; 1 1 1 •!•,.. • 107 



[Page 194] 



INDEX 



Cheese Sandwiches — Toasted 107 

Cheese Souffle 107 

Cheese Straws 107 

Chemical Treatment of Foods 16 

Cherries, Canned 99 

Cliicken Croquettes 123 

Chicken — How to Dress, Clean, Stuff and 

Truss 121 

Chicken Loaf Ill 

Chicken, Roast 121 

Chicken Sandwich, Hot 23 

Chocolate 170 

Chocolate Cake 157 

Chocolate Cookies 161 

Chocolate Custard 103 

Chocolate Eclaire 34 

Chocolate Frosting 34-1.56 

Chocolate Fudge .57 

Chocolate Ice Cream 109 

Chocolate Loaf Cake 69 

Chocolate, to Make 171 

Clams 132 

Cleanliness, Necessity for 9 

Cleanliness of Person 9 

Cleanliness of Room 10 

Club House Sandwich 23 

Cocoa 170 

Cocoa, Breakfast '. 171 

Cocoanut Cookies 161 

Coffee 170 

Coffee, Boiled 171 

Coffee, Filtered 171 

Cold Slaw 139 

Cold Storage 16 

Combustion 26 

Company Luncheon 181 

Comparative Cost of Foods, Used in Bat- 
ters and Doughs 70 

Composition of Fish, Mollusks, Crusta- 
ceans, etc 128-130 

Composition of Meats 124 

Cooked Fruits 167 

Cookies 161 

Corn 64 

Corn Cakes 63 

Corn, Canned 17 

Corn Meal Gems 63 

Corn Oysters 19 

Corn Soup, Cream of 29 

Cottage Cheese 105 

Course Luncheon 138 

Crabs 132 

Crabapples — Sweet Pickled 99 

Crackers and Cheese 29 

Cranberry Jelly 167 

Cranberry Muffins 63 

Cranberry Sauce 167 

Cream Cakes 69 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches 77 

Cream Filling 34 

Cream PuflFs 34 

Cream Sponge Cake 159 

Cream Toast 21 

Cream Tomato Sauce 125 

Cream of Vegetable Soups. Celery, Corn, 

Pea, Potato, Tomato '. 29 

Creamed Oysters 133 



Creamed Potatoes 51 

Croquettes, Preparation 123 

Croustades of Bread 21 

Croutons 27 

Custards, Baked 103 

Custard Bread Pudding 103 

Custard Sauce 35 

Cuts of Beef 116 

Definition of Meat 110 

Dietary Studies 174-175-177 

Different Ways of Preparing Vegetables. 19 

Digestion 148 

Processes, Organs 148 

Dinner — Directions 42 

Directions for Canning Vegetables 17 

Directions for Canning and Preserving 

Fruit 98 

Directions for Freezing 108 

Directions for Soup-Making 112 

Dough 60 

Doughnuts I 1 49 

Doughnuts II 149 

Drawn Butter Sauce 129 

Dried Fruits — General Rules for Cooking.166 

Drop Batter 60 

Drying Foods ^ 16 

Dry Toast 21 

Dutnplings for Stews 71 

Dusting 11 

Eggs. Composition and Experiments. .. 100 

Eggs, Cooked 101 

Eggs a la Goldenrod 21 

Eggs, Hard and Soft Cooked 101 

Egg Nogg 173 

Eggs, Poached 101 

Egg Sandwich 7? 

Egg Sauce 129 

Eggs, Scalloped 31 

Eggs, Scrambled 101 

Eggs, Stuffed 101 

Elimination 148 

Entire Wheat Bread 155 

Entire Wheat Pudding 151 

Equivalents 1-3 

Fairy Gingerbread 67 

Fat as a Frying Medium 149 

Fats and Oils. Sources, Uses, Digestion. 

Etc 146 

Fish. Methods of Cooking and Cleaning. 126 

Fish Baked 127 

Fish Balls 131 

Fish, Boiled 127 

Fish, Broiled 127 

Fish, Composition of 126 

Fish Croquettes 131 

Fish, Fried 127 

Fish Sauces and Stuffings 129 

Fish, Sauted 127 

Fish Stuffing 129 

Fish, Turban of 131 

Floating Island 55 

Flour Mixtures 60 

Food 

Definition, Principles 36-68 

Food Preservation 16 



INDEX 



[Page 195] 



Food Value of Nuts 160 

Freezing 108 

French Cream 57 

French Fried Potatoes 123 

French Salad Dressing 168 

Fresh Eggs 102 

Fried Fish 127 

Fried Oysters 31 

Frozen Fruit Juice Mixtures 165 

Frozen Milk and Cream Mixtures 109 

Fruits '98 

Fruit Dumplings 73 

Fruit Ice 165 

Fruit Salad 169 

Fruit Salad Dressing , 168 

Fruit Sandwiches 77 

Fruit Tapioca and Sago Pudding 37 

Frying 122-123 

Game 110 

Gelatine 134 

Gelatine Desserts 137 

General Directions for Batters and 

Doughs 60 

General Directions for Making Bread 

that Requires No Kneading 74 

General Directions for Serving Breakfast 41 
General Rules for Cooking Vegetables. . . 15 

German Toast 25 

Gingerbread 67 

Graham Bread 75 

Graham Muffins 63 

Grape Frappe 165 

Grape Sauce 35 

Gravy 119 

Green Corn, Boiled 15 

Green Peas, Boiled 15 

Griddle Cakes 01 

Ham and Egg Sandwich 77 

Hamburg Steak 115 

Hard Cooked Eggs 101 

Hard Sauce 151 

Hollandaise Sauce I 129 

Hollandaise Sauce TI 129 

Horseradish Sauce • 129 

Hot Meat Sandwiches 23 

Hot-Water Gingerbread 67 

How to Break an Egg 102 

How to Build a Fire 30 

How to Combine Ingredients 13 

How to Make Ice Cream or Ices With- 
out a Freezer 108 

How to Preserve Eggs 102 

Hunter's Pudding 151 

Ice Cream 109 

Imperial Sticks 29 

Individual Recipes for First Semester. 44-45 
Individual Recipes for Second Semester.80-81 
Individual Recipes for Third Semes- 
ter 140-141 

Individual Recipes for Fourth Semes- 
ter 182-183 

Invalid Cookery 172-173 

Kinds of Meat 110 



Jams 166 

Jams — General Rules 166 

.Jellies 166 

Jellv Making — General Rules 166 

Junket 105 

Lamb 110 

Laying the Table 40 

Lemon Ice 165 

Lemon Jelly 135 

Lemon Pie I and II 163 

Lemon Pudding 137 

Lemon Sauce 25 

Lemon Syrup 61 

Lettuce Sandwiches 77 

Lima Beans — Boiled 15 

Liquids 173 

Liver and Bacon 147 

Lobsters 132 

Luncheon Prepared from Left-Overs .... 43 



Macaroni 

Macaroni, Boiled 

Macaroni Salad 

Macaroni With Cheese 

Macaroni With Tomato Sauce 

Macaroni With AVhite Sauce 

Maitre de Hotel Butter 

Mashed Potatoes 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Meat 

Meat Experiments 112- 

Meat Jellies 

Meat Loaf Mixtures 

Meat Loaf 

Meat, Methods of Cooking 

110-112-114-117- 

Meat Salad 

Meat Sandwich 

Meat Sauces 

Measuring 

Menus 43-79-139-178- 

Meringue 

Methods of Cooking and Cleaning Fish . . 

Methods of Cooking Meat 

, 110-112-114-117- 

Milk 

Milk Albumen 

Milk, Composition 

Milk Products 

Milk Sherbet 

Milk Toast 

Mint Sauce 

Muffins — Plain, Graham, Oatmeal, Cran- 
berry 

Mutton 



59 

59 

59 

59 

59 

59 

115 

51 

168 

110 

114 

134 

111 

111 

119 
169 

77 
125 

13 
179 
163 
126 

119 
104 
173 
104 
104 
109 
21 
125 



110 



Norwegian Prune Pudding 37 

Nut Cake, Loaf 69 

Nut Ice Cream 109 

Nutrients 172 

Oatmeal Gruel 173 

Oatmeal Muffins 63 

Oatmeal Musli With Apples 53 

Object of Cooking Meat 114 

Oils 146 

Omelets 33 



[Page 196] 



INDEX 



Omelet, Cereal 53 

Omelet, Oyster 33 

Omelet, Plain 33 

Omelet, With Meat and Vegetables 33 

Onions, Boiled 15 

Orange Albumen 173 

Orange Cake 157 

Orange Charlotte 137 

Orange Filling 156 

Orange Frosting 156 

Orange Ice 165 

Oranie Jelly 135 

Orange Marmalade 167 

Organs of Digestion 148 

Oven Tests 68 

Oysters 132-133 

Oysters, Creamed 133 

Oysters, Fried 31 

Oyster Omelet 33 

Oysters on the Half Shell 133 

Oysters, Scalloped 31 

Oyster Stew 133 

Pan-broiled Chops 115 

Parker House Rolls 153 

Parsnips, Boiled 15 

Pasteurized Milk 105 

Pastry 162 

Peach Canapes 25 

Peaches, Canned 99 

Peach Tapioca 37 

Pears, Canned 99 

Pears, Sweet Pickled 99 

Peas, Canned 17 

Peas and Carrots 39 

Pea Soup 27 

Pea Soup, Cream of 29 

Peanut Candy 57 

Peanut Cookies 161 

Petti John's Breakfast Food 53 

Pickling 166 

Pineapple Charlotte 137 

Pineapple Sherbet 165 

Pinoche ' 57 

Pin Wheel Biscuit 71 

Plain Cake 157 

Plain Frosting 156 

Plain Muffins 63 

Plums, Canned 99 

Plum Pudding Without Eggs 151 

Plums, Sweet Pickled 99 

Poached Eggs 101 

Popovers 33 

Potatoes 51 

Potatoes, Baked 51 

Potatoes, Boiled 51 

Potatoes, Creamed 51 

Potato Croquettes 123 

Potatoes, French Fried 123 

Potatoes, Mashed 51 

Potato Nests Ill 

Potato Puffs 51 

Potatoes, Riced 51 

Potato Salad 39 

Potato Soup, Cream of 29 

Pot Roast 113 



Poultry. How to Dress, Clean, Stuff and 

Truss 120 

Pour Batter 60 

Preservation of Eggs 102 

Preserved Fruits. Blackberries, Rasp- 
berries, Strawberries 99 

Preserving Fruits 98 

Preserving With Sugar 98 

Practice Test Lesson 43-79 

Proteids 

. 100-102-104-106-110-112-117-119-120-126 

Proteid Sparers — Gelatine 134 

Prune Pudding 37 

Prunes, Stewed 167 

Prune Whip 35 

Pudding a la Macedoine 135 

Purees 29 

Quick Biscuits 71 

Quick Cake ., 69 

Raspberry Charlotte 137 

Raspberry Jelly 135 

Raspberries, Preserved 99 

Recipes for Left-Overs of Meat 23 

Rennet Custard 105 

Rhubarb Pie 163 

Rice 54-55 

Rice, Boiled 55 

Rice Croquettes 123 

Riced Potatoes 51 

Rice Steamed in Water 55 

Rice With Apples or Pineapples 55 

Rice Water 173 

Rich Cookies 161 

Rich Corn Cake 65 

Roast Beef Sandwich, Hot 23 

Roasting 119 

Rolled Flank of Beef 117 

Rolled Oats Bread 75 

Rolls, Parker House, Sweet 153 

Russian Salad 169 

Rye Bread 155 

Sago Pudding 35 

Salads 168-169 

Salad Dressing Cooked 39 

Salmon Loaf 131 

Salmon Salad 39 

Salmon Sandwiches 77 

Salting 16 

Sandwiches 77 

Sandwiches — General Directions 76 

Sandwiches, Clubhouse 23 

Sandwiches, Cream Cheese 77 

Sandwiches, Egg 77 

Sandwiches, Fruit 77 

Sandwiches, Ham and Egg 77 

Sandwiches, Lettuce 77 

Sandwiches, Salmon 77 

Sandwiches, Sliced Meat 77 

Sanitary Housekeeping 9-10 

Sauces. General Rules for Making 125 

Sauces, Fish 129 

Sauces, Meat 125 

Sauted Fish 127 

Scalloped Dishes 31 

Scalloped Apples 31 



INDEX 



[Page 197] 



Scalloped Eggs 31 

Scalloped Oysters 31 

Scalloped Tomatoes 31 

Scrambled Eggs 101 

Sea Foam 57 

Selection of Meat HO 

Semi-Solids 1~2 

Shell Fish 132 

Short Cake I 7:^. 

Short Cake II 71) 

Shredded Cabbage 39 

Shrimps 132 

Simple Dinner 139 

Sink 22 

Sliced Meat Sandwiches 77 

Smoking 16 

Snow Pudding 135 

Soft Cooked Eggs 101 

Soft Diet 172 

Soft Dough 60 

Solids 172 

Soups 27 

Sour Cream Corn Cake 65 

Sour Cream Gingerbread 67 

Sour Milk Cheese 105 

Sour Milk Corn Cake 65 

Sour Milk Doughnuts 149 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 67 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 61 

Spaghetti 59 

Spanish Cream 137 

Spanish Fritters 19 

Spinach, Boiled 15 

Sponge Cake 159 

Starch 50 

Steak 115 

Steamed Bread 151 

Steamed Mixtures 150 

Steamed Rice 55 

Steaming 150 

Sterilization 17 

Stewed Apricots 167 

Stewed Prunes 167 

Stewing. General Directions for 113 

Stiff Dough 60 

Stoves 28 

Strawberry Charlotte 137 

Strawberry Ice Cream 109 

Strawberry Preserves 99 

Strawberry Tapioca 37 

String Beans, Boiled 15 

String Beans, Canned 17 

Stuffed Eggs 101 

Stuffed Tomatoes 19 

Stuffing 117 

Stuffing I, n (Chestnut), III, IV, V 121 

Stuffing, Fish 129 

Succotash 19 

Sugar 56 

Sugar Cookies 1 161 

Sugar Cookies II 161 

Sunshine Cake, Small 159 

Sweeping 10 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 99 

Sweet Rolls 153 

Sweet Water Melon Pickles 99 



Table Showing Composition of Cereals.. 52 

Table Showing Composition of Meat 124 

Taffy 57 

Tapioca Cream Pudding 35 

Tea 170 

Tea Cakes 71 

Tea, to Make 171 

Ten Cents Will Purchase 136 

Tests for Temperature of Oven 68 

Thick Sauce 123 

Thick White Sauce 125 

Thin White Sauce 21 

Time-Table for Baking Batters and 

Doughs 66 

Time-Table for Boiling Meat and Fish. .124 

Time-Table for Broiling 115 

Time-Table for Canning Vegetables 17 

Time-Table for Cooking Vegetables in 

Water 15 

Time-Table for Roasting 119 

Toast 21 

Toast, Cream 21 

Toast, Dry 21 

Toast, German 25 

Toast, Milk 21 

Toast, Water 173 

Tomato Cream Sauce 125 

Tomato Salad 169 

Tomato Sauce 23-111-125 

Tomatoes, Scalloped 31 

Tomato Soup 27 

Tomato Soup, Cream of 29 

Tomatoes Stuffed 19 

To Remove Cakes from Pan 68 

To Separate the Yolk from the White. .102 

Turban of Fish 131 

Turnips, Boiled • 15 

Typical Food 100 

Uniform, Description of 8 

Uses for Stale Bread 21-23-25 

Vanilla Cookies 161 

Vanilla Ice Cream I 109 

Vanilla Ice Cream II 109 

Veal 110 

Veal Birds 117 

Veal Croquettes 123 

Veal Cutlets, Breaded 123 

Vegetables. General Directions for Cook- 
ing 15 

Vegetables. Directions for Canning 17 

Vegetable Oyster Stew 133 

Vegetable Soup 27 

VermicelH 59 

Virginia Pone 65 

Waffles 61 

Waldorf Salad 169 

Washing Dishes 12 

Water. Composition, Uses 14 

Water as a Cleaning Agent 18-20 

Water as a Means of Carrying Away 

Waste Matter 22 

Water as a Sterilizing Medium 16 

Water Carriage System — Plumbing 22 

Water Lily Salad 169 

Water Toast 21 



[Page 



INDEX 



Welsh Rabbit .' 107 

Wlieat. Composition 58 

Wheatena With Fruit 53 

White Bread 155 

White Cake 157 

White Custard 103 

White Mountain Cream 156 

White Sauce 125 

Whipped Cream 31-105 

Whole Wheat Bread 1 75 



Whole Wheat Bread II 75 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes 61 

Why Eggs Spoil 102 

Yeast. Experiments 72 

Yeast and Its Action 154 

Yeast Muffins 75 

Yellow Custard 103 

Yellow Sauce 151 




yEC 53 Wm 



