TX 721 
.P4 
Copy 1 



Science ot THealtb 

V (5erman Cook Book v 



8T ALEXIS CONSTANTINE CARL PFUHL 



Science of Health 

German Cook Book 



BY 



ALEXIS CONSTANTIN CARL PFUHL 




'^STOMACH RELIGION'' 

The Chemical changes of the Blood and Stomach, 
so little studied by scientists and less understood by 
the masses, should be known by every Haus frau. 



The Key to Success is a Healthy Stomach 



Good Food Makes Good Blood, Good Blood Makes 
Good Brain, Good Brain in a Good Head Rules the 
World, 

A Good Cook Rules All 



(Copyright 1912 by A. C. C. Pfuhl) 



PR ESS OF 

DOUOLAB PRINTING CO. 

OMAHA 



'C!, A 330:^7 9 



Inbex 

Page 

All About Food 5-7 

Soups 9-12 

Sauces 13-15 

Vegetables 16 

Fricassees, Meat and Fish Pies, Eoast and Dressing 17-21 

Gruels for Children, Fishtea 22 

Salads, Egg Beer 23-25 

Puddings, Cakes, Coffee 26-21 



Ell Hbout jfoob 

and Maxims for the Kitchen 




IHIS SMALL COOK BOOK is intended for 
those who are fond of good things to eat, and 
who cannot live just on pork and beans or 
fried steak with tomato catsup and hot bread. 
It gives no old recipes that have diseased the 
race with dyspepsia, eruption on face, cirrhosis of the 
liver, and all manner of ailments. Tell me your disease 
and I tell you what you have been eating. The kitchen 
is the great workshop of the human race, because there 
is manufactured good or bad blood, and a poor stomach 
is caused by not knowing what to eat, and eating food 
not well prepared. Tomatoes, for instance, are poison; 
they produce appendicitis, cancer of the stomach, heart- 
burn; and tomato catsup gives cirrhosis of the liver, 
especially people who have bhie or gray eyes should avoid 
this pest of a vegetable. It's acid overfeeds on the alkali 
in the stomach, thereby weakens digestion, gives head- 
aches and assimilates a peculiar gas; blots, fattens the 
body and makes the blood sluggish. All bitter things 
change into sweet when in the stomach. All acids when 
entering the stomach change into alkali. All sweets 
change into acids, while salt is the great crystalizer that 
centers and cleanses everything entering the stomach, 
giving projecting force to the blood, making tissue and 
acting upon the spleen. The eating of plenty salt on food 
prevents worms, especially in children ; no salt in food 
makes a person negative and too sensitive, and gradually 
insane. Give your horse or cow no salt and the animal 
will soon break out in large blotches all over the body. 
A. person with brown or black eyes has much iron in the 
blood, more so if hair is very dark ; while in blue or gray 
eyes, lime, soda and sugar predominates, more so if hair 



is light. A brunette needs acids and sweets, while a 
blonde (blue eyes and light hair) needs bitter things and 
salt. A cook should have full lips or thick lips, because 
taste lies in the lips, while a person with thin lips has 
no taste; if the mouth is small, the lips thin and pale, 
its owner likes roasted meats, well browned and crispy, 
but should never be a cook. Such a person has no taste 
and cannot be ruled through the stomach — in fact, so- 
cially, such a person is a failure. Crackers and cheese, 
fried bacon, pork chops and baked potatoes is such a per- 
son's diet. If a man, he likes his cigar and whisky. 

Never allow tobacco to be smoked in your kitchen, 
especially cigarettes, because the poisonous odor of to- 
bacco will enter the food and, in a measure, poison the 
same. Eaw meats, milk and butter absorb poisons and 
odors. Have no waste pail with waste in kitchen over 
night; neither dog nor cat in kitchen, because the hair 
these animals shed may fly into the food. Dry salt sprin- 
kled over the meat block keeps away flies. 

People with full lips or thick lips like stews and 
soups; thin lips the contrary; but the latter like beef 
broth and game, toast and welsh rarebit. 

All foodstuffs have within themselves medical 
properties, and a good cook is above the best physician 
of any land, because a person who understands the 
chemical compounds and amalgamation of food and its 
application to the human body, has it in his or her power 
to keep the body healthy. So a person may do good work 
while on this earth without a grunt, ache or pain. For 
weak kidneys, drink fish tea and stop using tobacco. 
For weak ovaries, eat scrambled eggs with marjoram and 
onions, well salted, and if eyes and hair are black use no 
iron, but drink lemonade; but if eyes and hair are light, 
Qse no iron, but drink bitter cocoa or chocolate flavored 
with burned sugar. For sluggish liver eat plenty of 
curry sauce with your food, also spinach, scrambled eggs 
with onions. For constipation eat peas and bean soup 
and avoid too much coffee, but drink hot milk, well salted. 



For blue or gray eyes, coffee is best ; for brown eyes, tea 
is best. For a weak heart, drink chocolate, eat puddings, 
salads, soups, hot milk with little salt, and a good many 
finely chopped almonds, from which the brown skin has 
been removed, and steeped five minutes in the hot milk. 
All sweet things for the heart, all bitter things for the 
stomach, all sour things for the liver, salt for the spleen 
and skin. 

If you be guided by the above and cook according to 
the recipes given herein, you will establish a happy home 
(that is, if well mated), and grow healthy, strong and 
happy. If you take care of your stomach, your brain 
fed through your stomach will do the rest; eine gute 
Hansfrau therefore is queen of the home ; she knows how 
to cook, or teach her maid; she is therefore the real ruler. 

A. C. C. PFUHL. 



Soups 



Berlin Bean Soup for Eight Persons 

One teacnpfnl of white beans, 5 quarts cold water, 
1 teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, 4 kernels of black pep- 
per 3^ pound of lean raw ham, one raw potato, 1 pint of 
milk, 1 dessertspoonful flour. Boil the above except milk 
and flour on a slow fire for about 4 hours, then strain 
through a collander, remove the ham; then mash the 
beans into a fine pulp and return them to the broth; let 
come to a boil, mix the flour with cold water into a thin 
batter, with which thicken the soup while it boils. Last 
add the hot milk; season with salt to taste; strain and 
serve; sprinkle a little chopped mint or parsley in the 
tureen or in each soup plate. 



Potsdam Bean Soup 

The same as above, but before serving mix yolks of 
2 eggs in 1 cupful cool milk, stir into the soup, and in 
place of the parsley have small dice of toasted bread, 
very, brown, about 8 dice to each plate. 



Wilhelmshaven Pea Soup a la Admiral 

One teacupful of green peas, 6 quarts of cold water, 
1/2 pound bacon, 2 teaspoonfuls of sweet thyme, two large 
carrots, 2 large onions. Cut up carrots and onions small, 
boil all on slow fire ; keep cover on kettle. When done re- 
move the bacon, strain, season with salt to taste, and 
when serving sprinkle small dice of toasted white bread 
in each plate. 



10 Science of Health 

Pommern Potato Soup 

Eight large potatoes, 1 pound of breast of veal, 6 
kernels black pepper, 2 bay leaves, i/4 pound bacon, 2 
onions, 6 quarts cold water. Boil the veal ; when it comes 
to boiling point be careful to skim all froth from surface, 
cut the potatoes up small, place in with the veal after the 
veal has boiled one hour, add bay leaves and peppers. 
AVhen veal is done remove the meat, mash the potatoes 
fine, and strain, then cut bacon in small dice and fry, cut 
onion in small dice, fry with the bacon to yellow brown, 
which takes about two minutes; the bacon grease must 
be hot when onions are placed therein. Pour bacon dice 
and onion into the soup, boil about 10 minutes, season 
with salt to taste, and serve. 



Hamburg Potato Soup a la Creme 

Like the above, omitting the fried bacon and fried 
onions, but cutting the onion up small and boiling them 
at once with the veal. When done, strain; make a thin 
batter of 1 dessertspoonful of flour to 1 cup of cold water, 
stir into the soup ; let come to a boil ; add 1 pint hot milk 
and serve with a little chopped parsley or mint sprinkled 
on each plate. 

Bismark Veal Broth 

Two pounds breast of veal, some carrots, 2 large 
onions, some celery, 6 kernels whole black pepper, 6 
quarts cool water. Place veal on fire first, skim froth 
from top when it comes to a boil ; after well skimmed of 
the froth add carrots, onions and celery, which have been 
cut up small; also add the pepper. When veal is done, 
removei it and broil or fry a piece of veal very brown, 
which return to the soup and let it boil 15 minutes longer 
therein; this will color the soup golden brown. Season 
with salt to taste, strain and serve. 



German Cook Book 11 

Barley Soup 

Two pounds breast of lamb or mutton, 4 bay leaves, 
2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley, 1 large carrot, one onion, 
4 kernels whole pepper, 6 quarts cool water. First let 
the meat come to a boil, skim well the froth from surface, 
and after all the froth has been skimmed off, add barley, 
spice, onions and carrots, the latter cut up in very small 
dice. Allow no fat to float on any soup whatever. When 
mutton is done remove the same and serve ; sprinkle chop- 
ped up parsley on top, season with salt. 



Cream of Barley Germania 

The same as above, but add more bay leaves to it. 
"Vivien done make a batter of 1 dessertspoonful flour to 1 
cupful cool water, thicken the soup with this, then the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs mixed in a cupful cool milk added 
to the soup. Then add 1 pint of hot milk to it, grate 
the rind of one-half lemon and one-fourth nutmeg into 
the soup just before serving. The egg and milk is added 
after the soup is off the fire. Season with salt and 
serve. 

Celery Beef Broth, Teutonia 

Two pounds lean beef, 1/2 pound or more beef bone 
of the rib will do, plenty of celery, 2 large onions, 6 
quarts cool water. Roast the bone brown, then boil with 
the beef on a slow fire, cut onion and celery up small, 
skim the froth off well. When meat comes to a boil the 
brown roasted bone will give the broth a slightly bitter 
taste and colors the broth. Boil all above until meat is 
tender. Remove the meat ; beat the whites of 2 eggs with 
some clean shells into a froth, stir this into the soup, set 
on a slow fire. When it comes to a boil all froth is on 
top ; strain through a fine sieve, season with salt to taste. 
Serve with hard brown, dry toasted bread 1 inch wide by 



12 Science of Health 

4 inches long. The green tops of celery chopped up fine 
should be sprinkled over one end of the toast, and the 
toast laid near the plate on a shell or silver dish on left 
of the soup plate. 

Chicken Soup With Dumpling, Prince Henry 

One large chicken, 6 quarts of water, 2 onions, 1 
large carrot, some celery, l^ teaspoonful Indian curry 
powder; boil all except the curry until the chicken is 
tender, cutting onion and carrots up small. When 
chicken is tender take it out of the soup, strain through 
a fine sieve, make dumpling as small as a marble balls of 
the following: Break up stale bread, dry in an oven, 
crush with a rolling pin into powder, use 2 teacupfuls 
of these crumbs to 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 eggs, a 
little cold water, enough to make a stiff dough; finely 
chopped parsley, some grated nutmeg, a little salt, the 
grated rind of half a lemon, make round little balls of 
this dough, throw them into the strained soup while 
boiling. When they float on top they are done. Sprinkle 
the curry powder into the soup, season with salt, and 
serve. All of the above soups are for a family of eight. 
You should proportion the ingredients according to the 
number of people to be served. 



German Cook Book 13 



Sauces 



Brown Sauce 

Eoast in an iron kettle, or in a roasting pan, small 
bones of veal and beef, with some carrots that have been 
cut up into small pieces; also a few small whole onions. 
Have some water in the pan, and roast the bones rather 
brown in a hot oven; open the oven about every 10 
minutes and turn the bones. A small amount of meat can 
be on the bones. When carrots are dark brown and meat 
on bones very brown and crispy, place all into a soup pot 
and boil beef and veal in the same for a few hours. Add 
some bay leaves and some whole pepper with the meat. 
After having boiled some hours, strain; add to this 1 
teaspoonful of burned sugar to 2 quarts of the liquid, 
also add some burned flour to thicken the liquid a little, 
say 2 tablespoonfuls of dry flour stirred in a hot frying 
pan with 1 tablespoonful of butter; keep stirring this 
with a wooden spoon until brown, then add some of the 
soupstock, stirring continually until cooked into a gravy; 
then pour all into the soup pot. Season with salt, strain 
and use, but all fat or grease must be skimmed from top. 
When cold you can set it on ice and use this brown sauce 
for any sauce you want. Never have the brown sauce 
too thick, because all too thick sauces remove the ap- 
petite, all thin sauces promote appetite. 



Burned Sugar 

Half pound white sugar without anything else, put 
into an iron skillet or frying pan on a middling hot fire. 
Let this smelt gradually brown, but not burn black. 
When very brown, pour slowly some boiling hot water 
over this, say about 2 quarts, stirring continually with an 



34 Science of Health 

iron spoon. Let the sugar that has become hardened 
gradually dissolve. When all is dissolved, set aside and 
when cold, pour into a bottle. Use this to color soups or 
sauces with. It should be of a pleasant bitter taste. 



Olive Sauce 



Peel olives from the stone, boil 5 minutes in brown 
sauce, add a little port wine and grated lemon rind, and 
serve. 



Mushroom Sauce 

Slice some mushrooms lengthwise, boil 3 minutes in 
brown sauce, add a little good black pepper, the juice of 
half orange, but not of the peeling. Allow the juice of 
one orange for two people. 



Berlin Vegetable Sauce 

Boil spring peas and young carrots, the latter have 
been cut in small dice, and when boiled soft in but little 
water. Add some brown sauce to this; boil all together 
3 minutes, season with little salt to taste; serve and 
sprinkle green chopped parsley over the sauce. 



White Sauce 

Stir 4 tablespoonfuls of dry flour in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter in a saucepan. When well mixed pour 
2 quarts of hot soup stock into this. Let it boil 2 minutes ; 
add 1 grated nutmeg, salt, the grated peel of 1 lemon, 
yolks of 4 eggs that have been beaten in 1 cupful cool 
milk, strain and serve. This white sauce can be used as 
a body for other sauces. 



German Cook Book 15 

The Use of Sauces 

For all boiled meats, boiled fish, asparagus, spring 
vegetables, the white sauce agrees and taste best, while 
for roast meats, fried fish, a brown sauce agrees and 
tastes best, especially is brown sauce best for game. 
Olive sauce tastes best with roast game, and mushroom 
best with roast chicken, and Berlin vegetable sauce best 
with duck. 



16 Science of Health 

IDegetables 



spinach 

"Wash well, then throw the spinach in boiling water. 
Let it boil 3 to 5 minutes, strain and chop up fine. Put 
one tablespoonful good butter into a saucepan; when 
melted, stir into this 2 tablespoonfuls dry flour. When 
slightly brown mix 1 pint soupstock into this, stirring 
until it boils. Season with grated nutmeg, white pepper, 
salt. Add 1 cupful hot milk to this, then put in all the 
chopped up spinach. Stir up well and let this boil very 
slowly until stiff. Serve by decorating with a small 
piece of hard boiled egg. 



Cabbage a la Danzig 

Slice cabbage fine, place it in an enameled saucepan, 
in which 1 tablespoonful of butter has been melted. Cover 
up tight and let the steam it creates cook it. After half 
an hour on the fire stir into this 6 chopped up sour apples 
that have been peeled and the core taken out, the juice of 
1 lemon, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, I/2 teaspoonful grated 
ginger-root, 2 teaspoonfuls fine sugar, 14 cupful soup 
stock, 2 teaspoonfuls dry flour sprinkled on top, cover 
tight. Let this boil on a slow fire, stirring up at times, 
until very tender, and serve with boiled ham or roast 
goose, roast duck or rabbit. It also is an excellent dress- 
ing for game birds, in which case sweet thyme and one 
chopped onion should be added. Blue or red cabbage is 
best for this. 



German Cook Book 17 



jFricaseee of all IRinbs 



Stewed Beef with Mustard a la Moltke 

Slice very lean beef in large square dice, chop up 
some onions, simmer in 1 tablespoonful of butter on a 
good fire. Wlien onions are yellow-brown add the raw 
beef, but no water. Cover tight and shake saucepan a 
few minutes over hot fire. Remove cover; put 1 table- 
spoonful dry flour to this and stir up continually until 
brown, then add soup stock or boiling water. Stir up 
until it boils ; cover tight and let this boil very slow about 
1 hour; then add the juice of 1 lemon, ^2 tablespoonful 
dry mustard that has been mixed in a little cool water. 
Season with salt ; let it simmer 10 minutes longer. Serve 
with boiled potatoes. Never serve any stew with mashed 
potatoes, because such does not stimulate digestion. 
When strained this is an excellent sauce for breaded veal 
or lamb chops. 

Lamb or Chicken Curry 

Cut 2 onions up small, place in a saucepan with 1 
tablespoonful butter. When melted, add 1 tablespoonful 
good curry powder ; stir this up well a few minutes, then 
put in lamb or chicken that has been cut up in small 
pieces. Cover tight and let simmer over fairly good fire. 
Do not lift the cover for i/^ hour. Then lift the cover, 
sprinkle one dessertspoonful dry flour over the meat; 
stir up well. Then add boiling hot water to this. Stir 
up until sauce is all even. Set back on stove ; let simmer. 
Season with salt and grated lemon rind. The sauce must 
not be too thick. Serve with dry boiled rice. Where no 
milk is mixed into, potatoes are not eat with curry. The 
curry sauce, when strained, is excellent with boiled 
flounders, boiled lobster, boiled fish of any kind. In that 



18 Science . of Health 

case bread in place of potatoes should be served with 
the fish. 



Irish Stew for Eight 

Boil breast of lamb or mutton that has been cut in 
small pieces — say, 2 pounds to 2 quarts of water. Skim 
the froth off when it comes to a boil. Then add a few 
carrots, turnips, onions, which have been cut into small 
pieces; also about 6 kernels whole black pepper. When 
mutton is nearly done, add 5 to 8 potatoes that have been 
cut in small pieces. When all cooked tender, take I/2 
tablespoonful flour to 1 cupful cold water, make a thin 
batter, with which thicken the broth. Season with salt, 
skim all fat or grease from top. Never serve any stew 
or soup with grease floating on top, because such gives 
dyspepsia and a sluggish liver. When serving sprinkle, 
chopped parsley over it. Serve with boiled potatoes. 



Stewed Fresh Codfish (Newfoundland) 

Cut fresh codfish steaks in 2 inch square pieces, place 
on fire in pot with cool water, skim when it comes to a 
boil (use 2 quarts of water), then add some lean bacon 
that has been cut in small dice, say i/4 pound of bacou 
to 2 pounds of fish; also 6 raw potatoes that have been 
cut in small pieces, 2 large onions that have been cut 
up small, a few red peppers, cover tight. Let boil slow. 
Never stir it or you will break the fish up. When pota- 
toes and fish is done, season with salt; also 1/0 table- 
spoonful flour to 1 quart cool water. Make a batter out 
of this and thicken with broth. In serving dip the fish 
out with a large skimmer, keeping the fish and potatoes 
from crumbling to pieces. Dip the sauce out with a 
spoon; sprinkle finely chopped parsley over it all. 



German Cook Book 19 

Fresh Codfish Pie, Harbour de Grace 

Place in an earthen baking dish small pieces of 
bacon; cover this with a layer of small pieces fresh cod- 
fish, then a layer of sliced onions, then a layer of sliced 
raw potatoes, sprinkle salt over this. Put a small teacup 
upset in the center of the dish, around which all these 
layers are built, then pour one cupful cold water into this 
dish; cover the whole dish with a fine pie crust of putf 
paste. Set on top of stove for 1/2 hour on a slow fire, 
so the ingredients cook and the upset cup will draw or 
suck the fluid under itself by the steam and air it creates. 
Then in i/^ hour place this dish in a hot oven to bake 
the crust on top. Use a heavy cloth or you bum the 
hands. When crust is baked all is cooked. In serving 
set this dish on a large platter, surround the dish with 
a white starched napkin, then cut a circle around the cup, 
lifting it out with a fish fork and spoon. The sauce that 
was drawn under the cup will bubble out when cup is 
lifted. 

Veal Dressing and Roast 

One small loaf of stale white bread with the brown 
crust cut off, cut in slices, soak in cool water, squeeze 
the water out, mix with 2 raw eggs some grated nutmeg, 
grated lemon peel, chopped parsley, a little white or red 
pepper, some salt, a little sweet thyme, finely pulverized, 
also chop a small onion up fine, fry slightly yellow in lA 
tablespoonful butter; mix all the above well in a bowl 
with the hot onion, then fill this in the breast of veal, or 
roll up in large thin sliced veal cutlet ; sew up or tie up. 
Lay veal in roasting pan, sprinkle dry flour and salt over 
the meat. Have about 1 inch water in the roasting pan, 
in which have a few raw onions, raw carrots, cut up. 
Roast in a hot oven, basting every 20 minutes (that is, 
take a spoon and pour the gravy or fluid over the meat). 
Thus the flavor of the fluid will flavor the meat, and the 



20 Science of Health 

dry flour will brown and thicken the fluid, making a de- 
licious gravy of golden brown. Do not have the gravy 
too thick, because thick gravy removes the appetite. 
When done, strain the gravy ; serve in a separate bowl ; 
slice the veal and in the center of each slice is the de- 
licious pale yellow looking dressing with the green 
parsley mixed. Good to look at ; splendid taste. This is a 
favorite dish of the E^lnperor of Austria. Boiled pota- 
toes and not mashed should be served with this. The out- 
side of the veal must be brown and crispy. This is ex- 
cellent with cabbage a la Danzig. Never roast pork or 
mutton with veal. The above dressing is good with game 
birds, in which case fine pulverized garden sage and 
sweet marjoram should be added, while for roast goose 
some chopped sour apples should be mixed with the 
dressing, and for duck, chopped up olives of which of 
course the stones are removed. For quail or partridge 
the same as veal dressing, add chopped sweet almonds, 
of which the brown shell has been removed by letting 
the almonds lay a few minutes in hot water. 

Puff Paste 

Make a stiff dough from 1 pound of flour and a little 
ice water. After the dough is made, work one pound of 
good butter into this dough. Use no baking powder. 
Wlien all the butter has been worked into the dough, 
roll it out flat. Then lay on a platter and lay it on ice. 
After Yo hour work again with rolling pin only by roll- 
ing it out, cutting it into strips, laying one strip over 
the other. Roll up again, flat, and lay on ice; thus each 
% hour work the dough out, until finally roll out to use 
for the pie. This puff paste must be baked in a very hot 
oven where the dough is i/4 inch thick. It will rise as 
high as lyo inch. The more it has been worked on ice, 
the higher it rises. The yolk of an egg beaten up in 1 
cup cold milk may be used to wash the top of the pie 



German Cook Book 21 

with, using a flat brush for that purpose. This will give 
a beautiful golden color to the crust. 



Quail or Pigeon Apple Pie 

In a small deep porcelain or granite dish, lay one 
thin slice of bacon. On top of this one quail, of which 
the bones are removed, sprinkle finely chopped onions 
all about the bottom, then surround the quail or pigeon 
with chopped up sour apples ; sprinkle salt over this ; fill 
dish 34 full water, cover dish with layer of puff pie crust ; 
bake first on bottom of oven, so as to cook the meat, then 
on upper shelf of oven to brown the pastry. This is 
served with mashed potatoes and olive sauce. 



22 Science of Health 

(3ruel8 



Farina, Oatmeal, Flour Gruel 

Stir in 2 quarts of boiling water 2 tablespoonsful 
oat meal or farina or flour, that has been mixed in one 
cup of cool water. Let this boil about 10 minutes ; season 
with salt, a little sugar, a little grated nutmeg; add 1 cup 
of hot milk. This is good for babies ; also for children in 
place of coffee; for adults add grated lemon rind and a 
little mint. 

Fish Tea 

Boil the heads and bones of fresh fish, especially 
fresh cod or salmon; add to this some carrots, onions, 
celery, all cut up in small pieces, some ginger root, bay 
leaves, juniper berries and sweet marjoram. This should 
boil about 2 hours ; season with salt to taste. Strain ; 
then clarify the broth with white of eggs that have been 
beaten with some egg shells into froth, and come to a 
boil. Wlien all settling comes to the top, then strain 
through a fine sieve or cloth and serve with chopped 
parsley. This is excellent for all trouble of the kidneys 
or bladder. When cold this is a jelly. 



German Cook Book 23 

Salabs 



Potato Salad 

Boil potatoes with skins on; when done, peel while 
hot, and slice them in the following liquid: to 20 large 
potatoes one teacupful good vinegar, juice and grated 
rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful onion and parsley finely 
chopped, a little white pepper, some salt, 2 tablespoons- 
ful good olive oil. Have all this in a porcelain dish. Let 
stand for about 15 minutes before serving. (Never make 
potato salad from cold boiled potatoes). 



Herring Salad, a la Pommern 

Cut salt herrings in small dice after all bones have 
been removed. Some onions finely chopped ; also capers, 
hard boiled eggs, parsley finely chopped, some salt pick- 
led cucumbers, and sour apples cut in small dice. Put in 
a porcelain dish, add olive oil, vinegar, white pepper, 
juice of lemon and very little fine powdered sugar— say 
1 teaspoonful sugar to 1 cupful vinegar. Let this stand 
in a cool place I/2 hour before serving. This salad should 
be served with hot boiled potatoes with their skins on, 
or with hot fresh rolls and butter, or hot butter toast. 
If lettuce is used, then the lettuce should be cut into long 
strips like grass and laid on the border of the plate. 
The drink to this dish should be Rhine wine or chocolate. 



Cucumber Salad 

Peel and slice cucumbers in thin slices, sprinkle salt 
over them. Let them stand V2 hour or longer in a glass 
dish, then place them in a clean napkin, fold up and 
squeeze the juice out, put them back in glas or porcelain 



24 Science of Health 

disla, pour over them vinegar, lemon juice, olive oil (to 
1 cupful vinegar, 1 tablespoonful olive oil), white pepper, 
salt, chopped parsley, a pinch of fine pulverized sugar 
to neutralize the strong vinegar taste. Let this stand 
on ice or a cool place V2 hour and serve. 



Oyster Salad 

"Wash oysters in cold water, then boil them 2 minutes 
in fish tea, but the fish tea must boil when you put the 
oysters in; 2 cupsful oysters to 1 cupful fish tea; strain, 
and in the broth put the juice of 1 lemon, also 2 oranges 
that have been cut in small dice, celery that has been cut 
in small dice, and the oysters cut in small dice; mix all 
and put in small individual form {egg cup will do), or 
in large form, in a cold place. When turned into jelly, 
serve over lettuce that has been cut in long strips, and 
decorated with small cuts of hard boiled eggs. (If you 
have no fish tea then boil oysters. Set them on fire in 
cold water, season with salt and pepper, skim froth off 
when comes to boil. Add gelatine to the broth after 
oysters have been taken out and have above ingredients). 
Oyster salad is best served before a roast and in place 
of fish; or for lunch with bread and butter, a glass of 
beer, cup of coffee or chocolate. 



Egg Beer 

Beat 4 eggs in 1 quart of fresh milk, add some grated 
nutmeg, and grated lemon rind, put 1 quart of good 
beer in a saucepan on fire and when it comes to a boiling 
point, pour this hot beer in the pitcher of milk and eggs, 
stirring swiftly with an egg beater, while you pour the 
hot beer in with the milk. Serve while warm. This is 
excellent for constipation. Add a little salt to the milk ; 
dry toast is good with this drink; if it curds some then 



German Cook Book 25 

strain. Another way, beat 4 eggs up, add 1 pint cold 
beer to the beaten eggs and beat some more ; then pour 
this in 1 quart of boiling hot beer, stirring it well and 
take off the fire or it boils over. Add one quart of cool 
milk to this, some salt, some grated nutmeg. Drink while 
luke warm. 



26 Science of Health 

Ipubbinos 



Farina Pudding I 

One pound farina, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound butter, 
12 eggs, 1 quart milk, salt, nutmeg ; melt butter in a sauce- 
pan. Add the farina, stir well with a wooden spoon. 
When well mixed, stir in the milk that is hot to a boiling 
point. Let this come to a bubble ; stir in the sugar, season 
with salt, 1 grated nutmeg, rind of 1 lemon, the yolk of 
12 eggs; stir this all up well while "off" the fire, then 
beat the whites of 12 eggs into a froth, stir in slowly 
these whites of eggs. Place in a mould and boil in steam 
or bake in slow oven. The sauce, boil some whole cin- 
namon, whole cloves, whole mace, 1 dessertspoonful of 
each in 2 quarts of water ; add slices of 1 lemon, 2 table- 
spoonsful sugar, boil slowly 1 hour, and add 2 table- 
spoonsful good raspberry or cherry or grape jelly to 
this strain. This can be served hot or cold. 



Bismark Pudding, Chocolate Sauce 

Use flour in place of farina, flavor with vanilla in 
place of grated lemon peel and nutmeg. The chocolate 
sauce, use chocolate in place of fruit jelly; if sauce too 
thin, then thicken little with corn starch. 



German Pancake 

One tablesponful flour, well mixed into a thin batter 
with % cup of cool milk, i/o teasponf ul salt ; add to this 
2 eggs, beat up altogether. Have 1 teaspoonful lard or 
olive oil in a frying pan. When hot, see that the bottom 
of the frying pan is all greased ; pour the batter into this ; 
have the fire fairly hot. Wlien done on one side, turn. 



German Cook Book 27 

add a little oil or lard, shake the pan somewhat so the 
cake will not burn; serve flat on a plate; sprinkle sugar 
over it. Add no baking powder). 



French Pancake 

The same as German, but when done, put fruit jelly 
all over it. Roll up, sprinkle sugar on top, so it looks 
like omelet, then pass a hot fire poker over the top, mak- 
ing different dark lines on top and serve. Both of these 
are good with coffee or chocolate. 



Potato Pancake 

The same os German pancake; but use 1 raw or 
boiled potato grated with the batter, and only 1/2 table- 
spoonful flour. Use 2 eggs for each cake, or for 8 cakes 
use 12 eggs, 8 potatoes, 4 tablespoonsful flour, 4 cups 
milk. 

Codfish Cakes 

Boil 1 pound of good salt codfish, set on fire in cool 
water, so the salt gradually soaks out. Take out of the 
water, remove all bones, chop up fine ; add to this 6 good 
sized well mashed hot potatoes, 2 tablespoonsful flour, 
4 eggs, salt to season, put on fire in a saucepan ; stir well 
into stiff pulp with wooden spoon ; take off the fire, make 
little round flat cakes, roll over in flour; fry brown in 
hot lard or hot butter, over a quick fire ; curry or lobster 
sauce taste well with codfish cakes, but the sauce must 
be served separate. A lobster sauce is made of chopped 
up lobster, mixed in hot white sauce, and anchovy sauce 
added. Steep on fire about 10 minutes. Butter toast 
should be ate with this, and Rhine wine or chocolate as 
a drink. 



28 Science of Health • 

Chocolate Pudding, Vanilla Sauce 

The same as farina pudding, add % pound chocolate 
which has been grated and mixed with the hot milk. 
Vanilla sauce, thicken, boil milk with corn starch; add 
yolk of 2 eggs to 1 quart milk, vanilla flavor, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, grated nutmeg, grated lemon peel. 



All About Coffee 

A good cup of coffee must never be made in a tin 
pot, nor ever drank with skimmed milk, as such brings 
cirrhosis of the liver and untold nervous diseases. The 
criminal tendency in this age are so great that people will 
stoop to anything to make a dishonest dollar. In large 
coffee roasting houses a poison mixture of strychnine 
or tobacco is often used on cheap coffees. Here lays the 
foundation of your apoplexy. Mix 2 cupsful ground 
coffee with the white of 1 egg and some egg shells and a 
little cool water in a pulp, in a porcelain lined pot or 
saucepan. Pour over this 8 pints of boiling water. Let 
this come to a slow boil with cover on. When it almost 
boils stir up slowly, and when boiling pour a little cold 
water into this, so it settles. Then put cover over tight 
and let steep 10 to 20 minutes. Strain through fine sieve, 
keep in porcelain lined pot, which place in a pan of boil- 
ing water and keep boiling hot with cover on. Serve with 
good cream. 

Sandtorte 

Three-fourths pound butter, % pound sugar; mix 
well to a white foam. Add to this the yolk of 10 eggs, 
and white and yolk of 4 eggs. Beat this all together 
about 15 minutes. Add slowly % pound corn starch to 
this, using 1 spoonful at a time and at least some grated 
lemon peel for flavor. Bake about 1 hour. Stick a straw 
in. When no dough clings to the straw, the cake is done. 



German Cook Book 29 

Turkish Pudding 

Have 5 layers of sponge cake, and green apple sauce 
mixed with chopped almonds between each layer. The 
green apple sauce must be mixed with seedless raisins. 
Eat with whipped cream. 



Apple Souffle Pudding 

One pound pulverized toasted bread crumbs, 12 good 
apples finely chopped, i/4 pound butter, I/2 pound sugar, 
1 grated nutmeg, juice of 2 lemons, 2 pints cool milk, 
12 eggs well beaten. Mix and bake. Serve with vanilla 
sauce or whipped cream. 



Sultana Pudding Sauce 

Six raw eggs well beaten; add 1 pint cold milk, 1 
glass rum and i/o pound sugar. Then mix with this: 1 
pound raisins, i/4 pound citron, 1 grated nutmeg, i/4 
pound sweet almonds, all chopped very fine. This is good 
over stale cake or cold boiled rice or any cake pudding. 



Ice Punch a la Bluecher 

For 10 to 15 guests, melt IV2 pounds sugar in 3 
pints water ; add juice and grated rind of 2 oranges and 
4 lemons, put all in a freezer; add 1 bottle Ehine wine 
while in the freezer; then 1 bottle champagne. Wliile 
the wine is added, you must continually stir it up. One- 
half glass Maraschino wine, the white of 5 eggs beaten 
to a froth and mixed with 1/2 pound sugar; freeze this 
some, and at last add li/^ glass good rum to this. Freeze 
well and serve. 



30 Science of Health 

English Plum Pudding 

One-half pound pulverized bread crumbs, 1/2 pound 
flour, 1 pound sugar, 1/2 pound raisins, i/^ pound cur- 
rants, 1/2 pound almonds and citron mixed, i/o pound fine 
beef tallow, all chopped up fine, 1/2 butter, 10 eggs, 1 glass 
rum, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful pulverized cloves. 
Mix like Sandtorte and boil in a mould in a steamer. 
Eat with brandy sauce, which is made as follows : Boil 
in 1 pint water the peel of 2 lemons, some whole mace, 
some whole cinnamon, whole cloves, for V2 hour. Add 
the juice of 2 lemons, 14 pound sugar, thicken slightly 
with corn starch, strain. Add some sherry wine and 
some brandy, when the sauce is off the fire. 



Metropolitan Blanc Mange 

Heat 2 quarts of milk, soak in this 2 small packages 
of gelatine, stir up well ; divide in 4 parts, stir in one part 
the beaten yolk of 2 eggs, in another 1 tablespoonful 
grape or currant jelly; in another part, 1 tablespoonful 
grated chocolate ; in the white or other part, mix rose- 
water or nutmeg flavor. Let one cool in the mould before 
the next layer is added or it runs together. It must be 4 
layers, or else cool each on a separate dish, and place 
one over the other when serving. This is ate with Sul- 
tana sauce or whipped cream. 



Scrambled Eggs with Onions 

Chop onion fine, fry in a little butter to a golden 
brown, then beat eggs up in a bowl ; add cold milk to the 
beaten eggs, average 1 tablespoonful milk to 2 eggs. Add 
a little salt and white or red pepper. When eggs and 
milk are well beaten, add a little dry curry powder to 
this; stir these beaten eggs in the pan with the fried 



German Cook Book 31 

onions. Keep stirring until cooked soft. Serve with 
toast. This cures constipation, and the eggs thus scram- 
bled absorb the odor of onions and keep the breath pure. 



Fried Eggs with Black Butter 

Melt butter in a frying pan, mix in a cup some good 
vinegar and AVorcestershire sauce, a little lemon juice. 
Pour this in the pan with melted butter. The heat of 
the pan will heat the fluid. Pour this over fried eggs; 
be sure and have the fried eggs on a very hot dish. Serve 
with bread or toast. This is a fine appetizer on empty 
stomach. 



DEC 16 1912 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 517 006 f 




