
Book 

Gopight]^^. 



i^J 



CQPmiOm DEPOSIT 



i 




s ^ 



Lessons in Cooking 

THROUGH 

Preparation of Meals 



BY 

EVA EOBERTA ROBINSON, B.S. 

thachbe of cookery, university of chicago, lectubbb 

illinois domestic science association, 

women's clubs, etc. 

AND 

HELEN GUNN HAMMEL 

©BADUATB OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO, DIETITIAN, INSTEUCTO* 
AMERICAN SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



A CORRESPONDENCE COURSE 

PREPARED TO TEACH THE ART OF COOKING IN THE HOME, 
THROUGH A SERIES OF GRADED MENUS, WITH DIREC- 
TIONS FOR PREPARING THE MEALS AS WELL 
AS THE SEPARATE KECIPES 




CHICAGO 

AMERICAN SCHOOL OP HOME ECONOMICS 

1912 



r> 






Copyright 1911, 1912 

BY 

Home Economics Association 



SCIA328579 



INTRODUCTION 



THE problem of home cooking is to prepare appetizing' 
and wliolesome meals, with due regard to expenditure 
of time and money. 

The typical cooking, course teaches the art by means of 
separate dishes, leaving the student at a loss when it comes 
to combining them or to preparing whole meals of several 
dishes at the same time. 

The beginner, with only a cook book for a guide, often 
attempts the most difficult and complicated dishes first, with 
failure and discouragement, loss of time and materials as 
the result. The cook book gives little help in serving whole- 
some food combination and a balanced diet. It does not 
answer the ever-present question, "What shall be provided 
for today, for tomorrow, for the day after?" 

In this series of lessons is presented a systematic cor- 
respondence course in the cooking of meals, with detailed 
directions, not only for cooking the separate dishes, but also 
for preparing and serving each meal as a whole. 

The course is divided into twelve parts, each containing 
the recipes for a week's menu, typical of one month in the 
year. With the exception of seasonable fruits and vege- 
tables, the menus may be applied to any month. In the 
first lessons the simplest recipes are gives, gradually increas- 
ing in difficulty to advanced work in the lessons of the later 
months. The recipes, in most cases, give quantities suit- 
able for serving a family of four. The average cost of the 
food served and its food value is given, followed by sug- 
gestions for reducing the cost, if desired. 



ii INTRODUCTION 

The menus are planned to give pleasing, variety, whole- 
some food combination, and well-balanced meals which may 
be prepared with economy of time, effort and money. Menus 
for special occasions are included, as for Thanksgiving and 
Christmas dinners, formal and informal luncheons and din- 
ners, chafing-dish suppers, birthday and children's parties, 
etc. 

Each part contains one or more special articles relating 
to the "Preparation of Meals," such as waiting on table, 
carving, dishwashing, candy making, marketing, fuels, plan- 
ning menus, canning, preserving, etc. Helpful hints and 
suggestions are given throughout the lessons and at the end 
of many of the parts. A summary of all the menus, glos- 
sary, bibliography and full and complete index are provided 
at the end. 

In the following course, the student is expected to cook 
and serve all of the meals given in Part I during the first 
month, the meals in Part II during the second month, and 
so on through the twelve parts. The written work consists 
in sending a detailed report of each month's work, telling of 
successes and failures, giving time spent in cooking, the cost 
of the meals served, and asking questions. Report blanks 
are furnished. A certificate, i6 by 21 inches, on parch- 
ment bond, is awarded if the twelve reports are made. 

In the preparation of the course, the literature of cooking, 
has been examined thoroughly and the assistance of a num- 
ber of prominent teachers of cookery has been obtained. 
The course is offered in the expectation that it will prove 
particularly helpful to beginners and be welcomed as well 
by those who have had experience but who desire to perfect 
themselves further in modern methods of cooking. 

American School of Home Economics. 



TABLES AND DEFINITIONS 

The following tables and definitions are taken from the 
Bulletin of the American School of Home Economics, en- 
titled "Free Hand Cooking." In it an attempt has been 
made to simplify the art of cookery by concentrating and 
by classifying according to process. Fundamental recipes 
are given which are capable of infinite variation. The 
complete Bulletin may be obtained from the School for ten 
cents. 

The pages are included here as a general guide and for 
quick reference. Details and specific directions will be 
found in the Lessons. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

3 teaspoons=l tablespoon 2 pints^l quart 

16 tablespoons=l cup 4 quarts=l gallon 

2 cups=l pint 1 cup=8 ounces (volume) 

A gallon of water weighs 8% pounds — a cup of water, S^^ ounces 
(avoirdupois). A gallon contains 231 cubic inches. 

All materials are measured level, i. e., by filling cup or spoon more 
than full and leveling with a case knife. This applies to liquids which 
* ' round up " in spoons. Flour, meal, and fine sugar are measured 
after sifting and piled into the measure lightly. Standard measuring 
cups holding % pint should always be used. Tea and coffee cups vary 
so greatly that correct proportions" can not be obtained by using them. 

Tea and tablespoons vary considerably. Standard tea and table- 
spoons should be used. 

APPROXIMATE MEASURE OF ONE POUND 

2 cups milk 2 5/6 cups granulated cornmeal 

2 cups butter 2 2/3 cups oatmeal 

2 cups chopped meat 6 cups rolled oats 

2 cups granulated sugar 4 1/3 cups rye meal 

2 2/3 cups brown sugar 1% cups rice 

2 2/3 cups powdered sugar 2 1/3 cups dry beans 

3% cups confectioners' sugar 4 1/3 cups coffee 

4 cups patent flour 8 large eggs 

4 cups entire wheat flour 9 medium eggs 

4% cups Graham flour 10 small eggs 

APPROXIMATE MEASURE OF ONE OUNCE 

Read "tablespoons" in place of cups in the above and the weight 
is about 1 ounce. 



iv LESSONS IN COOKING 

No table of weights to measure can be more than ap- 
proximate, as different samples vary in weight for bulk. 
In truly scientific cookery quantities should be measured 
by weight. The table is useful for comparison, i. e., pow- 
dered sugar is more bulky than granulated and less so than 
confectioners', hence the greater sweetening power of gran- 
ulated; ordinary white flour (sifted) is less bulky than 
graham flour, and so on. 

Experiments have shown that there may be a difference 
of 25 per cent in the weight of a "cup of flour" measured 
by different persons in different ways. One method is to 
sift the flour onto a square of glazed paper (or oil cloth) 
and pour it into the cup placed on another piece of paper — 
tap the side of the cup once with a knife and level. 

METHODS OF APPLYING HEAT 

Broiling — Cooking before or over glowing coals or under gas. Ea- 
cliant heat. High temperature at first to sear outside, thus devel- 
oping flavor and retaining juices; then lower temperature for the 
heat to penetrate and to avoid burning. 

Pan Broiling — Cooking on very hot griddle with only sufficient fat 
to prevent sticking. 

Boasting — Same as broiling, superseded by baking in oven. 

Baking — Cooking in oven by heated air and radiation. 
Slow oven, 270°— 350° F. 
Moderate oven, 350°— 400° F. 
Quick oven, 400°— 480° F. 

(These temperatures were taken by a thermometer through the 
top of a gas stove oven). 

Boiling — Cooking in boiling water, 212° F. 

Stevting — Cooking in water at temperature 160° to 180° F. 

Steaming — Cooking in contact with steam, 212° F. 

Dry Steaming, as in a double boiler, 192° F. 

Frying — Cooking by immersion in deep fat, approximately 360° F. 
for uncooked foods, 380° F. for cooked foods. The fat used: all 
lard, 2/3 lard and 1/3 beef suet, "cod fat" from the flank of 
beef, oil, "snowdrift," "cottolene" and mixtures. Tempera- 
tures vary to produce similar effects with different fats. 

Saute-ing — Cooking in small quantity of fat — often called frying. 

Braising — Combination of stewing and baking. Meat is often first 
seared to develop flavor and prevent escape of juices. 

Fricasseeing — Combination of sauteing and stewing. 



TABLES AND DEFINITIONS V. 

COMPOSITION OF EAW FOODS 

Parts in 100 (approximate). 
Wheat Flour — 12 water, 12 gluten, 75 starch, 1 fat. 
Cornmeal — 12 water, 9 protein, 75 starch, 2 fat. 
Beans and Peas, dry — 13 water, 24 legumen, 60 starch, 2 fat. 
Potato, white — 78 water, 2 protein, 18 starch, trace of fat. 
Parsnips, Carrots, Turnips — 85 water, 1 proteid substance, 9 — 12 

starch and sugar, % fat. 
Banana — 75 water, 1 protein, 22 sugar and starch, i^ fat. 
Loin of Beef (avg.) — 60 water, 18 protein, 20 fat. 
Eggs — 74 water, 13 albumen, 10 fat. 
Egg, white — 86 water, 12 albumen, no fat. 
Egg, yolk — 50 water, 16 albumen, 33 fat. 
Milk — 87 water, 3 casein, 5 sugar, 4 fat. 
Cheese — 33 water, 26 casein, 33 fat. 
Nuts — 3 water, 20 protein, 15 starch, 55 fat. 
Butter — 12 water, 1 protein, 85 fat. 
Lard, Olive Oil— 100 fat. 

All the above foods except refined fats, sugar and starch, contain 
from % per cent to 1 per cent of mineral matter (salts), apparent 
when the foods are burned as ash. Butter and cheese have 2 per cent 
or 3 per cent of common salt added. 

Protein foods are eggs, meats, fish, cheese. 

Starchy foods are the grains — wheat, rice, rye, oats, corn, 
etc., beans, peas, potatoes, chestnut. 

Fats are prominent in fat meats, nuts, cream, butter, lard, 
vegetable oils. 

Cellulose or woody fiber is found in vegetables, un- 
screened flours and meals, and in fruits, especially when 
unripe. 

EFFECT OF HEAT ON FOOD MATERIALS 

Starch absorbs water, swells and becomes partially soluble 
in water. This begins at about 150 degrees F. Dry 
starch begins to change to dextrine at about 320 de- 
grees F. 

Sugar is not changed at low temperatures unless acid is 
present. It melts at about 365 degrees and begins to 
caramelize at about 420 degrees F. Sugar, boiled with 
acid, changes slowly to glucose or non-crystallizing 
sugar. 

Cellulose itself is not affected by cooking, but the con- 
necting substances are softened and it may be sepa- 
rated. 



vi LESSONS IN COOKING 

Protein foods are hardened somewhat by heat. Albumen 
coagulates completely at i6o degrees F. and will no 
longer dissolve in water. Other proteins, as gluten 
of flour, casein of milk, legiimen of peas and beans, 
myosin of meat, are hardened somewhat. 

Gelatin is formed from gristle and connecting tissue of 
meat, and from bones, by long continued heating in 
the presence of water. 

Fat is not changed except at a high temperature, when it is 
broken apart — "split" — into fatty acid and glycerine. 
Some of the glycerine is changed into "acrolein" at 
very high temperatures, 500° and over, which is very 
irritating to the mucous membrane, as is recognized by 
the smarting sensation given to the eyes and nose when 
fats are overheated. Butter begins to "split" at about 
256° F., lard at 360° F., beef suet at 440° F., cottolene 
and snow drift at 450° F., especially prepared cotton- 
seed oil and olive oil at 600° F. 
Baking Powder^ a mixture of cooking soda and an acid 
substance, as cream of tartar, or phosphates, or alum, 
undergoes chemical change, whereby carbon dioxide 
is set free and salts — as Rochelle salts, or phosphate, 
or alumina compounds — are formed. The heat of the 
oven expands the air or gas in the food, evaporates 
part of the water and drives out volatile substances 
like alcohol. 
'All these changes are, for the most part, physical rather 
than chemical in their nature. For example, in a cake after 
baking, the sugar is still sugar, the starcn is still starch, the 
fat is still fat, and the albumen is still albumen. All the 
materials have been blended, flavors having been developed 
through minor but complex chemical changes and a small 
proportion of the starch and sugar in the crust have been 
changed to dextrin and caramel. 

TEMPERATURE AND TIME OF COOKING 

All food materials are poor conductors of heat — it takes 
time for the heat to penetrate. 
The correct time and temperature depends on (i) what 



TABLES AND DEFINITIONS vii 

is to be accomplished, (2) size and thicknesses, i. e., the 
extent of surface exposed to the heat, compared to the bulk. 

Foods with a large proportion of eggs require low tem- 
perature to prevent toughening. 

Starch requires nearly the temperature of boiling water 
for cooking. 

No food containing much water can be raised to a tem- 
perature above the boiling point— '-2 12 degrees F. Water 
gives off vapor at all temperatures, but at 212 degrees F. 
steam forms rapidly and in so doing absorbs a large quan- 
tity of heat. No brown crust can be formed until the wa- 
ter from the surface is nearly all evaporated. A full oven 
in which much water vapor is being given off requires the 
application of more heat than when only one or two dishes 
are in it. 

In baking doughs, the larger the mass the lower must be 
the temperature in order that the heat m.ay have time to 
penetrate to the interior and expand the gas and harden 
the albumen and gluten. If the temperature is too high 
at first, a crust forms, preventing the proper expansion of 
the loaf and hindering the penetration of the heat. 

Thin loaves, pieces of meat, etc., need much less time for 
cooking, because the heat penetrates quickly. Higher tem- 
peratures may be used, as the food is cooked before the 
surface begins to be burned. 

Mixtures containing much sugar or molasses burn easily. 

Vegetables containing much fiber need long boiling to 
soften them and separate the cellulose. Young, green vege- 
tables contain less fiber and require less time in cooking. 

Bearing all the above in mind, the following tables may 
serve as a general guide for beginners. When it is possible 
to do so, TEST. 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



TIME TABLE 



Boiling 

Meats (4 to 5 lbs.) — 2 to 5 hours. 
(Tough meats should be kept 

below boiling, 180 degrees P.) 

Fish (2 to 5 lbs.) — 30 to 45 min- 
utes. 

Ham (12 to 14 lbs.) — 4 to 5 hours. 

Corned Meat (6 to 8 lbs.)— 4 to 6 
hours. 

Potatoes, white — 20 to 30 minutes. 

Potatoes, sweet — 15 to 25 minutes. 

Peas, green — 20 to 60 minutes. 

Beans, string — 1/2 to 1 hour. 

Beets, young — 45 minutes. 

Beets, old — 3 or 4 hours. 

Onions— 40 to 60 minutes. 

Cauliflower — 20 to 25 minutes. 

Cabbage, cut up — 20 to 25 minutes. 

Turnips, parsnips — 30 to 45 min- 
utes. 

Carrots — 1 hour ; less if young. 

Green corn — 8 to 15 minutes. 

Spinach — 15 to 20 minutes. 

Squash — 20 to 30 minutes. 

Asparagus — 20 to 30 minutes. 

Diced Vegetables — 10 to 20 min- 
utes. 



Baking 

Beef rib (medium, 4 lbs.) — 1 hour, 
15 min. 

Beef rib (medium, 8 lbs.) — 2 hours, 
15 min. 

Leg of Lamb — 1 hour, 30 minutes. 

Pork (rib) — 3 to 4 hours. 

Veal (leg) — 3 to 4 hours. 

Chicken (3 to 4 lbs.)— 1 to 1% 
hours. 

Turkey (8 to 10 lbs.) — 2 to 3 
hours. 

Fish (3 to 4 lbs.) — 45 to 60 min- 
utes. 

Braised beef — 4 to 5 hours. 

Bread, white — 45 to 60 min., de- 
pending on shape of loaf. 

Bread, Graham — 35 to 45 minutes. 

Quick Doughs — 8 to 15 minutes. 

Cookies — 8 to 10 minutes. 

Cake, thin — 15 to 30 minutes. 

Cake, loaf — 40 to 60 minutes. 

Pudding, Indian, etc. — 3 hours o* 
more. 

Bread Pudding — 20 to 45 minute.^, 
depending on shape and number 
of eggs. 

Pies — 30 to 45 minutes. 

Scalloped Dishes — 15 to 20 min. 

Baked Beans — 12 hours or longer. 



OVEN TEMPERATURES 

Enter at Keep at 

Roast Meats 480° F. 350° F. 

Fish 425° F. 350° F. 

Bread 440° F. 400° F. 

Popovers 480° F. 450° F. 

Cookies, Puff Paste 480° F. 450° F. 

Quick Doughs 480° F. 480° F. 

Ginger Bread and Molasses Mixture. . . 380° F. 380° F. 

Plain Cake 380° F. 380° F. 

Sponge Cake 350° F. 340° F. 

Baked Custard 350° F. Higher in water 

These temperatures are for gas ovens, with thermometer through the 
top. An oven door "thermostat" should register from 50° to 70° 
less. Few of these are accurate in their readings, but after being 
tested a few times they are useful in obtaining desired temperatures 
thereafter. 



PBOCESSES IN COOKING ix 

In addition to the methods of processes of applying heat, 
there are a few fundamental processes in cooking, i, e., 
thickening, leavening, shortening and flavoring. 

THICKENING AGENTS 

The common thickening agents are flour, corn starch, 
rice flour, potato flour, arrow root, eggs ; also gelatin, sea 
moss, junket for milk, and pectin of unripe fruits stiffen 
liquids on cooling. 

Proportions 

One level tablespoon of flour will thicken one cup of 
liquid for soups. 

Two level tablespoons of flour will thicken one cup of 
drippings or other liquid for gravies and sauces. 
[ Three level tablespoons of broiuned flour will thicken one 
cup of liquid for gravy. 

The thickening power of corn starch is about twice that 
of flour. 

Four level tablespoons of corn starch will stiffen about 
one pint of liquid, as in corn starch pudding. 

Two good sized eggs to one pint of milk make a custard — 
one egg to a cup for soft custard or baked cup custard; 
three eggs to a pint of milk for a large mold custard. 

One level tablespoon of granulated gelatin will stiffen 
about one pint of liquid, if cooled on ice. 

LEAVENING AGENTS 

Doughs are made light or porous in the following ^yays : 

(a) By the production (and expansion by heat) of car- 

bon dioxide gas from the combination of baking 
soda with some acid substance. 

(b) From carbon dioxide gas produced by the growth 

of yeast — a microscopic plant. 

(c) From the expansion of entangled air, incorporated 

in the dough by means of ( i ) beating batters ; 
(2) folding thick doughs; (3) beating air into 
eggs, especially the whites — then folding them 
into the mixture. 
(d) From the expansion of water to steam. 



X LESSONS IN COOKING 

Proportions 

Use two level teaspoons baking powder to one cup of 
flour. 

Use one teaspoon less of baking powder for each egg 
added after two have been used. 

Use one-half teaspoon soda with one and a quarter tea- 
spoon cream of tartar. 

Use one-half teaspoon soda with one cup sour milk. 

Use one-half teaspoon soda with one-half cup molasses. 

Two teaspoons baking powder are equivalent to one-half 
teaspoon soda in the above combinations. 

The yeast plant grows best at 75 to 90 degrees F. It 
changes sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide gas. Flour 
contains a small proportion of sugar and during bread mak- 
ing some of the starch is changed into sugar, but the yeast 
begins to act more quickly if a little sugar or glucose is 
added at first. Salt and fats in quantity hinder the growth 
of the yeast. Low temperatures stop the growth almost 
completely ; high temperatures kill the plant. 

When eggs are used as leavening agents, the whites are 
beaten separately, as they will hold much more air than 
the yolks, and folded into the mixture the last thing, break- 
ing as few air cells as possible. 

When air is depended on for leavening agent, all mate- 
rials are kept as cold as possible. Cold air expands more 
on heating than warm air. In pastry making, heat also 
melts the fat, so that the dough cannot be handled. 

SHORTENING 

Fats are added to doughs to make the product brittle — 
friable — "short," and to enrich the mixture. The fat coun- 
teracts the adhesive properties of the gluten and starch 
in flour. 

Pastry flours contain less gluten than bread flours and 
so require less shortening. 

Butter and oleomargarine contain about one-eighth water 
and salt, and thus have less shortening powers than lard, 
drippings, snowdrift, cottolene, etc., which contain no water. 

Proportions 

Two cups of flour (eight ounces) made into puff paste 
requires eight ounces (one cup) of shortening. 



FEOCESSEH IN COOKING xi 

Two cups of flour in ordinary pie crust requires four 
ounces (one-half cup) of sliortening. 

Two cups of flour in cookies requires four ounces (one- 
half cup) of shortening, or less. 

Two cups of flour in cake requires about three ounces of 
shortening. 

Two cups of flour in short cake requires two ounces (one- 
fourth cup) of shortening, or more. 

Two cups of flour in tea biscuits requires one-half to one 
ounce (one to two tablespoons) or more of shortening. 

In yeast doughs less shortening is used — from one-half 
to an ounce to two cups of flour. The tenacity of the 
gluten is required to hold the carbon dioxide gas slowly 
formed by the yeast, hence too much shortening prevents 
proper rising. 

Shortening for batters may be melted and mixed in, but 
in doughs which are to be rolled — pastry, cookies, short 
cake, biscuit, etc. — the fat should be cold and hard and cut 
into the flour with a knife, or rubbed in with the tips of the 
fingers. 

FLAVORING 

The flavoring materials most commonly used are salt, 
sugar, spices and extracts. The fine art of cookery con- 
sists of developing the full natural flavor of the foods them- 
selves and in combining them in pleasing ways. 

The amount of salt to be used depends, in general, on the 
total volume of the food. When food tastes salty, too much 
has been used. A safe proportion is one teaspoon salt to 
one quart of liquid in soups, sauces, or to one quart of 
flour in doughs, and for cereals one teaspoon to each pint 
of water used. When the flavors are delicate, somewhat 
less salt is used, and with strong flavors, somewhat more. 
Cakes in which much salt butter is used do not need more 
salt. 

The quantity of sugar to be used depends on the taste 
desired. Foods served frozen need more sweetening than 
when at ordinary temperatures. On the other hand, foods 
that are served warm taste somewhat sweeter than when at 
ordinary temperature. 



xu LESSONS IN COOKING 

FOOD PRINCIPLES 

The nutritive part of foods or "food priaciples" are the pro- 
teins, fats, carbohydrates, water and salt. 

Proteins contain nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, and 
sometimes phosphorus and sulphur. They make up the greater part 
of the muscles and organs of the body and are needed in food for 
the growth and repair of body tissue. Proteins are also used by 
the body as "fuel" to keep the body warm and give muscle and 
other kinds of energy or power. 

The proteins make up a considerable proportion of meat, eggs, 
cheese, skim milk, beans, peas and nuts, and are present in lesser 
proportion in all food products except the pure fats, sugars and 
starches. 

Fats contain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen only. The fats and 
oils are concentrated fuel foods and yield to the body 2^4 times the 
heat and energy given by like weights of dry protein or starch or 
sugar. 

Carbohydrates or starch, sugar and a few gums and substances 
like them contain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen only. The hydrogen 
and oxygen are in the same proportion as is found in water, hence 
the name carbo-hydrates. Cellulose or woody fibre is also a carbohy- 
drate, but as it is not digestible it is not a food for man. 

The carbohydrates, like the fats, are fuel foods and yield warmth 
and the power to do the work to the body when oxidized by the air 
brought in by the lungs. 

Excess of food over the requirements of the body, if digested, 
is stored as fatty tissue for use, if need be, as fuel. 

Water is needed for the fluids of the body, to carry away wastes 
and to regulate the temperature through perspiration. 

Salts are needed in the formation of bones, digestive fluids and 
as a small but necessary part of every living cell in the body. They 
are present in nearly all foods, being most abundant in vegetables, 
fruits, milk and eggs. 

FOOD UNITS 

As the unit of weight is the pound so the unit of food value 
is the "calorie." This is really a heat unit and is the quantity of 
heat required to raise the temperature of a kilogram of water 1° 
Centigrade, or approximately to raise the temperature of one pound 
of water 4° F. An ounce of dry protein, starch or sugar gives to 
the body 116 calories and an ounce of fat produces 264 calories. 



LESSONS IN COOKING xiii 

The number of calories or food units needed by the body per 
day depends on the amount of exercise taken, the size of body, and 
to a less extent on age, sex, weather and personal peculiarities. For 
a man of average size and weight taking light exercise, this means 
about 2,800 calories or food units per day; for an average woman 
2,200 calories; for a child of 7 to 9 years, 1,400 calories. (See page 
71 for Table of Food Eequirements.) 

To be in correct proportion from 10% to 15% of the total food 
units should be in the form of protein, 25% to 40% in form of fat 
and from 40% to 60% in the form of starch and sugar, 

ABBREVIATIONS 

Except in Part I, the following abbreviations are used through- 
out Lessons in Cooking. 

teaspoon t 

tablespoon T 

cup c 

minute m 

hour h 

lesson L 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 





■^^^^^^^H t^H 





A LESSON IN MEASURING 

Correct Method of Measuring, One Half and One Quarter Spoons 

Shown on the Table. 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

THE art of cookery is as old as history ; its development 
measures the development of civilization. More people 
are engaged in cooking all or a part of their time than 
in any other occupation. On the selection and preparation 
of food depends, more than on any single factor, the health 
and consequent happiness and prosperity of mankind. 

Cookery is, or should be, a fine art. Like other arts, it 
has its laws of proportion, harmony and contrast. The art 
of cookery appeals to the sense of taste, music to the sense of 
hearing, and the graphic arts to the sense of sight. Gratifica- 
tion of the sense of taste is as legitimate as enjoyment from 
any of the senses. The temperate indulgence of the sense 
of taste is indeed necessary for good digestion, on which 
depend physical well-being and efficiency. A systematic 
study of cooking, then, should be a fundamental part of the 
education of the home-maker. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

1. Have the kitchen arranged so that utensils and food 
materials are close at hand. A cabinet, shelves, or hooks 
for small utensils — measuring cups, spoons, knives, forks 
and egg beaters ; and cooking materials — salt, pepper, spices, 
baking powder, soda, sugar, etc., can be placed conveniently 
in any kitchen. 

2. Clean up as you go along. Put things away imme- 
diately after use. Make use of as few mixing and cooking" 
dishes as possible by rinsing or washing and using again. 
Put to soak in water dishes that cannot be cleansed easily. 
Do not make half an hour's dishwashing in preparing a 
meal. Work neatly — do not "clutter up" the kitchen. 

3. Before beginning to cook, make sure that hands and 
nails are perfectly clean and the hair neatly dressed. 

4. If you cannot remember the recipes, copy them on a 
slip of paper, or, better, on cards perforated so that they 
may be hung on a convenient hook. Preserve the cards in 
an alphabetical card file for future use. 

5. All measurements are level. Sift flour before 
measuring. 3 teaspoons =1 tablespoon; 16 tablespoons =; 
I cup ; 2 cups = I pint. 

9 



10 LESSONS IN COOKING 

The directions for preparing the meals are based, for the 
most part, on the use of gas as fuel. They apply, as well, to 
gasoline and blue-flame oil stoves, except that these are 
usually a little slower in action. When a coal range is used, 
more time must be allowed for preparing meals, unless the 
fire is in proper condition. If hard coal is the fuel, it is 
desirable to have coke or charcoal and wood on hand, to 
obtain quick heat when the fire is low. The inexpensive 
lamp oil stove may be used in connection with a coal stove 
to save time. 

SETTING THE TABLE 

Have the tablecloth of correct size to hang well at the ends 
and sides of the table. Put on the silence cloth smoothly. 
Lay tablecloth with the crease exactly in the middle of the 
table. Breakfast and luncheon are often served on the bare 
table with doilies or mats under plates, glass and serving 
dishes. 

Arrange plates an even distance apart around the table, 
right side up, one inch from edge of table. 

Place knife at the right, sharp edge towards the plate. 
Fork at the left, tines up. Spoon or spoons beside the knife, 
bowl up. Napkin neatly folded or in ring beside the fork. 

Place tumbler at the right, opposite the farther edge of 
plate. Bread and butter plate or butter plate at the left, in 
line with tumbler. 

Be sure that all the required serving spoons, knives and 
forks are on the table or are put on when dishes are served, 
together with required plates or saucers for each course. 

Be sure that all the "constants" are on — bread and butter, 
milk and water, sugar, salt and pepper and condiments, oil 
and vinegar as needed. Place inside the line of plates. 

The harmony of the meal should never be disturbed 
through forgetting required dishes, condiments, etc. 

(For further direction see Laying the Table for Formal 
Dinner, page 415.) 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 

Monday Lesson 1 

BREAKFAST 

OATMEAL — CREAM AND SUGAR 

SOFT COOKED EGGS BUTTERED TOAST 

COFFEE 

Oatmeal 

Into the upper part of a double boiler put 2 cups of hot 
water with Yi teaspoon salt. Place directly over the flame 
or hot coals, and when the water is boiling, slowly stir into 
it % cup rolled oats. Let the mixture boil for a few 
moments, stirring" occasionally, then set over hot water in 
the lower part of the boiler and cook for at least i hour, 
preferably 2 hours. 
Soft Cooked Eggs 

Put I quart of boiling water into a hot saucepan, gently 
lower 4 eggs into the water, and let stand, covered, on the 
back of the range, where the heat will be neither increased 
nor diminished, for 8 or 10 minutes. 

The albumen of eggs begins to harden or "coagulate" at 
a temperature of 134° F. ; between 160° and 180° it becomes 
white throughout, tender and jelly-like ; it loses this con- 
sistency at about 200°, and at boiling temperature (212°) it 
becomes tough and less digestible. When the cold eggs 
are put into the boiling water the temperature is imme- 
diately lowered to about 180° F. Test this with a ther- 
mometer if you have one. 
Buttered Toast 

Cut stale bread into slices about ^ inch in thickness. 
With a gas stove, place them under the oven burners or 
arrange on a toaster fitted for a burner on top the stove. 
Turn the pieces often, so that they may be evenly browned. 

As soon as both sides have become a golden brown, butter, 
lay buttered sides together, and send to the table very hot. 

Note. — To keep toast, etc., hot on a gas stove, set plate 
or other serving dish on a hot burner, after the gas has 
been turned off, and cover with an inverted pan. 
Coffee 

In a coffee pot that has been well aired and well scalded, 
put twice as many level teaspoons of ground coffee as 
there are cups to be served ; add as many eggshells, washed 

11 



12 LESSONS IN COOKING 

before the eggs were broken, as there are cups to be served ; 
or part of the white of an egg may be used. Add i table- 
spoon cold water for each cup of liquid desired, and mix 
thoroughly; add the required number of cups of freshly 
boiling water, and let boil 5 minutes after boiling begins. 
Pour a little cold water, ^4 cup, down the spout, and set the 
pot where it will keep hot, without simmering, for 10 min- 
utes. If at the end of that time for any reason the coffee 
cannot be served at once, pour the liquid from the grounds 
and keep hot. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start cooking the cereal for breakfast while getting dinner 
or washing the dishes the evening before. Let it cook until 
the evening work is done ; remove from the heat, cover the 
double-boiler tightly, and let stand on range until next 
morning. If steam radiators are convenient, set the boiler 
on the radiator and it will keep hot all night. Or, better 
still, if you have a "fireless cooker," put the cereal in that. 

With a gas stove, light the gas under the cereal cooker 
the first thing. Next put on a kettle of water to heat. Grind 
and make the cofifee and cut the bread for toast. 

Set the table, cut the butter, and fill cream pitchers. _ Start 
the eggs to cooking. Then toast the bread, butter it, and 
place the toast either in the oven or on top of a burner to 
keep hot while the cereal is being eaten. 

Serve the cereal in warm cereal bowls. Never put food 
supposed to be hot into cold dishes. 

By the time the cereal is eaten, the coffee, eggs and toast 
are ready to serve. Send the eggs to the_ table either all 
together, wrapped in a napkin and placed in a dish, or in 
individual egg cups. 

Monday Lesson 2 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP — CROUTONS 
BREAD AND BUTTER COCOA 

Cream of Pea Soup 

To y2 can of peas add i teaspoon sugar, % teaspoon salt, 
I cup cold water, and i thin slice of onion. Simmer 20 
minutes and then rub through a puree sieve. 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 13 

Melt I tablespoon butter, to it add i tablespoon flour, and 
rub to a smooth paste. Gradually to this add i cup hot 
milk and blend smoothly. Cook, stirring constantly, for 
several minutes and until the mixture thickens. 

Add the peas, a dash of pepper, heat thoroughly and serve. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread in slices from ^ to ^ inch thick; then 
cut into small cubes. Brown in the oven, taking care that 
they are turned frequently enough to brown them evenly 
on all sides. 

Cocoa 

Scald 3 cups of milk in a double-boiler ; mix well 2 table- 
spoons cocoa powder, 2 tablespoons sugar, i teaspoon corn- 
starch and ys teaspoon salt in a saucepan and stir in grad- 
ually I cup boiling water and let boil 5 or 6 minutes ; turn 
the liquid into the hot milk and beat with a whisk or egg- 
beater 5 minutes. A scant teaspoon of vanilla added just 
before serving greatly improves the flavor. 

Serve with additional cream and sugar if desired, or 
with whipped cream, putting the cream in the cup and 
pouring the cocoa on it. 

In the above method of making cocoa the cornstarch gives 
a creamy consistency and the salt takes off any flat taste. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the peas to cooking for the cream of pea soup, and 
while they are simmering cut the bread for the croutons. 
Light the oven burners and put the croutons in a flat pan in 
the oven to dry out slowly. 

Next put the milk for the cocoa, and also the soup, in the 
double-boiler to heat, and while heating melt the butter and 
add the flour for thickening for the cream soup. Add the 
hot milk to this, and, when well blended, boil a few minutes 
and set over hot water, to continue cooking while the peas 
are rubbed through a sieve. Add the puree mixture to the 
thickened milk and let it cook while finishing the cocoa. 

Add hot water to the cocoa and sugar mixture, boil, and 
add to hot milk. Let cook a few minutes longer while 
cutting the bread and butter for luncheon. 

If you do not have a warming closet, fill the soup plates 



14 LESSONS IN COOKING 

and tureen with hot water, and when soup is ready to serve 
pour out the water, wipe the dishes, fill the tureen, and send 
with the hot plates to the table. 

At the same time fill the cups with hot water, so that they 
may be heating while the soup is being eaten. 

When ready for the cocoa, pour into a hot chocolate pot 
and serve at once. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 3 

BROILED SIRLOIN STEAK 

MASHED POTATOES BREAD AND BUTTER 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Broiled Beefsteak 

Wipe, trim ofif superfluous fat and bone ; heat the broiler 
very hot, rub it over with a bit of fat, and lay the steak on it. 
At first have the gas turned on full force, to obtain the 
intense heat necessary to the first searing of the meat. Sear 
the steak first on one side, then the other, and when browned 
lower the flame and continue cooking. 

If you have no broiler, heat a skillet sizzling hot, rub 
over lightly with a piece of fat, and proceed as above. With 
a coal fire, cook in a wire broiler directly over the hot coals. 
Turn frequently until the surface is well browned on both 
sides, then move away from the fire to finish. 

For a steak i inch in thickness, 5 to 8 minutes are 
required for its proper broiling, unless it is desired that it 
be well cooked all the way through, when 10 to 12 minutes 
will be required. For a steak i^ inches thick, 8 to 10 
minutes are required. 

When done, remove to the serving dish, which should be 
hot, sprinkle with salt and a little pepper, and spread with 
butter if desired. Serve at once. If kept hot the cooking 
will continue too far. 

If desired, add a little hot water — ^ cup or so — to the 
pan under the broiler rack, and when thoroughly mixed 
with the meat juices dropped from the steak, pour around 
the steak just before serving. If this is not desired, pour 
the liquid into a cup, to be used in soup or in gravies at 
some future time. Or a thickened gravy may be made. 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 15 

Gravy 

Pour the drippings from the steak into a frying pan; if 
necessary, add enough butter to make about 2 tablespoons 
and brown with 2 tablespoons flour ; pour about ^ cup boil- 
ing water into the dripping pan, thoroughly mix it with any 
juices that may be there, return to the cup and fill up with 
milk; gradually add to the browned flour and stir until it 
thickens ; serve. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Wash and pare 8 medium-sized potatoes of uniform size, 
cover with boiling salted water, and cook until tender when 
pierced with a fork. Water if just barely boiling is of the 
same temperature as when boiling rapidly, hence do not 
keep the water on potatoes boiling furiously. 

When the potatoes are done pass them through a vege- 
table ricer or mash them with a potato masher until all the 
lumps are gone. Add 3 tablespoons of butter, y^ teaspoon 
salt, and about 3^ cup hot milk or cream. Beat the mixture 
until light and creamy, reheat, and send to the table piled 
lightly in a hot vegetable dish. 

Floating Island 

In a double-boiler place 3 cups of milk and put on the 
stove to heat. 

Separate the yolks and whites of 2 eggs and with the 
yolks and 2 whole eggs beat 3^ cup sugar and 3^ teaspoon 
salt until the mixture is creamy. 

When the milk is heated, add slowly to the egg mixture, 
stirring all the time until well blended. Return to the 
double-boiler and cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture 
coats the bowl of the spoon. 

Remove from the fire, add i teaspoon vanilla, beat vigor- 
ously for a few minutes, then strain and cool. 

Beat the whites until stiff, add yi cup sugar and beat until 
very stiff, flavoring with Yz teaspoon of vanilla. 

Serve the custard in sherbet cups, with the whites piled 
in a spiral on the top. This spiral shape may be easily 
made by turning the spoon in the hand as the white of egg 
is dropped into the cup. 



16 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

The custard of the floating island should be made in the 
morning, so that it will be cold. 

About three-quarters of an hour before dinnertime, put 
on water for potatoes to heat, salting it. Wash and pare 
potatoes and put into the boiling water. 

Set the table. Prepare the white of egg for the pudding. 
Place the completed dessert in a cool place. 

Cut the bread and butter and place with water on the 
table. See that the steak knife and fork and salt and pepper 
are on the table. 

Note. — In hot weather do not put butter and water on 
the table until just before serving the meal. 

When the potatoes are about done, start the milk to 
heating, drain off water, mash, and add milk, butter and salt. 

Light the burners under the broiler. Put the mashed 
potatoes in the serving dish and place it in the oven to keep 
hot. If you have no warming closet, put the steak platter 
and plates in the upper part of the oven to get warm. Do 
. not let them become hot, as this harms china by making it 
brittle. 

Broil the steak, watching it constantly. 

When the steak is cooked, place it on the heated platter 
and serve with the hot mashed potatoes immediately. 

While the steak is cooking, put to soak the kettle in which 
the potatoes were cooked and other dishes used in preparing 
meal not already washed. 

Remove the steak course from the table and serve the 
dessert. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 4 

ICED CANTALOUPE OR GRAPE FRUIT 

CREAM OF WHEAT WITH DATES 

MUFFINS COFFEE 

Iced Cantaloupe 

The evening before, wash melons, place in refrigerator to 
thoroughly chill them for breakfast. In the morning cut 
them in two, scoop out the seeds, and serve. 
Cream of Wheat with Dates 

Follow the directions given for cooking oatmeal, using, 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 17 

however, ^ cup Cream of Wheat to 2 cups boiling water. 
Care must be taken in stirring the cereal into the boiling 
water, that it does not lump. 

In the morning just before serving, stir into the cereal 
about 8 dates scalded and cut into small pieces, or sprinkle 
them over the top. 

Muffins 

Sift together 2 cups of flour, J/^ teaspoon salt, 4 teaspoons 
baking powder, and 2 tablespoons of sugar. 

Beat an egg without separating until light ; add i ^4 cups 
milk, and stir at once into the dry ingredients. 

Add 2 tablespoons melted butter, beat thoroughly, and 
bake about 25 minutes in a hot, well-greased muffin pan in a 
moderately hot oven. 

CofTee 

Follow directions given in Lesson i. 

Preparing the Meal 

Light the gas under the cereal, and put on a kettle of 
water to heat. 

Have the muffin pans, measuring cup, spoons, knife, flour, 
baking powder, etc., on the table before beginning to work. 
Now light the oven and proceed to make the muffins. 

When the muffins are in the oven, grind and make the 
coffee ; and while that is cooking, set the table, cut the 
butter, fill the cream pitchers. 

Now cut the dates and add to the cereal, and then halve 
the melons and remove the seeds. Put each half on a small 
plate and place on the table. 

As soon as the family have finished their melon, serve the 
cereal in hot cereal bowls. The bowls should have been 
filled with hot water before the serving of the melon, or 
else placed in a warm place to heat. It is not a good thing 
for dishes to be placed in a hot oven to heat. This dry heat 
renders the china very brittle and thus causes it to break 
very easily. 

By the time the cereal is eaten the muffins and coffee will 
be done and ready to serve. Place the muffins on a hot plate 
and cover with a napkin. 

Be sure to put the cereal cooker to soak as soon as the 



15 LESSONS IN COOKING 

cereal has been served. Also any other utensils used in the 
preparation of the meal. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 5 

COTTAGE PIE 

BREAD AND BUTTER SWEET PRESERVES 

LEMONADE 

Cottage Pie 

Line a baking dish with mashed potatoes left from dinner 
the night before. In the center place chopped meat (rem- 
nants of the steak) and gravy. Season well, cover with 
mashed potato. Bake in hot oven 20 minutes. 
Lemonade 

Use the juice of ^ lemon for each glass of lemonade. 
Sweeten with 2 or 3 teaspoons sugar ; or — and this is much 
better — use sugar syrup for sweetening, as this mixes at 
once with the water. 

Preparing the Meal 

About y2 hour before lunch-time light the oven burners, 
and prepare the cottage pie and place in oven. 

Next make the lemonade, using very cold water. 

Now see that the table is set, then turn out a glass of jelly 
into a jelly dish and place on the table. 

Cut the bread and butter, and by this time the pie is done 
and ready to serve. 

DINNER 
Tuesday Leszon 6 

ROAST VEAL — GRAVY 

BAKED POTATOES BREAD AND BUTTER 

COTTAGE PUDDING — CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Roast Veal 

After wiping the meat with a damp cloth, with tape or 
string bind it into a compact shape ; dredge with salt, pepper 
and flour. 

Put the meat into a hot oven; after 15 minutes' cooking, 
lower the heat, baste (that is, pour melted butter or other 
fat over the meat) frequently, and allow at least 20 minutes 
to the pound. Longer cooking is an advantage if the heat be 
gentle. 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 19 

Gravy 

When the roast is done, remove from the pan to a hot 
platter and set in a warm place. In the dripping- pan place 2 
tablespoons of flour and mix with the fat in the pan. If 
there is more than 2 or 3 tablespoons of fat, pour off some 
until the right amount is left. If there is less, add enough 
butter to make the correct proportion. 

Stir over the fire until the mixture is well browned, then 
slowly add 2 cups hot water or milk, or a combination of 
both. Soup stock also may be used. Stir until the gravy 
boils a few minutes, pour into a hot gravy boat and serve. 
Baked Potatoes 

Select potatoes of a uniform size; wash them and with a 
vegetable brush scrub them well so that the skins will be 
perfectly clean. Then put them in a hot oven. Potatoes of 
medium size require from 45 to 60 minutes ; they are at their 
best as soon as they are soft throughout. On removal from 
the oven, break the skin to let the steam escape, lest the 
naturally dry, mealy potato become soggy from the quickly 
condensing steam. 

To make potatoes especially mealy, roll them in a napkin 
or towel between the hands until the pulp is loosened, then 
break the skin. 
Cottage Pudding 

Cream }i cup butter, add ^ cup sugar and cream well. 
Beat I egg well, add to the sugar and butter. 

Mix and sift 2^4 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder 
and ^ teaspoon salt. Add the flour alternately v/ith i cup 
of milk to the sugar mixture. Add i teaspoon vanilla and 
bake 35 minutes in a moderate oven. Or bake in muffin 
rings, forming individual puddings. 
Chocolate Sauce 

Mix ^ cup sugar, i tablespoon cornstarch and 54 cup 
grated chocolate ; also J^ teaspoon salt. Gradually add i 
cup boiling water, stirring all the time. Boil 5 minutes. 

Remove from the fire, add i tablespoon butter and i tea- 
spoon vanilla. Serve with the pudding. 

Preparing the Meal 

About ij^ hours before dinnertime prepare the roast for 
the oven, first lighting the oven burners. After the meat 



20 LESSONS IN COOKING 

is in the oven prepare the potatoes for baking and put 
them in the oven. 

Now get out the materials and make the pudding, allow- 
ing about 35 minutes for it to bake if put in one large pan, 
or 20 to 25 minutes if baked in individual rings. 

When the pudding is in the oven, wash the dishes used in 
its preparation, and then see that the table is completely set 
for dinner. 

Now make the chocolate sauce, and while that is cooking, 
cut the bread and butter and place on the table. 

Fill the vegetable dish, platter, and the dinner plates with 
hot water, or heat otherwise. 

Now put the hot baked potatoes into a serving dish and 
send to the table with the roast. 

By this time the pudding is done so the burners can be 
extinguished, but unless the pudding is already very brown 
it can be left in the oven until ready to serve. 

Be sure to fill the roasting pan with water before going to 
dinner ; also, as soon as the pudding is served, put to soak 
the pudding pan and the vessel in which the sauce was 
cooked. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 7 

STEWED PRUNES 

CORN FLAKES — CREAM AND SUGAR 

FRENCH TOAST SYRUP COFFEE 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash the prunes well, cover with cold water, and soak 
over night. In the morning put them to cook in the water 
in which they were soaked, cooking very slowly below the 
boiling point. When the prunes are soft and almost done, 
add a little sugar if preferred. The long, slow cooking 
retains all the sugar that the fruit originally possessed, and 
makes additional sweetening unnecessary. 

French Toast 

Beat 2 eggs until light ; to them add i teaspoon salt, a 
grating of nutmeg, and i pint of milk. Mix well together. 

Cut stale bread into sHces ^ inch thick; dip the slices, 
one at a time, into the milk, and then place in a hot, well- 
buttered frying-pan. Brown on both sides and then serve 



SEPTEMBEB MENUS 21 

Sprinkled with powdered sugar, or with syrup, or plain with 
butter. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put on water to heat for the coffee. Dish the prunes 
which have previously been cooked and place at each plate 
at the table. 

Now grind and make the coffee. While it is cooking, beat 
the eggs and add the milk. Then cut the slices of stale 
bread for the French toast. 

Cut the butter and fill the cream pitchers and place on the 
table. Then fill cereal bowls with Corn Flakes. These may 
be placed on a small serving table in the dining room from 
which they can easily be served as soon as the fruit is 
finished. If not a fresh package, the Corn Flakes should be 
dried out in the oven. 

Fry the bread just before ready to serve. It is much 
better when freshly cooked. The coffee will be ready to 
serve by the time the bread is browned ; serve together, the 
cereal and fruit dishes having been removed. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 8 

COLD SLICED VEAL 

LYONNAISE POTATOES BREAD AND BUTTER 

TEA 

Cold Sliced Veal 

Slice very thinly the roast left from dinner the evening 
before and arrange on a bed of lettuce. 
Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Remove the skins from baked potatoes left from dinner, 
and cut into small cubes. 

Into a frying-pan put 2 tablespoons butter, % onion 
chopped fine, and 2 teaspoons chopped parsley. Add the 
potatoes and stir until they have absorbed all the butter 
and become slightly browned. Sprinkle J4 teaspoon salt 
over them and serve very hot. 
Tea 

Rinse the clean teapot, preferably of china ware, with 
boiling water, and let stand a moment on the stove to dry. 
Now put into it i teaspoon of tea for each cup of tea to be 



22 LESSONS IN COOKING 

made, and pour as many cups of furiously boiling water as 
desired. Put on the cover and let stand 5 minutes on the 
stove without boiling. Pour off the grounds and serve. 
If desired stronger, add more tea; do not steep longer. 
If too strong, add hot water. 

In preparing this meal, which should not take longer than 
20 minutes, first fill the tea-kettle and put it on the stove to 
heat. Then dice the potatoes, and while they are browning 
slice the meat. Now cut the bread and butter and make 
the tea. 

Turn the browned potatoes into a hot serving dish and 
send to the table. 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 9 

PAN-BROILED LAMB CHOPS 

MASHED POTATOES CREAMED PEAS 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

Pan-Broiled Lamb Chops 

With a damp cloth wipe the lamb chops, and if the 
butcher has not already trimmed them, cut off any fat that 
is not perfectly white and clean. 

Now heat a frying-pan until it is smoking-hot; then 
qnickly lay the chops in the pan and sear first on one side, 
then the other. When the chops are browned, lower the 
flame and cook 7 to 10 minutes, according to whether it is 
desired to have them rare or well done ; also according to 
the thickness. Usually they are about i inch thick, however. 
Place on a hot platter, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
spread with butter, or pour around them the fat in the pan. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Follow directions given in Lesson 3, page 15. 

Creamed Peas 

Drain the liquor from }4 can of peas. In a saucepan 
melt 3 tablespoons butter; to this add 3 tablespoons flour 
and 5^ teaspoon of salt ; when mixed to a smooth paste add 
gradually 13^ cups of milk. Heat, stirring all the time; 
boil a few minutes; add the peas, and when thoroughly 
heated serve at once. 



SEPTEMBEB MENUS >i3 

Prune Souffle 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs until stiff, cut and fold in ^2 
cup prune pulp and ^ cup sugar, beat until light and 
fluffy. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake in a slow- 
oven until firm. Or the souffle may be served without 
baking, a soft custard being usually poured over each 
serving, in that case. 

Preparing the Meal 

The peas for this meal were left from Monday's luncheon 
and the prunes for the souffle from breakfast. 

Forty minutes before dinnertime wash and pare the pota- 
toes and put them on to cook in boiling salted water. While 
they are cooking beat the eggs for the souffle and add the 
prune pulp which has previously been prepared. When the 
souffle is done set in the oven in a pan of water, or if desired 
to serve without cooking place in a cool place until ready 
for it. 

Next make the cream sauce for the peas and after the peas 
have been added set over hot water to become thoroughly 
heated. 

Now put the frying pan on the stove and while it is heat- 
ing prepare the chops for broiling. 

As soon as the chops are brown and are cooking slowly 
put a cup of milk on the fire to heat and then cut the bread 
and butter and place on the table. Now drain the water 
from the potatoes and mash. Put in a hot vegetable dish and 
send to the table. 

Transfer the chops to a hot chop plate and pour the peas 
into a serving dish. 

Remember to keep the dishes washed up as the work pro- 
ceeds and to fill each pan with water as soon as its contents 
have been removed. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 10 

GRAPES 

COLD WATER OATMEAL CREAM AND SUGAR 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS COFFEE 

Grapes 

Wash the grapes by first dipping in boiling water for an 
instant to kill all germs and insects, then let cold water run 
through the bunches. Serve very cold. 



24 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Lettuce, cress, parsley and all fresh vegetables eaten raw 
may be cleaned in this same way. 
Cold Water Oatmeal 

In the inner part of a double boiler place 2 cups of cold 
water, freshly drawn, add ^ teaspoon of salt and sprinkle 
in }i cup of rolled oats ;. put the double boiler over the fire 
and cook for an hour or two without stirring; do this the 
night before and reheat before serving. 

The dissolved air in fresh water keeps flaked cereals light. 
Compare results with the ordinary method of cooking oat- 
meal as given in Lesson I and decide which you prefer. 
Baking-powder Biscuits 

Into a mixing bowl sift 2 cups of flour with 4 teaspoons 
baking powder and ^ teaspoon salt; with the tips of the 
fingers work into the flour >4 tablespoon butter and ^ table- 
spoon lard; add gradually about ^ cup of milk or water, 
and with a knife mix with the flour to a soft dough; turn 
onto a floured board and roll lightly to yi inch in thickness ; 
cut with a biscuit cutter and bake 12 to 15 minutes in a hot 
oven. (Double the quantity of shortening if desired.) 

In preparing this breakfast, first light the gas under the 
cereal, then put on a kettle of water to heat and next light 
the burners for the biscuit ; get out the materials and make 
the biscuits. While baking, grind and make the coffee. See 
that the table is in readiness. Serve fruit, then cereal, with 
biscuits and coffee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 11 

MACARONI AND CHEESE - 

BREAD AND BUTTER WHOLE MILK 

QUINCE AND APPLE PRESERVE 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Break ^4 package macaroni into pieces i inch or longer; 
cover with boiling salted water and cook until tender, usually 
20 minutes or thereabouts. 

Drain, turn into a colander, place under the cold water 
faucet and let the cold water run through the macaroni until 
it is white and free from all the stickiness usually found 
when freshly boiled. 

Now mix together or arrange in layers in a baking dish I 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 25 

pint of the cooked macaroni and i cup of thin white sauce, 
seasoned with salt and pepper and ^ cup grated or chopped 
cheese ; sprinkle the top with buttered crumbs and bake in a 
hot oven until heated throughout and browned on the top. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I hour before lunch time start the macaroni to 
cooking and then make the white sauce, using 2 tablespoons 
butter and i tablespoon flour to i cup of milk. 

When the macaroni is cooked and ready to be mixed with 
the sauce, light the oven and then arrange the macaroni in a 
baking dish. A few minutes before it is done cut the bread 
and butter and put the milk on the table ready for luncheon. 

While the macaroni is in the oven the dishes used in boil- 
ing it and also in making the white sauce may be washed, 
thus leaving only the dishes actually used on the table to be 
washed after lunch. 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 12 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP CRACKERS 

BROILED SKIRT STEAK 

CREAMED POTATOES PICKLES 

BAKED CUSTARD 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

In a saucepan melt 3 tablespoons butter and to it add 3^ 
tablespoons flour; stir to a smooth paste, then add 2 cups 
canned tomatoes, gradually blending with the flour mixture ; 
now add }i teaspoon soda, i teaspoon salt and a slice of 
onion. 

Return to the fire and cook 5 minutes ; strain and cool. 

When cold add ij^ cups cold milk, heat and serve. 

Broiled Skirt Steak 

Have the butcher make "rosettes" of strips of skirt steak, 
or else make them at home by rolling up a strip of meat 
about 2 inches wide and 3 or 4 inches long, fastening with 
a skewer for a handle ; now proceed according to directions 
given in Lesson i for broiling sirloin steak. 
Creamed Potatoes 

Cut plain boiled potatoes into J^-inch cubes suflticient to 
fill lyz cups; heat in i cup white sauce. 



26 LESSONS IN COOKING 

White Sauce 

In a saucepan melt 2 tablespoons butter ; to it add 2 table- 
spoons flour ; when mixed to a smooth paste, add gradually 
I cup of milk; return to the fire, cook, stirring constantly, 
until the mixture thickens ; boil a few minutes to thoroughly 
cook the starch, taking care, however, that it does not 
scorch. 

Add the diced potatoes, heat well and serve. 
Baked Custard 

Beat 4 eggs slightly ; add >4 cup sugar, }^ teaspoon salt 
and a few gratings of nutmeg; beat well and add i quart 
milk ; strain into buttered custard cups and set in a pan of 
hot water in a slow oven ; bake until firm. This may be de- 
termined by inserting a pointed knife in the custard. If it 
comes out clean the custard is done. 

Care must be taken that the water surrounding the moulds 
does not boil. Because of the low coagulating point of eggs 
any mixture containing a number of them must be cooked at 
a low temperature in order to obtain the best results. 

Preparing the Meal 

In the morning after breakfast, cook and strain the toma- 
toes for soup for supper. Then make the custard so that it 
will have ample time to cool before serving for dinner; ^ 
hour before dinner time pare the potatoes and put them on 
to cook, and then make the white sauce for them ; now pre- 
pare the steak for broiling, if the butcher has not already 
done so ; light the broiler burners and while broiler is heat- 
ing cut the bread and butter and put on the table ; also put 
the pickles in a dish and set on the table. 

Now add the cold milk to the tomato mixture and put in a 
double boiler to heat. While heating put the steak on the 
broiler, and after searing both sides, lower flame and cook 
more slowly. 

Drain water from potatoes and dice them; add to white 
sauce, which has been heating. 

Serve the soup from a hot tureen into hot plates; after 
soup plates have been removed, increase the heat under the 
potatoes for a few seconds to be sure that they are thor- 
oughly hot before serving ; remove to a hot vegetable dish ; 
put the steak on a hot platter and quickly make the gravy, 



SEPTEMBEB MENUS 27 

having put some milk on to heat while soup was being 
served ; pour gravy into hot dish and send with steak and po- 
tatoes to the table. 

Fill all the cooking utensils with water before sitting 
down to dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 13 

FRIED APPLES 

CORNMEAL GEMS MOCK MAPLE SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Fried Apples 

Pare, core and slice several apples ; in a frying pan put 3 
tablespoons butter and when melted add the apples ; sprinkle 
^ cup sugar over them and cook slowly, taking care that 
they brown, but do not scorch ; when tender and transparent 
remove from the fire and serve. 
Corn Meal Gems 

Mix and sift 3^ cup cornmeal, i cup flour, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, i tablespoon sugar ; add ^ cup milk grad- 
ually, then I egg well beaten, i tablespoon melted butter 
and }4 teaspoon salt — bake in hot gem pans. 
Mock Maple Syrup 

To I cup brown sugar add ^ cup water, i teaspoon but- 
ter, yl teaspoon salt, and boil for 5 minutes; remove from 
fire and add ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

In preparing this meal put a kettle of water on to heat the 
first thing ; then light the oven and get out the materials and 
make the gems. 

After the gems are in the oven, prepare the apples and 
start them to cooking, after which the mock maple syrup 
may be made. 

Now make the coffee, and while that is cooking cut the 
butter for the table and fill the cream pitchers. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 14 

CORN SOUFFLE 
BREAD AND BUTTER COCOA 

Corn Souffle 

Mix ^ can corn, yolks 3 eggs, i cup of milk, ^2 teaspoon 
salt and i tablespoon melted butter together; carefully fold 



28 LESSONS IN COOKING 

in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs ; pour the mixture into 
a baking dish, set in a pan of water and bake until firm. 
Notice that this souffle is a variation of the baked custard 
and might be called a vegetable custard. 

Remove remainder of corn from tin can to a granite or 
porcelain bowl and place in a cool place until needed. 

Cocoa 

Follow directions given in Lesson 2, page 13. 

About 45 minutes before lunch time prepare the corn 
souffle and place in the oven. 

After setting the table and getting everything in readiness 
for lunch, 15 minutes before serving time make the cocoa, 
and while that is cooking cut the bread and butter and place 
on the table. 

When the souffle is firm serve from the dish in which it is 
baked. 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 15 

BROILED HALIBUT 

STUFFED POTATOES CABBAGE AND NUT SALAD 

CORNSTARCH BLANC MANGE 

Broiled Halibut 

With a damp cloth wipe the halibut steaks, rub over with 
salt and butter and put on the hot broiler ; brown both sides 
quickly, lower the flame and cook about 15 minutes, or until 
the flesh is white and tender. 

Serve at once with Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Cream ^ cup butter, add ^ teaspoon salt, ys teaspoon 
pepper, ^ teaspoon finely chopped parsley and ^ teaspoon 
lemon juice very slowly. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

From the flat side of a well-baked potato cut a thin slice ; 
with a spoon carefully scoop out the mealy potato, being care- 
ful not to break the shell ; now mash the potato until light 
and creamy, refill the shells and place under the broiler 
burners to brown ; when well browned serve at once. 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Shred a small cabbage finely; to it add ^ cup chopped 



SEPTEMBEB MENUS 29 

nuts (peanuts are very nice for this) and cover with salad 
dressing ; serve very cold on a bed of lettuce. 
Salad Dressing 

Mix together in a measuring cup j/2 teaspoon mustard, ^4 
teaspoon salt, lyi tablespoons sugar; fill up to the 3^ mark 
with vinegar; now pour this mixture slowly on the well- 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs, beating all the time ; cook over hot 
water, stirring constantly, until the mixture is thick ; when 
ready to use thin with cream ; evaporated milk is especially 
nice to use for this purpose. For a fruit salad, fruit juice 
may be used for thinning. 
Cornstarch Blanc Mange 

Mix 4 tablespoons cornstarch and 2 tablespoons sugar 
with y2 cup cold milk; when smooth add lyz cups hot milk, 
to which y2 teaspoon salt has been added ; cook directly over 
the fire, stirring constantly, until the mixture boils ; then put 
in double boiler and cook about ^ hour; add i teaspoon 
vanilla, pour the pudding into moulds moistened with cold 
water and set aside to cool. 

When ready to serve unmould and serve plain or with 
cream, washed and sweetened strawberries, or fruit juice. 

Preparing the Meal 

One hour before dinner time wash and scrub 6 medium 
sized potatoes and put them in the oven to bake. 

While they are baking shred the cabbage and chop the 
nuts for the salad. The salad dressing as well as the corn- 
starch blanc mange should have been made in the morning 
after breakfast. 

Finish the salad and set in the refrigerator to keep cool 
until ready to use. 

Now prepare the halibut for broiling and about ^ hour 
before serving time place in the broiling oven. After the 
fish is browned lower the flame that it may be thoroughly 
cooked without burning. 

When the potatoes are baked, scoop out the centers and 
mash. Refill the shells and return to the oven to brown. It 
is best to put them directly under a flame so that they will 
brown quickly without drying out. When they are browned 
remove to a hot plate garnished with parsley. 

Put the fish on a hot platter and serve at once. 



30 LESSONS IN COOKING 

While the potatoes are browning the bread and butter may 
be cut and the blanc mange transferred to serving plates. 

Fill all the cooking utensils with hot water so that they 
may be soaking while the family are at dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 16 

SHREDDED WHEAT WITH SLICED BANANAS 
POACHED EGGS ON TOAST COFFEE 

Shredded Wheat with Sliced Bananas 

Put the shredded wheat biscuits in the oven for a few min- 
utes to make them very crisp, slice ^ banana over each and 
serve with cream and sugar. 

Poached Eggs 

Brush over the bottom of an iron frying pan with butter 
or oil, then partly fill with boiling water, adding salt or a lit- 
tle lemon juice or vinegar; break the eggs, one at a time, 
into a cup and very gently slip into the boiling water. The 
eggs will lower the temperature of the water so that it will 
not boil ; now keep it below the boiling point and let the eggs 
remain in the water five or six minutes until cooked to the 
consistency desired. 

Remove from the water with a skimmer and arrange on 
slices of toast. 

Preparing the Meal 

The first thing in the morning put on a kettle of water to 
heat. Then grind the coffee and when the water is hot 
make it; now cut the bread for the toast, fill the cream 
pitchers and attend to setting the table 

Put the shredded wheat biscuits in the oven to heat ; when 
crisp serve, slicing bananas over them just before sending 
to the table. 

Start the eggs to poaching and while they are cooking 
make the toast, watching the eggs in the meanwhile. 

When the eggs are done remove from the water to slices 
of toast and send at once to the table. Serve the coffee and 
buttered toast at the same time. 



SEPTEMBEB MENUS 81 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 17 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS — CATSUP 
BROWN BREAD TEA 

Boston Baked Beans 

Friday morning early, or the night before, put 2 cups of 
navy beans to soak. While getting dinner Friday parboil the 
beans until the skins crack very easily. After dinner Friday 
score the rind of 34 pound salt pork; mix 2 tablespoons of 
molasses, 5^ teaspoon salt and |^ teaspoon of mustard to- 
gether with I cup hot water ; drain the water from the beans 
and put part of them in an earthenware bean pot, then the 
pork and cover with the remainder of the beans, leaving a 
little of the pork rind exposed ; put in a whole small onion, 
if desired ; add the molasses mixture and hot water, if nec- 
essary to cover ; put on cover, heat in the oven an hour 
and transfer to a fireless cooker over night if you have 
one ; or leave in the coal range oven over night ; or, if your 
gas oven has a lighter burner, cook the beans with it only 
lighted ; or put in a small portable oven placed over the 
"simmer" burner. The beans must be cooked slowly for 12 
hours or more, adding water from time to time as necessary. 
The last hour bake uncovered to permit the pork and beans 
to brown. 

Brown Bread 

Mix and sift i cup rye meal, i cup granulated cornmeal, i 
cup graham flour, }i teaspoon soda and i>^ teaspoon salt. 
Add ^ cup molasses and i ^ cups sweet milk or water. Stir 
until well mixed, turn into a buttered mold, and steam 3 
hours in a tightly covered can. Remove to oven and bake 
y2 hour. Never fill moulds more than two-thirds full. One 
pound baking powder cans make attractive shaped loaves. 

The bread can be made the day before, put in a steamer, 
and reheated just before serving. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 10 minutes before lunch time put on a kettle o£ 
water to heat for the tea. Then put bread in steamer to 
reheat. Now set the table for lunch, cut the butter and put 
on the table. When this is done, prepare the teapot for the 
tea and put the tea to steep. Remove the beans from the 



32 LESSONS IN COOKING 

oven, transfer from the pot to a hot vegetable dish and 
send at once to the table. Strain the tea and serve the hot 
bread. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 18 

VEAL CUTLETS — GRAVY 

MASHED POTATOES SLICED TOMATOES 

MOCK RASPBERRY MOUSSE 

Veal Cutlets 

Wipe the cutlets with a damp cloth ; in a frying pan put 
2 tablespoons butter; when smoking hot add the cutlets; 
brown quickly on both sides, then lower the flame ; add yi 
cup broth or hot water and cook slowly for about 15 min- 
utes, or until the meat is tender. By this time the liquid will 
have evaporated and a thick brown gravy will be in the pan. 

Remove the meat to a hot platter, add 2 tablespoons flour 
to the liquid in the pan and when well browned add 2 cups 
milk, broth, hot water or a combination of any two or all 
three ; stir until the gravy boils, when it is ready to serve. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Follow directions given in Lesson 3. 
Sliced Tomatoes 

To peel tomatoes, pour boiling water over them, drain and 
peel. The skin will now slip easily off; chill before slicing; 
if there is not time to chill the tomatoes after peeling, do not 
pour the boiling water over them, but instead, with the dull 
blade of a knife go all over the surface of the tomato as if 
peeling it, but not, however, breaking the skin; now make 
an incision and the skin will slip off almost as easily as when 
hot water is used. 

Mock Raspberry Mousse 

Soak 54 package gelatine in % cup cold water ^ hour, 
then dissolve in ^ cup hot water ; add i cup of sugar and 
stir until dissolved, then strain into a dish standing in ice 
water ; when cool add i cup raspberry juice and pulp and the 
juice of I lemon ; beat until light and continue beating until 
the mixture will hold its shape; pour into a chilled mould 
and put in a cold place until firm and ready to serve. 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 33 

Preparing the Meal 

About }i hour before dinner time wash and pare 6 me- 
dium sized potatoes and put them on to cook in boiUng salted 
water; now sHce the tomatoes which have been previously 
peeled and place in a cool place until ready for them. 

Prepare the meat for cooking and after it is browned and 
cooking slowly set the table, cut the bread and butter and 
put some milk on the stove to heat for the mashed potatoes ; 
drain and mash the potatoes and set on the back of the 
range to keep warm until needed ; transfer the meat to a 
hot platter and make the gravy. Serve the dinner at once. 

Unmold the mousse, which should have been made in the 
morning, just before serving; serve either plain or with 
cream or a soft custard. 
Cake for Sunday Evening 

In a mixing bowl cream ^ cup butter ; to it add ^ cup 
sugar and beat until very creamy. To this mixture add al- 
ternately % cup water and i^ cups flour, with which 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder has been sifted ; beat well. Now fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs, left from the day before 
when the yolks were used for the salad dressing, and i tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

By "folding" is meant the process by which the whites of 
eggs may be mixed in without the destruction and loss of 
air bubbles that have already been formed. To do this with 
a spoon, cut down to the bottom of the dish, turn, bring to 
the top and fold over the mixture thus brought to the sur- 
face ; repeat the process until the ingredients are well 
blended. 

Bake the cake either in layers or in a loaf. It is very nice 
baked in a square pan so that a cake about 2 inches thick 
results. This then can be frosted and cut into 2-inch squares. 

To prepare a cake pan, first grease the pan, then cover 
with oiled paper the size of the pan ; sprinkle this with flour 
and then pour in the cake batter ; or if the paper is omitted, 
flour the pan after greasing. This cake requires ahout 15 
minutes in a moderate oven if baked in layers, or from 25 
to 30 if baked in a loaf. To test a cake insert a clean straw ; 
if it comes out clean the cake is done ; if it has anything ad- 
hering to it the cake must bake a longer time. 



84 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Boiled Icing 

To I cup sugar add ^ cup hot water and boil without 
stirring until the syrup forms a soft ball when dropped into 
cold water; or boil to 238° F. if you have a thermometer; 
remove from the fire and very carefully pour into a cool 
dish ; when almost cold, add ^ teaspoon flavoring extract 
and beat until creamy ; spread on the cake, 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 19 

CODDLED APPLES 

FARINA CREAM AND SUGAR 

BUTTERED TOAST COFFEE 

Coddled Apples 

Wash and core 6 tart apples, red in color, if possible, but 
do not pare them ; in a saucepan put 2 cups of hot water and 
I cup of sugar ; when sugar is dissolved place the apples in 
the water; cover and cook until the apples are tender; re- 
move apples from syrup and place in the oven to dry ofif; 
boil syrup until thick and pour around the apples ; serve 
with or without cream. 

Farina 

Follow the rule for cream of wheat given in Lesson 4. 

Buttered Toast 

Follow directions for toast given in Lesson i. 

Preparing the Meal 

Light the gas under the cereal and put on a kettle of 
water to heat. 

Wash and core the apples and start them to cooking. 

Now grind and make the coffee and then light the oven 
burners for the toast ; cut the bread and butter, fill the cream 
pitchers and place on the table. 

Now make the toast, butter and place in the oven with 
the burners extinguished until needed. 

Serve the apples as soon as they are done. After that 
serve the cereal, toast and coffee together. 

Fill the cereal cooker and also the pan in which the apples 
were cooked with water. 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 35 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 20 

ROAST BEEF 

BROWNED POTATOES FRUIT SALAD 

PEACH TAPIOCA WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Roast Beef 

Let the meat to be roasted, after being skewered or tied 
into a compact shape, rest on a rack in the dripping pan 
skin side down ; dredge with flour and sear over the outside 
in a hot oven ; then add salt, pepper and drippings and cook 
at a low temperature until done, basting every lo minutes; 
after a time turn the roast to brown the skin side ; when 
properly cooked the outside fat is crisp and brown, the lean 
beneath is browned to the depth of }i inch and the whole 
interior is evenly red and juicy; allow 15 to 20 minutes 
per pound for roast beef, keeping the temperature low. 
Browned Potatoes 

Wash and pare 8 medium sized potatoes, and % hour be- 
fore the roast is done put the potatoes in the dripping pan 
with the roast ; bake until tender. 
Fruit Salad 

Peel and divide into sections i orange; cut into pieces 
about i-inch long; slice 3 bananas with the orange and add 
I apple cut into small pieces. If convenient add a little 
canned pineapple, also a little celery cut into small pieces and 
54 cup chopped nuts ; cover the whole with salad dressing. 
There should be enough left from Friday for this salad, 

A few Malaga grapes halved and seeded adds greatly to 
the delicacy of this salad. 
Peach Tapioca 

Cover 6 tablespoons "minute tapioca" with cold water; 
let soak a few minutes, then add i}i cups boiling water, 
^2 t salt and cook in double boiler until transparent. If 
scanned peaches are used, use the syrup on the peaches as far 
as possible, and if more liquid is necessary to make up i^ 
cups use hot water; also add }i cup sugar to the liquid in 
which the tapioca is cooked. In a baking pan arrange the 
halves of peaches over which powdered sugar has been 
sprinkled. When the tapioca is done pour over the peaches 
and set in a cold place. Serve very cold with whipped cream. 



36 LESSONS IN COOKING 

To Whip Cream 

If a regular cream whipper is not available put the cream 
in a deep bowl and whip with a Dover egg beater, taking 
care to keep it as cool as possible all the time. As the cream 
whips up remove the froth and continue whipping- until all 
the liquid has been changed to fluffy whipped cream. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I hour before dinner time prepare the roast and 
place in the oven ; then wash and pare the potatoes and put 
in the pan with the meat. 

Make the fruit salad and arrange on lettuce leaves on salad 
plates. 

The peach tapioca should have been made the day before 
to save any trouble on Sunday. While the meat and vege- 
tables are cooking whip the cream and put in a cool place. 

Now set the table, cut the bread and butter and then serve 
the dinner, taking care that the serving dishes as well as the 
dinner plates are hot. 

In serving the dessert, put ^ peach on each plate with its 
surrounding tapioca. On top pile the whipped cream. Serve 
very cold. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 21 

COLD SLICED BEEF 
GRAPE JELLY BREAD AND BUTTER 

PLAIN WHITE CAKE BOILED FROSTING 

TEA 

Slice the roast left from dinner very thinly and arrange on 
a platter on a bed of lettuce. 

Turn out a glass of grape jelly onto a jelly dish and put 
on the table. 

Make the tea according to directions given in Lesson 8. 

While the tea is steeping, cut the bread and butter; then 
cut the cake and arrange on a cake plate. 

Strain the tea and serve. 



SEPTEMBER MENUS 37 

HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS 

Coffee Percolator 

A percolator may be used for making coffee instead of 
boiling in the old-fashioned coffee-pot. The water in a per- 
colator boils very quickly, a quart requiring about 5 minutes 
to come to the boil, and then with 5 minutes' boiling the 
coffee will be ready for use. Be careful not to cook too 
long, as that will spoil the flavor of the coffee. Coffee made 
in the percolator is considered more wholesome than the 
boiled coffee, as there is less of the tannic acid drawn out 
than in the boiling. 

A dash of salt added to coffee, and also to tea, will add to 
the flavor. 

Cocoa and Chocolate 

A very convenient and quick way of preparing cocoa and 
chocolate is to cook together a large quantity of the cocoa 
or chocolate (i cup), sugar (i cup), cornstarch (3/2 cup), 
salt (i teaspoon), and water (2 cups) until smooth and 
glossy. Put into glass jars. When desired for use, take 
out quantity necessary (2 teaspoons to a cup) ; add the milk; 
heat, flavor, beat well, and serve. 
Marshmallows 

Marshmallows may be used in place of whipped cream in 
cocoa or chocolate. They melt and form a foamy covering, 
thus preventing the formation of the skin, which is un- 
desirable. 

Meringue 

Meringue, such as that used in the Floating Island, may 
be cooked by heating }i cup milk in a flat pan set over hot 
water. When scalding, drop the meringue by spoonfuls on 
top, cover, and let cook 5 minutes. When the meringue is 
cooked the proportion of sugar is decreased, using but i 
tablespoon to i egg-white. 

This process may be used any time when baking is not 
feasible. 

Sweetening Iced Beverages 

Since sugar does not dissolve readily in cold fruit juice, 
cold tea, etc., it is very convenient to use sugar syrup instead. 



38 . LESSONS IN COOKING 

Make it in quantity, one part sugar to one of water, and 
keep in tight jars ready for use when needed. 

Substitution for Cornstarch 

If desired to use flour instead of cornstarch in making 
Blanc Mange, etc., use double the quantity, as flour has only 
half the thickening power of cornstarch. Potato starch, 
rice flour and arrow root also can be substituted. 
Poaching Eggs 

Milk may be substituted for water in poaching eggs. 
The result is not only very delicious, but also possesses an 
increased food value. When poaching in milk, always set 
the poaching pan over hot water. 

Boiled Frosting 

Boiled frosting may be kept from hardening too rapidly 
by the following process : When the syrup drops thick like 
honey (230° F.) add 5 tablespoons to the white of i large 
egg, well beaten. Beat well. Cook the remainder of the 
syrup to the soft ball stage (238° F.), then add to the egg 
and syrup mixture. 

White Sauce 

There are three kinds of White Sauce generally used — 
thin, medium, and thick. The Thin is used for scalloped 
dishes, cream soups, cream toast, etc. The Medium is used 
for creamed vegetables, fish, etc., and the Thick for making 
croquettes and souffles. 

For Thin White Sauce use i tablespoon flour to 2 
tablespoons butter and i cup milk. 

For Medium White Sauce use 2 tablespoons flour, 2 
tablespoons butter and i cup milk. 

For Thick White Sauce use 4 tablespoons flour to 3 
tablespoons butter and i cup milk. 



SEPTEMBER MENUS- 



-COST AND 
PERSONS. 



FOOD VALUE— FOUR 



FOOD UNITS. 



Supplies — Cost. 

3 lbs. Flour $0.09 

1-7 lb. Cornstarch 01% 

1 lb. Cornmeal 04 

5 lbs. Bread 25 

% lb. Crackers 03 

% lb. Rice 01 

% pkg. Rolled Oats 01% 

% pkg. Cr. of Wheat 02 

% pkg. Corn Flakes . .02% 

Vs pkg. Sh'd. Wheat 04 

3.8 oz. Macaroni 02 

Vs lb. Tapioca 02 

5 V2 lbs. Sugar .33 

1/2 pt. Caramel Syrup 03 

1 pt. Syrup 06 

% pt. Orange Marmalade .13 

V2 pt. Grape Jelly 15 

Va lb. Honey 07 

2 lbs. Sirloin Steak 40 

2 lbs. Neck of Beef 28 

4 lbs. Shoulder Veal G4 

1 lb. Skirt Steak 12 

IVa lbs. Veal Cutlets 30 

4 lbs. Rump Roast 5G 

1 lb. Halibut 15 

21/2 doz. Eggs 50 

18 pts. Milk 72 

2 pts. Cream 40 

% lb. Cheese 05 

2 lbs. Butter 64 

% lb. Oleo 10 

1 pk. Potatoes 35 

1 pt. Navy Beans 05 

1 can Peas (1 lb.) 10 



1 can Corn (1 lb.) . . 
% lb. Peanuts 



.10 
.03 

1 small Cabbage C3 

1 can Tomatoes 10 

1 lb. Prunes 10 

1/2 lb. Dates 03 

3 Bananas 04 

2 Lemons 05 

1/4 pk. Apples 10 

2 Cantaloupes 10 

Vs basket Grapes 03 

1 Orange 03 

2 Bananas 03 

% basket Peaches 12 

% pt. Raspberries 05 

% pt. Catsup 03 

1-16 lb. Cocoa 04 

% lb. Coffee 22 

1-16 lb. Tea 03 



Totals §8.00 



Total. 

4,920 

265 

1,739 

6,025 

40O 

204 

426 

354 

730 

510 

400 

400 

10,230 

1,000 

2,000 

800 

1,000 

800 

1,070 

1,060 

1,920 

605 

1,035 

4,440 

470 

2,381 

5,850 

1,820 

514 

7,210 

1,762 

2,247 

1,605 

510 

500 

484 

145 

210 

1,600 

725 

200 

73 

440 

360 

209 

85 

150 

232 

200 

100 

145 



73,460 



Peotein. 
590 

'i57 
783 
36 
18 
77 
53 
80 
66 
60 
4 



8 

611 

572 

806 

254 

414 

2,398 

287 

762 

1,111 

91 

129 

36 

9 

247 

337 

126 

65 

96 

29 

44 

48 

14 

11 

7 

13 

21 

10 

5 

7 

16 

16 

10 

25 



10,563 



Fat. 
147 

'i&i 

362 
80 
2 
30 
18 
7 
23 



20 



1,359 

488 

1,114 

351 

621 

2,042 

183 

1,619 

3,042 

1,5G5 

375 

7,174 

1,753 

22 

289 

16 

50 

305 

12 

15 

"si 

11 
10 
31 

"32 
3 
8 
5 

"■3 

77 



Starch 

& Sugar. 

4,183 

265 

1,391 

4,880 

284 

184 

319 

283 

643 

421 

332 

392 

10,230 

1,000 

2,000 

776 

1,000 

792 



1,697 

164 

10 



1,978 
979 
368 
385 

83 
104 
151 
1,552 
660 
178 

56 
396 
339 
167 

77 
135 
211 
184 

87 

43 



23,518 39,379 



Food Units per Day — 10,494. Food Units per Day per Person — 2,623. 

Cost of Food per Day — $1.14. Cost per Day per Person — 10.28. 

Or THE Total Food Value 14% is Protein, 32% is Fat and 54% is 

Starch and Sugar. 

Note. — A well-balanced diet contains 10% to 15% of protein ^5% 
to 40 9o of fat, and 40% to 60% of starch and sugar (carbohydrates). 
An average sized man, with light exercise, requires per day a total of 
about 2,800 food units ; an average woman, 2,200 food units ; and a child 
7 to 9 years old, 1,400 food units. See Bulletin of the School, "Food 
Values." 

39 



40 LESaONS m COOKING 

SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING THE COST OF 
THE SEPTEMBER MENUS 

Substitute oleomargarine for butter in cooking. Use 
top of milk in place of cream for cereal and cofifee. In cook- 
ing with milk reduce by adding half water, or use skimmed 
milk at 5 cents per quart. 

In Lesson i, omit the soft cooked eggs and in Lesson 3 
use ground round steak broiled in place of sirloin. In 
Lesson 4 omit the cantaloupe and in Lesson 6 use 2 pounds 
veal chops in place of 4 pounds veal roast. In Lesson 7 
omit the cereal, and in Lesson 9 use plain cooked peas 
instead of creamed. In Lesson 11 use tea instead of milk, 
and in Lesson 12 use clear tomato soup instead of cream 
of tomato. In Lesson 32 use boiled beef patties, grinding 
round steak for this and forming into patties, instead of 
veal cutlets, and in Lesson 20 use cucumber salad instead 
of fruit salad. 

ESTIMATED REDUCTIONS 

1 lb. Butter at 32c, less 1 Ci-eamed Peas at 12e, less 

lb. Oleo at 20c $ .12 Plain Peas at 8c 04 

2 pts. Cream 40 1 qt. Milk at 8c, less tea at 

9 pts. Milk 36 Ic 07 

4 Eggs 07 Cream of Tomato Soup at 

2 lbs. Sirloin Steak at 40c, 15c, less Clear Tomato 

less iy2 lbs. Ground Soup at 10c 05 

Eound at 27c 13 Veal Cutlets at 30c, less 

2 Cantaloupes 10 Round Steak at 18c 12 

4 lbs. Veal Roast at 64c, less Fruit Salad at 12c, less 

2 lbs. Veal Chops at 36c. .28 Cucumber Salad at 4c... .08 

Corn Flakes, Cream and 

Sugar 05 $1.87 

Original Total Cost $8.00 

Reduction Cost 1-87 

Total Cost per Week $6.13 

New Cost per Day 875 

New Cost per Day pei Person 22 



OCTOBER MENUS 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

PART II 

WAITING ON TABLE 
General Rule 

Convenience, ease and grace should govern every action 
in serving. This rule should apply to the setting of the 
table, taking each point into consideration in the placing of 
every article, as well as in the serving. 

With a Maid 

1. A tray should be used in serving food and removing 
dishes,. with the exception of platters and large dishes. 

2. Place dishes before the guests from the right. 

3. Pass all dishes from which food is to be taken at 
the left. 

4. Remove the dishes from the right, when convenient. 

5. Fill water glasses as they stand in place, if possible. 
If not, pick up the glass with the left hand, fill and replace. 

6. Everything pertaining to one course should be re- 
moved before serving the next. 

7. Remove in the following order: 

1. All dishes containing food, meat platter, vege- 

table dishes, etc. In removing the platter, 
lay the carving knife and fork on the platter 
and remove with both hands. 

2. Soiled dishes, taking the entire service from 

each person at one time. 

3. Clean dishes that are not to be used in the 

following courses. 

Copyright 1911, by 41 

Home Economics Association 



42 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Remove the crumbs before serving the dessert. For this 
use a scraper and tray when a tablecloth is used or napkin 
and plate when meal is served from the polished table. 

Serve finger bowls whenever required, i. e., after fruit 
course for breakfast, after the meat course if vegetables 
such as corn on the cob is served and corn holders are not 
provided, and at the end of the meal. 

Without a Maid 

1. Place a double-decker service table or wheel tray near 
the dining table. 

2. Have everything possible in reserve on the service 
table. Even many of the dishes to be served hot may be 
kept there standing in hot water. 

3. Soiled dishes from one course may be removed and 
set on the lower shelf of the service table if desired. 

4. Make the service as simple as possible, planning in 
every way to avoid leaving the table and interruption of 
the meal. 

5. Finger bowls may be put on the table and left there 
for use during the entire meal. 

6. Serve as much of the food as possible at the table. 
Individual service — that is, preparing in single portions — 
is very attractive, but requires more work. 

7. For a small family it is often advisable to serve the 
entire meal from the kitchen, serving portions suited to each 
individual. This lessens dishwashing, because no serving 
dishes are needed. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

Hereafter in "Lessons in Cooking" the following abbreviations 
will be used: 

t teaspoon. m minute. 

T tablespoon. h hour. 

c cup. L lesson. 



OCTOBER MENUS 

Monday Lesson 22 

BREAKFAST 

LIVER BROILED WITH BACON 
MUFFINS COFFEE 

Liver, Broiled with Bacon 

Have bacon cut in thin shces, put into a cold pan and 
heat slowly, turning often. When golden brown, remove 
to a hot plate. Parboil for 5 m slices of liver ^-inch thick, 
drain and brown in the bacon fat ; season with salt and 
pepper and place in the center of the plate, arranging the 
bacon around the edge. 

For Muffins see Lesson 4. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the muffins ; while baking make the coffee and 
prepare the liver and bacon. While the liver is parboiling, 
broil the bacon. Finish cooking the liver and serve the 
breakfast. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Monday Lesson 23 

CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP CROUTONS 

BREAD AND BUTTER ORANGE MARMALADE 

COCOA 

Cream of Barley Soup 

Wash thoroughly Yz cup pearl barley; throw it into I 
quart boiling water, boil rapidly for 10 m, then drain. Put 
into the double-boiler with i quart of milk. Cover and cook 
slowly for ^ h. While this is cooking cut i small onion 
into slices and put in the frying, pan with i T butter. Cook 
slowly and when the onion is perfectly tender, but not 
brown, add 2 stalks of celery cut into small pieces, and a 
bit of bayleaf. When the barley is transparent all the way 
through add the mixture from the frying pan, i T butter, 
I t salt, and a dash of pepper. Press through a vegetable 
sieve, reheat and serve. 

For Croutons see Lesson 2. 

For Cocoa see Lesson 2. 

43 



44 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

Start barley cooking an hour before lunch time. Allow 
20 m for the cooking of the onion in the butter. Make the 
croutons and cocoa and finish the soup. Serve with the 
croutons, then the cocoa, beating well before serving. 

DINNER 

Lesson 24 

SCALLOPED CODFISH AND RICE 

STEWED TOMATOES APPLE SALAD 

KRUMMEL TORTA 

Scalloped Codfish and Rice 

Blanch % cup rice by covering with 2 c cold water ; put 
over the fire, stirring occasionally while heating to prevent 
its sticking; boil 5 m, drain on a sieve and rinse with cold 
water. The rice is now beautifully white and clear and the 
grains do not adhere. Return to the fire in a double boiler, 
add 134 c milk, and i c salt codfish, previously soaked over 
night. Cook until the rice is nearly done and the milk ab- 
sorbed. Put in a baking dish in several layers, cover with 
y2 c medium white sauce. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs, 
place in the oven and bake about 20 m, or until well heated 
throughout and browned on top. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Empty the contents of i can of tomatoes into a granite or 
aluminum saucepan and heat slowly, adding i t salt, 2 T 
sugar and a dash of pepper. Mix 2 T flour with 2 T butter, 
add to the tomatoes in the pan. Mix thoroughly, boil a few 
minutes and serve. 

Apple Salad 

Dice 3 well flavored apples, add }4 c celery cut into 
3/^ -inch lengths, and >4 c nutmeats. Cover with Boiled 
Salad Dressing (L. 15) and serve cold on a bed of lettuce. 
Krummel Torta 

Beat 2 eggs until light, add i c sugar, 3^ c breadcrumbs, 
I c chopped dates, i c chopped nuts, and i t baking powder. 
Mix well together, put into a shallow pan, and bake ^ h in 
a slow oven. Serve either plain or with plain or whipped 
cream. Cut in squares to serve. 



OCTOBER MENUS 45 

Preparing the Meal 

About I h before dinner time blanch the rice and start it 
to cooking with the codfish. 

Light the oven burners and make the Krummel Torta. 
By this time the rice and fish are ready to be scalloped. 
When that is done prepare the tomatoes and heat. 

Pare and dice the apples and add to the chopped nuts 
and celery. Cover with the Salad Dressing (L. 15) which 
should have been made previously, and serve on the lettuce 
leaves on salad plates. Set in a cool place until ready to use. 

Serve the dinner. Keep the Krummel Torta hot in the 
oven until time to serve. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 25 

OATMEAL — CREAM AND SUGAR 

BAKING POWDER CINNAMON ROLLS 

COFFEE 

Cinnamon Rolls 

Make the same as Baking Powder Biscuits (L. 17), 
using 2 c flour, 4 t baking powder, >^ t salt, >< T butter, 
ly2 T lard, ^ c milk. Instead of cutting into biscuits, 
roll the dough out into a sheet about 3^ inch thick and 
spread with a mixture made of 34 c butter creamed with 
^2 c sugar and 4 t cinnamon. Then roll the dough like 
a jelly roll, pressing the ends together, to keep sugar 
mixture in, and cut into slices yi inch thick. Place in a 
baking pan and bake 12 m in a hot oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the cereal to cooking. Heat the water for coffee. 
Light oven burners. Get out materials, make the cinnamon 
rolls and place in the oven. While baking make the coffee. 

When all is ready, serve the cereal, then the rolls and 
coffee. 

Keep rolls hot according to directions in Lesson 4. 

Immediately after breakfast, while washing the dishes, 
cook the macaroni and the 3 eggs for the salad required 
for luncheon. Make Cup Cakes for luncheon if convenient. 



46 LESSONS IN COOKING 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 26 

MACARONI SALAD BREAD AND BUTTER 

CUP CAKES TEA 

Macaroni Salad 

Break the contents of 3^-pound package macaroni into 
pieces 3^ inch long. Boil about 20 m, or until tender. Pour 
into a sieve, rinse with cold water, and put into a mixing 
bowl. Cook 3 eggs until hard, according to directions given 
in Lesson i. When cold, slice and add to macaroni. Add 
3^ c celery cut into short pieces. Cover with Salad Dress- 
ing (L. 15) and serve very cold. 
Cup Cakes 

Cream Yz c butter, add i c sugar and mix until well 
creamed together. Add the yolk of i egg and beat well. 
Mix and sift 2 c flour and 2 level t baking powder. Add 
to the cake alternately with i c milk. Mix and beat well, 
then cut and fold in the stiffly beaten white of i egg, and i 
t vanilla. Bake in greased muffin rings 30 m in a moderate 
oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

Heat the water for tea about 5 m before lunch time, then 
make the salad, the eggs and macaroni having been cooked. 
Make the tea and serve the lunch. The cup cakes may be 
made immediately after breakfast or before this meal. 

DINNER 
Tuesday Lesson 27 

flank steak STUFFED AND BAKED 

CREAMED POTATOES CHILI SAUCE 

PEACH SHORTCAKE 

Flank-Steak Stuffed and Baked 

Wipe the steak clean with a damp cloth; carefully re- 
move the skin and fat and lay it flat on a board ; moisten 
^ c crumbs with stock or hot water, add i t salt, ^4 t 
pepper, 5^ onion chopped fine, and i T chopped parsley. 
Spread this mixture on the meat evenly, then roll with the 
grain so that when sliced it will be cut across the grain, tie 
with twine, turning in the ends to make it even and shapely. 



OCTOBER MENUS 47 

Dice an onion, cairot and turnip and lay them in the bak- 
ing pan; on top of them lay the roll of meat, pouring in 
enough stock or water to fill the pan to the depth of i inch ; 
cover and place in a slow oven to cook at least 3 h, longer 
if possible. 

When cooked, remove the meat and thicken the broth 
with flour, using 2 T to a cup of liquor. 

Peach Shortcake 

For Shortcake follow directions given in Lesson 10 for 
baking powder biscuits. Instead of cutting the dough into 
biscuits, roll it out into 2 sheets of equal size, about ^ inch 
thick. Spread one side of each sheet with butter and put 
the buttered sides together in baking. Bake in a hot oven 
12 or 15 m. When done, split the two sheets apart, cover 
the lower layer with peaches, previously sliced and sweet- 
ened ; replace the top layer, cover with peaches, cut into 
squares and serve. 

When fresh peaches are not available canned or evapo- 
rated peaches may be substituted. 

For Creamed Potatoes see Lesson 12. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the meat 3 h before dinner time. Wash, pare 
and dice the potatoes, and cook about 15 m before dinner, 
or until tender. Cold boiled or baked potatoes may be util- 
ized for creamed potatoes. Make the shortcake and while 
it is baking make the cream sauce for the potatoes. 

Increase the heat of the oven while the shortcake is 
baking. 

Take the meat from the oven, place on a hot platter, 
cutting and removing, the cords before serving. Put the 
vegetables around the edge of the platter and pour the thick- 
ened broth over all. 

Keep shortcake hot in the oven while serving the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 28 

FARINA WITH STEWED PRUNES 
MILK TOAST COFFEE 



48 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Milk Toast 

Toast slices of bread, cut about 3^ inch thick; when 
brown cut diagonally across both ways. 

Heat 2 c milk, add 3^ t salt, dash of pepper, and 2 T but- 
ter. Arrange the toast in a hot vegetable dish and cover 
with the hot milk. Serve at once. 

For Farina see Lesson 4 ; for Stewed Prunes Lesson 7. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the cereal to cooking, and heat the water for cof- 
fee. Heat the milk for toast in a double boiler. Grind and 
make the coffee. Toast the bread, add the salt, pepper and 
butter to the milk, and keep both hot until needed. 

Serve the cereal with the prunes, which should have been 
cooked the preceding day, then the coffee and the milk 
toast. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 29 

OATMEAL TIMBALE WITH CREAM SAUCE 

BREAD AND BUTTER CURRANT JELLY 

TEA 

Oatmeal Timbale with Cream Sauce 

Pour leftover oatmeal into timbale or custard cups ; when 
cold, turn them out, scoop out the centers, leaving a wall 
^ inch thick, mix a little cold chopped meat — the meat and 
stuffing left from the flank of Tuesday's dinner — with the 
oatmeal ; moisten with gravy or water, refill the centers and 
place them in a hot oven until thoroughly hot. Serve with 
I c medium Cream Sauce (p. 38). Other leftover break- 
fast foods may be used in the same way. 

Preparing the Meal 

The timbales should be molded the day before from the 
leftover oatmeal. Prepare and add the meat ^ h before 
lunch. While baking make the Cream Sauce and tea. Serve 
the lunch. 



OCTOBER MENUS 49 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 30 

BAKED HAM 

MASHED POTATOES CABBAGE AU GRATIN 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

Baked Ham 

Wipe the ham or piece of ham with a damp cloth, put in 
a kettle and parboil, allowing lo m to each pound. Drain, 
remove to a roasting pan, rub over the entire surface with 
brown sugar and then stick cloves in all over it. Put in 
the oven and bake until tender. This will require about 20 
ni per pound. 
Cabbage au Gratin 

Wash, chop and soak a small head of cabbage in cold 
water for 15 m; put into boiling salted water and boil slowly 
for 5 m, drain. While this is boiling make a Cream Sauce 
from I T butter, i T flour, i t salt, a dash of pepper, and 
I c milk ; add 4 T chopped or grated cheese ; take from the 
fire and add the yolks of 2 hard cooked eggs pressed through 
a sieve. Chop the whites very fine and add them also. 
Put a layer of this in the baking dish, then a layer of cab- 
bage, having the last layer sauce. Cover with bread crumbs 
and bake in a quick oven 20 m. 
Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Soak I c bread crumbs in 2 c milk. Add ys c sugar, }i 
t salt, and the yolk of i egg. 

Melt a T -ounce square of chocolate over hot water, add 
enough milk to make of the consistency to pour, about 4 T 
and add to the bread mixture. Beat the white of the egg 
until stiff and fold into the pudding. Add i t vanilla. Pour 
into a buttered baking dish, set in a pan of water, and bake 
in a moderate oven about 20 m or until firm. 

For Mashed Potatoes see Lesson 3. 

Preparing the Meal 

For a 3-pound piece of ham start the parboiling about i>^ 
h before dinner time. When the ham is in the oven, cook 
the potatoes and cabbage. The bread crumbs for the pud- 
ding can be put to soak at any time. 

The 2 eggs for the cabbage may be cooked with the ham 
while it is parboiling. 



50 LESSONS IK COOKING 

Prepare the cabbage for 'making; finish the pudding and 
let bake while the dinner is being served. 

Drain and mash the potatoes, then serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 31 

CORNFLAKES CREAM AND SUGAR 

CHEESE FONDUE ON TOAST COFFEE 

Cheese Fondue 

Cover I c bread broken into small pieces with i c milk ; 
add ^ c cheese either grated or cut into small pieces, i T 
melted butter and ^ t salt. Cook in a double boiler until 
cheese is melted, then add i egg, beaten slightly and heated 
gradually by pouring some of the hot mixture on it. Cook 
5 m longer and serve on toast. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the coffee. Heat crumbs and milk in a double 
boiler, and have ready all the other ingredients for the 
fondue. Prepare the toast and heat the plates. Finish 
the fondue. Serve the cereal, then the cheese fondue on 
toast. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 32 

POTATO TIMBALES EN SURPRISE 

BISCUITS QUINCE PRESERVES 

TEA 

Potato Timbales en Surprise 

Beat 2 eggs without separating until light ; add 3 T cream 
and 13^ c mashed potato left from the evening before. Sea- 
son with ^ t salt, a dash pepper, i t onion juice, and a grat- 
ing of nutmeg. Press the whole mixture through a sieve. 

Line the bottoms of timbale molds or custard cups with 
greased paper ; half fill them with the potato mixture ; add 
I t of chopped baked ham, and complete the filling of the 
mold with potato. 

Stand the molds in a pan of hot water and cook in 
the oven 20 m. When done, loosen the sides with a sharp 
knife and turn out carefully on a heated dish. 

For Biscuits see Lesson 10, page 24. 



OCTOBEB MENUS 51 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the timbales and place in the oven ; then make 
the biscuits. While baking make the grape-nut pudding 
■for dinner so that it will be cold at night. After pudding 
is in the oven prepare the table for lunch. Serve the meal. 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 33 

BROWN STEW OF BEEF 

BOILED POTATOES DUMPLINGS 

CABBAGE AND NUT SALAD 

GRAPE-NUT PUDDING 

Brown Stew of Beef 

Remove all fat, bone, skin and gristle from i pound of 
round steak or stewing meat and cut into i-inch squares. 
Try out the fat and in it brown y^ onion chopped fine. 
Sprinkle 3 T flour over the meat and add to the fat and 
onion. When the meat is well browned, add i pint boil- 
ing water. Lower the heat and cook i h below the boiling 
point. Add the dumplings 15 m before the stew is done. 
Dumplings 

Sift 2 c flour with 4 t baking powder and 3^ t salt into 
a mixing bowl. Add about ^ c milk or enough to make 
a soft dough. Drop by spoonfuls all over the top of the 
stew; cover closely and cook for 15 m. 
Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes and cook with the meat. 
Grape-nut Pudding 

Soak }4 c grape nuts 3^ h or longer in hot water to cover. 
Beat 2 eggs and ^ c sugar together until light, then add 2 
c cold milk. Add softened grape nuts, ^ t salt, and % t 
grated nutmeg. Pour into a baking dish and bake until firm 
in a slow oven. This will require about 25 m if baked in 
individual molds, and about double that time if baked in a 
large one. Serve cold with or without cream. 

For Cabbage and Nut Salad see Lesson 15. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the meat for the stew about i^ h before dinner 
time. Wash and pare the potatoes and add to the stew. 



52 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Make the cabbage salad and put in a cool place until ready 
fco serve. 

Make the dumplings, add to the stew, cover tightly, in- 
crease the heat and cook 15 m. 

The pudding, which was prepared at noon, may now be 
turned out on the serving dishes. 

When everything is ready, lay the dumplings around the 
edge of a platter, fill the center with stew and potatoes. 
Serve at once. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 34 

ORANGES 

BROWNED HASH CATSUP 

BUTTERED TOAST COFFEE 

Brov^ned Hash 

Put meat and potatoes left from dinner the preceding eve- 
ning through the meat grinder ; moisten with gravy. Put 
into a hot buttered frying pan and when well browned, turn 
one-half over the other like an omelet and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Heat water for coffee. Make the hash. While browning 
make the toast and coffee. Keep hot. 

Serve the oranges, then the hash, toast and coffee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 35 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

BREAD AND BUTTER COTTAGE CHEESE 

TEA 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Drain the Hquid from a can of tomatoes and reserve. 
Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer of the solid 
tomatoes. Over this sprinkle salt and pepper and dots of 
butter, using about i T butter for each layer. Cover with a 
layer of cracker or bread crumbs, then another layer of to- 
matoes, and so on until the tomatoes have all been used, 
having buttered crumbs on the top. Bake 20 m in a hot 
oven. 



OCTOBER MENUS 53 

Cottage Cheese 

Heat thick sour milk over hot water until the curd and 
whey separate. This is accomplished at a low temperature, 
and for tender cheese the temperature should not go over 
ioo° F. 

Pour into a sieve, rinse if desired until all sour taste is 
removed, and let stand several hours, or until all the whey 
has drained ofif. Add salt, pepper and melted butter, form 
into balls and serve cold. 

Preparing the Meal 

Twenty minutes before lunch time prepare the scalloped 
tomatoes. While baking mold the cottage cheese, which 
should have been made in the morning, or even the preceding 
day, into balls and arrange on lettuce leaves. Make the tea 
and serve the meal. 

While preparing this meal make the blackberry sponge for 
dinner. 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 36 

TOMATO BOUILLON — CROUTONS 

FINNAN-HADDIE A LA DELMONICO 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED PARSNIPS 

BLACKBERRY SPONGE 

Tomato Bouillon 

To I pint of tomatoes, or if desired, tomato juice only, add 
15^ pints plain soup stock, 3^ T chopped onion, ^ bayleaf, 
3 cloves and yi t celery seed. Mix well together, boil 20 m, 
strain and serve. 

Bouillon cubes may be used instead of stock if the latter 
is not available, using 4 cubes to i quart of hot water. Or 
beef extract may be used in the proportion of 4 t to i quart 
of hot water. Directions for making stock will be given 
later. 
Finnan-Haddie a la Delmonico 

Wash I pound of fish thoroughly ; then soak ^ h in cold 
water; drain, cover with water just below the boiling point 
and let stand 15 m; drain and wipe dry. Remove the skin 
and bones and separate into flakes. Put the flaked fish into 
a buttered serving dish, pour over it Thin White Sauce 



54 LESSONS IN COOKING 

(p. 38) equal in quantity to the fish, about 2 c, cover with 
buttered crumbs, and bake in a hot oven long enough to 
brown the crumbs and to thoroughly heat the fish. 
Browned Parsnips 

Scrape, halve and boil 4 good-sized parsnips. When ten- 
der, drain and heat in a skillet with 2 T butter until golden 
brown in color. 
Blackberry Sponge 

Fill an earthen bowl closely with 2 c of small cubes of 
bread. Pour over the bread hot blackberry juice until the 
bread has absorbed all it will. Set the sponge aside in a 
cool place for several hours. When ready to use, turn from 
the bowl and serve with cooked blackberries, sugar and 
cream. Other fruits may be used with this dessert, accord- 
ing to one's taste and convenience. 

Preparing the Meal 

Wash the fish and put it to soak in cold water i h before 
dinner time; make the White Sauce (p. 38) for the fish, 
which should then be flaked. Arrange the fish in a baking 
dish and cover with the White Sauce. 

Combine the tomato juice and stock and heat. 

Make the Croutons. 

Drain parsnips from the boiling water and brown in but- 
ter. While cooking, drain potatoes, reserving half for the 
next day's dinner; mash the other half and keep hot until 
needed. 

Serve the soup with the croutons, then the rest of the 
dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 37 

RALSTON BREAKFAST FOOD 

FISH CAKES BUTTERED TOAST 

COFFEE 

Fish Cakes 

Mix remnants of the Finnan-Haddie with Mashed Po- 
tatoes left from the evening before ; add i egg well beaten, 
shape into cakes, and saute in 2 T butter. 

For Ralston Breakfast Food follow directions for 
Cream of Wheat given in Lesson 4. 



OCTOBEB MENUS 55 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the cereal to cooking. Prepare the fish cakes and 
while sauteing make the coffee and toast the hread. Serve 
the cereal and then the rest of the breakfast. 

Saturday Morning Baking 

The following dishes for Saturday and Sunday meals 
should be prepared in the order given. 

Coffee Cake 

To I c scalded milk add }i c butter, or butter and lard, 
}4 c sugar, and ^ t salt. When lukewarm, add ^ yeast 
cake dissolved in 34 c lukewarm water, i egg well beaten, 
flour enough to make a stiff batter and ^ c raisins, scalded 
and cut into small pieces. Cover, let rise over night ; in the 
morning work down well by stirring with a wooden spoon. 
Turn out onto a floured board, pat or roll into a sheet about 
^ inch thick, put into a shallow pan, brush over with beaten 
egg and spread with a mixture made of 3 T melted butter, 
Ys c sugar, and i t cinnamon. When the sugar is partially 
melted, sift on 3 T flour. 

Place the Coffee Cake in a warm place until double in 
bulk, then bake ^ h or longer, until done. 

If desired, this process may be started in the morning, 
but in this case i whole yeast cake must be used. Then 
proceed as above. 

Cheese Crumpets 

Scald 2 c milk in a double boiler ; to J4 c melted butter 
add 54 c cornstarch, % c flour and ^ t salt; mix well and 
add to scalded milk. Cook 5 m, stirring constantly. Add 
the yolks of 2 eggs slightly beaten and ^ c cheese, cut into 
small pieces. When the cheese is melted, pour into a buttered 
shallow pan and cool. Turn onto a board, cut into squares, 
place on a pan, sprinkle with % c grated cheese and brown 
in the oven. Serve on crackers. 

Drop Cakes 

Cream ^ c butter, add i c sugar ; mix well, add the yolks 
of 2 eggs and when well beaten into the sugar, add i^ c 
flour, sifted with 3 t baking powder, alternately with y^ c 



56 LESSONS IN COOKING 

milk. Lastly cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the 
2 eggs and i t vanilla. 

Drop from a spoon into greased muffin rings and bake 
about 15 m in a moderate oven. Frost if desired. 
Caramel Custard 

Heat I quart of milk in a double boiler ; while this is heat- 
ing, caramelize ^ c sugar by boiling with j4 c water until 
golden brown in color. Then pour slozvly into the hot milk, 
stir and cook until thoroughly dissolved. The high tempera- 
ture of the syrup will raise that of the heated milk, causing 
violent boiling. Hence, care is necessary in combining the 
two. Now proceed according to directions given in Lesson 
12 for Baked Custard, using 4 eggs, >4 t salt, but no sugar. 
Nut Blanc Mange 

See Lesson 15, adding i c finely chopped nut meats just 
before molding. English walnuts, pecans, almonds, etc., are 
all good. 
Apple Sauce 

Pare, quarter and core 6 tart, juicy apples; add yi c wa- 
ter and cook until tender, having a hot fire so that the ap- 
ples may be cooked quickly. Add a few grains of salt, 
sweeten to taste and cook enough longer to dissolve the 
sugar. 

Chocolate Sauce, see Lesson 6. 
Salad Dressing, see Lesson 15. 

Method of Work 

Immediately after breakfast, work down the Coffee Cake 
if started the preceding evening, arrange in the pans with 
the sugar mixture and stand in a warm place to rise. If 
not already started, make the sponge with a whole yeast 
cake and set away in a warm place for the first rising. It 
should be kept especially warm, between 80° and 90° 
F, if started in the morning. 

While the Coffee Cake is rising, which will take between 
I and 2 h, according to the time of starting the dough, make 
the Cheese Crumpets and set aside to cool. 

Start the sugar to caramelizing and the milk to heating 
for the Custard and Blanc Mange, and then make the Drop 
Cakes. Place in the oven and finish the Custard, reserving 



OCTOBEE MENUS 57 

some of the milk for the Blanc Mange. By this time the 
Coffee Cake, if started by the long process, is ready to be 
baked. Also the Custard, set in a pan of water, may be 
put into the oven, if there is room. If not, let it wait until 
the cakes are done. 

Now finish the Blanc Mange and while it is cooking make 
the Apple Sauce. When finished, make the Chocolate Sauce 
and, if necessary, a supply of Salad Dressing. 

The Coffee Cake, if started by the short process, should 
now be baked. It should be worked down and put in the 
pans after making the Drop Cakes and before making the 
Custard. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 38 

CHEESE CRUMPETS — CRACKERS 
BREAD AND BUTTER TEA 

Cheese Crumpets 

See Lesson 37, under Saturday Morning Baking. 

Preparing the Meal 

Ten minutes before lunch time, turn the crumpets out of 
the mold, cut, sprinkle with ^ c grated cheese, place in the 
oven and brown. 

Make the tea and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 39 

HAMBURG CAKES 

SMOTHERED POTATOES STEWED CORN 

BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD 

Hamburg Cakes 

Have the butcher grind i pound of round steak twice, or 
put it through the meat grinder at home. The second grind- 
ing thoroughly cuts up all the larger pieces that escaped the 
first. 

Mix y2 c stale bread crumbs with ^ to ^ c milk, accord- 
ing to the dryness of the bread. Add ^ t salt, i egg well 
beaten and the ground meat. Also if desired 5^ onion 
chopped fine may be added. Mix well, shape into cakes, 
about y2 inch thick, and pan broil in a hot frying pan. 



58 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Smothered Potatoes 

In 34 c butter or beef fat, cook ^4 c chopped onion, pars- 
ley and celery mixed. When beginning to brown, add 2 c 
cold boiled potatoes cut into dice or slices. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and add ^ c White Sauce, Meat Gravy or 
Tomato Sauce. 

Cover till well steamed through, uncover and let any sur- 
plus moisture evaporate and serve hot. 
Stewed Corn 

Empty the contents of i can corn into a saucepan, add 
^2 t salt, a dash of pepper and i T butter. Heat thoroughly 
and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Twenty minutes before dinner time prepare the meat, using 
instead of one whole egg the two whites left from the cheese 
crumpets. Make >2 c White Sauce (p. 38). While this is 
cooking, cut the potatoes into dice after putting the chopped 
onion, etc., into the melted fat to brown. When beginning 
to brown, add the potatoes and white sauce, cover and let 
steam. 

Season and heat the corn. 

Broil the Hamburg Cakes according to directions given 
in Lesson 3 for pan broiling. When done serve the dinner. 

Serve the Caramel Custard, which should have been 
made in the morning, very cold. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 40 

grapefruit 

poached eggs — CREOLE STYLE 
COFFEE CAKE COFFEE 

Grapefruit 

Cut the grapefruit in halves, crosswise. Half a grapefruit 
is one service. Remove all the seeds. Insert a sharp pointed 
knife between the outside skin or shell and the pulp and cut 
all around the inside. Now cut the skin away from the sides 
of each section of pulp, insert the knife under the core and 
cut free from shell, then lift out the core and membranes in 
one, thus leaving the pulp only. 

Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve very cold. 



OCTOBER MENUS 59 

Poached Eggs — Creole Style 

Stew I can of tomatoes and i green pepper, shredded, un- 
til reduced to half; pour onto a hot platter and arrange on 
top of it 4 rounds of toast ; on each piece of toast place an 
Qgg poached according to directions given in Lesson i6. 

Melt and brown 2 T butter, add i T lemon juice or vine- 
gar and when the liquid boils, pour over the eggs. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the grapefruit the preceding evening and put in 
a cold place until ready to serve. 

Stew the tomatoes and green pepper. Make the coffee, 
then the toast. Remove the tomatoes from the fire, arrange 
on a platter with the toast and keep hot until needed. 

Serve the grapefruit ; then poach the eggs and while cook- 
ing prepare the vinegar sauce. Arrange the eggs on the 
toast and serve at once with the coffee cake and coffee. 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 41 

ROAST PORK APPLE SAUCE 

BROWNED POTATOES GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

PORCUPINE SALAD 

NUT BLANC MANGE — CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Roast Pork 

Wipe the roast with a damp cloth, place in a dripping 
pan, dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and place in a slow 
oven to roast. Baste every 10 m until done. Contrary to 
the general rule for roasting meats, pork is put into a slow 
oven so that the heat may have an opportunity to penetrate 
to the very inmost center. Pork should be cooked about 25 
m to the pound. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Wash, pare and parboil 4 good-sized sweet potatoes. 
Drain, cut into lengthwise slices about ^ inch thick and lay 
in a baking dish. Spread thickly with a syrup made from 
%. c butter, ^ c brown or maple sugar and }i c hot water. 
Bake until tender, basting frequently with the syrup in the 
pan. 



60 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Porcupine Salad 

Dip the halves of either fresh or preserved peaches or 
pears into thick Salad Dressing. Lay on lettuce leaves and 
stick in blanched or shredded almonds in rows lengthwise. 

For Browned Potatoes see Lesson 20. 

For Nut Blanc Mange see Lesson 15, adding i c finely 
chopped nut meats just before molding. For Chocolate 
Sauce see Lesson 6. 

Preparing the Meal 

Allow i^ h for the roast. Wash and pare 6 medium- 
sized potatoes and put in the pan with the roast. 

Parboil the sweet potatoes for 10 m. Drain and prepare 
for the oven, allowing about 3^ h for them to bake. 

Make the salad, if it has not already been prepared earlier 
in the morning, and arrange on plates for serving. 

The Apple Sauce for the roast, also the Blanc Mange 
and Chocolate Sauce should have been made on Saturday. 

Serve the dinner. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 42 

cheese and pimento sandwiches 
drop cakes cocoa 

Cheese and Pimento Sandwiches 

Use the Cottage Cheese left from Friday's lunch; mix 
with an equal proportion of chopped pimentoes and olives. 
Cut bread thin, butter one slice, and spread the other with 
the cheese filling and lay together. 

For Cocoa see Lesson 2. For Drop Cakes see page 55. 

Preparing the Meal 

The sandwiches may be prepared early and wrapped in 
oiled paper or a damp napkin. 

The cocoa also may be cooked and allowed to stand un- 
til ready to use, the milk added, heated and beaten. 

Put the drop cakes on a plate and serve the supper. 



OCTOBER MENUS 61 

HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS 
Nutmeg as a Flavoring 

A dash of nutmeg added to creamed toast improves it 
greatly. It also gives to vegetables, such as beans, peas, 
potatoes, rice, etc., a very delicate flavor. To roast veal and 
lamb it gives a delicious flavor obtained in no other way. 
Cottage Cheese 

A pleasing variety can be obtained by serving cottage 
cheese in diiTerent ways. Seasoning with salt and pepper 
and softening with cream is the usual method. Instead of 
the cream add enough melted butter to soften and hold to- 
gether, so that it may be rolled into balls. Sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and serve. Or roll them in breadcrumbs, 
brown in butter and serve hot. Or serve as a cheese tart 
in pastry shell with cream and sugar. 
Whipped Cream with Soup 

All cream soups are very delicious served with whipped 
cream. Put i t cream in the bottom of the bowl and pour 
the hot soup on it. 
Grapefruit 

When grapefruit is prepared and allowed to stand over 
night the bitter taste develops. If this is undesirable, pre- 
pare shortly before using. 

Sweetening with honey instead of sugar gives a very de- 
licious flavor to grapefruit. All kinds of preserved small 
fruits, maple syrup and fresh crushed fruits may also be 
used in grapefruit. 
Nuts 

The housewife with foresight will have on hand jars of 
nuts ready to use for -salaJs, desserts, etc. English walnuts, 
pecans, and other nuts, when shelled should be kept in two 
jars, the whole perfect pieces in one and the broken in an- 
other. If nuts are bought shelled they should be scalded 
and dried in the oven, because they are not shelled in sani- 
tary surroundings. 

Almonds should be blanched by pouring boiling water on 
them. Allow them to stand about 5 m, drain from the wa- 
ter and slip off the brown skin. Dry thoroughly and keep in 
jars. 



62 LESSONS IN COOKING 

To shred almonds, lay flat on the table and cut lengthwise. 
These shredded almonds, browned but not salted, are a great 
addition to many desserts, both in appearance and taste. 
Salad Dressing 

Salad Dressing made up in quantity without milk will 
keep indefinitely. Make very thick, using only the vinegar 
or the lemon juice; put in glass jars. Take out the quantity 
desired, dilute with sweet or sour milk or cream, whipped 
cream or unsweetened evaporated milk. 
Cream Soups 

The foundation for all cream soups is the thin white 
sauce. To this is added the pulp of different kinds of vege- 
tables, such as potatoes, tomatoes, peas, beans, celery, pump- 
kin, lettuce, onion, etc., and such cereals as barley, rice and 
sago. 

A general proportion that can always be used is i quart 
liquid, I pint vegetable pulp and 2 T flour. The amount of 
butter should vary according to the richness desired. 
Scalloped Dishes 

Scalloped dishes are prepared by baking in the oven with 
a top layer of buttered crumbs. The foundation of a scal- 
loped dish may be fish, meat, vegetables, macaroni, etc., with 
generally a sauce or gravy poured over and the top covered 
with crumbs. 

Tomatoes or any soft vegetables are prepared without the 
sauce, and some crumbs are generally mixed throughout the 
dish. 

Scalloped dishes are served in the dish in which they 
are baked. 
Bread Crumbs 

Bread crumbs should be prepared and kept in jars ready 
for use. Dry all pieces of bread, crusts, etc., by keeping in 
open jars or receptacles set in a warm dry place. When 
thoroughly dried, roll fine or put through a meat grinder 
and keep in glass jars. 

The bread may be dried in the oven at a low temperature 
and ground when desired for immediate use. 
Buttered Crumbs 

Buttered crumbs are prepared by melting butter and mix- 
ing the crumbs with it in the proportion of about i T butter 
to 4 T crumbs. 



OCTOBEE MENUS 



63 



MONDAY 

Wt. Gms. Gms. Gms. 

Food Materials — in oz. Cost. Protein. Fat. Carho. 

Liver 2.6 $0.0162 15.96 2.45 1.98 

Bacon 4 .0032 1.05 7.12 0.00 

Muffins 2.08 .0118 4.69 10.35 19.75 

Butter 5 .0087 .14 11.98 0.00 

Coffee 25 .0015 0.00 0.00 0.00 

Cream for Coffee .0078 .38 3.83 0.00 

Cr. of Barley Soup 5.00 .0135 5.57 7.17 18.89 

Croutons 75 .0025 1.91 .25 10.88 

Bread 2.25 .0075 5.73 .75 32.64 

Butter 25 .0043 .07 5.99 0.00 

Cocoa 8.00 .0265 9.53 11.71 18.94 

Orange Marmalade 3.60 .0090 0.00 0.00 75.78 

Codfish 1.60 .0150 8.55 .18 0.00 

Kice 1.00 .0056 2.26 .08 22.39 

Cream Sauce 3.00 .0095 2.64 8.72 6.52 

Butter 25 .0043 .07 5.99 0.00 

Stewed Tomatoes 4.40 .0122 1.37 3.49 6.67 

Apple Salad 7.75 .0323 10.18 15.58 25.52' 

Celery for Salad 1.5 .0050 .38 .04 1.10 

Bread 1.50 .0050 3.82 .49 21.75 

Butter 50 .0087 .14 11.98 0.00 

Krummel Torta 4.12 .0336 6.92 12.70 62.38 

51.30 10.2437 61.36 120.85 325.19 

1 gram either protein or carhoh ydrate (starch, sugar, etc.) yields J^.l 
food units or calories. 

1 gram fat yields 9.3 food units or calories. 

61.36 gms. Protein. 120.85 gms. Fat X 9.3 = 1124 Calories 

325.19 gms. Carbohydrate. Protein and Carbo. = 1585 Calories 

386.55 gms. X 4.1 = 1585 Calories. Total 2809 Calories 

Therefore these meals yield 2809 calories at a cost of $0.24 per day 
per person. 



64 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



TUECDAY 



wt. 

Food Materials — • m oz. 

Oatmeal 75 

Cream for Cereal 1.5 

Sugar for Cereal 44 

Cinnamon Rolls 6.5 

Butter 5 

Coffee 25 

Cream for Coffee 

Macaroni Salad 7.17 

Bread 3.00 

Butter 5 

Tea 25 

Cup Cakes 2.00 

Flank Steak 6.00 

Dressing 3.25 

Creamed Potatoes 2.37 

Peaches 2.4 

Sugar 87 

Shortcake 5.50 

Bread 1-50 

Butter 5 

Chili Sauce 1.00 

46.25 
106.10 gms. Protein 
475.95 gms. Carbohydrate 





Gms. 


Oms. 


Gms. 


Cost. 


Protein. 


Pat. 


Car^o. 


$0.0033 


3.45 


1.46 


14.07 


.0100 


1.00 


7.44 


1.80 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


12.63 


.0202 


9.95 


12.28 


102.31 


.0087 


.14 


11.98 


0.00 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


.0078 


.39 


3.83 


.40 


.0417 


15.79 


7.98 


58.35 


.0100 


7.64 


.98 


43.50 


.0087 


.14 


11.98 


0.00 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


O.OO 


.0083 


3.34 


5.10 


38.84 


.0450 


34.87 


18.71 


0.0 


.0191 


9.10 


3.38 


32.tja 


.0120 


3.71 


8.78 


15.37 


.0300 


.47 


.07 


7.34 


.0030 


0.00 


0.00 


25.26 


.0151 


9.92 


9.28 


77.05 


.0050 


3.82 


.49 


21.75 


.0087 


.14 


11.98 


0.00 


.0050 


2.83 


.85 


24.65 



$0.2661 106.10 116.57 475.95 

116.57 gms. Fat X 9.3 = 1084 Calories 

Protein and Carbo. = 2386 Calories 



582 gms. X 4.1 = 2386 Calories Total 3470 Calories 

Therefore these meals yield 3470 calories at a cost of $0,266 per day 
per person. 



OCTOBER MENUS 



65 



WEDNESDAY 



Wt. Oms. 0ms. Gms. 

Food Materials — in oz. Cost. Protein. Fat. Carbo. 

Farina 75 $0.0030 2.23 .42 16.16 

Prunes 1.00 .0038 .49 0.00 17.06 

Top of Milk 1.50 .0033 1.38 1.68 2.09 

Sugar for Cereal 44 .0015 0.00 0.00 12.63 

Milk Toast 11.60 .0362 14.18 22.79 45.22 

Coffee 25 .0015 0.00 0.00 0.00 

Cream for Coffee .0078 .38 3.83 .40 

Oatmeal Timbale 1.5 .0066 6.90 2.92 28.14 

Meat Filling 1.00 .0000 3.37 2.69 0.00 

Cream Sauce 3.00 .0095 2.64 8.72 6.52 

Bread 2.25 .0075 5.73 .75 32.64 

Butter 25 .0043 .07 5.99 0.00 

Jelly 3.60 .0090 0.00 0.00 75.78 

Tea 25 .0015 0.00 0.00 0.00 

Baked Ham 5.00 .0517 16.81 37.87 20.54 

Mashed Potatoes 4.66 .0068 2.52 2.57 18.23 

Cabbage au Gratin 7.60 .0270 10.48 14.89 19.61 

Bread Pudding 5.17 .0205 7.75 6.61 36.13 

Chocolate 1.30 .0070 .99 3.80 28.77 

Bread 1.5 .0050 3.82 .49 21.75 

Butter 25 .0043 .07 5.99 0.00 

52.87 $0.2178 79.8 122.01 381.6 

79.8 gms. Protein 122 gms. Fat X 9.3 = 1135 Calories 

381.6 gms. Carbohydrate Protein and Carbo. = 1890 Calories 

461.4 gms. X 4.1 =1890 Calories Total 3025 Calories 

Therefore these meals yield 3025 calories at a cost of $0,217 per day 
per person. 



ee 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



THURSDAY 



Food Mateeials — 

Cornflakes 

• Sugar for Cereal 

Cream for Cereal 

Cheese Fondue 

Toast 

Butter 

Coffee 

Cream for Coffee 

Potato Timbale 

Biscuits 

Butter 

Preserves 

Tea 

Beef Stew 

Dumplings 

Potatoes 

Cabbage and Nut Salad. 

Bread 

Butter 

Grape-nut Pudding 



wt. 




Oms. 


Gm,8. 


Gm8. 


in oz. 


Cost. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carho. 


.9 


$0.0040 


2.97 


.27 


23.76 


.44 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


12.63 


1.50 


.0100 


1.00 


7.44 


0.00 


5.50 


.0328 


15.37 


20.53 


14.72 


2.25 


.0075 


5.73 


.74 


32.63 


.5 


.0087 


.14 


11.98 


0.00 


.25 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 




.0078 


.38 


3.83 


0.00 


3.33 


.0159 


5.28 


10.75 


9.12 


5.5 


.0151 


9.92 


9.28 


77.05 


.5 


.0087 


.14 


11.98 


0.00 


3.6 


.0090 


0.00 


0.00 


75.78 


.25 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


4.25 


.0431 


16.18 


27.06 


3.37 


. 5.5 


.0151 
.0050 


9.92 
2.17 


9.28 
.12 


77.05 


4.25 


17.71 


4.85 


.0235 


2.00 


1.10 


3.80 


1.5 


.0050 


3.83 


.49 


21.75 


.25 


.0043 


.07 


5.99 


0.00 


9.87 


.0454 


14.66 


11.34 


63.10 



54.99 



89.76 gms. Protein 
437.47 gms. Carbohydrate 



).2654 



89.76 



132.18 



432.47 



132.18 gms. Fat X 9.3 = 1229 Calories 
Protein and Carbo. = 2140 Calories 



522.23 gms. X 4.1 = 2140 Calories Total 3369 Calories 

Therefore these meals yield 3369 calories at a cost of $0,265 per day 
per person. 



OCTOBER MENUS 



67 



FRIDAY 



Wt. Gms. Oms. Oms. 

Food Materials — in oz. Cost. Protein. Fat. Carbo. 

Browned Hash 6.25 $0.0250 9.99 11.57 17.71 

Catsup 1.00 .0156 2.83 .85 24.65 

Toast 2.25 .0075 5.73 .74 32.63 

Butter 75 .0130 .21 17.97 0.00 

Cofifee 25 .0015 0.00 0.00 0.00 

Cream for Coffee .0078 .38 3.83 .40 

Scalloped Tomatoes 3.00 .0118 2.49 6.45 13.08 

Bread 1.5 .0050 3.82 .49 21.75 

Butter 25 .0043 .07 5.99 0.00 

Tea 25 .0015 0.00 0.00 0.00 

Cottage Cheese 3.00 .0100 8.31 10.07 12.59 

Sugar 44 .0015 0.00 0.00 12.63 

Cr. of Tomato Soup... 6.00 .0195 2.32 12.22 15.44 

Finan-Haddie 5.5 .0200 24.55 1.53 0.00 

Cream Sauce 3.00 .0095 2.64 8.72 6.52 

Mashed Potatoes 4.66 .0068 2.52 2.57 18.23 

Creamed Parsnips 4.66 .0125 3.06 8.76 9.20 

Blackberry Sponge 4.75 .0434 7.03 9.63 92.61 

Bread 1.5 .0050 3.82 .49 21.75 

Butter 5 .0087 .14 11.98 0.00 

49.51 $0.2289 79.91 113.86 299.19 

79.91 gms. Protein 113.86 gms. Fat X 9.3 = 1058.8 Calories 

299.19 gms. Carbohydrate Protein and Carbo. = 1554. Calories 

379.10 gms. X 4.1 = 1554 Calories Total 2613. Calories 

Therefore these meals yield 2613 calories at a cost of $0,228 per day 
per person. 



68 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



SATURDAY 



wt. 

Food Materials — m oz. 

Ralston Food 75 

Cream for Cereal 1.5 

Sugar for Cereal 44 

Fish Cakes 4.6 

Toast 1.5 

Butter 25 

CofEee 25 

Cream for Coffee 

Cheese Crumpets 2.95 

Crackers 5 

Bread (Cinnamon Rolls) 1.5 

Butter 25 

Tea 25 

Sugar 44 

Hamburg Cakes 4.00 

Potatoes 4.33 

Gravy 2.12 

Stewed Corn 3.25 

Bread 15 

Butter 25 

Custard 6.87 



37.50 



84.30 gms. Protein 
223.00 gms. Carbohydrate 





Oms. 


Qms. 


Gms. 


Cost. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carlo. 


$0.0028 


3.07 


,86 


15.92 


.0100 


1.00 


7.44 


1.80 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


12.63 


.0149 


10.26 


7.83 


9.11 


.0050 


3.82 


.49 


21,75 


.0043 


.07 


5.99 


0,00 


,0015 


0.00 


0.00 


0,00 


,0078 


.38 


3.83 


.40 


.0217 


12.58 


26.58 


27.20 


.0125 


1.43 


.08 


11.79 


.0050 


3.82 


.49 


21.75 


.0043 


.07 


5.99 


0.00 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


12.63 


,0350 


21.55 


14.51 


0,00 


.0060 


2.19 


2.17 


17,71 


.0062 


2.56 


2.57 


6,54 


.0209 


2.55 


7.05 


16,80 


.0050 


3.82 


,49 


21,75 


,0043 


.07 


5.99 


0,00 


.0448 


15.06 


15.34 


25.22 



D.2165 



84.30 



106.40 



223.0 



106.4 gms. Fat X 9.3 = 989.5 Calories 
Protein and Carbo. = 1259.9 Calories 



307.3 gms. X 4.1 = 1259.9 Calories Total 2249.5 Calories 

Therefore these meals yield 2249 calories at a cost of $0,216 per day 
per Berson, 



OCTOBER MENUS 



69 



wt. 

Food Materials — in oz. 

Grape-fruit 3.25 

Sugar 87 

Egg 2.00 

Coffee Cake G.50 

Butter 5 

Coffee 25 

Cream for Coffee 

Pork Roast 4.00 

Apple Sauce 5.12 

Potatoes 4.25 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 3.8 

Porcupine Salad 4.2 

Bread 1.5 

Butter 25 

Blanc Mange 3.00 

Nuts 75 

Chocolate Sauce 1.33 

Cream Cheese 3.00 

Pimentoes 50 

Bread 1.5 

Butter 25 

Drop Cakes 2.00 

Cocoa 8.00 



SUNDAY 










ms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Cost. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo. 


$0.0400 


3.44 


1.93 


44.07 


.0030 


0.00 


0.00 


25.26 


.0233 


6.75 


5.27 


0.00 


.0202 


9.95 


12.28 


102.31 


.0087 


.14 


11.98 


0.00 


.0015 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


.0078 


.38 


3.83 


.40 


.0444 


15.19 


27.44 


0.00 


.0117 


.36 


.36 


38.27 


.0050 


2.17 


.12 


17.71 


.0085 


1.24 


4.66 


31.25 


.0212 


2.92 


3.30 


13.72 


.0050 


3.82 


.49 


21.75 


.0043 


.07 


5.99 


0.00 


.0076 


4.21 


5.03 


43.97 


.0063 


3.54 


5.30 


3.37 


.0070 


.99 


3.80 


28.77 


.0100 


8.31 


10.07 


12.59 


.0160 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


.0050 


3.82 


.49 


21.75 


.0043 


.07 


5.99 


0.00 


.0083 


3.34 


5.10 


38.84 


.0265 


9.53 


11.71 


18.94 



56.82 



80.25 gms. Protein 
462.97 gms. Carbohydrate 



$0.2956 



80.^; 



125.14 



462.97 



125.14 gms. Fat X 9.3 = 1163.8 Calories 
Protein and Carbo. = 2227 Calories 



543.22 gms. X 4.1 = 2227 Calories Total 3390.8 Calories 

Therefore these meals yield 3390.8 calories at a cost of $0,295 per 
day per person. 



70 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



SUMMARY OF OCTOBER MENUS 



Wt. Oms. Gms. 0ms. 

Day — in oz. Cost. Protein. Fat. Carbo. 

Monday 51.30 $0.2437 61.36 120.85 325.19 

Tuesday 46.25 .2661 106.10 116.57 475.95 

Wednesday 52.87 .2178 79.81 122.01 381.67 

Thursday 54.99 .2654 89.76 132.18 432.47 

Friday 49.51 .2289 79.91 113.86 299.19 

Saturday 37.50 .2165 84.30 106.40 223.00 

Sunday 56.82 .2956 80.25 125.14 462.97 

Totals 349.24 $1,734 581.49 837.01 2600.44 

Average per day 49.89 .248 83.07 119.57 371.42 

83.07 gms. Protein X 4.1 = 340.6 Calories 
371.42 gms. Carbo. X 4.1 = 1522.8 Calories 

1863.4 Calories 

119.57 gms. Fat -X 9.3 = 1112 Calories 

Protein and Carbo. = 1863 Calories 

Total 2975 Calories 

The average October Menu, then, yields 2975 Food Units or Calories 
per person per day, which is a liberal diet for a man of average size. 

Of the Average Total Food Value, 12% is in the form of Protein, 
37% in Fat and 51% in Carbohydrate, or starches, sugars, gums, etc. 

The Average Cost per Person per Day is $0,248. 

Note that the October Menus are calculated for each day and that 
the method is different from that used in Part I. This method is the 
older and more commonly used method. It requires more figuring than 
the method used in Paet I. The results by either method should be the 
same. For tables and further details of method used in Part I, devised 
by Dr. Fisher, see Bulletin of the School, "Food Values," price 10 cents. 
For tables of composition by weight, used in Part II, send 10 cents (coin) 
to U. S. Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C, for Bulletin 
No. 28, "Composition of American Food Materials." 

In Part III will be found calculations of separate meals by the 
Fisher percentage by food value method. 



Tables Showing Average Height, Weight, Skin Surface and Food 

Units Required Daily With Very Light Exercise 

BOYS 



Afl* 


Height in 


Weight in 


Surface 


in 




Calories or 




Inches 




Pounds 




Square 


1 Feet 




I ooJ Units 


6 


41, 


.67 




41 


.09 




7, 


.9 






816,2 


6 


43. 


75 




45 


.17 




8. 


,3 






855.9 


7 


45. 


,74 




49.07 




8. 


8 






912.4 


8 


47, 


.76 




53 


.92 




9. 


4 






981.1 


9 


49, 


.69 




59.23 




9. 


,9 






1,043.7 


10 


51. 


.68 




65 


.30 




10.5 






1,117.5 


11 


53, 


.33 




70 


.18 




11. 









1,178.2 


12 


55, 


,11 




76 


.92 




11. 


,6 






1,254.8 


13 


57.21 




84 


.85 




12. 


4 






1,352.6 


14 


69.88 




94 


,91 




13. 


4 






1,471.3 










GIRLS 












Age 


Height in 


I 


Weight in 


Surface ; 


in 




Calories or 




Inches 




Pounds 




Square Feet 




Food Units 


5 


41 


,29 




39 


.66 




7.7 






784.5 


6 


43 


,35 




43 


.28 




8, 


,1 






831.9 


7 


45 


.52 




47 


.46 




8 


.5 






881.7 


8 


47.68 




52.04 




9 


.2 






957.1 


9 


49.37 




67.07 




9. 


,7 






1,018.5 


10 


51.34 




62.35 




10.2 






1,081.0 


11 


53.42 




68. 


,84 




10. 


7 






1.148.5 


12 


55.88 




78.31 




11. 


8 






1,276.8 












MEN 












Height 
in In. 


Weight 




Surface in 








Calories oi 


■Food Units 




in Pounds 


Square Ft. 




Proteids 


Fats 




Carbohydrates Total 


61 


131 




15.92 






197 


591 






1,182 


1,970 


62 


133 




16.06 






200 


600 






1,200 


2,000 


63 


136 




16.27 






204 


612 






1,224 


2,040 


64 


140 




16.55 






210 


630 






1,260 


2,100 


63 


143 




16.76 






215 


645 






1,290 


2,150 


66 


147 




17.06 






221 


663 






1,326 


2,210 


67 


152 




17.40 






228 


684 






1,368 


2,280 


68 


157 




17. 76 






236 


708 






1,416 


2.360 


69 


162 




18.12 






243 


729 






1,458 


2,430 


70 


167 




18.48 






251 


7.-J3 






1.50G 


2,510 


71 


173 




18.91 






260 


780 






1,560 


2.600 


72 


179 




19.34 






269 


807 






1,614 


2,690 


73 


185 




19.89 






278 


834 






1,668 


2,780 


74 


192 




20.33 






288 


864 






1,728 


2,880 


75 


200 




20.88 






300 


900 






1,800 


3.000 










WOMEN 












Height 
in In. 


Weight 




Surface in 








Calories or Food Units 




in Pounds 


Square Ft. 




Proteids 


Fats 




Carbohydrates Total 


59 


119 




14.82 






179 


537 






1,074 


1,790 


60 


122 




15.03 






183 


549 






1,098 


1,830 


61 


124 




15 29 






186 


558 






1,116 


1,860 


62 


127 




15.50 






191 


573 






1,146 


1,910 


63 


131 




15.92 






197 


591 






1,182 


1,970 


64 


134 




16.13 






201 


603 






1,203 


2.010 


65 


139 




16.48 






209 


627 






1.254 


2,090 


66 


143 




16.76 






215 


645 






1,290 


2,150 


67 


147 




17.06 






221 


663 






1,32G 


2.210 


68 


151 




17.34 






227 


681 






1,362 


2.270 


69 


loo 




17.64 






232 


696 






1.392 


2.320 


70 


159 




17.92 






239 


717 






1,434 


2,39(? 


Note— 


With active exercise ac 


I increase of about 20 per 


cent total 


food units 


may be needed. 





















NOVEMBER MENUS 




2 "o 

3 .*^ 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

Part III 



WASHING DISHES 

Study to simplify the process of washing dishes as much 
as possible and to do it so well that it will be enjoyable. 
It is not the dish washing that is disagreeable, but the way 
it is done. All the conveniences that will lessen labor should 
be secured. While preparing a meal keep either a dishpan 
full of hot water standing in the sink, or, better still, stop 
the drain of the sink and fill with hot water. As the dishes 
are used drop into the water and at any convenient moment 
wash, dry and put away. 

To stop up the sink use a flat rubber disk which is held 
tightly over the drain by suction. These cost lo or 15 cents. 
In lieu of this a cloth or dish laid tightly over the drain 
will keep the water in for some time. Some of the more 
modern drains are supplied with a shut-off. 

Requisites for Dishwashing 

1. Dishpan, draining pan, dish towels, dish cloth, dish 
mop, a long-handled fiber brush, pot scraper, soap shaker, 
roll of tissue paper, sink strainer and sink scraper. 

2. Plenty of hot water, soap and a sand cleaner. 

3. A short piece of hose or rubber tubing attached to 
each faucet is a great convenience. The water can be 
turned in any direction desired and when running it does 
not splash or make much noise. 

General Preliminaries 

As the dishes are removed from the table quickly and 
carefully wipe all those that require it with tissue paper, 
instead of scraping. Instead of paper a crust of bread 
may be used. Pile all dishes of a kind together. Wipe the 
silver with paper and stand up in a tall pitcher with a broad 
base and filled with water. Put to soak everything that 
needs it, using cold water except for dishes which are 
greasy or have had sugar cooked in them. All greasy dishes 
should be thoroughly wiped out with paper. 

Copyright, 1911, Home Economics Association. 

73 



74 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Process I — With Running Water 

1. Pile dishes neatly and carefully in the sink, keep- 
ing the glasses and silver at one end. Turn in the cold 
water and rinse thoroughly. 

2. Stop the drain and turn on the hot water, holding 
the soap shaker containing scraps of soap, at the mouth 
of the hose, and directing the water all over the dishes, 
filling the sink. 

3. Let stand for 15 or 20 m while doing other work. 

4. Remove the stopper, let the soapy water drain ofif, 
and turn on the clean hot water, rinsing thoroughly. Dry 
glasses and silver. 

5. Pile the dishes in the drainer and wipe those re- 
quiring it, but if the rinsing water is very hot, scarcely any 
drying is necessary. 

Process II — Without Running Water, Dish- Washing 
Device 

1. Use two dishpans, large frying basket, folding dish 
drainer and a long-handled fiber brush or a dish mop. 

2. Fill both dishpans two-thirds full of very hot water, 
making a strong suds in the left-hand one. 

3. Have the dishes piled at the left and the folding dish 
drainer at the right. 

4. Put the wire basket into the soapy water, wash sil- 
ver with the brush and drop into the basket. 

5. When the silver is all in, lift the basket, let drain a 
second and lower into the rinsing water. 

6. Drain an instant from rinsing water and wipe silver. 

7. With plates, etc., wash each plate with the brush as it 
is put into the basket in the soapy water. When all plates 
of a size are in, lift out basket, tip to drain a second and 
lower into the rinsing water; drain and put plates into the 
folding dish drainer, each separate. If rinsing water is 
very hot and sufficient soap is used in the washing water, 
plates will dry perfectly, clean and bright. 

8. When the water in the rinsing pan becomes some- 
what dirty, add soap and use it for the washing pan, fill- 
ing up the other pan anew with clean rinsing water. 

The advantage of this method is that the hands are kept 



NOVEMBEB MENUS 75 

out of the water entirely, that very hot water may be used, 
that nothing but the glasses and silver need be wiped, thus 
saving time and labor. 

It takes less gas to heat water directly in the dishpans 
than in a kettle. 

Note. — As the large size frying basket and the folding dish drainer 
are not easily obtained except in large department stores, the School 
has made arrangements to furnish, through its Purchasing Depart- 
ment, this apparatus, consisting of folding dish drainer, large wire 
basket, and two fiber brushes for $1.50, express prepaid east of the 
Eocky Mountains, $2.00 west. 

Process III — Without Running Water 

1. Pile dishes neatly and carefully on the table at the 
left of the dishpan. Arrange drain pan at the right. 

2. Fill dishpan with hot water and use the soapshaker, 
making a good suds. 

3. Wash glasses and silver first, rinse with hot water 
and dry. 

4. Pour this hot rinse water into the dishpan and pro- 
ceed with the rest of the dishes. 

5. When through, wash the dishpan and the dish cloth 
thoroughly, using plenty of soap and water. Then wash 
the hands in cold water to remove the odor of the dishwater. 

Description of Requisites 

1. For dish towels a good absorbent should be selected. 
The best and cheapest are flour sacks and sugar sacks. 
The sugar sacks are the best, as they are very large. These 
can be obtained from grocers at almost no cost. Wash, then 
rip the stitching and hem. The coarse linen crash makes 
very good towels. They should be about i yard long and 
Yz yard wide. 

The dish towels should be scalded and rinsed each day 
after breakfast, or at the most convenient time. When- 
ever possible they should be hung in the sunshine. 

2. Dish cloths may be made from the dish towels as 
they get thin, cutting them into small pieces and hemming 
them. (Dish rags should never be seen in a home.) 

Two dish cloths should always be on hand, one for the 
kettles and the pans, the other for the glass and china. 



76 LESSONS IN COOKING 

They should be washed and scalded with the dish towels 
and spread out carefully to dry on the finger rack after 
each meal. 

3. A dish mop is very convenient to use for glasses, 
deep pitchers, etc., and to keep the hands out of very hot 
water. When through using wash with soap, scald, wring 
out and then shake thoroughly, separating the strands. Hang 
with the mop end up, allowing the strands to fall apart 
and so dry. The fiber brush is even better for such pur- 
poses. It should be cleaned each time it is used. 

4. A pot scraper or chain dish cloth should be thorough- 
ly rinsed and dried over the stove. 

5. A soapshaker is most convenient to use up all the 
small bits of soap that are left. Do not use bits of sapolio. 
These may be ground up and kept in a can for scouring 
purposes. 

6. A roll of tissue paper hanging in a convenient place 
on the kitchen wall is most useful. In lieu of this a large 
pocket may be placed on the back of a door or elsewhere 
in which scraps of tissue or soft paper may be kept ready 
for use. 

7. A sink strainer should be of good size, raised about 
an inch from the floor of the sink and enameled white. 
These are much more satisfactory than those that hang in 
the corner. The holes should be small enough to retain all 
the solid matter. 

8. A sink scraper of rubber is much better than a metal 
one. It cleans the sink more thoroughly and does not 
scratch it. 

Note. — If the above small appliances cannot be obtained locally, 
they will be sent from the School postpaid for the following prices in 
stamps: Long handled fiber brush 13c, dish mop 12c, soap shaker 
12c, pot scraper and chain 13c, sink scraper 12c, rubber tubing 15c. 





Folding Dish Drainer. 



Circular Dish Drainer. 




J^i% 




Wire Basket with Handle. 



Pot Scraper and Chain. 




Soap Shaker. 




Sink Strainer. 



DISH-WASHING APPARATUS. 



EDUCATION AND LIFE 

I. 

Typical Schools 




Home School for Girls 




II. 

^•To This Favor Shall She Come at Last 





NOVEMBER MENUS 77 

NOVEMBER MENUS 

BREAKFAST 
Monday Lesson 43 

ORANGES 

BROILED BACON POTATOES BROWNED IN CREAM 

BUTTERED TOAST COFFEE 

Oranges 

Cut the oranges in half, crosswise. Serve on a fruit 
plate with an orange spoon. 

Potatoes Browned in Cream 

Melt 2 T butter in a frying pan, add 2 T flour, mix well 
together and cook until the flour is well browned ; then add 
I c milk gradually, stirring all the time until the mixture 
thickens and boils. Add 2 c boiled potatoes cut into dice, 
mix thoroughly, spread on pan and brown, without stirring, 
letting the surplus moisture evaporate. Turn one-half over 
the other like an omelet, place on a hot platter and serve. 

For Broiled Bacon see Lesson 25. 

For Buttered Toast see Lesson i. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the potatoes, make the toast and cofifee and keep 
hot. Serve the oranges. While removing the fruit plates 
and serving the potatoes broil the bacon, which takes but a 
few minutes. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 

Monday Lesson 44 

cream of potato soup crackers 

sour cream biscuits maple syrup 

ginger snaps^ tea 

Cream of Potato Soup 

Wash, pare and slice three medium sized potatoes. Cook 
with 3 stalks of celerv cut into small pieces and i t chopped 
onion. 

While they are cooking make a White Sauce (L. 2) of 
I T flour and 2 T butter, 2 cups milk and i t salt. 

When the potatoes are done — in about 15 m — mash and 
add to the White Sauce, water and all. There should be at 
least I c. Strain through a puree sieve, reheat and serve. 



78 LESSONS IN COOKING 

If the soup seems too thick, add hot milk until the de- 
sired consistency is reached. One tablespoon chopped 
parsley may be added if desired. 

Sour Cream Biscuits 

Mix 2 c flour, y2 t soda, 2 t baking powder and >^ t salt 
and sift several times. With the tips of the fingers work 
into the flour i T butter or if desired Yz T each butter and 
lard. 

Stir in lightly with a fork enough sour milk to make the 
dough just stiff enough to handle, probably about i c. The 
dough can be left very soft if the board is well floured. 
Pat the dough out quickly ^ inch thick and cut into small 
rounds. Bake in a quick oven 15-20 m. 

If sour milk is used instead of sour cream use 2 T short- 
ening in place of i T. 

Ginger Snaps 

Put y2 c butter and i c molasses on the fire ; as soon as 
the butter is softened remove from the fire and add J^ 
c brown sugar and i t ginger. Sift 3 c flour with i t soda. 
Add to the molasses mixture. If not stiff enough to roll 
thin, add more flour. 

Cut out with a cooky cutter. Bake in a moderate oven 
10 to 15 m. Use other fats when butter is high priced. 

Preparing the Meal 

Allow about Yi h io prepare this meal. Start the soup 
and while cooking make the biscuits and tea. 
The ginger snaps should be on hand. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 45 

POT ROAST OF BEEF WITH PRUNES 

PARISIAN POTATOES KIDNEY BEANS 

STEAMED APRICOT PUDDING ORANGE SAUCE 

Pot Roast of Beef with Prunes 

An iron pot or very heavy kettle should be used for a 
pot roast. 

Select for the pot roast the middle or face of the rump, 
the round or the shoulder. Wipe with a damp cloth. 

Heat the kettle thoroughly and then add the meat. Sear 
well on all sides, then raise from the bottom on a trivet or 



NOVEMBER MENUS 79 

rack ; add i c water with i c well-washed prunes. Cover 
tightly and cook slowly below the boiling point for three 
or four hours. 

Fifteen minutes before serving remove the prunes and 
cover them with a thick syrup made of 2 c sugar, prefer- 
ably brown, and i c vinegar, boiled down to ^ c. Sev- 
eral cloves and a stick of cinnamon should be boiled in the 
syrup and then strained out as it is poured over the prunes. 
Serve meat on platter with syrup over it and prunes laid in a 
border. 

When the meat is tender, if there is still any liquor re- 
maining, remove the cover, allow it to evaporate and brown 
the meat. 

Parisian Potatoes 

With a French cutter or round vegetable spoon cut out 
of uncooked potatoes i pint of balls. Cook in boiling salted 
water about 10 m or until nearly tender ; drain and toss 
into a frying pan in which there are 4 T melted butter 
and 3^ t salt. Set the pan in the oven, or on top the stove, 
shaking it frequently until the potatoes are thoroughly 
cooked and well browned. Add a little fresh butter, a dash 
of salt if needed and i T chopped parsley. Toss the balls 
about to distribute the ingredients evenly and serve at once. 

Kidney Beans 

Pour the contents of a can of kidney beans into a sauce- 
pan, add ^ t salt, 2 t sugar and i T butter. Heat thoroughly 
and serve. 

Steamed Apricot Pudding 

Cream ^ c butter ; add }i c sugar and when well mixed 
with the butter add alternately ^ c milk and 23^2 c flour 
mixed and sifted with ^ t salt and 3 t baking powder. Add 
I c apricot pulp and cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of 3 eggs. Pour into a buttered baking dish and steam ij^ 
h in one or ^ h in individual molds. 

Other fruits, such as dates, figs, prunes, peaches, berries, 
pineapple, etc., can be used if desired. 

Serve the pudding with orange sauce. 
Orange Sauce 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, add i c sugar and mix 
until light and creamy. Add the juice and grated rind 



80 LESSONS IN COOKING 

of 3^ orange. Mix well and then add gradually ^ c hot 
water. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until the 
mixture thickens. Just before removing from the fire add 
I t of butter. 

Preparing This Meal 

Allow 4 h for the cooking of the meat and 2 h or less 
for the pudding, according to the manner of steaming. One- 
half hour before serving time prepare the potato balls. The 
potato left from the cutting of the balls should be cooked 
at the same time and reserved for future use. 

While the potatoes are boiling make the pudding sauce 
and the syrup for the prunes. Then brown the potatoes 
and cook the kidney beans. The pudding should be left in 
the steamer until ready to serve. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 46 

OATMEAL AND RAISINS CREAM AND SUGAR 

FRENCH TOAST CARAMEL SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Oatmeal 

Follow directions given in Lesson i, adding ^ c raisins, 
scalded and chopped, or else sprinkling chopped raisins over 
the top of the cereal as it is served. 

Caramel Syrup 

Boil I c sugar with ^2 c water until it becomes golden 
brown in color. Great care must be taken after the syrup 
begins to turn color that it does not burn. 

When the right color is reached add slowly and care- 
fully ^ c boiling wate-r. This must be done carefully be- 
cause the very high temperature of the syrup will raise 
that of the water so rapidly that violent boiling ensues. If 
the syrup is too thick add more water, if too thin add a 
little more sugar and boil a few minutes. Just after re- 
moving from the fire add ^ t vanilla. 

For French Toast see Lesson 7. 

Preparing the Meal 

While the cereal is cooking make the Caramel Syrup, if 
not already on hand, then the French Toast and the Coffee. 



NOVEMBER MENUS 81 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 47 

DANISH SWEET SOUP CRACKERS 

BEAN CROQUETTES BREAD AND BUTTER 

TEA 

Danish Sweet Soup 

Heat I quart of liquid composed of water and fruit juice, 
such as grape juice, etc., in equal proportions or to suit 
one's convenience. When hot add slowly ^ c "minute 
tapioca" or sago, stirring well ; then i c well-washed and 
soaked prunes, i t cinnamon or a small piece of cinnamon 
bark, % t ground cloves and 34 c sugar. 

Cook the mixture in a double boiler i h or more. If 
it becomes too thick add more liquid, either water or fruit 
juice. Serve as any other soup. 

This is a favorite dish of the Danish people. 

Bean Croquettes 

Press kidney beans left from dinner the preceding even- 
ing, and enough more to make a pint of pulp, through 
a sieve. Add ^ t salt, dash pepper and i T butter. Mix 
well, add 2 lightly beaten eggs and sufficient bread crumbs 
to make the mixture thick enough to roll. Shape into 
balls or any form desired and fry in deep fat. 

See the article on Frying, page 103. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I h before lunch start the Danish soup. Also 
prepare the croquettes for frying, if this was not done 
immediately after breakfast. 

Allow 10 or 15 m for heating the fat and 10 m for cooking 
the croquettes. Fry just before serving the soup and keep 
hot until needed. 

Before washing the dishes see that the fat is strained 
and put away for future use. 



82 LESSONS IN COOKING 

DINNER 
Tuesday Lesson 48 

PORK TENDERLOIN — GRAVY 

MASHED POTATOES SCALLOPED PUMPKIN AND RICE 

ORANGE SURPRISE 

Pork Tenderloin 

Have the butcher "French" the tenderloin, i. e., cut across 
the grain about i inch thick and then flatten with a stroke of 
the cleaver. Wipe each piece with a damp cloth to remove 
any bits of bone dust, etc. 

Grease the frying pan and when very hot put in the 
pieces of tenderloin. Brown on one side, then the other. 
Lower the flame, add about ^ c hot water, cover the pan 
closely and cook at least 15 m. Pork requires long cook- 
ing so that it be thoroughly done. 

At the end of this time the liquid, a very thick brown 
sticky substance, should have simmered down to about i 
T. Add 2 T flour, more butter, if necessary, then the milk, 
water, stock or whatever combination of liquids is desired 
to be used for the gravy. Boil a few minutes, adding salt 
if necessary. 

Scalloped Pumpkin and Rice 

In a baking dish arrange a layer of mashed pumpkin, 
over this a layer of cooked rice, and then a layer of 
Cream Sauce. Proceed in this manner until i c of each 
ingredient has been used, sprinkling buttered crumbs over 
the top. Place in the oven until well heated through and 
browned on top. 

To cook pumpkin, cut in two, scrape out the interior 
mass of seeds, pare and cut into small pieces. Now either 
cover with boiling water or else put in a steamer and cook 
until tender. Put through a vegetable press, season with 
salt, pepper and butter. Canned pumpkin may be used. 

Orange Surprise 

Heat ^ c orange juice and % c sugar over hot water; 
beat the yolks of 2 eggs, add 34 c sugar, stir into the hot 
mixture and cook until the spoon is coated with the cus- 
tard ; add i T of gelatine, softened in ^ c cold water and 
strain the entire mixture into i^^ c cream. Stir over ice 
water until the gelatine begins to stiffen, then pour into the 



NOVEMBEB MENUS 83 

empty shells of orange skins. Care must be taken in extract- 
ing the juice from the oranges not to break the skins so that 
the pulp may be scraped out and the cavities filled. It may 
be put into a large or individual molds instead of orange 
cups. 

After the jelly has become stiff cover the tops of the 
oranges with the egg whites beaten stiffly with ^ c sugar. 
Serve very cold. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare and bake the scalloped pumpkin and rice, then 
cook the meat. Prepare the mashed potatoes, using those 
left from the preceding day. Make the gravy. Ser^(g ,the 
dinner, the dessert being already made. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 49 

STEWED APRICOTS 

OATMEAL FRITTERS BUTTERED TOAST 

COFFEE 

Stewed Apricots 

Wash }4 pound dried apricots well, then cover with hot 
water and soak over night, or if more convenient, several 
hours during the day, so that they may be cooked the 
same day. Cook very slowly in the same water in which 
they were soaked, until tender throughout, and yet have 
retained their shape. If necessary, add sugar. 

Oatmeal Fritters 

Put leftover oatmeal into a small mold and stand away 
to harden. When ready to use turn it out, cut in slices 
}^ inch thick and then into strips i inch wide ; dip in egg, 
roll in bread crumbs and fry. Drain on brown paper, dust 
with powdered sugar and serve. 

For Buttered Toast see Lesson i. 

Preparing the Meal 

Egg and crumb the croquettes. While the fat is heat- 
ing make the coffee and toast. Fry the croquettes and 
serve the breakfast. 



84 LESSONS IN COOKING 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 50 

SALMON TIMBALES — CREAM SAUCE 
BREAD AND BUTTER COCOA 

Salmon Timbales 

Remove all the skin and bones from a small can of 
salmon and chop fine. Add the yolks of three eggs and 
mix well. Then add i c bread crumbs, yi t salt, dash pep- 
per and 2 T melted butter. Mix all the ingredients well 
and add the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Fold in 
carefully and thoroughly and then put the mixture in 
greased timbale molds and steam J/2 h or place the molds 
in a pan of hot water and bake in the oven. Cook slowly 
until the timbales are set. Serve with White Sauce, using 
the liquor from the salmon in place of part of the milk. 

For Cocoa see Lesson 2. 

Preparing the Meal 

About }i h before lunch prepare and bake the Salmon 
Timbales. While cooking make the White Sauce and 
Cocoa. 

Serve the Timbales either turned out on the platter or 
individually, with the Sauce poured around each. 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 51 

ROAST LAMB — MINT SAUCE 

POTATOES A LA MAITRE HOTEL CARROTS 

INDIAN PUDDING HARD SAUCE 

Roast Lamb 

Remove the pink skin and superfluous fat from a leg 
of lamb; cut the leg bone short, set in a hot oven for 15 
m, then reduce the heat, dredge with salt, pepper and 
about 3 T flour, and baste with bacon or salt pork drip- 
pings and hot water. Cook about i>4 h, longer if liked 
well done. Serve with Mint Sauce. 

Mint Sauce 

Chop the leaves from i bunch of mint very fine; pour 
over them % c boiling water, add 2 T sugar, cover closely 



NOVEMBEB MENUS 85 

and let stand in a cool place 3^ h ; then add the juice of 
I lemon, or 4 T vinegar, a dash of cayenne pepper, % t salt. 

Potatoes a la Maitre Hotel 

Boil I pint of potatoes cut into 5^ inch cubes, in boiling 
salted water about 10 m ; drain and add i c milk ; cook 
in double boiler. Cream 2 T butter, add the yolk of i egg, 
beat in well, adding i T lemon juice, i T chopped parsley, 
3/2 t salt and a dash of paprika; when the milk is partly 
absorbed, stir the above mixture into it quickly, mixing 
well. Cook 2 m and serve. 

Carrots 

Wash and scrape 4 medium-sized carrots, cut into thin 
slices, add enough boiling salted water to cover and cook 
until tender. Drain, add 3 T butter, dash paprika ; heat 
thoroughly and serve. 

Indian Pudding 

Into 2 c hot milk stir ^ c cornmeal ; then add ^ c suet, 
chopped fine, ^ c molasses, 3^ c seeded raisins, i egg, J^ 
t salt, 34 t each of ginger and cinnamon. Turn into a 
buttered baking dish and pour i c cold milk and J^ cup 
cold water over the top. Bake very slowly for 3 h. Serve 
either plain or with cream and sugar or hard sauce. 

Hard Sauce 

Cream ^ c butter, then add very gradually ij^ c pow- 
dered sugar or I c granulated. Beat well until the mix- 
ture is light and creamy. Now add the flavoring, i t 
vanilla or a grating of nutmeg or anything else desired. 

This may be shaped in various fancy forms and ar- 
ranged on the pudding. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before dinner time make the Indian Pudding ; 
an hour later prepare the Roast, then make the Mint Sauce. 

Twenty minutes before the roast is done cook the carrots 
and the potato cubes, which may be cut in the morning and 
kept in cold water. Make the Hard Sauce, then the dressing 
for the potatoes. 

Drain potatoes, add the milk and while that is being 
absorbed drain the carrots, add butter and reheat. Now 
finish the potatoes, heat thoroughly and serve the dinner. 



86 LESSONS IN COOKING 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 52 

PETTIJOHN — CREAM AND SUGAR 
POACHED EGGS ON TOAST COFFEE 

Pettijohn 

Follow directions for cooking oatmeal given in Lesson 
I, using Pettijohn in the proportion oi }i c to i}^ c hot 
water. 

Poached Eggs 

See Lesson i6. 

Preparing the Meal 

Cook the cereal. Make the toast and coffee and keep 
hot. 

If an egg poacher is convenient, place the eggs in it 
just after the cereal is served, turn out the gas from under- 
neath it and the eggs will be done when the cereal is fin- 
ished. If there is no poacher then be sure to have plenty 
of boiling water and poach the eggs after the cereal is 
served. Serve at once. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 53 

IRISH STEW 

BREAD AND BUTTER SPICED PEACHES 

TEA 

Irish Stevsr 

Cut remnants of the roast left from the preceding even- 
ing into pieces about i inch square. Put them into a 
saucepan with i T butter and 2 T flour and brown well ; 
then add enough water to completely cover them, about 2 
c, 2 onions cut into small pieces, 3 potatoes, raw, cut into 
^2 inch cubes, 2 carrots sliced thinly and salt and pepper 
to taste. Cover and cook until the potatoes are tender. 
Add more water from time to time as necessary. When 
done the gravy should be quite thick. 

Preparing the Meal 

About y2 h before lunch time prepare and cook the stew. 
Make the tea and serve the lunch. Make the bouillon for 
the next evening. 



i 



NOVEMBEB MENUS 87 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 54 

MOCK PIGEON — DRESSING 

ESPAGNOLE SAUCE 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES COMBINATION SALAD 

WASHINGTON PIE 

Mock Pigeon 

Cut veal steak into strips 6 inches long and 3 inches wide. 
Cover with Dressing, L. 27, roll up and skewer into shape 
or tie with a string. 

Put in roasting pan, dredge pigeons with flour and 
sprinkle with dots of butter. Cover bottom of pan with 
hot water. Bake in moderate oven 45 m, or until meat is 
tender. 

Espagnole Sauce 

Into a saucepan place % c butter. When melted add i 
T each of finely chopped onion and carrot, small piece of 
bayleaf, sprig of thyme and sprig of parsley. Cook, stir- 
ring constantly, until all the ingredients are well browned, 
then add 4 T flour and brown ; add 2 c brown stock, salt 
and pepper to taste. If the stock is not available use hot 
water. Boil the sauce 5 m or longer, strain and serve. 

Combination Salad 

Mix together 3^ c cooked peas, ^ c cooked kidney 
beans, J^ c string beans, %. c celery, cut in small pieces, 
% c nut meats and 2 hard-cooked eggs. Cover with Salad 
Dressing, L. 15, and serve on lettuce leaf. 

Washington Pie 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs until light, add 1^2 c sugar and 
beat until creamy. Add gradually ^2 c boiling water. 
When well blended add 2 c flour, sifted twice with 2 t 
baking powder and cut and fold in the stiffly beaten Vv'hites 
of the eggs. 

Bake in two layers about 20 m in a moderate oven, or 
until a straw inserted into the center of the cake can be 
withdrawn clean. The cake when done shrinks away f;om 
the sides of the pan. See Cake Baking, Helpful Sugges- 
tions — page 105. Put the layers together with a cream 
filling and serve cold. Whipped cream may be spread on 



88 LESSONS IN COOKING 

the top or the cream filling may be used, or it may be 
sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

Cream Filling 

Put I c milk in double boiler to heat, adding to it 3^ c 
sugar. Beat 2>^ T flour with a little cold milk until smooth 
and about as thick as cream and add to the hot milk. 
Cook directly over the flame for a minute or so, letting 
it boil so as to thoroughly cook the flour. 

Beat I egg slightly so as to mix the white and yolk well, 
then gradually and slowly pour onto it the hot milk mix- 
ture, stirring all the time. Return to the double boiler, 
cook 2 m, remove from the fire and add i t butter. Beat 
well for a few minutes, then set aside to cool. When cold 
add I t vanilla. When ready to serve spread on the cake 
between the layers. 

For Baked Potatoes see Lesson 6. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the Washington Pie and put into the oven fo 
bake with the Mock Pigeons and Potatoes about ^4 h before 
dinner. Make the Salad. 

As soon as the Washington Pie is done remove frorn the 
oven, let cool, then put together with the Cream Filling 
which should have been made in the morning. In the 
meantime make the Espagnole Sauce and serve the dinner. 

Note. — There will probably be some good meat juices 
left in the pan. Pour a little hot water into this, stirring 
it welf all around the pan and scraping up every bit that 
has adhered to the bottom of the pan. Then pour this into 
a jar and save to be used later in gravies, soups, etc. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 55 

BAKED BANANAS 

HAMBURG CAKES BUTTERED TOAST 

COFFEE 

Baked Bananas 

Select rather underripe bananas ; put them in a hot oven 
without removing the skins and bake until the skins burst. 
Serve at once in a folded napkin with butter. 

For Hamburg Cakes see Lesson 39. 

For Buttered Toast see Lesson i. 



NOVEMBEE MENUS 89 

Preparing the Meal 

Bake the bananas, allowing 30 m. If desired the Ham- 
burg Cakes can be mixed and shaped after dinner the pre- 
ceding evening and placed on a plate in a cool place until 
needed. 

Pan broil the cakes, make the toast and coffee. Serve 
the breakfast. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 56 

TOMATO AND CHEESE PUDDING 

HOT BISCUITS APRICOT PRESERVES 

TEA 

Tomato and Cheese Pudding 

Mix I pint of canned tomatoes, i c bread crumbs, j/^ c 
grated or finely cut cheese, yz t salt and pepper to taste, 
and pour into a buttered baking dish. Mix y^ c bread crumbs 
with I T melted butter and 2 T grated cheese ; spread 
over the top of the pudding and bake about 20 m. 

For Biscuits see Lesson 10 for baking powder or Lesson 
44 for sour cream biscuits. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3^ h before lunch time make the tomato and cheese 
pudding, and place in the oven in a pan of water. Make 
the biscuits and place in the oven. When done serve the 
lunch. 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 57 

BOUILLON 

BAKED WHITE FISH — STUFFING 

MASHED POTATOES KOHL RABBI SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

BAKED RICE PUDDING 

Bouillon 

Wipe and cut into small pieces 4 pounds of meat from 
the neck, middle round, etc. ; break 2 pounds of bone into 
small pieces ; add 2 quarts of cold water and heat slowly ; 
when hot add i T salt, 4 peppercorns, 4 cloves and i T 
mixed herbs. Simmer 5 h. Boil down to 3 pints. Strain, 
cool, remove the fat, season with salt and pepper, if neces- 



90 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



sary, reheat and serve. One onion, half a carrot and half a 
turnip may be cooked with the bouillon if desired. 

Baked White Fish 

Test for Fresh Fish. — Fresh fish should have no odor, 
the flesh should be firm and should spring back from the 
touch, be bright and crisp looking; the eyes should be 
bright, not dull and lusterless, and the gills a bright red 
color. 

Care of Fish. — Fish, as purchased from the market, nas 
been drawn and cleaned, but will need additional attention. 
Begin at the tail and scrape the fish to remove the scales. 
See that the swim bladder has been removed and the in- 
side thoroughly scraped and cleansed. Wash well, inside 
and out, drain and dry. Do not let the fish stand in water. 

If the fish is to be served whole leave head and tail intact, 
but remove the eyes and fins. 




Fish Stuffed and Trussed for Baking. 

Lay the fish on the back, fill with the stuffing and fasten 
with skewers. Turn the fish over, skewer into the shape 
of a letter S and tie with a cord. Wrap tail in manila pa- 
per to keep from burning. Place on fish rack or strips 
of cloth in dripping pan. Place the pan in a moderately 
hot oven and bake about 30 m, or until the flesh is tender. 
Lift the rack or cloth from the pan and carefully slide 
the fish onto a platter. Remove skewers, string and paper, 
garnish the head with parsley or cress and serve with lemons 
cut in quarters. 

Stuffing 

Mix I c cracker crumbs, % t salt, ^ t pepper, few drops 
onion juice, i t each chopped parsley, capers and pickles, 
and moisten with ^ c melted butter 



NOVEMBEE MENUS 91 

Kohl-Rabi 

Kohl-rabi is a cross between a cabbage and a turnip. It 
stores its nourishment just above the ground in a turnip- 
like swelling of the stem from which the leaves spring. 

To cook remove the leaves and cut a thick paring from 
the outside, removing all the woody portion. Cut the flesh 
into slices J^ inch thick. Throw them into boiling salted 
water, boil rapidly for 30 m, uncovered. Drain and serve 
with a cream sauce, or Sauce Hollandaise. 

Sauce Hollandaise 

Put a bit of bay leaf and i T chopped onion into 2 T 
vinegar, bring to the boiling point, then cool. Melt 2 T 
butter, add i T flour, and when well blended add gradually 
I cup boiling water. Stir until boiling, then add the strained 
vinegar. Take from the fire and stir in gradually the yolks 
of 2 eggs. Heat very gently just a moment, add ^ t salt 
and a dash of pepper, pour over the kohl-rabi and serve at 
once. 

Baked Rice Pudding 

Blanch 6 T rice according to directions given in Les- 
son 24. Add 4 c milk and cook in a double-boiler for ^ h. 
Add ^ c sugar and 3^ c raisins, scalded and seeded, 
pour into a baking dish and bake i h or longer in a moderate 
oven. As soon as the first crust forms, which will be in 
about 15 m, stir it down, at the same time stirring the rice. 
Do this again in about 20 m or so, then allow the last crust 
to form and brown. 

Serve plain, with sugar and cream, or with hard sauce. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 2 h before lunch, blanch the rice and cook in the 
double-boiler. While rice is cooking get the fish ready for 
baking. Then start the potatoes and kohl-rabi cooking. 
Bake fish on top shelf of oven while rice is cooking on lower. 
Wash the dishes used so far, wiping any knives and forks 
used for the fish with lemon juice to remove the odor of 
the fish. 

Reheat the bouillon made the preceding day, then make 
the Sauce Hollandaise for the kohl-rabi, quarter a lemon 
and wash a little parsley for garnish. When the potatoes 
are tender, drain and mash. Drain the kohl-rabi and cover 



92 LESSONS IN COOKING 

with the sauce. Remove the fish from the oven to a hot 
platter garnished with parsley and lemon quarters. 

Serve the dinner at once, leaving the rice in the oven, with 
no gas burning, however, until time for dessert. 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 58 

FARINA 

FISH CAKES BREAKFAST MUFFINS 

COFFEE 

Breakfast MufBns 

Sift together 2 c flour, i t salt, 4 t baking-powder, and 
2 T sugar. Beat i egg until light, add % c milk, and stir 
at once into the dry mixture. Add i T melted butter and 
% c broiled bacon cut into small pieces. Mix well and pour 
into hot greased muffin rings. Bake about 25 m in a hot 
oven. 

For Farina see Lesson 19. 

For Fish Cakes see Lesson 37. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start cereal to cooking. Make the muffins. While baking 
make the fish cakes from the mashed potatoes and baked 
fish left from the preceding evening. Or if desired the cakes 
may be made the evening before and set away in a cool 
place until morning. While browning make the coffee. 

Serve the cereal, then the fish cakes, muffins and coffee. 

Saturday Morning Baking 

The following dishes for the Saturday and Sunday meals 
should be prepared in the order given : 

Brown Bread 

See Lesson 17. 

Fruit Pudding 

Sift together i c whole wheat flour, }4 c white flour, 
^2 t salt, ^ t soda, i t each cinnamon, mace, and cloves. 
-Beat I egg and add to it Yz c molasses, 5^ c sweet 
milk, and 34 c melted butter. Add the dry ingredients to 
the molasses mixture, and then add ^ c chopped fruit, cur- 
rants, raisins, figs, dates, citron, etc. 



NOVEMBEB MENUS 93 

Pour into a greased mold and steam 2^ h. Serve with 
hard sauce made according to directions given in Lesson 51. 

Nut Brownies 

Cream y^ c butter and ^ c pulverized sugar until very 
light and creamy. Add Ys c molasses and mix well. Then 
add I well beaten egg. When this is well blended with the 
other ingredients add ^ c bread flour and y^ to i c chopped 
nuts. 

Drop from a spoon onto greased tins and bake 15 m in a 
moderately hot oven. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Cook 4 c cranberries with i c water until they are tender. 
Press through a strainer. 

To the juice and pulp thus obtained add 2 c sugar and 
cook until the mixture is ready to jelly. With this amount 
of fruit this stage will be reached in a few minutes. It may 
be determined by trying a little from time to time on a 
saucer. Remove from the fire, pour into hot jelly glasses 
and set aside to be used when desired. 

Method of Work 

Immediately after breakfast mix the Brown Bread and 
start to steaming. Next make the Fruit Pudding and steam 
with the Bread. Make the Nut Brownies, and while they 
are baking make the Cranberry Jelly. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 59 

SWEET POTATO AND ALMOND CROQUETTES 

BROWN BREAD CREAM CHEESE 

TEA 

Sweet Potato and Almond Croquettes 

To 2 c mashed sweet potato add i t salt, 2 T butter, i 
beaten egg, 3 T blanched almonds, chopped and pounded 
in a mortar, and enough hot milk or cream to make of the 
consistency to handle. It will probably be soft enough 
without the milk. 

Form into any shape desired, dip into egg, then crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. 

For Boston Brown Bread see Lesson 17. 



94 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

From the sweet potatoes left over from Thursday evening 
make the croquettes and set aside to fry wiien ready for 
them. 

Fifteen minutes before lunch time heat the fat. Make 
the tea and 5 m before serving fry the croquettes. Serve 
in a hot covered dish. 

The Cream or Neufchatel Cheese should be removed from 
the wrappings, placed on a small plate and served with a 
cheese scoop or small knife. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 60 

RAGOUT OF BEEF WITH RICE BORDER 

SPINACH BALLS 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING — VANILLA SAUCE 

Ragout of Beef 

Cut 2 pounds of the upper round of beef into inch squares. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and roll them in flour. Put 
into a saucepan 2 T butter, drippings, or suet to cover the 
bottom of the pan ; when grease is hot add the meat and 
cook until well browned on all sides. Draw the meat to 
one side of the pan, add i T flour, and brown, taking care 
that it does not scorch. Add i c stock or water, stir until it 
comes to the boiling point ; then add i t salt, ^ t pepper, 
^ t kitchen bouquet, i carrot cut into dice, and i T chopped 
onion. Cover the pan and cook slowly below the boiling 
point for i h. 

On a hot platter make a border of boiled rice. In the 
center pour the ragout and serve at once. 
Spinach Balls 

Melt 2 T butter, add 2 T flour and 5^ t sugar. When 
blended add i T cream and }i c cooked spinach, chopped 
fine. Beat well, remove from the fire, add 2 eggs, one at a 
time. Season with salt and pepper to taste and about }i t 
ground mace. Fill a tablespoon with the mixture, making 
it level with the edge of the spoon, slip it off into a pan of 
boiling water, and poach 4 or 5 m, or until firm. Six or 
more balls may be cooked at the same time. Drain in a 
collander while making the cream sauce in which they are 
to be served. Canned spinach may be used when the fresh 
is not in the market. 



NOVEMBEE MENUS 95 

Vanilla Sauce 

Mix togetiier 5^ c sugar, i T cornstarch, and % t salt. 
Add gradually, stirring constantly, i c boiling water, and 
boil the mixture 5 m or longer. Remove from the fire, add 
2 T butter, ^ t salt, and i t vanilla. 

For Chocolate Bread Pudding see Lesson 30. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 1 54 hours before dinner time prepare and cook the 
ragout. Then blanch 3^ c rice according to directions given 
in Lesson 24, and cook in double-boiler, with 2 c water, ^ h 
or until tender. Make the bread pudding and bake. Pre- 
pare the spinach balls for cooking. Make the sauce for the 
pudding, then the cream sauce for the spinach balls. Cook 
the balls in hot water. 

Arrange the rice in a border on a hot platter, fill the center 
with the rsgout, and serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 61 

GRAPEFRUIT 

CORNFLAKES — CREAM AND SUGAR 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS BUTTERED TOAST 

COFFEE 

Soft Cooked Eggs 

Cover the eggs with cold water, put on the fire and heat 
slowly to the boiling point. Remove from the water and 
serve at once. 

For Grapefruit see Lesson 40. 

For Buttered Toast see Lesson i. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the coffee, then the toast, and crisp the cornflakes 
in the oven. Place the grapefruit, prepared the evening 
before, on fruit plates and set on the table. 

When the fruit has been eaten serve the cereal. 

Just before sitting down to breakfast cover the eggs com- 
pletely with cold water and place over a slow fire. By the 
time the cereal is finished the eggs will be nicely cooked. 
Serve in a hot dish, covered with a napkin, with the coffee 
and toast. 



96 LESSONS IN COOKING 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 62 

STEWED CHICKEN — DUMPLINGS 

MASHED POTATOES CREAMED TURNIPS 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

FRUIT PUDDING HARD SAUCE 

Stewed Chicken 

Singe the chicken by passing it quickly several times 
over a direct flame. Remove the pin feathers and tendons, 
and oil sac from the tail, then separate the fowl into pieces 
at the joints. Beginning with the legs, cut through the 
loose skin between the legs and the body, bend the leg and 
cut off at the joint; by moving the legs a little the joint 
between the "second joint" and the drumstick may be ascer- 
tained; cut through the flesh at this point, then sever the 
ligaments. Cut through the skin and flesh on the under 
side where the wing joins the body, and disjoint the wing. 
Make an incision between the end of the breast-bone and 
the tail, then remove the internal organs. Cut through the 
ribs and the articulation at the top of the collar bone, thus 
separating the breast and back; divide the back by cutting 
through the middle crosswise and breaking at the joint. 
Often the wish-bone and the flesh attached to it are cut off 
and the rest of the breast chopped in two parts at the bone ; 
these, however, while convenient for serving, are not natural 
divisions. Be very careful to remove the lungs and the 
kidneys, which are the dark brown substance lying in the 
hollows under the backbone. Wash thoroughly in soda 
water, rubbing the skin well with a cloth. 

Place the pieces of chicken in a saucepan, cover with i 
quart of boiling water, add an onion with a clove pressed 
into it, a bit of bayleaf, and ^ t salt. Boil lo m, skim off 
the coagulated juices which rise to the top, lest they settle 
upon the chicken and cause it to look unsightly, then lower 
the flame and let cook below the boiling point until the 
chicken is tender. Add the dumplings, made according to 
directions given in Lesson 33. When done, remove at once 
to a hot platter, add % c flour mixed with % c water to 
the broth, and cook until thick, stirring all the time. Place 
chicken in the center of the platter with the dumplings 
formmg a border. Pour the gravy over all. 



NOVEMBEB MENUS 97 

Creamed Turnips 

Wash and pare the turnips and put on to cook, after being 
cut in small pieces, in boiling salted water. Cook about 
20 m, or until tender. Drain, and cover with i c medium 
White Sauce. (See "Helpful Suggestions," Part I.) 

For Mashed Potatoes see Lesson 3. 

For Fruit Pudding see Lesson 58. 

Preparing the Meal 

The chicken may be prepared for cooking on Saturday, 
then placed in a covered dish in a cool place until ready to 
cook on Sunday. If one possesses a "fireless cooker," after 
boiling the chicken for 10 m it may be placed in a "cooker" 
and left for 3 h or more, depending upon the age and tough- 
ness of the fowl. 

If a "fireless cooker" is not available, then put the chicken 
on to cook about 2 h before dinner time, or if very tough 
more time should be allowed. 

About 40 m before serving, wash and pare the potatoes 
and turnips and put on to cook. Twenty minutes or so 
later make the dumplings and drop into the broth. The 
pudding, which has been cooked the day before, may be 
reheated by steaming over the chicken while it is cooking. 
Make the cream sauce for the turnips, mash the potatoes, 
cream the turnips, thicken the broth, and serve the dinner. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 63 

OYSTER STEW — CRACKERS 

NUT BROWNIES CANNED FRUIT 

COCOA 

Oyster Stew 

Examine each oyster, remove any bits of shell, but retain 
all the oyster crabs, which are considered a delicacy. 

In a double-boiler heat 2 c milk. Drain the liquor from 
the oysters, heat to the boiling point, and strain through a 
cheesecloth. Add to the hot milk, thicken with 2 T butter, 
2 T flour, creamed together, and season with 3^ t salt and a 
dash of pepper. When creamy add the oysters, cook until 



98 LESSONS IN COOKING 

plump and the gills begin to curl. Pour into a hot tureen 
and serve at once with crackers. 

For Nut Brownies see Lesson 58. 

For Cocoa see Lesson 2. 

Preparing the Meal 

Twenty minutes before supper time prepare the oyster 
stew. Sufficient milk for the cocoa as well as for the soup 
may be heated at the same time. Cook the cocoa mixture 
and add the desired amount of hot milk to it and let stand 
until the stew is done. Serve the supper. 

THANKSGIVING DINNER 

Lesson 64 

CLEAR TOMATO SOUP — CRACKER CRISPS 

ROAST TURKEY 

POTATO STUFFING CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

CRANBERRY JELLY IN ORANGE CUPS 

ORANGE AND CHERRY SALAD 

STEAMED FIG PUDDING FOAMY SAUCE 

COFFEE 
FRUIT NUTS AND RAISINS 

Color Scheme: Red and Yellow 

Table Decoration 

A centerpiece may be made of half a pumpkin hollowed 
out to form a basket and filled with fruit, having red apples 
showing at the top and Tokay grapes hanging over the sides 
in a careless yet artistic manner. If desired, red and yellow 
ribbon and crepe paper can be used effectively. 

Clear Tomato Soup 

Cook I can of tomatoes with i pint water, I slice onion, 
12 peppercorns, a bit of bay leaf, 4 cloves, 2 t sugar, i t salt, 
for 20 m. Strain and add ^ t soda. Bind with 2 T butter 
and 3 T flour. Reheat and serve. 
Cracker Crisps 

Split the thick milk crackers, butter the inside and toast. 
Potato Stuffing 

Mix 2 c hot mashed potato, 2 c stale bread crumbs, 2 t 
salt, I t thyme, 3 T finely chopped onion, and ^ c melted 
butter. Use with roast fowl. 
Candied Sweet Potatoes, p. 59. Cranberry Jelly, p. 93. 



NOVEMBER MENUS 99 

Orange and Cherry Salad 

Remove the white membrane from the pulp of 2 oranges 
and cut each section into half, crosswise. Mix i c pine- 
apple, cut into cubes, with 3^ c candied cherries, halved, by 
tossing together with two forks. Add the oranges and 
cover the salad with Lemon Cream Sauce. 

Lemon Cream Sauce 

To ^2 c cream, whipped, add 4 T sugar and 3 T lemon 
juice. Pour over the salad. 

Steamed Fig Pudding 

To 2^/2 c flour, sifted with i t soda, i t each ginger, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg, add i c molasses, i c sweet milk, i c 
chopped suet, i c chopped figs and i c stoned raisins. 

Steam in moulds the size of pound baking-powdei tins, 
2 hours. 

Foamy Sauce 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs until foamy, add i c sugar, 
beat well, then add i c scalded milk and the juice of i lemon. 
Water may be substituted for milk. To make it yellow use 
the whole egg. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare and stuff the turkey the day before. If it is a 
large turkey, weighing over 10 pounds, it would be best to 
bake it for an hour the night before, leaving it in the oven 
as it cools off. Then start the baking again about 8 o'clock 
in the morning, keeping the temperature very low and 
basting from time to time. While baking it should be laid 
first on one side, then the other, and as soon as browned 
turned on the breast and left there until a few minutes 
before taking from the oven, when it should be turned on 
the back, allowing the breast to brown. 

The turkey should be dressed the day before, full direc- 
tions for which will be found in "Helpful Suggestions," 
page lOi. 

The cranberry jelly can be made if desired the day before, 
reheated in the morning, and poured into the orange cups. 
In the morning the orange cups may be prepared by cutting 
well shaped oranges into halves, crosswise. Remove the 



100 LESSONS IN COOKING 

pulp carefully so that it can be used for salad. If desired, 
scallop the edges and fill with the cranberry jelly, putting 
in a cool place to set. 

An hour before dinner time wash and scrub the sweet 
potatoes. Put on to cook in boiling water. The pudding, 
which should have been made beforehand, may be reheated 
in a steamer set over the potatoes. Prepare the fruit for the 
salad and set in a cool place. Then make the Lemon Cream 
Sauce. When the potatoes are tender remove from the 
boiling water and prepare for the oven. Make the soup 
and the cracker crisps. The table should have been pre- 
pared before the dinner was started. The last thing before 
serving the dinner make the sauce for the pudding. 

While serving the soup and cracker crisps, keep the rest 
of the meal hot. Just before serving the dessert, beat the 
sauce thoroughly. 



NOVEMBER MENUS 101 

HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS 

Dressing and Trussing a Fowl 

A good chicken or turkey should be plump, the cartilage 
at the end of the breast-bone soft and pliable, and the legs 
smooth. If very young there will be many pin feathers. 
These and all the feathers should be carefully removed. 
Then scorch well by holding over a direct flame, burning 
paper or otherwise. 

Then proceed as follows : 

1. With a sharp knife cut through the thick skin on tlie 
leg I inch below the knee. Break the bone at this point. 
Insert a stiff skewer under each one of the tendons found 
on the back and front of leg and pull carefully, removing 
as many as possible. A few may break. Then remove the 
leg, leaving an inch of bone below the joint. When baked 
this will come off easily, leaving a fresh, unburned end. 

2. Split the skin down the back of the neck and cut the 
neck out even with the shoulders, leaving the skin loose. 

3. Remove the crop, windpipe, etc., from the neck. This 
can be done, especially if the crop is full ; otherwise, remove 
the rest of the entrails, loosening thoroughly by breaking 
all the connecting membranes with the finger. Be careful 
not to break the skin over the breast. 

4. Remove the oil sac from the tail. 

5. Insert sharp pointed knife and cut vent loose from 
the skin. 

6. Make an incision under the left leg. Insert the fingers 
and break through the membrane. Then work the fingers 
up around between the breast and the intestines, and around 
next to the back, thus loosening everything. Take hold of 
the gizzard and remove carefully, bringing with it all of the 
entrails. See that the lungs and kidneys, which lie against 
the back, are removed. 

7. Put fowl into a pan of water to which has been added 
I t soda for every 2 quarts of water. With a small cloth 
wash carefully inside and out, rubbing the skin well. Then 
rinse thoroughly, letting plenty of water run through the 
fowl. Dry well. 

8. Lay the fowl on the back, season inside with salt and 
pepper, and stuff the breast until it is smooth and plump. 



102 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Fold the skin of the neck down on the back and pin with a 
small steel skewer. 

9. StuiT the body of the fowl, press the legs close to the 
body, hold firmly with one hand and with the other push 




Chicken Stuffed and Trussed for Roasting. 

the thigh up into the side. Fasten with a skewer run 
through from one leg to the other. Lay wings close to the 
body and fasten with a skewer. Insert a skewer under the 
tail. Wrap a piece of cord around the tail, bringing one end 
up on the right side, wrapping it twice around the leg 
skewer, then up around the wing skewer across under the 
back, repeating the process on the left side, bringing it down 
and fastening at the tail. 

10. Season all well, and rub over with melted butter. 

Sauteing Method of Cooking in Fat 

Sauteing is cooking in a small amount of fat. This 
process is commonly known as frying. Food so cooked is 
very difficult to digest because it is impossible to prevent the 
fat from penetrating and soaking into the food. 
Frying 

Frying is cooking by immersing the food in deep, hot fat. 
The fat should be hot enough to immediately form a crust, 
which, while allowing the penetration of heat, keeps the food 
dry and digestible. 
The Cracking Point 

The cracking point of fat, commonly called the burning 
point, or the point at which it breaks up into glycerine and 
fatty acids, determines its frying qualities. The higher this 
point, the better for frying. The lowest temperature at 
which food can be cooked is 360° F. If the fat "cracks" 
at this point, or below it, it is not only undesirable but also 
injurious to use. Vegetable fats or oils have a much higher 
cracking point than animal fats, hence are much better for 
frying. Olive oil would be the best if the cost need not be 



NOVEMBER MENUS 103 

considered. In such case, Wesson Cooking" Oil or other 
cottonseed-oil products, if thoroughly purified, can be used. 
Animal fats which have a low cracking point, such as lard, 
clarified drippings, suet, etc., must be used with great care 
to have them hot enough to cook in and yet not burn. 

Cooking fats do not boil, the bubbles arising in the kettle 
of hot fat, and the spluttering noises, being caused by water 
in the fat. The temperature of "spluttering fat" is about 
212° F. (the boiling point of water), aiid it will not become 
any hotter so long as any water remains in the fat. When 
this is all evaporated the fat becomes still and the tempera- 
ture should rise to about 380° F. 

When the frying is completed and the fat has stood a 
few minutes to cool and settle, strain through a sieve over 
which a piece of cheesecloth has been placed, into a. clean 
receptacle. Wipe out the kettle with cloth or paper, return 
the fat, cover closely, and set aside. Fat in the liquid form, 
such as oil, is very convenient, as it can be poured back into 
the cans, ready for use the next time, and kept until needed. 

If after use the fat becomes dark colored heat very slowly 
and drop in a few slices of raw potato. They will quickly 
absorb various impurities from the fat and thus clarify it. 
Test for Frying Temperature 

For uncooked articles, doughnuts, etc., fat should be hot 
enough to brown a bit of bread in 40 seconds. 

For cooked articles, croquettes, etc., fat should be hot 
enough to brown bread in 20 seconds. 
To Prevent Food Absorbing Fat 

Have fat hot enough to answer the above test. 

Do not put too many cold articles in at once. 

Do not have the mixture too rich. 

Do not use too much baking powder. 

Have an unbroken coating of egg and crumbs on cro- 
quettes. 
Care After Frying 

Hold frying-basket over the hot fat until it is well drained. 

Place fried articles on unglazed brown paper. 

Do not pile articles until they are cold. 
To Prepare Bread Crumbs 

Dry pieces of bread thoroughly, either in the open air 
or in a slow oven. Crush them fine and even with a rollinsr 



104 LESSONS IN COOKING 

pin, or else run through a food grinder. If two grades are 
desired, sift them, keeping the finer crumbs in one jar and 
the coarser in another. 
How to Egg and Crumb Croquettes 

Break an egg in a plate, beat slightly with a fork, and 
add I T water. Place a fork and tablespoon in this mixture. 

Fill another plate with crumbs. 

Roll the croquette in crumbs to dry it. Place it upon the 
fork and dip the egg over it with the spoon, carefully 
covering every part. 

Drain and slip from the fork into the crumbs, and give the 
final shaping. Cover croquette well with crumbs before 
handUng it. 

Be careful not to get the fork and spoon into the crumbs. 

A wire egg whip used in place of the fork is convenient 
for large, soft croquettes. 

Cake Baking 

Classes of Cakes 

1. With Butter. Illustration: pound cake, fruit cake, 
etc. 

2. Without Butter. Illustration: sponge cake, angel 
cake, etc. 

Ingredients 

In making cakes use the best ingredients; fresh eggs, 
good butter, fine granulated sugar, and pastry flour. Bread 
flour may be used, but the texture of the cake will not be so 
delicate on account of the greater amount of gluten. In 
using bread flour take one-eighth less per cup than directed 
by the recipe. Oleo and other fats may be used but not such 
fine cake results. 
Flour Test 

To test good pastry flour see that it has a velvety soft 
texture when rubbed between the fingers. Bread flour will 
feel grainy. 
Order of Work 

1. Prepare the pans. 

2. Collect and measure materials. 

3. Heat and regulate oven. 
Preparing the Pans 

If paper is used on the bottom of the pan it must fit neatly 
without folds or creases and project a little above the sides 



NOVEMBER MENUS 105 

of the pan. Grease the pan, then place the paper in the pan, 
grease the paper and dust lightly with flour. If paper is not 
used grease the pan and dust lightly with flour. 
Test for Oven 

The oven is hot enough if it will brown flour in 5 m, or if 
the hand can be held in the oven while counting 20 slowly. 
Temperature 

On account of the presence of a large amount of egg 
sponge and angel cakes must be baked at a much lower tem- 
perature than butter cakes. 
Process of Making Butter Cakes 

1. Cream butter. 

2. Add sugar gradually and cream. 

3. Add beaten yolks, if used. 

4. Mix and sift dry ingredients. 

5. Add to the first mixture, alternating with the liquid. 

6. Cut and fold in the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 

7. Put into the pans and bake. 
Time of Baking 

Layer cakes require from 20 to 25 m. 

Loaf cakes take from 40 to 60 m. or longer. 

Divide the time into quarters. 

First Quarter — Cake should raise on sides. 

Second Quarter — Cake should raise in center and specks 
of brown appear. 

Third Quarter — Cake should brown evenly all over. 

Fourth Quarter — Cake should shrink from the sides of 
the pan and settle. 

To determine if the cake is done press with the finger : if it 
springs back from the touch it is done. Or push a well 
sterilized broom straw into the cake. If any particles cling 
to it the cake needs longer baking. If done the straw will 
come out clean. 
To Remove From the Pans 

As soon as the cake is done remove from the pans by 
inverting it over a wire cake cooler, or an old piece of linen 
spread on the bread board. If inclined to stick, loosen care- 
fully with a knife, or rest the pan successively on different 
sides, letting the weight of the cake help to loosen it. If it 
sticks badly on the bottom set the pan for a few minutes on a 
cold wet cloth. Do not frost the cake until cold. 



NOVEMBER MENUS— COST AND FOOD VALUE— ONE PERSON 

MONDAY 
Breakfast 

FOOD UNITS 

Wt. Starch & 

Food Materials — Cost in oz. Total Protein Fat Sugar 

Orange $0.0125 4.7 50.0 3.0 1.5 45.5 

Potato 0050 3.6 100.0 11.0 1.0 88.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 .5 99.5 00.0 

Bacon 0080 .5 100.0 6.0 94.0 00.0 

Toast 0075 2.6 200.0 26.0 12.0 162.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 .5 99.5 00.0 

Cream for Coffee 0078 .8 50.0 2.5 43.0 4.5 

Breakfast Totals.. .$0.0582 13.2 700.0 49.5 350.5 300.0 

Percentage ©f Food Values 7 49 43 

Luncheon or Supper 

Cream of Potato Soup. $0.0145 9.9 150.0 21.5 47.5 81.0 

Crackers 0075 .8 100.0 .4 20.0 70.6 

Biscuit 0151 1.2 100.0 12.0 7.0 81.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 .5 99.5 00.0 

Maple Syrup 0175 2.4 200.0 00.0 00.0 200.0 

Ginger Snaps 0030 .9 100.0 6.0 23.0 71.0 

Sugar for Tea 0015 .8 100.0 00.0 00.0 100.0 

Luncheon Totals.. .$0.0678 16.5 850.0 49.4 197.0 603.6 

Percentage of Food Values 6 23 71 

Dinner 

Post Roast of Beef $0.0200 2.2 100.0 90.0 10.0 00.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 ^5 99.5 00.0 

Prunes 0038 1.1 100.0 3.0 00.0 97.0 

Potatoes 0050 3.6 100.0 11.0 1.0 88.0 

Kidney Beans 0067 .9 100.0 23.6 3.2 73.2 

Apricots 0137 1.2 100.0 7.0 3.0 90.0 

Pudding 0338 5.5 445.0 47.7 120.0 277.3 

Orange Sauce 0287 2.0 314.8 6.6 56.0 252.2 

Bread 0037 1.3 100.0 13.0 6.0 81.0 

Butter 0174 1.0 200.0 1.0 199.0 00.0 

Dinner Totals $0.1415 19.3 1659.8 203.4 497.7 958.7 

Percentage of Food Values 12 30 58 

Total for Day $0.2675 49.0 3209.8 302.3 1045.2 1861.3 

Percentage of Food Values of the Day 9 34 57 

106 



NOVEMBER MENUS 



107 



TUESDAY 
Breakfast 



Food Materials — Cost 

Oatmeal 10.0033 

Cream for Cereal 0100 

Sugar for Cereal 0015 

Raisins 0062 

French Toast 0243 

Syrup 0080 

Coffee 0015 

Cream for Coffee 0078 

Breakfast Totals.. .$0.0628 
Percentage of Food Values 



Wt. 






Starch & 


IN OZ. 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Sugar 


3.7 


66.6 


12.0 


4.6 


50.0 


1.6 


50.0 


6.0 


34.5 


9.5 


.8 


100.0 


00.0 


00.0 


100.0 


1.0 


100.0 


3.0 


9.0 


88.0 


3.3 


148.S 


25.2 


33.6 


90.0 


2.3 


67.3 


00.0 


00.0 


67.3 


0.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


.8 


50.0 


2.5 


43.0 


4.5 



13.^^ 582.7 



48.7 
8.4 



124.7 
21.4 



409.3 
70.2 



Luncheon or Supper 

Danish Soup $0.0248 4.5 281.0 

Bean Croquettes 0278 3.1 295.7 

Bread 0025 .7 50.0 

Butter 0043 .2 50.0 

Tea 0015 0.0 00.0 

Sugar for Tea 0015 .8 100.0 

Luncheon Totals. . .$0.0624 9.3 776.7 

Percentage of Food Values 



5.5 


00.0 


275.5 


61.6 


77.6 


156.5 


6.5 


3.0 


40.5 


.2 


49.8 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


100.0 


73.8 


130.4 


572.5 


10 


17 


73 



Dinner 

Pork Tenderloin $0.0523 2.8 300.0 

Gravy 0062 2.2 112.5 

Esc. Pumpkin & Rice.. .0201 8.1 195.8 

Bread 0025 .7 50.0 

Butter 0043 .2 50.0 

Orange Surprise 0491 5.8 393.7 

Dinner Totals $0.1345 19.8 1102.0 

Percentage of Food Values 

Total for Day $0.2597 42.6 2461.4 

Percentage of Food Values for the Day 



72.0 


228.0 


00.0 


10.4 


70.0 


32.1 


20.4 


71.8 


103.6 


6.5 


3.0 


40.5 


.2 


49.8 


00.0 


20.0 


147.7 


226.0 


129.5 


570.3 


402.2 


12 


52 


36 


252.0 


825.4 


1384.0 


10.3 


33.5 


56.2 



108 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast 



Wt. 

Food Materials — Cost in oz. Total 

Apricots $0.0124 1.2 100.0 

Oatmeal Fritters 0033 3.7 66.6 

Powdered Sugar 0045 1.0 30.1 

Toast 0075 2.6 200.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 

Coffee 0015 0.0 00.0 

Cream for Coffee 0078 .8 50.0 

Breakfast Totals.. .$0.0457 9.8 546.7 

Percentage of Food Values 



-FOOD UNITS- 



Pkotein 

7.0 

12.0 

00.0 

26.0 

.5 

00.0 

2.5 



48.0 
8.7 



Starch & 
FAT Sugar 



3.0 
4.6 
00.0 
12.0 
99.5 
00.0 
43.0 



162.1 
29.6 



90.0 
50.0 
30.1 
162.0 
00.0 
00.0 
4.5 

336.6 
61.5 



Luncheon or Sui>per 

Salmon Timbales $0.0467 2.5 191.4 

Cream Sauce 0062 2.2 112.5 

Butter 0043 .2 50.0 

Bread 0075 2.6 200.0 

Cocoa 0265 8.2 250.0 

Luncheon Totals.. .$0.0912 15.7 803.9 
Percentage of Food Values 



58.2 


113.0 


20.2 


10.4 


70.0 


32.1 


.2 


49.8 


00.0 


26.0 


12.0 


162.0 


45.5 


131.0 


73.5 


140.3 


375.8 


287.8 


17.4 


46.7 


35.8 



Dinner 

Roast Lamb $0.0202 1.8 

Potatoes a la M. H 0183 5.9 

Carrots 0033 1.4 

Butter Sauce 0043 .2 

Bread 0075 2.6 

Butter 0087 .5 

Indian Pudding 0239 4.0 

Hard Sauce 0070 1.0 

Dinner Totals $0.0932 17.4 

Percentage of Food Values , 

Total for Day $0.2301 42.9 

Percentage of Food Values for the Day 




00.0 
99.0 
14.0 
00.0 

162.0 
00.0 

126.0 
93.0 

400.1 494.0 

39.6 49 
938.0 1118.4 

39.7 47.3 



NOVEMBER MENUS 



109 



THURSDAY 
Breakfast 



Wt. 

Food Materials — Cost in oz. Total 

Pettijohn $0.0022 3.6 100.0 

Cream for Cereal 0100 1.6 50.0 

Sugar for Cereal 0015 .8 100.0 

Poached Egg 0233 2.1 100.0 

Toast 0025 .7 50.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 

CofCee 0015 0.0 00.0 

Cream for Coffee 0078 .8 50.0 

Breakfast Totals. . .?0.0790 14.5 550.0 

Percentage of Food Values 



-FOOD units- 



Protein 

11.5 

6.0 

00.0 

32.0 

6.5 

.5 

00.0 

2.5 

59.0 
10.8 



Starch & 
Fat Sugar 



4.5 
34.5 
00.0 
68.0 

3.0 
99.5 
00.0 
43.0 



252.5 
45.9 



84.0 

9.5 

100.0 

00.0 

40.5 

00.0 

00.0 

4.5 

238.5 
43.3 



Luncheon or Supper 

Irish Stew $0.0205 4.6 175.0 

Spiced Peaches 0167 4.7 100.0 

Bread 0075 2.6 200.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 

Tea 0015 0.0 00.0 

Luncheon Totals.. ..$0.0549 12.4 575.0 
Percentage of Food Values 

Dinner 

Veal (Mock Pigeon) .. .$0.0450 4.0 154.4 

Dressing 0025 1.3 100.0 

jB2spagnole Sauce 0091 1.0 150.0 

Baked Sweet Potatoes.. .0050 3.0 100.0 

Combination Salad 0426 7.5 285.0 

Washington Pie 0178 5.2 500.0 

Bread 0025 1.3 100.0 

Butter 0043 .2 50.0 

Dinner Totals $0.1288 23.5 1439.4 

Percentage of Food Values 

Total for Day $0.2627 50.4 2564.4 

Percentage of Food Values for the Day 



28.4 


89.4 


57.2 


4.0 


2.0 


94.0 


26.0 


12.0 


162.0 


.5 


99.5 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


58.9 


202.9 


313.2 


10.2 


35.2 


54.4 



71.7 
13.0 
6.5 
11.0 
59.8 
27.0 
13.0 

O 

202.2 

14 
320.1 

12.4 



82.7 

6.0 

101.0 

1.0 

152.4 

153.0 

6.0 

49.8 



00.0 
81.0 
42.5 
88.0 
72.8 
320.0 
81.0 
00.0 



551.9 685.3 

3S.3 47.6 

1007.3 1237.0 

37.2 48.2 



110 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



FRIDAY 
Breakfast 

FOOD UNITS 

Wt. Starch & 

Food Materials — Cost in oz. Total Protein Fat Sugar 

Baked Bananas $0.0182 4.3 200.0 5.0 5.0 190.0 

Hamburg Cakes 020G 2.2 100.0 54.0 46.0 00.0 

Toast 0075 2.6 200.0 26.0 12.0 162.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 .5 99.5 00.0 

CoflEee 0015 0.0 00.0 00.0 00.0 00.0 

Cream for CoEfee 0078 .8 50.0 2.5 43.0 4.5 

Breakfast Totals.. .$0.0643 10.4 650.0 88.0 205.5 356.5 

Percentage of Food Values 13.5 31.6 54.8 



Luncheon or Supper 

Tomato & Cheese Pud- 
ding $0.0080 5.8 200.0 

Biscuits 0151 1.2 100.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 

Apricot Preserves 0100 2.4 250.0 

Tea 0015 0.0 00.0 

Luncheon Totals.. .$0.0433 9.9 650.0 

Percentage of Food Values 



46.4 


72.6 


81.0 


12.0 


7.0 


81.0 


.5 


99.5 


00.0 


3.5 


1.5 


245.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


62.4 


180.6 


407.0 


9.6 


27.7 


62.6 



Dinner 

Bouillon $0.0204 6.5 50.0 34.0 

Baked White Fish 0375 4.0 200.0 122.0 

Mashed Potatoes 0068 3.1 100.0 10.0 

Hollandaise Sauce 0101 .9 83.0 5.0 

Kohl Rabbi 0098 9.8 100.0 16.5 

Bread 0075 2.G 200.0 26.0 

Butter 00S7 .5 100.0 .5 

Baked Rice Pudding OlOG 5.2 200.0 16.0 

Sugar for Tea 0045 3.4 300.0 00.0 

Dinner Totals $0.1159 36.0 1333.0 230.0 

Percentage of Food Values 17.2 

Total for Day $0.2235 56.3 2633.0 380.4 

Percentage of Food Values for the Day 14.4 



7.0 


9.0 


78.0 


00.0 


25.0 


65.0 


72.0 


6.0 


6.0 


77.5 


12.0 


162.0 


99.5 


00.0 


26.0 


158.0 


00.0 


300.0 


325.5 


777.5 


24.4 


58.3 


711.6 


1541.0 


27.0 


88.5 



NOVEMBER MENUS 



111 



SATURDAY 
Breakfast 



Wt. 

Food Materials — Cost in oz. Total 

Farina $0.0033 .7 79.2 

Cream for Cereal 0100 1.6 50.0 

Sugar for Cereal 0015 .8 100.0 

Fish Cakes 0279 4.7 200.0 

Muffins 0118 2.0 196.3 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 

Coffee 0015 0.0 00.0 

Cream for Coffee 0078 .8 50.0 

Breakfast Totals.. .$0.0722 11.1 775.5 

Percentage of Food Values 



-FOOD units- 



Protein 
9.1 

6.0 
00.0 
56.5 
19.2 
.5 
00.0 

2.5 



Starch & 
Fat Sugar 



93.8 
12 



3.9 
34.5 
00.0 
78.5 
96.2 
99.5 
00.0 
43.0 

355.6 
45.8 



66.2 

9.5 

100.0 

65.0 

80.9 

00.0 

00.0 

4.5 

326.1 
42 



Luncheon or Supper 

Sweet Potato and Al- 
mond Croquettes $0.0193 4.6 365.0 

Brown Bread 0150 3.0 200.0 

Butter 0087 .5 100.0 

Cream Cheese 0200 1.6 200.0 

Tea 0015 0.0 00.0 

Sugar for Tea 0015 .8 100.0 

Luncheon Totals. . ..?0. 0660 10.5 965.0 
Percentage of Food Values 



33.2 
18.0 
.5 
50.0 
00.0 
00.0 

101.7 
10.5 



161.8 
14.0 
99.5 

146.0 
00.0 
00.0 

421.3 
43.6 



170.0 
168.0 

00.0 
4.0 

00.0 
100.0 

442.0 
45.S 



Dinner 

Ragout of Beef $0.0412 4.4 200.0 

Rice 0112 3.1 100.0 

Spinach Balls 0269 4.0 133.0 

Choc. Bread Pudding... .0280 5.7 367.0 

Vanilla Sauce 0075 1.2 200.0 

Bread 0025 .7 50.0 

Butter 0043 .2 50.0 

Dinner Totals $0.1216 19.3 1100.0 

Percentage of Food Values 

Total for Day $0.2598 40.9 2840.5 

Percentage of Food Values for the Day 



108.0 

10.0 

20.2 

31.6 

.2 

6.5 

.2 

176.7 

16 
372.2 

13 



92.0 

1.0 

103.9 

123.1 

49.7 

3.0 

49.7 

422.4 500.9 

38 45.5 

1199.3 1269.0 

42.4 44.3 



00.0 

89.0 

9.5 

211.9 

150.0 

40.5 

00.0 



112 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



Food Materials — Cost 

Grapefruit $0.0175 

Cornflakes 0040 

Cream 0100 

Sugar 0015 

Toast 0075 

Butter 0087 

Egg 0233 

Coffee 0015 

Cream for Coffee 0078 



Breakfast Totals. . .$0.0818 
Percentage of Food Values..,. 



SUNDAY 










Breakfast 












FOOD UNITS 




Wt. 






Starch & 


IN OZ. ' 


roTAL 


Protein 


FAT 


Sugar 


3.7 


50.0 


3.5 


2.0 


44.5 


.9 


100.0 


11.0 


1.0 


88.0 


1.6 


50.0 


6.0 


84.5 


9.5 


.8 


100.0 


00.0 


00.0 


100.0 


; 2.6 


200.0 


26.0 


12.0 


162.0 


.5 


100.0 


.5 


99.5 


00.0 


2.1 


100.0 


32,0 


68.0 


00.0 


0.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


00.0 


1 .8 


50.0 


2.5 


43.0 


4.5 


13.0 


750.0 


81.5 


260.0 


408.5 






10.8 


34.6 


54.4 



Dinner 



Stewea Chicken $0.0375 4.0 191.2 61.6 129.6 00.0 

Dumplings 0151 1.2 100.0 12.0 7.0 81.0 

Mashed Potatoes 0068 3.1 100.0 10.0 25.0 65.0 

Creamed Turnips 0097 4.5 150.0 7.0 101.5 41.5 

Cranberry Jelly 0170 3.0 300.0 1.5 6.0 292.5 

Fruit Pudding 0167 3.4 322.5 18,7 70.8 233.0 

Hard Sauce 0070 1.0 133.0 .2 39.8 93.0 

Bread 0025 1.3 100.0 13.0 6.0 81.0 

Butter 0043 .2 50.0 .2 49.8 00.0 

Dinner Totals $0.1166 21.7 1446.7 124.2 435.5 887.0 

Percentage of Food Values 8.5 30 61.3 



Supper 

Oyster Stew $0.0404 8.8 

Crackers 0070 .8 

Bread 0025 1.3 

Butter 0043 .2 

Nut Brownies 0115 1.1 

Peaches 0200 4.7 

Cocoa 0265 8.2 

Supper Totals $0.1122 25.1 

Percentage of Food Values 

Total for Day $0.3106 69 

Percentage of Food Values for the Day 



250.0 


44.0 


162.5 


43.5 


100.0 


9.4 


20.0 


70.6 


100.0 


13.0 


6.0 


81.0 


50.0 


.2 


49.7 


00.0 


157.5 


11.8 


90.3 


55.4 


100.0 


4.0 


2.0 


94.0 


250.0 


45.5 


131.0 


73.5 



1007.5 



8 3204.2 



128.0 461.5 418.0 

12.7 45.8 41.4 

333.7 1157.0 1713.5 

10.4 36.1 53.5 



LESSONS IN COOKING 113 

SUMMARY OF NOVEMBER MENUS 

— " — FOOD UNITS — 

Wt. Starch 

DATS — Cost in oz. Total Photein Fat & Sugar 

Monday $0.2675 49.0 3209.S 302.3 1045.2 1862.3 

Tuesday 2597 42.6 2461.4 252.0 825.4 1384.0 

Wednesday 2301 42.9 2358.6 302.2 938.0 1118.4 

Thursday 2627 50.4 2564.4 320.1 1007.3 1237.0 

Friday 2235 56.3 2633.0 380.4 711.6 1541.0 

Saturday 2598 40.9 2840.5 372.2 1199.3 1269.0 

Sunday 3106 69.8 3204.2 333.7 1157.0 1713.5 

Total for the Week.. $1.8139 351.9 19271.9 2262.9 6883.8 10125.2 

Average per day 2591 50.2 2753.1 323.2 983.4 1446.4 

Percentage of Food Value for the week 11.7 85.7 52.5 

It will be seen from the foregoing detailed tables and from 
the summary that, while certain of the meals are not per- 
fectly balanced, the day's menu, in all cases, comes within 
the standard set for a well balanced diet. This is all that 
is required, except in cases of illness. 

In the calculations of the November Mentis it will be 
noted that the portions served are in most cases multiples 
or fractions of 100 food units. In the following pages are 
given tables taken from the Bulletin of the School "Food 
Values,^' calculated according to this method, devised by 
Professor Irving Fisher of Yale University. From these 
tables all the succeeding menus of "Lessons in Cooking" may 
be calculated if desired. After weighing out portions of 100 
food units once, it is very easy to tell approximately how 
many food units are being served, and by brief calculation 
to find if any given diet is well balanced. Hereafter the 
approximate cost of the food served will be given for each 
week's menu, together with suggestions for reducing the 
cost, if desired. 



TABLE OF 100 FOOD UNITS 



Name of Food 



"Portion " Con- 
taining 100 Food 
Units (approx.) 



Wt. of 100 
Calories 



Per cent of 



is 



tBeef.r'nd, boiled (fat) 1099t • . 

■Beef, r'd, boiled (lean) 1206t 
■Beef, r'd, boiled (med.) IISSJ 
•Beef, 5th rib, roasted, 1538t 

"Beef, 5th rib, roasted, 1616i. 
■Beef, 5th rib, roasted, 16151. 

::Beef, ribs boiled, 1169t 

•fBeef, ribs boiled, 11701 

♦Calves foot jelly 

*Chicken, canned 

*Lamb chops, boiled, av 

*Lamb, leg, roasted 

tMutton, leg, boiled, 1184t. . . 
tPork, ham, boiled (fat) 1174t 

•j-Pork, ham, boiled, 11921 

tPork, ham, r'st'd, (fat) 1484| 
tPork, ham, r'st'd, (lean), 15111 

*Turkey, as pur., canned 

tVeal, leg, boiled, 11821 



COOKED MEATS 



Small serving. . 
Large serving . . 
Small serving . . 
Half serving. . . 
Small serving . . 
Very small s'v'g 
Small serving . . 
Very small s'v'g 



One thin slice.. . 
One small chop 
Ord. serving . . . 
Large serving . . 
Small serving. . 
Ord. serving . . . 
Small serving . . 
Small serving . . 
Small serving . , 
Large serving . . 



36 


1.3 


40 


60 


00 


62 


2.2 


90 


10 


00 


44 


1.6 


60 


40 


00 


18.5 


.65 


12 


88 


00 


32 


1.2 


25 


75 


00 


25 


.88 


18 


82 


00 


30 


1.1 


27 


73 


00 


25 


.87 


21 


79 


00 


12 


4. 


19 


00 


81 


27 


.96 


23 


77 


00 


27 


.96 


24 


76 


00 


50 


1.8 


40 


60 


00 


34 


1.2 


35 


65 


00 


20.5 


.73 


14 


86 


00 


32.5 


1.1 


28 


72 


00 


27 


.96 


19 


81 


00 


34 


1.2 


83 


67 


00 


28 


.99 


23 


77 


00 


67.5 


2.4 


73 


27 


00 



UNCOOKED MEATS, EDIBLE PORTION 



*Beef, loin, av. (lean) 

*Beef, loin, av. (fat) 

""Beef, loin, p'house steak, av.. 
*Beef, loin, sirloin steak, av. . . 

*Beef, ribs, lean, av 

*Beef, round, lean, av 

*Beef, tongue, average 

*Beef, juice 

*Chicken (broilers), av 

*Clams, r'nd in shell, av 

*Cod, whole 

*Goose (young) av 

♦Halibut steaks, av 

*Liver (veal) av 

♦Lobster, whole, av 

♦Mackerel (Span.), whole, av. 
♦Mutton leg, hind, lean, av... . 

♦Oysters, in shell, av 

♦Pork, loin chops, av 

♦Pork, ham, lean, av 

♦Pork, bacon, med. fat, av. ... 

♦Salmon (Cal.), average 

Shad . whole, average 

*Trout, brook, whole, av 

*Turkey. average 



Ord. serving... 
Small serving 
Small steak . . 
Small steak . . 
Ord. serving . 
Ord. serving. 
Ord. serving . , 



Large serving . . 
Twelve to 16... 
Two servings . . . 
Half serving . . . 
Ord. serving . . . 
Two small s'v'g 
Two servings. . . 
Ord. serving . . . 
Ord. serving . ... 

One dozen 

Very small s'v'g 
Small serving . . 
Small serving . . 
Small serving . . 
Ord. serving . . . 
Two small s'v'g 
Two BmaU s'v'g 

114 



50 
30 
36 
40 
52 
63 
62 

395 
90 

210 

138 
25 
81 
79 

117 
57 
50 

193 
27 
36 
15 
42 
60 

100 
33 



1.8 
1.1 



1.3 
1.4 
1.8 
2.2 
2.2 
14. 
3.2 
7.4 
4.9 

.88 
2.8 
2.8 
4.1 
2. 
1.8 
6.8 

.97 
1.3 

.53 
1.5 
2.1 
3.6 
1.2 



40 
22 
32 
31 
42 
54 
47 
78 
79 
56 
95 
16 
61 
61 
78 
50 
41 
49 
18 
29 
6 
30 
46 
80 
29 



60 
78 
68 
69 
58 
46 
53 
22 
21 
8 
5 
84 
39 
39 
20 
50 
59 
22 
82 
71 
94 
70 
54 
20 
71 



00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
36 
00 
00 
00 
00 
2 
00 
00 
29 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 



Wt. of 100 „ . , 
Calories Per cent of 
"Portion" Con- 
Name of Food taining 100 Food „ ■^ ,B 

TInit.a fnnnrmr /> H lU 9 * 



Units (approx.) 



^ i? t. 05 c3 >. 

O O Ph fe O^ 



VEGETABLES 

♦Artichokes, av. canned 430 15 14 86 

♦Asparagus, av. canned 540 19 33 5 62 

♦Asparagus, av. cooked 206 7.19 18 63 19 

♦Beans, baked, canned Small aide dish . 75 2 66 21 18 61 

♦Beans, Lima, canned Large side dish. 126 4.44 21 4 75 

♦Beans, string, cooked Five servings. . . 480 16.66 15 48 37 

♦Beets edible portion, cooked. Three servings . 245 8.7 2 23 75 

♦Cabbage, edible portion 310 11 20 8 72 

♦Carrots, edible pt., fresh 215 7.6 10 8 82 

Carrots, cooked Two servings. . 164 5.81 10 34 56 

♦Cauliaower, as purchased 312 11 23 15 62 

♦Celery, edible portion 540 19 24 5 71 

Corn, sweet, cooked One side dish . . 99 3.5 13 10 77 

♦Cucumbers, edible pt 565 20 18 10 72 

♦Egg plant, edible pt 350 12 17 10 73 

Lentils, cooked 89 3 . 15 27 1 72 

♦Lettuce, edible pt 505 18 25 14 61 

♦Mushrooms, as purchased 215 7.6 31 8 61 

♦Onions, fresh, edible pt 200 7.1 13 5 82 

♦Onions, cooked Two large s'v'gs 240 8.4 12 40 48 

♦Parsnips, edible pt Unserving.... 152 5.3 10 7 83 

Parsnips, cooked 163 5.84 10 34 56 

♦Peas, green, canned Two servings .. . 178 6.3 25 3 72 

♦Peas, green, cooked One serving. .. . 85 3 23 27 50 

Potatoes, baked One good sized . 86 3.05 11 1 88 

♦Potatoes, boiled One large sized. 102 3 . 62 11 1 88 

♦Potatoes, mashed (creamed). One serving. .. . 89 3.14 10 25 65 

Potatoes, steamed One serving. .. . 101 3.57 11 1 88 

♦Potatoes, chips One-half s'v'g. . 17 .6 4 63 33 

♦Potatoes, sweet, cooked Half av. potato. 49 1.7 6 9 85 

♦Pumkpins, edible pt 380 13 15 4 81 

Radishes, as purchased 480 17 18 3 79 

Rhubarb, edible, pt 430 15 10 27 63 

♦Spinach, cooked Two ord. s'v'g. . 174 6.1 15 66 19 

Squash, edible pt 210 7.4 12 10 78 

♦Succotash, canned Ord. serving .. . 100 3.5 15 9 67 

♦Tomatoes, fresh as purchased Four av 430 15 15 16 69 

Tomatoes, canned 431 15.2 21 7 72 

♦Turnips, edible pt Two large s'v'g 246 8.7 13 4 83 

Vegetable oysters 273 9.62 10 51 39 

FRUITS (DRIED) 

♦Apples, aa purchased 34 1.2 3 7 90 

Apricots, aa purchased 35 1 .24 7 3 90 

♦Dates, edible portion Three large ... . 28 .99 2 7 91 

♦Dates, as purchased 31 1.1 2 7 91 

♦Figs, edible portion One large 31 1.1 5 95 

♦Prunes, edible portion Three large. ... 32 1.14 3 97 

♦Prunes, as purchased 38 1 .35 3 97 

♦Raisins, edible portion 28 1. 3 9 88 

*Raisias. aa purchased 31 1.1 3 9 88 



115 



Name of Food 



" Portion " Con- 
taining 100 Food 
Units (approx.) 



Wt. of 100 
Calories 



Per c«nt of 

6 09 



FRUITS (FRESH OR COOKED) 

♦Apples, 33 purchased Two apples. . . . 206 

Apples, baked 94 

Apples, sauce Ord. serving. . . Ill 

♦Apricots, edible pt 168 

Apricots, cooked Large serving. . 131 

♦Bananas, edible pt One large 100 

♦Blackberries 170 

Blueberries 128 

♦Blueberries, canned 165 

Cantaloupe Half or. serv'g . 243 

♦Cherries, edible portion 124 

♦Cranberries, as purchased 210 

♦Grapes, as purchased av 136 

Grape fruit 215 

Grape juice Small glass 120 

Gooseberrries 261 

jjjLemons 215 

Lemon juice 246 

Nectarines 147 

Olives, ripe About seven ... 37 

Oranges, as purchased, av.... One very large. 270 

♦Oranges, juice Large glass. . . . 188 

Peaches, as purchased av. . . . Three ordinary . 290 

*Peaehes, sauce Ord. serving. . . 136 

Peaches, juice Ordinary glass . 136 

Pears One large pear. 173 

♦Pears, sauce 113 

Pineapples, edible p't'n, av 226 

♦Raspberries, black 146 

Raspberries, red 178 

Strawberries, av Two servings . . . 260 

♦Watermelon, av 760 



7.3 

3 3 

3 9 

5.92 

4.61 

3 5 

5.9 

4.6 

5.8 

8.6 

4.4 

7.5 

4.8 

7.57 

4.2 

9.2 

7.57 

8.77 

5.18 

1.31 

9.4 

6.62 

10. 
4.78 
4.80 
5.40 
3.98 
8. 

5.18 
6.29 
9.1 

27. 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 

♦Butter Ordinary pat. . . 12.5 .44 

♦Buttermilk 1 H glass 275 9.7 

♦Cheese, Am., pale 1}4 cubic in. . . . 22 . 77 

♦Cheese, cottage 4 cubic in. . . . 89 3.12 

♦Cheese, fuU cream 114 cubic in. . . . 23 .82 

♦Cheese, Neuf chatel IH cubic in. . . . 29 . 5 1 . 05 

♦Cheese, Swiss 114 cubic in. . . . 23 .8 

♦Cheese, pineapple 1 }^ cubic in. .. . 20 .72 

♦Cream H ord. glass . . 49 1.7 

Kumyss 188 6.7 

♦Milk, condensed, sweetened 30 1 . 06 

♦Milk, condensed, unsweet'd 59 2.05 

♦Milk, skimmed 1 H glass 255 9 . 4 

♦Milk, whole Small glass 140 4.9 

Milk, human, 2nd week 162 6.7 

Milk, human, 3rd month 171 6 

♦Whey Two glasses 360 13 

116 



3 
2 
2 
8 
6 
5 
9 
3 
4 
6 
5 
3 
5 
7 

5 
9 

4 
2 
6 

7 
4 

4 
3 
4 

10 
8 

10 
6 



34 
25 
76 
25 
22 
25 
25 

5 
21 
10 
24 
37 
19 
11 

7 
15 



7 
5 
5 


5 

16 
8 
9 


10 

12 

15 
4 



14 



91 
3 

2 
2 

7 
4 
6 

14 


15 
6 



99.5 

12 

73 

8 
73 
76 
74 
73 
86 
37 
23 
50 

7 
52 
47 
46 
10 



90 
93 
93 
92 
94 
SO 
75 
89 
87 
94 
85 
85 
80 
89 

100 
95 
77 

100 

96 

7 

91 

100 
91 
94 

100 
89 
93 
90 
76 
92 
75 
88 



00 

54 

2 

16 

2 

2 

1 

2 

9 

42 

67 

26 

56 

29 

42 

47 

76 






Name of Food 



'"' Portion " Con- 
taining 100 Food 
Units (approx.) 



Wt.of 100 
Calories 



O 



Per cent of 



CAKES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND 

*Cake, chocolate layer Half ord. sq. pc 28 

*Cake, gingerbread Half ord. sq. pc 27 

Cake, sponge Small piece .... 25 

Custard, caramel 71 

Custard, milk Ordinary cup . . 122 

Custard, tapioca Two-thirds ord. 69. 

*Doughnuts Half a doughn't 23 

*Lady fingers Two 27 

♦Macaroons Four 23 

*Pie, apple One third piece 38 

*Pie, cream One-fourth pc. . 30 

*Pie, custard One-third piece 55 

*Pie, lemon One-third piece 38 

*Pie, mince One-fourth pc. . 35 

*Pie, squash One-third piece 55 

Pudding, apple sago 81 

Pudding, brown betty Half ord. s'v'g . 56. 

Pudding, cream rice Very small s'v'g 75 

Pudding, Indian meal Half ord. ser'g. . 56. 

Pudding, apple tapioca Small serving . . 79 

Tapioca, cooked Ord. serving . . . 108 



DESSERTS 



.98 

.96 

.89 

2.51 



.95 

.82 

.3 

.1 

.9 

.35 

.2 

.9 

.02 



1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

3. 

2. 

2,65 

2. 

2.8 

3.85 



7 
6 
7 

19 

26 
9 
6 

10 
6 
5 
5 
9 
6 
8 

10 
6 
7 
8 

12 
1 
1 



22 
23 
25 
10 
56 
12 
45 
12 
33 
32 
32 
32 
36 
38 
42 
3 
12 
13 
25 
1 
1 



71 
71 
68 
71 
18 
79 
49 
78 
61 
63 
63 
59 
58 
54 
48 
91 
81 
79 
63 
98 
98 



SWEETS AND PICKLES 

♦Catsup, tomato, av 170 6. 10 3 

Candy, plain 26 .9 

Candy, chocxjlate 30 1.1 1 4 

♦Honey Four teasp'ns. .30 1 .05 1 

♦Marmalade (orange) 28.3 1 .5 2.5 

♦Molasses, cane 35 1.2 .5 

♦Olives, green edible portion . .Five to seven. .32 1.1 1 84 

♦Olives, ripe, edibla portion .. .Five to seven. . 38 1.3 2 91 

♦Pickles, mixed 415 14.6 18 15 

♦Sugar, granulated Three heaping tsp 

or 1}^ lumps. 24 .86 

♦Sugar, maple Four teaspoons 29 1 . 03 

♦Syrup, maple Four teaspoons 35 1.2 



87 
100 
95 
99 
97 

99.5 
15 
7 
67 

100 
100 
100 



NUTS, EDIBLE PORTION 

♦Almond3,av Eight to 15 15 .53 13 77 10 

♦Beechnuts 14.8 .52 13 79 8 

♦Brazil Nuts Three ord. size. 14 . 49 10 86 4 

♦Butternuts 14 .50 16 82 2 

♦Cocoanuts 16 .57 4 77 19 

♦Chestnuts, fresh, av 40 1.4 10 20 70 

♦Filberts, av Ten nuts 14 .48 9 84 7 

♦Hickory nuts 13 .47 9 85 6 

♦Peanuts, av Thirteen double 18 .62 20 63 17 

♦Pecans, polished About eight 13 .46 6 87 7 

♦Pine nuts, (pignolias) About eighty. . . 16 ,56 22 74 4 

♦Walnuts, California About six 14 .48 10 83 7 

117 



Name of Food 



" Portion " Con- 
taining 100 Food 
Units (approx.) 



Wt. of 100 
Calories 



Per cent of 



■e-s 



♦Bread, brown, average 

♦Bread, corn ( johnnycake) av. . 

*Bread, white, home made. . . 

♦Cookies, sugar 

Corn flakes, toasted 

*Corn meal, granular, av 

Corn meal, unbolted, av 

♦Crackers, graham 

♦Crackers, oatmeal 

♦Crackers, soda 

♦Hominy, cooked 

♦Macaroni, av 

♦Macaroni, cooked 

♦Oatmeal, boiled 

♦Popcorn, 

♦Rice, uncooked 

♦Rice, boiled 

♦Rice, flakes 

♦Rolls, Vienna, av 

♦Shredded wheat 

♦Spaghetti, average 

♦Wafers, vanilla 

♦Wheat, flour, e't'e w'h't, av.. 

♦Wheat, flour, graham, av.. . . 

♦Wheat, flour, patent, family 
and straight grade spring 
wheat, av 

♦Zweiback 



43 
38 
38 
24 
27 
27 



CEREALS 

Ord. thick slice. 
Small square. ... 
Ord. thick slice 

Two 

Ord. cer. dish f'l 
2% level tbsp.. 

Three tbsp 26 

Two crackers. . 23 
Two crackers . . 23 
3% "Uneedas" 24 
Large serving. . 120 
27 
110 
159 
24 
28 
87 
27 
35 
27 

28 

Four 24 

Four tbsp 27 

4^ tbsp 27 



Four tbsp 27 

Size of thick slice 
of bread 23 



Ord. serying. 
1 3-2 serving. . 



Ord. cereal dish 
Ord. cereal dish. 
One large roll. . 
One biscuit. . . . 



1.5 

1.3 

1.3 
.83 
.97 
.96 
.92 
.82 
.81 
.83 

4.2 
.96 

3.85 

5.6 
.86 
.98 

3.1 
.94 

1.2 
.94 
.97 
.84 
.96 
.96 



.97 
.81 



9 
12 
13 

7 
11 
10 

9. 



15 
14 
18 
11 

9 
10 

8 
12 
13 
12 

8 
16 
15 



12 



7 
16 

6 
22 

1 

5 
11. 



9.5 20.5 

11 24 

9.4 20 

11 2 



2 
15 



4.5 
1 
13 
5 
5 



21 



84 

72 

81 

71 

88 

85 

80 

70 

65 

70.6 

87 

83 

71 

75 

78 

90 

89 

91 

81 

82.6 

87 

71 

80 

80 



85 
70 



MISCELLANEOUS 

♦Eggs, hen's boiled One large egg.. 59 2.1 32 68 00 

♦Eggs, hen's whites Of six eggs 181 6.4 100 00 

♦Eggs, hen's yolks Two yolks 27 .94 17 83 00 

♦Omelet 94 3.3 34 60 6 

♦Soup, beef, av 380 13 . 69 14 17 

♦Soup, bean, av Very large plate 150 5.4 20 20 60 

♦Soup, cream of celery Two plates 180 6.3 16 47 37 

♦Consomme 830 29. 85 00 15 

♦Clam chowder Two plates 230 8.25 17 18 65 

♦Chocolate, bitter Half-a-square. . . 16 .56 8 72 20 

♦Cocoa 20 .69 17 53 30 

Ice Cream (Phila) Half serving 45 1.6 5 57 38 

Ice Cream (New York) Half serving .... 48 1.7 7 47 46 

♦Chemical Composition of American Food Materials, Atwater and Bryant, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture Bull. No. 28. 

tExperiments on Losses in Cooking Meats. (1900-03), Grindley, U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture Bull. No. 141. 

tLaboratorv number of specimen, as per Experiments on Losses in Cooking Meat. 

118 



DECEMBER MENUS 




A TWO-STORY KITCHEN TABLE ON ROLLERS 

Made from an Old Fashioned Wash Stand with Zinc Covered Top and 

Hool<s for Utensils 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

PART IV 



CANDY MAKING 

Candies can be classed according to the different stages 
of sugar cookery into "soft ball," "hard ball," "crack," and 
"hard crack." (A candy thermometer may be purchased 
through the School for $1.50.) 
Soft Ball 

The sugar and water are boiled together until when 
dropped into cold water it forms a soft ball. Temperature 
238° F. Example, — fondant. 
Hard Ball 

Instead of a soft ball the portion dropped into cold water 
should form a firm hard ball. Temperature 254° F. Ex- 
ample, — caramels. 
Crack Stage 

The portion instead of forming a ball becomes snappy 
and brittle. Temperature 26o°-275° F. Example, — taffies. 
Hard Crack 

As soon as dropped into cold water the portion becomes 
very hard and brittle. Temperature 290° F. Example, — 
peanut candy. 
Caramelization 

When the sugar has been cooked beyond the hard crack 
stage it gradually changes color, from light yellow to deep 
brown and finally a deep red. The temperature varies from 
300° to 350° F. When a light golden brown it is used for 
flavoring in custards, ice-cream, etc. When it has reached 
the dark red stage it has lost its sweetness and is then used 
to color gravies, soups, etc. 

Soft Ball Candies 
Plain Fondant 

Boil without stirring, 5 c sugar, 2>4 c water and >4 t 
cream of tartar to the soft ball stage. Make a swab by 
wrapping a fork with a piece of linen, dip in hot water 
and wipe the crystals from the sides of the pan as soon as 

Copyright, 1911, by Home Economics Association. 

117 



118 LESSONS IN COOKING 

they form. This will prevent crystallization. Covering the 
pan the first lo m of cooking also tends to prevent forma- 
tion of crystals. 

Remove from the fire, let stand until cool, then beat until 
creamy. Turn out onto a marble slab or large platter and 
knead until free from all lumps and soft and velvety in 
texture. It is better after standing 24 h in a covered jar. 

Note : On a damp day the fondant should be cooked to 
240° F. instead of 238° F. The former temperature is more 
satisfactory also when the fondant is to be used at once. 

Chocolate Fondant 

Add 3 ounces grated chocolate to the above recipe for 
Plain Fondant and proceed as above. 

Coffee Fondant 

Make i^ c strong coffee, strain and add 5 c sugar and 
y2 t cream of tartar, and proceed as for Plain Fondant. 

Maple Fondant 

Break i}i \h maple sugar into pieces. Add 3 c white 
sugar, I c hot water and ^ t cream of tartar. Proceed as 
for Plain Fondant. 
Cream Mints 

Melt I lb Plain Fondant over hot water. Flavor with 3 
drops either oil of peppermint, wintergreen, clove, cinna- 
mon, or orange. Color if desired. Drop from the tip of 
a teaspoon onto oiled paper. 
Fruit and Nut Loaf 

Into 2 c Plain or Maple Fondant work % c each chopped 
pecans, candied pineapple, and cherries. Different com- 
binations of fruit and nuts may be used. Roll in oiled paper 
and mould in a tin box. If no box is available, shape as 
desired, and roll in oiled paper. 
Neapolitan Creams 

Put together Coffee, Maple and Plain Fondant, the lat- 
ter colored if desired, in alternate layers. Chopped fruit, 
nuts and cocoanut may be mixed with the different layers. 
Cut in slices. 
Chocolate Creams 

Mould Fondant into any shape desired. Let stand in a 
cool place until firm. 



DECEMBEB MENUS 119 

Melt plain or confectioner's chocolate over hot water. 
Lay each cream on a fork, dip into the chocolate and slide 
onto oiled paper, 
Bon Bens 

Mould Plain Fondant, flavored and colored as desired, 
into different shapes, placing halves of nuts or pieces of 
cherries, pineapple, dates, figs, etc., on top or inside. 

Remove the seeds from dates and fill the cavity thus made 
with a small roll of Fondant. Figs also can be used in the 
same way, filling the fig and slicing across. 
Chocolate Fudge 

Boil togethcx- 2 c sugar, 2 ounces chocolate, and 2/3 c 
milk to the soft ball stage (238° F.) ; remove from the fire 
and add i T butter. When cool add i t vanilla and stir 
until the mixture begins to stiffen. Pour quickly into a 
buttered pan and cut into squares. Nuts may be added if 
desired. 

Note : Sweet or sour cream may be used in place of the 
milk and butter. 
Penocha 

Boil together 2 c light brown sugar and 2/3 c milk to 
the soft ball stage (238° F.). Remove from the fire, add 

1 T butter and when cool ^ c nuts, and proceed as in 
Chocolate Fudge. 

Hard Ball Candies 
Caramels 

Boil together 4 c sugar, 3 T glucose and i c water to the 
hard ball stage (254° F.). Add i c of cream and boil until 
it again reaches the hard ball stage. The cream thins the 
mixture so that this additional boiling is necessary. Just 
before removing from the fire add 2 t vanilla, pour into a 
greased pan and when cool cut into squares. If desired, 

2 c of nut meats may be added just before pouring out. 
For Chocolate Caramels add 4 ounces chocolate and pro- 
ceed as above. 

Crack Candies 
White Taffy 

Boil together without stirring 3 c sugar, ^ c water, % t 
cream of tartar, and ^4 T vinegar, to the brittle stage (270^ 
F.). Pour into buttered plates and when cool enough to 



120 LESSONS IN COOKING 

handle pull until white and glossy, adding any flavoring 
desired while pulling. Pull out into a long thin strip and 
cut immediately with the scissors into pieces about i inch 
long. Lay on buttered paper. 
Brown Taffy 

Boil together without stirring 2 c light brown sugar, 2 T 
butter, 2 T molasses, 4 T water and 2 T vinegar to the 
brittle stage (270° F.). Pour into buttered plates and pro- 
ceed as in White Taffy. 
Divinity Candy 

Boil together 3 c sugar, i c corn syrup and ^ c water 
to the crack stage (270° F.). Pour over the beaten whites 
of 3 eggs and beat rapidly. As it thickens add i t vanilla 
and I c chopped nuts. Pour onto a greased plate and cut 
into squares, or mould in a box lined with oiled paper. 
Popcorn Balls 

Make a syrup of 2 c sugar, i/< c water and ^ c molasses. 
Cook to the crack stage (270° F.), Pour over freshly 
popped corn and form into balls as soon as possible. 

Hard Crack Candies 
Peanut Candy 

Boil together 2 c sugar, ^ c water and i c unroasted 
peanuts to the hard crack stage (290° F.), or until a golden 
brown. Pour at once into a buttered pan. 
Peanut Brittle 

Make as above, adding % t soda just before pouring out. 

Sweetmeats 
Parisian Sweets 

Put through the meat grinder equal portions of figs, 
dates and English walnuts. Knead well with confectioner's 
sugar until it is not sticky. Roll out to ^ inch thickness, 
cut in squares, rounds or diamonds, dip in confectioner's 
sugar and lay in layers between oiled paper or in tin boxes. 
These will keep for weeks. A little lemon juice worked in 
while kneading improves the flavor. 

Stuffed Dates 

Cut dates lengthwise, remove the seeds and fill with nuts. 
Roll in granulated sugar. 



DECEMBEE MENUS 121 

Macaroons 

Work together ^ lb almond paste and i c powdered 
sugar. Then add gradually the whites of 3 eggs until the 
mixture is perfectly smooth. Shape with a pastry bag and 
tube onto a tin sheet covered with oiled paper i inch apart. 
Bake 15 m in a slow oven. After removing from the oven 
invert the paper and rub over with a cold wet cloth, when 
the macaroons will easily slip off. 

Fifteen minutes' baking will make a soft macaroon, 
twenty minutes' a brittle one. 

If no pastry bag is at hand, drop from the tip of a spoon. 

DECEMBER MENUS 

Monday Lesson 65 

BREAKFAST 

CORNMEAL MUSH 

COUNTRY SAUSAGE AND FRIED APPLES 

MUFFINS COFFEE 

Cornmeal Mush 

Add ^ t salt to 6 c water, and when boiling very slowly 
sprinkle into it i^ c cornmeal, stirring all the time; boil 
rapidly for 10 m, then put the kettle over hot water and 
cook at least 2 h, longer if possible. Serve warm with cream 
and sugar, or sugar and butter, or butter alone, as desired. 
Country Sausage 

Cover the sausage, pricked in every part with a fork, with 
boiling w^ater, let simmer 15 m, then drain and brown in 
the oven, or on top the stove. 
Fried Apples 

Melt 2 T butter in a frying pan, add 3 tart apples sliced 
very thin, and }i c sugar. Cover the pan and cook until 
the apples are tender and brown. Place the sausage in the 
center of the dish with the apples around it. 
Muffins 

2 c flour, ^ t salt, 4 t baking powder, 2 T sugar, i egg, 
1% c milk and 2 T melted butter. For directions, see Les- 
son 4, page 17. 

Preparing the Meal 

The cornmeal should be cooked the day before or over- 
night in the fireless cooker, and reheated in the morning-. 



122 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Make the muffins, and while baking prepare and fry the 
apples. Cover the sausages with hot water and put on the 
stove to simmer. Make the coffee. 

Now brown the sausages, lower the flame, and place 
where they will keep hot while the cereal is being eaten. 
Do likewise with the apples. If the muffins are done, turn 
out the fire and leave in the oven unless already too brown. 

After breakfast cook the potatoes and the pumpkin that 
are to be used for the dinner. Then cook the figs and make 
the gelatine dessert. Also, pare and slice the Qgg plant for 
lunch, and place with a weight to drain. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Monday Lesson 66 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP — CROUTONS 

FRIED EGG PLANT BREAD AND BUTTER 

TEA 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Cut I bunch of celery into small pieces and cook until 
tender in i pint of boiling water. Add y2 t salt and mash 
in the water in which it was cooked. 

While the celery is cooking, melt 2 T butter in the upper 
part of the double boiler, add 2 T flour, and when well 
blended add slowly, mixing all the time, 2 c milk. Boil a 
few minutes and then set over hot water. When the celery 
is cooked and mashed add to the mixture in the double 
boiler. Strain, reheat and serve with croutons. 

Pried Egg Plant 

Remove the skin and cut the plant into slices ^ inch 
thick. Sprinkle the slices with salt, pile one above another, 
and set a plate holding a weight upon the top. Let stand 
an hour to drain off the juice. If more salt has been added 
than is necessary for seasoning, rinse in cold water, dry 
between clean towels, dip in egg, then in breadcrumbs, and 
saute first on one side, then the other, to a golden brown. 
Use about 2 T butter to begin the sauteing, adding more 
from time to time as necessary. 

Croutons 

Brown cubes of stale bread in a little butter, or see Les- 
son 2, page 13. 



DECEMBER MENUS 123 

Preparing the Meal 

About }^ h before lunch time wash and cut up the celery, 
cover with boiling water and cook. 

Drain the slices of egg plant, dip in egg, then in crumbs, 
and start to saute them. While cooking make the White 
Sauce for the soup, also the croutons. Add the celery to 
the White Sauce, strain, reheat, and serve. 

Place the egg plant where it will keep hot while the soup 
is being eaten. Make the tea. 

Serve the soup, then the rest of the luncheon. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 67 

BOILED HAM 

CREAMED POTATOES PUMPKIN TIMBALE 

JELLIED FIGS WITH CREAM 

Boiled Ham 

Let the ham soak several hours or overnight after scrap- 
ing and thoroughly scrubbing with a brush. To cook, cover 
with cold water, bring slowly to the boiling point, let boil 
a few minutes, then skim and simmer several hours, allow- 
ing 25 m to the pound. When tender set aside to partially 
cool in the liquid, then remove, draw off the skin, brush over 
with beaten yolk of egg, diluted with milk, sprinkle with 
sugar and cracker crumbs, mixed together, about % c oi 
each for 5 lbs of ham, and set in the oven to brown. Gar- 
nish the dish with parsley. 

Pumpkin Timbale 

To I pint of mashed pumpkin add the yolks of 2 eggs, 
well beaten, i t salt, and a dash of pepper. Mix well, cut 
and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the 2 eggs, then fill 
custard or timbale cups. Stand in a baking pan of hot 
water, and bake in a moderate oven 20 m, or until firm. 
When done turn carefully from the cups and serve at once. 

Jellied Figs 

Wash 8 whole figs and cook in boiling water until the 
skin is tender. Drain the figs from the liquid of which 
there should be ^ c. Soften ^ ounce gelatine in 2 T 
cold water, then dissolve in the hot liquid from the figs. 
Add 54 c sugar, stir until dissolved and cooled somewhat, 



124 LESSONS IN COOKING 

then add the juice of 3/2 lemon, % c orange juice and strain 
into a shallow dish. When firm cut into cubes. 

Whip 5^ c double cream until very stiff, adding 2 T 
powdered sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Place the figs 
in the center of a serving dish and surround with the 
whipped cream and the cubes of jelly, alternating cream 
and jelly. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cube i^ c plain boiled potatoes. Reheat in i c medium 
White Sauce. For directions see Lesson 12 — p. 25. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 2^ h before dinner time put the ham on to 
cook. Two hours later make the pumpkin timbales, the 
pumpkin having been cooked in the morning, and put them 
in the oven. Remove the ham from the liquid and after 
brushing over with egg and crumbs put in the oven to 
brown. 

Whip the cream and when stiff set aside in a cool 
place until needed. Then make the White Sauce for the 
potatoes, and while cooking dice the potatoes, add to the 
sauce and reheat. 

Cut the gelatine into cubes and arrange the jelly, figs 
and cream in a serving dish. Put the ham on a hot platter, 
turn the timbales out for serving, pour the potatoes into a 
hot vegetable dish, and serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 68 

SHREDDED WHEAT AND PEACHES 

WITH CREAM AND SUGAR 

FRIED CORN MEAL MUSH SYRUP 

TOAST COFFEE 

Shredded Wheat and Peaches 

On the top of Shredded Wheat Biscuits lay slices of 
canned peaches and serve with sugar and cream. 

Fried Cornmeal Mush 

Turn the mush from the mould where it was placed the 
preceding morning, slice ^-inch thick or a little less, dust 



DECEMBEB MENUS 125 

with flour and saute in butter until a golden brown on 
both sides. Or roll in egg and ciumbs and fry in deep 
fat. 

Plenty of time must be allowed for frying mush as it 
does not brown quickly. Probably ^ h will be required 
to fry a panful for a family of four. 
Dry Toast 

Brown slices of stale bread and serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the mush for sauteing or frying. Have the fat 
in the pan hot and while the mush is browning make the 
coffee and toast and serve the cereal. Then serve the rest 
of the breakfast. 

After breakfast, cook the rice for the croquettes for 
dinner. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 69 

HAM OMELET — TOMATO SAUCE 

HOT BISCUITS RASPBERRY JAM 

TEA 

Ham Omelet 

Grind enough ham left from dinner the preceding even- 
ing to make about }i c. Put 4 t butter in a frying pan and 
while melting separate the whites and yolks of 4 eggs ; then 
beat the whites until very stiff. 

To the yolks add Vz t salt, dash of pepper, and beat with 
a fork until light and creamy. Carefully and gradually add 
% c hot water to the yolks, stirring all the time, then the 
chopped ham. Cut and fold the entire mixture into the 
whites, pour into the frying pan containing the melted but- 
ter, cover closely and place over a low flame. When 
puffed and nicely browned on one side set in the oven to 
dry off. Fold and turn onto a hot platter, and pour the 
Tomato Sauce around it. 
Tomato Sauce 

Melt 2 T butter in a saucepan, add 2 T flour and mix 
well. When blended add i c strained tomatoes, pouring 
the liquid in gradually so as to mix smoothly with the 
flour. Add 5^ t salt, }i t mace and i t finely chopped 
onion. Return to the fire, cook, stirring constantly until 



126 LESSONS IN COOKING 

the mixture thickens; boil 2 or 3 m. Strain around the 
omelet. 

Biscuits 

Two c flour, 4 t baking powder, 3^ t salt, i T shortening, 
about ^ c milk. For directions see page 24 or 78. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3^ h before lunch time make the biscuits using 
once and a half the recipe. Reserve ^ of the dough for 
the veal pot pie for dinner, keeping in a cold place until 
needed. 

Make the omelet and when in the pan, make the tomato 
sauce. When done set to one side until the omelet is fin- 
ished, then make the tea. Serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Tuesday Lesson 70 

VEAL POT PIE 

MASHED POTATOES SUCCOTASH 

SWEET RICE CROQUETTES 

Veal Pot Pie 

Wipe a piece of veal from the shoulder and cut it into 
pieces for serving; add 3^-inch strip of salt pork or bacon 
for each piece of veal, cover with cold water, put over the 
fire and bring quickly to the boiling point. Boil 5 m, skim 
and let simmer until the meat is tender. If one possesses 
a "fireless cooker" place the meat in the cooker after boil- 
ing about 10 m, and leave for 2 or 3 h. 

When tender add salt and pepper to season, cut the 
biscuit dough left from luncheon into small rounds and 
place on top of the stew. Cook 10 m without lifting the 
cover. Serve the meat in the center of the platter, sur- 
rounded by the dumplings. Pour the gravy over the whole. 

Succotash 

Place the contents of a can of succotash in a saucepan, 
add yi t salt, dash of pepper, add 2 T butter. Place over 
the fire and when hot serve. Or to >^ can corn add i c 
cooked lima beans, and proceed as above. 
Sweet Rice Croquettes 

Cook Yz c rice, blanched and salted, in i>^ c milk, until 



DECEMBER MENUS 127 

tender and dry ; add 2 egg yolks, 2 T each of butter, sugar, 
whipped cream and candied orange peel, shredded fine. 
When cool form into peach shapes, or any form desired, 
dip in egg, then crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Serve plain, 
or with fruit syrup, or with fruit, fresh or preserved. 

Mashed Potatoes 

For 8 potatoes use 3 T butter, y^ c cream or milk, and 
^2 t salt. For directions see Lesson 3, page 15. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 2 h before dinner start the meat cooking. An hour 
and a half after this wash and pare the potatoes and put 
on to cook in boiling salted water. 

Make the croquettes, shape, egg and crumb them. When 
the potatoes are nearly done, heat the fat for frying the 
croquettes. Cook the succotash adding the seasonings be- 
fore heating. 

Put the dumplings into the stew, and while they are cook- 
ing fry the croquettes, draining them on brown paper. 

Serve the dinner, then the dessert on small fruit plates, 
with fruit syrup, or fruit as desired and convenient. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 71 

ORANGES 

CREAMED CODFISH POTATO CAKES 

RYE MUFFINS COFFEE 

Creamed Codfish 

Wash y2 pound salt codfish ; cover with cold water and 
soak it over night. Next morning pick it apart ; cover with 
boiling water and cook slowly about 10 m. Drain again. 

If not soaked over night put on in cold water and slow- 
ly bring it to the boiling point changing the water 2 or 3 
times if necessary. 

Place 2 T butter in a saucepan, and when melted add 2 
T flour, mix until smooth, then add 2 c milk. Stir over 
the fire until boiling, add the codfish and season with 
pepper to taste. Place the mixture over hot water for 
15 or 20 m. Just before serving add i well beaten egg, 
cook I m longer, then serve either plain or on toast. 
Potato Cakes 

To 15^ c cold mashed potatoes add i well beaten egg. 



128 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Mix thoroughly and shape into round flat cakes about }i 
inch thick. Saute in about 2 T butter or bacon fat until 
golden brown on both sides. 
Rye Muffins 

Separate the yolks and whites of 2 eggs, beating the 
yolks slightly. Add i c milk, ^ t salt, then i^^ c rye 
flour and i t baking powder sifted together. Beat the 
whites of the eggs until stiff, and carefully fold into the 
mixture. Pour into well greased gem pans, and bake 20 
m in a hot oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

Put the codfish on to cook, make the muffins, and while 
they are baking make the White Sauce for the fish. Drain 
the codfish and add to the sauce; place in the double 
boiler to cook. Make the coffee. 

Beat an egg and add to the mashed potato left from the 
preceding evening, shape into cakes and put into frying pan 
to brown. 

Cut the oranges in half and serve each half as a portion. 
Then beat the egg for the codfish and add it just before 
serving after the fruit has been eaten. 

After breakfast, make the pie for dinner. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 72 

MUSHROOMS WITH MACARONI AND KIDNEY 

BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER HERMITS 

TEA 

Mushrooms with Macaroni and Kidney 

Boil until tender ^ pound macaroni; blanch; return to 
the saucepan and add % c each butter and grated cheese. 
Mix well together and set aside to keep warm until needed. 

Make Tomato Sauce (p. 125), cooking in double boiler. 

Remove the skin from a veal or lamb kidney, slice very 
fine, and saute in 2 T butter; when tender remove with a 
skimmer from the butter, and then saute in the same butter 
6 mushroom caps, peeled and cut very fine. The canned 
or dried mushrooms may be used for this. If the dried 
are used they will need to be soaked several hours in cold 
water. 

Add the mushrooms and kidney to the tomato sauce, 



DECEMBER MENUS 129 

arrange the macaroni in a circle in a serving dish and pile 
the kidney mixture in the center. Serve at once very hot. 
Hermits 

Cream together i c butter and i>^ c sugar; then add i 
c chopped raisins, 3 eggs beaten well, 3 c flour sifted with 
I t cloves, I t nutmeg, and i t soda. Roll into a thin sheet, 
about Yb, io yi inch thick, cut into rounds and bake in a 
slow oven until brown. 
Brown Bread 

One c rye meal, i c granulated cornmeal, i c graham 
flour, ^ t soda, V/i t salt, ^ c molasses, 1^ c milk or 
water. For directions see Lesson 17, page 31. 
Preparing the Meal 

In the morning after breakfast make the brown bread, 
hermits, and the lemon pie for dinner. 

Then 5^ h before lunch time cook the macaroni. While 
it is cooking slice the kidney and prepare the mush- 
rooms, then make the tomato sauce. While that is cooking 
over hot water, add the cheese and butter to the drained 
and blanched macaroni. Saute the kidney in butter, re- 
move when done and add to the tomato sauce, then saute 
the mushrooms in the same butter and add to the sauce. 

Prepare the table and make the tea. Arrange the 
macaroni on a hot serving dish with the kidneys and 
mushrooms in the center. 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 73 

BELGIAN HARE EN CASSEROLE 

SCALLOPED POTATOES BAKED SWEET POTATOES 

LEMON PIE 

Belgian Hare en Casserole 

Separate the dressed hare into pieces at the joint ; season 
with paprika and salt and saute in ^ c butter with 2 or 
3 slices of bacon cut in small pieces to a golden brown. 
Put the meat in a casserole with i c of hot water and put 
on the cover. Let stand in the oven about ^ h, then add 

2 c stock, hot water, or thickened sauce or gray, i T lemon 
juice, and a bit of bay leaf. Cook in a moderate oven about 

3 h. Bring to the table without removing the cover. 



130 LESSONS IN COOKING 

This may be cooked very nicely in a fireless cooker al- 
lowing, however, about 5 h for its cookery there. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Wash and pare 4 medium sized potatoes. Into a but- 
tered baking dish slice very thinly enough potatoes to cover 
the bottom of the dish. Over this sprinkle salt, pepper, and 
dots of butter. Also about 3/2 T flour. Now add another 
layer of thinly sliced potatoes and proceed as before. When 
the potatoes are all used sprinkle buttered breadcrumbs 
over the top and add milk until it comes to the top layer 
of the potatoes. Bake until the potatoes are tender add- 
ing more milk if necessary. The potatoes will require about 
I h to bake. 

Plain Pastry 

Sift 13^ c flour, % t salt, and ^ t baking powder into 
a chopping bowl. Flour the blade of a chopping knife, and 
chop ^ c of shortening (lard, butter, suet, snowdrift, cot- 
tolene, or a combination of any two or all) into the flour, 
being very careful to keep the flour between the blade of 
the knife and the shortening as much as possible. When 
the mixture looks hke meal, each little particle of fat being 
coated with flour, add, gradually, cold water enough to 
make a stiff paste that is not crumbly, but sticks together 
without adhering to the bowl or knife. A case knife is 
preferable for mixing paste. When the paste, rolled with 
the knife into a ball, has taken up all the particles of dough 
or flour on the sides of the bowl, turn onto a board, lightly 
dredged with flour, roll about in the flour with the knife, 
then pat with the rolling pin into a rectangular shape and 
roll out to the thickness required. Dust the board with 
flour when necessary, but use as little as possible. 

Lemon Filling 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs until light and thick; add 
gradually i c fine granulated sugar, and one at a time the 
unbeaten whites of 2 eggs. 

Beat 34 c butter to a cream, and add the egg mixture 
to this gradually, also the juice of 2 lemons, and the grated 
rind of i. Cook over hot water stirring constantly until 
the mixture thickens, then set aside to cool while the crust 



DECEMBEF MENUS 131 

is baked over an inverted tin plate. Prick the paste here 
and there with a fork that it may rise evenly. When baked 
slide from the tin onto a plate, pour in the filling, cover 
with a meringue made by adding i T sugar to the stiffly 
beaten white of the third egg, and beating well. Brown 
and serve when thoroughly cold. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Bake like white potatoes until soft — about 45 m. See p. 19. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 4 h before dinner time put the hare into the 
casserole and start the cooking. 

About 2^ h after this prepare the scalloped potatoes. 
Also wash and scrub thoroughly the sweet potatoes and 
place both kinds in the oven to bake. 

The lemon pie having been made in the morning, pre- 
pare the table, cut the pie and arrange for serving and 
then serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 74 

RALSTON FOOD — CREAM AND SUGAR 

WAFFLES MAPLE SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Waffles 

Sift ij^ c flour, 2 t baking-powder and ^ t salt into 
a mixing bowl. To i c rich milk add the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, and add this mixture to the flour. Mix well, then 
cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. 

Have both sides of the waffle iron hot and well greased ; 
put a tablespoonful of the mixture into each compart- 
ment and let down the top. When the waffle is baked on 
one side turn the iron to brown the other. Serve at once 
with butter and syrup, or sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

Ralston Food 
Three-eighths c Ralston Food, 2 c boiling water, j4 t salt. 

Preparing the Meal 

Cook the cereal the day before and in the morning reheat 
it. Prepare the table and make the coffee. 

Make sugar syrup if no maple syrup is on hand. While 



132 LESSONS IN COOKING 

making the waffle batter have the iron on the stove heat- 
ing. 

As soon as the cereal is eaten bake some of the waffles 
and serve. Waffles must be eaten as soon as they are baked 
to be at their best. Serve the coffee with the waffles. 

After breakfast make the Shortcake and the English 
Cream for the dinner. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 75 

RABBIT STEW 
BREAD AND BUTTER TEA 

Rabbit Stev^r 

Into a saucepan put any pieces of hare left from the pre- 
ceding evening. Also add i c stewed tomatoes, 2 raw po- 
tatoes cut into dice, ^ onion sliced very thin, a bit of 
parsley and i c of hot water. Cook tightly covered until 
the potatoes are tender. If necessary thicken the gravy 
with a paste made of flour and water. 

Preparing the Meal 

About y2 h before lunch put the stew on to cook. Ten 
minutes before it is done set the table and make the tea. 
Then serve the lunch, 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 76 

CANNELON OF BEEF 

STUFFED POTATOES SCALLOPED CORN AND TOMATOES 

BANANA SHORTCAKE WITH ENGLISH CREAM 

Cannelon of Beef 

Pass 2 pounds round steak through the food chopper 
several times; add ^ c breadcrumbs, wrung dry after 
having soaked in water, i Ggg well beaten, i T finely 
chopped parsley, i t salt, i t onion juice, % t mace, and 
% t pepper. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and shape 
in a roll. Bake on a rack in a small pan between 20 and 30 
m. Baste frequently with fat from salt pork and hot 
water. 

Scalloped Corn and Tomatoes 
In the bottom of a buttered dish put a layer of cooked 



DECEMBER MENUS 133 

corn; over this a layer of bread or cracker crumbs; then 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and dots of butter; then a 
layer of stewed tomatoes. Over the tomatoes place an- 
other layer of corn and proceed as above until the dish 
contains the desired quantity. Sprinkle the top with crumbs 
and dots of butter. Place in the oven and bake about 20 
m or until well heated throughout and browned on top. 
This may be baked in individual moulds if desired. 

Banana Shortcake 

Cream ys c butter and i c sugar. Add the yolks of 2 
eggs and mix together until light and creamy. Now add al- 
ternately y2 c milk and i}i c flour sifted with 2^ t baking- 
powder. Lastly cut and fold in the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Bake in a square layer in a moderate oven 30 m or longer. 

When baked cover the top with a thick layer of sliced 
bananas and over the whole pour a thick English Cream 
made as follows : 

English Cream 

Heat I pint of milk in a double boiler. When hot stir 
into it a mixture made of 1 t cornstarch and ^ c sugar 
mixed to a paste with a little cold milk or water. Stir until 
the mixture thickens, then cook for 15 m or longer, stirring 
occasionally. 

Beat I egg, add to it ^ c sugar and % t salt ; mix well. 
When the cornstarch mixture is nearly done very slowly 
add the egg, cook a minute or so longer, then remove from 
the fire. Cool before serving. When cold add ^ t vanilla. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Bake good sized potatoes for i h, scoop out, mash, refill 
the shells and brown. See Lesson 15, page 28. 

Preparing the Meal 

About i}i h before dinner time wash and scrub the po- 
tatoes for dinner and place in the oven to bake. 

Prepare the corn and tomatoes for scalloping, then make 
the cannelon of beef. Put the meat in the oven as soon as 
prepared and the corn at the same time. 

Slice the bananas on the shortcake that was prepared in 
the morning, cut into individual portions, put on the plates 
and pour the English Cream over each. 



134 LESSONS IN COOKING 

By this time the potatoes should be baked. Remove from 
the oven, cut off the tops, scoop out the interiors, mash, 
season and refill the shells. Place in the oven a few minutes 
longer for a final browning. 

Remove the meat from the oven to a hot platter and 
make gravy if desired. Serve the corn from the dish in 
which it was baked. 

If the "good" in the meat pan is not used for gravies, add 
a little hot water, thoroughly scrape up all particles adher- 
ing to the pan, and save for future gravies, soups, etc. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 77 

APPLE SAUCE 

TRIPE FRIED IN BATTER 

CORN BREAD COFFEE 

Tripe — Fried in Batter 

Make a batter by beating 2 eggs until light, adding to 
them ^ c milk i T melted butter, and i c flour sifted with 
% t salt and 2 t sugar. Beat the whole mixture together 
until smooth and light. 

Tripe as it comes from the market is usually cooked and 
sometimes pickled. More cooking is generally needed to 
make it perfectly tender and if pickled, to remove some of 
the vinegar. Cut the tripe in pieces suitable for serving and 
boil, either in milk or water, or equal parts of each, until 
tender. This will require about 3^ h. Remove from the 
water, dry, dip into the batter, draining off as much as pos- 
sible, and fry in deep fat. 

Cornbread 

Sift together }i c cornmeal, ^ c flour, ^ t salt, j4 t 
soda, and i T sugar. Mix with i beaten egg, and i c thick 
sour milk. Bake in a moderate oven 30 m. 

Apple Sauce 

Use 6 tart apples, ^ c water, ^ t salt, sugar to taste. 
See Lesson 37, page 56. 

Preparing the Meal 

First put the tripe on to cook, then make the cornbread. 
Now make the coffee and dish the apple sauce which must 
be made previously. Make the batter for the tripe. Use the 



DECEMBER MENUS 135 

same bowl for making this batter as was used for making 
the cornbread. Fry the tripe and serve the breakfast. 

To save time the tripe may be cooked the preceding day 
and so be ready for frying in the morning. 

After breakfast make graham bread and blanc mange. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 78 

CABBAGE MOULD W^ITH MEAT BALLS AND TOMATO SAUCE 
GRAHAM BREAD TEA 

Cabbage Mould 

Cut and reserve the interior leaves from a rather large 
head of cabbage, and gently steam, until tender, the large 
outside leaves, being very careful to preserve the shape. 

Pass any meat left from the beef cannelon the preceding 
evening through a meat grinder, and mix with enough 
Thick White Sauce (p. 38) to form balls of it. If no meat 
is left raw meat may be ground, made into balls and broiled. 

Make a Tomato Sauce according to directions, p. 125. 

Either put the meat balls in the steamer with the cab- 
bage to heat, or else drop them into a saucepan of boiling 
water until thoroughly hot. Of course this latter is un- 
necessary if the meat has to be cooked. 

When the cabbage is tender, remove from the steamer, 
fill the center with the hot meat balls, and pour the Tomato 
Sauce over all. Serve at once. 

Graham Bread 

Sift 3 c graham flour, i^ t soda, and 2 t baking-powder 
thoroughly. Add 1/2 c brown sugar, ^2 c molasses, and 2)4 
c sour milk, and beat well. Steam 3 h. If the process is 
to be hurried, put into small moulds such as ^ pound bak- 
ing-powder tins and steam i h. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the graham bread immediately after breakfast. 
Then about 35 m before lunch time, prepare the cabbage 
and start to cooking. While the cabbage is cooking prepare 
the meat balls and put in with the cabbage. Then make 
the Tomato Sauce. Make the tea and serve the lunch. 



136 LESSONS IN COOKING 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 79 

BOILED SALMON — EGG SAUCE 

MASHED POTATOES CARROTS IN TURNIP CUPS 

PRUNE BLANC MANGE 

Boiled Salmon 

In cooking fish in boiling liquid two things must be kept 
in mind, appearance and nutritive value. Cold liquid draws 
out the juices, while plunging the fish in boiling liquid 
causes the skin to contract and crack. Consequently a 
medium course must be pursued. 

Select a piece from the middle cut of salmon, say 2 or 
3 pounds. Lower the fish fastened on a fish rack, or in the 
absence of this utensil, in a frying basket, or wrapped in a 
piece of cheese cloth, into hot water ; bring quickly to the 
boiling point ; then let simmer until the flesh separates 
readily from the bones, and no longer. After the simmer- 
ing begins the cooking will take from 5 to 8 m per pound, 
according to the thickness of the fish. Let the liquid just 
cover the fish; add 13^2 t salt and i T vinegar or lemon 
juice for each 2 quarts of water. The vinegar or lemon 
juice makes the flesh firm and also whitens it. When the 
fish is done, drain and serve with some sauce, in this case 
Egg Sauce. 
Egg Sauce 

Melt 3 T butter ; add 2 T flour, ^ t salt, and J4 t pepper. 
Mix well together then add slowly, stirring all the time, i 
c hot water. Boil several minutes until the flour is thor- 
oughly cooked, then add little by little, 2 T butter. When 
this is all well beaten into the mixture add 2 hard cooked 
eggs chopped fine. Pour over the fish and serve very hot. 
Carrots in Turnip Cups 

Pare small, well shaped, white turnips. Cut slices from 
the stem end and with a potato scoop remove the flesh leav- 
ing a cup. Throw these into boiling salted water and sim- 
mer for 20 m. Lift each one carefully with the skimmer, 
and turn upside down to drain. While these are cooking, 
cut young carrots into dice, throw them into a kettle of boil- 
ing water, and cook gently 20 m ; drain in a colander. Ar- 
range the turnip cups while hot on a heated chop plate ; add 
to the carrots 3^ t salt, a dash pepper, and ^ c cream, or 



DECEMBER MENUS 137 

^2 c milk thickened with yi T flour. Shake over the fire 
until hot, then fill the turnip cups; garnish the dish with 
parsley and serve. 
Prune Blanc Mange 

Make plain blanc mange (p. 29), 4 T cornstarch, 2 T 
sugar, yi c cold milk, mix, add 13^ c hot milk, J/2 t salt, 
bringf to the boil, then finish in the double boiler. About 5 
m before it is done add i c cooked prunes, seeded and cut 
into small pieces, and just before moulding, i t vanilla. 
Mashed Potatoes 

For 8 potatoes use 3 T butter, ^'2 t salt and J^ c milk or 
cream. See Lesson 3, page 15. 
Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before dinner time wash and pare the pota- 
toes and put them on to cook. Also cook the turnips and 
carrots, then the fish. 

While these things are cooking make the Egg Sauce, and 
if cream is not available for the carrots, thicken the milk. 

Arrange the Prune Blanc Mange which should have been 
made in the morning, in dessert dishes ready for serving. 

Drain and mash the potatoes, drain the turnip cups and 
carrots, pour the dressing on the carrots, add to the turnip 
cups and arrange on a hot chop plate. Remove the fish 
from the water, drain and put on a hot platter, pour over 
it the Egg Sauce, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 80 

PETTIJOHN WITH RAISINS CREAM AND SUGAR 

SCOTCH SCONES MAPLE SYRUP 

Scotch Scones ^^^^^^ 

Mix and sift together 2 c flour, 4 t baking-powder, 2 t 
sugar, and 3^ t salt. Rub in 4 T butter with the tips of the 
fingers ; add 2 eggs well beaten and ys c cream. Toss onto 
a floured board, pat and roll to ^ inch in thickness. Cut in 
squares, brush with white of egg, sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon, and bake in a hot oven 15 m. 
Pettijohn 

Three-quarters c Pettijohn, Ij/l c boiling water, }4 t salt. 
Add y2 c washed raisins to the cereal before serving, or 
place a few on top of the cereal as it is served individually. 



13S LESSONS IN COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

Put the cereal on to cook and make the Scotch Scones. 
When they are in the oven, make the coffee, then wash and 
scald the raisins for the cereal. Serve the cereal, then the 
rest of the breakfast, having th(" naple syrup on the table. 

> 
Saturday ing 

Lemon Butter 

To the juice and gratec find o- j lemons, add 3 eggs 
well beaten, 2 c sugar, ^4 f^, water^. and i t butter. Beat all 
well together and boil 5 n^ 'cr.iinul thick. Care must be 
taken that it does not scorch. 

This will keep indefinitely, and makes a nice variation 
from the regular jellies. 

Sweetbreads 

What is known as the "sweetbread" is the thymus gland, 
found in the neck of the calf or lamb. Frequently, how- 
ever, the pancreas of the veal or beef is sold for sweet- 
breads; th'j is inferior in quality and is not the true sweet- 
breads. They should be called "beef sweetbreads." 

As soon as the sweetbreads come from the market wash 
them well, removing all blood and as much membrane as 
possible without tearing the sweetbreads apart. Now soak 
for an hour or more in cold water, changing the water as 
it becomes bloody. 

er with boiling water to which salt and lemon juice 
vmeg-ar have been added in 'he proportion of i t salt 
an_d 2 T lemon juice or vinegar to every quart of water. 
The &cid is added to whiten the sweetbreads. Lower the 
flame and cook below the boiling point until tender, ^ h or 
more. Drain, cover with cold water to harden, and when 
cool remove all the tubes, outside skin, membranes, etc., 
and separate the sweetbreads into small pieces following 
the lines of natural divisions. 

Devil's Food Cake 

Cream ^4 c butter with i c sugar ; separate the yolks and 
whites of 4 eggs, putting the yolks in a mixing bowl and 



DECEMBER MENUS 139 

the whites in a shallow dish where they can be beaten with 
the eggwhip. To the beaten yolks add i c sugar and mix 
until light and c-eamy, then combine with the butter and 
sugar mixture. Add i c milk alternately with 23/3 c flour 
sifted with ^ t cinnamon, ind 4 t baking-powder ; then add 
I t vanilla, ^ c chocolat' lelted over hot water, and lastly 
the whites of the egg ^n dry. Bake in a loaf or in 

layers as desired. If ' "n a loaf, it will require about 

1 h in moderate oven .. , vith Boiled Frosting (p. 38). 

Salad Dressing 

Mix y2 T salt, I t mustan", i^^ T sugar, few grains 
cayenne, and ^ T flour together well ; add the yolks of two 
eggs slightly beaten, ly^ T melted butter, }i c milk, and 
very slowly, ji c vinegar. Cook over boiling water until 
the mixture thickens ; strain and cool. 

Lemon Sponge 

Soak I T gelatine in ^4 c cold water, dissolve in i c 
boiling water, add i c sugar and }i c lemon juice. Strain 
and as it cools beat occasionally with wire whip or Dover 
egg beater; when quite thick beat well and add the whites 
of 3 eggs beaten stiff; turn into a mould. Serve with Soft 
Custard. 

Soft Custard 

In a double-boiler scald i pint of milk with 34 c sugar 
and }i t salt. Add the yolks of 3 eggs beaten slightly 
heated gradually by pouring some of the hot milk -:»:.- 
and stirring them as they are returned to the ve^t ot 
milk in the double-boiler. Stir constantly and cook until it 
coats the spoon ; turn into a cold bowl, add i t vanilla and 
cool. 

Method of Work 

Immediately after breakfast make the Lemon Butter, then 
make the boiled Salad Dressing, cooking the sweetbreads 
at the same time in the lower part of the double-boiler. 
Next make the Devil's Food Cake and while it is baking 
soak the gelatine, then make the Soft Custard. Finish the 
Lemon Sponge and mould for serving. 



140 LESSONS IN COOKING 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 81 

RISOTTO 

BREAD AND BUTTER LEMON BUTTER 

TEA 

Risotto 

Put I c of rice over the fire with plenty of cold water. 
Let boil 5 m, then drain and rinse. Melt 2 T butter in a 
saucepan, add ^ onion chopped fine, and the rice ; let cook 
until the butter is absorbed, then add i c tomato pulp, i>^ 
t salt, dash paprika, and 2 to 3 c liquid, stock or water; 
cook until the rice is tender and the liquid absorbed, then 
add y2 c grated cheese, stirring it in carefully with a fork 
to avoid breaking the grains of rice. Serve at once very 
hot. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the Lemon Butter immediately after breakfast as it 
is much better cold than hot. 

An hour before lunch time start the rice to cooking for 
the Risotto. Ten m before it is done prepare the table and 
make the tea. Then stir the grated cheese into the rice mix- 
ture and serve at once in a hot dish. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 82 

FLANK STEAK BRAIZED WITH VEGETABLES 

BANANA SALAD WAFERS 

ENGLISH APPLE TART 

Flank Steak Braized with Vegetables 

Score a flank steak, dredge well with flour, sprinkle with 
dots of butter and place in an oblong baking pan. Over 
this place a thick layer of thinly sliced raw potatoes; then 
a layer of thinly sliced onions ; over the whole pour 2 c 
stewed tomatoes. Cover tightly and place in the oven. 
Cook slowly 2>^ or 3 h. One-half hour before the meat is 
done, remove the cover, add a layer of boiled rice, if neces- 
sary more moisture, and cook uncovered the remaining time. 
In this case use the Risotto left from lunch instead of the 
plain boiled rice. 

In serving carefully transfer the steak to a hot platter, 



DECEMBER MENUS 141 

preserving the contour of the various layers. Slice down 
through the layers as through a loaf. 
Banana and Nut Salad 

Remove the skins from 4 bananas, slice through the mid- 
dle, lengthwise, place the halves on a lettuce leaf on a fruit 
plate, cover with Salad Dressing, sprinkle with chopped 
nuts and serve. 

English Apple Tart 

Fill a deep baking dish with 4 good-sized apples sliced 
thinly, and sprinkle over them 3 T sugar. Remove all mem- 
brane from % pound suet, chop it fine, and add gradually, 
while chopping, 2 c pastry flour, ^ t salt, and just enough 
ice-water, 34 to 3/2 c, to moisten. Knead a moment, and 
roll it out in a sheet. Put it over the top of the apples, mak- 
ing a hole in the center ; brush with beaten egg and bake in 
a moderate oven i h. Serve either plain or with cream and 
sugar. 

Preparing the Meal 

Three hours before dinner time prepare the steak and 
place in the oven. If a fireless cooker is available, after 
cooking 3^ h in the oven the steak may be removed to the 
"cooker" and cooked for 5 h. 

About 1 34 h before dinner make the apple tart and place 
in the oven. Do not make the salad until just before serv- 
ing the dinner as the bananas discolor when exposed to the 
air. 

When the dinner is served turn out the oven burners leav- 
ing the tart in the oven unless already too brown. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 83 

CRACKED WHEAT — CREAM AND SUGAR 

JELLY OMELET DRY TOAST 

COFFEE 

Cracked Wheat 

Into I quart of boiling water stir i c cracked wheat ; add 
yz t salt, boil 5 m then cook in the double-boiler at least 10 
h. If cooked in the fireless cooker start 24 h before needed. 
This requires long cooking but it is worth the extra trouble 
as it is a very delicious food. 



142 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Jelly Omelet 

Follow directions given in Lesson 68, page 125, for Ham 
Omelet, omitting the chopped ham. Just before the omelet 
is rolled to send to the table, spread the top with currant, 
apple, quince or grape jelly, fold over or roll, and serve. 

Dry Toast 

Brown slices of dry bread 3^ inch thick. Do not let 
stand piled together as the steam given off softens the 
toast. 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the previously cooked cereal. Separate the eggs 
and get everything ready to make the omelet. Make the 
coffee and toast and get the omelet pan ready. Finish the 
omelet and pour it into the hot buttered pan. Set over a low 
flame covered tightly and let cook while the cereal is being 
eaten. Then serve the omelet, toast and coffee. 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 84 

CORN SOUP — WAFERS 

ROAST BEEF YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

FRAN CON lA POTATOES 

LEMON SPONGE — SOFT CUSTARD 

Corn Soup 

Chop 3^ can corn, add i c water and simmer for 30 m, 
then rub thru a sieve. Scald i c milk with a thin slice 
of onion, when corn is ready, remove onion from the milk, 
add the corn, bind with a roux made of I T butter and i 
T flour, and season. Serve at once. 

Roast Beef 

For an oven roast select the rib piece. Have the rib re- 
moved and the roast rolled, but be sure to have the rib sent 
home with the roast. This with the tough parts of the roast 
that may be left and the outside skin, which will give it a 
good flavor, will make a fine soup for the next day. Wipe 
the roast with a damp cloth, sear on all sides in a hot 
skillet, season, set on a rack in a dripping pan, and bake at 
a low temperature allowing i h for the first 3 pounds and 
20 m for each pound over. Baste frequently. 



DECEMBEB MENUS ^ 143 

Franconia Potatoes 

Pare and quarter medium sized potatoes, parboil for 5 
m, drain and place in the roasting pan with the meat. Baste 
together with the meat. 
Yorkshire Pudding 

Sift I c flour with }i t salt. Add i c milk beating the 
batter until smooth and velvety. Then add 2 eggs beaten 
light. Cover the bottom of a hot baking pan or gem tins 
with the fat from the roast beef. Pour in the batter 3^ inch 
deep. Bake in a hot oven for 20 m basting after it is well 
risen with the fat from the pan in which the meat is roast- 
ing. Cut in squares when serving. 
Preparing the Meal 

For a 4 pound roast allow about ij^ h. After the roast 
has been in the oven ^ h prepare the potatoes, parboil, and 
place in the pan with the roast. Then make the Yorkshire 
Pudding. While that is baking remove the Lemon Sponge 
made the preceding day from the mould to a serving dish. 
When the meat and potatoes are done remove from the pan 
to a hot platter and vegetable dish and make the gravy. 
Serve the dinner. 
Sunday SUPPER Lesson 85 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS ON TOAST 

devil's food CAKE PRESERVED STR.\WBERRIES 

COCOA 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Add parboiled sweetbreads broken into small pieces to 2 
c Medium White Sauce (4 T butter, 4 T flour, 2 c milk), 
reheat, and serve on toast. 
Cocoa 

One-eighth t salt, 3 c milk, i c boiling water, 2 T cocoa, 
2 T sugar, 1 t cornstarch. See lesson 2, page 13. 
Preparing the Meal 

Cook the sweetbreads on Saturday so that all that is 
necessary on Sunday is to make the White Sauce, which 
should be cooked about 15 m before supper time. While 
cooking make the cocoa, then the toast. Cut the cake, pour 
the strawberries into a berry dish. 

Add the sweetbreads to the White Sauce. Dip each slice 
of toast quickly into boiling salted water, place on a platter, 
and pour the Creamed Sweetbreads over them. 



144 LESSONS IN COOKING 

CHRISTMAS DINNER 

Lesson 86 

SHRIMP COCKTAIL 

ROAST GOOSE — APPLE AND PRUNE STUFFING 

RICED POTATOES TURNIP SOUFFLE 

CURRANT JELLY 

WALDORF SALAD IN RED APPLE SHELLS 

SNOW BALLS WITH STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

SALTED ALMONDS BONBONS 

Color Scheme — Red, Green and White. 
Table Decoration 

The following is a simple and effective table decoration. 
Lay an open work centerpiece over a foundation of red 
paper. Outline with sprays of holly. Heap cotton lightly in 
the center and sprinkle with diamond dust. In the midst 
stand a pretty deer. Fasten red baby ribbon to its neck and 
extend to each place, tying a sprig of holly or a favor to 
the end and lay on each napkin. A Santa Claus standing 
at the head of the deer adds greatly to the effect. 
Shrimp Cocktail 

Wash the contents of i can of dry shrimps in cold water. 
Let lay for 15 m in salt water. Drain, split them in half 
lengthwise. Remove the intestinal canal which lies along 
the back and looks like a tiny black thread. 

Arrange lettuce leaves on a salad plate and lay the halves 
of the shrimps, split side down, in a circle. Set a tiny 
cup filled with cocktail sauce in the center. The cup may 
be any one of the varieties of the little paper cups that 
would be suitable to the occasion, or may be the halves of 
small lemons, the pulp being removed and the edge cut in 
points. One can of shrimp serves eight. 
Cocktail Sauce 

Mix 2 T prepared horseradish, 2 drops of Tabasco sauce, 
juice of I lemon, Yz c red tomato catsup, and a dash of 
cayenne. Serve with the cocktail. 
Apple and Prune Stuffing 

Mix well 3 c dry bread crumbs with 2 T melted butter, 
I t salt, a dash of pepper and paprika, and >4 t thyme. 
Then add i c tart apples cut into cubes, ^ c stoned raw 
prunes, and ^ c English walnuts broken into pieces. 



DECEMBER MENUS 145 

Roast Goose 

Follow directions for dressing a fowl given in Part III. 
Be sure to scrub well both inside and out using plenty of 
soap or soda. Then rinse with boiling water. Dry, rub the 
outside with flour and breadcrumbs mixed in equal propor- 
tions. Season with salt and pepper. 

Bake about 3 h basting from time to time with the fat 
as it cooks out. Then pour the fat from the pan and 
baste occasionally with water during the last hour. 

For an 8 pound goose allow 4 h at a very low tempera- 
ture. 

Turnip Souffle 

To 3^ c thick White Sauce (p. 38) add i c turnips, 
cooked and mashed, and the yolks of 2 eggs beaten well. 
Season with salt and pepper and then cool. Cut and fold 
in the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Turn into a buttered 
baking dish and bake in a slow oven about 40 m or until 
firm. 

Waldorf Salad 

Select even-sized^ well-colored, red Jonathan apples. Cut 
a slice from the stem end thick enough to include the stem 
which will serve for a handle. Scoop out the center of 
the apple, being careful to keep the pieces large enough for 
the salad, leaving a perfect shell. 

Mix the apple with an equal quantity of celery, J/2 c 
Malaga grapes, halved and seeded, and ^ c English wal- 
nuts. Mix with Cream Sauce, p. 99. Fill the apple 
shells with the salad and cover with the tops. Serve on 
lettuce leaves on salad plates. If there is too much to fill 
the apples put into a bowl and cover tightly with a wet 
cloth. 

Snow Balls 

Cream 3^ c butter, add gradually i c sugar, and alternate 
y2 c milk with 2% c flour sifted with 3^ t baking-powder. 
Then cut and fold in the whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. 
Steam 35 m in buttered cups. Turn out on serving plates 
and pour Strawberry Sauce around. 



146 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Strawberry Sauce 

Cream }i c butter, add gradually ^ c powdered sugar, 
to the white of i egg beaten stiff, and i c preserved straw- 
berries. Beat well until all are blended and the sauce light 
and foamy. Either preserved or fresh fruit may be used 
as desired. Serve on the hot pudding. 

Preparing the Meal 

Dress the goose the night before. Stuff and truss in the 
morning and begin baking at 9 o'clock. Cook and mash the 
turnips and prepare the souffle up to the point of adding 
the whites of the eggs. 

Wash the lettuce, wrap in a cloth or paper and lay in a 
cold place. Peel the potatoes and let them stand in cold 
water, then make the pudding sauce. 

Set the table, arranging the decorations and getting every- 
thing as nearly ready as possible, putting on the jelly, etc. 
At II o'clock fix the shrimps and the cocktail sauce and set 
in a cool place until needed. Then prepare the salad. 
About 12 o'clock make the snow balls. Put the potatoes on 
to boil and steam the snow balls over them. Finish the 
souffle and set to bake. Put bread, butter, water, etc., on 
the table. 

Arrange the shrimp cocktail on the salad plates and put 
on the table. Remove the goose to a hot platter and put 
in the warming oven. Make the gravy. Take the pota- 
toes out of the boiling- water and rice them, leaving the 
snowballs standing in the steamer over the boiling water. 
Let the souffle remain in the oven until ready to serve. 

Have the bon bons and salted nuts in dishes on the side 
table and the dessert dishes ready for the snowballs. 



DECEMBER MENUS— COST AND 
PERSONS 



FOOD VALUE— FOUR 



Supplies — Cost 

6 lbs. Flour $0.18 

1-7 lb. Cornstarch 01^4 

% lb. Cornmeal 02% 

4 lbs. Bread 20 

% lb. Crackers 03 

Vs pkg. Shredded Wheat.. .04 

Vs pkg. Ralston 02 

% pkg. Pettljohn 01% 



lb. Cracked 
lb. Rice 



Wheat. . 



.021/. 
.OG " 



% lb. Macaroni 04 

61/2 lbs. Sugar 39 

1 pt. Syrup 06 

Vs pt. Maple Syrup 0.5 1/^ 

% pt. Raspberry Jam 15 

1 lb. Sausage 25 

3 lbs. Ham 66 

1 lb. Veal Stew 16 

% lb. Codfish 08 

1 Kidney 08 

3 lbs. Rabbit 42 

1 1/2 lbs. Round Steak 21 

% lbs. Tripe 09 

2 lbs. Salmon 36 

11/2 lbs. Flank Steak 24 

4 lbs. Roast Beef. 
1 pr. Sweetbreads 
4 doz. Eggs. 



.56 

.30 

1.40 

6 qts. Milk 48 

3 pts. Cream 60 

% lb. Cheese 07% 

3 lbs. Butter 96 

1/4 lb. Suet 05 

1 p. Potatoes 40 

% Pumpkin 07 

2 Cans Tomatoes 20 

1 can Succotash 12 

1 small can Mushrooms. . .10 

14 pk. Sweet Potatoes 10 

1 can Corn 10 

1 Cabbage 04% 

4 Turnips 05 

3 Carrots 05 

4 Onions 05 

1 bunch Celery 10 

1 Egg Plant 15 

1/2 lb. Prunes 05 

1/4 pk. Apples 10 

1/2 lb. Figs 10 

1/) doz. Lemons 15 

3 Oranges 09 

1/4 can Peaches 07 

1/2 lb. Raisins 08 

1/2 doz. Bananas 09 

1 can Strawberries 25 

1-32 lb. Cocoa 02 

% lb. Chocolate 10 

% lb. CofiEee 22 

1-16 lb. Tea 04 



Total 

9,840 

265 

1,086 

4,820 

400 

510 

354 

426 

852 

1,224 

800 

12,090 

2,000 

1,000 

1,000 

1,600 

4,800 

480 

200 

300 

2,070 

1,665 

300 

2,144 

907 

4,440 

576 

3,808 

3,900 

2,7.30 

771 

10,815 

881 

2,247 

224 

420 

651 

50 

600 

500 

217 

100 

100 

100 

50 

100 

800 

440 

600 

219 

255 

100 

600 

450 

800 

72 

600 



-FOOD UNITS- 

Proteix 
1,180 

"98 
626 

36 

66 

53 

77 
154 
108 
120 



304 

912 

202 

190 

183 

828 

900 

250 

640 

381 

2,398 

352 

1,220 

741 

136 

194 

54 

4 

247 

16 

88 

116 

15 

32 

65 

43 

13 

10 

13 

12 

17 

24 

13 

30 

21 

15 

4 

18 

21 

64 

12 

48 



Fat 
294 

'ii9 
290 
80 
23 
18 
30 
60 
12 
16 



1,296 

3,888 

278 

10 

117 

1,242 

765 

50 

1,504 

526 

2,042 

224 

2,588 

2,028 

2,348 

562 

10,761 

877 

22 

16 

30 

97 

4 

88 

50 

18 

4 

8 

5 

2 

10 

"31 

"so 

9 

2 

54 

24 

'"38 
432 



Starch 

& Sugar 

8,366 

265 

869 

3,904 

284 

421 

283 

319 

638 

1,104 

664 

12,090 

2,000 

1,000 

1,000 



1,131 

246 

15 



1,978 

192 

302 

438 

31 

480 

385 

156 

83 

82 

82 

36 

73 

776 

396 

570 

168 

231 

94 

528 

405 

736 

22 

120 



Total for Week .$11.37 89,349 13,364 33,022 42,963 

Food Units per Day — 12,764. Food Units per Day per Person — 3,191. 
Cost of Food per Day — .$1.62. Cost per Day per Person — $0,405. 
Op the Total Food Value 15% is Protein, 37% is Fat and 48% is 

Starch and Sugar. 147 



148 LESSONS IN COOKING 

SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING THE COST OF 
DECEMBER MENUS 

Substitute oleomargarine for butter in cooking. Use top of milk 
in place of cream for cereal and coflfee. In cooking with milk reduce 
by adding half water, or buy skimmed milk at $.05 a quart. 

In L. 65 serve toast instead of muffins. Also use ^ pound bacon 
instead of 1 pound sausage. Get a 5 pound soup bone Monday. For 
lunch, L. 66, have a vegetable soup with stock instead of cream of 
celery soup. For dinner, L. 67, instead of boiled ham, chop the 
soup meat, add to it y^ c currants, % t cinnamon, clove and all- 
spice mixed, 1 c bread crumbs, 1 egg, and % e stock for each 2 e 
meat. Form into a loaf and bake 20 min in a moderate oven, or 
until well heated throughout and browned on top. In pumpkin 
timbales use one whole egg instead of the two eggs. Omit the cream 
with the jellied figs. In L. 68 omit the peaches with the cereal. In 
L. 69 serve the omelet plain and omit the raspberry jam. In L. 70 
use 1 whole egg instead of 2 yolks in the sweet rice croquettes. 
Omit the oranges in L. 71 ; also the egg in the creamed codfish. Use 
plain bread and butter in place of the rye muffins. In L. 72 omit 
the mushrooms from the macaroni dish; also use but half of the 
hermit recipe. 

In L. 73, if the rabbit must be purchased, substitute 1 pound 
round steak for brown stew (p. 51). Also serve bread pudding 
(see recipe, p. 49) instead of lemon pie. In L. 76 make a shortcake 
as on p. 47. In L. 77 use but 1 egg in the batter for tripe, adding 
Yi e water. In L. 79 omit the egg sauce for the salmon, of which 

1 pound instead of 2 will be sufficient. In L. 80 serve buttered toast 
instead of Scotch scones. In L. 82 omit the banana salad and 
wafers. In L. 84 substitute IV2 lbs ham for 4 lbs roast beef. Also 
omit the Yorkshire pudding and serve mashed, instead of franconia 
potatoes. Also serve plain lettuce. In L. 85 substitute creamed eggs 
for sweetbreads, also sliced bananas for canned strawberries. 

ESTIMATED REDUCTION— OMISSIONS AND SUBSTITUTIONS 

1% lb. Butter, ,$ .48 less Lemon Pie $ .23 less 

l%lb. Oleo .30 $.18 Bread Pudding f .05 ? .18 

3 pts. Cream 60 Butter reduced bv substitu- 

2 qts. Milk 16 tions V2 lb 16 

1 lb. Sausage !f .25 less 1 small can Mushi-ooms 10 

14 lb. Bacon .06 19 Rabbit 42 

1% doz. eggs (saved in muf- 1 lb. Salmon .18 

fins, shortcake, etc.) 47 4 Banana.s 06 

3 lb. Ham $ .66 less 4 lbs. Roast Beef $ .56 less 

$.25 Soup Bone 41 li^ lb. Ham .27 29 

% can Peaches 07 1 pr. Sweetbreads $ .30 less 

Yi pt. Raspberry Jam 15 4 Eggs .12 18 

2 Oranges 06 Caniied Strawberries $ .25 less 



Original Total Cost $11.37 



4 Bananas .06 19 



Reduction 4.05 $ 4.05 

$1.04 New Cost per Day. 

New Total Cost per wk.$ 7.32 $0.26 New Cost per Day per Person. 



JANUARY MENUS 




r/3 




< 




O 




a 


Tl 


w 


O 


o 


O 

M 


o 




u 


-a 


03 W 


ai 


m 




K< 


> 


fCK 


u 






\^ 


-a 




<u 


m 


m 


K 




W 


in 






< 




W 




u 






LESSONS IN COOKING 

PART V 



FUELS AND STOVES 

Whatever the kind of stove used one rule will apply to 
all — knozv your stove. Understand the principle of its 
construction ; if there are dampers, find out the use of each ; 
study the drafts ; know the properties of the fuel used so as 
to economize and yet secure the best results. 

In appearance the stove should be plain and neat. Orna- 
ments and nickled trimmings mean loss of time and 
strength spent in polishing, and add to the cost of the 
stove without adding to its merit. 
Coal 

Hard or anthracite coal kindles with difficulty, but when 
lighted, burns with intense heat and little flame. It is 
clean to handle, contains almost no gas, and makes a steady 
continuous fire, requiring very little attention. While its 
cost is high in places distant from Pennsylvania, many 
consider these qualities make it the best fuel for winter use. 

Soft or bituminous coal kindles easily, and burns with 
considerable flame when first lighted, giving ofif gas and 
much soot. In a short time it is reduced to bright red 
coals. This stage in its combustion is best for cooking 
as the heat is more steady. Its cost is one-half to one- 
third that of hard coal. It heats more quickly, but does 
not last so long. Only the free-burning varieties of soft 
coals are at all suitable for cooking. The coking coals con- 
tain a very large percentage of gas, which gives much 
soot, and in burning forms a crust over the fire which 
prevents good combustion. 
V/ood 

Wood is a clean fuel, lights readily and heats quickly. 
It burns out so rapidly that it requires a good deal of 
attention to keep an even fire. 

Hard wood like oak lasts well and makes a fairly steady 
fire. Soft wood like pine is used as a fuel only in localities 
where it is very plentiful, because it burns out so quickly, 
requiring much attention. It is best for kindling fires. 
Copyright, 1911, by Home Economics Association. 

149 



150 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Coke 

Coke is superior to soft coal for cooking in that it is a 
much cleaner fuel and gives off no soot or gas. Coke, 
which is made in special coke ovens for use in blast fur- 
naces and for domestic use, can now be obtained in all 
the larger cities. The coke which is obtained as a bi- 
product in the manufacture of illuminating gas is much 
softer and dirtier. 

Coke is very bulky for its weight, it kindles easily, making 
a very intense heat but does not last nearly so long as hard 
coal. It is very helpful in starting the fire when hard coal 
is used, and for increasing the heat quickly. Its price is 
somewhat less than hard coal, but more than soft coal. 

Gas 

Gas is the quickest, cleanest and most convenient fuel to 
use. Its cost is sometimes greater than that of other fuels, 
but the fact that it can be lighted just at the moment of 
use and instantly turned out when not needed, eliminates 
all waste, thus economizing both time and money. 

The best gas stoves and ranges are now made with the 
broiling and baking ovens above the level of the top of 
the stove, doing away with the stooping and inconvenience 
caused by the old style. 

In selecting these stoves see that the top grates are 
movable and that the stove can be readily cleaned. As the 
stoves become old the valve handles turn easily and are 
sometimes turned on without the knowledge of the worker, 
allowing the gas to escape, which may lead to an ex- 
plosion. There is usually a nut for tightening the valves, 
which should be turned until they are no longer loose. 

In lighting gas stoves let the gas flow for a second before 
applying the match; otherwise the gas may burn back 
producing a yellow flame which soils utensils, and gives 
off poisonous and odorous by-products. If this occurs turn 
out immediately and relight. Closing of the air slots of 
the burner from any cause will give a yellow, smoky flame. 

Before lighting the oven be sure to open the oven door 
until the burners are well lighted. This is to guard against 
the explosion of gas which might have leaked into the oven. 



JANUARY MENUS 151 

How to Use Gas 

1. Have the article ready and on the burner before the 
gas is lighted. 

2. Never turn the gas so high that the red flame shows 
as that means imperfect combustion. 

3. As soon as the liquid begins to boil turn the gas 
down until there is just enough heat to keep it boiling. 

4. Use the simmering jet whenever possible. It sup- 
plies sufficient heat to keep a large kettle of water boiling. 

5. In most baking, turn out one oven burner or lower 
both after the first fifteen minutes. 

6. A small oven set on top of the stove over one burner, 
for baking small quantities, will reduce the gas bill. In a 
test of baking a pan of muffins, 4 cubic feet of gas were 
consumed with a small portable oven against 12 cubic feet 
in the large oven. 

Rates of Consumption of Gas 

The following figures are the results given by careful 
tests made by Miss Bertha M. Terrill : 
Top Burners, 
Single burner, full, consumes 1 ft. in 4 to 5 m., or 12 to 15 ft. per 

hour. 
Single burner, just boiling, consumes 1 ft. in 15 to 19 m., or 3 to 

4 ft. per hour. 
Single burner, simmering height, consumes 1 ft. in 29 m., or 

about 2 ft. per hour. 
Double burner, full, consumes 1 ft. in 2 m., or 30 ft. per hour. 

Oven Burners. 
Two burners, full, consume 1 ft. in 1 m., or 60 ft. per hour. 
One burner, full, consumes 1 ft. in 2 m., or 30 ft. per hour. 
One burner, half on, consumes 1 ft. in 3 m., or 20 ft. per hour. 

Electricity 

Electricity is the ideal source of heat for cooking, but 
in most places is too expensive for the average home use. 
It is absolutely without dirt, can be controlled perfectly, 
and can be used in any part of the house where the con- 
nection with the electric wires may be made. 

Recently electric stoves have been greatly improved and 
lessened in price, and there are now on the market "electric 
fireless cookers," which use little current. With electricity 
at 4 cents a Kw. they are said to cook a meal at less expense 
than with gas at $1.00 per 1,000 cu. ft. 



152 LESSONS IN COOKING 

At the present time electric toasters, heating plates, 
chafing dishes, and coffee percolators are largely used in 
dining rooms where attachments can be made with the 
electric current. These are very convenient and if used 
carefully are not expensive. 

Gasoline 

Accidents arising from the misuse of gasoline have 
created a prejudice against it as a fuel, but if used with 
care and judgment, it can well replace coal and wood in 
the warm, if not in the cold weather. When open to the 
air gasoline is constantly giving off a highly inflammable 
and explosive gas so that it should never be used in a room 
where there is a fire or an open flame. 

Coal Oil 

Kerosene or coal oil is much in use as a hot weather 
substitute for coal and wood. The objections to its use 
are the odor, soot and grease. If the stoves are kept 
thoroughly clean these objections are minimized. A cloth 
wet with gasoline will take off the grease more quickly 
and effectually than anything else. 

Alcohol 

Since "denatured alcohol" has been manufactured and 
the tax on fuel alcohol removed in 1907, the price has been 
reduced somewhat, but it still costs from 50 cents to 65 
cents or more a gallon. As it has only two-thirds the 
heating power of kerosene or gasoline, it is an economical 
fuel only for cooking in small quantities. It is safer to 
use than gasoline, but not so safe as kerosene. 

Coal and Wood Stoves 

The same general principle is observed in the construc- 
tion of these different stoves, namely a good firebox, drafts, 
an oven damper, and a chimney damper. A good steel 
range represents the highest development in cook stoves. 

The fire box and grate are suited to the fuels used, the 
grate being coarse for wood and fine for coal. A rocking 
grate is better than the older form which shakes by a 
backv/ard and forward motion. The front drafts regulate 
the amount of air admitted ; the chimney damper when 
open, creates a strong draft, drawing the air through the 



JANUABY MENUS 153 

fuel and thus increasing combustion. The oven damper, 
when closed, throws the heat into the oven, when open, 
permits it to be drawn up the chimney. 

In lighting a fire open front drafts and chimney dampers, 
until the fuel is burning briskly, then close all to consei've 
the heat. Keep the oven damper closed except when it is 
desirable to cool off the oven or to increase the draft to 
make the fire burn better. Watch the fire, replenishing 
the fuel before it burns too low, thus economizing on fuel. 
In using soft coal a little air should be admitted over the 
fire when coal is first put on to burn the gases driven off. 

In selecting a wood or coal stove see that the dampers 
work easily and perfectly ; that the ash box is large enough 
and can be readily cleaned ; that the side door when opened 
will not scatter ashes on the floor ; that the oven is a 
good shape and size and suited to the needs of the family; 
that the stove can be readily and easily cleaned inside, 
which should be done at least every six months or oftener 
if soft coal is used. 

Keep the ash pit free from ashes for if they accumulate 
too much the grate becomes overheated and will warp or 
burn out. 

The Labor Saving Cook Stove 

When coal is used as a fuel it should if possible be 
stored in a bin on the same floor as the stove. A good plan 
is to have the bottom of the bin raised about a foot and a 
half from the floor, with a door in the bin connected 
with a shute, so that all that is necessary in getting the 
coal is to pull up the door and let the coal run into the 
hod. 

A number of stoves are now on the market having the 
ash pit connected with a 3 or 4 inch sheet iron pipe which 
passes through the kitchen floor into a covered ash can in 
the basement. This saves the disagreeable and dirty task 
of emptying ashes. 

These two devices could be put in with little expense or 
trouble and would save much time and labor over the 
usual method of shoveling coal into a hod in the cellar, 
carrying it upstairs, then shoveling out the ashes and 
carr_yliig them downstairs, and cleaning up afterwards. 



154 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Gasoline Stoves 

By far the largest number of gasoline accidents result 
from filling the tank when the stove is lighted. Never 
do this under any circumstances. If using an upright 
tank, close the burners, that is turn out the fire, then 
turn down the tank and fill, being careful not to fill it to 
the top. Close tightly and wipe off every drop of fluid 
which may have fallen on the outer surfaces of the tank. 

The detachable tank should be taken from the stove to 
a lower place where it may be filled, covered tightly, wiped 
off and replaced. Before taking off the tank, be sure that 
the burners are closed. 

If at any time gasoline is spilled upon the floor, stove, 
hands, or garments, do not strike a match until it has 
been wiped up. 

Be sure the gas generator is well heated according to 
directions before the gasoline is turned on. 

Do not place these stoves in a draft; the flame may be 
blown out and the gasoline run down upon the stove 
shelf and the floor. If you find that the stove has gone 
out after being lighted, close the burners and examine 
carefully to see if gasoline has escaped. If so, do not 
relight until the gasoline has been thoroughly dried up and 
evaporated. 

Kerosene Stoves 

Some of the blue flame oil stoves have no wick, while 
others have. The gas is generated from the oil and is 
mixed with air before burning. It burns without soot or 
smoke and when such stoves are given reasonable care 
they are entirely satisfactory. The three hole wick blue 
flame stoves cost about $7.00. 

The two or three burner lamp stoves with small oven 
to fit may be used with satisfaction if given the proper 
care and cleaning. Have the oil tank full of oil ; do not 
burn many hours in succession, but give time to cool off; 
keep the wick clean and even; set the stove in a place free 
from drafts as it is liable to smoke otherwise, A three 
burner lamp stove with a small oven may be purchased 
for about $5.00. 



JANUARY MENUS 



165 



READING METERS 
Gas Meters 

A gas meter has three dials each numbered from one to 
ten. The first dial is called the "i thousand" and measures 
in hundred cubic feet up to i,ooo cubic feet. The figures 
on it run from right to left. The second dial called "lo 
thousand" measures in thousands up to ten thousand cubic 
feet, and the figures run from left to right. The third 
called "lOO thousand" measures in ten thousands up to one 
hundred thousand cubic feet and the figures run from 
right to left. 

To read the meter begin with the dial on the right and 
note the figure the hand last passed over, remembering that 
it is so many hundred cubit feet. For example, if 2 is the 
last figure the hand has passed over, it reads 200 cubic feet. 
In the second dial the hand is moving from left to right 
and the figure last passed over is next taken. On the third 
dial the hand is moving from right to left and the figure 
last passed over is taken. The small dial at the top reg- 
isters two cubic feet and is for showing leaks. 





In reading Mleter A, dial I reads 6, that is.... 600 cubic feet 
In reading Meter A, dial IT reads 9, that is.... 9,000 cubic feet 
In reading Meter A, dial III reads 4, that is.... 40,000 cubic feet 

June 1st, the total reading is 49,600 cubic feet 

In reading Meter B, dial I reads 7, that is. . . . 700 cubic feet 
In reading Meter B, dial II reads 1, that is. . . . 1,000 cubic feet 
In reading Meter B, dial III reads 5, that is.... 50,000 cubic feet 

July 1st, the total reading is 51,700 cubic feet 

June 1st, the total reading is 49,600 cubic feel; 



Gas used in June 2,100 cubic feet 



156 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



At $i.oo per i,ooo cubic feet the gas bill for June is 
reckoned by dividing 2,100 by 1,000, this to ascertain the 
number of "thousands" used. The result is 2.1. If 1,000 
cubic feet cost $1.00, 2.1 thousands will cost 2.1 times 
$1.00 or 2.10, that is $2.10 the amount of the gas bill. 

Electric Meter 

The electric meter like the gas meter is composed of 
dials, but the unit of measure is the "watt" or "watt-hour." 
One thousand watts is a kilo-watt. Bills are usually 
measured in kilowatts. 

The method of reading is exactly the same as the gas 
meter — taking always the lower figure next to each hand, 
being careful to note that the hands on the alternate dials 
move in opposite directions. 




In reading Meter A, dial I reads 3 kilowatts 

In reading Mieter A, dial II reads 80 kilowatts 

In reading Meter A, dial III reads 500 kilowatts 

In reading Meter A, dial IV reads 1,000 kilowatts 

June 1st, the total is 1,583 kilowatts 

In reading Meter B, dial I reads 8 kilowatts 

In reading Meter B, dial II reads 90 kilowatts 

In reading Meter B, dial III reads 500 kilowatts 

In reading Meter B, dial IV reads 1,000 kilowatts 

July 1st, the total reading is 1,598 kilowatts 

June 1st, the total reading is 1,583 kilowatts 

Electricity used in June 15 kilowatts 

At an average cost of 10 cents per kilowatt hour the 
bill for electricity for June will be $1.50. 



JANUARY MENUS 157 

The Constant 

Some meters have upon them the word "constant" 
follov/ed by a figure. In such case the reading of the 
meter must be muUipHed by this figure in order to get the 
correct total. For example if the constant is ^^ then the 
reading must be muhipHed by ^. Hence in the above read- 
ing if there had been a constant of 3^ the total reading 
would be 15 times J/^ or 7^ kilowatt hours. 

Relative Cost of Fuels 

A number of experiments have been made to find the 
relative cost of fuels in cooking, but they would not be 
applicable to all home conditions, as many times the heat 
from the fuel is required for other purposes. But the actual 
cost of cooking the same dinner, including soupstock, with 
coal, gas and kerosene, was found from experiments made 
at the University of Chicago, to be as follows : — coal, 
$.0605, gas $.0334, and kerosene $.0353. The price of coal 
was $7.75 a ton, gas 85 cents per 1,000 feet, kerosene 12 
cents a gallon. Compared as to quantities, one ton of hard 
coal was equivalent to 5,000 cubic feet of gas, and 1,000 
feet of gas to 8 gallons of kerosene. 

Gasoline has nearly the same fuel value as kerosene. A 
cord of dry hard wood has about the fuel value of half a ton 
of coal. 

Acetylene gas is sometimes used for cooking ; it has about 
five times the fuel value of ordinary illuminating gas, and 
costs about $1.25 per 100 cubic feet, 

THE FIRELESS COOKER 

Non-conduction of heat is the principle employed in the 
"fireless cooker." This is obtained by a box having a pack- 
ing of some non-conducting material three or four inches 
thick all around, and utensils with very tight covers. It can 
be of simple home construction, such as a box lined with fine 
hay, feathers, ground cork, saw dust, excelsior or crumpled 
paper ; or one of the many patented cookers now on the 
market. Some of these cookers provide only for the reten- 
tion of the heat already in the article when put into the 
box. In such cases the cooking must be done in a consider- 



158 LESSONS IN COOKING 

able volume of water. But the later models are provided 
with soapstone or iron radiators which are heated over the 
stove and then transferred to the cooker. In this way 
dry cooking, baking and roasting can be done successfully. 

A combination gas stove and tireless cooker is one of 
the latest conveniences. The oven is arranged as a tireless 
cooker, the article is set in, the gas lighted, and when a 
certain temperature is reached the gas is turned ofif and 
the oven closing tightly becomes a fireless cooker. 

Another contrivance is the electric fireless cooker in 
which the current is shut off automatically. 

The advantages of a fireless cooker are economy, con- 
venience, and in many cases better cooked food. Their 
disadvantage is that the meal must be started two or three 
hours or more before it is served, which is not always 
convenient. 

The economy is greatest when high priced electricity or 
gas are the fuels used for cooking. A twenty minute 
burning of gas provides for an extended cooking of from 
two to ten hours. The saving varies from three-fourths to 
two-thirds. 

The convenience of the cooker is greatly appreciated by 
the busy housewife or one who is compelled to be away 
from the home. An entire dinner can be put into the 
cooker in the morning, given no attention whatever during 
the day, and with lo m work is ready to serve. 

The quality of the food is often improved by the long 
cooking at the lower temperature. This is especially true 
of meats, dried fruits, vegetables and cereals. 

Caution — After meats have been in the cooker long 
enough to allow the temperature to drop to that of blood 
heat they must be removed immediately and either cooled 
quickly or else reheated. Otherwise decomposition sets in 
very rapidly at this temperature, and if the meat be eaten 
later may cause serious trouble. 



JANUARY MENUS 

Monday Lesson 87 

BREAKFAST 

OATMEAL CREAM AND SUGAR 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Buckwheat Cakes 

To 2 c scalded milk, cooled, add ^4 cake of yeast dissolved 
in Yz c lukewarm water, Yz t salt, and buckwheat flour to 
make a thin batter, about 2 c. Let rise over night in warm 
place. In the morning stir well, add i T molasses, 34 t soda, 
dissolved in 2 T lukewarm water. Mix well together and 
drop by spoonfuls on a hot greased griddle ; cook on one 
side ; when puffed, full of bubbles, and cooked on the edges, 
turn and cook on the other side. Serve with butter and 
syrup. 
Oatmeal 

Use y^. c rolled oats, 2 c boiling water, ^ t salt. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the oatmeal previously cooked. Make the syrup 
if not on hand. Stir the buckwheat batter and add the 
molasses and soda. Heat the griddle and make the coffee. 

Serve the cereal and begin the baking of the cakes. 

Monday LUNCHEON OR SUPPER • Lesson 88 

WELSH RAREBIT ON CRACKERS 

BREAD AND BUTTER STEWED PEARS 

COCOA 

Welsh Rarebit 

Melt I T butter, add 2 t cornstarch, and stir until well 
mixed, then add gradually Y^ c thin cream, stirring con- 
stantly, and cook 2 m. Add ^ pound mild cheese cut into 
small pieces, and stir until the cheese is melted. Season 
with 34 t salt, % t mustard, and a few grains of cayenne. 
Add the yolk of i &gg beaten slightly, cook 2 m and fold 
in the stiffly beaten white of the egg. 

Pour over crackers or toast. Cook in a skillet or chafing 
dish ; heat slowly after the cheese is added or the rarebit 
may become stringy. 
Cocoa 

Use 3 c milk, i c water, 2 T cocoa, 2 T sugar, i t corn- 
starch, Y^ t salt, I t vanilla, (p. 13.) 

159 



160 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the cocoa, then the rarebit, and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 89 

BRAIZED HEART WITH DRESSING 

BAKED POTATOES CREAMED ONIONS 

APPLE FARCI AND CREAM 

Braized Heart 

Wash a calf's heart and remove the veins, arteries, and 
clotted blood ; stuff with bread dressing- }i c bread crumbs, 
34 c stock or hot water, i t sage, ground, i T chopped onion, 

1 t chopped red pepper, and i t salt, and sew together 
at the top. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in flour and 
brown in hot fat ; place in a small deep baking pan, fill the 
pan half full of boiling water, cover closely, and bake slowly 

2 h, basting every 15 m. It may be necessary to add more 
water. Remove the heart from the pan and thicken the 
liquor with flour mixed to a thin paste with cold water, 
using 2 T flour for every c of liquid. Season with salt 
and pepper and pour around the heart before serving. 

Creamed Onions 

Remove the outer skins from 6 good sized onions and 
boil until tender, about i h. Cover with i^ c medium 
white sauce (3 T butter, 3 T flour, p. 38), and serve. 

Apple Farci 

Wash and core 4 good sized apples, Jonathan preferred. 
With a vegetable scoop or a teaspoon remove several pieces 
from the sides of each apple, taking care, however, that 
the cavity so made does not extend to the core. 

Put 4 figs, 8 dates, }i c raisins, }i c nut meats, and the 
pieces of apple through the food chopper, and fill the 
cavities of the apples, cores and all with this mixture. 
Place in a small baking pan with ^ c water and 2 T butter, 
sprinkle with ^ c sugar, cover and bake slowly until 
tender. Remove from the pan, adding whatever syrup 
there may be left to each apple, and serve either plain or 
with cream. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 2 h before dinner time stuff and bake the heart. 



JANUARY MENUS 161 

Prepare onions and potatoes. If the onions are of medium 
size allow i h for cooking. If large allow 2 h or cut in 
quarters. Put the potatoes in to bake (p. 19) i h before 
dinner. Make the Apple Farci. 

Fifteen minutes before serving make the White Sauce 
for the onions, drain the onions, put into a serving dish, 
and cover with the White Sauce. 

Remove the heart from the pan and make gravy, if 
desired. Serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 90 

PETTI JOHN CREAM AND SUGAR 

LAMB CHOPS CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

COFFEE 

Cornmeal Muffins 

Cream }4 c butter, add ^ c sugar, 2 eggs well beaten and 
I c milk alternately with 2 c flour, i c cornmeal, 4 t baking- 
powder, and 1/2 t salt sifted together. Pour into buttered 
muffin pans and bake 25 m in a hot oven. 
Pettijohn 

Use I c pettijohn, 2 c boiling water, ^ t salt. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal. Make the muffins and coffee and 
broil the lamb chops (p. 22). Leave the muffins in the 
oven and the chops where they will keep hot while the 
cereal is served. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tliesday Lesson 91 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP 

DELMONICO POTATOES BREAD AND BUTTER 

TEA 

Cream of Rice Soup 

Blanch ^ c rice, put into a double boiler with i qt. of 
milk and cook slowly 1/2 h or until tender. While cooking, 
chop y2 onion and 2 stalks celery fine, and put into a frying 
pan with 2 T butter. Cook slowly until the onion and 
celery are tender, then add to the soup together with i t 
salt and a dash of pepper. Cook a few m longer, pres' 
through a vegetable sieve, reheat and serve. 

If desired i c cooked rice may be used. Add to i qt. hoi 



162 LESSONS IN COOKING 

milk and proceed as above. Cook sufficient rice (i c, see 
p. 44) for L. 92 and L. 93. 
Delmonico Potatoes 

Chop cold boiled or baked potatoes into bits the size 
of peas ; add an equal quantity of Medium White Sauce 
(p. 38). Pour into a buttered baking dish, cover the top 
with buttered cracker or bread crumbs, and bake about 
15 m in a hot oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make the Cream of Rice Soup. Then prepare the Del- 
monico Potatoes using the potatoes left from the preceding 
dinner. Make the tea and serve the lunch. 

Tuesday DINNER Lesson 92 

HAM AND EGGS A LA BURG 
SCALLOPED RICE AND TOMATOES 

CELERY^ APPLE^ AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 
SPANISH SOUFFLE — SABYON SAUCE 

Ham and Eggs a la Burg 

Parboil i slice of ham 10 m, and pan broil ; remove to a 
platter and cut into pieces for serving. To the fat in the 
pan add i T flour, mix well and add i c milk. Stir and cook 
until creamy. 

Break 4 eggs, one at a time, into a wet saucer, and care- 
fully slip into the hot cream, sprinkle with paprika, cover 
and cook until the eggs are set; remove each egg with a 
skimmer, arrange on the pieces of ham, and pour the sauce 
over all. 
Scalloped Rice and Tomatoes 

Arrange alternate layers of boiled rice and tomatoes in a 
baking dish; season with salt and pepper, cover with but- 
tered crumbs and bake until well heated throughout and 
the crumbs are browned. 
Celery, Apple and Green Pepper Salad 

Cut 2 stalks celery into 1/2 inch cubes, scald i green 
pepper from which the veins and seeds have been removed, 
drain and cut into fine shreds. Pare 2 apples and cut into 
cubes. Chop J^ c nut meats. Toss all together with 2 
forks, cover with Salad Dressing (p. 29) and serve on 
lettuce leaf. 



JANUABY MENUS 163 

Spanish Souffle 

Melt J4 c butter, add % c stale bread crumbs and cook 
until slightly browned, stirring often, Add i c milk, 2 T 
sugar, and cook 20 m in a double-boiler ; remove from the 
fire, add the unbeaten yolks of 3 eggs, stirring in very 
slowly, I t vanilla, and then cut and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Turn into a buttered baking dish set in a pan of 
hot water, and bake until firm, about 35 or 40 m. 

Sabyon Sauce 

Mix the juice and grated rind of % lemon, }4 c fruit 
juice, }i c sugar, and the yolks of 2 eggs in a double- 
boiler. Cook until the mixture thickens, beating constantly, 
then pour onto the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 

Preparing the Meal 

About ji/^ h before serving cook ^ c rice according to 
directions given in L. 24. p. 44. Prepare the ingredients 
for the salad, sprinkling lemon juice over the apple to 
prevent discoloration, and set in a cool place. 

Make the Spanish Souffle, then prepare the Scalloped 
Rice and Tomatoes, reserving 2 c of the rice for future use. 

While the ham is parboiling finish the salad and arrange 
for serving ; make the Sabyon Sauce for the dessert. Then 
broil the ham, make the cream sauce, and poach the eggs. 

Serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 93 

TART APPLES 
RICE CAKES BREAD AND BUTTER HONEY 

COFFEE 

Rice Cakes 

To 2 c boiled rice add i egg, i T sugar, and a sprinkling 
of nutmeg. If not soft enough add a little milk or cream, 
or melted butter. Shape into flat cakes % i^ich thick. Roll 
in bread crumbs and saute in butter. 

If desired the nutmeg may be omitted and 2 T grated 
cheese added. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the coffee, then shape and saute the rice cakes. 
Serve the apples, then the rest of the breakfast. 



164 LESSONS IN COOKING 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 9^ 

SCALLOPED SALMON AND SPAGHETTI 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS CURRANT JELLY 

TEA 

Scalloped Salmon and Spaghetti 

Break ^ c spaghetti into short pieces, cover with boihng 
salted water and boil until tender, about 20 m. Free i 
can of salmon from the bones and the skin, lay in layers 
in a baking dish, alternating with the spaghetti. Pour 
over all i c Thin White Sauce (p. 38, i T flour, 2 T 
butter, I c milk), seasoned well with salt, pepper, and i T 
lemon juice. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake 20 m 
in a moderate oven. 
Baking-powder Biscuits 

2 c flour, 4 t baking-powder, ij^ t salt, i T shortening, 
^ c milk or water, — p. 24. 
Preparing the Meal 

Forty minutes before lunch time cook the spaghetti, or 
cook it in the morning after breakfast. One-half hour be- 
fore serving prepare the scalloped dish and while baking 
make the biscuits and tea. Serve the luncheon. 

Wednesday DINNER Lesson 95 

ROAST QUAIL GREEN GRAPE JELLY 

BROWN GRAVY 

POTATO CUBES BROWNED PARSNIPS 

PEACH SPONGE CAKE 

Roast Q :il 

Dress, clean, truss (Helpful Suggestions, p. loi. Part 
HI), and lard the breast and legs of the quails. Rub with 
salt and melted butter and dredge with flour. Lay on rack in 
small baking pan, surrounded with strips of fat pork, bake 
25 or 30 m in a medium hot oven, basting every 10 m. 
Arrange on a platter, removing strings and skewers, garn- 
ish with Potato Cubes sprinkled with chopped parsley. 
Brown Gravy 

To the fat in the pan of which there should be 2 T 
add 3 T browned flour. Mix well and add i c milk or 
water. Season with salt and pepper. 



JANUARY MENUS 165 

Potato Cubes 

Boil potatoes, cut into i inch cubes, dip in egg diluted 
with half milk, roll in coarse breadcrumbs and brown in 
the oven. 
Peach Sponge Cake 

Make a sponge cake according to directions given in 
L. 54, p. 87, for Washington Pie using half the recipe. Bake 
in 2 layers, spread one layer with chopped preserved 
peaches, lay the other layer on the top, cover with whipped 
cream, and lay peaches cut lengthwise into eighths on top. 
Browned Parsnips 

In 2 T butter, brown 4 parsnips, halved and parboiled. 
Preparing the Meal 

One hour before serving put the parsnips and potatoes 
on to boil. Have the quails dressed and trussed ready for 
the oven. Make the sponge cake for the dessert, then 30 m 
before dinner time put the quails into the oven. Drain 
potatoes, cut into cubes, and prepare with egg and crumbs. 
Then if the sponge cake is done put together with the 
peaches and cream. Drain, halve the parsnips, and put with 
the potatoes into the oven to brown. Remove the quails to 
a hot platter and make the gravy. Serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 96 

CREAM OF WHEAT WITH SLICED BANANAS 

BREAD CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES MAPLEINE SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Bread Crumb Griddle Cakes 

Add i>4 c scalded milk and 2 T butter to ij^ c stale 
bread crumbs. Soak until the crumbs are soft. Add 2 eggs, 
well beaten, then ^ c flour, ^ t salt, and 4 t baking- 
powder sifted together. Bake on a hot gi-iddle. 
Mapleine Syrup 

Boil together 2 c sugar, 2/3 c water and i t "Mapleine" 
until a moderately thick syrup is formed. Remove from 
the fire and use as needed. 
Cream of Wheat 

Use ^i c cream of wheat and 4 c boiling water (p. 17), 
and pour half into moulds for frying the next morning. 



166 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal, put the bread crumbs to soak and 
make the Mapleine syrup. Make the coffee, then the grid- 
dle cakes. Begin baking, then serve the cereal. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 97 

SCALLOPED QUAIL 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES BREAD AND BUTTER 

SUGAR COOKIES TEA 

Scalloped Quail 

Remove all the meat from the bones of the quails left 
from dinner the preceding evening. Add an equal quan- 
tity of brovv^ned crumbs. Mix well, put into a baking dish, 
and pour over all as much well-seasoned Thin White Sauce 
(p. 38) as there is meat. Cover the top with buttered 
crumbs and bake until well heated throughout and the top 
browned. 

Hashed Browned Potatoes 

Chop cold cooked potatoes very fine. Those left from 
the potato cubes the preceding evening may be used. 
There should be i>4 c. Add >^ t salt and a dash of pep- 
per, and if desired, i T each finely chopped onion and 
parsley. Put 2 T fat, either butter, bacon fat, or fat tried 
out of salt pork, into a frying pan; when hot put in the 
potatoes, heat quickly and thoroughly. Press into one side 
of the pan to form an omelet and when well browned re- 
move to a hot platter. 

Preparing the Meal 

One-half hour before lunch time prepare and bake the 
scalloped quail, then brown the potatoes, which have been 
chopped fine and seasoned properly. Make the tea and 
serve the luncheon. 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 98 

BOILED CORNED BEEF 

BOILED POTATOES CABBAGE AND TURNIPS 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 



JANUABT MENUS 167 

Boiled Corned Beef 

Select 4 pounds of good corned beef, the brisket piece 
being considered the finest grained, but as it is fatter, it is 
sometimes not so desirable. Rinse the meat in cold water, 
fasten in shape, and put on to cook in cold water. Remove 
the scum after it has boiled 5 or 10 m, then let simmer 
slowly until tender. This may take 5 or 6 h. 

Three-quarters of an hour before serving, pare and quar- 
ter the potatoes and turnips, and let stand in cold water 
until needed. Remove the large coarse leaves from the out- 
side of a head of cabbage ; cut into eighths. Remove the 
meat from the water and set in a warm place. Skim the 
fat from the liquor and add the potatoes, turnips and cab- 
bage. The large outside leaves of the cabbage may also be 
cooked and used for soup the next day. 

Serve the Corned Beef on a platter surrounded by the 
potatoes and turnips. The cabbage should be placed in a 
separate dish. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 

Cream 3 T butter, add .2/3 c sugar gradually, and i egg 
well beaten. Mix and sift 2>4 c flour, 4^^ t baking-powder, 
and 54 t salt. Add to the creamed mixture alternating 
with I c milk; then add 2^ ounces of chocolate, melted. 
Turn into a greased mould, cover and steam 2 h. Serve 
with Cream Sauce. 

Cream Sauce 

Cream }i c butter, add i c powdered sugar gradually, 
^ t vanilla, and ^ c heavy cream beaten until stiff. Serve 
with the Chocolate Pudding. 

Preparing the Meal 

Put the Corned Beef on to cook about 5 hours before 
dinner, unless one has a fireless cooker, in which case 8 to 
10 h are needed. Two h before dinnertime make the pud- 
ding and set to steam over the meat. One h before serv- 
ing prepare the vegetables, remove the meat and put the 
vegetables on to cook, being careful in moving the steamer 
not to jar it, and thus cause the pudding to fall. Also have 
the liquor boiling when the vegetables are added. Make the 
Cream Sauce for the pudding. Serve the dinner. 



168 LESSONS IN COOKING 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 99 

ORANGES 

GRAPE-NUTS CREAM AND SUGAR 

FRIED CREAM OF WHEAT BROWN SUGAR SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Fried Cream of Wheat 

Cut the moulded Cream of Wheat into sHces about J^ 
inch thick. Follow directions given on p. 124 for Fried 
Mush. 
Brown Sugar Syrup 

Use I c brown sugar, y^ c water, i t butter, % t salt, 
3/2 t vanilla. See p. 27, Mock Maple Syrup. 
Preparing the Meal 

Remove the skin from the oranges. Beginning with the 
stem end separate the sections, leaving them fastened at 
the blossom end. Open like a flower and lay on a fruit 
plate. If only half is desired as a service cut in half be- 
fore separating into sections. 

Prepare the Cream of Wheat for frying; make the 
syrup and coffee, and fry the Cream of Wheat. Serve the 
fruit and cereal, then the rest of the breakfast. 

Friday LUNCHEON OR SUPPER Lesson 100 

CORNED BEEF HASH CATSUP 

MUFFINS DAMSON PLUM SAUCE 

TEA 

Corned Beef Hash 

Remove the skin and gristle and most of the fat from 
the Corned Beef, put the meat through the meat grinder. 
Add an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes, season well, 
moisten with milk or cream, put into a hot buttered frying 
pan, spread evenly and let cook slowly, forming a brown 
crust on the bottom. Fold like an omelet and turn onto a hot 
platter. Serve with Tomato Catsup. 
Muffins 

Use 2 c flour, 5^ t salt, 4 t baking-powder, 2 T sugar, i 
egg, lyi c milk, 2 T melted butter (p. 17). 
Preparing the Meal 

Allow 35 m to make and bake the muffins; while bak- 
'ng make the hash. Make the tea and serve the lunch. 



JANUABY MENUS 169 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 101 

CREAM OF CABBAGE SOUP 

ROAST SHOULDER OF VEAL STUFFED 

POTATOES A LA ANNA PARSNIP TIMBALES 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

Press through a sieve the cabbage left from the preced- 
ing day. There should be at least i c of pulp. To this add 

1 pint of milk and i c of the liquor in which the meat 
and cabbage were cooked. Bind with 2 T butter and 2 T 
flour. Season with salt, pepper, and a little celery salt. 

Shoulder of Veal 

Have the butcher remove the bone from a small shoulder 
of veal. Stufif, and sew or skewer into shape. Season 
well, cover with strips of salt pork, and bake slowly for 

2 h, basting frequently. 

Stuffing 

Mix I c cracker or breadcrumbs with i sprig of sweet 
majoram or thyme. Season with salt and pepper and i T 
chopped onion. Add 3^ c scalded milk or water and K c 
melted butter. 
Potatoes a la Anna 

Wash, pare and quarter medium-sized potatoes. Make an 
incision halfway through each one and insert a thin 
slice of onion. Lay in the pan with the veal and baste with 
the gravy. Bake until tender. 
Parsnip Timbales 

Scrape 4 good-sized parsnips, keeping them in cold 
water, cut in halves or quarters until needed. Cook in 
boiling salted water until tender. Drain and mash through 
a colander. Add 2 beaten eggs and >4 c milk. Season 
with I t salt, dash of pepper, and i t onion juice. Bake 
in greased timbale moulds or in a shallow pan. Serve 
either plain or with a Medium White Sauce (p. 38). 
Pineapple Tapioca 

Cook together in a double-boiler 2 T Minute Tapioca, i 
c water, i c grated pineapple, 2 T sugar, and yk t salt 
for 25 m or until the tapioca is clear. Serve hot or cold, 
either plain or with cream. Mould if desired. 



170 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

Stuff the veal and start to baking 2 h before dinner. 
Prepare and cook the parsnips. Prepare the potatoes and ^ 
h before dinner put them in the pan with the roast. Then 
prepare the Parsnip Timbales. While baking, make the 
Pine-apple Tapioca and the Cream of Cabbage Soup. 

Saturday BREAKFAST Lesson 102 

SLICED BANANAS AND CREAM 
EGGS A LA SUISSE ON TOAST COFFEE 

Eggs a la Suisse on Toast 

In a flat pan set over hot water melt i T butter. Add 
y2 c cream. Break 4 eggs, one at a time, on a wet saucer, 
and slip carefully into the hot cream. Sprinkle with salt 
and paprika. When partially set, sprinkle with 2 T grated 
cheese. Cover and let stand until set. Serve each egg 
on a round of toast and pour surplus cream around each. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the toast and coffee. Start the eggs to cooking, then 
just before serving the fruit add the cheese. Cover and let 
stand until read to serve. 

SATURDAY MORNING BAKING 
Doughnuts 

Cream i c sugar, 2 eggs, and 3 T melted butter well 
together; add i t salt and }i t nutmeg. Sift 4 t baking- 
powder with 2 c flour, then add to the sugar mixture, alter- 
nating with I c milk or water. Add sufficient flour to roll, 
probably i c or more. Handle dough as little as possible. 
Roll Yz inch thick. Cut and fry in deep fat. 

Note — If sour milk is used, ^ t soda and 2 t baking- 
powder should be used, instead of 4 t baking-powder. 
Mock Cherry Pie 

Chop together i c cranberries and ^ c raisins ; add i c 
sugar and 2 T flour mixed together, then add y^ c cold 
water. Bake with 2 crusts, following directions given on 
p. 130 for pastry. 
Oatmeal Macaroons 

Rub I T butter into J^ C sugar and mix with i well- 
beaten egg. Stir into the mixture i^ c rolled oats, ^ t 



JANUARY MENUS 171 

salt, I t baking-powder. Drop from a teaspoon about an 
inch apart on greased pans and bake in a moderately hot 
oven until crisp and brown. 
Egg and Tomato Jelly Salad 

Cook I pint of tomatoes, a bit of bay leaf, a slice of 
onion, and a stalk of celery 15 m; soften ^ package of 
gelatine in J/2 c cold water ; add to the tomatoes and strain. 

Cut 2 hard-cooked eggs in half, dip in liquid gelatine, 
press against the sides of 4 chilled cups ; when set fill 
with the tomato mixture. Unmould on shredded lettuce and 
serve very cold with mayonnaise. 

Method of Work 

Immediately after breakfast prepare the filling for the 
Mock Cherry Pie, then make the pastry and bake the pie. 
Next make and bake the Oatmeal Macaroons. While 
making the doughnuts have the fat heating, and when hot 
enough to brown a bit of bread in 40 seconds, 360° F. (p. 
103), fry the doughnuts, draining them on brown paper. 

While frying the doughnuts the tomatoes and eggs for 
the salad may be cooking. Also the gelatine may be 
soaking. 

When the doughnuts are done finish the salad and set 
away in a cool place. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 103 

VEAL AND POTATO ROLL 

BREAD AND BUTTER FRESH DOUGHNUTS 

TEA 

Veal and Potato Roll 

Grind enough veal left from the preceding dinner to 
make 2 c. Chop the potatoes left, there should be i c, 
and add to the ground meat. Season with i t salt, dash 
pepper, and add i unbeaten egg. Mix well, form into a 
roll about 6 inches long, and place in a baking pan with }^ 
c stock or water and i T butter. Bake 15 or 20 m, basting 
once or twice. Serve either plain or with Brown Gravy or 
Tomato Sauce. 
Preparing the Meal 

About yz h before lunch time prepare the veal and potato 



172 LESSONS IN COOKING 

roll. While it is baking, set the table, cut the bread and 
butter, place some fresh doughnuts on the table, and make 
txie tea. Serve the lunch. 

Saturday DINNER Lesson 104 

PORK CHOPS 

MASHED POTATOES STEWED TOMATOES 

LETTUCE SALAD 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

Pork Chops 

Have the chops cut about ^ inch thick, trim off super- 
fluous fat, and saute slowly until well browned and thor- 
oughly cooked. This will take about 25 m. 

Lettuce Salad 

Wash lettuce leaves thoroughly and chill. Shred and ar- 
range on salad plates with slices of cold hard-cooked eggs. 
Serve with French Dressing if desired. 

French Dressing 

Mix well ^ t salt, % t pepper, and 34 t mustard, also 
a few grains of cayenne or paprika. Add 6 T olive oil, 
and when well mixed add slowly, drop by drop, 6 T lemon 
juice or vinegar. Beat until an emulsion is formed, then 
pour over the salad. Use just enough dressing for the 
salad material to absorb. None should be seen in the bot- 
tom of the dish. 

Mashed Potatoes 

See p. 15. 4 potatoes, V/z T butter, lyi X. salt, ^ c hot 
milk or cream. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

See p. 44. I can tomatoes, i t salt, 2 T sugar, 2 T 
butter, 2 T flour. 

For Mock Cherry Pie, see Saturday Baking, page 170. 

Preparing the Meal 

About y^. h before dinner time wash and pare the po- 
tatoes and put on to cook in boiling salted water. Open 
a can of tomatoes, season and slowly stew for ^ h. Now 
trim the chops and start to sauteing. While the meat is 
cooking wash the lettuce, shred, and while chilling make 
the French Dressing. Cut the pie made in the morning 



JANUARY MENUS 173 

and arrange on pie-plates for serving. Drain and mash the 
potatoes, and serve the dinner. 

Sunday BREAKFAST Lesson 105 

BAKED APPLES 

FARINA — CREAM AND SUGAR 

DATE MUFFINS COFFEE 

Baked Apples 

Wash and core 6 medium-sized apples, Jonathan pre- 
ferred. Place in a baking pan, fill the centers with sugar, 
and sprinkle % c more sugar over and around them. Also 
add 3^ c hot water and i T butter. Bake in a moderate 
oven until tender, about 30 m. 

Date Muffins 

Cream Ys c butter, add ^4 c sugar and 34 pound dates, 
chopped fine. Add alternately i egg, beaten and mixed with 
^ c milk, and 2 c flour, sifted with 4 t baking-powder. 
Bake in a hot oven about 25 m. 

Farina 

Use ^ c farina, 2 c boiling water, Y t salt (p. 17, under 
Cream of Wheat). 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal, then quickly prepare the apples and 
place in the oven. Make the Muffins and while baking 
make the coffee and prepare the table. The apples may be 
baked on Saturday, but are especially nice when freshly 
baked. 

Serve the fruit, then the cereal, and lastly, the muffins 
and coffee. 

o A DINNER 

Sunday Lesson 106 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

MASHED POTATOES SPINACH 

EGG AND TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

MOCK BAVARIAN CREAM 

Fricassee of Chicken 

Separate a 3-pound chicken into pieces at the joints; 
wash and rinse carefully. Put into a saucepan with i quart 



174 LESSONS IN COOKING 

of cold water, an onion with a clove pressed into it, a bit 
of bay leaf, and i t salt. Bring the water quickly to the 
boiling point, boil lo m, skim off the coagulated juices 
which rise to the top, then lower the flame and simmer 
until the chicken is tender. Drain from the broth. 

Melt % c butter, add ^ c flour, salt and pepper to taste, 
and when blended add the chicken broth gradually, strain- 
ing out the vegetables; simmer 15 m. Beat the yolks of 4 
eggs, add a little of the hot broth gradually, then stir into 
the hot mixture. Add the pieces of chicken and reheat 
over hot water. Serve garnished with toast points. 

Bavarian Cream 

Whip 2 c single cream and drain the whip. Scald ^ c 
cream that is drained from the whip, adding milk if neces- 
sary to make the full amount, with j^ c sugar; add the 
yolk of 2 eggs, beaten and mixed with ^ c sugar, % t 
salt, and cook as a soft custard. When the liquid will coat 
the spoon, remove from the fire and add ^ package gela- 
tine soaked in % c cold water ; strain. Set in a pan of ice 
water and stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
fold in the whip from the cream and i t vanilla. Pour 
into a mould and set in a cold place; or, better, pack in 
salt and ice until firm. 
Mock Bavarian Cream 

In this case no cream need be used, but the whites of 6 
eggs, 4 left from the chicken and 2 more, beaten stiff, may 
be substituted. Make the custard with the yolks of 2 eggs, 
^c of milk, etc., as above. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Use 4 potatoes, i^ T butter, % c hot milk or cream, ^ 
t salt (p. 15). 

Spinach 

Heat can of spinach, add i t salt, dash pepper, i T vinegar, 
I T butter. 

For Egg and Tomato Jelly Salad see Saturday Morning 
Baking (p. 171). 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before dinner prepare the chicken for fric- 
asseeing and put on to cook. Then make and mould the 



JANUABY MENUS 175 

Bavarian Cream. Wash and pare the potatoes and let stand 
in cold water until needed. Open a can of spinach and pre- 
pare for heating later. 

About y2 h before dinner cook the potatoes in boiling 
salted water, also heat the spinach, seasoning to taste. 

Unmould the salad made the previous day on a bed of 
shredded lettuce and put in a cool place until needed. 

Remove the chicken from the broth and make the sauce. 
Drain and mash the potatoes, reheat the chicken and serve 
the dinner. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 107 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER 

OATMEAL MACAROONS CHERRIES 

TEA 

Scalloped Oysters 

Carefully wash and look over i quart of oysters, remov- 
ing all particles of shell, etc. 

Add I c each cracker and breadcrumbs to J^ c melted 
butter and mix well; sprinkle the bottom of a buttered 
baking dish with crumbs, then place on these a layer of 
cleaned oysters, and dust with salt and pepper. Add alter- 
nately layers of crumbs and oysters, having the top layer 
crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven 15 or 20 m. A shal- 
low dish should be selected for oysters, so that they may 
be quickly heated and cooked, as long cooking at high 
temperature toughens the oysters and destroys their delicate 
flavor. 

Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before suppertime wash the oysters and 
prepare them for scalloping. While baking cut the brown 
bread, open a can of cherries and empty into a fruit dish; 
put some oatmeal macaroons on a plate and place all on 
the table. Make the tea and serve the supper. 



176 LESSONS IN COOKING 

ONE O'CLOCK INFORMAL LUNCHEON 

Lesson 108 

OYSTERS A LA CREOLE IN TIMBALES 

BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

CUCUMBER AND SWEETBREAD SALAD CHEESE WAFERS 

IMPERIAL CREAM 

COFFEE SALTED ALMONDS 

Colors — Pink and White 
Table Decorations — Pink and White Roman Hyacinths. 

Oysters a la Creole 

Drain i quart of oysters, wash and remove all bits of 
shell from each one. If very large cut in half. 

Scald I pint of milk or cream. Thicken with }i c butter 
and y2 c flour, made into a roux. Season with salt, pepper, 
3^ t onion juice, i T lemon juice, i T chopped parsley and 
2 T chopped pimentoes. Cook until thick and creamy, then 
add the oysters. When plump serve in Timbale Cases. 
Timbale Cases 

Beat 2 eggs slightly, add i c milk. Sift i c flour and 
}i t salt together. Add enough of the egg and milk to 
make a batter that can be beaten smooth and velvety, then 
add the rest of the liquid. Fry with a timbale iron in 
deep fat. 

Timbale Frying 

The best iron for frying is the hollow one which fills 
with the hot mixture and cooks from the inside as well 
as the out. When frying turn the timbale batter into a 
cup, lower the hot iron into the cup so that the batter 
comes within yz inch of the top. Remove quickly and im- 
merse in the hot fat. When crisp and brown remove from 
the fat, turn the iron upside down to drain, then slip from 
the iron onto brown paper. Turn over and drain the 
inside. If the cases are soft, rather than crisp, the batter 
is too thick, and should be diluted with milk. 

Cucumber and Sweetbread Salad 

Prepare two pair of sweetbreads according to directions 
given on p. 138. Cool and cut into dice. Have ready an 
equal quantity of cucumber cubes standing in salted ice 



JANUARY MENUS 177 

water. Soak 2 T gelatine in 34 c cold water, then dissolve 
in I c boiling water. Add 4 T lemon juice, salt and pep- 
per. While cooling whip i pint of double cream until stiff. 
Add the gelatine, the sweetbreads and the cucumbers. Fold 
all together, turn into moulds wet with cold water, either 
individual or one large mould. The latter should be square 
so that the salad may be cut in good serving pieces. Serve 
on a lettuce leaf with French Dressing or Mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Mix I t mustard, i t salt, i t powdered sugar and a 
dash of cayenne with the yolks of 2 eggs ; then add, a 
few drops at a time, i^ c olive oil. As the mixture thick- 
ens thin with 2 T lemon juice or 2 T vinegar, a few drops 
at a time at first, alternating with the oil. If desired, add 
^ c cream, beaten stiff, or the whites of 2 eggs stiffly 
beaten, just before serving. 

In making Mayonnaise have the ingredients cold; if 
necessary set in ice water; work quickly, using a wooden 
spoon during the first part of the process, then a Dover 
egg-beater as the Dressing gets thick and heavy. If it 
begins to separate, break the yolk of an egg into another 
bowl and slowly beat the separated mixture into that. 

Imperial Cream 

Beat I quart of double cream stiff, add ^c powdered 
sugar and 34 t salt; beat well. Cut and fold in 2 c dry 
cake crumbs and i c each candied pine-apple, cherries and 
nuts, cut fine. Set on the ice and serve very cold in 
sherbet glasses. 

Salted Almonds 

Blanche yi pound of almonds according to directions 
given below : 

Process I : Place on a shallow pan in the oven, stir 
occasionally until a rich, golden brown. Remove from the 
oven, add i T butter and >4 t sah. Stir well and turn out 
on brown paper. 

Process II : Heat fat to 380 Fahr., or hot enough to 
brown bread in 20 seconds. Put the nuts into a frying 
basket and lower into the hot fat until golden brown. Turn 
out onto brown paper and dust with salt. 



178 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Process III: Saute the nuts in 2 T butter until golden 
brown. Sprinkle with salt and turn out onto brown paper 
to dry. 

French Dressing 

One-half t salt, }i t mustard, }i t pepper, dash cayenne, 
6 T olive oil, 6 T lemon juice or vinegar. Add the lemon 
juice or vinegar very slowly to the oil and seasoning, mixed 
together. Have all material and dishes very cold. 

Preparing the Luncheon 

Make the timbale cases the first thing in the morning. 
Have the sweetbreads cooking while the timbales are being 
made. Soak the gelatine in cold water. Cut and dice the 
cucumbers and cover with boiling salted water ; let stand i 
m; drain, and cover with salt ice water. Let stand until 
ready for use. Dissolve the gelatine and finish the salad. 
Blanch and salt the almonds. 

Prepare the cake crumbs, fruit and nuts for the dessert. 
If dry cake is not on hand vanilla wafers or macaroons 
may be used. Dry thoroughly and roll. 

Make the salad dressing. Prepare the lettuce, wrap in 
a damp cloth and keep in a cool place. Whip the cream 
for the dessert and prepare the table. Wash the oysters, 
measure the ingredients for the cream sauce. Make the 
sandwiches, put in a bowl and cover with a damp cloth. 

Measure the cofifee, letting it stand in cold water. Sweeten 
the cream, add the fruit, and let stand in a cool place. 

When everything is ready, 10 m before time for serving 
prepare the oysters and heat the coffee. 



JANUARY MENUS— COST AND FOOD VALUE— FOUR PERSONS. 



Supplies — Cost 

6 lbs. Flour $0.18 

% lb. Cornmeal 0:^72 

4 lbs. Bread 20 

1 lb. Brown Bread 10 

1 lb. Crackers 12 

% pkg. Oatmeal 02 Va 

% pkg. Pettijohn 01% 

% pkg. Cream of Wheat. . .02 

% pkg. Grape-Nuts 0£i^ 

% pkg. Farina 02 

Va lb. Rice . .04 

Ys lb. Pearl Barley 01 

% lb. Spaghetti 02 

5 lbs. Sugar 30 

1 pt. Syrup 06 

Va pt. Currant Jelly 12 

% pt. Green Grape Jelly.. .15 
% pt. Plum Preserves... .15 

2 Calves' Hearts 20 

1 lb. Lamb Chops 16 

1 lb. Ham 15 

1 can Salmon 18 

4 Quails 80 

4 lbs Corned Beef 40 

4 lbs. Veal Roast 60 

2 lbs. Pork Chops 36 

3 lbs. Chicken 51 

1 qt. Oysters 40 

3% doz. Eggs 1.10 

6 qts. Milk 48 

1 qt. Cream 40 

Va lb. Cheese 10 

3 lbs. Butter 96 

% pt. Olive Oil 49 

1 pk. Potatoes 40 

2 cans Tomatoes 20 

i/a pk. Parsnips 16 

1 qt. Onions 08 

1 Cabbage 04% 

4 Turnips 05 

1 can Spinach 15 

1 bunch Celery 10 

Head of Lettuce 10 

1 can Pears 15 

% pk. Apples 20 

% doz. Bananas 09 

1 Lemon 02% 

3 Oranges 09 

1 can Cherries 20 

% can Peaches 14 

% can Pineapple 08 

% pt. Cranberries 04 

% lb. Raisins 08 

Va lb. Dates 05 

% lb. Figs 05 

% lb. Nutmeats 12 

% pkg. Gelatine 05 

2 oz. Chocolate 05 

% oz. Cocoa 02 

% lb. Coffee 22' 

1 oz. Tea 04 



Total 

9,840 

1,086 

4,820 

1,147 

1,600 

852 

426 

354 

213 

354 

816 

62 

400 

9,300 

2,000 

1,000 

1,000 

1,000 

1,600 

800 

1,600 

1,072 

800 

4,440 

1,920 

1,600 

1,200 

1,250 

3,490 

3,900 

1,820 

1,028 

10,815 

3,169 

2,247 

420 

1,600 

400 

217 

100 

300 

50 

100 

400 

880 

450 

36 

255 

400 

200 

100 

100 

600 

725 

300 

484 

100 

300 

72 



-FOOD UNITS- 

Pkotein 

1,180 

98 

626 

181 

, 144 

154 

77 

53 

38 

53 

72 

6 

60 



752 
192 
304 
320 
632 

2,398 
806 
288 
948 
123 

1,118 

741 

91 

258 

54 

*247 

88 

160 

48 

43 

13 

45 

12 

25 

12 

26 

21 

3 

15 

20 

8 

4 

3 

18 

14 

15 

96 

19 

24 

12 



Fat 

294 

119 

290 

38 

320 

60 

30 

18 

15 

18 

8 

2 

8 



848 

608 

1,296 

752 

168 

2,042 

1,114 

1,312 

252 

55 

2,372 

2,028 

1,565 

750 

10,761 

3,169 

22 

30 

112 

160 

18 

4 

198 

2 

14 

16 

62 

24 

5 

9 

40 

4 

6 

12 

54 

51 

305 

2i6 
38 



Starch 
& Sugar 

8,366 
869 

3,904 
928 

1,136 
638 
319 
283 
160 
283 
736 
54 
332 

9,300 



000 
000 
000 
000 



72 

isi 

164 
20 



1,978 

302 

1,328 

192 

156 

83 

57 

36 

61 

372 

792 

405 

28 

231 

340 

188 

90 

85 

528 

660 

285 

83 

81 

60 

22 



Total for the Week... $11.59% 86,610 12,758 31,714 42,138 
Food Units per Day — 12,372. Food Units per Day per Person — 3,093. 
Cost of Food per Day — $1 :64. Cost 7per Day per Person — $0.41. 
Of the Total Food Value 15% is Protein^ 37% is Fat and 48% is 
Starch and Sugar. 

179 



180 LESSONS IN COOKING 

SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING THE COST OF 
JANUARY MEALS 

Use oleomargarine for cooking, top of milk for the coffee 
and cereal, and half water in all recipes calling for milk. 

In Lesson 90 serve plain baked onions instead of 
creamed ; also substitute plain baked apples for apple farci, 
omitting the cream. In Lesson 91 omit the lamb chops and 
use dry toast in place of cornmeal muffins. 

In Lesson 93 omit the celery and apple salad, also the 
sabyon sauce. Use l4 pound cheese in place of i can 
salmon with the spaghetti in Lesson 95. During the hunt- 
ing season if quails must be purchased for Lesson 96 sub- 
stitute I pound of veal steak, making mock pigeons. Also 
omit the green grape jelly. 

In Lesson 99 omit the cream sauce and in Lesson 100 
the oranges. In Lesson loi substitute plain bread for muf- 
fins, and in Lesson 102, 2 pounds lamb fricassee for 4 
pounds veal roast. The stuffing then will not be necessary. 
Also use creamed parsnips instead of parsnip timbales. 

In Lesson 105 serve plain lettuce instead of lettuce salad, 
omitting salad dressing throughout all the meals, or use 
"salad oil." In Lesson 106 use dry toast instead of date 
muffins. In Lesson 107 omit the egg and tomato jelly salad, 
and in 108 use i pint of oysters instead of i quart, adding 
more bread crumbs. 

ESTIMATED EEDUCTION. 

3 pounds Butter less Oleo.$0.18 Stuffing 05 

1 quart Cream 40 Parsnip Timbales less 

2 quarts Milk 16 Cream Parsnips 06 

IVz c Medium Wliite Sauce .06 OUve Oil 49 

Filling for Apple Farci... .16 Date Muffins 14 

1 pound Lamb Chops 16 Egg and Tomato Jelly 

Cornmeal Muffins 14 Salad 14 

Celery & Apple Salad 23 1 pint Oysters 20 

Sabyon Sauce 11 

1 can Salmon $0.18 less Vi $4.38 
pound cheese $0.04 14 Original Total Cost $11.59 

Quails 80 Eeduction 4.38 

Green Grape Jelly 15 

Cream Sauce 12 $ 7.21 

2 Oranges 06 $1.03 Cost per Day. 

Muffins 11 $0.26 Cost per Day per Person. 

4 pounds Veal Eoast $0.16 
less 2 pounds Lamb Fri- 
cassee $0.28 32 



FEBRUARY MENUS 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

Part VI 



PLANNING OF MEALS 

Those who have followed the lessons thus far have pre- 
pared a considerable number of well-balanced meals. It is 
time that we considered some of the principles involved in 
the planning of such menus. 

It is hardly necessary to say that meals should be planned 
several days ahead, each meal and each day hinging to the 
preceding one. In this way desirable combinations can be 
made with very little or no waste. If the meal is prepared 
without planning the housekeeper must use what she hap- 
pens to have on hand and a badly balanced meal and poor 
combinations too often result. Or if a market is near she 
is apt to get an expensive piece of meat which can be cooked 
quickly and easily. The bits of meat and vegetables left 
from the preceding day are often wasted, as there is not 
enough of any one to use and no thought has been given 
on how to combine them. In such cases the expense for 
food mounts up amazingly, the family is not satisfied or 
well nourished, and the housekeeper is hurried and worried. 

Let us take as a basis for the planning and preparation 
of meals, three points, — a balanced dietary, pleasing com- 
binations, and economy of time and money. 

Balanced Dietary- 
It is not necessary to spend time figuring perfect balance 
of food principles in family meals, but it is necessary to 
have a general idea of the composition of foods (see Part 
I, page V, and pages 114-118), and to be careful that not 
too much protein, or fat, or starch and sugar be served in a 
meal. 

The following examples of combinations often served in 
poorly balanced meals will illustrate this point : 

Copyright, 1912, by Home Economics Association. 

181 



182 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Beef, macaroni and cheese, peas, — too high in protein. 

Peasotip, meat, cheese, custard, — too high in protein. 

Beef or mutton, baked beans, Indian pudding, — too high 
in protein. 

Pork, fried potatoes, rich pudding with butter sauce, — 
too high in fat. 

Pork, vegetable with butter sauce, salad with mayonnaise 
dressing, whipped cream dessert, — too high in fat. 

Light meat, potatoes, sweet potatoes, corn, rice pudding, 
— too high in starch. 

Combination rice and meat, potatoes, beets, blanc mange, 
— too high in starch. 

Meat, candied sweet potatoes, jelly, kisses, and rich pre- 
serves, — too high in sugar. 

The tendency in well-to-do American families is to serve 
meals containing too high a proportion of protein and fat, 
and especially to serve too much. The total "food value" 
in the food eaten should depend chiefly on the amount of 
physical activity taken by members of the family. The 
menu for a farmer's family should contain more heavy, rich 
foods than that of a family in which the occupations are 
sedentary. The menus given in the Lessons are about an 
average, neither very heavy or light. 

If the dinner is divided into four main courses — soup, 
meat, salad and dessert — plan to have two heavy and two 
light courses, such as cream soup, light meat, rich salad and 
light dessert ; or clear soup, heavy meat, light salad and rich 
dessert. In a three-course dinner, make two of the courses 
moderately heavy and the third light, or in a three-course 
luncheon or supper have two courses light and the third 
heavy. 

Pleasing Combinations 

That good digestion depends to a considerable extent on 
pleasurable taste in eating has been proved scientifically as 



FEBBUABY MENUS 183 

well as by the experience of the ages. It is true that "ap- 
petite is the best sauce" and that abundant outdoor exercise 
gives good appetite. But not everyone can have a keen 
appetite at all times, so that pleasing combinations are im- 
portant from the standpoint of health. 

Foods have the following characteristics or contrasts: 
Heavy or light ; strong flavored or mild flavored ; moist or 
dry ; crisp or soft ; acid or sweet ; hot or cold. 

A meal should have contrast and variety ; it should not be 
composed all of one kind of food, as all heavy or all strong 
flavored dishes, or all soft or all dry and so on. 

Mild flavored foods, like bread or potatoes, can be eaten 
in considerable quantities in a meal, but the appetite revolts 
at large amounts of strong flavored foods, like turnips, cauli- 
flower, game, cheese, etc. 

In simple combinations and made dishes the strong 
flavored food should be much less in quantity than the mild 
flavored food, as bread and cheese, macaroni and tomatoes, 
baked beans and ketchup. 

Creamed potatoes should not be served when there is 
gravy, but should be served with a dry meat. Moist meats 
such as stews, etc., should be served with dry vegetables. 
Plain sponge or butter cakes or cookies, not rich layer cakes, 
should be served with ice cream and whipped cream desserts, 
etc. Acid sauces should be served with rich puddings. 

In a well-planned dinner of five courses the soup should 
be light, giving a stimulant to the appetite; it should be 
served with croutons or crackers, which furnish dryness or 
crispness. If fish were used it should be light, served with 
an acid sauce or relish. The main course of meat would be 
heavy, fairly strong flavored. The vegetables would be 
soft and moist and in general mild flavored, or only one 
strong in flavor. The salad should be crisp, cold and light, 
and the dessert warm, moderately heavy and sweet. 



184 LESSONS IN COOKING 

In a recent magazine article Miss Caroline Hunt gives 
the following comparison between the art of planning meals 
and the art of painting: 

"A well-planned meal has something in common with a 
well-designed painting. The latter usually consists of a 
background of neutral colors, relieved here and there by 
bits of bright color, known as high lights. The background 
may be a forest in browns and greens and the high light 
may be the sun finding a way to one spot through the trees ; 
or the background may be an expanse of sea and the high 
light, the foam on the crest of the waves. 

"A well-planned meal has its background also. This con- 
sists usually of neutrally flavored foods : breads, meats, 
cereals. These should be touched up like the painting and 
relieved by small quantities of food having pronounced 
flavor : acid fruits, vinegar, capers, sweets. 

"Of the painting, it is idle to try to say whether its suc- 
cess is due more to background than to high lights or vice 
versa. The background sets off the bright bits of color and 
keeps them from clashing one with another ; the bits of color 
give charm to the somber expanse. So, too, with the meal. 
The breads, meats and cereals are the substantial part and 
absolutely necessary not only for health but also for the 
purpose of keeping the foods of pronounced flavor from 
clashing. The flavoring materials, on the other hand, are 
necessary oftentimes to make the more solid foods attractive 
and palatable, and authorities tell us now that good digestion 
waits on appetite." 

As in other arts, it is not possible to give definite and 
specific rules for the planning of successful meals. How- 
ever, keeping in mind the suggestions given, and with care- 
ful observation, the housekeeper should succeed in planning 
appetizing and wholesome meals. 



FEBEUABY MENUS 185 

Economy 

The greatest economy can be obtained in the household 
by (i) buying just enough for one meal of expensive foods, 
or those that cannot be done over, for example, lamb chops 
and such fresh vegetables as cauHflower; (2) using of left- 
overs in made dishes, and a judicious cooking of foods in 
such quantities that they may be used in this way when 
desired; for example, in cooking rice for supper, cook 
enough to have casserole of rice and meat, or rice croquettes, 
etc., the next day, and possibly a rice cream pudding for the 
second or third day. If the character and appearance of 
the dish is entirely changed, no objection will be made to 
the same food being served several days in succession. This 
takes planning and until one is used to it a little more work, 
but most acceptable and nutritious dishes will result when 
these leftovers are used intelligently. 

In buying meat plan a way to use as a leftover what can 
not be eaten after the first cooking. If, for instance, a por- 
terhouse steak is purchased, the tough end is usually left. 
By buying a little piece of round steak or some other 
coarser meat, say 5 cents worth, there will be enough for 
some made dish. Plan the vegetables two days ahead and 
cook in such quantity as will serve the purpose. Leftover 
potatoes can always be used to advantage, and it takes no 
more time or fuel to boil eight potatoes than four potatoes. 
This applies also to such vegetables as turnips, squash, etc. 
For instance, plan today to have creamed turnips ; when 
boiled take out enough for turnip souffle for the next 
day or the day after, and so with other vegetables. If there 
are a few spoonfuls of a vegetable left, apparently not 
enough for any one dish, study the combinations with other 
vegetables, such as beans and corn, carrots and peas, peas 
and potatoes, tomatoes and corn, etc., and make them -.ip 
into croquettes, scalloped dishes, etc., or put them into soups. 



186 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Even if your market does afford vegetables and fruits out 
of season, use them very rarely, for they are expensive and 
of poor flavor, and by the time they are in season and in 
good quality the appetite may no longer care for them. 

A point to be observed in planning a meal by those using 
gas, gasoline, etc., is the manner of cooking the various 
dishes. If, for example, the meat is to be roasted, the oven 
has to be heated, and consequently as many things should be 
cooked in the oven as possible; or if on top of the stove, 
plan to make one burner do the work of two or three by 
boiling and steaming. In this way economy in fuel will 
result. This, of course, does not apply so much to those 
using coal or wood stoves. 

Menu Suggestion Cards 

It is hard on the spur of the moment to think of the 
good things we know or of which we have heard. To help 
the memory the following suggestions may be of assistance : 

Prepare one large card or a series of small cards on the 
plan of the samples following, and when a desirable dish 
is thought of set it down under its proper heading, with the 
reference to the recipe and a word to describe the charac- 
ter. When planning menus glance over the card and you 
will almost always get some suggestion or help. If the 
small cards are used, keep in a small filing box in a con- 
venient place. 

SOUPS 
Light Heavy 

Bouillon (p. ) Cream of Pumpkin (p. ) 

Clear Tomato (p. ) Duchess Soup (cheese) (p. ) 

MEATS 
Fkesh Cuts Made Otek Dishes 

Plank Chops (quick) Meat Souffle (dry) 

Breaded Round Steak (long) Casserole Rice and Meat with 

Tomato Sauce (moist) 



FEBBUAR7 MENUS 



187 



VEGETABLES 



Fkesh 
Creamed Cauliflower (moist) 
Frencli Fried Potatoes (dry) 
French Potatoes (warmed over, dry) 



Made Over Dishes 
Potatoes au Gratin (moist) 
Turnip Souffle (moist) 



SALADS 



Light 
Cucumber and Radish 
Date and Orange 



Light 
French Dressing 
Vinaigrette Sauce 



Light 
Chocolate Soufflte (hot) 
Maple Parfait (cold) 



Plain 
Quick Sponge Cake 
Spice Loaf Cake 
Devil's Food Cake 



Sour 



Heavi 



Russian Salad 
Salmon Salad 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Heavy 
Mayonaisse Dressing 
Creamy Dressing 

DESSERTS 

Heavy 
Krummel Torta 
Strawberry Shortcake 

CAKES AND SWEETS 

Fancy 
Angel Food 

White Cake with Cream 
Nut Filling 



RELISHES 



Sweet 



Sour Pickles Corn Relish 

Chow Chow Mangoes 

Dill Pickles Sweet Pickles 

SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 

A luncheon for a school child should be prepared from 
two standpoints — wholesomeness and attractiveness. Only 
those foods which are nutritious and easily digested should 
be considered. The selection of food that is to be eaten 
cold requires much greater thought than that to be eaten 
hot. The nature of the child must also be taken into con- 
sideration. A quiet child who sits still most of the day 
should have lighter food than the robust, hearty child who 
romps and plays. The luncheons should be planned and 
prepared for days ahead just as the regular menus for the 
family, making the two fit in together. 



188 LESSONS IN COOKING 

The lunch box when opened should present an appetizing^ 
and attractive appearance. Food that cannot be packed or 
carried well should never be used. Each article should be 
packed by itself and all fitted in neatly and carefully. 

The following list of articles will be found most useful 
in preparing the luncheon: 



A light lunch box, or a basket well lined with paper. 

Oiled or parafine paper. 

Tiny screw-top jar for salt. 

Larger screw-top jar for preserves. 

Small spoon. 

Collapsible drinking cup. 

Paper napkins. 



There are a few points to be observed in regard to the 
food itself. 

Pie should be eliminated for two reasons — its unwhole- 
someness, and the fact that it cannot be carried well. Eggs 
should be cooked at a low temperature for a long time to 
make them digestible, and should be left in the shell. Sand- 
wiches should have the crust left on and be wrapped sepa- 
rately in oiled paper. Be careful not to use any filling for 
a sandwich the odor of which will permeate the lunch box. 
Chopped meat is much better to use than sliced meat, as it 
is more convenient and also more digestible, since a child 
seldom chews the meat as he ought to. Nut butter and 
chopped nuts make very nutritious and appetizing sand- 
wiches. Soft, rich cakes are not so good as brittle cookies. 
Oatmeal and graham crackers frosted make pleasant 
changes. 

Nuts are a valuable addition to the lunch box, furnishing 
not only nutrition but also attractiveness. A bit of sweet 
in the way of candy or chocolate, dates or figs may well be 



FEBEUAB7 MENUS 189 

used instead of cake. The Parisian Sweets, given on page 
I20, are exceptionally nice for this purpose. 

In putting fresh fruit into a lunch box, be careful to so 
wrap it that its odor will not penetrate the other food. 
Especial care needs to be taken with bananas. 

THE WORKER'S LUNCH BOX 

The rules cited for the school luncheon will apply to the 
workers, but the character of the work done must be taken 
into consideration, and the kind and amount of food gov- 
erned accordingly. Heavier, bulkier and more nutritious 
food should be used for the out-of-door or manual worker, 
such as baked bean sandwiches, meats of all kinds, cheese, 
raw and in the form of rarebits, and fondue for sandwich 
filling; eggs, hard cooked, fried or salad; small cans of 
sardines, doughnuts ; cookies, especially oatmeal ; ginger- 
bread, cinnamon rolls, etc. In such case use, if possible, the 
dinner pails which are divided into sections and places pre- 
pared for keeping coffee and tea hot. 

For one of sedentary occupation a light and digestible 
but very nutritious lunch should be provided. Among these 
may be mentioned meat sandwiches in which the meat is 
ground, mixed with light relishes and salad dressing; egg 
sandwiches or salad or hard cooked eggs, cream cheese 
mixed with chopped olives and pimentoes, chopped fruit 
and nut sandwiches, light cookies and sweets, with nuts 
and fruit. 



FEBRUARY MENUS 

Monday Lesson 109 

BREAKFAST 

FARINA WITH CHOPPED DATES 

FLANNEL CAKES SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Flannel Cakes 

Sift together 2]/^ c flour, ^/^ t salt and 4 t baking-powder. 
Add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten and mixed with 2 c milk, 
and lastly the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Cook at 
once on a hot griddle. 
Farina 

See Lesson 4, page 17, Cream of Wheat — ^ c Farina, 
2 c boiling water, ^ t salt. 

Preparing the meal 

Reheat the cereal, cooked the evening before, scald about 
12 dates, chop and add to the cereal. Make the coffee, also 
the syrup if it is not already on hand ; then make the Flannel 
Cakes. Serve cereal, then bake the Cakes and serve at once. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Monday Lesson 110 

CREAMED SARDINES 

SCALLOPED MACARONI AND TOMATOES 

GRAHAM NUT GEMS TEA 

Creamed Sardines 

Pour off the oil from a can of sardines, remove the skin 
and bones from the flesh, keeping them as nearly whole as 
possible. Make 2 c Medium White Sauce (p 38), adding 
2 T lemon juice and a dash of paprika. Heat the fish in the 
sauce and when thoroughly hot serve. 

Scalloped Macaroni and Tomatoes 

Break y?. package macaroni into pieces ^j inch in leiigth 
and cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and 
blanch with cold water, then cover with i c Medium White 
Sauce well seasoned with salt, pepper, and 4 T grated 
cheese. Cover the bottom of a buttered baking dish with a 

190 



FEBEVAEY MENUS 191 

layer of the macaroni ; over this put a layer of tomatoes, 
then macaroni, and proceed in this way until the in- 
gredients are used, having macaroni covered with buttered 
crumbs on the top. One cup of Tomatoes should be used. 
Bake until heated throughout and the top browned. 

Graham Nut Gems 

Mix and sift i c graham flour, i c white flour, yi c sugar, 
I t salt and 4 t baking-powder. Add gradually i c milk, i 
egg well beaten, and i T melted butter. Beat well and add 
^, c nut meats. Turn into greased muffin rings and bake 
25 m in a hot oven. Add 2 t molasses if desired. 

Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before lunch cook the macaroni, and while 
cooking make the 3 c White Sauce required for Macaroni 
and Creamed Sardines. Make the Graham Gems and 
while baking prepare the Macaroni and Tomatoes and place 
in the oven. Open a can of sardines, remove the skin and 
bones from the fish, and place in the White Sauce, to which 
the lemon juice and paprika have been added. Make the 
tea and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 111 

BEEFSTEAK PIE 

HOMINY SOUFFLE CREAMED STRING BEANS 

ORANGE AND CELERY SALAD 

TAPIOCA COCOANUT CREAM 

Beefsteak Fie 

Cut 2 pounds of meat from the round or »flank into pieces 
I inch square. Sprinkle with i T flour, i T parsley and i 
onion chopped fine, and brown thoroughly in 2 T butter. 
Remove to a deep baking dish, pour i c of stock or hot 
water into the pan in which the meat was browned, thor- 
oughly scrape up all the rich meat juices and pour over the 
meat in the baking dish. Bake }i h, then cover with a crust 
made as follows : 

Remove all membrane from ^ pound of suet, chop fine 
and add to it gradually i c flour ; add 54 t salt and enough 



192 LESSONS IN COOKING 

ice water to moisten. Knead for a moment, then roll out 
into a sheet large enough to cover the top of the baking 
dish. Make a hole in the center of the crust for the escape 
of the steam. Before covering the meat with the crust 
season with i t salt and a dash of pepper. Brush over the 
top of the crust with milk or beaten egg, and bake ^ h. 

Hominy Souffle 

Mix ^^ can or i^ c hominy with the yolks of 2 eggs, i c 
milk, y2 t salt, and i T melted butter. Cut and fold in the 
whites beaten stiff, pour into a buttered baking dish and 
bake set in a pan of hot water until firm, about 30 m. 

Creamed String Beans 

Drain and rinse ^ can string beans, cover with i c 
Medium White Sauce (p. 38), heat thoroughly and serve. 

Orange and Celery Salad 

_ Clean thoroughly i bunch of celery ; cut in i-inch length 
pieces and fringe ; drop into cold water to make crisp. Add 
2 oranges separated into sections and cut into small pieces, 
dress with French Dressing (p. 178) and serve. 

Tapioca Cocoanut Cream 

Wash 1/3 c pearl tapioca well, cover with hot water and 
soak several hours. Drain, cover with i pint milk, and 
cook in a double-boiler until transparent. Beat the yolks 
of 2 eggs, add >^ c sugar, 5^, t salt, beat well, and stir 
gradually into the tapioca; add i t vanilla, >^, c shredded 
cocoanut, and fold in the whites of the eggs beaten dry. 
Serve either hot or cold. 

Preparing the Meal 

Immediately after lunch put the tapioca to soak. About 
2 h before dinner time prepare the meat for the beefsteak 
pie and start to cooking. Make the Tapioca Cream and 
mould for serving. Now make the crust for the pie and 
put over the meat in the oven. Make and bake the Hominy 
souffle. Prepare the Orange and Celery Salad and put on 
salad plates in a cool place until needed. Open a ran of 
string beans and cream them. 

Serve dinner, leaving Beefsteak Pie in the baking dish. 



^ 



FEBBUABY MENUS 193 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 112 

STEWED APRICOTS 

CHEESE OMELET BUTTERED TOAST 

COFFEE 

Cheese Omelet 

Make an Omelet according to directions given in L 69, 
p 125 — 4 eggs, 4 t butter, j/4 t salt, pepper, % c hot water. 
Just before removing from the pan sprinkle with 4 T grated 
cheese, fold over and serve. Or the cheese may be added to 
the yolks of the eggs and cooked with the Omelet. 

Stewed Apricots 

Wash y2 pound dried apricots well and cover with water. 
Soak over night, then cook slowly until tender, adding 
sugar at the last as necessary. See L 49, p. 83. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the Cheese Omelet ; while cooking, make the coffee 
and toast. Serve the fruit cooked previously, then the 
Omelet, toast and coffee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 113 

CODFISH — CREOLE STYLE 

RYE BREAD APPLE SAUCE 

TEA 

Codfish — Creole Style 

Wash and soak 3^ pound of boneless flaked codfish over 
night. Blanch yl c rice and boil 20 m. While cooking melt 
2 T butter; in it put i onion sliced finely and cook slowly 
until the onion is soft, but not brown. This will take about 
20 m. Drain the codfish, add it to the rice, also ^ c strained 
tomatoes to the onion, cover the pan and cook gently for 
20 m. Serve at once. 

Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before lunch start the rice and onion to cook- 
ing for the Codfish — Creole Style. In about 20 m finish the 
preparation of the Codfish and while cooking cut the rye 



194 LESSONS IN COOKING 

bread and butter and with a dish of apple sauce place on 
the table. Make the tea and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Tuesday Lesson 114 

PLAIN POT ROAST 

MASHED POTATOES BAKED SQUASH 

CABBAGE AND APPLE SALAD 

CHERRY SOUFFLE 

Plain Pot Roast 

An iron pot or very heavy kettle should be used for a pot 
roast. Select for a pot roast the middle or face of the rump, 
the round or shoulder. Wipe with a damp cloth. Heat the 
kettle thoroughly and then add the meat. Sear well on all 
sides, then raise from the bottom on a trivet or rack ; add 
I c water, cover tightly and cook slowly below the boiling 
point for 3 or 4 h. When the meat is tender, if there is still 
any liquor remaining remove the cover, allow it to evaporate 
and brown the meat. 

Baked Squash 

Wash and wipe a squash; saw into halves, then into quar- 
ters and remove the seeds. Place the pieces of squash skin 
side down in a baking pan, and bake in a moderate oven 
until tender. This will require about i h. 

Cabbage and Apple Salad 

Soak 2 c of shredded cabbage. Remove the seeds from 
a sweet pepper and chop fine. Chop i T onion fine. Pare 
and slice i apple, preferably a tart one. Drain the cabbage, 
place a layer in the bottom of the salad bowl ; over this ar- 
range a layer of apple sprinkled with the chopped onion and 
pepper, then some French Dressing, the cabbage and so 
on until the ingredients are used. Serve very cold. 

Cherry Souffle 

Melt 2 T butter, add ^ c flour and ^ t salt and cook 
until frothy. Add }i c milk and ^ c cream gradually, let 
cook a few minutes, then add 3^ c bread crumbs, the grated 
rind of ^ lemon, the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with ^4 c 
sugar, and lastly ^ c stoned cherries and the stiffly beaten 



FEBEUAEY MENUS 195 

whites of the eggs. Turn into a greased mould and steam 
1/4 h. Or if desired this pudding may be set in a pan of 
hot water and baked in the baking dish. Serve. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before dinner time prepare the meat for the 
pot roast, and simmer gently. If a fireless cooker is to be 
used allow at least 6 h time for a 4-pound roast. About 
i}^ h. before dinner make the cherry souffle and steam over 
the pot roast or else bake in the oven with the squash. Pre- 
pare the squash and place in the oven about i h before din- 
ner. Now make the salad and set in a cool place until ready 
to serve. Pare and quarter the potatoes and cook in boiling 
salted water until tender, then drain and mash. Allow the 
liquid on the meat to boil down and let the roast brown. If 
there is too much liquid to evaporate in a short time pour off 
and save for soups, gravies, etc. Remove the squash from 
the oven to a hot plate, place the meat on a hot platter, 
make gravy if desired, put the potatoes in a hot vegetable 
dish and serve the dinner. If the pudding is not done when 
ready to brown the meat, place in the oven to finish cooking, 
or else place over a kettle of hot water to finish. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 115 

HOMINY GRITS — CREAM AND SUGAR 

POTATO PUFFS HOT BISCUITS 

COFFEE 

Hominy Grits 

To I quart of boiling salted water, add slowly i c (scant) 
hominy grits. Boil up well, stirring all the time, then cook 
slowly in the double boiler for 3 or 4 h, adding more water 
from time to time if necessary, or cook in a fireless cooker 
over night. 

Potato Puffs 

Beat 2 eggs light, add i c cold mashed potatoes, J^ c flou- 
sifted with 3^ t salt and i t baking-powder. Cut from the 
tip of a spoon into deep hot fat in pieces the size of an tgg. 
Fry until a golden brown in color. 



196 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Biscuits 

See pp. 24, or 78 — 2 c flour, 4 t baking-powder, j4 t 
salt, I T shortening, about % c milk. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal and make the biscuits. While baking 
make the coffee and the potato puffs, having the fat for 
frying the latter, heating at the same time. Fry the puffs 
and drain on brown paper, keeping them hot while the cereal 
is served. Serve the Potato Puffs, biscuits and coffee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 116 

MEAT SOUFFLE 

BREAD AND BUTTER JELLY 

OATMEAL COOKIES TEA 

Meat Souffle 

Add I c finely chopped cooked meat to ^ c hot Medium 
White Sauce (p 38) ; season and add the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs ; remove from the fire, cool, cut and fold in the whites 
of 2 eggs beaten stiff. Turn into a buttered baking dish, set 
in a pan of water and bake from 40 m to i h. 
Oatmeal Cookies 

Beat I egg until light, add j4 c sugar, ^ c milk and }i 
c thin cream ; mix well and add 5^ c oatmeal and 2 c flour 
mixed and sifted with 2 t baking-powder and i t salt. Toss 
onto a floured board, roll, cut into shape, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

About I h before lunch time prepare the meat souffle. 
If the cookies are not on hand, make and bake while the 
meat is baking. Make the tea and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 117 

SCOTCH STEW 

BOILED RICE BAKED ONIONS — CREAM SAUCE 

CUBAN PUDDING 

Scotch Stew 

Cut 2 necks mutton into pieces convenient for serving. 



FEBBUABY MENUS 197 

Put 2 T suet into a stewpan and shake over the fire until 
nearly melted; remove the "cracklings," put in the pieces 
of mutton and shake until thoroughly seared on all sides. 
Draw them to one side of the pan. Add 2 T flour to the fat, 
mix well and add i quart of strained tomatoes. Stir until 
boiling, add i onion, sliced, a bit of bay leaf, >4 t chopped 
parsley, i T chopped celery and i t salt. Cover the pan 
tightly and gently simmer i^^ h. 

Baked Onions 

Peel 6 medium sized onions, cook J^, h in boiling salted 
water; drain, put into a small baking dish, add i T butter, 
54 t salt, a dash of pepper and >^ c water. Bake ^ h in a 
moderate oven, basting frequently. Place on a small platter 
or chop plate and pour i c Medium White Sauce around 
them. Serve at once. 

Boiled Rice 

Wash I c of rice and pour slowly into 2 quarts or more of 
salted water, boiling rapidly. Stir for 5 m to prevent stick- 
ing and continue boiling rapidly for 20 or 30 m, until the 
grains are soft. Drain and pour hot water through the rice 
to prevent the grains sticking together and allow 
superfluous moisture to evaporate. Each grain should now 
be separate but soft. There is some loss of material in this 
method of cooking, but this is necessary to preserve the 
texture of the rice. One c of dry rice makes about 4c when 
cooked. Reserve i c for future use. 

Cuban Pudding 

Press I c dry sponge cake through a coarse sieve, add 5^, 
c grated cocoanut ; beat 2 eggs slightly, add 2 T sugar, and 
then gradually i c hot milk. Pour this mixture over the 
cake and cocoanut. Put into a buttered mould, cover and 
steam i^ h. Serve either plain or with any fruit syrup 
that may be on hand. 

Preparing the Meal 

About i}i h. before dinner prepare the Cuban Pudding, 
then the Scotch Stew. Steam the pudding over the stew. 



198 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Blanch and cook the rice, and boil the onions. Drain and 
bake ; then make the White Sauce. 

When the rice is done, form in a ring mould on a large 
platter, and fill the center with the stew. Serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 118 

SAUTED BANANAS 

RICE WAFFLES SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Sauted Bananas 

Peel and cut in half, lengthwise, 4 good sized bananas. 
Saute in either butter or oil until a golden brown in color. 
Dust with powdered sugar and serve. 

Rice Waffles 

Sift together i c flour, 2 t baking-powder and i t salt; 
add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs to i c rich milk, stir well and 
add to the flour. Add i c cold boiled rice, beat well and add 
j4 c melted butter. Lastly cut and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Bake on a hot greased waffle iron. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the Sauted Bananas and while browning make 
the Rice Waffles and coffee. Also make the syrup if not on 
hand. Serve the fruit, then bake the waffles and serve at 
once. 

Immediately after breakfast make the Custard Pie for 
dinner; also cook the squash, potatoes and figs for lunch. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
T^Mrsday Lesson 119 

SQUASH SOUP 

POTATO FRITTERS GERMAN FASHION 

RAISIN BREAD AND BUTTER 
STEWED FIGS TEA 

Squash Soup 

Press 2 c boiled or baked squash through a sieve. (Use 
baked squash left from Tuesday dinner, Lesson 114.) Add 
2 c scalded milk, i T each chopped celery and parsley, ^ t 



FEBRUABY MENUS 199 

chopped onion and Yz t salt. Bind with i T flour mixed 
with I T butter. Heat thoroughly and serve. 

Potato Fritters — German Fashion 

Boil and put through the vegetable press 3 good sized 
potatoes. Add ^ T butter, ^ t salt, i>2 T sugar and the 
well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Mix well, form into small 
round flat cakes, roll in a mixture made of ^ T flour and 
3 T bread crumbs, and saute in butter until well heated 
throughout and golden brown in color. 

Stew^ed Figs 

Wash well unpressed dried figs. Soak over night in warm 
water. In the morning stew until tender in the liquid in 
which they were soaked. Add sugar if necessary, and 
allow the liquid to evaporate until a thick syrup is formed. 

Preparing the Meal 

About y2 h before lunch rice the potatoes, cooked in the 
morning, then put the cooked squash through the ricer. The 
potato that is thus mixed with the squash will only add 
nutriment and flavor to the soup. 

Make the Squash Soup and while heating prepare and 
saute the Potato Fritters. Make the tea and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 120 

BEEF OLIVES 

MASHED POTATOES KNOFLI 

MAPLE CUSTARD PIE 

Beef Olives 

Cut I thin steak from the round into strips 4 inches long 
and 2 inches wide. Put Yj c fine bread crumbs into a bowl, 
add jA t salt, dash of pepper and about 2 T melted butter, 
or enough to moisten crumbs. Spread each strip of meat 
with the crumbs, roll up compactly, and tie into shape. Put 
I T butter in a saucepan, add i T flour, mix well and brown 
the flour. Add slowly 2 c stock or hot water. When boil- 
ing add I T each chopped parsley and onion, a bit of bay 
leaf, ^ t salt, and the "beef olives." Simmer i>4 h or 
until meat is tender. Strain out of the brown gravy, remove 



200 LESSONS IN COOKING 

the strings from the "olives" and serve in a mound of 
mashed potatoes with brown gravy poured around or served 
separately. 

Knofli 

Beat 2 eggs slightly and add ji c milk. Add gradually i 
c flour mixed and sifted with i t salt. Place a colander 
over boiling water, turn in 1/3 of the mixture, and force 
through the colander into the water, using a potato masher. 
As soon as the "buttons" come to the top of the water, re- 
move with a skimmer to a hot vegetable dish, sprinkle with 
salt and grated cheese ; repeat until all the mixture is used. 
Stand in the oven 5 m, then serve. 

Maple Custard Pie 

Grate ^ pound maple sugar; beat it with the yolks of 3 
eggs until light. Mix i T flour to a smooth paste with cold 
milk, adding the latter gradually until i c has been used, then 
strain into the sugar and egg mixture. Add i T lemon 
juice and turn at once into a pie plate lined with partially 
baked paste. Bake in a moderate oven until the custard is 
set. Under no consideration let the custard boil. 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs until light and stiff, add 3 T 
powdered sugar and beat until dry and fine. Heap over the 
top of the pie, dust thickly with powdered sugar, and brown 
in a very slow oven. Meringues will not fall if dusted with 
sugar and browned slowly. 

For Pastry see p. i3o. Make enough for Tarts to be 
used the following day, keeping the extra paste in a cold 
place until ready to use. 

Mashed Potatoes 

See p. 15 — 4 potatoes, i>^ T butter, }i c hot milk, y^ t 
salt. 

Preparing the Meal 

About i^ h before dinner prepare the beef olives and 
cook. One hour later wash and pare the potatoes and cook 
in boiling salted water. Also make and cook the Knofli. 
Place in the oven, then drain and mash the potatoes, arrange 
in a mound on a hot platter, put the beef olives around it 



FEBBUAE7 MENUS 201 

and pour the brown gravy over all, or else serve in a sep- 
arate dish as desired. Have the pie made in the morning, 
cut and ready for serving. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 121 

CRACKED WHEAT-CREAM AND SUGAR 
EGGS BROUILLI ON TOAST COFFEE 

Cracked Wheat 

To I quart of boiling water, add i t salt and i c cracked 
wheat. Stir until boiling, then cook in the double boiler 
8 h or longer. Add more water from time to time if 
necessary. Cook at least I2 h in the tireless cooker. 

Eggs Brouilli 

Beat 4 eggs until well mixed ; add 4 T stock, 4 T cream, 
and mix thoroughly. Turn into a saucepan placed over hot 
water, and stir until thick and jelly like ; add ^i t salt, dash 
of pepper and serve on squares of toast. 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal, make the coffee and toast, then the 
Eggs Brouilli. Serve the breakfast. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 122 

POTATOES STUFFED WITH MEAT 

BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER TEA 

TARTS 

Potatoes Stuffed with Meat 

Pare 6 good sized potatoes, cut them in halves and scoop 
out the centers, leaving a wall 3^ -inch thick. Cover the 
potato taken from the centers with cold water and reserve 
for use at dinner. 

Cook the potato shells in boiling salted water for 10 m. 
Drain and stand in a baking pan. 

Grind the beef olives left from the preceding meal, or 
any other cold meat that is on hand, with ^ small onion 



202 LESSONS IN COOKING 

and I T parsley, and fill the potatoes with the meat mixture. 
Dust the tops with bread crumbs, put Yz t butter in the 
center of each and bake in a moderately quick oven for ^ 
h or until the potatoes are tender. Serve either plain or 
with White Sauce or Tomato Sauce. 

Tarts 

Roll plain or puff paste ^-inch thick. Cut into pieces to 
fit into individual fluted tins or muffin pans, pricking the 
bottom and sides to prevent the formation of bubbles. Bake 
15 m in a hot oven. Fill with jj|m or jelly. 

Preparing the Meal 

About ^4 h before lunch prepare the potatoes. While 
cooking grind and season the meat; then drain the potatoes 
and prepare for the oven. While baking make and bake 
the tarts, the paste being made the preceding day. If 
desired, make a sauce for the potatoes, then the tea. Serve. 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 123 

SALMON LOAF WITH WHITE SAUCE 

RICED POTATOES LIMA BEANS 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Salmon Loaf 

Remove the skin and bones from a can of salmon and 
chop the fish fine. Beat 3 eggs well and add to them i c 
bread or cracker crumbs, ^ t salt, and a dash of pepper. 
Combine with the salmon, adding 2 T melted butter. Mix 
all ingredients well, put in a greased mould, steam ^ h. 

Serve with Medium White Sauce (p. 38), using the 
liquor from the salmon in place of part of the milk. 

Lima Beans 

Wash dried lima beans well, cover with warm water and 
soak 12 h. Drain, cover with boiling salted water, and cook 
until tender. This will require about 2 h. Let the water 
evaporate until just enough to moisten the beans well is left. 
Season with salt, pepper, and butter. 



FEBBUAEY MENUS 203 

Riced Potatoes 

Put hot boiled potatoes through the ricer, shake lightly, 
and serve at once- 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 

Pick over and wash ^ c pearl tapioca; add 3 c boiling 
water, ^ t salt, and 34 c sugar, and cook in the double 
boiler until transparent. 

Core and pare 5 medium sized apples, Jonathan preferred. 
Put them in a round baking dish, fill the cores with sugar, 
and pour over them the tapioca to which 2 T lemon juice 
has been added. Bake until the apples are very tender. 
Serve either plain or with sugar and cream. 

This dessert is very nice served cold with whipped cream. 

Preparing the Meal 

About i^ h before dinner cook the tapioca; while cook- 
ing, wash, pare and cook the potatoes, then make the Sal- 
mon Loaf and steam over the potatoes. The Lima beans 
which were cooked in the morning may now be reheated 
with the seasoning. Prepare the apples, cover with the 
tapioca, and place in the oven. Make the White Sauce 
(p. 38) for the Salmon Loaf, rice the potatoes and serve the 
dinner. 

The pudding should be made in the morning if it is 
desired to serve it cold. 



BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 124 

ORANGES 

BROWNED FISH HASH 

POP-OVERS COFFEE 

Browned Fish Hash 

Mix equal parts of cold cooked fish and cold boiled pota- 
toes, chopped fine. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Melt 2 T butter, (bacon fat, drippings, as desired and con- 
venient) in a frying pan, put in 2 c fish and potatoes, stir 
until well heated, then cook without stirring until well 
browned underneath; fold and turn like an omelet. 



204 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Pop-overs 

Mix and sift J^ t salt and i c flour; add % c milk, 
gradually, in order to obtain a smooth batter. Add 2 eggs 
beaten until light, and ^ t melted butter; with a Dover 
beater beat the entire mixture for 2 m ; turn into hissing hot 
buttered gem pans and bake 30 to 35 m in a hot oven. 

Note — Pop-overs may be baked in buttered earthen cups, 
but small iron or aluminum gem pans are best. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make the Pop-overs and while baking prepare the Fish 
Hash from the remnants of the Salmon Loaf and potatoes 
left from the preceding evening. While the Hash is brown- 
ing make the coffee and prepare the oranges. Serve the 
fruit, then the Hash, Pop-overs and coffee. 

SATURDAY MORNING BAKING 

Yeast Bread — Short Process 

Scald I c milk, add i c boiling water, pour into a large 
mixing bowl or bread riser, add 2 T lard, 2 t salt and i T 
sugar. When lukewarm, add i cake of compressed yeast 
which has been softened in ^ c lukewarm water, mix well 
and sift in 6 c bread flour. Beat well with a spoon and 
add sufficient flour to make a dough which can be handled. 
Turn on to a floured board and knead thoroughly. 

Let rise in the mixing bowl till double its bulk, knead, 
form into loaves, place in greased baking pans, let rise till 
double its bulk, and bake in a moderate oven about i h 
or until the loaves shrink away from the pan. 

For further directions see article on Bread Making, page 
211. 
Pound Cake 

Cream ^ lb. of butter, add gradually J^ lb., that is, i c 
of sugar and beat well ; add the yolks of 5 eggs beaten until 
thick and lemon colored, whites of 5 eggs beaten until stiff 
and dry, >4; lb. or 2 c of pastry flour, % t mace and 3^ T 
vanilla. Beat vigorously 5 m. Bake in a deep pan i h in a 
slow oven ; or 30 to 35 m if baked as small fancy cakes. 
Fig Turnovers 

Mix and sift 3 c flour, ^ t salt and 4 t baking-powder. 



FEBRUABY MENUS 205 

Rub i^ T butter into the flour; then beat i egg, add to it 
I c milk, mix and add gradually to the flour. The dough 
should be soft but not wet. Turn out quickly onto a floured 
board, roll into a sheet 3^ inch thick and cut into rounds 
with a biscuit cutter. Dip a knife handle into flour, press 
down in the center of each biscuit, making a sort of hinge ; 
have ready 8 or lo figs, chopped fine. Put i T of the fig 
mixture on half of the roll, brush over lightly with white of 
egg, fold over the other half, pressing the edges well 
together. Bake in a quick oven 20 m. Serve warm with 
cream or milk and sugar. 

Jellied Veal 

Cover a knuckle of veal broken into small pieces, with 
boiling water and let simmer until tender, together with a 
few slices of carrot, half an onion and a stalk of celery. 
Drain, reserving the broth ; remove all meat from the bones, 
return the particles of gristle, skin and bones to the broth, 
put over the fire and simmer until reduced to i c. Strain, 
set aside and cool. When the meat is nearly cold, cut in 
tiny cubes or else chop fine, remove the fat from the broth, 
reheat and stir the veal into it adding salt, pepper and any 
other seasoning desired. Decorate a mould with slices of 
hard cooked eggs, pour the veal mixture into this, cover 
with buttered paper, press down with a weight and let stand 
until cold and set. Serve sliced thin. 

Method of VJork 

Start the bread the first thing after breakfast. Then put 
the veal on to cook and make the Pound Cake ; while baking, 
make the Fig Turnovers for Luncheon. Knead the bread 
and set it to rise. Then, if necessary, make a supply of 
Salad Dressing, following directions given on page 29. 
Knead the bread a second time, if desired, shaping loaves, 
let rise and bake. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 125 

RICE CAKES MUTTON CHOPS 

FIG TURNOVERS TEA 



206 LESSONS IN COOKING 

For Fig Turnovers see Saturday Morning Baking. 
For Rice Cakes see Lesson 93, page 163. 
Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before lunch boil the rice, if no cooked rice 
is on hand, and make the rice cakes. While they are cook- 
ing, wipe the Mutton Chops with a damp cloth and saute 
until brown on both sides. Make the Tea and serve the 
Rice Cakes and Chops, then the Fig Turnovers. 

After lunch make the Chocolate Mousse for dinner. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 126 

STEWED KIDNEYS 

POTATOES AU GRATIN TOMATOES WITH SAVORY CUSTARD 

CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 

Stewed Kidneys 

Split a pair of fresh kidneys in halves, removing the white 
fat and sinew from the center. Cover with cold water and 
let heat over a moderate fire, taking care, however, that 
the water does not boil. When hot, drain from the water 
and cut into small pieces. Cover again with cold water and 
heat, not to the boiling point however, or the kidneys will 
harden. 

Melt 2 T butter in a frying pan, add 2 T flour, and when 
brown stir in i c stock or water. Cook several minutes, 
then add salt, pepper to taste, i T chopped celery, i T cat- 
sup, and the pieces of kidney. Stir until well heated 
throughout, sprinkle i T chopped parsley over the top and 
serve at once. 

Potatoes au Gratin 

Mash 2 c potatoes, making quite soft with milk; season 
with salt, pepper and butter to taste. Arrange in layers 
in a buttered baking dish, sprinkling grated cheese over 
each layer, and covering the top with buttered crumbs. 
Place in a hot oven until well heated throughout and nicely 
browned on the top. 

Tomatoes with Savory Custard 

Mix together i pt. canned tomatoes, }i c breadcrumbs, 



FEBBUABY MENUS 207 

I T finely chopped onion, i t sugar, and salt and pepper to 
taste ; pour into a buttered baking dish. Beat 4 eggs, add- 
ing ^ t salt, I t sugar, and 13^ c milk. Pour over the 
Tomato mixture and bake set in a pan of water, in a slow 
oven until set, about j4 ^• 

Chocolate Mousse 

Melt I oz. chocolate, add J4 c powdered sugar, and gradu- 
ally yz c cream. Stir over the fire until the boiling point is 
reached, then add 3^ T granulated gelatine dissolved in 
13^2 T boiling water, ^ c sugar, and i t vanilla. Strain 
the mixture into a bowl, set in a pan of ice water, stirring 
constantly until it thickens, then fold in i c of stiffly whipped 
cream. Mould, pack in salt and ice, and let stand 4 h or 
more. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I h before dinner put the kidneys on to cook, 
then pare and boil the potatoes. Make the Tomato and 
Savory Custard and place in the oven. Then drain and 
mash the potatoes, prepare with the cheese and place in 
the oven. Finish the preparation of the kidneys, then serve 
the dinner. 

The dessert should be made immediately after luncheon. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 127 

GRAPEFRUIT 

PETTI JOHN — CREAM AND SUGAR 

FRUIT GEMS COFFEE 

Fruit Gems 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, add 2 c milk and stir in ^ c 
dates and Yz c raisins, scalded and chopped. Mix and sift 
I c whole wheat flour, 3^ c cornmeal, 2 t baking powder 
and V2 t salt, and add to the milk mixture. Beat vigorously 
for several minutes, then cut and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Pour into hot greased gem pans and bake 
20 m in a hot oven. 

Grapefruit 
Prepare as in Lesson 40, page 58. 



208 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Pettijohn 

Use I c Pettijohn, 2 c boiling water, >4 t salt, cook 2 h 
(see p. ID.) 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal, then make the Fruit Gems and, while 
baking, make the coffee. Now prepare the Grapefruit, if 
this has not been done the preceding evening, and serve it, 
then the cereal and lastly the Fruit Gems and coffee. 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 128 

ROAST DUCK GIBLET SAUCE 

MASHED POTATOES CREAMED CELERY 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 
CABINET PUDDING 

Roast Duck 

Follow directions for dressing a fowl given in Part III, 
page loi. Be sure to scrub well both inside and out, using 
plenty of soda. Then rmse thoroughly with boiling water. 
Dry, rub the outside with flour and breadcrumbs mixed in 
equal proportions. Season with salt and pepper, then stuff 
with chestnut stuffing. Bake 2}4 to 3 h, basting from time 
to time. 

Chestnut Stuffing 

Shell and blanch 3 c chestnuts. This is accomplished by 
cutting a gash }^ inch long in the flat side of the chestnut, 
putting in an omelet pan with 3^ t butter for each c of nuts, 
and heating thoroughly for several minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. Then stand in the oven for 5 m. In this way the 
shell can be easily removed and the inner skin will come off 
too, thus blanching them at the same time. 

Cook the chestnuts in boiling salted water until soft, then 
drain and mash. Add % c butter, i t salt, % t pepper, and 
% c cream. Melt ^4 c butter, add i c cracker crumbs, mix 
wei], then add to the chestnut mixture and mix thoroughly, 
and stuff the duck. 



FEBBUABY MENUS 209 

Giblet Sauce 

Remove the thin membrane, clotted blood, veins and arter- 
ies, from the heart. Separate the gall bladder from the 
liver, cutting off any of the liver that may have a greenish 
tinge. Cut the fat and membranes from the gizzard. Make 
a gash through the thickest part of the gizzard, and cut as 
far as the inner lining, being careful not to pierce it. 
Remove the inner sack and discard. Wash the giblets well, 
cover with cold water, heat quickly and cook until tender, 
about ^ h. 

Pour off the liquid in the pan in which the duck has been 
roasted. From it skim off 4 T fat, return to the pan 
and brown with 4 T flour; add 2 c stock in which the 
giblets (heart, liver, and gizzard) have been cooked, cook 
5 m and season with salt and pepper. Add the giblets 
chopped fine, cook a minute or two longer, then serve. 

Creamed Celery 

Cut enough cleaned celery stalks into pieces about i inch 
long to fill 2 c, cover with boiling water and cook until 
tender, about ^ h. Drain, cover with i c Medium White 
Sauce (2 T flour) and serve. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Look over the cranberries, rejecting all soft or spotted 
ones. By measure use half as much sugar as cranberries 
and half as much water as sugar. Cover and cook 10 m, 
and set aside to cool. Long cooking makes a bitter sauce. 

Another method is to cook the cranberries in the water 
for about 5 m or until they burst, then add the sugar and 
boil gently for about 10 m, with the cover on. The sauce 
should set into a jelly when cold and the skins should not 
be tough. 

Cabinet Pudding 

Sprinkle the bottom of a 2 pt. square mould with chopped 
fruit (raisins, currants, and citron), then add slices of stale 
sponge cake and if desired a sprinkling of ground cinna- 
mon and clove. Alternate these layers using ^ c of fruit. 

Beat 2 eggs lightly, add ^ t salt, i T melted butter, and 
I pt. of milk; pour over the ingredients in the mould, 



210 LESSONS IN COOKING 

and let stand i h, then steam i>4 h. Serve either plain, or 
with custard sauce or with currant jelly. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before dinner prepare the duck and place in 
the oven. Then make the Cabinet Pudding and set aside 
for an h before steaming. Cook the Giblets and then 
make the Cranberry Sauce. Also cook the Celery for 
Creamed Celery. 

About i^ h before dinner steam the pudding, then a little 
later wash and pare the potatoes and cook them in the 
water over which the pudding is steaming. Make i c 
Medium White Sauce (2 T flour, 2 T butter), and add the 
cooked Celery to it. Mash the potatoes, keeping them warm 
until needed, remove the duck to a hot platter, and make 
the Giblet Sauce in the pan in which the duck was cooked. 
Serve the dinner. 

The Pudding can continue steaming while the dinner is 
being eaten. Place a teaspoonful of currant jelly on top 
of each serving of Pudding. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 129 

JELLIED VEAL CELERY AND WALNUT SALAD 

POUND CAKE GOOSEBERRY JAM 

COCOA 

Celery and Walnut Salad 

Cut finely enough celery to fill i c. Add ^ c walnut 
meats broken into small pieces, and cover with Boiled Salad 
Dressing (L. 15, p. 29). Arrange on beds of lettuce or 
cress, and serve at once. 

For Jellied Veal, see Saturday Baking, p. 205. 

For Pound Cake, see Saturday Baking, p. 204. 

For Cocoa, see Lesson 2, p. 13. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 15 m before supper time make the cocoa. While 
cooking, make the salad, slice the Jellied Veal, cut the Cake, 
and fill a small dish with Gooseberry Jam. Serve the 
supper. 



FEBBUABY MENUS 211 

BREAD MAKING 

Yeast breads take their names from the flour or the Hquid 
used, as white bread, whole wheat bread, or graham, and 
according to the Hquid as, milk bread, water bread, milk and 
water bread, or potato bread. A combination of any two 
or all of the liquids may be used. Potato water, made by 
mashing three or four potatoes to about i quart of the 
water in which they are cooked, is preferred by many, as 
it seems to produce a moister bread and quicker action from 
the yeast. 

The proportion of shortening and sugar used in the bread 
depends upon the tastes of the breadmaker or family. Too 
much shortening will slightly retard the action of the yeast, 
as will also too much salt or sugar. The following propor- 
tions give excellent results — 2 or 3 loaves: 

Milk and Water Bread 

i c milk i t sugar 

i c water or potato water ^ to i yeast cake soft- 

2 t shortening ened in ^ c tepid water 

2 t SALT FLOUR 

There are two processes for making bread, the long and 
the short, either of which can be used according to time 
and convenience. In both, the method of procedure is the 
same up to a certain point. 

The liquid used should be brought to the boiling point. 
To this add the sugar, salt and shortening. When cooled to 
100° (lukewarm), add the yeast which has been soaking in 
tepid water. Then add enough flour to make a batter that 
will drop from the spoon (about 6 c to the above propor- 
tions), and beat very well. From this point either the long 
or short process can be employed according to the con- 
venience and desire of the breadmaker. 



21iJ LESSONS IN COOKING 

Long Process 

Set the above batter or "sponge" in a warm place, the 
best temperature being from 70° to 90° F, and let rise to 
double its bulk, which will take from i to 2 h at 80° or 
over night at 65°. Then sift in sufficient flour to make a 
dough which can be handled ; turn out onto a floured board, 
knead well, adding flour when necessary, to prevent stick- 
ing, until the dough is smooth, elastic, and can be kneaded 
for several minutes without the addition of flour. The 
dough should not stick to the board, it may cleave, but not 
stick. Put into a well greased bowl, either turning it over 
in the bowl, or rubbing it on the top with a little fat to 
prevent the formation of a dry crust. Cover, set in a 
warm place and let rise to double its bulk. Turn out on 
a board, using no flour, or as little as possible ; knead well, 
mold into loaves which will not quite half fill the pans, and 
put into greased pans, greasing the top as before. Let rise 
to double its bulk and bake. 

Short Process 

Instead of setting this batter or sponge to rise, flour is 
added to make a stiff dough. This is turned out onto the 
board, kneaded and set to rise. When double its bulk, it 
is kneaded down, put into the pans, allowed to rise and then 
baked as in the long process. 

The texture and flavor of the bread may be improved by 
kneading down more than once before baking, but very 
excellent bread can be made with two kneadings if time 
and inclination do not permit of more. 

Yeasts 

Compressed yeast has very quick action and with it bread 
can be made and baked in from 3 to 6 h, if the dough is 
kept at 75° to 90°. The more yeast used and the higher the 
temperature the quicker is the action. Care should be taken 
however, that the yeast is fresh and in good condition. 

The dried yeast cakes and the home made yeasts give 
as good results, but take longer than the compressed yeasts. 



FEBBUAEY MENUS 213 

The action of the yeast in the bread is to produce the gas 
carbon dioxide (CO2) and alcohol. First some of the 
starch is acted upon by an enzyme in the flour and changed 
into sugar, which is subsequently changed by the yeast into 
carbon dioxide and alcohol. When a certain amount of 
these two have been produced they act on the yeast, stop 
its growth and finally kill it, after which time no more 
alcohol and carbon dioxide can be produced. Then bacteria 
such as those producing acetic acid become active and sour 
bread results. 

To prevent this, as soon as the dough has doubled its 
bulk, which is an indication that as much alcohol and car- 
bon dioxide as is safe is present, it should be kneaded down 
to permit the escape of the gas. If at this point one has 
not time to knead it, it can be slashed through several times 
with a knife, or torn apart, to effect the same result. 

As yeast is a plant, it is necessary to keep the dough at 
the proper temperature to obtain desired results. For quick 
action it should be kept warm by setting in a warm place, 
in warm water or by wrapping the bowl. If the tempera- 
ture is too low, the action is slow and the dough may not 
rise sufficiently in time for baking. If it is too high, there 
is greater tendency for the dough to sour. A thermometer 
is a great help in controlling the temperature. A common 
bath thermometer with large stem can be obtained at most 
drug stores for 25 cents. When used it should be taken 
out of the wooden case and thrust into the dough. 

When it is desired to postpone the baking, the dough may 
be set in a cool place, between 50° and 60°, to prevent 
further rising and loaves or biscuits made when wanted 
or when convenient, allowed to rise in the pan and baked. 
It is often desirable to hold a part of the dough over night 
or longer, to have hot biscuits for breakfast or other meal. 



214 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Kneading 

Kneading is for the purpose of mixing and perfectly 
blending all the ingredients so that the yeast will be 
thoroughly distribute throughout the entire mass, and the 
action be the same in all parts of the dough, thus making 
the texture fine and even throughout. The first kneading 
mixes and blends the materials, the last perfects the grain. 
The action of kneading should be such as to get the 
greatest results from the least expenditure of energy by the 
worker; in other words, to make each motion count to its 
fullest extent. The dough should be folded toward one, 
rolled away, moving the entire mass under the hands at the 
same moment. The action consists of three montions: ist, 
folding (the dough is folded toward one), 2nd, rolling 
(rolled away from one under pressure of the hands), 3rd, 
turning (the dough is turned quickly so that it lays length- 
wise from the kneader). This seems a complicated action, 
but if practiced, becomes very simple. Punching and pound- 
ing dough is useless waste of energy, affecting only a very 
small portion of the dough with each strenuous motion. 
It is not so much the time given to the kneading as the 
way it is done which counts, for more can be accomplished 
by kneading in the proper way for 5 m than in 4ouble or 
treble that time by misdirected motions. 

Bread Mixers 

Bread mixers may be used to advantage and will save 
much time and energy if one finds turning a crank easier 
than kneading. Housekeepers inexperienced in bread mak- 
ing usually have better success with a bread mixer than in 
kneading by hand. There is not so much danger of adding 
too much •.'lour, thus making a very stiff dough which does 
not rise properly and gives a tough, hard loaf. 




THE CORRECT POSITION AND METHOD FOR KNEADING BREAD. 



FEBBUAEY MENUS 215 

Baking 

Baking bread kills the yeast plant, prevents further fer- 
mentation, expands the gas, thus making the bread light, 
sets the gluten cell walls, and develops the flavor. Thor- 
ough baking is absolutely necessary to produce good, whole- 
some, digestible bread. A pound loaf should bake i h in a 
moderate oven, a pan of biscuit, according to their size, 
from 20 to 30 m. 

If the oven is too hot when the bread is put in there will 
be heavy streaks through it, and the crust will burst at the 
point of least resistance, usually along the top or side. 

Loaves should be small, not over a pound in weight and 
should be baked in separate pans, so that the heat will pene- 
trate quickly and thoroughly to the center of the loaf. The 
best sized pan is 4x8x3 inches. 

Care of Bread After Baking 

After baking turn the bread out and lay on a wire cake 
cooler or a rack in such a way that the air will circulate 
freely all around it. When cold put into a tin bread box 
or a stone jar, and cover tightly. 

Under no circumstances use a cloth around bread. It 
absorbs the moisture, will very soon have an odor, and will 
give a taste to the bread. If one desires to wrap the bread 
use brown paper, such as manilla. The bread box or jar 
should be scalded and aired at least once a week. 



216 LESSONS IN COOKING 



HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS 
Soiled Dish Retainer 

In a small family where economy of time is important, 
it is often advisable to wash the dishes but once a day. 
Some way, however, must be provided whereby the used 
dishes may be kept out of sight. The following suggestions 
may be found useful for this purpose : 

Procure a wooden box, size about 18x24x12 inches, 
and have the man of the family make a lid for it, which 
should be hinged to the back. Now line it, lid and all, with 
tin, or, better still, zinc. If this cannot be done at home 
take it to a tinner. Paint or varnish the outside. This is 
now a water tight, vermin proof receptacle in which the 
dishes may be kept in water until a convenient time for 
washing. 

Keep the box in any available space in the kitchen. A 
shelf may be made under the sink or the kitchen table for it, 
or it may be kept in the pantry. 

If one does not care to go to as much expense as the 
above involves, two dish pans of large size may be used. 
The dishes should be piled in one and covered with the 
other. 

If there are only a few dishes, the dishpan containing 
them may be put into the oven of a gas range. 

Paper Towels 

The tissue towels now on the market are a great con- 
venience in dishwashing. In quantities, they cost about one- 
fifth of a cent each in rolls and about one-fifteenth of a 
cent each in sheets, 12x18 inches. They should be used 
only with dry hands on dishes and silver that have been 
well drained. With this precaution, the towels may be 
dried and used a number of times like linen towels, until 
they become soiled, when they are thrown away. This 
saves the task of washing dish towels. 

Cleaning Silver 

One of the latest inventions for removing the tarnish 
from metal articles, particularly silver and silver plate and 
gold, is a set of two zinc pans, one with a perforated bottom 



FEBBUABY MENUS 



217 



placed inside the other. The silver is laid in the pan, 
covered with boiling water to which salt and soda have 
been added, allowed to stand several minutes, or, if very 
black, boiled 5 minutes, removed from the water and 
rinsed thoroughly. All tarnish disappears as if by magic. 
The silver has a frosted appearance which comes bright 
with very little rubbing. 




SILVER-CLEAN PAN (Price $2.00) 

If one does not care to invest in such a device as the 
above, about the same results may be accomplished by boil- 
ing the silver in a granite pan with pieces of zinc in the 
water and with salt and soda added in the proportion of 
I tablespoonful salt and i tablespoonful cooking soda to each 
quart of water. Or an old aluminum dish may be used. 

The action is an electro chemical one. The soda in the 
presence of silver acts on the zinc or aluminum slightly, 
producing a little hydrogen, which changes the oxides and 
sulphides of silver, which make the tarnish, back into silver, 
so that even silver-plate is not harmed. 

To Prevent Discoloration of Fruit 

To keep fresh pared fruit, such as apples, peaches, 
bananas, etc., from discoloring, wrap well in tissue, waxed 
or manilla paper, and set in a cool place. 



218 LESSONS IN COOErNG 

Carrying Two Liquids in a Thermos Bottle 

In a thermos bottle with a capacity of i quart, two dif- 
ferent liquids of the same temperature may be carried by 
the following method: The opening of this size bottle 
is about I inch in diameter. Hence a test tube ^ inch in 
diameter, and lo inches long, holding approximately 8 
ounces, J^ pint, may be filled, sealed with a cork 
dipped in melted paraffin, and inserted in the large bottle 
into which the other liquid has already been poured. Thus 
in this way lemon juice, for example, and milk, may each 
be carried in the same bottle. 

To Slice Bacon Thin 

To be assured of thinly sliced bacon, ask the butcher to 
cut it with the dried beef sheer. It is particularly nice to 
have it sliced in this way when it is desired to use the 
bacon for wrapping oysters, etc. 

To Cream Butter for Cake 

When creaming butter and sugar for cake, especially if 
making in large quantities, use a wire potato masher. It 
will produce excellent results in a short time and with little 
expenditure of energy. 

Using Beets in Mince Meat 

If apples are scarce when making mince meat, substitute 
boiled beets, chopped fine. The result is very good indeed. 

To Prepare Fruit for Salads 

It is very easy to prepare fruit for marmalade, salads, 
etc., if a large pair of scissors are used. Slice the fruit 
first, then cut into small pieces with the scissors. 

Cold cooked meats and vegetables may also be prepared 
for salads, etc., in this way. 

Emergency Cakes 

Graham or oatmeal crackers frosted make very acceptable 
emergency cakes. 

To Keep Cheese from Drying 

If it is found necessary to keep a large piece of cheese 
for any length of time, pour melted paraffin over the cut 
surface. As the cheese is used this seal may be repeated. 



FEBRUARY MENUS, COST AND FOOD VALUE- 
FOUR PERSONS 



Supplies Cost 

5 lbs. Flour $ .15 

5 lbs. Bread 25 

1 lb. Rice 08 

% pkg. Rolled Oats 01% 

Vs pkg. Cream of Wheat. .02 

% pkg. Pettijohn 01 % 

% lb. Cracked Wheat.. .01 14 
% pkg. Hominy Grits.. .01^ 

Vi lb. ivlacaroni 04 

51/2 lbs. Sugar 33 

1 pt. Syrup 0« 

1/2 lb. Maple Sugar 05 V^ 

% lb. I'earl Tapioca... .05 
y^ pt. Gooseberry Jam. .15 

1 can Sardines 10 

3 lbs. Round Steak... .42 
Va lb. Codfish 08 

4 lbs. Rump Roast 56 

2 necks mutton 28 

1 can Salmon 18 

1 knuckle of Veal 10 

11/2 lbs. Mutton Chops.. .30 

2 Kidneys 16 

3 lbs. Duck 66 

41/2 doz. Eggs, at 35c 1.58 

8 qts. Milk 64 

2 pts. Cream 40 

Va lb. Cheese 10 

3 lbs. Butter 96 

14 lb. Suet 05 

1 pk. Potatoes 30 

1 Squash 15 

2 cans Tomatoes 20 

% can String Beans... .06 

12 Onions 15 

% lb. Hominy 02 

% lb. Lima Beans 03 

1 Cabbage 04 

2 bunches Celery 20 

1 pt. Cranberries 10 

pk. Apples 10 

lb. Figs 10 

lb. Dates 05 

lb. Raisins 08 

lb. Currants 02 

can Cherries 06 

lb. Apricots 08 

Oranges 12 

Lemon , .02^^ 

Bananas 06 

rapefruit 25 

lb. Shredded Cocoanut. .10 

lb. Nuts 20 

lb. Cocoa 02 

lb. Chocolate 02 

lb. Cofifee 22 

lb. Tea 04 



^^ 
% 
% 

y-i. 
4 
1 
4 

2 G 

y-i 
y^ 

1/32 
■h 
% 

Total for Week $10.60 88,647 14.033 34,219 40,595 

Food Units per Day — 12,697. Food Units per Day per Person — 3.173 
Cost OF Food per Day — $1.51. Cost op Pood per Day per Person 

Of the Total Food Value, 15% is Protein, 39% is Fat, and 46% 
is Starch and Sugar. 

219 





FOOD UNITS 











Starch and 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Sugar 


9,840 


1,180 


294 


6,970 


6,025 


783 


362 


4,880 


1,632 


144 


16 


1,472 


426 


77 


30 


319 


354 


53 


18 


283 


426 


77 


30 


319 


426 


77 


30 


319 


426 


77 


30 


319 


800 


120 


16 


664 


10,230 






10,230 


2,000 






2,000 


1,000 






1,000 


1,000 


10 


16 


980 


800 


4 


20 


776 


400 


200 


200 




3,330 


1,800 


1,530 






200 


190 


10 






4,440 


2,398 


2,042 






1.060 


572 


488 






1,072 


320 


752 






480 


202 


278 






1,992 


896 


1,096 






600 


3G6 


234 






5,424 


864 


4,560 






4,284 


1,373 


2,911 






5,200 


992 


2,704 


1,504 


1,820 


91 


1,565 


164 


1,028 


258 


750 


20 


10,815 


54 


10,761 




881 


4 


877 




2,247 


247 


22 


1,978 


448 


32 


32 


384 


420 


88 


30 


302 


250 


32 


25 


193 


300 


39 


15 


246 


400 


44 


8 


348 


207 


56 


48 


163 


217 


43 


18 


156 


100 


24 


4 


72 


200 


6 


24 


170 


440 


13 


31 


396 


600 


30 




570 


725 


14 


51 


660 


600 


18 


54 


528 


100 


3 


9 


88 


200 


10 


20 


170 


664 


48 


16 


600 


340 


20 


12 


308 


36 


3 


5 


28 


300 


14 


16 


270 


200 


14 


8 


178 


1,200 


64 


832 


304 


1,600 


160 


1,328 


112 


72 


12 


38 


22 


150 


12 


108 


30 



220 LESSONS IN COOKING 

SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING THE COST OF 
THE FEBRUARY MENUS 

Substitute oleomargarine or snowdrift for butter in cook- 
ing. Use top of milk in place of cream for cereal and coffee. 
In cooking with milk reduce by adding half water, or by 
skimmed milk at $.05 a quart. 

In L. 109 omit dates from the cereal; also the creamed 
sardines in L. no. In L, in serve the string beans plain, 
omitting the cream sauce. Also omit salad. In L. 114, substi- 
tute Indian pudding for cherry souffle. 

In L. 115 omit the cereal. Serve the onions plain, leaving 
out the cream sauce in L. 117. In L. 118, omit the bananas 
and in L. 119 the stewed figs, using them for dessert in L. 
120 in place of Maple custard pie. 

In L. 121 omit the eggs and in L. 124 the oranges. Also 
omit the chops in L. 125. Substitute Chocolate Blanc 
Mange for Chocolate Mousse in L. 126. In L. 127 substi- 
tute oranges for grapefruit. In L. 128 substitute 3 lbs, beef 
roast for the duck, and in L. 129 plain cake for pound 
cake. 

ESTIMATED REDUCTIONS— OMISSIONS AND SUBSTITU- 
TIONS 

1% lbs. butter, $.48 less Eggs brouilli 15 

1% lbs. oleo, .30 18 2 oranges 06 

2 pints cream 40 1^/^ lbs. mutton chops 30 

2 qts. milk 16 Chocolate mousse, $.30 less 

34 lb. dates 02 Chocolate B. M., .10 20 

1 can sardines 10 Grapefruit $.25 less 

Cream sauce for sardines Oranges, .05 20 

and string beans 12 Duck, $.66 less 

Cabbage and apple salad. . .08 3 lbs. beef roast, .42 24 

Cherry souffle, $.30 less Pound cake, $.37 less 

Indian Pudding, .05 25 Loaf cake, .15 22 

Hominy grits 02 

Cream and sugar for cereal. .04 $ 3.20 

Cream sauce from onions. . .06 Original total cost $10.60 

4 bananas 06 Eeduction 3.20 

1/2 lb. figs 10 

Maple custard pie, $.34 less New total cost per ■wk.$ 7.40 

% lb. figs, .10 24 New cost per day 1.06 

New cost per day per person ,26 



MARCH MENUS 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

PART VII 



MARKETING AND CUTS OF MEAT 

The best way to study marketing and the cuts of meat is 
to go right to the market, select the meat and ask questions 
of the butcher. If this is done in the right way a great deal 
of vahiable information can be obtained. The average 
housekeeper knows two or three cuts of meat, namely, the 
round, porterhouse and rib roast. " Some of the most nutri- 
tious cuts are the cheapest, and if one knows how to cook 
them properly, these will be much more satisfactory than 
some of the most expensive cuts. 

The following is a list of the cuts arranged according to 
price and use : 









Stews and 




Steaks 


Boasts 


Pot Roasts 


Casseroles 


Corning 


Tenderloin 


Fillet 


Eump 


Eump 


Plate 


Porterhouse 


Eib 


Eound 


Eound 


Brisket 


Sirloin 


Loin 


Shoulder 


Shoulder 


Navel 


Eump 




Flank 


Flank 




Eound 






Neck 




Flank 










Skirt 











The tenderloin is the long tender muscle that lies under 
the back bone. It is very tender, and has a delicate flavor 
but contains no fat. In the best beef it is sliced with the 
porterhouse and sirloin steaks, but with the poorer beef it is 
removed whole and sold either as a fillet, or sliced. It 
should be larded, baked at a low temperature, and served 
rare. It is the most expensive and least nutritious in pro- 
portion to the cost, of 'all the cuts of beef. 

The porterhouse are the cuts of steak lying between the 
ribs and the hip bone. The back bone forms a T shape and 
hence they are sometimes called the T-bone steaks. 

The sirloin steaks begin with the hip bone and contain a 
piece of it as well as part of the back bone. These as well 
as the porterhouse are tender steaks, can be cooked quickly, 
and should be served rare. 

Copyright, 1912, by Home Economics Association. 

221 



222 LESSONS IN COOKING 

The rump steak, requiring a peculiar cutting, is rarely 
offered for sale in the ordinary markets, but is a delicious 
steak. 

The round, cut from the thigh and containing a small 
piece of bone, is one of the commonest cuts. The first cuts 
of the round may be used as a steak when taken from good 
beef, but usually it is not tender enough to permit of quick 
cooking. However, it is one of the most nutritious and 
cheapest cuts of the animal and lends itself to a great variety 
of ways in cooking. 

Flank steak, of which there are only two steaks in each 
beef, lies to the front of the hind leg on the flank. It is a 
fiat muscle and the grain runs with the cut instead of across 
it. It is not used as much as it should be, for it is very 
rich in flavor and nutriment. By rolling and slicing it 
across the grain, it can be cooked as an ordinary steak, and 
served rare. Like round, it can be made very delicious and 
tender when subjected to long, slow cooking. 

The skirt steak is similar to the flank and can be cooked 
in the same way. 

For oven roasts, the fillet, rib, and loin are the best. The 
rib roast when bought with rib on, is called a standing rib 
roast. When the rib has been removed and the roast is 
rolled it is called a rolled rib roast. 

For pot roasts the rump and round are the best, being 
solid pieces of meat without much bone and having excel- 
lent flavor. The shoulder and flank rank next. 

For stezi's and casseroles and other cooking at low tem- 
peratures the tougher cuts can be used the same as in pot 
roast. 

In mutton, lamb, veal, and pork, the cuts are much the 
same, the chop in each case corresponding to the rib roast 
and porterhouse steak of the beef. The leg furnishes 
steaks corresponding to the round steaks of the beef, but 
are generally used for roasts. The tougher parts are used 
for stews, etc. 



MARCH MENUS 

BREAKFAST 
Monday Lesson 131 

RALSTON — CREAM AND SUGAR 

TONGUE ON TOAST DOUGHNUTS 

COFFEE 

Ralston 

}i c Ralston Breakfast Food, 2 c boiling water, y^ t 
salt. 
Tongue on Toast 

Put enough boiled tongue through the meat grinder to 
make % c. Add to 2 c Medium Brown Sauce (4 T browned 
flour, 4 T butter, 2 c milk, to which i T lemon juice and 
I T chopped parsley have been added), heat thoroughly and 
serve on toast. 
Doughnuts 

I c sugar, 2 eggs, 3 T melted butter, i t salt, % t nutmeg, 
4 t baking powder, 2 c flour, i c milk or water. See p. 170. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal and then make the Brown Sauce. For 
this brown the flour, then proceed as in White Sauce. 
While this is cooking over hot water grind the tongue, 
make the coffee, then the toast. Add the tongue to the 
sauce and heat thoroughly. Serve the cereal, then the 
Tongue Toast, Doughnuts, which have been previously 
made, and the Coffee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Monday Lesson 132 

FRIZZLED BEEF WITH EGG TURKISH PILAF 

SWEDISH ROLLS GRAPE JAM 

TEA 

Frizzled Beef wdth Egg 

Break % pound dried beef into small pieces. Beat 4 
eggs lightly, add ^ c milk or cream and mix well. Melt 
2 T butter in a frying pan, add the beef and stir until the 
sides curl up. Pour the egg mixture over this, and stir all 
together over a slozv fire. When the egg is set, but not 
hard, turn over like an omelet and serve at once. 

223 



224 LSSSONS IN COOKING 

Turkish Pilaf 

Heat Yz c strained tomatoes with i c stock or hot water, 
and when boiHng add }i c blanched rice (p. 44) and ^ t 
salt; stir lightly with a fork until the liquor is absorbed, 
then add ^ c butter and cook over hot water until the rice 
is tender. Serve at once. 

Swedish Roils 

Mix and sift 2 c flour, ^ t salt, 33^^ t baking-powder, 
I T sugar and ^ t cinnamon. With the tips of the fingers 
work in 3 T butter. Beat i egg, add about }i c rich milk, 
then add to the flour mixture. If the dough is too stiff add 
more milk. Toss onto a floured board, roll and pat out into 
a rectangular sheet ^ inch thick. Spread with 2 T soft- 
ened butter, sprinkle with 34 c sugar, 2 t cinnamon, and ^ c 
raisins or currants. Roll up like a jelly roll and cut into 
pieces about i inch thick. Bake on a greased tin 18 m. 
Brush over with a little sugar dissolved in milk and return 
to the oven to brown. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I h before luncheon start the rice to cooking for 
the Turkish Pilaf, 15 m later make the Swedish Rolls, and 
while baking prepare the Frizzled Beef. Make the tea and 
serve the luncheon. 

Imm.ediately after lunch prepare the Coffee Cream for 
dinner. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 133 

MOCK DUCK 

MASHED rOTATOES PEAS — ENGLISH FASHION 

ORANGE AND MALAGA GRAPE SALAD 

COFFEE CREAM 

Mock Duck 

Select a fore quarter of muLton with the whole length of 
the leg bone left on. Ask the butcher to cut off what is 
called a raised shoulder, that is, raised from the back bone 
and ribs, cutting it far up on the shoulder to take in the 
whole of the shoulder blade, bone and gristle. Scrape the 



MABCn MENUS 225 

flesh from the shoulder blade, and separate the blade at 
die ioinr Lay aside for further use. Remove the meat 
from the le? bone, turning it over as you would turn a 
go" wrong^ide ok over the hand Be carefu^^not to cut 
throu-h th? thin skin at the end of the leg bone. When 
w thii 3 inches of the lower joint, saw the bone off and 
Sm below the joint into the shape of a duck s bill. Bend 
Ihe joinrwithoit breaking the skin. Wipe the meat and 

'^Maket m^stlffing of i c breadcrumbs, /s t each salt^ 
pepper, thyme, and mSisten with K c butter melted with 
?1 c wkter, and put in between the layers of meat. 
^WiTh a coarse needle threaded with twme gather the 
ed^fof\^eat draw them together, fdl the --ty -th 
stuffing, and shape the meat mto a long oval foim like the 

Kinl t'heTeg at the lower joint to represent the duck's 
head and neck, and keep it in place with skewers. Run 
ofe skTwer'hriugh the sjde at the top of the body and put 
one into the body on each side of the neck. Wind a strin 
around the bill, and fasten it to the skewers. Scrape the 
shoukler Hade clean, trim the lower end into a sharp, point 
and notch the gristk at the opposite end. Insert this into 
?he body to represent the tail, and fasten with wine. 

Purthe bones and scraps of meat into a kettle of water 
.nd steam the duck over it for i h to make it tender. 
Dredte with ah, pepper, and flour and bake for i h or 
^ntil tender and brown. Use the water from the kettle for 
basllng "^necessary. Tie paper over the head and tail to 
keep from burning. 

Peas— English Fashion 

Heat I can of peas, adding I sprig of mint when the peas 
are put over the fire. Drain, remove tl^en.nt, season w^^^^^ 
y, t salt, dash of pepper, i t sugar, and 2 T butter, berve 
very hot. 

Orange and Malaga Grape Salad , t>i u 

Halve V2 c Malaga grapes and remove the seeds Blanch 
U c Engli h wal^^^^ o^r pecans, and break into small pieces 
Separate 2 oranges into sections and cut each section mto 



226 LESSONS IN COOKING 

3 parts. Toss the ingredients together, using 2 forks, 
cover with Salad Dressing (p. 29), and serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Coffee Cream 

Soak y2 box or 2 T granulated gelatine in 3^ c cold vi^ater 
for 20 m. Dissolve in i c boiling water, strain and add 
y^ c sugar and 2 c boiled coffee. Mould and when thor- 
oughly chilled and set serve with whipped cream. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 2^, h before dinner prepare the Mock Duck and 
set to steaming. An hour before dinner put the duck in 
the oven ; wash, pare and cook the potatoes. Cook the peas 
with the mint, then make the salad and set in a cool place 
until needed. Drain and mash the potatoes, drain and sea- 
son peas, remove the duck from the oven and make gravy, 
if desired. Serve the dinner. 

The dessert should be made immediately after lunch, or 
if more convenient, after breakfast, and set in a cool place 
until needed. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 134 

PETTIJOHN — CHOPPED FIGS 

CREAM AND SUGAR 

EGGS IN BATTER DRY TOAST 

COFFEE 

Pettijohn 

I c pettijohn, 2 c water, 3^2 t salt. Add ^ c chopped 
figs just before serving. 

Eggs in Batter 

Mix together 6 T thick cream, ^ c bread crumbs, and 
y^ t salt. Put 2 T of the mixture in each of 4 egg shirrers 
or ramikins, slip an egg into each, cover with the remaining 
mixture and bake 6 m in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal, stirring the chopped figs into it. Pre- 
pare the eggs in batter and while baking make the coffee 
and brown the toast under the oven burners if gas stove is 
used. Serve the cereal, then the eggs, toast and coffee. 



MABCH MENUS 227 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 135 

shepherd's pie squash timbale 

brei\d and butter tea 

Shepherd's Pie 

Line a baking dish with potatoes mashed very soft with 
milk. Over this place a layer of cold chopped cooked meat. 
Then another layer of potato. Cover the top with buttered 
crumbs and bake until thoroughly heated throughout and 
browned on the top. 
Squash Timbale 

To 2 c mashed squash add the yolks of 2 eggs well 
beaten, i t sah and a dash of pepper. Mix well and cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs. Put into custard 
or timbale cups, stand in a pan of water and bake in a 
moderate oven until set. 
Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before lunch make the Shepherd's Pie, then 
the Squash Timbales, and put both in the oven at the same 
time, just before they are done make the tea, cut the 
bread and butter, then serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Tuesday , Lesson 136 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 

BRAIZED LIVER WITH VEGETABLES 

POTATO BALLS IN CREAM HOT SLAW 

PRUNE PIE 

Split Pea Soup . , , , , , 

Wash y2 pint split peas, cover with cold water and soak 
overnight. In the morning drain, add i quart stock and 

1 pint water, or i>< quarts water, a bit of bay leaf, sprig 
of thyme, 3^ t salt, and a dash of pepper. Simmer about 

2 h or until the peas are tender ; then press through a sieve. 
Melt I T butter, add i T flour, then add gradually the 

soup and stir until boiling. Add i small onion grated, and 
just before serving i T chopped parsley. 
Braized Liver with Vegetables 

Dice I carrot, i turnip, I onion and i stalk of celery, 



228 LESSONS IN COOKING 

and arrange in the bottom of a baking pan. In a calf's 
liver make 2 incisions about 3 inches apart, in which insert 
strips of bacon or salt pork, and place the liver in the 
baking pan on the bed of vegetables. Add 2 c stock or hot 
water, bit of parsley and bay leaf, and 2 cloves. Cover 
and bake in a moderate oven for 2 h or until tender. Re- 
move to a hot platter, placing the vegetables around it, and 
make a gravy in the pan, using i T butter, i T flour, and 
I c of liquid from the meat, adding hot water if there is 
not enough for that quantity. 

Potato Balls in Cream 

With a French vegetable cutter cut i pint of balls, reserv- 
ing for future use scraps of potato left. Cook in boiling 
salted water, then drain, add i c Medium White Sauce 
(p. 38) and serve at once. 

Hot Slaw 

Shred ^ cabbage. Beat the yolks of 2 or i whole egg 
slightly, add j4 c cold water, i T butter, ^ t salt, and 34 c 
hot vinegar. Add the cabbage and stir over hot water 
until the cabbage is hot and the dressing is thickened. 

Prune Pie 

Wash and soak ^i pound prunes overnight. In the morn- 
ing stew until tender in the water in which they were 
soaked. Cool and remove the stones. Make paste of i^ c 
flour, }i t salt, yi t baking-powder, ^ c shortening, ice 
water to make a stiff paste. (See p. 130.) Line a pie plate 
with the paste, add the prunes, Yj c sugar, 2 T butter, juice 
of y2 lemon, %. t salt, and 2 T flour. Cover with paste 
and bake until the crust is brown and flaky. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 2^ h before dinner make the Split Pea Soup from 
the peas, which have soaked overnight ; or if a fireless 
cooker is available the soup may be made in the morning 
and left in the cooker all day. Prepare the Braized Liver 
and place in the oven. Cut the potato balls and stand in 
cold water until ready to cook. Now make the Prune 
Pie, the prunes having been previously soaked and cooked. 

One-half hour before dinner cook the Potato Balls, make 



MAECH MENUS 22b 

I c Medium White Sauce (p. 38), then prepare the Hot 
Slaw. Drain the potatoes and add to the White Sauce; 
remove the Hver and vegetables from the oven, place on a 
hot platter, make the gravy and serve the dinner. Leave 
the pie in the oven until ready to use, turning out the gas, 
however. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 137 

TANGERINES 

CREAMED MACKEREL CORNMEAL PUFFS 

COFFEE 

Tangerines 

Divide the skin into eighths, beginning with the blossom 
end. Taking care to cut just through the skin, peel down 
and then separate the sections of the fruit, so they will lie 
on the skin, forming a flower effect. Do not separate at 
the base. 

Creamed Mackerel 

Soak a salt mackerel for 24 h, then lay in a shallow stew 
pan, and add i>4 c milk. Simmer for 15 m. Remove the 
fish to a hot dish and add to the hot milk 2 T flour rubbed 
to a paste with 2 T butter. Stir until thickened and the 
flour thoroughly cooked. Add a dash of pepper, i T 
chopped parsley and pour around the fish. 

Cornmeal Fuffs 

Scald I c milk, add i T butter, % t salt, then gradually 
stir in ^ c cornmeal ; cook a few m, stirring constantly, 
then cool. Beat 2 eggs lightly, add to the cornmeal mix- 
ture, then add }i c sugar, }i c flour and 2 t baking-powder 
sifted together. Mix thoroughly, turn into hot buttered 
muffin pans and bake 15-20 m in a hot oven. This recipe 
makes li delicious puffs. 

Preparing the Meal 

The mackerel should be soaked the day before. 

The first thing in the morning start the sponge for the 
rolls for lunch, then make the cornmeal puffs and while 
baking cook the mackerel, make the coffee, prepare the 
tangerines and place on the table. Make the roux (p. 38) 



230 LESSONS IN COOKING 

for thickening the milk for the fish, then place the fish on 
the table. Remove the fish to a hot platter, thicken the 
milk, and when the sauce is thoroughly cooked pour around 
the fish. Place where it will keep warm while the fruit is 
being eaten, then serve the mackerel, cornmeal puffs and 
coffee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 138 

SWEETBREAD SOUFFLE BAKED POTATOES 

ALMOND ROLLS BLACKBERRY AND CURRANT JAM 

TEA 

Sweetbread Souffle 

Melt I T butter, add i T flour and when well blended add 
gradually i c milk or stock. Let boil up a few minutes, 
stirring constantly, then add ^ c bread crumbs, i c cold 
cooked sweetbreads, chopped fine, the yolk of I egg, }i t 
salt, a dash of pepper, Yz t onion juice, }4 T chopped pars- 
ley, and Yi t celery salt. Mix well together, then cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten white of i egg. Place in a but- 
tered baking dish, set in a pan of water, and bake 25 m or 
until firm. 

Baked Potatoes 

Wash and scrub thoroughly 4 medium sized potatoes. 
Rub the skins well with lard or butter, and bake until tender 
and mealy, about i h, in a moderate oven. The fat rubbed 
into the skins makes them tender and glossy, and imparts a 
delicious flavor obtained in no other way. 

Almond Rolls 

Add I cake compressed yeast to 34 c lukewarm milk. 
When dissolved add Ya c flour, beat thoroughly, cover, and 
set in a warm place to rise. When light or double in bulk, 
add I c scalded milk, cooled, and 2>4 c flour. Mix well, 
cover and let rise again ; then add Ya- c melted butter, ^ c 
sugar, I well beaten egg, Ya t salt, >'2 t almond extract, and 
% c flour. Toss onto a floured board and knead, using 
Ya c flour. Shape into round rolls, sprinkle the tops with 
chopped almonds, let rise, then bake in a moderate over 
about Y2 h. 



MARCH M'ENUS 231 

Preparing the Meal 

About i^ h before lunch wash and cook the sweet- 
breads, then prepare the potatoes for baking. When the 
sweetbreads are tender, drain and cover with cold acidulated 
water, then make the sauce for the soufifie. Chop the sweet- 
breads, finish the souffle and place in the oven to bake. 
The rolls w^hich were started early in the morning should 
be ready for baking when the potatoes are put in the oven. 
Place the jam on the table, make the tea and serve the 
lunch as soon as the potatoes, rolls and souffle are done. 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 139 

BREADED MUTTON CHOPS 
STEWED POTATOES PEAS 

ST. David's pudding 

Breaded Mutton Chops 

Wipe and trim mutton chops, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in crumbs, egg, then crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat from 5-8 m, then drain. Do not fry more than 4 chops 
at a time, and allow the fat to reheat between fryings. 
After testing fat for temperature put in the chops, then 
lower the heat that the surface of the chops may not be 
burned while the inside is yet under done. 

Stewed Potatoes 

Wash, pare and dice 4 potatoes. In a saucepan melt 2 T 
butter, add 2 T flour, i T each chopped onion and celery, 
and y2 t salt. When well blended add gradually 2 c hot 
water and the potato cubes. Cover and cook slowly for 
y^ h, or until the potatoes are tender. Add i T chopped 
parsley and serve at once. 

Peas 

Drain liquor from i can of peas, heat with just enough 
moisture to keep from burning, add i T butter, ^ t salt, 
I t sugar, pour around the chops, and serve at once. 

St. David's Pudding 

Pare and core 3 apples, then cut them into eighths. Cook 
until tender in 3^ c water and yi c sugar, heated to the sim- 
mering point. Shell, blanch and shred j4 pound almonds. 



232 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Melt % c butter and stir into it ^4 c macaroon crumbs, or 
any stale cake crumbs. Place the crumbs, nuts and apple 
in alternate layers in a buttered baking dish, pouring over 
all any remaining syrup and 2 T orange juice. Bake in a 
slow oven for y>-^ h. Peaches or other fruit may be sub- 
stituted for apples. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I h before dinner time prepare and bake the pud- 
ding. Then wash, pare and dice the potatoes and cook. 
Prepare the chops for frying, open and drain i can of 
peas and place in pan to be heated. Heat the fat for frying, 
cut the bread and butter and place on the table. While the 
chops are frying, heat and season the peas, and when all is 
ready serve the dinner. The pudding may be left in the 
oven until needed, as long cooking only adds to its flavor. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 140 

OATMEAL CREAM AND SUGAR 

SAUSAGE CREAM SCONES 

COFFEE 

Oatmeal 

To 3 c boiling water add i}i c oatmeal and i t salt. 
For directions see p. 10, if necessary. Reserve i c of the 
porridge for future use. 

Sausage 

Cover the sausage, pricked in every part with a fork, 
with boiling water, simmer 15 m, then drain and brown on 
top the stove or in the oven^ as desired. Serve at once. 

Cream Scones 

Sift together 2 c flour, 3 t baking powder, and >^ t salt. 
Add j'i c butter and work into the flour thoroughly with 
the finger tips. Beat 2 eggs well, add 3/^ c cream, and add 
slowly to the flour mixture. Roll the dough out to about 
1/2 inch in thickness, cut into diamond or triangular shapes, 
and bake in a hot oven 12 to 15 m. 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal, then cover the sausage with boiling 
water and simmer. Make the Cream Scones and while 



MAECE MENUS 233 

baking make the coffee and brown the sausage. Serve the 
cereal, then the sausage, scones and coffee. 

After breakfast make the brown bread for lunch. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 141 

CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUP 

SCALLOPED SPAGHETTI BROWN BREAD 

TEA 

Cream of Vegetable Soup 

Mix together y^ c carrot, ^ c turnip, y^ c celery, j/z 
onion, i^ c potato and ^ t finely chopped parsley. Add 
I pint boiling water, cover and cook slowly for i h. Drain, 
reserving the liquid, pass the vegetables through a vegetable 
press and add to the liquid. IMelt 4 T butter, add 4 T 
flour and when well blended 2 c milk. ]\Iix thoroughly 
and add to the vegetable pulp and liquid. Heat well, boil- 
ing a iew m to cook the flour ; serve at once. 

Scalloped Spaghetti 

Break ^ pound spaghetti into small pieces, cover with 
boiling salted water and cook 20 m, or until tender, stirring 
occasionally. Remove from the fire, drain, cover with cold 
water to whiten, drain and arrange in layers in a baking 
dish, adding grated cheese and tomatoes alternately between 
the layers. There should be ^ c grated cheese and i c 
tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper, and 2 T butter, 
cover the top with buttered crumbs, and bake 3^ h in a 
moderate oven. 

Brown Bread 

I c rye meal, i c granulated cornmeal, i c graham flour, 
}i t soda, 1^2 t salt, % c molasses, i^ c milk or water. 
See p. 31. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I h before lunch prepare and cook the vegetables 
for the soup. Then cook the spaghetti, prepare with the 
cheese and tomato, and bake. Make the brown bread im- 
mediately after breakfast. Finish the soup and make the 
tea. Serve the lunch, leaving the spaghetti in the dish in 
which it was baked. 



234 LESSONS IN COOKING 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 142 

VEAL LOAF 

MASHED POTATOES STEWED CELERY 

BROWN BETTY — NUTMEG SAUCE 

Veal Loaf 

Wipe i^ pounds lean veal, remove all skin and mem- 
branes, then put through the meat grinder, together with 
^ pound lean pork and 6 crackers. Add 2 T cream, i T 
lemon juice, ^ T salt, ^ t pepper, and a few drops of 
onion juice. Mix thoroughly, pack in a small bread pan, 
smooth the top evenly and bake ij^ h, basting with 2 T 
pork fat mixed v/ith 2 T hot water. Serve either hot or 
cold, as suits one's taste and convenience. 

Mashed Potatoes 

4 potatoes, i>4 T butter, J4 t salt, }i c hot milk or cream. 
See p. 15. 

Stewed Celery 

Use the outside pieces of celery that are not sufficiently 
tender and white to serve raw. Wash carefully, cut into 
pieces i inch long, using i pint of the celery. Add i quart 
boiling salted water, cook just below the boiling point for 
at least >^ h. Drain, reserving the liquid. Melt 2 T butter, 
add 2 T flour and when well blended 2 c of the liquid in 
which the celery was cooked. Stir until boiling, add ^^ t 
salt, dash of pepper and the pieces of celery. Cook 5 m 
longer and serve. 

BrovTti Petty 

In a baking dish place a layer of thin slices of bread and 
butter. Over this a layer of apples, pared, cored and sliced ; 
sprinkle with ^ t cinnamon and >4 c brown sugar and 
pour ^ c hot water over this ; then cover with another 
layer of bread and butter, butter side up. Bake in a slow 
oven I h. Serve plain or with Nutmeg Sauce. 

Nutmeg Sauce 

Mix together i T cornstarch, y^ t salt, Yz c sugar._ Add 
slowly, stirring constantly, i c boiling water. Boil well 
for 5 m, add >4 T butter and }i t grated nutmeg, and 
serve at once. 



MAECE MENUS 235 

Preparing the Meal 

About 2 h before dinner prepare the veal loaf. While 
baking prepare the Brown Betty and place in the oven. 
Then wash the celery, cut into pieces, cover with boiling 
water and cook slowly until tender. Wash and pare the 
potatoes, allowing enough for dinner the following eve- 
ning, and cover with cold water until time to be cooked. 
When the celery is done, drain, reserving the liquid, and 
set aside until time to finish the preparation. 

^ h before dinner cook the potatoes, make the Nutmeg 
Sauce and finish the Stewed Celery. Drain and mash po- 
tatoes, remove the Veal Loaf to a hot platter, make gravy 
if desired, and serve the dinner. Wash and soak the prunes 
for dessert the following evening. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 143 

CANNED PEARS ON CORNFLAKES 

OATMEAL WAFFLES SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Oatmeal Waffles 

To I c cold cooked oatmeal add i c milk, i T melted 
butter, and J^ c whole wheat flour, ^ t salt and 2 t baking 
powder sifted together ; beat well, add the beaten yolks of 
2 eggs and lastly cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 
Bake on a hot greased waffle iron and serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

The first thing in the morning make the sponge for the 
whole wheat bread and set in a warm place to rise. 

Open a can of pears and serve with the cornflak'es. 
Make the cofifee, also the syrup if necessary, then the Oat- 
meal Waffles. Heat the waffle iron while the fruit is 
being eaten. Bake the waffles and serve at once with the 
cofifee. Immediately after breakfast cook the prunes and 
make the prune jelly for dinner. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 144 

"^OCK OYSTERS BAKED ONIONS 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD AND BUTTER 

TEA 



236 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Mock Oysters 

Scrape i dozen oyster plants or salsify roots, cover with 
boiling salted water, cook slowly for 94 h, or until tender. 
Drain and press through a colander. Add i t salt, dash of 
pepper and 3 eggs well beaten. Cover the bottom of a 
frying pan with i T butter or suet, oil, etc., and when hot 
drop in the mixture by the spoonfuls, making each the 
shape of an oyster. Brown carefully on each side, then 
serve at once. 

Baked Onions 

Peel 6 medium sized onions carefully and cook in boil- 
ing salted water for y^ h, drain and place in a small baking 
dish. Add l T butter, V^ t salt, dash of pepper and 3^ c 
v/ater. Bake in a moderate oven ^ h, basting frequently. 
Serve at once with salt and butter. 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Scald I c milk and i c water; when lukewarm add I 
cake compressed yeast dissolved in J4 c lukewarm water, 
^ t salt, and enough whole wheat flour, about 3 c, to make 
a stiff batter. Beat well for 5 m, lifting the dough high 
in the air and folding it over. Scrape down the dough 
from the sides of the bowl, cover with a clean cloth and 
place in a warm place, 80 to 90 Fahr., for 2 h. By this 
time the mixture will be light and spongy. Stir in slowly 
enough whole wheat flour to make a dough. Turn out onto 
a floured board and knead until soft and elastic and no 
longer sticky. Form into 2 or 3 loaves as desired, place 
in greased pans, cover and stand in a warm place until 
double ill l.ulk, about i h. Bake in a moderate oven, 300 
Fahr., % h. When done remove from the pans, place on 
a rack, resting the loaves so that there is free circulation 
of air. When perfectly cool place in the bread box. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 1^:4 h before lunch peel and cook the onions, then 
scrape the salsify and put it on to cook. When the onions 
have cooked Yi h, drain and prepare for the oven. While 
baking finish the preparation of the Mock Oysters and 
saute carefully. Make the tea and serve the lunch. The 
whole wheat bread has been made and baked during the 
morning. 



MARCH M'ENUS 237 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 145 

JERUSALEM FISH BALLS 

rOTATOES A LA CREME MACARONI ENGLISH FASHION 

PRUNE JELLY WITH CREAM 

Jerusalem Fish Balls 

Skin and pick all the flesh from the bones of 2 pounds 
of haddock, halibut or salmon. Put the skin and bones into 
a kettle, cover with i quart cold water, add a bit of bay 
leaf, slice of onion and 2 cloves, and simmer gently ^ h or 
more. While cooking- put the fish through the meat grinder, 
together with j/2 c nut meats — almonds, walnuts, peanuts, 
etc. — add i t salt, dash of pepper and a few grains of mace, 
I egg well beaten, and ^ c bread crumbs. Mix well and 
form into balls the size of an English walnut. Add the 
fish balls to the strained stock and cook just below the boil- 
ing point for 20 m. Remove from the stock and serve 
at once. 

Potatoes a la Creme 

Chop 4 cold boiled potatoes fine, add ^ c cream, 3^ t 
grated nutmeg, i t salt and a dash of pepper. Put into 
small individual moulds and bake 15 m in a hot oven. 

Macaroni — English Fashion 

Break ^ pound macaroni into i inch lengths. Cover 
with boiling salted water and cook quickly for 15 m. 
Drain, reserving the liquor, cover with i c milk and i c 
stock. If stock is not available use all milk. Cook slowly 
for 20 m, then turn into a deep dish. Beat the yolks of 2 
eggs with yi c cream, add 3^ c of the macaroni liquor, cook 
a few m over hot water, add ys c grated cheese and pour 
all over the macaroni. Place i T butter in dots over the 
top, brown a few m under the broiler burners, and serve 
at once. 

Prune Jelly 

Wash y2 pound prunes well, cover with 2 c warm water 
and soak over night. In the morning slowly cook the prunes 
until tender in the water in which they were soaked, allow- 
ing the liquor to evaporate until but 3^ c remains. Soak 
34 box gelatine in 3<2 c cold water >^ h. Remove the prunes 



238 LESSONS IN COOKING 

from the liquid, take out the seeds and press the pulp 
through a colander. Add the soaked gelatine, ^ c sugar, 
and the prune pulp to the hot prune liquid, turn into a wet 
mould and place in a cold place to harden. Serve with 
cream, or beat the whites of 2 eggs (using those left from 
the macaroni) until stiff, then cut and fold into the prune 
mixture just before moulding. Serve plain. 

Preparing the Meal 

About an h before dinner remove the skin and bones 
from the fish, and cook the stock. Grind the fish and make 
the balls. Set aside until ready to cook. Break the 
macaroni into the desired lengths and cook 15 m. Drain 
and cover with the milk and stock. While slowly cooking 
make the sauce for it from the eggs, cream and cheese, etc. 
Now add the fish balls to the strained stock, cook slowly, 
then prepare the potatoes a la creme, and place in the oven. 
Finish the macaroni and brown in the oven. Serve the 
dinner, then the prune jelly, which has been made in the 
morning. 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 146 

CREAM OF WHEAT — CREAM AND SUGAR 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF SPONGE BISCUITS 

COFFEE 

Cream of Wheat 

^ c cream of wheat, 2 c boiling water, ^ t salt, as on 
p 17. 

Creamed Dried Beef 

Make a white sauce using 4 T butter, 4 T flour and 2 c 
milk. To it add ^ pound dried beef broken into small 
pieces. Cook about 5 m and just before serving pour very 
slowly onto i well beaten egg. Serve at once. 

Sponge Biscuits 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs, add i c thin cream or rich milk, 
% t salt, and then gradually pour onto i c flour beating 
continuously until perfectly smooth and free from lumps. 
Cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 4 eggs, pour into 
hot greased gem pans and bake about 15 m in a hot oven, 
360 Fahr. 



MABCH MENUS 239 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal, then make the sponge biscuits. While 
they are baking make the creamed dried beef and the 
coffee. Serve the cereal, then the dried beef, sponge biscuits 
and coffee. 

SATURDAY MORNING BAKING 

Baked Figs 

Wash well and soak overnight in just enough water to 
cover, ^ pound of dried whole figs. In the morning add 
3^ c sugar, 1/2 T butter, juice of i lemon, a grating of nut- 
meg and bake i h in a moderate oven. 

Gingerbread 

To Yz c boiling water add i T butter. Pour into i c 
molasses with which i t soda has been mixed, then add 
quickly 2 c flour mixed and sifted with i T ginger and Yz t 
^salt. Beat well, pour into a deep cake pan and bake in a 
moderate oven about i h or until a sterilized straw, when 
inserted, can be withdrawn clean. 

Spice Cakes 

Cream ^ c butter with Yi c sugar, add the beaten yolk 
of I Qgg and cream well, then add Yi c molasses and mix 
all together. Add i c milk alternately with 2Y2 c flour 
mixed and sifted with 2 t soda, i t cream of tartar, 2 t 
cinnamon, Y2 t clove, Ya- t allspice, 34 t nutmeg. When 
well blended add i T lemon juice or vinegar, and cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten white of the tgg. Pour into 
muffin pans or individual cake pans and bake 20 m in a 
moderate oven. 

Noodles 

Two eggs, 2 T milk, Y^ t salt, and flour to make a stiff 
dough. See Lesson 148. 

Method of Work 

Immediately after breakfast prepare the figs and while 
baking make the gingerbread and place in the oven. Then 
make and bake the spice cakes. Now make the noodles 
for Saturday evening dinner and set aside to dry. 



240 ^.ESSONS IN COOKING 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 147 

BOILED RICE PEA CHOWDER 

BREAD AND BUTTER TEA 

Boiled Rice 

Blanch }i c rice — Page 44 — cover with 3 c milk and cook 
in the double boiler until the rice is tender and the liquid 
absorbed. Add more liquid if necessary. Add 3^ t salt 
and serve at once either plain with butter, or with cream 
and sugar, as desired. Reserve i c rice for future use. 

Pea Chowder 

Soak 3^ c split peas over night in cold water; in the 
morning drain, cover with cold water, add a bit of soda 
half the size of a pea, and cook slowly until tender, about 
2 or 3 h. Drain, reserving the liquid for soup if desired, 
add ^ can corn, >^ c milk, ^ t salt and a dash of pepper. 
Cover and cook slowly for y^ h, add i T butter and serve 
at once. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before lunch cook the peas for the chowder; 
2 h later blanch and cook the rice. Half an hour before 
lunch time finish the chowder and just before serving make 
the tea, cut the bread and butter and place on the table. As 
soon as the rice and chowder are done serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 148 

NOODLE SOUP BOILED BEEF 

BOILED POTATOES TURNIPS — GERMAN FASHION 

FRESH GINGERBREAD 

STEAMED FRUIT ROLL — LEMON SAUCE 

Noodles 

Beat 2 eggs slightly, add 2 T milk, ^ t salt and flour 
enough to make a stiff dough. Knead it, working in all the 
flour possible. Roll out very thin, let dry for ^ or ^ h, 
then roll up and cut into very thin slices. Shake out into 
long strips. Add the noodles to the broth and cook ^ h 
or longer. Remove the meat and keep in a warm place 
while serving the soup. 



MAECH MENUS 241 

Boiled Beef 

Wipe a 3 pound piece of beef, from the rump preferably, 
or from the lower part of the round. Cover with boiling 
water to sear the surface and thus retain the juices, then 
cook several h below the boiling- point. The liquid drained 
from the peas may be used in making this broth in addition 
to the water used. Add a bit of bay leaf, a stalk of celery, 
}i onion, i t salt and a dash of pepper, after the meat has 
laeen cooking an h or more. If desired i c tomatoes mjy 
be added also. 

Turnips — German Fashion 

Wash, pare and dice 4 turnips ; put 2 T butter or oil in 
a frying pan, when hot add the turnips and shake over the 
fire until' golden brown in color. Turn them into a sauce 
pan and add i pint of broth from the boiling beef. Cook 
slowly until tender, about J^ h. Melt 3 T butter in the 
pan in which the turnips were browned, add 4 T flour, an»l 
stir until well browned, then add slowly the liquid drained 
from the turnips. Add i t onion juice, i t salt and a dash 
of pepper. Add the turnip cubes, heat thoroughly and 
serve. 

Steamed Fruit Roll 

Sift together 2 c flour, ^ t salt and 3 t baking-powder ; 
rub in i T butter and mix with milk or water, about ^4 c 
into a stiff dough. Toss onto a floured board, pat into a 
sheet about 3/2 inch thick, cover with raspberry jam, straw- 
berry preserves, or any fruit as desired, roll up like a jelly 
roll, pinching the ends tightly to keep in the fruit. Steam 
I h. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Lemon Sauce 

One T cornstarch, ><_ t salt, >< c sugar, i c boiling water, 
y2 T butter and the juice of i lemon. See Nutmeg Sauce, 
Lesson 137, 

Preparing the Meal 

Immediately after lunch prepare the meat for boiling 
and if a fireless cooker is available place it in it; if not, 
slowly cook over the simmer burner. Also make the savory 
rice croquettes for Sunday breakfast and set away until 
needed. About ij4 h before dinner make the fruit roll and 



242 LESSONS IN COOKUIG 

steam over the meat. Wash and pare the potatoes and put 
in part of the steamer, keeping the roll to one side. Wash, 
pare and dice the turnips, brown, then add the stock and 
cook slowly until tender. Add the noodles to the broth, 
allowing 3^ h at least for their cooking. Make the lemon 
sauce for the pudding, finish the turnips, cut some ginger- 
bread and place on the table. When the noodles are done 
serve the soup, then the rest of the dinner. 

If the pudding is not done when ready to serve the soup, 
place very carefully over hot water for longer cooking. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 149 

BAKED FIGS 

SAVORY RICE CROQUETTES DRY TOAST 

COFFEE 

Baked Figs 

See Saturday Morning Baking, page 239. 
Savory Rice Croquettes 

Cook I c tomatoes, slice of onion, sprig parsley, i clove, 
small piece of red pepper, Yz c stock or water, J4 t salt, 
yi c grated cheese, >< T butter, 20 m. Put through a sieve 
and add i c cooked rice, mix well, and then add i egg well 
beaten. Shape into croquettes, tgg and crumb and fry until 
golden brown in deep hot fat. 
Preparing the Meal 

Alake and shape the rice croquettes on Saturday; also 
bake the figs Saturday morning with the rest of the baking. 
While the fat is heating for the croquettes make the toast 
and coffee. Then fry the croquettes, drain on brown paper. 
Serve the baked figs, then the croquettes, toast and coffee. 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 150 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

PLANKED STEAK WITH VEGETABLES 

GRAPEFRUIT^ DATE AND NUT SALAD 

MAPLE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Cream of Celery Soup 

One bunch celery, i pint water, J^ t salt, 2 T butter, 2 T 
flour, 2 c milk. See p. 122. 



MARCH MENUS 243 

Planked Steak 

Rub the plank thoroughly with salt and put in the broiler 
under the gas to heat. When well heated place the steak 
on it, baste with i T butter, dust with pepper, and place 
under the flame, having it turned high at first, Brov/n first 
one side, then the other, lower the flame and cook from 8 
to 12 m, according to the thickness of the steak. Mash 4 
good sized boiled potatoes, add ^ c hot milk, i t salt and 
2 T butter, beating very light. Put them into a pastry 
bag having a star tube at the end. When the steak is done, 
remove from the oven and press the potatoes through the 
tube, making a border of roses all around the plank. 

Drain liquor from i can of peas, heat with %. c water, 
season with i T butter, i t sugar and ^ t salt, and pour 
around the steak inside the potato border. Serve at once. 

Grapefruit, Date and Nut Salad 

Remove the pulp of 2 grapefruit, cut into pieces about i 
inch long, add y^ c dates stoned and cut into small pieces 
and y2 c nut meats. Cover with salad dressing, page 29, 
and serve on a lettuce leaf. 

Maple Bavarian Cream 

Soak 2 T gelatine in 2 T cold water. Boil 3^ c maple 
sugar with ^ c water for 5 m, then slowly pour into the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, stirring constantly. Cook over hot 
water until the mixture coats the spoon. Remove from 
the fire, add the gelatine and stir over ice water until the 
mixture begins to thicken, then fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs and the whip from ^ c cream. Turn into 
a wet mould and chill. 

Preparing the Meal 

Immediately after breakfast make the Bavarian cream, 
then prepare the salad and set in a cool place until needed. 

An h before dinner time wash and pare the potatoes and 
cook in boiling salted water. Also wash the celery and put 
on to cook. Open a can of peas, drain liquor from them 
and place peas in a sauce pan to be heated. Prepare the 
steak for broiling and heat the plank. Finish the celery 
soup, drain and mash the potatoes, keeping hot until needed. 
Broil the steak, and heat the peas. Serve the soup and 



244 i^jiSSONS IN COOKING 

when finished remove the planked steak from the oven, 
make a border of the potato roses, pour the peas around the 
steak and serve the dinner. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 151 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS — WAFERS 

BREAD AND BUTTER PINEAPPLE 

SPICE CAKES COCOA 

Fricasseed Oysters 

Drain and reserve the hquor from i pint of oysters. 
Pick over the oysters carefully, removing any bits of shell, 
etc., that may be found. Heat the Uquor, strain and ad.l 
enough milk to make 2 c of liquid. Melt 4 T butter, add 
5 T f^our and when thoroughly blended add the liquid 
slowly. Cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture thickens, 
then place over hot water, add i t salt, 2 T lemon juice, i 
T chopped parsley and the oysters. Cook until the oysters 
become plump and the gills begin to curl, then add slowly 
I well-beaten egg. Cook a minute or so longer, then serve 
at once on wafers. 

Cocoa 

Three c milk, i c water, 2 T cocoa, 2 T sugar, i t corn- 
starch, ys, t salt, I t vanilla. See p. 13 if necessary. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 20 m before supper prepare the fricasseed oysters. 
While the sauce is cooking make the cocoa, cut the bread 
and butter, place some cakes on a plate, open a can of pine- 
apple and place all on the table. Finish the oysters and 
serve the supper. 



MABCE MENUS 245 

CHAFING DISH SUPPER FOR EIGHT PEOPLE 

Lesson 152 

SALMON HOLLANDAISE IN TIMBALE CASES 

PIMENTO AND OLIVE SALAD EN WAFERS 

WHITE AND BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

LEMON SHERBET WITH CHERRIES AND ANGELICA 

ANGEL CAKE COFFEE 

Color Scheme — Pink and Green. 

Table Arrangement 

The table may be left uncovered and doilies used, or be 
covered with pad and table cloth. The chafing dish, with 
accessories, spoon, flagon and match box, should be ar- 
ranged on a large tray at one end. The supplies to be used 
in cooking should be placed in attractive dishes around 
the tray, having everything there in the way of salt, pepper, 
etc. Knives, forks, spoons and measuring cup should be 
arranged neatly at the side ready for use. The service dish 
for the entire company should be placed in the center, just 
beyond the chafing dish. To the left of the plates should 
stand the platter containing the timbale cases ; at the right 
the platter containing the salad wafers ; fork, two spoons, 
glass and napkin should be at each place. Salt and pepper 
shal'.ers should be placed for every two guests. 

The sandwiches should be on four plates on different 
parts of the table ; the cake should be cut and placed on the 
sideboard ; the angelica cut very fine and the cherries in 
halves, ready to be sprinkled on the sherbet when served. 

The coffee service should be on a large tray on a side 
table or on the sideboard. 

The table decoration should be in pink and green and 
should consist of a low center piece. 

Salmon Hollandaise 

In the blazer of the chafing dish cream y^ c butter, add 
the yolks of 2 eggs, one at a time ; beat well and add slowly 
the juice of J^ lemon, ^4 t salt and a speck of cayenne 
pepper. Then add ^ c boiling water, very slowly, ly^ c 
salmon, flaked, and J^ c French peas. Cook over hot 
water until the mixture thickens like custard. Serve in 
timbale cases. 



246 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Timbale Cases 

Beat 2 eggs slightly, add i c milk. Sift i c flour and }i t 
salt together. Add enough of the egg and milk to make a 
batter than can be beaten smooth and velvety, then add the 
rest of the liquid. Fry with a timbale iron in deep fat. 
See p. 176 for timbale frying. 

Wafers 

Beat I egg until light, add }i t salt, and enough flour to 
make a very stiff dough. Roll out until as thin as paper, 
cut into triangles about i^ inch on each side. Fry in hot 
fat. If rolled thin enough they will curl up, making very 
odd shapes. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with salt. 
Fill with the following mixture. 

Olive, Pimento and Cheese Filling 

Cut the meat from i pint of olives and chop fine. Add 3 
pimentoes, finely shredded, and i package Neufchatel 
cheese. Mix well and fill the wafers. 

Note — Pimentoes should be bought in the small cans. 
After the can is opened if there are any pimetoes unused 
turn them into a bowl and cover with the oil in which they 
were packed, and keep in a cool place. They mould very 
easily. 

Lemon Sherbet 

Soak I T gelatine in >^ c cold water 10 m; add i>< c 
boiling water, and when the gelatine is dissolved add 2 c 
sugar, juice of 6 lemons and 2 c cold water. Mix all well 
together and start to freeze, using i part salt to 2 parts 
crushed ice. When partly frozen but still soft, fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs. Cover and continue freez- 
ing until the mixture is stiff. Repack and set away to ripen 
for at least 2 h. 

Angel Cake 

Beat I c of egg whites until stiff, then gradually add 
134 c sifted sugar. Mix and sift four times 1 c pastry 
flour and 34 t salt, then carefully fold into the egg and 
sugar mixture. Add i t vanilla, and turn into an un- 
buttered angel cake pan. Bake 40 to 45 m in a slow oven. 
After the cake has risen and begins to brown, cover with 



MABCH MENUS 247 

a buttered paper to keep the top from becoming brown. 
When done invert pan until the cake is cool. 

Preparing the Supper 

The timbale cases and salad wafers should be prepared 
in the morning and at the same time so that they may both 
be fried while the fat is hot. The cake also should be 
baked in the morning. The sherbet should be made at least 
2 h before using. Then the sandwiches may be made, 
packed in a bowl and covered with a damp cloth. Then the 
salad mixture made. Prepare the angelica and cherries, 
then arrange the table. 

Measure and prepare the ingredients to be used in the 
salmon hollandaise, and place on the table. In preparing 
the salmon drain off the oil, then remove all of the bones 
and skin from the fish, and separate into small pieces. 
Drain the liquor from a can of peas, turn into a sieve and 
rinse well with cold water. Put the sherbet glasses in a 
cold place. When everything is ready fill the salad wafers 
and place them on the table ; also the timbale cases. Make 
the coffee, put the cream and sugar on the coffee tray, cut 
the cake and place on a side table. Then serve the sand- 
wiches. Put hot water in the water bath and light the 
chafing dish stove. Seat the guests and begin the prepara- 
tion of the hollandaise. 

When the first course has been -finished, remove the 
chafing dish and soiled dishes. Place the coffee tray and 
the cake on the table, serve the sherbet and pour the coffee. 



24S LIJSSOKS IN COOKING 

HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS 

Chafing Dishes 

In selecting a chafing dish be sure that the lamp can be 
removed from the standard without disturbing the cooker. 
This is a great convenience as well as being at times a neces- 
sity, as there may be something cooking in the dish which 
should not be disturbed and the alcohol need replenishing. 

The lamp should be so made that the flame can be easily 
and well regulated, thus increasing or reducing the heat as 
desired. 

The chafing dish consists of the water bath and blazer, 
the latter being the pan in which the cooking is usually 
done. Generally the blazer only is provided with a long 
handle, while the water bath has two short ones. It would 
be much more convenient to have the long handles on both 
pans. This can occasionally be found. 

A flagon with which to fill the lamp, a fork, a spoon and 
a skimmer are quite necessary adjuncts to a chafing dish. 
The whole should be placed on a large tray both for safety 
and cleanliness. 

In using the water bath be careful not to put in too 
much water, as otherwise it will boil over. 

While cooking always have a plate on which to lay the 
soiled utensils, and a second one on which to place the lid 
when it is removed from the chafing dish. 

Carving at Table 

Allow the carver plenty of room and put the roast on a 
platter ample in size, so placed that it need not be moved 
by the carver, or as follows : A rib roast of beef — Ends of 
the ribs at the right ; leg of lamb or ham — small leg bone at 
left ; turkey or chicken — with drum sticks at the right ; rib 
of pork, etc. — ends of the ribs towards the carver. A thin 
rolled rib roast is usually laid flat and sliced towards the 
carver, with the guard on the carving fork up. 

The carving knife and fork should lay, preferably on the 
carving rest, the fork at the left and the knife at the rigllt. 
See that the knife is sharp. 

In carving the fork should be inserted in the best pos- 
sible position to hold the meat securely, then the meat cut 



MABCn MENUS 249 

in thin slices across the grain. This means parallel with ribs 
and at right angles to the leg bone. If the carver wishes 
to make a success of his work he should study the cuts 
of meat carefully, examining the muscles and noting the 
way in which the grain runs, so that he can cut across it in 
carving. 

The slices when cut should be laid at one end of the 
platter ready for serving. 

The meat before being brought to the table should be 
carefully examined to see that there are no strings or 
skewers left in it. 

If possible have the butcher crack the bones in such a 
way that the meat will be easy to carve. For instance, 
in a porterhouse steak, if the back bone is cracked in about 
three places the carver can cut straight through, thus serv- 
ing a bit of the tenderloin with each piece. In case of a rib 
roast if the bone can be broken between each rib it will 
greatly facilitate carving. 

In carving a turkey or chicken, it is usual first to re- 
move the leg and wing furthest away from the carver, 
then the other leg and wing, after which the breast is cut 
in thin slices, first on one side and then on the other. 
In a small family, if only half a turkey is to be served, one 
side may be left untouched. 
Amounts to Serve 

Taking twelve as a unit, the following amounts will be 
adequate for light refreshments : 

One and one-half loaves of bread, counting 24 half slice 
sandwiches to the loaf. 

ys pound of butter well creamed before using. 

3/2 pound coffee to 18 c water will make double service. 

From ^ to I pint cream will be sufficient. 

3 pints of salad should be allowed. 

ly^ bricks or 3 pints bulk ice cream should be allowed. 

y2 pound salted nuts. 

A cake 12 inches square will cut 36 pieces ; 8 inches square 
will cut 16 pieces ; 9 inches in diameter will cut 24 pieces. 



250 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Uses of the Dover Egg Beater 

A large size Dover egg beater will be found a great con- 
venience in the household for use in various ways. Custard 
inclined to curdle can frequently be made smooth by beating 
vigorously a few minutes with the egg beater. Lumpy 
sauces or gravies may also be made smooth by this method. 
Salad dressing is much more delicate and light if beaten 
well with an egg beater before using. Cream may be 
whipped beautifully by placing in a Mason or some other 
kind of deep jar and beating with a Dover beater. 

Tongue in Mince Meat 

Mince pies made from mince meat in which boiled tongue 
and no suet has been used will be found to be entirely free 
from any tallowy taste when served cold. 

Fireless Cooker Substitute 

A good substitute for a fireless cooker will be found in a 
thick earthen casserole. The food to be cooked is placed in 
the casserole, which is then covered and set in a hot oven. 
As soon as the dish and contents are thoroughly hot, the 
fire is either turned out completely, or turned very low, and 
the heat retained by the earthen dish cooks the food. 

Uses for a Wire Frying Basket 

A wire frying basket is of great service in cooking pota- 
toes, vegetables of all kinds, eggs, etc. The articles to be 
cooked are placed in the basket, lowered into hot water, and 
when done are easily removed all at once by lifting the 
basket out of the water. In this way they are also easily 
and perfectly drained. 

An Alarm Clock — Housekeeper's Assistant 

An alarm clock can be made to be an extremely useful 
assistant to the housewife. If she has something in the oven 
which will need attention in the course of lo or 15 minutes, 
and she wishes to do some work in another part of the 
house, the alarm set for the proper time will relieve her of 
all anxiety and call her when needed. This is only one 
illustration of the many uses to which it may be put. 



MARCH MENUS— COST AND FOOD 



SrrpLiES 
6 lbs. Flour 

1 lb. Cornmeal 

2 lbs. Whole Wheat Flour, 
5 lbs. Bread 



Vh lb. Crackers. 
% lb. Ric 



% pkg. Ralston 

Vs pkg- Pettijohn 

% pkg. Oatmeal 

% pkg. Cornflakes 

% pkg. Cream of Wheat. . 

Va lb. Spaghetti 

^ lb. Macaroni 

4 lbs. Sugar 

% lb. Maple Sugar 

% pt. Strawberry Treserv 

1 pt. Molasses 

1/2 lb. Tongue 

1/2 lb. Dried Beef 

2 lbs. Shoulder of Mutton. 

2 lbs. Liver 

1 lb. Mackeral 

1 pr. Sweetbreads 

IV2 lbs. Mutton Chops 

1 lb. Sausage 

IVa lbs. Veal 

2 lbs. Halibut 

3 lbs. Rump Roast 

2 lbs. Porterhouse 

1 pt. Oysters 

3% doz. Eggs 

8 qts. Milk 

2 pts. Cream 

V4 lb. Cheese 

3 lbs. Butter 

1/2 lb. English Walnuts . . . 

1 pk. Potatoes 

% pt. Split Peas 

3 cans Peas 

1 can Tomatoes 

% can Corn 

1 small Cabbage 

8 Onions 

3 Carrots 

4 Turnips 

2 bunches Celery 

1 Squash 

2 bunches Salsify 

1 box Gelatine 

1 lb. Prunes 

1/4 pk. Apples 

Vo lb. Figs 

Vi lb. Dates 

14 lb. Raisins 

3 Lemons 

2 Oranges 

4 Tangerines 

2 Grapefruit 

I can Pears 

1 can Pineapple 

1/32 lb. Cocoa 

% lb. Coffee 

1/16 lb. Tea 



Cost 
$0.18 

.04 

.10 

.2.5 

.01 Va 

.04 

.02 

.01% 

.021/2 

.02 Va 

.02 

.04 

.02 

.24 

.02% 

.15 

.08 

.08 

.15 

..30 

.30 

.15 

.30 

.30 

.25 

.24 

.30 

.42 

.40 

.20 
1.14 

.04 

.40 

.05 

.06 

.20 

.30 

.05 

.30 

.10 

.05 

.03 

.10 

.05 

.05 

.20 

.15 

.10 

.15 

.10 

.10 

.10 

.021/2 

.04 

.07 

.06 

.10 

.25 

.15 

.15 

.02 
.22 

.04 



Total 

0.S40 

1,739 

3,328 

6,025 

200 

816 

354 

426 

852 

730 

354 

800 

400 

7,440 

500 

1,000 

1,332 

400 

555 

2,667 

1,140 

800 

576 

1,992 

1,600 

720 

940 

3,330 

1,970 

230 

3,094 

5,200 

1,820 

514 

10,815 

1,600 

2,247 

1,605 

1,530 

210 

250 

145 

200 

100 

100 

100 

448 

100 

100 

1,600 

440 

600 

362 

300 

108 

170 

340 

200 

400 

200 

72 



VALUE— FOUR PERSONS 

■FOOD UNITS 

Starch 

& Sugar 

8,366 

1,391 

2,663 

4,880 

142 

736 

283 

319 

638 

643 

283 

664 

332 

7,440 

500 

1,000 

1,326 



Protein 

1,1 so 

157 

409 

783 

18 

72 

53 

77 
1.54 

80 

53 
120 

60 



6 

188 

300 

934 

695 

3-00 

252 

596 

304 

203 

374 

1,498 

611 

112 

991 

992 

91 

129 

54 

100 

247 

337 

378 

44 

33 

29 

26 

10 

13 

24 

32 

17 

19 

48 

13 

30 

7 

9 

9 

10 

10 

14 

12 

8 

12 



Fat 

294 

191 

166 

362 

40 

8 

18 

30 

60 

7 

18 

16 



212 

255 

1,733 

445 

500 

324 

1,396 

1,296 

517 

566 

1,832 

1,359 

51 

2.103 

2.704 

1,565 

375 

10,761 

1,328 

''2 

290 

48 

15 

25 

12 

10 

8 

4 

4 

32 

10 



31 



25 
27 
15 
16 
12 
8 
16 
12 
38 



67 



1,504 

164 

10 

* "112 

1,978 

978 

1,104 

151 

192 

104 

164 

82 

83 

72 

384 

73 

81 

1,5.32 

396 

570 

330 

264 

84 

154 

318 

178 

372 

180 

22 



Total for the Week.. $11. 12 88,026 13,487 31,210 43.329 
Food Units per Day — 12,575. Food Units per Day per Person — 3,143. 
Cost of Food per Day — $1.59. Cost per Day per Person — $0,398. 
Of the Total Food Value 15% is Protein, 36% Fat, and 49% is 

Starch and Sugar. 

251 



252 LESSONS IN COOKING 

SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING THE COST OF 
THE MARCH MENUS 

Substitute oleo or other substitutes in place of butter for 
cooking. Use top of milk in place of cream for cereal and 
coffee, and reduce quantity of milk, if expensive, by using 
half water in cooking, or buy skimmed milk. 

In L. 131 omit tongue on toast, frizzled beef with eggs in 
L. 132 and the salad in L. 133. In L. 134 omit eggs in batter, 
and split pea soup in L. 136. In L. 137 omit the tangerines 
and substitute dry toast for cornmeal puffs. In L. 138 use 
y^ lb. cold boiled ham instead of sweetbread souffle, and 
omit the sausage in L. 140. 

In L. 143 omit both the fruit and the cereal. In L. 145 
substitute fish croquettes for Jerusalem fish balls. In L. 
146 use dry toast instead of sponge biscuits. In L. 148 
omit noodle soup and gingerbread. In L. 150 have lemon 
ice instead of maple Bavarian cream, and in L. 151 have 
Welsh rarebit instead of fricasseed oysters. 

ESTIMATED EEDUCTIONS. 

IVa lbs. Butter.. $0.48 less 1 lb. Sausage $0.25 

11/2 lbs. Oleo 30 ...$0.18 Cereal and Fruit 16 

2 pts. Cream 40 Jerusalem Fish Balls, .38 less 

3 qts. Milk 24 Fish Croquettes. .15 ... .23 

Tongue with Sauce 14 Sponge Biscuits 15 

% lb. Dried Beef & 4 Eggs. .27 Noodle Soup 07 

2 Oranges 06 Gingerbread 10 

Eggs in Batter 17 Maple Bavarian Cr'm, .32 less 

Split Pea Soup 07 Lemon loe 07 .25 

Tangerines 10 Frieaseed Oysters ... .33 less 

Cornmeal Puffs 15 Welsh Earebit 10 .23 

Sweetbread Souffle $0.38 less 

1/3 lb. Boiled Ham .10 ... 28 $3.50 

Original total cost $11.12 

Reduction 3.50 



New total cost per week $7.52 

New cost per day $1.07 

New cost per day per person 267 



APRIL MENUS 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

PART VIII 



KITCHEN CONVENIENCES AND APPLIANCES 

Study the arrangement of the kitchen so that every arti- 
cle and piece of furniture will be in the most convenient 
place, and the work done with the least expenditure of time 
and energy. The following suggestions can be applied in 
principle in every kitchen : 

1. The kitchen should he large enough for the work that 
is to be done there, but it should not contain a square inch 
of waste space. The size will vary with different condi- 
tions, but the working space should always be kept as small 
as possible. 

There should be a cross draft of air and a ventilator in 
the ceiling, if possible. 

2. Utilize the zvall space of the kitchen for shelves and 
cupboards, instead of having a pantry with its open shelves, 
extra floor space, etc. Have a cupboard for the cooking 
utensils near the stove, one for supplies and mixing dishes 
near the table ; make them shallow enough so that every- 
thing can be seen at a glance, and have the shelves set far 
enough apart to accommodate the dishes, etc., but near 
enough to avoid waste of space. 

3. Have enough shelf room, if possible, to set utensils of 
different sizes and shapes separately. 

4. Keep all supplies in jars, glass preferably, which 
should then be labeled. 

5. A shelf over or near the stove, for coffee can and 
coffee pot, tea can and tea pot, salt, pepper, flour dredge, 
etc., is a very great convenience. 

6. Raise the kitchen table and the sink to a height six 
inches below the waist line. This will lessen the strain of 
v/ork wonderfully, and put an end to the aching back. 

7. Drop shelves, which can be dropped out of the way 
when not needed, and raised to make extra table space when 
necessary, will help exceedingly in a small kitchen. 

Copyright, 1912, by Home Economics Association. 

253 



254 LESSONS IN COOKING 

8. A thick rug, made of washable or replaceable mate- 
rial, laid where the worker stands in front of the table, will 
be a great comfort. Many thicknesses of newspaper cov- 
ered on both sides with building paper and secured at the 
edges with adhesive tape makes a very good one. 

9. A separate hook for every article — no two things on 
the same hook — will save the disposition. 

10. A ivaste paper basket should stand in an inconspicu- 
ous place. 

11. Instead of a kitchen table drawer filled with every- 
thing, substitute the following: 

a. A set of pockets, each one labeled, hung on the back of 

a door, for string, corks, etc., large ones for paper 
sacks, etc. 

b. A leather strap tacked on the inside of a cupboard door 

to hold carving and kitchen knives and forks. Tack 
at intervals so that each article has its particular 
socket. Leave one for a carborundum knife sharpener. 

c. Two square hooks near the sink, screwed on a line, to 

hold the paring knife. It is so convenient while 
standing at the sink to reach up for the knife rather 
than to search through a drawer filled with every- 
thing. 

12. Hang a pair of scissors on tzuo hooks in a convenient 
place. 

13. A pin cushion, with a linen cover, which can be 
removed and washed, should hang in an accessible place. 

14. A light over the stove will relieve the strain of trying 
to see in the dark, often caused by the necessity of standing 
in one's own light. 

15. A lid rack with graduated spaces for the lids, the 
small ones in the front, with the large ones to the back, 
should be placed near the stove. 

16. A large, light-zv eight tray should be kept in a con- 
venient place, ready for use. One of the best devices is the 
wheel tray, which is a rack on wheels, carying one or two 
large trays. 

17. A hook shelf for cook books, a clock, a pad with 
pencil attached for memoranda, and a roll of tissue or 
toweling paper for wiping out especially greasy or soiled 
dishes or utensils, should be in every kitchen. 



APEIL MENUS 255 

i8. The floor of a kitchen should be made as easy to 
stand on as possible. Linoleum over a wooden floor will 
be found most convenient. Let the linoleum run up on 
the base board, over a concave quarter round, thus elimi- 
nating the corner between the wall and the floor. 

If the linoleum is shellaced or varnished once a year or 
oftener, it will wear much longer and look better. 

19. The kitchen should have a smooth ivall, either painted 
or papered with oilcloth paper, either of which can be easily 
washed ; or else the wall should be freshly calcimined twice 
a year. 

Coating the painted wall with a thin boiled starch solu- 
tion has been recommended as highly effective in removing 
the dirt and grease easily, without injury to the paint. 

20. White oilcloth pasted on the wall over the stove and 
sink will be a great protection, and very easy to keep clean. 
Pasting oil cloth on tables, shelves, etc., will be as effective 
as enameling. A good grade, like "Sanitas," should be 
used. 

21. Cooking utensils should be of the best quality and suf- 
ficient in number. Use drip pans with rounded corners of 
aluininum or high grade enamel. The ordinary tin or sheet 
iron pans made from a folded sheet are almost impossible 
to clean perfectly and at best require much extra time in 
washing. If cooking utensils are properly selected, they 
should be easily cleaned. Do not waste time cleaning old 
rough tin, or chipped enamelware. Buy muffin pans and 
other baking dishes which in combination fit the oven, so 
that it may be used to the best advantage. 



APRIL MENUS 

Monday Lesson 153 

BREAKFAST 

BANANAS AND CREAM 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHOPPED MEAT 

DRY TOAST COFFEE 

Scrambled Eggs 

Beat 4 eggs lightly, add ^ c milk or cream, or water, i t 
salt, dash of pepper, and a few drops of onion juice. Grind 
Yi. c cold cooked meat, and add to the ^^^ mixture. Turn 
into a buttered frying-pan and cook slowly, stirring occa- 
sionally, until thickened, but not hard, turn one half over 
the other like an omelet, and serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

Grind the meat, then prepare the scrambled eggs, and 
while cooking make the toast and coffee. Serve the fruit, 
then the eggs, toast and cofifee. 

Immediately after breakfast start the nut bread and set 
in a warm place to rise. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Monday Lesson 154 

ALMOND STEAK 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES NUT BREAD 

TEA 

Almond Steak 

Trim i lb. round steak and put it with j4 c almonds 
through the meat grinder; mix thoroughly, add ^ t salt, 
dash of pepper, and form into a large steak, either oblong or 
round, i inch thick. Put it at once into a hot greased pan, 
broil quickly, first on one side, then the other, lower the 
flame and cook 6 or 7 m. Spread with i T butter and serve 
at once. 
Hashed Brovi^ned Potatoes 

Two cold boiled potatoes, ^ t salt, dash of pepper, 4 T 
milk or cream. See p 166 if necessary. 
Nut Bread 

To 2 c lukewarm water in which i T butter has been 
melted, add }^ cake compressed yeast dissolved in 5^ c luke- 

256 



APEIL MENUS 257 

warm water, i t salt, i T sugar, i c chopped nuts and about 
7 c flour. Mix well and knead until no longer sticky, then 
return to the mixing bowl, and set in a warm place, 80-90 
Fahr., to rise. When double its bulk, cut down and knead 
again, return to the bowl, and set away to rise a second 
time. Then knead, shape into loaves, and a small pan of 
biscuits; let rise again, and bake about i h in a moderate 
oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 20 m before lunch, grind the meat and nuts and 
prepare the almond steak. Then chop the potatoes and 
place in a hot pan. While cooking, broil the almond steak, 
make the tea, and put the nut biscuits, made in the morning, 
on a plate. Serve the lunch. 

Immediately after lunch make the Jerusalem Pudding for 
dinner. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 155 

VEAL — ITALIAN STYLE 
FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES 
BREAD AND BUTTER JELLY 

JERUSALEM PUDDING 

Veal— Italian Style 

Break y^ package macaroni into small pieces and cook in 
boiling salted water 20 m. Drain, cover with cold water, 
and let stand while cutting i lb. veal steak into small cubes. 
Put I T butter, oil or suet into a frying-pan, and when hot 
add the veal cubes. Brown the meat well, then lower the 
flame, cover and cook slowly for ^ h. While the meat is 
cooking, drain the macaroni, add i c stock or strained toma- 
toes, and simmer gently until the macaroni is thoroughly 
cooked and tender. Mix 2 T cheese with i c bread crumbs, 
add a dash of red pepper and 34 t salt. Add 5^ t salt to 
the macaroni, and dust 3^ t over the veal cubes. When 
ready to serve, put the veal in the center of the platter and 
pour the macaroni around it. Put the crum.b mixture in 
the frying-pan in which the veal was cooked, stir over the 
fire until hot and slightly browned, then place over the top 
of the meat and macaroni, and serve at once. 



258 LESSONS IN COOKING 

French Fried Sweet Potatoes 

Peel 4 sweet potatoes, cut them into slices lengthwise, J4 
inch thick. Have ready a kettle of hot fat, about 300 Fhr., 
put the slices of potato into a frying basket, lower into the 
hot fat, cook slowly until tender and perfectly brown. Drain 
on brown paper, dust with salt, and serve. 
Jerusalem Pudding 

Cover I T gelatine with ^ c cold water and soak 3/2 h. 
Wash 2 T rice, boil rapidly in boiling salted water for 20 
m, or until tender, drain and spread out on a plate to dry. 
Stone and chop fine 12 dates; whip i c cream and when 
stiff add the rice and dates, then ^/^ c powdered sugar. Dis- 
solve the gelatine over hot water, add it with 3^ t vanilla to 
the cream, and stir the whole ; set in a pan of ice water 
until it begins to thicken and the rice does not settle to the 
bottom. Turn into a wet mould and place in a cold place 
until set. Serve very cold. 
Preparing the Meal 

About }i h before dinner time, pare and slice the sweet 
potatoes for frying. Then cook the macaroni and prepare 
the veal for cooking. Have the fat heating while preparing 
the macaroni and veal and allow 20 m for the potatoes to 
cook. While cooking prepare the bread crumbs and cheese, 
finish the veal and macaroni, drain the potatoes, and serve 
the dinner. 

The pudding should be made either after lunch or break- 
fast, as convenient. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 156 

PUFFED RICE — CREAM AND SUGAR 

POTATOES FRIED FROM THE RAW 

HOT CORNBREAD COFFEE 

Potatoes Fried from the Raw 

Wash and pare 4 medium sized potatoes. Slice very 
thinly ; if possible, use a slaw cutter to make the slices just 
like paper. Drain from the water, wipe thoroughly, and 
put into a frying-pan in which 2 T butter have been melted. 
Add I t salt, cover and cook slowly, stirring occasionally, 
until tender and well browned. 



APBIL MENUS 259 

Corn Bread 

Three-fourths c cornmeal, ^ c flour, ^/^ t salt, }i t soda, 
I T sugar, i beaten egg, i c thick sour milk. (See p 134 if 
necessary.) 
Preparing the Meal 

About }i h before breakfast, prepare the potatoes and 
place in the frying-pan. While cooking, make the corn- 
bread and place in the oven. Make the coffee, and heat the 
rice for a few moments in the oven to freshen it. Serve the 
cereal, then the potatoes, cornbread and coffee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 157 

SAUTED BRAINS RICE SOUFFLE 

BREAD AND BUTTER PLUM JELLY 

TEA 

Sauted Brains 

Wash a calf's brain well, removing all connecting tissue 
and all clotted blood. If necessary, soak 3^ h or more in 
cold water. Cut into slices j4 inch thick, dip in crumbs, 
then in egg, then crumbs, and saute in 2 T butter until 
tender throughout and golden brown in color. Brains being 
soft, and lacking any tough tissue, cook very easily and 
quickly. 
Rice SoufHe 

Cook 54 c rice in 2 c boiling salted water for 15 m; 
drain. Add i c milk, 5^ t salt, i T chopped parsley, and 
I T chopped celery, and cook 10 m in a double boiler. 
Remove from the fire, add i T butter, and the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs, then carefully cut and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Turn into a buttered baking dish, set 
in a pan of water, and bake 20 m, or until set. 
Preparing the Meal 

About I h before lunch, wash the brains and soak in cold 
water. Then blanch and cook the rice. Drain the brains, 
slice, egg and crumb, and set aside until ready to saute. 
Finish the preparation of the rice souffle, and while baking 
saute the brains. Cut the bread and butter, and with some 
jelly place on the table. Make the tea and serve the lunch. 



260 LESSONS IN COOKING 

DINNER 
Tuesday Lesson 158 

BEEF ROLL 

NEW POTATOES IN CREAM BEETS ITALIAN FASHION 

RHUBARB PIE 

Beef Roll 

Wipe and trim a slice of round steak, spread with a 
dressing of i c bread crumbs, ^ t each salt and sage, dash 
of pepper, and i onion chopped fine, ^ c milk and i T 
melted butter; roll and tie firmly. Melt 2 T butter, suet, 
bacon or pork fat, in a saucepan, brown the roll well in 
this, then add 2 c hot water, and simmer 2 h. Remove the 
roll, thicken the liquor, using 2 T flour for each c of liquid, 
and serve, either separately or poured around the meat, as 
desired. 

New Potatoes in Cream 

Wash and scrape well 6 small new potatoes. Cover with 
boiling salted water and cook until tender. Drain, add i c 
Medium White Sauce (2 T butter, 2 T flour, i c milk), 
I T chopped parsley, and serve at once. 

Beets — Italian Fashion 

Wash well and cook 6 young fresh beets in boiling water 
until tender; drain, cover with cold water, and with the 
hands push ofif the skins, and cut the beets into thin slices. 
Melt 4 T butter in a frymg-pan, add i small onion chopped 
fine, and stir constantly until softened and yellow, but not 
browned, then add 3 T flour, i/^ t salt, 54 t pepper, and stir 
until well blended. Add }^ t sugar, and 13/2 c milk; let 
cook, stirring constantly until the sauce boils ; simmer a 
few m, add i t vinegar, or i T lemon juice, and pour over 
the beets. Serve at once. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Peel and cut into inch pieces sufficient rhubarb to fill 3 c, 
pour boiling water over it and let stand 10 m. Drain, fill a 
pie plate lined with paste (p 130), sprinkle thickly with i c 
sugar and 2 T flour, dot with bits of butter, using 2 T, cover 
with a crust, and bake until the crust is brown and flaky and 
the rhubarb cooked. 



APBIL MENUS 261 

Preparing the Meal 

About 2^ h before dinner, prepare the Beef Roll. While 
cooking, make the Rhubarb Pie. Then wash and cook the 
beets, allowing at least 40 m for their cookery, wash and 
scrape the new potatoes, and cook about 30 m. Make the 
sauce for the beets, then for the potatoes, and complete their 
preparation. Remove the meat from the liquor, thicken the 
latter, using 2 T flour for i c liquid, and serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 159 

PETTI JOHN — CREAM AND SUGAR 

MILK TOAST — GERMAN STYLE 

COFFEE DOUGHNUTS 

Pettijohn 

One c pettijohn, 2 c boiling water, }^ t salt. 
Milk Toast— German Style 

To I pint scalded milk add i T butter, i T sugar, J^ t 
salt, I t cinnamon, and }i t nutmeg. Pour over 6 slices of 
rusk, preferably; if not available, 6 well toasted slices of 
bread. Serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal ; while the milk is heating for the toast, 
make the cofTee and toast, put some doughnuts on the table, 
then add the seasoning to the milk. Serve the cereal, then 
the milk toast, coffee and doughnuts, which have been made 
previously. Pour the hot milk over the toast just before 
serving. 

Make the Chocolate Hermits immediately after breakfast, 
leaving the dough to chill until time to prepare the lunch. 
Bake with the meat pies. Also make the Pineapple Snow in 
the morning for dinner. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 160 

INDIVIDUAL MEAT PIES 
CHOCOLATE HERMITS TEA 

Individual Meat Pies 

Make a biscuit dough, i c flour, 2 t baking powder, ^4 t 
salt, y2 T shortening, ^ c milk or water. 

Cut any of the Beef Roll left from the preceding evening 
into I inch cubes. If there is not enough left, i lb. beef 



262 LESSONS IN COOKING 

stew may be used, all fat and gristle being removed from 
the pieces, however. Use equal quantities of meat and 
gravy, seasoning with ^ c currants, yi t each cloves and 
cinnamon for each 2 c of meat. Arrange in individual pans, 
cover the top with a round of dough, about 4 inches in 
diameter, and bake about 20 m in a hot oven. Serve at 
once. If raw meat is used, it must be cooked as a stew 
first, because the time allowed for baking is not sufficient 
to cook raw meat. 
Chocolate Hermits 

Cream together ^ c butter and 3^ c sugar, add the yolk 
of I eg{^, and beat well. Cook 2 T chocolate, i T sugar, and 

1 T boiling water, i m or so, then add to the butter mix- 
ture. Add I c flour, mixed and sifted with i t baking 
powder, then yi c nut meats and 5^ c raisins, scalded and 
seeded. Cut and fold in the stiffly beaten white of the egg, 
and when well mixed place the dough in a cold place. When 
thoroughly chilled, roll out very thin, cut into shape, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before lunch, prepare the meat for the pies, 
then make the dough and put on the pies. Roll out the 
Hermit dough, made in the morning, cut, and bake at the 
same time as the meat pies. Make the tea and serve the 
lunch. 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 161 

BLANQUETTES OF CALVES' HEARTS 

BOILED RICE GREEN PEAS 

KIDNEY BEAN SALAD 

PINEAPPLE SNOW 

Blanquettes of Calves' Hearts 

Wash 2 calves' hearts thoroughly in cold water and cut 
into I inch cubes. Put ihem into a saucepan, cover with i 
qt boiling water, boil up, skim, then simmer gently for 2 h. 
When tender, mix together 3 T butter and 3 T flour, add 

2 c of the liquor in which the hearts were cooked, stir until 
boiling, add i t salt and a dash of pepper. Beat i egg 
slightly, pour the gravy slowly onto it, mixing well, add 
the hearts, and serve at once. 



APBIL MENUS 263 

Boiled Rice 

Half c rice, i pt boiling water, i t salt, boil rapidly until 
tender. 
Green Peas 

Drain the liquor from i can peas, heat with ^ c water, 
add I T butter, 3^ t salt, i t sugar, dash of pepper, and 
serve at once. 
Kidney Bean Salad 

Drain the liquor from i can kidney beans, add 2 hard 
boiled eggs, sliced, ^ c diced celery, cover with salad dress- 
ing (^ t mustard, yi t salt, lYz T sugar, y% c vinegar, 
yolks of 3 eggs ; see p 29), and serve cold on lettuce leaves. 
Pineapple Snow 

Scald 2 c milk. Mix 4 T cornstarch, 4 T sugar, and 5^ t 
salt well together, mix to a paste with % c cold milk, and 
add to the hot milk. Cook 15 or 20 m; add several spoon- 
fuls, a little at a time, to the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Return 
to the thickened milk and cook several m longer. Remove 
from the fire, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs and 
y2 c grated pineapple. Pour into wet moulds, and, when set, 
serve very cold. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 254 h before dinner time, prepare the hearts and 
start to cooking. Make the salad, arrange on lettuce leaves 
and set in a cool place until needed. 

One h before dinner, blanch and cook the rice, and 10 m 
before serving, open and drain a can of peas, heat and 
season. Make the gravy for the hearts, and serve the 
dinner. 

The pudding has been made in the morning, after break- 
fast. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 162 

WHEAT BERRIES WITH BAKED APPLES — CREAM AND SUGAR 

FRENCH HASH DRY TOAST 

COFFEE 

Wheat Berries 

Heat to make thoroughly crisp, then serve with apples 
previously cooked, or with other stewed fruit. 



264 LESSONS IN COOKING 

French Hash 

Chop finely any pieces of heart left from the preceding 
dinner. Reheat in the gravy. Toast 4 pieces of bread and 
carefully poach 4 eggs. On top of the toast pile the chopped 
hearts, and on top of this place a poached egg. Serve at 
once. If the heart is not on hand, it will have to be cooked 
previously, according to directions in Lesson 161. 
Preparing the Meal 

Chop the heart and mix with the gravy. While heating 
make the coffee, heat the cereal, and toast the bread. Just 
before serving the cereal, start the eggs to poaching, having 
the flame turned very low. Finish the French Hash, and 
serve at once with the toast and coffee. 

After breakfast, cook the lentils and make the brown 
bread for lunch and the turnip jelly for dinner. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 163 

LENTIL SOUFFLE 

BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER TEA 

POOR man's TARTLETS 

Lentil Souffle 

Wash 3^ pt lentils, cover with cold water, and soak over 
night. In the morning drain, cover with boiling water and 
cook slowly I h. Drain, press through a colander, add % c 
milk, I t salt, yi t pepper, i T butter, and the yolks of 2 
eggs. Beat well, then cut and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Turn into a buttered baking dish, set in 
a pan of water, and bake until set, about 20-30 m. 
Brown Bread 

Mix well and sift i c each, cornmeal, rye, and graham 
flour, i^ t soda, and 2 t baking powder. Add )^ c brown 
sugar, ^ c molasses and 2^ c sour milk. Steam 3 h, or 
i>^ h and bake i h in the oven. 
Poor Man's Tartlets ' 

Beat the white of i egg until frothy, then add 2 T pow- 
dered sugar, and beat until fine and white. Spread each 
one of 12 square crackers (Uneeda Biscuit are excellent to 
use) with 2 t jelly. Over the jelly spread the meringue. 
Dust the tops with 2 T powdered sugar, and brown in a 
slow oven. 



APRIL MENUS 265 

Preparing the Meal 

Half h before lunch, make the Lentil Souffle and place 
in the oven. Then make and bake the Tartlets. Cut tlie 
brown bread, make the tea, and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 164 

BAKED LOIN OF MUTTON 

BROWNED POTATOES STEWED TOMATOES 

TURNIPS IN JELLY 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Baked Loin of Mutton 

Wipe the loin, place in a baking-pan, rub over with butter, 
dredge with flour, and put in the oven. The heat should be 
intense at first, so as to sear the surface of the meat, then 
lowered and the meat baked slowly for lYz h. The loin is 
a long piece of solid meat, 2 or 3 inches in diameter and 
sometimes 12 inches long. It is the most tender part of the 
animal. 
Brovi^ned Potatoes 

About I h before the meat is done, place 8 medium sized 
potatoes, washed and pared, in the pan with the meat, and 
bake until tender. If necessary, add a little hot water, ^ c, 
to the pan in which the meat is cooking. 
Stewed Tomatoes 

One can tomatoes, i t salt, 2 T sugar, dash of pepper, 
2 T flour, 2 T butter. (See p 44, if desired.) 
Turnips in Jelly 

Cover 2 T gelatine with 3^2 c cold water and soak J/2 h 
or longer. Wash, pare and cut 4 turnips into tiny dice, % 
inch on the side ; cover with boiling salted water, and cook 
until transparent. To the soaked gelatine add the juice of 
2 lemons, i t salt, i T vinegar, i T catsup, and 2 c boiling 
water. Strain into a bowl, set in a cold place, and when cool 
stir until it begins to thicken, then add the turnip. Mix well 
and set aside to harden. If desired, at this point it may be 
moulded in individual moulds, and when set served on a 
lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise Dressing. 
Apple Dumplings 

Wash, pare and core 6 small apples. Make a biscuit dough 



266 LESSONS IN COOKING 

of 2 c flour, 4 t baking powder, ^ t salt, i T shortening, 
and ^ c milk or water, toss out onto a floured board and 
pat out to about ^ inch in thickness. Cut into 4 inch 
rounds, place cored apple in the center of each, fill the core 
cavity with i T sugar, and ^ t cinnamon, and press the 
dough firmly around the apples, completely covering them. 

Place in a baking-pan about i inch apart, sprinkle with i c 
sugar, add 2 T butter in dots over the top, and ^ c hot 
water. Bake 20 m in a cjuick oven, or until the crust is 
brown and the apples, when pierced, are tender. Serve with 
cream and sugar, or milk to which sugar and nutmeg have 
been added — ^ c sugar and ^ t nutmeg to each 2 c milk. 
Preparing the Meal 

One and one-half h before dinner, prepare the loin and 
place in the oven. Now wash and pare the potatoes and put 
in the pan with the meat, allowing i h for baking. Wash, 
pare, and core the apples, then make the dough for the 
dumplings, and prepare for the oven, allowing 20 to 30 m 
for their baking. Now open a can of tomatoes, add the 
seasoning and stew about 20 m. Arrange the turnip jelly 
made in the morning on salad plates ready for serving. Pre- 
pare the milk to be served with the apple dumplings. 

When the meat and potatoes are done, serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 165 

FARINA — CREAM AND SUGAR 

MUTTON RAMIKINS COFFEE CAKE 

COFFEE 

Farina 

Half c Farina, 23^2 c boiling water, i t salt. Reserve i c 
of the cooked porridge for the pudding for dinner. 
Mutton Ramikins 

Chop finely enough mutton left from the preceding eve- 
ning to fill 2 c. Make i c brown gravy (2 T butter, 2 T 
flour, browned, i c liquid), add i t chopped mint, simmer a 
minute, and add the chopped meat and the yolk of egg, 
beaten well. Then cut and fold in the white, beaten stiff, 
turn into buttered ramikins and bake, set in a pan of cold 
water. Heat thoroughly, pour over toast, and serve. 



APBIL MENUS 267 

Coffee Cake 

One c scalded milk, y^ c butter, ^ c sugar, 3^ t salt, 
y3 cake yeast, yi c lukewarm water, i egg, flour, ^ c 
raisins ; spread with 3 T melted butter, y^ c sugar, i t cin- 
namon; see p 55. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal, then make the gravy, and while cooking 
chop the meat and make the Ramikins. While baking, 
reheat the coffee cake made previously and then make the 
coffee. Serve the cereal, then the meat and coffee. 

After breakfast, make the Chocolate Farina Pudding for 
dinner. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 166 

BEEFSTEAK WITH ONIONS 

POTATOES WARMED IN MILK BREAD AND BUTTER 

TEA 

Beefsteak with Onions 

Slice 4 onions thinly and separate into the natural rings; 
cover with boiling water, add i t salt and cook slowly for 
20 m ; drain. Throw them into a hot saucepan and when 
they have lost a portion of the water add i T butter, stir 
until slightly browned, then set aside until the steak is 
broiled. 

Pound well i slice of top of round, then broil, p 14. 
When the steak is done, season with salt and pepper, add 

1 T butter, and place the onions over the top. Serve at 
once. 

Potatoes Warmed in Milk 

Cut cold cooked potatoes left from the preceding evening 
into slices or cubes, as desired, place in frying-pan with 

2 T butter and J^ c milk; heat thoroughly, and serve at 
once. 

Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before lunch, slice the onions and put on to 
cook. Wipe and trim the steak and slice the potatoes. 
Drain the onions, brown in butter, then prepare the potatoes. 
While they are heating, broil the steak. Make the tea and 
serve the lunch. 



268 LESSONS IN COOKING 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 167 

HALIBUT A LA POULETTE 

MACARONI WITH BROWN SAUCE PEAS IN TIMBALES 

CHOCOLATE FARINA CUSTARD 

Halibut a la Poulette 

Clean i^ pounds halibut and cut into 8 strips. Add ys t 
pepper, 2 t lemon juice, few drops onion juice, and }i t 
salt to ^ c melted butter, and place over hot water to keep 
melted. Dip each strip in the butter, roll and fasten with a 
skewer. Put into a shallow pan, dredge with flour, and 
bake 12 m in a hot oven. Serve at once. 
Macaroni with Brown Sauce 

Break J/2 pkg macaroni into inch lengths, cover with boil- 
ing salted water, and cook 20 m. Drain. Melt 2 T butter, 
add 2 T flour, and when well browned add i c stock or hot 
water, gradually, stirring all the time, i t salt, i T grated 
onion, and, if desired, i T tomato catsup, and the macaroni. 
Cook over hot water for 20 m and serve. 
Swedish Timbales 

Three-quarters c flour, 1/2 t salt, i t sugar, 5^ c milk, 
I tgg, I T olive oil or butter; see p. 176. 
Peas 

Drain liquor from i can of peas, heat with ^4 c water, 
season with i T butter, i t sugar, ^ t salt. Serve in Tim- 
bale cases. 
Chocolate Farina Custard 

Heat I pt milk in a double boiler ; when hot, sprinkle in 
4 t Farina. Cook slowly at least 15 m. Add 2 oz grated 
chocolate to the yolks of 3 eggs beaten with 4 T sugar, and 
then add slowly the hot milk ; return to the fire, cook a few 
m, then cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. 
Cook 2 or 3 m longer to cook the egg, add i t vanilla, pour 
into wet moulds, and set away to cool. 

Note. — In this case, i c of Farina left from breakfast may 
be used. Mix smoothly with i pt of milk, cook about 10 m, 
then proceed as above. 
Preparing the Meal 

About ^4 li before dinner, put the macaroni on to cook. 



APEIL MENUS 269 

Then make the Swedish Timbales, having the fat heating 
while mixing the batter. Fry the timbales and finish the 
preparation of the macaroni. Now prepare the fish, and 
while baking, open and drain a can of peas, heat and season. 
Serve the dinner as soon as the fish is done. The pudding 
has been made in the morning and is now ready to serve 
cold. 

After dinner, make the dough for the Hot Cross Buns, 
and set in a warm place to rise. 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 168 

STEWED PRUNES 

BROILED BACON ON TOMATO TOAST 

CREAM MUFFINS COFFEE 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash well and soak over night ^ pound prunes ; in the 
morning, cook until tender in the water in which they were 
soaked, adding ^ c sugar, if necessary; i T lemon juice 
added at the last gives a pleasant flavor for a change. 
Broiled Bacon 

Put very thin slices of Breakfast Bacon into a cold frying- 
pan, and heat slowly, turning often ; when golden brown, 
place on rounds of Tomato Toast. 
Tomato Toast 

Melt 3 T butter in a saucepan, add ^ c bread crumbs, i T 
sugar, I t salt, dash of pepper, and i T grated onion. Brown 
and add i c stewed tomatoes. Heat thoroughly, and place 
on squares of toast. 
Cream Muffins 

Mix and sift 2 c flour, 3/2 t salt and 3 t baking powder. 
Beat the yolks of 2 eggs well, add }i c cream and add to the 
flour. If not thin enough to make a drop batter — that is, a 
batter that will drop from the spoon — add a little more 
cream. Cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs, 
pour into muffin pans and bake 20-25 m in a hot oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

A'lake the muflins ; while baking, prepare the tomato mix- 
ture, broil the bacon, make the toast and coffee. Place the 
prunes cooked the preceding day on the table. When ready 



270 LESSONS IN COOKING 

to serve, spread the tomato mixture on the top of each of 
4 squares of toast, place the bacon on this, and serve at once 
with the muffins and coffee. 

SATURDAY MORNING BAKING 

Raisin Brown Bread 

One c each, rye meal, granulated cornmeal, graham flour, 
34 t soda, i^ t salt, ^4 c molasses, i^ c milk or water, i c 
chopped raisins, p 31. 
Hot Cross Buns 

Scald I c milk, add to it 2 T butter, % c sugar, 3^ t salt; 
when lukewarm, add ^ yeast cake dissolved in ^ c luke- 
warm water, ^4 t cinnamon, i egg well beaten, and 3 c flour. 
When thoroughly mixed, add ^4 c raisins, stoned and quar- 
tered, cover, set in a warm place, and let rise over night. 
In the morning, shape in forms of large biscuit, place in pan 
I inch apart, let rise, and when double in bulk bake 20 m. 
Before baking, press a cross shape into the top of each, or 
when baked and cooled, make a cross of frosting on top of 
each. 
Pfeffer Nuesse 

Mix and sift together i c sugar, 2 c flour, ^ T cinnamon, 
34 T cloves, }i T mace, ^4 T nutmeg, i t baking powder; 
add the grated rind of ^ lemon, % c finely chopped citron, 
and mix to a dough with 3 eggs. With buttered hands, 
shape into small balls the size of a hickory nut. Place an 
inch apart on waxed or buttered paper and bake to a delicate 
brown in a hot oven. This recipe will make 3 dozen cakes. 

Method of Work 

Immediately after breakfast, make the Raisin Brown 
Bread, and while steaming, work down the dough for the 
Hot Cross Buns, shape and set to rise. Now make and 
bake the Pfeffer Nuesse. By this time the buns are risen 
and may be baked. Place the Brown Bread in the oven the 
last half hour to dry off and prevent any sogginess. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 169 

SCALLOPED FISH AND MACARONI 
RAISIN BROWN BREAD TEA 



APRIL MENUS 271 

Scalloped Fish and Macaroni 

Make 3^ c Medium White Sauce (i T butter, i T flour, 
5^ c milk). Flake the fish left from the preceding evening. 
In a buttered baking dish place a layer of the macaroni, also 
left from dinner the night before, over this a layer of flaked 
fish, then a layer of v^^hite sauce. Proceed in this manner 
until the ingredients are used, cover the top with buttered 
crumbs, and bake 20 m in a moderate oven. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 25 m before lunch time, prepare and bake the scal- 
loped fish and macaroni. Cut the brown bread made in the 
morning, make the tea and serve the lunch. 

After lunch, cook the tongue to be used cold for supper 
the following evening. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 170 

KIBBEE 
RICED POTATOES SPRING CARROTS 

BAKEWELL PUDDING 

Kibbee 

Chop I pound lean round steak fine, add ^ c chopped 
English walnuts, pecans, almonds, etc., as desired, 3^ t salt, 
and a dash of pepper. Mix and form into balls about 2 
inches in diameter. Stand in a baking-pan and pour over 
them I c canned tomatoes. Bake in a moderate oven 30 m, 
basting frequently. When ready to serve, dish the balls, add 
to the tomato ^ T butter and yi T flour, rubbed to a paste ; 
when boiling, add ^ t salt, and pour the sauce around the 
balls. 

Riced Potatoes 

Pass 8 boiled potatoes through a vegetable ricer, heap 
lightly in a hot vegetable dish, sprinkle with salt, and serve 
at once. Reserve 2 c for future use. 

Boiled Carrots 

Wash and scrape 6 carrots thoroughly, cut into dice and 
cook ^ h, or until tender, in boiling salted water. Drain, 
add 2 T butter, 1/ t salt, dash of pepper; toss well together, 
and serve at once. 



272 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Bakewell Pudding 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with ^ c chopped 
dates and figs, scalded and dried, sprinkle i c bread crumbs 
over the top of this. Beat 2 eggs well, add 2 T sugar, i c 
milk, }i c chopped nuts, and pour over the crumbs. Bake in 
a moderate oven i h. 

Preparing the Meal 

An h before dinner, prepare the pudding and place in the 
oven. While baking, wash and scrape the carrots and pota- 
toes, dice the carrots, and cook both in boiling salted water. 
Now prepare the Kibbee and place in the oven. Drain and 
rice the potatoes, turning into a hot vegetable dish, drain and 
season the carrots, remove the balls from the liquid, thicken 
the tomatoes, pour around the meat balls, and serve the din- 
ner. Leave the pudding in the oven, with the gas turned ofif, 
however, until ready to serve. 

After dinner, mix and shape the potato croquettes for fry- 
ing the next morning. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 171 

ICED GRAPE FRUIT 

POTATO CROQUETTES HOT CROSS BUNS 

COFFEE 

Iced Grapefruit 

Remove the tough membrane and seeds from halves of 
chilled grape fruit, add 2 T powdered sugar and 2 T shaved 
ice to each. Serve at once. See p. 58 for directions. 
Potato Croquettes 

To 2 c riced potatoes add 2 T melted butter, 3^ t salt, 
I beaten egg, ]4> t pepper, i t grated onion and i T chopped 
parsley. Shape as desired, egg and crumb, and fry in deep 
fat to a golden brown. Serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

Heat the fat for the croquettes while preparing the iced 
grape fruit. Make the coffee, egg and crumb the cro- 
quettes, mixed and shaped the preceding evening, and fry 
until golden brown in color. Serve the grape fruit, then 
the croquettes, Hot Cross Buns and coffee. If desired, the 
buns may be reheated and served warm for breakfast. 



AFBIL MENUS 273 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 172 

CROWN OF PORK 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED SPRING ONIONS 

EGG AND CRESS SALAD 

GERMAN PUFFS — SABYON SAUCE 

Crown of Pork 

Obtain pieces containing 6 ribs from each side of a rack 
of pork, having two pieces of the same length and height; 
have the backbone removed and cut between the ribs ; trim 
each rib above the eye as for French lamb chops ; turn the 
rib bones outside and the eyes of the chops inside and sew 
the pieces together into a circle. 

Mix I c sausage meat with i c stale bread crumbs, soft- 
ened in cold water and wrung dry ; add i egg, beaten 
slightly. Put the crown in a baking-pan, with the sausage 
mixture in the open space inside the crown, cover the bones 
with buttered paper to keep from burning, dredge with salt, 
pepper and flour, and bake in a slow oven between 2 and 3 
h, basting every 10 m with the drippings, to which /4 to ^2 
c hot water is added. 

Saute to a delicate brown, in 2 T butter, 2 c small peeled 
spring onions ; add 3 c stock or hot water, and cook until 
tender, about i h. Let the liquid boil away at the last. 

Carefully remove the crown to a serving dish, place the 
onions in the center above the sausage filling, and serve at 
once. 

If the onions cannot be obtained, use the mashed potatoes 
in place of them. 
Mashed Potatoes 

Four medium sized potatoes, i^ T butter, % t salt, J/2 c 
milk. 
Egg and Cress Salad 

Cut the whites of 4 hard cooked eggs into eighths length- 
wise, and arrange them on a bed of cress to simulate the 
petals of a flower. Place a bit of Mayonnaise in the center 
of the petals. Press the yolks through a sieve and arrange 
over the salad. Serve very cold. 
German Puffs 

Cream ^ c butter, add >2 c sugar, and cream lightly. 



274 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Add the yolks of 2 eggs and beat well. Mix and sift i c 
flour and i^ t baking powder, and add alternately with 
y2 c milk. Beat vigorously, then cut and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of 2 eggs. Pour into hot buttered muffin 
pans and bake about 20 m. Serve with Sabyon Sauce. 

Sabyon Sauce 

In the upper part of a double boiler beat 2 eggs well, add 
^ c sugar, and beat thoroughly. Set over hot water and 
beat while 3^ c grape juice is gradually stirred in. When 
the sauce has thickened slightly, add i t lemon juice, and 
remove at once from the fire. Be careful that the water in 
the lower part of the double boiler does not boil, otherwise 
it will be difficult to keep the egg from curdling. 

Preparing the Meal 

Three h before dinner, prepare the crown of pork and 
place in the oven. Then cook 4 eggs for the salad. Wash 
and pare both the potatoes and onions and place in cold 
water until time to cook. 

One and one-quarter h before dinner, saute the onions, 
then cover them with hot liquid and cook slowly. Also put 
the potatoes on to cook. Now prepare the salad and set 
in a cool place until needed. Then make the German Puffs 
and while baking, the Sabyon Sauce. Drain and mash the 
potatoes, remove the roast to a hot serving dish, fill the 
center with the onions, make gravy if desired, and serve the 
dinner. 

Remove the Puffs from the oven when done. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 173 

COLD SLICED TONGUE 

PINEAPPLE AND BANANA SALAD WAFERS 

PFEFFER NUESSE COCOA 

Sliced Tongue 

To slice a cold boiled tongue, begin at the thick end and 
cut directly across the grain. 

Pineapple, Banana, and Nut Salad 

Cut 2 bananas into slices, add ^ c pineapple cubes and 
^ c chopped nuts. Toss together with 2 forks, cover with 



APEIL MENUS 275 

salad dressing (j^ t mustard, ^4 t salt, 13^ t sugar, }i c 
vinegar, yolks of 3 eggs, p 29), place on lettuce leaves and 
serve at once. 
Cocoa 

Three c milk, i c water, 2 T cocoa, 2 T sugar, i t corn- 
starch, % t salt, I t vanilla. (See p 13, if necessary.) 
Preparing the Meal 

About 15 m before supper time, make the cocoa; while 
heating, make the salad, slice the tongue, and place both 
with a plate of Pfeffer Nuesse on the table. When the 
cocoa is done, serve the meal. 



270 LESSONS IN COOKING 

EASTER LUNCHEON 

Lesson 174 

mint cocktail 

chicken croquettes with mushroom sauce finger rolls 

bird's-nest salad 

ANGEL PARFAIT IN ROLLED VANILLA WAFERS 
WHITE AND SUNSHINE CAKE WHITE AND YELLOW CANDY EGGS 

Color Scheme — Yellow and White. 

Table Decoration 

Daffodills or jonquils may be used for the flowers. A 
pretty effect is secured by having yellow crepe paper under 
a lace or Mexican table cover or doilies. Tiny chickens can 
be used eft'ectively either as a center piece or for favors. 
One can be put at each place holding in its nib a dainty place 
card in the shape of an tgg painted on yellow and white. 
Mint Cocktail 

Cut I can pineapple into small cubes. Remove the pulp 
of 3 oranges from the dividing membrane and cut into 
small pieces. Break 34 pound after dinner mints into tiny 
pieces and mix with the fruit an hour before lunch, setting 
away in a cold place ; serve in sherbet glasses, covered with 
crushed ice and powdered sugar. 
Chicken Croquettes 

To i^ c thick white sauce (6 T flour, 4 T butter, 1^/2 c 
liquid), add 3 c chopped cold cooked chicken, ^ t salt, Yz t 
celery salt, speck cayenne pepper, 2 t lemon juice, and if 
desired a few drops onion juice. Mix well, set in the re- 
frigerator until very cold, then mould with the aid of a 
chicken croquette mould into tiny chickens. Egg and crumb 
and fry in hot fat. 
Mushroom Sauce 

Make 2 c medium white sauce (4 T flour, 4 T butter, 2 
c liquid), using part cream and part chicken stock. To this 
add two cans of the button mushrooms. Season well and 
just before serving add i T minced parsley, if desired. 
Finger Rolls 

]\Iix and sift twice i qt. flour, 2 T sugar, i t salt, and 3 T 
baking-powder. Cut in ^ c shortening, lard, snowdrift, 



APBIL MENUS 277 

etc.; mix to a soft dough using about i^ c equal parts 
milk and water, toss onto a floured board. With the back 
of the spoon pat it out to about one inch in thickness, tak- 
ing care that there is no flour on the top of the dough. 
Soften 4 T butter, cut into small pieces, spread on the top 
and press into the dough. Fold one half over the other 
and pat out to about >4 inch in thickness. Cut into strips 
3 inches long and ^ inch wide, and bake in a hot oven. 

Bird's-nest Salad 

Color Neufchatel or Cottage Cheese a delicate green 
with green coloring paste. Mould into the shape and size 
of robins' eggs and lay in a nest of shredded lettuce, three 
to a serving. Sprinkle with coarse black pepper, and serve 
with French dressing. 

Angel Parfait 

Boil together i c sugar, and ^ c water until it threads. 
Beat the whites of 3 eggs until stiff and dry, adding 1/2 t 
cream of tartar when the eggs are foamy. Pour the syrup 
slowly onto the whites of the eggs and continue beating until 
cold. Add I T vanilla, and i pt. heavy cream, whipped 
stiff. Put into moulds and let stand for 3 h, packed in equal 
portions salt and chopped ice. 

For this Easter Luncheon color half of the Parfait with 
either the yolk of an egg or with the yellow coloring matter. 
Put into the moulds in layers or with a marbled eft'ect. 

A very attractive way of serving the dessert for this 
luncheon would be as follows: Make Vanilla Wafers, roll 
as cornucopias, fill with the Angel Parfait and lay on a 
dessert plate with a daffodil beside it. 

Rolled Vanilla V/afers 

Cream 54 c butter, add gradually ^/^ c powdered sugar, 
and cream in 34 c milk, adding it a few drops at a time. 
The mixture should be smooth and creamy. If it seems to 
curdle, too much milk has been added at a time. By beating 
well it will become smooth again. Then add ]4 c bread flour 
and 3^ t vanilla. Spread the mixture very thinly on an 
inverted buttered dripping pan, smoothing it with a broad 
bladed knife or spatula. Mark in 3 inch squares and bake 
in a slow oven until delicately browned. When done draw 



278 LESSONS IN COOKING 

the pan to the front of the oven, and with a sharp pointed 
knife run along the crease, separating each wafer. With 
the point of the knife raise the edge of each wafer and roll 
either in cornucopias, or cylinders, cornerwise or straight 
across. This must be done while the wafers are very hot, 
otherwise they will be too brittle. If they become brittle 
while handling put back in the oven and reheat. Have the 
plate and knife ready at hand so that not a moment will 
be lost after the process of rolling has begun. It may seem 
a little difficult at first to handle the wafers while they are 
so hot, but a little practice will make it very easy. 

Sunshine Cake 

Beat the whites of lo eggs until stiff and dry, add 1J/2 c 
powdered sugar gradually, and continue beating ; then add 
the yolks of 6 eggs beaten until thick and lemon colored, and 
I t lemon extract. Cut, and fold in i c flour mixed and 
sifted with i t cream of tartar. Bake 50 m in a moderate 
oven in an angel-cake pan. 

White Cake 

One half c butter, i^ c sugar, ^ c water, 3 c flour, 6 t 
baking-powder, whites 6 eggs, 2 t vanilla. See p. 33, "Cake 
for Sunday Evening." 

Preparing the Luncheon 

The day before the luncheon cook the chicken and make 
the cakes. The chicken can be taken from the skin and 
bones and the croquette mixture prepared the night before 
or early enough in the morning so that it will be ice cold 
before moulding. 

Four h before serving make the Angel Parfait and pack 
in salt and ice. Mould the croquettes and return to the ice 
box. Prepare the lettuce and lay on the ice ; color the 
cheese, mould into eggs, and put in a cool place. Arrange the 
table, and set out the dishes. Make the Mmt Cocktail and 
set on the ice. Put the fat for frying the croquettes on to 
heat, then make the Butter Rolls and set in a cool place. 

Make the ]\Iushroom ..Sauce and keep hot until needed ; 
while the Butter Rolls are baking fry the croquettes, and 
set in the warming oven. Cut the cake, put the salad on 
the plates and make the French Dressing. Then make the 



APEIL MENUS 279 

coffee and fill the water glasses. Put the cocktail in the 
sherbet glasses, adding the sugar and shaved ice just be- 
fore serving. Serve at once. 

In serving the luncheon have the plates where they will 
be kept warm. Lay the chicken croquette on the plate with 
a spoonful of mushroom sauce, and one or two butter rolls. 
Have the rest of the butter rolls passed. 

Arrange the wafers on two plates preparatory to passing 
with the salad. 

Have the dessert plates for the Parfait in a cold place. 

The yellow and white candies can be made of fondant 
if desired, and either molded in the forms of eggs or melted 
and made into patties. 



280 LESSONS IN COOKING 

HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS 
Preparing Granges 

To remove the pulp of the orange from the dividing seg- 
ment proceed as follows. With a parinq- knife cut the out- 
side skin off, being careful to take with it the fine membrane 
covering the pulp. Insert the knife between the pulp and 
the dividing segment of one section. Work carefully along- 
separating pulp from the skin, then slip the knife up on the 
other side, removing the entire section of pulp. Proceed in 
this way with each one. While working hold the orange 
over a bowl to catch the juice. 

Oranges prepared in this way are much nicer for salads, 
desserts, etc., than when the tough membrane is left on 
them. 

Immersing oranges in hot water for a few minutes be- 
fore peeling" will make the skin come off very easily re- 
moving all of the white skin with it. 

Shaping Croquettes 

Croquette mixtures should be very soft and creamy, but 
in this condition are very hard to handle unless they are 
ice cold. In moulding drop a spoonful of the cold mixture 
first into the breadcrumbs, then press into the mould, mak- 
ing it the desired shape. Unmould and proceed as directed 
on p. 104. 

]\Ioulds of many shapes can be bought, the cone being 
the best for ordinary purposes, but chickens, rabbits, etc., 
are very nice for special occasions. 

Canned Mushrooms 

In using canned mushrooms drain the liquor from them 
and rinse in cold water. This should be done with all canned 
vegetables such as peas, string beans, etc., that are in a 
liquid. The flavor is more delicate, that brackishness which 
is often noticeable being taken away. 

Shredded Lettuce 

To shred lettuce wash and dry well, lay several leaves to- 
gether. If they are very broad split in two places. Roll up 
tightly and w'ith a sharp knife cut across, making fine shreds. 
Toss lightly until they unroll and separate. This method 



APRIL MENUS 281 

of preparation makes lettuce a very dainty garnish. Parsley 
can be shredded or minced in the same way. 

The leaves are split so that the shreds will not be too long 
and it will Ije easier to eat them. 
Sealing Moulds 

In packing moulds in ice and salt, they should be 
thorou.^hly sealed with a piece of soft, pliable paper dipped 
in melted fat. Lay it along the crack, pressing closely so 
that it will fit absolutely tight. 



282 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



APRIL MENUS— COST AND FOOD VALUE— FOUR PERSONS 



Supplies — Cost 

6 lbs. Flour $0.21 

1 lb. Cornmeal 04 

1 lb. Giahani Floui- 05 

8 lbs. Bread 15 

Vi lb. Rice 04 

% pkg. I'uffed Rice 021/2 

I's pkg. Pettijohn 01 14 

\i pkg. Wheat Berries... .021/2 

% pkg. Farina 02 

1 lb. Macaroni 10 

51/2 lbs. Sugar 33 

1/2 pt. Molasses 04 

4 lbs. Round Stiak 64 

1 lb. Veal Steak 18 

1 lb. Calfs Brain 15 

1 lb. Beef Stew 14 

2 Calves' Hearts 15 

3 lbs. Loin of Mutton 60 

11/2 lbs. Halibut 22 

14 lb. Bacon 06 

3 lbs. Roast I'ork 60 

1 Beef Tongue 18 

4 doz. Eggs @ 25c 1.00 

8 qts. Milk 64 

2 pts. Cream 40 

3 lbs. Butter 96 

1 lb. English Walnuts 40 

1 pk. I'otatoes 40 



% pk. Sweet Potatoes. 
1/2 pt. Lentils. . 
2 cans I'eas. 



05 
03 
24 

1 can lomatoes 13 

1 can Kidnev Beans 12 

8 Onions 10 

6 Carrots 10 

4 Turnips 05 

6 Beets 10 

1 bunch Celery 10 

1/2 box Gelatine 08 

2 bunches Rhubarb 10 

y. lb. Prunes 05 

14 pk. Apples 10 

% lb. Figs 05 

% lb. Dates 05 

1 lb. Raisins 15 

4 Lemons 10 

6 Bananas 10 

2 Grapefruit 25 

% can Pineapple 08 

3 oz. Chocolate 06 

% oz. Cocoa 02 

% lb. Coffee 22 

1/16 lb. Tea 04 

Total for week $10.23 



Total 

9,840 

1,739 

1,664 

3,615 

816 

730 

426 

730 

354 

1,600 

10,230 

666 

4,440 

4S0 

576 

1,110 

600 

3,984 

703 

800 

4,500 

800 

3,808 

5,200 

1,820 

10,815 

3,200 

2,247 

600 

1,070 

1,020 

210 

800 

200 

200 

100 

200 

50 

50 

100 

800 

440 

300 

725 

1,200 

144 

400 

200 

100 

450 

72 



-FOOD units- 
Protein 
1,180 
157 
249 
468 
72 
80 
77 
80 
53 
240 



86,926 



3 

1,600 

202 

152 

400 

166 

1,792 

281 

48 

1,080 

376 

1,220 

992 

91 

54 

320 

247 

32 

225 

252 

44 

189 

26 

20 

13 

4 

12 

9 

10 

24 

13 

15 

14 

36 

12 

22 

14 

4 

36 

12 



12,718 



Fat 

294 

191 

83 

219 

8 

7 

30 

7 

18 

32 



2,840 

278 

424 

710 

434 

2,192 

424 

752 

3,420 

424 

2,588 

2,704 

1,565 

10.761 

2,656 

22 

88 

193 

32 

15 

25 

10 

16 

4 

46 

2 



27 



31 



51 

108 

20 

22 

8 

6 

324 

38 



34,169 



Starch 

& Sugar 

8,306 

1,391 

1,332 

2,928 

736 

643 

319 

643 

283 

1,328 

10,230 

663 



1,504 
164 



1,978 

480 

652 

736 

151 

586 

164 

164 

83 

130 

36 

41 

63 

776 

396 

285 

660 

1,056 

112 

356 

178 

90 

90 

22 



40,059 



Food Units per Day — 12.418. Food Units per Day per Person — 3,104. 
Cost of Food per Day— $1.46. Cost per Day per Person — $0,365. 
Of the Total Food Value 14% Is Protein, 39% Is Fat, and 47% Is 
Stabch and Sugar. 



AFBIL MENUS 283 

SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING THE COST OF 
THE APRIL MENUS 

Use butter substitutes in cooking". Use top of milk 
in place of cream for cereal and coffee. If expensive re- 
duce the quantity of milk or use skimmed milk in cooking. 

In L. 153 omit the scrambled eggs and chopped meat; 
also the almond steak in L. 154, substituting lettuce. In 
L. 155 omit the sweet potatoes, and substitute cherry 
cubes for Jerusalem pudding for dessert. Cherry cubes 
may be made from Cherry Jello or Bromangelan, or by 
flavoring plain gelatine with cherry and, when set, cut into 
^ inch cubes for serving. 

In L. 156 use dry toast instead of hot cornbread or plain 
rice for puffed rice, and in L. 157 omit the sauted brains. 
In L. 158 serve old potatoes riced, instead of new potatoes 
in cream, and use rhubarb sauce in place of pie for des- 
sert. In L. 159 omit the doughnuts, and in L. 161 the peas. 
In L. 162 omit the cereal and baked apples. 

In L, 164 substitute Hamburg roast for baked loin of 
mutton. In L. 165 omit the cereal and use leftover beef 
for beef ramikins, also use dry toast in place of coffee cake. 
In L. 167 omit the timbale cases. In L. 168 omit the 
prunes and the tomato toast and use dry toast instead of 
cream muffins. In L. 170 use raisin bread pudding instead 
of bake well pudding. 

In L, 171 have dry toast instead of the hot cross buns. 
In L. 172 substitute veal steak for roast pork and orange 
ice for German Puffs and Sabyon sauce for dessert. 

ESTIMATED REDUCTIONS. 

1^ lbs. butter, 48c, less Jerusalem pudding, 15c, 

iy2 lbs. oleo, 30c $ .18 less cherry cubes, 5e... .10 

2 qts. milk 16 Cornbread 12 

1 pt. cream 20 Brains 15 

4 eggs 12 Cream sauce 06 

Almond steak, 20c, less let- Pastry for pie 06 

tuce, 5c 15 Doughnuts 08 

Sweet potatoes 05 Peas 12 

Wheat, berries, cream and 
sugar 06 



284 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



ESTIMATED EEDUCTIONS— Continued 
$ .05 



Baked apples 

LfOin of mutton, 60c, less 

Hamburg steak, 42c 18 

Farina, cream and sugar. . .06 

Coffee cake 12 

Timbale cases 12 

Prunes 05 

Tomato toast 06 

Cream muffins 15 



Bakewell pudding, 15c, less 
raisin bread, 6c 09 

Hot Cross buns 15 

Roast pork, 60c, less 
veal steak, 30c 30 

German puffs and sauce, 
35c, less orange ice, 10c .25 



Original total cost $10.25 

Eeduction 3.19 



New total cost per week $ 7.06 

New cost per day 1.01 

New cost ]^ev day per person 0.25 



MAY MENUS 




A BUTLER'S TRAY ON WHEELS 
Photograph Furnished by a Massachusetts Student of the A. S. H. E. 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

PART IX 

CARE OF FOOD IN THE HOME 

Food should never be kept in paper sacks or packages, 
but when received should be put away in tightly closed jars, 
well labeled. Packages that may be opened without dam- 
age so that they may be closed, such as. crackers, etc., may 
be left in the package, but care should be taken each time 
to fold the oiled paper and close the box properly. 

Dried fruits should be scalded to kill any germs, washed 
thoroughly, dried, and put away clean. 

Nuts, if bought shelled, should be scalded, dried and put 
away in glass jars, ready for use. 

Vegetables of the tuber class should be kept in a dark 
place. 

Green vegetables should either be put into water, or else 
washed, laid in cloths or folds of paper, and kept on ice 
or in a cool place. 

Bread should never be wrapped in cloths, but kept in tin 
boxes or stone jars, which should be scalded out every 
week, aired and dried thoroughly. 

Cake, doughnuts, cookies, etc., should also be kept in tin 
boxes or stone jars. 

Meat, when received from the butcher, should be removed 
from the paper immediately, put on a plate and set near 
the ice or in a cool place. Before using it should be wiped 
with a damp cloth. 

E-ggs, when received, should be washed and kept in a 
cool place. If desired very cold, and no ice is on hand, let 
stand in cold water. 

Butter should be kept in a covered jar in a cool place. 
If set in the refrigerator, it, with the milk, should be placed 
on the bottom shelf, so that any odors that might arise 
from other foods will be less likely to permeate them. 

Milk, when received, unless in bottles, should be put into 
well scalded, cooled pans. If in bottles, wash carefully, 
especially the mouth and top, and let the milk stand in them 
until ready for use. 
Copyright, 1912, by Home Economics Association. 

285 



286 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Care and Use of the Refrigerator 

The refrigerator should be washed once a week when 
the ice is low or out. The drains should be carefully 
cleaned out, using for this purpose a round stick with swab 
attached, or a brush with the bristles coming out from the 
center, made especially for this purpose. The little cup 
under the drain should receive special attention. If the 
refrigerator is attached to a main drain, the pipes leading 
to it should occasionally be cleaned and flushed. A piece 
of charcoal laid in the refrigerator will absorb odors and 
impurities, and will aid greatly in keeping it sweet and 
pure. 

What to do Without Ice 

This is a problem confronting many housekeepers. If 
there is a cellar, of course that is the solution. A "dumb 
waiter" running from the kitchen or pantry to the cold room 
of the cellar will save many steps. 

A window box, of which there are many kinds on the 
market now, the metal ones being the best, or a home-made 
one fitted up and set in the window, will keep food very well 
during cool weather. In warm weather its efficacy can be 
increased by keeping heavy cloths, such as burlap or gunny 
sacks, kept wet in cold water, laid over it. This principle 
of creating cold by evaporation can be applied in many 
ways. 

A miner's box carrying out this principle can be used in 
the home, out camping, and in any emergency. Take the 
frame of a box, the ends, top and bottom on, with the two 
sides open, and fit it up with shelves. Good dimensions for 
this would be 2 ft high, 3 ft long and i ft deep. Cover the 
back of the box with three thicknesses of muslin and two 
layers of burlap, old blanket or other heavy material. 
Make the front of the box of the . same material, but so 
arranged that it may be raised or opened as a door. Make 
as nearly dustproof as possible. Keep the front and back 
wet constantly and the box standing where a breeze will 
strike it. 

A good way to keep the cloth wet is to have a large bowl 
of water standing on top of the box with strips of cloth 
running from it to the sides. The water in the bowl will 
have to be replenished frequently. 



MAY MENUS 287 

The degree of cold obtained will depend greatly upon 
the condition of the atmosphere. When this is very dry, 
the evaporation will be much more rapid, and the cold cor- 
respondingly increased. 

Care of Leftovers 

The greatest attention should be given to the care of the 
leftovers so that they will be in the proper condition to use. 
Foods should never be put away in the dishes in which they 
have been served, because of the inconvenience, the unat- 
tractiveness in appearance, and the inadvisability of setting 
good dishes in the refrigerator. A small jar should be kept 
especially for meats. When the meat is brought from the 
table it should be freed from the bones and fat and put into 
the jar. If the bones are to be used for soup, put them at 
one side of the jar. Gravies and the scrapings of the plat- 
ter should be kept in a small bowl. 

Vegetables should receive the care that their character 
demands. Green vegetables, as stated above should be 
wrapped in a cloth or paper and put in a cool place. When 
cooked vegetables are left, plan the use, and put away 
accordingly. Two or three may be put away together if they 
are to be combined in a made-over dish, as in soups, cro- 
quettes, etc. 

Jelly glasses are very convenient for this purpose, occupy- 
ing small space and being easily covered. 

Pieces of bread that are left, crusts, etc., should be put 
in a pan and set in a warm, dry place where they will dry 
out slowly and be ready to use as bread crumbs or dry 
bread. They should never be thrown back into the bread 
box with the other bread. Cake and cookies should be 
taken care of in the same way dry cake crumbs, being very 
useful in making desserts. 

Small amounts of preserves, jellies, canned fruits, etc., if 
put away in jelly glasses and kept covered so they will not 
dry out, can also be used to advantage in desserts and 
entrees. 

Keeping Supplies on Hand 

The systematic, thoughtful housekeeper will always have 
on hand reserve supplies to meet whatever emergency may 
arise. In selecting these supplies, thought should be given 



288 LESSONS IN COOKING 

to the use to which they may be put. Canned soups, and 
vegetables that can be utihzed in cream soups, should be 
on hand. Canned vegetables are always easy to choose, but 
it requires a little thought to get materials that could be 
used for salads. For this, asparagus, string beans, kidney 
beans, peas, with the addition of nuts, can be utilized very 
nicely. In fruits, canned peaches, pears, pineapple, white 
cherries and grapes, either in combination or with oranges, 
bananas, nuts, etc., will make dainty salads. 

The "bouillon cubes" now on the market are excellent 
and very convenient. A can or two of unsweetened con- 
densed milk may help out in an emergency. There now 
may be obtained a number of canned dehydrated fruits and 
vegetables — even dehydrated cream soup — which take up 
little space in the store closet. These are especially useful 
when camping. The dried fruits — apricots, peaches, prunes, 
apples and pears, are much less expensive than canned fruits 
and may be kept on hand in covered receptacles. They can- 
not be prepared quickly, however. 

Canned fish, such as salmon, kippered herring, etc., and 
the canned nieats, tongue, chicken, corned beef, etc., will 
help greatly in an emergency, being served either cold or 
hot, in a natural state, or with some sauce, or made into 
scalloped dishes, croquettes, souffles, etc. Smoked fish and 
meats may be kept on hand in small quantities. 

For desserts, the following suggestions may be helpful: 
Boxes of candied pineapple, cherries, and other fruits, with 
dates, figs and nuts, will always furnish the foundation for a 
quick, dainty dessert. For example, into the bottom of a 
pudding dish put some toasted breakfast food, such as 
pufifed wheat, or bread, or cake crumbs, sprinkle over with 
small pieces of dates and a few nuts. Another layer of 
breakfast food, with some more dates and nuts on top; 
over this pour a little soft custard or cream. A few pieces 
of candied pineapple or cherries on top will make it more 
attractive. 

Canned plum pudding, different kinds of fancy wafers, 
and preserved fruits will always be ready. 



MAY MENUS 
Monday BREAKFAST Lesson 175 

CREAM OF WHEAT 

BROILED BEEF PATTIES ZANTE MUFFINS 

COFFEE 

Cream of Wheat 

Three-eighths c Cream of Wheat, 2 c boiling water, J^ t 
salt. 
Broiled Beef Patties 

Grind i lb. round steak 2 or 3 times, shape into patties 
about 2 inches in diameter and ^ inch thick. Place in a 
smoking hot frying pan and broil about 5 m, browning first 
one side, then the other. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
spread with butter and serve. 
Zante Muffins 

Cream ^ c butter and Yi c sugar ; add 2 eggs well beaten ; 
mix well, then add 94 c milk. Mix and sift together i c 
cornmeal, ^ c flour, Yz t salt, and 2^^ t baking powder. 
Add to the first mixture with >4 c currants, mix thoroughly 
and pour into hot buttered muf^n pans. Bake about 25 m 
in a hot oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal if made the previous evening, make the 
muffins, and while baking prepare the beef patties and make 
the cofifee. Wash the raspberries and serve the cereal. Broil 
the patties just before serving and bring to the table piping 
hot with the mufhns and coffee. 

Immediately after breakfast start the luncheon rolls. 

LUNCHEON 
Monday Lesson 176 

CHAMBERY POTATOES 

LUNCHEON ROLLS JELLY 

TEA 

Chambery Potatoes 

Wash, pare and slice very thin, 4 potatoes, using if avail- 
able, a vegetable cutter. Stand in cold water J^ h, drain 
and dry between towels. Arrange in layers in a well but- 
tered baking pan, having the pan ^ full ; season each layer 

289 



290 LESSONS IN COOKING 

with salt and pepper, and brush over with melted butter. 
Cook in a moderate oven about }i h, or until soft and brown. 
Luncheon Rolls 

Add 2 T sugar and }i t salt to ^ c scalded milk ; when 
lukewarm add J/^ yeast cake dissolved in 2 T lukewarm 
water, and % c flour. Cover, set in a warm place to rise; 
then add 2 T melted butter, i egg well beaten, grated rind of 
I lemon, and enough flour to knead. Let rise again, roll to 
5^ inch in thickness, shape with a small biscuit cutter, place 
in a buttered pan close together, let rise again, and bake. 
Preparing the Meal 

About i^ h before lunch slice the potatoes and stand in 
cold water ^ h. Then prepare the potatoes for baking and 
place in the oven. By this time the rolls should be light 
and may be baked with the potatoes. The rolls will require 
about ^ h, while the potatoes will take from ^ to i h to 
bake. 

Place the jelly on the table, make the tea and when the 
potatoes are done serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 177 

BEEF A LA MODE 

MASHED POTATOES CUCUMBERS A LA POULETTE 

APPLE SALAD 

FRUIT CANNELONS WITH CREAM 

Beef a la Mode 

With strips of cloth or with twine bind 3 or 4 lbs. of beef 
from the top of the round into circular shape. With a 
sharp knife make several incisions and into these 
press strips of salt pork, half an inch thick; make 
other incisions and into these press bread stuffing, 
^ c crumbs, moistened with hot water or stock, i t 
salt, 34 t pepper, ^ onion chopped fine, i T chopped parsley ; 
sear and brown well all sides of the beef in the hot drippings 
from the salt pork, using an iron kettle ; add a sprig or two 
of parsley, i onion and carrot chopped fine, half cover with 
boiling water, and cook very slowly below the boiling point 
until tender. This will require 4-5 h. The fireless cooker is 
splendid for this kind of cookery. Cover tightly, adding 



MAY MENUS 291 

more water as necessary. Remove the meat from the kettle, 
skim the fat from the liquid, thicken with flour mixed to a 
paste with cold water, using 2 T flour for each cup of liquid, 
season with salt and pepper, boil a few m and serve. 
Mashed Potatoes 

Four medium sized potatoes, i>^ T butter, 3^^ c milk, ij^ t 
salt, dash of pepper. 
Cucumbers a la Poulette 

Pare 2 medium sized cucumbers, cut them in halves, and 
with a spoon scoop out the seeds. Cut each half into three 
pieces, crosswise,cover with boiling salted water and cook un- 
til tender, about 35-40 m. Drain, reserving i c of the liquid. 
Melt 2 T butter, add 2 T flour and when well blended, add 
the liquid from the cucumbers, stir until boiling, add 3^ t 
salt, dash of pepper, and pour slowly onto the beaten yolk 
of I egg. Return to the fire, cook a minute longer, add i 
T lemon juice, and the pieces of cucumber, heat thoroughly 
and serve. 
Apple Salad 

Wash, pare and dice 3 medium sized tart apples, add 3^ c 
chopped peanuts, i stalk celery, cut into J^ inch lengths, 
cover with salad dressing, and serve on lettuce leaves. 
Fruit Cannelons 

Mix and sift thoroughly 2 c flour, i T sugar, _>^ t salt, 2 t 
baking powder ; add 2 T finely ground nuts, mix well, then 
add 34 c milk gradually. The dough should be moist, but 
not wet. Turn out onto a floured board, pat out to about 3^ 
inch in thickness, cut into strips i inch wide and 12 inches 
long, wrap around a cannelon mould, or if not available, a 
small baking powder can, and stand upright to bake. If no 
moulds of any kind can be secured, line muffin pans with the 
dough, brush over with milk, dust with granulated sugar, 
and bake 20 m in a hot oven. When done slip from the 
moulds or pan, and fill with fruit, either crushed fresh fruit, 
or stewed fruit. Serve with cream and sugar. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 4 h before dinner prepare the beef and put on to 
cook. An h before dinner wash and pare the potatoes and 
cucumbers and put each on to cook in boiling salted water. 
Then make the cannelons, and while baking prepare the 



292 LESSONS IN COOKING 

apple salad, placing on lettuce leaves and setting in a cool 
place until needed. Drain the cucumbers, saving i c liquid, 
make the sauce for them, then drain and mash the potatoes. 
Remove the meat from the kettle, make gravy if desired, 
and serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 178 

OATMEAL — CREAM AND SUGAR 

EGGS A LA BUCKINGHAM DRY TOAST 

COFFEE 

Oatmeal 

One and one half c oatmeal, 4 c boiling w^ater, i t salt. 
Reserve half of the porridge for future use. 
Eggs a la Buckingham 

Alake 4 slices milk toast, and arrange on a platter. Beat 
4 eggs slightly, add >^ t salt, Ys t pepper, and ^ c milk. 
Turn into a heated frying pan in which there are 2 T melted 
butter, cook, stirring constantly, until of a creamy con- 
sistency, pour over the toast, and sprinkle with 4 T grated 
cheese. Serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal and prepare the eggs for cooking. 
Make the coffee and toast, and cook the eggs. Serve the 
cereal and put the eggs, a trifle undercooked, on the toast 
with the grated cheese on top, and set in a very slow oven 
until ready to serve. 

Immediately after breakfast cook the lamb for dinner, 
also make the pineapple fanchonettes for dessert for din- 
ner. Mould the leftover oatmeal to be used the following 
morning. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 179 

POTATO CAKES CHEESE BALLS 

BREAD AND BUTTER TOMATO PRESERVES 

TEA 

Potato Cakes 

Two c mashed potato, I egg, Yz t salt (p. 127). 
Cheese Balls 

Mix \y2 Q. grated cheese with i T flour, ^ t salt, few 
grains cayenne, and the yolks of 2 eggs. Beat the whites 



MAY MENUS 293 

of 2 eggs stiff and add to the first mixture. Shape in small 
balls, roll in cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat to a 
golden brown. Drain on brown paper. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 20 m before lunch prepare the potato cakes, then 
make the cheese balls, having the fat heating while doing 
so. Saute the potato cakes, fry the cheese balls, make the 
tea and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Tuesday Lesson 180 

LAMB FRICASSEE — PEAS 

HONGROISE POTATOES ASPARAGUS 

PINEAPPLE FANCHONETTES 

Lamb Fricassee 

Wipe i^ lbs. lamb, cut from the fore quarter into pieces 
for serving, cover with boiling water and cook slowly below 
the boiling point until the meat is tender. Remove from 
the water, cool, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour and saute in butter until golden brown in color. Re- 
move from the pan to a hot dish, make i c brown gravy 
(3 T flour), using the liquid in which the meat was cooked 
and from which the fat has been skimmed. Add the meat 
to the gravy, reheat, and serve on a platter with green peas 
for a border. 
Green Peas 

Shell I qt. green peas, cover with cold water and let 
stand ^ h. Skim off the undeveloped peas that rise to the 
top, drain off the water ; add a small quantity boiling water, 
say I c to I pt. of peas, and cook from 20 to 60 m, accord- 
ing to the age of the peas. Add more water from time to 
time, if necessary, but do not have much excess to drain 
off when the peas are cooked. Add salt the last 15 m of 
cooking. When tender, drain, add 2 T butter, dash of 
pepper. Pour around the lamb fricassee. 
Hongroise Potatoes 

Wash, pare and cut into J^ inch cubes enough potatoes 
to fill 2 c ; cover with boiling salted water and parboil 3 m ; 
drain, add ^4 c butter and cook slowly until tender and 
slightly browned. Make i c white sauce (2 T flour), add 



294 LESSONS IN COOKING 

few drops onion juice if desired, then add slowly the beaten 
yolk of I egg. Pour over the potato cubes, add i T finely 
chopped parsley, and serve. 
Asparagus 

Wash I bundle of asparagus, and cut into J^ inch 
lengths, using the tender portions only. Save the tough 
ends for soup. Set the tips aside, as they will not require 
as much cooking as the rest of the asparagus. Cover the 
pieces with boiling salted water and cook until tender, add- 
ing the tips, about 15 minutes after the cooking has com- 
menced. Drain, reserving the liquid for soup, add 2 T 
butter, Yz t salt, and a dash of pepper. Serve at once. 
Pineapple Fanchonettes 

Beat together 3 eggs, % t salt, ^ c sugar, >^ c grated 
pineapple, and the juice and grated rind of >4 lemon. Turn 
the mixture into patty pans or tart pans, lined with plain 
paste (i>4 c flour, >^ c shortening, }i t salt, ji t baking 
powder, ice water, p. 130), and bake in a moderate oven. 
When partly cold cover with meringue, white of 2 eggs, 
left from Hongroise Potatoes and Cucumbers a la Poulette, 
beaten stifif with 2 T sugar (p. 131), brown the top, then 
cool. Serve cold. 
Preparing the Meal 

About i>4 h before dinnertime, shell the peas and cover 
with cold water for ^/^ h, wash, pare, dice, and cook the po- 
tatoes. Wash the asparagus, cut into >^ in. lengths, and cook 
about 25 m in boiling salted water. Then cook the peas in 
boiling water. Add the tips after the rest of the asparagus 
has been cooking 15 m. Now saute the lamb cooked in 
the morning, and while browning make the sauce for the 
potatoes. Remove the meat to a hot platter and make the 
brown gravy. Drain and season the asparagus, also the 
peas, add the potatoes to the sauce, heat, and serve the 
dinner. The Pineapple Fanchonettes, made in the morning 
should be served cold. 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 181 

CODDLED APPLES 

OATMEAL TIM BALES — CREAM SAUCE 

HOE CAKE COFFEE 



MAY MENUS 295 

Coddled Apples 

Wash, core, but do not pare 4 tart red apples. Make a 
syrup of 2 c water and i c sugar, place the apples in it, 
and cook covered, until they are tender but have still re- 
tained their shape. Remove from the syrup, boil the latter 
until thick, pour around each apple and serve. 
Oatmeal Timbale 

Pour leftover oatmeal into wet timbale or custard cups. 
When cold turn out, scoop out the centers and fill with 
chopped meat. Place in the oven until thoroughly hot 
and browned on top. Cover with i c Medium White Sauce 
(2 T flour), and serve. 
Hoe Cake 

Mix and sift i c white cornmeal, 5^ t salt, i t sugar ; pour 
on gradually i c boiling milk or water. If too thin add 
more cornmeal, but make it thick enough not to spread 
when put on the griddle. Grease the griddle with salt pork, 
and drop the mixture on with a large spoon. Pat the cakes 
out until about 3^ inch thick, cook them slowly and when 
browned put ^ t butter on the top of each and turn over. 
They cannot cook too long, provided they do not burn. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make the hoe cake the first thing in the morning, and 
while baking cook the apples. Make the oatmeal timbales 
and place in the oven. Then make the coffee and the cream 
sauce. Serve the apples, then the oatmeal timbales, hoe 
cake and the coffee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 182 

COLD SLICED BEEF STEAMED RICE 

EGG ROLLS PEACH BUTTER 

TEA 

Steamed Rice 

Pour 2 c boiling water on i c blanched rice ; add 5^ t 
salt. Cook in the double boiler 30 m or until tender. Un- 
cover, stir with a fork to let steam escape and dry off the 
rice. Serve with butter. 
Egg Rolls 

Mix and sift 2 c flour, ^ t salt and 4 t baking powder. 
Beat I egg lightly, add ^ c milk, and 2 T melted butter, 



296 LESSONS IN COOKING 

and pour into the flour mixture. Mix well together, toss 
onto a floured board, pat out to about 3^ inch in thickness, 
and cut with a large cutter. Dip a knife handle into flour, 
press down in the center of each biscuit, making a sort 
of hinge, brush with half melted butter, fold over and 
press lightly together. Stand on a greased shallow pan 
far enough apart not to touch in cooking. Brush the tops 
with milk and bake in a quick oven 20 m. 
Sponge Cake 

Beat the yolks of 6 eggs until thick and lemon colored, 
add I c sugar gradually, and continue beating using a Dover 
egg beater. Add i T lemon juice, the grated rind of 3^ 
lemon, and fold in the whites of 6 eggs beaten stiff and dry. 
When the whites are partially mixed with the yolk mixture 
cut and fold in very carefully i c flour mixed and sifted 
with 34 t salt. Bake i h in a slow oven in an angel cake pan 
or a deep narrow pan. 
Preparing the Meal 

About }i h before lunch blanch the rice and put on to 
cook in a double boiler. Make the egg rolls and bake to- 
gether with the sponge cake for dinner. While baking 
slice the beef left from Monday evening, place some peach 
butter on the table and make the tea. When the rice and 
rolls are done serve the lunch. 

While the rolls are baking have pieces of bread in the 
oven drying for the zweiback the following morning. 
Brown thoroughly throughout before removing from the 
oven. 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 183 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

BRAIZED BEEF TONGUE 

POTATO CUBES CARROTS AU GRATIN 

LEMON MILK SHERBET SPONGE CAKE 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Cut the tough portions of the asparagus left from the 
preceding day, into small pieces, add the water drained 
from the asparagus cooked the day before and enough 
more to make i pt. Cook until tender, about ^ h, then 
add I t salt and press the pulp through a vegetable press. 



MAY MENUS 297 

While the asparagus is cooking melt 2 T butter in the 
tipper part of the double boiler, add 2 T flour, and when 
well blended add slowly, stirring all the time, 2 c milk. 
Boil a few m, then set over hot water. When the asparagus 
is cooked and mashed add to the mixture in the double 
boiler. Strain, reheat and serve. 
Braized Beef Tongue 

Use a fresh tongue for braizing. Place in a kettle, cover 
with boiling water and cook slowly for 2 h. Drain from 
the water, which should be saved, remove skin and roots, 
place in a deep pan, and surround with ys c each carrots, 
onion and celery, cut into small dice, and i sprig of parsley; 
pour over all 4 c of sauce made according to directions 
given below ; cover closely and bake 2 h, turning after the 
first h. Serve on a platter with the sauce strained around it. 
Sauce for the Tongue 

Melt 34 c butter, add 34 c flour and stir together until 
well browned. Add gradually 4 c of the water in which the 
tongue was cooked. Season with salt and pepper, add i t 
Worcestershire Sauce and ^ c stewed tomatoes if desired. 
Potato Cubes 

Wash, pare, and cut into }2 inch cubes 4 medium sized 
potatoes. Cover with boiling salted water and cook until 
tender ; drain and add 2 T butter, 3/2 t salt, 34 c milk and 2 
T chopped parsley. Let stand over hot water until the 
liquid has been all absorbed. Serve at once. 
Carrots au Gratin 

Wash, scrape, and dice 6 medium sized young carrots. 
Cover with boiling salted water and cook 20 m, or until 
nearly tender. Drain, saving the liquid. Melt 2 T butter, 
add 2 T flour, and when mixed add gradually, i c of the 
liquid in which the carrots were cooked. Boil a few min- 
utes until thickened, then add }i c grated cheese, 3^ t salt, 
dash of pepper, and the carrot cubes. Mix well together, 
pour into a buttered baking dish, cover the top with but- 
tered crumbs and bake until well heated throughout and 
browned on top. 
Lemon Milk Sherbet 

Mix the juice of 2 lemons, % c sugar and i c of boiling 
water. When cooled add slowly i pt. of milk. Turn into 



298 LESSONS IN COOKING 

a freezer, pack with salt and crushed ice, i part of the 
former to 2 of the latter, and freeze. 
Preparing the Meal 

Immediately after lunch put the meat on to cook; then 
make and freeze the sherbet, repack and set away until 
needed. Standing improves the flavor of frozen desserts. 

When the meat has been cooking 2 h, drain, make the 
sauce and finish the preparation of the tongue. Place in 
the oven to continue cooking. 

About ^ h before dinner, wash, scrape and dice the car- 
rots, and put on to cook. Also start the asparagus cooking. 
Then wash, pare, cube, and cook the potatoes. Drain the 
carrots and prepare for baking. Make the White Sauce 2 T 
flour, 2 c milk, for the soup, and while cooking mash the 
asparagus. Then add to the White Sauce. Drain the po- 
tato cubes, add the seasoning and cook a little while longer 
over hot water. 

When the tongue is done remove to a hot platter, strain 
the sauce around it, dish the vegetables, and serve the 
dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 184 

ORANGES 

CREAMED ZWEIBACH WITH EGG TIMBALES 

COFFEE 

Creamed Zweibach 

Cut bread or rusk into slices about J^ inch thick, place 
in the oven with low heat to thoroughly dry and brown 
throughout. Make a Medium White Sauce (3 T flour, i^ 
c milk), pour over the pieces of Zweibach, and serve at once 
with egg timbales. 

This slow drying of the bread changes part of the starch 
to dextrine, a form of sugar readily assimilated. 
Egg Timbales 

Butter timbale moulds or custard cups, and break a fresh 
egg into each cup, place 3^ t butter on top of each, set the 
mould in a pan of water in the oven until the eggs are set. 
Remove from the oven, loosen from the sides of the cup, 
and turn out onto pieces of creamed zweibach. Serve at 
once. 



MA¥ MENUS 299 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the egg timbales. Make the White Sauce, then 
place the timbales in the oven and also reheat the zweibach 
made the preceding- day. While the timbales are cooking 
make the coffee ; cut the oranges in half and serve the fruit, 
then the eggs, creamed zweibach, and coffee. Immediately 
after breakfast, cook the beets for dinner. When tender, 
remove the skins, slice and cover with vinegar. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 185 

TONGUE SOUFFLE 

BREAD AND BUTTER JELLY 

TEA 

Tongue Souffle 

Grind i c braized tongue left from the preceding eve- 
ning. Make i c Thin White Sauce (i T flour) ; when 
cooked and slightly cooled, add ^ c breadcrumbs, i c 
ground tongue, 34 t onion juice, ^^ t salt, ^ t paprika, i T 
chopped parsley, ^ t chopped celery, and the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs. Pour into a buttered baking dish, set in a pan 
of water, and bake until firm, 20-30 m. If baked in in- 
dividual moulds, 10-20 m only will be required. Mix 
thoroughly and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before lunch time prepare the tongue souffle 
and place in the oven ; 5 m before it is done make the tea, 
cut the bread and butter and place on the table with the 
jelly. Serve the lunch, leaving the souffle in the dish in 
which it was baked. 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 186 

FRICASSEED VEAL 

MASHED POTATOES STUFFED TOMATOES 

NEW BEETS — PICKLED 

PEACH CANAPES 

Fricasseed Veal 

Wipe 2 lbs. veal from the loin and cut into J^ inch 
cubes. Cover with boiling water, add i small onion, 2 
stalks celery, and 6 slices carrot. Cook slowly below the 
boiling point until the meat is tender, about i h. Remove 



300 LESSONS IN COOKING 

the meat from the broth, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour and saute in pork fat until a golden 
brown in color. Strain the broth of which there should 
be 2 c. Melt 4 T butter, add 4 T flour, and when mixed 
add the strained liquor. Boil a few m, season, and pour 
around the meat. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Select 4 firm good sized tomatoes. Wash thoroughly, 
then cut a slice from the blossom end and reserve for 
future use. Very carefully scoop out the interior leaving 
a firm shell. To the pulp add >^ c bread crumbs, browned 
in >4 c butter, yi c peas, }i c bacon, broiled crisp and cut 
into small pieces, and ^ c celery chopped very fine. Sea- 
son with i^ t salt, 34 t paprika, cook 5 m, add i beaten 
egg, cook I m longer; then fill the shells of the tomatoes, 
putting on the slices cut off, for covers, place in a dripping 
pan and bake 20 m in a hot oven. 

Note: If the fresh tomatoes cannot be secured use the 
canned, and lay in layers in baking dish, alternating with 
the above mixture, and bake as for scalloped. 
New Beets — Pickled 

Wash 6 medium sized beets thoroughly and cook until 
tender in boiling water. From ^ to 3 h will be required 
dependent upon the age of the beets. Tender new beets 
will cook in }i h. Drain, cover with cold water, and with 
the hands slip off the skins. Then slice the beets into }i 
inch slices, cover with vinegar, and let stand several h be- 
fore using. 

Peach Canapes 

Saute circular pieces of sponge cake in butter until deli- 
cately browned. Drain canned peaches from their syrup, 
cover with powdered sugar, and add a few drops lemon 
juice and a slight grating of nutmeg. Melt i T butter, add 
the peaches and enough syrup to keep them from burning, 
heat thoroughly, and serve on the browned cake. Serve 
hot with or without cream as desired. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I % h before dinner time prepare the veal for the 
fricassee and start to cooking. Wash and pare the pota- 
toes and stand in cold water. Wash and remove the pulp 



MAY MENUS 301 

from the tomatoes, prepare the stufifing- and refill the shells. 
Now cook the potatoes in salted water and put the to- 
matoes in the oven. Cut the cake left from the preceding 
evening into circular pieces, and saute in butter to a golden 
brown. Open and drain a can of peaches and heat with i 
T butter and a little syrup. Drain the meat from the broth, 
dredge with flour and brown in pork fat. Then make 2 c 
of browned sauce, using the strained broth for the liquid. 
Drain and mash the potatoes, remove the tomatoes from 
the oven, put the meat on a hot platter, pouring the sauce 
around it, and serve the dinner. 

Heat the peaches for the canapes just before serving. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 187 

CANNED PLUMS 

LAMB CHOPS BUTTERED TOAST 

COFFEE 

Lamb Chops 

Wipe shoulder chops, broil about 7 m in a hot frying 
pan, browning both sides, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
spread with butter and serve. 
Preparing the Meal 

Wipe the chops and start to cooking. Open a can of 
plums and place the fruit on the table in individual por- 
tions ; make the toast and coffee, not forgetting to turn the 
chops occasionally. Serve the fruit, then the chops, toast 
and coffee. Immediately after breakfast make the potato 
biscuits and set to rise, then make and shape the veal cro- 
quettes for lunch. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 188 

VEAL CROQUETTES CURRANT JELLY 
POTATO BISCUITS TEA 

Veal Croquettes 

Grind enough meat left from the preceding evening to 
fill I c. Make i c Thick White Sauce (4 T flour), add to 
it ^ c breadcrumbs, 3^ t onion juice, i T each, chopped 
celery and parsley, ^ t salt and the chopped meat. Mix 
thoroughly and when cold shape as desired, cone, square. 



302 LESSONS IN COOKING 

cylinder, etc., then egg and crumb, and fry in deep hot 
fat until brown and heated throughout. 
Potato Biscuit 

Scald ^ c milk. To it add 3^ T butter, i T sugar, /z t 
salt, and 3^ c mashed potato, white or sweet as desired. 
When lukewarm add yeast cake dissolved in ^ c luke- 
warm water. Mix the sponge with 1^2 c or 2 c flour, or 
until stiff enough to knead. When smooth let rise until 
double in bulk, thf n knead, shape, let rise again and bake. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 20 m before lunch time put the fat on to heat for 
the veal croquettes. Then egg and crumb the croquettes 
made and shaped in the morning. When the fat is hot fry 
the croquettes, make the tea and serve the lunch. The 
potato biscuits w^ere made and baked in the morning. 

Make the raspberry sponge for dinner immediately after 
lunch. 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 189 

PLANKED SHAD 

DUCHESS POTATOES CREAMED BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

CUCUMBERS WITH FRENCH DRESSING 

RASPBERRY SPONGE 

Planked Shad 

Clean and split a 3 lb. shad. Put the skin side down on 
oak plank i inch thick, and a little longer and wider than 
the fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper and brush over with 
melted butter. Bake 25 m in a hot oven. Remove from 
the oven, spread with butter and garnish with parsley and 
lemon. The fish should be served on the plank. In this 
instance make a border of Duchess potatoes around it. 

Planked fish can be well cooked in a gas oven having 
the flame over the fish. 
Duchess Potatoes 

To 2 c hot riced potatoes add 2 T butter, ^ t salt and 
the yolks of 2 eggs or i whole egg slightly beaten. Shape 
wnth a pastry bag, using star or rose point, make a border 
around the fish on the plank, brush over with beaten egg 
diluted with i t water, and brown in a hot oven. 



MAY MENUS 303 

Creamed Brussels Sprouts 

Pick over i pt. brussels sprouts, remove the wilted 
leaves, then soak in cold water 15 m; cook 20 m or until 
tender in boiling salted water. Drain, add i c Medium 
White Sauce (2 T flour), and serve. 

Note: Brussels sprouts, belong to the same family as 
the cabbage. They are much smaller, however, being 
about the size of a walnut. 
Cucumbers with French Dressing 

Cut thick slices from both ends of the cucumber and pare 
thickly, since the cucumber contains a bitter principle 
which lies near the skin and stem ends. Slice thin and 
stand in cold salted water for ^ h before serving. Serve 
with French Dressing, p. 175. 
Raspberry Sponge 

Soak y/3 T gelatine in 3 T cold water ^ h, then dissolve 
in 3 T boiling water ; strain and add ^ c sugar, ^ T lemon 
juice, and ^ c canned raspberry pulp and juice. Chill in 
a pan of ice water ; when quite thick beat with a wire spoon 
until frothy, then add the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs 
left from the Duchess potatoes, and fold in the whip from 
I c cream. Turn into a mould, smooth evenly and chill. 
Preparing the Meal 

About I h before dinner wash, pare and put on to cook 
in boiling salted water 4 medium sized potatoes. Pare 
and slice the cucumbers and stand in cold water. Pick 
over and wash the brussels sprouts and cover with cold 
water for 15 m. Now wipe and split the shad, put on 
the plank and set in the oven. Drain the sprouts, cover 
with boiling salted water and while cooking make the 
white sauce. Now drain and rice the potatoes and prepare 
the duchess mixture. Remove the fish from the oven, 
arrange the potato border and return to the oven to brown. 
Drain the brussels sprouts and add to the white sauce. 
Heat thoroughly. Place the crisp cucumber slices in lettuce 
leaves. The French Dressing may be made at the table if 
desired. Remove the fish with the browned potato border 
from the oven and serve the dinner. 

The raspberry sponge is cold and ready to serve when 
needed, having been made after lunch. 



304 LESSONS IN COOKING 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 190 

FARINA 
GERMAN TOAST COFFEE 

Farina 

Use % c farina, 2 c boiling water , 3^ t salt, p. 16. 
German Toast 

Beat 3 eggs slightly, add 5^ t salt, 2 T sugar, and i c 
milk. Soak 6 slices bread in this mixture until soft. Cook 
on a hot well greased griddle or frying pan ; brown on one 
side, turn and brown on the other. Serve hot either plain 
or with syrup or powdered sugar. 
Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cereal; cut the bread and prepare the egg 
mixture for the German Toast. Make the cofifee then 
finish the toast, watching that it does not burn. Serve the 
cereal, then the German Toast and coffee. 

Set the sponge for the cinnamon rolls before serving the 
breakfast. 

SATURDAY BAKING 

Cinnamon Rolls 

Add 2 T sugar, }^ t salt to i c scalded milk and when 
lukewarm add i yeast cake dissolved in ^ c lukewarm 
water, and i^^ c flour. Cover and set in a warm place to 
rise. When double in bulk add ^ c butter, 4 T sugar, 
and flour enough to knead ; let rise, knead, roll out into a 
sheet y2 inch thick spread with a mixture made of ^ c 
butter, y2 c sugar, i T cinnamon, creamed together, roll 
up like a jelly roll and cut into slices about }i inch thick. 
Place in a pan an inch apart, let rise again, then bake. 
Brown Bread 

Use I c each rye meal, cornmeal, and Graham flour, ^ t 
soda, i>4 t salt, ^ c molasses, i^ c sweet milk or water 

(P- 31)- 
Macaroons 

One half lb. almond paste, I c powdered sugar, whites 
of 3 eggs (p. 121). 
White Cake 

Cream ^ c butter, add 2 c sugar, then i c milk added 



MAY MENUS 3U5 

alternately with 3 c flour sifted with 4 t baking powder. 
Add I t vanilla and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 4 
eggs. Bake in layers or in i loaf as desired. 
Mocha Frosting 

Cream Ys c butter, add gradually i>^ c very fine pow- 
dered sugar, and cream well ; add i T powdered cocoa, and 
then drop by drop enough strong coffee infusion to make 
of the right consistency to spread. Beat well before 
spreading on the cake. 

Method of Work 

The first thing in the morning set the sponge for the 
cinnamon rolls. Immediately after breakfast make the 
brown bread and set to steaming. When this is done the 
sponge will have risen and the dough may be made, 
kneaded and set to rise again. Make the macaroons next, 
and while baking slowly, make the cake. While the cake 
is baking the cinnamon rolls may be finished, shaped and 
set to rise again for the last time. Make the frosting for 
the cake and when the cake is cool spread with the frost- 
ing. This frosting will not be injured by standing a while. 
By the time the cake is baked the rolls will be ready for 
the oven. Bake about 20 m or >^ h. While the cinnamon 
rolls are baking, place the brown bread in the oven for 
the last half hour to dry off and brown. 

Make and shape the nut croquettes for dinner and set 
away in a cool place until needed. Clean, singe, and cut up 
the chicken for Sunday dinner, and put away in a covered 
bowl in a cool place. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 191 

FISH A LA CREME 
BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER TEA 

Fish a la Creme 

Make i c Medium White Sauce (2 T flour), seasonmg 
with I T chopped parsley, i t chopped onion; cover the 
bottom of a small buttered baking dish with % c flaked 
fish, left from the preceding evening, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and add >4 the sauce; repeat using the same 
quantity of fish. Cover the top with buttered crumbs and 
bake in a hot oven until the crumbs are browned. 



306 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Preparing the Meal 

About 20 m before lunch time prepare the fish a la creme 
and place in the oven; 5 m before it is done cut the brown 
bread made in the morning, and place with the butter on 
the table. Make the tea and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 192 

NUT CROQUETTES 

MASHED POTATOES ONION SOUFFLE 

WILTED LETTUCE 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Nut Croquettes 

Make i c Thick Sauce (3 T butter, 4 T flour), add to 
it I T chopped parsley, 2 T lemon juice, i t salt, ^ t 
pepper, i c ground or chopped nutmeats, 3 T breadcrumbs, 
and the yolks of 2 eggs, left from the morning's baking. 
Mix thoroughly, shape, when cold, egg and crumb and 
fry in deep hot fat to a golden brown in color. Drain on 
paper. Serve either plain or with White or Tomato Sauce. 

Onion Souffle 

Cook 6 medium sized onions until tender, about i h and 
pass through a vegetable press. Add the pulp to i c Thick 
White Sauce (4 T flour). Separate the yolks and whites 
of 3 eggs (in this case use 2 whole eggs and 2 yolks left 
from the baking), add the beaten yolks to the sauce, with i 
T chopped parsley, then cut and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs. Turn into a buttered baking dish, set 
in a pan of water and bake in a moderate oven 20 m or 
until firm. 

Wilted Lettuce 

Wash thoroughly and chop slightly i head of lettuce. 
Cut 4 thin slices of bacon into tiny cubes and broil slowly 
until brown and crisp. To the cubes and fat in the pan 
add ys t paprika, and ^ c weak vinegar. Mix thoroughly, 
heat to the boiling point and pour over the lettuce. Serve 
at once. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Use 2 c flour, 4 1 baking-powder, i/^ t salt, I T shortening, 



MAY MENUS 307 

about }i c milk or water (p. 47). Bake in 2 sheets, but- 
tered, and placed together. 

Pick over and wash i qt. of strawberries. Mash slightly 
adding i c sugar. Cover the lower layer of the shortcake 
with the strawberries, replace the top layer, cover with 
berries and serve, with or without cream as desired. 
Preparing the Meal 

About I h before dinner time put the onions on to cook 
in boiling salted water. Since they are to be mashed, and 
it is not desired to have a very strong flavor, they may be 
cut into small pieces for cooking, thus lessening the time 
for cooking by about half. Wash, pare and cook 4 medium 
sized potatoes. Now make the shortcake and place in the 
oven. Wash and chop the lettuce, pick over, wash and 
mash the strawberries with the sugar. Cut the bacon into 
small cubes for broiling. Make the White Sauce for the 
souffle. 

Now drain and mash the onions, finish the souffle and 
place in the oven. Put the fat for frying the croquettes 
over the fire, and while heating egg and crumb the cro- 
quettes, and when the fat is hot, fry, allowing about 8 m 
for cooking. Put the bacon over the fire, and while broil- 
ing drain and mash the potatoes. If desired make a tomato 
or white sauce for the croquettes. Add the vinegar to the 
bacon fat, and when thoroughly hot pour over the lettuce. 

Drain the croquettes, remove the shortcake and souffle 
from the oven and serve the dinner. 

Put the shortcake together just before serving the din- 
ner, reserving the fruit for the top layer, however, until 
just before the dessert is served. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 193 

FRESH STRAWBERRIES WITH POWDERED SUGAR 

PUFFED RICE 

CHEESE OMELET CINNAMON ROLLS 

COFFEE 

Strawberries 

Pick over and wash well i pt. of strawberries. Place 
in sauce dishes, cover thickly with powdered sugar and 
serve. 



308 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Puffed Rice 

Place Quaker Puffed Rice in the oven to become 
thoroughly crisp before serving. 

Cheese Omelet 

Use 4 eggs, ^ t salt, dash of pepper, 4 t butter, ^ c 
grated cheese (p. 125). 

Preparing the Meal 

Reheat the cinnamon rolls and at the same time heat 
the puffed rice. Look over the strawberries, wash and 
place on the table. Make the omelet, and while slowly 
cooking make the coffee. Serve the fruit, then the cereal, 
then the omelet, rolls and coffee. If desired the fruit and 
cereal may be combined, 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 194 

FRIED CHICKEN — GRAVY 

MASHED POTATOES TOMATOES WITH CREAM SAUCE 

APPLE, DATE AND CELERY SALAD 

VANILLA ICE CREAM MACAROONS 

Fried Chicken 

Clean and singe 2 young chickens (p. loi), and cut into 
pieces for serving. This may be done as follows : Cut the 
legs from the body, break the joint at the thigh and cut 
in two. Also break the bone at the knee and cut the lower 
leg off and discard. Next cut off the neck and wings. 
Break the breast bone and cut in two lengthwise. Then 
cut each of these halves in two crosswise. Break the back 
in two crosswise. Plunge in cold water drain but do not 
wipe. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, then dredge thickly 
with flour, having as much flour adhere to the chicken as 
possible. Cook slowly in fat, such as bacon, butter, salt 
pork, etc., until tender and well browned. This will re- 
quire about 3^ h for tender young chickens. If the chickens 
are not very tender, cook slowly until tender in water just 
below the boiling point, then dredge in flour and saute in 
butter to a golden brown, or prepare as for frying, but 
cook slowly in dripping pan with plenty of fat in the oven. 



MAY MENUS 309 

Gravy 

To 2 T of the fat in the pan in which the chicken was 
fried, add 2 T flour, brown well scraping up all the juices 
from the bottom of the pan, add slowly i c milk, boil a few 
m stirring all the time. Add salt and pepper if necessary 
and serve. 

Tomatoes with Cream Sauce 

Wipe, peel and slice 3 solid tomatoes. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour and saute to a golden brown 
in 3 T butter. Place on a hot platter and cover with i c 
hot Medium White Sauce (2 T flour). 

If fresh tomatoes cannot be secured use the canned whole 
tomatoes. 

Apple, Date and Celery Salad 

Wash and cut into small cubes i stalk of celery. Wash, 
seed and cut into small pieces 12 dates. Wash and pare 
2 apples and cut into cubes. Toss all togecher, cover with 
salad dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Mix I qt. thin cream with }i c sugar and i^ T vanilla. 
If desired 2 beaten eggs may be added to this. Strain and 
freeze using 3 parts ice to i of salt. 

Or the ice cream may be made by making a custard of 
2 c scalded milk i T flour, i c sugar, ys t salt, and i egg 
beaten slightly. Cook over hot water for 20 m, stirring 
constantly until the mixture is well thickened. When cool 
add I pt. thin cream, 2 T vanilla, then freeze. Pack with 
salt and ice and let stand for several h before using. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make and freeze the ice cream immediately after break- 
fast. If the second recipe is used make the custard on 
Saturday so that it will be thoroughly cold. 

Three-quarter h before dinner wash, pare and cook, 5 
potatoes ; also at this time cook 3 beets and 2 eggs for the 
salad for supper. Dredge the chicken, cleaned and cut 
up the preceding day, with flour, and start cooking in a 
covered frying pan. Peel and slice the tomatoes, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and let stand while making the White 
Sauce. Prepare the ingredients for the salad, put together 



310 LESSONS IN COOKING 

with the salad dressing, serve on lettuce leaves and set 
away in a cool place until needed. Now saute the tomatoes, 
and while they are browning, drain and mash the potatoes, 
reserving i whole one for the salad for supper, then place 
the potatoes in a hot serving dish. Remove the chicken to 
a hot platter and make the gravy. Pour the sauce over the 
tomatoes on a hot platter, and serve the dinner. If desired 
the salad may be placed on the table at the beginning of 
the meal. 

The macaroons should be placed on a plate ready for 
passing when the ice cream is served. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 195 

COLD BOILED HAM BEET SALAD 

WHITE CAKE WITH MOCHA FROSTING 

COCOA 

Beet Salad 

Cut 3 cold boiled beets into ^ inch cubes. Add i cold 
boiled potato cubed, ^ c celery diced, and 2 hard cooked 
eggs sliced. Mix all together, cover with salad dressing 
and serve. 

Cocoa 

Use 3 c milk, 2 T powdered cocoa, 2 T sugar, i t corn- 
starch, yi t salt, I c boiling water, i t vanilla, p 13. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 15 m before supper time, make the cocoa, and 
while heating make the salad and arrange in a salad bowl 
garnished with lettuce or parsley. Place the cold boiled 
ham on a plate, cut the cake and place both on the table. 
Beat the cocoa well, pour into a chocolate pot, and serve the 
supper. 



MAY MENUS 311 

MAY BREAKFAST 

Lesson 196 

STRAWBERRIES AU NATUREL 
LAMB CHOPS POTATO PUFFS 

MINT AND GREEN PEA JELLY 

HOT ROLLS 

WAFFLES MAPLE SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Table Decoration 

Let the decorations be, if possible, in wild flowers. Dog- 
wood, May flowers, trillia, hepatica, trailing arbutus, violets, 
anemones, etc., are all In bloom at this time of the year in 
different parts of the country. Let the arrangement be 
careless and graceful, with delicate vines, if they can be 
secured, running from the center and outlining the plates. 

Strawberries au Naturel 

Select very large, perfect berries, wash and drain, leav- 
ing the hulls on. Place in the center of the plate a small 
cup containing powdered sugar. This cup may be one of 
the dainty paper models, or if possible for this special occa- 
sion, made of green leaves folded and pinned in shape. 
Around the cup lay a circle of the strawberries, with the 
hulls toward the edge of the plate. If they can be secured, 
large leaves may be laid on the plates instead of paper 
doilies. The strawberries are taken up by the hulls, dipped 
in the sugar, and eaten. 

Lamb Chops 

Select rib chops and have the butcher French them; 
wipe with a damp cloth and broil either in a broiler or on 
top the stove in a frying-pan. Remove to a hot platter, 
dust with salt and pepper, and spread with butter. If 
desired, the fancy paper frills may be slipped over the bone 
ends, or a sprig of parsley may be twisted around it. 

Potato Puffs 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, add to them i c mashed pota^ 
toes, ^ c flour mixed and sifted with }^ t salt and i t 
baking powder. Beat the whites of 2 eggs stiff and fold 
into the mixture. Drop from the tip of a teaspoon into deep 
hot fat and fry to a delicate brown. Drain on brown paper. 



312 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Mint and Green Pea Jelly 

Chop very fine enough mint leaves to make J^ c ; add ^ 
c boiling water and 6 T sugar, cover closely and let stand 
y2 h. Soak 2 T gelatine m ]/> c cold water ^ h, then dis- 
solve in ^ c boiling water. To the mint mixture add the 
juice of I lemon, i T vinegar, i t salt, y% t pepper, and 
the gelatine. Strain into a mould and chill. When slightly 
thickened, add i c small green peas, cooked. Mix well, 
smooth, chill thoroughly, and when firm turn out and cut 
into cubes. Serve with the lamb chops. 

Hot Rolls 

Reheat Luncheon Rolls (p. 290) made the preceding day, 
and serve with the chops. 

Virginia Waffles 

Cook 3^ c white cornmeal in i^ c boiling water for 
20 m. Add iy2 Q. milk and 3 T sugar, 3 c flour, i^ T 
baking powder, i^ T salt, sifted together. Then add the 
yolks of 2 eggs beaten light and 3 T melted butter. Cut and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Cook on a 
waffle iron. Serve with maple syrup. 

Preparing the Breakfast 

Cook the cornmeal for the waffles, and while cooking look 
over the berries, wash and arrange on a plate with the 
hulls toward the edge, around the little cup of powdered 
sugar in the center. Prepare the potato puff mixture, hav- 
ing the fat for frying heating while doing so; then wipe 
the chops and pan broil. When browned on both sides, 
lower the flames, and cook slowly for 5-7 m. During this 
time fry the potato puffs. While they are draining cut the 
Mint Jelly, made the preceding day, into cubes. Reheat the 
rolls, then make the coffee and mix the Virginia Waffles. 
Serve the fruit, then the lamb chops with the mint cubes, 
and the potato puffs. Cook the waffles just before serving 
and send piping hot to the table with the maple syrup and 
the coffee. 



MAY MENUS 313 

DIET FOR THE SICK 

Diet for the sick and convalescent is usually divided into 
four classes — namely, liquid, soft, light, and general. 

Liquid diet includes milk, broth, cream soup, eggnog, 
plain gelatine, ice cream, ices, fruit juices, etc. 

Soft diet, in addition to the liquid, is composed of gruels, 
well cooked cereals, such as oatmeal, cream of wheat, farina, 
etc., milk and cream toast, soft cooked eggs, custards, etc. 

Light diet contains no meat except breast of chicken, 
sweetbreads, brains, fish, oysters ; and for vegetables, baked, 
mashed and creamed potatoes, spinach, lettuce, vegetable 
souffles containing the pulp but not the fibrous parts of 
vegetables, fruits, and most light desserts. Of course, rich 
pastry and puddings are excluded absolutely. 

The general diet is about the same as the light, except 
that the more easily digested meats are included. Never 
give pork to a patient. Fried meats also are to be avoided. 

While ordinarily the diet of a patient in charge of a phy- 
sician will be ordered by the latter, nevertheless the house- 
mother should have some idea of what is proper to give. 
First of all, keep this fact in mind: that a person sick in 
bed needs little food, and that in most cases if the stomach 
is given a rest convalescence soon follows. Also remember 
that during illness all the organs are necessarily weakened 
to a certain extent so that very easily digested food should 
be given, thus requiring the minimum amount of work for 
assimilation. 

Serving — the Tray 

Have the tray covered with a snowy napkin and every- 
thing about it as dainty, clean and attractive as possible, 
remembering always that with a patient appearance counts 
for a great deal. Whenever one can, without harm to the 
invalid, give such foods as he likes and wants. Serve in 
small quantities, in an attractive way and with a harmoniz- 
ing color scheme. For instance, one might have a light 
diet tray consisting of chicken broth, a small piece of breast 
of chicken, mashed potato, cranberry jelly, bread and butter 
and baked custard. Pour the soup into a hot soup bowl and 
set in the center of the front of the tray, with the knife and 
two spoons on the right and the fork on the left. Have 



314 LESSONS IN COOKING 

the soup spoon the first of the spoons, beginning at the 
right. Over the soup bowl set the hot plate containing 
the chicken garnished with a sprig of parsley, a small mound 
of creamy mashed potato, and two or three cones of cran- 
berry jelly laid on a lettuce leaf. The cones may be made 
by cutting the jelly with a wet teaspoon inserted point down- 
ward and turned in the hand. The dark green of the pars- 
ley and red of the jelly contrast very prettily and make an 
attractive looking plate. 

At the right of the plate set a cup of tea or cocoa, or 
coffee, if allowed. At the left place the bread and butter 
plate with two small sandwiches made of very thin slices of 
bread from which the crusts have been removed, spread 
with butter and cut in diamond, circular or triangular 
shapes. Above the bread plate set the sauce dish with the 
mould of baked custard, above the soup bowl the small 
sugar bowl, creamer, and salt shaker — do not give pepper 
because of its irritating effects — and above the cup of tea 
set a glass of water. If the patient will drink milk, so much 
the better. Place the fresh napkin wherever there is a 
space for it. Cover the entire tray with a clean cloth and 
serve at once. When the appetite is poor, small portions 
are very much more tempting than large ones, which have 
a discouraging effect. 

Remove all traces of the meal as soon as the patient has 
finished, thus giving no opportunity for him to grow weary 
of looking at the food. Also keep him in ignorance of what 
he is to be given, thus letting the anticipation and surprise 
be a stimulant to his appetite. And, most important of all, 
be cheerful at all tim.es and keep your patient so, especially 
at meal times. 



MAY MENUS 



315 



MAY MENUS — COST AND FOOD VALUE — FOUR PERSONS 



Supplies — Cost 

6 lbs. Flour $0.21 

1 lb. Cornmeal 04 

3 lbs. Bread 15 

% lb Rice 04 

% pkg. Puffed Rice 021/2 

1/4 pkg. Cream of Wheat . . .04 

1/4 pkg. Oatmeal 02% 

61/2 lbs. Sugar 39 

% pt. Molasses 04 

1/2 pt. Jelly 10 

V2 pt. Tomato Preserves.. .10 

1 lb. Round Steak 14 

4 lbs. Pot Roast 56 

lyo lbs. Lamb Stew 27 

1 Beef longue 16 

2 lbs. Veal Steak 32 

Vs lb. Bacon 03 

11/2 lbs. Lamb Chops 30 

3 lbs. Shad 45 

4 lbs. Chicken 64 

1/2 lb. Boiled Ham 15 

SVz doz. Egge @ 25c 88 

6 qts. Milk 48 

3 pts. Cream 60 

1 lb. Cheese 20 

3 lbs. Butter 96 

1/2 lb. Peanuts 06 

1/4 lb. English Walnuts... .10 

1 pk. Potatoes 40 

1 qt. Green Peas 15 

1 bunch Asparagus 15 

7 Tomatoes 30 

9 Beets 15 

1 pt. Brussels Sprouts. . . .15 

1 head Lettuce 10 

12 Onions 15 

9 Carrots 15 

4 Cucumbers 25 

1 bunch Celery 10 

% lb. Dates 02 

% pk. Apples 10 

3 pts. Strawberries 30 

4 Lemons 10 

2 Oranges 06 

1 can Peaches 28 

V> can Plums 12 

^ can Orated Pineapple. . .04 

1 oz. Cocoa 04 

% lb. Coffee 22 

1/16 lb. Tea 04 

2 Yeast Cakes 02 



Total 

9,840 

1,739 

3,615 

816 

730 

708 

852 

12,090 

666 

1,000 

800 

1,110 

4,440 

1,060 

800 

960 

400 

1,992 

1,410 

1,600 

800 

3,332 

3,900 

2,730 

2,056 

10,815 

968 

800 

2,247 

1,000 

200 

200 

300 

200 

50 

300 

300 

150 

50 

362 

440 

250 

144 

170 

400 

188 

50 

144 







Starch 


Protein 


Fat 


& Sugar 


1,180 


294 


8,366 


157 


191 


1,391 


468 


219 


2,928 


72 


8 


736 


80 


7 


643 


106 


36 


566 


154 


60 


638 
12,090 


3 




663 
1,000 


4 


26 


776 


400 


710 




1,600 


2,840 




572 


488 




376 


424 




404 


556 




24 


376 




596 


1,.396 




561 


849 




1,264 


336 




152 


648 




1,067 


2,265 


^ 


741 


2,028 


1,131 


136 


2,348 


246 


516 


1.500 


40 


54 


10,761 




192 


610 


166 


80 


664 


56 


247 


22 


1,978 


230 


270 


500 


36 


126 


38 


30 


32 


138 


6 


69 


225 


46 


30 


124 


13 


7 


30 


39 


15 


246 


30 


24 


246 


27 


15 


108 


12 


2 


36 


7 


25 


330 


13 


31 


396 


25 


37 


188 


12 


20 


112 


10 


6 


154 


16 


8 


376 


14 


2 


172 


2 


3 


45 


24 


76 


44 



$10.95 75,574 11,798 30,454 36,922 

Food Units per Day — 10.796. Food Units per Day per Person — 2,699. 
Cost of Food per Day— $1.56. Cost per Day per Person — $0.39. 
Of the Total Food Value 15% Is Protein, 38% Is Fat, and 47% Is 
Starch and Sugar. 



316 LESSONS IN COOKING 

SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING THE COST OF 
THE MAY MENUS 

Unless butter is low in price, use substitutes in cooking. 
Use top of milk instead of cream for coffee and cereal — 
cream is always a luxury, except in certain favored localities. 

In L. 175, omit the broiled beef patties. In L. 177, serve 
plain sliced cucumbers instead of a la Poulette, and omit the 
apple salad. In L. 178, omit the cereal, cream and sugar, 
and in L. 179, the cheese balls. In L. 180, omit the peas, 
and in L. 181, the coddled apples. In L. 183, omit the 
sponge cake, and in L. 184, the egg timbales. In L. 186, 
omit the pickled beets and substitute canned peaches for the 
peach canapes. In L. 187, omit the canned plums, and in 
L. 188, use plain bread and butter instead of the Potato 
Biscuits. In L. 189, substitute 2 lbs. boiled salmon for the 
shad, and omit the Brussels sprouts. In L. 192, omit both 
the souffle and wilted lettuce, but serve the shortcake with 
cream. In L. 193, omit the cheese omelet, and in L. 194, 
the tomatoes with cream sauce. In L. 195, omit the boiled 
ham, and serve iced tea instead of cocoa. 

ESTIMATED EEDUCTIONS 

IVz lbs. Butter. ..$0.45 less Pickled Beets 10 

1% lbs. Oleo 27 $0.18 1/2 can Plums 12 

1 qt. Cream 40 Potato Biscuits 12 

3 qts. Milk 24 3 lbs. Shad $0.45 less 

1 lb. Round Steak 14 2 lbs. Salmon 30 15 

Cucumbers, P o u - Cream Sauce 06 

lette $0.15 less Brussels Sprouts 15 

Cucumbers, Plain . . .12 03 Onion Souffle 21 

Apple Salad 09 Wilted Lettuce 12 

Oatmeal, Cream and Cheese Omelet 12 

Sugar 06 Tomatoes with Cream 

Cheese Balls 20 Sauce 20 

Peas, 1 qt 15 Boiled Ham 15 

Coddled Apples 05 Cocoa, less Tea 11 

Sponge Cake 20 

Egg Timbales 12 $3.47 

Original total cost $10.95 

Reduction 3.47 



New total cost per week $7.48 

New cost per day 1.07 

New cost per day, per person 0.27 



JUNE MENUS 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

PART X 



FRUIT PRESERVATION 

The prevention of decay or preservation is accomplished 
by sterilization — this is brought about in two ways — 

I — By kilhng all bacteria, molds and other organisms by 
means of heat and enclosing in tight jars. 

2 — By the use of a medium, such as a strong sugar or 
acid solution, in which bacteria will not live. 
Utensils 

The following list of utensils will be necessary for con- 
venient and effective work. Sauce pans, bowls, spoons, 
colander, fruit press, dipper and funnel of porcelain, 
enamel or aluminum should be provided as tin or iron 
should never be used with fruit; jelly bags made of loosely 
woven flannel or double cheese cloth, glass measuring cup 
and a scale, jelly glasses, fruit jars with new rubbers. 

Have the jelly bag sewed to a ring (a wooden embroidery 
ring will do) and if convenience is desired a handle could 
be fastened to the ring, thus making it possible for one 
person to easily and quickly fill a jelly bag without fear of 
burning. An arm from which to suspend the jelly bag for 
draining should be in a convenient place above the table or 
sink. A bird cage hook which can be laid against the wall 
when not in use is good for this purpose. 

The best style of preserve jars have a glass cover and 
close with a spring, but the improved Mason jars with glass 
cover are satisfactory. Pints are better than quarts for a 
small family. 
Time and Manner of Preserving 

The manner of preserving depend greatly on the con- 
dition of the fruit. Consequently the fruit should be se- 
lected according to the process one wishes to employ or the 
process should be decided upon according to the condition 
of the fruit. For instance if one wishes to make jelly select 
green or slightly underripe fruit, but if the fruit on hand 
is overripe it can be made into jam or marmalade. 

Copyright, 1912, Home Economics Association. 

317 



318 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



Sterilizing Jars 

Fruit jars and jelly glasses should be thoroughly cleansed 
and sterilized before using. To sterilize put into a pan of 
cold water and bring slowly to the boiling point and boil at 
least 5 minutes. Let stand in the boiling water until ready 





PRESERVE JARS 



"LIGHTNING" 



IMPROVED "MASON" 



to fill. Sterilize the covers of the jars by dropping into the 
boiling water just before using. 

CANNING FRUIT 

There are two processes of canning, one by cooking the 
fruit and then putting it into the cans, the other by cooking 
it in the cans. 

The general proportions to use for canning are i part 
sugar, 2 parts water, to 4 parts fruit. 

Select fruit when it is at its best — ripe but not overripe, 
firm and free from blemishes and bruises. 

Preparation of the Fruit 

Small fruits should be washed thoroughly before being 
freed from the hulls, because then there is no open surface 
from which the juice can be extracted. Then remove from 
the stem, or hulls, and drain. Large fruits should be washed, 
pared, left whole or cut in halves as desired and the stones 



JUNE MENUS 319 

or cores removed, any bruised or decayed portions should 
be cut out. Peaches and plums should be scalded to remove 
the skins easily. Use a silver plated knife in paring as a 
steel knife will stain fruits. If the fruit is one that will 
discolor easily when exposed to the air and cannot be used 
immediately put into an enamelled vessel, surround with 
waxed paper, cover closely thus completely excluding air. 

Process I 

Weigh the fruit, then proportion the sugar and water by 
weight accordingly, i part sugar, and i part water to 4 
parts small fruit — strawberries, grapes, etc. or i part sugar, 
2 parts water to 4 parts large fruit — pears, peaches, etc. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and water, boil 5 minutes and 
skim if necessary. Cook a small quantity of the fruit at a 
time in the syrup until tender and transfer to the sterilized 
jar. Fill the jar to overflowing with the syrup and screw 
on the cover, always using new rubbers. 

Since the syrup used in canning is not a sufficiently strong 
solution to prevent the growth of bacteria, every precaution 
must be taken to insure perfect sterilization and to keep air 
tight. 

Process II 

Prepare the fruit, weigh and make syrup as in Process I. 
Place fruit in the sterilized jars as fast as prepared, set them 
on a wooden rack or several folds of paper or cloth in a 
sauce pan, boiler or steamer, half filled with warm water. 
Fill each jar with the syrup to overflowing. Adjust new 
rubbers and screw the covers down lightly. Bring water to 
the boihng point and let boil from 15 to 30 minutes accord- 
ing to the size of the fruit. If necessary add more hot 
syrup or boiling water to fill the jars again to overflowing. 
Screw the covers on tight, and let stand in the water to cool. 
Tighten the covers again, invert the jars and let stand for a 
few hours to see that no juice is forced out under the cover, 
thus showing that it is air tight. Keep in a cook dark place. 

PRESERVED FRUITS 

For preserving, the syrup is made much stronger, and 
fruit that is less perfect as well as riper can be used. Pre- 
pare the fruit as in canning. 



320 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Proportions 

The general proportion for preserving are i part frmi wO 
^ to I part sugar and ^ to 3^ part water by weight. In 
the small fruits use from ^ to ^ parts water according 
to the juiciness. The larger fruits require more water, 
usually ^ part. 

The same methods are used for preserving as for canning, 
with the additional one of "sun preserves." 

With Processes I or II make the strong syrup and pro- 
ceed as in canned fruits. Hard fruits such as quince and 
winter pears should be cooked in water first until almost 
tender. Then that water used to make the syrup, and the 
fruit finished off in the syrup. Otherwise the syrup darkens, 
gets heavy and strong flavored before the fruit is cooked. 

Preserves are always put up in small jars or glasses for 
they are so rich that small quantities only are used at a time. 
Cook only a small portion of the fruit at a time in the syrup 
thus preserving the shape as perfectly as possible. 
Sunshine Preserves 

For this method the fruit is washed and brought to the 
boiling point, then an equal quantity by weight of sugar is 
added, and the whole simmered without stirring from 5 to 
10 m. It is then spread on large platters, covered with 
glass and set in the hot sunshine for about 2 days, that is 
letting it have the sunshine for about 24 h all together. At 
the end of that time it is put into sterilized jars without re- 
heating. By this method of preservation the fruit keeps its 
shape and retains its original flavor very much better. 

The best fruits for this are strawberries, cherries, white 
and red currants, ripe gooseberries, red and black rasp- 
berries, and blackberries. Pineapple and pears cut into half 
inch cubes may also be used, either alone or combined with 
any small fruits. Pineapple and strawberries are an espe- 
cially pleasing combination, as well as pears and cherries. 

Honey may be substituted for sugar in Sunshine Pre- 
serves, using it in the proportion of i part fruit to ^ part 
strained honey, instead of equal parts of each as with sugar. 

JELLIES 

In making jelly the pure juice of the fruit is extracted 
then cooked with sugar till it reaches the jelly stage. 



JUNE MENUS 321 

Underripe fruit is the best to select for jelly. In some 
cases green fruit, such as green grapes, may be used. 
Pectin 

The element in fruit juice that causes it to jelly is called 
pectin, but to make a perfect jelly the juice must also be 
acid. Certain fruit juices such as peach, while they contain 
pectin will not jelly because of the lack of acid. This can 
often be supplied by adding some fruit acid such as citric, 
or tartaric acids. 
Proportions 

The amount of sugar varies somewhat with the acidity 
of the fruit, but in general the proportions are three-fourths 
to one part sugar, to one part fruit juice. 

Fruit juice can be made to jelly without the addition of 
any sugar, but it requires long boiling, will be dark in color 
and unpalatable. An over proportion of sugar however will 
keep it from jellying, making it syrupy or may result in the 
formation of crystals. 
Time of Boiling 

The time of boiling depends on the concentration of the 
fruit juice, the proportion of sugar, and pectin, and in all 
probability the degree of acidity. 

If the fruit juice is very dilute it should be boiled before 
the sugar is added, to concentrate it, so that the cooking 
after the sugar is added will not be too long. But the con- 
centration should not be so great that the boiling after the 
sugar is added is not long enough to change the form of 
sugar. Too long (an hour or more) or too short, (5 m) 
boiling may result in the formation of sugar crystals. 

JAMS, BUTTERS AND MARMALADES 

Jams, butters and marmalades are made from using the 
entire pulp of the fruit and either some or all of the juice. 
Very often after the first juice is drained off for jelly mak- 
ing, the pulp that is left is made up into jams, butters or 
marmalade. 
Proportions 

^ to I part sugar to i part fruit. 
Process 

The process of making jam, butters or marmalade may 
differ slightly for different fruits but in general the pulp is 



322 LESSONS IN COOKING 

pressed through a sieve coarse enough to retain seeds, etc. 
Then this expressed pulp is cooked down, the sugar being 
added a httle at a time and spices when desired, added 
toward the end of the process. The cooking is continued 
until the desired consistency is reached, jams and butter 
being thick enough to drop from the spoon, marmalades 
thinner. All can be packed in small jars or large crocks. 

SPECIAL RECIPES 

The foregoing directions are complete and applicable to 
all general work in the preservation of fruits. Take for 
instance canned peaches — according to directions given the 
process would be as follows: 

Canned Peaches 

Sterilize jars and utensils. Weigh the fruit and make a 
syrup, using ^4 the weight of the peaches in sugar and j^^ 
the weight in water. (A pint of either sugar or water 
weighs about a pound.) When the syrup comes to a boil, 
skim it if necessary and remove the kettle to a place where 
the syrup will keep hot but not boil. 

Scald a part of the peaches, remove the skins, cut in half 
and remove some of the stones, leaving a few to improve 
the flavor, add the prepared peaches to the syrup and bring 
to a boil, skim carefully and boil gently for about ten min- 
utes or until the fruit is tender and can be pierced easily 
with a silver fork ; then place in sterilized jars. 

While the first lot of peaches is cooking, prepare the sec- 
ond lot and add to the kettle as soon as the first lot is re- 
moved, cooking as before. The size of the preserving ket- 
tle determines the number of peaches to be cooked at one 
time. They should not be more than one layer deep. 

When all the peaches are cooked and in the jars, fill the 
jars with syrup and screw the covers on tight. If there is 
not sufficient syrup to completely fill the jars, a little more 
should be made, and if there is syrup left over, it may be 
placed in a preserve jar and used for sauces. If the peaches 
are not very tart a little lemon juice added to the syrup will 
improve the flavor greatly. 

When no scales are at hand the weight of fruit may be 
estimated at about i}i lbs. to the quart. 



JUNE MENUS 323 

The following are a few special recipes where combina- 
tions are made and different flavorings used. 

Canned Quince and Apples 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core an equal number of apples 
and quinces. Cook the quince in clear water for 25 m at 
simmering temperature, then use this water to make the 
syrup in which cook the apple and quince together, follow- 
ing the direction as given. 

Canned Pineapple 

Cut pineapple into half-inch slices, pare and remove eyes 
from each slice and then cut the slices into cubes, discarding 
the core. Follow direction for canning. 

If preferred they may be shredded or ground. 

Strawberry and Cherry Preserves 

Prepare fruit, use in equal portions or one-third cherry to 
two-thirds strawberry, and follow directions for sunshine 
preserves. 

Gingered Pears 

Cut ys pound of ginger root as small as possible, cover 
with water and let simmer for about i h, or longer if neces- 
sary to make a strong decoction. Strain, add enough water 
to make 2 c. Slice 4 lemons very thin, carefully discarding 
all seeds and cook in the ginger water until the skin is ten- 
der. Then add 43^ pounds sugar, and cook 5 m. Add 6 
pounds of pears, cored, pared and cut into 8ths lengthwise. 
Follow directions for preserves. 

Rhubarb and Fig Preserves 

Cut 4 pounds rhubarb into inch pieces and i lb. figs into 
strips. Add the juice and grated rind of 2 lemons, ^ lb. 
candied orange peel and 3^ lb. sugar. Put all into a pre- 
serving kettle and let stand over night. Cook slowly about 
I h or until fig and lemon rind are tender. Stir occasionally. 

Tomato Preserves 

Select either small red or little yellow pear tomatoes. 
Scald and peel 4 lb. tomatoes using 2 c water. Cook 4 lem- 
ons cut in thin slices discarding the seeds, in 2 c water for 
20 or 25 m or until tender. Then add 3 lb. sugar. Boil 5 m 
and skim. Then follow directions for preserving. If the 



324 LESSONS IN COOKING 

syrup is too thin after tomatoes are cooked, boil down to 
the desired consistency. 

If the tomatoes are sHced cook all together with the lem- 
ons and sugar until of the right consistency. 

Apple and Mint Jelly 

Wash and cut into small pieces 4 lbs. of Greening apples, 
and put into a granite sauce pan. Wash and chop quite fine 
enough mint to fill one cup, and add to the apples. Add 
enough water to keep from burning, and cook until the 
apples are tender and fall to pieces. Then strain, pressing 
the bag to extract the juice. Use ^ c sugar to each c of 
juice. Cook until about ready to jelly, then add 4 t lemon 
juice, and enough color paste to make a delicate green, and 
pour into glasses. 

Creme de Menthe cordial may be used if the fresh mint 
cannot be obtained, adding enough to give the desired flavor. 

Combination for Jellies 

For combinations of fruits that are ripe at different times, 
such as apple and raspberry, strawberry and apple, black- 
berry and quince, currants and peaches, extract the juice of 
the fruit that is ripe first, bring to the boil, put into sterilized 
jars or bottles and seal. Then when the other fruit is ripe 
make the jelly according to directions given above for jelly 
making. 

Apple and quince in equal parts make an excellent jelly. 

Rose Geranium Jelly 

Make apple jelly, place a rose geranium leaf in the bottom 
of each glass, and pour on the hot jelly. The geranium leaf 
will rise to the top. If one desires a delicate flavor remove 
the leaf at once. A very strong flavor, too strong to be de- 
sirable, will result if the leaf is left in the glass. 

Grape Jam 

Wash the grapes and remove from the stems, separate the 
skin from the pulp, and cook the latter until the seeds are 
freed. Then strain through a coarse sieve, pressing all 
through but the seeds. Then add to the skins, heat to the 
boiling point, and add sugar in the proportion of ^^ part to 
I part of fruit. Cook until it thickens slightly on a cold 
dish. 



JUNE MENUS 325 

Tomato Marmalade 

Remove the skins from 4 lbs. ripe tomatoes and slice. 
Slice 4 lemons very thin, being careful to remove all the 
seeds, and add to the tomatoes with j/2 c seeded raisins. 
Bring slowly to the simmering point and then add 3 lbs. 
sugar. Let simmer until of the consistency of marmalade, 
pour into sterlized jars and seal. 

A medium time of boiling, (from 8 to 30 m) gives the 
best results. With juice extracted with the aid of little or 
no water, such as grape, currant, etc., bring it to the boiling 
point, boil about 5 m, then add the sugar heated through, 
and boil until it gives the jelly test. 

Having the sugar hot prevents the cooling down of the 
fruit juice, which would make the cooking process longer. 

To heat the sugar, put it in a large dripping pan, and set 
in a warm oven, stir from time to time, heating it gradually 
without melting. 

Test for Jelly 

The quick test, and one which proves to be very accurate 
after experience, is the sheeting (that is, dropping in a 
whole transparent sheet) from the spoon. 

The cooling test should be used by the inexperienced per- 
son, or if there is any doubt. This consists in putting a 
spoonful of the jelly on a sauce dish, and cooling quickly on 
ice or otherwise to see if it jellies. In using the latter test, 
which necessarily takes a few minutes, the kettle of jelly 
should be set back so that the cooking is retarded, as those 
few minutes might carry it beyond the right point. 

In using a thermometer the best temperature to stop the 
boiling ranges from 221° to 223° F. If the jelly does not 
set quickly, place it uncovered in the sun for a few hours. 

Sealing Jellies, Jams and Marmalades 

The jelly should be poured into hot sterilized glasses, and 
when cold sealed with melted paraffine. The most convenient 
way to use paraffine is to melt it in a small coffee pot and 
pour from the spout. The coffee pot should have a tight lid. 

When the jelly is used, remove the cake of paraffine, rinse 
off and drop into the pot and use again when wanted. 



JUNE MENUS 

Monday Lesson 196 

BREAKFAST 

SLICED BANANAS 

PUFFED WHEAT AND GRAPENUTS 

BROILED BACON BREAD AND BUTTER 

COFFEE 

Puffed Wheat and Grapenuts 

In the bottom of the cereal bowls place 3 T grapenuts. 
Over this spread 4 T puffed wheat which has been freshly 
crisped and serve with cream and sugar. 

Bacon 

Place thinly sliced bacon in a cold frying pan, heat 
slowly, then saute to a delicate brown on both sides, turning 
often until done. 

Preparing the Meal 

Start the bacon to cooking over a very slow fire, then 
make the coffee. While these are cooking slice the bananas 
and place with a pitcher of cream on the table. Arrange 
the cereals in the bowls, then cut the bread and butter. 
Serve the fruit, then the cereal, then the bacon, bread and 
butter and coft'ee. Lower the flame under the bacon and 
coffee while the cereal is being served. 

For June Menus instead of a summary of the cost and food value of 
the meals for the whole week, we give approximate cost and food value 
of each separate dish and meal when served for four persons. The fol- 
lowing are the prices used in these calculations: Flour, 3%c per lb. or 
about Ic a cup; bread, 5c per lb.; sugar, 5 1/20 per lb.; butter, 28c per 
lb. ; milk, 8c per qt. ; cream, 32c per qt. ; eggs, 20c per doz. ; coffee, 32c 
per lb. ; potatoes, 45c per peck ; rice, 8c per lb. ; spring vegetables, 10c 
per qt. 

These prices are somewhat lower than current prices in large cities and 
their suburbs, but they are higher than prices to be obtained in many 
towns and villages, and so represent about the average. The quantities 
of bread, butter, sugar, etc., taken have been determined by weighing 
amounts commonly used. 

Monday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

2 Bananas $0.04 200 

4% oz. Cereal 045 100 

6.4 oz. Cream for Cereal and Coffee. .062 400 

2 oz. Sugar— Cereal and Coffee 007 233 

2 oz. Coffee 04 

4 oz. Bacon 064 800 

4 oz. Bread 0125 300 

1.5 oz. Butter 026 300 

Total Breakfast $0,296 2,333 

326 



JUNE MENUS 327 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Monday Lesson 197 

SPANISH OMELET BREAD AND BUTTER 

MOLASSES COOKIES BOILED RICE — CREAM AND SUGAR 

Spanish Omelet 

Cut 3 medium sized onions fine, and cook in 2 T butter 5 
m, then add ^ can tomatoes and cook until the onions are 
tender. Make a roux of i T butter and 2 T flour, add to the 
tomatoes, and cook, stirring constantly for 5 m. 

Make a foamy omelet, separating 4 eggs, beat yolks 
lightly, add 4 T milk or water, ^ t salt, and a dash of pep- 
per. Beat the whites of the eggs stifif, cut and fold into the 
yolks, turn all into a buttered omelet pan, spread evenly, 
cover, and cook until firm, over a very slow fire. If it is 
brown underneath, and the center does not seem done, set 
in the oven for a few minutes. Fold over, turn out onto a 
hot platter, and pour the tomatoes and onions around it. 
Molasses Cookies 

Mix and sift 3 c flour, 2 t ginger, i t salt, and i}i t soda. 
To I c molasses add ^ c melted shortening, then add i c 
sour milk. Combine with the flour mixture and beat well. 
Add about i c flour, or enough to make mixture of right 
consistency to drop from the spoon easily. Chill, then roll 
out, a portion at a time, on a floured board to 34 inch in 
thickness, shape with a floured round cutter, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 
Boiled Rice 

Blanch ^ c rice by covering with 3 c cold water ; put over 
the fire stirring occasionally while heating to prevent its 
sticking; boil 5 m, drain on a sieve, rinse with cold water. 
Return to a double boiler, add 2 c milk and cook until the 
rice is tender and the milk is all absorbed. This will require 
about I h. Serve for dessert with cream and sugar. Re- 
serve 13^ c for use the following day. 
Preparing the Meal 

About I h before lunch blanch the rice and start to cook- 
ing. Make and bake the molasses cookies if not on hand. 
Twenty m before time for serving, make the Spanish om- 
elet, and while cooking cut the bread and butter and place 
on the table. The molasses cookies may be set on a side 



328 LESSONS IN COOKING 

table until needed, or else placed at once on the table. When 

done serve the omelet, then the boiled rice, cream and sugar. 

Immediately after lunch make the soft custard for the fruit 

cream for dinner. 

Monday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Spanish Omelet $0.20 995 

Rice Dessert 085 1,080 

5.5 oz. Bread and Butter 038 600 

Molasses Cookies (14 Recipe) 037 816 

Total Luncheon $0.36 3,491 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 198 

DEVILLED STEAK 

STEAMED POTATOES STRING BEANS — BUTTER SAUCE 

FRUIT CREAM CAKE 

Devilled Steak 

Melt 2 T butter in a frying pan, slice one onion into it and 
saute gently until golden brown in color, then remove from 
the butter. Cut i flank steak into pieces 3 inches long, and 
2 inches wide, dredge them lightly in 2 T flour, and saute in 
the butter until well browned. Remove the meat from the 
frying pan,_ add i t salt, >^ t pepper, }i t paprika, i t mus- 
tard, 3 t vinegar, and the flour remaining after dredging 
the pieces of meat. Mix all together and add 2 c boiling 
water. Replace the steak in the pan, cover closely, and sim- 
mer gently i h or until the steak is tender. Dish onto a hot 
platter and pour the gravy around it. 
Steamed Potatoes 

Wash and scrape 6 medium sized potatoes, place in a 
steamer, set over the meat, cover closely and steam until 
tender, about i h. 
String Beans 

Break off the ends from the string beans, removing all 
the strings at the same time, then break into i inch lengths. 
Wash well, cover with cold water, and bring quickly to the 
boiling point. Drain, cover with hot water, adding i t salt 
for each quart of water, boil gently until tender, 40 to 60 m. 
The first quick boiling and draining removes the strong 
flavor string beans often have, and hence a more delicate 
flavor results. Use just enough water to keep from burning. 
Drain, add 2 T butter for i quart of beans, dash of pepper, 
shake well in the pan, and serve at once. 



JVNE MENUS 329 

Fruit Cream 

Make a soft custard and pour it over fresh fruit. Let 
stand until ice cold, then serve with a meringue or whipped 
cream. 

Soft Custard 

.Scald 2 c milk to which have been added ^ c sugar, and 
% t salt. Beat 3 egg yolks slightly and add to the hot milk, 
first thinning and heating the egg gradually by adding a lit- 
tle of the hot milk to it. Cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly, until the mixture coats the spoon. 

Note — If custard cooks too long and consequently curdles, 
pour it at once into a cold bowl and beat vigorously, prefer- 
ably with a Dover egg beater. This will often bring back 
the custard to its original smoothness. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 13^ h before dinner time prepare the meat for the 
devilled steak and start to cooking. Wash and scrape the 
potatoes and set over the meat to steam. Then wash and 
break up the beans and cook. 

Ten m before the dinner is done, cut the bread and butter 

and set on the table, serve the dessert, made immediately 

after lunch and chilled, and place on a side table. Drain 

the string beans, season with butte* and pepper and pour 

into a hot serving dish, take up the potatoes, and put the 

meat on a hot platter, pouring the gravy around it. Serve 

the dinner. 

Monday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

11/2 lbs. Devilled Steak f 0.215 1,551 

21.4 oz. Steamed Potatoes 04 GOO 

16.6 oz. String Beans 117 300 

Fruit Cream 114 1,568 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner .?0.524 4,619 

Total for Day (4) 1.18 10,443 

Per Person per Day 295 2,610 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 199 

ORANGES OR STRAWBERRIES 

BREAKFAST STEW RICE MUFFINS 

COFFEE 

Breakfast Stew 

Chop fine what meat remains from dinner the preceding 



33u LESSONS IN COOKING 

evening. There should be i c. Melt 2 T butter in a frying 
pan, add 3 T flour, and stir until well browned. Then add 
gradually, stirring all the time, 2 c hot water or soup stock, 
or milk. Season with ^ t salt, dash of pepper, y^ t ground 
cloves. Stir until boiling, add the chopped meat, heat 
thoroughly and serve on squares of toast. Garnish with 
slices of lemon. 
Rice Muffins 

Sift together thoroughly i}i c flour, 34 t salt, and i^^ t 
baking powder. Add ^ c boiled rice, working in with the 
tips of the fingers, then add gradually ^ c milk, i well 
beaten egg, and 2 T melted butter. Fill muffin pans ^ full 
with the mixture and bake in a moderate oven 25 to 30 m. 
Preparing the Meal 

The first thing in the morning get out the ingredients and 
prepare the rice muffins. While baking prepare the oranges 
or berries for serving, then chop the meat and make the 
gravy for the stew. While cooking, make the coffee and 
toast, then add the meat to the gravy. 

Serve the fruit, in the meantime keeping the breakfast 
stew, coffee and rice muffins warm, then serve the rest of 
the breakfast. 

Make the junket and drop cakes immediately after break- 
fast, so that they will be cold for lunch. 

Tuesday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

2 Oranges $0.06 200 

Breakfast Stew 059 675 

Toast for Stew 012 300 

Rice Muffins 058 933 

1.5 oz. Butter 026 300 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Coffee 031 200 

Sugar for Coffee ( % oz.) 001 78 

Total Breakfast $0,288 2,686 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 200 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

LETTUCE SALAD BREAD AND BUTTER 

JUNKET DROP CAKES 

Cheese Souffle 

Melt 2 T butter, add 2 T flour, }i t each salt, soda, and 
paprika and when well blended add ^ c strained stewed 
tomatoes ; boil 5 m, then add i c grated cheese and very 



JVNE MENUS 531 

gradually the beaten yolks of 3 eggs. When well mixed 
fold in the stififly beaten whites of the 3 eggs, then turn into 
a buttered baking dish, set in a pan of hot water, and bake 
until well puffed, firm and delicately browned — about 25 m. 
Serve immediately. 

If desired milk can be used in place of strained tomatoes. 
Lettuce Salad 

Wash well i head of lettuce, and break into small pieces. 
Cut 2 hard cooked eggs into quarters and add to the lettuce. 
Chill, cover with Salad Dressing (p. 29) and serve. 
Junket 

Crush I junket tablet and dissolve in i T cold water. Heat 
2 c milk to 100° F or lukewarm, add j/s c sugar, }i t salt, i t 
vanilla, and the dissolved junket tablet ; mix well, turn into 
a dish and let stand in a warm place until set, then chill. If 
desired it may be moulded in individual moulds. 
Drop Cakes 

Cream 5-^ c butter, add gradually ^ c sugar, and 2 eggs 
well beaten. Add }i c flour mixed and sifted with 3 t bak- 
ing-powder, }i t salt, and 5/2 t cinnamon; then add >4 c 
chopped nut meats, hickory or English walnuts, j4 c each 
currants and raisins, and ps c flour. Drop by spoonfuls i 
inch apart on a buttered sheet of heavy paper, or tin pan, 
and bake in a moderate oven about 15 to 20 m. The butter 
may be melted and added with the sugar and eggs to the 
flour mixture if desired to save time. These cakes contain- 
ing fruit and nuts as they do are very unlike those given on 

P-55- 

Preparing the Meal 

About ^, h before lunch make the cheese souffle and place 
in the oven. While baking, cook 2 eggs for the salad, then 
wash the lettuce and finish making the salad. Put some 
Drop Cakes made immediately after breakfast, on a plate 
and set on a side table. When the souffle is firm, serve the 
lunch. After lunch make the Rice Cream for Dinner, using 
I c cold cooked rice left from the preceding day. 

Tuesday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Cheese Souffle ?0.143 1,103 

Lettuce Salad 107 475 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Junket 048 766 

Drop Cakes ( Vi Recipe) 055 812 

Total Luncheon $0,391 3,756 



332 LESSONS IN COOKING 

DINNER 
Tuesday Lesson 201 

SPARERIBS OF PORK 

FRANCONIA POTATOES LIMA BEANS 

CUCUMBER AND RADISH SALAD 

RICE CREAM 

Spareribs Roasted 

Trim off the rough ends of the spareribs, crack across the 
middle of the ribs, rub with saU and sprinkle with pepper. 
Place in a dripping pan with water, allowing i pt. water to 
every 3 lbs. spareribs. Baste frequently, turning over once, 
so as to bake both sides equally until a golden brown. Cook 
until tender. This will require about i^ h for 3 lbs. ribs. 
Franconia Potatoes 

Pare and quarter 4 medium sized potatoes, parboil for 5 
m, drain and place in the roasting pan with the meat. Baste 
with the meat. 
Lima Beans 

Wash I pint young lima beans thoroughly; cover with 
boiling salted water, and cook until tender — 30 to 60 m. 
Drain, add 2 T butter, ^ t salt, dash of pepper and serve. 
Use as little water as possible, so as to avoid waste. If too 
much water has been used, reserve for use later in soups. 
Cucumber and Radish Salad 

Cut I large cucumber into small cubes, add an equal por- 
tion of radishes peeled and sliced or cut into cubes, and 2 t 
chopped onion ; mix with Salad Dressing, and serve on a let- 
tuce leaf. 
Rice Cream 

Scald 2 c milk, add ^ c sugar, and }i t salt. Mix i T 
cornstarch with ^ c cold milk and add to the hot milk, 
stirring constantly while mixing them. Cook 10 m. Separ- 
ate 2 eggs, beat the yolks slightly and add to the cornstarch. 
Cook 5 m. Remove from the fire and add i t vanilla. Put 
I c cooked rice in a pudding dish, pour the cream slowly on 
it, mixing it well into the rice. 

Make a meringue by beating the whites of the 2 eggs 
stiff and dry. Add 2 T sugar, beat well, flavor with l4 t 
vanilla and % t lemon extract. Drop in small spoonfuls 
over the top of the pudding. Brown delicately and serve 
cold. 



JUNE MENUS 333 

Preparing the Meal 

About i}i h before dinner time prepare the spareribs and 
place in the oven. Wash and pare 6 medium sized potatoes 
and place in the pan with the meat, allowing i h for their 
baking. Now wash and pick over i pt. lima beans and put 
on to cook in boiling salted water. 

While the beans are cooking make the cucumber and 
radish salad and set in a cool place until needed. 

A few m before serving the dinner, cut the bread and 

butter and place on the table, put out the pudding, made 

after lunch and chilled, into serving dishes and set aside 

until needed. Then serve the dinner. 

Tuesday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

2 lbs. Spareribs $0.30 3,200 

Franconia Potatoes 04 600 

Lima Beans 117 400 

Cucumbers and Radish Salad 078 335 

Rice Cream 091 1,215 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner 10.664 6,350 

Total for Day (4) 1,343 12,792 

Per Person per Day 336 3,198 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 202 

GERMAN PUFF WITH CREAM SAUCE 
BUTTERED TOAST COFFEE 

German PufT 

Separate the yolks and whites of 4 eggs, and beat each 
ui^il very light. Mix 5 T sifted flour with enough milk to 
make a smooth, thin paste, then add the rest of 2 c milk and 
the yolks of the eggs ; also i t salt. Cut and fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, then turn the mixture into 
a buttered baking dish. Set in a pan of water and bake in 
a moderate oven about 30 m or until firm. Serve at once 
with I c Medium White Sauce, p. 38. 
Preparing the Meal 

The first thing in the morning make the German Pufif, 

and place in the oven. 15 m before it is done make the 

toast and cofifee, and put the cream and butter on the table. 

Now make i c White Sauce. As soon as the Pufif is done 

serve the breakfast. 

Wednesd.vy Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

German Puflf $0,102 925 

Cream Sauce 038 450 



334 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Toast and Butter 038 600 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Coffee 031 200 

Sugar for Coffee 002 78 

Total Breakfast $0,251 2,253 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 203 

SCALLOPED POTATOES WITH BACON 

CHERRY SALAD BREAD AND BUTTER 

ICED TEA 

Scalloped Potatoes with Bacon 

Wash and pare 4 medium sized potatoes. Slice very 
thinly enough to cover the bottom of a buttered baking dish. 
Over them sprinkle }i t salt, j/g t pepper, and ^_ T butter in 
dots, also 3^ T flour. Add another layer of thinly sliced po- 
tatoes and proceed as before. When the potatoes are all 
used cover the top with thin slices of bacon and add milk 
until it comes to the top of the potatoes. Bake about I h, 
or until the potatoes are tender, adding more milk if neces- 
sary — that is if they become dry. The bacon imparts a 
delicious and appetizing flavor to the potatoes. If more 
meat is desired, alternate layers of potatoes and bacon may 
be used. 
Cherry Salad 

Carefully remove the seeds from i pt. of California white 
cherries, and fill with either filberts or hazel nuts. Arrange 
on crisp lettuce leaves and serve with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Either fresh or canned fruit may be used. 
Preparing the Meal 

About i^ h before luncheon, prepare the scalloped pota- 
toes and bake. About }i h later make the cherry salad and 
then the iced tea. Cut the bread and butter and place on the 
table with the salad. When the potatoes are done serve the 
lunch. Immediately after lunch make the Coffee Charlotte 
Russe and chill for dinner. 

Wednesday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Scalloped Potato and Bacon $0,084 1,100 

Cherry Salad 162 625 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Iced Tea 010 

Sugar for Tea 004 156 

Total Luncheon $0,298 2,481 



JUNE MENUS 335 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 204 

RUMP ROAST WITH CATSUP 

BROWNED POTATOES CREAMED CARROTS 

CHOW CHOW 

COFFEE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Rump Roast with Catsup 

Sprinkle a 4 lb. Rump Roast with i t salt, yi t pepper, and 
2 T flour, put into a cooker, an earthen one if possible, 
pour 1 c catsup over it, cover and bake 3 h in a moderate 
oven. When well browned on one side, turn to brown 
the other. The catsup gives a delicious flavor to the meat 
and gravy. 
Browned Potatoes 

Wash and pare 6 medium sized potatoes, and i h before 
the meat is done place in the pan with the meat, and bake 
until brown. 
Creamed Carrots 

Wash and scrape 4 medium sized carrots, cut into 3^ -inch 
cubes, cover with boiling salted water and cook until tender, 
about 20 m. Drain, cover with i c Medium White Sauce, p. 
38, and serve. 
Coffee Charlotte Russe 

Caramelize ^ c sugar (p. 56), add ^ c coffee, and let 
sioamer until the caramel is dissolved; then add j^ c milk 
and when hot pour onto the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with 
^4 c sugar. When the mixture thickens, add i T granulated 
gelatine, soaked in ^4 c coffee. Stir over ice water until 
the mixture begins to set, then fold in i c cream, beaten 
stiff. Line a mould with paper letting the ends of the paper 
hang over the sides of the mould. Then set sugar wafers 
or lady fingers as a second lining. Place a spoonful of the 
cream mixture at the base of each wafer to hold it in place, 
then fill the mould to the top of the wafers. Chill and serve. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 334 h before dinner prepare the meat and place in 
the oven. About 2 h later wash and pare the potatoes and 
put in the same pan with the meat. Also wash, cube and 
cook the carrots, then make the Cream Sauce for them and 
keep hot over hot water until needed. The Coffee Char- 



336 LESSONS IN COOKING 

lotte Russe should be made immediately after lunch or 
breakfast and chilled. Cut the bread and butter and place 
on the table. 

When the potatoes are done remove from the pan to a 
hot serving dish. Also place the meat on a hot platter and 
make the gravy by stirring 2 T flour into the juices left in 
the pan and when well blended, adding gradually, i c boiling 
water, stirring all the time. Boil 5 m and serve. Drain the 
carrots, add to the cream sauce and serve. 

Leave the Charlotte Russe in a cold place until needed. 

Wednesday Dinnek — Cost Food Units 

2 lbs. Kump Roast $0.32 2,220 

Catsup 05 100 

Browned Totatoes 04 600 

Creamed Carrots 088 650 

Chow Chow 010 25 

Coffee Charlotte Russe 232 1,825 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner $0,778 6.020 

Total for Day (4) 1.328 10,754 

Per Person per Day 332 2,688 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 205 

STRAWBERRIES 
CALVES BRAINS SOUTHERN STYLE 
TOAST COFFEE 

Strawberries 

Wash and pick over carefully i qt. of fresh strawberries. 
Remove the hulls, and place the berries in sauce dishes, cover 
with powdered sugar and serve. 
Brains — Southern Style 

Wash thoroughly i lb. calf brains, and soak overnight in 
I qt. water to which 2 t salt has been added. In the morning 
beat well with an tgg beater adding i egg and beating the 
whole thoroughly. Melt i T butter in a frying pan and add 
the brain mixture, cook slowly like scrambled eggs (p. 25'^. 
Serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

The first thing in the morning prepare and cook the 
brains, and while cooking make the toast and coffee. As 
soon as the toast is made set in the oven or any warm place 
to keep hot until ready to serve the breakfast. Now wash 
and hull the berries, put in the dishes, and place on the 



JUNE MENUS 337 

table. Keep a very low fire under the brains while the ber- 
ries are being eaten, then serve them with the toast and 
coffee. 

Immediately after breakfast start to make the Jellied Beef 
for lunch, and while the gelatine is soaking cook the eggs 
for the salad ; then put cold beef left from the preceding 
evening, through the meat chopper. Now make the cream 
puffs and while they are baking finish the Jellied Beef and 
set away in a cold place to harden ; then finish the salad. A 
salad such as this needs to stand some time before serving 
so that the flavors may be thoroughly blended. Make the 
Cream Filling for the Cream puffs and when both filling 
and puffs are cool, put together. 

Thursday Breakfast — • Cost Food Units 

Strawberries $0.10 200 

Sugar for Berries and Coffee 009 311 

Brains — Southern Style 123 776 

Toast and Butter 038 600 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Coffee 031 200 

Total Breakfast $0,341 2,087 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 206 

JELLIED BEEF 

ONION SALAD BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER 

CREAM PUFFS 

Jellied Beef 

Soak 3^, T gelatine in }i c cold water }i h. Put enough 
cold boiled beef through the meat chopper to make i c ; to 
this add i small tomato peeled and chopped fine, 3^ T grated 
onion, J^ t salt and a dash of pepper. To the gelatine add 
^ c boiling water and when the gelatine is thoroughly dis- 
solved add to the beef mixture. Stir all together well, turn 
into a mould, preferably a square one, and when cold and 
firm cut into slices to serve. 

Onion Salad 

To I c dry breadcrumbs add 2 small onions chopped fine. 
Cook 3 eggs hard, and cut up the whites of i>^ eggs and 
add to the crumbs. Make a dressing of i T melted butter, 
I T vinegar, i T sugar, 3 T lukewarm water, % t pepper, 



338 LESSONS IN COOKING 

j/z^ t salt, and pour over the crumbs, mixing well. Now put 
into a serving dish, cover the top with the yolks of the eggs 
pressed through a sieve, then cut the whites of the other 
i^ eggs into rings and distribute over the top. Garnish 
with parsley and serve. 
Cream Puffs 

To 34 c butter add }^ c hot water, and when boiling add 
^ c flour and beat vigorously. As soon as the ingredients 
are well blended, remove from the fire and add 2 eggs, 
unbeaten, one at a time, beating the mixture thoroughly 
until smooth. Drop by spoonfuls onto a buttered pan, i^ 
inches apart, and shape with the handle of the spoon until 
circular, piling the mixture slightly in the center. Bake 
30 m in a moderate oven. 

When done remove from the oven and when cool make a 
slit in the side of each large enough to admit the Cream 
Filling. If the cakes are removed from the oven before 
they are thoroughly done they will fall. If in doubt, take 
one from the oven and if it retains its shape, it is done. 
This recipe makes 9 small cream cakes. 
Cream Filling 

In a double boiler heat i c milk. While heating mix }^ c 
sugar, 2^ T flour, y^, t salt, well together, then add to i egg 
slightly beaten. Gradually pour on the heated milk, return 
to the double boiler, and cook 15 m, stirring constantly until 
the mixture has thickened. When cool add 34 t vanilla, and 
put into the puffs. 
Preparing the Meal 

Ten minutes before lunch time unmould the Jellied Beef 
and with a sharp knife slice thinly. Also serve the salad, 
then cut the brown bread and butter, fill the water glasses, 
place some cream puffs on a plate on the sideboard, and 
serve the lunch. 

Thursday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Jellied Beef $0,105 592 

Onion Salad 076 841 

Brown Bread 024 300 

Butter 026 300 

Cream Puflfs ( % Recipe) 057 847 

Total Luncheon $0,298 2,880 



JUNE MENUS 339 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 207 

MEAT SOUFFLE — MUSHROOM SAUCE 

BAKED POTATOES WAX BEANS 

STRi\WBERRY SPONGE CAKE 

^Tl finely diopped cooked meat, /. c hot Medium White 
Sauce, yolks 2 eggs, whites 2 eggs. See p. 196. 

Mushroom Sauce . 

To I c Medium White Sauce add i small can mushrooms, 
strained and rinsed. Heat thoroughly and serve poured 
around the souffle. 

Wax Beans , . ^ ^1 . 

Wash well, remove all the strings by cuttmg off the stems 
and drawing down the side of the bean, then cut mto uich 
lengths. Cover with boiling salted water and cook until 
tender, about i h. Drain, reserve i c for future use, then 
add 2 T butter, 3^ t salt, and dash of pepper to the remam- 
ing beans, shake over the fire until thoroughly hot, then 
serve. 

^BeS^2 egg^s until thick, add K c sugar gradually, beating 
well, then add /a c water and /a t vanilla. Mix and sift 2 c 
flour iy2 t baking powder, and ^ t salt. Fold lightly into 
the first mixture. Turn into 2 layer cake pans and bake in 
a slow oven about 3^2 h. 
Strawberry Sponge 

Cut I pt strawberries into small pieces and cover with 
3/ c sugar; spread this between the layers of the sponge 
cake Cover the top layer with a meringue made by beating 
the white of i egg until stiff and adding i T sugar, or with 
whipped cream. Put a border of whole berries around the 
edge of the cake. In this case make the meringue with the 
white of I egg left from Wednesday's dessert, saving the 
other for Friday's dessert. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 134 h before dinner time prepare the wax beans 
and put on the stove to cook. Then wash and scrub the 
potatoes and place in the oven. Make 1/2 c Medium White 
Sauce and while it is cooking over hot water put enough 



340 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



cold beef through the meat grinder to make i c, then finish 
the meat souffle, using ^_ c White Sauce and set in the 
oven, in a pan of water, to bake, allowing about 45 m for 
its baking. Now make the sponge cake and put in the 
oven. While the dinner is cooking in the oven, prepare 
the Strawberry Sponge, then finish the Mushroom Sauce 
by adding i small can mushrooms to the remaining cup 
of White Sauce. Now make the meringue or whip the 
cream, whichever is desired, and set in a cool place until 
needed. By this time the beans are cooked, may be drained, 
seasoned and reheated. 

Put the layers of cake together with the Strawberry fill- 
ing before serving the dinner, then cover with the meringue, 
etc., just before serving the dessert. 

Thursday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Meat Souffle $0,129 980 

Mushroom Sauce 138 555 

Baked Potatoes 04 600 

Wax Beans 117 300 

Strawberry Sponge Cake 144 2,733 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner $0,606 5,768 

Total for Day (4) 1,245 10,735 

Per Person per Day 311 2,684 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 208 

VITOSE — CREAM AND SUGAR 

SHIRRED EGGS . BISCUIT 

COFFEE 

Vitose 

Follow directions given on the package, cooking longer, 
or on page 17 for Cream of Wheat. 
Shirred Eggs 

Butter 4 egg shirrers. If none are available use old cups. 
Cover the bottom and the sides with fine cracker crumbs, 
break an egg and slip into each cup. Place in the oven and 
bake until the white is hardened. Serve either in the cups 
or removed and placed on rounds of toast. 
Biscuit 

Use 2 c flour, 4 t baking powder, ^, t salt, j4 T butter, 
5^ T lard. Pp. 24-78. 
Preparing the Meal 

The first thing in the morning reheat the cereal, then 



JU]^E MENUS 341 

make the biscuits and place in the oven. Prepare the 

Shirred Eggs and place in the oven just when the cereal is 
served, so that they will just be done when ready for them. 
Next make the coffee. Serve the cereal, then the eggs, bis- 
cuits and coffee. 

Immediately after breakfast make the macaroni croquettes 
and set away to cool. 

Friday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Vitose $0,012 316 

Cream for Cereal and Coffee 002 400 

Sugar for Cereal and Coflfee 007 233 

Shirred Eggs 06 400 

Biscuits 023 900 

Butter 026 300 

Coffee 04 

Total Breakfast $0,230 ' 2,549 

LUNCHEON 
Friday Lesson 209 

MACARONI CROQUETTES 

BANANA AND PEANUT SALAD BREAD AND BUTTER 

CHOCOLATE 

Macaroni Croquettes 

Cook 34 package macaroni in salt water until it is tender, 
then drain and chop fine. Heat i c milk and when hot stir 
into it a paste made from i T butter and 2 T flour. Add 
j/2 t salt, dash pepper, and cook until thickened, stirring all 
the time. Beat the yolk of i egg well and gradually pour 
onto it the hot milk mixture. Return to the double boiler 
and cook a few minutes longer. Add the chopped macaroni, 
remove from the fire and when cool shape. Beat the white 
of I egg slightly, dip the croquettes first in crumbs, then 
in the egg white, then in crumbs again. Fry in deep hot 
fat to a golden brown. Serve with Cheese Sauce. 
Cheese Sauce 

Melt Yz T butter, add J^ T each flour and grated cheese, 
Stir all together, and when well mixed add i c milk. Heat, 
stirring constantly until it comes to the boiling point, then 
serve on the croquettes. 
Banana and Peanut Salad 

Peel and cut into quarters 2 chilled bananas, place on 
lettuce leaves, cover with salad dressing and sprinkle with 
chopped peanuts. Serve very cold. 



342 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Chocolate 

Make the same as cocoa on page 13, using grated choco- 
late mstead of cocoa. 
Preparing the Meal 

About ^ h before lunch time shape the macaroni cro- 
quettes prepared in the morning after breakfast. Put the 
milk on to heat for the chocolate, heating enough for the 
cheese sauce at the same time. Now fry the croquettes 
and while frying make the Banana and Peanut Salad, cut 
the bread and butter, and start to make the Cheese Sauce. 
By this time the croquettes should be done and removed to 
a pan lined with tissue or some other absorbent paper to 
drain. Make the chocolate, then finish the Cheese Sauce. 
Fill the glasses with fresh cold water, and serve the lunch. 

Friday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Macaroni Croquettes $0,064 850 

Cheese Sauce 026 277 

Banana and Peanut Salad 087 475 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Chocolate 074 832 

Total Luncheon $0,289 3,034 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 210 

BAKED TROUT — TARTAR SAUCE OR DRAWN BUTTER 

MASHED POTATOES PEAS IN CREAM 

SPONGE PUDDING STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Baked Trout 

Follow directions given on page 90 for Baked White 
Fish, omitting, however, the stuffing. 
Tartar Sauce 

Mix I T vinegar, i t lemon juice, }i t salt, and i T 
Worcestershire Sauce well together and heat over hot 
water. Brown 5^ c butter in a frying pan. Strain the 
two mixtures together and serve. 
Drawn Butter 

Melt 3 T butter, add 3 T flour, ^ t salt, and ^ t pepper, 
mix well together and add gradually i^, c boiling water. 
Boil 5 m, then add 2 T butter in small pieces. Serve with 
boiled or baked fish, etc. 



JVNE MENUS 343 

Sponge Pudding 

Mix 2 T sugar and 34 c flour well together and add a 
little cold milk; heat the remainder of i c milk and when 
hot stir the flour mixture into it. Cook until it thickens, 
then add 2 T butter and when thoroughly mixed pour onto 
the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs ; cool, then add the whites 
beaten stiff. Bake about ^^ h in buttered cups or a baking 
dish set in a pan of water. 
Strawberry Sauce 

}i c butter, ^. c pulverized sugar, i egg white beaten, 
I c strawberries, either fresh berries, crushed or preserved 
fruit. Beat well. Use egg white left from Wednesday. 
See p. 146. 
Green Peas in Cream 

When peas are cooked add 3^ t salt, dash of pepper, and 
y2 c cream. Heat thoroughly and serve. See p. 293. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 1^4 h before dinner time shell the peas, let stand 
in cold water about 15 m, then put on to cook. Now pre- 
pare the trout for the oven, then make the Sponge Pudding 
and place both fish and pudding in the oven at the same 
time, about ^ h before dinner time. Now wash, peel, cut 
into small pieces and put on to cook the potatoes for din- 
ner, preparing sufficient to allow for i c cold cooked pota- 
toes to be used the following day, also reserving i c cold 
cooked peas. Make the strawberry sauce, then whichever 
meat sauce is desired to be used. Drain the peas, add the 
seasonings and reheat, drain and mash the potatoes, re- 
serving I c, unmashed, for future use. Remove the fish 
from the oven to a hot platter, pour the sauce over or serve 
separately, and serve the dinner. 

After dinner cook the Rhubarb Sauce for the next 
morning. 

Feidat Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Paked Trout (2 lbs.) $0.30 400 

Tartar Sauce 04 500 

Mashed Potatoes 057 700 

Peas In Cream 13 400 

Spon^re Pudding 086 932 

Strawberry Sauce 157 1,144 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner $0,808 4,676 

Total for Day (4) 1,327 10,259 

Per Person per Day 331 2,565 



344 LESSONS IN COOKING 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 211 

RHUBARB SAUCE WITH CORNFLAKES 

WAFFLES MAPLE SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Cut enough rhubarb to fill 2 c into pieces about i inch in 
length. Put in a stew pan with i c sugar and about yi c 
water. The rhubarb itself has such a large percentage of 
water that only a very little extra needed be added. Cook 
about ^_ h or until the fruit is tender and soft. 
Waffles 

i>4 c flour, 2 t baking powder, ^4 t salt, i c rich milk, 
2 egg whites, beaten separately (p. 131). 
Preparing the Meal 

The first thing in the morning make the waffle mixture, 
then put the coffee on to cook. Put rhubarb sauce, made 
the preceding evening, and cornflakes in alternate layers in 
cereal bowls and serve. Cook the waffles and serve with 
maple syrup and coft'ee. 

Saturday Beeakfast — Cost Food Units 

Rhubarb $0,066 1,156 

Cornflakes 012 200 

Waffles 061 1,000 

Butter 026 300 

Maple Syrup 05 400 

Coflfee , 04 

Cream for Coffee 031 200 

Sugar for Coffee 002 78 

Total Breakfast $0,288 3,334 

SATURDAY MORNING BAKING 
Bread 

1 c milk, I c water, 2 T lard, 2 t salt, i T sugar, i cake 
comprt ocd yeast, flour (p. 204). 

Rolls 

2 T sugar, %. t salt, j4 c scalded milk, >^ yeast cake dis- 
solved in 2 T lukewarm water, ^ c flour; cover, let rise 
and then add 2 T melted butter, i well beaten egg, grated 
rind of i lemon, flour to knead (p. 290). 

Coffee Cake 

I c scalded milk, J^ c butter, % c sugar, ^ t salt, ys 
Veast cake dissolved in l4 c lukewarm water, i well beaten 



JVNE MENUS US 

egg, flour to make a stiff batter, 3^ c raisins, chopped and 
floured. Cover and let rise overnight. In the morning 
work down well by stirring with a wooden spoon, turn out 
onto a floured board, pat out into a sheet ^, inch thick, 
brush over with beaten egg and a mixture made of 3 T 
melted butter, ys c sugar, i t cinnamon. Sift on top 3 T 
flour (p. 55). 
Cherry Pie 

2 c flour, }i t salt, >^ t baking powder, ^ c shortening 
(see p. 130 for directions). Reserve enough pastry for 6 
tarts. 

Wash, stem, and stone 2 c cherries. Mix i c sugar 
with 2 T flour, add to the cherries, and turn all into a pie 
pan lined with the paste. Add j4- c water, cover with a 
top crust through the center of which have been made 
several gashes to permit the escape of the steam, and bake 
until the cherries are tender and the crust a golden brown. 
Stravi^berry Tarts 

Roll out the paste reserved for the tarts, line individual 
tart pans with the paste and bake with the pie. Prick the 
bottom of each tart with a fork to permit the escape of the 
steam. 

Mash I cup strawberries with ^ sugar and fill the tart 
shells with the mixture. 
Nut Loaf Cake 

Cream ^ c butter, add j4 c sugar and cream well. Mix 
and sift thoroughly i}i c flour, ^4 t cream tartar, i^ t 
baking powder, and add to the creamed mixture, alter- 
nately, with }i c milk. Add }^ c walnut meats cut into 
small pieces, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 4 
eggs. Pour into a loaf cake pan and bake slowly about 
30 to 40 m. Cover with Mocha Frosting. Use 4 egg 
yolks for Salad Dressing (p. 2'^), doubling the recipe. 
Mocha Frosting 

Cream ^ c butter, add lys c confectioner's sugar, grad- 
ually, creaming well ; mix i T powdered cocoa with 2 T 
hot coffee infusion, and when thoroughly melted add to the 
sugar mixture. If not thin enough to spread nicely on the 
cake, add a little more coft"ee until the desired consistency is 
reached. If too thin, add more sugar. 



346 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Method of Work 

Start the bread, rolls, and coffee cake the first thing in 
the morning. If the latter is not set the night before use i 
yeast cake instead of ^. While the bread, etc., are rising, 
make the pastry, then set in a cool place while preparing 
the cherries. Finish the pie and tarts and place in the 
oven. By this time the bread, rolls, and coffee cake can 
be kneaded down and set to rise again, the rolls and coffee 
cake being put into the pans for baking. Now make the 
nut loaf cake, and place in the oven. The pie will doubt- 
less be done by this time, and the strawberry filling made 
and the tarts filled. While the cake is baking the frosting 
may be made. This is one advantage of this kind of 
frosting, that it may stand a number of hours without de- 
terioration. Also it has not the raw taste that uncooked 
frostings usually have. Then make the salad dressing. 

As soon as the cake is out of the oven, put in the rolls and 
coffee cake, and work down the bread again and put into 
the pans for a final rising. By the time the rolls, etc., are 
baked, the bread will be ready for the oven and may be 
baked. 

LUNCHEON 
Saturday Lesson 212 

RUSSIAN SALAD HOT ROLLS 

STRAWBERRY TARTS ICED TEA 

Russian Salad 

Place in the center of a small platter or chop plate a 
small can salmon from which the bones and skin have been 
removed. Other fish may be used if desired. Marinate 
with oil and vinegar (4 T oil, 2 T vinegar, oil poured on 
first, then vinegar), i c cold cooked peas, i c cold cooked 
string beans, and i c cold cooked potatoes, cubed ; arrange 
in sections around the fish on the platter, first peas, then 
beans, then potatoes ; outline each section with strips of 
tomato. Serve with boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

Preparing the Meal 

About I h before lunch time marinate the vegetables, 
which have all been cooked and reserved from previous 
meals. Then about 10 m before lunch time open a small 



JVNE MENUS 347 

can salmon, and finish the salad, make the iced tea, and 

put the strawberry tarts and the hot rolls made in the 

morning on the table and serve the lunch. 

Saturday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Russian Salad $0.18 1,064 

Hot Rolls 012 300 

Butter 026 300 

Strawberry Tarts 112 992 

Iced Tea 01 

Sugar for Tea 004 156 

Total Luncheon $0,344 2,812 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 213 

BREADED VEAL STEAK 

NEW POTATOES IN CREAM CREAMED CAULIFLOWER 

RADISHES 

CHERRY PIE 

Breaded Veal Steak 

Wipe the steak with a damp cloth, then dip into fine 
breadcrumbs, then in beaten egg, then in crumbs again 
and saute in butter, suet, etc., until a golden brown in 
color, and the meat is tender throughout. 
New Potatoes in Cream 

Wash and scrape, do not pare, 8 small new potatoes. 
Cook in boiling salted water ; when tender, drain and cover 
with I c thin White Sauce (p. 38). 
Creamed Cauliflower 

Separate a cauliflower into sections, wash well, and cook 
in boiling salted water until tender, about 30 m. Drain 
and cover with i c Medium White Sauce. 
Radishes 

Wash little red radishes thoroughly, cut off the long 
roots and tops and serve on a bed of chopped ice. 
Cherry Pie 

See Saturday Morning Baking. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 40 m before dinner time wash and scrape the new 
potatoes and put on to cook. Then wash and prepare the 
cauliflower and start to cooking. Bread the veal steak 
and cook. Brown first one side, then the other, then lower 
the fire and cook slowly until tender. Veal needs thorough 



348 LESSONS IN COOKING 

cooking. Now clean the radishes and place on the table, 
then cut the pie, made in the morning, and place on a side 
table until needed. Make the cream sauce for the potatoes 
and cauliflower, when ready to use adding more milk to 
that for the potatoes, drain the potatoes and cauliflower, 
pour over the cream sauce, take up the meat, and serve 
the dinner. 

Saturday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Breaded Veal Steak (2 lbs.) $0.30 1,035 

New Potatoes in Cream 057 700 

Creamed Cauliflower 118 550 

Radishes 05 50 

Cherry Pie 191 3,056 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner |0.754 5,991 

Total for Day (4) 1.386 12.137 

Per Person per Day 346 3,034 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 214 

SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUITS 

FILLED 

WITH STRAWBERRIES 

EGGS IN NESTS HOT COFFEE CAKE 

COFFEE 

Shredded Wheat Biscuits 

With a sharp knife make a hollow in the center of a 
crisp shredded wheat biscuit, fill with fresh strawberries 
and serve with sugar and cream. 
Eggs in Nests 

Separate the yolks and whites of 4 eggs, one at a time, 
taking care not to break the yolks. Beat each white stiflf, 
adding % t salt, place in a shallow ramikin or cus- 
tard cup, and in the center of each place the yolk of the egg. 
Set in a pan of water and bake slowly until set. Serve at 
once. 
Hot Coffee Cake 

Reheat the coffee cake made the previous day by placing 
in the oven for a few minutes. Then serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

The first thing in the morning look over and wash the 
strawberries for breakfast, then prepare the eggs in nests. 
Place in the oven with the coffee cake, then make the 



JUNE MENUS 349 

coffee. While these are cooking, prepare the shredded 
wheat biscuits and place on the table. Serve the cereal, 
then the coffee cake, eggs and coffee. 

Immediately after breakfast, wash and hull the berries 
for the ice cream and set away with the sugar for 2 h. 
Then finish making the ice cream, repack in salt and ice, 
and set away to "ripen." 

Sunday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Shredded Wheat Biscuits $0.04 510 

Strawberries 05 200 

Sugar for Cereal and Coffee 007 233 

Cream for Cereal and Coffee 002 400 

Eggs in Nests 03 400 

Hot Coffee Cake 034 1,100 

Butter 026 300 

Coffee .04 

Total Breakfast . . $0,319 3,143 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 215 

LENOX LAMB WITH PEAS 

NEW POTATOES 

ORANGE AND MINT SALAD 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Lenox Lamb with Peas 

Have the butcher cut from the center of a leg of lamb 
two slices each 1^4 inches thick. Wipe with a damp cloth 
and sear both sides in a hot frying pan until well browned. 
Brush over with melted butter, season with 3^ t salt and 
dash of pepper, and put into a casserole with ^ c water. 
Bake ^ h. 

Parboil ^ c new peas 15 m, then drain and saute in i T 
bacon fat to which has been added i T finely minced onion. 
Make 2 c Brown Sauce Medium (p. 38) and add to the 
lamb with the peas and i c potato cubes. Cook until the 
potatoes are tender, then serve. Place the lamb in the 
center of the platter with the potatoes at one end and the 
peas at the other. Over all pour the gravy. 
Orange and Mint Salad 

Peel two large oranges, separate into sections and cut 
each section into thirds. Sprinkle with 2 T pulverized 
sugar, 2 T finely chopped mint, i T grape juice, and ^2 T 
lemon juice. Chill thoroughly with salt and ice, then serve 



350 LESSONS IN COOKING 

in sherbet glasses or orange baskets, garnished with a sprig 

of mint. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Wash and hull i>4 pts strawberries, cover with 2 cups of 
sugar, and let stand 2 h. Mash and squeeze through a 
cheesecloth, then add % t salt. Freeze i>^, pts thin cream 
to the consistency of mush, using 3 parts ice to i part 
salt, then gradually add the crushed fruit and finish freez- 
ing. Standing for an hour or so packed in ice and salt 
improves the flavor. 
Preparing the Meal 

One hour before dinner time prepare the lamb and while 
cooking in the oven parboil the peas. While they are 
cooking wash, scrape and cube enough potatoes to make 
I c, and then make 2 c brown sauce. By this time the peas 
may be drained and sauted in the bacon fat with the minced 
onion. Now add peas, potatoes and sauce to the lamb, 
cover and cook until potatoes are tender. While the meat 
is cooking make the salad and chill with salt and ice until 
ready to serve the dinner. Then chop the ham for sand- 
wiches and make the Sauce Tartare for supper. Just be- 
fore taking up the meat arrange the salad in sherbet cups 
or whatever is to be used, and place on the table. Serve the 
dinner. 

Sunday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Lenox Lamb (2 lbs.) $0.30 1,932 

Potatoes •. . . .03 450 

Peas 05 100 

Orange and Mint Salad 068 312 

Strawberry Ice Cream 181 1,806 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner $0,667 5,200 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 216 

DEVILLED HAM SANDWICHES 

CELERY, CARROT AND NUT SALAD 

NUT LOAF CAKE FRESH CURRANT CRUSH 

Devilled Ham Sandwiches 

Finely chop i c cold boiled ham. Mix thoroughly with 
y2 c Sauce Tartare, spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread, cut off the crusts, cut the sandwiofaes into triangles, 
oblongs, etc., and serve. 



JVNE MENUS 35i 

Sauce Tartare 

Mix y^ t mustard, 2 t sugar, ^ t salt, and dash cayenne 
thoroughly; add the yolks of 2 eggs and stir until the ingre- 
dients are very well mixed, setting the bowl in a pan of ice 
water. Now add 5^ c olive oil, drop by drop, stirring with 
a wooden spoon or wire whisk. As the mixture thickens, 
add a few drops of vinegar, of which there should be ij^ T 
used in all, then the oil may be added more rapidly. Put 
away in a cool place until ready to use, when J^ T each 
finely chopped capers, pickles, olives and parsley should be 
added. 

Celery, Carrot, and Nut Salad 

Put I c celery and i c raw carrots through the meat 
grinder. Then mix with j4 c English walnuts and put 
through the grinder again. Mix well with ^ c salad dress- 
ing, and serve on lettuce leaf. 

The second grinding is for the purpose of thoroughly 
blending the ingredients, so that the flavor is completely 
changed. 

Fresh Currant Crush 

Wash thoroughly i pt fresh red currants, then mash 
with 2 c sugar. Chill and serve. 

Nut Loaf Cake 

See Saturday Morning Baking. 

Preparing the Meal 

If desired this entire meal may be prepared just after 
dinner, the sandwiches made and wrapped in oiled paper 
until needed, the salad made and put in a cold place as its 
excellence will only be increased by standing, the currants 
washed and mashed and put in a cool place. So that 10 m 
before supper time will be ample for cutting the cake and 
putting the rest of the meal on the table. 

Sunday Suppeb — Cost Food Units 

Devilled Ham Sandwiches $0,146 1,600 

Celerv, Carrot and Nut Salad 076 362 

Nut Loaf Cake (Vi recipe) 062 1,087 

Fresh Currant Crush 082 2,212 

Total Supper $0,366 5,261 

Total for Day (4) 1.352 13,604 

Per Person — 

Per day 838 3,401 



552 LESSONS IN COOKING 

WEDDING BREAKFAST 

FRUIT PUNCH 

HALIBUT TURBANS — HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

NEW POTATO BALLS OLIVES 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES 

NEW PEAS IN TIMBALE CASES HOT ROLLS 

MOULDED CUCUMBER JELLY SALAD 

GRISINI 

WEDDING CAKE AND BRIDE's CAKE PINEAPPLE PARFAIT 

CREAM PATTIES 

A color scheme has been purposely omitted in this break- 
fast and the dishes so planned that any color scheme can 
be carried out to suit the special occasion. For instance, 
for a yellow wedding, slices of hard cooked egg qmi be 
added to the fish sauce. The salad dressing for the cucum- 
ber can be made a rich yellow, the pineapple parfait can be 
garnished with candied orange peel and served in orange 
cups, the pulp and the juice of the oranges being used in 
the fruit punch. The cream patties can be flavored with 
orange and colored yellow. 

For a green color scheme, use green leaves for doilies 
under the punch cups, minced parsley should be sprinkled 
on top of the Hollandaise sauce for the fish, the sweet- 
bread croquettes laid on lettuce leaves, the cucumber jelly 
salad served in the green cucumber cups and set on a lettuce 
leaf, the parfait decorated with angelica and served in pale 
green paper cups, with the green mint patties. 

For a pink color scheme, strawberries and cherries, strips 
of red pimento, etc., can be employed in the garnishings. 

A wedding breakfast is supposed to be served at about 
12 o'clock, but the above menu would be suitable for any 
hour. 

Seating of the Guests 

If there are a great many guests they should be seated at 
small tables, four at each table, and care taken that persons 
congenial to each other be seated together. For the Bridal 
Party, however, a larger table is used and the guests seated 
as follows: The bride is seated at the groom's left, and 
this is the only time when husband and wife, as host and 



JUNE MENUS 353 

inostess, should be seated together. At the left of the bride 
aS seated the best man, then the minister's wife, then the 
bride's father and the groom's mother. At the right of 
the groom is seated the maid of honor, then the minister, 
then the bride's mother and the groom's father. If there is 
room for more at this table, seat the bridesmaids and ushers, 
putting together such as are congenial. 

Fruit Punch 

Make a syrup by boiling i c sugar with ^ c water lo m ; 
add yz c tea infusion, i c strawberry syrup, ^^ can grated 
pineapple, the juice of 3 lemons and 3 oranges, and let 
stand 5^ h. Strain and add enough ice water to make ^4 
gallon liquid. Add ^ c Maraschino cherries and i pt 
Apollinaris. This quantity will serve 25. 

Halibut Turbans 

Remove the bones and skin from two slices of halibut 
cut ^ inch thick and divide into four fillets. Dip in melted 
butter, squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon, pepper, 
salt, and a little onion juice, about ^ t. Commencing with 
the wide end roll each fillet into a turban, and fasten with 
a toothpick. Bake about 20 m, basting with hot stock, or 
y2 c water in which 2 T butter has been melted. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

I T chopped onion, a bit of bay leaf, 2 T vinegaf. 2 T 
butter, I T flour, i c boiling water, yolks 2 eggs, y t salt 
(p. 91). 
New Potato Balls 

With a scoop or French vegetable cutter cut out suf- 
ficient potato balls to fill i pt. measure. Cook until tender 
in boiling salted water, drain, sprinkle with salt and minced 
parsley, and serve with the fish. 

Sweetbread Croquettes 

To I c Thick White Sauce add i egg, ^, t salt, y t 
paprika, i T lemon juice, and 2 c cold cooked chopped 
sweetbreads. When thoroughly cold, shape as desired, dip 
in crumbs, then beaten egg, then crumbs, and fry in deep 
hot fat. 
New Peas in Timbale Cases 

Follow directions on page 293 for cooking green peas, 



354 LESSONS IN COOKING 

drain, add 2 T butter, >^ t salt and dash pepper for each 
pint peas and fill the timbale cases. 

Timbale Cases 

2 eggs, I c milk, i c flour, 34 t salt (p. 176). 
Moulded Cucumber Jelly Salad 

Cut 2 medium sized cucumbers into thin slices, add i 
slice of onion, y2 t salt, }i t pepper, and i pt. water. Sim- 
mer until the cucumber is tender. Soak i T granulated 
gelatine in i T cold water, add to the first mixture, then 
strain. Line a mould with slices of cold cucumbers, then 
pour in the jelly. When firm and very cold serve on a bed 
of lettuce with French or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Grisini 

Sift 2 c flour with i t salt and }i t cayenne, add ^ c 
butter, beaten to a cream, 2 eggs well beaten, and i T milk. 
Knead to a smooth paste, then roll out into a thin sheet, 
and cut in strips about ^ inch wide and 4 inches long. 
Lay in buttered tins, brush over with milk, sprinkle with 
coarse salt and bake in a quick oven. 

Wedding Cake 

Cream 2 c butter, add 2 c sugar gradually, and beat thor- 
oughly. Separate the yolks and whites of 12 eggs, beat 
the yolks until thick and lemon colored, and the whites 
until stiff and dry, and add to the sugar and butter. Mix 
?.nd sift 4 c flour, 2 t cinnamon, ^ t each nutmeg, allspice 
and mace, reserve ys c with which to dredge the fruit, then 
add the rest to the sugar and butter mixture. Seed and cut 
into small pieces 23^ lbs. raisins, ^ lb. currants, slice very 
thin and cut into strips i lb. citron, chop finely i lb. figs 
and I lb. almonds, dredge with the ys c flour and add to the 
cake, with 2 T lemon juice and 34 c grapejuice. Mix well, 
pour into deep buttered pans, cover the top with oiled paper 
and steam 3 h, then bake i^^ h in a slow oven. Or bake 4 h 
in a slow oven. When the cake is steamed, then baked, it 
seems to be richer than when baked only. 

Bride's Cake 

Cream 3^ c butter, add ij^ c sugar and mix well. Mix 
^xid sift well 23^ c pastry flour, 3 t baking powder, % t 



JUNE MENUS 355 

cream of tartar, and add to the sugar mixture alternately 
with y2 c milk. When well mixed add 3^ t almond extract 
and the stiffly beaten whites of 6 eggs. Bake 45-50 m in 
deep narrow pans. Frost with plain icing (p. 34). 

Pineapple Parfait 

Boil together i c sugar and ^ c water until it threads. 
Beat the whites of 3 eggs until stiff and dry, adding ^ t 
cream of tartar when the eggs are foamy. Pour the syrup 
slowly onto the whites of the eggs and continue beating 
until cold. Add i c grated pineapple and i pt. heavy 
cream whipped stiff. Put into moulds and let stand for 
3 h, packed in equal portions of ice and salt. 

Cream Patties 

5 c sugar, 23^2 c water and 3^^ t cream of tartar (p. 118, 
plain fondant and cream mints). 

Preparing the Breakfast 

The juice for the fruit punch, the sweetbread croquettes, 
timbale cases, rolls, cucumber jelly salad, grisini, bride's 
cake and the cream patties should all have been prepared 
the preceding day. The wedding cake should have been 
made some weeks previously, as the flavor is greatly im- 
proved by standing. Some make these cakes months and 
even years beforehand. 

Immediately after the early breakfast for the family cut 
the potato balls and cover with cold water. Also wash 
the parsley and lettuce which will be used, open the olives, 
rinse, and pour into the serving dishes, or arrange on the 
bread and butter plates 2 to each. Now prepare the pine- 
apple parfait and pack in ice and salt. Now shell the peas 
and let stand in cold water until ready to cook them. Mince 
the parsley for the potato balls. One h before serving 
time put the peas on to cook, then cook the potato balls. 
While these are cooking prepare the halibut turbans and 
put into the oven, then fry the sweetbread cronuettes and 
set in a warm place until needed. IVTake the Hollandaise 
Sauce and to m before removinsr the fish from the oven 
reheat the rolls and the grisini. Arrange the timbale cases 
on plates ready for the peas, also put out the cucumber 
jelly salad, finish the fruit punch, putting a large piece of 



356 LESSONS IN COOKING 

ice in it so that it will be thoroughly cold, cat the cakes, 
and put the patties in serving dishes. Drain the potato 
balls, season and cover with the minced parsley. Drain 
the peas and add the seasoning, and keep warm until needed. 
The breakfast would, naturally, be served in course?. 
The first course is the fruit punch ; the second course, hali- 
but turbans, potato balls and olives ; the third, sweetbread 
croquettes, peas in timbale cases and hot rolls ; fourth, 
moulded cucumber jelly salad, grisini; fifth, pineapple par- 
fait, cake and patties. 

JUNE MENUS— COST AND FOOD VALUES— FOUR 
PERSONS 
Summary — Cost Food Units 

Monday— Total $1.18 10,443 

Tuesday— Total 1.343 12,792 

Wednesday— Total 1.328 10,754 

Thursday — Total 1.245 10,735 

Friday— Total 1.327 10,259 

Saturday— Total 1.386 12,137 

Sunday— Total 1.352 13,604 

Total for Week (4) $9,161 80,724 

Total for Week (1) 2.29 20,181 

Average per Day per Person.. .327 2,883 

REDUCING THE COST OF THE JUNE MENUS 

In the endeavor to lessen the cost of the meals served in June the local 
prices must have chief consideration. The prices used in the above 
calculations are current prices in a small city of Illinois. The prices of 
meat in large cities and in fashionable neighborhoods will generally be 
higher than those used in the calculations. On investigation it will be 
found that prices vary as much as 25 per cent in different localities of 
the same city. In dealing with shops in which low prices rule, it is 
usually necessary to make personal selection in order to obtain satisfactory 
quality. 

As suggested in previous months, using the top of the milk for cereals 
and coffee in place of cream will save about 32c. If butter is high and 
oleomargarine is available, its use in cooking will save about 15c. A small 
vegetable garden and cold frame for raising rhubarb, lettuce, radishes, 
onions, mint, parsley, etc., will save about 25c. Substituting a cut from 
the chuck in L. 198 and 204 would save about 10c in some localities. 
Omitting mushroom sauce to the meat souflBe in L. 207 would save 13c. 
Substituting molasses cookies for Coffee Charlotte Russe, L. 204, would 
make a difference of 20c. Using caramel syrup in L. 211 in place of 
maple would save 4c. The use of home grown cherries in a cherry pie 
of L. 213 and the salad of L'. 203 would reduce the cost about 10c. Salad 
oil in place of olive oil in all salads would effect a saving of at least 10c. 

The total saving according to the above suggestions would amount to 
$1.39, which would reduce the cost of the meals to $7.77 for the week 
and $1.11 per day, or $0.28 per person per day. 



JULY MENUS 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

PART XI 



CANNING OF VEGETABLES 

In canning vegetables the same principal for preservation 
must be employed as for fruit — that of thorough steriliza- 
tion. As we cannot use either a strong sugar or acid 
solution to aid preservation, we are reduced to one method 
of sterilization — the employment of heat. Consequently the 
greatest caution and care must be taken to insure good 
results. Even then there may be some failures because the 
temperature used cannot, under ordinary circumstances, be 
raised above that of boiling or 2I2°F, and the spores of 
some bacteria are supposed to resist any temperature below 
240° F. These developing later into active bacteria cause 
the vegetables to spoil. 

To prevent this a greater degree of success may be 
obtained by dividing the time of cooking into three parts, 
allowing. 24 hours or more to elapse between each period of 
cooking. This will give the spores time to develop into 
bacteria, which are subsequently killed by the boiling tem- 
perature. The third cooking should render the entire con- 
tents of the jar sterile. 

The commercial canners of vegetables heat the cans by 
means of steam under pressure and so obtain a higher tem- 
perature than 2I2°F. As it is not possible to do this in the 
home, the intermittent method of sterilization should be 
used rather than long cooking for 3 to 5 h. By the inter- 
mittent method the full flavor and color are retained, where- 
as long, cooking has an unfavorable effect. 

Vegetables for canning must be freshly gathered, prefer- 
ably early in the morning while the dew is still on them. 

All green vegetables, such as peas, beans, corn, should be 
taken in the early stage before they lose the "sweet taste" — 
that is before the sugar is changed to starch. 
Utensils 

Where canning of vegetables is done in large quantities 
canners may be used, but the directions given here are for 
the use of the utensils found in the average home. 

7opyrIght, 1912, by Home Economics Association. 
357 



358 LESSONS IN COOKING 

1. A wash boiler having a tight cover or a large steamer 
of the square type with doors. 

2, A rack or trivet on which to set the cans if a boiler is 
used. This may be made of narrow strips of wood, or pre- 




STERILIZER— WASH BOILER WITH WIRE MESH BOTTOM. 

ferably of galvanized iron wire netting, ^, inch mesh, cut 
to fit the bottom of the boiler. 

3. The glass jars having glass covers and spring tops 
are the best to use. The screw top jars with covers which 
have a porcelain lining are not safe to use, for any vege- 
tables except tomatoes. Use pint or quarts, according to the 
size of the family. Always use new rubber rings of the best 
quality. 

Canned Corn 

I. With Hulls 

Corn should be canned within an hour of being shucked 
if possible. Husk the ears and remove all silk with a stiff 
brush. Cut the corn from the cob, being careful not to 
include any defective kernels. Pack into the jars, pressing, 
it down and filling with cold water. Salt to taste — about 
I t to a quart and lay on the rubber rings and covers and 
set on the rack in the boiler. Surround with lukewarm 
water about 3 inches deep. Cover the boiler, bring quickly 
to the boiling point and steam for one (i) hour for pint 
jars and 1^4 hours for quarts. Clamp down the covers and 
remove the jars and let cool away from any draft or leave in 
the boiler over night. 

The next day raise the spring clamp and steam in the 



JULY MENUS 



359 



boiler for an hour or an hour and a quarter, then clamp on 
the covers and allow to cool. Repeat this process the third 
day. 

Set the jars aside for two or three days and then test 
them for thorough sterilization by releasing the spring clamp 
and picking up the jar by the edge of the cover. If there 





Closed. 




Spring loosened. Testing. 

SPRING TOP PRESERVE JARS. 

From Bulletin No. 359— Canning Vegetables in the Home. V. S. Dept. Agriculture. 

has been the slightest decomposition, the gases formed will 
relieve the suction produced when the jars cool and the cover 
will come off. When this happens taste the contents of the 
jar and if the flavor is unaffected sterilize again and test 
once more. ^To open jars release the spring and insert a 
thin knife blade under the rubber next the jar. 
II. Without Hulls 



360 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Score each row of grains and press out the pulp, using 
the back of a knife. Pack into jars and proceed as above, 
steaming for one hour on three successive days. 

Canned Peas 

Select young, tender peas, shell and wash in cold water. 
Scald with boiling water, drain immediately and pack into 
jars, shaking down well. Fill to overflowing with water, 
having i t of salt to the quart. Adjust covers, set on the 
rack in the boiler and steam for an hour on three successive 
days, as directed for canned corn. If cans are not full, fill 
to overflowing with boiling water, being careful not to lay 
the covers down, as they may gather yeast spores. Be sure 
to test the cans for sterilization as described. 

Lima, Kidney or Other Shell Beans may be canned 
according to the process given for peas. If desired the 
preliminary scalding may be omitted, but this allows more 
of the vegetable to be packed in the can. 

Canned Asparagus 

Have the asparagus cut fresh and use only the tender 
stalks or portions of stalks. Wash and drain, cover with 
boiling water and cook lo m. Drain, and when cool enough 
to handle, arrange neatly in jars with the heads up, using 
wide mouthed jars. Add 5^ t salt to each pint jar, fill to 
overflowing with boiling, water, put on the covers loosely, set 
irb the boiler and cool in the kettle. 

Canned Tomatoes 

I. Whole Tomatoes 

Select tomatoes that are small, even sized and solid. Scald 
and peel, being careful to remove the stem end. Arrange in 
jars, fill with cooled boiled water, cover loosely, set in boiler, 
surrounded in water as in preceding cases, and boil ^^ h. 
If necessary fill each can to overflowing with boiling water 
and fasten the lids. Imperfect tomatoes can be sliced, cooked 
and used instead of the boiled water to fill the jars. 

II. Stewed Tomatoes 

Prepare tomatoes as in the preceding directions, cut into 
halves or quarters, cook in porcelain lined vessel for about 
30 m. Sterilize the jars and fill with the boiling tomatoes 
to overflowing. Adjust the lids, screwing tight or sealing.. 



JULY MENUS 361 

Canned Corn and Tomatoes 

Prepare the corn according to directions given in Process 
II, thus using only the pulp. Add to tomatoes, using equal 
portions of each and follow directions given for Stewed 
Tomatoes. 

Canned Beets 

Select small young beets. Wash and boil for 30 m. Re- 
move the skins and pack carefully into jars. Fill the jars 
with vinegar and water, which has been boiled and cooled, 
using I part vinegar to 2 parts water. Adjust the covers, 
set in boiler, surround with water, as in the preceding direc- 
tions, and boil for ^ h. Tighten the covers and cool in the 
boiler. 

Carrots and turnips may be canned after this rule. Wash 
and pare, then boil for 30 m. and proceed as above, using 
plain boiled water instead of vinegar and water. 

PICKLING OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

The principle of preservation in this case is the use of a 
strong acid solution, which is not favorable to the growth 
and activity of the bacteria. 

Fruits and vegetables both should be very firm and in 
perfect condition. In some cases the green fruit is used. 

Fruits as a rule are pickled alone, but with the vegetables 
many combinations are used. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

Select firm ripe, but not overripe, peaches, the cling stone 
being, better than the free stone. 

Scald to remove the skins. If the peaches are not quite 
ripe this may not be successful, and in such cases they will 
have to be pared. 

Then weigh the fruit and stick each peach with four (4) 
cloves. To one part fruit use one-half as much sugar, one- 
eighth as much vinegar and one-half as much water as 
vinegar. 

Make a syrup of the sugar, vinegar and water, adding a 
stick of cinnamon (about I oz. stick to each pint of vinegar). 
Boil about 20 m. and skim if necessary. Then drop peaches 
in, a few at a time, cook until tender, transfer to sterilized 



362 LESSONS IN COOKING 

jars, and when all the peaches have been cooked fill the jars 
up with the syrup. 

The skin may be left on the peaches, which should then 
be well rubbed to remove the fur, but they will require 
longer cooking. 

Pears, Apples, Plums may be pickled in the same way as 
peaches, the best for the purpose being, the sickle pears, red 
crab-apples, either green gage or large blue or red plum. 
These are all left unpeeled. 

Cherries are pickled the same as peaches, selecting cher- 
ries having a good stem, and two, three or more in a bunch. 
Leave them on the stems. The cloves should be put right 
into the syrup instead of into the fruit. 
Spiced Currants 

Wash and drain the currants and remove from the stems. 
Weigh the fruit, and use in the proportion of i part currants, 
^ part brown sugar and Ys part vinegar. Put all together 
into a preserving kettle, add ground cloves and cinnamon, 
tied in a bag (i T to each 2 lbs. fruit), and cook slowly — 
about 1)4 h. Keep in a stone jar in a cool place. 

Ripe Cucumbers 

Peel the cucumbers, cut in quarters lengthwise, and re- 
move the seeds. Cover with alum water, allowing 2 t 
alum to each quart of water. Heat to boiling point and let 
stand in a warm place 3 h. Remove from the alum water 
and let stand i h. in ice or cold water. Weigh the cucumber 
at this point and make a syrup in the same proportions as 
for pickled peaches — i part cucumber, ^^ part sugar, y^ 
part vinegar and yi as much water as vinegar. 

Cook the cucumber in the syrup until tender. 
Unripe Cucumbers (Gherkins) 

To I gal. of pickles add i cup salt and cover with boiling 
water. Let stand 24 h, then pour off the water, heat to 
the boiling point and pour back over the pickles. Let stand 
for 24 h and repeat the above directions. Let stand for 
another 24 h. Then heat together i pint each of vinegar and 
water and a small piece of alum about the size of a hickory 
nut. Drain the cucumbers from the brine, pour over them 
the boiling hot vinegar and water with the dissolved alum, 
and let stand in that solution until firm — about 6 h. 



JULY MENUS 363 

To I gal. of vinegar add 2 sticks of cinnamon, 2 T all- 
spice berries, 2 T cloves, i red pepper and i cup of sugar. 
Boil 10 m, then cook the cucumbers, a few at a time, drained 
from the alum water, for 10 m in 14 the vinegar solution. 
Put the pickles in a stone jar and pour over them the rest 
of the vinegar. 

Olive Oil Pickles 

Slice 2 qts. green cucumbers very thin, cover with boiling 
water. When cold drain and cover with a weak brine and let 
stand 24 h, then drain. Mix together j4 t each cloves, all- 
spice and celery seed, i t cinnamon, 34 cup sugar, 34 cup 
mustard seed, 34 cup olive oil, 2 cups very thinly sliced 
onion and add to the cucumber. Mix well and add enough 
cold vinegar to cover thoroughly. Store in jars. 

Chow Chow 

Prepare and cut into small pieces 3 qts. small green 
tomatoes, 24 very small cucumbers, 4 red peppers, 2 large 
cauliflower, 3 bunches celery, 13^ pints small onions. Put 
in layers in a crock with salt sprinkled between the layers 
and on top. Let stand 12 h, then drain off the brine. Cover 
with vinegar and water in equal parts and let stand another 
12 h. Drain again and pour over 3^ gal. vinegar, which 
has been boiled 10 m with 4 lbs. sugar, i pint grated horse- 
radish, I oz. celery seed, 3/^ lb. mustard seed, 34 cup whole 
peppers, ^ cup turmeric, ^i cup cinnamon. Let stand until 
cold and then add i cup salad oil mixed with 34 cup ground 
mustard. 

Chili Sauce 

Peel and slice 18 medium sized ripe tomatoes and put into 
a preserving kettle. Add 2 small peppers and 2 small onions 
each finely chopped, >^ c sugar, 13^ T salt, 3 t each clove, 
cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice, and i qt. vinegar. Heat 
gradually to the boiling point and then cook slowly 23/2 h 
to 3 h. Pour into sterilized bottles or jars and seal. 

Watermelon Rind 

Remove all the pink pulp and thin green skin from the 
rind and cut the rind into cubes or strips. Then proceed 
as for ripe cucumbers. 



JULY MENUS 

Monday Lesson 218 

BREAKFAST 

POST TOASTIES RED RASPBERRIES 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHOPPED TOMATOES 

TOAST COFFEE 

Post Toasties 

Heat in the oven until thoroughly crisp, then cover each 
bowl of cereal with freshly washed sweetened raspberries. 

Scrambled Eggs w^ith Chopped Tomatoes 

Cut fine 3 tomatoes and cook for lo m with 2 T butter, 
Yi t salt, Yz t pepper ; then drop in 3 unbeaten eggs. Cook 
stirring constantly until the eggs are set, then serve at once 
on toast. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the tomatoes and start to cooking, then wash 
and sweeten the raspberries and put the cereal in the oven 
to become crisp. Now make the coffee and while it is cook- 
ing make the toast. Put the eggs in the pan with the toma- 
toes and cook very slowly until set. Serve the cereal before 
the eggs are done, having the heat under them very low. 
Then serve the eggs, toast and coffee. 

Immediately after breakfast make the Cherry Pudding 
and Custard Sauce for dinner. 

Monday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Post Toasties ; $0,012 200 

Red Raspberries 10 100 

Scrambled Eggs with Chopped Toma- 
toes 118 575 

Toast and Butter 038 600 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Cereal and Coffee 062 400 

Sugar for Cereal and Coffee 007 233 

Total Breakfast ?0.377 2,108 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Monday Lesson 219 

POTATO SALAD ON LETTUCE 

BREAD AND BUTTER . ICED TEA 

CAKE 

Potato Salad 

Cut 3 cold boiled potatoes into cubes, add i onion and J^ 
cucumber chopped fine. Marinate with 6 T olive oil and 3 T 

364 



JULY MENUS 365 

lemon juice. Season with >^ t salt and ys t pepper. Arrange 
the salad in a salad bowl, cover the top with slices of tomato 
and over this place a few tablespoons of boiled salad dress- 
ing (p. 29) or mayonnaise (p. 177). 

Preparing the Meal 

An hour before luncheon prepare the salad and set in a 
cold place until ready to serve. At that time also make i c 
strong tea and set away to cool. 

Ten m before lunch time cut the bread and butter, make 
the tea, using ice water, cut cake left from Sunday, or use 
cookies or fancy crackers. Arrange the salad on plates and 
serve the luncheon. 

Monday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Potato Salad $0.14 1,068 

Lettuce 025 25 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Iced Tea 014 156 

Cake 055 812 

Total Luncheon $0,272 2,661 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 220 

SAVORY MEAT CASSEROLE 

POTATOES LETTUCE 

CHERRY PUDDING CUSTARD SAUCE 

Savory Meat Casserole 

Grind together i pound roundsteak, ^ c stale bread, i 
stalk celery (or a few grains of celery salt), and i slice 
onion. Add i t salt, }i t pepper, }i t nutmeg, and i egg. 
well beaten ; mix thoroughly, then shape into an oval loaf, 
and place in a casserole or baking dish. Slice 3 small car- 
rots lengthwise, peel six onions and place both in the dish 
with the meat. Add i qt. boiling water, cover tightly and 
cook very slowly over the simmer burner, in a very slow 
oven or in a fireless cooker for about 3 h. The last 15 m 
the meat may be cooked uncovered in the oven, to brown it. 
Also at this time add ^ t salt and % t pepper to the gravy. 
When ready to serve place the loaf on a hot platter and 
arrange the vegetables around it. Thicken the gravy with 
I T flour mixed with i T butter and pour around the meat. 



366 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and scrape 6 medium sized new potatoes. Cover 
with hot salted water and cook until tender. Drain^ shake a 
minute or two in the pan and serve. 
Lettuce 

Wash thoroughly and then chill i head of lettuce. When 
ready to serve arrange on salad plates and place on the 
table together with oil and vinegar or lemon juice, as desired. 

Cherry Pudding 

Wash and pit 2 c cherries, add i c sugar and ^ c water, 
and cook until tender. When done there should be about 2 c. 
To this quantity add 2 T cornstarch mixed with 2 T cold 
water, >4 t salt, a grating of nutmeg and cook 15 m in a 
double boiler. Remove from the fire, add the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, turn into a wet mould or moulds and set 
away to cool. Serve very cold with Custard Sauce. 

In season Rhubarb or Gooseberries may be used in this 
recipe, adding y^ c more of sugar. 
Custard Sauce 

Scald iy2 c milk. To the yolks of 2 eggs add >4 c sugar, 
}i t salt and mix thoroughly. Add the hot milk slowly, 
stirring all the time, return to the double boiler and cook, 
stirring constantly until the mixture coats the spoon. Add 
}i t nutmeg and set avv^ay to cool. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before dinner time prepare the Savory Meat 
Casserole and start to cooking. Then make the Cherry 
Pudding and Sauce and set away to cool, if not made after 
breakfast. 

Forty m before dinner wash and scrape the potatoes and 
put on to cook. Then wash the lettuce and place in the 
refrigerator to chill. Unmould the Pudding onto the serving 
dishes, pour the Sauce around it and set in a cool place until 
needed. Uncover the casserole and set in the oven to brown 
the meat. When brown remove from the casserole to hot 
platter, arrange the vegetables around it, then thicken the 
gravy. While the gravy is cooking cut the bread and butter, 
fill the water glasses and place all on the table. Serve the 
lettuce, drain the potatoes and put into a vegetable dish, 
pour the gravy around the meat and serve the dinner. 



JULY MENUS 



367 



Monday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Savory Meat Casserole (1 lb.) $0.22 1,412 

Potatoes 04 COO 

Lettuce 05 50 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Cherry Pudding 108 1,640 

Custard Sauce 048 664 

Total Dinner $0,504 4.966 

Total for Day 1.153 9,735 

Per Day per Person 288 2,434 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 221 

BERRIES OR OTHER FRESH FRUIT 

FRIZZLED BEEF TOAST 

COFFEE 

Frizzled Beef 

Break ^ pound dried beef into small pieces. Melt 2 T 
butter in a frying pan, add the beef and stir until the sides 
curl up. Serve at once. 
Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the fruit, arrange in dishes, sweeten and serve. 

Break the dried beef into small pieces, make the coffee and 

while cooking make the toast. Butter the toast, set in the 

oven to keep warm until needed, and prepare the frizzled 

beef. Keep all warm while the fruit is being eaten, then 

serve the breakfast. 

TtJESDAY Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Berries $0.10 200 

Frizzled Beef 087 477 

Toast and Butter 038 600 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Fruit and Coffee 062 400 

Sugar for Fruit and Coffee 007 233 

Total Breakfast $0,324 1,910 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 222 

INDIVIDUAL BEEF ROLLS 

CRESS AND ORANGE SALAD BREAD AND BUTTER 

TEA 

Individual Beef Rolls 

Grind i pound of round steak, shape into round cakes 
and broil them. While they are cooking melt 2 T butter 
in a pan, add 2 T flour, and when well blended add i c milk 
and stir until boiling. Add i T dry horseradish or 2 T 
horseradish pressed from the vinegar and ^ t salt. Pour 



;iij3 LESSONS IN COOKING 

this mixture into the platter, arrange the meat cakes in it 

and serve. 

Cress and Orange Salad 

Wash thoroughly and separate into small pieces a small 
bunch of water cress. Peel two oranges, separate into sec- 
tions and cut each section into thirds. Add to the cress 
y2 c salad dressing, mix thoroughly and serve very cold 
on a lettuce leaf. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 3^ h before luncheon time make the salad and set 
in a cold place until needed. Grind the round steak and 
prepare the beef rolls. While cooking make the sauce for 
the meat. Cut the bread and butter and place on the table. 
Make the tea and serve the luncheon. 

TOESDAY LDNCHEON COST FOOD UNITS 

Beef Rolls $0,198 1,250 

Cress and Orange Salad 107 425 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Tea and Sugar 014 156 

Total Luncheon $0,337 2,431 

DINNER 
Tuesday Lesson 223 

ROAST MUTTON 

BAKED SAVORY RICE SCALLOPED CORN 

MINT PUNCH 

PINEAPPLE FANCY 

Roast Mutton 

Dredge with flour in the roasting pan and place in a hot 
oven. After 15 or 20 m lower the temperature, add season- 
ing and baste with the drippings occasionally. Cook for 
2y2 to 3 h, according to size. 
Baked Savory Rice 

Blanch i c rice, drain, rinse with cold water, cover with 
I qt. boiling water and return to the fire. Add i t salt, juice 
of I lemon and cook for 15 m, stirring occasionally. Add 
J4 c butter creamed with i T curry powder, turn into a 
baking dish and bake until tender. 

Reserve ^ c cooked rice for use Thursday morning. 
Scalloped Corn 

With a sharp knife cut through the center of each row of 
grains on 6 medium sized ears of corn and scrape the pulp 



JULY MENUS 369 

from the cob. Put a layer of the corn in the bottom of a 
(buttered baking dish, cover with a layer of cracker or bread 
crumbs, add 3^ t sah, % t pepper and I T butter, sprinkled 
in dots over the crumbs. Then add another layer of corn, 
then crumbs and seasonings, having the last layer crumbs. 
Pour milk over all until it comes to the top of the crumbs. 
Bake in a moderate oven about ^ h, or until the corn is 
cooked. Canned corn may be used in the same way. 
Mint Punch 

Wash 3 bunches of mint thoroughly, chop fine, cover with 
I qt. Iboiling water and steep ^/^ h. To the juice of 2 lemons 
add ^ c sugar, stir well, then strain into it the water from 
the mint. Color with leaf green and serve very cold or 
frozen to a mush. 
Pineapple Fancy 

Whip I pt. of cream until stiff, add ^ c powdered sugar, 
^ c fresh or canned pineapple cut into small pieces, ^ c 
peach, either fresh or canned. Mix well and serve on 
rounds of angel or sponge cake, or by itself in sherbet 
glasses. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before dinner prepare the roast and place in 
the oven. At this time also make the mint punch and whip 
the cream for the dessert so that they may be thoroughly 
chilled. 

One h before dinner blanch the rice and start to cooking. 
Also prepare the corn, then finish the rice and place both 
rice and corn in the oven. While they are cooking finish 
the dessert, put out into sherbet cups, if served without cake, 
and set in a cool place until needed. Cut the bread and 
butter and place on the table, also put the punch in a small 
punch bowl or glasses. Put the roast on a warm platter and 
serve the rice and corn in the dishes in which they were 
baked. 

Tuesday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Roast Mutton (2 lbs.) $0.40 1,932 

Baked Savory Rice 06 532 

Scalloped Corn 123 750 

Mint Punch 062 842 

Pineapple Fancy 102 597 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner $0,785 4,713 

Total for Day 1.456 9.054 

Per Day per Person 364 2,263 



3Vv, LESSONS IN COOKING 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 225 

GRAPENUTS WITH SLICED BANANAS AND CREAM 
BAKED EGGS TOAST 

COFFEE 

Baked Eggs 

Butter the inside of 4 earthen ramikins, into each slip an 
egg, season with salt and pepper and set in a warm oven 
until the whites are firm. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the baked eggs and set in a slow oven, then make 
the coffee and toast. When the latter is done place in the 
oven until ready to serve. Fill the cereal bowls with 4 T 
grapenuts, over the top of each slice ^ banana. Serve the 
cereal, then the eggs, toast and coffee. 

If not possible to buy brown bread, make immediately 
after breakfast, steaming first, then finishing, in the oven 
while preparing the luncheon. See p. 31. 

Wednesday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Grapenuts $0,025 50 

Sliced Bananas 04 200 

Baked Eggs 076 500 

Toast and Butter 038 600 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Cereal and Coffee 062 400 

Sugar for Cereal and Coffee 007 233 

Total Breakfast ' $0,288 1,983 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER. 
Wednesday Lesson 226 

MUTTON AND TOMATO PIE 

BREAD AND BUTTER 

BLUEBERRY TARTS ICED CHOCOLATE 

Mutton and Tomato Pie 

Cover the bottom of a buttered baking dish with bread 
crumbs, over this a layer of sliced tomatoes, then slices of 
cold roast mutton. Season with y^ t salt and dash of pepper, 
also dot with i T butter. Over this spread another layer of 
crumbs, then tomatoes, then meat, then another layer of 
tomatoes for the top. Season as before with salt, pepper 
and butter. Bake in a moderate oven ^ h and serve at once. 



JUL¥ MENUS 371 

Blueberry Tarts 

Follow directions given on p. 130 for plain pastry — ij4 c 
flour, % t salt, jS4 t baking powder and ^ c shortening. 

Into each tart put 2 T of a mixture made of 3^ c blue- 
berries, % c sugar, I t vinegar and J/^ T flour. Bake in a 
moderately hot oven until the crust is brown and crisp. 

Iced Chocolate 

Melt an ounce square of chocolate, or use 2 T grated, 
add 2 T sugar, i t cornstarch and % t salt, well mixed, 
stir in I c jboiling water and boil for 5 m ; add 3 c milk 
scalded in a double boiler and beat well with a whisk or 
egg beater. Let cool and serve ice cold. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 1^4 h before luncheon make the chocolate and set 
aside to cool, then make the pastry, using part for the cus- 
tard pie for dinner and the rest for the tarts. Finish the 
pie and tarts and set in a cool place until ready to bake. 
Now scrub well 4 potatoes and put in the oven to bake. 
These are to be used for the salad at night. Now prepare 
the mutton and tomato pie and put into oven, also put the 
pie and tarts in the oven. Five m before the mutton pie is 
done cut the bread and butter and place on the table, then 
serve the rest of the luncheon. Immediately after luncheon 
prepare the Moulded Salmon for dinner. 

Wednesday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Mutton and Tomato Pie ?0.1S7 1,241 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Blue Berry Tarts 049 897 

Iced Chocolate 074 832 

Total Luncheon 348 3,570 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 227 

MOULDED SALMON BAKED POTATO SALAD 

CRESS BROWN BREAD AND BUTTER 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE 

Moulded Salmon 

Remove salmon from i can, rinse thoroughly with hot 
water, drain and separate into flakes. Cover ^ T granu- 
lated gelatine with 2 T cold water and soak 15 m or longer. 



372 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Mix well together in the upper part of double boiler }i T 
salt, 13^ T sugar, ^ T flour, i t mustard, few grains 
cayenne, then add the yolks of 2 eggs, i>4 T melted butter, 
^ c milk and }i c vinegar. Stir all together and cook over 
hot water until the mixture thickens. It should be stirred 
constantly while cooking. Now add the soaked gelatine, 
stir until dissolved, then strain and add to the flaked salmon. 
Fill individual moulds, chill and serve. 

Baked Potato Salad 

Peel 4 baked potatoes, while warm if possible, and cut in 
small cubes. Add i small cucumber, y^ onion and i stalk 
celery or radish chopped fine. Add 54 c nut meats, cover 
with salad dressing (p. 29), mix all well together and set 
away in a cool place until needed. If the salad is mixed 
while the potatoes are warm the flavors seem to blend much 
better than when the ingredients are all :cold. (Boiled pota- 
toes may be used.) 

Cocoanut Custard Pie 

Beat 3 whole eggs and i yolk until light, add ^ t salt 
and }i c sugar and beat again. Add i c grated cocoanut 
and 2^ c milk, mix all well together, turn into a deep pie 
plate lined with paste and bake until the custard is set. Beat 
the white of i egg until stifif, add i T sugar, beat well, 
spread on the top of the pie and brown in the oven to a 
delicate brown. 

Preparing the Meal 

If the Moulded Salmon and Baked Potato Salad have 
been made immediately after lunch the pie made with other 
things during the preparation of lunch 10 m before dinner 
time will be time enough to cut the bread and butter, un- 
mould the salmon onto plates garnished with cress, serve 
the salad on salad plates, cut the brown bread, fill the water 
glasses and serve the dinner. 

Wednesday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Moulded Salmon $0,149 1,065 

Baked Potato Salad 14 1,068 

Cress 05 50 

Bread and Butter. '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. '.'.".'.'.'. .038 600 

Cocoanut Custard Pie 114 1,835 

Total Dinner $0,503 4,618 

Total for Day 1.139 10,171 

Per Day per Person 285 2,542 



JUL¥ MENUS 373 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 228 

FRUIT 

RICE AND CHEESE RAREBIT ON TOAST 

COFFEE 

Fruit 

Serve any fresh fruit convenient and desired, such as 
berries, sliced bananas, oranges, grapefruit, etc. 
Rice Rarebit 

Melt I T butter, add i T flour, ^ t salt, i t mustard, 
^ t paprika, and when well blended add slowly i c milk. 
Cook, stirring constantly until creamy, then add ^ c cheese 
;cut into small pieces. When melted add ^ c cooked rice. 
Heat thoroughly and serve on hot buttered toast or wafers. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the rice and cheese rarebit, and while cooking 

make the coffee and toast, and then prepare the fruit. Serve 

the fruit, then the rarebit, toast and coffee. 

Thursday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Oranges $0.05 150 

Rice Rarebit 094 808 

Toast 012 300 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Coffee 031 200 

Sugar for Fruit and Coffee 007 233 

Total Breakfast $0,234 1,791 

i 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 229 

TOMATO, CUCUMBER AND WALNUT SALAD 

SALMON JELLY SANDWICHES 

TEA CAKES MILK 

Tomato, Cucumber and Walnut Salad 

Cut 3^ cucumber into ^ in. cubes, let stand in cold salt 
water to crisp. Cut a slice from the stem end of each of 4 
peeled tomatoes. Scoop out the interior pulp, keeping the 
pieces as solid as possible. Add the cucumbers, 3^ c walnut 
meats cut into small pieces and the tomato pulp. Cover with 
salad dressing and fill the tomato shells, the interior of which 
has been sprinkled with salt. 



374 LESSONS IN COOKING 

In season celery substituted for cucumber improves this 
salad. 

Salmon Jelly Sandwiches 

Spread thinly sliced pieces of bread with butter, cover with 
thin slices of the moulded salmon left from the preceding 
day, cover with another slice of bread, press well together, 
cut off the crusts, and cut into diamond or triangle shapes. 

"Lightning" Tea Cakes 

Place the flour sifter in the mixing bowl and put in it 
I V2 c flour, }i c fine granulated or powdered sugar, 2 t bak- 
ing powder, 3^ t salt. Sift into the bowl. 

In the measuring cup, melt 1/1 c butter (or oleo), break 
in 2 eggs, fill up the cup with milk. Add ^ t flavoring 
extract or saltspoon of spice. Mix with the dry ingredients 
and beat well two or three m. Bake in greased muffin tins 
in quick oven 15 m or till done. 

Variations : Add 2 T cocoa, or an ounce of melted choc- 
olate. Use brown sugar in place of white and season with 
spice or use melted maple sugar. 

Preparing the Meal 

About % h before luncheon time make the salad and mix 
the tea cakes. While they are baking, prepare the sand- 
wiches and place on the table. Serve the salad on individual 
plates, fill the glasses with milk, put the tea cakes on the side 
table. 

Make the sherbet for dinner, then slice the cucumbers and 

cover with salted ice water. 

Thursday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Tomato, Cucumber and Nut Salad $0,152 712 

Salmon Jelly Sandwiches 038 600 

Milk 066 400 

Tea Cakes { % Recipe) 110 1,624 

Total Luncheon $0,366 3,336 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 230 

BROILED PORTERHOUSE 

BOILED POTATOES CORN ON THE COB 

SLICED CUCUMBERS 

RASPBERRY SHERBET TEA CAKES 



JULY MENUS 375 

Broiled Porterhouse 

Follow directions given on p. 14 for Broiled Beefsteak. 
Corn on the Cob 

Carefully remove the husks and all silk from 6 ears of 
corn. Cover with boiling unsalted water and cook 10 m or 
until tender. Very young, tender corn needs very little cook- 
ing, while the older corn will sometimes require from 15 to 
20 m. If salt is added to the water, the corn turns a deep 
yellow color. 
Sliced Cucumbers 

Cut off the ends and pare rather thickly two medium sized 
cucumbers. Slice very thin and cover with ice cold salted 
water. Let stand ^ h or longer in the cold water. The 
slices will then be very crisp and fresh. Serve with oil and 
vinegar, salt and pepper, or omit the oil, as desired. 

Note. — Cucumbers are made more digestible by salting 
and covering with boiling water. Let stand 2 m, then pour 
off and cover with cold salted water. 

Raspberry Sherbet 

Make a syrup of i c sugar and 2 c water, boiling 10 m. 
Crush together 2 c raspberries and Yz c currants. Soak i t 
granulated gelatin in 2 T cold water 10 m, then dissolve over 
hot water. Add the fruit and dissolved gelatin to the syrup, 
J4 c of which has been reserved. Mix all well together and 
freeze, using equal portions salt and ice. When half frozen, 
open the can, taking care that no salt gets into the sherbet, 
and add a meringue made by beating the white of i Qgg until 
light and then add %. c syrup to it. This meringue seems 
to make the grain of the sherbet finer and the gelatin pre- 
vents its ready dissolution. Finish freezing, pack in salt and 
ice and let stand several hours. 
Preparing the Meal 

Immediately after luncheon, or in the morning, make 
the sherbet, freeze and pack. Also pare and slice the 
cucumbers and set away in salted ice water until needed. 
The long standing, will have no injurious effect, but will 
merely make them more crisp and palatable. About Yz h 
before dinner time, wash and scrape the potatoes and put 
on the stove to boil. Also prepare the corn for cooking and 



376 " LESSONS IN COOKING 

put on the stove lo m before serving. Corn should be served 

at once when done, as it deteriorates very rapidly when 

allowed to stand. If impossible to serve at once, remove 

from the water and keep warm in a dry place. Now broil 

the porterhouse and while that is cooking put the cucumbers 

onto salad plates, cut the bread and butter, fill the water 

glasses and put all on the table. Drain the potatoes and 

corn, and put into serving dishes, place the steak on a hot 

platter and serve the dinner. 

Thursday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Porterhouse Steak (1 lb.) $0.25 1,200 

Boiled Potatoes 04 600 

Corn on Cob 10 400 

Sliced Cucumbers 03 50 

Raspberry Sherbet 091 1,221 

Tea Cakes 055 812 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner $0,624 4,883 

Total for Day $1,124 10.010 

Per Day per Person 306 2,502 

BREAKFAST 
Friday Lesson 231 

MOULDED CREAM OF WHEAT 

WITH FRESH FRUIT 

CORN FRITTERS SYRUP 

COFFEE 

Moulded Cream of Wheat 

Cook Cream of Wheat according to directions on p. 17, 
the day before needed, pour into moulds, and serve with 
raspberries, currants, bananas, etc. 

Corn Fritters 

To I c grated corn pulp add 3^ c cracker or bread crumbs, 
or enough to hold the mixture together. Add 34 t baking 
powder, 5^ t salt, and a dash of pepper. Drop from a tea- 
spoon into hot, deep fat. Fry until golden brown in color ; 
drain on soft paper, and serve. 
Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the corn fritter mixture, then make the coffee, 
having the fat for frying the fritters heating in the mean- 
time. Turn out the cereal from the moulds, cover with 
fresh fruit, then fry the fritters and keep in a warm place 
until ready to serve. Serve the cereal, then the fritters, 
syrup, and coffee. 



JULY MENUS 377 

Immediately after breakfast, prepare the Pineapple Trifle 
and cook the eggs for the salad for lunch. 

Friday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Moulded Cream of Wheat $0,012 316 

Fresh Raspberries 10 200 

Corn Fritters 056 350 

Syrup 016 1,056 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Cereal and CofPee 062 400 

Sugar for Cereal and Coffee 007 233 

Total Breakfast $0,293 2,555 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 232 

EGG AND CHEESE SALAD 

BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

PINEAPPLE TRIFLE 

Egg and Cheese Salad 

Grate enough dry cheese to make }i c, and cook 6 eggs 
hard. In the bottom of a baking dish put a layer of hard 
cooked eggs, sliced. Cover with grated cheese, then another 
layer of eggs, then cheese, etc., until the ingredients have all 
been used. Sprinkle % c finely chopped sweet pickles over 
the top, and cover with salad dressing. 
Pineapple Trifle 

Pare and cut into cubes i small pineapple, and sprinkle 
with 14 c sugar. In the bottom of a dish arrange a layer of 
pineapple ; over this place a layer of cake crumbs, then 
another layer of fruit, and so on until the fruit is used. 
Have the top layer fruit. Set away in a cool place until 
ready to serve. This dish should be made several hours 
before serving, so that the cake will thoroughly take up the 
pineapple flavor. Use the cakes left from tea cakes the day 
before. 
Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the Pineapple Trifle for luncheon immediately 
after breakfast. Also at this tiine cook the eggs for the 
salad. Ten m before lunch time grate the cheese and 
make the salad ; make the bread and butter sandwiches ; fill 
the wlater glasses, put the pineapple trifle on plates and 
serve the luncheon. 

Immediately after lunch prepare the Iced Peaches for 
dinner, taking care that they are well covered with wax 



378 LESSONS IN COOKING 

paper so that they will not become discolored before serving. 
Also scald and peel the tomatoes. 

Friday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

Egg and Cheese Salad $0,166 1.200 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Pineapple Trifle 135 1,134 

Total Luncheon $0,339 2,934 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 233 

BAKED CODFISH IN CREAM 

MASHED POTATOES STRING BEANS IN BUTTER SAUCE 

SLICED TOMATOES 

ICED PEACHES STUFFED WITH NUTS 

Baked Codfish in Cream 

Soak I pound salt codfish over night; in the morning 
drain, cover with boiling, water, and parboil 20 m. In a 
saucepan melt 2 T butter, add 2 T flour, and when well 
blended add slowly 2 c milk. Cook, stirring constantly, until 
the mixture thickens, then remove from the fire. Drain the 
codfish, put in a baking dish, cover with the sauce just made, 
and bake in a slow oven until tender, about ^ h. In this 
case soak codfish all day, cooking it at night for dinner. 
Sliced Tomatoes 

Cover 3 medium sized tomatoes with boiling water, let 
stand a few minutes, drain, and with the tips of the fingers 
slip ofif the skins. Set away in a cold place and when thor- 
oughly chilled cut into slices with a sharp knife, about i^t 
inch thick. Arrange on salad plates and serve either with oil 
and vinegar, salad dressing, or vinegar and sugar, as desired. 

String Beans 

Wash 3 pt beans thoroughly, break ofif the ends, at the same 
time drawing them down the side of the bean to remove all 
"strings." Break into inch lengths, cover with boiling water, 
boil a few minutes, drain, again cover with boiling water, 
and cook until tender, from 20 to 60 m, depending upon the 
age of the beans. Drain, reserve 2 c, add i t salt, 2 T butter 
to the rest, and shake over the fire until the butter is melted, 
then serve. 
Iced Peaches Stuffed with Nuts 

Co"'?r 2 good sized peaches with boiling water. Let stand 



JULY MENUS 379 

a few m and slip off the skins. Then thoroughly chill. 
When cold, cut in two, remove the stones, and fill with a 
mixture made of 34 c each walnuts and almonds chopped 
fine, to which 34 c powdered sugar, i t lemon juice, and i T 
grape juice have been added. Place the filled peaches on a 
platter, thoroughly cover with waxed paper to prevent dis- 
coloration, and set in a cold place until ready to serve. Serve 
a half peach covered with whipped cream to each person. 
Preparing the Meal 

About I h before dinner time wash the beans and after 
breaking into inch lengths put on to cook. Then wash and 
scrape 4 medium sized potatoes and cover with cold water 
until ready to cook. Parboil the codfish, which has been 
soaking all day, and while that is cooking make the cream 
sauce. Drain codfish and prepare for the oven ; then put 
the potatoes on to cook. Now whip the cream for the 
peaches, and then slice the tomatoes peeled immediately 
after luncheon, and place the latter on the table. Arrange 
the peaches previously stuffed on serving, dishes, cover with 
whipped cream, and set in a cool place until ready to serve. 
Drain and mash the potatoes, drain the string beans, reserv- 
ing a portion for salads, add the seasonings, then remove 
the codfish from the oven, put the bread and butter on the 
table, fill the water glasses, and serve the dinner. 

Friday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Baked Codfish in Cream $0,218 1,050 

Mashed Potatoes 057 700 

String Beans 117 300 

Sliced Tomatoes 05 75 

Iced Peaches Stuffed 124 730 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner $0,604 3,455 

Total for Day 1.136 8,944 

Per Day per Person 309 2,272 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 234 

PUFFED RICE CREAM AND SUGAR 

CODFISH PUFFS CREAM SAUCE 

BREAD AND BUTTER COFFEE 

Codfish Puffs 

To 3^ c cooked codfish, broken into small pieces, add i c 
mashed potatoes, the yolk of i egg, 34 c flour, 3^ t baking 



380 LESSONS IN COOKING 

powder, and % t pepper. Mix well together, then add thj 
stiffly beaten white of the egg. Drop from the tip of a 
spoon into hot fat, and fry until golden brown in color. 
Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the codfish puffs, then make the coffee. While 
the latter is cooking, make the cream sauce (Medium White 
Sauce), having the fat for the puffs heating in the mean- 
time. Cut the bread and butter, fall the cream pitcher, half 
fill the cereal bowls with puffed rice, and place all on the 
table. Then fry the puffs. Serve the cereal, then the codfish 
puffs, bread and butter and coffee. 

Saturday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Puffed Rice 10.025 730 

Codfish Puffs 036 300 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Coffee 04 

Cream for Cereal and Coffee 062 400 

Sugar for Cereal and Coffee 007 233 

Total Breakfast $0,208 2,263 

SATURDAY MORNING BAKING 
Baked Custard 

Four eggs beaten slightly, i>^ c sugar, }i t salt, i qt milk; 
bake slowly in cups set in a pan of hot water, p. 26. 
Sponge Cake 

Separate the yolks and whites of 4 eggs, and beat the 
whites until stiff. Make a syrup of ij^ c sugar and ^ c 
water, boiling a very few minutes, and add slowly to the 
egg whites, stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
until thick and lemon colored and add to the white mixture, 
carefully folding them in. Now sift 2 c pastry flour with i t 
baking powder, twice, and fold into the egg mixture. Add 
^ t almond extract, and i t vanilla, or y^ t each vanilla and 
lemon. Turn into an angel cake pan, if available, if not a 
square pan and bake in a slow oven until the cake shrinks 
away from the sides of the pan and is golden brown in color. 
Oatmeal Cookies 

Cream 3^ c butter and }^ c sugar well together, add i T 
milk, 2 well beaten eggs, 34 c raisins, chopped and dredged 
with flour, and 2 c oatmeal. Mix all thoroughly, then add 
2 c flour mixed and sifted with 3^ t cinnamon, 34 t soda. 
Roll out on a floured board until about }4 inch thick; cut 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



JULY MENUS 381 

Cream of Fruits 

Soak 2 T granulated gelatin \n % c cold water for ^^ h, 
then dissolve in % c hot milk. Add i c sugar, and i c fresh 
fruit cut into pieces. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff, 
and whip i c cream, mix the two, and when the gelatin mix- 
ture cools, pour into the cream. Turn into a mould and 
chill. Serve very cold. Peach, apricot, pineapple, berries, 
etc., alone, or in combinations ; fresh, canned, or dried fruit 
may be used. 

Method of Work 

Make Baked Custard. Put gelatin to soak for Cream of 
Fruits. Make Sponge Cake, and while baking dissolve 
gelatin and set to cool ; then make Oatmeal Cookies, and 
bake as soon as cake is done. Finish making the Cream of 
Fruits. If desired, frost the cake, using the white of i Qg§, 
and use the yolk with the yolks of 2 eggs left from the 
Cream of Fruits to make the boiled salad dressing, p. 29. 
Or the 2 yolks may replace i egg in the Baked Custard. 

Clean and cut up the chicken for Sunday Dinner and set 
aside in cool place. 

LUNCHEON 
Saturday Lesson 235 

STRING BEAN SALAD BAKED TOMATOES 

BREAD AND BUTTER 

BAKED CUSTARD 

String Bean Salad 

To I c cooked string beans add 2 hard cooked eggs sliced, 
% c nut meats, %. c chopped sweet pickles and 34 t salt. 
Cover with salad dressing and serve on lettuce leaf. 
Baked Tomatoes 

Cut a slice from the end of each of 4 tomatoes, and scoop 
out the pulp, taking care that the outer shell remains firm 
and retains its shape well. Season the pulp with i t salt, 
]/4. t pepper, %. t onion juice, add ^ c bread crumbs and 2 T 
melted butter. Mix all well together, return to the shells 
and bake ^ h or until tender in a moderate oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 40 m before luncheon time prepare the tomatoes 
and place in the oven. Then make the string bean salad 



382 LESSONS IN COOKING 

from the beans left from Friday dinner ; cook the eggs for 
it while preparing the tomatoes. Mix the salad and set in 
a cold place until ready to serve. Ten m before luncheon 
cut the bread and butter, serve the custard baked in the 
morning, fill the glasses, serve the salad, and place all on 
the table. Remove the tomatoes from the oven, and serve 
the luncheon. 

Saturday Luncheon — Cost Food Units 

String Bean Salad $0,006 625 

Baked Tomatoes 0!)3 450 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Baked Custard 096 1,328 

Total Luncheon $0,323 2,703 

DINNER 

Saturday Lesson 236 

SCALLOPED HAM POTATOES 

BAKED GREEN PEAS 

CREAM OF FRUITS SPONGE CAKE 

Scalloped Ham 

Cut 4 potatoes into thin slices. Chop finely i onion, 2 
carrots, and i bunch parsley. Cover the bottom of a but- 
tered baking, dish with a layer of potatoes, over this a layer 
of the mixed chopped vegetables. Season with salt and 
pepper, then add a >< -pound slice of ham cut into 3 or 4 
pieces. Proceed as before, using another slice of ham for the 
top. Add 2 c milk, and bake in a slow oven for ij^ h. 
Baked Green Peas 

Shell 2 qts green peas, place in a small baking dish, cover 
with water, and bake slowly 30 m, letting the water cook 
down ; then add 2 t flour mixed in I/2 c cream or milk, J4 t 
salt and a little pepper. Bake 10 m more. Serve in the 
baking dish. 
Preparing the Meal 

About i^ h before dinner time, prepare the scalloped 
ham and place in the oven. Prepare the baked peas and put 
in the oven }i h before dinner. Fifteen m before dinner 
season the peas, first reserving ^ c for the Salamagundi 
Salad. Cut the cake made in the morning, also serve the 
Cream of Fruits, keeping in a cool place until ready to use. 
Fill the water glasses, and serve the dinner. 



JULY MENUS 



383 



Saturday Dinner— Cost food Units 

Scalloped Ham (1 lb.) $0.26 1,903 

Potatoes 04 600 

Baked Green Peas 123 450 

Cream of Fruits 174 1,710 

Cake ( 14 Recipe) 027 696 

Bread and Butter 038 600 

Total Dinner .$0,663 5,959 

Total for Day 1.194 10,925 

Per Day per Person 298 2,756 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 237 

FRESH FRUIT 
SOFT COOKED EGGS TOAST 

COFFEE OATMEAL COOKIES 

Soft Cooked Eggs 

Heat a quart of water to boiling, move from the source of 
heat, lower in 4 eggs gently, cover and let stand 8 to 10 m. 
See p. 10. 
Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the fruit, whatever may be available, berries, 
pineapple, bananas, etc., and place on the table. Start 
the eggs to cooking, then make the cofifee and toast. Put 
some cookies on the table, and serve the breakfast, first the 
fruit, then the eggs, toast and coffee. 

Immediately after breakfast make the Peach Parfait for 
dinner, mould, seal and pack; then the Salamagundi Salad. 

Sunday Breakfast — Cost Food Units 

Two Bananas $0.04 200 

Eggs soft cooked 068 400 

Toast and Butter 038 600 

Cream for Fruit and Coffee 062 400 

Sugar for Fruit and Coffee 007 2.33 

Oatmeal Cookies (1/6 Recipe) 025 478 

Total Breakfast $0,280 2,311 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 238 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN NEW POTATOES 

SALAMAGUNDI SALAD 

PEACH PARFAIT CAKE 

Smothered Chicken 

Cut a tender fowl into pieces for serving, spread with 2 T 
butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and arrange in a 
stewpan. Add i c boiling water, cover, and cook slowly 
until the chicken is tender. For a young fowl, i h will be 



384 LESSONS IN COOKING 

ample. Longer time will be required for an old one. Add 
I c cream and 2 c fresh mushrooms cut into small pieces. 
Recover, cook 10 m longer, thicken the gravy with a roux 
made of i T butter and i^ T flour, and cook 3 m, stirring 
all the time. Serve at once. 

Salamagundi Salad 

In the bottom of small moulds, or one large mould, place 
a layer of bottled "pearl onions." Line the sides of the 
moulds with alternate strips of red and green sweet peppers 
or pimentoes and green string beans. Over the pearl onions 
place a layer of sliced tomatoes, then string beans, then a few 
cooked peas, with sliced tomatoes on top. Soak 2 T granu- 
lated gelatin in 54 c cold water, dissolve in i^ c boiling 
water, add 6 T lemon juice, and ^ c sugar. Mix all well 
together, and pour over the salad, until it comes to the top 
of the moulds. Set away in a cold place until well set, chill, 
then turn out of the moulds, and serve. Asparagus may be 
used instead of the beans, and other substitutes may be made 
if desired. 

Peach Parfait 

Slice thinly enough peaches to make }i c, and cover with 
J^ c sugar. Cook ^ c sugar and 2 T water to the thread 
stage, and pour onto the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs, beat- 
ing, well all the time. While this is cooling whip i c cream 
stiff, then press the peaches through a sieve, and add to 
the egg mixture, together with the juice of ^ lemon. Fold 
in the whipped cream, turn into a mould, seal, and bury in 
equal portions of salt and chopped ice. Let stand for 3 
or 4 h. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 13^ h before dinner put the chicken prepared the 
previous day on to cook. Also at this time scrape the new 
potatoes and cover with cold water until time to cook. Half 
an hour before dinner cook the potatoes, and 10 m before 
dinner cut the bread and butter, unmould the Salamagundi 
Salad made in the morning, fill the glasses, and place on the 
table. Cut the cake and place on a side table until needed. 
Serve the dinner. 



JULY MENUS 385 

Sunday Dinner — Cost Food Units 

Smothered Chicken (IVa lbs.) 297 1,068 

New Potatoes 04 600 

Salamagundi Salad 131 778 

Peach Parf ait 10 1,554 

Cake 027 696 

Bread and Butter 038 600 



Total Dinner $0,633 5,296 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 239 

CLUB SANDWICHES 
RASPBERRIES AND CREAM 

Club Sandwiches 

On pieces of hot buttered toast arrange slices of broiled 
bacon. Over this place slices of cold cooked chicken, and 
over the chicken spread salad dressing. Cover with another 
piece of toast, and serve. 
Raspberries 

Wash and stem the berries, cover with sugar, and serve 
with cream. 

Preparing the Meal 

About 15 m before supper, broil 8 thin slices of bacon, 
and while cooking make 8 slices of toast. Prepare the ber- 
ries and place on the table, then finish making the sand- 
wiches, and serve the supper. 

SDND.4Y Supper — - Cost Food Units 

Club Sandwiches 174 1,412 

Red Raspberries and Sugar 088 728 

Cream for Berries 031 200 

Total Supper $0,293 2,340 

Total for Dav 1.206 9,947 

Per Day per Person 301 2,487 

JULY aiENUS— COST AND FOOD VALUES— FOUR PEKSONS 

Summary — Cost Food Units 

Monday— Total $1,153 9,735 

Tuesday — Total 1.456 9,054 

Wednesday— Total 1.139 10,171 

Thursday— Total 1.124 10,010 

Friday- Total 1.136 8,944 

Saturday— Total 1.194 10,925 

Sunday— Total 1.206 9,947 

Total for Week (4) $8,408 68,786 

Total for Week (1) 2.102 17,196 

AvER.^GE PER Day per Person. . . .300 2,456 



386 LESSONS IN COOKING 

CHILD'S FOURTH OF JULY PARTY 

Lesson 240 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

NEW POTATO BALLS IN CREAM RED RADISHES 

RED BEETS 

HOT ROLLS 

RASPBERRY, PINEAPPLE, AND PLUM SALAD 

WITH 

LEMON CREAM SAUCE 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM COOKIES 

TORPEDO CANDIES 

Colors — Red, White and Blue 

Table Decorations — Flag napkins may be used, and an 
eagle with flags crossed at each side of it for a center 
decoration. 
Salmon Croquettes 

Remove skin and bones from i large can of salmon, break 
into small pieces. Add to i c Thick White Sauce, with i t 
salt, few grains cayenne, i t lemon juice, shape and cool. 
When ready to fry, egg and crumb and fry in deep fat to a 
delicate brown. In this case shape as firecrackers, sticking, a 
piece of spaghetti in one end to simulate the fuse. 
Raspberry, Pineapple and Plum Salad 

Wash and hull i c red raspberries, add ^ c pineapple cut 
into cubes, and i c red plums cut into quarters. Cover with 
Lemon Cream Sauce. 
Lemon Cream Sauce 

To ^ c cream, whipped, add 4 T sugar and 3 T lemon 
juice. See p. 99. Mix and pour over the salad. 
Strawberry Ice Cream 

See p. 350, using preserved fruit, since the fresh is unob- 
tainable at this time. Red raspberries might be substituted. 
Lemon Cookies 

Cream i c butter, add 2 c sugar, and cream well. Add the 
grated rind and juice of i lemon, yolks of 3 eggs beaten 
well, whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, about 5^4 c flour. Mix 
all well, and, if there is time, chill the dough before rolling 
out. Toss onto a floured board and roll very thin, cut with 



JULY MENUS 387 

cooky cutter, and bake in a moderate oven until golden 
brown in color. 

In this case color part of the dough red and make the 
cookies in red and white stripes put together, and cut in star 
shapes if possible ; then frost with colored frosting. 

Torpedo Candies 

For Torpedoes use Wilbur's Chocolate Buds, 
Preparing the Menu 

In the morning prepare the dough for the rolls, then pre- 
pare and mould the croquettes, and set in a cold place. Make 
the Strawberry Ice Cream and when frozen pack and let 
stand until needed. Work down the bread dough and set to 
rise again, then make the cookies, and while baking prepare 
the fruit for the salad, and also make the Lemon Cream 
Sauce. Mix the fruit and let stand until ready to serve, then 
add the Cream Sauce. Knead the dough, shape the biscuits, 
and set to rise. Scrape the new potatoes and with a vege- 
table cutter cut into balls, and let stand in cold water until 
ready to cook. If possible, cut the radishes and pickled beets 
into stars. Mould the butter in some fancy shape. A flag 
or cannon ball would be very appropriate. By this time the 
rolls are ready to be baked, and should be put in the oven. 

About 3^ h before serving time heat the fat for the cro- 
quettes, then put the potato balls on to cook. Fry the cro- 
quettes, draining them on soft paper. Make i c Medium 
White Sauce for the Potato Balls, then put the Lemon 
Cream Sauce on the Salad, and put out in sherbet cups. 
Keep in a cool place until needed. If necessary, reheat the 
rolls before serving, or retard rising by setting in a cold 
place and bake just in time for serving. 

Serve the croquettes, potato balls, radishes, beets, and hot 
rolls, then the salad, then the ice cream, moulded with a 
round scoop to represent cannon balls, cookies and candies. 

THE PICNIC LUNCH BASKET 

The picnic lunch basket affords an opportunity for a dis- 
play of one's ingenuity in planning appetizing menus. The 
fact that food must be in such form that it may easily be 
carried limits the list somewhat, but notwithstanding this 
drawback many delicious things may be provided. Since 



388 LESSONS IN COOKING 

there is usually no way of keeping food hot, such as are not 
deteriorated by cold are selected. 

Among the suitable meats may be mentioned fried chicken, 
veal loaf, beef loaf, sliced corned beef, cold boiled ham, 
sliced roast pork, beef or veal, cold boiled eggs, pork and 
beans, etc. 

Then there are a number of good yet easily prepared 
salads, which are always acceptable, such as potato, salmon, 
eggs, stuffed eggs, shrimp and celery, beet and potato, com- 
bination, cold slaw, pickles, etc. 

The breads furnish a large variety, beginning with plain 
rolls, Parker House rolls, finger rolls, bread sticks, butter 
rolls, and ending, with sandwiches, as Russian, ham, cheese 
and salted nuts, egg, pimento, nut and cheese, meat, sar- 
dines, chicken, lemon butter, date and English walnut, fig 
and nut, etc. 

Among the sweets are doughnuts, cookies, oatmeal maca- 
roons, cakes, loaf cake, layer cakes with solid filling, sponge 
cake, salted nuts, stuffed figs and dates, candies, fruits of all 
kinds, jellies and jams. 

For lemonade, extract the juice of the lemons, add sugar 
in the proportion of ^ c to each lemon, put into glass jars 
or bottles and cover tightly. It is better to make a syrup of 
the sugar, using just enough hot water to dissolve it, boil 
about I m then add to the juice. A dash of salt is a great 
improvement. One medium sized lemon will make i pint of 
lemonade or two good sized glasses. 



AUGUST MENUS 




Curd from a good milk. Large, irregular mechanical holes. 




Curd from a tainted milk. Large, irregular mechanical holes; 
small pinholes due to gas. 




Curd from foul milk. 
THE WISCONSIN CURD TEST 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

Part XII 



FOOD ADULTERATIONS. 

The adulteration of foods should be a subject of great 
interest to the housekeeper from the economic as well as 
the food value standpoints. 

Adulterations may be classified as follows: — (i) Substi- 
tutions, (2) Partial Substitutions, (3) Use of Preserva- 
tives, (4) Artificial Coloring, (5) Artificial products, (6) 
Misbranding. 

Substitutions — a different article entirely is ofifered in 
place of the genuine, as for instance, the essence of the 
tonka bean, instead of the vanilla for vanilla extract, peach 
pits for almonds, horse flesh for beef, cotton seed oil for 
olive oil, glucose for honey, etc. In each case a cheaper 
article is offered at the same price of the more expensive. 
This, then, is simply a matter of deception, making the 
people pay for something they are not getting. 

Partial Substitutions — a part only of the genuine 
article is replaced by the adulterant, such as chicory and 
parched grains mixed with coffee, ground nut shells, saw- 
dust, etc., in spices, glucose in place of sugar in jellies, pre- 
serves, candies, etc., stems of plants in tea, etc. Here as 
in total substitutions, the harm lies in the fraud perpetrated, 
as no injurious effects will result from the use of such 
articles. 

Preservatives, such as salicylic, benzoic acid, boric acids 
and formaldehyde in canned fruits and vegetables, catsups, 
mince meats, milk, and meat may have, however, injur- 
ious effects on digestion and nutrition, particularly for chil- 
dren and invalids. While it is true that their use has been 
very largely regulated by the pure food laws, nevertheless 
in some foods harmful preservatives are still used. If pres- 
ent in large quantities they may be detected by the flavor, 
but usually the amount used is so small that detection, 
except by chemical tests, is difficult. 

Copyright, 1912, Home Economics Association. 

389 



390 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Artificial Coloring is employed as a rule to intensify 
the natural color of the food product. Examples may be 
found in the use of copper to make green tea, in coloring 
pickles, beans, peas, tomatoes, etc., and in the dyes used in 
fruits, ice cream, confections, etc. The effects are injurious 
or not according to the dye used. In general the vegetable 
dyes are less harmful than the aniline dyes but a few of 
the vegetable coloring matters are injurious and some of 
the aniline dyes have no effect on digestion. 

In artificial products a manufactured article is used in 
place of the natural one. Fruit flavorings in which nothing 
but chemicals have been used to obtain the desired flavor, 
such as banana, peach, strawberry, raspberry, pineapple, 
etc., are striking examples of artificial products. Commer- 
cial glucose made by treating starch with acid, wooden nut- 
megs and oleomargarine are other examples. 

Misbranding is the form of deception practiced most 
often upon the housekeeper. While the pure food laws have 
required the proper naming of the article, and the printing 
of the formula upon the label, the latter is usually done in 
such a way as to escape the notice of the less observant as it 
appears in very fine print compared to the name. For ex- 
ample a bottle of vanilla is labelled "Vanilla" in very large 
type, while the word "Compound" is printed in very small 
type beneath it. Consequently in purchasing look carefully 
at the label to be sure you are getting and paying for what 
you zvant as far as you are able to see. 

While many of these substitutions, adulterations, etc., do 
not lessen the food value of the article, they do decrease 
its economic value ; consequently it is wise for the house- 
keeper to know some of the methods of adulterations and 
the tests for their detection. 

The following are some of the simpler methods for the 
detection of adulterations in foods : 

To Detect Adulterants in Coffee 

I. Shake some ground coffee in cold water. Pure coffee 
usually floats on the surface, while ordinary adulterants 
sink; chicory colors the water a brownish red. 



AUGUST MENUS 391 

To Test Extracts 

1. Vanilla 

Evaporate a quantity of the extract to about y^ its orig- 
inal volume. Add enough water to restore the first volume. 
The resins which give the flavor will appear as a brown 
feathery mass which sinks to the bottom or "precipitates." 
If a precipitate is formed, add a few drops of hydrochloric 
acid, stir, filter through a small funnel in which filter paper 
is folded and wash out the acid by pouring water through 
the filter three or four times. Dissolve the precipitate on 
the paper with a little alcohol. Divide this into two por- 
tions. To one add a piece of ferric alum, and to the other 
a few drops of hydrochloric acid. If neither produces more 
than a slight change of color, the pure extract of the vanilla 
bean was used. If there is a distinct change of color, ex- 
tracts from other sources are present. 

2. Lemon 

To a test tube nearly filled with water add i t of the ex- 
tract. If the real lemon is present it will come out of solu- 
tion and will give a turbid appearance to the solution, and 
will form an oily layer on the top of the water. If the solu- 
tion remains clear after diluting with water, very little if 
any oil of lemon is present. 

To Test for Sulphides 

1. Wet the sample of meat or other food with water 
and stir well. 

2. Pour into a flask or wide mouth bottle and add small 
pieces of pure zinc and a little hydrochloric acid. If sul- 
phide preservatives are present the unpleasant odor of 
hydrogen sulphide will be noticed. To test this dip a piece 
of filter paper into lead acetate solution and suspend it in 
the flask. A black color on the paper indicates the presence 
of hydrogen sulphide. 

To Detect Alum in Baking Powder 

1. Put some logwood chips in a small agate-ware dish, 
cover with water, and bring to a boil. Throw the water 
away. Do this three times, then save the fourth extract. 

2. Fill a test tube about half full of water and add i t 
baking powder. Warm it and shake till effervescence 



392 LESSONS IN COOKING 

ceases, then add a drop or two of hydrochloric acid to make 
the solution acid. 

3. To this solution add 4 or 5 drops of the logwood ex- 
tract. A bluish red color indicates the presence of alum. 
A yellow color shows its absence. Try a small bit of alum 
dissolved in water with the logwood extract to become 
familiar with the color. 
To Test Ice Cream 

1. For glucose: 

Add an equal quantity of Fehling's solution to i t of the 
cream to be tested and boil. If a red precipitate appears 
glucose is present. 

2. For starch : 

Add a few drops of tincture of iodine. A dark blue color 
indicates the presence of starch, 

3. For gelatine: 

To 3 T of ice cream add 6 T of cold water and 3 T of 
acid mercuric nitrate. Shake vigorously, then let stand 5 
minutes. Filter through filter paper. If much gelatine be 
present, it will be impossible to get a clear solution. Mix 
a portion of the filtrate with an equal amount of a strong 
("saturated") water solution of picric acid. If any gelatine 
be present a yellow precipitate will be produced immediately. 

To Test for Artificial Coloring in Candy and Jellies 

1. Place some of the sample in water and boil to dis- 
solve it. 

2. Place in this liquid a few pieces of white woolen 
yarn, and boil for 5 or 10 m, stirring occasionally. 

3. Remove the yarn and wash in hot water. If it re- 
mains brightly colored, the presence of artificial dyes is 
shown. 

4. To make the test more certain boil the yarn so colored 
in dilute ammonia for 5 m. The artificial coloring matter 
will dissolve in ammonia. If this is colored, add hydro- 
chloric acid drop by drop until the solution is acid as tested 
by blue litmus paper. 

5. In this solution now place some fresh white yarn and 
boil. 

6. Remove and wash in water. If the yarn is colored 
the presence of artificial dyes is proved for certain. 



AUGUST MENUS 393 

To Test for Preservatives in Milk 

1. Formaldehyde: 

Place in a test tube 3 T of milk and add an equal volume 
of concentrated sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, and a piece 
of iron alum about the size of a pin head. Mix the liquids 
with a gentle rotary motion. 

Place the tube in a dish filled with boiling water and 
allow to stand 5 m. A purplish color of the mixture shows 
the presence of formaldehyde. 

2. Borax or Boric Acid: 

Dissolve }i t alum in i c water and add 5^ c milk. 
Shake vigorously and filter. Pour a part, about i T, of the 
filtrate into a test tube and add a few drops of concen- 
trated hydrochloric acid. 

Dip a piece of turmeric paper into this and dry it over a 
gas flame. Place a drop of strong ammonia on the paper. 
A cherry red before adding the ammonia and a dark green 
or greenish black color after, shows the presence of borax 
or boric acid. 

To Test for Oleomargarine 

1. Melt a small bit of the sample in a spoon, stirring 
with a splint of wood. Oleomargarine and renovated butter 
sputter and boil noisily without producing foam, while real 
butter boils quietly and produces much foam. 

2. Fill a test tube half full of skimmed milk, heat and 
add I teaspoonful of the sample of butter. Stir with a 
splint until the fat melts. Now place the tube in very cold 
water or in ice until the fat hardens, stirring all the time. 
If the sample is oleo, it will harden in one mass and may be 
lifted out on the splint of wood. If it is butter either 
fresh or renovated, it solidifies in small particles scattered 
all through the milk. 

To Test for Cottonseed Oil 

I. Add 2 or 3 T Halphen Reagent (prepared by the 
druggist) to an equal volume of the suspected oil in a test 
tube or small bottle. Heat very carefully to avoid burning 
in a vessel of boiling salt water made by dissolving i T salt 
in I pt. water. Boil 10-15 m. At the end of that time a 



394 LESSONS IN COOKING 

distinct reddish color indicates a small amount of cotton 
seed oil, a dark red color, a large amount of cotton seed oil. 

Before making tests always try the method with a small 
amount of the substance being tested for present, so as to 
become familiar zvith the color or precipitate produced. 

The chemicals, test tubes, filter paper, etc., required in 
these tests can be obtained at almost any drug store. An 
alcohol lamp can be used as a source of heat if gas is not 
available. Further tests are described in Bulletin No. lOO 
of the Bureau of Chemistry, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 
which may be obtained by sending loc (coin) to the Super- 
intendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. 

Each State has its own laws in regard to adulteration of 
foods ; the National laws apply only to food products enter- 
ing into interstate commerce. Send to your State Board 
of Health or Pure Food Department (at the capitol city) 
for your local regulations and reports. 



AUGUST MENUS 

Monday Lesson 241 

BREAKFAST 

MAPLE FLAKE — CREAM AND SUGAR 

ORANGE OMELET TOAST 

COFFEE 

Orange Omelet 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs, add 4 t powdered sugar, 4 T 
orange juice, ^ t salt, and the grated rind of ^ orange. 
Beat the whites until stiff and then fold into the yolk mix- 
ture. Turn into a hot buttered omelet pan, cook very slowly 
until browned underneath, then put into the oven to finish 
cooking. Especial care will have to be taken in cooking 
this omelet that it does not burn, because the sugar will 
tend to make it scorch easier. 

Preparing the Meal 

Prepare the omelet mixture the first thing in the morn- 
ing, and start to cooking at very low temperature. Set the 
Maple Flake in the oven to crisp. Make the cofifee, then 
the toast. By this time the omelet is ready to finish in the 
oven in which the heat has been lowered. Place the butter 
and cream on the table, and serve the cereal, then the 
omelet, toast and coffee. 

Immediately after breakfast make the rice and cheese 
croquettes for lunch and set away in a cool place until 
ready to fry. Also prepare the Marguerites and Iced Tea. 

LUNCHEON 
Monday Lesson 242 

RICE AND CHEESE CROQUETTES 

WITH 

TOMATO SAUCE 

BREAD AND BUTTER MARGUERITES 

ICED TEA 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes 

Blanch i c rice according to directions given on p. 44, 
drain, add 4 c milk and cook in the double boiler until the 
rice is tender and dry. Reserve 2 c cooked rice, and to the 
rest add Yz c grated cheese and Yz c Thick White Sauce, 

395 



396 LESSONS IN COOKING 

p. 38, mix well, cool, shape and dip in egg and crumbs, 
then fry in hot fat. Serve with Tomato Sauce. 
Tomato Sauce 

Use 2 T butter, 2 T flour, i c strained tomatoes, ^ t 
salt, % t mace and i t finely chopped onions, blend and 
cook 2-3 m, stirring constantly. See p. 125 for details. 
Marguerites 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs until stiff, add 34 c powdered 
sugar, ^2 t salt, and beat until thick and creamy. Stir into 
the mixture % c nut meats chopped fine, spread on salted 
wafers, brown a moment in the oven. When cool serve. 
Reserve the yolks of the eggs for use Tuesday evening. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 15 m before lunch time put the fat for frying the 
croquettes on the stove to heat, then make the tomato sauce. 
Arrange the croquettes made in the morning in a frying 
basket and lower into the hot fat. While cooking cut the 
bread and butter, place some marguerites on a plate, chop 
some ice for the tea. Remove the croquettes from the fat, 
drain on brown paper, then serve the luncheon. 

Immediately after lunch prepare the Peaches for dinner 
and set in a cool place. 

DINNER 
Monday Lesson 243 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB 

MASHED POTATOES SPINACH 

PINEAPPLE AND CHEESE SALAD 

PEACHES IN BLOOM 

Roast Leg of Lamb 

Trim, sear in a hot oven 15 m, dredge with salt, pepper 
and flour, cook about 1^2 h., basting occasionally. See p. 
84 for details. Make gravy if desired. 
Mashed Potatoes 

Boil, mash, add about 3 T butter, ^ t salt and 5^ c milk ; 

p. 15- 
Spinach 

Wash thoroughly 2 qts. spinach, using at least 4 rinsing 
waters, so that it may be free of all sand and grit. Add 
about 3^ c water, cover and cook slowly until tender. This 



AUGUST MENUS 397 

will not require more than 15 m. Drain, chop finely, add 
I t salt, dash pepper, and juice of i lemon, or 2 T vinegar. 
Garnish with hard cooked eggs, cut into sHces. If spinach 
is not in the market, use string beans, see p. 378. 
Pineapple and Cheese Salad 

Cut a pineapple into slices about ^ inch thick, cutting 
across the fruit. Remove the skin, and also the hard core. 
Mix I cake of Neufchatel or Cream cheese with an equal 
quantity of salad dressing, then press this mixture through 
a sieve over the tops of the pineapple slices. Serve very 
cold. 
Peaches in Bloom 

Cover 4 good sized perfect peaches with boiling water, 
let stand a moment, drain and remove the skins, which will 
now easily slip off. Carefully cut in half, remove the 
stones, and fill the cavity so made, with chopped almonds. 
Pin the halves together with tooth picks. Sift ^ c pow- 
dered sugar, cream well with 3 T butter, then add 3 T cream 
a few drops at a time. Add enough pink vegetable color 
paste to give a delicate color to the frosting. Roll the 
stuffed peaches in this frosting, then in grated cocoanut. 
Chill and serve in a nest of whipped cream. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 2 h before dinner time prepare the lamb for roast- 
ing and place in the oven. ^ h before serving time wash 
and pare 8 potatoes and start to cooking. Then wash the 
spinach, and after thoroughly rinsing it, put on to cook. 
Now make the pineapple salad, put on salad plates, and 
set in a cold place until ready to serve. Whip the cream 
for the dessert, and arrange the peaches in the cream on 
dessert plates. By this time the spinach is cooked and may 
be drained and prepared for the table. Then drain and 
mash the potatoes, reserving i c for future use, remove the 
roast from the oven to a hot platter, and serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday Lesson 244 

ICED MUSKMELON 

POTATO BUFF WHOLE WHEAT BISCUIT 

COFFEE 



398 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Iced Muskmelon 

Wash at night or when received and place in refrigerator 
over night, cut in two and remove seeds just before serving. 
Potato Buff 

Beat I egg until light, add to i c mashed potato and mix 
well. Add I c milk, ^ t salt, turn into a baking dish, and 
bake until set, and a delicate brown on top. 
Whole Wheat Biscuit 

Sift together i>^ c whole wheat flour, i^ t baking pow- 
der, 3^ t salt, and 2 t sugar. Add enough milk, about 34 c, 
to make the dough stiff enough to handle. Turn out into 
a floured board, pat out to a sheet about ^ inch thick, cut 
into biscuits and place in a buttered pan. Let stand 5 m 
before baking, then bake in a moderate oven until browned 
on top, about 25 m. 
Preparing the Meal 

About y2 h before breakfast make the whole wheat bis- 
cuit, and after standing 5 m set in the oven to bake. Now 
prepare the potato buff and place in the oven. Make the 
coffee. While the breakfast is cooking prepare the melons 
and place on the table, also cut the butter and set with 
the cream on the table. Turn the fire very low under the 
coffee, and serve the melons while the breakfast is finishing 
cooking, then serve the potato buff, biscuits and coffee. 

Immediately after breakfast make the lemon gems for 
lunch. If time enough they may be made before breakfast 
and baked while eating. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Tuesday Lesson 245 

CREOLE LAMB 
BOILED RICE BREAD AND BUTTER 

LEMON GEMS LEMONADE 

Creole Lamb 

Melt 2 T butter, add 2 T chopped green peppers, i T 
chopped onion, and cook 5 m. Add 2 T flour, and when 
well blended, add ^ c brown stock or water, 5^ c tomato 
pulp and juice, i t lemon juice, 3^ t salt, and 3^ t horse- 
radish. Boil 2 or 3 m, stirring constantly, then add i c 



AUGUST MENUS 399 

cold cooked lamb, cut into cubes. Heat thoroughly and 
serve with boiled rice. 
Lemon Gems 

Melt 3^ c butter, add i c sugar and mix well, then add 
2 well beaten egg yolks and beat all together. Add the 
juice and grated rind of i lemon, also 2 T water. Mix 
and sift 2 i-6 c flour, add i^ t baking-powder, and add to 
the cake mixture. Lastly fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 
2 eggs, turn into gem pans, and bake about 20 m in a 
moderate oven. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 15 m before lunch time make the sauce for the 
Creole Lamb and while cooking cut i c cold cooked lamb 
into small cubes. Reheat in a double boiler the rice left 
from Monday's lunch. Add the meat to the sauce, and 
while heating make the lemonade, adding ice to it at once 
Cut the bread and butter, place some lemon gems made in 
the morning, on a plate and serve the lunch. 

Immediately after lunch make and freeze the ice cream, 
for dinner, then pack until ready to serve. 

DINNER 

Tuesday Lesson 246 

STUFFED CORNED BEEF 

NEW POTATOES IN CREAM HOT SLAW 

LIMA BEANS 

VANILLA ICE CREAM WITH HOT SAUCE 

Stuffed Corned Beef 

Make several deep cuts in a 3 or 4 pound piece of well 
corned beef, and fill each with dressing of bread crumbs 
moistened with water and seasoned with pepper and onion, 
p. 46. Tie up tightly in a cloth, saturate with vinegar, then 
boil about 3 h. 
New Potatoes in Cream 

Scrape the required number of small potatoes, cook in 
salted water till tender, drain and cover with thin white 
sauce — I T flour, 2 T butter, i c milk as on p. 347. 

Note — New potatoes may be cooked with the skins on, 
then peeled. This is easier than scraping. 



400 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Hot Slaw 

Remove the outer leaves from a small head of cabbage, 
cut in quarters, then with a sharp knife cut very fine, or if 
available, a slaw cutter may be used. Beat the yolks of 
2 eggs, left from Monday Luncheon, add ^ c water, % c 
vinegar, i T butter, and 3/2 t salt. Heat over hot water 
until thickened, add the chopped cabbage, and when hot, 
serve. 

Lima Beans 

Wash and boil in salted water 30 m or more, drain and 
season with butter, salt and pepper, p. 332. Cook enough 
so that i>^ c may be left for future use. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Make a custard of 2 c milk, i T flour, i c sugar, >^ t 
salt and i egg and when cool add i pt. thin cream or rich 
milk and 2 T vanilla and freeze — p. 309. 

Hot Caramel Sauce 

Melt I c sugar in a frying pan until it has become a 
light brown syrup. This must be constantly stirred to keep 
from burning. Add i c boiling water, taking care that it 
does not boil over when added to the hot sugar. When the 
sugar is all dissolved add a roux made by creaming well 
together i T butter and i T flour. Boil 3 or 4 m, then serve 
over well frozen ice cream. (This may be used cold.) 

Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before dinner time prepare the corned beef 
and put on to cook. About 45 m before serving, wash 
scrape and cook the potatoes, then put the lima beans on 
to cook. Cut the cabbage, and then make the sauce for 
the slaw, setting aside when thickened until ready to use. 
Make the hot sauce for the ice cream, and then the cream 
sauce for the potatoes. Now reheat the cabbage in the 
sauce, drain the beans, and add the seasonings, also drain 
the potatoes and add to the cream sauce. Cut the bread 
and butter and place on the table, then serve the dinner. 

While preparing the dinner cook the Cream of Wheat 
for breakfast in a double boiler. It is best when cooked 
several hours. Pour into moulds and set away in a cold 
place. 



AUGUST MENUS 401 

BREAKFAST 
Wednesday Lesson 247 

MOULDED CREAM OF WHEAT 

WITH 

FRESH GOOSEBERRY CRUSH 

EGGS ENGLISH FASHION SOUTHERN SPOON BREAD 

COFFEE 

Fresh Gooseberry Crush 

Wash and pick over i pt. fresh ripe gooseberries, add 

1 c sugar, and crush with a potato masher. Serve over 
the moulded Cream of Wheat. 

Eggs English Fashion _ 

Select 4 small firm tomatoes, wash well and cut a slice 
from the stem end of each. Scoop out the seeds and soft 
pulp and reserve for the sauce, sprinkle the inside of the 
tomatoes with salt, invert for 5 m. Cover the bottom of 
each tomato with ^ T finely chopped parsley, then break 
a raw egg into each, season with salt and pepper, and place 
^ T butter on top of each. Arrange the tomatoes in a 
buttered pan and bake in a hot oven until the eggs are set. 
Serve with Tomato Sauce, — i c strained tomato, 2 T flour, 

2 T butter, 3^ t salt ; p. 125. In this case use the pulp of the 
tomatoes. 

Southern Spoon Bread 

Break an egg into i c sour milk or buttermilk. Mix and 
sift into the milk, y^ c white cornmeal, % t salt, and }i t 
soda, then beat thoroughly. Heat a pottery baking dish, 
holding at least a pint, until it is very hot, then pour the 
batter into it and set at once in a very hot oven. In 15 m 
this should have risen and become a golden brown in color. 
Serve at once with a spoon. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make the Southern Spoon Bread the first thing in the 
morning, about 20 m before the breakfast is to be served. 
As soon as it is in the oven prepare the eggs — English 
fashion, and while they are cooking make the tomato sauce. 
Make the coffee, then prepare the gooseberries for the 
cereal. Serve the cereal, then the rest of the breakfast. 

Immediately after breakfast make the cocoanut cake and 
fruit custard for dinner. 



402 LESSONS IN COOKING 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Wednesday Lesson 248 

SURPRISE ROLL 

BREAD AND BUTTER LEMON GEMS 

ICED TEA 

Surprise Roll 

Mince finely enough corned beef to fill i c ; also chop an 
equal amount of cold cooked potato, i slice onion, and 34 c 
sweet green pepper. Mix well together, add >4 t salt, dash 
cayenne, and i t chopped parsley. Press i^^ c cooked lima 
beans through a colander to remove the skins. Add i well 
beaten egg, and season with ^ t salt, and a dash of cayenne. 
Form the first mixture into a roll and cover the entire 
surface with the bean pulp. Lift carefully into a baking 
dish, brush the outside with melted butter, and bake until 
thoroughly heated. Serve with i c Medium White Sauce 
to which has been added if desired, i T minced green 
pepper, and ^4 t onion juice. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 3^ h before lunch time prepare the surprise roll 
and place in the oven. Make the iced tea, place some lemon 
gems on a plate, and set on the table, cut the bread and 
butter, and by this time the roll will be done and the lunch 
can be served. 

Immediately after lunch scald and peel tomatoes and set 
in a cold place until needed. 

DINNER 
Wednesday Lesson 249 

FLANK CHOPS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 

NEW POTATOES BOILED WITH JACKETS ON 

STEAMED CORN ON COB 

SLICED TOMATOES 

COCOANUT CAKE FRUIT CUSTARD 

Flank Chops 

aRoII a flank steak according to directions given on page 
46, insert wooden or metal skewers throughout the roll i 
inch apart, then cut between the skewers into chops, thus 
cutting across the grain, and broil until brown and tender. 
Season and serve with mushroom sauce. Either canned 



AUGUST MENUS 403 

mushrooms heated in medium white sauce, as per page 339, 
or wild mushrooms sauted in butter may be used. 
Steamed Corn on the Cob 

Remove the husks and all the silk from 12 medium sized 
ears of corn. Put into a steamer over hot water and steam 
about 15 m or until the corn is tender. Serve at once. Re- 
serve 6 ears of corn for Friday luncheon. 
Cocoanut Cake 

Cream >2 c butter, add i^ c sugar and mix well to- 
gether. Mix and sift 2^ c flour, 3 t baking powder, ^ t 
salt, and add, alternately with i c milk to the sugar mixture, 
add I t vanilla; mix and beat well, then fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of 4 eggs. Bake in layers. 
Cocoanut Frosting 

Add I c grated cocoanut to plain boiled frosting, p. 38. 
Fruit Custard 

Soak y2 package granulated gelatine in i c milk for i h. 
Heat 3 c milk to the boiling point and add the gelatine. 
Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with 6 t sugar and % t salt, and 
add slowly to the hot milk, stirring all the time. Cook 
until the mixture thickens slightly, then add i c fresh apri- 
cots, peeled and sliced, and a grating of nutmeg. Pour 
into wet moulds and serve very cold with cream. Other 
fresh fruits may be used. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 30 m before dinner time wash and scrub the po- 
tatoes and put on to cook. Then husk the corn and place in 
a steamer over the potatoes. Prepare the flank chops and 
pan broil, lowering the flame after browning both sides. 
Make the mushroom sauce and while that is cooking slice 
the tomatoes peeled and cooled previously. Unmould the 
custard, made in the morning, cut the cake, and set both in 
a cool place until ready to serve. Cut the bread and butter 
and set on the table, then serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday Lesson 250 

FORCE — CREAM AND SUGAR 

HOT FRANKFURTS HOT BISCUITS 

COFFEE 



404 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

See p. 24 — 2c flour, 4 t baking powder, ^ t salt, i T 
TDUtter, I T lard, ^ c milk or water — or Sour Cream Bis- 
cuits, p. 78. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 20 m before breakfast time, make the biscuits and 
place in a hot oven. Crisp the Force in the oven before 
serving. Cover the frankfurts with boiling water and heat 
thoroughly. Make the cofifee. Cut the butter and place 
with the cream on the table. Serve the cereal, then the 
frankfurts, biscuits and cofifee. 

After breakfast make the cottage cheese and cook the 
eggs for luncheon. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Thursday Lesson 251 

EGG SANDWICHES COTTAGE CHEESE 

CAKE ICED TEA 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop fine the whites of 4 hard-cooked eggs; press the 
yolks through a sieve and add to the whites. Moisten to 
the desired consistency with salad dressing and spread be- 
tween thin slices of bread. Cut into any shape desired. 
Cottage Cheese 

Heat thick sour milk slowly over hot water until curds 
separate, strain through a fine sieve or cloth, drain for sev- 
eral hours and season, p. 53. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 10 m before lunch prepare the egg sandwiches, 
the eggs having been cooked in the morning. Serve the 
cottage cheese, also made in the morning, on lettuce leaves ; 
cut some cake, chop some ice for the tea and serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Thursday Lesson 252 

BEEF PUDDING 

WITH 

TOMATO AND SPAGHETTI 

POTATOES ON THE HALF SHELL 

CUCUMBER SALAD PEACH SHORTCAKE 



AUGUST MENUS 405 

Beef Pudding 

Put sufficient cold cooked beef through the meat grinder 
to make 2 c. In this case use the corned beef left, also the 
meat left from the flank chops. Break up enough spa- 
ghetti to make 2-3 c, and boil 20 m. Peel 2 good-sized 
tomatoes and cut them into small bits. Put a layer of 
spaghetti in the bottom of a buttered baking dish, over 
this a layer of chopped meat, then a layer of tomatoes. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and dots of butter. Proceed in 
this way until the ingredients are used, having tomatoes 
for the top layer. Cover with buttered crumbs and bak§ 
20 m in a hot oven. 
Potatoes on the Half Shell 

See directions for Stuffed Potatoes on p. 28. 
Cucumber Salad 

Cut 2 cucumbers into thin slices or cubes, cover with 
boiling water for an instant, then drain and let stand in 
salted ice water for an hour. When ready to serve, drain, 
cover with salad dressing and serve on lettuce leaf. 
Peach Shortcake 

2 c flour, 4 t baking powder, i^ t salt, 2 T shortening, 
^ c water or milk; roll into two sheets ^ in. thick, spread 
with melted butter and bake with buttered sides together, p. 
47, or make individual shortcakes. 
Preparing the Meal 

About I h before dinner pare the cucumbers, cut into 
cubes and stand in salted ice water. Wash and scrub 4 
good-sized potatoes and place in oven to bake, then break 
up sufficient spaghetti to fill 2-3 c, and while cooking put 
the cold cooked beef through the grinder, and then peel 
and cut up the tomatoes. Now finish the preparation of 
the beef pudding and place in the oven. Make the short- 
cake and bake, then prepare the peaches for it. Finish 
the cucumber salad, serve on salad plates on a lettuce leaf, 
and set in a cool place until needed. By this time the po- 
tatoes will be done and they may be mashed and put back 
in the shells, and browned. Remove the shortcake from 
the oven, finish its preparation and let stand until needed. 
Cut the bread and butter and place on the table. Serve 
th^ dinner. The shortcake should be served with cream. 



406 LESSONS IN COOKING 

A good way is to put a spoonful of ice cream or whipped 
cream on top of each serving. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday * Lesson 253 

BLACKBERRIES 

FRENCH OMELET WITH CURLED BACON 

TOAST COFFEE 

French Omelet 

Beat 4 eggs slightly, add ^ c milk, water, stock or fruit 
juice, Yz t salt, ^ t pepper; turn into a hot frying pan, 
which must be clean and smooth and well greased with i T 
of butter. Heat slowly and shake gently. Lift cooked 
portions with a fork or palette knife, and when all is firm, 
fold and serve. 
Curled Bacon 

Cook thin slices of bacon slowly in a frying pan. When 
golden brown, curl by twisting each piece with 2 forks. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 20 m before breakfast put the bacon in a cold pan 
and cook over a lozv fire ; then prepare and cook the omelet. 
Make the toast and coffee, then look over the berries and 
serve the fruit. Then the omelet and bacon, toast and cofifee. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Friday Lesson 254 

CORN CUSTARD GRAHAM DROP CAKES 

COOKIES ORANGEADE 

Corn Custard 

Cut corn from young ears to make I c. Beat 4 eggs 
slightly, add 5^ t salt, dash of pepper, a few drops onion 
juice and i/i c milk. Then add the corn and mix well. 
Pour into buttered moulds, and bake set in a pan of water. 
When firm, turn from the moulds and serve. 

Note: In this case use the corn left from Wednesday 
evening dinner. 
Graham Drop Cakes 

Sift together i>4 c graham meal, ^ t soda, ^ t salt, 34 
c brown sugar. Mix into a stiff batter with about a cup of 
sour milk. Drop from the spoon on a buttered pan or gem 
pans and bake in a hot oven 15 m. 



AUGUST MENUS 407 

Orangeade 

To the juice of 3 oranges add the juice of i lemon, y^ c 
sugar, yl t salt and 5 c water. Chill and serve. If possi- 
ble, sweeten with syrup instead of sugar. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 40 m before lunch make the corn custard and place 
in the oven. Increase the heat of the oven, then make and 
bake the graham drop cakes. Make the orangeade and set on 
ice to chill, place some cookies or cakes on the table, cut the 
butter and place on the table, and serve the lunch. 

Immediately after lunch make and freeze the cantaloupe 
sherbet for dinner, and pack until needed. 

DINNER 
Friday Lesson 255 

FRIED FISH — LEMON SAUCE 

MASHED POTATOES SUMMER SQUASH 

APRICOT AND RED PLUM SALAD 

CANTALOUPE SHERBET 

Fried Fish 

Clean thoroughly and wash the fish, dip in egg and 
crumbs and fry in deep hot fat until tender. 

Lemon Sauce 

Cream ys c butter, then add slowly 2 T lemon juice. 
Serve with the fish. 
Summer Squash 

Dice I medium sized onion finely, and cook slowly until 
slightly browned in i T butter. Pare and cut into small 
dice a summer squash, add to the onion, sprinkle with i t 
salt and yl t pepper, cover and cook slowly until the squash 
is tender, 20-30 m. 
Apricot and Red Plum Salad 

Scald, drain and peel 6 firm ripe apricots and the same 
number of red plums. Cut into dice, toss together, using 
2 silver forks, cover with lemon cream sauce, p. 99, chill 
and serve. 
Cantaloupe Sherbet 

Clean and remove the pulp from 2 good spicy melons, or 
enough to make i pt. pulp. ]\Iash, add a syrup made by 
boiling I c sugar and I c water together for a moment, 



408 LESSONS IN COOKING 

add a dash of salt and set away to cool. If desired, tint a 
very faint pink. Put into a freezer and, when partly frozen, 
carefully open and add the white of one egg beaten stiff 
with 2 T powdered sugar. Close freezer and freeze until 
solid. Pack and set in a cold place to ripen. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 40 m before dinner time wash, pare and put on to 
cook 4 medium sized potatoes. Then prepare the squash 
and start to cooking. Make the salad and set in a cold 
place until ready to serve, then prepare the fish, having the 
fat for frying heating while doing so. Put the fish in a 
frying basket and lower into the hot fat, then make the 
lemon sauce for it. Drain and mash the potatoes, cut the 
bread and butter and place on the table, then serve the 
dinner. 

Have the dishes in which to serve the sherbet cooling in 
the ice box while the dinner is being served. 

BREAKFAST 
Saturday Lesson 256 

FRESH PLUMS 

FISH WITH BROWNED SAUCE TOAST 

COFFEE 

Fresh Plums 

Wash well fresh red plums, allowing 3 or 4 to each per- 
son, and set on the table. 
Fish with Brown Sauce 

Make 2 c medium brown sauce, add i c flaked fish, left 
from the preceding evening, heat thoroughly and serve on 
toast. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 15 m before breakfast time make the brown sauce 
for the fish, and while cooking make the coffee and toast. 
Flake the fish and add to the sauce. Now wash the plums 
and place on the table with the cream and butter. Serve 
the fruit, then the fish, toast and coffee. 

SATURDAY BAKING 
Rolls 

2 T sugar, % t salt, }^ c scalded milk, y^ yeast cake dis- 
solved in 2 T lukewarm water, ^ c flour ; cover, let rise ajjd 



AUGUST MENUS 409 

add 2 T melted butter, i well beaten egg, grated rind of i 
lemon, and flour to knead. See p. 290. 
Imperial Cake 

Cream i c butter, add i c sugar and mix well. Then add 
the well beaten yolks of 5 eggs, grated rind of 3^ lemon 
and 2 t lemon juice, i c raisins, seeded, cut in small pieces 
and dredged in flour, 5^ c walnut meats broken into small 
pieces, and 2 c flour mixed and sifted with % t soda. Beat 
all vigorously for 5 m, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of 5 eggs, turn into a deep buttered pan and bake i^ h in 
a slow oven. 
Fresh Apple Sauce 

Pare, quarter and core about 6 apples; add 3^ c water 
and cook quickly till tender. Add a few grains of salt and 
sugar to taste — about 3^ c — and heat until the sugar is dis- 
solved. Nutmeg may be grated over if desired. 

Method of Work 

The first thing in the morning set the sponge for the rolls, 
put in a warm place, cover and let rise. By the time break- 
fast is over, the sponge will be light enough to work down 
with the flour and rest of the ingredients; knead and set 
away to rise a second time. Now make the cake and while 
that is baking make the apple sauce for lunch. By this 
time the rolls can be kneaded down again, shaped and 
placed in the pans for a last rising. By the time the cake 
is done the rolls will be ready for the oven. Bake about 
30 m. 

LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 
Saturday Lesson 257 

SQUASH SOUFFLE FRESH ROLLS 

APPLE SAUCE 
ICED COFFEE 

Squash Souffle 

Mix I c cold mashed squash, left from the preceding 
evening, with the yolks of 2 eggs, i c milk, J^ t salt and i 
T melted butter. Cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites, 
pour into a buttered baking dish, set in a pan of hot water, 
and bake until firm, about 30 m. 



410 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Iced Coffee 

Add cream and sugar to taste to cold coffee, chill and 
serve. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 35 m before lunch time prepare and bake the squash 
souffle. Prepare and chill the coffee, cut the butter and 
place with the fresh apple sauce on the table. Also put 
some of the rolls, made in the morning, on the table. When 
the souffle is done serve the lunch. 

DINNER 
Saturday Lesson 258 

ROUND STEAK A LA QUIN 

W^ITH 

TOMATO SAUCE 

POTATOES — BUTTER SAUCE GREEN ONIONS 

PEACH COBBLER 

Round Steak a la Quin 

Cover a slice of round steak, cut about 13^4 inches thick, 
vv^ith flour, and, using the edge of a plate or meat pounder, 
pound as much as possible into the meat. Melt 2 T butter 
in a baking pan and when hot brown the meat quickly on 
both sides, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover with 
I c water. Cover closely and bake in a slow oven for sev- 
eral hours or until the meat is tender throughout. This is 
an excellent recipe for use in the fireless cooker. Serve 
with Tomato Sauce, p. 125, or alone with the gravy. 
Potatoes w^ith Butter Sauce 

Pour 14 c melted butter, to which has been added i T 
chopped parsley, over plain boiled potatoes, and serve. 
Green Onions 

Wash carefully a bunch of fresh green onions, cut off 
the long tops and serve. 
Peach Cobbler 

Mix and sift i>4 c flour and ij^ t baking powder. With 
the tips of the fingers work into the flour i T butter, and 
when well mixed add 1/2 c milk. Peel and slice 4 peaches, 
and mix with ^ c sugar and 2 T melted butter. In the 
bottom of a baking dish invert a cup, around this arrange 
the peaches, and over all place the dough patted out to about 
^ inch in thickness. Bake in a moderate oven until the 



AUGUST MENUS 411 

crust is brown and the peaches are tender. This will re- 
quire about 40 m. The cup keeps the dough from lying on 
the fruit and becoming soaked with juice. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 3 h before dinner prepare the steak and place in 
the oven. About 45 m before serving time make the peach 
cobbler and place in the oven, then wash and pare the po- 
tatoes and start to cooking. Wash and trim the onions and 
set in a cool place until needed. Make the Tomato Sauce 
if desired, then cut the bread and butter and place on the 
table. Drain the potatoes, pour the melted butter over them, 
remove the meat from the oven and serve the dinner. 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday Lesson 259 

SLICED PEACHES AND CREAM 

EGG AND CHEESE CREAM ON TOAST 

COFFEE 

Egg and Cheese Cream 

Melt 2 T butter, add 4 T grated cheese and 2 t minced 
parsley. When the cheese is melted add 4 eggs well beaten, 
>4 t salt, }i t paprika, dash of nutmeg and >^ t mustard. 
Stir constantly over a slow fire until of a creamy consist- 
ency, then serve on toast. 
Preparing the Meal 

Make the toast and start the coffee, then slice the peaches, 
sweeten and place on the table. Make the egg and cheese 
cream, and when it is creamy, remove from the fire but 
keep in a warm place until ready for it. Serve the fruit, 
then the egg and cheese cream, toast and coffee. It is nice 
to make this cream in a chafing dish at the table. 

Immediately after breakfast make the iced fruit soup for 
dinner, also make and freeze the ice cream and pack. Pre- 
pare the tomatoes and cucumber and set in a cold place until 
ready to serve. 

DINNER 
Sunday Lesson 260 

ICED FRUIT SOUP 

CROWN ROAST OF LAMB 

CREL\MED POTATOES PEAS 

SLICED TOMATOES AND CUCUMBERS ON LETTUCE 

PEACH ICE CREAM CAKE 



412 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Iced Fruit Soup 

To I c each red plums, peaches and raspberries, add i qt. 
water. The stones should have been removed from both 
the plums and peaches. Boil until the fruit is tender, then 
mash in the water and strain. Mix i T cornstarch with 2 T 
cold water and add to the fruit liquid. Add the juice of 3^ 
lemon, ^ t salt and i c sugar. Boil a few minutes, then 
cool. Serve ice cold. More or less sugar may be added 
as desired. 
Crown Roast of Lamb 

Select parts from 2 loins containing ribs, scrape the flesh 
from the bone between the ribs, as far down as the lean 
meat, and trim off the backbone. Keeping the ribs on the 
outside, shape each piece in a semi-circle and sew together 
to form a crown. Trim the ends of the bones evenly and 
do not leave them too long. Cover the end of each with a 
small cube of salt fat pork or wrap each rib with bacon to 
prevent the bone from burning. Roast 1^4 h or until tender 
throughout. Remove the cubes of fat before serving. The 
center of the crown may be filled with the peas. 
Peas 

Shell I qt. or 3 pints of peas and cook in a small amount 
of water till tender, see p. 293, adding salt the last 15 m. 
Sliced Tomatoes and Cucumbers 

Peel and chill 2 good sized tomatoes. Pare thickly 2 
cucumbers, slice very thin and let stand for an hour or more 
in salted ice water. When ready to serve arrange alternate 
slices of tomatoes and cucumber on a lettuce leaf, cover 
with salad dressing and serve. 
Peach Ice Cream 

See p. 350, directions for Strawberry Ice Cream. In this 
case use i>2 pts. crushed peaches and i>^ c sugar. Then 
proceed as directed. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 2 h before dinner time prepare the crown of lamb 
and place in the oven. At this time prepare the peas for 
cooking. 40 m before serving time put the peas on to cook, 
and wash and pare the potatoes and put on to cook. Nov/ 
slice the tomatoes and cucumbers which have been prepared 
earlier in the morning, arrange on salad plates on lettuce 



AUGUST MENUS 413 

leaves, and set in a cool place until needed. Now make the 
white sauce for the potatoes, then drain the potatoes and 
add to the sauce. Drain the peas and season, cut the bread 
and butter and place on the table. Remove the roast from 
the oven, take the salt pork off the ribs, put a paper frill 
on each rib, fill the center of the roast with the peas and 
garnish with parsley. Serve the iced fruit soup, then the 
rest of the dinner. Have the serving dishes for the ice 
cream in the refrigerator until ready to use. When ready 
to serve the cream cut the cake and serve with it. 

Immediately after dinner make the potato and pea salad 
for supper. A salad put together while the ingredients are 
warm always has a better flavor than when they are cold. 
Also make the fruit punch for supper and let stand in a 
cold place until needed. 

SUPPER 
Sunday Lesson 261 

COLD SLICED LAMB 

POTATO AND PEA SALAD ROLLS 

CAKE FRUIT PUNCH 

Potato and Pea Salad 

To I c potato cubes add an equal amount of cooked peas, 
^ c chopped cucumber and ^ onion chopped fine. Sprin- 
kle with Yz t salt and 34 t paprika. Cover with salad dress- 
ing and serve on a lettuce leaf. In this case the creamed 
potatoes left from dinner may be used, and consequently 
less salad dressing will be needed. 
Fruit Punch 

Make a syrup by boiling together for 5 m J^ c sugar and 
y^ c water. To this add i c cold tea, 3^ c strawberry syrup, 
juice of I lemon, juice of i orange, ^ c grated pineapple, 
and let stand for at least 30 m. Strain, add a lo-cent bottle 
red Maraschino cherries, i pt. Apollinaris, and about i pt. 
ice water. Serve very cold. Preserved cherries or other fruit 
may be used instead of the Maraschino cherries. 
Preparing the Meal 

About 10 m before supper time slice the cold meat and 
arrange on a platter garnished with parsley or lettuce. Serve 
the salad made after dinner, cut the butter and put on the 
table with the rolls, also cut the cake and serve the supper. 
The fruit punch should be served with shaved ice in it. 



414 LESSONS IN COOKING 

FORMAL DINNER 



Lesson 262 



FISH CANAPES 

ICED BOUILLON OR HOT BOUILLON — EGG BALLS 

PULLED BREAD 

SALTED NUTS OLIVES 

FILLET OF BEEF — HORSERADISH SAUCE 

FRANCONIA POTATOES CORN SOUFFLE 

CURRANT ICE 

TOMATO CUP SALAD SALTED TRIANGLES 

FROZEN PUDDING 

BON BONS MACAROONS 

CAFE NOIR CHEESE WAFERS 

Invitations 

For a formal dinner the invitations should always be writ- 
ten rather than verbal and should be sent out two weeks in 
advance. The reply should be sent the day following the 
receipt of the invitation. 

The hour at which a formal dinner should be served de- 
pends greatly upon local custom. From 7 to 8 is the usual 
hour, although in some places it may be set as late as 8:30 
and even 9. 

Seating of Guests 

If the company is not large the gentlemen are informed 
by the hostess as to which ladies they are to escort to the 
table, but when there are a large number present a tray 
holding small addressed envelopes is passed to the gentle- 
men as they enter the drawing room. Each selects the 
envelope bearing his name and finds on the enclosed card 
the name of the lady he is to escort to the table. The side 
of the table on which they are to find places is indicated by 
the letter R or L in one corner of the envelope. At each 
cover is a plain card on which is distinctly written the name 
of the guest who is to occupy the seat. The host, with the 
most distinguished lady present, or the one in whose honor 
the dinner is given, and who sits at his right, leads the way 
to the dining room. The hostess, with the gentleman who 
is to sit at her right, is the last to leave the drawing room. 



AUGUST MENUS 415 

The host sits at the farthest side of the table, thus enabling 
the hostess to find her place without passing those who have 
preceded her. At the close of the dinner all rise, the hostess 
making the 'first move. The ladies pass to the reception 
room, where they are served with coffee, while it is served 
in the dining room or library to the gentlemen who have 
remained behind to smoke. After dinner the guests of 
honor should be the first to leave. 

The Table 

The table on which a formal dinner is to be served should 
be covered first with a silence cloth, then with a heavy 
damask tablecloth. A bare table should never be used on 
such an occasion. A low centerpiece of flowers is the most 
suitable decoration. If candles are used there should be 
enough to furnish sufficient light without the aid of gas or 
electricity. 

Laying the Table 

Allow 2 to 2^^ ft. between each "cover" or place. 

Set service plate in center, i in. from edge of table. 

At right of plate from the inside out, lay knife with cut- 
ting edge toward plate, soup spoon and small fish fork for 
canapes. 

At left of plate, from the inside out, lay the ice-cream 
fork, the salad fork and the meat fork ; then the napkin, with 
outside corner toward the plate. 

Keep all on a line i inch from edge of table. 

Set glass at end of knife. If bread and butter are to be 
served, set bread and butter plate at the end of the fork 
with butter spreader laid across it. Butter plates may be 
used instead of bread and butter plates. 

Place salt and pepper shakers between each two guests. 

The olives may be put on the table, or left on the side 
table and passed. 

The coffee spoons should be put on the table at each place 
when the coffee is served. 

On the side table should be arranged all the spoons, forks 
and extra dishes to be used in serving, a tray with a doily 
on it, the dishes of nuts, olives, bonbons, etc., a dish of 
cracked ice and a carafe of cold water. A napkin or towel 
for emergency, and finger bowls containing water. ' A thin 



416 LESSONS IN COOKING 

slice of lemon, a rose geranium leaf or flower leaf, each 
set on a plate with a doily. 

Sherbet cups and dessert plates for serving the ice and 
frozen pudding should be set in the refrigerator. 

The dishes for the hot food put where they will keep 
warm. 

The fish canapes should be on the table and the glasses 
filled and everything in readiness when the waitress steps 
to the door where the guests are and says, "Dinner is 
served." 

Serving 

If there are two maids to serve the dinner, one serves 
first the lady on the right of the host, the other the gentle- 
man on the right of the hostess, and so on in order until 
all have been served. In serving the next course the lady 
and gentleman on the left of the host and hostess respec- 
tively, are served first, and thus in regular order throughout 
the dinner. If there is but one maid she begins first at the 
right, then the left of the host, then the right and then 
the left of the hostess. In this way, each time either the 
host or hostess is the last to be served. 

Custom, however, is changing and of late many prefer 
that the host and hostess be the first served. In this way 
they wait the longest before the food served is eaten. Also 
when some unusual dish is oflfered, they set the example 
both as to its disposition and to the manner of eating. 

Fish Canapes 

Rub I c cold cooked fish from which all skin and bones 
have been removed, to a paste, add ^4 c creamed butter, i T 
Worcestershire Sauce, and a few grains cayenne. Spread 
on circular pieces of toasted bread and press in the center 
of each an olive from which the stone has been removed 
and the cavity filled with the fish mixture. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. Garnish with the whites of 4 hard cooked eggs 
chopped fine, and the yolks pressed through a sieve. 

Bouillon 

Cut 2 pounds of meat and bones into small pieces. Re- 
serve ys of the meat and place the rest in soup kettle, cover 
with 2 qts. cold water and let stand i h. Saute the reserved 



AUGUST MENUS 417 

portion of the meat in i T drippings or butter, with 2 T 
chopped onion; when it is a dark rich brown add it to the 
soup in the kettle, rinsing carefully all the "good" from 
the skillet. Bring slowly to the boiling point and simmer 
for 6 h. Then add 2 t mixed herbs, 4 cloves, 4 allspice 
berries, 2 t salt, 4 peppercorns, 2 T each, potatoes, toma- 
toes, corn, cabbage, turnip, carrot, onion, etc. The vege- 
tables should all have been cubed and soaked in cold 
water. Cook i h longer and strain, and cool. The fat 
rises to the top of the stock and forms a seal. When 
ready to use remove by simply taking off the top layer of fat 
when the stock is cold, then dip a napkin in hot water, wipe 
off the top of the stock and around the bowl, thus removing 
every particle of fat. Note. — The layer of fat forming a 
seal keeps the stock from spoiling. Do not let the seal be 
broken if you wish to keep the stock any length of time. 
If it is broken heat the stock and let it form again. 

To clear the stock, after removing all the fat add the 
slightly beaten white and the finely broken shell of i egg 
to each quart of stock, while cold, beating it through the 
liquid. Set the stock on the stove, stir constantly until it 
reaches the boiling point, then simmer 20 m. Remove the 
scum and strain the stock through a cloth. Season before 
cleaning if it is necessary to add more than was put in at 
first. 
Egg Balls 

Rub the yolks of 4 hard cooked eggs to a paste, add a 
dash of salt, speck of pepper, 6 drops Worcestershire 
sauce, and i t melted butter, M:.isten with the beaten yolk 
of I egg, and shape into small balls. Roll in flour and saute 
in butter. Serve in the bouillon. 
Pulled Bread 

Pare the crust from a loaf of French bread. With two 
forks divide the loaf into halves, then quarters, and eighths. 
Break into 3 in. lengths, and brown slowly in the oven. 
Fillet of Beef 

The tenderloin of the beef which lies under the loin and 
rump is called fillet of beef. Wipe, remove the sinewy 
covering on one side, and the superfluous fat on the other. 
Lard the upper surface with salt pork, dredge with flour 
and bake 3^ h. Baste frequently with fat from salt pork 



418 LESSONS IN COOKING 

or from the stock kettle; the latter is used on account of 
the flavor of vegetables, or the fillet may be laid on a bed 
of vegetables. When half done season with salt and pepper. 
Serve with Horseradish Sauce. 
Horseradish Sauce 

Mix well together 4 T grated horseradish, 4 T fine bread 
crumbs, i t powdered sugar, 2 T vinegar, 3^ t prepared 
mustard, ^ t salt, }i t paprika, and heat in a double boiler. 
When hot add ^ c cream, or i c Medium White Sauce, 
reheat, and serve. 
Franconia Potatoes 

Pare and quarter medium sized potatoes, parboil for 5 m, 
drain, place in the roasting pan and baste with the meat. 
Corn Souffle 

See page 27, using 13^2 c fresh grated corn instead of 
canned. 
Currant Ice 

Make a syrup of 4 c water and 2 c sugar, add i c raisins, 
boil 10 m, strain, cool and add 2 c currant juice and ^ c 
orange juice and freeze. 
Tomato Cup Salad 

Select medium sized firm tomatoes, wash well, and cut a 
slice from the stem end of each. Scoop out the seeds and 
soft pulp, saving it for future use, sprinkle the inside of 
the tomatoes with salt, and invert for several minutes. Cut 
equal portions of cucumber and radish into ^ in. cubes, 
add the most solid portions of the tomato pulp, mix with 
salad dressing, and refill the tomato cups. Set in a cold 
place until ready to serve. 
Salted Triangles 

Beat I egg slightly, add 5/2 t salt, then enough flour to 
make a very stiff dough. Knead until elastic, then roll into a 
very thin sheet and dry. Cut in triangles about 2^ inches 
on the sides and fry in deep hot fat to a delicate brown. 
Dust with salt and serve with salad. The dough can be 
made and roUed out a day or so before using if convenient. 
Frozen Pudding 

Soak I T granulated gelatine in 2 T cold water. Scald 
I pt. milk. Beat 2 eggs lightly, add i c sugar, }i t salt, and 



AUGUST MENUS 419 

add the hot milk slowly, stirring all the time. Return to the 
double boiler, and cook until the mixture coats the spoon. 
Add the soaked gelatine. Remove from the fire and add 
34 pound figs, chopped fine, and i qt. thin cream ; cool and 
add 2 T vanilla, ^ c orange juice, ^ pound English wal- 
nuts chopped fine. Freeze. 

Cafe Noir 

For cafe noir or after dinner cofifee use twice as much 
coffee as required for breakfast cofiiee or ^ c of ground 
coffee to I c water. Otherwise follow directions given on 
page II. 

After dinner coffee is served with or without sugar, as 
desired, but not with cream. It has a decidedly stimulating 
effect on the digestive organs and for that reason its use 
after a heavy dinner is advantageous. 

Preparing the Dinner 

The bouillon should be prepared the preceding day and 
set aside to cool. 

In the morning remove the fat and clear the bouillon, 
chill if desired cold. Then make the salted triangles, and 
cook the fish if necessary, make the paste for the canapes, 
and set aside until needed. Prepare the tomatoes and rad- 
ishes and set away to chill. Also pare and cut the cucum- 
bers and stand in salted ice water. Make the custard for 
the frozen pudding and set away to cool. Cook the eggs 
for the egg balls. 

After lunch freeze the Frozen Pudding, pack, and set 
away to ripen. Make the currant ice and freeze. Arrange 
the salted nuts, olives, bon bons, macaroons, and wafers on 
dishes for serving, and set away until needed; prepare the 
egg balls for sauteing ; cut the bread for the canapes and 
prepare the Pulled Bread. Lay the table and have 
dishes ready for use. About i^^ h before dinner, wash, 
pare and parboil the potatoes. Make the corn souffle and 
place in the oven. Now prepare the fillet of beef and put 
in the oven, arranging the potatoes in the pan with it. 
Toast the pulled bread, and the bread for the canapes. 
Saute the egg balls, and if the bouillon is to be served hot, 
reheat. Make the horseradish sauce. Place nuts and olives 
on table and pour the water. The cafe noir should be made 



420 LESSONS IN COOKING 

after the dinner has been served, as otherwise it would 
have to stand too long. 

Serve the fish canapes, then the bouillon with the egg 
balls and the Pulled Bread. The beef should be placed on 
a platter and garnished with parsley, and served with the 
potatoes, soufifle, and ice. The salad and salted triangles 
are next served, followed by the frozen pudding, bon bons, 
and macaroons. The cafe noir, wafers and cheese are 
served last. 

Bread and butter is not usually served with a formal 
dinner but may be if so desired, 



AUGUST MENUS 



421 



AUGUST MENUS — COST AND FOOD VALUE — 
FOUR PERSONS 

FOOD UNITS 



Supplies — 

4 lbs. Flour 

J lb. Cornmeal 

h lb. Graham Flour 

I lb. Rice 

I lb. Spaghetti 

3 lbs. Bread 

i lb. Crackers 

5 pkg. Maple Flake 

i pkg. Cream of Wheat. . 

i pkg. Force 

6 J lbs. Sugar 

3 lbs. Leg of Lamb 

4 lbs. Corned Beef 

Ih lbs. Flank Chops 

i lb. Frankfurts 

1 lb. Bacon 

2 lbs. Halibut 

11 lbs. Round Steak 

4 lbs. Roast Lamb 

4 doz. Eggs at 20c 

4 qts. Milk 

4 pts. Cream 

3 lbs. Butter 

i lb. Cheese 

1 cake Cream Cheese.... 

i lb. Nuts 

1 pk. Potatoes 

1 basket Tomatoes 

1 small Cabbage 

1 qt. Lima Beans 

12 ears Corn 

1 head Lettuce 

4 Cucumbers 

1 bunch Green Onions. . . 

1 qt. Peas 

1 Squash 

1 small can Mushrooms., 
i box Gelatine 

2 qts. Spinach 

h lb. Raisins 

i pk. Apples 

1| doz. Apricot.^ 

1 basket Peaches 

i basket Red Plums 

1 Pineapple 

i pt. Raspberries 

1 box Blackberries 

1 pt. Gooseberries 

4 Muskmelons 

I doz. Oranges 

i doz. Lemons 

J lb. Cocoanut 

i lb. Coffee 

■fe lb. Tea 



Cost 
? .14 
.01 
.023 
.04 
.02 
.15 
.08 
.025 
.02 
.025 
.39 
.60 
.60 
.24 
.10 
.06 
.30 
.27 
.80 
.80 
.32 
.80 
.96 
.05 
.10 
.20 
.30 
.30 
.03 
.15 
.12 
.10 
.20 
.05 
.10 
.15 
.10 
.05 
.10 
.075 
.10 
.22 
.20 
.15 
.15 
.05 
.10 
.08 
..30 
.18 
.15 
.08 
.22 
.04 



Total 

6,560 

435 

832 

816 

400 

3,615 

400 

730 

354 

730 

12,090 

3,984 

4,440 

907 

800 

800 

940 

1,665 

5,312 

3,808 

2,600 

3,640 

10,815 

514 

514 

1,488 

2,247 

400 

145 

800 

800 

50 

150 

100 

1,000 

448 

50 

100 

300 

600 

440 

400 

464 

232 

200 

200 

400 

200 

720 

510 

219 

800 



Peoteins 

787 

39 

125 

72 

60 

468 

36 

80 

53 

80 



1,792 

2,398 

381 

152 

48 

374 

900 

2,389 

1,220 

496 

182 

54 

129 

129 

160 

247 

50 

29 

168 

104 

13 

27 

13 

230 

32 



15 
19 
45 
18 
13 
32 
32 
16 
8 
16 
36 
10 
42 
30 
21 
32 



FATS 

196 
48 
41 



219 
80 

7 
18 

7 

'2,192 

2,042 

526 

648 

752 

566 

765 

2,923 

2,588 

1,352 

3,130 

10,761 

375 

375 

1,328 

22 

64 

12 

32 

80 

7 

15 

5 

270 

32 

4 

198 

198 

54 

31 



10 

5 

12 



64 



18 

30 

616 



Starch 

& SUGAU 

5,577 
345 
666 
736 
332 

2,928 
284 
643 
283 
643 
12,090 



752 
328 



10 
10 



1,978 
276 
104 
600 
616 
30 
108 
82 
500 
384 
31 
57 
57 
528 
396 
368 
422 
211 
180 
184 
300 
190 
678 
462 
168 
152 



$10.92 81,164 13,912 32,536 34,716 
Food Units pee Day — 11,595. Food Units pee Day per Person — 2,898. 
Cost of Food per Day — $1.56. Cost pee Day pee Peeson — $0.39. 
Or the Total Food Value 17% Is Peotbin, 40% Fat, and 42% Cabbo- 
hydratb or starch and sugar. 



422 LESSONS IN COOKING 

SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING THE COST OF 
THE AUGUST MENUS 

Substitute oleomargarine or crisco for butter in cook- 
ing. Use top of milk in place of cream for cereal and coffee 
In cooking with milk reduce by adding half water, or by 
using skimmed milk at 5c a quart, as suggested before. 

In L. 239 omit the orange omelet. Use Hamburg Roast 
in place of Leg of Lamb in L. 241, also omit the pineapple 
and cheese salad and use plain sliced peaches instead of 
Peaches in Bloom. In L. 242 omit the iced melons. In 
L. 244 make the ice cream with a custard foundation, thus 
using I pt. instead of i qt. of cream. Also omit the hot 
sauce for the cream. Omit the gooseberry crush in L. 245, 
also the cocoanut cake in L. 247. In L. 251 omit the black- 
berries and in L. 253 use banana instead of apricot and plum 
salad ; here also serve lemon ice instead of cantaloupe sher- 
bet. Omit the plums in L. 254. In L. 256 rice the potatoes 
instead of serving them with butter sauce. Use breaded 
veal cutlets instead of crown roast of lamb in L. 258, and 
also omit the fruit soup. As suggested above, use the cus- 
tard foundation for the peach ice cream also. 

ESTIMATED EEDUCTIONS. 

1% lbs. Butter at 48e, less Blackberries 10 

1% lbs. Oleo at 30c $ .18 Apricot and Plum Salad at 

1 qt. Cream 40 20c, less Banana Salad at 

2 qts. Milk 16 5c 15 

Orange Omelet 08 Cantaloupe Sherbet at 20c, 

Eoast Lamb at 60c, less less Lemon Ice at 10c 10 

Hamburg Eoast at 30e... .30 Eed Plums 08 

Pineapples and Cheese Salad .27 Butter Sauce 04 

Peaches in Bloom at 18c, Fruit Soup 24 

less Sliced Peaches at 6c. .12 Crown Eoast of Lamb at 

2 Melons 15 80c, less Veal Cutlets at 

Hot Sauce for Ice Cream. . .03 45c 35 

Gooseberry Crush 10 

Cocoanut Cake 20 $3.05 

Original Total Cost $10.92 

Eeduction 3.05 



New Total Cost per Week $ 7.87 

New Cost per Day 1.12 

New Cost per Day per Person 28 



AUGUST MENUS 423 

QUICK MEALS FOR HOT WEATHER 

Lessons in Cooking was planned as a graded course, sim- 
ple meals being given first. As they gradually increase in 
difficulty, the meals for June, July and August are somewhat 
complicated. While they may easily be served during the 
month, they are not ideal for extremely hot weather. At 
such times the cooking should be planned so that the use of 
the stove is necessary only during a short period of the day, 
preferably in the morning. To do this requires planning, 
but the thought necessary will be repaid. 

"Stock adjuncts," as they may be called, made at a con- 
venient time and kept on hand, with the help of the Emer- 
gency Supplies referred to on page 287, will admit of the 
planning of many attractive meals requiring very little time. 

STOCK ADJUNCTS 
Salad Dressing 

Make without milk as suggested on page 62, from the 
recipe given on page 29. It will keep indefinitely. 
Soft Custard 

Page 139. Make up a quart or two of this and keep on the 
ice for sauce or for making quick desserts. 
Fruit Syrups 

When preserving fruit make a larger quantity of syrup 
than necessary and put it into pint jars for desserts and 
cold drinks. 
Thin Sugar Syrup 

For use in making lemonade, orangeade, etc. 
Cold Tea 

Make a strong infusion and keep in glass or porcelain. 
Cold CofTee 

Make strong and keep in glass or porcelain for iced coffee 
and flavoring. 
Cold Chocolate 

This will keep sweet longer if made without milk, accord- 
ing to recipe on page 37, but it will be well to add enough 
water so that it will be sufficiently thin to blend with milk 
when cold. 
Cheese 

, Grate dried pieces of cheese and keep in a closed fruit jar 
in a cool place. Use for salads, sandwiches, etc. 



424 LESSONS IN COOKING 

PREPARED FOODS 

Hard Cooked Eggs 

Cook a dozen or more at a time and use for creamed eggs, 
egg salad, deviled eggs, garnishing, salads, meats, etc. 

Cold Boiled Potatoes 

Cook double or treble the quantity and keep for potato 
salad, sauted potatoes, quick scalloped potatoes, creamed 
potatoes, or potato soup. 
Cold Cooked Vegetables 

Cook more than necessary of all kinds of vegetables and 
keep ready for salads. 
Cold Meats and Fish 

Have them ready for slicing, creaming, salads, etc., or 
make into jehied or pressed dishes. Cold ham, tongue and 
corn beef are particularly acceptable in hot v^eather. 
Cake 

Make plain loaf or sponge cake, doubling, the recipe, and 
when the first freshness has gone, use with fruits, soft cus- 
tards and cream for simple, quick desserts. 

Cookies 

That will keep well should be made when convenient in 
considerable quantities. 

Bread 

When baking bread make up pans of crusty rolls, cinna- 
mon rolls and coffee cakes. 

Pastry 

Make and bake pastry shells — pie and tart size. These 
will remain fresh for two or three days if kept in a cool, dry 
place. Uncooked pastry may be kept for a long, time in the 
refrigerator. 

All these foods may be made in the morning, while get- 
ting breakfast or immediately afterwards. When the oven 
is heated for one purpose, see that other things which may 
be used a day or two later are baked. 

There is seldom need of using a coal range during the hot 
weather ; even if gas is not available, the blue flame kerosene 
stoves are not expensive and give excellent results. 



AUGUST MENUS 425 

SUGGESTIVE MENUS 

The breakfasts given in the lessons are nearly all suf- 
ficiently simple for even the hottest weather. The follow- 
ing suggestive menus may illustrate what has been said. 

LUNCHEON 

CREAMED EGGS BREAD 

FRESH FRUITS COOKIES 

ICE TEA WITH FRESH MINT 

The eggs should be cooked at breakfast time and the tea 
made. Then lo m before luncheon make the cream sauce 
and heat the eggs in it. While it is cooking, ice the tea, 
prepare the fresh sprigs of mint by putting one in each 
glass, put the fruit, bread and cookies on the table and serve 
the eggs. 

LUNCHEON 2 

LETTUCE AND CHEESE SALAD BREAD AND BUTTER 

SPONGE CAKE ICED CHOCOLATE 

After breakfast make the chocolate and wash the head 
lettuce, folding it in a cloth and place in the refrigerator. 
About 10 m before luncheon set the table and put on the 
bread and butter and cake, ice the chocolate and put the 
lettuce on the salad plates, sprinkle with the grated cheese 
and serve with salad dressing. 

DINNER— (Fireless Cooker) 

POT ROAST WITH POTATOES AND VEGETABLES 

LETTUCE SALAD BREAD 

FRESH PEACH COBBLER 

This is a fireless cooker dinner, and can be served from 
3 to 6 hours after it is put into the cooker, according to the 
heat used. With the radiators, less time should be allowed 
and less water put on the meat. The pot roast should be 
seared and browned nicely on all sides, put into the cooking 
vessel, surrounded by potatoes and vegetables — carrots, 
onions, parsnips, turnips, etc. — cut into inch cubes, seasoned 
well with salt, pepper, a bit of bay leaf and a few cloves, 
and water added. If the radiators are used a cup or pint 
of water is sufficient — if not, the meat should be nearly cov- 
ered with water, brought to the boil and transferred after 
20 m boiling to the cooker. 



426 LESSONS IN COOKING 

Fresh Peach Cobbler 

Fill a pastry shell with fresh peaches (or other fruit) that 
have been sliced and sweetened, and spread whipped cream 
or meringue on the top. 

Preparing the Meal 

Make the pastry shell for the cobbler in the morning or 
when the oven is in use. Then pare and slice the peaches 
and cover with sugar. Put the meat and vegetables into the 
cooker in the morning, or the necessary length of time before 
required and wash the lettuce. About lo m before time to 
serve the dinner, set the table, putting on the bread, butter, 
water, lettuce, etc. Whip the cream or make the meringue, 
then put the cobbler together. Open the cooker, put the 
meat on platter, then drain the vegetables, reserving the 
liquor for soup or gravy for the next day, and put them 
around the meat on the platter and serve. Iced coffee may 
be served with the dessert. 

QUICK DINNER— (Cold) 

JELLIED VEAL POTATO SALAD 

GARNISHED WITH HARD COOKED EGGS 

BEET PICKLES 

CREAM OF FRUIT AND CAKE 

ICE COFFEE 

Jellied Veal 

See page 205. 
Potato Salad 

See page 364. 
Cream of Fruit and Cake 

Fold into i pt. of soft custard — see page 139 — }i c cake 
crumbs (cracker or bread crumbs may be used) and i c 
mashed and sweetened fresh or preserved fruit. Serve in 
sherbet glasses with or without whipped cream, ice cold. 
Preparing the Meal 

The veal should be prepared in the morning, the potatoes 
and eggs cooked and the soft custard made. About 15 m 
before serving, set the table, turn out the veal, finish the 
salad and make the cream of fruit and cake and put into 
glasses. Serve the dinner. 



AUGUST MENUS 427 

QUICK DINNER— (Hot) 

BROILED MEAT OR FISH CREAMED POTATOES 

SLICED TOMATOES 

FRUIT SALAD CAKE 

About 20 m before dinner time, pare and cut into i inch 
cubes, 6 medium sized potatoes and put on to cook in boil- 
ing salted water; they will cook in about 15 m. When heat- 
ing the water for the potatoes, put in a little more than neces- 
sary. When it reaches the boil use enough to scald the toma- 
toes — then put in the potatoes. When the tomatoes are 
peeled and sliced, set in a cool place. Make the fruit salad, 
using, bananas and berries with a little grated cocoanut and 
sprinkle with sugar and orange or any fruit juice on hand. 
Broil the meat, set the table, cutting the cake, etc., and make 
the white sauce (p. 38) for the potatoes. Drain the pota- 
toes, add the sauce. Put meat onto the hot platter, season 
well and serve the dinner. 

If there is no cake on hand, one of the many varieties of 
prepared wafers may be used or tea cakes may be made, 
using the recipe for "Lightning" cake, p. 374, and baked 
after the dinner is started. 



428 LESSONS IN COOKING 

SUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES 

Rye Bread 

Scald I c milk, add i c boiling water, i T lard, i T butter, 
ys c brown sugar, and 1^2 t salt. Dissolve % yeast cake in 
}i c lukewarm water, and when the milk mixture is luke- 
warm add the yeast and 3 c flour. Beat thoroughly, cover, 
set in a warm place and let rise until light. Add rye meal 
until the dough is stiff enough to knead. Knead thoroughly, 
let rise, knead, shape into loaves, let rise again, and bake. 
See page 211 on Bread Making. 

Sugar Cookies 

Cream 3^ c butter and i c sugar thoroughly, add i egg and 
beat all well. Add alternately ^ c milk or water, and 2 c 
flour with which 2 t baking powder have been sifted. Mix 
all well, then add enough more flour to roll, from i to 2 c 
according to the kind of flour used. Roll out the dough 
to about ^ inch in thickness, sprinkle with granulated sugar, 
cut with a cooky cutter, and bake in a hot oven. 

Mince Meat 

2 lbs. chopped meat 2 T salt 

I lb. suet 3 T cinnamon 

3 lbs. raisins 2 t mace 

3 lbs. currants 2 t powdered cloves 

2^2 lbs. brown sugar 4 lemons (grated rind and 

lys cups molasses juice) 

3 qts. chopped apples I piece (a quarter) of citron, 

I qt. meat liquor shredded fine 

Cook about 2^/2 lbs. of the round, flank or shoulder of 
beef m lyi qts. water till tender, saving the liquor. Chop 
or grind the meat fine, being careful to remove all gristle. 
If the meat is very fat use less suet. 

Mix ingredients in the order given and cook slowly until 
the fruit is tender. When done add i qt. sweet cider. Store 
in stone jars in a cool place. Add more cider when using 
if it is not sufficiently moist. 

Half glasses of jelly, syrup from pickled peaches, bits of 
preserves, etc., may be added to the mince meat. 



SUPPLEMENTABT RECIPES 429 

Mince Pie 

Fill a shallow plate lined with plain paste with mince 
meat, cover with an upper crust made either of plain or 
puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Apple Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with plain paste (see page 130). 
Pare, core and cut 4 or 5 sour apples into eighths, and 
spread on the plate until filled. Mix ^ c sugar, ^ t nut- 
^^Sf yk t salt, I t lemon juice, and a few gratings of lemon 
rind together and sprinkle over the apples. Dot with i t 
butter. Wet the edges of the lower crust, put on the upper 
crust, and press the edges well together. Cut a few slashes 
in the upper crust to allow steam to escape and bake 40 to 
45 m in a moderate oven. 

If desired the butter, lemon juice and rind may be omitted 
and cinnamon substituted for the nutmeg. Also dried apples 
which have been soaked for 12 h or more may be used in 
place of the fresh fruit. 

Pumpkin Pie 

Pare and cut into small pieces sufficient pumpkin, and 
steam until tender, or about i h. For each pie put enough 
pumpkin through a colander to make i^ c pulp. To this 
add y^ c brown sugar, i t cinnamon, ^ t ginger, 3^ t salt, 
2 beaten eggs, 13^ c milk and 3^ c cream. Mix well to- 
gether, and pour into a pie plate lined with plain paste. 
Do not use an upper crust. Bake in a moderate oven until 
the custard is set and the crust browned. Care must be 
taken that the oven is not too hot, as the custard is then 
apt to curdle. 

Squash Pie may be made with this recipe. 

Puff Paste 

Wash I pound of butter, patting all the water out of it. 
Into 4 c sifted pastry flour work 2 T butter, then add 
enough ice water to make a paste. Toss onto a floured 
board and roll out to 34 "ich in thickness, keeping the paste 
oblong in shape. Spread generously with y^ of the remain- 
ing butter. Fold, bringing the upper half over to the center, 
then the lowei half up to the center, then the right side, 
then the left, each brought to the center ; then double. Place 



430 LESSONS IN COOKING 

in a cold place for 5 m or longer, then roll out, spread with 
another third of the butter and proceed as before. Chill, 
roll out again and spread with the last third of butter. Thor- 
oughly chill before baking. Bake in a very hot oven, having 
the heat from the bottom more intense than from the top. 

Patty Shells 

Roll puff paste % inch thick, cut with a round patty cut- 
ter, or doughnut cutter dipped in flour. Chill until the 
paste is stiff, then place on iron or tin sheet covered with 
brown paper, and bake 25 m in a hot oven. The shell 
should have risen to its full height in 12 to 15 m, and have 
become somewhat brown. The pieces cut from the cen- 
ters should be baked and used for patty covers. 
Fish Chowder 

Skin and bone a 3 lb. fish and cut into inch cubes. Cover 
bones and trimmings with cold water and simmer for I/2 h. 

Cut a 2 inch cube of salt pork into small pieces, try out, 
add I medium sized onion cut fine and fry for 5 m, then 
strain the fat into a stew pan. 

Parboil i qt. of sliced potatoes for 5 m, then drain and 
add layers of fish and potatoes to the fat. Season each 
layer with salt and pepper. 

Strain the liquor in which the fish bones have been cook- 
ing over all and cook about 20 m until fish and potatoes are 
tender. Then add i^ pts. scalded milk and 4 or 5 hard tack 
splits (water crackers). If desired thicker, sprinkle a 
little flour between each layer. 

Clam Chowder is made in the same way. 

Quick Frosting 

To 3 T fruit juice or cream add confectioner's sugar until 
it is the right consistency to spread and beat well. A speck 
of salt brings out the flavor. Hot water may be used and 
flavored with extracts — vanilla, almond, lemon, etc. 
Chocolate Fudge Frosting 

Mix together 1% c sugar, 3^ c powdered cocoa, or i 
square grated chocolate, and % t salt. Add ^ c milk and 
boil without stirring to the soft ball stage (see page 117). 
Add iy2 T butter, remove from the fire and beat until thick 
enough to spread. Add i^ t vanilla and put on the cake. 



SUPPLEMENTAEY BECIPES 431 

Caramel Frosting 

Boil together to the soft ball stage, i^ c brown sugar, 
% c milk and I/2 T butter. Remove from the fire and beat 
until of the consistency to spread on the cake. 
Maple Frosting 

Break 3^ lb. soft maple sugar into pieces and heat in a 
sauce pan with i^ c cream, stirring occasionally until the 
sugar is dissolved. Boil without stirring to the soft ball 
stage. Beat until of right consistency to spread. 
Marshmallow Frosting 

In a saucepan heat slowly to the boiling point without stir- 
ring % c sugar and ^ c milk, then boil 6 m. Break ^ lb. 
marshmallow into pieces, melt in a double boiler, add 2 T 
hot water and cook until the mixture is smooth. Then add 
the hot syrup gradually, stirring constantly. Add 14 t 
vanilla^ then beat until thick enough to spread. 
Pistachio Frosting 

Make the same as Marshmallow Frosting, adding at the 
last a few drops almond extract and ^ c pistachio nuts, 
blanched and chopped. 
Catsup 

Scald half a bushel of ripe tomatoes and remove the skins. 
Add ^ c salt, i pound sugar, i T cayenne pepper, 3 T each 
ground mace and celery seed, 2 T ground cinnamon, and 2 
qts. vinegar. Boil slowly until reduced one-half, then pass 
through a sieve, reheat and put into sterilized jars, seal. 
Green Tomato Pickles 

Remove a thin slice from the blossom ends and the hard 
portion around the stems of i peck of green tomatoes. Slice, 
sprinkle with i c salt and set aside over night. In the morn- 
ing, drain, then boil 15 m in 2 qts. water and i qt. vinegar. 
Drain again. Cook together 10 m i gal. cider vinegar, 2 
pounds sugar, three red pepper pods cut into strips, i T 
white mustard seed, whole, and i c cinnamon bark, ginger 
root, mace, and whole cloves mixed in the proportions 
desired. The spices, with the exception of the red pepper 
pods, should be tied in a muslin bag. Add the tomato and 
simmer gently about i h, remove the spices, and put the 
pickles into sterilized glass jars. Let the syrup completely 
cover the slices of tomato. 



432 LESSONS IN COOKING 



8UPPLEMENTABT EECIPE8 433 



434 LESSONS IN COOKINQ 



SUPPLEMENTARY BECIPES 435 



436 LESSONS IN COOKING 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Note. The following books may be borrowed by members of the 
School, one at a time, by sending postage with request. They will be 
sent to anyone postpaid, on receipt of the price. 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book. Fannie M. Fanner. $2.00, post- 
age 16c. 

Boston Cook Book. Mrs. Mary Lincoln. $2.00, postage 16c. 

Home Science Cook Book. Barrows and Lincoln. $1.00, postage 10c. 

Practical Cooking and Serving. Janet M. Hill. $2.00, postage 18c. 

Cooking for Two. Janet M. Hill. $1.50, postage 14c. 

Catering for Two. Alice J. James. $1.25, postage 12c. 

Century Cook Book. Mary Roland. $2.00, postage 16c. 

Eorer's New Cook Book. Mrs. Eoror. $2.00, postage 18c. 

Luncheons. Mary Eoland. $1.40, postage 12c. 

Kitchen Companion. Maria Parloa. $2.50, postage 20c. 

Easiest Way in Housekeeping. Helen Campbell. $1.00, postage, 10c. 

Principles of Cookery. Anna Barrows. $1.50, postage 12c. 

Food and Dietetics. Alice Peloubet Norton. $1.50, postage 12c. 

The Up-to-Date Waitress. Janet M. Hill. $1.50, postage 14c. 

Hostess of To-day. Linda Hull Lamed. $1.50, postage 14c. 

The Book of Entrees. Janet M. Hill. $1.50, postage 14c. 

Practical Sanitary and Economic Cooking. Mary Hinman Able. (Not 
for sale), postage 6c. 

Individual Recipes. Helen M. Spring. $0.25, postage 4c. 

Vegetarian Cooking and Meat Substitutes. Mrs. Eorer. $1.50, post- 
age 14c. 

Arts of Home Candy Making. $2.00, postage 14c. 

The Fireless Cook Book. Margaret J. Mitchell. $1.25, postage 12c. 

Paper Bag Cooking. Soyer. $0.60, postage 8c. 

Standard Paper Bag Cooking. Emma Paddock Telford. $0.50, post- 
age 6c. 

Chemistry of the Household. Margaret E. Dodd. $1.50, postage 12c. 

Food Materials and Their Adulterations. Ellen H. Richards. $1.00, 
postage 10c. 

Household Chemistry. J. Maud Blanchard. $1.00, postage, 10c. 

The Healthful Farmhouse. Helen Dodd. $0.60, postage 4e. 

Free Hand Cooking on Scientific Principles. Bulletin of A. S. H. E. 
Price, 10c. 

Food Values. Practical Dietetics. Bulletin of A. S. H. E. Price, 
10c. 

The Up-to-Date Home — Money and Labor Saving Appliances. Bul- 
letin of A. S. H. E. Price, 15c. 

437 



438 LESSONS IN COOKING 

GOVERNMENT BULLETINS 

Free in the United States, 5 cents each outside; send to the 
Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

34. Meats: Composition and Cooking — Charles D. Woods. 

85. Fish as Food— C. F. Langworthy, Ph. D, 

93. Sugar as Food — Mary Hinman Abel. 

121. Beans, Peas and Other Legumes as Food — M. H. Abel. 

128. Eggs and their Uses as Foods — C. F. Langworthy, Ph. D, 

142. Principles of Nutrition and the Nutritive Value of Food. 

182. Poultry as Food— Helen W. Atwater. 

183. Meat on the Farm — Andrew Boss. 

203. Canned Fruits, Preserves and Jellies — Parloa. 

249. Cereal Breakfast Foods — Woods and Snyder. 

256. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table — Parloa. 

263. Use of Milk as Food— R. S. Milner. 

293. Use of Fruits as Food— C. P. Langworthy. 

295. Potato and Other Root Crops as Food — Langworthy. 

298. Food Value of Corn and Corn Products. 

332. Nuts and their Use as Food— M. E. Jaffa. 

359. Canning Vegetables in the Home — J. F. Breazeale. 

375. Care of Food in the Home — ^Mary Hinman Abel. 

389. Bread and Bread Making — Helen W. Atwater. 

391. Economical Use of Meats in the Home — Hunt. 

FOR SALE BULLETINS 
Send coin to the Supt. of Documents, Washington, D. C. 

28. The Chemical Composition of American Food Materials, Price 
10c. 

100. Some Forms of Food Adulteration and Simple Methods for 
Their Detection, Price 10c. 



GLOSSARY 

A la Crime, F. (a-la-cram') With cream sauce or white sauce. 

Au Gratin, F. (6-gra'-tin) A scalloped dish in which cheese is used. 

Au Naturel, F. (o-nat-ur-el') According to nature. 

Blanc Mange, F. (bla-manze') White food. 

Blanquettes, F. (blan-kef) A white fricassee. 

Cafe Noir, F. (ca'-fe-nwar') Black coffee. 

Canape, F. (ca-na'-pa) A sandwich — small and highly flavored, used 

as an appetizer. 
Casserole, F. (cas'-role) Earthen baking dish. 
Croutons, F. (cr5o-tons') Crust. 
Espagnole, Sp. (es'-pa-gnul) A Spanish sauce. 
Farci, F. (far '-see) Stuffed. 

Fondue, F. (fon-doo') A dish made of cheese and eggs. 
FancTionetts, F. (Fan'-chon-ets'). Small pies with meringue. 
Fricassee, F. (fri-ka-see') Stewed and browned. 
Eollandaise, F. (Hol-an-daz'). Dutch-white sauce with egg yolks and 

lemon. 
Knofli, G. (nee'-flee) Tiny dumplings of flour. 
Krummel Torta, G. (krum'-mel-tor'-ta) Crumb tart. 
Lyonnaise, F. (le-on-naz') Sauted dish seasoned with onions and 

parsley. 
MaAtre d'Eotel, F. (me-tray-do-tel') Master of the hotel — by the 

head steward. 
Mayonnaise, F. (may'-on-naz') Sauce originated in the Province of 

Mayon. 
Meringue, F. (me-rang') A frosting of beaten whit© of egg and 

sugar. 
Mousse, F, (moose) Froth. 

Parfait, F. (par-fay') Perfect (a frozen whipped cream mixture). 
Pfefer Nuesse, G. (fef'-fer-ness) Pepper nuts. 
Puree, F. (pQ-ray') A soup thick with the mashed pulp of the 

article used. 
Eagout, F. (ra-goo') A highly seasoned meat stew. 
Eamilcins, F. (ram'-e-kins) Individual baking dishes. 
Salamagundi, P. (sal'-a-ma-gun'-di) A mixture of many kinds. 
Souffle, F. (s66-flay') Lightened with air. 
Tartar e, F. (tar tare') Sharp. 

Timbales, F. (tim' -balls) Cup shaped. 

a, as in labor ; a, as in fat ; a, as in arm ; e, as in eve ; e, as in 
end; e, as in eight; 6, as in old; u, as in use; ii, as in tub; 55, as 
in mo5n. F, French; G. German; Sp, Spanish. 

439 



WW 







" (^ H 



H OS a 

h S H 



O 

z 

a M 

iJ « ^ 
K O 
Eh 
Q <! 

OO 
S3 



H O '^ 



CU 



zhQ 

OH Z 
KH ■< 

u n » 



O H 
03 H 



MM 



Z g 

5 Q >J 
fS H "^ 



E-l 03 

•^ o ' 



MS 

O O H 

n ^ 



EH 

M?J ' 
ZO 



MR 



^ i 

o oQ 

Eh « W 

fc.«a 

o -< 
® W 



5 z 

>j ?) D Z 
3 Eh ^, <! 



03 
O 

!h ^ <" 

Sag 



II 



& Z "^ 



H a «j W 

ragSco 
« z 

-< « 



tH BS 
W H 
►J M 



>2 



a 



H EH 
Eh 03 

^ 2 

ti OS 
(0 6) 

6<a Q 
H z w 
S^d 

p. ^? 

tj" bijH 
M ,1) 

Ph 

•«) Z 
U » 






o« 



no3a 

o W 
«0 



o a 
Ci as 






01 



H 



tip 

aw 
BO 
>, ;SO 

(8 oy 



fin 



« P- o 
o r' o 



OB 



CD ft W 

^ o^S 

(B a 05 

■5 Sw 



M fa 

o o 
o y 



z „ D 

OJ -H w 
Ph W 93 






Sw 

OO 

oz 



c a 

03 fa 

•< 
es EH 



cva ■«] M rr 
Csl 6j O * 



440 



-I 

<! z 

^3 

a -<j 



PmS H 

< fa 

fa 

"^^5 03 

a) ^ S 
bo m 
d o 



za 
z?< 



wB 

^ K Eh 

? ^z 

EH^" 

^ a 
>> a a 
« HH 
•o go 

= |S 

(0 03 



fc 



es fa 
■"J fa 
O O 
DO 



aa 



a^a 
^ aaS 

«^ SVS 
a " 
0) o I _ 
M ooa 
cij zg 
fe 5a 

OH 
i, faf 
« . B 
5 M 



a 
a 






OS -J 



as 



B iJ 

D a 

OS 






o a 



cs 






M O 

Wr9 



W o 



o a 



fa J 

Q a 

Q oa 
a H « 

CL, < M 

■J o 
5^ 

^g 

a 



a 

o 
o D 
a^ 

MM 

< ^ 

93 
%-- 

a ch 

fe s 

fa o 

£ S 

( cc 

w 2 " 
Ho 



fa a 



Q 

a a 
u D 

<! «Q 
ffi *! <J 
•^ U H 



W CO a 

a 

H 

< 

a 



faSo 

a Q <^ 2, 

fa H§ 

Z 6, 



a OH 
to a ** ■* 

r 53 o 1^ 

o S « '? 
M ?1 



73 w 5 
Z Z 0, 
O O 

Ei^aoa 

D J a o 
?; a z z 

VO feO 



z3« 



og ag 

CO Q O " 
<JH U 

o td <i -^ 

H . EH>J 
•< Z O M 
g -«! fa 

oz 

HZ Q 

■^ -a 

faa 

03 



feg 



a 

O 03 § 

DOS 

qM 
a ■^ 
«n 



H p 

= S =« 
W fa H 

^ r f^ 

«] H ^ 

a ^ jjj 

fa cc n 
fa o u 
•? «S I 

Ng I 

I -si t*^ a 
M 01 2 (^ S 

ggoog 
§1 

O Q 

fa 

u 

z 



So 

•0 ^ 

PS H 

Z 

o 
» 



5° 



0) OJ 
bo M 
oi 



2^ 2 fa 



""id 

O M 
D 

05 Z 
O 

ss 

<iz 
aSI 

? L & 

JP "^ fa 
Oh a* 

-^ So 
_2 o M 



CS H 

0. S 



5 « o 

S -<H 
V ►J 



<j o 
a H 



Ph q 
^-- »: Z 

^ a o 

re <j 

■o J a 

<0 Ci, 03 

^ ZH 

3 S a 

f oa 

Hoy 



fa 

fa 

fa o 

DO 



03 

a 
o 

§W 

^ S 03 
"5 K H 
03 



bo 



«H 
Z^ 

o a 

PS OS 

05 a 



H 
03 
<1 

§g 

fa a 
^ a 

"^ H 

fc S a 

wga 

_ o fa 

Q a fa 

S BS o 
MO 

f z 

bo $ 03 

d Pa 

^^ J < 
- ^w 
re "w 

^ 01 

t- ^ 

3 fa 



a 

HO 

P H 

« O 

^ ^ I 



(0 



a ^ 
W o 
o 

■< a 
o a 
fa fa 

§ 



441 



WD 

W 11 j« 

o oa 

■ ^z 



ft « 



O 

!?; 
to -< 
ft w ^ ^ 

K Cj Q "^ 
M 03 



By 



2(13 



1^^ 



^n" 



CO H 






K ■< M 






M 

oa 
■«) o 

E-i BS Q 
p o <J 
ft W 



D 
Cii 



So 

o« 
n 



(0 
t3 
525 
H 

!^ 

H 

pq 

H 
> 
O 



xn m 



ft§ 

a o 

Q 02 ^ 

® S 

'§^ 

5 CO M 



o 

« 5h 
\ W22 
I ^5 

•- p w 

O ftp 

Z H O Z 

o ft 



H 



H 

o 

< a 

E-i PS 

£Ka 

Sh I 
I M i 
I Bg 

W •"* M 

o rfl Q 

2 »3 S 
OS 

EH 

O 

ft 



z z 

1-1 o 

Z J 2 o o 
Ooo t-iss 

■^ Z ft 1-" 

S» W 
^t% % 
WhS ^ 

o ^ p 

O KJ 

^ a 



Z BS 
r i-I 

»2i^z 

Eh « M 3 

"J 3 3 
Q '-' 

►J 22 J 
gggwS 

WBog 

L» O D " 

p ft s 



n 



<] CO 



W Z 

S »3 O <1 

«iJ z> 

EHP5g 

^aft 

, o 

HZ<! 

S X" « 

n ft B3 



ft a m 

i si 

P h2 9 
w o z a 

O EH <! p 
,< BJ(^ 
ClEH W 
HO B 
^ft - 



Q ^ 



^2 

jgga 

i &^a 
o o 
a o 

'z« 



^ o 



o 
e_ 

B 

s9e3 
S5o 
2 '^ 

5a 

PS <! 

w 
/-^ ^t-* ft 

00 "^ « 
-1 >H 

bo ^ Eh 
C3 g tc J 

Ph §Sh 

•w- Eh O 5) 



CO PS H 

oo ft a 

0) OJ S 

to PS o 

ca ago 

a 1-1 

>, "? 



(0 



Oy 



I » 



5^ 

SM a 
5 a 

(U Mid 



«; 



S S S a 



5 W 



442 



H 

H 
D 

m 
o 



o 



« 



^S 

<| m 

9 f^ 

Eh m 

g < 
i ^ 

^ 1^ 
°g 

O 

n 



&; 09 

MS 

Q H 
5M 



5 M<l 



M 1^ 


-aQ t< 


W^ 


t< 


"Q 


^r1 




03 OS 


g=^ 


11 


W2 



5 03 



as 
o 

Ejolg 

^ <] oi 

Q o 

I « 



«H 



Eh m 

"2 r-i S 

K to qO 
(C > M 

Bt 



a 

«; ? H 

Q 

J 03 O 



CQ 



S5 » 

O ■< 

§ Sm 

g Sh 

&2 & 
o^ 2 
cog g 

f^ ^ CO „ 

OS , K g 

w 'j o s 

►^ ?^ EH OS 

w g «^ 
0>EHB 

r ? H 

° D^ 

a H«i 

OS <1 

w a 



§ to 

M O EH 

a « S 

2 O 03 H 

J Q 
15 «) H 

M M <] 

S M 



fc t:' 



W 
O C5 

Saga 
w o "^ H 

"EHflS 

feEH^ a 

O o "^ „ « 

Z Z WH 
O Q « <! 03 

>-; H o o u 

W 6, O tH 
Z fe 05 
z O Q O 

O CO CM 05 



^2 
02 Z 



W Z 

oehSS 

H -fl Z ^ 
ZCMh5 



SQ Z'^ N 



*< *^ r/i H 
«3^gz 

S a oj M 
3 « p< 



H B O W 
5 «= 5 R 

<i 1^ <3 r* 

SCMCp 



o z o 

CO OZ 

^ ^<= 

Z Z PM 

O 03 

OfelitZ 
H o 



5 



-,3 W 

^ a23 



Z a: 

bn o tH 

C. z 

D 
>s O 



5^ 



o 



0< 

p 

a S 

is B 

o) ^ w 

bo Q a f* 

fin Q«g 

>» 03 

« W O 



o ® 



be oWS 



■'»?' 



03 

D C^ 

EC O 

» 

a w 

Z M 
H 

^ H 5 Ed 
Ph '^ ►:) 

::§§ 

£ 

443 



03 ^ 
H O 
EH O 



d5 



Oh I 



bs 
Oh. 

cs 

•D 



Q 

K- 03 

o: 03 
H Z 



K 

M -. 

cd ^ 
Ph 

^ Z 

>> w 

t- Eh 

3 EH 



63 -"l 

< O 
C5H 



V ^ 
i § 



5v Mo 
^ BS 1-) 

c y 1-1 



<0 



m 

m » 

o ■< 
R 8 

§ ? 

15 



^ 



C3 

n 
a 

P4 <] 

S *< 

fc K t< 

OO 

H 

S^ 

-0 ^ 

H? 
K^ 

Or, 



< i-i 

ft O 

dS 

^ S J 

J O h) 
M o Eh 

? w =* 

f^ S 05 

s-g 

y 



CO y 

O PS 

Eh <1 

- <! O 

CD 



CM ^ 
OO 



OOP 

to w g 

to Q 



»<:S 






S 01 «J 



o « 



«W 



5" 



a 

ei 

KLly 

QQoS 



iJ SI 

-< y 
to to Q 

r« O S M 

W <i CL< z 

° cu « 
-i< H ^ M 
►J ^"i 



O 



<1 M H 

<i -,<] 
y >H cu 

to OS 73 



CM Q« 

o w >^ 

OS S5?l, 

M o 

^ to 

o 

S K 

s »3 y 

<J a 3 



dQ 
a <j Q 



a cQ -«5j 

Z 03 >J 

OJ <) o 

oy o 

y o 

W 

Q CO y 

a a 



a <i 
b n 

gs 

CM Eh ei 
D aj 

tn I "o 
►J z o 

o a OS ph 

y 5 J 

Cm a Z Pj 
O Q <1 <! 

a W <! Ph 
OS to 
y to 
Ba 

CO o 

tj Eh 

O < 

OS t^ 



a « 

OEhI^^J 
W«lco« 

'^ a 

2 atJ 
S i-i o 

g a 

o 

Ah 






aj a Op5 
!» P EH 
•^ ^ o W 

«o-<j2 

b CM 3 
QC5 

aa 
W 



■«1 as 

OtH 

D CQ 



g a a 
oi al3^ 

? 15 

c3 -< M 

Eh (s^ 
>, O O 

re OD 



■<2 

e S 

to >^ 

D a 

<] J5 

Sea 

^ o a 

^ a a 

CO y O 0) 



>.!:§ 

re a y 
•a Ph 



OS 

a 

EH 

a 
a a 
Z&, 

DO 
a; ;< 

a a 
3 OS 

CM 
<! 



Ph Eh 



^ s 



3 aj a 
2 aa 

ay g 
y o 
►t a 



CO t- ~^ d 

-> ^cqg 

O) Eh g 02 

M <) D 

rt H 03 a 

^ Poa 

s. r.. :? !r" 



, Mg 



444 



D Eh U 










«)a 


t« <1 










c 


a 










so 


aa 




n 






to 


CO M a 

E3 « ^ 




D 


to 

-s 


H 




Ph ■< 


ORANG 

S CREA 

CREAM 
E SYEUP 



a) 


CO 

<! 

< 
P3 




a 
to 

M 


CO 


D a r/! 

a os2 
hu a 


EH ^ 


Oh 






n 1 a 


DDO 




u 


Ml 


:5 ti 


z a D 

aS-" 
CM a - 


a 





Ph 


^g 

CS 

■< a 


■a 


OJ 


H<1 


n 


an 



re o 3 
(0 a CO 






OjB 






.0< 



o 



K 



OS 

oca 



1-5 &< 



n c5 H 

§ Q »J 

Sh 

^S 
OH 

•0) <1 

H O 

B3 

« 



W 

tC M -^ 

-< w w 

b|HH 

D « Q 

O ai ^ 

w ■ 



■"J a H 



73 



- 03 a 2 

D a « 6, 

a^ « 

mh q 

fe M ^ 

O -< H 

H 5S a! 

E-i 
O 



H S5 
S W 

o% 

H 

Sh 

H as M 

M 
K Z -^ 
« S H 
O 5 
f-l 2 

< 5 

Eh CQ 

O 

h 



■"J O 



•^ OS 
M OS 

J E-I 05 

H ? M 

i^ § 

^ t4 

^5 



5^s 



w fi X 
^ H BiH 

-!) H H <1 
H K O O 

to do 

W ^ O ^ 

M fc pay 
•^ < S 

o: «3 5! 



a 

r W M „ 

E-I ,d H 

•< "^ fci 



'* 



O 

5 o f^ 
ki ^ S W 

O M 
PM M 



^ a -« 55 
a o a S 

WO I "^ 
O 3 M ^ 

go 22 

" O W 



a 



to o 



to 

H rj 
gS 

2 »; c5 

S HO 

s ■< o 

^ i^ 

S o a J 
^HaS 

„ ?! OS (1( 

z H a 3 
CO ^ 

Sa 



a 
•«i 

H 
to 

D 

z y a 
73 2 to 

W§=«a 

Son W <i 
g HH J 

^o r o 

HHjSO 
H ■< O 

ojfllaja 

H 

a 

o 

H 



iH 
OS 

I-] 
H 

: ii 

a 03 ^ S 

S y ii Q 

S t> 

O g 0* 
I c: H 

oaj 2 

to 9 
<<^ 

§Q 
a 

a 

CO 



oso 
<] tj 

O CO 



■=" hrt o 

2 gajw 

th Ha 

re b is 



'"' a H o 

5"o 

a 



<i a 
g 

(B I 

Ml i ' 

Oh " 

^ S75 

re 5: o 

tt) « 

4) 5 O 

= 2f^ 
■a a <J 



4> 



Ph 01 2 



■D 2 



^ H 

g "l z 

^ a» 

.'• "^ 

iL a 





as 




CO 




<iy 




a 




§2 


CO 


Zfa 





•< 




n; Q 




oa . 






be 


Pa 


P. 


> 

OS 



2^ 

H •< 






*^ ^ w Ir^ 



'fc !3 



Ph 5 






445 



s a 









^S^ 



n K 






09 



ta 

a 

o 

EH 

° S 



bqOh 
o ►J « 

H 
O « 

w u 

n >:) 



O o 






y Ph 









B 



EH 

ta a 

00 
M 



WW 









o K go 

D Eh M 

cQ oa ^ 

oj •<1 P< 



WS 



O H 

s9 



»4 

S5!a 

2h 

Woo 

I Q O 

. I »w 

3 CO ->! 



Eh M 5 



5 o 

«Ej 



O Eh :? 



H 






gz 

Ph ^ 

S« 



W K fci 
OH 

W^ Weh 

^ <! « 



g Woo 

H CO 00 < H 

>-' H <) S S 

« EH « I 

Eh <1 H A 

o a o 3 



B 



D J I K " 

O S 05 ^ 3 

W I-, sj fci 



iJ -4 

^ E4 01 M 

H fe H BS 

01 -Hj '^ 

O «5 M 
„gEHH 

R H H a 



M 
EH 

& 
5w 

O O 
02 O 

d" 

-a 

a H 

C? W fH ^ 

0) I H 

^ 25 

Q. Eh O 

^ ■** s 

« «2 

c o 
o t< 




Ml Og P5 
Ph 2"? 



09 



N -"I O 

P4 i 



9SS 






n 



n 



o 

< a 



Q W 



2;3 











S 








M 


■<< 




I'd 




0<! 


^g 






P5 Kl 


O 


05 


Z s 




<IEH 


u 


s ►^ 

b a 3 

ffl- 


2 


OS 

n 
5^ 






r Q "^ 


W^ 






»J<lM 


^ z s 




Q 

SI 




03 


O 03 


>j z 


«2 


n 


8^§ 


gft. 




>-) J 


sp4 


n 






J <! 


>jfo 






<1 « 


h a 


g 




O 


P4^ 


& 






EC 


g"^ 


o 








» 



I?; 

K H JO 05 
'^ OS R M 



H 






^5 « B 



KM 






,^ ^ it' 

O CM 






H K, ij CS 

o za 



n w "^^ <] 

►J o (^ o 

«) 03 



w.i 



w 









PM 
fa 

o 

2r« ' 
l> H j 
OO 
03 H 
W <1 



Z Q w 

Oi hJ 2 

ftn O § 

D M S 




M M O M 

ni n » ^ 

03 

>.« g 

2 O « 

3 H fa 

£ a 
I- ^ 



O fa 
D O 



^ w , _ 

CO K a: u 

CD o Z 

^ ^Z 

s> ® 

« EH 

'Z B 

u. a 



o a 

EH a 

fa 

ofa 

»3 <1 U 
Z^ 

fa - i^z^ 

ft to O £" 



H o 



Zfe 

9 D 



com 



a 

Q < 
Hi 03 

03 



O 

03 



M «00o 
C- tj; W y 



447 



H 



>< X fri 
6S J 

M O 

» 

D 



M 

H 

(» > 

>J « 
1-9 H 

n m 
si 

w 

H O 
H EH 

Sa 



K! E-l 
-4M 



H Q 

O O 



a S 



wM 






Q 

O . 

CO DS ^ 



aj C) 



OH 
OH 



OH 


















w W 



H w a 

J M Z 

SKO 



2^H 



» M 



« H H 

b <1 kj 

H CM 

Cq O ll( 

>B f< "1 

'-' 73 M 



b 5 aJ 
§hS 

Mr" 

^« g 
Q ^ 

O N W to 



« 3 

OS 



ft< a 



03 

o 

H 
< 

a 

o 

H 
Q 

, Q a 

H I ?^ 
w f^ 1-1 

Mo3g« 

<] H " u :rf = ^ 
ri S CQ -d < O ^l 



ft. ^ 



H 

oz 

CL CO 

CO o 5 

K H '^ 



Em 
S 
O 
m 

a 

a (4 

o ■«) 

aj " B o 

H O C3 S 
H £0 

O B «: 



Mcogges 

•^ 0-"! S ? 
iJ H B P Ph 

H W CO <! 
O MM 



PS Q pj 

O CO B OS 

BH H 

H O J M 



i^ 
^^^ 
^'"s 



55 



H H 

i4 <^ 
o CO Z « 
" a ■< « 
K5?o ■«) 
oSh a a 

a <^ 2 Q 
S H o a 
« o B .g 

M 

a ?j J 



00 



« a r 

a^" 



0) a P< 






a B 

g -^ a 

^ <! W &^ 

<M S o fel 

S «z =^ 
■^ o " w 

Ph b" 

•^ a<f 

^ H ►J 

« o-< 



ao 



Q a a 

u "^ <] 



a 

W 

^^ ■•d i_i s 
cS 1-1 

Pk g 



an 

►JDa 

p<M a 

a 

Q a 

C a o 

^ s 



LJ '-' TO 






2' H 



448 



W 

H 

a o 

o M "■' 

M a 
n 

l\ 

•a S 

= « 

3 Ed 

CO 



2; 
o 

a 

a 5 
^3 



I 9 

■^ W Q 

-< M ^ 
S O ^ 

« y «! 

H U 
M I 

t^ in 






z, < 
■< y 

J O Ck 

&. -< o 
fe a BS 

o « 

OS 



!5 H 

O D 
U M 



fc ;< 03 

H g&i 

m M a 



n 

D <) ^ a 
o 



« SI 



oS 



00 



9^ 



S5 -"l 



H 

09 
D 

O » 

< o 

> t> BS 
CC 5 02 
Wb5 

gxia 
J .•< 

^ as 1^ 

oil 

H 

a 
2; 



pq 






CQ 

M » 



^ M 



1-3 W 

S > 2 ^ .i 



a 

n 
o 

a <) 

g w 

r Q < 

° BJ « 
O 
CQ CO Q 

■oa 



EH 

o a 

B3 03 

a m 

< o 

(!< y 03 

D - 

<ia H 

u «u o 

H > I-) 

a «S =« 
w w a 

^ uy 

FHM& 

»3 H O 



Oi o 



t) a 






a z 



►J 73 a 
& a M 

D H >* 



« H a B P<"" 






a 

<i a 
a y 
OS a 
y<i 



a z 



la 



a cd 
^ 2« 

" ^ M a 

51 " CO 

l'*' I 
I ^03 i 

H << a Jj; 

aos o S 

OQ H Q 
B! -<! Q 
H Ha 

i ag 

S " z 
« wS 

w aj a, 



a 



» a 73 --■ 

►jqsa^ 

< a -^ W ^ 
a S a c« i 
t»o « r S 

y O 05 
OZ *1 ^ 

< CO 
aa 

B) o 
B3 H 



a 



. 03 



^^ 

tag 
K a f< 

no tH 

a m 

o 05 

a -«i tH 
►J es en 
O 



B5 

a 

H 

CO a 

a 
z a 

a z 

cc 5 
g » o 

^ ^. B3 g, 



^ a ^ 

eo " -si 

N a H 

oj ►"• a 






fe PS 

" ?a 



o 

B5 

m 



cog 
a 

(TO « y 

«j Eh 

>> «2 

— O ■^ 
" fe 

■O M 
§ H 

I- n 



bo 

CO fc H 

C a<i 

P< o 

>» ti 

re z 

T3 <) a 

to « a 

« g B5 

c ga 



a 
>j 

5, a 

B5 r> 

a a 

«s 

§5 

CO S 

" ^5" 

(U B5 !5 
bo H3 

^ ""« 



a" 
>. 

re 

■D 



01 

CO <i 
a o 



S S 

^ a 



i a 



M a ; 

« a 

^ 05 

^ «a 

T3 a 3 



(0 



a 
oa i» 3 

a 035 
Sa" 

« M r. 

«&o 
t< "^ a 

S 03 * 6 

a^ g 

a^^ g 

oj a& 
i* a a 03 

a "^ *■ 



CO 



449 



a 



f4 <J 



O M 

« 03 

n 

D 



Q 

tn 3 

15 
Q 11 

^H 
P5 iJ 

S ^ 

D z 0! 

,^" 
a ^ 

o 

H 



W 

"^ B J 

fS X U 

VI H 

H H H 

a H J 

O Ph 

Q « -« 

Z ^ 1^ 

O <1 Oh 



<^ r] K 

■"I » H 
"^ "^ ^ 



zn 



a 

CO H 



i5 M 






H H BS 
iJ H -ol 
O hS E-( 



t» H 5 

w 



to S Z <J 
O S z 

Oi iH H 



►J M 
05 H 



ggs 

Q OS 

M £ '^ 
ZH 

a « < 



n 



oz| 

K « ea 



iH W 1^ S 

ri M H t> 
O 
Z H D 
-OH 



fi OJ 



D H 
O 05 

D IS 



Pk 



W 2 



•^ Ph ^ 
< ^ B 



1^ w - 

Q CO 05 Q 
O W W 



W H OJ S'^ O 



W H 05 
W O EH 

«1 PM r 

05 
Q 

a 
td 

aj 
<l 
S 



<H« 

H 

h 

Z 

« 
O 

S Q M 

«1 g B 
Q ;5 « 



^9 



09 

Q 

So 
WIS 

etch 

« s 

a 



-J 
Is 



'«a 

Q Q 

< a 

OS o 

o 






03 t 

t- a 5 

«» EH S 

CO Q C 

f OS 

bfl o fa 

(l( 0; B 

w 13 M 

>» §0 
0) N 



pa 






^ S 5 H 

t— 03 r-i ^ 

*^ OJ r) 



450 



o N 



C- ^ 03 

" Q a as 



n 
■D 



a 



DO 
05 -«) 
!» 
Q 

5^ 
<0 

aS 
*V 

05 « I 

M \ ^ ^ 
Q) H & g 
ho O Ph s 

P^Sag 

S fa o*) 

^ g^D 

3 ^ .-^ 

*• H 

IS 03 

n 



<o 



So '»«' 
(1) b K( 

O fa 
^ Ofa 



HBO 

D O OS 

as *) 

^ - *1 
„ O H 
B Eh t< 

S-^ « 

S o S S 

W Eh H y 



ZO 



►J M 



' I 

o 



I-) 

2 Q 
Bi cj » 
Ph H W 

Oh 

to a 

n 






WO 



S!4 



So 

fe -"1 

D tfi 

M 



«w 



J ^ f< 

►J Q 1-1 
_ <1 3 

H '4 b 



5^ 



P a eg 

z i ^ o 

S o m" 

r, O CO a " 

g 2Se^ 



;^ ? ft. a 
2 '^ &< (^ 



o a 
wz 



■<) a 

►J y 

o 

fa " o 

a a 

a " 

« a 

na H 

EhO ii 

0! y 

? 'J 

a " 



a o 



S 09 OS 

<! Eh -i 

M a H 

^ IS 

k£z§S 

tn g o2bs 

aiog 

"oega 
M ag w 



ss« 



* 0! 2 2S 

«! •> O 

^1 



Q y 

a o 

o aa 

Eh ai 03 

< 

2 ^a 

H ^ < ^ 

„ H ^a 
Eh a a 

P O H 

O p. Z Q 
Z "3 O <J 

Q aS 
o o 

•^ s« 

a fc « 



W 
m 

< 
D 

aj g g C9 

gaga 
o M IT a 



as ^ 
I D 

a =? a o 

2o5:i 

Sgoo 

a 



5 ai 

ea|l 

JO! 



&o 



Ha 



a g 

o _ a 

Eh Bz Da 
D52o«j h5 

« E; B J 3 
B Z^ H H 
'-' o " S w 



oSi 






w 




451 






r- a; S5 

^3§ 



< rf 
o 



5w: 



Wo 
E5 5 



O E^ 

a .o W S 5 
3 H 0«i 



2 m; 



MP S 



h 



H Eh O 

a M g 

►J o <1 

^^ 



03 « 5 

fe o _^ 



n o 

«] o 



(0 

z 

O 
Ul 

I^ 

o^ 

O 

5 

or 



fe o a 

W-c ; 

&H O Q . 

5 = ^ 

P 30 ( 



§ § w 



n I-) 
n 



c0/-^2 m o 

_ "S te ^ S S 

H a 
H « 



I 

P4 Q 



Q 

_l 
O 
O 

I ^ 

tC CO 

z ^ 

Z bo 

- rt 

)^^ 
o 

5 
a 



a 



id 

O Q J "^ H 

K " o o 
«» S SI fa i^ 

Q Q 5 
H H ;^ 






7^E^ 
bJDS 



ooa 



z 
o 

UJ 

I 

op 

z <» 

3^ 

bs 

DC Hi 

H 
(0 

< 

UJ 









CO > 






o <1 






< 

lU <u 

< 



>JO>J 

H O 
-< (1( <| 



a 






^ 1^ o 



PS 



2<i 



^3 



&w5 



(0 

< 

IL 

Ill s 

CC " 

m V 

bo 
O ^ 

z 
5 

Q 
Ul 



^ 



^ w J 



"MM 
03 5 O 

&< m H 

OS <1 

^? 



M O 72 
' H W 
H !H 

E^ -►J 
H M J 

D Hh 

O ■*! 
M«OJ 

3 "^ "= 

«^&; 

P5 « B 

H S Q 

^ s 

m M a 
=* <i J 

h o 

^^ 



OS 



h2 



- OS 

MM 
OS Q 



CM <i 

Ph 



U. 
OH 

i-u.'"o 3 

3<b0"M 
I, «-^,OH 



U-DC 

m 

CO 

Q 

J 

I 
o 



°a S 

PS J H 



o M 



s ^ 

M « 
OS O! 



>^ 

z 
< 

I 



PS 

M o 

S H fa 

O M fa 

PSO 

i ^^ 

P< EH CO 

OH o 
02 cog 

oog 

'"' P< 

a 

o 

H 



O 
O 

<i a 

CO <i 
o 



05 a 
Z '^ 
» o 
oiS 

M to 

OS -^ 

H O H ,"« 

M ^ fa CO to 

QRg^to 



a. 

UJ 

z 
^ z 

e — 



5^ 



!? '^ j-h I? 



gfa 

OS a 

= a 



to 



(0 

< ? 

I 
o 



Mh 

O J 

o P< 
o p< 

li 

PS M 

K 



D W aj CO 

o K z 

M „ O 

2 . P< M W 

r« E-l '-' ■'^ 

Z t-5 fa H 
«C0 



^2wg 



Ph 

a 

m M ^ S O 
H r; ^j ^ 



"2a 

M 

452 



< 

DC 

o 

Zo ■« 

OO bo 

o_i 
b 

UJ 

z 
o 



CO -li 



H&5ga 

Q H £ ■J 

z z osS <i 

** * 2 a 



03 Eh 



H H 



►J as H H 
O H > J 
H S P 3 

Djg;a3 5 

J ^ <J M 
9 « 

H OS o » o 
H»ga 



DC 
O 

u. 

DC 

> 
Q. 

(0 



(0 



a ^ 

OiTi 

. '*' 

Ul c^ 



2h ^ 
55 



0! 

Sm 

MflS 
Pi « 

egz 

M Z Q t 
R 9 « 

2<z 

^""^ 

W Bl o 
M>rt 

gOQ 

J^ <j fa 
goS 

&a 

CQ 



is &, 



Q 3 

5 ffl OS 

■•l S fa 
PS^^ 

heh ! 

EH H ' 

a 03 ' 
n a 
W 

02 I 
« ' 

o ■ 

a 



INDEX 



Abbreviations, xii 
Adulteration of Food, 398-394 
After-Dinner CofEee, 418 
Agents, Leavening, ix 

Thickening, ix 
Alarm Clock, Use of, 250 
Alcohol as Fuel, 152 
Almond Rolls, 230 
Almonds Salted, 177 

to Blanch, 61 
Almond Steak, 256 
Alum, to Detect, 390 
Amounts to Serve 249 
Angel Cake, 246 
Angel Parfait, 277 
Appliances, Kitchen, 253-255 
Apple, Date and Celery Salad, 309 

Dumplings, 265 

Farci. 160 

Mint Jelly, 324 

Pie, 429 

Prune Stuffing, 144 

Salad, 44. 291 

Sauce, 56 

Tapioca. 203 
Apples, Baked, 173 

Coddled, 34, 295 

Fried. 27. 121 
Approximate Measure of One 

Ounce, iii 
Approximate Measure of One 

Pound, iii 
Apricot Pudding, 79 
Apricot and Red Plum Salad, 407 
Apricots. Stewed, 83 
Artificial Coloring, 390 

in Candies and jellies, 392 

Products, 390 
Asparagus, 294 

Canning, 360 

Soup, Cream of, 296 
Au Gratin, Cabbage, 49 

Carrots. 297 

Potatoes, 206 
Bacon. Broiled, 43, 77, 269, 326 

Curled. 406 

to Slice Thin. 218 

with Liver, 43 



Baked, Apples, 173 
Bananas, 88 
Beans. 31 

Codfish in Cream, 378 
Custard. 26 
Eggs, 370 
Figs, 239 
Green Peas, 382 
Ham, 49 

Loin of Mutton, 265 
Onions, 197. 236 
Potatoes, 118, 230 



Baked Potato Salad, 372 

Rice Pudding, 91 

Savory Rice, 368 

Squash, 194 

Sweet Potatoes, 131 

Tomatoes, 381 

Trout, 342 

Whitefish, 90 
Bakewell Pudding, 272 
Baking Powder, Composition, vi 

Proportions to Use, x 
Baking-Powder Biscuits, 24 
Balanced Diet, 181 

Proportions in, xii, 39, 113 
Balls, Cheese, 292 

Egg, 416 

Jerusalem Fish, 237 

Meat, 135 

New Potato, 353 

Pop Corn, 120 

Potato in Cream, 228 

Snow, 145 

Spinach, 94 
Banana and Nut Salad, 141 

and Peanut Salad, 341 

Shortcake, 133 
Bananas, Baked, 88 

Sauted, 198 

Sliced on Cereal, 30 
Barley Soup, Cream of. 43 
Basket. Frying, Use of, 250 
Bavarian Cream, 174 

Maple, 243 

Mock, 174 
Bean Croquettes, 81 
Beans, Boston Baked, 31 

Canning. 360 

Kidney. 79 

Lima, Dried, 202 

Lima, Green, 332 

String, 328. 378 

Creamed, 192 

Wax, 339 
Beef a la Mode, 290 

Boiled, 241 

Brown, Stew of, 51 

Cannelon of, 132 

Corned Beef Boiled, 167 

Corned Beef Hash, 168 

Corned Beef Stuffed. 399 

Dried with Cream, 238 

Fillet of, 417 

Flank Steak Braized, 140 

Flank Steak Stuffed, 46 

Frizzled. 367 
With Egg. 223 

Hamburg Cakes, 57 

Jellied, 337 

Meat Balls, 135 

Olives, 199 

Patties Broiled, 289 

Pot Roast, 194 



453 



454 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



Beef Pot Roast with Prunes, 78 

Pudding, 405 

Ragout of, 94 

Rib Roast, 142 

Roast, 35 

Roll, 260 

Rolls, Individual, 367 

Rump Roast, 335 

Sliced, 36 

Tongue Braized, 297 
Beefsteak, Broiled, 14 

Broiled Skirt, 25 

Devilled, 328 

Pie, 191 

Planked. 243 

with Onions, 267 

Round a la Quin, 410 
Beet Salad, 310 
Beets, Canned, 361 

Italian Fashion, 260 

in Mince Meat, 218 

Pickled, 300 
Belgian Hare, 129 
Bibliography, 437 
Bird's Nest Salad, 277 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 24 

Potato, 302 

Sour Cream, 78 

Sponge, 238 

Whole Wheat, 398 
Blackberry Sponge, 54 
Black Coffee, 418 
Blanc Mange, Cornstarch, 29 

Nut, 56 

Prune, 137 
Blanquettes of Calves' Hearts, 262 
Blueberry Tarts, 371 
Boiled Beef, 241 

Carrots, 85, 271 

Corned Beef, 167 

Frosting, 38 

Ham, 123 

Icing, 34 

Kohlrabi, 91 

Potatoes, 51, 366 

Rice, 197, 240, 327 

Salmon, 136 
Bonbons, 119 
Bouillon, Beef, 89, 416 

Tomato, 53 
Brains Sauted, 259 

Southern Style, 336 
Bread Making, 211, 215 
Bread, Brown, 31, 264 

Brown with Raisins, 270 

Care of. After Baking, 215 

Corn, 134 

Crumb Griddle Cakes, 165 

Crumbs, 62, 103 

Graham, 135 

Long Process, 212 

Milk and Water, 211 

Mixers. 214 

Nut, 256 

Pulled. 417 

Rve, 428 

Short Process. 204. 212 

Southern Spoon, 401 ' 



Bread, Whole Wheat, 236 

Yeast 212 
Breaded Mutton Chops, 231 

Veal Steak, 347 
Breakfast, May, 311 
Breakfast Muffins, 92 

Stew, 329 
Breakfast, Wedding, 352 
Bride's Cake. 354 
Brittle, Peanut, 120 
Brouilli, Eggs, 201 
Brown Betty, 234 

Bread, 31, 264 

Bread with Raisins, 270 

Flour, ix 

Gravy, 19, 32, 164, 309 

Stew of Beef, 51 

Sugar Syrup, 168 
Browned Hash, 52 

Fish Hash, 203 

Parsnips, 53, 165 

Potatoes, 35, 265, 335 

Spring Onions, 273 
Brownies, Nut, 93 
Brussels Sprouts, Creamed, 303 
Buckwheat Cakes, 159 
Buff. Potato, 398 
Buns, Hot Cross. 270 
Butter, Drawn, 342 

Cakes, Making, 105 

Lemon, 138 

Maitre d'Hotel, 28 

To Test, 393 
Buttered Toast, 11 

Crumbs, 62 
Butters, Jams and Marmalades, 
321 



Cabbage and Apple Salad, 194 

and Nut Salad, 28 

Au Gratin, 49 

Mould with Meat Balls, 135 

Soup, Cream of, 169 
Cabinet Pudding, 209 
Cafe Noir, 418 
Cake Making, 104-105 
Cake, Angel, 246 

Bride's, 354 

Cocoanut. 403 

Coffee, 55, 267 

Cup, 46 

Devil's Food, 138 

Hoe, 295 

Imperial, 409 

"Lightning," 374 

Nut Loaf, 34*5 

Peach Sponge, 165 

Pound, 204 

Sponge, 296, 339, 380 , 

Sunshine, 278 

Wedding, 354 

White. 33. 278. 304 
Cakes, Bread-Crumb Griddle, 165 

Buckwheat, 159 

Cream Puffs, 338 

Drop, 55, 331 

Emergency, 218 



INDEX 



455 



Cakes, Graham Drop, 406 

Fish, 54 

Flannel, 190 

Ginger Snaps, 78 

Hamburg, 57 

Hermits. 129 

Chocolate, 262 

Lightning Tea, 374 

Macaroons, Almond, 121 

Macaroons, Oatmeal, 170 

Nut Brownies, 93 

Potato, 127 

Rice, 163 

Spice, 239 
Calf Brains, Sauted, 259 

Southern Style, 336 
Calf Heart, Braized, 160 
Calories or Food Units, xil 

Required Daily, 71 

Tables of, 114, 116 
Canapes, Fish, 416 

Peach, 300 
Candied Sweet Potatoes, 59 
Candies, 117, 121 

Bon-bons, 119 

Caramels, 119 

Chocolate Creams, 118 

Divinity, 121 

Fondant, 117 
Chocolate, 118 
Coffee, 118 
Maple, 118 

Fruit and Nut Loaf, 118 

Fudge, Chocolate, 119 

Macaroons, 121 

Mints, Cream, 118 

Neapolitan Creams, 118 

Parisian Sweets, 120 

Peanut. 120 

Peanut Brittle, 120 

Penocha, 119 

Pop Corn Balls, 120 

Stuffed Dates, 120 

Taffy Brown, 120 

Taffy, White. 119 

Torpedo, 387 
Candy Making, 117-121 
Canned Asparagus, 360 

Beans, 360 

Beets, 361 

Corn With Hulls, 358 

Corn Without Hulls, 360 

Corn and Tomatoes, 361 

Peaches, 322 

Peas, 360 

Pineapples, 323 

Quince and Apple, 323 

Tomatoes. 360 
Cannelon, Beef, 132 
Cannelons, Fruit, 291 
Canning and Preserving, 317-325 

Canning Fruit. 318 
Canning of Vegetables, 357-363 
Cantaloupe. 16 
Cantaloupe, Sherbert, 407 
Caramel Custard, 56 

Frosting. 431 



Caramel Sauce, 400 

Syrup. 80 

Caramels. 119 
Cards, Menu Suggestion, 184 
Care After Frying, 103 
Care of Bread After Baking, 215 

Care of Food in the Home, 285-2SS 
Carrots au Gratin, 297 

Boiled, 85, 271 

Creamed, 335 

In Turnip Cups, 136 
Carving at Table, 248 
Cases, Timbale, 176 
Catsup, Tomato, 433 
Cauliflower, Creamed, 347 
Celery, Apple and Green Pepper 
Salad, 162 

Carrot and Nut Salad, 351 

Creamed, 209 

Soup, Cream of, 122 

Stewed, 234 

Walnut Salad, 210 
Cereals, Breakfast 

Cornflakes, 20 

Cream of Wheat with Dates, 16 

Farina, 34 

Farina with Prunes, 47 

Oatmeal, 10 

Oatmeal. Cold Water, 23 

Puffed Wheat and Grapenuts, 

Pet"tijohn, 137 

Ralston Food. 54 

Shredded Wheat with Sliced 
Bananas. 30 

With Peaches, 124 

With Strawberries, 348 

Wheat Berries with Baked 
Apples, 263 
Cellulose, xii 

Effect of Heat on, v 
Chafing Dish Supper, 245 
Chafing Dishes, 248 
Chambery Potatoes, 289 
Cheese Balls. 292 
Cheese, Cottage, 53, 61 

Crumpets, 55 

Fondue, 50 

Omelet, 193 

Pimento Sandwiches, 60 

Sauce, 341 

Souffle, 330 

Tomato Pudding, 89 
Cherry Pie. 345 

Mock Cherry, 170 

Pudding, 366 

Salad, 334 

Souffle, 194 
Chestnut Stuffing, 208 
Chicken Croquettes, 276 

Fricassee. 173 

Fried, 308 

Smothered, 383 

Stewed. 96 
Child's Fourth of July Party, 386 
Chili Sauce, 363 



456 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



Chocolate, 13, 37, 342 

Bread Pudding, 49 

Caramels, 119 

Creams, 118 

Farina Custard, 268 

Fudge, 119 

Fudge Frosting, 430 

Fondant, 118 

Hermits, 262 

Iced, 371 

Mousse, 207 

Pudding Steamed, 167 

Sauce, 19 
Chops, Flank, 402 

Lamb, 22, 301, 311 

Mutton, Breaded, 231 

Pork, 172 
Chow-chow, 363 
Chowder, Clam, 430 

Fish, 430 

Pea, 240 
Christmas Dinner, 144 
Cinnamon Rolls, 45, 304 
Clarifying Fat, 103 
Cleaning Silver, 216 
Clear Tom.ato Soup, 98 
Club Sandwiches, 385 
Coal as Fuel, 149 
Coal Oil as Fuel, 152 
Coal and Wood Stoves, 152 
Cobbler, Peach, 410 
Cocoa, 13, 37 

Marshmallows, in, 37 
Cocoanut Cake. 403 

Custard Pie, 372 

Frosting, 403 

Tapioca Cream, 192 
Cocktail, Mint, 276 

Sauce, 144 

Shrimp, 144 
Coddled Apples, 34, 295 
Codfish, Baked in Cream, 378 

Creamed, 127 

Creole Style, 193 

Puffs, 379 

Scalloped with Rice, 44 
Coffee, 10 

Adulterations in. 390 

After-dinner, 418 

Iced, 410 

Percolator, 37 
Coffee Cake, 55 

Charlotte Russe, 335 

Cream, 226 

Fondant, 118 
Coke as Fuel, 150 
Combination Salad, 87 
Combinations of Food, Pleasing, 

182 
Compositions of Foods, v 
Conveniences, Kitchen, 253-255 
Cookies, Ginger Snaps, 78 

Lemon, 386 

Molasses, 327 

Oatmeal, 196, 380 

Sugar, 428 
Corn, Canned with Hulls, 358 



Corn, Canned Without Hulls, 360 

on Cob, 375 

on Cob, Steamed, 403 

Custard, 406 

Fritters, 376 

Scalloped, 368 

Scalloped with Tomatoes, 132 

Souffle, 27 

Soup, Cream of, 742 

Stewed, 58 

and Tomatoes, Canned, 361 
Cornbread, 134 
Corned Beef, Boiled, 167 

Hash, 168 

Stuffed, 399 
Cornmeal Gems, 27 

MufBns, 161 

Mush, 121 

Mush, Fried, 124 

Puffs, 229 
Cornstarch as Thickening, ix 

Blanc Mange, 29 

Substitute for, 38 
Cost of Food and Food Value 

September, Menus, 39 
Reducing the Cost, 40 

October Menus, 63-70 

November Menus, 106-113 

December Menus, 147 
Reducing the Cost, 148 

January Menus, 179 

Reducing the Cost, 180 

February Menus, 219 
Reducing the Cost 220 

March Menus, 251 

Reducing the Cost, 252 

April Menus, 282 

Reducing the Cost, 283 

May menus, 315 

Reducing the Cost, 316 

June Menus, Summary, 356 
Reducing the cost, 356 

July Menus, Summary, 385 

August Menus, 421 

Reducing the Cost, 422 
Cottage Cheese, 53, 61 

Pie, 18 

Pudding, 19 
Cottonseed Oil, Tests for, 393 
Country Sausage, 121 
Cracked Wheat, 141, 201 
Cracker Crisps, 98 
Cracking Point of Fat, 102 
Cranberry Jelly, 93 

In Orange Cups, 99 
Cranberry Sauce, 209 
Cream, Bavarian, 174 

Coffee, 226 

Egg and Cheese, 411 

English, 133 

Filling, 88, 338 

Fruit, 329 

Imperial, 177 

Maple, Bavarian, 243 

Mock, Bavarian, 174 

Muffins, 269 

Patties, 355 



INDEX 



457 



Cream PufEs, 338 

Rice, 332 

Sauce, 84, 167 

Scones, 232 

Tapioca Cocoanut, 192 

Whipped, 36 
Cream of Fruits, 381 
Cream of Asparagus Soup, 296 

Barley Soup, 43 

Cabbage Soup, 169 

Celery Soup, 122 

Corn Soup, 142 

Pea Soup, 12 

Potato Soup, 77 

Rice Soup, 161 

Squash Soup, 198 

Tomato Soup, 25 

Vegetable Soup, 233 

Wheat, Fried, 168 

Wheat, Molded, 376 
Cream Soups, 62 
Creamed Brussels Sprouts, 303 

Carrots, 335 

Cauliflower, 347 

Celery, 209 

Codfish, 127 

Dried Beef, 238 

Mackerel, 229 

Onions, 160 

Peas, 22 

Potatoes, 25 

Sardines, 190 

String Beans, 192 

Sweetbreads, 143 

Turnips, 97 

Zweibach. 298 
Creaming Butter, 218 
Creole Lamb, 398 
Cress and Orange Salad, 368 
Croquettes, Bean, 81 

Chicken, 276 

Macaroni, 341 

Nut, 306 

Potato, 272 

Rice and Cheese, 395 

Salmon, 386 

Savory Rice, 242 

Sweetbread, 353 

Sweet Potato and Almond, 93 

Sweet Rice, 126 

To Egg and Crumb, 104 

To Shape, 280 

Veal, 301 
Croutons, 13 
Crown Roast of Lamb, 412 

of Pork, 273 
Crumbs, Bread, 62, 102 

Buttered, 62 
Crumpets, Cheese, 55 
Crush, Currant, 351 

Gooseberry, 401 
Cuban Pudding, 197 
Cubes, Potato, 165, 297 
Cucumber a la Poulette, 291 

and French Dressing, 303 
Cucumber Pickles, Ripe, 362 

Unripe, 362 



Cucumber Salad, 405 

and Radish Salad, 332 

and Sweetbread Salad, 176 

Sliced, 375 
Cup Cakes, 46 
Curled Bacon, 406 
Currant Crush, 351 

Ice, 417 
Currants, Spiced, 362 
Custard, Baked, 26 

Caramel, Baked, 56 

Chocolate Farina, 268 

Corn, 406 

Fruit, 403 

Sauce, 366 

Soft, 139, 329 
Cutlets, Veal, 32 
Cuts of Meat, 221, 222 

Danish Sweet Soup, 81 
Date Muffins, 173 
Dates, Stuffed, 120 

with Cereals, 16 
Delmonico Potatoes, 162 
Devilled Ham Sandwiches, 350 
Devilled Steak, 328 
Devil's Food Cake, 138 
Diet, Balanced, 11, 39, 71, 181 
Diet for the Sick, 313-314 
Dinner, Christmas, 144 
Dinner, Formal, 414 
Dinner, Thanksgiving, 98 
Dishwashing, 73-76 
Divinity Candy, 120 
Doughnuts, 170 
Drawn Butter, 342 
Dressing Fowls, 101 
Dressing Salad, Boiled, 29, 139 

French, 172, 178 

Mayonnaise, 177 
Dried Beef, Creamed, 238 
Drop Cakes, 55, 331 

Graham, 406 
Duchess Potatoes, 302 
Duck, Mock, 224 

Roast, 208 
Dumplings, Baking-powder, 51 

Apple, 265 

Easter Luncheon, 276 

Economy in Food, 185 

Egg and Cheese, Cream, 411 

and Cheese Salad, 377 

and Cress Salad, 273 

and Tomato Jelly Salad, 171 

Balls, 416 

Beater, Use of, 250 

Plant, Fried, 122 

Rolls, 295 

Sandwiches, 404 

Sauce, 136 

Timbals, 298 
Eggs a la Buckingham, 292 

a la Suisse, 170 

Baked, 370 

Brouilli, 201 

English Fashion, 401 



458 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



Eggs in Batter, 226 

in Nests, 348 

Poached on Toast, 30 

Poached Creole Style, 58 

Rolls, 295 

Sandwiches, 404 

Sauce, 136 

Scrambled with Chopped Meat, 
256 

Scrambled with Tomatoes, 364 

Shirred, 340 

Soft Cooked, 11 
Electric Cooking, 151 
Electric Meters, Reading, 156 
Emergency Cakes, 218 
Emergency Meals, 287 
English Apple Tart, 141 
English Cream, 133 
Espagnole Sauce, 87 
Extracts, Test for, 391 

Fanchonettes, Pineapples, 294 

Fancy Pineapple, 369 

Farci, Apple, 160 

Farina, 34 

Fat, effect of heat on, vi 

Food value of, 12 

Frying in, 102 
Fig Pudding, 99 

Turnovers, 204 
Figs, Baked, 239 

Jellied, 123 

Stewed, 199 
Fillet of Beef, 417 
Filling, Cream, 88, 338 

Olive, Pimento and Cheese, 246 
Finger Rolls, 276 
Finnan-Haddie a la Delmonico, 53 
Fireless Cooker, The, 157-158 

Dinner, 422 

Substitute, 250 

Fireless Cooker Recipes: 
Baked Ham, 49 
Beef a la Mode, 290 

Boiled, 241 

Boiled Corned, 167 

Corned Boiled, 167 

Olives, 199 

Pot Roast, 194 
with Prunes, 78 

Ragout of, 94 

Roll, 260 

Rump Roast with Catsup, 325 
Belgian Hare en Casserole, 129 
Boiled Beef, 241 

Corned Beef, 167 

Ham, 123 

Salmon, 136 
Braized Beef Tongue, 297 

Flank Steak, 140 

Heart, 160 

Liver, 227 
Casserole Savory Meat, 365 
Chicken, Smothered, 383 

Stewed, 96 
Devilled Steak, 328 



Fireless Cooker Recipes (Cont'd.) 

Ham, Baked, 48 
Boiled, 123 

Heart, Braized, 160 

Lamb, Lenox, with Peas, 349 

Liver, Braized, with Vege- 
tables, 227 

Meat Casserole, Savory, 365 

Mock Pigeon, 87 

Noodle Soup, 240 

Olives, Beef, 199 

Pea, Split, Soup. 227 

Pigeon, Mock, 87 

Pot Pie of Veal. 126 

Pot Roast, 194 
With Prunes, 78 

Ragout of Beef, 94 

Roast Rump, with Catsup, 335 

Shoulder of Veal, 169 

Roll Beef, 260 

Salmon, Boiled, 136 

Savory Meat Casserole, 365 

Shoulder of Veal, 169 

Smothered Chicken, 383 

Soup, Noodle, 240 
Split Pea, 227 

Steak, Devilled, 328 
Flank, Braized, 140 
Round, a la Quin, 410 

Stew, Brown, of Beef, 51 

Stewed Chicken, 96 

Tongue, Braized Beef, 297 

Veal, Mock Pigeon, 87 
Pot Pie, 126 
Roast Shoulder of, 169 

Fish a la Creme, 305 

Baked, 90 

Balls, Jerusalem, 237 

Cakes, 54 

Canapes, 416 

Care of, 90 

Chowder, 430 

Finnan-Haddie, 53 

Fried, 407 

Halibut a la Poulette, 268 
Broiled, 28 
Turbans, 353 

Hash Browned, 203 

Scalloped with Macaroni, 271 

Stuffing and Trussing, 90 

Tests for Fresh, 90 

with Brown Sauce, 408 

White, 90 
Flank Chops, 402 

Steak, Braized, 140 

Steak, Stuffed and Baked, 46 
Flannel Cakes, 190 
Flavoring, xi 
Floating Island, 15 
Flour Tests, 104 
Foamy Sauce, 99 
Fondant, 117 

Chocolate. 118 

Coffee, 118 

Maple, 118 
Fondue Cheese, 50 



INDEX 



459 



Food Adulterations, 389-394 
Food, Care of, in the Home, 

285-288 
Food Economy, 185 

Principles, xii 
Food Value and Cost. 39, 70, 113, 

147, 179. 219, 251, 282, 315, 356, 

385, 421 
Food Values, Tables of, 114-118 
Food Units or Calories, xii 

Required per Day, 71 

Tables of, 114-118 
Formal Dinner, 414 
Formal Luncheon, 276 
Fourth of July Party, 386 
Fowl, Dressing and Trussing, 101 
Franconia Potatoes. 143, 332, 417 
Frankforts, Hot, 404 
French Dressing, 172, 178 
French Fried Sweet Potatoes, 258 
French Hash, 264 
French Omelet, 406 

Toast, 20 
Fresh Currant Crush, 351 
Fresh Gooseberry Crush, 401 
Fresh Plums, 408 
Fricassee of Chicken, 173 

of Lamb, 293 

of Veal, 299 
Fricassed Oysters, 244 
Fried Apples. 27, 121 

Chicken, 308 

Cornmeal Mush, 124 

Cream of Wheat, 168 

Egg Plant, 122 

Fish, 407 

Tripe in Batter, 134 
Fritters, Corn, 376 

Oatmeal, 83 

Potato. German Fashion, 199 
Frizzled Beef, 367 

with Egg, 223 
Frosting, Boiled, 34, 38 

Caramel, 431 

Chocolate Fudge, 430 

Cocoanut, 403 

Maple, 431 

Marshmallow, 431 

Mocha. 305. 345 

Pistachio, 431 

Quick, 430 
Frozen Pudding, 418 
Fruit, Cannelons, 291 

Cream, 329 

Custard. 403 

Gems. 207 

and Nut Loaf, 118 

Pudding, 92 

Punch. 353. 413 

Roll. Steamed, 241 

Salad, 35 

Soup. 412 
Fruit Preservation, 317-325 
Frying in Deep Fat, 102 

Temperature of, iv, 103 

Timbals. 176 

Use of Basket in, 250 



Fudge. Chocolate, 119 

Chocolate Frosting, 430 
Fuels and Stoves, 149-158 
Fuels, Relative Costs of, 157 

Gas as Fuel, 150 
How to Use, 151 

Rate of Burning, 151 

Meters, Reading. 155 
Gasoline as Fuel, 152 

Stoves, 154 
Gelatine, vi 

Effect of Heat on, vl 
Gems, Cornmeal, 27 

Fruit, 207 

Graham, Nut, 191 

Lemon, 399 
General Directions, 9 
Gerkins, 362 
German Puff, 333 

Puffs, 273 

Toast, 304 
Giblet Sauce, 209 
Gingerbread, 239 
Gingered Pears, 323 
Ginger Snaps, 78 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes, 59 
Glossary, 439 
Goose Roast, 145 
Gooseberry Crush, 401 
Graham Bread, 135 

Drop Cakes, 406 

Nut Gems, 191 
Grapes, 23 
Grape-Fruit, 58. 61 

Date and Nut Salad, 243 
Grape Jam, 324 
Grapenut Puddins-. 51 
Gravy, 19. 32, 309 

Brown, 164 
Green Onions, 410 

Peas, 293 

Peas, Baked, 382 

Tomato Pickle, 431 
Griddle Cakes, Bread-Crumb, 165 
Grisini, 354 
Grits, Hominy, 195 

Halibut a la Poulette, 268 

'Broiled, 28 

Turbans, 353 
Ham. Baked, 49 

Boiled, 123 

Eggs a la Berg, 162 

Omelet, 125 

Scalloped, 382 
Hamburg Cakes, 57 
Hard Sauce, 85 

Hare, Belgium en Casserole, 129 
Hash, Browned, 52 

Corned Beef, 168 

Fish, Browned, 203 

French, 264 
Hashed Browned Potatoes, 166 
Heart. Braized, 160 
Hermits, 129 

Chocolate, 262 



460 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



Hoe Cake, 295 
Hollandaise Salmon, 245 

Sauce, 91 
Hominy Grits, 195 

Souffle, 192 
Hongroise Potatoes, 293 
Horseradish Sauce, 417 
Hot Caramel Sauce, 400 
Hot Cross Buns, 270 
Hot Frankfurts, 404 
Hot Slaw, 228, 400 
Hot Weather Meals, 423-427 

Ice Cream, Frozen Pudding, 418 

Peach, 412 

Strawberry, 350 

Test for, 392 

Vanilla, 309 
Ice, Currant, 417 

Lemon, 246 

Lemon Milk, 297 

Raspberry, 375 
Iced Chocolate, 371 

Coffee, 410 

Fruit Soup, 412 
Icing, Boiled, 34 
Imperial Cake, 409 
Imperial Cream, 177 
Indian Pudding, 85 
Invalid Diet, 313-314 
Individual Beef Rolls, 367 

Meat Pies, 261 
Invitations to Formal Dinner, 414 
Irish Stew, 86 
Island, Floating, 15 

Jam, Grape, 324 

Jams and Marmalades, 321 

Jellied Beef, 337 

Figs, 123 

Veal, 205 
Jelly, Apple and Mint, 324 

Cranberry, 93 

Cranberry in Orange Cups, 99 

Mint and Green Pea, 312 

Omelet, 142 

Prune, 237 

Rose Geranium, 324 

Tests for, 325 
Jellies, 320 

Combinations for, 324 
Jerusnlem Fish Balls, 237 

Pudding, 258 
Junket, 331 

Keeping Cheese from Drying, 218 
Food Without Ice, 286 

Ketchup, 431 

Kerosene as Fuel, 152 
Stoves, 154 

Kibbee, 271 

Kidney Beans, 79 
Bean Salad, 263 

Kidney, Stewed, 206 
with Macaroni, 128 

Kitchen Conveniences and Appli- 
ances, 253-255 



Kneading Bread, 214 
Knofli, 200 
Kohlrabi, Boiled, 91 
Krummel Torta, 44 

Labor Saving Cook Stoves, 153 
Lamb Chops, Pan Broiled, 22, 301, 

311 

Creole, 398 

Crown Roast, 412 

Fricassee, 293 

Lenox, with Peas, 349 

Roast, 84 

Roast, Leg, 396 
Laying the Table, 10 

for Formal Dinner, 415 
Leavening Agents, ix 
Leftovers, Care of, 287 
Lemon Butter, 138 

Cookies, 386 

Cream Sauce, 99 

Gems, 399 

Milk Sherbet, 297 

Pie, 130 

Sauce, 241, 407 

Sherbet, 246 

Sponge, 139 
Lemonade, 18 

Lenox Lamb, with Peas, 349 
Lentil Souffle, 204 
Lettuce Salad, 172, 331, 366 

Shredded, 280 

Wilted, 306 
Lightning Tea Cakes. 374 
Lima Beans, Dried, 202 

Green. 332 
Liver, Braized, with Vegetables, 

227 

Broiled, with Bacon, 43 
Loaf Salmon, 202 

Veal, 234 
Loin of Mutton, Baked, 265 
Lunch Box, The Worker's, 188 
Luncheon, Easter, 276 
Luncheon, Informal, 176 
Luncheon Rolls, 290 
Luncheons, School, 187 
Lunch, Picnic, 387 
Lyonnaise Potatoes, 21 

Macaroni and Cheese, 24 

Croquettes, 341 

English Fashion, 237 

Salad, 46 

Scalloped, with Tomatoes, 190 

with Brown Sauce, 268 

with Mushrooms and Kidney, 
128 
Macaroons, Almond, 121 

Oatmeal, 170 
Mackerel, Creamed, 229 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, 28 
Maple Bavarian Cream, 243 

Custard Pie, 200 

Fondant, 118 

Frosting, 431 
Mapleine Syrup, 165 



INDEX 



461 



Marketing, 221-222 
Marguerites, 396 
Marmalade, 321 

Tomato, 325 
Marshmallow Frosting, 431 
Marshmallows in Cocoa, 37 
Masiied Potatoes, 14 
May Breakfast, 311 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 177 
Measures and Weights, ill 
Meat Balls, 135 

Casserole, Savory, 365 

Cuts of, 221 

Mince, 428 

Pies, Individual, 261 

Souffle, 196 
Menu Making, 181-187 
Menu Suggestion Cards, 186 
Menus for Hot Weatlier, 425 
Meringue, 37 
Methods of Cooking, iii 
Milk Sherbet, Lemon, 297 

Toast, 48 

Toast, German Style, 261 
Mince Meat, 428 

Beets in, 218 

Pie, 429 

Tongue in. 250 
Mint Cocktail, 276 

and Green Pea Jelly, 312 

Punch, 369 

Sauce, 84 
Misbranding, 390 
Mocha Frosting, 305, 345 
Mock Bavarian Cream, 174 

Cherry Pie, 170 

Duck, 224 

Oysters, 236 

Pigeon, 87 

Raspberry Mousse, 32 
Molasses Cookies, 327 
Mould Cabbage, 135 
Moulded Cream of Wheat, 376 

Cucumber Jelly Salad, 354 

Salmon. 371 
Mousse, Chocolate, 207 

Mock, Raspberry, 32 
Muffins, 17 

Breakfast, 92 

Cornmeal, 161 

Cream 269 

Date, 173 

Rice, 330 

Rye, 128 

Zante, 289 
Mush, Cornmeal, 121 

Cornmeal, Fried, 124 
Mushroom Sauce, 276, 339 
Mushroom, with Macaroni and 

Kidney. 128 
Mushrooms, Canned, 280 
Muskmelon. 398 
Mutton. Baked Loin of, 265 

Chops, Breaded, 231 

Ramikins. 266 

Roast, 368 

and Tomato Pie, 370 



Neapolitan Creams, 118 

New Beets, Pickled, 300 

New Potato Balls, 353 

New Potatoes in Cream, 260, 347 

Noodles, 239 

Noodle Soup, 240 

Nut Blanc Mange, 56 

Bread, 256 

Brownies, 93 

Croquettes, 306 

Loaf Cake, 345 ^„ „^^ „„^ 

Salads, 28, 140, 210, 243, 351, 373 
Nutmeg as flavoring, 61 

Sauce, 234 
Nuts, Use of, 61 

Oatmeal, 11 

Cold Water, 23 

Cookies, 196, 380 

Fritters, 83 

Macaroons, 170 

Timbales, 48, 295 

Waffles, 235 
Oleomargarine, Tests for, 393 
Olives, Beef. 199 _.„ 

Olive, Pimento and Cheese Fill- 
ing, 246 
Olive Oil Pickles, 363 
Omelet, Cheese, 193 

French, 406 

Ham, 125 

Jelly, 142 

Orange, 395 

Spanish, 327 

One O'clock Informal Luncheon, 

176 
Onions, Baked, 197, 236 

Browned, Spring, 273 

Creamed, 160 

Green, 410 

Salad, 337 

Souffle, 306 
Orangeade, 407 
Orange and Celery Salad, 192 

and Cherry Salad, 99 

and Malaga Grape Salad, 225 

and Mint Salad, 349 

Omelet, 395 

Sauce, 79 

Surprise, 82 
Oranges. 77 

to Prepare for Serving, 280 
Oysters a la Creole, 176 

Fricasseed, 244 

Mock, 236 

Scalloped, 175 

Stew, 97 

Paper Towels, 216 
Parfait. Angel, 277 

Peach, 384 

Pineapple, 335 
Parisian Potatoes, 79 

Sweets, 119 
Parsnips, Browned, 53, 165 

Timbales, 169 



462 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



Party, Fourth of July, 386 
Paste, Puff, 429 
Pastry Flour, 104 
Pastry, Plain, 130 
Patties, Broiled Beef, 289 

Cream, 355 
Patty Shells, 430 
Pea Chowder, 240 

Soup, Cream of, 12 
Peach Canapes, 300 

Cobbler, 410 

Ice Cream, 412 

Parfait, 384 

Shortcake, 47, 405 

Sponge Cake, 165 

Tapioca, 35 
Peaches, Canned, 322 

Iced and Stuffed, 378 

in Bloom, 397 

Pickled, 361 
Peanut and Banana Salad, 341 

Brittle, 120 

Candy, 120 
Peas. 231, 263 

Canned, 360 

Creamed, 22 

English Fashion, 225 

Green, 293 
Pears, Gingered, 323 
Pectin, 321 
Penocha, 119 
Peppermint Creams, 118 
Percolator Coffee, 37 
Pettijohn, 137 
Pfeffer Nuesse, 270 
Pickle, Green Tomato, 431 
Pickles, Olive Oil, 363 

Ripe Cucumber, 362 

Unripe Cucumber (Gherkin), 
362 

Watermelon Rind, 363 
Pickled Beets, 300 

Cherries, 361 

Peaches, 361 

Pears 361 
Picnic Lunch Basket, 387 
Pie, Apple, 429 

Beefsteak, 191 

Cherry, 345 

Cocoanut Custard, 372 

Cottage, 18 

Individual Meat, 261 

Lemon, 130 

Maple Custard, 200 

Mince, 429 

Mock Cherry. 170 

Mutton and Tomato, 370 

Pigeon Mock, 87 

Pot, of Veal, 126 

Prune, 228 

Pumpkin, 429 

Rhubarb, 260 

Shepherd's, 227 

Squash, 429 

Washington, 87 
Pilaf, Turkish. 224 
Pimento and Olive Salad, 245 



Pineapple, Canned, 323 

Fanchonettes, 294 

Fancy, 369 

Parfait, 355 

Snovi', 263 

Tapioca, 169 

Trifle, 377 

and Banana Salad, 274 

and Cheese Salad, 397 
Pistachio Frosting, 431 
Plain Pastry, 130 
Planked Shad, 302 

Steak, 243 
Planning of Meals, 181-187 
Pleasing Combinations of Food, 

182 
Plums, Fresh, 408 
Poached Eggs, 38 

Creole Style, 58 

on Toast, 30 
Poor Man's Tartlets, 264 
Popcorn Balls, 120 
Popovers, 204 
Porcupine Salad, 60 
Pork, Bacon, Broiled, 43, 77, 269 

Chops, 172 

Crown of, 273 

Ham, Baked, 49 
Boiled, 123 

Roast, 59 

Sausage, 121 

Spareribs, 332 

Tenderloin, 82 
Potato Balls in Cream, 228 

Balls, New, 353 

Biscuit, 302 

Buff, 398 

Cakes, 127 

Croquettes, 272 

Cubes, 165, 297 

Fritters, German Fashion, 199 

and Pea Salad, 413 

Puffs, 195, 311 

Salad, 364 

Soup. Cream of, 77 

Stuffing, 98 

Timbales, 50 
Potatoes a la Anna, 169 

a la Creme, 237 

a la Maitre Hotel, 85 

au Gratin. 206 

Baked, 18, 230 

Boiled, 51, 366 

Browned, 35, 265, 335 

Browned in Cream, 77 

Chambery, 289 

Creamed, 25 

Delmonico, 162 

Duchess, 302 

Franconia, 143, 332, 417 

liYied, from the Raw, 258 

Hashed Browned, 166 

Hongroise, 293 

Lyonnaise, 21 

Mashed, 14 

New, in Cream, 260, 347 

on the Half Shell, 405 



INDEX 



463 



Potatoes, Parisian, 79 
Riced, 203, 271 
Scalloped. 130 

with Bacon, 334 
Smothered, 58 
Steamed, 328 
Stewed, 231 
Stuffed, 28 

with Meat, 201 
Sweet, French Fried, 258 
Sweet, Glazed, 59 
Warmed in Mim, 267 
with Butter Sauce, 410 
Pot-pie, Veal, 126 
Pot Roast, 194 

with Prunes, 78 
Pound Cake, 204 
Prepared Foods, 423 
Preparing Fruits for Salads, 218 
Preservatives, 389 

in Milk, 393 
Preserve Jars, 317, 358 
Preserves, Rhubarb and Fig. 323 
Strawberry and Cherry, 3id 
Sunshine, 320 
Tomato, 323 
Preserving Fruit, 317-325 
Preventing Fat Absorption, 103 
Preventing Fruit Discoloration, 

217 
Proteins, xii 

Effects of Heat on, vi 
Prune Blanc Mange, 137 
Jelly, 237 
Pie, 228 

Souffle, 23 ^ „^„ 

Prunes, Stewed, 20, 269 
Pudding, Apple Tapioca, 203 
Apricot, Steamed, 79 
Baked Rice, 91 
Bakewell, 272 
Beef, 405 

Blackberry Sponge, 54 
Bread, 49, 167 
Cabinet, 209 
Cherry, 366 
Chocolate Bread, 49 

Steamed, 167 
Cottage, 19 
Cuban, 197 
Fig, Steamed, 99 
Frozen, 418 
Fruit, 92 
Grapenut. 51 
Indian, 85 
Jerusalem, 258 
Peach Tapioca, 35 
Sponge, 343 
St. David's. 231 
Tomato and Cheese, 89 
Yorkshire, 143 
Puff, German, 333 
Puff Paste, 429 

Puffed Wheat and Grapenuts, 326 
Puffs, Codfish. 379 
Cornmeal, 229 
Cream, 338 



Puffs, German, 273 

Potato, 195, 311 
Pulled Bread, 417 
Pumpkin Pie, 429 

Scalloped with Rice, 82 

Timbale, 123 
Punch, Fruit, 353, 413 

Mint, 369 

Quail. Roasted, 164 

Scalloped, 166 
Quick IVleals for Hot Weather, 

423-427 
Quick Dinners, 426 

Frosting, 430 

Luncheons, 425 
Quince and Apple, Canned, SiS 

Rabbit Stew, 132 
Radishes, 347 
Ragout of Beef, 94 
Raisin Brown Bread, 270 
Ralston Breakfast Food, 54, 223 
Ramikins, Mutton, 266 
Rarebit, Rice, 373 

Welsh, 159 , „„ 

Raspberry Mousse, Mock, 32 
Raspberry, Pineapple and Plum 
Salad, 386 
Sherbet, 375 
Sponge, 303 
Refrigerator, Care of, 286 
Relative Cost of Fuels, 157 
Rhubarb and Fig Preserves, 323 
Pie, 260 
Pudding, 366 
Sauce, 344 „„„ 

Rice, Boiled, 197, 240, 327 
Cakes, 163 
Cream, 332 
Croquettes, Savory, 242 

Sweet, 126 
Cheese Croquettes, 395 
Muffins, 380 
Pudding, 91 
Rarebit, 373 
Savory, Baked, 368 
Scalloped with Codfish, 44 
Scalloped with Pumpkin, 82 

with Tomatoes, 162 
Souffle, 259 ^ ^^^ 
Soup, Cream of, 161 
Steamed, 295 
Waffles, 198 
Riced Potatoes, 203, 271 
Ripe Cucumber Pickles, 362 
Risotto. 140 
Roast Beef, 35 
Roast Beef, Rib, 142 
Duck, 208 
Goose, 145 
Lamb, 84. 396, 412 
Mutton, 368 
Pork, 59 
Pot, 194 

Pot, with Prunes, 78 
Quail, 164 



464 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



Roast, Rump, 335 

Turkey, 99 

Veal, 18 
Roasted Spareribs, 332 
Roasts, Cuts of, 222 

Pot, 78, 194 
Roll, Beef, 260 

Fruit, Steamed, 241 

Surprise, 402 

"Veal and Potato, 171 
Rolled Vanilla Wafers, 277 
Rolls, Almond, 230 

Cinnamon, 45, 304 

Egg, 295 

Finger, 276 

Individual Beef, 367 

Luncheon, 290 

Swedish, 224 
Rose Geranium Jelly, 324 
Round Steak a la Quin, 410 
Rump Roast with Catsup, 335 
Russian Salad, 346 
Rye Bread, 428 

Muffins, 128 

Sabyon Sauce, 163, 274 
Salad, Apple, 44, 291 
Apple, Date and Celery, 309 
Apricot and Red Plum, 407 
Baked Potato, 372 
Banana and Nut, 140 

and Peanut, 341 
Beet, 310 
Bird's Nest. 277 
Cabbage and Apple, 194 

and Nut, 28 
Celery, Apple and Green Pep- 
per, 162 

Carrot and Nut, 351 

and Walnut, 210 
Cherry, 334 
Combination, 87 
Cress and Orange, 368 
Cucumber, 405 

and Radish. 332 

and Sweetbread, 176 
Egg and Cheese, 377 
Egg and Cress, 273 
Egg and Tomato Jelly, 171 
Fruit. 35 

Grape-Fruit, Date and Nut, 243 
Kidney Bean, 263 
Lettuce. 172. 331, 366 
Macaroni. 46 

Moulded Cucumber Jelly, 354 
Onion. 337 
Orange and Celery, 192 

and Cherry. 99 

and Malaga Grape, 225 

and Mint. 349 
Pineapple and banana, 274 

and Cheese. 397 
Porcupine, 60 
Potato, 364 

and Pea. 413 
Raspberry, Pineapple and Plum, 

386 



Salad, Russian, 346 

Salamagundi, 384 

String Bean, 381 

Tomato, Cucumber and Walnut, 
373 

Tomato Cup, 417 

Waldorf, 144 
Salad Dressing, 29, 62, 139 

French, 172, 178 

Lemon Cream, 99 

Mayonnaise. 177 
Salads, to Prepare Fruits for, 218 
Salamagundi Salad, 384 
Salmon, Boiled, 136 

Croquettes, 386 

Hollandaise, 245 

Jelly Sandwiches, 374 

Loaf, 202 

Moulded, 371 

Scalloped with Spaghetti, 164 

Timbales, 84 
Salted Almonds, Process I, 177 

Process II, 177 

Process III, 178 
Salted Triangles, 418 
Sandwiches, Cheese and Pimento, 
60 

Club, 385 

Devilled Ham, 350 

Egg, 404 

Salmon Jelly, 374 
Sardines, Creamed, 190 
Sauce, Apple, 56 

Cheese. 341 

Cocktail. 144 

Cranberry, 209 

Cream, 84 

Egg, 136 

Espagnole, 87 

Giblet, 209 

Hollandaise, SI 

Horseradish, 417 

Lemon, 407 

Lemon Cream, 99 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter, 28 

Mint, 84 

Mushroom, 276, 339 

Rhubarb, 344 

Tartar, 342 

Tartare, 351 

Tomato, 125 

Tongue, 297 

White. 26, 38 
Sauces. Pudding, Caramel, 400 

Chocolate, 19 

Cream, 167 

Custard, 366 

Foamy, 99 

Hard. 85 

Lemon, 241, 407 

Nutmeg. 234 

Orange, 79 

Sabyon. 163, 274 

Strawberry, 146, 343 

Vanilla. 95 
Sausage, 121. 232 
Sauted Bananas, 198 



INDEX 



465 



Sauted Brains, 259 

Sautelng, 102 

Savory meat, casserole, 365 

Rice, Baked, 368 

Rice Croquettes, 242 
Scalloped Dishes, 62 

Corn, 368 

Corn and Tomatoes, 132 

Fish and Macaroni, 271 

Ham, 382 

Macaroni and Tomatoes, 190 

Oysters, 175 

Potatoes, 130 
with Bacon, 334 

Pumpliin and Rice, 82 

Quail, 166 

Rice and Codfish, 44 

Rice and Tomatoes, 162 

Salmon and Spaghetti, 164 

Spaghetti, 233 

Tomatoes, 52 
School Luncheons, 187 
Scones, Cream, 232 

Scotch, 137 
Scotch Stew, 196 
Scrambled Eggs with Chopped 
Meat, 256 

with Tomatoes, 364 
Sealing Jellies, 325 

Moulds, 281 
Seating of Guests, 352, 414 
Serve, Amounts to, 249 
Serving, 41 

Formal Dinner, 416 

the Sick, 313 
Setting the Table, 10 
Shad. Planked, 302 
Shells, Patty, 430 
Shepherd's Pie, 227 
Sherbet, Cantaloupe, 407 
Sherbet. Currant, 418 

Lemon, 246 

Lemon Milk, 297 

Raspberry, 375 
Shirred Eggs, 340 
Shortcake, Banana, 133 

Peach, 47, 405 

Strawberry, 306 
Shortening, x 
Shoulder of Veal, 169 
Shredded Wheat with Bananas, 30 

with Peaches, 124 

with Strawberries, 348 

Lettuce, 280 
Shrimp Cocktail, 144 
Silver, Cleaning, 216 
Silver Cleaning Pan, 217 
Skirt Steak, Broiled, 25 
Slaw, Hot, 228, 400 
Sliced Beef, 36 

Cucumbers, 375 

Tomatoes, 32, 378 

Tomatoes and Cucumbers, 412 

Tongue, 274 

Veal, 21 
Slicing Bacon Thin, 218 
Smothered Chicken, 383 



Smothered Potatoes, 58 

Potatoes, 58 
Snaps, Ginger, 78 
Snow Balls, 145 

Pineapple, 263 
Soft Cooked Eggs, 11, 95 
Soft Custard, 139, 329 
Soiled Dish Retainer, 216 
Souffle, Cheese, 330 

Cherry, 194 

Corn, 27 

Hominy, 192 

Lentil, 264 

Meat, 196 

Onion, 306 

Prune, 23 

Rice, 259 

Spanish, 163 

Squash, 409 

Sweetbread, 230 

Tongue, 299 

Turnip, 145 
Soup, Asparagus, Cream of, 296 

Barley, Cream of, 43 

Bouillon, 89 
Tomato, 53 

Cabbage, Cream of, 169 

Celery, Cream of, 122 

Clear Tomato, 98 

Corn, Cream of, 142 

Danish Sweet, 81 

Iced Fruit, 412 

Noodle, 240 

Oyster, 97 

Pea, Cream of, 12 

Potato, Cream of, 77 

Rice, Cream of, 161 

Split Pea, 227 

Squash, Cream of, 198 

Tomato, Cream of, 25 

Vegetable, Cream of, 233 
Soups, Cream, 62 
Sour Cream Biscuit, 78 
Southern Spoon Bread, 401 
Spaghetti, Scalloped, 233 
Spanish Omelet, 327 

Souffle, 163 
Spareribs, Roasted, 332 
Spice Cakes, 239 
Spiced Currants. 362 
Spinach, 174, 396 

Balls, 94 
Split Pea Soup, 227 
Sponge Biscuit, 238 

Blackberry, 54 

Cake, 296, 339, 380 

Lemon, 139 

Pudding, 343 

Raspberry, 303 

Strawberry, 339 
Squash, Baked, 194 

Pie, 429 

Souffle, 409 

Soup, 198 

Summer, 407 

Timbale, 227 
Starch, v, xii 

Effect of Heat on, v 



466 



LESSONS IN COOKING 



St. David's Pudding, 231 
Steals, Almond, 256 

Broiled, 14 

Cuts of, 221 

Devilled, 328 

Flank, Braized, 140 

Stuffed, 46 

Planked, 243 

Round, a la Quin, 410 

Skirt, Broiled, 25 

Veal, Breaded, 347 
Steamed Apricot Pudding, 79 

Chocolate Pudding, 167 

Corn on Cob, 403 

Fig Pudding, 99 

Fruit Roll, 241 

Potatoes, 328 

Rice, 295 
Stew, Breakfast, 329 

Brown of Beef, 51 

Irish, 86 

Oyster, 97 

Rabbit, 132 

Scotch, 196 
Stewed Apricots, 83 

Celery, 234 

Chicken, 96 

Corn, 58 

Figs, 199 

Kidney, 206 

Potatoes, 231 

Prunes, 20, 269 

Tomatoes, 44 
Stock Adjuncts, 422 
Stoves and Fuels, 149-158 
Strawberry and Cherry Preserves, 
323 

Ice Cream, 350 

Sauce, 146, 343 

Shortcake, 306 

Sponge, 339 

Tarts 345 
Strawberries, 307. 311, 336 
String Beans, 328, 378 

Creamed, 192 
String Bean Salad, 381 
Stuffed Corn Beef, 399 

Flank Steak, 46 

Dates, 120 

Potatoes, 28 

Shoulder of Veal, 169 

Tomatoes, 300 
Stuffing, 46, 169 

Apple and Prune, 144 

Chestnut, 208 

Fish, 90 

Potato, 98 
Substitutions in Food, 389 

for Cornstarch, 38 
Succotash, 126 
Sugar, xii 

Effect of Heat on, v 
Sugar Cookies, 428 
Sulphides, Test for, 391 
Summer Squash, 407 
Sunshine Cake, 278 

Preserves, 320 



Supper, Chafing Dish, 245 

Surprise Orange, 82 
Surprise Roll, 402 
Swedish Rolls, 224 

Timbales, 268 
Sweetbread Croquettes, 353 

Souffle, 230 
Sweetbreads, 138 

Creamed on Toast, 143 
Sweetening, Iced Beverages, 37 
Sweet Pickled Peaches, 361 
Sweet Potato and Almond Cro- 
quettes, 93 
Sweet Potatoes, Baked, 88 

Candied, 98 

French Fried, 258 

Glazed 59 
Sweet Rice Croquettes, 126 

Soup, Danish, 81 
Syrup, Brown Sugar, 168 

Caramel. 80 

Mapleine. 165 

Mock Maple, 27 

Taffy. Brown, 120 

White, 119 
Tangerines, 229 
Tapioca. Apple, 203 

Cocoanut Cream, 192 

Peach, 35 

Pineapple, 169 
Tart. English Apple, 141 
Tartar Sauce. 342 
Tartare Sauce. 351 
Tartlets, Poor Man's, 264 
Tarts, 202 

Blueberry, 371 

Strawberry, 345 
Tea, 21 

Tea Cakes, "Lightning," 374 
Temperature of Oven, viii. 105 
Temperature and Time of Cook- 
ing, vi 
Tenderloin Pork, 82 
Test for Cotton Seed Oil, 393 

for Oleomargarine, 393 

for Sulphides. 391 
Thanksgiving Dinner, 98 
Thickening Agents, ix 
Timbale Cases, 176 
Timbale Frying, 176 
Timbales, Egg, 298 

Oatmeal, 48. 295 

Parsnip, 169 

Potato en Surprise, 50 

Pumpkin, 123 

Salmon, 84 

Squash, 227 

Swedish, 268 
Time Table of Cooking, viii, 105 
Toast, Buttered, 10 

Dry, 125. 142 

French, 20 

German, 304 

Milk, 48 

Milk. German Style, 261 

Tomato, 269 



INDEX 



467 



Tomato Bouillon, 53 

Clear Soup, 98 

Cheese Pudding, 89 

Cucumber and Walnut Salad, 
373 

Cup Salad, 417 

Marmalade, 325 

Pickle, Green, 431 

Preserves, 323 

Sauce, 125 

Soup, Cream of, 25 

Toast, 269 
Tomatoes, Baked, 381 

Canned, 360 

Catsup, 431 

Scalloped, 52 
•with Corn, 132 
with Macaroni, 190 
with rice, 162 

Sliced, 32, 378 

with Cucumbers, 412 

Stewed, 44 

Stuffed, 300 

with Cream Sauce, 309 

with Savory Custard, 206 
Tongue, Braized, 297 

on Toast, 223 

in Mince Meat, 250 

Sliced. 274 

Souffle, 299 
Torpedo Candies, 387 
Triangles, Salted, 418 
Trifle, Pineapple, 377 
Tripe, Fried in Batter, 134 
Trout, Baked, 342 
Trussing a Fowl, 101 

a Fish, 90 
Turbans, Halibut, 353 
Turkey, Roast, 99 
Turkish Pilaf, 224 
Turnip Souffle. 145 
Turnips, Creamed, 97 

German Fashion, 241 
in Jelly, 265 
Turnovers, Fig, 204 

Unripe Cucumber Pickles, 362 

Utensils, Canning, 357 

U. S. Government Bulletins, 438 

Cooking, 255 

Dishwashing. 74 

Preserving, 317 

Vanilla Ice Cream, 309 
Sauce, 95 
Wafers, Rolled, 277 



Veal Croquettes, 301 

Cutlets, 32 

Fricassee, 299 

Italian Style, 257 

Jellied, 205 

Kidney, 128 

Loaf, 234 

Mock Pigeon, 87 

Pot Pie. 126 
and Potato Rofl, 171 

Roast, 18 

Shoulder Stuffed, 169 

Sliced, 21 

Steak, Breaded, 347 
Vegetable Soup, Cream of. 233 
Vegetables, Canning of, 357-363 
Vegetables. Pickling. 361 
Virginia Waffles, 312 
Vitose, 340 

Wafers, 246 

Rolled Vanilla, 277 
Waffles, 131 

Oatmeal, 235 

Rice, 198 

Virginia, 312 
Waiting on Table, 41-42. 
Waldorf Salad, 145 
Washing Dishes, 73-76 
Washington Pie, 87 
Watermelon Rind Pickles, 363 
Wax Beans, 339 
Wedding Breakfast, 352 
Wedding Cake, 354 
Weights and Measures, ill 
Welsh Rarebit, 159 
Wheat Berries with Baked 

Apples, 263 
Wheat, Cracked, 141, 201 
Whipped Cream, 36 

with Cream Soup. 61 
White Cake, 33, 278, 304 
White Fish. Baked. 90 
White Sauce, 26, 38 
Whole Wheat Biscuits, 398 

Bread, 236 
Wilted Lettuce, 306 
Wood as Fuel, 149 
Workers' Lunch Box, The, 188 

Yorkshire Pudding, 143 
Yeast in Bread Making, 213 
Leavening by, ix 

Zante Muffins, 289 
Zwiebach, Creamed, 298 



LIBRARY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

COMPLETE HOME STUDY COURSE 

12 Volumes, 3,000 Pages, 1 ,000 Illustrations; Bound in Green and Gold; Price, $1 .50 per vol. 

FOOD SUBJECTS 



CHEMISTRY OF THE HOUSEHOLD, 

by Margaret E. Dodd, S. B., Mass. In- 
stitute of Technology. 

"A Day's Chemistry" — the unseen 
forces in the common things met in a 
day's work — water, air. Are, fuel; 
chemistry of food, of digestion, of 
cookery, of cleaning, of laundry, of 
Stains, of lighting; home tests, etc. 

PniNCIPLES or COOKERY, by Anna 
Barrows, Columbia University and 
Chautauqua School of Cookery. 

"A key to the cook books" — ana- 
lyzing and explaining the principles 
on which success rests, particular at- 
tention being paid to economy of time 
and materials, menus, making a fire- 
Icss cooker, "Directions for Wait- 
resses," "Free Hand Cooking," etc. 



FOOD AND DIETETICS, by Prof. 

Alice P. Norton, University of Chi- 
cago. 

Food economy, composition, nutri- 
tive value and digestibility of foods; 
how the body makes use of food; bal- 
anced ration; healthful diet for the 
sedentary, the aged, the children, and 
so on; food adulterations, "Food Val- 
ues," etc. 

HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT, by 
Prof. Bertha M. Terrill of University 
of Vermont. 

Household finance; economy in 
spending; division of income; house- 
hold accounting; system in house- 
work; the servant problem; buying 
supplies and furnishings; marketing; 
cuts of meat; season of vegetables; 
"Co-operative Housekeeping," etc. 



HEALTH SUBJECTS 



HOUSEHOLD BACTERIOLOGY, by 

S. Maria Elliott, Simmons College. 

The microscopic forms of life and 
their relation for good and evil to the 
household; how to make "dust gar- 
dens"; disease germs and how to 
avoid them; the protecting agencies 
of the body and how to keep them 
active; sanitation, etc. 

HOUSEHOLD HYGIENE, by S. Maria 
Elliott, Simmons College, Boston. 

The healthful home; the best situa- 
tion; the cellar; drainage, heating, 
lighting, disposal of wastes, plumbing 
tests, water supply; sanitary furnish- 
ings and care; hygienic housekeeping, 
etc. 



PERSONAL HYGIENE, by M. Le- 

Bosquet, S. B., Director of A. S. H. E. 

The human machine; running the 
machine; care of the machine — suffi- 
cient physiology to show the reasons 
for the directions for maintaining 
health; emphasis placed on do rather 
than don't; "Ethics of Health," "Use 
and Abuse of Drugs," etc. 
HOME CARE OF THE SICK, by Amy 
B. Pope, Presbyterian Hospital, New 
York City. 

Essentials of trained nursing; han- 
dling and caring for the patient; 
nursing in contagious diseases; ob- 
stetrics; food for the sick; emergen- 
cies; poisons and their antidotes; ban- 
daging; communicable diseases, etc. 



HOUSEHOLD ARTS 



THE HOUSE: ITS PLAN. DECORA- 
TION AND CARE, by Prof. Isabel 
Bevier, University of Illinois. 

The development of the modern 
home and the American house, plan- 
ning convenient houses, construction, 
floors, decoration and furnishing, sug- 
gestions for changes, repairs, house- 
hold conveniences, "The Cost of 
Building," etc. 

CHILDREN 

STUDY OF CHILD LIFE, by Marion 



TEXTILES AND CLOTHING, by Kate 
H. Watson, formerly Lewis Institute 
and University of Chicago. 

Fully illustrated descriptions of 
primitive and modern methods; tex- 
tile fibres and fabrics; plain and or- 
namental stitches; machine sewing; 
cutting and fitting; color and orna- 
ment; children's clothes; repairs, etc. 



CARE OF CHILDREN, by Dr. A. C. 

Cotton, Prof. Children's Diseases, Rush 
Medical College, University of Chi- 
cago. 

Care of the baby before and after 
birth; healthful clothing; develop- 
ment and growth; specific directions 
for feeding; food disorders; food for 
older children, treatment of children's 
ailments; hygiene of the child, etc. 



Foster Washburne, editor "Mothers' 
Magazine." 

Sensible and practical directions for 
the treatment of children; faults and 
their remedies; character building; 
home occupations; play; associates; 
studies and accomplishments; relig- 
ious training; the sex question, an- 
swers to questions, etc. 



BULLETINS: Free Hand Gjoking, lOcts.; Food Values, 10 cU.; The Up-To-Date Home, IScts. 



NO*? 25 1911 



