
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



MONOGRAPHS ON BIOCHEMISTRY 

EDITED BY 

R. H. A. PLIMMER, D.Sc. 

AND 

F. G. HOPKINS, M.A,, M.R, D.Sc, F.R.a 



Dj/tiz^djy Google 



MONOGRAPHS ON BIOCHEMISTRY 

BDITBD BT 

R. H. A. PLIMMER, D.Sc. 

AND 

F. G. HOPKINS, D.Sa, F.R.S. 
ROTAL 8va 

THE NATURE OF ENZYME ACTION. By 
W. M. Bayliss, D.Sc, F.R.S. Second Edition. 
38. 6d. net. 

THE CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION OF THE 
PROTEINS. By R. H. A. Plimmbr, D.Sc In 
2 Parts. Second Edition. Part I., 58. 6d. net. 
Part II., 

THE GENERAL CHARACTERS OF THE PRO- 
TEINS. By S. B. Schryvbr, Ph.D., D.Sc 
2t. 6d. net 

THE VEGETABLE PROTEINS. By Thomas B. 
OsBORNB, Ph.D. 38. 6d. net. 

THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND THE 
GLUCOSIDES. By E. Framkland Armstrong, 
D.Sc, Ph.D. Second Edition. 58. net. 

THE FATS. By J. B. Leathes, F.R.S., M.A., M.B., 
F.R.C.S. 48. net. 

ALCOHOLIC FERMENTATION. By A. Harden, 
Ph.D., D.Sc, F.R.S. 4s. net. 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF PROTEIN META- 
BOLISM. By E. P. Cathcart, M.D., D.Sc. 
48. 6d. net. 

SOIL CONDITIONS AND PLANT GROWTH. 
By E. J. Russell, D.Sc 58. net. 

OXIDATIONS AND REDUCTIONS IN THE 
ANIMAL BODY. By H. D. Dakin, D.Sc, F.LC. 
48. net. 

THE DEVELOPMENT AND PRESENT POSI- 
TION OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY. By 
F. GowLAND Hopkins, M.A., M.B., D.Sc, F.R.S. 

THE POLYSACCHARIDES. By Arthur R. Lino, 
F.LC. 

COLLOIDS. By W. B. Hardy, M.A., F.R.S. 

SIMPLE NATURAL BASES. By G. Barqer, D.Sc 

RESPIRATORY EXCHANGE IN ANIMALS. By 
A. Krooh, Ph.D. 

LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO., 

LONDON, NEW YORK, BOMBAY AND CALCUTTA. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE 



SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES 



AND 



THE GLUCOSIDES 



BY 



E. FRANKLAND ARMSTRONG, D.Sc, Pa-D. 

FBLLOW OF THB CITY AND GUILDS OF LONDON IN8TITUTB 




SECQND EDITION 



LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO. 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 

NEW YORK, BOMBAY AND CALCUTTA 

1912 



Digitized by 



Google 









-?, 



-2^ '^ ' • 






Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL PREFACE. 

The subject of Physiological Chemistry, or Biochemistry, is 
enlarging its borders to such an extent at the present time, 
that no single text-book upon the subject, without being 
cumbrous, can adequately deal with it as a whole, so as to 
give both a general and a detailed account of its present 
position. It is, moreover, difficult, in the case of the larger 
text-books, to keep abreast of so rapidly growing a science 
by means of new editions, and such volumes are therefore 
issued when much of their contents has become obsolete. 

For this reason, an attempt is being made to place this 
branch of science in a more accessible position by issuing 
a series of monographs, upon the various chapters of the 
subject, each independent of and yet depeodent . upon the 
others, so that from time to time, as new material and 
the demand therefor necessitate, a new' edition of each mono- 
graph can be issued without re-issuing the whole series. In 
this way, both the expenses of publication and the expense 
to the purchaser will be diminished, and by a moderate 
outlay it will be possible to obtain a full account of any 
particular subject as nearly current as possible. 

The editors of these monographs have kept two objects 
in view: firstly, that each author should be himself working 
at the subject with which he deals ; and, secondly, that a 
Bibliography^ as complete as possible, should be included, 
in order to avoid cross references, which are apt to be 
wrongly cited, and in order that each monograph may yield 
. full and independent information of the work which has been 
done upon the subject. 

It has been decided as a general scheme that the volumes 
first issued shall deal with the pure chemistry of physiological" 
products and with certain general aspects of the subject. 
Subsequent monographs will be devoted to such questions 
as the chemistry of special tissues and particular aspects of 
metabolism. So the series, if continued, will proceed from 
physiological chemistry to ^ what may be now more properly 
termed chemical physiology. This will depend upon the 
success which the first series achieves, and upon the divisions 
of the subject which may be of interest at the time. 

R. H. A. P. 
F. G. H. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PREFACE. 

Twenty-eight years ago the late Sir John Burdon Sanderson 
described one of the aims of Physiology as the acquirement 
of an exact knowledge of the chemical and physical processes 
of animal life. The recent history of physiological progress 
shows that investigations confined to the study of physical 
and chemical processes have been the most fruitful source of 
physiological advance, and it is principally the exact chemical 
study of the substances found in animals and plants which has 
enabled the physiologist to make this advance. 

The last decade has seen very material progress in our 
knowledge of the carbohydrates, more particularly with regard 
to their inner structure, biochemical properties, and the mechan- 
ism of their metabolism. In consequence, many problems 
of the greatest fascination for the biochemist have presented 
themselves for solution. 

This monograph aims at giving a summary of the present 
position of the chemistry of the carbohydrates. The reader is 
assumed to be already acquainted with the subject so far as 
it is dealt with in the ordinary text-books. The available 
information is, however, so widely scattered in the various 
scientific periodicals that it is impossible for any one approach- 
ing the subject to inform himself rapidly of what has been done. 
It is to meet such needs that this monograph is primarily 
intended. 

A bibliography is appended, which contains references, 
classified under appropriate headings, to most of the recent 
works on the subject and to the more important of the older 
papers. It makes no claim to be exhaustive but serves to 
indicate how much is at present being done in this field. 

E. F. A, 



Digitized by 



Google 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 

Our interest in the carbohydrates has been again aroused by 
the return of Emil Fischer to the subject He has announced 
his acceptance of the y-oxide formula of glucose which was 
used in the first edition of the monograph to explain all the 
properties of this carbohydrate. In continuation of his work 
on the acyl derivatives of glucose he has been able to show the 
probable composition of die tannins : he seems to think that 
compounds of this type may be widely distributed in animals 
and plants and may account for some of the peculiar properties 
of carbohydrates known to biologists. 

It has been found advisable to modify the arrangement of 
Chapter I. The treatment of the rarer carbohydrates has been 
extended and, wherever possible, their relation to enzymes has 
been demonstrated. The chapter on the glucosides has been 
considerably enlarged and a new chapter, dealing with the 
significance of the carbohydrates in plant physiology, has been 
added. The monograph should therefore appeal more generally 
to those interested in the subject from the botanical and agricul- 
tural sides. These problems are some of the most fascinating 
of those now under investigation and their study must add to 
our conceptions of vital change. 

It is a pleasant duty to express my thanks to Mr. F. W. 
Jackson, B.Sc, A.C.G.L, for his help in the revision of the 
proofs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

Introduction ---- i 

I. Glucose 3 

II. The Chemical Properties of Glucose . - - . 28 

III. The Hexoses and Pentoses 46 

IV. The Disaccharides - - - 59 

V. The Relation Between Configuration and Properties - 72 

VI. Hydrolysis and Synthesis 84 

VII. The Natural and Synthetical Glucosides - - - 104 
VIII. The Function of Carbohydrates and Glucosides in 

Plants 125 

Bibliography - -135 

Index 169 



Digitized by 



Google 



INTRODUCTION. 

The carbohydrates, together with the proteins, rank first in importance 
among organic compounds on account of the part they play, both in 
plants and animals, as structural elements and in the maintenance of 
the functional activity of the organism. 

The interest attaching to the group may be said to centre around 
glucose, this carbohydrate being the first to arise in the plant and the 
unit group from which substances such as cane sugar, maltose, starch 
and cellulose are derived ; it is also of primary importance in animal 
metabolism, as the main bulk of the carbohydrate in our food materials 
enters into circulation in the form of glucose. 

Under natural conditions the higher carbohydrates are resolved into 
the simpler by the hydrolytic agency of enzymes, but these also exer- 
cise synthetic functions; the simpler carbohydrates are further resolved 
by processes which are undoubtedly akin to that of ordinary alcoholic 
fermentation. The carbohydrates are, therefore, of primary importance 
as furnishing material for the study of the processes of digestion and 
assimilation. 

The carbohydrates are all remarkable on account of their optical 
characters ; it is possible to correlate these with their structure. Of the 
large number of possible isomeric forms of the gluco4iexose C^HijOg, 
sixteen in all, of which glucose is one, only four are met with in 
Nature, although fourteen have already been prepared by artificial 
means ; this natural limitation of the number produced in the plant and 
utilised by it and by the animal is a fact of great significance and clear 
proof of the manifestation of a selective process at some period in the 
evolution of life. The elucidation of these peculiarities invests the in- 
quiry into the nature and functions of the carbohydrates with particular 
interest and significance. 

The simple carbohydrates are all of the empirical composition cor- 
responding with the formula CHjO, the most important being those 
containing five or six atoms of carbon. The members of the sugar 
group are usually distinguished bylrtam.es having the suffix ose. 

The simplest carbohydrate, CHjO, formaldehyde or formal, is in 

I 



Digitized by 



Google 



2 '■' •."••••• CA&BOHYDRATES 

all probability the first product of vital activity in the plant, the carbon 
dioxide absorbed from the air being converted into this substance by 
the combined influence of sunlight and chlorophyll. The conversion 
of formaldehyde into glucose has been accomplished in the laboratory, 
but the transformation takes place in such a way that a variety of pro- 
ducts is obtained which are optically inactive ; there is reason to sup- 
pose that but the single substance dextro-glucose is formed in the plant 
and that this is almost immediately converted into starch ; in other 
words, the vital process is in some way a directed change. The record 
of the s)aithetic production of glucose and of the discovery of methods 
of producing the isomeric hexoses, as well as of determining the structure 
of the several isomerides, is one of the most fascinating chapters in the 
history of modem organic chemistry. 

It would be impossible within the limits of a brief monograph to 
deal at length with the carbohydrates generally. In the following ac- 
count, glucose will be taken as a typical sugar, and its properties and 
interrelationships will be considered more particularly with reference 
to their biochemical importance. The disaccharides and glucosides 
will be dealt with in a similar manner. Those who desire fuller in- 
formation should consult the comprehensive works compiled by Lipp- 
mann and by Maquenne. 

In discussing the various problems associated with the carbohydrates, 
the writer will strive to indicate the alternative views which have been 
advanced. He will, however, endeavour to develop the subject as far 
as possible as a logical whole, rather than leave the reader undecided 
at every turn. Such a method of treatment is more likely to stimulate 
inquiry by giving a picture of the present attitude of workers towards 
the various problems which the carbohydrates present 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER I. 

GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE). 

It has been customary to speak of this sugar as grape sugar to 
distinguish it from cane sugar and on account of its occurrence in the 
juice of the grape and of other ripening fruits in association with fructose 
(laevulose). The two hexoses are probably derived from pre-existent 
cane sugar, as the three sugars are nearly always found together and as 
cane sugar is easily resolved into glucose and fructose by hydrolysis : — 

C^HjAi + H,0 = C,H,,Oe + C^H^O, 
Cane Sugar. Glucose. Fructose. 

Glucose is also formed from other more complex sugars when these 
are broken down by hydrolysis with the assistance of the appropriate 
enzymes or of acids — ^for example, from milk sugar or lactose, malt 
sugar or maltose, starch and cellulose. It is easily prepared from 
starch by the action of diluted sulphuric acid and is therefore to be 
purchased at small cost. It separates from an aqueous solution with 
a molecule of water of crystallisation, but this is held only loosely, 
as the anhydrous substance may be crystallised from dilute alcohol. 
Unlike cane sugar, it never separates in well-defined clear crystals from 
either water or alcohol, but is usually met with as crystalline powder. 

Constitution. ^ 

Glucose is represented by the molecular formula C^Hi^Og. Five 
of the six atoms of oxygen are to be regarded as present in the 
alcoholic form, as hydroxyl (OH) ; the sixth under certain conditions 
manifests aldehydic functions. Thus, when acted upon by metallic 
hydroxides, glucose forms compounds which resemble the "alco- 
holates " ; and it is converted by acids, add anhydrides and chlorides, 
into ethereal salts or esters such as the following : — 

CeK,0(N0,)5 C^H^OiO . CO . CHJ^ 0,11,0(0 . CO . CeHJ^ 

Glucose pentanitrate. Glucose pentacetate. Glucose pentabenzoate. 



Digitized by 



Google 



4 CARBOHYDRATES 

On reduction, it takes up two atoms of hydrogen and is converted 

(into a hexahydric alco hol ; on oxidation it yields the monobasic acid, 
gluconic acid, CfiHg(0H)5 . CO . OH ; when heated with a concentrated 
solution of hydrogen iodide, it loses the whole of its oxygen and is 
converted into an iodohexane, CgHjjI, which itself is a derivative of 
normal hexane, CHj . CHj . CHj . CHg . CH^ . CH,. 

On account of the stability of glucose, it is to be assumed that each 
hydroxyl group is associated with a different carbon atom ; as glucose 
is a derivative of normal hexane, the constitutional formula of the 
aldehydic form may be written in the following manner : — 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO 

But it was long a matter of remark that glucose, as a rule, is far 
less active than was to be expected, assuming it to be an hydroxyalde- 
hyde. The difficulty was removed when ToUens, in 1883, proposed to 
represent it by a formula in which four of the carbon atoms are included 
in a ring, together with a single oxygen atom. 

A carbon atom which has four different groups attached to it is 
known as asymmetric. These groups can obviously be written in 
order either clockwise : — 



d h 

\ 1/ 



or counter clockwise : — 






Two different forms of the substance are therefore possible, related 
as object to image, and they are termed stereoisomerides. The formula 
of glucose as written above contains four such . asymmetric carbon 
atoms ; accordingly the rearrangement of the groups about any one of 
these will give rise 'to an isomeride. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 5 

If the regular tetrahedron be adopted as the model of the carbon 
atom and it be supposed that the four affinities are directed towards 
its four solid angles from the centre of a sphere within which the tetra- 
hedron is inscribed, the direction of the affinities is 1 such (109** 24') that, 
on uniting four such tetrahedra together and interposing as representa- 
tive of the oxygen atom a ball with two affinities arranged in about the 
same directions as the two carbon affinities, a closed system or ring is 
formed almost naturally, in which there is no strain, the internal angles 
being practically those in a r^;ular pentagon, thus : — 



H H 

Hv /OH H0\ 




CH . CH(0H) . CH,(0H) 



This symbol has been very widely adopted, as it is in general 
accordance with the interactions of glucose. Fischer has stated re- 
cently his acceptance of it in preference to the. aldehyde formula. It 
is the representation in a plane surface of a solid model of glucose made 
by combining tetrahedra in the conventional manner. The reader is 
advised strongly to construct such a model himself to enable him to 
follow the argument developed in this chapter. The behaviour of 
glucose as an aldehyde is accounted for if it be assumed that, when the 
ring is ruptured by hydrolysis, the closed-chain form passes into the 
aldehydic form in the following manner : — 

H OHH OH H OHH OH 



Hv / \ +Hfi -* tl\ / \ 

\C o^ CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) *- >c i 

Closed ring. Aldehydrol. 



v/ 



H OH H OH 




\ 



•f H^ 
CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) 



Hd HO 

Aldefaydrd. Aldehyde. 



/ 



Digitized by 



Google 



6 CARBOHYDRATES 

This action being reversible, it is to be supposed that when an 
agent such as phenylhydrazine,^ which will act upon aldehyde, is added 
to the aqueous solution, the small amount of aldehydrol present is 
attacked and removed ; the equilibrium is thereby disturbed, but is 
rapidly restored by the formation of a fresh quantity of the aldehydrol, 
which in turn disappears but only to have its place taken by a further 
quantity. Ultimately the whole becomes converted into the aldehydic 
derivative. 

On reference to the closed-chain formula of glucose, it will be seen 
that the potentially aldehydic carbon atom (printed in clarendon type), 
as well as the three other carbon atoms in the ring, and also the atom 
which is immediately contiguous to the ring on the right-hand side 
of the formula (page 5), are all asymmetric, in the sense that each of 
them is associated with four different radicles, or in other words a fifth 
asymmetric carbon atom has arisen in this formula. Consequently the 
closed-^hain form of glucose may be written in either of two ways, de- 
pending on the arrangement of the groups around this atom, printed 
here in clarendon, thus : — 

HO C H 

hcoh\ 



HOCH 
HCi 



1/ 



i. 



!0H 




:H|0H 

o-Glucose. 

The two methyl glucosides are to be regarded as the methyl deriva- 
tives of these two stereoisomeric forms of glucose. 

1 See Chapter II. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 



The Methyl Glucosides. 

In considering the structure of glucose, the compounds which 
deserve attention in the first place are the two isomeric methyl gluco- 
sides (a ind )8), which are formed by the interaction- of glucose and 
methylic alcohol under the influence of hydrogen chloride. These 
compounds are the prototypes of the natural glucosides. They were 
discovered by Emil Fischer in 1893. He prepared them by dis- 
solving glucose in cold methylic alcohol, saturated with dry hydrogen 
chloride gas. After several hours, when it had lost all cupric reducing 
power, the mixture was neutralised with lead carbonate. Crystals of 
the a-compound were obtained on concentrating the solution; the 
/8-compound was isolated later from the mother liquor, and was first 
obtained crystalline by Van Ekenstein. 

The methyl glucosides differ considerably from glucose, more par- 1 1 
ticularly in never behaving as aldehydes ; and their rotatory power in| • 
solution is the same in a freshly-prepared solution as it is in one which 
has been kept for some time, which is not the case with glucose. They 
are undoubtedly formed by the introduction of methyl, in place of an 
atom of hydrogen, in the hydroxyl group attached to the carbon atom 
which exercises aldehydic functions in the open-chain form of glucose. 
It is to be noted that the introduction of methyl in this position has 
the effect of rendering the ring far more stable than it is in glucose, as 
it is to be supposed that compounds such as phenylhydrazine, and 
oxidising agents such as Fehling's solution, are « without action because i.] 
the glucosides do not undergo hydrolysis in solution in the way that If 
glucose does. 

The two glucosides are distinguished by the prefixes a and ^8, their 
properties being as follows : — 

Melting-point Rotatory Power. 
a-Methyl glucoside .... 165'' + 157** 

/3-Methyl glucoside . . . . 104° - 33° 

They are both colourless crystalline substances, the a-isomeride 
crystallising usually in long needles, the yS-isomeride in rectangular 
prisms* 

When hydrolysed by acids they yield methyl alcohol and glucose. 
At ordinary temperatures hydrolysis, even by moderately strong mineral 
acids, proceeds but slowly ; and if it be desired to study the course of 
hydrolysis it is advisable to work at elevated temperatures, say 70** to 



Digitized by 



Google 



8 CARBOHYDRATES 

80° C. As in other chemical reactions, the hydrolytic power of acids 
towards glucosides increases with a rise in temperature. A convenient 
method of experimenting consists in mixing acid and glucoside in a 
closed flask immersed in a thermostat so as to maintain the required 
temperature. Samples of the liquid are withdrawn at stated intervals 
of time, rapidly cooled by immersion in ice water to check hydrolysis, 
and the amount of glucose formed estimated either gravimetrically or 
with the polarimeter. To prevent evaporation it is advisable to add 
a little paraffin wax to the mixture of glucoside and acid. Measure- 
ments made in this way show that a definite fraction of the glucoside 
present is hydrolysed in each unit of time, the course of change follow- 
ing what is known as the logarithmic curve. The yS-compound is at- 
tacked more rapidly than the a. This point will be referred to again 
in Chapter VI. 

The methyl glucosides are also hydrolysed by enzymes, but both 

Uisomerides are not hydrolysed by the same enzyme. In fact, the actio n 

|iof enzymes towards the gl ucosides is specific^jjLodjgach^fJQjijQLrS^^ 

its owfT parti cular enzy me : g-mediyl glucoside is_ hydrolysed by 

maltase ; )8-methyl glucoside by emulsin. The enzymes act at ordin- 

* ary~teiSpei5tufS,^preferably not above 37" C, and are far more active 

as hydrolytic agents than acids. 

Returning to the preparation of the glucosides just described 
it will be noted that both forms are produced simultaneously, the a- 
isomeride predominating. When solid anhydrous glucose (a-glucose) 
is dissolved in dry methyl alcohol containing dry hydrogen chloride 
the first change is its rapid conversion into a mixture of a- and )8- 
glucose in nearly equal parts. Each of these then undergoes etherifi- 
cation, the primary result being a mixture of a- and ^-methyl gluco- 
sides, in which the latter is slightly in excess. On standing, slow 
conversion of the yS-methyl glucoside into the more stable a-isomeride 
takes place. The equilibrated mixture of the glucosides contains 77 
per cent, of the a- and 23 per cent, of the )8-isomeride. If, however, 
the solution be neutralised as soon as etherification is complete and 
before the isomeric changes take place, and the solvent be removed, a 
mixture of the two glucosides in approximately equal quantities is ob- 
tained. These may be separated by fractional crystallisation. 

Such a process is somewhat tedious when yS-methyl glucoside is the 

object of the preparation, and it is more convenient to make use of 

biological methods. On treatment with yeast, which contains the 

I enzyme maltase, the a-methyl glucoside is hydrolysed to glucose and 

|\ methyl alcohol, and the glucose is removed by fermentation, so that 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 9 

yS-methyl glucoside, which is not attacked by yeast, alone remains, and 
can be isolated and purified. 

When, on the other hand, a-methyl glucoside is desired, the action 
of the acid is allowed to continue until equilibrium is attained, and, 
after crystallisation of some quantity of the a-methyl glucoside, the ] 
mother liquors are again heated with a little acid. This has the effect ' 
of causing the )8-glucoside present to be converted into a-glucoside 
until equilibrium is again reached, when 77 per cent of the total solid 
present is a-glucoside, and in consequence a further quantity of c^glu- 
coside crystallises on removal of the solvent. 

Fischer employs an alternative method, which consists in heating 
the alcoholic glucose solution with very little acid in an autoclave. It 
is then not necessary to neutralise before crystallisation of the a-gluco- 
side. 

Maquenne has prepared )8-methyl glucoside by the action of methyl 
sulphate and sodium hydroxide on glucose dissolved in water. It is 
stated that the yS-isomeride alone is formed under these conditions, 
but the quantity obtained is not large. 

As already stated, the two methyl glucosides are regarded as stereo- 
isomeric 7-oxides,^ and have the following structural formulae : — 



:Hs0— CH 

HCOH \ 

Hoin V 

\ / 

HC/ 

HOCH 

CH,0H 
a-Methyl gluooside. 


HC-OCH3 

hcohX 

HOCH / 

HCOH 

1 


CH,0H 
i8-Methyl gluooside. 



1 It is a characteristic property of 7-hydroxyacids to lose water very readily, forming 
ring compounds containing four atoms of carbon and one of oxygen : these are termed 
7-lactones. Thus — 

\ '. 

CH,(0H) . CH, . CHa . CO,H = H,0 + CH, . CH, . CH, . CO 
7-Hydroxybutyric acid. 7-Butyrolactone. 

Similar four carbon-oxygen ring compounds when derived from 7-hydroxy compounds other 
than acids are named 7-oxides. The ring is termed a pentaphane ring. 



Digitized by 



Google 



lo CARBOHYDRATES 



The More Important Dcrhrvtrpes of GlncoBe. 

The experimental work of the last ten years has shown that most of 
the derivatives of glucose likewise exist in two forms diflFering in 
physical properties, more particularly crystalline form, optical rotatory 
power and melting-point. The chemical behaviour of all these sub- 
stances is such that it must be assumed that the aldehydic function has 
disappeared giving rise to the closed-ring structure already formulated. 

Glucose Pmtacetates, — Under proper experimental conditions, all 
five hydroxyl groups in glucose become acetylated, the a- or ^-pent- 
acetate predominating in the product according to the method adopted. 
As these compounds form the starting-point for a number of syntheses, 
it is important to understand fully the methods of preparing them. 

They have the following formulae : — 

AcO— CH HC— OAc 

HCOAc \ HCOAc 




>CH 




AcO< 

[Ac - C.H,0] 

HC H£ 

HC . OAc HC . OAc 

CH, . OAc CH, . OAc 

ft-Gliioose pentacetate. jB-Glucose pentaceUte. 

To obtain the a-pentacetate it is necessary to acetylate glucose 
instantly before isomeric change can take place, since the presence of 
acid greatly accelerates the isomeric change from a- to ^-glucose. This 
is done by addir^ anhydrous a-glucose to boiling acetic anhydride con- 
taining a small quantity of zinc chloride as catalyst. A violent action 
ensues, and the sugar passes into solution. The product is poured into 
water, which is changed from time to time to remove the acetic acid ; 
finally the a-glucose pentacetate solidifies. The crude product contains 
both isomerides : it is purified by crystallisation from alcohol. The a- 
pentacetate predominates also when glucose is acetylated in pyridine 
solution at o^ 

To obtain the )8-pentacetate, glucose is mixed with acetic anhydride 
and sodium acetate, and heated for some time at the temperature of 
the water bath. As the change from a- to )8-glucose in this case pre- 
cedes acetylation, )8-glucose pentacetate predominates in the final 
product, and may be separated by fractional crystallisation. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) ii 

The pentacetates are colourless crystalline compounds, insoluble in 
water and readily hydrolysed by alkaline hydroxides. When heated 
with acetic anhydride either form is partially converted into the other : 
Jungius has shown that this change may also be effected by adding 
a small amount of sulphur trioxide to a solution of the acetate in 
chloroform. 

Acetochloro, Acetonitro Glucoses. — In either isomeride, one of the 
acetyl groups— that attached to the terminal carbon atom (in clarendon 
type) linked to the pentaphane oxygen atom — is far more active than 
the rest When subjected to the action of anhydrous liquid hydro- 
gen bromide or hydrogen chloride in sealed tubes at the ordinary 
temperature, this acetyl group alone is replaced by halogen. In this 
way o-pentacetyl glucose gives a-acetochloro glucose, )8-pentacetyl 
glucose the corresponding yS-acetochloro glucose — both beautifully 
crystalline colourless substances. Nitric acid acts in a similar manner 
causing the formation of crystalline a- and yS-acetonitro glucoses : — 
HC . NO3 HC . OAc HCCl 

HC.OAc\ HC.Oa\ HC.OAc^ 

I )0 (HNO3) I >0 (HCl) I 

AcO.CH / "^ AcO.CH / ^ AcO.CH 

HC . OAc h6 .OAc HC . OAc 

CH, . OAc CHj . OAc CH, . OAc 

/3 Acetonitro glucose. /B-Olucose penucetate. /S-Acetochloro glucose. 

Physical measurements also indicate that one of the acetyl groups 
is more easily detached than the others. This is proved by the fact 
that the rate at which the acetyl groups are removed by hydrolysis 
with alkali from the glucose pentacetates decreases as change pro- 
ceeds ; yet the tetra-acetyl methyl glucosides, which contain four simi- 
larly placed acetyl groups but lack the one contiguous to the pentaphane 
oxygen, are hydrolysed by alkali at a rate which is constant throughout 
the whole change. 

The chloro-, bromo- and nitro- groups are even more reactive than 
the acetyl group, and are easily replaced — for example, by methoxyl 
— on shaking a solution of the compound in anhydrous methyl alcohol 
with silver carbonate. The isomeric tetra-acetyl methyl glucosides 
thus obtained are converted, when hydrolysed by an alkali^ into the 
corresponding isomeric methyl glucosides. These syntheses make it 
possible to pass from )8-glucose to )8-methyl glucoside through a series 
of )8-compounds and to correlate all these compounds with iS-glucose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



I 2 CARBOHYDRATES 

Acetochloro and acetobromo glucose have been rendered easily 
accessible by a more convenient method of preparation : )8-glucose 
pentacetate, dissolved in acetic acid, is treated with a saturated solution 
of the hydrogen halide in glacial acetic acid. Acetoiodo glucose has 
also been prepared. In all cases, by this method only the )8-deriva- 
tives are obtained. Apparently rearrangement takes place very readily 
during the preparation of a-acetochloro glucose by means of anhydrous 
hydrogen chloride and the a-derivatives are not always obtainable ; 
indeed Fischer's most recent investigation has cast some doubt on 
their existence. 

When the action of anhydrous hydrogen bromide on glucose 
pentacetate is prolonged dibromo-triacetyl glucose is obtained. One of 
the bromine atoms can be replaced by methoxyl with the formation 
of triacetyl methyl glucoside bromohydrin. This compound has 
served as the starting-point for the preparation of a new isomeride of 
glucosamine (p. 43). When it is heated with barium hydroxide 
hydrogen bromide is eliminated, and anhydromethyl glucoside, C^HuOg, 
is formed ; this when hydrolysed by dilute acids yields anhydroglucose, 
a well-characterised crystalline substance. It forms a phenylhydrazone 
and phenylosazone, both containing one molecule of water less than 
the corresponding glucose compounds. On the assumption of a 7-oxide 
ring structure for the new anhydride, anhydro glucose will have the 
attached formula. This is fully in harmony with the deductions 



possible from the solid model of glucose. The €-carbon being free to 
rotate can take up the position indicated, which is favourable for the 
formation of a 7-oxide ring, linking it with the )8-carbon atom 
through oxygen. The second bromine atom in triacetyl-dibromo 
glucose IS presumably in the ^S-position, the only possible alternative 
being the e-position. 

Anhydromenthol glucoside has been obtained in a similar manner 
to anhydromethyl glucoside ; it is of interest that emulsin is without 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 13 

action on either compound, though it readily hydrolyses the normal 
glucosides. 

When )8-acetobromoglucose is diaken in ethereal solution with 
silver carbonate and a little water tetra-acetyl glucose is obtained ; 
this, like tetra-methyl glucose, exhibits mutarotation and exists in 
two forms. Acetobromo glucose also interacts with pyridine, forming 
tetra-acetyl glucose pyridinium bromide. 

Methyl Glucoses, — The properties of the hydroxyl groups in 
glucose can be masked by their replacement by acetyl or benzoyl 
groups. The ethers so formed crystallise well, but the acid groups 
render these compounds resistant to the action of enzymes. The 1 
substitution of methoxyl for hydroxyl has a less disturbing influence ; i 
indeed methylation has little effect on the characteristic chemical re- I 
actions of reducing sugars except in increasing stability. The reducing 1 
sugars themselves cannot be directly methylated by any of the ordinary 
methods ; but, as Purdie and Irvine have shown, it is possible to 
methylate the methyl glucosides by exhaustive treatment with methyl 
iodide and silver oxide. The products are purified by distillation in 
vacuum and subsequently obtained crystalline. 

The isomeric a- and )8-pentamethyl glucoses {e^,, tetramethyl- 
methyl glucosides), when hydrolysed by acids, are converted into tetra- 
methyl glucoses : — 

HOC-;^ 

HCOMeVv 

McOCH 

-#► HC" 

I 
HCOMe HCOMe 

CH,OMe CH^Me 

flpPentamethyl glucose. a-Tetramethyl glucose. 

Both compounds yield finally the same tetramethyl glucose of 
constant rotatory power, but initially a- and )8-tetramethyl glucoses are 
obtained from them, which exhibit mutarotation and slowly change in 
solution into the equilibrated mixture. Tetramethyl glucose is con- 
verted by Fischer's method of etherification into a mixture of a- and 
yS-tetramethyl-methyl glucosides. 

Tetramethyl glucose is not fermentable, but tetramethyl )8-methyl 
glucoside is hydrolysed by emulsin, a fact which indicates that the 
introduction of the methyl groups into a glucoside does not put the 
resulting compounds out of harmony with enzymes. 




^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 CARBOHYDRATES 

A number of other sugars have been alkylated in like manner. 

The partially methylated derivatives of the sugar gfroup possess a 
special interest, as their study may be expected to afford a clue to 
many of the vexed questions in carbohydrate chemistry. It is only 
recently that definite mono-, di- and trimethylated hexoses have been 
prepared by Irvine, and their investigation is not yet completed. The 
methods employed in tlieir preparation consist in subjecting to methyla- 
tion by the silver iodide method hexose derivatives in which certain 
of the hydroxyl groups are shielded from attack. The partially 
methylated glucoses are obtained on submitting these compounds to 
hydrolysis. 

Thus, glucose diacetone forms only a monomethyl derivative, from 
which on hydrolysis €- (or S)-monomethyl glucose 

CH,(OMe) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH(OH)]a . CH(OH) 

! o— ' 

is obtained. 

It is of interest that the acetone groups are removed simultaneously 
and at the same rate. Both a and fi forms of the monomethyl glucose 
have been obtained crystalline. The new compound forms a mono- 
methyl glucosazone, identical with that obtained from S-monomethyl 
fructose in which the methoxyl group has been proved to occupy the 
terminal position, since it. yields dihydroxymethoxybutyric acid on 
oxidation which is incapable of forming a lactone. To prepare di- 
methyl glucose, benzylidine a-methyl glucoside is methylated and the 
product hydrolysed, first the benzylidene group and then the glucoside 
group being eliminated. Both a and yS isomerides of the compound 
have been prepared ; it has the constitution : — 

CHj(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . (OMe)], . CH(OH) 

I o — — — I 

When methyl glucoside is methylated in methyl alcoholic solution a 
trimethyl glucose methyl glucoside is the main product from which 
2:3:5 trimethyl glucose is obtained on hydrolysis ; on alkylation of 
glucose monoacetone a trimethyl derivative is formed which gives 
3:5:6 trimethyl glucose : — 

CH8(0Me) . CH(OMe) . CH . CH(OMe) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) 

I o ^1 

Probably two forms of this carbohydrate exist, but they have been 
obtained so far only in the equilibrated mixture, the optical behaviour 
of which appears to be abnormal and requires investigation. 

AnilideSy Hydrazones, Oxintes. — The interactions involved in the 
formation of anilides, hydrazones- and oximes of glucose are most 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 15 

simply explained, on the assumption that the sugar is participating in 
a typical aldehyde reaction. None the less the occurrence of more 
than one form of all these derivatives forces the adoption of the closed- 
ring formula in such cases. Skraup early showed that a second phenyl- 
hydrazone of glucose could be isolated, isomeric with that described 
originally by Fischer, Isomeric benzyl phenylhydrazones have also 
been obtained The rotatory power of hydrazones changes in solution. 
It would go too far to discuss the nature of the isomerism here, nor is 
it yet satisfactorily established, but it may be pointed out that glucose 
phenylhydrazone may be formulated in syn- and anti-forms of the 
true aldehydic derivative, or as a- and )8-hydrazides of 7-oxide structure, 
nor does this exhaust the possible isomerides. 

Irvine and Moodie have shown in the case of tetramethyl glucose 
that both the oximes and anilides possess the 7-oxide ring in the 
hexose residue, and are thus to be r^arded as derived from the a- or 
/8-form of glucose, and not from an aldehydic isomeride. Their con- 
clusions may reasonably be extended to the oximes and anilides of 
glucose, the latter of which Irvine and Gilmour have shown to exist in 
two modifications. The same authors failed to alkylate glucose phenyl 
hydrazone, or tetramethyl glucose phenylhydrazone, and consider it 
still an open question whether these derivatives belong to the 7-oxide 
type. 

The properties of a number of these derivatives are summarised in 
the following table : — 

TABLE I. 



GlaooM Derivative. 


a-Series. 


^Series. 


M^pt. 


Wd. 


M..pt. 


Wd. 


Penta-acetate .... 
Acetochloro .... 
Acetobromo .... 
Acetonitro .... 
Tetra-acetylmethyl . . . 
Methyl glucoBide . 


iia« 
63** (?) 
79' (? 

100^ 
165* 


+ 100* 

+ 137° 
+ 157' 


1500 

io5» 
I04« 


+ 3' 
+ i65« 
+ 198' 
+ 149' 

- ^3^ 

- 33' 



Digitized by 



Google 



i6 CARBOHYDRATES 



Mutarotation— The Isomeric Forms of Glucose. 

The hypothesis that there are two stereoisomeric forms of glucose^ 
is the only one hitherto proposed which affords a satisfactory explana* 
tion of a peculiar property, characteristic of glucose and other sugars 
manifesting aldehydic functions, now known as mutarotation or ntulti-- 
rotation (but formerly termed birotation) ; namely, the optical rotatory 
power of the freshly dissolved substance changes gradually, sometimes 
increasing, but more usually falling, until a constant value is reached. 
The term birotation was introduced because the rotatory power of glu- 
cose in solution is about twice as great when it is freshly dissolved as 
that which it eventually assumes. The change takes place very slowly 
when highly purified materials are used, but almost immediately if a 
small quantity of alkali be added. The phenomenon was first ob- 
served by Dubrunfaut in 1846 and ascribed by him to purely ph}rsical 
causes. The subject has of recent years caused a good deal of con- 
troversy, and it is simplest to deal with the views that have been 
advanced in historical sequence. 

E. Fischer, in 1890, noticed that the optical rotatory power of 
certain lactones closely related to the sugars underwent change in 
solution as the lactone became hydrolysed to the corresponding acid. 
He therefore ascribed the change which occurs with glucose to a like 
addition of a water molecule, and assumed that the glucose (aldehyde) 
underwent conversion into a heptahydric alcohol (aldehydrol) of lower 
rotatory power : — 

CHO CHtOH), ^ 

\ CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CH(OH) + H,0 ^ iH(OH) 

i fcH(OH) LhCOH) 

CH(OH) i:H(OH) 

iH,(OH) iH,(OH) 

Glucose (aldehyde). Alcohol (aldehydrol). 

The subject assumed a new aspect when it was shown by Tanret, 
in 1896, that besides the anhydrous and hydrated forms of glucose 
other isomeric anhydrous modifications could be obtained He 
described an a-glucose ([ajo+iio"), the initial rotatory power of 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 17 

which fell gradually to [«]» + S^'S** ; further, a /8-gIucose* of low initial 
rotatory power ([a]D+ 19*)> increasing to [a]D + 52*5* in solution ; and, 
lastly, a 7-glucose ([a]D+ 52-5*) of unalterable rotatory power in solu- 
tion. The three supposed isomerides were isolated by allowing glucose 
solutions to crystallise under different conditions — a-glucose separated 
at ordinary temperatures from solutions in 70 per cent, alcohol, and 
jS-glucose from aqueous solutions at temperatures above 98*" C. ; 
7-glucose was obtained by pr^ipitating a concentrated aqueous 
solution of glucose with alcohol, i^glucose hydrate crystallises from 
aqueous solutions at the ordinary temperature. When powdered 
anhydrous glucose is added to water, it immediately undergoes hy- 
dration before passing into solution. 

The behaviour of these isomeric forms does not fit in with the 
theory that the mutarotation is due to the conversion of an aldehyde 
into an aldehydrol ; moreover, the increase in rotatory power from 
j3- to 7-glucose has also to be explained. 

Tanret, Lippmann and others suggested that some forms of glucose 
have a closed-^ring structure, as proposed by Tollens, and tihat in solu- 
tion these are completely converted into the isomeric aldehyde. 

A more fruitful suggestion was made by Simon who drew atten* 
tion to the optical behaviour of a- and /9-glucose in relation to that 
of the isomeric methyl glucosides of \\*ich the structure was known : — 

[a]D Wo 

a- Methyl gluoodde + 157^ a-Gluoose + 105® * 

iS-Methyl glucoside - 33" i3-Gluco8e+ 22® 

He suggested that the a- and )3-glucoses are homologues of the a- and 

j8-methyl glucosides, and that both contain a closed oxygenated ring. 

Direct proof of the glucosidic structure of a- and )8-glucose was 

afforded by their preparation froip the corresponding glucosides effected 

by the writer. Both glucosides are resolved into methyl alcohol and 

glucose by appropriate enzymes, and as the enzymes condition the 

hydrolysis more quickly than the glucose which is formed can undergo 

isomeric change, it is possible to determine the nature of the sugar 

Which is formed initially. In practice, this is done by preparing a 

clear solution of glucoside and enzyme, allowing hydrolysis to proceed 

for a short time and then observing the optical rotatory power of the 

solution before and after the addition of a drop of ammonia, which 

hastens the rate of the isomeric change, and therefore has the effect 

1 Tanret actually termed the substance represented above as /S-glucose ^-glucose and 
designated ^-glucose as /i-glucose. The terms have been altered to bring them into agree- 
ment with the nomenclature adopted. 

sThe numerical values are Simon's. 

2 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 8 CARBOHYDRATES 

of establishing equilibrium almost immediately. As a glucose of high 
initial rotatory power was obtained from a-methyl glucoside, and one 
of low initial rotatory power from the /8-glucoside, it is clear that 
a- and )8-glucose correspond respectively to the a- and /8-glucoside. 

It remains to establish the nature of Tanret's 7-glucose, which he, 
as well as Simon and Lippmann, r^arded as a third isomeride, ascrib- 
ing the mutarotation of a- and yS-glucose to their complete conversion 
into the isomeric aldehyde. 

The change in rotatory power of glucose was shown to be a process 
of reversible isomeric change by Lx)wiy in 1899. Lowry subsequently 
(1903) concluded that not only are a- and )3-glucose isodynamic com- 
pounds, but that Tanret's 7-glucose is a mixture in which these two 
compounds are present in equilibrium. 

On concentration of the solution of such an equilibrated mixture, 
a point is reached when one of the constituents crystallises out from 
the saturated liquid. The mixture in solution is consequently thrown 
out of equilibrium ; but as this happens a change takes place spon- 
taneously to restore the equilibrium — fi passing into a, or vice versA. 
A solution of glucose containing a- and /3-forms can therefore be made 
to yield wholly a- or wholly )3-glucose on concentration, according to 
the temperature at which crystallisation takes place. The a-form, 
which is then the less soluble, is that obtained at lower temperatures ; 
but above 98"*, the )3-form, being the less soluble at the higher tem- 
perature, alone separates. Were the change into aldehyde complete, 
as Simon and Lippmann suggest, it would be impossible by mere 
crystallisation to convert this into a-glucose. 

Tanret (1905) has accepted the conclusion that there are but two 

isomerides of glucose, corresponding to the a- and )3-methyl glucosides, 

< and that his supposed third modification is an equilibrated mixture of 

I these two forms. He has calculated from the rotatory power [a\^ + 110** 

I of the pure a- and [a]^ + 19" of the pure )8-form that the proportion in 

' which these are in equilibrium is a = 37 per cent., )8 = 63 per cent, in a 

ID per cent, solution, and a-40, )8«6o per cent, in a concentrated 

aqueous solution. 

By means of solubility determinations Lowry finds 52 per cent, of 
the a-form to be present in saturated solutions of glucose in methyl 
alcohol : the proportion of a decreases as the amount of water increases, 
amounting to 40 per cent, in the mixture EtOH + HjO. He does not, 
however, interpret the remaining 60 per cent, of sugar present in solu- 
tion as )3-glucose, but considers that some quantity of the aldehyde 
form is also present 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 19 

Behrend finds that o-glucose can exist in contact with boiling 
ethyl or isobutyl alcoholic solutions, or as the monohydrate in contact 
with aqueous solutions. From the solution in boiling pyridine a 
nionop)n'idine salt of jS-glucose separates, which on exposure rapidly 
loses pyridine. This forms the most convenient method of preparing 
/8-glucose, which, according to Behrend, has m.p. 148-1 50^ [a]D + 207°. 

Glucose as purified by crystallisation from dilute methyl alcohol is 
almost invariably a mixture of the different forms. To obtain a 
homogeneous substance the solid is soaked during several days or 
weeks with the solvent, at a constant temperature, until the* whole of 
the j8-sugar present has been converted into the a-isomeride (Lowry). 

When the mixture of alcohol and water is sufficiently dilute glucose 
crystallises as hydrate, the transformation from* anhydrous glucose to 
hydrate being clearly visible to the eye as the sugar changes from a 
fine powder to a hard cake of glistening crystals. Glucose hydrate ' 
undoub tedly has the structure of the oxonium hydroxide : — n 

XoH 

It is characteristic of the carbohydrates that their optical rotatory 
power is altered, in some cases very considerably, by changes of con- 
centration or of sugar. On the hypothesis that actually there is 
present in solution a mixture of two isomerides in equilibrium, it is 
obvious that the changes in question will disturb the equilibrium in one 
or the other direction. In the case of glucose temperature has hardly 
any influence, but the rotation is greater in more concentrated solutions. 
When these are diluted the rotatory power returns to the lower value 
only slowly, corresponding with the gradual establishment of the new 
equilibrium. The rotation of fructose is very greatly influenced by 
change of temperature. The effect of salts in altering the rotatory 
power is also in part due to their concentration effect tending to alter 
the position of the equilibrium. 

The knowledge of the mutarotation of glucose and fructose, par- 
ticularly when liberated from sucrose, has been materially advanced by \ 
Hudson in a series of papers commenced in 1908, some years subse- 1 
quent to the definite proof of the nature of mutarotation by Armstrong 
and Lowry. 

Hudson draws attention to the recognition by O'Sullivan and 
Tompson in 1890 that the earlier polarimetric measurements of the 
inversion of sucrose by invertase were vitiated by a s}^tematic error 
due to the fact that the glucose formed is initially in a mutarotatory 

2* 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 



CARBOHYDRATES 



condition. The optical rotation only gives a true measure of the 
amount of inversion after the addition of a drop of alkalL 

Hudson shows that on hydrolysis of sucrose by invertase a-glucose 
having [a]D+ 109", and a-fructose, having [0]©+ 17", are the initial pro- 
ducts. The fructose very rapidly changes to its stable state, the 
glucose reaches equilibrium more slowly. 

Isomeric Change. 

It remains to discuss very briefly the mechanism of the isomeric 
change tf^/S-glucose. Two rival explanations have been advanced 
which differ really only in one respect : Lx)wry considers the forma- 
tion of the aldehyde or its hydrate, which involves the opening of the 
ring, to be an intermediate stage in the process ; E. F. Armstrongs 
however, has formulated the change as taking place without any dis- 
ruption of the 7-oxide ring. 

According to Lowr/s view, the change is represented by the 
scheme of equilibrium : — 



H0--C— H 

ClHLOir^ 
CH . OH^^ 

1 






CH(OH), 
CH.OH 
CH.OH 

CH.OH 

1. 


H— C— OH 

chTohT 

CH.OH 

CH.OH 

CHj.OH 

i9-Glucoae. 




-* 

<- 


CH.OH 

1 






CH.OH 

CHj.OH 
Aldehyde hydrate. 


CH,.OH 
flt-Gluco6e. 







This scheme is intermediate in character between Fischer's former 
view (p. 16), that mutarotation is due to hydration and the more recent 
view that mutarotation is due to isomeric change. 

In anhydrous alcohol (which, however, contains traces of water) the 
velocity of the isomeric change a^/8-glucose is small, but it increases 
as water is added and the opportunity for hydration is increased. 
Lowry takes the view that an aqueous solution of glucose contains a 
considerable proportion of aldehyde (open-chain form), in addition to 
a- and /3-glucose (closed-ring forms), whereas in alcoholic solution 
there is little or no aldehyde. 

E. F. Armstrong considers the first stage in the process to be the 
formation, by the addition of >vater, of the oxonium hydrate, from 
which, by the elimination of water in another manner, an unsaturated 
compound results. It is possible to add the elements of water to this 
unsaturated bond in either of two ways, giving rise to the a- and )9- 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLQCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 21 

glucoses respectively or their oxonium hydrates. Both isoinerides are 
thus simultaneously formed The stereoisomerism is pictured in this 
manner as arising from a difference in the position of the hydrogen 
atom relative to the pentaphane oxygen atom, both attached to the 
terminal carbon atom ^ (in clarendon type). In the following scheme 

,0H 

O- 






I ^ I 

zst Position s a-Gluco6e. /S-Linkage before rotation. and Position » iS-Glacoee. 

only the carbon skeleton of the pentaphane ring is indicated : — 




Unsaturated compound. 

/S-Qlucose. 
— • sa a-Ltnkage. » /i-Linkage. 

This explanation of the isomeric change has the advantage that it 
is equally applicable to the analogous interconversion of the a- and 
j3-acetochloro glucoses and of the a- and ^-pentacetyl glucoses, neither 

^ The asymmetric carbon atom in Clarendon type has attached to it the four radicles — 
(x) hydrogen, (a) hydroxy!, (3^ the pentaphane oxygen, (4) a carbon atom of the ring. The 
stereoisomeriam of a- and /S-glucoie is explained above as due to the interchange in the 
relative positions of the hydrogen and the pentaphane oxygen. This relationship is 
awkward to picture in plane formulas; it is dierefore more convenient to represent the 
stereoisomerism as due to the interchange in the relative positions of the hydrogen and 
hydroxyl radicles, as is done for example in the formula on previous pages. Reference 
to a solid model will show that this comes to exactly the same in the end, as the carbon 
atom in engaging with the pentaphane oxygen in its a or /S position is necessarily rotated, 
so that a projection of the solid tetrahedron viewed in plan will show hydrogen alternately 
on the right and left of hydroxyl. 



Digitized by 



Google 



22 



CARBOHYDRATES 



of which can be explained on the aldehyde hydrate hypothesis ; and 
it also applies to the interconversion of the a- and fi-mcthyl glycosides. 
In this last case Fischer has assumed that an intermediate compound 
of the acetal type is produced and the pentaphane ring is opened — a 
scheme identical with that just described as subsequently advocated 
by Lx)wry. 

The first product of the action of dry methyl alcohol containing 
I per cent, of hydrogen chloride on glucose at the ordinary temperature 
is a syrup differing from either glucoside. This could not be analysed, 
but was r^;arded by Fischer as glucose dimethylacetal.^ On heating 
this, it is in part converted inta a mixture of the two glucosides in 
unequal quantities. A similar mixture is obtained when either gluco- 
side is heated with the acidified alcohol. 




CH(OMc)^ 
CH.0H 
CH.0H 
CH.C 

A, 



HC-^Me 



[.OH 



iH.OH 




:Ht.OH 
Glnoose dimethylacetal. 

On the other hand, measurements of the velocity of their trans- 
formation made by Jungius led him to the conclusion that the two 
glucosides are directly convertible into each other and that it is very 
improbable that an acetal is formed. Further, the reversible conver- 
sion of the a- and ^tetramethyl methyl glucosides takes place at tem- 
peratures of I lo'-iso'* independently of the nature of the solvent used : 
a result which excludes the intermediate formation of a compound of 
an acetal type. 

The isomeric change of one series of glucose derivatives into the 
other has been formulated in the forgoing on the hypothesis that 
additive oxonium compounds are formed in which the lactonic oxygen 
displays quadrivalency. Indeed no other explanation is applicable to 
all the transformations observed in the glucose series. Such additive 
oxonium compounds are well known to be formed in other cases, such 
as dimethylpyrone (Collie and Tickle). Recently Irvine and Moodie 

^ A compound analogous to the acetal is obtained by the interaction of ethylmercaptan 
and glucose in presence of much hydrochloric add. This is termed glucose ethylmercaptal, 

CH^OH) . [CH(OH)l . CH(SEt)^ 
It crystallises well, but cannot be converted into compounds analogous to the glucosides. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 23 

have brought forward evidence to show that tetramethyl glucose forms 
an oxonium derivative with isopropyl iodide. The presence of the 
etheric groups in the alkylated sugar apparently increases the basicity 
of the 7-oxidic oxygen atom, and so makes the identification of the 
oxonium compound possible. 

From the biological point of view, the fact that glucose exists in 
solution not as a single substance but as an equilibrated mixture of 
stereoisomeric 7-oxidic forms, readily convertible into one another, is 
of fundamental and far-reaching importance. If one of the stereo- 
isomerides is preferentially metabolised in the plant or animal, in the 
course of either synthetic or analytic processes, the possibility of con- 
trolling the equilibrium in the one or other direction, so as to increase 
or limit the supply of this form, places a very delicate directive 
mechanism at the disposal of the organism. This question is. un- 
doubtedly one which demands the close attention of physiologists. 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 CARBOHYDRATES 



Stereoisomerism of the Aldohexoses, 

A compound represented by the empirical formula, 

CH,(0H) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO, 

containing four asymmetric carbon atoms, should, according to the 
Le Bel-Van't Hoff hypothesis, be capable of existing in sixteen stereo- 
isomeric forms, e^ht of which would be mirror images of the other 
eight and of equal but opposite rotatory power. 

Thus, corresponding to ordinary dextro-glucose (glucose), there 
should be a laevo-rotatory isomeride (/-glucose) of equal and opposite 
rotatory power, of like configuration but having the dissimilar radicles 
in reversed order.^ In point of fact, when glucose is prepared by arti- 
ficial means from optically inactive material, a mixture in equal pro- 
portions of d- and /-forms is actually obtained Such a mixture is 
optically inactive — whether the two forms actually combine or merely 
neutralise one another is unknown. 

Although only three aldohexoses occur naturally (glucose, man- 
nose, galactose), fourteen of the sixteen possible isomerides are now 
known. Emil Fischer, to whom we owe the discovery of this remark- 
able series, has not only shown how they may be prepared, but has 
made them in such ways that their structural relationship may be 
regarded as established. His results are summarised in the following 
table :— 

^ The formulae assigned to d' and ^glucose are chosen arbitrarily ; that is to say, it 
is assumed that in the <2-form the groups occupy a certain position, whence it follows 
that in the stereoisomeride they are present in the reversed position. For proof of 
the validity of the formulae and the arguments by which they are deduced, the reader is 
referred to Fischer's summary in the B^richte der deutschen chemiscken Gesellschaft for 
X894 (p. 3189) and to the larger text-books on organic chemistry. A further convention 
is to indicate as belonging to the ^{-series all compounds derived from dextro-glucose by 
simple reactions which leave the stereochemical structure of the molecule unchanged. In 
many instances, as for example ^{-fructose and <2-arabinose, the new cmnpound rotates 
polarised light to the left, so that the prefix does not give a correct indication of the sense 
of the rotation. Similarly all compounds derived from laevo-glucose are designated as of 
the /-series though they may be dextro-rotatory. It has been possible to connect the 
amino acids, hydroxy adds and some other optically active substances with dextro-glucose, 
so that the prefix d has a very definite significance in these cases. Unfortunately in other 
cases the prefix merely denotes the sign of the rotation, so that <2-mandelic acid, for ex- 
ample, which is dextro-rotatory, forms a laevo-rotatory nitrile, which is therefore termed 
/-mandelo nitrile. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 25 



COH 



TABLE 11. 
ALDORBXO8B8. 
(a) Mannitol Series. 
COH COH 



H— 



—OH 



H OH 



HO— 
HO— 



HO H 



-H 
-H 



HO— 

H 
H— 



CH^OH 

l-Mannose. 
COH 

HO— I— H 
H OH 

Ho H 

H OH 

CH,OH 

/•Idote. 



— H 

OH 
—OH 



CH»OH 

<^Manno8e. 
COH 

H OH 

HO H 

H OH 

HO H 

CH,OH 




COH 

—OH 
OH 



H- 
H- 
HO H 



H- 



—OH 



CH,OH 
/-Gulose. 




(b) Dukiiol Series, 
COH COH 



H— 
HO— 
HO— 



CH^OH 
^Galactose. 

COH 
HOJ— H 



—OH 
— H 
— H 



H— 



—OH 



H OH 



HO— 
HO 



HO— 



-H 
-H 
-H 



CH,OH 

/AUose 
unknown. 



H OH 

CH,OH 
il-Galactoae. 

COH 

H— I— OH 

H OH 

H OH 

H— OH 

CH,OH 
d'Al\o9t. 



H— 
HO-^ 



—OH 

— H 



CH,OH 
l-Talose. 



COH 



H— 
HO— 
HO— 
HO— 



OH 
— H 
— H 
— H 



COH 

H— I— OH 

HO H 

H— I— OH 
H OH 

6h,oh 

i^GlucoEe. 

COH 

HO-I— H 

HO H 

H OH 

HO H 

CHjOH 

^-Gulose. 



COH 

HO-I— H 

HO H 

HO H 



CHtOH 
d-Talose. 

COH 
HO— I— H 



H 

H— 



CHfiH 
l-Altrose 
unknown* 



—OH 
OH 



H— |— OH 
CH,OH 

if-Altrose. 



As two closed-chain forms should exist corresponding to each 
of the open chain aldehydic forms, no less a number of isomeric 
** glucoses" is foreseen by theory than 16 + 32 = 48. 

The last four aldohexoses in the table remained unknown to 
Fischer, though he pointed out that they were to be derived theoretic- 
ally from the isomeric riboses, only one of which had at that time been 
prepared The discovery by Levene and Jacobs that rf-ribose is a 
constituent of nucleic acids, from which it can be obtained in quantity, 
has enabled two of the missing aldoses to be prepared. By the 
application of the cyanohydrin synthesis (p. 37) to rf-ribose, rf-allose 
and rf-altrose were obtained as syrups both yielding the same phenyl- 
osazone. Their behaviour on oxidation is in agreement with the 
structural formulae assigned to them. 

It is customary to designate the carbon atoms by Greek letters, 
that next to the aldehyde (CHO) group being a, the next /8 and so 
on, the terminal primary alcohol (CH,. OH) group being the €-carbon 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 CARBOHYDRATES 

atom. Irvine proposes to number the carbon atoms i to 6, the 
carbon of the aldehyde (CHO) group being i and that of the primary- 
alcohol 6. 

Votocek has suggested the use of the prefix ^ to denote the new- 
carbohydrate formed by the interchange of the H and OH groups on 
the a-carbon atom ; thus mannose becomes epiglucose, ribose becomes 
epiarabinose ; the change is spoken of as epimerism and the isomeric 
pair as epimerides. 

Fructose, which contains a keto group attached to the o-carbon atom, 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CO . CH,(0H), 

has the same configuration a$ glucose and mannose apart from this 
a-carbon atom. It is obvious therefore that any treatment which 
involves destruction of the asymmetry of the a-carbon atom will 
occasion the formation of the same compound fi'om all three hexoses. 
Most of the carbohydrates exist in more than one form and show 
mutarotation. The available data are collected in the following table. 
The rotations given are the extremes at present recorded ; probably 
in most cases they apply to products which are not entirely free from 
admixture with the isomeride. It is not always certain whether the 
common crystalline form of the carbohydrate represents the a- or j8- 
form. Ordinary crystalline maltose is probably /9-maltose (p. 63) and 
according to Hudson crystalline fructose belongs to the /9-series and 
not to the a-series as supposed hitherto. In cases where the be- 
haviour towards enzymes cannot be utilized to indicate the a ox ^ 
structure of a carbohydrate it is difficult to assign the correct prefix 
except on the ground of analogy. Hudson proposes to name the 
sugars solely on account of their optical rotatory power and he has 
suggested the following rule, z/i>., that the subtraction of the rotation 
of the /9-form from that of the a-form shall give a positive difference 
for all sugars which are genetically related to ^^glucose, that is those 
which are commonly written with the prefix d. On the contrary for 
all sugars related to /-glucose this difference shall be negative. Hud- 
son has calculated the rotations of the unknown forms of the carbo- 
hydrates on this basis and his figures are adopted provisionally in the 
following table. The matter cannot yet be regarded as settled and tha 
calculation of the optical activity of a compound with five asym- 
metric carbon atoms is hardly justified by the present knowledge of 
the relation between optical activity and structure. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 27 



TABLE III. 



Carbohydrate. 



a-Form. 


/^Form. 


+ no" 


+ ao« 


+ 76"* 


- 14** 


+ 140" 


+ 53^ 


+ 17° 


-146° 


+ 76** 


+ 184** 


+ 100° 


- go* 


- r 


+ 32" 


+ i66o» 


+ 119** 


+ 86» 


+ 35^ 


+ 171 


+ 1240 



Eqailibrated mixture. 


+ 52*5° 


+ 14" 


+ 81" 


-93"^ 


+ 104° 


+ 19** 


+ 9^ 


+ 137^^ 


+ 55-3^ 


+ 143** 



<2-Gluco8e . 
<2-Manno6e . 
<2-Ga]act08e . 
<2-Fructoee . 
/-Arabinose . 

/-Rhamnose . 
J-Maltose 
<2-Lacto8e hydrate 
J-Melibiose . 



* s Calculated values. 



According to Anderson the direction and degree of optical rotation 
of the carbohydrates is determined by the configuration of the or and 
/8-carbon atoms. The four possible configurations with their corres- 
ponding rotations are : — 



CHO 
H— I— OH 
HO— I— H 
Strongly 
dextro-rotatory. 



CHO 
HO— I— H 
H— I— OH 

Strongly 
laevo-rotatory. 



CHO CHO 

HO-I— H H— I— OH 

HO-^— H H— I— OH 

Both slightly 

dextro- or laevo-rotatory. 



The data for the criticism of this theory are at present insufficient ; 
the theory also ignores the rotatory powers of these substances in their 
pure a- and )8-forms, having reference only to the figure in an equi- 
librated mixture. 

^Hudson following Rosanoff considers natural xylose to be genetically related to 
</-gluco6e and not to /-glucose as supposed by Fischer. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER II. 

THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE. 

Glucose, the other aldoses and the ketoses in general show a great 
tendency to become further oxidl^ ; this is evidenced by their activity 
as reducing agents. They reduce alkaline copper solutions on warming 
forming red cuprous oxide, likewise ammoniacal silver solutions forming 
a metallic mirror. When heated with alkali, a sugar solution colours 
at first yellow, subsequently brown and finally decomposes : a variety 
of substances, including lactic acid and other hydroxy acids, are formed. 
Valuable analytical methods for the estimation of glucose are based on 
the reaction with copper salts in alkaline solution, but the precise changes 
which the sugar undei^oes under these conditions are not completely 
understood. 

When carbohydrates are kept with alkali hydroxide at 37** the 
optical rotation of the solution decreases and the acidity increases. 
Sodium hydroxide exerts the greatest action, sodium carbonate being 
considerably weaker ; ammonia of the same strength is almost without 
action. 

The complexity of the molecule of glucose makes it obvious that a 
variety of products will be formed on decomposition. Thus, on electro- 
lysis in dilute sulphuric acid. Lob finds that formaldehyde, ^^rabinose 
and other products result ; Lob and Pulvermacher have identified 
formaldehyde, pentoses, acetylcarbinol, acetylmethylcarbinol and poly- 
hydroxyacids after treatment of glucose solutions with lead or sodium 
hydroxides, even in solutions which have an alkalinity corresponding 
to that of the body. They consider these processes as typifying the 
reverse of the sugar synthesis from formaldehyde (Chapter VI.). Fruc- 
tose undergoes similar changes in solution under the influence of ultra- 
violet light, but glucose is much less susceptible to attack. 

Nef, in a very elaborate study of the action of alkalis on carbohy- 
drates based on much experimental work, comes to an exactly opposite 
conclusion to Lob and Pulvermacher. According to him pentose and 
formaldehyde are never obtained from hexose on decomposition by 
alkali, the normal products being either diose and tetrose or two mole- 

28 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 29 

cules of triose (glyceraldehydc). Nef considers that hexoses are never 
formed synthetically from pentose and formaldehyde ; the synthesis of 
carbohydrate from formaldehyde never goes further than hexose nor is 
there any condensation of hydroxymethylene molecules to inositol. 

The subject is too complex to repay further discussion. The for«» 
mation of the saccharins and saccharinic acids is also outside the range 
of this monograph. 

Particularly characteristic is the reaction of the sugars with excess 
of phenyl hydrazine on heating in dilute acetic acid solution. An 
orange-yellow insoluble phenyl osazone is formed, which serves to 
characterise glucose even when present only in very small quantities, 
though not to distinguish it from some of the isomeric hexoses which 
give the same or closely related phenyl osazone& The use of phenyl 
hydrazine possesses further a historical interest, as in the hands of 
Emil Fischer it served as one of the chief aids in the elucidation of the 
chemistry of the carbohydrates. 

Glucose reacts > with phenyl hydrazine in acid solution, acetic acid 
being usually employed, in two stages. In the first, whichi takes place 
in cold solution, a phenyl hydrazone is formed : — 

CeHijOe + CeH^ . NH . NH, = QHnOj . CH : N . NH . CeH^ + Hfi 

This is a colourless compound, soluble in water, existing in two 
modifications, one or other of which is obtained according to the method 
of preparation. 

Skraup's ^-phenyl hydrazone, formed by shaking glucose with 
phenyl hydrazine in alcoholic solution, crystallises in needles, m.p. 
106-107^ and has an optical rotation in aqueous solution of [a]^ - 2°^ 
changing to - 50". Fischer's a-isomeride, formed in alcoholic acetic 
acid solution, crystallises in leaflets, m.p. 159-160*, [ajo - 70° changing 
to - 50°. Behrend has shown Skraup's j8-isomeride to be in reality a 
compound of phenyl hydrazine (i mol.) with 2 molecules of the /8- 
hydrazone. This hydrazone also forms an additive compound with 
pyridine which, on treatment with alcohol, yields glucose fi-phenyl hy- 
drazone, m. p. 140-141°, [a]^ - S'S''. Behrend has advanced evidence to 
show that this is a true hydrazone, 

CHj(OH) . [CH(OH)]4 . CH : N . NHPh. 

whereas Fischer's glucose a-phenyl hydrazone is a hydrazide : — 

-o- 



CHa(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH(OH)], . CH . NH . NHPh 

It should be capable of existing in two stereoisomeric forms (cp. p. 15). 
The phenyl hydrazones of glucose and most of the other sugars,. 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 



CARBOHYDRATES 



being easily soluble, are not adapted for characterising the parent sugars. 
An exception is afforded by mannose, which forms an almost insoluble 
phenyl hydrazone and can thus be very readily detected. This com- 
pound affords a striking illustration of the influence exercised by the 
configuration of the molecule on its physical properties. Sparingly 
soluble phenyl hydrazones are also formed by the methyl pentoses. 

Asymmetrically disubstituted hydrazines of the type, NH, . NR . 
C9H5, such as methylphenyl, benzylphenyl or diphenyl hydrazines, also 
react with the sugars, and some of these hydrazones are sparingly soluble 
and are characteristic of a particular sugar. Many of them are in- 
cluded in the following Table IV. In some instances two forms of the 
hydrazone have been described. 

Thus the methylphenyl hydrazone is characteristic of galactose and 
the diphenyl hydrazone of arabinose. The influence of the position of 
the OH groups on the physical properties is even more marked in the 
case of the dihydrazones formed with diphenylmethane dimethyl dihy- 
drazine CHJ^C^H^NMe . NH^l (Braun). Arabinose, rhamnose, mannose 
and galactose react readily with this hydrazine forming almost insoluble 
hydrazones, whereas corresponding hydrazones are not obtained from 
glucose, xylose and the disaccharides. 

TABLE IV. 

MELTING-POINTS OF SUGAR HYDRAZONES AND OSAZONES. 





ArabinOM. 


Glncoae. 


Mannoae. 


Gakctow. 


Maltose. 


Lactose. 


Hydrazorus, 














I%enyl hydrazone • • 


I5i''-i53'' 


/llS'-lieoi 
\l44"'-i46*'/ 


1860-188° 


158" 


— 


— 


^-Bromopbenyl hydrazone . 


i50» 


147" 


ao8°-2io° 


168° 


— 


— 


a-Methylphenyl hydrazone . 
a-Ethylp: lenyl hydrazone 


161** 


130" 


I78» 


iSo" 


— 


— 


153' 




159° 


i69« 


— 


— 


a-Amylphenyl hydrazone 


I20« 


I28« 


134° 


116" 


■ — 


123° 


a-Allylphenvl hydrazone 
a-Benzoylphenyl hydrazone . 
Diphenyl hydrazone 


145" 


155' 


142° 


157° 


— 


132° 


I700 


, I65» 


165° 


154" 


— 


128° 


ai8« 


i6i« 


155° 


157° 


— 


— 


/3-Naphthyl hydrazone . 


141° 


*~" 


157° 


i67» 


i76» 


203° 


OsaMotus. 










• 




Phenyl osazone . 


i6o« 


208« 


208° 


193° 


ao6° 


200*» 


^-Bromophenyl osazone 
^Nitrophenyl osazone . 


i96'*-20o'* 


222° 


— 




198° 


— 


— 


257" 


— " 





261° 


asS" 



To prepare the phenyl osazone glucose is heated with a considerable 
excess of phenyl hydrazine ^ (3-4 mols.) and acetic acid, the vessel being 

1 It is important that the phenyl hydrazine should be almost colourless and free from 
ondation products. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC ' 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 31 

immersed in rapidly boiling water for an hour or more, when the in- 
soluble osazone separates : it is best 1 purified by crystallisation from a 
dilute solution of pyridine. The excess of phenyl hydrazine acts as 
an oxidising agent towards the phenyl hydrazone, converting the 
penultimate — CH(OH) group into — CO, and being itself reduced to 
aniline and ammonia. The CO group so formed interacts with a 
further molecule pf phenyl hydrazine to form the osazone : — 

CHO CHiN.NHPh CH:N.NHPh CH:N.NHPh 

CH(OH) CH(OH) CO ' C:N.NHPh 

CH(OH) CH(OH) CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CH(OH) CH(OH) CH(OH) CH(OH) 

<iH(OH) CH(OH) CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) (Jh,(OH) CH,(0H) CH,(0H) 

Aldose ->> Hydrazone ->> Oxidation piodact ->. Osazone - 

Glucose, mannose and fructose yield the same phenyl osazone, 
since the asymmetry of the a-carbon atom is destroyed in its formation. | 
The osazones of the different sugars are as a class very similar in pro- 
perties, those formed by the disaccharides being distinguished by their 
greater solubility in boiling water. The melting-points of the osazones 
depend very largely on the rate of heating and on the method of puri- 
fication adopted, and too much dependence is not to be placed on them 
in identifying unknown sugars. Fischer, for example, states that care- 
fully purified glucosazone heated rapidly in a narrow capillary tube be- 
gins to melt at 208° (corrected), and completely melts at this temperature 
with decomposition if the source of heat be withdrawn. When heating 
is continued at the same rate the thermometer rises to 213° before the 
glucosazone completely melts. When the heating is slower the sub- 
stance b^ns to sinter and melt at 195^ In the case of the disacchar- 
ides, where the purification of the osazone is more difficult, the 
•detennination of the exact melting-point is even less reliable. 

The asymmetrically disubstituted hydrazines do not form osazones 
with glucose on account of their being unable to act as oxidising agents. 
Fructose is more easily attacked by them, probably in consequence of 
the presence of the CHgCOH). CO group, and yields a methylphenyl 
osazone. 

It is often a matter of considerable difficulty to obtain a carbohyd- 
rate in a pure state from solutions which may also contain inorganic 
salts or nitrogenous substances. One of 'the methods adopted is to 
isolate the phenyl hydrazone, purify this by cr>''stallisation, and decom- 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 CARBOHYDRATES 

pose it into sugar and phenyl h)^razine Fischer originally used fuming^ 
hydrochloric acid to effect the decomposition. Benzaldeh3^e was sub- 
stituted for this by Herzfeld ; the phenyl hydrazone is boiled in water 
with a slight excess of benzaldehyde, and the phenyl hydrazine removed 
from solution as insoluble benzaldehyde phenyl hydrazone, 

CaHuOg : N . NHPh + Cfij^ . CHO « CgHuO, + CeHBCH : N . NHPh 
This method was repeatedly adopted with success by Fischer, but it 
gives less satisfactory results with the disubstituted hydrazones, in which 
case formaldehyde may with advantage be substituted for benzaldehyde,. 
as suggested by Ruff and Ollendorf. The hydrazone is dissolved ia 
dilute formaldehyde and heated at the temperature of the water bath» 
CeHuOg : N . NRR' + HCHO - CeHi,0, + H . CH : N .'nRR'. The 
excess of formaldehyde is removed and the pure sugar solution concen- 
trated in vacuum. 

Fuming hydrochloric acid acts on the osazone in the same manner 
as it does on the hydrazone, eliminating in this instance both hydrazine 
groups to form an osone : — 

CH : iN . NHPh HCl, H,0 CHO HCl . H,N . NHPh 

C:N.NHPh HC1,'H,0 CO HCl . H,N . NHPh 

C1H(0H) CH(OH) 

CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) CH^OH) 

Phenyl osazone. Osone. 

Glucose, mannose and fructose, which form the same phenyl osazone„ 
likewise form the same osone. These osones are colourless syrups ; 
they act as strong reducing agents, and combine directly with phenyl 
hydrazine or with disubstituted phenyl hydrazines forming osazones^ 
The osones combine also with ^phenylene diamine. They are not 
fermentable. On reduction glucosone is converted into fructose. This^ 
is the only method available of regenerating a sugar from the phenyl 
osazone. When the sugar originally used was an aldose the correspond- 
ing ketose results. The method is of great historical interest, as by its 
aid Fischer established the nature of the synthetical o-acrose. The 
osazones of the disaccharides are hydrolysed by acids to hexose,. 
hexosone and phenylhydrazine — 

CHj A • O • CeHioO^NjHPhK + 2HCI + 3H^ 
^CeHijOe + C^HioO, + 2NH9 . NHPh . HCl 
Hexose. Hexosone. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 33 

— and Fischer's hydrochloric add method is thus not available for the 
conversion into osone. Since, however, the osazones of the disac- 
charides are soluble in boiling water, it is possible to remove the phenyl 
hydrazine residues by means of benzaldehyde (Fischer and Armstrong), 
and so obtain the osones — 

CeHiiOo . O. CH, . [CH . OH], . CO . CHO 

These osones are similar to glucosone in properties : they are hydro- 
lysed by enzymes in the same way as the parent disaccharides. 



Reduction. 

When reduced with sodium amalgam, glucose and its isomerides 
form the corresponding hexahydric alcohols, two hydrogen atoms being 
added to the hexose. Sorbitol is formed from glucose, mannitol 
from mannose, and dulcitol from galactose. Fructose yields a mixture 
of the two alcohols, sorbitol and mannitol (see p. 57). These alcohols 
have the following figuration formulae : — 

CiHj.OH CHa.OH CH,.OH 



HC.OH 



HC .OH HO . CH 

HO . CH HO . CH HO . CH 

HC .OH HC . OH HO . CH 

HC^OH HC.OH HC.OH 

CHsOH CHj.OH CHa.OH 

Sorbitol. Mannitol. Dulcitol. 

All three alcohols occur in plants, mannitol being widely distributed. 
In the fungi and some other orders mannitol exceeds glucose in quan- 
tity, or even replaces it. It has a sweet taste. None of the alcohols 
are fermented by yeasts ; mannitol, however, is a product of some 
bacterial fermentations, and is attacked by many moulds and bacteria. 
Dulcitol, no doubt on account of the difference in configuration, is in 
general far more resistant to bacterial attack. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHO 


CO«H 


(CH.0H)4 


(CH.OH)^ 


CO,H 

Olucttronic acid. 


CO,H 



34 CARBOHYDRATES 

Oxidation. 

J Glucose on oxidation gives rise to three acids containing the same 

number of carbon atoms ; two of these acids are monobasic, the third 

is dibasic Their structure is as follows : — 

CHO C0,H 

{CH.0H)4 (CH.0H)4 

CHjOH CH,OH 

Glucose. Gluconic acid. 

In g^luconic acid the aldehyde group of glucose is oxidised to carboxyl : 
it is conveniently prepared by the action of bromine on glucose. 
Gluconic acid in solution very readily passes over into a T^lactone, the 
change, which is accompanied by an alteration in rotatory power, being 
a reversible one. The reaction is not complete, but continues until an 
equilibrium between acid and lactone is reached. Mannose and other 
aldoses form mannonic acid and similar acids corresponding to gluconic 
acid. 

As pointed out by Hudson these 7-lactones, like the aldose sugars 
and their glucosidic derivatives, all of which have a 7-oxide structure 
exhibit strong optical rotatory power, whereas the corresponding 
alcohols and ^cids, which are open-chain compounds, are but slightly 
active. The rotatory power is evidently connected with the 7-oxide 
constitution and the sign of the rotation must depend on the position 
of the ring, which is in turn dependent on the position of the hydroxyl 
group attached to the 7-carbon atom before the ring was produced. 
According to Hudson dextro-rotatory lactones have the ring on one 
side of the structure, laevo-rotatory rings on the other side as is illus- 
trated by the lactcmes of gluconic and galactonic acids. 





HC 

I 
HCOH HCOH 

CHjOH CHjOH 

Gluconic lactone. Galactonic lactone. 

[o]d + 68*. [o]d - lO'f. 

The theory has been extended to the determination of the constitu- 
tion of lactones of unknown structure. It does not apply to the aldoses 
themselves or to the glucosides. 

The rate of action of bromine water on the aldoses is influenced 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 35 

considerably by their configuration : galactose, for example, is much 
more rapidly oxidised than glucose. (VotocSk and N&necek.) 

An important property of gluconic and similar acids, and one which 
has been of the utmost value in effecting the synthesis of the sugars, 
is their behaviour on heating with quinoline or pyridine. It is well 
known that in most substances containing an asymmetric carbon atom, 
rearrangement takes place, when they are heated, so as to form the 
corresponding antimere mixed with the original substance. When 
gluconic acid is heated with quinoline or pyridine at i3o''-iSO** it is 
partially converted into mannonic acid. The rearrangement is appar- 
ently restricted to the groups attached to the a-carbon atom, as is the 
case in the transformation of glucose to mannose by alkalis. It is 
reversible, mannonic acid being converted into gluconic acid : — 

CO,H CO,H 

H.C.OH ^ HO.fc.H 

(CH.OH), ^ (CH.OH), 

CHjOH CHjOH 

i^Gluconic add. J-Mannonic add. 

Similarly, rf-galactonic and rf-talonic acid are mutually interconvertible. 
Saccharic acid is formed by the action of nitric acid on glucose ; 
it forms a sparingly soluble acid potassium salt, which serves as a 
test for glucose. Saccharic acid is also produced from sucrose, raffinose, 
trehalose, dextrin and starch, all of which contain glucose. On the 
other hand, mucic acid — the corresponding oxidation product ot 
galactose — is produced by the action of nitric acid on galactose, 
dulcitol, lactose, melibiose and the gumg. 

Glucuronic Acid.^ — Physiologically the most interesting oxidation 
product of glucose is glucuronic acid, which is frequently found in the 
urine, combined with a variety of substances, forming compounds of 
glucosidic nature. It has been found in the sugar beet combined with 
a resin acid. Normally glucose is rapidly oxidised in the animal 
organism to carbon dioxide and water. When certain substances 
such as chloral or camphor, which are oxidised in the body only with 
difficulty, are brought into the system the organism has the power of 
combining them with glucose to form glucosides. In such compounds 
one end of the glucose molecule is shielded from attack, but oxidation 
takes place at the other extremity of the molecule, and a glucuronic 
acid derivative is formed. They are excreted in the urine. The 
faculty of removing injurious substances from circulation in combination 
^ Also written Glycuronic add. 

3* 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 CARBOHYDRATES 

with glucose seems to be common to both the animal and die vegetable 
kingdom, and the glycosides in the plant may be compared to the 
glucuronic acid derivatives in the animal. The glucuronates behave 
like glucosides, and form glucuronic acid when hydrolysed by mineral 
acids. The glucuronate most commonly employed for the preparation 
of the acid is euxanthic acid, a substance obtained in India from the 
urine of cows which have been fed with mango leaves. Euxanthic 
acid is very readily hydrolysed by dilute acids and breaks down into 
euxanthon and glucuronic acid — 

A number of substances when introduced into the organism are 
excreted in the urine as " paired " glucuronic acid compounds. .The 
most important are included in the following list : — 

isopropyl alcohol chloral benzene turpentine oil 

methylpropyl carbinol butylchloral nitrobenzene camphor 

methylhexyl carbinol bromal aniline bomeol 

tertiary butyl alcohol dichloracetone phenol menthol 

tertiary amyl alcohol resorcinol pinene 

pinacone thymol antipyrine 

a- and /3-naphthol etc. 

As the formula indicates, glucuronic acid is the first reduction product 
of saccharic acid, and it was obtained in this way by Fischer and Filoty 
from saccharic acid lactone. Glucuronic acid forms a lactone which 
crystallises well. The paired acids are laevo-rotatory. 

Since aniline dyes have almost entirely displaced euxanthic acid 
from the market the latter has become very scarce. A convenient 
source of glucuronic acid has been found in the menthol compound 
obtained in the urine of rabbits after administration of menthol. The 
urine is extracted with ether and ammonia added, when the ammonium 
salt separates. (Neuberg.) 

According to Neuberg glucuronic acid or an isomeride is produced 
in small quantity when glucose is oxidised by nitric acid for the pre- 
paration of saccharic acid. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 37 



Ssmthesis and Degradation. 

The methods devised in the laboratory for the formation of carbo- 
hydrates containing a greater or lesser number of carbon atoms than 
six in the chain are of interest 

The aldoses combine directly with . hydrogen cyanide forming 
nitriles ; these, when hydrolysed, give rise to acids containing one 
carbon atom more than the original carbohydrate. 

C«H„05 . CHO + HCN = CoHnO. . CH(OH) . CN -► 
C5Hu05.CH(OH).CO,H -► CaHiA • CH(QH) . CHO 

^The lactones of these acids, when reduced with sodium amalgam, 
yield the corresponding aldoses with one carbon atom more than the 
original carbohydrate. 

In this manner glucose can be obtained from arabinose, glucoheptose 
from glucose. The process has been continued by Fischer as far as 
the aldononoses in the case of glucose and mannose ; Philippe has 
prepared glucodecose. It would be possible by such a method to 
advance step by step from formaldehyde to the higher sugars, but the 
operation would demand the expenditure of very large quantities of 
material. 

The cyanohydrin synthesis, however, is not in reality so simple 
as just pictured, inasmuch as usually two stereoisomeric nitriles are 
formed simultaneously. Arabinose gives both glucose and mannose, 
glucose yields two glucoheptoses. On the basis of the aldehydic 
formula for glucose a new asymmetric carbon atom is created in the 
nitrile, and, according to the ordinary rules, two forms will be pro- 
duced unless the synthesis is asymmetric in character. Mannose and 
fructose afford the only instances at present recorded in which only 
one nitrile is formed. 

An alternative view of the synthesis, based on the closed-ring 
formula, considers the two nitriles as formed simultaneously from a- and 
)3-glucoses by a process involving first the rupture of the 7-oxide ring, 
and secondly the addition of hydrogen cyanide. The presence of a- 
and )3-glucose in unequal proportions and the probable difference in 
the rate of formation of the addition product in the two cases will 
explain the formation of the isomeric nitriles in unequal proportions. 
The various stages of the operation are formulated below in the case 
of the a-derivative — 



' Digitized by 



Google 



38 



CARBOHYDRATES 




Lactone of a-Glncoheptonic acid. o-Glncoheptose, aldehyde fonnula. 



The degradation of a sugar, i>., the conversion into one with fewer 
carbon atoms, has been studied by three experimental methods. In 
that of Wohl the oxime of glucose is heated with concentrated sodium 
hydroxide and converted into the nitrile of gluconic acid, from which, 
on further heating, hydrogen cyanide is eliminated and a pentose — d- 
arabinose — formed. The following scheme shows the changes : — 



CHO 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Glucose. 



CH : N , OH 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Oxime. 



CN + HjO 

I 
CH(OH) 



-► I 



CH(OH) 



k 



CH(OH) 
CH(OH) 



H^OH) 
Nitrile. 



HCN 
CHO 



:H(0H) 



CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(0H) 
Arabinose. 



In practice it is preferable to heat the oxime with acetic anhydride 
and a grain of zinc chloride : a vigorous reaction ensues, and the pent- 
acetate of gluconic acid nitrile is formed from which hydrogen cya nide 
is eliminated by treatment with ammoniacal silver oxide 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 



39 



The alternative method due to Ruff makes use of Fenton's mode 
of oxidation with hydrogen peroxide and ferrous salts. The aldose 
is first converted into aldonic acid, the calcium salt of which is sub- 
jected to oxidation, with the result that the carboxyl group is eliminated 
and the pentose formed. 



CHO 
CH(OH) 

I 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

I 
CH(OH) 

CH,{OH) 
Aldohexose. 



CO,H 
C 



k 



-^ I 



:H(0H) 
H(OH) 



CH(OH) 



- k 



CO3 + HaO 

CHO 

CH(OH) 



d 



H(OH) 



H(OH) 



:h,(oh) 

Aldonic acid. 



CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Aldopentose. 



Neuberg has made use of an electrolytic method : the aldose is 
converted into the corresponding acid, the copper salt of which is then 
electrolysed between platinum electrodes. Gluconic acid is in this 
manner converted into d-arBbinose and all the steps in the complete 
degradation to formaldehyde may be traversed The process has been 
carried out with a number of sugars including melibiose, from which 
a sugar with eleven carbon atoms has been obtained. 

Either of these methods is equally applicable to the conversion of 
a pentose into a tetrose, and by them it would be possible to pass from 
glucose to formaldehyde. 

According to Guebert mercuric gluconate when heated undergoes 
intramolecular oxidation forming ^-arabinose in satisfactory quantity. 
Tollens and Boddener find, however, that this method is not applicable 
to the d^radation of arabinose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 



CARBOHYDRATES 



Interconversion of Glucose, Fructose and Mannose. 

Glucose, fructose and mannose pass over into one another in aqueous 
solution in presence of alkalis. This most important transformation was- 
first observed by Lobiy de Bruyn and Van Ekenstein ; it takes place 
slowly at ordinaty temperatures, quickly and with much decomposition 
at higher temperatures. Starting from glucose, the optical rotation is 
observed to fall to about o° ; considerably more fructose than mannose 
is formed in the final product. The change was rightly explained by 
Wohl as due to conversion into the enolic (unsaturated) Cwm common 
to all three carbohydrates : — 



CHO 
HCOH 

HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 
I 
CH,(OH) 

Glucose. 



CHO 
HOCH 
HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 
Mannose. 



CH^OH) 

CO 

HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH> 
Fructose. 



CH(OH) 

II 

C.OH 

HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 
Enolic form. 



The sugar originally present is slowly transformed into enol ; this , 
is reconverted into all three of the possible hexoses. It is to be sup- 
posed that the formation of enol from each one of the hexoses and the 
reverse changes all take place with different velocities ; the reaction is 
further complicated by secondary stages. 

For example, fructose can give rise to a second enolic form, and 
this will occasion the formation of other isomerides, e,g., glutose : — 



CHj(OH) 

CO 
HOCH 
HCOH 
HCOH 

diyoH) 

Fructose. 



CHj(OH) 

COH 

II 

COH 

HCOH 

HCOH 



CH,{( 



:»{0H) 

Second Enolic form. 



CHa(OH) 
CH(OH) 
CO 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 
Glutose. 



which Lobry de Bruyn has isolated as a r^fular product of the trans- 
formation of glucose. The change is obviously exceedingly complicated . 
Prolonged action of the alkali or action at a high temperature leads to 
the formation of hydroxy acids. In pure aqueous solution glucose can 
be kept for years without alteration. This proves that there can be 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 41 

no enolic form present in the equilibrated mixture of a- and /3-glucose 
as is sometimes suggested. 

The guanidine compounds of glucose, fructose and mannose show 
changes of rotatory power in aqueous solution due to the interconver- 
sion of the three hexoses brought about by the guanidine. The 
changes are very similar to those caused by alkalis, but fewer side 
reactions take place in the case of guanidine. 

Since lactic acid and various hydroxy acids result from the action 
of alkalis on glucose (p. 28), the action of ammonia might cause the 
formation of alanine gt other amino acids. Windaus and Knoop, in 
investigating this point, find that the strongly dissociated zinc hydroxide 
ammonia acts on glucose even in the cold, producing methyl glyoxal* 
ine, a closed-ring compound containing nitrogen. Amino acids are 
not formed. To explain this transformation, it is assumed that glyceric 
aldehyde is first formed, which passes into methyl glyoxal ; this in its 
turn is acted upon by ammonia and formaldehyde to give methyl 
glyoxaline : — 

Windaus finds that the reaction is not confined to glucose, but that the 
same methyl glyoxaline is yielded by mannose, fructose, sorbose, 
arabinose, xylose and rhamnose, or by the disaccharide lactose. 



CH,.C0.CH0 + 2NH, + HCHO- 11 ^CH 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 CARBOHYDRATES 



d-Glucosamine 

Glucosamine, or aminoglucose, is of interest as being the first well- 
defined carbohydrate compound isolated from an animal tissue (Ledder- 
hose, 1 878). It is obtained by boiling the shells of lobsters, particularly 
the claws, with concentrated hydrochloric acid. The glucosamine 
hydrochloride so formed is a colourless crystalline compound. Lobster 
shell consists of carbonate of lime and a substance termed chitin, which 
yields acetic acid and glucosamine on hydrolysis. Chitin is stated by 
Offer to be a monoacetyl diglucosamine ; quite recently Irvine has 
established the identity of the chitins derived from various invertebrate 
animal structures. He considers chitin to contain acetylamino glucose 
and amino glucose residues in the proportion of three to one, in agree- 
ment with the formula (C^H^o^iq^^^- 

Glucosamine was obtained by Winterstein from fungus cellulose ; 

indeed chitin seems to be the most important cell-wall material of the 

fungi. Glucosamine is a constituent of the mucins and mucoids. It 

has the formula : — 

H H OH H 
CHjOH . C . C . C . C . CHO 
OH OH H NHj 

which is more properly written in the pentaphane ring form. 

Glucosamine is prepared from the hydrochloride by decomposing 
it with diethylamine (Breuer) or sodium methoxide (Lobry de Bruyn). 
It derives special interest from the fact that it may be r^arded as a 
link between the carbohydrates and the a-hydroxyamino acids. The 
synthesis of glucosamine, by Fischer and Leuchs, which at the same 
time established its constitution, thus becomes of enhanced importance. 
By the combination of rf-arabinose and ammonium cyanide, or of d- 
arabinoseimine with hydrogen cyanide, rf-glucosaminic acid was obtained 
and its lactone reduced to glucosamine. Glucosamine forms a penta- 
acetyl derivative and also an oxime, semi-carbazone and phenyl 
hydrazone, but it cannot be converted into glucose, though it gives 
glucose phenyl osazone when hqated with phenyl hydrazine. Nitrous 
acid converts it into a compound (CgHj^Og), formerly regarded as a 
sugar, and termed chitose: this forms chitonic acid when oxidised. 
Glucosamine is often r^arded as a derivative of chitose, and termed 
chitosamine. 

Chitose was shown by Fischer and Andreae to be a hydrated 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 43 

furfurane derivative rather than a true sugar, formed by simultaneous 
elimination of the amino group and anhydride formation. It has the 
formula : — 

HO.CH— CH.OH 

(CH,0H).CH ch.cho 

\/ 

o 

Isomeric with glucosamine is isoglucosamine, obtained by Fischer by 
reducing phenyl glucosazone. This has the formula : — 

CH,(OH) . [CH(OH)], . CO . CH, . NH, 

Lobry de Bruyn has shown that glucosamine in aqueous solution 
changes to a substance which caii be obtained more readily by the 
action of alcoholic ammonia on fructose. This substance yields a 
pyrazine derivative on oxidation (Stolte), and its formation from 
glucosamine would appear to take place according to the equation : — 
aCeH„0BN + O - Cj.H^OsNj + 3H,0 

The product, for which the name " fructosazine " is suggested, has been 
shown to be 2, 5 - ditetrahydroxy butylpyrazine. 

But little is at present known of the amino derivatives of other 
carbohydrates. 

An isomeride of glucosamine has been obtained by Fischer by the 
following series of operations. /8-Pentacetyl glucose, when treated 
with anhydrous liquid hydrogen , bromide, forms dibromo-triacetyl 
glucose which reacts with methyl alcohol to give triacetyl /8-methyl 
glucoside bromohydrin. This is converted by ammonia at the ordinary 
temperature into amino /8-methyl glucoside from which the amino 
sugar is obtained on hydrolysis. The new compound reduces Fehling's 
solution but differs from glucosamine in a number of ways, the osazone 
which it yields with phenyl-hydrazine being different from phenyl- 
glucosazone. Judging from the production of an anhydro glucose from 
dibromo-triacetyl glucose (p. 12) the amino group in the new isomeride 
is attached to the carbon atom in the /3-position thus : — 

H H NH,H 
CH«OH . C . C . C . C . CHO 
OH OH H OH 

though the possibility of its replacing the primary alcohol group in the 
€-position must not be overlooked. 

Irvine has prepared an isomeric amino methyl glucoside from 
glucosamine and converted it into glucose, thus finally establishing 
the relationship between glucose and glucosamine. The conversion 
takes place through the following reactions: ^glucosamine hydro- 



Digitized by 



Google 



i ' 



44 CARBOHYDRATES 

chloride-^bromotriacetyl glucosamine hydrobromide-^triaoetyl amino 
methyl glucoside hydrobromide-^amino methyl glucoside hydrochloride. 
This last compound, like other derivatives of glucosamine, reacts 
abnormally with nitrous acid and does not yield methyl glucoside. 
On methylation by the silver oxide method dimethyl amino methyl 
glucoside is obtained from which the substituted amino group is expelled 
by heating with barium hydroxide. The product is further methylated 
and converted into tetramethyl methyl glucoside from which glucose 
results on removal of the methyl groups. 



Phosphoric Esters. 

The discovery of the rdle played by hexose phosphate in fermenta- 
tion lends considerable interest to the phosphoric esters of carbohydrates. 

The hexose phosphate C<,Hio04(P04H2)2 from glucose, mannose or 
fructose (see p. 74) is not precipitated by ammoniacal magnesium 
citrate mixture but the lead salt is precipitated by lead acetate. It 
can be purified by decomposition by hydrogen sulphide and repfecipita- 
tiort. With phenyl hydrazine an osazone is formed, one molecule of 
phosphoric acid being eliminated, which has the composition : — 

(H,P04)C,H^0H),(NHPh), 

The sodium, phenyl hydrazine and aniline salts have been characterised. 

Hexose phosphoric acid contains an active carboxyl group and two 
phosphoric acid groups, one of the latter being probably attached to 
the carbon atom adjacent to the carboxyl group since it is split off in 
the formation of the osazone. 

Neuberg has described phosphoric esters of glucose and sucrose 
prepared by the action of phosphorus oxychloride on the carbohydrates 
in presence of calcium carbonate or hydroxide. These have the com- 
position C^HnOg . O . POjCa and CuHjiOio. O . PO,Ca. Neither of 
them is fermented by yeast. On the other hand, the corresponding 
calcium fructose phosphate obtained by partly hydrolysing sucrose 
phosphate with dilute hydrochloric acid is stated to be readily fermented 
by yeast. It reduces Failing's solution. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 45 

Tannins. 

The tannins have long been regarded as glucosides, Strecker in 
1852 being the first to show that they contained glucose. His formula 
CjyHajOii for tannin corresponded with three molecules of gallic acid 
to one of glucose. 'Other observers have disputed the presence of 
glucose in tannin which often i^res simply as digallic acid in the 
older textbooks. Statements as to the amount of glucose obtained 
from tannin on hydrolysis vary very widely : this is due to the great 
difficulty experienced both in purifying the tannin and in separating 
the glucose formed. Fischer and Freudenbeig (1912) show that care- 
fully purified tannin )delds somewhat more than 8 per cent of glucose 
on hydroij^s. This proportion is too small for tannin to be a glucoside 
of the ordinary type, but it is suggested by Fischer and Freudenberg 
that it is an acyl derivative of glucose analogous to pentacetylglucose 
or pentabenzoylglucose. A pentadigalloylglucose, 

CH,(OX) . CH(OX) . CH . CH(OX) . CH(OX) . CH(OX) 
J o ' 

where 

X >^ * CO. CeH^OH), . O. CO. C8H,{0H), 

should contain 10*6 per cent, of glucose. It has the high molecular 
weight 1700. This formula is in agreement with what is known as 
to the composition, opticd activity, small acidity and the behaviour of 
tannin on hydrolysis. 

Proof, which is little short of absolute, of the correctness of this 
hypothesis is afforded by the synthesis by Fischer and Freudenbeig 
of acyl derivatives of glucose closely analogous to natural tannin. On 
shaking glucose with a chloroform solution of trimethylcarbonato 
galloylchloride in presence of quinoline an acyl derivative is formed 
from which,* on cautious hydrolysis with alkali, the methylcarbonato 
groups can be removed so that pentagalloylglucose is formed. The 
synthetic compound has all the properties of the tannins. Other 
phenolcarboxylic acids may be used for the condensation and methyl- 
glucoside or glycerol may be substituted for glucose. The way is thus 
opened for the synthesis of a variety of products of high molecular 
weight) amounting in the extreme case of derivatives of the disac- 
charides to several thousands. It is quite possible that such compounds 
may be present in animals. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER III. 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES. 



The general properties of the monosaccharides have been fully dealt 
with in the foregoing and exemplified in the case of glucose. In 
dealing with the remaining hexoses it is only necessary to recapitulate 
briefly their more important properties and any salient points of 
difference from glucose. 

Glucose and fructose are the only two of the monosaccharides which 
occur naturally as such. The others are found in nature as poly- 
merides, or in the form of alcohols, and are prepared by hydrolysis or 
oxidation. 

Fructose and sorbose are types of the ketohexoses, a group which 
has been much less investigated than the aldohexoses. Both fructose 
and sorbose have the ketonic oxygen attached to the o^carbon atom, 
but a number of other isomerides are possible in which the keto group 
is situated elsewhere in the molecule. The ketohexoses do not yield 
acids containing the same number of carbon atoms on oxidation, but 
the molecule breaks into two at the ketonic group. 

TABLE v.— THE MONOSACCHARIDES. 



Trioses. 




Tbtrosbs. 


Aldose 


Glyceric aldehyde 


Aldoses 


d' and /-Erythrose 


Kstou 


Dioxyacetone 




d' and Z-Threose 


f Pentoses. 


Mbtbylpbmtoses. 


:M4ous 


d- and /-Arabinose 


Aldoses 


Rhamnose 




d' and ^Xylo6e 




Fucose, Rhodeose 




Z-Ribo6e 




Chinovose 




/-Lyxose 








Hexoses. 






Aldaus 


Mannitol smes 




Dukitol series 




d- and /-Glucose 




d- and /-Galactose 




d" and l-Mannose 




d- and /-Talose 

i^Altrose 

<|.All08e 


Ketases 


Fructose 
Sorbose 




Tagatose 


Hbptosbs. 


OCTOSES. 


NONOSBS. 


Dbcose. 


Mannoheptose 


Mannooctose 


Mannononose 




Glttcoheptose 


Glucooctose 


Glucononose 


Qlucodecose 


Galactoheptose 


Galactooctose 







Digitized by 



Google 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 47 

Mannose. 

£jf-Mannose^ is widely distributed in nature in the form of an- 
hydride-like condensation products termed mannosans which are con- 
verted into mannose when hydrolysed by acids; it does not occur 
in more simple form. A convenient source for its preparation is the 
v^etable ivory nut Mannose is the true aldehyde of mannitol, and 
may be obtained from it by oxidation. It is of interest that it was 
first prepared by Fischer and Hirschberger in this manner, and only 
subsequently identified as a natural product It is very similar to 
^Aglucose in its general properties, exhibits muta-rotation, and forms 
the same phenyl osazone as glucose and fructose. Mannose is alto- 
gether remarkable in forming a sparingly soluble phenyl hydrazone, 
which enables it to be very easily identified. This hydrazone is pre- 
cipitated within a few minutes when phenyl hydrazine is added to a 
solution of mannose. 

Mannose forms an additive compound with hydrogen cyanide 
which, on hydrolysis, yields mannoheptonic acid Apparently one 
only of the two possible isomerides is formed. The mannoheptose 
obtained from this is very similar to mannose, and forms a sparingly 
soluble phenyl hydrazone. On reduction it yields the alcohol C^Hifij 
identical with the natural perseitol. 

Galactose. 

^Galactose occurs as a constituent of milk sugar and rafHnose, also 
in many gums and seaweeds as the polymeric form galactan ; its pre- 
sence in the form of a galactoside is rare, being confined to the 
saponins, xanthorhamnin and a few other natural glucosides. Lippmann 
records the appearance of galactose as a crystalline efflorescence re- 
sembling hoar frost on ivy berries following a sharp frost, the first after 
a late dry autumn. Both isomeric forms of galactose occur naturally : 
Winterstdn found ^-^alactose in Chagnal gum, Tollens obtained it 
from Japanese Nori. It resembles glucose in properties ; characteristic 
is the formation of mucic acid on oxidation with nitric acid, and this 
may be used for its identification. By the action of alkalis it is trans- 
formed into ^^talose and rf-tagatose. It is fermented by some yeasts, 
but not by all those which ferment glucose ; a fact which has been 
taken as indicating that a special galacto-zymase is required for the 
fermentation. 

o-Methyl galactoside is not hydrolysed by enzymes; /8-methyl 
^For the configuration fonnula, see Table II., p. 25. 



/ 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 CARBOHYDRATES 

galactoside is attacked, like milk sugar, by the lactase of kephir, by 
the lactase present in some yeasts, and by a lactase present in aa 
aqueous extract of almonds (see Chapter V.). 

Under abnormal conditions galactose is formed in die sugar beet^ 
and appears in combination with sucrose as the trisaccfaaride, raffinose. 
The quantity of raffinose is increased abnormally by disturbances of 
growth, such as those occasioned by sudden frost Under these con- 
ditions the galactans are supposed to undergo hydrolysis and form 
galactose. Apparently the plant, when confronted with galactose^ 
utilises it first to form a disaccharide, imelibiose, composed of glucose 
and galactose, and (hen makes use of the glucose half in this di- 
saccharide, according to its fixed habit, by combining it with fructose^ 
with the result that a compound carbohydrate containing all three 
simple hexoses is formed. 

Galactose is the sugar of the brain whence it was isolated and 
described under the name cerebrose by Thudichum. It is a con- 
stituent of the cerebrosides known as phrenosin and kerasin. 

Fructose. 

ffl^Fructose or JLaevulose, discovered by Dubrunfaut in 1847, occurs 
together with glucose in the juices of fruits, etc., the mixture being 
often termed fruit sugar or invert sugar. Combined with glucose it 
occurs as cane sugar, raffinose, etc. It is a constituent of alliin, the 
glucoside pf garlic and of some saponins. The polysaccharide inulin 
yields fructose alone when h3^rolysed. Fructose is a ketohexose of the 
following constitution : — 

CH, . OH 



QO^ 



HOC CH 

HOCH l\ HO^I 

jjioH ch^ohmJ ch.ch,oh 

HO^X / 

:h,oh 

Fischer formula. y-Oxide fonnula. 



HCC 



Fructose crystallises less easily than glucose, and its derivatives 
are also difficult to crystallise. It is much sweeter than glucose. It 
exhibits muta-rotation,Tind, like glucose, exists in solution presumably 
as an equilibrated mixture of stereoisomeric forms. It is remarkable 
for the very large change produced in the specific rotatory power by 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 49 

changes of temperature. The rotatory power becomes less n^fative 
as the temperature is increased, and at 87*3'' C. it is equal and opposite 
to that of glucose. 

Fructose shows a number of characteristic reactions. Hydrogen 
broitiide interacts with fhicjose in ethereal solution to form bromo- 

CH : C(CHjBr)v 
methy Ifurfuraldehyde I j>0, a substance which crystallises in 

golden yellow rhombic prisms; the ethereal liquid is coloured an 
intense purple red (Fenton and Gostling). A /8-oxy-7-methy Ifurfural- 
dehyde is produced on heating concentrated solutions of fructose under 
pressure, preferably with oxalic acid. 

On prolonged boiling with dilute mineral acids laevulinic acid, 
CHj . CO . CH2 . CHg . COgH, is formed together with formic acid and 
humus substances. 

When oxidised by means of mercuric oxide fructose forms 
glycollic acid, CH2(OH) . COgH, and trihydroxybutyric acid, 
CHgOH . (CH . OH)2 . COjH. It is not acted upon by bromine water 
of Ibw concentration : aldoses can be distinguished from ketoses by 
means of this reaction. Mannitol and sorbitol are formed on reduction 
with sodium amalgam. 

By the action of methyl alcohol and hydrogen chloride on fructose 
a syrup is obtained which probably represents a mixture of methyl 
fructosides. This syrup is partially hydrolysed by yeast extract, but, 
inasmuch as Pottevin ihas shown that it is not hydrolysed by 5. ocUh- 
sporus, Mucor ntucedo and other ferments which attack cane sugar and 
maltose, the hydrolysis is presumably caused by an enzyme other 
than invertase or maltase»(see Chapter IV.). 

Fructose, like glucose, forms an additive compound with hydrogen 
cyanide which yields fructose carboxylic acid on hydrolysis ; this, when 
boiled with hydriodic acid, is converted into methyl butylacetic acid, 
C4Hg . CHMe . CO2H. This reaction and the behaviour on oxidation 
establish the formula of fructose. 

Fructose forms the same osazone as glucose; it also forms 
osazones with some disubstituted phenyl hydrazines, the primary 
CH2(OH) group being more easily oxidised by these than the 
secondary CH(OH) group in glucose. The methyl phenylosazone is 
characteristic of fructose. 

Glucose and its isomerides combine with acetone in presence of 
hydrogen chloride forming mono- and diacetone derivatives of a gluco- 
sidic nature since they no longer reduce Fehling's solution. Enzymes 
are entirely without action on them. The acetone compounds of 

4 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 CARBOHYDRATES 

fructose have been investigated by Irvine who has proved the existence 
of two isomeric fructose monoacetones 

yO . CH, CHj . OH 




C-Ov 


HOCH /^ 




CH^OH 
B 



CHjOH 
A 

having probably the formulae A and B, each of which will exist in a and 
fi forms. From A a diacetone is formed, but B is not prone to further 

condensation : this is consistent with the view that the acetone ^CMej 

residue replaces the hydrogen atom of two adjacent hydroxyl groups 
which need not, however, be on the same side of the formula as re- 
presented on a plane surface. 

The expressions as and trans are used by Irvine to distinguish be- 
tween the linkage between hydroxyl groups on the same or on opposite 
sides of the molecule. In fructose diacetone both types are present 



CHjOH.CH O . H ^C<' 



trans 

It is not therefore surprising that the two acetone groups are 
eliminated at different rates on hydrolysis, fructose cis monoacetone 
being formed as an intermediate product. In triacetone mannitol there 
is evidence that the acetone groups are in order ^ans, trans, as and di- 
and monoacetone compounds are formed in turn on cautious hydrolysis. 
The most stable acetone residue is attached to a terminal primary 
alcohol group. 

It is probable that glucose and fructose play distinct parts in meta- 
bolism. Brown and Morris have shown that glucose is mainly con- 
cerned in respiration ; fructose appears to take part more particularly 
in the elaboration of tissue since it is far less stable than glucose. 

In this connection the experiments of Lindet are of particular in- 
terest. Dealing more particularly with yeasts and moulds he adduces 
strong experimental evidence to prove that fructose is specially con- 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 51 

cemed in tissue formation, glucose being more readily used for fermen- 
tation and respiration. Yeasts and moulds, for equal weights of sugar 
consumed, show greater growth in fructose and they consume glucose 
preferentially from invert sugar. 

It is stated also that fructose is sometimes found to be assimilated 
by diabetics when glucose is inadmissible. 



Sorbose. 

Sorbose was discovered by Pelouze in 1852 and was isolated from %^ 
the juice of mountain ash berries which had been exposed to the air for 
many months. These berries contain the alcohol sorbitol, which, under 
the influence of an oxidising organism, shown by Emmerling to be 
identical with the bacterium xylinum of Adrian Brown, is oxidised to 
sorbose The brilliant researches of Bertrand have given a complete 
explanation of the transformation, and have rendered the preparation 
of sorbose a relatively simple matter. Sorbose is a ketose having the 
formula : — 

CH,OH 

CO 
HOCH 

HCOH 
HOCH 

CH.OH 

It has a marked crystallising power, is not fermentable, and generally 
behaves as fructose ; on reduction it yields sorbitol. Lobry de Bruyn 
has shown that under the influence of alkali Sorbose is converted 
into ^^^lose, ^^idose and /-galactose, and so affords a connecting-link 
between hexoses of the mannitol and dulcitol series. This reaction is 
of importance, as the direct synthesis of a hexose of the dulcitol series 
has not been achieved. 



4* 

/Google 



Digitized by^ 



52 CARBOHYDRATES 



The Pentoses C6H,.oO«. 

Two pentoses, Aarabinose and /-xylose/ are widely distributed in the 
v^etable kingdom as polysaccharides of high molecular weight, the so- 
called pentosans ; they also occur in complex glucosides, but are never 
found as the simple sugars. Xylose is found in straw, oat hulls and in 
most woods, arabinose in gums ; it is conveniently prepared from cherry 
gum or gum arabic The prefix /denotes that they are related stereo* 
chemically to the laevoglucose series ; actually they aie both dextro-rota- 
' tory. The ^^isomeride of arabinose can be obtained synthetically from 
glucose by the degradation methods indicated in the previous chapter. 
Recently it has been found naturally as a constituent of the glucoside 
barbaloin, and described under the name aloinose (lAger). 

In the animal kingdom pentoses are a constituent of the nucleopro- 
teins and nucleic acids. The nature of this pentose has been a subject of 
<5ontroversy ; it is now r^arded as ^ribose. Nucleic acid contains a 
glucoside guanosin (Levene and Jacobs) which is hydrolysed to guanine 
and ^ribose, and is identical with vemin (Schulze) found in lupins and 
also in molasses (Andrlik). 

Pentose appears as an abnormal product in urine in therare disease 
pentosuria — according to Neuberg this is inactive ^-arabinose (see 
Garrod, Inborn Errors of Metabolism). 

j But little is known of the mechanism of the formation of pentoses 
^in plants ; they may be formed in the same manner as the hexoses, but 
independently of these, or they may be degradation products of the 
hexoses (cp. p. 28). Xylose and arabinose serve as nutrient to 
yeast and bacteria, but higher plants have no power of utilising them. 
i The pentosans are resistant towards alkali and require prolonged 
I heating with mineral acids to effect hydrolysis. They are comparable 
j with starch and cellulose and contain as a rule both C^ and C^ carbo- 
! hydrates. No enzymes are known as yet which hydrolyse them ; in- 
asmuch as they are present essentially as skeletal, and not as food 
products in the plants, it is to be expected that they will be outside 
the range of the ordinary plant enzymes. 

Their origin and function in plants has been studied recently by 

^ See footnote p. 27. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 



53 



Ravenna, who concludes that the simple sugars more than the complex 
carbohydrates exert a preponderating influence on their formation. 
They can act as a reserve material when the plant has exhausted the 
more readily utilisable food stuffs. In leaves the pentosans increase 
in amount during the day, decrease during the night They increase 
when the leaves are supplied widi glucose, diminish when the action 
of the chlorophyll is prevented and carbohydrate nutriment is 
absent 

The eight possible aldopentoses are given in the following table, 
together with their configuration formulae. The table also contains the 
remaining lower members of the group of monosaccharides, w>., 4 te- 
troses and 2 trioses. 



CNO 



CH,OH 
I-Ribote. 



CHO 

H iOH 
HO H 
HO H 

CHjOH 
/-Axabtnow. 



CHO 
HOIH 

ho|h 

CHjOH 
/-Erytfaroae. 







TABLE VI. 






Aldopento8e6. 


CHO 


CHO 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


CH.0H 


CHjOH 


d-RlbOM. 


i-XyloM. 


CHO 


CHO 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


Ch^oh 


CHjOH 


/•Lyxow 


^ArabinOM. 


UnkQOwn. 






ALDOTBTRO8BS. 


CHO 


CHO 


HIOH 


H IOH 


HIOH 


HOI H 


CHjOH 


CHjOH 




(f-Threose 






Ui 


iknown. 



CHO 



HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


CH^OH 


<;-Xylo8e. 


CHO 


HO H 


HO H 


H OH 


CH,aH 


J-Lyjcote. 


CHO 


HO H 


H OH 


CHaOH 


^Threo6e. 



ALDOTKI08B8. 

CHO CHO 

HCOH HOCH 

CHjOH CHjOH 

d- and /-Glycerose. 

Although belonging to the /-series, the natural pentoses are in 
reality closely related to the natural hexoses. As the formulae below 
show, the arrangement of the groups on the upper four carbon atoms 
is the same in each case in galactose and arabinose, and the same also 
in glucose as it is in xylose : — 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 CARBOHYDRATES 



CHO 
HCOH 
HOCH 
HCOH 

CH,OH 

/-XyloM. 


CHO 

HCOH 

HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CHjOH 
^Glucose. 


CHO 
HCOH 


CHO 
HCOH 

HOCH 

HOCH 

HCOH 

CH,OH 
<i-Galact06e. 


HOCH 
HOCH 
CH,OH 

^Arabinose. 



In this connection, it is not without interest that some polysaccharides 
yield both xylose and glucose on hydrolysis, whilst arabinose and ga- 
lactose occur together in many gums. 

When the cyanohydrin synthesis is applied to natural /-arabinose a 
mixture of two nitriles is obtained, and the corresponding acids, when 
reduced, give rise to /-glucose and /-mannose ; similarly, /-xylose can 
be converted into /-^lose and /-idose. ^^Glucose, when d^raded by 
the methods of Ruff or Wohl, gives ^-^rabinose ; ^^alactose forms 
rf-lyxose. The carbon atom which requires to be eliminated in order 
that glucose may give rise to the natural /-xylose, a transformation 
which there is reason to think may take place in the plant, is not the 
one affected by the processes described, but is situated at the extreme 
end of the chain. No chemical means of effectii^ this change has as 
yet been discovered. 

Arabinose and xylose show the usual aldose reactions. They are 
not fermented by yeasts. Arabinose forms a characteristic, almost 
insoluble, diphenyl hydrazone. Xylose is best recognised by conver- 
sion into xylonic acid, and isolation of this as the cadmium bromide 
double salt. 

Pentoses are determined quantitatively by distillation with hydro- 
chloric acid when furfuraldehyde is formed This is coupled with phloro 
glucinol, and the condensation product isolated and weighed. The 
colour reactions obtained on heating with orcinol or phloroglucinol and 
hydrochloric acid are very characteristic, and frequently used for detect- 
ing the pentoses. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 



55 



The Methyl Pentoses- 

Several representatives of this class of carbohydrates have been 
discovered latterly in plants. In them, one of the hydrogen groups of 
the primary alcohol is replaced by methyl. They show most of the 
reactions characteristic of the pentoses, but form methyl furfuraldehyde 
on distillation with acids. 

Their biochemical significance is not yet understood ; they are not 
fermented by yeasts. The configuration of most of them has been 
established by the ordinary methods with the exception of the relative 
positions of the groups attached to the methylated carbon atom which 
remain uncertain. 

The configuration formulae of the methyl pentoses, so far as at 
present known, are given in the following table : — 



CHO 



CHO 



CHO 



CHO 



H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH, 


CH, 


CH, 


CH, 


Rhamnose. 


Unknown. 


Epirhamnose. 


Isorhodeose. 


CHO 


CHO 


CHO 


CHO 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH, 


CH. 


CH, 


CH, 


F« 


cose. 


Rh 


odeose. 


Epir 


bodeose. 


Unl 


cnown. 



Rhamnose CgHjjOg is a constituent of many glucosides, the best 
known of which are quercitrin and xanthorhamnin, the colouring 
matter of Persian berries. It occurs particularly in combination with 
flavone derivatives. 

Rhamnose crystallises with a molecule of water the hydrate having 
the composition C^Hi^Og ; in consequence it was regarded at one time 
as belonging to the hexahydric alcohols and termed " isodulcitol ". 

Rhamnose forms a phenyl osazone and other derivatives similar to 
those of glucose. It exists in a and /9 forms which exhibit muta-rotation. 
By the cyanohydrin reaction two rhamnohexonic acids are formed, one 
of which yields mucic acid when oxidised. The synthesis has been 
extended to the preparation of rhamnohexose and rhamnoheptose* 
Methyl rhamnoside is not hydrolysed by enzymes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



56 CARBOHYDRATES 

In view of the relationship in coniigruration of rhamnose to /-man- 
nose or /-gulose it must be regarded as Arhamnose ; it is die methyl 
derivative of the unknown /-lyxose. 

Epi- or isorhamnose was obtained by Fischer by heating rhamnonic 
acid with pyridine and reduction of the isorhamnonic acid with sodium 
amalgam. It is the optical antipode of isorhodeose one of the products 
of hydrolysis of pui^c acid, the amorphous constituent of the glucoside 
convolvulin (VotoXek). The crystalline constituent of tliis glucoside, con- 
volvulinic acid, is hydrolysed to glucose, rhamnose and rhadeose. This 
latter is the optical antipode olfucose which as the pol}m:ieride fucosan is a 
component of the cell wall of many seaweeds. Votocdc has converted 
rhodeose into epirhodeose in the ordinary manner. These dbmpounds 
and their derivatives have been fully described The configuration of 
chinovose, known only in the glucoside chinovin, has not yet been 
established ; other methyl pentoses have been obtained by the hydrolysis 
of glucosides, which may prove to be new compounds. 

Apiose. 

Mention may be made of an altogether abnormal sugar, termed 
apiose, on account of its presence in the glucoside apiin. This con- 
tains a branched chain of carbon atoms, having the formula : — 

CH,OH\ 

)C(0H) . CH(OH) . CHO 
CHjOH/ 

It is not fermentable, bromine oxidises it to apionic acid. When 
reduced by hydrogen iodide and phosphorus, wovaleric acid is obtained 
Apiin contains the disaccharide glucoapiose; when hydrolysed by 
dilute mineral acids apiose and glucoapigenin are formed. 

Digitoxose and Digitalose. 

These are obtained on hydrolysis of the corresponding glucosides 
of digitalis. Kiliani has shown digitoxose C^^O^ to be a reduced 
methyl pentose having the following formula: — 

CHj . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH, . CHO 

Digitalose C7H14O5 is perhaps a reduced methyl hexose. Both com- 
pounds require further investigation. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 57 



The Carbohydrate Alcohols. 

Several of the carbohydrate alcohols are widely distributed in plants. 
They crystallise well and are soluble in water. On cautious oxidation 
they give in turn a reducing sugar, monobasic acid and dibasic acid. 
They are not fermentable though attacked by a variety of bacteria and 
moulds. 

OH OH 
Erythritol.—Cil^OH).C — C . CHj(OH) is found in many 
H H 

algae and mosses, particularly Roccella tinctoria^ where it is present as 
erythrin Cjo^mOioa ^ diorsellinate of erythritol ; it is optically inactive 
and has a sweet taste. 

OH OH OH 
Adonitol.—CHJiOH) . C — C — C . CHj(OH) corresponds 
H H H 

to /-ribose from which it is obtained on reduction ; it is the only natur- 
ally occurring pentose alcohol, and is found in Adonis vemalis. 

The hexose alcohols are widely distributed in plants where they 
act as reserve materials. Their properties have been already described 

(p. 33). 

A-Mannitol has been found in manna, in the sap of the larch, 
etc., in leaves, in fruits, and particularly in fungi where it exceeds glucose 
in quantity or even replaces it. A glucoside clavicepsin present in the 
ergot of rye yields glucose and mannitol when hydrolysed (Marino- 
Zirco and Pasquero). Mannitol is optically inactive in water, but 
becomes dextro-rotatory on the addition of borax, the mixture being 
acid. In alkaline solution it becomes laevo-rotatory. 

^'Sorbitol is present in ripe mountain ash berries from which it 
can be prepared without difficulty and in the fruits of most of the 
Rosacea; it is probably also present in the leaves. 

dJdttol is also present in mountain ash berries. 

d'Dulcitol occurs particularly among the Scrophulariacea, 

Two heptose alcohols, CyHj^Oy, are known, e.g.y perseitol, occurring 
in Persea gratissima, and volemitol, discovered in Lactarius voUmus^ 
and since identified in the rhizomes of some species of primula. 
Perseitol is the alcohol corresponding to mannoheptose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 



CARBOHYDRATES 



An octitol has been isolated from the mother liquors of the sorbitol 
preparation from the fruit of some of the Rosacea. 

These alcohols are similar in properties to mannitol. Their physical 
constants are collected in Table VI I. : — 



TABLE VIL 



AlcoboL 


Meltinc-poittt. 


Optical 

WD. 


Ervthritol . 
Adonitol . 
Mannitol . 
Duldtol 
Sorbitol 
Peradtol . 
Volemitol . 






I26« 

I02* 
IXO» 

i8o* 
154' 


inactive 
inactive 
+ a2*5' 
inactive 
+ ia-3' 

+ r^ 



Starting from glucose, Philippe has synthesised the higher alcohols 
of this series, obtaining tiiem by reduction of the corresponding aldoses. 
o-Glucoheptitol is optically inactive and therefore symmetrically con- 
structed. iS-Glucoheptitol has slight optical activity, the same applies 
to (oa)-gluco-octitol, to (aaa)-glucononitol and to (aaaa)-glucodecitol, 
which are therefore all asymmetric in conjuration. They are 
crystalline substances resembling mannitol in their properties. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER IV. 



THE DISACCHARIDES. 



The disaccbarides are carbohydrates containing twelve carbon atoms 
and consist of two simple six-carbon atom residues united through an 
oxj^en atom. They are thus analogous to the simple glucosides, and 
when acted upon by hydrolytic agents — acid or enzymes — ^they break 
down with the addition of a molecule of water into their constituent 
simpler hexoses, which may be either aldoses or ketoses : — 

Ca,H«0„ + H,0 = CeH„Oe + C,H„Oe 

One of the constituent hexoses functions in the same manner as 
glucose does in the methyl glucosides : the aldehydic or ketonic group 
of the second hexose may remain functional or it may disappear. In 
the former case the disaccharide reduces cupric salts, forms an osazone, 
and exhibits muta-rotation behaving just as glucose does ; in the latter 
all these properties are absent. Accordingly the disaccbarides are 
classified under two types. 

The following table contains the better-known disaccbarides with 
their component hexoses and optical rotatory power. Some trisac- 
charides are also included ; also the tetrasaccharide, stachyose : — 



>/' 



TABLE Vni. 
D18ACCHARIDBS. 



Sngar. 


Components. 


Rotatory Power. 


Type 


1. —Aldehyde Group Potentially Functional. 




Maltose 


Glucose-a-glucoside 


+ 138* 




Glucose-/3-glucoside 


? 


GentiobioBe 


Glucose-/3-glucoside 


+ 9'^ 


Cellobiose 


Glucose-^-glucoside 


+ 34-6* 


Lactose 


Glucose- j8-galactoside 


+ 52-5^ 


Isolactose 


Glucose-ga lactoside 


? 


MeUbiose 


Glucose-galactoside 


•*"^^C 


Tuianose 


Glucose and fructose 
Type 2.— No Reducing Properties, 


+ 71-8* 


Sucrose 


Glucose and fructose 


+ 66-5« 


Trehalose 


Glucose and glucose 


+ 197^ 



59 



Digitized by 



Google 



6o 



CARBOHYDRATES 

TABLE VIII. {contiuu*tl). 



Sugar. 


Compooefits. 


Rotatory Power. 


Type I. 
Mannotriose 
Rhamninoie 

Ramnose 

Gentianose 

Melicitose 

Type a. 
Stachyose 


Trisaccharidbs. 

Glucose + galactose + galactose 
Glucose + rhamnose + rhamnose 

Galactose + glucose + fructose 
Glucose + glucose + fructose 
Glucose + glucose + fructose 

Tbtrasaccharxde. 

Fructose + glucose + galactose + galactose 


+ i67*» 
- 41** 

+ 104° 
+ 33^ 

+ 148' 



The disaccharides of type i form sparingly soluble phenyl osazones, 
which are difficult to purify, similar to one another and do not show 
sharp melting-points as they decompose at the melting-point ; more- 
over, both melting-point and crystalline form are greatly altered by 
small quantities of impurities. The hydrazones, even those prepared 
from asymmetrically disubstituted phenyl hydrazines, are too soluble, 
as a rule, to be used for the isolation of disaccharides from aqueous 
solutions. 

The difficulty attending research in this group lies in the fact that 
no really characteristic derivatives of the disaccharides, by means of 
which they can be isolated and identified with certainty, are known, 
and partly for this reason but little progress has been made in the 
direction of their synthesis. 

Maltose, lactose and melibiose, which reduce Fehling's solution, 
form hydrazones and osazones with phenyl hydrazine and combine 
with hydrogen cyanide, contain, like glucose, an aldehyde group or its 
equivalent Since they all show muta-rotation, and exist in two 
modifications, there is no doubt that, like glucose, they possess a closed- 
ring structure rather than a free aldehyde group. In solution they 
exist as an equilibrated mixture of dynamic isomerides. Both halves 
of the molecule thus possess a 7-oxidic structure, one section only re- 
taining the aldehyde group potentially functional. 

Interest in the configuration of the disaccharides centres round three 
main points : — 

(i) The nature of the component hexoses. 

(2) Whether they represent a- or /3-glucosides. 

(3) Which hydroxyl group is concerned in the attachment of the 

two hexose residues ? 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE DISACCHARIDES 6i 

The solution of the first of these problems is a^simple matter. The 
second question has been answered in two ways : firstly, by studying 
the behaviour of the sugar towards maltase and emulsin — if hydrolysed 
by the former it is an o-glucoside, if by the latter a )9-glucoside ; secondly, 
by studying the optical behaviour of the glucose immediately produced, 
on hydrolysing the sugar with an enzyme, towards a drop of alkali — 
downward muta-rotation classes it as a-glucose, upward muta-rotation 
indicates the presence of /3-glucose. The third question has not yet 
been satisfactorily solved ; so far it has been only possible to show for 
maltose and lactose that certain groups are not^ concerned in the 
junction. 

Assuming the primary alcohol group to be concerned in the attach- 
ment of the two hexose residues four isomeric diglucoses with reducing 
properties are possible. The attachment of the two glucoses may be 
either a or fiy and the free aldose group will exist in a and fi modifica- 
tions. Maltose or lactose in solution represent, like glucose, an 
equilibrated mixture of two isomerides : tihe solid disaccharides cor- 
respond to more or less pure single substances. Three fiirther isomerides 
are conceivable of the non-reducing diglucose according as two or 
glucoses, two /8-glucoses or an a- and a /3-glucose are linked together. 
These three disaccharides will be single substances either as solid or 
in solution, and they should crystallise more freely than maltose. 

In the following pages the individual disaccharides are briefly dealt 
with. The problems connected with their hydrolysis and synthesis are 
deferred to Chapter VI. 

Sucrose 

Sucrose or cane sugar, industrially the most importantof the sugars, \/ 
is widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, where it functions almost 
entirely as a reserve material. In contrast to most of the sugars, it 
crystallises exceedingly well : this is almost certainly due to the fact 
that a mixture of isomerides is not present in solution. It is very 
soluble in water, and has a much sweeter taste than glucose, but is 
not so sweet as invert sugar. 

Cane sugar does not reduce Fehling's solution or exhibit muta-rota- 
tion, and it lacks both aldehydic and ketonic properties. Very charac- 
teristic is the behaviour towards mineral acids which hydrolyse it to 
glucose and fructose. Sucrose is dextro-rotatory, but, since fructose 
is more laevo-rotatoty than glucose is dextro-rotatory, the products of 
hydrolysis rotate polarised light in the opposite sense to cane sugar. 
The process is hence termed inversion, and the product invert sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 CARBOHYDRATES 

The like change is brought about by an enzyme present in yeasts, 
moulds, in many plants, also in bees and other animals, and termed 
invertase or sucrase. Cane sugar is fermented by yeasts only after 
previous inversion with the invertase of the yeast Accordingly it is 
not fermented by yeasts which do not contain invertase, e,g.^ S. 
octosporus. 

Sucrose forms no compounds with phenyl hydrazine, and is stable 
towards alkali : this is in marked contrast to the behaviour of the 
aldoses and ketoses. Sucrose will withstand heating in alkaline solution 
at temperatures up to 1 30"* without appreciable decomposition. It also 
does not give rise to glucosidic derivatives. It contains eight hydroxyl 
groups, as evidenced by the formation of an octa-^icetate and an octa- 
methyl derivative. 

It is not easy to ascribe a constitutional formula to cane sugar 
which is entirely satisfactory. Fischer's formula, which is a modifica- 
tion of the earlier one of Tollens, pictures it at one and the same time 
as a glucoside and a fructoside. The glucose and fructose units are 
joined so as to destroy both aldehyde and ketone groups and give a 
neutral product : 



CH,(OH) . C . (CH . OH), . CH . CH,(OH) Fructose residae 



</ 



CH . (CH . OH), . CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) Glucose residue 



The observations of O'SuUivan and Tompson showed that a glucose 
of high positive rotatory power is at first produced on hydrolysis, i>., 
cane sugar is a derivative of a-^lucose. Yet, inasmuch as it is not 
attacked by maltase, which acts on all simple a-^lucosides, it cannot 
well belong to their class. Moreover, since Pottevin has shown that 
the simple methyl fructoside is not hydrolysed by the enzymes which 
attack sucrose, it must be supposed that cane sugar is not a simple 
fructoside. The extraordinary instability of sucrose in presence of 
acids also differs markedly from the behaviour of the simple glucosides. 
Invertase is remarkably active in hydrolysing sucrose. Its action seems 
to be controlled and inhibited by both glucose and fructose, and ap- 
parently the enzyme is so constituted that it can adapt itself to both 
sections of the biose. The question is further discussed in Chapter VI. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE DISACCHARIDES 63 

Trehalose. 

Trehalose, which occurs widely distributed in fungi, is composed of 
two glucose molecules fused together, so that both aldehydic groups 
have disappeared: — 

CKWOH) . CH(OH) . (iH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . (iHy 
CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH/ 



This structure is indicated by the fact that it does not reduce Fehling's 
solution, or form a phenyl osazone or exhibit muta-rotation. It is 
not affected by the enzymes maltase, invertase, emulsin or diastase, but 
is hydrolysed by a special enzyme named trehalase, which is contained 
in certain fungi and in many species of yeast. Trehalase is conveni- 
ently obtained from Aspergillus niger. According to Winterstein 
trehalose is only hydrolysed by acids with considerable difficulty, and 
contrasts markedly in this respect with sucrose. 

Apparently trehalose replaces sucrose in those plants (fungi) which 
contain no chlorophyll and do not manufacture starch. The quantity 
of trehalose is a maximum just before the formation of spores. When 
the fungi are picked the trehalose is rapidly converted into mannitol, 
being hydrolysed by its enzyme to glucose, which is in some way 
then reduced. To obtain it, the fungi must be extracted with boiling 
solvents, so as to kill the enzyme, within two or three hours after 
gathering. 

Maltose. 

A sugar was first isolated from the products of hydrolysis of starch 
by De Saussure in 1819, but it was not until 1847 that this new sugar 
was further examined by Dubrunfaut and named maltose. This dis- 
covery seems to have lapsed into comparative oblivion until the sugar 
was rediscovered by CSuUivan in 1872. Maltose is prepared by the 
action of diastase on starch, the only other product of the change being 
dextria It crystallises in minute needles, has a high dextro-rotatory 
power and exhibits upward muta-rotation, <>., the rotatory power when 
the disaccharide is first dissolved is smaller than the equilibrium value. 

Maltose reduces Fehling's solution, forms a phenyl osazone, and 
shows many other of the properties of glucose 

When hydrolysed by acids two molecules of glucose are formed. 
It is very much more resistant to acid hydrolysis than cane sugar. 

The enzymes diastase, invertase, lactase and emulsin are without 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 CARBOHYDRATES 

action, maltase alone of all the known enzymes being able to effect 
hydrolysis. Maltose is fermented only by those yeasts which contain 
maltase, and then not until inversion has been brought about by the 
enzyme. In view of the behaviour of maltose towards maltase, it is 
considered to be a glucose-o-glucoside, since it is only a-glucosides 
which are hydrolysed by maltase ; and in confirmation of this view 
o-glucose has been proved to be formed initially on hydrolysis. 

Maltose yields, on oxidation with bromine, an acid containing the 
same number of carbon atoms, which is termed maltobionic acid ; this 
is hydrolysed to glucose and gluconic acid by mineral acids. Maltose 
combines with hydrogen cj^anide, forming a compound which, on 
hydrolysis, gives maltose carboxylic acid, and is hydrolysed by mineral 
acids to glucose and glucoheptonic acid. Maltose must contain eight 
hydroxyl groups, as it gives an octa-acetyl derivative when acetylated. 
The behaviour of maltose is in accord with the constitutional formulae 
below. As already stated, it is not known which carbon atom is con- 
cerned in the attachment of the two sugar residues. Provisionally, the 
terminal carbon atom is so represented (see Chapter VI.) : — 

CH,{OH) . CH{OH) . CH . [CH . OHl . CH— O . CH, . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . OH], . CH^ (OH) 



Maltose forms a glucoside analogous to methyl glucoside, but the 
direct condensation with methyl alcohol in presence of acid is not 
possible, as the disaccharide becomes hydrolysed during the operation. 
/8-Methyl maltoside has been prepared from acetochloro maltose, 
obtained by the action of hydrogen chloride on maltose octa-^icetate. 
Acetochloro maltose interacts with methyl alcohol in presence of silver 
carbonate, forming hepta-acetyl methyl maltoside, which is converted 
into methyl maltoside on hydrolysis with baryta. The behaviour of 
this maltoside towards enzymes is interesting. Maltase hydrolyses it 
at the a-junction, forming glucose and /8-methyl glucoside; emulsin 
attacks only the /S-junction, forming maltose and methyl alcohol. The 
maltoside is accordingly /8-methyl glucose-o-glucoside. 

The conversion of maltose octa-acetate into /8-methyl maltoside 
fixes it as a /8-derivative, and since this acetate is the main product of 
the acetylation of solid maltose it is probable that maltose belongs to 
the /8-series. The rotatory power of crystalline maltose, unlike that 
of glucose, increases in solution. According to Hudson's rule mal- 
tose is a /3-compound (p. 26). 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE DISACCHARIDES 65 

Isomaltose. 

Isomaltose is the name given by Fischer to the disaccharide ob- 
tained by him by the condensing action of strong acids on glucose. 
It was characterised only by means of the phenyl osazone and the fact 
that it is not fermented by yeast. Products similar to isomaltose have 
been repeatedly described as obtained in the hydrolysis of starch, but, 
failing any characteristic derivative, definite proof of its presence in 
such cases is lacking. Isomaltose is probably identical with the di- 
saccharide obtained by Croft Hill by the synthetic action of maltase 
on glucose (see Chapter VI.) which he has termed revertose. E. F. 
Armstrong has shown that isomaltose is hydrolysed by emulsin, but 
not by invertase or maltase, and considers the isomaltose obtained by 
means of acids or enzymes to be the same in each case. The be- 
haviour towards emulsin and maltase suggests that it is probabl3r 
glucose /8-glucoside. 

Gentiobiose. 

Gentiobiose is closely allied to maltose and isomaltose. It is 
found in the form of a trisaccharide termed gentianose present in the 
roots of various species Of gentians ; when partially hydrolysed either 
by means of invertase or dilute acids, this yields fructose and gen- 
tiobiose. Gentiobiose forms a phenyl osazone, m.-p. 142**, shows 
muta-rotation, and is hydrolysed by emulsin : it is supposed to be a 
)8-^lucoside. 

Cellobiose (Cellose). 

Cellulose (filter paper), when acetylated under suitable conditions 
(Skraup), forms an octa-acetyl disaccharide, among other products, from 
which the corresponding sugar termed cellobiose is obtained on hy- 
drolysis with alkali. The cellobiose reduces Fehling's solution, and 
forms a phenyl osazone and osone in the same way as maltose. Fischer 
has shown that it is hydrolysed by emulsin, and it is therefore pre- 
sumably a /8-glucoside. He points out, however, that, inasmuch as 
emulsin is known to be a mixture of enzymes, it is not certain that 
the same enzyme which hydrolyses /8-methyl glucoside also resolves 
isomaltose, gentiobiose and cellobiose (see also p. 105). 

Cellobiose is not affected by the enzymes of yeast, but is slowly 
hydrolysed by Aspergillus fiiger or by kephir lactase. Bertrand and 
Compton have established the individuality of cellase, the enzyme 
acting on cellobiose. Cellase and emulsin occur together in plants in 
variable proportions. Acetochloro, acetobromo and acetoiodo cello- 
bioses have been prepared, also the tetradeca derivative of a tetrasac- 

S 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 CARBOHYDRATES 

charida Cellobiose behaves exactly like lactose. Two octa-acetates are 
known; the /3-isomeride obtained by boiling cellobiose with acetic 
anhydride and sodium acetate has m.-p. 191^ the -isomeride has 
m.-p. 22 1 ^ 

Lactose. 

«^ Lactose or milk sugar, discovered in 161 5 by Fabriccio Bartoletti 
in Bologna, occurs in the milk of all animals, but has not been 
encountered in the v^netable kingdom. It is manufactured by eva- 
poration of whey, purified by recrystallisation, and obtained in the 
form of a white crystalline powder. Mineral acids hydrolyse it to 
glucose and galactose; it exhibits muta-rotation, reduces Fehlings 
solution, and forms a phenyl osazone soluble in boiling water. Like 
glucose, it gives rise to two series of isomeric derivatives, €.g.^ octa- 
acetates, acetochloro lactoses and methyl lactosides. Three isomeric 
modifications of the sugar itself have been described corresponding to 
the a- and /3-isomerides and their equilibrated mixture. It is a glucose 
galactoside, since, on oxidation with bromine, lactobionic acid is 
formed, and this when hydrolysed by mineral acids gives gluconic 
acid and galactose, proving that the potential aldehyde group is in 
the glucose part of the molecule. 

Adopting Fischer's glucoside formula for lactose, it is a question, 
as previously indicated, whether the primary alcohol g^up or the 
^-secondary alcohol group of the glucose molecule take part in the 
union with the galactose. The possibility of either the a- or 
7-secondary alcohol groups being concerned is excluded by the fects 
that lactose forms a phenyl osazone, exhibits muta-rotation, and gives 
rise to derivatives having a 7-oxide structure. The /3-secondary alcohol 
group can also be excluded from consideration, as Ruff and Ollendorf 
have obtained, on oxidising the calcium salt of lactobionic acid by 
Fenton's method, a galactoarabinose sugar which forms a phenyl 
osazone in which this /3-alcohol group is involved. It must therefore 
be unconibined in the parent lactose. It is impossible at present to 
go any further in deciding in favour of either of the remaining two 
formulae for lactose (see pp. 87, 88). 

Galactose residue. Glucose residue. 

CH,(0H) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . OHl . CH— O . CH, . CH(OH) . CH[CH . 0H1.CH(0H) 



CH,(0H) . CH(0H) . CH . [CH . OHl • CH-O . CH[CH, . OH] . CfflgH . OH], . CH(0H> 



Alternative Formulse for Lactose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE DISACCHARIDES 67 

The isomeric a* and /9*forms of milk sugar, originally described by 
Tanret and investigated more recently by Hudson, differ only with 
respect to the relative positions of the hydrogen and hydroxyl radicles 
attached to the carbon atom printed in clarendon type in the glucose 
half of the molecule. Tanret's Y-lactose is an equilibrated mixture. 
4i-Lactose is properly a-glucose-/9-^alactoside, whereas /3*lactose is 
j9-f;lucos&-/3-galactoside. 

Galactoarabinose is of interest as the only example of a syntheti* 
cal disaccharide containing both hexose and pentose sugars. It is 
therefore akin to the natural sugar rhamninose. The formation of 
galactoarabinose affords additional proof that lactose is a galactoside. 

Lactose is hydrolysed by a specific enzyme lactase found in a few 
yeasts (or, more correctly, toruls), in some kefir preparations, and in 
the enzyme (crude emulsin) contained in an aqueous extract of almonds. 
It is believed that kefir lactase and almond lactase are not identical. 
Lactose is not hydrolysed by maltase, invertase, diastase, nor by any 
of the enzymes of dried brewers' yeast Only those yeasts (torulae) 
which contain lactase are capable of fermenting milk sugar. Lactose 
is particularly prone to undergo lactic and butyric acid fermentations. 

Isolactose is the name given to a disaccharide obtained by Fischer 
and Armstrong by the synthetical action of ithe enzyme kefir lactase 
on a concentrated solution of equal parts of glucose and galactose, 
and isolated in the form of the phenyl osazone. It has not been 
further studied. 

Melibiose. 

Melibiose, together with fructose, is obtained from the trisaccharide 
rafKnose by hydrolysis with dilute acids or certain yeasts (Scheibler 
and Mittelmeier). It crystallises with difficulty and it is advisable 
to remove the fructose from the products of hydrolysis of rafiinose 
by fermentation with a top yeast before attempting to isolate it On 
hydrolysis with strong acids melibiose yields glucose and galactose. 
On reduction with sodium amalgam an alcohol melibiitol is formed. 
This, when hydrolysed, is converted into mannitol and galactose. 
Melibiose is thus a galactoside of glucose, 1.^., very closely related to 
milk sugar. 

It exhibits muta-rotation, forms a phenyl osazone and an osone, 
which latter decomposes to galactose and glucosone. 

Melibiose is slowly hydrolysed by emulsin, more rapidly by an 
enzyme contained in bottom fermentation, but not in top fermentation 
yeasts : this enzyme is appropriately termed melibiase. Melibiose is 

5» 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 CARBOHYDRATES 

not attacked by maltase, invertase or lactase. It affords a chemical 
means of distinguishing between top and bottom fermentation yeasts. 
It is apparently less easily hydrolysed by acids than is milk sugar. 

The difference between melibiose and milk sugar appears to depend 
upon which hydroxyl of the glucose molecule is united to the galacto* 
side (see types A and B, p. 87). Since both disaccharides are 
attacked by emulsin they may provisionally both be considered as 
/8-galactosides. 

Added interest attaches to melibiose in view of its being the first 
natural disaccharide obtained synthetically (Fischer and Armstrong, 
see p. 97). 

Melibiosone, which can be prepared from the osazone by heating 
with benzaldehyde, is hydrolysed by emulsin or by melibiase to 
galactose and glucosone. 

Turanose. 

Turanose was discovered by Alechin in 1890 as a product, tc^ether 
with glucose, of the partial hydrolysis of a trisaccharide, melicitose, 
with weak acids. He stated that it yielded two molecules of glucose 
on further hydrolysis, but Tanret subsequently showed that an equi- 
molecular mixture of glucose and fructose is produced. Turanose is 
thus an isomeride of sucrose, but differs from this in containing a free 
aldehydic group, since it forms a phenyl osazone and reduces Fehling's 
solution. It does not exhibit muta-rotation. It is not at present 
known whether it is to be r^arded as a fructoside or a glucoside. 
Invertase, maltase, emulsin and diastase are without action. 

Vicianose 

Vicianose was obtained by Bertrand from the seeds of a vetch ( Vida 
angustifolid) where it is present in the form of a glucoside, vicianin, 
allied to amygdalin. Vicianose is glucose-arabinoside, since on oxida-> 
tion and subsequent hydrolysis gluconic acid and arabinose are formed. 
Accordingly in the glucoside the glucose group is attached to the 
benzaldehyde cyanhydrin. 

Strophantobiose. 

. Strophantobiose is a component of the glucoside strophantin. 
When this glucoside is hydrolysed by hydrogen chloride in methyl 
alcohol methyl strophantobioside lis formed This does not reduce 
Fehling's solution and is hydrolysed by mineral acids to mannose, 
rhamnose and methyl alcohol. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE TRISACCHARIDES 69 

TRISACCHARIDES. QgHaO^. 

Mannotriose. 

Mannotriose, m.-p. 150^ [a]^ + 167**, a colourless faintly sweet 
crystalline substance, is obtained from stachyose by the action of in- 
vertase or of dilute acetic acid. It reduces Fehling's solution and 
forms a phenyl osazone, m.-p. 122-124° (Tanret). According to Bierry 
the compound, m.-p. 193-194'', described by Neuberg and Lachmann 
was impure. Mannotriose is hydrolysed by acids to glucose (one mole- 
cule) and galactose (two molecules). Bromine oxidises it to mannotri- 
onic acid which is hydrolysed by acids to gluconic acid and galactose, 
thus locating the glucose molecule at the end of the chain. The action 
of enzymes on mannotriose is still a matter of uncertainty. Bierry has 
shown that the intestinal juice of the snail probably first forms 
galactose and a dissaccharide, glucose + galactose, which is subsequently 
hydrolysed. According to Neuberg and Lachmann glucose and a 
digalactose are formed by the action of almond emulsin. 

The constitution is probably 

CHO . CbHjo04— 0-.C,H,o04— O— C,Hu08 
Glucose Galactose Galactose 

-*- ^ -» 

Gluco-galactose. Digalactose. 

Rhamninose. 

Rhamninose, CigHj^Oi^, m.-p. 135-140^ [a]D-4i'', is derived from 
the glucoside xanthorhamnin present in the Persian berry {Rhamnus in- 
fectaria). The berries also contain a specific enzyme, rhamninase, which 
resolves the glucoside into the trisaccharide and rhamnetin. The car- 
bohydrate forms colourless crj^tals which are somewhat sweet : it re- 
duces Fehling's solution. On hydrolysis by mineral acids galactose 
and rhamnose (two molecules) are formed. The galactose is proved to 
be the terminal unit since the rhamninitol and rhamninonic acids, formed 
by reduction and oxidation respectively, are hydrolysed by acids to 
dulcitol or galactonic acid and rhamnose (two molecules). Rhamninose 
is not fermentable and the ordinary enzymes are without action. It ap- 
pears to be slowly hydrolysed by the intestinal juice of Helix. 

The formula may be written : — 

CHO . CbHioO^— O— C.HiiO^— 0-.C,Hi,04 
Galactose. Rhamnose. Rhamnose. 



\/ 



si 



Digitized by 



Google 



J 



70 CARBOHYDRATES 

Raffinose. 

Raffinose, m.-p. 1 1 8- 1 1 9**, \a\^ + 1 04*. The best-known trisaccharide 
is raffinose which is often found in considerable amount in the sugar beet, 
and is present in other plants. Strong mineral acids hydrolyse it com- 
pletely to fructose, glucose and galactose in equal proportions. Dilute 
acids form melibiose and fructose. The action of enzymes on raffinose 
is more specialised ; invertase converts it into fructose and melibiose. 
Emulsin, however, hydrolyses it to sucrose and galactose. Bottom 
yeasts which contain both melibiase and invertase are able to ferment 
it completely. 

Raffinose has no reducing action and behaves chemically as cane 
sugar. The constitutional formula may be written : — 

CJHuOr-O— CeHip04— O— C,H„0, 
Fructose Glucose Galactose 

V— -, '» . ' 

Sucrose. Melibiose. 

Gentianose. 

Gentianose, m.-p. 209-210* [a]n + 3i*2*-33-4**, is obtained in faintly 
sweet colourless crystalline plates by extracting fresh gentian roots with 
95 per cent. alc(^ol. It is non-reducing and is hydrolysed by invertase 
or very dilute acids to fructose and gentiobiose. Some emulsin prepara- 
tions, in particular extracts of Aspergillus niger^ convert it into glucose 
and sucrose (Bourquelot). Stronger acids hydrolyse it to a mixture of 
fructose and two molecules of glucose having [a]o - 20*2^ Animal 
enzymes are without action, but those of molluscs and crustaceae, parti- 
cularly of the snail, act firstly to eliminate fructose and then hydrolyse 
the gentiobiose (Bierry). 

The constitutional formula is thus written : — 

C,H„0<— O— C.H„04— O— CeHaOo 
Fructose Glucose Glucose 



Sucrose. Gentiobiose. 

Melicitose. 

Melicitose (Melezitose), m.-p. 148-150**, [a]D + 88s^ is obtained from 
Briangon manna, the exudation from the young twigs of the larch. It 
does not reduce Fehling's solution or form a phenyl osazone. Dilute 
acids hydrolyse it to turanose and glucose. Living yeast and en- 
zymes are without action. Stronger acids give rise to fructose (one 
molecule) and glucose (two molecules). It forms a hendeca-acetate. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE TETRASACCHARIDES 71 

The constitution may be represented provisionally by the alterna- 
tive formulae : — 

1 . glucose + fructose + glucose. 

2. glucose + glucose + fructose. 

These would assign to turanose the structure alternatively of a glucoside 
or fructoside. 

TETRASACCHARIDES, C,,H^O„. 

Stachyose. 

Stachyose (Mannotetrose, Lupeose) is found in the tubers of 
Stachys iubifera^ in ash manna, in the twigs of white jasmine and in 
the subterranean parts of Lamium album. 

It is probably identical with lupeose obtained by Schulze from 
Lupinus luteus and Angustifolius, It forms lustrous colourless plates, 
m.-p. 167-170', [a]D + 148°, and tastes quite sweet. 

Fehling's solution and alkali are without action on it Acetic 
acid and the invertase of yeast hydrolyse it into mannotriose and 
fructose. Sulphuric acid causes complete hydrolysis to hexoses. It 
is also hydrolysed by the intestinal juice of Helix pamatia which first 
eliminates fructose, then galactose and finally resolves the gluco- 
galactoside remaining as described under mannotriose. Animal 
intestinal enzymes though they hydrolyse sucrose are without action 
on stachyose, the enzymes of molluscs and crustaceae are also without 
action. Vintilesco claims to have hydrolysed stachyose completely 
by the successive action of invertase and almond emulsin. On oxida- 
tion with nitric acid, mucic acid is formed. 

The formula may be expressed : — 

C^HaOir-O-C-HiA-O— C,HaoO^O-CeHuO, 
Fructofic Glucose Galactose Galactose 

y 

Mannotriose 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER V. 

THE RELATION BETWEEN CONFIGURATION * AND BIOCHEMICAL 

PROPERTIES. 

Perhaps the most important, and at the same time the most interesting, 
chapter in the chemistry of the sugars is that dealing with the altera- 
tion in properties brought about by small changes in the stereo-chemical 
configuration of the carbohydrate molecule. Although the molecular 
weight and the gross structure of the molecule remain the same, the 
very slightest modification in the space arrangement of the groups 
attached to the chain of carbon atoms is sufficient to affect the bio- 
chemical behaviour in the most profound manner. How exactly 
structure is to be correlated with biolc^ical behaviour, and how little 
variation in structure is permissible, will be seen from the following 
examples. 

It has long been known that the optical antipodes of a substance 
containing an asymmetric carbon atom behave very differently towards 
biological agents, such as yeasts, moulds, enzymes or bacteria. The 
celebrated researches of Pasteur showed, for example, that the green 
mould, PeniciUium glaucum, when allowed to grow in solutions of 
racemic acid, assimilated only ^tartaric acid, leaving the /-tartaric acid 
untouched. It was supposed at the time that the mould was unable 
to attack the /-tartaric acid; recent investigations suggest, however, 
that the mould ultimately destroys both antipodes, but attacks one at 
a very much greater rate than the other, and probably in a different 
manner. 

From a given racemic substance it is possible to obtain sometimes 
the one and sometimes the other antipode by utilising appropriate 
organisms. For example, an excess of ^^mandelic acid is obtained 
from ^mandelic acid on treatment with PenidUium glaucum^ whereas 
when Saccharamyces elltpsoideus is used an excess of /-mandeUc acid is 
obtained. 

^ By the term configuration is understood the positions of the hydroxyl groups relative 
to the skeleton chain of carbon atoms. Change involves transference from the right to left 
side of the chain as figured on the plane of the paper or vic$ versd from left to right. 

72 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 73 

Fermentation. 

Yeasts only ferment one, the dextro, isomeride of glucose converting 
it into carbon dioxide and alcohol, and accordingly when yeasts are 
allowed to act on racemic glucose the laevo glucose remains unattacked. 
The same applies to the other fermentable hexoses ; in all cases only 
the dextro isomeride is attacked. ^^ 

The investigation of the behaviour of all the known hexoses, 
either found in nature or prepared in the laboratory, towards yeasts 
has shown that only four are fermented, viz,, the ^forms of glucose, 
mannose, galactose and fructose, all of which are natural products. 

When the behaviour of different species of yeasts towards these 
natural hexoses is studied, it is found without a single exception that 
any species of yeast which ferments any one of the three hexoses — 
glucose, mannose and fructose — likewise ferments all three of them, 
and with approximately the same readiness. The study of the kinetics 
of the three fermentation reactions confirms their similarity, and they 
have the same temperature coefficient (Slator). Everything, in fact, 
points to the mechanism involved in the fermentation of glucose, 
mannose or fructose being the same in each instance. 

It has already been pointed out that the three hexoses in question 
are closely related in structure, so closely indeed as to be converted 
under the influence of alkalis into one another. An enolic form 
common to all three hexoses has been assumed to act as an intermediate 
substance in the transformation. The relationship will become clear 
when the formulae of these carbohydrates':are consulted : — 



CHO 


CHO 


CH.OH 


CH,.0H 


HtOH 


HOCH 


COH 


CO 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


CHjOH 


CHjGH 


CHjOH 


CH,0H 


Glucose. 


Mannose. 


Common enolic form. 


Fructose. 



It is clearer here to use the older open-chain formulae, but the reader 
is advised to {study these formulae in the solid model in order to 
understand fully the stereoisomerism of these compounds. Represen- 
tations on a plane surface easily lead to confusion. 

On the basis of the closed-ring formula for glucose, enolisation 
involves in the first place rupture of the pentaphane ring and forma- 
tion of the aldehydrol ; secondly, water is eliminated between two 
contiguous carbon atoms to give the enol. Comparing the scheme 
opposite with that on p. 5, for the conversion of the aldehydrol into 
glucose, the difference is at once apparent : — 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 CARBOHYDRATES 



HO . CH ho/ C H CH(0H> 




- H,0 ' C.OH 



.Ih 



HO. 

HC.OH 



HC. 



.OH 
.OH 

OlocoM. Aldehyd^l. ^o^- 



CH,. 



According to the alternative formula th^aldehyd^> forms aldehydro! 
and this enol. The change is a reversible one. 

The process of fermentation of a sugar is regarded as a series of 
consecutive reactions each involving! simplification of the sugar mole- 
cule till it breaks down into carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol, com- 
pounds containing only one and two carbon atoms. Measurements 
of the rate of fermentation can be made by determining the rate of 
formation of either of these products—- for example, the amount of 
CO] formed after various intervals of time — but such measurements 
only apply to the slowest of these reactions. Similarly the quantita- 
tive effect produced by an increase of temperature in quickening the 
rate of fermentation in reality applies to the slowest reaction of the 
series. 

It has been 'suggested that the first process in fermentation is the 
conversion of the sugar into the enolic form by means of an enzyme 
contained in the yeast. The three fermentable hexoses yield the same 
enolic form, but possibly it is formed at different rates according to 
the sugar; and wlyBfch«M3Qe and the same enzyme is operative in each 
case it is impossible to say. TEe subsequent simplification of the 
molecule is the same for each of the three hexoses, an hypothesis which 
is quite in agreement with the experimental observations. This sim- 
plification is also due to an enzyme or to several enzymes acting in 
turn. The breakdown of the molecule will thus commence at the 
double linkage between the two terminal carbon atoms. 

This view is quite in harmony with the discovery by Harden and 
/ Young that the first stage in the fermentation of glucose by zymase is 
{ the formation of hexose phosphate CfiiQOJJiJPO^. Glucose, 
mannose and fructose give rise to the same hexose phosphate : when 
this is hydrolysed fructose is obtained. In other words, the hexose 
phosphate may be regarded as a compound of the enolic form of the 
three hexoses (cp. Dr. Harden*s Monc^raph, p. 46). 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 75 

Further support of this view of the fermentation process is afforded 
by the fact that substances so closely related to glucose as the methyl 
glucosides, glucosone, gluconic acid and ethyl gluconate are, without 
exception, unfermentable : in all these only the groups attached ta 
the terminal carbon atom differ from those of glucose. Enolisation in 
them, however, is impossible, and no action takes place since the for-- 
mation of hexose phosphate is prevented. 

The behaviour of galactose is altogether different It is fermented 
with much greater difficulty than glucose. Very many yeasts are 
quite without action on galactose. The temperature coefficient of the 
fermentation of galactose is different from the value found in the case 
of glucose. These facts suggest that galactose is fermented by a 
different mechanism, that a different enzyme is concerned perhaps in 
causing enolisation, which is less widely distributed in yeasts. None 
the less the two phenomena must be very closely allied No yeast is 
known capable of fermenting galactose but not fermenting glucose. 

The change in configuration in passing from glucose to galactose, 
though not sufficient to prevent fermentation altogether, causes the 
compound to be far more resistant to attack. It is not surprising^ 
therefore, that any further change in configuration is sufficient to make 
the new hexose no longer fermentable. 

This is illustrated by the behaviour of galactose and its isomerides, 
talose and tagatose, which have an enolic form common to all three 
hexoses : — 



CHO 


CHO 


CHjOH 


CHOH 


HCOH 


HOCH 


CO 


COH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


CHjGH 


CHjOH 


CH,OH 


CHjOH 


Galactose. 


Talose. 


Tagatose. 


Enolic form. 



Neither talose nor tagatose is fermented by any yeast whose 
action towards them has at present been investigated. Yet in talose 
the position of the two upper hydroxyl groups is the same as that in 
mannose, and the lower three hydroxyls occupy the same positions as 
they do in galactose. Obviously, for it to be fermentable, the con- 
figuration of the hexose has to be correct as a whole, the fact that 
single hydroxyl groups occupy the same positions as they do in fer- 
mentable hexoses being of no moment. 

Presumably yeasts contain no enzymes compatible with talose or 
tagatose and able to convert them into the enolic form. 

The facts described can only be explained on the assumption that 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 CARBOHYDRATES 

there is the very closest relationship between the configuration of a 
fermentable hexose and the enzymes which cause fermentation. This 
hypothesis receives confirmation which is little short of absolute when 
the behaviour of the sugars other than the hexoses is considered. No 
pentose, either natural or synthetical, is fermentable by yeast. None 
of the synthetic tetrose, heptose or octose carbohydrates are fermentable. 

The only fermentable sugars, other than the four hexoses, are a 
nonose prepared by the cyanohydrin reaction from mannose and a 
ketotriose, dtoxyacetone. The fermentability of glycerose — a mixture 
of glyceric aldehyde and dioxyacetone — was long a matter of contro- 
versy ; Bertrand, however, showed that pure dioxyacetone is fermented 
by very active yeasts and this has been repeatedly confirmed. 

The identification of intermediate products in the fermentation of 
glucose has long been a matter of controversy (see Harden's Mono- 
graph on Alcoholic Fermentation in this series). 

Buchner and his co-workers have suggested in turn lactic acid 
CH, . CH(OH) . CO^H and dihydroxy acetone CH,OH . CO . CH^OH, 
but in both cases Slator has shown that these are fermented very much 
more slowly than glucose, an observation which renders Buchner's 
hypothesis untenable, and the same will probably apply to the latest 
suggestion that formic acid is an intermediate product Bearing in 
mind Fischer's synthesis of acrose from dihydroxyacetone it appears 
probable that dihydroxyacetone is fermented by yeast only after it has 
been converted into hexose. This hypothesis is greatly strengthened 
by Lebedeffs proof that the organic phosphate produced during the 
fermentation of dihydroxyacetone is identical with the hexose phosphate 
obtained by Harden and Young from the fermentable hexoses. 

It is probable, therefore, that dihydroxy acetone is only fermented 
after conversion into hexose. 

It is obvious how intimately the property of undergoing fermen- 
tation is connected with the configuration of the sugar molecule. 
Lengthening or shortening the chain of carbons is sufficient to place 
the sugar molecule out of harmony with the yeast enzymes, and thus 
prevent its destruction by fermentation. The fact that triose, hexose 
and nonose sugars are fermentable has led to the suggestion that the 
fermentable carbohydrates must contain a multiple of three carbon 
atoms : the fermentability of the nonose requires confirmation. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES jj 

Glucoside Hydrolysis. 

The formation of stereoisomeric a- and /9-methyl glucosides by the 
interaction of glucose and methyl alcohol in presence of hydrogen 
chloride has already been discussed and their constitutional formula 
established These isomeric glucosides, though so alike in structure, 
behave very differently towards enzymes. 

a-Methyl glucoside is hydrolysed by the maltose (a-glucase^),of 
yeast, ^-methyl glucoside by emulsin Q3-glucase) which is widely dis- 
tributed in plants. Emulsin is quite without action on the o-glucoside ; 
maltase has no effect on the /3-glucoside. 





:h,oh 

/l-Methvl glucoside 
hydralyie^ l^ Maltaie. hydrolysed by Emulsin. 

(a-glucase) (/S-glucase) 

4 
Other alkyl derivatives of glucose behave in a similar manner. It 

may be stated as a general rule that /9-glucosides are hydrolysed by 
emulsin alone, o-glucosides are only attacked by maltase. Accordingly 
compounds hydrolysed by emulsin are considered to be /9-glucosides. 
The corresponding derivatives of /-glucose are not affected in the 
slightest by either enzyme, or and /3-methylV-glucosides represent the 
mirror iftiages of the methyl-^lucosides and their behaviour is parallel 
to that of /-glucose towards living yeast 

The glucosidic derivatives of mannose, viz,y methyl-^ and /-manno- 
sides are also quite stable in presence of maltase or emulsin. Hence 
the change in position of a single hydroxyl (here that attached to the 
a-carbon atom) is sufficient to render the mannoside out of harmony 
with these enzymes ; but, as has just been seen, the change in con- 
figuration is not sufficient to make mannose unfermentable by yeast 

^ NomencUUurg o/BnMynus. — ^The name of an enzyme is usually derived from that of 
the sugar which it hydrolyses by substituting the suffix -ass for -as#. Thus maltase 
hydrolyses maltose, lactase hydrolyses lactose. The enzyme which attacks glucosides 
may be termed glucose and is an a-glucase or /9-gluca9e accordingly as it hydrolyses the 
a- or jB-glucoside. 



Digitized by 



Google 



78 CARBOHYDRATES 

a^Methyl-€^galactoside is likewise not hydrolysed by maltase or 
«mulsin. 

/3-Methyl<^galactoside is hydrolysed by the crude emulsin prepara- 
tion obtained from almonds, but subsequent investigation has shown 
that this preparation contains a mixture of enzymes ^nd that the 
liydrolysis of the /8-galactoside is due to a lactase (/S-galactase) and 
not to the same enzyme which attacks /3-methyl glucoside. This 
4>ehaviour shows that the alteration in the position of the hydroxyl 
attached to the 7-carbon atom in the glucoside molecule renders the 
^lactosides out of harmony with maltase and emulsin. Any other 
alteration involving departure from the configuration of the glucose 
molecule or in the length of the chain of carbon atoms has the same 
effect on the behaviour towards enzymes. 

None of the known glucosides ^ of the pentoses, methyl pentoses, 
heptoses or other hexoses are hydrolysed by maltase or emulsia 

This behaviour can only mean that the hydrolysing power of these 
two enzymes bears the very closest relationship to the configuration of 
the dextro-glucose molecule. 

Fischer has drawn particular attention to the behaviour of the or 
and /3-methylV-xyIosides. These practically correspond to the corre- 
sponding glucosides with one asymmetric carbon atom removed : — 





HCOH 

CH,OH 
•-Methyl-il-gluoonde. •-Meth3rI-<i.xyIo«ide. 

Both xylosides are unaffected by either maltase or emulsin. In 
this instance, although the major part of the molecule is identically the 
3ame in each glucoside, the shortening of the chain is sufficient to 
destroy the close harmony with the enzyme. The glucosides investi- 
gated by Fischer are summarised in Table IX. on page 79 in which 
+ indicates hydrolysis, o denotes no action. 

The investigation of the rate of hydrolysis of maltose — an a-gluco- 
side — by maltase has shown that change t^es place more slowly in the 
presence of glucose, indicating that this sugar has a definite retarding 

^The term glucoside is used generally for the corresponding derivatives of all the 
sugars and not restricted to the derivatives of glucose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 79 

TABLB IX. 



OlscMidt. 


Mftltaae 
(a-Glucaae). 


Bronltiii 


•.MethyM-Gluconde. 

/i-Methyl^GlucoBtde. 

a-Methyl-/-Glucoside . 

3.Methyl-/«Gluco8ide . 

o-Ethyl^-Glucoside . 

/i-Ethyl-il.Gluco6ide . 

^PhenoM-Gluooside . 

«i.Methyl-<f-Galact06tde 

3.Methyl-<i-Galactoside 
MethyW-Manno«ide 
Methyl.(.Mannotide 

o-Methyl-Z-Xyloude . 

3.Methyl.|.3tylodde . 
Methyl4-A»binoeide 
Methyl rhamnoiide • 
Methyl glucoheptodde 




+ 



+ 

















+ 




+ 
+ 












influence on the enzyme. Other sugars, e^,, mannose, fructose, galac- 
tose, arabinose, xylose are quite without influence on the rate of 
change proving that the action of glucose is due not to any concentrat- 
ing effect but to the specific influence exerted by its configuration. 
The fact that /3-methyl glucoside also acts to retard the hydrolysis of 
the a-glucoside (maltose) affords the strongest confirmatory evidence 
of this specific hindrance. Fart of the enzyme must combine with 
the glucose and so be withdrawn from action. Maltase can apparently 
-combine with /3-methyl glucoside though quite unable to hydro- 
Jyse it. 

In an analogous manner the hydrolysis of /9-methyl glucoside by 
^mulsin is controlled only by glucose and a-methyl glucoside, and by 
no other carbohydrate. 

These illustrations, selected from a number of carefully worked out 
cases, suflice to show the very intimate relation which exists between 
enzyme and the substance upon which it acts. This can only be ex- 
plained by supposing some form of combination between the two. 
The enzyme, moreover, must fit the glucoside at every point along 
the chain of carbon atoms, thus : — 



I 

I 



RO 



Ik 



-••♦• 



^0- 



Digitized by 



Google 



8o CARBOHYDRATES 

The combination may perhaps be compared to the way in which 
the successive fingers of a glove fit on to a right hand : if the position 
of any finger be altered it is impossible to fit the glove ; further, the glove 
will not fit on the left hand. Fischer's original simile compared the 
relationship of enzyme to hydrolyte to that existing between a key and 
the lock for which it is made, the shape of the key enabling it only 
to unfasten the particular lock to the arrangement of whose wards it 
corresponds. 

The enzymes themselves, if this hypothesis be accepted, must be 
closely related in configuration to the substances which th^ hydrolyse. 
From this point of view the presence of a carbohydrate in the molecule 
of invertase and some other enzymes is at least significant (see Mono- 
graph by Bayliss, p. 19). Salkowski states, however, that the carbohy- 
drate present in the yeast gum is precipitated with the enzyme, but 
that it is not a component of the purified enzyme. 

It is perhaps necessaiy to emphasise that the actual hydrolysis of 
the carbohydrate is due to the action of the water molecules. The 
enzymes may be conceived perhaps as acting as a vice in presenting 
in the appropriate manner the water molecule to the centre to be 
hydrolysed. 

Attachment of enzyme to hydrolyte takes place no doubt through 
the oxygen atoms of the hydroxyl groups. In these the oxygen atom 
possesses residual affinity, that is, is not fully saturated, and it is there- 
fore able to combine with appropriate elements of the molecule of the 
enzyme 

The fact that tetramethyl-/9-methyl glucoside like /9-methyl 
glucoside itself is hydrolysed by emulsin is in full agreement with this 
view: — 





HCOMe 

CH,.OMc CH,.OH 

Tetramethyl-zB-methyl glucoside. /8-Mcthyl glucoside. 

Although in this compound the hydrogen in the hydroxyl groups ot 
glucose has been replaced by methyl, this change is not sufficient either 
to destroy the residual affinity of the oxygen atoms or to mask them 
from the influence of the enzyme 



Digitized by 



Google 



HCOH 






HCOlT^---^^^ 


. 


. a-Carbon 


HQCH ^^„^-' 


>0 


. /8-Carboii 


HtOH 


• 


. yCarbon 
. S-Carbon 


CH9OH 

Glucose. 








CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 81 

Conversion of Galactose into Glucose. 

When the closed-ring formulae of the two hexoses, glucose and 
galactose, are considered side by side, it will be obvious that the differ- 
ence between them is confined to the relative positions of the groups 
attached to the 4th or 7-carbon atom, i.e., the oxygen atom of the 
pentaphane ring is attached to different sides of the molecule : — 

HCOH 

UcoH 

HQCH 

.en 

HCOH 

tH,OH 
Galactose. 

The direct conversion of one sugar into the other involves the rupture 
of the ring at this point and its closure again in the opposite sense. 
The whole behaviour of glucose shows, however, that the pentaphane 
ring ruptures preferentially at the attachment of the oxygen to the 
first carbon atom. The conversion of glucose into galactose has been 
only indirectly effected by chemical means, but there is little doubt 
that it takes place in the organism, as it is only on this supposition 
that the formation of the galactoside, milk sugar, in large quantities in 
mammals during lactation can be accounted for. 

Under normal conditions the blood transports glucose to the 
mammary glands, where, in the regular course of lactation, it is con- 
verted into the disaccharide, imilk sugar, and excreted in the milk. 
Removal of the mammary gland results in an accumulation of glucose 
in the blood, from which it passes to the urine. Galactose is nt)t 
found in the urine. Injection of glucose causes lactosuria when the 
mammary glands are in full activity, but produces glucosuria when the 
glands are less active. Nothing is known as to the mechanism by 
which the mammary glands are able to transform glucose into lactose, 
but it is undoubtedly effected by means of enzymes. 

The enzyme lactase which hydrolyses /8-methyl galactoside, other 
/3-alkyl galactosides and milk sugar, is a specific enzyme for /3-galacto- 
sides, just as emulsin has been shown to be the specific enzyme for 
)8-glucosides. Lactase has its action controlled only by galactose and 
by no other sugar, and it is incapable of hydrolysing glucosides. No 
enzyme is at present known which can hydrolyse a-methyl galacto- 
side ; on the other hand, no compound of a-galactose is known in 
nature. 

Apparently two lactases exist, one form present in kephir being 

6 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 CARBOHYDRATES 

controlled by galactose, the other present in almond emulsin by glucose. 
The recent work of Miss Stephenson indicates that the lactase of the 
intestinal mucous membrane of animals is a glucolactase. 

Oxidation. 

The influence of configuration has been also studied in the case 
of the behaviour of carbohydrates towards oxidising bacteria. The 
bacterium xylinum (Adrian Brown), or sorbose bacterium, as it has 
been termed by Bertrand, oxidises aldoses to the corresponding mono- 
basic acids, and converts the alcohols into ketones, ^^., gluconic acid 
is formed from glucose ; galactonic acid from galactose ; xylose and 
arabinose yield xylonic and arabonic acids. In all these cases the 
- CHO group is oxidised to - COaH by the agency of the bacterium. 
In the case of alcohols the sorbose bacteria oxidise - CH(OH) - 
to - CO - . Thus mannitol forms fructose ; sorbitol yields sorbose ; 
\ erythritol, arabitol and perseitol are oxidised to the corresponding 
I ketones, and glycerol gives dihydroxyacetone. The bacterium has 
I no action, however, on glycol, dulcitol or xylitoL 

An examination of the formula of these alcohols shows that the 
CH(OH) group oxidised to - CO is next to a CHj(OH) group ; 
further, for action to take place, the hydroxyl group must not be 
adjacent to a hydrc^en atom on the same side of the configuration 
formula ; in other words, the compound must contain the grouping : — 

H H 

CHj(OH) . C . C — 
OH OH 

Consideration of the configuration formulae of mannitol and dulcitol 
will help to make this clear : — 

H OH H H 

CH,(OH) . C . C . C . C . CHs(OH) 

OH H OH OH 

• Mannitol—converted into Frnctoie. 

H OHOH H 

CH,(OH) . C . C . C . C . CH^OH) 

OH H H OH 

Dulcitol— not attacked. 

Gluconic acid contains the sensitive grouping. Accordingly, it is 
further oxidised by the bacterium to a keto-gluconic acid : — 

OH H OH OH 
CO,H . C . C . C . C . CH,(OH) 
H OH H H 

Gluconic add. 
OH H OH 
CO,H . C . C • C . CO . CH,(OH) 
H OH H 
Keto ginoonic acid. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 83 

In contrast with the sucroclastic enzymes, which are apparently in 
harmony with the sugar molecule as a whole, these oxidising bacteria 
seem adapted to a section only of the molecule. Their action is none 
the less absolutely dependent on the presence of the requisite configura- 
tion in the molecule. 

Many bacteria act upon mannitol which are without action on 
dulcitol. Harden found this to be true for Bacillus colt communis, which 
is of interest also since it produces twice as much alcohol from mannitol 
as from glucose. This difference is ascribed to the presence of the 
group CH3(0H) . CH(OH) — which is contained once only in glucose 
but twice in mannitol. 



By floating detached leaves, which have been deprived of their 
starch by keeping them in the dark, on nutrient solution it is possible 
to determine which substances can occasion the formation of starch. 
The application of this method to the carbohydrate alcohols afTords an 
excellent illusti^tion of the influence of configuration on the biological 
properties. Plants which normally contain alcohols can utilise these 
and also glycerol to form starch ; thus the Oleacece utilise mannitol, 
Lingustrum and Chieranthus make use of dulcitol. Treboux has shown 
that the Rosacea are able to produce starch from sorbitol, the production 
being more vigorous than from carbohydrates or from glycerol, but they 
are quite unable to utilise mannitol or dulcitol. The leaves of Adonis 
vemalis are able to convert adonitol into starch but can make use of no 
other carbohydrate alcohol. 

The four polysaccharides, sucrose, gentianose, rafiinose and stachyose 
maj^ all be regarded as fructose derivatives of increasing complexity. 
The invertase of beer yeast eliminates fructose from all of them, the 
juice of Hdix pomatia or of Aslacus behaving similarly, though there is a 
difference in the d^ree of hydrolysis, sucrose being far the most readily 
attacked. The intestinal juice of the dog and that of other invertebrates 
acts only on sucrose (Bierry). 

The digestive juice of snails is remarkable in its activity towards 
substituted lactose derivatives. Thus it hydrolyses lactose-osazone, 
aminoguanidine, semi-carbazone and carbamide to galactose and a de- 
rivative of glucose. In a similar manner it splits off galactose from 
derivatives of mannotriose (Bierry), 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VI, 

HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS. 

Hydrolysis of Disaccharides. 

Disaccharides are hydrolysed to monosaccharides by mineral and 
of^nic acids in accordance with the equation — 
OtflnOu + H,0 = aC,Hu0, 

Any acid will act on each sugar, though the intensity of the action 
differs more or less according to the acid or the disaccharide. 

The disaccharides are also hydrolysed by enzymes. The action 
of enzymes is essentially selective : each particular sugar is hydrolysed 
only by its appropriate enzyme and by no other. There is thus a 
sharp distinction between the two classes of hydrolysing agents. 

Great historical interest attaches to the phenomenon of the hydro- 
lysis of cane sugar by acids as it was one of the first chemical changes 
of which the course was followed by physical methods.^ The change 
in sign of the optical rotatory power on inversion was first announced 
by Biot in 1836. A few years later Wilhelmy (1850) showed that the 
amount of sugar changed in any given moment is a constant percent- 
age of the amount of unchanged sugar present. This is known as 
Wilhelmy's law, and put into mathematical form it is expressed by the 
equation : — 



"' J ^ where. 



a a initial amount of sugar. 

X — amount already inverted. 

t » time which has elapsed since the reaction started. 



This law has been carefully verified experimentally: the above 
expression is the simplest type of mass action equatioa The velocity 
constant K represents the rate at which the sugar is inverted. 

Cane sugar is hydrolysed at very different rates by different acids. 
If the acids are classified in order according to their power of hydro- 
lysing sucrose they will be found to be also arrai^ed according to 

^ It is outside the limits of this monograph to do more than indicate the salient features 
of hydrolysis. A most valuable and complete summary of the literature bearing on the 
subject with a bibliography complete up to igo6 is contained in a report presented by R. J. 
Caldwell to the British Association at York, 1906. 

84 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 



85 



their electrical conductivity and power of hydrolysing methyl acetate. 
This fact was first recognised by Ostwald in 1884. Other disac- 
charides and the glycosides are also hydrolysed by acids in accordance 
with Wilhelmy's law, but hydrolysis takes place far more slowly than 
in the case of cane sugar. Indeed, whereas cane sugar is rapidly 
hydrolysed by normal sulphuric acid at 20^ milk sugar requires pro- 
longed heating at 80** to effect the same proportion of change. Arm- 
strong and Caldwell give the relative ease with which hydrolysis 
takes place as milk sugar i, maltose 1*27, cane sugar 1240. Other 
figures relating to the glucosides are given in Table X. : — 

TABLE X. 



Compound. 


Relative Rate of 
Hydrdysia. 


o^Methyl glucoside 
/3-Methyl glucoside 
a-Methyl galactoside 
/3-Methyl galactoside 

Salicin . 

Maltose . 

Milk sugar 




xoo 

179 

601 

It 



The rate of hydrolysis of the other disaccharides mentioned on 
p. 59 has not yet been determined, but it is known that trehalose is 
only hydrolysed with excessive difficulty and differs therefore markedly 
from cane sugar. 

The relative strength of acids as measured by their inverting power 
is dependent on the nature of the sugar by means of which the com- 
parison is made, and even with the same sugar the ratio is different at 
different temperatures. The following table compiled by Caldwell 
illustrates this point It would, however, lead too far to discuss the 
significance of these observations here, 

TABLE XI. 



SncsrHydrolyicd. 


Temp. 


Relative Activitiea of the Adda. 


HCL 


H,S04. 


H,C04. 


Camphor- 
(Reychlcr). 


Sncrobe . 

Salicin .... 
Maltose .... 
Lactose .... 
(Conductivity) . 


74° 
60° 

25« 


106 
xoo 
100 
100 
100 


537 
49*9 
40-5 

477 
6i'9 


i8-a 
23-3 
141 

197 


89*8 
68-6 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 CARBOHYDRATES 

The foregoing data (Table X.), though at present somewhat scanty, 
afford important material for the discussion of the nature of the hydro- 
l)^ic process. Considering the hydrolysis of the glucosides two views 
are possible, either (i) that the compound behaves much as the simple 
ether CH,. O . CH^ would, and that the hydrolyst becomes associated 
with the oxygen atom to which the CH^ group is attached ; or (2) that 
the attachment is to the oxygen atom in the ring. On the former 
view the two isomeric a- and ^-glucosides should be hydrolysed with 
equal readiness as the methoxyl groups are equally weighted in the 
a- and /3- positions. 

Actually in the case of both glucose and galactose the /3-derivative 
is hydrolysed about 1*75 times as readily as the o-derivative, and, as 
there is every reason for thinking that the mechanism of change is the 
same in both cases, the difference in the rate of hydrolysis can only 
be due in main to the relative distances of the OCH^ groups from the 
centre of change. 

There is little doubt that the active system, within which change 
takes place, is formed by the association of acid-water molecules with 
the oxygen atom in the pentaphane ring. Oxonium compounds are 
formed of the type already discussed at length on pp. 19, 22. In 
other words, this oxygen is the centre from which attack proceeds. 

Reference to a solid model will readily show that a distinct differ- 
ence exists in the relative distances of the - OCH, group, when in the 
a- and ^- positions, from the oxygen atom in the ring ; this is but im- 
perfectly rendered on a plane surface. 



HC.OH 
HO. CH / HO . CH 





:H, . OH CH, . OH 

a-Methyl glucoside. $-Methyl glucotide. 

The a-methyl glucoside, since it is the most stable form, may be 
assumed to be that in which the methoxyl (OCH,) group is furthest 
removed from the pentaphane oxygen as shown above : conversely, 
the /3-glucoside will be that in which the methoxyl is nearest the 
oxygen centre. 

It must be assumed in the case of the galactosides, which are more 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 87 

readily hydrolysed than the glucosides, that the interchange in the posi- 
tion of the groups attached to the^-carbon atom, which involves a shift 
in the position of the ring, brings the pentaphane oxygen nearer the 
methoxyl group (p. 9) and so facilitates action. It is impossible to 
represent such a chaise on a plane surface, but it will be readily under- 
stood on reference to the model. 

The application of this line of ailment to the disaccharides pro- 
mises most interesting results. 

In cane sugar, for example, attack may be expected to proceed 
from both pentaphane oxygen centres, marked X and Y in the skeleton 
formula, towards the centre marked Z, at which scission of the molecule 
occurs : — 




x^ ^ Y 

Glucose half of molecule. Fructose half of molecule. 

In the cane sugar formula already assumed, these three centres are 
in the closest possible contiguity : everything is in favour of hydro- 
lysis, which accordingly may be expected to take place with great 
rapidity, • 

As elsewhere pointed out (p. 59), two types of reducing disac- 
charides may be formulated according to whether the primary or 
secondary alcohol group of one sugar is joined to the glucoside half 
of the molecule. These types may be formulated in skeleton thus : — 



C-C CHjOH c-c 



C— C-C HC O CH CH C-f 



No/ .^ ^^ \o/ 



Type A. — Secondary alcohol junction. 
C— C C— C 

C— C— C HC O CH, CH(OH) CH Q< 



Type B. — Primary alcohol junction. 

In disaccharides of type A, attack will proceed from centre X and 
to some extent from centre Y, though this is further removed from 
exercising influence than in the case of cane sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 CARBOHYDRATES 

In disaccharides of type B, centre Y is still further removed from 
centre Z, and its influence may be supposed to be correspondingly 
weakened. Carbohydrates of this type will be least easily hydrolysed. 

Differences introduced by the second hexose occupying the a- or /8- 
positions will mainly effect the distance XZ in the formula, /.^., in 
practice they will increase or decrease the ms^nitude of the attack from 
the centre X, but they will also have an effect on the nearness of 
the centres Y and Z. As before mentioned, these reasonings are best 
followed with the aid of a solid model. 

It is possible on the basis of the foregoing argument to assign 
type formulae to maltose and lactose, but it would be premature 
to do so until the rate of hydrolysis of their isomerides has been de- 
termined. 

The laws of hydrolysis by enzymes have been dealt with by 
Bayliss (Monograph on Enzyme Action), and the details of the selec- 
tive action towards the disaccharides will be found in Chapters IV. and 
V. of this monograph. 

Enzymes are far more active as hydrolysing agents than acids, a 
very minute quantity at the ordinary temperature being far more 
powerful than very strong acid at a high temperature. 



It is perhaps desirable here to lay emphasis on the difference 
noticeable in the behaviour of enzymes and acids respectively as 
hydrolytic agents. It is due mainly, if not wholly, (i) to the superior 
affinity of the enzymes for the carbohydrates ; (2) to the very different 
behaviour of the two classes of hydrolysts towards water — ^which is 
a consequence of the colloid nature of the one and the crystalloid 
nature of the other. In other words, whereas there is competition 
between the solvent water and the carbohydrate for the acid, water 
has very little attraction for the enzyme: in ^consequence, practically 
the whole of the enzyme present is taking part in the operation of 
hydrolysis. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 89 



The Synthesis of Monosaccharides by Chemical Means: 

The synthetical preparation of natural dextro-glucose from its ele- 
ments may be justly claimed as one of the greatest achievements of 
the chemisty and it is enhanced in interest by the great biological im- 
portance of the carbohydrates. 

In the following section a brief outline is given of the operations 
performed in preparing glucose and fructose from their elements. 
Dealing first with the earlier work, the first attempt which was in any 
way successful was that made by Butlerow, who showed that when 
trioxymethylene is condensed by means of lime water a syrupy sub- 
stance is obtained which has the properties of a sugar. Subsequently 
Loew improved the technique of the method and named the product 
he obtained formose. Fischer and Tafel started with acrolein dibromide 1 
and effected condensation of this by means of baryta, the change being I 
expressed by the equation : — j 

aCsH^OBr, + 2Ba(OH)3 = CsHuO, + aBaBrs 

They showed that the syrupy product obtained contained two sugars 
distinguished as a- and ^-acrose. Subsequently glycerose was made 
the starting-point for the synthesis ; crude glycerose is a mixture of 
glyceric aldehyde, CH2(0H). CH(OH) . CHO, and dihydroxyacetone, 
CHa(OH) . CO . CH2(0H), and these two compounds can be formulated 
as undergoing the " aldol " condensation forming a ketone, CH2(OH) . 
(CH . OH), . CO. CH2 (OH), which has the samecompositionas fruc- 
tose, a- and ^-Acrose were obtained from this condensation and 
characterised by means of the osazones they formed with phenylhy- 
drazine. a-Acrosazone was found to possess a remarkable resemblance 
to glucosazone, differing only in being optically inactive. More recently 
Fenton has shown that glycollic aldehyde, CH,(OH) . CHO, may be 
used as the starting-point of the synthetical process ; three molecules 
of it condense to a-acrose. 

A product of S3nithesis by all these methods is o-acrose. Fischer i 
converted this firstly into acrose phenyl osazone in order to isolate it j 
from the mixture of substances and then into acrosone by treatment | 
with hydrochloric acid as described in Chapter IL Acrosone, on re- | 
duction, yielded firstly a sweet syrup having all the properties of fruc- / 
tose, and secondly on further reduction an alcohol, o-acritol, very like 



Digitized by 



Google 



90 CARBOHYDRATES 

mannitol but differing in being optically inactive. There was no doubt 
that a-acrose was inactive ^-fructose. The further problem was to ob- 
tain an optically active sugar from this. The product was partially fer- 
mented with yeast and a dextro-rotatory sugar /-fructose was obtained, 
but this biological method did not lead to the isolation of the natural 
sugar. Indeed to obtain this a number of operations were necessary. 
^i7-Fructose was reduced to ^-mannitol and the latter oxidised to the 
corresponding acid, ^-mannonic acid (This acid forms a character- 
istic hydrazide from which it can be easily r^enerated) The racemic 
acid gave crystalline alkaloid salts and these were separated by frac- 
tional crystallisation ; in this manner their resolution into the optically 
active forms was effected just as was done by Pasteur in the case of race- 
mic tartaric acid, d- and /-Mannonic acids were thus obtained by the 
crystallisation of the strychnine or morphine salt of the synthetical 
racemic acid : by reduction of their lactones, they were converted into 
d- and /-mannose and the complete synthesis of these hexoses accom- 
plished. To pass to ^fructose it only remained to reduce the mannosone 
(identical with glucosone) formed from rf-mannosephenyl osazone in 
the manner already described (compare Chap. IL). 

The synthetical mannonic acids above mentioned are converted 
into the corresponding gluconic acids when heated with pyridine or 
quinoline (see p. 35), and it was only necessary to reduce these acids 
to obtain the corresponding glucoses. The stages of these syntheses 
are summarised in the chart on page 91. 

Proceeding in this way Fischer effected the synthesis of the six 
hexoses derived from mannitol, and extended the methods to the 
synthesis of a number of isomeric hexoses which do not occur 
naturally. To-day, out of the sixteen possible isomeric aldohexoses, 
according to the Le Bel-Van't Hoff theory, fourteen have been pre- 
pared synthetically. 

Theoretically a simpler method of passing from fructose (a-acrose) 
to glucose and mannose is afforded by warming with alkali, when the 
isomeric transformations observed by Lobry de Bruyn take place. 
These are of particular interest in the case of sorbose, which is con- 
verted into galactose and tagatose. Sorbose belongs to the mannitol 
series, galactose to the dulcitol series, so that this transformation 
connects the hexoses derived from the two alcohols and indirectly 
effects the complete synthesis of all the sugars derived from dulcitol. 

Before this transformation was discovered Fischer found it neces- 
sary to degrade gulonic acid to the pentose sugar xylose, transform 
this into the isomeric lyxose and combine lyxose with hydrogen 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 91 

Acroleindibrooiide Formaldehyde Glyoerose Giycollic aldehyde 



o-Acroae 

a-Acroeazone 

a-Acrosone 

i 

<i/-Fructose 




l-Pructos$ 



<i/.Mannitol 
<f/.Mannonic acid 



/-Gluconic acid 
UGlucou 



/-Mannonic acid 



l-Mannos$ 



(f-Mannonic acid 



d-Mannose 



(/-Gluconic acid 
d-Glucose 



(/-Glucosazone 
(/-Glucosone 
i/-FrKC/oi# 

cyanide to give^galactonic acid. It was onlylin this somewhat round- 
about fashion that the complete synthesis of galactose and other 
hexoses derived from dulcitol could be effected. 

The other products of synthesis, /8-acrose and formose, have not 
been further investigated. Fischer regarded both of them as contain- 
ing a branched and not a straight chain of carbon atoms. Nef states 
that formose consists* of hexoses and pentoses in equal proportions. 

-Both giycollic aldehyde and dioxyacetone are produced when form- 
aldehyde is condensed by means of calcium carbonate, and H. and A. 
Euler have shown that a pentose, ^i7-arabinoketose, is the main product 
of this polymerisation. It is derived from the condensation of giycollic 
aldehyde and dihydroxyacetone. 

CH,(OH) . CHO + CO(CH, . OH), « CH,(OH) . [CH . OHi . CO . CH^(OH) 

Arabinoketose has not yet been found among plant products. 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 CARBOHYDRATES 



The Synthesis of Carbohydrates in the Plant^ 

Though the primary facts of the photochemical assimilation by the 
green leaf may be r^arded as definitely established the full explanation 
of the process is still outstanding. Priestley (i 77 1), Ingenhouse (i 779) 
and Senebier (1788) established that green plants acquire their carbon 
from carbonic acid; De Saussure (i 8o4),Boussingault (i 861 ) showed that 
the volume of oxygen exhaled and that of carbon dioxide absorbed are 
approximately equal ; Sachs in 1862 proved that the first visible product 
of the process is starch. Brown and Morris (1893) showed that the 
first sugar which could be identified is sucrose, an observation confirmed 
by Parkin (191 1), and Usher and Priestley (1906) found that formalde- 
hyde is the first detectable compound of an aldehydic character. Baeyer 
in 1870 advanced the hypothesis that formaldehyde formed by the re- 
duction of carbon dioxide is the first product of assimilation : the 
aldehyde is considered subsequently to undergo polymerisation to car- 
bohydrate. 

Although this hypothesis is generally accepted as a working basis 
two difficulties have always been experienced ; firstly all attempts to 
prove the presence of formaldehyde in the green parts of plants have 
led to inconclusive results, and secondly the experiments made to 
ascertain whether plants can utilise this aldehyde directly as a source 
of carbohydrates have indicated that it acts as a poisoa 

However, more recent investigation now enables both questions 
to be answered in the affirmative. Usher and Priestley claim to have 
obtained from leaves, which had been killed by immersion in boiling 
water, after exposure to light, sufficient formaldehyde to be detected 
by the usual tests. Their work has been criticised by Ewart, Mameli 
and Pollacci, but it has been confirmed by Schryver using Rimini's 
test for formaldehyde (the formation of a brilliant magenta colour with 
phenyl hydrazine hydrochloride, potassium ferricyanide s^nd hydro- 
chloric acid). Schryver concludes that chlorophyll can form formal- 
dehyde directly, but that it rarely becomes sensible because it does not 
accumulate in the cell since it is withdrawn to form sugars as fast as 
it is formed. 

Glycollic and glyceric aldehydes and dihydroxyacetone are all in- 

^ A fun account of the historical dde of the question has been given by Meldola in a 
presidential address to the Chemical Society in 1906. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 93 

termediate stages in the laboratory synthesis of fructose from form- 
aldehyde, but there is no evidence of these being found among normal 
plant products. They have so far only been encountered as down- 
grade products of the action of certain bacteria on mannitol or glucose. 
Attempts to imitate in the laboratory the formation of formaldehyde 
from carbon dioxide and water 

H^CO, + aH,0 -^ CHaO + aH/), 

have been numerous, but, if some controversial and very doubtful 
experiments be excepted, formic acid has been in all cases the sole 
product of the reduction. However, definite proof of the formation of 
formaldehyde has been recently given by Fen ton (1907) who has 
shown that it is formed when carbon dioxide is reduced by means of 
metallic magnesium. 

This observation of Fenton is of interest when considered in relation 
to Willstatter's recent discovery that chlorophyll contains magnesium 
as an integral part of the molecule. He r^ards the magnesium as 
playing just as important a r61e in the process of assimilation in plants 
as does the iron content' of haemoglobin in its function as oxygen 
carrier. 

Brown and Morris working with the leaves of Tropaeolum came to 
the somewhat unexpected conclusion that sucrose is the first sugar to 
be synthesised by the assimilatory processes. It functions in the first 
place as a temporary reserve material accumulating in the cell sap of 
the leaf parenchyma. As assimilation proceeds and the concentration 
of the cell sap exceeds a certain amount, which probably varies with 
the species of plant, starch is elaborated by the chloroplasts. This 
forms a more stable and permanent reserve material than the sucrose. 
Sucrose is translocated as glucose and fructose, starch as maltose, the 
latter process only taking place when the starvation of the cell has in- 
duced the dissolution of the starch by the leaf diastase. Maltose and 
glucose are the sugars which contribute most to the respiratory re- 
quirements of the leaf cell, glucose being more quickly used up than 
fructose. Probably a larger amount of fructose than of glucose passes 
out of the leaf into the stem in a given time. 

Parkin selected the leaves of the snowdrop {Galanthus nircUis) for 
investigation since this leaf does not form starch except in the guard 
cells of the stomata, though the bulb contains starch and inulin in 
abundance. Maltose m^s also proved to be absent from the leaf. 
His analyses confirm Brown and Morris that sucrose is the first sugar 
to appearand that the hexoses arise from it by inversion. Here again 
the quantity of fructose in the leaf is almost invariably in excess of that 



Digitized by 



Google 



J 



94 CARBOHYDRATES 

of glucose. The total quantity of the hexoses remains remarkably 
constant 

The conclusion that sucrose is the first product of synthesis has 
been criticised adversely on the grounds that it may arise from maltose 
formed from the leaf starch and not from glucose and fructose. 
Brown and Morris have shown that sucrose is formed when barley 
embryos are fed on maltose but not when they are fed on glucose 
although in the latter case the plantlet is found to contain invert sugar. 
However, the fact that in the snowdrop leaf sucrose cannot be formed 
from maltose is claimed to dispose of this criticism. 

Results contrary to those of Brown and Morris, and Parkin have 
been obtained by Strakosch who made use of microchemical methods 
for the identification of the carbohydrates in the leaf of the sugar 
beet He considered that glucose is the first sugar formed and that 
it is ultimately converted into sucrose and this into starch. Strakosch's 
experimental work does not carry conviction and it has been adversely 
criticised. 

Further evidence in the desired direction is afforded by the recent 
work of Campbell who has made an attempt to trace the cycle of 
events which occur in the leaf throughout the twenty-four hours' period 
of light and dark. The work which is full of difficulties experiment- 
ally is admittedly of a preliminary nature, but it is most suggestive in 
character ; it has been conducted on the leaves of mangold {Befa mart" 
tttna) collected during September, 1910. The leaves were collected 
every two hours, and the amount of hexoses, sucrose, maltose and 
starch determined in every sample. 

. The hexoses do not fluctuate greatly in amount, but there is evid- 
ence that the leaf contains a constant percentage in the night-time 
and a higher percentage in the day. At sunrise (J. 30 a.m.) the curve 
jumps suddenly from the one level to the other, and there is an equally 
sudden fall when the light goes in the evening. 

The amount of sucrose varies from cj to 2*5 per cent (calculated 
on the dry matter of the leaf). The curve b^ins to rise at sunl^ht 
and continues to do so throughout the day until 6 p.m. when it 
steadily falls. It lags somewhat behind the hexose curve beginning 
the upward movement an hour later. 

Starch behaves very similarly to sucrose but the rise does not b^in 
before 8 a.m. — a lag of three hours behind the hexoses. It continues to 
rise after dark till i o p.m. When the fall sets in maltose varies in amount 
in exactly the opposite manner to sucrose ; the amount increases dur- 
ing the night from S p.m. till dawn and falls again during the day. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 95 

The results suggest that the hexoses are the first carbohydrates to 
be formed as soon as daylight b^ns, and that from them in turn sucrose 
and starch are synthesised. The synthesis of sucrose does not b^n 
till the amount of hexoses has reached the maximum ; starch is not 
formed till the sucrose has reached a certain concentration ; in other 
words, the more elaborate carbohydrate does not b^in to form until the 
simpler one has reached a certain concentration in the cell This is 
in accord with the views expressed elsewhere (p. 96). Maltose is 
undoubtedly a down-grade product from the starch and the form in 
which it is translocated. 

Assuming that Baeyer's hypothesis is correct and that formaldehyde 
is the first product of the synthesis, two questions await an answer. 
Firstly, how is the condensation of the aldehyde caused ; secondly, 
through what intermediate stages do the compounds pass ? 

The vital s)mthesis differs essentially from that carried out in the 
laboratory in affording optically active products. It might be sup- 
posed that the plant manufactures inactive racemic hexose and uses the 
laevo-Jsomerides for purposes which are still unknown. In spite of 
frequent search, however, it has never been possible to detect /-glucose or 
/-fructose in the leaves of plants, and the work of Brown and Morris 
leaves hardly any doubt that hexoses of the ^series and their poly- 
saccharides are the only products of assimilation.^ 

The living organism is not satisfied with merely elaborating a par- 
ticular sugar, but shapes it in a definite manner to a definite space con 
figuration. 

Fischer has pictured the carbon dioxide or formaldehyde as enter- 
ing into combination with the complicated optically active protoplasm 
of the chlorophyll granule, and being synthesised to optically active 
carbohydrates under the influence of the asymmetry of the protoplasm 
molecule. 

The formaldehyde elements are received one after the other, and 
superposed according to a definite plan until six are united, when the 
completed dextro-glucose or fructose molecule is split off and the pro- 
cess begins anew, only optically active substances being formed. 
S}nithesis by laboratory methods leads to optically inactive forms, 
though apparently chemical s)mthesis does not take place entirely 
symmetrically when several asymmetric carbon atoms are present. 
Fischer, for example, has failed to isolate any other racemic hexose 
than o^crose (/S-acrose and formose being considered to have branched 

1 For the natural occurrence of <{/-galactoae see p. 47. The natural pentoses belong 
to the /-series. 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 CARBOHYDRATES 

chains) from the condensation of formaldehyde or glycerose, whereas 
had this synthesis been entirely symmetric, several isomerides should 
have been formed at the same time. 

It is now generally agreed that the protoplasm<of the chlorophyll 
granule contains enzyme elements, and that it is these which occasion 
synthesis. The protoplasmic complex may be r^^rded as built up of 
a series of associated templates (enzymes) which serve as patterns for 
the maintenance of vital processes and of growth. The assimilated 
carbon dioxide, either before or after condensation to formaldehyde, is 
brought into contact with these templates in the protoplasm, and con- 
tiguous molecules are united to form the complete sugar, shaped 
according to the structure of the template. The enzyme specific for 
each particular hexose when incorporated in the protoplasmic complex 
may well serve as the template for its manufacture. Maltase, for ex- 
ample, might occasion the formation of o^lucose, emubin that of 
/3-glucose, lactase that of galactose, and invertase, or some similar 
enzyme, that of fructose. The existence of contiguous maltase and 
invertase ^ branches in the protoplasmic complex might determine the 
formation of glucose and fructose in contiguity, and these might unite 
to cane sugar. Again two glucose molecules in contiguity might unite 
to maltose, or a series formed in contiguity might remain potentially 
active so that a number would unite and give rise to a starch molecule, 
a- and /3-glucose would remain as such so long as they were incorpo- 
rated with the protoplasm ; when split off into the cell fluid they would 
no doubt tend to pass over into the equilibrated mixture. 

Certain claims have been made in reference to the synthesis of 
carbohydrates from simple substances by means of sunlight or ultra- 
violet light. Thus glycerol in alkaline solution is partly converted 
into a-acrose (Bierry and Henri) after exposure to ultraviolet light ; 
after many months in sunlight sorbose has been obtained from a 
mixture of formaldehyde and oxalic acid (Inghilleri). 

^ Armstrong's recent researches suggest that invertase is compatible, at one and the 
same instant, with both glucose and fructose, so that its presence in the protoplasmic com- 
plex would, under suitable conditions, lead to the formation of cane sugar. As already 
noted (Chap. III.) Pottevin considers that fructose is compatible, not with invertase, but 
with a new enzyme. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 97 



The Synthesis of Disaccharides. 

Although in the hands of Fischer the problem of the synthetical pre* 
paration of the natural simple carbohydrates — the monosaccharides — 
has been solved, the next step, the synthesis of the disaccharides, still 
awaits a satisfactory solution. 

The earliest synthetical disaccharide was obtained by Fischer by the 
action of cold concentrated hydrochloric acid on glucose. The com- 
pound obtained was termed isomaltose on account of the resemblance 
to maltose, from which it differed in being nonfermentable. The pro- 
cess had the disadvantage that it could not be controlled, so that only 
small quantities of disaccharide were formed together with considerable 
quantities of dextrin-like products. It was shown subsequently, as 
described later, that both maltose and isomaltose are formed by this 
process. A more hopeful method, based on Michael's glucoside syn- 
thesis, appeared to be the combinaticm of acetochloro glucose with the 
sodium salt of a hexose. This method has been repeatedly used in 
attempting to synthesise cane sugar, and Marchlewski claimed to have 
been successful in artificially obtaining this sugar. Subsequent workers 
have found it impossible to confirm his results, and they are to be 
queried also for other reasons, chief of which is the observation of 
Fischer and Armstrong that cKompounds of glucose in presence of 
alkali undergo rearrangement to )8-compounds. These observers failed 
t04)repare o-phenyl glucoside from a-acetochloro glucose and sodium 
phenolate, obtaining instead the )8-phenyl glucoside. Sucrose, a deriva- 
tive of a-glucose, should not therefore be formed. The evidence 
brought forward by Marchlewski in proof of the formation of cane 
sugar was also very inadequate. There are thus* no grounds for accept- 
ing this synthesis. 

By the interaction of acetochloro galactose with sodium glucosate 
or of acetochloro glucose with sodium galactosate, Fischer and Arm- 
strong obtained disaccharides of the type of maltose which they termed 
galactosido-glucose and glucosido-galactose. These sugars were suf- 
ficiently closely related to the natural products to be hydrolysed by 
enzymes. Top yeast was without action, bottom yeast was able to 
ferment both disaccharides. They were hydrolysed by emulsin, but 
not affected by maltase or invertase. Both reduced Fehling*s solution, 
formed phenyl osazones and osones, but could not be obtained in a 

7 



\ 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 CARBOHYDRATES 

crystalline state. The tgalactosido-glucose possessed very great simi- 
larity to the natural sugar melibiose both in structure, similarity of the 
phenyl and bromophenyl osazones and in physiol(^ical behaviour, and 
it is very probable that these, disacchar ides are identical 

Quite recently Fischer and Delbriick have made use of /3-acetobromo 
\} glucose to effect the synthesis of disaccharides allied to trehalose. 
When acetobromo glucose is shaken in dry ethereal solution with silver 
carbonate and traces of water are added from time to time, bromine is 
eliminated and two molecules* are joined through the intermediary of 
an oxygen atom to form an octacetyl disaccharide : 

2Ci4H],0,6r + H,0 » CuH„0„ + aHBr 
This is obtained both crystalline and in an amorphous form, the latter 
being regarded as a mixture of isomerides. 

These acetyl compounds when hydrolysed by cold barium hydroxide 
( solution are converted into disaccharides. That from the ctystalline 
acetate, termedi isotrehalose, differs from trehalose in optical rotatory 
power [a]o - 93•4^ but resembles it closely in chemical properties. It 
is a colourless amorphous powder, which does not reduce Fehling's 
solution and is easily hydrolysed to glucose when boiled with dilute 
mineral acids. The > disaccharide from the amorphous acetate is re- 
garded as a mixture, it has [a]o about - i *3^ It is remarkable in being 
partially hydrolysed both by yeast] extract and by emulsin. 
Consideration of the constitutional formula of trehalose — 



CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHv 
CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH/ 

I o ! 

shows that three stereoisomerides are possible as the two carbons in 
clarendon type are asymmetric. Using the prefixes a and /3 in the 
same sense as in the acetobromo glucoses, these isomerides may be 
described as aa, fifi or a/3, according as the constituent glucoses are 
present in the aor fi form. The behaviour of the new sugars towards 
enzymes may possibly be expected to give a clue to their structure. 

The same method has been extended by Fischer to the synthesis of 
non-reducing tetrasaccharides from acetobromo lactose and acetobromo 
cellobiose. In both cases the products were contaminated with re- 
ducing disaccharide and they could not be purified 



Digitized by 



Google 



\ 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 99 

Synthesis by Enzymes. 

Far more interesting than the above method of synthesis is that 
effected by means of enzymes. There can be no doubt that, in the 
plant, enzymes function as synthetical agents. 

The first to observe the synthetical or, as he termed it, reversible 
action of enzymes was Croft Hill. Hill proved that the hydrolysis 
of maltose by dried yeast extract in concentrated solutions was not 
complete, and that, starting from glucose alone in concentrated solu- 
tion, a disaccharide was produced by the action of maltase. This sugar 
he at first considered to be maltose, a conclusion controverted by Em- 
merling, who, repeating Croft Hill's experiments, considered the product 
to be isoma\tose identical with that obtained by Fischer by the action 
of acid on glucose. Subsequently Croft Hill admitted the chief pro- 
duct to be an isomeride of maltose, but he r^;arded it as different from 
isomaltose and termed it revertose. He still claimed that maltose is 
also formed in small quantity. E. F. Armstrong considers that the | 
product of the synthetical action of maltase on glucose is £f<nnaltose ^ 
identical with that produced by the action of hydrochloric acid on 
glucose, and shows that the two products agree in being hydrolysed 
by emulsin though not by maltase. They are accordingly regarded 
as having the structure of glucose /3-glucosides. Croft Hill showed 
that his synthetical product was almost completely hydrolysed on 
dilution, indicating that the process is reversible, or that at all events 
the same mixture of enzymes which effects synthesis is able to hydro- 
lyse the s)mthetic product An explanation of the removal of the 
isomaltose, a fact which it was at first somewhat difficult to bring into 
line, is perhaps afforded by the discovery of emulsin in yeast by Henry 
and Auld. 

A disaccharide is also formed when a mixture of glucose and j 
galactose in concentrated solution is left in contact with lactase. This 
is undoubtedly isomeric with milk sugar but differs from it in being 
completely fermented by bottom yeast. 

The process by which a monosaccharide is converted into a disac- 
charide in presence of a synthetical catalyst must be r^arded as pre- 
cisely similar to that by which a- and /3-glucoses are converted into 
the two methyl-glucosides. Glucose on condensation should give rise 
to both maltose and isomaltose synthesised from a- and )8-glucose 
respectively. The proportion of each ultimately present in the equi- 
librium will depend to some extent on the proportions of the two 
glucoses in their equilibrated mixture and on their (possibly unequal) 



7* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



100 CARBOHYDRATES 

rates of condensation. This reasoning should apply so long as the 
condensation is uncontrolled. Inasmuch as hydrolysis under the in- 
fluence of enzymes is an absolutely selective process, as opposed to 
hydrolysis by acids which is general in character, it is to be supposed 
that synthesis under the influence of enzymes is likewise a controlled 
operation. 

The proof that hydrochloric acid forms both tsaimltose and maltose 
from glucose was first given by E. F. Armstrong. The method of 
purification of the synthetical isomaltose mixture adopted by Fischer, 
vtjs.y fermentation of the neutralised product with brewers* yeast, 
would have destroyed any maltose which had been formed. Armstrong 
fermented a portion of the product with 5. Marzzanus, a yeast which 
does not contain maltase and therefore is without action on maltose, 
in order to destroy the unchanged glucose. The resulting solution con- 
tained both maltose and i^^maltose, and was partially hydrolysed by 
both maltase and emulsin. To remove the ir^maltose it was submitted 
to the joint action of emulsin and S. Marxianus. It was not 
found possible to obtain the maltose in a crystalline condition from 
this solution, but the character of the osazone formed and the 
biolc^ical bdiaviour of the sugar leave little doubt of the presence 
of this sugar. Another portion of the original synthetical sugar was 
fermented with 5. intertnedianSy and so freed from glucose and mal- 
tose. The resulting wtwnaltose solution behaved in all respects as de- 
scribed by Fischer, 

The manner of the synthesis by enzymes is still a matter of 
dispute. It is urged on the one hand that enzymes produce by 
synthesis the same bodies which they hydrolyse ; on the other hand, 
it is suggested that the action of the enzyme is restricted to the 
formation of a compound isomeric with that normally hydrolysed by 
the enz5mie. A third»view is that altogether distinct enzymes effect 
synthesis. 

The arguments in favour of accepting the first view have been 
clearly put by Bayliss (see the Monograph on Enzyme Action in this 
series), and need not be repeated here. 

The question is complicated by the fact that the catalysts used are 
all mixtures of several enzymes. Yeast extract (maltase) contains at 
least five sucroclasts; emulsin, according to a recent work, at least 
three — prunase, amygdalase and lactase. 

Armstrong has shown that the main product in the case of the 
action of yeast extract on glucose is isomaltose ; in the case of emulsin 
the main product is maltose. Whilst it could not be definitely asserted 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS loi 

that theisomerides were not also fonned, their amount in any case must 
have been small. 

Bayliss' contention that, if the synthetic body is incapable of being 
hydrolysed by the enzymes present, action should continue until all 
the glucose is converted into disaccharide, does not sufficiently take 
into account the equilibrium resulting from the combination of enzyme 
and sugar and the great retarding influence of glucose — both thoroughly 
established facts. Further, each molecule of disaccharide formed 
liberates a molecule of water, thereby diluting the solution and lessen- 
ing the opportunity for synthetic action. Lastly, enzyme extracts, 
unlike inoiganic catalysts, do not remain of constant strength. 

' It is difficult to attribute the formation of isomaltose in Croft 
Hill's experiments entirely to emulsin. The amount in brewers* yeast 
is but small ; Henry and Auld demonstrated its presence under very 
special conditions. A cold-water extract of the dried yeasts used by 
the writer has never been found to have any hydrolytic action on 
/8-methyl glucoside. 

The problem is somewhat more simple in the case of the synthesis 
of glucosides by emulsin : amygdalin from mandelonitrile glucoside 
and glucose (Emmerling), salicin from saligenin and glucose (Visser) 
being claimed to have been obtained in this manner. Van't Hoff in 
191 o has added glycerol glucoside. 

The reaction — 

alcohol + glucose ^glucoside + water 
is practically thermoneutral and may be compared to the formation of 
ester from alcohol and acid. The classical experiments of Menschut- 
kin have taught the close relationship between the constitution of the 
alcohols and the limit of esterification. Using equimolecular quantities 
of alcohols with the same acid, primary alcohols yield about 80 per 
cent, of ester, secondary alcohols some 50 per cent and tertiary alcohols 
only 10 per cent, of ester. Van't Hoff has proved that the constitution 
of the alcohol has the same effect in the formation of glucosides. 

The formation of glucoside is attended by expansion so that a ready 
means was afforded of accurately measuring change. In the case of 
salicin a mixture, made of salicin, saligenin and emulsin and wetted 
with a solution saturated with glucose, salicin and saligenin was placed 
in a dilatometer kept at 37°. The contraction observed corresponded 
to complete hydrolysis of the salicin : similar results were obtained 
with arbutin and aesculin, no indication of synthetical action (expan- 
sion) being observed. This is in conformity with the general ex- 
perience as to the possibility of completely hydrolysing these glucosides 



Digitized by 



Google 



102 CARBOHYDRATES 

in dilute solution, and proves that emulsin acts nonnally as a hydrolys- 
ing agent even in the most concentrated solution. The tertiary glu- 
cosides are accordingly not synthesised from concentrated solutions of 
their components. 

But few secondary glucosides other than amygdalin and the man- 
delonitrile glucosides are of natural occurrence and natural primary 
glucosides are unknowa Resource was therefore had to synthetic 
glucosides, in particular glycerol glucoside. A mixture containing 
glucose, glycerol and water in the proportion of 2 : 4 : i with emulsin 
rapidly became converted into glucoside until some 70 per cent, was 
present in this form. The analogy of glucoside and ester formation is 
therefore complete. Van't HoflTs synthesis of glycerol glucoside has 
been confirmed by Bayliss. 

Van't HofFs results would suggest that in the case of the enzyme 
synthesis of a disaccharide the one reacting glucose molecule is acting 
as a primary alcohol. In other words, the junction between the two 
molecules is of type B (p. 87). 

It will be observed that in no case has the synthetic glucoside been 
isolated and the identity with the natural product confirmed. The 
claims of synthetic action are based on certain changes in the optical 
rotatory power or reducing action, and in certain cases — the reputed 
syntheses of salicin and cane sugar — they are without foundation. 

Van't HofT has established th/s important point that, even in a solu- 
tion completely saturated with glucose, emulsin can act as a hydrolytic 
agent. This fact is completely in opposition to the view advocated by 
Bayliss that the change is a reversible one depending on the attainment 
of an equilibrium. 

The question cannot be discussed here at greater length, but 
obviously much experimental work remains to be done before it can 
be settled. The fact that enzymes bring about a controlled synthesis 
of disaccharides is, however, clearly established. 

The third view that synthesis and hydrolysis are effected by different 
enzymes, though not overlooked by earlier workers, has been brought 
into prominence by the recent experimental work of Rosenthaler. 
Emulsin in presence of hydrogen cyanide and benzaldehyde brings 
about the formation of optically active benzaldehyde cyanohydrin, a 
substance which it also hydrolyses. Saturation of the enzyme solution 
with magnesium sulphate or half-saturation with ammonium sulphate 
produces a precipitate which is soluble in water. The filtrate has no 
synthetic activity, but is able to effect hydrolysis as before ; the pre- 
cipitate possesses synthetic activity and some hydrolytic activity. It 



Digitized by 



Google 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 103 

is considered by Rosenthaler that emulsin consists of two distinct 
enzymes, one promoting synthesis, the other causing hydrolysis of 
benzaldehyde cyanohydrin. 

An interesting synthesis of sah'cin and other glucosides is that 
studied by Ciamician and Ravenna. When plants — well-grown maize 
plants were chosen — are inoculated with glucosides or their aromatic 
products of hydrolysis a^. reversible change takes place resulting in a 
chemical equilibrium. Salicin is in part hydrolysed, saligenin in part 
transformed into salicin, the final ratio in the full grown plant of com- 
bined to free saligenin being i : 2. On taking a large number of plants 
it was possible to 1 isolate the salicin synthesised in this manner. Con- 
firmation of this work appears desirable. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VII. 

THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES. 

The term glucoside is applied to a large number of bodies having 
the property in common of furnishing a glucose and one or more other 
products when hydrolysed by acids. They are resolved with the addi- 
tion of the elements of water into simpler compounds. Representatives 
of nearly every class of organic compound occur in plants, chiefly in 
the fruit, bark and roots, in combination with a sugar which is in most 
cases dextroglucose. These compounds are glucose ethers of alcohols, 
acids, phenols, etc ; they correspond in structure to the simple methyl 
glucosides, and the general formula of a glucoside is accordingly 
written : — 

R— O—CH . [CH . OHi . CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) 

where R represents the organic radicle. It is noteworthy that the 
vegetable bases are only seldom found in the form of glucosides. 

The glucosides correspond to a certain extent to the paired glucu- 
ronic acid derivatives previously mentioned. In both instances more 
or less reactive specific substances are combined with the sugar residue 
to form indifferent and frequently more soluble substances. 

Glucosides are obtained by extraction of the plant substance with 
water or alcohol, an operation often conveniently performed in a Soxh- 
let apparatus. It is necessary in the majorityjof cases first to destroy 
the accompanying enzyme when water is used as solvent If this 
operation be omitted the glucoside is destroyed in the process of exT 
traction. The purification of the extract is often a matter of difficulty 
owing to the scanty proportion of glucoside present 

The glucosides as a class are generally colourless crystalline solids, 
having a bitter taste and laevo-rotatory optical power. Some of the 
best-known glucosides are the amygdalin of the almond and other 
rosaceous plants, the salicin of the willow and the sinigrin of the 
cruciferae. 

The glucosides are all hydrolysed by heating with mineral acids to 
sugar and an organic residue. They are decomposed at very different 

104 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 105 

rates, some glucosides(^^., gynocardin) being extremely resistant to 
acid hydrolysis. 

In the majority of cases the glucosides are hydrolysed by enzymes. 
The appropriate cnzymG is contained in the same plant tissue, but in 
different cells, gaining access to the glucoside only when the tissue is 
destroyed. A great number of such enzymes exist, but it is too much 
to say that each glucoside has a special enzyme for its decomposition. 
The best-known glucoside splitting enzymes are the emulsin of almonds 
and the myrosin of black mustard seeds. Both these enzymes can 
effect hydrolysis of a number of glucosides. 

Emulsin is especially wide in its action. Since it is the specific 
enzyme for ^-alkyl glucosides, all glucosides hydrolysed by it are 
regarded as derivatives of /3-^lucose, though the fact that emulsin is a 
mixture of enzymes must not be lost sight of No glucoside deriva- 
tive of a^Iucose has so far been isolated 

The hydrolysis of glu(x>sides by myrosin is undoubtedly connected 
with their sulphur content 

The majority of the glucosides are derived from dextro-glucose but 
since more attention has been paid to the group, glucosides derived 
from a number of other carbohydrates have been discovered in plants 
and there is little doubt that fresh investigation will extend their 
number. Glucosides are known which are derived from d and /-ara- 
binose, /-xylose, ^ribose, from rhamnose and other methyl pentoses 
and from galactose, mannose and fructose. Glucosides containing 
carbohydrates other than glucose require special enzymes to effect 
their hydrolysis. 

Galactose has been identified in convallamarin, digitonin, robinin, 
sapotoxin, solanin. Mannose is found only in strophantin. 

Fructose is found in alliin (from garlic), and in the saponins 
from Sapindus rarak and Aesculus hippocastanum, 

Rhamnose is a constituent of baptisin, convallamarin, datiscin, 
, frangulin, fustin, glycyphyllin, hesperidin, kampheritrin, ouabain, 
naringin, quercitrin, robinin, rutin, 5a/<>Mkr-saponin, solanin, strophan- 
tin, trifolin, turpethein, xarithorhamnin. 

Pentoses or methylpentoses have also been found in antiarin, 
barbaloin, convolvulin, gentiin, jesterin, quinovin, saponin, turpethein, 
vemin, vicianin. 

Some glucosides yield two or more monosaccharides on hydrolysis. 
In such cases these are united as di- or trisaccharides. Using appro- 
priate enzymes, the sugar groups may be removed one at a time, and 
new glucosides are formed. Thus amygdalin contains two glucose 



Digitized by 



Google 



io6 CARBOHYDRATES 

residues, one of which is removed by an enzyme present in yeast and 
termed amygdalase. The new glucoside so formed was termed 
mandelonitrile glucoside : it has since been found in plants and named 
prunasin. 

Both on account of the very small quantity of a glucoside usually 
present in a plant, and the fact that glucosides do not as a rule form 
insoluble characteristic derivatives which allow of their isolation, it is 
difficult to discover new glucosides and still more so to determine 
their nature. The introduction of biochemical methods has much 
facilitated work of this kind. Bourquelof s biological method has led 
to the discovery of several new glucosides, and ter Meulen has estab- 
lished the nature of the sugar component in several instances. Ter 
Meulen makes use of the fact (p. 79) that an enzyme is only com- 
patible with and therefore only enters into combination with that 
sugar, the simple glucosidic compounds of which it is able to hydrolyse. 
He has investigated the rate of hydrolysis of a glucoside by the 
appropriate enzyme in presence of a number of the simple sugars. 
Only one of these sugars retards the change ; the others are almost 
without influence. The glucoside in question is considered to be a 
derivative of that sugar which retarded the hydrolysis. 

For instance, rhamninose alone retards the hydrolysis of xanthp- 
rhamnin ; glucose alone retards the decomposition of salicia or of 
amygdalin. In the case of glucosides of which the nature of the sugar 
component was not absolutely established, it was shown that aesculin, 
arbutin, coniferin, indican, sinigrin and several other glucosides con- 
taining mustard oils are derivatives of ^-glucose. 

Bourquelot's biological method of examining plants for glucosides 
consists in the addition of emulsin to an extract of the plant and the 
determination of the changes in optical rotation and cupric reducing 
power after a period of incubation, A change indicates the presence 
of /3-glucosides and its magnitude gives a rough indication of their 
quantity. 

In this manner taxicatin, C^ll^Ojt has been discovered in Tazus 
baccata (Lefebvre) and the presence of aucubin demonstrated in a 
number of species of plantago (Bourdier). 

The use of invertase in the same manner affords a test for the 
presence of sucrose or raffinose. 

A number of the better-known glucosides are given in the follow- 
ing table which also shows the products of hydrolysis. They are 
classified under alcohols, phenols, aldehydes, etc., according to the 
nature of the non-sugar part of the molecule (see Table XII., p. 107). 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 107 

TABLE XII. 
Natural Glucosidbs. 



GlncMide. 


m.p. 


Products of Hydrolysis. 








Phenols. 


Arbutin . 


. Ci^HiA 


187° 


Glucose + hydroquinone 


Baptisin . 


. . C«H«Oi, 


240" 


Rhamnose + baptigenin 

Rhanmose + phloretin 

Rhamnose + 2 glucose + hesperetin 


GlycjrphvUin 
Hesperidin 




175' 
251° 


Iridin . 


. . C«H«0,, 


208° 


Glucose + irigenin 


Methyl arbutin . C^Hyf), 


175° 


Glucose + hydroquinone methyl ether 


Naringin 


, 


1700 


Rhamnose + glucose + narigenin 
Glucose + phloretin 


Phloridzin 


, . C„H«0„ 


170" 








Alcohols. 


Coniferin 


. C„HaOg 


185" 


Glucose + conifervl alcohol 
Glucose + saligenm + benzoic acid 


P<w)ulin . 
Salicin . 


• C^H^oJ 


i8o» 


. C„H«0, 


201° 


Glucose + saligenin 


Syringin 


. C„H«0, 


191" 


Glucose + syringenin 

Aldehydes. 


Amygdalln 


. . C„H„0.,N 


200'' 


2 Glucose + ^{-mandelonitrile 


Dhurrin . 


. . C„H„0,N 


— 


Glucose + /-oxymandelonitrile 


Helicin . 


. . C„H„0, 


— 


Glucose + salicylaldehyde 


Linamarin 


. . C„H„0,N 


141° 


Glucose + acetonecyanhvdrin 
Glucose + racemic mandelonitrile 


Prulaurasin 


. . C„H,,0,N 


122° 


Prunasin 


. CmHhOsN 


147" 


Glucose + if-mandelonitrile 


Salinigrin 


, . c H ;o 


195° 


Glucose + m-oxybenzaldehyde 


Sambunigrin 


. . C„H„0,N 


I5I« 


Glucose + /-mandelonitrile 


Vicianin. 


• . C,.H„0„N 


160° 


1 Glucose + arabinose + </-mandelonitrile 
Acids. 


Convolvulin 


. C^H^O^ 


150° 


Glucose + rhodeose + convolvulinolic acid 


Gaultherin 


. . (^,nlo' 


lOO^* 


Glucose + meth^lsalicylate 


Jalapin . 


• ^ii^wOij 


131° 


Glucose + jalapmolic acid 


Strophandn 


• ^40"«8^19 




Rhamnose + mannose + strophantidin 
Oxycumann Derivatives. 


Aesculin . 


. . C„H„0, 


205<> 


Glucose + aesculetin 


Daphnin 


. . C„H„0, 


200'» 


Glucose + daphnetin 


Fraxin . 


• • c„hX 


3aoo 


Glucose + fraxetin 


Scopolin 


. c^hX 


2l8*> 


2 Glucose + scopoletin 


Skiminin 


. . C„H„0, 


210° 


Glucose + skimmetin 

Oxyanthraquinone Derivatives. 


FranguUn 


. . CmH„0, 


228** 


Rhamnose + emodin 


Polygonin 


. . CaH„0„ 


202° 


Glucose + emodin 


Ruberythric M 


:id . C„H„0„ 


258° 


Glucose + alizarin 

Oxyflavone Derivatives. 


Apiin 


• CjijHg^Olj 


228'' 


Apiose + apigenin 
Rhamnose + fisetin 


Fustin . 


• C3,H.j„0ij 


218'' 


Oossypitrin 


• ^iHjoOjj 


— 


Glucose + gossypetin 


Incarnatrin 


. . C,iH^O,, 


243° 


Glucose + quercetin 


Isoquercitrin 


. CjijRj(jOjg 


217° 


Glucose + quercetin 


Lotusin . 


. . C^H,.0,,N 


— 


2 Glucose + HCN + lotoflavin 


Querdmeritrin 
Quercitrin 


• Cj,HgflO,a 


247" 


Glucose + quercetin 


. C„H„0„ 


183° 


Rhamnose + quercetin 


Rutin . 


• C„H,„0,„ 


i84» 


Glucose + rhamnose + quercetin 


Serotin . 


. C^H^O,, 


245° 


Glucose + quercetin 


Sophorin 


. c>,,o;, 




Rhamnose + glucose + sophoretin 


Xanthorhamni 


n . C„H^Oa, 


•"" 


2 Rhamnose + galactose + rhamnetin 



Digitized by 



Google 



io8 



CARBOHYDRATES 



TABLE XII. {omHniudi. 



Glocotide. 


m.p. 


Prodncts of Hydro^ftit. 








Mustard Oils. 


Glucotropadin . Ci4H„O.NS,K 





Olucoee + benxyl isothioqranate + KHSO4 


Sinalbin . 


. . C^H«0„NA 


I38O 


Glucose + sinapin add sulphate + acrinyl- 

isothiocyanate 
Glucose + allyl isothiocyanate + KHSO4 


Sinigrin . 


• CioH„OpNS,K 


I26« 








Various, 


Aucubin . 


. . C,,HijO, 





Glucose + aucubigenin 


Barbaloin 


. . C„H,,0« 


-« 


<i-arabinose + aloemodin 


Calmatambin 


, . CjaHjyjOlS 


144** 


Glucose + calmatambetin 


Datiscein 


. . c^iH,,o;, 


iqo- 


Rhamnose + datiscetin 


Digitalin 


• *^»^M*^14 


217® 


Glucose + digitalose + digitaligenin 
Glucose + galactose + digitogenin 


Digitonin 


. . C^H«,0^ 


225« 


Digitoxin 


• ^!W^f*^ll 


145^ 


2 Digitozose + digitoxigenin 


Gentiin . 


. C^H^gOj^ 


274* 


Glucose + xylose + ^entienin 
Glucose + gentiogentn 
Glucose + HCN + C^HsO^ 


Gentiopicrin 


• • c,"H"or 


191' 




• . C„H„0 N 


162'' 


Indican . 


. . C„H„0,N 


100° 


Glucose + indoxyl 


Kampheritrin 


. . cXoL 


20I» 


2 Rhamnose + kampherol 


Qiiinovin 


■ • C„H^O, 


— 


Quinovose -^ quinovaic acid 


Saponarin 


• C„H„0, 


— 


Glucose + saponaietin 

Glucose + galactose + sapogenins 


Saponins 




— 


Vemin . 


. CmH„0,N, 


'^~ 


if-Ribose + guanine 



The better-known glucoside-splitting enzymes are grouped in Table 
XIII. together with the glycosides they decompose. Emulsin from 
almonds hydrolyses aesculin, amygdalin, androsin, arbutin, aucubin, 
bankankosin, calmatambin, coniferin, daphnin, dhurrin, gentiopicrin, 
helicin, incarnatrin, indican, melatin, oleuropein, picein, prulaurasin, 
prunasin, salicin, sambunigrin, syringin, taxicatin, verbenalin. 



TABLE XIII. 
Glucosidoclastic Enzymes. 



Enxyme. 




EoAulsin • • • . 
Pninasc 

Amygdalase .... 
Gaultherase .... 

Linase 

Myrosin .... 
Rhamnase .... 


TMany natural glucosides 
\ Synthetical iS-glucosides 

Prunasin and many other natural 
glucosides 

Amygdalin 

Gaultherin 

Linamarin 

Sinigrin and sulphur glucosides 

Xan&orhamnin 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 109 

The Principal Glucosides. 

A few only of the glucosides have been selected for detailed com* 
ment, more particularly for the purpose of showing the relationship 
between their structure and their distribution in plants. Such data, 
when more complete, will afford preliminary material for the differentia- 
tion of species upon a purely chemical basis as has been indicated by 
Miss Wheldale. At present, since the knowledge of the glucosides is 
chiefly based on the investigation of substances used for medicinal 
purposes, only a banning has been made in this direction. 

ArdtOin, a colourless, bitter, crystalline substance, is obtained, 
together with methyl arbutin, from the leaves of the bear berry, a small 
evei^^reen shrub (Arduous uva ursi), and from many genera in the 
Ericacea, and yields hydroquinone and glucose when hydrolysed by 
means of emulsin or mineral acids : — 

C„Hi A + H,0 - C,H„0, + C,H,0, 

Hydroquinone is a powerful antiseptic: hence the pharmacological 
value of arbutin, which has also a diuretic action. Methyl arbutin is 
one of the few glucosides which have been artificially synthesised. 
Michael prepared it by the interaction of hydroquinone methyl ether 
and acetochloro glucose. 

Commercial arbutin contains methyl arbutin ; to purify it, it is dis- 
solved in alcohol, precipitated by potassium hydroxide and the pre- 
cipitate, collected, washed and decomposed with calcium ^arbonate 
(H^rissey). 

When arbutin is hydrolysed by emulsin the quinol formed becomes 
slightly oxidised by the oxydase present in the enzyme and the solution 
darkens in colour. Methyl arbutin which yields quinol methyl ether 
on hydrolysis does not darken in solution. It is hydrolysed more 
rapidly than arbutin. 

Bourquelot and Fichtenholz have made an extensive study of the 
distribution of arbutin in the leaves of Fyrus species. Fear leaves 
{Pyrus communis) contain as much as i '2 to 1*4 per cent, of the 
glucoside which can be extracted by ethyl acetate. None could be 
detected in Cydonia vulgaris^ Mcdus communis^ Sorbus aucuparioy or 
5. tormincdis^ all of which were at one time classed with Pyrus : the 
modern classification is thus justified on biochemical grounds. 

The leaves of certain varieties of Pyrus turn black when they fall ; 
these contain arbutin which is h)^olysed to quinol by the leaf enzyme, 
the quinol in turn being acted on by an oxydase to form the black 
substance. In other varieties a golden yellow tint first appears which 



Digitized by 



Google 



I lo CARBOHYDRATES 

then gives place to black. These varieties are shown to contain 
methyl arbutin, they produce at first a yellow and not a black oxida- 
tion product 

Phloridzin^ which is found in the bark of apple, pear, cherry, plum 
and other rosaceous trees, is remarkable for the property it possesses 
of causing glucosuria when taken internally. Emulsin is without 
action on it : mineral acids form glucose and phloretin, Ci^H^^O^, which 
is a condensation product of/-oxyhydratropic acid > and phloroglucinol. 

Phloridzin has the formula — 

(CeHuO, . 0)(OH),C,H, . CO . CHMe . CeH4(0H) 

Phloretin is a component also of Glycyphyllin the glucoside of the 
leaves ol Smilax glycyphylla where it is combined with rhamnose. 

The phloroglucinol complex is present in the aromatic part of a 
large number of glucosides. 

Salicin^ a colourless, crystalline, bitter substance, is the active con- 
stituent of willow bark ; it has long been used as a remedy against 
fever and in cases of acute rheumatism. It is hydrolysed by emulsin 
to glucose and saligenin (<?-oxybenzyl alcohol), and has the formula 
CgHuOg . O . CgH^ . CHjOH. Saligenin yields salicylic acid on oxi- 
dation, but has the advantage of being less irritant than this acid or its 
salts, and therefore does not produce digestive disturbances when ad- 
ministered medicinally. 

Salicin occurs in many but not all species of Salix^ also in poplars 
and in the flower buds of meadow-sweet Sptrtea ultnaria. In the 
willow it is found in the leaves and female flowers as well as in the 
bark ; the leaves and twigs of willows also contain a specific enzyme 
salicase which hydrolyses it (Sigmund). 

Salicin forms bromo and chloro derivatives which are hydrolysed 
by emulsin. 

When shaken with benzoyl chloride a monobenzoyl derivative is 
obtained in which the benzoyl group is in the sugar nucleus and not 
attached to the alcohol group of saligenin. This compound is identical 
with the natural glucoside populin found in the bark of a number of 
species of poplar [Populusy According to Weevers populin is hydro- 
lysed by an enzyme in Populus monilifera to salicin and benzoic acid. 
Emulsin is without action on populin. 

Helicin^ the glucoside of salicylic aldehyde, is obtained on oxidation 
of salicin with dilute nitric acid. It has not been found to occur 
naturally, but was synthesised by Michael from salicylaldehyde and 
acetochloro glucose. Emulsin hydrolyses helicin and also its hydrazone 
and oxime. Helicin was coupled by Fischer with hydrogen cyanide 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES in 

to yield a s}mthetic cyano^^etic glucoside from which a further series 
of glucosides were obtained 

SalifUgriny the glucoside of w-hydroxy benzaldehyde, is isomeric 
with helicin. It was only found in one species {Salix discolor) out of 
thirty-three samples of willow and poplar examined by Jowett and 
Potter. 

GaultheriHy the glucoside of methyl salicylate, is widely distributed 
in plants. It is not hydrolysed by emulsin, but gaultherase, the enzyme 
of Gaultheria procumbens and other plants, and mineral acids decom- 
pose it into glucose and methyl salicylate. 

Cofdferin^ the glucoside of the fir-tree, is of importance as the start- 
ing-point for the synthesis of vanillin which is formed from it by oxi- 
dation with chromic acid. 

It yields glucose and coniferyl alcohol when hydrolysed by emulsin, 
and has the formula : — 

(C,H„0, . O) . CeH,(0Me) . CH ; CH . CH,OH 

By careful oxidation glucovanillin is formed, and this may be oxi- 
dised to glucovanillic acid or reduced to glucovanillyl alcohol. All 
three glucosides are hydrolysed by emulsin. 

A methoxy coniferin is syringin, the glucoside of the Syringa, which 
is likewise hydrolysed by emulsin to syringenin (methoxy coniferyl 
alcohol). 

Coumarin Glucosides. — Coumarin is very widely distributed in 
plants : there can be little doubt that this is present in the form of a 
glucoside but this has not yet been isolated. Several glucosides con- 
taining hydroxycoumarins are known. 

Skifntnin^Ci^YLifi^ydi constituent oi Skimmiajaponica, is the gluco- 
side of 4-hydroxycoumarin (skimmetin), which is isomeric if not identical 
with umbelliferone. 

Aesculin, CigHi^O^, found in horse-chestnut bark (Aesculus hippocas- 
tanum) and Daphnin^ a constituent of several • species of Daphne^ are 
glucosides of isomeric dihydroxy coumarins named aesculetin and 
daphnetin respectively. 

Scopolin, present in Scopoliajaponica^ is aesculin monomethyl ether. 
It is said to contain two molecules of glucose. 

Limettin^ the dimethyl ether of aesculin, is found in citrus. 

Fraxifiy C^^HigOiQ, found in the ash, and in species of Aesculus^ 
is the glucoside of a monomethyl ether of trihydroxycoumarin termed 
fraxetin. The position of the methyl group is uncertain. 

The following formulae show the relation of these glucosides : it 
is not known which hydroxyl is attached to the glucose residue : — 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 1 2 CARBOHYDRATES 

CH : CH . CO CH : CH 



o-'-o- 




OH OH 

Sldminetin. Aeseuletin. Daphnedn. Fraxetin. 

Hydroxyflavone Glucosides. 

These all give yellow dyes and in many of them the carbohydrate 
is rhamnose and not glucose. 

ApiiUy present in the leaves and seeds of parsley, celery, etc., is 
hydrolysed to glucose, the C^ carbohydrate apiose and apigenin 

HO /No .C.C,H4(0H) 
V^CO . CH 
OH 

According to Perkin the sugar residue is united to the hydroxyl 
group marked x. 

Fustin, the glucoside of fustic {Rhus cotinus)^ is hydrolysed to rham- 
nose and two molecules of fisetin, Ci^HjoO^ — 3, 3', 4' — trihydroxy- 
flavonal. 

no{^\o .C.CeH,{OH), 
JcO . C . OH 



Ucc 



GossypttriftyOTiQ of the glucosides present in Egyptian cotton flowers, 
yields glucose and gossypetin, CigH^^jOg (Perkin). 

IncamatriHy the glucoside of crimson clover (Trtfolium incamatum\ 
is hydrolysed by emulsin to glucose and quercetin (Rogerson). 

Quercimeritrin^ obtained from the flowers of Gossypium herbaceum^ is 
composed of glucose and quercetin, Ci^Hi^Oy, the sugar residue being 
united to one of the hydroxyl groups marked *. Acids hydrolyse it 
with difficulty. 

\/^0 . C . OH 
OH 

QuercitriHy found in the bark of Quercus iiiscolory is easily hydrolysed 
by acids to rhamnose and quercetin. 

Isoquercitrin accompanies quercimeritrin in cotton flowers. It diflers 
in being easily hydrolysed by acids to glucose and quercetin. 

RobtmHy the glucoside of the white azalea Robinia pseudacada^ is 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 113 

composed of glucose, rhamnose (two molecules) and robigenin, CigHj^jOg. 
It is closely related to quercitrin. 

Rutin, which is widely distributed in plants, is hydrolysed with 
difficulty by acids to glucose, rhamnose and quercetin. 

Serotin, present in Prunus serotina^ is easily hydrolysed to glucose 
and quercetin. 

Xanthorhamnin^ theglucoside of various species oiRhamnus^ is com- 
posed of galactose, rhamnose (two molecules) and rhamnetin CigHuO^ — 
quercetin monomethylether (Tanret). 



HO 
MeO 



} X^O .C.C.H,(0H), 
iJcO . C(OH) 



Indican. 

Plants which yield indigo do not contain the colouring matter 
as such but in the form of a glucoside indican, which is readily ex- 
tracted from the leaf by means of acetone. Indican yields glucose 
and indoxyl on hydrolysis ; the indoxyl (colourless) undergoes further 
oxidation to indigotin (the blue colouring matter) : — 

Ci4H„OeN + HjO = Q^yP^ + CaH^ON aCgH^ON + Oj = 2H,0 + CieH,oOjNj 
Indican. Glucose. Indoxyl. Indoxyl. Indigotin. 

Indigotin is readily obtained on hydrolysing indican with dilute 
acids containing a little ferric chloride as an oxygen carrier, but the 
yield under these conditions is not quantitative. In the plant an 
oxydase plays an important part in the formation of indigotin. 

Indican is also hydrolysed by a specific enzyme indimulsin, which 
is present in the leaves of the indigo plant. Emulsin also slowly 
hydrolyses indican, but its action is far less intense than that of the 
Indigofera enzyme preparations. The yield of indigotin in this case is 
also below the theoretical, especially when hydrolysis is slow : this is 
due to the great instability of indoxyl and in part also to the occlusion 
of indoxyl by the enzyme. It may be improved by adding a small 
quantity of sulphuric acid to the mixture at the commencement of the 
reaction. Technically it is of the greatest importance that the yield 
of natural indigo obtained on the manufacturing scale be a maximum. 

8 



1 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 1 4 CARBOHYDRATES 

Digitalis Glucosides, 

The leaves of the foxglove (JDigiimlis purfmna) contain at least five 
glucosides which form the active constituents of digitalis, but their 
nature has been but scantily investigated. Digitoxin, the most active 
principle, is insoluble in water ; on hydrolysis it forms digitox^^n and 
a sugar, C^jfi^ digitoxose. Digitalin possesses in a high degree the 
physiological action of digitalis, decreasing the frequency and increas* 
ing the force of the beat of the heart ; it }delds digitaligenin, glucose 
and digitalose, C7H14O5, on hydrolysis. 

Digitonin, which comprises one-half of the mixed glucosides of the 
seed, belongs to the saponins : it dissolves sparingly in water forming 
opalescent solutions which froth on agitation. It is hydrolysed to 
glucose (two molecules), galactose (two molecules) and digitogenin. 
Characteristic is the formation of a crystalline precipitate with 
cholesterol. 



Mustard Oil Glucosides. 

A number of plants belonging to the cruciferae yield glucosides 
containing sulphur. These give rise to mustard oils when hydrolysed 
by the enzyme myrosin which accompanies them in the plant The 
-■ best-known representatives of this class are sinigrin and sinalbin, 
found in the seeds of the black and white mustard. When the seed 
of black mustard is bruised and moi^ened, the odour of allylisothio- 
cyanate is easily recognised. The myrosin and the glucoside are con- 
tained in separate cells in the seed, and do not interact until brought 
tc^ethcr by the solvent 

The recognition of an ethereal oil as the active principle of black 
mustard dates from 1730 (Boerhave). Bussy was the first to isolate 
the glucoside, which he termed potassium myronate, and the accom- 
panying enzyme myrosin. Will and Komer gave the name sinigrin 
to the glucoside, and showed that it is hydrolysed to allylisothio- 
cyanate, glucose and potassium hydrc^en sulfate. 

CioH^O^NStK + HjO « CjH, . NCS + C«H|,0« + KHSO4 

Sinigrin was subsequently investigated in detail by Gadamer, who 
proposed the formula : — 

CaHj . N : C(S . CeH„OJ . 0(SO.,K) 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 115 

It is not hydrolysed by emulsin or by yeast extract or any known 
enzyme other than myrosin. As hydrolysis proceeds, the increasing 
quantity of acid potassium sulphate formed renders the ferment less 
active and ultimately stops its action. 

Guignard has very carefully investigated the localisation of myrosin 
in the plant It occurs in special cells with finely granular contents 
which are free from starch, chlorophyll, fatty matter and aleurone 
grains. 

Sinalbin is likewise hydrolysed by myrosin, which accompanies it 
in the seeds, to glucose, sinalbin mustard oil (^hydroxybenzylisothio- 
cyanate) and acid sinapin sulphate : — 

CjoHtfO^NA + H,0 « CjHuOe + C,H,0 . NCS + CjeH^OsN . HSO4 

Barium hydroxide converts acid sinapin sulphate into choline and 
sinapinic acid : — 

CeH,(OH)(OMc), . CH : CH . COJH 

It is of interest that the alcohol corresponding with this acid is 
syringenin, a constituent of the glucoside syringin. 

Pentosides. 

Barbalairiy C^Hifi^ is hydrolysed to ^-arabinose and aloemodin 
Ci^Hi^Og. This pentose was at first described under the name aloinose 
(Leger) : it affords one of the rare instances of the natural occurrence 
of both d and ^modifications of a carbohydrate {g.v. arabinose). l-Ara- 
binose is a constituent of the saponins as well as of gums and pentosans. 

Vemin, CioHig05N5,2H20, is guanine-rf-ribose. Originally dis- 
covered by Schulze in the seeds of Lupinus lutens^ it was recognised 
as a pentoside by Schulze andCastoro. It is identical with the guanosin 
obtained by Levene and Jacobs from nucleic acid and with the pentoside 
obtained by Andrlik from molasses. The pentose was recognised as 
^-ribose by Levene and Jacobs and used by them for the synthesis of 
^-allose and rf-altrose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 16 CARBOHYDRATES 



Amyg^dalin. 

Amygdalin is perhaps the best known and at the same time the 
most interesting of the glucosides ; it has formed the subject of re- 
peated and fruitful investigation ever since its discovery seventy-nine 
years ago, and even to-day the exact structure is not satisfactorily 
established. It is an example of a glucoside which contains nitrogen ; 
on hydrolysis it yields benzaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide and two mole- 
cules of glucose. It is found in large quantities in bitter almonds and 
in the kernels of apricots, peaches, plums and most fruits belonging to 
the Rosaceae. It is the antecedent of the so-called essence of bitter 
almonds, and is widely used as a flavouring material. Like most 
glucosides it is a colourless, crystalline, bitter substance soluble in 
water. 

The presence of hydrogen cyanide in the aqueous distillate of 
bitter almonds was observed at the very beginning of the nineteenth 
century by Bohm; the crystalline glucoside was first obtained by 
Robiquet and Boutron Charlard in 1830, who showed its connection 
with the essence of bitter almonds. 

In 1837 Liebig and Wohler found^that amygdalin was hydrolysed 
by a certain nitrogenous substance, also existing in the almond, to 
which they gave the name emulsin, in accordance with the equation — 

CaoHj„0„N + 2HaO = C7H.O + HCN + 2C,HiA 
Amygdalin. Benzaide- Hydrogen Glucose, 

hyde. cyanide. 

They proved it to be a glucoside of benzaldehyde cyanhydrin. 

Ludwig in 1856 pointed out that hot mineral acids hydrolyse 

amygdalin, giving rise to the same products as emulsin does. Schiff 

was the first to suggest that the two glucose molecules were united as 

a biose — 

CeHj . CH(CN) . O - C^H^oO^ . O . C^Hj A. 

and this view became generally accepted when it was shown by 
Fischer that amygdalin may be resolved by an enzyme, contained in 
yeast extract, into a molecule of glucose and one of a new glucoside 
which he termed mandelonitrile glucoside — 

CeH5.CH(CN).0-CeHiA 
Fischer came to the guarded conclusion that amygdalin was a deriva- 
tive either of maltose or of a olosely related diglucose. The view that 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 117 

amygdalin is a maltoside has passed into the literature {cf, Dunstan 
and Henry, British Association Report, York, 1906). 

Recent work, however, does not support this supposition. Neither 
in its behaviour towards enzymes nor in its chemical properties does 
amygdalin behave as a maltoside. 

When hydrolysed by means of strong hydrochloric acid, amygdalin 
gives /-mandelic acid, and Fischer's amygdonitrile glucoside is corre- 
spondingly rf-mandelonitrile glucoside.^ 

Amygdalin at first sight seems to present an exception to the rule 
that enzymes which attack /S-glucosidesJare strictly without action on 
a-glucosides, and vice versd, Emulsin hydrolyses amygdalin at both 
glucose junctions ; an enzyme in yeast extract (maltase ?) also attacks 
one of these. This junction must either be attackable by two distinct 
enzymes, or the enzymes in question must be mixtures and contain 
a common constituent. The latter hypothesis has proved to be correct 

Caldwell and Courtauld, in the course of a quantitative study of 
the hydrolysis of amygdalin by acids, showed tthat change takes place 
more readily at position Y in the molecule than 'at position X, as indi- 
cated in the formula, 

CgH, . CH(CN)0 . CJAyfi^ . O . C^H^fi^ 

The first product of acid hydrolysis is therefore the mandelonitrile gluco- 
side obtained by Fischer ; and this can be prepared in such manner. 
It was further shown that the action of yeast extract on amygdalin was 
due not to maltase but to the presence of a hitherto unknown enzyme 
appropriately termed amygdalase. This is more stable towards heat 
than maltase, and can be obtained almost free from maltase by prepar- 
ing the extract at an elevated temperature. 

The fact that an enzyme distinct from» maltase effects the hydro- 
lysis of amygdalin is clear proof that the glucoside does not contain 
maltose. Additional confirmation of this is afforded by the fact that 
the rate of hydrolysis of amygdalin either by amygdalase or by emulsin 
(ter Meulen) is npt affected by the presence of maltose. This last 
sugar should have slowed the reaction had it been a constituent of the 
glucoside. 

When amygdalin is hydrolysed by emulsin it is not possible at 
any stage of the reaction to detect the presence of a diglucose. In 
reality, under the influence of emulsin prepared from an aqueous 
extract of almonds, two actions are going on at the same time, vtz,^ 
hydrolysis at the centre Y, forming mandelonitrile glucoside and 

^ According to the existing nomenclature /-mandelic acid forms ^/-mandelonitrile. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 1 8 CARBOHYDRATES 

glucose, and, more slowly, hydrolysis of the mandelonitrile glucoside 
at X, forming benzaldehyde cyanohydrin and glucose. By interrupting 
the hydrolysis at the proper point it is possible to isolate the mandelo- 
nitrile glucoside. Such experiments prove that almond extract con- 
tains amygdalase in addition to the emulsin proper, which hydrolyses 
/3-glucosides. Amygdalase is entirely without action on /9-f;lucosides. 

The second enzyme in emulsin has been found in the leaves of 
many plants where it occurs without amygdalase. Since it was first 
found in the leaves of the common cherry laurel it has been named 
prunase and the mandelonitrile glucoside on which it acts is termed 
prunasin. 

*' Emulsin" thus contains two enzymes, amygdalase and prunase 
which act in turn on amygdalia It is a remarkable fact that prunase 
is unable to act until the molecule has first been simplified by the 
action of amygdalase : this is taken as proof that the second molecule 
of glucose in some way shields the prunasin part of the molecule from 
attack by prunase. This explains the many unsuccessful attempts to 
obtain the disaccharide from amygdalin by means of plant enzymes. 

This protective influence does not appear to apply, however, in the 
case of the enzymes present in the intestinal juice of the snail which, 
according to Giaja, are able to hydrolyse amygdalin in the first place to 
benzaldehyde cyanohydrin and a disaccharide, the latter subsequently 
undergoing further hydrolysis. The new carbohydrate is stated not to 
reduce Fehling's solution, that is, it is a disaccharide of the trehalose 
type. It has not been further investigated 

The amygdalin molecule is exceptional in containing several centres, 
marked X, Y, Z in the formula, 

NC . CHPh . O . CgHioOi . O . CeHiiOj, 
Z X Y 

totally different in their chemical nature, which are attackable by 

hydrolytic agents; its behaviour is, therefore, of the very greatest 

interest. 

Amygdalin yields the same products (glucose, benzaldehyde and 

hydrocyanic acid) when treated with emulsin as when heated with 

dilute hydrochloric acid. In each instance the primary formation of 

^it-mandelonitrile glucoside indicates that the biose junction Y is the 

first point to be attacked. The course of hydrolysis by concentrated 

acids is altogether different (Walker and Krieble). Concentrated 

hydrochloric acid hydrolyses it to amygdalinic acid and ammonia in 

the first place at centre Z ; subsequently, the amygdalinic acid breaks 

down at junction Y to /-mandelic acid glucoside and glucose so that 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 119 

junction X is the last point to be attacked. Concentrated sulphuric 
acid has very little tendency to attack the nitrile group at Z, the 
primary action being to eliminate e^mandelonitrile. The biose junction 
Y is the point most susceptible of attack by sulphuric acid at all con* 
centrations. Sulphuric acid decomposes benzaldehyde cyanohydrin 
(junction Z) only with extreme difficulty. 

In addition to ^mandelonitrile glucoside two other glucosides hav- 
ing the same composition are known. These are: prulaurasin, first 
described in the amorphous state under the name laurocerasin, and since 
obtained crystalline from the cheriy laurel by H6rissey ; and sambunigrin, 
separated by Bourquelot and H^rissey from the leaves of the common 
elder (Sambucus niger). These substances are both mandelonitrile 
glucosides ; their properties are set out in the following table : — 

TABLE XIV. 





M.-P. 


[a]p. 


Prunasin = dextro mandelonitrile glucoside .... 
Prulaurasin ^ racemic mandelonitrile glucoside 
Sambunigrin = laevo mandelonitrile glucoside 


147-150** 

I20-I22* 
151-152** 


-26-9° 
-76-3° 



Dunstan and Henry suggested that the differences between these lay 
in the nature of the sugar residue. This can hardly be the case, as 
they are all three attacked by emulsin, and therefore derivatives of 
/S^lucose. 

Prulaurasin is, in fact, a racemic mixture of the two stereoisomeric 
d- and /-mandelonitrile /9-glucosides, and is analogous to isoamygdalin, 
the racemic form of amygdalin, which was first prepared by the action 
of alkali on amygdalin by Walker and subsequently studied by Dakin ; 
it yields inactive mandelic acid when hydrolysed by acids; indeed, 
prulaurasin is obtained by acting on isoamygdalin with yeast extract^-** 
amygdalase (H6rissey). Sambunigrin is the /9-glucoside of /-mandelo* 
nitrile glucoside, and derived from a still unknown isomeride of amyg- 
dalin. Prulaurasin is obtained from either of the other two isomerides, 
when their aqueous solutions are rendered slightly alkaline. 

The true relationship of these glucosides was first established by 
Caldwell and Courtauld, and their conclusions have been entirely con- 
firmed by Bourquelot and H6rissey. More recently amygdonitrile 
glucoside has been discovered as a natural product, so that all three 
isomerides must play some part in plant economy. H6rissey found 
it in the young branches of Cerasus Padus ; Power and Moore have 



Digitized by 



Google 



I20 



CARBOHYDRATES 



obtained it from wild cherry bark (Prunus serotind). It has been 
named prunasin. 

The inter-relationship of these compounds is indicated in the ac- 
companying scheme. Possibly the unknown isomeride of amygdalin 
will also be found in the plant : — 



Amygdalin 



Amyg 



Isoamygdaiin 



Unknown 



dalase 



Prunasin 
> (i-mandelonitrile glucoside 



Amyg dalase 



Prulaurastn 
> i{/-mandelonitrile 
glucoside 



Sambunigrin 
= ^mandelonitrue glucoside 



As mentioned above ordinary amygdalin, or as Walker terms it 
/-amygdalin, is converted rapidly at the ordinary temperature by alkali 
into a much more soluble substance which yields racemic mandelic 
acid when hydrolysed, together with a slight excess of dextro-mandelic 
acid. The simplest assumption that can be made r^arding this 
change is that it consists only in the racemisation of the mandelic 
asymmetric carbon atom. Recenffexperiments of Walker and Krieble 
suggest, however, that other changes take place during racemisation, 
particularly when the solution is evaporated to dryness and so subjected 
to protracted heating. Apparently the new product formed is stable 
towards emulsin, and it is suggested that an intramolecular change 
from a /S-»into an a-glucoside has taken place creating a new isomeride 
of amygdalin. Amygdalin does not part with a glucose radicle when 
racemisedjand heated, nor is it hydrolysed to the ammonium salt of 
amygdalinic acid to any great extent If confirmed, this transformation 
of /9- into a-glucoside is of a very remarkable character. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 121 



Cyanophoric Glucosides. 

Hydrocyanic acid has frequently been isolated from plants, but it 
is only quite recently that its formation has been ascribed invariably to 
the decomposition of a glucoside. Besides amygdalin and the isomeric 
mandelonitrile glucosides a number of other glucosides have been 
isolated, which yield hydrogen cyanide when hydrolysed; they are 
conveniently grouped together under the term c)^nophoric glucosides. 
Although rare compared with the occurrence of saponin in plants the 
distribution of hydrogen cyanide is proving much wider than was at 
one time imagined ; its production has been observed in many plants of 
economic importance. A useful list of plants which yield prussic acid 
has been compiled by Greshoff. Some of the cyanophoric glucosides 
may be briefly mentioned* 

Dhurrin^ first isolated by Dunstan and Henry from the leaves and 
stems of the great millet, is a ^d^nz-hydroxymandelonitrile glucoside, 
and therefore closely related to the three mandelonitrile glucosides 
just described. Like them it is hydrolysed by emulsin. 

Gynocardifty isolated by Power from the oleaginous seeds of Gyno- 
carcUa odorata^ yields prussic acid, glucose and an unknown substance, 
CgHg04, on hydrolysis. It is accompanied in the seeds by an enzyme, 
gynocardase, which also decomposes amygdalin. 

Linamatin or Phaseolunatin was first isolated by Jorissen and Hairs 
from young flax plants and subsequently by Dunstan and Henry from 
Phaseolus lunatus. The latter authors consider it to be acetonecyano- 
hydrin-o-glucoside, but it has since been shown to be a derivative of /S- 
glucose. Hydrogen cyanide and acetone have been obtained from a 
number of plants on hydrolysis and possibly linamarin is widely dis- 
tributed. The glucoside is accompanied in plants by a specific enzyme 
linase which has been fiiUy investigated by Armstrong and Eyre. 
Phaseolus lunatus contains two enzymes — ah emulsin which, however, 
according to Dunstan, is without action on phaseolunatin and an enzyme 
of the maltase type which hydrolyses both phaseolunatin and amyg- 
dalin, forming mandelonitrile glucoside in the latter case. It is 
perhaps identical with the amygdalase described by Caldwell and 
Courtauld. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 22 CARBOHYDRATES 

Lotusin discovered by Dunstan and Henry in Lotus arabicus is of 
interest for two reasons. Like amygdalin it gives rise to two mole- 
cules of glucose on hydrolysis and therefore probably contains a 
disaccharide. The other products of hydrolysis are prussic acid and 
lotoflavin — an isomeride of fisetin. In the alkaline hydrolysis one of 
the glucose residues is obtained >as heptagluconic acid, indicating that 
the cyanogen radicle is associated with the sugar residue. Lotusin is 
not hydrolysed by almond emulsin but it is resolved by an enzyme 
(lotase) which accompanies it, but as this also decomposes amygdalin 
and salicin it probably contains emulsin. 

Vicianin has been found only in the seeds of a wild vetch, Vida 
angustifolia. It is decomposed by an enzyme (vicianase) present in 
certain vetches into hydrogen cyanide, benzaldehyde and a disaccharide, 
CuHjoOjo, vicianose, which is hydrolysed further by the emulsin of 
almonds into glucose and /-arabinose (Bertrand). Accordingly vici- 
anin represents amygdalin in which one molecule of glucose is re- 
placed by arabinose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 123 



The Synthetic Glucosides. 

Several of the natural glucosides have been prepared synthetically, 
and by similar methods the corresponding glucosides of a variety of 
substances can be obtained. The starting-point for the synthesis of 
the natural glucosides was the crude acetochloro glucose prepared by 
Colley (1870) by the action of acetyl chloride on glucose. Michael 
(1879) coupled this with the potassium salt of phenols, preparing in 
this manner phenyl glucoside, helicin, salicin and methylarbutin ; 
Drouin by the same method obtained the glucosides of thymol and 
a-naphthol. Fischer in 1893 obtained the alkyl glucosides from 
acetochloro glucose, but they are more easily prepared as described in 
Chapter I. 

Following the discovery of the crystalline a- and )8-acetochloro 
glucoses attempts were made to extend and improve Michael's syntheti- 
cal method, but were only successful in the case of the )8-compound. 
As already mentioned the o-acetochloro glucose in presence of alkali 
undergoes isomeric rearrangement to the )8-acetochloro glucose, and 
accordingly )8-glucosides result instead of a-glucosides. 

Interesting yS-glucosides obtained by this method are those of 
menthol and bomeol: they represent the first synthetical terpene 
glucosides, and are closely allied to the terpene glucuronic acid com- 
pounds. By the interaction of )8-acetobromo glucose and the potassium 
salt of thiophenol, )8-thiophenol glucoside, C^HgS . C^HnOg, has been 
obtained. This is not hydrolysed by emulsin and is very resistant 
towards hydrolysis by dilute acids : it is the simplest representative of 
the sulphur glucosides. The acetochloro hexose synthesis has been 
extended to the preparation of derivatives of other sugars. Phenolic 
glucosides of galactose, maltose, arabinose and xylose, and also thio- 
phenol lactoside, have been obtained, all of which belong presumably 
to the /8-series. 

The appreciation of the importance of glucosides in plant metabol- 
ism has added new interest to their synthesis and several further 
representatives of the group have been obtained in crystalline condi- 
tion. Though no new methods have been suggested, the simplification 
in the preparation of acetobromo glucose has facilitated progress. 
Thus the yS-glucosides of cetyl alcohol, cyclohexBXiol, geraniol and 
glycollic acid have been described by Fischer and Helferich ; further, 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 24 CARBOHYDRATES 

iS-glycol glucoside, which is hydrolysed by emulsin, and menthol 
maltoside (E. and H. Fischer). Unna has prepared benzyl, menthol and 
bomeol-)8-galactosides ; Mauthner has synthesised glucovanillic acid 
and gluco-p-hydroxy benzoic acid. 

These syntheses will render a variety of materials available for 
the more exact study of the selective action of enzymes and the influ- 
ence exercised by the non-sugar group on the stability of the glucoside 
as already discussed in Chapter VI. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE FUNCTION OF CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS. 

Carbohydrates are of fundamental importance in plants: quite \ 
apart from the process of assimilation in which starch is formed, the \ 
carbohydrates and more particularly their glucosidic derivatives are \ 
now recognised as playing an all essential part in other physiological | 
processes. Sufficient space is not available in the present monograph [ 
for more than a brief indication of some of the more developed branches t 
of this field of inquiry in which work is now being done in many 
directions. 

The last few years have witnessed great progress in the novel in- 
terpretation of the function of glucosides as a means of keeping dormant 
substances of great importance in the metabolism of the plant until the 
precise moment at which they are required. The so-called respiratory 
and anthocyanin pigments are derived from glucosides, likewise many 
perfumes. Similarly a large class of substances, which are capable of 
acting as hormones and giving a very delicate but directed stimulus to 
plant metabolism, are constituents of glucosides. 

Since any particular glucoside is only hydrolysed by its specific en- 
zyme, the supply of these materials for whatever purpose they are re- 
quired is regulated by a very sensitive control. The glucoside-enzyme 
systems are to be regarded as constituting a controlling mechanism 
for plant metabolism. 

Significance of Glucosides. 

Opinions are divided as to the real significance of glucosides in 
plant economy. Probably they are of use to the plant in a variety of 
ways, and no one explanation will cover the functions of all the mem- 
bers of the group. 

In most, if not in all cases, the glucosides are accompanied by 
appropriate enzymes which are able to hydrolyse the glucoside. 
Enzyme and glucoside do not exist in the same cells as normally there 
is no decomposition. They are brought together should the cellular 
structure be damaged and in some instances during germination. 

125 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 26 CARBOHYDRATES 

In the cherry-laurel, according to Guignard, "emulsin" exists in 
the endodermis ; in the almond, it is found in the axis of the embryo 
in the pericycle which lies immediately under the endodermis, and in 
the cotyledons in both the endodermis and the pericycle, Bourque- 
lot, who prepared both glucoside (gaultherin) and enzyme from the 
stems of Manotropa^ showed they are not present in the same cells. 

The earliest investigations of this nature are due to Marshall Ward. 
The fruits of the Persian berry {Rhamfms infectarius) contain a glucoside 
known as xanthorhamnin, which, when hydrolysed, yields rhamnetin 
and the two sugars rhamnose and galactose. Marshall Ward and 
Dunlop showed that the seeds contain an enzyme, termed rfiamnase, 
capable of hydrolysing the glucoside ; this is confined to the raphe of 
the seed, which is composed of parenchymatous cells containing a 
brilliant oily-looking colourless substance. When the pulp or an 
extract of the pericarp of the fruit is digested with an extract of the 
seeds a copious yellow precipitate of rhamnetin is formed. 

In very many cases glucosides function as reserve materials, and 
when required they are hydrolysed by the accompanying enzyme and 
pass into circulation. 

It would appear that the glucoside stored in the seed is often of 
a more complex character than that present in the leaves of the same 
plant, containing more than one sugar or two molecules of the same 
sugar in its molecule, whereas the leaf glucoside is a simple one. A 
special enzyme is required to hydrolyse it which is present only in the 
seed and absent from the leaf. 

Thus the seeds of Prunus species contain amygdalin together with 
the enzymes, amygdalase and prunase, required for its complete hydro- 
lysis ; the leaves contain mandelonitrile glucosides and prunase but no 
amygdalase. Complex glucosides are present in the seeds of other 
plants as indicated in the previous chapter. 

Anaesthetics such as chloroform or ether are well known to have 
a remarkable action on plants in stimulating growth. Of the deepest 
significance in this connection is Guignartfs observation that exposure 
of living plants to the action of anaesthetics brings about interaction 
between the glucoside and the corresponding ferment. Mustard oil is 
formed from the leaves of certain cruciferae, hydrogen cyanide fixMcn 
laurel leaves and other cyanophoric plants, when submitted to the 
action of chloroform. The same phenomenon is brought about by ex- 
posure to extreme cold. 

The recent investigations of H. E. and E. F. Armstrong have 
shown that a variety of substances, having the property in common 



Digitized by 



Google 



FUNCTION OF CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 127 

that they have but little affinity for water, are able to penetrate the 
walls of certain plant cells. As a consequence alterations in equilibrium 
are set up within the cell, and changes are induced which involve altera- 
tion of the concentration and the liberation of hydrolytic enzymes. 

The general name hormone has been applied to substances which 
are active in this manner : it has been shown that the group includes 
not only carbon dioxide but material such as hydrogen cyanide, hydro- 
carbons, alcohols, phenols, ethers, esters, aldehydes, mustard oils, etc, 
all of which are normal products of hydrolysis of the plant glucosides. 
The hormones include most of the substances which Overton, Lob, 
Czapek and others have classed as lipoid solvents. 

The result of the liberation^ of enzymes within the cell will be 
hydrolysis of complex carbohydrates, glucosides, proteins, etc., and the 
materials so formed will be active in still further stimulating change. 
If unchecked, change will proceed until autolysis is complete: in 
practice the intervention of oxydases is made manifest by the appear- 
ance of brown and other pigments. 

It will be seen that the plant cell carries its own hormones or 
activators in an inactive form bound up as glucosides. If for any 
reason during the twenty-four hour period a little of the glucoside be- 
comes hydrolysed, the hormone will be liberated and a very delicate 
stimulus given to the cell to b^n down-grade changes such as normally 
take place at night 

The recognition of the potent effect of the constituents of glucosides 
in acting as stimuli and starters of active metabolism may be of im- 
portance in studying the nutrition of animals. It is well known that 
the herbage of one pasture may have the power of fattening an animal 
whereas similar grass on an adjoining field though equally readily con- 
sumed by the animal fails to bring it into condition for the market. 
Subtle differences between the grasses of these two fields, have 
hitherto defied detection, but some recent observations made with 
Lotus comiculatus (Armstrong) indicate that the presence of certain 
glucosides or similar constituents in the one herbage may have some 
bearing on the difference. 

Bunge has pointed out that very many of the non-sugar constituents 
of glucosides are antiseptic and therefore bactericidal in character. In 
the seeds of plants the reserve stores of food-stuffs form an excellent 
medium for the development of micro-organisms which would rapidly 
spread but for the protective action of the glucoside. In the almond, 
directly the seed is penetrated, the amygdalin is hydrolysed and all 
bacterial action prevented. The universal presence of glucosides in the 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 28 CARBOHYDRATES 

bark of plants may be similarly explained : they ensure an antiseptic 
treatment of all wounds in the integument. 

Easily decomposable substances, such as many acids or aldehydes, 
are protected against oxidation by being transformed into glucosides 
just as, in the animal organism, similar substances are converted into 
paired glucuronic acid derivatives. 

Glucosides possessing a bitter taste or having poisonous properties 
serve to protect such important organisms as the seeds or fruits of 
plants against animals. In some instances the plant is only poisonous 
at certain stages of its growth. Thus an Egyptian plant, Lotus arabicus, 
is poisonous in the early stages, but becomes a useful forage when 
allowed to mature: it contains the glucoside lotusin, which yields 
hydrogen cyanide when hydrolysed. 

Glucosides containing acetonecyanohydrin are r^;arded by Treub 
as primary material for protein synthesis. Guignard, working with 
phaseolunatin, has obtained no evidence that hydrocyanic acid is liber- 
ated during germination of Fhaseolus beans. 

The amount of glucoside present varies considerably in different 
species of the same plant, and varies also according to the time of year. 
It also differs in the male and female plant of the same species. Un- 
fortunately the material at present available for the discussion of this 
question is very scanty. Jowett and Potter, who investigated the bark 
from thirty-three samples of willow and poplar, found considerable 
variation in the occurrence of salicin. In April the bark from the female 
tree contained about three times as much salicin as that from the male ; 
three months later the conditions were reversed. It is suggested that 
salicin acts as a reserve food material ; it is stored away in the winter 
for use in the coming spring when it is hydrolysed by the accompany- 
ing ferment and the glucose used by the plant. Owing to their special 
functions the reserve is drawn upon to an unequal extent by the male 
and female trees. Taxicatin, the glucoside of the leaves and young 
shoots ot the yew {Taxus baccata)^ occurs in greatest quantity in the 
plant during the autumn and winter ; apparently it is utilised in the 
spring when the young shoots begin to assimilate. The cyanophoric 
glucoside in the leaves of Sambucus nigra according to Guignard seems 
to fulfil a different function, as its amount diminishes only slightly with 
age, and at the end of the vegetative period the glucoside does not 
migrate to the stems but remains in the leaves till they drop off. 

The variations in the composition of the root of the gentian during 
a year's growth have been studied by Bridel. The gentian root contains 
a glucoside gentiopicrin and the carbohydrates glucose, fructose, sucrose 



Digitized by 



Google 



RESPIRATION IN PLANTS 129 

and gentianose (p. 70), the last of which is hydrolysed by invertase. 
The amount of carbohydrate hydrolysed by invertase increases from a 
minimum (1*2 percent.) early in June to a maximum (7*8 per cent.) in 
August and then remains constant. The amount of glucoside (2 per 
cent) does not vary much, it increases a little in June and July. In 
May and June gentianose is largely replaced by gentiobiose. The 
sucrose increases from i per cent, in July to 4 per cent, or more in 
November : it is absent when growth commences in the spring. 

According to Cavazza the amount of tannin in the leaves of forest 
trees reaches a maximum in September, whereas the amount in the 
twigs shows maxima in July and December and varies inversely as that 
in the leaves. 

Respiration in Plants. 

Carbohydrates and glucosides are concerned likewise in the pheno- 
mena of respiration in plants, during which oxygen is absorbed, carbon 
dioxide given off and the enei^ necessary for carrying Out the life- 
work of the plant liberated. The process of oxidative decomposition 
of food substances is separable into two stages : in the first, alcohol 
and carbon dioxide are produced, as may be demonstrated by allow- 
ing pea seeds to germinate without the access of air. The anaerobic 
process of carbohydrate decomposition, if not identical with, is very 
similar to the alcoholic fermentation of glucose by yeast. 

The second stage in respiration comprises the aerobic oxidation of 
the alcohol produced in the first stage : this is effected according to 
the present view by the agency of the respiratory pigments which are 
themselves present originally as glucosides and liberated by hydrolysis. 
No doubt salts of iron, manganese, etc., play some part in the oxida- 
tive changes but their precise function is not yet understood 

Important light has been thrown on the function of the aromatic 
substances in plants and on the existence of enzymes, which act only 
on them, by the researches of Palladin. Following the line of thought 
originated by Reinke, who discovered substances in the plant which 
under the influence of enzyme (oxydase) and air gave coloured oxida- 
tion products, Palladin made a systematic search for these respiratory 
chromogens. He supposes them to be cyclic compounds bound to 
carbohydrates in the form of insoluble glucosides. Glucoside-splitting 
enzymes separate the cyclic compounds which by the aid of the oxy- 
dases are then enabled to take up oxygen from the air to give it up 
again later under the influence of reducing substances. During life the 
chromogens normally remain colourless so long as there is a balance 

9 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 30 CARBOHYDRATES 

in the activities of the three types of enzyme concerned, but, on treat- 
ment with chloroform or other hormones, or after death due to cold 
or injury, the inter-relationship of the enzymes is disturbed and the 
coloured oxidised chromogen becomes evident. 

The soluble p^ments of flowering plants — red, purple and blue — 
which are termed collectively anthocyanin by botanists are regarded 
similarly as oxidation products of chromogens of an aromatic nature, 
probably in many a^,es members of the flavone and xanthone groups 
(Wheldale) : there is little doubt that these colourless chromogens are 
present in the living tissues as glucosides. It would appear that the 
chromogen can only be oxidised after it has been liberated from the 
glucoside, the glucosides themselves being stable towards oxidising 
agents : in the animal, it will be remembered, they undergo oxidation 
to glucuronic acid. 

Combes has found that red leaves of which the colouration is 
attributed to anthocyanin contain proportionately greater amounts of 
glucosides and sugars than green leaves of the same plant ; Kraus has 
proved the same to hold for the aromatic constituents. The evidence 
as to the formation of anthocyanin has been summarised by Wheldale; 
it is regarded as due to the accumulation of glucosides. Sugar feeding 
increases both the amount of glucoside and of free aromatic chromogen. 

The autumnal colouration of leaves is attributed (Overton, Tswett) 
to the same series of changes brought about by the slowing up of the 
metabolic processes of the plant by frost and other influences resulting 
in the disturbance of the enzyme balance. Tannins, for example, 
when set free from their glucoside form by the hydrolytic enzymes, 
yield pigments on oxidation {cf. p. 45). 

The production of pigment involves something more than the inter- 
action of the aromatic chromogen with the oxydase. Chodat has 
accumulated evidence showing that protein decomposition products, t .^., 
the amino acids or polypeptides also take part in the reaction, and the 
precise shade of colour produced depends on the nature and quantity 
of these as well as on that of the aromatic compound derived from the 
glucoside. 

Carbohydrates and the Enz]rme Balance. 

In dealing with carbohydrate metabolism in plants there is abund- 
ant evidence that a very delicate balance exists between the various 
enzymatic processes which take place simultaneously, leading it may 
be to the building up of starch or to the transference of a glucoside 
into anthocyanin. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CARBOHYDRATES AND THE ENZYME BALANCE 131 

It is obvious that the introduction from without of agencies which 
will affect this balance will have a more or less profound influence in 
altering the changes which take place. 

One of the most delicate means of regulating the balance is that 
afforded by change of temperature. A rise or fall in the temperature 
does not influence all enzyme reactions alike — ^for example, some are 
retarded by cold much more than others. 

A typical case is that afforded by the potato tuber during storage 
(Miiller-Thurgan). Three changes ta:ke place simultaneously : starch is 
being transformed into sugar, sugar into starch and also by the process 
of respiration into carbon dioxide. A decrease in the temperature 
hinders all three reactions but it has least effect on the formation of 
sugar from starch. Accordingly when the potato is stored at o** sugar 
is formed till the amount increases to 3 per cent At - i** all enzyme 
action ceases. At + 3° there is still formation of sugar but the enzymes 
acting to destroy it tend to keep the amount down to 0*5 per cent. 
At + 6° the rate of formation of sugar from starch and that of the 
reverse change are equal ; above this temperature the formation of 
starch predominates. In consequence no sugar is stored and any sugar 
previously present is destroyed. 

The effect of a further rise in temperature on the enzyme balance 
has not been worked out in such detail but there is no doubt that the 
influence is equally profound. This conception of the regulation of 
metabolism affords an explanation of the sudden development of plant 
growth due to a warm day in spring when the rise in temperature 
favours synthetic changes ; or of the injury caused to hot-house plants 
by exposing them to a temperature colder than that to which they are 
accustomed, whereby an abnormal preponderance of hydrolytic activity 
is favoured which, if unduly prolonged, may lead to the disintegratfon 
of the protoplasmic structure and death of the plants 

In the case of plants which are killed by frost it is supposed that 
as a result of the removal of the water as ifte the concentration of the 
cell fluid becomes such that the soluble proteins are precipitated from 
solution. This salting out of the proteins is prevented by the presence 
of non-electrolytes such as sugar : Lidforss, to whom this explanation 
is due, has shown that the leaves of winter plants are free from starch 
but contain much sugar. The warm days of early spring bring about 
the regeneration of starch and partial disappearance of sugar ; in con- 
sequence the cell is but ill protected against the effects of a subsequent 
frost. 



9* 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 32 CARBOHYDRATES 



The Ripening of Fleshy Fruits. 

In the first stages after fintilisation the dvuiges in the young fruit 
resemble those in the leaf: a variety of acids» tannins, and sometimes 
starch then accumulate, and ultimately, as the fruit becomes ripe, carbo* 
hydrates and fruit ethers or aromatic substances are formed and the 
bitter, acid or astringent taste disappears together with the starch. 

The interrelationship of the materials concerned and the enzymes 
which effect their transformation possesses numerous pointsof interest — 
the scope of the present work limits discussion here mainly to the 
carbohydrates, A distinction has been drawn between three types of 
fruit (Gerber) which in the preliminary stages are rich either in acids, 
tannins or starch : the subsequent char^^ differ somewhat in eadi 
type. 

As a typical starchy fruit the banana may be considered During 
ripening there is an evolution of carbon dioxide and a considerable 
conversion of starch into sugar. Thus Prinsen-Geerligs found during 
six days the amount of starch decreased from 31 to 9 per cent, the 
cane sugar rose from 08 to 13 "6 per cent, and the invert sugar from 
0*25 to 8*3 per cent. The presence of oxygen is necessary for ripen- 
ing ; in an atmosphere of nitrogen the starch remains intact 

A careful study of the enzymes preset in extracts of bananas 
gathered at different stages of ripening has been made by Tallarico. 
The catal3dic enzyme which decomposes hydrogen* peroxide is very 
active in the green fruit but weakens as it ripens. Diastase is only 
active in the green fruit or at the b^inning of ripening, it then dis» 
appears. Invertase is absent during the green stage, the amount very 
rapidly increases during ripening and then gradually disappears. A 
proteoclastic enzyme is evident during ripening and then likewise 
vanishes. Maltase is not present at any period. 

During ripening the skin of the banana changes from green to 
yellow, deep brown and finally black ; the fruit is then fully ripe. This 
change is due to an oxydase acting on some aromatic substance liberated 
from a glucoside. The black colour is quickly produced when a yellow 
banana skin is disintegrated by mincing or when the entire skin is 
exposed to the vapour ot some hormone. Under natural conditions 
the stimulus, which leads to blackening, is given from within the fruit 
by the liberation of the characteristic ester of the banana which acts 
as a powerful hormone. In the case of most fruits, it would seem 
that the final appearance which is associated with ripeness is condi- 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE RIPENING OF FLESHY FRUITS 133 

tioned by stimulus from within rather than by any environmental 
influence. 

Vinson has found that invertase is present in the date throughout 
the green stages but remains in an insoluble endo form : during ripen- 
ing it becomes readily soluble changing to i the ecto form. The change 
coincides very closely in point of time with the conversion of the 
soluble tannins into an insoluble form. The unripe date contains 
much cane sugar, in the ripe fruit this is converted into invert sugar. 
Influences, such as have been considered under the name of hormones, 
which destroy the structure of the protoplasm liberate the endo-enzyme 
provided always that the dates have reached a certain stage of develop- 
ment 

The acids in fruits are chiefly malic, tartaric and citric. Gerber 
considers that during ripening they are in part converted into sugar 
and in part oxidised to carbon dioxide. Temperature has an important 
influence on the rate of oxidation. Experiments with fungi {Stertgma- 
tocyti^ have shown that whereas at 1 2° glucose is attacked preferentially 
to tartaric acid, at 20"" the rate of attack is equal, at 37** the tartaric 
acid is least resistant. Malic acid is oxidised more easily than glucose 
at all temperatures: fruits containing it, such as apples, can ripen 
therefore in colder climates than those containing tartaric acid, like 
grapes. Citric acid is still more resistant to attack and fruits such as 
oranges and lemons require warmer climates in order to ripen. 

In apples according to Kelhofer the percentage of sugar is highest 
in the flesh, the yidity increases towards the centre, the tannin from 
the centre outwards. The distribution is the same in ripe as in unripe 
apples, but during ripening the amount of acid greatly diminishes. 

In oranges (Scurti and Plato) citric and malic acids are present ; 
during ripening the quantity at first increases but then becomes much 
smaller. Sucrose diminishes in amount, glucose and fructose increase. 

During the ripening of sloes (Otto and Kooper) the amount of 
fructose increases whilst that of glucose decreases together with the 
acids and tannin : the loss is in part due to respiration. The same 
authors have studied the changes in medlars and quinces during 
ripening. 

In the ripening of cereals the object is to store starch instead of 
converting it into sugar. The enzymes act synthetically and there is 
a gradual accumulation of carbohydrate within the endosperm tissue. 
The slowly matured, plump grains contain a higher proportion of 
starch than the small and rapidly ripened grains. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Reference to the literature subsequent to xooo is much facilitated hy the Annual Volumes of the Inter- 
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature. Papers referring to Carbohydrates are indexed in Volume D 
{Chemistry) wider x8oo et seq. in the original language, namely, 1800 General, i8zo Monosaccharides, i8ao 
Disacchartdes, 1830 Trisaccharides, 1840 Polysaccharides, 1850 Glucosides. Papers referring to the Car- 
bohydrate Enxymes are indexed under 8ooo-8oi4, Fermentation under 8020, and Vegetable Metabolism under 
8030. The same system of numbering is used in the forthcoming publication of the Royal Society's Catalogue 
of Scientific Papers up to igoo. 

TEXT-BOOKS. 

£. F. Armstrong. Dictionary of Applied Chemistry, 1912. [Carbohydrates, Glucosides.] 

F. CzAPBK. Biochemis der Pflanxen, Jena, 1905. 

F. CzAPBK. Chemical phenomena in Life. London, zgii. 

H. EuLSR. Pflanxenchemie. Braunschweig, igo8. 

H. EuLSR UND LuNDBERG. Glucoside. Biochemisches Handlexikon, igzi. 

£. FiscHBR. Untersuchungen uher Kohlenhydrate und Fermente. 1884-1908. Berlin* 

1909. [A reprint of sul the original papers.] 
J. Rbynolds Grbbn. The soluble ferments and fermentation, 
V. Hbnri. Lois generates des diastases, Paris, 1903. 
O. Jacobsbn. Die Glycoside. 
H. Landolt. Das optische Drehungsvermogen organischer Substanzen und dessen 

praktische Anwendungen. Braunschweig, 1898. 
E. von Lippmann. Die Chemie der Zuckerarten. 3rd edition, 1904. 
L. Maqubnnb, Les Sucres et leurs principaux derives. Paris, 1900. 
R. H. Adbrs Plimmbr. The chemical changes and products resulting from fermentations. 

London, 1903. 
*Van Rijn. Die Glucoside. Berlin, 1900. 

Roscob-Schorlbmmbr's Chemie, Band 8. Pflansenglycoside, Braunschweig, 1901. 
B. ToLLBNS. Kurxes Handbuch der Kohlenhydrate. and edition, 1898. 



135 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO CHAPTER I. 

E. BucHNBR, J. MsiSBNHBiMBR UND H. ScHADB. VergShtung des Zuckers ohne Bnsyme. 

Ber., 1906, 39, 4217-4231. 
£• F18CHBR. Ueber die Co9^guraHan des TrauhentuckirM und sHner Uomertn, I., II. 

Ber., 1891.24, Z836.Z845; 2683-2687. 
£. F18CHBR UND R. S. MoRRBLL. Uther die CanfiguraHan der Rhamnose und Oalaciose. 

Ber., 1894, 27, 382-394- 
E. F18CHBR. Konfiguratum der Weinsattre. Ber., 1896, 29, 1377-1383. 
C. S. Hudson. Certain numerical relaHons in the sugar group. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 

1909. 3i» 66-86. 
W. LoBB. Zur Kenninis der Zuckerspaltungen, I. Die Einwirkung von Zinkcarhwiat auf 

Formaldehydlosungen. Biochem. ZeiL, 1908, 12, 78-96. 
W. LoBB. Zur Kenntnis der Zuckerspaltun^en, II. Die Einwirkung von ZinkstauB und 

Eisen auf Formaldehydlosungen ; d$e Einwirkung von Zinksiauh auf Trauben* 

tucker, BiocheooL Zeit., 1908, 12^ 466-472. 
J. Mbisbnhbimbr. Das Verhalten der Glucose^ Fructose und Galactose gegen pewdimnte 

Natronlange. Ber., 1908, 41, Z009-zoz9. 
J. U. Nbf. Das Verhalten der Zuckerarten gegen die Fehlingsche Losung sowie g^cn 

andere OxydationsmitteL Annalen, Z907, 557, 214-3Z2. 
O. PiLOTY. Ueber eine neue Totalsynthese des Glycerins und des Dioxyacetons. Ber.» Z897, 

30, 3161-3169. 
H. ScHADB. Vergdhrung des Zuckers ohne Ensyme. Zeit. physikaL Cbem., Z906, 57, z-46. 
H. ScHADB. Vber die Vorgange der Garung vom Standpunkt der Katalyse^ Biochem. 

Zeitsch., Z908, 7, 299-326. 
A. WoHL. Ueber die Acetate des Acroleins und des Glycerinaldehyds, Ber., Z898, 31, 

Z796-Z80Z. 
A. WoHL. Synthese des r-Glycerinaldehydes. Ber., Z898, 31, 2394-2395. 
A. WoHL UND C. Nbubbrg. Zur Kenntnis des Glycerinaldehyds, Ber., Z900, 33, 

3095-3"o- 



I3« 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO STRUCTURE AND MUTAROTATION OF GLUCOSE. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Studies on Enzyme Action, I. The correlaHon of the 

stereoisomeric a- and $-glucosides with the corresponding glucoses. J. Chem. Soc., 

1903, 83, 1305-X313. 
E. Frankland Armstrong and S. L. Courtauld. Formation of isodynamic glueosides 

with reference to the theory of isomeric change and the selective action of enzymes- 

preparation of fi-methyl glucoside. J. Physiol., 1905, 33, Proc. iv. 
R. Bbhrbnd. Zur Kenntniss der fi-Glueose. Annalen, zgzo, 377, 320-223. 
R. Bbrbno und p. Roth. Ueber die Birotation der Glucose, Annalen, 1904, 331, 359* 

382. 
H. T. Brown and G. H. Morris. The action, in the cold, of diastase on starch-paste. 

J. Chem. Soc., 1895, 67, 309-3i3« 
H. T. Brown and S. Pickbring. Thermal phenomena attending the change in rotatory 

power of freshly prepared solutions of certain carbohydrates, with s&me remarks on 

the cause of multirotation, J. Chem. Soc., 1897, 71, 756-783. 
DuBRVNFAUT. Note sur quelques phenomhtes rotettoires et sur quelques proprietSs des 

sucres. Compt rend., 1846, 23, 38-44. Ann. Chim. phys., 1846, 18^ 99-107 ; 1847, 

Jl, Z78.Z80. 
£. Fischer. Einige Sduren der Zuckergruppe, Ber., 1890, 23, 2625-2628. 
R. GiLMOtm. Mutarotation of glucose and its nitrogen derivatives. Fioc Chem. Soc., 

19091 2S 225-226. 
H. Grossmann vnd F. L. Block. Studien uber Rotationsdispersion und Mutarotation 

der Zmekerarten in Waaser, Pyridin und Ameisensdure. Zeitsdi. rer. dent. Zadcerind., 

1912, 19-74- 
G» Hbitbl. Birotation der Qtdactose, Annalen, 1905, 338^ 71-107. 
C. S. Hudson. Ueber die Multirotation des Milchzuckers. Zdt. physik. Chem., 1903, 

44. 487-494- 
C. S. Hudson. The hydration of milk-sugar in solution. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1904, 

a6» 1065-1062. 
C. S. Hudson. Catalysis by acids and basss of the mutarotation of glucose, J. Amer. 

Chem. Soc., 1907, ap, 1571-1576. 
C. S. Hudson. The sign^cance of certain numerical relations in the sugar group, J. 

Amer. Chem. Soc., 1909, 31, 66-86. 
C. S. Hudson. A review of discoveries on the mutarotation of the sugars. J. Amer. 

Chem. Soc., 19x0, 32^ 889-894. 
J. C Irvinb and a. M. Moodib. Addition of alkylhalides to alkylated sugars and 

glucosides, J. Chem. Soc., 1906, 89^ 1578-1590. 
C. L. JuNGius. The mutual transformation of the two stereoisomeric methyl-d-glucosides» 

Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1903, 6, 99-104. 
C. L« JuNGius. The mutual transformation of the two stereoisomeric pentacetates of 

d-glucose, Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1904, 7, 779-783. 
C. L. JuNGius. Ueber die Umlagerung zwischen einigen isomeren Glukose-derivaten und 

die Mutarotation der Zuckerarten, Zeit. physikal. Chem., 1905, 53^ 97-108. 
J. Landini. Influenza della formalina sul potere rotatorio del glucosio in rapporto alia 

teoria delta mulHrotazione, Atti. R. Accad., Lincei, 1907, i6| 52-58. 
A. Lbvy. Die Multirotation der Dextrose, Zeiu physikal. Chem., 1895, 17, 30Z-324. 
E. VON LiPPMANN. Bemerkung zur Frage uber die Ursache der Birotation, Ber., 1896, 

29, 203.204. 
T. M. LowRY. [Mutarotation of glucose,] J. Chem. Soc., 1899, 75, 2x3. 
T. M. LowRY. The mutarotation of glucose, J. Chem. Soc., X903, 83, 13 14-1323. 

137 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 CARBOHYDRATES 

T. M. LowRY. Equilibrium in soluHant of glucose and of galactose. J. Chem. Soc, 1904, 

8& 1551.1570. 
J. A« MiLROY. Einfluss inakHver Substanzen auf die optische Drehung der Glucose* 

Zdt physikal. Chem., 1904, 50^ 433-464* 
Y. Osaka. Ueber die BirotoHon der d-Qlukose. Zeit physikal. Chem., 1900, 35, 663. 
£. Parcus und B. Tollbns. Die Mehr-oder Weniger-Drehung {MulHrotation oder sog. 

Birotation und HaXbrotation) der Zuckerarten. Annalen, 1890, 257, 160-178. 
W. H. Pbrkin, Sen. The magnetic rotation of some polyhydric alcohols, J. Chem. Soc., 

1902, 8z, 177-191. 
P. Rabb and C. Roy. Ueber Mutarotation und ektrische Leitfahigkeit bd Zuckem. Ber., 

1910, 43^ 3964-2971. 

E. Roux. Sur la poly rotation des sucres. Ami. Chim. phys., 1903, 50^ 422-432. 

L. J. Simon. Sur la constitution du glucose, Compt rend., 1901, 132, 487-490; 596. 

C. O'Sullivan and F. W. Tompson. Invertase : a contribution to the history of an 

enzyme or unorganised ferment [multirotation}, J. Chem. Soc, 1890, 57, 920 

[834-931]. 
C. Tanrbt. Les modifications moUculaires du glucose. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1895, P"lt 

13,625; 728-735. 
C. Tanrbt. Les modifications moUculaires du glucose, Compt rend., 1895, lao^ 

Z060-Z062. 
C. Tanrbt. Les modifications moUculaires et la multirotation des sucres. Bull. Soc. 

Chim., 1896, [iii], 15, 195-205, 349-36z ; 1897, 17, 802-805. 
C. Tanrbt. Les transformations des sucres d multirotation. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1905, 

[">! 33i 337-348. 
B. Tollbns. D<u Verhalten der Dextrose mu ammoniakcUischer Silberldsung, Ber., 1883, 

16, 921-924. 
B. Tollbns. Die Ursache der Birotation des Traubenzuckers, Ber., 1893, a6^ 1799- 

z8o2. 
H. Trby. Experimentalbeitrag zur BiroteUion der Glykose, Zeit. physikal. Chem., 

1895. 18, 193-218; 1897, 22, 424-463. 

F. Urbch. Zur strobometrisehen Bestimmung der Jnvertirungsgeschwindigkeit von 

Rohrzucker und das Uebergang der Birotation von Milchzucker zu seiner constcmten 

Drehung, Ber., 1882, IS 2x30-2133. 
F. Urbch. Ursdchlicher Zusammenhang zwischen Ldslichkdts und optischer Drehungs 

erseheinung bei Milchzucker und Pormulirung der Ueber gangsgeschwindigkeit seinef 

Birotation in die normale, Ber., 1883, z6^ 2270-227z. 
F. Urbch. Ueber den BirotatUmsruckgang der Dextrose. Ber., 1884, 17, 1547-1550. 
F. Urbch. Ueber die Reihenfolge dniger Biosen und Glvcosen betreffend Reactions- und 

BirotaHonsruckgcMgs^eschwindigkeit mit Ritcksicht auf die Constitutionsformeln 

und den Begriff der Affinitdtsgrosse, Ber., 1885, z8^ 3047-3060. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO DERIVATIVES OF GLUCOSE. 

F. VON Arlt. Zur Kenninis der Glucose, Monatsh., zgoz, 22^ 144-150. 

E. Frankland Armstrong and P. S. Arup. Stereotsomeric glucoses and the hydrolysis 

of glucosidic acetates, J. Chem. Soc., 1904, 8s 1043-Z049. 
LoBRY DB Bruyn AND A. VAN Ekbnstbin. Formal derivatives of sugars, Proc. K. 

Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1902, 5, Z75-i77; Rec. trav. Chim., 1903, aa^ 

159-165. 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin. Le second methylglucoside, Rec. trav. Chim., 1894, 13, z83-z86. 
E. Erwig und W. Konigs. Pentacetyldextrose, Ber., 1889, 22, 1464-1467. 
£. Brwig und W. KdNXGS. Funffach acetylirte Galaktose und Dextrose, Ber., 1889, 22, 

2207-22x3. 
E. FiscHBR. Ueher die Olucoside der Alkohole, Ber., 1893, 26, 2400-2412; 1895, 26, 

1145-1167. 
E. FiscHBR. Ueher die Verbindungen der Zuckerarten mit den Mercaptanen, Ber., 1894, 

a7f 673-679. 
E. FiscHBR. NoHm uber die Acetohalogen-glucosen und die p^BromphenylosazofU von 

Maltose und Melibiose, Ber., 191 z, 44, Z898-Z904. . 
£. FiscHBR und E. F. Armstrong. Ueber die isomeren Acetohaiogen-Derivate der Zucker 

und die Synthese der Glucoside, I., II., III. Ber., Z90Z, 34, 2885-2900; Z902, 35, 

833-843; 3153-3155. 
E. Fischbr und L. Bbbnsch. Ueber einige synthetische Glucoside, Ber., Z894, 27» ^478- 

2486. 
£. Fischbr und K. Raskb. Verbindung von Acetobromglucose und Pyridin, Ber., Z9Z0, 

43, Z750.Z753. 
E. Fischbr und K. Zach. Neue Anhydride der Glucose und Glucoside, Ber., Z9Z2, 45, 

456.465. . 
A. P. N. Franchimont. Les deux pentacHates de la glucose, Rec. trav. Chim., Z893, za^ 

310-314. 
V. Fritz. Ueber einige Derivate des Benzoylcarbinols und des Diphenacyls, Ber., Z895, 

26, 3028-3034. 
J. C. Irvinb and R. Gilmour. The constitution of glucose derivatives. Glucose 

anilide, oxime and hydraxone, J. Chem. Soc, 1908, 93, Z429-Z442. 
J. C. Irvinb and R. Gilmour. Constitution of glucose derivatives, II. Condensation 

derivatives of glucose with aromatic amino compounds, J, Chem. Soc., 1909, 95, 

1545-1555. 
J. C. Irvinb and A. Hynd. o-Carboxyanilides of the Sugars, Trans. Chem. Soc., 

Z9ZZ, 99, z6z-i68. 
J. C. Irvinb and D. McNicoll. The constitution and mutarotation of sugar anilides. 

Trans. Chem. Soc., Z9Z0, 97, Z449-Z456. 
W. Konigs und E. Knorr. Ueber einige Derivate des Traubenxuckers, Sitzungsher. 

K. Akad., Munchen, X900, 50^ Z03-Z05. 
W. Konigs und £. Knorr. Ueber einige Derivate des Traubenzuckers und der Galactose. 

Ber., Z90Z, 34, 957-981. 
R. Krbmann. Ueber die Verseifungsgeschwindigkeit von Monose und Biose Acetaten, 

Monatsh., Z902, 23, 479-488. 
L. Maqubnnb. La priparation du fi-methylglucoside. Bull. Soc. Chim., Z905, [iii], 33, 

469.471. 
J. Moll van Charantb. Sur les dirivis acetyliques des deux methylglucosides et sur 

Vacitobromglucose, Rec. trav. Chim., Z902, 2X, 42-44. 

139 



Digitized by 



Google 



I40 CARBOHYDRATES 

R. S. MoRRBLL AND J. M. Cropts. Actum of hydrogen peroxide on carbohydrates in the 

presence of ferrous sulphate, J. Chem. SkK., 1902, 8z, 666-675 ; 1903, 83, 1284- 

Z292. 
R. S. MoRRBLL AND J. M. Crofts. Modes of formation of osones* Proc. Camb. Phil. 

Soc., 1903, 12^ z 15-121. 
N. ScHOORL. Urea derivatives of monohexoses. Rec. trav. Chim., 1903, 22^ 31-37. 
Z. H. Skraup und R. Krbmann. Ueber Acetochlorglucose, -Galactose und Milchxucker. 

Monatsh., 1901, 22, 375-384i 1037-1048. 
C. Tanrbt. Les ethers acHiques de quelques sucres. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1895, [iii], 13, 

261-273. 
£. V0T06BK. Beitrag xur Nomenklatur der Zuckerartsn, Bet., 1911, 44, 360-361. 
W. Will und F. Lbnzb. Nitrirung von Kohlehydraten, Her., 1898, 31, 68-90. 



REFERENCES TO ALKYLATED SUGARS. 

J. C. Irvinb and a. Cahbron. The Alkylathn of Galactose. J, Chem. Soc, 1904, 85, 
107Z-1081. 

J. C Irvinb and A. Cambron. Study of alkylated glucosides, J. Chem. Soc, 1905, 87, 
900-909. 

J. C. Irvinb and A. Htnd. Monomethyl lavulose and its derivatives: constitution of 
lavulose diacetone. J. Chem. Soc, 1909, 95, 1220-1228. 

J. C Irvinb and A. M. Moodib. Alkylation of mannose. J. Chem. Soc, 1905, 87, 
Z462-1468. 

J. C Irvinb and A. M. Moodib. Derivatives of tetramethylglucose, J. Chem. Soc, 
^908, 93, 95-107- 

T. PuRDiB AND R. C. Bridobtt. Trimethyl a-methylglucoside and trvnethylglucose. 
J. Chem. Soc, 1903, 83, 1037-1041. 

T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvinb. Alkylation cf sugars, J. Chem. Soc, 1903, 83, 1021-1037. 

T. PuRoiB AND J. C. Irvine. The stereoisomeric tetramethyl methyl glucosides and tetra- 
methylglucose. J. Chem. Soc, 1904, 8s t049-zo70. 

T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvinb. Synthesis from glucose of an octamethylated disaccharide. 
Methylation of sucrose and maltose. J. Chem. Soc, 1905, 87, 1022-1030. 

T. PuRDiB AND D. M. Paul. Alkylation of d-fructose. J. Chem. Soc» 1907, 91, 289-299. 

T. PuRDiB AND R. £. RosB. Alkylation of l-arabinose. J« Chem. aoc» 1906, 89^ zao4- 

12X0. 

T. PuRDiB AND C. R. YouNO. Alkylation of mannose^ J. Chem. Soc, 1906, 89^ 1x94- 
Z204. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO CHAPTER IL 

I. Bang. C7tf6^ dU Darstdlung d«r MentkolgiMCuronsiiMrt. Biodiem. Zeit, xgix, 52^ 445. 

K. H. BdooBNBR UND B. ToLLENS. ArobmsauTe. Ber., 19x0, 45, 1645- 1650. 

H. H. BuNZBL. Rate of oxidation of the sugars in an add medium. J. Biol. Chein«, igo8, 

4f vii. 
H. H« BuNZKL. Mechanism of the oxidation of glucose by bromine in neutral and acid 

solutions* J. Amer. Chem. Soc., igog, 31, 464-479. 
L. E. Cavazza. Riecerche sperimentali : contribute alio studio dei tannini, Zeitscb. wiss. 

Mikroskopie, zgoS, zs, 1^20; X909, a6» 59-64* 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin bt J. J. Blanksma. Trctnsformation du l-gulose et du l-idose en 

I'Sorbose. Kec* trav. Chim., 1908, 97, x-4. 
W. A. VAN Ekbnstbin and J. J. Blanksma. Bildung von Laevulins&ure aus Hexosen, 

Cbem. Weekblad, 19x0, 7, 387-390. 
W. A. VAN Ekenstbin and J. J. Blanksma. w-Oxymethylfurfurol als Vrsache einige 

FarbreakHon^ der Hexosen. Ber., xgxo, 43^ 2355-2361. 
H. J. H. Fenton. Oxidation in presence of iron. Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc., 1902, 11, 

358-574. 
E. Fischer. Reduktion von Sduren der Zuckergrupfe. Ber., 1889, 22^ 2204-2205 ; 1890, 

33» 930-938 ; 2625-2628. 
E. Fischer. Ueber Kohlenstoffreichere Zuckerarten aus Glucose. Annalen, X892, 270^ 

64-X07. 
E. FiscHBR. Ueber Kohlenstoffreichere Zucker aus Galactose. Annalen, 1895, 288, X39- 

157. 
E. Fischer und K. Freudbnbbrg. Ueber das Tannin und die Synthese Sknlicher Stoffe. 

Ber., X9X2, 4S 915-935- 
E. Fischer und K. Hess. Verbindungen einiger Zucker-Derivate mit Methyl-magne" 

siumjodid. Ber., X9X2, 45, 912-915. 
E. Fischer und W. Passmore. Ueber Kohlenstoffreichere Zuckerarten aus d-Mannose, 

Ber., X890, 23, 2226-2239. 
E. Fischer und O. Piloty. Ueber Kohlenstoffreichere Zuckerarten aus Rhamnose, Ber., 

i8go, 23, 3102-31 10. 
A. V. Grote, E. Kehrer und B. Tollens. Untersuchungen ueber die Ldvulinsdure oder 

^acetopropionsaure. I. Darstellung und Eigenschaften der Ldvulinsdure. Annalen, 

x88i, 206^ 207. II. Bildung der Ldvulinsdure aus verse hiedenen Kohlenhydraten. 

Annalen, i88x, 206, 226. 
M. OuEBBRT. Transformation des oxyacides a en aldehydes par ebulition de la solution 

aqueuse de leurs sels mercurique^ application d la preparation de Varabinose gauche 

au moyen du gluconate mercurique. Compt. rend., X908, 146, X32-Z34. 
M. Hauriot. Chhraloses (Resume). Ann. Chim. Phys., 1909, i^ 466-502. 
H. HiLDEBRANDT. Zur frogc der glycosidischen Struktur gepaarter Glykuronsduren. 

Beitr. Chem. path., 1905, 7, 438-454. 
C. S. Hudson. A Relation between the Chemical Constitution and the optical rotatory 

power of the sugar lactones. J. Amer. Chem. Soc, 1910, 32, 338-346. 
K. Inouyb. Die Einwirkung von Zinkoxyd-Ammoniak auf d*Galaktose und VArabinose* 

Ber., X907, 40, i89o-x^2. 
H. KiLiANi. Das Cyanhydrin der Ldvulose. Ber., 1885, x8; 3066-3072. 
H. KiLiANi. Das Cyanhydrin der Ldvulose. Ber., x886, 19^ 22X-227. 
H. KiLiANi. Darstellung von Glycolsdure aus Zucker. Annalen, x88o, 20S X9X-X93. 
H. KiLiANi. Die Einwirkung von Blausdure auf Dextrose. Ber., 1886, 19, 767-772. 

141 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 CARBOHYDRATES 

H. KiLXANi. DU ConsfitutioH der Dextros$carhons&ure, Ber., z886, 19, zz28-zz3o. 

H. KzLiANi: Die Cg-Zucker aus Meta- und Pam-Saccharin, Ber., Z908, 41, Z20-Z24. 

H. KiLiANi. Saccharintduren, Ber., Z908, 41, 469-470. 

H. KiLZANi. Ueber dU Einwirhung von Calciumhydroxyd auf Milchzucker. Ber., Z909, 

42, 3903-3904. 
W. T. Lawrbncb. Ueber Verbindungen der Zucker mit dem Athylent Trimethylen und 

Benzylmercaptan, Ber., Z896, ap, 547-552. 
C. A. LoBRY DB Bruyn. AcHon des Alcalis diluSs sur let hydrates de carbonne, Rec. trav. 

Chim., Z895, 14, Z56-Z65. 
C. A. LoBRY DE Bruyn bt A. van Ekenbtbin. Action des alcalis sur les sucres. II. 

Transformation rSciproque des uns dans les autres des sucres glucose, fructose et 

mannose. Rec. trav. Chim., Z895, 14, 204-2Z6. 
A« Maonu8-Lbvy. Ueber Paarung der Glukuronsdure mit optischen Antipoden, Biochem. 

Zcit., zg[07, 2, 319-331. 
P. Mayer. Uber asymnutrische Glucuronsdurefaarung» Biodiem. Zeit., 1908, 9, 

439-44I. 
R. S. MoRRBLL AND A. E. Bellars. Some compounds of guanidine with sugars. J. 

Chem. Soc., Z907, 91, ZOZ0-Z033. 
C. Nbubbrq. Zur Kenntniss der Qlukurons&ure. Ber., Z900, 33^ 3317-3323. 
C. Nbuberq und E. Krbtschmbr. Ueber p-Kresolglucuronsdure, Biochem. Zeit, zgzz, 

3fif 15-21. 
C. Nbubero und S. Lachmann. Ueber ein neues Verfahren zur Gewinnung von Glucuron- 

sdure und MenthoUGlucuronsaure. Biochem. Zeit, xgzo, 24, 4Z6-422. 
Th. R. Offer. Eine neue Gruppe von stickstoffhaltigen Kohlenhydrate, Bdtr. Chem. 

Physiol. Path., Z906, 8; 399-405. 
L. H. Philippe. Les acides glucodiconiques, Compt. Rend., xgzo, 151, 986-988, Z366- 

1367. 
L. H. Philippb. Recherches sur les matieres sucries supirieures derivees du glucose. Ann. 

Chem. Phys., Z9Z2, [viii], 26, 289-4x8. [A T6sum6,] 
O. Ruff. Die Verwandlung der d-Gluconsdure in d-Arabinose. Ber., X898, 31, Z573-Z577. 
O. Ruff, d- und r-Arabinose. Ber., Z899, 32, 550-560. 
O. Ruff. d-Erythrose, Ber., Z899, 32^ 3672-3681. 
£• SALKOW8KI and C. Nbubero. Zur Kenntniss der Phenolglukuronsaure, Biochem. 

Zeit, Z907, a, 307-3". 
K. Smolenski. Ueber eine gepaarte glukuronsdure aus der Zuckerrube, Zeitsch. Physiol. 

Chem., zgii, 71, 266-269. 
B. T0LLBN8 und Boddbner. Untersuchungen Uber die Arabonsdure, Z. Ver. Deut. 

Zuckerind., xgio, 60^ 727. 
A« Windaus und F. Koop. Ueberfuhrung von Traubenzucker in Methylimidazol. Ber., 

19051 ^ ZZ66-ZZ70. 
A. Windaus. Zersetzung von Traubenzucker durch Zinkhydroxyd'Ammoniak bei Gegen- 

wart von Acetaldehyd. Ber., Z906, 39, 3886-389Z. 
A. Windaus. Einwirhung von Zinkhydroxyd-Ammoniak auf eimge Zucherarten. Ber. 

1907, 4Q» 799-802. 
K WoHL. Abbau des Traubenzuchers. Ber., Z893, a6» 730-744. 
A. WoHL. Abbau der Galactose. Ber., Z897, 30^ 3ZOZ-3Z08. 
A. WoHL. Abbau der l-Arabinose. Ber., Z899, 32, 3666-3672« 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO PHENYLHYDRAZONES, OSAZONES. ETC. 

R. Bbhrbno und F. Lohr. Pkenylkydraxone der Glucosi. Annalen, 1907, 353, io6-Z22 

1908, 363, 78-114 ; 1910, 377, 189-220. 
R. Bbrrbnd und W. Rbinsbbro. Ober die Phmylhydraxone dtt Glucose. Annalen, 

iQiOf 377» 189-220. 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin bt J. J. Blanksma. HydraMones dSrivees des nitrophenylhydraxinei. 

Rcc. trav. Chim., 1903, 23, 434-439; i905i 34» 33-39- 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin und Lobry db Bruyn. Isomerie bet den fi-Naphthylhydrazonen der 

Zucker. Ber., 1902, 3082-3085. 
£. FiscHBR. Verbindungen des PhenylhvdraMins mit den Zuckerarten, I.-V. Ber., 1884, 

17. 579-584; 1887, 20, 821-834; 1888, 21, 988-991; 2631-2634; 1889, 22, 87.97. 
E. FiscHBR. Schmehpunkt des PhenylhydraMins und einiger osaMone. Ber., 1908, 41, 73-77. 
E. FiscHBR UND E. F. Armstrong. Darstellung der Osone aus den Osazonen der 

Zucker. Ber., 1902, 35, 3x41-3144. 
A. HxLGBR UND S. RoTHBNFussBR. Ueber die Bedeutung der fi-Naphthylhydraxone der 

Zuckerarten fur deren Brkennung und Trennung. Ber., 1902, 35, 1841-1845, 4444- 

4447- 
H. Jacobi. BirotaHon und Hydrastonbildung bei einigen Zuckerarten. Annalen, 1892, 

272, 170-182. 

E. C. Kendall and H. C. Shbrman. Detection of reducing sugars by condensation with 

p-bromobenMylhydrazine. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1908, 30, 1451-1455. 
C. A. Lobry db Bruyn bt A. van Ekbnstbin. Quelques nouvelles hydraMones des sucres : 

les naphthylhydrazones et les phSnylhydrazones alcylees (tnithyl-^ ethyl', amyU, 

allyl-t et benzyl), Rec. trav. Chim., 1896, 15, 97-99, 225-229. 
L. Maqubnnb. Vemploi de la phenylhydrazine d la determination des sucres, Compt. 

rend., 1891, XX2, 799-802. 

A. MuTHBR UND B. ToLLBNS. Eiuige Hydrazone und ihre Schmelzpunkte. Fucose, 

Rhodeose, Ber., 1904, 37, 298-305, 3iJC-3i5* 
C. Nbubbrg. Ueber die Reinigung der Osazone und zur BesHmmung \ihrer optischen 

Drehungsrichtung. Ber., 1899, 32, 3384-3388. 
C. Neubbrq. Ueber die Jsolirung der Ketosen. Ber., 1902, 35, 959-966, 2626-2633. 
C Nbubbrg. Die Methylphenylhydrazinreaction der Fructose. Ber., 1904, 37, 46x6-4618. 
C. Nbubbrg und M. Fbdbrbr. Ueber d-Amylphenylhydrazin. Ber., 1905, 38, 866-868. 
C. Nbubbrg und H. Strauss. Ueber Vorkommen und Nachweis von Fruchtzucker in den 

menschlichen Kdfpersaften. Z. physiol. Chem., 1902, 36, 227-238. 
R. Ofnbr. Einwirkung von Benzylphenylhydrazin auf Zucker. Ber., 1904, 37, 2623- 

2625. 
R. Ofnbr. Einwirkung von Methylphenylhydrazin auf Zucker. Ber., 1904, 37, 3362- 

3363. 

B. Ofnbr. Abscheidung von Aldosen durch secunddre Hydrazine. Ber., X904, 37, 4399* 

4402. 

A. Rbclairb. Beitrdge zur Kenntnis der Hydrazone der Zuckerarten : 0-, m-, und p-Nitro- 

phenyl hydrazone. Ber., 1908, 41, 3665-3671. 
O. Ruff und G. Ollendorff. Verfahren zur Reindarstellung und Trennung von Zuckern. 

Ber., 1899, 32. 3234-3237- 
L. J. Simon bt H. B^nard. Sur les phenylhydr ozones du d-glucose et leur multirotation. 

Compt. rend., 1901, 132, 564-566. 
R. Stabbl. Derivate des Diphenylhydrcusins und Methylphenylhydrazins. Annalen, 

1890, 9581 242-25X. 

B. Tollbns und a. D. Maurbnbrbcher. • Ueber die Diphenylhydrazone der UArabinose 

und der Xylose. Ber., X905, 38, 500-501. 

F. Tutin. The melting-point of d-phenylglucosazone, Proc. Chem. Soc, 1907, ^, 250- 

252. 
£. VotoSek und R. Vondra^bk. Trennung und Isolirung redudrender Zuckerarten 
mittels aromatischer Hydrazine. Ber., 1903, 36, 4372 ; 1904, 37, 3854-3858. 

143 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO GLUCOSAMINE. 

R. Breubr. DasftiU Chitosamin. Bet., 1898, 31, 2x93-2200. 

E. FucBBR UMD £. Andrbab. Usbsr ChiUmsSure und Chitarsaure. Ber., 1903, 36, 2587- 

2592. 
E. FiscHBR UND H. Lbuchs. SytUhne des Ssrinst der l-Glucasaminsaurg und audsrer 

Oxyandnosduren. Ber., 1902, 35, 3787-3805. 

£. FiscHBR UMD H. Lbuchs. Syntkds* des d-Qlucosamins, Ber., 1903, 316, 24-29. 

E. FiBCHBR UMD F. TiBMAMM. UehgT dos Glu£Osamin, Ber., 1894, 27, 138-147. 

E. FiscBBR UMD K. Zach. Niue Synthess vom Btuen dn Zwk$rgrupp4. Ber., 19x1, 44, 

X3a-X35- 
S. Frankbl UND A. Kblly. CoHsHtutian des Ckitins, Monatah., 1902, 2^ X23-X32. 
J. C. Irvinb. a polarimetric method of identifying Ckitin, J. Chem. Soc., X909, 95, 

564-570. 
J. C. Irvine and A. Hynd. Conversion of d-glucosamine into d-glucose. Trans. Chem. 

Soc., 1912, lox, 1x28-1x46. 
J. C. Irvine, D. McNicoll and A. Hynd. New derivatives of d-glucoseanine. Trans. 

Chem. Soc., 19x1, 99, 250-261. 
G. Lbdderhosb. Ueber Chitin und seine Spaltungsfrodukte, Zeit physid. Chem., X878, 

a, 213-227. 
C. A. Lobby db Bruyn. Un dirivi ammoniacal du fructose, Rec. trav. Chim., 1899, i8y 

72-76 ; La ckiiosamine libre, I.e., 77-85. 
C. A. LoBRY DB Bruyn bt F. H. van Lbbnt. DSrives ammoniacaux de quelques sucres. 

Rec. trav. Chim., 1895, 14, X34-X48. 
C. A. Lobby db Bruyn bt A. P. N. Franchimont. Dirivh ammoniacaux cristallisSs 

dehydrates de carbonne. Rec. trav. Chim., X894, 12, 286-289 ; 1896, 15, 81-83. 
C. A. Lobry db Bruyn und A. P. N. Franchimont. Die Ammaniakderivate der Kohlen- 

hydrate, Ber., 1895, 26, 3082-3084; Das freie Chitosamin, Ber., 1898, 31, 2476- 

2477- 
L. Maqubnnb bt E. Roux. Sur une nouvelle base dSrivee du glucose. Compt. rend., X901, 

13a, 980.983; 1903, I37f 658. 
C. Neubero. Ueber d-Glucosamin und Chitose, Ber., X902| 35, 4009-4023. 
C. Nbuberg und H. Wolff. Ueber a- und fi-^-AminO'd-Xrlucoheptonsaure. Ber., 1903, 

36, 6x8-620. 
Th. R. Offer, (fber Chitin. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1907, 7, 117-127. 
E. Rous. Sur des nouvelles bases derivies des pentoses et du mannose. Comp. rend., X903, 

136, 1079-108X ; 1904, 138, 503-505' Ann. Chim. phys., 1904, I, 72-144* X60-185. 
H. Steudbl. Eine neue Methode xum Nachweis von Glukosamin und ihre Anwendung 

auf die Spaltungsprodukte der Mucine. Zeit. physiol. Chem., 1902, 34, 353-384. 
K. Stolte. Ueber das Verhalten des Glucosamins und seines ndchsten Umwandlungs- 

produktes im Thierkorper. Beitr. Chem. Phystd. Path., 1907, zi, 19-34. 
K. Stolte. Ueber den Abbau des Fructosazins (Ditetra-oxybutylpyrckxins) im Thier- 
korper. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1908, 12, 499-509. 

E. E. SuNDWiK. Zur Constitution des Chitins. Zeit. physiol. Chem., x88x, 5, 384-394. 
C. Tanret. Les Glucosines. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1897, [iii], 17, 80X-802. Le chlorhydrate 

de Glucosamin. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1897, I.e., 802-805. 

F. Tiemann. Einiges uber den Abbau von salzsauren Glucosamin. Ber., 1884, 17, 241- 

251. 
F. Tiemann. Glucosamin. Ber., 1886, 19, 49-53. 
F. Tiemann. Jsozuckersdure. Ber., x886, 19, 1257-128X. 
F. Tiemann und E. Fischer. Deis Glucosamin. Ber., 1894, 27, 138-147. 
E. WiNTERSTEiN. Zur Kenntniss der in den Membran der Pilze enthaltenen Bestandtheile I. 

Zeit. physiol. Chem., 1894, 19, 52X-562. 

. ^♦4 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO GLUCOSE PHOSPHATES. 

P. Carr^. Les lathers polyphosphoriques de la manniU de la quercite, du glucose ^ et </# 

IHnoHU, Boll. Soc. Chim., igiz, [iv], 9, 195-199. 
A. CoNTARDX. EUrifosforici di aleuni idrati di Carbania, Rend. Ace. Lin. Sci., 19x0. 

825-827. 
A. Harden and W. J. Youno. Composition of the hexose phosphoric add formed by yeast 

juice^ L, n. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1911, 32, 173-188. 
K. Langhbld. Ueber Dioxyaceton- und Fructose-phosphorsdure, Bet,, 1912, 45, 1125- 

1127. 
A. von Lebbdbff. Ueber Hexosephosphorsdure Ester, l», H. Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x0^ 

28, 2x3-229; 191 1, 36, 248-260. 
C. Neubbro and E. Krbtschmbr. Weiteres uber kunstliche Darstellung von KohUn* 

hydratphosphorsdureestem und Glycerinphosphorsdure, Biochem. Zeitsch., 191 1» 

36» 5-14. 
C. Neubbro and H. Pollak. Ueber Phosphorsaure- und Schwefelsdure Ester von 

Kohlenhydraten. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1910, 26, 514-528. 
W. J. Younq. Hexose phosphate formed by yeast juice from hexose and a phosphate, 

Proc Roy. Soc., 1909, 13, 8x, 528-545. 



145 10 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO CHAPTER III.— HEXOSES. 

G. Bbrtrand. Sur lapreparaHon biochimique di Sorbose, Compt rend., 1896, I22» 

90a Bull. Soc. Chim., z8g6, 15, 627. 
O. Bertrand. Action de la bacUrit du Sorbou sur lis tUcooU plurivaUnts, Compt. 

rend., 1898, za6, 7^* 
D. H. Brauns. Lavulost psntacetate. Proc. K. Akad. Wetenscfa., Amsterdam, 1908, 10 , 

563. 
A. VAN ExBNSTEiN AND J. J. Blanksma. LavofotaHoft of mannost. Chem. Weekblad., 

1907. 4t 5II-5I4- 
A. van Ekbnstbin and J. J. Blanksma. Sug^ars [fyxose, gulose^ talose, etc,]. Chem. 

WeekWad., 1907, 4> 743-748 ; X9o8, & 777-78i. 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin bt J. J. Blanksma. TransformaHoH du l-gulose ti du l-idose en 

Uaotbose. Ree» ttav. Chim., 1908, a/, 1-4* 
H. J. H. Fenton and M. Gostlinq. Bromometkylfmi/uf aldehyde. The action of hydrogen 

bromide on emrbokydraUs. J. Chen. Soc^ 1899, 7S 4^3 : X90i« 79^ 361. 
£. Fischer und L. Bbbnsch. Ueber die beiden opHsch isomeren Metkylmamtaside* Ber., 

1896, J9^ a927-293i. 
£. Fischer und J. Hirschbbroer. Ueber Marnnooe, l^IV. Ber., x888, ax, 180S-X809 

X889, 9M, 365-376; 1155-1x56; 3a»8-3M4. 
A. Hilobr. Zur Kenntniss der PJlanMenschleime, Ber., 1903, 56, 3x97-3^03. 
J. C. Irvine and C. S. Garrett. Acetone derivaii9es of d-fructou. Ttaas. Chem. Soc., 

1910, 97, 1277-1284. 
A. JoLLES. Zur Kenntnis des ZerfaiU der Zuekerariem, Bioehcm. Zekich., 1910, 29, 

Z52-20Z. 

A. JoLLES. Binwirkung von Ammonsak und von Nairiumcarbonai antf vemhiedene 

Zuckerarten in verdnnnter wdsseriger Losung, Biochem. Zdtsch,, Z91X, 5a» 9>zoo. 
H. KiLUNL Inulin, Annalen, x88o, ao5i X45-190. 
H. KiLiANL Saccharins&ure, Ber., 19x1, 44, xo9-zx3. 
H. KiLiANi UND C. ScHEiBLBR. Die ConsHtuHon der Sorbinose, Ber., x888, ai, 3276- 

3281. 
P. A. Levene and W. a. Jacobs. Ueber die Hexosen aus der d-Ribose. Ber., X9X0, 43, 

3x41-3147. 
£. O. VON LiPPMANN. Bin Vorkommen von d-Galaktose. Ber., 19x0, 43, 36XX-36X2. 
IV. L6b. Zur Geschichte der ehemischen G&rungshypothesen, Biochem. Zeitsch., X910, 

39, 311-315. 
W. LdB und G. Pulvermachbr. BUktrolyse des Glycerins und des Glykols. Biochem. 

Zeits., X909, X7, 343-355. 
IV. LoB AND G. Pulvermachbr. Zur Kenntnis der Zuckerspaltungen, Ueber die 

Zuckersynthese, aus Pormaldehyd. Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x0, 26, 23X-237. 
IV. LdB AND G. Pulvermachbr. Zuckerspaltungen, VII., Die Umkehrung der Zucker- 

synthese, Biochem. Zeitsch., 1909, 23, 10-26. 
P. Mayer. Ueber Zerstorung von Traubenzucker durch LichU Biochem. Zeitsch., X911 , 

aa, x-9. 
J. U. Nbf. Dissoziationsvorgdnge in der Zuchergruppe, II., Verhalten der Zuckerarten- 

, g^g^n Atstalkalien, Annalen, 19x0, 376, x-xxg. 
C. Neubbro und J. Wohlgemuth. Ueber die Darstellung der dl- und l-galactose. Zeit. 

physioL Chem., 1902, 36^ 2x9-226. 
£. Reiss. Die in den Samen als Reservestoff abgelagerte Cellulose und nne daraus 

erhaltene neue Zuckerart, die " Seminose ". Ber., 1889, 23, 609-6x3. 

B. ToLLENS und R. Gans. Quitten- und Salepschleim, Annalen, x888, 349, 245-257. 

F. W. Upson. Action of normal barium hydroxide on glucose and galactose, Amer. 
Chem. J., 1911, 45, 458-479. 

X46 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO PENTOSES. 

G. Bbrtrand. Ruh$rchis sur qustques dirivis du xylose. Ball. Soc. Chim., 1891, 5, 

546-554- 
T. BoKORNY. Assimilaiian von Pentosen und PentiUn, dutch Pflanzen, Chem. Zeit., 

ZgZO, 34, 220-22I. 

O. Chavannb. Ouslqu4s derives de VaraHnose [acetobromo ei iuetochlorO'arahinose\ 

Compt rend., 1902, 154, 661-663. 
E. Fischer uno H. Herborn. Vher Jsorhamnose, Ber., 1896, ap, Z96z. 
£. FiscHBR UND C. LiEBBRMANN. Uebet Chinovose und Chinovit» Ber., Z893, 26, 24Z5- 

2420. 

B. Fischer und J. Tafbl. OxydaHon der mehrwerthigen Alkahole. Bet., Z887, ao, 

Z088-Z094. 

E. Fischer und J. Tafbl. OxydaHon des Glycerins, I.-II. Ber., z888, ai, 2634-2637 ; 

Z889, aa^ Z06-ZZ0. 
E. Fischer und J. Tafel. Ueber Isodulcit Ber., 1888, ax, Z657.Z660 ; 2Z73-2Z76. 
A. OUNTHER UND B. ToLLENS. UebcT die Fukoset einen der Rhamnose isomeren Zucker ans 

dem Seetang. Ber.» 1890, 9^ Z75z-X75a, 2585^586^ 

C. S. Hudson. Stereochemical Configuration of Fucose and Rhodeose. J. Amer. Chem. 

Soc, X9Zi» 33^ 405-4Z0. 
H. KiLiANi. Die Zusammensetsung und Constitution der Arabinosecarbonsdure besw, 

der Arabinose, Bern Z887, ao» 282, 339-346. 
£. Lbobr. Sur VakHnose ou sucre d^alcine. Compt rend., zgzo, 150, 983-986. 
E. Legbr. Sur VaUnnose cristalHsS; son identitS avec VaraHnose-d, Compt. rend., Z9Z0, 

I50» 1695-Z697. 

A. MuTHER UND B. ToLLENs. Die Fucose und die Fuconsdute und die Vergleickung 

derselben mit der Rhodeose und Rhodeonsaure, Ber., Z904, 57, 306-311. 
C. Nbubbro. Die Hampentose, ein ofHsch inactive, natUrlich vorkommendes KohUnhydrai, 

Ber., Z900, 3i 2243-2254. 
C Nbubbro und J. Wohlqbmuth. Ueber d-Arahinose, d-Arabonsdure und die quanHtatifoe 

BesHmmung von Arabinose, Zeit. physiol. Chem., Z902, 35, 3Z-40. 
£. PiNOFF. Studien ueber die Tollensche Phlorogltuin-SaUsdure-Reakiion auf Pentosen, 

Ber., Z905, 38, 766. 
C Ravenna b O. Cerbser. SulV origine e sulla funzione fisiologiea del pentosans nelle 

piante, Atti. R. Accad. Lincei. Z909, [v], x8, ii, Z77-183. 

B. Rayman. Isodulcite, Bull. Soc. Chim., Z887, [ii], 47, 668-677. 
O. Rupp. d- und dl-Arabinose. Ber., X899, 32^ 550-560. 

£. Salxowski und C. Nbubbro. Die Verwandlung von d^lucuronsdure in UXylose, 
Zeit. physioL Chem., Z902, 36^ 26Z-267. 

C. ScHULZE UND B. ToLLBNS. Ueber die Xylose und ihre Drehungserscheinungen, 

Annalen, Z892, a7x, 40-46. 
C O'SuLLivAN. Gtun tragacanth (l-Xylose). J. Chem. Soc., zgoz, 79^ IZ64-ZZ85. 
B. ToLLENS. Ueber den Nachweis der Pentosen mittelst der PhlorogluHn^alxsaure' 

Methode. Ber., Z896, a9, Z202-Z209. , 

E. VoNOBRiCHTBN. Vber Apiin und Apiose, Annalen, Z90Z, 318; Z2Z-Z36. 
E. VoNOERicHTBN. Ueber Apiose, eine fi-Oxymethylerythrose, Annalen, Z902, 32X, 71-83. 
E. VoNQBRiCRTEN UND Fr. Mullbr. Apiosc, Ber., Z906, 39, 235-240. 
H. J. Wheeler und B. Tollens. Ueber die Xylose oder den Holzzucker, eine zweite 

Pentose, Annalen, Z889, a54, 304. 
£, VotoSbk. Rhodeose. Chem. Centralblatt, Z900, i., 803, 8z6 ; Z90Z, i., Z042 ; Z902, ii., 

Z36X. 

147 10 * 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



148 CARBOHYDRATES 

£. VotoSek. Uebgf dig Glykosidsauren des C<mvolvuUns und die ZusammensetMung der 

roheu Isorhodsou. Ber., xgzo, 43, 476-482. 
£. VotoSek. Iso-Rhodeose, Ber., zgiz, 44, 8x9-824. 
£. VotoSbk. Co^figuratkm der Rhadeose, Ber., zgio, 43, 469-475. 
£. VotoSbk and C. Krauz. Bfi-Rhodeou. Ber., 19x1, 44, 362-365. 
£. VoTo(^BK UND H. NSmb^bk. KineHscke Studien in der Zuekerreihe. Zeit. Zucherind. 

Bohm., X9X0, 34, 237-248. 
£. VotoCbk und R. VoNDRiCcBK. ZuckercomfoHenten des yalapins undanderen Pfianzen- 

glucoside, Chem. Centralblatt, 1903, i., 884, X035. 



REFER£NCES TO CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS. 

J. BouoAULT ET G. Allard. Sut la prhence de la volemite dans quelques Primulacees. 

Compt rend., 1902, XJS 796-797« 
E. Fischer. Ueher Adonit, einen neuen PentiL Ber., 1893, a6» 633-639. 
E. Fischer. Ueber den VoUmit, einen neuen HepHt. Ber., 1895, 26, 1973-X974. 
L. Maquenne. PersSite. Compt. rend., x888, 106, X235-X238. 
L. Maquenne. Le poids moUculaire et sur la valence de la perseite, Compt. rend., x888, 

107. 583-586. 
L. Maquenne. Synthase partielle de Veryihrite gauche, Compt. rend., 1900, 130, X402- 

X404. 
L« Maqubnnb bt G. Bbrtrand. Sur les Srythrites actives et racimique, Compt rend», 

X901, 132^ X4X9-X42X, Z565-X567. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1901, 25, 740-745. 
E. Merck. Adonite, Arch. Pharm., 1893, 231, X29-X3X. 
A« Muntz bt V. Marcano. La PersHte, matiire sucree, analogue a la mannite. Compt. 

rend., 1884, 99^ 38-40. 
O. Trbboux. Stdrkebildung aus Sarbit bei Rosaceen, Ber. Deut. Bot. Ges., X909, 27, 

507-5XX. 
C, Vincent bt J. Meunibr. Un nouveau sucre accompagnant la sorbite, Compt. rend.» 

X898, 127, 760-762. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO DISACCHARIDES. 

A. Albkhinb. MeUMttou. hxau Chim. PhyB., 1889, [vi]» x8; 533-551 ; J. Russ. Chem. 
Soc., 1889, ax, 407-421. 

A, Bau. BHtrage zur Kenntmss der M^Hbiose, Chem. Zdt, 1897, ax, 186 ; und 1902, 

a6» 69-70- 
G. Bertrand. ConsHtuHon d* Viciauose : hydrolyse diastasique. Compt rend., 19x0 

XSX, 325-327- 
G. Bbrtrand bt a. Compton. Sur Vindividualite de la cetlase et de Vhnulsine, Compt. 

rend., 19x0, 15Z, 402-404. 
G. Bbrtrand bt A. Compton. Influence de la temperature sur VactivitS de la cellase. 

Compt rend., 1910, z5Xy 1076-1079. 
G. Bbrtrand bt A. Compton. In^uence de la reaction du milieu sur VactiviU de la 

cellcLse, Nouveau caractere dutincHf d*avec Vemulsine» Compt rend., X9ZZ, X53» 

360-363. 
G. Bbrtrand and M. Holdbrbr. La Cellase et le dedoublement diastasique du eellose, 

Compt rend., 1909, 149^ X385-i387 ; 19x0, 150, 230-232. 
G. Bbrtrand bt G. Wbiswbillbr. Le Vicianose, nouveau sucre rSducteur en C^j. Compt 

rend., 19x0, X50^ x8o-z82. 
G. Bbrtrand bt G. Wbiswbillbr. Le Constitution du vieianose et de la vidaninem 

Compt rend., X9X0, X5x, 884-886. 
Em. Bourqublot. Les maMhres sucries de quelques especes de champignons, Compt 

rend., 1889, 108, 568-570. 
Em. Bourqublot. Les matUres sucrees cheu les champignons. Compt rend., 1890, xxx, 

578-580. 
Em. Bourqublot. La repartition des matihres sucrees dans Us differentes parties du Cipe 

comestible {Boletus edulis. Bull,). Compt rend., X892, 1x3, 749-75 x. 
Em. Bourqublot. Sur un ferment soluble nouveau didoublant le trehalose en glucose, 

Compt. rend., X893, zx6» 826. 
E. Fischbr und G. Zbmpl^n. Verhalten der Cellobiose und ihres Osons gegen einige 

Enzyme, Annalen, 1909, 5651 x-6. 
E. Fischbr und G. Zbmplbn. Verhalten der Cellobiose gegen einige Enzyme, Annalen 

X9XO, 37a, 254-256. 
E. Fischbr und G. Zbmplbn. Derivate der Cellobiose, Ber., X9X0, 43, 2536-2543. 
R. Fobrg. Ueber die Glycolisierung von Biosen, Monatsh., X903, 2^ 357-363. 
J. GiAjA. Sur risolement d'un sucre biose derivant de Vamygdaline, Compt rend., 19x0, 

X50» 793-796. 
P. Haranq. Recherche et dosage du trehalose dans les vegStaux d Vaide de la trehalase, 

J. Pharm. Chim., 1906, 93, x6. 
E. R. VON Hardt-Strbmayr. Acetylderivate der Cellobiose, Monatsh., 1907, aS, 63-72. 
C. S. Hudson. Inversion of sucrose 6y invertase^ I., II. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., X908, 30, 

ix6o-xx66; X564-X583. 
L. Maqubnnb bt W. Goodwin. Celhse, Bull. Soc. Chim., 1904, 31, 854-859. 
W. ScHLiBMANN. Ucbcr die Cellobiose und die Acetolyse der Cellulose, Annalen, X9xz, 

378, 366-38X. 
Z. H. Skraup. Vber Starke, Glykogen und Cellulose, Monatsh., X905, a6» 14x5-1472. 
Z. H. Skraup und J. KdNio. Ueber die Cellobiose, Monatsh., X90X, aa^ X01X-X036. 

Ber., X90X, 34, XXX5-XXX8. 



X49 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO LACTOSE. 

H. BiBKRY ET J. GiAjA. Le didouhlittuHt dUuttuiqus, du lactose, du maltose et d$ leurs 
derivis* Compt rend., 1908, 147, 268-270. 

A. BoDART. HeptacetylchlormilchMucker. Monatsli., xgos, ^ 1-8. 

R. DiTTMAR. Abkommlinge des Milchzuckers, Ber., 1902, 55, 1951-1953. 
DuBRUNPAUT. Milk-sugar. Compt. rend., 1856, 43^ 228-233. 
E. O. Erdmann. Ueber wasserfreien MUehzucker. Ber., z88o, xj, 2x80-2x84. 
E. P18CHBR UND H. FiscHBR. Derivate dev Maltose, Ber., 1910, 43, 2521-2536. 

E. FiscHBR UMD J. Mbybr. Oxydatum des MilchMUckers, Ber., 1889, 22^ 361-364. 

C. S. Hudson. Ueber die Multirotation des Milchzuckers, Zeit. physikal. Cbem., X903, 

44, 487-494. 
C. S. Hudson. The hydration of milk sugar in solution, J. Amer. Cbem. Soc., 1904, a6» 

X065-X082. 
C. S. HuDStm. Forwu oflaetose. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., x{)o8, 50^ X767.X783. 

C. S. Hudson and F. C. Brown. Heats of solution of the three forms oflaetou, J. Amer. 

Chem. Soc., X908, 30^ 960-971. 

F. H. A. Marshall and J. M. Kirkness. Formation of lactose. Biochem. J., 1906, 2, 

1-6. 

D. NoBL Paton and E. p. Cathcart. On the mode of production of laetou in the 

mammary gland. J. PhysioL, 191X, 42^ X79-188. 
R. H. Aders Plimmbr. Presence of lactase in the intestines of animals and the adaptation 

of the intestine to lactose. J. Physiol., 1906, 35, ao-31. 
Ch. Porchbr. Sur la lactophSnylosazone, Bull. Soc. Chim., X903, 39, X223*X227. 
Ch. Porchbr. Stir Porigine du lactose. Compt. rend., X904, 138, 833-836; 924-926; 

1457-1459. 
Ch. Porchbr. Sur I'origine du lactose. Compt rend., 1905, 140, X279. 
Ch. Porchbr. Sur Vorigine du Itutose. Compt. rend., 1905, 141, 73-75 ; 467-469. 
O. Reinbrbcht. Lactose- und Maltosecarbonsdure. Annalen, 1892, 272^ 197-200. 
M. Schmobqbr. Notiz uber acetylirten Milchzucker und uber die im polarisirten Licht 

sich verschieden verhaltenden Modificationen des Milchzuckers. Ber., 1892, 25, 

I452-X455- 
Z. H. Skraup und R. Krbmann. Ueber Acetochlormilchzucker. Monatsh., 1901, 22, 

375-384* 

B. Tollens und W. H. Kent. Untersuehungen Uber Milchzucker uni Galactose. 

Annalen, 1885, 227, 221-232. 
H. Trey. Rotationserscheinungen der Laktose. Zeit. physikal Chem., 1903, 46^ 620-7x9. 



X50 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO MALTOSE. 

J. L. Baker and F. E. Day. The preparation of pure maltose. Report Brit Assoc., 

Dublin, 1908, 671-672. 
DuBRUNFAUT. Le Glucose, Ann. Chim. phys., 1847, [iil], 21, 178-180. 
£. Fischer und H. Fischer. Derivate des Milchzuckers und der Maltose; und zwei 

neue Glucoside. Ber., 1910, 43, 2521-2536. 
E. Fischer und J. Meyer. Oxydation der Maltose, Ber., 1889, 22, X94Z-1943. 
R. FoERG. Heptacttylcklormaltose. Monatsh., 1902, 93, 44-50. 
A. Heszfbld. Maltose, Aniutleti, 1883, aao^ 206-224. 
W. KoENiGS UND E. Knorr. Htptocstylmaltosinitwat und Heptacetyl-fi-msthybnaltosid. 

Ber., 1901, 34, 4343.4348- 
T. Db Saussurb. La decomposition de Vamidon d la temperature de VatmosphSre, par 

Vaction de Voir et de Veau. Ann. Chim. phys., 18x9, iz, 379-408. 
G. ScHLiBPHACKB. MutoTOtation der maltose, Annalen, zgio, 377, z64-x88. 
E. ScHULTZE. Maltose, Ber., Z874, 7> Z047-Z049. 
C. O'SuLLiVAN. On the transformation products of starch. J. Chem. Soc, Z872, 35^ 

579-588. 
C. O'SuLLiVAN. On the action of malt-extract on starch, J. Chem. Soc, Z876, 30^ 

X25.X44. 



153: 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO TRISACCHARIDES. 

M. Bbrthelot. Quelquis matiires sucrees. Ann. Chim. phys., 1856, [Hi], 46, 66-89. 

M. Berthblot. Lis corps analogues au sucre de canne, Ann. Chim. phySs., 1859, [iii], 55, 

269-296. 
Em. Bourquelot. Sur la physiologU du gentianose; son didoublemint far Us f$rm$nU 

soluhUs. Compt. rend., 1898, Z26, 1045- 1047. 
E. Bourquelot et M. Brxdbl. Vn sucre nouveau U Verhascose retire de la racine de 

■moUne. Compt. rend., 1910, 151, 760-762. 
Em. Bourquelot et H. HiRisssY. Sur Vhydrolyse du meUtitose par les ferments 

solubles, J. Pharm. Chim., 1896, 4, 385-3^7* 
Em. Bourquelot bt H. H^rxssey. Sur le gentiobiose et gentianose et les ferments 

solubles que determinent Vhydrolyse des polysaccharides. Compt rend., 1901, 152, 

571-574; 1902, 135, 290-292, 399-401 ; 1903, 136, 762-764, 1143.1146. 
Em. Bourquelot et L. Nardin. Sur la preparation du gentianose, Compt. rend., 

1898, X26, 280. 
H. KiLiANi. Ueber die Formeln der Polyscucharide. Chem. Zeit., 1908, 3a, 366. 
J. Khouri. La pr hence du stachyose^ mannotetrose et d^un flucoside didoublable par 

VEmulsine dans les parties souterraines de Feremostachys ladniata. J. Pharm. 

Chim., Z910, [vii], 2, 211-213. 
E. von Lippmann. Die Quelle der in den Producten der Zuckerfabrikaiion enthaltenen 

Raffinose (Melitose), Ber., 1885, z8, 3087-3090. 

D. L018BAU. Une nouvelle substance organique cristallisie [Raffinose], Compt rend., 

1876, 82, 1058- 1060. 
L. Maquennb. La composition de la mielUe du Tilleul, Compt. rend., 1893, zzy, 

127-129. 
A. Meyer. Ueber Gentianose, Zeit physiol. Chem., 1882, 6, I35-Z38« 
C. Neuberg. Abbau der Raffinose mu Rohrsucker und Galaktose, Biochem. Zeit, 1907, 

3, 519. Zeit. ver. deut Zuckerind., 1907, 615, 440-453. 
Pautz und Voobl. Ueber die Einwirkung der Magen und Darmschleimhaut auf Hnige 

Biosen und auf Raffinose, Zeit, Biol., 1895, 32* 304. 
A. VON Planta und E. Schulze. Bin neues krystallisbares Kohlenhydrat, Stachyose, 

Ber., 1890, 23, 1692- Z699; 1891, 24, 2705-2709. 
H. RiTTHAUSEN. McUtose aus Baumwollsamen, J. pr, Chem., 1884, 29, 351-357. 
C. ScHEiBLER. Die Abscheidung von Raffinose aus den RubenzuckermeUissen, Ber., 1885, 

x8, 1409-1413. 
C. Schbiblbr. Die ZusammensetMung und Hnige Eigenschaften der Raffinose, Ber., 

1885, 18, 1779-1786- 
C. Schbiblbr. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Melitriose Raffinose, deren Nachweis und 

quantitative Bestimmung neben Rohrsucker, Ber., 1886, 19, 2868-2874. 
C. Schbiblbr und H. Mittelmbier. Die Inversionsproducte der Melitriose. Ber., 1889, 

22, 1678-1686. 
C. Schbiblbr und H. Mittblmbibr. Weitere Beitrdge Mur Kenntniss der Melitriose 

und der Melibiose, Ber., 1890, 23> 1438-1443. 
£. Schulze. Zur Kenntniss der krystallisirten Stachyose, Landw. Versuchsstat, 1902, 

56, 419-423. 

E. Schulze. Stachyose und Lupeose, Ber., 19x0, 43, 2230-2234. 

E. Schulze und Ch. Godbt. Untersuchungen fiber die in den PJlanMensamen enthcUteneny 

Kohlenhydrate, Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., 1909, 6z, 279-351. 
C. 0*SuLLiVAN. On the presence of '* raffinose " in barley, J. Chem. Soc., z886, 49, 

70-74. 

152 



Digitized by 



Google 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 153 

C. Tanrbt. Sur deux sucres nouveaux niires de ^la tmanne, le mannioteirose $t U 

manninotrios$, Compt rend., 1902, 154, 1586-1589. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1902, 27, 

947-963. 
C. Tamrbt. Sur U stwhyoi$* Compt rend., 1903, 196, Z569-X571. Bull. Soc. Chim., 

1903* apt 888. 
C. Tanrbt bt G. Tanrbt. Sur 1$ rhamninau, Compt. rend., 1899, xag, 725-728. 
G. Tanrbt. MeUx%tos$ $t turanase. Compt. rend., 1906, 142, 1424-1426. 
B. ToLLBNs. Untersuchung von MiUtose oder Raffinose aus Melasse, Baumwollsamen und 

Eucalyptus Manna, Annalen, z886, 23;^, 169-205. 
A. Villibrs. Melitose, Ber., 1877, xOi 232-233. 
J. Vintxlbsco. VacHon des ferments sur U stiuhyose. J. Fharm. Chim., 1909, ^Ot 

167-173. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO THE RELATION BETWEEN CONFIGURATION AND 
BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme action. III. The influence of the products of 

change on the rate of change conditioned by sucroclastic ensymes, Proc. Roy. Soc., 

1904, 73. 516-526. 
E. Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme action, VIII. The muhanism of fermentation, 

Proc Roy. Soc, 1905, 76 B, 600-605. 
E. Frankland Armstrong. The nature of enzyme action, J. Inst. Brewing, 1905, xz» 

443-451. 
H. E. Armstrong. The nature of chemical change and the conditions which determine it, 

J. Chem. Soc, 1895, 67, 1x36 [ix22-xx72]. 
H. E. Armstrong and E. F. Armstrong. Enzyme action, X. The nature of enzymes. 

Proc. Roy. Soc, 1907, 79 B, 360-365. 
H. E. Armstrong, E. F. Armstrong and E. Horton. Enzyme action, XII. The 

enzymes of emulsin, Proc Roy. Soc, 1908, 80 B, 322-331. 
H. P. Barbndrbcht. Enzymwirkung, I., II. Zeit. physikal. Chem., 1904, 49, 456-482 ; 

1906, 54, 367-375. 
G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bacterie du sorbose sur les alcools plurivalents. Bull. Soc. 

Chim., 1898, [iii], xg, 347*349; 947-948; 999-1005. 
G. Bbrtrand. Sur lefroduii d'oxydation de la glycerine par la bacterie du Sorbose, 

Compt rend., 1898, za6^ 842-844. 
G. Bbrtrand. Preparation biochimique de la dioxy acetone cristalUsie, Compt. rend., 

X898, za6, 984-986. 
G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bacterie du Sorbose sur Us sucres de bois, Compt, rend., 

1898, 127, 124-127. 
G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bacterie du Sorbose sur les sucres aldehydiques, Compt. rend., 

X898, 127, 728-730. 
G. Bbrtrand. La Bactirie du Sorbose, Ann. Chim. Phys., 1904, [viii], 3^ 181-288. 
H. Bxbrry. Jnvertines et laccases Animates Leur specifte, Compt. rend., X909, 148, 

949-952. 
H. BiBRRY. Didoublement diastasique des aet ^methyUd-glucosides, Compt rend., X909, 

149,3x4-3x6. 
H. BiBRRY. Ferments digestifs du Manninotriose et de ses Derives, Compt. rend., X9xx, 

X52, 465-467. 
H. BiERRY. Ferments digestifs des Hexotrioses et du Stachyose, Compt. rend., X9XX, 152^ 

904-906. 
H. BiERRY AND J. GiAjA. Sur Ic dedoubUnunt diastasique du lactose^ du maltose et de 

leurs derivh, Compt. rend., X908, 147, 268-270. 
H. BiBRRY BT A. Rang. Le didoublement diastasique des dMvSs du lactose, Compt. 

rend., 19x0, 150, X366-X368. 
Em. Bourqublot. Generalitis sur les ferments solubles qui diterminent Vhydrolyse des 

polysaccharides, Compt rend., X903, 136, 762-764. 

E. Bourqublot bt M. Bridbl. Action de Vinvertine sur les polysaccharides derives du 

levulose, Compt rend., X9xx, 152, X060-X062. 
A. J. Brown. The chemical action of pure cultivations of biuterium aceti, J. Chem. 

Soc, x886, 49, X72-X87. 
R. J. Caldwbll and S. L. Courtauld. Enzyme action, IX. The enzymes of yeast 

^-amygdaleue, Proc. Roy. Soc, X907, 79 B, 350-359. 

F. CzAPBK. Untersuchungen itber die Stichstoff gewinnung und EiwHssbildung der Schim- 

melpilze, Beitr. chem. Physiol. Path., X902, 3, 47-66. 

154 



Digitized by 



Google 



BIBLIOGRAPHY IS5 

F. DiBNBRT. Sur la fertiuntatioH d% galactou, Cosnpt xend., 1899, xa8^ 5^9-571 ; 

617-6x8. 
F. DiBNBRT. Sur la secretion d$s diastoMr, Compt. rend., 1899, 129^ 63-64. 
F. DxBNBRT. Stir la fermentation du Galactose et sur Vauoutumance des levures d ce 

Sucre, Ann. Inst Pftsteur, i90o» 14, 139-189. 
O. Emmbrlino. Zur Kenntniss des Sorbose bacteriums. Bet*, 1899, 32, 541-542. 
O. Emmbrlino. Das verhalien von Glycerinaldehyd und DioxyaceUme gegen Hefe. Ber., 

1899, 32. 542-544. 
E. Fischbr. Einfluss der Konfiguration auf die Wirkung der Enzyme, I.-III. Ber., 1894, 

27, 2985-2993 ; 3479-3483 ; 1895, 28> X429-1438. 
£. Fischbr. Bedeutung der Stereochemie fur die Pkysiologie. Zeit. physioL Chem., 

1898, 26, 60-87. 
£. Fischbr und P. Lindnbr. Ueber die Enzyme einiger Hefen, Ber., 1895, 28» 984- 

986, 3034-3039. 
E. Fischbr und W. Nibbbl. Ueber das Verhalten der Polysaccharide gegen einige 

tierische Sekrete und Organe. Sitzungsber. K. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, 1896, 73. 
E. Fischbr und H. Thibrfbldbr. Verhalten der verschiedenen Zucker gegen reine 

Hefen, Ben, 1894, 27, 2031-2037. 
P. F. Frankland and J. J. Fox. Fermentation of mannitol and glycerol. Proc. Roy. 

Soc, 1889, 46, 345-357. 
P. F. Frankland and W. Frbw. A pure fermentation of mannitol and dulcitol. 

J. Chem. Soc., 1892, 61, 254-277. 
P. F. Frankland and J. S. Lumsdbn. The decomposition of mannitol and dextrose by 

the Bacillus ethaceticus, J. Chem. Soc., 1892, 6z, 432-444. 
P. F. Frankland and J. MacGrboor. The fermentation of arabinose by Bcu:illus 

ethaceOcus. J. Chem. Soc., 1892, 6x, 737-745. 
P. F. Frankland, A. Stanlby and W. Frbw. Fermentations induced by the Pneumo- 

coccus of Friedlander, J. Chem. Soc, 1891, 59, 253-270. 
A. Hardbn. The chemical action on glucose of the lactose fermenting organisms of the 

faces. J. Hygiene, 1905, 5, 488-493. 
A. Hardbn. The chemical action of Bacillus coli communis and similar organisms on 

carbohydrates and allied compounds. J. Chem. Soc., 1901, 79, 610-628. 
A. Harden and G. S. Walpolb. Chemical action of bacillus lactis aerogenes on glucose 

and mannitol. Proc. Roy. Soc., 1906, 77 B, 399-405. 
T. A. Hbnry and S. J. M. Auld. On the probable existence of emulsin in yeast. Proc. 

Roy. Soc., 1905, 76 B, 568-580. 
A. VON Lbbbdbpf. Ueber Hexosephosphorsdureester. I. Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x0, 26, 

213-229. 
A. VON Lbbbdbpf. Ueber Hexosephosphorsaureester. II. Biochem. Zeitsch., X91X, 56, 

248-260. 
A. VON Lbbbdbpf. Sur le micanisme de la fermenftition alcoolique. Compt. rend., 19 11, 

IS3» 136-139. 
L. LiNDBT. Sur le pouvoir ilectif des celules vigetales vis-dr-vis du dextrose et du levuhse. 

Compt. rend., 1911, 152, 775-777. 
P. Lindnbr and K. Saito. Assimilability of different carbohydrates by different yeasts. 

Chem. Soc. Abstr., 1911, ii., 758. Woch. Braneri., 19x0, 27, 509. 
H. TBR Mbulbn. Recherches exphimentales sur la nature des sucres de quelques glucosides. 

Rec. trav. Chim., X905, 24, 444-483. 
H. PoTTBViN. Influence de la configuration stereochimique des glucosides sur Vactiviti 

des diastases hydrolyOques. Ann. Inst Pasteur, X903, 17, 3x. Compt. rend., 1903, 

136^ X69-X7X. 
T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvinb. The stereoisomeric tetramethyl methyl glucosides and tetra^ 

methylglucose, J. Chem. Soc., X904, 8s 1049-1070. 
E. Salkowski. VerheUten der Pentosen im Thierk&rper. Zeit physiol. Chem., X90X, 32, 

393-412. 
A. Slator. Chemical dynamics of alcoholic fermentation by yeast. J. Chem. Soc., 

1906, 89, X28-X42. 
A. Slator. The factors which influence the rate of alcoholic fermentation. Brit. Assoc. 

Report, Dublin, 1908, 674-675. ^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 56 CARBOHYDRATES 

A. Slator. Studies in fermentation. Part II. The mechanism of alcoholic fermentation, 

J, Chem. Soc., 1908, 93, 217-241. 
A. Slator. Ueber Dioxy-aceton als Zwischenstufe der alkohoUsche G&rung. Ber., 19x2, 

4S 43-46. 
G. Tamman. Die Reactionen der ungeformten Fetmente. Zeit physiol. Chem., 1892, x6^ 

271-328. 
G. Tamman. Zur Wirkung ungeformter Permente. Zeit. physikal Chem., 1895, a8» 426. 
G, Tamman. Ueber die Wirkung der Permente, Zeit physikal Chem., 1889, 3, 25-37. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO HYDROLYSIS OF DISACCHARIDES. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Engyme action, 11. The rate of the change conditioned by 

sucroclastic enzymes and its bearing on the law of mass action. Proc. Roy. Soc., 

1904* 73» 500-516. 
£• Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme action, V. Hydrolysis of isomeric glucosides and 

galactosides by acids and enzymes, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1904, 74, 188-194. 
£. Frankland Armstrong and R. J. Caldwell. Enzyme action, IV. and VI. The 

sucroclastic action of acids as contrasted with that of enzymes, Proc. Roy. Soc, 

1904, 73» 526-537; 74t 195-201. 
H. £. Armstrong and W. H. Glover. Enzyme action, XI. Hydrolysis ofraffinose by 

acids and enzymes, Proc. Roy. Soc, 1908, 80 B, 312-321. 
S. Arrhenius. Die Reaktionsgeschwindigkeit bei der Inversion von Rohrzucker durch 

Sduren, Zdt. physikal Chem., 1889, 4, 226-248. 
A. J. Brown. Enzyme action, [Velocity of inversion of cane sugar by invertase,^ 

J. Chem. Soc, 1902, 81, 373-388. 
H. T. Brown and S. Pickering. Thermochemistry of carbohydrate hydrolysis, J. Chem. 

Soc, 1897, 71, 783-795. 
R. J. Caldwell. Hydrolysis of cane sugar by d- and l-camphor-fi'SulphonU acid, Proc. 

Roy. Soc, 1904, 74, 184-187. 
R. J. Caldwell. The hydrolysis of sugars, [Contains a complete bibliography,] Brit. 

Assoc Report, York, 1906, 267-292. 
V. Henri. Influence du sucre inverti sur la vitesse dHnversion par la sucrase, Compt. 

rend. Soc Biol., 1901, 53, 288. 
C. S. Hudson. Inversion of Sucrose by Invertase, J. Amer. Chem. Soc, X908, 30, 1160- 

1166, 1564-1583 ; 1909, 31, 655-664; 1910, 32, 774-779» 885-889, 985-989, 1220-1222, 

1350-1357. 
£. Meissl. Maltose, J. prakt. Chem., 1882, 25, 114- 130. 
J. Meyer. Zur Theorie der Rohrzuckerinversion, Zeitsch. physik. Chem., 1908, 62^ 

59-88. 
W. OsTWALD. Das elektrische Leitungsv^mSgen der Sauren, J. prakt. Chem., 1884, 30, 

93-95- 
V^. OsTWALD. Die Inversion des Rohrzuckers, II. J. prakt. Chem., 1885, 31, 307-317. 
A. VON SiGMUND. Die Geschwindigkeit der Maltose-Hydrolyse, Zeit. physikal Chem., 

1898, 27, 385-400. 
A. E. Taylor. Inversion of cane sugar and maltose by ferments, J. Biol. Chem., 1909, 

S 405-407. 
L. WiLHELMY. Ueber das Gesetz^ nach welchem die Einwirkung der Sduren auf den Rohr- 
zucker stattfindet : V., 1850. Pogg. Ann. Chem., 8x, 413, 499. Reprint Ostwald's 

Klassiker, No. 29. 
A. WoHL. Zur Kenntniss der Kohlenhydrate, I. Ber., 1890, 23, 2084-2x10. 



157 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO SYNTHESIS OF MONOSACCHARIDES. 

A. Babysr. U$bfr dU WassermtgUhung tmd ihr$ BtdeHtung fkt das PfianMinUhem und 

die Gdkrung. Ber., 1870, 3, 63-78. 

B. Baur. Em ModeU der KoM€ttsduriassi$idlaiUm, Zai. physikal Chem., zi^oS, 63, 

683-7x0. 
T. BoKORNV. Bmahfung van gtinen PJtanzen ndi Parmaldehyd und formalde^daBspeU- 

Unden Substansen, Biochetn. Zeitsch., zgzt, 36^ ^3-97* 
H. T. Brown and G. H. Morris. On the girminaiian of same of the gtammea, 

J. Chem. SiQC., Z890, 57, 45^531- 
H. T. Brown and G. H. Morris. A contribution to the chemistry and physiology of 

foliage leaves, J. Chem. Soc, Z893, 63, 604-683. 
A. BuTLBROW. Bildung einer Muckerartigen Substanz durch Synthese, Annalen, z86z, 

190, 295-298- 
A. BuTLBROW. Formation synthitique d^une substance sucrh, Compt rend., z86i, 53, 

I45-3C47- 
A. V. Campbbll. The carbohydrates of the mangold leaf, J. Agric. ScL, 1912^ 4^ 

248-259. 
H. EuLBR UND A. EuLBR. Zur Kenntniss der Zucherbildung aus Formaldehyd. Ber., 

1906, 39i 39-45. 
H. EuLBR UND A. EuLBR. UebcT die Bildung von i-Arabinohetose aus Pormaldekyd. 

Ber., Z906, 39, 45-5Z. 

A. J. EwART. On the supposed extracellular photosynthesis of carbon dioxide by ehloro' 

phyll, Proc. Roy. Soc., Z908, 80 B, 30-36. 
H. J. H. Fbnton. a new synthesis in the sugar group. J. Chem. Soc, Z897, 71, 

375-383. 
H. J. H. Fbnton and H. Jackson. Crystalline glycollic aldehyde, J. Chem. Soc., Z899, 

7S 575-579. 
H. J. H. Fbnton. Degradation of glycollic aldehyde, J. Chem. Soc., Z900, 77, 1294- 

X298. 
H. J. H. Fbnton. The reduction of carbon dioxide to formaldehyde in aqueous sohUum, 

J. Chem. Soc., Z907, 91, 687*694. 
£. Piscrbr. Synihesen in der Zuchergrufpe, I., II., TTl, Ber., 1890, J3, 2XZ4.2Z4Z; 

1894, 27, 3Z89-3232. Textbook, Berhn, 1909. 

B. FiscHBR. Synthese der Mannau und Lavulose. Bet,, Z890, 2Q, 370-394. 
E. FiscHBR. Synthese des Traubenzuchers, Bet., 1890, 2^ 799-805. 

E. FiscHBR UND F. Passmorb. Bildung von Acrose aus Formaldehyde. Ber., Z889, 22, 

359-36Z. 
E. FiscHBR UND J. Tafbl. SyutheHsche Versuche in der Zuchergruppe^ I.- III. Ber 

Z887, 20, 2566-2575 ; 3384-3390 ; 1889, 22, 97-zoz. 
V. Grafb. Untersuchungen uber das Verhalten gruner Pftansen gu gasfdrmigem For- 

mdldehyd, Ber., Deut Bot Ges., 191 z, 29, Z9-26. 
R. J. Harvby Gibson. A photoelectric theory of photosynthesis. Ann. of Botany, Z908, 

22, ZZ7.Z20. 
H. Jackson. Condensation of formaldehyde and the formation of fi-acrose. Proc. Camb. 

Phil. Soc., X90Z, zz, ZZ7. 
O. LoBW. Formaldehyd und dessen Condensation. J. prakt. Chem., z886, [ii], 33, 32Z-35Z. 
O. LoBW. Bildung von Zucherarten aus Formaldehyd. Bet., Z889, 22, 470-478. 
E. Mambli bt G. Pollaci. Intomo a recenti ricerche suUa fotosintesi clorcfilliana. 

Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, 1908, V., z7, i., 739-744. 

«5« 



Digitized by 



Google 



BIBLIOGRAPHY I59 

R. Mbldola. PresidenHal address : prohUms of photosynthesis by growing plants, 

J. Chem. Soc., 1906, 89, 745-770. 
C. Nbubbrg. Depolymmsatum du Zuckerarten. Biochem. Zdt, 1908, Z2, 337-34Z* 
J. Parkin. Carbohydrates of the snowdrop leaf and their bearing on the first sugar of 

photosynthesis, Biochem. J., 19x1, 0, x-47. 
J. Sachs. Binfluss des Liehtes aufdie BUdung dss Amylums in den Chlorophyllkornem, 

Bot. Zeit, 1863, ao, 365-373* 
S. B. ScHRYVBR. The fhotochendcat formation *of formaldehyde in green plants, Proc. 

Roy. Soc^ X9iOk la B, 226-232. 
S. Strakosch. Bin Beitrag *ur Kenntnis des Kohlenhydratstoffwechsels von Beta 

vulgeuris (Zucherritbe), Sitz. ber. K. Akad. Wias. Wien^ 1907, zi6, 855. 
P. L. UsHBR AMD J. H. Pribstlbt. A sfudy of the w%echemism ofcarbms aesimilation in 

green plants, Proc. Roy. Soc, 1906, 77 B, 369-376* 
P. L. UsBBR ABiD J. H. Prisstlby. Mechonhm of Carbon Astimilatien, III. Pfoc. R(^. 

SOC., Z9II, 84 B, Z0I-IZ2. 

F. L. UsHBR AND J. H. Prustlby. The phot&lftic decomposition of carbon dhxide in 
vitro, Proc. Roy. Soc, 1906, 78 B, 318-327. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO SYNTHESIS OP DISACCHARIDES. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme <utum* VII. The synthetic action of adds con- 

treated with that of enzymes* Synthesis of maltose and isomaltose. Proc. Roy. 

Soc, 1905, 76 B, 592-599. 
O. EmmbrLtINO. Synthetische Wirkung der Hefemaltau. Ber., igox, 34, 600-605, 2206- 

2207, 3810-38x1. 
£. Fischer. Synthese einer neuen Glucobiose, Ber., 1890, 93, 3687-3691 ; 1895, 38, 3024- 

3028. 
E. Fischer und E. F. Armstrong. Synthese einiger neuer Disaccharide, Ber., 1902, 35, 

3144-3153. 
E. Fischer und K. Delbruck. Synthese neuer DisoMharide von Typns der Trehalose. 

Ber., 1909, 42, 2776-2785. 
T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. The probable existence of emulsin in yeast. Proc. 

Roy. Soc., Z905, 76 B, 568-580. 
R. O. Hbrzog. On the action of emulsin. Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1903, 

6, 332-339. 
A. Croft Hill. Reversible zymohydrolysis. J. Chem. Soc., 1898, 73, 634-658. 
A. Croft Hill. Taka-diastase and reversed femunt action. Proc Chem. Soc, 1901, 

17. 184. 
A. Croft Hill. Synthetic action on dextrose with pancreatic ferment. Journ. of 

Physiol, 1902, 28, Proc xxvi. 
A. Croft Hill. The reversibility of enzyme or ferment action. J. Chem. Soc, 1903, 

83» 578-598. 
A. Croft Hill. Bemerkung zu O. Emmerling. Synthetische Wirkung der Hefenmaltase. 

Ber., 1901, 34, 1380. 
J. H. Van't Hoff. Synthetische Permentwirkung /., //. Sitz. Ber. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 

Z909, 1065-1076; 19x0, 963-970. 
J. Peklo. Vorkommen von Stdrke in der Zuckerrubenwurzel. Bied. Zentr., 19 11, 40, 

386-387. 
H. Pottevin. Actions diastasiques reversibles. Formation et dSdoubUment des ethers-sels 

sous Vinfluence des diastases du pancreas. Ann. Inst. Pasteur, 1906, ao, 901-923. 
R« A. Robertson, J. C. Irvine and M. E. Dobson. A polarimetric study of the sucroclcuHe 

enzymes in Beta Vulgaris. Biochem. J., Z909, 4, 258-273. 
L. Rosenthaler. Durch enzyme bewirkte asymmetrische Synthesen^ I., II. Biochem. 

Zeitsch., 1908, 14, 238-253 ; 1909, 17, 257-269. 
A. W. VissBR. Reaktionsgeschwindigkeit und chemisches Gleichgewicht in homogenen 

Systemen und der en Anwendung auf Enzymwirkungen. Zeit physikal Chem., 

1905. Sa. 257-309. 
A. WoHL. Zur Kenntniss der Kohlenhydrate. Ber., 1890, ^, 2084-2110. 



160 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO GLUCOSIDES. 

Lf. BOUROIBR, La pr hence de ** raucuhine " dans Us diffetenies esfeces du genre Plantago, 

J. Pharm. Chim., 1907, [vt], a6^ 254-266. 
Em. Bourqublot. Recherche dans les vefetaux du sucre d$ canne d Faide de VinvtrHne 

et des glucosides d Vedde de Vemulstne, J. Pharm. Chim., xgox, 14, 482. 
Em. Bourqublot. Sur Pemploi des enzymes comme rSacH/s dans les recherches de 

lahoraicire* [Contains a bibliography.] J. Pharm. Chim., 2906, 34, 165 ; 1907, 55, 

16 et 378. 
Em. Bourqublot bt A. Fxchtbnholz. ArhuHne et methylarhuHne, CaraeUreSydistmcHon 

et recherche dans les vegStaux. J. Pharm. Chim., 1910, [vii], x, 62-66, 104-X09. 
Em. Bourqublot et A. Fichtbnholz. Legltuoaide desfeuilUs de pairier. Compt* rend., 

1910, 152, 81-84 ; 1911, x53» 468-472. 
Em. Bourqublot bt A. Fichtbnholz. Leglucodde des femlUs de poirier; son rdle dans 

la production des teintes automnales de ces organes. J. Pharm. Chim., 2922, [vii], 3, 

5-13- 
Em. Bourqublot bt A. Fichtbnholz. Sur la presence de Varhutine dans les feuilles du 

Grevillea Robusta, Compt. rend., 2912, 154, 2x06-2208. 
Em. Bourqublot bt H. Hi&rissby. Action de Vemulsine de V Aspergillus niger sur 

quelques glucosides. Bull. Soc. Mycol., 2896, xx, 299. 
Em. Bourqublot bt H. H^rissby. Sur Vaucuhine^ glucoside de VAucuba japonUa, 

Ann. Chim. Phys., 2905, [viii], 4, 289-328. 
Em. Bourqublot bt H. Hbrissby. L*arbutine et quelques-uns de ses derives^ considSrSs 

au point de vue de leur pouvoir rotatoire et leur dSdoublement par Vemulsine, 

Compt. rend., 2908, 146, 764-766. 
Em. Bourqublot et J. Vintilbsco. L^oleuropiine^ nouveau principe de nature gluco- 

sidique retirh de V Olivier {Olea europaa L.). Compt. rend., 2908, X47, 533 535. 
M. Bridel. La Meliatine^ nouveau glucoside, hydrolysable par Vemulsine, retiri du 

Trefie d*eau. Compt. rend., 2922, 152, 2694-2696. 
E. Fischer. Ueber einige Derivate des Helicins, Ber., 2902, 34, 629-632. 
E. Fischer und W. von Loeben. Ueber die Verbrennungswarme einiger Glucoside, 

Sitzungsber. K. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, 2902, 323-326. 
J. Gadambr. Les glucosides des moutardes noire et blanche, J. Pharm., 2896, 4, 462. 
H. Hbrissby. Preparation de VArbutine vraie, Compt. rend., 29x0, X5Z, 444-447; J. 

Pharm. Chim., 2920, [vii], 2, 248-253. 
H. H]£rissey bt C. Lebas. Presence de Vaucubine dans plusieurs especes du genre 

Garrya, J. Pharm. Chim., 2920, 3, 490-494. 
H. Hlasiwetz und J. Habermann. Das Arbutin, Ann. Chem. pharm., 2875, 177, 

334-343. 
H. A. D. Jowett and C. E. Potter. Variations in the occurrence 0/ seUicin and salinigrin 

• in different willow and poplar barks, Pharm. J., 2902, August 26. 
A. Kawalier. Untersuchung der Blatter von Arctostaphylos uva ursi, Ann. Chem. 

Pharm., 2852, 84* 356-360. 
H. KiLiANi. Digitoxose, Ber., 2905, 38, 4040-4043. 
C. Lepbbvre. Anwendung der biochenUschen Methode turn Ncu:hweis der Zuckerarten 

und der Glykoside in den Pflanzen der Familie der Taxinen, Arch. Pharm., 1907, 

24s 493-502. J. Pharm. Chim., X907, a6^ 241-254. 
C. LiBBERMANN UND O. HoRMANN. Die Farbstoffe und den Glycosidzucker der Gelb- 

beeren, Annalen, X879, i^ 299-338. 
£. O. LiPPMANN. Der Zucker des Populins, Ber., X879, X2, X648-X649. 

262 II 



Digitized by 



Google 



i62 CARBOHYDRATES 

H. TKB Mevlsx. Smr qmdfmes glvcauda raminumf ds$ semivoU. Rec. frav. ChiiiL^ 

1900. Ift 37-45- 
R. PdtiA. Uniertuchmmgem uber das Salicm. Ann. Cbcm. Phann^ 1845, 56^ 35-77. 
R. PniA. Das Pafulin. Ann. Chan. Pbann., 1852, 81, 245-247 ; 1855, 96^ 375-383. 
E. H. Remwix. On PU^ridsin, J. Chan. Soc, 1887, 51, G34-637. 
H. ScHiFF. C{msiiiuiiam d£s ArbuUns, Ann. Cbon. Phann., 1880, ao6^ 159-167. 
H. ScHiFF UMD G. Pbllizzasi. Metkjlarhtt^n^ BgmM^larbuUu tmd BmsjUHaxybtmsaU. 

Annalai, 1883, 221, 365-379. 
E. Schmidt. Zur Kemntniss der Rkammoside. x. Rutim, 2. Sofhonn. 3. Capptrm- 

Rutin. 4. Robimn. Arch. Phaim., 1904, 242^ 210-224. 

E. SCHVLZB UMD G. TxiXK. IdentiUU des Vermns nnd des Gnanasins nebst Budgem 

Bemerkungen uber Vicin nnd Convidn, Zeitscfa. phjrsioL Chem., 1911, 70^ 143-151. 
SCHUHCE. On mbin and Us frodnets of decomfodtUm. Phil. Tram. Roy. Soc, 1851, 433. 
ScHUMCK. Bfythrosyms. PhiL Trans., 1853, 74. 
SPATZisa. Ueber das AuftttUn nnd die pkysiologiseke Bedtuhing des Myrasms in der 

Pfianse. Pringihetm's Jahrh., 1893, ^ 39. 
A. Stsbckex. Das ArbuUn nnd seine Verwundlnngen. Ann. Chem. Pharm., 1858, I07» 

228-234. 
Cb. bt G. Tamsbt. Sur la rhamninase et la xanfkarhamnine. BnlL Soc. Chim., 1899, 

31,1073. 

F. TiBMAiiM. VanilUnsdnre. Bcr., 1875, 8^ 509-515. 

F. TiBMAMN. Comfnylalkohol, das bei Binwirkung von Bmulsin auf Ccmiferin neben 

Traubensneker entstekende Spaliungs^odukte sowie Aethyl nnd Methyl vamlUn. 

Bcr., 1875, 8^ 1127-1136. 
F. TiBMAMN. Die der Coniferyl und Vanillin Reihe angekorigen Verbindnngen. Her., 

X876, 9, 409-423. 1278-1284. 
F. TiBMAMN. Glncovanillin und GlucovanillylalkohoL Ber., 1885, 18^ 1595-1600. 
P. TiBMAMM AMD W. Haakmamm. Dqs Coni/eHn und seine Umwandlung in das 

oromaHsche PrinHp der Vanille, Bcr., 1874, 7, 608-623. 
E. W1MTBB8TBIM UND H. Blau. Beitr&ge sur Kenntnis der Saponine, Zdtsch. physioL 

Chem., 1911, 75, 4x0-442. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO AMYGDALIN. 

S. J. M. AuLD. The hydrolysis of amygdalin by emulsin^ I., II. J. Chem. Soc., 1908, 

95, 1251-1281. 
R. J. Caldwell and S. L. Court auld. The hydrolysis of amy gdalin by acids, J. Chem. 

Soc., 1907, 91, 666-671. 
R. J. Caldwell and S. L. Court auld. MandelonitriU glycosides, Prulaurasin, 

J. Chem. Soc., 1907, 91, 671-677. 
H. D. Dakin. The fractional hydrolysis of amygdalinic acid. isoAmygdaUn, J. Chem. 

Soc., Z904, 8s i5Z2-x52a 
K. Feist. Die Sfaltung des Amygdalins unter dem Einfluss von Bmulsin, Arch. Pharm., 

1908, 246, 206-209. OpHsciakHve BenMoldehydcyanhydrine, Ibid, 1909, 247, 226- 

232. Zerseisung von Amy gdalin. Ibid., 1909, 247, 542-545* Spaltung racemischer 

Cyanhydrine durch Emulsin. Ibid., 19x0, 248, 10Z-Z04. 
£. Fischer. Einfluss der Configuration auf die Wirhung der Enzyme, Ber., 1894, 27, 

2985-2993. 

E. Fischer. Ueher ein neues^ dem Amygdalin dhnliches Glucosid, Ber., 1895, 28, 1508- 

1511. 
G. GiAjA. Sur Visolement d'un sucre biose derivant de Vamygdaline, Compt rend., 1910, 

ISO. 793-796. 
H. HiRissBY. Etude comparie de Vemulsine des amandes et Vemulsine d'Asfergillus niger. 

Bull. Soc. Biol., 1896, 640. 
Johansen. Sur la localisation de Vhnulsine dans les amandes, Ann. Sci. Nat. (Bot)i 

1887, 6, zz8. 
J. LiEBiG und F. Wohler. Die Bildung des Bittermandeldls, Annalen, 1837, 22, z-24. 
J. LiEBiQ UND F. Wohler. Sur la formation de Vhuile d'amandes amhres, Ann. Chim. 

phys., 1837, 64, 185-209. 
H. LuDwiG. EigenthUmliche PflanMcnsioffe. Jahresbericht, 1856, 679. 
RoBiQUET ET BouTRON. Lcs Amandcs ameres et Vhuile volatile qu^elles fournissent, 

Ann. Chim. phys., 1830, 44, 352-382. 
L. RosENTHALER. AmygdoUn, Arch. Pharm., 1908, 215, 684-685. Die Spaltung des 

Amygdalins unter dem Einfluss von Emulsin, Ibid., 1908, 246, 365-366, 7x0; X910, 

248, 105.112, 534-535. 
H. ScHiPF. Die Constitution des Amygdalins und dir Amygdalinsdure, Annalen, 1870, 

I54» 337-353. 
THOMi. Ueber das Vorkommen des Amygdalins und des Emulsins in den bittern Mandeln. 

Bot. Zeit., 1865, 240. 
Thomson and Richardson. Ueber die Zersetzung des Amygdalins durch Emulsin, Ann. 

de Pharm., 1839, 29, 180. 

F. TuTiN. isoAmy gdalin and the resolution of its hepta-acetyl derivative, J. Chem. Soc., 

i909» 95. 663.668. 
J. W. Walker. The catalytic racemisation of amygdalin, J. Chem. Soc., X903, 83, 

472-479. 
J. W. Walker and V. K. Krieble. The hydrolysis of amygdalin by acids, J. Chem. 

Soc., 1909, 95, X369-X377. 
J. W. Walker and V. K. Kribble. The amygdalins, J. Chem. Soc., 1909, 95, 1437- 

1449. 



X63 II' 

/Google 



Digitized by^ 



REFERENCES TO CYANOPHORIC GLUCOSIDES. 

G. Bertrand. La vicianine, nouviau glucosid$ cyankydriqut coutinu dans les graines de 

Vesce, Compt. rend., 1906, 143, 832-834. 
Q. Bertrand bt L. Rxokind. La reparUtUm de la vicianine $t de sa diastase dans Us 

gtaines de Ligumineuses, Compt rend., 1906, 143, 970. 
G. Bertrand und G. Weisweiller. La constituHon de la Vidatdne. Compt rend., 

1908, X47, 252.254* 
Em. Bourquelot bt Em. Danjou. Sur la sambunigrine, glucoside cyanhydrique 

nouveau retiri des feuilles du sureau noir, Compt rend., 1905, 141, 59-61; 

598-600. 
W. R. DuNSTAN AND T. A. Hbnry. Chemical aspects of cyanogenesis in plants, Brit 

Assoc. Report, York, 1906, 145-157. 
W. R. Dunstan and T. A. Henry. The nature and origin of the poison of Lotus 

Arahicus. Proc. Roy. Soc, 1900, 67, 224 ; 190X, 68, 374-378. Phil. Trans. Roy. 

Soc, 190X, Z94 B, 515-533. 
W. R. Dunstan and T. R. Hbnry. Cyanogenesis in plants. II. The greed millet. 

Sorghum vulgare, Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc, 1902, 199 A, 399-410. 
W. R. Dunstan and T. A. Henry. III. PhaseolunaHn, the eyanogenetic glucoside of 

phaseolus lunatus, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1903, 72, 285-294. 
W. R. Dunstan, T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. Cyanogenesis. IV. Occurrence of 

phaseolunaiin in common flax, V. Occurrence of phaseolunatin in cassava, Proc. 

Roy. Soc., 1906, 78 B, 145-158. 
W. R. Dunstan, T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. Cyanogenesis, VI. PheueolunaHn 

and the associated enzymes in flax ^ cassava and the lima bean, Proc. Roy. Soc., 

1907, 79 B, 3i5-32a- 
T. H. Eastbrfxbld and B. C. Aston. Corynocarpin, a glucoside occurring in the kernels of 

the Karaka fruit. Proc. Chem. Soc., 1903, 19, 191. 
M. Grbshoff. The distribution of prussic add in the vegetable kingdom. Report Brit 

Assoc., Z906, Z38.Z44. 
L. Guiqnard. Sur la loccUisaiion dans les plantes des principes qui foumissent Vadde 

cyanhydrique. Compt rend, 1890, ziOi 477. 
L. Guiqnard. Sur la localisation dans les amandes et le lauriercerise des prindpes qui 

foumissent Vacide cyanhydrique. Journal de Botanique, 1890, 4, 3. 
L. GuxoNARD. Stir Vexistence dans le sureau noir d*un composi foumissent de Vadde 

cyanhydrique, Compt. rend., 1905, 141, 16-20, 448-452. 
L. GuiGNARD. Sur la mitamorphose des glucosides cyanhydriques pendant la germinaHon, 

Compt. rend., 1908, 147, 1023-1038. 
L. GuioNARD bt J. Hondas. Sur la nature du glucoside cyanhydrique du sureau noir. 

Compt rend., 1905, 141, 236-238. 
L. Guiqnard. La formation et les variations quantitative du prindpe cyanhydrique du 

sureau noir, Compt rend., 1905, 141, zx93-z2oi« 
L. Guiqnard. Nouveaux exempies de Rosacees d acide cyanhydrique. Compt rend., 

1906. M3» 451-458. 
L. Guiqnard. La mStcunorphose des glucosides cyanhydriques pendant la germination. 

Compt rend., 1908, 147, Z023-Z038. 
H. Herissey. La Pmlaurasine, glucoside cyanhydrique cristallisS, retire des feuilles 

de Lauriercerise. Compt. rend., 1905, 141, 959-961. 
H. Herissey. Das Prulaurasin, das Blausdure liefemde Olycosid der Blatter von Pmnus 

laurocerasus. Arch. Pharm., 1907, 245, 463-468, 473-474. 
H. H^RXSSBY. V Existence de la *< Prulaurasin ** dans le Cotoneaster microphylla Wall, 

J. pharm. Chim., 1906, [vi], 24, 537-539- 

164 



/Google 



Digitized by^ 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 165 

H. H^RissBY UND Em. Bourquelot. Die Isomerie bei den Blausdure liefernden 
Glykosiden Sambunigrin und Prulaurasin. Arch. Pharm., 1907, 245, 474-480. 

H. Herissey. Das Vorkommen vm Amygdonitrilglykosid in Cerasus Padus Delarb, 
Arch. Pharm., 1907, 245, 641-644. 

A. W. K. DB Jong. La decomposition de la gynocardine par Venzyme des feuiUes de 
pangium edule. Rec. trav. Chim., 1911, 50, 220-221. 

A. JoRissEN. Recherches sur la formation de Vacide cyanhydrique. Bull. Acad. Roy. 
Belg., 1910, 224-233. 

JoRissBN ET Hairs. La linamarine, nouveau glucoside fournissent de Vacide cyan- 
hydrique par dedoublement. Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg., 1891, 2X| 529. 

C. W. Moore and F. Tutin. Note on Gynocardin and gynocardase. Trans. Chem. Soc., 
1910, 97, 1285-1289. 

F. B. Power and F. H. Lees. Gynocardin, a new cyanogenetic glucoside, J. Chem. 
Soc, 1905, 87, 349-357- 

F. B. Power and C. W. Moore. The constituents of the bark of Prunus serotina. Isola- 
tion of l-mandelonitrile glucoside. J. Chem. Soc, 1909, 95, 243-261. 

C. Ravenna b M. Tonegutti. Alcune osservazioni sulla presenza delV acido cianidrico 
libero nelle piante, Atti. R. Accad. Lincei., 1909, [v], 19, ii., 19-25. 

C. Ravenna e M. Zamorani. Sulla formazione delV acido cianidrico nella germinazione 
dei sensi. Ibid., 356-361. 

Treub. Sur la localisation, le transport et le rdle de Vacide cyanhydrique dans le Pangium 
edule. Ann. du Jardin. bot. de Buitenzorg, 1895, 13, i. 



REFERENCES TO INDICAN. 

C. Bergthbil. The fermentation of the indigo-plant. J. Chem. Soc, 1904, 85, 870-892. 
W. Bbyerinck. On the formation of indigo from the wood {Isatis tinctoria). Proc. K. 

Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 2, 120-129. 
W. Bbyerinck. Further researches on the formation of indigo from the wood {Isatis 

tinctoria). Proc K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 3, 101-116. 
J. J. Hazbwinkel. Indican — its hydrolysis and the enzyme causing the same. Proc. K. 

Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 2, 512-520. 
S. Hoogewerff et H. ter Meulbn. Indican. Proc K. Akad. Wetensch., Amster- 
dam, 1900, 2, 520. 
S. Hoogewerff et H. tbr Meulbn. Contribution a la connaissance de Vindican. Rec. 

trav. Chim., 1900, 19, 166-172. 
H. ter Meulbn. Recherches experimentales sur la nature de quelques glucosides 

[Indican]. Rec. trav. Chim., 1905, 24, 444. 
A. G. Perkin and W. P. Bloxam. Indican. Part I. J. Chem. Soc, 1907, 91, 

1715-1728. 
A. G. Perkin and F. Thomas. Indican, II. J. Chem. Soc, 19091 9S* 793-807. 
P. VAN Romburq. On the formation of indigo from indigoferas and from Marsdenia 

tinctoria. Proc K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 2, 344-348. 
F. Thomas, W. P. Bloxam and A. G. Perkin. Indican, III. J. Chem. Soc, 1909, 95, 

824-847. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO GLUCOSIDE SYNTHESIS. 

G. CiAM xciAN BT C. Ravbnna. SIhUH dglla salicina per mezzo delU pianU. Atti. R» 

Aocad. Lincei, 1909, [v], 18, i., 419-422. 
G. CiAMicxAN ET C. Ravbnna. Sulla formozioHS <Ui glucosidi per mezzo delU pianU, 

Atti. R. Accad. Lined, 1909, [v], z8, ii., 594-596. 
G. L. CiAMxciAN BT C. Ravbnna. Sul conUgno delV aleool benzilicolftslle pianie, Atti» 

R. Accad. Lined, 191 z, [v], ao, i., 393-394. 
A. CoLLBY. AcHoH des Haloides libres et de quslques Chloruris sur la Glucose. Ann. 

Chim. phys., 1870, [iv], 31, 363-377» 
R. Drouin. RiacHons et la compoHHon de ihymolglucoside et de Pa-naphtholgluconde^ 

Bull. Soc. Chim., 1895, [iii], 13, 5. 
E. FiscHBR UND E. F. Armstrong. Synthese der Glucoside, L, IL, IIL Ber., 1901, 34, 

2885-2900; 1902, 35. 833-843 ; 3153-3155. 
E. FxscHBR UND K. DblbrOck. Thiophenolglucoside, Ber., 1909, 42, 1476-1482. 
E. Fischer und H. Fischbr. Zwei neue Glucoside. Ber., 1910, 43, 2521-2536. 
E. Fischbr und B. Hblfbrich. Neue synthetische Glucoside, Annalen, 191 1, 383, 68-91. 

E. Fischbr und K. Rasxb. Synthese einiger Glucoside, Ber., 1909, 42, 1465-1476. 
H. HiLDBBRANDT. Bomeolglucosid. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1909, 2Z, i. 

J. C. Irvxnb AND R. E. RosB. Constitution ofsaUcin, Synthesis 0/ pentamethyl salicin„ 
J. Chem. Soc, 1906, 89, 8x4-822. 

F. Mauthner. Die Synthese der Glucosyringtudure, J. prakt. Chem., 1910, 83, 271-274. 
F. Mauthnbr. Synthese der Glucovanillinsaure und der Gluco-p-oxybenzoesdure, J. 

prakt. Chem., 1910, [ii], 83, 271 ; Z91X, 83, 556-560. 
A. Michabl. Synthesis of helicin and phenolglucoside, Amer. Chem. J., 1879, i, 

305-312. 
A. Michabl. Synthetical researches in the glucoside group, IL Amer. Chem. J., 1883, 5^ 

17Z-Z82. 
A. Michabl. Synthetical researches in the glucoside group, IIL Amer. Chem. J., 1884,^ 

6, 336-340. 
A. Michael. Die Synthese des Methylarbutins. Ber., z88z, 14, 2097-2x02. 
H. Ryan. Synthetical preparaHon of glucosides. J. Chem. Soc., X899, 75, X054-Z057. 
H. Ryan and W. S. Mills. Preparation of synthetical glucosides. J. Chem. Soc., X90X, 

79, 704-707. 
H. Ryan and G. Ebrill. Synthesis of glucosides. Some derivatives of ar€Utinose. 

Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., 1903, 24, 379-386. 
H. Ryan and G. Ebrill. Synthesis <f glucosides. Some derivatives of xylose, Sd. 

Proc. Roy. Dubl. Soc., 1908, zz, 247-252. 
H. Ryan and W. S. Mills. Preparation of synthetical glucosides, J, Chem. Soc, igoi, 

79, 704-707. 
P. Schutzbnbbrobr. Synthese von Glucosiden mittelst der Acetylderivate der Zucher- 

arten, Annalen der Pharmacie, 1871, z6o> 95-zoo. 



z66 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFERENCES TO THE FUNCTION OF CARBOHYDRATES AND 
GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS. 

H. E. AND E. p. Armstrong. Functum of hormones in stimulating enzymie change in 

relation to narcosis and the phenomena of degenerative and regenerative change in 

living structures. Proc Roy. Soc., zgio, 82 B, 588-602. 
H. £. AND E. F. Armstrong. Thefunction of hormones in regulating metabolism. Studies 

on enzyme action^ xiv., Ann. Bot, zgzZt 98, 507-5Z9. 
H. E. AND £. F. Armstrong. The differential septa in plants with reference to the 

translocation of nutritive materials, Proc. Roy. Soc., zgzz, 84 B, 226-229. 
H. E. Armstrong, E. F. Armstrong and E. Horton. Herbage studies, I. Lotus 

Corniculatus, a cyanophoric plant. Proc Roy. Soc., Z9Z2, 84 B, 47Z-484. 
M. Bridbl. Variations dans la composition de la racine de Gentiane au cours de la 

vegetation d'une annee, J. pharm. Chim., zgzi, [vii], 3, 294-305. 
R. Chodat. Nouvelles recherehes sur les ferments oxydant, IV. et V. Arch. Sci. phys. 

nat., Z9Z2, 33, 70^5, 225-248. 
R. CooMBES. Du rtle de Voxyghte dans la formation et la destruction des pigments 

rouges anthocyaniques chez les vigHaux, Compt. rend., 19ZO, 150, Z186-1189. 
G. CiAMicxAN ET C. Ravbnna. Sul contegno di alcune sootanze organiche nei vegetali, 

Gazetta, Z908, 58* i., 682-697. Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, Z909, 18, i., 4Z9-422. 
W. R. DuNSTAN AND T. A. Hbnry. The nature and origin of the poison of Lotus Arabicus, 

Proc Roy. Soc, 1900, 67, 224 ; igoz, 68, 374-378. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc, zgoz. 

194 B, 515-533- 
L. Guignard. Sur la localisation des prindpes actifs des crucifires, Compt. rend., Z890, 

III, 249 ; 920. 
L. Guignard. Sur quelques proprietes chimiques de la myrosine. Bull. Soc Bot., Z894, 

I, 418. 
L. Guignard. Influence de Vanathesie et du gel sur le dedoublement de certains glucosides 

chez les plantes. Compt. rend., 1909, 149, 9Z-93. 
Jadin. Localisation de la myrosine et de la gomme chez Us moringa. Compt. rend., Z900, 

130. 733. 
H. A. D. JowBTT AND C. E. PoTTBR. Variations in the occurrence of salicin and salinigrin 

in different willow and poplar barks, Pharm. J., zgo2, August z6. 
F. Keeble and E. F. Armstrong. The distribution of oxydases in plants and their rdle 

in the formation of pigments, Proc. Roy. Soc, Z9Z2, 85 B, 2Z4-2Z8. 
C. Lbfbbvre. Anwendung der biochemischen Methode zum Nachweis der Zuckerarten 

und der Glykoside in den Pflanzen der Familie der Taxinen. Arch. Pharm., 1907, 

245, 493-502. J. pharm. Chim., Z907, a6, 24Z-254. 
H. tbr Mbulbn. Sur quelques glucosides contenant des senhfols. Rec trav. Chim., 

1900, 19, 37-45- 
M. MiRANDB. Influence exercSePar certaines vaheurs sur la cyanogenkse vigiiale, Procidi 

rapide pour la recherche des plantes d acide cyanhydrique, Compt. rend., Z909, 149, 

Z40-142. 
£. Overton. Auftrelen von rothem Zellsaft bei Pflanzen, Prings. Jahr. t wiss., Bot^ 

Z899, vol. 33. 
W. Palladin. Bildung der verschiedenen Atmungsenzyme in Abhdngigkeit Hon dem. 

EntwicklungS'Stadium der Pflanzen. Ber. bot Ges., 1906, 2^ 97-Z07. Die Arbeit der 

Atmungsenzyme der Pflanzen unter Verschiedenen Verhdltntssen, Zeitsch. physiol. 

Chem., Z906, 47, 406-45Z. 
W. Palladin. Die Verbreitung der Atmungschromogene bei den Pflanzen. Ber. Bot Ges., 

1908, a6A, 378-389. 

167 



Digitized by 



Google 



i68 CARBOHYDRATES 

W. Palladin. Ueber die Wirkung von Giften auf die Atmung Uhender und ahgetoteter 

Pflanzen sowie auf Atmungsenzyme, Jahrbiicher Wiss. Botanik, 191 o, 47, 431-461. 
W. SiGMUND. Ueber salicinspaltende und arhutinspaltende Enzyme, Monatsh., 1909, 

30, 77-87. 
W. SiGMUND. Ueber ein dskulinspaltendes Bnzym und ueber ein fettspaltendes Ensym in 

Aesculus HippocastanuMj L, Monatsh., 19x0, 31, 657-670. 
A. £. Vinson. The endo- and ecto-invertase of the date, J. Amer. Chem. Soc, 1908, 

30, 1005-1020 ; 1910, 32, 2o8. 
O. Walthbr. Zur Frage der Indigo Bildung, Ber. Deut. hot. Ges., 1909, 27, 106-110. 
Marshall Ward and Dunlop. On some points in the histology and physiology of the 

fruits and seeds in Rhamnus, Ann. ot Botany, 1887, i, i. ^ 

Th. Weevers. Die physiologische Bedeutung einiger Glykoside. Proc. K. Akad. 

Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1909, za, 193-201. 
M. Wheldale. Plant oxydases and the chemical,jBttf -relationships of colour-varieties. 

Prog. Rei. Bot., 1910, 3, 457-474- 
M. Wheldale. On the formation of anthocyanin, J. of Genetics, 191 1, z, 133-158. 
M. Wheldale. The chemical differentiation of species, Biochem. J., 1911, 5, 445-456. 



REFERENCES TO RIPENING OF FRUITS. 

E. M. Bailey. Studies on the Banana. J. Biol. Chem., 1906, i, 355-361. 

C. Gerber. Recherches sur la maturation des fruits chamus, Ann. Sc. Nat Bot., 1896, 

[viii], 4, 1-279. 
H. C. Prinsen Gberligs. Rapid changes in some tropical fruits during their ripening, 

Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1908, 11, 74-84. 
W. Kelhofer. Distribution of sugar ^ acid and tannin in apples. Chem. Soc. Abstr.» 

1909, ii., 1047. 

F. £. Lloyd. Ueber den Zusammenhang zwischen Gerbstoff und einem anderen Kolloid 

in reifenden FrUchten, insbesondere von Phdnix^ Achras und Diospyros. Zeitsch. 

Chem. Ind. Colloide, 1911, 9, 65-73. 
jR. Otto und W. D. Kooper. Beitrdge zur Kenntnis des ** Nachreifens '* von Fruchten, 

Zeitsch. Nahr. Genussm., 1910, ZQ, 10. 
F. ScuRTi AND Q. De Plato. The chemical processes of ripening. The ripening of 

oranges. Chem. Soc. Abstr., 1909, ii., 174, from Staz. sperim. agrar. ital., 1908, 41, 

435-455. 
Cr. Tallarico. The hydrolytic and catalytic ferments acting during the process of ripen' 

ing of fruit. Chem. Soc. Abstr., 1908, ii.^ 724. 
JC. YosHiMURA. Beitrdge zur Kenntnis der Banane. Zeitsch. Nahr. Genussm., 1911, 21, 

406-411. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX. 



ACBTOCHLOROOLUGOSB, II« IS, 21, 77, 133. 

Acetonecyanohydrin-«-glacoside, zax, Z38. 
Acetonitro-glucose, zi. 
Acids-^relative invcrtive power of, 85. 
Acrose, 89. 
Adonitol, 57. 
Aesculin, zzz. 

Alcohols-Hable of carbohydrate, 58. 
Aldohexoees, 24-27. 

— rotatory power, 27. 

— stereoisomerism o^ 24. 

— table of, 25. 
Allose, 25. 
Aloinose, 52. 
Altrose, 25. 

Aminomethyl gluooside, 43. 
Amygdalase, zz7. 
Amygdalin, iz6-z2o. 
Amygdonitrile glucoside v, Prunasin. 
Anaesthetics — action of, on plant growth, 

Z26. 

Anhydroglucose, Z2. 
Anhydromethyl glucoside, Z2. 
Anthocyanin pigmoits, 130. 
Antipodes— behaviour towards organisms, 

72. 
Apiin, 56, XZ2. 
Apiose, 56. 
Arabino-ketose, gz. 
Arabinose, 52, 54, ZZ5. 
Arabinose diphenyl hydracone, 30. 
Arabitol, 82. 
Arbutin, Z09. 
Aucubin, zo6. 

Barbaloin, Z15. 

Benzaldehyde cyandtiydnn, zo2, zz6. 
Bromomsthyl furfuraldehyde from frsctose, 
49. 

Canb sugar. See Sucroae. 
Cellobiose, 65. 
Cellose. See Cellobiose. 
Cerebrose, 48. 
Cerebrosides, 48. 
Chinovose, 56. 
Chitin, 42. 
Chitose, 43. 
Glavicepsin, 57. 
Coniferin, zzz. 
Convolvulin, 56. 
Coumarin glucosides, xzx. 
Cyanohydrin syntheus, 37, 38. 
Cyanophoric glucoaido, zaz. 



Dbqradation of glucose, 38, 39. 

Dhurrin, Z2x. 

Dibromotriacetyl giucosei Z2. 

Digitalin, ZZ4. 

Digitalis glucosides, ZZ4. 

Digitalose, 56, ZZ4. 

Digitonin, ZZ4. 

Digitoxin, ZZ4. 

Digitoxose, 56, ZZ4. 

Dioxyacetone, 76. 

Diphenylmethane dimethyl-dihjrdrasine, 30. 

Disaccharides, 59. 

Disaccharides, synthesis of, 97-Z03. 

Dulcitol, 33, 57, 8a. 

Emulsin, 65, 67, 77, zoo, zz8. 
Enolic form : — 

of galactose, 75. 

of glucose, 40, 73, 74. 
Enzymes :«- 

attachment of, to carbohydrate, 79, 80. 

balance and carbohydrates, Z30-Z3Z. 

gluoosidoclastic, zo8. 

nomenclature, 77. 

synthetic action, 65, 99-ZO3. 
Erythritol, 57, 82. 
Euxanthlc acid, 36. 

Pbrmbntation, 73. 

— intermediate products of, 76. 
Formaldehyde, 93. 

— photosynthesis, 92-93. 
Formose, 89, 9Z. 
Fraxin, ziz. 
Fructosazine, 43. 
Fructose, 26, 40, 48, 49, Z05. 

— methyl phenylosazone, 49. 

— mono- and di-acetones, 50. 

— synthesis, gz. 
Pucose, 66. 
Fustin, ZZ2. 

Galagtoarabinosb, 67. 
Galactose, 47, 53, Z05. 

— conversion into glucose, 8z. 

— fermentation, 75. 

— methyl-phenyl hydrazones, 30. 

— synthesis, gz. 
Galactosido-glucose, g7. 
Gaultherin, zzz. 
Gentianose, 70. 
Gentiobiose, 65. 
Gentio^icrin, Z28. 
Gluconic acid, 34, 75, 82. 



x6g 



Digitized by 



Google 



I/O 



CARBOHYDRATES 



Gluconic acidf conversion into mannonicacid, 

35.90. 
Glucosamine, 42, 43. 
Glucose :-T- 

Anilides, 14, 15. 

Behaviour towards alkali, 28, 40, 41. 

Constitution, 3. 

Dimethylacetal, 22. 

Electrolysis of, 28. 

Ethylmercaptal, 22. 

Fermentation, 73. 

Formula, 4, 5, 6. 

Guanidine compounds, 41. 

Hydrate, 19. 

Hydrazones, 14, 15. 

Hydrolysis by enzymes, control of, by 
glucose, 78, 79. 

Isomeric forms, 17-19, 26. 

Osazone, 32. 

Osone, 32, 33» 67, 75. 

Oximes, 14, 15. 

Pentacetates, zo, 21. 

Phenylhydrazone, 15, 29. 

Phenylosazone, 31. 

Synthesis, 91. 
GluGosides : — 

Antiseptic action, 127. 

Formula, 104. 

Significance, 125-129. 

Synthesis, 123, 124. 

Table, 107, 108. 
Glucosido-galactose, 97. 
Glucovanillin, xiz. 
Glucuronic acid, 35, 36. 
Glutose, 40. 

Glycerol glucoside, synthesis of, Z02. 
Glycerose, 89. 
Gossypitrin, ZZ2. 
Guanosin, 52. 
Gynocardase, X2Z. 
Gynocardin, Z2Z. 

Hblicin, x8o. 
Hexose phosphate, 44, 74. 
Hormones, Z27. 
Hydrazones, 30. 
Hydrolysis :— 

control of, by glucose, 78, 79. 

of glucosides, 85, 86. 

relative rate of, by acids, 85, 86. 
Hydroxyflavone glucosides, zz2. 

Iditol, 57. 

Incamatrin, xz2. 

Indican, ZZ3. 

Indimulsin, ZZ3. 

Interconversion of glucose, mannose, fruc- 
tose, 40. 

Invertase, 62, 65, 67, 68, 70, 7Z, 80, 83, 96, 
Z06. 
— presence of carbohydrates in, 80. 

Isoamygdalin, 120. 

Isodulcitol, 55. 

Isoglucosamine, 43. 

Isolactose, 67, 99. 

Isomaltose, 65, 99- zoo. 

Isomeric change a ^3-ghicose, 20-23* 



Isoquercitrin, ZZ2. 
Isotrehalose, 98. 

Lactase, 67, 8z, 96. 

Lactones, optical rotatory power, 34.. 

Lactose, 66, 85. 

Laevulinic acid, 49. 

Laevulose. See Fructose. 

Laurocerasin, ZZ9. 

Limettin, zzi. 

Linamarin, Z2z. 

Lotase, Z22. 

Lotusin, 122, Z28. 

Lupeose v, Stachyose. 

Lyzose, 54. 

Maltase, 8, 64, 65, 67, 68, 77, 97, 99.. 
Maltose, 63, 64, 85, 97. 
Mandelonitrile glucosides, zz6. 

— V, Prunasin. 

Mannitol, 33. 47. 49. 57. 67, 82, 90. 
Mannononose, 76. 
Mannotetrose v. Stacfayose. 
Mannotriose, 69. 
Mannose, 26, 47, Z05. 
Mass action equation, 84. 
Melibiase, 67. 
Melibiose, 67, 68, 98. 
Mdicitose, 70. 
Melitose. See Raffinose. 
Melitriose. See Raffinose. 
Metabolism of glucose, 23. 
Methyl arbutin, Z09, Z23. 

— fructoside, 49, 62. 

— galactoside, 47, 78, 8z. 

— glucoses, Z3, Z4. 

— glucosides, 7-9, Z7, 22, 77, 85, 86.. 

action of enzymes on, 8, 77. 

formulae, 9. 

— glyoxaline from carbohydrates, 4Z.. 

— maltoside, 64. 

— mannoside, 77. 

— pentoses, 55, 56. 

— xyloside, 78. 

Milk sugar. See Lactose. 
Monosaccharides : — 

List of, 25, 46. 

Synthesis, 89-9Z. 
Mucic acid, 35. 
Mustard oil glucosides, ZZ4. 
Mutarotation, z6-20.>' — 
Myrosin, zo8, ZZ4. 

NOMBNCLATURB, 24^2^, 26, JJj, 
OCTITOL, 58. 

rOzonium compounds, 20-23. 

Pentosans, 52, 53. 
Pentoses, 52-54, 78. 
Perseitol, 47, 57, 82. 
Phaseolunatin, Z2z. 
Phenyl hydrazones, Z5, 29, 30* 

— osazones, 30. 

of disaccharides, 60. 

Phloridzin, zxo. 
Photosynthesis, 92-96. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



171 



Popdlin, zzo. 

Prulaurasin, 119. 

Pninase, zz8. 

Prunasin, zz6-z2o. 

Pyrazine derivative from glucosamine, 43. 

QUBRCIMBRITRIN, ZZ2. 

Quercitrin, zz2. 

-Raffinosb, 48, 7a 
Respiration in plants, zag. 
Respiratory chromogens, Z29. 
Revertose, 65, 99. 
Rhamnase, zo8. 
Rhamninase, 69. 
Rhamninose, 69, zo6. 
Rhamnose, 55, Z05. 
Rhodeose, 56. 
Ribose, 25, 52, zz5. 
Ripening of fleshy fruits, Z32-Z33. 
Robinin, ZZ2. 
Rutin, ZZ3. 

Saccharic acid, 35. 

^alicin, 85, zo6, Z07, zzo, Z28. 

— synthesis of, zoz, zo3. 
:6alinigrin, zzz. 
Sambunigrin, ZZ9. 
Scopolin, zzz. 
-Serotin, ZZ3. 
Sinalbin, ZZ5. 
Sinigrin, ZZ4. 
Skimmin, zzz. 
Sorbitol, 33, 57, 82, 83. 
Sorbose, 5z, 82, 96. 



Stachyose, yz. 
Stereo-isomerides, 4. 
Strophantobiose, 68. 
Sucrose, 6z, 62, 97. 

— formula, 62, 87. 
Synthesis of hexoses : — 

Dulcitol series, 5Z, 90. 
Mannitol series, 89-9Z. 
Syringin, zzz, ZZ5. 

Taoatosb, 47, 75, 90. 
Talose, 47, 80. 
Tannins, 45, zag. 
Taxicatin, zo6, Z28. 
Tetra-acetyl glucose, Z3. 
Tetramethyl glucoses, Z3. 

— methyl giuoosides, 22, 80. 
Tetra-saccharides, 7Z. 
Tetroses, 53. 

Thiophenol glucoside, Z23. 

— lactoside, Z23. 
Trehalase, 63. 
Trehalose, 63. 
Trioses, 53, 76. 
Trisaccharides, 60, 69-7Z. 
Turanose, 68. 

Vbrnin, 52, ZZ5. 
Vicianase, Z22. 
Vicianin, Z22. 
Vicianose, 68, Z22. 
Volemitol, 57. 

Xanthorhamnin, 69, Z06, ZZ3. 
Xylose, 52, 54» Sa. 



abbrdbbn: thb univbrsity prbss 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




im^ 



^Si^^^^^^* 





MONOGRAPHS ON BIOCHEMISTRY 

SDITSD BY 

R. H. A. PLIMMER, D.Sc. 

AND 

F. G. HOPKINS, M.A., M.a, D.Sc, F.R.& 



MONOGRAPHS ON BIOCHEMISTRY 

SDITBD BT 

R. H. A. PLIMMER, D.Sc. 

AND 

F. G. HOPKINS, D.SC., F.R.& 
RoTAL 8va 

THE NATURE OF ENZYME ACTION. By 
W. M. Bayliss, D.Sc, F.R.S. Second Edition. 
38. 6d. net. 

THE CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION OF THE 
PROTEINS. By R. H. A. Plimmbr, D.Sc. In 
2 Parts. Second Edition. Part I., 58. 6d. net 
Part II., 

THE GENERAL CHARACTERS OF THE PRO- 
TEINS. By S. B. ScHRYVBR, Ph.D., D.Sc. 
28. 6d. net. 

THE VEGETABLE PROTEINS. By Thomas B. 
OsBORNB, Ph.D. 38. Gd. net 

THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND THE 
GLUCOSIDES. By E. Frankland Armstrong, 
D.Sc., Ph.D. Second Edition. 58.. net 

THE FATS. By J. B. Leathbs, F.R.S., M.A., M.B., 
F.R.C.S. 48. net. 

ALCOHOLIC FERMENTATION. By A. Hardbn, 
Ph.D., D.Sc., F.R.S. 48. net 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF PROTEIN META- 
BOLISM. By E. P. Cathcart, M.D., D.Sc. 
48. 6d. net. 

SOIL CONDITIONS AND PLANT GROWTH. 
By E. J. RussBLL, D.Sc. 58. net 

OXIDATIONS AND REDUCTIONS IN THE 
ANIMAL BODY. By H. D. Da4in, D.Sc., F.LC. 
48. net. 

THE DEVELOPMENT AND PRESENT POSI- 
TION OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY. By 
F. GowLAND Hopkins, M.A., M.B., D.Sc., F.R.S. 

THE POLYSACCHARIDES. By Arthur R. Lino, 
F.I.C. 

COLLOIDS. By W. B. Hardy, M.A.. F.R.S. 

SIMPLE NATURAL BASES. By G. Baroer, D.Sc. 

RESPIRATORY EXCHANGE IN ANIMALS. By . 
A. Krogh, Pb.D. 



LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO., 

LONDON, NBW YORK, BOMBAY AND CALCUTTA. 



THE 

SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES 

AND 

THE GLUCOSIDES 



E. FRANKLAND ^RMSTRONG, D.Sc.. PiiD. 

PILLOW OP TBB aTT AND OUILM OP LONDOH tNSTtTUTB 



SECOKD BDlTlOlf 



LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO. 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 
NEW YORK, BOMBAY AND CALCUTTA 



• • 









' b k 



C >» . 






I 31^ 



GENERAL PREFACE. 

The subject of Physiological Chemistry, or Biochemistry, is 
enlarging its borders to such an extent at the present time, 
that no single text-book upon the subject, without being 
cumbrous, can adequately deal with it as a whole, so as to 
give both a general and a detailed account of its present 
position. It is, moreover, difficult, in the case of the larger 
text-books, to keep abreast of so rapidly growing a science 
by means of new editions, and such volumes are therefore 
issued when much of their contents has become obsolete. 

For this reason, an attempt is being made to place this 
branch of science in a more accessible position by issuing 
a series of monographs upon the various chapters of the 
subject, each independent of and yet dependent upon the 
others, so that from time to time, as new material and 
the demand therefor necessitate, a new edition of each mono- 
graph can be issued without re-issuing the whole series. In 
this way, both the expenses of publication and the expense 
to the purchaser will be diminished, and by a moderate 
outlay it will be possible to obtain a full account of any 
particular subject as nearly current as possible 

The editors of these monographs have kept two objects 
in view: firstly, that each author should be himself working 
at the subject with which he deals ; and, secondly, that a 
Bibliography^ as complete as possible, should be included, 
in order to avoid cross references, which are apt to be 
wrongly cited, and in order that each monograph may yield 
full and independent information of the work which has been 
done upon the subject. 

It has been decided as a general scheme that the volumes 
first issued shall deal with the pure chemistry of physiological 
products and with certain general aspects of the subject. 
Subsequent monographs will be devoted to such questions 
as the chemistry of special tissues and particular aspects of 
metabolism. So the series, if continued, will proceed from 
physiological chemistry to what may be now more properly 
termed chemical physiology. This will depend upon the 
success which the first series achieves, and upon the divisions 
of the subject which may be of interest at the time. 

R. H. A. P. 
F. G. H. 



3706 



i 



PREFACE. 

Twenty-eight years ago the late Sir John Burdon Sanderson 
described one of the aims of Physiology as the acquirement 
of an exact knowledge of the chemical and physical processes 
of animal life. The recent history of physiological progress 
shows that investigations confined to the study of physical 
and chemical processes have been the most fruitful source of 
physiological advance, and it is principally the exact chemical 
study of the substances found in animals and plants which has 
enabled the physiologist to make this advance. 

The last decade has seen very material progress in our 
knowledge of the carbohydrates, more particularly with r^rard 
to their inner structure, biochemical properties, and the mechan- 
ism of their metabolism. In consequence, many problems 
of the greatest fascination for the biochemist have presented 
themselves for solution. 

This monograph aims at giving a summary of the present 
position of the chemistry of the carbohydrates. The reader is 
assumed to be already acquainted with the subject so far as 
it is dealt with in the ordinary text-books. The available 
information is, however, so widely scattered in the various 
scientific periodicals that it is impossible for any one approach- 
ing the subject to inform himself rapidly of what has been done. 
It is to meet such needs that this monograph is primarily 
intended. 

A bibliography is appended, which contains references, 
classified under appropriate headings, to most of the recent 
works on the subject and to the more important of the older 
papers. It makes no claim to be exhaustive but serves to 
indicate how much is at present being done in this field. 

E. F. A. 



VI 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 

Our interest in the carbohydrates has been again aroused by 
the return of Emil Fischer to the subject He has announced 
his acceptance of the y-oxide formula of glucose which was 
used in the first edition of the monograph to explain all the 
properties of this carbohydrate In continuation of his work 
on the acyl derivatives of glucose he has been able to show the 
probable composition of the tannins : he seems to think that 
compounds of this type may be widely distributed in animals 
and plants and may account for some of the peculiar properties 
of carbohydrates known to biologists. 

It has been found advisable to modify the arrangement of 
Chapter I. The treatment of the rarer carbohydrates has been 
extended and, wherever possible, their relation to enzymes has 
been demonstrated. The chapter on the glucosides has been 
considerably enlarged and a new chapter, dealing with the 
significance of the carbohydrates in plant physiology, has been 
added. The monograph should therefore appeal more generally 
to those interested in the subject from the botanical and agricul- 
tural sides. These problems are some of the most fascinating 
of those now under investigation and their study must add to 
our conceptions of vital change. 

It is a pleasant duty to express my thanks to Mr. F. W. 
Jackson, B.Sc, A.C.G.I., for his help in the revision of the 
proofs. 



vu 



CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

Introduction i 

I. Glucose 3 

II. The Chemical Properties of Glucose - - - - 28 

III. The Hexoses and Pentoses 46 

IV. The Disaccharides -.- - 59 

V. The Relation Between Configuration and Properties - 72 

VI. Hydrolysis and Synthesis 84 

VII. The Natural and Synthetical Glucosides - - - 104 

VIII. The Function of Carbohydrates and Glucosides in 

Plants 125 

Bibliography - -i3S 

Index 169 



Vltl 



INTRODUCTION. 

The carbohydrates, together with the proteins, rank first in importaince 
among organic compounds on account of the part they play, both in 
plants and animals, as structural elements and in the maintenance of 
the functional activity of the organism. 

The interest attaching to the group may be said to centre around 
glucose, this carbohydrate being the first to arise in the plant and the 
unit group from which substances such as cane sugar, maltose, starch 
and cellulose are derived ; it is also of primary importance in animal 
metabolism, as the main bulk of the carbohydrate in our food materials 
enters into circulation in the form of glucose. 

Under natural conditions the higher carbohydrates are resolved into 
the simpler by the hydrolytic agency of enzymes, but these also exer- 
cise synthetic functions; the simpler carbohydrates are further resolved 
by processes which are undoubtedly akin to that of ordinary alcoholic 
fermentation. The carbohydrates are, therefore, of primary importance 
as furnishing material for the study of the processes of digestion and 
assimilation. 

The carbohydrates are all remarkable on account of their optical 
characters ; it is possible to correlate these with their structure. Of the 
large number of possible isomeric forms of the gluco-hexose C^HijOg, 
sixteen in all, of which glucose is one, only four are met with in 
Nature, although fourteen have already been prepared by artificial 
means ; this natural limitation of the number produced in the plant and 
utilised by it and by the animal is a fact of great significance and clear 
proof of the manifestation of a selective process at some period in the 
evolution of life. The elucidation of these peculiarities invests the in- 
quiry into the nature and functions of the carbohydrates with particular 
interest and significance. 

The simple carbohydrates are all of the empirical composition cor- 
responding with the formula CHjO, the most important being those 
containing five or six atoms of carbon. The members of the sugar 
group are usually distinguished by names having the sufiix ose. 

The simplest carbohydrate, CHjO, formaldehyde or formal, is in 

I 



2 CARBOHYDRATES 

all probability the first product of vital activity in the plant, the carbon 
dioxide absorbed from the air being converted into this substance by 
the combined influence of sunlight and chlorophyll. The conversion 
of formaldehyde into glucose has been accomplished in the laboratory, 
but the transformation takes place in such a way that a variety of pro- 
ducts is obtained which are optically inactive ; there is reason to sup- 
pose that but the single substance dextro-glucose is formed in the plant 
and that this is almost immediately converted into starch ; in other 
words, the vital process is in some way a directed change. The record 
of the synthetic production of glucose and of the discovery of methods 
of producing the isomeric hexoses, as well as of determining the structure 
of the several isomerides, is one of the most fascinating chapters in the 
history of modem organic chemistry. 

It would be impossible within the limits of a brief monograph to 
deal at length with the carbohydrates generally. In the following ac- 
count, glucose will be taken as a typical sugar, and its properties an4 
interrelationships will be considered more particularly with reference 
to their biochemical importance. The disaccharides and glucosides 
will be dealt with in a similar manner. Those who desire fuller in- 
formation should consult the comprehensive works compiled by Lipp- 
mann and by Maquenne. 

In discussing the various problems associated with the carbohydrates, 
the writer will strive to indicate the alternative views which have been 
advanced. He will, however, endeavour to develop the subject as far 
as possible as a logical whole, rather than leave the reader undecided 
at every turn. Such a method of treatment is more likely to stimulate 
inquiry by giving a picture of the present attitude of workers towards 
the various problems which the carbohydrates present 



CHAPTER I. 

GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE). 

It has been customary to speak of this sugar as grape sugar to 
distinguish it from cane sugar and on account of its occurrence in the 
juice of the grape and of other ripening fruits in association with fructose 
(laevulose). The two hexoses are probably derived from pre-existent 
cane sugar, as the three sugars are nearly always found together and as 
cane sugar is easily resolved into glucose and fructose by hydrolysis : — 



CmIV>ii + H,0 = C-H^,0. + C^HaOe 
Cane Sugar. Glucose. Fructose. 



Glucose is also formed from other more complex sugars when these 
are broken down by hydrolysis with the assistance of the appropriate 
enz)nnes or of acids — for example, from milk sugar or lactose, malt 
^ugar or maltose, starch and cellulose. It is easily prepared from 
starch by the action of diluted sulphuric acid and is therefore to be 
purchased at small cost. It separates from an aqueous solution with 
a molecule of water of crystallisation, but this is held only loosely, 
as the anhydrous substance may be crystallised from dilute alcohol. 
Unlike cane sugar, it never separates in well-defined clear crystals from 
either water or alcohol, but is usually met with as crystalline powder. 

Constitution. 

Glucose is represented by the molecular formula C^HyOg. Five 
of the six atoms of oxygen are to be regarded as present in the 
alcoholic form, as hydroxyl (OH) ; the sixth under certain conditions 
manifests aldehydic functions. Thus, when acted upon by metallic 
hydroxides, glucose forms compounds which resemble the " alco- 
holates " ; and it is converted by acids, acid anhydrides and chlorides, 
into ethereal salts or esters such as the following : — 

C^H^OiNO,). C,H70(0 . CO . CHJ. C^H^OCO . CO . C^H^j 

Glucose pentanitrate. Glucose pentacetate. Glucose pentabenzoate. 



I  



4 CARBOHYDRATES 

On reduction, it takes up two atoms of hydrogen and is converted 
into a hexahydric alcohol ; on oxidation it yields the monobasic acid, 
gluconic acid, CfiHg(OH)5 . CO . OH ; when heated with a concentrated 
solution of hydrogen iodide, it loses the whole of its oxygen and is 
converted into an iodohexane, C^H^gl, which itself is a derivative of 
normal hexane, CH, . CHj . CH, . CH, . CH, . CH,. 

On account of the stability of glucose, it is to be assumed that each 
hydroxyl group is associated with a different carbon atom ; as glucose 
is a derivative of normal hexane, the constitutional formula of the 
aldehydic form may be written in the following manner : — 

CH8(0H) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO 

But it was long a matter of remark that glucose, as a rule, is far 
less active than was to be expected, assuming it to be an hydroxyalde- 
hyde. The difficulty was removed when ToUens, in 1883, proposed to 
represent it by a formula in which fo,ur of the carbon atoms are included 
in a ring, together with a single oxygen atom. 

A carbon atom which has four different groups attached to it is 
known as asymmetric. These groups can obviously be written in 
order either clockwise : — 

a 
d h 

c 

or counter clockwise : — 



h d 



Two different forms of the substance are therefore possible, related 
as object to image, and they are termed stereoisomerides. The formula 
of glucose as written above contains four such asymmetric carbon 
atoms ; accordingly the rearrangement of the groups about any one of 
these will give rise 'to an isomeride. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 5 

If the r^ular tetrahedron be adopted as the model of the carbon 
atom and it be supposed that the four affinities are directed towards 
its four solid angles from the centre of a sphere within which the tetra- 
hedron is inscribed, the direction of the affinities is such (lOp"* 24") that, 
on uniting four such tetrahedra together and interposing as representa- 
tive of the oxygen atom a ball with two affinities arranged in about the 
same directions as the two carbon affinities, a closed system or ring is 
formed almost naturally, in which there is no strain, the internal angles 
being practically those in a regular pentagon, thus : — 

H H 
C— — c 

Hv /OH H0\ 

^'^ CH . CH(OH) . CH^OH) 




This symbol has been very widely adopted, as it is in general 
accordance with the interactions of glucose. Fischer has stated re- 
cently his acceptance of it in preference to the aldehyde formula. It 
is the representation in a plane surface of a solid model of glucose made 
by combining tetrahedra in the conventional manner. The reader is 
advised strongly to construct such a model himself to enable him to 
follow the argument developed in this chapter. The behaviour of 
glucose as an aldehyde is accounted for if it be assumed that, when the 
ring is ruptured by hydrolysis, the closed-chain form passes into the 
aldehydic form in the following manner : — 

H OHH OH H OHH OH 

\/ \/ V V 

C C C C 




Hv/ \ 



CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) <- ^C CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) 

HO-^ 



OH no 



H. 



O 
Closed ring. Aldchydrol. 

H OHH OH H OHH OH 

/ \ ^-x/ \ 

:: CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) ^ ^c c 

\ / "^ / 

OH HO'^ HO 

Aldchydrol. Aldehyde 



yC CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) ^ ^.C CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) 

HO'^ 



+ H,0 



6 CARBOHYDRATES 

This action being reversible, it is to be supposed that when an 
agent such as phenyihydrazine,^ which will act upon aldehyde, is added 
to the aqueous solution, the small amount of aldehydrol present is 
attacked and removed ; the equilibrium is thereby disturbed, but is 
rapidly restored by the formation of a fresh quantity of the aldehydrol, 
which in turn disappears but only to have its place taken by a further 
quantity. Ultimately the whole becomes converted into the aldehydic 
derivative. 

On reference to the closed-chain formula of glucose, it will be seen 
that the potentially aldehydic carbon atom (printed in clarendon type), 
as well as the three other carbon atoms in the ring, and also the atom 
which is immediately contiguous to the ring on the right-hand side 
of the formula (page 5), are all asymmetric^ in the sense that each of 
them is associated with four different radicles, or in other words a fifth 
asymmetric carbon atom has arisen in this formula. Consequently the 
closed-chain form 0/ glucose may be written in either of two ways^ de- 
pending on the arrangement of the groups around this atom, printed 
here in clarendon, thus : — 

ho c h h c oh 

hcohV hcoh\ 

HotH /^ HobH /^ 

HC^ HC 

HCOH hAgH 

CH,OH CHjOH 

o-Glucoec /5-GIUCO8C. 

The two methyl glucosides are to be regarded as the methyl deriva- 
tives of these two stereoisomeric forms of glucose. 

1 See Chapter II. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 



The Methyl 

In considering the structure of glucose, the compounds which 
deserve attention in the first place are the two isomeric methyl gluco- 
sides (a and /3), which are formed by the interaction of glucose and 
methylic alcohol under the influence of hydrogen chloride. These 
compounds are the prototypes of the natural glucosides. They were 
discovered by Emil Fischer in 1893. He prepared them by dis- 
solving glucose in cold methylic alcohol, saturated with dry hydrogen 
chloride gas. After several hours, when it had lost all cupric reducing 
power, the mixture was neutralised with lead carbonate. Crystals of 
the a-compound were obtained on concentrating the solution; the 
j8-compound was isolated later from the mother liquor, and was first 
obtained crystalline by Van Ekenstein. 

The methyl glucosides differ considerably from glucose, more par- 
ticularly in never behaving as aldehydes ; and their rotatory power in 
solution is the same in a freshly-prepared solution as it is in one which 
has been kept for some time, which is not the case with glucose. They 
are undoubtedly formed by the introduction of methyl, in place of an 
atom of hydrogen, in the hydroxyl group attached to the carbon atom 
which exercises aldehydic functions in the open-chain form of glucose. 
It is to be noted that the introduction of methyl in this position has 
the effect of rendering the ring far more stable than it is in glucose, as 
it is to be supposed that compounds such as phenylhydrazine, and 
oxidising agents such as Fehling's solution, are \ without action because 
the glucosides do not undergo hydrolysis in solution in the way that 
glucose does. 

Hie two glucosides are distinguished by the prefixes a and /8, their 
properties being as follows : — 

Mdting-poiiit Rotatory Power. 
a-Methyl glucoside .... 165® + 157® 

jS-Methyl glucoside .... 104° - 33® 

They are both colourless crystalline substances, the a-isomeride 
crystallising usually in long needles, the /9-isomeride in rectangular 
prisms. 

When hydrolysed by acids they yield methyl alcohol and glucose. 
At ordinary temperatures hydrolysis, even by moderately strong mineral 
acids, proceeds but slowly ; and if it be desired to study the course of 
hydrolysis it is advisable to work at elevated temperatures, say 70"* to 



8 CARBOHYDRATES 

So"* C. As in other chemical reactions, the hydrolytic power of acids 
towards glucosides increases with a rise in temperature. A convenient 
method of experimenting consists in mixing acid and glucoside in a 
closed flask immersed in a thermostat so as to maintain the required 
temperature. Samples of the liquid are withdrawn at stated intervals 
of time, rapidly cooled by immersion in ice water to check hydrolysis, 
and the amount of glucose formed estimated either gravimetrically or 
with the polarimeter. To prevent evaporation it is advisable to add 
a little paraffin wax to the mixture of glucoside and acid. Measure- 
ments made in this way show that a definite fraction of the glucoside 
present is hydrolysed in each unit of time, the course of change follow- 
ing what is known as the logarithmic curve. The /9-compound is at- 
tacked more rapidly than the a. This point will be referred to again 
in Chapter VI. 

The methyl glucosides are also hydrolysed by enzymes, but both 
isomerides are not hydrolysed by the same enzyme. In fact, the action 
of enzymes towards the glucosides is specific, and each form requires 
its own particular enzyme : ormethyl glucoside is hydrolysed by 
maltase ; )3-methyl glucoside by emulsin. The enzymes act at ordin- 
ary temperatures, preferably not above 37"* C, and are far more active 
as hydrolytic agents than acids. 

Returning to the preparation of the glucosides just described 
it will be noted that both forms are produced simultaneously, the a- 
isomeride predominating. When solid anhydrous glucose (a-glucose) 
is dissolved in dry methyl alcohol containing dry hydrogen chloride 
the first change is its rapid conversion into a mixture of a- and j8- 
glucose in nearly equal parts. Each of these then undergoes etherifi- 
cation, the primary result being a mixture of a- and /9-methyl gluco- 
sides, in which the latter is slightly in excess. On standing, slow 
conversion of the )8-methyl glucoside into the more stable a-isomeride 
takes place. The equilibrated mixture of the glucosides contains 77 
per cent, of the a- and 23 per cent of the )8-isomeride. If, however, 
the solution be neutralised as soon as etherification is complete and 
before the isomeric changes take place, and the solvent be removed, a 
mixture of the two glucosides in approximately equal quantities is ob- 
tained. These may be separated by fractional crystallisation. 

Such a process is somewhat tedious when )8-methyl glucoside is the 
object of the preparation, and it is more convenient to make use of 
biological methods. On treatment with yeast, which contains the 
enzyme maltase, the a-methyl glucoside is hydrolysed to glucose and 
methyl alcohol, and the glucose is removed by fermentation, so that 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 9 

^-methyl glucoside, which is not attacked by yeast, alone remains, and 
can be isolated and purified. 

When, on the other hand, o-methyl glucoside is desired, the action 
of the acid is allowed to continue until equilibrium is attained, and, 
after crystallisation of some quantity of the a-methyl glucoside, the 
mother liquors are again heated with a little acid. This has the effect 
of causing the )3-glucoside present to be converted into o^lucoside 
until equilibrium is again reached, when 77 per cent of the total solid 
present is o-glucoside, and in consequence a further quantity of o-glu- 
coside crystallises on removal of the solvent 

Fischer employs an alternative method, which consists in heating 
the alcoholic glucose solution with very little acid in an autoclave. It 
is then not necessary to neutralise before crystallisation of the <^^luco* 
side. 

Maquenne has prepared )3-methyI glucoside by the action of methyl 
sulphate and sodium hydroxide on glucose dissolved in water. It is 
stated that the )3-isomeride alone is formed under these conditions, 
but the quantity obtained is not large. 

As already stated, the two methyl glucosides are regarded as stereo- 
isomeric 7-oxides,^ and have the following structural formulae : — 





jOH 

/3-Methyl glucoside. 

^ It 18 a characteristic property of ^-hydroxyacids to lose water very readily, forming 

ring compounds containing four atoms of carbon and one of oxygen : these are termed 

7-lactone8. Thus — 

O- 



CH,(OH) . CH, . CH, . CO,H = H,0 + CH, . CH, . CH, . CO 
7-Hydroxybutyric acid. y-Butyrcdactone. 

Similar four carbon-oxygen ring compounds when derived from y-hydroxy compounds other 
than adds are named y-oxides. The ring is termed a pentaphane ring. 



lo CARBOHYDRATES 



The More Important Derivatives of Glucose. 

The experimental work of the last ten years has shown that most of 
the derivatives of glucose likewise exist in two forms differing in 
physical properties, more particularly crystalline form, optical rotatory 
power and melting-point. The chemical behaviour of all these sub- 
stances is such that it must be assumed that the aldehydic function has 
disappeared giving rise to the closed-ring structure already formulated. 

Glucose Pentacetates, — Under proper experimental conditions, all 
five hydroxyl groups in glucose become acetylated, the a- or j8-pent- 
acetate predominating in the product according to the method adopted. 
As these compounds form the starting-point for a number of syntheses, 
it is important to understand fully the methods of preparing them. 

They have the following formulae : — 

AcO— CH HC— OAo 

HCOAc \ HCOAc 



AcOC 





AcO( 
[Ac - CH,0] 
HC 
HC . OAc HC . OAc 

CH, . OAc CH, . OAc 

a-Gliioo0e penUcetate. iS-Glucose pentaceUte. 

To obtain the o-pentacetate it is necessary to acetylate glucose 
instantly before isomeric change can take place, since the presence of 
acid greatly accelerates the isomeric change from a- to /9-glucose. This 
is done by adding anhydrous a-glucose to boiling acetic anhydride con- 
taining a small quantity of zinc chloride as catalyst. A violent action 
ensues, and the sugar passes into solution. The product is poured into 
water, which is changed from time to time to remove the acetic acid ; 
finally the a-glucose pentacetate solidifies. The crude product contains 
both isomerides : it is purified by crystallisation from alcohol. The a- 
pentacetate predominates also when glucose is acetylated in pyridine 
solution at o^ 

To obtain the )8-pentacetate, glucose is mixed with acetic anhydride 
and sodium acetate, and heated for some time at the temperature of 
the water bath. As the change from a- to )9-glucose in this case pre- 
cedes acetylation, )9-glucose pentacetate predominates in the final 
product, and may be separated by fractional crystallisation. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) ii 

The pentacetates are colourless crystalline compounds, insoluble in 
water and readily hydrolysed by alkaline hydroxides. When heated 
with acetic anhydride either form is partially converted into the other : 
Jungius has shown that this change may also be effected by adding 
a small amount of sulphur trioxide to a solution of the acetate in 
chloroform. 

AcetodUoro^ Acetonitro Glucoses. — In either isomeride, one of the 
acetyl groups — that attached to the terminal carbon atom (in clarendon 
type) linked to the pentaphane oxygen atom — is far more active than 
the rest. When subjected to the action of anhydrous liquid hydro- 
gen bromide or hydrogen chloride in sealed tubes at the ordinary 
temperature, this acetyl group alone is replaced by halogen. In this 
way o-pentacetyl glucose gives a-acetochloro glucose, )9-pentacetyl 
glucose the corresponding /9-acetochloro glucose — ^both beautifully 
crystalline colourless substances. Nitric acid acts in a similar manner 
causing the formation of crystalline a- and )3-acetonitro glucoses : — 

HC . OAc 

/ , 

HC . OAc' 
(HNOJ 

AcO.iH / "^ AcO 






OAc CH,.OAc 

jS-Glucose pentacetate. iS-Acetochloro glucose. 

Physical measurements also indicate that one of the acetyl groups 
is more easily detached than the others. This is proved by the fact 
that the rate at which the acetyl groups are removed by hydrolysis 
with alkali from the glucose pentacetates decreases as change pro- 
ceeds ; yet the tetra-acetyl methyl glucosides, which contain four simi- 
larly placed acetyl groups but lack the one contiguous to the pentaphane 
oxygen, are hydrolysed by alkali at a rate which is constant throughout 
the whole change. 

The chloro-, bromo- and nitro- groups are even more reactive than 
the acetyl group, and are easily replaced — for example, by methoxyl 
— on shaking a solution of the compound in anhydrous methyl alcohol 
with silver carbonate. The isomeric tetra-acetyl methyl glucosides 
thus obtained are converted, when hydrolysed by an alkali, into the 
corresponding isomeric methyl glucosides. These syntheses make it 
possible to pass from )8-glucose to )9-methyl glucoside through a series 
of )9-compounds and to correlate all these compounds with iS-^lucose. 



I 2 CARBOHYDRATES 

Acetochloro and acetobromo glucose have been rendered easily 
accessible by a more convenient method of preparation : fi^lucose 
pentacetate, dissolved in acetic acid, is treated with a saturated solution 
of the hydrogen halide in glacial acetic acid. Acetoiodo glucose has 
also been prepared. In all cases, by this method only the )3-deriva- 
tives are obtained. Apparently rearrangement takes place very readily 
during the preparation of i^-acetochloro glucose by means of anhydrous 
hydrogen chloride and the o-derivatives are not always obtainable ; 
indeed Fischer's most recent investigation has cast some doubt on 
their existence. 

When the action of anhydrous hydrogen bromide on glucose 
pentacetate is prolonged dibromo-triacetyl glucose is obtained. One of 
the bromine atoms can be replaced by methoxyl with the formation 
of triacetyl methyl glucoside bromohydrin. This compound has 
served as the starting-point for the preparation of a new isomeride of 
glucosamine (p. 43). When it is heated with barium hydroxide 
hydrogen bromide is eliminated, and anhydromethyl glucoside, C^HuOg, 
is formed ; this when hydrolysed by dilute acids yields anhydn^lucose, 
a well-characterised crystalline substance. It forms a phenylhydrazone 
and phenylosazone, both containing one molecule of water less than 
the corresponding glucose compounds. On the assumption of a <y-oxide 
ring structure for the new anhydride, anhydro glucose will have the 
attached formula. This is fully in harmony with the deductions 

HCOH 

/ 

a HCOH 




possible from the solid model of glucose. The €<arbon being free to 
rotate can take up the position indicated, which is favourable for the 
formation of a 7-oxide ring, linking it with the /8-carbon atom 
through oxygen. The second bromine atom in triacetyl-dibromo 
glucose is presumably in the i8-position, the only possible alternative 
being the c-position. 

Anhydromenthol glucoside has been obtained in a similar manner 
to anhydromethyl glucoside ; it is of interest that emulsin is without 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 13 

action on either compound, though it readily hydrolyses the normal 
glucosides. 

When )3-acetobromoglucose is shaken in ethereal solution with 
silver carbonate and a little water tetra-acetyl glucose is obtained ; 
this, like tetra-methyl glucose, exhibits mutarotation and exists in 
two forms. Acetobromo glucose also interacts with pyridine, forming 
tetra-acetyl glucose pyridinium bromide. 

Methyl Glucoses, — The properties of the hydroxyl groups in 
glucose can be masked by their replacement by acetyl or benzoyl 
groups. The ethers so formed crystallise well, but the acid groups 
render these compounds resistant to the action of enzymes. The 
substitution of methoxyl for hydroxyl has a less disturbing influence ; 
indeed methylation has little effect on the characteristic chemical re- 
actions of reducing sugars except in increasing stability. The reducing 
sugars themselves cannot be directly methylated by any of the ordinary 
methods ; but, as Furdie and Irvine have shown, it is possible to 
methylate the methyl glucosides by exhaustive treatment with methyl 
iodide and silver oxide. The products are purified by distillation in 
vacuum and subsequently obtained crystalline. 

The isomeric a- and )3-pentamethyl glucoses (^^., tetramethyl- 
methyl glucosides), when hydrolysed by acids, are converted into tetra- 
methyl glucoses : — 





MeOCH 

-► H 

I 
HCOMe 

:H,OMe CH|OMe 

o-Pentamethyl glncoec o-Tetramethyl glncose. 

Both compounds yield finally the same tetramethyl glucose of 
constant rotatory power, but initially a- and /8-tetramethyl glucoses are 
obtained from them, which exhibit mutarotation and slowly change in 
solution into the equilibrated mixture. Tetramethyl glucose is con- 
verted by Fischer's method of etherification into a mixture of a- and 
)8-tetramethyl-methyl glucosides. 

Tetramethyl glucose is not fermentable, but tetramethyl j8-methyl 
glucoside is hydrolysed by emulsin, a fact which indicates that the 
introduction of the methyl groups into a glucoside does not put the 
resulting compounds out of harmony with enzymes. 



I 4 CARBOHYDRATES 

A number of other sugars have been alkylated in like manner. 

The partially methylated derivatives of the sugar group possess a 
special interest, as their study may be expected to afford a clue to 
many of the vexed questions in carbohydrate chemistry. It is only 
recently that definite mono-, di- and trimethylated hexoses have been 
prepared by Irvine, and their investigation is not yet completed. The 
methods employed in their preparation consist in subjecting to methyla- 
tion by the silver iodide method hexose derivatives in which certain 
of the hydroxyl groups are shielded from attack. The partially 
methylated glucoses are obtained on submitting these compounds to 
hydrolysis. 

Thus, glucose diacetone forms only a monomethyl derivative, from 
which on hydrolysis e- (or 8)-monomethyl glucose 

CH,(OMe) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH(OH)]s . CH(OH) 

! o— ' 

is obtained. 

It is of interest that the acetone groups are removed simultaneously 
and at the same rate. Both a and fi forms of the monomethyl glucose 
have been obtained crystalline. The new compound forms a mono- 
methyl glucosazone, identical with that obtained from 8-monomethyl 
fructose in which the methoxyl group has been proved to occupy the 
terminal position, since it yields dihydroxymethoxybutyric acid on 
oxidation which is incapable of forming a lactone. To prepare di- 
methyl glucose, benzylidine a-methyl glucoside is methylated and the 
product hydrolysed, first the benzylidene group and then the glucoside 
group being eliminated. Both a and fi isomerides of the compound 
have been prepared ; it has the constitution : — 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . (OMc)], . CH(OH) 
I ! o 1 

When methyl glucoside is methylated in methyl alcoholic solution a 
trimethyl glucose methyl glucoside is the main product from which 
2:3:5 trimethyl glucose is obtained on hydrolysis ; on alkylation of 
glucose monoacetone a trimethyl derivative is formed which gives 
3:5:6 trimethyl glucose : — 

CH^OMe) . CH(OMe) . CH . CH(OMe) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) 

I o ^ 

Probably two forms of this carbohydrate exist, but they have been 
obtained $0 far only in the equilibrated mixture, the optical behaviour 
of which appears to be abnormal and requires investigatioa 

Ani/tdes, Hydrazanes^ Oximes. — The interactions involved in the 
formation of anilides, hydrazones and oximes of glucose are most 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 15 

simply explained, on the assumption that the sugar is participating in 
a typical aldehyde reaction. None the less the occurrence of more 
than one form of all these derivatives forces the adoption of the closed- 
ring formula in such cases. Skraup early showed that a second phenyl- 
hydrazone of glucose could be isolated, isomeric with that described 
originally by Fischer. Isomeric benzyl phenylhydrazones have also 
been obtained. The rotatory power of hydrazones changes in solution. 
It would go too far to discuss the nature of the isomerism here, nor is 
it yet satisfactorily established, but it may be pointed out that glucose 
phenylhydrazone may be formulated in syn- and anti-forms of the 
true aldehydic derivative, or as a- and )9-hydrazides of 7-oxide structure, 
nor does this exhaust the possible isomerides. 

Irvine and Moodie have shown in the case of tetramethyl glucose 
that both the oximes and anilides possess the 7-oxide ring in the 
hexose residue, and are thus to be regarded as derived from the a- or 
^-form of glucose, and not from an aldehydic isomeride. Their con- 
clusions may reasonably be extended to the oximes and anilides of 
glucose, the latter of which Irvine and Gilmour have shown to exist in 
two modifications. The same authors failed to alkylate glucose phenyl 
hydrazone, or tetramethyl glucose phenylhydrazone, and consider it 
still an open question whether these derivatives belong to the 7-oxide 
type. 

The properties of a number of these derivatives are sununarised in 
the following table : — 

TABLE I. 



Glncoee Dsrivatiw. 


•-Series. 


0-Seriea. 


M..pt. 


Wd. 


M^pt. 


Wd. 


Penta-acetate .... 
Acetochloro .... 
Acetobromo . • • . 
Acetonitro .... 
Tetra^aoetylmethyl . 
Methyl glttcoside 


XI2« 
63** (?) 

79^ (? 
100' 


+ xoo* 

+ 1-5* 
+ 137^ 
+ 157'* 


<..o 

150P 
I04'» 


+ 3' 
+ i65« 

+ 198** 
+ 149** 

- 23' 

- 33' 



i6 CARBOHYDRATES 



Mutarotatton— The Isomeric Fonns of Glucose. 

The h)^thesis that there are two stereoisomeric forms of glucose, 
is the only one hitherto proposed which affords a satis&ctory explana- 
tion of a peculiar property, characteristic of glucose and other sugars 
manifesting aldehydic functions, now known as mutarotatUm or muUi" 
rotation (but formerly termed birotation) ; namely, the optical rotatory 
power of the freshly dissolved substance changes gradually, sometimes 
increasing, but more usually falling, until a constant value is reached. 
The term birotation was introduced because the rotatory power of glu- 
cose in solution is about twice as great when it is freshly dissolved as 
that which it eventually assumes. The change takes place very slowly 
when highly purified materials are used, but almost immediately if a 
small quantity of alkali be added. The phenomenon was first ob-> 
served by Dubrunfaut in 1846 and ascribed by him to purely phj^cal 
causes. The subject has of recent years caused a good deal of con- 
troversy, and it is simplest to deal with the views that have been 
advanced in historical sequence. 

E. Fischer, in 1890, noticed that the optical rotatory power of 
certain lactones closely related to the sugars underwent change in 
solution as the lactone became hydrolysed to the corresponding acid. 
He therefore ascribed the change which occurs with glucose to a like 
addition of a water molecule, and assumed that the glucose (aldehyde) 
underwent conversion into a heptahydric alcohol (aldehydrol) of lower 
rotatory power : — 

CHO CH(OH), 

CH(OH) incoH) 

fcH(OH) + H,0 ^ fcH(OH) 

CH(OH) fcH(OH) 

CH(OH) fcH(OH) 

CH^OH) ChJOH) 

Glncose (aldehyde). Alcohol (aldehydrol). 

The subject assumed a new aspect when it was shown by Tanret, 
in 1896, that besides the anhydrous and hydrated forms of gluco$e 
other isomeric anhydrous modifications could be obtained He 
described an a-glucose ([aJD+no"*), the initial rotatory power of 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 17 

which fell gradually to [a]D + 52'5'* ; further, a j8-glucose^ of low initial 
rotatory power ([a]^+ 19*^, increasing to [a]D + 52*5'* in solution ; and, 
lastly, a 7-glucose ([a]D+ 52-5*) of unalterable rotatory power in solu- 
tion. The three supposed isomerides were isolated by allowing glucose 
solutions to crystallise under different conditions — a-glucose separated 
at ordinary temperatures from solutions in 70 per cent, alcohol, and 
)3-glucose from aqueous solutions at temperatures above gS"* C. ; 
7-glucose was obtained by precipitating a concentrated aqueous 
solution of glucose with alcohol, a-glucose hydrate crystallises from 
aqueous solutions at the ordinary temperature. When powdered 
anhydrous glucose is added to water, it immediately undergoes hy- 
dration before passing into solution. 

The behaviour of these isomeric forms does not fit in with the 
theory that the mutarotation is due to the conversion of an aldehyde 
into an aldehydrol ; moreover, the increase in rotatory power from 
)3- to <y-glucose has also to be explained. 

Tanret, Lippmann and others suggested that some forms of glucose 
have a closed-ring structure, as proposed by ToUens, and that in solu- 
tion these are completely converted into the isomeric aldehyde. 

A more fruitful suggestion was made by Simon who drew atten- 
tion to the optical behaviour of a- and )3-glucose in relation to that 
of the isomeric methyl glucosides of which the structure was known : — 

[o]d [a]D 

a- Methyl gluooside + 157® a-Glucose + 105° ' 

jS-Methyl glucoside - 33® i3-Glucose+ 22° 

He suggested that the a- and )8-glucoses are homologues of the a- and 
)8-methyl glucosides, and that io^A contain a closed oxygenated ring. 
Direct proof of the glucosidic structure of a- and )8-glucose was 
afforded by their preparation from the corresponding glucosides effected 
by the writer. Both glucosides are resolved into methyl alcohol and 
glucose by appropriate enzymes, and as the enzymes condition the 
hydrolysis more quickly than the glucose which is formed can undergo 
isomeric change, it is possible to determine the nature of the sugar 
which is formed initially. In practice, this is done by preparing a 
clear solution of glucoside and enzyme, allowing hydrolysis to proceed 
for a short time and then observing the optical rotatory power of the 
solution before and after the addition of a drop of ammonia, which 
hastens the rate of the isomeric change, and therefore has the effect 

^ Tanret actually termed the substance represented above as /3-gIucose 7-glucose and 
designated 7-glucose as jS-glucose. The terms have been altered to bring them into agree- 
ment with the nomenclature adopted. 

3 The numerical values are Simon's. 

2 




at 



( . » . 1 I - r 



au: 



cc arDC Lh> 



;elqr 



of Ac 
13 pa- 



ces 

5croo9ec 
5:nn&. Ke 

arc in oquilibriun 



rdlr:^ to tbe «-ar:d 



bnt two 



miitiire of 

[•i-rllO- 



3-S?m that the 
per cecity 3«6s 
: «»4Cv ^«tc txer cecrt. ir: a 



3 per cent, in a 



EviDcarsof 
«-ixr3 to be 

« « « 

airccntfrig to 40 



inatScns Lovry £nos 52 per cent. 



sc.utxxs ot gi^ 



of 
in methyl 



oe m oeoeases as tbe ar:>c>cnt at 
per cent, in the culture EtOH -?- H^CX 



cent, oc 5::§ar present 
tkxi as d-^>JC09e. but o^cssoers that sooe q;aLr,t::y of the 



not, 

in sohi- 

aldehyde 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 19 

Behrend finds that a-glucose can exist in contact with boiling 
ethyl or isobutyl alcoholic solutions, or as the monohydrate in contact 
with aqueous solutions. From the solution in boiling pyridine a 
monopyridine salt of ^-^lucose separates, which on exposure rapidly 
loses pyridine. This forms the most convenient method of preparing 
^-glucose, which, according to Behrend, has m.p. 148-1 50^ [ajn + 207**. 

Glucose as purified by crystallisation from dilute methyl alcohol is 
almost invariably a mixture of the difierent forms. To obtain a 
homogeneous substance the solid is soaked during several days or 
weeks with the solvent, at a constant temperature, until the whole of 
the )8-sugar present has been converted into the a-isomeride (Lowry). 

When the mixture of alcohol and water is sufficiently dilute glucose 
crystallises as hydrate, the transformation from anhydrous glucose to 
hydrate being clearly visible to the eye as the sugar changes from a 
fine powder to a hard cake of glistening crystals. Glucose hydrate 
undoubtedly has the structure of the oxonium hydroxide : — 

XoH 

It is characteristic of the carbohydrates that their optical rotatory 
power is altered, in some cases very considerably, by changes of con- 
centration or of sugar. On the hypothesis that actually there is 
present in solution a mixture of two isomerides in equilibrium, it is 
obvious that the changes in question will disturb the equilibrium in one 
or the other direction. In the case of glucose temperature has hardly 
any influence, but the rotation is gp'eater in more concentrated solutions. 
When these are diluted the rotatory power returns to the lower value 
only slowly, corresponding with the gradual establishment of the new 
equilibrium* The rotation of fructose is very greatly influenced by 
change of temperature. The eflect of salts in altering the rotatory 
power is also in part due to their concentration eflbct tending to alter 
the position of the equilibrium. 

The knowledge of the mutarotation of glucose and fructose, par- 
ticularly when liberated firom sucrose, has been materially advanced by 
Hudson in a series of papers commenced in 1908, some years subse- 
quent to the definite proof of the nature of mutarotation by Armstrong 
and Lowry. 

Hudson draws attention to the recognition by O'SuUivan and 

Tompson in 1890 that the earlier polarimetric measurements of the 

inversion of sucrose by invertase were vitiated by a systematic error 

due to the fact that the glucose formed is initially in a mutarotatory 

2 * 



1 8 CARBOHYDRATES 

of establishing equilibrium almost immediately. As a glucose of high 
initial rotatory power was obtained from a-methyl glucoside, and one 
of low initial rotatory power from the /9-^Iucoside, it is clear that 
a- and /3-glucose correspond respectively to the a- and /9-glucoside. 

It remains to establish the nature of Tanret's y-glucose, which he, 
as well as Simon and Lippmann, r^^rded as a third isomeride, ascrib- 
ing the mutarotation of a- and )9-^lucose to their complete conversion 
into the isomeric aldehyde. 

The change in rotatory power of glucose was shown to be a process 
of reversible isomeric change by Lowry in 1 899. Lowry subsequently 
(1903) concluded that not only are a- and /9-glucose isodynamic com- 
pounds, but that Tanrefs 7-glucose is a mixture in which these two 
compounds are present in equilibrium. 

On concentration of the solution of such an equilibrated mixture, 
a point is reached when one of the constituents crystallises out from 
the saturated liquid. The mixture in solution is consequently thrown 
out of equilibrium ; but as this happens a change takes place spon- 
taneously to restore the equilibrium — /9 passing into a, or vice versd. 
A solution of glucose containing a- and /9-forms can therefore be made 
to yield wholly a- or wholly /8-glucose on concentration, according to 
the temperature at which crystallisation takes place. The o-form, 
which is then the less soluble, is that obtained at lower temperatures ; 
but above 98"*, the /9-form, being the less soluble at the higher tem- 
perature, alone separates. Were the change into aldehyde complete, 
as Simon and Lippmann suggest, it would be impossible by mere 
crystallisation to convert this into o-glucose. 

Tanret (1905) has accepted the conclusion that there are but two 
isomerides of glucose, corresponding to the a- and /9-methyl glucosides, 
and that his supposed third modification is an equilibrated mixture of 
these two forms. He has calculated from the rotatory power [a]o + 110'' 
of the pure a- and [a]o + 19** of the pure /8-form that the proportion in 
which these are in equilibrium is a = 37 per cent., /8« 63 per cent, in a 
ID per cent, solution, and a^^o^ fi^6o per cent in a concentrated 
aqueous solution. 

By means of solubility determinations Lowry finds 52 per cent, of 
the a-form to be present in saturated solutions of glucose in methyl 
alcohol : the proportion of a decreases as the amount of water increases, 
amounting to 40 per cent, in the mixture EtOH + H^O. He does not, 
however, interpret the remaining 60 per cent, of sugar present in solu- 
tion as /9-glucose, but considers that some quantity of the aldehyde 
form is also present 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 19 

Behrend finds that a-glucose can exist in contact with boiling 
ethyl or isobutyl alcoholic solutions, or as the monoh)^rate in contact 
with aqueous solutions. From the solution in boiling pyridine a 
monopyridine salt of ^-glucose separates, which on exposure rapidly 
loses pyridine. This forms the most convenient method of preparing 
^-glucose, which, according to Behrend, has m.p. 148-1 So^ [a]o + 207^ 

Glucose as purified by crystallisation from dilute methyl alcohol is 
almost invariably a mixture of the difierent forms. To obtain a 
homogeneous substance the solid is soaked during several days or 
weeks with the solvent, at a constant temperature, until the whole of 
the )8-$ugar present has been converted into the o-isomeride (Lowry). 

When the mixture of alcohol and water is sufficiently dilute glucose 
crystallises as hydrate, the transformation from anhydrous glucose to 
hydrate being clearly visible to the eye as the sugar changes from a 

-r _ 

fine powder to a hard cake of glistening crystals. Glucose hydrate 
undoubtedly has the structure of the oxonium hydroxide : — 

XoH 

It is characteristic of the carbohydrates that their optical rotatory 
power is altered, in some cases very considerably, by changes of con- 
centration or of sugar. On the hypothesis that actually there is 
present in solution a mixture of two isomerides in equilibrium, it is 
obvious that the changes in question will disturb the equilibrium in one 
or the other direction. In the case of glucose temperature has hardly 
any influence, but the rotation is greater in more concentrated solutions. 
When these are diluted the rotatory power returns to the lower value 
only slowly, corresponding with the gradual establishment of the new 
equilibrium. The rotation of fructose is very greatly influenced by 
change of temperature. The effect of salts in altering the rotatory 
power is also in part due to their concentration effect tending to alter 
the position of the equilibrium. 

The knowledge of the mutarotation of glucose and fructose, par- 
ticularly when liberated firom sucrose, has been materially advanced by 
Hudson in a series of papers commenced in 1908, some years subse- 
quent to the definite proof of the nature of mutarotation by Armstrong 
and Lowry. 

Hudson draws attention to the recognition by O'Sullivan and 

Tompson in 1890 that the earlier polarimetric measurements of the 

inversion of sucrose by invertase were vitiated by a s)^tematic error 

due to the fact that the glucose formed is initially in a mutarotatory 

2 * 



20 



CARBOHYDRATES 



condition. The optical rotation only gives a true measure of the 
amount of inversion after the addition of a drop of alkali. 

Hudson shows that on hydrolysis of sucrose by invertase a-glucose 
having [a]D+ 109', and a-fructose, having [a]D+ I7^ are the initial pro- 
ducts. The fructose very rapidly changes to its stable state, the 
glucose reaches equilibrium more slowly. 



Isomeric Change. 

It remains to discuss very briefly the mechanism of the isomeric 
change ^i^^-glucose: Two rival explanations have been advanced 
which differ really only in one respect : Lowry considers the forma- 
tion of the aldehyde or its hydrate, which involves the opening of the 
ring, to be an intermediate stage in the process ; E. F. Armstrong, 
however, has formulated the change as taking place without any dis- 
ruption of the 7-oxide ring. 

According to Lowrys view, the change is represented by the 
scheme of equilibrium : — ' 

CH(OH)s 

CH.OH 

I 
CH.OH 

^ CH . OH ^ 

I 
CH.OH 

CHj . OH 

Aldehyde hydrate. 

This scheme is intermediate in character between Fischer's former 
view (p. 1 6), that mutarotation is due to hydration and the more recent 
view that mutarotation is due to isomeric change. 

In anhydrous alcohol (which, however, contains traces of water) the 
velocity of the isomeric change a^/9-glucose is small, but it increases 
as water is added and the opportunity for hydration is increased. 
Lowry takes the view that an aqueous solution of glucose contains a 
considerable proportion of aldehyde (open-chain form), in addition to 
a- and )3-glucose (closed-ring forms), whereas in alcoholic solution 
there is little or no aldehyde. 

E. F. Armstrong considers the first stage in the process to be the 
formation, by the addition of water, of the oxonium hydrate, from 
which, by the elimination of water in another manner, an unsaturated 
compound results. It is possible to add the elements of water to this 
unsaturated bond in either of two ways, giving rise to the a- and ^- 





CH, . OH 
iS-Glucose. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 21 



glucoses respectively or their oxonium hydrates. Both isomerides are 
thus simultaneously formed The stereoisomerism is pictured in this 
manner as arising from a difference in the position of the hydrogen 
atom relative to the pentaphane oxygen atom, both attached to the 
terminal carbon atom ^ (in clarendon type). In the following scheme 

HO H H OH 

o- 






I 

? 

Z8t Position a o-Glucose. ^-Linkage before rotation. and Position s 3-Giacose. 

only the carbon skeleton of the pentaphane ring is indicated : — 



c — c 



o 

Otacose. 






OH 



H 



(+H,0) 

► 



OH 



C — C 



(-H,0) 



■J 



I 



OH 




/ 
H 

Unsaturated componnd. 
— = a-Linkage. 

This explanation of the isomeric change has the advantage that it 
is equally applicable to the analogous interconversion of the a- and 
)8-acetochloro glucoses and of the a- and j8-pentacetyl glucoses, neither 

^ The asymmetric carbon atom in Clarendon type has attached to it the four radicles — 
(i) hydrogen, (a )hydroxyl, (3^ the pentaphane oxygen, (4) a carbon atom of the ring. The 
stereoisomerism of a- and jS-glucose is explained above as due to the interchange in the 
relative positions of the hydrogen and the pentaphane oxygen. This relationship is 
awkward to picture in plane formulae; it is therefore more convenient to represent the 
stereoisomerism as due to the interchange in the relative positions of the hydrogen- and 
hydroxyl radicles, as is done for example in the formula on previous pages. Reference 
to a solid model will show that this comes to exactly the same in the end, as the carbon 
atom in engaging with the pentaphane oxygen in its « or ^ position is necessarily rotated, 
so that a projection of the solid tetrahedron viewed in plan will show hydrogen alternately 
on the right and left of hydroxyl. 



22 CARBOHYDRATES 

of which can be explained on the aldehyde hydrate hypothesis ; and 
it also applies to the interconversion of the or and /8-methyl glucosides. 
In this last case Fischer has assumed that an intermediate compound 
of the acetal type is produced and the pentaphane ring is opened — a 
scheme identical with that just described as subsequently advocated 
by Lowry. 

The first product of the action of dry methyl alcohol containing 
I per cent, of hydrogen chloride on glucose at the ordinary temperature 
is a syrup differing from either glucoside. This could not be analysed, 
but was regarded by Fischer as glucose dimethylacetal.^ On heating 
this, it is in part converted into a mixture of the two glucosides in 
unequal quantities. A similar mixture is obtained when either gluco- 
side is heated with the acidified alcohol. 

CH(OMe)a HC--OMe 

CH.OH CH . OH 

CH.OH dH . OH 

CH.OH CH 

CH.OH CH.OH 

CH,.OH CHa.OH 

Glucose dimethylacetal. /B-Methyl glueoeide. 

On the other hand, measurements of the velocity of their trans- 
formation made by Jungius led him to the conclusion that the two 
glucosides are directly convertible into each other and that it is very 
improbable that an acetal is formed. Further, the reversible conver- 
sion of the a- and )3-tetramethyl methyl glucosides takes place at tem- 
peratures of I lo"*-! so"* independently of the nature of the solvent used : 
a result which excludes the intermediate formation of a compound of 
an acetal type. 

The isomeric change of one series of glucose derivatives into the 
other has been formulated in the foregoing on the hypothesis that 
additive oxonium compounds are formed in which the lactonic oxygen 
displays quadrivalency. Indeed no other explanation is applicable to 
all the transformations observed in the glucose series. Such additive 
oxonium compounds are well known to be formed in other cases, such 
as dimethylpyrone (Collie and Tickle). Recently Irvine and Moodie 

^ A compound analogous to the acetal is obtained by the interaction of ethylmercaptan 
and glucose in presence of much hydrochloric add. This is termed glucose ethylmercaptal, 

CH,(OH) . [CH(0H)]4 . CH(SEt),. 

It crystallises well, but cannot be converted into compounds analogous to the glucosides. 




GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 23 

have brought forward evidence to show that tetramethyl ghicose forms 
an oxonium derivative with isopropyl iodide. The presence of the 
etheric groups in the alkylated sugar apparently increases the basicity 
of the 7-oxidic oxygen atom, and so makes the identification of the 
oxonium compound possible. 

From the biological point of view, the fact that glucose exists in 
solution not as a single substance but as an equilibrated mixture of 
stereoisomeric 7-oxidic forms, readily convertible into one another, is 
of fundamental and far-reaching importance. If one of the stereo* 
isomerides is preferentially metabolised in the plant or animal, in the 
course of either synthetic or analytic processes, the possibility of con- 
trolling the equilibrium in the one or other direction, so as to increase 
or limit the supply of this form, places a very delicate directive 
mechanism at the disposal of the oi^nism. This question is un- 
doubtedly one which demands the close attention of physiologists. 



24 C ARBO HYDRATES 



Stereoisomerism of the Aldohezoses. 

A compound represented by the empirical formula, 

CH^OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO, 

containing four asymmetric carbon atoms, should, accotxling to the 
Le Bel-Van't Hoff hypothesis, be capable of existing in sixteen stereo- 
isomeric forms, eight of which would be mirror images of the other 
eight and of equal but opposite rotatory power. 

Thus, corresponding to ordinary dextro-glucose (rf-glucose), there 
should be a laevo-rotatory isomeride (/-glucose) of equal and opposite 
rotatory power, of like configuration but having the dissimilar radicles 
in reversed order.^ In point of fact, when glucose is prepared by arti- 
ficial means from optically inactive material, a mixture in equal pro- 
portions of d- and /-forms is actually obtained. Such a mixture is 
optically inactive — whether the two forms actually combine or merely 
neutralise one another is unknown. 

Although only three aldohexoses occur naturally (glucose, man- 
nose, galactose), fourteen of the sixteen possible isomerides are now 
known. Emil Fischer, to whom we owe the discovery of this remark- 
able series, has not only shown how they may be prepared, but has 
made them in such ways that their structural relationship may be 
regarded as established. His results are summarised in the following 
table : — 

^ The fonnulae assigned to d* and /-glucose are chosen arbitrarily ; that is to say, it 
is assumed that in the <2-form the groups occupy a certain position, whence it follows 
that in the stereoisomeride they are present in the reversed position. For proof of 
the validity of the formulae and the arguments by which they are deduced, the reader is 
referred to Fischer's summary in the Betichte det deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft for 
1894 (P- 3 ^^9) ^^^ ^^ ^^ larger text-books on organic chemistry. A further convention 
is to indicate as belonging to the ^/-series all compounds derived from dextro-glucose by 
simple reactions which leave the stereochemical structure of the molecule unchanged. In 
many instances, as for example (2-fructose and (2-arabinose, the new compound rotates 
polarised light to the left, so that the prefix does not give a correct indication of the sense 
of the rotation. Similarly all compounds derived from laevo-glucose are designated as of 
the /-series though they may be dextro-rotatory. It has been possible to connect the 
amino acids, hydroxy acids and some other optically active substances with dextro-glucose, 
so that the prefix d has a very definite significance in these cases. Unfortunately in other 
cases the prefix merely denotes the sign of the rotation, so that (/-mandelic acid, for ex- 
ample, which is dextro-rotatory, forms a laevo-rotatory nitrile, which is therefore termed 
/-mandelo nitrile. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 25 



TABLE 11. 
ALDOHBZO8E8. 
(a) Mannitol Seriis. 



COH 



COH 



H— 

H— 

HO— 

HO— 



^H 



—OH 

-H 

-H 



HO— 

HO- 

H— 

H— 



CH,OH 

/-MannoBc. 



— H 
— H 
—OH 
—OH 



HO- 



H— 
HO- 
HO- 



COH 

-H 

—OH 

H 

H 



CHjOH 
<{-Manno8e. 



CH,OH 
/-Glucose. 



COH 



COH 



HO- 
H- 

HO- 
H- 



-H 
-OH 
-H 
-OH 



H— 
HO— 

H— 
HO— 



CH,OH 
/-Idoee. 



-OH 



— H 
-OH 



H- 
H- 

Ha 



H 



COH 

-OH 
OH 
-H 
—OH 



CH,OH 



H— 

tHfiH 
/-Guloee. 



COH 

H— I— OH 

HO H 

H— U OH 
H— I— OH 

CH,OH 
<^Gluco6e. 



COH 

-H 

H 

—OH 

H 



HO- 
HO- 



H— 
HO- 



CH,OH 
<i>Gulo6e. 



{b) Dulcitol Series. 



HO— 
H— 
H— 

HO— 



COH 

-H 



—OH 
—OH 
-H 



H- 
HO— 
HO— 

H— 



COH 
-OH 



CH,OH 
/-Galactose. 



— H 
— H 
-OH 



H- 
H- 
H— 
HO- 



COH 
-OH 



COH 



CHjOH 
</-Galacto8e. 

COH 



-OH 



—OH 
-H 



HO- 
HO- 
HO- 



COH 

-H 
-H 
-H . 
-OH 



CHjOH 
/-Talose. 



H- 

CHaOH 
d-Talose. 



COH 



HO- 
HO- 
HO— 
HO- 



— H 
— H 
— H 
— H 



CHsOH 

/•AUose 
unknown. 



-OH 
-OH 



H- 
H- 

H OH 

H OH 

CH,OH 

d'Mloac. 



H— 
HO— 
HO— 
HO— 



-OH 
— H 

-H 

-H 



HO- 
H- 



COH 

-H 
-OH 



H— 
H- 



CH,OH 

/-Altrose 
unknown. 



—OH 
-OH 



CH^H 

cf-Altrose. 



As two closed-chain forms should exist corresponding to each 
of the open chain aldehydic forms, no less a number of isomeric 
"glucoses" is foreseen by theory than 16 + 32 = 48. 

The last four aldohexoses in the table remained unknown to 
Fischer, though he pointed out that they were to be derived theoretic- 
ally from the isomeric riboses, only one of which had at that time been 
prepared. The discovery by Levene and Jacobs that rf-ribose is a 
constituent of nucleic acids, from which it can be obtained in quantity, 
has enabled two of the missing aldoses to be prepared. By the 
application of the cyanohydrin synthesis (p. 37) to ^ribose, Pilose 
and ^-altrose were obtained as syrups both yielding the same phenyl- 
osazone. Their behaviour on oxidation is in agreement with the 
structural formulae assigned to them. 

It is customary to designate the carbon atoms by Greek letters, 
that next to the aldehyde (CHO) group being a, the next fi and so 
on, the terminal primary alcohol (CHj. OH) group being the e-carbon 



26 CARBOHYDRATES 

atom. Irvine proposes to number the carbon atoms i to 6, the 
carbon of the aldehyde (CHO) group being i and that of the primary 
alcohol 6. 

Votocek has suggested the use of the prefix ^' to denote the new 
carbohydrate formed by the interchange of the H and OH groups on 
the a-carbon atom ; thus mannose becomes epiglucose, ribose becomes 
epiarabinose ; the change is spoken of as epimerism and the isomeric 
pair as epimerides. 

Fructose, which contains a keto group attached to the o-carbon atom, 

CH^OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CO . CH,(OH). 

has the same configuration as glucose and mannose apart from this 
o-carbon atom. It is obvious therefore that any treatment which 
involves destruction of the asymmetry of the a-carbon atom will 
occasion the formation of the same compound fix>m all three hexoses. 
Most of the carbohydrates exist in more than one form and show 
mutarotation. The available data are collected in the following table. 
The rotations given are the extremes at present recorded ; probably 
in most cases they apply to products which are not entirely free from 
admixture with the isomeride. It is not always certain whether the 
common crystalline form of the carbohydrate represents the a- or fi^ 

m 

form. Ordinary crystalline maltose is probably /8-maltose (p. 63) and 
according to Hudson crystalline fructose belongs to the )9-series and 
not to the orseries as supposed hitherto. In cases where the be- 
haviour towards enzymes cannot be utilized to indicate the a or fi 
structure of a carbohydrate it is difficult to assign the correct prefix 
except on the ground of analogy. Hudson proposes to name the 
sugars solely on account of their optical rotatory power and he has 
suggested the following rule, viz,, that the subtraction of the rotation 
of the )9-form from that of the a-form shall give a positive difference 
for all sugars which are genetically related to ^glucose, that is those 
which are commonly written with the prefix d. On the contrary for 
all sugars related to /-glucose this difference shall be n^^tive. Hud- 
son has calculated the rotations of the unknown forms of the carbo- 
hydrates on this basis and his figures are adopted provisionally in the 
following table. The matter cannot yet be regarded as settled and the 
calculation of the optical activity of a compound with five asym- 
metric carbon atoms is hardly justified by the present knowledge of 
the relation between optical activity and structure. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 27 



TABLE III. 



Carbohydrate. 



^/-Glucose . 
<2-Manno6e . 
(2-Galactoee . 
<f-Fruct06e . 
/-Arabinose . 
i^-XyloBe ^ . 
^Rhamnose • 
<^Malt06e 
^/-Lactose hydrate 
^Melibiose . 



a>Fonii« 


/i*FonB« 


+ no** 


+ ao** 


+ 76*** 


- 14' 


+ 140** 


+ 53* 


+ If 


-X4C^ 


+ 76* 


+ i84» 


+ lOOP 


- 8<>« 


- r 


+ 32** 


+ i66<>« 


+ xig*» 


+ 860 


+ 35*^ 


+ 171 


+ 134'* 



Equilibrated miztore. 



+ 52*5° 

8i*» 

93" 
104** 

9" 

137"* 
55-3" 
143" 



+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 



Calculated values. 



According to Anderson the direction and degree of optical rotation 
of the carbohydrates is determined by the configuration of the or and 
)8-carbon atoms. The four possible configurations with their corres- 
ponding rotations are : — 



CHO 
H— l—OH 
HO-I— H 

Strongly 
dextro-rotatory. 



CHO 



CHO 



CHO 



HO—I—H 
H— I— OH 

Strongly 
laevo-rotatory. 



HO— 
HO— 



— H 

— H 



H— I— OH 
H— j—OH 



Both slightly 
deztro- or laevo-rotatory. 



The data for the criticism of this theory are at present insufficient ; 
the theory also ignores the rotatory powers of these substances in their 
pure a- and )3-forms, having reference only to the figure in an equi- 
librated mixture. 



^Hudson following Rosanoff considers natural xylose to be genetically related to 
{^glucose and not to /-glucose as supposed by Fischer. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE. 

Glucose, the other aldoses and the ketoses in general show a great 
tendency to become further oxidised ; this is evidenced by their activity 
as reducing agents. They reduce alkaline copper solutions on warming 
forming red cuprous oxide, likewise ammoniacal silver solutions forming 
a metallic mirror. When heated with alkali, a sugar solution colours 
at first yellow, subsequently brown and finally decomposes : a variety 
of substances, including lactic acid and other hydroxy acids, are formed. 
Valuable analytical methods for the estimation of glucose are based on 
the reaction with copper salts in alkaline solution, but the precise changes 
which the sugar undergoes under these conditions are not completely 
understood. 

When carbohydrates are kept with alkali hydroxide at 37'' the 
optical rotation of the solution decreases and the acidity increases. 
Sodium hydroxide exerts the greatest action, sodium carbonate being 
considerably weaker ; ammonia of the same strength is almost without 
action. 

The complexity of the molecule of glucose makes it obvious that a 
variety of products will be formed on decompositioa Thus, on electro- 
lysis in dilute sulphuric acid, Lob finds that formaldehyde, ^arabinose 
and other products result; Lob and Pulvermacher have identified 
formaldehyde, pentoses, acetylcarbinol, acetylmethylcarbinol and poly- 
hydroxyacids after treatment of glucose solutions with lead or sodium 
hydroxides, even in solutions which have an alkalinity corresponding 
to that of the body. They consider these processes as typifying the 
reverse of the sugar synthesis from formaldehyde (Chapter VI.). Fruc- 
tose undergoes similar changes in solution under the influence of ultra^ 
violet light, but glucose is much less susceptible to attack. 

Nef, in a very elaborate study of the action of alkalis on carbohy- 
drates based on much experimental work, comes to an exactly opposite 
conclusion to Lob and Pulvermacher. According to him pentose and 
formaldehyde are never obtained from hexose on decomposition by 

alkali, the normal products being either diose and tetrose or two mole- 

28 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 29 

cules of triose (glyceraldehyde). Nef considers that hexoses are never 
formed S3mthetically from pentose and formaldehyde ; the S3nithesis of 
carbohydrate from formaldehyde never goes further than hexose nor is 
there any condensation of hydroxymethylene molecules to inositol. 

The subject is too complex to repay further discussion. The for- 
mation of the saccharins and saccharinic acids is also outside the range 
of this monograph. 

Particularly characteristic is the reaction of the sugars with excess 
of phenyl hydrazine on heating in dilute acetic acid solution. An 
orange-yellow insoluble phenyl osazone is formed, which serves to 
characterise glucose even when present only in very small quantities, 
though not to distinguish it from some of the isomeric hexoses which 
give the same or closely related phenyl osazones. The use of phenyl 
hydrazine possesses further a historical interest, as in the hands of 
Emil Fischer it served as one of the chief aids in the elucidation of the 
chemistry of the carbohydrates. 

Glucose reacts < with phenyl hydrazine in acid solution, acetic acid 
being usually employed, in two stagea In the first, which > takes place 
in cold solution, a phenyl hydrazone is formed : — 

CgHijO, + CjHb . NH . NH, = CsHuOb , CH : N . NH . C,Hb + H,0 

This is a colourless compound, soluble in water, existing in two 
modifications, one or other of which is obtained according to the method 
of preparation. 

Skraup's ^-phenyl hydrazone, formed by shaking glucose with 
phenyl hydrazine in alcoholic solution, crystallises in needles, m.p, 
106-107°, and has an optical rotation in aqueous solution of [ajn - 2* 
changing to - 50^ Fischer's a-isomeride, formed in alcoholic acetic 
acid solution, crystallises in leaflets, m.p. iS9-i6o*, [a]^ - 70° changing 
to - 50°, Behrend has shown Skraup's ^-isomeride to be in reality a 
compound of phenyl hydrazine (i mol.) with 2 molecules of the j8- 
hydrazone. This hydrazone also forms an additive compound with 
pyridine which, on treatment with alcohol, yields glucose /8-phenyl hy- 
drazone, m.p. 140-141°, [a]o - 5*5°. Behrend has advanced evidence to 
show that this is a true hydrazone, 

CHj(OH) . [CH(OH)]4 . CH : N . NHPh, 

whereas Fischer's glucose a-phenyl hydrazone is a hydrazide : — 

A ° ' 

CHj{0H) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH(OH)], . CH . NH . NHPh 

It should be capable of existing in two stereoisomeric forms (cp. p. 1 5). 
The phenyl hydrazones of glucose and most of the other sugars, 



30 



CARBOHYDRATES 



being easily soluble, are not adapted for characterising the parent sugars. 
An exception is afforded by mannose, which forms an almost insoluble 
phenyl hydrazone and can thus be very readily detected. This com- 
pound affords a striking illustration of the influence exercised by the 
configuration of the molecule on its physical properties. Sparingly 
soluble phenyl hydrazones are also formed by the methyl pentoses. 

Asymmetrically disubstituted hydrazines of the type, NHj . NR . 
C0H5, such as methylphenyl, benzylphenyl or diphenyl h)^razines, also 
react with the sugars, and some of these hydrazones are sparingly soluble 
and are characteristic of a particular sugar. Many of them are in- 
cluded in the following Table IV. In some instances two forms of the 
hydrazone have been described. 

Thus the methylphenyl hydrazone is characteristic of galactose and 
the diphenyl hydrazone of arabinose. The influence of the position of 
the OH groups on the fhysical properties is even more marked in the 
case of the dihydrazones formed with diphenylmethane dimethyl dihy- 
drazine CH2[C0H4NMe . NH,], (Braun). Arabinose, rhamnose, mannose 
and galactose react readily with this hydrazine forming almost insoluble 
hydrazones, whereas correspond!!^ hydrazones are not obtained from 
glucose, xylose and the disaccharides. 

TABLE IV. 



MELTING-POINTS OF SUGAR HYDRAZONES AND OSAZONES. 





Arabinoie. 


Olocose. 


Mannose. 


Galactose. 


Maltose. 


Lactose. 


HydraMonss. 














Phenyl hydrazone 


151^-153" 


/xx5"-ix6«\ 
\X44»-I46»/ 


I86«.l88° 


158° 


— 


— 


^-Bromophenyl hydrazone . 


I50« 


«47^ 


2o8**-axo" 


168° 


— . 


— 


a-Methylphenyl hydrazone . 
a-Ethylphenyl hydrazone 


161'' 


xao" 


'78! 


180° 




— 


153" 


— 


isg"* 


169°  


— 


— 


a-Amylphenyl hydrazone 


X20® 


ia8« . 


J34'* 


116° 


.^_ 


123° 


a-Allylphenvl hydrazone 
a-Benzoylpnenyl hydrazone . 


145" 


155" 


142° 


I5f 




132° 


170® 


165^ 


x65« 


154° 


— 


I28<» 


i Diphenyl hydrazone 


ai8« 


161° 


155° 


^5f 


— 


— 


/9-Naphthyl hydrazone . 


141° 


^"* 


I57« 


ley** 


176** 


203'' 


Osazonss, 














Phenyl osazone . 


x6o« 


ao8° 


208*' 


193° 


206° 


200° 


/-Bromophenyl osazone 
^•Nitrophenyl osazone . 


ig6°.aoo" 


222° 


— 




198° 


— 


~^" 


257** 


' 


""■" 


261° 


258° 



To prepare the phenyl osazone glucose is heated with a considerable 
excess of phenyl hydrazine ^ (3-4 mols.) and acetic acid, the vessel being 

^ It is important that the phenyl hydrazine should be almost colourless and free from 
oxidation products. 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 



31 



V 



immersed in rapidly boiling water for an hour or more, when the in- 
soluble osazone separates : it is best • purified by crystallisation from a 
dilute solution of pyridine. The excess of phenyl hydrazine acts as 
an oxidising agent towards the phenyl hydrazone, converting the 
penultimate — CH(OH) group into — CO, and being itself reduced to 
aniline and ammonia. The CO group so formed interacts with a 
further molecule of phenyl hydrazine to form the osazone : — 



CHO 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Aldose 



CH : N . NHPh 

I 
CH(OH) 






H(OH) 
H(OH) 
H(OH) 
H^OH) 



•^ Hydrasone -^ 



CH : N . NHPh 

do 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Oxidation product 



NHPh 



CH : N . NHPh 

C:N. 

I 
CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Osaxone 



Glucose, mannose and fructose yield the same phenyl osazone, 
since the asymmetry of the a-carbon atom is destroyed in its formation. 
The osazones of the different sugars are as a class very similar in pro- 
perties, those formed by the disaccharides being distinguished by their 
greater solubility in boiling water. The melting-points of the osazones 
depend very largely on the rate of heating and on the method of puri- 
fication adopted, and too much dependence is not to be placed on them 
in identifying unknown sugars. Fischer, for example, states that care- 
fully purified glucosazone heated rapidly in a narrow capillary tube be- 
gins to melt at 208° (corrected), and completely melts at this temperature 
with decomposition if the source of heat be withdrawn. When heating 
is continued at the same rate the thermometer rises to 213'' before the 
glucosazone completely melts. When the heating is slower the sub- 
stance b^ins to sinter and melt at 195°. In the case of the disacchar- 
ides, where the purification of the osazone is more difficult, the 
determination of the exact melting-point is even less reliable. 

The asymmetrically disubstituted hydrazines do not form osazones 
with glucose on account of their being unable to act as oxidising agents. 
Fructose is more easily attacked by them, probably in consequence of 
the presence of the CH2(0H) . CO group, and yields a methylphenyl 
osazone. 

It is often a matter of considerable difficulty to obtain a carbohyd- 
rate in a pure state from solutions which may also contain inorganic 
salts or nitrogenous substances. One of the methods adopted is to 
isolate the phenyl hydrazone, purify this by crj^'stallisation, and decom- 



32 CARBOHYDRATES 

pose it into sugar and phenyl hydrazine. Fischer originally used fuming 
hydrochloric acid to effect the decomposition. Benzaldehyde was sub- 
stituted for this by Herzfeld ; the phenyl hydrazone is boiled in water 
with a slight excess of benzaldehyde, and the phenyl hydrazine removed 
from solution as insoluble benzaldehyde phenyl hydrazone, 

CeHuG, : N . NHPh + C,H, . CHO = C,HuO, + C^HfiU : N . NHPh 

This method was repeatedly adopted with success by Fischer, but it 
gives less satisfactory results with the disubstituted hydrazones, in which 
case formaldehyde may with advantage be substituted for benzaldehyde, 
as suggested by Ruff and Ollendorf. The hydrazone is dissolved in 
dilute formaldehyde and heated at the temperature of the water bath, 
CeHijOg : N . NRR' + HCHO = QH^O^ + H . CH : N . NRR'. The 
excess of formaldehyde is removed and the pure sugar solution concen- 
trated in vacuum. 

Fuming hydrochloric acid acts on the osazone in the same manner 
as it does on the hydrazone, eliminating in this instance both hydrazine 
groups to form an osone : — 

CH ; N . NHPh HCl, H,0 CHO HCl . H^ . NHPh 

C:N.NHPh HCL>H,0 CO 



HC1,>H,0 CO HCl . HjN . NHPh 

H(0H) CH(OH) 



r . 

CH(OH) CH(0H) 

CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CH,(0H) CH,(0H) 

Phenyl osazone. Osone. 

Glucose, mannoseiand fructose, which form the same phenyl osazone, 
likewise form the same osone. These osones are colourless syrups ; 
they act as strong reducing agents, and combine directly with phenyl 
hydrazine or with disubstituted phenyl hydrazines forming osazones. 
The osones combine also with (7-phenylene diamine. They are not 
fermentable. On reduction glucosone is converted into fructose. This 
is the only method available of regenerating a sugar from the phenyl 
osazone. When the sugar originally used was an aldose the correspond- 
ing ketose results. The method is of great historical interest, as by its 
aid Fischer established the nature of the synthetical a-acrose. The 
osazones of the disaccharides are hydrolysed by acids to hexose, 
hexosone and phenylhydrazine — 

CeHjA • O • CeHio04(NjHPh), + 2HCI + sHfi 
= CeHiaOe + CgH^oOe + 2NH, . NHPh . HCl 
Hexose. Hexosone. 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 33 

— and Fischer's hydrochloric acid method is thus not available for the 
conversion into osone. Since, however, the osazones of the disac- 
charides are soluble in boiling water, it is possible to remove the phenyl 
hydrazine residues by means of benzaldehyde (Fischer and Armstrong), 
and so obtain the osones — 

C^HuOg . O . CHa . [CH . OH], . CO . CHO 

These osones are similar to glucosone in properties : they are hydro- 
lysed by enzymes in the same way as the parent disaccharides. 



Reduction. 

When reduced with sodium amalgam, glucose and its isomerides 
form the corresponding hexahydric alcohols, two hydrogen atoms being 
added to the hexose. Sorbitol is formed from glucose, mannitol 
from mannose, and dulcitol from galactose. Fructose yields a mixture 
of the two alcohols, sorbitol and mannitol (see p. 57). These alcohols 
have the following figuration formulae : — 

CH, . OH CH, . OH CH, . OH 

HC.OH HO.CH HC.OH 

HO.CH HO.CH HO.CH 

HC .OH HC . OH HO . CH 

HC .OH HC . OH HC . OH 

CH, . OH CH, . OH CH, . OH 

Sorbitol* Mannitol. Dulcitol. 

All three alcohols occur in plants, mannitol being widely distributed. 
In the fungi and some other orders mannitol exceeds glucose in quan- 
tity, or even replaces it. It has a sweet taste. None of the alcohols 
are fermented by yeasts ; mannitol, however, is a product of some 
bacterial fermentations^ and is attacked by many moulds and bacteria. 
Dulcitol, no doubt on account of the difference in configuration, is- in 
general far more resistant to bacterial attack. 



34 CARBOHYDRATES 

Oxidation. 

Glucose on oxidation gives rise to three acids containing the same 
number of carbon atoms ; two of these acids are monobasic, the third 
is dibasic Their structure is as follows : — 

CHO CO,H CHO CO,H 

(CH.0H)4 (CH.0H)4 (CH.0H)4 (CH.OH)^ 

CHjOH CHjOH COjH CO,H 

Glucose. Qluconic acid. Glucuronic acid. Saccharic acid. 

In gluconic acid the aldehyde group of glucose is oxidised to carboxyl : 
it is conveniently prepared by the action of bromine on glucose. 
Gluconic acid in solution very readily passes over into a y-lactone, the 
change, which is accompanied by an alteration in rotatory power, being 
a reversible one. The reaction is not complete, but continues until an 
equilibrium between acid and lactone is reached. Mannose and other 
aldoses form mannonic acid and similar acids corresponding to gluconic 
acid. 

As pointed out by Hudson these 7-lactones, like the aldose sugars 
and their glucosidic derivatives, all of which have a 7-oxide structure 
exhibit strong optical rotatory power, whereas the corresponding 
alcohols and acids, which are open-chain compounds, are but slightly 
active. The rotatory power is evidently connected with the 7-oxide 
constitution and the sign of the rotation must depend on the position 
•of the ring, which is in turn dependent on the position of the hydroxyl 
group attached to the 7-carbon atom before the ring was produced. 
According to Hudson dextro-rotatory lactones have the ring on one 
side of the structure, laevo-rotatory rings on the other side as is^ illus- 
trated by the lactones of gluconic and galactonic acids. 





I 

HCOH 

CHjOH CHjOH 

Gluconic lactone. Galactonic lactone. 

[a]D + 68°. Wd - 10' f. 

The theory has been extended to the determination of the constitu- 
tion of lactones of unknown structure. It does not apply to the aldoses 
themselves or to the glucosides. 

The rate of action of bromine water on the aldoses is influenced 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 35 

considerably by their configuration : galactose, for example, is much 
more rapidly oxidised than glucose. (VotocSk and NSmecek.) 

An important property of gluconic and similar acids, and one which 
has been of the utmost value in effecting the synthesis of the sugars, 
is their behaviour on heating with quinoline or pyridine. It is well 
known that in most substances containing an asymmetric carbon atom, 
rearrangement takes place, when they are heated, so as to form the 
corresponding antimere mixed with the original substance. When 
gluconic acid is heated with quinoline or pyridine at 130**-! 50** it is 
pgrtially converted into mannonic acid. The rearrangement is appar- 
ently restricted to the groups attached to the a-carbon atom, as is the 
case in the transformation of glucose to mannose by alkalis. It is 
reversible, mannonic acid being converted into gluconic acid : — 

COjH COjH 

H.C.OH _^ HO.C.H 



(CH . OH), ^ (CH . OH), 

CHjOH CH,0H 

({•Gluconic acid. i-Mannonic acicL 

Similarly, rf-galactonic and rf-talonic acid are mutually interconvertible. 

Saccharic acid is formed by the action of nitric acid on glucose ; 
it forms a sparingly soluble acid potassium salt, which serves as a 
test for glucose. Saccharic acid is also produced from sucrose, raffinose, 
trehalose, dextrin and starch, all of which contain glucose. On the 
other hand, mucic acid — the corresponding oxidation product ot 
galactose — is produced by the action of nitric acid on galactose, 
dulcitol, lactose, melibiose and the gums. 

Glucuronic Acid-^ — Physiologically the most interesting oxidation 
product of glucose is glucuronic acid, which is frequently found in the 
urine, combined with a variety of substances, forming compounds of 
glucosidic nature. It has been found in the sugar beet combined with 
a resin acid. Normally glucose is rapidly oxidised in the animal 
organism to carbon dioxide and water. When certain substances 
such as chloral or camphor, which are oxidised in the body only with 
difficulty, are brought into the system the organism has the power of 
combining them with glucose to form glucosides. In such compounds 
one end of the glucose molecule is shielded from attack, but oxidation 
takes place at the other extremity of the molecule, and a glucuronic 
acid derivative is formed. They are excreted in the urine. The 
faculty of removing injurious substances from circulation in combination 

^ Also written Glycuronic acid. 
3 * 



36 CARBOHYDRATES 

with glucose seems to be common to both the animal and the vq^etable 
kii^dom, and the glucosides in the plant may be compared to the 
glucuronic add derivatives in the animal The glucuronates bdiave 
like glucosides, and form glucuronic acid when hydrolysed by mineral 
acids. The glucuronate most commonly employed for the preparation 
of the acid is euxanthic acid, a substance obtained in India from the 
urine of cows which have been fed with mango leaves. Euxanthic 
acid is very readOy hydrolysed by dilute acids and breaks down into 
euxanthon and glucuronic acid — 

C JH,/)u = CaH804 + C.HmO, • 

A number of substances when introduced into the organism are 
excreted in the urine as " paired " glucuronic acid compounds. The 
most important are included in the foUowii^ list : — 

iaoprop3rl alcohol 
methylpropsi carbinol 
mtltbyuusxyi carliin<rf 
tertiary botyl alcohol 
tertiary amyl akohol 
pinacone 

As the formula indicates, glucuronic acid is the first reduction product 
of saccharic add, and it was obtained in this way by Fischer and Piloty 
from saccharic add lactone. Glucuronic add forms a lactone which 
crystallises well The paired adds are laevo-rotatory. 

Since aniline dyes have almost entirely displaced euxanthic acid 
from the market the latter has become very scarce. A convenient 
source of glucuronic acid has been found in the menthol compound 
obtained in the urine of rabbits after administration of menthol The 
urine is extracted with ether and ammonia added, when the ammonium 
salt separates. (Neuberg.) 

According to Neuberg glucuronic add or an isomeride is produced 
in small quantity when glucose is oxidised by nitric acid for the pre- 
paration of saccharic acid. 



chloral 


bcfuene 


turpentine oil 


bntylchloral 


mtrobenxene 




broimal 


aniline 


bomeol 


dichloracetone 


phenol 


menthol 




resotcinol 


pinene 




thymol 


antip3^rine 




Or and /B-naphUiol 


etc. 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 37 



Synthesis and Degnulation. 

The methods devised in the laboratory for the formation of carbo- 
hydrates containing a greater or lesser number of carbon atoms than 
six in the chain are of interest 

The aldoses combine directly with hydrogen cyanide forming 
nitriles ; these, when hydrolysed, give rise to acids containing one 
carbon atom more than the original carbohydrate. 

CbHhOb . CHO + HCN = CJtinO. . CH(OH) . CN -► 
CbHuOb . CH(OH) . CO,H -► C,H„0| . CH(OH) . CHO 

The lactones of these acids, when reduced with sodium amalgam, 
yield the corresponding aldoses with one carbon atom more than the 
original carbohydrate. 

In this manner glucose can be obtained from arabinose, glucoheptose 
from glucose. The process has been continued by Fischer as far as 
the aldononoses in the case of glucose and mannose ; Philippe has 
prepared glucodecose. It would be possible by such a method to 
advance step by step from formaldehyde to the higher sugars, but the 
operation would demand the expenditure of very large quantities of 
material 

The C3^nohydrin synthesis, however, is not in reality so simple 
as just pictured, inasmuch as usually two stereoisomeric nitriles are 
formed simultaneously. Arabinose gives both glucose and mannose, 
glucose yields two glucoheptoses. On the basis of the aldehydic 
formula for glucose a new asymmetric carbon atom is created in the 
nitrile, and, according to the ordinary rules, two forms will be pro- 
duced unless the synthesis is asymmetric in character. Mannose and 
fructose afford the only instances at present recorded in which only 
one nitrile is formed. 

An alternative view of the synthesis, based on the closed-ring 
formula, considers the two nitriles as formed simultaneously from a- and 
iS-glucoses by a process involving first the rupture of the 7-oxide ring, 
and secondly the addition of hydrogen cyanide. The presence of o- 
and )9-glucose in unequal proportions and the probable difference in 
the rate of formation of the addition product in the two cases will 
explain the formation of the isomeric nitriles in unequal proportions. 
The various stages of the operation are formulated below in the case 
of the a-derivative — 



38 



CARBOHYDRATES 



HO— C— H 
HCOH \ CN HCOH \^jj 



HOCH / H - HOCH yOH 
HC HC 

HC .OH HC . OH 

CH, .OH CH, . Ol 



orGlncose 



-^ a-Gluoo6e nitrile 



CO,H 

HOCH 

/ 
HCOH 

Hydrolysts I 
^ HOCH 

HCOH 

HO 

:h. 



OH 



ch,oh 

^•^ a-Giacohq)tODic add. 

cho 

HO.CH 
HC.OH 

HO.CH 
HC.OH 

HC.OH 

I 
CH, . OH 

Lactone of a-Gluooheptonic acid. o^Glucoheptose, aldehyde fonnula. 




Reduction 



OH 



The degradation of a sugar, />., the conversion into one with fewer 
carbon atoms, has been studied by three experimental methods. In 
that of Wohl the oxime of glucose is heated with concentrated sodium 
hydroxide and converted into the nitrile of gluconic acid, from which, 
on further heating, hydrogen cyanide is eliminated and a pentose — rf- 
arabinose — formed. The following scheme shows the changes : — 



CHO 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

I 
CH(OH) 



CH5(0H) 
Glucose. 



CH : N . OH 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 



I 



;h(oh) 



CH(OH) 



CH,(0H) 
Oxime. 



CN + H,0 

CH(OH) 

I 



^ I 



CH(OH) 



CH(OH) 



t 



d 



H(OH) 



H^OH) 

Nitrile. 



HCN 

CHO 

I 



^ I 



CH(OH) 



CH(OH) 
CH(OH) 



CH,(OH) 
Arabinose. 



In practice it is preferable to heat the oxime with acetic anhydride 
and a grain of zinc chloride : a vigorous reaction ensues, and the pent- 
acetate of gluconic acid nitrile is formed from which hydrogen cya nide 
is eliminated by treatment with ammoniacal silver oxide. 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 39 



The alternative method due to Ruff makes use of Fenton's mode 
of oxidation with hydrogen peroxide and ferrous salts. The aldose 
is first converted into aldonic acid, the calcium salt of which is sub- 
jected to oxidation, with the result that the carboxyl group is eliminated 
and the pentose formed. 



CHO 
CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

I 
CH(OH) 

I 
CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Aldohexose. 



CO,H 

CH(OH) 

I 
CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 



COj + H,0 

CHO 

CH(OH) 






H(OH) 



H{OH) 



tH,(OH) 
Aldonic add. 



CH(OH) 

CHj(OH) 
Aldopentose. 



Neuberg has made use of an electrolytic method : the aldose is 
converted into the corresponding acid, the copper salt of which is then 
electrolysed between platinum electrodes. Gluconic acid is in this 
manner converted into ^arabinose and all the steps in the complete 
degradation to formaldehyde may be traversed The process has been 
carried out with a number of sugars including melibiose, from which 
a sugar with eleven carbon atoms has been obtained. 

Either of these methods is equally applicable to the conversion of 
a pentose into a tetrose, and by them it would be possible to pass from 
glucose to formaldehyde. 

According to Guebert mercuric gluconate when heated undergoes 
intramolecular oxidation forming ^arabinose in satisfactory quantity. 
Tollens and Boddener find, however, that this method is not applicable 
to the degradation of arabinose. 



40 



CARBOHYDRATES 



Interconversion of Glucose* Fructose and Mannose. 

Glucose, fructose and mannose pass over into one another in aqueous 
solution in presence of alkalis. This most important transformation was 
first observed by Lobiy de Bruyn and Van Ekenstein ; it takes place 
slowly at ordinary temperatures, quickly and with much decomposition 
at higher temperatures. Starting from glucose, the optical rotation is 
observed to fall to about o"* ; considerably more fructose than mannose 
is formed in the final product The change was rightly explained by 
Wohl as due to conversion into the enolic (unsaturated) form common 
to all three carbohydrates : — 



CHO 

HCOH 

hoCh 

HCOH 

HCOH 

I 
CH,(OH) 

Qlucose. 



CHO 

HOCH 

1 


CH,(OH) 

CO 
HOCH 
HCOH 
HCOH 

(!:H,(0H) 


HOCH 
HCOH 
HCOH 
CH,(OH) 



Mannose. 



Frnctose. 



CH(OH) 

li 

C.OH 

HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 

Enolic form. 



The sugar originally present is slowly transformed into enol ; this 
is reconverted into all three of the possible hexoses. It is to be sup- 
posed that the formation of enol from each one of the hexoses and the 
reverse changes all take place with different velocities ; the reaction is 
further complicated by secondary stages. 

For example, fructose can give rise to a second enolic form, and 
this will occasion the formation of other isomerides, e.g.^ glutose : — 



CH,(OH) 

CO 

HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH (OH) 
Fructose. 



CHt(OH) 

COH 

li 
COH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 
Second Enolic form. 



CH,(OH) 
CH(OH) 



t. 



:o 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 
Glutose. 



which Lobiy de Bruyn has isolated as a r^^ular product of the trans- 
formation of glucose. The change is obviously exceedingly complicated . 
Prolonged action of the alkali or action at a high temperature leads to 
the formation of hydroxy acids. In pure aqueous solution glucose can 
be kept for years without alteration. This proves that there can be 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 41 

no enolic fonn present in the equilibrated mixture of a- and )9-glucose 
as is sometimes suggested. 

The guanidine compounds of glucose, fructose and mannose show 
changes of rotatoiy power in aqueous solution due to the interconver- 
sion of the three hexoses brought about by the guanidine. The 
changes are veiy similar to those caused by alkalis, but fewer side 
reactions take place in the case of guanidine. 

Since lactic acid and various hydroxy acids result from the action 
of alkalis on glucose (p. 28), the action of ammonia might cause the 
formation of alanine or other amino acids. Windaus and Knoop, in 
investigating this point, find that the strongly dissociated zinc hydroxide 
ammonia acts on glucose even in the cold, producing methyl glyoxal- 
ine, a closed-ring compound containing nitrogen. Amino acids are 
not formed. To explain this transformation, it is assumed that glyceric 
aldehyde is first formed, which passes into methyl glyoxal ; this in its 
turn is acted upon by ammonia and formaldehyde to give methyl 
glyoxaline : — 

CHj.C.NHv 
CH, . CO . CHO + aNH, + HCHO - 1 1 ^CH 

CH.N^ 

Windaus finds that the reaction is not confined to glucose, but that the 
same methyl glyoxaline is yielded by mannose, fructose, sorbose, 
arabinose, xylose and rhamnose, or by the disaccharide lactose. 



42 CARBOHYDRATES 



d-Glucosamine. 

Glucosamine, or aminoglucose, is of interest as being the first well- 
defined carbohydrate compound isolated from an animal tissue (Ledder- 
hose, 1878). It is obtained by boiling the shells of lobsters, particularly 
the claws, with concentrated hydrodiloric acid. The glucosamine 
hydrochloride so formed is a colourless crystalline compound. Lobster 
shell consists of carbonate of lime and a substance termed chitin, which 
yields acetic acid and glucosamine on hydrolysis. Chitin is stated by 
Offer to be a monoacetyl diglucosamine ; quite recently Irvine has 
established the identity of the chitins derived from various invertebrate 
animal structures. He considers chitin to contain acetylamino glucose 
and amino glucose residues in the proportion of three to one, in j^free- 
ment with the formula (CgoH5QOi9N4)„. 

Glucosamine was obtained by Winterstein from fungus cellulose ; 
indeed chitin seems to be the most important cell-wall material of the 
fungi. Glucosamine is a constituent of the mucins and mucoids. It 
has the formula : — 

H H OH H 
CH,OH . C . C . C . C . CHO 
OH OH H NH, 

which is more properly written in the pentaphane ring form. 

Glucosamine is prepared from the hydrochloride by decomposing 
it with diethylamine (Breuer) or sodium methoxide (Lobry de Bruyn). 
It derives special interest from the fact that it may be r^arded as a 
link between the carbohydrates and the a-hydroxyamino acids. The 
synthesis of glucosamine, by Fischer and Leuchs, which at the same 
time established its constitution, thus becomes of enhanced importance. 
By the combination of ^arabinose and ammonium cyanide, or of d- 
arabinoseimine with hydrogen cyanide, ^/-glucosaminic acid was obtained 
and its lactone reduced to glucosamine. Glucosamine forms a penta- 
acetyl derivative and also an oxime, semi-carbazone and phenyl 
hydrazone, but it cannot be converted into glucose, though it gives 
glucose phenyl osazone when heated with phenyl hydrazine. Nitrous 
acid converts it into a compound (C^Hi^jOg), formerly regarded as a 
sugar, and termed chitose: this forms chitonic acid when oxidised. 
Glucosamine is often regarded as a derivative of chitose, and termed 
chitosamine. 

Chitose was shown by Fischer and Andreae to be a hydrated 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 43 

furfurane derivative rather than a true sugar, formed by simultaneous 
elimination of the amino group and anhydride formation. It has the 
formula :~ 

HO . CH— CH . OH 

<CH,OH).CH CH.CHO 

\/ 

O 

Isomeric with glucosamine is isoglucosamine, obtained by Fischer by 
reducing phenyl glucosazone. This has the formula : — 

CHj(OH) . [CH(OH)], . CO . CH, . NH, 

Lobry de Bruyn has shown that glucosamine in aqueous solution 
changes to a substance which can be obtained more readily by the 
action of alcoholic ammonia on fructose. This substance yields a 
pyrazine derivative on oxidation (Stolte), and its formation from 
glucosamine would appear to take place according to the equation : — 

2CBH„OflN + O « C^Hj^jOgN, + 3H,0 

The product, for which the name " fructosazine " is suggested, has been 
shown to be 2, 5 - ditetrahydroxy butylpyrazine. 

But little is at present known of the amino derivatives of other 
carbohydrates. 

An isomeride of glucosamine has been obtained by Fischer by the 
following series of operations. /8-Pentacetyl glucose, when treated 
with anhydrous liquid hydrogen bromide, forms dibromo-triacetyl 
glucose which reacts with methyl alcohol to give triacetyl /8-methyl 
glucoside bromohydrin. This is converted by ammonia at the ordinary 
temperature into amino /8-methyI glucoside from which the amino 
sugar is obtained on hydrolysis. The new compound reduces Fehling's 
solution but differs from glucosamine in a number of ways, the osazone 
which it yields with phenyl-hydrazine being different from phenyl- 
glucosazone. Judging from the production of an anhydro glucose from 
dibromo-triacetyl glucose (p. 12) the amino group in the new isomeride 
is attached to the carbon atom in the /8-position thus : — 

H H NHjH 
CHjOH . C . C . C . C . CHO 
OH OH H OH 

though the possibility of its replacing the primary alcohol group in the 
exposition must not be overlooked. 

Irvine has prepared an isomeric amino methyl glucoside from 
glucosamine and converted it into glucose, thus finally establishing 
the relationship between glucose and glucosamine. The conversion 
takes place through the following reactions: ^-glucosamine hydro- 



44 CARBOHYDRATES 

chloride-^bromotriacetyl glucosamine hydrobromide-^triacetyl amino 
methyl glucoside hydrobn>mide-»amino methyl gluooside hydrochloride. 
This last compound, like other derivatives of glucosamine, reacts 
abnormally with nitrous add and does not yield methyl glucoside. 
On methylation by the silver oxide method dimethyl amino methyl 
glucoside is obtained from which the substituted amino group is expelled 
by heating with barium hydroxide. The product is further methylated 
and converted into tetramethyl methyl glucoside from which ^^lucose 
results on removal of the methyl groups 



Phosphoric Esters. 

The discovery of the rdle played by hexose phosphate in fermenta- 
tion lends considerable interest to the phosphoric esters of carbohydrates. 

The hexose phosphate C0HioO4(PO4Hs)2 from glucose, mannose or 
fructose (see p. 74) is not precipitated by ammoniacal magnesium 
citrate mixture but the lead salt is precipitated by lead acetate. It 
can be purified by decomposition by hydrc^en sulphide and reprecipita- 
tion. With phenyl hydrazine an osazone is formed, one molecule of 
phosphoric acid being eliminated, which has the composition : — 

(H,POJC.H,(OH),(NHPh), 

The sodium, phenyl hydrazine and aniline salts have been characterised. 

Hexose phosphoric acid contains an active carboxyl group and two 
phosphoric acid groups, one of the latter being probably attached to 
the carbon atom adjacent to the carboxyl group since it is split off in 
the formation of the osazone. 

Neuberg has described phosphoric esters of glucose and sucrose 
prepared by the action of phosphorus oxychloride on the carbohydrates 
in presence of calcium carbonate or hydroxide. These have the com- 
position C^HuOg . O . POgCa and CuHaOio . O . POgCa. Neither of 
them is fermented by yeast On the other hand, the corresponding 
calcium fructose phosphate obtained by partly hydrolysing sucrose 
phosphate with dilute hydrochloric acid is stated to be readily fermented 
by yeast It reduces Fehling's solution. 



THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE 45 

Tannins. 

The tannins have long been r^arded as glucosides, Strecker in 
1852 being the first to show that they contained glucose. His formula 
CjyHjjOu for tannin corresponded with three molecules of gallic acid 
to one of glucose. Other observers have disputed the presence of 
glucose in tannin which often figures simply as digallic acid in the 
older textbooks. Statements as to the amount of glucose obtained 
from tannin on hydrolysis vary very widely : this is due to the great 
difficulty experienced both in purifying the tannin and in separating 
the glucose formed Fischer and Freudenbei^ (191 2) show that care- 
fully purified tannin yields somewhat more than 8 per cent of glucose 
on hydrolysis. This proportion is too small for tannin to be a glucoside 
of the ordinary type, but it is suggested by Fischer and Freudenberg 
that it is an acyl derivative of glucose analogous to pentacetylglucose 
or pentabenzoylglucose. A pentadigalloylglucose, 

CH,(0X) . CH(OX) . CH . CH(OX) . CH(OX) . CH(OX) 

I o — 1 

where 

X « - CO. CaH^OH), . O . CO. C,H,(OH), 

should contain 10*6 per cent, of glucose: It has the high molecular 
weight 170a This formula is in agreement with what is known as 
to the composition, optical activity, small acidity and the behaviour of 
tannin on hydrolysis. 

Proof, which is little short of absolute, of the correctness of this 
hypothesis is afforded by the synthesis by Fischer and Freudenberg 
of acyl derivatives of glucose closely analogous to natural tannin. On 
shaking glucose with a chloroform solution of trimethylcarbonato 
galloylchloride in presence of quinoline an acyl derivative is formed 
from which,! on cautioUs hydrolysis with alkali, the methylcarbonato 
groups can be removed so that pentagalloylglucose is formed. The 
synthetic compound has all the properties of the tannins. Other 
phenolcarboxylic acids may be used for the condensation and methyl- 
glucoside or glycerol may be substituted for glucose. The way is thus 
opened for the synthesis of a variety of products of high molecular 
weight, amounting in the extreme case of derivatives of the disac- 
charides to several thousands. It is quite possible that such compounds 
may be present in animals. 



CHAPTER III. 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES. 



The general properties of the monosaccharides have been fully dealt 
with in the foregoing and exemplified in the case of glucose. In 
dealing with the remaining hexoses it is only necessary to recapitulate 
briefly their more important properties and any salient points of 
difference from glucose. 

Glucose and fructose are the only two of the monosaccharides which 
occur naturally as such. The others are found in nature as poly- 
merides, or in the form of alcohols, and are prepared by hydrolysis or 
oxidation. 

Fructose and sorbose are types of the ketohexoses, a group which 
has been much less investigated than the aldohexoses. Both fructose 
and sorbose have the ketonic oxygen attached to the o-carbon atom, 
but a number of other isomerides are possible in which the keto group 
is situated elsewhere in the molecule. The ketohexoses do not yield 
acids containing the same number of carbon atoms on oxidation, but 
the molecule breaks into two at the ketonic group. 



TABLE v.— THE MONOSACCHARIDES. 



Trxosbs. 




Tetkosbs. 


Aldose 


Glyceric aldehyde 


Aldoses 


d' and /-Eryfhrose 


Keiose 


Dioxyacetone 




d- and /-Threose 


Pentoses. 


Mbthylpbmtosbs. 


Aldous 


d- and /-Arabinose 


Aldoses 


Rhamnose 




d- and /-Xylose 




Fucose, Rhodeose 




^Riboee 




, Chinovose 




/-L3rxose 








Hexoses. 






Aldoses 


Manniiol series 




DulHiol series 




d- and /-Glucose 




d- and /-Galactose 




d- and /-Mannose 




</- and /-Talose 

<^Altrose 

J-Allose 


Ketoses 


Fructose 
Sorbose 




Tagatose 


Heptosbs. 


OCTOSBS. 


NONOSES. 


Decosb. 


Mannoheptose 


Mannooctose 


Mannononose 




Glucoheptose 


Glucooctose 


Glucononose 


Glucodecose 


•Galactoheptose 


Galactooctose 







46 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 47 

Mannose. 

^Mannose^ is widely distributed in nature in the form of an- 
hydride-like condensation products termed mannosans which are con- 
verted into mannose when hydrolysed by acids; it does not occur 
in more simple form. A convenient source for its preparation is the 
vegetable ivory nut Mannose is the true aldehyde of mannitol, and 
may be obtained from it by oxidation. It is of interest that it was 
first prepared by Fischer and Hirschberger in this manner, and only 
subsequently identified as a natural product. It is very similar to 
^glucose in its general properties, exhibits muta-rotation, and forms 
the same phenyl osazone as glucose and fructose. Mannose is alto- 
gether remarkable in forming a sparingly soluble phenyl hydrazone, 
which enables it to be very easily identified. This hydrazone is pre- 
cipitated within a few minutes when phenyl hydrazine is added to a 
solution of mannose. 

Mannose forms an additive compound with hydrogen cyanide 
which, on hydrolysis, yields mannoheptonic acid. Apparently one 
only of the two possible isomerides is formed. The mannoheptose 
obtained from this is very similar to mannose, and forms a sparingly 
soluble phenyl hydrazone. On reduction it yields the alcohol CyHigO^ 
identical with the natural perseitol. 

Galactose. 

^-Galactose occurs as a constituent of milk sugar and raffinose, also 
in many gums and seaweeds as the polymeric form galactan ; its pre- 
sence in the form of a galactoside is rare, being confined to the 
saponins, xanthorhamnin and a few other natural glucosides. Lippmann 
records the appearance of galactose as a crystalline efflorescence re- 
sembling hoar frost on ivy berries following a sharp frost, the first after 
a late dry autumn. Both isomeric forms of galactose occur naturally : 
Winterstein found <i/-galactose in Chagnal gum, Tollens obtained it 
from Japanese Nori. It resembles glucose in properties ; characteristic 
is the formation of mucic acid on oxidation with nitric acid, and this 
may be used for its identification. By the action of alkalis it is trans- 
formed into ^-talose and ^-tagatose. It is fermented by some yeasts, 
but not by all those which ferment glucose ; a fact which has been 
taken as indicating that a special galacto-zymase is required for the 
fermentation. 

a-Methyl galactoside is not hydrolysed by enzymes; ^-methyl 

^For the configuration formula, see Table II., p. 25. 



48 CARBOHYDRATES 

galactoside is attacked, like milk sugar, by the lactase of kephir, by 
the lactase present in some yeasts, and by a lactase present in an 
aqueous extract of almonds (see Chapter V.). 

Under abnormal conditions galactose is formed in the sugar beet, 
and appears in combination with sucrose as the trisaccharide, raffinose. 
The quantity of rafiinose is increased abnormally by disturbances of 
growth, such as those occasioned by sudden frost. Under these con- 
ditions the galactans are supposed to undergo hydrolysis and form 
galactose. Apparently the plant, when confronted with galactose, 
utilises it first to form a disaccharide, imelibiose, composed of glucose 
and galactose, and then makes use of the glucose half in this di- 
saccharide, according to its fixed habit, by combining it with fructose, 
with the result that a compound carbohydrate containing all three 
simple hexoses is formed. 

Galactose is the sugar of the brain whence it was isolated and 
described under the name cerebrose by Thudichum. It is a con- 
stituent of the cerebrosides known as phrenosin and kerasin. 

Fructose. 

^-Fructose or Laevulose, discovered by Dubrunfaut in 1847, occurs 
together with glucose in the juices of fruits, etc., the mixture being 
often termed fruit sugar or invert sugar. Combined with glucose it 
occurs as cane sugar, rafiinose, etc. It is a constituent of alliin, the 
glucoside of garlic and of some saponins. The folysaccharide inulin 
yields fructose alone when hydrolysed. Fructose is a ketohexose of the 
following constitution : — 



CH, . OH 

HOC CH 



i 



HOCH 






HCOH 




Qjj — « --, - CH.CH,0H 



CHjOH 
Fischer formula. y-Oxide formula. 

Fructose crystallises less easily than glucose, and its derivatives 
are also difficult to crystallise. It is much sweeter than glucose. It 
exhibits muta-rotation, and, like glucose, exists in solution presumably 
as an equilibrated mixture of stereoisomeric forms. It is remarkable 
for the very large change produced in the specific rotatory power by 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 49 

changes of temperature. The rotatory power becomes less negative 
as the temperature is increased, and at 87*3° C. it is equal and opposite 
to that of glucose. 

Fructose shows a number of characteristic reactions. Hydrogen 
bromide interacts with fructose in ethereal solution to form bromo- 

CH : C(CH,Br)v 

methy Ifurfuraldehyde I ^O, a substance which crystallises in 

golden yellow rhombic prisms; the ethereal liquid is coloured an 
intense purple red (Fenton and Gostling). A ^-oxy-7-methylfurfural- 
dehyde is produced on heating concentrated solutions of fructose under 
pressure, preferably with oxalic acid. 

On prolonged boiling with dilute mineral acids laevulinic acid, 
CH3 • CO . CHg . CHa . COaH, is formed tc^ether with formic acid and 
humus substances. 

When oxidised by means of mercuric oxide fructose forms 
glycollic acid, CHa(OH) . COjH, and trihydroxybutyric acid, 
CHgOH . (CH . OH), . COjH. It is not acted upon by bromine water 
of low concentration : aldoses can. be distinguished from ketoses by 
means of this reaction. Mannitol and sorbitol are formed on reduction 
with sodium amalgam. 

By the action of methyl alcohol and hydrogen chloride on fructose 
a syrup is obtained which probably represents a mixture of methyl 
fructosides. This syrup is partially hydrolysed by yeast extract, but, 
inasmuch as Pottevin ihas shown that it is not hydrolysed by 5. octo- 
sporusy Mucor mucedo and other ferments which attack cane sugar and 
maltose, the hydrolysis is presumably caused by an enzyme other 
than invertase or maltase«(see Chapter IV.). 

Fructose, like glucose, forms an additive compound with hydrogen 
cyanide which yields fructose carboxylic acid on hydrolysis ; this, when 
boiled with hydriodic acid, is converted into methyl butylacetic acid, 
C^Hg . CHMe . COjH. This reaction and the behaviour on oxidation 
establish the formula of fructose. 

Fructose forms the same osazone as glucose; it also forms 
osazones with some disubstituted phenyl hydrazines, the primary 
CHaCOH) group being more easily oxidised, by these than the 
secondary CH(OH) group in glucose. The methyl phenylosazone is 
characteristic of fructose. 

Glucose and its isomerides combine with acetone in presence of 
hydrogen chloride forming mono- and diacetone derivatives of a gluco- 
sidic nature since they no longer reduce Fehling's solution. Enzymes 
are entirely without action on them. The acetone compounds of 

4 



• • • • 

• • • «• • 

• • • • • • 

« « • • • « « 



50 



CARBOHYDRATES 



fructose have been investigated by Irvine who has proved the existence 
of two isomeric fructose monoacetones 

yO . CH, CH, . OH 

c-o 



CMe. 





HC 



CHjOH 
A 



CH,OH 
B 



having probably the formulae A and B, each of which will exist in a and 
fi forms. From A a diacetone is formed, but B is not prone to further 

condensation : this is consistent with the view that the acetone \CMe^ 

residue replaces the hydrogen atom of two adjacent hydroxyl groups 
which need not, however, be on the same side of the formula as re- 
presented on a plane surface. 

The expressions cts and trans are used by Irvine to distinguish be- 
tween the linkage between hydroxyl groups on the same or on opposite 
$ides of the molecule. In fructose diacetone both types are present 



CH,OH . CH 




ycnfi 

O . H q{ 



CMei 

CIS 



trans 



It is not therefore surprising that the two acetone groups are 
eliminated at different rates on hydrol}^is, fructose cts monoacetone 
being formed as an intermediate product. In triacetone mannitol there 
is evidence that the acetone groups are in order tranSt trans, as and di- 
and monoacetone compounds are formed in turn on cautious hydrolysis. 
The most stable acetone residue is attached to a terminal primary 
alcohol group. 

It is probable that glucose and fructose play distinct parts in meta* 
bolism. Brown and Morris have shown that glucose is mainly con- 
•cemed in respiration ; fructose appears to take part more particularly 
in the elaboration of tissue since it is far less stable than glucose. 

In this connection the experiments of Lindet are of particular in^ 
terest. Dealing more particularly with yeasts and moulds he adduces 
3trong experimental evidence to prove that fructose is specially con* 



w w 



^ ^ 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 51 

cerned in tissue formation, glucose being more readily used for fermen- 
tation and respiratioa Yeasts and moulds, for equal weights of sugar 
consumed, show greater growth in fructose and they consume glucose 
preferentially from invert sugar. 

It is stated also that fructose is sometimes found to be assimilated 
by diabetics when glucose is inadmissible. 



Sorbose. 

Sorbose was discovered by Pelouze in 1852 and was isolated from 
the juice of mountain ash berries which had been exposed to the air for 
many months. These berries contain the alcohol sorbitol, which, under 
the influence of an oxidising organism, shown by Emmerling to be 
identical with the bacterium xylinum of Adrian Brown, is .oxidised to 
sorbose. The brilliant researches of Bertrand have given a complete 
explanation of the transformation, and have rendered the preparation 
of sorbose a relatively simple matter. Sorbose is a ketose having the 
formula : — 

CHjOH 

m 

CO 
HOCH 

HCOH 

HOCH 

CH«OH 

It has a marked crystallising power, is not fermentable, and generally 
behaves as fructose ; on reduction it yields sorbitol. Lobry de Bmyn 
has shown that under the influence of alkali Sorbose is converted 
into ^-gulos^ ^idose and ^galactose, and so affords a connecting4iqk 
between hexoses of the mannitol and dulcitol series. This reaction is 
of importance, as the direct synthesis of a hexose of the dulcitol series 
has not been achieved. 



4* 



52 CARBOHYDRATES 



The Pentoses QHinOj.. 



10^6* 



Two pentoses, Aarabinose and /-xylose/ are widely distributed in the 
vegetable kingdom as polysaccharides of high molecular weight, the so- 
called pentosans ; they also occur in complex glucosides, but are never 
found as the simple sugars. Xylose is found in straw, oat hulls and in 
most woods, arabinose in gums ; it is conveniently prepared from cherry 
gum or gum arabic. The prefix / denotes that they are related stereo- 
chemically to the laevoglucose series ; actually they are both dextro-rota- 
tory. The ^i^isomeride of arabinose can be obtained synthetically from 
glucose by the degradation methods indicated in the previous chapter. 
Recently it has been found naturally as a constituent of the glucoside 
barbaloin, and described under the name aloinose (L6ger). 

In the animal kingdom pentoses are a constituent of the nucleopro- 
teins and nucleic acids. The nature of this pentose has been a subject of 
controversy ; it is now r^arded as ^ribose. Nucleic acid contains a 
glucoside guanosin (Levene and Jacobs) which is hydrolysed to guanine 
and ^-ribose, and is identical with vemin (Schulze) found in lupins and 
also in molasses (Andrlik). 

Pentose appears as an abnormal product in urine in the rare disease 
pentosuria — according to Neuberg this is inactive ^-arabinose (see 
Garrod, Inborn Errors of Metabolism). 

But little is known of the mechanism of the formation of pentoses 
in plants ; they may be formed in the same manner as the hexoses, but 
independently of these, or they may be degradation products of the 
hexoses (cp. p. 28). Xylose and arabinose serve as nutrient 1 to 
yeast and bacteria, but higher plants have no power of utilising them. 

The pentosans are resistant towards alkali and require prolonged 
heating with mineral acids to effect hydrolysis. They are comparable 
with starch and cellulose and contain as a rule both C^ and C^ carbo- 
hydrates. No enzymes are known as yet which hydrolyse them ; in- 
asmuch as they are present essentially as skeletal, and not as food 
products in the plants, it is to be expected that they will be outside 
the range of the ordinary plant enzymes. 

Their origin and function in plants has been studied recently by 

^ See footnote p. 27. 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 



53 



Ravenna, who concludes that the simple sugars more than the complex 
carbohydrates exert a preponderating influence on their formation. 
They can act as a reserve material when the plant has exhausted the 
more readily utilisable food stuffs. In leaves the pentosans increase 
in amount during the day, decrease during the night They increase 
when the leaves are supplied with glucose, diminish when the action 
of the chlorophyll is prevented and carbohydrate nutriment is 
absent 

The eight possible aldopentoses are given in the following table, 
together with their configuration formulae. The table also contains the 
remaining lower members of the group of monosaccharides, viz.^ 4 te- 
troses and 2 trioses. 



CHO 
HOH 
HOH 
HOH 

CH,OH 

l-Ribote. 



CHO 
H OH 
HO H 
HO H 

CHjOH 

l-Arabinose. 



CHO 
HOH 
HOH 

CH,OH 

Z-Erythrose. 







TABLE VI. 






Aldopentoses. 


CHO 




CHO 


H 


OH 




H 


OH 


H 


OH 




HO 


H 


H 


OH 




H 


OH 


1 


iHjOH 




CH,OH 

• 


if-Ribose. 




l-Xyloie. 


CHO 




• 

CHO 


H 


OH 




HO 


H 


H 


OH 




H 


OH 


HO 


H 




H |0H 


CH^OH 




CH,OH 


/-Lyxose 




(f-Arabinose. 


Unknown. 








Aldotbtroses. 


CHO 




CHO 


H 


OH 




H OH 


H 


OH 




HO H 


( 


CH.OH 




CHjOH 


<f-Eiythrose. 




if-Threose 
Unknown. 




Aldotrxosbs. 


CHO 


CHO 


HCOH 


HOCH 


CHjOH 


CHjOH 






d- and / 


■Glyccros 


te. 



CHO 



HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


CH,OH 


cf-Xylose. 


CHO 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH,OH 


cf-Lyzose. 


CHO 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH,OH 


W\ 


rhreose. 



Although belonging to the /-series, the natural pentoses are in 
reality closely related to the natural hexoses. As the formulse below 
show, the arrangement of the groups on the upper four carbon atoms 
is the same in each case in galactose and arabinose, and the same also 
in glucose as it is in xylose : — 



54 CARBOHYDRATES 



HC( 



CHO 

ioH 

H0( 

:oH 

.OH 



>CH 



HC< 



CH,< 



CHO 

HCOH 

HOCH 

1 


CHO 
HCOH 
HOCH 
HOCH 

CHgOH 


CHO 
HCOH 

HOCH 

HOCH 

HCOH 

CH,OH 
^{-Galactose. 


HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,OH 
<f-GlucoBe. 


^•ArabinoBe. 



/-Xylose. 

In this connection, it is not without interest that some polysaccharides 
yield both xylose and glucose on hydrolysis, whilst arabinose and ga- 
lactose occur together in many gums. 

When the cyanohydrin synthesis is applied to natural Aarabinose a 
mixture of two nitriles is obtained, and the corresponding acids, when 
reduced, give rise to /-glucose and /-mannose ; similarly, /-xylose can 
be converted into /-g^lose and /-idose. ^i^Glucose, when degraded by 
the methods of Ruff or Wohl, gives ^a^rabinose ; ^-galactose forms 
rf-lyxose. The carbon atom which requires to be eliminated in order 
that glucose may give rise to the natural /-xylose, a transformation 
which there is reason to think may take place in the plant, is not the 
one affected by the processes described, but is situated at the extreme 
end of the chain. No chemical means of effecting this change has as 
yet been discovered. 

Arabinose and xylose show the usual aldose reactions. They are 
not fermented by yeasts. Arabinose forms a characteristic, almost 
insoluble, diphenyl hydrazone. Xylose is best recognised by conver- 
sion into xylonic acid, and isolation of this as the cadmium bromide 
double salt 

Pentoses are determined quantitatively by distillation with hydro- 
chloric acid when furfuraldehyde is formed. This is coupled with phloro- 
glucinol, and the condensation product isolated and weighed. The 
colour reactions obtained on heating with orcinol or phloroglucinol and 
hydrochloric acid are very characteristic, and frequently used for detect- 
ing the pentoses. 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 



S5 



The Methyl Pentoses. 

Several representatives of this class of carbohydrates have been 
discovered latterly in plants. In them, one of the hydrogen groups of 
the primary alcohol is replaced by methyl. They show most of the 
reactions characteristic of the pentoses, but form methyl furfuraldehyde 
on distillation with acids. 

Their biochemical significance is not yet understood ; they are not 
fermented by yeasts. The configuration of most of them has been 
established by the ordinary methods with the exception of the relative 
positions of the groups attached to the methylated carbon atom which 
remain uncertain. 

The configuration formulae of the methyl pentoses, so far as at 
present known, are given in the following table : — 



CHO 



CHO 



CHO 



CHO 



H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH, 


CH, 


CH, 


CH, 


Rhamnose. 


Unknown. 


Epirhamnose. 


laorhodeose. 


CHO 


CHO 


CHO 


CHO 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH, 


CH. 


CH« 


CH, 


Fu 


cose. 


Rh< 


[)deose. 


Epir] 


bodeose. 


Unl 


mown. 



Rhamnose CgHjjOg is a constituent of many glucosides, the best 
known of which are quercitrin and xanthorhamnin, the colouring 
matter of Persian berries. It occurs particularly in combination with 
flavone derivatives. 

Rhamnose crystallises with a molecule of water the hydrate having 
the composition CgHi40g ; in consequence it was regarded at one time 
as belonging to the hexahydric alcohols and termed " isodulcitol ". 

Rhamnose forms a phenyl osazone and other derivatives similar to 
those of glucose. It exists in a and fi forms which exhibit muta-rotation. 
By the cyanohydrin reaction two rhamnohexonic acids are formed, one 
of which yields mucic acid when oxidised. The synthesis has been 
extended to the preparation of rhamnohexose and rhamnoheptose. 
Methyl rhamnoside is not hydrolysed by enzymes. 



S6 CARBOHYDRATES 

In view of the relationship in configuration of rhamnose to /-oian- 
nose or /-^ulose it must be r^arded as /-rhamnose ; it is the methyl 
derivative of the unknown /-lyxose. 

Epi- or isarhamnose was obtained by Fischer by heating rhamnonic 
acid with pyridine and reduction of the isorhamnonic acid with sodium 
amalgam. It is the optical antipode of isorhodeose one of the products 
of hydrolysis of purgic acid, the amorphous constituent of theglucoside 
convolvulin (Voto&k). The crystalline constituent of this glucoside, con- 
volvulinic acid, is hydrolysed to glucose, rhamnose and rhodeose. This 
latter is the optical antipode olfucose which as the polymeride fucosan is a 
component of the cell wall of many seaweeds. Votocek has converted 
rhodeose into epirhodeose in the ordinary manner. These compounds 
and their derivatives have been fully described. The configuration of 
chinovose, known only in the glucoside chinovin, has not yet been 
established ; other methyl pentoses have been obtained by the hydrolysis 
of glucosides, which may prove to be new compounds. 

Apiose. 

Mention may be made of an altogether abnormal sugar, termed 
apiose, on account of its presence in the glucoside apiin. This con- 
tains a branched chain of carbon atoms, having the formula : — 

CHjOH\ 

^C(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO 
CHjOH/ 

It is not fermentable, bromine oxidises it to apionic acid When 
reduced by hydrogen iodide and phosphorus, £ravaleric acid is obtained. 
Apiin contains the disaccharide glucoapiose; when hydrolysed by 
dilute mineral acids apiose and glucoapigenin are formed. 

Digitoxose and Digitalose. 

These are obtained on hydrolysis of the corresponding glucosides 
of digitalis. Kiliani has shown digitoxose CQH12O4 to be a reduced 
methyl pentose having the following formula: — 

CH, . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH, . CHO 

Digitalose C7H14O5 is perhaps a reduced methyl hexose. Both com- 
pounds require further investigation. 



THE HEXOSES AND PENTOSES 57 



The Carbohydrate Alcohols. 

Several ofthe carbohydrate alcohols are widely distributed in plants. 
They crystallise well and are soluble in water. On cautious oxidation 
they give in turn a reducing sugar, monobasic acid and dibasic acid 
They are not fermentable though attacked by a variety of bacteria and 
moulds. 

OH OH 
ErythritoL—CHJS^li) . C — C . CH^OH) is found in many 

H H 

algse and mosses, particularly Roccella tinctoria, where it is present as 
erythrin CjoHnOio, a diorsellinate of erythritol ; it is optically inactive 
and has a sweet taste. 

OH OH OH 
Adani^L—CH^OH) . C — C — C . CH,(OH) corresponds 

H H H 

to /-ribose from which it is obtained on reduction ; it is the only natur- 
ally occurring pentose alcohol, and is found* in Adonis vemalis. 

The hexose alcohols are widely distributed in plants where they 
act as reserve materials. Their properties have been already described 

(p. 33). 

A-Mannitol has been found in manna, in the sap of the larch, 

etc., in leaves, in fruits, and particularly in fungi where it exceeds glucose 

in quantity or even replaces it A glucoside clavicepsin present in the 

ergot of rye yields glucose and mannitol when hydrolysed (Marino- 

Zirco and Pasquero). Mannitol is optically inactive in water, but 

becomes dextro-rotatory on the addition of borax, the mixture being 

acid. In alkaline solution it becomes laevo-rotatory. 

dSorbitol is present in ripe mountain ash berries from which it 
can be prepared without difficulty and in the fruits of most of the 
Rosacea; it is probably also present in the leaves. 

Arlditol is also present in mountain ash berries. 

A-Duldtol occars particularly among the Scropkulariace<B, 

Two heptose alcohols, C^HigOj, are known, e.g.^ perseitol, occurring 
in Persea gratissima^ and volemitol, discovered in Lactarius volemus^ 
and since identified in the rhizomes of some species of primula. 
Perseitol is the alcohol correspondii^ to mannoheptose. 



6o 



CARBOHYDRATES 



TABLE VIII. (conHnued). 



Sugar. 



Components. 



RoUtory Power. 



Typg I. 
Mannotriose 
Rhamninose 



Ramno 



Tfpg 2. 

inoae 
Gentianose 
Melicitose 



Typ$ a. 
Stachyoae 



Trxsaccharxdbs. 

Glucose + galactose + galactose 
Glucose + rhamnose + rhamnoee 



Galactose + glucose + fructose 
Glucose + glucose + fructose 
Glucose + glucose + fructose 

Tbtkasaccharidb. 



+ 167' 
- 41' 



+ 104'^ 
+ 33* 
+ 88-5*= 



Fructose + glucose + galactose + galactose { + 148' 



The disaccharides of type i form sparingly soluble phenyl osazones, 
which are difficult to purify, similar to one another and do not show 
sharp melting-points as they decompose at the melting-point ; more- 
over, both melting-point and crystalline form are greatly altered by 
small quantities of impurities. The hydrazones, even those prepared 
from asymmetrically disubstituted phenyl hydrazines, are too soluble, 
as a rule, to be used for the isolation of disaccharides from aqueous 
solutions. 

The difficulty attending research in this group lies in the fact that 
no really characteristic derivatives of the disaccharides, by means of 
which they can be isolated and identified with certainty, are known, 
and partly for this reason but little progress has been made in the 
direction of their synthesis. 

Maltose, lactose and melibiose, which reduce Fehling's solution, 
form hydrazones and osazones with phenyl hydrazine and combine 
with hydrogen cyanide, contain, like glucose, an aldehyde group or its 
equivalent Since they all show muta-rotation, and exist in two 
modifications, there is no doubt that, like glucose, they possess a closed- 
ring structure rather than a free aldehyde group. In solution they 
exist as an equilibrated mixture of dynamic isomerides. Both halves 
of the molecule thus possess a 7-oxidic structure, one section only re- 
taining the aldehyde group potentially functional. 

Interest in the configuration of the disaccharides centres round three 
main points : — 

(i) The nature of the component hexoses. 

(2) Whether they represent a- or ^-glucosides. 

(3) Which hydroxyl group is concerned in the attachment of the 

two hexose residues ? 



THE DISACCHARIDES 6i 

The solution of the first of these problems is a « simple matter. The 
second question has been answered in two ways : firstly, by studying 
the behaviour of the sugar towards maltase and emulsin — if hydrolysed 
by the former it is an o-glucoside, if by the latter a /9-glucoside ; secondly, 
by studying the optical behaviour of the glucose immediately produced, 
on hydrolysing the sugar with an enzyme, towards a drop of alkali — 
downward muta-rotation classes it as o^lucose, upward muta-rotation 
indicates the presence of /9-^lucose. The third question has not yet 
been satisfactorily solved ; so far it has been only possible to show for 
maltose and lactose that certain groups are not« concerned in the 
junction. 

Assuming the primary alcohol group to be concerned in the attach- 
ment of the two hexose residues four isomeric diglucoses with reducing 
properties are possible. The attachment of the two glucoses may be 
either a or /9, and the free aldose group will exist in a and fi modifica- 
tions. Maltose or lactose in solution represent, like glucose, an 
equilibrated mixture of two isomerides : the solid disaccharides cor- 
respond to more or less pure single substances. Three further isomerides 
are conceivable of the non-reducing diglucose according as two o- 
glucoses, two /9-glucoses or an a- and a /9-glucose are linked together. 
These three disaccharides will be single substances either as solid or 
in solution, and they should crystallise more freely than maltose. 

In the following pages the individual disaccharides are briefly dealt 
with. The problems connected with their hydrolysis and synthesis are 
deferred to Chapter VI. 

Sucrose. 

Sucrose or cane sugar, industrially the most icaportant.of the sugars, 
is widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, where it functions almost 
entirely as a reserve material. In contrast to most of the sugars, it 
crystallises exceedingly well : this is almost certainly due to the fact 
that a mixture of isomerides is not present in solution. It is very 
soluble in water, and has a much sweeter taste than glucose, but is 
not so sweet as invert sugar. 

Cane sugar does not reduce Fehling's solution or exhibit muta-rota- 
tion, and it lacks both aldehydic and ketonic properties. Very charac- 
teristic is the behaviour towards ^ mineral acids which hydrolyse it to 
glucose and fructose. Sucrose is dextro-rotatory, but, since fructose 
is more laevo-rotatory than glucose is dextro-rotatory, the products of 
hydrolysis rotate polarised light in the opposite sense to cane sugar. 
The process is hence termed inversion, and the product invert sugar. 



62 CARBOHYDRATES 

The like change is brought about by an enzyme present in yeasts, 
moulds, in many plants, also in bees and other animals, and termed 
invertase or sucrase. Cane sugar is fermented by yeasts only after 
previous inversion with the invertase of the yeast Accordingly it is 
not fermented by yeasts which do not contain invertase, e,g.^ S. 
octosporus. 

Sucrose forms no compounds with phenyl hydrazine, and is stable 
towards alkali : this is in marked contrast to the behaviour of the 
aldoses and ketoses. Sucrose will withstand heating in alkaline solution 
at temperatures up to 1 30"* without appreciable decomposition. It also 
does not give rise to glucosidic derivatives. It contains eight hydroxyl 
groups, as evidenced by the formation of an octa-acetate and an octa- 
methyl derivative. 

It is not easy to ascribe a constitutional formula to cane sugar 
which is entirely satisfactory. Fischer's formula, which is a modifica« 
tion of the earlier one of Tollens, pictures it at one and the same time 
as a glucoside and a fructoside. The glucose and fructose units are 
joined so as to destroy both aldehyde and ketone groups and give a 
neutral product : 




CHa(OH) . C . (CH . OH). . CH . CH,(0H) Fructose residue 



</ 



/ 
CH . (CH . OH), . CH . CH(OH) . CH,(0H) Glucose residue 



The observations of O'Sullivan and Tompson showed that a glucose 
.. of high positive rotatory power is at first produced on hydrolysis, /.^., 
cane sugar is a derivative of o-glucose. Yet, inasmuch as it is not 
attacked by maltase, which acts on all simple a-glucosides, it cannot 
well belong to their class. Moreover, since Fottevin has shown that 
the simple methyl fructoside is not hydrolysed by the enzymes which 
attack sucrose, it must be supposed that cane sugar is not a simple 
fructoside. The extraordinary instability of sucrose in presence of 
acids also differs markedly from the behaviour of the simple glucosides. 
Invertase is remarkably active in hydrolysing sucrose. Its action seems 
to be controlled and inhibited by both glucose and fructose, and ap- 
parently the enzyme is so constituted that it can adapt itself to both 
sections of the biose. The question is further discussed in Chapter VI. 



THE DISACCHARIDES 63 

Trehalose 

Trehalose, which occurs widely distributed in fungi, is composed of 
two glucose molecules fused together, so that both aldehydic groups 
have disappeared: — 



o 



CHJOH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHv 
CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CR/ 

' ! 

This structure is indicated by the &ct that it does not reduce Fehling's 
solution, or form a phenyl osazone or exhibit muta-rotatioa It is 
not affected by the enzymes maltase, invertase, emulsin or diastase, but 
is hydrolysed by a special enzyme named trehalase, which is ccmtained 
in certain fungi and in many species of yeast Trehalase is conveni- 
ently obtained from AspergiUus niger. According to Winterstein 
trehalose is only hydrolysed by adds with considerable difficulty, and 
contrasts markedly in this respect with sucrose. 

Apparently trehalose replaces sucrose in those plants (fungi) which 
contain no chlorophyll and do not manufacture starch. The quantity 
of trehalose is a maximum just before the formation of spores. When 
the fungi are picked the trehalose is rapidly converted into mannitol, 
being hydrolysed by its enzyme to glucose, which is in some way 
then reduced. To obtain it, the fungi must be extracted with boiling 
solvents, so as to kill the enzyme, within two or three hours after 
gathering. 

Maltose. 

A sugar was first isolated from the products of hydrolysis of starch 
by De Saussure in 1 8 1 9, but it was not until 1 847 that this new sugar 
was further examined by Dubrunfaut and named maltose. This dis- 
covery seems to have lapsed into comparative oblivion until the sugar 
was rediscovered by O'Sullivan in 1 872. Maltose is prepared by the 
action of diastase on starch, the only other product of the change being 
dextria It crystallises in minute needles, has a high dextro-rotatory 
power and exhibits upward muta-rotation, i,e,^ the rotatory power when 
the disaccharide is first dissolved is smaller than the equilibrium value. 

Maltose reduces Fehling's solution, forms a phenyl osazone, and 
shows many other of the properties of glucose. 

When hydrolysed by acids two molecules of glucose are formed. 
It is very much more resistant to acid hydrolysis than cane sugar. 

The enzymes diastase, invertase, lactase and emulsin are without 



64 CARBOHYDRATES 

action, maltase alone of all the known enzymes being able to effect 
hydrolysis. Maltose is fermented only by those yeasts which contain 
maltase, and then not until inversion has been brought about by the 
enzyme. In view of the behaviour of maltose towards maltase, it is 
considered to be a glucose-o-glucoside, since it is only a-glucosides 
which are hydrolysed by maltase ; and in confirmation of this view 
o-glucose has been proved to be formed initially on hydrolysis. 

Maltose }delds, on oxidation with bromine, an acid containing the 
same number of carbon atoms, which is termed maltobionic acid ; this 
is hydrolysed to glucose and gluconic acid by mineral acids. Maltose 
combines with hydrogen cyanide, forming a compound which, on 
hydrolysis, gives maltose carboxylic acid, and is hydrolysed by mineral 
acids to glucose and glucoheptonic acid. Maltose must contain eight 
hydroxyl groups, as it gives an octa-acetyl derivative when acetylated. 
The behaviour of maltose is in accord with the constitutional formulae 
below. As already stated, it is not known which carbon atom is con- 
cerned in the attachment of the two sugar residues. Provisionally, the 
terminal carbon atom is so represented (see Chapter VI.) : — 

CHj(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . OH],. CH— O . CHj . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . OH], . CH . (0H> 



Maltose forms a glucoside analogous to methyl glucoside, but the 
direct condensation with methyl alcohol in presence of acid is not 
possible, as the disaccharide becomes hydrolysed during the operation. 
/3-Mtthyl maltoside has been prepared from acetochloro maltose, 
obtained by the action of hydrogen chloride on maltose octa-acetate. 
Acetochloro maltose interacts with methyl alcohol in presence of silver 
carbonate, forming hepta-acetyl methyl maltoside, which is converted 
into methyl maltoside on hydrolysis with baryta. The behaviour of 
this maltoside towards enzymes is interesting. Maltase hydrolyses it 
at the a-junction, forming glucose and )8-methyl glucoside; emulsin 
attacks only the )8-junction, forming maltose and methyl alcohol. The 
maltoside is accordingly /9-methyl glucose-a-glucoside. 

The conversion of maltose octa-acetate into )8-methyl maltoside 
fixes it as a /9-derivative, and since this acetate is the main product of 
the acetylation of solid maltose it is probable that maltose belbngs to 
the /9-series. The rotatory power of crystalline maltose, unlike that 
of glucose, increases in solution. According to Hudson's rule maU 
tose is a /9-compound (p. 26). 



THE DISACCHARIDES 65 

Isomaltose. 

Isomaltose is the name given by Fischer to the disaccharide ob- 
tained by him by the condensing action of strong acids on glucose. 
It was characterised only by means of the phenyl osazone and the fact 
that it is not fermented by yeast Products similar to isomaltose have 
been repeatedly described as obtained in the hydrolysis of starch, but> 
failing any characteristic derivative, definite proof of its presence in 
such cases is lacking. Isomaltose is probably identical with the di- 
saccharide obtained by Croft Hill by the synthetic action of maltase 
on glucose (see Chapter VI.) which he has termed revertose. E. F. 
Armstrong has shown that isomaltose is hydrolysed by emulsin, but 
not by invertase or maltase, and considers the isomaltose obtained by 
means of acids or enzymes to be the same in each case. The be- 
haviour towards emulsin and maltase suggests that it is probably 
glucose /9-glucoside. 

Gentiobiose. 

Gentiobiose is closely allied to maltose and isomaltose. It is 
found in the form of a trisaccharide termed gentianose present in the 
roots of various species of gentians ; when partially hydrolysed either 
by means of invertase or dilute acids, this yields fructose and gen- 
tiobiose. Gentiobiose forms a phenyl osazone, m.-p. 142'', shows 
muta-rotation, and is hydrolysed by emulsin : it is supposed to be a 
;8-glucoside. 

Cellobiose (Cellose). 

Cellulose (filter paper), when acetylated under suitable conditions 
(Skraup), forms an octa-^acetyl disaccharide, among other products, from 
which the corresponding sugar termed cellobiose is obtained on hy- 
drolysis with alkali. The cellobiose reduces Fehling's solution, and 
forms a phenyl osazone and osone in the same way as maltose. Fischer 
has shown that it is hydrolysed by emulsin, and it is therefore pre- 
sumably a )8-glucoside. He points out, however, that, inasmuch as 
emulsin is known to be a mixture of enzymes, it is not certain that 
the same enzyme which hydrolyses /8-methyl glucoside also resolves 
isomaltose, gentiobiose and cellobiose (see also p. 105). 

Cellobiose is not affected by the enzymes of yeast, but is slowly 
hydrolysed by Aspergillus ttiger or by kephir lactase. Bertrand and 
Compton have established the individuality of cellase, the enzyme 
acting on cellobiose. Cellase and emulsin occur together in plants in 
variable proportions. Acetochloro, acetobromo and acetoiodo cello- 
bioses have been prepared, also the tetradeca derivative of a tetrasac- 

5 



66 CARBOHYDRATES 

charide. Cellobiose behaves exactly like lactose. Two octa-acetates are 
known; the ;8-isomeride obtained by boiling cellobiose with acetic 
anhydride and sodium acetate has m.-p. iqi**, the -isomeride has 
m.-p. 221 . 

Lactose. 

Lactose or milk sugar, discovered in 1615 by Fabriccio Bartoletti 
in Bologna, occurs in the milk of all animals, but has not been 
encountered in the v^etable kingdom. It is manufactured by eva- 
poration of whey, purified by recrystallisation, and obtained in the 
form of a white crystalline powder. Mineral acids hydrolyse it to 
glucose and galactose; it exhibits muta-rotation, reduces Fehlings 
solution, and forms a phenyl osazone soluble in boiling water. Like 
glucose, it gives rise to two series of isomeric derivatives, e,g.^ octa- 
acetates, acetochloro lactoses and methyl lactosides. Three isomeric 
modifications of the sugar itself have been described corresponding to 
the Or and ^-isomerides and their equilibrated mixture. It is a glucose 
galactoside, since, on oxidation with bromine, lactobionic acid is 
formed, and this when hydrolysed by mineral acids gives gluconic 
acid and galactose, proving that the potential aldehyde group is in 
the glucose part of the molecule. 

Adopting Fischer's glucoside formula for lactose, it is a question, 
as previously indicated, whether the primary alcohol group or the 
^-secondary alcohol group of the glucose molecule take part in the 
union with the galactose. The possibility of either the a- or 
7-secondary alcohol groups being concerned is excluded by the facts 
that lactose forms a phenyl osazone, exhibits muta-rotation, and gives 
rise to derivatives having a 7-oxide structure. The /9-secondary alcohol 
group can also be excluded from consideration, as Ruff and Ollendorf 
have obtained, on oxidising the calcium salt of lactobionic acid by 
Fenton's method, a galactoarabinose sugar which forms a phenyl 
osazone in which this )8-alcohol group is involved. It must therefore 
be uncombined in the parent lactose. It is impossible at present to 
go any further in deciding in favour of either of the remaining two 
formulae for lactose (see pp. 87, 88). 

Galactose residue. Glucose residue. 

CH^OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . OH], . CH-O . CH, . CH(OH) . CH[CH . 0H1.CH(0H> 





CH.(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . OH], . CH-O . CH[CH, . OH] . CH[CH . OH], . CH(OH) 





Alternative FormulflB for Lactose. 



THE DISACCHARIDES 67 

The isomeric a- and /9-forms of milk sugar, originally described by 
Tanret and investigated more recently by Hudson, differ only with 
respect to the relative positions of the hydrogen and hydroxyl radicles 
attached to the carbon atom printed in clarendon type in the glucose 
half of the molecule. Tanret's y-lactose is an equilibrated mixture. 
a-Lactose is properly a-glucose-/3-gaIactoside, whereas /9-lactose is 
;8-glucose^/9-galactoside. 

Galactoarabinose is of interest as the only example of a syntheti- 
cal disaccharide containing both hexose and pentose sugars. It is 
therefore akin to the natural sugar rhamninose. The formation of 
galactoarabinose affords additional proof that lactose is a galactoside. 

Lactose is hydrolysed by a specific enzyme lactase found in a few 
yeasts (or, more correctly, torulae), in some kefir preparations, and in 
the enzyme (crude emulsin) contained in an aqueous extract of almonds. 
It is believed that kefir lactase and almond lactase are not identical. 
Lactose is not hydrolysed by maltase, invertase, diastase, nor by any 
of the enzymes of dried brewers' yeast Only those yeasts (torulae) 
which contain lactase are capable of fermenting milk sugar. Lactose 
is particularly prone to undergo lactic and butyric acid fermentations. 

Isolactose is the name given to a disaccharide obtained by Fischer 
and Armstrong by the synthetical action of the enzyme kefir lactase 
on a concentrated solution of equal parts of glucose and galactose, 
and isolated in the form of the phenyl osazone. It has not been 
further studied. 

Melibiose. 

Melibiose, together with fructose, is obtained from the trisaccharide 
raflinose by hydrolysis with dilute acids or certain yeasts (Scheibler 
and Mittelmeier). It crystallises with difficulty and it is advisable 
to remove the fructose from the products of hydrolysis of raffinose 
by fermentation with a top yeast before attempting to isolate it. On 
hydrolysis with strong acids melibiose yields glucose and galactose. 
On reduction with sodium amalgam an alcohol melibiitol is formed. 
This, when hydrolysed, is converted into mannitol and galactose. 
Melibiose is thus a galactoside of glucose, />., very closely related to 
milk sug^r. 

It exhibits muta-rotation, forms a phenyl osazone and an osone, 
which latter decomposes to galactose and glucosone. 

Melibiose is slowly hydrolysed by emulsin, more rapidly by an 
enzyme contained in bottom fermentation, but not in top fermentation 
yeasts : this enzyme is appropriately termed melibiase. Melibiose is 



68 CARBOHYDRATES 

not attacked by maltase, invertase or lactase. It affords a chemical 
means of distinguishing between top and bottom fermentation yeasts. 
It is apparently less easily hydrolysed by acids than is milk sugar. 

The difference between melibiose and milk sugar appears to depend 
upon which hydroxyl of the glucose molecule is united to the galacto- 
side (see types A and B, p. 87). Since both disaccharides are 
attacked by emulsin they may provisionally both be considered as 
/9-galactosides. 

Added interest attaches to melibiose in view of its being the first 
natural disaccharide obtained synthetically (Fischer and Armstrongs 
see p. 97). 

Melibiosone, which can be prepared from the osaione by heating 
with benzaldehyde, is hydrolysed by emulsin or by melibiase to 
galactose and glucosone. 

Turanose. 

Turanose was discovered by Alechin in 1890 as a product, together 
with glucose, of the partial hydrolysis of a trisaccharide, melicitose, 
with weak acids. He stated that it yielded two molecules of glucose 
on further hydrolysis, but Tanret subsequently showed that an equi* 
molecular mixture of glucose and fructose is produced Turanose is 
thus an isomeride of sucrose, but differs from this in containing a free 
aldehydic group, since it forms a phenyl osazone and reduces Fehling's 
solution. It does not exhibit muta-rotation. It is not at present 
known whether it is to be regarded as a fructoside or a glucoside. 
Invertase, maltase, emulsin and diastase are without action. 

Vicianose. 

Vicianose was obtained by Bertrand from the seeds of a vetch ( Vtda 
angusiifolid) where it is present in the form of a glucoside, vicianin, 
allied to amygdalin. Vicianose is glucose-arabinoside, since on oxida- 
tion and subsequent hydrolysis gluconic acid and arabinose are formed. 
Accordingly in the glucoside the glucose group is attached to the 
benzaldehyde cyanhydrin. 

Strophantobiose. 

Strophantobiose is a component of the glucoside strophantin. 
When this glucoside is hydrolysed by hydrogen chloride in methyl 
alcohol methyl strophantobioside lis formed This does not reduce 
Fehling's solution and is hydrolysed by mineral adds to mannose, 
rhamnose and methyl alcohol. 



THE TRISACCHARIDES . 69 



TRISACCHARIDES, Ci^H^Oie. 

Mannotriose. 

Mannotriose, m.-p. 150°, [a]© + 167"*, a colourless faintly sweet 
crystalline substance, is obtained from stachyose by the action of in- 
vertase or of dilute acetic acid. It reduces Fehling's solution and 
forms a phenyl osazone, m.-p. 122-124'' (Tanret). According td Bierry 
the compound, m.-p. I93*I94^ described by Neuberg and Lachmann 
was impure. Mannotriose is hydrolysed by acids to glucose (one mole- 
cule) and galactose (two molecules). Bromine oxidises it to mannotri- 
onic acid which is hydrolysed by acids to gluconic acid and galactose, 
thus locating the glucose molecule at the end of the chain. The action 
of enzymes on mannotriose is still a matter of uncertainty. Bierry has 
shown that the intestinal juice of the snail probably first forms 
galactose and a dissaccharide, glucose + galactose, which is subsequently 
hydrolysed. According to Neuberg and Lachmann glucose and a 
digalactose are formed by the action of almond emulsin. 

The constitution is probably 

CHO . CjHjpO^— O -CpHipG^— O— C,HuO, 

Glucose Galactose Galactose 

^ ' '* , ' 

Gluco-galactose. Digalactose. 



Rhamninose. 

Rhamninose, Ci8H,40i4, m.-p. 135-140^ [a]D-4i'*, is derived from 
the glucoside xanthorhamnin present in the Persian berry (Rkamnus in- 
fectarid). The berries also contain a specific enzyme, rhamninase, which 
resolves the glucoside into the trisaccharide and rhamnetin. The car- 
bohydrate forms colourless crystals which are somewhat sweet : it re- 
duces Fehling's solution. On hydrolysis by mineral acids galactose 
and rhamnose (two molecules) are formed. The galactose is proved to 
be the terminal unit since the rhamninitol and rhamninonic acids, formed 
by reduction and oxidation respectively, are hydrolysed by acids to 
dulcitol or galactonic acid and rhamnose (two molecules). Rhamninose 
is not fermentable and the ordinary enzymes are without action. It ap- 
pears to be slowly hydrolysed by the intestinal juice of Helix. 

The formula may be written : — 

CHO . CsHipO^— O—CpHuO^-O— CpHuG^ 
Galactose. Rhamnose. Rhamnose. 



70 CARBOHYDRATES 

Raffinose. 

Raffinose, m.-p. 118-119°, [a]p + 1 04°. The best-known trisaccharide 
is raffinose which is often found in considerable amount in the sug^ar beet, 
and is present in other plants. Strong mineral acids hydrolyse it com- 
pletely to fructose, glucose and galactose in equal proportions. Dilute 
acids form melibiose and fructose. The action of enzymes on raffinose 
is more specialised ; invertase converts it into fructose and melibiose. 
Emulsin, however, hydrolyses it to sucrose and galactose. Bottom 
yeasts which contain both melibiase and invertase are able to ferment 
it completely. 

Raffinose has no reducing action and behaves chemically as cane 
sugar. The constitutional formula may be written : — 

C|HjiOj— O— C,Hio04— O— C^HijO, 
Fructose Glucose Galactose 



^ i '^ 



Sucrose. Melibiose. 



Gentianose. 



Gentianose, m.-p. 209-210*", [a]D + 3I•2*'-33•4^is obtained in faintly 
sweet colourless crystalline plates by extracting fresh gentian roots with 
95 per cent alcohol. It is non-reducing and is hydrolysed by invertase 
or very dilute acids to fructose and gentiobiose. Some emulsin prepara- 
tions, in particular extracts of Aspergillus niger^ convert it into glucose 
and sucrose (Bourquelot). Stronger acids hydrolyse it to a mixture of 
fructose and two molecules of glucose having [ajo - 20*2^ Animal 
enzymes are without action, but those of molluscs and crustacean, parti- 
cularly of the snail, act firstly to eliminate fructose and then hydrolyse 
the gentiobiose (Bierry). 

The constitutional formula is thus written : — 

CjH„0,— O— C-HipO^-O— C^HiiOa 
Fructose Glucose Glucose 



.^ s. 



Sucrose. Gentiobiose. 

Melicitose. 

Melicitose (Melezitose), m.-p. 148-150^ [a]D+88-5°, is obtained from 
Brian^on manna, the exudation from the young twigs of the larch. It 
does not reduce Fehling's solution or form a phenyl osazone. Dilute 
acids hydrolyse it to turanose and glucose. Living yeast and en- 
zymes are without action. Stronger acids give rise to fructose (one 
molecule) and glucose (two molecules). It forms a hendeca-acetate. 



THE TETRASACCHARIDES 71 

The constitution may be represented provisionally by the alterna- 
tive formulae : — 

1 . glucose + fructose + glucose. 

2. glucose + glucose + fructose. 

These would assign to turanose the structure alternatively of a glucoside 
or fructoside. 

TETRASACCHARIDES, C,,H^O,i. 

Stachyose. 

Stachyose (Mannotetrose, Lupeose) is found in the tubers of 
Stachys tubiferay in ash manna, in the twigs of white jasmine and in 
the subterranean parts of Lantiunt album. 

It is probably identical with lupeose obtained by Schulze from 
Lupinus luteus and Angustifolius, It forms lustrous colourless plates, 
m.-p. 167-170°, [a]D + 148°, and tastes quite sweet. 

Fehling's solution and alkali are without action on it Acetic 
acid and the invertase of yeast hydrolyse it into mannotriose and 
fructose. Sulphuric acid causes complete hydrolysis to hexoses. It 
is also hydrolysed by the intestinal juice of Helix pomaiia which first 
eliminates fructose, then galactose and finally resolves the gluco- 
galactoside remaining as described under mannotriose. Animal 
intestinal enzymes though they hydrolyse sucrose are without action 
on stachyose, the enzymes of molluscs and crustaceae are also without 
action. Vintilesco claims to have hydrolysed stachyose completely 
by the successive action of invertase and almond emulsin. On oxida- 
tion with nitric acid, mucic acid is formed. 

The formula may be expressed : — 

C«HaO|r--0— C,Hio04— O— CeHio04— O— CeHnOB 
Fructose Glucose Galactose Galactose 



Mannotriose 



CHAPTER V. 

THE RELATION BETWEEN CONFIGURATION » AND BIOCHEMICAL 

PROPERTIES. 

Perhaps the most important, and at the same time the most interesting, 
chapter in the chemistry of the sugars is that dealing with the altera- 
tion in properties brought about by small changes in the stereo-chemical 
configuration of the carbohydrate molecule. Although the molecular 
weight and the gross structure of the molecule remain the same, the 
very slightest modification in the space arrangement of the groups 
attached to the chain of carbon atoms is sufficient to affect the bio- 
chemical behaviour in the most profound manner. How exactly 
structure is to be correlated with biological behaviour, and how little 
variation in structure is permissible, will be seen from the following 
examples. 

It has long been known that the optical antipodes of a substance 
containing an asymmetric carbon atom behave very differently towards 
biological agents, such as yeasts, moulds, enzymes or bacteria. The 
celebrated researches of Pasteur showed, for example, that the green 
mould, Penicillium glaucunty when allowed to grow in solutions of 
racemic acid, assimilated only ^tartaric acid, leaving the /-tartaric acid 
untouched. It was supposed at the time that the mould was unable 
to attack the /-tartaric acid ; recent investigations suggest, however, 
that the mould ultimately destroys both antipodes, but attacks one at 
a very much greater rate than the other, and probably in a different 
manner. 

From a given racemic substance it is possible to obtain sometimes 
the one and sometimes the other antipode by utilising appropriate 
organisms. For example, an excess of ^mandelic acid is obtained 
from ^mandelic acid on treatment with Penicillium glaucunty whereas 
when Saccharamyces ellipsoideus is used an excess of /-mandelic acid is 
obtained. 

^ By the term configuration is understood the positions of the hydroxy! groups relative 
to the skeleton chain of carbon atoms. Change involves transference from the right to left 
side of the chain as figured on the plane of the paper or vic€ verid firom left to right. 

72 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 73 

Fermentation. 

Yeasts only ferment one, the dextro, isomeride of glucose converting 
it into carbon dioxide and alcohol, and accordingly when yeasts are 
allowed to act on racemic glucose the laevo glucose remains unattacked. 
The same applies to the other fermentable hexoses ; in all cases only 
the dextro isomeride is attacked. 

The investigation of the behaviour of all the known hexoses, 
either found in nature or prepared in the laboratory, towards yeasts 
has shown that only four are fermented, t^>., the ^forms of glucose, 
mannose, galactose and fructose, all of which are natural products. 

When the behaviour of different species of yeasts towards these 
natural hexoses is studied, it is found without a single exception that 
any species of yeast which ferments any one of the three hexoses — 
glucose, mannose and fructose — likewise ferments all three of them, 
and with approximately the same readiness. The study of the kinetics 
of the three fermentation reactions confirms their similarity, and they 
have the same temperature coefficient (Slator). Everything, in fact, 
points to the mechanism involved in the fermentation of glucose, 
mannose or fructose being the same in each instance. 

It has already been pointed out that the three hexoses in question 
are closely related in structure, so closely indeed as to be converted, 
under the influence of alkalis into one another. An enolic form 
common to all three hexoses has been assumed to act as an intermediate 
substance in the transformation. The relationship will become clear 
when the formulae of these carbohydrates are consulted : — 



CHO 


CHO 


CH.OH 


CH^.OH 


HtOH 


ho6h 


COH 


CO 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


CH,OH 


CH,0H 


CH,0H 


CH,OH 


Glncose. 


Mannose. 


Common enolic form. 


FrnctOBe. 



It is clearer here to use the older open-chain formulae, but the reader 
is advised to study these formulae in the solid model in order to 
understand fully the stereoisomerism of these compounds. Represen- 
tations on a plane surface easily lead to confusion. 

On the basis of the closed-ring formula for glucose, enolisation 
involves in the first place rupture of the pentaphane ring and forma- 
tion of the aldehydrol ; secondly, water is eliminated between two 
contiguous carbon atoms to give the enol. Comparing the scheme 
opposite with that on p. 5, for the conversion of the aldehydrol into 
glucose, the difference is at once apparent : — 



74 CARBOHYDRATES 





HO/. C H CH(OHV 

// \ ^ 

+ H,0 H/COH OH - H,0 C . OH 

HO.CH 

\ 
HC.OH 

HC.OH 

OH 

Bnol. 



Ah,. 



According to the alternative formula th^^ aldehyde^ formsj aldehydrol' 
and this enol. The change is a reversible one.! ^ 

The process of fermentation of a sugar^ is regarded as a series of" 
consecutive reactions > each involving simplification of the sugar mole- 
cule till it breaks down into carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol, com- 
pounds containing only one and two carbon atoms. Measurements; 
of the rate of fermentation can be made by determining the rate of 
formation of either of these products* — for example, the amount of 
COj formed after various intervals of time — but such measurements, 
only apply to the slowest of these reactions. Similarly the quantita- 
tive effect produced by an increase of temperature in quickening the 
rate of fermentation in reality applies to the slowest reaction of the 
series. 

It has been • suggested that the first process in fermentation is the 
conversion of the sugar into the enolic form by means of an enzyme 
contained in the yeast. The three fermentable hexoses yield the same 
enolic form, but possibly it is formed at different rates according ta 
the sugar ; and whether one and the same enzyme is operative in each 
case it is impossible to say. The subsequent simplification of the 
molecule is the same for each of the three hexoses, an hypothesis which 
is quite in agreement with the experimental observations. This sim- 
plification is also due to an enzyme or to several enzymes acting in 
turn. The breakdown of the molecule will thus commence at the 
double linkage between the two terminal carbon atoms. 

This view is quite in harmony with the discovery by Harden and 
Young that the first stage in the fermentation of glucose by zymase is, 
the formation of hexose phosphate ^^\ff^^^O^. Glucose, 
mannose and fructose give rise to the same hexose phosphate : when 
this is hydrolysed fructose is obtained. In other words, the hexose 
phosphate may be regarded as a compound of the enolic form of the 
three hexoses (cp. Dr. Harden's Monograph, p. 46). 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 75 

Further support of this view of the fermentation process is afforded 
by the fact that substances so closely related to glucose as the methyl 
glucosides, glucosone, gluconic acid and ethyl gluconate are, without 
exception, unfermentable : in all these only the groups attached to 
the terminal carbon atom differ from those of glucose. Enolisation ia 
them, however, is impossible, and no action takes place since the for- 
mation of hexose phosphate is prevented. 

The behaviour of galactose is altogether different It is fermented 
with much greater difficulty than glucose. Very many yeasts are 
quite without action on galactose. The temperature coefficient of the 
fermentation of galactose is different from the value found in the case 
of glucose. These facts suggest that galactose is fermented by a 
different mechanism, that a different enzyme is concerned perhaps in 
causing enolisation, which is less widely distributed in yeasts. None 
the less the two phenomena must be very closely allied. No yeast is 
known capable of fermenting galactose but not fermenting glucose. 

The change in configuration in passing from glucose to galactose^ 
though not sufficient to prevent fermentation altogether, causes th& 
compound to be far more resistant to attack. It is not surprising^ 
therefore, that any further change in configuration is sufficient to make 
the new hexose no longer fermentable. 

This is illustrated by the behaviour of galactose and its isomerides, 
talose and tag^atose, which have an enolic form common to all three 
hexoses : — 



CHO 


CHO 


CHjOH 


CHOH 


HCOH 


HOCH 


CO 


COH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


CHjOH 


CHgOH 


CHjOH 


CHjOH 


Galactose. 


Talose. 


Tagatose. 


Enolic form. 



Neither talose nor tagatose is fermented by any yeast whose 
action towards them has at present been investigated. Yet in talose 
the position of the two upper hydroxyl groups is the same as that in 
mannose, and the lower three hydroxyls occupy the same positions as 
they do in galactose. Obviously, for it to be fermentable, the con- 
figuration of the hexose has to be correct as a whole, the fact that 
single hydroxyl groups occupy the same positions as they do in fer- 
mentable hexoses being of no moment. 

Presumably yeasts contain no enzymes compatible with talose or 
tagatose and able to convert them into the enolic form. 

The facts described can only be explained on the assumption that 



76 CARBOHYDRATES 

there is the very closest relationship between the configuration of a 
fermentable hexose and the enzymes which cause fermentation. This 
hypothesis receives confirmation which is little short of absolute when 
the behaviour of the sugars other than the hexoses is considered. No 
pentose, either natural or synthetical, is fermentable by yeast. None 
of the synthetic tetrose, heptoseor octose carbohydrates are fermentable. 

The only fermentable sugars, other than the four hexoses, are a 
nonose prepared by the cyanohydrin reaction from mannose and a 
ketotriose, diaxyacetane. The fermentability of glycerose — a mixture 
of glyceric aldehyde and diox3^cetone — ^was long a matter of contro- 
versy ; Bertrand, however, showed that pure dioxyacetone is fermented 
by very active yeasts and this has been repeatedly confirmed. 

The identification of intermediate products in the fermentation of 
glucose has long been a matter of controversy (see Harden's Mono- 
graph on Alcoholic Fermentation in this series). 

Buchner and his co-workers have suggested in turn lactic acid 
CH, . CH(OH) . COaH and dihydroxy acetone CHaOH . CO . CHjOH, 
but in both cases Slator has shown that these are fermented very much 
more slowly than glucose, an observation which renders Buchner's 
hypothesis untenable, and the same will probably apply to the latest 
suggestion that formic acid is an intermediate product. Bearing in 
mind Fischer's synthesis of acrose from dihydroxyacetone it appears 
probable that dihydroxyacetone is fermented by yeast only after it has 
been converted into hexose. This hypothesis is greatly strengthened 
by Lebedeffs proof that the organic phosphate produced during the 
fermentation of dihydrox3^cetone is identical with the hexose phosphate 
obtained by Harden and Young from the fermentable hexoses. 

It is probable, therefore, that dihydroxy acetone is only fermented 
after conversion into hexose. 

It is obvious how intimately the property of undergoing fermen- 
tation is connected with the configuration of the sugar molecule. 
Lengthening or shortening the chain of carbons is sufficient to place 
the sugar molecule out of harmony with the yeast enzymes, and thus 
prevent its destruction by fermentation. The fact that triose, hexose 
and nonose sugars are fermentable has led to the suggestion that the 
fermentable carbohydrates must contain a multiple of three carbon 
atoms : the fermentability of the nonose requires confirmation. 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 77 



Glucoside Hydrolysis. 

The formation of stereoisomeric or and /9-methyl glucosides by the 
interaction of glucose and methyl alcohol in presence of hydrogen 
chloride has already been discussed and their constitutional formula 
established These isomeric glucosides, though so alike in structure, 
behave very differently towards enzymes. 

a-Methyl glucoside is hydrolysed by the maltose (a-glucase^)«of 
yeast, /9-methyl glucoside by etnulsin (/S-glucase) which is widely dis- 
tributed in plants. Emulsin is quite without action on the a^lucoside ; 
maltase has no effect on the /3-glucoside. 

CHtO.C.H 

h£oh 

HOCH 





:h/>h 

•-Methyl glacoride 
hydrolyied 1^ Maltaie. hydrolysed by BmulstiL 

(a-glocase) (/i-gluc&se) 

Other alkyl derivatives of glucose behave in a similar manner. It 
may be stated as a general rule that /9-glucosides are hydrol3rsed by 
emulsin alone, o-glucosides are only attacked by maltase. Accordingly 
compounds hydrolysed by emulsin are considered to be yS-glucosides. 
The corresponding derivatives of /-glucose are not affected in the 
slightest by either enzyme, or and /9-methyl-/-glucosides represent the 
mirror images of the methyl-^lucosides and their bdiaviour is parallel 
to that of /-glucose towards living yeast 

The glucosidic derivatives of mannose, viz.^ methyl-^/ and Amanno- 
sides are also quite stable in presence of maltase or emulsin. Hence 
the change in position of a single hydroxyl (here that attached to the 
a-carbon atom) is sufficient to render the mannoside out of harmony 
with these enzymes ; but, as has just been seen, the change in con- 
figuration is not sufficient to make mannose unfermentable by yeast 

^ NomenelatuT$ of EnMynus.-^The name of an enzyme is uavally derived from that of 
the sugar which it hydrolyses by anbetituting the aaffix -as$ for -os«. Thaa maltaae 
hydxolyaea maltose, lactase hydrolyses lactose. The enzyme which attacks glncosides 
may be termed glueate and is an o-glucase or /S-glucase accordingly aa it hydrolyses the 
a- or 3-glacoside. 



78 CARBOHYDRATES 

o-Methyl-^galactoside is likewise not hydrolysed by maltase or 
emulsin. 

^-Methyl-^galactoside is hydrolysed by the crude emulsin prepara- 
tion obtained from almonds, but subsequent investigation has shown 
that this preparation contains a mixture of enzymes and that the 
hydrolysis of the ^S-galactoside is due to a lactase ^S-galactase) and 
not to the same enzyme which attacks /9-methyl glucoside. This 
behaviour shows that the alteration in the position of the hydroxyl 
attached to the y-carbon atom in the glucoside molecule renders the 
galactosides out of harmony with maltase and emulsin. Any other 
alteration involving departure from the configuration of the glucose 
molecule or in the length of the chain of carbon atoms has the same 
effect on the behaviour towards enzymes. 

None of the known glucosides ^ of the pentoses, methyl pentoses, 
heptoses or other hexoses are hydrolysed by maltase or emulsia 

This behaviour can only mean that the hydrolysing power of these 
two enzymes bears the very closest relationship to the configuration of 
the dextro-glucose molecule. 

Fischer has drawn particular attention to the behaviour of the or 
and i3-methyl-/-xylosides. These practically correspond to the corre- 
sponding glucosides with one asymmetric carbon atom removed : — 

CH,OCH 
HCOH 
HO 



H 
HCOH 




CH,( 




jOH 
•-Methyl-ii-gluconde. a-MethyM-xyloside. 

Both xylosides are unaffected by either maltase or emulsin. In 
this instance, although the major part of the molecule is identically the 
:same in each glucoside, the shortening of the chain is sufficient to 
destroy the close harmony with the enzyme. The glucosides investi- 
jrated by Fischer are summarised in Table IX. on page 79 in which 
+ indicates hydrolysis, o denotes no action. 

The investigation of the rate of hydrolysis of maltose — an a-gluco- 
.side — ^by maltase has shown that change takes place more slowly in the 
presence of glucose, indicating that this sugar has a definite retarding 

^The tenn glucoside is used generally for the corresponding derivatives of all the 
•sugars and not restricted to the derivatives of glucose. 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 79 



TABLE IX. 



QloGOtide. 


MalUM 
(a-Glucaie). 


Eronltin 
O-OlacftM). 


fl-Methyl^GlttCoside . 

^-Methyl^GIucoside . 

«-Methyl./-Gluco8ide . 

/9-Methyl-^Gluco8ide . , 

»-Ethyl-<f-Glucoside . < 

3-EthyM-Gluco6ide . 

/S-Phenol-^GIttooside . 

o-Methyl-i-Galactoside' , 

3.Methyl-<f-Galactoside , 
Methyl-if-Mannotide 
Methyl-^Mannoaide 

a-Methyl.^Xylotide . 

/i-Methyl-Z-Xyloside . 
Methyl4-Arabino«de 
Methyl rhamnotide • 
Methyl glucoheptoside , 




+ 




+ 






















+ 




+ 
+ 














influence on the enzyme. Other sugars, e^.^ mannose, fructose, galac- 
tose, arabinose, xylose are quite without influence on the rate of 
^change proving that the action of glucose is due not to any concentrat- 
ing eflect but to the specific influence exerted by its configuration. 
The fact that /9-methyl glucoside also acts to retard the hydrolysis of 
•the a-glucoside (maltose) aflbrds the strongest confirmatory evidence 
of this specific hindrance. Fart of the enzyme must combine with 
the glucose and so be withdrawn from action. Maltase can apparently 
<:ombine with /9-methyl glucoside though quite unable to hydro- 
lyse it. 

In an analogous manner the hydrolysis of)9-methyl glucoside by 
^mulsin is controlled only by glucose and a-methyl glucoside, and by 
no other carbohydrate. 

These illustrations, selected from a number of carefully worked out 
•cases, suflice to show the very intimate relation which exists between 
enzyme and the substance upon which it acts. This can only be ex- 
plained by supposing some form of combination between the two. 
The enzyme, moreover, must fit the glucoside at every point along 
fthe chain of carbon atoms, thus : — 

V 

I 
I 
I 
I 



RO 



4. 



'•-^- 



>.-.^ — .^; 



8o CARBOHYDRATES 

The combination may perhaps be compared to the way in which 
the successive fingers of a glove fit on to a right hand : if the position 
of any finger be altered it is impossible to fit the glove ; further, the glove 
will not fit on the left hand. Fischer's original simile compared the 
relationship of enzyme to hydrolyte to that existing between a key and 
the lock for which it is made, the shape of the key enabling it only 
to unfasten the particular lock to the arrangement of whose wards it 
corresponds. 

The enzymes themselves, if this hypothesis be accepted, must be 
closely related in configuration to the substances which they hydrolyse. 
From this point of view the presence of a carbohydrate in the molecule 
of invertase and some other enzymes is at least significant (see Mono- 
graph by Bayliss, p. 19). Salkowski states, however, that the carbohy- 
drate present in the yeast gum is precipitated with the enzyme, but 
that it is not a component of the purified enzyme. 

It is perhaps necessary to emphasise that the actual hydrolysis of 
the carbohydrate is due to the action of the water molecules. The 
enzymes may be conceived perhaps as acting as a vice in presenting 
in the appropriate manner the water molecule to the centre to be 
hydrolysed. 

Attachment of enzyme to hydrolyte takes place no doubt through 
the oxygen atoms of the hydroxyl groups. In these the oxygen atom 
possesses residual affinity, that is, is not fully saturated, and it is there-* 
fore able to combine with appropriate elements of the molecule of the 
enzyme. 

The fact that tetramethyl-^-methyl glucoside like ^S-methyl 
glucoside itself is hydrolysed by emulsin is in full agreement with this 
view: — 

H . c . OMc 

HCOMe 
MeOCH 
Hi. 

I 

HCOMe 

I 
CH, . OMe 

Tetramethyl-/B-methyl glucoside. 

Although in this compound the hydrogen in the hydroxyl groups ot 
glucose has been replaced by methyl, this change is not sufficient either 
to destroy the residual affinity of the oxygen atoms or to mask them 
from the influence of the enzyme. 




CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 8i 

Comrefskm ot Galactose into Glucose. 

When the closedning formulae of the two hexoses, glucose and 
galactose, aie considered side by side, it will be obvious that the diflfer- 
ence between them is confined to the relative positicms of the gixHips 
attached to the 4th or 7-carbon atom, /.«., the oxygen atom of the 
pentajdiane ring is attached to different sides of the molecule : — 

HCOH HCOH 

Hclo^-^ ,^^ . a-Carixm . . . ^^.^^-^'^'^COH 

HOCH ^^^^S^^' . . . ^.Carbon . . . ^'^^--.^^^^HOeH 

h£OH . S^aiboo . HCOH 

CH.OH tnfin 

Glnooae. Galactose* 

The direct conversion of one sugar into the other involves the rupture 
of the ring at lliis point and its closure again in the opposite sense. 
The whole behaviour of glucose shows, however, diat the pentaphane 
ring ruptures preferentially at the attachment of the oxygen to the 
first carbon atom. The conversion of glucose into galactose has been 
only indirectly effected by chemical means, but there is little doubt 
that it takes place in the oi^nism, as it is only on this supposition 
that the formation of the galactoside, milk sugar, in large quantities in 
mammals during lactation can be accounted for. 

Under normal conditions the blood transports glucose to the 
mammary glands, where, in the r^^lar course of lactation, it is con- 
verted into the disaccharide, imilk sugar, and excreted in the milk. 
Removal of the mammary gland results in an accumulation of glucose 
in the blood, from which it passes to the urine. Galactose is not 
found in the urine. Injection of glucose causes lactosuria when the 
mammary glands are in full activity, but produces glucosuria when the 
glands are less active. Nothing is known as to the mechanism by 
which the mammary glands are able to transform glucose into lactose, 
but it is undoubtedly effected by means of enzymes. 

The enzyme lactase which hydrolyses ^-methyl galactoside, other 
^-alkyl galactosides and milk sugar, is a specific enzyme for ^-galacto- 
sides, just as emulsin has been shown to be the specific enzyme for 
^-glucosides. Lactase has its action controlled only by galactose and 
by no other sugar, and it is incapable of hydrolysing glucosides. No 
enzyme is at present known which can hydrolyse a-methyl galacto- 
side ; on the other hand, no compound of a-galactose is known in 
nature. 

Apparently two lactases exist, one form present in kephir being 

6 



82 CARBOHYDRATES 

controlled by galactose, the other present in almond emulsin by glucose. 
The recent work of Miss Stephenson indicates that the lactase of the 
intestinal mucous membrane of animals is a glucolactase. 

Oxidation. 

The influence of configuration has been also studied in the case 
of the behaviour of carbohydrates towards oxidising bacteria. The 
bacterium xylinum (Adrian Brown), or sorbose bacterium, as it has 
been termed by Bertrand, oxidises aldoses to the corresponding mono- 
basic acids, and converts the alcohols into ketones, e.g,^ gluconic acid 
is formed from glucose ; galactonic acid from galactose ; xylose and 
arabinose yield xylonic and arabonic acids. In all these cases the 
- CHO g^oup is oxidised to - COgH by the agency of the bacterium. 

In the case of alcohols the sorbose bacteria oxidise - CH(OH) - 
to - CO - . Thus mannitol forms fructose ; sorbitol yields sorbose ; 
erythritol, arabitol and perseitol are oxidised to the corresponding 
ketones, and glycerol gives dihydroxyacetone. The bacterium has 
no action, however, on glycol, dulcitol or xylitol. 

An examination of the formula of these alcohols shows that the 
CH(OH) group oxidised to - CO is next to a CHgCOH) group ; 
further, for action to take place, the hydroxyl group must not be 
adjacent to a hydrogen atom on the same side of the configuration 
formula ; in other words, the compound must contain the grouping : — 

H H 

CHJOH) . C . C — 
OH OH 

Consideration of the configuration formulae of mannitol and dulcitol 
will help to make this clear : — 

H OH H H 

CH,(0H) . C . C . C . C . CH,(0H) 

OH H OH OH 

Mannitol— converted into Fnictow. 

H OH OH H 

CH,(0H) . C . C . C . C . CHs(0H) 

OH H H OH 

Dulcitol — ^not attacked. 

Gluconic acid contains the sensitive grouping. Accordingly, it is 
further oxidised by the bacterium to a keto-gluconic acid : — 

OH H OH OH 
C0.H . C . C . C . C . CH,(0H) 
H OH H H 

Gluconic add« 

OH H OH 
C0,H . C . C . C . CO . CH,(OH) 
H OH H 
Keto gluconic add. 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 83 

In contrast with the sucroclastic enzymes, which are apparently in 
harmony with the sugar molecule as a whole, these oxidising bacteria 
seem adapted to a section only of the molecule. Their action is none 
the less absolutely dependent on the presence of the requisite configura- 
tion in the molecule. 

Many bacteria act upon mannitol which are without action on 
dulcitol. Harden found this to be true for Bacillus coli communis ^ which 
is of interest also since it produces twice as much alcohol from mannitol 
as from glucose. This difference is ascribed to the presence of the 
group CHaCOH) . CH(OH) — which is contained once only in glucose 
but twice in mannitol. 



By floating detached leaves, which have been deprived of their 
starch by keeping them in the dark, on nutrient solution it is possible 
to determine which substances can occasion the formation of starch. 
The application of this method to the carbohydrate alcohols affords an 
excellent illustration of the influence of configuration on the biological 
properties. Plants which normally contain alcohols can utilise these 
and also glycerol to form starch ; thus the Oleacece utilise mannitol, 
Lingustrum and Chieranthus make use of dulcitol. Treboux has shown 
that the Rosacea are able to produce starch from sorbitol, the production 
being more vigorous than from carbohydrates or from glycerol, but they 
are quite unable to utilise mannitol or dulcitol. The leaves of Adonis 
vemalis are able to convert adonitol into starch but can make use of no 
other carbohydrate alcohol. 

The four polysaccharides, sucrose, gentianose, raffinose and stachyose 
may all be regarded as fructose derivatives of increasing complexity. 
The invertase of beer yeast eliminates fructose from all of them, the 
juice of Helix pomatia or of Astacus behaving similarly, though there is a 
difference in the degree of hydrolysis, $ucrose being far the most readily 
attacked. The intestinal juice of the dog and that of other invertebrates 
acts only on sucrose (Bierry). 

The digestive juice of snails is remarkable in its activity towards 
substituted lactose derivatives. Thus it hydrolyses lactose-osazone, 
aminoguanidine, semi-carbazone and carbamide to galactose and a de- 
rivative of glucose. In a similar manner it splits off galactose from 
derivatives of mannotriose (Bierry). 



CHAPTER VI. 

HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS. 

HydroljTSis of Disaccharides. 

Disaccharides are hydrolysed to monosaccharides by mineral and 
organic acids in accordance with the equation — 

Cvfiffiu + H,0 = 2CeHj,0e 

Any acid will act on each sugar, though the intensity of the action 
differs more or less according to the acid or the disaccharide. 

The disaccharides are also hydrolysed by enzymes. The action 
of enzymes is essentially selective : each particular sugar is hydrolysed 
only by its appropriate enzyme and by no other. There is thus a 
sharp distinction between the two classes of hydrolysing agents. 

Great historical interest attaches to the phenomenon of the hydro- 
lysis of cane sugar by acids as it was one of the first chemical changes 
of which the course was followed by physical methods.^ The change 
in sign of the optical rotatory power on inversion was first announced 
by Biot in 1836. A few years later Wilhelmy (1850) showed that the 
amount of sugar changed in any given moment is a constant percent- 
age of the amount of unchanged sugar present. This is known as 
Wilhelmy's law, and put into mathematical form it is expressed by the 
equation : — 

£f ss K(a - x) I a SB initial amount of sugar. 

I a whercJ x = amount already inverted. 

or K = -^log« a - X I * *= '*"*® which has elapsed since the reaction started. 

This law has been carefully verified experimentally: the above 
expression is the simplest type of mass action equation. The velocity 
constant K represents the rate at which the sugar is inverted. 

Cane sugar is hydrolysed at very different rates by different acids. 
If the acids are classified in order according to their power of hydro- 
lysing sucrose they will be found to be also arranged according to 

^ It is outside the limits of this monograph to do more than indicate the salient features 
of hydrolysis. A most valuable and complete summary of the literature bearing on the 
subject with a bibliography complete up to 1906 is contained in a report presented by R. J. 
Caldwell to the British Association at York, 1906. 

84 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 



85 



their electrical conductivity and power of hydrolysing methyl acetate. 
This fact was first recc^nised by Ostwald in 1884. Other disac- 
charides and the glucosides are also hydrolysed by acids in accordance 
with Wilhelmy's law, but hydrolysis takes place far more slowly than 
in the case of cane sugar. Indeed, whereas cane sugar is rapidly 
hydrolysed by normal sulphuric acid at 20'', milk sugar requires pro- 
longed heating at 80'' to effect the same proportion of change. Arm- 
strong and Caldwell give the relative ease with which hydrolysis 
takes place as milk sugar i, maltose 1*27, cane sugar 1240. Other 
figures relating to the glucosides are given in Table X. : — 

TABLE X. 



Compound. 


Relative Rate of 
Hydrolysis. 


a-Methyl glucoside 
i8-Methyl glucoside 
a-Methyl galactoside , 
)3-Methyl galactoside . 

Salicin 

Maltose . 

Milk sugar 




100 
179 

542 
884 

601 

740 

582 



The rate of hydrolysis of the other disaccharides mentioned on 
p. 59 has not yet been determined, but it is known that trehalose is 
only hydrolysed with excessive difficulty and differs therefore markedly 
from cane sugar. 

The relative strength of acids as measured by their inverting power 
is dependent on the nature of the sugar by means of which the com- 
parison is made, and even with the same sugar the ratio is different at 
diflferent temperatures. The following table compiled by Caldwell 
illustrates this point It would, however, lead too far to discuss the 
significance of these observations here. 

TABLE XI. 



Sogar Hydrolysed. 


Temp. 


Relative Activities of the Acids. 


HCl. 


H8SO4. 


HaCs04. 


Camphor- 

Sulpbonic 

(Reychler). 


Sucrobe . 

Salicin .... 
Maltose .... 
Lactose .... 
(Conductiv.ty) . 


25** 

95" 

74° 
60° 

25° 


100 
100 
100 
100 
100 


537 

49*9 

40*5 

477 
61*9 


l8*2 

23-3 
141 

197 


1 
89-8 

68-6 



86 CARBOHYDRATES 

The foregoing data (Table X.), though at present somewhat scanty, 
afford important material for the discussion of the nature of the hydro- 
lytic process. Considering the hydrolysis of the glucosides two views 
are possible, either (i) that the compound behaves much as the simple 
ether CH, . O . CH3 would, and that the hydrolyst becomes associated 
With the oxygen atom to which the CH3 group is attached ; or (2) that 
the attachment is to the oxygen atom in the ring. On the former 
view the two isomeric a- and ^S-glucosides should be hydrolysed with 
equal readiness as the methoxyl groups are equally weighted in the 
a- and fi- positions. 

Actually in the case of both glucose and galactose the ^S-derivative 
is hydrolysed about 1*75 times as readily as the a-derivative, and, as 
there is every reason for thinking that the mechanism of change- is the 
same in both cases, the difference in the rate of hydrolysis can only 
be due in main to the relative distances of the OCH3 gfroups from the 
centre of change. 

There is little doubt that the active system, within which change 
takes place, is formed by the association of acid-water molecules with 
the oxygen atom in the pentaphane ring. Oxonium compounds are 
formed of the type already discussed at lengfth on pp. 19, 22. In 
other words, this oxygen is the centre from which attack proceeds. 

Reference to a solid model will readily show that a distinct differ- 
ence exists in the relative distances of the - OCH3 group, when in the 
Or- and )8- positions, from the oxygen atom in the ring ; this is but im- 
perfectly rendered on a plane surface. 

\C . OCH, 




HO 




IH, . OH CH, . OH 

CK-Methyl glucoside. /S-Methyl glucoside. 

The a-methyl glucoside, since it is the most stable form, may be 
assumed to be that in which the methoxyl (OCH3) group is furthest 
removed from the pentaphane oxygen as shown above : conversely, 
the ^-glucoside will be that in which the methoxyl is nearest the 
oxygen centre. 

It must be assumed in the case of the galactosides, which are more 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 87 

readily hydrolysed than the glucosides, that the interchange in the posi- 
tion of the groups attached to the 7-carbon atom, which involves a shift 
in the position of the ring, brings the pentaphane oxygen nearer the 
methoxyl group (p. 9) and so facilitates action. It is impossible to 
represent such a change on a plane surface, but it will be readily under- 
stood on reference to the model. 

The application of this line of argument to the disaccharides pro- 
mises most interesting results. 

In cane sugar, for example, attack may be expected to proceed 
from both pentaphane oxygen centres, marked X and Y in the skeleton 
formula, towards the centre marked Z, at which scission of the molecule 
occurs : — 




X^ Y 

Glucose half of molecule. Fructose half of molecule. 

In the cane sugar formula already assumed, these three centres are 
in the closest possible contiguity : everything is in favour of hydro- 
lysis, which accordingly may be expected to take place with great 
rapidity. 

As elsewhere pointed out (p. 59), two types of reducing disac- 
charides may be formulated according to whether the primary or 
secondary alcohol group of one sugar is joined to the glucoside half 
of the molecule. These types may be formulated in skeleton thus : — 




X^ ^Y 

Type A. — Secondary alcohol junction. 




X^ Y 

Type B. — Primary alcohol junction. 

In disaccharides of type A, attack will proceed from centre X and 
to some extent from centre Y, though this is further removed from 
exercising influence than in the case of cane sugar. 



88 CARBOHYDRATES 

In disaccharides of type B, centre Y is still further removed from 
centre Z, and its influence may be supposed to be correspondingly 
weakened. Carbohydrates of this type will be least easily hydrolysed 

Differences introduced by the second hexose occupying the a- or /3- 
positions will mainly effect the distance XZ in the formula, ue.^ in 
practice they will increase or decrease the magnitude of the attack from 
the centre X, but they will also have an effect on the nearness of 
the centres Y and Z. As before mentioned, these reasonings are best 
followed with the aid of a solid model. 

It is possible on the basis of the foregoing argument to assign 
t3rpe formulae to maltose and lactose, but it would be premature 
to do so until the rate of hydrolysis of their isomerides has been de- 
termined. 

The laws of hydrolysis by enzymes have been dealt with by 
Bayliss (Monograph on Enzyme Action), and the details of the selec- 
tive action towards the disaccharides will be found in Chapters IV. and 
V. of this monograph. 

Enzymes are far more active as hydrolysing agents than acids, a 
very minute quantity at the ordinary temperature being far more 
powerful than very strong acid at a high temperature. 



It is perhaps desirable here to lay emphasis on the difference 
noticeable in the behaviour of enzymes and acids respectively as 
hydrolytic agents. It is due mainly, if not wholly, (i) to the superior 
affinity of the enzymes for the carbohydrates ; (2) to the very different 
behaviour of the two classes of hydrolysts towards water — which is 
a consequence of the colloid nature of the one and the crystalloid 
nature of the other. In other words, whereas there is competition 
between the solvent water and the carbohydrate for the acid, water 
has very little attraction for the enzyme : in consequence, practically 
the whole of the enzyme present is taking part in the operation of 
hydrolysis. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 89 



The Synthesis of Monosaccharides by Chemical Means. 

The synthetical preparation of natural dextro-glucose from its ele- 
ments may be justly claimed as one of the greatest achievements of 
the chemist, and it is enhanced in interest by the great biological im- 
portance of the carbohydrates. 

In the following section a brief outline is given of the operations 
performed in preparing glucose and fructose from their elements. 
Dealing first with the earlier work, the first attempt which Was in any 
way successful was that made by Butlerow, who showed that when 
trioxymethylene is condensed by means of lime water a syrupy sub- 
stance is obtained which has the properties of a sugar. Subsequently 
Loew improved the technique of the method and named the product 
he obtained formose. Fischer and Tafel started with acrolein dibromide 
and effected condensation of this by means of baryta, the change being 
expressed by the equation : — 

2C,H40Brs + 2Ba(0H), = C^Uifi^ + aBaBr, 

They showed that the syrupy product obtained contained two sugars 
distinguished as a- and ^S-^tcrose. Subsequently glycerose was made 
the starting-point for the synthesis ; crude glycerose is a mixture of 
glyceric aldehyde, CHj(OH). CH(OH) . CHO, and dihydroxyacetone, 
CH2(OH) . CO . CH3(OH), and these two compounds can be formulated 
as undergoing the " aldol " condensation forming a ketone, CH2(0H) . 
(CH . OH), . CO . CHg (OH), which has the same composition as fruc- 
tose, a- and )3-Acrose were obtained from this condensation and 
characterised by means of the osazones they formed with phenylhy- 
drazine. a-Acrosazone was found to posse^is a remarkable resemblance 
to glucosazone, differing only in being optically inactive. More recently 
Fenton has shown that glycoUic aldehyde, CHj(OH) . CHO, may be 
used as the starting-point of the synthetical process ; three molecules 
of it condense to o-acrose. 

A product of synthesis by all these methods is a-acrose. Fischer 
converted this firstly into acrose phenyl osazone in order to isolate it 
from the mixture of substances and then into acrosone by treatment 
with hydrochloric acid as described in Chapter II. Acrosone, on re- 
duction, yielded firstly a sweet syrup having all the properties of fruc- 
tose, and secondly on further reduction an alcohol, o-acritol, very like 



90 CARBOHYDRATES 

mannitol but diflFering in being optically inactive. There was no doubt 
that o-acrose was inactive dl-ftuctose. The further problem was to ob- 
tain an optically active sugar from this. The product was partially fer- 
mented with yeast and a dextro-rotatory sugar /-fructose was obtained, 
but this biological method did not lead to the isolation of the natural 
sugar. Indeed to obtain this a number of operations were necessary. 
^-Fructose was reduced to ^-mannitol and the latter oxidised to the 
corresponding acid, ^-mannonic acid. (This acid forms a character- 
istic hydrazide from which it can be easily regenerated) The racemic 
acid gave crystalline alkaloid salts and these were separated by frac- 
tional crystallisation ; in this manner their resolution into the optically 
active forms was effected just as was done by Pasteur in the case of race- 
mic tartaric acid, d- and /-Mannonic acids were thus obtained by the 
crystallisation of the strychnine or morphine salt of the synthetical 
racemic acid : by reduction of their lactones, they were converted into 
d- and /-mannose and the complete synthesis of these hexoses accom- 
plished. To pass to rf-fructose it only remained to reduce the mannosone 
(identical with glucosone) formed from rf-mannosephenyl osazone in 
the manner already described (compare Chap. IL). 

The synthetical mannonic acids above mentioned are converted 
into the corresponding gluconic acids when heated with pyridine or 
quinoline (see p. 35), and it was only necessary to reduce these acids 
to obtain the corresponding glucoses. The stages of these syntheses 
are summarised in the chart on page 91. 

Proceeding in this way Fischer effected the synthesis of the six 
hexoses derived from mannitol, and extended the methods to the 
synthesis of a number of isomeric hexoses which do not occur 
naturally. To-day, out of the sixteen possible isomeric aldohexoses, 
according to the Le Bel-Van't Hoff theory, fourteen have been pre- 
pared s)mthetically. 

Theoretically a simpler method of passing from fructose (a-acrose) 
to glucose and mannose is afforded by warming with alkali, when the 
isomeric transformations observed by Lobry de Bru5m take place. 
These are of particular interest in the case of sorbose, which is con- 
verted into galactose and tagatose. Sorbose belongs to the mannitol 
series, galactose to the dulcitol series, so that this transformation 
connects the hexoses derived from the two alcohols and indirectly 
effects the complete synthesis of all the sugars derived from dulcitol. 

Before this transformation was discovered Fischer found it neces- 
sary to degrade gulonic acid to the pentose sugar xylose, transform 
this into the isomeric lyxose and combine lyxose with hydrogen 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 



91 



Acroleindibromtde 



Formaldehyde 



Glyoerose 



Glycollic aldehyde 




o-Acrose 

I 

a-Acrosazone 

I 

a-Acro6one 

I 

if/-Fruct08e 




I'Fructoss 



dl'ManmicH 
<f/*Mannonic acid 




/-Mannonic acid 



if-Mannonic acid 



/•Gluconic acid 
UGlucosi 



l-Mannosi 



^/-Gluconic acid 
d'Glucosg 



d-Mannosi 
</-Gluco8azone 

I 

<i-Gluco6one 

I 

d-Fructos0 

cyanide to give>galactonic acid. It was onlylin this somewhat round- 
about fashion thatt the complete synthesis of galactose and other 
hexoses derived from dulcitol could be effected. 

The other products of synthesis, /9-acrose and formose, have not 
been further investigated. Fischer r^arded both of them as contain- 
ing a branched and not a straight chain of carbon atoms. Nef states 
that formose consists' of hexoses and pentoses in equal proportions. 

"Both glycollic aldehyde and dioxyacetone are produced when form- 
aldehyde is condensed by means of calcium carbonate, and H. and A. 
Euler have shown that a pentose, ^-arabinoketose, is the main product 
of this polymerisation. It is derived from the condensation of glycollic 
aldehyde and dihydroxyacetone. 

CH,(OH) . CHO + CO(CH, . OH), = CH,(0H) . [CH . OHl , CO . CHJOH) 

Arabinoketose has not yet been found among plant products. 



92 CARBOHYDRATES 



The Synthesis of Carbohydrates in the Plant. ^ 

Though the primary facts of the photochemical assimilation by the 
green leaf may be regarded as definitely established the full explanation 
of the process is still outstanding. Priestley (177 1), Ingenhouse (1779) 
and Senebier (1788) established that g^een plants acquire their carbon 
from carbonic acid ; De Saussure ( 1 804), Boussingaul t ( 1 86 1 ) showed that 
the volume of oxygen exhaled and that of carbon dioxide absorbed are 
approximately equal ; Sachs in 1862 proved that the first visible product 
of the process is starch. Brown and Morris (1893) showed that the 
first sugar which could be identified is sucrose, an observation confirmed 
by Parkin (191 1), and Usher and Priestley (1906) found that formalde- 
hyde is the first detectable compound of an aldehydic character. Baeyer 
in 1 870 advanced the hypothesis that formaldehyde formed by the re- 
duction of carbon dioxide is the first product of assimilation : the 
aldehyde is considered subse'quently to undergo polymerisation to car- 
bohydrate. 

Although this hypothesis is generally accepted as a working basis 
two difficulties have always been experienced ; firstly all attempts to 
prove the presence of formaldehyde in the green parts of plants have 
led to inconclusive results, and secondly the experiments made to 
ascertain whether plants can utilise this aldehyde directly as a source 
of carbohydrates have indicated that it acts as a poison. 

However, more recent investigation now enables both questions 
to be answered in the affirmative. Usher and Priestley claim to have 
obtained from leaves, which had been killed by immersion in boiling 
water, after exposure to light, sufficient formaldehyde to be detected 
by the usual tests. Their work has been criticised by Ewart, Mameli 
and Pollacci, but it has been confirmed by Schryver using Rimini's 
test for formaldehyde (the formation of a brilliant magenta colour with 
phenyl hydrazine hydrochloride, potassium ferricyanide and hydro- 
chloric acid). Schryver concludes that chlorophyll can form formal- 
dehyde directly, but that it rarely becomes sensible because it does not 
accumulate in the cell since it is withdrawn to form sugars as fast as 
it is formed. 

Glycollic and glyceric aldehydes and dihydroxyacetone are all in- 

^ A full account of the historical side of the question has been given by Meldola in a 
presidential address to the Chemical Society in igo6. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 93 

termediate stages in the laboratory synthesis of fructose from form- 
aldehyde, but there is no evidence of these being found among normal 
plant products. They have so far only been encountered as down- 
grade products of the action of certain bacteria on mannitol or glucose. 
Attempts to imitate in the laboratory the formation of formaldehyde 
from carbon dioxide and water 

H.CO, + aHjO -> CH,0 + 2H,0, 

have been numerous, but, if some controversial and very doubtful 
experiments be excepted, formic acid has been in all cases the sole 
product of the reduction. However, definite proof of the formation of 
formaldehyde has been recently g^ven by Fen ton (1907) who has 
shown that it is formed when carbon dioxide is reduced by means of 
metallic magnesium. 

This observation of Fenton is of interest when considered in relation 
to Willstatter's recent discovery that chlorophyll contains magnesium 
as an integral part of the molecule. He r^[ards the magnesium as 
playing just as important a rdle in the process of assimilation in plants 
as does the iron content' of haemoglobin in its function as oxygen 
carrier. 

Brown and Morris working with the leaves of Tropaeolum came to 
the somewhat unexpected conclusion that sucrose is the first sugar to 
be synthesised by the assimilatory processes. It functions in the first 
place as a temporary reserve material accumulating in the cell sap of 
the leaf parenchyma. As assimilation proceeds and the concentration 
of the cell sap exceeds a certain amount, which probably varies with 
the species of plant, starch is elaborated by the chloroplasts. This 
forms a more stable and permanent reserve material than the sucrose. 
Sucrose is translocated as glucose and fructose, starch as maltose, the 
latter process only taking place when the starvation of the cell has in- 
duced the dissolution of the starch by the leaf diastase. Maltose and 
glucose are the sugars which contribute most to the respiratory re- 
quirements of the leaf cell, glucose being more quickly used up than 
fructose. Probably a larger amount of fructose than of glucose passes 
out of the leaf into the stem in a given time. 

Parkin selected the leaves of the snowdrop {Galanthus niralis) for 
investigation since this leaf does not form starch except in the guard 
cells of the stomata, though the bulb contains starch and inulin in 
abundance. Maltose was also proved to be absent from the leaf. 
His analyses confirm Brown and Morris that sucrose is the first sugar 
to appear and that the hexoses arise from it by inversion. Here again 
the quantity of fructose in the leaf is almost invariably in excess of that 



94 CARBOHYDRATES 

of glucose. The total quantity of the hexoses remains remarkably 
constant 

The conclusion that sucrose is the first product of synthesis has 
been criticised adversely on the grounds that it may arise from maltose 
formed from the leaf starch and not from glucose and fructose. 
Brown and Morris have shown that sucrose is formed when barley 
embryos are fed on maltose but not when they are fed on glucose 
although in the latter case the plantlet is found to contain invert sugar. 
However, the fact that in the snowdrop leaf sucrose cannot be formed 
from maltose is claimed to dispose of this criticism.. 

Results contrary to those of Brown and Morris, and Parkin have 
been obtained by Strakosch who made use of microchemical methods 
for the identification of the carbohydrates in the leaf of the sugar 
beet He considered that glucose is the first sugar formed and that 
it is ultimately converted into sucrose and this into starch. Strakosch's 
experimental work does not carry conviction and it has been adversely 
criticised. 

Further evidence in the desired direction is afforded by the recent 
work of Campbell who has made an attempt to trace the cycle of 
events which occur in the leaf throughout the twenty-four hours' period 
of light and dark. The work which is full of difficulties experiment- 
ally is admittedly of a preliminary nature, but it is most suggestive in 
character ; it has been conducted on the leaves of mangold {Beta mari-- 
timd) collected during September, 1910. The leaves were collected 
every two hours, and the amount of hexoses, sucrose, maltose and 
starch determined in every sample. 

The hexoses do not fluctuate greatly in amount, but there is evid- 
ence that the leaf contains a constant percentage in the night-time 
and a higher percentage in the day. At sunrise (5.30 a.m.) the curve 
jumps suddenly from the one level to the other, and there is an equally 
sudden fall when the light goes in the evening. 

The amount of sucrose varies from 0*5 to 2-5 per cent (calculated 
on the dry matter of the leaf). The curve begins to rise at sunlight 
and continues to do so throughout the day until 6 p.m. when it 
steadily falls. It lags somewhat behind the hexose curve beginning 
the upward movement an hour later. 

Starch behaves very similarly to sucrose but the rise does not begin 
before 8 a.m. — a lag of three hours behind the hexoses. It continues to 
rise after dark till i o p.m. When the fall sets in maltose varies in amount 
in exactly the opposite manner to sucrose ; the amount increases dur- 
ing the night from 8 p.m. till dawn and falls again during the day. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 95 

The results suggest that the hexoses are the first carbohydrates to 
be formed as soon as daylight b^ns, and that from them in turn sucrose 
and starch are synthesised. The S3mthesis of sucrose does not begin 
till the amount of hexoses has reached the maximum ; starch is not 
formed till the sucrose has reached a certain concentration ; in other 
words, the more elaborate carbohydrate does not b^in to form until the 
siippler one has reached a certain concentration in the cell. This is 
in accord with the views expressed elsewhere (p. 96). Maltose is 
undoubtedly a down-grade product from the starch and the form in 
which it is translocated. 

Assuming that Baeyer's hypothesis is correct and that formaldehyde 
is the first product of the synthesis, two questions await an answer. 
Firstly, how is the condensation of the aldehyde caused ; secondly, 
through what intermediate stages do the compounds pass ? 

The vital synthesis differs essentially from that carried out in the 
laboratory in affording optically active products. It might be sup- 
posed that the plant manufactures inactive racemic hexose and uses the 
laevo-isomerides for purposes which are still unknown. In spite of 
frequent search, however, it has never been possible to detect /-glucose or 
/-fructose in the leaves of plants, and the work of Brown and Morris 
leaves hardly any doubt that hexoses of the rf-series and their poly- 
saccharides are the only products of assimilation.^ 

The living organism is not satisfied with merely elaborating a par- 
ticular sugar, but shapes it in a definite manner to a definite space con- 
figuration. 

Fischer has pictured the carbon dioxide or formaldehyde as enter- 
ing into combination with the complicated optically active protoplasm 
of the chlorophyll granule, and being synthesised to optically active 
carbohydrates under the influence of the asymmetry of the protoplasm 
molecule. 

The formaldehyde elements are received one after the other, and 
superposed according to a definite plan until six are united, when the 
completed dextro-glucose or fructose molecule is split off and the pro- 
cess begins anew, only optically active substances being formed. 
Synthesis by laboratory methods leads to optically inactive forms, 
though apparently chemical synthesis does not take place entirely 
symmetrically when several asymmetric carbon atoms are present. 
Fischer, for example, has failed to isolate any other racemic hexose 
than o-acrose (/8-acrose and formose being considered to have branched 

^ For the natural occurrence of <2Z-galactoee see p. 47. The natural pentoses belong 
to the Z-series. 



96 CARBOHYDRATES 

chains) from the condensation of formaldehyde or glycerose, whereas 
had this synthesis been entirely symmetric, several isomerides should 
have been formed at the same time. 

It is now generally agreed that the protoplasm of the chlorophyll 
granule contains enzyme elements, and that it is these which occasion 
synthesis. The protoplasmic complex may be regarded as built up of 
a series of associated templates (enzymes) which serve as patterns for 
the maintenance of vital processes and of growth. The assimilated 
carbon dioxide, either before or after condensation to formaldehyde, is 
brought into contact with these templates in the protoplasm, and con- 
tiguous molecules are united to form the complete sugar, shaped 
according to the structure of the template. The enzyme- specific for 
each particular hexose when incorporated in the protoplasmic complex 
may well serve as the template for its manu&cture. Maltase, for ex- 
ample, might occasion the formation of o-glucose, emulsin that of 
)3-^lucose, lactase that of galactose, and invertase, or some similar 
enzyme, that of fructose. The existence of contiguous maltase and 
invertase ^ branches in the protoplasmic complex might determine the 
formation of glucose and fructose in contiguity, and these might unite 
to cane sugar. Again two glucose molecules in contiguity might unite 
to maltose, or a series formed in contiguity might remain potentially 
active so that a number would unite and give rise to a starch molecule. 
Or- and /3-^lucose would remain as such so long as they were incorpo- 
rated with the protoplasm ; when split off into the cell fluid they would 
no doubt tend to pass over into the equilibrated mixture. 

Certain claims have been made in reference to the synthesis of 
carbohydrates from simple substances by means of sunlight or ultra- 
violet light. Thus glycerol in alkaline solution is partly converted 
into o-acrose (Bierry and Henri) after exposure to ultraviolet light ; 
after many months in sunlight sorbose has been obtained from a 
mixture of formaldehyde and oxalic acid (Inghilleri). 

^ Armstrong's recent researches suggest that invertase is compatible, at one and the 
same instant, with both glucose and fructose, so that its presence in the protoplasmic com- 
plex would, under suitable conditions, lead to the formation of cane sugar. As already 
noted (Chap. III.) Pottevin considers that fructose is compatible, not with invertase, but 
with a new enzyme. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 97 



The S]mthesis of Disaccharides. 

Although in the hands of Fischer the problem of the synthetical pre- 
paration of the natural simple carbohydrates — the monosaccharides — 
has been solved, the next step, the synthesis of the disaccharides, still 
awaits a satisfactory solution. 

The earliest synthetical disaccharide was obtained by Fischer by the 
action of cold concentrated hydrochloric acid on glucose. The com- 
pound obtained was termed isomaltose on account of the resemblance 
to maltose, from which it differed in being nonfermentable. The pro- 
cess had the disadvantage that it could not be controlled, so that only 
small quantities of disaccharide were formed together with considerable 
quantities of dextrin-like products. It was shown subsequently, as 
described later, that both maltose and isomaltose are formed by this 
process. A more hopeful method, based on Michael's glucoside syn- 
thesis, appeared to be the combination of acetochloro glucose with the 
sodium salt of a hexose. This method has been repeatedly used in 
attempting to synthesise cane sugar, and Marchlewski claimed to have 
been successful in artificially obtaining this sugar. Subsequent workers 
have found it impossible to confirm his results, and they are to be 
queried also for other reasons, chief of which is the observation of 
Fischer and Armstrong that o-compounds of glucose in presence of 
alkali undergo rearrangement to )8-compounds. These observers failed 
to prepare a-phenyl glucoside from o^cetochloro glucose and sodium 
phenolate, obtaining instead the fi-phenyl glucoside. Sucrose, a deriva- 
tive of o-glucose, should not therefore be formed. The evidence 
brought forward by Marchlewski in proof of the formation of cane 
sugar was also very inadequate. There are thus: no grounds for accept- 
ing this synthesis. 

By the interaction of acetochloro galactose with sodium glucosate 
or of acetochloro glucose with sodium galactosate, Fischer and Arm- 
strong obtained disaccharides of the type of maltose which they termed 
galactosido-^lucose and glucosido-^alactose. These sugars were suf- 
ficiently closely related to the natural products to be hydrolysed by 
enzymes. Top yeast was without action, bottom yeast was able to 
ferment both disaccharides. They were hydrolysed by emulsin, but 
not affected by maltase or invertase. Both reduced Fehling's solution, 
formed phenyl osazones and osones, but could not be obtained in a 

7 



98 CARBOHYDRATES 

crystalline state. The igalactosido-^lucose possessed very great simi- 
larity to the natural sugar melibiose both in structure, similarity of the 
phenyl and bromophenyl osazones and in physiological behaviour, and 
it is very probable that these, disacchar ides are identical. 

Quite recently Fischer and Delbriick have made use of /8-acetobromo 
glucose to effect the synthesis of disaccharides allied to trehalose. 
When acetobromo glucose is shaken in dry ethereal solution with silver 
carbonate and traces of water are added from time to time, bromine is 
eliminated and two molecules^ are joined through the intermediary of 
an oxygen atom to form an octacetyl disaccharide : 

This is obtained both crystalline and in an amorphous form, the latter 
being r^arded as a mixture of isomerides. 

These acetyl compounds when hydrolysed by cold barium hydroxide 
solution are converted into disaccharides. That from the crystalline 
acetate, termedi isotrehalose, differs from trehalose in optical rotatory 
power [a]o - 93•4^ but/esembles it closely in chemical properties. It 
is a colourless amorphous powder, which does not reduce Fehling's 
solution and is easily hydrolysed to glucose when boiled with dilute 
mineral acids. The • disaccharide from the amorphous acetate is re- 
garded as a mixture, it has [aj^ about - I*3^ It is remarkable in being 
partially hydrolysed both by yeast j extract and by emulsin. 

Consideration of the constitutional formula of trehalose — 



CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHv 
CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH{OH) . Ch/ 

I . — o ! 

shows that three stereoisomerides are possible as the two carbons in 
clarendon type are asymmetric. Using the prefixes a and fi in the 
same sense as in the acetobromo glucoses, these isomerides may be 
•described as aa, fifi or afi, according as the constituent glucoses are 
present in the aor fi form. The behaviour of the new sugars towards 
enzymes may possibly be expected to give a clue to their structure. 

The same method has been extended by Fischer to the synthesis of 
non-reducing tetrasaccharides from acetobromo lactose and acetobromo 
cellobiose. In both cases the products were contaminated with re- 
ducing disaccharide and they could not be purified. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 99 

Sjrnthesis by Enzymes. 

Far more interesting than the above method of synthesis is that 
effected by means of enzymes. There can be no doubt that, in the 
plant, enzymes function as synthetical agents. 

The first to observe the synthetical or, as he termed it, reversible 
action of enzymes was Croft Hill. Hill proved that the hydrolysis 
of maltose by dried yeast extract in concentrated solutions was not 
complete, and that, starting from glucose alone in concentrated solu- 
tion, a disaccharide was produced by the action of maltase. This sugar 
he at first considered to be maltose, a conclusion controverted by Em- 
merling, who, repeating Croft Hill's experiments, considered the product 
to be £f(7maltose identical with that obtained by Fischer by the action 
of acid on glucose. Subsequently Croft Hill admitted the chief pro- 
duct to be an isomeride of maltose, but he r^arded it as different from 
isomaltose and termed it revertose. He still claimed that .maltose is 
also formed in small quantity. E. F. Armstrong considers that the 
product of the synthetical action of maltase on glucose is isamsAtosQ 
identical with that produced by the action of hydrochloric acid on 
glucose, and shows that the two products agree in being hydrolysed 
by emulsin though not by maltase. They are accordingly r^^arded 
as having the structure of glucose )8-glucosides. Croft Hill showed 
that his synthetical product was almost completely hydrolysed on 
dilution, indicating that the process is reversible, or that at all events 
the same mixture of enzymes which effects synthesis is able to hydro- 
lyse the synthetic product An explanation of the removal of the 
isomaltose, a fact which it was at first somewhat difficult to bring into 
line, is perhaps afforded by the discovery of emulsin in yeast by Henry 
and Auld. 

A disaccharide is also formed when a mixture of glucose and 
galactose in concentrated solution is left in contact with lactase. This 
is undoubtedly isomeric with milk sugar but differs from it in being 
completely fermented by bottom yeast. 

The process by which a monosaccharide is converted into a disac- 
charide in presence of a synthetical catalyst must be regarded as pre- 
cisely similar to that by which a- and /8-glucoses are converted into 
the two methyl-glucosides. Glucose on condensation should give rise 
to both maltose and isomaltose synthesised from a- and )8-glucose 
respectively. The proportion of each ultimately present in the equi- 
librium will depend to some extent on the proportions of the two 
glucoses in their equilibrated mixture and on their (possibly unequal) 

7* 



lOO CARBOHYDRATES 

ratesi of condensation. This reasoning should apply so long as the 
condensation is uncontrolled. Inasmuch as hydrolysis under the in- 
fluence of enzymes is an absolutely selective process, as opposed to 
hydrolysis by acids which is general in character, it is to be supposed 
that synthesis under the influence of enzymes is likewise a controlled 
operation. 

The proof that hydrochloric acid forms both tr^maltose and maltose 
fiom glucose was first given- by E. F. Armstrong. The method of 
purification of the synthetical isomaltose mixture adopted by Fischer, 
w!ar., fermentation of the neutralised product with brewers* yeast, 
would have destroyed any maltose which had been formed. Armstrong 
fermented a portion of the product with 5. Marxianus^ a yeast which 
does not contain maltase and therefore is without action on maltose, 
in order to destroy the unchanged glucose. The resulting solution con- 
tained both maltose and £r(7maltose, and was partially hydrolysed by 
both maltase and emulsin. To remove the tr^maltose it was submitted 
to the joint action of emulsin and S. Marxianus. It was not 
found possible to obtain the maltose in a crystalline condition from 
this solution, but the character of the osazone formed and the 
biological behaviour of the sugar leave little doubt of the presence 
of this sugar. Another portion of the original synthetical sugar was 
fermented with S, intemudians^ and so freed from glucose and mal- 
tose. The resulting flfomaltose solution behaved in all respects as de- 
scribed by Fischer, 

The manner of the synthesis by enzymes is still a matter of 
dispute. It is urged on the one hand that enzymes produce by 
synthesis the same bodies which they hydrolyse ; on the other hand, 
it is suggested that the action of the enzyme is restricted to the 
formation of a compound isomeric with that normally hydrolysed by 
the enzyme. A third* view is that altogether distinct enzymes effect 
synthesis. 

The arguments in favour of accepting the first view have been 
clearly put by Bayliss (see the Monograph on Enzyme Action in this 
series), and need not be repeated here. 

The question is complicated by the fact that the catalysts used are 
all mixtures of several enzymes. Yeast extract (maltase) contains at 
least five sucroclasts; emulsin, according to a recent work, at least 
three — prunase, amygdalase and lactase. 

Armstrong has shown that the main product in the case of the 
action of yeast extract on glucose is isomaltose ; in the case of emulsin 
the main product is maltose. Whilst it could not be definitely asserted 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS loi 

that the isomerides were not also fonned, their amount in any case must 
have been small. 

Bayliss' contention that, if the synthetic body is incapable of being 
hydrolysed by the enzymes present, action should continue until all 
the glucose is converted into disaccharide, does not sufficiently take 
into account the equilibrium resulting from the combination of enzyme 
and sugar and the great retarding influence of glucose — both thoroughly 
established facts. Further, each molecule of disaccharide formed 
liberates a molecule of water, thereby diluting the solution and lessen- 
ing the opportunity for synthetic action. Lastly, enzyme extracts, 
unlike inorganic catalysts, do not remain of constant strength. 

It is difficult to attribute the formation of isomaltose in Croft 
Hill's experiments entirely to emulsin. The amount in brewers' yeast 
is but small ; Henry and Auld demonstrated its presence under very 
special conditions. A cold-water extract of the dried yeasts used by 
the writer has never been found to have any hydrolytic action on 
;8-methyl glucoside. 

The problem is somewhat more simple in the case of the synthesis 
of glucosides by emulsin : amygdalin from mandelonitrile glucoside 
and glucose (Emmerling), salicin from saligenin and glucose (Visser) 
being claimed to have been obtained in this manner. Van't Hoff in 
191 o has added glycerol glucoside. 

The reaction — 

alcohol 4- glncoM ^ glucoeide 4- water 

is practically thermoneutral and may be compared to the formation oi 
ester from alcohpl and acid. The classical experiments of Menschut- 
kin have taught the close relationship between the constitution of the 
alcohols and the limit of esterification. Using equimolecular quantities 
of alcohols with the same acid, primary alcohols yield about 80 per 
cent, of ester, secondary alcohols some 50 per cent and tertiary alcohols 
only 10 per cent, of ester. Van't HolRF has proved that the constitution 
of the alcohol has the same effect in the formation of glucosides. 

The formation of glucoside is attended by expansion so that a ready 
means was afforded of accurately measuring change. In the case of 
salicin a mixture, made of salicin, saligenin and emulsin and wetted 
with a solution saturated with glucose, salicin and saligenin was placed 
in a dilatometer kept at 37^ The contraction observed corresponded 
to complete hydrolysis of the salicin : similar results were obtained 
with arbutin and aesculin, no indication of s}mthetical action (expan- 
sion) being observed. This is in conformity with the general ex- 
perience as to the possibility of completely hydrolysing these glucosides 



1 02 CARBOHYDRATES 

in dilute solution, and proves that emulsin acts normally as a hydrolys- 
ing agent even in the most concentrated solution. The tertiary glu- 
cosides are accordingly not synthesised from concentrated solutions of 
their components. 

But few secondary glucosides other than amygdalin and the man- 
delonitrile glucosides are of natural occurrence and natural primary 
glucosides are unknown. Resource was therefore had to synthetic 
glucosides, in particular glycerol glucoside. A mixture containing 
glucose, glycerol and water in the proportion of 2 : 4 : i with emulsin 
rapidly became converted into glucoside until some 70 per cent, was 
present in this form. The analogy of glucoside and ester formation is 
therefore complete. Van't HofFs synthesis of glycerol glucoside has 
been confirmed by Bayliss. 

Van't HofFs results would suggest that in the case of the enzyme 
synthesis of a disaccharide the one reacting glucose molecule is acting 
as a primary alcohol. In other words, the junction between the two 
molecules is of type B (p. 87). 

It will be observed that in no case has the synthetic glucoside been 
isolated and the identity with the natural product confirmed. The 
claims of synthetic action are based on certain changes in the optical 
rotatory power or reducing action, and in certain cases — the reputed 
syntheses of salicin and cane sugar — they are without foundation. 

Van't Hoff has established the important point that, even in a solu- 
tion completely saturated with glucose, emulsin can act as a hydrolytic 
agent. This fact is completely in opposition to the view advocated by 
Bayliss that the change is a reversible one depending on the attainment 
of an equilibrium. 

The question cannot be discussed here at greater length, but 
obviously much experimental work remains to be done before it can 
be settled. The fact that enzymes bring about a controlled synthesis 
of disaccharides is, however, clearly established. 

The third view that synthesis and hydrolysis are effected by different 
enzymes, though not overlooked by earlier workers, has been brought 
into prominence by the recent experimental work of Rosenthaler. 
Emulsin in presence of hydrogen cyanide and benzaldehyde brings 
about the formation of optically active benzaldehyde cyanohydrin, a 
substance which it also hydrolyses. Saturation of the enzyme solution 
with magnesium sulphate or half-saturation with ammonium sulphate 
produces a precipitate which is soluble in water. The filtrate has no 
synthetic activity, but is able to effect hydrolysis as before ; the pre- 
cipitate possesses synthetic activity and some hydrolytic activity. It 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 103 

is ccmsidered by Rosenthaler that emulsin consists of two distinct 
enzymes, one promoting synthesis, the other causing hydrolysis of 
benzaldehyde cyanohydrin. 

An interestir^ synthesis of salicin and other glucosides is that 
studied by Ciamician and Ravenna. When plants — well-grown maize 
plants were chosen — are inoculated with glucosides or their aromatic 
products of hydrolysis a^ reversible change takes place resulting in a 
chemical equilibrium. Salicin is in part hydrolysed, satigenin in part 
transformed into salicin, the final ratio in the full grown plant of com- 
bined to free saligenin being i : 2. On taking a large number of plants 
it was possible toisolate the salicin synthesised in this manner. Con- 
firmation of this work appears desirable; 



CHAPTER VII. 

THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES. 

The term glucoside is applied to a large number of bodies having 
the property in common of furnishing a glucose and one or more other 
products when hydrolysed by acids. They are resolved with the addi- 
tion of the elements of water into simpler compounds. Representatives 
of nearly every class of organic compound occur in plants, chiefly in 
the fruit, bark and roots, in combination with a sugar which is in most 
cases dextroglucose. These compounds are glucose ethers of alcohols, 
acids, phenols, etc ; they correspond in structure to the simple methyl 
glucosides, and the general formula of a glucoside is accordingly 
written : — 

R— O— CH . [CH . OHl . CH . CH{OH) . CH,{OH) 




0' 

where R represents the organic radicle. It is noteworthy that the 
vegetable bases are only seldom found in the form of glucosides. 

The glucosides correspond to a certain extent to the paired glucu- 
ronic acid derivatives previously mentioned. In both instances more 
or less reactive specific substances are combined with the sugar residue 
to form indifferent and frequently more soluble substances. 

Glucosides are obtained by extraction of the plant substance with 
water or alcohol, an operation often conveniently performed in a Soxh- 
let apparatus. It is necessary in the majority, of cases first to destroy 
the accompanying enzyme when water is used as solvent. If this 
operation be omitted the glucoside is destroyed in the process of ex- 
traction. The purification of the extract is often a matter of difficulty 
owing to the scanty proportion of glucoside present. 

The glucosides as a class are generally colourless crystalline solids, 
having a bitter taste and laevo-rotatory optical power. Some of the 
best-known glucosides are the amygdalin of the almond and other 
rosaceous plants, the salicin of the willow and the sinigrin of thp 
cruciferae. 

The glucosides are all hydrolysed by heating with mineral acids to 
sugar and an organic residue. They are decomposed at very different 

104 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 105 

rates, some glucosides(^^., gynocardin) being extremely resistant to 
acid hydrolysis. 

In the majority of cases the glycosides are hydrolysed by enzymes. 
The appropriate enzyme is contained in the same plant tissue, but in 
difTererit cells, gaining access to the glucoside only when the tissue is 
destroyed. A great number of such enzymes exist, but it is too much 
to say that each glucoside has a special enzyme for its decomposition. 
The best-known glucoside splitting enzymes are the emulsin of almonds 
and the myrosin of black mustard seeds. Both these enzymes can 
effect hydrolysis of a number of glucosides. 

Emulsin is especially wide in its action. Since it is the specific 
enzyme for )8-alkyl glucosides, all glucosides hydrolysed by it are 
regarded as derivatives of )3-glucose, though the fact that emulsin is a 
mixture of enzymes must not be lost sight of. No glucoside deriva- 
tive of a-glucose has so far been isolated. 

The hydrolysis of glucosides by myrosin is undoubtedly connected 
with their sulphur content. 

The majority of the glucosides are derived from dextro-glucose but 
since more attention has been paid to the group, glucosides derived 
from a number of other carbohydrates have been discovered in plants 
and there is little doubt that fresh investigation will extend their 
number. Glucosides are known which are derived from d and /-ara- 
binose, /-xylose, rf-ribose, from rhamnose and other methyl pentoses 
and from galactose, mannose and fructose. Glucosides containing 
carbohydrates other than glucose require special enzymes to effect 
their hydrolysis. 

Galactose has been identified in convallamarin, digitonin, robinin, 
sapotoxin, solanin. Mannose is found only in strophantin. 

Fructose is found in alliin (from garlic), and in the saponins 
from Sapindus rarak and Aesculus hippocastanum. 

Rhamnose is a constituent of baptisin, convallamarin, datiscin, 
franguHn, fustin, glycyphyllin, hesperidin, kampheritrin, ouabain, 
naringin, quercitrin, robinin, rutin, Sapindus-sdi^vim, solanin, strophan- 
tin, trifolin, turpethein, xanthorhamnin. 

Pentoses or methylpentoses have also been found in antiarin, 
barbaloin, convolvulin, gentiin, jesterin, quinovin, saponin, turpethein, 
vemin, vicianin. 

Some glucosides yield two or more monosaccharides on hydrolysis. 
In such cases these are united as di- or trisaccharides. Using appro- 
priate enzymes, the sugar groups may be removed one at a time, and 
new glucosides are formed. Thus amygdalin contains two glucose 



io6 CARBOHYDRATES 

residues, one of which is removed by an enzyme present in yeast and 
termed amygdalase. The new glucoside so formed was termed 
mandelonitrile glucoside : it has since been found in plants and named 
prunasin. 

Both on account of the very small quantity of a glucoside usually 
present in a plant, and the fact that glucosides do not as a rule form 
insoluble characteristic derivatives which allow of their isolation, it is 
difficult to discover new glucosides and still more so to determine 
their nature. The introduction of biochemical methods has much 
facilitated work of this kind. Bourquelofs biological method has led 
to the discovery of several new glucosides, and ter Meulen has estab- 
lished the nature of the sugar component in several instances. Ter 
Meulen makes use of the fact (p. 79) that an enzyme is only com- 
patible with and therefore only enters into combination with that 
sugar, the simple glucosidic compounds of which it is able to hydrolyse. 
He has investigated the rate of hydrolysis of a glucoside by the 
appropriate enzyme in presence of a number of the simple sugars. 
Only one of these sugars retards the change ; the others are almost 
without influence. The glucoside in question is considered to be a 
derivative of that sugar which retarded the hydrolysis. 

For instance, rhamninose alone retards the hydrolysis of xantho- 
rhamnin ; glucose alone retards the decomposition of salicin or of 
amygdalin. In the case of glucosides of which the nature of the sugar 
component was not absolutely established, it was shown that aesculin, 
arbutin, coniferin, indican, sinigrin and several other glucosides con- 
taining mustard oils are derivatives of ^glucose. 

Bourquelot's biological method of examining plants for glucosides 
consists in the addition of emulsin to an extract of the plant and the 
determination of the changes in optical rotation and cupric reducing 
power after a period of incubation. A change indicates the presence 
of )3-glucosides and its magnitude gives a rough indication of their 
quantity. 

In this manner taxicatin, CiaHggOy, has been discovered in Taxus 
baccata (Lefebvre) and the presence of aucubin demonstrated in a 
number of species of plantago (Bourdier). 

The use of invertase in the same manner affords a test for the 
presence of sucrose or raffinose. 

A number of the better-known glucosides are given in the follow- 
ing table which also shows the products of hydrolysis. They are 
classified under alcohols, phenols, aldehydes, etc., according to the 
nature of the non-sugar part of the molecule (see Table XII., p. 107). 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES ro? 
TABLE XII. 
Natukal OLUcosiDta. 



0>™id.. 


m.p. 


pTdddcli 0( Hrdiolydi. 








PAmaJi. 


Aibadn . 




lif 




Bapti^n. 




a40° 


RhamnoBc + bapdgenin 

RhuonoM + phlotetCn 


S'i^Sff" 




175° 




"5' 


RhamnoM + a glucose + heaperetin 


iridiT . 




ao8" 


Glucose + uigenin 


Methyl ubntii 




17S= 




Naiinein 
Phloriaiin 




iTo" 


Rhanmoie + ftucoK + aariKcnin 


ICH^O,, 


170- 








Alaikoli. 


Comferin 


. C„H„0, 


185" 


Glocote + conifeiyt alccdiol 
QlucMc + laligenin + benioic acid 


ffii": 


■C^H>0^ 


i8o» 


:^k^> 




GlacOK + uligenin 


Syriogia 


igi- 


GlDCOM + .yiingenm 








Aldtkyda. 






300" 




Dhurrin . 








Helidn . 








Linamarin 




.41' 




Pnibuinain 




laa" 


Pmnasin 




•47° 








193° 








151° 




Viciwiin. 




iGo" 


Atids. 


Convolvnlin 


'■^^, 


130- 






100° 




il?^„.. 




131° 




. C„H„0„ 




Rhamnoae + mannoBe + Bliophantidin 








Oxycumarin Dirivativis. 


Aesculin. 


. C„Hu,0, 


305° 




DjV>hniD 


■C^H^^ 


200° 




Fraiin . 


 Ci,H„0„ 


3ao° 


Glucose + fraxetin 


Scopolin 


 ^hX. 


a.8- 


3 Glucoae + scopolctin 


Skimmln 


. cSh„o, 


210 


Glncose + Bkiiiunetin 


Frangulin 


 C«H„0, 


aaa- 


Rhamnoae + emodin 




 C„H„0„ 


3«= 


Gluco«e.+ emodin 


Kaboythric u 


id .C^H^O,. 


338" 


Glucose + aliiarin 

Oxyfiavotu DerivoHvu. 


Apiin . 




«ar 


ApiOBC + apigcnin 


FnBtiD . 




ai8" 


Rhamnose + fisetin 


Gonypitrin 












a+a" 








"if 


Glucose + queicetin 


LotuBin . 








Querdineritrin 
Qoerdtrin 




247° 


Glucose + qocrcetin 




183° 


Rhamnoae + quercetin 


Rutin . 




"V 


Glucose + ttuunnose -«■ quercetin 


Seiotin . 




245° 


Glucose + quercetin 


Sophorin 












— 


a Rhamnose + galactose + rhamnetin 



CARBOHYDRATES 



TABLE XII. (<oittii»M<l). 



QltwMid*. 


n.,p. 










Uuiiard OiU. 




_ 


OlucoM + sinapin acid sulphate + uriivl- 


SnuUbin: 


. C»H.O^.S, 


138" 


Sinigrin . 


. C^mO,NS^ 


136' 








VarioHS. 


Aucubin. 




_ 












CalmaUniUn 




'44° 




DadscelD 




.3J> 


Rhamnose + datiscetin 






21-f 


Olncoee + digiulose + digitaligenin 


Digitonin 




325° 




Digitoxiii 




145° 




Gentiin . 




374° 


Glucose + nyloM + §enden[n 


Oentiopioin 




igi" 


GlucoM + genliogenin 


GynocMdiii 




iSa" 


GlncoM + HCN + C^O, * 


Indican . 




100° 


Glucose + indonyl 










QQinorio 






GlucoBc + gapooaretin 


Sapoaarin 






Saponins 






Vemin . 


: C„HuO,N, 


— 


if-RiboM + guanine 



The better-known glucoside-splitting enzymes are grouped in Table 
XIII. together with the glucosides they decompose. Emulsin from 
almonds hydrolyses aesculin, amygdalin, androsin, arbutin, aucutun, 
bankankosin, calmatambin, coniferin, daphnin, dhurrin, gendopicrin, 
helicin, jncarnatrin, indican, melatin, oleuropein, picein, prulaurasin, 
prunasin, salicin, sambunigrin, syringin, taxicatin, verbenaltn. 



TABLE Xin. 
Glucosidoclabtic Enzvkss. 



E^. 


HydralTin. 


Emuhin .... 
PninaK 

Linaae 

Kt. : : : : 


\Syn&etical ^-glucosides 
Prunasin and many other natuial 

gluc<«id« 

Gaultheiin 

Sinigiin and sulphur glucosides 
XanQioihamnin 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 109 



The Principal Glucosides. 

A few only of the glucosides have been selected for detailed com- 
ment, more particularly for the purpose of showing the relationship 
between their structure and their distribution in plants. Such data, 
when more complete, will afford preliminary material for the differentia- 
tion of species upon a purely chemical basis as has been indicated by 
Miss Wheldale. At present, since the knowledge of the glucosides is 
chiefly based on the investigation of substances used for medicinal 
purposes, only a beginning has been made in this direction. 

Arbutifiy a colourless, bitter, crystalline substance, is obtained, 
together with methyl arbutin, from the leaves of the bear berry, a small 
evergreen shrub (Arbutus uva urst)^ and from many genera in the 
EricaceiBy and yields hydroquinone and glucose when hydrolysed by 
means of emulsin or mineral acids : — 

CiiHwO, + H,0 = CgH,,Oe + C,H,0, 

Hydroquinone is a powerful antiseptic: hence the pharmacological 
value of arbutin, which has also a diuretic action. Methyl arbutin is 
one of the few glucosides which have been artificially synthesised. 
Michael prepared it by the interaction of hydroquinone methyl ether 
and acetochloro glucose. 

Commercial arbutin contains methyl arbutin ; to purify it, it is dis- 
solved in alcohol, precipitated by potassium hydroxide and the pre- 
cipitate, collected, washed and decomposed with calcium carbonate 
(H6rissey). 

When arbutin is hydrolysed by emulsin the quinol formed becomes 
slightly oxidised by the oxydase present in the enzyme and the solution 
darkens in colour. Methyl arbutin which yields quinol methyl ether 
on hydrolysis does not darken in solution. It is hydrolysed more 
rapidly than arbutin. 

Bourquelot and Fichtenholz have made an extensive study of the 
distribution of arbutin in the leaves of Pyrus species. Pear leaves 
{Pyrus communis) contain as much as i'2 to 1*4 per cent of th^ 
glucoside which can be extracted by ethyl acetate. None could be 
detected in Cydonia vulgaris^ Malus communis, Sorbus aucuparia, or 
S, torminalisy all of which were at one time classed with Pyrus : the 
modern classification is thus justified on biochemical grounds. 

The leaves of certain varieties of Pyrus turn black when they fall ; 
these contain arbutin which is hydrolysed to quinol by the leaf enzyme, 
the quinol in turn being acted on by an oxydase to form the black 
substance. In other varieties a golden yellow tint first appears which 



I lo CARBOHYDRATES 

then gives place to black. These varieties are shown to contain 
methyl arbutin, they produce at first a yellow and not a black oxida- 
tion product 

Pkloridxin, which is found in the bark of appl^ pear, cherry, plum 
and other rosaceous trees, is remarkable for the property it possesses 
of causing glycosuria when taken internally, Emulsin is without 
action on it : mineral acids form glucose and phloretin, CigH^^O^ which 
is a condensation product of;^-oxyhydratropic acid<and phloroglucinot. 

Phloridzin has the formula — 

(C,HuO,. 0){OH),C,H, . CO . CHMe . C,H,(OH) 

Phloretin is a component also of Glycypkyllin the glucostde of the 
leaves of Stmlax glycyphylla where it is combined with rhamnose. 

The phloroglucinol complex is present tn the aromatic part of a 
large number of glucosides. 

Saltan, a colourless, crystalline, bitter substance, is the active con- 
stituent of willow bark ; it has long been used as a remedy against 
fever and in cases of acute rheumatism. It is hydrolysed by emulsin 
to glucose and saligenin (<?-oxybenzyl alcohol), and has the formula 
CgHiiOj . O . C,H4 • CH,OH. Saligenin yields salicylic acid on oxi- 
dation, but has the advant^e of being less irritant than this acid or its 
salts, and therefore does not produce digestive disturbances when ad- 
ministered medicinally. 

Salicin occurs in many but not all species of ScUix, also in poplars 
and in the flower buds of meadow-sweet Spiraa ulmaria. In the 
willow it is found in the leaves and female flowers as well as in the 
bark ; the leaves and twigs of willows also contain a specific enzyme 
salicase which hydrolyses it (Sigmund). 

Salicin forms bromo and chloro derivatives which are hydrolysed 
by emu Is i a 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 1 1 1 

to yield a synthetic cyano^enetic glucoside from which a further series 
of glucosides were obtained. 

SalifUgriny the glucoside of i;i-hydroxy benzaldehyde, is isomeric 
with helicin. It was only found in one species (JSalix discolor) out of 
thirty-three samples of willow and poplar examined by Jowett and 
Potter. 

Gaultherin, the glucoside of methyl salicylate, is widely distributed 
in plants. It is not hydrolysed by emulsin, but gaultherase, the enzyme 
of Gaultheria procunibens and other plants, and mineral acids decom- 
pose it into glucose and methyl salicylate. 

Coniferin^ the glucoside of the fir-tree, is of importance as the start- 
ing-point for the synthesis of vanillin which is formed from it by oxi- 
dation with chromic acid. 

It yields glucose and coniferyl alcohol when hydrolysed by emulsin, 
and has the formula : — 

(C^HhOs . O) . CeHg(OMe) . CH : CH . CHtOH 

By careful oxidation glucovanillin is formed, and this may be oxi- 
dised to glucovanillic acid or reduced to glucovanillyl alcohol. All 
three glucosides are hydrolysed by emulsin. 

A methoxy coniferin is syringin^ the glucoside of the Syringa, which 
is likewise hydrolysed by emulsin to syringenin (methoxy coniferyl 
alcohol). 

Coumarin Glucosides. — Coumarin is very widely distributed in 
plants : there can be little doubt that this is present in the form of a 
glucoside but this has not yet been isolated. Several glucosides con- 
taining hydroxycoumarins are known. 

Skimming CigHi^Og, a constituent of Skimmiajaponicay is the gluco- 
side of 4-hydroxycoumarin (skimmetin), which is isomeric if not identical 
with umbelliferone. 

Aescultny C^^ifi^ found in horse-chestnut bark (Aescu/us hippocas- 
tanuni) and Daphnin^ a constituent of several* species of Daphne^ are 
glucosides of isomeric dihydroxy coumarins named aesculetin and 
daphnetin respectively. 

Scopolifiy present in Scopoliajapomca^ is aesculin monomethy 1 ether. 
It is said to contain two molecules of glucose. 

LimetHny the dimethyl ether of aesculin, is found in citrus. 

Fraxtfiy Ci^HigOio, found in the ash, and in species of Aesculus, 
IS the glucoside of a monomethyl ether of trihydroxycoumarin termed 
fraxetin. The position of the methyl group is uncertain. 

The following formulae show the relation of these glucosides : it 
is not known which hydroxyl is attached to the glucose residue : — 



112 CARBOHYDRATES 

CH : CH . CO CH : CH . CO CH : CH . CO CH : CH . CO 
O ' f\o ! /^O ^ OHfSO 






u 



OH k y k JOH OH \J + Me 

OH OH OH OH , 

Skimmetiii. Aesculetin. Daphnetin. Fraxetin. 

Hydroxyflayone Glucosides. 

These all give yellow dyes and in many of them the carbohydrate 
is rhamnose and not glucose. 

Apiin^ present in the leaves and seeds of parsley, celery, etc., is 
hydrolysed to glucose, the C^ carbohydrate apiose and apigenin 
C15H1QO5. 

HO/^\o .C.C,H^(OH) 

X II 4' 

Vv/CO . CH 

OH 

According to Perkin the sugar residue is united to the hydroxyl 
group marked x. 

Fustin, the glucoside of fustic {Rhus cotinus)^ is hydrolysed to rham- 
nose and two molecules of fisetin, CigHi^Og — 3, 3', 4' — trihydroxy- 
flavonal. / 

Ho/^0 .C.C.H,(OH), 

II 3'. 4' 

teO . C . OH 



u 



Gossypitrin^ont, of the glucosides present in Egyptian cotton flowers, 
yields glucose and gossypetin, CigHi^Og (Perkin). 

Incarnatrin, the glucoside of crimson clover {Trifolium incamatum\ 
is hydrolysed by emulsin to glucose and quercetin (Rogerson). 

Quercimeritrin, obtained from the flowers of Gossypium herbaceunty is 
composed of glucose and quercetin, CigHi^jO^, the sugar residue being 
united to one of the hydroxyl groups marked *. Acids hydrolyse it 
with difficulty. 

Ho/^^0 . C . CeH,(0H)2 

II 3'. 4^ 

'v/CO . C . OH 

OH 

* 

Quercitrifiy found in the bark of Quercus discolor^ is easily hydrolysed 
by acids to rhamnose and quercetin. 

Isoquerdtrin accompanies quercimeritrin in cotton flowers. It differs 
in being easily hydrolysed by acids to glucose and quercetin. 

Robininy the glucoside of the white azalea Robinia pseudacaciay is 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 113 

composed of glucose, rhamnose (two molecules) and robigenin, CigHioO^. 
It is closely related to quercitrin. 

Rutin^ which is widely distributed in plants, is hydrolysed with 
difficulty by acids to glucose, rhamnose and quercetin. 

Serotin, present in Prunus serotina^ is easily hydrolysed to glucose 
and quercetin. 

Xantkorhamnin, the glucoside of various species ofRhamnuSy is com- 
posed of galactose, rhamnose (two molecules) and rhamnettn CioHuOy — 
quercetin monomethylether (Tanret). 



MeO 



L JCO . C(OH) 
X 



Indican. 

Plants which yield indigo do not contain the colouring matter 
as such but in the form of a glucoside indican, which is readily ex- 
tracted from the leaf by means of acetone. Indican yields glucose 
and indoxyl on hydrolysis ; the indoxyl (colourless) undergoes further 
oxidation to indigotin (the blue colouring matter) : — 

CwH^OgN + HjO = CgH, A + CgH^GN 2C8H7ON + 02 = 2H,0 + CieH,oO,N, 
Indican. Glucose. Indoxyl. Indoicyl. Indigotin. 

Indigotin is readily obtained on hydrolysing indican with dilute 
acids containing a little ferric chloride as an oxygen carrier, but the 
yield under these conditions is not quantitative. In the plant an 
oxydase plays an important part in the formation of indigotin., 

Indican is also hydrolysed by a specific enzyme indimulsin, which 

is present in the leaves of the indigo plant. Emulsin also slowly 

hydrolyses indican, but its action is far less intense than that of the 

Indigo/era enzyme preparations. The yield of indigotin in this case is 

also below the theoretical, especially when hydrolysis is slow : this is 

due to the great instability of indoxyl and in part also to the occlusion 

of indoxyl by the enzyme. It may be improved by adding a small 

quantity of sulphuric acid to the mixture at the commencement of the 

reaction. Technically it is of the greatest importance that the yield 

of natural indigo obtained on the manufacturing scale be a maximum. 

8 



1 1 4 CARBOHYDRATES 



Digitalis Glucosides, 

The leaves of the foxglove {Digitalis purpured) contain at least five 
glucosides which form the active constituents of digitalis, but their 
nature has been but scantily investigated. Digitoxin, the most active 
principle, is insoluble in water ; on hydrolysis it forms digitoxigenin and 
a sugar, Q^yf!>^ digitoxose. Digitalin possesses in a high degree the 
physiol(^ical action of digitalis, decreasing the frequency and increas- 
ing the force of the beat of the heart ; it yields digitaligenin, glucose 
and digitalose, C7H14O5, on hydrolysis. 

Digitonin, which comprises one-half of the mixed glucosides of the 
seed, belongs to the saponins : it dissolves sparingly in water forming 
opalescent solutions which froth on agitation. It is hydrolysed to 
glucose (two molecules), galactose (two molecules) and digitogenin. 
Characteristic is the formation of a crystalline precipitate with 
cholesterol. 



Mustard Oil Glucosides. 

A number of plants belonging to the cruciferae yield glucosides 
containing sulphur. These give rise to mustard oils when hydrolysed 
by the enzyme myrosin which accompanies them in the plant. The 
best-known representatives of this class are sinigrin and sinalbin, 
found in the seeds of the black and white mustard. When the seed 
of black mustard is bruised and moistened, the odour of allylisothio- 
cyanate is easily recognised. The myrosin and the glucoside are con- 
tained in separate cells in the seed, and do not interact until brought 
together by the solvent. 

The recognition of an ethereal oil as the active principle of black 
mustard d^ttes from 1730 (Boerhave). Bussy was the first to isolate 
the glucoside, which he termed potassium myronate, and the accom- 
panying enzyme myrosin. Will and Komer gave the name sinigrin 
to the glucoside, and showed that it is hydrolysed to allylisothio- 
cyanate, glucose and potassium hydrogen sulphate. 

CioHjgOjNSjiK + H,0 = CjH, . NCS + C,H„0, + KHSO4 

Sinigrin was subsequently investigated in detail by Gadamer, who 
proposed the formula : — 

CjHb . N : C(S . CeHnOj) . O(SOsK) 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 115 

It is not hydrolysed by emulsin or by yeast extract or any knovm 
enzyme other than myrosin. As hydrolysis proceeds, the increasing 
quantity of acid potassium sulphate formed renders the ferment less 
active and ultimately stops its action. 

Guignard has very carefully investigated the localisation of myrosin 
in the plant It occurs in special cells with finely granular contents 
which are free from starch, chlorophyll, fatty matter and aleurone 
grains. 

Sinalbin is likewise hydrolysed by myrosin, which accompanies it 
in the seeds, to glucose, sinalbin mustard oil (^-hydroxybenzylisothio- 
cyanate) and acid sinapin sulphate : — 

C»H^0i5N,S, + H,0 = CeHMOe + CtH^O . NCS + CuH^ObN . HSO4 

Barium hydroxide converts acid sinapin sulphate into choline and 
sinapinic acid : — 

CeH2(0H)(0Me), . CH : CH . CO,H 

It is of interest that the alcohol corresponding with this acid is 
syringenin, a constituent of the glucoside syringin. 

Pentosides. 

Barbaloifiy CaoHjgOg, is hydrolysed to rf-arabinose and aloemodin 
CigHj^Og. This pentose was at first described under the name aloinose 
(Leger) : it affords one of the rare instances of the natural occurrence 
of both d and /-modifications of a carbohydrate {q.v. arabinose). l-Ara- 
binose is a constituent of the saponins as well as of gums and pentosans. 

Vemiftf CioHi805N5,2H20, is gfuanine^-ribose. Originally dis- 
covered by Schulze in the seeds of Lupinus lutenSy it was recognised 
as a pentoside by Schulze andCastoro. It is identical with the guanosin 
obtained by Levene and Jacobs from nucleic acid and with the pentoside 
obtained by Andrlik from molasses. The pentose was recognised as 
d?-ribose by Levene and Jacobs and used by them for the synthesis of 
^•^llose and ^-altrose. 



8 



ri6 CARBOHYDRATES 



I* 



Amygdalin is perhaps the best known and at the same time the 
most interesting of the glucosidesi ; it has fonned the subject of re- 
peated and fruitful investigation ever since its discovery seventy-nine 
years ago, and even to-day the exact structure is not satisfactorily 
established. It is an example of a glucoside which contains nitrogen ; 
on hydrolysis it yields benzaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide and two mole- 
cules of glucose. It is found in lai^e quantities in bitter almonds and 
in the kernels of apricots, peaches, plums and most fruits belonging to 
the Rosacea^. It is the antecedent of the so-called essence of bitter 
almonds, and is widely used as a flavouring material. Like most 
glucosides it is a colourless, crystalline, bitter substance soluble in 
water. 

The presence of hydrogen cyanide in the aqueous distillate of 
bitter almonds was observed at the very beginning of the nineteenth 
century by Bohm; the crystalline glucoside was first obtained by 
Robiquet and Boutron Charlard in 1830, who showed its connection 
with the essence of bitter almonds. 

In 1837 Liebig and Wohler found* that amygdalin was hydrolysed 
by a certain nitrogenous substance, also existing in the almond, to 
which they gave the name emulsin, in accordance with the equation — 

CaoH„0,iN + 2H2O = CyHjO + HCN + aCgHiPg 
Amygdalin. BenzaJfde- Hydrogen Glucose. 

hyde. cyanide. 

They proved it to be a glucoside of benzaldehyde cyanhydrin. 

Ludwig in 1856 pointed out that hot mineral acids hydrolyse 
amygdalin, giving rise to the same products as emulsin does. Schiff 
was the first to suggest that the two glucose molecules were united as 
a biose — 

CeHg . CH(CN) . O - C^U.fi^ . O . C^HiiOg, 

and this view became generally accepted when it was shown by 
Fischer that amygdalin may be resolved by an enzyme, contained in 
yeast extract, into a molecule of glucose and one of a new glucoside 
which he termed mandelonitrile glucoside — 

CgHj. CH(CN) . O— CgHiiOs 

Fischer came to the guarded conclusion that amygdalin was a deriva- 
tive either of maltose or of a closely related diglucose. The view that 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 117 

amygdalin is a maltoside has passed into the literature {cf. Dunstan 
and Henry, British Association Report jYork, 1906). 

Recent work, however, does not support this supposition. Neither 
in its behaviour towards enzymes nor in its chemical properties does 
amygdalin behave as a maltoside. 

When hydrolysed by means of strong hydrochloric acid, amygdalin 
gives /-mandelic acid, and Fischer's amygdonitrile glucoside is corre- 
spondingly ^-mandelonitrile glucoside.^ 

Amygdalin at first sight seems to present an exception to the rule 
dut enzymes which attack /9-glucosides are strictly without action on 
a-glucosides, and viu versd. Emulsin hydrolyses amygdalin at both 
glucose junctions ; an enzyme in yeast extract (maltase ?) also attacks 
one of these. This junction must either be attackabl^by two distinct 
enzymes, or the enzymes in question must be mixtures and contain 
a common constituent. The latter hypothesis has proved to be correct 

Caldwell and Courtauld, in the course of a[quantitative study of 
the hydrolysis of amygdalin by acids, showed tthat change takes place 
more readily at position Y in the molecule than^at position X, as indi- 
cated in the formula, 

CeH, . CH(CN)0 . CJA^JQ^ . O . CJR^^O^ 

The first product of acid hydrolysis is therefore the mandelonitrile gluco- 
side obtained by Fischer ; and this can be prepared in such manner. 
It was further shown that the action of yeast extract on amygdalin was 
due not to maltase but to the presence of a hitherto unknown enzyme 
appropriately termed amygdalase. This is more stable towards heat 
than maltase, and can be obtained almost free from maltase by prepar- 
ing the extract at an elevated temperature. 

The fact that an enzyme distinct from* maltase effects the hydro- 
lysis of amygdalin is clear proof that the glucoside does not contain 
maltose. Additional confirmation of this is afforded by the fact that 
the rate of hydrolysis of amygdalin either by amygdalase or by emulsin 
(ter Meulen) is not affected by the presence of maltose. This last 
sugar should have slowed the reaction had it been a constituent of the 
glucoside. 

When amygdalin is hydrolysed by emulsin it is not possible at 
any stage of the reaction to detect the presence of a diglucose. In 
realityr, under the influence of emulsin prepared from an aqueous 
extract of almonds, two actions are going on at the same time, w>., 
hydrolysis at the centre Y, forming mandelonitrile glucoside and 

^ According to the existing nomenclature /-mandelic acid forms J-mandelonitrile. 



1 1 8 CARBOHYDRATES 

glucose, and, more slowly, hydrolysis of the mandelonitrile glucoside 
at X, forming benzaldehyde cyanohydrin and glucose. By interrupting 
the hydrolysis at the proper point it is possible to isolate the mandelo- 
nitrile glucoside. Such experiments prove that almond extract con- 
tains amygdalase in addition to the emulsin proper, which hydrolyses 
/9-glucosides. Amygdalase is entirely without action on ^-glucosides. 

The second enzyme in emulsin has been found in the leaves of 
many plants where it occurs without amygdalase. Since it was first 
found in the leaves of the common cherry laurel it has been named 
prunase and the mandelonitrile glucoside on which it acts is termed 
prunasin. 

"Emulsin'* thus contains two enzymes, amygdalase and prunase 
which act in turn on amygdalin. It is a remarkable fact that prunase 
is unable to act until the molecule has first been simplified by the 
action of amygdalase : this is taken as proof that the second molecule 
of glucose in some^way shields the prunasin part of the molecule from 
attack by prunase. This explains the many unsuccessful attempts to 
obtain the disaccharide from amygdalin by means of plant enzymes. 

This protective influence does not appear to apply, however, in the 
case of the enzymes present in the intestinal juice of the snail which, 
according to Giaja, are able to hydro lyse amygdalin in the first place to 
benzaldehyde cyanohydrin and a disaccharide, the latter subsequently 
undergoing further hydrolysis. The new carbohydrate is stated riot to 
reduce Fehling's solution, that is, it is a disaccharide of the trehalose 
type. It has not been further investigated. 

The amygdalin molecule is exceptional in containing several centres, 
marked X, Y, Z in the formula, 

NC . CH Ph . O. CgHioO^ . O . C8Hu05» 
• Z X Y 

totally different in their chemical nature, which are attackable by 
hydrolytic agents; its behaviour is, therefore, of the very greatest 
interest. 

Amygdalin yields the same products glucose, benzaldehyde and 
hydrocyanic acid) -when treated with emulsin as when heated with 
dilute hydrochloric acid. In each instance the primary formation of 
rf-mandelonitrile glucoside indicates that the biose junction Y is the 
first point to be attacked. The course of hydrolysis by concentrated 
acids is altogether different (Walker and Krieble). Concentrated 
hydrochloric acid hydrolyses it to amygdalinic acid and ammonia in 
the first place at centre Z ; subsequently, the amygdalinic acid breaks 
down at junction Y to /-mandelic acid glucoside and glucose so that 



-1 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 119 

junction X is the last point to be attacked. Concentrated sulphuric 
acid has very little tendency to attack the nitrile group at Z, the 
primary action being to eliminate ^mandelonitrile. The biose junction 
Y is the point most susceptible of attack by sulphuric acid at all con- 
centrations. Sulphuric acid decomposes benzaldehyde cyanohydrin 
(junction Z) only with extreme difficulty. 

In addition to rf-mandelonitrile glucoside two other glucosides hav- 
ing the same composition are known. These are: prulaurasin, first 
described in the amorphous state under the name laurocerasin, and since 
obtained crystalline from the cherry laurel by H6rissey ; and sambunigrin, 
separated by Bourquelot and H6rissey from the leaves of the common 
elder (Samiucus fdgery These substances are both mandelonitrile 
glucosides ; their properties are set out in the following tablie : — 

TABLE XIV. 





M.-p. 


C«3d. 


Prunasin = dextro mandelonitrile glucoside .... 
Prulaurasin == racemic mandelonitrile glucoside . 
Sambunigrin := laevo mandelonitrile glucoside 


147-150*' 
120-122° 
151-152° 


-26-9° 

-52-7^ 

-76-3° 



Dunstan and Henry suggested that the differences between these lay 
in the nature of the sugar residue. This can hardly be the case, as 
they are all three attacked by emulsin, and therefore derivatives of 
/8-glucose. 

Prulaurasin is, in fact, a racemic mixture of the two stereoisomeric 
^j^and /-mandelonitrile ^-glucosides, and is analogous to isoamygdalin, 
the racemic form of amygdalin, which was first prepared by the action 
of alkali on amygdalin by Walker and subsequently studied by Dakin ; 
it yields inactive mandelic acid when hydrolysed by acids; indeed, 
prulaurasin is obtained by acting on isoamygdalin with yeast extract — 
amygdalase (H6rissey). Sambunigrin is the ^-glucoside of /-mandelo- 
nitrile glucoside, and derived from a still unknown isomeride of amyg- 
dalin. Prulaurasin is obtained from either of the other two isomerides, 
when their aqueous solutions are rendered slightly alkaline. 

The true relationship of these glucosides was first established by 
Caldwell and Courtauld, and their conclusions have been entirely con- 
firmed by Bourquelot and H6rissey. More recently amygdonitrile 
glucoside has been discovered as a natural product, so that all three 
isomerides must play some part in plant economy. H6rissey found 
it in the young branches of Cerasus Padus ; Power and Moore have 



120 



CARBOHYDRATES 



obtained it from wild cherry bark (Prunus serotina). It has been 
named prunasin. 

The inter-reiationship of these compounds is indicated in the ac- 
companying scheme. Possibly the unknown isomeride of amygdalin 
will also be found in the plant : — 



Amygdalin 



Isoamygdalin 



Unknown 



Amygdalate 



Prunasin 
£{-manddoaatrile glnconde 



^^ 



Amyg daiase 



Prulauraain 
<f/-fnande1onitrile 
glucoside 



Sambunigrin 
iHttflfideloiittrfle gloeotidt 




As mentioned above ordinary amygdalin, or as Walker terms it 
^amygdalin, is converted rapidly at the ordinary temperature by alkali 
into a much more soluble substance which yields racemic mahdelic 
acid when hydrolysed, together with a slight excess of dextro-mandelic 
acid. The simplest assumption that can be made regarding this 
diange is that it consists only in the racemisation of the mandelic 
asymmetric carbon atom. Recent experimaits of Walker and Krieble 
suggest, however, that other changes take {dace during racemisation, 
particularly when the solution is evaporated to dryness and so subjected 
to {M'otracted heating. Apparently the new product formed is stable 
towards emulsin, and it is suggested that an intramolecular change 
from a /9- into an o-glucoside has taken place creating a new isomeride 
of amygdalin. Amygdalin does not part with a glucose radicle when 
racemised^nd heated, nor is it hydrolysed to the ammonium salt of 
amygdalinic acid to any ^^eat extent. If confirmed, this transformation 
of /8- into a-^lucoside is of a very remarkable character. 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 121 



Cyanophoric 

Hydrocyanic acid has frequently been isolated from plants, but it 
is only quite recently that its formation has be^i ascribed invariably to 
the decomposition of a glucoside. Besides amygdalin and the isomeric 
mandelonitrile glucosides a number of other glucostdes have been 
isolated, which yield hydrogen cyanide when hydrolysed; diey are 
conveniently grouped together under the term cyanopboric glucosides. 
Although rare compared with the occurrence of saponin in plants the 
distribution of hydrogen cyanide is proving much widcf than was at 
one time imagined ; its production has been observed in many plants of 
economic importance. A useful list of plants which yield prussic acid 
has been compiled by GreshofT. Some of the cyanophoric glucosides 
'may be briefly mentioned. 

Dhurrin^ first isolated by Dunstan and Henry from the leaves and 
stems of the great millet, is a /artfJiydroxymandelonitrile glucoside, 
and therefore closely related to the three mandelonitrile glucosides 
just described. Like them it is hydrolysed by emulsin. 

Gynocardiny isolated by Power from the oleaginous seeds of Gyno^ 
cardia odorata^ yields prussic acid, glucose and an unknown substance, 
CgH804, on hydrolysis. It is accompanied in the seeds by an enzyme, 
gynocardase, which also decomposes amygdalin. 

Linamarin or Phaseolunatin was first isolated by Jorissen and Hairs 
from young flax plants and subsequently by Dunstan and Henry from 
Phaseolus lunatus. The latter authors consider it to be acetonecyano- 
hydrin-a^lucoside, but it has since been shown to be a derivative of ^- 
glucose. Hydrogen cyanide and acetone have been obtained from a 
number of plants on hydrolysis and possibly linamarin is widely dis- 
tributed. The glucoside is accompanied in plants by a specific enzyme 
linase which has been fully investigated by Armstrong and Eyre. 
Phaseolus lunatus contains two enzymes — an emulsin which, however, 
according to Dunstan, is without action on phaseolunatin and an enzyme 
of the maltase type which hydrolyses both phaseolunatin and amyg- 
dalin, forming mandelonitrile glucoside in the latter case. It is 
perhaps identical with the amygdalase described by Caldwell and 
Courtauld. 



122 



CARBOHYDRATES 



Lotusin discovered by Dunstan and Henry in Lotus arabicus is of 
interest for two reasons. Like amygdalin it gives rise to two mole- 
cules of glucose on hydrolysis and therefore probably contains a 
disaccharide. The other products of hydrolysis are prussic acid and 
lotoflavin — an isomeride of fisetin. In the alkaline hydrolysis one of 
the glucose residues is obtained «as heptagluconic acid, indicating that 
the cyanogen radicle is associated with the sugar residue. Lotusin is 
not hydrolysed by almond emulsin but it is resolved by an enzyme 
(lotase) which accompanies it, but as this also decomposes amygdalin 
and salicin it probably contains emulsin. 

Vidanin has been found only in the seeds of a wild vetch, Vicia 
angustifolia. It is decomposed by an enzyme (vicianase) present in 
certain vetches into hydrogen cyanide, benzaldehyde and a disaccharide, 
CiiHjqOio, vicianose, which is hydrolysed further by the emulsin of 
almonds into glucose and /-arabinose (Bertrand). Accordingly vici- 
anin represents amygdalin in which one molecule of glucose is re- 
placed by arabinose. 



THE NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 123 



The Sjrnthetic Glucosides. 

Several of the natural glucosides have been prepared synthetically, 
and by similar methods the corresponding glucosides of a variety of 
substances can be obtained. The starting-point for the synthesis of 
the natural glucosides was the crude acetochloro glucose prepared by 
CoUey (1870) by the action of acetyl chloride on glucose. Michael 
(1879) coupled this with the potassium salt of phenols, preparing in 
this manner phenyl glucoside, helicin, salicin and methylarbutin ; 
Drouin by the same method obtained the glucosides of thymol and 
a-naphthol. Fischer in 1893 obtained the alkyl glucosides from 
acetochloro glucose, but they are more easily prepared as described in 
Chapter I. 

Following the discovery of the crystalline a- and ^-acetochloro 
glucoses attempts were made to extend and improve Michael's syntheti- 
cal method, but were only successful in the case of the ^-compound. 
As already mentioned the a-acetochloro glucose in presence of alkali 
undergoes isomeric, rearrangement to the ^-acetochloro glucose, and 
accordingly ^-glucosides result instead of a-glucosides. 

Interesting ^-glucosides obtained by this method are those of 
menthol and bomeol: they represent the first synthetical terpene 
glucosides, and are closely allied to the terpene glucuronic acid com- 
pounds. By the interaction of ^-acetobromo glucose and the potassium 
salt of thiophenol, ^-thiophenol glucoside, C^HgS . C^HnOg, has been 
obtained. This is not hydrolysed by emulsin and is very resistant 
towards hydrolysis by dilute acids : it is the simplest representative of 
the sulphur glucosides. The acetochloro hexose synthesis has been 
extended to the preparation of derivatives of other sugars. Phenolic 
glucosides of galactose, maltose, arabinose and xylose, and also thio- 
phenol lactoside, have been obtained, all of which belong presumably 
to the )8-series. 

The appreciation of the importance of glucosides in plant metabol- 
ism has added new interest to their synthesis and several further 
representatives of the group have been obtained in crystalline condi- 
tion. Though no new methods have been suggested, the simplification 
in the preparation of acetobromo glucose has facilitated progress. 
Thus the /8-glucosides of cetyl alcohol, g/£r/(?hexanol, geraniol and 
glycollic acid have been described by Fischer and Helferich ; further. 



124 CARBOHYDRATES 

/8-^lycol glucoside, which is hydrolysed by emulsin, and menthol 
maltoside (E. and H. Fischer). Unna has prepared benzyl, menthol and 
bomeol-/8-galactosides ; Mauthner has synthesised glucovanillic acid 
and gluco-p-hydroxy benzoic acid. 

These syntheses will render a variety of materials available for 
the more exact study of the selective action of enzymes and the influ- 
ence exercised by the non-sugar group on the stability of the glucoside 
as already discussed in Chapter VI. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE FUNCTION OP CARBOHYDRATES AND OLUCOSIDBS IN PLANTS. 

Carbohydrates are of fundamental importance in plants: quite 
apart from the process of assimilation in which starch is formed, the 
carbohydrates and more particularly their glucosidic derivatives are 
now recognised as playing an all essential part in other physiological 
processes. Sufficient space is not available in the present monograph 
for more than a brief indication of some of the more developed branches 
of this field of inquiry in which work is now being done in many 
directions. 

The last few years have witnessed great progress in the novel in- 
terpretation of the function of glucosides as a means of keeping dormant 
substances of great importance in the metabolism of the plant until the 
precise moment at which they are required. The so-called respiratory 
and anthocyanin pigments are derived from glucosides, likewise many 
perfumes. Similarly a large class of substances, which are capable of 
acting as hormones and giving a very delicate but directed stimulus to 
plant metabolism, are constituents of glucosides. 

Since any particular glucoside is only hydrolysed by its specific en- 
zyme, the supply of these materials for whatever purpose they are re- 
quired is regulated by a very sensitive control. The glucoside-enzyme 
systems are to be regarded as constituting a controlling mechanism 
for plant metabolism. 

Significance of Glucosides. 

Opinions are divided as to the real significance of glucosides in 
plant economy. Probably they are of use to the plant in a variety of 
way3, and no one explanation will cover the functions of all the mem- 
bers of the group. 

In most, if not in all cases, the glucosides are accompanied by 

appropriate enzymes which are able to hydrolyse the glucoside. 

Enzyme and glucoside do not exist in the same cells as normally there 

is no decomposition. They are brought together should the cellular 

structure be damaged and in some instances during germination. 

las 



1 26 CARBOHYDRATES 

In the cherry-laurel, according to Guignard, " emulsin " exists in 
the endodermis ; in the almond, it is found in the axis of the embryo 
in the pericycle which lies immediately under the endodermis, and in 
the cotyledons in both the endodermis and the pericycle. Bourque- 
lot, who prepared both glucoside (gaultherin) and enz5mie from the 
stems of Manotropa^ showed they are not present in the same cells. 

The earliest investigations of this nature are due to Marshall Ward 
The fruits of the Persian berry {Rhamnus inftctorius) contain a glucoside 
known as xanthorhamnin, which, when hydrolysed, yields rhamnetin 
and the two sugars rhanmose and galactose. Marshall Ward and 
Dunlop showed that the seeds contain an enzyme, termed rhamnase, 
capable of hydrolysing the glucoside ; this is confined to the raphe of 
the seed, which is composed of parenchymatous cells containing a 
brilliant oily-looking colourless substance. When the pulp- or an 
extract of the pericarp of the fruit is digested with an extract of the 
seeds a copious yellow precipitate of rhamnetin is formed 

In very many cases glucosides function as reserve materials, and 
when required they are hydrolysed by the accompanying enzyme and 
pass into circulation. 

It would appear that the glucoside stored in the seed is often of 
a more complex character than that present in the leaves of the same 
plant, containing more than one sugar or two molecules of the same 
sugar in its molecule, whereas the leaf glucoside is a simple one. A 
special enzyme is required to hydrolyse it which is present only in the 
seed and absent from the leaf. 

Thus the seeds of Prunus species contain amygdalin together with 
the enzymes, amygdalase and prunase, required for its complete hydro- 
lysis ; the leaves contain mandelonitrile glucosides and prunase but no 
amygdalase. Complex glucosides are present in the seeds of other 
plants as indicated in the previous chapter. 

Anaesthetics such as chloroform or ether are well known to have 
a remarkable action on plants in stimulating growth. Of the deepest 
significance in this connection is Guignard's observation that exposure 
of living plants to the action of anaesthetics brings about interaction 
between the glucoside and the corresponding ferment. Mustard oil is 
formed from the leaves of certain cruciferae, hydrogen cyanide from 
laurel leaves and other cyanophoric plants, when submitted to the 
action of chloroform. The same phenomenon is brought about by ex- 
posure to extreme cold. 

The recent investigations of H. E. and E. F. Armstrong have 
shown that a variety of substances, having the property in common 



FUNCTION OF CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 127 

that they have but little affinity for water, are able to penetrate the 
walls of certain plant cells. As a consequence alterations in equilibrium 
are set up within the cell, and changes are induced which involve altera- 
tion of the concentration and the liberation of hydrolytic enzymes. 

The general name hormone has been applied to substances which 
are active in this manner : it has been shown that the group includes 
not only carbon dioxide but material such as hydrc^en cyanide, hydro- 
carbons, alcohols, phenols, ethers, esters, aldehydes, mustard oils, etc., 
all of which are normal products of hydrolysis of the plant glucosides. 
The hormones include most of the substances which Overton, Lob, 
Czapek and others have classed as lipoid solvents. ,- 

The result of the liberation of enzymes within the cell will be 
hydrolysis of complex carbohydrates, glucosides, proteins, etc, and the 
materials so formed will be active in still further stimulating change. 
If unchecked, change will proceed until autolysis is complete : in 
practice the intervention of oxydases is made manifest by the appear- 
ance of brown and other pigments. 

It will be seen that the plant cell carries its own hormones or 
activators in an inactive form bound up as glucosides. If for any 
reason during the twenty-four hour period a little of the glucoside be- 
comes hydrolysed, the hormone will be liberated and a very delicate 
stimulus given to the cell to b^in down-graae changes such as normally 
take place at night 

The recognition of the potent effect of the constituents of glucosides 
in acting as stimuli and starters of active metabolism may be of im- 
portance in studying the nutrition of animals. It is well known that 
the herbage of one pasture may have the power of fattening an animal 
whereas similar grass on an adjoining field though equally readily con- 
sumed by the animal fails to bring it into condition for the market. 
Subtle differences between the grasses of these two fields, have 
hitherto defied detection, but some recent observations made with 
Lotus camiculatus (Armstrong) indicate that the presence of certain 
glucosides or similar constituents in the one herbage may have some 
bearing on the difference. 

Bunge has pointed out that very many of the non-sugar constituents 
of glucosides are antiseptic and therefore bactericidal in character. In 
the seeds of plants the reserve stores of food-stuffs form an excellent 
medium for the development of micro-organisms which would rapidly 
spread but for the protective action of the glucoside. In the almond, 
directly the seed is penetrated, the amygdalin is hydrolysed and all 
bacterial action prevented. The universal presence of glucosides in the 



1 28 CARBOHYDRATES 

bark of plants may be similarly explained : they ensure an antiseptic 
treatment of all wounds in the integument. 

Easily decomposable substances, such as many acids or aldehydes, 
are protected against oxidation by being transformed into glucosides 
just as, in the animal organism, similar substances are converted into 
paired glucuronic acid derivatives. 

Glucosides possessing a bitter taste or havii^ poisonous properties 
serve to protect such important organisms as the seeds or fruits of 
plants against animals. In some instances the plant is only poisonous 
at certain stages of its growth. Thus an ]^yptian plant, Lotus arabicus^ 
is poisonous in the early stages, but becomes a useful forage when 
allowed to mature: it contains the glucoside lotusin, which yields 
hydrogen cyanide when hydrolysed. 

Glucosides containing acetonecyanohydrin are regarded by Treub 
as primary material for protein synthesis. Guignard, working with 
phaseolunatin, has obtained no evidence that hydrocyanic acid is libera 
ated during germination of Fhaseolus beans. 

The amount of glucoside present varies considerably in different 
species of the same plant, and varies also according to the time of year. 
It also differs in the male and female plant of the same species. Un^ 
fortunately the material at present available for the discussion of this 
question is very scanty. Jowett and Potter, who investigated the bark 
from thirty-three samples of willow and poplar, found considerable 
variation in the occurrence of salicin. In April the bark from the female 
tree contained about three times as much salicin as that from the male ; 
three months later the conditions were reversed. It is suggested that 
salicin acts as a reserve food material ; it is stored away in the winter 
for use in the coming spring when it is hydrolysed by the accompany- 
ing ferment and the glucose used by the plant Owing to their special 
functions the reserve is drawn upon to an unequal extent by the male 
and female trees. Taxicatin, the glucoside of the leaves and young 
shoots ot the yew {Taxus bac€ata\ occurs in g^reatest quantity in the 
plant during the autumn and winter ; apparently it is utilised in the 
spring when the young shoots begin to assimilate. The cyanophoric 
glucoside in the leaves of Santbucus nigra according to Guignard seems 
to fulfil a different function, as its amount diminishes only slightly with 
age, and at the end of the vegetative period the glucoside does not 
migrate to the stems but remains in the leaves till they drop off. 

The variations in the composition of the root of the gentian during 
a year's growth have been studied by Bridel. The gentian root contains 
a glucoside gentiopicrin and the carbohydrates glucose, fructose, sucrose 



RESPIRATION IN PLANTS 129 

and gentianose (p. 70), the last of which is hydrolysed by invertase. 
The amount of carbohydrate hydrolysed by invertase increases from a 
minimum {V2 per cent.) early in June to a maximum (7-8 per cent.) in 
August and then remains constant. The amount of glucoside (2 per 
cent.) does not vary much, it increases a little in June and July. In 
May and June gentianose is largely replaced by gentiobiose. The 
sucrose increases from i per cent, in July to 4 per cent, or more in 
November : it is absent when growth commences in the spring. 

According to Cavazza the amount of tannin in the leaves of forest 
trees reaches a maximum in September, whereas the amount in the 
twigs shows maxima in July and December and varies inversely as that 
in the leaves. 

Respiration in Plants. 

Carbohydrates and glucosides are concerned likewise in the pheno- 
mena of respiration in plants, during which oxygen is absorbed, carbon 
dioxide given off and the energy necessary for carrying out the life- 
work of the plant liberated. The process of oxidative decomposition 
of food substances is separable into two stages : in the first, alcohol 
and carbon dioxide are produced, as may be demonstrated by allow- 
ing pea seeds to germinate without the access of air. The anaerobic 
process of carbohydrate decomposition, if not identical with, is very 
similar to the alcoholic fermentation of glucose by yeast. 

The second stage in respiration comprises the aerobic oxidation of 
the alcohol produced in the first stage : this is effected according to 
the jM-esent view by the agency of the respiratory pigments which are 
themselves present originally as glucosides and liberated by hydrolysis. 
No doubt salts of iron, manganese, etc., play some part in the oxida- 
tive changes but their precise function is not yet understood 

Important light has been thrown on the function of the aromatic 
substances in plants and on the existence of enzymes, which act only 
on them, by the researches of Palladin. Following the line of thought 
originated by Reinke, who discovered substances in the plant which 
under the influence of enzyme (oxydase) and air gave coloured oxida- 
tion products, Palladin made a systematic search for these respiratory 
chromogens. He supposes them to be cyclic compounds bound to 
carbohydrates in the form of insoluble glucosides. Glucoside-splitting 
enzymes separate the cyclic compounds which by the aid of the oxy- 
dases are then enabled to take up oxygen from the air to give it up 
again later under the influence of reducing substances. During life the 
chromogens normally remain colourless so long as there is a balance 

9 



1 30 CARBOHYDRATES 

in the activities of the three types of enzyme concerned, but, on treat- 
ment with chloroform or other hormones, or after death due to cold 
or injury, the inter-relationship of the enzymes is disturbed and the 
coloured oxidised chromogen becomes evident. 

The soluble pigments of flowering plants — red, purple and blue — 
which are termed collectively anthocyanin by botanists are regarded 
similarly as oxidation products of chromogens of an aromatic nature, 
probably in many cases members of the flavone and xanthone groups 
(Wheldale) : there is little doubt that these colourless chromogens are 
present in the living tissues as glucosides. It would appear that the 
chromogen can only be oxidised after it has been liberated from the 
glucoside, the glucosides themselves being stable towards oxidising 
agents : in the animal, it will be remembered, they undei^o oxidation 
to glucuronic acid. 

Combes has found that red leaves of which the colouration is 
attributed to anthocyanin contain proportionately greater amounts of 
glucosides and sugars than green leaves of the same plant ; Kraus has 
proved the same to hold for the aromatic constituents. The evidence 
as to the formation of anthocyanin has been summarised by Wheldale; 
it is regarded as due to the accumulation of glucosides. Sugar feeding 
increases both the amount of glucoside and of free aromatic chromogen. 

The autumnal colouration of leaves is attributed (Overton, Tswett) 
to the same series of changes brought about by the slowing up of the 
metabolic processes of the plant by frost and other influences resulting 
in the disturbance of the enzyme balance. Tannins, for example, 
when set free from their glucoside form by the hydrolytic enzymes, 
yield pigments on oxidation {cf, p. 45). 

The production of pigment involves something more than the inter- 
action of the aromatic chromogen with the oxydase. Chodat has 
accumulated evidence showing that protein decomposition products, 2>., 
the amino acids or polypeptides also take part in the reaction, and the 
precise shade of colour produced depends on the nature and quantity 
of these as well as on that of the aromatic compound derived from the 
glucoside. 

Carbohydrates and the Enzyme Balance. 

In dealing with carbohydrate metabolism in plants there is abund- 
ant evidence that a very delicate balance exists between the various 
enzymatic processes which take place simultaneously, leading it may 
be to the building up of starch or to the transference of a glucoside 
into anthocyanin. 



% 



CARBOHYDRATES AND THE ENZYME BALANCE 131 

It is obvious that the introduction from without of agencies which 
will affect this balance will have a more or less profound influence in 
altering the changes which take place. 

One of the most delicate means of regulating the balance is that 
aflbrded by change of temperature. A rise or fall in the temperature 
does not influence all enzyme reactions alike — ^for example, some are 
retarded by cold much more than others. 

A typical case is that afforded by the potato tuber during storage 
(Miiller-Thui^an). Three changes take place simultaneously : starch is 
being transformed into sugar, sugar into starch and also by the process 
of respiration into carbon dioxide. A decrease in the temperature 
hinders all three reactions but it has least effect on the formation of 
sugar from starch. Accordingly when the potato is stored at 0"* sugar 
is formed till the amount increases to 3 per cent At - i"* all enzyme 
action ceases. At + 3° there is still formation of sugar but the enzymes 
acting to destroy it tend to keep the amount down to 0'5 per cent. 
At + 6° the rate of formation of sugar from starch and that of the 
reverse change are equal ; above this temperature the formation of 
starch predominates. In consequence no sugar is stored and any sugar 
previously present is destroyed. 

The effect of a further rise in t emperature on the enzyme balance 
has not been worked out in such detail but there is no doubt that the 
influence is equally profound. This conception of the regulation of 
metabolism affords an explanation of the sudden development of plant 
growth due to a warm day in spring when the rise in temperature 
favours synthetic chaises ; or of the injury caused to hot-house plants 
by exposing them to a temperature colder than that to which they are 
accustomed, whereby an abnormal preponderance of hydrolytic activity 
is favoured which, if unduly prolonged, may lead to the disintegration 
of the protoplasmic structure and death of the plant. 

In the case of plants which are killed by frost it is supposed that 
as a result of the removal of the water as ice the concentration of the 
cell fluid becomes such that the soluble proteins are precipitated from 
solution. This salting out of the proteins is prevented by the presence 
of non-electrolytes such as sugar : Lidforss, to whom this explanation 
is due, has shown that the leaves of winter plants are free from starch 
but contain much sugar. The warm days of early spring bring about 
the regeneration of starch and partial disappearance of sugar ; in con- 
sequence the cell is but ill protected against the effects of a subsequent 
frost. 

9* 



132 CARBOHYDRATES 



The Ripening of Fleshy Fruits. 

la the first stages, after fertiUsatiofk the changes in the young fruit 
reseoible those in the leaf: a varietjr of adds^ tamiins> and sometimes 
starch then accumulate, and ultimately, as the fruit becocncs rip^ carbon 
hydrates and fruit ethers or acomatic substances ace formed ami the 
bitter, acid or astringent taste disappears together widi the starch. 

The interrelationship of the oiaterials concerned and the enzymes 
which effect their txansformation possesses munerouspointsof interest — 
the scope of the present work limits discussion here mainly to the 
carbohydrates, A distinction has been diawn between tftree types of 
fruit (Gerber) which in the pielinuiiary stages ace rich either in acids^ 
taimins or starch : the subsequent changes differ somewhat in each 
type. 

As a typical starchy fruit the banana may be consideied. During 
rijpening theie is an evolution of carbon dioxide and a considerable 
conversion of starch into sugar. Thus Prinsen-Geerligs found during 
six days the amount of starch decreased from 31 to 9 per cent, the 
cane sugar rose from 0*8 to 13*6 per cent, and the invert sugar front 
0*25 to 8*5 per cent The presence of oxygen is necessary for tipen- 
ing ; in an atmosphere of nitrogen the starch remains intact. 

A cairefuJ study of the enzymes present in extracts of bananas 
gathered at different stages of ripening has been made by Tallarico. 
The catal}rtic enzyme which decomposes hydrogen peroxide is very 
active in the green fruit but weakens as it ripens. Diastase is only 
active in the green fruit or at the b^inning of ripening, it then dis^ 
appears. Invertase is absent during the green stage, tibe amount very 
rapidly increases during ripening and then gradually disappears. A 
proteoclastic enzyme is evident during ripening and then likewise 
vanishes^ Maltase is not present at any period. 

During ripening the skin of the banana changes from green to 
yellow, deep brown and finally black ; the fruit is then fully ripe. This 
change is due to an oxydase acting on some aromatic substance liberated 
from a glucoside. The black colour is quickly produced' when a yellow 
banana skin is disint^rated by mincing or when the entire skin is 
exposed to the vapour ot some hormone. Under natural conditions 
the stimulus, which leads to blackening, is given from within the fruit 
by the liberation of the characteristic ester of the banana which acts 
as a powerful hormone. In the case of most fruits, it would seenu 
that the final appearance which is associated with ripeness is condi- 



THE RIPENING OF FLESHY FRUITS 133 

tioned by stimulus from within rather than by any environmental 
influence. 

Vinson has found that invertase is present in the date throughout 
the green stages but remains in an insoluble endo form : during ripen- 
ing it becomes readily soluble changing to i the ecto form. The change 
coincides very closely in point of time with the conversion of the 
soluble tannins into an insoluble form. The unripe date contains 
much cane sugar, in the ripe fruit this is converted into invert sugar. 
Influences, such as have been considered under the name of hormones, 
which destroy the structure of the protoplasm liberate the endo-enzyme 
provided always that the dates have reached a certain stage of develop- 
ment 

The acids in fruits are chiefly malic, tartaric and citric Gerber 
considers that during ripening they are in part converted into sugar 
and in part oxidised to carbon dioxide. Temperature has an important 
influence on the rate of oxidation. Experiments with fungi {Sterigma- 
tocytts) have shown that whereas at 1 2"* glucose is attacked preferentially 
to tartaric acid, at 26* the rate of attack is equal, at zj"" the tartaric 
acid is least resistant. Malic acid is oxidised more easily than glucose 
at all temperatures: fruits containing it, such as apples, can ripen 
therefore in colder climates than those containing tartaric acid, like 
grapes. Citric acid is still more resistant to attack and fruits such as 
oranges and lemons require warmer climates in order to ripen. 

In apples according to Kelhofer the percentage of sugar is highest 
in the flesh, the acidity increases towards the centre, the tannin from 
the centre outwards. The distribution is the same in ripe as in unripe 
apples, but during ripening the amount of acid greatly diminishes. 

In oranges (Scurti and Plato) citric and malic acids are present ; 
during ripening the quantity at first increases but then becomes much 
smaller. Sucrose diminishes in amount, glucose and fructose increase. 

During the ripening of sloes (Otto and Kooper) the amount of 
fructose increases whilst that of glucose decreases together with the 
acids and tannin : the loss is in part due to respiration. The same 
authors have studied the changes in medlars and quinces during 
ripening. 

In the ripening of cereals the object is to store starch instead of 
converting it into sugar. The enzymes act synthetically and there is 
a gradual accumulation of carbohydrate within the endosperm tissue. 
The slowly matured, plump grains contain a higher proportion of 
starch than the small and rapidly ripened grains. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY, 

Rcfertnce to the lUtratur$ subsequent to xpoo is much faeilUaJted by the Annual Volumes of the Inter- 
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature, Papers referrtng to Carbohydrates are indexed in Volume D 
{Chemistry) under x8oo et seq. in the original languag^e, namely, 1800 General^ z8io Monosaccharides, i8flO 
Disacchandes, 1830 Trisaccharides, 1840 Polysaccharides, 1850 Glucosides. Papers referring to the Car- 
bohydrate Enzymes are indexed under 8000-8014, Fermentation under 8020, and Vegetable MetwtoHsm undtr 
8030. The same system of numbering is used in the forthcoming publication of the Royal Society s Catalogue 
of Scientific Papers up to 1900. 

TEXT-BOOKS. 

£. F. Armstrong. Dictionary of Applisd Chemistry. 19x2. [Carbohydrates, Glucosides,] 

F. CzAPBK. Biochemie der Pfianzen, Jena, 1905. 

F. CzAPBK. Chemical phenomena in Life, London, igzi. 

H. EuLBR. Pflanzenchemie, Braunschweig, 1908. 

H. EuLBR UND LuNDBBRG. Glucoside, Biochemisches Handlexikon, xgzi. 

E. FiscHBR. Untersuchungen uber Kohlenhydrate und Fermente, 1884-1908. Berlini 
1909. [A reprint of all the original papers.] 

J. Rbynolds Grbbn. The soluble ferments and fe$mentation. 

V. Hbnri. Lois ginerales des diastases, Paris, 2903. 

O. Jacobsbn. Die Glycoside, 

H. Landolt. Das optische Drehungsvermogen organischer Substanzen und dessen 
praktische Anwendungen. Braunschweig, 1898. 

£. VON Lippmann. Die Chemie der Zuckerarten, 3rd edition, 19044 

L. Maqubnnb. Les Sucres et leurs principaux derivis. Paris, 1900. 

R. H. Adbrs Plimmbr. The chemical changes and products resulting from fermentations, 
London, 1903. 

Van Rijn. Die Glucoside, Berlin, 1900. 

Roscob-Schorlemmbr's C hemic t Band 8. Pflanzenglycoside, Braunschweig, 1901. 

B. ToLLBNS. Kurzes Handbuch der Kohlenhydrate, 2nd edition, 1898. 



^35 



REFERENCES TO CHAPTER I. 

E. BucHNBR, J. Mbisenhbimbr und H. Schadb. Vergdhrung des Zkickers ohne Enstyme. 
Bcr., X906, 39^ 4217.4231. 

E. FiacHBR, Ueher die Cw^guratUm des Traubenwuekers und seiner Isameren, I., 11. 
Ber., 189X, 24, Z836-1845 ; 2683-2687. 

E. F18CHBR UND R. S. MoRRBLL. Ueber die CtmfiguraUon der Rhamnase und Oalactase. 
Bcr., 1894, 37, 382-394. 

E. FiscHBR. KonfiguraHon der Weinsaure^ Ber., 1896, 2^ 1377-1383. 

C. S. Hudson. Certain numerical relations in the sugar group, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 
1909, 31, 66-86. 

W. Lobe. Zur Kenntnis der Zuckerspaltungen, I. Die Einwirkung von Zinkcarbonat auf 
Formaldehydlosungen, Biochem. Zeit, 1908, za, 78-96. 

W. Lobe. Zur Kenntnis der Zuckerspaltungen. ^ II. Die Einwirkung von Zinkstaub und 
Eisen auf Formaldehydlosungen ; du Einwirkung von Zinksttutb auf Trauben- 
sucker, BiochcncL Zeit., 1908, la^ 466-472. 

J. Mbisenhbimbr. Das Verhalten der Glucose, Fructose und Galactose gegen wefdSmnte 
Natronlange, Ber., 1908, 41, 1009-10x9. 

J. U. Nbf. Das Verhalten der Zuckerarten gegen die Fehlingsche Losung sowie g9gen 
andere Oxydationsmittel. Annalen, 1907, 357, 2x4-3x2. 

O. PiLOTY. Ueber eine neue Totalsynthese des Glycerins und des Dioxyacetons. Ber., x897, 
30^ 316X.3169. 

H. Schadb. Vergdhrung des Zuckers ohne Ennyme, Zeit. physiksU. Chem., X906, 57, x-46. 

H. Schadb. Vber die Vorg'dnge der Qarung vom Standpunkt der Katalyse, BioQhem. 
Zeitsch., 1908, 7, 299-32£ 

A. WoHL. Ueber die Acetate des Acroleins und des Glycerinaldehyds, Ber., 1898, 31 , 
1796-1801. 

A. WoHL. Synthese des r-Glycerinaldehydes, Ber., 1898, 31, 2394-2395. 

A. WoHL UND C. Nbuebro. Zur Kenntnis des Glycerinaldehyds, Ber., 1900, 33^ 
3095-3x10. 



X3« 



REFERENCES TO STRUCTURE AND MUTAROTATION OF GLUCOSE. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Studiss on Enxynu Action, I. The correlation of the 
stereoisomeric a- and fi-glucosides with the corresponding glucoses. J. Chem. Soc^ 

19031 «3» 1305-1313. 
E. Frankland Armstrong and S. L. Courtauld. Formation of isodynamie glucosides 
with reference to the theory of isomeric change and the selective action of enzymes- 
preparation of fi-methyl glucoside, J. Physiol., 1905, 33, Proc. tv. 

R. Bbhreno. Zur Kenntniss der $-Olucose, Aimalen, 19x0, 377, 990-223. 

R. Berbnd und p. Roth. Ueber die Birotation der Glucose, Annalen, 1904, 331, 359- 

38a. 
H. T. Brown and G. H. Morris. The action^ in the cold, of diastase on starch-paste, 

J. Chem. Soc., 1895, 67, 309-3i3« 
H. T. Brown and S. Pickering. Thermal phenomena attending the change in rotatory 

power of freshly prepared solutions of certain carbohydrates, with some remarks on 

the cause of mulHrotation, J. Chem. Soc., 1897, 71, 756-783. 

Dubrunpaut. Note sur quelques phSnomines rotatoires et sur quelques prf^riitis des 

sucres, Compt. rend., 1846, :^ 38-44. Ann. Chim. phys., 1846, fS^ 99-X07 ; 1847, 

ai, Z78-Z80. 
E. Fischbr. Einige S&uren der Zuckergruppe. Ber., 1890, 23, 2625-2628. 
R. GiLMOUR. Mutarotation of glucose and its nitrogen derivatives, Ploc. Chem. Soc., 

Z909* as 225-226. 
H. Grossmann und F. L. Block. Studien Uber Rotationsdispersion und Mutarotation 

der Zuckerarten in Wasser, Pyridin und Ameisensdure, Zeitscfa. ver. dent. Zuckerind., 

1912, 19-74. 

G. Hbitbl. Birotation der Galactose, Annalen, 1905, 33IB; 7Z-Z07. 

C. S. Hudson. Ueber die MultirotaHon des MilchMuckers, Zeit. physik. Chem., 1903, 

44» 487-494- 
C. S. Hudson. The hydration of milk-sugar in solution. J. Amer. Chem. Soc, 1904, 
2&, 1065-Z082. 

C. S. Hudson. Catalysis by acids and bases of the mutaroUsHon of glucose, J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc., 1907, jg, Z57Z-X576. 

C. S. Hudson. The significance of certain numerical relations in the sugar group, J. 
Amer. Chem. Soc., X909, 31, 66-86. 

C. S. Hudson. A review of discoveries on the mutarotatum of the sugars, J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc., 19x0, 32^ 889-894. 

J. C. Irvine and A. M. Moodib. Addition of alkylhalides to alkylated sugars and 
glucosides, J. Chem. Soc., 1906, 89, 1578-1590. 

C. L. JuNGius. The mutual transformation of the two stereoisomeric methyl-d-glucosides, 
Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1903, 6, 99-104. 

C. L. JuNGius. The mutual transformation of the two stereoisomeric pentacetates of 
d'glucose, Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1904, 7, 779-783. 

C. L. JuNOius. Ueber die Umlagerung Mwischen Hnigen isomeren Glukose-derivaten und 
die Mutarotation der Zuckerarten* Zeit. physikal. Chem., 1905, 52^ 97-zo8. 

J. Landini. Influenza della formaUna sul potere rotatorio del glucosio in rapporto alia 
teoria della mulHrotaeione, Atti. R. Accad., Lincei, X907, 16^ 52-58. 

A. Levy. Die Multirotation der Dextrose. Zeit. physikal. Chem., X895, 17, 30X-324. 

E. VON LiPPMANN. Bemerkung xur Frage uber die Ursache der Birotation, Ber., 1896, 
39, 203-204. 

T. M. LowRY. [MutarotaiUm of glucose,] J. Chem. Soc., X899, 75, 2x3. 

T. M. LowRY. The mutarotation of glucose. J. Chem. Soc, 1903, 83, X3X4-X323. 

137 



138 CARBOHYDRATES 

T. M. LowRY. Equilibrium in solutions of glucose and of galactose, J. Chem. Soc., 1904, 

J. A. MiLROY. Einjluss inaktiver SubstanMen auf die oftische Drekung der Glucose. 
Zdt. physikal. Chem., 1904, 50^ 433-464. 

Y. Osaka. Ueber die Birotation der d-Glukose, Zeit. phydkal. Chem., igoo, 35, 663. 

E. Parous und B. Tollbns. Die Mehr-oder Weniger-Drehung {Multirotation oder sog. 

Birotation und Halbrotation) der Zuckerarten, Annalen, 1890, 257, 160-178. 

W. H. Pbrkin, Sen, The magnetic rotation of some polyhydric alcohols, J. Chem. Soc., 
1902, 8z, 177-191. 

P. Rabb and C. Roy. Ueber Mutarotation und ektrische Leitf&higkeit bd Zuckem. Ber., 
1910, 43, 2964-2971. 

£. Roux. Sur la polyrotation des sucres, Ann, Chim. phys., 1903, 30, 422-432. 

L. J. Simon. Sur la constitution du glucose, Compt. rend., 1901, Z33, 487-490 ; 596. 

C. O'SuLLiVAN AND F. W. ToMPSON. Invertosc : a contribution to the history of an 
euMyme or unorganised ferment [multirotation}, J. Chem. Soc., 1890, 57, 920 

[834-931]. 
0. Tanrbt. Les modifications moleculaires du glucose, BulL Soc. Chim., 1895, [iii], 

13, 625 ; 728-735. 
C. Tanrbt. Les modifications moliculaires du glucose, Compt rend., 1895, zao^ 

Z060-Z062. 

C. Tanrbt. Les modifications moleculaires et la multirotation des sucres. Bull. Soc. 

Chim., 1896, [iii], XS i95-«>5, 349-3^1 ; 1897. I7» 802-805. 
C. Tanrbt. Les transformations des sucres d. multirotation. Boll. Soc. Chim., 1905, 

[i"l 33i 337-348. 
B. Tollbns. Das Verhalten der Dextrose zu ammoniakalischer Silberldsung, Ber., 2883, 

169 921-924. 

B. Tollbns. Die Ursache der Birotation des TraubenMuckers, Ber., 1893, a6^ 1799- 
x8o2. 

H« Trby. Experimentfilbeitrag Mur Birotation der Glykose, Zeit physikal. Chem., 
1895, z8y 193-2x8; 1897, 22, 424-463. 

F. Urbch. Zur strobometrischen Bestimmung der Invertirungsgeschwindigkeit von 

Rohrzucker und das Uebergang der Birotation von Milchsucker zu seiner constanten 
Drehung, Ber., 1882, 15, 2130-2133. 

F. Urbch. Ursdchlicher Zusammenhang zwischen LOslichkeits und optischer Drehungs 
erscheinung bei Milchzucker und Formulirung der Uebergangsgeschwindigkeit seiner 
Birotation in die normale. Ber., 1883, x6^ 2270-2271. 

F. Urbch. Ueber den Birotationsruckgang der Dextrose, Ber., 1884, 17, 1547-1550. 

F. Urbch. Ueber die Reihenfolge einiger Biosen und Glycosen betreffend Reactions- und 
BirotationsrOckgangs-Geschwindigkeit mit ROcksicnt auf die Constitutionsformeln 
und den Begriff der Affinitdtsgrosse. Ber., 1885, x8, 3047-3060. 



REFERENCES TO DERIVATIVES OF GLUCOSE. 

F. VON Arlt. Zuf K^nninis der Glucose. Monatsh., zgoi, 22, Z44-ZS0. 

E. Frankland Armstrong and P. S. Arup. SUreoisomeric glucoses and the hydrolysis 
ofglucosidic acetates, J. Chem. Soc, Z904, 8s X043-Z049. 

LoBRY DB Bruyn AND A. VAN Ekbnstbin. Formal derivatives of sugars, Proc. K. 

Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1902, S <75-<77> K^* ^^v* Chim., 1903, 22, 

159-165. 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin. Le second methylglucoside, Rec. trav. Chim., 1894, 23^ 183-186. 
E. Erwio und W. Konigs. Pentacetyldextrose. Bet., 1889, 22, 1464-1467. 

E. Erwio und W. KSnigs. Funffach acetylirte Galaktose und Dextrose, Bet,, 1889, 22^ 
2207-22x3. 

£. FiscHBR. Ueber die Olucoside der Alkohole, Bet., 1893, 26^ 2400-24x2; 1895, 26, 
ZZ45-XZ67. 

E. Fischbr. Ueber die Verbindungen der Zuckerarten mit den Mercaptanen, Ber., 1894, 

27, 673-679. 

E. Fischbr. Notiw uhet die Acetohalogen-glucosen und die p^Bromphenylosasone von 
Maltose und Melibiose, Bet., xgii, 44, 1898-1904. 

E. Fischbr und E. F. Armstrong. Ueber die isomeren Acetohalogen-Derivate der Zucker 
und die Synthese der Glucoside, I., II., III. Ber., Z90X, 54, 2885-2900; 1902,35, 

833-843; 3x53-3x55. 
E. Fischbr und L. Bbbnsch. Ueber einige synthetische Glucoside, Ber., X894, 27i 2478- 
2486. 

E. Fischbr und K. Raskb. Verbindung von Acetobromglucose und Pyridin. Ber., X9Z0, 
43, X750-X753. 

E. Fischbr und K. Zach. Neue Anhydride der Glucose und Glucoside, Ber., 19x2, 45, 

456-465. 
A. P. N. Franchimont. Les deux pentacetates d$ la glucose, Rec. trav. Chim., 1893, z% 
3x0-314. 

V. Fritz. Ueber einige Derivate des Benzqykarbinols und des Diphenacyls, Ber., X895, 

28, 3028-3034. 

J. C. Irvinb and R. Gilmour. The constitution of glucose derivatives. Glucose 
anilide, oxime and hydraxone, J. Chem. Soc, 1908, 93, 1429-1442. 

J. C. Irvinb and R. Gilmour. Constitution of glucose derivatives, II. Condensation 
derivatives of glucose with aromatic amino compounds. J. Chem. Soc., 1909, 95, 

1545-X555. 
J. C. Irvinb and A. Hynd. o-Carboxyanilides of the Sugars, Trans. Chem. Soc*, 
Z91X, 99, z6x-x68. 

J. C. Irvinb and D. McNicoll. The constitution and mutarotation of sugar anilides. 
Trans. Chem. Soc., 19x0, 97, X449-1456. 

W. Konigs und E. Knorr. Ueber einige Derivate des Traubenxuckers. Sitzungsber. 
K. Akad., Munchen, 1900, 30^ 103-105. 

W. Konigs und £. Knorr. Ueber einige Derivate des Traubenzuckers und der Galactose, 

Ber., 190X, 34, 957-98X. 
R. Krbmann. Ueber die Verseifungsgeschwindigkeit von Monose und Biose Acetaten, 

Monatsh., X902, 23, 479-488. 

L. Maqubnnb. La preparation du fi-methylglucoside. Bull. Soc. Chim., X905, [iii], 33^ 
469-47X. 

J« Moll van Charantb. Sur les derives acetyliques des deux mithylglucosides et sur 
VacHobromglucose, Rec. trav. Chim., 1902, 2Z, 42-44. 

X39 



140 CARBOHYDRATES 

R. S. MoRRBLL AMD J. M. Cropts. AcHoh ofkydtogen ptroxide on carbohydraUs in the 
presence of ferrous sulphate. J. Chem. Soc., 1902, 8z, 666-675 ; 1903, 83, 1284- 
Z292. 

R. S. MoRRBLL AND J. M. Crofts. Modes of formation of osones. Proc. Camb. Phil. 
Soc., 1903, za^ ZZ5-X2I. 

N. ScHoORL. Urea derivatives of monohexoses, Rec. trav. Chim., 1903, 22, 3Z-37« 

Z. H. Skraup und R. Krsmann. Ueber Acetochlorglucose, -Galactose und Milchzucker. 
Monatsh., 1901, 22^ 375-384, 1037-Z048. 

C. Tanrst. Les ithers acStiques de quelques sucres. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1895, [iii], 13, 
261-273. 

E. VoTO^BK. Beitrag wur NomenkkUur 4er Zuckerarten, Btr^ 29x1, 44, 360-361. 

W. Will und F. Lbnzb. Nitrirung von Kohlehydraten, Ber., 1898, 32, 68-90. 



REFERENCES TO ALKYLATED SUGARS. 

J. C. Irvinb and a. Cambron. The Alkylation tfOalactose. J. Chem. Soc., 1904, 85, 
Z07Z-108Z. 

J. C Irvinb and A. Cambron. Study of alkylated glucosides. J. Chem. So&, Z905, 87, 
900-909. 

J. C. Irvinb and A. Htnd. Monomethyl leevulose and its derivatives : constitution of 
Icevulose diaeetone, J. Chem. Soc., Z909, 95; z22o-z228. 

J. C Irvinb and A. M. Moodib. Alkylation of mannose. J. Chem. Soc., X905, 87, 
Z462-Z468. 

J. C Irvinb and A. M. Moodib. Derivatives of tetramethylglucose, }. Chem. Soc., 

1908, 93, 95-107- 
T. PuRDiB AND R. C. Bridgbtt. Trimethyl a-methylglucoside and trimethylglucose. 

J. Chem. Soc., Z903, 83, Z037-Z04Z. 

T. PuRDiB AND J. C Irvinb. Alkylation of sugars. J. Chem. Soc., Z903, 83, Z02X-Z037. 

T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvinb. The stereoisomeric tetramethyl methyl glucosides and tetra- 
methylglucose, J. Chem. Soc., Z904, 85^ Z049-X070. 

T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvinb. Synthesis from glucose of an octamethylated disacchande^ 
Methylation of sucrose and maltose, J. Chem. Soc, Z905, 87, Z022-Z030. 

T. PuRDiB AND D. M. Paul. Alkylation of d-fructose, J. Chem. Soc., Z907, 91, 289-299. 

T. PuRDiB AND R. E. R08B. Alkylation of l-<trabinose. J. Chem. Soc^ X906, 8gb ^904- 

X2Z0. 

T. PuRDiE AND C. R. YouNO. AlkyloHou of mfiinnose. J. Chem. Soc., Z906, 89^ ZZ94- 
Z204. 



REFERENCES TO CHAPTER IL 

I. Bancu Usbetf dm DcmUMimg Amr Mmt;Aoiglutfmm9ihHr9. Biodlm. Zeit, xgix, ^ 445. 
K. H. BoDDBNBR UNt) B. ToLLBNS. Arobons&uTe, Ber., zgxo, 43^ Z645-Z650. 

H. H. BvNZBL. RaU 0/ oxidation cf ths sugars in an acid nudium, J. Biol. Chem., 1908, 

4,vii. 
H. H. BvMZBL. liiseMmtiom of the oxidation cf glucose by bromine in neutral and acid 

solutions. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1909, 31, 464-479. 
L. £. Cavazza. Rieeerchs sperUnmUaU : contr^uto alio studio dei tannini, Zeitscb. wiss. 

Mikxoskopie, 1908, as zjroo; 1909^ M^ 59^* 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin bt J. J. Blanksma. Transformation du Ugulose et du l-idose en 

Irsorbose. Rec* taiT. Chim., 1908, 37, 1-4. 
W. A. VAN EnuMTBiN AND J. J. Blanksm A. BUdung von Laevutinsdure aus Hexosen. 

Chem. WeekbUd» 19x0, 7, 387-390. 
W. A. VAN Bkenstbin and J, J. Blanksma. w-Oxymethylfurfurol ah Ursache einige 

Parbreaktionen der Hexosen, Ber., 19x0, 43, 2355-236X. 

H. J. H. Fbnton. Oxidation in presence of iron, Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc., 1902, zz, 

358-374. 
E. F18CHBR. Reduktion von Sauren der Zuckergrupfe, Ber., x889i 23, 2204-2205 ; X890, 
23^ 930-938 ; 2625-2628. 

E. Fischer. Ueber Kohlenstojfreichere Zuekerarten oscs QUuose. Ann^en, 1892, a/o^ 
64-107. * 

E. FiscHBR. Ueber KohUnstoffreichere Zucker aus Galactose, Annalen, 1895, ^88^ ^39- 

157- 
E. Fischer und K. Frbudbnbbrg. Ueber das. Tannin und die Syntkese ahnlicker Stoffe, 

Ber., 1912, 4S 915-935- 
£. Fischer und K. Hess. Verbindungen einiger Zucker-Derivate mit MethyUmagne' 

siumjodid. Ber., 1912, 45; 9x2-9x5. 

£. Fischer und W. Passmore. Ueber Kohlenstoffreichere Zuckerarten aus d-Mannose, 
Ber., X890, 23, 2226-2239. 

£. Fischer und O. Piloty. Ueber Kohlenstoffreichere Zuckerarten aiM. Rhamnose^ Ber., 
1890, 33, 3102-31X0. 

A. V. Grote, E. Kbhrbr und B. Tollens. Untersuchungen ueber die Ldvulinsdure oder 
fi-acetopropionsdure, I. Darstellung und Eigenscha/ten der Ldvulinsaure, Annalen, 
x88x, 206^ 207. II. Bildung der iLdvulinsdure aus verschiedenen Kohlenhydraten, 
Annalen, x88x, 206, 226. 

M. GuEBBRT. Transformation des oxyaddes a en aldehydes par Sbulition de la solution 
aqueuse de leurs sels mercurique, application d la preparation de Varabinose gauche 
au moyen du gluconate mercurique, Compt. rend., X908, Z46^ Z32-X34. 

M. Hauriot. Chloraloses (Resume), Ann. Chim. Phys., 1909, z8^ 466-502. 

H. Hildebrandt. Zur frage der glycosidischen Struktur gepaarter Glykuronsduren. 
Bdtr. Chem. path., X905, 7, 438-454. 

C. S. Hudson. A Relation between the Chemical Constitution and the optical rotatory 
power of the sugar lactones, J. Amer. Chem. Soc, X9X0, 32^ 338-346. 

K. Inouyb. Die Einwirkung von Zinkoxyd-Ammoniak auf d^Galaktose und VArabinose. 

Ber., X907, 40^ x890-x^2. 
H. KiLiANi. Das Cyanhydrin der Ldvulose, Ber., X885, z8, 3066-3072. 
H. KiLiANi. Das Cyanhydrin der Ldvulose. Ber., x886, Z9, 22X-227. 
H. KiLiANi. Darstellung von Glycolsaure aus Zucker, Annalen, x88o, 20S X9X-X93. 
H. KiLiANi. Die Einwirkung von Blausdure auf Dextrose, Ber., x886, Z9, 767-772. 

X4X 



! 



142 CARBOHYDRATES 

H. KiLiANi. Du Consiitutum der Dsxtrosuarbonsdure, Ber., z886, 19, 1x28-1x30. 

H. KiLiANX. Dis Cg-Zucker aus Meta» und Para^Sacchann. Ber., X908, 41, X20-X24. 

H. KiLiANX. SaccharinsSurau Ber., xgoS, 42, 469-47a 

H. KiLiANi. UeUr dU Einwirkung von CaUiumhydroxyd auf MiUhMHcktr, Ber., 1909, 

^ 3903-3904. 
W. T. Lawrbncs. Uebar VerHndungen dsr Zueker mit d$m AthyUn, Trimfthylen und 

Benzylmgrcaptan. Ber., X896, 29^ 547-552. 

C A. LOBRY DB Bruyn. AcHon dss Alcalis diluis sur Us hydrates de carbanne, Rec trav. 
Chim., 1895, 24, X56-165. 

C. A. LoBRY DB Bruyn bt A. van Exbnstbin. AcHon des alcalis sur les suctbs, II. 
Transformation riciproqiu des uns dans Us autres des sucres glucose, fructose et 
mannose, Rec. trav. Chim., 1895, 24, 204-2x6. 

A. Maonus-Lbvy. Ueber Paarung der Olukuronsdure mit optischen Antipoden. Biocfaem. 

Zeit., X907, % 3x9-331. 
P. Maybr. Uber asymmetrische Glucuronsdurepaarung* Biochem. Zdt., 2908, 9^ 

439-44X. 

R. S. MoRRBLL AND A. £• Bbllarb. Some compounds of guanidine with sugars, J. 
Chem. So&, 1907, 92, XOX0-X033. 

C. Nbubbro. Zur Kenntniss der Olukuronsdure. Ber., 1900, 33, 3317-3323. 

C. Nbubbro und B. Krbtschmbr. Ueber p-Kresolglucurons&ure. Biochem. Zeit, X9xx, 

36^ i5-ai' 
C. Nbubbro und S. Lachmann. Ueber ein neues Verfahren wur Gewinnung von Glucuron- 

saure und Menthol-Glucuronsaure. Biochem. Zdt, X9X0, 24, 4x6-422. 

Th. R. Oppbr. Bine neue Gruppe von stickstoffhaltigen KohUnhydrate, Beitr. Chem. 
Physiol. Path., 1906, 8, 399-405. 

L. H. Philippb. Les acides glucodSconiques, Compt. Rend, 19x0, 252, 986-988, X366- 

1367. 
L. H. Philippb. Recherches sur Us maiihres sucrSes superieures dSrivSes du glucose. Amu 

Chem. Phys., X9X2, [viii], 26, 289.4x8. [A r68um6.] 

O. Rupp. DU Verwandlung der d-Gluconsaure in d-Arabinose, Ber., 1898, 32, 2573- X577. 

O. Rupp. d- und r-Arabinose. Ber., X899, 32^ 550-560. 

O. Rupp. d-Brythrose, Ber., X899, 32^ 3672-368X. 

E. Salkowrki and C. Nbubbro. Zur Kenntniss der PhenolglukuronsSure, Biochem. 
Zeit., xgo7, 2, 307-311, 

K. Smolbnski. Ueber eine gepaarte glukuronsdure aus der Zuckerrube, Zeitsch. Physiol. 
Chem., X9XX, 72, 266-269. 

B« ToLLBNS UND BoDDBNBR. Uutersuchuugen Uber dU Arabonsaure, Z. Ver. Dent. 
Zuckerind., X9X0, 60, 727. 

A. WiNDAUS UND F. Koop. UcberfUhrung von Traubenwucker in MethylimidazoL Ber., 

19051 SB, XX66-XX70. 
A. WiNDAUS. Zersetzung von Traubenzucker durch Zinkhydroxyd^Ammoniak bei Qegen- 

wart von Acetaldehyd, Ber., X906, 39^ 3886-389X. 

A. WiNDAUS. Einwirkung von Zinkhydroxyd-Ammomak auf eimge Zuckerarten, Ber. 
1907, 40, 799-802. 

A. WoHL. Abbau des Traubenzuckers. Ber., X893, 26^ 730-744. 

A. WoHL. Abbau der Galactose. Ber,, X897, 30^ 3ZOX-3Z08. 

A. WoHL. Abbau der l-AreUnnose, Ber., X899, 32^ 3666-3672. 



REFERENCES TO PHENYLHYDRAZONES, OSAZONES, ETC. 

R. Bbhrsnd und F. Lohr. Phenylhydraxone d$f Glucose, Annalen, 1907, 353, 106-122 
1908, 562, 78-114 ; 1910, 377, 189-220. 

R. Bbhrsnd und W. Reinsbbro. tJber die Pkenylkydrazone der Glucose. Annalen, 
1910, 377, 189-220. 

A. VAN Ekenstbxn bt J. J. Blanksma. HydraMones derivees des nifrophenylhydrannes. 

Rec. trav. Chim., 1903, 22, 434-439 ; Z905i a4» 33-39- 
A. VAN Ekenstbin und Lobry db Bruyn. Isomerie bei dsn fi-NaphthylhydroMoneu der 

Zucker. Ber., 1902, 3082-3085. 

£. FiscHBR. Verbindungen des Phenylhydrawins mit den Zuckerarten, I.-V. Ber., 1884, 

I7f 579-584; 1887, 20, 821.834; 1888, 21, 988-991; 2631-2634; 1889, 22, 87-97. 
E. FiscHBR. Schmehpunkt des PhenylhydraMins und eitUgerosoMone. Ber., 1908, 41, 73-77. 

E. FiscHBR UND E. F. Armstrong. Darstellung der Osone aus den Osazonsn der 
Zucker. Ber., 1902, 35, 3141-3144. 

A. HiLGBR UND S. RoTHBNFUSSBR. Ucber die Bedentung der fi-NaphthylhydraMons der 
Zuckerartenfur deren Erkennung und Trennung, Ber., 1902, 35, 184Z-X845, 4444- 

4447- 
H. Jacobi. BirotaHon und Hydrazonbildung bei dnigen Zuckerarten* Annalen, 1892, 
272, 170.182. 

E. C. Kendall and H. C. Sherman. Detection of reducing sugars by condensation with 

p'bromobenMylhydraMine. J. Amer. Chem. Soc, 1908, 30, 1451-1455. 

C. A. LoBRY DE Bruyn bt A. van Ekenstbin. Quelques nouvelles hydrtuones des sucres : 
les naphthylhydraMones et les phinylhydrazones alcyUes {methyl-^ ethyl-, amyl-j 
ally I' t et benzyl). Rec. trav. Chim., 1896, 15, 97-99, 225-229. 

L. Maquennb. Uemploi de la phenylhydrazine d la determination des sucres. Compt. 
rend., 1891, XZ2, 799-802. 

A. MuTHBR UND B. ToLLENS. Btnige Hydrazone und ihre Schmelzpunhte. Pucose, 
Rhodeose, Ber., 1904, 37, 298-305, 311-315. 

C. Neuberq. Ueber die Reinigung der Osazone und zur Bestimmung \ihrer optischen 
Drehungsrichtung, Ber., 1899, 32, 3384-3388. 

C. Neubbro. Ueber die Isolirung der Ketosen. Ber., 1902, 35, 959-966, 2626-2633. 

C. Neubbro. Die Methylphenylhydrazinreaction der Fructose. Ber., 1904, 37, 46x6-46x8. 

C. Neubbro und M. Fedbrbr. Ueber d'Amylphenylhydrazin, Ber., X905, 38, 866-868. 

C. Neubbro und H. Strauss. Ueber Vorkommen und Nachweis von Pruchtzucker in den 
menschlichen Korpersdften. Z. physioL Chem., 1902, 36, 227-238. 

R, Opner. Binwirkung von Benzylphenylhydrazin auf Zucker. Ber., X904, 37, 2623- 
2625. 

R. Ofner. Binwirkung von Methylphenylhydrazin auf Zucker. Ber., X904, 37, 3362- 

3363. 
R. Opner. Abscheidung von Aldosen durch secunddre Hydrazine. Ber., X904, 37, 4399- 

4402. 

A. Reclaire. Beitrdge zur Kenntnis der Hydrazone der Zuckerarten : 0-, m-, und p-Nitro- 

phenyl hydrazone. Ber., 1908, 41, 3665-367X. 

O. Ruff und G. Ollendorff. Verfahren zur Reindarstellui^ und Trennung von Zuckern. 

Ber., 1899, 32, 3234-3237' 
L. J. Simon et H. B£nard. Stir les phenylhydrazones du d-glucose et leur multirotoHan. 

Compt. rend., 190X, 132, 564-566. 

R. Stabel. Derivate des Diphenylhydrazins und Methylphenylhydrazins. Annalen, 
1890, 2^, 242-25Z. 

B, ToLLENS UND A. D. Maurenbrecher. Ueber die Diphenylhydrazone der l-Arabinose 

und der Xylose, Ber., 1905, 38, 500-50X. 

F. TuTiN. The melting-point of d-phenylglucosazone. Proc. Chem. Soc., 1907, 23) 250- 

252. 

E. VoTodEK UND R. Vondra£ek. Trennung und Isolirung reducirender Zuckerarten 
mittels aromatischer Hydrazine, Ber., X903, 36, 4372 ; X904, 37, 3854-3858. 

143 



REFERENCES TO GLUCOSAMINE. 

R. Brbubr. Dasfreii Chitosamin. Ber., 1898, 31, 2x93-2200. 

B. FiacHBR VMD £• And&sas. Utber ChUomsaure und Chiiars'dure. Bci., 1903, 36^ 25S7- 

2592. 

E. FiacHSR UND H. Lbuchs. Syntluss des Stritu^ dn l-GlucosawUMsOMr^ imd and^rer 
OxyanUnosduren, Ber^ 1902, 35, 3787-3805. 

E. FlscHBR UND H. Lbuchs. Synthm dss d'OluiOiomins^ Bet., 1903, 31S, 24-29. 

E. Fischer und P. Tibmann. Uehsr da» QltMummin. Ber., 1194, a/* 138-147. 

E. FiscHBR UND K. Zach. Neus Synthase wm Baun dsr Zwk€rgn^0. Ber., 1911, 44^ 
132-135. 

S. Frankbl und a. Kblly. ConsHiutian d$» ChUins, Monat8li.T i9<»> ?3* Xfl3-Z32. 
J. C. Irvinb. a polarimitric nutkod of idenHfying (MHn^ J. Chem. See, 1909, 95^ 
564.570. 

J. C. Irvinb and A. Hynd. Converstan of d-glucosamins into d-glucose. Trans. Chem. 
Soc., 19x2, loi, 1x28-1146. 

J. C. Irvinb, D. McNicoll and A. Hynd. New derivatives of d-glncofamins. Trans. 
Chem. Soc., X91X, 99, 250-261. 

G. Lbddbrhosb. Ueber ChiHn und seine Spaltungsprodukte. Zeit physiol. Cfaem., X878, 
2, 2x3-227. 

C. A. Lobby db Bruyn. Vn dirive ammoniacal du fructose, Rec. trav. Chtm., 1899, z8» 

72-76 ; La chitosamine libre, I.e., 77-85. 

C. A. LoBRY DB Bruyn et F. H. van Lebnt. Dhtves ammoniacaux de quelques sucres. 
Rec. trav. Chim., X895, 14, 134-148. 

C. A. Lobby db Bruyn bt A. P. N. Franchimont. Derivis ammoniaeaux erisialHses 
dehydrates de carbonne. Rec. trav. Chim., 1894, la, 286-289 ; X896, 15, 81-83. 

C. A. Lobry db Bruyn und A. P. N. Francrihont. Die Ammoniakderivate der Kohlen^ 
hydrate. Ber., 1895, 28» 3082-3084; Das freU Chitosamin, Ber., 1898,32, 2476- 
2477. 

L. Maqubnmb bt £. Roux. Sur une nouvelle base dMvU du glucou, Cempt. rend., z9ox» 

132, 980-983 ; 1903, X37. 658. 

C. Nbubbrq. Ueber d-Glueosamin und Ckiiose, Ber., X902v 35^ 4009-4023. 

C. Neuberq und H. Wolff. Ueber ur und fi^t-AmtnO'd-Olucoheptonsdmre. Ber., 1903 » 

36, 6x8-620. 
Th. R. Offer. Cber ChiHn, Biochem. Zeitsch., X907, 7, X17-X27. 

E. Roux. Sur des nouvelles bases dSrivies des pentoses et du mannose. Comp. rend., 1903, 
X36, X079-X08X ; 1904, 138, 503-505- Ann. Chim. phys., 1904, X, 72-X44, x6o-i85. 

H. Steudel. Eine neue Methode zum Nachweis von Glukosamin und ihre Anwendung 
auf die Spaltungsprodukte der Mucine, Zeit. physiol. Chem., 1902, 34, 353-384. 

K. Stolte. Ueber das Verhalten des Glucosandns und seines nachsten UmwandkungS" 
produktes im Thierkorper, Beitr. Chem. Physiol. Path., 1907, iz, X9-34. 

K. Stoltb. Ueber den Abbau des Fruetosazins {Ditetroroxybutylpyramns) im Thser- 
korper. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1908, 12, 499-509. 

E. E. SuNDWiK. Zur Constitution des Chitins. Zeit, physiol. Chem., x88i, 5, 384-394. 

C. Tanret. Les Glucosines, Bull. Soc. Chim., X897, [iii], 17, 801-802. Le chiorhydrate 
de Glucosamin, Bull. Soc. Chim., 1897, I.e., 802*805. 

F. Tiemann. Einiges uber den Abbau von saUsauren Glucosamin, Ber., X884, 17, 24X- 

25X. 

F. Tiemann. Glucosamin, Ber., 1886, 19, 49-53. 

F. Tiemann. Isozuckersdure, Ber., 1886, 19^ X257-X28X. 

F. Tiemann und £. Fischer. Das Glucosamin, Ber., 1894, 27, 138-X47. 

E. WiNTERSTEiN. Zur Kcnutniss der in den Membran der PiUe enthaltenen Bestandlheile I . 
Zeit. physiol. Chem., X894, 19, 521-562. 

X44 



REFERENCES TO GLUCOSE PHOSPHATES. 

P. Carr£. Les 6thers polyphosphoriques de la mannite d$ la quercite, du glucose^ et dt 
Pinosite. BuU. Sioc. Chim., igzz, [iv], 9, 195-199. 

A. CoNTARDi. Eterifosforici di aleuni idraH di Carbonia, Rend. Ace. Lin. Sci., 1910. 
825-827. 

A. Harden and W. J. Youno. Composition of the hexose phosphoric add formed by yeast 
juice, L, II. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1911, 32^ x73-i88. 

K. Lanohbld. Ueber Dioxyaceton- und Fructose-phosphor sdure, Ber., 19x2, 45, 1x25- 

X127. 
A. VON Lebbdbpp. Ueber Hexosephosphorsdure Ester, I., II. Biochem. Zeitsch., xgio, 

28» 2x3-229 ; X9XI, 36, 248-260. 

C. Neubbrq and E. Kretschmbr. WHteres uber kunstliche Darstellung von Kohlen^ 
hydratphosphorsdureestem und Glycerinphosphorsdure. Biochem. Zeitsch., 191 x» 

36f 5-14. 

C. Neuberg and H. Pollak. Ueber Phosphorsdure- und Schwefelsdure Ester von 
Kohlenhydraten, Biochem. Zeitsch., xgio, 26, 5x4-528. 

W. J. Young. Hexose phosphate formed by yeast juice from hexose and a phosphate. 
Proc. Roy. Soc., X909, 13, 8x, 528-545. 



145 



la 



REFERENCES TO CHAPTER III.— HEXOSES. 

G. Bbrtrand. Sur la preparatum hiochimique de Sorbose, Compt. rend., i8g6, Z22, 

90a Boll. Soc. Chim., 1896, 25, 627. 
G. Bertrand. Action de la hacthie du Sorbose sur les alcools plurivaUnts, Compt 

rend., 1898, xa6, 762. 

D. H. Brauns. Lavulose pentacetate, Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1908, zo , 

563. 
A. VAN Ekbnstein and J. J. Blanksma. LavorotaHon of mannose. Chem. Weekblad., 

1907, 4. 5"-5i4- 
A. VAN Ekbnstein and J. J. Blanksma. Sugars [lyxose, gulose, talose, etc,]. Chem. 

Weekblad., 1907, 4, 743-74« ; 1908, S 777-78i. 
A. VAN Ekbnstein et J. J. Blanksma. Transformation du l-gulose ei du l-idose en 

Isorbose, Rec tiav. Chim., 1908, 37$ z*4- 

H. J. H. Fenton and M. Gostlino. Bromomethy If urfur aldehyde. The curium of hydrogen 
bromide on carbohydrates. J. Chem. Soc^ 1899, 75, 423 ; 1901, 79, 361. 

E. Fischer und L. Bbensch. Ueber die beiden optisch isomeren Methylmanttosidt, Ber.» 

1896, 2% 2927-2931. 

E. Fischer und J. Hirschberger. Ueber Mannose, I.-IV. Ber., z888, az, 1805-1809 
Z889, aa, 365-376 ; Z155-1156; 3218-3224. 

A. HiLGBR. Zur Kenntniss der Pflanzenschleime. Ber., 1903, 56, 3Z97-3203. 

J. C. Irvine and C. S. Garrett. Acetone derivatives of d-fructase. Trans. ClMm. Soc, 
Z910, 97, 1277-Z284. 

A. JoLLES. Zur Kenntnis des Zerfalls der Zuckerarten, Biochem. Zeitach., Z9Z0, ap* 
Z52-201. 

A. JoLLES. Einwirkung von Ammoniah und von Natriumcarbonat auf versekiedene 

Zuckerarten in veraunnter wdsseriger Ldsung, Biochem. Zdtsch., Z91Z, 33, 97-100. 

H. KiLiANL InuUn, Annalen, z88o, 305, 145-Z90. 

H. KiLiANL Saccharinsaure, Ber., Z91Z, 44, Z09-1Z3. 

H. KiLiANi UND C. ScHBiBLBR. Die Constitution der Sorbinose, Ber., 1888, az, 3276- 
3281. 

P. A. Levene and W. a. Jacobs. Ueber die Hexosen aus der d-Ribose. Ber., zgzo, 4^ 
3141-3147. 

B. O. VON LippMANN. Bin Vorkommen von d-Galaktose, Ber., 19x0, 43, 361Z-3612. 

W. L(5b. Zur Geschichte der chemischen G&rungshypothesen, Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x0, 

a9f 311-315. 
W. LdB UNO G. PuLVBRMACHER. EUhtrolyse des Glycerins und des Glykols, Biochem. 

Zeita., X909, X7, 343-355. 
W. Lob and G. Pulvbrmachbr. Zur Kenntnis der Zuckerspaltungen, Ueber die 

Zuckersynthese, aus Formaldehyd, Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x0, a6, 231-237. 

W. L5b and G. Pulvbrmachbr. Zuckerspaltungen, VII., Die Umkehrung der Zucker- 
synthese, Biochem. Zeitsch., 1909, 23t xo-26. 

P. Maybr. Ueber Zerstorung von Traubenzucker durch Licht, Biochem. Zeitsch., X911 , 

J. U. Nef. Dissoziationsvorgdnge in der Zuchergruppe, II., Verhalten der Zuckerarten- 
gegen Atzalkalien, Annalen, 1910, 376^ 1-XZ9. 

C. Neuberg und J. Wohlgemuth. Ueber die Darstellung der dl- und Ugalactose, Zeit. 

physiol. Chem., 1902, 36^ 219-226. 

E. Reiss. Die in den Samen als Reservestojf abgelagerte Cellulose und eine daraus 
erhaltene neue Zuckerart, die ** Seminose **. Ber., 1889, aa, 609-613. 

B. Tollens und R. Gans. Quitten- und Salepschleim, Annalen, x888, 349, 245-257. 

P. W. Upson. Action of normal barium hydroxide on glucose and galactose, Amer. 
Chem. J., 1911, 45, 458-479. 

Z46 



REFERENCES TO PENTOSES. 

O. Bbrtrand. Recherches sur qnglques dirivh du xylose. Bull. Soc. Chxm., zSgz, 5^ 

546-554. 
T. BoKORNY. Assimilatian vtm PenUmn und PenHtent dutch Pflanwen. Chem. Zeit., 

zgzo, 54, 220-221. 

O. Chavannb. Quilqu4s derives de Varabinose [acetobromo et acetochhro-arabinosel, 
Compt. rend., 1902, Z34, 661-663. 

E. F18CHBR UND H. Hbrborn. Vber Isorhamnose. Ber., 1896, ap^ 1961. 

E. F18CHBR UND C. Lxbbbrmann. Ueber Chinovose und Chinovit, Ber., 1893, a6, 24x5- 
2420. 

E. FiscHBR UND J. Tafbl. OxydatioH der mekrwtrthigen Alkahole, Ber., X887, ao, 
1088-1094. 

E. FiscHBR UND J. Tafbl. Oxydation des Qlycmns, 1.-11. Ber., z888, ax, 2634-2637 ; 
1889, aa, X06-X10. 

E. FiscHBR UND J. Tafbl. Ueber Isodulcit, Ber., x888, ax, 1657-1660 ; 2x73-2x76. 

A. GuNTHBR UND B. ToLLBNS. Ueber die Fukose, einen der Rhamnose isomeren Zucker aus 

dem Seetang. Ber., xSgo, 23, 1731-17 S^t 2585-2586. 
C. S. Hudson. Stereochemical Configuration of Pucose and Rhodeose. J. Amer. Chem. 

Soc., X9XX, 33, 405-4x0. 

H. Kilxani. Die ZusammensetMung und Constitution der Arabinosecarbonsaure bezw. 

der Arabinose, Ber., 1887, ao, 282, 339-346. 
E. Lbobr. Sur Paloinose ou sucre d'aloine, Compt rend., xgio, 150, 983-986. 
E. Lbobr. Sur VaUnnose cristallise; son identite avec Varabinose-d, Compt rend., 19x0, 

xSOi X695-X697. 

A. MuTHBR UND B. ToLLENS. Die Pucose und die Fuconsdure und die Vergleichung 

derselben mit der Rhodeose und Rhodeonsaure, Ber., 1904, 57, 306-31 x. 

C. Nbubbrg. Die Harnpentose, ein opHsch inactive^ natUrlich vorkommendes Kohlenhydrat. 
Ber., X900, 33, 2243-2254. 

C. Nbubbrq und J, Wohlgemuth. Ueber d-Arabinose, d-Arabonsdure und die quantitative 
Bestimmung von Arabinose. Zeit, physiol. Chem., X902, 35, 31-40. 

E. PiNOFF. Studien ueber die Tollensche Phloroglucin-SalzsSure-Reaktion auf Pentosen. 
Ber., X905, 3(8, 7fiC. 

C. Ravenna e O. Cbrbsbr. SulP origins e sullafunzionefsiologiea dei pentosani nelle 
piante, Atti. R. Accad. Lincei. X909, [v], 18, ii, X77-X83. 

B. Rayman. Isodulcite. Bull. Soc. Chim., X887, [ii], 47, 668-677. 

O. RuPF. d' und dl-Arabinose, Ber., X899, 32^ 550-560. 

E. Salkowski und C. Nbubbro. Die Verwandlung von d-Olucuronsdure in l-Xylose, 
Zeit. physioL Chem., 1902, 36^ 261-267. 

C. ScHULZE UND B. ToLLBNS. Ueber die Xylose und ihre Drehungserscheinungen, 

Annalen, 1892, a7x, 40-46. 

C. O'SuLLiVAN. Gum tragacanth (l-Xylose). J. Chem. Soc., X901, 79, X164-XX85. 

B. ToLLBNS. Ueber den Nachweis der Pentosen mittelst der Phloroglucin-SaUsdure- 
Methode, Ber., X896, ap^ X202-X209. 

E. Vonobrichten. Ober Apiin und Apiose, Annalen, X90X, 3x8, X2X-X36. 
B. Vonobrichten. Ueber Apiose, eine fi-Oxymethylerythrose. Annalen, X902, 331, 7X-83. 
E. Vonobrichten und Fr. Muller. Apiose, Ber., X906, 39^ 235-240. 
H. J. Wheeler und B. Tollens. Ueber die Xylose oder den Holzzucker^ eine zweite 
Pentose, Annalen, X889, 354, 304. 

E. VotoSek. Rhodeose. Chem. Centralblatt, 1900, i., 803, 8x6 ; X90X, i., XO42 ; X902, ii., 
X36X. 

147 10 * 



148 CARBOHYDRATES 

£• VotoSbk. Ueber die OhkosidsSuren dss ConvolvuUns und die Zusammensetzung der 
token Isorhodeose. Ber., 19x0, 43, 476-482. 

£. VotoSbk. IsO'Rhodeose, Ber., 1911, 44, 8x9-824. 

B. VotoSbk. Configuration der Rhodeose, Ber., xgxo, 43^ 469-475* 

£. Voto{5bk and C. Krauz. Epi-Rhodeose, Ber., X9xx, 44, 362-365. 

E. VoTodBK UND H. N£mb(5bk. KineHsche Studien in der Zuckerreihe, Zeit. Zucherind. 
Bohm., X9X0, 54, 237-248. 

£. VotoCek und R. Vondr/Sbk. Zuckercomponenten des yalafins undanderen Pflanzen- 
glucoside. Chexn. Centralblatt, X903, i., 884, X035. 



RBFERENCES TO CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS. 

J. BouQAULT ET G. Allard. Sur la presence de la volemite dans quelques Primulacees^ 

Compt. rend., 1902, 135, 796-797. 
£. FiscHBR. Ueher Adonit^ einen neuen PentiL Ber., 1893, 26, 633-639. 
£. Fischer, l^eber den Volemit, einen neuen Heptit, Ber., 1895, 28, 1973-X974. 
L. Maquenne. PersHte, Compt rend., 1888, zo6, 1235-1238. 
L« Maquenne. Le poids moUculaire et sur la valence de la persHte, Compt. rend., x888, 

I07» 583-586. 
L. Maquenne. Synthase parHelle de Virythrite gauche, Compt. rend., 1900, 150, 1402- 

X404. 
L. Maquennb et G. Bbrtrand. Sur les erythriies actives et racemique, Compt. rend., 

X901, 132^ 1419-X42X, 1565- 1567' Bull. Soc. Chim., X901, 25, 740-745. 

£. Merck. Adonite. Arch. Pharm., 1893, 232, 129-13X. 

A. MuNTZ BT V. Marcano. La PersHte^ matihe sucree, analogue a la mannite, Compt. 
rend., X884, 99^ 38-40. 

O. Trbboux. Starkebildung aus Sorbit bet Rosaceen. Ber. Deut. Bot. Ges., 1909, 27^ 
507-5x1. 

C« Vincent bt J. Meunier. Un nouveau sucre accompagnant la sorbite. Compt. rend.» 
X898, 127, 760-762. 



REFERENCES TO DISACCHARIDES. 

A. AlekhinUI MHezitose, Ann. Chim. PhyB., 1889, [vi], z8| 532-551 ; J. Russ. Chem. 
Soc, 1889, 2Z, 407-421. 

A. Bau. Biitrage xur KennttUss der MelUnose, Chem. Zeit, 1897, az, z86 ; and 1902, 

26, 69-70. 
G. Bbrtrand. Constitution de Vicianose : hydrolyse diastastgne, Compt rend., 19x0 

15X1 325-327. 
G. Bbrtrand bt A. Compton. Sur Vindividualite de la cellase et de Vhnulsine, Compt. 

rend., 1910, 151, 402-404. 
G. Bbrtrand et A. Compton. Influence de la tempSrature sur Vactiviti de la cellase, 

Compt rend., 1910, 151, 1076-X079. 

G. Bbrtrand bt A. Compton. Influence de la reaction du milieu sur VacHviti de la 

celkue, Nouveau caractere dtstincHf d^avec VSmulsine, Compt rend., 1911, igg, 

360-363. 
G. Bbrtrand and M. Holdbrbr. La Cellase et le didoublement diastasique du cellose. 

Compt rend., 1909, Z49, 1385-13^7 '* ^9^^* Z50i 230-233. 
G. Bbrtrand bt G. Wbiswbxllbr. Le Vicianose, nouveau sucre reducteur en C^, Compt 

rend., 1910, 150, 180-182. 

G. Bbrtrand bt G. Wbiswbxllbr. Le Constitution du vicianose et de la vicianine^ 
Compt. rend., 1910, 151, 884-886. 

Em. Bourqublot. Les matieres sucries de quelques esphes de champignons, Compt 
rend., 1889, zo8» 568-570. 

Em. Bourqublot. Les matures sucries chez les champignons^ Compt. rend., 1890, zzz, 
578-580. 

Em. Bourqublot. La repartition des matieres sucries dans les differentes parties du C^pe 
comestible {Boletus edulis. Bull,), Compt. rend., 1892, 1x3, 749-75X. 

Em. Bourqublot. Sur un ferment soluble nouveau didoublant le trihalose en glucose, 
Compt. rend., X893, xx6^ 826. 

E. FiscHBR UND G. Zbmpl^n. Verhalten der Cellobiose und ihres Osons gegen einige 

Enzyme, Annalen, 1909, 365, 1-6. 
E. Fischer und G. Zbmplbn., Verhalten der Cellobiose gegen einige Enzyme, Annalen 

X9XO, 372, 254-256. 
E. Fischer und G. Zbmplbn. Derivate der Cellobiose, Bet,, 1910, 43, 2536-2543. 
R. FoERO. Ueber die Glycolisierung von Biosen, Monatsh., 1903, 24, 357-363« 
J. GxAjA. Sur Visolement d^un sucre biose dSrivant de Vamygdaline, Compt rend., 19x0, 

XS0» 793-796. 
P. Harano. Recherche et dosage du trehalose dans Us vegetaux d Vaide de la trihalose, 

J, Pharm. Chim«, X906, 2^ x6. 

E. R. VON Hardt-Stremayr. Acetylderivate der Cellobiose, Monatsh., 1907, 28» 63-72. 

C. S. Hudson. Inversion of sucrose by invertase, I., II. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1908, 30^ 

XX60-1166; X564-1583. 
L. Maqubnne bt W. Goodwin. Cellose, Bull. Soc. Chim., 1904, 31, 854-859. 

W. Schlibmann. Ueber die Cellobiose und die Acetolyse der Cellulose, Annalen, X9xz, 

378, 366-38X. 
Z. H. Skraup. Vber Starke, Olykogen und Cellulose, Monatsh., 1905, 26, I4i5-X472« 

Z. H. Skraup und J. KSnig. Ueber die Cellobiose, Monatsh., X90X, 22, xoxx-xo36, 
Ber., 1901, 34, XI15-1118. 



X49 



REFERBNCE8 TO LACTOSE. 

H. BiBRRY BT J. GiAJA. L0 didouhlmMut dUutasiqn^t dm UuUne^ du maltose ei d§ Uurs 
derives, Compt rend, 1908, 147, 268-270. 

A. BoDART. HeftaeetykhhrmiUhMUcker, Monatsh., 1903, 2$, z-8. 

R. DiTTMAR. AbkdmmUnge des Milchtuckers, Ber., 1902, 55, X95Z-X953. 
DuBRUNFAUT. MUk-sugor, Compt rend., 1856, 42^ 228-233. 
£. O. Erdmamn. Ueher wasserfteien Milchzucker, Ber., z88o, 13^ 2z8o-2z84, 
E. FiscHBR UND H. FxscHBR. DeHvate der Maltose, Ber., X9Z0, 43, 252Z-2536. 

E. F18CBBR UMD J. Mbybr. Oxydation des Milchxuckers, Ber., Z889, 22^ 36Z-364. 

C. S. Hudson. Ueher die Multirotation des MiUhzmchers. Zeit physikal. Chem., Z903, 

44* 487-494- 
C* S. Hudson. The kydraium of milk sugar in solution, J. Asner. Chem. Soc, Z904, 26, 

Z065-Z082. 

C. S. Hudson. Forms of lactose, J. Amer. Chem. Soc, Z908, 50^ Z767-Z783. 

C. S. Hudson and F. C. Brown. Heats of solution of the three forms qf lactose, J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc., Z906, 30^ 960-97Z. 

F. H. A. Marshall and J. M. Kirknbss. Formation of lactose, Biochem. J., Z906, 2, 

z-6. 

< D. NoBL Paton and E. p. Cathcart. On the mode of production of lactose in the 
mammary gland, J. Physiol., zgzz, 42^ Z79-188. 

R. H. Adbrs Plimmbr. Presence of lactase in the intestines of animals and the adaptation 
of the intestine to lactose, J. Physiol., Z906, 35^ 2o-3Z. 

Ch. Porchbr. Sur la lactophinylosazone. Bull. Soc. Chim., Z903, 2^ Z223*Z227. 

Cr. Porcrbr. Sur Vorigine du lactose, Compt. rend., Z904, 158, 833*836; 924-996; 

1457-1459. 
Cr. Porcrbr. Sur Vorigine du lactose, Compt rend., Z905, 140^ Z279. 

Ch. Porchbr. Sur Vorigine du lactose, Compt rend., Z905, 241, 73-75 ; 467-469. 

O. Rbinbrbcht. Lactose- und Maltosecarbonsdure, Annalen, Z892, 272^ Z97-20o. 

M. ScBMOBOBR. NoHm uher acetylirten Milchzucker und uher die im polarisirten Licht 
sich verschieden verhaltenden Modificationen des Milchzuckers, Ber., z892, 2^ 
Z452-Z455. 

Z. H. Skraup und R. Krbmann. Ueher Acetochlormilchzucker, Monatsh., Z90Z, 29^ 

375-384. 

B. Tollbns und W. H. Kbnt. Untersuchungen Uher Milchzucker und Galactose, 

Annalen, Z885, 227, 22Z-232. 

H. Trey. Rotationserscheinungen der Laktose, Zeit physikal Chem., Z903, 46^ 6ao«7Z9. 



Z50 



REFERENCES TO MALTOSE. 

J. L. Bakbr AMD F. E. Day. The preparation of pure maltose. Report Brit. Amoc., 
Dublin, 1908, 671-672. 

Dttbkunfaut. Le Glucose, Ann. Chim. phys., 1847, [iii], 2Z, 178-180. 

E. Fischer und H. Fischer. Derivate des Milchtuckers und der Mahose; und zwei 
neue Glucoside, Ber., 1910, 43, 2521-2536. 

B. Fischer und J. Meyer. Oxydation dev Maltose, Ber., 1889, 22^ 1941-1943. 
R. FoBRO. Hsptaaetykhlormaliose. Monatsb.^ 1902, 23, 44-50. 

A. flsxzFBJUD. Maltose, Anaalen, 1883, 220» 206-224. 

W. KoEsiGS UND £. Knosr. H^ptaeetylmaltouniirai und Heptao£fyl'0'metkylmaltosid. 
Ber., 1901, 34, 4343-4348. 

T. Dx Saumurb. La decomposition de Pamidon d la tempitaiwre de Vaimosfhire^ par 
Paction de Pair et de Peau, Ann. Chini. pdiys., 18x9, zz, 379-408. 

G. Schubpbackb. Muiatvtation der maltose, Annalen, 19x0, 377, x64-i88. 

£. Schultze. Maltose, Ber., 1874, 7, X047-X049. 

C. O'SuLLiVAN. On the transformation products of starch, J. Cbem. Soc., 1872, 25; 

579-588. 

C. O'SuLLiVAN. On the action of malt-extract on starch, J, Chem. Soc, 1876, 30^ 
za5-x44. 



X51 



REFERENCES TO TRISACCHARIDES. 

M. Bbrthelot. Quelquis matures sucries, Ann. Chim. phys., 1856, [iii], 46, 66-89. 

M. Bbrthelot. Lm corps analogues au sucre de canne, Ann. Chim. phys.f 1859, [iii], 55, 

269-296. 

Em. Bourquelot. Sur la physiologie du gentianose; son dSdoublement par Us ferments 
solubles. Compt. rend., 1898, za6i 1045-1047. 

£. Bourqublot et M. Bridbl. Un sucre nouveau le Verhascose retire de la racine de 
tnolene. Compt. rend., 19x0, 151, 760-762. 

Em. Bourqublot et H. HiRissEY. Sur Vhydrolyse du meUzitose par les ferments 
solubles, J. Pharm. Chim., 1896, 4, 385-387. 

Em. Bourqublot bt H. H^rissey. Sur le gentiobiose et gentianose et les ferments 
solubles que deternUnent Vhydrolyse des polysaccharides. Compt rend., 1901, 132, 
571-574; 1902, 13s, 290-292, 399-401; 1903, 136, 762-764. 1143-1146. 

Em. Bourqublot bt L. Nardin. Sur la preparation du gentianose. Compt. rend., 
1898, I26t 280. 

H. KiLiANi. Ueber die Pormeln der Polysaccharide. Chem. Zeit., 1908, 32, 366. 

J. Khouri. La presence du sttuhyose^ mannotetrose et (Fun glucoside dSdoublable par 
VEmulsine dans les parties souterraines de Veremostachys laciniata, J. Pharm. 
Chim., X910, [vii], 2, 2x1-213. 

£. VON LiPPMANN. Die Quelle der in den Producten der Zuckerfabrikatian enthaltenen 
Raffinose (Melitose), Bet., 1885, z8, 3087-3090. 

D. LoiSBAu. Une nouvelle substance organique cristallisie [Raffinosel. Compt. rend., 

X876, 82, 1058-1060. 

L. Maquenne. La composition de la miellie du TilUul. Compt. rend., X893, 1x7, 
127- X29. 

A. Meyer. Ueber Gentianose. Zeit physiol. Chem., 1882, 6, X35-138. 

C. Nbuberg. Abbau der Raffinose zu Rohrzucker und Galaktose. Biochem. Zeit., X907, 
3, 5x9. Zeit. ver. deat. Zuckerind., X907, 6x5, 440-453. 

Pautz und Vogbl. Ueber die Einwirkung der Magen und Darmschleimhaut auf einige 
Biosen und auf Raffinose, Zeit. Biol., 1895, 32* 304. 

A. VON Planta und E. Schulze. Ein neues krystallisbares Kohlenhydrat. SUichyose. 
Ber., 1890, 23, X692-X699; 189X, 24, 2705-2709. 

H. RiTTHAUSEN. McUtose aus Baumwollsamen. J. pr. Chem., X884, 29, 35X-357. 

C. ScHEiBLBR. Die Abscheidung von Raffinose aus den RubenzuckermeUissen. Ber., X885, 
z8, 1409-1413. 

C. ScHBiBLER. Die Zusammensetzung und einige Eigenschaften der Raffinose. Ber., 
1885, 18, 1779-1786. 

C. ScHEZBLBR. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Melitriose Raffinose, deren Nachweis und 
quantitative Bestimmung neben Rohrzucker. Ber., 1886, X9, 2868-2874. 

C. ScHEiBLBR UND H. MiTTBLMEiER. Die Inversumsprodiute der Melitriose. Ber., 1889, 
22, 1678-1686. 

C. SCHEIBLBR UND H. MiTTBLMEiBR. Wciterc Beitfoge zur Kenntniss der Melitriose 
und der Melibiose. Ber., 1890, 23, X438-1443. 

£. Schulze. Zur Kenntniss der krystallisirten Stachyose. Landw. Versuchsstat, 1902, 
56, 419-423. 

E. Schulze. Stachyose und Lupeose. Ber., 1910, 43, 2230-2234. 

E. Schulzb UND Ch. Godbt. Untersuchungen uber die in den Pflanzensamen enthaltenen, 
Kohlenhydrate. Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., X909, 6z, 279-35 x. 

C. O'SuLLiVAN. On the presence of "raffinose" in barley, J. Chem. Soc., 1886, 49, 
70.74. 

152 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 153 

C. Tanrbt. Sur deux sucres nouveaux retiris de fa \mann0t U manneotetrose et U 
manninoMose. Compt rend., 1902, Z34, 1580-1589. Bull. Soc. Chim., • zQoa, 37, 
947-963. — . 

C. Tanrbt. Sur U stachyos$. Compt rend., 1903, 156, Z569-X57X- BalL Soc. Qum., 
1903, 29, 888. 

C. Tanrbt bt G. Tanrbt. Stir U rhamniuos$. Compt. rend., 1899, xap, 725-728. 

G. Tanrbt. MiUzitose et turanose, Compt. rend., 1906, 242, 1424-1426. 

B. ToLLBNS. Untenuchung von Melitose odsr Raffinose aus Mekuse, Baumwolhamen und 
Eucalyptus Manna, Annalen, z886, ^32, 169-205. 

A. ViLLiBRS. Melitose, Ber., 1877, zo, 232-233. 

J, Vxntxlbsco. V action des ferments sur le stocky ose. J. Fharm. Chim., 1909, 30* 
167-173. 



REFERENCES TO THE RELATION BETWEEN CONFIGURATION AND 

BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Ennyme action. III. The influmce of the products of 
change on the rate of change conditioned by sucroclastic enxymes, Proc Roy. Soc., 
1904* 73^ 516-526. 

£. Frankland Armstronq. Enuyme action, VIII. The mechanism of fermentation,, 
Proc Roy. Soc., 1905, 76 B, 600-605. 

E. Frankx^and Armstrong. The nature of enzyme action, J, Inst. Brewing, 1905, zz» 

443-451. 
H. E. Armstrong. The nature of chemical change and the conditions which determine it, 
J. Chem. Soc., 1895, 67, 1136 [1122-1172]. 

H. £. Armstrong and E. F. Armstrong. Enzyme action, X. The nature of enzymes, 
Ftoc, Roy. Soc., 1907, 79 B, 360-365. 

H. E. Armstrong, £. F. Armstrong and £. Horton. Enzyme action, XII. The 
enzymes of emulsin, Proc Roy. Soc, 1908, 80 B, 322-331. 

H. P. Barendrecht. Enzymwirkung, I., II. Zeit. physikal. Chem., 1904, 49^ 456-482 ; 

1906, 54, 367-375. 
G. Bbrtrand. Action de la hacterie du sorbose sur les alcools piurivalents. Bull. Soc* 

Chim., 1898, [iii], 19, 347-349; 947-948; 999-ioo5. 

G. Bbrtrand. Sur Uproduit d'oxydation de la glycerine par la bacthie du Sorbose, 
Compt rend*, X898, 126, 842-844. 

G. Bbrtrand. Preparation biochimique de la dioxy acetone cristalUsie, Compt. rend.^ 
1898, Z26, 984-986. 

G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bacterie du Sorbose sur les sucres de bois, Compt. rend., 
1898, 127, 124-127. 

G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bactirie du Sorbose sur les sucres aldehydiques, Compt. rend., 
1898, 127, 728-730. 

G. Bbrtrand. La Bacthie du Sorbose, Ann. Chim. Phys., 1904, [viii], 3, 181-288. 

H. Bibrry. Invertines et laccases Animates Leur specifite, Compt. rend., 1909, X48» 
949-952. 

H. Bibrry. DSdoublement diastasique des a et 0-methyl^glucosides. Compt rend., 1909, 

X49i 314-316. 
H. Bibrry. Ferments digestifs du Manninotriose et de ses Derives, Compt. rend., i9iz» 

X52» 465-467. 
H. Bibrry. Ferments digestifs des Hexotrioses et du Stachyose, Compt. rend., 191X1 152^ 
904-906. 

H. Bibrry and J. Giaja. Sur le dedoublement dicLstasique du lactose, du maltose et de 
leurs derives, Compt. rend., 1908, Z47, 268-270. 

H. Bibrry et A. Rang. Le dedoublement diastasique des derives du lactose. Compt* 
rend., 1910, 150, 1366-1368. 

Em. Bourqublot. Generalites sur les ferments solubles qui diterminent Vhydrolyse des 
polysaccharides. Compt. rend., 1903, 136, 762-764. 

£. Bourquelot et M. Bridbl. Action de Vinvertine sur les polysaccharides dSrivis du 
levulose. Compt rend., 19x1, 152^ Z060-X062. 

A. J. Brown. The chemical action of pure cultivations of bacterium aceti, J. Chem. 

Soc, x886, 49^ X72-X87. 
R. J. Caldwell and S. L. Courtauld. Enzyme action, IX. The enzymes of yeast 

—amygdalase, Proc. Roy. Soc, X907, 79 B, 350-359. 

F. CzAPEK. Untersuchungen uber die Stickstoff gewinnung und Eiweissbildung der Schim-- 

melpilze. Beitr. chem. Physiol. Path., X902, 3, 47-66. 

154 



BIBLIOGRAPHY i5S 

F. DiXNBRT. Smt la fermeutation du galaitoa, Compt rend., 1899, laH, 569-571 ; 
617-618. 

F. DiBNBRT. Sur la sScrition des diastasis, Compt rend., 1899, 199, 63*64. 

F. DiENERT. Sur la fermentation du Galactose et sur Vaccoutumance des levures d ce 
Sucre* Ann. Inst Patsteur, 1900, 14, 139-189. 

O. Emmerlino. Zur Kenntniss des Sorbose bacteriums, Ber., 1899, 33, 541-542. 

O. Emm BRUNO. Das verhalten von Glycerinaldehyd und DioMyaeetone gegen Hefe, Ber., 

i899» 3^ 542-544. 
E. Fischer. Einfiuss der Konfiguration auf die Wirkung der Enzyme, I.-III. Ber., 1894, 

27, 2985.2993 ; 3479-3483 ; i895» a8| 1429-1438. 
E. FiscHBR. Bedeutung der Stereochemie fur die Physiologie, Zeit. phystoL Chem., 

1898, a6» 60-87. 

E. Fischer und P. Lindner. Ueber die Enzyme einiger Hefen, Ber., 1895, aH, 984- 

986, 3034-3039. 
E. Fischer und W. Niebbl. Ueber das Verhalten der Polysaccharide gegen einige 

tierische Sekrete und Organe. Sitzungsber. K. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, i89i5, 73. 

£. Fischer und H. Thibrfeldbr. Verhalten der verschiedenen Zucker gegen reine 
Hefen, Ber., 1894, 27, 2031-2037. 

P. F. Frankland and J. J. Fox. Fermentation of mannitol and glycerol. Proc. Roy. 

Soc, 1889, 46, 345-357. 
P. F. Frankland and W. Frew. A pure fermentation of mannitol and dulcitoU 

J. Chem. Soc., 1892, 6z, 254-277. 

P. F. Frankland and J. S. Lumsdbn. The decomposition of mannitol and dextrose by 
the Bacillus ethaceticus. J. Chem. Soc, 1892, 6Zy 432-444. 

P. F. Frankland and J. MacGreoor. The fermentation of arabinose by Bacillus 

ethaceticus, J. Chem. Soc., 1892, 61, 737-745* 
P. F. Frankland, A. Stanlby and W. Frew. Fermentations induced by the Pneumo- 

coccus of Friedl&nder, J. Chem. Soc., 1891, 59, 253-270. 
A. Harden. The chemical action on glucose of the lactose fermenting organisms of the 

faces, J. Hygiene, 1905, S 488-493* 
A. Harden. The chemical action of Bacillus coli communis and similar organisms on 

carbohydrates and allied compounds, J. Chem. Soc., 1901, 79, 610-628. 

A. Harden and G. S. Walpole. Chemical action of bacillus lactis aerogenes on glucose 

and mannitol, Proc Roy. Soc, 1906, 77 B, 399-405. 
T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. On the probable existence of emulsin in yeast. Proc. 

Roy. Soc, 1905, 76 By 568-580. 

A. VON Lbbedeff. Ueber Hexosephosphors&ureester, I. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1910, a6| 
2x3-229. 

A. VON Lebedbff. Ueber Hexosephosphors&ureester. H. Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x1, 36, 
248-260. 

A. VON Lbbedeff. Sur le mecanisme de la fermentation alcoolique, Compt. rend., X9xx, 

X53, 136-139. 
L. LiNDET. Sur le pouvoir ilectif des celules vigetales vis-a-vis du dextrose et du tevulose. 

Compt. rend., 19x1, 152, 775-777. 
P. Lindner and K. Saito. Assimilability of different carbohydrates by different yeasts. 

Chem. Soc. Abstr., 19x1, ii., 758. Woch. Braneri., X9X0, 27, 509. 

H. TER Meulen. Recherches experimentales sur la nature des sucres de quelques glucosides, 
Rec. trav. Chim., X905, 34, 444-483. 

H. Pottevin. Influence de la configuration stheochimique des glucosides sur VactivitS 
des diastases hydrolytiques, Ann. Inst. Pasteur, X903, 17, 3X. Compt. rend., X903, 
I3fi» 169-X7X. 

T. PuRDiE AND J. C. Irvine. The stereoisomeric tetramethyl methyl glucosides and tetra- 
methylglucose. J. Chem. Soc, X904, 85, X049-X070. 

E. Salkowskl Verhalten der Pentosen im Thierhorper. Zeit. physiol. Chem., X90X, 33, 

393-412. 
A. Slator. Chemical dynamics of alcoholic fermentation by yeast. J. Chem. Soc, 

X906, 89^ X28-X42. 

A. Slator. The factors which influence the rate of alcoholic fermentation. Brit. Assoc 
Report, Dublin, X908, 674-675. 



IS6 CARBOHYDRATES 

A. Slator. Studies in fermentation. Part II. The mechanism of alcoholic fermentation. 
J. Chem. Soc., 1908, 93, 2x7-241. 

A. Slator. Ueher Dioxy-aceton ah Zwischenstufe der alkoholische G&rung. Ber., X912, 

4S 43-46. 
G. Tamman. Die Reactionen der ungeformten Fetmente, Zeit. phjrsiol Chem., 1892, z6^ 

27Z-328. 

G. Tamman« Zur Wirhung ungeformter Fermente. Zeit. physikal Chem., 1895, 28, 426. 
G. Tamman. Ueber die Wirhung der Fermente. Zeit, physikal Chem., 1889, 3^ 25-37« 



REFERENCES TO HYDROLYSIS OF DISACCHARIDES. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme actkm. 11. Th0 rat$ of the change condiHonsdlby 
sueroelasHc enMynus and its bsaring on th$ law of mass action, Proc. Roy. Sdc., 
1904. 73f 500-516. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme action. V. Hydrolysis of isomeric glucosides and 
gaUutosidis by acids and enzymes. Proc Roy. Soc., 1904, 7^ 188-194. 

£. Frankland Armstrong and R. J. Caldwell. Enzyme action, IV. and VI. The 
sucroclastic action of acids as contrasted with that of enzymes. Proc. Roy. Soc., 
1904, 73, 526-537 ; 74, 195-201. 

H. E. Armstrong and W. H. Glover. Enzyme action. XI. Hydrolysis ofraffinose by 
acids and enzymes. Proc. Roy. Soc, 1908, 80 B, 3x2-321. 

S. Arrhenius. Die Reaktionsgeschwindigkeit bei der Inversion von Rohrzucker durch 
Sduren. ZeiU physikal Chem., 1889, 4, 226-248. 

A. J. Brown. Enzyme action. [Velocity of inversion of cane sugar by invertase."] 
J. Chem. Soc., 1902, Sz, 373-388. 

H. T. Brown and S. Pickering. Thermochemistry of carbohydrate hydrolysis, J. Chem. 

Soc., 1897, 71, 783-795. 
R. J. Caldwell. Hydrolysis of cane sugar by d- and l-camphor-fi-suiphonic acid. Proc. 

Roy. Soc., 1904, 74, 184-187. 

R. J. Caldwell. The hydrolysis of sugars. [ContcUns a complete bibliography."] Brit. 
Assoc. Report, York, 1906, 267-292. 

V. Henri. Influence du sucre inverti sur la vitesse dHnversion par la sucrase. Compt. 
rend. Soc. Biol., 1901, 53, 288. 

C.S.Hudson. Inversion of Sucrose by Invertase, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1908, 50, xi6o- 
1166, 1564-1583 ; 1909, 31, 655-664; 1910, 32, 774-779> 885-889, 985-989, 1220-1222, 
1350-1357. 

E. Meissl. Maltose. J. prakt. Chem., 1882, 25, 114-130. 

J. Meyer. Zur Theorie der Rohrzuckerinversion, Zeitsch. physik. Chem., 1908, 62, 
59-88. 

W. OsTWALD. Das elektrische Leitungsvermogen der S&uren. J. prakt. Chem., 1884, 30, 

93-95- 
W. OsTWALD. Die Inversion des Rohrzuchers^ II. J. prakt. Chem., 1885, 31, 307-317. 

A. VON Sigmund. Die Geschwindigkeit der Maltose-Hydrolyse. Zeit. physikal Chem., 
1898, 27, 385-400. 

A. E. Taylor. Inversion of cane sugar and maltose by ferments. J. Biol. Chem., 1909, 

s 405-407. 

L. Wilhblmy. Ueber das Gesetz, nach welchem die Einwirhung der Sduren auf den Rohr- 
zucker stattfindet : V., 1850. Pogg. Ann. Chem., Sz, 413, 499. Reprint Ostwald's 
Klassiker, No. 29. 

A. WoHL. Zur Kenntniss der Kohlenhydrate, I. Ber., 1890, 23, 2084-2110. 



157 



REFERENCES TO SYNTHESIS OF MONOSACCHARIDES. 

A. Basybr. Vehif die Wass^rsHtxiehung und ihr$ B$deutung fur das PflannmUhen und 
die Gdhrung, Ber., 1870, 3, 63-78. 

E. Baur. Bin Modell der KohUnsduriasH'mtaHon. Zeit. physikal Chem., 1908, ti^ 
683-7za 

T. Bokormt. Emdhrung von grunen PJlanzen mit Formaldekyd und formaldehydahspal- 
ienden SubstanMgn. Biochem. Zeitach., zgix, 56, 83-97. 

H. T. Brown and G. H. Morris. On th$ germination of some of the graminea, 
J. Chem. Soc., x8go, 57, 458-53X. 

H. T. Brown and G. H. Morris. A contribution to the chemistry and physiology of 
foliage leaves, J. Chem. Soc, 1893, 631 G04-683. 

A. BuTLEROW. Bildung einer Mucherattigen Substant durch Synthese. Axmalen, x86z, 

xao, 295-298. 

A. BuTLBROW. Formation synthitique d'une substance sucrie. Compt rend., x86x, 53, 
X45.X47. 

A. V. Campbell. The carbohydrates of the mangold leaf. J. Agric. Sci., 19x2, ^ 
248-259. 

H. EuLER UND A. EuLER. Zur Kenntniss der Zuckerbildung aus Formaldehyd, Ber., 

1906, 39, 39-45. 
H. EuLER UND A. EuLER. Ucbcr die Bildung von i-Arabinoketose aus Formaldehyd, 

Bcr., X906, 39, 45-51. 

A. J. EwART. On the supj^osed extracellular photosynthesis of carbon dioxide by chloro- 

phyll, Proc. Roy. Soc., X908, 80 B, 30*36. 

H. J. H. Fenton. a new synthesis in the sugar group, J. Chem. Soc., X897, 71, 

375-383. 
H. J. H. Fenton and H. Jackson. Crystalline glycollic aldehyde, J. Chem. Soc.» 1899, 

75. 575-579. 
H. J. H. Fenton. Degradation of glycollic aldehyde, J. Chem. Soc., X900, 77, X294- 

1298. 

H. J. H. Fenton. The reduction of carbon dioxide to formaldehyde in aqueous solution. 
J. Chem. Soc., 1907, 91, 687-694. 

E. Fischer. Synthesen in der Zuchergrufpe, I., 11., III. Ber., X890, 2^ 2XX4-2X4X; 
X894, 27, 3x89-3232. Textbook, Berhn, X909. 

B. Fischer. Synthese der Mannose und Lavulose, Ber., X890, 2^ 370-394. 
£. Fischer. Synthese des Traubenzuckers, Ber., X890, 2^ 799-805. 

£. Fischer Und F. Fassmorb. Bildung von Acrose aus Formaldehyde. Ber., X889, 22, 

359-361. 
E. Fischer und J. Tafbl. Synthetische Versuehe in der Zuckergruppe, I.-III. Ber 
1887, 20, 2566-2575 ; 3384-3390 ; X889, 22, 97-101. 

V. Grafe. Untersuchungen uber das Verhalten gruner Pflanzen mu gasformigem For- 
maldehyd, Ber., Deut. Bot. Ges., 191 1, 29, 19-26. 

R. J. Harvey Gibson. A photoelectric theory of photosynthesis, Ann, of Botany, X908, 

22, XX7-X20. 

H. Jackson. Condensation of formaldehyde and the formation of fi-acrose, Proc. Camb. 
Phil. Soc., X90X, zz, XX7. 

O. LoBW. Formaldehyd und dessen Condensation, J. prakt. Chem., x886, [ii], 33, 32X-351. 

O. LoBW. Bildung von Zuckerarten aus Formaldekyd, Ber., 1889, 22, 470-478. 

E. Mambli et G. Pollaci. Intomo a recenti ricercke sulla fotosintesi clorqfilliana, 
Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, X908, V., Z7, i., 739-744. 

158 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 1 59 

R. Mbldola. Pf$sidenHal address: problems of photosynthesis by growing plants. 
J. Chem. Soc., 1906, 89, 745-770. 

C. Nbubbrg. Depolymerisation du Zucherarten, Biochem. Zeit., 1908, Z2, 337-341. 

J. Parkin. Carbohydrates of the snowdrop leaf and their bearing on the first sugar of 
photosynthests. Biochem. J., zgii, 0, 1-47. 

J. Sachs. Binfiuss des Lichtes aufdie Bildung des Amylums in den Chhrophyllkomem. 
Bot. Zeit., 1862, 20, 365-373. 

S. B. ScHRYVBR. The hhotochemical formation ' of formaldehyde in green plants* Proc. 
Roy. Soc, 1910, a B, 226-233. 

S. Strakosch. Bin Beitrag Mur Kenntnis des Kohlenhydratstoffwechsels von Beta 
vulgaris (Znchirrube), Sitz. ber. K. Akad. Wits. Wien., 1907, zz6, 855. 

^^ P. L. UsRBR AND J. H. Pribstlby. A study of the mechotUsm of carboM iustmUoHon in 

green plants, Proc. Roy. Soc, 1906, 77 0, 369-376. 

Yi. P. Lr. UsHBR AND J. H. Pribstlbt. Meckonism of Carbon Asdmilaiiont III. Proc. Roy. 

Soc., Z91X, 84 B, Z0Z-112. 

J^. L. UsHBR AND J. H. Pribstlby. The phoiolftic decomposition of carbon dioxide in 
vitro, Proc. Roy. Soc., Z906, 78 B, 3z8-327. 



«,: 



I.*' 



REFERENCES TO SYNTHESIS OF DISACCHARIDES. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme action, VII. The synthetic action of adds con- 
trasted with thai of enjtymes. Synthesis of maltose and isomaltose, Proc. Roy. 
Soc, 1905, 76 B, 592-599- 
O. Emmerling. Synthetische Wirkung dsr Hefemaltase. Ber., 1901, 34, 600-605, 2206- 
2207, 38x0-38x1. 

E. Fischer. Synthese einer neuen Glucobiose. Ber., 1890, 23, 3687-369X ; 1895, 28» 3024- 
3028. 

£. Fischer und E. F. Armstrong. Synthese einiger neuer DiscLCcharide, Ber., 1902, 551 

3144-3153. 
£. Fischer und K. Dblbruck. Synthese neuer Disaccharide von Typus der Trehalose, 

Ber., X909, 42, 2776-2785. 

T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. The probable existence of emulsin in yeast, Proc. 

Roy. Soc., X905, 76 B, 568-580. 
R. O. Herzog. On the action of emulsin, Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1903, 

6, 332-339. 
A. Croft Hill. Reversible Mymohydrolysis. J. Chem. Soc., 1898, 73, 634-658. 
A. Croft Hill. Taka-diastase and reversed ferment action. Proc. Chem. Soc, 1901, 

17. 184. 
A. Croft Hill. Synthetic action on dextrose with pancreatic ferment. Journ. of 

Physiol., X902, 28, Proc xxvi. 
A. Croft Hill. The reversibility of enzyme or ferment action. J. Chem. Soc, 1903, 

83, 578-598. 
A. Croft Hill. Bemerkung zu O. Emmerling. Synthetische Wirkung der Hefenmaltase. 

Bet., X90X, 34, 1380. 
J. H. Van't Hoff. Synthetische Permentwirkung /., II. Sitz. Ber. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 

X909, X065-X076 ; X910, 963-970- 
J. Peklo. Vorkommen von Starke in der Zuckerrubenwurzel. Bied. Zentr., X91X, 40, 

386-387. 

H. Pottevin. Actions dicutasiques reversibles. Formation et dedoublement des Hhers-sels 
sous rinfiuence des duistases du pancreas. Ann. Inst. Pasteur, 1906, 20, 901-923. 

R. A. Robertson, J. C. Irvine and M. £. Dobson. A polarimetric study of the sucroclctstic 

enzymes in Beta Vulgaris. Biochem. J., X909, 4, 258-273. 
L. RosENTHALER. Durch enzyme bewirkte ctsymmetrische Synthesen, I., II. Biochem. 

Zeitsch., X908, 14, 238-253; 1909, 17, 257-269. 

A. W. VissER. Reaktionsgeschwindigkeit und chemisches Gleichgewicht in homogenen 
Systemen und der en Anwendung auf Enzymwirkungen. Zeit. physikal Chem., 
I905» 5*1 257-309. 

A. WoHL. Zur Kenntniss der Kohlenhydrate. Ber., 1890, 23, 2084-21x0. 



160 



REFERENCES TO GLUCOSIDES. 

L. BouRDXBR. La frisence de " Vaucubins " dans Us differentes esfeces du genre Plantago. 
J. Pharm. Chim., igojt [vi], a6^ 254<266. 

£m. Bourquelot. Recherche dans les vefetaux du sucre de canne d Vaide de VinverHne 
et des glucosides d Vaide de I'imulstne, J. Pharm. Chim., zgoz, 14, 481. 

£if. Bourquelot. Stir VempUn des enuymes comme retuHfs dans les recherches de 
laboratoire, [Contains a bibliography.] J. Pharm. Chim., 1906, 54, 165 ; 1907, 55, 
16 et 378. 

Em. Bourquelot et A. Fichtenholz. ArhuHne et wUthylarbuHne, CaracUres,disHncHon 
et recherche dans les vigitaux. J. Pharm. Chim., 1910, [vii], z, 62-66, 104-109. 

Em. Bourquelot et A. Fichtenholz. Leglucoside desfeuilles depairier, Compt. rend.^ 
1910, 151, 81-84 ; 1911, 153, 468-471. 

Em. Bourquelot et A. Fichtenholz. Leglucoside des feuilles de poirier; son rdle dans 
la production des teintes automnales de ces organes. J. Ph'arm. Chim., 1911, [vii], 3^ 

5-13. 
Em. Bourquelot et A. Fichtenholz. Sur la prisence de Varbutine dans les feuilles du 
Grevillea Robusta, Compt. rencL, 19x2, 154, zio6-zzoS. 

Em. Bourquelot et H. H^rissey. Action de Vemulsine de V Aspergillus niger sur 
quelques glucosides. Bull. Soc. MycoL, X896, zz, 199. 

Em. Bourquelot et H. H^rissey. Sur Vaucubine, glucoside de VAucuba japonica* 
Ann. Chim. Phys., X905, [viii], 4, 289-3x8. 

Em. Bourquelot et H. Hibrissey. L*arbuHne et quelques-uns de ses derives, consideres 
au point de vue de leur pouvoir rotatoire et leur didoublement par Vemulsine. 
Compt. rend., 1908, Z46^ 764-766. 

Em. Bourquelot et J. Vintilesco. L^oleuropiine^ nouveau principe de nature gluco- 
sidique retire de V Olivier {Olea europaa L.). Compt. rend., 1908, Z47, 533 535* 

M. Bridel. La MiliatinCy nouveau glucoside, hydrolysable par Vemulsine, retiri du 
Trefie d'eau, Compt. rend., 19ZX, Z5a^ 1694-1696. 

£. Fischer. Ueber einige Derivate des Heliclns, Ber., 190 1, 34, 629-631. 

E. Fischer und W. von Lobben. Ueber die VerbrennungswUrme einiger Glucoside, 
Sitzungsber. K. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, 1901, 323-325. 

J. Gadamer. Les glucosides des moutardes noire et blanche. J. Pharm., 1896, 4, 462. 

H. H^rissey. Preparation de VArbutine vraie. Compt. rend., 1910, z5z, 444-447 ; J.. 
Pharm. Chim., X910, [vii], 2, 248-253. 

H. H^RissBY ET C. Lebas. Presence de Vaucubine dans plusieurs espices du genre 
Garry a. J. Pharm. Chim., X910, 2, 490-494. 

H. Hlasiwetz und J. Habermann. Das Arbutin. Ann. Chem. pharm., X875, z77^ 

334-343. 
H. A. D. Jowett and C. E. Potter. Variations in the occurrence of salicin and salinigrin 

in different willow and poplar barks. Pharm. J., 1902, Aug^t 16. 

A. Kawalier. Untersuchung der Blatter von Arctostaphylos uva ursi, Ann. Chem.. 
Pharm., 1852, 84, 356-360. 

H. Kiliani. Digitoxose. Ber., 1905, 38, 4040-4043. 

C. Lbfebvrb. Anwendung der biochemischen Methode sum Nachweis der Zuckerarten^ 
und der Glykoside in den PJlanzen der Familie der Taxinen. Arch. Pharm., X907, 
24s 493~502' J* Pharm. Chim., 1907, 26, 241-254. 

C. LiEBERMANN UND O. HoRMANN. Die Forbstoffc und den Glycosidzucker der Gelb- 
beeren, Annalen, 1879, Z96^ 299-338. 

E. O. LiPPMANN. Der Zucker des PopuUns, Ber., 1879, Z2, 1648-X649. 

i6x II 



i62 CARBOHYDRATES 

H. TER Meulbn. Sur qu0lqu€s glucosides conUnant (Us senevols. Rec trav. Chim.» 
1900. 1^ 37-45. 

R. PxRiA. Untersuchungen uber das Salicin, Ann. Chem. Pharm., 1845, 56^ 35-77* 

R. PiRiA. Das PopuUn,. Ann. Chem. Pharm., 1852, Sz, 245-247 ; 1855, 96^ 375-383. 

£. H. Rennib. On Phloridzin, J. Chem. Soc., 1887, 51, 634-637. 

H. ScHiFF. Constitution des Arbuiins, Ann. Chem. Pharm., z88o, 206^ 159- 167. 

H. ScHipp UND G. Pbllizzari. Methylarbutinf Benzylarbutin und Benzyldioxy benzole, 

Annalen, 1883, 221, 365-379« 
£. Schmidt. Zur Kenntniss der Rhamnoside. z. Rutin* 2. Sophorin, 3. Cappern- 

Rutin. 4. Robinin. Arch. Pharm., 1904, 242, 2x0-224. 

£. ScHULZE UND G. Tribr. Identtt&t des Vemins und des Guanosins nebst Einigen 
Bemerkungen uber Vicin und Convicin, Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., 19x1, 70^ X43-X51. 

ScHUNCK. On rubin and its products of decomposition. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc, X851, 433. 

ScHUNCK. Erythrozyme. Phil. Trans., X853, 74. 

Spatzibr. Ueber das Auftreten und die physiologische Bedeutung des My rosins in der 
Pflanze. Pringsheim*8 Jahrb., X893, 25^ 39. 

A. Streckbr. Das Arbutin und seine Verwundlungen, Ann. Chem. Pharm., X858, Z07, 
228-234. 

Ch. et G. Tanret. Sur la rhamninase et la xanthorhamnine. Bull. Soc Chim., 1899, 
21, X073. 

F. TiBMANN. Vanillinsdure. Bet., 1875, 8^ 509-515. 

F. Tiemann. Coniferylalkohol, das bei Einwirkung von Emulsin auf Coniferin neben 
Traubenzucker entstehende Spaltungsprodukte sowie Aethyl und Methyl vamlUn. 
Ber., X875, 8, XX27-XX36. 

F. TiBMANN. Die der Coniferyl und Vanillin Reihe angehorigen Verbindungen. Ber., 
X876, 9^ 409-423, X278-1284. 

F. TiBMANN. Glucovanillin und Glucovanillylalkohol, Ber., X885, z8^ X595-x6oo. 

P. TiBMANN AND W. Haarmann. Dos Coniferin und seine Umwandlung in das 
aromatische Princip der Vanille, Ber., X874, 7, 608-623. 

£. Winterstbin und H. Blau. Beitr&ge zur Kenntnis der Saponine. Zeitsch. physiol. 
Chem., X911, 75, 410-442. 



REFERENCES TO AMYGDALIN. 

S. J. M. AuLD. The hydrolysis of amygdalin by emulsint I., II. J. Chem. Soc., 1908, 
93, X25Z-128X. 

R. J. Caldwell and S. L. Courtauld. The hydrolysis of amygdaUn by acids. J. Chem. 
Soc., 1907, pZy 666-671. 

R. J. Caldwbll and S. L. Courtauld. MandeUmitrile glucosides, Prulaurasin, 
J. Chem. Soc., 1907, 91, 671-677. 

H. D. Dakin. The fractional hydrolysis of amygdalinic acid, isoAmygdalin. J. Chem. 
Soc., 1904, 85, 15x2-1520. 

K. Feist. Die Spaliung des Amygdalitis unter dem Einfluss von Emulsin. Arch. Pharm., 
1908,246,206-209. OpHsch ahHve Benzaldehydcyanhydrine. Ibid, 1909, 347, 226- 
232. Zersetzung von Amygdalin. Ibid., 1909, 347, 542-545« Spaltung racemischer 
Cyanhydrine durch Emulsin. Ibid., X910, 248, 101-Z04. 

E. Fischer. Einfluss der Configuration auf die Wirhung der Enzyme. Ber., 1894, 27, 

2985-2993. 

£. Fischer. Ueber ein neues, dem Amygdalin ahnliches Glucosid. Ber., 1895, 28, 1508- 

15". 
G. GiAjA. Sur Visolement d'un sucre biose derivant de Vamygdaline. Compt rend., 1910, 

XS0» 793-796. 
H. HiRissEY. Etude comparee de Vemulsine des amandes et Vemulsine d* Aspergillus niger. 

Bull. Soc. Biol., 1896, 640. 

Johansen. Sur la localisation de Vemulsine dans les amandes. Ann. Sci. Nat. (Bot)* 
1887, 6, 1x8. 

J. LiEBio UND F. Wohler. Die Bildung des Bittermandeldls. Annalen, X837, 23, x-24. 

J. LiEBiQ UND F. Wohler. Sur la formation de Vhuile d* amandes amh^es. Ann. Chim. 
phys., X837, 64, 185-209. 

H. LuDwiQ. Eigenthiimliche Ffianzensioffe Jahresbericht, X856, 679. 

RoBiQUBT ET BouTRON. hes Amandes ameres et Vhuile volatile qu*elles fournissent, 
Ann. Chim. phys., X830, 44, 352-382. 

L. RosENTHALBR. Amygdalin. Arch. Pharm., 1908, 245, 684-685. Die Spaltung des 

Amygdalins unter dem Einfluss von Emulsin. Ibid., X908, 246, 365-366, 710; X910, 

248, 105-112, 534-535. 
H, ScHiFF. Die Constitution des Amygdalins und der Amygdalinsaure. Annalen, X870, 

154. 337-353. 
THOifi. Ueber das Vorhommen des Amygdalins und des Emulsins in den bittern Mandeln. 

Bot. Zeit., 1865, 240. 

Thomson and Richardson. Ueber die Zersetzung des Amygdalins durch Emulsin. Ann. 
de Phann., X839, 29* x8o. 

F. TuTiN. isoAmygdalin and the resolution of its hepta-iuetyl derivative. J. Chem. Soc., 

X909f 95> 663-668. 
J. W. Walker. The catalytic racemisation of amygdaUn. J. Chem. Soc., 1903, 83, 
472-479. 

J. W. Walker and V. K. Kribblb. The hydrolysis of amygdalin by acids. J. Chem. 

Soc, X909, 9S X369-1377. 
J. W. Walker and V. K. Krieble. The amygdaUns. J. Chem. Soc., X909, 95, 1437- 

X449. 



163 1 1 * 



REFERENCES TO CYANOPHORIC GLUCOSIDES. 

G. Bertrano. La viciamne^ nouveau glucoside cyanhydrique contenu dans Us graines de 
Vescs. Compt. rend., 1906, 143, 832-834. 

G. Bertrand bt L. Riokind. La rSpartiHon de la tncianine et di sa diastase dans les 
graines de LSgumineuses, Compt. rend., 1906, 143, 970. 

G. Bertrand und G. Weisweiller. La constitution de la Vidamne, Compt. rend., 

1908, X47, 252-254. 
Em. Bourqublot bt Em. Danjou. Sur la samhunigfine^ glucoside cyanhydrique 

nouveau retirS des feuilles du sureau noir, Compt rend., 1905, Z4Z, 59-6z; 

598-600. 
W. R. Dunstan and T. a. Hbnry. Chemical aspects of cyanogenesis in plants, Brit. 

Assoc, Report, York, 1906, 145-157. 
W. R. Dunstan and T. A. Henry. The nature and origin of the poison of Lotus 

Arabicus. Proc. Roy. Soc., 1900, 67, 224 ; 1901, 68, 374-378. Phil. Trans. Roy. 

Soc, 1901, Z94 B, 515-533. 
W. R. Dunstan and T. R. Henry. Cyanogenesis in plants. H. The great millet^ 

Sorghum vulgare. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc., 1902, Z99 A, 399-4Zo. 

W. R. Dunstan and T. A. Henry. III. Phaseolunatin, the cyanogenetic glucoside of 
phaseolus lunatus. Proc. Roy. Soc., 1903, 72, 285-294. 

W. R. Dunstan, T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. Cyanogenesis. IV. Occurrence of 
phaseolunatin in common flax, V. Occurrence of phaseolunaiin in ceusava, Proc. 
Roy. Soc., 1906, 78 B, 145-158. 

W. R. Dunstan, T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. Cyanogenesis, VI. Phaseolunatin 
and the associated enzymes in flax, ccusava and the lima bean, Proc. Roy. Soc., 
1907, 79 B, 315-322. 

T. H. Eastbrfield and B. C. Aston. Corynocarpin, a glucoside occurring in the kernels of 
the Karaka fruit, Proc. Chem. Soc., 1903, 19, 191. 

M. Greshopf. The distribution of prussic acid injhe vegetable kingdom. Report Brit. 
Assoc, Z906, Z38-Z44. 

L. GuiGNARD. Sur la localisation dans les piantes des principes qui foumissent Vadde 
cyanhydrique, Compt rend., 1890, ZZO, 477. 

L. GuiONARD. Sur la localisation dans les amandes et le lauriercerise des principes qui 
fournissent Vacide cyanhydrique. Journal de Botanique, Z890, 4, 3. 

L. GuiQNARD. Sur Vexistence dans le sureau noir d'un compose fournissent de Vacide 
cyanhydrique, Compt. rend., Z905, Z4Z, z6-2o, 448-452. 

L. GuiONARD. Sur la metamorphose des glucosides cyanhydriques pendant la germination, 
Compt. rend., Z908, Z47, Z023-Z038. 

L. GuiONARD ET J. HoNDAS. Sur la nature du glucoside cyanhydrique du sureau noir, 
Compt. rend., 1905, Z4Z, 236-238. 

L. GuiONARD. La formation et les variations quantitative du prindpe cyanhydrique du 
sureau noir, Compt rend., Z905, Z4Z1 ZZ93-120Z. 

L. GuiONARD. Nouveaux exemples de RosacSes d acide cyanhydrique, Compt. rend., 

1906, 14s, 451-458. 
L, GuiONARD. La metamorphose des glucosides cyanhydriques pendant la germination, 

Compt rend., Z908, Z47, Z023-1038. 

H. Herissey. La Prulaurasinef glucoside cyanhydrique cristallise, retire des feuUles 
de Laurier-cerise, Compt. rend., Z905, Z4Z, 959-96Z. 

H. H^rissby. Das Prulaurasin, das Blausdure liefemde Glycosid der Bldtter von Prunus 
laurocerasus. Arch. Pharm., Z907, 345, 463-468, 473-474. 

H. Herissey. VBxistence de la " Prulaurasin '* dans le Cotoneaster microphylla WalL 
J. pharm. Chim., 1906, [vi], 34, 537-539- 

164 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 165 

H. H^RissBY UND Em. Bourquelot. Die Isomerie bei den Blausaurg liefgmden 
Glykosiden Sambunigrin und Prulaurasin, Arch. Pharm., 1907, 245, 474-480. 

H. Herissey. Das Vorkommen von Amygdonitrilglykosid in Cerasus Padus Delarb, 
Arch. Pharm., 1907, 345, 64X-644. 

A. W. K. DB Jong. La decomposition de la gynocardine par VenMynu d$s feuilles d$ 
pangium edule. Rec. trav. Chim., 19x1, 50> 220-221. 

A. JoRissEN. Recherches sur la formation de Vacide cyanhydrique. Bull. Acad. Roy. 
Belg., 1910, 224-233. 

JoRissBN ET Hairs. La linamarine^ nouveau glucoside fournissent de Vacide cyan- 
hydrique par dedoublement. Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg., 1891, 2Z, 529. 

C. W. MooRE AND F. TuTiN. Note on Gynocardin and gynocardase. Trans. Chem. Soc, 
1910, 97, 1285-1289. 

F. B. Power and F. H. Lees. Gynocardin, a new cyanogenetic glucoside, J. Chem. 
Soc, 1905, 87, 349-357- 

F. B. Power and C. W. Moore. The constituents of the bark of Prunus serotina. Isola- 
tion of l-mandelonitrile glucoside, J. Chem. Soc, Z909, 95, 243-261. 

C. Ravenna b M. Tonegutti. Alcune osservazioni sulla presenza dell* acido danidrico 
libero nelle piante, Atti. R. Accad. Lincei., 1909, [v], 19, ii., 19-25. 

C. Ravenna b M. Zamorani. Sulla formazione del V addo cianidrico nella germinazione 
dei senH, Ibid., 356^ 361. 

Trbub. Sur la localisation, le transport et le rdle de Vacide cyanhydrique dans le Pangium 
edule, Ann. du Jardin. hot. de Buitenzorg, 1895, Z3t '• 



REFERENCES TO INDICAN. 

C. Bergthbil. The fermentation of the indigo-plant, J. Chem. Soc, 1904, 85, 870-892. 

W. Bbyerinck. On the formation of indigo from the wood (Isatis tinctoria). Proc. K. 
Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 2, 120-129. 

W. Bbyerinck. Further researches on the formation of indigo from the wood (Isatis 
tinctoria), Proc K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 3, 101-116. 

J. J. Hazewinkbl. Indican — its hydrolysis and the enzyme causing the same, Proc. K. 
Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 2, 512-520. 

S. Hoogbwerfp bt H. tbr Meulbn. Indican. Proc K. Akad. Wetensch., Amster- 
dam, 1900, 2, 520. 

S. Hoogewerfp et H. tbr Meulen. Contribution a la connaissance de Vindican, Rec. 
trav. Chim., 1900, 19, 166-172. 

H. TBR Meulbn. Recherches experimentales sur la nature de quelques glucosides 
[Indican], Rec. trav. Chim., 1905, 24, 444. 

A. G. Pbrkin and W. P. Bloxam. Indican, Part I. J. Chem. Soc, 1907, 91, 
1715-1728. 

A. G. Pbrkin and F. Thomas. Indican, II. J. Chem. Soc, 1909, 95, 793-807. 

P. VAN RoMBURO. On the formation of indigo from indigoferas and from Marsdenia 
tinctoria. Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., ^nsterdam, 1900, 2, 344-348. 

F. Thomas, W. P; Bloxam and A. G. Pbrkin. Indican, III. J. Chem. Soc, 1909, 95, 
824-847. 



REFERENCES TO GLUCOSIDE SYNTHESIS. 

G. CiAMiciAN BT C. Ravenna. Sintesi della salicina per mezzo delle piante. Atti. R. 
Accad. Lincei, xgog, [v], z8, i., 419-422. 

G. CiAMiciAN £T C. Ravenna. Sulla formazione dei glucasidi per mezzo delle piante, 
Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, 1909, [v], zo, ii., 594-596. 

G. L. CIAMICIAN BT C. Ravenna. Sul coniegno dell* aUool henziUcolfielle piante. Atti. 
R. Accad. Lined, 191 1, [v], 20, i., 392-394. 

A. CoLLBY. Action des HaUndes lihres et de quelques Chlorures sur la Glucose. Ann. 

Chim. phys., 1870, [iv], 21, 363-377' 
R. Drouin. Reactions et la composition de thymolglucoside et de Va-naphtholglucoside* 

Bull. Soc Chim., 1895, [iii], 13, 5. 

£. Fischer und £. F. Armstrong. Synthese der Glucoside^ I., II., III. Ber., 1901, 54» 

2885-2900; 1902, 35, 833-843; 3153-3155- 
£. Fischer und K. Delbruck. Thiophenolglucoside, Ber., 1909, 42, 1476-1482. 
£. Fischer und H. Fischer. Zwei neue Glucoside, Ber., 1910, 43, 2521-2536. 
E. Fischer und B. Helferich. Neue syntheHscke Glucoside, Annalen, 19x1, 3B3, 68-9i» 

E. Fischer und K. Raske. Synthese einiger Glucoside, Ber., 1909, 42, 1465-1476. 

H. Hildebrandt. Borneolglucosid, Biochem. Zeitsch., 1909, 2Z, z. 

J. C. Irvine and R. £. Rose. Constitution ofsalicin. Synthesis of pentamethyl salicin^ 
J. Chem. Soc., 1906, 89, 8x4-822. 

F. Mauthner. Die Synthese der Glucosyringasdure, J. prakt. Chem., 1910, 82, 271-274. 

F. Mauthner. Synthese der Glucovanillinsaure und der Gluco-p-oxyhenzoesdure, J. 
prakt. Chem., 1910, [ii], 82, 271 ; 19x1, 83, 556-560. 

A. Michael. Synthesis of helicin and phenolglucoside, Amer. Chem. J., X879, z» 

305-312. 
A. Michael. Synthetical researches in the glucoside group^ II. Amer. Chem. 'J., 1883, 5^ 

17X-182. 

A. Michael. Synthetical researches in the glucoside groups III. Amer. Chem. J., 1884, 

6, 336-340- 
A. Michael. Die Synthese des MethylarhuHns, Ber., i88x, 14, 2097-2102. 
H. Ryan. Synthetical preparation of glucosides. J. Chem. Soc., 1899, 75, X054-X057. 
H. Ryan and W. S. Mills. Preparation of synthetical glucosides. J. Chem. Soc, i9oi» 

79, 704-707. 
H. Ryan and G. Ebrill. Synthesis of glucosides. Some derivatives of arabinose.. 

Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., 1903, 24, 379-386. 

H. Ryan and G. Ebrill. Synthesis of glucosides. Some derivatives of xylose, Sd. 
Proc. Roy. Dubl. Soc., X908, zz, 247-252. 

H. Ryan and W. S. Mills. Preparation of synthetical glucosides, J. Chem. Soc., 190Z, 

79, 704-707. 
P. Schutzbnbbrqbr. Synthese von Glucosiden mittelst der Acetylderivate der Zucker^ 

arten, Annalen der Pharmacie, 1871, z60t 95''X00. 



166 



REFERENCES TO THE FUNCTION OF CARBOHYDRATES AND 

GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS. 

H. E. AND E. F. Armstrong. Function of hormones in stimulating euMymic change in 
relation to narcosis and the phenomena of degenerative and regenerative change in 
living structures, Proc. Roy. Soc, 1910, 82 B, 588-602. 

H. E. AND E. F. Armstrong. The function of hormones in regulating metabolism. Studies 
on enzyme action^ xiv., Ann. Bot., 1911, 98, 507-519. 

H. E. AND E. F. Armstrong. The differential septa in plants with reference to the 
translocation of nutritive materials, Proc. Roy. Soc., 19 ii, 84 B, 226-229. 

H. E. Armstrong, E. F. Armstrong and E. Horton. Herbage studies^ I. Lotus 
CorniculatuSf a cyanophoric plant, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1912, 84 B, 471-484. 

M. Bridbl. Variations dans la composition de la racine de Gentiane au cours de la 
vegetation d'une annee, J. pharm. Chim., 1911, [vii], 3, 294-305. 

R. Chodat. Nouvelles recherches sur les ferments oxydant, IV. et V. Arch. Sci. phys. 
nat., 1912, 33, 70-95, 225-248. 

R. CooMBES. Du rdle de Voxyghie dans la formation et la destruction des pigments 
rouges anthocyaniques ches les vigetaux. Compt. rend., 1910, 150, Z186-1189. 

G. Ciamician et C. Ravenna. Sul contegno di alcune sootanxe organiche nei vegetali, 
Gazetta, 1908, 38, i., 682-697. Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, 1909, z8, i., 4x9-422. 

W. R. DuNSTAN and T. a. Henry. The nature and origin of the poison of Lotus Arabicus, 

Proc. Roy. Soc., 1900, 67, 224 ; 1901, 68, 374-378. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc., 1901. 

I9i B, 515-533. 
L. GuiGNARD. Sur la localisation des principes actifs des crucifhres, Compt rend., 1890, 

zzz, 249 ; 920. 
L. GuiGNARD. Sur quelques proprietes chimiques de la myrosine. Bull. Soc. Bot., 1894, 

Z, 418. 

L. GuiGNARD. Influence de Vandihesie et du gel sur le dedoublement de certains glucosides 
cheM les plantes, Compt. rend., 1909, Z49, 91-93. 

Jadin. Localisation de la myrosine et de la gomme chez les moringa, Compt. rend., 1900, 

130. 733. 
H. A. D. JowBTT AND C. E. PoTTER. Variations in the occurrence of salicin and salinigrin 

in different willow and poplar barks, Pharm. J., 1902, August 16. 

F. Keeblb and E. F. Armstrong. The distribution of oxydases in plants and their rdle 
in the formation of pigments, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1912, 85 B, 214-2x8. 

C. Lefebvrb. Anwendung der biochemischen Methode zum Nachweis der Zuckerarten 
und der Glykoside in den Pflanzen der Familie der Tcueinen, Arch. Pharm., 1907, 
245, 493-502. J. pharm. C;him., 1907, a6, 241-254. 

H. ter Meulen. Sur quelques glucosides contenant des sinh>ols, Rec. trav. Chim., 
1900, Z9, 37-45. 

M. MiRANDB. Influence exercee par certaines vapeurs sur la cyanogenise vegitcUe, ProcidS 
rapidepour la recherche des plantes d CLcide cyanhydrique, Compt rend., 1909, Z49, 
X40-142. 

E. Overton. Auftrelen von rothem Zellsaft bei Pflanzen, Prings. Jahr. f. wise., Bot^ 
1899, vol. 33. 

W. Palladin. Bildun^ der verschiedenen Atmungsenzyme in Abhdngigkeii von dem 
-Entwicklungs-stadium der Pflanzen. Ber. bot Ges., 1906, 2^ 97*107. Die Arbeit der 
^ Atmungsenzyme der Pflanzen unter Verschiedenen Verhdltntssen, Zeitsdi. physiol. 
Chem., 1906, 47, 406-451. 

W. Palladin. Die Verbreitung der Atmungschromogene bei den Pflanzen. Ber. Bot Ges., 
Z908, 26ft, 37^389* 

167 



i68 CARBOHYDRATES 

W. Palladin. Ueber die Wirkung von Giften auf die Atmung lebender und ahgetoteUr 
Pflanzen sowie auf Atmungsenzyme. Jahrbucher Wiss. Botanik, xgxo, 47, 431-461. 

W. SiQMUND. Ueher salicinspaltende und arbutinspaltende Enzyme, Monatsh., zgogi 

» 77-87. 
W. SiOMUND. Ueher ein dskulinspaliendes Enzym und ueher ein fettspaltendes Enzyni in 

Aesculus Hippoccutanum, L. Monatsh., 1910, 32, 657-670. 

A. E. Vinson. The endo- and ecto-invertase of the date, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., igo8, 
30, 1005-1020 ; igzo, 32, 2o8. 

O. Walthbr. Zur Prage der Indigo Bildung, Ber. Deut. bot Ges., 1909, 27, 106-zio. 

Marshall Ward and Dunlop. On some points in the histology and physiology of the 
fruits and seeds in Rhamnus. Ann. of Botany, 1887, z, z. 

Th. Wbbvbrs. Die physiologische Bedeutung einiger Glykoside, Proc. K. Akad. 
Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1909, Z3, z93-2oz. 

M. Whbldale. Plant oxydases and the chemical inter-relationships of colour-varieties. 

Prog. Rd. Bot„ Z910, 3, 457-474- 
M. Whbldalb. On the formation of anthocyanin, J. of Genetics, 19XZ, z, Z33-Z58. 
M. Whbldale. The chemical differentiation of species, Biochem. J., Z9XI, 5, 445-456. 



REFERENCES TO RIPENING OF FRUITS. 

E. M. Bailey. Studies on the Banana, J. Biol. Chem., Z906, z» 355-36Z. 

C. Gerber. Recherches sur la maturation des fruits chamus, Ann. Sc. Nat Bot., Z896, 
[viii], 4, z-279. 

H. C. Prinsbn Gberlios. Rapid changes in some tropical fruits during their ripening, 
Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, Z908, zi, 74-84. 

W. Kblhofbr. Distribution of sugar, acid and tannin in apples, Chem. Soc. Abstr., 
Z909, iu, ZO47. 

F. E. Lloyd. Ueher den Zusammenhang zwischen Gerbstoff und einem anderen Kolloid 

in reifenden Pruchten, insbesondere von Phdnix, Achras und Diospyros, Zeitsch. 
Chem. Ind. CoUoide, zgzz, 9, 65-73. 

R. Otto und W. D. Kooper. Beitrage zur Kenntnis des " Nachreifens " von Pruchten, 
Zeitsch. Nahr. Genussm., Z9Z0, Z9, xo. 

F. ScuRTi AND G. De Plato. The chemical processes of ripening. The ripening of 

oranges, Chem. Soc Abstr., 1909, ii., Z74, from Staz. sperim. agrar. ital., 190S, 41, 

435-455. 

G. Tallarico. The hydrolytic and catalytic ferments acting during the process of ripen- 

ing of fruit, Chem. Soc. Abstr., Z908, ii., 724. 
K, Yoshimura. Beitrage zur Kenntnis der Banane, Zeitsch. Nahr. Genussm., Z9zz, 2Z» 
406-4ZZ. 



INDEX. 



ACETOCHLOROOLUCOSB, XZ, 12, 21, 77, Z23. 

Acetonecyanohydrin-o-glucoside, X2z, Z28. 

Acetcmitro-glucose, zz. 

Acids— relative invertive power of, 85. 

Acrose, 89. 

Adonitol, 57. 

Aesculin, zzz. 

Alcohols— table of carbohydrate, 58. 

Aldohexoses, 24-27. 

— rotatory power, 27. 

— stereoisomerisin of, 24. 

— table of, 25. 
w^lose, 25. 
Aloinose, 52. 
Altrose, 25. 

Aminomethyl glucoside, 43. 
Amygdalase, ZZ7. 
Amygdalin, zz6-Z2o. 
Amygdonitrile glucoside v. Pninastn. 
Anaesthetics— action of^ on plant growth, 

Z26. 
Anhydroglttcose, Z2. 
Anhydromethyl glucoside, Z2. 
Anthocyanin pigments, Z30. 
Aatipodes-*behaviour towards organisms, 

72- 
Apiin, 56, ZZ2. 

Apiose, 56. 

Arabino-ketose, 9Z. 

Arabinose, 52, 54, ZZ5. 

Arabinose diphenyl hydrazone, 30. 

Arabitol, 82. 

Arbutin, zog. 

Ancnbin, zo6. 

Barbaloin, ZZ5. 

Benzaldehyde cyanohydrin, Z02, zz6. 
Bromomethyl forfdraldehyde from fructose, 
49. 

Cans sugar. See Sucrose. 
Cellobiose, 65. 
Cellose. See Cellobiose. 
Cerebrose, 48. 
Cerebrosides, 48. 
Chinovose, 56. 
Chitin, 42. 
Chitose, 43. 
Clavicepsin, 57. 
Conifenn, zzz» 
Convolvulin, 56. 
Coumarin glucosides, zzz. 
Cyanohydrin synthesis, 37, 38. 
Cyanophorxc glucosides, Z2z. 



Degradation of glucose, 38, 39. 

Dhurrin, Z2z. 

Dibromotriacetyl glucose, Z2. 

Digitalin, ZZ4. 

Digitalis glucosides, ZZ4. 

Digitalose, 56, ZZ4. 

Digitonin, ZZ4. 

Digitoxin, ZZ4. 

Digitoxose, 56, ZZ4. 

Dioxyacetone, 76. 

DiphenylmeUiane dimethyl-dihydrasine, 30. 

Disaccharides, 59. 

Disaocharides, synthesis of, 97-X03. 

Dulcitol, 33, 57, 82. 

Emulsin, 65, 67, 77, zoo, zz8. 
Enolic form : — 

of galactose, 75. 

of glucose, 40, 73, 74. 
Enzymes :— 

attachment of, to carbohydrate, 79, 80. 

balance and carbohydrates, Z30-Z3Z. 

gluoosidoclastic, zo8. 

nomenclature, 77. 

synthetic action, 65, 99-Z03. 
Erythritol, 57, 82. 
Euxanthic acid, 36. 

Fbrmbntation, 73. 

— intermediate products of^ 76. 
Formaldehyde, 93. 

— photosynthesis, 92-93. 
Formose, 89, 9Z. 
Fraxin, zzz. 
Fructosazine, 43. 
Fructose, 26, 40, 48, 49, Z05. 

— methyl phenylosazone, 49. 

— mono- and di-acetones, 50. 
^ synthesis, 9Z. 

Fucose, 66. 
Fustin, ZZ2. 

Galactoarabinosb, 67. 
Galactose, 47, 53, Z05. 

— conversion into glucose, 8z. 

— fermentation, 75. 

— methyl-jphenyl hydrazones, 30. 

— synthesis, 9z. 
Galactosido-glucose, 97. 
Qaultherin, zzz. 
Gentianose, 70. 
Gentiobiose, 65. 
Gentiopicrin, Z28. 
Gluconic add, 34, 75, 82. 

169 



I70 



CARBOHYDRATES 



Gluconic acid, converuon into mannonic add, 

35. Qo- 
Glucosamine, 42, 43. 

Glucose : — 

Anilides, 14, 15. 

Behaviour towards alludi, 28, 40, 41. 

Constitution, 3. 

Dimethylacetal, 22. 

Electrolysis of, 28. 

Ethylmercaptal, 22. 

Fermentation, 73. 

Formula, 4, 5, 6. 

Guanidine compounds, 41. 

Hydrate, 19. 

Hydrazones, 14, 15. 

Hydrolysis by enxymes, control of, by 
glucose, 78, 79. 

Isomeric forms, 17-19, 26. 

Osazone, 32. 

Osone, 32, 33, 67, 75. 

Oximes, 14, 15. 

Pentacetates, 10, 21. 

Phenylhydrazone, 15, 29. 

Pbenylosacone, 31. 

Synthesis, 91. 
Glucosides : — 

Antiseptic action, 127. 

Formula, X04. 

Significance, 125-129. 

Synthesis, 123, 124. 

Table, 107, 108. 
Glucosido-galactose, 97. 
Glucovanillin, xxx. 
Glucuronic add, 35, 3^* 
Glutose, 40. 

Glycerol glucoside, synthesis of, 102. 
Glycerose, 89. 
Gossypitrin, IX2. 
Guanosin, 52. 
Gynocardase, X2X. 
Gynocardin, X2X. 

Hblxcin, x8o. 
Hexose phosphate, 44, 74. 
Hormones, 127. 
Hydrazones, 30. 
Hydrolysis :— 

control of, by glucose, 78, 79. 

of glucosides, 85, 86. 

rdative rate of; by adds, 85, 86. 
Hydroxy ilavone glucosides, XX2. 

Idxtol, 57. 

Incarnatrin, xx2. * 

Indican, 113. 

Indimulsin, 1x3. 

Interconversion of glucose, mannose, fruc- 
tose, 40. 

Invertase, 62, 65, 67, 68, 70, 71, 80, 83, 96, 
106. 
— presence of carbohydrates in, 80. 

Isoamygdalin, X20. 

Isodulcitol, 55. 

Isoglucosamine, 43. 

Isolactose, 67, 99. 

Isomaltose, 65, 99-xoo. 

Isomeric change o Tj /J-glucose, 20-23. 



Isoquercitrin, XX2. 
Isotrehalose, 98. 

Lactass, 67, 8x, 96. 

Lactones, optical rotatory power, 34. 

Lactose, 66, 85. 

Laevulinic acid, 49. 

Laevulose. See Fructose. 

Laurocerasin, 1x9. 

Limettin, xxi. 

Linamarin, X2x. 

Lotase, X22. 

Lotusin, 122, 128. 

Lupeose «. Stachyoie. 

Lyxose, 54. 

Maltass, 8, 64, 65, 67, 68, 77, 97, 99* 
Maltose, 63, 64, 85, 97. 
Mandelonitrile glucosides, 1x6. 

— V. Prunasin. 

Mannitol, 33. 47, 49. 57. ^7. 82, 90- 
Mannononose, 76. 
Mannotetrose o. Stacfayose. 
Mannotriose, 69. 
Mannose, 26, 47, X05. 
Mass action equation, 84. 
Melibiase, 67. 
Melibiose, 67, 68, 98. 
Melidtose, 70. 
Melitose. See Raffinose. 
Mditriose. See Raffinose. 
Metabolism of glucose, 23. 
Methyl arbutin, 109, 123. 

— fructoside, 49, 62. 

— galactoside, 47, 78, 8x. 

— glucoses, 13, X4. 

— glucosides, 7-9, 17, 22^ 77, 85, 86.. 

action of ensymes on, 8, 77. 

formulae, 9. 

— glyoxaline from carbohydrates, 4X. 

— maltoside, 64. 

— mannoside, 77. 

— pentoses, 55, 56. 

— xyloside, 78. 

Milk sugar. See Lactose. 
Monosaccharides : — 

List of, 25, 46. 

Synthesis, 89-9X. 
Mucic acid, 35. 
Mustard oil glucosides, X14. 
Mutarotation, x6-20. 
Myrosin, xo8, XX4. 

NOMBNCLATURB, 24, 25, 26, 77. 
OCTITOL, 58. 

Oxonium compounds, 20-23. 



Pentosans, 52, 53. 
Pentoses, 52-54, 78. 
Perseitol, 47, 57, 82. 
Phaseolunatin, X2x. 
Phenyl hydrazones, 15, 29, 30. 

— osazones, 30. 

of disaccharides, 60. 

Phloridzin, xio. 
Photosynthesis, 92-96. 



INDEX 



171 



Populin, no.' 

Pnilaurasin, Z19. 

Flrunase, iz8. 

Prunasiiii ii6-iao. 

Pyrazine derivative from glucosamine, 43. 

QUSRCIMBRITRIN, IZ2. 

Quercitrin, 112. 

Rapfinose, 48, 70. 
Respiration in plants, 129. 
Respiratory chromogens, 129. 
Revertose, 65, 99. 
Rhamnase, 108. 
Rhamninase, 69. 
Rhamninose, 69, 106. 
Rhamnose, 55, X05. 
Rhodeose, 56. 
Ribose, 25, 52, 115. 
Ripening of fleshy fruits, Z38-Z33. 
Robinin, xz2. 
Rutin, IZ3. 

Saccharic acid, 35. 
Salicin, 85, zo6, Z07, zzo, Z28. 
— synthesis o^ zoz, Z03. 
Salinigrin, zzz. 
Sambunigrin, ZZ9. 
Scopolin, zzz. 
Serotin, ZZ3. 
Sinalbin, ZZ5. 
Sinigrin, ZZ4. 
Sldmmin, zzz. 
Sorbitol, 33, 57, 82, 83. 
Sorbose, 5Z, 82, 96. 



Stachyose, 7Z. 
Stereo-isomerides, 4. 
Strophantobiose, 68. 
Sucrose, 6z, 62, 97. 

— formula, 62, 87. 
Synthesis of hexoses : — 

Dulcitol series, 5z, 90. 
Mannitol series, 89-9Z. 
Syringin, zzz, ZZ5. 

Taoatosb, 47, 75, 90. 
Talose, 47, 80. 
Tannins, 45, Z29. 
Taxicatin, 106, Z28. 
Tetra-acetyl glucose, Z3. 
Tetramethyl glucoses, Z3. 

— methyl glucosides, 22, 80. 
Tetra-saccharides, 71. 
Tetroses, 53. 

Thiophenol glucoside, Z23. 

— Lactoside, Z23. 
Trehalase, 63. 
Trehalose, 63. 
Trioses, 53, 76. 
Trisaccharides, 60, 69-7Z. 
Turanose, 68. 

Vbrnin, 52, ZZ5. 
Vicianase, Z22. 
Vicianin, Z22. 
Vidanose, 68, Z22. 
Volemitol, 57. 

Xanthorhamnin, 69, Z06, ZX3. 
Xylose, 52, 54, 82. 



abbrobbn: the university press 



»-•» 



LANE MEDICAL LIBRARY 



» * 



To avoid fine, this book should be returned 
on or before the date last stamped below. 



DEC ?aj5'i|«p 
C161 6\^^^ 

iVOV 4 fl15 
APR 18 M 

WAR 14 IS o 



' > 



I * « 

t 3 ij 




SCT7-1W 






1 n^ '^ 
I 1 . s> 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



j)(t2)is^uyMfe)y 




mmmmnmm 





i^ )}v" 



D)(©. 











I ) 



)] 






eg ^^3 




i 



[ 



I 

1 1 



f4 



I 



, -i ■ * )" /',• 'J- 









/ 



•V • /»" 



1 



MONOGRAPHS OF INORGANIC AND PHYSICAL 

CHEMISTRY. 

Edited by Alexander Findlay, M.A., D.Sc, F.I.C. 

8vo. 



PER-ACIDS AND THEIR SALTS. By T. Slater Price, D.Sc, Ph.D., 

F.I.C, of the Municipal Technical School, Birmingham. 

OSMOTIC PRESSURE. By Alexander Findlay, M.A., D.Sc., F.I.C, 

Professor of Chemistry and Director of the Edward Davies Chemical Laboratories, 
University College of Wales, Aberystwyth ; Editor of the Series. 



INTERMETALLIC COMPOUNDS. By Cecil H. Desch, D.Sc, Ph.D., 
F.I.C, Graham Young Lecturer in Metallurgical Chemistry in the University of 
Glasgow. With 17 Diagrams. 



THE VISCOSITY OF LIQUIDS. By Albert Ernest Dunstan, 

D.Sc. (Lond.), Head of the Chemical Department, East Ham Technical College, and 
Fbrdinand Bernard Tholb, D.Sc. (Lend.), Lecturer on Organic Chemistry, East 
Ham Technical College. With Diagrams. 



MOLECULAR ASSOCIATION. By W. E. S. Turner, D.Sc, M.Sc, 
Lecturer in Physical and Inorganic Chemistry in the University of Sheffield. With 
6 Figures. 

THE MOLECULAR VOLUMES OF LIQUID CHEMICAL COM- 

POUNDS, from the point of view of Kopp. By Gervaise Lb Bas, B.Sc. (Lond.). 
With Diagrams. 

THE METALS OF THE RARE EARTHS. By James Frederick 

Spbncbr, B.Sc. (Vict.), D.Sc. (Liverpool), F.I.C, Lecturer in Physical and Inorganic 
Chemintry at Bedford College (University of London). With Diagrams. 



LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO., 

/ LONDON, NBW YORK, 30MBAY, CALCUTTA, AND MADRAS. 



r 



TEXT.BOOKS OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY^ 

Edited by Sir William Ramsay, K.C.B., D.Sc, F.R.S. 
STOICHIOMETRY. By Sydney Young, D.Sc., F.R.S., Professor of 

Chemistry in the University of Dublin. 

CHEMICAL STATICS AND DYNAMICS, including the Theories of 
Chemical Change, Catalysis and Explosions. By J. W. Mellor, D.Sc, B.Sc. 

THE PHASE RULE AND ITS APPLICATIONS. By Alex. Findlay, 
M.A., D.Sc, F.I.C., Professor of Chemistry and Director of the Edward Davies 
Chemical Laboratories, University College of Wales. With 134 Figures in the Text 

SPECTROSCOPY. By E. C. C. Baly, F.I.C, Grant Professor of Inorganic 
Chemistry in the University of Liverpool. With 180 Illustrations. 

THERMOCHEMISTRY. By Julius Thomsen, Emeritus Professor of 

Chemistry in the University of Copenhagen. Translated by Katharine A. Burkb, 
B.Sc. (Lond.), Assistant in the Dep^irtment of Chemistry, University College, London. 

STEREOCHEMISTRY. By Alfred W. Stewart, D.Sc, Lecturer on 

Physical Chemistry and Radio-Activity in the University of Glasgow. With 87 Illus- 
trations. 

ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY. Part I. General Theory. By R. A. Leh- 

PBLDT, D.Sc, Professor of Physics at the Transvaal University College, Johannesburg. 
Including a Chapter on the Relation of Chemical Constitution to Conductivity. By 
T. S. MooRB, B.A., B.Sc, Fellow and Lecturer of Magdalen College, Oxford. 

THE THEORY OF VALENCY. By J. Newion Friend, D.Sc, Ph.D., 
F.I.C, Carnegie Gold Medallist, Headmaster, Victoria Institute Science and 
Technical Schools, Worcester. 

METALLOGRAPHY. By Cecil H. Desch, D.Sc (Lond.), Ph.D. (Wurzb.), 

Graham Young Lecturer in Metallurgical Chemistry in the University of Glasgow. 
With 14 Plates and 108 Diagrams in the Text. 

THE RELATIONS BETWEEN CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION AND 

SOME PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. By Samuel Smilbs, D.Sc. Fellow of Uni- 
versity College, and Assistant Professor of Organic Chemistry at University College, 
London University. 

PHOTOCHEMISTRY. By S. E. Sheppard, D.Sc, formerly 1851 Exhi- 
bition Research Scholar of University College, London. With 27 Illustrations, etc 

A SYSTEM OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY. By William C. McC. 

Lbwis, M.A. (R.U.I.), D.Sc. (Liv.), Brunner Professor of Physical Chemistry in the 
University of Liverpool. With Diagrams. 3 vols. Vol. I. Kinetic Theory, VoL H, 
Thermodynamics. Vol. III. Quantum Theory. 



LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO., 

LONDON, NBW YORK, BOMBAY, CALCUTTA, AND MADRAS, 






MONOGRAPHS ON BIOCHEMISTRY 

EDITED BT 

R. H. A. PLIMMER, D.Sa 

AND 

F. G. HOPKINS. M.A., M.a, D.Sc, F.R.S. 



1 



>i 



MONOGRAPHS ON BIOCHEMISTRY 

Royal 8vo. 

THE NATURE OF ENZYME ACTION. By 
W. M. Bayliss, M.A., D.Sc, F.R.S. 

THE CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION OF THE 
PROTEINS. By R. H. A. Plimmbr, D.Sc. 

Part I. — ^Analysis. 

Part II. — Synthesis, etc. 

THE VEGETABLE PROTEINS. By Thomas B. 

OSBORNB, Ph.D. 

THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND THE 
GLUCOSIDES. By E. Frankland Armstrong, 
D.Sc, Ph.D. >s 

ALCOHOLIC FERMENTATION. By A. Harden, 
Ph.D., D.Sc, F.R.S. 

SOIL CONDITIONS AND PLANT GROWTH. 
By E. J. Russell, D.Sc, F.R.S. 

THE SIMPLER NATURAL BASES. By G. Barger, 
M.A., D.Sc. 

NUCLEIC ACIDS. THEIR CHEMICAL PRO- 
PERTIES AND PHYSIOLOGICAL CON- 
DUCT. By Walter Jones, Ph.D. 

THE RESPIRATORY EXCHANGE OF ANIMALS 
AND MAN. By August Krogh, Ph.D. 

LECITHIN AND ALLIED SUBSTANCES. THE 
LI PINS. By Hugh Maclean, M.D., D.Sc. 



LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO., 

LONDON, NEW YORK, BOMBAY, CALCUTTA, AND MADRAS. 



' 



THE 

SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES 

AND 

THE GLUCOSIDES 



E.' FRANKLAND ARMSTRONG, D.Sc, PrD., F.I.C. 



THIRD SDITION 



LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO. 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 

FOURTH AVENUE k SOth STREET, NEW YORK 

BOMBAY, CALCUTTA, AND MADRAS 

I9I9 



1 



GENERAL PREFACE. 

The subject of Physiological Chemistry, or Biochemistry, is 
enlarging its borders to such an extent at the present time, 
that no single textbook upon the subject, without being 
cumbrous, can adequately deal with it as a whole, so as to 
give both a general and a detailed account of its present 
position. It is, moreover, difficult in the case of the larger 
textbooks to keep abreast of so rapidly growing a science 
by means of new editions, and such volumes are therefore 
issued when much of their contents has become obsolete. 

For this reason an attempt is being made to place this 
branch of science in a more accessible position by issuing 
a series of monographs upon the various chapters of the 
subject, each independent of and yet dependent upon the 
' others, so that from time to time, as new material and 
the demand therefor necessitate, a new edition of each mono- 
graph can be issued without re- issuing the whole series. In 
this way, both the expenses of publication and the expense 
to the purchaser will be diminished, and by a moderate 
outlay it will be possible to obtain a full account of any 
particular subject as nearly current as possible. 

The editors of these monographs have kept two objects 
in view : firstly, that each author should be himself working 
at the subject with which he deals ; and, secondly, that a 
Bibliography, as complete as possible, should be included, 
in order to avoid cross references, which are apt to be 
wrongly cited, and in order that each monograph may yield 
full and independent information of the work which has been 
done upon the subject. 

It has been decided as a general scheme that the volumes 
first issued shall deal with the pure chemistry of physiological 
products and with certain general aspects of the subject. 
Subsequent monographs will be devoted to such questions 
as the chemistry of special tissues and particular aspects of 
metabolism. So the series, if continued, will proceed from 
Physiological Chemistry to what may be now more properly 
termed Chemical Physiology. This will depend upon the 
success which the first series achieves, and upon the divisions 
of the subject which may be of interest at the time. 

R, H. A. P. 
F. G. H. 



3o4835 



PREFACE. 

Twenty-eight years ago the late Sir John Burdon Sanderson 
described one of the aims of Physiology as the acquirement 
of an exact knowledge of the chemical and physical processes . 
of animal life. The recent history of physiological progress 
shows that investigations confined to the study of physical 
and chemical processes have been the most fruitful source of 
physiological advance, and it is principally the exact chemical 
study of the substances found in animals and plants which has 
enabled the physiologist to make this advance. 

The last decade has seen very material progress in our 
knowledge of the carbohydrates, more particularly with regard 
to their inner structure, biochemical properties, and the mechan- 
ism of their metabolism. In consequence, many problems 
of the greatest fascination for the biochemist have presented 
themselves for solution. 

This monograph aims at giving a summary of the present 
position of the chemistry of the carbohydrates. The reader is 
assumed to be already acquainted with the subject so far as 
it is dealt with in the ordinary textbooks. The available 
information is, however, so widely scattered in the various 
scientific periodicals that it is impossible for any one approach- 
ing the subject to inform himself rapidly of what has been done. 
It is to meet such needs that this monograph is primarily 
intended. 

A bibliography is appended, which contains references, ' 
classified under appropriate headings, to most of the recent 1 
works on the subject and to the more important of the older \ 
papers. It makes no claim to be exhaustive but serves to 
indicate how much is at present being done in this field. 

E. F. A. 



VI 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 

Our interest in the carbohydrates has been again aroused by 
the return of Emil Fischer to the subject. He has announced 
his acceptance of the y-oxide formula of glucose which was 
used in the First Edition of the Monograph to explain all the 
properties of this carbohydrate. In continuation of his work 
on the acyl derivatives of glucose he has been able to show the 
probable composition of the tannins : he seems to think that 
compounds of this type may be widely distributed in animals 
and plants and may account for some of the peculiar properties 
of carbohydrates known to biologists. 

It has been found advisable to modify the arrangement of 
Chapter I. The treatment of the rarer carbohydrates has been 
extended and, wherever possible, their relation to enzymes has 
been demonstrated. The chapter on the glucosides has been 
considerably enlarged and a new chapter, dealing with the 
significance of the carbohydrates in plant physiology, has been 
added. The monograph should therefore appeal more generally 
to those interested in the subject from the botanical and agricul- 
tural sides. These problems are some of the most fascinating 
of those now under investigation, and their study must add to 
our conceptions of vital change. 

It is a pleasant duty to express my thanks to Mr. F. W. 
Jackson, B.Sc, A.C.G.I., for his help in the revision of the 
proofs. 

E. F. A. 



vii 



PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION. 

Since the Second Edition of this Monograph was completed 
the chemistry of the carbohydrates has developed on two main 
lines, both of which now receive special recognition. The 
discovery of a third isomeric form of glucose differing from the 
pentaphane ring forms in structure — probably containing a 
three-membered (triphane) ring — opens up ways to much future 
work and in particular has served to elucidate that very vexed 
problem the structure of sucrose. The discovery of this new 
glucose derivative also affords an example of the temporary 
nature of the doctrines of chemical structure : if the arguments 
for the acceptance of what was known as the y-oxide formula of 
glucose had been too rigidly construed there would have been 
no possibility of a third isomeride. Chemical formulae are of 
service so long as they serve to express known facts and 
stimulate further investigation ; they cease to be of value when 
used to give expression to observations with which they are not 
in harmony. We owe the recognition of the new form both to 
Emil Fischer and to J. C. Irvine, particularly to the latter and 
his students. The very patient and brilliant work of Irvine on 
the substituted methyl derivatives of the carbohydrates has done 
much to increase our knowledge of their structure 

The relationship of optical rotatory power to structure in 
the case of the carbohydrates has long been a source of specu- 
lation, but, because of the indifferent manner in which many of 
the carbohydrate derivatives had been characterised, nothing 
definite had been achieved until recently. Owing to the 
painstaking work of Hudson and his school in America, we 
are now in possession of many of the necessary data, and the 



VllI 



PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION ix 

generalisations of this chemist have given a new and niost 
promising aspect to this field. 

Some of the rarer sugars have been made more available, 
thus stimulating inquiry ; indeed, as the methods of investigation 
improve and more attention is paid to the composition of plant 
products, the occurrence of the scarcer sugars is found to be 
far more general than had been anticipated, and it may be 
prophesied that future researches in this direction will be very 
fruitful. In particular much progress has been made in estab- 
lishing the structural formulae of the disaccharides. References 
to new work have been introduced where appropriate. 

Probably in no other branch of chemistry, at all events in 
that of the aliphatic compounds, is so great an opportunity 
afforded for the study in detail of the influence of structure on 
the properties of the molecule. Much has already been done 
in this direction but we are as yet only on the threshold of the 
inquiry. 

During the past few years most chemists in the allied 
countries have had to follow more urgent national calls than 
those of the research laboratory. The British and American 
nations have, however, learnt to appreciate more fully the need 
of scientific research, and it is to be expected that in the near 
future the chemistry of the carbohydrates will be a subject that 
will attract the attention of workers. 

It would have been very difficult for the writer to prepare 
this edition without the great assistance which he has so freely 
received from Dr. T. P. Hilditch. 

E. F. A. 



CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER PAQlt 

Introduction i 

I. Glucose 6 

II. The Chemical Properties ok Glucose and the Hexoses 44 

III. The Hexoses, Pentoses and the Carbohydrate Alcohols 70 

IV. The Disaccharides - 96 

V. The Relation Between Configuration and Properties - 114 

VI, Hydrolysis and Synthesis 129 

VII. The Natural Glucosides 149 

VIII. The Synthetic Glucosides i8c 

IX. The Function of Carbohydrates and Glucosides in 

Plants 187 

Bibliography 20^ 

Index 235 



INTRODUCTION. 

The carbohydrates, together with the proteins, rank first in importance 
among organic compounds on account of the part they play, both in 
plants and animals, as structural elements and in the maintenance of 
/ the functional activity of the organism. 

The interest attaching to the group may be said to centre around 
glucose, this carbohydrate being the first to arise in the plant and the 
unit group from which substances such as cane sugar, maltose, starch 
and cellulose are derived ; it is also of primary importance in animal 
metabolismi, as the main bulk of the carbohydrate in our food materials 
enters into circulation in the form of glucose. 

Under natural conditions the higher carbohydrates are resolved into 
the simpler by the hydrolytic agency of enzymes, but these also exer- 
cise synthetic functions ; the simpler carbohydrates are further resolved 
by processes which are undoubtedly akin to that of ordinary alcoholic 
fermentation. The carbohydrates are, therefore, of primary importance 
as furnishing material for the study of the processes of digestion and 
assimilation. 

The carbohydrates are all remarkable on account of their optical 
characters ; it is possible to correlate these with their structure. Of 
the large number of possible isomeric forms of the gluco-aldohexose, 
CqH^sO^, sixteen in all, of which glucose is one, only three are met 
with in nature, although fourteen have already been prepared by arti- 
ficial means ; this natural limitation of the number produced in the 
plant and utilised by it and by the animal is a fact of great significance 
and clear proof of the manifestation of a selective process at some 
period in the evolution of life. The elucidation of these peculiarities 
invests the inquiry into the nature and functions of the carbohydrates 
with particular interest and significance. 

The simple carbohydrates are all of the empirical composition cor- 
responding with the formula CHgO, the most important being those 
containing five or six atoms of carbon. The members of the sugar 
group are usually distinguished by names having the suffix ose. 

The simplest carbohydrate, CH^O, formaldehyde or formal, is in 

3,11 probability the first product of vital activity in the plant, the carbon 

I 



2 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

dioxide absorbed from the air being converted into this substance by 
the combined influence of sunh'ght and chlorophyll. The conversion 
of formaldehyde into glucose has been accomplished in the laboratory, 
but the transformation takes place in such a way that a variety of pro- 
ducts is obtained which are optically inactive ; there is reason to sup- 
pose that but the single substance dextro-glucose is formed in the plant 
and that this is almost immediately converted into starch ; in other 
words, the vital process is in some way a directed change. The record 
of the synthetic production of glucose and of the discovery of methods 
of producing the isomeric hexoses, as well as of determining the structure 
of the several isomerides, is one of the most fascinating chapters in the 
history of modem organic chemistry. 

A short outline of the ground covered by the complete carbohydrate 
group may be of value to some readers and will be given before the 
subject is developed in detail. 

The numerical relation existing between the proportions of 
"carbon" and of "water" in a carbohydrate molecule, Cj^Hfi^, is 
the basis of general classification. 

The simplest sugars are those in which m and n are equal and 
range in value from 2 upwards ; these are known as monosaccharides^ 
and include such carbohydrates as arabinose, C^Hj^^Og, and glucose, 

The next, more complex, type of carbohydrate may be r^arded, 
for the moment, as derived either from two molecules of a mono- 
saccharide or from two different monosaccharides by elimination of a 
molecule of water, and will have the general formula C^fn(J^%0\^^^ ; 
these are the disaccharides^ of which cane sugar or sucrose is the most 
familiar. 

Similarly, by elimination of two molecules of water from three 
of monosaccharide, or of three molecules of water from four o^ 
monosaccharide, we arrive at the empirical formulae for the tri-^ or the^ 
tetra-saccharides^ which are also found in nature.' 

Important exceptions to this numerical classification are the' 
starches, gums, and celluloses of the general formula (QHjoOg);^ ; these 1 
have, of course, little resemblance to the saccharide group beyond,' 
their empirical composition ; they are of far greater molecular com-u 
plexity than the sugars, and do not fall within the scope of this work. % 

The distinctive feature of saccharides other than the monosac*!' 
charides is their ready conversion into a mixture of the latter com- 
pounds by hydrolytic agency; in other reactions they show the same' 
behaviour as the monosaccharides^ The basis of ^U carbohydrates ii 



INTRODUCTION 3 

thus the class of monosaccharides, which are systematised according 
to the number of carbon atoms they contain. 

In passing it may be said that the simplest member of the series, 
CHjO, formaldehyde, is not a true carbohydrate, since it possesses 
neither the physical characteristics (a sweet syrup or solid material) 
nor the chemical (alcoholic) functions of the rest of the sugars. 

The compound, CH2(0H) . CHO, glycollic aldehyde, however, is a 
sweet-tasting crystalline substance readily soluble in water and posses- 
sing all the general properties of the carbohydrates. The next term of 
the series, Cj,{Hfi\, includes glycerose, CHj(OH). CH(OH) . CHO, 
and dioxyacetone, CH2(OH) . CO . CHgCOH), and here a further dis- 
tinction appears, for glycerose is an aldehyde and dioxyacetone a 
ketone. Moreover, a compound, CH3 . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO, has 
been prepared to which the name methylglycerose is given ; this sub- 
stance possesses the general properties of a sugar, and analogous com- 
pounds such as rhamnose, CH3[CH(OH)]4. CHO, occur in nature. 

The monosaccharides are therefore classified as dioses, trioses, etc, 
by the number of carbon atoms in the molecule, whilst each class may 
be subdivided according as it possesses an aldehydic, ketonic, or 
methyl radicle. So, whilst glucose is an aldohexose, and fructose a 
ketohexose, rhamnose is a methylaldopentose. 

A carbon atom which has four different groups attached to it is 

known as asymmetric. These groups can obviously be written in 

order either clockwise : — 

a 

d b 

e 

or counter clockwise : — 

a 

/ \ 

h d 

\ /^ 

c 

Two different forms of the substance are therefore possible, related 
as object to image, and they are termed stereoisomerides. 

Nearly all the carbohydrates contain asymmetric carbon atoms 
and display optical activity, and the number of possible stereoiso- 
merides is in many cases very large. Of the monosaccharides the 
diose, glycollic aldehyde, contains no asymmetric centres and only 
exists in one form, but in the triose, glyceric aldehyde, there are 
already possibilities of a dextro- and a laevo-rotatory form, with, of 

course, the corresponding racemic compound : — 

I* 

I 

J 

I 



4 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



CH,(OH) 
H . C . OH 
CHO 



and 



CH,(OH) 
HO.C.H 
CHO 

Similarly in the tetroses there are four possible active forms :— 



CHa(OH) 
H.C.OH 
H . C . OH 

CHO 



. CHj(OH) 
H . C . OH 
HO . C . H 
CHO 



CH,(OH) 
HO.C.H 
H . C . OH 
CHO 



CHJOH) 
HO.C.H 
HO.C.H 

CHO 



In general, as van't Hoff has pointed out, the total number of 
active forms of sugars of the same structural formula containing n 
asymmetric carbon atoms is 2\ 

On mild oxidation of the aldehydic group of the aldoses, optically 
active hydroxy-monocarboxylic acids corresponding to each active 
form are produced, but if by further oxidation the terminal priitnary 
alcoholic group is also converted to an acid, or if the original mono- 
saccharide is reduced to a polyhydric alcohol, the number of possible 
forms of the respective dibasic acids or polyhydric alcohols is some- 
what lessened. Thus, referring again to the tetroses, the dibasic acids 
formed by oxidation are : — 

COOH 
H.C.OH 
H.C.OH 

COOH 

Of these, only {S) and (c) are optically active, and are, in fact, the 
d and / forms of tartaric acid, whilst (a) and j^ix Sire identical and re- 
present the " internally compensated " or ^^^j^-tartaric acid So that 
there are only three stereoisomeric dibasic acids (and also tetrahydric 
alcohols) derived from the four tetroses, and of these only twcT are 
optically active. 

Some of the possible stereoisomerides in the simpler aldomono- 
saccharides, with their related dibasic acids or polyhydric alcohols, 
are in number as follows : — 



COOH 


COOH 


COOH 


H . C . OH 


HO . C . H 


HO . C . H 


HO.C.H 


H . C . OH 


HO . C . H 


COOH 


COOH 


COOH 


ib) 


W 


(d) 





Number of 


Number of 


1 

1 

Corresponding Stereoisomeric Alcohols or 

Dibssic Acids. i 


Aldoaes. 


Asymmetric 
Atoms. 


Stereo- 
iBomerides. 








• 








Total No. 


Optically Active. 


Meso-com pounds. 


Diose 


O 


I 


X 


O 


O 


Triosea 


z 


2 


X 


O 


O 


Tetroses . 


> 2 


4 


3 


2 


X 


Pentoses 


''• 3 


8 


4 


2 


2 


Hexoses . 


4 


i6 


lO 


8 


2 


Heptoses . 


5 


32 


i6 


12 


4 



Comparatively few of these sugars are found in nature, but tetroses 
pentoses and all the hexoses except two are now known in activi 



iun<iS' 



INTRODUCTION 5 

forms corresponding to those predicted by stereochemical theory ; 
those not occurring naturally have been produced synthetically, to- 
gether with their reduction and oxidation products, by methods which 
will receive attention later in this monograph. 

It would be impossible within the limits of a brief monograph to 
deal at length with the carbohydrates generally. In the following ac- 
count, glucose will be taken as a typical sugar, and its properties and 
inter-relationships will be considered more particularly with reference 
to their biochemical importance. The disaccharides and glucosides 
will be dealt with in a similar manner. Those who desire fuller in- 
formation should consult the comprehensive works compiled by Lipp- 
mann and by Maquenne. 

In discussing the various problems associated with the carbohydrates, 
the writer will strive to indicate the alternative views which have been 
advanced. He will, however, endeavour to develop the subject as far 
as possible as a logical whole, rather than leave the reader undecided 
at every turn. Such a method of treatment is more likely to stimulate 
inquiry by giving a picture of the present attitude of workers towards 
the various problems which the carbohydrates present. 



'Oses 
tctiv«^ j 



CHAPTER I. 

GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE). 

It has been customary to speak of this sugar as grape sugar to 
distinguish it from cane sugar and on account of its occurrence in the 
juice of the grape and of other ripening fruits in association with fructose 
(laevulose). The two hexoses are probably derived from pre-existent 
cane sugar, as the three sugars are nearly always found together and as 
cane sugar is easily resolved into glucose and fructose by hydrolysis : — 

Ci,H„Ou + H,0 = C,H„Oe + CeH„Oe 
Cane Sugar. Glucose. Fructose. 

Glucose is also formed from other more complex sugars when these 
are broken down by hydrolysis with the assistance of the appropriate 
enzymes or of acids — for example, from milk sugar or lactose, malt 
sugar or maltose, starch and cellulose. It is easily prepared from 
starch by the action of diluted sulphuric acid and is therefore to be 
purchased at small cost. It separates from an aqueous solution with 
a molecule of water of crystallisation, but this is held only loosely, 
as the anhydrous substance maybe crystallised from dilute 'alcohol. 
Unlike cane sugar, it never separates in well-defined clear crystals from 
either water or alcohol, but is usually met with as a crystalline powder. 

Constitution. 

Glucose is represented by the molecular formula C^HijO^. Fivel 
of the six atoms^ of oxygen are to be regarded as present in thi 
alcoholic form, as hydroxyl (OH) ; the sixth under certain condition: 
manifests aldehydic functions. Thus, when acted upon by metallic 
hydroxides, glucose forms compounds which resemble the "alcoho-*! 
lates"; and it is converted by acids, acid anhydrides and chlorides 1 
into ethereal salts or esters such as the following : — * 

CjH^OCNOJb C8H70(0 . CO . CHJb C-H^OCO . CO . CgHj), . 

Glucose pentanitrate. Glucose pentacetate. Glucose pentabenzoate. \ 

On reduction, it takes up two atoms of hydrogen and is converted 
into a hexahydric alcohol ; on oxidation, it yields the monobasic acid 
gluconic acid, C5Hj(OH)5 . CO . OH ; when heated with a concentrate 

6 






GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 7 

solution of hydrogen iodide, it loses the whole of its oxygen and is 
converted into an iodohexane, QHigl, which itself is a derivative of 
normal hexane, CHg . CHj . CHg . CHg . CH^ . CH3. 

On account of the stability of glucose, it is to be assumed that each 
hydroxy! group is associated with a different carbon atom ; as glucose 
is a derivative of normal hexane, the constitutional formula of the 
aldehydic form may be written in the following manner : — 

CHj(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO 

But it was long a matter of remark that glucose, as a rule, is far 
less active than was to be expected, assuming it to be an hydroxyalde- 
hyde. The difficulty was removed when Tollens, in 1883, proposed to 
represent it by a formula in which four of the carbon atoms are included 
in a ring, together with a single oxygen atom. 

If the r^ular tetrahedron be adopted as the model of the carbon 
atom and it be supposed that the four affinities are directed towards 
its four solid angles from the centre of a sphere within which the tetra- 
hedron is inscribed, the direction of the affinities is such (109° 24^) that 
on uniting four such tetrahedra t e gethe f and interposing as representa- 
tive of the oxygen atom a ball with two affinities arranged in about the 
same dire^ions as the two carbon affinities, a closed system or ring is 
formed almost naturally, in which there is no strain, the internal angles 
being practically those in a regular pentagon, thus : — 

H H 

Q Q 

Hv /OH H0\ 
HO' 

o 

. This symbol has been very widely adopted, as it is in general 
accordance with the interactions of glucose. Fischer has stated 
his acceptance of it in preference to the aldehyde formula. It is 
the representation in a plane surface of a solid model of glucose made 
by combining tetrahedra in the conventional manner. The reader is 
advised strongly to construct such a model himself to enable him to 
follow the argument developed in this chapter. The behaviour of 
glucose as an aldehyde is accounted for if it be assumed that, when the 
ring is ruptured by hydrolysis, the closed-chain form passes into an 
aldehydrol and this in turn into the aldehydic form in the following 
manner : — 



yQ^ /CH . CH(OH) . CHj(OH) 




8 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



H OH H OH 

c c 



H OH H OH 



^ 



— C 



\ 



HO 




+ HjO 
CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) 



H 



HO 



> 



/ \ 

C 



CH.CH(OH).CH,(OH) 



H OH H OH 
C — 



H 



HO 



> 



/ 



V 

\ 



HO 
Aldehydrol. 

H OH H OH 

\/ \/ 
C C 



4 



H 



CH . CH(OH) . CH,(OH) 



> 



\ 



+ H,0 
CH . CH{OH) . CH,(OH) 



OH HO 
Aldehydrol. 



HO 
Aldehyde. 



This action bjjing reversible, it is to be supposed that when an 
agent such as phenylhydrazine,^ which will act upon an aldehyde, is 
added to the aqueous solution, the small amount of aldehydrol present 
is attacked and removed; the equilibrium is thereby disturbed, but is 
rapidly restored by the formation of a fresh quantity of the aldehydrol, 
which in turn disappears but only to have its place taken by a further 
Quantity. Ultimately the whole becomes converted into the aldehydic 
derivative. 

On reference to the closed-chain formula of glutose, it will be seen 
that the potentially aldehydic carbon atom (printed in clarendon type), 
as well as the three other carbon atoms in the ring, and also the atom 
which is immediately contiguous to the ring on the right-hand side 
of the formula (page 7), are all asyntmetricy in the sense that each of 
them is associated with four different radicles, or, in other words, a fifth 
asymmetric carbon atom has arisen in this formula. Consequently the 
closed-chain form of glucose may be written in either of two ways^ de- 
pending on the arrangement of the groups around this atom, printed / 
here in clarendon, thus : — 



^ See Chapter II., page 49. It is quite possible that the closed-ring form of glucose 
will interact directly with phenylhydrazine without the butylene oxide ring becoming opened. 
In such case it is unnecessary to assume the presence of any aldehydrol at all in solution. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 

•OH 





IHjOH CH,OH 

•-Glucose. /S-Glucose. 

This conclusion, though in general agreement with the behaviour 
of glucose, does not embrace all the known facts which, as indicated 
on page 1 3, go to show that glucose may react in yet other isomeric 
forms owing to the presence of other cyclic systems containing only 
two or three carbon atoms united with the oxygen atom. 

The two methyl glucosides are to be regarded as the methyl 
derivatives of these two stereoisomeric forms of glucose. 

Nomenclature. 

Carbon Atoms. Alcohols. 

H— C— OH I 

H— C— OH -^^ 2 a Secondary 

3 $ Secondary 

4 7 — 

« 

5 8 Secondary 

6 c Primary 

In order to avoid confusion it is necessary to be clear as to the 
nomenclature adopted. Two systems are in use : the carbon atoms 
may be numbered commencing with the terminal, potentially aldehydic, 
active carbon atom, and the formula is usually written with this 
upwards. Alternatively they may be designated by means of Greek 
prefixes in the manner customary for aliphatic acids so that the carbon 
atom next the potentially aldehydic atom becomes a and carbon 
number 4 is 7. The prefixes a, /8, etc, are also commonly used by 
chemists to distinguish isomerides, the modifications being usually 
named in the order of their discovery. In the sugar group the prefixes 
a and /3 have come to acquire a special meaning as indicating the 
configuration of derivatives attached to carbon i : accordingly, their 
use in the more general sense will be restricted as much as possible. 

It is a characteristic property of y-hydroxyacids to lose water very 
readily, forming ring compounds containing four atoms of carbon and 

f 




\ 



10 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

one of oxygen : these are termed 7-lactones as the 7-carbon atom is 

concerned in their formation. Thus — 

O. 



CH,(OH) . CH2 . CH, . CO,H = H,0 + CH, . CH, . CH, . CO 
T-Hydroxybutyric acid. 7-Butyrolactone. 

Similarly, four carbon-oxygen ring compounds, when derived from 7- 
hydroxy compounds other than acids, are named 7-oxides. The ring is 
termed a pentaphane ring. 

It is, however, preferable again to avoid the use of the Greek pre- 
fix and to denote the character of the ring structure by the terms, 
ethylene, propylene, or butylene oxide instead of as a-, )8- or 7-oxides, 
as was done in the former edition. 

An alternative, advocated by Hudson, is the use of the word " cyclo *' 
with a Greek prefix to show the nature of the ring, e.g. methyl-o-cyclo- 
glucose or methyl-7-cyclo-glucose. Acree has suggested the term 
lactonyl to indicate an aldehyde group that has formed a lactone-like 
ring, and Hudson uses the symbol < to denote this. This symbol is 
useful in expressing the structure of the disaccharides. 

The carbon atom and the attached H and OH radicles are often 
referred to collectively as primary or secondary alcohol groups. 

The prefix ept is used to denote the new carbohydrate formed by 
the interchange of the H and OH groups on the a-carbon atom ; thus 
mannose becomes epiglucose, ribose becomes epiarabinose. The 
change is spoken of as epimerism, and the isomeric pair as epimerides. 

The Methyl Glucosides. 

In considering the structure of glucose, the compounds which 
deserve attention in the first place are the two isomeric methyl gluco- 
sides (a and fi), which are formed by the interaction of glucose and 
methylic alcohol under the influence of hydrogen chloride. These 
compounds are the prototypes of the natural glucosides. They were 
discovered by Emil Fischer in 1893. He prepared them by dis- 
solving glucose in cold methylic alcohol saturated with dry hydrogen 
chloride gas. After several hours, when it had lost all cupric reducing 
power, the mixture was neutralised with lead carbonate. Crystals of 
the a-compound were obtained on concentrating the solution; the 
^-compound was isolated later from the mother liquor, and was first 
obtained crystalline by Van Ekenstein. 

The methyl glucosides differ considerably from glucose, more par- 
ticularly in never behaving as aldehydes ; and their rotatory power il 
solution is the same in a freshly-prepared solution as it is in one whic| 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) ii 

has been kept for some time, which is not the case with glucose. JThey 
are undoubtedly formed by the introduction of methyl, in place of an 
atom of hydrogen, in the hydroxyl group attached to the carbon atom 
which exercises aldehydic functions in the open-chain form of glucose. 
It is to be noted that the introduction of methyl in this position has 
the effect of rendering the ring far more stable than it is in glucose, as 
it is to be supposed that compounds such as phenylhydrazine, and 
oxidising agents such as Fehling's solution, are without action because 
the glucosides do not undergo hydrolysis in solution in the way that 
glucose does. 

The two glucosides are distinguished by the arbitrary prefixes a 
and fi, their physical properties being as follows : — 

Melting-point. Rotatory Power. 
•-Methyl glucoside .... 165** + 157** 

j3-Metliy^gluco8ide .... 104° - 33® 

They are both colourless crystalline substances, the a-isomeride 
crystallising usually in long needles, the )3-isomeride in rectangular 
prisma 

When hydrolysed by acids they yield methyl alcohol and glucose. 
At ordinary temperatures hydrolysis, even by moderately strong mineral 
acids, proceeds but slowly ; and if it be desired to study the cdurse of 
hydrolysis it is advisable to work at elevated temperatures, say 70** to 
80° C. As in other chemical reactions, the hydrolytic power of acids 
towards glucosides increases as the temperature is raised. A conven- 
ient method of experimenting consists in mixing acid and glucoside in 
a closed flask immersed in a thermostat so as to maintain the required 
temperature. Samples of the liquid are withdrawn at stated intervals 
of time, rapidly cooled by immersion in ice water to check hydrolysis, 
and the amount of glucose formed estimated either gravimetrically or 
with the polarimeter. To prevent evaporation it is advisable to add 
a little paraffin wax to the mixture of glucoside and acid. Measure- 
ments made in this way show that a definite fraction of the glucoside 
present is hydrolysed in each unit of time, the course of change follow- 
ing what is known as the logarithmic curve. The jS compound is at- 
tacked more rapidly than the a. This point will be referred to again 
in Chapter VI. 

The methyl glucosides are also hydrolysed by enzymes, but both 
isomerides are not hydrolysed by the same enzyme. In fact, the action 
of enzymes towards the glucosides is specific, and each form requires 
its own particular enzyme: o-methyl glucoside is hydrolysed by 
ttialtase : j8-methyl glucoside by emulsin. The enzymes act at 

/ 



/ 



{ 



A 



12 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

J ordinary temperatures, preferably not aliove 37* C, and are far more 
active as hydrolytic agents than acids. 

Returning to the preparation of the glucosides just . described 
it will be noted that both forms are produced simultaneously, the 
o-isomeride predominating. When solid anhydrous glucose (o-glucose) 
is dissolved in dry methyl alcohol containing dry hydrogen chloride, 
the first change is its rapid conversion into a mixture of a- and ff^ 
glucose in nearly equal parts. Each of these then undergoes etherifi^ 
cation, the primary result being a mixture of a- and /3-methyI gluco- 
sides, in which the latter is slightly in excess. On standing, slow 
conversion of the /3-methyl glucoside into the more stable a-isomeride 
takes place. The equilibrated mixture of the glucosides contains 77 
per cent, of the a- and 23 per cent of the )8-isomeride. If, however, 
the solution be neutralised as soon as etherification is complete and 
before the isomeric changes take place, and the solvent be removed, a 
mixture of the two glucosides in approximately equal quantities is ob- 
tained. These may be separated by fractional crystallisation. 

Such a process is somewhat tedious when fi-methyl glucoside is the 
object of the preparation, and it is more convenient to make use of 
biological methods. On treatment with yeast, which contains the 
enzyme maltase, the a-methyl glucoside is hydrolysed to glucose and 
methyl alcohol, and the glucose is removed by fermentation, so that, 
/8-methyl glucose, which is not attacked by yeast, alone remains, and 
can be isolated and purified. 

When, on the other hand, a-methyl glucoside is desired, the action 
of the acid is allowed to continue until equilibrium is attained, and, 
after crystallisation of some quantity of the a-methyl glucoside, the 
mother liquors are again heated with a little acid. This has the effect 
of causing the )8-glucoside present to be converted into a^lucoside 
until equilibrium is again reached, when 77 per cent, of the total solid 

m 

present is a-glucoside, and in consequence a further quantity of a-glu- 
coside crystallises on removal of the solvent 

Fischer employs an alternative method, which consists in heating 
the alcoholic -glucose solution with very little acid in an autoclave. It 
is th^i not necessary to neutralise before crystallisation of the a-gluco- 
side. • 

Maquenne has prepared /9-methyl glucoside by the action of methyl 
sulphate and sodium hydroxide on glucose dissolved ia water. It is 
stated that the /9-isomeride alone is formed under these conditions, 
but the quantity obtained is not large. 

The two methyl glucosides are regarded as stercoisomeric 7 oi 
butylene oxides, and have the following structural formulae : — 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 13 



CH,0— C— H 


H— C— OCH, 


/\ 


/\ 


HCOH \ 


hcoh\ 


i V 
HOCH / 


1 )o 


HOCH / 


\/ 


\/ 


HC^ 
HCOH 


HC/ 
HCOH 
CHjOH 


CH,OH 


a-Methyl glucoside. 


/9-Methyl glucoside. 



In practically every respect the above formulae may be regarded 
as satisfactory and consistent with the properties of the isomeric gluco- 
sides, their different solubilities, rotations, rates of hydrolysis, and 
their behaviour towards enzymes. Considering the cyclic structures 
possible in glucose it is obvious that the ring forming oxygen can 
occupy other positions than the 7 or butylene oxide position so far 
assumed. 

The alternatives are : — 

CH.OMe /CH.OMe /CH.OMe /CH.OMe 



O 



\CH O CH.OH O [CH.OH], O [CH.OH], 

[CH.OH], ^^^CH ^'^CH ^N:H 




CHj.OH [CH.OH], CH.OH CH,. 



OH 




OH 



Ethylene Propylene Butylene Amylene 

oxide. oxide. < oxide. oxide. 

The remarkable ease with which fructosides are hydrolysed suggests 
that these compounds are constituted on a plan different from that of 
the glucosides, and careful experimental work has indeed shown that 
further isomerides, both of the methyl glucosides and other derivatives 
of glucose and similar sugars, exist although these are somewhat in« 
definitely characterised. Fischer originally showed that the reaction 
between glucose and methyl alcohol containing i per cent of hydrogen 
chloride yields, in addition to the two crystalline methyl glucosides, a 
considerable amount of a syrup which has hitherto not been purified 
and has been regarded as glucose dimethylacetal, CgH^gOr, i.e. 

/OMe 
CH,(OH) . [CH . 0H]4. CH(^ 

\0Me . 

or as an uncrystallisable mixture of the a- and )8-methyl glucosides. 
He found in 191 4 that the syrup distils without decomposition in a 
high vacuum, and has the composition, CyH^^O^, of a methyl glucoside. 
It is stable to alkalis, Fehling's solution and hot water, is hydrolysed 



f 



14 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

by acids but scarcely attacked by emulsin or by maltase. It is 
obviously a third isomeric methyl glucoside. 

Irvine, Fyfe and Hogg have shown that this methyl glucoside is a 
mixture of isomerides derived from an entirely new variety of glucose. 
The new methyl glucoside is characterised by the remarkable ease with 
which it enters into condensation with acetone, the remarkable capacity 
to reduce alkaline potassium permanganate solutions, the tendency to 
unite with one atomic proportion of oxygen to give a neutral product, 
and the ready auto-'condensation of this oxy-compound to give a product 
allied to the disaccharides. 

When methylated by the silver oxide method a new tetramethyl- 
methylglucoside is formed which behaves as a mixture of isomerides. 
When hydrolysed a new liquid, tetramethylglucose, is obtained which 
is laevo-rotatory and behaves as a derivative of a much more reactive 
form of glucose than the a or fi variety. It fails to form a phenyl- 
osazone, being resinified by phenylhydrazine and acetic acid. The 
optical properties of the tetramethyl hexitol formed from the sugar by 
reduction indicate that it is represented by the formulae : — 

CHj(OMe) . [CH . OMe], . CH(OH) . CHj(OH) 

On this basis an ethylene oxide structure must be assigned to the new 
tetramethylglucose, and the new methyl glucoside is a mixture of 
stereoisomerides, having the formulae : — 



CH.O— C— H H— C— OCH, 

o<| o/| 

\CH \CH 

I 
OH], [CH . OH], 

CH, . OH CH,( 



[CH. 



,0H 

The new glucose itself has not yet been isolated in the free state 
but it is evident that its reactivity far exceeds that of a- or )8-glucose, 

Nef, as the result of his investigations on the /8 and y lactones of 
the sugar acids, considers that the isomerism of the methyl glucosides 
does not depend on the position of the methyl group. He formulates 
the o-glucoside with a butylene oxide ring and the /8-glucoside with a 
propylene oxide ring. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 15 

Mutarotation— The Isomeric Forms of Glucose. 

The hypothesis that there are two stereoisomeric forms of glucose 
is the only one hitherto proposed which affords a satisfactory explana- 
tion of a peculiar property, characteristic of glucose and other sugars 
manifesting aldehydic functions, now known as mutarotatian or multi- 
rotation (but* formally termed birotation) ; namely, the optical rotatory 
power of the freshly dissolved substance changes gradually, sometimes 
increasing, but more usually falling, until a constant value is reached. 
The term birotation was introduced because the rotatory power of glu- 
cose in solution is about twice as great when it is freshly dissolved as 
that which it eventually assumes. The change takes place very slowly 
when highly purified materials are used, but almost immediately if 
a small quantity of alkali be added. The phenomenon was first ob- 
served by Dubrunfaut in 1 846 and ascribed by him to purely physical 
causes. The subject has of recent years caused a good deal of dis- 
cussion, and it is simplest to deal with the views that have been 
advanced in historical sequence. 

E. Fischer, in 1890, noticed that the optical rotatory power of 
certain lactones closely related to the sugars underwent change in 
solution as the lactone became hydrolysed to the corresponding acid. 
He therefore ascribed the change which occurs with glucose to a like 
addition of a water molecule, and assumed that the glucose (aldehyde) 
underwent conversion into a heptahydric alcohol (aldehydrol) of lower 
rotatory power : — 

CHO CH{OH), 

CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CH(OH) + H,0 -> CH(OH) 

CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CH(OH) CH(OH) 

CHj(OH) CH,(OH) 

Glucose (aldehyde). Alcohol (aldehydrol). 

The subject assumed a new aspect when it was shown by Tanret, 
in 1896, that besides the anhydrous and hydrated forms of glucose 
other isomeric anhydrous modifications could be obtained. He 
described an a-glucose ([aj^ + 1 lo**), the initial rotatory power of 
which fell gradually to \a\^ + 52'5° ; further, a /3-glucose ^ of low initial 

■ 

1 Tanret actually termed the substance represented above as /3-glucose y-glucose and 
designated 7-glucose as /S-glucose. The terms have been i^lter^d to brin^ tliem into a^e«t 
ment with the nomenclature (adopted. 



i6 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

rotatory power ([ajo + I9**)> increasing to [ajo + 52-5° in solution ; and, 
lastly, a 7-glucose ([a]D + 52*5**) of unalterable rotatory power in solu- 
tion. The three supposed isomerides were isolated by allowing glucose 
solutions to crystallise under different conditions — a-glucose separated 
at ordinary temperatures from solutions in 70 per cent alcohol, and 
/8-glucose from aqueous solutions at temperatures above 98** C. ; 
7-gIucose was obtained by precipitating a concentrated aqueous 
solution of glucose with alcohol. a-Glucose hydrate crystallises from 
aqueous solutions at the ordinary temperature. When powdered 
anhydrous glucose is added to water, it immediately undergoes hy- 
dration before passing into solution. 

The behaviour of these isomeric forms does not fit in with the 
theory that the mutarotation is due to the conversion of an aldehyde 
into an aldehydrol; moreover, the increase in rotatory power from 
P' to 7-glucose has also to be explained 

Tanret, Lippmann and others suggested that some forms of glucose 
have a closed-ring structure, as proposed by ToUens, and that in solu- 
tion these are completely converted into the isomeric aldehyde. 

A more fruitful suggestion was made by Simon who drew atten- 
tion to the optical behaviour of a- and )3-glucose in relation to that 
of the isomeric methyl glucosides of which the structure was known : — 

[o]d Wd 

o-Methyl glucoside + 157® a-Glucose + 105® ^ 

0- Methyl glucoside - 33'. jS-Glucose + 22® 

He suggested that the a- and /8-glucoses are homologues of the a- and 
)8-methyl glucosides, and that both contain a closed oxygenated ring. 
Direct proof of the glucosidic structure of a- and )3-gIucose was 
afforded by their preparation from the corresponding glucosides effected 
by the writer. Both glucosides are resolved into methyl alcohol and 
glucose by appropriate enzymes, and as the enzymes condition the 
hydrolysis more quickly than the glucose which is formed can undergo 
isomeric change, it is possible to determine the nature of the sugar 
which is formed initially. In practice, this is done by preparing a 
clear solution of glucoside and enzyme, allowing hydrolysis to proceed 
for a short time and then observing the optical rotatory power of the 
solution before and after the addition of a drop of ammonia, which 
hastens the rate of the isomeric change, and therefore has the effect 
of establishing equilibrium almost immediately. As a glucose of high 
initial rotatory power was obtained from a-methyl glucoside, and one 

^ The numerical values are Simon's, 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 17 

of low initial rotatory power from the /8-glucoside, it is clear that 
a- and /3-glucose correspond respectively to the a- and /3-glucoside. 

It remains to establish the nature of Tanret's 7-glucose, which he, 
as well as Simon and Lippmann, regarded as a third isomeride, ascrib- 
ing the mutarotation of a- and )8-glucose to their complete conversion 
into the isomeric aldehyde. 

The change in rotatory power of glucose was shown to be a process 
of reversible isomeric change by Lowry in 1 899. Lowry subsequently 
(1903) concluded that not only are a- and ^-glucose isodynamic com- 
pounds, but that Tanret's 7-glucose is a mixture in which these two 
compounds are present in equilibrium. 

On concentration of the solution of such an equilibrated mixture, 
a point is reached when one of the constituents crystallises out from 
the saturated liqj^d. The mixture in solution is consequently thrown 
out of equilibrium ; but as this happens a change takes place spon- 
taneously to restore the equilibrium — P passing into a, or vice versd, 
A solution of glucose containing a and fi forms can therefore be made 
to yield wholly a- or wholly j8-glucose on concentration, according to 
the temperature at which crystallisation takes place. The a form, 
which is then the less soluble, is that obtained at lower temperatures ; 
but above 98^ the y8 form, being the less soluble at the higher tem- 
perature, alone separates. Were the change into aldehyde complete, 
as Simon and Lippmann suggest, it would be impossible by mere 
crystallisation to convert this into cit-glucose. 

Tanret (1905) has accepted the conclusion that there are but two 
isomerides of glucose, corresponding to the a- and ^-methyl glucosides, 
and that his supposed third modification is an equilibrated mixture of 
these two forms. He has calculated from the rotatory power [a]^ + 110° 
of the pure a and [a]i, + 19'' of the pure)8 form that the proportion in 
which these are in equilibrium is a =» 37 per cent, )8 = 63 per cent in a 
10 per cent solution, and a =» 40, yS =» 60 per cent in a concentrated 
aqueous solution. 

By means of solubility determinations Lowry finds 52 per cent of 
the a form to be present in saturated solutions of glucose in methyl 
alcohol : the proportion of a decreases as the amount of water increases, 
amounting to 40 per cent in the mixture MeOH + HjO. He does 
not, however, interpret the remaining 60 per cent of sugar present in 
solution as )9-glucose, but considers that some quantity of the alde- 
hyde form is also present 

Conclusive proof that the mutarotation is caused by a balanced 

reaction between the a and /3 forms of the sugar is afforded by the 

2 

1 

I 



r 

rf 



1 8 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

numerical equality of the velocity coefficients of their mutarotation 
which have been determined over a range of temperature from o** to 40"*. 

Behrend finds that a-glucose can exist in contact with boiling 
ethyl or isobutyl alcoholic solutions, or as the monohydrate in contact 
with aqueous solutions. From the solution in boiling pyridine a 
monopyridine salt of ^-glucose separates, which on exposure rapidly 
loses pyridine. This forms a convenient method of preparing 
\ )8-glucose, which, according to Behrend, has m.p. 148°-! 50°, [ajo + 207^ 

Glucose as purified by crystallisation from dilute methyl alcohol is 
almost invariably a mixture of the different forms. To obtain a 
homogeneous substance the solid is soaked during several days or 
weeks with the solvent, at a constant temperature, until the whole of 
the /S-sugar present has been converted into the a-isomeride (Lowry). 

According to Hudson and Dale, acetic acid of various concentra- 
tions is the most suitable solvent for the recrystallisation of a- and 
)S-glucose. To obtain a-glucose 2 parts of the sugar are dissolved 
in I part of water and mixed with 4 parts of glacial acetic acid ; 
crystallisation is allowed to take place at the ordinary temperature. 
The best method of preparing /8-glucose is as follows: 10 parts of 
glucose are dissolved in i part of water on a water bath and 1 2 parts 
of glacial acetic acid heated to 100° are added The whole is well 
mixed and removed from the water bath, when crystallisation at once 
commences. After four such crystallisations pure )8-glucose is 
obtained. 

Hudson gives [a]o + 110° for a-glucose and + 19*' for y9-glucose. 

When the mixture of alcohol and water is sufficiently dilute glucose 
crystallises as hydrate, the transformation from anhydrous glucose to 
hydrate being clearly visible to the eye as the sugar changes from a 
fine powder to a hard cake of glistening crystals. Glucose hydrate 
undoubtedly has the structure of the oxonium hydroxide : — 

It is characteristic of the carbohydrates that their optical rotatory 
power is altered, in some cases very considerably, by changes of cpn- 
centration of the sugar. On the hypothesis that actually there is 
present in solution a mixture of two isomerides in equilibrium, it is 
obvious that the change in question will disturb the equilibrium in one 
or the other direction. In the case of glucose temperature has hardly 
any influence, but the rotation is greater in more concentrated solutijbns. 
When these are diluted the rotatory power returns to the lower vhlue 
only slowly, corresponding with the gradual establishment of the i^ew 



\ 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE> 19 

equilibrium. The rotation of fructose is very greatly influenced by 
change of temperature. The effect of salts in altering the rotatory 
power is also in part due to their concentration effect tending to alter 
the position of the equilibrium. 

The knowledge of the mutarotation of glucose and fructose, par- 
ticularly when liberated from sucrose, has been materially advanced by 
Hudson in a series of papers commenced in 1908, some years subse- 
quent to the definite proof of the nature of mutarotation by Armstrong 
and Lowry. 

Hudson draws attention to the recognition by O'Sullivan and 
Tompson in 1890 that the earlier polarimetric measurements of the 
inversion of sucrose by invertase were vitiated by a systematic error 
due to the fact that the glucose formed is initially in a mutarotatory 
condition. The optical rotation only gives a true measure of the 
amount of inversion after the addition of a drop of alkali. 

The conductivity of a-glucose in presence of boric acid decreases 
during mutarotation, whilst in the case of the /8 form the reverse is 
the case. Boeseken, in the light of his experience with polyhydroxy 
alcohols, interprets this fact as a proof that in a-glucose the hydroxyl 
radicles attached to carbons i and 2 are on the same side of the 
molecule and assigns a configuration to a-glucose which is the reverse 
of that pictured on page 9. In drawing this conclusion he has over- 
looked the conditions developed when water is added to the oxygen 
atom of the ring— 

1. H— C— OH 

2. H— C— OH 

I 

3. HO— C—H 



H— C— O] 
CH,( 




»H 
6. CH,OH 



From the formula above it will be seen that the pair of hydroxyls 
I , 7 may be responsible for the change in conductivity just as much 
as the pair i , 2. 

The question has been settled by Irvine and Steele from the study 
of the mutarotation and conductivity of tetramethylglucose. Proof is 
afforded that when dissolved in water this exists in the first place as 
a monohydric alcohol The marked increase in conductivity in the 
presence of boric acid, observed as mutarotation proceeds, shows that 
an additional hydroxy!* group becomes attached to the sugar, and this 



a* 



20 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

can only take place at the oxygen atom of the ring (position 7). The 
subsequent elimination of water may take place in either of two ways 
to generate the a or )S-sugars. The final equilibrium is : — 

a form ^ oxonium hydrate Z^ jS form. 
It follows that Boeseken's deductions cannot be accepted as proof of 
the structure of a and )8-glucose. 

Isomeric Change. — a ^ )8-Glucose. 

It remains to discuss the mechanism of the isomeric change 
a ^ )8-glucose. Two rival explanations have been advanced which 
differ really only in one respect : Lowry considers the formation of 
the aldehyde or its hydrate, which involves the opening of the ring, 
to be an intermediate stage in the process ; E. F. Armstrong, how- 
ever, has formulated the change as taking place without any dis- 
ruption of the 7-oxide ring. 

According to Lowry's view, the change is represented by the 
scheme of equilibrium : — 



HO— C— H 




CH(OH), 



H— C— OH 



CH.OH 
CH.OH 
CH.OH 
CH. 



OH 



CHp . OH 
a-Glucose. 



I 



CHa . OH 

Aldehyde hydrate. 




This scheme is intermediate in character between Fischer s former 
view (p. 1 5), that mutarotatioh is due to hydration and the more recent 
view that mutarotation is due to isomeric change. 

In anhydrous alcohol (which, however, contains traces of water) the 
velocity of the isomeric change a ^ /3-glucose is small, but it increases 
as water is added and the opportunity for hydration is increased. 
Lowry takes the view that an aqueous solution of glucose contains a 
considerable proportion of aldehyde (open-chain form), in addition to 
a- and i8-glucose (closed-ring forms), whereas in alcoholic solution 
there is little or no aldehyde. 

E. F. Armstrong considers the first stage in the process to be the 
formation, by the addition of water, of the oxonium hydrate, from 
which, by the elimination of water in another manner, an unsaturated 
compound results. This is illustrated in the following scheme, in 
which only the carbon skeleton of the pentaphane ring is indicated : — 



\ 




GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 21 

Q Q Q Q Q 

OH (+HaO) I I OH (- H,0) I I 

^ C— C— C CC ^ C— C— C Cv 

H \/ \h \^ ^H 

o o 

H OH OH 

Glucose. Oxonium hydrate. Unsaturated compound. 

It is possible to add the elements of water to this unsaturated 
bond in either of two ways, giving rise to the o- and )8-glucoses re- 
spectively, or their oxonium hydrates. If this stereoisomerism is 
pictured in plane projection in the conventional manner with reference 
to the terminal carbon atom^ (in Clarendon type in the preceding 
diagram), the simultaneous formation of both isomerides according 
as the hydroxyl group re-enters into combination with the terminal 
carbon atom at the respective valency points marked (a) and (J3) in 
the unsaturated oxonium compound is evident : — 

H 

HO H /!\ H OH 






C 

/ Unsaturated / 

ist position = a-GIucose. oxonium 2nd position « jB-Glucose. 

compound. 

Lowry's view that an aldehydrol is the intermediate compound is 
not consistent with the increase in conductivity during mutarotation 
and may therefore be dismissed, and the evidence in favour of .the 
oxonium theory may now be regarded as conclusive. 

The mechanism of mutarotation probably varies with the particular 
solvent employed, but it depends essentially on combination between 

^ The asymmetric carbon atom in Clarendon type has attached to it the four radicles — 
(i) hydrogen, (2) hydroxyl, (3) the pentaphane oxygen, (4) a carbon atom of the ring. The 
stereoisomerism of a- and /3-glucose is explained above ''as due to the interchange in the 
relative positions of the hydrogen and the pentaphane oxygen. This relationship is 
awkward to picture in plane formulse; it is therefore more convenient to represent the 
stereoisomerism as due to the interchange in (he relative positions of the hydrogen and 
hydroxyl radicles, as is done for example in the formula on previous pages. Reference 
to a solid model will show that this comes to exactly the same in the end, as the carbon 
atom in engaging with the pentaphane oxygen in its a or jS position is necessarily rotated, 
so that a projection of the solid tetrahedron viewed in plan will show hydrogen alternately 
on the right and left of hydroxyl. It is almost essential to consult a model if a full under- 
standing of the difference between a- and jS-glucose and also between glucose and galactose 
is desired. 



22 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

solvent and solute followed by decomposition of the complex in two 
directions. 
-r Tetramethyl glucose shows mutarotation in water, in dehydrated 
organic solvents, in hydrocarbons and in halogen compounds. Irvine 
has obtained polai;in^etric evidence in some of these cases that com- 
plexes of the oxonium type are formed. Whereas in aqueous solutions 
the change is promoted by alkaline catalysts, in acetone an acid 
catalyst appears necessary before the change takes place, probably 
because change is only promoted when the solvent is partly enolised 
and may thus combine with the sugar. Examples of this are afforded 
by dimethyl-)8-glucose (Irvine and Scott) and by the anilides of 
alkylated sugars (Irvine and McNicoU). 

No doubt the same explanation — combination with the enolised 
solvent — will be found to apply to the mutarotation in anhydrous 
formamide "solution studied by Mackenzie and Gosh. ,. 

The formation of a definite compound of pyridine with glucose 
(Behrend and Roth) affords further confirmation of this view. 

This explanation of the isomeric change has the advantage that it 
is equally applicable to the analogous Jnterconversion of the a- and 
/8-acetochloro glucoses and of the a- and /8-pentacetyl glucoses, neither 
of which can be explained on the aldehyde hydrate hypothesis ; and 
it also applies to the interconversion of the or- and yS-methyl glucosides. 
In this last case Fischer has assumed that an intermediate compound 
of the acetal type is produced and the pentaphane ring is opened — a 
scheme identical with that just described as subsequently advocated 
by Lowry. • The first product of the action of dry methyl alcohol 
containing i per cent of hydrogen chloride on glucose at the ordinary 
temperature is a syrup differing from either glucoside. This could 
not be analysed, but was regarded by Fischer as glucose dimethyl- 
acetal. It has now been shown to be probably the ethylene oxide 
form of methyl glucoside. 

Measurements of the velocity of their transformation made by 
Jungius led him to the conclusion that the two glucosides are directly 
convertible into each other and that it is very improbable that an 
acetal is formed. Further, the reversible conversion of the a- and 
/9-tetramethyl methyl glucosides takes place at temperatures of 
1 1 o°- ISC'" independently of the nature of the solvent used : a result 
which excludes the intermediate formation of a compound of an 
acetal type. 

The isomeric change of one series of glucose derivatives into the 
other has been formulated in the foregoing on the hypothesis that 



\ 
\ 
\ 



\ 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 23 

additive oxonium compounds are formed in which the lactonic oxygen 
displays quadrivalency. Indeed no other explanation is applicable to 
all the transformations observed in the glucose series. Such additive 
oxonium compounds are well known to be formed in other cases, such 
as dimethylpyrone (Collie and Tickle). Irvine and Moodie have 
brought forward evidence to show that tetramethyl glucose forms 
an oxonium derivative with isopropyl iodide. The presence of the 
etheric groups in the alkylated sugar apparently increases the basicity 
of the butylene-oxidic oxygen atom, and so makes the identification 
of the oxonium compound possible. 
-^ From the biolog^'cal point of view, the fact that glucose exists in 
solution not as a single substance but as an equilibrated mixture of 
stereoisomeric butylene oxide forms, readily convertible into one 
another, is of fundamental and far-reaching importance. If one of the 
stereoisomerides is preferentially metabolised in the plant or animal, 
in the course of either synthetic or analytic processes, the possibility 
of controlling the equilibrium in the one or other direction, so as to 
increase or limit the supply of this form, places a very delicate directive 
mechanism at the disposal of the organism. This question is un* 
doubtedly one which demands the close attention of physiologists. 

The speeds of mutarotation of most of the sugars are indicated in 
the following table, given by Hudson : — 

TABLE I. — Thb Vblocity-Cobpficibnts op thb Mutarotation op the Sugars in 

Water at 20®. 



Sugi^. ''^ + '^ = 7 ^^7^ 



(Minutes and Decimal Logarithms). 

Fructose 0*082 

Lyxose 0*065 

Rhamnose 0*039 

Arabinose 0*031 

Fucose 0*022 

Xylose . . .^ 0*021 

Mannose 0*0190 

a-Glucoheptose 0*0x22 

Galactose 0*0102 

Melibiose 0*0088 

Maltose 0*0072 

Glucose 0*0065 

Cellose 0*0047 

Lactose 0*0046 

The initial and final solubilities of most of the crystalline sugars are 
summarised in the following table likewise due to Hudson : — 



24 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

TABLE II. — SOLUBILITIBB OF SUOARS AT Zo". 









,^r,s 


J«,r^ 


Sugu. 


" 


Solvent 






iDlLSoL 


PIwISoL 


a-Arabinose 


So pet cenL alcobo 


074 


>■« 


i8-Cdlo« . . 






so „ „ 


31 


47 


S-Fruclose 






So „ 


I3'4 


an 








95 


1-8 


4-a 








Methyl alcohol 


j-a 




B-Gabctosc 






So per cent, alcohol 




3*1 








So „ 


o-a? 


5-65 


B,a- Glucobeptose 








4-0 


4'5 


tt-Giucose . 






So „ 




4 '5 








Methyl alcohol 


0I5 


;-6 


- ;; hydraie 




H,0 


So per cent, alcohol 


'■3 


3-0 


B- „ . . 






80 „ 


4'9 


9*t 


s-Lactoae hydrate 




,H,0 


40 „ 




2-4 


a-LyxoBe , 






90 


5'4 


T9 


B-Maltow hydrate 




H,0 


60 


3-0 


475 


fl-MannOGe 






to .. 




13-0 








Methyl alcohol 


078 


4'4 


3-MeUbloM dibydrate 




,aH,0 


80 per cent, alcohol 


076 


1*3 






H,0' 


Absolute alcohol 


8-6 


9*5 






H.O 


TO per cent, alcohol 


S-2 


9-6 


o-Xylose . . 






80 „ 


27 


e-a 


Sucrose . . 






Bo „ 


37 


37 


Trehalose dihydrate 




,>H,0 


70 


1-8 


1-8 




5H,0 


50 ., 


1-4 


1-4 



The More Important Derivatives of Glucose. 

The experimental work of the last ten years has shown that most of 
the derivatives of glucose likewise exist in two or more forms differing 
in physical properties, more particularly crystalline form, optical rota- 
tory power and melting-point. The chemical behaviour of all these 
substances is such that it must be assumed that the aldehydic function 
has disappeared, giving risei to the closed-ring structure already 
formulated. 

Glucose Pentacetates. 

Under proper experimental conditions, all five hydroxyl groups 
in glucose become acetylated, the a- or /3-pentacetate predominat- 
ing in the product according to the method adopted. As these 
compounds form the starting-point for a number of syntheses, it is 
important to understand fully the methods of preparing them. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 25 



They have the following formulae : — 
AcO— CH 

HCOAc 



AcO 




HC— OAc 

/ 
HCOAc 



AcOCH 



i 




[Ac « CaHjO] 




HC 



HC . OAc 



OAc 
a-Glucose pentacetate. 



i, 



:h, . OAc 

iS-Glucose pentacetate. 



To obtain the a-pentacetate it is necessary to acetylate glucose 
instantly before isomeric change can take place, since the presence of 
acid greatly accelerates the isomeric change from a- to )8-glucose. This 
is done by adding anhydrous a-glucose to boiling acetic anhydride con- 
taining a small quantity of zinc chloride as catalyst. A violent action 
ensues, and the sugar passes into solution. The product is poured into 
water, which is changed from time to time to remove the acetic acid ; 
finally the a-glucose pentacetate solidifies. The crude product contains 
both isomerides : it is purified by crystallisation from alcohol. The 
a-pentacetate predominates also when glucose is acetylated in pyri- 
dine solution at 0°. 

To obtain the )8-pentacetate, glucose is mixed with acetic anhydride 
and sodium acetate, and heated for some time at the temperature of 
the water bath. As the change from a- to )3-glucose in this case pre- 
cedes acetylation, /3-glucose pentacetate predominates in the final 
product, and may be separated by fractional crystallisation. 

The pentacetates are colourless crystalline compounds, insoluble 
in water and readily hydrolysed by alkaline hydroxides. When heated 
with acetic anhydride either form is partially converted into the other 
until equilibrium is attained when 90 per cent, of the a and 10 per 
cent, of the /8 form are present. Jungius has shown that this change 
may also be effected by adding a small amount of sulphur trioxide to 
a solution of the acetate in chloroform. 
^ In the case of galactose no less than four pentacetates have been 

isolated. 
y The ^-butylene-oxide form was first prepared by Erwig and 
Koenigs by acetylating galactose with acetic anhydride and sodium 
acetata Hudson and Parker find that when this form is boiled with 
acetic anhydride and a little zinc chloride the a-butylene oxide isomer- 
ide is obtained to the extent of about 70 per cent of the original 



I 



26 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

material. The usual method of separating the ^-pentacetate is to 
pour the acetylation product into cold water. Hudson finds that the 
chloroform extract of this water after filtering off the /8-pentacetate 
contains a third isomeride, and this on treatment with zinc oxide in the 
manner described is converted into a fourth isomeride in small quanti- 
ties — only about lo per cent, of the original. The isomerides have the 
following physical constants : — 



TABLE III. 



No. 

I 

2 

3 
4 


Structure. 


Melting-point. 


Wd- 


/3-Butylene oxide . 
/3-Ethylene oxide 


142 

95-5 
98 

87 


+ 7-5'* 
+ io6-o° 

-42° 
+ 6i° 



Hudson regards his new isomerides as possessing an oxide structure 
other than a butylene oxide, and in the light of the foregoing pages 
the ethylene oxide structure may provisionally be assigned to them. 

Acetochloroy Acetonitro Glucoses, — In either isomeride, one of the 
acetyl groups — that attached to the terminal carbon atom (in Clarendon 
type) linked to the pentaphane oxygen atom — is far more active than 
the rest. When subjected to the action of anhydrous liquid hydro- 
gen bromide or hydrogen chloride in sealed tubes at the ordinary 
temperature, this acetyl group alone is displaced by halogen. In this 
way a-pentacetyl glucose gives a-acetochloro glucose, ,fi-pentacetyl 
glucose the corresponding )3-acetochloro glucose — both beautifully 
crystalline colourless substances. Nitric acid acts in a similar manner, 
causing the formation of crystalline a- and /8-acetonitro glucoses : — 



HC . NO, 

HC . OAc^ 



AcO.CH 

\. 

HC 



'O ^?^») AcO.tH 

\ 
HC 



HC . OAc 

HC . O Ac^ 

I 




(HCl) 



HC. 
CHo. 



OAc 



HC . OAc 



OAc 



i, 



IHa . OAc 
/S-Glucose pentacetate. 




OAc 
^-Acetochloro glucose. 



/3-Acetonitro glucose. 

Physical measurements also indicate that one of the acetyl groups 
is more easily detached than the others. This is proved by the fact 
that the rate at which the acetyl groups are removed by hydrolysis 
with alkali from the glucose pentacetates decreases as change pro- 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO^LUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 27 

ceeds ; yet the tetra-acetyl methyl glucosides, which contain four simi- 
larly placed acetyl groups but lack the one contiguous to the pentaphane 
oxygen, are hydrolysed by alkali at a rate which is constant throughout 
the whole change. 

Hudson in a similar manner has obtained a new acetochloro galac- 
tose from his third /8-ethylene oxide pentacetate, and it is obviously 
possible to obtain a whole series of ethylene oxide derivatives of 
galactose in this manner. 

The chloro-, bromo- and nitro- groups are even more reactive than 
the acetyl group, and are easily displaced — for example, by methoxyl 
— on shaking a solution of the compound in anhydrous methyl alcohol 
with silver carbonate. The isomeric tetra-acetyl methyl glucosides 
thus obtained are converted, when hydrolysed by an alkali, into the 
corresponding isomeric methyl glucosides. These syntheses make it 
possible to pass from )9-glucose to /3-methyl glucoside through a series 
of /8 compounds and to correlate all these compounds with /8-glucose. 

Acetochloro and acetobromo glucose have been rendered easily 
accessible by a more convenient method of preparation : powdered 
crystalline anhydrous glucose, dissolved in about five times its weight 
of acetic anhydride, is boiled with half its weight of anhydrous sodium 
acetate for two or three hours. The product is poured into a large 
volume of ice-water and the crude )8-glucose pentacetate is freed as 
much as possible from acetic anhydride by pulverisation under water 
and then crystallised from 96 per cent, alcohol, when it is obtained in 
74 per cent, yield. 

One part of the pentacetate is left with two parts of the commercial 
solution of hydrobromic acid in acetic acid for two hours at the ordi- 
nary temperature. Four parts of chloroform are added and the mixture 
shaken with twice its weight of ice-water ; the chloroform extract is 
run off and the residue again shaken with a little chloroform, after 
which the united chloroform solutions are washed.with water, dried 
over calcium chloride, and the chloroform removed under a vacuum. 
The oily residue is triturated with light petroleum until crystallisation 
sets in and subsequently the collected crystals are rapidly recrystallisied 
from a little amyl alcohol, washed with light petroleum, and stored in 
a vacuuip over soda-lime. 

Irvine considers that Hudson's method of simultaneous bromina- 
tion and acetylation by a solution of hydrobromic acid in acetic anhy- 
dride is superior in many ways to the above. 

Acetoiodo glucose has also been prepared. In all cases, by this 
method only the fi derivatives are obtained. Apparently rearrange- 
ment takes place very readily tjuring the preparation of a acetochloro 



1 

1 



28 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

glucose by means of anhydrous hydrogen chloride and the a derivatives 
are not always obtainable ; indeed, Fischer has cast some doubt on 
their existence. 

Mono-, di-, tri-, tetra- and two isomeric pentabenzoyl derivatives of 
glucose have been prepared. The most interesting of these is 6-mono- 
benzoyl glucose which proves to be identical with the natural com- 
pound vacciniin isolated by Griebel from the whortleberry. 

When ^-acetobromoglucose is shaken in ethereal solution with 
silver carbonate and a little water tetra-acetyl glucose is obtained ; 
this, like tetra-methyl glucose, exhibits mutarotation and exists in two 
forms. It yields a phenylhydrazone. 

Hudson has isolated a /8-tetra-acetyl galactose having the ethylene 
oxide structure which shows mutarotation with increasing dextro rota- 
tion. Acetobromo glucose also interacts with pyridine, forming tetra- 
acetyl glucose pyridinium bromide. 

Anhydroglucose. 

When the action of anhydrous hydrogen bromide on glucose pent- 
acetate is prolonged dibromo-triacetyl glucose, 



O- 



CHjBr . CH(OAc) . CH . (CH . GAc), . CHBr, 

is obtained. One of the bromine atoms can be displaced by methoxyl 
with the formation of triacetyl methyl glucoside bromohydrin. This 
compound has served as the starting-point for the preparation of a new 
isomeride of glucosamine (p. 64). When it is heated with barium 
hydroxide hydrogen bromide is eliminated, and anhydromethyl gluco- 

^ side, C7Hij05, is formed ; this when hydrolysed by dilute acids yields 
anhydrogluco3e, a well-characterised crystalline substance. i^It forms 

^a phenylhydrazone and phenylosazone, both containing one molecule 
of water less than the corresponding glucose compounds. On the 
assumption of a butylene-oxide ring structure for the new anhydride, 
anhydro glucose will have the attached formula. This is fully in har- 

HCOH 



I 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 29 

mony with the deductions possible from the solid model of glucose. 
The 6-carbon being free to rotate can take up the position indicated, 
which is favourable for the formation of a butylene-oxide ring, linking it 
with the /S-carbon atom through oxygen. The second bromine atom 
in triacetyl-dibromo glucose is in the exposition, as proved by the 
reduction to a methylpentose (page 84). 

Anhydromenthol glucoside has been obtained in a similar manner 
to anhydromethyl glucoside ; it is of interest that emulsin is without 
action on either compound, though it readily hydrolyses the normal 
glucosides. 

It would appear that the possibility of the existence in nature of 
anhydrides of glucose and of glucosides is not excluded, since the 
reduction product of anhydroglucose, anhydrosorbitol, is an isomeride 
of naturally occurring styracitol. 

Glucal. 

When ^-acetobromoglucose is reduced by zinc dust and acetic 
acid, a peculiar compound, to which Fischer has given the name of 
glucal, is produced (aftet removal of the acetyl groups). It is a slightly 
sweet, soluble, viscid syrup of aldehydic properties, forming oily hydra- 
zones but no osazones, and evidently possesses ethylenic unsaturation, 
since it decolorises bromine water. Fischer's later formula for glucal 
is: — 

CH,(OH) . CH . CHj . CH(OH) . C : CH(OH). 
I O I 

When it is hydrogenated in presence of palladium, hydroglucal is 
formed, the double bond disappearing ; the same product is obtained 
when acetylglucal is hydrogenated in similar manner and then hydro- 
lysed. 

The evidence for the formula does not seem entirely conclusive, 
and it is conceivable that an explanation on the basis of the ethylene 
oxide isomerides of the sugars may later serve to explain the abnormal 
reducing powers of the compound ; the formation of a butylene-oxide 
ring between the second and fifth carbon atoms of the chain appears 
unusual. 

Methyl Glucoses. 

' The properties of the hydroxyl groups in glucose can be masked 
by their replacement by acetyl or benzoyl groups. The ethers so 
formed crystallise well, but the acid groups render these compounds 
resistant to the action of enzyines ; they are, moreover, too easily re- 
moved in subsequent interactions. The substitution of methoxyl for 



30 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

hydroxy! has a less disturbing influence ; indeed, methylation has little 

effect on the characteristic chemical reactions of reducing sugars except 

in increasing stability. The reducing sugars themselves cannot beX.«^ 

directly methylated by any of the ordinary methods; but, as Purdie ^^■ 

and Irvine have shown, it is possible to methylate the methylglucosides a^^ 

' i' 

by exhaustive treatment with methyl iodide and silver oxide. The 11: 

products are purified by distillation in vacuum and subsequently ob- * 

tained crystalline. 

This method has proved of the greatest value, since it has been 
found that during the reaction stereochemical changes such as racemisa- 
tion, the Walden inversion, or interconversion of glucosides, do not 
take place. On the other hand, it is expensive, for very large excesses 
of the costly methyl iodide and silver oxide are necessary, and the 
recent work of Haworth, who has succeeded in determining the con- 
ditions under which commercial sodium hydroxide and methyl sulphate 
in aqueous solution may be employed without detriment to the optical 
purity of the products, is a welcome improvement. 

Briefly, the sugar, dissolved in the least quantity of water, is stirred 
at a constant temperature of 70" , and in the course of an hour three 
times the theoretical amount of the new alkylating reagents are 
simultaneously added from two separate funnels ; subsequently the 
temperature is raised to 100'' for half an hour. A slight alkalinity 
must be maintained throughout, for even the transitory local existence 
of an acid system tends to induce hydrolytic changes, whilst, of course, 
excessive alkalinity causes 'bnolisation, resinification, etc., to set in. 

Sometimes, by this method, the last hydroxyl group to be attacked 
is left wholly or incompletely methylated owing to diminishing solu- 
bility of the products in the medium, and in these cases it is well to have 
recourse to the former method for the final stages of the methylation. 

The isomeric a- and /9-pentamethyl glucoses (e.g. tetramethyl- 
methyl glucosides), when hydrolysed by acids, are converted into tetra- 
methyl glucoses : — 



McOC— H HOC— H 

:OMe^ 



HCi 



ICH 




MeO 
H 
:OMe 



Ha 



CH,( 



iOMe 
a-Pentamethyl glucose. 




GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 31 

Both compounds yield finally the same tetramethyl glucose of 
constant rotatory power, but initially a- and /8-tetramethyl glucoses are 
obtained from them, which exhibit mutarotation and slowly change in 
solution into the equilibrated mixture. Tetramethyl glucose is con- 
verted by Fischer's method of etherification into a mixture of a- and 
)9-tetramethyl-methyl glucosides. 

Tetramethyl glucose is not fermentable, but tetramethyl )8-methyl 
glucoside is hydrolysed by emulsin, a fact which indicates that the 
introduction of the methyl groups into a glucoside does not put the 
resulting compounds out of harmony with enzymes. 

A number of other sugars have been fully alkylated in like manner. 

The partially methylated derivatives of the sugar group possess 
a special interest, as their study has already afforded a clue to many 
of the vexed questions in carbohydrate chemistry. Definite mono-, 
di- and trimethylated hexoses have been prepared by Irvine, and 
their investigation has already assisted materially in the character- 
isation of the new ethylene oxide forms of glucose which have been 
described on page 13. The methods employed in their preparation 
consist in subjecting to methylation by the silver iodide method 
hexose derivatives in which certain of the hydroxyl groups are shielded 
from attack ; for instance, the terminal (aldehydic) hydroxyl may be 
transformed to methyl glucoside before the operation, or other of the 
hydroxyl groups may be temporarily occupied in condensation com- 
plexes with compounds such as benzaldehyde or acetone. The partially 
methylated glucoses are obtained on submitting these compounds to 
hydrolysis. 

Thus, glucose diacetone forms only a monomethyl derivative, from 
which on hydrolysis 6-monomethylglucose, 

CHj(OMe) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH(OH)]- . CH(OH), 

1 O ^1 

IS obtained. It is of interest that above about 35° C. the acetone 
groups are removed simultaneously and at the same rate. 

Both a and fi forms of the monomethyl glucose have been ob- 
tained crystalline and optically pure. The new compound forms a 
monomethyl glucosazone, identical with that obtained from 6-mono- 
methyl fructose, in which the methoxyl group has been proved to occupy 
the'terminal position, since it yields dihydroxymethoxybutyric acid on 
oxidation which is incapable of forming a lactone. Neither form of 
monomethyl glucose is attacked by yeast ferments. 

To prepare dimethyl glucose (probably the 2, 3- compound), benzyl- 
idene a-methyl glucoside is methylated and the product hydrolysed, 



32 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

first the benzylidene group and then the glucoside group being elimin- 
ated. Both a- and /9-isomerides of the compound have been prepared ; 
it has the constitution — 

CH,{OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH(OMc)i . CH(OH) 

I O 1 

It yields a crystalline phenylhydrazone, but, as would be expected, 
no phenylosazone, since number 2 hydroxyl is not available ; its be- 
haviour to enzymes does not seem yet to have been studied. 

When methyl glucoside is methylated in methyl alcoholic solution 
a trimethylglucose methylglucoside is the main product from which 
2-, 3", 5-trimethyl glucose is obtained on hydrolysis : — 

CH,(OH) . CH(OMe) . CH . [CH(OMe)], . CH(OH) 

I O 1 

When glucose diacetone, referred to above, is hydrolysed for several 
hours at about 30** C, only one acetone group is removed, and when 
the product, glucose monoacetone, is alkylated a trimethyl derivative 
is formed which gives 3-, 5-, 6-trimethylglucose on hydrolysis : — 

CH(OMe) . CH(OMe) . CH . CH(OMe) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) 

I o ! 

Probably two forms of this carbohydrate exist, but they have been 
obtained so far only in the equilibrated mixture, the optical behaviour 
of which appears to be abnormal and requires investigation. 

Denham and Woodhouse have isolated a crystalline trimethyl- 
glucose from cellulose and show that it is probablythe 2-, 3-, 6-isomer- 
ide: — 

CH,(OMe). CH(OH) . CH . [CH(OMe)],. CH(OH) 

J — O ^1 

Thio-derivatives, — Glucose interacts with two molecules of a thio- 
alcohol forming well-characterised crystalline mercaptals : — 

y'SEt 

CHj(OH) . (CH . 0H)< . CH<; 

\SEt 

The amyl mercaptal is sparingly soluble and ^/-amylmercaptan 
has been used by Votocek for resolving racemic aldoses, e.g. 
arabinose. 

Thio-derivatives of glucose are also obtained when a pyridine 
solution of the sugar is saturated with hydrogen sulphide. The silver 
salt of these closely resembles that of thioglucose obtained by Schneider 
from thiourethane glucosides and sinigrin. He considers it to be a 
mixture of the salts A and B, in the proportion 2:1. 

I °~~i 

CHj(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OH), . CH . SAg ... A 
CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OH), . CH . SAg . . . B 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 33 

AnilideSy Hydrazones^ Oxttnes. — The interactions involved in the 
formation of anilides, hydrazones and oximes of glucose are most 
simply explained, on the assumption that the sugar is participating in 
a typical aldehyde reaction. None the less the occurrence of more 
than one form of all these derivatives forces the adoption of the closed- 
ring formula in such cases. Skraup early showed that a second phenyl- 
hydrazone of glucose could be isolated, isomeric with that described 
originally by Fischer. Isomeric benzyl phenylhydrazones have also 
been obtained. The rotatory power of hydrazones changes in solution. 
It would go too far to discuss the nature of the isomerism here, nor is 
it yet satisfactorily established, but it may be pointed out that glucose 
phenylhydrazone may be formulated in syn- and anti-forms of the 
true aldehydic derivative, or as a- and ^-hydrazides of butylene-oxide 
structure, nor does this exhaust the possible isomerides. 

Irvine and Moody have shown in the case of tetramethyl glucose 
that both the oximes and anilides possess the butylene-oxide ring in 
the hexose residue, and are thus to be regarded as derived from the 
a- or )8- form of glucose, and not from an aldehydic isomeride: Their 
conclusions may reasonably be extended to the oximes and anilides 
of glucose, the latter of which Irvine and Gilmore have shown to exist 
in two modifications. The same authors failed to alkylate glucose 
phenylhydrazone or tetramethyl glucose phenylhydrazone, and con- 
sider it still an open question whether these derivatives belong to the 
butylene-oxide type. 

The properties of a number of these derivatives are summarised in 
the following table : — 

TABLE IV. 





a-Serles. 


/l-Serles. 


Glucose Derivative. 












M.-pt. 


Wd. 


M.-pt. 


Wd. 


Penta-acetate . . . . 


iia" 


+ 100° 


134° 


+ 3" 


Acetochloro 




63* (?) 
79° ?) 


— 


73^ 


+ 165° 


Acetobromo 




— 


88° 


+ 198'' 


Acetonitro .... 




92" 


+ 1*5° 


1500 


+ 149'' 


Tctra-acctylmcthyl 




100° 


+ 137^ 


105° 


- 23^ 


Methyl glucoside 




165" 


+ 157° 


104° 


- 33^ 


6-Monomethyl glucose 




157° 


+ 96° 


130'' 


+ 3a 


2 : 3- Dimethyl glucose 




85° 


+ 82° 


io8<> 


+ 6° 


2:3: s-Trimethyl glucose . 




___ 


— 


— 


— 


2:3:6- „ „ 




— ^ 


-^ 


— 


— 


3:516- .» »» ■ 




— 


— 


— 


— 


2:3:5: 6-Tetramethyl glucose . 




101° 


— 


+ K 


Pentamethyl glucose . 


" 


154° 


" 


- 17° 



34 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDE§ 

Stereoisomerism of the Aldohexoses. 

A compound represented by the empirical formula, 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO, 

containing four asymmetric carbon atoms, should, according to the 
Le Bel-van't HofT hypothesis, be capable of existing in sixteen stereo- 
isomeric forms, eight of which would be mirror images of the other 
eight and of equal but opposite rotatory power. 

Thus, corresponding to ordinary dextro-glucose (d^glucose), there 
should be a laevo-rotatory isomeride (/-glucose) of equal and opposite 
rotatory power, of like configuration but having the dissimilar radicles 
in reversed order.^ In point of fact, when glucose is prepared by arti- 
ficial means from optically inactive material, a mixture in equal pro- 
portions of d and / forms is actually obtained. , Such a mixture is 
optically inactive — whether the two forms actually combine or merely 
neutralise one another in optical effect is unknown. 

Although only three aldohexoses occur naturally (glucose, man- 
nose, galactose), fourteen of the sixteen possible isomerides are now 
known. Emil Fischer, to whom we owe the discovery of this remark- 
able series, has not only shown how they may be prepared, but has 
made them in such ways that their structural relationship may be 
regarded as established. His results are summarised in the following 
table : — 

^ The formula assigned to d- and /-glucose are chosen arbitrarily ; that is to say, it 
is assumed that in the d form the groups occupy a certain position, whence it follows that 
in the stereoisomeride they are present in the reversed position. For the original proof of 
the validity of the fbrmulse and the arguments by which they are deduced, the reader is 
referred to Fischer's summary in the Bgrichie dit deutsehiu chemischen GeselUchaft for 
1894 (p. 3x89). A further convention is to indicate as belonging to the d- series all com- 
pounds derived from dextro-glucose by simple reactions which leave the stereochemical 
structure of the molecule unchanged. In many instances, as for example i-fructose and 
J-arabinose, the new compound rotates polarised light to the left, so that the prefix does 
not give a correct indication of the sense of the rotation. Similarly all compounds derived 
from lavo-glucose are designated as of the / series though they may be dextro-rotatory. It 
has been possible to connect the amino acids, hydroxy acids and some other optically active 
substances with dextro-glucose, so that the prefix d has a very definite significance in these 
cases, the number of which is likely to increase. Unfortunately, in other cases the prefix 
merely denotes the sign of the rotation, so that J-mandelic acid, for example, which is 
dextro-rotatory, forms a laevo-rotatory nitrile, which is therefore termed /-mandelo nitrile. 
A new symbol other than d to connote relationship to tf-glucose appears highly desirable. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 35 



TABLE V. 



^ CHO 
H-J— OH 



H-(^OH 






^ 



CHjOH 
/-Mannose. 

CHO 
HO-<h-H 
H-<^OH 



HO-<|-H 
H-<^H. 



CHjOH 
' Mdose. ? 

» CHO 

HO-<f-H 

H-(M)H 

H-(^-OH 

HO-(^H 

CHjOH 
/.Galactose. 

CHO 
HO-<»-H 
H0-4^-H 
HO-(t-H 
HOH— H 



CHjOH 

/-Allose 
unknown. 



HO- 



CHO 



-H 



ALDOHEXOSBS. 



HO-^^H 
H-(S-OH 



H-(;r-OH 



CH,OH 
<2-Manno8e. 

CHO 
H-(|-OH 

HO--(?-H 
H-{;— OH 

HO-(;-H 



CHjOH 
<2-Ido8e. ' 

CHO 
H-^L-OH 



HO-it-H 

HO-(t-H 

H-<^OH 

CHjOH 
<2- Galactose. 

CHO 
H-(l-.OH 
H~(?-OH 
HH^-OH 



H-(5-OH 

CHjOH 
<2-Allo6e. 



CHO 
HO-^H 



H-<|-OH 



H0-(5-H 

HO-(J-H 

CH,OH 
/•Glucose. 

r- CHO 
H-tf— OH 
H-(M)H 



H0-4~H 

H-<?-OH 

CHjOH 
/•Gulose. 7 

"" CHO 
H-(L-OH 
H-(^-OH 
HH^-OH 



HOHJ-H 

:h,oh 

Z-Talose. 

I CHO 

H-<t-OH 
HO-(!-H 
HO-<^-H 



H0-4^H 

CHjOH 

/-Altrose 
unknown. 



CHO 

H-^i-OH 

HO-h}-H 

H-^^-OH 

HHM)H 

CHjOH 
^/'Glucose. 

CHO 
HO-<r-H 
HO-(^H 



H-(ir-OH 

HO-^H ,^ 

T CHjOH N 
a-Gulose. f 



CHO 
H0-4-H 



H0-4^-H 

HO-<J-H 

H-i^-OH 

CH,OH 
J-Talose. 

CHO 
HO-(J-H 
H-^|L-OH 
H-j^-OH 
H-<t-OH 



CH.OH 
i^Altrose. 



As two closed-chain butylene oxide as well as two closed-chain 
ethylene oxide forms should exist corresponding to each of the open 
chain aldehydic forms, no less a number of isomeric " glucoses " is 
foreseen by theory than 16 + 32 +32« 80. 

The last four aldohexoses in the table remained unknown to 
Fischer, though he pointed out that they were to be derived theoreti- 
cally from the isomeric riboses, only one of which had at that time been 

3* 



36 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



prepared. The discovery by Levene and Jacobs that rf-ribose is a 
constituent of nucleic acids, from which it can be obtained in quantity, 
has enabled two of the missing aldoses to be prepared. By the 
application of the cyanohydrin synthesis (p. 58) to ^-ribose, ^^llose 
and rf-altrose were obtained as syrups both yielding the same phenyl- 
osazone. Their behaviour on oxidation is in agreement with the 
structural formulae assigned to them. 

It is desirable to indicate briefly the manner in which the configura- 
tion of the sugars has been determined, as the same methods serve in 
the case of new compounds which may be found to occur naturally. 

The most straightforward method of procedure is to determine first 
the structure of the pentoses and from them that of hexoses. 



CHO 



CHO 



H— 
H- 



— OH 
-OH 



H— 



—OH 
CHjOH 



HO— 
H— 
H— 



— H 
—OH 
—OH 
CH,0H 



H- 

HO- 

H- 



CHO 
-OH 
-H 
-OH 

CH,0H 



HO- 
HO- 



CHO 
-H 
-H 



H— 



I. 



2. 



—OH 
CHjOH 

4. 



There are eight possible aldopentoses, that is four pairs of optical 
antipodes, and considering only the d forms there are four alternative 
formulae. 

The relevant facts are : — 

(i) Arabinose and ribose give the same osazone, hence their con- 
figuration must be identical except as regards the a-carbon atom. 
And arabinose and ribose must be (i and 2) or (3 and 4). 

(2) On oxidation arabinose gives an optically active dibasic acid ; 
ribose and xylose give optically inactive dibasic acids. Pentoses 2 
and 4 will give an optically active dibasic acid, from i and 3 the acids 
will be optically inactive. 

Hence arabinose is either 2 or 4, ribose and xylose are i and 3, 
lyxose is either 4 or 2. 

(3) When HCN is added to the pentose and a new asymmetric 
carbon atom introduced, and the compound is subsequently oxidised 
to a dibasic acid it is found that arabinose gives a mixture of two acids 
both of which are optically active, whereas lyxose gives a mixture of 
two acids, one active and one inactive. 

This can only happen in the case of 4 : — 



CHO 



Ha 

HO- 

H- 



-H 
-H 
OH 



H- 
HO- 



COOH 
-OH 
-H 



COOH 



HO— 
H— 



CHjOH 



and 



— H 
—OH 
COOH 

Active. 



HO— 

HO— 

HO— 

H- 



— H 
— H 
— H 
OH 



COOH 
Jjftactive, 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 37 



Accordingly lyxose has the constitution 4 so that arabinose is 2, 
ribose i, and by elimination xylose is 3. 

Proceeding from the pentoses to establish the formula of the 
hexoses we have : — 

(i) Arabinose gives rise by Kiliani's reaction (addition of HCN) to 
two hexoses, glucose and mannose : — 

CHO 



CHO 



HO— 
H— 
H— 



— H 
—OH 
—OH 
CHjOH 

2. 



H- 

HO- 

H- 

H- 



— OH 
— H 
—OH 
—OH 



HO- 
and HO- 



H— 
H 



CHO 
— H 
— H 
—OH 
OH 



CHjOH 
6. 



CHjOH 
5. 

Hence glucose must be either 5 or 6. 

(2) The same dibasic acid is produced on oxidation of glucose as 
from another hexose (gulose), viz. saccharic acid. This means that the 
configuration of each of the four asymmetric carbon atoms is the same 
and that, therefore, the difference between the two sugars is that their 
primary alcohol (CH^OH) and aldehydic groups are interchanged. 



CHO 



H- 

HO— 
H— 
H— 



OH 



H- 



COjH 
-OH 



— H 
—OH 
-OH 
CHjOH 



HO— 
H— 
H— 



— H 
—OH 
—OH 
CO,H 

2. 



H- 

HO- 

H- 

H- 



CHjOH 
-OH 
-H 
-OH 
-OH 



i.e. 



CHO 



HO- 
HO— 
H— 
HO— 



CHO 
-H 



— H 
—OH 
— H 
CHJOn 



In the case of 5 a new sugar 7 is formed by this process of inter- 
change : — 



CHO 



HO— 

HO— 
H— 
H- 



— H 
— H 
—OH 
-OH 



HO— 

HO— 

H— 

H— 



CO,H 



CH-OH 



— H 
H 
OH 



HO— 
HO- 



— OH 
CO,H 



H— I 
H— 



-ft 
H 



—OH 
—OH 
CHO 



I.e. 



HO- 
HO— 
H— 
H— 



CHO 
-H 



— H 
—OH 
—OH 
CH,OH 



CH.OH 

6. 8. 

In the case of 6 the same sugar 8 is formed by interchanging the groups. 

Accordingly, glucose is represented by formula 5, mannose by 
formula 6, and gulose by formula 7. An extension of the reasoning 
leads to the formulae for the other hexoses. 

A useful suggestion for the simplification of the symbols showing 
the sterical relationships of the sugars has been made by Wohl. In- 
stead of writing the whole formula vertically attention is confined to 
the H and OH groups on one side of the molecule (the right) only, and 
these are written down in order. If it is agreed to consider the alde- 
hyde group as being to the right of the formula when written horizon- 
tally, ^Aglucose is OH OH H OH. 

The following table shows all the possible tetrose, pentose, and 
hexose sugars derived from ^/-glucose, i.e. THE SUGARS OF THE d 
SERIES, according to Wohl's symbols ; — 



38 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



TABLE VI. 



Trioae. 


Tetroeet. 


Pentoaes. 


Hezotes. 






/OH OH OH 


/OH OH OH OH <i-allo8e 
\OHOHOH H (i-altrose 




f OH OH 


I <f-ribo8e 




<i-erythro8e 


OH OH H 


/OH OH H OH ^-glucose 
\OHOH H H <f.manno8e 


OH 




,<i-arabinose 


i-glycerose 


- 


rOH H OH 


/OH H OHOHZ-gulose 
OH H OH H /-idone 




OHH 


J /-xylose 
lOHH H 




V/-threo8e 


/OH H H OH ^/.galactose 
\0H H H H <2-ulose 






t d-\yxo9t 



The optical antipodes of these sugars — the /-series — are derived 
from /-glycerose or /-glucose and can be incorporated in a similar table. 

Wohl's work on glycerose has fortunately established that the 
nomenclature of the sugars as d and /, based originally by Fischer on 
their derivation from ^glucose, is equally the same when based on 
rf-glycerose. Consequently, in the above table the / symbols of threose, 
xylose, gulose and idose should properly become d. It is therefore 
proposed for the sake of uniformity to make the alteration in this edition. 

rf-Glycerose is happily both dextro-rotatory and genetically related 
to ^glucose. Since in it the only hydroxyl is to the right of the 

molecule, Wohl suggests the symbol ^for this position of the hydroxyl 

Accordingly, glucose is ddld aldohexose, and symbols can be given to 
the sugars which avoid the use of H and OH. Fischer originally used 
+ and - to denote the position of these groups and his nomenclature 

seems less likely to lead to confusion than the use of d and /. 

As the final result of the above considerations it can be stated that 
the ^and /nomenclature of the sugars is based on their relationship to 
d and / glycerose, that is on the configuration of the fifth carbon atom, 
and is irrespective of the direction of their optical rotatory power. 



Rotatory Powers of the a and fi forms of Sugars. 
Relation between Rotation and Configuration. 

Most of the carbohydrates exist in more than one form and show 
miitarotation. Before dealing with their numeric relationships a word 
is required as to the nomenclature of the derivatives of sugars of the 
dextro and laevo series. As proposed by Hudson in the case of a 
dextro sugar the a form is that which is most dextro-rotatory whereas 
for a laevo sugar the reverse is the case, the more laevo-rotatory (Le. less 
dextro-rotatory) modification being regarded as the a form. On this 
basis a-</-glucose becomes the optical antipode of a-/-glucose. 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 39 

Ordinary crystalline maltose is thus a )8-sugar ; crystalline fructose 
is a )8-sugar and not a-fructose as previously supposed. Natural xylose 
is considered to be genetically related to ^^glucose and not to /-glucose, 
as supposed by Fischer. 

According to van*t HofTs principle of optical superposition, as 
applied by Hudson, the molecular rotation of a sugar is essentially 
dependent on two factors: (i) the optical effect of the asymmetric 
systemcontaining the reducing group, and (2) the rotatory power of 
the remaining asymmetric system. If these factors are represented by 
A and B respectively : — 

a-glucose (M)d » 20,340 » + A + B, 
/S-glucose (M)d =» 3.430 = - A + B, 

whence by subtraction 2A = 16,900 and by addition 2B =■ 23,760. 

It is shown from the available data, firstly that the difference be- 
tween the molecular rotations of the a and /8 forms of the aldehyde 
sugars and their derivatives (2A) is a nearly constant quantity, and 
secondly that the a and /3 forms of those derivatives of any aldose sugar 
in which only the end carbon atom is affected have molecular rotations, 
the sum of which (2B) is equal to the sum for the a and fi forms of 
the aldoses. 

This method enables the calculation of the rotation of the unknown 
isomerides of many of the sugars and their derivatives and is proving 
of the utmost value in elucidating questions as to their structure, as 
will be illustrated hereinafter. 

Hudson has further shown that the mutarotating sugars have as a 
common property a measurable maximum rate of solution, which is 
caused by the slow establishment in solution of the equilibrium between 
the a and fi forms of the sugar ; those sugars, such as sucrose, trehalose, 
rafHnose, which do not reduce Fehling's solution or show mutarotation, 
do not exhibit this maximum rate of solution. 

Experimental evidence of the rotatory powers of those sugars for 
which both modifications have not yet been crystallised and measured 
directly has been obtained by measuring the maximum rate of solution, 
or the initial and final solubilities — e.g. for xylose, arabinose, lyxose, 
ribose, mannose, fructose, gluco-heptose, maltose, cellose. 



40 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

The results are summarised in the following table : — 

TABLE VII, — Rotatory Powbrs op thb MuTAKOTATtHo SuoAita. 





M. W. 


Fomub. 


SpeciScRoutiMid 


W«H. 


RoUliOD 
















.Form. 


CODItRot. 


pFonn. 


DiBeroue. 


d-Olueose . . . 


l8o 


c 


+ 113-4 


+ 3^ 'a 


+ 19 


+ 16,900 


d-GilaciOM 




iSo 


c 


+ »44-o 


+ 80-5 


4-5* 


4- 16,600 


<f-Muinose 




iSo 


c 


+ 34 


+ I4'6 


- 17 


4-9,180 


d-FnictoBc 




iSo 


c 


-n 




- '33 "3 




d-XyloK . 




150 


C 1 


+ 9a 


4- 19 


- eo 


4- 16,800 


<i.Ly«o«e . 




150 


C 1 


+ S'5 


- 14 


- 36 


+ 6,aao 


<f-Arabino>e 




150 


c , 


~5t 


- los 


- '75 


4- 18,100 


I-Rhamnose 




■64 


Q 


- ri 


+ 8-9 


+ M 


- 10,000 


B-Glucobeptoee 






c 


+ « 


- ao-4 


- a8-4 


4- 15.300 


Lactose 




34= 


C i„ 


+ 90-0 


+ 55*3 


+ 35 


4-18,800 


Maltose . 




34a 


c .,, 


+ J6S 


+ .36 


4-118 


4- iT.'oo 


MelibioM . 




342 


c 


+ 179 


+ 143-5 


+ 134 


+ 18,800 


CeUoK . 




34Z 


C.. _ u 


+ ?S 


+ 35 


+ 16 


4- i9,aoo 






Calculated vi 


ilues in iulics. 







In the last column are recorded the differences between the molecular 
rotations of the respective alpha and beta forms of each aldose. If the 
rotatory power of the end asymmetric carbon atom in these aldoses has 
the value + A for the o-sugar and - . » lor the fi form, and the rotation of 
the remainder of the structure is B, the molecular rotation of an o-sugar 
is A + B, and of its /3 form - A + B, and the difference of these values is 
2 A It is to be expected, on the view that the value of A is not influenced 
by changes in the configuration of the remainder of the molecule, that this 
difference 2A is a constant for all the aldoses. The last column shows 
that the theory is fairly well borne out except in the case of mannose, 
lyxose and rhamnose. Fructose is not considered, since it is a ketose and 
does not apply in the theory. The 'negative sign for the difference in the 
case of rhamnose is the result of the system of nomenclature for the 
a and forms and is due to the fact that rhamnose is an /-series sugar. 
Now the configurations of cZ-mannose, (^lyxose and /-rhamnose are 

H OH H OH OH H 



\/ 


OHCH 
OHCH 6 


\/ 


OHCH 1 
OHCH 6 


1 HCOH 
6 HCOH 


HC 1 


HC 1 


1 CH 


HCOH 


H,COH 


HOCH 


H,COH 




CH, 


d-MannoM. 


i-LyxoM. 


I-Rhamnose. 



and it will be observed that these configurations are identical (or anti- 
podal) from the 7-carbon atom upward. It appears probable, therefore, 
that the exceptional value of the difference for these sugars may be de- 
pendent upon this type of configuration. Since, however, a^lucoheptose 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 41 



has the same configuration from the 7-carbon upward, and nevertheless 
shows a molecular difference nearer, though not equal, to the average 
value for most of the aldoses, this possible connection between structure 
and exceptional rotation remains in some doubt In the case of closely 
related sugars, such as the four disaccharides, the agreement between 
theory and experiment is very good when it is recalled that it has been 
possible to make the measurements only by an indirect procedure. 

A comparison of the formulae of glucose, mannose, xylose, lyxose, 
which differ only in the configuration of the a-carbon atom and their 
molecular rotations has enabled Hudson to deduce the value of the 
molecular rotation of this carbon as + 4, 500 for glucose and xylose 
and - 4,500 for mannose and lyxose. 

The glycol glucosides may be quoted as examples of Hudson's 
second rule : — 

(M)d. 
a-Glucose 20,340 s A + B 
i8-Gluco8e 3f 420 = - A + B 
Sum 23,760 = 2B 

Glycol-o-glucoside 30,347 => A' + B 
Glycol-iBiglncMide 6,843 » - A' + B 
bu.. \ 23,504 = 2B 

whilst the monomethylglucoses afford a further example of the first 
rule: — 

Monomethyl-a-glucose 20,874 a A + B' 
Monomethyl-;S-gluco6e 4t733 = -A + B' 

Difference 16,141 = 2 A 

For glucose the difference is 16,900. 

The relative ease with which the isomeric fully acetylated deriva- 
tives are prepared and purified makes them especially suitable for 
testing the relation of rotation and constitution. The difference in 
the molecular rotations of the a- and /9-sugars should be a constant as 
is evidenced by the following figures : — 

TABLE VIII. 



Sabstaoce. 


Molecular Rotation 
of a form. 


Molecular Roution 
of fi form. 


Difference. 


<l-Gluco8e pentacetate . 
J-Lactose octacetate 
J-Maltose octacetate 
J-Cellose octacetate 
<2-Glucoeamine pentacetate 
<f-Chondro8amine pentacetate 
J-Gentiobiose octacetate 
ii^a-Glucoheptose hexacetate . 
ii-Mannoee pentacetate . 
<i-Galacto8e pentacetate . 
<i-XyIo8e tetracetate 
/-ArabinoBc tetraceUte . 




+ 39»6oo 
+ 36,500 
+ 83,000 
+ 27,800 
+ 36,400 
+ 39.500 
+ 35.500 
+ 40,200 
+ 21,400 
+ 41.600 
+ 28,300 
+ 13.400 


+ 1,500 

- 2,900 
+ 42,500 

- X0,200 

+ 470 
+ 4.100 

- 3,600 
+ 2,200 

- 9,800 
+ 8,900 

- 7,900 
+ 46,800 


+ 38,100 
+ 39.400 
+ 40,500 
+ 38,000 

+ 35,930 
+ 35.400 
+ 39,100 
+ 38,000 
+ 31,200 
+ 32,700 
+ 36,200 
- 33.400 



42 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

The sign and magnitude of the optical rotatory power enable a 
considerable insight to be gained into the structure of the molecule. 
For example, it is established in the case of twenty-four lactones of 
the monobasic sugar acids and eleven lactones of the saccharinic acids 
that polarised light is rotated to the right or to the left according as 
the butylene oxide ring on the 7-carbon is on the right or left of the 
configuration (when the formula is written with the acid group on top, 
as on p. 54). Accordingly, the configuration of the 7-carbon atom of 
any new lactone can at once be determined from its rotation. 

Similar deductions as to the configuration of the o^carbon atom 
may be made from the direction of rotation of the phenylhydrazide of 
the acid. If the phenylhydrazide rotates to the right the hydroxyl on 
the a-carbon atom is on the right, and vice versa. 

In gluconic acid, for example, there are four asymmetric carbon 

atoms, a, ^, 7, S, and the molecular rotation may be expressed as 

+ a, -/8, +7, +S, the + value indicating an hydroxyl on the right 

COOH 
• HCOH 
fi HOCH 
y HCOH 



Hci 



OH 
H,OH 



Hudson has deduced values for a, fi, 7 and S, by solving the four 
equations for the phenylhydrazides of gluconic, gulonic, idonic and 
galactonic acids, for which the rotations have been measured by Nef. 
He finds the comparative values ( x 10*) are — 

« + 37*3°. iS + 39''* 7 + 1*4% « - o'6^ 

showing that the value of a, the rotation of the a-carbon atom is so 
very much larger than the values oF the rotations of the other three 
carbons that its sign determines the direction of the rotation. 

The same rule holds good in the case of the amides of these acids, 
of which Weerman has measured the rotatory power. The specific 
rotations are small so that the calculation is only approximate, but it 
yields the following figures — 

which show once again that the direction of rotation is influenced by 
the or-carbon atom. 

Levene finds for the salts of the monobasic acids that the con- 



GLUCOSE (DEXTRO-GLUCOSE OR DEXTROSE) 43 

figuration of the a-carbon atom has a strong influence on the rotation. 
The values calculated from his observations are — 

a + 22% $ + la**, y + 12°, 8 - 4^ 

These are quite different from those found for the phenylhydrazides 
and amides, owing perhaps to the salts being lai^ely dissociated. It 
is evident further that the influence of the a-carbon is less than that 
of the sum of the other three carbons. 

Lastly, it may be mentioned that the benzylphenylhydrazones of 
the sugars rotate to the left when the asymmetric a-carbon atom of 
the configuration has its hydroxyl to the right, and vice versa. 

Enough has been said to show the large amount of certainty with 
which a part of the configuration formula of a sugar may be deduced 
from the optical rotation of its derivatives, and it is to be expected 
that the extension of these methods of investigation will go far to 
clear up the outstanding problems of structure both for the carbo- 
hydrates and other aliphatic hydroxy compounds. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES. 

Glucose, the other aldoses and the ketoses in general show a great 
tendency to become further oxidised ; this is evidenced by their activity 
as reducing agents. They reduce alkaline copper solutions on warming, 
forming red cuprous oxide, likewise ammoniacal silver solutions forming 
a metallic mirror. When heated with alkali, a sugar solution colours 
at first yellow, subsequently brown and finally decomposes ; a variety 
of substances, including lactic acid and other hydroxy acids, are formed 
Valuable analytical methods for the estimation of glucose are based on 
the reaction with copper salts in alkaline solution, but the precise changes 
which the sugar undergoes under these conditions are not completely 
understood. 

When carbohydrates are kept with alkali hydroxide at 37** the 
optical rotation of the solution decreases and the acidity increases. 
Sodium hydroxide exerts the greatest action, sodium carbonate being 
considerably weaker ; ammonia of the same strength is almost without 
action. 

The ketose sugars without exception are decomposed when their 
aqueous solutions are exposed in quartz tubes to sunlight Carbon 
monoxide is evolved and the corresponding alcohol containing one 
carbon atom less is formed. The aldose sugars are practically un- 
affected under these conditions. Exposure of the ketoses to the ultra 
violet light from a mercury lamp brings about the same decomposition, 
but other actions also take place involving the formation of hydrogen, 
methane, formaldehyde and non-volatile acids. The aldoses are de- 
composed in a similar manner to the ketoses by ultra violet rays but 
are less susceptible to attack. 



44 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 45 



Interconversion of Glucose, Fructose and Mannose. 

Glucose, fructose and mannose pass over into one another in aqueous 
solution in presence of alkalis. This most important transformation was 
first observed by Lobiy de Bruyn and Van Ekenstein ; it takes place 
slowly at ordinary temperatures, quickly and with much decomposition 
at higher temperatures. Starting from glucose, the optical rotation is 
observed to fall to about o"" ; considerably more fructose than mannose 
is formed in the final product. The change was rightly explained by 
Wohl as due to conversion into the enolic (unsaturated) form common 
to all three carbohydrates : — 



CHO 

I 

HCOH 



CHO 



HO 



OH 



HC 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 
Glucose. 



HOCH 
HC< 

Ha 



HOCH 

:oH 
:oH 



.(OH) 
Mannose. 



CH,(OH) 

CO 

HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

(iH,(OH) 
Fructoee. 



CH(OH) 

II 
COH 



HOCH 
Hi 
HC 
(!h,( 



OH 
OH 



CH(OH) 

l\o 

HOCH 
HC( 
HC< 



:0H 



:oH 



i(OH) 
Enolic form. 



J, 



IH,(OH) 

Ethylene 
oxide form. 



The sugar originally present is slowly transformed into enol ; this 
is reconverted into all three of the possible hexoses. It is to be sup- 
posed that the formation of enol from each one of the hexoses and the 
reverse changes all take place with different velocities ; the interchange 
is further complicated by secondary effects. 

For example, fructose can give rise to a second enolic form, and 
this will occasion the formation of other isomerides, e.g. glutose : — 



CH,(OH) 

do 

HOCH 

HCOH 

HCOH 

(1h(0H) 
Fructose. 


CH,(OH) 

COH 

1 
COH 

1 
HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 
Second Enolic form. 


CH,(OH) 
CH(OH) 
CO 

HCOH 

HCOH 

CH,(OH) 
Glutoee. 



which Lobry de Bruyn has isolated as a regular product of the trans- 
formation of glucose. The change is obviously exceedingly complicated. 
Prolonged action of the alkali or action at a high temperature leads to 
the formation of hydroxy acids. In pure aqueous solution glucose can 



46 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

be kept for years without alteration. This proves that there can be 
no enolic form present in the equilibrated mixture of a- and )9-glucose 
as is sometimes suggested. It is highly probable that the ethylene 
oxide form, rather than the unsaturated enolic form, is actually pre- 
sent in solution. 

The guanidine compounds of glucose, fructose and mannose show 
changes of rotatory power in aqueous solution due to the interconver- 
sion of the three hexoses brought about by the guanidine. The 
changes are very similar to those caused by alkalis, but fewer second- 
ary changes take place in the case of guanidine. 

Action of Alkalis. 

A very elaborate study of the action of alkalis on carbohydrates 
extending over ten years has been made by Nef. In consequence, a 
complete and relatively simple explanation can now be given of the 
behaviour of any carbohydrate in aqueous alkali hydroxides towards 
oxidising agents such as air, hydrogen peroxide or the oxides of mer- 
cury, silver and copper. In the course of this work a number of the 
sugar acids and their lactones, salts, etc., have been fully characterized. 

According to Nef any carbohydrate in weak alkaline solution 
undergoes profound change but is eventually transformed into an equili- 
brated mixture in which no less than one hundred and sixteen substances 
can in theory take part These are the thirty-two aldoses with one to 
six carbon atoms, the thirty-two corresponding methylenols, the twenty- 
six ketoses with three to six carbon atoms in an unbranched chain 
and the twenty-six dienols. Actually in practice only ninety-three 
different substances are formed, and in the absence of an oxidising 
agent the different sugars are converted into saccharinic acids. 

In the presence of air or other oxidising agents the oxidation of the 
sugars results in the formation of carbon dioxide, formic, glycollic, 
oxalic and dS^-glyceric acids, four trihydroxy butyric acids, eight tetra- 
hydroxy valeric acids, and eight tetrahydroxyhexoic acids, all of which 
have been isolated and identified. 

The unsaturated enols first formed show a tendency to undergo 
fission at the double bond, and by the spontaneous decomposition of 
the a^', fiy- and 7S-dienols, any hexose may yield (a) formaldehyde 
and aldopentoses, (^) diose and aldotetroses, and (f) ^C-glyceraldehyde. 

Taking glucose as a type the following products result : — 

(a) From glucose a/3-dienol -> formaldehyde and arabinose. 

(b) From glucose /3y-dienol -> diose and triose. 

(c) From glucose 78-dienol -> glyceraldehyde. 



e 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 47 

An example of transformation (a) which has been the most difficult 
to verify experimentally, is furnished by the formation of ^/-arabonic 
acid on oxidation of glucose in weak alkaline solution by air. 

When galactose is oxidised by a stream of air at 30*'-40° in presence 
of six equivalents of sodium hydroxide the products from 50 grammes 
of sugar were i "27 grammes of carbon dioxide, 1 2*8 grammes of formic 
acid and 41 grammes of non-volatile hydroxy acids. When hydrogen 
peroxide is the oxidising agent the quantity of the C5 acids is less but 
still exceeds the amount of the Q acids, whereas with Fehling^s solu- 
tion the reverse is the case. A resin is formed in varying amounts 
during oxidation ; it is considered that this is the explanation why 
the different sugars do not give exactly the same results by titration 
with Fehling's solution. 

When the amount of sodium hydroxide is diminished to 0*5 
equivalent or less the number of substances in the system after equili- 
brium has been attained is much smaller — thus only the six isomeric 
active sugars of the corresponding series are formed from glucose. 
The equilibrium is limited and the various dienols do not decompose 
under these conditions into aldoses according to fission (a) above. 

The relative quantities of the sugars obtained are strikingly 
different, whilst ketoses are only enolised in quite definite directions, 
i.e. only certain preferred olefine dienols are formed and not all those 
theoretically possible. For example, from glucose and ^ equivalent 
of calcium hydroxide, aldoses and ketoses are formed in approxinrately 
equal quantities, whilst the aldoses consist of glucose and mannose in 
the ratio of 5 : 1. In the case of galactose only the a^ and ^7-dienols 
are formed and galactose comprises 90 per cent, of the aldoses. 
Arabinose or xylose yield the corresponding three active pentoses. 

In the case of all carbohydrates salt formation with the alkali 
hydroxide takes place at the carbon atom next the carbonyl group 
CH(OH) . CH(OM) . CO. The methylene derivative CH(OH) . C . CO 
forms first glycide and then ortAo-osone, CHj . CO. CO, from which by 
the benzilic acid transformation saccharinic acids are formed. In the 
presence of an oxidising agent the i : 2 osone, CH(OH) . CO . CO, is 
formed To avoid further changes ortAa-osone formation must be 
effected in neutral or faintly acid solution, the best reagent being lead 
hydroxide or chloride or basic acetate. 

Both resins and polysaccharides are formed when a sugar solution 
is kept or warmed in contact with very dilute alkali hydroxide or 
carbonate. The polysaccharides s}mthesized belong to two classes 
according to the ease with which they are hydrolysed by acids. 



48 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Nef s investigations give an explanation of the quantitative differ- 
ences in the behaviour of the various sugars towards Fehling's solution. 



Saccharinic Acids. 

The saccharinic acids are formed from the hexoses by the action 
of concentrated alkali hydroxide. Twenty-four isomeric acids with 
six carbon atoms are theoretically possible, viz. : — 

(i) Eight stereoisomeric metasaccharinic acids, 

CH^OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH, . CH(OH) . CO.H 

derived from the sixteen aldohexoses. 

(2) Four isosaccharinic acids derived from the eight ketoses, 

.co.H 



CHg(OH) . CH(OH) . CH, . C(OH) 






CHjGH 

(3) Eight saccharinic acids — 

yCO.H 
CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . C(OH)<f ^ 

\CH, 

(4) Four parasaccharinic acids — 

/CO,H 
CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . C{OH)Q 

\CH,.CH,(OH) 

The lactones of these acids are termed saccharins. Nef has very 
carefully studied these substances : their fuller treatment lies outside 
the scope of this monograph. 

Since lactic acid and various hydroxy acids result from the action 
of alkalis on glucose, the action of ammonia might cause the formation 
of alanine or other amino acids. Windaus and Knoop, in investigat- 
ing this point, find that the strongly dissociated zinc hydroxide ammonia 
acts on glucose even in the cold, producing methyl glyoxaline, a closed- 
ring compound containing nitrogen. Amino acids are not formed. To 
explain this transformation, it is assumed that glyceric aldehyde is 
first formed, which passes into methyl glyoxal ; this in its turn is acted 
upon by ammonia and formaldehyde to give methyl glyoxaline : — 

CHj.C.NHv 
CH, . CO . CHO + 2NH, + HCHO = || \cH 

CH.N-^ 

Windaus finds that the reaction is not confined to glucose, but that the 
same methyl glyoxaline is yielded by mannose, fructose, sorbose, 
arabinose, xylose and rhamnose, or by the disaccharide lactose. 

The formation of the glyoxaline nucleus from the sugars is of con- 
siderable interest in view of the important place this holds among 
natural products Thus it is present in ergot, in pilocarpine and in 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 4$ 

the purines. Further, by condensation of methylglyoxaline with 
glycine and simultaneous oxidation, histidine is formed. 



Interaction with Phenyl Hydrazine. 

Particularly characteristic is the behaviour of the sugars with ex- 
cess of phenyl hydrazine on heating in dilute acetic acid solution. An 
orange-yellow insoluble phenyl osazone is formed, which serves to 
characterise glucose even when present only in very small quantities, 
though not to distinguish it from some of the isomeric hexoses which 
give the same or closely related phenyl osazones. The use of phenyl 
hydrazine possesses further a historical interest, as in the hands of 
Emil Fischer it served as one of the chief aids in the elucidation of the 
chemistry of the carbohydrates. 

Glucose and phenyl hydrazine interact in acid solution, acetic acid 
being usually employed, in two stages. In the first, which takes place 
in cold solution, a phenyl hydrazone is formed : — 

CeHiaOe + C^H^ . NH . NHj = CBH,iOg . CH : N . NH . CeH^ + H,0 

This is a coFourless compound, soluble in water, existing in two 
modifications, one or other of which is obtained according to the method 
of preparation. 

Skraup's )8-phenyl hydrazone, formed by shaking glucose with 
phenyl hydrazine in alcoholic solution, crystallises in needles, m.p. 
1 06°- 1 07°, and has an optical rotation in aqueous solution of [a]^ - 2** 
changing to - 50°. Fischer's a-isomeride, formed in alcoholic acetic 
acid solution, crystallises in leaflets, m.p. 1 59''-i6o°, [a]o - 70° changing 
to - 50*". Behrend has shown Skraup's )8-isomeride to be in reality a 
compound of phenyl hydrazine (i mol.) with 2 molecules of the fi- 
hydrazone. This hydrazone also forms an additive compound with 
pyridine which, on treatment with alcohol, yields glucose /3-phenyl hy- 
drazone, m.p. I40**-I4i°, [ajo - 5'S^ Behrend has advanced evidence to 
show that this is a true hydrazone, 

CHj(OH) . [CH(OH)]^ . CH : N . NHPh, 

whereas Fischer's glucose a-phenyl hydrazone is a hydrazide : — 

CHj(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH(OH)], . CH . NH . NHPh 

It should be capable of existing in two stereoisomeric forms (cp. p. 33). 

The phenyl hydrazones of glucose and most of the other sugars, 

being easily soluble, are not adapted for characterising the parent sugars. 

An exception is afforded by mannose, which forms an almost insoluble 

4 



50 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



phenyl hydrazone and can thus be very readily detected. This com- 
pound affords a striking illustration of the influence exercised by the 
configuration of the molecule on its physical properties. Sparingly 
soluble phenyl hydrazones are also formed by the methyl pentoses. 

Asymmetrically disubstituted hydrazines of the type, NHj . NR . 
C^Hj, such as methylphenyl, benzylphenyl or diphenyl hydrazines, also 
react with the sugars, and some of these hydrazones are sparingly soluble 
and are characteristic of a particular sugar. Many of them are in- 
cluded in the following Table IX. In some instances two forms of the 
hydrazone have been described. 

Thus the methylphenyl hydrazone is characteristic of galactose and 
the diphenyl hydrazone of arabinose. The influence of the position of 
the OH groups on the physical properties is even more marked in the 
case of the dihydrazones formed with diphenylmethane dimethyl dihy- 
drazine, CH2[C^H4NMe. NHj], (Braun). Hydrazones are only pro- 
duced when at least two or three of the hydroxyl groups attached to 
the carbon atoms immediately adjacent to the aldehydic group have 
the same spatial configuration. Thus, rhodeose, fucose, mannose, 
galactose, ribose, lyxose, arabinose, and rhamnose give hydrazones 
with this reagent, whilst isorhodeose, glucose, and xylose do not. It 
is suggested that the reagent may be useful in deciding questions of 
configuration of the aldoses in view of this peculiarity. 



TABLE IX. — Mbltino-poxnts 


OF Sugar Hydrazones and Osazonbs 


• 




Arabinose. 


Glucow. 


Mannose. 


Galactose. 


Maltose. 


» 

Lactose. 


Hydrauones, 














Phenyl hydrazone 


isi^-iss" 


1 144^-1 j6«; 


l86°-l88^ 


158'' 


— 


— 


/-Bromophenyl hydrazone . 


I50» 


aoSO-aio" 


168^ 


— 




a-Methylphenyl hydrazone . 


i6i° 


ISO*' 


178° 


180° 


— 


— 


a-Ethylphenyl hydrazone . 


153" 


— 


^59! 


169** 


«BM^ 


— 


a-Amylphenyl hydrazone . 


120*^ 


128'' 


^K 


116° 





123° 


a-Allylphenyl hydrazone . 


^< 


'55! 


^iK 


'57^ 





132' 


a-Benzoylphenyl hydrazone 


170° 


'^5: 


1650 


'5< 





I28*» 


Diphenyl hydrazone . 


218'' 


161** 


^55! 


157** 





— 


jS-Naphthyl hydrazone 


141° 


"""" 


157° 


i67*» 


176° 


203« 


OsaMones, 


• 












Phenyl osazone . 


t6o° 


208" 


208" 


193* 


206** 


200" 


^-Bromophenyl osazone 


i96'-200° 


222*» 


— 


— 


198*' 


— 


/-Nitrophenyl osazone 




257'' 


~ 




261' 


258' 



To prepare the phenyl osazone, glucose is heated with a considerable 
excess of phenyl hydrazine^ (3-4 mols.) and acetic acid, the vessel being 

^ It is important that the phenyl hydrazine should be almost colourless and free from 
oxidation products. 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 51 



immersed in rapidly boiling water for an hour or more, when the in- 
soluble osazone separates : it is best purified by crystallisation from a 
dilute solution of pyridine. The excess of phenyl hydrazine acts as 
an oxidising agent towards the phenyl hydrazone, converting the 
penultimate - CH(OH) group into - CO and being itself reduced to 
aniline and ammonia. The CO group so formed interacts with a 
further molecule of phenyl hydrazine to form the osazone : — 



CHO 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Aldose 



CH : N . NHPh 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CHj(OH) 
Hydrazone — 



CH : N . NHPh 

do 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CHa(OH) 
Oxidation product 



CH:N.NHPh 

C:N.NHPh 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Osazone 



Glucose, mannose and fructose yield the same phenyl osazone, 
since the asymmetry of the a-carbon atom is destroyed in its formation. 
The osazones of the different sugars are as a class very similar in pro- 
perties, those formed by the disaccharides being distinguished by their 
greater solubility in boiling water. The melting-points of the osazones 
depend very largely on the rate of heating and on the method of puri- 
fication adopted, and too much dependence is not to be placed on them 
in identifying unknown sugars. Fischer, for example, states that care- 
fully purified glucosazone heated rapidly in a narrow capillary tube be- 
gins to melt at 208** (corrected), and completely melts at this temperature 
with decomposition if the source of heat be withdrawn. When heating 
is continued at the same rate the thermometer rises to 213° before the 
glucosazone completely melts. When the heating is slower the sub- 
stance begio^ to sinter and melt at I95^ In the case of the disacchar- 
ides, where the purification of the osazone is more difficult, the 
determination of the exact melting-point is even less reliable. 

The asymmetrically disubstituted hydrazines do not form osazones 
with glucose on account of their being unable to act as oxidising agents. 
Fructose is more easily attacked by them, probably in consequence of 
the presence of the CH2(OH). CO group, and yields a methylphenyl 
osazone. 

It is often a matter of considerable difficulty to obtain a carbohyd- 
rate in a pure state from solutions which may also contain inorganic 
salts or nitrogenous substances. One of the methods adopted is to 
isolate the phenyl hydrazone, purify this by crystallisation, and decom- 
pose it into sugar and phenyl hydrazine. Fischer originally used fuming 

4* 



52 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

hydrochloric acid to effect the decomposition. Benzaldehyde was sub- 
stituted for this by Herzfeld ; the phenyl hydrazone is boiled in water 
with a slight excess of benzaldehyde, and the phenyl hydrazine removed 
from solution as insoluble benzaldehyde phenyl hydrazone, 

CeHijOj : N . NHPh + CgHj . CHO = CeHuOj + CgHgCH : N . NHPh. 

This method was repeatedly adopted with success by Fischer, but it 
gives less satisfactory results with the disubstituted hydrazones, in which 
case formaldehyde may with advantage be substituted for benzaldehyde, 
as suggested by Ruff and OUendorf The hydrazone is dissolved in 
dilute formaldehyde and heated at the temperature of the water bath, 
QHi^O^ : N . NRR' + HCHO = QH^A + H . CH : N . NRR'. The 
excess of formaldehyde is removed and the pure sugar solution concen- 
trated in a vacuum. 

Fuming hydrochloric acid acts on the osazone in the same manner 
as it does on the hydrazone, eliminating in this instance both hydrazine 
groups to form an osone : — 

CH;N.NHPh HCl, HaO CHO HCl.H^.NHPh 



C : N . NHPh HCl. H,0 CO 

i. . _ 

CH(OH) . C 

i 



HCl, HjO CO HCl . H,N .NHPh 

H(OH) CH(OH) 

^ J 

H(0H) . CH(OH) 



H(OH) CH{OH) 

CHj(OH) CHj(OH) 

Phenyl osazone. Osone. 

Glucose, mannose and fructose, which form the same phenyl osazone, 
likewise form the same osone. These osones are colourless syrups ; 
they act as strong reducing agents, and combine directly with phenyl 
hydrazine or with disubstituted phenyl hydrazines forming osazones. 
The osones combine also with (;-phenylene diamine. They are not 
fermentable. On reduction glucosone is converted into fructose. This 
is the only method available of regenerating a sugar from the phenyl 
osazone. When the sugar originally used was an aldose the correspond- 
ing ketose results. The method is of great historical interest, as by its 
aid Fischer established the nature of the synthetical a-acrose. The 
osazones of the disaccharides are hydrolysed by acids to hexose, 
hexosone and phenylhydrazine — 

C«H„0, . O . C.Hio04(NjHPh), + 2HCI + ^Hfi 
= CeH„0, + CeHioOe + 2NH2 . NHPh . HCl 
Hexose. Hexosone. 

— and Fischer's hydrochloric acid method is thus not available for the 
conversion into osone. Since, however, the osazones of the disac- 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 53 

charides are soluble in boiling water, it is possible to remove the phenyl 
hydrazine residues by means of benzaldehyde (Fischer and Armstrong), 
and SO obtain the osones — 

CeHiiO, . O . CHj . [CH . OH], . CO . CHO 

These osones are similar to glucosone in properties : they are hydro- 
lysed by enzymes in the same way as the parent disaccharides. 

Reduction. • 

When reduced with sodium amalgam, glucose and its isomcrides 
form the corresponding hexahydric alcohols, two hydrogen atoms 
being added to the hexose. Sorbitol is formed from glucose, mannitol 
from mannose, and dulcitol from galactose. Fructose yields a mixture 
of the two alcohols, sorbitol and mannitol, since a new asymmetric 
carbon atom is formed from the ketonic radicle. These alcohols 
have the following configuration formulae : — 



CH, . OH 

HC.OH 

HO.CH 

HC.OH 

HC.OH 

CH, . OH 
Sorbitol. 


CH,.OH 

HO.CH 

HO . CH 

HC.OH 

HC.OH 

CH, . OH 
Mannitol. 


CH, . OH 
HC.OH 

HO.CH 

1 


HO.CH 

HC.OH 

CH, . OH 
Dulcitol. 



All three alcohols occur in plants, mannitol being widely distributed. 
In the fungi and some other orders mannitol exceeds glucose in quan- 
tity, or even replaces it None of the alcohols are fermented by 
yeasts ; mannitol, however, is a product of some bacterial fermenta- 
tions, and is attacked by many moulds and bacteria. Dulcitol, no 
doubt on account of the difference in configuration, is in general far 
more resistant to bacterial attack. 

All these alcohols are sweet, well-crystallised compounds quite 
soluble in water and alcohol. They form hexacetyl, hexabenzoyl, 
and explosive hexanitro derivatives, also compounds with acetone 
and benzaldehyde. 

Their configuration is discussed in detail in the next chapter. 



54 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Oxidation. 

Glucose on oxidation gives rise to three acids containing the same 
number of carbon atoms ; two of these acids are monobasic, the third 
is dibasic. Their structure is as follows : — 



CHO 


CO,H 


CHO 


COaH 


(CH . OH)4 
CH,OH 

Glucose. 


(CH . OH)^ 
CHjGH 
Gluconic acid. 


(CH . 0H)4 
COjH 
Glucivonic acid. 


(CH . OH)^ 
C0,H 
Saccharic acid. 



In gluconic acid the aldehyde group of glucose is oxidised to carboxyl : 
it is conveniently prepared by the action of bromine on glucose. 
Gluconic acid in solution very readily passe3 over into a 7-lactone, the 
change, which is accompanied by an alteration in rotatory power, being 
a reversible one. The reaction is not complete, but continues until an 
equilibrium between acid and lactone is reached. Mannose and other 
aldoses form mannonic acid and similar acids corresponding to gluconic 
acid 

As pointed out by Hudson these 7-lactones, like the aldose sugars 
and their glucosidic derivatives, all of which have a butylene-oxide 
structure, exhibit strong optical rotatory power, whereas the corres- 
ponding alcohols and acids, which are open-chain compounds, are but 
slightly active. The rotatory power is evidently connected with the 
butylene-oxide constitution, and the sign of the rotation must depend 
on the position of the ring, which is in turn dependent on the position 
of the hydroxyl group attached to the 7-carbon atom before the ring 
was produced. According to Hudson the dextro-rotatory lactones 
have the ring on one side of the structure, whilst the laevd-rotatory 
lactones have rings on the other side as is illustrated by the lactones 
of gluconic and galactonic acids. 



HO 





,OH CHjOH 

Gluconic lactone. Galactonic lactone. 

Wd + 68^ [a]D •- rof- 

The theory has been extended to the determination of the constitu- 
tion of lactones of unknown structure. It does not apply to the aldoses 
themselves or to the glucosides. 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 55 

Whereas most of the monobasic sugar acids form y-lactones, 
^mannonic acid is remarkable in that when liberated from its salts 
at the ordinary temperature it changes almost entirely into a j8- 
lactone. 

CHj(OH) . (CH . OH)j . CH . CH(OH) . CO 

To obtain the ry-lactone it is necessary to evaporate a solution of 
the acid or of the /^-lactone to dryness, preferably in presence of a 
little hydrochloric acid. The /^-lactone rapidly undergoes spontaneous 
conversion into the parent acid in aqueous solution and is much less 
stable than the 7-lactone. Similarly, gluconic acid yields both a p- and 
a 7-lactone, and Nef claims that bimolecular o-lactones are also formed 
by the hydroxy acids. . 

The behaviour of the methylated mannonic acids lends no support 
to the idea that a-lactones are readily formed. Thus Irvine and 
Paterson have shown that the acid 

CH,(OMc) . CH(OMe) . CH(OH) . [CH . OMe], . CO,H 

forms a lactone whereas 

CHj(OMe) . (CH . OMe), . CH(OH) . CO,H 

could not be converted into any such derivative. 

The rate of action of bromine water on the aldoses is influenced 
considerably by their configuration : galactose, for example, is much 
more rapidly oxidised than glucose. (Votocek and NSmeifek.) 

An important property of gluconic and similar acids, and one which 
has been of the utmost value in effecting the synthesis of the sugars, 
is their behaviour on heating with quinoline or pyridine. It is well 
known that in most substances containing an asymmetric carbon atom, 
rearrangement takes place, when they are heated, so as to form the 
corresponding antimere mixed with the original substance. When 
gluconic acid is heated with quinoline or pyridine at 130°-! 50** it is 
partially converted into mannonic acid The rearrangement is appar- 
ently restricted to the groups attached to the a-carbon atom, as is the 
case in the transformation of glucose to mannose by alkalis. It is 
reversible, mannonic acid being converted into gluconic acid : — 

COaH CO,H 

H . C . OH > HO . C . H 

(CH . OH), ^^ (CH . OH), 

CHjOH CHjOH 

<2-Gluconic acid. <{- Mannonic acid. 

Similarly, ^-galactonic and ^/-talonic acid are mutually interconvertible. 

Saccharic acid is formed by the action of nitric acid on glucose ; 

it forms a sparingly soluble acid potassium salt, which serves as a 



56 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

test for glucose. Saccharic acid is also produced from sucrose, raffinose, 
trehalose, dextrin and starch, all of which contain glucose. On the 
other hand, mucic acid — the corresponding oxidation product of 
galactose — is produced by the action of nitric acid on galactose, 
dukitol, lactose, melibiose and the gums. 

Free saccharic acid is crystalline; in solution it passes into the 
monobasic 7-lactonic acid until equilibrium is attained, the rotatory 
power rising from 97° to 22 '5^ The lactone crystallises in leaflets : 
in solution the rotation falls from 38° to 22** as it is converted into the 
free acid. 

Mucic acid has a sandy crystalline structure and is optically in- 
active. When distilled alone pyromucic acid (furfurane-a-carboxylic 
acid) is formed. Heating with hydrobromic acid converts it into de- 
hydromucic acid (furfurane-aa -di-carboxylic acid). 

Glucuronic Acid.^ — Physiologically the most interesting oxidation 
product of glucose is glucuronic acid, which is frequently found in the 
urine, combined with a variety of substances, forming compounds of 
glucosidic nature. Normally glucose is rapidly oxidised in the animal 
organism to carbon dioxide and water. When certain substances, 
such as chloral or camphor, which are oxidised in the body only with 
difficulty, are brought into the system, the organism has the power of 
combining them with glucose to form glucosides. In such compounds 
one end of the glucose molecule is shielded from attack, but oxidation 
takes place at the other extremity of the molecule, and a glucuronic 
acid derivative is formed. They are excreted in the urine. The 
faculty of removing injurious substances from circulation in combination 
with glucose seems to be common to both the animal and the vegetable 
kingdom, and the glucosides in the plant may be compared to the 
glucuronic acid derivatives in the animal. The glucuronates behave 
like glucosides, and form glucuronic acid when hydrolysed by mineral 
acids. The glucuronate most commonly employed for the preparation 
of the acid is euxanthic acid, a substance obtained in India from the 
urine of cows which have been fed with mango leaves. Euxanthic 
acid is very readily hydrolysed by dilute acids and breaks down into 
euxanthon, i.e. 2 : 8-hydroxyxanthone and glucuronic acid — 

CwHjaOji = C„H804 + CfHioOf 

A vast number of substances when introduced into the organism 
are excreted in the urine as " paired '* glucuronic acid compounds. 
Almost every organic group yields an example. The most important 
are included in the following list : — 

^ Also written Glycuronic acid. 



chloral 


benzene 


turpentine oil 


butylchloral 


nitrobenzene 


camphor 


bromal 


aniline 


borneol 


dichloracetone 


phenol 


menthol 




resorcinol 


pinene 




thymol 


antipyrine 




a- and /9-naphthol 


etc. 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 57 

isopropyl alcohol 
methylpropyl carbinol 
methylhexyl carbinol 
tertiary butyl alcohol 
tertiary amyl alcohol 
pinacone 

As the formula indicates, glucuronic acid is the first reduction product 
of saccharic acid, and it was obtained in this way by Fischer and Piloty 
from saccharic acid lactone. Glucuronic acid forms a lactone which 
crystallises well. The paired acids are laevo-rotatory. 

Since aniline dyes have almost entirely displaced euxanthic acid 
from the market the latter has become very scarce. A convenient 
source of glucuronic acid has been found in the menthol compound 
obtained in the urine of rabbits after administration of menthol. The 
urine is extracted with ether and ammonia added, when the ammonium 
salt separates (Neuberg). 

According to Neuberg glucuronic acid or an isomeride is produced 
in small quantity when glucose is oxidised by nitric acid for the pre- 
paration of saccharic acid. 

An interesting derivative of glucuronic acid is produced according 
to Sieburg on the administration of nitroso-phenylhydroxylamine to a 
dog. The new crystalline compound is decomposed by emulsin into 
its two components and is considered to be the lactam of /-amino- 
phenolglucuronic acid. 

The administration of chloralose leads to the excretion of a paired 
chloralose glucuronic acid from which chloralose and glucuronic acid 
were the only products obtained on hydrolysis (TifTeneau). 

Galacturonic Acid. 

Saurez has isolated an isomeric form of glucuronic acid from lemon 
pulp. It gives many of the reactions of glucuronic acid but does not 
form a/-bromophenylhydrazone nor yield glucuronic anhydride; on 
oxidation it gives mucic acid. 

A similar galacturonic acid has been discovered by Ehrlich in the 
pectin substances from the sugar beet On heating pectic acid with 
I per cent, of oxalic acid, galactose galacturonic acid is obtained. 
Treatment of pectic acid with alkali leads to the formation of an 
amorphous white powder (a)o — + 270", Cj^H^Oj^, which Ehrlich 
regards as a tetragalacturonic acid, viz. 4C^ll^fij - sHfi. 

This gives all the reactions of the pentoses and of glucuronic acid 
except that on oxidation it forms mucic acid ; ^-galacturonic acid is a 
feebly dextro-rotatory syrup, reducing Fehling's solution in the cold, 



58 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

giving furfural with hydrochloric acid and readily undergoing oxida- 
tion to mucic acid. 

Pectin substances obtained from a large number of plants and 
vegetables have all been shown to be derivatives of this acid, and it 
must be regarded as playing an important part in the structure of 
plant material. The presence of galactose in this oxidised form in 
plants is of the greatest interest. Glucuronic acid is said to have 
been found in the sugar beet, but in view of the above it was probably 
mistaken for galacturonic acid. 

Synthesis and Deg:radation. 

The methods devised in the laboratory for the formation of carbo- 
hydrates containing a greater or lesser number of carbon atoms than 
six in the chain are of interest 

The aldoses combine directly with hydrogen cyanide forming 
nitriles ; these, when hydrolysed, give rise to acids containing one 
carbon atom more than the original ca. . Jrate. 

C.H„0, . CHO + HCN = C,Hi.O, . CH(OH) . CN -> , 
CgHiiOg . CH(OH) . COjH -> C^HaOg . CH(OH) . CHO 

The lactones of these acids, when reduced with sodium amalgam, 
yield the corresponding aldoses with one carbon atom more than the 
original carbohydrate. 

In this manner glucose can be obtained from arablnose, glucohep- 
tose from glucose. The process has been continued by Fischer as far 
as the aldononoses in the case of glucose and mannose ; Philippe has 
prepared glucodecose. It would be possible by such a method to 
advance step by step from formaldehyde to the highest sugars, but the 
operation would demand the expenditure of very large quantities of 
material. 

The cyanohydrin synthesis, however, is not in reality so simple 
as just pictured, inasmuch as usually two stereoisomeric nitriles are 
formed simultaneously. Arabinose gives both glucose and mannose ; 
glucose yields two glucohcptoses. On the basis of the aldehydic 
formula for glucose a new asymmetric carbon atom is created in the 
nitrile, and, according to the ordinary rules, two forms will be pro- 
duced unless the synthesis is asymmetric in character. Mannose and 
fructose afford the only instances at present recorded in which only 
one nitrile is formed. 

An alternative view of the synthesis, based on the closed-ring 
formula, considers the two nitriles as formed simultaneously from a- 
and ^-glucoses by a process involving first the rupture of the butylene- 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 59 



oxide ring, and secondly the addition of hydrogen cyanide. The 
presence of a- and /8-glucose in unequal proportions and the probable 
difference in the rate of formation of the addition product in the two 
cases will explain the formation of the isomeric nitriles in unequal 
proportions. Arabinose gives rise to a preponderance of laevo-rotatory 
mannonic acid, whereas from xylose and lyxose the predominating 
acids are laevo-rotatory. The various stages of the operation are 
formulated below in the case of the a-derivative — 

CO,H 



HO 




HO— C— H 
HCOH 



HO 



\ 
HC 



OH 



Hydrolysis 



HC.OH 






HOCH 

ndoH 

HOCH 

\ 
HCOH 



.i 



HCOH 



:h, • OH 

^(t[ iQlucose nitrile 



CH,OH 
a-Glucoheptonic acid. 



CHO 



HO.CH 



HC.OH 



Reduction 



HO.CH 



OH 



I. 

CHj. 



HC.OH 



HC.OH 



OH 



Lactone of a-Glucoheptonic acid. a-Glucoheptose, aldehyde formala. 

The degradation of a sugar, i.e. the conversion into one with fewer 
carbon atoms, has been studied by four experimental methods. In 
that of Wohl the oxime of glucose is heated with concentrated sodium 
hydroxide and converted into the nitrile of gluconic acid, from which, 
on further heating, hydrogen cyanide is eliminated and a pentose — rf- 
arabinose — formed. The following scheme shows the changes : — 



CHO 

i 



I 



H(0H) 



CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(0H) 
Qlucoee. 



CH : N . OH 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(0H) 
Oxime, 



CN + H,0 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH^(OH) 
NitrUc. 



HCN 

CHO 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH(OH) 

CH,(OH) 
Arabinose. 



6o THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



In practice it is preferable to heat the oxime with acetic anhydride 
and a grain of zinc chloride : a vigorous reaction ensues, and the pent- 
acetate of gluconic acid nitrile is formed from which hydrogen cyanide 
is eliminated by treatment with ammoniacal silver oxide. 

The alternative method due to Ruff makes use of Fenton's mode 
of oxidation with hydrogen peroxide and ferrous salts. The aldose 
is first converted into aldonic acid, the calcium salt of which is sub- 
jected to oxidation, with the result that the carboxyl group is eliminated 
and the pentose formed. 

I 

CH(OH) 

C] 



CHO 
CH(OH) 
CH(OH) 
CH{OH) 

C 



H(OH) 



H(OH) 



CH(OH) 

I 



CO, + H,0 

CHO 

CH(OH) 

C] 
I 



^H(OH) 



CH,(OH) 
Aldohexose. 



CH(OH) 

CHj(OH) 
Aldopentose. 



CH(OH) 

CHj(OH) 
Aldonic acid. 

Neuberg has made use of an electrolytic method : the aldose is 
converted into the corresponding acid, the copper salt of which is then 
electrolysed between platinum electrodes. Gluconic acid is in this 
manner converted into ^arabinose and all the steps in the complete 
degradation to formaldehyde may be traversed. The process has been 
carried out with a number of sugars, including melibiose, from which 
a sugar with eleven carbon atoms has been obtained. 

Either of these methods is equally applicable to the conversion of 
a pentose into a tetrose, and by them it would be possible to pass 
from glucose to formaldehyde. 

According to Guebert, mercuric gluconate when heated undergoes 
intramolecular oxidation, forming ^arabinose in satisfactory quantity. 
Tollens and Boddener find, however, that this method is not applicable 
to the degradation of arabinose. 

Weerman has contributed a new and apparently very useful 
method of degradation of the. monosaccharides. Taking glucose- 
arabinose as a case in point, ^-gluconamide is produced by saturating 
an alcoholic solution of gluconolactone with ammonia, and this is 
treated with hypochlorous acid, when the following change occurs 
(analogous to the Hofmann reaction with hypobromite) : — 

R . CH(OH) . CO . NH, r> R. CH(OH) . N : C : O -> R.CHO 

In this way a 50 per cent, yield of ^-arabinose was obtained. 

The method has also been applied successfully to the transforma- 
tion of d-galactose to ^lyxose, /-mannose to /-arabinose, and /-arabi- 
nose to /-erythrose. 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 6i 

The Aminohexoses. 

Four isomeric aminoglucoses are known, viz. : — 

glucosamine » 2-aminoglucose 
glucosimine => i-aminoglucose 
isoglucosamine » i-aminofructose 
€-glucosamine = 6-aminoglucose 
In addition, the corresponding 2-amino derivatives of other hexoses 
have been synthesised from the pentoses, and one of these, chondros- 
amine, occurs naturally. 

ChitosaAine (^-Glucosamine). 

Glucosamine, or aminoglucose, is of interest as being the first 
well-defined carbohydrate compound isolated from an animal tissue 
(Ledderhose, 1 878). It is obtained by boiling the shells of lobsters, 
particularly the claws, with concentrated hydrochloric acid. The 
glucosamine hydrochloride so formed is a colourless crystalline com- 
pound. Lobster shell consists of carbonate of lime and a substance 
termed chitin, which yields acetic acid and glucosamine on hydrolysis. 
Chitin is stated by Offer to be a monacetyl diglucosamine ; more 
recently Irvine has established the identity of the chitins derived from 
various invertebrate animal structures. He considers chitin to con- 
tain acetylamino-glucose and amino-glucose residues in the proportion 
of three to one, in agreement with the formula (CjoHgoOi^NJ^. 

Glucosamine was obtained by Winterstein from fungus cellulose ; 
indeed chitin seems to be the most important cell-wall material of the 
fungi. 

The glucosamine in Boletus edulis is considered by Ross to pre- 
exist as a glucoprotein and not as a glucoside. Two glucosamine 
residues are said to be present in lycoperdin isolated from the fungus 
Lycoperdum gemmatum. Glucosamine is a constituent of the mucins 
and mucoids. 

Irvine considers that it is still an open question whether glucosamine 
is derived from glucose or mannose, though he inclines to glucose. 
Levene's work on the synthetic amino-sugars makes the mannose for- 
mula much more probable. As aminoglucose it has the formula : — 

H H OHH 
CHoOH. C . C . C . C . CHO 
OH OH H NHj 

which is more properly written in the pentaphane ring form, 

CH,(0H) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(NH,) . CH(OH) 

I O — I 1 



62 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Glucosamine is prepared from the hydrochloride by decomposing 
it with diethylamine (Breuer) or sodium methoxide (Lobry de Bruyn). 
It derives special interest from the fact that it may be regarded as a 
link between the carbohydrates and a-hydroxyamino acids. The 
synthesis of glucosamine, by Fischer and Leuchs, which at the same 
time established its constitution, thus becomes of enhanced import- 
ance. By the combination of ^arabinose and ammonium cyanide, 
or of ^-arabinoseimine with hydrogen cyanide, ^^glucosamic acid, 
CHs(OH) . [CH . OH], . CH(NHs) . COjH, was obtained and its lactone 
reduced to glucosamine. Glucosamine forms a penta-acetyl derivative 
and also an oxime, semi-carbazone and phenyl hydrazone, but it cannot 
be converted into glucose, though it gives glucose phenyl osazone 
when heated with phenyl hydrazine. Nitrous acid converts it into a 
compound (C^Hi^O^) formerly regarded as a sugar and termed chitose ; 
this forms chitonic acid when oxidised. Glucosamine is often regarded 
as a derivative of chitose, and termed chitosamine. It is perhaps 
desirable to retain this name until its identity as glucosamine or 
mannoseamine has been established. 

Chitose was claimed by Fischer and Andreae to be a hydrated fur- 
furane derivative rather than a true sugar, formed by simultaneous 
elimination of the amino group and anhydride formation. It has the 
formula — 

HO . CH— CH . OH 
(CH,OH).CH CH.CHO 

o 

Irvine and Hynd formulate chitose (anhydro-glucose) with the 
aldehydic radicle present, as in the hexoses, in the butylene oxide 
form — 



O 



CHa(OH) . CH . CH . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) 

! o ! 

whereas Levene and La Forge consider it to be a-S-anhydromannose. 
Accordingly, chitonic acid is a-S-anhydromannonic acid whilst the 
isomeric chitaric acid formed by the action of nitrous acid on glucos- 
amic acid is considered to be a-S-anhydrogluconic acid. 

Irvine has prepared an amino methyl glucoside from glucosamine 
and converted it into glucose, thus establishing the relationship between 
glucose and glucosamine. The conversion takes place through the 
following reactions : ^-glucosamine hydrochloride-^^bromotriacetyl 
glucosamine hydrobromide-^triacetyl amino methyl glucoside hydro- 
bromide->amino methyl glucoside hydrochloride. 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 63 

This last compound, like other derivatives of glucosamine, reacts 
abnormally with nitrous acid and does not yield methyl glucoside, 
On methylation by the silver oxide method dimethyl amino methyl 
glucosideis obtained, from which the substituted amino group is expelled 
by heating with barium hydroxide. The product is further methylated 
and converted into tetramethyl methyl glucoside, from which ^-glucose 
results on removal of the methyl groups. 

Irvine and Hynd have also converted glucosamine into ^-mannose 
in almost quantitative yield by the following sequence of reactions : — 

^Glucosamine hydrochloride->methylglucosamine hydrochloride-* 
benzylidene methylglucosamine hydrochloride->a benzylidene hexose-> 
rf-mannose. A Walden inversion might take place during the course 
of these changes, and probably in the formation of the benzylidene 
hexose, which is effected by the action of sodium nitrite upon the 
preceding amino-compound. 

GlucosdnUne^ first obtained by Lobry de Bruyn, is prepared by 
the action of ammonia on glucose dissolved in methyl alcohol. It 
has been held at various times to be an iminoglucose or a nitrogen 
ring compound, but the bulk of the evidence available points to it being 
a i-amino-glucose — 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OH), . CH . NH„ 

' O ^1 

and isomeric with glucosamine (2-aminoglucose). 

A similar crystalline ethylaminoglucose which exhibits mutarotation 
is formed from glucose and ethylamine. In these compounds hydro- 
lysis with acids takes place so readily that definite salts cannot be 
isolated : this appears to be due to the nitrogen group occupying the 
reducing position on carbon I. 

Isoglucosamine was obtained by Fischer by reducing phenylglucos- 
azone with zinc dust and acetic acid. It forms salts and shows precisely 
similar reactions to those given by glucosamine. It is i-aminofructose, 
with the formula — 

CH,(OH) . (CH . OH), . CO . CH, . NH, 

The reaction is a general one and can be extended to other sugars. 

Lobry de Bruyn has shown that glucosamine in aqueous solution 
changes to a substance which can be obtained more readily by the 
action of alcoholic ammonia on fructose. This substance yields a 
pyrazine derivative on oxidation (Stolte), and its formation from 
glucosamine would appear to take place according to the equation — 

2C,H„0,N + O = CijH^jOeN, + 3H,0 

The product has been shown to be 2, j-ditetrahydroxy butylpyrazine. 



64 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRAtES AND GLUCOSIDES 

A second product — QHg04N — is also formed during this reaction. 
It is converted into glucosephenylosazone without difficulty and is 
produced also by the action of ammonia in methylalcoholic solution on 
glucosone. It is stable towards acids but the nitrogen is easily ex- 
pelled as ammonia by alkalis. Irvine terms it fructoseazine and 
assigns to it the formula — 

CH,(OH) . CH . [CH . OHi . C CH 

\/ 

N 

deriving it from the unknown fructoseimine by the elimination of 
water. 

An isomeride of glucosamine has been obtained by Fischer by the 
following series of operations : )8-pentacetyl glucose, when treated 
with anhydrous liquid hydrogen bromide, forms dibromo-triacetyl 
glucose which reacts with methyl alcohol to give triacetyl ^-methyl 
glucoside bromohydrin. This is converted by ammonia at the ordinary 
temperature into amino /8-methyl glucoside from which the amino 
sugar is obtained on hydrolysis. The new compound reduces Fehling's 
solution but differs from glucosamine in a number of ways, the osazone 
which it yields with phenyl-hydrazine being different from phenyl- 
glucosazone ; it is also less stable to acids. Judging from the produc- 
tion of an anhydro glucose from dibromo-triacetyl glucose (p. 28) the 
amino group in the new isomeride is attached to the carbon atom in 
the terminal position thus : — 

H H OH H 

CH,NH, . C . C . C . C . CHO 
OH OH H OH 

Irvine and Hynd have obtained synthetic aminoglucosides by 
condensing bromo-triacetylglucosamine hydrobromide with an hy- 
droxy compound in presence of a base ; glucosides of two types are 

produced : — 

-0 



. CH . CH(OH) . CH . CH 



(A) CHj,(0H) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH . CH OR 



NHj.HQ 
O- 



(B) CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH . CH 

N O 

H H R 

When the group condensed with .the glucosamine residue consists 
of a short open chain the product possesses properties similar to those 
of o-aminomethylglucoside and thus belongs to type B, which includes 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 65 

a modified betaine ring in the molecule. Derivatives which contain a 
benzene nucleus in the glucosidic position behave as true glucosides 
and behave as type A. 

Compounds of type B are remarkably stable towards the hydro- 
lytic action of acids, they are not hydrolysed by emulsin. The normal 
aminoglucosides are easily hydrolysed by acids and both aminosalicin 
and aminohelicin are hydrolysed by emulsin. 

The wide distribution of betaines in nature makes the synthetic 
aminoglucosides of type B of special interest, the more so as they may 
be closely related to glucoproteins. Irvine regards these last as 
glucosamine derivatives in which aminoacyl residues, i.e. short poly- 
peptide chains (Ri, R,, R,, etc.), occupy the amino position and possibly 
all the hydroxyl positions with the exception of the glucosidic group. 

O 



CHa(OR,) . CH(ORJ . CH . CH(OR,) . CH — CH 

N 

R, Ri G 

Much of the behaviour of the mucins is in agreement with this 
hypothesis. 

Irvine's observations receive support from the fact that when 
glucosamic acid, the oxidation product of glucosamine, is methylated 
by means of methylsulphate and barium hydroxide the molecule under- 
goes fission, the products, according to Pringsheim, being betaine and 
an uncrystallisable solid, consisting probably of a methylated tetrose. 
This observation is of interest in view of the possible connection of such 
an action with the occurrence of betaine and of proteins in the sugar 
beet 

Chondrosamine. 

Cartilage (nasal septa) contains a substance, chondroitin sulphuric 
acid ; this is a tetrasaccharide consisting of two glucuronic acids and 
two chondrosamine units, in which the amino groups are acetylated. 
Chondrosamine has been the subject of an extensive investigation by 
Levene and La Forge. It was at first described as glucosamine but 
proved to be an isomeride of this and was considered to be /-allosamine 
or /-altrosamine owing to the supposed similarity between the osazones 
of chondrosamine and these hexoses. The osazone was subsequently 
identified as galactosazone, and chondrosamine shown to be identical 
with the synthetic lyxohexosamine, both amino sugars yielding anhy- 
dromucic acid on oxidation and forming identical derivatives. It is 
thus either 2-amino-galactose or 2-amino-talose, probably the latter. 

5 



66 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

H OHOHNH, 
CHj(OH) . C . C . C . C . CHO 
OH H H H 

The aminohexoses are synthesised from the pentoses by the follow- 
ing series of operations. By means of methylalcoholic ammonia the 
imine (i-aminopentose) is formed which is left with hydrocyanic acid 
and the product hydrolysed with hydrochloric acid at o"* C A mixture 
of the two epimeric hexosamic acids is obtained in this manner and 
oxidation with nitric acid converts these into the corresponding tetra- 
hydroxyadipic acids. The epimeric acids can be converted into one 
another by heating with pyridine in the usual manner. 

The two ^i^rabinohexosamic acids correspond to chitosamic acid 

(from glucosamine) [a]^ - 15° and the cpimeride [a]^ - 10°. From 

^lyxose the acids obtained are chondrosamic [a]^ - 17** and the 

epimeride [a]^ + 8°. The acids from xylose have [a]o + 14** and 

- 11° respectively. 

As already indicated on page 59 arabinose yields a preponderance 
of the laevo-rotatory mannonic acid when coupled with hydrogen 
cyanide, whereas lyxose and xylose yield mainly dextro-rotatory 
hexonic acids. Similarly, i-aminoarabinose yields a larger proportion 
of a laevo-rotatory hexosamic acid (identical with glucosamic acid), 
whereas dextro-rotatory hexosamic acids preponderate from amino- 
lyxose and aminoxylose. Levene considers the analogy to justify 
the regarding of the acid from arabinose as mannosamic acid. 

The configuration of these synthetic a-hexosamic acids is also 
indicated by optical considerations. In each pair of hexonic acids 
the member which has the same configuration of the a-carbon atoms 
as ^^luconic acid possesses either a higher dextro-rotation or a lower 
laevo-rotation than the epimeride. By heating the acid with pyridine 
an increase in rotation occurred with each of the acids excepting 
lyxohexosamic acid. Hence chitosamic acid (from glucosamine) has 
the configuration of mannosamic acid, xylohexosamic acid that of 
idosamic acid, chondrosamic acid that of talosamic acid, and ^-lyxo- 
hexosamic acid that of galactosamic acid. The value of the a-carbon 
atom in each pair of epimeric acids is found by experiment to be 1 2*5^ 

Levene and La Forge consider chondroitin to be a tetrasaccharide 
consisting of two glucuronic acids and two chondrosamine units. The 
amino groups are acetylated and the primary alcohol groups esterified 
with sulphuric acid. On hydrolysis the sulphuric and acetic acids are 
split off and the molecule ruptured between the two glucuronic acid 
molecules forming chondrosin. Levene has obtained mucoitin 
sulphuric acid from a number of mucins and mucoids. This differs 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 67 

from chondroitin since on hydrolysis it yields a disaccharide composed 
of glucuronic acid and glucosamine which is termed mucosin : — 

CijHaiOuN 

Hudson has isolated the a- and /3-pentacetates of glucosamine 
and chondrosamine and contrasted their molecular rotations with those 
of the glucose pentacetates. The end asymmetric carbon has the 
same configuration in all though it is reversed in chondrosamine, which 
is a derivative of an /-sugar, and, as the table on p. 41 shows, the values 
of 2 A for the amino-sugars agree closely. The agreement is not quite 
so good with the glucose pentacetates which may indicate that the 
nature of the groups on the chain have in this case a definite though 
small influence upon the rotation of the end asymmetrical carbon 
atom. 

Phosphoric Esters. 

The discovery of the r61e played by hexose phosphate in fermenta- 
tion lends considerable interest to the phosphoric esters of carbohydrates. 

The hexose phosphate CjHi^O^(PO^H3)2 from glucose, mannose or 
fructose (see p. 116) is not precipitated by ammoniacal magnesium 
citrate mixture, but the lead salt is precipitated by lead acetate. It 
can be purified by decomposition by hydrogen sulphide and reprecipita- 
tion. With phenyl hydrazine an osazone is formed, one molecule of 
phosphoric acid being eliminated, which has the composition — 

(H,P0JC8H,(0H),(NHPh)a 

The sodium, phenyl hydrazine and aniline salts have been characterised. 

Hexose phosphoric acid contains an active carbonyl group and two 
phosphoric acid groups, one of the latter being probably attached to 
the carbon atom adjacent to the carbonyl group since it is split off in 
the formation of the osazone. 

Neuberg has described phosphoric esters of glucose and sucrose 
prepared by the action of phosphorus oxychloride on the carbohydrates 
in presence of calcium carbonate or hydroxide. These have the com- 
position C5H11O5 . O . POjCa and Cj^HjiOiq . O . POgCa. Neither of 
them is fermented by yeast On the other hand, the corresponding 
calcium fructose phosphate obtained by partly hydrolysing sucrose 
phosphate with dilute hydrochloric acid is stated to be readily fermented 
by yeast It reduces Fehling's solution. 

Phosphoric acid esters of the carbohydrates play an important 
part in the structure of the nucleic acids. Thus inosinic acid when 

5* 



68 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

hydrolysed in acid solution yields a purine base and ^-ribose phos- 
phoric acid. The position where pentose and acid are attached is not 
known. Yeast nucleic acid contains this grouping four times, whilst 
in thymus nucleic acid the sugar is a hexose. 

Tannins. 

The tannins have long been regarded as glucosides, Strecker in 
1852 being the first to show that they contained glucose. His formula, 
C27H22O11, for tannin corresponded with three molecules of gallic acid 
to one of glucose. Other observers have disputed the presence of 
glucose in tannin, which often figures simply as digallic acid in the 
older textbooks. Statements as to the amount of glucose obtained 
from tannin on hydrolysis vary very widely : this is due to the great 
difficulty experienced both in purifying the tannin and in separating 
the glucose formed. Fischer and Freudenberg ( 1 9 1 2) showed that care- 
fully purified tannin yields somewhat more than 8 per cent, of glucose 
on hydrolysis. This proportion is too small for tannin to be a glucoside 
of the ordinary type, but it is suggested by Fischer and Freudenberg 
that it is an acyl derivative of glucose analogous to pentacetylglucose 
or pentabenzoylglucose. A pentadigalloylglucose, 

CHj(OX) . CH(OX) . CH . CH{OX) . CH(OX) . CH(OX) 

I o ^1 

where 

X = - CO. CeHs(OH), . O. CO. CbHjCOH), 

should contain iO'6 percent, of glucose. It has the high molecular 
weight 1700. This formula is in agreement with what is known as 
to the composition, optical activity, small acidity and the behaviour of 
tannin on hydrolysis. 

Proof of the correctness of this hypothesis is afforded by the syn- 
thesis by Fischer and Freudenberg of acyl derivatives of glucose closely 
analogous to natural tannin. On shaking glucose with a chloroform 
solution of trimethylcarbonato galloylchloride in presence of quinoline 
an acyl derivative is formed from which, on cautious hydrolysis with 
alkali, the methylcarbonato groups can be removed so that penta- 
galloylglucose is formed. The synthetic compound has all the pro- 
perties of the tannins. Other phenolcarboxylic acids may be used 
for the condensation, and methyl-glucoside or glycerol may be sub- 
stituted for glucose. The way is thus opened for the synthesis of a 
variety of products of high molecular weight, amounting in the ex- 
treme case of derivatives of the disaccharides to several thousands. 
It is quite possible that such compounds may be present in animals. 



PROPERTIES OF GLUCOSE AND THE HEXOSES 69 

Fischer and Bergmann have succeeded in synthesising penta- 
{tn- and /-digaIloyI)-)8-glucoses, the former of which is remarkably 
similar to Chinese tannin, the only point of difference noted being the 
specific rotation, which is of minor importance in colloid substances of 
such complexity. 

Glucose in combination with gallic acid has been shown by Feist 
to be associated naturally with tannin. The natural compound differs 
from the )8-glucosidogallic acid, C^HnOg . O . C,H8(OH)2 . CO^H, 
prepared by Fischer and Strauss in which the coupling of the hexose 
and the aromatic residue involves a phenolic group, as is confirmed by 
its conversion into glucosyringic acid. It is suggested that in the 
natural compound the carboxyl group is involved — 

CHiiOg . O . CO . C,H,(OH)„ 

and this has been confirmed by the preparation of a i-galloylglucose 
having the above structure by Fischer and Bergmann which is in all 
respects identical with the natural glucogallin isolated by Gilson from 
Chinese rhubarb, though it is said to be quite distinct from Feist's 
glucogallic acid. 



CHAPTER III. 

THE HEXOSES, PEl^TOSES AND CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS. 

The general properties of the monosaccharides have been fully dealt 
with in the foregoing and exemplified in the case of glucose. In 
dealing with the remaining hexoses it is only necessary to recapitulate 
briefly their more important properties and any salient points of 
difference from glucose. Most of the synthetic sugars are not referred 
to in detail as they are not of biochemical interest 

Glucose and fructose are the only two of the monosaccharides which 
occur naturally as such. The others are found in nature as poly- 
merides, as glucosides, or in the form of alcohols, and are prepared 
by hydrolysis or oxidation. 

Fructose and sorbose are types of the ketohexoses, a group which 
has been much less investigated than the aldohexoses. Both fructose 
and sorbose have the ketonic oxygen attached to the a-carbon atom, 
but a number of other isomerides are possible in w^iich the keto group 
is situated elsewhere in the molecule. The ketohexoses do not yield 
acids containing the same number of carbon atoms on oxidation, but 
the molecule breaks into two at the ketonic group. 

TABLE X. — Thb Monosaccharidbs. 

Diose, Triases. Tetrosis, 

GlycoUic aldehyde. d- and /-Glycerose. d- and Z-Erythrose. 

Dihydroxyacetone. d- and /'Threose. 

Methylglycerose. Erythrulose. 

Pentoses, Methylpentoses, 

d' and Z-Arabinose. Z-Rhamnose. 

d- and Z-Xylose. d- and /-Isorhamnoee. 

d- and Z-Ribose. Fucose, Rhodeose. 

d' and /-Lyxose. Epirhodeose. 

Aldohexoses. Ketohexoses. 

d' and Z-Glucose. d- and Z-Fructose. 

d- and Z-Mannose. d- and Z-Sorbose. 

d- and Z-Gulose. Tagatoee. 

d' and /-Idoee. 

d- and Z- Galactose. 

d' and Z-Talose. 

iZ-Altrose. 

<f-AlIose. 

70 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 71 

TABLE X. — ^Thb Monosaccharides— co»/mtMj. 

Heptoses. Oetosss, Nonosss. Deeose. 

Mannoheptose. Manno-octose. Mannononose. Glucodecose. 

Glacoheptose. Gluco-octose. Glucononose. 

Galactoheptose. Galacto-octose. 

Mannoketoheptose. 

Perseulose. 

Sedoheptose. 

Mannose. 

^a^Mannose is widely distributed in nature in the form of an- 
hydride-like condensation products termed mannosans which are con- 
verted into mannose when hydrolysed by acids ; it does not occur in 
more simple form. A convenient source for its preparation is the 
vegetable ivory nuL This is the endosperm of the seed of the tagua 
palm PhyteUphas macrocarpa, A method of obtaining as much as 
4 per cent of the weight of the vegetable ivory in the form of pure 
crystalline mannose has been worked out in detail by Hudson. The 
meal is hydrolysed by 75 per cent sulphuric acid, the acid removed 
by means of calcium hydroxide, and after purification the colourless 
solution is evaporated to a thick syrup and this mixed with an equal 
volume of glacial acetic acid. This method makes a great advance on 
the original practice of Fischer and Hirschberger of isolating the 
phenyl-hydrazone and decomposing this to the sugar, and makes the 
sugar available for the further study of its properties. 

Mannose forms rhombic crystals and has initially a sweet taste 
followed immediately by a distinctly bitter one. This bitterness is 
quite characteristic and of interest, in view of the pure sweetness of 
the closely related isomerides glucose and fructose, the latter being 
the sweetest sugar known. 

Crystalline mannose is the /8 form having [ajn - 1 7°. The rotation 
of the a form is calculated by Hudson to be + 34° and that of the 
equilibrated mixture is + I4'6°. 

Mannose is the true aldehyde of mannitol, and may be obtained 
from it by oxidation, or converted into it by reduction. It is of in- 
terest that it was first prepared by Fischer and Hirschberger in this 
manner, and only subsequently identified as a natural product It is 
very similar to rf-glucose in its general properties, exhibits muta- 
rotation, and forms the same phenyl osazone as glucose and fructose. 
Mannose is altogether remarkable in forming a sparingly soluble 
phenyl hydrazone which enables it to be very easily identified. This 
hydrazone is precipitated within a few minutes when phenyl hydrazine 
is added to a solution of mannose. 



72 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Nitric acid oxidises mannose to ^mannosaccharic acid, which 
readily forms a double lactone : — 

I ° — J 

CO . CH(OH) . CH . CH . CH(OH) . CO 

I o 1 

Mannose forms an additive compound with hydrogen cyanide, 
which, on hydrolysis, yields mannoheptonic acid. Apparently one 
only of the two possible isomerides is formed. The mannoheptose 
obtained from this is very similar to mannose, and forms a sparingly 
soluble phenyl hydrazone. On reduction it yields 'the alcohol C7H15O7 
identical with the natural perseitol. 

Galactose. 

^Galactose occurs as a constituent of milk sugar and raffinose, 
also in many gums and seaweeds as the polymeric form galactan ; its 
presence in the form of a galactoside is rare, being confined to the 
saponins, xanthorhamnin, and a few other natural glucosides. Lipp- 
mann records the appearance of galactose as a crystalline efflorescence 
resembling hoar frost on ivy berries following a sharp frost, the first 
after a late dfy autumn. Both isomeric forms of galactose occur 
naturally: Winterstein found ^]i/-galactose in Chagnal gum, Tollens 
obtained it from Japanese Nori. 

The galactans are widely distributed in the form of gums, muci- 
lages, pectins. Galactose is usually associated in them with arabinose 
or xylose. The pectins, which are of importance in the jam industry, 
are hydrolysed by acids to galactose and arabinose and by an enzyme 
pectase into pectic acids. It resembles glucose in properties ; char- 
acteristic is the formation of mucic acid on oxidation with nitric acid, 
and this may be used for its identification. On reduction with sodium 
amalgam the corresponding alcohol, dulcitol, is formed ; this is found 
naturally. By the action of alkalis it is transformed into df-talose and 
df-tagatose. It is fermented by some yeasts, but not by all those 
which ferment glucose ; a fact which has been taken as indicating that 
a special galacto-zymase is required for the fermentation. 

Ordinary galactose is the a form [aj^ + 144°; it crystallises in 
anhydrous leaflets or from water as the hydrate in large prisms. The 
/8 form has +52° and the equilibrium mixture + 80°. a-Methyl- 
galactoside is not hydrolysed by enzymes ; /9-methylgalactoside is 
attacked, like milk sugar, by the lactase of kephir, by the lactase 
present in some yeasts, and by a lactase present in an aqueous ex- 
tract of almonds (see Chapter V.). 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 73 

The 7 form of methylgalactoside has recently been isolated and 
corresponds in general behaviour to the ethylene oxide form of methyl- 
glucoside ; it is of interest that its tetramethyl derivative, after re- 
moval of the glucosidic methyl group by gentle hydrolysis, undergoes 
auto-condensation to an octamethyldigalactose. 

Under abnormal conditions galactose is formed in the sugar beet, 
and appears in combination with sucrose as the trisaccharide, raffinose. 
The quantity of raffinose is increased abnormally by disturbances of 
growth, such as those occasioned by sudden frost. Under these con- 
ditions the galactans are supposed to undergo hydrolysis and form 
galactose. Apparently the plant, when confronted with galactose, 
utilises it first to form a disaccharide, melibiose, composed of glucose 
and galactose, and then makes use of the glucose half in this di- 
saccharide, according to its fixed habit, by combining it with fructose, 
with the result that a compound carbohydrate containing all three 
simple hexoses is formed. 

Galactose is the sugar of the brain whence it was isolated and 
described under the name cerebrose by Thudichum. It is a constitu- 
ent of the cerebrosides known as phrenosin and kerasin. 

These compounds on hydrolysis furnish galactose, a base sphingo- 
sine and a fatty acid ; that in phrenosin being phrenosinic acid, 
C^Hs^O,, and that in kerasin being lignoceric acid, C24H43O2. They 
are both optically active and have the property of forming liquid 
crystals. (For further details see the monograph by Maclean in this 
series.) 

Fructose. 

rf-Fructose or laevulose, discovered by Dubrunfaut in 1 847, occurs 
tc^ether with glucose in the juices of fruits, etc, the mixture being 
often termed fruit sugar or invert sugar. It is present in chicory and 
especially the Jerusalem artichoke. Combined with glucose it occurs 
as cane sugar, raffinose, etc. It is a constituent of alliin, the gluco- 
side of garlic and of some saponins. The polysaccharide inulin yields 
fructose alone when hydrolysed. 

To prepare it from invert sugar or hydrolysed inulin it is best to 
form the crystalline calcium laevulosate and decompose this with 
carbon dioxide. 

Fructose is a ketohexose having the following alternative consti- 
tution : — 



I 



74 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



CH, . OH CHa(OH) . [CH(OH)], . CH . C(OH) . CH,(OH) 

O 

Ethylene-oxide formula. 






HCOH HOC CH 

HCOH I H HO I 

I CH5(0H)— C CH . CH,(OH) 

CHjOH X' 

Ketonic formula. ^^ 




Butylene-oxide formula. 

Fructose crystallises less easily than glucose, and its derivatives 
are also difficult to crystallise. It is much sweeter than glucose. It 
exhibits mutarotation, and, like glucose, exists in solution presum- 
ably as an equilibrated mixture of several stereoisomeric forms. It is 
remarkable for the very large change produced in the specific rotatory 
power by changes of temperature. The rotatory power becomes less 
negative as the temperature is increased, and at 87*3° C. it is equal 
and opposite to that of glucose. 

The recent work of Irvine and his school has afforded evidence 
that fructose is much more prone than is glucose to react in the 
ethylene oxide form. Pure solid fructose which has been dissolved 
in water is quite stable to permanganate and represents the butylene- 
oxide form, but if the solution is made acid, kept for an hour and 
neutralised, permanganate is decolorised within a few minutes, show- 
ing that the ethylene-oxide form of fructose has been formed. Ethyl- 
ene-oxide itself in solution behaves similarly towards permanganate. 
Fructose thus reacts either as — 

(i) A compound containing the butylene-oxide ring and existing 
in a and /3 modifications. Ordinary fructose, the /3 modification, 
forms rhombic crystals, [ajo - I33'S° falling to -92° in solution. 
The calculated rotation of the a form is - 2i^ 

This type of fructose is not attacked by permanganate, does not 
combine readily with acetone and forms stable fructosides and acetyl 
derivatives, e.g. a pentacetate and tetracetyl )8-methyl fructoside, also 
a crystalline tetramethyl- fructose [a]^ - 125°. 

(2) A more active compound probably containing an ethylene- 
oxide ring and likewise capable of existing in interconvertible a and 
13 modifications having lower specific rotations. The derivatives of 
this form are highly reactive, combine readily with acetone, and re- 
duce permanganate. The fructosides are very easily hydrolysed 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 75 

Sy acids and resemble sucrose, which is perhaps a derivative of 
the ethylene-oxide fructose. The tetramethyl derivative is a liquid 
having [a]^ + 29-3°. 

When submitted to the action of ultra-violet rays, solutions of 
fructose are transformed into carbon monoxide and dioxide, formal- 
dehyde, methyl alcohol, and aldehydic and acidic substances ; this is 
said to be the first d^radation of fructose which has been effected by 
other than purely chemical or biochemical agency. 

Fructose shows a number of characteristic reactions. Hydrogen 
bromide interacts with fructose in ethereal solution to form bromo- 

CH : C(CH,Br)\ 

methylfurfuraldehyde J ^O, a substance which crystallises in 

golden yellow rhombic prisms; the ethereal liquid is coloured an 
intense purple-red (Fenton and Gostling). A /8-oxy-7-methylfurfural- 
dehyde is produced on heating concentrated solutions of fructose under 
pressure, preferably with oxalic acid. 

On prolonged boiling with dilute mineral acids, laevulinic acid, 
CH, . CO . CH2 . CH2 . CO2H, is formed together with formic acid and 
humus substances. 

When oxidised by means of mercuric oxide fructose forms 
glycollic acid, CH2(0H) . COgH, and trihydroxybutyric acid, 
CHjOH • (CH . OH)a . CO2H. It is not acted upon by bromine water 
of low concentration : aldoses can be distinguished from ketoses by 
means of this test Mannitol and sorbitol are formed on reduction 
with sodium amalgam. 

By the action of methyl alcohol and hydrogen chloride on fructose 
a syrup is obtained which probably represents a mixture of methyl 
fructosides, in which undoubtedly both a and fi modifications of the 
ethylene and butylene-oxide forms are present. On methylation and 
hydrolysis a mixture of tetramethylfructoses is obtained, which has 
been separated into the syrupy, ethylene-oxide and the crystalline, 
butylene-oxide forms. The original syrupy mixture could not be 
obtained crystalline. 

This syrup is partially hydrolysed by yeast extract, but, inasmuch 
as Pottevin has shown that it is not hydrolysed by 5. octosporus, Mucor 
niucedo and other ferments which attack cane sugar and maltose, the 
hydrolysis is presumably caused by an enzyme other than invertase 
or maltase, neither of which should act on these fructosides (see 
Chapter IV.). 

Cfystalline /8-methylfructoside, [aj^ - 172°, was obtained by Hud- 
son by methylation of tetra-acetyl fructose and subsequent hydrolysis. 



76 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

It is not hydrolysed by the enzymes of yeast nor by emulsin and 
does not show mutarotation. It undoubtedly has the butylene-oxide 
structure. 

Fructose, like glucose, forms an additive compound with hydrogen 
cyanide which yields fructose carboxylic acid on hydrolysis ; this, when 
boiled with hydriodic acid, is converted into methyl butylacetic acid, 
C4HJ, . CHMe . COgH. This reaction and the behaviour on oxidation 
establish the formula of fructose. 

Fructose forms the same osazone as glucose; it also forms 
osazones with some disubstituted phenyl hydrazines, the primary 
CH2(0H) group being more easily oxidised by these than the 
secondary CH(OH) group in glucose. The methyl phenylosazone is 
characteristic of fructose. 

Glucose and its isomerides combine with acetone in presence of 
hydrogen chloride forming mono- and diacetone derivatives of a gluco- 
sidic nature since they no longer reduce Fehling*s solution. Enzymes 
are entirely without action on them. The acetone compounds of 
fructose have been investigated by Irvine who has proved the existence 
of two isomeric fructose monacetones — 

,0 . JH, CHj . OH 



CMe,< • 

\o.c 




Cr— Ov 

. \ N 



Hc -Ao/ 
\o 

HOCH / 

HC/ 
• . 

CHjOH CHjOH 

A B 

having probably the formulae A and B, each of which will exist in a and 
fi forms. From A a diacetone is formed, but B is not prone to further 

condensation : this is consistent with the view that the acetoneyCMe^ 

residue displaces the hydrogen atom of two adjacent hydroxyl groups 
which need not, however, be on the same side of the formula as re- 
presented on a plane surface. 

The expressions cis and trans are used by Irvine to distinguish be- 
tween the linkage between hydroxyl groups on the same or on opposite 
sides of the molecule. In fructose diacetone both types are present 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 77 




^ XH,0 
CHjOH.CH o. H C/ j 

I. \A 

ttani 



It is not therefore surprising that the two acetone groups are 
eliminated at different rates on hydrolysis, fructose cis monoacetone 
being formed as an intermediate product In triacetone mannitol there 
is evidence that the acetone groups are in order trans^ trans^ ds^ and di- 
and monoacetone compounds are formed in turn on cautious hydrolysis. 
The most stable acetone residue is attached to a terminal primary 
alcohol group. 

It is probable that glucose and fructose play distinct parts in meta- 
bolism. Brown and Morris have shown that glucose is mainly con- 
cerned in respiration ; fructose appears to take part more particularly 
in the elaboration of tissue since ft is far less stable than glucose. 

In this connection the ex^riments of Lindet are of particular in- 
terest. Dealing more particularly with yeasts and moulds he adduces 
experimental evidence to prove that fructose is specially concerned in 
tissue formation, glucose being mdre readily used for fermentation and 
respiration. Yeasts and moulds, for equal weights of sugar consumed, 
show greater growth in fructose and they consume glucose preferen- 
tially from invert sugar. 

It is stated also that fructose is sometimes found to be assimilated 
by diabetics when glucose is inadmissible. 

Sorbose. 

Sorbose was discovered by Pelouze in 1852 and was isolated from 
the juice of mountain ash berries which had beea exposed to the air for 
many months. These berries contain the alcohol sorbitol, which, under 
the influence of an oxidising organism, shown by Emmerling to be 
identical with the bacterium xylinum of Adrian Brown, is oxidised to 
sorbose. The brilliani researches of Bertrand have given a complete 
explanation of the transformation, and have rendered the preparation 
of sorbose a relatively simple matter. Sorbose is a ketose having the 
formula — 



78 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

CHjOH 

CO 
HOCH 

HCOH 
HOCH 

CHjOH 

It has a marked crystallising power, is not fermentable, and generally 
behaves as fructose ; on reduction it yields sorbitol. Lobry de Bruyn 
has shown that under the influence of alkali sorbose is converted 
into /-gulose, Aldose and /-galactose, and so affords a connecting link 
between hexoses of the mannitol and dulcitol series. This result is 
of importance, as the direct synthesis of a hexose of the dulcitol series 
has not been achieved. 

Fischer originally designated it as ^sorbose because on reduction 
it yields the same sorbitol as ^-glucose. Both Rosanoff and Hudson 
suggest the name /-sorbose on account of the structural relationship 
to /-glycerose and /-glucose : their contention is undoubtedly correct 

a-Methyl-/-sorboside, [a]^ - 88°, obtained by the action of methyl 
alcohol and hydrochloric acid on /-sorbose, is so named by Hudson to 
fit in with his contention that the o^someride of a Isevo sugar is the 
more laevo-rotatory. 

The antipode ^-sorbose has been prepared by Lobry de Bruyn 
and van Ekenstein by the partial transformation of ^galactose under 
the influence of dilute alkalis. It has [a]^ + 42 9°. 

The Pentoses CgHioOs- 

Two pentoses, /-arabinose and ^xylose,^ are widely distributed in the 
vegetable kingdom as polysaccharides of high molecular weight, the so- 
called pentosans ; they also occur in complex glucosides, but are never 
found as the simple sugars. Xylose is found in straw, oat hulls and in 
most woods ; arabinose in gums, being conveniently prepared from 
cherry gum or gum-arabic. The rf-isomeride of arabinose can be 
obtained synthetically from rf-glucose by the degradation methods 
indicated in the previous chapter. Recently it has been found 
naturally as a constituent of the glucoside barbaloin, and described 
under the name aloinose (L6ger). 

In the animal kingdom a pentose is a constituent of the nucleopro- 
teins and nucleic acids. The nature of this pentose has been a sub- 
ject of controversy ; it is now regarded as rf-ribose and identical with 

^ Hitherto known as /-xylose. 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 79 

the carnose of Levene and Jacobs. The nucleic acids consist of a 
carbohydrate, phosphoric * acid, two purine bases and two pyrimidine 
bases. In plant nucleic acids the carbohydrate is ^ribose and this is 
also the only pentose of the animal body. Such nucleotides as guanylic 
or inosinic acids consist of phosphoric acids and a purine base united 
by ribose, and they form the corresponding nucleosides consisting of 
ribose and purine base when submitted to neutral hydrolysis at 175° 
under pressure. The nucleosides are glucosides (pentosides) and are 
decomposed by boiling mineral acids. Similar compounds of the 
pyrimidine bases exist (For further details see the monograph by 
Walter Jones in this series.) 

The carbohydrate group obtained from thymus nucleic acid is 
generally r^arded as laevulinic acid, which can be formed by heating 
hexoses with sulphuric acid. It is r^arded as of secondary origin 
from a hexose group. Lsevulinic acid is obtained uniformly from 
animal nucleic acids but never from plant nucleic acids. The recent 
work of Feulgen makes it very probable that the carbohydrate group 
consists of glucal, C^Hj^O^ 

As described later glucosides of carbohydrate and purine have been 
prepared synthetically. 

A pentose appears as an abnormal product in urine in the rare dis- 
ease pentosuria — according to Neuberg this is inactive ^-arabinose 
(see Garrod, " Inborn Errors of Metabolism **)} 

But little is known of the mechanism of the formation of pentoses 
in plants ; they may be formed in the same manner as the hexoses, but 
independently of these, or they may be degradation products of the 
hexoses (cp. p. 46). Xylose and arabinose serve as nutrient to 
yeast and bacteria, but higher plants have no power of utilising them. 

The pentosans are resistant towards alkali and require prolonged 
heating with mineral acids to effect hydrolysis. They are comparable 
with starch and cellulose and contain as a rule both C^ and C^ carbo- 
hydrates. No enzymes are known as yet which hydrolyse them ; in- 
asmuch as they are present essentially as skeletal, and not as food 
products in the plants, it is to be expected that they will be outside 
the range of the ordinary plant enzymes. 

Their origin and function in plants has been studied recently by 
Ravenna, who concludes that the simple sugars more than the complex 
carbohydrates exert a preponderating influence on their formation. 
They can act as a reserve material when the plant has exhausted the 
more readily utilisable food-stuffs. In leaves the pentosans increase 

' But Zerner regards it as /-lyxose or the corresponding xylo-ketose. 



8o THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

in amount during the day, decrease during the night They increase 
when the leaves are supplied with glucose, diminish when the action 
of the chlorophyll is prevented and carbohydrate nutriment is 
absent. 

The eight possible aldopentoses are given in the following table, 
together with their configuration formulae. The table also contains 
the configuration formulae of the remaining lower members of the 
group of monosaccharides, viz. 4 tetroses and 2 trioses : — 



CHO 
HOH 
HOH 
HOH 

CH.OH 
/-Ribose. 

CHO 
H OH 
HO H 
HO H 

CHjOH 
/-Arabinoee. 



CHO 



HO 
HO 



H 
H 



CHjOH 
/-Erythrofic 





TABLE XI. 




Aldopbntosbs. 


CHO 


CHO 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


CHgOH 


CHjOH 


d-Rihoae, 


rf-Xylose. 


CHO 


CHO 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH,OH 


CHjOH 


/-Lyxoee. 


<2-Arabino8e. 


Aldotbtrosbs. 


CHO 


CHO 


HOH 


H 


OH 


HOH 


HO 


H 


CHjOH 


CH3OH 


<2-Erythrose. 


Z-Threose 




Unknown. 


Aldotriosbs. 


CHO 


CHO 


H|OH 


HOH 


CH,OH 


CH,OH 




<^-Glycero8e. 


Z-Gl 


lycerose. 



CHO 



HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


CH,OH 


/-Xylose. 


CHO 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH,OH 


d- Lyxoee. 


CHO 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH,OH 


d-T\ 


breose. 



The optically active glyceroses (glyceraldehydes) have been syn- 
thesised by Wohl. The dextro-rotatory form has a^ + 13"* to 14°. 
By the hydrogen cyanide synthesis it is converted into a trihydroxy- 
butyric acid which yields /-tartaric acid on oxidation. 





CN 


COjH 


COjH 


CHO 
HOH 
CHjOH 
(i-Qlycerose. 


CH,OH 


CH(OH) 
HOH 

CH.OH 
Trihydroxy 
butyric acid. 


HO 

H 

C 

i-Ta 

ai 


H 
OH 

;o,H 

LTtaric 
cid. 



Hence the spatial formula of ^-glycerose is established • 
Since /-tartaric acid is the dicarboxylic acid of ^threose the spatial 
relationship of the dextro-rotatory glycerose to d^glucose is also proven. 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 8i 



Fortunately, as pointed out on page 38, the designation of " rf-gly- 
cerose " expresses both its optical activity and spatial relationship to 
^glucose. 

It remains to convert rf-glycerose into the corresponding monocar- 
boxylic acid by methods which eliminate all possibility of a Walden 
rearrangement. The formulae — 

HO 
CHj(OH) . C . CO,H 
H 

at present ascribed to dextro-rotatory glyceric acid would indicate it is 
derived from /-glycerose. This configuration is based on its prepara- 
tion from malic acid by Freudenberg, but the reactions may well have 
involved a Walden rearrangement It is supported also by the fact 
established by Frankland, Wharton and Aston that the calcium salt 
and amide of the acid are laevo-rotatoty, indicating by Hudson's rule 
that the hydroxyl is on the left of the formula, i.e. above the chain 
of carbon atoms. 

The natural pentoses are in reality closely related to the natural 
hexoses. As the formulae below show, the arrangement of the groups 
on the upper four carbon atoms is the same in each case in galactose 
and arabinose, and the same also in glucose as it is in xylose : — 



CHO 



CHO 



CHO 



CHO 



HCOH 
HOCH 
HCOH 
CHjOH 


HCOH 

HOCH 

1 


HCOH 
HOCH 
HOCH 
CH,OH 


HCOH 
HOCH 
HOCH 

HCOH 

CHjOH 
<i>Galact08e. 


HCOH 

HCOH 

CHjOH 
tf-Glucose. 


if-Xylose. 


/-Arabinose. 



In this connection, it is not without interest that some polysaccharides 

yield both xylose and glucose on hydrolysis, whilst arabinose and 

galactose occur together in many gums. 

When the cyanohydrin synthesis is applied to natural /-arabinose a 

mixture of two nitriles is obtained, and the corresponding acids, when 

reduced, give rise to /-glucose and /-mannose ; similarly, rf-xylose can 

be converted into ^gulose and ^-idose. ^Glucose, when degraded by 

the methods of Ruff or Wohl, gives rf-arabinose ; rf-galactose forms 

rf-lyxose. The carbon atom which requires to be eliminated in order 

that ^glucose may give rise to the natural rf-xylose, a transformation 

which there is reason to think may take place in the plant, is not the 

one effected by the processes described, but is situated at the extreme 

6 



82 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

end of the chain. No chemical means of effecting this change has as 
yet been discovered. 

Arabinose and xylose show the usual aldose reactions. They are 
not fermented by yeasts. Arabinose forms a characteristic, almost 
insoluble, diphenyl hydrazone. Xylose is best recognised by conver- 
sion into xylonic acid, and isolation of this as the cadmium bromide 
double salt. 

Pentoses are determined quantitatively by distillation with hydro- 
chloric acid when furfuraldehyde is formed. This is coupled with phloro- 
glucinol, and the condensation product isolated and weighed. The 
colour reactions obtained on heating with orcinol or phloroglucinol and 
hydrochloric acid are very characteristic, and frequently used for de- 
tecting the pentoses. 

Hudson finds that xylose can be very readily prepared from 
cotton-seed hulls with a yield of 8-12 per cent The hulls are ex- 
tracted first with 2 per cent, ammonia and then hydrolysed by boiling 
with 7 per cent, sulphuric acid. The filtrate is carefully neutralised 
with calcium hydroxide, made just acid with phosphoric acid and con- 
centrated. The remaining calcium sulphate is precipitated on the 
addition of alcohol and the solution evaporated to a syrup under re- 
duced pressure. This is mixed with alcohol and crystallisation soon 
takes place. 

The Methyl Pentoses. 

Several representatives of this class of carbohydrates have been 
discovered latterly in plants. In them, one of the hydrogen groups of 
the primary alcohol is replaced by methyl. They show most of the 
reactions characteristic of the pentoses, but form methyl furfuraldehyde 
on distillation with acids. 

Their biochemical significance is not yet understood ; they are not 
fermented by yeasts. The configuration of most of them has been 
established by the ordinary methods with the exception of the relative 
positions of the groups attached to the methylated carbon atom which 
remain uncertain in some of them, though for rhamnose and isorham- 
nose this is now established. 

The configuration formulae of the methyl pentoses, so far as at 
present known, are given in the following table : — 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 83 





y 




TABLE Xn. 


y 






( 
H 


CHO 
OH 


/^HOH\ 


( 
HO 


CHO 
H 


H 


CHO 
OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


^1 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


,(ji^ 


oh; 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


CH, 






MrHi 


CH, 


Z-Rhamnose. 


Unknown. 


Z-Isorhamnose. 


(f-Isorhamnose. 


i/ 








CHO 


CHO 


CHO 


CHO 


HO 


H 


H OH 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


H 


OH 


HO 


H 


HO 


H 


H 


OH 


( 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CH.OH 


CHj 


CH, 


CHg 


CH, 


Fu 


cose. 


Rhc 


»deo6e. 


Epirhodeose. 


Unknown. 



Rhamnose^ CeHjgOg, is a constituent of many glucosides, the best 
known of which are quercitrin . and xanthorhamnin, the colouring 
matter of Persian berries. It occurs particularly in combination with 
flavone derivatives. 

Rhamnose crystallises with a molecule of water the hydrate having 
the composition CgHi405 ; in consequence it was regarded at one time 
as belonging to the hexahydric alcohols and termed " isodulcitol ". 

Rhamnose forms a phenyl osazone and other derivatives similar to 
those of glucose. It exists in a and fi forms which exhibit mutarota- 
tion. By the cyanohydrin reaction two rhamnohexonic acids are 
formed, one of which yields mucic acid when oxidised. The synthesis 
has been extended to the preparation of rhamnohexose and rhamno- 
heptose. Methyl rhamnoside is not hydrolysed by enzymes. 

In view of the relationship in configuration of rhamnose to /-man- 
nose or /-gulose it must be regarded as /-rhamnose ; it is the methyl 
derivative of the unknown /-lyxose, 

X'lsorhamnose was obtained by Fischer by heating rhamnonic acid 
with pyridine and reduction of the isorhamnonic acici with sodium 
amalgam. It is the optical antipode of ^-isorhamnose {isorhodeose)^ 
one of the products of hydrolysis of purgic acid, the amorphous con- 
stituent of the glucoside convolvulin (Voto&k). The crystalline con- 
stituent of this glucoside, convolvulinic acid, is hydrolysed to glucose, 
rhamnose and rhodeose. This latter is the optical antipode olfucose^ 
which as the polymeride fucosan is a component of th^ cell-wall of 
many seaweeds. Voto&k has converted rhodeose into epirhodeose in 
the ordinary manner. These compounds and their derivatives have 
been fully described. The configuration of quinovose, known only in 
the glucoside quinovin, has not yet been established ; other methyl 
pentoses have been obtained by the hydrolysis of glucosides, which 
may prove to be new compounds. 



84 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Fischer and Zach have established the configuration of these methyl 
pentoses beyond doubt by the conversion of rf-glucose into ^isorham- 
nose. Starting from triacetyl methylglucoside bromohydrin, prepared 
from acetodibromoglucose by substitution of methyl for one bromine 
atom (page 28), the bromine atom was reduced by means of zinc dust 
and acetic acid. The triacetyl derivative obtained yielded a glucoside 
on alkaline hydrolysis from which the methylpentose was finally ob- 
tained on acid hydrolysis. Since no optical inversion can have taken 
place during the transformation, in which no asymmetric carbon atom 
was concerned, ^isorhamnose must have the same configuration as 
glucose and it is possible to deduce from it the configuration of /-rham- 
nose as that given on the previous page. 

Heptoses. 

m 

Sugars with seven carbon atoms have now been found to occur 
naturally so that added interest attaches to the synthetic members of 
this group. 

Mannoketoheptose has been isolated by La Forge from the Avocado 
pear {Persea gratissimd). It crystallises in six-sided prisms \a\^ + 29^ 
It is not fermentable by yeast and does not show mutarotation. The 
phenylosazone is identical with that of ^mannoaldoheptose. On re- 
duction with sodium amalgam rf-perseitol and ^)8-mannoheptitol are 
formed. 

The following formula is therefore assigned to mannoketoheptose : — 

H H OH OH 
CHa(OH) . C . C . C . C . CO . CHo(OH) 
OH OH H H 

Perseulose. — The natural alcohol, perseitol, which is also obtained 
on reduction of mannoheptose is converted on oxidation by B, xylinum 
to a crystalline ketose having a sweet taste and [a]D - 81*". It exhibits 
mutarotation (Bertrand). On reduction with sodium amalgam two 
alcohols are Formed, perseitol and perseulitol. 

La Forge considers perseulose to be /-galactoheptose with the 
structural formula — 

CH,(0H) 

obviously both mannoketoheptose and perseulose would give rise to 
the alcohol — 

H H OH OH H 
CH.OH. C . C . C . C . C.CHa(OH) 
OH OH H H OH 

which is therefore the formula of perseitol. 



H 


OH 


OH H 


C . 


. C . 


C . C.CO.CH,(OH) 


OH 


H 


H OH 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 85 

The configuration of the heptoses derived from galactose and man- 
nose has been studied by Pierce. Mannoheptitol and galactoheptitol 
are optical antipodes, each having the structure of perseitol. 

The second mannoheptitol derived from ^-mannoheptose has three 
hydroxyl groups on the same side of the chain attached to contiguous 
carbon atoms, whereas perseulitol has the constitution — 



H 


OH 


OH H 


OH 


C , 


. C . 


C . C 


. C 


OH 


H 


H OH 


H 



CHj(OH) . C . C . C . C . C . CH,(0H) 
OH H H OH H 

corresponding to the ^-galactoheptitol from /8-galactoheptose. 

The structural formula of the two ketoheptoses, of a- and /3-galac- 
toheptose, and of a- and /8-mannoheptose are thus all established. 

Sedoheptose was obtained by La Forge and Hudson from a common 
stonecrop — Sedum spectabile — as a syrup. It is non-fermentable, re- 
duces Fehling*s solution and gives a phenyl osazone. It is probably 
a ketose. When it is heated with dilute acid anhydrosedoheptose, 
CjHjjOg, is produced. This forms crystals, has a sweet taste, has \a\^ 
- 146° without mutarotation ; in boiling dilute acid solution an equili- 
brium mixture containing 20 per cent, of sedoheptose is formed. 

On reduction with sodium amalgam two sedoheptitols are obtained. 
The one a-sedoheptitol has m.p. 1 5I^ [ajo + 2-2" in water and + 22*1** 
in borax solution : it would thus appear to be identical with the natural 
alcohol volemitol, m.p. 149°-! 51°, [a]i> + 1*9° and + 2-6'* in water and 
+ 20-8° in borax solution. 

However, the benzylidene derivatives differ ; that from sedoheptitol 
having m.p. 200° and that from volemitol m.p. 90*", so that the identity 
of the two alcohols is still an open question. /8-Sedoheptitol crystal- 
lises in short thick prisms, m.p. 127°-! 28**, and is optically inactive; 
the benzylidene derivative has m.p. 272°. 

Volemitol, which occurs naturally, is oxidised by B, xylinum to a 
ketoheptose, volemnose, which gives the same phenyl osazone as the 
reducing sugar obtained by chemical oxidation of the alcohol. 



86 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Other Monosaccharides. 

Apiose. 

Mention may be made of an altogether abnormal sugar, termed 
apiose, on account of its presence in the glucoside apiin. This con- 
tains a branched chain of carbon atoms, having the formula — 

CHjGHv 

^C(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO 
CHjOH/ 

It is not fermentable, bromine oxidises it to apionic acid. When 
reduced by hydrogen iodide and phosphorus, isovaleric acid is obtained. 
Apiin contains the disaccharide glucoapiose; when hydrolysed by 
dilute mineral acids apiose and glucoapigenin are formed. 

Cymarose, Dig^italose, Dig:itoxose. 

These rare sugars are obtained on hydrolysis of the glucosides 
cymarin (from the root of apocyanum) and digitalin and digitoxin, two 
of the glucosides of digitalis. 

Digitoxose, C^H^fi^, crystallises in prisms [a]o + 46**. Kiliani 
has shown it to be a reduced methyl pentose having the following 
formula : — 

CHa . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH, . CHO 

Cymarose, C^Hj^O^, closely resembles digitoxose in behaviour and 
is considered by Windaus and Hermanns to be a methylether of 
digitoxose. 

Digitalose, C^Hi^Og, gives the reactions of an aldose sugar : it is 
perhaps a reduced methylhexose. All three compounds require further 
investigation. 

The Carbohydrate Alcohols. 

Several of the carbohydrate alcohols are widely distributed in plants. 

They crystallise well and are soluble in water. On cautious oxidation 

they give in turn a reducing sugar, monobasic acid and dibasic acid. 

They are not fermentable though attacked by a variety of bacteria and 

moulds. 

OH OH 
Erythritol—C}i^(0\i).C -C . CHaCOH)— is found in many 

H H 

algae and mosses, particularly Roccella tinctoria^ where it is present as 

erythrin, CaoH^Oj^j, a diorsellinate of erythritol. 

It has a sweet taste and is optically inactive, being the meso or 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 87 

internally compensated variety. It has been synthesised from buta- 

diene-7-8-oxide 

CH] : CH • CH • CH2 

\/ 
O 

by Pariselle. 

The two optically active varieties [a]o ± 4° have been obtained by 

alkaline reduction of /-threose and rf-erythrulose. 

OH OH OH 
Adonitol — CH2(OH).C . C . C . CH2(OH) — corresponds to 

H H H 

/-ribose, from which it is obtained on reduction ; it is the only naturally 

occurring pentose alcohol, and is found in Adonis vemalis. 

Theoretically four pentose alcohols are possible : two tneso forms, 
viz. adonitol and xylitol ; and d- and /-arabitol, obtainable by reduction 
oid- and /-arabinose or /- and ^^lyxose. 

There are ten possible stereoisomeric modifications of the hexose 
alcohols but three only are of interest. The others are obtainable by 
alkaline reduction of the appropriate aldo- or keto-hexoses. 

OHH H OH OH OH 
A-Mannitol — HC — C — C — C — C — CH has been found in manna, 

HOHOH H H H 

in the sap of the larch, etc., in leaves, in fruits, and particularly in 

fungi where it exceeds glucose in quantity or even replaces it. A 

glucoside, clavicepsin, present in the ergot of rye, yields glucose and 

mannitol when hydrolysed (Marino-Zirco and Pasquero). 

Mannitol seems in many cases to be a fermentation product derived 
from trehalose so that its formation may be avoided by preserving 
plant extracts under sterilised conditions. Irvine has noted specimens 
of sea-weed {Laminarid) which had become encrusted with mannitol 
after the cessation of active bacterial action on the surface of the 
thallus. 

Mannitol is optically inactive in water, but becomes dextro-rotatory 
on the addition of borax, if the mixture be acid. In alkaline solution 
it becomes laevo-rotatory. 

ArSorbitol is present in ripe mountain ash berries, from which it 
can be prepared without difficulty, and in the fruits of most of the 
Rosacea ; it is probably also present in the leaves. It has been found 
as a crystalline efflorescence on the heads of a fungus (Boletus 
dovinus), 

d-Iditol is also present in mountain ash berries. 

I'Dulcitol occurs particularly among the Scrophulariacece. 



88 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Two heptose alcohols, CaHi^O^, are known, eg. perseitol, occurring 
in Persea gratissinuiy and volemitol, discovered in iMctarius volemuSy 
and since identified in the rhizomes of some species of primula. Per- 
seitol is the alcohol corresponding to mannoheptose. 

An octitol has been isolated from the mother liquors of the sorbitol 
preparation from the fruit of some of the Rosacea. 

These alcohols are similar in properties to mannitol. Their 
physical constants are collected below : — 



TABLE XIII. 



Alcohol. 


Mdting-point. 


Optical 
Rototorr Power 


Erythritol .... 
Adonitol .... 
Mannitol .... 
Dulcitol .... 
Sorbitol .... 
Perseitol .... 
Volemitol . . . • . 


126*' 
I02« 
X68« 
i88« 

IIO» 

i8o° 
X54' 


inactive 

+ 22*5*' 

inactive 
+ 12-3*' 

+ I -9' 



Starting from glucose, Philippe has synthesised the higher alcohols 
of this series, obtaining them by reduction of the corresponding aldoses. 
a-Glucoheptitol is optically inactive and therefore symmetrically con- 
structed. )3-Glucoheptitol has slight optical activity, the same applies 
to (aa)-gluco-octitol, to (aaa)-glucononitol and to (aaaa)-gIucodecitoI, 
which are therefore all asymmetric in configuration. They are 
crystalline substances resembling mannitol in their properties. 

The polyhydroxy compounds can be coupled with acetone or 
benzylidene residues : fortunately these substances can be methylated 
by methyliodide in presence of silver oxide without decomposition, 
and it has thus been possible to study the influence of the position of 
the hydroxyl groups : — 

TABLE XIV. 



Alcohol. 


Nnmber of Hydroxyl 
Groups Preaent. 


Namber of Hydroxyl Groups 
which React with 


Acetone. 


Benxaldehyde. 


Erythritol 

Arabitol .... 

Dulcitol .... 

Sorbitol .... 

Mannitol 

Glucoheptitol . 


4 
5 
6 

6 
6 

7 


4 

4 

4 
6 

6 

6 


4 
2 

4 

4 
6 

2 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 89 

The series of reactions summarised above shows that the relation- 
ship between configuration and condensation is very complex, and 
that the action of acetone is less irregular than that of benzaldehyde. 

Two types of condensation are possible, depending on whether the 
hydroxyl groups concerned are on the same side or on opposite sides 
of the carbon chain : — 

I O— C— H 

H— C— O 



H— C 



vCMe, 
— 0/ H— C— O 



...CMc, 



• J . L . 

fis-condensation. /roiis-condensation. 

It is generally accepted that the ketonic residues are coupled as 
five-membered rings. 

The study of mannitoltriacetone by Irvine and Patterson has 
shown that it is hydrolysed in stages, both diacetone and monoacetone 
being formed in turn. The three ketonic residues are symmetrically 
attached to o-carbon atoms, and this difference in stability indicates 
that the substituents possess the trans-, /ra»j-m-arrangement 

The formula of triacetonemannitol is thus — 

A, 
/ \ 



CH, 



H H O O O 



According to this the terminal alcohol groups in mannitol, though 
unconnected directly with an asymmetric carbon atom, assume pre- 
ferentially different positions in virtue of the attractive and repulsive 
forces exercised by the remaining hydroxyl groups. 

This fact explains the resistance of mannitol to complete alkyla- 
tion, one of the terminal primary hydroxyl groups remaining unat- 
tacked although the other offers no such resistance. The constitution 
of pentamethylmannitol is — 

OMe H H OMe OMe OH 

CHj C ' 'C C C CH^ 

bMe OMe H H 
6 54321 

Complete methylation would thus involve the substitution of three 
adjacent hydroxyl groups on the same side of the carbon chain ; such 
a process would naturally present difficulties which would not arise 
were the terminal carbon atom able to take up either position. 



90 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

According to the older views a di- derivative of mannitol involving 
groups I and 2 would be identical with one in which 5 and 6 were 
similarly substituted. On the basis of the new formula this would not 
be the case, but Irvine and Steel have been able to demonstrate for the 
methyl derivatives that though mannitol contains six reactive hydroxyl 
groups numbers i and 2 are unique, and principally responsible for 
the increase in conductivity of mannitol in presence of boric acid* 

aa-Diaryl derivatives of the alcohols have been obtained by Paal 
by the application of the Grignard reaction to fully acetylated gluco- 
nolactone. Diphenyl, ditolyl and dibenzyl sorbitol and dulcitol are 
thus prepared. The dulcitol compound on warming readily forms an 
internal anhydride, probably — 



-0- 



H OH 



H 



CPh, C C C C . CH.OH 



OH H 

Mannitol has been converted into methyl-a-pyrone, 

^CH . CHMe. 

cnf ^O.by treatment with formic acid. The diformate of 

\CH : CH--'^ 

the mannitan, C^HuOj, decomposes into carbon dioxide and the 
pyrone and also into carbon monoxide and isomannide (Windaus and 
Tomich). 

The Inositols or Cycloses. 

The molecular formula C^jH^Og is common not only to the im- 
portant classes of aldohexoses and ketohexoses, but is shared by certain 
cyclic polyalcohols such as the hexahydrocyclohexanes. These sub- 
stances, a number of which are found in nature generally associated 
with true sugars, contain no carbonyl group and are therefore not, 
strictly speaking, members of the carbohydrates. On the other hand, 
they are not only isomeric with the latter but possess a sweet taste, 
are high-melting crystalline compounds, generally soluble in water, 
and exist in various stereoisomeric modifications, some of which are 
optically active ; so that the superficial resemblance to the true hexoses 
is close and justifies their inclusion in a work dealing with natural 
carbohydrates. 

^ Many sugar and other polyhydroxyl alcohols have their specific rotation increased in 
the presence of boric acid. Boeseken has shown that such increase is always accompanied 
by a notable increase in conductivity, and further that this double effect only takes place in 
compounds in which two hydroxyl groups are attached to neighbouring carbon atoms on 
the same side of the chain. 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 91 

• 

Moreover, a perhaps fanciful analogy may be drawn between the 
hexoses C^HijOg, the methylpentoses C^HuOj, and the methyltetrose 
digitoxose QH^qO^ on the one hand, and the following series of 
natural cycloses in which the number of hydroxy! groups are simi- 
larly decreased : — 

CgHj^Og the inositols, 
CgHi^Gi the quercitols, 
and C^HjjO^ of which quinic acid, CeH7(OH)4 . COOH, is a carboxylic acid 

derivative. 

If the series is extended to the members CgHuO,, CgHuOj and 
CgHijO, it becomes clear that these compounds are simply hydro- 
genated phenols ; the less oxygenated members of the group have not 
been found in nature, but hexahydrophenol, C5Hii(0H), quinitol or 
hexahydroquinol, CgHijj(OH)j,, and phloroglucitol (hexahydrophloro- 
glucinol), CcH9(OH)3, have been prepared synthetically by the Sabatier 
method of hydrogenation of the respective phenols over reduced nickel, 
whilst quinitol was first synthesised by Baeyer by alkaline reduction 
of/-diketphexamethylene, and phloroglucitol had been similarly pre* 
pared from phloroglucinol and sodium amalgam. 

It is of interest that just as glycollic aldehyde is the first sweet 
tasting sugar in the monosaccharides, so quinitol possesses a sweetish 
taste, although hexahydrophenol does not ; as usual, the presence in 
close contiguity in the molecule of more than one hydroxyl group 
appears necessary for the development of this property, at all events 
in the case of simple compounds of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. 

The stereoisomerism of the cycloses demands some explanation, since 
it is not due to the simple *' atomic" asymmetry of the carbon atoms 
as in the simple sugars. Thus, in the case of the inositols QHg(OH)f 
there are no " asymmetric carbon atoms " of the conventional type, 
but both dextro- and laevo-rotatory forms of /the substance are known ; 
if, however, the steric formula be examined it will be seen that the 
hydroxyl groups may lie on either side of the plane of the carbon 
ring-system. 

For example we may have : — . 



H H OH OH H H 

H/OH OH\h h/H h\ OH OH /OH OH 



H^ 



C\ >C C\ \C andC/ ;C 

OH\H H/OH OiKOH OH^h h\ H H/OH 

OH OH H H OH OH 

(i) (ii) (iii) 



92 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

(i) is a symmetrically arranged molecule identical with its mirror 
image, but (ii) and (iii) are mirror-images of each other and non-super- 
posable, although it is difficult to show this clearly in a plane illus- 
tration. The total number of possible optical isomerides of the inosi- 
tols may be arrived at by considering the possible number of hydroxyl 
groups on the "upper" side of the carbon-ring plane in formulae of 
of the above type : — 

Naof 





Hydroxyl 
Groups. 






No. of Pormt. 


(a) 

m 


O 

I 


X optically 


inactive, 
active. 


i'l 


2 


3 


f» 


inactive. 


M 

E' 


3 

4 

5 
6 


3 

3 

I 

I 


»* 
*i 
1* 
If 


If 

„ (identical with {c)). 

active (the optical antipode of (6)). 

inactive (identical with (a)). 



Of these seven distinct possibilities of optically inactive (meso) 
forms, and two possible enantiomorphic optically active forms, the rf- 
and /- forms of inositol correspond to configurations (ii) and (iii) in the 
diagram and to {b) and (/) in the table, but it is not known to^ which of 
the classes (^), (c) or (d)^ the four inactive or meso varieties so far identi- 
fied, belong. 

Similarly, there are ten possible distinct configurations of quercitol, 
C^H7(OH)5, eight optically active and two unresolvable inactive 
(meso) modifications, but only two are known, a dextro-rotatory 
variety and a laevo-rotatory variety which is not the optical antipode 
of the former. 

The cyclose group may possibly be produced in nature by the 
union of the ends of the six-carbon hexose chain, but such a trans- 
formation has not hitherto been effected in the laboratory. 

The only instance of a complex organic compound being obtained 
from both the ordinary carbohydrates and from the inositols is the 
formation of furfural when m^^-inositol is distilled with phosphoric 
anhydride in a copper vessel (Neuberg). 

Inositols, C^Hg(OH)j. 

Six of the nine inositols predicted by theory have been described, 
namely, the natural optically active forms of d- and /-inositol, two 
naturally occurring tneso forms, /-inositol and scyllitol, and two other 
meso forms obtained by Hugo Muller by chemical treatment of /-inosi- 
tol and named tsoAnositoX and '^inositol. 

No precise configuration is yet attached to any of the inactive 
forms. 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 93 

A'lnosttoHs prepared by boiling its naturally-occurring monomethyl 
ether, ptnitol^ C7H14O5, with concentrated hydriodic acid ; it crystal- 
lises in anhydrous prisms which melt at 2^7'*-2^2!' C, and have 
[ajn + 65°; it does not show mutarotation. 

Pinitoly also known as matezite or sennite^ was discovered in 1856 
by Berthelot in the resin of the Californian pine, Pinus lambertiana 
(Dougl.). It also occurs in the residues from the manufacture of 
coniferin in senna leaves and in Madagascar rubber. Its structure was 
established by Maquenne. 

VInositol was obtained by Tanret by demethylation of quebrachitol 
in 1889. It crystallises in needles which melt at 247°, [ajp - 65°. 
The monomethyl ether quebrachitol is found in quebrache bark. 

The racemic inositol, composed of equimolecular proportions of 
the d- and /-isomerides, may be prepared by crystallisation of a 
mixture of the latter in equal quantities, and melts at ass"" C. It was 
found, with i-inositol, in the fresh ripe berries of mistletoe by Tanret 
in 1907. 

MesO' or /-inositol {dambose^ nucite) is widely distributed in plants 
and animals ; it is found in the muscles and various organs of oxen 
and horses and in the urine in Bright's disease. In the vegetable 
world it occurs in the Leguminosae, in the leaves of asparagus, the 
oak, ash and walnut, and in all parts of the grape vine, and also in 
many fungi. Its chief sources of extraction are walnut leaves and 
mistletoe. It crystallises in bunches of needles and melts at 22 5^ 
It does not reduce Fehling's solution and is not fermented by yeast, 
but is attacked by certain fungi. The hexacetate forms monoclinic 
plates and melts at 2 1 2'' C. 

When /-inositol is evaporated almost to dryness with nitric acid and 
then again carefully evaporated with calcium chloride solution a rose- 
red solution is obtained ; if ammoniacal strontium acetate is substituted 
for the calcium salt a violet tint is produced (Scherer's reaction). Both 
these colour tests are excessively delicate, especially the latter. 

H. Miiller found that treatment of /-inositol with a solution of 
hydrochloric or hydriodic acid in acetic acid transformed it partially 
into two other meso forms : — 

iso-Inositoly crystals melting at 246^-2 50*", readily soluble in water, 
insoluble in alcohol, but soluble in boiling 50 per cent alcohol, and 
tasting faintly sweet ; and 

'^'Inositoly an amorphous or microcrystalline compound, very 
soluble in water, but very sparingly so in alcohol. 



94 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

The monomethyl ether of /-inositol, Bomesitol^ occurs in Borneo 
rubber, and the dimethyl ether, Dambanitol^ in Gabon rubber. 

Phytifiy a compound of i-inositol and phosphoric acid, is an im- 
portant derivative of /-inositol found in the seeds of many plants. It 
was isolated from rice bran as inositol phosphoric acid by Winter- 
stein and from maize meal by Vorbrodt It is stable at 115*' C, but 
in presence of water at \^^ C is resolved into phosphoric acid and 
inositol. 

Contardi synthesised an inositol hexaphosphate in 191 2 by the 
action of phosphoric acid on inositol at 120''- 130'' C. in the absence of 
air, and considered it to be probably identical with the phytin in 
seeds. 

Anderson at about the same period recorded unsuccessful attempts 
to obtain the hexaphosphate synthetically, obtaining only tetraphos- 
phates of the formula C0H«(OH),O4[RO(OH)8]4, and inositol derivatives 
of pyrophosphoric acid 

Scyllitol^ the other natural inactive form of inositol, was formerly 
known by the three names of scyllitol, cocositol and quercine, but 
H. Miiller showed in 191 2 that all three were identical. 

Scyllitol was discovered by Staedeler and Friedrichs in 1858 in 
various orgajfe of the spur dog-fish {Plagiostomiy H. Miiller found 
it in 1907 in the leaves of Cocos nudfera (Linn.) and Cocos plumosa 
(Hook), assigning to it at that time the name ^'cocositol". It also 
occurs in acorns. 

The formation of the same complex organic product in such different 
oiiganisms as those of the cocoa-nut palm and oak on the one hand, 
and the spur dog-fish on the other is very remarkable. 

Scyllitol is optically inactive, forms hard lustrous monoclinic 
prisms which melt at 349*^-3 50"* C, is sparingly soluble in water, gives 
Scherer's colour reaction and yields the customary acetyl, benzoyl, 
etc, esters. 

Quercitols, QH/OH)^. 

As previously mentioned, two optically active forms of the quercitols 
are found in planta 

d'Quercitol occurs in acorns and in small quantities in the cork 
and bark of oak. H. Muller also obtained it from the leaves of 
ChanuBTops humilis (Linn.), the only European representative of the 
palm-family, which was formerly used like esparto for paper-making. 
The leaves contain i '3 5 per cent of quercitol. 

rf-Quercitol crystallises in prisms and melts at 234"* C. ; its rotatory 



HEXOSES, PENTOSES, CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS 95 

power is [a]j, + 20°. It is not fermentable. It gives pentacetates 
and similar esters, thus possessing five hydroxyl groups in the mole- 
cule. Oxidation with permanganate leads to the formation of malonic 
acid and other products which confirm its structural formula as penta- 
hydroxycyclohexane. 

\-Quercitol vfKS obtained by Power and Tutin in 1904 from the 
leaves of Gymnema sylvestre (R.Br.). It crystallises in prisms from 
water and in needles from alcohol and melts at 174'' C, having 
[«]d "" 74**- It gives penta-acetyl and penta-benzoyl compounds, and 
yields with sodium hypobromite a diketotrihydroxycyclohexane, 
C«HA(OH),. 

d- and /-Quercitol are not optical antipodes. 

Quinic Add, CjH7(OH)4COOH. 

Quinicacidxs a carboxylic derivative of a tetrahydroxycyclohexane 
occurring in cinchona bark, coffee beans, bilberries and other plants. 
It melts at 162'' and is optically active. When it is submitted to dry 
distillation, phenol, quinol, benzoic acid and salicylaldehyde are pro- 
duced. Oxidising agents convert it into a variety of common aromatic 
compounds, notably quinone and hydroquinone. Certain ferments 
attack it, producing a mixture of the lower fatty acids in absence of 
air, whilst in presence of air protocatechuic acid is formed. 

Quinidey C7H10O5, melting at 198°, an optically inactive lactone of 
quinic acid, is produced by heating the natural acid at 220''-240'' C, 
and when this compound is hydrolysed with milk of lime an optically 
inactive form of quinic acjd is produced. 

Shikimic Acid, C.H8(OH)aCOOH. 

The only natural representative of the trihydroxycyclohexanes at 
present known is shikimic acid, which is found in the fruit of Illicium 
religiosum, and is an analogue of quinic acid. 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE DISACCHARIDES. 

The disaccharides or compound sugars are carbohydrates containing 
twelve carbon atoms and consist of two simple six-carbon atom 
residues united through an oxygen atoncL They are thus analogous to 
the simple glucosides, and when acted upon by hydrolytic agents — 
acid or enzymes — they break down by combining with a molecule of 
water into their constituent simpler hexoses, which may be either 
aldoses or ketoses : — 

Ci,H„Ou + HjO = CeH„0, + C,HuO^ 

One of the constituent hexoses 'unctions in the same manner as 
glucose does in the methyl glucosides : the aldehydic or ketonic group 
of the second hexose may remain functional or it may disappear. In 
the former case, the disaccharide reduces cupric salts, forms an osazone, 
and exhibits mu trotation behaving just as glucose does ; in the latter 
all these properties are absent. Accordingly, the disaccharides are 
classified under two types. 

The table on opposite page contains the better-known disaccha- 
rides with their component hexoses and optical rotatory power. 
Some trisaccharides are also included ; also the tetrasaccharide, 
stachyose. 

The disaccharides of type i form sparingly soluble phenyl osazones, 
which are difficult to purify, similar to one another and do not show 
sharp melting-points as they decompose at the melting-point ; more- 
over, both melting-point and crystalline form are greatly altered by 
small quantities of impurities. The hydrazones, even those prepared 
from asymmetrically disubstituted phenyl hydrazines, are too soluble, 
as a rule, to be used for the isolation of disaccharides from aqueous 
solutions. 

The difficulty attending research in this group lies in the fact that 

no really characteristic derivatives of the disaccharides, by means of 

which they can be isolated and identified with certainty, are known, 

and partly for this reason but little progress has been made in the 

direction of their synthesis. 

96 



THE DISACCHARIDES 



97 





TABLE XV. 




Sugar. 


Components. 


RoUtory Power. 




DXSACCHARIDBS. . 




Type J.— Aldehyde Group Potentially Functional, 




w Maltose 
Isomaltose 
Gentiobiose 
Cdlose 

wLactose 
Isolactose 
Melibiose 
Turanose 


Glucose-a-glucoside 

Glucose-/3-glucoside 

Glucose-jS-glucoside 

Glucose-/3-glucoside 

GIucose-jB-galactoside 

Glucose-galactoside 

Glucose-galactoside 

Glucose and fructose 

Type 2. — No Reducing Properties, 


+ 138° 
+ 84-4" 
+ 9-6** 
+ 34-6° 

+ Sa-S"* 

? 

+ 143° 
+ 71*8'' 


' Sucrose 
Trehalose 
Isotrehalose 


Glucose and fructose 
Glucose and glucose 
Glucose and glucose 

Trisaccharidbs. 


+ 66-50 

+ 197'' 
- 58° 


Type I. 
Mannotriose 
Rhamninose 


Glucose + galactose + galactose 
Glucose + rhamnose + rhamnose 


+ 1670 
- 41" 


Ramnose 

Gentianose 

Melicitose 


Galactose + glucose + fructose 
Glucose + glucose + fructose 
Glucose + glucose + fructose 

Tetrasaccharidb. 


+ 123" 

+ 31** 
+ 88-5<» 


Tyfe a. 
Stacnyoee 


Fructose + glucose + galactose + galactose 


+ 148* 



Maltose, lactose and melibiose, which reduce Fehling's solution^ 
form hydrazones and osazones with phenyl hydrazine and combine 
with hydrogen cyanide, contain, like glucose, an aldehyde group or its 
equivalent. Since they all show mutarotation, and exist in two 
modifications, there is no doubt that, like glucose, they possess a 
closed-ring structure rather than a free aldehyde group. In solution 
they exist as an equilibrated mixture of dynamic isomerides. Both 
halves of the molecules thus possess a butylene-oxidic structure, one 
section only retaining the aldehyde group potentially functional. 

Interest in the configuration of the disaccharides centres round 
three main points : — 

(i) The nature of the component hexoses. 

(2) Whether they represent a- or yS-glucosides. 

(3) Which hydroxyl group is concerned in the attachment of the 

two hexose residues ? 
The solution of the first of these problems is a simple matter. The 
second question has been answered in two ways : firstly, by studying 

7 



98 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

the behaviour of the sugar towards the enzymes, maltase and emulsin 
— if hydrolysed by the former it is an o-glucoside, if by the latter a 
j8-glucoside ; secondly, by studying the optical behaviour of the glucose 
immediately produced, on hydrolysing the sugar with an enzyme, 
towards a drop of alkali — downward mutarotation classes it as an 
a-glucose, upward mutarotation indicates the presence of /3-glucose. 
The third question has begun to be solved satisfactorily ; and it has 
been possible to show for maltose, lactose, melibiose and sucrose which 
groups are concerned in the junction. 

Assuming the primary alcohol group to be concerned in the attach- 
ment of the two hexose residues four isomeric diglucoses with reducing 
properties are possible. The attachment of the two glucoses may be 
either a or fi, and the free aldose group will exist in a and p modifi- 
cations. Maltose or lactose in solution represents, like glucose, an 
equilibrated mixture of two isomerides : the solid disaccharides corre- 
spond to more or less pure single substances. 

Considerations based on the numerical relations among the rotatory 
powers of the disaccharides make it probable that the left-hand glucose 
residues in lactose and cellose have identical structures, whereas maltose 
and gentiobiose do not agree with either melibiose or lactose as re- 
gards the structure of this glucose molecule. 

Three isomerides are conceivable of the non-reducing diglucose 
according as two a-glucoses, two j3-glucoses or an a- and a yS-glucose 
are linked together. These three disaccharides will be single substances 
either as solid or in solution and they should crystallise more freely 
than maltose. 

The compound sugars of type 2 which contain fructose are re- 
garded as members of the sucrose groi^p since they all contain the 
sucrose union and are hydrolysed by invertase. Hudson has established 
that for sugars of this group, which yield fructose and an aldose on 
hydrolysis, the molecular rotation of the aldose is less than that of its 
parent sugar by 2340 for its alpha form and 19,300 for its beta form. 
The specijfic rotation of the a and fi forms of melibiose, gentiobiose 
and mannotriose calculated in this manner agree with those deduced 
by other methods. 

In the following pages the individual disaccharides are briefly dealt 
with. The problems connected with their hydrolysis and synthesis 
are deferred to Chapter VI. 



THE DISACCHARIDES 99 

Sucrose. 

Sucrose or cane sugar, industrially the most important of the 
sugars, is widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, where it 
functions almost entirely as a reserve material. In contrast to most of 
the sugars, it crystallises exceedingly readily : this is almost certainly 
due to the fact that a single substance and not a mixture of isomerides 
is present in solution. It is very soluble in water, and has a much 
sweeter taste than glucose, but is not so sweet as invert sugar. 

Cane sugar does not reduce Fehling's solution nor exhibit muta- 
rotation, and it lacks both aldehydic and ketonic properties. Very 
characteristic is the behaviour towards mineral acids which hydrolyse 
it to glucose and fructose. Sucrose is dextro-rotatory, but, since 
fructose is more laevo-rotatory than glucose is dextro-rotatary, the 
products of hydrolysis rotate polarised light in the opposite sense to 
cane sugar. The change in rotation is from + 66 -5° to - 20°: the 
process is hence termed inversion, and the product invert sugar. The 
like change is brought about by an enzyme present in yeasts, moulds, 
in many plants, also in bees and other animals, and termed invertase 
or sucrase. Cane sugar is fermented by yeasts only after previous 
inversion with the invertase of the yeast. Accordingly, it is not fer- 
mented by yeasts which do not contain invertase, e.g. S. octosfiorus. 

Sucrose forms no compounds with phenyl hydrazine, and is stable 
towards alkali : this is in marked contrast to the behaviour of the 
aldoses and ketoses. Sucrose will withstand heating in alkaline 
solution at temperatures up to 1 30"* without appreciable decomposition. 
It also does not give rise to glucosidic derivatives. It contains eight 
hydroxyl groups, as evidenced by the formation of an octa-acetate and 
an octa-methyl derivative, but gives rise to one form only of these 
derivatives. 

It forms saccharates, CisH^iOjiM, with sodium and potassium 
hydroxides and more complex saccharates with lime, strontia and 
baryta. 

Until recently it was not possible to ascribe a constitutional 
formula to sucrose which was entirely satisfactory. It is at one and 
the same time a glucoside and a fructoside in which the hexose units 
are joined so as to destroy both aldehyde and ketone groups and give 
a neutral product There is much evidence in favour of assigning a 
butylene-oxide structure to the glucose residue and an ethylene-oxide 
structure to the fructose residue so that it may be formulate;!d as first 
proposed by Howarth and Law : — 



lOO THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

o 



. CH . fCH . OH), . CH = 



CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OH), . CH = glucose residue 



O 

/ 
CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . C . CHj(OH) = fructose residue 

\/ 
O 

In the older formula of Fischer, which in turn was a modification 
of the earlier one of Tollens, a butylene-oxide structure was assigned 
to both halves of the molecule. 

The behaviour of sucrose towards enzymes indicates that it is not 
a simple glucoside or fructoside ; it is not hydrolysed by maltase and 
the butylene-oxide )8-methyl fructoside is not hydrolysed by invertase. 
Invertase is remarkably active in hydrolysing sucrose, and its action 
seems to be controlled and inhibited by both glucose and fructose ; 
apparently the enzyme is so constituted that it can adapt itself to 
both sections of the disaccharide. The question is further discussed 
in Chapter VI. 

The extraordinary instability of sucrose in presence of acids also 
differs markedly from the behaviour of the simple glucosides, but it is 
in better agreement with the proposed formula containing an ethylene- 
oxide ring, as is indicated on page 133. 

According to Howarth and Law on hydrolysis of sucrose the 
following series of changes take place, the final products consisting of 
the equilibrium mixtures A and C together perhaps with a small pro- 
portion of B : — 

A B c 

Sucrose [->] a-glucose + a-fructose [fj] a-fructose 

t t \ \ \ \ 

)8-glucose ^-fructose [ij] y8-fructose 

(Butylene- {Ethylene- (Butylene- 

oxide oxide oxide 

forms). forms). forms). 

The arrows in brackets represent changes involving structure ; the 
others indicate stereochemical interconversions. 

The formula of Howarth and Law is based on the behaviour of 
octamethyl sucrose on hydrolysis. The optical change is small — from 
+ 667* to + 57** — whereas had the known butylene-oxide forms of 
tetramethyl glucose and fructose been obtained an end value of - 18** 
was to be expected. Actually an ethylene-oxide form of tetramethyl 
fructose having a rotatory power of + 29-3° is formed. The hydroly- 
sis may thus be formulated : — 



THE DISACCHARIDES loi 

Octamcthyl sucrose [->] Tetramethyl + tetramethyl 

a-glucose a-fructose 

U It 

tetramethyl tetramethyl 
/8-glucose )8-fructose 

(Butylene- (Ethylene- 

oxide forms). oxide forms). 

The statement that a-glucose is a constituent of sucrose is based 
on the optical changes on hydrolysis of both sucrose and octamethyl- 
sucrose ; it still requires other confirmation. 

Trehalose. 

Trehalose, which occurs widely distributed in fungi, is composed 
of two glucose molecules fused together, so that both aldehydic groups 
have disappeared : — 

o 1 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHn^ 
CHj(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH{OH) . CH(OH) . Ch/ 

' ^o- ! 

This structure is indicated by the fact that it does not reduce 
Fehling's solution or form a phenyl osazone or exhibit mutarotation. 
It is not affected by the enzymes maltase, invertase, emulsin or dia- 
stase, but is hydrolysed by a special enzyme named trehalase, which 
is contained in certain fungi and in many species of yeast. Tre- 
halase is conveniently obtained from Aspergillus niger. According to 
Winterstein trehalose is only hydrolysed by acids with considerable 
difficulty, and contrasts markedly in this respect with sucrose. Pre- 
sumably the glucose molecules react in the butylene-oxide form. 

Trehalose crystallises in lustrous rhombic prisms [ajo + IQ/"- 
The best source for its preparation is Selaginella lepidophylla (the 
resurrection plant) obtainable in large quantities in the arid South- 
west of America ; this contains 2 per cent, of the sugar which is 
readily crystallised (Ansel mino and Gilg). 

Trehalose is also a constituent of sea- weeds. Some of the Flaridea 
contain up to lo per cent, of the dried material. It is absent from 
the Fucoidece where it is replaced by a laevo-rotatory disaccharide, 
termed laminareose, which has not been isolated. Kylin finds that 
laminarin, the dextrin-like polysaccharide of these plants, consists of 
a series of closely related substances with a specific rotation varying 
from - 7' to - 32° as their molecular weight falls. It is hydrolysed by 
malt diastase to glucose and constitutes a reserve food-stuff analogous 



102 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

to starch which is utilised by the sea- weed for growth and reproduction 
during the winter. 

Apparently trehalose replaces sucrose in those plants (fungi) which 
contain no chlorophyll and do not manufacture starch. The quantity 
of trehalose is a maximuni just before the formation of spores. When 
the fungi are picked the trehalose is rapidly converted into mannitol^ 
being hydrolysed by its enzyme to glucose, which is in some way 
then reduced. To obtain it, the fungi must be extracted with boiling 
solvents, so as to kill the enzyme, within two or three hours after 
gathering. 

As indicated on page 144 there are three possible combinations of 
the two glucose molecules in trehalose. Hudson has calculated the 
specific rotations of these forms to be a/3 + 70°, aa + 197°, fi/3 - 58**, 
and thus identifies the natural sugar as the aa form. It is probable 
that the fil3 form is represented by £f^trehalose, which, in an amorphous 
impure state, had a^ - 39**. It was prepared by Fischer and Delbruck 
by saponification of the octacetate obtained on condensing two mole- 
cules of acetobromoglucose in presence of silver carbonate and is 
stated to be easily hydrolysed on warming with dilute acids. 

MALTOSE. 

Glucose-a-Glucoside. 

A sugar was first isolated from the products of hydrolysis of starch 
by De Saussure in 1819, but it was not until 1847 that this new sugar 
was further examined by Dubrunfaut and named maltose. This dis- 
covery seems to have lapsed into comparative oblivion until the sugar 
was rediscovered by O'Sullivan in 1872. Maltose is prepared by the 
action of diastase on starch, the only other product of the change 
being dextrin. It crystallises in minute needles, has a high dextro- 
rotatory power and exhibits upward mutarotation, i.e. the rotatory 
power when the disaccharide is first dissolved is smaller than the 
equilibrium value. 

Maltose reduces Fehling's solution, forms a phenyl osazone, and 
shows many other of the properties of glucose. 

When hydrolysed by acids two molecules of glucose are formed 
It is very much more resistant to acid hydrolysis than cane sugar. 

The enzymes diastase, invertase, lactase and emulsin are without 
action, maltase alone of all the known enzymes being able to effect 
hydrolysis. Maltose is fermented only by those yeasts which contain 
maltase, and then not until inversion has been brought about by the 



THE DISACCHARIDES 103 

enzyme. In view of the behaviour of maltose towards maltase, it is 
considered to be a glucose-a-glucoside, since it is only a-glucosides 
which are hydrolysed by maltase ; and in confirmation of this view 
a-glucose has been proved to be formed initially on hydrolysis. 

Maltose yields, on oxidation with bromine, an acid containing the 
same number of carbon atoms, which is termed maltobionic acid ; this 
is hydrolysed to glucose and gluconic acid by mineral acids. Maltose 
combines with hydrogen cyanide, forming a compound which, on 
hydrolysis, gives maltose carboxylic acid, and is hydrolysed by 
mineral acids to glucose and glucoheptonic acid. Maltose must con- 
tain eight hydroxyl groups, as it gives an octa-acetyl derivative when 
acetylated. The behaviour of maltose is in accord with the constitu- 
tional formulae below. As already stated, it is not known which 
carbon atom is concerned in the attachment of the two sugar residues. 
Provisionally, the terminal carbon atom is so represented (see Chapter 
VI.) :— 

CH2(0H).CH{0H).CH.[CH.0H]a.CH— O.CHa.CH(OH).eH.[CH.OH]j.CH.OH 




O- 

Strong confirmation of this structure is afforded by the behaviour 
of maltose on oxidation with alkaline hydrogen peroxide, studied by 
Lewis and Buckborough. Relatively large amounts of glycollic acid 
glucoside are formed, showing that the primary alcohol carbon atom 
is concerned in the attachment. The participation of the first, second 
and third atoms from the free aldehyde group in the glucoside union 
is precluded by the formation of a- and )8- />^-saccharinic acids on 
oxidation, and the non-formation of glyceric acid glucoside excludes 
the fourth atom. 

Maltose forms a glucoside analogous to methyl glucoside, but the 
direct condensation with methyl alcohol in presence of acid is not 
possible, as the disaccharide becomes hydrolysed during the operation. 
/9-Methyl maltoside has been prepared from acetochloro maltose, ob- 
tained by the action of hydrogen chloride on maltose octa-acetate. 
Acetochloro maltose interacts with methyl alcohol in presence of 
silver carbonate, forming hepta-acetyl methyl maltoside, which is con- 
verted into methyl maltoside on hydrolysis with baryta. The be- 
haviour of this maltoside towards enzymes is interesting. Maltase 
hydrolyses it at the a-junction, forming glucose and )8-methyl gluco- 
side ; emulsin attacks only the ^-junction, forming maltose and methyl 
alcohol. The maltoside is accordingly ^-methyl glucose-a-glucoside. 

The conversion of maltose octa-acetate into )8-methyl maltoside 



I04 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

fixes it as a /8-derivative, and since this acetate is the main product of 
the acetylation of solid maltose it is probable that maltose belongs to 
the fi series. The rotatory power of crystalline maltose, unlike that 
of glucose, increases in solution. According to Hudson's rule maltose 
is a )3 compound. 

Isomaltose. 

Isomaltose is the name given by Fischer to the disaccharide ob- 
tained by him by the condensing action of strong acids on glucose. 
It was characterised only by means of the phenyl osazone and the fact 
that it is not fermented by yeast Products similar to isomaltose have 
been repeatedly described as obtained in the hydrolysis of starch, e.g. 
gallisin, but, failing any characteristic derivative, definite proof of its 
presence in such cases is lacking. Isomaltose is probably identical 
with the disaccharide obtained by Croft Hill by the synthetic action 
of maltase on glucose (see Chapter VI.) which he has termed rever- 
tose. E. F. Armstrong has shown that isomaltose is hydrolysed by 
emulsin, but not by invertase or maltase, and considers the isomaltose 
obtained by means of acids or enzymes to be the same in each case. 
The behaviour towards emulsin and maltase suggests that it is prob- 
ably glucose-/3-gIucoside. 

A quantitative study of the action of hydrochloric acid of much 
lower strength (07 normal) than used by Fischer on glucose has been 
made by Harrison. He isolated unfermentable isomaltose, ao + 84-4*' 
and showed that in 52 per cent, glucose solution the final ratio of iso- 
maltose to glucose is 2:3. Davis finds that synthesis of isomaltose 
takes place in a I per cent, solution of glucose in fuming hydrochloric 
acid (40 per cent. acid). 

CELLOSE (CELLOBIOSE.) 

Glucose-)9-g:lucoside. 

Cellulose (filter paper) when acetylated with acetic anhydride and 
a small amount of sulphuric acid forms a-cellose octacetate, among 
other products, from which the corresponding sugar, cellose, is ob- 
tained on hydrolysis with alcoholic potash. 

Cellose forms a fine crystalline powder, m.p. 225"*, and has a faintly 
sweet taste ; it is much less 'soluble than sucrose. It exhibits muta- 
rotation, reduces Fehling's solution and forms a phenylosazone and 
osone. Acetochloro, acetobromo and other derivatives are known, 
cellose behaving exactly like maltose or lactose. 



THE DISACCHARIDES 105 

The a-octacetate prepared by acetylation of the sugar in presence 
of zinc chloride or sulphuric acid has m.p. 229', [aj^ +41°. The )8- 
octacetate is obtained on acetylation in presence of sodium acetate and 
has m.p. 202°, [a]jy - 1 5°. It is readily transformed into the a-isomeride 
on heating with acetic anhydride in presence of sulphuric acid, so that 
the production of a-octacetate by the acetolysis of cellulose does not 
indicate whether cellulose is a condensation product of a- or ^-cellose. 
Klein has shown that it is possible to obtain 30 per cent, of the 
theoretical yield of cellose octacetate indicating that at least one-third 
of the monosaccharides in cellulose are united as in cellose. 

Cellose is not attacked by the enzymes of yeast (maltase). It is 
hydrolysed by emulsin,and slowly by Kephir lactase and hy Aspergillus 
niger. Fischer points out that inasmuch as emulsin is a mixture of 
enzymes it is not certain that the same enzyme which hydrolyses 
>8-methylglucoside also resolves cellose, gentiobiose and isomaltose. 
Bertrand and Compton have established the individuality of cellase, 
the enzyme acting on cellose, and shown that cellase and emulsin occur 
together in plants in variable proportions. There is, however, con- 
siderable similarity in the behaviour of lactose and cellose towards 
enzymes, and this analogy becomes all the more striking when Hud- 
son's proof that the glucose residues in these two sugars have similar 
structures is considered. 

When methylated cellulose is hydrolysed the most characteristic 
methylated glucose obtained is a crystalline trimethylglucose. Denham 
and Woodhouse have established the formula of this as : — 

CHa(OMe) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OMe), . CH(OH) 

' o ! 

It is definitely a butylene-oxide compound. 

Should the same trimethyl derivative be derived from cellose, and 
taking into account also the similarity between the glucose residues 
in cellose and lactose, it is possible to suggest the following structural 
formula for cellose : — 

CHj(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH(0H)]2CH . = glucoside 

\ residue 

O 




HO . CH . (CH . 0H)5|CH . CH . CHa(OH) = glucose 

residue 

O- 



io6 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

GENTIOBIOSE. 

Glucose-^S-fflucoside. 

Gentiobiose is closely allied to maltose, isomaltose and cellose, being 
composed of two glucose molecules. It is found in the form of a tri- 
saccharide, termed gentianose, present in the roots of various species 
of gentians ; when partially hydrolysed either by means of invertase 
or dilute acids this yields fructose and gentiobiose. The octacetate is 
conveniently obtained direct from powdered gentian root (Zemplen), 
and Hudson has obtained as much as lo grams per kilo of the dry 
root in this way. 

Grentiobiose shows mutarotation, the a and /3 forms having rotation 
+ 39° and - ii** respectively and the equilibrium mixture - 9-6^ 
It forms a phenylosazone, m.p. 1 60°- 170°: other derivatives are the 
a- and /8-octacetates and ^-methylgentiobioside which has [a]o 36**. 

It is hydrolysed by emulsin and is therefore a /S-glucoside. Bour- 
quelot has prepared and isolated it in a pure state by the action of 
emulsin on a concentrated solution of glucose, and his observations 
have been confirmed by Zemplen. It is concluded that gentiobiose 
and isomaltose are not identical, since whereas the octacetate of the 
former is readily isolated from very impure products an acetyl deriva- 
tive could not be obtained from isomaltose syrups. 

LACTOSK 

Glucose-)3-Galactoside. 

Lactose or milk sugar, discovered in 161 5 by Fabriccio Bartoletti, 
in Bologna, occurs in the milk of all animals, but has not been en- 
countered in the vegetable kingdom. It is manufactured by evapora- 
tion of whey, purified by recrystallisation, and obtained in the form of 
a white crystalline powder. Mineral acids hydrolyse it to glucose and 
galactose ; it exhibits mutarotation, reduces Fehling's solution, and 
forms a phenyl osazone soluble in boiling water. Like glucose it gives 
rise to two series of isomeric derivatives, e.g. octacetates, acetochloro 
lactoses and methyl lactosides. Three isomeric modifications of the 
sugar itself have been described corresponding to the a- and yS-iso- 
merides and their equilibrated mixture. It is a glucose galactoside, 
since, on oxidation with bromine, lactobionic acid is formed, and this 
when hydrolysed by mineral acids gives gluconic acid and galactose, 
proving that the potential aldehyde group is in the glucose part of the 
molecule* 



THE DISACCHARIDES 107 

Adopting Fischer's glucoside formula for lactose, it is a question, 
as previously indicated, whether the primary alcohol group or the 
8-secondary alcohol group of the glucose molecule takes part in the union 
with the galactose. The possibility of either the a- or 7-secondary 
alcohol groups being concerned is excluded by the facts that lactose 
forms a phenyl osazone, exhibits mutarotation, and gives rise to de- 
rivatives having a butylene-oxide structure. The /8-secondary alcohol 
group can also be excluded from consideration, as Ruff and Ollendorf 
have obtained, on oxidising the calcium salt of lactobionic acid by 
Fenton's method, a galactoarabinose sugar which forms a phenyl 
osazone in which this /8-alcohol group is involved. It must therefore 
be uncombined in the parent lactose. 

It remains therefore to decide in favour of the two remaining for- 
mulae. Here again as in the case of sucrose a study of the fully 
methylated lactose made by Howarth and Leitch enables a decision 
to be made. Heptamethyl methyl-lactoside, on hydrolysis at 80°, yields 
tetramethylgalactose and a trimethylglucose having the constitution : — 

CHa(OMe) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OMe), . CH . OH 

' O ^1 

This affords definite proof that the secondary alcohol group of the 
fifth or S-carbon atom of the glucose chain is concerned in the attach- 
ment of the two hexose sugars. 

Accordingly milk sugar has the constitution : — 

CH2(0H) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OH)s . CH . = /S-galactoside 

residue 




HO . CH . (CH . OH)s . CH . CH . CHJOH) = glucose 

residue 

-0 



The isomeric a and )8 forms of milk sugar, originally described by 
Tanret and investigated subsequently by Hudson, differ only with 
respect to the relative positions of the hydrogen and hydroxyl radicles 
attached to the carbon atom printed in clarendon type in the glucose 
half of the molecule. Tanret's 7-lactose is an equilibrated mixture, 
a-lactose is properly a-glucose-yS-galactoside, whereas /8-lactose is 
y3-glucose-)3-galactoside. 

The milk sugar of commerce is a-lactose, [a]^ + 90°- The /3 form 
has +35° and the equilibrated mixture + 55 '3°. 

Galactoarabinose is of interest as an example of a synthetical 
disaccharide containing both hexose and pentose sugars, It is 



io8 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

therefore akin to the natural sugar rhamninose. The formation of 
galactoarabinose affords additional proof that lactose is a galactoside. 

Lactose is hydrolysed by a specific enzyme lactase found in a few 
yeasts (or, more correctly, torulae), in some kefir preparations, and in 
the enzyme (crude emulsin) contained in an aqueous extract of ahnonds. 
It is believed that kefir lactase and almond lactase are not identical. 
Lactose is not hydrolysed by maltase, invertase, diastase, nor by any 
of the enzymes of dried brewers' yeast. Only those yeasts (torulae) 
which contain lactase are capable of fermenting milk sugar. Lactose 
is particularly prone to undergo lactic and butyric acid fermentations. 

Isolactose is the name given to a disaccharide obtained by Fischer 
and Armstrong by the synthetical action of the enzyme kefir lactase 
on a concentrated solution of equal parts of glucose and galactose, 
and isolated in the form of the phenyl osazone. It has not been 
further studied. 

MELIBIOSE. 

Glucose-y3-Galactoside. 

Melibiose, together with fructose, is obtained from the trisaccharide 
raffinose by hydrolysis with dilute acids or certain yeasts (Scheibler 
and Mittelmeier). It crystallises with diflficulty and it is advisable 
to remove the fructose from the products of hydrolysis of raffinose 
by fermentation with a top yeast before attempting to isolate it. 

Hudson obtains as much as 200 grammes from 500 grammes of 
raffinose by fermenting with baker's yeast in 10 per cent solution for 
36-48 hours. The sugar separates with difficulty from a thick syrup 
to which ethyl alcohol has been added, in monoclinic prisms. It is 
very soluble in water. 

It exhibits mutarotation, the a form having + IQ/"* the /8 form + 
125° and the equilibrium mixture + I43^ When hydrolysed with 
strong acids melibiose yields glucose and galactose. On reduction 
with sodium amalgam an alcohol, melibiitol, is formed. This, when 
hydrolysed, is converted into mannitol and galactose. Melibiose is 
thus a galactoside of glucose, i.e. very closely related to milk sugar. 

It forms a phenyl osazone, an osone, which latter decomposes to 
galactose and glucosone and a double series of derivatives in the same 
manner as lactose. 

Melibiose is slowly hydrolysed by emulsin, more rapidly by an 
enzyme contained in bottom fermentation, but not in top fermentation 
yeasts : this enzyme is appropriately termed melibiase. Melibiose is 



THE DISACCHARIDES 109 

not attacked by maltase, invertase or lactase. It affords a chemical 
means of distinguishing between top and bottom fermentation yeasts. 
It is apparently less easily hydrolysed by acids than is milk sugar. 

The difference between melibiose and milk sugar appears to depend 
upon which hydroxyl of the glucose molecule is united to the galacto* 
side (see types A and B, p. 132). 

In view of the proof of the structure of lactose afforded by Howarth 
and Leitch it is highly probable that in melibiose the glucose residue 
is attached to the galactoside through the terminal carbon of the 
chain : — 

I o 1 

CHa(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OH)j . CH = ^-galactoside residue 

> 

CH(OH) . (CH . OH), . CH . CH(OH) . CH, = glucose residue 
I O ^1 

The possibility, however, is not altogether excluded that the third 
carbon atom from the left in the glucose molecule is concerned. 

Added interest attaches to melibiose in view of its being the first 
natural disaccharide obtained synthetically (Fischer and Armstrong, 
see p. 143): it was prepared from acetochlorogalactose and sodium 
glucosate. 

Melibiosone, which can be prepared from the osazone by heating 
with benzaldehyde, is hydrolysed by emulsin or by melibiase to- 
galactose and glucosone. 

Turanose. 

Turanose was discovered by Alechin in 1890 as a product, together 
with glucose, of the partial hydrolysis of a trisaccharide, melicitose, 
with weak acids. He stated that it yielded two molecules of glucose 
on further hydrolysis, but Tanret subsequently showed that an equi- 
molecular mixture of glucose and fructose is produced. Turanose is 
hydrolysed with such difficulty that much of the fructose liberated is 
destroyed by the strong acid solutions that must be used. Turanose 
is thus an isomeride of sucrose, but differs from this in containing a free 
aldehydic group, since it forms a phenyl osazone and reduces Fehling's 
solution. It is said not to exhibit mutarotation and crystallises in 
colourless rounded grains, [0]^ + 71*8°. It is not at present known 
whether it is to be regarded as a fructoside or a glucoside. Invertase,^ 
maltase, emulsin and diastase are without action. 



no THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Vicianose. 

Vicianose was obtained by Bertrand from the seeds of a vetch ( Vicia 
angustifolid) where it is present in the form of a glucoside, vicianin, 
allied to amygdalin. Vicianose is glucose-arabinoside, since on oxida- 
tion and subsequent hydrolysis gluconic acid and arabinose are formed. 
Accordingly, in the glucoside the glucose group is attached to the 
benzaldehyde cyanhydrin. 

Strophantobiose. 

Strophantobiose is a component of the glucoside strophantin. 
When this glucoside is hydrolysed by hydrogen chloride in methyl 
alcohol methyl strophantobioside is formed. This does not reduce 
Fehling's solution and is hydrolysed by mineral acids to mannose, 
rhamnose and methyl alcohol. 

TRISACCHARIDES, CigHjaOij. 
Mannotriose. 

Mannotriose, m.p. 150°, [ajo + 167°, a colourless faintly sweet 
crystalline substance, is obtained from stachyose by the action of in- 
vertase or of dilute acetic acid It reduces Fehlings's solution and 
forms a phenyl osazone, m.p. I22°-I24° (Tanret). According to Bierry 
the compound, m.p. 193°-! 94°, described by Neuberg and Lachmann 
was impure. Mannotriose is hydrolysed by acids to glucose (one mole- 
cule) and galactose (two molecules). Bromine oxidises it to mannotri- 
onic acid which is hydrolysed by acids to gluconic acid and galactose, 
thus locating the glucose molecule at the end of the chain. The action 
of enzymes on mannotriose is still a matter of uncertainty. Bierry has 
shown that the intestinal juice of the snail probably first forms 
galactose and a disaccharide, glucose + galactose, which is subsequently 
hydrolysed. According to Neuberg and Lachmann glucose and a 
digalactose are formed by the action of almond emulsin. 

The constitution is probably 

I CHO . C,Hio04-0-CeHip04-0-CeHiiOe 

Glucose Galactose Galactose 



_^ V. 



Gluco-galactose. Digalactose. 



THE DISACCHARIDES in 



Rhamninose. 



Rhamninose, QgHj^Oi^, m.p. I35°-I40°, [a]o - 41°, is derived from 
the glucoside xanthorhamnin present in the Persian berry {Rhamnus in- 
fectorid). The berries also contain a specific enzyme, rhamninase, which 
resolves the glucoside into the trisaccharide and rhamnetin. The car- 
bohydrate forms colourless crystals which are somewhat sweet : it 
reduces Fehling's solution. On hydrolysis by mineral acids galactose 
and rhamnose (two molecules) are formed. The galactose is proved to 
be the terminal unit since the rhamninitol and rhamninonic acids, formed 
by reduction and oxidation respectively, are hydrolysed by acids to 
dulcitol or galactonic acid and rhamnose (two molecules). Rhamninose 
is not fermentable and the ordinary enzymes are without action. It ap- 
pears to be slowly hydrolysed by the intestinal juice of Helix. 

The formula may be written : — 

CHO . C.HioO^— O— CeHuO,— O— C,H„04 
Galactose. Rhamnose. Rhamnose. 

RafBnose. 

Raffinose, m,p. iiS^-iip'*, [a]^ + 104°. The best-known trisac- 
charide is raffinose which is often found in considerable amount in the 
sugar beet, and is present in other plants. The best source for the 
preparation of raffinose is cotton-seed meal which contains it to the 
extent of nearly 8 per cent. : this proportion of the weight of the 
cotton-seed cake that is produced annually in the United States amounts 
to 100,000 tons. The raffinose is extracted from the meal with water, 
and after purification by means of its barium salt, may be isolated from 
the latter by exact neutralisation of the barium with phosphoric acid. 
Strong mineral acids hydrolyse it completely to fructose, glucose and 
galactose in equal proportions. Dilute acids form melibiose and fructose. 
The action of enzymes on raffinose is more specialised ; invertase con- 
verts it into fructose and melibiose. Emulsin, however, hydrolyses it 
to sucrose and galactose. Bottom yeasts which contain both melibiase 
and invertase are able to ferment it completely. 

Raffinose has no reducing action and behaves chemically as cane 
sugar. The constitutional formula may be written : — 

CUIiiO,— O-CeHioO,— O— C,Hi,0, 
Fructose Glucose Galactose 

Sucrose. Melibiose. 



112 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Gentianose. 

Gentianose, m.p. 209°-2io°, [aj^ + 31 •2°-33*4°, is obtained in faintly 
sweet colourless crystalline plates by extracting fresh gentian roots with 
95 per cent, alcohol. It is non-reducing and is hydrolysed by invertase 
or very dilute acids to fructose and gentiobiose. Some emulsin prepara- 
tion^, in particular extracts of Aspergillus iHger^ convert it into glucose 
and sucrose (Bourquelot). Stronger acids hydrolyse it to a mixture of 
fructose and two molecules of glucose having [a]j> - 20*2°. Animal 
enzymes are without action, but those of molluscs and crustaceae, parti- 
cularly of the snail, act firstly to eliminate fructose and then hydrolyse 
the gentiobiose (Bierry). 

The constitutional formula is thus written : — 

C.H„0,-0— C.HJ0O4— O— C,Hn05 
Fructose Glucose Glucose 



Sucrose. Gentiobiose. 

Melicitose. 

Melicitose (Melezitose), m.p. 148*^-1 50°, \a\^ + 88*5**, crystallises in 
rhombic prisms ; it is obtained from Brian^on manna, the exudation 
from the young twigs of the larch. . It does not reduce Fehling's 
solution, exhibit mutarotation, or form a phenyl osazone. Dilute acids, 
e.g. 20 per cent, acetic acid, hydrolyse it to turanose and glucose, the 
rotation falling to + 63°. Living yeast and enzymes are without 
action. Stronger acids give rise to fructose (one molecule) and glucose 
(two molecules). It forms a hendeca-acetate, m.p. 117°, [aj^ + no**. 

Hudson has obtained it in quantity from the manna exuded by 
the Douglas fir tree, which contains as much as 75 per cent of the 
trisaccharide. He also found the sugar in comb honey which the bees 
had collected from pine trees. It is also present to the extent of 
30 per cent, in Turkestan manna. 

The constitution may be represented provisionally by the alterna- 
tive formulae : — 

1. glucose + fructose + glucose. 

2. glucose + glucose + fructose. 

These would assign to turanose the structure alternatively of a glucoside 
or fructoside. 



THE DISACCHARIDES 113 

TETRASACCHARIDES, Q^H^aO^. 

Stachyose. 

Stachyose (Mannotetrose, Lupeose) is found in the tubers of 
Stachys tubiferuy in ash manna, in the twigs of white jasmine and in 
the subterranean parts of Lantium album. 

It is probably identical with lupeose obtained by Schulze from 
Lupinus luteus and Angustifolius. It forms lustrous colourless plates, 
m.p. 1 67**- 1 70", [a]D + 148°, and tastes quite sweet 

Fehlinifs solution and alkali are without action on it. Acetic 
acid and the invertase of yeast hydrolyse it into mannotriose and 
fructose. Sulphuric acid causes complete hydrolysis to hexoses. It 
is also hydrolysed by the intestinal juice of Helix pomatia which first 
eliminates fructose, then galactose, and finally resolves the gluco- 
galactoside remaining as described under mannotriose. Animal 
intestinal enzymes, though they hydrolyse sucrose, are without action 
on stachyose, the enzymes of molluscs and crustaceae are also without 
action. Vintilesco claims to have hydrolysed stachyose completely 
by the successive action of invertase and almond emulsin. On oxida- 
tion with nitric acid, mucic acid is formed. 

The formula may be expressed : — 

C,H,iOb— 0— C,H,oO^— O— C,HioO,— O— C,HiiOa 
Pnxctoee Glucose Galactose Galactose 

Mannotriose. 

It forms an insoluble compound with strontium hydroxide and is 
so easily separated Tanret has thus isolated it from haricot-beans 
and the seeds of a number of other l^^uminoseae. 

Crystalline polyamyloses have been obtained from potato starch 
paste by the action of Bacillus macerans, Tetra-amylose, (S^^^ifi^^y 
or o-dextrin crystallises in colourless hexagonal plates, [a] + 128^ 
hexa-amylose or )8-dextrin forms rhombic crystals, [a] -h 136°. On 
acetylation, hydrolysis of the dextrins takes place and from the acetyl 
derivatives formed diamylose and triamylose were obtained. These 
crystallise in needles and do not reduce Fehling's solution. Rice 
starch gives similar definite polyamyloses on degradation. 



8 



CHAPTER V. 

THE RELATION BETWEEN CONFIGURATION i AND BIOCHEMICAL 

PROPERTIES. 

Perhaps the most important, and at the same time the most interesting, 
chapter in the chemistry of the sugars is that dealing with the altera- 
tion in properties brought about by small changes in the stereo-chemical 
configuration of the carbohydrate molecule. Although the molecular 
weight and the gross structure of the molecule remain the same, the 
very slightest modification in the space arrangement of the groups 
attached to the chain of carbon atoms is sufficient to affect the bio- 
chemical behaviour in the most profound manner. How exactly 
structure is to be correlated with biological behaviour, and how little 
variation in structure is permissible, will be seen from the following 
examples. 

It has long been known that the optical antipodes of a substance 
containing an asymmetric carbon atom behave very differently towards 
biological agents, such as yeasts, moulds, enzymes, or bacteria. The 
celebrated researches of Pasteur showed, for example, that the green 
mould, Pentdltium glaucum^ when allowed to grow in solutions of 
racemic acid, assimilated only ^-tartaric acid, leaving the /-tartaric acid 
untouched. It was supposed at the time that the mould was unable 
to attack the /-tartaric acid; later investigations suggest, however, 
that the mould ultimately destroys both antipodes, but attacks one at 
a very much greater rate than the other, and probably in a different 
manner. 

From a given racemic substance it is possible to obtain sometimes 
the one and sometimes the other antipode by utilising appropriate 
oi^nisms. For example, an excess of i/-mandelic acid is obtained 
from ^-mandelic acid on treatment with PeniciUium glaucam^ whereas 
when Saccharomyces ellipsoideus is used an excess of /-mandelic acid is 
obtained. 

> By the term configuration is understood the positions of the hydroxy! groups relative 
to the skeleton chain of carbon atoms. Change involves transference from the right to left 
side of the chain as figured on the plane of the paper or vtc* vsrsd from left to right 

"4 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 115 

Fermentatioii. 

Yeasts only ferment one, the dextro, isomeride of glucose, convert- 
ing it into carbon dioxide and alcohol, and accordingly when yeasts are 
allowed to act on racemic glucose the lae vo glucose remains unattacked. 
The same applies to the other fermentable hexoses ; in all cases only 
the dextro isomeride is attacked. 

The investigation of the behaviour of all the known hexoses, 
either found in nature or prepared in the laboratory, towards yeasts 
has shown that only four are fermented, viz. the ^-forms of glucose, 
mannose, galactose, and fructose, all of which are natural products. 

When the behaviour of different species of yeasts towards these 
natural hexoses is studied, it is found without a single exception that 
any species of yeast which ferments any one of the three hexoses — 
glucose, mannose, and fructose — likewise ferments all three of them, 
and with approximately the same readiness. The study of the kinetics 
of the three fermentation reactions confirms their similarity, and they 
have the same temperature coefficient (Slator). Everything, in fact, 
points to the mechanism involved in the fermentation of glucose, 
mannose, or fructose being the same in each instance. 

It has already been pointed out that the three hexoses in question 
are closely related in structure, so closely indeed as to be converted 
under the influence of alkalis into one another. An enolic or oxide 
form common to all three hexoses has been assumed to act as an inter- 
mediate substance in the transformation. The relationship will become 
clear when the formulae of these carbohydrates are consulted : — 



CHO 


CHO 


HCOH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


CH,OH 


CH,OH 


Glucose. 


Mamioee. 



CH.OH 


CH, . OH 


COH 
HOCH 
HCOH 
HCOH 
CH,OH 
Common enolic form. 


CO 
HOCH 
HCOH 
HCOH 

CH^OH 
Fructose. 



It is clearer here to use the older open-chain formulae, but the reader 
is advised to study these formulae in the solid model in order to 
understand fully the stereoisomerism of these compounds. Represen- 
tations on a plane surface easily lead to confusion. 

On the basis of the closed-ring formula for glucose, enolisation 
involves in the first place rupture of the pentaphane ring and forma- 
tion of the aldehydrol; secondly, water is eliminated between two 
contiguous carbon atoms to give the enol. Comparing the following 
scheme with that on p. 8, for the conversion of the aldehydrol into 

glucose, the difference is at once apparent : — 

8» 



ii6 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 




+ H,0 



HO/. CH 

/ \H CH(OH) 

H/COH O ^ 

- HjO c . OH 



.iK 



HO . CH HO 

\ \ 

HC .OH HC . OH 



HC.OH HC. 



OH 



OH CHj . OH CH, . OH 

Glucose. Aldehydrol, Enol. 

According to the alternative formula the aldehyde forms aldehydrol 
and this enoL The change is a reversible one. 

The process of fermentation of a sugar is regarded as a series of 
consecutive changes each involving simplification of the sugar mole- 
cule till it breaks down into carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol, com- 
pounds containing only one and two carbon atoms. Measurements 
of the rate of fermentation can be made by determining the rate of 
formation of either of these products — for example, the amount of 
CO2 formed after various intervals of time — but such measurements 
only apply to the slowest of these reactions. Similarly the quantita- 
tive effect produced by an increase of temperature in quickening the 
rate of fermentation in reality applies to the slowest reaction of the 
series. 

It has been suggested that the first process in fermentation is the 
conversion of the sugar into the enolic form by means of an enzyme 
contained in the yeast. The three fermentable hexoses yield the same 
enolic form, but possibly it is formed at different rates according to 
the sugar ; and whether one and the same agency is operative in each 
case it is impossible to say. The subsequent simplification of the 
molecule is the same for each of the three hexoses, an hypothesis which 
is quite in agreement with the experimental observations. This sim- 
plification is also due to an enzyme or to several enzymes acting in 
turn. The breakdown of the molecule will thus commence at the 
double linkage between the two terminal carbon atoms. 

This view is quite in harmony with the discovery by Harden and 
Young that the first stage in the fermentation of glucose by zymase 
is the formation of hexose phosphate C^Hi^O^CH^POJ,. Glucose^ 
mannose, and fructose give rise to the same hexose phosphate : when 
this is hydrolysed fructose is obtained. In other words, the hexose 
phosphate may be regarded as a compound of the enolic form of the 
three hexoses (cp. Dr. Harden's Monograph, p. 46). 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 117 

Further support of this view of the fermentation process is afforded 
by the fact that substances so closely related to glucose as the methyl 
glucosideSy glucosone, gluconic acid, and ethyl gluconate are, without 
exception, unfermentable : in all these only the groups attached to 
the terminal carbon atom differ from those of glucose. Enolisation in 
them, however, is impossible, and no action takes place since the for- 
mation of hexose phosphate is prevented. 

The behaviour of galactose is altogether diflferent. It is fermented 
with much greater difficulty than glucose. Very many yeasts are 
quite without action on galactose. The temperature coefficient of the 
fermentation of galactose is different from the value found in the case 
of glucose. These facts suggest that galactose is fermented by a 
different mechanism, that a different enzyme is concerned perhaps in 
causing enolisation, which is less widely distributed in yeasts. None 
the less the two phenomena must be very closely allied. No yeast is 
known capable of fermenting galactose but not fermenting glucose. 

The change in configuration in passing from glucose to galactose, 
though not sufficient to prevent fermentation altogether, causes the 
compound to be far more resistant to attack. It is not surprising, 
therefore, that any further change in configuration is sufficient to make 
the new hexose no longer fermentable. 

This is illustrated by the behaviour of galactose and its isomerides, 
talose and tagatose, which have an enolic form common to all three 
hexoses : — 



CHO 


CHO 


CHgOH 


CHOH 


HCOH 


HOCH 


CO 


COH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HOCH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


HCOH 


CHjOH 


CH,0H 


CHjOH 


CH,0H 


Galactose. 


Talose. 


Tagatose. 


Enolic fonii. 



Neither talose nor tagatose is fermented by any yeast whose 
action towards them has at present been investigated. Yet in talose 
the position of the two upper hydroxyl groups is the same as that in 
mannose, and the lower three hydroxyls occupy the same positions as 
they do in galactose. Obviously, for it to be fermentable, the con- 
figuration of the hexose has to be correct as a whole, the fact that 
single hydroxyl groups occupy the same, positions as they do in fer- 
mentable hexoses being of no moment. 

Presumably yeasts contain no enzymes compatible with talose or 
tagatose and able to convert them into the enolic form. 

The facts described can only be explained on the assumption that 
there is the very closest relationship between the configuration of a 



ii8 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

fermentable hexose and the enzymes which cause fermentation. This 
hypothesis receives confirmation which is little short of absolute when 
the behaviour of the sugars other than the hexoses is considered No 
pentose, either natural or synthetical, is fermentable by yeast None 
of the synthetic tetrose, heptose, or octose carbohydrate are fermentable. 

The only fermentable sugars, other than the four hexoses, are a 
nanose prepared by the cyanohydrin method from mannose and a 
ketotriose, dioxy acetone. The fermentability of ** glycerose" — a mix- 
ture of glyceric aldehyde and dioxyacetone — was long a matter of 
controversy; Bertrand, however, showed tht pure dioxyacetone is 
fermented by very active yeasts and this has been repeatedly 
confirmed. 

A further illustration of the relation of configuration to fermenta- 
bility is afforded by the behaviour of that monomethylglucose in which 
the methoxyl group is attached to the carbon at the extreme end of 
the chain and therefore most remote from the part of the sugar mole- 
cule which is generally believed to have the most effect in controlling 
enzyme action — 

Mcb . CH, . CH(OH) . CH . [CH , OH], . CH . OH 

Living top yeast and a maceration extract of dried bottom yeast were 
quite without action. The compound also resisted seven species of 
bacteria all of which acted on glucose. 

The identification of intermediate products in the fermentation of 
glucose has long been a matter of controversy. 

Buchner and his co-workers have suggested in turn lactic acid 
CH, . CH(OH) . CO,H and dihydroxy acetone CH,OH . CO . CH,OH, 
but in both cases Slator has shown that these are fermented very much 
more slowly than glucose, an observation which renders Buchner's 
hypothesis untenable, and the same will probably apply to the latest 
suggestion that formic acid is an intermediate product Bearing in 
mind Fischer's synthesis of acrose from dihydroxyacetone it appears 
probable that dihydroxyacetone is fermented by yeast only after it has 
been converted into hexose, and the same applies to glyceraldehyde. 
This hypothesis is greatly strengthened by Lebedeff's proof that the 
organic phosphate produced during the fermentation of dihydroxy- 
acetone is identical with the hexose phosphate obtained by Harden 
and Young from the fermentable hexoses. It is probable, therefore, 
that dihydroxyacetone is only fermented after conversion into hexose. 

Evidence is, however, accumulating that pyruvic acid — 

CH, . CO . C0,H 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 119 

is a normal intermediary. When yeast is grown in sugar solutions in 
presence of sodium sulphite considerable quantities of acetaldehyde 
are formed. This fact is the basis of the suggestion by Neuberg that 
the sugar breaks down into two molecules of pyruvic acid which are 
rapidly converted into aldehyde by the yeast carboxylase. The alde- 
hyde in turn acts as an acceptor of hydrogen and promotes the forma- 
tion of pyruvic acid from sugar under the influence of the yeast 
reductase, half the aldehyde being at once converted into alcohol. 
This subject is, however, more appropriately discussed in the mono- 
graph on fermentation. 

It is obvious how intimately the property of undergoing fermen- 
tation is connected with the configuration of the sugar molecule. 
Lengthening or shortening the chain of carbons is suflicient to place 
the sugar molecule out of harmony with the yeast enzymes, and thus 
prevent its destruction by fermentation. The fact that triose, hexose, 
and nonose sugars are fermentable has led to the suggestion that the 
fermentable carbohydrates must contain a multiple of three carbon 
atoms : the fermentability of the nonose requires confirmation. 

Although hexosephosphate is formed under the influence of yeast 
juice living yeast cells do not ferment it, even when added coferment 
and artificial activators are supplied. Dried yeast or yeast juice 
esterifies phosphate almost quantitatively in presence of sugar whereas 
living yeast, even when toluene has been added, may esterify only 
some 8 per cent. ; the difference is probably a question of cell per- 
meability. It is further of interest that some yeasts, when weakened 
by nitrogen starvation, are able to esterify phosphates in presence of 
fructose but not with glucose. This is an indication that the proto- 
plasm can grip the ketose structure more readily than the aldose 
structure and that the preparatory process in fermentation may be 
concerned in the conversion of aldose into ketose, or far more probably 
into a common enolic or oxide form, which is more easily formed from 
fructose than from glucose. 

In this connection it is common knowledge that fructose is usually 
more easily or better utilised in the animal body than glucose, as, for 
example, under diabetic conditions. 





I20 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Glucoside Hydrolysis. 

The formation of stereoisomeric a- and /3-methyl glucosides by the 
interaction of glucose and methyl alcohol in presence of hydrogen 
chloride has already been discussed and their constitutional formulae 
established. These isomeric glucosides, though so alike in structure, 
behave very differently towards enzymes. 

o-Methyl glucoside is hydrolysed by the maltose (a-glucase ^) of 
yeast, /8-methyl glucoside by emulsin (/3-glucase) which is widely dis- 
tributed in plants. Emulsin is quite without action on the o-glucoside ; 
maltase has no effect on the )3-glucoside. 

CHjO.C.H H.C.OCH, 

HC( 



JOH 

HOCH 

Hi 

HCOH 

CHjOH CH,OH 

a-Methyl glucoeide /3-Methvl glucoside 

hydrolysed by Maltase hydrolysed by Emulsin 
(a-glucase). O-glucase). 

Other alkyl derivatives of glucose behave in a similar manner. It 
may be stated as a general rule that /3-glucosides are hydrolysed by 
emulsin alone, o-glucosides are only attacked by maltase. Accordingly, 
compounds hydrolysed by emulsin are considered to be y9-glucosides. 
The corresponding derivatives of /-glucose are not affected in the 
slightest by either enzyme, a- and )9-methyl-/-glucosides represent the 
mirror images of the methyW-^lucosides and their behaviour is parallel 
to that of /-glucose towards living yeast. 

The glucosidic derivatives of mannose, viz. methyl-^ and /-manno- 
sides are also quite stable in presence of maltase or emulsin. Hence 
the change in position of a single hydroxy! (here that attached to the 
o-carbon atom) is sufficient to render the mannoside out of harmony 

^ Nonunclature of Enzymes, — The name of an enz3rme is usually derived from that of 
the sugar which it hydrolyses by substituting the suffix -oi^ for -ou* Thus maltase 
hydrolyses maltose, lactase hydrolyses lactose. The enzyme which attacks glucosides 
may be termed glucose and is an a-glucase or /S-glucase accordingly as it hydrolyses the 
a- or ^-gluco6ide. 

Although it was at one time generally stated that maltase does not usually occur in 
plants W. A. Davis gives strong reasons for supposing that it is always present where 
starch degradation occurs. It is endocellular in origin and readily destroyed by tempera- 
tures above 50° : it has low solubility and low powers of diffusion. Daish has identified 
maltase in the crushed pulp of a number of leaves, all of which convert gelatinised starch 
into glucose. 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 121 

with these enzymes ; but, as has just been seen, the change in con- 
figuration is not sufficient to make mannose unfermentable by yeast 

o-Methyl-^-galactoside is likewise not hydrolysed by maltase or 
emulsin. 

)8-Methyl-^-galactoside is hydrolysed by the crude emulsin prepara- 
tion obtained from almonds, but subsequent investigation has shown 
that this preparation contains a mixture of enzymes and that the 
hydrolysis of the )3-galactoside is due to a lactase Q8-galactase) and 
not to the same enzyme which attacks )8-methyl glucoside. This 
behaviour shows that the alteration in the position of the hydroxyl 
attached to the 7-carbon atom in the glucoside molecule renders the 
galactosides out of harmony with maltase and emulsin. Any other 
alteration involving departure from the configuration of the glucose 
molecule or in the length of the chain of carbon atoms has the same 
effect on the behaviour towards enzymes. 

None of the known glucosides ^ of the pentoses, methyl pentoses, 
heptoses, or other hexoses are hydrolysed by maltase or emulsin. 

This behaviour can only mean that the hydrolysing power of these 
two enzymes bears the very closest relationship to the configuration of 
the dextro-glucose molecule. 

Fischer has drawn particular attention to the behaviour of the a- 
and )8-methyl-^xylosides. These practically correspond to the corre- 
sponding glucosides with one asymmetric carbon atom removed : — 




H-C— OCH 



:h,oh 




H—C— OCH, 




CH,OH 



/3-Methyl-<f-glttcoside. /9-Metbyl-<f-i8Qrhamnoside. /S-Methyl-i-xyloside. 

Both xylosides are unaffected by either maltase or emulsin. In 
this instance, although the major part of the molecule is identically the 
same in each glucoside, the shortening of the chain is sufficient to 
destroy the close harmony with the enzyme. 

Fischer's latest investigations have shown that /8-methyl-^isorham- 
noside (see p. 121) is also hydrolysed by emulsin. This glucoside 
differs only from /3-methyl glucoside in that the terminal CH|OH 
group is reduced to CH,. Apparently such a difference is not enough 

^ The term glucoside is used generally for the corresponding derivatives of all the 
sugars and not restricted to the derivatives of glucose. 



122 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



to put the enzyme out of action although, as just stated, the elimina- 
tion of this carbon atom prevents the enzyme from acting on the 
methoxyl group at the other end of the chain. 

Fischer's own attitude towards this question is expressed in the 
following extract from his summary in 1 898 : — 

" Die Indifferenz der Xyloside g^en Emulsin und Hefenenzyme 
zeigt mithin, welch feine Unterschiede fiir den Angriff dieser Stoffe 
massgebend sind, oder mit anderen Worten, wie grob die Vorstellungen 
noch sind, welche wir trotz aller Fortschrite der Struktur- und Stereo- 
chemie von dem Aufbau des chemischen Molekuls haben. Das weitere 
Studium der enzymatischen Prozesse scheint mir deshalb berufen zu 
sein, auch die Anschauungen uber den molekularen Bau komplizierter 
KohlenstoiTverbindungen zu vertiefen." 

The glucosides investigated by Fischer are summarised in Table 

XVI. in which + indicates hydrolysis, o denotes no action. 

TABLE XVI. 



Gluconde. 


MalUse 
(••GlttCMe). 


EmoUn 
O-Glacmae). 


a-Methyl-<f-GIuco6ide 


+ 





i3- MethyM-Glucoside 









+ 


a-Methyl-/-Gluco8ide 












i3-MethyU/.Glucoside 












a-Ethyl.^-Gluco8ide 






+ 





/3-Ethyl-^-Gluco8ide 









+ 


^.Phenol-J-Glucoeide 









+ 


a-Methyl-if-Galactoside . 












i9-Methyl-<f-Galacto8ide . 












MethyI-<f-Manno8ide . 












Methyl-/-Manno8ide . 












a-Methyl-^-Xyloside 












iS- Methy W-Xy loside 












Methyl-^Arabinoside 












Methyl Rhamnoside 












Methyl Glucoheptosid 


e 










j9-Methyl-<i-i80-Rhamno8ide . 




+ 



The investigation of the rate of hydrolysis of maltose — an i^-gluco- 
side — by maltase has shown that change takes place more slowly in the 
presence of glucose, indicating that this sugar has a definite retarding 
influence on the enzyme. Other sugars, e.g. mannose, fructose, galac- 
tose, arabinose, xylose are quite without influence on the rate of 
change, proving that the action of glucose is due not to any concentrat- 
ing effect but to the specific influence exerted by its configuration. 
The fact that /8-methyl glucoslde also acts to retard the hydrolysis of 
the a-glucoside (maltose) affords the strongest confirmatory evidence 
of this specific hindrance. Part of the enzyme must combine with 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 123 

the glucose and so be withdrawn from action. Maltase can apparently 
combine with /S-methyl glucoside though quite unable to hydro- 
lyse it 

In an analc^ous manner the hydrolysis of /8-methyl glucoside by 
emulsin is controlled only by glucose and a-methyl glucoside, and by 
no other carbohydrate. 

These illustrations, selected from a number of carefully worked- out 
cases, suffice to show the very intimate relation which exists between 
enzyme and the substance upon which it acts. This can only be ex- 
plained by supposing some form of combination between the two. 
The enzyme, moreover, must fit the glucoside at every point along 
the chain of carbon atoms, thus : — 



IK 



"*-<4- 



RO ^ 

N ^ 



The combination may perhaps be compared to the way in which 
the successive fingers of a glove fit on to a right hand : if the position 
of any finger be altered it is impossible to fit the glove ; further, the glove 
will not fit on the left hand Fischer's original simile compared the 
relationship of enzyme to hydrol3^e to that existing between a key and 
the lock for which it is made, the shape of the key enabling it only 
to unfasten the particular lock to the arrangement of whose wards it 
corresponds. 

The enzymes themselves, if this hypothesis be accepted, must be 
closely related in configuration to the substances which they hydrolyse. 
From this point of view the presence of a carbohydrate in the molecule 
of invertase and some other enzymes is at least significant (see Mono* 
graph by Bayliss, p. 19). Salkowski states, however, that the carbohy- 
drate present in the yeast gum is precipitated with the enzyme, but 
that it is not a component of the purified enzyme. 

It is perhaps necessary to emphasise that the actual hydrolysis of 
the carbohydrate is due to the action of the water molecules. The 
enzymes may be conceived perhaps as acting as a vice in presenting 
in the appropriate manner the water molecule to the centre to be 
hydrolysed. 

Attachment of enzyme to hydrolyte takes place no doubt through 
the oxygen atoms of the hydroxyl groups. In these the oxygen atom 



124 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

possesses residual affinity, that is, is not fully saturated, and it is there- 
fore able to combine with appropriate elements of the molecule of the 
enzyme. 

The fact that tetramethyl-)8-methyl glucoside like /3-methyl 
glucoside itself is hydrolysed by emulsin is in full agreement with this 



view 




H.C.OMe 



MeOCH 

Hi. 

HCOMe 

CH,.OMe 
Tetramethyl-^-methyl glucoside. 




;H, . OH 
/3-Methyl glucoside. 



Although in this compound the hydrogen in the hydroxy 1 groups of 
glucose has been replaced by methyl, this change is not sufficient either 
to destroy the residual affinity of the oxygen atoms or to mask them 
from the influence of the enzyme. 

Most of the natural and the synthetic /9-glucosides are hydrolysed 
by emulsin, the exceptions being usually cases where the non-sugar 
residue is sufficiently toxic to put the enzyme out of action. An 
interesting exception is aflbrded by the mandelamide glucosides, of 
which one only — the laevo form — is hydrolysed, whereas both rf- and 
/-mandelonitrile glucosides are hydrolysed. 



Conversion of Galactose into Glucose. 

When the closed-ring formulae of the two hexoses, glucose and 
galactose, are considered side by side, it will be obvious that the difler- 
ence between them is confined to the relative positions of the groups 
attached to the 4th or 7-carbon atom, i.e. the oxygen atom of the 
pentaphane ring is attached to different sides of the molecule : — 



. a- Carbon 
. iB-Carbon 
. '^Carbon 
. 8-Carbon 





CH,OH 
Gloooee. 



CH,OH 



Galactose. 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 125 

The direct conversion of one sugar into the other involves the rupture 
of the ring at this point and its closure again in the opposite sense. 
The whole behaviour of glucose shows, however, that the pentaphane 
ring ruptures preferentially at the attachment of the oxygen to the 
first carbon atom. The conversion of glucose into galactose has been 
only indirectly effected by chemical means, but there is little doubt 
that it takes place in the organism, as it is only on this supposition 
that the formation of the galactoside, milk sugar, in large quantities in 
mammals during lactation can be accounted for. 

Under normal conditions the blood transports glucose to the 
mammary glands, where, in the regular course of lactation, it i$ con- 
verted into the disaccharide, milk sugar, and excreted in the milk. 
Removal of the mammary gland results in an accumulation of glucose 
in the blood, from which it passes to the urine. Galactose is not 
found in the urine. Injection of glucose causes lactosuria when the 
mammary glands are in full activity, but produces glucosuria when the 
glands are less active. Nothing is known as to the mechanism by 
which the mammary glands are able to transform glucose into lactose,, 
but it is undoubtedly effected by means of enzymes. 

The enzyme lactase which hydrolyses /3-methyl galactoside, other 
/3-alkyl galactosides and milk sugar, is a specific enzyme for )9-galacto- 
sides, just as emulsin has been shown to be the specific enzyme for 
)S-glucosides. Lactase has its action controlled only by galactose and 
by no other sugar, and it is incapable of hydrolysing glucosides. The 
only enzyme at present known which can hydrolyse a-methyl galacto- 
side is the digestive juice of the Helix, which, according to Bierry, attacks 
both a- and )3-galactosides ; on the other hand, no compound of 
a-galactose is known in nature. Bierry states that the lactase ob- 
tained from the intestine of a dog hydrolyses lactose and not )8-methyl 
galactoside 

Apparently two lactases exist, one form present in kephir being^ 
controlled by galactose, the other present in almond emulsin by glucose. 
The work of Miss Stephenson indicates that the lactase of the intestinal 
mucous membrane of animals is a glucolactase. 



126 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Oxidation. 

The influence of configuration has been also studied in the case 
of the behaviour of carbohydrates towards oxidising bacteria. The 
bactef;uiin xylinum (Adrian Brown), or sorbose bacterium, as it has 
beef^ tercpfed by Bertrand, oxidises aldoses to the corresponding mono- 
basic afcids, and converts the alcohols into ketones, eg. gluconic acid 
is formed from glucose, galactonic acid from galactose ; xylose and 
arabinose yield xylonic and arabonic acids. In all these cases the 

- CHO group is oxidised to - CO^H by the agency of the bacterium. 

In the case of alcohols the sorbose bacteria oxidise - CH(OH) - 
to - CO - . Thus mannitol forms fructose ; sorbitol yields sorbose ; 
eiythritol, arabitol and perseitol are oxidised to the corresponding 
ketones, and glycerol gives dihydroxyacetone. The bacterium has 
no action, however, on glycol, dulcitol, or xylitol. 

An examination of the formula of these alcohols shows that the 

- CH(OH) - group oxidised to - CO - is next to a - CH,(OH) 
group ; further, for action to take place, the hydroxyl group must not 
be adjacent to a hydn^en atom on the same side of the configuration 
formula ; in other words, the compound must contain the grouping — 

H H 

CH.(OH) . C . C— 
OH OH 

Consideration of the configuration formulae of mannitol and dulcitol 
will help to make this clear : — 

OH OH H H 
CH,(0H) . C . C . C . C . CH,(OH) 
H H OHOH 

Mannitol — converted into Fructose. 

H OHOH H 

CHJOH) . C . C . C . C . CHJOH) 

OH H H OH 

Dulcitol — not attacked. 

Gluconic acid contains the sensitive grouping. Accordingly, it is 
further oxidised by the bacterium to a keto-gluconic acid : — 

OH H OH OH OH H OH 

CO,H . C . C . C . C . CHJOH) ^ CO,H . C . C . C . CO . CH^OH) 
H OH H H H OH H 

Gluconic acid. Keto-gluconic acid. 

In contrast with the sucroclastic enzymes, which are apparently in 
harmony with the sugar molecule as a whole, these oxidising bacteria 
seem adapted to a section only of the molecule. Their action is none 
the less absolutely dependent on the presence of the requisite configura- 
tion in the molecule. 

Many bacteria act upon mannitol which are without action on 



CONFIGURATION AND BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES 127 

daldtol. Harden found this to be true for Bacilltis colt communis, which 
is of interest also since it produces twice as much alcohol from mannitol 
as from glucose; This difference is ascribed to the presence of the 
group CH^COH) . CH(OH) — ^which is contained once only in glucose 
but twice in mannitol. 

Only those bacteria which produce fermentation of glucose act on 
pyruvic acid, CH, . CO . COjH. 

According to Grey the fermentation of various carbohydrates and 
allied substances by bacteria is effected by a single set of enzymes th^ 
action of which is common to all such cases of fermentation. The 
first step in the alteration of a particular molecular structure may 
require a special enzyme to produce the common intermediate sub- 
stance but the subsequent changes are always similar, being due to 
the action of the standard series of bacterial enzymes. 

In animal tissues glucose is converted by oxidation into lactic 
acid with the intermediate formation of glyoxal. Glucosone, which 
may be regarded as a substituted glyoxal, remains unchanged, how- 
ever, in presence of a septic kidney tissue, proving that the enzyme 
can only effect the unchanged hexose (Levene). 

A further example of the influence of configuration on biochemical 
properties is afforded by the formation of the urease ferment by 
bacteria. Jacoby has shown that whilst d^glucose, ^/-galactose and 
ddJid /-arabinose contribute to the formation of the ferment, ^mannose 
and rhamnose are inactive. In the active sugars the configuration — 

OH H 
- C - C - CHO or its optical antipode 
H OH 

exists, whereas in the inactive sugars both hydroxyl groups are on the 
same side of the chain of carbon atoms. 

By floating detached leaves, which have been deprived of their 
starch by keeping them in the dark, on nutrient solution it is possible 
to determine which substances can occasion the formation of starch. 
The application of this method to the carbohydrate alcohols affords an 
excellent illustration of the influence of configuration on the biological 
properties. Plants which normally contain alcohols can utilise these 
and also glycerol to form starch ; thus the Oleacea utilise mannitol, 
Lingustrum and Chierantkus make use of dulcitol. Treboux has shown 
that the Rosacea ^x^ able to produce starch from sorbitol, the production 
being more vigorous than from carbohydrates or from glycerol, but they 
are quite unable to utilise mannitol or dulcitol. The leaves of Adonis 
vernaliszr^ able to convert adonitol into starch but can make use of no 
other carbohydrate alcohols. 



128 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

The four polysaccharides, sucrose, gentianose,raffinose,and stachyose, 
may all be regarded as fructose derivatives of increasing complexity. 
The invertase of beer yeast eliminates fructose from all of them, the 
juice ol Helix pomatia or oiAstacus behaving similarly, though there is a 
difference in the degree of hydrolysis, sucrose being far the most readily 
attacked. The intestinal juice of the dog and that of other invertebrates 
acts only on sucrose (Bierry). 

The digestive juice of snails is remarkable in its activity towards 
substituted lactose derivatives. Thus it hydrolyses lactose-osazone^ 
aminoguanidine, semi-carbazone, and carbamide to galactose and a de- 
rivative of glucose. In a similar manner it splits off galactose from 
derivatives of mannotriose (Bierry). 



CHAPTER VI. 

HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS. 

Hydrolysis of Disaccharides. 

DiSACCHARlDES are hydro lysed to monosaccharides by mineral and 
organic acids in accordance with the equation — 

Ci,H«o„ + H,0 = 2C.H„0, 

Any acid will act on each sugar, though the intensity of the action 
differs more or less according to the acid or the disaccharide. 

The disaccharides are also hydrolysed by enzymes. The action 
of enzymes is essentially selective : each particular sugar is hydrolysed 
only by its appropriate enzyme and by no other. There is thus a 
sharp distinction between the two classes of hydrolysing agents. 

Great historical interest attaches to the phenomenon of the hydro- 
lysis of cane sugar by acids as it was one of the first chemical changes 
of which the course was followed by physical methods.^ The change 
in sign of the optical rotatory power on inversion was first announced 
byBiot in 1836. A few years later Wilhelmy (1850) showed that the 
amount of sugar changed in any given moment is a constant percent- 
age of the amount of unchanged sugar present. This is known as 
Wilhelmy*s law, and put into mathematical form it is expressed by the 
equation : — 

dx C 

—— a K(a - x) I a = initial amount of sugar. 

where-! x =s amount already inverted. 

or K = -A^%>* I i = time which has elapsed since the reaction started. 

This law has been carefully verified experimentally : the above 
expression is the simplest type of mass action equation. The velocity 
constant K represents the rate at which the sugar is inverted. 

Cane sugar is hydrolysed at very different rates by different acids. 
If the acids are classified in order according to their power of hydro- 
lysing sucrose they will be found to be also arranged according to 

^ It is outside the limits of this monograph to do more than indicate the salient features 
of hydrolysis. A most valuable and complete summary of the literature bearing on the 
subject, with a bibliography complete up to 1906, is contained in a report presented by R. J. 
Caldwell to the British Association at York, 1906. 

129 9 



I30 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



their electrical conductivity and power of hydrolysing methyl acetate. 
This fact was first recognised by Ostwald in 1884. Other disac- 
charides and the glucosides are also hydrolysed by acids in accordance 
with Wilhelmy's law, but hydrolysis takes place far more slowly than 
in the case of cane sugar. Indeed, whereas cane sugar is rapidly 
hydrolysed by normal sulphuric acid at 20°, milk sugar requires pro- 
longed heating at 80** to effect the same proportion of change. Arm- 
strong and Caldwell give the relative ease with which hydrolysis 
takes place as milk sugar i, maltose 1*27, cane sugar 1240. Other 
figures relating to the glucosides are given in Table XVII. : — 

TABLE xvn. 



CoinpouDd. 


Relative Rate of 
Hydrolysis. 


a-Methyl glucoside 
i8-Methyl glucoside 
a-Methyl galactoside , 
/9-Methyl galactoside . 

Salicin 

Maltose . 

Milk sugar 




XOO 

179 

542 
884 

60X 

740 

582 



The relative strength of acids as measured by their inverting power 
is dependent on the nature of the sugar by means of which the com- 
parison is made, and even with the same sugar the ratio is different at 
different temperatures. The following table, compiled by Caldwell, 
illustrates this point It would, however, lead too far to discuss the 
significance of these observations here : — 

TABLE XVIIL 



Sugar Hydrolysed. 


Temp. 

1 


Relative Activities of the Adds. 


HCl. 


HaS04. 


HsCs04. 


Camphor- 

Solphonie 

(Reychler). 


Sucrose .... 
Salicin .... 
Maltose .... 
Lactose .... 
(Conductivity) . 


25" 

74' 
60° 

25« 


XOO 

xoo 
xoo 
xoo 
xoo 


537 

49-9 
40-5 

477 
6x*9 


x8*2 
23-3 
X4-X 

197 


89-8 
68-6 



The foregoing data (Table XVII.), though at present somewhat 
scanty, afford important material for the discussion of the nature of the 
hydrolytic process. Considering the hydrolysis of the glucosides two 
views are possible, either (i) tbs^t the compound behaves much as the 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 131 

simple ether CH, . O . CH, would, and that the hydrolyst becomes as- 
sociated with the oxygen atom to which the CH, group is attached ; or 
(2) that the attachment is to the oxygen atom in the ring. On the 
former view the two isomeric a- and /8-glucosides should be hydrolysed 
with equal readiness, as the methoxyl groups are equally weighted in 
the a and fi position. 

Actually in the case of both glucose and galactose the fi derivative 
is hydrolysed about 175 times as readily as the a derivative, and as 
there is every reason for thinking that the mechanism of change is the 
same in both cases, the difference in the rate of hydrolysis can only 
be due in main to the relative distances of the OCH3 groups from the 
centre of the change. 

There is little doubt that the active system, within which change 
takes place, is formed by the association of acid-water molecules with 
the oxygen atom in the pentaphane ring. Oxonium compounds are 
formed of the type already discussed at length on pp. 18, 23. In 
other words, this oxygen is the centre from which attack proceeds. 

Reference to a solid model will readily show that a distinct differ- 
ence exists in the relative distances of the - OCH, group, when in the 
a and /9 positions, from the oxygen atom in the ring : this is but im- 
perfectly rendered on a plane surface. 

\C . OCH, 




HO. CH / HO 




HC. 



OH 



;H, . OH CH, . OH 

orMethy] glucofiide. /I-Methyl glucoside. 

The a-methyl glucoside, since it is the most stable form, may be 
assumed to be that in which the methoxyl (OCH,) group is furthest 
removed from the pentaphane oxygen as shown above : conversely, 
the /9-glucoside will be that in which the methoxyl is nearest the 
oxygen centre. 

Boeseken assigns exactly the opposite constitutions to a- and 
y8-glucose, basing his theory on the decrease in the conductivity of 
a-glucose, in presence of boric acid, during mutarotation and the 
increase in conductivity in the case of the /8 form. 

As Irvine has shown, Boeseken, in making his deductions, ignores 

9* 



132 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

entirely the influence of the hydroxyl present as oxonium hydrate for 
which there is now ample evidence and they may be therefore regarded 
as invalid This question has been fully dealt with under the heading 
Mutarotation on page 1 5. The same criticism applies to the formulae 
for the glucosides suggested by Michaelis based on their acid dissocia- 
tion constants. 

Apparently the rate of hydrolysis of a glucoside can be markedly 
affected by the nature of the non-sugar residue. In the case of the 
a- and ^-phenol glucosides Fischer states that under like conditions 68 
per cent, of the a- and 32 per cent, of the /8-glucoside were hydrolysed : 
the corresponding figure for a-methyl glucoside being 4*5 percent. 
This is the reverse of what obtains with the methyl glucosides. With 
the menthyl glucosides however, the /8 form is somewhat more rapidly 
hydrolysed than the isomeride. 

The synthetic a- and /9-glucosides will afford valuable material for 
the complete investigation of these interesting differences. 

It must be assumed in the case of the galactosides, which are 
more readily hydrolysed than the glucosides, that the interchange in 
the position of the groups attached to the 7-carbon atom, which involves 
a shift in the position of the ring, brings the pentaphane oxygen 
nearer the methos-yl group (p. 13) and so facilitates action. It is im- 
possible to represent such a change on a plane surface, but it will be 
readily understood on reference to the model. 

The application of this line of argument to the disaccharides pro- 
mises most interesting results. 

As elsewhere pointed out (p. 97), two types of reducing disac- 
charides may be formulated according to whether the primary or 
secondary alcohol group of one sugar is joined to the glucoside half 
of the molecule. These types may be formulated in skeleton thus : — 

C— C CHjOH c— c 
/ \ Z I / \ .OH 

C— C— C HC O CH CH C<r 

- \o/ ^ ^^ \o/ ^« 



X-^ ^"^---Y 

Type A. — Secondary alcohol junction. 




Type B. — Primary alcohol junction. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 133 

In disaccharides of type A, attack will proceed from both penta- 
phane oxygen centres X and Y towards the centre marked Z, at which 
scission of the molecule occurs. Centre Y is further removed from 
exercising influence than centre X. 

In disaccharides of type B, centre Y is still further removed from 
centre Z, and its influence may be supposed to be correspondingly 
weakened Carbohydrates of this type will be least easily hydrolysed. 

Differences introduced by the second hexose occupying the a or 
fi positions will mainly affect the distance XZ in the formula, i.e. in 
practice they will increase or decrease the magnitude of the attack 
from the centre X, but they will also have an effect on the nearness of 
the centres Y and Z. As before mentioned, these reasonings are best 
followed with the aid of a solid model. 

It is possible on the basis of the foregoing argument to assign type 
formulae to many of the disaccharides ; for example, as lactose is more 
easily hydrolysed than melibiose it might be assigned to type A and 
melibiose to type B : other methods have proved this to be actually 
the case. It is best, howeve»"^ to defer such speculations until the rates 
of hydrolysis of all the disaccharides have been compared under com- 
parable conditions, and it is to be hoped, now that many of these 
sugars are more easily available, that this work will be undertaken. 

In cane sugar the ethylene-oxide structure of .he fructose residue 
brings centre Y into the closest possible contiguity with centre Z : — 

C— C CH,OH 

/ \ 2 1 

c.c.c. hc o c . c.c.c.c. 



X^ \Y 

Glucose residue. Fructose residue. 

Everything is in favour of hydrolysis, which, accordingly, may be 
expected to take place with great rapidity. 

In turanose, which is hydrolysed with great difficulty, the centre Y is 
removed much further away from centre Z, and it may be further as- 
sumed that the fructose residue does not in this case possess an ethy- 
lene-oxide structure. Conditions are thus opposed to rapid hydrolysis. 




X-^ ^^Y 

Glucose residue. Fructose residue. 



134 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

It IS recorded that isotrehalose is more easily hydrolysed than 
trehalose: this is in full agreement with the structural formulae as- 
signed to them. 

The laws of hydrolysis' by enzymes have been dealt with by 
Bayliss (Monograph on Enzyme Action), and the details of the selec- 
tive action towards the disaccharides will be found in Chapters IV. and 
V. of this monograph. 

Enzymes are far more active as hydrolysing agents than acids, 
a very minute quantity at the ordinary temperature being far more 
powerful than very strong acid at a high temperature. 

It is perhaps desirable here to lay emphasis on the difference 
noticeable in the behaviour of enzymes and acids respectively as 
hydroI)^ic agents. It is due mainly, if not wholly, (i) to the superior 
affinity of the enzymes for the carbohydrates ; (2) to the very different 
behaviour of the two classes of hydrolysts towards water — which is 
a consequence of the colloid nature of the one and the crystalloid 
nature of the other. In other words, whereas there is competition 
between the solvent water and the carbohydrate for the acid, water 
has very little attraction for the enzyme : in consequence, practically 
the whole of the enzyme present is taking part in the operation of 
hydrolysis. 

The Synthesis of Monosaccharides by Chemical Means. 

The synthetical preparation of natural dextro-glucose from its ele- 
ments may be justly claimed as one of the greatest achievements of 
the chemist, and it is enhanced in interest by the great biological im- 
portance of the carbohydrates. ' 

In the following section a brief outline is given of the operations 
performed in preparing glucose and fructose from their elements. 
Dealing first with the earlier work, the first attempt which was in any 
way successful was that made by Butlerow, who showed that when 
trioxymethylene is condensed by means of lime water a syrupy sub- 
stance is obtained which has the properties of a sugar. Subsequently 
Loew improved the technique of the method and named the product 
he obtained formose. Fischer and Tafel started with acrolein dibro- 
mide and effected condensation of this by means of baryta, the change 
being expressed by the equation : — 

2C,H40Br, + 2Ba(0H), = CJi^jD^ + aBaBtj 

They showed that the syrupy product obtained contained two sugars 
distingruished as a- and /8-acrose. Subsequently glycerose was made 
the starting-point for the synthesis ; crude glycerose is a mixture of 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS I35 

glyceric aldehyde, CH2(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO,and dihydroxyacetone, 
CHjCOH). CO. CH2(OH), and these two compounds can be formu- 
lated as undergoing the "aldol" condensation forming a ketone, 
CHaCOH). (CH.OH)3.CO.CH2(OH), which has the same compo- 
sition as fructose, a- and /9-acrose were obtained from this condensa- 
tion and characterised by means of the osazones they formed with 
phenylhydrazine. a-Acrosazone was found to possess a remarkable 
resemblance to glucosazone, differing only in being optically in- 
active. More recently Fenton has shown that glycollic aldehyde, 
CH2(OH) . CHO, may be used as the starting-point of the synthetical 
process ; three molecules of it condense to a-acrose. 

A product of synthesis by all these methods is a-acrose. Fischer 
converted this firstly into acrose phenyl osazone in order to isolate it 
from the mixture of substances and then into acrosone by treatment 
with hydrochloric acid as described in Chapter II. Acrosone, on re- 
duction, yielded firstly a sweet syrup having all the properties of fruc- 
tose, and secondly on further reduction an alcohol, a-acritol, very like 
mannitol but differing in being optically inactive. There was no doubt 
that a-acrose was inactive ^/-fructose. The further problem was to 
obtain an optically active sugar from this. The product was partially 
fermented with yeast and a dextro-rotatory sugar, /-fructose, was ob- 
tained, but this biological method did not lead to the isolation of the 
natural sugar. Indeed, to obtain this a number of operations were 
necessary. fliZ-Fructose was reduced to ^-mannitol and the latter 
oxidised to the corresponding acid, ^-mannonic acid. (This acid 
forms a characteristic hydrazide from which it can be easily regene- 
rated.) The racemic acid gave crystalline alkaloid salts and these were 
separated by fractional crystallisation ; in this manner their resolution 
into the optically active forms was effected just as was done by 
Pasteur in the case of racemic tartaric acid, d- and /-mannonic acids 
were thus obtained by the crystallisation of the strychnine or morphine 
salt of the synthetical racemic acid : by reduction of their lactones 
they were converted into rf- and /-mannose and the complete synthesis 
of these hexoses accomplished To pass to ^/-fructose it only remained 
to reduce the mannosone (identical with glucosone) formed from d- 
mannose phenyl osazone in the manner already described (compare 
Chap. II.). 

The synthetical mannonic acids above mentioned are converted 
into the corresponding gluconic acids when heated with pyridine or 
quinoline (see p. 55), and it was only necessary to reduce these adds 
to obtain the corresponding glucoses. The stages of these syntheses 
are summarised in the chart on page 1 36. 



136 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



Proceeding in this way Fischer effected the s}mthesis of the six 
hexoses derived from mannitol, and extended the methods to the 
synthesis of a number of isomeric hexoses which do not occur 
naturally. To-day, out of the sixteen possible isomeric aldohexoses, 
according to the Le Bel-van't Hoff theory, fourteen have been pre- 
pared synthetically. 

Theoretically a simpler method of passing from fructose (a-acrose) 
to glucose and mannose is afforded by warming with alkali, when the 
isomeric transformations observed by Lobry de Bruyn take place. 
These are of particular interest in the case of sorbose, which is con- 
verted into galactose and tagatose. Sorbose belong^ to the mannitol 
series, galactose to the dulcitol series, so that this transformation 
connects the hexoses derived from the two alcohols and indirectly 
effects the complete synthesis of all the sugars derived from dulcitoL 

Before this transformation was discovered Fischer found it neces- 
sary to degrade gulonic acid to the pentose sugar xylose, transform 
this into the isomeric lyxose and combine lyxose with hydrogen 

Acroleindibromide Formaldehyde Glycerose GlycolUc aldehyde 




a-Acrose 

I 

a-Acrosazone 

I 

a-Acro6one 
<//-Practose 




I'Pruciou 



<i/- Mannitol 

I 

<f/-Mannonic acid 



/-Mannonic acid 



/-Gluconic acid 
UGlucosi 



l-Manuosi 



dMznnomc acid 



d-Mannose 
if-GIucosazone 

; 

<{-Glucosone 

; 

d'Fruetost 



<{-Gluconic acid 

; 

d'Glucose 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 137 

cyanide to give galactonic acid. It was only in this somewhat round- 
about fashion that the complete synthesis of galactose and other 
hexoses derived from dulcitol could be effected 

Fischer regarded the other products of synthesis /8-acrose and 
formose as either allied to sorbose or containing a branched and not 
a straight chain of carbon atoms. Nef states that formose consists of 
hexoses and pentoses in equal proportions. 

By alkaline condensation of pure glyceraldehyde under conditions 
which would be unlikely to cause the aldose 1^ ketose conversion 
(presence of ci per cent, excess of baryta at the ordinary temperature) 
Schmitz has obtained a solid crystalline mixture of inactive hexoses. 
Recrystallisation from hot methyl alcohol separated this into dl- 
fructose (a-acrose),m. p. I29°-I30°, andrfZ-sorbose, m.p. 162**-! 63°, which 
represents )3-acrose. The appearance of the ketonic group in the sugar 
synthesis must take place at the triose stage and therefore, strictly 
speaking, the reaction is condensation of glyceraldehyde with dihy- 
droxyacetone and not auto-condensation of glyceraldehyde : limita- 
tions are thus imposed on the number of hexoses which can theoretically 
be produced. The mechanism of acrose formation is thus established 
with a considerable degree of certainty. 

Both glycollic aldehyde and dioxyacetone are produced when form- 
aldehyde is condensed by means of calcium carbonate, and H. and A. 
Euler have shown that a pentose, ^-arabinoketose, is the main product 
of this polymerisatioa It is derived from the condensation of gly- 
collic aldehyde and dihydroxyacetone. 

CHj(OH) . CHO + CO(CH, . OH)2 =. CHj(OH) . [CH . OH], . CO . CH,(OH). 

Arabinoketose has not yet been found among plant products. 

The Synthesis of Carbohydrates in the Plant^ 

Though the primary facts of the photochemical assimilation by the 
green leaf may be regarded as definitely established the full explanation 
of the process is still outstanding. Priestley (1771), Ingenhouse (1779) 
and Senebier (1788) established that green plants acquire their carbon 
from carbonic acid; De Saussure (1804), Boussingault (1861) showed 
that the volume of oxygen exhaled and that of carbon dioxide absorbed 
are approximately equal ; Sachs in 1862 proved that the first visible 
product of the process is starch. Brown and Morris (1893) showed 
that the first sugar which could be identified is sucrose, an observation 
confirmed by Parkin (191 1), and Usher and Priestley (1906) found that 

^ A fall account of the historical side of the question has been given by Meldola in a 
presidential address to the Chemical Society in 1906. 



138 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

formaldehyde is the first detectable compound of an aldehydic char- 
acter. Baeyer in 1870 advanced the hypothesis that formaldehyde 
formed by the reduction of carbon dioxide is the first product of as- 
similation : the aldehyde is considered to undergo polymerisation 
subsequently to carbohydrate. 

Although this hypothesis is generally accepted as a working basis 
two difficulties have always been experienced ; firstly all attempts to 
prove the presence of formaldehyde in the green parts of plants have 
led to inconclusive results, and secondly the experiments made to 
ascertain whether plants can utilise this aldehyde directly as a source 
of carbohydrates have indicated that it acts as a poison. 

However, more recent investigation now enables both questions 
to be answered in the affirmative. Usher and Priestley claim to have 
obtained from leaves, which had been killed by immersion in boiling 
water, after exposure to light, sufficient formaldehyde to be detected 
by the usual tests. Their work has been criticised by Ewart, Mameli 
and Pollacci, but it has been confirmed by Schr)n^er, using Rimini's 
test for formaldehyde (the formation of a brilliant magenta colour with 
phenyl hydrazine hydrochloride, potassium ferricyanide and hydro- 
chloric kcid). Schryver concludes that chlorophyll can form formal- 
dehyde directly, but that it rarely becomes sensible because it does not 
accumulate in the cell, since it is withdrawn to form sugars as fast as 
it is formed. 

Boussingault's experiments have been latterly repeated by Will- 
statter and Stoll in a trustworthy manner, eliminating respiratory 
effects. They find the *>* assimilatory quotient," that is the ratio of 
carbon dioxide absorbed to oxygen liberated, to be unity whether the 
temperature is 10** or 35° or whether the atmosphere is rich or deficient 
in carbon dioxide. 

Glycollic and glyceric aldehydes and dihydroxyacetone are all 
intermediate stages in the laboratory synthesis of fructose from form- 
aldehyde, but there is no evidence of these being found among normal 
plant products. They have so far only been encountered as down- 
grade products of the action of certain bacteria on mannitol or glucose. 
Attempts to imitate in the laboratory the formation of formaldehyde 
from carbon dioxide and water, HjCO, + 2H2O -> CHjO + 2Hs02, 
have been numerous, but, if some controversial and very doubtful experi- 
ments be excepted, formic acid has- been in all cases the sole product 
of the reduction. However, definite proof of the formation of formal- 
dehyde has been given by Fen ton (1907), who has shown that it is 
formed when carbon dioxide is reduced by means of metallic magnesium. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 139 

Brown and Morris, in 1893, working with the leaves of Tropaeolum, 
came to the unexpected conclusion that sucrose is the first sugar to 
be synthesised by the assimilatory processes. It functions in the first 
place as a temporary reserve material accumulating in the cell sap of 
the leaf parenchyma. As assimilation proceeds and the concentration 
of the cell sap exceeds a certain amount, which protfably varies with 
the species of plant, starch is elaborated by the chloroplasts. This 
forms a more stable and permanent reserve material than the sucrose. 
Sucrose is translocated as glucose and fructose, starch as maltose, the 
latter process only taking place when the starvation of the cell has in- 
duced the dissolution of the starch by the leaf diastase. Fructose and 
glucose are the sugars which contribute most to the respiratory re- 
quirements of the leaf cell, glucose being more quickly used up than 
fructose. Probably a larger amount of fructose than of glucose passes 
out of the leaf into the stem in a given time. 

Parkin selected the leaves of the snowdrop (Galanthus nivalis) for 
investigation since this leaf does not form starch except in the guard 
cells of the stomata, though the bulb contains starch and inulin in 
abundance. Maltose was also proved to be absent from the leaf. 
His analyses confirm Brown and Morris that sucrose is the first sugar 
to appear and that the hexoses arise from it by inversion. Here again 
the quantity of fructose in the leaf is almost invariably in excess of that 
of glucose. The total quantity of the hexoses remains remarkably 
constant. 

Although the weight of evidence is strongly in favour of the view 
that sucrose is the first sugar formed in photosynthesis, some observers 
hold that hexoses are to be regarded as the primary products, sucrose 
being formed later by synthesis either in the leaf or in the root. 
Strakosch, for example, employing microchemical methods, concluded 
that glucose was the first sugar formed in the mesophyll of the leaf: 
his experimental work does not, however, carry conviction. In the 
previous edition of this book attention was directed to the work of 
Campbell but it has since been shown by Davis that in Campbell's 
analyses the cane sugar was greatly under-estimated, and his work 
must therefore be regarded as merely preliminary and his data and 
conclusions entirely withdrawn. 

A most careful study of the carbohydrates of the mangold leaf 
under actual normal conditions of growth has been made by Davis, 
Daish and Sawyer in 1916, whose papers summarise the work in this 
very difficult field. The facts they bring forward confirm the view of 
Brown and Morris that sucrose is the primary sugar formed in the 



140 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

mesophyll of the leaf under the influence of the chlorophyll. It is 
transformed into hexoses in the veins, midribs and stalks, the pro- 
portion of hexoses increasing as the root is approached. It enters the 
root as hexose and is there reconverted into sucrose, remaining as such 
until required for the growth of the second season. Invertase is en- 
tirely absent from the root, so that it is highly improbable that the 
synthetic change is effected by this enzyme. 

Starch is entirely absent from the leaf after the very earliest stages 
of growth, and maltose is entirely absent at all stages and at all times. 
Pentoses only form a small proportion of the total sugars ; they are 
apparently formed from the hexoses and appear to be precursors of 
the pentosans. 

Davis shows that the determination of glucose and fructose separ- 
ately in leaf extracts is rendered difficult by the presence of optically 
active impurities not precipitated by basic lead acetate : it is therefore 
premature to draw any conclusions from the proportion of apparent 
glucose or fructose in plant tissue as to whether either of these sugars 
is better adapted than the other to tissue formation or to respiration. 
Davis, however, considers that the two hexoses exist in the leaves and 
stalks as invert sugar and travel in nearly, if not exactly, equal pro- 
portions to the root. 

Davis has studied in a similar manner the fluctuations in the carbo- 
hydrates in the potato leaf. Here also the first sugar to develop is 
sucrose : its amount increases from sunrise up to 2 P.M. and then falls. 
Up to 2 P.M. there is very little fluctuation in the amount of starch. 
At 2 P.M. the hexoses (derived from sucrose by hydrolysis) begin to 
increase, soluble starch appears for the first time and its amount in- 
creases regularly up to a maximum at 6 p.m. Between this hour and 
midnight the amount of starch falls so that finally only a very small 
proportion is left (0*2 per cent.). The starch is apparently converted 
directly into glucose, the amount of which increases in the leaf. 
Maltose is invariably absent from the potato leaf and also from the 
leaves of other plants which form much starch in the leaf; apparently 
the leaf enzymes are able to degrade starch completely to glucose. 
Glucose is certainly in excess in the stalks of the potato, and the starch 
in the tuber is built up from this hexose. 

Assuming that Baeyer's hypothesis is correct and that formaldehyde 
is the first product of the synthesis, two questions await an answer. 
Firstly, how is the condensation of the aldehyde caused ; secondly, 
through what intermediate stages do the compounds pass ? 

The vital synthesis differs essentially from that carried out in the 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 141 

laboratory in affording optically active products. It might be sup- 
posed that the plant manufactures inactive racemic hexose and uses the 
laevo-isomerides for purposes which are still unknown. In spite of 
frequent search, however, it has never been possible to detect /-glucose 
or /-fructose in the leaves of plants, and the work of Brown and Morris 
leaves hardly any doubt that hexoses of the ^-series and their poly- 
saccharides are the only products of assimilation. 

The living oi^nism is not satisfied with merely elaborating a par- 
ticular sugar, but shapes it in a definite manner to a definite space con- 
figuration. 

Fischer has pictured the carbon dioxide or formaldehyde as enter- 
ing into combination with the complicated optically active protoplasm 
of the chlorophyll granule, and being synthesised to optically active 
carbohydrates under the influence of the asymmetry of the protoplasm 
molecule. 

The formaldehyde elements are received one after the other, and 
superposed according to a definite plan until six are united, when the 
completed dextro-glucose or fructose molecule is split off and the pro- 
cess begins anew, only optically active substances being formed. 
Synthesis by laboratory methods leads to optically inactive forms, 
though apparently chemical synthesis does not take place entirely 
symmetrically when several asymmetric carbon atoms are present 

It is now generally agreed that the protoplasm of the chlorophyll 
granule contains enzyme elements, and that it is these which occasion 
S3mthesis. The protoplasmic complex may be regarded as built up of 
a series of associated templates (enzymes) which serve as patterns for 
the niaintenance of vital processes and of growth. The assimilated 
carbon dioxide, either before or after condensation to formaldehyde, is 
brought into contact with these templates in the protoplasm, and con- 
tiguous molecules are united to form the complete sugar, shaped 
according to the structure of the template. The enzyme specific for 
each particular hexose when incorporated in the protoplasmic complex 
may well serve as the template for its manufacture. Maltase, for ex- 
ample, might occasion the formation of a-glucose, emulsin that of 
/8-glucose, lactase that of galactose, and invertase, or some similar 
enzyme, that of fructose. The existence of contiguous maltase and 
invertase ^ branches in the protoplasmic complex might determine the 

^ Armstrong's recent researches suggest that invertase is compatible, at one and the 
same instant, with both glucose and fructose, so that its presence in the protoplasmic com- 
plex would, under suitable conditions, lead to the formation of cane sugar. It is probable 
that invertase is only compatible with the ethylene-oxide form of fructose and not with the 
butylene-oxide isomeride. 



142 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

formation of glucose and fructose in contiguity, and these might unite 
to cane sugar. Again, two glucose molecules in contiguity might unite 
to maltose, or a series formed in contiguity might remain potentially 
active so that a number would unite and give rise to a starch molecule, 
a- and /3-glucose would remain as such so long as they were incorpo- 
rated with the protoplasm ; when split off into the cell fluid they would 
no doubt tend to pass over in the equilibrated mixture. 

Certain claims have been made in reference to the synthesis of 
carbohydrates from simple substances by means of sunlight or ultra- 
violet light Thus glycerol in alkaline solution is partly converted 
into a-acrose (Bierry and Henri) after exposure to ultraviolet light ; 
after many months in sunlight sorbose has been obtained from a mix- 
ture of formaldehyde and oxalic acid (Inghilleri). 

The Synthesis of Disaccharides. 

Although in the hands of Fischer the problem of the synthetical 
preparation of the natural simple carbohydrates — the monosaccharides 
— has been solved, the next step, the synthesis of the disaccharides, 
.still awaits a satisfactory solution. 

The earliest synthetical disaccharide was obtained by Fischer by the 
action of cold concentrated hydrochloric acid on glucose. The com- 
pound obtained was termed isomaltose on account of the resemblance 
to maltose, from which it differed in being nonfermentable. The pro- 
cess had the disadvantage that it could not be controlled, so that only 
small quantities of disaccharide were formed together with considerable 
quantities of dextrin-like products. It was shown subsequently, as 
described later, that both maltose and isomaltose are formed by this 
process. A more hopeful method, based on Michael's glucoside syn- 
thesis, appeared to be the combination of acetochloro glucose with the 
sodium salt of a hexose. This method has been repeatedly used in 
attempting to synthesise cane sugar, and Marchlewski claimed to have 
been successful in artificially obtaining this sugar. Subsequent workers 
have found it impossible to confirm his results, and they are to be 
queried also for other reasons, chief of which is the observation of 
Fischer and Armstrong that a-compounds of glucose in presence of 
alkali undergo rearrangement to )8-compounds. These observers failed 
to prepare a-phenyl glucoside from a-acetochloro glucose and sodium 
phenolate, obtaining instead the /8-phenyl glucoside. Sucrose, a de- 
rivative of a-glucose, should not therefore be formed. The evidence 
brought forward by Marchlewski in proof of the formation of cane 
sugar was also very inadequate. There are thus no grounds for ac- 
cepting this synthesis. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS ^ 143 

By the interaction of acetochloro galactose with sodium glucosate 
or of acetochloro glucose with sodium galactosate, Fischer and Arm- 
strong obtained disaccharides of the type of maltose which they termed 
galactosido-glucose and glucosido-galactose. These sugars were suf- 
ficiently closely related to the natural products to be hydrolysed by 
enzymes. Top yeast was without action, bottom yeast was able to 
ferment both disaccharides. They were hydrolysed by emulsin, but 
not affected by maltase or invertase. Both reduced Fehling's solution, 
formed phenyl osazones and osones, but could not be obtained in a 
crystalline state. The galagtosido-glucose possessed very great simi- 
larity to the natural sugar melibiose both in structure, similarity of the 
phenyl and bromophenyl osazones and in physiological behaviour, and 
it is very probable that these disaccharides are identical. 

The galactosMo-galactose obtained by the same method resisted 
the action of yeast but was hydrolysed by emulsin. It is of interest 
now that crystalline galactobioses have been synthesised by means of 
emulsin. 

Fischer and Delbriick have made use of )9-acetobromo glucose to 
effect the synthesis of disaccharides allied to trehalose. When aceto- 
bromo glucose is shaken in dry ethereal solution with silver carbonate 
and traces of water are added from time to time, bromine is eliminated 
and two molecules are joined through the intermediary of an oxygen 
atom to form an octacetyl disaccharide : — 

2Ci^H„OjBr + H,0 = Cj8H„0i« + aHBr 

This is obtained both crystalline and in an amorphous form, the latter 
being regarded as a mixture of isomerides. 

These acetyl compounds when hydrolysed by cold barium hydroxide 
solution are converted into cfisaccbarides. That from the crystalline 
acetate, termed isotrehalose, differs from trehalose in optical rotatory 
power, [a]o - 93'4^ but resembles it closely in chemical properties. It 
is a colourless amorphous powder, which does not reduce Fehling's 
solution and is easily hydrolysed to glucose when boiled with dilute 
mineral acids. The disaccharide from the amorphous acetate is re- 
garded as a mixture, it has [0]^ about - 1*3°. It is remarkable in 
being partially hydrolysed both by yeast extract and by emulsin. 

Consideration of the constitutional formula of trehalose — 



CH,(OH) . CH{OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CHv 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH(OH) . CH^ 

I o ■ J 



144 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

shows that three stereoisomerides are possible, as the two carbons in 
clarendon type are asymmetric Using the prefixes a and /3 in the 
same sense as in the acetobromo glucoses, these isomerides may be 
described as aa, fi/3 or afi, according as the constituent glucoses are 
present in the a or jS form. 

Hudson from optical considerations has identified natural trehalose 
as the aa form and isotrehalose as the fi/3 form : — 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OH), . CH 

i O I 

-0 




I /. 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . (CH . OH), . CH 

The same method has been extended by Fischer to the synthesis of 
non-reducing tetrasaccharides from acetobromo lactose and acetobromo 
cellobiose. In both cases the products were contaminated with re- 
ducing disaccharide and they could not be purified 

The isotrehalose synthesis has been extended to the preparation 
of disaccharides containing sulphur and selenium (Schneider and 
Wrede). 

Treatment of )8-bromoacetylglucose with potassium hydrosulphide 
gave the octa-acetate of the thiodisaccharide CijHjgOiQS, which latter 
crystallises i in hexagonal leaflets, m.p. 174°, [a]^ - 85^ It is called 
thioisotrehalose from its apparent analogy with isotrehalose. It is 
remarkably resistant to hydrolytic reagents, warm aqueous alkalis 
and mineral acids. It is unattacked by emulsin, yeast enzyme, tre- 
halase and myrosin. It does not reduce Fehling's solution. 

Similarly, from )8-bromoacetylglucose and potassium selenide, an 
octa-acetate of selenoisotrehalose, CiaHgaOjQSe, was obtained. The 
sugar closely resembles the thio-derivative, and melts at 193**, 
[ajo - 84". Both sugars are sweet, and when administered to dogs 
or guinea-pigs are excreted unchanged. 

The remarkable reactivity of the ethylene-oxide form of the hexose 
sugars is illustrated by their behaviour towards methyl alcohol con- 
taining 0*25 per cent, of hydrogen chloride, studied by Cunningham. 
In the case of galactose the active sugar condenses with the methyl- 
galactosides to form a methyldigalactoside having the structure : — 

McO . CH . (CH . OH), . CH . CH(OH) . CH, . O. CH . CH . (CH . OH), . CH, . OH 

I o I \o/ 

This is an amorphous solid, [a]i> + 101°, showing marked instability 
towards neutral potassium permanganate. It is of interest that no 
structural modification of the digalactoside can be obtained by varying 
the form of the methylgalactoside employed in its preparation. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 145 

The reaction cannot be readily controlled, and when a hexose is 
dissolved in the methyl alcohol reagent and the solution concentrated, 
products of greater complexity, viz. a methyltetragalactoside, containing 
three ethylene-oxide linkages, are obtained. Glucose and maltose 
behave similarly to galactose, but with fructose charring inevitably 
occurred on concentration. It is remarkable that lactose remained 
entirely unaffected by the reagent. 

Nef has effected the synthesis of polysaccharides from hexoses and 
pentoses. By keeping concentrated aqueous solutions at the ordinary 
temperature in the presence of i to 3 equivalents of calcium acetate 
bishexoses (CnHjnOn)^ are slowly formed. 

In the presence of metallic hydroxides these are converted into 
disaccharides (Ci2H220n) by salt formation and subsequent loss of 
metallic hydroxide. The synthetic sugars have not been further 
characterised 

S]mthesis by Enzymes. 

Far more interesting than the above method of synthesis is that 
effected by means of enzymes. There can be no doubt that, in the 
plant, enzymes function as synthetical agents. 

The first to observe the synthetical or, as he termed it, reversible 
action of enzymes was Croft Hill. Hill proved that the hydrolysis 
of maltose by dried yeast extract in concentrated solutions was not 
complete, and that, starting from glucose alone in concentrated solu- 
tion, a disaccharide was produced by the action of maltase. This sugar 
he at first considered to be maltose, a conclusion controverted by Em- 
merling, who, repeating Croft Hill's experiments, considered the product 
to be £r(7maltose identical with that obtained by Fischer by the action 
of acid on glucose. Subsequently Croft Hill admitted the chief pro- 
duct to be an isomeride of maltose, but he regarded it as different from 
isomaltose and termed it revertose. He still claimed that maltose is 
also formed in small quantity. E. F. Armstrong considered that the 
product of the synthetical action of maltase on glucose was isomaltose 
identical with that produced by the action of hydrochloric acid on 
glucose, and showed that the two products agree in being hydrolysed 
by emulsin though not by maltase. They were accordingly regarded 
as having the structure of glucose ^-glucosides. Croft Hill showed 
that his synthetical product was almost completely hydrolysed on 
dilution, indicating that the process is reversible, or that at all events 
the same mixture of enzymes which effects synthesis is able to hydro- 

lyse the synthetic product 

10 



146 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

A disaccharide is also formed when a mixture of glucose and 
galactose in concentrated solution is left in contact with lactase. This 
is undoubtedly isomeric with milk sugar but differs from it in being 
completely fermented by bottom yeast 

The process by which a monosaccharide is converted into a disac- 
charide in presence of a synthetical catalyst must be regarded as pre- 
cisely similar to that by which a- and /S-glucoses are converted into 
the two methyl-glucosides. Glucose on condensation should give rise 
to both maltose and isomaltose synthesised from a- and /3-glucose 
respectively. The proportion of each ultimately present in equilibrium 
will depend to some extent on the proportions of the two glucoses in 
their equilibrated mixture and on their (possibly unequal) rates of 
condensation. This reasoning should apply so long as the condensa- 
tion is uncontrolled. Inasmuch as hydrolysis under the influence of 
enzymes is an absolutely selective process, as opposed to hydrolysis by 
acids which is general in character, it is to be supposed that synthesis 
under the influence of enzymes is likewise a controlled operation. 

The proof that hydrochloric acid forms both li^maltose and maltose 
from glucose was first given by E. F. Armstrong. The method of 
purification of the synthetical isomaltose mixture adopted by Fischer, 
viz. fermentation of the neutralised product with brewers' yeast, 
would have destroyed any maltose which had been formed Armstrong 
fermented a portion of the product with 5. Marxianus, a yeast which 
does not contain maltase and therefore is without action on maltose, 
in order to destroy the unchanged glucose. The resulting solution con- 
tained both maltose and isomaltose, and was partially hydrolysed by 
both maltase and emulsin. To remove the £r^maltose it was submitted 
to the joint action of emulsin and 5. Marxianus, It was not found 
possible to obtain the maltose in a crystalline condition from this 
solution, but the character of the osazone formed and the biological 
behaviour of the sugar leave little doubt of the presence of this sugar. 
Another portion of the original synthetical sugar was fermented with 
5. intermedians, and so freed from glucose and maltose. The result- 
ing tf^maltose solution behaved in all respects as described by 
Fischer. 

The manner of the synthesis by enzymes is still a matter of dispute. 
It is urged, on the one hand, that enzymes produce by synthesis the 
same bodies which they hydrolyse ; on the other hand, it is suggested 
that the action of the enzyme is restricted to the formation of a com- 
pound isomeric with that normally hydrolysed by the enzyme. A 
third view is that altogether distinct enzymes effect synthesis. 



HYDROLYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 147 

The arguments in favour of accepting the first view have been 
clearly put by Bayliss (see the Monograph on Enzyme Action in this 
series), and need not be repeated here. 

The question is complicated by the fact that the catalysts used are 
all mixtures of several enzymes. Yeast extract (maltase) contains at 
least five sucroclasts ; emulsin at least three. 

Armstrong has shown that the main product in the case of the 
action of yeast extract on glucose is isomaltose ; and contended that 
in the case of emulsin the main product is maltose. 

This contention can no longer be maintained in view of the proof 
given by Bourquelot and confirmed by Zemplen that gentiobiose is 
the product of the condensation of glucose in presence of emulsin. 
They have isolated the sugar in a crystalline state, and to Bourquelot 
belongs the credit of the first synthesis of a crystalline natural disac- 
charide. 

In all the above syntheses it cannot definitely be asserted that 
other isomerides are not also formed. When the complexity of the 
enzyme mixture, the number of reactive forms of the hexose and the 
variety of possible isomeric disaccharides are all taken into account 
the magnitude of the problem of their synthesis becomes apparent. It 
is to be hoped that it will be energetically attacked during the next 
decade. 

By the action of emulsin on a concentrated aqueous solution of 
galactose Bourquelot and Aubry have obtained two galactobioses. 
The one form was obtained in little spherical masses with a taste 
slightly sweeter than that of lactose. It had ao + 53° and showed 
mutarotation. The behaviour towards emulsin is not stated. The 
second modification crystallises in needles a + 35"* showing mutarota- 
tion. It is hydrolysed by emulsin. The behaviour of this second 
isomeride is not unlike the galactosidogalactose synthesised by Fischer 
and Armstrong from /8-acetochlorogalactose. 

The formation of tWo isomerides in this manner is of the greatest 
interest and the further study of their relationship is of much import- 
ance. 

In the case of invertase the evidence is most definite that the 
enzyme from yeast accomplishes a complete hydrolysis of sucrose to 
glucose and fructose and that no synthesis takes place. This reaction 
does not establish an equilibrium and is not a reversible or balanced 
change. This problem was investigated with the greatest care by 
Armstrong in 1901 and by Hudson in 1914 with all the refinement 
which the modern methods of experiment permitted. 

10 * 



148 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

It is well known from the work of Pavy and Bywaters that living 
yeast forms glycogen when brought into excess of sugar solution. 
The enzymes involved in this synthesis are probably to some extent 
still present and active in yeast juice, as Cremer found that in yeast 
juice, free from glycogen, in presence of sugar, a substance was slowly 
formed which gave the characteristic glycogen reactions. Harden 
and Young find that one or more dextro-rotatory polysaccharides are 
produced during alcoholic fermentation by non-living yeast prepara- 
tions. It is not settled whether these polysaccharides are formed 
from the glucose and fructose themselves or as the result of enzyme 
action on the products of hydrolysis of the hexose phosphate formed 
from them. 



CHAPTER VII. 

THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES. 

The term glucoside is applied to a large number of bodies having the 
property in common of furnishing a * glucose* and one or more other 
products when hydrolysed by acids. They are resolved with the 
addition of the elements of water into simpler compounds. Repre- 
sentatives of nearly every class of organic compound occur in plants, 
chiefly in the fruit, bark and roots, in combination with a sugar which 
is in most cases dextroglucose. These compounds are glucose ethers 
of alcohols, acids, phenols, etc ; they n^orrespond in structure to the 
simple methyl glucosides, and the general formula of a glucoside is 
accordingly written ; — 

^ CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . [CH . OH], . CH - O - R 

' O ' 

where R represents the organic radicle. It is noteworthy that the 
vegetable bases are only seldom found in the form of glucosides. 

The glucosides correspond to a certain extent to the paired glucu- 
ronic acid derivatives previously mentioned. In both instances more 
or less reactive specific substances are combined with the sugar residue 
to form indifferent and frequently more soluble substances. 

Glucosides are obtained by extraction of the plant substance with 
water or alcohol, an operation conveniently performed in a Soxhlet 
apparatus. It is necessary in the majority of cases first to destroy 
the accompanying enzyme when water is used as solvent. If this 
operation be omitted the glucoside is destroyed in the process of ex- 
traction. The purification of the extract is often a matter of difficulty 
owing to the scanty proportion of glucoside present. 

The glucosides as a class are generally colourless crystalline solids, 
having a bitter taste and laevo-rotatory optical power. Some of the 
best-known glucosides are the amygdalin of the almond and other 
rosaceous plants, the salicin of the willow and the sinigrin of the 
cruciferae. 

The glucosides are all hydrolysed by heating with mineral acids to 
sugar and an organic residue. They are decomposed at very different 



ISO THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

rates, some glucosides (e.g. gynocardin) being extremely resistant to 
acid hydrolysis. 

In the majority of cases the glucosides are hydrolysed by enzymes. 
The appropriate enzyme is contained in the same plant tissue, but in 
different cells, gaining access to the glucoside only when the tissue is 
destroyed. A great number of such enzymes exist, but it is too much 
to say that each glucoside has a special enzyme for its decomposition. 
The best-known glucoside-splitting enzymes are the emulsin of 
almonds and the myrosin of black mustard seeds. Both these enzymes 
can effect hydrolysis of a number of glucosides. 

Emulsin is especially wide in its action. Since it is the specific 
enzyme for /8-alkyl glucosides, all glucosides hydrolysed by it are 
regarded as derivatives of /8-glucose, though the fact that emulsin is a 
mixture of enzymes must not be lost sight of. No glucoside deriva- 
tive of a-glucose has so far been isolated from plants. 

The hydrolysis of glucosides by myrosin is undoubtedly connected 
with their sulphur content. 

The majority of the glucosides are derived from dextro-glucose, but 
since more attention has been paid to the group, glucosides derived 
from a number of other carbohydrates have been discovered in plants, 
and there is little doubt that fresh investigation will extend their 
number. Glucosides are known which are derived from d- and /-ara- 
binose, rf-xylose, rf-ribose, from rhamnose and other methyl pentoses, 
and from galactose, mannose and fructose. Glucosides containing 
carbohydrates other than glucose require special enzymes to effect 
their hydrolysis. 

Galactose has been identified in convallamarin, digitonin, robinin, 
sapotoxin, solanin. Mannose is found only in strophantin. 

Fructose is found in alliin (from garlic), and in the saponins from 
Sapindus rarak and Aesculus hippocastanum, 

Rhamnose is a constituent of baptisin, convallamarin, datiscin, 
frangulin, fustin, glycyphyllin, hesperidin, campferitrin, ouabain, 
naringin, quercitrin, robinin, rutin, ^^//Wi^-saponin, solanin, strophan- 
tin, trifolin, turpethein, xanthorhamnin. 

Pentoses or methylpentoses have also been found in antiarin, 
barbaloin, convolvulin, gentiin, jesterin, quinovin, saponin, turpethein, 
vernin, vicianin. 

Some glucosides yield two or more monosaccharides on hydrolysis. 
In such cases these are united as di- or trisaccharides. Using appro- 
priate enzymes, the sugar groups may be removed one at a time, and 
new glucosides are formed. Thus amygdalin contains two glucose 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 151 

residues, one of which is removed by an enzyme present in yeast and 
termed amygdalase. The new glucoside so formed was termed 
mandelonitrile glucoside : it has since been found in plants and named 
prunasin. 

Both on account of the very small quantity of a glucoside usually 
present in a plant, and the fact that glucosides do not as a rule form 
insoluble characteristic derivatives which allow of their isolation, it is 
difficult to discover new glucosides and still more so to determine 
their nature. The introduction of biochemical methods has much 
facilitated work of this kind Bourquelot's biological method has led 
to the discovery of several new glucosides, and ter Meulen has estab- 
lished the nature of the sugar component in several instances. Ter 
Meulen makes use of the fact (p. 122) that an enzyme is only com- 
patible with and therefore only enters into combination with that 
sugar, the simple glucosidic compounds of which it is able to hydrolyse. 
He has investigated the rate of hydrolysis of a glucoside by the 
appropriate enzyme in presence of a number of the simple sugars. 
Only one of these sugars retards the change ; the others are almost 
without influence. The glucoside in question is considered to be a 
derivative of that sugar which retarded the hydrolysis. 

For instance, rhamninose alone retards the hydrolysis of xantho- 
rhamnin ; glucose alone retards the decomposition of salicin or of 
amygdalin. In the case of glucosides of which the nature of the sugar 
component was not absolutely established, it was shown that aesculin, 
arbutin, coniferin, indican, sinigrin and several other glucosides con- 
taining mustard oils are derivatives of ^^glucose. 

Bourquelot's biological method of examining plants for glucosides 
consists in the addition of emulsin to an extract of the plant and the 
determination of the changes in optical rotation and cupric reducing 
power after a period of incubation. A change indicates the presence 
of /9-glucosides and its magnitude gives a rough indication of their 
quantity. 

In this manner taxicatin, C1SH22O7, has been discovered in Taxus 
baccata (Lefebvre) and the presence of aucubin demonstrated in a 
number of species of plantago (Bourdier). 

The use of invertase in the same manner affords a test for the 
presence of sucrose or raffinose. 

A number of the better-known glucosides are given in the follow- 
ing table which also shows the products of hydrolysis. They are 
classified under alcohols, phenols, aldehydes, etc., according to the 
nature of the non-sugar part of the molecule. 



152 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



TABLE XIX. 
Natvrai. Glucosidbs. 



Glncxkhi. 


M-p. 


ProdocM ef MydrolrHi. 








Phtncl,. 


Arbutio . 




aoo- 




Baptiiin . 




140° 




Glycyphyllin . 




m" 


Rhamnoie -4- phloictin 


Hesperidin . 




jji° 


Rhaninose + 3 glucose + helpetetin 


Irid^ . . 




ao8° 


Glucose + irigenin 


Methyl aibntin 




175° 


Glucose + hydroquinone methyl ethet 


Naringin 




170° 




Pbloridiin . 


C«H„0„ 


170° 


AUohoU. 


Conirerin 


C„H„0, 


185° 


GluciMe + conifeiyl alcohol 


Populin . . 


C^H^O 


180° 


Glucose + satigenin + benzoic acid 


Salidn . . 


C,.H„0, 




Glucose + saligenin 


Sytingin 


cX^, 


I9X* 


Glucose + sytingenin 


Amygdalin . 




300° 




Dhirrin . . 








Helidn . 






Glucose + salicylaldehyde 






141" 


Glucose + acetonecyanhydrin 






laa" 


Glucose + raccmic mandelonitrile 






147° 




Salinigim . 




195° 


Glucose + n..oxybenialdehyde 


Sambunigrin . 




151° 


Glucoie + i-mandelonitrile 


Vicianin . . 




i5o° 


Acids. 


Convolvulin . 


C«H„0„ 


150° 


GlucMe + thodeose + convotvulioolic acid 


Gaulthetin . 


t^H^or 




Glucose + methylsalicylate 


Jalapii, . . 


C^H^O„ 


'31" 


Glucose + jalapinolic acid 


AcKulin 


C„H„0, 


2os» 


Glucose + aeaculetin 


Dapbnin 


C„H„0. 




Glucose + daphne tin 


Fraxin . 


C„H„0,. 


3^° 


Glucose + fraxetin 


Scopolin 


ci,H,0„ 


aiS" 




Skimmin . 


cHh'o;* 


210 


Glucose + akimmetin 

Oxyanlhraguinom Dtrivaliv*!. 


Frangulin . 


C„H„0, 


aaS" 


Rhamnoae + emodin 


Polyeonin 


h^± 




Glucose + emodin 




358° 


Glucose + alizarin 


RubUdin 


^<o" 




OxyJtavoHi Derivativti. 


Apiin . . 

Campferitrin 
(Robinm) . 


C«H„0,. 


aaS" 


Apiose + apigenin 


C„H,0„ 


301° 




Euxanthic acid 










C,,H„0„ 




Glucuronic acid + euxanthone 


Putin . 


C»H,0„ 


aiS" 


Rhamnose + fiaeiin 




^H^O 




Glucose 4- gostypetin 


Incamauin . . 


C„H„0„ 


243' 




Isoqudcitiin . 


t^<t^ 


217' 


Glucose + quercetin 


LotuBin . . . 


a,H„0„N 




a Glucose + HCN + lotoflavin 


Quetcimeritrin 


C„H,0„ 


'47° 


Glucose + querceUn 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 



TABLE XIX. {cmtiiiiud). 



GlBcondc. 


H.p. 






, 


183° 


Rhamnose + quercetin 


Rutin . . 


*» 


184° 


Glucose + rhamnose + quercetin 


Serotin . . 


>ii 


245° 


Glucose + quercetin 


Sophorin 


'w 




Rhamnose + glucose + Bophoretin 


Thujin , 




•bI" 


Quercetin + traces of another glucoside 


Xanthorhamnin 


•» 




2 Rhamnose + galactose + rhamnetin 
Muitard Oili. 


Glurocheirolin C,, 




leo" 


Glucose + cheirolin 


GlucotTOpaolin 




Glucose + benzyl isothiocyanate + KHSO, 


Sinalbin 


138° 


Glucose + ainapin acid sulphate + acrinyl- 
isothiocyanate 


Sinigrin 


C„H„0,1<S,K 


136" 








AHthocymu. 


Cyanin . 


C„H„0„ 


203° 


a Glucose + cyanidin 


Ddphinin . 


C.,H.O„ 




2 Glucose + 2 ^-oxybenzoic add + dei- 

phinidin 
Galactose + cyanidin 


Id^n . . 


c„HmO,„ 


— 


Malvin . 


CnH„0„ 


165° 


2 Glucose + malvidin 


Myrtillin 


5hW 




Glucose + myrtillidin 


Oen[n . 


CaH„0„ 




Glucose + oenidin 


Pel argon in , 


c«H„o;; 


180" 


a Glucose + pelargonidin 

Digitaiii Grouf. 


Cy matin . 


C.H„0, 


138' 


Cymaiose (digitoxose methyl ether) ■«- 

strophanthidin 


Digitalin 




ai7° 


Glucose + g^actose + digitogenin 


Digilonin 




31S- 


Digitoxin . 




145° 




Gitalin . . 




155° 


Digitoxose + anhydrogitaligenin 
2 Galactose + digitogenin 


Gitin 




265° 


Gitonin . 




a?*" 


3 Galactoae -t- pentose + gitogenin 








Sap<,e'ni„,. 




xin (C„H,0„), 


— 


4 Sugars + C„H„0, 




S^E-A 






Caulosaponin 






Digitonin . 


C„H„0, 






DigitoBaponin 
aapotoxint . 


t:_H,o, 


~ 


Pentose + digitosapogenin 


•lfH:Sf"°'- 


_ 




.-nSerin . 




Arabinose -4- rhamnose + a-hederogenin 


Jegosaponin . 


C„H.O„ 


~ 


1 sapogenins 


Pariliin . 


Cj,H^.O,„ 




2 Sugars + parigenin, C„H^Oj 


PhytoBterolina 


C.H„0, 




Glucose + a sitosterol 


Polyreiasaponin* 


inS&"' 


~ 




QuUlaic acid . ■ 


CiiH.Oi. 






Quillaja gapotoxin 


lli&{v..o 


~ 


Several sugars + C^H—Oi 


Sareaaaponin . 






Smilacin 




~ 





IS4 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

TABLE XIX. (cmUiniudi. 



Glucogidi. 


U.P. 








VarioM. 


Aacubin. . . "" 


_ 


GIucoBB + aucubigenin 


Bacbaloin 




(j-acabinose + aloemodin 


CilnuUmbin . 






Datiscein 


190° 


RbamnoBC + datiscctin 


DibenzoylglucoxyloM H,C 


.48" 


Gluconylose + benioic acid 


Gentiin . 




Glucose + xylose + eentienin 
Glucoee + HCN + C,H,0, 




191° 






Indican . 




Glucose + indoxyt 


Quinovin . . 














_ 


i-Riboae + guanine 



The better-known glucoside-splitting enzymes are grouped in Table 
XX. together with the glucosides they decompose. Emulsin from 
almonds hydrolyses aesculin, amygdalin, androsin, arbutin, aucubin, 
bankankosin, calmatambin, conferin, daphnin, dhurrin, gentiopicrin, 
helicin, incamatrin, indican, melatin, oleuropein, plcein, prulaurasin, 
prunasin, salicin, sambunigrin, syringin, taxicatin, verbenalin, etc 

TABLE XX. 
Glucostdoclastic Enzyhbs. 



Eoiyme. 


Hrd™ly«. 


Piuna»e .... 
Gaultherate ! .' ! ! 


/Many natural glncosidea 
Fninasio and many otber nalural 

gluCOBidM 

Amygdalin 

Gaulflierin 

Linamarin 

Sinigrin and sulpbur glucosides 

Xanthorham nin 



The Principal Glucosides. 

A few only of the glucosides have been selected for detailed com- 
ment, more particularly for the purpose of showing the relationship 
between their structure and their distribution in plants. Such data, 
when more complete, will afford preliminary material for the differentia- 
tion of species upon a purely chemical basis, as has been indicated by 
Miss Wheldale. At present, since the knowledge of the glucosides is 
chiefly based on the investigation of substances used for medicinal 
purposes, only a beginning has been made in this direction. 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 155 

Phenolglucosides. 

ArbuttHy a colourless, bitter, crystalline substance, is obtained, 
together with methylarbutin, from the leaves of the bear berry, a small 
evergreen shrub {Arbutus uva urst)^ and from many genera in the 
EricacecBy and yields hydroquinone and glucose when hydrolysed by 
means of emulsin or mineral acids : — 

Hydroquinone is a powerful antiseptic: hence the pharmacolc^ical 
value of arbutin, which has also a diuretic action. Methyl arbutin was 
one of the first glucosides to be artificially synthesised. Michael 
prepared it by the interaction of hydroquinone methyl ether and 
acetochloro glucose. 

Commercial arbutin contains methyl arbutin ; to purify it, it is dis- 
solved in alcohol, precipitated by potassium hydroxide and the pre- 
cipitate collected, washed and decomposed with calcium carbonate 
(H6rissey). 

Mannich states that a better, but still imperfect, method of separa- 
tion of pure arbutin from the mixture is to take advantage of the 
additive compound formed by arbutin and hexamethylene tetramine. 

When arbutin is hydrolysed by emulsin the quinol formed becomes 
slightly oxidised by the oxydase present in the enzyme and the solution 
darkens in colour. Methyl arbutin, which yields quinol methyl ether 
on hydrolysis, does not darken in solution. It is hydrolysed more 
rapidly than arbutin. 

Bourquelot and Fichtenholz have made an extensive study of the 
distribution of arbutin in the leaves of Pyrus species. Pear leaves 
(Pyrus communis) contain as much as 1*2 to 1*4 per cent, of the 
glucoside, which can be extracted by ethyl acetate. None could be 
detected in Cydonia vulgaris^ Malus communis^ Sorbtis aucuparia, or 
S. torminalisy all of which were at one time classed with Pyrus : the 
modem classification is thus justified on biochemical grounds. 

The leaves of certain varieties of Pyrus turn black when they fall ; 
these contain arbutin which is hydrolysed to quinol by the leaf enzyme, 
the quinol in turn being acted on by an oxydase to form the black 
substance. In other varieties a golden yellow tint first appears which 
then gives place to black. These varieties are shown to contain 
methyl arbutin ; they produce at first a yellow and not a black oxida- 
tion product. 

Phloridzin, which is found in the bark of apple, pear, cherry, plum 
and other rosaceous trees, is remarkable for the property it possesses 
of causing glucosuria when taken internally. Emulsin is without 



156 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

action on it : mineral acids form glucose and phloretin, C^Hj^Oj, which 

is a condensation product of /-oxyhydratropic acid and phloroglucinol. 

Phloridzin has the formula — • 

(CbHuOb . 0)(OH),CjH, . CO . CHMe . CeH4(0H) 

When phloridzin is treated with barium hydroxide it is hydrolysed 
to phloretic acid and phlorin (phloroglucinol glucoside) : — 

C,H,(OH), - O - C,H„05, 

which last is identical with the phloroglucinol glucoside synthesised 
by Fischer and Strauss. Phloretin is a component also of Glycypkyllin^ 
the glucoside of the leaves of Stnildx glycyphylla^ where it is com- 
bined with rhamnose. 

The phloroglucinol complex is present in the aromatic part of a 
large number of glucosides. 

Salictn, a colourless, crystalline, bitter substance, is the active con- 
stituent of willow bark ; it has long been used as a remedy against 
fever and in cases of acute rheumatism. It is hydrolysed by emulsin 
to glucose and saligenin (^-oxybenzyl alcohol), and has the formula 
CjHjiOs . O. CjH4. CHjOH. Saligenin yields salicylic acid on oxi- 
dation, but has the advantage of being less irritant than this acid or its 
salts, and therefore does not produce digestive disturbances when 
administered medicinally. 

Salicin occurs in many but not all species of Salix^ also in poplars 
and in the flower buds of meadow-sweet, Spiraa ulmaria. In the 
willow it is found in the leaves and female flowers as well as in the 
bark ; the leaves and twigs of willows also contain a specific enzyme, 
salicase, which hydro lyses it (Sigmund). • 

Salicin forms bromo and chloro derivatives which are hydrolysed 
by emulsin. 

When shaken with benzoyl chloride a monobenzoyl derivative is 
obtained in which the benzoyl group is in the sugar nucleus and not 
attached to the alcohol group of saligenia This compound is identical 
with the natural glucoside populin found in the bark of a number of 
species of poplar {Populus). According to Weevers populin is hydro- 
lysed by an enzyme in Populus monilifera to salicin and benzoic acid. 
Emulsin is without action on populin. 

Helicifty the glucoside of salicylic aldehyde, is obtained on oxidation 
of salicin with dilute nitric acid. It has not been found to occur 
naturally, but was synthesised by Michael from salicylaldehyde and 
acetochloro glucose. Emulsin hydrolyses helicin and also its hydrazone 
and oxime. Helicin was coupled by Fischer with hydrogen cyanide 
to yield a synthetic cyano-genetic glucoside from which a further series 
of glucosides were obtained. 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSlDES 157 

Salinigriity the glucoside of »«-hydroxy benzaldehyde, is isomeric 
with helicin. It was only found in one species {Salix discolor) out of 
thirty-three samples of willow and poplar examined by Jowett and 
Potter. 

Gaultherifty the glucoside of methyl salicylate, is widely distributed 
in plants. It is not hydrolysed by emulsin, but gaultherase, the enzyme 
of Gaultheria procumbens and other plants, and mineral acids decom- 
pose it into glucose and methyl salicylate. 

Coniferin^ the glucoside of the fir-tree, is of importance as the start- 
ing-point for the synthesis of vanillin which is formed from it by oxi- 
dation with chromic acid 

It yields glucose and conifeiyl alcohol when hydrolysed by emulsin, 
and has t|ie formula : — 

(CbHuGj . O) . CeH,(OMe) . CH : CH . CH,OH 

By careful oxidation glucovanillin is formed, and this may be oxi- 
dised to glucovanillic acid or reduced to glucovanillyl alcohol. All 
three glucosides are hydrolysed by emulsin. ^^ 

A methoxy coniferin is syringitis the glucoside of the Syringa, which 
is likewise hydrolysed byiemulsin to syringenin (methoxy coniferyl 
alcohol). 

Coumarin Glucosides. — Coumarin is very widely distributed in 
plants : there can be little doubt that it is present in the form of a 
glucoside but this has not yet been isolated. Several glucosides con- 
taining hydroxycoumarins are known. 

Skimmin^ Ci^Hi^Og, a constituent of Skitntniajaponicay is the gluco- 
side of 4-hydroxycoumarin (skimmetin), which is isomeric if not identical 
with umbelliferone. 

Aesculin^ QgHi^O^, found in horse-chestnut bark {Aesculus hippocas- 
tanunt) and Daphnin^ a constituent of several species of Daphne^ are 
glucosides of isomeric dihydroxy coumarins named aesculetin and 
daphnetin respectively. 

Scopolin^ present in Scopolia japonica^ is aesculin monomethyl ether. 
It is said to contain two molecules of glucose. 

Limettiity the dimethyl ether of aesculin, is found in citrus. 

Fraxin^ CjjHjgOio, found in the ash, in species of Aesculus and 
in DienvillUy is the glucoside of a monomethyl ether of trihydroxy- 
coumarin termed fraxetin. The position of the methyl group is un- 
certain. 

The following formulae show the relation of these glucosides : it 
is not known which hydroxy! is attached to the glucose residue : — 



158 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 




CH : CH . CO CH : CH . CO 
OHf JO 




toH OH\^+ Me 

OH OH OH OH 

Skimmetin. Aesculetin. Daphnetin. Fraxetin. 

Madder. 

Madder, the ground root of Ruina tinctarum^ which was long con- 
sidered as the most important dye-stuff and has been cultivated from 
remote antiquity, consists of a number of glucosides of which the 
most important is ruberythric acid This is composed of two mole- 
cules of glucose and alizarin, Le; dihydroxyanthraquinone. The 
glucose molecules are probably united as a disaccharide since the 
glucoside is strongly acid and forms red coloured salts indicating the 
presence of a free hydroxyl group. Since its synthesis by Graebe 
and Liebermann alizarin has been manufactured entirely from anthra- 
quinone and the madder industry destroyed. 

The madder contains an enzyme, erythrozym, which hydrolyses 
the glucoside. 

Other glucosides present in madder are those oipurpurin which is 
trihydroxyanthraquinone : xanthopurpurin which is a dihydroxyanthra- 
quinone isomeric with alizarin and rubiadin^ which is a methyl deriva- 
tive of xanthopurpurin united to one molecule of glucose. 

Hydroxyflavone or Anthoxanthinglucosides . 

The great majority of the soluble yellow plant pigments are 
glucosides derived from ilavone or xanthone ; that is, they contain the 
benzopyrone nucleus : — 

/°\CH 

11 

CH 
CO 

In the pigments so far studied this nucleus contains one or more 
hydroxyl groups and is united to the simple aromatic compounds 
benzene, phenol, catechol, resorcinol or pyrogallol. The structure of 
the pigments has been deduced by the study of their decomposition 
products and in many instances confirmed by their synthesis : much 
of the progress in this group is due to the researches of A. G. Perkin. 
Syntheses of many of the hydroxjrflavones have been accomplished by 
a method due to Kostanecki. 

The sugar residue may be either glucose or rhamnose, or some 
other monosaccharide or even a disaccharide, the methylpentoses being 




THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 159 

common in this group. In addition to the differences in the non- 
sugar part of the molecule there are several isomerides possible accord- 
ing to which phenolic group is concerned in the attachment to the 
sugar. Such differences in constitution will correspond with differ- 
ences in the properties of the several glucosides, especially in their 
behaviour towards acids. 

The flavone glucosides are in general colourless or nearly so and 
it would appear probable that when a yellow tint is due to their 
agency it is to be traced, as in the case of the yellow cotton flower, to 
their presence as a potassium or other salt The sugar-free pigments, 
which occur also in the free state along with the glucosides, are yellow 
crystalline solids giving a number of characteristic colour reactions. 

The following hydroxyflavones or their glucosides have so far been 
isolated from plants : — 

The glucoside of chrysin (i : 3-dihydroxyflavone) 

HO/^— O . C— CjHb 




OH 

has not been itself isolated, but the flavone occurs in various species of 
poplar and mallows. 

Apiifiy the glucoside present in the leaves of parsley, celery, etc., 
is hydrolysed to glucose, apiose (a sugar of abnormal structure with 
five carbon atoms) and apigenin (1:3: 4'-trihydroxy flavone) : — 

HOy\— O . C— CeH4(0H) 

X II 4' 

I J-CO . CH 

OH 

According to Perkin the sugar residue is united to the hydroxyl 
group marked x. Apigenin has been identified by Wheldale as the 
basis of the ivory white of antirrhinum flowers. 

The glucoside of luteolin (i : 3 : 3' : 4' : tetrahydroxy flavone), the 
colouring matter oi Reseda luteola and Genista tinctoria^ has likewise not 
been isolated : — 

Ho/\— O . C— CjH,(OH), 

II 3', 4' 

-CO.CH 

OH 

The glucoside of galangin (i : 3-dihydroxy flavonol) occurs in 
the root of Galanga : — 

HOfN— O .C— CjHj 




OH 



II 
'— CO.C.OH 





i6o THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Catnpferitrin (Robinin) is the glucoside of the white azalea 
{Robinia pseudacacia) and of Java indigo. It is composed of glucose, 
rhamnose (2 molecules) and campherol (1:3: 4'-trihydroxy flavonol) : — 

HO/N-O .C— C,H4(0H) 

II 4' 

IwJ— CO . C . OH 
OH 

Fustin^ the glucoside of fustic {Rhus cotinus) and perhaps aiso of 
Quebracho coloradOy is hydrolysed to rhamnose and 2 molecules of fisetin 
3:3': 4'-trihydroxyflavonol) : — 

HO/^— O . C-.CeH,(0HJ, 
Leo. C. OH ^'^ 

Quercitrin is the glucoside of the oak bark. It is easily hydrolysed 
by acids to rhamnose and quercetin (quercitin) - 1:3:3': 4'-tetra- 
hydroxyflavonol : — 

Ho/\-0 .C-C,H,(OH), 

II 3'. 4' 

'—CO . C . OH 

OH 

Quercetin is very widely distributed in plants from many of which 
the glucoside has not been isolated It frequently occurs, together 
with other pigments of the group. It follows indigo and alizarin in 
industrial importance as a natural dye-stuff. 

Incarnatrifty the glucoside of crimson clover {Trifolium incarnatum\ 
contains glucose and quercetin and is hydrolysed by emulsin. 

Monomethyl ethers of quercetin also occur as glucosides. 

X author hamniiiy the glucoside of various species of rhamnose, is 
composed of galactose, rhamnose (two molecules) and rhamnetin 
(monomethyl quercetin). According to Tanret the methoxyl group 
occupies positions i or 3. Wheldale considers it replaces the OH 
group in the 7-pyrone ring. Frangulin, from Rhamnus frangula^ is 
not identical with xanthorhamnin, being a glucoside of emodin. 

An iso-rhamnetin has been isolated by Perkin from an Indian dye, 
asbarg, from Delphinium zalU and from the wallflower : it is i : 3 : 4'- 
hydroxy 3'-methoxy flavonol : — 

H0//\— O . C-C8H,(0H) (OMc) 

f II 4' 3' 

I J_CO . C . OH . 

HO 

A dimethyl ether of quercetin is rhamnazin, present in the fruits 
of Rhamnus species^ 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES i6i 

When quercitrin is methylated with diazomethane (Herzig) the 
free hydroxy! groups are readily methylated and ultimately a penta- 
methyl quercitrin obtained, one methyl entering into the rhamnose 
molecule. On hydrolysis a tetramethyl quercetin is formed in which 
the hydroxyl in the pyrone ring is left unmethylated. The attach- 
ment of rhamnose and quercetin must accordingly take place through 
this hydroxyl. 

Quercimeritrin obtained from the flowers of Gossypium herbaceum 
is composed of glucose and quercetin. Acids hydrolyse it with difii- 
culty. The sugar residue is supposed to be attached either to the 
hydroxyl group I or 3. 

Iso-quercitrin accompanies quercimeritrin in cotton flowers. It 
differs from it in being easily hydrolysed by acids to glucose and 
quercetin. 

Rutifty which is widely distributed in plants, is hydrolysed with 
difliculty by acids to quercetin, glucose, and rhamnose. 

Thujitiy in Thuja ocddentcUis (arborvitae), consists of quercitrin 
accompanied by traces of another glucoside. 

Serotin^ present in Prunus Serotina, is easily hydrolysed by acids 
to glucose and quercetin. 

The glucoside of yellow wood {Morus tinciorid) contains morin 
(i 13:2': 4'-tetrahydroxyflavonol) : — 

Ho/\o .C— CaH,(OH)a 

I II 2'. 4' 

V. JCO . C . OH 

OH 

Myrtcitin (i : 3 : 3' : 4' : 5'-pentahydroxyflavonol) : — 

H0/\0 . C— C,H, (OH), 
I II 3', 4'. 5' 

I yco.c.oH 

OH 

is found in the leaves of Rhtis species and in the bark of Myrica magi. 
Gossypitriny one of the glucosides present in Egyptian cotton 
flowers, yields on hydrolysis glucose and gossypetin, — CiftHi^Og, it has 
the following formula though the position of the hydroxyl groups in 
the tetrahydroxybenzene nucleus has not yet been determined with 
certainty. The sugar is attached to the tetrahydroxybenzene 
nucleus : — 

^ |0 . C-CeH3(OH)a 

?(OH)J II 3'.V 

*C0.C.0H 

11 




i62 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Quercetagetin^ from, the flowers of the African marigold {Tagetes 

patula)y is very closely allied to gossypetin, both containing tetra- 

hydroxybenzene and catechol nuclei. It perhaps has the structure 

of a 1:2:4:3': 4'-pentahydroxyflavonol, though the i : 2 : 3 : 3' : 4' 

alternative is also possible. 

Gossypetin forms an interesting quinone, gossypetone, on hy- 
drolysis, which resembles the quercetone obtained from quercetin by 
the action of chromic acid Grossypitrin yields a similar quinone on 
oxidation by means of benzoquinone. Perkin suggests this has the 
structure : — 

o 

C«HioO, . o/\o . C-0 . CeH,(OH), 

. JcO.C.OH 
O 

Perkin has compared the glucosides of a variety of cotton flowers. 

The red flowers of G.-arboreum contained isoquercitrin ; the yellow 
flowers of the Indian G.-neglectum contained gossypetrin and iso- 
quercitrin ; whereas the yellow flowered Egyptian variety contained 
quercimeritrin as well. White flowered varieties G.-Rossum gave only 
very small quantities of a glucoside resembling apigenin, and the 
pink flowers of G.-sanguineum contained only traces of flavones. 

The leaves and flowers of Upland cotton G.-htrsutum contain 
quercimeritrin and isoquercitrin, the latter being present in the petals 
only. 

The xanthone colouring matters also come within this group. 

Euxanthane is formed when cattle are fed with mango leaves. 
The urine contains euxanthic acid (Indian yellow) which is a combina- 
tion of glucuronic acid with euxanthone. The pigment is made in 
Bengal and largely used in India. Euxanthone is 2 : 3'-dihydroxyxan- 

thone : — 

o 




'OH 
OH CO 

Gentisin, the yellow pigment present in Gentiana luteay no doubt 
originally in the form of a glucoside, is 4-methoxy-2 : 3-dihydroxy- 
xanthone. 

The hydroxyflavone glucosides are so widely distributed in plants 
in the form of colouring matters in the cell sap that the occurrence of 
the parent substance, flavone, is of quite especial interest It is present 
as the farina of many species of primula in almost pure condition, as 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 163 

was shown by Hugo Miiller. No opinion is expressed by him as to 
the physiological function which flavone exercises in the economy of 
the plant life, though the fact that it is excreted so freely would seem 
to imply that it is of no further use in the life process although its 
repellant action towards water is probably of importance. This ob- 
servation has been confirmed by Shibata and Nagai, who find that 
the waxlike or powdery coverings of many plant organs contain flavone 
compounds secreted by the epidermis. 

The same observers have examined the leaves, flowers, bark, wood, 
etc., of over 240 species of tropical plants and find that flavones were 
invariably present They suggest that the flavone glucosides exert a 
protective action against the solar rays, especially those of short-wave 
length which are injurious to the living protoplasm, and evidence the 
fact that plants grown in the shade contain less flavone glucoside than 
those grown in the open. Similarly, plants provided with a heavy 
cuticle are usually poor in flavones. They further find that flavones 
and anthocyanins often interchange, showing they have the same pro- 
tective function. Thus young shoots contain red anthocyanin which 
changes into the colourless flavone glucoside in the green organ and 
back into the anthocyanin before the fall of the leaves. 

To detect the flavone the tissue is extracted with hot alcohol and 
a few cubic centimetres of the extract are heated with a drop of 
mercury, a little magnesium powder, and a few drops of concentrated 
hydrochloric acid in a test tube. In the presence of a flavone, reduc- 
tion takes place with a vigorous generation of hydrogen gas and the 
production of a red colour. 

Anthocyan Glucosides. 

The soluble red, violet, and blue pigments of the cell sap are all 
glucosides. They are being investigated by Willstatter who has 
shown they are derivatives of the complex benzo-pyrilium nucleus : — 




which differs from the benzopyrone nucleus of the hydroxyflavones in 
having a CH group n place of the CO group. The oxygen atom in 
the ring is strongly basic and forms quadrivalent stable salts with 
acids. The phenolic hydroxyl groups can form salts with alkali. 

Willstatter explains the existence of the red, violet, and blue 



II* 



i64 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

colours as follows : the red is the acid salt, the blue is the potassium 
or metallic salt, and the violet is the anhydride of the pigment : — 

o o 

O.ci I I o.ci 

\/\/ \/\/ \/\/ 

Red. Violet. Blue. 

The colour is due to the quinonoid structure of the molecule. 

To prepare the anthocyans the material is extracted with cold 
glacial acetic acid and the extract precipitated with ether. A syrup 
is precipitated which is dissolved in warm aqueous picric acid solution : 
on cooling the crystalline picrate separates. It is converted into the 
chloride which can be crystallised from dilute alcohol containing 
hydrochloric-acid. 

The anthocyans so far investigated are : — 

(i) From cornflower and rose, 

cyanin, C^H^GisCl » 2 mols. glucose + cyanidin. 

(2) From cranberry, 

idain, CgiHg^GioCl = galactose + cyanidin. 

(3) From blue grapes, 

oenin, CsgH^OisCl =3 glucose + oenidin. 

(4) From whortleberry, 

myrtiUin, C^^HgiOisCl « glucose + myrtiUidin. 

(5) From larkspur, 

delphinin, C^iHyOgiCl *m 2 mols. glucose + 2 mols. /-oxy-benzoic acid + del- 
phinidin. 

(6) From geranium, 

pelargonin, CgyHjO^Cl a 2 mols. glucose + pelargonidin. 

(7) From mallow, 

malvin, (^K^OYfCl « 2 mols. glucose + malvidin. 

(8) From paeony, 

paeonin, Cj^H^OigCl a 2 mols. glucose + paeonidin (= cyanidin methyl eUier). 

The close relationship which exists between the anthoc}^nidins 
and the anthoxanthins is shown by the fact that — 

Cyanidin is isomeric with luteolin, campherol, and fisetin ; 

Delphinidin is isomeric with quercetin and morin ; 

Pelargonidin is isomeric with apigenin and galangin. 

All three compounds give phloroglucinol when heated with alkali. 
Willstatter gives them the following constitutional formulae : — 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 165 






OH OH 

Pelargonidin. Cyanidin. 

CI 

O OH 

OH 
Delphinidin. 

The interconversion of the anthoxanthins and the anthocyanidins 
is a matter of the greatest interest as it undoubtedly takes place in 
the plant probably under the influence of oxidative and reducing 
enzymes. Chemically the change is not easily effected though quer- 
citin has been reduced to cyanidin by Everest. Pelargonidin has been 
synthesised by Willstatter. 

The rdle of oxydases in the formation of the anthocyan pigments 
of plants has been studied by Keeble and Armstrong. 

Digitalis Glucosides. 

The leaves of the foxglove {Digitaiis purpured) contain apparently 
more than five glucosides which form the active constituents of digi- 
talis, but their nature has been but scantily investigated. 

Digitoxiny the most active principle, is insoluble in water; on 
hydrolysis it forms digitoxigenin and a sugar, C5H13O4, digitoxose. 

There are apparently two digitoxins, one of which forms a hydrate. 
The commercial product made by Merck changed from one form to 
the other in 1895. Digitoxose is very unstable and much of it is 
resinified when the glucoside is hydrolysed even with 0*5 per cent, 
hydrochloric acid. 

Digitalin possesses in a high degree the physiological action of 
digitalis, decreasing the frequency and increasing the force of the beat 
of the heart ; it yields digitaligenin, glucose, and digitalose, C7H14O5, 
on hydrolysis. 

Digitonifiy which comprises one-half of the mixed glucosides of 
the seeds, belongs to the saponins: it dissolves sparingly in water, 
forming opalescent solutions which froth on agitation. It is hydro- 
lysed to glucose (two molecules), galactose (two molecules) and 



i66 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

digitogenin. Characteristic is the formation of a crystalline precipitate 
with cholesterol. 

Merck's preparation of digitonin is a mixture of glucosides ; a 
constituent gitonin, C^^H^QO^if has been isolated by Windaus, as an 
amorphous substance giving an additive compound with cholesterol. 
It is hydrolysed to galactose (three molecules), a pentose (one mole- 
cule) and the crystalline gitogenin, Cj^H^O^. 

Kraft has studied afresh the glucosides present in digitalis leaves 
and describes a member of the saponin class, digitosaponin, which is 
apparently identical with digitonin, but yields a pentose and digito- 
sapogenin upon hydrolysis. 

Gitalin^ CjgH^gOjQ, an amorphous, neutral and very sparingly 
soluble glucoside possessing physiological activity, was also isolated 
by Kraft By evaporation of the alcoholic solution he obtained the 
crystalline anhydrogitalin, CjsH^^O^. Both gitalin and its anhydro- 
derivative give the same products of hydrolysis, namely, digitoxose 
and anhydrogitaligenin, C,2H3405. 

Kiliani states, on the other hand, that gitalin itself is a mixture of 
glucosides, separable by fractional solution in water and a mixture of 
organic solvents into fractions differing in physiological action, solu- 
bility, and hydrolytic behaviour. 

Some of the glucosides of digitalis seeds form crystalline addition 
products with amyl alcohol, thus allowing the separatioil of digitonin 
and gitonin in the precipitate from digitalin in the solution. 

The work of Windaus and Hermanns has shown that cymarin, the 
active principle of Canadian hemp {Apocynum cannabinum), belongs to 
the digitalis group of glucosides. When hydrolysed it yields cymari- 
genin and a new sugar cymarose which behaves as the methyl ether of 
digitoxose. Cymarigenin is identical with apocyanamarin obtained 
by Moore from Apocyanum androscemifolium and with strophanthidin 
from strophanthin-Kombe. An interesting relation between the three 
glucosides is thus established : — 



^84^84011 


= C„HaO, + 


2C.HUO4 


Digitoxin 


Digitoxigenin 


Digitoxose 


Cao^440i 


= CjsHjoO. + 


C,H,,0, 


Cymarin 


Cymarigenin 


Cymarose 




a Strophanthidin 


= Digitoxose methyl 




■ 


ether 


^88^84015 


= C„H„0, + 


Ci8^a40io 


Strophanthin 


Strophanthidin 


Strophantobiose 



methyl ether. 

Strophantobiose is said to be composed of mannose and rhamnose. 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 167 

Hirohashi states that the youngest leaves of digitalis are the most 
active physiologically : they should be collected before inflorescence. 

There is no difference in activity between red and white flowers. 
Cultivated digitalis is as active as the wild variety and the first year's 
growth is as active as that of the second (Hatcher). 

Oleander leaves contain two crystalline active glucosides similar 
to those in digitalis leaves. The whole of the active substances in 
oleander leaves are readily extracted by cold water : this solubility 
seems due to the large amount of a phenolic glucoside present in the 
leaves which is not a true tannin. 

A careful study of the development of the glucosides in germinating 
and growing digitalis plants has been made by Straub. The amount 
of the glucosides was estimated by a pharmacological method, viz. by 
determining the number of lethal doses for a frog. The glucosides 
studied were digitalinum verum and digitalein, which are soluble in 
water, in the seeds and further digitoxin, which is insoluble in water 
but soluble in chloroform, and gitalin, soluble in both water and chloro- 
form, in the leaves. The glucosides of the seeds are not reserve 
materials but disappear during germination and are stored in the 
leaves, in which organs they do not increase further in quantity. 

The leaf glucosides are found in the earliest foliage leaves and 
continue to increase in quantity until they form one per cent of the 
dried matter : it is supposed that they are only waste products of the 
metabolism of growth. 

Indican. 

Plants which yield indigo do not contain the colouring matter 
as such but in the form of a glucoside indican, which is readily ex- 
tracted from the leaf by means of acetone. Indican yields glucose 
and indoxyl on hydrolysis ; the indoxyl (colourless) undergoes further 
oxidation to indigotin (the blue colouring matter) : — • 

Ci,H„0,N + HjO = C^HmOj + CgH^GN 2C8H,0N + O^ = 2HaO + C^^H^fi^^^ 
Indican. Glucose. Indoxyl. Indoxyl. Indigotin. 

Indigotin is readily obtained on hydrolysing indican with dilute 
acids containing a little ferric chloride as an oxygen carrier, but the 
yield under these conditions is not quantitative. In the plant an 
oxydase plays an important part in the formation of indigotin. 

Indican is also hydrolysed by a specific enzyme, indimulsin, which 
is present in the leaves of the indigo plant. Emulsin also slowly 
hydrolyses indican, but its action is far less intense than that of the 
Indigofera enzyme preparations. The yield of indigotin in this case is 



i68 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

also below the theoretical, especially when hydrolysis is slow : this is 
due to the great instability of indoxyl and in part also to the occlusion 
of indoxyl by the enzyme. It may be improved by adding a small 
quantity of sulphuric acid to the mixture at the commencement of the 
reaction. Technically it is of the greatest importance that the yield 
of natural indigo obtained on the manufacturing scale be a maximum. 

Mustard Oil Glucosides. 

A number of plants belonging to the cruciferae yield glucosides 
containing sulphur. These give rise to mustard oils when hydrolysed 
by the enzyme myrosin which accompanies them in the plant. The 
best-known representatives of this class are sinigrin and sinalbin, 
found in the seeds of the black and white mustard. When the seed 
of black mustard is bruised and moistened, the odour of allylisothio- 
cyanate is easily recognised. The myrosin and the glucoside are con- 
tained in separate cells in the seed, and do not interact until brought 
together by the solvent. 

The recognition of an ethereal oil as the active principle of black 
mustard dates from 1730 (Boerhave). Bussy was the first to isolate 
the glucoside, which he termed potassium myrOnate, and the accom- 
panying enzyme myrosin. Will and Korner gave the name sinigrin 
to the glucoside, and showed that it is hydrolysed to allylisothio- 
cyanate, glucose, and potassium hydrogen sulphate : — 

CwHieOjNSjK + HjO = C,Ha . NCS + C«HuOe + KHSO4 

Sinigrin was subsequently investigated in detail by Gadamer, who 
proposed the formula — 

CjH, . N : C(S . C,H„Ob) . 0(SO,K) 

Schneider's isolation of the silver derivative of thioglucose from 
sinigrin tends to support this view. 

When potassium methoxide is added to sinigrin, potassium sulphate 
separates at once, and on adding ammoniacal silver nitrate the silver 
salt of thioglucose is obtained, proving that the glucose molecule is 
attached to the sulphur atom in the glucoside : — 

C,H, . N : C . (OSO.K) . S . C^HnOj 

^CaHj . N : C(OMe) . S . CgHnOg 

►HS . CeHi^O, 

At the same time another decomposition product, merosinigrin, is 
formed which is characterised by great stability : it forms a triacetate 
and may be a ring compound : — 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 169 



o 



CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CH . CH(OH) . CH . CH 

O S 



C : N . CjH, 

It is not hydrolysed by emulsin or by yeast extract or any known 
enzyme other than myrosin. As hydrolysis proceeds, the increasing 
quantity of acid potassium sulphate formed renders the ferment less 
active and ultimately stops its action. 

Guignard has very carefully investigated the localisation of myrosin 
in the plant. It occurs in special cells with finely granular contents 
which are free from starch, chlorophyll, fatty matter, and aleurone 
grains. 

Sinalbin is likewise hydrolysed by myrosin, which accompanies it 
in the seeds, to glucose, sinalbin mustard oil (/-hydroxybenzylisothio- 
cyanate) and acid sinapin sulphate : — 

C»HttOi,N,S, + HjO = CeH„0, + C^H^O . NCS + CwHj^O.N . HSO4 

Barium hydroxide converts acid sinapin sulphate into choline and 
sinapinic acid : — 

C,H,{OH)(OMe), . CH : CH . CO,H 

It is of interest that the alcohol corresponding with this acid is 
syringenin, a constituent of the glucoside syringin. 

Glucochetroltny CiiH2QOiiNSgK, H3O, occurring in wallflower seeds, 
has been studied by Schneider and found to be a derivative of an 
aliphatic sulphone. Its probable constitution is — 

CH, . SOa . CHj . CHa . CHj . N(0 . SO,K) . S . O^U^fi^ 

It is hydrolysed to glucose and cheirolin by myrosin. 

Pentosides. 

Barbaloifiy CaoHjgOg, is hydrolysed to ^/-arabinose and aloemodin, 
^15^10^6' ^^^^ pentose was at first described under the name aloinose 
(Leger) : it affords one of the rare instances of the natural occurrence 
of both ^and / modifications of a carbohydrate (q.v. arabinose). VAra- 
binose is a constituent of the saponins as well as of gums and pentosans. 

Vemifiy CiqHi,04Nj,2H30, is guanine-^ribose. Originally dis- 
covered by Schulze in the seeds of Lupinus luteus^ it was recognised 
as a pentoside by Schulze and Castoro. It is identical with the guanosin 
obtained by Levene and Jacobs from nucleic acid and with the pentoside 
obtained by Andrlik from molasses. The pentose was recognised as 
^-ribose by Levene and Jacobs and used by them for the synthesis of 
it-zWosG and ^altrose. 



I70 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Dibenzoylglucoxylose^ CjjHjgOjjjHaO* the first naturally occurring 
simple glucoside of benzoic acid which has been discovered, was ob- 
tained by Power and Salway from Daviesia latifolia. It is hydro lysed 
to benzoic acid and glucoxylose, a non-reducing disaccharide. Acid 
hydrolysis of the latter leads to the production of glucose and xylose. 

Amyg:dalin. 

Amygdalin is perhaps the best known and at the same time the 
most interesting of the glucosides ; it has formed the subject of re- 
peated and fruitful investigation ever since its discovery eighty-nine 
years ago, and even to-day the exact structure is not satisfactorily 
established. It is an example of a glucoside which contains nitrogen ; 
on hydrolysis it yields benzaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide and two mole- 
cules of glucose. It is found in large quantities in bitter almonds and 
in the kernels of apricots, peaches, plums, and most fruits belonging to 
the Rosaceae. It is the antecedent of the so-called essence of bitter 
almonds, and is widely used as a flavouring material. Like most 
glucosides it is a colourless, crystalline, bitter substance soluble in 
water. 

The presence of hydrogen cyanide in the aqueous distillate of 
bitter almonds was observed at the very beginning of the nineteenth 
century by Bohm ; the crystalline glucoside was first obtained by 
Robiquet and Boutron Charlard in 1 830, who showed its connection 
with the essence of bitter almonds. 

In 1837 Liebig and Wohler found that amygdalin was hydrolysed 
by a certain nitrogenous substance, also existing in the almond, to 
which they gave the name emulsin, in accordance with the equation — 

CjoHs,OiiN + 2H,0 = C^HjO + HCN + 2CaH„0, 
Amygdalin. Benzalde- Hydrogen Glucose. 

hyde. cyanide. 

They proved it to be a glucoside of benzaldehyde cyanhydrin. 

Ludwig in 1856 pointed out that hot mineral acids hydrolyse 
amygdalin, giving rise to the same products as emulsin does. Schiff 
was the first to suggest that the two glucose molecules were united as 
a biose — 

C,H, . CH(CN) . O - CjHioO^ . O . CeH„Oa. 

and this view became generally accepted when it was shown by 
Fischer that amygdalin may be resolved by an enzyme, contained in 
yeast extract, into a molecule of glucose and one of a new glucoside 
which he termed mandelonitrile glucoside — 

C,H, . CH(CN) . O— CeHnO, 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 171 

Fischer came to the guarded conclusion that amygdalin was a deriva- 
tive either of maltose or of a closely related diglucose. The view that 
amygdalin is a maltoside has passed into the literature (cf. Dunstan 
and Henry, British Association Report, York, 1906). 

Recent work, however, does not support this supposition. Neither 
in its behaviour towards enzymes nor in its chemical properties does 
amygdalin behave as a maltoside. 

When hydrolysed by means of strong hydrochloric acid, amygdalin 
gives /-mandelic acid, and Fischer's amygdonitrile glucoside is corre- 
spondingly ^/-mandelonitrile glucoside.^ 

Amygdalin at first sight seems to present an exception to the rule 
that enzymes which attack )9-glucosides are strictly without action on 
a-glucosides, and vice versa. Emulsin hydrolyses amygdalin at both 
glucose junctions ; an enzyme in yeast extract (maltase ?) also attacks 
one of these. This junction must either be attackable by two distinct 
enzymes, or the enzymes in question must be mixtures and contain a 
common constituent. The latter hypothesis has proved to be correct. 

Caldwell and Courtauld, in the course of a quantitative study of 
the hydrolysis of amygdalin by acids, showed that change takes 
place more readily at position Y in the molecule than at position X, 
as indicated in the formula — 

C,Hb . CH(CN)0 . C,HioO . O . CsHuO, 

The first product of acid hydrolysis is therefore the mandelonitrile 
glucoside obtained by Fischer; and this can be prepared in such 
manner. It was further shown that the action of yeast extract on 
amygdalin was due not to maltase but to the presence of a hitherto 
unknown enzyme appropriately termed amygdalase. This is more 
stable towards heat than maltase, and can be obtained almost free 
from maltase by preparing the extract at an elevated temperature. 

The fact that an enzyme distinct from maltase effects the hydro- 
lysis of amygdalin is clear proof that the glucoside does not contain 
maltose. Additional confirmation of this is afforded by the fact that 
the rate of hydrolysis of amygdalin either by amygdalase or by emulsin 
(ter Meulen) is not affected by the presence of maltose. This last 
sugar should have slowed the reaction had it been a constituent of the 
glucoside. 

When amygdalin is hydrolysed by emulsin it is not possible at 
any stage of the reaction to detect the presence of a diglucose. In 
reality, under the influence of emulsin prepared from an aqueous 

^ According to the existing nomenclature /-mandelic acid forms J-mandelonitrile. 



172 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

extract of almonds, two actions are going on at the same time, viz. 
hydrolysis at the centre Y, forming mandelonitrile glucoside and 
glucose, and, more slowly, hydrolysis of the mandelonitrile glucoside 
at X, forming benzaldehyde cyanohydrin and glucose. By interrupt- 
ing the hydrolysis at the proper point it is possible to isolate the 
mandelonitrile glucoside. Such experiments prove that almond ex- 
tract contains amygdalase in addition to the emulsin proper, which 
hydrolyses /8-glucosides. Amygdalase is entirely without action on 
)9-glucosides. 

The second enzyme in emulsin has been found in the leaves of 
many plants where it occurs without amygdalase. Since it was first 
found in the leaves of the common cherry laurel it has been named 
prunase and the mandelonitrile glucoside on which it acts is termed 
prunasin. 

" Emulsin " thus contains two enzymes, amygdalase and prunase, 
which act in turn on amygdalin. It is a remarkable fact that prunase 
is unable to act until the molecule has first been simplified by the 
action of amygdalase : this is taken as proof that the second molecule 
of glucose in some way shields the prunasin part of the molecule from 
attack by prunase. This explains the many unsuccessful attempts to 
obtain the disaccharide from amygdalin by means of plant enzymes. 

This protective influence does not appear to apply, however, in the 
case of the enzymes present in the intestinal juice of the snail which, 
according to Giaja, are able to hydrolyse amygdalin in the first place 
to benzaldehyde cyanohydrin and a disaccharide, the latter subse- 
quently undergoing further hydrolysis. The new carbohydrate is 
stated not to reduce Fehling's solution, that is, it is a disaccharide of 
the trehalose type. It has not been further investigated. 

The amygdalin molecule is exceptional in containing several centres, 
marked X, Y, Z in the formula — 

NC . CHPh . O . C,Hio04 . O . C^Uyfis, 
Z X Y 

totally different in their chemical nature, which are attackable by 
hydrolytic agents; its behaviour is, therefore, of the very greatest 
interest. 

Amygdalin yields the same products (glucose, benzaldehyde and 
hydrocyanic acid) when treated with emulsin as when heated with 
dilute hydrochloric acid. In each instance the primary formation of 
^mandelonitrile glucoside indicates that the biose junction Y is the 
first point to be attacked. The course of hydrolysis by concentrated 
acids is altogether different (Walker and Krieble). Concentrated 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 



173 



hydrochloric acid hydrolyses it to amygdalinic acid and ammonia in 
the first place at centre Z ; subsequently, the amygdalinic acid breaks 
down at junction Y to /-mandelic acid glucoside and glucose so that 
junction X is the last point to be attacked. Concentrated sulphuric 
acid has very little tendency to attack the nitrile group at Z, the 
primary action being to eliminate ^mandelonitrile. The biose junction 
Y is the point most susceptible of attack by sulphuric acid at all con- 
centrations. Sulphuric acid decomposes benzaldehyde cyanohydrin 
(junction Z) only with extreme difficulty. 

In addition to ^/-mandelonitrile glucoside two other glucosides hav- 
ing the same composition are known. These are : prulaurasin, first 
described in the amorphous state under the name laurocerasin, and 
since obtained crystalline from the cherry laurel by Herissey ; and 
sambunigrin, separated by Bourquelot and Herissey from the leaves 
of the common elder {Sambucus niger). These substances are both 
mandelonitrile glucosides ; their properties are set out in the following 
table : — 

TABLE XIV. 





M.p 


Wd. 


• 

Prunasin s dextro mandelonitrile glucoside ^ . . . 
Prulaurasin = racemic mandelonitrile glucoside . 
Sambunigrin » laevo mandelonitrile glucoside . 


i47°.i5o'> 
120°- 122° 
I5i°-i52" 


- 26-9** 

- 537° 

- 76-3° 



Dunstan and Henry suggested that the differences between these lay 
in the nature of the sugar residue. This can hardly be the case, as 
they are all three attacked by emulsin, and therefore derivatives of 
^-glucose. 

Prulaurasin is, in fact, a racemic mixture of the two stereoisomeric 
d- and /-mandelonitrile jS-glucosides, and is analogous to isoamygdalin, 
the racemic form of amygdalin, which was first prepared by the action 
of alkali on amygdalin by Walker and subsequently studied byDakin ; 
it yields inactive mandelic acid when hydrolysed by acids ; indeed, 
prulaurasin is obtained by acting on isoamygdalin with yeast extract — 
amygdalase (H6rissey). Sambunigrin is the ^-glucoside of /-mandelo- 
nitrile glucoside, and derived from a still unknown isomeride of amyg- 
dalin. Prulaurasin is obtained from either of the other two isomerides, 
when their aqueous solutions are rendered slightly alkaline. 

The true relationship of these glucosides was first established by 

' According to the existing nomenclature /-mandelic acid forms {/-mandelonitrile. 



174 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Caldwell and Courtauld, and their conclusions have been entirely con- 
firmed by Bourquelot and H6rissey. More recently amygdonitrile 
glycoside has been /liscovered as a natural product, so that all three 
isomerides must play some part in plant economy. H6rissey found 
it in the young branches of Cerasus Ptuius ; Power and Moore have 
obtained it from wild cherry bark {Prunus serotina). It has been 
named prunasin. 

The kernels of the cherry laurel contain as much as 4 per cent of 
amygdalin : this plant, like most others, stores a more elaborate pro- 
duct in its seeds than is present in the leaves. 

The inter-relationship of these compounds is indicated in the ac- 
companying scheme. Possibly the unknown isomeride of amygdalin 
will also be found in the plant : — 



Amygdalin 



Amyg 



^^i 



Unknown 



Isoamygdalin 



dalase 



Prunasin 
i-mandelonitrile glucoside 
(ex. /-mandelic acid). 



Amyg 




dalase 



Sambunigrin 
/•mandelonitrile glucoside 
{$x. £f-mandelic add) 




Prulaurasin 
i2/-mandelonitrile 
glucoside 



The synthesis of the mandelonitrile glucosides has been success- 
fully carried out by Fischer and Bergmann, who obtained the acetylated 
glucoside of ethyl mandelate in racemic form by treatment of the 
synthetic ester with acetobromoglucose and silver oxide in the con- 
ventional manner. A methyl alcoholic solution of ammonia transformed 
the ester into the corresponding glucosidic amide, and this was resolved 
into its pure optically-active forms by fractional crystallisation. The 
individual forms were converted by the action of phosphorus oxy- 
chloride into the tetra-acetyl derivatives of ^ and /-mandelonitrile gluco- 
sides, which were, of course, identical with the tetra-acetates of prunasin 
and sambunigrin respectively. 

On removal of the acetyl groups by hydrolysis racemisation sets 
in, and the product was found to be r-mandelonitrile glucoside, 
or prulaurasin. The synthetic racemic glucoside was resolved by 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 175 

fractional crystallisation into </-mandelonitrile glucoside^ (prunasin) 
and /-mandelonitrile glucoside (sambunigrin). 

Cyanophoric Glucosides. 

Hydrocyanic acid has frequently be'en isolated from plants, but it 
is only quite recently that its formation has been ascribed invariably to 
the decomposition of a glucoside. Besides amygdalin and the isomeric 
mandelonitrile glucosides a number of other glucosides have been 
isolated, which yield hydrogen cyanide when hydrolysed ; they are 
conveniently grouped together under the term cyanophoric glucosides. 
Although rare compared with the occurrence of saponin in plants the 
distribution of hydrogen cyanide is proving much wider than was at 
one time imagined ; its production has been observed in many plants of 
economic importance. A useful list of plants which yield prussic acid 
has been compiled by Greshoff. Some of the cyanophoric glucosides 
may be briefly mentioned : — 

Dkurrifty first isolated by Dunstan and Henry from the leaves and 
stems of the great millet, is a /am-hydroxymandelonitrile glucoside, 
and therefore closely related to the three mandelonitrile glucosides 
just described. Like them it is hydrolysed by emulsin. 

Gynocardiriy isolated by Power from the oleaginous seeds of Gyno- 
cardia odorata^ yields prussic acid, glucose and an unknown substance, 
QHg04, on hydrolysis. It is accompanied in the seeds by an enzyme, 
gynocardase, which also decomposes amygdalin. 

Linamarin or Phaseolunatin^ C^HnOj . O . CMe, . CN, was first 
isolated by Jorissen and Hairs from young flax plants and subse- 
quently by Dunstan and Henry from Phaseolus lunatus. The latter 
authors consider it to be acetonecyanohydrin-a-glucoside, but it has 
since been shown to be a derivative of /8-glucose. Hydrogen cyanide 
and acetone have been obtained from a number of plants on hydrolysis 
and possibly linamarin is widely distributed. It is the glucoside in 
the seeds of the rubber tree, Hevea brasiliensis. The glucoside is 
accompanied in plants by a specific enzyme linase which has been 
fully investigated by Armstrong and Eyre. Phaseolus lunatus con- 
tains two enzymes — an emulsin which, however, according to Dunstan, 
is without action on phaseolunatin and an enzyme of the maltase type 
which hydrolyses both phaseolunatin and amygdalin, forming man- 
delonitrile glucoside in the latter case. It is perhaps identical with 
the amygdalase described by Caldwell and Courtauld. 

1 Fischer uses the inverse notation, deriving the glucosides from 4- and /-mandelic 
acids and not from their nitriles. 



176 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Linamarin has been synthesised by Fischer and Anger from ^- 
acetobromo-glucose thus confirming its structure as a glucoside. The 
acetobromo-glucose condenses with ethylhydroxyisobutyrate to ethyl- 
tetracetyl-glucoside-a-hydroxybutyrate — 

(0Ac)4 . CgHfO, . O . CMe, . CO^t, 

which is extremely slowly hydrolysed by emulsin. Ammonia con- 
verts it into o-hydroxybutyramideglucoside — 

C^HnO, . O . CMcj . CO . NH„ 

whilst on treatment with phosphorylchloride it yields tetracetyl lina- 
marin. 

Lotusin^ discovered by Dunstan and Henry in Lotus arabicus^ is of 
interest for two reasons. Like amygdalin it gives rise to two mole- 
cules of glucose on hydrolysis and therefore probably contains a 
disaccharide. The other products of hydrolysis are prussic acid and 
lotoflavin — an isomeride of fisetin. In the alkaline hydrolysis one of 
the glucose residues is obtained as heptagluconic acid, indicating that 
the cyanogen radicle is associated with the sugar residue. Lotusin is 
not hydrolysed by almond emulsin but it is resolved by an enzyme 
(lotase) which accompanies it, but as this also decomposes amygdalin 
and salicin it probably contains emulsin. 

Vtcianin has been found only in the seeds of a wild vetch, Vicia 
angustifolta. It is decomposed by an enzyme (vicianase) present in 
certain vetches into hydrogen cyanide, benzaldehyde and a disaccharide, 
CiiHj^OiQ, vicianose, which is hydrolysed further by the emulsin of 
almonds into glucose and /-arabinose (Bertrand). Accordingly, vici- 
anin represents amygdalin in which one molecule of glucose is re- 
placed by arabinose. 

A common grass Tridens flavens contains a considerable amount 
of hydrogen cyanide, the maximum quantity being present in the 
inflorescence tops. The quantity diminishes from August onwards, 
being nil in October. 

Saponins. 

The saponins are a numerous, widely distributed class of glucosides 
found in a great variety of plants ; they are known to be present 
in more than four hundred plants belonging to about fifty different 
orders, and of these about fifty species have been studied and the 
saponins isolated 

Their most characteristic properties are the production of a soapy 
foam on mixing with water, and their toxicity, especially to cold- 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 177 

blooded animals such as frogs and fishes ; these were recognised as 
characteristics of the plants containing them in very early times, for 
example, by the Greeks. 

All the saponins have many characteristics in common. Physically 
they are white or cream-coloured powders, in most cases colloidal 
and only dialysable with great difficulty, although recently several 
crystalline members of the group have been discovered. To the latter 
class belong several of the digitonin glucosides, parillin, sarsasaponin 
and cyclamin. 

They are soluble in water, giving clear solutions which froth 
strongly on agitation, form emulsions with oils or resins, prevent the 
deposition of finely divided precipitates, and occlude electrolytes and 
also many soluble dye-stuffs. The saponin of soapwort {Saponaria 
officinalis)^ for example, in its colloidal form gives a blue adsorption 
compound with iodine, although the crystalline constituent does not 
(Barger and Field). In general the saponins are insoluble in ether, 
benzene, chloroform, and cold ethyl alcohol, but freely soluble in hot 
alcohol. 

They possess a very bitter, acrid taste, and the dust of the powdered 
saponins is very irritating and sternutatory. As already mentioned, 
they are strong poisons to fish, the action here being of a chemical 
nature ; on the other hand, they possess haemolytic action of a more 
physical type, occluding the red corpuscles of the blood. The more 
poisonous saponins are referred to as sapotoxins. 

The saponins may be broadlydivided, from a chemical standpoint, 
into neutral and acid saponins. Formerly they were classified accord- 
ing to their formulae, the earliest members which were studied forming 
an homologous series of the general formula, CwHjn-sOio (sometimes 
termed, after its discoverer, Robert's series). Subsequently other 
saponins were found to belong to a similar series, C^Hj^.iQOig, whilst 
more recently other glucosides, the properties of which entitle them 
to be classified as saponins, have been isolated and do not fall in 
either homologous series. 

On hydrolysis the saponins yield a variety of sugars (frequently 
several molecules of carbohydrate), and physiologically active sub- 
stances termed sapogenins ; the latter have not as a rule been 
thoroughly examined, but are often compounds of a polyhydroxy- 
lactone nature. The sugars found to exist in combination with the 
sapogenins vary, glucose, galactose, and arabinose being the more 
common, whilst more rarely other pentoses and fructose are obtained. 

All saponins form poisonous additive compounds with cholesterol. 

12 



178 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

Many sapogenins, such as those from guaiacum, saponaria, and 
digitonin give terpene oils when distilled in hydrogen with zinc dust 
(van der Haar). 

The saponins are isolated from the root, leaves, seed, etc., of the 
plants by extraction with water and precipitation with neutral or basic 
lead acetate respectively, according as the saponin is acid or neutral. 
The precipitate is decomposed, and the solution evaporated, the residue 
being extracted with chloroform and precipitated by ether. 

Some of the more interesting saponins will now be briefly dis- 
cussed. 

Saporubrin, (CigH^gOi^,)^, is a aapotoxin found in the root of the 
soapwort, Saponaria officinalis ; on hydrolysis it gives a series of pro- 
ducts, shedding one molecule of sugar at a time, until finally the 
sapogenin, Ci^HjjOg, is obtained. 

Levant sapotaxiny (CjyHj^Oio, HjO)^, is very similar to saporubrin 
and occurs in the roots of Gypsophila arrostii or G. paniculata; it 
hydrolyses to four molecules of sugar (glucose and galactose) and a 
sapogenin, CioHj^Oj. When gypsophila saponin is heated with dilute 
sulphuric acid a compound prosapogenin is obtained, which when 
heated with 2 per cent, sulphuric acid under pressure gives a mono- 
basic ketonic acid, C24H34O5, also a sapogenin (Rosenthaler and 
Strom). 

Sarsaparilla glucosides, — Sarsaparilla, the dried root of smilax 
species, contains a mixture of saponins, amongst which are : — 

Parillin, Ca^H^^Oio, which hydroFyses to two sugars and parigenin, 
C28H4«04, a phytosterolin, QjHjjOg, which gives glucose and a sitos- 
terol on hydrolysis ; sarsasaponin, C44H75O20, /HjO, crystals hydrolys- 
ing to three molecules of glucose and sarsasapogenin, C25H4i02(OH), 
and smilacin or smilasaponin (von Schulz), which is not a homogeneous 
substance, according to Power and Salway, who have most recently 
studied the sarsaparilla group. 

Quillaic acidy Ci^Hg^Oio, and Quillaia sapotoxin^ Q^^^^^^ are 
respectively non-poisonous and poisonous constituents of the glucosides 
present in the bark of Quellaja saponaria. They are amorphous. 

Agrostentma sapotoxin^ (CiyHj^OiQ)^, is a yellowish-white, highly 
poisonous amorphous glucoside found in the corncockle {Lychnis or 
Agrostemma githago) ; it is hydrolysed to four molecules of sugar and 
a sapogenin, CiqHi^02. 

Digitonin and Digitosaponin^ the saponin glucosides of the foxglove 
{Digitalis purpurea) have already been mentioned with the other 
digitalis glucosides. 



THE NATURAL GLUCOSIDES 179 

The kederins or saponins of the ivy {Hedera helix) have been investi- 
gated by van der Haar and classified provisionally as a- and )3- 
hederins, crystalline saponins insoluble in water, 7-hederin, amorphous 
glucosides insoluble in water, and ^-hederin, the saponins soluble in 
water. At present only the a-hederin has been identified as an in- 
dividual;, it is a crystalline substance, C42HjjOii, hydrolysing to 
arabinose, rhamnose, and a-hederogenin, C31H50O4, a dihydroxylic. 
lactone. 

The polysdasaponins occurring in Polyscias nodosa have been studied 
by the same worker, who has separated them by fractional precipita- 
tion into at least two individual members, o-polysciasaponin, CjjHj^Ojo, 
and J-polysciasaponin, Cj^H^jOiq. Both are white amorphous pow- 
ders, which hydrolyse to one molecule each of arabinose, glucose, and 
a sapogenin, Cj^H^^O^, a saturated lactone containing neither hydroxyl, 
methoxyl, nor ethoxyl groups. 

Other members of the group which may be cited are : — 

Caulosaponin^ ^f^^i^y and Caulophyllosaponin^ ^^^y^m^ two 
crystalline saponins found by Power and Salway in Caulophyllum 
thcUictroides \ Jegosaponin^ C75H80O25, from Styrax japonica^ in which it 
occurs as a crystalline calcium salt : it gives on hydrolysis glucose, 
glucuronic and tiglic acids and a mixture of two sapogenins, CjgHgjOg 
and C3,H5207 ; and two saponins, Cj^Hg^Oao and CjjHggOjo, from Yucca 
angustifolia and K radiosa respectively. 



X2* 



CHAPTER VII I. 

THE SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES. 

Several of the natural glucosides have been prepared synthetically, 
and by similar methods the corresponding glucosides of a variety of 
substances can be obtained The starting-point for the synthesis of 
the natural glucosides was the crude acetochloro glucose prepared by 
CoUey (1870) by the action of acetyl chloride on glucose. Michael 
(1879) coupled this with the potassium salt of phenols, preparing in 
this manner phenyl glucoside, helicin, salicin, and methylarbutin ; 
Drouin by the same method obtained the glucosides of thymol and 
a-naphthol. Fischer in 1893 obtained the alkyl glucosides from 
acetochloro glucose, but they are more easily prepared as described in 
Chapter I. 

Following the discovery of the crystalline a- and /3-acetochloro 
glucoses attempts were made to extend and improve Michael's syn- 
thetical method, but were only successful in the case of the /8-com- 
pound As already mentioned, the a-acetochloro glucose in presence 
of alkali undergoes isomeric rearrangement to the )8-acetochloro glucose, 
and accordingly )3-glucosides result instead of a-glucosides. 

Most of the glucosides synthesised have been prepared from the 
non-saccharide constituent and acetobromoglucose in presence of silver 
oxide. Fischer's most recent directions for the production of fi- 
acetobromoglucose have been given previously on p. 27. Other syn- 
thetic glucosides have been derived from triacetylbromoglucosamine 

* 

by Irvine and his co-workers, whilst a third and important group 
of syntheses is that effected, notably by Bourquelot, by means of 
enzymes. 

The experimental methods available make it possible to synthesise 
almost any desired glucoside, especially since Fischer has shown how 
it is possible to obtain synthetic glucosides of the a series. In conse- 
quence, a variety of materials become available for the more exact 
study of the selective action of enzymes and the physiological activity 
of substances in combination with sugar. 

180 



THE SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES i8i 

The influence exercised by the non-sugar group on the stability of 
the glucoside and on its optical properties can also be studied. 

The idea that glucosides are uniformly more reactive physiologi- 
cally than the parent substances has not been well maintained. 

The synthetic purine glucosides, also prepared by Fischer, may 
prove of medicinal as well as of scientific interest ; they were obtained 
by the action of compounds of the type of /9-acetobromoglucose upon 
the silver derivatives of the purines ; glucosides, galactosides, and 
rhamnosides of adenine, guanine, hypoxanthine, theobromine and 
theophylline having thus been made. By condensation with phos- 
phoric acid these compounds would be expected to produce synthetic 
nucleotides, and this was in fact attained when theophylline glucoside 
was treated with phosphorous oxychloride in pyridine solution, the 
product being a hydrated theophylHneglucosidophosphoric acid : — 

[C7HAN4 - QHA - HPO,], 2HaO 

Purine Glucose Phosphoric 

residue. residue. acid residue. 

The method of production of the purine glucosides has been 
patented by Bayer and Co. 

Another synthetic nitrogenous glucoside is that of morphine 
(Mannich). 

Interesting )8-glucosides obtained by this method are those of 
menthol and borneol ; they represent the first synthetical terpene 
glucosides, and are closely allied to the terpene glucuronic acid com- 
pounds. Similar glucosides include those of geraniol and cyclohexanol 
(Fischer and Helferich), and of citronellol, camphene, dihydrocarveol, 
fenchyl alcohol, terpineol, a>-terpene, sabinol, and santenol (Hama- 
lainen). 

The /8-glucosides of cetyl alcohol, gly collie acid, glycol (Fischer), 
menthol maltoside (E. and H. Fischer), and benzyl galactoside (Unna) 
have also been synthesised. 

Salway has synthesised the similar ceryl and myricyl glucosides, 
and those of sitosterol and cholesterol ; a contemporaneous investiga- 
tion by Power and Salway showed that a number of natural compounds 
previously assumed to be phytosterols were really glucosides (phyto- 
sterolins). Amongst these were ipuranol, from olive bark {Jponuea 
purpurea), etc., citrullol, found in colocynth and Euonymus atropurpur- 
eum^ bryanol in bryony root, and cluytianol from Taraxacum. 

Mauthner has synthesised glucovanillic acid, gluco-/-hydroxy- 
benzoic acid, and other phenolcarboxylic acid glucosides, employing 
their methyl esters in the condensation with acetobromc^lucose. He 



i82 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

has also prepared some of the gluco-hydroxy aceto- and benzo-phen- 
ones, the /-hydroxyacetophenone derivative being found naturally in 
pine needles, and known as picein (Tanret). 

The glucosides of phloroglucinol, resorcinol, and 2.4. 6-tribromo- 
phenol were obtained by shaking an ethereal solution of acetobromo- 
glucose with the alkaline solution of the phenols ; the first mentioned 
is identical with the glucoside obtained from phloridzin by Grremer 
and SeufTert and is capable of inducing diabetes (Fischer and Strauss). 

Glucosides with long side-chains have been prepared by Bargellini 
by condensation of helicin and similar glucosides with different 
hydroxyketones, for example, with /-hydroxy acetophenone, when the 
compound — 

CaHiiOj . O . CjH^ . CH : CH . CO . C.H^ . OH 

is formed. 

These glucosides are stated not to be hydrolysed by acids and also 
not to be resolved by emulsin and therefore to belong to the a series. 
Since helicin is a /8-glucoside this conclusion cannot be accepted and 
it is more probable that the long side-chain profoundly alters the pro- 
perties of the glucoside. 

Acetobromoglucose interacts with the silver salts of organic acids 
(Karrer) to form glucosides which are really acetylated glucose salts 
of the acids. The acetyl radicles could not be eliminated without at 
the same time removing the organic acid group so that the influence 
of the glucose molecule on the physiological activity of the acids em- 
ployed could not be observed. 

Irvine and Hynd have prepared o-aminohelicin and a^minosalicin 
by condensing salicylic aldehyde and saligenin with triacetylbromo- 
glucosamine in presence of morphine, morphine glucosamine appearing 
as a by-product An aminomethylglucoside, diflFerent from that obtained 
by the action of ammonia on bromomethyl glucoside (Fischer and 
Zach), was prepared by the same workers from triacetylbromogluco- 
samine and methyl alcohol. 

A new modification of the glucoside synthesis consists in warming 
acetobromoglucose with phenol in the presence of quinoline. During 
this process a rearrangement takes place and a mixture of a- and 
)9-phenol glucosides is formed, which are separated by crystallisation 
from carbon tetrachloride. The a-phenol glucoside behaves normally 
in that it is hydrolysed by maltase but not by emulsin ; acids, however, 
hydrolyse it nearly twice as quickly as the )8-isomeride (see p. 131). 

The method has been extended to menthol, and a- and fi-menthyU 
glucosides so obtained. The former is very sparingly soluble in water 



THE SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 183 

and easily isolated, as much as 50 per cent being obtained from 
/8-acetobromoglucose. It is thus the easiest synthetic cycHc-a-glucoside 
to prepare and will be of interest for physiological studies. The a- 
and /8-menthylglucosides behave normally towards maltase and emulsin 
and in this case the )8-isomeride is somewhat the more rapidly hydro- 
lysed by acids. 

This synthesis of a-glucosides is of the utmost importance, as 
hitherto it has been impossible to obtain them owing to the fact that 
a-acetochloroglucose gave rise to /3-compounds. The synthetic 
a-glucosides will allow of the further study of the influence of the 
arrangement of the groups on optical properties, resistance to hydro- 
lysis by acids, etc. 

It is of interest, further, that quinoline effects the rearrangement of 
the groups on carbon i, whereas in the case of the transformation of 
gluconic into mannonic acid the groups attached to carbon 2 are 
affected. 

Great interest attaches to the synthesis of the glucosides contain- 
ing hydrogen cyanide. As described in the previous chapter Fischer 
has synthesised the natural glucosides derived from dn and /-mandelic 
acid and also linamarin, and the method will doubtless be extended to 
give synthetic material for the study of the many interesting chemical 
and physiological problems presented by these glucosides. 

Synthetic Sulphur Glucosides. 

Ethylthiomercaptal — 

CH,(OH) . (CH . OH), . CH<g^J, 

when treated with one molecule of mercuric chloride loses one mer- 
captan residue only and ethylthio-glucoside is formed : — 



CH,(OH) . CH. (CH . OH), . CH(OH) . CH . SEt 

This crystallises in silky needles, m.p. 153^ [a]^ + 120*8°. It 
tastes bitter, does not reduce Fehling's solution, and is hydrolysed by 
acids but stable towards alkalis. No indication is given whether a 
second isomeride is formed at the same time. When excess of 
mercuric chloride is employed the mercaptal is reconverted into 
glucose. 

By the interaction of /3-acetobromoglucose and the potassium salt 
of thiophenol, )8-thiophenol glucoside, C^HgS . QHnOg, has been ob- 
tained. This is not hydrolysed by emulsin and is very resistant 
towards hydrolysis by dilute acids. Analogous compounds have been 



1 84 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

made by Schneider and co-workers from the silver salts of thioure- 
thanes, the products having the general formula — 

R.N: C(OCjHb) . S . Cfl^fi^ 

The products are amorphous and the acetyl free glucosides very 
easily undergo further hydrolysis into urethanes, R . NH . COgEt, 
and thioglucose which is readily isolated in the form of its silver salt 
Decomposition also takes place in another way to form thiourethanes 
and glucose. This latter decomposition is met with in the case of the 
natural mustard oil glucosides, and phenylthiourethaneglucoside occupies 
an intermediate position between these and the aliphatic thiourethanes. 

Myrosin is without influence on the synthetic thioglucosides. 

Enzyme Sjrnthesis of Glucosides. 

The subject of the synthesis of glucosides by means of enzymes 
belongs properly to the monograph on enzyme action, and therefore 
only certain limited aspects of the question will be considered here. 

Whereas in dilute aqueous solution the hydrolysis of say /8-methyl- 
glucoside by emulsin is complete, hydrolysis is retarded by the presence 
of increasing amounts of methyl alcohol, until in presence of a certain 
proportion of alcohol the enzyme is able to synthesise glucoside from 
glucose and the alcohol. Definite proof that in this simple case the 
same glucoside is synthesised as is hydrolysed is afforded by its isola- 
tion in a pure state. Hence the reaction — 

glucoside + water ^ glucose + methylalcohol 
is reversible and Bourquelot, to whom the development of this subject 
is primarily due, has proved that the ordinary physico-chemical laws 
governing such reversible reactions apply here also. For example, 
the rates of hydrolysis and synthesis are the same and the same equi- 
librium is reached from both directions. The temperature limits of 
these reactions and the proportions of the various alcohols which can 
be used without destroying the activity of the enzyme have been de- 
termined Yeast extract, i.e. maltase, effects the synthesis of o-methyl- 
glucoside or galactoside. Emulsin and also Kephir lactase are able to 
produce )3-methylgalactoside. 

The reaction has also been extended successfully to other alcohols, 
the enzyme being allowed to act on sugars dissolved in alcohols con- 
taining varying amounts of water or acetone. In this way crystalline 
glycol, glycerol, geranyl and cinnamyl-/3-glucosides and alkyl and 
benzyl galactosides have been obtained by means of emulsin : some 
of these had not been induced to crystallise when made by other 



THE SYNTHETIC GLUCOSIDES 185 

methods. These synthetic glucosides are hydrolysed by emulsin. 
Latterly many other alcohol glucosides have been prepared in like 
manner, for example, those of the terpene alcohols : these, it will be 
remembered, are transformed into glucuronates in the animal system. 

The work more particularly of Armstrong has shown that enzymes 
are very active hydrolytically even when quite insoluble in the medium 
employed Thus finely ground leaf material, prepared by protracted 
autolysis and frequent washing with water, and therefore divested of 
all soluble matter, was very active towards salicin and other glucosides. 

Similarly emulsin is capable of synthesising and hydrolysing 
^S-glucosides in a neutral liquid such as acetone in which it is com- 
pletely insoluble. 

The view that synthesis and hydrolysis are effected by different 
enzymes, though not overlooked by earlier workers, has been brought 
into prominence by the experimental work of Rosenthaler. Emulsin 
in presence of hydrogen cyanide and benzaldehyde brings about the 
formation of optically active benzaldehyde cyanohydrin, a substance 
which it also hydrolyses. Saturation of the enzyme solution with 
magnesium sulphate or half-saturation with ammonium sulphate 
produces a precipitate which is soluble in water. The filtrate has no 
synthetic activity, but is able to effect hydrolysis as before ; the pre- 
cipitate possesses synthetic activity and some hydrolytic activity. It 
is considered by Rosenthaler that emulsin consists of two distinct 
enzymes, one promoting synthesis, the other causing hydrolysis of 
benzaldehyde cyanohydrin. 

It must not be overlooked that enzymes as we know them are 
mixtures of several, often closely related, enzymes. Subtle differ- 
ences exist between different preparations, as is shown by Krieble's 
observation that an emulsin which produced /-mandelonitrile from 
amygdalin, two years later produced the rf variety. It is suggested 
that two synthetic enzymes are present in emulsin and acting on 
benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid to produce the d- and /-nitrile 
respectively, the latter enzyme being less stable. 

Krieble also states that the emulsin from sweet almonds produces 
the /-nitrile and that from bitter almonds the rf-nitrile. An enzyme 
converting benzaldehyde and hydrogen cyanide into ^-mandelonitrile 
is present in the leaves and bark of Prunus serotina^ which it will be 
remembered contains prunasin, the glucoside of this nitrile. From 
the leaves of the elder, which contains sambunigrin, no optically 
active compound was obtained. Emulsin, as just indicated, forms the 
racemic nitrile and also an excess of one of the optically active forms. 



i86 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

An interesting synthesis of salicin and other glucosides is that 
studied by Ciamician and Ravenna. When plants — well-grown maize 
plants were chosen — are inoculated with glucosides or their aromatic 
products of hydrolysis a reversible change takes place resulting in a 
chemical equilibrium. Salicin is in part hydrolysed, saligenin in part 
transformed into salicin, the final ratio in the full-grown plant of com- 
bined to free saligenin being i : 2. On taking a large number of 
plants it was possible to isolate the salicin synthesised in this manner. 
Confirmation of this work appears desirable. 

It is suggested by Ciamician and Ravenna that the absorption by 
both adult and germinating plants of certain aromatic compounds 
leads to the formation of the corresponding glucosides in the plants. 
Thus maize and beans when treated with weak saligenin solutions 
form salicin. 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE FUNCTION OF CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS. 

Carbohydrates are of fundamental importance in plants : quite 
apart from the process of assimilation in which starch is formed, the 
carbohydrates and more particularly their glucosidic derivatives are 
now recognised as playing an all-essential part in other physiological 
processes. Sufficient space is not available in the present monograph 
for more than a brief indication of some of the more developed branches 
of this field of inquiry in which work is now being done in many 
directions. 

The last few years have witnessed great progfress in the novel in- 
terpretation of the function of glucosides as a means of keeping dor- 
mant substances of great importance in the metabolism of the plant 
until the precise moment at which they are required. The so-called 
respiratory and anthocyanin pigments are derived from glucosides, 
likewise many perfumes. Similarly a large class of substances, which 
are capable of acting as hormones and giving a very delicate but 
directed stimulus to plant metabolism, are constituents of glucosides. 

Since any particular glucoside is only hydrolysed by its specific 
enzyme, the supply of these materials for whatever purpose they are 
required is regulated by a very sensitive control. The glucoside- 
enzyme systems are to be regarded as constituting a controlling 
mechanism for plant metabolism. 

Significance of Glucosides. 

Opinions are divided as to the real significance of glucosides in 
plant economy. Probably they are of use to the plant in a variety of 
ways, and no one explanation will cover the functions of all the mem- 
bers of the group. 

In most, if not in all cases, the glucosides are accompanied by 
appropriate enzymes which are able to hydrolyse the glucoside. 
Enzyme and glucoside do not exist in the same cells as normally there 
is no decomposition. They are brought together should the cellular 

structure be damaged and in some instances during germination. 

X87 



1 88 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

In the cherry-laurel, according to Guig^ard, " emulsin " exists in 
the endodermis ; in the almond, it is found in the axis of the embyro 
in the pericycle which lies immediately under the endodermis, and in 
the cotyledons in both the endodermis and the pericycle. Bourque- 
lot, who prepared both glucoside (gaultherin) and enzyme from the 
stems of Monotropa^ showed they are not present in the same cells. 

The earliest investigations of this nature are due to Marshall Ward. 
The fruits of the Persian berry {Rhatnnus infectorius) contain a gluco- 
side known as xanthorhamnin, which, when hydrolysed, yields 
rhamnetin and the two sugars rhamnose and galactose. Marshall 
Ward and Dunlop showed that the seeds contain an enzyme, termed 
rhamnase, capable of hydrolysing the glucoside ; this is confined to 
the raphe of the seed, which is composed of parenchymatous cells 
containing a brilliant oily-looking colourless substance. When the 
pulp or an extract of the pericarp of the fruit is digested with an ex- 
tract of the seeds a copious yellow precipitate of rhamnetin is formed. 

In very many cases glucosides function as reserve materials, and 
when required they are hydrolysed by the accompanying enzyme and 
pass into circulation. 

It would appear that the glucoside stored in the seed is often of a 
more complex character than that present in the leaves of the same 
plant, containing more than one sugar or two molecules of the same 
sugar in its molecule, whereas the leaf glucoside is a simple one. A 
special enzyme is required to hydrolyse it which is present only in the 
seed and absent from the leaf. 

Thus the seeds of Prunus species contain amygdalin tc^ether with 
the enzymes, amygdalase and prunase, required for its complete hydro- 
lysis ; the leaves contain mandelonitrile glucosides and prunase but no 
amygdalase. Complex glucosides are present in the seeds of other 
plants, as indicated in the previous chapter. 

Anaesthetics such as chloroform or ether are well known to have 
a remarkable action on plants in stimulating growth. Of the deepest 
significance in this connection is Guignard's observation that exposure 
of living plants to the action of anaesthetics brings about interaction 
between the glucoside and the corresponding ferment Mustard oil is 
formed from the leaves of certain cruciferae, hydrogen cyanide from 
laurel leaves and other cyanophoric plants, when submitted to the 
action of chloroform. The same phenomenon is brought about by 
exposure to extreme cold. 

The investigations of H. E. and E. F. Armstrong have shown 
that a variety of substances, having the property in common that they 



CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS 189 

have but little affinity for water, are able to penetrate the walls of 
certain plant cells. As a consequence alterations in equilibrium are 
set up within the cell, and changes are induced which involve altera- 
tion of the concentration and the liberation of hydrolytic enzymes. 

The general name hormone has been applied to substances which 
are active in this manner : it has been shown that the group includes 
not only carbon dioxide but materials such as hydrogen cyanide, hydro- 
carbons, alcohols, phenols, ethers, esters, aldehydes, mustard oils, etc., 
all of which are normal products of hydrolysis of the plant glucosides. 
The hormones include most of the substances which Overton, Lob, 
Czapek and others have classed as solvents of lipoids. 

The result of the liberation of enzymes within the cell will be 
hydrolysis of complex carbohydrates, glucosides, proteins, etc., and the 
materials so formed will be active in still further stimulating change. 
If unchecked, change will proceed until autolysis is complete : in 
practice the intervention of oxydases is made manifest by the appear- 
ance of brown and other pigments. 

It will be seen that the plant cell carries its own hormones or 
activators in an inactive form bound up as glucosides. If for any 
reason during the twenty-four hour period a little of the glucoside be- 
comes hydrolysed, the hormone will be liberated and a very delicate 
stimulus given to the cell to begin down-grade changes such as normally 
take place at night 



Glucosides and Animal Nutrition. 

The recc^^ition of the potent effect of the constituents of glucosides 
in acting as stimuli and starters of active metabolism may be of im- 
portance in studying the nutrition of animals. It is well known that 
the herbage of one pasture may have the power of fattening an animal 
whereas similar grass on an adjoining field, though equally readily con- 
sumed by the animal, fails to bring it into condition for the market. 

This is especially the case in Romney Marsh, where one field will 
fatten six or eight or more sheep to the acre whereas an adjoining 
field will do little more than keep the sheep in a growing condition. 
Hall and Russell, who investigated this difference in 191 2, found that 
the floral type in the two fields was constant but that a leafy habit of 
growth obtained in the fattening field and a stemmy habit in the poorer 
fields. The ordinary methods of chemical analysis failed to reveal any 
difference either in the herbage or the soils. Since this date much 
evidence has accumulated in favour of the importance of quality as 



190 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

well as of quantity in animal feeding and the subject is one of the 
greatest importance to agriculturalists. 

Subtle differences between the grasses of these two fields have 
hitherto defied detection, but it is not impossible that the presence or 
absence of certain glucosides or similar constituents may have some 
bearing on the difference. 

H. E. and £. F. Armstrong have made observations on the be- 
haviour of Lotus comiculatus collected during several years both over 
Great Britain and a greater part of Europe. Whereas L. comiculatus 
usually contains a cyanogenetic glucoside and the corresponding 
enzyme, it is established that a botanically indistinguishable form 
exists from which the glucoside is absent. 

Lotus uliginosusy which some botanists r^[ard as a distinct species, 
is free both from the glucoside and the correlated enzyme : it grows, 
as a rule, in damp situations and is distinguished by its rank growth 
and coarse tubular stem. The normal form of Z. comiculatus con- 
tains both glucoside and enzyme ; a widely distributed second form 
is rich in enzyme but lacks the glucoside, and a third rare form lacks 
both glucoside and enzyme. 

Lotus ranks rather as a weed than as a fodder plant and is a 
minor constituent of most pastures but it is of great interest that 
white clover, Trifolium repens^ shows similar differences. Two varieties 
are recognised by seedsmen — the cultivated and wild — of which the 
latter is often said to be the more valuable. The wild variety con- 
tains a cyanogenetic glucoside and the correlated enzyme, whereas the 
cultivated lacks glucoside and has v^ry little enzyme. 

A further example is afforded by linseed cake, which is considered 
superior to all other cakes as a food in bringing cattle into condition. 
Owing to the presence of the cyanogenetic glucoside linamarin in the 
unripe seed a small quantity of hydrogen cyanide is usually to be 
found in linseed cake. 

Glucosides are likely to play a very important part as **test 
materials " in the solution of this and many problems of plant chemistry. 
Their non-sugar constituents can frequently be detected with great 
accuracy and delicacy and even localised in situ in the tissue and 
they also can be estimated quantitatively. In this respect the glu* 
cosides which yield hydrogen cyanide on hydrolysis are of particular 
value, more especially as many hundreds of qualitative tests can be 
made in relatively short time. 

In testing for cyanide it is most convenient to make use of stout 
glass tubes, about 3^ inches long and ^ inch wide, provided with good 



CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS 191 

corks. The leaf material having been pushed into the tube, two or 
three drops of chloroform or toluene are added and a slip of moist 
picrate paper is inserted ; the tube is then corked up. It is conveni- 
ently incubated in a waistcoat breast-pocket or in the trousers pocket. 
When cyanide is present the paper reddens perceptibly within half an 
hour, as a rule ; to make certain, the test should be prolonged over 
24 hours. To prepare the picrate paper, slips of filter paper about 
f inch wide are dipped into a solution of 5 grm. picric acid and 50 
grms. sodium carbonate in i litre of water ; after draining the paper, 
it is hung from a pin to dry until it is only just perceptibly moist ; it 
is then cut up into |-inch lengths and stored in a closed tube. It is 
well to keep a piece of the paper in each of the stock of tubes carried, 
so as to make sure that hydrogen cyanide has not been stored up in 
the cork. 

Glucosides may also serve as a method of putting harmful waste 
products out of action : thus phenolic residues are rendered soluble 
by combination with glucose and are transferred osmotically to other 
portions of the plant 

Bunge has pointed out that very many of the non-sugar constituents 
of glucosides are antiseptic and therefore bactericidal in character. In 
the seeds of plants the reserve stores of food-stuffs form an excellent 
medium for the development of micro-organisms which would rapidly 
spread but for the protective action of the glucoside. In the almond, 
directly the seed is penetrated, the amygdalin is hydrolysed and all 
bacterial action prevented. The universal presence of glucosides in the 
bark of plants may be similarly explained : they ensure an antiseptic 
treatment of all wounds in the int^ument. 

Easily decomposable substances, such as many acids or aldehydes, 
are protected against oxidation by being transformed into glucosides, 
just as, in the animal organism, similar substances are converted into 
paired glucuronic acid derivatives. 

Glucosides possessing a bitter taste or having poisonous properties 
serve to protect such important organisms as the seeds or fruits of 
plants against animals. In some instances the plant is only poisonous 
at certain stages of its growth. Thus an Egyptian plant, Lotus A rabicus^ 
is poisonous in the early stages, but becomes a useful forage when 
allowed to mature: it contains the glucoside lotusin, which yields 
hydrogen cyanide when hydrolysed. 

Glucosides containing acetonecyanohydrin are r^arded by Treub 
as primary material for protein synthesis. Guignard, working with 



192 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSlDfiS 

phaseolunatin, has obtained no evidence that hydrocyanic acid is liber- 
ated during germination of Fhaseolus beans. 

The amount of glucoside present varies considerably in different 
species of the same plant, and varies also according to the time of year. 
It also differs in the male and female plant of the same species. Un- 
fortunately, the material at present available for the discussion of this 
question is very scanty. Jowett and Potter, who investigated the bark 
from thirty-three samples of willow and poplar, found considerable 
variation in the occurrence of salicin. In April the bark from the female 
tree contained about three times as much salicin as that from the male ; 
three months later the conditions were reversed. It is suggested that 
salicin acts as a reserve material ; it is stored away in the winter for 
use in the coming spring, when it is hydrolysed by the accompanying 
ferment, both saligenin and glucose being used by the plant The plant 
is enabled to store in the form of- a glucoside a material which it 
can neither tolerate in quantity nor produce at short notice when 
required. Owing to their special functions the reserve is drawn upon 
to an unequal extent by the male and female trees. Taxicatin, the 
glucoside of the leaves and young shoots of the yew {Taxus baccatd), 
occurs in greatest quantity in the plant during the autumn and winter ; 
apparently it is utilised in the spring when the young shoots begin 
to assimilate. The cyanophoric glucoside in the leaves of Sambucus 
nigray according to Guignard, seems to fulfil a different function, as its 
amount diminishes only slightly with age, and at the end of the 
vegetative period the glucoside does not migrate to the stems but 
remains in the leaves till they drop off. 

The variations in the composition of the root of the gentian 
during a year's growth have been studied by Bridel. The gentian 
root contains a glucoside, gentiopicrin, and the carbohydrates glucose, 
fructose, sucrose, and gentianose (p. 1 12), the last of which is hydrolysed 
by invertase. The amount of carbohydrate hydrolysed by invertase 
increases from a minimum (i '2 per cent.) early in June to a maximum 
(7*8 per cent.) in August and then remains constant. The amount of 
glucoside (2 per cent) does not vary much ; it increases a little in June 
and July. In May and June gentianose is largely replaced by gentio- 
biose. The sucrose increases from i per cent in July to 4 per cent 
or more in November : it is absent when growth commences in the 
spring. 

According to Cavazza the amount of tannin in the leaves of forest 
trees reaches a maximum in September, whereas the amount in the 



CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS 193 

twigs shows maxima in July and December and varies inversely as that 
in the leaves. 

A comparison of the amount of glucoside and enzyme in linseeds 
grown under conditions of drought and high temperature with those 
grown under damp and low temperature conditions has been made by 
Collins and Blair. Under the latter conditions the total amount of 
hydrogen cyanide produced falls 20 per cent, but the activity of the 
enzyme increases by a like amount. This is the general effect of 
growing linseed in this country, whereas seeds of oriental origin are 
rich in total hydrogen cyanide. 

Respiration in Plants. 

Carbohydrates and glucosides are concerned likewise in the pheno- 
mena of respiration in plants, during which oxygen is absorbed, carbon 
dioxide given off and the energy necessary for carrying out the life- 
work of the plant liberated. The process of oxidative decomposition 
of food substances is separable into two stages : in the first, alcohol 
and carbon dioxide are produced, as may be demonstrated by allow- 
ing pea seeds to germinate without the access of air. The anaerobic 
process of carbohydrate decomposition, if not identical with, is very 
similar to the alcoholic fermentation of glucose by yeast 

The second stage in respiration comprises the aerobic oxidation of 
the alcohol produced in the first stage : this is effected, according to 
the present view, by the agency of the respiratory pigments which are 
themselves present originally as glucosides and liberated by hydrolysis. 
No doubt, salts of iron, manganese, etc., play some part in the oxida- 
tive changes, but their precise function is not yet understood. 

Important light has been thrown on the function of the aromatic 
substances in plants and on the existence of enzymes, which act only 
on them, by the researches of Palladin. Following the line of thought 
originated by Reinke, who discovered substances in the plant which, 
under the influence of enzyme (oxydase) and air, gave coloured oxida- 
tion products, Palladin made a systematic search for these respiratory 
chromogens. He supposes them to be cyclic compounds bound to 
carbohydrates in the form of insoluble glucosides. Glucoside-splitting 
enzymes separate the cyclic compounds, which by the aid of the oxy- 
dases are then enabled to take up oxygen from the air to give it up 
again later under the influence of reducing substances. During life the 
chromogens normally remain colourless so long as there is a balance 
in the activities of the three types of enzyme concerned, but, on treat- 
ment with chloroform or other hormones, or after death due to cold 

13 



194 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

or injury, the inter-relationship of the enzymes is disturbed and the 
coloured oxidised chromogen becomes evident 

Prochrom(^en (i.e. glucoside) + water -> chromogen + sugar. 
Chromogen + oxygen -► respiration pigments. 

The soluble pigments of flowering plants — red, purple, and blue — 
which are termed collectively anthocyanin by botanists, are r^arded 
similarly as oxidation products of chromogens of an aromatic nature, 
probably in many cases members of the flavone and xanthone g^ups 
(Wheldale) : there is little doubt that these colourless chromogens are 
present in the living tissues as glucosides. 

In the flavone glucosides one or more hydroxyl groups are replaced 
by sugar : hence, since the auxochrome g^up is replaced, the crude 
plant extracts are only pale yellow. On hydrolysis the sugar is split 
ofl* and the colour deepens and a deposit of flavone is formed as the 
glucoside is more soluble than the pigment. Wheldale suggests that 
the reactions involved are in general terms as follows : — 

glucoside + water ^ chromogen (flavone) + sugar, 
chromogen + oxygen -► anthocyanin. 

The evidence in favour of this hypothesis is summarised by Whel- 
dale in her monograph on the anthocyan pigments. 

Everest, however, obtains anthocyanin by cautious reduction in 
the cold of the pigments in a number of pale yellow or white flowers. 
Under these conditions no anthocyanidin is produced and no oxidation 
after reduction is necessary for the production of the anthocyanin pig- 
ment 

Combes has found that red leaves of which the coloration is 
attributed to anthocyanin contain proportionately greater amounts of 
glucosides and sugars than green leaves of the same plant ; Kraus has 
proved the same to hold for the aromatic constituents. The evidence 
as to the formation of anthocyanin has been summarised by Whel- 
dale ; it is r^arded as due to the accumulation of glucosides. Sugar 
feeding increases both the amount of glucoside and of free aromatic 
chromogen. 

The autumnal coloration of leaves is attributed (Overton, Tswett) 
to the same series of changes brought about by the slowing up of the 
metabolic processes of the plant by frost and other influences resulting 
jn the disturbance of the enzyme balance. Tannins, for example, 
when set free from their glucoside form by the hydrolytic enzymes, 
yield pigments on oxidation (cf. p. 68). 

The production of pigment may involve something more than the 
interaction of the aromatic chromogen with the oxydase. Chodat has 



- ; 



CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS 195 

accumulated evidence showing that protein decomposition products, i.e. 
the amino acid^ or polypeptides, also take part in the reaction, and the 
precise shade of colour produced depends on the nature and quantity 
of these as well as on that of the aromatic compound derived from the 
glucoside. 

The formation of the anthocyan pigments is of great interest from 
the point of view of genetics. The three groups of factors concerned 
are: — 

(i) Actual formation of the pigment 

(2) Amount of pigment formed. 

(3) Modification of the colour of the pigment 

For the formation of the pigment two factors, the chromogen and 
the oxidising agent or enzyme, are required. The work of Keeble 
and Armstrong has correlated the distribution of the oxydases with 
that of anthocyan. The amount of pigment formed may be controlled 
by an enzyme liberating more or less from the corresponding glucoside. 
The variation in the colour from red to blue or purple is regarded by 
Willstatter and others as determined by the nature of the accompany- 
ing substances in the cell sap, but this explanation is not in harmony 
with the biological facts. It is more likely that other substances are 
present, as for example, in centaurea, in which the purple, red, and 
blue types contain cyanin and the pink variety pelargonin. 

Carbohydrates and the Enzyme Balance. 

In dealing with carbohydrate metabolism in plants there is abund- 
ant evidence that a very delicate balance exists between the various 

« 

enzymatic processes which take place simultaneously, leading, it may' 

be, to the building up of starch or to the transference of a glucoside 

into anthocyanin. 

It is obvious that the introduction from without of agencies which 

will affect this balance will have a more or less profound influence in 

altering the changes which take place. 

One of the most delicate means of regulating the balance is that 
afforded by change of temperature. A rise or fall in the temperature 
does not influence all enzyme reactions alike — for example, some are 
retarded by cold much more than others. 

A typical case is that afforded by the potato tuber during storage 
(MUller-Thurgan). Three changes take place simultaneously : starch 
is being transformed into sugar, sugar into starch, and also by the 
process of respiration into carbon dioxide. A decrease in the tem- 
perature hinders all three reactions but it has least effect on the 

13 * 



196 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

formation of sugar from starch. Accordingly, when the potato is 
stored at o° sugar is formed till the amount increases to 3 per cent 
At - 1° all enzyme action ceases. At + 3** there is still formation of 
sugar but the enzymes acting to destroy it tend to keep the amount 
down to o*S per cent. At + 6° the rate of formation of sugar from 
starch and that of the reverse change are equal ; above this tempera- 
ture the formation of starch predommates. In consequence no sugar 
is stored and any sugar previously present is destroyed. 

The effect of a further rise in temperature on the enzyme balance 
has not been worked out in such detail but there is no doubt that the 
influence is equally profound. This conception of the regulation of 
metabolism affords an explanation of the sudden development of plant 
growth due to a warm day in spring when the rise in temperature 
favours synthetic changes ; or of the injury caused to hot-house plants 
by exposing them to a temperature colder than that to which they 
are accustomed, whereby an abnormal preponderance of hydrolytic 
activity is favoured which, if unduly prolonged, may lead to the dis- 
integration of the protoplasmic structure and death of the plant. 

In the case of plants which are killed by frost it is supposed that 
as a result of the removal of the water as ice the concentration of the 
cell fluid becomes such that the soluble proteins are precipitated from 
solution. This salting out of the proteins is prevented by the presence 
of non-electrolytes such as sugar : Lidforss, to whom this explanation 
is due, has shown that the leaves of winter plants are free from starch 
but contain much sugar. The warm days of early spring bring about 
the regeneration of starch and partial disappearance of sugar ; in con- 
sequence the cell is but ill protected against the effects of a subsequent 
frost 

The Ripening: of Fleshy Fruits. 

In the first stages after fertilisation the changes in the young fruit 
resemble those in the leaf: a variety of acids, tannins, and sometimes 
starch then accumulate, and ultimately, as the fruit becomes ripe, 
carbohydrates and fruit ethers or aromatic substances are formed and 
the bitter, acid, or astringent taste disappears together with the starch. 

The interrelationship of the materials concerned and the enzymes 
which effect their transformation possesses numerous points of interest 
— the scope of the present work limits discussion here mainly to the 
carbohydrates. A distinction has been drawn between three types of 
fruit (Gerber) which in the preliminary stages are rich either in acids, 



CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS 197 

tannins, or starch : the subsequent changes differ somewhat in each 
type. 

As a typical starchy fruit the banana may be considered. During 
ripening there is an evolution of carbon dioxide and a considerable 
conversion of starch into sugar. Thus Prinsen-Geerligs found, during 
six days the amount of starch decreased from 31 to 9 per cent, the 
cane sugar rose from o*8 to 13*6 per cent., and the invert sugar from 
0*25 to 8*3 per cent The presence of oxygen is necessary for ripen- 
ing ; in an atmosphere of nitrogen the starch remains intact. 

A careful study of the enzymes present in extracts of bananas 
gathered at different stages of ripening has been made by Tallarico. 
The catalytic enzyme which decomposes hydrogen peroxide is very 
active in the, green fruit but weakens as it ripens. Diastase is only 
active in the green fruit or at the beginning of ripening, it then dis- 
appears. Invertase is absent during the green stage, the amount very 
rapidly increases during ripening and then gradually disappears. A 
proteoclastic enzyme is evident during ripening and then likewise 
vanishes. Maltase is not present at any period. 

During ripening the skin of the banana changes from green to 
yellow, deep brown, and finally black ; the fruit is then fully ripe. This 
change is due to an oxydase acting on some aromatic substance 
liberated from a glucoside. The black colour is quickly produced 
when a yellow banana skin is disintegrated by mincing or when the 
entire skin is exposed to the vapour of some hormone. Under natural 
conditions the stimulus which leads to blackening is given from within 
the fruit by the liberation of the characteristic ester of the banana, 
which acts as a powerful hormone. In the case of most fruits, it 
would seem that the final appearance which is associated with ripeness 
is conditioned by stimulus from within rather than by any environ- 
mental influence. 

Vinson has found that invertase is present in the date throughout 
the green stages but remains in an insoluble endo form : during ripen- 
ing it becomes readily soluble, changing to the ecto form. The change 
coincides very closely in point of time with the conversion of the 
soluble tannins into an insoluble form. The unripe date contains 
much cane sugar ; in the ripe fruit this is converted into invert sugar. 
Influences, such as have been considered under the name of hormones, 
which destroy the structure of the protoplasm, liberate the endo- 
enzyme, provided always that the dates have reached a certain stage 
of development 

The acids in fruits are chiefly malic, tartaric, and citric. Gerber 



198 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

considers that during ripening they are in part converted into sugar 
and in part oxidised to carbon dioxide. Temperature has an im- 
portant influence on the rate of oxidation. Experiments with fungi 
{Sterigmatocytis) have shown that whereas at 1 2° glucose is attacked 
preferentially to tartaric acid, at 20° the rate of attack is equal, at 37° 
the tartaric acid is least resistant. Malic acid is oxidised more easily^ 
than glucose at all temperatures : fruits containing it, such as apples, 
can ripen, therefore, in colder climates than those containing tartaric 
acid, like grapes. Citric acid is still more resistant to attack, and 
fruits such as oranges and lemons require warmer climates in order to 
ripen. 

In apples, according to Kelhofer, the percentage of sugar is highest 
in the flesh, the acidity increases towards the centre, the tannin from 
the centre outwards. The distribution is the same in ripe as in unripe 
apples, but during ripening the amount of acid greatly diminishes. 

In oranges (Scurti and Plato) citric and malic acids are present ; 
during ripening the quantity at first increases but then becomes much 
smaller. Sucrose diminishes in amount, glucose and fructose increase. 

During the ripening of sloes (Otto and Kooper) the amount of 
fructose increases whilst that of glucose decreases together with the 
acids and tannin : the loss is in part due to respiration. The same 
authors have studied the changes in medlars and quinces during 
ripening. 

In the ripening of cereals the object is to store starch instead of 
converting it into sugar. The enzymes act synthetically and there is 
a gradual accumulation of carbohydrate within the endosperm tissue. 
The slowly matured, plump grains contain a higher proportion of 
starch than the small and rapidly ripened grains. 

In the sweet potato, Ipomcea batatas^ the conversion of starch into 
sugar is apparently connected with the cessation of the activity of the 
leaves, as until the stem is cut off* or the tubers harvested very little 
sugar is formed. The transformation results first in the production of 
reducing sugars from starch which are then converted into sucrose. 
It is of interest that the change, although slower at low temperatures, 
ultimately goes much further, so that much more sugar is formed. 



CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSlDES IN PLAnTS 199 

Products Derived from Carbohydrates in Plants. 

Carbohydrates are the first products of synthesis in the plant, and 
the other products of plant activity must be expected in large measure 
to arise from them. For example, unripe seeds, nuts or fruits contain 
carbohydrates, which as ripening proceeds are transformed into fats 
and oils. This change is of the greatest interest, particularly in r^ard 
to the variety of fats found in nature and their great commercial im- 
portance. Two changes are involved : the alcoholic hydroxyl groups 
must be reduced and the short carbon chains of the carbohydrates 
must be condensed to form the long chains characteristic of the higher 
fatty acids. It will be remembered that these consist always of an 
even number of carbon atoms and are unbranched, suggesting that a 
decomposition • product of glucose containing two carbon atoms is 
formed and takes part in the condensation, the reaction being repeated 
so that each successive acid has two more carbon atoms. NePs work 
has shown that the glucose molecule may be disjointed at either the 
a- or /3' or 7-carbon atoms *. in the latter case lactic acid is formed, as 
happens when glucose is acted on by bacteria or by weak alkalis. 
The first product of fission is perhaps glycerose — 

CH,(OH) . CH(OH) . CHO 

which by rearrangement becomes lactic acid — 

CH, . CH(OH) . CO,H 

Both glucose and lactic acid can undei^o butyric fermentation in 
which butyric acid, CH, . CHj . CHj . COjH, is formed. 

Nencki suggested that lactic acid breaks down into acetaldehyde, 
hydrogen and carbon dioxide and that the aldehyde undergoes re- 
peated aldol condensation followed by the same rearrangement as in 
the case of the formation of lactic acid from glycerose : — 

CH, . CHO + CH, . CHO -► CH, . CH(OH) . CH, . CHO -^ CH, . CH, . CH, . C0,H 

The reaction involved in the reduction of the )8-alcoholic hydroxyl 
accompanying the oxidation of the aldehyde group is apparently a 
general one in carbohydrate metabolism. The further study of this 
fascinating subject belongs to the domain of fat chemistry, for which 
the monc^raph of Dr. Leathes should be consulted. 

The aldehydes present in green leaves have been investigated by 
Curtius and Franzen who worked up 600 kilograms of the leaves of 
the hornbeam for this purpose. They identified formaldehyde, acet- 
aldehyde, i;-butylaldehyde, valeraldehyde, a)9-hexylene aldehyde and 
higher homologues. The hexylene aldehyde — 

CH, . CH, . CH, . CH : CH . CHO 



200 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

formed the greater part, and considerable quantities of acetaldehyde 
and butyric aldehyde were present, the other aldehydes being present 
only in small amounts. 

It is suggested that this aldehyde is produced from glucose by the 
repetition of the following series of changes : — 

CH2.(CH.OH)4.CHO glucose, 



OH 

CHj : C(OH) . (CH . OH), . CHO . . ' . . . water eliminated, 

CH, . CO . (CH . OH)j . CH6 water added and 

eliminated, 

CH, . CH(OH) . (CH . OH), . CHO reduced, 

involving, in the first place, the formation of a methylpentose, and sub- 
sequently, on repetition of the reduction, of an ethyl tetrose which 
would have the same composition as digitoxose. Kiliani assigns a 
different structure to this sugar, but it requires reinvestigation from 
this point of view. 

The constitution of the enzymes which act on the carbohydrates 
has long been a subject of speculation. According to H. £. and 
E. F. Armstrong the enzyme has the double function of retaining the 
hydrolyte in circuit while hydrolysis is being effected by an electrolyte 
formed from an active radicle present in the enzyme. The acceptor 
portion of the enzyme must be compatible with a grouping common 
to all the members of the series of glucosides which it hydrolyses, and 
it has been postulated as an amino glucose composing part of a large 
colloid molecule. Carbohydrates have been shown to be a component 
even of highly purified enzymes though it is not yet possible to carry 
the purification very far without destroying the activity of the enzyme. 

Willstatter finds that the purest and most active peroxydase he 
could prepare from a very large quantity of horse radish consisted 
chiefly of a nitrogenous glucoside containing about 30 per cent of a 
pentose and the equivalent proportion of a hexose with about 3 atoms 
of nitrogen. Peroxydase is not, of course, generally regarded as an 
enzyme in the same sense as the sugar-splitting compounds, and the 
method of purification would have inevitably destroyed the sucrolastic 
enzymes. It is none the less of considerable interest that a very active 
catalytic agent should be composed so largely of sugar molecules. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Rtfsrenet to tht liUrature subsequent to 1900 is much facilUated by the Annual Volumes 0/ the Jnter- 
mUional Catalogue of Scientific Literature. Papers referring to Carbohydrates are indexed in Volume D 
(Chemistry) under z8oo et seq. in the original language, namely^ z8oo General^ z8zo Monosaccharides^ idao 
Disacchartdes^ Z830 Trisaccharides, Z840 Polysaccharides^ Z850 Glucosides. Papers referring to the Car- 
bohydrate Eneymee are indexed under 8000 80Z4, Fermentation under Boao, and Vegetable Metabolism under 
8030. The same system of numbering is used in the forthcoming publication of the Royal Society's Catalog 
of Scientific Papers up to igoo. A further means of reference is provided by the A nnual Reports of the Chemtcal 
Society. 

TEXTBOOKS. 

£. F. Armstrong. Dictionary of applied chemistry, 1912. [Carbohydrates, Glucosides.] 

F. CzAPBK. Biochemie der Pflanzen, Jena, 1905. 

F. CzAPBK. Chemical phenomena in lije. London, zgii. 

H. EuLER. Pflansenchemie. Braunschweig, 1908. 

H. EuLER UND LuNDBBRO. Glucosids. Biochemisches Handlexikon, 1911. 

E. FtscHER. Untersuchungen uber Kohlenhydrate und Fermente. 1884-1908. Berlin, 
Z909. [A reprint of all the original papers.] 

J. Reynolds Green. The soluble ferments arid fermentation, 

V. Henri. Lois ghterales des diastctses, Paris, 1903. 

O. Jacob-bn. Die Glycoside, 

H. Landolt. Das optische Drehungsvermogen organischer Substctnzen und dessen 
praktische Anwendungen, Braunschweig, 1898. 

£. VON LiPPMANN. Die Chemie der Zuckerarten. 3rd edition, 1904. 
L. Maquennb. Les Sucres et leurs principaux derives. Paris, 1900. 
R. H. Aders Plimmer. The chemical changes and products resulting from fermentaHons, 
London, 1903. 

Van Rijn. Die Glucoside. Berlin, 1900. 

Roscob-Schorlbmmbr's Chemie, Band 8. Pflanzenglycoside. Braunschweig, 1901. 

B. ToLLENS. Kurzes Handbuch der KohlenhydrcUe. and edition, 1898. 

M. Wheldalb. The anthocyan pigments of plants. Cambridge, 1916. 

REFERENCES TO CHAPTER I. 

E. BucHNER, J. Meisbnhbimer UNO H. ScHAOB. Vergohrung des Zuckers ohne Enzyme. 
Ber., 1906, 39, 4217-4231. 

• E. Fischer. Ueher die Configuration des Traubenzuckers und seiner Isomeren, L, II. 
Ber., Z891, 24, 1836-Z845, 2683-2687. 

~ E. Fischer und R. S. Morrbll. Ueber die Configuration der Rhamnose und Galactose, 

Ber., 1894, 37, 382-394- 
- E. Fischer. Konfiguration der Weinsdure. Ber., 1896, 29, 1377-1383. 

,C. S. Hudson. Certain numerical relations in the sugar group, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 
1909, 31, 66-86. 

A. Hynd. Configuration in the sugar group. British Association Report, 1915. 

> P. A. Lbvenb and W. a. Jacobs. Hexoses from d-ribose. Ber., 1910, 43, 3x41-3147. 

W. Lobs. Zur Kenntnis der Zuckerspaltungen, I. Die Einwirkung von Zinkcarbonat auf 
Formaldehydlosungen. Biochem. Zeit., 1908, Z2, 78-96. 

W. Loeb. Zur Kenntnis der Zuckerspaltungen, II. Die Einwirkung von Zinkstaub und 
Eisen auf FormaldehydlOsungen ; die Einwirkung von Zinkstaub auf Trauben- 
zucker, Biochem. Zeit., 1908, Z2, 466-472. 

J. Mbisenhbiiibr. Das Verhalten der Glucose, Fructose und Galactose gegen verdunnte 
Natronlange, Ber., 1908, 41, 1009-10x9. 

20X 



202 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

* J. U. Nbp. Das VerhalUn der Zuckirarten gigin dis Fshlingschi Ldsung sowie gfgcn 

anderi OxydaHonsmitUl, Annalen, 1907, 357, 214-3x2; 1910, 3(76, 1-119; 1914, 
403, 204-283. 

O. PiLOTY. Ueher eins neue TotaUynthssi des Glycerins und des Dioxyacetons, Ber., 1897, 
30, 3161-3169. 

H. ScHAOB. Vergahrung des Zuckers ohne Enzyme. Zcit physikaL Chem., 1906, 57, 1-46. 

H. ScHADB. Uber die Vorg&nge der OOrung vom Standpunki der Katalyse, Biochem. 
Zeitsch., Z908, 7, 299-326. 

A. WoHL. Ueber die AeekUe des Acroleins und des Glycerinaldehyds, Ber., 1898, 31, 
1796-1801. 

A. WoHL. Synthese des x-Glycerinaldehydes. Ber., 1898, 3X9 2394-2395. 

A. WoHL UND F. MoMBBR. Die sterisehe BeMiehung Zwischen Glycerinaldehyd und Wein- 
sUure. Bcr., 1917, 50^ 455-4<^2. 

A. WoHL UND C. Nbubbro. Zur Kenntnis des Glycerinaldehyds. Ber., 1900, 3^ 
3095-3x10. 

REFERENCES TO STRUCTURE AND MUTAROTATION OF GLUCOSE. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Studies an enxyme actum. I. The correlation of the 
stereoisomeric a- and fi-glucosides with the corresponding glucoses. J. Chem. Soc, 
X903, 83, 1305-1313. 

E. Frankland Armstrong and S. L. Courtauld. Formation of isodynamic glucosides 
with reference to the theory of isomeric change and the selective action of ensymes- 
freparation of fi-methyl glucoside. J. Physiol., 1905, 3^ Ptoc iv. 

R. Bbhrbnd. Zur Kenntniss der $-Glucose. Annalen, 19x0, 377, 220-223. 

R. Bbhrbnd und P. Roth. Ueber die Birotation der Glucou. Annalen, 1904, 331, 359- 
382. 

. E. BouRQUBLOT. Rotatofy powers of the a- and fi-alkyl-d-glucosides and alkyt-d-galacto- 
sides. Compt rend, X9x6, z63» 374-377* 

H. T. Brown and G. H. Morris. The action^ in the cold, of diastase on starch-paste. 
J. Chem. Soc., 1895, 67, 309-3x3- 

H. T. Brown and S. Pickbring. Thermal phenomena attending the change in rotatory 
power of freshly prepared solutions of certain carbohydrates, with some remarks on 
the cause of muliirotation. J. Chem. Soc., 1897, 71, 756-783. 

Dubrunpaut. Note sur quelques phinomines rotatoires et sur quelques proprietes des 
sucres. Compt. rend., X846, 23, 38-44. Ann. Chim. phys., 1846, z8» 99-Z07; 1847, 

2Z» X78-180. 

• E. FiscHBR. Einige SSuren der Zuckergruppe. Ber., 1890, 231 2625-2628. 

R. GiLMOUR. MutarotaOon of glucose and its nitrogen derivatives. Proa Chem. Soc, 
X909» 2S 225-226. 

H, Grossmann und F. L. Block. Studien Uber RotaHonsdispersion und Mutarotation 
der Zuckerarten in Wasser, Pyridin und Ameisensdure. Zeitsch. der. deut. Zuckerind, 
1912, X9-74. 

G. Hbitbu Birotation der Galactose. Annsden, 1905, 3381 7X-107. 

, C. S. Hudson. Ueber die Multirotation des Milchnuckers, Zeit. physik. Chem., X903, 

44, 487-494. 
- C. S. Hudson. The hydration of milk-sugar in solution. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., X904, 

26^ X065-X082. 

. C. S. Hudson. Catalysis by adds and bases of the mutarotation of glucose. J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc., X907, 29, 157X-X576. 

C. S. Hudson. The significance of certain numerical relations in the sugar group. J. 
Amer. Chem. Soc., 1909, 3X1 66-86. 

C. S. Hudson. A review of discoveries on the mutarotation of the sugars. J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc., 19x0, 32^ 889-894. 

C. S. Hudson. Some numerical relations among the rotatory powers of the compound 
sugars. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., X9X6, 38* X566-X575. 

. C. S. Hudson. Relation between the chemical constitution and the optical rotatory power 
of the phenylhydrasides of certain acids of the sugar group. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 

X917. 39» 462-470. 
C. S. Hudson. Rotatory powers of the amides of active a-hydroxy acids. J. Amer. Chem. 
Soc., 19x8, 401 8x3-8x7. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 203 

- C. S. Hudson and J. K. Dale. A comparison of the optical roiaiory powers of the a- and fi- 
forms of certain acefylatcd derivatives of glucose. J. Amer. Cheon. Soc, 19x5, 37* 
1264-1270. 

C. S. Hudson and J. K. Dalb. Forms of d-glucose and their mutarotaHon. J. Amer. 
Cbem. Soc, 1917, 39^ 320-328. 

C. S. Hudson and J. M. Johnson. Rotatory powers of some new derivatives of gentiobiose. 
J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 19x7, 39^ X272-X277. 

C. S. Hudson and R. Sayrb. Optical rotatory powers of some acetylated derivatives of 
maltose^ cellose and lactose, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., X9X6, 38* x867-i873. 

C. S. Hudson and E. Yanovsky. Indirect measurements of the rotatory powers of some a 
and fi forms of the sugars by meafu of solubility experiments, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 
»9X7. 39* 10X3.X034. 

J. C. Irvinb, a. W. Fypb and T. P. Hooo. Derivatives of a new form of glucose. J. 
Chem. Soc, X915, 107, SM-54^' 

" J. C. Irvinb and a. M. Moodib. Addition of alhylhalides to alhylated sugars and 
glucosides. J. Chem. Soc., X906, 89, X578-X590. 

. J. C. Irvinb and E. S. Stbblb. Mechanism ofmutarotation in aqueuos solution. J. Chem. 
Soc, 19x5, X07, X230-X240. 

C. L. JuNoius. The mutual transformation of the two stereoisomeric methyl^d-glucosides. 
Proc K. Akad. Wetenach., Amsterdam, X903, 6^ 99-X04. 

C. L. JuNoius. The mutual transformation of the two stereoisomeric pentacetates of 
i-glucose. Proc. K. Akad. Wetenach., Amsterdam, X904, 7, 779-783. 

C. L. JuNGius. Ueber die Umlagerung tswischen einigen isomeren Glukose-derivaten und 
die Mutarotation der Zucherarien, Zeit physikal. Chem., X905, 5a, 97-X08. 

J. Landini. Influenza delta formalina sul potere rotatoria del glucosio in rapporto alia 
teoria delta mulHrotaxione. Attt. R. Accad., Lined, X907, x6» 52-58. 

A. Levy. Die Multirotation der Dextrose. Zeit. physikal. Chem., 1895, 17, 30X-324. 

E. VON LiPPMANN. Bemerhung »ur Frage uber die Ursache der Birotation. Ber., 1896, 

2^ 203-204. 

T. M. LowRY. [Mutarotation of glucose.] J. Chem. Soc, X899, 75, 2x3. 

T. M. LowRY. The mutarotation of glucose. J. Chem. Soc, X903, 8^ X3X4-X323. 

T. M. LowRY> Equilibrium in solutions of glucose and galactose. J. Chem. Soc, 1904, 

8S 1551-1570. 
J. A. MiLROY. Einjiuss inakHver Substansen auf die optische Drehung der Glucose. 

Zeit. physikal. Chem., X904, 50^ 433-464. 

Y. Osaka. Ueber die Birotation der d-Glukose. Zeit. physikal. Chem., X900, ^ 663. 

E. Parous und B. Tollbns. Die Mehr-oder Weniger-Drehung (Multirotation oder sog. 
Birotation und Halbrotation) der Zuckerarten, Annalen, X890, 257, x6o-x78. 

W. H. Pbrkin, Sen. The magnetic rotation of some polyhydric alcohols, J. Chem. Soc, 
X902, 81, X77-X9X. 

P. Rabb und C. Roy. Ueber Mutarotation und elehtrische LeitfUhigheit bei Zuckem. Ber., 
19x0, 43, 2964-2971. 

E. Rouz. Sur la polyrotation des sucres. Ann. Chim. phys., X903, 50, 422-432. 

L. J. Simon. Sur la constitution du glucose, Compt. rend., 1901, 133, 487-490, 596. 

C. 0*SuLLiVAN AND P. W. ToM PSON. InverUuc : a contribution to the history of an 
enzyme or unorganised ferment [multirotation'], J. Chem. Soc, X890, 57, 920 
[834-931]. 

.C. Tanrbt. Les modifications moUculaires du glucose. Bull. Soc Chim., 1895, [iii], 

X3t ^5 ; 72^735. 

C. Tanrbt. Les modifications mol^culaires du glucose. CompL rend., X895, xao» 
X060-X062. 

"C. Tanrbt. Les modifications moUculaires et la multirotation des sucres. Bull. Soc. 
Chim., X896, [iii], 15^ X95-205, 349-36X ; X897, 17, 802-805. 

"C. Tanrbt. Les transformations des sucres H multirotation. Bull. Soc Chim., X905, 

P"]. 33^ 337-348. 

B. Tollbns. Das Verhalten der Dextrose zu ammoniahaliuher SilberlOsung, Ber., X883, 

z6k 92x924. 

*B. Tollbns. Die Ursaehe der Birotation des Traubenzuckers. Ber., X893, 269 X799- 
x8o2. 



204 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

H. Trby. Bx^eriHuntalbdtrag Mur BirotaHau dif Glykos§, Zeit phynkal. Chem., 

1895. X8, 193-218 ; 1897, 23» 4a4-463- 
F. Urbch. Zur strobometrischen Bestimmungr der InvgrHrungsgssckwindigksii van 

Rokrtucker und das Uihergang dsr Birotahon von Milchxuckgr zu sdngr camstoMUn 

Drehung. Ber., 1882, 15, 2130-2133. 

P. Urbch. UrsSchlicher Zusammsnhang swischen LOslichkeits und opHscher Drehungs 
erscheinung bet Milchzucker und Formulirung der Uehergangsgeschwindigkeit sHmr 
BirotoHon in die normale. Ber., 1883, 16^ 2270-2271. 

F. Urbch. Ueber den BitoiaHonsruckgang der Dextrose. Ber., 1884, 17, 1547-1550. 

F. Urbch. Ueber die Reihenfolge einiger Biosen und Glycosen betreffend Reactions- und 
BirotaHonsruckgangs-Geschwindigkeit mit Rucksicht auf die Constitutionsformeln 
und den Begriff der AffinitdtsgrUsse. Ber., 1885, z8» 3047-3060. 

REFERENCES TO DERIVATIVES OF GLUCOSE. 

F. VON Arlt. Zur Kenntnis der Glucose. Monatsh., 1901, 82, 144-150. 

E. Frankland Armstrong and P. S. Arup. Stereoisomeric glucoses and ike kydrolysis 
qfglucosidic acetaUs. J. Chem. Soc., 1904, 85, 1043-1049. 

LoBRY DB Bruyn AND A. VAN Ekbnstbin. Formal derivatives of sugars. Free. K. 
Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1902, 5, 175-177; R«c. trav. Chim., 1903, 22, 
159-165. 

J. K. Dalb. Preparation of bromoacetyl glucose and certain otker bromoacetyl sugars. J. 
Amer. Chem. Soc., 19x6, 381 2187. 

A. VAN Ekbnstbin. Le second mitkylglucoside. Rec trav. Chim., 1894, 131 183-186. 

£. Erwio und Vf. KoNiGS. PenUuetyldextrose. Ber., 1889, 22, 1464-1467. 

E. Erwio und yf. Konigs. FUnfftuk acetylirte Galaktose und Dextrose. Ber., 1889, 22, 
2207-22x3. 

E. FiscRBR. Ueber die Glucoside der Alkokole. Ber., 1893, 26, 2400-2412; 1895, 28, 
1x45-1x67. 

' E. FiscHBR. Ueber die Verbindungen der Zuckerarien mit den Mercapianen, Ber., 1894, 

a7» ^3-679. 

E. FiscHBR. Notix iiber die AeelokcUogen-glucosen und die p-Brompkenylosaxons von 
Maltose und Melibiose. Ber., X9xx, 44, X898-1904. 

E. FisCHBR. Glucal and kydroglucal. Ber., X9X4, 47, X96-210. 

- E. FiscHBR UND E. F. Armstrong. Ueber die isomeren Aceiokalogen-Derivate der Zucker 
und die Syntkese der Glucoside, I., II., III. Ber., 1901, 54, 2885-2900; 1902, 3;^ 

833-843 ; 3153-3155. 

E. FiscHBR UND L. Bbbnsch. Ueber einige syntketiscke Glucoside. Ber., 1894, 27, 2478- 
2486. 

E. FiscHBR UND H. NoTH. Partial acylation of polykydric alcokols and sugars. Ber., 

, 1918, 51, 321-353. 
E. FiscHBR UND K. Raskb. Verbiudung von Acetobromglucose und Pyridin. Ber., X910, 

43> 1750-1753. 
E. FiscHBR UND K. Zach. Ncue Ankydride der Glucose und Glucoside. Ber., 19x2, 45, 

456-465. 

E. FiscHBR AND K. Zach. Reduction of acetobromoglucose. Sitxungsber. K. Akad. wiss., 
Berlin, 19x3, 3XX-317. Ber., 19x2, 45, 2068-2074. 

A. P. N. Franchimont. Les deux pentacitates de la glucose. Rec trav. Chim., 1893, 12, 

310-314. 
V. Fritz. Ueber einige Derivate des Benzoylcarbinols und des Dipkenacyls. Ber., 1895, 

28, 3028-3034. 

C. S. Hudson. Existence of a tkird crystalline pentacetate of galactose. J. Amer. Chem. 
Soc., X915, 37, X59X-X593. 

C. S. Hudson. Acetyl derivatives of tke sugars, J. Ind. Eng. Chem., X916, 8» 379. 

C. S. Hudson and D. H. Brauns. Crystalline d-fructose pentacetate. J. Amer. Chem. 

Soc., X915, 37, X283-X285 ; a second crystalline d-fructose pentacetate. Ibid., 2736- 

2745. 
C. S. Hudson and J. K. Dalb. Isomeric pentacetaies ofmannose. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 

I9i5f 37» X280-X282. 
C. S. Hudson and J. K. Dalb. Isomeric tetracetates of l-arabinose. J. Amer. Chem. 

Soc., X9x8, 40, 993-997. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 205 

C. S. Hudson and J. M. Johnson. Iscmmc MracHain of xylose. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 

1915, 37» 2748-2753. 
'C. S. Hudson and J. M. Johnson. A fourth crystalline peniacetaU of galactose. J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc., 1916, 38^ 1223-1228. 

- C. S. Hudson and H. O. Parkbr. Conversion of galactose pentacetate to an isomeric form, 

J. Amer. Chem. Soc, 1915, 37» 1589-1591. 

- C. S. Hudson and E. Yanovsky. Isomeric a- and fi-hexacetates of orglucoheptose. J. 

Amer. Chem. Soc., 1916, 38, 1576-1578. 

*J. C. Irvinb and R. Gilmour. The constitution of glucose denvaHves, Glucose 
anilide, oxime and hydrasone, J. Chem. Soc., 1900, 95, 1429-1442. 

- J. C. Irvinb and R. Gilmour. Constitution of glucose derivatives, II. CondensaHon 

derivatives of glucose with (tromatic amino compounds. J. Chem. Soc., 1909, 95, 

1545-1555. 
J. C. Irvine and A. Hynd. o-Carboxyanilides of the sugars. J. Chem. Soc., 1911, 
99, z6z-i68. 

'J. C. Irvinb and D. McNicoll. The constitution and mutarotaHon of sugar anilides. 
Trans. Chem. Soc., 1910, 97, I449-I456. 

W. KoNios UND £. Knorr. Ueber einige Derivate des Traubenzuckers. Sitzungsber. 
K. Akad., Mttnchen, 1900, 50, 103-105. 

W. KoNiGs UND E. Knorr. Ueber einige Derivate des Traubenzuckers und der Galactose. 

Ber., 1901, 34, 957-981. 
R. Krbmann. Ueber die Verseifungsgeschwindigkeit von Monose und Biose Acetaten. 

Monatsh., 1902, 23, 479-488. 

L. Maqubnne. La preparation du $-methylglucoside. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1905, [iii], 33, 

469-471. 
J. Moll van Charante. Sur les dirivis acityliques des deux methylglucosides et sur 

Vacitobromglucose. Rec. trav. Chim., 1902, 3X, 42-44. 

R. S. MoRRBLL AND J. M . Cropts. Action of hydrogen peroxide on carbohydrates in the 
presence of ferrous sulphate. J. Chem. Soc., 1902, 8x, 666-675; 1903, 8^ 1284- 
1292. 

R. S. MoRRBLL AND J. M. Cropts. Modes of formation of osones. Proc. Camb. Phil. 

Soc., 1903, 12, II5-I2I. 

W. ScHNBiDBR. Action of hydrogen sulphide on glucose. Ber., 1916, 49^ 1638-1643. 

• W. ScRNBiDBR AND J. Sbpp. Bthylthtoglucoside. Ber., 19x6, 49^ 2054-2057. 

N. ScHOORL. Urea derivatives of monohexoses, Rec. trav. Chim., 1903, 22^ 31-37* 

Z. H. Skraup und R. Krbmann. Ueber Acetochlorglucose, -Galactose und Milchzucker. 
Monatsh., 1901, 22, 375-384, X037-1048. 

C. Tanrbt. Les Hhers acitiques de quelques sucres. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1895, [iii], 13, 

261-273. 

E. VotoSbk. Beitrag zur NomenkUUur der Zuckerarten. Ber., 191 1, 44* 360-361. 

E. VoTO^BK AND V. Vbsbly. Resolution of racemic sugars by means of optically active 
amyl mercaptans. Zeitsch. Zuckerind. Bohm., 1916, 40^ 207-211. 

W. Will und F. Lbnzb. Nitrirung von Kohlehydraten. Ber., 1898, 31, 68-90. 

REFERENCES TO ALKYLATED SUGARS. 

■ « ^ 

W. N. Ha worth. A new method of preparing alkylated sugars. J. Chem. Soc., 1915, 
107, 8-16. 

^' J. C. Irvine and A. Cameron. The alkylation of galactose. J. Chtfm. Soc., 1904, 85» 
1071-1081. 

^ J. C. Irvine and A. Cambron. Study of alky letted glucosides. J. Chem. Soc., 1905, 879 
900-909. 

*J. C. Irvinb and A. Hynd. Monomethyl leevulose and its derivatives: constitution of 
lavulose diacetone. J. Chem. Soc., 1909, 95, 1220-1228. 

^ J. C. Irvine and J. L. A. Macdonald, Formation and preparation of glucosemonoacetone. 
J. Chem. Soc., 1915, 107, 1701-1710. 

-J. C. Irvine and A. M. Moodib, Alkylation of mannose. J. Chem. Soc, 19051 87* 
X462-1468. 

j. C. Irvinb and A. M. Moodib. Derivatives of t^tromsthylglucose, J, Chem. Soc., 
X908, 93, 95-107. 



2o6 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

^ J. C. Irvinb and J. P. Scott. Partially rnHhyUMl glueoMes, I., IL, III. J. Chem. Soc, 

1913. 103b 564-575t 575-58C ; 19x4. lOS 1386-1396. 
'* T. PuRDiB AND R. C. Bridqbtt. THmiihyl a-mstkylglucosids aMd trimMylglucou. 

J. Chem. Soc, 1903, 8^ X037-Z04Z. 

^ T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvinb. AlkylaHon ofs^ats, J. Chem. Soc, 1903, 8^ 1021-1037. 

^ T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvinb. Tk$ sUnoUommc Utramstkyl mHkyl glucondes and tetror 
mMyl glucos€. J. Chem. Soc, 1904, 85, 1049-1070. 

^ T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvinb. SynihuU /rom glucos$ of an octamMylaied disaccharide. 
Methy lotion of sucrose a$id maltou. J. Chem. Soc, 1905, 87» zo 22-1030. 

T. PuRoiE AND D. M. Paul. AlkylaHon of A-fructose, J. Chem. Soc, 1907, 91, 289-299. 

T. PuRDiB AND R. E. R08B. AlkylaHon of X-arabinou, J. Chem. Soc, 1906, 89^ 1204- 

Z2ZO. 

T. PuRDiB AND C. R. YouNQ. AlkyloHon of mannose. J. Chem. Soc, Z906, 89^ ZZ94- 
Z204. 

REFERENCES TO CHAPTER II. 

I. Bano. Ueber dis DarsUllung dor MonlholglucuronsOure. Biochem. Zdt, X9zz, 52, 445. 

D. Bbrthblot and H. Gaudbchon. Photolysis of ketoses by solar and ultravioUt light. 
Compt. rend., Z9Z2, 155, 4dz-403 ; zoz^ 

D. Bbrthblot and H. Gaudbchon. Phoio-chomical docompoHHon of glucose and galac- 

tose, Compt rend., Z9Z2, 15^ 83Z-833. 

K. H. BdDDBNBR UND B. T0LLBN8. Afobonsdure. Ber., zgzo, 43^ Z645-Z650. 

H. H. BuNZBL. Rate of oxidation of the sugars in an acid medium. J. BtoL Chem., Z908, 
4, vil 

H. H. BuNBBL. Mechanism of the oxidation of glucose by bromine in neutral and acid 
solutions, J. Amer: Chem. Soc, Z909, 31, 464-479. 

L. E. CAVA2ZA. Ricerche sperimontali : contrtbuto alio studio dei tannini, ^ Zettsch. wiss. 
Mikroekopie, Z908, 2^ Z3-20; Z909, a6» 59-64. 

F. Ehrlich, Oalacturonic acid from pectin, Chem. Zeit, Z917, 41, Z97-200. 

A. VAN Ekbnstbin bt J. J. Blanksma. Transformation du Ugulose et du X-idose en 
l-sorbose. Rec trav. Chim., Z908, 27, z-4. 

W. A. VAN Ekbnstbin and J. J. Blanksma. Bildung von Lavulinsdure aus Hexoscn. 
Chem. Weekblad, Z910, 7, 387-390. 

W. A. VAN Ekbnstbin and J. J. Blanksma. m-Oxymethylfurfurol als Ursache einige 
Parbredktionsn dor Hexosen, Ber., Z9Z0, 4^ 2355-236Z. 

H. J. H. Pbnton. Oxidation in presence of iron, Proc Camb. PhiL Soc, Z902, zz, 

358-374. 
A. Fbrnbach and M. Schobn. Products of the decomposition of glucose in alkaline 
medium, Compt rend., Z9Z4, z^ 976-978. 

E. Pischbr. Reduktion von Sduren der Zuckergruppe, Ber., Z889, 22, 2204-2205 ; Z890, 

23, 930-938 ; 2625-2628. 

•E. FiscHBR. Ueber Kohlenstoffreichere Zuckerarten asu Glucose. Annalen, Z892, 270^ 
64-Z07. 

' E. FiscHBR. Uebor Kohlenstoffreichere Zucker aus Galactose. Annalen, Z895, 2B8; Z39- 

157. 
'E. FiscHBR UND M. Bbrgm ANN. Uobor das Tannin und die Synthese dhnlicher Stoffe, 
Ber., Z9z8, 51, Z760-Z804. 

^ E. FisCHBR UND M. Bbromann. Structure of fi-glucosidogallic acid, Ber,, 19 18, 5Z, 
1804-Z808. 

E. FiscHBR UND K. Frbudbnbbrg. Ueber das Tannin und die Synthese ithnlicher Stoffe, 

Ber., Z9Z2, 4s 915-935- 
' E. FiscHBR UND K. Hbss. Vorbiudungen einiger Zucker-Detivate mit Motkyl-magne- 
siumjodid, Ber., 19 12, 45, 9Z2-9Z5. * 

£. FiscHBR UND W. Passmorb. Uebor Kohlenstoffreichere Zuckerarten aus d-Mannose. 
Ber., Z890, 23, 2226-2239. 

E. FiscHBR UND O. Piloty. Uebcr Kohlenstoffreichere Zuckerarten aus Rhamnase. Ber., 
1890, 2^ 3 102-3 1 10. 

E. F18CHBR AND K. Zach. New anhydrides of glucose and glucosides, Ber., Z912, 45, 456- 
465, 2068-2074. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 207 

A. V. Grotb, E. Kbhrbr und B. Tollbns. Untersuchungsn ueber die Ldvulinsdun oder 
fi-^uetopropioHsHute. I. DanUllung und EigSHschafieu der L&vulinsdure. Annalen, 
x88i, ao6, 207. II. Bildung der Ldvulinsaure aus v^rschiedeiun KohlinhydraUn. 
Annalen, 1881, 206^ a26. 

M. GuBBBRT. TransfamuUioH dss oxyacidss-a en aldehydes par ebuUHon de la solution 
aqueuse de leurs sels mercurique, application d la preparation de Varabinose gauche 
au moyen du gluconate mercurique. Compt. rend., 1908, 146^ 133-134. 

M. M. Harrison. Action of acids on fructose and glucose, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1914, 

36, 586-603. 
M. Hauriot. Chloraloses {ResunU), Ann. Chim. Phys., 1909, z8» 466-502. 

O. F. Hbdbnburq. Esters and monomolecular $- and y-lactones of d-mannonic and d- 
gluconic acids, J. Amer Chem. Soc., 19x5, 37* 345-372. 

H. HiLDBBRANDT. Zur ftage der glycosidischen Struhtur gepaarter Glykuronsauren. 
Beitr. Chem. path., 1905, 7, 438-454. 

C. S. Hudson. A relation between the chemical constitution and the optical rotatory 
power of the sugar lactones, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 19x0, 33, 338-346. 

K. Inouyb. Die Einwirkung von Zinkoxyd-Ammoniah auf d-Galaktose und l-Arabinose. 
_ Ber., X907, 4O1 x89e-x892. 

H. KiLiANi. Das Cyanhydrin der Ldvulose, Ber., X885, i8» 3066-3072. 

H. KiLiANi. Das Cyanhydrin der Ldvulose, Ber., x886, 19, 22X-227. 

H. KiLXANi. Derstellung von Glycolsdure aus Zueker, Annalen, x88o, aoS 191-193. 

- H. KiLiANi. Die Einwirkung von Blausdure auf Dextrose, Ber., x886, 19, 767-772. 

- H. KxLiANi. Die Constitution der Dextrosecarbonsdute, Ber., x886, 19, XX28-1130. 
'H. KtLiANi. Die Cy Zueker aus Met<i- und Para-Saccharin, Ber., X908, 4Z, X20-X24. 
' H. KiLiANL Saccharinsduren, Ber., 1908, 4X9 469-470. 

- H. KiLXANi. Ueber die Einwirkung von Calciumhydroxyd auf MilchMucker, Ber., X909, 

42» 3903-3904. 
W. T. Lawrbncb. Ueber Verbindungen der Zueker mit dem Athylen, Trimethylen und 
Bengylmercaptan, Ber., X896, 29, 547-552. 

C. A. Lobby db Bruyn. Action des AlcaUs diluh sur les hydrates de carbonne, Rec. trav. 
Chim., X895, Z4, X56-X65. 

C. A. LoBRY DB Bruyn bt A. van Ekbnstbxn. Action des alcalis sur les suctes, II. 
Transformation riciproque des uns dans les autpes des sucres glucose, fructose et 
mannose, Rec. trav. Chim. X895, 14, 204-2x6. 

A. Maonus-Lbvy. Ueber Paarung der Glukuronsdure mit optischen AnUpoden, Biochem. 

Zeit., 1907, 2, 319-33^- 
P. Maybr. Vber asymmetrische Glucuronsdurepaarung, Biochem. Zeit., X908, 9^ 

439-441. 
R. S. MoRRBLL AND A. E. Bbllars. Some compounds of guanUUne with sugars, J. 

Chem. Soc., X907, 92, xoxo-xo33. 

"j. U. Nbf. Dissociation processes in the sugar group, I., II. and III. Annalen, X907, 357, 
2x4-3x2 ; X9XO, 376» X-XX9 ; X9X4, 403, 204-283. 

C. Nbubbro. Zur Kenntniss der Glukuronsdure, Ber., X900, 33, 33x7-3323. 

C. Nbubbro und E. Kkbtschmbr. Ueber p-Kresolglucuronsdure, Biochem. Zeit, X9xx, 

3^ 15-21. 
C. Nbubbro und S. Lachmann. Ueber ein neues Verfahren xur Gewinnung von Glucuron- 

sdure und Menthol-Glucuronsdure. Biochem. Zeit, X9X0, 34, 4x6-422. 

Th. R. Oppbr. Eine neue Gruppe von sUchstoffhaltigen Kohlenhydrate. Beitr. Chem. 
Physiol. Path., X906, 8, 399-405. 

L. H. Philxppb. Les acides glucodeconiques, Compt. rend., X9X0, 251, 986-988, X366- 
X367. 

L*. H. Philippb. Recherehes sur les matihes sucries supSrieures derivees du glucose, Ann. 
Chim. Phys., X9i2, [viii], a6» 289-4x8. [A r^sum^.] 

O. Rupp. Die Verwandlung der d-Oluconsdure in d-Arabinose. Ber., X898, 31, Z573-x577. 

O. RuFP. d- und r-Arabinose. Ber., X899, 33, 550-560. 

O. Rupp. d-Erythrose, Ber., X899, 3a, 3672-368X. 

E. Salkowski und C. Nbubbro. Zur Kenntniss der Phenolglukuronsdure, Biochem. 
Zeit, X907, 3, 307-3". 

M. L. Saurbz. An isomeride of glucuronic add, Chem. Zeit, 19x7, 4X1 87. 



2o8 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

K. Smolbnski. Uiber due gepaarU glukuronsaure aus der Zuckenube, Zeitsch. physioL 
Chem., 1911, 7X1 266-269. 

B. ToLLBNS UNO K. H. BoDDENBR. Untersuckungett uherdie Arabonsaure. Z. Ver. Deut 
Zuckerind., 1910, 60, 727. 

A,. WiNDAUS UND F. Koop. UeherfuktHng voH Trauhenzucker in'MethylimidoMoU Ber., 

1905. 38, 1166-1170. 
A. WiNDAUS. Zersetzung von Trauhmzucher dutch Zinkhydroxyd-Ammoniak bei Gegen- 

wart von Acetaldehyd. Ber., 1906, 39, 3886-3891. 

A. WiNDAUS. Einwirkung von Zinkhydroxyd-Ammoniak auf einige Zttckerarten. Ber., 

1907, 4O1 799-802. 

A. WoHL. Abbau dss Traubensuckers, Ber., 1893, 26, 730-744. 
A. WoHL. Abbau der Galactose. Ber., 1897, 30, 310Z-3108. 
A. WOKL. Abbau der l-Arabinose, Ber., 1899, 52, 3666-3672. 

REFERENCES TO PHENYLHYDRAZONES, OSAZONES, ETC. 

'^ R. Bbhrbnd und F. Lohr. Phenylhydrazone der Glucose. Annalen, 1907, 353, 106-122 ; 

1908, 3to, 78-114 ; 1910, 377, 189-220. 

^ R. Bbhrbnd und W. Rbinsbero. Ober die Phenylhydrazone der Glucose, Annaleni 
1910, 377, 189-220. 
J. V. Braun. Behaviour of sugars towards dif>henylmethane dimethylhydraxine, Ber., 

1917. SO. 4a-43. 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin bt J. J. Blanksma. Hydrazones derivees des nitrophenylhydraxines, 

Rec trav. Chim., 1903, 22, 434-439 ; i905t 24, 33.39. 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin und Lobry de Bruyn. Isomeric bei den fi-Naphthylhydrazonen der 

Zucker, Ber., 1902, 3082-3085. 
• E. Fischbr. Verbindungen des Phenylhydrazins mit den Zuckerarten, I.-V. Ber., 1884, 

I7» 579-584; 1887, 20, 821-834 ; 1888, 21, 988-991, 2631-2634 ; 1889, 22, 87-97. 
E. Fischbr. Schmelzfunkt des Phenylhydrazins und einiger osazone. Ber., 1908, 41, 73-77. 
E« Fischbr und E. F. Armstrono. Darstellung der Osone aus den Osaxonen der 

Zucker, Ber., 1902, 35, 3x41-3144. 

A. HiLOBR UND S. Rothbnfussbr. Ucbcr die Bedeutung der fi-Naphthylhydraxone der 
Zuckerarten fur deren Erkennung und Trennung, Ber., 1902, 35, 1841-1845, 4444- 

4447. 
H. Jacobi. BirotaHon und Hydrazonbildung bei einigen Zuckerarten, Annalen, 1892, 

272, 170-182. 
E. C. Kbndall and H. C. Sherman. Detection of reducing sugars by condensation with 

p-bromobenzylhydrazine, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1908, 30, 1451-Z455. 

' C. A. Lobry db Bruyn bt A. van Ekbnstbin. Quelques nouvelles hydrazones des sucres : 
les naphthylhydrazones et les phenylhydraxones alcyUes {methyl-, Hhyl-, amyl-^ 
allyl', et benzyl). Rec. trav. Chim., 1896, 15, 97-99, 225-229. 

L. Maqubnnb. Vemploi de la phenylhydrazine cL la determination des sucres. Compt. 
rend., 1891, XX2, 799-802. 

A. MuTHBR UND B. ToLLBNS. Einige Hydrazone und ihre Schmelzpunkte. Fucose, 
Rhodeose. Ber., 1904, 37, 298-305, 31 1-3 15. 

C. Nbubbbo. Ueber die Reinigung der Osazone und xur Bestimmung ihrer optischen 
Drehungsrichtung, Ber., 1899, 32, 3384-3388. 

C. Nbubbrq. Ueber die Isolirung der Ketosen. Ber., 1902, 35, 959-966, 2626-2633. 

C. Nbubbrg. Die Methylphenylhydrazinreaction der Fructose. Ber., 1904, 37, 4616-4618-. 

C. Nbubbrq und M. Fbdbrbr. Ueber d-Amylphenylhydrazin. Ber., 1905, 38, 866-868. 

C. Nbubbro und H. Strauss. Ueber Vorkommen und Nachweis von Fruchtzucker in den 
menschlichen Kdrpersaften, Z. physiol. Chem., 1902, 36, 227-238. 

R. Opnbr. Einwirkung von Benzylphenylhydrazin auf Zucker. Ber., 1904, 37, 2623- 

2625. 
R. Ofnbr. Einwirkung von Methylphenylhydrazin auf Zucker. Ber., X904, 37, 3362- 

3363. 
R. Opnbr. Abscheidung von Aldosen durch secunddre Hydrazine. Ber., 1904, 37, 4399- 
4402. 

A« Rbclairb. Beitr&ge zur Kenntnis der Hydrazone der Zuckerarten ; o-, m-, undp-Nitrq- 
phenyl hydrazone. Ber., 1908, 41, 3665-3671, 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 209 

O. Rupp UND G. Ollbndorfp. Verfdhren sur Randarstellung und TrsHnung von Zuckem, 

Bet., 1899, 32, 3234-3337- 
L. J. Simon bt H. BiNARD. Sur Us phenylhydroMones du ^-glucose H Uur mulHrotoHon, 

Compt. rend., zgoz, Z32» 564-566. 

R. Stabbl. DerivaU dgs Diphenylhydrazins und Mgthylphenylhydraxins, Annalen, 
1890, 2581 242-251. 

^ B. ToLLBNS UND A. D. Maurbnbrbchbr. Vehtr die Diph$nylhydrazon4 dtr X-AraHnou 
und der Xylose. Ber., 1905, ^ 500-501. 

F. TuTiN. The melting-point of d-phenylglucosazone. Proc« Chem. Soc., 1907, 23, 250- 
252. 

E. Voto£bk und R1 Vondra^bk. Trennung und Isolirung reducirender Zuckerarten 
mittels aromoHscher Hydrazine. Ber., 1903, 36, 4372 ; 1904, 37, 3854-3858. 



REFERENCES TO AMINOGLUCOSES. 

R. Brbubr. Dasfreie Chitosamin. Ber., 1898, 31, 2x93-2200. 

E. F18CMBR UND E. Andrbab. Ueher Chitons&ure und Chitarsaure. Ber., 1903, 36, 2587- 
2592. 

E. F18CHBR und H. Lbuchs. Synthese des Serins^ der l-QlucosaminsSure und anderer 
Oxyaminosduren. Ber., 1902, 35, 3787-3805. 

E. FiscMBR UND H. Lbuchs. Synthese des d-Glucosamins. Ber., 1903, 36^ 24-29. 

\ E. FiscHBR UND»F. TiBMANN. Ueber das Glucosamin, Ber., 1894, 27, 138-147. 

E. FiscHBR UND K. Zach. Neue Synthese von Basen der Zuckergruppe. Ber., 19x1, 44, 
X32-X35. 

S. Frankbl und a. Kblly. Constitution des Chitins. Monatsh., X9oa, 2^ X23-X32. 

N C. S. Hudson and J. K. Dalb. The isomeric pentacetates of glucosamine and of chondro- 
samine. J. Amer. Chem. Soc, X9X6, 38, X43 1-1436. 

> J. C. Irvinb. a polarimetric method of identifying chitin. J. Chem. Soc., X909, 95, 

564-570. 
J. C. Irvinb and A. Hynd. Conversion of d-glucosamine into d-glucose. Trans. Chem. 

Soc., X9X2, ZOZ, XX28-XZ46. 

^ J. C. Irvinb and A. Hynd. The conversion of d-glucosamine into d-mannose, J. Chem. 
Soc., X9X4, zos 698-710. 

^ J. C. Irvinb, D. McNicoll and A. Hynd. New derivatives of d-glucosamine. Trans. 
Chem. Soc, X9xx, 99, 250-26X. 

G. Lbddbrhosb* Ueber Chitin und seine Spaltungsprodukte. Zeit, physiol. Chem., X878, 
2, 2x3-227. 

P. A. Lbvbnb. Chondrosamine. J. Biol. Chem., 19x6, 26* X43-X54. 
P. A. Lbvbnb. Synthesis of hexosamines. J. BioL Chem., 19x6, 26^ X55-162. 
P. A. Lbvbnb. Chondrosamine and its synthesis. J. Biol. Chem., X9X7, 31, 609-62 x. 
P. A. Lbvbnb and F. B. la Forgb. d-Lyxohexosamic acid and aa'-anhydromucic acid. 
J. BioL Chem., X9X5, 22, 33^-335- 

% P. A. Lbvbnb and F. B. la Forob. Xylohexosamic acid : its derivatives and their bearing 
on the configuration of isosaccharic and epi-isosaccharic acids. J. Biol. Chem., X9X5, 

M» 351-359- 
^ P. A. Lbvbnb and F. B. la Forgb. Chondroitin sulphuric acid. J. Biol. Chem., X9X5, 20, 

433-444- 
C. A. LoBRY DB Bruyn. Uu dhrivi ammoniacal du fructose. Rec. trav. Chim., 1899, z8» 
72-76; La chitosamine libre, I.e., 77-85. 

^ C. A. LoBRY DB Bruyn bt F. H. van Lbbnt. Derives ammoniacaux de quelques sucres. 
Rec trav. Chim., X895, 14, X34-X48. 

C. A. Lobby db Bruyn bt A. P. N. Franchimont. DerivSs ammoniacaux cristallisSs 
dehydrates de carbonne. Rec. trav. Chim., X894, Z2, 286-289 ; X896, 15, 8X-83. 

C. A. Lobry db Bruyn und A. P. N. Franchimont. Die Ammoniakderivate der Kohlen- 
hydrate. Ber., X895, 28, 3082-3084 ; Das freie Chitosamin. Ber., X898, 31, 2476- 
2477. 

L. Maqubnnb bt E. Roux. Sur une nouvelle base derivie du glucose, Compt rend., X901, 
132, 980-983 ; X903, X37, 658. 

C. Nbubbrg. Ueber d-Glucosamin und Chitose. Ber.. X902, 35, 4009-4023. 

14 



2IO THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

C. Neubkro und H. Wolff. Usber a- und fi-^-Andna-A-GlucohtpUmsSure^ Ber., 1903, 

36, 6iS-62o. 
Th. R. Offbr. Vbsr Chitim, Biochem. Zeitscb., 1907, 7, 1 17-127. 

* H« Pringshbim. Metkylation of glucosamic acid. A way from sugar to betaitu. Her., 
1915, 48, 1158-1161. 

W. Ross. Origin of the glucosamins obtained in the hydrolysis of ** BoUius idulis **. Bio- 

chem. J., 1915, 9, 3I3-3I9- 
£. Roux. Sur des nouvelUs baus dirivies dss pentoses et du mannose, Compt. rend., 1903, 

ISfif X079-Z08Z ; 1904, 1389 503-505. Ann. chim. phys., 1904, z, 72-144, 160-185. 

H. Stbudel. Bine neue Methode sum Nackweis von Glukosamin und ihre Anwendung 
aufdie Spaltungsprodukte der Mudne, Zeit. physiol. Chem., 1902, 34, 353-384. 

K. Stoltb. Ueber das Verkalten des Glucosamins und seines ndchsten UmwamdlungS" 
produktes im Thierkorper. Beitr. Chem. Physiol. Path., 1907, zz, 19-34. 

K. Stoltb. Ueber den Abbau des Fructosasins {DiteircH)xybutylpyrasins) im Tkisr- 
korper, Biochem. Zeitsch., 1908, Z2, 499-509. 

E. E. SuNDwiK. Zur ConsHtuiion des Chitins, Zeit. physiol. Chem., 188 1, ^ 384-394. 

' C. Tanrbt. Les Glucosines. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1897, [iii], Z7, 801-802. Le chlorkydrate 
de Glucosamine BulL Soc. Chim., 1897, Lc, 802-805. 

F. TiBMANN. Einiges uber den Abbau von salssauren Glucosamin. Ber., 1884, zy, 241- 

251. 

P. TiBMANN. Glucosamin. Ber., 1886, Z9^ 49-53o 

F. TiBMANK. Isosuckersdure. Ber., 1886, Z9» 1 257-1281. 

F. TiBMANN UND E. FiscHBR. Das Glucosamsu. Ber., 1894, 27, 138- 147. 

£. WxNTBRSTBiN. Zur Kenntuiss der in den Membran der Pilse entkaltenen Bestandikeile I. 
Zeit. physiol. Chem., 1894, Z9^ 521-562. 

REFERENCES TO GLUCOSE PHOSPHATES. 

P. CASRi. Les bikers polypkospkoriques de la mannite, de la quercite^ du glucose, et de 
rinosite. Bull. Soc. Chim., 191 1, [iv], 9, 195-199. 

A. CoNTARDL Eteri fosforici di alcuni idrati di CarbonicL Rend. Ace. Lin. Sci., 1910, 
825-827. 

A. Harden and W. J. Youno. Composition oftke kexose pkospkorie acid formed by yeast 
juice, L, II. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1911, 33, 173-188. 

K. Langhbld. Ueber Dioxyaceton- und Fructose-pkospkorsaure, Ber., 1912, 45, 1x25- 
Z127. 

A. VON Lbbbdefp. Ueber Hexosepkospkorsaure Ester, I., II. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1910, 
28,2x3-229; X91 1, 36, 248-260. 

C. Neubbrg und E. Krbtschmbr. Weiteres uber kunstlicke Darstellung von Koklen- 
^kydratpkosphorsdureestem und Glycerinpkospkorsdure. Biochem. Zeitsch., 191 z, 

C. Nbubbro and H. Pollak. Ueber Pkospkorsdure- und Sckwefelsdure Ester von 

Koklenkydraten. Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x0, a6, 5Z4-528. 

W. J. Young. Hexose pkospkate formed by yeast juice from kexose and a pkospkaU. 
Proc. Roy. Soc., Z909, 13, 8x, 528-545. 

REFERENCES TO CHAPTER III.— HEXOSES. 

G. Bbrtrand. Sur la preparation biockimique de Sorbose. Compt. rend., 18967 Z22, 

900. Bull. Soc. Chim., X896, Z5, 627. 
•^ G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bacterie du Sorbose sur les alcools plurivalents. Compt. 
rend., X898, za6, 762. 

D. H. Brauns. Lavulose pentacetate. Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1908, zo, 

563- 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin and J.J. Blanksma. Lavorotation ofmannose. Chem. Weekblad., 

Z907f4»5"-5i4- 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin and J. J. Blanksma. Sugars [lyxose, gulose, talose, etc.]. Chem. 

Weekblad, 1907, 4, 743-748 ; 1908, 5. 777-78z. 
A. VAN Ekbnstbin et J. J. Blanksma. Transformation du \-gulose et du l4dose en 

I'sorbose. Rec trav. Chim., 1908, 27, x-4. 
H. J. H. Fenton and M. Gostlinq. Bromometkylfurfuraldekyde. Tke action ofkydrogen 

bromide on carbokydrates. J. Chem. Soc., X899, 75, 423 ; X90X, 79, 36X. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 211 

E. F18CHBR UND L. Bbbnsch. Ueb€r die beiden optisch isomeren Methylmannoside, Ber., 

X896, 29, 3927-2931. 

- E. Fischer und J. Hirschberqbr. Ueber Mannose^ I.-IV. Ber., z888, 2X, 1805-1809; 
1889,23,365-376; 1155-1156; 3218-3224. 

F. B. La Forqb. d-Mannoketoheptose, a new sugar from the Avocado. J. Biol. Chem., 

1917, 28, 511-522. 
F. B. La Forob and C. S. Hudson. Sedoheptose, a new sugar from **Sedum 5pectabiU^\ 
J. Biol. Chem., 19 17, 30, 61-77. 

^ K. Frbudbnbbro. Configuration of the glyceric and lactic acids, Ber., 1914, 47, 2027- 
2037. 
A. HiLQBR. Zur Kenntniss der PflanMenschleime. Ber., 1903, jtS, 3197-3203. 
« C. S. Hudson. American sources of supply for the various sugars. J. Ind. Eng. Chem., 
X918, 10, 176. 

' C S. Hudson and D. H. Brauns. Crystalline fi-methyl fructoside cMd its tetrctcetate. 
J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1916, 38, 1216-1223. 

C. S. Hudson and H. L. Sawyer. Preparation of pure crystalline mannose and a study 
of its mutarotcUion. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1917, 59, 470-478. 

J. C. Irvine and C. S. Garrett. Acetone derivatives of dfructose, J. Chem. Soc, 
1910, 97, 1277-1284. 

« J. C. Irvine and G. Robertson. Existence of a new variety of fructose. A reactive 
form of methyl fructoside. J. Chem. Soc, 1916, Z09, 1305-1314. 

A. JoLLBs. Zur Kenntniss des Zerfalls der Zuckerarten. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1910, 29, 
152-201. 

A. JoLLBS. Einwirkung von Ammoniak und von Nairiumcarbonat auf verschiedene 
Zuckerarten in verdunnter wasseriger Losung. Biochem. Zeitsch., 191-1, 52, 97-100. 

^ H. KiLiANi. Inulin. Annalen, 1880, 205, 145-190. 

* H. KiLiANi. Saccharinsaure. Ber., 1911, 44, 109-113. 

H. KiLiANi und C. Schbiblbr. Die Constitution der Sorbinose. Ber,, 1888, 2Z, 3276- 

3281. 
N P. A. Lbvbnb and W. a. Jacobs. Ueber die Hexosen aus der d-Ribose. Ber., 19x0, 43, 
3141-3x47. 

E. O. von Lippmann. Ein Vorkommen von d-GaUiktose. Ber., 19x0, 43, 361X-36X2. 

W. L5b. Zur Geschichte der chemischen Gdrungshypothesen. Biochem. Zeitsch., X9X0, 

39, 311-315. 
W. Lob und G. Pulvbrmachbr. Elektrolyse des Glycerins und des Glykols. Biochem. 

Zeits., 1909, 17, 343-355. 
W. Lob und G. Pulvbrmachbr. Zur Kenntnis der Zuckerspaltungen. Ueber die 

Zuckersynthese aus Pormaldehyd. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1910, 26, 231-237. 

W. Lob und G. Pulvbrmachbr. Zuckerspaltungen, VII, Die Umkehrung der Zucker- 
synthese. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1909, z^ 10-26. 

P. Mayer. Ueber Zerstorung von Traubenzucker durch Licht, Biochem. Zeitsch., X91X, 

J. U. Nbp. DissoMtationsvorgUnge in der Zuchergruppe, I., II., III., Verhalten der Zuck- 
erarten gegen Aetsalkalien. Amialen, X907, 357, 2x4-3x2; X9X0, 376, Z-X19; X9X4, 
403, 204-283. 

C. Nbubbro und J. Wohlgemuth. Ueber die Darstellung der dl-undUgalcictose, Zeit. 
physiol. Chem., X902, 36, 2x9-226. 

G. Pbircb. Heptoses. J. Biol. Chem., X913, 17, 35-36. 

E. Reiss. Die in den Samen als Reservestoff abgelagerte Cellulose und eine daraus 
erhaltene neue Zuckerart, die ** Seminose . Ber., X889, 22, 609-6x3. 

E. S. Steb^^b. Structure of crystalline fi-methyl fructoside. J. Chem. Soc, X918, 1x3, 

257-263- 
, B. Tollens und R. Gans. Quitten- und Salepschleim. Annalen, x888, 249, 245-257. 

F. W. Upson. Action of normal barium hydroxide on glucose and galactose. Amer. 

Chem. J., 1911, 45i 458-479- 

REFERENCES TO PENTOSES. 

W. Alberda van Ekenstein and J. J. Blanksma. Transformation of Uarabinose into 
\-ribose. Chem. Weekblad, X913, xo, 2x3. d-Ribose. Ibid., 664; X914, xx, X82. 
\4yxose. Ibid., X9X4, xx, 189. 

14* 



212 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

G. Bbrtrand. Reckifckes sur quelques dhivh du xylose. Bull. Soc Chim., 1891, 5, 

546-554- 
T. BoKORNY. AssimilatioH von Pentosen und Pentiten dutch PflanMen, Chem. Zeit., 

Z9IO, 34| 220-221. 

G. Chavannb. Quelques derives de VarahinoSe \acetohromo et acetochloro-araUnose]. 
Compt. rend., 1902, 154, 661-663. 

J. K. Dale. Bromoaeetylxyloseand fi-iriacetyl metkylxyloside, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1915, 

37. 2745- 
R. Fbulgrn. Carbohydrate group of the true nucleic acids, Zeitsch. physioL Chem., 

Z9i7« ZOO, 24Z-258. 

E. FiscHBR UND H. Herborn. Ober Isorhamnose, Ber., 1896, ap, 1961. 

. £. F18CHBR UND C. LiBBBRMANN. Ucbcr Chiuovose und Chinovit, Ber., 1893,. a6, 2415, 
2420. 

- E. FiscHBR UND J. Tafbl. OxydoHon der mehrwerthigen Alkdhole. Ber., 1887, ao, 
' Z088-Z094. 

-£. FiscHBR UND J. Tafbl. Oxydation des Glycerines, .1,-11, Ber., 1888, 2Z, 2634-2637; 
Z889, 22, Z06-Z10. 
' E. FiscHBR UND J. Tafbl. Ueber Isodulcit, Ber., z888, 2Z, 1657-1660 ; 2173-2176. 

E. FiscHBR AND K. Zach. CoHversion of d-Glucose into a methylfeutose, Ber., 19x2,45, 

3761-3773- 

A. GuNTHBR UND B. ToLLBNS. Ueber die Fukose^einen der Rhamnoscisomeren Zucker ous 

dem Seetang, Ber., 1890, 23, Z751-1752, 2585-2586. 

C. S. Hudson. Stereochemical eonftguration of fucose and rhodeose. J. Amer. Chem. 
Soc., 1911, 33, 405-410. 

C. S. Hudson and L. H. Chbrnopf. Methyltetronic acid and its amide, J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc., 1918, 40, 1005. 

. C. S. Hudson and J. K. Dalb. Triacetyl-d-xylose and ortriacetylmethyl-d-xyloside. J. 
Amer. Chem. Soc., 1918, 40, 997-1001. 

- H. KiLiANi. Die Zusammensetxung und Constitution der Arabinosecarbonsdure bexw, 
det Arabinose, Ber., 1887, 20, 282, 339-346. 

H. Kylin. Biochemistry 0/ sea-weeds, Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., 19x5, 94, 337-425. 

B. Lbobr. Sur VcUolnose ou sucre d'alotne, Compt. rend., 1910, 150, 983-986. 

E. Lbobr. Sur Paloinose cristallisS; son identiti avec Varabinose-d, Compt. rend., 19x0, 
150, 1695.X697. 

A. MuTHBR UND B. ToLLBNS. Dio Fucose und die Fuconsdure und die Vergleichung 

derselben mit der Rhodeose und Rhodeonsaure, Ber., X904, 57, 306-3x1. 

C. Nbubbro. Die Hampentose, ein optisch inactive, naturlich vorkommendes Kohlenhydrat, 

Ber., 1900, 33, 2243-2254. 

C. Nbubbro und J. Wohlgbmuth. Ueber d- Arabinose, d-Arabonsdure und die qucmtitative 
BesHmmung von Arabinose, Zeit physiol. Chem., 1902, 35, 31-40. 

E. PiNOFP. Studien ueber die Tollensche Phloroglucin-SalMsdure-Reaktion auf Pentosen, 
Ber., X905, 38, 766. 

C. Ravbnna b O. Cbrbsbr. SuU^ origine e sulla funsione fisiologica dei pentosans nelU 
piante, Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, 1909, [v], 18, ii, X77X83. 

B. Rayman. IsodulciU. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1887, [ii], 47, 668-677. 

O. Ruff, d- und dUArabinose, Ber., X899, 32, 550-560. 

E. SALKOWsn UND C. Nbubbro. Die Verwandlung von d-Glucuronsaure in \-Xylose, 
Zeit, physiol. Chem., X902, 36, 26X-267. 

C. SCHUL2B UND B. ToLLBNS. Uebor die Xylose und ihre Drehungserscheinungen, 

Annalen, 1892, 271, 40-46. 

C. 0*SULLIVAN. Gum tragacanth (\-Xylose), J. Chem. Soc., X90X, 79, x 164-1x85. 

B. ToLLBNS. Ueber den Nachweis der Pentosen mittelst der PhlorogluHn-Salxsaure- 
Methode, Ber., X896, 29, X202-1209. 

E. VoNOBRiCHTBN. ObcT ApUn und Apiose, Annalen, X90X, 3x8, X2X-X36. 

E. VoNGBRiCHTBN. Ueber Apiose, eine fi-Oxymethylerythrose, Annalen, X902, 32Z, 71-83. 

£. VoNGBRXCHTBN UND Fr. Mullbr. Apiose, Ber., X906, 39, 235-240. 

H. J. Whbblbr und B. Tollbns. Ueber die Xylose oder den Holxxucker, eine xweite 
Pentose. Annalen, X889, 254, 304. 

E. VotoSbk. Rhodeose, Chem. Centralblatt, X900, i, 803, 8x6 ; X901, i, X042 ; X902, ii, 
X36X. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 213 

E. VotoSbk. UehiT die Glykosidsduren des Convolvulins und die Zusammensetzung der 
token Isorhodeose. Ber., 1910, 45, 476-482. 

E. Voto£bk. IsO'Rhodeose. Ber., igiZi 44, 819-824. 

E. VotoSbk. Configuration der Rhodeose. Ber., 1910, 43, 469-475. 

E. VoTocBK. Derivatives of Rhodeose, Ber., 191 7, 50, 35-41. 

E. VoTOCBK AND C. Krauz. Epi-Rhodeose. Ber., 1911,44, 362-365. 

E. VoTOCEK UND H. N2mbSek. KineHsche Studien in der Zuckerreihe, Zeit Zuchertnd. 
Bdbm., 1910, 34, 237-248. 

E. Voto(5bk and R. Potmbsil. Pueitol. Ber., 1913, 46, 3653-3655. 

E. VotoSbk und R. Vondracbk. Zuckercomponenten des Jalapins und anderen Pflanzen- 
glucoside, Chem. Centralblatt, 1903, i, 884, 1035. 

REFERENCES TO CARBOHYDRATE ALCOHOLS. 

J. BouGAULT bt G. Allard. Sur la presence de la volemite dans quelques Primulacies. 
Compt. rend., 1902, 135, 796-797. 

E. Fischer. Ueher Adonit, einen neuen Pentit. Ber., 1893, 26, 633-639. 
^ E. Fischer. Ueber den Volemit, einen neuen Heptii, Ber., 1895, 28, 1973-1974. 
" E. Fischer. Galactitol, Ber., 1914, 47, 456. 
'" J. C. Irvine and B. M. Patbrson. Constitution of mannitoltriacetone, J. Chem. Soc., 
I9i4» lOS 898-915. 
J. C. Irvinb and B. M. Patbrson. Formation of ethers from mannitol. J. Chem. Soc, 

1914* los 915-933. 
J. C. Irvine and E. S. Steele. Effect of boric acid on the conductivity and specific 
rotation of methylated derivatives of mannitol, J. Chem. Soc., 1915, Z07, 122 1- 
1229. 

H. Kylin. Biochemistry of sea-weeds, Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., 1913, 839 171-197. 

L. Maquennb. Perseite. Compt. rend., 1888, xo6^ 1235-1238. 

L. Maquennb. Le poids moleculaire et sur la valence de la perseite, Compt. rend., 1888, 

X07i 583-58^. 
L. Maquennb. Synthase partielle de Verythrite gauche, Compt. rend., 1900, X30, 1402- 

1404. 

L. Maquennb et G. Bertrand. Sur les irythrites actives et racemique, Compt rend., 
1901, Z32» 1419- 1421, 1565-1567. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1901, 25, 740-745. 

E. Merck. Adonite, Arch..Pharm., 1893, 231, 129-131. 

A. MuNTZ ET V. Marcono. La Perseite^ matihre sucree, analogue d la mannite. Compt. 
fend., 1884, 99, 38-40. 

G. Pbirce. Heptitols, J. Biol. Chem., 1913, l% 35-36 ; 23, 327-337. 

O. Treboux. Starhebildung aus Sorbit bei Rosaceen, Ber. Deut. Bot. Ges., 1909, 27, 
507-511. 

C. Vincent et J. Meunier. Un nouveau sucre ciccompagnant la sorbite, Compt. rend., 
1898, 127, 760-762. 

REFERENCES TO THE CYCLOSES. 
R. J. Anderson. Phytin and phosphoric esters of inositol, J. Biol Chem., 1912, xz, 471- 

488; 1912, 12, 97'"3; 19141 17» ^71. 

M. Berthblot. Pinitol, Compt. rend., 1856, 41, 392. 

A. Contardi. Inositol hexaphosphaie, Gazetta, 1912, 42, [i], 408-418. 

L. Maquennb. Pinitol, Compt. rend., 1859, 109^ 812. 

H. MuLLBR. Occurrence of quercitol (quercite) in the leaves of Chamerofs humilis. 
Trans. Chem. Soc., 1907, 91, 1766. Cocositol {cocosite), a constituent of the leaves of 
Cocos nucifera and Cocos plumosa. J. Chem. Soc., 1907, 91, 1767- 1780. Inositol 
and some of its isomerides (scyllitol), J. Chem. Soc , 1912, ZOI, 2383-241 1. 
Inositol {inosite), J. Chem. Soc, 1907, 91, 1780-1793. 

C. Neubbro. Relation of the cyclic inositol to the aliphatic sugars. Biochem. Zeitsch., 
1908, 9, 551-556. 

F. B. Power and F. Tutin. A lavorotatory modification of quercitol, J. Chem. 

Soc, Z904, 85i 624-629. 



214 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

ScHBRBR. Colour Ttactions of the inositols. Annalen, 1850, 73^ 322. 
Stabdbler and Fribdrichs. On scylliiol. J. pr. Chem., 1858, 73, [ij, 48. 
C. Tanrbt. The Icevo- and racemic forms of inositol. Compt rend., 1889, 109, 908 ; 

1907, I45i 1 196. 
C. Tanrbt and Villibrs. Inactive forms of inositol. Compt. rend., 1877, 84, 393 ; 
1878, 86» 486. 

W. VoRBRODT. Pkytin and its derivatives. Bull. Acad. Sci., Cracow., 1910, A, 414-5 iz. 
E. WiNTBRSTBiN. Constitution of phytin. Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., 1908, 58, 118-121. 

REFERENCES TO DISACCHARIDES. 

A. Albkhine. Melesitose. Ann. Chim. Phys., 1889, [vi], 18, 532-551 ; J. Russ. Chem. 
Soc, 1889, 21, 407-421. 

A. Bau. Beitrdge sur Kenntniss der Melihiose, Chem. Zeit., 1897, 3x, 186; und 1902, 
a6, 69-70. 

G. Bbrtrand. Constitution de Vicianose: hydrolyse diastasique. Compt. rend., 19x0, 

151. 325-327. 
G. Bbrtrand bt A. Compton. Sur Vindividualiti de la eellase et de Vemulsine. Compt. 

rend., 1910, 151, 402-404. 

G. Bbrtrand bt A. Compton. Influence de la temperature sur Vactiviti de la eellase. 
Compt. rend., 19x0, 151, 1076- X079. 

G. Bbrtrand bt A. Compton. Influence de la recLction du milieu sur VacHvite de la 
eellase. Nouveau caractire distinetif d*avee Vemulsine. Compt rend., 19x1, 153, 
360-363. 

G. Bbrtrand and M. Holdbrbr. La eellase et le dkdouhlement diastasique du eellose. 
Compt. rend., X909, X49, X385-X387 ; X910, X50> 230-232. 

G. Bbrtrand bt G. Wbiswbillbr. Le Vicianose^ nouveau sucre reducteur en Cn. Compt. 
rend., X910, 150^ x8o-x82. 

G. Bbrtrand bt G. Wbiswbillbr. Le Constitution du vicianose et de la vicianine. 
Compt. rend., 1910, 151, 884-886. 

Em. Bourquelot. Les matiires suerees de quelques espeees de champignons. Compt. 
rend., X889, loB, 568-570. 

Em. Bourquelot. Les mati^es suerees chez les champignons. Compt. rend., 1890, xix, 

578-580. 
Em. Bourquelot. La repartition des matiires suerees dans les differentes parties du Cepe 

eomestihle (Boletus edulis. Bull.). Compt. rend., X892, xx^ 749-751* 

Em. Bourquelot. Sur un ferment soluble nouveau dedoublant le trihcdose en glucou, 
Compt. rend., X893, xx6, 826. 

A. J. Daish. Action of cold concentrated hydrochloric acid on starch and maliou. J. 
Chem. Soc., 1914, X05, 2053-2065. 

A. J. Daish. Velocity of hydrolysis of starch and maltose by cold concentrated and fuming 
hydrochloric aeid. J. Chem. Soc., 1914, XOS 2065-2073. 

W. S. Dbnham and H. Woodhouse. Trimethylglucose from cellulose, J. Chem. Soc., 

I9i7f 1". 244-249- 
E. Fischer and K. v. Fodor. Cellobial and hydrocellobial. Ber., 1914, 47» 2057-2063. 

£. Fischer und G. Zbmplen. Verhalten der Cellobiose und ihres Osons gcgen einige 
Enzyme. Annalen, 1909, 365* 1-6. 

E. Fischer und G. Zempl&n. Verhalten der Cellobiose gegen einige Enzyme. Annalen, 
1910, 373, 254.256. 

E. Fischer und G. Zbmplen. Derivate der Cellobiose. Ber., 1910, 43, 2536-2543. 

R. Foerg. Ueber die Glycolisierung von Biosen, Monatsh., 1903, 24, 357-363. 

J. GiAjA. Sur Visolement d*un sucre biose derivant de Vamygdaline, Compt. rend., X910, 

ISO, 793-796. 
P. Harang. Recherche et dosage du trehalose dans les vegitaux d Vaide de la trehalose. 

J. Pharm. Chim., 1906, 23, 16. 

E. R. VON Hardt-Strbmayr. Acetylderivate der Cellobiose. Monatsh., 1907, 28, 63-72. 

M. M. Harrison. Action of adds upon fructose and glucose, J. Amer. Chem. Soc, 19 14, 
36, 586.603. 

W. N. Ha worth and J. Law. Constitution of the disaecharides, J. Chem. Soc., X9X6, 
X09, 1314-1325. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 215 

C. S. Hudson. Inversion of sucrose by invertase, I., 11. J. Amer. Cbem. Soc., 1908, jOf 
1160-1166; 1564-Z583. 

C. S. Hudson and T. S. Harding. Preparation of melibiose, J. Amer. Chem. See, 

i9i5» 37» 2734-2736. 
F. Klein. Acetolytic degradation of cellulose, Z. angew. Chem., 19x2, 25, Z409-1415. 
L. Maqubnnb bt W. Goodwin. Cellose, Ball. Soc Chim., 1904, 31, 854-859. 

W. ScHLiBMANN. Ucher die Cellohiose und die Acetolyse der Cellulose. Annalen, 1911, 
378, 366-381. 

Z. H. Skraup. tfher Starke, Glyhogen und Cellulose. Monatsh., 1905, a6» 1415-1472. 

Z. H. Skraup und J. KdNto. Ueber die Cellobiose. Monatsh., 190Z, 22, 1011-X036. 
Ber., Z901, 54, 1 1 15- z 1x8. 

REFERENCES TO LACTOSE. 

H. BiBRRY BT J. GiAjA. Lc didoubUment diastasique, du lactose, du maltose et de leurs 
derives, Compt. rend., 1908, Z47t 268-270. 

A. Bodart. HeptacetylchlormilchMucker, Monatsh., X902, 23, z-8. 

R. Dittmar. Abkommlinge des MilchMuckers. Ber., Z902, 35, Z95Z-X953. 

DuBRUNPAUT. Milk-sugar. Compt rend., Z856, 42, 228-233. 

E. O. Eromann. Ueber wasserfreUn Milckxucker. Ber., z88o, 13, 2Z80-2184. 

E. Fischer and G. O. Curmb. Lactal and hydrolactal, Ber., Z9Z4, 47, 2047-2057. 

E. Fischer und H. Fischer. Derivate der Maltose, Ber., Z9Z0, 43, 2521-2536. 

E. Fischer und J. Mbybr. OxydaHon des MilchMuckers, Ber., Z889, 22, 36Z-364. 

W. N. Ha worth and G. C. Lbitch. Constitution of the disacchcarides Lactose and 
Melibiose. J. Chem. Soc., Z918, Z13, Z88-Z99. 

C. S. Hudson. Ueber die MultirotaHon des Milchsuckers, Zeit. physikaL Chem., Z903, 

44. 487-494- 
C. S. Hudson. The hydration of milk sugar in solution, J. Amer. Chem. Soc, Z904, 26, 

zo65-zo82. 

C. S. Hudson. Forms of lactose, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1908, 30, Z767-Z783. 

C. S. Hudson and F. C. Brown. Heats of solution of the three forms of lactose. J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc., Z908, 30, 960-97Z. 

C. S. Hudson and J. M. Johnson. The isomeric octacetates of lactose. J. Amer. Chem. 

Soc., 19Z5, 37, Z270-Z275. 

F. H. A. Marshall and J. M. Kirknbss. FormaHon of lactose. Biochem. J., Z906, 2, 

Z.6. 

D. NoBL Paton and E. p. Cathcart. On the mode of production of lactose in the 

mammary gland. J. Physiol., Z9ZZ, 42, Z79-z88. 

R. H. Adbrs Plimmbr. Presenceof lactase in the intestines of animals and the adaptation 
of the intestine to lactose. J. PhysioL, Z906, 35, 20-3 z. 

Ch. Porcher. Sur la lactophinylosatone. Bull. Soc Chim., Z903, 29, Z223-Z227. 

Ch. Porcher. Sur Vorigine du lactose. Compt rend., Z904, 138, 833-836; 924-926; 
Z457-Z459. 

Ch. Porcher. Sur Porigine du lactose, Compt rend., Z905, 140, 1279. 

Ch. Porcher. Sur Vorigine du lactose, Compt. rend., Z905, Z41, 73-75 ; 467-469( 

O. Rbinbrbcht. Lactose- und Maltosecarbonsdure, Annalen, Z892, 272, Z97-200. 

M. ScHMOBGER. Notig ubcr acetylirten Milchnucker und uber die im polarisirten Licht 
sich verschieden verhaltenden Modificationen des MilchMuckers, Ber., z892, 25, 

1452-1455. 
Z. H. Skraup und R. Krbmann. Ueber AcetochlormilchMucker, Monatsh., Z901, 22, 

375-384. 

B. ToLLBNS UND W. H. Kbnt. Untersuchuugcn Uber MilchMucker und Galactose, 

Annalen, Z885, 227, 22Z-232. 

H. Trey. Rotationserscheinungen der Laktose. Zeit. physikal. Chem., Z903, 46, 620-7Z9. 

REFERENCES TO MALTOSE. 

J. L. Baker and F. E. Day. The preparation of pure maltose. Report Brit. Aseoc. 
Dublin, Z908, 671-672. 

DUBRUNFAUT. LcGlucose, Ann. Chim. phys., Z847, [iii], 21, Z78-Z80. 






2i6 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

E. FiscHBR UND H. FiscHBR. DerivoU des Milchsuckers und der Maltose; und swd 
neue Glucoside. Ber., 191 o, 43, 2521-2536. 

E. Fischer und J. Mbybr. Oxydaiion der Maltose, Ber., 1889, 22, I94X-I943« 

R. FoBRG. Heptacetylchlormaltose. Monatsh., 1902, 23, 44-50. 

A. Herzfbld. Maltose. Annalen, 1883, 220, 206-224. 

C. S. Hudson and J. M. Johnson. The isomeric c^ and fi-octacetates 0/ maltose and eel- 
lose, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 19x5, 37, 1276-1280. 

W. KoBNios UND E. Knorr. Heptacetylmaltosenitrat und Heptacetyl-fi-meikylmaltosid- 
Ben, 1901, 34, 4343-4348. 

W. L. Lbwis and S. a. Buckborouoh. Structure of maltose aud its oxidation products 
with alkaline hydrogen peroxide. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1914, 36, 2385-2397. 

T. Db Saussurb. La decomposition de Vamidon a la temperature de Vatmosphere, par 
Paction de Voir et de Veau. Ann. chim. phys., 1819, 11, 379-408. 

G. ScHLiBPHACRB. Mutorotation der Maltose. Annalen, 1910, 377, 164-188. 

E. ScHULTZB. Maltose. Ber., 1874, 7, 1047-1049. 

C. O'Sulltvan. On the transformation products of starch. J. Chem. Soc., 1872, 25* 

579-588. 
C. 0*SuLLiVAN. On the action of malt-extract on starch. J. Chem. Soc., 1876, 30* 

125-144. 

REFERENCES TO TRISACCHARIDES. 

M. Bbrthelot. Quelques maiUres sucrSes. . Ann. Chim« phys., 1856, [iii], 46, 66-89. 

M. Bbrthblot. Les corps analogues au sucre decanne. Ann. Chim. phys., 1859, [iii], 55, 
269-296. 

Em. Bourqublot. Sur la physiologic du gentianose ; son didoublement par Us ferments 
solubles. Compt. rend., 1898, 126, 1045- 1047. 

E. Bourqublot bt M. Bridbl. Un sucre nouveau, le Verhascosct retire de la rdcine de 
moUne. Compt. rend., 1910, 151, 760-762. 

Em. Bourqublot bt H. HtfRissBV. Sur Vhydrolyse du milizitose par les ferments 
solubles. J. Pharm. Chim., 1896, 4, 385-387. 

. Em. Bourqublot bt H. H^rissby. Sur le gentiobiose et gentianose et les ferments 
solubles que dSterminent Vhydrolyse des polysaccharides. Compt. rend., 1901, X32, 

571-574 ; 1902, 13s 290-392, 399-401 ; 1903. 136, 7^764. 1 143-1146. 

Em. Bourqublot bt L. Nardin. Sur la preparation du gentianose, Compt rend., 
1898, Z26, 280. 

C. S. Hudson and S. F. Shbrwood. Occurrence of melexitose in a manna from the 

Douglas fir. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 19x8, 40, X456-1460. 

H. Kilianl Ueber die Formeln der Polysaccharide, Chem. Zeit., X908, 33, 366. 

J. Khouri. La presence du stachyose, mannotitrose et d^un glucoside didoublabU par 
VEmulsine dans Us parties souterraines de Veremostachys laciniata. J. Pharm. 
Chim., X9X0, [vii], 2, 2XX-213. 

E. VON Lippmann. du QuelU der in den Producten der Zuckerfabrikation enthaltenen 
Raffinose (Melitose). Ber., 1885, z8, 30S7-3090. 

D. LoiSBAU. Une nouvelle substance organique cristallisie [Raffinose"]. Compt. rend.i 

1876, 82, 1058- X060. 

L. Maqubnnb. La composition de la mielUe du Tilleul, Compt. rend., 1893, XZ7> 
Z27-129. 

A. Mbybr. Ueber Gentianose. Zeit. physiol. Chem., 1882, 6, 135-138. 

C. Nbubbro. Abbau der Raffinose xu Rohrzucker und Galaktose, Biochem. Zeit., Z907« 

3, 519. Zeit. ver. deut. Zuckerind., 1907, 615, 440-453. 
Pautz und Voobl. Ueber dU Einwirkung der Magen und DarmschUimhaut auf einige 

Biosen und auf Raffinose. Zeit. Biol., 1895, 32, 304. 
A. VON Planta und E. Schulzb. Bin neues krystallisbares KohUnhydrat, Stachyose, 

Ber., Z890, 23, 1692- X699 ; X89X, 24, 2705-2709. 

H. Ritthausbn. Melitose aus BaumwolUamen. J. pr. Chem., 1884, 29, 351-357* 
C. Schbiblbr. DU Abscheidung von Raffinose aus den RubenMuckermelassen, Ber , 1885 1 
z8, X409-X413. 

C. Schbiblbr. DU Zusammensetxung und einige Eigenschaften der Raffinose. Ber., 
1885, 18, X779-X786. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 217 

C. ScHBiBLBR. BHtrag Mur Kenntftiss d^r MiUtrioss, Raffinose, deren Nachwds und 
quantitative Bistimmttng fubsn Rohrsucksr. Ber., 1886, 19, 2868-2874. 

C. ScHBiBLBR UND H. MiTTBLMBiBR. DU Inversionspfoducts dsr Melitriose. Ber., 1889, 
22, 1678-1686. 

C. SCHBIBLBR UND H. MiTTBLMBiBR. WHtwi BHttdge MUT KsHntntss ier Melitriose 
und der MsUbiose, Ber., 1890, 23, 1438-Z443. 

E. ScRULZB. Zur Kenntniss der krystallisirtsn Stachyose. Landw. Versuchsstat., 1902, 

56, 419-423. 
E. ScHULZB. stocky osi und Lupeos4. Ber., 1910, 43, 2230-2234. 

B. ScHULZB UND Ch. Godbt. Untefsuckungen uher dU in dsn PJlanxgnsamen entkaltemn 

KohUnhydrats. Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., 1909, 6x, 279-351. 

C. O'SuLLiVAN. On the presence of ** raffinose** in barley. J. Chem. Soc., 1886, 49, 

70-74. 
C. Tanrbt. Sur deux sucres nouveaux retiris de la manne, le manniotitrose et le 
numninotriose. Compt. rend., 1902, Z34, 1586-1589. Bull. Soc. Chim., Z902, 27, 

947-963. 
C. Tanrbt. Sur le stachyose, Compt. rend., 1903, 136, 1569-1571. Bull. Soc Chim., 

1903, 29, 888. 

C. Tanrbt bt O. Tanrbt. Sur le rhamninose. Compt. rend., 1899, 129, 725-728. 

^ G. Tanrbt. MHexitose et turanose, Compt. rend., zgo6, 142, 1424-1426. 

^ B. ToLLBNS. Untersuchung von Melitose oder Raffinose aus Melasse, Baumwollsamen und 
Eucalyptus Manna, Annalen, 1886, ^32, 169-205. 

A. ViLLiBRS. Melitose, Ber., 1877, zo» 232-233. 

J. ViNTiLBSco. Uaction des ferments swr le stachyose, J. Pharm. Chim., 1909, 30, 
167-173. 

REFERENCES TO THE RELATION BETWEEN CONFIGURATION AND 

BIOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Busy me action. III. The influence of the products of 
change on the rate of change conditioned by sucroclastic enzymes, Proc. Roy. Soc., 

1904, 73i 516526. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Enstyme acticn, VIII. The mechanism of fermentation, 
Proc Roy. Soc, Z905, 76 B, 600-605. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. The nature of enzyme action, J. Inst. Brewing, Z905, zz, 

443-451. 
H. E. Armstrong. The nature of chemical change and the conditions which determine it, 

J. Chem. Soc, Z895, 67, 1136 [Z122-1172]. 

H. E. Armstrong and E. F. Armstrong. Enzyme action, X. The nature of enzymes. 
Proc. Roy. Soc, 1907, 79 B, 360-365. 

H. E. Armstrong, E. F. Armstrong and E. Horton. Enzyme action, XII. The 
enzymes of emulsin, Proc Roy. Soc, z9ol^, 80 B, 322-33 z. 

H. P. Barbndrbcht. Enzymwirkung, I., II. Zeit physikal. Chem., Z904, 49^ 456-482 ; 
1906, 54» 367-375. 
^ G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bactMe du sorbose sur les alcools plurivalents. Bull. Soc. 

Chim., Z898, [ill], Z9, 347-349; 947-948; 999-K>05. 
"" G. Bbrtrand. Stir le produit d*oxydation de la glycerine par la bactSrie du Sorbose, 
Compt. rend., Z898, Z26^ 842-844. 

^ G. Bbrtrand. Priparation biochimique de la dioxyacetone cristallisie, Compt. rend., 
Z898, Z26^ 984-986. 

^ G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bactSrie du Sorbose sur les sucres de bois, Compt rend., 
Z898, Z27, 124-Z27. 

G. Bbrtrand. Action de la bactcrie du Sorbose sur les sucres aldihydiques. Compt. rend., 
Z898, Z27, 728-730. 

^ G. Bertrand. La Bacthie du Sorbose, Ann. Chim. Phys., 1904, [viii], 3, z8z-288. 

H. Bibrry. Invertines et Uucases Animates, Leur specific, Compt rend., Z909, Z48» 
949-952. 

H. Bibrry. Dedoublement diastasique des a- et $-methyl-d'glucosides, Compt rend., 1909, 

I49» 314-316. 
H. Bibrry. Ferments digestifs du Manninotriose et de ses Derivis, Compt. rend., Z91Z, 

Z52, 465-467. 



2i8 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

H. BiBRRY. Fgrm€nU digestifs des H4xotrios4s $i du Stachyose. Compt rend., 1911, 152* 
904-906. • 

H. BiERRV. Action ofeuMymss on trisaccharides. Compt. rend., 1911, 152, 904. Bnsymic 
decomposition of glucosides and galactosides. Ibid.^ 1913, 1561 265-367. 

H. BiERRY BT J. GiAjA. Suf U dedoublcmcnt diastasique du lactose, du meUfose et de 
leurs derivh, Compt. rend., 1908, 147, 268-270. 

H. BxERRY BT A. Rang. Le dedoublement diastasique des dirivis du lactose. CompL 
rend., 1910, 150, 1366-1368. 

Em. Bourqublot. Generalitis sur les ferments solubles qui determinent Vhydrolyst eUs 
polysaccharides. Compt. rend., 1903, 136, 762-764. 

E. Bourqublot et M. Briobl. Action de VinverHne sur les polysaccharides derives du 

levulose. Compt. rend., 19x1, 153, 1060-X062. 

A« J. Brown. The chemical action of pure cultivations of bacterium acetu J. Chem. 
Soc., z886, 49, 172- 187. 

R. J. Caldwbll and S. L. Courtauld. Enwyme action. IX. The entymes of yeast 
— amygdalase. Proc. Roy. Soc, 1907, 79 B, 350-359. 

F. CzAPBK. Untersuchungen uber die Stickstoff gewinnung und Eiweissbildung der Schim- 

melpilze. Beitr. chem. Physiol. Path., 1902, 3, 47-66. 

W. A. Davis. The distribution of maltose in plants, Biochem. J., 1916, zo^ 31-48. 

A. J. Daish. The presence ofmaltase in foliage leaves. Biochem. J., X916, zo^ 49-55> 

F. Dienbrt. Sur la fermentation du galactose. Compt. rend., X899, Z28> 569-571 
6x7-6x8. 

F. DiBNBRT. Sur la secretion des diastases. Compt. rend., X899, ZJ9, 63-64. 

F. Dienbrt. Sur la fermentation du Galactose et sur raccoutumance des levures a ce 
Sucre. Ann. Inst. Pasteur, X900, Z4, X39-Z89. 

O. Emmbrlino. Zur Kenntniss des Sorbose bacteriums. Bet., 1899, 32, 54X-542. 

O. Emmbrlino. Das verhalten von Glycerinaldehyd und Dioxyacetone gegen Hefe. Ber., 

1899. » 542-544. 
E. Fischer. Einfluss der Konfiguration auf die Wirkung der Enzyme, I.-III. Ber., 1894, 

27, 2985-2993 ; 3479-3483 ; 1895. 28, X429-X438. 
E. Fischer. Bedeutung der Stereochemie fur die Physiologic. Zeit. Physiol. Chem., 

X898, 26, 60-87. 

E. Fischbr und p. Lindner. Ueber die Enzyme einiger Hefen. Ber., X895, 38, 984- 

986, 3034-3039. 
E. Fischer und W. Niebbl. Ueber das Verhalten der Polysaccharide gegen einige 

tierische Sekrete und Organe. Sitzungsber. K. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, X896, 73. 

E. Fischer und H. Thibrpeldbr. Verhalten der verschiedenen Zucher gegen reine 
Hefen. Ber., X894, 27, 2031-2037. ^ 

P. F. Frankland and J. J. Fox. Fermentation of mannitol and glycerol. Proc Roy. 

Soc, X889, 46, 345-357. 
P. F. Frankland and W. Frbw. A pure fermentation of mannitol and duUitol. 

J. Chem. Soc, X892, 6z, 254-277. 

P. F. Frankland and J. S. Lumsden. The decomposition of mannitol and dextrose by 
the Bacillus ethaceticus. J. Chem. Soc, 1892, 6l, 432-444. 

P. F. Frankland and J. MacGrbqor. The fermentation of arabinose by Bacillus 
ethaceticus. J. Chem. Soc, 1892, 6z, 737-745* 

P. F. Frankland, A. Stanley and W. Frew. Fermentations induced by the Pneumo- 
coccus of Friedldnder. J. Chem. Soc, X89X, 59, 253-270. 

E. C. Grey. Enzymes concerned in the decomposition of glucose and mannitol by Bacillus 
coli communis, II. and III. Proc Roy. Soc, 1918, 90 B, 75-106. 

A. Harden. The chemical action on glucose of the lactose fermenting organisms of the 
faces. J. Hygiene, 1905, 5, 488-493. 

A. Harden. The chemical action of Bacillus coli communis and similar organisms on 
carbohydrates and allied compounds, J. Chem. Soc, 1901, 79, 610-628. 

A. Harden and G. S. Walpole. Chemical action of bacillus lactis terogenes on glucose 
and mannitol. Proc. Roy. Soc, 1906, 77 B, 399-405. 

T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. On the probable existence of emulsin in yeast. Proc 
Roy. Soc, X905, 76 B, 568-580. 

A. VON Lebbdepf. Ueber Hexosephosphorsttureester, I, Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x0, 28, 
2x3-229. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 219 

A. VON Lkbbdbff. Uibtr HexosephosphorsUurMsisr, II. Btochem. Zeitsch., 19x1, 569 
248-260. 

A. VON Lebbdbpp. Sur le mecanisme ds la fermentation alcoolique, Compt. rend., x8ii, 

IS3» 136-139. 
P. A. Lbvbnb and G. M. Mbybr. Action of aseptic tissue on glucosone, J. BioL Chem., 

1915. 22, 337-339- 
L. LxNDBT. Sur le pouvoir ilectif des cellules vegetates vis-d-vis du dextrose et du Uvulose, 

Compt. rend., 1911, 152, 775-777' 
P. LiNDNBR AND K. Saito. AssinulahiHty of different carbohydrates by different yeasts. 

Chem. Soc. Abstr., 19x1, ii, 758. Woch. Braneri., 1910, 27, 509. 

H. TBR Mbulbn. Recherches experimentales sur la nature des sucres de quelques glucosides, 
Rec trav. Chim., X905, 24, 444-483. 

H. PoTTBViN. Influence de la configuration stereochimique des glucosides sur Vactivite 
des diasUues hydrolytiques. ^n. Inst. Pasteur, 1903, 17, 31. Compt rend., 1903, 
136, 169-17X. 

T. PuRDiB AND J. C. Irvine. The stereoisomeric tetramethyl methyl glucosides and tetra- 
methylglucose. J. Chem. Soc., X904, ^, i049-io7a 

E. Salkowski. Verhalten der Pentosen in Thierkorper. Zeit. physiol. Chem., X90X, 59, 

393-412- 
£. Sibburo. Behaviour of phenylhydroxylamine and its nitroso derivative in the body. 
Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., 1914, 92, 331-339. 

A. Slator. Chemical dynamics of alcoholic fermentation by yeast. J. Chem. Soc., 
1906, Spy 128-142. 

A. Slator. The factors which influence the rate of alcoholic fermentation. Brit. Assoc. 
Report, Dublin, 1908, 674-675. 

A. Slator. Studies in fermentation. Part II. The mechamsm of alcoholic fermentation. 
J. Chem. Soc, X908, 93, 217-241. 

A. Slator. Ueber Dioxy-aceton als Zwischenstufe der alkoholische Garung. Ber., 19x2, 

4& 43-46. 
G. Tamman. Die Reactionen der ungeformten Fermente, Zeit. physiol. Chem., 1892, x6^ 

27X-328. 

G. Tamman. Zur Wirkung ungeformter Fermente. Zeit. physikal Chem., X895, 28» 426. 

G. Tamman. Ueber die Wirkung d€r Fermente. Zeit. physikal Chem., X889, ^ 25-37. 

M. TiFFBNBAU. Destiny of chloralose in the organism and its relationships with the 
glucuronic configuration. Compt. rend., 19x5, z60) 38-4X. 



REFERENCES TO HYDROLYSIS OF DISACCHARIDES. 

E. Franklano Armstrono. Enzyme action. II. The rate of the change conditioned by 
sucroclastic enzymes and its bearing on the law of mcus action. Proc. Roy. Soc., 
19041 73» 500-516. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme action. V. Hydrolysis of isomeric glucosides and 
galactosides by acids and enzymes. Proc. Roy. Soc., X904, 74, 188-194. 

E. Frankland Armstrong and R. J. Caldwbll. Enzyme action. IV. and VI. The 
sucroclastic action of acids as contrasted with that of enzymes. Proc. Roy. Soc., 
1904, 73. 526-537; 74. 195-201. 

H. E. Armstrong and W. H. Glovbr. Enzyme action. XI. Hydrolysis ofraffmose by 
adds and enzymes. Proc. Roy. Soc., 1908, 80 B, 312-321. 

S. Arrhbnius. Die Reaktionsgeschwindigkeit bei der Inversion von Rohrzucker durch 
Sduren. Zat. physikal Chem., X889, 4, 226-248. 

A. J. Brown. Enzyme cution. [Velocity of inversion of cane sugar by inverteue.] 
J. Chem. Soc, X902, 8x, 373-388. 

H. T. Brown and S. Pickbring. Thermochemistry of carbohydrate hydrolysis. J. Chem. 
Soc., 1897, 71, 783-795. 

R. J. Caldwbll. Hydrolysis oj cane sugar by d- and l-camphor-fi-sulphonic acid. Proc. 
Roy. Soc, X904, 74, X84-X87. 

R. J. Caldwbll. The hydrolysis of sugars. [Contains a complete bibliography. "} Brit. 
Assoc. Report, York, 1906, 267-292. 

V. Hbnrl Influence du sucre inverti sur la Vitesse dHnversion par la sucrase. Compt. 
rend, Soc. Biol., 190X, 53, 288. 






220 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

C. S. Hudson. Invirston of Sucross by InvsrUus. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1908, 30, 1x60- 
1166, 1564-1583 ; 1909, 31, 655-664; 1910, 32, 774-779. 885-889, 985-989. 1220- 1222, 
1350-1357. 

E. Mbissl. Maltose. J. prakt Chem., 1882, 25, 1 14-130. 

J. Mbybr. Zur Theoris der RohrMuckerinversion. Zeitsch. physik. Cheixu, 1908, 63, 
59-88. 

W. OsTWALD. Dos eUktrische LHlungsvermogsn dsr SSuren, J. piakt. Chem., 1884, 50, 

93-95. 
W. OsTWALD. Dis Inversion des RokrMuekers, II. J. prakt. Chem., 1885, 31, 307-317. 

A. VON SiOMUND. Die Oeschwindigkeit der Maltose-Hydrolyse. Zeit. physikal Chem., 

1898, 37, 385-400. 
A. E. Taylor. Inversion of cane sugar and maltose by ferments. ]• Biol. Chem., 1909, 

5, 405-407- 
L. WiLHBLMY. Ueber das Oeseig, nach welchem die Binwirkung der Sduren auf den Rokr- 

sucker stattfindet : V., 1850. Pogg. Ann. Chem., 8z, 413, 499. Reprint Ostwald's 

Klassiker, No. 29. 

A. WoHL. Zur Kenntniss der Kohlenhydrate, I. Ber., 1890, 93, 2084-2110. 

F. P. WoRLBY. The hydrolysis of cane sugar by dilute acids, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1912, 87A 

555-563. 

REFERENCES TO SYNTHESIS OF MONOSACCHARIDES. 

A. Babybr. Ueber die Wasserentuiehung und ihre Bedeutungfur das Pflanzenleben und 
die Gdhrung, Ber., 1870, 3, 63-78. 

E. Baur. Bin Modell der Kohlensdureassimilation. Zeit. physikal Chem., 1908, 63. 
683-710. 

T. BOKORNY. Bmdhrung von grOnen PfUmxen mit Formaldehyd und formaldehydahspal- 
tenden Substannen. Biochem. Zeitsch., 19x1, 36, 83-97. 

H. T. Brown and O. H. Morris. On the germination of some of the gramutsa. 
J. Chem. Soc., X890, 57, 458-53 x. 

H. T. Brown and G. H. Morris. A contribution to the chemistry and physiology of 
foliage leaves. J. Chem. Soc, X893, 63, 604-683. 

A. BuTLBROW. Bildung einer Muckerartigen SubstanM dutch Synthese. Annalen, x86i, 
xao, 295-298. 

A. BuTLBRow. Formation synthetique {Tune substance sucree, Compt. rend., i86x, 53, 

145-147. 
A. V. Campbbll. The carbohydrates of the mangold leaf. J. Agric. Sci., 19x2, 4, 

248-259. 

H. Colin. Formation of sugar in the beet. Compt. rend., 19x4, 159^ 687. 

W. A. Davis. Bnsymic methods of analysis of sugars, J. Soc. Chem. Ind., X916, 20X. 

W. A. Davis, A. J. Daish and G. C. Sawybr. Formation and translocation of carbo- 
hydrates in plants. I., II. Carbohydrates of the mangold leaf, J. Agric. Science, 
X9X6, 7, 255-326; 327-351. III. Carbohydrates of the leaf and leaf stalks of the 
potato. Ibid., 352-384. 

H. Eulbr und a. Eulbr. Zur Kenntniss der Zuckerbildung aus Formaldehyd, Ber., 

1906, 39, 39-45. 
H. Eulbr und A. Eulbr. Ueber die Bildung von i-Arabinoketose aus Formaldehyd. Ber., 

1906, 39, 45-5 X. 

A. J. EwART. On the supposed extra-cellular photosynthesis of carbon dioxide by chloro- 
phyll. Proc. Roy. Soc., 1908, 80 B, 30-36. 

H. J. H. Fbnton. a new synthesis in the sugar group. J. Chem. Soc, X897, 71, 

375-383. 
H. J. H. Fbnton and H. Jackson. Crystalline glycollic aldehyde. J. Chem. Soc, X899, 

75. 575-579. 
H. J. H. Fbnton. Degradation of glycollic aldehyde, f. Chem. Soc, X900, 77, X294- 

X298. 

H. J. H. Fbnton. The reduction of carbon dioxide to formaldehyde in aqueous solution* 

J. Chem. Soc, 1907, 91, 687-694. ' 

. £. FiscMBR. Synthesen in der Zuckergruppe^ I., II., III. Ber., X890, 23* 2Xi4*2X4x; 
Z894, 27, 3x89-3232. Textbook, Berim, X909. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 221 

E. Fischer. Synthssi dir Mannosi und Lmvulose, Ber., zSgo, 23, 370-394. 
E. Fischer. Synthess dis TraubenMuckers. Ber., 1890, 23, 799-805. 
E. Fischer und F. Passmore. Bildung von Across aus Formaldehyde, Ber., 1889, 22, 
359-361. 
. E. Fischer und J. Tapel. Synthetische Versuche in der Zuckergrufpe, I.-III. Ber. 
'X887, 20, 2566-41575; 3384-3390; 1889, 22, 97-101. 

V. Grape. Untenuchungen uber das Verhalien gfuner PJUmzen mu gasfSrmigem FoT" 
maldehyd. Ber. Pent. Bot. Ges., 19x1, 29, 19-26. 

R. J. Harvey Gibson. A photoelectric theory of photosynthesis, Ann. of Botany, 1908, 
22, Z17-120. 

H. Jackson. CondensaHan of formaldehyde and the formation of fi-acrose, Proc. Camb. 
Phil. Soc., Z901, XI, XZ7. 

O. LoEW. Formaldehyd und dessen Condensation. J. prakt Chem., z886, [ti], 33, 321-351. 

O. LoEW. Bildung von Zuckerarten aus Formaldehyd, Ber., 1889, 22, 470-478. 

E. Mameli et G. Pollaci. Intomo a recenti ricerche sulla fotosintesi clorofilliana, 
Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, 1908, V., 17, i., 739-744. 

R. Meldola. Presidential address : problems of photosynthesis by growing plants, 
J. Chem. Soc, Z906, 89, 745-770. 

C. Neubero. Depolymerisation du Zuckerarten, Biochem. Zeit., 1908, 12, 337-341. 

J. Parkin. Carbohydrates of the snowdrop leaf and their bearing on the first sugar of 
photosynthesis, Biochem. J., 19x1, 0, x-47. 

J. Sachs. Ein/luss des Lichtes aufdie Bildung des Amylums in den ChlorophyllkSmem, 
Boil Zeit, X862, 20, 365-373. 

E. ScHMiTZ. Mechanism of the formation ofacrose, Ber., 19x3, 46, 2327-2335. 

S. B. ScHRYVER. The photochemical formation of formaldehyde in green plants, Proc. 
Roy. Soc., X9X0, » B, 226-232. 

S. Strakosch. Bin Beitrag tur Kenntnis des Kohlenhydratstoffwechsels von Beta 
vulgaris (Zuckerrube), Sitz. ber. K. Akad. Wiss. Wien., X907, iz6, 855. 

F. L. Usher and J. H. Priestley. A study of the mechanism of carbon assimilation in 

green plants, Proc. Roy. Soc., X906, 77 B, 369-376. 

F. L. Usher and J. H. Priestley. Mechanism of Carbon Assimilation^ III. Proc. Roy. 
Soc., X9XX, 84 B, IOX-XZ2. 

F. L. Usher and J. H. Priestley. The photolytic decomposition of carbon dioxide in 
vitro, Proc. Roy. Soc., X906, 78 B, 3x8-327. 

R. WillstXtter AND A. Stoll. The assimilation of carbon dioxide, Ih Baeyer^s Assimt' 
lotion Hypothesis, The connecting link in carbohydrate formation, Ber., X9X7, 50, 
X777-I79X. 

REFERENCES TO SYNTHESIS OF DISACCHARIDES. 

E. Frankland Armstrong. Enzyme action, VII. The synthetic action of acids eon^ 
trasted with that of enzymes. Synthesis of maltose and isomaltose, Proc. Roy. 
Soc., X905, 76 B, 592-599. 

^ E Bourquelot and A. Aubry. Biochemical synthesis of a galactobiose, Compt. rend., 
X9x6, t6i\, 60-62. Crystallisation and complementary properties of the gcuactobiose 
previousfy obtained by biochemical synthesis. Ibid., X9Z7, 164, 443-445. Bio- 
chemical synthesis f by means of emulsin, of a second galactobiose. Ibid., X9X7, 
164* 52X-523. 

^ E. Bourquelot, H. H^rissey and J. Coirre. Biochemical synthesis of gentiobiose, 
Compt. rend., X9X3, 157, 732-734- J. Pharm. Chim., X9X3, [vii], 8, 441-449* 
M. CuNNiNOHAic. A new form of methylgalactoside and its conversion into octamethyldi- 
galactose and into a methyldigalactoside. J. Chem. Soc., X9X8, zx^ 596-604. 

M. CuNNiNQHAM. Application of the auto-condensation powers ofy-sugars to the synthesis 
of carbohydrate complexes. J. Chem. Soc., X9X8, 11^ 604-607. 

O. Emmbrlino. Synthetische Wirkung der Hefemaltase, Ber., X90X, 34, 600-605, 2206- 
2207, 3810-38x1. 

^ E. Fischer. Synthese einer neuen Olucobiose. Ber., X890, 33i 3687-369X ; X895, 28, 3024- 
3028. 

«. E. Fischer und E. F. Armstrong. Synthese einiger neuer Disaccharide, Ber., X902,35i 

3144-3x53. 



.-I 

t 



222 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

E. F18CHBR UND K. Dblbruck. Synthes4 neuer Disacckandi von Typus der Trehalose, 
Ber., 1909, 43, 2776-2785. 

A. Harden and W. J. Young. Ths entymatic formation of polysaccharide by ytasi 
preparations. Biochem. J., I9i3» 7> 630-636. 

T. A. Hbnry and S. J. M. Auld. The probable existence of emulsin in yeast. Proc. 
Roy. Soc., 1905, 76 By 568-580. • 

R. O. Hbrzoo. On the action of emulsin. Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1903. 

6, 332-339- 
A. Croft Hill. Reversible zymohydrolysis. J. Chem. Soc., 1898, 73, 634-658. 
A. Croft Hill. Taka-diastase and reversed ferment action. Proc. Chem. Soc, 1901, 

X7. 184. 
A. Croft Hill. Synthetic action on dextrose with pancreatic ferment. Journ. of 

Physiol., 1903, 28, Proc. zzvi. 

A. Croft Hill. The reversibility of enzyme or ferment action. J. Chem. Soc., 1903, 

83. 578-598. 
A. Croft Hill. BemerkungxuO.Bmmerling. Synthetische Wirkung der Hefenmaltase. 

Ber., X90Z, 34, 1380. 

J. H. Van*t Hoff. Synthetische Fermentwirkung, I., II. Sitz. Ber. Akad. Wisa., Berlin, 
X909, 1065-1076 ; 29x0, 963-970. 

J. Pbklo. Vorkommen von StUrhe in der Zuckerriibenwurzel, Bied. Zentr., 19x1, 40^ 
386-387. 

H. PoTTBViN. Actions diastasiques reversibles* Formation et dedoublement des ethers-sels 
sous Vinfiuence des diastases du pancrias, Ann. Inst. Pasteur, 1906, 20, 901-923. 

R. A. RoBBRTSON, J. C. Irvinb and M. E. Dobson. a polarimetric study of the sucroclastic 
enzymes in Beta vulgaris. Biochem. J., 1909, 4, 258-273. 

L. R08BNTHALBR. Durch enzyme bewirkte asymmetrische Synihesen, I., II. Biochem. 
Zeitsch., 1908, 14, 238-253 ; 1909, 17, 257-269. 

W. Schnbidbr and F. Wrbdb. Synthesis of ^saccharides containing sulphur and 
ulenium. Ber., 19x7, 50, 793-804. 

A. W. VissBR. Redktionsgeschwindigknt und chemisches Gleichgewicht in homogenen 
Systemen und deren Anwendung auf Bnzymwirkungen. Zeit. physilcal Chem., 
19051 » 257-309. 

A. WoHL. Zur Kenntniss der Kohlenhydrate. Ber., X890, 23, 2084-21 10. 

G. Zbmplbn. Gentiobiose. Ber., X9X5, 48, 233-238. 

REFERENCES TO GLUCOSIDES. 

G. Bbrtrand and G. Wbisswbillbr. Constitution of vicianose and vicianin. Compt. 
rend., 19x0, 151, 884-886. 

L. BouRDiBR. La presence de " l*aucubine " dans les diffirentes espUes du genre Plantago. 
J. Pharm. Chim., X907, [vi], a6, 254-266. 

Elf. Bourqublot and M. Bridbl. Action of emulsin on gentiopicrin in alcohol. J. 
Pharm. Chim., X9XX, [vii], 4, 385-390. 

Em. Bourqublot bt A. Fichtbnholz. Arbutine et mithylarbutine. Caracthres^ distinction 
et recherche dans les vegitaux. J. Pharm. Chim., X9X0, [vii], z, 62-66, X04-109. 

Em. Bourqublot bt A. Fichtbnholz. Le glucoside des feuilles depoirier. Compt. rend., 

X910, 151, 81-84 ; i9"» XS3, 468-471- 
Em. Bourqublot bt A. Fichtbnholz. Le glucoside des feuilles depoirier; son rdle dans 

la production des teintes automnales de ces organes. J. Pharm. Chim., X9xz, [vii], ^ 

5-13. 
Em. Bourqublot bt A. Fichtbnholz. Sur la presence de I* arbutine dans les feuilles du 

Grevillea robusta. Compt. rend., 19x2, Z54« xxo6-xio8. 

Em. Bourqublot bt H. H6rissby. Action de Vemulsine de ^Aspergillus niger sur 
quelques glucosides. Bull. Soc. Mycol., X896, iz, X99. 

Em. Bourqublot bt H. Herissby. Sur Vaucubine, glucoside de VAucuba japonica. 
Ann. Chim. Phys., X905, [viii], 4* 289-3x8. 

Em. Bourqublot bt H. Herissby. L^arbutine et quelques-uns de ses derivis, considires 
au point de vue de leur poUvoir rotatoire et leur didoubUment par Vemulsine. 
Compt. rend., 1908, Z46, 764-766. 

Em. Bourqublot bt J. Vintilbsco. L^oleuropHne^ nouveau principe de nature gluco- 
sidique retir^ de VOlivier (Olea europaa^ L.). Compt. rend., X908, Z47, 533-535. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 223 

M. Bridbl. La Meliatinet nouveau glucoside, hydroly sable par Vemulsinef reiiri du 
Trefle d'eau. Compt. rend., 191 1, 152, 1694-1696. 

M. Bridbl. Occurrence of gentiopicrin in Geniiana and Swertia spp. Compt. rend., 19x2, 
153, 1029-1031, 1164; 1913, 156, 627-629. J. Pharm. Chim., 1913, [vii], 7, 289-292, 
392-395, 481-4841 486-492 ; 1914* [vii], 10, 62-66. 

M. Bridbl. Gentiacaulin. J. Pharm. Chim., 1914, [vii], 10, 329-335' 

C. Charaux. Occurrence of frcucin in Diervilla lutea. J. Pharm. Chim., 1911, [vii], 4, 
248-250. 

L. Danzbl. Aralin, a glucoside of Aralia japonica. J. Pharm. Chim.j 1912, [vii]. 5, 

530-534. 
E. Fischer. Ueber einige Derivate des Helicins. Bet,, 1901, 34, 629-631. 

E. FiscHBR UND W. VON LoBBBN. Ucber die Verbrennungswdrme einiger Glucoside. 
Sitzungsber. K. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, 1901, 323-326. 

J. Gadambr. Les glucosides des moutardes noire et blanche. J. Pharm., 1896, 4, 462. 

H. H^RissBY. PrhparaHon de VArbutine vraie. Compt. rend., 19x0, 151, 444-447. J. 
Pharm. Chim., 19x0, [vii], 2, 248-253. 

H. Herissby bt C. Lbbas. Presence de Vaucubine dans piusieurs espices du genre 
Garrya. J. Pharm. Chim., 18x0, 2, 490-494. 

H. Hlasiwbtz und J. Habbrmann. Das Arbuiin, Ann. Chem. pharm., 1875, 177, 

334-343. 
H. A. D. JowBTT AND C. E. PoTTBR. Variations in the occurrence ofsalicin and salinigrin 
in different willow and poplar barks. Pharm. J., X902, August x6. 

A. Kawalibr. Untersuchung der Bldtter von Arctostaphylos uva ursi. Ann. Chem. 
Phann., 1852, 84, 356-360. 

Y. KoTAKB AND Y. Sera. Lycoperdin, a new glucosamine compound, and the composition 
ofchitin. Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., 1913, 88, 56-72. 

C. LiBBBRMANN UND O. HoRMANN. Die Farbstoffe und den Glycosidxtuker der Gelb- 
beeren. Annalen, 1879, 196, 299-338. 

E. O. LippMANN. Der Zucker des Populins. Ber, X879, Z2, x648-x649. 

C. Mannich. Arbutin and its synthesis. Arch. Pharm., 19 12, 250, 547-560. 

G. Masson. Chemical composition of Dulccunara, and solacein. Bull. Sci. Pharm., 19x2, 
19, 283-289. 

F. Marino-Zuco and V. Pasqubro. Clavicepsin, a new glucoside from Secale comutum. 

Gazzetta, 191 1, 41, [ii], 368-374. 

H. TER Mbulbn. Sur quelques glucosides contenant des senivols. Rec. trav. Chim., 
1900, 19, 37-45. 

G. Oddo and M. Cbsari^. Solanine extracted from Solanum sodomaum. Gazzetta, 19x1, 

4l» Hi 490-534 ; 1914. 44» P]. 680-696; X914, 44, [ii], x8x-2o8. 
R. PiRiA. Untersuchungen fiber das Salicin. Ann. Chem. Pharm., 1845, 56, 35-77. 
R. PiRU. Das Populin. Ann. Chem. Pharm., X852, 8z, 245-247; 1855, 9^ 375-383* 
P. B. Power and A. H. Salway. Constituents of the leaves and stems of Daviesia lati- 
folia. J. Chem. Soc, 19x4, X05, 767-778. Dibenzoylglucoxylose : a natural 

benzoyl derivative of a new disaccharide. Ibid., X914, Z05, xo62-xo69. 

E. H. Rbnnib. On Phloridxin. J. Chem. Soc., X887, 51, 634-637. 

C. Rbichard. Glucoside reactions : convallamarin and convallarin. Pharm. Zeit., 191 x, 
52, X83-X88. 

H. ScHiFF. Constitution Arbutins. Ann. Chem. Pharm., x88o, ao6, X59-X67. 

H. ScHiPF UND G. Pbllizzari. MethylarbuHn, Bensylarbutin und Benzyldioxy benzole. 
Annalen, 1883, 22Z, 365-379. 

W. Schnbidbr and W. Lormann. The glucoside ofcheirolin. Ber., 19x2, 45, 2954-296X. 

W. Schneider and L. A. SchUtz. Mustard oil glucosides. II. Glucocheirolin. Ber^ 
X913, 46, 2634-2640. 

W. Schneider and F. Wrbdb. Mustard oil glucosides. V. Constitution of sintgrin. 
Ber., X9X4, 47, 2225-2229. 

W. Schnbidbr. Mustard oil glucosides. III. and IV. Synthetic glucosides from thio- 
urethanes. Ber., X9X4, 47, X258-X269, 2218-2224. 

E. Schulzb und G. Trier. Identitdt des Vemins und des Guanosins nebst Binigen 
Bemerkungen fiber Vicin und Convicin. Zeitsch. physiol. Chem., X9xx,70, 143-151. 

Schunck. On rubin and its products of decomposition. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc., X85X, 433. 



224 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

ScHUNCK. Btythrosynu, Phil. Trans., 1853, 74. 

E. Sbbl and C. Kblbbr. MoUcular weight and oxidation products ofaloin. Ber«, 19x6, 

49, 2364-2368 ; 1917, 50, 759-764- 
E. SiBBURO. HelUborein. Arch. Phann., 1913, 251, 154-183. 
Spatzibr. Ueber das Auftrtten und dis physiologischi Bgdeutung des Myrosins in der 

Pfiante, Pringsheim's Jahrb., 1893, ^S 39- 
A. Strbckbr. Das Arbutin und siine Vitwundlungsn. Ann. Chem. Pharm., 1858, Z07, 

228-234. 

P. TiBMANN. VaniUinsHurs. Bet., 1875, 8y 509-5x5. 

P. TiBMANN. ConiferyUUkohol, dcu bd Einwirkung von Bmulsin auf Coniferin neben 
Traubenxucker entsteh$nd$ Spaltungsprodukts sowie Aithyl und Methyl vanillin. 
Ber., 1875, 8, XX27-IX36. 

P. TiBMANN. Die der Comferyl und Vanillin Reihe angehorigen Verbindungen. Ber., 

1876, 9, 409-423. X278-1284. 
P. TiBMANN. Glucovanillin und Glueovanillylalkohol. Ber., X885, z8, X595-X600. 

P. TiBMANN AND W. Haarmann. Dos Coni/eriu und seine Umwandlung in das 
aromatische PrinHp der Vanille. Ber., 1874, 7, 608-623. 

P. TuTiN. Constituents of semta leaves (Kampferin). J. Chem. Soc., 19x3, Z03« 
2006-2023. 

P. TuTiN AND H. W. B. Clbwbr. Constituents of Solanum Angustifolium : isolation of a 
new gluco-€Ukaloid, solangustine. J. Chem. Soc, 1914, Z05, 559-576. 

E. VotoSbk. Ueber die GhkosidsAuren des Convolvulins und die ZusammensetMung der 
rohen Isorhodeose. 6er., 19x0, 43, 476-482. 

A. ViBHOBVBR, G. A. Obiobr and C. O. Johns. Cedrin, a glucoside ftom the seeds of 
Simaba Cedron. J. Biol. Chem., X916, 24. 

REPERENCES TO BIOCHEMICAL DETECTION OP GLUCOSIDES. 

^ Em. Bourqublot. Recherche dans les vegetaux du sucre de canne d Vaide de VinverHne et 
des glucosides d Vaide de VSmulsien. J. Pharm. Chim., 1901, 14, 48 x. 

Em. Bourqublot. Sur VempUn des enzymes comme riactifs dans les recherches de labora- 
toire. (Contains a bibliography.) J. Pharm. Chim., 1906, 34, 165; X907, 35, 16 
et 378. 

Em. Bourqublot and Mllb. A. Pichtbnholz. Application of the method to Kalmia 
laHfolia and identijication of the glucoside. Compt. rendl, X912, Z54, X500-X502 ; 
526-528. J. Pharm. Chim., 19x2, (vii), 5, 49-58; 296-300. 

^ Em. Bourqublot and Mllb. A. Pichtbnholz. Application of the biochemical method 
to the detection of sucrose and glucosides in certain Ericacea, J. Pharm. Chim., 
X9X3, (vii), 8, X58-X64. 

Em. Bourqublot and Mllb. A. Pichtbnholz. Glucosides hydrolysable by emulsin in 
some papilionaceous and scrofulannaceous plants. J. Pharm. Chim., X915, (vii) zz, 
219-226. 

- Em. Bourqublot and M. Bridbl. Biochemical investigation of the glucosides hydrolysable 
by emulsin, in indigenous Orchidacea. J. Pharm. Chim., 19x4, (vii) zo, X4-18, 66-72. 

M. Bridbl. Application of the biochemical method to Gentiana acaulis ; isolation of a new , 
glucoside, gentiacaulin. J. Pharm. Chim., X913, (vii), 8, 241-250. Appiicatum of' 
the biochemical method to the examination of the stone-kernels of the cherry laurel. 
Ibid., X9X5, (vii), Z2, 249-252. 

C. Lbfbbvrb. Anwendung der biochemischen Methode Mum Nachweis der Zuckerarten und 
der Glykoside in den Pflanzen und der Pamilie der Taxinen. Arch. Pharm., X907, 
^5f 493-502. J. Pharm. Chim., 1907, 26, 24x^54. 

REPERENCES TO OXYPLAVONE GLUCOSIDES. 

J. Hbrzxo and R. ScHdNBACH. Mcthylotion of glucosides {quercitrin). Monatach, X9X2, 
33, 673-680. 

N. KRA8OV8KI. Rhamnoxanthin and frangulin from Rhamnus spp, J. Russ. Phys. Chem. 
Soc, X9X3, 45, X88.193. 

Hugo Mullbr. The occurrence of flavone as the farina of the primula, J. Chem. Soc, 

19151 I07» 872-878. 
A, G. Pbrkin. Quercetagetin. J. Chem. Soc, 1913, Z03, 209-2x9. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 225 

A. G. Pbrkin. Gossypetin. Trans. Chem. Soc., 1913, Z03, 650-662. 

A. G. Pbrkin. Thujin, J. Chem. Soc., 19 14, Z05, 1408. 

A. G. Pbrkin. The colouring matter of cotton flowers^ III. J. Chem. Soc., 1916, Z09, 

145-154- 
£. Schmidt. Zur Kenntnis dez Rhamnoside. I. Rutin. II. Sopkorin, III. Cappem^ 
Rutin, IV. Rolnnin. Arch. Pharm., 1904, 242, 2x0-224. 

Y. Shibata and Naqai. Flavone derivatives in plants. J. Biol. Chem., 1916, 28, 93-Z08. 

Physiol. Abstr., 19 18, 3, 68-69. 
Ch. bt G. Tanrbt. Sur la rhamninase et la xantkorhamnine. Bull. Soc. Chim., 1899, 

ax, 1073. 
M. Whbldale and H. L. Bassbtt. The chemical interpretation of some mendelian factors 

for flower colour. Proc. Roy. Soc, 1914, 87 B, 300-311. 
R. WiLLSTATTBR AND A. E. EvBRBST. Ucber den Farbstoffder Komhlume. Ann., 1913, 

40Z, 189-232. 
R. WiLLSTATTBR UND E. K. BoLTON. Ueber den Forbstoff def Schorlochpelargonie. Ann., 

19x51 408, 42-61. 
R. WiLLSTATTBR UND H. M ALLISON. UebeT den Forbstoff der Preiselbeere. Ann., 19151 

4«^, 15-41- 
R. WillstXttbr UND K, Martin. Ueber den Forbstoff der Althaa rosea. Ann., 1915, 

408, IZO-Z2I. 

R. WiLLSTATTBR UND W. MiBO. Ueber ein anthocyan des Bittersporus. Ann., 1915, 408, 
61-82. 

R. WillstXttbr UND W. MiBO. Ueber den Farbstoffder wilden Malve. Ann., 1915, 408, 
122-135. 

R. WiLLSTATTBR UND T. J. NoLAN. Ueber den Forbstoff der Rose. Ann., 1915, 408, 1-14. 

R. WillstXttbr und E. H. Zollinqbr. Ueber den Forbstoff der Weintraube und des 
Heidelbeere. Ann., 1915, 408, 83-109. 

REFERENCES TO AMYGDALIN. 

S. J. M. AuLD. The hydrolysis of amygdalin by emulsin, I., II. J. Chem. Soc, 1908, 
93, 125Z-1281. 

R. J. Caldwbll AND S. L. CouRTAULD. The hydrolysis of amygdalin by acids. J. Chem. 
Soc, 1907, 9Z, 666-671. 

R. J. Caldwell and S. L. Courtauld. Mondelonitrile glucosides. Prulaurasin. 
J. Chem. Soc, 1907, 9Z, 671-677. 

H. D. Dakin. The fractional hydrolysis of amygdalinic acid. isoAmygdalin, J. Chem. 
Soc, 1904, 85» 15x2-1520. 

K. Fbist. Die Spaltung des Amygdalins unter dem Einfluss von Emulsin. Arch. Pharm., 
X908, 246, 206-209. Optisch aktive BenMoldehydcyanhydrine. Ibid., X909, 247, 226- 
232. Zersetzung von Amygdalin. Ibid., 1909, 247, 542-545. Spaltung racemischer 
Cyanhydrine durch Emulsin. Ibid., 1910, 248^ 101-104. 

E. FiscHBR. Einfluss der Configuration auf die Wirkung der Enzyme. Ber., 1894, 27, 
2985-2993. 

« £. FiscHBR. Ueber ein neues, dem Amygdalin dhnliches Glucosid. Ber., 1895, 28, 1508- 

1511. 
% E. FiscHBR UND M. Bbrqmann. Synthese von Mandelonitril glucosid und Sambunigrin, 

Ber., 19 17, 50, X047-X069. 

G. GiAjA. Sur Visolement d'un sucre biose dirivant de Vamygdaline. Compt. rend., 19x0, 

iSo» 793-796. 

H. HtRissBY. Etude comparie de Vemulsine des amandes et Vemulsine d* Aspergillus niger. 
Bull. Soc Biol., X896, 640. 

JoHANSBN. Sur la localisation de Vimulsine dans les amandes. Ann. Sci. Nat. (Bot.), 

Z887, 6» X18. 
J. LiEBiG UND F. WoHLBR. Die Bildung des Bittermandelols. Annalen, X837, 22, 1-24. 

J. LiBBio UND F. WoHLBR. Sur lo formation de Vhuile d^ amandes amires. Ann. Chim. 
phys., 1837, 64, 185-209. 

H. LuDWio. Eigenthumliche Pflanzenstoffe. Jahresbericht, 1856, 679. 

RoBiQUET BT BouTRON. Les Amondcs amires et Vhuile volatile qu'elles foumissent. 
Ann. Chim. phys., 1830, 44, 352-382. 

15 



226 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

L. RosBNTHALER. Amygdalin. Arch. Pharm., 1908, 245, 684-685. Die Spaltung tUs 

Amygdalins unter dem Ein/luss von Emulsin. Ibid., 1908, 246^ 365-366, 710 ; 1910, 

248, 105-112, 534-535. 
L. RosBNTHALER. Distribution 0/ amygdalin. Arch. Pharm., 1912, 250, 298-301. 
H. ScHiFP. Die Constitution des Amygdalins und der Amygdalinsdure. Annalen, 1870, 

I54> 337-353. 
Thom^. Ueber das Vorkommen des Amygdalins und des Emulsins in den bittern Mandeln, 

Bot. Zeit., 1865, 240. 

Thomson and Richardson. Ueber die Zersetzung des Amygdalins durch Emulsin, Ann. 
de Pharm., 1839, 29, 180. 

F. TuTiN. isoAmygdalin and the resolution of its hepta-ctcetyl derivative, J. Chem. See, 

1909, 95, 663-668. 

A. ViEHORVBR, C. O. Johns, and C. L. Alsbbrb. Cyanogenesis in Plants, Tridens flavens. 
J. Biol. Chem., 1916, 25, 141- 150. 

J. W. Walker. The catalytic racemisation of amygdalin. J. Chem. Soc., 1903, 83* 

472-479. 

J. W. Walker and V. K. Kribblb. The hydrolysis of amygdalin by acids, J. Chem. 

Soc., 1909, 9S 1369-1377. 
J. W. Walker and V. K. Krieblb. The amygdalins. J. Chem. Soc., 1909, 95, 1437- 

1449. 

REFERENCES TO CYANOPHORIC GLUCOSIDES. 

G. Bertrand. La vicianine^ nouveau glucoside cyanhydrique contenu dans les graines de 

Vesce. Compt. rend., 1906, 143, 832-834. 

G. Bertrand bt L. Riokind. La repartition de la vicianine et de sa diastase dans les 
graines de Legumineuses, Compt. rend., 1906, 143, 970. 

G. Bertrand und G. Weiswbillbr. La constitution de la Vicianine, Compt. rend., 
1908, 147, 252-254. 

Em. Bourquelot bt Em. Danjou. Sur la scunbunigrine, glucoside cyanhydrique 
nouveau retire des feuilles du sureau noir. Compt. rend., 1905, 14X1 59-61 ; 
598-600. 

W. R. DuNSTAN AND T. A. Henry. Chemical aspects of cyanogenesis in plants. Brit 
Assoc. Report, York, 1906, 145-157. 

W. R. DuNSTAN AND T. A. Henry. The nature and origin of the poison of Lotus 
Arabicus, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1900, 67, 224; 1901, 68, 374-378. Phil. Trans. Roy. 
Soc., 1901, 194 B, 515-533. 

W. R. Dunstan and T. A. Heniy. Cyanogenesis in plants. II. The great millet. 
Sorghum vulgare. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc., 1902, 199 A, 399-410. 

W. R. Dunstan and T. A. Henry. III. Phaseolunatint the cyanogenetic glucoside of 
Phaseolus lunatus. Proc. Roy. Soc., 1903, 72, 285-294. 

W. R. Dunstan, T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. Cyanogenesis. IV. Occurrence of 
Phaseolunatin in common flax, V. Occurrence of phaseolunatin in ccusava. Proc. 
Roy. Soc, 1906, 78 B, 145-158. 

W. R. Dunstan, T. A. Henry and S. J. M. Auld. Cyanogenesis. VI. Phaseolunatin 
and the associated enzymes in flax, cassava and the lima bean. Proc. Roy. Soc., 
1807, 79 B, 315-322. 

T. H. Eastbrpield and B. C. Aston. Corynocarpin, a glucoside occurring in the kernels 
of the Karaka fruit. Proc. Chem. Soc, 1903, 19, 191. 

M. Grbshofp. The distribution of prussic acid in the vegetable kingdom. Report Brit. 
Assoc, 1906, 138-144. 

L. GuiGNARD. Sur la localisation dans les plantes des principes qui fournissent Vacide 
cyanhydrique, Compt. rend., 1890, no, 477. 

L. GuiONARD. Sur la localisation dans les amandes et le lauriercerise des principes qui 
fournissent Vacide cyanhydrique. Journal de Botanique, 1890, 4, 3. 

L. GuiGNARD. Sur Vexistence dans le sureau noir d'un compose fournissent de Vacide 
cyanhydrique, Compt. rend., 1905, 141, 16-20, 448-452. 

L. GuiGNARD. Sur la metamorphose des glucosides cyanhydriques pendant la germination. 
Compt. rend., 1908, 147, 1023-1038. 

L. GuiONARD ET J. HoNDAS. Sur la nature du glucoside cyanhydrique du sureau noir. 
Compt. rend., 1905, 141, 236*238. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 227 

L. GuiONARD. La formaiian et Us variaHaus quaniitative du Principe cyanhydriqut du 
sureau noir, Compt rend., 1905, 141, 1193-1201. 

L. GuiQNARD. Nouveaux sxemples de Rosacies a acide cyanhydfiqtu. Compt. rend., 
1906, 143, 451-458. 

L. GuiONARD. La metamorphose des glucosides cyanhydriques pendant la germination. 
Compt rend., 1908, 147, 1023-1038. 

H. Hhrissby. La Prulaurasine, glucoside cyanhydrique cristallise^ retiri des feuilles de 
Laurier-cerise. Compt. rend, 1905, 141, 959-961. 

H. HiRissBY. Da^ Prulaurasin, das BlausUure liefernde Glycosid der Blatter von Prunus 
laurocerasus. Arch. Pharm., 1907, 2451 463-468, 473-474. 

H. HHRISSBY. L^Existence de la " Prulaurasin " dcuts le Cotoneaster microphylla Wall, 
J. Pharm. Chim., 1906, [vi], 24, 537-539. 

H. HHRISSBY UND Em. Bourquelot. Die Isomerie bei den Blausaure liefemden 
Glykosiden Sambunigrin und Prulaurasin. Arch. Pharm., 1907, 245, 474-480. 

H. HHRISSBY. Das Vorkommen von Amygdonitrilglyhosid in Cerasus Padus Delarb. 
Arch. Pharm., 1907, 245, 641-644. 

A. W. K. DB JoNO. La decomposition de la gynocardine par Venzyme des feuilUs de 
pangium edule. Rec. trav. Chim., 1911, 30k 220-221. 

A. JoRissBN. Recherches sur la formation de I* acide cyanhydrique. Bull. Acad. Roy. 
Belg., 1910, 224-233. 

J0RI8SBN BT Hairs. La linamarinef nouveau glucoside foumisseni de V acide cyan- 
hydrique par dedoublement. Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg., 1891, 2Z, 529. 

C. W. MooRB AND F. TuTiN. Note on gynocardin and gynocardase. J. Chem. Soc., 
1910, 97, 1285-1289. 

F. B. PowBR AND F. H. Lbes. Gynocardin^ a new cyanogenetic glucoside. J. Chem. 
Soc., 1905, 87, 349357. 

F. B. PowBR AND C. W. MooRB. The constituents of the bark of Prunus serotina. Isola^ 
tion of X-mandelonitrile glucoside. J. Chem. Soc., 1909, 95, 243-261. 

C. Ravbnna b M. Tonboutti. Alcune osservazioni sulla presenza delV acido cianidrico 
libero nelle piante. Atti. R. y\.ccad. Lincei, 1909, [v], 19, ii., 19-25. 

C. Ravbnna b M. Zamorani. Sulla formazione delV acido cianidrico nella germinazione 
dei sensi. Ibid., 356-361. 

Trbub. Sur la localisation^ le transport et le rdle de Vacide cyanhydrique dans le Pangium 
edule, Ann. du Jardin. hot. de Buitenzorg, 1895, 13, i. 

REFERENCES TO INDICAN. 

C. Bbrothbil. The fermentation of the indigo-plant. J. Chem. Soc., 1904, 85, 870-892. 

W. Bbybrinck. On the fermentation of indigo from the woad (I satis tinctoria.) Proc. K. 
Akad. Wetensch.i Amsterdam, 1900, 2, 120-129. 

W. Bbybrinck. Further researches on the formation of indigo from the woad {Isatis 
tinctoria). Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam., 1900, 3, ioz-116. 

J. J. Hazbwinkbl. Indican — its hydrolysis and the enzyme causing the same. Proc. K. 
Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 2, 512-520. 

S. Hooobwbrpp bt H. tbr Mbulbn. Indican. Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amster- 
dam, 1900, 2, 520. 

S. Hooobwbrpp bt H. tbr Mbulbn. Contribution d la connaissance de Vindican. Rec. 
trav. Chim., 1900, 19, 166-172. 

H. tbr Mbulbn. Recherches experimentales sur la nature de quelques glucosides 
[Indican]. Rec. trav. Chim., 1905, 24, 444. 

A. G. Pbrkin and W. P. Bloxa'm. Indican. Part I. J. Chem. Soc, 1907, 92, 
1715-1728. 

A. G. Pbrkin and F. Thomas. Indican, II. J. Chem. Soc., 1909, 95, 793-807. 

P. VAN Romburo. On the formation of indigo from indigoferas and from Marsdenia 
tinctoria. Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1900, 2, 344-348. 

F. Thomas, W. P. Bloxam and A. G. Pbrkin. Indican, III. J. Chem. Soc., Z909, 95, 
824-847. 

X5* 



228 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

REFERENCES TO DIGITALIS GLUCOSIDES. 

H. KiLiANi. Digitoxose, Ber., 1905, 38, 4040-4043. 

H. KiLiANi. Digiioxiu and gitalin. Arch. Phaim., 1913, 251, 563-587. **Git€Uin,^* a 
mixture. Ibid., 19149 252, 13-26. Digitinalum verum. Ibid., 1914, 252, 26-32. 

H. KiLiANi. Digitalis substances. Ber., igz8, 51, 16x3-1639. 

F. Kraft. Glucosides of digitalis purpurea leaves. Arch. Pharm., 19x29 250, z 18- 141 
Glucosides from the leaves of digitalis purpurea, Schweiz. Wochenach. Chem. 
Pharm., 19 11, nos. Z2, 139 17. 

L. RoSBNTHALBR. The gitalin question, Schweiz. Apoth.-Zeit, 19x4, 52, 349-350. 

W. Straub. Development of the typical glucosides of the leaf in germinating and growing 
digitalis plants, Biochem. Zeitsch., X917, 82, 48-59. 

A. WiNDAUS AND L. Hbrmanns. Cymorin, the active constituent of Apocynum cannabinum, 

Bcr., 1915, 48, 979-994- 
A. WiNDAUS AND A. ScHNBCKBNBUROBR. Gitonin^ a new digitalis glucoside, Ber., Z913, 
46k 2628-2633. 

REFERENCES TO SAPONINS. 

Y. AsAHiNA AND M. MoMOYA. The saponin from Styrax japonica. Arch. Pharm., 19x4, 
252, 56-69. 

Y. AsAHXNA AND T. Shimidzu. Saponinfrom the epicarp of Sapindus mukurosi, J. Pharm. 
Chim., 1916, (vii), 14, X88-190. 

H. Blau. Beitrdge Mur Kenntnis der Saponins, (Thesis.) 

C. O.Johns, G. A. Gbioer and A. Viehobvbr. Saponinfrom Yucca radiosa, J. Biol. 
Chem.9 X9X6, 24. 

F. Kraft. Glucosides of digitalis purpurea leaves. Arch. Pharm., 19x29 250^ X18-X4X. 

F. B. PoWBR AND A. H. Salway. Constituents of the rhixome and roots of Caulofhyllum 

thalictroides. Trans. Chem. Soc., 19x3, Z03, X9X-209. Identification of %puranol 
and some allied compounds as phytosterol glucosides. Ibid., 19x3, ZO^ 399-4^6. 
Chemical examination of sarsaparilla root. Ibid., X9X49 Z05, 20X-2X9. 

L. RosBNTHALBR AND K. T. Strom. Saponin of the white soapwort. Arch. Pharm., X9i2> 
25O9 290-297. 

A. W. VAN dbr Haar. Untersuchungen in der Pamilie der Araliacea, spexiell uber die 
Glykoside und Oxydasen aus den Bldttern von Polyscias nodosa Forst, und Hedtra 
Helix Linn, (Thesis.) 

A. W* VAN DBR Haar. Saponin-like glucosides from the leaves of Polyscias nodosa and 
Hedera, helix. Arch. Pharm., X9i2, 25D, 424-425. Structure of the natural saponins 
and production of terpenes therefrom. Ibid., X913, 25Z, 2x7-222. 

A. W. VAN DBR Haar. The Araliacea family with special reference to glucosides and 
oxidases of the leaves of Polyscica nodosa and Hedera helix, Phann. Weekblad., 
19131 SO. 1350-1359, I3«i-i393. 1413-1427. 

A. W. VAN DBR Haar. The chemistry and pharmacology of the saponins, Biochem. 
Zeitsch., Z9z6, 76, 335-35^* 

A. ViBHOBVBR, L. H. Chbrnoff, and C. O. Johns. Saponin from Yucca angusHfolia, 
J. Biol. Chem., Z9X6, 24. 

E. WiNTBRSTBiN AND H. Blau. Beitrdge xur Kenntnis d^r Saponins, Zeitsch. physiol. 
Chem., X9XI9 75, 4x0-442. 

REFERENCES TO GLUCOSIDE SYNTHESIS. 

G. CiAMiciAN BT C. Ravbnna. Sintcsi delta salicina per metzo delle piante, AttL R. 

Accad. Lincei, X909, [v], Z89 i., 4Z9-422. 

G. CiAMiciAN BT C. Ravbnna. Sulla formaxione dei glucosidi per messo delle piante. 
• Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, Z909, [v], Z89 ii., 594-596. 

G. L. CiAMiciAN BT C. Ravbnna. Sul contegno delV alcool benMilico delle piante, Atd. 
R. Accad. Lincei, 19x1, [v], 20, i., 392-394. 

A. CoLLBY. Action des Haloides libres et de quelques Chlorures sur la Glucose, Ann. Chim. 

phys., X870, [iv], 2Z9 363-377- 
R. Drouin. Reactions et la composition de thymolglucoside et de Va-naphiholglneoside. 

Bull. Soc Chim., X895, [iii], z^ 5. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 229 

B. Fischer. Synthstic glucosides of ths purines. Ber., 1914, 47, 210-235, Z058-1061, 

1377-1393* 3i93-3«05. Bayer & Co., D.R.P. 281008. 
B. F18CHBR uifD E. F. Armstrong. Syntkese der Glucosids, I., II., III. Ber., 1901, 349 

2885-2900; 1902, 3S 833-843 ; 3153-3155. 

B. FiscHBR AND M. Bbrgmann. Synthssts of mandslonitriU glucoside, sambnnigrinf and 

similar substances, Ber., 1917, 50, 1047-1069. 

E. Fischer and M. Bbromann. Further synthesis of glucosides by means of acetobromo- 
glucose and quinoline. Ber., 1917, 50, 711-722. 

E. Fischer und K. Dblbruck. Thiophenolglucoside. Ber., 1909, 42, 1476- 1482. 

£. Fischer und H. Fischer. Zvei neue Olucoside, Ber., 1910, 43, 2521-2536. 

' E. Fischer und B. Helfbrich. Neue synthetische Glucoside, Annalen, 1911, 383* 68-91. 

E. Fischer and L. von Mechbl. Synthesis of phenol glucosides, Ber., 1916, 49, 
2813-2820. 

E. FiscHBR UND K. Raskb. Synthese einiger Glucoside, Ber., 1909, 43, 1465-1476. 

E. Fischer, H. Strauss and J. Severin. Synthesis of phenolic glucosides. Ber., 1912, 

45, 2467-2474. 

J. HXmalainen. Synthetic P-glucosides of terpene alcohols. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1913, 49, 

398-412 ; SO, 209-219 ; 53, 423-428 ; 1914. 6x, 1-5. 
H. HiLrDEBRANDT. Bomcolglucosid. Biochem. Zeitsch., 1909, 21, i. 

J. C. Irvine and A. Hynd. Synthetic aminoglucosides derived from d-glucosamine, J. 
Chem. Soc., 1913, Z03» 41-56. 

J. C. Irvine and R. E. Rose. Constitution of salicin. Synthesis of pentamethyl salicin, 
J. Chem. Soc., 1906, 89, 814-822. 

C. Mannich. Morphine glucoside. Annalen, 19x2, 394, 223-228. 

F. Mauthner. Die Synthese der Glucosyringasaure. J, prakt. Chem., 1910, 83, 271-274. 

F. Mauthner. Synthese der Glucovanillinsdure und der GlucO'^-oxybenzoBSdure. J. 
prakt. Chem., 1910, pi], 82, 271 ; 19 11, 83, 556-560. 

F. Mauthnrr. Synthesis of glucovanillic acid, etc, J. pr. Chem., 1911, [ii], 83, 556-560. 
F. Mauthner. Synthesis of picein, the glucoside of the pine {Pinus picea). J. pr. Chem., 

1913, [ii], 88, 764-770. 
A. Michael. Synthesis ofhelicin and phenolglucoside. Amer. Chem. J., 1879, x, 305-312. 

A. Michael. Synthetical researches in the glucoside group, II. Amer. Chem. J., 1883, 5, 
171-182. 

A. Michael. Synthetical researches in the glucoside group, III. Amer. Chem. J., 1884, 

6» 336-340. 
A. Michael. Die Synthese des Methylarbutins. Ber., z88i, 14, 2097-2102. 
H. Ryan. Synthetical preparation of glucosides. J. Chem. Soc., 1899, 75, 1054- 1057. 

H. Ryan and W. S. Mills. Preparation of synthetical glucosides. J. Chem. Soc., 1901, 

79, 704-707. 
H. Ryan and G. Ebrill. Synthesis of glucosides. Some derivatives of arabinose. Proc. 

Roy. Irish Acad., 1903, 24, 379-386. 

H. Ryan AND G. Ebrill. Synthesis of glucosides. Some derivations of xylose. Sci. Proc* 
Roy. Dubl. Soc., 1908, 11, 247-252. 

H« Ryan and W. S. Mills. Preparation of synthetical glucosides. J. Chem. Soc., 1901, 

79, 704-707. 
A. H. Salway. Synthetic preparation of glucosides of sitosterol, cholesterol, and some fatty 

alcohols. J. Chem. Soc, 1913, Z03, Z022-1029. 
W. Schneider. Mustard oil glucosides. III. and IV. Synthetic glucosides from thioure- 
thane. Ber., 1914, 47, 1258- 1269, 2218-2224. 

P. Schutzenberobr. Synthese von Glucosiden mittelst der Acetylderivate der Zuckerarten. 
Annalen der Pharmacie, 1871, z6o^ 95-100. 

REFERENCES TO GLUCOSIDE ENZYME SYNTHESIS. 

A. Aubry. Most appropriate experimental conditions for the biochemical preparation of 
a-methyl and a-ethyl glucosides. J. Pharm. Chim., 1914, [vii], zo» 202-207. 

A. Aubry. Specific nature of a-glucosidcue. J. Pharm. Chim., 19x4, [vii], zo^ 23-26. 

A. Aubry. Influence of alcohol concentration and temperature on the biochemical synthesis 
of a-methylgalactoside. J. Pharm. Chim., 19 16, [vii], X4, 289-294. 



230 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

G. Bbrtrand and a. Compton. Supposed reversibility of the hydrolysis of salicin by 
ensymes. Compt. rend., 19x2, 154, z646-i648. 

E. BouRQUBLOT. Synthesis ofglueosides by means of ferments. Bull. Soc. chim., 1913, 
pv]» I3» i-xxviii. 

E. BourqubIot. Specific action of ensymes considered from the point of view of their syn- 
thetic power. J. Pharm. Chim., 1914, [vii], 9, 603-606. 

£. BouRQUBLOT. Biochemical synthesis of d-glucosides of monohydric alcohols, II. 
a-Alkyl-d'glucosides. Ann. Chim., 1915, [ix], 3, 287-337. 

E. BouRQUBLOT. Biochemical synthesis of alkyl glucosides. III. Monoglucosides ofpoly- 
hydric alcohols, Ann. Chim., 1915, [ix], 4, 310-379. 

E. BouRQUBLOT. Rototory powers of the a- and fi-alkyl-d- glucosides and alkyl-d-galac- 
tosides. Compt. rend., 1916, 163, 374-377. 

£. BouRQUBLOT. The biochemical synthesis of alkyl glucosides, IV. Alkyl galactosides, 
Ann. Chim., 1917, [ix], 7, 153-226. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND A. AuBRY. Influence of Strength of alcohol on biochemical Synthesis 
of glucosides, Compt. rend., T914, x^ 70-72. J. Pharm. Chim., 1914, [vii], 9, 
19-23, 62-66. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND A. AuBRY. Influence of acetic acid on synthesising and hydrolysing 
properties of a-glucosidase, Compt. rend., 1915, x6o» 742-745. J. Pharm. Chim., 
1915, [vii], 12, 15-22. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND A. AuBRY. Influence of sodium hydroxide on synthesising and hydro- 
lysing properties of a-glucosidase. Compt rend., 191 5, x6x, 184-186. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND A. AuBRY. Biochemical synthesis, by means of a-glucosidase, of the 
a-monoglucoside of ordinary propylene glycol. Compt. rend., 191 5, x6z, 364-367. 
J. Pharm. Chim., 1915, [vii], 12, 283-289. 

E. BOURQUBLOT AND A. AuBRY. The activity, during biochemical synthesis by fi-glucosidase, 
of the other ferments accompanying it tn emulsin, Compt rend., 1915, z6x» 463-466. 
J. Pharm. Chim., 1915, [vii], Z2, 305-314. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND A. AuBRY. Biochemical synthesis of fi-salicylgalacieside. Compt 
rend., 19x6, 162, 6x0-612. J. Pharm. Chim., X916, [vii], X3, 273-279. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND A. AuBRY. Biochcmical synthesis of a-propyl-d-galactoside by means 
of a ferment contained in the air-dried bottom yeast of beer. Compt. rend., X9X6, z6^ 
3x2-315. J. Pharm. Chim., X916, [vii], X4, X93-199. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND A. AuBRY. Influence of acetic acid on the synthesising and hydrolys- 
ing properties of fi-glucosidase. J. Pharm. Chim., X9X6, [vii], X4, 359-363. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl. Synthetic actions of emulsin in alcoholic solutions. 
Compt rend., X912, 154, 944-946, X375-X378, 1646- X648, I737-I739- J» Pharm. 
Chim., X9X2, [vii], 6, X3-X8. Compt. rend., 19x2, 155, 3x9-322. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl. Synthesis of alkylglucosides by means of emulsin. 
Compt. rend., X912, 155, 86-88, 437-439, 523-524, 854-857. J. Pharm. Chim., X9X2, 
[vii], 6, 298.30X, 442 445. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl. Synthesis of alkyl glucosides by means of emulsin. 
Compt. rend., X913, X56, 827-829. J. Pharm. Chim., X913, [vii], 7, 335-340. Ann. 
Chim. Phys., 19x3, [viii], a8, X45-2X8. Compt. rend., X9X3, X57, 72-74. J. Pharm. 
Chim., 1913, [vii], 8, xo9-iX2. Compt. rend., X913, X57, 405-408. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl. Synthesis of alkyl galactosides by means of emulsin. 
Compt. rend., X9X3, X56, XX04-IX06. J. Pharm. Chim., X9X3, [vii], 7, 444-448. 
J. Pharm. chim., X9X3, [vii], 8, X08-X09. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl. Reversibility of ferment actions. Ann. Chim. Phys., 

I9i3t [viii], a8, X45-2X8. 
E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl. Identity of hydrolytic and synthetic activities of 

emulsin. J. Pharm. Chim., 1913, [vii], 8, X5-X9. 
E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl. Biochemical synthesis of a-glucosides. Compt. rend., 

1913* I57y X024-X027 ; X58» X2I9-X222. J. Pharm. Chim., X9X4, [vii], 9, 514-5x9. 
E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl. Biochemical synthesis of $-glucosides. Compt rend., 

1 91 4, 158* 898-900. J. Pharm. Chim., X9X4, [vii], 9, 383-388. 
E. BouRQUBLOT AND M. Bridbl Fermentation equilibria. Division and displacement in 

an alcoholic medium containing glucose and two glucosidases, Compt. rend, X914, 

I58» 370-373- J- Pharm. Chim., X9X4, [vii], 9, X55-158. 
E. BOURQUBLOT, M. Bridbl and a. Aubry. Biochemical synthesis, by means of emulsin, 

of the fi-monoglucoside of ordinary propylene glycol. Compt. rend., X915, x6o, 

2x4-2x6. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 231 



E. BouRQUBLOT, M. Bridbl and a. Aubry. Biochemical syntfusis of the fi-mono- 
galactoside of ethylene glycol. Compt. rend, 1915, 160, 571-573. J. Pharm. Chim., 
1915. [vii], IX, 201-204. 

E. BouRQUBLOT, M. Bridbl and a. Aubry. Biochemical synthesis of the a-mono- 
galactoside of ethylene glycol. Compt. rend., 1915, z6o, 674-676. J. Pharm. Chim., 
1915, [vii], XX, 290-294. f^ 

E. BouRQUBLOT, M. Bridbl and a. Aubry. Qlucosidification of glycerol by $-glucosidase 
{emulsin). Compt. rend., 1915, z6o, 823-825. J. Pharm. Chim., 1915, [vii], i:^ 
33-34- 

E. BouRQUBLOT, M. Bridbl and a. Aubry. Qlucosidification of glycerol by a-glucosidase. 
Compt. rend., 1915, x6x, 41-43. 

E. BouRQUBLOT, M. Bridbl and a. Aubry. Crystallisation and prof erties of a fi-mono- 
glucoside of glycerol previously obtained by biochemical synthesis, Compt. rend., 1917, 
Z64, 831-833. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND J. CoiRRB. Reversibility of ferment action of emulsin. Compt. 
rend., 1913, 156, 643-646. J. Pharm. Chim., 1913, [vii], 7, 236-240. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND H. H^RissBY. Synthesis of alkylgalactosides by means of emulsin. 
Compt rend., 1912, X5S, 731-733. J. Pharm. Chim., 19 12, [vii], 6, 385-390. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND H. H^RISSBY. Synthesising action between galactose and ethyl 
alcohol under the influence of kephir. Compt. rend., 1912, 155, 1552-1554. Bio- 
chemical synthesis, by means of emulsin^ of a glucoside isomeric with salicin. Ibid., 

1913, 156, 1790-1792. 
E. BouRQUBLOT, H. H^RissBY AND M. Bridel. Synthesis ofalkyl galactosides by means 
of emulsin. Compt. rend., 1913, 156, 330-332. 

E. BouRQUBLOT, H. H^RissBY AND M. Bridel. Synthesis of alkyl a-glucosides by 

means of a-glucosidase. Compt. rend., 1913, 156, 168-170, 491-493, 1493-1495. J. 

Pharm. Chim., 1913, [vii], 7, 233-236, 525-529- 
E. BouRQUBLOT AND A. LuDwiQ. Biochemical synthesis of fi-glucosides {of aromatic 

alcohols). Compt. rend., 1914, X58, 1037-1040, 1377-1379; 1914. XS9» 213-215. J. 

Pharm. Chim., 1914, [vii], 9, 441-446, 542-547; 1914, [vii], zo, 111-116. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND G. MouQNB. Biochemical synthesis of fi-ethyl galactoside. J. 
Pharm. Chim., 1914, [vii], zo» 157-163. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND E. Verdon. Reversibility of ferment actions. Compt. rend., 1913, 
15^1 957-959- J- Pharm. Chim., 1913, [vii], 8, 19-21. Biochemical synthesis of glucoside 
in neutral liquid, not participating in the reaction. Compt. rend., 19 13, X56, 1264- 
1266. J. Pharm. Chim., 1913, [vii], 7, 482-486. 

E. BouRQUBLOT AND E. Verdon. Usc of increasing proportions of glucose in the bio- 
chemical synthesis of fi-methyl glucoside ; influence of the glucoside formed on the 
arrest of the reaction. Ann. Chim. Phys., 1913, [viii], 28, 145-218. 

J. CoiRRB. Optimum experimental conditions for biochemical synthesis of fi-ethyl glucoside. 

J. Pharm. Chim., 1913, [vii], 8, 553-559- 
J. Hamalainbn. Synthesis of glucosides of terpene alcohols by means of emulsin. Biochem. 

Zeitsch., 1913, 52, 409-411. 

J. Hamalainbn. Biochemical oxidation of certain glucosides. Chem. Zentr., 19x3, [ii], 
1319; from Skand. Arch. Physiol., 1913, 30, 187-190. 

H. HiRissBY AND A. AuBRY. Biochemical synthesis of a-galactosides. Compt. rend., 
X914, 158, 204-205. J. Pharm. Chim., 1914, [vii], 9, 225-230, 327-33I' 

G. MouoNB. fi-Galactosidcue in the vegetable kingdom. J. Pharm. Chim., 191 7, [vii], 15, 

339-345- 
G. MouGNB. Preparation of fi-ethylgalactoside by means of kernels of apricots, peciches, 
etc. J. Pharm. Chim., 1917, [vii], 15, 345-348. 

REFERENCES TO THE FUNCTION OF CARBOHYDRATES AND 

GLUCOSIDES IN PLANTS. 

H. E. AND E. F. Armstrong. Function of hormones in stimulating enzymic change in 

relaiion to narcosis and the phenomena of degenerative and regenerative change in 

living structures Proc. Roy. Soc, 1910, 82 B, 588-602. 
H. E. AND E. F. Armstrong. The function of hormones in regulating metabolism. Studies 

on enzyme action, xiv, Ann. Bot., 191 1, 98, 507-519. 
H, E. AND E. F. Armstrong. The differential septa in plants with reference to the 

translocation of nutritive matericUs. Proc. Roy. Soc, 191 1, 84 B, 226229. 



232 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 

H. £. Armstrong, E. F. Armstrong and E. Horton. Herbage studies^ I. Lotus 
Comiculatus, a cyanophoric plant. Proc. Roy. Soc., 1912, 84 B, 471-484. 

M. Bridbl. Variations dans la composition de la racine de Gentiane au cours de la 
vigetation d'une annie. J. pharm. Chim., 191 1, [vii], 3, 294-305. 

R. Chodat. Nouvelles recherches sur les ferments oxydant, IV. et V. Arch. Scf. Phys. 
nat., 1912, 33, 70-95, 225-248. 

G. Ciamician et C. Ravbnna. Sul contegno di alcune sootanxe organiche nei vegetali, 
Gazetta, 1908, 38, i, 682-697. Atti. R. Accad. Lincei, 1909, 18, i. 419-422. 

C. L. Ciamician and C. Ravbnna. Formation of glycosides by means of plants, Atti. R. 
Accad. Lincei., 1916, [v], 35, [i], 3-7. 

S. H. Collins and H. Blair. Rate of liberation of hydrogen cyanide from commercial 
varieties of linseed, Chem. News, 1915, IZZ, 19-20. 

R. CooMBBS. Du rdle de VoxygAne dans la formation et la destruction des pigments 
rouges anthocyaniques chez les vigitaux, Compt. rend , 19 10, 150, 1 186- 1 189. 

T. Curtius und H. Franzbn. Ueber die chemischen Bestandtheile gruner Pflanxen. 
Ueber den Blatteraldehyde, Annalen, 1912, 390, 89-129. 

W. R. DuNSTAN AND T. A. Henry. The nature and origin of the poison of Lotus arabicus, 
Proc. Roy. Soc., 1900, 67, 224 ; 1901, 68, 374-378. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc, 1901. 
194 B, 515-533. 

A. GoRis. Rdle of glucosides in plants. Chem. Zentr., 1916 [i], 851. 

L. GuiGNARD. Sur la localisation des principes actifs des crudftres, Compt. rend., 1890, 
zzz, 249, 920. 

L. GuiONARD. Sur quelques propriitis chimiques de la myrosine. Bull. Soc. Bot., 1894, 

ii 418. 
L. GuiONARD. Influence de Vanathesie et du gel sur le dedoublement de certains glucosides 

chez les plantes. Compt. rend., 1909, 149, 91-93. 

H. Hassblbrino and L. A. Hawkins. Transformation of carbohydrates in sweet potatoes, 
J. Agric. Research, 1915, 6, 543-560. 

Jadin. Localisation de la myrosine et de la gomme chez les moringa. Compt. rend., 1900, 

130. 733. 
H. A. D. JowBTT AND C. E. PoTTBR. Variations in the occurrence ofsalicin and salinigrin 

in different willow and poplar barks. Pharm. J., 1902, August 16. 

P. Kebblb and E. F. Armstrong. The distribution of oxydcues in plants and their rdle 
in the formation of pigments. Proc. Roy. Soc., 19T2, 85 B, 214-218. 

C. Lbpbbvrb. Anwendung der biochemischen Methode zum Nctchweis der Zuckerarten 
und der Glykoside in den P/lanzen der Familie der Taxinen, Arch. Pharm., 1907, 
245« 493-502. J. pharm. Chim., T907, 26, 241-254. 

H. TBR Meulbn. Sur quelques glucosides eontenant des senevols, Rec. trav. Chim., 
1900, 19, 37-45. 

M. MiRANDE. Influence exerciepar certaines vapeurs sur la cyanogenkse vigHale, Procide 
rapide pour la recherche des plantes d acide cyanhydrique. Compt. rend., 1909, 149, 
140-142. 

E. Overton. Auftreten von rothem Zellsaft bet Pflanzen. Prings. Jahr. f. wiss., Bot., 
1899, vol. 33. 

W. PalLadin. Bildung der verschiedenen Atmungsenzyme in Abh&ngigkeit von dem 
Entwicklungs-stadium der Pflanzen, Ber. Bot. Ges., 1906, 24, 97-107. Die Arbeit der 
Atmungsenzyme der Pflanzen unter Verschiedenen Verhdltnissen, Zeitsch. physiol. 
Chem., 1906, 47, 406-451. 

W. Palladin. Die Verbreitung der Atmungschromogene bet den Pflanzen. Ber. Bot. Ges., 
1908, a6a, 378-389- 

W. Palladin. Ueber die Wirhung von Giften auf die Atmung lebender und abgetdteter 
Pflanzen sowie auf Atmungsenzyme, Jahrbucher Wiss. Botanik, 1910, 47, 431-461. 

W. SiOMUND. Ueber salicinspaltende und arbuHnspaltende Enzyme. Monatsh., 1909, 

30. 77-87. 

W. SiGMUND. Ueber ein Hskulinspaltendes Enzym und ueber ein fettspc^fendes Enzym in 
Aesculus Hippocastanum, L, Monatsch., 1910, 31, 657-670. 

A. E. Vinson. The endo- and ecto-invertase of the date. J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1908, 
30, 1005- 1020; 1910, 32, 208. 

J. ViNTiLBSCO. Rdle of glucosides in plants. Chem. Zentr., 1916, [i], 851. 

O. Walthbr. Zur Frage der Indigo Bildung, Ber. Deut. bot. Ges., 1909, 27, 106-IT0. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 233 

Marshal Ward and Dunlop. On same points on the histology and physiology of the 
fruits and seeds in Rhamnus. Ann. of Botany, 1887, z, i. 

Th. Wee vers. Die physiologische Bedeutung einiger Glykoside, Proc. K. Akad. 
Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1909, 12, 193-201. 

M. Whbldalb. Plant oxydases and the chemical inter-relationships of colour- varieties. 

Prog. Rei. Bot., 1910, 3, 457-474- . 
M. Whbldalb. On the formation of anthocyanin, J. of Genetics, 1911, I, 133-158. 
M. Whbldalb. The chemical differentiation of species. Biochem. J., 191 1, 5, 445-456. 

REFERENCES TO RIPENING OF FRUITS. 

E. M. Bailby. Studies on the banana. J. Biol. Chem., 1906, i, 355-361. 

C. Gbrbbr. Recherches sur la mcUuraiion des fruits charnus, Ann. Sc. Nat. Bot., 1896, 
[viii], 4, 1-279. 

H. C. Prinsbn Gbbrlios. Rapid changes in some tropical fruits during their ripening. 
Proc. K. Akad. Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1908, zx, 74-84. 

W. Kblhofbr. Distribution of sugar ^ acid and tannin in apples. Chem« Soc. Abstr., 
1909, ii., 1047. 

P. E. Lloyd. Ueber den Zusammenhang Mwischen Gerbstoff und einem anderen Kolloid 
in reifenden Pruchten^ insbesondere von Phimix, Achras und Diospyros. Zeitsch. 
Chem. Ind. Colloide, 191 1, 9, 65-73. 

R. Otto und W. D. Koopbr. Beitrdge xur Kenntnis des ** NcLchreifens " von Pruchten. 
Zeitsch. Nahr. Genussm., 1910, 19, 10. 

F. ScuRTi and G. De Plato. The chemical processes of ripening. The ripening of 

oranges. Chem. Soc. Abstr., 1909, ii, 174, from Staz. sperim. agrar. ital, 1908, 41, 
435-455. 

G. Tallarico. The hydrolytic and catalytic ferments ctcting during the process of ripen- 

ing of fruit. Chem. Soc. Abstr., 1Q08, ii, 724. 

K. Yoshimura. Beitrdge zur Kenntnis der Banane. Zeitsch. Nahr. Genussm., 191 1, 21, 
406-411. 



INDEX. 

The references in heavy type denote the mare detailed descriptions of the compounds or 

subjects indexed. 



ACETOBROMOOLUCOSE, 37-29, 33. 

Acetochloroglucoses, 22, 26, 33. 
Acetonitroglucoses, 26, 33. 

Acrose, X34-15S I37« 
Adonitol, 87, 88, 127. 
Aesculin, 151, 152, 157. 
Agrostemma sapotoxin, 153, 178. 
Aldehydes from carbohydrates, 199. 
AUiin, 73, 150. 
AUose, 35, 36, 38, 70. 
Aloinose, 78. 
Altrose, 35, 36, 38, 70. 
Aminofflucosides, synthetic, 64, z82. 
Aminonelicin, i&i. 
Aminohexoses, 61-67. 
Aminosalicin, i&3. 
Amygdalase, 151, 154, 171. 
Amygdalin, 150-152, Z70. 
Anhydroglucose, A. 
Anhydromentholglucoside, 29. 
Anhydromethylglucoside, 28. 
Anhydrosedoheptose, 85. 
Anhydrosorbitoi, 29. 
Anthocyan ^lucosides, 163-165, 193-195* 
Anthoxanthm glucosides, 158-163. 
Antiarin, 150. 
Apiin, 152, 159. 
Apiose, 86, X59' 
Arabinoketose, 137. 

Arabinose, 23, 24, 36-38, 70, 72, 78-82, 137, 
150. 

— tetracetate, 41. 
Arabitol, 87, 88, 126. 
Arbutin, 151, 152, 155. 
Aucubin, 151, 154. 

Baptisin, 150, 152. 
Barbaloin, 78, 150, 154, 169. 
Benzylphenylhydrazones, 50. 

— rotatory power, 43. 
Bornesitol, 94. 
Bromomethylfurfuraldehyde, 75. 

Calmatambin, 154. 
Campferitrin, 150, 152, z6o. 
Cane sugar, see Sucrose. 
Carbohydrates, classification of, z-3. 

— formation in mangold, 139. 

potato, 140. 

snowdrop, 139. 

Tropaeolum, 139. 

— symbols for stereoisomerides, 37, 38. 
Carnose, 79. 



Caulophyllosaponin, 153, 179. 
Caulosaponin, 153, 179. 
Cellose, 23, 24, 97, Z04-ZO5. 

— octacetate, 41. 
Cerebrose, 73. 
Cerebfosides, 73. 
Chinovin, 83. 
Chinovose, 83. 
Chitin, 61. 
Chitosamine, 6Z-65. 
Chitose, 62. 

Cholesterol glucosides, synthetic, z8z. 
Chondroitin, 66. 

— sulphuric acid, 65. 
Chondrosamine, 65-67. 

— pentacetate, 41, 67. 
Chrysin glucoside, Z59. 
Cocositol, 94. 
Coniferin, 151, 152, Z57. 
Convallamarin, 150. 
Convolvulin, 83, 150, 152. 
Convolvulinic acid, 83. 
Coumarin glucosides, 157. 
Cyanin, 153, Z64. 
Cyanohydrui S3mthe6es, 58, 81, 83. 
Cyanophoric glucosides, Z75-Z76. 
Cycloses, 90-95. 

Cymarin, 153, z66. 
Cymarose, 86^ 166. 

Dambonitol, 94. 

Dambose, 93. 

Daphnin, 152, Z57. 

Datiscin, 150, 154. 

Degradation of sugars, 59, 60. 

Delphinin, 153, Z65. 

Dextrose, see Glucose. 

Dhurrin, 152, Z75. 

Diastase, loi, 102, 108. 

Dibenzqylglucoxylose, 154, Z70. 

Dibromotriacetylglucose, 28. 

Digitalin, 153, Z65. 

Digitalis glucosides, 165-167. 

Digitalose, 86. 

Digitonin, 150, 153, z6S 178. 

Digitosaponin, 153, 178. 

Digitoxin, 153, Z65. • 

Digitoxose, 86, 166. 

Dimethyl glucoses, 3Z-33. 

Dioxyacetone, 3, 70, 118, 126, 137. 

Diphenylhydrazones, 50. 

Diphenylmethane dimethylhydrazones, 50. 

Disaccluirides, 96-zzo. 



235 



236 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



Disaccharides, behaviour to enzymes, 98. 

— hydrolysis of, 129. 
Dulcitol, 53, 72, 87, 88» Z26, 127. 

Emulsin, xz, 31, 65, 98, ZOZ-IO6, Z08, zzo, 
III, 113, 120-124, 14X. 147. i50f i5i> 
154, 167, Z71, 172, 184-186. 

Enzymes, attachment of, to carbohydrates, 
122-124. 

— balance, and carbohydrates, 195-196. 

— detection of glucosides, Z5X. 

— hydrolytic action of, 134. 

— nomenclature, 120. 

— oxidising, 126. 

— synthesis of glucosides, 184-186. 
Epimerism, zo. 

Epirhodeose, 70, 83. 
Erythritol, 8M8, Z26. 
Erythrose, 38, 70, 80. 
Erythrozym, Z58. 
Erythrulose, 70, 87. 
Ethylthioglucosides, 183. 
Euxanthic acid, 56. 152, z63. 
Euxanthone, 56, i63. 

Fatty acids, from carbohydrates, Z99. 
Fermentation, ZZ5-ZZ9. 

— intermediate products of, zz8. 
Flavones, 83, z62^ X93-I95* 
Formaldehyde, z, 3, 137, Z38, Z4Z. 
Franp^n, Z50, Z52, z6o. 
Fraxm, Z52, zs;. 

Fructose, 6, 23, 24, 70, 73-77» zo6, zo8, izz, 
ZZ5, ZZ9, Z26, Z28, Z34, Z37, Z50: 

— behaviour to alkalies, 45-49. 

— butylene oxide forms, 74. 

— ethylene oxide forms, 13, 74. 

— methylphenylosazone, 76. 

— mono- and diacetones, 76. 

— rotatory power, 39. 
Fructoseazine, 64. 
Fructosides, Z3. 
Fucose, 23, 70, 83. 
Furfiiraldehyde, 82. 
Fustin, Z50, Z52, z6o. 

Galactoarabinosb, X07. 

Galactobioses, sjmthesised by emulsin, Z43, 

147- 
Galactoheptitol, 85. 

Galactoheptose, 7Z, 84. 

Galactonic acid, 55. 

— phenylhydrazide, 42. 
Galacto-octose, 7Z. 

Galactose, 23, 24, 35, 38. 70. 73-73, 78, 8z, 

1X0, XX7, X26, X27, X50. 
•— conversion into glucose, X24. 
— ' ethylene oxide forms, 73, X44, 145. 

— pentacetates, 25^ 4X. 
Galactosides, 97, X06-X09. 
Galactosidoglucose, X43. 
Galacturonic acid, 57, 58, X26. 
Galangin glucoside, Z59. 
Gaultherase, X54, 157. 
Gaultherin, 152, Z57. 
Gentianose, 97, xo6, ZZ2^ Z28, 192. 
Gentiin, Z50, 154. 

Gentiobiose, 97, X05, 106, iz2, Z47, Z92. 



Gentiobiose, biochemical synthesis, xo6. 

-« octacetate, 41. 

Gentiopicrin, Z54, Z92. 

Gentisin, z63. 

Gitalin, Z53, z66. 

Gitin, Z53. 

Gitonin, X53, z66. 

Glucal, 2f, 79. 

Glucodieirolin, Z53, Z69. 

Glucodecose, 7Z. 

Glucoheptose, 23, 24, 7Z. 

— hexacetate, 4Z. 
Gluconic acid, 54* 5S ^^7* i36. 

— phenylhydrazide, 42. 
Glucononose, 7Z. 
Gluco-octoee, 7Z. 
Glucoproteins, 65. 
Glucosamine, 6x^3. 

— pentacetate, 4Z, 67. 
c- Glucosamine, 64. 
Glucose, anilides, 33. 

— behaviour to alkalies, 45-49. 

— butylene oxide forms, 9^ Z5-Z8. 

— conductivity, Z9. 

— configuration, 36-38. 

— constitution, 6. 

— conversion to </-isorhamnose, 84. 

— diacetone, 3Z. 

— enolisation, 45, ZZ5. 

— ethylene oxiae forms, Z3. 

— fermentation, ZZ5-ZZ9. 

— formula, 7-9. 

— hydrazones, 33. 

— mercaptals, 32. 

— monoacetone, 32. 

— osone, 52, ZZ7, Z27. 

— oxidation, 54, Z26. 

— oximes, 33. 

— pentabenzoates, 28. 

— penUcetates, 22, 24-26, 33, 4Z, 67. 

— phenylhydrazones, 49-50. 

— phenylosazone, 5Z-5a. 

— reduction, 5j. 

— solubilities, mitial and final, 24. 

— synthesis, 58. 

— tetracetates, 28. 
Glucoseimine, 63. 
Glucosides, 97-Z06, Z09, Z49-Z86. 

— and animail nutrition, Z89-Z9Z. 

— biochemical detection of, Z5Z. 

— hydrolysis of, Z20. 

— natural, Z49-Z79. 

— significance of, Z87-Z89. 

— synthetic, z8o-z86. 

— table, Z52-Z54. 
Glucosidogalactose, Z43. 
Glucosidogallic acid, 69. 
GlucotropaeoUn, Z53. 
Glucovanillin, Z57. 
Glucoxylose, Z70. 
Glucuronic acid, 54, 56, ^, Z79. 
Glyceric acid, configuration, 8z. 
Glycerose, 3, 38, 70, 80. 

— synthesis of active forms, 8o^ 8z. 
Glycol glucosides, rotatory powers, 4Z. 
Glycollic acid glucoside, Z03. 

— aldehyde, 3, 70, Z37. 
Glycyphyllin, Z50, Z52. 



INDEX 



237 



Qoesypitrin, 152, x6z. 
Gulose, 35, 37, 38, 70, 78, 83. 
Gynocardin, 154, 175. 
Gypsophila sapotoxin, 153, 178. 

Hbderin, 153, 179. 

Helicin, 152, Z56. 

Hesperidin, 150, 152. 

Hexonic acid lactones, rotatory power, 42. 

— phenylhydrazides, rotatory power, 42. 
Hexosamic acids, rotatory power, 66. 
Hexose phosphates, 67, zz6» zz8» 1x9. 
Hydroflavone glucosides, 158-163. 
Hydroglucol, 29. 

Hudson's rule (rotatory power), J^3, 66, 81. 

Idain, 153, 164. 

Iditol, 87. 

Idose, 35, 38, 70» 7^ 

Incamatrin, 152, z6o. 

Indican, 151, 154, 167. 

Inosinic add, 67, 68, 79. 

Inositol phosphoric acid, 94. 

Inositols, 90-95. 

Interconversion of glucose, mannose, fiructose, 

Inulm, 73. 

Invertase, 75, 99, loi, Z02, Z04, xo8, Z09, 11 1, 

113, 128, 141, 147. 151' 
Iridin, 152. 
Isoglucosamine, 63. 
Isolactose, 97, zo8. 

Isomaltose, 97, X04» 106, 142, 145, 146. 
Isoquercitrin, 152, x6x. 
Isorhamnetin, x6o. 
Isorhamnose, 70, 83» 84. 
Isorhodeose, 83. 
Isotrehalose, 97, X02, 134, X43^ X44. 

Jalapxn, 152. 
Jegosaponin, 153, X79. 
Jesterin, 150. 

Kbrasin, 73. 

LaCTASB, Z02, Z08, Z20, Z2Z, Z25. 

— Kephir, 72, Z05, xo8, Z09, Z25. 
Lactones, rotatory power, 54, 55. 
Lactose, 23, 24, 97, Z05, X0S-Z089 Z25, Z28- 

130. 133- 

— constitution, X07. 

— octacetate, 4Z. 
Laevulinic acid, 75, 79. 
Laevulose, see Fructose. 
Laurocerasin, X73. 
Laminareose, zoz. 
Lamtnarin, zoz. 

Levant sapotoxin, Z53, X78. 

Limettin, X57. 

Linamarin, Z52, X75. 

Linase, Z54. 

Lotusin, Z52, 176. 

Lupeose, ZZ3. 

Luteolin glucoside, 159. 

Lyzose, 23, 24, 36-38, 70, 80, 8x, 83. 



Maddbr, Z58. 

Maltase, zz, Z2, 75, 98, ZOZ-Z05, zo8, Z09, 

Z20-Z22, Z4Z, Z45. 
Maltose, 23, 24, 97, X02-XO4, Z30, Z42, Z46. 

— octacetate, 4Z. 

— rotatory power, 39. 
Malvin, Z53, x64. 

Mandelonitrile glucoside, X72, X74. 
Mannitol, 53, 7Z, 75, 87, 88, 90, Z26, Z27. 

— triacetone, 77, 89. 
Mannoheptitol, 84, 85. 
Mannoheptose, 7Z, 7a, 84. 
Mannoketoheptose, 7Z, ftf. 
Mannonic acid, 54, 55. 
Mannononose, 7Z, zz8. 
Manno-octose, 7Z. 

Mannose, 23, 24, 35, 36, 38, 70, 7X-72, 83, 
ZZ5, Z27, Z50. 

— behaviour to alkalies, 45-49. 

— pentacetate, 4Z. 
Mannotriose, 97, xxo^ ZZ3. 
Melibiase, zo8, zzz. 
Melibiitol, Z09. 

Melibiose, 23, 24, 73, 97> I09» ^09^ zzz, Z33. 
Melicitose, 97, Z09, XX2. 
Menthyl glucosides, synthetic, z82. 
Methylarbutin, Z52, X55. 
Methylfructosides, 75. 
Methylgalactosides, Z2i, Z30-Z32. 

— ethylene oxide forms, 73. 
Methylglucoses, Z4, Z9, 22, 29-39. 
Methyl glucosides, ZO-X4, z6, 22, 33, ZZ7, 

Z20, Z22, Z30-Z32. 

Methylglycerose, 3, 70. 
Metbylmaltoside, Z03. 
Methylmannosides, Z20. 
Methylpentoses, 82-84. 
Methylphenylhydrazones, 50. 
Methylrhamnosides, Z2Z. 
Metbylxylosides, Z2Z. 
Monomethylglucoses, 3X-33, zz8. 

— rotatory powers, 4Z. 
Morin glucoside, x6x. 
Mucic acid, 56^ 72. 
Mucins, 65. 

Mustard oil glucosides, 168, X69. 
Mutarotation, x^24f 39, 40. 

— of disacchandes, 98. 

— velocity-coeffidents for various sugars, 

23- 
M3rricetin, x6x. 

Myrosin, Z50, Z54, z68, Z84. 

Myrtillin, Z53, xd^. 



NARXNom, Z52. 
Nomenclature of hexoses, 9. 
Nucite, 93. 

Nudeic acids, 36, 67, 78. 
Nudeoproteins, 78. 



^ 



Obnin, Z53, X64. 

Optical rotatory power of sugars, relation to 

configuration, 38'^3i 54. 
Osones, 52. 
Ouabain, Z50. 
Oxoninm compounds, z8-23. 



238 THE SIMPLE CARBOHYDRATES AND GLUCOSIDES 



Pabonin, 164. 

Parillin, 153, 178. 

Pectins, 58, 72. 

Pelargonin, 153, 164. 

Pentadigalloylglucose, 68. 

Pentamethylglucoses, 30^ 53. 

Pentamethylmannitol, 89. 

Pentosans, 79, 80. 

Pentoses, 4, 78^14. 

Peroxidase, sugars in, 300. 

Perseitol, 72, 84, 85, 88, 126. 

Perseulitol, 84. 

Perseulose, 71, 84. 

Pbaseolunatin, 175. 

Phenol carboxylic acid glucosides, i8x. 

— gluoosides, synthetic, 132, x83. 
Phenylhydrazones, 50, 52. 
Phenylosazones, 50-52. 
Phloridzin, 152, 155. 
Phrenosin, 73. 

Phytin, 94. 

Phytosterolin, 153, x8x. 

Picein, z83. 

Pinitol, 93. 

Polyamyloses, Z13. 

Polygonin, 152. 

Polysciasaponin, 153, Z79. 

Populin, 152, 156. 

Prulaurasin, 152, 173. 

Prunase, 172. 

Prunasin, 152, 173, X73. 

Purgic add, 83. 

Purine glucosides, synthetic, l8z. 

Purpurin, 158. 

Pyridine, action on hexonic acids, 55. 

Pyruvic acid, 119, 127. 

QUBBRACHITOL, 93. 

Quercetagetin, z63. 

Quercimeritrin, 152, z6x. 

Quercitol, 91, 94, 95. 

Quercitrin, 83, 150, 153, x6o. 

Quillaic acid, 153, X78. 

Quinic add, 91, 95. 

Quinoline, action on acetobromoglucose, x83. 

— action on hexonic adds, 55. 
Quinovin, 150, 154. 

Rafpinosb, 24, 73, 97, 109, XXZ| 128, 151. 

Respiration in plants, Z93-195. 

Revertose, 104, 145. 

Rhamnase, 154. 

Rhamnasin, x6o. 

Rhamnetin, zzk. 

Rhamninase, ziz. 

Rhamninose, 97, Z07, XXX, Z5Z. 

Rhamnose, 3, 23, 24, 70, 83, zzz, X27, Z50. 

Rhodeose, 70, 83. 

Ribose, 35-38, 70, 78, 80, Z50. 

— phosphoric acid, 68. 
Ripening of fleshy fruits, Z96-Z98. 
Robinin, Z50, x6o. 
Ruberythric acid, Z52, X58. 
Rubiadin, Z52, Z58. 

Rutin, Z50, Z53, x6x. 

Saccharic acid, 36, 55, 56. 
Saccfaarinic acids, 48, 54. 



Saccharinic lactones, rotatory power, 42. 

Sambunigrin, Z52, X73. 

Salicase, X56. 

Salicin, Z5z, Z52, X56» x86» Z92. 

Salinigrin, Z52, XS7. 

Sapindus saponin, Z50. 

Saponarin, z54. 

Saponins, Z50, X76-X79. 

Saporubrin, Z53, X78. 

Sapotoxin, Z50. 

Sarsasaponin, Z53, X78. 

Scopolin, Z52, XS7. 

Scyllitol, 94. 

Sedoheptitols, 85. 

Sedoheptose, 7Z, 85. 

Selenoisotrehailose, Z44. 

Serotin, Z53, x6x. 

Shikimic acid, 95. 

Sinalbin, Z53, X69. 

Sinigrin, Z5z, Z53, x68. 

Skimmin, Z52, X57. 

Smilacin, Z53. 

Solanin, Z50. 

Solubilities, initial and final, of sugars, 24* 

Sophorin, Z53. 

Sorbitol, 53, 75, 77, 87, 88, Z26, Z27. 

Sorbose, 70, 77, 78, Z26, Z37. 

Sphingosin, 73. 

Stachyose, 97, XZ3, Z28. 

Stereoisomerides, 3, 4, 34-38* 

— of inositols, 92. 
Strophantin, Z50, Z53, x66. 
Strophantobiose, XXO, z66. 
Styracitol, 29. 

Sucrose, 24, 73, 97, 99-xox, Z02, Z28, Z29, 
Z33, Z42, Z5Z. 

— constitution, 99-zox. 

— phosphate, 67. 
Sunlight, action on sugars, 44. 
Synthesis, chemical, of sugars, 58, 59, X34- 

X37, X42^X45. 

— of sugars by enzymes, X45rX48. 

in the plant, X^-X42. 

Syringin, Z52, x^, Z69. 

Taoatosb, 70, 72, ZZ7. 

Talonic acid, 55. 

Talose, 35, 38, 70, 72, ZZ7. 

Tannins, 68-69. 

Tartaric acids, 80. 

Taxicatin, Z5Z. 

Terpene glucosides, synthetic, x8x. 

Terpenes, from saponins, Z78. 

Tetramethylglucoses, Z4, Z9, 22^ 30^ 3X, 33. 

Tetramethyl methylglucosides, Z4, 22. 

Tetroses, 4. 

Theophylline glucoside phosphoric add, i8x. 

Thioglucose, 32. 

Thioisotrehaiose, X44. 

Thiophenolglucoside, Z83. 

Threose, 38, 70, 80, 87. 

Thujin, Z53, x6x. 

Thymus nucleic acid, 68, 79. 

Trdialase, zoz. 

Trehalose, 24, 97* X0X-X03, X34, Z43, X44. 

Triacetylmethylglucoside bromohydrin, 28. 

Trifolin, Z50. 

Trimethylglucoses, 32^ 33, Z05. 



INDEX 



239 



Trioses, 4. 

Turanose, 97, 109, iii, 133. 

Turpethin, 150. 



Ultra-violbt light, action on sugars, 44. 



Vbrnin, 150, 154, 169. 
Vicianase, 176. 
Vicianin, 150, 152, 176. 



Vicianose, zzo» 176. 
Volemitol, 8S 88. 

Xanthopurpurin, 158. 

Xanthorhamnin, 83, iii, 150, 151, 153, i6o. 

Xylonic acid, 82, 126. 

Xylose, 23, 36-38, 70, 78, 80-82, 150. 

— rotatory power, 39. 

— tetracetate, 41. 

Yeast nucleic acid, 68. 



'^'^'^ ?1 1«?0 



PRINTED IN ORBAT BRITAIN BY THB UNIVBR8ITY PRB88, ABBRDBBN. 



