
Complete Directions 
and Recipes 





THE UNION BAG AND PAPER CO. 

NEW YORK6) 



j 



CHEAP MEATS AND POULTRY. 
Herein Union Cookery Bags offer great economy. Cuts 
of meat and poultry too tough for use by the old method are 
thoroughly cooked and made tender and good by Union Cookery 
Bags. Especial care has been given to this department because 
of the great possible saving. Do not overlook it. 

CUT DOWN YOUR MEAT BILL. 
Here is a Great Saving. 
In addition to the important advantages in cooking, Union 
Cookery Bags are also used for wrapping food placed in the 
refrigerator. 

Meat, butter, and kindred articles will keep much better 
when kept in Union Cookery Bags. 

Meat will not shrink or discolor if placed in these Bags. 

TO RECLAIM DRY BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 

Dip in water quickly. Seal in a bag as usual. Place in the 
oven for a few minutes. The bread will come out as good as 
if freshly baked. 

THE BAGS. 

Do not use ordinary bags. They will make the food taste 
of paper. The special paper bags required are the Union Cookery 
Bags. Do not attempt to cook in any other bag. They are the 
only cooking bags in the United States approved and recom- 
mended by the representatives of M. Soyer. 

Do not put wooden dishes or receptacles of any kind into the 
bags with meat, fish, poultry or vegetables. They are not only 
useless, but detrimental. 




THE OVEN. 

Any oven will do — coal, gas, oil or electric. Nearly all 
ovens have wire or perforated shelves. If yours has a solid 
shelf, use a wire broiler or grid set over a pan. Never place 



the bag on a solid shelf. It is essential that heat circulate on 
all sides of the bag. 

The shelves in modern ovens are movable and should be 
taken out when possible before heating the oven. The rilled 
bag can then be placed on the shelf and the shelf placed in the 
oven, being taken out in the same manner when the food is 
cooked. This avoids handling the bag and possibility of 
accident. 

Don't have the oven too hot. Union Cookery Bags require 
a moderate oven only. The old paper test of oven heat is good. 
In gas ovens one full burner, or, preferably, two burners about 
half full, will usually give moderate heat. 

The bag will burst if placed upon a very hot surface at the 
start. Therefore, draw the wire or perforated shelf from the 
oven, or use a broiler or grid. Thus the filled bag is placed 
upon a cool surface and the whole heats up evenly at the same 
time when placed in the oven. 

Never place the bag upon a solid shelf, 



Directions 

1. Remove shelf from oven, if yon don't use a grid. 

2. Prepare the food as usual. 

3. Select a Union Cookery Bag amply large for the food 
to be cooked. Handle it carefully. 

4. Moisten the bag slightly all over with water to make it 
pliable and avoid breaking. 

5. Grease the bag inside with butter, drippings, lard or 
olive oil, using a brush or cloth. 

6. Lay the bag flat on the table, lift the upper edge of the 
mouth and carefully insert the food. 




7, Press the surplus air out of the bag. 




^mmg^mm.^im ; ; ■ -.^-^m^^^c-., ■ 



8. Fold the mouth of the bag two or three times. Fold 
in the corners to insure hermetical closing. Fasten with three 
or four clips or pins. 




9. Place the filled sealed bag on the wire or perforated 
shelf or grid, seam side up, and put in the oven. Do not place 
the bag too near the flames. The bag usually turns brown as 
cooking progresses. If it becomes very brown shortly after being 
placed in the oven or the slightest smell of scorching paper 
appears, reduce the heat, for the oven is too hot. Heat makes 
the bags brittle and they may break if touched during cooking. 

If broiler or grid be used, set it over a shallow pan in the 
oven. 




10. When the food is done draw the shelf or grid from 
the oven, or slip a plate gently under the bag and so remove 
it. To save the juices, cut a hole in the bottom of the bag and 
hold a dish under the opening. 




11. Slit the bag with a sharp knife, remove it carefully 
from about the food and throw it away. 







Vl/j'j* 


W^~~ 








V 




/c " >•.; j]/\ * 






!■>■■" 














log 


§5^ 




§^i<M 





HOW TO KNOW WHEN FOOD IS 

Follow the Time Table. If the heat dec 
reason it becomes necesary to learn the progre 
a long needle may be used to test the food, 
made will not injure the process. 

If the bag should break while in use, encl 
broken bag in another bag, greased inside, 
before. 

To insure perfect browning, make a few 
of the bag 5 or 10 minutes before the cooking 



COOKED. 

lines, or for any 

ss of the cooking 

The small hole 

ose the food and 
and proceed as 

holes in the top 
is completed. 



EXPERIENCE. 

Do not be discouraged if your first efforts are not rewarded 
by complete success. The process is new and a little experience 
is necessary. The method is a demonstrated success, how- 
ever, and Union Cookery Bags will amply reward a little 
patience at the beginning. 



A Great Chef s Opinion 

"Cooking in paper bags appeals to housewives as an 
economical, labor-saving method of preparing a meal. Indeed, 
food thus cooked retains a delicious flavor and zest which are 
not obtainable through the old way. 

"The sealed bag prevents loss of the rich juices and shrink- 
age of the food, and the heat is more thoroughly distributed. 
This confinement of the heat, of course, greatly reduces the 
time required for cooking and makes a material reduction in 
the fuel bill. As the bag is always placed upon a gridiron in 
the oven, there is no washing of pots and pans, and the mal- 
odorous fumes peculiar to many dishes are unknown. 

"At the house, or at the apartment, the paper bag may well 
be employed to great advantage and satisfaction. The up-to- 
date hostess will entertain a party of friends at a 'paper-bag 
dinner,' and as the toothsome viands arc brought upon the 
table concealed in those queer looking browned sacks, naught 
but exclamations of delight can escape her guests when the 
novel puffed pouches are slit open and give forth volumes of 
savory, piquant odors. Again, if the busy, thrifty, woman be 
delayed by a long afternoon shopping, and reaches home only 
to find time enough to prepare a 'hurry-up' dinner for her family, 
the paper bag readily lends itself to hasty cooking. 

"Eish, roasts and most vegetables can be easily prepared 
and made ready to serve in a surprisingly short period. 

"Until the cook is accustomed to the various times required 
for different dishes, she will probably be harassed by doubts as 
to when the dish is done. The Time Table will guide her 
accurately, or the insertion of a long needle will do no harm. 

"The cooking of our food in a paper bag is not new. The 
present idea, without doubt, grew out of the old and familiar 
method of cooking en papillote. But the difference between these 
dishes en papillote and the latest idea of cooking in bags is that, 
as a rule, most of the old dishes were prepared and sometimes 
half cooked, before they were put into the paper. Of course, 
this was therefore a matter for the chef and many assistants, 
who desired to attain a certain flavor, rather than a device to 
save labor. In olden times our forefathers used to cook their 
game and fruits wrapped in leaves and parchment, and our- 
selves, when camping, frequently wrap a bird in a piece of old 
linen, then in coarse brown paper, and roast it on the ashes of 
the camp fire. Now, the idea is brought into the home and 
made practical. All that is necessary is an oven, a grid and a 
paper bag. 

"The bag keeps in all the smell of cookery, all the albumen 
of the food, and prevents loss of weight in cooking. In either 
roasting or baking, beef loses 25 per cent, of its weight when 
cooked by the ordinary methods. In the paper bag, however, 
it loses none of its weight and no particle of its essence. 

"When the food is taken from the bag a small quantity of 
concentrated gravy first rolls out, and it is the purest and best 



broth that can be imagined. Cooking time in preparing the meat 
is reduced by at least one-third. There is not the faintest trace 
of odors from the kitchen, not even in the case of vegetables, 
which sometimes smell strongly; cauliflower, for instance. 

"The paper-bag system notably allows freedom from grease. 
Many dishes that are too rich for digestion when cooked in the 
usual way may be put into a paper bag with no more butter 
than is necessary to grease the bag, and will be found to have 
gained in savor and delicacy of taste, while so completely free 
from grease that they will not disagree with the most delicate 
digestion. Furthermore, there is no scrubbing out of a greasy 
oven, with drippings clinging to its sides, no washing out of 
the dripping pan or baking dish. A spotlessly clean oven is 
left, and when the bags have been burned up and the dishes 
washed, the cook's labors with the finished meal are over. 

Many housekeepers have discovered how to freshen and 
re-heat bread by wrapping it in a paper bag. Biscuits that have 
been kept for twenty-four hours, while having lost only one 
per cent, or one-half per cent, of moisture by evaporation, are, 
nevertheless, dry. Their crusts' are brittle, though the heart will 
be moist. If the moisture can be redistributed the biscuit will 
become almost as good as when first baked. Nothing will 
accomplish this redistribution as well as paper wrapping. 

"Soups cannot be cooked in bags, as the expansion caused by 
evaporation bursts the paper. Vegetables and desserts give 
varying - success, some turning out to perfection and others 
proving less palatable. But eggs in every style, fish, entrees 
and roasts are always delicious, and it is here that the epicurean, 
though frugal housekeeper, will reap the many profits of paper- 
bag cookery. 

"In general, it may be stated that there are less dangers to 
be avoided in paper-bag cookery than in any other method. 
Here it is not necessary to open the oven door every once in 
awhile to baste the food or to see how the cooking is pro- 
gressing. The oven can be relied upon to do its work thor- 
oughly if directions are followed and a little experience gained." 




Chef, Hotel St. Regis, New York City. 



Fisli Recipes 



COD, salmon, halibut or any other kind of fish suitable for 
boiling can be cooked successfully in a paper bag. After 
cleaning, trimming and wiping the fish thoroughly, butter 
the inside of a paper bag of suitable size; then put in the fish, 
with one or two slices of onion and carrot, a little vinegar or 
lemon juice, and enough salted water to moisten the fish well. 
Allow about a pint of water to two pounds of fish. Fold in the 
end of the bag with two folds, then fasten with several wire 
clips and place it carefully onto a cold wire tray or grid and 
put it in the oven to cook. 

The oven should register about 225 degrees when the fish 
is put on. The time required for cooking depends greatly on the 
shape and thickness .of the fish. Two pounds of cod will take 
about 25 to 30 minutes. 

To serve take out the bag carefully with the grid; slit the 
paper and lift out the fish with a fish slice or small skimmer 
and place it on a hot dish. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and 
serve. 

BAKED HERRINGS. 

Remove the heads from three or four fresh herrings. Split 
them open and take out the backbones. Season the inside with 
salt and pepper and dip them in a little milk and dredge with 
Scotch oatmeal. Melt some fat and with it brush over the pre- 
pared herrings. Then place them side by side in a paper bag, 
fasten the end, and cook on a wire grid or perforated shelf in 
a hot oven for about 10 minutes. Dish up and serve. 
BAKED MACKEREL. 

Procure a good-sized mackerel, wipe it with a damp cloth, 
split it open and remove the bones, also the head and fins. Pre- 
pare a stuffing composed of two ounces of chopped beef suet, 
two or three tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, one teaspoon- 
ful of savory herbs and some chopped parsley. Spread the inside 
of the mackerel with this, fold over and put the fish in a greased 
paper bag, pour a little oiled butter over the fish and fasten the 
bag securely. Bake on a wire grid in a moderate oven for about 
25 minutes. Dish up and serve plain or with anchovy sauce. 

FILETS OF MACKEREL. 

Procure two good-sized mackerel, wipe them and carefully 
remove the fish from the bones. Place the filets thus obtained 
in a deep dish, season with salt and pepper and a little lemon 
juice, then pour over a tablespoonful of vinegar and add a few 
thinly cut slices of carrot and onion and one bay leaf. Cover 
the dish and allow to stand for about half an hour. < Take up 
the fish and drain on a cloth. Put the cut vegetables in a well- 
buttered grease-proof paper bag, and upon them place the filets 
of fish, skin downwards, then brush over with a little oil or 
butter. Fold over the end of the bag, fasten with clips and 
cook in a quick oven on a grid or trivet from 8 to 10 minutes. 
Take out the bag, remove the fish onto a hot dish, put a little 
neatly-shaped parsley butter on top of each. Garnish with thin 
slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley and serve. 

10 



COD STEAKS WITH HAM. 

Procure two slices of cod, each weighing from half to 
three-quarters of a pound. Wipe it and place on a buttered dish. 
Prepare a mixture of bread crumbs, savory herbs and parsley 
and bind it with a little beaten egg. Place this upon each slice 
of fish and season with salt and pepper. Put a slice of raw 
ham or lean bacon on top of each, then place the fish in a well- 
greased paper bag, fold the end and fasten with clips. Put the 
bag on a grid shelf in a fairly hot oven. Bake for about 20 
minutes. Dish up, and, if liked, pour round some anchovy sauce 
and serve. 

FILETS OF FLOUNDER. 

Remove the filets from a medium-sized flounder, cut each 
filet in two, season with salt and pepper and sprinkle over a 
little lemon juice; fold each filet in two or roll up (skin inwards) J 
Put a small piece of butter on top of each and place carefully 
in a buttered paper bag, fasten the ends with clips, and cook 
for about 10 minutes on a wire grid in a hot oven. Cut open the 
bag and lift out the fish carefully onto a hot dish. Garnish with 
sprigs of parsley and serve. 

STUFFED HADDOCK. 

Wash, scale and wipe a good-sized fresh haddock; remove 
the eyes. Prepare a stuffing with two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
suet, two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, half teaspoonful of 
herbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley and season with salt 
and pepper. Moisten the stuffing with half an egg. Stuff the 
body of the fish and sew up the opening or simply fold in ends. 
Brush it over with beaten egg and sprinkle over some browned 
bread crumbs and place a few very small pieces of dripping, 
wrap carefully in greased paper bag, fold the end and fasten' 
with wire clips and place on a wire grid in the oven. Bake in 
a fairly hot oven from 25 to 30 minutes, according to size of 
fish. Dish up, remove the string, and serve. 

FILETS OF HADDOCK. 

Cut the filets neatly from a good-sized fresh haddock, cut 
each filet in two, season with salt and pepper and sprinkle over 
a little lemon juice. - Put a small piece of butter on top of each 
filet and place carefully in a well-buttered paper bag, fold in 
twice, fasten the ends with clips and cook for about 10 minutes 
on a wire grid in a hot oven. 

FRIED FILETS OF SOLE. 

Remove the skin and fins from two soles, cut off the head 
portion, dip the fish filets in milk and then in flour. Put them 
in a well-buttered paper bag with about two ounces of clarified 
butter, fold in the end of the bag and fasten with clips, place 
on a wire grid and cook in a very hot oven for about twenty 
minutes. Turn the bag twice during the cooking process. Take 
up the fish, drain and dish up. Garnish with quarters of lemon 
and sprigs of parsley and serve. 

SOUCHET OF FISH. 

This can be made of flounder or sole, or any other kind of 
white fish. If soles are used they must be skinned on both 

11 



sides. Trim the fish and wipe it thoroughly. Peel one small 
onion, half a small turnip, a small carrot, and cut each into thin 
slices, then into fine julienne strips. Put the fish with the 
vegetables in a well-buttered paper bag. The fish should be 
put between the vegetables. Add as much salted water as may be 
required to well moisten the fish (half to three-quarters of a 
pint). Fold in the bag and fasten with clips, turn up the corners 
and put it carefully on a grid shelf into a moderate oven. It 
will take about half an hour to 40 minutes to cook the fish and 
vegetables. Take out the fish, put it on a hot dish and sprinkle 
over the vegetables and a little stock. Sprinkle over some chopped 
parsley and garnish with slices of lemon. 

FISH CAKES. 

Take half a pound of cold fish, freed from skin and bones, 
half pound of cooked potatoes, one ounce of butter or dripping, 
two tablespoonfuls of milk, salt and pepper, one egg and bread 
crumbs. Chop the* fish finely. Mash the potatoes and mix them 
with the fish, season with salt and pepper. Melt the butter 
or dripping, add the fish, etc., to it, then mix all together with 
the milk. Shape the mixture into small flat cakes of even size. 
Beat up the egg on a plate, then egg and bread-crumb the 
cakes and again shape. Now put them into a well-buttered 
paper bag, close up the end and fasten with wire clips. Put 
into a very hot oven on a grid shelf and cook for about 20 
minutes. Turn the bag twice during the cooking process. Cut 
open the bag with scissors and place the fish cakes onto a hot 
dish. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and serve. 

TWICE LAID. 

This is the name of a dish in which cold fish and potatoes 
are used. 

Mash about a pound of cold potatoes with a fork, remove 
the skin and bones from half a pound of cold fish and 
break it up into flakes. Mix with the potatoes and season with 
salt and pepper. Melt an ounce of dripping; when hot mix it 
with the fish and potatoes and shape into a flat cake. Place 
this in a well-greased paper bag. fold the end and fasten with 
clips. Put it on a wire grid and bake in a fairly hot oven for 
about 20 minutes. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Remove the beards from a dozen large oysters. Stir the 
liquor into a basin containing the yolk of an egg and a des- 
sertspoonful of flour. To this add a little lemon juice and half 
a gill of cream or milk. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. 
Cut each oyster in two and put them with six sliced mush- 
rooms in a well-buttered paper bag; pour in also the prepared 
liquid. Close up the bag securely with clips, put it on a wire 
grid in a moderately heated oven and cook for about 12 minutes. 
Dish up the oysters, pour over the sauce, sprinkle some chopped 
parsley on top and garnish with slices of lemon and pieces of 
toasted bread. Serve hot. 

BREADED OYSTERS. 

Remove the beards from twelve large oysters, drain them 
on a cloth and egg them carefully, then roll in fresh bread 
crumbs. Put them in a thickly-buttered paper bag with about 

12 



two iablespoonfuls of oiled butter. Close up the bag securely 
and cook on a grid shelf in a hot oven for about 8 minutes. 

OYSTER CAKES. 

Take a dozen large sauce oysters, remove their beards, and 
put these with the oyster liquid into a basin and mix up with 
three tablespoonfuls of rich white sauce. Add a little cream 
and stir in one or two yolks of eggs and a cupful of bread 
crumbs or finely crushed cracknels or milk biscuits. Divide 
the oysters into quarters and mix with the above, season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Whisk the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate with the 
above. Put the mixture into one or two small, well-buttered 
paper bags, duly fastened at end, and bake on a wire grid in a 
fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. Slit open the bags and 
take out the cakes, put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley 
and slices of lemon and serve. 

FISH SAUCES. 

The liquor or stock from the fish should be utilized for 
making a tasty sauce. Strain the required quantity of liquor 
into a hot basin and stir in enough cream to thicken. If liked 
richer, one or two yolks of eggs should be stirred into the 
cream before mixing it with the fish liquor. This would be 
called cream sauce. By adding a little anchovy essence, anchovy 
sauce is produced, while, by adding some chopped parsley maitre 
d'hotel or parsley sauce is produced. Salt and pepper should 
be added to taste. 

FILET OF FLOUNDER WITH WHITE WINE. 

Cut from a good-sized flounder half a pound of the best filet. 
Add a pinch of salt and of pepper. Put into a bag with half a 
glass of white wine and two teaspoons of fish stock. Cook 
20 minutes. 

FILET OF BLUE FISH. 

Salt and pepper and roll in flour one large bluefish, cut into 
slices two inches thick. Mince very fine one small onion, and 
sprinkle over each piece. Add half a pint of fish stock, the 
juice of half a lemon, and a piece of butter size of an egg. 
Close the bag and cook 40 minutes. 

HADDOCK IN CREAM. 

Take half a pound of haddock, roll in flour, and add a pinch 
of pepper. Stir in half a pint of thick cream, with a_ piece of 
butter size of an egg. Place in a bag and cook for 35 minutes. 

SMELTS SUR LE PLAT. 

Clean and wash carefully six smelts, add a pinch of salt and 
of pepper, and roll in flour. Add one small onion, chopped 
fine, three tablespoons of fish stock, a dash of lemon juice and 
a piece of butter size of an egg. Place in a bag and cook for 
15 minutes. 

FRESH SPANISH MACKEREL IN BUTTER. 

Cut half a pound of choice filet of mackerel, and add pinches 
of salt and pepper. Put into the bag, cover with fresh bread 
crumbs, and pour drawn butter over the whole. Seal the bag 
and let cook for 20 minutes, 

13 



CRAB MEAT AU GRATIN. 
Put half a pound of crab meat into a saucepan. Add a 
piece of butter size of an egg and three tablespoons of thick 
cream. Sprinkle salt and pepper to taste. Place in a bag and 
cover the meat thickly all over with equal parts of cheese 
gratings and bread crumbs. Cook for 20 minutes. 

WHITEFISH DUGLERE. 

Salt and pepper and roll in flour one large whitefish, add 
one small onion chapped fine, two or three sprigs of parsley, 
and two tomatoes skinned, seeded and chopped. Put into bag 
and cook 25 minutes. 

SPANISH MACKEREL WITH TOMATOES. 

Put into a saucepan a. piece of butter size of an egg; add 
one medium-sized onion chopped, then three tomatoes, skinned, 
seeded and chopped. Salt and pepper to taste. Cook for 5 
minutes. Then put a large mackerel into the bag, cover with 
the above ragout, and let cook 35 minutes 

KINGFISH WITH EGG PLANT. 

Brown in the pan one small onion in butter. Add the 
egg plant cut into half-inch cubes, with two tablespoons of 
ketchup. Cook 10 to 15 minutes, then salt and pepper. Put 
the fish into the bag, add the above ragout, and cook 25 
minutes. 

FILET OF STRIPED BASS MEUNIERE. 

Cut a choice filet weighing about a pound; salt, pepper and 
dust in flour. Pour over drawn butter, and before sealing the 
bag add more butter, size of an egg. Cook for 15 minutes. 

SEA BASS DIABLE. 

Salt, pepper, and roll in flour a pound of fresh sea bass. 
Sprinkle with mustard, flour, and the juice of two slices of 
lemon. Pour over drawn butter, put into the bag and cook 
from 15 to 20 minutes. 

BLUEFISH FILET WITH OYSTERS. 

Take a pound of the filet, and salt, pepper, and roll in flour. 
With a dozen or 15 oysters do the same. With the oysters, 
however, use less salt and more pepper. Put the fish into the 
bag and carefully lay the oysters around it. Pour over the 
whole half a glass of white wine and half a glass of fish stock. 
Cook for 20 minutes. 

WHITEFISH NORMANDE. 

Make a ragout of 8 whole mushrooms, 10 very small 
onions, 8 medium-sized oysters, half a glass of sweet cider, 
one tablespoon of brandy, half a glass of fish stock, and some 
fine herbs tied in a bunch. Salt, pepper, and roll in flour a 
pound of choice whitefish filet. Over this spread evenly the 
above ragout, and cook in the bag for thirty minutes. 
CODFISH FINES HERBES. 

Weigh out a pound of codfish steak, and having salted and 
peppered to taste, dust it throughly in flour and put into 
the cooking bag. Add a dessertspoon of chopped fine herbs, 

14 



a piece of butter size of an egg, half a glass of white wine, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Close the bag and let cook for 
a half hour. 

FILET OF KINGFISH DUGLERE. 

The filet must be well seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
then roll in flour. To a pound and a half then add three 
tomatoes, cut into quarters, two chopped onions, and two or 
three sprigs of parsley, with a piece of butter size of an egg. 
Put into the bag and pour over the whole half a glass of white 
wine. Cook for 20 minutes. 

LOBSTER AU FOUR. 

Take a two-pound live lobster and cut it in half. Break 
the large pincers, salt and pepper, and add two or three chopped, 
small onions, a small bunch of hue herbs, and a piece of butter 
size of an egg. Put into the bag and cook for 30 minutes. 



Meat Recipes 

TRIM the meat if necessary and cut off any projecting 
bones, as these often cause the paper bags to burst. 
Wipe it with a cloth, then weigh the joint. Allow 
from 20 to 25 minutes to each pound of meat. Veal and pork 
require a little more time than beef or mutton, as the former 
should always be well done. Dredge the cut side of the joint 
with flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Have ready the 
correct size of a paper bag. Select it rather too large than too 
small, so that there is no possible chance of its breaking 
when the joint is put in. After spreading a little dripping or 
butter over the meat put it in a well-greased paper bag. 
Fasten the end after folding it with several wire clips. Xext 
place it on a grid shelf in a hot oven and cook till tender. 
When done open the bag and dish up the meat. Serve with 
gravy. 

The time required for cooking depends upon the size and 
weight of the joint. It is safe to allow about 20 minutes to 
every pound. For other information on this point the time 
table found at the beginning *of this book should be consulted. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEATS. 

Pour any fat found in the bag while warm into a basin, 
which keep for future use. Pour a little hot water or stock 
into a basin containing the liquor from the roast meat, stand 
it in the hot oven and add a little gravy salt. This will color 
the gravy. Season with pepper and salt and strain over the 
meat on the dish. When the joint is cut some of its juice will 
run out and will improve the gravy already in the dish. 

BOILED BEEF. 

Procure about two pounds of salt beef and soak it for 
several hours in cold water. Peel and scrape two small turnips 
and two carrots, cut them into quarters and put them with 
the meat in a well-greased bag of the required size. Add as 

15 



much water as the bag with its contents will conveniently hold 
and fold in the end, fasten with \wire clips and place it on a 
cold wire grid into a moderately heated oven. Cook thus for 
about 50 or 60 minutes. When done take up the meat, put 
it on a hot dish, garnish with the cooked vegetables and pour 
over a little of the liquor. Serve with boiled suet dumplings. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. 

Mix six ounces of sifted flour with three ounces of finely 
chopped'beef suet and a pinch of salt, also half a teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Moisten with enough cold water to produce 
a fairly stiff paste. Make this up into small balls and put them 
in a well-greased paper bag with about half a pint of water. 
Fold in the end of the bag and fasten with wire clips, place it 
on a wire grid in a hot oven and cook for about 35 to 40 
minutes. 

CHOPS AND STEAKS. 

These can be successfully cooked in paper bags. Wipe 
the meat and trim off some of the fat, if found necessary. 
Chops should be skewered to keep them in shape. Season with 
salt and pepper and brush over the chops or steaks with oiled 
butter. Put them in a well-greased paper bag, place them on 
a grid shelf in a hot oven and cook for about 15 or 18 minutes, 
according to the thickness of the meat. A little parsley butter, 
that is, butter mixed with salt and pepper, lemon juice and 
chopped parsley, should be put on the meat when dished up. 
There is usually a little gravy in the bag in which chops or 
steaks are cooked. This should be poured over the meat. 

PORK SAUSAGES. 

Divide a pound of sausages and prick them with the prongs 
of a fork, then put them side by side into a well-greased paper 
bag. Close it up and fasten with clips. Place on a wire grid 
and cook in a fairly hot oven for about 15 minutes. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. 

Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into neat cutlets, 
flatten each and trim neatly. Season with salt and pepper and 
place in a well-buttered paper bag, fold in the ends, fasten with 
clips and cook in a fairly hot oven on a grid shelf from 12 to 
15 minutes. 

MUTTON CUTLETS WITH TOMATOES. 

Flatten slightly and trim neatly six or more mutton cutlets, 
season each side with salt and pepper and place a slice of 
tomato upon each. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley and 
chives, then put the cutlets carefully into one or more buttered 
paper bags, place in a very hot oven on a grid or trivet and 
cook from 12 to 15 minutes. To serve, cut open the paper bag 
and take out the cutlets carefully, arrange them on a hot dish, 
garnish with sprigs of parsley and send to table. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Procure about four or five veal cutlets from the best end 
of the neck of veal. Flatten with a cutlet bat, then trim the 
sides neatly and scrape the bones clean, season each with salt 
and pepper. Melt about half an ounce of butter and add to it 

16 



about a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, one small peeled 
and finely chopped shallot and a little lemon juice. Brush over 
each side of the cutlets with this, then place them side by side 
into a thickly buttered paper bag, fold in and fasten the ends, 
then put the bag on a grid shelf or trivet and cook in a hot 
oven from 18 to 20 minutes. Slit open the bag and arrange the 
cutlets neatly on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and quarters 
of lemon and serve with a sharp tomato or piquante sauce. 

Note. — If liked, a few finely cut slices of streaky bacon 
can be cooked at the same time as the cutlets. These can be 
placed on top of the cutlets or may be cookd in a separate bag. 

STEAMED CHOP. 

Procure two or three mutton or lamb chops and trim each 
neatly, cutting off the superfluous fat, fold in the ends and 
fasten with a skewer, then season with salt and pepper, and 
spread over each side with butter. Place the chops in a well- 
buttered paper bag with a few slices of onion and carrot and, 
if liked, a few pieces of celery and also three tablespoonfuls of 
water. Close up the end of the bag and fasten with clips. 
Then cook on a grid or trivet in a hot oven for about 25 minutes; 
Slit open the bag, take out the chops and remove the skewers, 
arrange the chops on a dish, pour over any liquor found in the 
bag, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley and. serve hot. 

A dish of mashed or fried potatoes should accompany this 
dish. 

FILET OF VEAL (DUTCH STYLE). 

Cut a few filets of veal into individual portions, season 
each with salt and pepper, a few drops of lemon juice. Brush 
lightly with melted butter and turn in sifted bread crumbs. Put 
in a buttered bag with a teaspoonful of bouillon or stock, fold 
and fasten bag, and cook in a moderately hot oven 20 minutes. 

ROAST BEEF WITH SWEET POTATOES. 

Salt and pepper to taste four pounds of beef. Slice in half 
six sweet potatoes, and put all into the bag. Add an 
eighth of a pound of butter, close the bag and cook for one 
hour. 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB. 

Salt and pepper the roast and put it into the bag. Add a 
quarter pound of butter, close the bag, and let cook for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

Take about one pound of beefsteak, half a pound of flour 
and four ounces of suet; cut the meat into thin slices and dip 
into a little seasoned flour, previously mixed with salt and 
pepper, on a plate. Roll up each with a small piece of fat 
inside. Chop the suet finely, mix with the flour and a pinch of 
salt; make into a stiff paste with about a gill of cold water, 
roll out and line with it a greased, shallow pudding basin, keeping 
back one-third for the cover; lay in pieces of meat and season. 
Pour in a little water, moisten the edges and cover the top 
with paste ;tie over with buttered paper, then place it in a good- 
sized bag and cook in hot oven for about an hour and three- 

17 



quarters. Remove the paper, unmould the pudding and dish 
up, or serve the pudding in a basin. 

BOILED HAM. 

One can hardly expect to get a large ham successfully 
cooked in a paper bag, but a portion, say about half a ham, or 
a small gammon, can be cooked to perfection. After soaking 
the ham or gammon in water for several hours wash it thor- 
oughly and enclose it in a well-greased paper bag with a 
sufficiency of water. Close it up secure^ and cook on a grid 
shelf in a moderate oven, it will take from an hour and three- 
quarters to two hours and a quarter for, say, four to six pounds 
of ham to cook, as the process must be necessarily a slow 
one. 

CURRIED VEAL. 

Cut about a pqjund of lean veal, filet or leg part, into small, 
thin slices, free from skin and sinews. Mix on a plate a table- 
spoonful of flour with a dessertspoonful of curry powder and a 
dessertspoonful of dessicated cocoanut. Season the meat with 
salt and pepper, add to it half a sour apple peeled and chopped, 
then mix with the curried flour, etc. Have read}' a well-buttered 
paper bag of the desired size, put in it the prepared meat, also 
about half a pint of cold water or stock. Close up the end of 
the bag and fasten carefully with wire clips. Turn in the four 
corners of the bag and place it on a grid shelf in a moderately 
heated oven and cook slowly for about 35 or 40 minutes. When 
done, take out the bag, slit it open and put its contents onto a hot 
dish. Sprinkle over a little lemon juice and serve with plainly- 
cooked rice. 

Note. — If white curry is desired use half milk and half 
water or white stock. 

MINCED MEAT. 

This is made from the remains of cold meat, beef, mutton, 
veal or pork. Trim off the superfluous fat and cut about a 
pound of the meat into slices and then into small discs. Season 
it with salt and pepper and sprinkle over a tablespoonful of 
flour. Mix in a small basin half a pint of stock or water, 
a teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar, the same of a good sauce 
or mushroom ketchup and a few slices of finely chopped onion. 
Stir this and mix with the minced meat. Then put all in a well- 
greased paper bag, fasten it securely, place it on a grid shelf 
in a fairly heated oven and cook for about 20 minutes. 

SWEETBREAD. 

The following ingredients are required for this dish: one 
sweetbread, two ounces butter, three slices of bacon, braising 
vegetables, the juice of half a lemon, seasoning and parsley for 
garnishing. 

Blanch the sweetbread, trim it and put it between two 
plates to press. When cold season to taste with salt and 
pepper, then put it with the butter, bacon and some sliced 
carrot, onion, bay leaf and the lemon juice into a well-buttered 
paper bag. Place this, when properly sealed up and fastened 
with wire clips, on a grid shelf and cook in a hot oven for about 
20 minutes. When cooked, take up the sweetbread, dish up, 

is 



pour over the liquid found in the bag, garnish with parsley 
and serve hot. 

SWEETBREADS IN CREAM WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Salt and pepper one pair of medium-sized sweetbreads. 
Cut in slices twelve large mushrooms, distribute the pieces over 
the sweetbreads and put into the bag. Then over the whole 
pour half a pint of thick cream. Seal the bag and cook for 45 
minutes. 

ESCALLOPED SWEETBREADS IN BUTTER. 

Cut a pair of sweetbreads in half, lengthwise. Salt and 
pepper and roll in flour. Pour over one egg, well beaten, and 
add a piece of butter size of a walnut. Roll the pieces in fresh 
bread crumbs. Put into the bag and cook 35 minutes. 

LAMB CHOPS WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Boil half a pint of peas for 15 minutes. Salt and pepper 
four lamb chops, put them in the bag and cover with the peas, 
Let cook for 5 minutes. 

VEAL CHOPS WITH TOMATOES. 

Take two large ripe tomatoes and skin, seed and cut them 
into quarters. Add a little parsley and half a chopped onion. 
Put two chops into the bag, salt and pepper them, and cover 
with the above preparation. Mix well and cook for 40 minutes. 

RACK OF LAMB BOULANGERE. 

To a rack of spring lamb containing six or eight chops, 
add salt and pepper, two small onions sliced, three potatoes cut 
into one-inch cubes, a piece of butter size of an egg and a 
tablespoon of water. Put the whole into the bag and cook for 
45 minutes. 

VEAL CUTLET MILANAISE. 

Season with pinches of salt and pepper two cutlets, roll in 
flour, and add one egg well beaten. Then roll in four table- 
spoons of fresh bread crumbs and two tablespoons of grated 
cheese. Add a piece of butter size of an egg, put into the bag, 
and cook for 35 minutes. 

PORK CHOPS CHAMPWELLON. 

Take four large chops, salt and pepper well, and pass in 
flour. Add two onions and four potatoes sliced thin. Then add 
two or three sprigs of parsley and a tablespoon of water. Put 
into the bag and cook for 45 minutes. 

KIDNEY (LAMB OR VEAL) MADEIRA. 

Cut the kidney diagonally in slices an inch thick. Slice 
in small pieces six mushrooms and distribute evenly. Add half a 
small glass of Madeira and two tablespoons of thick gravy. Put 
the whole into the bag and cook 8 to 10 minutes. 

BEEF STEW. 

Take two pounds of tender beef and cut into two-inch cubes. 
Salt and pepper and add twelve mushrooms, ten small onions 
and twelve pieces of bacon, sliced thin. Mix well and add half 
a glass of claret and one glass of thick gravy. Put into the 
bag and cook one hour. 

19 



IRISH STEW. 

Take three pounds of shoulder or breast of mutton and cut 
into small cubes. Add two white* onions, three potatoes of 
medium size, sliced thin, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Put the whole into the bag, then pour 
over one glass of water, or preferably, consomme, if on hand. 
Close bag and cook for an hour and a quarter. 

BEEF WITH CURRY. 

For two pounds of beef take two slices of ham, one small 
apple, one onion, one tomato, and two teaspoons of curry 
powder. Mix well together, then add one glass of thick gravy, 
and two tablespoons of thick cream. Put all into the bag and 
let cook one hour. 

SLICE OF SPRING LAMB IN BUTTER. 

Salt and pepper half a pound of leg of lamb. Add a piece 
of butter size of an egg, put into the bag and cook for 8 
minutes. 

TRIPE CREOLE. 

Weigh out a pound of tripe and slice in half-inch pieces. 
Chop one large onion, slice thick one small green pepper, add 
six mushrooms and two tomatoes, skinned, seeded and chopped. 
Salt and pepper the whole and mix with the tripe. Then add 
half a glass of thick gravy and cook for 45 minutes. 

MUTTON CHOPS PLAIN. 

To two large mutton chops add a piece of butter size of 
an egg. Add salt and pepper to taste, put into the bag, and 
cook for 8 minutes. 

SAUSAGE WITH TOMATOES. 

Put into the bag eight links of Deerfoot sausage. Chop 
fine together two tomatoes and one large onion, and put evenly 
over the sausage. Cook for 20 minutes. 

CALF'S BRAIN WITH BROWN BUTTER. 

Clean and wash thoroughly the brain, and salt and pepper 
well. Add a tablespoon of capers, together with two or three 
sprigs of parsley. Brown in the pan a piece of butter size of 
an egg, and pour over the whole mixture. Put into the bag 
and cook for 25 minutes. 

FILET OF VEAL (DUTCH STYLE). 

Cut a few filets of veal, season with salt and pepper, a few 
drops of lemon juice, cover with oily butter, and pass through 
crisp bread crumbs. Place in a buttered paper bag, with a 
teaspoonful of meat extract; fold and cook for 20 minutes. 

MUTTON CHOPS A LA MAGNY. 

Trim each chop, season with salt and pepper. Brush both 
sides with melted butter, place one slice of tomato, and one 
mushroom on top, add a teaspoonful of consomme or stock 
and a little coarsely chopped parsley. Put in a buttered bag, 
fold and fasten it, and cook in a hot oven 15 or 16 minutes. 

20 



CALF'S HEART WITH ONIONS. 

Remove blood vessels and fibrous parts from a calf's heart 
and wash thoroughly. Dry and fill with veal or fish stuffing. 
Cover the opening with slices of bacon tied or skewered into 
place, cover carefully with sifted flour highly seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Clean and slice one large Spanish onion and 
place both heart and onion in a thickly-buttered bag. Fold 
and fasten the bag and cook in a moderate oven for 1 hour. 

BEEF LEAF. 

Cut six slices of raw beefsteak very thin; flatten and season 
with salt and pepper. Make a dressing by chopping one ounce 
of bacon, one shallot (or one-quarter onion), a little parsley, 
one ounce ham and a few beef trimmings. Mix together with 
a little spice such as powdered thyme, marjoram and sage, a 
few bread crumbs and bind all together with an egg. Arrange 
alternate layers of steak and dressing, then roll up and truss 
firmly with a string. Place in a buttered bag with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and a teaspoonful of caramel. Fold and 
fasten bag and cook for 35 minutes in a moderate oven. 

MUTTON STEW. 

Cut four pounds of neck of mutton in inch cubes, trimming 
off all the fat. Add two finely chopped onions, two or three 
diced potatoes, two or three sliced tomatoes, and a few peas. 
Season with pepper and salt and dredge over the top one table- 
spoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of poultry seasoning. Put 
in a buttered bag, add one-half to three-quarters of a cup of 
cold water. Fold bag and fasten, and cook in a moderate oven 
35 or 40 minutes. It will then be ready to serve. Carrots and 
mushrooms may vary the seasoning. 

STEWED KIDNEYS. 

Prepare lambs' kidneys as usual. For a pair of kidneys, 
cut up in small pieces, add a sliced tomato, a few mushrooms, 
pepper and salt to taste and a tablespoonful of water. Put in 
well-buttered bag. Fold and fasten bag and cook for 5 to 10 
minutes in a hot oven. 

BANANAS WITH BACON. 

Split in half, lengthwise, six bananas (not over ripe), 
sprinkle with pepper and salt and on each place a strip of thinly 
sliced bacon, half and half, meat and fat. Place carefully in a 
buttered bag, fold and fasten and bake in a hot oven 10 or 12 
minutes. 



Poultrv and G 



ry ana vjame 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Cut the legs, close to the thighs, of a chicken, well trussed 
for roasting. Spread over the breast part a layer of butter or 
dripping, then put in a buttered paper bag, fold in the end 
and fasten with clips. Cook it on a grid shelf in a fairly hot 
oven for about 40 minutes; this is the time a moderate-sized 

21 



fowl will take. Take up the bird, remove the skewer and 
string and put it on a hot dish. Prepare some gravy as directed 
for roast meat. Garnish with watercress and serve with bread 
sauce. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

Careful cooks have always boiled fowls and chickens by 
previously wrapping them up in buttered paper, but boiling 
them in paper bags is more convenient and certainly cleaner. 
Procure the bird to be boiled ready trussed for boiling; rub 
the outside with a cut lemon, then put it in a well-buttered 
paper bag with a sliced onion, a piece of celery, a small peeled 
onion stuck with a clove and a small bunch of herbs, parsley, 
etc.; add also about a pint of salted water; fold in the bag and 
fasten well with wire clips, or, if, preferred, tie up the end with 
string. Put it on a grid shelf in a moderately-heated oven for 
about an hour or less, according to the size of the bird. Serve 
the chicken on a^iot dish with its gravy or liquor. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE, WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Cut a tender chicken into the usual joints, trim each neatly, 
and cut off any projecting bones. Season with salt and pepper 
and sprinkle over with very little flour, then dip each piece 
of chicken into clarified butter and slip into a well-oiled paper 
bag, together with a handful of finely sliced preserved mush- 
rooms, also a small onion stuck with a clove, half a carrot 
and a bouquet of parsley; pour over about a gill of stock. Close 
up the end of the bag, fold over and fasten with clips, then 
place on a wire grid and cook in a moderate oven from 35 to 
40 minutes, according to quantity cooked. Stir a yolk of egg 
in a small basin with three tablespoonfuls of cream. To this 
add the strained juice of half a lemon. Take the pieces of 
chicken out of the bag and dress them on a hot dish with the 
mushrooms. Remove the onion, carrot and parsley and strain 
the liquor remaining in the bag into the yolk of egg, etc. Mix 
thoroughly and pour over the chicken. Sprinkle with a little 
finely-chopped parsley and garnish with fleurons (half moons 
of puff pastry) and also, if liked, thin slices of lemon. 

CHICKEN SAUTE. 

Take the legs and wings of a medium-sized chicken and 
salt and pepper well. Add two or . three sprigs of parsley 
broken into small pieces, and one small onion chopped fine. 
Mix together with a piece of butter size of an egg, put into 
the bag, and cook for 25 minutes. 

RHODE ISLAND TURKEY PLAIN. 

Clean, wash and singe the turkey thoroughly. Add salt to 
taste together with a quarter pound of butter in the bag. Let 
cook for an hour and a half. 

STUFFED TURKEY WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Salt the turkey well. Then chop together one onion, one 
pound of sausage meat, one apple and three sprigs of parsley. 
Mix in with this one quart of fresh bread crumbs and one 

22 



pound of chestnuts. Stuff the turkey and put into the bag, 
with a quarter pound of butter. Cook for two and one-half 
hours. 

ROAST QUAIL WITH GRAPES. 
Clean the quail thoroughly, and cover with pieces of bacon 
sliced thin. Salt, and put into the bag with a little butter. 
Cook for 8 minutes Before closing the bag, add one-half pound 
of fresh Malaga grapes. 

ROAST PLOVER. 

Clean the bird carefully, salt, and cover the breast with 
thin slices of bacon. Put into the bag and cook for 8 minutes. 



Vegetable Recipes 

ONLY lately has any attempt been made to cook vegetables 
in paper bags. While it is not advisable to adopt this 
method for every kind of vegetable, the experiments 
made have proved that quite a number can be successfully 
cooked by the paper-bag process, notably so the following: 
Artichokes, broad beans, Brussels sprouts, beans, carrots, cauli- 
flower, celeriac, celery, cucumber, endive, chicory, seakale, 
mushrooms, parsnips, peas, potatoes, salsify and tomatoes. 
These must in each case be washed, trimmed and prepared the 
same as for an ordinary cooking process, duly seasoned and 
placed with a little water, and in some cases, butter as well, in a 
grease-proof paper bag (sealed up), and put in a moderately- 
heated oven on an iron grid, not a solid shelf, as is usually 
found in coal ovens. The heat will thus reach the contents of 
the bag from all sides and top and bottom. From 15 to 35 
minutes should be allowed to cook any kind of vegetable; some 
will take even less time. 

Dried peas, lentils and haricot beans are excellent cooked 
in paper bags, but they must be allowed to soak for rather 
longer than usual before cooking them. 

It is well to remember that all vegetables must undergo some 
kind of preparation, washing, draining, scraping, peeling, etc., 
before they can be cooked in the correct sense, and unless 
that is done well the success of a dish is often spoiled, so that 
the paper bag cannot be of much help unless that is done. 

Always cook the vegetables on the same day on which 
they are prepared and wanted for table. 

Vegetables of strong flavor, which include almost every 
kind of green vegetable, are not recommended to be cooked 
in a paper bag. They should be cooked in a large quantity of 
water, sufficient to well cover the articles to be cooked. 

The water in which they are cooked must be well seasoned 
with salt. About a teaspoonful to every quart of water is the 
average proportion used. 

As a much smaller quantity of water is used by the paper 
bag system than by the ordinary way, the liquor in which 
vegetables have been cooked is valuable and should be made 
use of. 

23 



BROAD BEANS. 

This is an excellent way of cooking young broad beans: shell 
them and put the beans with salted water in a buttered paper 
bag, seal it up and cook on a grid shelf for 20 minutes in a 
moderate oven. Mix a little of the stock or liquor of the beans 
and a tablespoonful of cream with the yolk of an egg, and 
add a little chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Dish up the beans and pour over the prepared sauce. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash and scrape, or peel thinly, one to one and one-halt 
pounds of new potatoes; parboil them for a few minutes in 
salted water; then drain, sprinkle over with butter and put 
them into a buttered grease-proof paper bag. Fasten the bag 
securely and place on a grid or trivet in a hot oven and bake 
for 25 or 30 minutes. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Wash and peel thinly four or five potatoes and cut them 
into very thin slices. Put them on a cloth and drain thoroughly 
so as to absorb all the moisture. Have ready a well-buttered, 
paper bag, put in the prepared potato chips and close up the 
bag. Fasten the end with clips and place on a grid shelf in a 
hot oven. Cook thus for about fifteen minutes, turning the 
once or twice during this period. The potato chips will 
be found quite crisp by this time. Open the bag, season the 
chips with fine salt and dish them up. 

SAUTE POTATOES. 

This is an excellent way of reheating cold potatoes. If 
the potatoes are not peeled, peel them and slice them thinly, 
season with salt and pepper. Have ready a parjer bag of the 
desired size; pour over the sliced potatoes a liberal quantity 
of melted butter and put them in a well-buttered paper bag, 
fasten the end, place it on a grid shelf and cook in a fairly hot 
oven about 18 or 20 minutes. Turn the' bag several times. 

POTATOES AU MAITRE D'HOTEL 

Cut some cold potatoes into slices, not too thin; season 
them with salt and pepper and a little nutmeg. Sprinkle over 
half a tablespoonful of flour to each pound of potatoes, also 
a tablespoonful of oil or butter, then put them in a buttered 
paper bag with a gill and a half of milk. Close up the bag 
securely and place it on a wire grid in a moderately heated 
oven for about 20 minutes. Slit open the bag and put the 
potatoes with the sauce on a hot dish. Sprinkle over some 
finely chopped parsley and serve. 

TOMATOES WITH BACON. 

Remove the stems from six or eight ripe but firm tomatoes, 
wipe them and dip each in hot water for a few minutes, then 
skin carefully. Cut half a pound of bacon into thin slice-, 
pat out each slice and roll up half a tomato in each, after having 
seasoned them with salt and pepper and sprinkled over a little 
chopped parsley. Place carefully in a greased paper bag, fold 
over the end of the bag and fasten with clips or large pins, then 



put it on a grid shelf in a hot oven and cook for about 15 
minutes. Break or slit the bag, put the contents carefully on 
a hot dish and serve. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut six tomatoes into halves, season them with pepper and 
salt and sprinkle bread crumbs over them; put small pieces 
of butter here and there on them. Place them in a buttered 
paper bag, close it up securely, put it on a wire grid and bake 
in a fairly hot oven for about 20 minutes. Dish up the tomatoes 
and serve hot. 

BOILED RICE. 

Rice can be satisfactorily cooked in a paper bag. After 
picking it over and washing it in several waters it should be 
soaked for several hours. It is then put in a well-greased 
paper bag with water, proportion being half a pint of water 
to four ounces of rice; fold in and fasten the end of the bag, 
put it on a grid shelf and cook in a moderate oven for about 
25 minutes. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell one pint of green peas, put into a quart-sized paper 
bag, previously buttered, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a sprig 
of green mint, and about a gill of water; fold the ends of the 
bag carefully and clip tightly, place it on a grid shelf in a 
moderate oven and cook for about 35 minutes. To serve, slit 
open the paper bag and pour the peas on to a hot dish. 

SAVOURY CABBAGE. 

Wash and trim a young cabbage, remove the stalk portion, 
and cut the remainder into shreds. Take three slices of streaky 
bacon and cut them crossways into strips; mix these with the 
cabbage, season with salt, and put all in* a buttered paper 
bag, with about three-quarters of a pint of water and a tea- 
spoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Close up the bag securely, 
place it on a wire grid, and cook in a moderately heated oven 
for about 40 minutes; dish up the cabbage and serve hot. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tops off from six large ripe tomatoes, and seed and 
skin them. Chop separately one small onion, two hard-boiled 
eggs, two tomatoes and several sprigs of parsley. Then mix 
all together and salt and pepper thoroughly. Then mix together 
three tablespoons of fresh bread crumbs and one raw egg, 
and stir this into the whole. Stuff the tomatoes, put the tops 
on, and put into the bag with butter size of an egg. Let cook 
from 15 to 20 minutes. 

TOMATOES AU GRATIN. 

Cut in two and seed six tomatoes and put in the same 
ingredients as above, but add two tablespoons of grated cheese. 
Stuff, and add a pinch of fresh bread crumbs on top of each 
tomato. Put into the bag with a small piece of butter, and 
cook for 15 minutes in hot oven. 

25 



TOMATOES IN BUTTER. 

Cut six large tomatoes in half, skin, seed, and salt and 
pepper well. Add parsley in small quantities. Butter each one 
thoroughly outside and in, put into the bag and let cook 12 
minutes. 

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. 

Toast lightly and butter two slices of bread. Place eight 
mushrooms on each and salt and pepper to taste. Put into the 
bag and cook for 8 minutes. 

MUSHROOMS IN CREAM. 

Clean and skin eighteen mushrooms, and salt and pepper 
well. Add half a pint of thick cream together with butter 
size of an egg. Put into the bag and cook 15 minutes. 

SUMMER SQUASH IN BUTTER. 

Cut a medium-sized squash into narrow strips, about half 
an inch in width, salt and pepper each carefully, and put into 
the bag. Add a piece of butter size of an egg, and cook for 
30 minutes. 

GREEN CORN PLAIN. 

Let the inside husk remain on two full ears of corn. Add 
a pinch of salt to each, and one glass of water in the bag. 
Cook for 40 minutes. 

CORN WITH GREEN PEPPERS. 

Take one can of corn and mix well with one green pepper 
sliced thin. Add salt to taste and half a pint of thick cream. 
Put into the bag and cook for 20 minutes. 

CORN IN BUTTER. 

To a can of corn add salt and pepper, with butter size of an 
egg- Cook the whole in the bag for IS minutes. 

GREEN PEAS PLAIN. 

Take one pint of peas, add one glass of water and salt well. 
Put into the bag and cook one hour. 

(String beans may be cooked in the same manner.) 

SPINACH. 

Clean and dry thoroughly two quarts of spinach. Sprinkle 
with salt, add a pinch of sugar, and put into the bag. Cook for 
forty minutes, then take the bag from the oven and place 
a piece of butter size of an egg in a hole in the center of th? 
spinach. It is then ready to serve. 

HASHED POTATOES IN CREAM. 

Peel and hash three boiled potatoes, salt well, add half a 
pint of thick cream, put the whole into the bag and let cook 
for 10 minutes. 

EGGS AND SPINACH. 

Take a pint of dry spinach, chopped fine, and put into a 
small saucepan. Add a piece of butter, size of an egg, and two 

2fi 



or three tablespoons of thick cream, according to the con- 
sistency of the spinach. Cook for five minutes. Then take four 
tablespoons of the chopped spinach in cream, add a pinch of 
salt, and put into the bag. Break two eggs over the prepara- 
tion, close the bag, and cook for two minutes. 

EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, 
add a can of asparagus tips, together with one tablespoonful 
of thick cream. Stir well for five minutes, and put into the bag. 
Break two eggs over the asparagus, close the bag and cook for 
two minutes. 



Dessert Recipes. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Sift half a pound of flour onto a pastry board, make a well 
in the centre, add a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice and about a gill of cold water. Knead the paste thoroughly 
and roll out into an oblong strip. Next put six ounces of fresh 
butter into a cloth, knead a little so as to squeeze out any 
moisture, and shape it into a flat cake. Place the butter in the 
centre of the prepared paste, wet the edges with a brush dipped 
in cold water and fold over so as to completely inclose the 
butter. Now roll it out very carefully, fold it into three and roll 
out into an oblong shape again; continue this about four or five 
times, setting the paste aside in a cool place for about 15 minutes 
between each turn. Before using it should be allowed to stand 
for at least half an hour. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT TARTLETS. 

-Roll out, not too thinly, half a pound or more of puff paste, 
and line with it the required number of small pastry hoops or 
tartlet moulds. Fill these with rice or dried peas and slip into 
a paper bag; prick the top of the bag with a skewer, and bake 
on a grid in a moderate oven for about 12 minut'es, or until the 
paste has acquired a golden color. Take out the rice or j>eas 
and fill the tartlet crusts with prepared raspberries and currants; 
pour over a little prepared syrup and place in the oven again 
for a few minutes to get hot. Sprinkle over with powdered 
sugar and serve. 

FRENCH CHERRY TARTS. 

Roll out thinly some puff paste, and line with it a large pastry 
hoop or flat cake tin. Fill this with stoned cherries and sprinkle 
over with castor sugar mixed with a little ground cinnamon. 
Slip this into a paper bag, fold in the ends and fasten with clips, 
and bake for about 15 to 20 minutes. When baked, take out 
of the bag, pour over some well-reduced syrup, and serve. 

SV/EET BANANA PASTIES. 
Roll out some rough puff paste and cut it into oblong 
pieces or squares of even size. Spread the centre of each piece 

27 



of paste with a little apricot marmalade, upon this put half a 
banana not too ripe, and sprinkle over with powdered sugar 
mixed with ground cinnamon. Wet the edges of the paste, fold 
over and press the ends. Now brush over with a little milk 
and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Then place the prepared 
pasties in a buttered paper bag and bake on a grid shelf in a 
fairly hot oven for from 10 to 12 minutes. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Get ready the following ingredients: half a pound of flour, 
one large teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, three 
ounces of butter, two eggs, four ounces of sugar, four ounces 
of currants and about half a teacup of milk. 

Mix the flour, salt and baking powder, rub in the butter, 
add the sugar ancL cleaned currants. Make into a fairly stiff 
paste, with the eggs and milk previously beaten up. Bake for 
about 25 minutes in a well-buttered paper bag, placed on a 
wire grid in a fairly hot oven. 

APPLES IN BUTTER. 

Take two green apples, core them, and put a teaspoon of 
sugar in each core.. Put them into the bag, add a little butter, 
and two tablespoons of water. Cook 20 to 30 minutes. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

For the dumplings, take one pound of flour, two quarts 
of water, one-third pound of lard, two-thirds pound of butter, 
one tablespoon of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Mix these together, 
then beat together the yolk of one egg and half a pint of 
milk. With the latter paint the dumplings with a light brush. 
Peel two large green apples, core and sugar them. Add a 
small piece of butter, and put them into the dumplings. Put 
into the bag, with two tablespoons of water, and cook 30 to 35 
minutes. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

To one quart of hot milk, stir in three or four ounces of 
sugar. Then add three eggs well beaten and a few drops of 
vanilla. Put into the bag one quart of white bread cut into 
one-inch cubes- together with two ounces of raisins, and pour 
the above over all. Cook for 8 minutes. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

To one and one-half pints of hot milk, add one-quarter pound 
of farina and two ounces of sugar. Mix the milk and sugar first. 
Cook for 8 minutes. Then add four eggs, well beaten, and mix 
the whole together. Put into the bag and cook for 10 minutes. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Dissolve three ounces of sugar in a pint of hot milk, and add 
a pinch of salt. Then put in a quarter pound of tapioca and 
one egg well beaten. Put the whole into the bag and cook for 
30 minutes. 

LEMON DUMPLINGS. 

Four ounces of bread crumbs, same of chopped suet; add 
powdered sugar, one lemon and the rind grated, mix with one 

28 



egg, make into dumplings. Put into a buttered paper bag, and 
cook for 10 minutes. Serve with maple syrup and honey. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Take three-quarters of a pint of milk, one ounce of crushed 
or flaked tapioca, one ounce of castor sugar, one egg, flavoring 
essence. Put the tapioca to soak in hot milk for 20 minutes, 
then add the sugar and the beaten egg, also a few drops of 
flavoring essence. Butter a shallow pie dish, pour in the 
mixture, then put it in a paper bag, fold the end to close up 
stcurely, and bake for about 20 minutes. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 

Put two ounces of hominy into a basin and pour over three- 
quarters of a pint of boiling milk and let it soak for half an 
hour. Beat in one egg, then add half an ounce of shredded 
beef suet and one ounce of castor sugar, also a few drops of 
flavoring essence. Pour the mixture into a greased shallow 
pie dish, then place it in a paper bag, fold in the end to close 
up securely with clips, place on a grid shelf in a fairly fast 
oven and bake for 15 minutes. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Take four ounces of grated fresh cocoanut, with two ounces 
of castor sugar, creamed up with two ounces of butter, stir 
well, add two ounces of cake crumbs, also the whisked whites 
of three eggs, half a wineglassful of sherry or brandy, and 
half a teaspoonful of orange water. Line the edges of a shallow 
pie dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, sprinkle over with 
castor sugar, then place the dish in a paper bag, seal it up well, 
and put it on a wire grid shelf and bake in a moderate oven for 
about 35 minutes. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Get ready the following ingredients: half a pound of flour, 
quarter of a pound of butter, half a teaspoonful of baking 
powder, six small cooking apples, brown sugar, and two ounces 
of currants. Sift the flour with the baking powder into a basin, 
add a pinch of salt, and rub in the butter lightly; moisten with 
enough water to make a stiff smooth paste. Peel and core the 
apples, roll out the paste about a sixth of an inch thick, cut out 
twelve rounds, each large enough to wrap up half an apple; 
put a teaspoonful of moist sugar and a few currants in the 
cavity of each apple, wet the edges of the paste, and wrap the 
apples in the paste, using two rounds for each. Care must be 
taken, so that the edges are well joined, brush over with water, 
sprinkle with castor sugar, place the prepared dumplings in 
a well-greased paper bag on a wire, grid, prick the paper here 
and there with a fork, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about 
30 minutes. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Peel four or five ripe apples and slice lengthwise, or divide 
each with a cutter, and fill the cavities with currants and 
powdered sugar, pour a little melted butter over each apple, 

29 



and place them in a buttered paper bag, close it up securely, 
put it on a wire grid and bake in a moderate oven for 20 

minutes. 

BAKED ROLY PUDDING. . 

Rub three ounces of beef dripping into half a pound of 
flour and mix with milk or water to a fairly stiff paste. Roll 
it out on a floured board and spread thinly with jam. Roll it 
up carefully, put it in a well-buttered paper bag, and bake on 
a grid shelf for about three-quarters of an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

BANANA SOUFFLE. 

Take four bananas, not overripe, peel them, put them in 
a pie dish, and pour over a little lemon juice. Have ready a 
buttered souffle #dish. Separate the yolks from two eggs, 
adding two ounces of castor sugar, and beat up to a cream. 
Next cream up in a basin two ounces of fresh butter, add slowly 
two ounces of sifted flour, then stir in the yolk of eggs. When 
well mixed add the bananas, previously passed through a sieve. 
Beat all together, lastly add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 
Put the souffle quickly in a paper bag, fold and fasten the end 
of the bag with clips. Bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. 
Send the souffle to table quickly. 

Bananas served in this way can be easily digested by the 
most delicate person, and are always received with delight. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Take two eggs, their weight in butter, powdered sugar and 
ordinary flour, the grated rind of two oranges and one table- 
spoonful of milk. 

Beat up the eggs, cream together the butter and the sugar; 
mix the flour with the baking powder; add the flour and the 
eggs alternately to the creamed butter, mix well, then stir 
in the orange rind. Pour into a buttered and floured paper bag, 
close up the end and fasten with clips and bake on a wire tray 
in a moderately heated oven for about 18 minutes. 



TIME TABLE 

FISH 

7 lbs 50 minutes 

3 " 30 

1 " 18 

X A " or filleted fish 6 

MEATS 

Beef. 9 lbs 1^ hours 

4 " I 

3 " 45 minutes 

Short Ribs of beef 40 

Veal, 7 lbs 1% hours 

chops 35 minutes 

kidneys 25 

Pork. 3 to 4 lbs 1 hour 

" tenderloin 45 minutes 

chops 45 

sliced ham 25 

Spare Ribs 45 

Mutton or Lamb— leg 8 lbs 1% hours 

— '* 3 to 4 lbs 1 

— shoulder, 5 lbs 1 

— 3 " 50 minutes 

chops 20 " 

loin 1 Y 2 hours 

Lamb Kidneys 25 minutes 

Braised calves liver (whole) 1 hour 

Calves liver and bacon 30 minutes 

Hamburg Steak 25 

POULTRY 

Chicken, large ' 1 hour 

Young Chicken 40 minutes 

Spring " 25 

Old " • 1% hours 

Duck 35 minutes 

Old Duck iK hours 

Turkey (stuffed) 16X18 lbs 2 hours 

(not stuffed) 1% '] 

Goose (young one) J K 

(ordinary size) J /2 

Pigeon (young) 12 minutes 

(old) 30 

10 minutes should be allowed for Quail and all kinds of small birds. 

VEGETABLES 

Peas 40 minutes 

Small Onions 30 

Stuffed Tomatoes 25 

Spinach— no liquid but moisture remaining after washing 30 minutes 

-r, 4. ,. J Pared, around roast, 1 hour 

Potatoes -j Baked ! •' 

Bread 50 to 60 minutes 

Rolls 25 

Pastry, etc., allow 10 minutes less than any other method. 



and place them in a buttered pap«r bag, close it up securely, 
put it on a wire grid and bake in a moderate oven for 20 
minutes. 

BAKED ROLY PUDDING. . 

Rub three ounces of beef dripping into half a pound of 
flour and mix with milk or water to a fairly stiff paste- Roll 
it out on a floured board and spread thinly with jam. Roll it 
up carefully, put it in a well-buttered paper bag, and bake on 
a grid shelf for about three-quarters of an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

BANANA SOUFFLE. 

Take four bananas, not overripe, peel them, put them in 
a pie dish, and pour over a little lemon juice. Have ready a 
buttered souffle #dish. Separate the yolks from two eggs, 
adding two ounces of castor sugar, and beat up to a cream. 
Next cream up in a basin two ounces of fresh butter, add slowly 
two ounces of sifted flour, then stir in the yolk of eggs. When 
well mixed add the bananas, previously passed through a sieve. 
Beat all together, lastly add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 
Put the souffle quickly in a paper bag, fold and fasten the end 
of the bag with clips. Rake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. 
Send the souffle to table quickly. 

Bananas served in this way can be easily digested by the 
most delicate person, and are always received with delight. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Take two eggs, their weight in butter, powdered sugar and 
ordinary flour, the grated rind of two oranges and one table- 
spoonful of milk. 

Beat up the eggs, cream together the butter and the sugar; 
mix the flour with the baking powder; add the flour and the 
eggs alternately to the creamed butter, mix well, then stir 
in the orange rind. Pour into a buttered and floured paper bag, 
close up the end and fasten with clips and bake on a wire tray 
in a moderately heated oven for about 18 minutes. 



TIME TABLE 

FISH 

7 lbs ?0 minutes 

3 " 30 

I " 18 

Vi " or filleted fish 6 

MEATS 

Beef, 9 lbs i% hours 

4 " I 

3 ' 45 minutes 

Short Ribs of beef 40 

Veal, 7 lbs 1% hours 

chops 35 minutes 

kidneys 25 

Pork, 3 to 4 lbs 1 hour 

tenderloin 45 minutes 

chops 45 

sliced ham 25 " 

Spare Ribs 45 " 

Mutton or Lamb— leg 8 lbs i l / 2 hours 

— " 3 to 4 lbs 1 

— shoulder, 5 lbs 1 

— 3 " 50 minutes 

chops 20 " 

loin 1 Yz hours 

Lamb Kidneys 25 minutes 

Braised calves liver (whole) 1 hour 

Calves liver and bacon 30 minutes 

Hamburg Steak 25 

POULTRY 

Chicken, large ■ 1 hour 

Young Chicken , 40 minutes 

Spring " 25 

Old " • 1 V\ hours 

Duck 35 minutes 

Old Duck \V\ hours 

Turkey (stuffed) 16X18 lbs 2 hours 

(not stuffed) i/^ '] 

Goose (young one) J % 

(ordinary size) *% 

Pigeon (young) 12 minutes 

(old) 30 

10 minutes should be allowed for Quail and all kinds of small birds. 

VEGETABLES 

p eas 40 minutes 

Small Onions 30 

Stuffed Tomatoes 25 

Spinach— no liquid but moisture remaining after washing 30 minutes 

•p~*.,*-~*,o J Pared, around roast 1 h°. ur 

Potatoes i Baked 

Bread 50 to 60 minutes 

Rolls 25 

Pastry, etc., allow 10 minutes less than any other method. 



31 



APR 15 1912 

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 631 775 3 



