
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




0D0DE51E452 












♦ 4. v ^ * 




£&. %,/ .<&£&. V,«° .'2^& %>/ 



Ajtffc:.**. «y^:..V >**.*»*:.** 






<* *• 



4 -.v ^ *; 






o,. *'7Vi* .A 



^ ••. 



i ••J^l* °v: 









«' 



• if *« 



















V * * • •* c> 










, " * 



*^ *\ 



y ..^ % % 



<> *«•** ^o 



£ . 0« 



40, 



;. ** « :« 



: • *p ~* 






><* 






l/> 



y . • • • 'i 



.*» ..w., ^. 



* V ..' 



K ol? 



". «bV' 










MANY WAYS 

FOR 

COOKING EGGS 



By MRS. S. T. RORER 

Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book, 
Philadelphia Cook Book, Bread and Bread- 
Making, and other Valuable Works on 
Cookery. 



Revised and Enlarged Edition 



PHILADELPHIA 

ARNOLD AND COMPANY 

420 SANSOM STREET 



T* 74-S 

,R* 



Copyright, 1907, 1912, by Mrs. S. T. Rorer 
All Rights Reserved 



Printed at the Sign of the Ivy Leaf 
in Sansom Street. Philadelphia 
by George H Buchanan Company 

6CLA312469 
no. \ 



CONTENTS 

Sauces 5 

English Drawn Butter ; Plain Hollandaise ; An- 
chovy, Bechamel, Tarragon, Horseradish, Cream 
or White, Brown Butter, Perigueux, Tomato, Pap- 
rika, Curry, Italian 

Cooking of Eggs 12 

To Preserve Eggs, Egging and Crumbing, Shirred 
Eggs, Mexicana, Oh a Plate, de Lesseps, Meyer- 
beer, a la Reine, au Miroir, a la Paysanne, a la 
Trinidad, Rossini, Baked in Tomato Sauce, a la 
Martin, a la Valenciennes, Fillets, a la Suisse, with 
Nut-Brown Butter, Timbales, Coquelicot, Suzette, 
en Cocotte. Steamed in the Shell, Birds' Nests, 
Eggs en Panade, Egg Pudding, a la Bonne Femme, 
To Poach Eggs, Eggs Mirabeau, Norwegian, Pres- 
court, Courtland, Louisiana, Richmond, Hungarian, 
Nova Scotia, Lakme, Malikoff, Virginia, Japanese, 
a la Windsor, Buckingham, Poached on Fried 
Tomatoes, a la Finnois, a la Gretna, a l'lmperatrice, 
with Chestnuts, a la Regence, a la Livingstone, 
Mornay, Zanzibar, Monte Bello, a la Bourbon, Ber- 
naise, a la Rorer, Benedict, To Hard-boil, Creole, 
Curried, Beauregard, Lafayette, Jefferson, Wash- 
ington, au Gratin, Deviled, a la Tripe, a l'Aurore, 
a la Dauphin, a la Bennett, Brouilli, Scalloped, 
Farci, Balls, Deviled Salad, Japanese Hard, en 



4 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Marinade, a la Polonnaise, a la Hyde, a la Vinai- 
grette, a la Russe, Lyonnaise, Croquettes, Chops, 
Plain Scrambled, Scrambled with Chipped Beef, 
Scrambled with Lettuce, Scrambled with Shrimps, 
Scrambled with Fresh Tomatoes, Scrambled with 
Rice and Tomato, Scrambled with Asparagus Tips, 
Egg Flip 

Omelets , , yo 

Omelet with Asparagus Tips, with Green Peas, 
Havana, with Tomato Sauce, with Oysters, with 
Sweetbreads, with Tomatoes, with Ham, with 
Cheese, with Fine Herbs, Spanish, Jardiniere, with 
Fresh Mushrooms, O'Brien, with Potatoes 

Sweet Omelets . . . 79 

Omelet a la Washington, with Rum, Swiss Souffle, 
a la Duchesse, Souffle 



SAUCES 

The philosophy of a sauce, when under- 
stood, enables even an untrained cook to 
make a great variety of every day sauces 
from materials usually found in every house- 
hold ; to have them uniform, however, flavor- 
ings must be correctly blended, and measure- 
ments must be rigidly observed. Two level 
tablespoonfuls of butter or other fat, two 
level tablespoonfuls of flour, must be used to 
each half pint of liquid. If the yolks of eggs 
are added, omit one tablespoonful of flour or 
the sauce will be too thick. Tomato sauce 
should be flavored with onion, a little mace, 
and a suspicion of curry. Brown sauce may 
be simply seasoned with salt and pepper, 
flavored and colored with kitchen bouquet. 
Spanish sauce should also be flavored with 
mushrooms, or if you can afford it, a truffle, 
a little chopped ham, a tablespoonful of 
chives, shallot and garlic. Water sauce, 
drawn butter and simple sauce Hollandaise, 
when they are served with fish, must be fla- 
vored with a dash of tarragon vinegar, salt 
and pepper. 



6 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

English Drawn Butter 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter 
y 2 pint of boiling water 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
x / 2 teaspoonful of salt 

I dash of pepper 

Rub two tablespoonfuls of butter and the 
flour together, add the boiling water, stir 
until boiling, add the salt and pepper; take 
from the fire, add the remaining tablespoon- 
ful of butter and it is ready for use. It must 
not be boiled after the last butter is added. 



Plain Sauce Hollandaise 

Make English drawn butter and add to 
it, when done, the yolks of two eggs beaten 
with two tablespoonfuls of water ; cook until 
thick and jelly-like, take from the fire and 
add one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar 
or the juice of half a lemon 



Anchovy Sauce 

Rub two teaspoonfuls of anchovy essence 
with the butter and flour and then finish the 
same as English drawn butter. 



SAUCES 7 

Sauce Bechamel 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

i yolk of an tgg 
y 2 cup of milk 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

i tablespoonful of flour 
y 2 cup of stock 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

Rub the butter and flour together, add 
the stock and the milk and stir until boiling ; 
add the salt and pepper, take from the fire 
and add the beaten yolk of the egg, heat for 
a moment over hot water, and it is ready 
for use. 

Tarragon Sauce 

Add two tablespoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar to an English drawn butter. 



Horseradish Sauce 

Make an English drawn butter, and, 
just at serving time, add a half cupful of 
freshly grated horseradish. If you are 
obliged to use that preserved in vinegar, 
press it perfectly dry before using it. 



8 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Cream or White Sauce 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
\]/2 pint of milk 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Rub the butter and flour togetner, add 
the milk cold and stir until boiling; add the 
pepper and salt and it is ready for use. 



Brown Butter Sauce 

6 tablespoonfuls of butter 

I teaspoonful of mushroom catsup 

i tablespoonful of vinegar 

4 tablespoonfuls of stock 

Melt the butter, brown it and then skim ; 
pour it carefully into a clean saucepan, add 
the vinegar, catsup and stock, boil a minute, 
and it is ready for use. 



SAUCES 9 

Sauce Perigueux 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter 
x /z pint of stock 

i glass of white wine 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

i bay leaf 

2 chopped truffles 

I saltspoonful of pepper 

i teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet 

Chop the truffles and put them with the 
bay leaf and wine in a saucepan on the back 
of the stove. Rub half the butter and flour 
together, add the stock, stir until boiling and 
add one teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, the 
salt and pepper, and then the truffles; cook 
ten minutes, add the remaining quantity of 
butter and use at once. 



Tomato Sauce 

Rub together two level tablespoonfuls of 
flour and two of butter. Add a half pint of 
strained tomatoes. Stir until boiling. Add 
a teaspoonful of onion juice, a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Strain and use. 



10 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Paprika Sauce 

Rub together two level tablespoonfuls of 
flour and two of butter, with a tablespoonful 
of paprika. Add a half pint of chicken stock. 
Stir until boiling. Add a half teaspoonful 
of salt, and strain. This sauce may be used 
over chicken as well as eggs. 



Curry Sauce 

Chop fine one onion. Cook it with two 
level tablespoonfuls of butter until soft. Do 
not brown. Add two level tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of curry powder and a 
half teaspoonful of salt. Mix and add a half 
pint of boiling water. Stir until boiling, and 
strain. 

Italian Sauce 

Chop sufficient carrot to make a table- 
spoonful; chop one onion. Place them in a 
saucepan with three level tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a bay leaf and a blade of mace. 
Shake the pan over the fire until the vege- 
tables are slightly browned. Drain off the 



SAUCES 1 1 

butter and add to it two level tablespoonfuls 
of flour, a half cupful of good stock, a half 
cupful of strained tomatoes, and bring to a 
boil. Add a half teaspoonful of salt and a 
dash of cayenne. Strain. Stir until boil- 
ing, strain again and add four tablespoonfuls 
of sherry. 



COOKING OF EGGS 

Any single food containing all the ele- 
ments necessary to supply the requirements 
of the body is called a complete or typical 
food. Milk and eggs are frequently so 
called, because they sustain the young ani- 
mals of their kind during a period of rapid 
growth. Nevertheless, neither of these foods 
forms a perfect diet for the human adult. 
Both are highly nutritious, but incomplete. 

Served with bread or rice, they form an 
admirable meal and one that is nutritious 
and easily digested. The white of eggs, al- 
most pure albumin, is nutritious, and, when 
cooked in water at 170 Fahrenheit, requires 
less time for perfect digestion than a raw 
egg. The white of a hard-boiled egg is 
tough and quite insoluble. The yolk, how- 
ever, if the boiling has been done carefully 
for twenty minutes, is mealy and easily di- 
gested. Fried eggs, no matter what fat is 
used, are hard, tough and insoluble. The 
yolk of an egg cooks at a lower temperature 



COOKING OF EGGS 1 3 

than the white, and for this reason an egg 
should not be boiled unless the yolk alone is 
to be used. 

Ten eggs are supposed to weigh a pound, 
and, unless they are unusually large or small, 
this is quite correct. 

Eggs contain from 72 to 84 per cent, of 
water, about 12 to 14 per cent, of albu- 
minoids. The yolk is quite rich in fat; the 
white deficient. They also contain mineral 
matter and extractives. 

To ascertain the freshness of an egg 
without breaking it, hold your hand around 
the egg toward a bright light or the sun and 
look through it. If the yolk appears quite 
round and the white clear, it is fresh. Or, 
if you put it in a bucket of water and it falls 
on its side, it is fresh. If it sort of topples 
in the water, standing on its end, it is fairly 
fresh, but, if it floats, beware of it. The 
shell of a fresh egg looks dull and porous. 
As it begins to age, the shell takes on a shiny 
appearance. If an egg is kept any length of 
time, a portion of its water evaporates, which 
leaves a space in the shell, and the egg will 
"rattle." An egg that rattles may be per- 
fectly good, and still not absolutely fresh. 



14 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

To Preserve Eggs 

To preserve eggs it is only necessary to 
close the pores of the shells. This may be 
done by dipping them in melted paraffine, or 
packing them in salt, small ends down; or 
pack them in a keg and cover them with 
brine; or pack them in a keg, small ends 
down and cover them with lime water; this 
not only protects them from the air, but acts 
as a germicide. 

Eggs should not be packed for winter 
use later than the middle of May or earlier 
than the first of April. Where large quan- 
tities of the yolks are used, the whites may 
be evaporated and kept in glass bottles or 
jars. Spread them out on a stoneware or 
granite plate and allow them to evaporate 
at the mouth of a cool oven. When the mix- 
ture is perfectly dry, put it away. This pow- 
der is capable of taking up the same amount 
of water that has been evaporated from it, 
and may then be used the same as fresh 
whites. 



COOKING OF EGGS 1 5 

Egging and Crumbing 

To do this successfully one must prepare 
a mixture, and not use the tgg alone. If an 
egg mixture or a croquette is dipped in 
beaten egg and rolled in cracker crumbs and 
dropped into fat, it always has a greasy 
covering. This is the wrong way. To do 
it successfully and have the articles hand- 
some, beat the egg until well mixed, add a 
teaspoonful of olive oil, a tablespoonful of 
water and a dash of pepper. Dip the articles 
into this mixture, and then drop them on 
quite a thick bed of either sifted dry bread 
crumbs or soft white bread crumbs. 

I prefer sifted dry bread crumbs for cro- 
quettes, and soft white crumbs for lobster 
cutlets and deviled crabs. 

Shirred Eggs 

Cover the bottoms of individual dishes 
with a little butter and a few fresh bread 
crumbs ; drop into each dish two fresh eggs ; 
stand this dish in a pan of hot water and 
cook in the oven until the whites are "set." 
Put a tiny bit of butter in the middle of each, 
and a dusting of salt and pepper. 



l6 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs Mexicana 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
saucepan. Add four tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped onion and shake until the onion is 
soft, but not brown. Then add four Spanish 
peppers cut in strips, a dash of red pepper 
and a half pint of tomatoes; the tomatoes 
should be in rather solid pieces. Add a sea- 
soning of pepper and salt. Let this cook 
slowly while you shir the desired quantity of 
eggs. When the eggs are ready to serve, 
put two tablespoonfuls of this sauce at each 
side of the dish, and send at once to the 
table. 

Eggs on a Plate 

Rub the bottom of a baking dish with 
butter. Dust it lightly with salt and pepper. 
Break in as many fresh eggs as required. 
Stand the dish in a basin of water and cook 
in the oven five minutes, or until the whites 
are "set." While these are cooking, put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter in a pan and shake 
over the fire until it browns. When the eggs 
are done, baste them with the browned but- 
ter, and send to the table. 



COOKING OF EGGS 1 7 

Eggs de Lesseps 

Shir the eggs as directed. Have ready, 
carefully boiled, two sets of calves' brains; 
cut them into slices; put two or three slices 
between the eggs, and then pour over 
browned butter sauce 



Eggs Meyerbeer 

To each half dozen eggs allow three 
lambs' kidneys. Broil the kidneys. Shir the 
eggs as directed in the first recipe. When 
done, put half a kidney on each side of the 
plate and oour over sauce Perigueux. 



Eggs a la Reine 

6 eggs 

Yz pint of chopped cold cooked chicken 

^2 can of mushrooms 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

y 2 pint of milk 

Yz teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Use ordinary shirring dishes ior the 
eggs; butter them, break into each one egg, 



1 8 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

stand these in a pan of boiling water and in 
the oven until they are "set." Rub the but- 
ter and flour together, add the milk, stir until 
boiling, add the salt, pepper, chopped chicken 
and mushrooms, and put one tablespoonful 
of this on top of each egg and send at once 
to the table. This is also nice if you put a 
tablespoonful of the mixture in the bottom 
of the dish, break the egg into it, and then 
at serving time put another tablespoonful 
over the top. 

Eggs au Miroir 

Cover the bottom of a graniteware or 
silver platter with fresh bread crumbs, break 
in as many eggs as are needed for the num- 
ber of persons to be served. Put bits of but- 
ter here and there, stand the platter over a 
baking pan of hot water in the oven until the 
eggs are "set," dust them with salt and pep- 
per and send them to the table. 



COOKING OF EGGS 19 

Eggs a la Paysanne 

6 eggs 
y 2 cupful of cream 

2 tablespoonfuls of grated onion 

I clove of garlic 
Yz teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Add the onion and the garlic, mashed, to 
the cream ; pour it in the bottom of a baking 
dish, break on top the eggs, dust with salt 
and pepper, stand the baking dish in a pan 
of water and cook in the oven until the eggs 
are "set." Serve in the dish in which they 
are cooked. 



Eggs a la Trinidad 

6 eggs 

2 iamb's kidneys 

i cupful of fresh bread crumbs 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

y 2 pint of stock 

i teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet 

y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Split the kidneys, cut out the tubes ; scald 
them, drain, and cut them into thin slices. 
Put the butter into a saucepan, add the kid- 



20 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

neys, toss until the kidneys are cooked, then 
add the flour, stock, kitchen bouquet, salt and 
pepper; stir until boiling. Grease a shallow 
granite or silver platter, break into it the 
eggs, sprinkle over the bread crumbs and 
stand them in the oven until the eggs are 
"set," then pour over the sauce, arrange the 
kidneys around the edge of the dish and send 
at once to the table. 



Eggs Rossini 

6 eggs 

4 chicken livers 
12 nice mushrooms 
y 2 cupful of stock 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

I dash of pepper 

Put the stock in a saucepan and boil rap- 
idly until reduced one-half, add a drop or two 
of browning. Throw the chicken livers into 
boiling water and let them simmer gently for 
ten minutes; drain. Slice the mushrooms 
and put them, with the livers, into the stock ; 
let them stand until you have cooked the 
eggs. Put a tablespoonful of butter in the 
bottom of a shallow platter; when melted 



COOKING OF EGGS 21 

break in the eggs, stand them in the oven 
until "set," garnish with the livers and mush- 
rooms and pour over the sauce. 

Eggs Baked in Tomato Sauce 

Make a tomato sauce. Pour one-half in 
the bottom of a baking dish or granite plat- 
ter, break in from four to six fresh eggs, 
cover with the other half of the sauce, dust 
the top with grated cheese, and bake in a 
moderate oven until "set," about fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Serve for supper in the 
place of meat. 

Eggs a la Martin 

Make a half pint of cream sauce. Put 
half of it in the bottom of a baking dish or 
into the bottom of ramekin dishes or indi- 
vidual cups. Break fresh eggs on top of the 
cream sauce, dust with a little salt and pep- 
per, pour over the remaining cream sauce, 
sprinkle the top with grated cheese, and bake 
in a moderate oven until the cheese is 
browned and eggs are "set." Serve in the 
dish or dishes in which they are cooked. 



22 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs a la Valencienne 

6 eggs 

1 pint of dry boiled rice 
y 2 pint of strained tomato 

2 mushrooms 

2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
Yz saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 
y 2 teaspoonful of paprika 

I teaspoonful of salt 
Yz saltspoonful of pepper 

Rub the butter and flour together, add 
the strained tomato, stir until boiling, add 
the mushrooms, sliced, salt, paprika, nutmeg 
and pepper. Take a granite or silver platter, 
put in two tablespoonfuls of butter extra, let 
the butter melt and heat ; break into this the 
eggs, being very careful not to break the 
yolks. Let the eggs cook in the oven until 
"set." Then put around the edge of the dish 
as a garnish the boiled rice, pour over the 
eggs the tomato sauce, dust the top with the 
Parmesan cheese and send at once to the 
table. 



COOKING OF EGGS 23 

Fillets of Eggs 

6 eggs 

4 tablespoonfuls of good stock 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 
1 saltspoonful of pepper 

Beat the eggs with the stock, add the salt 
and pepper. Turn them into a buttered 
square pan, stand this in another of boiling 
water, and cook in the oven until the eggs 
are thoroughly "set" Cut the preparation 
into thin fillets or slices, dip in either a thin 
batter made from one egg, a half cupful of 
milk and flour to thicken, or they may be dip- 
ped in beaten egg, rolled in bread crumbs and 
fried in deep hot fat. Arrange the fillets in a 
platter on a napkin, one overlapping the 
other; garnish with parsley and send to the 
table with a boat of tomato or white sauce. 



Eggs a la Suisse 

Cover the bottom of a baking dkh with 
about two tablespoonfuls of butter cut into 
bits. On top of this, very thin slices of 
Swiss cheese. Break over some fresh eggs. 
Dust with salt and pepper. To each half 



24 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

dozen eggs, pour over a half cup of cream. 
Then cover the top with grated Swiss cheese 
and bake in the oven until the cheese is 
melted and the eggs "set." Send this to the 
table with a plate of dry toast. 



Eggs with Nut-Brown Butter 

These eggs may be shirred or poached 
and served on toast. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in a saute or frying pan. As 
soon as it begins to heat, break into it the 
eggs and cook slightly until the yolks are 
"set;" dish them at once on toast or thin 
slices of broiled ham. Put two more table- 
spoonfuls of butter in the pan, let it brown, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; boil 
it up once and pour over the eggs. 



Egg Timbales 

Butter small timbale molds or custard 
cups, dust the bottoms and sides with chop- 
ped* tongue and finely chopped mushrooms. 
Break into each mold one fresh egg. Stand 
the mold in a baking pan half filled with 



COOKING OF EGGS 25 

boiling water, and cook in the oven, until the 
eggs are "set." Have ready nicely toasted 
rounds of bread, one for each cup, and a 
well-made tomato or cream sauce. Loosen 
the eggs from the cups with a knife, turn 
each out onto a round of toast, arrange 
neatly on a heated platter, fill the bottom of 
the platter with cream or tomato sauce, gar- 
nish the dish with nicely seasoned green peas 
and serve at once. 



Eggs Coquelicot 

Grease small custard or timbale cups and 
put inside of each a cooked Spanish pepper. 
Drop in the pepper one egg. Dust it lightly 
with salt, stand the cups in a pan of boiling 
water and cook in the oven until the eggs 
are "set." Toast one round of bread for each 
cup and make a half pint of cream sauce. 
When the eggs are "set," fill the bottom of 
the serving platter with cream sauce, loosen 
the peppers from the cups and turn them out 
on the rounds of toast. Stand them in the 
cream sauce, dust on top of each a little 
chopped parsley and send to the table. 



26 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs Suzette 

Bake as many potatoes as you have per- 
sons to serve. When done, cut off the sides, 
scoop out a portion of the potato, leaving a 
wall about a half inch thick. Mash the 
scooped-out portion, add to it a little hot 
milk, salt and pepper, and put it into a pas- 
try bag. Put a little salt, pepper and butter 
into each potato and break in a fresh egg. 
Press the potato from the pastry bag 
through a star tube around the edge of the 
potato, forming a border. Stand these in a 
baking pan and bake until the eggs are "set." 
Put a tablespoonful of cream sauce in the 
center of each, and send to the table. 



Eggs en Cocotte 

Chop fine one good-sized onion. Cook it, 
over hot water, in two level tablespoonfuls 
of butter. When the onion is soft add a 
quarter of a can of mushrooms, chopped fine, 
two level tablespoonfuls of flour and one 
cupful of stock. Stir until boiling. Add a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pep- 



COOKING OF EGGS 2J 

per. Put a tablespoonful of this sauce in 
the bottom of individual cups. Break into 
each cup one egg. Pour over the remaining 
mixture. Stand the cups in a pan of hot 
water and bake in a moderate oven about five 
minutes. 

Eggs Steamed in the Shell 

Eggs put into hot water and kept away 
from the fire are much better than eggs 
actually boiled for only a short time. The 
greater the number of eggs to be cooked, 
the greater the amount of water that must 
be used. To cook four eggs, put them into 
a kettle, pour over them two quarts of water, 
cover the kettle and allow them to stand for 
ten minutes. Lift them from the water, put 
them into a large bowl, cover with boiling 
water, and send at once to the table. The 
whites will be coagulated, but should be soft 
and creamy, while the yolks will be perfectly 
cooked. If you should add six eggs to this 
volume of water, lengthen the time of stand- 
ing. A single egg, dropped into a quart of 
water, must stand five minutes. 



28 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Birds' Nests 

Separate the eggs, allowing one to each 
person. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. 
Heap them into individual dishes, make a 
nest, or hole, in the center. Drop into this 
a whole yolk. Stand the dish in a pan of 
water, cover, and cook in the oven about two 
or three minutes. Dust lightly with salt 
and pepper, put a tiny bit of butter in the 
center of each, and send at once to the table. 
This is one of the most sightly of all egg 
dishes 

Eggs en Panade 

2 eggs 

6 slices of bread 
{ y 2 cupful of milk or cream 

4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 

i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
]/ 2 teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Trim the crusts from the bread. Beat 
the eggs until well mixed, but not light, then 
add the milk or cream, salt and pepper. Put 
the oil in a shallow frying pan, dip the slices 
of bread in the beaten egg and drop them 
into the hot oil; when brown on one side, 



COOKING OF EGGS 20, 

turn and brown the other. Dish on a hot 
platter, dust with the chopped parsley and 
send at once to the table. 



Egg Pudding 

6 eggs 

6 slices of bread 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped chives 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

I tablespoonful of flour 
y 2 pint of milk 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

1 saltspoonful of white pepper 

Break the eggs in a bowl, add ail the sea- 
soning. Rub the butter and flour together, 
add the milk, stir until boiling, and then add 
this to the eggs; beat together until thor- 
oughly mixed. Crumb the bread, removing 
the crusts ; stir this in at last. Turn into a 
buttered baking dish, cover with grated 
cheese, and bake in the oven until thoroughly 
"set" and a nice brown. It makes an ex- 
ceedingly good, easily digested luncheon or 
supper dish for children. 



30 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs a la Bonne Femme 

1 Spanish or 2 Bermuda onions 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

Yi, pint of milk 

6 eggs 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 saltspoonful of pepper 
Yz saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 

Separate the whites and yolks of the 
eggs. Put the butter into a saucepan, add 
the onions, cut into very thin slices; shake 
until the onions are soft, but not brown, then 
dust over the flour, mix, and add the milk, 
salt, pepper and nutmeg. Stir carefully until 
this reaches boiling point, then stand it on 
the back part of the stove where it will keep 
hot for at least ten minutes. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs until very creamy, then stir them 
into the sauce, take from the fire, and fold 
in the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Turn 
into a baking dish or casserole and bake in a 
hot oven fifteen minutes ; serve at once. 



COOKING OF EGGS 3 1 

To Poach Eggs 

Use a shallow frying pan partly filled 
with boiling water. The eggs must be per- 
fectly fresh. The white of an egg is held 
in a membrane which seems to lose its te- 
nacity after the egg is three days old. Such 
an egg, when dropped into boiling water, 
spreads out; that is, it does not retain its 
shape. When ready to poach eggs, take the 
required number to the stove. The water 
must be boiling hot, but not actually bub- 
bling. Break an egg into a saucer, slide it 
quickly into the water, and then another 
and another. Pull the pan to the side of the 
stove, where the water cannot possibly boil. 
With a tablespoon, baste the water over the 
yolks of the eggs, if they happen to be ex- 
posed. They must be entirely covered with 
a thin veil of the white. Have ready the 
desired quantity of toast on a heated platter, 
lift each egg with a slice or skimmer, trim 
off the ragged edges and slide them at once 
on the toast. Dust with salt and pepper, 
baste with melted butter, and send to the 
table. 



32 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs Mirabeau 

Cut a sufficient number of rounds of 
bread, toast them carefully and cover them 
with pate de foie gras, put on top of each a 
poached tgg, pour over sauce Perigueux, 
and send to the table. 



Eggs Norwegian 

Cover rounds of toasted bread first with 
butter and then with anchovy paste, put on 
top of each a poached egg, pour over anchovy 
sauce, and send at once to the table. 



Eggs Prescourt 

Toast slices of bread, put thin slices of 
chicken on each, on top of this a poached 
egg, cover with sauce Bernaise, and serve 
at once. 

Eggs Courtland 

Mince sufficient cold chicken to make a 
half cupful. Make a half pint of cream 
sauce, add the minced chicken, a half tea- 



COOKING OF EGGS 33 

spoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper. 
Toast a sufficient quantity of bread, put it 
on a heated platter, pour over a small quan- 
tity of the minced chicken and cream sauce, 
put on each a poached egg, cover with the 
remaining sauce, dust with parsley and serve 
with a garnish of green peas. 



Eggs Louisiana 

Make a half pint of tomato sauce, toast 
a sufficient quantity of bread, butter the 
bread and put on each slice a poached egg; 
cover with the tomato sauce. 



Eggs Richmond 

Chop sufficient cold chicken to make a 
half cupful, add an equal quantity of finely- 
chopped mushrooms, add this to a half pint 
of cream sauce. Add one unbeaten egg to 
a pint of cold boiled rice, season it with salt 
and pepper, make into round, flat cakes, and 
fry in hot fat. Arrange these on a heated 
platter, pour over the cream sauce mixture, 
and put on top of each a poached egg. 



34 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Hungarian Eggs 

Boil a cup of rice until tender and dry. 
Make a half pint of paprika sauce. Turn 
the rice into the center of a platter, smooth 
it down, cover the top with poached eggs, 
pour over the paprika sauce and send at once 
to the table. 



Eggs Nova Scotia 

Put a poached egg on top of a flat cod- 
fish cake, pour over cream or tomato sauce, 
and send to the table. 



Eggs Lakme 

Cut cold chicken or turkey into very thin 
slices, and stand over hot water, in a dish, 
until heated; toast a sufficient quantity of 
bread, butter the slices, put on each a slice 
of chicken or turkey, dust lightly with salt 
and pepper. On top of these place a poached 
egg, cover with tarragon sauce, and send to 
the table. 



COOKING OF EGGS 35 

Eggs Malikoff 

Toast rounds of bread, cover them with 
caviar which has been seasoned with a little 
onion and pepper. Put on top of each a 
poached egg, cover with horseradish sauce, 
and send to the table. 



Eggs Virginia 

Grate six ears of corn. Add half cupful 
of milk, a half cupful of flour and two eggs, 
beaten separately, and a half teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of pepper. Drop the mix- 
ture in large tablespoonfuls in hot fat. When 
brown on one side, turn and brown on the 
other. Drain and arrange neatly on a large 
platter. Put a poached egg on the top of 
each cake, cover with cream sauce and send 
to the table. This dish, with green peas, 
makes quite a complete meal. 



Japanese Eggs 

Carefully boil one cup of rice, drain dry. 
Make a half pint of cream sauce, add to it a 
teaspoonful of grated onion and a teaspoon- 



36 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

ful of chopped celery. Poach the desired 
number of eggs. Put the rice in the center 
of a platter, cover it with the eggs, pour 
over the sauce. Dust the dish with parsley, 
and send at once to the table. The edge of 
this dish may be garnished with broiled sar- 
dines or carefully broiled smoked salmon. 



Eggs a la Windsor 

6 eggs 

6 rounds of toast 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
x / 2 pint of chicken stock 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

1 tablespoonful of chopped olive 

1 tablespoonful of chopped Spanish pepper 
l / 2 teaspoonful of salt 

1 saltspoonful of black pepper 

Rub the butter and flour together and 
add the stock; stir until boiling, and add the 
salt and pepper. Toast the bread. Poach 
the eggs, put them on the toast, pour over 
carefully the sauce, heap the chopped vege- 
tables, mixed, in the center of each egg and 
send to the table. 



COOKING OF EGGS 37 

Eggs Buckingham 

Allow one egg to each person that is to 
be served. Cut either a dry or a Virginia 
ham into very thin slices; allow one thin 
square to each person. Toast squares of 
bread, remove the crust. Broil the ham 
quickly ; put each square of ham on a square 
of toast, put on top a poached egg, dust 
lightly with pepper and send to the table. 



Poached Eggs on Fried Tomatoes 

Cut solid tomatoes into slices a quarter 
of an inch thick, dust them with salt and 
pepper, dip them in egg beaten with a table- 
spoonful of water, roll them thickly with 
bread crumbs, dip them again in the egg, 
dust again with bread crumbs, and fry in 
deep hot fat. Drain on brown paper, dish 
on a heated platter, put a poached egg in the 
center of each slice, dust with salt and pep- 
per, put a tablespoonful of tomato sauce over 
each egg and send at once to the table. 
Cream sauce may be used in the place of 
tomato sauce. 



3^ MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs a la Finnois 

6 eggs 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
y 2 pint of strained tomato 

1 tablespoonful of chopped chives 

2 green peppers 

Rub the butter and flour together, add 
the tomatoes, and the peppers, chopped very 
fine. Stir until this reaches boiling point, 
and stand it over hot water. Poach the eggs 
in deep water. Toast six rounds of bread; 
arrange the toast on a platter, put one tgg 
on each slice, pour around the tomato sauce, 
dust thickly with the chives and send to the 
table. 

Eggs a la Gretna 

6 eggs 

2 heads of celery 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

]/ 2 pint of milk 

i teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Cut the celery into inch lengths, wash 
thoroughly, cover with boiling water and 
simmer gently thirty minutes until the celery 



COOKING OF EGGS 39 

is tender; drain, saving the water in which 
the celery was cooked for another purpose. 
Rub the butter and flour together, add the 
milk, salt and pepper; when boiling add the 
celery; stand this over hot water while you 
poach the eggs and toast six squares of 
bread. Butter the toast, put on each slice 
one egg; put these around the edge of a large 
platter, turn the celery into the middle of the 
dish and send at once to the table. To in- 
crease the beauty of this dish, and to give it 
a greater food value, you may garnish be- 
tween the toast and celery with carefully 
boiled rice; this then makes an exceedingly 
nice supper dish. 



Eggs a Tlmperatrice 

Toast six slices of bread; butter them, 
put on top a thin slice of pate de foie gras, 
and on top of this a hot poached egg. Baste 
with a little melted butter, dust with salt and 
pepper and send at once to the table. This 
is one of the most elegant of all the egg 
dishes. 



40 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs with Chestnuts 

This is an exceedingly nice dish to serve 
in the Fall when chestnuts are fresh. Shell 
a quart of chestnuts, blanch them, then boil 
them until tender ; drain and press through a 
colander. Add a half cupful of hot milk, a 
tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of salt 
and a saltspoonful of pepper. Beat until 
light and stand over a kettle of hot water 
while you poach six or eight eggs. Dish the 
chestnut puree in a small platter, cover the 
poached eggs over the top, dust them with 
salt, pepper and chopped parsley. 

Eggs a la Regence 

6 eggs 
y 2 cupful of chopped cold cooked ham 

1 grated onion 

x / 2 can of chopped mushrooms 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

Yi pint of chicken stock 
y> teaspoonful of salt 
i saltspoonful of pepper 

Stand the ham over hot water until thor- 
oughly heated. Rub the butter and flour to- 
gether, add the stock, stir until boiling, add 



COOKING OF EGGS 41 

the mushrooms, sliced, the salt, pepper and 
the onion; stand this over hot water while 
you poach the eggs. Dish the eggs, cover 
them with the sauce, strained, and cover with 
the chopped ham. Garnish the dish with 
mashed potatoes or boiled rice, and send at 
once to the table. 



Eggs a la Livingstone 

6 squares of toast 

1 tureen of pate-de-foie-gras 
6 eggs 

y 2 cupful of good stock 

2 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

1 teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 
1 dash of pepper 

Toast the bread, butter it and put on top 
of each slice of toast a slice of pate de foie 
gras; put this on a heated dish, stand it at 
the mouth of the oven door while you poach 
the eggs. Put into a saucepan all the other 
ingredients, bring to a boil, put one poached 
egg on each slice of pate de foie gras; baste 
with the sauce and send at once to the table. 



42 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs Mornay 

6 eggs 

2 tablespoonfnls of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
Yz pint of milk 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 
y 2 teaspoonful of paprika 

4 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese 

Rub the butter and flour together, add 
the milk, stir until boiling, add the salt and 
paprika, and if you have it, a teaspoonful of 
soy; pour half of this sauce in a shallow 
granite platter or baking dish. Poach the 
eggs, drain them carefully, and put them 
over the top of the sauce, cover with the re- 
maining sauce, dust with Parmesan cheese 
and run in the oven a moment to brown. 



Eggs Zanzibar 

I small egg plant 

1 thin slice of ham 
6 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

2 tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup 
2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
i dash of pepper 

Cut the egg plant into slices, season it 
with salt and pepper, dip in egg and bread 



COOKING OF EGGS 43 

crumbs and fry carefully in deep hot fat ; put 
this on brown paper in the oven to dry. 
Broil the ham, cut it into squares sufficiently 
small to go neatly on top of each slice of egg 
plant. Poach the eggs, and heat the other 
ingredients for the sauce. Dish the egg 
plant on a platter, put on the ham, and on 
each piece of ham an egg; baste with sauce 
and send to the table. 



Eggs Monte Bello 

6 eggs 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

Yz pint of strained tomato 

I teaspoonful of onion juice 

y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Put about two quarts of water into a 
small deep saucepan ; when boiling very hard 
drop in, one at a time, the eggs. In dropping 
them in, the white will fold over the yolk and 
make the eggs round. Push them to the 
back of the stove to stand for two minutes. 
Lift them with a skimmer, dip them in an 
egg beaten with a tablespoonful of water, 
dust them with bread crumbs and fry them 



44 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

in deep hot fat. You cannot use a frying 
basket. Just drop them in the fat, and as 
they are browned lift them out onto soft 
paper to drain. Rub the butter and flour 
together, add the tomato and seasoning; 
when boiling dish the eggs on a heated plat- 
ter, pour around tomato sauce and send to 
the table. 

Eggs a la Bourbon 

6 eggs 
y 2 pint of stock 

I tablespoonful of butter 

6 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

I dash of pepper 

Put the stock in a small saucepan, poach 
the eggs in it, two at a time; lift them care- 
fully and lay them on a hot granite or silver 
dish. When all are poached, dust over the 
cheese and stand them in the hot oven for 
just a moment until the cheese is melted. In 
the meantime boil the stock until it is re- 
duced one-half, add the butter, baste it over 
the eggs and send to the table. This dish 
may be garnished with triangular pieces of 
toast. 



COOKING OF EGGS 45 

Eggs Bernaise 

6 whole eggs 

4 yolks of eggs 

4 tahlespoonfuls of stock 

4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 

i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

i tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar 

i tablespoonful of butter 

I tablespoonful of flour 

]/ 2 cupful of strained tomato 

i teaspoonful of onion juice 

Yz teaspoonful of salt 

Put the stock, yolks of eggs and olive oil 
into a saucepan, stir over hot water until you 
have a thick, smooth sauce like mayonnaise; 
take from the fire, and when slightly cool stir 
in the tarragon vinegar and parsley. Rub 
the butter and flour together, add the tomato, 
and when boiling add a palatable seasoning 
of salt and pepper. Toast six halves of Eng- 
lish muffins or squares of bread. Heat a 
platter, butter the toast, put it on the hot 
platter, and poach the eggs. Put one 
poached egg on each slice of toast, fill the 
bottom of the dish with tomato sauce and 
put a tablespoonful of Bernaise sauce on 
top of each egg. These may be garnished 
with a little chopped truffle, or a little chop- 
ped parsley. 



46 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs a la Rorer 

Toast rounds of bread, one for each per- 
son. Butter them. Heat, in boiling water, 
the choke of a French artichoke, one for each 
slice of bread. Make sauce Hollandaise, and 
put one artichoke bottom on each slice of 
bread on a - heated platter. Put in the center 
a poached egg and pour over the sauce Hol- 
landaise. Garnish the dish with nicely 
cooked French or fresh green peas. 



Eggs Benedict 

Separate two eggs. Break th'e yolks, add 
a cupful of milk, a half teaspoonful of salt, 
one and a half cupfuls of flour and a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. Beat well, add 
two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
fold in the well-beaten whites. Bake on a 
griddle in large muffin rings. Broil thin 
slices of ham. Make a sauce Hollandaise. 
Chop a truffle. Poach the required number 
of eggs. Dish the muffins, put a square of 
ham on each, then a poached egg and cover 
each egg nicely with sauce Hollandaise. 
Dust with truffle and serve at once. 



COOKING OF EGGS 47 

To Hard-boil Eggs 

Put the eggs in warm water, bring the 
water quickly to the boiling point, then push 
the kettle to the back of the stove, where the 
water will remain at 200 ° Fahrenheit, for 
twenty minutes. If these are to be used for 
made-over dishes, throw them at once into 
cold water, remove the shells, or the yolks 
will lose their color. 



Eggs Creole 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and four 
of chopped onions into a saucepan, cook until 
the onion is soft, but not brown. Then add 
four peeled fresh tomatoes that have been 
cut into pieces, and three finely chopped 
green peppers. Cook this fifteen minutes, 
and add a level teaspoonful of salt. Have 
the eggs hard-boiled, and cut into slices. 
Put them into a baking dish, pour over the 
sauce, re-heat in the oven, and serve with a 
dish of boiled rice. 



48 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Curried Eggs 

Peel, and cut into slices, three large 
onions. Put them in a saucepan with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Stand over hot 
water and cook until the onions are soft. 
Add a teaspoonful of curry powder, a clove 
of garlic mashed, a saltspoonful of ground 
ginger, a half teaspoonful of salt and a table- 
spoonful of flour ; mix thoroughly and add a 
half pint of water. Stir until boiling. Have 
ready six hard-boiled eggs, cut them into 
slices, arrange them over a dish of carefully 
boiled rice, on a hot platter, strain over the 
sauce, and send at once to the table. ^TTiis 
dish is made more attractive by a garnish 
with sweet Spanish peppers, cut into strips. 



Eggs Beauregard 

Hard-boil five eggs. Separate the whites 
from the yolks. Put the yolks through a 
sieve. Put the whites either through a veg- 
etable press, or chop them very fine. Make 
a half pint of cream sauce, season it and add 
the whites. Have ready a sufficient amount 
of toast, carefully buttered. Put this on a 



COOKING OF EGGS 49 

heated platter, cover over the cream sauce 
and the whites, dust the tops with the yolks, 
then with salt and pepper. Garnish the 
edge of the dish with finely chopped parsley, 
and send at once to the table. 



Eggs Lafayette 

Hard-boil six eggs, chop them, but not 
fine. Make a half pint of curry sauce. Put 
the chopped eggs over a bed of carefully 
boiled rice, cover with the curry sauce, gar- 
nish with strips of Spanish pepper and serve. 
This dish may be changed by using tomato 
sauce in place of the curry sauce. 



Eggs Jefferson 

Select the desired number of good-sized 
tomatoes, allowing one to each person. Cut 
off the blossom end, scoop out the seeds, 
stand the tomatoes in a baking pan in the 
oven until they are partly cooked. Put a 
half teaspoonful of butter and a dusting of 
salt and pepper into the bottom of each, and 
break in one egg. Put these back in the 



50 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

oven until the eggs are "set." Have ready a 
round of toasted bread for each tomato, 
stand the tomato in the center of the bread, 
fill the bottom of the dish with cream sauce, 
and send to the table. 



Eggs Washington 

Add a half pint of crab meat to a half 
pint of cream sauce. Season with salt and 
pepper. Have ready either bread pates or 
pates made from puff paste. Put a table- 
spoonful of the crab mixture in the bottom 
of each. Break in an egg. Stand in the 
oven until the egg is "set." Or you may 
poach the eggs and slide them into the pate. 
Pour over the remaining quantity of crab- 
meat sauce, and send at once to the table. 



Eggs au Gratin 

Make a pint of cream sauce. Hard-boil 
six eggs. Cut them into slices. Put them 
in the baking dish and cover with the cream 
sauce. Dust thickly with cheese, and brown 
quickly in the oven. 



COOKING OF EGGS 5 1 

Deviled Eggs 

Hard-boil twelve eggs. Remove the 
shells. Cut the eggs into halves, crosswise. 
Take out the yolks without breaking the 
whites. Press the yolks through a sieve. 
Add four tablespoonfuls of finely chopped 
chicken, tongue or ham. Add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Rub 
the mixture. Form it into balls the size of 
the yolks and put them into the places in the 
whites from which the yolks were taken. 
Put two halves together, roll them in tissue 
paper that has been fringed at the ends, giv- 
ing each a twist. If these balls are made the 
size of the yolk, and put back into the whites, 
they may be placed on a platter, heated, and 
served on toast, with cream sauce ; then they 
are very much like the eggs Bernhardt. 



Eggs a la Tripe 

Hard-boil eight eggs. Remove the shells, 
cut eggs crosswise in rather thick slices. 
Cut three small onions into very thin slices. 
Separate them into rings, cover them with 



52 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

boiling water and boil rapidly ten minutes; 
drain, then cover them with fresh water and 
boil until they are tender; drain again, but 
save the water. Now mix the eggs and 
onions carefully, without breaking. Put two 
level tablespoonfuls of butter and two of 
flour into a saucepan. Mix. Add a grat- 
ing of nutmeg, a saltspoonf ul of black pepper, 
the juice of a lemon, and a half-pint of the 
water in which the onions were boiled. 
Bring to the boiling point, add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream; then add the eggs and 
onions. When thoroughly hot, dish them in 
a conical form, garnish with triangular 
pieces of toast, and serve. 

Eggs a l'Aurore 

Hard-boil six eggs, cut them into halves 
lengthwise, take out the yolks, keeping them 
whole. Cut the whites into fine strips. Make 
a cream sauce. Add to it two tablespoonfuls 
of finely chopped sardines or finely chopped 
lobster or crab, a tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. Add the whites of the eggs, and, 
when quite hot, add the yolks, without break- 
ing them. Turn this at once into a heated 



COOKING OF EGGS 53 

dish, garnish the dish with triangular pieces 
of toast, and send to the table. Or, if you 
like, make the sauce, season it and put a 
layer into the bottom of the baking-dish, then 
a layer of Parmesan cheese, then a layer of 
the yolks, pressed through a sieve, and so 
on, alternating, having the last layer of the 
yolks of the eggs. Dust over a few bread 
crumbs, put here and there bits of butter, and 
brown quickly in the oven. 

Eggs a la Dauphin 

Remove the shells from six hard-boiled 
eggs, cut them into halves, lengthwise, take 
out the yolks, press them through a sieve. 
Add four level tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, and half a teaspoonful of salt, a grating 
of nutmeg and two tablespoonfuls of Par- 
mesan cheese. Add half a cupful of cream 
to a half cupful of sifted bread crumbs. Mix 
this with the yolks, rub until smooth, then 
add one well-beaten egg y and the yolk of one 
egg. Cover the bottom of the baking dish 
with the mixture forming it in a pyramid 
and cover with the chopped whites. Have 
ready two extra hard-boiled eggs, take out 



54 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

the yolks, press them through a sieve, all 
over the top. Garnish the edges of the dish 
with triangular pieces of toasted bread, cover 
the whole with cream sauce, brown in the 
oven, and serve at once. 



Eggs a la Bennett 

6 hard-boiled eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

i teaspoonful of anchovy sauce 

i tablespoonful of finely chopped chives or onion 
Yz cupful of bread crumbs 
Yt. teaspoonful of salt 

Cut the eggs into halves lengthwise; re- 
move the yolks, rub them with half the but- 
ter, salt, onion and anchovy paste. Fill these 
back into the whites. Cover the bottom of a 
baking dish with ordinary white sauce, stand 
in the eggs, put over the bread crumbs, baste 
them with the remaining butter, melted, and 
stand in the oven long enough to brown. 



COOKING OF EGGS 55 

Eggs Broulli 

Beat four eggs. Add to them four table- 
spoonfuls of stock, four tablespoonfuls of 
cream, a saltspoonful of salt and half a salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Turn them into a sauce- 
pan, stand in a pan of hot water, stir with 
an egg-beater until they are thick and jelly- 
like. Turn at once into a heated dish, gar- 
nish with toast and send to the table. 



Scalloped Eggs 

4 hard-boiled eggs 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
Yz pint of milk 
i cupful of finely chopped cold cooked 

chicken or fish 
I teaspoonful of salt 
I saltspoonful of pepper 

Chop the eggs rather fine. Rub the but- 
ter and flour together, add the milk, stir until 
boiling, add the salt and pepper. Put a layer 
of eggs in the bottom of a casserole, or bak- 
ing dish, then a layer of the fish or chicken, 
then a little white sauce, and so continue 



56 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

until the ingredients are used. Dust the 
top thickly with bread crumbs and bake in 
a moderate oven until nicely browned. 



Egg Farci 

6 hard-boiled eggs 

2 cupfuls of mashed potatoes 

i cupful of finely chopped cold cooked meat 

i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

i tablespoonful of butter 

I tablespoonful of flour 

i gill (a half cupful) of milk 

I level teaspoonful of salt 

i teaspoonful of onion juice 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs, chop them fine, mix 
them with the meat, add the salt, pepper and 
parsley. Rub the butter and flour together, 
add the milk, stir until boiling; add this 
gradually to the potatoes. When smooth 
add the hard-boiled eggs, meat and parsley. 
Fill into small custard cups or into shirring 
dishes, brush with milk and brown in the 
oven. These make a nice supper or luncheon 
dish. 



COOKING OF EGGS 57 

Egg Balls 

These are used for soup and for garnish- 
ing of vegetable dishes. Hard-boil four 
eggs, throw them at once into cold water, 
remove the shells. Put the yolks through a 
sieve, then add a half teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of white pepper and the yolk of one raw 
egg, or you may take a part of the white of 
one egg. Mix thoroughly and make into 
balls the size of a marble, using enough flour 
to prevent sticking to the hands. Drop these 
into a kettle of boiling stock, or into hot fat. 
Drain on brown paper. 

Deviled Egg Salad 

6 eggs 

i head of lettuce 

I pimiento 

i teaspoonful of onion juice 
y 2 teaspoonful of paprika 
Yz cupful of chopped boiled tongue 

i saltspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs, throw them into cold 
water, remove the shells, cut them length- 
wise. Take out the yolks without breaking 
the whites. Rub the yolks through a sieve 



58 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

into a bowl, then add the tongue and all the 
seasoning. If the mixture is dry add a table- 
spoonful or two of cream or olive oil. Roll 
the mixture into balls that will fit the spaces 
from which they were taken in the whites, 
making each ball round. Arrange the let- 
tuce over a platter, stand the whites in the 
lettuce, and at serving time baste thoroughly 
with French dressing. 

Japanese Hard Eggs 

i cupful of rice 
y 2 pint of white sauce 
6 eggs 

i tablespoonful of chopped parsley, if you 
have it, and a suspicion of onion juice 

Put the eggs into a saucepan of cold 
water, bring to boiling point, and simmer 
gently twenty minutes. Wash the rice 
through several cold waters, sprinkle it into 
a kettle of boiling water and boil it for thirty 
minutes. Remove the shells, break the eggs 
while they are hot, cut them into halves 
crosswise. Make the cream sauce, and add 
the onion juice. When the rice is done, 
drain, sprinkle it in the center of a large 
platter, press the halves of the eggs down 



COOKING OF EGGS 59 

into it, and pour over the cream sauce. Gar- 
nish with the chopped parsley. This takes 
the place of both meat and starchy vegetables 
for either luncheon or supper. 

Eggs en Marinade 

i dozen eggs 
3 very red beets 
I quart of cider vinegar 
24 whole cloves 
1 teaspoonful of mustard seed 
1 saltspoonful of celery seed 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

2 saltspoonfuls of pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs; plunge them into 
cold water and remove the shells. Stick the 
cloves into the eggs. Pare the beets, cut 
them into blocks and boil them in about a 
pint of water. To this water add the vin- 
egar, bring it to boiling point, add salt, pep- 
per and the celery and mustard seed. Put 
the eggs into a glass jar and pour over the 
boiling vinegar; put on the tops and stand 
them aside for three weeks. A tablespoon- 
ful of grated horseradish or a half cupful of 
nasturtium seeds will improve the flavor and 
prevent mold. 



60 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs a la Polonaise 

6 eggs 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

i teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Hard-boil four of the eggs; when done 
remove the shells, cut the eggs into halves 
lengthwise and take out the yolks, without 
breaking the whites. Press the yolks through 
a sieve into a bowl, and add the raw yolks 
of the remaining two eggs, with the parsley, 
salt and pepper. Beat the white of the raw 
eggs until light, not stiff, then work them 
into the yolk mixture. Cover the bottom of 
a shallow baking pan with part of this mix- 
ture, then fill the spaces in the whites with 
some of the remaining mixture. Put the 
whites of the eggs together, making them 
look like whole eggs. Arrange these in the 
center of the dish. If you have any of the 
yolk mixture left, put it around in a sort of 
a border. Pour over a little melted butter, 
dust thickly with soft bread crumbs and bake 
in a quick oven until slightly brown. Serve 
plain or with cream sauce. 



COOKING OF EGGS 6 1 

Eggs a la Hyde 

6 eggs 
y 2 can of mushrooms 

1 tablespoonful of grated onion 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley 
y 2 cupful of sweet cream 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
Yz pint of chicken stock or cocoanut milk 
I teaspoonful of salt 
i saltspoonful of pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs, and when done re- 
move the shells and cut the eggs into halves 
lengthwise, keeping the whites whole. Re- 
move the yolks, press them through a sieve, 
add to them the cream, half the salt and a 
dash of cayenne. Mix thoroughly and fill 
into the whites and arrange them neatly on 
a granite or silver platter. Put the butter 
into a saucepan, add the onion and flour, 
then the stock or cocoanut milk, and the 
mushrooms; stir, until it boils, add the re- 
maining salt and pepper; take from the fire 
and add the parsley. Pour this over the eggs 
on the platter, dust thickly with bread 
crumbs, run into a quick oven until brown. 



62 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs a la Vinaigrette 

6 eggs 

I head of lettuce 

8 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 

I tablespoonful of chopped gherkin 

I tablespoonful of chopped olives 

I tablespoonful of grated onion 

Hard-boil the eggs, throw them into cold 
water; remove the shells and cut them into 
slices lengthwise. Wash and dry the lettuce, 
arrange it on a small meat platter, put over 
the top slices of hard-boiled eggs, letting 
one slice overlap the other. Fill the center 
of the dish with sliced, peeled tomatoes. Put 
a half teaspoonful of salt in a soup plate, add 
a saltspoonful of pepper and the oil ; put in a 
piece of ice and stir until the salt is dissolved. 
Remove the ice, add all the other ingredients 
but the parsley, mix thoroughly, pour this 
over the eggs, dust with parsley and serve 
as a supper dish. 



COOKING OF EGGS 63 

Eggs a la Russe 

6 eggs 

1 small can of caviar (2 tablespoonfuls) 
y 2 pint of stock 
1 teaspoonful of onion juice 
1 dash of pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs, remove the shells, cut 
them into halves lengthwise; take out the 
yolks without breaking the whites, and press 
them through a sieve, then add the caviar, 
onion juice and pepper. Heap these back 
into the whites. Boil the stock until reduced 
one-half, baste the eggs carefully, run them 
into the oven until hot, pour over the re- 
maining hot stock and send to the table. 



Eggs Lyonnaise 

6 eggs 

1 onion 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

^2 pint of milk 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 
1 dash of pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs, remove the shells, 
throw them in cold water. Cut the onion 
into thin slices; put it, with the butter, into 



64 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

a saucepan, shake until the onion is tender, 
then add the flour, milk and seasoning; stir 
until boiling. At serving time cut the eggs 
into slices crosswise, put them in a shallow 
baking dish, cover with cream sauce and run 
in the oven just a moment until they are 
very hot. 

Egg Croquettes 

6 eggs 
x / 2 pint of milk 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

3 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
I teaspoonful of onion juice 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

y 2 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 

I teaspoonful of salt 

I saltspoonful of pepper 

Hard-boil the eggs and chop them fine. 
Rub the butter and flour together, add the 
milk, stir until you have a thick, smooth 
paste. Add all the seasoning to the egg, 
mix the eggs into the white sauce and turn 
out to cool. When cold form into cylinders, 
dip in egg beaten with a tablespoonful of 
water, roll in bread crumbs and fry in deep 
hot fat, Serve with cream sauce. 



COOKING OF EGGS 65 

Egg Chops 

6 hard-boiled eggs 

Yz pint of finely chopped cooked ham 

y 2 pint of milk 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

4 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

1 teaspoonful of onion juice 

Yz teaspoonful of salt 

1 dash of cayenne 

1 dash of white pepper 

Chop the eggs very fine, mix them with 
the ham; add the parsley, onion juice and 
pepper. Rub the butter and flour together 
and add the milk. Stir until you have a 
smooth, thick sauce, then add the salt; mix 
this with the other ingredients and turn it 
out to cool. When cold form into a chop 
about the size of an ordinary mutton chop. 
Dip first in egg beaten with a tablespoonful 
of water, then cover carefully with bread 
crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with 
either tomato or brown sauce. 

Plain Scrambled Eggs 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
shallow frying pan. Add a tablespoonful of 
water to each egg. Six eggs are quite 



66 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

enough for four people. Add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Give two or three beats — enough to break 
the eggs ; turn them into the frying pan, on 
the hot butter. Constantly scrape from the 
bottom of the pan with a fork, while they are 
cooking. Serve with a garnish of broiled 
bacon and toast. 



Scrambled Eggs with Chipped Beef 

Pull apart a quarter of a pound of chip- 
ped beef, cover with boiling water, let it 
stand ten minutes, drain and dry. Put it 
into a saucepan with two level tablespoonfuls 
of butter, four eggs, beaten until they are 
well mixed, and a dash of pepper. Stir with 
a fork until the eggs are "set." 



Eggs Scrambled with Lettuce 

Remove the outside leaves from one head 
of lettuce ; wash, dry, and with a very sharp 
knife cut them into shreds. Chop sufficient 
onion to make a tablespoonful. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into a saucepan, add the 



COOKING OF EGGS 67 

onion, shake until the onion is soft, then add 
six eggs, beaten without separating until well 
mixed, but not light. Add a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a half saltspoonful of pepper and 
the shredded lettuce. Stir with a fork until 
the eggs are "set," turn at once onto a 
heated platter, garnish with triangular pieces 
of toast and send to the table. 



Scrambled Eggs with Shrimps 

6 eggs 

1 can of shrimps or its equivalent in fresh 
shrimps 

1 green pepper 
y 2 pint of strained tomato 
Yz teaspoonful of salt 

Beat the eggs until well mixed, without 
separating. Put the butter in a saucepan, 
add the pepper, chopped ; shake until the pep- 
per is soft, add the tomato and all the sea- 
soning, and the shrimps. Bring to boiling 
point, push to the back of the stove where it 
will simmer while you scramble the eggs. 
Put the scrambled eggs on toast in the center 
of a platter, pour over and around the shrimp 
mixture and send to the table. 



68 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Eggs Scrambled with Fresh Tomatoes 

3 tomatoes 

4 eggs 

i teaspoonful of onion juice 

1 level teaspoonful of salt 
i saltspoonful of pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Peel the tomatoes, cut them into halves 
and squeeze out the seeds. Cut the tomatoes 
into small bits, put them into a saucepan with 
the salt, pepper and butter; when these are 
hot add the eggs, beaten until well mixed, 
stir until the eggs are "set," turn into a 
heated dish, garnish with toast and send to 
the table. 

Eggs Scrambled with Rice and 
Tomato 

This is an exceedingly nice dish for sup- 
per where one does not care for meat. Four 
or six eggs can be used to each half-pint of 
cold boiled rice, and either three fresh toma- 
toes, chopped, or two-thirds of a cupful of 
solid strained tomato. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter, a half teaspoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonful of pepper and the tomatoes into a 
sancepan; when hot add the rice, and when 
the rice is hot add the eggs, beaten without 



COOKING OF EGGS 69 

being very light. As soon as the eggs are 
"set" serve this in a vegetable dish covered 
with squares of toasted bread. This recipe 
is also nice with hard-boiled eggs; proceed 
as directed, and at last add the hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced. 

Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus Tips 

1 small can of asparagus tips 
6 eggs 

1 tablespoonful of butter 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 
1 dash of pepper 

Beat the eggs, add the salt, pepper and 
butter. Put them into a saucepan, add at 
once the asparagus tips and stir with a fork 
until the mixture is "set." 

Egg Flip 

This dish is exceedingly nice for a child 
or an invalid. Separate one egg, beat the 
white to a stiff froth, add the yolk and beat 
again. Heap this in a pretty saucer, dust 
lightly with powdered sugar, put in the cen- 
ter a teaspoonful of brandy, and serve at 
once. Sherry or Madeira may be substituted 
for the brandy. 



OMELETS 

A plain French omelet is, perhaps, one 
of the most difficult of all things to make; 
that is, it is the most difficult to have well 
made in the ordinary private house. Fail- 
ures come from beating the eggs until they 
are too light, or having the butter too hot, or 
cooking the omelet too long before serving. 

In large families, where it is necessary to 
use a dozen eggs, two omelets will be better 
than one. A six-egg omelet is quite easily 
handled. Do not use milk; it toughens the 
eggs and gives an unpleasant flavor to the 
omelet. An "omelet pan," a shallow frying 
pan, should be kept especially for omelets. 
Each time it is used rub until dry, but do not 
wash. Dust it with salt and rub it with 
brown paper until perfectly clean. 

To make an omelet: First, put a table- 
spoonful of butter in the middle of the pan. 
Let it heat slowly. Break the eggs in a 
bowl, add a tablespoonful of water to each 
egg and give twelve good, vigorous beats. 
To each six eggs allow a saltspoonful of 



OMELETS J I 

pepper, and, if you like, a tablespoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. Take the eggs, a 
limber knife and the salt to the stove. Draw 
the pan over the hottest part of the fire, turn 
in the eggs, and dust over a half teaspoonful 
of salt. Shake the pan so that the omelet 
moves and folds itself over each time you 
draw the pan towards you. Lift the edge 
of the omelet, allowing the thin, uncooked 
portion of the egg to run underneath. 
Shake again, until the omelet is "set." Have 
ready heated a platter, fold over the omelet 
and turn it out. Garnish with parsley, and 
send to the table. 

If one can make a plain French omelet, 
it may be converted into many, many kinds. 



Omelet with Asparagus Tips 

Make a plain omelet from six eggs, have 
ready a half pint of cream sauce, and either 
a can or a bundle of cooked asparagus. Cut 
ofr the tips, preserving the lower portions 
for another dish. When the omelet is 
turned onto the heated platter, put the 
asparagus tips at the ends, cover them 



>]2 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

with cream sauce, pour the rest of the 
cream sauce in the platter, not over the 
omelet. 

Omelet with Green Peas 

Make a six-egg omelet. Have ready one 
pint of cooked peas, or a can of peas, sea- 
soned with salt, pepper and butter. Just be- 
fore folding the omelet put a tablespoonful 
of peas in the center, fold, and turn out on a 
heated platter. Pour the remaining quantity 
of peas around the omelet, and send at once 
to the table. If you like, you may pour over, 
also, a half pint of cream sauce. 



Havana Omelet 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
chopped onions over hot water until the 
onion is soft and thoroughly cooked. Peel 
four tomatoes, cut them into halves and press 
out the seeds. Then cut each half into quar- 
ters, add four Spanish peppers cut in strips, 
a level teaspoonful of salt and a dash of 
red pepper. Cook until the tomato is soft. 



OMELETS 73 

Make a six-egg omelet. Turn it onto a 
heated platter, put the tomato mixture at the 
ends, and send at once to the table. 



Omelet with Tomato Sauce 

Make a plain omelet with six eggs. Pour 
over a half pint of tomato sauce, and send 
to the table. 



Omelet with Oysters 

Drain, wash, and drain again twenty-five 
oysters. Throw them into a hot saucepan 
and shake until the gills curl. Rub together 
two level tablespoonfuls of flour and two of 
butter. Drain the oysters, put the liquor 
into a half-pint cup, add sufficient milk to fill 
the cup. Add this to the butter and flour. 
When boiling, add the oysters, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper. 
Make a six-egg omelet, turn it onto a heated 
dish, arrange the oysters around the omelet, 
pour over the cream sauce, and send to the 
table. 



74 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Omelet with Sweetbreads 

This is a very good way to make sweet- 
breads do double duty. Boil a pair of sweet- 
breads until they are tender. Remove the 
membrane, cut them into slices; make a 
cream sauce. Add the sweetbreads, and, if 
you like, a half can of chopped mushrooms. 
Make a six-egg omelet, arrange the slices of 
sweetbread around the omelet and pour over 
the cream sauce. 

Omelet with Tomatoes 

Beat six eggs. Add a half pint of rather 
thick stewed tomatoes, a level teaspoonful of 
salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Beat the 
eggs and tomatoes together, and make pre- 
cisely the same as a plain omelet. Do not, 
however, add water, as the tomatoes answer 
the purpose. 

Omelet with Ham 

Mix a half cup of chopped ham with the 
eggs after they have been beaten with the 
water, and finish the same as a plain omelet. 



OMELETS 75 

Omelet with Cheese 

Beat six eggs until they are thoroughly 
mixed. Add a half cupful of thick cream, 
four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, a salt- 
spoonful of black pepper and a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Mix and finish the same as plain 
omelet. 

Omelet with Fine Herbs 

Beat six eggs until thoroughly mixed. 
Add a half cupful of cream, a tablespoonful 
of finely chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of 
pepper and a half teaspoonful of salt. Finish 
the same as a plain omelet. Serve on a 
heated platter and put over a little thin Span- 
ish sauce. 

Spanish Omelet 

Beat six eggs. Add six tablespoonfuls 
of water. Add a saltspoonful of pepper, a 
tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, a 
teaspoonful of onion juice. Put six thin 
slices of bacon in the omelet pan. Cook 
slowly until all the fat is tried out. Remove 
the bacon, add a tablespoonful of chopped 
onion. Cook until the onion is slightly 



j6 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

brown, turn in the eggs and finish the same 
as a plain omelet. Turn onto a heated plat- 
ter, garnish with red and green peppers, and, 
if you like, put two tablespoonfuls of stewed 
tomatoes at each end of the omelet. 



Omelet Jardiniere 

Chop sufficient chives to make a table- 
spoonful. Add a tablespoonful of parsley, a 
tablespoonful of finely chopped onion, and, if 
you have it, a little of the green tops of cel- 
ery. Mix this with six eggs, add six table- 
spoonfuls of water and beat. Make the 
same as a plain omelet. 

Omelet with Fresh Mushrooms 

This is one of the most delicious of all the 
luncheon dishes. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a pound of mushrooms, sliced, a half 
cup of milk and a teaspoonful of salt into a 
saucepan. Cover and cook slowly for 
twenty minutes. Make two six-egg omelets. 
Turn them, side by side, on a large heated 
platter, pour over the fresh mushrooms and 
serve at once. 



OMELETS 7 7 

Omelet O'Brien 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
saucepan with four tablespoonfuls of chop- 
ped onion. Cook until the onion is tender. 
Then add four chopped Spanish peppers, two 
tablespoonfuls of thick tomato, or one whole 
raw tomato cut into bits, four sliced cooked 
okra, a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper. 
Let these cook twenty minutes. Make a six- 
egg* plain omelet, using bacon fat instead of 
butter for the cooking. Remove the slices 
of bacon before they are too hard, as they 
must be used for a garnish. Turn the om- 
elet onto a heated platter, pour around it the 
pepper mixture, garnish with the bacon, and 
send to the table. Canned mushrooms may 
be added, if desired. 

Omelet with Potatoes 

4 eggs 

i cupful of mashed potatoes 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

i level teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 

Beat the eggs, without separating, until 
thoroughly mixed; add them gradually to 



y8 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

the mashed potato, beating all the while ; add 
the salt and pepper. Put the butter into a 
good-sized saute or omelet pan; when hot, 
turn the ingredients into the pan, and smooth 
it down with a pallet knife. Let this cook 
slowly until nicely browned; fold it over as 
you would a plain omelet, and turn onto a 
heated dish. The parsley may be sprinkled 
over the top, or added to the mixture. 



SWEET OMELETS 



Omelet a la Washington 

Put three eggs into a bowl, and three into 
another bowl. Add three tablespoonfuls of 
water to each, and beat. Have two omelet 
pans, in which you have melted butter. Grate 
an apple into one bowl, and into the other 
put a little salt and pepper. Stand two table- 
spoonfuls of jelly in a dish over hot water 
while you cook the omelets. Proceed as for 
plain omelet. The one to which you have 
added the apple, turn out on a plate. Be- 
fore folding the other, put in the center the 
softened currant jelly, then fold it and turn 
it out by the side of the other omelet. Dust 
both with powdered sugar, and send at once 
to the table. Serve a portion of each. 



Omelet with Rum 

Make a plain omelet with six eggs, turn 
it on a heated platter. Dust it with pow- 
dered sugar, and score it across the top with 



80 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

a red-hot poker. Dip four lumps of sugar 
into Jamaica rum and put them on the plat- 
ter. Put over the omelet four tablespoonfuls 
of rum; touch a lighted match to the rum, 
and carry the omelet to the table, burning. 
Baste it with the burning rum until the alco- 
hol is entirely burned off. 

Swiss Souffle 

Allow one egg to each person. Have 
everything in readiness. The maraschino 
cherries must be drained free from the liquor. 
Separate the eggs. Beat the whites until 
they are stiff. Add a level tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar to each white, and beat until 
dry and glossy. Add the yolks of three 
eggs. Mix quickly. Add the grated rind of 
one lemon and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. 
Heap this into individual dishes. Make a 
tiny little hole in the center and put in a 
maraschino cherry, leaving the hole large 
enough to hold a tablespoonful of the liquor 
when the omelet is ready to serve; dust it 
with powdered sugar, bake in a quick oven 
about three minutes, take it from the oven, 
pour in the maraschino juice and send at 



SWEET OMELETS 8 1 

once to the table. These will fall if baked 
too much, but when well made and served 
quickly, is one of the daintiest of desserts. 



Omelet a la Duchesse 

This is a sweet baked omelet, and is 
served the same as one would serve an omelet 
souffle. 

6 eggs 

l / 2 cupful of water 
y 2 a lemon's yellow rind, grated 
y 2 cupful of thick cream 
y 2 cupful of granulated sugar 

i teaspoonful of vanilla or orange flower water 

i small bit of cinnamon 

Put the sugar, water, cinnamon and 
lemon rind over the fire, boil until it spins a 
thread and stand aside to cool. Separate the 
eggs; beat the yolks until creamy, and add 
the cream, then the strained syrup. Add the 
vanilla, and when cool fold in the well-beaten 
whites. Turn at once into a shallow silver 
or granite dish, dust thickly with powdered 
sugar and bake in a quick ovtn until brown. 



82 MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 

Omelet Souffle 

This is, perhaps, one of the most difficult 
of all dishes to make. When, however, you 
have accomplished the art, you have one of 
the most satisfactory desserts. Like the pre- 
ceding recipe, it must be made at the last 
moment and sent from the oven directly to 
the table. The eggs must be beaten to just 
the right point and the oven must be very 
hot. Get everything in readiness before 
beginning to make the souffle. 

Select a bowl, perfectly clean, and ar- 
range the star tube and pastry bag, if you are 
going to use one. If not, get out a baking 
dish. Sift six tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. Separate six eggs. Put three of the 
yolks aside (as you will only use three), and 
beat the other three until creamy. Beat the 
whites until they are very stiff but not dry 
or broken. Now add three tablespoonfuls 
of the sifted powdered sugar. Beat for fully 
ten minutes. Then add the beaten yolks, the 
grated rind of a lemon and at the last a ta- 
blespoonful of lemon juice. Mix carefully 
and quickly, but thoroughly. Put four or 
five tablespoonfuls of this in the bottom of a 
platter, or baking dish. Put the remaining 



SWEET OMELETS 83 

quantity quickly in the pastry bag, and press 
it out into roses. It is easier to make it in 
small rosettes all over the foundation. Dust 
quickly with the remaining three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Bake in a quick oven until 
golden brown. This will take about five 
minutes. Serve immediately. To be just 
right, this must be hot to the very center, 
crisp on top, moist underneath. If baked 
too long, the moment the top is touched it 
will fall, becoming stringy and unpalatable. 
Omelet souffles are frequently flavored 
with rum, which must be mixed with the 
sugar. Sometimes they are sprayed with 
sherry just as they are taken from the oven. 
They may be built up into different forms, 
and garnished with candied or maraschino 
cherries, or chopped nuts. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



INDEX 



Anchovy Sauce, 6 

Asparagus Tips, Eggs Scrambled 
with, 69 
Omelet with, 71 



Balls, Egg, 57 

Beauregard Eggs, 48 

Bechamel Sauce, 7 

Beef, Chipped, Scrambled Eggs 

with, "6 
Benedict Eggs, 46 
Bernaise Eggs, 45 
Birds' Nests, 28 
Brouilli Eggs, 55 
Brown Butter Sauce, 8 
Buckingham Eggs, 37 
Butter, English Drawn, 6 

Nut Brown, Eggs with, 24 

Sauce, Brown, 8 



Cheese, Omelet with, 75 

Chestnuts, Eggs with, 40 

Chipped Beef, Scramb'd Eggs with, 66 

Chops, Egg, 65 

Cooking of Eggs, 12 

Coquelicot Eggs, 25 

Courtland Eggs, 32 

Cream or White Sauce, 8 

Creole Eggs, 47 

Croquettes, Egg, 64 

Crumbing and Egging, 15 

Curried Eggs, 48 

Curry Sauce, 10 



De Lesseps Eggs, 17 

Deviled Egg Salad, 57 
Eggs, 51 



Egg Balls, 57 

Chops, 65 
Croquettes, 64 
Earci, 56 
Flip, 69 
Pudding, 29 
Salad, Deviled, 57 
Timbales, 24 
Egging and Crumbing, 15 
Eggs a l'Aurore, 52 

l'lmperatrice, 39 «**•* 
a la Bennett, 54 

Bonne Femme, 30 
Bourbon, 44 
Dauphin, 53 
Finnois, 38 
Gretna, 38 
Hyde, 61 
Livingstone, 41 
Martin, 21 
Paysanne, 19 
Polonaise, 60 
Regence, 40 
Reine, 17 
Rorer, 46 
Russe, 63 •-» 
Suisse, 23 — 
Trinidad, 19 ) 
Tripe, 51 
Valencienne, 22 
Vinaigrette, 62 
Windsor, 36 
au Gratin, 50 
Miroir, 18 
Baked in Tomato Sauce, 21 
Beauregard, 48 
Benedict, 46 
Bernaise, 45 
Brouilli, 55 
Buckingham, 37 
Cooking of, 12 
Coquelicot, 25 



IOO 



MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS 



Eggs, Courtland, 32 
Creole, 47 
Curried, 48 
de Lesseps, 17 
Deviled, 51 
en Cocotte, 26 
Marinade, 59 
Panade, 28 
Fillets of, 23 
Hard, Japanese, 58 
Hungarian, 34 
Japanese, 35 
Jefferson, 49 
Lafayette, 49 
*■* Lakme, 34 
Louisiana, 33 
Lyonnaise, 63 
Malikoff, 35 
Mexicana, 16 
Meyerbeer, 17 
Mirabeau, 32 
Monte Bello, 43 
Mornay, 42 
Norwegian, 32 
Nova Scotia, 34 
on a Plate, 16 
Plain Scrambled, 65 
Poached, on Fried Tomatoes, 37 
Prescourt, 32 
"" Richmond, 33 
Rossini, 20 
Scalloped, 55 

Scrambled with Asp'gus Tips, 69 
Chipped Beef, 66 
Fresh Tomatoes, 68 
Lettuce, 66 
Rice and Tomato, 68 
Shrimps, 67 
Shirred, 15 

Steamed in the Shell, 27 
Suzette. 26 
To Hard boil, 47 
Poach, 31 
Preserve, 14 
Virginia, 35 
""** Washington, 50 
with Chestnuts, 40 

Nut Brown Butter, 24 
"**" Zanzibar, 42 
English Drawn Butter, 6 

Farci, Egg, 56 
Fillets of Eggs, 23 



Fine Herbs, Omelet with, 75 
Flip, Egg, 69 

Fresh Mushrooms, Omelet with, 76 
Fried Tomatoes, Poached Eggs on, 37 



Green Peas, Omelet with, 72 



Ham, Omelet with, 74 
Hard Eggs, Japanese, 58 
Havana Omelet, 72 
Herbs, Fine, Omelet with, 75 
Hollandaise Sauce, Plain, 6 
Horseradish Sauce, 7 
Hungarian Eggs, 34 



Italian Sauce, 10 



Japanese Eggs, 35 

Hard Eggs, 58 
Jardiniere Omelet, 76 
Jefferson Eggs, 49 



Lafayette Eggs, 49 

Lakme Eggs, 34 
Louisiana Eggs, 33 
Lyonnaise Eggs, 63 



Malikoff Eggs, 35 

Meyerbeer Eggs, 17 

Mexicana Eggs, 16 

Mirabeau Eggs, 32 

Monte Bello Eggs, 43 

Mornay Eggs, 42 

Mushrooms, Fresh, Ome-let with, 76 



Nests, Birds', 28 

Norwegian Eggs, 32 

Nova Scotia Eggs, 34 

Nut Brown Butter, Eggs with, 24 



O'Brien Omelet, 77 

Omelet, a la Duchesse, 81 

Washington, 79 
Havana, 72 
Jardiniere, 76 



INDEX 



101 



Omelet, O'Brien, 77 
Souffle, 82 
Spanish, 75 

with Asparagus Tips, 71 
Cheese, 75 
Fine Herbs, 75 
Fresh Mushrooms, ', 
Green Peas, 72 
Ham, 74 
Oysters, 73 
Potatoes, 77 
Rum, 79 
Sweetbreads, 74 
Tomato Sauce, 73 
Tomatoes, 74 
Omelets, 70 

Sweet, 79 
Oysters, Omelet with, 73 



P&prika Sauce, 10 

Peas, Green, Omelet with, 72 

Perigueux Sauce, 9 

Plain Sauce Hollandaise, 6 

Scrambled Eggs, 05 
Plate, Eggs on a, 16 
Poached Eggs on Fried Tomatoes, 37 
Potatoes, Omelet with, 77 
Prescourt Eggs, 32 
Pudding, Egg, 29 



Rice and Tomato, Eggs Scrambled 

with, 68 
Richmond Eggs, 33 
Rossini Eggs, 20 
Rum, Omelet with, 79 



Salad, Egg, Deviled, 57 

Sauce, 5 

Anchovy, 6 
Bechamel, 7 
Brown Butter, S 
Cream or White, 8 
Curry, 10 

Hollandaise, Plain, 6 
Horseradish, 7 
Italian, 10 



Sauce, Paprika, 10 
Perigueux, 9 

Tarragon, 7 
Tomato, 9 

Eggs Baked in, 21 
Omelet with, 73 
Scalloped Eggs, 55 
Scrambled Eggs, Plain, 65 

with Asparagus Tips, 69 
Chipped Beef, 66 
Fresh Tomatoes, OS 
Lettuce, 66 
Rice and Tomato, 68 
Shrimps, 67 
Shirred Eggs, 15 

Shrimps, Eggs Scrambled with, 67 
Souffle Omelet, 82 

Swiss, 80 
Spanish Omelet, 75 
Steamed Eggs, in the Shell, 27 
Suzette Eggs, 26 
Sweetbreads, Omelet with, 74 
Sweet Omelets, 79 
Swiss Souffle, 80 



Tarragon Sauce, 7 

Timbales, Egg, 24 
To Hard-boil Eggs, 47 
Tomato and Rice, Eggs Scrambled 
with, 68 
Sauce, 9 

Eggs Baked in, 21 
Omelet with, 73 
Tomatoes, Fresh, Scrambled Eggs 
with, 68 
Fried, Poached Eggs on, 37 
Omelet with, 74 
To Poach Eggs, 31 
Preserve Eggs, 14 



Virginia Eggs, 35 



Washington Eggs, 50 
White or Cream Sauce, 8 



Zanzibar Eggs, 42 



SOME OTHER BOOKS 

Published by 

Arnold and Company 



Mrs. Rorer's 
NEW Cook Book 

A big book of 731 pages, abundantly illustrated. Its 
bigness is no criterion of its goodness. The fact that 
it is the best work of the best years of Mrs. Rorer's 
life; that it is a complete new book telling of the things 
one needs to know about cooking, living, health, and 
the easiest and best way of housekeeping— these are 
what make for goodness, and place this book far in 
advance of any other of a like nature. 

The New Cook Book covers all departments of 
cookery. A masterly exposition of each subject is 
given, followed by recipes for the proper preparation, 
cooking and serving of the various kinds of foods. 
There are over 1500 recipes in the book. 

The illustrations are an important feature. One 
set of pictures shows the proper dressing of the table 
during a course dinner. Then there is a complete set 
showing the method of carving meats, poultry, game, 
etc.; and many others illustrating special features of 
the book. 

Large 12mo, 731 pages, profusely and beautifully 

illustrated; bound in cloth, $2.00 net; 

by mail, $2.20 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Philadelphia Cook Book 

This is the standard book of Mrs. Rorer's that has 
been before the public for a number of years. It has 
no connection with Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book. 
Each book is independent of the other, and the posses- 
sion of one forms no reason for doing without the 
other. 

The Philadelphia Cook Book is full of good things, 
and, like all of Mrs. Rorer's works, is eminently prac- 
tical. It is a standard of excellence, in that it is 
full of the brightest things in cookery; the recipes 
are absolutely reliable, and the general instructions 
to housekeepers of the most helpful and necessary 
character. 

Nearly all cook books assume some knowledge and 
experience on the part of those who use them, but Mrs. 
Rorer makes her explanations so clear, and gives such 
definite directions, as to quantities, that the beginner 
has no difficulty in successfully accomplishing all the 
book calls for. Then there are frequent hints as to 
the proper use of left-overs, how to market, and, in 
many ways, information is given that is alike useful to 
the experienced cook as to the tyro in matters culinary. 

The book is full of choice recipes, every one of 
which has been successfully tested by Mrs. Rorer and 
found to come out right. This alone is of incalculable 
benefit and ought to commend the book to the favorable 
consideration of every housekeeper. 

The use of this book in the home means better 
health, better living, economy in the use of food, and 
a consequent saving in dollars and cents. 

12mo, nearly 600 pages, with portrait of author; 
bound in cloth, $1.00 net; by mail, $1.15 



Mrs. Rorer's 

Vegetable Cookery and Meat 

Substitutes 

This book has a twofold object: 

i. To show the value of vegetables in their relation to 
diet and health, how to prepare, cook and serve 
them, what to eat under certain conditions of health, 
and thus have them perform their proper work. 

2. To give to the prudent housewife a knowledge of 
combinations of foods in the shape of toothsome 
recipes to take the place of meat, or as we call 
them — Meat Substitutes. 

It goes without saying that we all know too little 
about the value of vegetables as food. We eat them 
because they are palatable, not realizing their immense 
importance as body builders. Here they are classified, 
and thus made to give us a right idea of their use. 

Then as to Meat Substitutes. It is not necessary 
to be a vegetarian to desire a change from a meat diet. 
There are health reasons often demanding abstention 
from meats ; or economy may be an impelling motive ; 
or a desire for change and variety in the daily bill of 
fare may be warrant enough. However we look at it 
here is the wonder book to point the way to better and 
healthier living. 

There is an abundance of the choicest and most 
palatable recipes, and they are given in such a manner, 
that if the directions are followed, the results are sure. 
You cannot make mistakes. 

12mo, cloth, $1.50 net ; by mail, $1.65 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Every Day Menu Book 

In the course of her teaching and editorial work, 
there have come to Mrs. Rorer frequent requests for 
a book that will provide a daily bill of fare, one that 
will be at once rational, its directions easy of accom- 
plishment, and give an excellent variety. Hence this 
Menu Book. 

It contains a menu for every meal in the year, 
systematically arranged by months and days ; menus for 
special occasions, such as holidays, weddings, luncheons, 
teas, etc. ; illustrations of decorated tables for various 
social events, with appropriate menus; menus arranged 
for the seasons both as to food and decorations; a 
department of menus without meats. A fine volume 
that ought to commend itself to every housekeeper. 

12mo, 300 pages, handsomely illustrated; bound in 
cloth $1.50 net; by mail, $1.65 

Mrs. Rorer's 

Cakes, Icings and Fillings 

Every one is interested in the cake problem. There 
is possibly no item in the home bill of fare on which 
a woman prides herself as the ability to make a good 
cake. But how to add variety to the goodness ? Here's 
the book to help. Contains a large number of enticing 
and valuable recipes for cakes of all sorts and condi- 
tions. Some need filling, some need icing — well, here 
you have all the necessary information. Best of all, 
there is no fear as to results. Follow the directions 
and your cake is bound to come out right. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Canning and Preserving 

The only book on the subject worth the name. In 
it Mrs. Rorer discusses at length the canning and pre- 
serving of fruits and vegetables, with the kindred 
subjects of marmalades, butters, fruit jellies and syrups, 
drying and pickling. The recipes are clearly and simply 
given. In the new edition now presented, the author 
has brought the book up to date, and has included 
many new, rare and original recipes that have been 
accumulating since the book was first introduced. It 
has always been a favorite book with the public, and 
now it will be doubly welcome. 

New Edition: revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
My Best 250 Recipes 

It would be strange indeed if, out of the multitude 
of recipes Mrs. Rorer has invented and used during 
her long career as a teacher, writer and lecturer, she 
did not have some that appealed to her more strongly 
than others. She has gathered these together, classi- 
fying them under their different heads. There are Best 
20 Soups; Best 20 Fish Recipes; Best 20 Meats; Best 
20 Salads; Best 20 Desserts; Best 20 Sauces, Vegeta- 
bles, Fruit Preserves, Luncheon Dishes, Ices, Summer 
Recipes, Left Overs, Game and Poultry, Breads and 
Biscuits, etc. 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs, Rorer's New Salads 

For Dinners, Luncheons, Suppers and Receptions. 
With a group of Odd Salads and some Ceylon Salads. 

A salad made from a succulent green vegetable and 
French dressing, should be seen on the dinner table 
in every well-regulated household three hundred and 
sixty-five times a year. These green vegetables contain 
the salts necessary to the well being of our blood ; the 
oil is an easily-digested form of fatty matter ; the lemon 
juice gives us sufficient acid; therefore simple salads 
are exceedingly wholesome. 

During the summer, the dinner salad may be com- 
posed of any well-cooked green vegetable, served with 
a French dressing; string beans, cauliflower, a mixture 
of peas, turnips, carrots and new beets, boiled radishes, 
cucumbers, tomatoes, uncooked cabbage, and cooked 
spinach. In the winter serve celery, lettuce, endive and 
chicory. 

New Edition : revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's Dainties 

Possibly no part of the daily bill of fare so taxes 
the ingenuity of the housewife as the dessert, that final 
touch to the meal that lingers in the palate like a bene- 
diction. We tire of constant repetitions of familiar 
things. We want variety. Why not have it when 
there are so many ways and means of gratifying our 
tastes. Mrs. Rorer has given here a number of choice 
things covering quite a range of possibilities. 

New Edition: revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Many Ways for Cooking Eggs 

Did you ever reflect what an important part eggs 
play in our domestic economy ? When from any reason 
other things fail, the perplexed housewife knows she 
can do something to tide over her difficulties by the 
use of eggs. But how many know the great possibilities 
that lie in an egg — the very many ways of cooking and 
preparing them for the table? To many, boiled, fried, 
poached and scrambled form the limit of their knowl- 
edge. But get this book and you'll be surprised at the 
feast in store for you. You'll also find recipes for 
delectable Egg Sauces. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Made-Over Dishes 

How to transform the left overs into palatable and 
wholesome dishes. With many new and valuable 
recipes. 
We quote from the author's introduction : 

"Economical marketing does not mean the purchase 
of inferior articles at a cheap price, but of a small 
quantity of the best materials found in the market; 
these materials to be wisely and economically used. 
Small quantity and no waste, just enough and not a 
piece too much, is a good rule to remember. In roasts 
and steaks, however, there will be, in spite of careful 
buying, bits left over, that if economically used, may 
be converted into palatable, sightly and wholesome 
dishes for the next day's lunch or supper. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 

How to Use a Chafing Dish 

Of all the useful and dependable articles of food, 
commend us to the Sandwich. Nothing in the whole 
range of foods presents such a wonderful opportunity 
for variety. The sandwich is the handy thing for 
suppers, teas, social calls, school lunch baskets, picnics — 
but where can you not use it to advantage and enjoy- 
ment? In this book Mrs. Rorer has given a lot of new, 
original recipes, with some very odd ones. She has 
drawn upon her wonderful knowledge and inventive 
faculty and the result is a bewildering array of delect- 
able sandwiches. 

New Edition : revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 

Mrs. Rorer's Sandwiches 

It is wonderful the amount of pleasure and satis- 
faction that can be had with a Chafing Dish. Few 
people know how to use one successfully, although the 
art is easily acquired. This book, for instance, gives 
the proper directions for making hosts of good things, 
and if they are followed implicitly, the most inexperi- 
enced person can be sure of results. It is a handy 
thing in an emergency, and it forms a delightful adjunct 
to a supper or dinner. Guests are always interested in 
watching the evolution of some delectable dish, and 
the head of the table has a chance to show his or 
her skill. 

New Edition : revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Hot Weather Dishes 

Its name tells the whole story. It is the only book 
of the kind published. Hot weather seems to suspend 
the inventive faculty of even the best housekeepers, 
and at a season when the appetite needs every help 
and encouragement, this book will be found of the 
greatest use. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 

Mrs. Rorer's 
Home Candy Making 

A veritable book of sweets, full of choice recipes, 
with complete instructions for making the many deli- 
cacies that delight both young and old. It is the result 
of careful practice in teaching beginners how to make 
attractive and wholesome varieties of home-made 
candies. The excellence of the recipes consists in their 
simplicity and faithfulness to details. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents 

Mrs. Rorer's 
Bread and Bread-Making 

The object of this book is two-fold. First, to give 
in a concise and easily-managed form a set of recipes 
used in every household every day. Secondly, to point 
out the reasons why failures so often occur, even with 
perfect recipes, and how to guard against them. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's Quick Soups 
New Ways for Oysters 

These two books were written in response to 
requests for information on the subjects. Designed to 
meet the special wants of a numerous class of house- 
keepers who are given to entertaining, and are so often 
at loss to know what and how to prepare for their 
guests. The housekeeper will find them very handy 

24mo, cloth, 25 cents net ; by mail, 30 cents 

Household Accounts 

A simple method of recording the daily expenses 
of the family. The book contains ruled pages, syste- 
matically and simply divided into spaces in which are 
kept the purchases for each day of milk, butter, eggs, 
meat, groceries, vegetables, etc. The daily expenses 
total up for the months, and the months for the year. 
There are other forms for recording expenses of help, 
light, heat and general household expenditures in table 
and bed linens, china and kitchen utensils, etc. 

Manilla boards, 25 cents net ; by mail 30 cents 

Cakes, Cake Decorations 
and Desserts 

By Charles H. King. The author tells his meth- 
ods in his own practical way, and gives abundant 
recipes. The book is illustrated by engravings of 
numerous decorated pieces, and has a silhouette chart 

12mo, cloth, $1.00 net ; by mail, $1.15 

Mf 289 




\* 













v^* 



.£* n 

























•^ 









W 





v.^ .vaSftfc V./ •*»* 








^ 



WERT 

BOOKBINDING 

Crantvilte. Pa 

Sept -Oct 1988 

W«>* Quality Sou" 



, , V "•To <V % * 



