PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

AN EPITOME OF LAW APPLICABLE TO 
ENGLAND AND WALES AND SCOTLAND 



BY 

WILLIAM EOBEKTSON, M.D.(Glas.), D.P.H. 

MEEICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH, LEITH ; FORMERLY M.O.H., PAISLEY AND PERTH ; 
LECTURER ON PUBLIC HEALTH, SCHOOL OF MEDICINE, ROYAL COLLEGE OF 
SURGEONS (EDIN.); LECTURER ON PUBLIC HEALTH, EDINBURGH SCHOOL 
OF MEDICINE FOR WOMEN ; EXAMINER FOR THE DIPLOMA IN PUBLIC 
HEALTH (CONJOINT BOARD, SCOTLAND) ; EXAMINER IN PUBLIC 
HEALTH, UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH; EXAMINER, ROYAL 
SANITARY INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC HEALTH; EXAMINER FOR 
MEAT INSPECTORS' CERTIFICATE, INC0RP. SANITARY 
ASSOCIATION, SCOTLAND ; AUTHOR OF " PRACTICAL 
MEAT AND FOOD INSPECTION"; PRACTICAL 
FIRST AID (3RD ED.); JOINT AUTHOR 
" SANITARY LAW AhD PRACTICE " 
(3RD ED.) 

AXD 

ARCHIBALD M<:KENDRICK, F.R.C.S. (Edin.), D.P.H. 

MEDICAL OFFICER JOINTLY IN CHARGE OF X-RAY, MEDICAL ELECTRICAL, AND 
BALNEOLOGICAL DEPARTMENTS 6F THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, EDINBURGH. 




A 

EDINBURGH 

E. & S. LIVINGSTONE 

1912 



PREFACE. 

IN this volume effort has been made to present 
Public Health Law in a succinct form without unduly 
sacrificing the full import of those sections that 
specially interest the student of Public Health. 

By arranging the Acts, etc., in places relevant to 
their countries, the work of the student should be 
simplified, since the English and Scottish Laws have 
been kept apart. The laws applying to the United 
Kingdom have been dealt with on the same principle. 

Whenever possible the sections of the Public Health 
Acts of London and Ireland have been cited in their 
appropriate places, so as to make the comparison of 
powers in the different countries complete. 

The addition of footnotes to sections will, it is 
hoped, draw attention to important points that might 
otherwise escape notice. 

W. ROBERTSON. 
A. M'KENDRICK. 

EDINBURGH, June 1912. 



C O N T E N T S. 



PAGE 



Acts specially applicable to Scotland 

Public Health Administrative Bodies .... 1 

Local Authorities ....... 

Powers of Local Authorities ...... 

Duties of ,, 2 

Bye-Laws (definition) ..... 3 

How to Frame Bye-laws ...... 3 

Matters embraced by Bye -laws ..... 4 

Buildings, exempt from ...... 4 

Regulations ........ 4 

Medical Officer of Health and Sanitary Inspector . 4-5 

M. 0. H. (Duties and Draft Regulations) ... 5-9 

Sanitary Inspector (Duties and Draft Regulations) . 10-14 

Definitions of Terms in P. H. (S.) A., 1897 . . . 15-17 

Public Health (Scotland) Act, 1897 .... 18-85 

Burgh Police (Scotland) Act, 1892 .... 85-112 

1903 .... 112-127 

Local Government (Scotland) Act, 1908 . . . 127 

Cattle Sheds in Burghs (Scotland) Act, 1896 . . 128 

Education (Scotland) Act, 1908 129 

The Local Education Authorities (Medical Treatment) 

Act, 1909 130 

Vaccination Acts, epitomised 130 

Vaccination Acts, 1863, 1907 130 

Burial Grounds (Scotland) Act, 1855 .... 131-133 

Prevention of Tuberculosis, epitomised . . . . 133 

Public Health (S.) Act 1897, and P.H.(S.)A.A., 1907 . 133 

Smoke Nuisance Abatement Acts, 1857, 1861, 1865 . 134 

ix 



X CONTENTS 

PAOR 

Acts applicable to England and Wales . . . 135-226 

Public Health Act, 1875 (definitions under) . . 135-137 

1875 137-177 

Infectious Disease Prevention Act, 1890 . . . 177-180 

Public Health Acts (Amendment) Act, 1890 ' . . 181-189 

Infectious Diseases Notification (Extension) Act, 1899 . 189 

Public Health Acts (Amendment) Act, 1907 . . . 190-201 

Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1874 . . 201-203 

Public Health (Fruit Pickers' Lodgings) Act, 1882 . 203 

Cemetery Clauses Act, 1847 203 

Burial Act, 1853 204 

Public Health (Interments) Act, 1879 .... 205 

Memorandum under, by L.G.B. . . . . . 205 

Model Bye-laws with regard to Cemeteries . . . 206 

Disused Burial Grounds Act, 1884 . . . . 207 

Burial Act, 1900 208 

1906 . 208 

The Towns Improvement Clauses Act, 1 847 . . . 208 

Memorandum under, with regard to Slaughter Houses . 208-210 

Vaccination Acts, 1867, 1887, 1898, 1907 . . . 211-213 

Isolation Hospitals Acts, 1893-1901 .... 213-217 

The Public Health (Water) Act, 1878 . . . . 217-218 

Midwives Act, 1902 219 

Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907 . . 223 

Public Health (Tuberculosis) Regulations, 1908 . . 223 

,, (Tuberculosis in Hospital) Regulations, 1911 224 

(Tuberculosis) Regulations, 1911 . . 225-226 

Acts applicable to United Kingdom .... 227-359 

The Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875 .... 227-231 

,, ,, Amendment Act, 1879 . 231-232 

Margarine Act, 1887 232-234 



CONTENTS XI 

PAGE 

Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1899 . . . . 234-236 

Sale of Milk Regulations, 1901 ..... 236 

,, Butter Regulations, 1902 237 

Public Health (Milk and Cream) Regulations, 1912 . 241-244 

Butter and Margarine Act, 1907 - .... 244-246 

Canal Boats Acts, 1877, 1884, and Regulations . . 246-248 

Eivers Pollution Prevention Acts, 1876-1893 . . 249-252 

The Public Health (Ships) Act, 1885 . . . . 252 

Infectious Disease (Notili cation) Act, 1889 . . . 253-256 

,, Extension Act, 1899 . 256 

Cholera, Plague, and Yellow Fever Regulations . . 256-264 

Rats, Orders and Regulations ..... 264-267 

Public Health (Port) Act, J 896 267 

Housing of the Working Classes Acts .... 267-281 

Housing, Town Planning, etc., Act, 1909 . . . 282-292 

,, ,, ,, Regulations . . 292 

Customs and Inland Revenue Acts, 1890, 1903 . . 293 

The Merchant Shipping Acts, 1892-1894 . . . 294 

Shops Act, 1912 295-297 

Public Health Act, 1896 297 

1904 298 

Cleansing of Persons Act, 1897 ..... 299 

Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops Regulations . . 299-302 

For Orders, nee Appendix 387 

Factory and Workshop Act, 1901 . . . . 302-314 

1907 .... 315 

Sanitary Accommodation Order 316 

Cremation Act, 1902 316 

,, ,, Regulations 317-321 

Sale of Horse Flesh, etc., Regulation Act, 1889 . . 321 

Contagious Diseases (Animals) Act, 1894 . . . 322-325 



Xll CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Alkali Works Regulation Act, 1906 .... 325-327 

Anthrax Order, 1910 327-334 

Notification of Births Act, 1907 334 

Children Act, 1908 335-339 

Unsound Food Law, epitomised ..... 339 

Public Health (Foreign Meat) Regulations, 1 908 . . 339-350 
,, (First Series- Unsound Food) Regulations, 

1908 350-359 

Vital Statistics 360-381 

Model Bye-laws as to w.-c.s., etc., epitomised . . 383 

,, regarding New Buildings . 385 

Dairies, Cow-sheds, and Milkshops Orders . . . 387-389 



ACTS SPECIALLY APPLICABLE TO 
SCOTLAND. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES. 

LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD. 

This is the Central Authority, and is entrusted with the 
supervision of the various bodies called Local Authorities, 
who are charged with the government of the areas into 
which the country is divided. It is the Court of Appeal of 
these various bodies, and supervises the work done by them 
so far as the working of the various Acts of Parliament 
bearing upon Public Health is concerned. 

In Scotland the L.G.B. consists of six members : 
(i) President who is the Secretary for Scotland, 
(ii) Vice-President. 
(iii) Solicitor-General for Scotland, 
(iv) Under Secretary for Scotland, 
(v) Legal Member, 
(yi) Medical Member. 

The L.G.B. have power by the Public Health (Scotland) 
Act: 

(i) To enquire into the sanitary condition of any 

district. 

(ii) To authorise certain inquiries, 
(iii) To appoint Commissioners to hold inquiries. 

A 



2 PUBLIC: HEALTH LAW 

LOCAL AUTHORITIES. 
The country is divided into "counties." 
The county may be divided into " districts." 
A district may be divided into Burghs. 
The County Council, the District Council, or the Burgh 
Commissioners may be the Local Authority. 

P6WERS OF THE LOCAL AUTHORITY. 

(i) May refuse to grant licence for a slaughter-house, 
(ii) May add to the statutory list of offensive trades, 
(iii) May provide nurses, medicine, accommodation, etc., in 

epidemics. 

(iv) May provide disinfecting apparatus, 
(v) May form special water supply or drainage districts, 
(vi) May acquire land and borrow for the purpose, 
(vii) May provide lodging-houses for workmen, 
(viii) May provide hospital accommodation, 
(ix) May defray cost of vaccination and re-vaccination, 
(x) May appoint assistants to M.O.H. in case of cholera, 

etc. 
(xi) May deal with persons under Cleansing of Persons 

Act, 1897. 
(xii) May make bye-laws. 

DUTIES OF LOCAL AUTHORITY, 
(i) Must keep a register, and inspect under Dairies, 

Cowsheds, and Milkshops Orders, 
(ii) Must attend to carrying out of Sale of Food and 

Drugs Acts. 
(iii) Must obey the Regulations of the L.G.B. regarding 

cholera, yellow fever, and plague. 

(iv) Must obey the memorandum issued by the Home 
Office, regarding the Factory and Workshop Act of 
1901. 
(v) Must appoint a M.O.H. and S.I. 



BYE- LAWS 3 

BYE-LAWS. 

DEFINITION. 

A bye-law is made with due legal obligation by some 
authority less than the Sovereign and Parliament, and not 
provided for by the law of the land. 
The properties of a bye-law are that-: 
(i) It must be consistent with and not repugnant to the 

general law. 
(ii) It must provide something in addition to the general 

law, and therefore must not simply re-enact it. 
{iii) It must be free from ambiguity, and afford complete 

direction to those who are to obey it. 
(iv) It must be positive in its terms, and directed to pro- 
hibit or enjoin an act by the person on whom it is 
to operate* 

{v) It must be general in its application, and reasonable, 
(vi) It must operate upon persons in a district subject 
to the control of the special L.A. (i.e. it must 
not be ultra vires). 

(vii) It must prescribe a definite penalty for its contraven- 
tion. If bye-laws are not strictly limited to the 
terms of the statute from which they derive their 
authority, the L.G.B. have power to withhold their 
confirmation. 

HOW TO FRAME BYE-LAWS. 

Bye-laws may be framed in order to prevent or diminish 
noxious or injurious effects of certain trades, and should 
be framed under some general principle, as : 

(a) Site, structure, ventilation, etc., of the premises. 

(6) Conduct of the business. 

(c) Mode of application for sanction to carry on such 
business. 



4 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

MATTERS EMBRACED BY BYE-LAWS. 

Bye-laws may be made under various sections of the- 
P.H.(S.)A. and of the B.P. Acts, and under the Dairies, 
Cowsheds, and Milkshops Orders. The following is a short 
list : 

(i) Offensive trades, including slaughter-houses, (ii) Pig- 
styes, (iii) Public Conveyances, (iv) Public Mortuaries, 
(v) Houses let in Lodgings, (vi) Tents and Vans. (vii) 
Common Lodging-houses. (viii) Removal of Infected 
Persons from ships to hospital, (ix) Buildings. 

BUILDINGS EXEMPT FROM BYE-LAWS. 

(i) Buildings in His Majesty's possession. 

(ii) County or Burgh Asylums. 

(iii) Buildings in connection with mines. 

(iv) Buildings used in connection with land. 

(v) Out-houses. 

(vi) Temporary Hospitals. 

REGULATIONS. 

Regulations differ from bye-laws in so far as they do not 
require confirmation by the L.G.B., but are made by the 
L.A. 

The L.G.B. issue model regulations for the guidance of 
the L.A. 

The L.G.B. issue regulations regarding epidemic diseases, 
cholera, plague, and yellow fever, the removal of infected 
persons to hospital, and housing and town planning. 

MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH. 

Broadly speaking, the M.O.H. is the adviser to the Sani- 
tary Authority on all questions relating to health and 
sanitation, and to him all Sanitary Inspectors are responsible 



MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH 5 

in England and Wales, but in Scotland the duties of each 
are kept as far apart as possible, so that there shall be no 
overlapping of work. 

The L.G.B. have issued draft regulations for the guidance 
of the L. A. in regulating the duties of the M.O.H. and S.I. 

These regulations have no force till they have been 
adopted by the L.A., and approved by the L.G.B. 

APPOINTMENT OF M.O.H. AND S.I. 

ENGLAND. Sees. 189, 190, 191, 192, 197 of the P.H.A. 
1875, detail the responsibilities of Sanitary Authorities with 
regard to the appointment of these officials. The Housing 
and Town Planning Act, 1 909 (sec. 68), makes it incumbent 
upon County Councils to appoint M.O.Hs. 

SCOTLAND. Sec. 15 of the P.H.(S.)A. 1897, deals with 
the appointment of M.O.H. and S.I. In all Burghs in Scot- 
land a M.O.H. must be appointed (sec. 77 B.P.A. 1892). 

IRELAND. Sec. 11 of the P.H.A. 1878, and the L.G.B. 
Orders deal with the appointment of the respective officials. 

DUTIES OF THE M.O.H. (L.G.B. Draft Regulations). 

(i) The M.O.H. shall perform all the duties lawfully 
imposed upon him by any bye-laws and regulations 
of the L.A., and shall further observe and execute, 
so far as the circumstances of his district may require, 
the instructions of the L.G.B. 

(ii) The M.O.H. shall attend all meetings of the L.A. 
and committees thereof when so required. 

(iii) The M.O.H. shall inform himself so far as practicable 
respecting all influences affecting or threatening to 
affect injuriously the public health within his district. 

(iv) The M.O.H. shall inquire into, and ascertain by 
such means as are at his disposal, the cause, origin, 
and distribution of disease within his district, and 



6 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

ascertain to what extent the same have resulted from 
or may depend on conditions capable of removal or 
mitigation. 

(v) The M.O.H. shall, by inspection of his district, both 
systematically at certain periods and as occasion may 
require, keep himself informed of the conditions 
injurious or dangerous to health existing therein. 

(vi) The M.O.H. shall advise the L.A. on all matters 
affecting the health of his district, and on all sanitary 
points involved in the action of the L.A., and in 
cases requiring it, he shall certify for the guidance 
of the L.A. or of the Sheriff or any Magistrate or 
Justice, as to any matter, in respect of which the 
certificate of an M.O.H, or a medical practitioner is 
required, as the basis or in aid of sanitary action. 

(vii) The M.O.H. shall advise the L.A. on any question 
relating to health involved in the framing and sub- 
sequent working of such bye-laws and regulations a 
they may have power to make. 

(viii) When a certificate has been received from a medical 
practitioner, or a notice from the head of a family, in 
terms of sec. 3 (1) a and b of the Infectious Disease 
(Notification) Act or otherwise, of the existence of 
a case of infectious disease which has come to his 
knowledge, the M.O.H. shall instruct the S.I. or 
other competent officer to make the necessary 
inquiries, and to take such measures as are necessary 
for preventing the spread of the disease. 

(ix) It shall be the duty of the M.O.H. to enter or cause 
to be entered both the certificates and the notices in 
a book to be provided by the L.A., and to be called 
the Register of Notifications, which shall be kept in 
the office of the L.A. for that purpose. He shall 
also tabulate, and report to each ordinary meeting of 
the L.A. the notifications received. 



MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH 7 

(x) The M.O.H. shall also keep any other books or forms 
in connection with the Infectious Disease (Notifica- 
tion) Act which the L.G.B. or the L.A. may from 
time to time consider necessary. 

(xi) On receiving information of the outbreak of any 
dangerous infectious disease within his district, the 
M.O.H. shall visit without delay the place where the 
outbreak has occurred, and inquire into the causes 
and circumstances of such outbreak ; and if in any case 
he is not satisfied that all due precautions are being 
taken, he shall advise the persons competent to act 
as to the measures which may appear to him to be 
required to prevent the extension of the disease, and 
shall take such measures for the prevention of disease 
as he is legally authorised to take under any statute in 
force in the district or by any resolution of the L.A. 

(xii) When, in his opinion, any infectious disease threatens 
to become dangerous or epidemic within the district, 
the M.O.H. shall forthwith report the same to the 
L.G.B. and to the L.A., stating the extent of the 
outbreak, its supposed origin, and the measures 
adopted for the prevention of the spread of the 
disease, and for the isolation and treatment of those 
affected. 

(xiii) When the M.O.H. becomes aware that any infectious 
disease within the meaning of the Infectious Disease 
(Notification) Act exists at any dairy within the 
meaning of the P.H.(S.)A. 1897, or in any household 
of any person registered under the Dairies, Cowsheds, 
and Milkshops Orders, and that milk is supplied 
from such dairy or by any such person without the 
district, he shall report forthwith the same to the 
L.G.B. and to the L.A., specifying the name and 
address of such dairy or person, and of the person to 
whom such milk is consigned, or the district within 



8 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

which it is supplied, and the measures adopted to 
prevent the spread of the disease. 

(xiv) The M.O.H. shall report to the L.G.B. and to the 
L.A. every case of smallpox in the district as soon as 
it comes to his knowledge.* 

(xv) When the M.O.H. becomes aware that any infectious 
disease exists in any house in which children of 
school age reside, he shall cause intimation thereof 
to be made to the Clerk of the School Board, and to 
the Headmaster of the school which such children or 
any of them may be attending. 

(xvi) Whenever the L.G.B. shall make regulations for all 
or any of the purposes specified in sec. 79 of the 
P.H.(S.)A. 1897, and shall declare the regulations 
so made to be in force within his district, or 
any part thereof, the M.O.H. shall observe such 
regulations so far as the same relate to or concern his 
office. 

(xvii) The M.O.H. on receiving information from any S.I. 
that his intervention is required in connection with 
any nuisance, shall, as early as practicable, take such 
steps as he is legally authorised to take under any 
statute in force in the district, or by any resolution 
of the L.A., as the circumstances of the case may 
justify and require. 

If the L.A. desire that the M.O.H. shall super- 
intend the work of the S.I., the L.A. may make 
regulations to that effect. 

(xviii) The M.O.H. shall in any case, when required by 
the L.A. or when it appears to him to be necessary 
or advisable, exercise the powers conferred on him by 
sec. 43 of the P.H.(S.)A. 1897. In the case of any 

* In England the M.O.H. does not notify each case of 
small-pox to the L.G.B., but includes such in his weekly returns. 



MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH 9 

proceeding with regard to a living animal, he shall 
call upon the V.S. approved by the L.A. to accom- 
pany him. 

(xix) The M.O.H. shall inquire into any offensive process 
of trade carried on within his district, and report 
on the appropriate means for the prevention of any 
nuisance, or injury to health therefrom, 
(xx) The M.O.H. shall from time to time inspect any bake- 
houses which are workshops and are situated within 
his district, and he shall thereupon report to the L.A. 
whether any steps are necessary to be taken, for the 
purpose of enforcing as respects such bakehouses, the 
provisions of the Factory and Workshop Act. 
(xxi) The M.O.H. shall from time to time report in 
writing to the L.A. his proceedings, and the measures 
which may require to be adopted for the improve- 
ment or protection of the public health in his district. 
He shall, in like manner, report with respect to the 
sickness occurring within his district, so far as he is 
able to ascertain the same, and with respect to the 
mortality thereof. 

(xxii) The M.O.H. shall also from time to time make 
such reports and returns as may be called for by the 
L.A. or the L.G.B. 

(xxiii) The M.O.H. shall keep a book or books, to be 
provided by the L.A., in which he shall make an 
entry of his visits, and notes of his observations and 
instructions thereon, and also the date and nature of 
applications made to him, the date and the result of 
the action taken thereon, and of any action taken on 
previous reports ; and shall produce such book or 
books, whenever required by the L.A. 

(xxiv) The M.O.H. shall examine and report on all plans 
submitted to him by the L.A. 



10 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



SANITARY INSPECTOR. 

The L.G.B. have issued draft regulations for the guidance 
of the L. A. on the same lines as those for the M.O.H. 



DUTIES OF THE SANITARY INSPECTOR. 

(i) The S.I. shall perform all the duties specially 
imposed upon a S.I. by any statute or by any order 
issued by the L.G.B., or by any bye-law or regulation 
lawfully made by the L.A. (The L.A. have power 
to say whether or not the S.I. shall act under the 
superintendence of the M.O.H.) 

(ii) The S.I. shall attend all meetings of the L.A. and 
Committees thereof when so required. 

(iii) The S.I. shall, by inspection of his district, both 
systematically at certain periods and as occasion may 
require, keep himself informed in respect of the 
nuisances existing therein that require removal. 

(iv) On receiving any complaint or information of the 
existence of any nuisance within his district, the S.I. 
shall, as early as practicable, visit the place, and if he 
finds that a nuisance under the P.H.A. exists, be 
shall intimate the same within twenty-four hours 
thereafter to the author of the nuisance, and shall, 
after a reasonable interval, visit and inquire, and if 
he finds that the nuisance is not removed, he shall 
report the matter in writing to the L.A., and act in 
accordance with such instructions as he may receive, 
(v) Whenever it appears to the S.I. that the inter- 
vention of the M.O.H. is necessary in connection 
with any nuisance, he shall forthwith inform such 
officer thereof, and shall, if requested, accompany 
and assist him in his inspection of the locality. 

(vi) The S.I., if directed by the L.A. to do so, shall 



SANITARY INSPECTOR 11 

superintend and see to the due execution of all works 
which may be undertaken under their direction for 
the removal of nuisances within his district. 

(vii) The S.I. shall keep the Register of Common Lodg- 
ing Houses, he shall visit and inquire as to the 
condition of each common lodging-house within his 
district at least once every calendar month, or 
oftener if required by the L.A., and enter in his 
journal a report of the result ; he shall also report in 
writing to the L.A. all unregistered common lodging- 
houses, as well as any violation of the statutory 
provisions or of the bye-laws of the L.A. relating 
to common lodging-houses, which may come to his 
knowledge, and act in accordance with such instruc- 
tions as lie may receive. 

(viii) The S.I. shall keep the register of houses let in 
lodgings in accordance with the bye-laws made by the 
L.A.; he shall visit and inquire into the condition of 
each such house within the district at least once 
every calendar month, or oftener if required by the 
L. A., and enter in his journal a report of the result ; 
he shall also report in writing to the L.A. all such 
houses which in his opinion it is expedient to register, 
as well as any violation of the bye-laws of the L.A. 
relating to houses let in lodgings which may come 
to his knowledge, and act in accordance with such 
instructions as he may receive. 

(ix) The S.I. shall keep a register of all offensive busi- 
nesses lawfully established and carried on within the 
district, and shall report to the L.A. any contraven- 
tion of the bye-laws relating to such businesses ; he 
shall also report when any offensive business is estab- 
lished or enlarged without the sanction of the L.A., 
or when any premises are used as a slaughter-house 
or knacker's yard without a licence. 



12 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(x) The S.I. shall from time to time visit and inspect 
any water-closet, earth-closet, privy, or similar con- 
venience within the district, used in common by the 
occupiers of two or more separate dwelling-houses, or 
by other persons, and shall report to the L.A. any 
offence under sec. 31 of the P.H. (S.) A. 1897. 
(xi) The S.I. shall from time to time visit and inspect 
the workshops within the district, and shall report 
to the L.A. any contravention of the sanitary pro- 
visions of the Factory and Workshop Act. On 
receipt by the L.A. of any notice from the inspector 
under the said Act as to any sanitary defect, the S.I. 
shall forthwith inquire into the same and report the 
result to the L.A. 

(xii) The S.I. shall from time to time visit the shops 
and places within the district with a view to the 
prevention of the sale of unsound food, and shall on 
receiving any complaint, or when required by the 
L.A., or when it appears to him to be necessary or 
advisable, exercise the powers conferred on him by 
sec. 43 of the P.H. (S.) A. 1897. In any case of 
doubt, he shall report the matter to the M.O.H. with 
a view of obtaining his advice thereon. In the case 
of any proceeding with regard to a living animal, he 
shall call upon the V.S. approved by the L.A. to 
accompany him. 

(xiii) The S.I. shall, when and as directed by the L.A., 
procure samples of food or drugs, and if he suspect 
the same to have been sold to him contrary to any 
provision of the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, he 
shall submit the same to be analysed by the analyst 
appointed under the said Acts, and if it appear from 
the certificate of the analyst that an offence against 
some one of the provisions of the said Acts has been 
committed, he shall report the matter to the L.A., 



SANITARY INSPECTOR 13 

and act in accordance with any instructions he may 
receive. 

(xiv) The S.I. shall keep the register of cow-keepers, 
dairymen, and purveyors of milk, and shall from 
time to time, and once at least in every three months, 
visit all dairies, cow-sheds, and milk-shops within the 
district, and report the result to the L.A. He shall 
also forthwith inform the L.A. of any infringement 
of the orders or regulations applicable to such 
premises. 

(xv) The S.I. shall from time to time make such inquiries 
as may be necessary, with a view to ascertaining 
whether the bye-laws made by the L.A. are duly 
observed, and shall report to the L.A. any violation 
of the bye-laws which may come to his knowledge. 

(xvi) In every case in which it shall be reported, or 
otherwise become known to him, that any person in 
a common lodging-house, or in a tent, van, shed, or 
similar structure, is suffering from any infectious 
disease, the S.I. shall forthwith report the same to 
the M.O.H., and act under his instructions. 

(xvii) The S.I. shall, by the instructions of the M.O.H., 
remove or superintend the removal of any patient 
suffering from infectious disease, and shall carry out 
any process of disinfection or any other measures 
that may be required for preventing the spread of 
infectious disease. He shall also, as soon as possible, 
examine the sanitary arrangements of any house in 
which infectious disease has occurred, and report to 
the M.O.H. 

(xviii) The S.I. shall, under the direction of the M.O.H., 
make inquiries into the circumstances of each case 
of infectious disease within the district, as regards 
facilities for isolation, employment, school, water 
supply, milk supply, and any other matters likely 



14 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

to assist the M.O.H. in carrying out his statutory 
duties; he shall also serve notices required by sec. 
50 (2) and 53 (2) of the P.H. A. . 

{xix) The S.I. shall enter from day to day in a book to be 
provided by the L.A. particulars of his inspections, 
and any action taken by him in the execution of his 
duties. He shall also keep a book or books to be 
provided by the L.A. so arranged as to form, as far 
as possible, a continuous record of the sanitary 
condition of each of the premises in respect of which 
any action has been taken under the P.H.(S.)A. 
1897, or under any other Statute, and shall keep 
any other systematic records that the L.A. may 
require. 

(xx) The S.I. shall at all reasonable times when applied 
to by the M.O.H. produce to him his books or any 
of them, and render to him such information as he 
may be able to furnish with respect to any matter to 
which the duties of the S.I. relate. 

(xxi) The S.I. shall observe and execute all lawful orders 
and instructions of the L.A. and the L.G.B. applicable 
to his office ; and, if required, he shall attend upon 
the inspecting officer of the L.G.B. and afford him 
such information and assistance as he may desire, 
{xxii) The S.I. shall examine and report on all plans 
submitted to him by the Local Authority. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 15 

DEFINITIONS. 

DECREE OR DECERN includes any warrant, sentence, judg- 
ment, order, or interlocutor. 

PREMISES includes lands, buildings, vehicles, tents, vans, 
structures of any kind, streams, lakes, seashore, drains, 
ditches, or places open, covered, or enclosed, whether 
built on or not, and whether public or private, and 
whether natural or artificial, and whether maintained or 
not under statutory authority, and any ship lying in 
any sea, river, harbour, or other water, or ex adverse of 
any place within the limits of the L. A. 

LAND includes water, and any right or servitude to or over 
land or water. 

SHIP includes any sailing or steamship, vessel, or boat not 
belonging to H.M. or any Foreign Government. 

STREET includes any highway (not being a turnpike road), 
and any public bridge (not being a county bridge), and 
any road, lane, footway, square, court, alley, or passage, 
whether a thoroughfare or not. 

HOUSE includes schools, also factories and other buildings in 
which persons are employed. 

ASHPIT means any ashpit, dust-bin, ash-tub, or other 
receptacle for the deposit of ashes or refuse matter. 

KNACKER means a person whose business it is to kill any 
horse, ass, mule, or cattle, which is not killed for the 
purpose of the flesh being used as butcher's meat. 

KNACKER'S YARD means any building or place used for the 
purpose of such a business. 

SLAUGHTERER OP CATTLE AND HORSES means a person whose 
business it is to kill any description of cattle or horses, 
asses or mules, for the purpose of the flesh being used 
as butcher's meat. 



16 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

SLAUGHTER HOUSE means any building or place used for the 
purpose of such a business. 

DAIRY includes any farm, farm-house, cowshed, milk-store, 
milk-shop, or other place from which milk is supplied, 
or in which milk is kept for the purpose of sale. 

DAIRYMAN includes any cowkeeper, purveyor of milk, or 
occupier of a dairy. 

OWNER means the person for the time entitled to receive, or 
who would' receive, if the same were let, the rents of 
the premises, and includes a trustee, factor, tutor, 
or curator, and in case of public or municipal property, 
applies to the persons to whom the management thereof 
is entrusted. 
Note. The definition of Owner in the B.P.A. is different. 

OCCUPIER means, in the case of a building or part of a 
building, the person in occupation or having the charge, 
management, or control thereof, either on his own 
account or as the agent of another person, and in the 
case of a ship, means the master or other person in 
charge thereof. 

AUTHOR OP A NUISANCE means the person through whose act 
or default the nuisance is caused, exists, or is continued, 
whether he be the occupier or owner or both. 

CATTLE means bulls, cows, oxen, heifers, and calves, and 
includes sheep, goats, and swine. 

BURIAL includes cremation. 

DAY AND DAYTIME means between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. 

COMMON LODGING-HOUSE is a lodging-house where lodgers 
are housed at an amount not exceeding 4d. per night, 
which sum may be raised to 6d., see sec. 8-9 P.H.(S.)A. 
1897, and includes any place where emigrants are 
lodged, and all boarding-houses for seamen, irrespective 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 17 

(Definitions) 

of the rate charged for lodging or boarding. (In 
England no such definition is given.) 

LAUNDRIES do not come within the definitions of " factory " 
and " workshop," but are treated under the Act so far 
as sanitation is concerned, (a) as factories if mechanical 
power is used ; (6) as workshops if no mechanical power 
is used. For laundries connected with institutions, see 
F. & W. Act, 1907, page 315. 

BAKEHOUSES are either Factories or Workshops within the 
meaning of the Act, according as mechanical power is 
used or not. 

DRAIN. For definition of sewer and drain, see Part VI., 
P.H. (S.) A., page 61 ; B.P. (S.) A., 1903, page 127. 

HOUSES LET IN LODGINGS. For definition of, see P.H.(S.)A., 
sec. 72, page 49. 

BURGH, includes not only Eoyal Burgh, Parliamentary Burgh, 
Burgh incorporated by Act of Parliament, but also any 
Police Burgh within the meaning of the B.P. (S.) A. 
1892. A Burgh may therefore be defined as "any 
populous place, the boundaries of which hare been fixed 
under the general Police Acts, or any local Police Aci, 
or under the P.H. (S.) A. 1897." 

PARISH, means a parish quoad civilia, exclusive of any 
Burgh situated or partly situated therein. 

COUNTY, means a county exclusive of any Burgh, and does 
not include a County of a City. 

DISTRICT means the district of any L.A. 

FACTORY in the P.H. (S.) A., 1897, includes Workshop 
and Workplace (there is no distinction as in the F. 
and W.A., see page 303. 

B 



18 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



PART I. 

PART I. DEALS WITH THE AUTHORITIES FOR THE 
EXECUTION OF THE ACT. 

Sec. 5. The L.G.B. is the Central Authority. 

Its constitution is fixed by sec. 4 of the Local Government 
(Scotland) Act, 1894 (as on page 1). 

Sec. 6. Gives the L.G.B. power to inquire into the 
sanitary conditions of any district. To demand answers 
or returns to be made to them, and also to require the 
attendance before them of such persons as they think fit 
to call. 

Sec. 7. Gives the L.G.B. power to authorise one of its 
members to conduct any special inquiry in any part of 
Scotland, as if he were the whole Board, so far as adminis- 
tration of oaths and demanding of answers, etc., is concerned. 

Sec. 8. Gives the L.G.B. similar power with regard to 
the authorising of any person not being a member of the 
Board. 

Sec. 9. Gives the L.G.B. power to allow expenses of 
witnesses. 

Sec. 10. Entails penalties on persons giving false evi- 
dence, or refusing to obey the summons of the Board. 

Sec. 11. Gives the L.G.B. power to appoint clerks, etc. 

Sec. 12. (1) In Burghs the Town Council or Burgh Com- 
missioners shall be the Local Authority. (See def. 
of Burgh, page 17.) 

(2) In other Burghs (i.e., those mentioned in def. of 
Burgh, page 17), the Town Council or Board of Police 
shall be the L.A. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 19 

(Authorities) 

(3) In Districts where the county is divided into dis- 
tricts, the District Committee (D.C.) is the L.A. 
The D.C. are not given powers to raise money, but 
other L.A.s can do so, and D.C.s are subject to the 
general regulations made by the County Council. 

{4) In Counties where the county is not divided into dis- 
tricts, the C.C. is the L.A. There are eight counties 
not so divided : Caithness, Clackmannan, Elgin, 
Kinross, Nairn, Peebles, Selkirk, and Sutherland. 

Sec. 13. Provides for districts which may be in more 
than one county. 

Sec. 14. Enjoins that Local Authorities shall be bodies 
corporate. They may sue and may be sued as such, and 
they may authorise committees or officers or persons to 
serve notices, etc. 

Note. Such officers or persons may serve notices, make com- 
plaints, and take proceedings on behalf of the L. A. 

Sec. 15. Deals with the appointment of medical and 
other officers and their duties. _(For the duties of M.O.H., 
see pages 5-9, and of the S.I., see pages 10-14.) The M.O.H. 
must have the qualifications set forth in sec. 54 of the Local 
Government (Scotland) Act, 1889, viz. : 

He shall be a registered medical practitioner, and shall 
be registered on the Medical Register as a holder of a 
diploma in Sanitary Science, Public Health, or State 
Medicine, under Sec. 21 of the Medical Act, 1886. This 
latter qualification is not required in the case of the 
M.O.H. of a county, or district, or parish with a 
population of less than 30,000, but it is required in all 
Burghs by sec. 77 of the Burgh Police Act. (See page 86 ; 
for appointment of M.O.H., &c., see P.H.A., 1875, page 172 ; 
Housing, Town Planning, etc. Act, sec. 68, page 291.) 



20 PUBLIC 1IKALTH LA\V 

PART II. -SANITARY PROVISIONS. 

NUISANCES. (Sees. 16-28) 

Hitherto a nuisance was any condition or set of circum- 
stances proved to be injurious to health, but by the P.H. 
(S.) Act, 1897, it is only necessary to prove that it might 
be dangerous, or injurious to health ; in other words, it is- 
not necessary to prove actual injury to health. In connection 
with the following nuisances, the student should refer to the 
powers granted for making bye-laws by the B.P.(S.)A. r 
1892, sees. 316-324. 

Sec. 16. Gives a list of the Statutory Nuisances, 

as follows : 

(1) Any premises or part thereof. 

(See definition of premises, page 15; and note that ships; 
and houses are premises within the meaning of the Act.) 

(AVe also sees. 195 and 200, B.P.(S.)A., 1892, for houses- 
unfit for human habitation.) 

(2) Any street, pool, ditch, gutter, water-course, sink, cistern, 

water-closet, earth-closet, privy, urinal, cesspool, drain,. 
' or dung-pit. 

(With regard to cisterns, see sec. 263, B.P.(S.)A., 1892 ;. 
and sec. 222 for pollution of water-courses. ) 

(3) Any well or water supply. 

(4) Any stable, byre, or other building in which any animal 

or animals are kept in such manner and in such numbers. 

(5) Any accumulation or deposit of mineral refuse, offal, 

or manure (other than farmyard manure, or manure 
from byres or stables, or spent hops from breweries), 
within fifty yards of any public road, or any offensive 
matter contained in uncovered trucks on a railway or 
in canal boats. 

(See also sec. 122 B.P.(S.)A., 1892.) 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 21 

(Nuisances) 

(6) Any work, manufactory, trade, or business injurious to 
the health of the neighbourhood, or any collection of 
rags or bones. t 

JNote. That offensive trades fall under the foregoing category. 
This subsection therefore widens the power for dealing 
with trades, which, although licensed, can be summarily 
dealt with. (See also sec. 26 B.P.(S.)A., 1903, page 113.) 

{7) Any house or part thereof so overcrowded. 

Note. Overcrowding is also dealt with in the B.P.(S.)A., 1903, 
sees. 67, 68 (see page 119). 

(8) Any schoolhouse or factory. 

Note. This sub-section is rather confusing, as it is meant to 
reach factories not dealt with in the Factory and Workshop 
Acts. It really refers to domestic factories (see page 303. ) 

{9) Any fireplace or furnace of any manufactory which does 
, not, so far as practicable, consume its own smoke. 
(Observe that the word practicable is important.) 

(10) Any chimney (not being the chimney of a private 
dwelling-house) sending forth smoke in such quantities. 

Note. Powers for dealing with smoke nuisance are also granted 
by the Smoke Nuisance Abatement Act, and by the 
Burgh Police (S) Act, 1892, sec. 384 (page 111). In 
the English (1875) Act, "black " smoke is indicated. 

<(11) Any churchyard, cemetery, or place of sepulture so 
situated or overcrowded, or otherwise conducted as to 
be offensive or dangerous to health. 

Note. While the S.I. is the Inspector of Nuisances it should be 
noted that proceedings under sub-sections 6 and 8 can 
only be taken on (a) a medical certificate, or (b) a representa- 
tion by the Parish Council, or (c) a written requisition from 
ten ratepayers in the district. In the case of nuisances 
under sub-sees. 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11 these must be taken 
before a Sheriff (a Sheriff-Substitute's decision can be 
appealed against). All other nuisances may be taken before 
a Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice (see sec. 22, page 22). The 
methods of procedure for closing churchyards differ in 
Scotland and England. 



22 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 17. The L.A. must inspect their district for the 

detection of nuisances. 

Sec. 18. The L.A. or their officers have power of entry, 

any time between 9 A.M. and 6 P.JJ., for the purpose of 
inspection, if they have reasonable grounds for believing a 
nuisance exists in any premises. 

Note. They may cause the ground to be opened up for the 
purpose of testing drains, etc. If no nuisance is found to 
exist, the L. A. make good the ground and bear all expenses. 

If admission be refused, the officer can obtain an order 
from a Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice, and if that order be 
defied, the owner or occupier may be convicted and fined 5. 

The Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice may then grant a warrant 
for forcible entry, and for execution of the work in default. 
He may grant power to recover from the owner or occupier 
expenses incurred by the L.A. (See sec. 26, page 23). 

Sec. 19. Information that a nuisance exists may be 
given to the L.A. by anybody. It may even be by 
anonymous letter. 

Note. L.A. may then send intimation to author of nuisance. 

Sec. 20. If the L.A. are satisfied that a nuisance exists 
they serve a notice on the author of the nuisance requiring 
him to remove the same within a specified time. 

Note. If the author cannot be found, the notice is served upon 
the owner or occupier. In England the notice must specify 
the work to be executed, but in Scotland no specification of 
the nature of the work is necessary. 

Sec. 22. If the notice of the L.A. is not complied with 

they may appeal to a Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice by sum- 
mary petition. The S., M., or J. may decern for removal, 
remedy, or discontinuance of the nuisance. In the event 
of proceedings under sec. 16, sub-sees. 6 and 8, it is 
necessary that the complaint be on (a) a medical certificate ; 
or (&) a representation from the Parish Council, or (c) a 
written requisition from ten or more ratepayers. 

If the proceedings are under sub-sees. 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11, 
the case must be taken before a Sheriff. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 23 

(Nuisances) 

If the proceedings are under sub-sec. 11 (churchyards, etc.) 
it is not necessary to cite the author of the nuisance, but 
after the L.A. have sent an Intimation to the collector of 
churchyard dues, the application shall be proceeded with by 
the Sheriff (to whom alone it shall be made). The Sheriff 
then decides upon whom the Notice should be served. 

Sec. 23. Deals with the form of Interlocutor. 

Sec. 24. Imposes a penalty (not exceeding ten shillings 
per day during his failure to comply) on the author, if the 
decree of the Sheriff is not complied with. 

Sec. 25. Makes provision for cases where structural 
alterations are required for the remedy or removal of a 
nuisance. The S., M., or J. may order such alterations 
to be made. 

Sec. 26. In the case of non-compliance with or infringe- 
ment of any decree aforesaid, the S., M., or J. may 
grant a warrant to such persons as he may deem right, to 
enter the premises, and remove or remedy the nuisance, and 
to recover expenses incurred thereby. 

Note. If the author cannot be found, the expenses may be 
recovered from the owner or occupier. 

Sec. 27. Any matter or thing removed by the L.A. in 
default may be sold to defray expenses. The owner, how- 
ever, is entitled to any surplus. 

Note. Any article or thing of the value of 2 or upwards may 
not be thus sold. Notice of sale by public roup must be 
given for at least five days by handbills posted in the 
locality. 

Sec. 28. Foul ditches, etc., may be replaced by sewers 

whenever any water-course, ditch, gutter, or drain along the 
side of any street (see definition of street, page 15), is 
made use of for the conveyance of any sewage or other liquid 



24 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

matter from any premises (see definition of premises, page 15), 
and if it cannot be rendered free from foulness, the L.A. 
may replace it by laying down a sewer. 

Note. The owners of such premises served may be assessed for 
the cost of the works. They cannot recover expenses for 
any damage done, hut owners of other premises can recover 
expenses for any damage done to their property in the 
laying down of the sewer. 



WATER-CLOSETS (Sees. 29-31). 

In Scotland, by the P.H.(S.)A. 1897, the L.A. may 
make bye-laws under sec. 181. The L.A. may erect and 
maintain public w.-c.s, etc., but no mention is made of 
private owners providing adequate w.-c. accommodation for the 
tenants. By the Burgh Police (S.) Act, 1892, however, owners 
must provide adequate w.-c. accommodation. In this Act 
the structure and site of the w.-c. are subject to the approval 
of the L.A. (see page 103). The Factory and Workshop Act, 
in which is embodied the Sanitary Accommodation Order, 
applies also to Scotland. 

In England and Wales, by the Public Health Act, 1875, 
there is a penalty imposed on private individuals who do not 
provide adequate w.-c., etc., accommodation. The L.A. are 
empowered to erect public urinals, w.-c.s, etc. The Act also 
deals with sanitary conveniences in factories, but no mention 
is made regarding the making of bye-laws. 

By the P.H. (Amendment) Act, 1890, which is adoptive, 
the L.A. may make bye-laws (see pages 183, 184). 

The Sanitary Accommodation Order, under the Factory 
and Workshop Act, deals with the provision of adequate 
w. c. accommodation in factories. 

In Ireland the P.H.(I.)A., 1878, contains the same 
provisions as the P.H. A., 1875. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 25 

( Water-Closets) 

In London, by the P.H.(L.)A., 1891, the C.C. may erect 
public w.-c.s, etc., and private owners must provide w.-c. 
accommodation. Factories are dealt with in this Act as 
in the English Act, and are also under the Factory and 
Workshop Act. 

The C.C. must make bye-laws. 

Sec. 29. The L. A. may erect and maintain public w.-c.s, 
urinals, privies, and ashpits. 

The L.A. may require the owner or occupier of any school- 
house, factory, or building where persons are employed, to 
construct a sufficient number of w.-c.s or privies for the 
separate use of each sex. 

Note. The Factory and Workshop Act, 1901 applies to Factories 
(see page 316). Note also that no provision is made in the 
P.H.(S.)A., 1897, to compel private owners of property 
to supply adequate w. -c. accommodation for their tenants. 
There is, however, such a provision in the Burgh Police 
Act (see page 103). Note further that power to make bye- 
laws is given in sec. 181 (page 82). 

Sec. 30. A penalty of 5 is imposed on any person who 
Causes a w.-c., privy, urinal, drain, earth-closet, or ashpit to 
become a nuisance, or who wilfully destroys or damages 
the same. 

Sec. 31. In respect to water-closets, etc., used in common 
"by occupiers of two or more dwelling-houses, the following 
provisions shall have effect : 

(1) Any person who injures or improperly fouls any such 
convenience shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 10s. 

(2) If the L.A. find a w.-c. or its approaches in such a 
condition as to be a nuisance, each party having the use 
of the w.-c. shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 10s., 
and 5s. for every day of its continuance. 

Note. For Model Bye-laws regarding w.-c.s, etc., see Appendix, 
pages 383-5. 



26 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

OFFENSIVE TRADES (Sees. 32-37). 

The law with regard to these trades is more precise in 
London and Scotland than it is in England and Wales. 

In Scotland the sections (32-37) of the P.H.(S).A., 1897, 
dealing with offensive trades have been taken from the 
London Act, and it should be here noted that the Burgh 
Police Act, 1892 (sec. 316) deals with offensive trades (page 
109), sec. 281 deals with bye-laws, and sec. 284 with slaughter- 
houses. (See also B.P.(S.)A., sec. 26, page 113.) 

In England and Wales, by the P.H.A., 1875, sees. 
112-115 (page 161), no power is given to add to the list of 
offensive trades, which is smaller than the list in Scotland. 
This, however, has been remedied in the P.H.A.(A.)A., 1907, 
sec. 51 (page 196). 

In Ireland the law is the same as for England and Wales, 
but gut manufacturer is included in the list under the 
P.H.(I.)A., 1878. 

In London, by the P.H.(L.)A., 1891 (sees. 19-22), the 
list has been extended and the law made more stringent. 

Sec. 32. (1) Gives a list of offensive trades, and enjoins 
that no person may commence any such business without 
the consent of the L.A. under a penalty of 50, and 
a further penalty of 25 per day if continued after 
conviction. 

The list of offensive trades may be added to by the L.A. 

The list is as follows blood-boiler, bone-boiler, soap- 
boiler, tripe-boiler, tallow melter, tanner, gut or tripe 
cleaner, skinner or hide factor, knacker, slaughterer of 
horses or cattle, manure manufacturer. 

Note. The English list is Blood, Bone, Soap, and Tripe boiler, 
Fellmonger, and Tallow melter (page 161). 

Note further that in Scotland, when the L.A. declare any other 
business to be an offensive trade, the order must be confirmed 
by the L.G.B., and advertised in the Edinburgh Gazette. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 27 

(Offensive, Trades) 

(2) Deals with establishment of offensive trades. 

Note. Before issuing an order giving sanction, the L.A. must 
advertise for fourteen clear days the fact that application 
has been made, and setting forth the time and place where 
objections will be heard. Persons aggrieved by the decision 
of the L.A. may, in Burghs, appeal to the L.G.B. In 
Counties they must appeal first to the C.C. The L. A. may 
appeal to the L.G.B. against the decision of the C.C. 

(3) The L.A. may make bye-laws for regulating offensive 

trades as regards (a) structure of the premises ; (b) 
conduct of the business ; (c) mode of application for 
sanction. 

Note. The B.P.A., 1892, gives power to the L.A. to make bye- 
laws for reducing the noxious or injurious effects attending 
offensive trades (page 109). 

(4) The bye-laws may empower the Sheriff to deprive any 

offender of the right to carry on the business. 
Note. This by Summary Order and in addition to a fine of 25. 

(5) A fee for an order under sub-sec. (2) is chargeable to 

the applicant, and must not exceed 40s. 

(6) A business is held to be established : 

(a) If newly established. 

(b) If removed from one set of premises to another. 

(c) If re-commenced on the same premises after having 
7. been discontinued for twelve months, or longer. 

(d) If the premises have been enlarged without sanction of 
the L.A. 

Change of ownership or occupancy does not imply 
establishment anew, nor does reconstruction after 
burning, etc., without extension of area. 

Sec. 33. Deals with the licensing of slaughter-houses. 

(l) A slaughter-house must lie licensed under a penalty not 
exceeding 5. 

Note. The fact that cattle or horses have been taken into un- 
licensed premises is held as prima facie evidence that an 
offence has been committed. Note also that it is the pre- 



1*8 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

mises which must be licensed under this section (33), but 
being an offensive trade, sanction of the L. A. must in ad- 
dition be obtained before establishment of business. One 
advertisement, however, covers both, as an offensive trade 
requires a fourteen-day, and a slaughter-house a twenty-one 
day advertisement. In the Burgh Police Act, which deals 
(in sees. 278 to 287) with slaughter-houses, the premises 
and the person must also be licensed (see page 107). It is 
further enacted in the B. P. A. 1892 (sec. 284), that if the L. A. 
provide a public slaughter-house, no other places can be law- 
fully used (page 108). The licence of a slaiighter-house is 
renewable yearly, and a fee may be charged for it (see sub- 
sec. 2 under), but the fact of holding a licence does not 
preclude proceedings under sec. 16 of this Act if the business 
becomes a nuisance. 

<2) The licence holds good for one year, and a fee of 5s. 

may be charged for the licence or its renewal. 
Note. The L. A. may fix the date of expiry of licence, as 15th May. 

(3) The L.A. must advertise for at least twenty-one days 

before a new licence is granted. 
Note. It is not stipulated that renewals be advertised. 

(4) Unless notice of objection to the renewal of a licence is 

given to the applicant .seven days before licensing, the 
objection will not be entertained. If notice be not 
given, the L.A. may order that the applicant be notified, 
and defer hearing till a future day. 
Note. As to the service of notices, see, sec. 159 (page 79). 

(5) A licence is held to be renewed when it comes in 

immediate succession to a previous one. 

(6) The L.A. have power of entry. 

Note. Power is not given to officers of the L. A. An officer of the L. A. 
should therefore go armed with some power from the L.A. 

(7) Persons carrying on business before the passing of the 

Act and refused a licence, may appeal to the L.G.B. ; 
but in Counties, appeal to the L.G.B. is only allowed 
after the C.C. have been appealed to. 

y te. In England a registered slaughter-house is one used before 
the passing of the P.H.A. 18/5 (see page 210). 



\ 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 189Z. 29 1 

(Offensire Trades) 

Sec. 34. Empowers the L.A. of districts other than 
Burghs to provide public slaughter-houses. 

Note.Se.f sections 278-287 of the Burgh Police Act, 1892, which 
give Burghs power to provide public slaughter-houses, and 
enjoin that no other place can be lawfully used. 
S?e, Memorandum and Model Bve-laws for Slaughter-houses 
(page 208). 

Sec. 35. Pigstyes. The L.A. may make bye-laws regulat- 
ing (a) the site ; (b) the structure ; (c) mode of cleansing, etc. 

Note. That in the B.P.A. the keeping of pigs may be prohibited' 
sec. 316. This power is not given by P.H.(S.)A., 1897. 
And by sec. 381 B. P. A. , it is unlawful to keep swine near 

, any dwelling-place so as to be a nuisance. 

Sec. 36. Deals with the duties of the Local Authority 
regarding complaints to the Sheriff of nuisance arising 
from offensive trades. 

(1) Nuisance arising from an offensive trade entails a 
penalty not exceeding 50. The L.A. may apply 
to the Sheriff by summary petition : (a) upon a 
certificate of their M.O.H. ; or (b) upon a representa- 
tion by the Parish Council ; or (c) on a requisition in 
writing from ten ratepayers ; but if directed by the 
L.G.B. they must apply. 

Note. The sanction to establish the offensive trade is no bar to 
legal proceedings. As to proceedings, afe sec. 154 (page 79). 
-. The L. A. may take proceedings in the Court of Session 

instead of in the Sheriff Court (sub-sec. 3 as under). 

(2) The Court may suspend its final determination if the 

offender undertakes to stop the nuisance. 

(3) The L.A. may take the case to the Court of Session 

instead of to the Sheriff Court. 

(4) The L.A. may take proceedings against an offensive 

trade outwith their district. 

Note. The case is tried before the Sheriff of the district where 
the business is carried on. 



30 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



SCAVENGING AND CLEANSING (Sees. 37-42). 

The law with regard to -scavenging and cleansing is 
practically the same for the three countries, but Scotland 
lias the Burgh Police Acts in addition to the P.H.A. 

In Scotland the P.H.A. gives no power to the L.A. 
to scavenge and cleanse their district, but they may contribute 
to the cost thereof. The Burgh Police Act, 1892 (sec. 107, 
page 87) forces the L.A. to do so. 

In England, by the P.H.A., 1875 (sees. 42-50, page 145), 
the L.A. are empowered to cleanse and scavenge their district. 
If they do not themselves do it, they may regulate its per- 
formance by bye-laws (see page 145). By the P. H. (Amend- 
ment) A., 1890, which is adoptive, any Urban Authority may 
make bye-laws (page 184). 

In Ireland the law is as in England and Wales. 

In London the law is as in England and Wales. 

Sec. 37. (1) The removal of street and house refuse is 
held to "be a business carried on by the L.A., and pro- 
ceedings may be taken against the L.A. in event of 
nuisance arising therefrom. 

Note. There is no provision in the Act enabling the L.A. to 
undertake (as in England, page 145), the removal of refuse, 
although, by sec. 107 of the B.P.(S.)A., 1892. it is the 
duty of the L.A. to scavenge and cleanse their district. The 
L.A. may, however, contribute to the expense of such 
cleansing. Note that there is no definition in the Act of 
" House " and " Street " refuse. 

(2) Deals with the premises used for the treatment or 
disposal of refuse, and nuisance arising therefrom. 

(See sec. 146). 

Sec. 38. Empowers any interested party to appeal to 
the Sheriff against a resolution of a District Committe 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 31 

(Scavenging and Cleansing.) 

(D.C.), or County Council (C.C.). "With respect to the 
formation of a special scavenging district, under sec. 44 of 
the Local Government (Scotland) Act, 1894, where the 
boundaries of any Burgh are extended so as to include a 
special scavenging district, the Town Council or Burgh 
Commissioners supersede the D.C. or C.C., as the case may 
be, in the administration of the Burgh Police (Scotland) 
Act, and other powers. 

Note. Sec. 44 of the Local Government (Scotland) Act, 1894, 
empowers District Committees, or in counties not divided 
into districts, the County Council, on a requisition from 
(a) a Parish Council, or, (6) ten electors of a landward parish 
or landward part of a parish, to form special districts for 
scavenging and other purposes. The boundaries of the 
district are decided by the D.C., but if the proposed 
scavenging district is co-extensive with an already existing 
water supply or drainage district, it is subject to the review 
of the C. C. Aggrieved parties may appeal to the Sheriff 
who shall then decide. 

Sec. 39. Scavenging of highways, etc., within special 
districts. The D.C. or the C.C. forming a special scavenging 
district may either cleanse and scavenge the highways and 
the footpaths themselves, or contribute towards the cost of 
having it done. 

If any private street or footway within a special district 
be out of repair, the D.C. or the C.C. may order the owners 
of premises fronting, adjoining, or abutting on such street 
or footway, to carry out all necessary repairs within a stated 
time. The owners may, however, appeal to the Sheriff 
against the order of the D.C. or C.C. 

In the event of failure of the owners to carry out the 
work the D.C or C.C. may do it themselves, and recover 
expenses from the owners. 

Note. Sec. 16 of the B.P.(S.)A., 1903, forces owners of private 
property to make good the footway in front of the house. 
As also do the Model Bye-laws of the B.P.A. regarding 
cleansing and removal of refuse. 



32 PUBLIC HEALTH 1A\V 

Sec. 40. If any house or part thereof, or any bedding, 
clothing, etc., be in a filthy condition, the L.A. must serve a 
written notice upon the owner or occupier, calling upon him 
to cleanse, purify, or whitewash the same as the case may be. 
If the owner or occupier fail to comply, the L.A. may do- 
the work in default, and recover expenses from the offender. 
The offender is liable in a penalty not exceeding ten shillings 
for every day during which he continues to make default. 

Note. This is the same as sec. 46 of the P.H.A., 1875 (England), 
(see page 145). Sec. 118 of the B. P. (S. )A. , 1892, is similar. 

This sec. (40) is available in two conditions (i) where the 
filthy state is such as might be injurious to health ; (ii) 
where its removal would tend to check the spread of infectious 
disease, even although no infectious disease be in evidence. 

As to the service of notices see sec. 159, page 79. 

Notice is sent to owner in the case of whitewashing, and 
to the occupier in the case of cleansing and purifying of any 
article of bedding, etc. 

Sec. 41. If any water course or open ditch lies near to- 
or forms the boundary of any district, the L.A. may 
appeal to the Sheriff, who shall decide what is to be 
done, and which L.A. shall pay for any necessary works. 

Sec. 42. Periodical removal of manure from mews and 
other premises. Notice may be given by any L.A. (by public 
announcement or otherwise), for the periodical removal of 
manure or other refuse matter from mews, stables, or other 
premises except cattle courts. If this notice is disobeyed, the 
person responsible is liable without further notice to a 
penalty not exceeding twenty shillings for each day of 
continuance. 

This section applies only to " special scavenging districts." 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 33 

UNSOUND FOOD. (Sec. 43). 
(For Unsound Food Regulations, see page 350.) 

Sec. 43 Inspection of unsound food. (1) Any medical 
officer or S.I. or Y.S. approved for the purposes of this 
.section by the L.A. may, at all reasonable times, enter 
any premises or search any cart, vehicle, barrow, basket, 
hag, or parcel in order to inspect or examine, and may 
inspect and examine 

(a) Any animal, alive or dead, intended for the food of 
man, which is exposed for sale, or deposited in any place, oi- 
ls in course of transmission for the purpose of sale, or of 
preparation for sale ; and 

(6) Any article, whether solid or liquid, intended for the 
food of man, and sold or exposed for sale, or deposited in 
any place, or in the course of transmission for the purpose 
of sale, or of preparation for sale. 

The proof that the same was not exposed, or deposited, 
or in course of transmission for any purpose, or was not 
intended for the food of man, rests with the person 
charged : and if any such animal or article appears to 
such medical officer or S.I. or V.S. to be diseased or 
unsound, or unfit for the food of man, he may seize 
and carry it away, in order to have the same dealt with 
summarily by a Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice. 

In the case of a living animal, the M.O.H. or S.I. (if 
not qualified as a V.S.) must be accompanied by a quali- 
fied V.S. approved as aforesaid. 

The police force of each police area shall have power 
1o search carts, vehicles, sacks, etc., and to assist gene- 
rally in executing and enforcing this section. 

(2) If it appears to a S., M., or J. that any animal or article 
which has been seized, or is liable to be seized, under 
this section is diseased or unsound, he shall condemn 
the same, and order it to be destroyed or so disposed of 
as to prevent it from being exposed for sale or used for 
the food of man. 



34 PUBLIC HEALTH JAW 

The person to whom the same belongs shall be liable 
to a penalty not exceeding 50 for every animal or 
article, or if the article consists of fruit, vegetables, corn, 
bread, or flour, for every parcel thereof so condemned, 
unless he proves that he and the person acting on his 
behalf (if any) did not know, and could not with rea- 
sonable care have known, that it was in such a condi- 
tion. Where the proceedings are before a Sheriff, at 
the discretion of the Court, if it finds that the person 
has knowingly and wilfnlly committed the offence, he 
shall be liable, without the infliction of a penalty, to 
imprisonment for a term of not more than three months, 
with or without hard labour, and also to pay all ex- 
penses caused by the seizure, detention, or disposal 
thereof. If the person charged proves, within a 
reasonable time prior to the seizure of an animal or 
part thereof, that such meat was examined by a V.S. 
on the premises where the animal was slaughtered, and 
passed by the V.S. who shall have granted a certi- 
ficate, he shall be exempt from a penalty under this 
section. 

(3) Gives power to a L.A. or combination of L.A.s to fix a 
place or places where, and appoint a time or times 
when, examinations of living or dead animals may be 
carried out. They may also appoint a V.S. to carry out 
such examinations. Such V.S., after passing an animal 
or part, grants a certificate. 

If a carcase is condemned in whole or in part it shall 
"be destroyed at the expense of the L.A. The owners 
receive the net price of the residual products, less the 
cost of condemnation and destruction. 

Every carcase submitted for examination must 
include the thoracic and abdominal viscera. 



35 

(Unsmind Food) 

(4) If the person charged shows conclusively that the 

animal, etc., at the time it was sold or consigned to him 
was unfit for food, the consignor is liable to be arraigned 
and fined in a Court in the district where the seizure 
was made. If he can prove that at the time of sale or 
consignment he was ignorant of the condition of the 
animal or article, he is exempt. 

(5) Certificates granted by the V.S. (under sub-sees. 2 and 3). 

After the V.S. has granted certificate, he sends a copy 
to the Chief Constable of the district where the exami- 
nation of the animal or carcase was made. The person 
selling the animal or carcase sends the certificate itself 
forthwith after the sale, and not more than seven days 
after it was issued, to the Chief Constable of the district 
where the sale took place. 

Contravention by V.S. or seller entails a fine not 
exceeding 20. 

(6) On second conviction, within twelve months, of any person 

for any offence under this section, the S., M., or J., if he 
finds that the offence has been wilful on both occasions, 
may order a notice of the facts to be affixed to the 
offender's premises for a period not exceeding twenty- 
four days. 

Anyone defacing, concealing, or removing the notice, 
or hindering the affixing thereof, is liable to a penalty 
not exceeding 5. 

The convicted person pays all expenses connected with 
the notice. 

Note. The affixing of the notice is in addition to any penalty or 
imprisonment which may have followed on the second 
conviction. 

<(7) If the person convicted be the occupier of a licensed 
slaughter-house, his licence may be cancelled. 

Note. For the licensing of slaxighter-houses, see sec. 33. 



36 

(8) When any person is charged before a Sheriff with 

obstructing the M.O.H., S.I., or V.S., with the object 
of preventing the discovery of any offence, or if the 
accused has, within a year, been convicted of a similar 
offence, he may be imprisoned for one month in lieu of 
being fined. 

(9) Empowers any S., M., or J., acting in the district to 

adjudicate, whether or not he condemned or ordered the 
- destruction of the animal or article seized. 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE. (Sees. 44-51), and 
DISINFECTION. (Sees. 52-72). 

Sec. 44. Notification of infectious disease. From and 

after the commencement of this Act the provisions of the 
Infectious Disease (Notification) Act, 1889, shall extend 
to and take effect in every district in Scotland, whether 
it has or has not been adopted before the said com- 
mencement. 

Note. The Notification Act provides that it shall only apply in 
districts where it has been adopted, but this section provides 
that it shall now take effect in those districts where it had 
not been adopted. 

Sec. 45. The M.O.H. has power to enter and inspect 
premises where infectious disease is supposed to exist or 
has recently existed. He may examine any person found on 
such premises. If admission, inspection, or examination is 
refused, a S., M., or J. may grant a warrant authorising such 
entry, inspection, and examination. Obstruction of the 
M.O.H. on showing such warrant entails a penalty of forty 
shillings for every such offence. 

Note. 'There is no penalty for obstruction before the warrant has. 
been granted. 

This section applies to all infectious diseases, and not 
"merely to those which are notifiable. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 37 

(Infectious Disease) 

Sec 46. (1) Every L.A, may, and when required by the 
L.G.B., shall provide means for disinfection as follows: 

(a) Premises and apparatus for disinfection and destruc- 
tion of infected goods. 

(b) Vessels for removing the same. 

(c) They may disinfect any premises or any article free 
of charge. 

^2.) Two or more L.A.s may combine for the purpose of this 
section, or one L.A. may obtain, and others contract to 
have the use of the apparatus. 

Sec. 47. (1) The L.A. may cleanse and disinfect any pre- 
mises if the M.O.H. or other qualified medical practi- 
tioner consider that it would tend to check infectious dis- 
ease. The L.A. may notify the occupier or owner that 
they will disinfect, etc., unless he does so to the satisfaction 
of the M.O.H. or a medical practitioner. 
<(2.) The L.A. may cleanse and disinfect if the owner or 
occupier (a) pays no heed to the notice, (&) neglects to 
cleanse, etc., after promising to do so, (c) consents to 
allow the L.A. to do so. 

(3,) Gives power of entry for disinfection. 

(4.) A S., M., or J. may grant a warrant for the removal of 
any or all of the occupants from any house or part of a 
house, if such be necessary for disinfection, or for pre- 
vention of the spread of disease. The warrant may 
impose conditions as to the time closure, etc., is to last. 
No warrant is necessary if the persons consent. The 
L, A, provides shelter for the persons so removed. 
Note. This involves the provision of a Reception House. 

Empowers the L.A. to compensate for unnecessary 
damage, and for articles destroyed. Persons aggrieved 
may recover expenses summarily. The word " house," 
includes tents, vans, and ships. 



38 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 48. (1) Disinfection of bedding, etc. The L. A. may, 

by notice, require the owner of infected bedding, cloth- 
ing, etc., to deliver it to their officers for disinfection. 
Non-compliance entails a fine of 10. 

(2) The L.A. return disinfected clothing, etc., free of charge, 
and compensate for unnecessary damage. The owner 
may recover compensation summarily. 

Sec. 49, Persons engaged in washing or mangling clothes 
must furnish. the L.A. with a list of customers for the 

past six weeks, if the M.O.H. grants a certificate that it 
is desirable to do so. A fee of 6d. for each list, and for 
every 25 names. The maximum fee is 3s. Penalty for 
refusal, 5. 

Sec. 50. (1) A penalty of 5 is imposed upon anyone who 
exposes infected articles, or who casts, or allows such 
articles to be cast into an ashpit. A fine of 40s. is 
imposed for every day the o Hence continues. 

(2) Officers of the L.A. must serve notice of this section 
\ipon occupiers of infected houses. 

Note. That the L.A. must serve this notice whenever a case of 
infectious disease comes to their notice. 

Sec. 51. (1) Penalty on letting houses in which infected 
persons have been lodging. Anyone who lets an in- 
fected house without previously disinfecting it and its 
contents, is liable to a fine of 20. 

(2) This section shall include inn and hotel-keepers. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 39 



DISINFECTION. 

Sec. 52. Imposes a fine of 20 upon any person who lets 

or shows a house for the purpose of letting it, and who 
knowingly returns a false answer when questioned regarding 
the existence in it of infectious disease during the previous 
six weeks. 

Note. If a case is heard before a Sheriff, the guilty person is 
liable to imprisonment (with or without hard labour) for a 
period not exceeding one month. 

Sec. 53. (1) Any person ceasing to occupy a house in which 
there has been, within six weeks, a case of infectious disease, 
and who 

(a) Fails to have the house and its contents disinfected 

to the satisfaction of the M.O.H. ; 

(b) Fails to notify the new owner or occupier ; 

(c) Denies that the house is infected ; 

(d) Knowingly makes a false answer, is liable to a 

penalty not exceeding '20. 

(2) Notice to the above effect must be served on the 
occupier. 

Note. That notice must be served also with regard to "Infected 
matter," xe.e. sec. 50. sub-sec. 2. 
For service of notice see sec. 159. 

Sec. 54. (1). Any person suffering from infectious disease 
who does not consent to removal to hospital, may be 

removed by order of a S., M., or J., 011 the certificate of a 
qualified medical practitioner, provided always that the 
patient 

(a) Is in a tent, van, or ship ; 

(b) Is without proper lodging or accommodation ; 

(c) Is in a place where isolation is impossible. 



40 PUHLK; HEALTH LAW 

(2) The order of the 8., M.. or J., may be addressed to any 
constable or officer, or any other person. 

JVb<. If removal of the patient is impossible, the other inmates 
may be removed and detained as long as necessary under 
sec. 47. 

No order is required for the removal of an infectious 
case from a common lodging-house (see sec. 97. ) 

Note. As cases under this section are emergency cases, and it is 
the L. A. who have to apply to the S. , M., or J. for a 
warrant for removal, it is advisable, in order to obviate the 
necessity of a meeting of the L.A. before each such case 
can be lemoved, that the L.A. should authorise an officer 
to act on their behalf. This power they have conferred 
on them by sec. 14 of this Act (page 19). Obstruction of 
an officer in the discharge of his duty entails a penalty 
not exceeding 10. This is a heavier penalty than the 
general provisions of sec. 163. 

Sec. 55. A person having no proper lodging or accom- 
modation on leaving an infectious disease hospital, may 
be provided for as follows: The L.A. make application 
to a S., M., or J. who, on being satisfied that the person 
has no proper place to live in where he can take proper 
precautions against the spread of disease, may order detention 
in the hospital at the cost of the L.A. for a fixed time, 
which may be prolonged if necessary. 

Xote. There is no penalty mentioned in this section for 
violation: but sec. 163 (page 80) provides for such, and 
that the penalty shall not exceed 5. 

Sec. 56. Deals with the exposure of infected persons or 
things. 

(1) A penalty not exceeding 5 is imposed on any person 
who wilfully or without proper precautions 
(a) Exposes himself in public while infectious; 
(&) Exposes any other infectious person in public ; 
(c) Exposes to a wake, or wakes, in any house, room, 
or place over which he has control, the body of 
any person who has died of any infectious disease ; 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 41 

(Disinfection) 

(d) Exposes, gives, lends, sells, pawns, removes, or 
transmits any infected article, or who washes or 
exposes to washing any such article in a public 
wash-house, or a wash-house used in common by 
other families. 

^2) Provides that proceedings under this section shall not 
be taken against persons transmitting, with proper pre- 
cautions, any bedding, clothing, or other articles for the 
purpose of having the same disinfected. 

Note. Sees. 46, 47, and 48 deal with facilities for disinfection. 
Sees. 62, 63, and 69 deal also with bodies of persons who 
have died of infections disease. 

Sec. 57. Imposes a penalty of 40s. upon anyone sending a 
cMld to school, who has within the previous three months 
suffered from an infectious disease, without a certificate 
from the medical officer (which he shall grant free of charge), 
or from a qualified medical practitioner. Any teacher 
admitting to school an uncertified child is liable to the 
same penalty. The certificate must state (under this Act) 
" that such child has become free from disease and infection, 
and that the house and everything therein exposed to 
infection has been disinfected to the satisfaction of such 
medical practitioner." 

Note. Sec. 1 of the P.H. (S. )A.A., 1907, amends this section in 
so far as the words in " inverted commas " are concerned, 

and reads "That proper precautions against 
spreading disease or infection have been taken, 
and that the child may attend school without 
risk of infecting others." 

Sec. 58. Prohibits infected persons from carrying on 
business. No person suffering from an infectious disease, or 
who is living in an infected house, " shall milk any animal, 
or pick fruit, or shall engage in any occupation connected 
Avith food, or carry on any trade or business in siich a 



42 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

manner as to be likely to spread such disease;" and any 
person who, knowing himself to he suffering from any in- 
fectious disease, contravenes this section, shall be liable to 
a penalty not exceeding 10. 

Note. That it is only a person nuffi'.ruiy from an infectious 
disease who is liable to a tine. 

further, if tuberculosis (as it may now be) is notifiable, 
that this section would prohibit tuberculous patients 
from carrying on any trade or business connected with food. 
To obviate these discrepancies, section "58" has been 
amended in the P. H. S. (A. )A. , ]907, by sec. 1, and now 
reads as follows : 

No person suffering from an infectious disease, or who is 
living in an infected house, shall, without proper precau- 
tions against spreading such, disease or infection, milk any 
animal, or pick fruit, or shall engage in any occuj>ation con- 
nected with food, or carry on any trade or business in such 
a manner as to be likely to spread such disease or infection, 
and any person who knowingly contravenes this section 
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 10. 

Note. Art. 9 of the Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops Order of 
1885 contains similar provisions regarding persons em- 
ployed in the milk trade (see Appendix). 

Sec. 59. Prohibits the conveyance of infected persons 
in a public vehicle. It is not lawful for the owner of any 
public conveyance to convey therein, or for any other person 
knowingly to place therein, a person suffering from any 
infectious disease. 

Any person contravening this section is liable to a penalty 
not exceeding 10. 

Mote. Here again, in order to get over the difficulty regarding 
persons Buttering from tuberculosis (where it is notifiable), 
the P.H.S.(A.)A. 1907, sec. (1) amends sec. 59, and inserts, 

unless proper precautions have been taken to 
prevent the spread of infection. 

The owner is liable to a penalty of 10 if he knowingly 
contravenes this section : but if he becomes aware of his 
having carried an infectious patient, he must at once notify 
the L.A. , and have the conveyance disinfected, in default 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 4-'> 

(Lifecteil Milk Xi 



of which he is liable to a penalty of f>. which is recover- 
able from the infected person by summary petition. 

The L. A. carry out disinfection free of charge. 

Patients suffering from infectious disease may be carried 
by rail or boat, provided they are conveyed within an 
ambulance waggon, or other vehicle approved by the L. A. 

There is no definition of ' Public Conveyance." 

Sec. 60. Deals with inspection of dairies, and power to 
prohibit the supply of milk. 

(1) If the M.O.H. suspects that the milk from any dairy is. 

likely to be the cause of infectious disease, he tnhaft 
visit, inspect, and examine the dairy, the persons 
employed therein, and their homes, and if accompanied 
by a V.S. shall examine the cattle. A report is then 
sent to the L.A. or their special committee (appointed 
under sec. 14). 

Xote. Under the Dairies. Cowsheds, and Milkshops Orders, no 
power is given to prohibit the supply of milk. 

(2) Deals with dairies out with the district of the L.A. sus- 

pected of causing disease within the district. 

Note. If such be the case, the M.O. H. notifies the L.A. of the 
suspected district, who in turn notify their own M.O.H. 
to visit and examine the dairy at a certain time. Th>- 
suspected L.A. inform the complaining M.O.H. as to the 
time of the examination, in order that he may be present. 
The M.O.H. of the suspected district reports to his own 
L.A. 

In England, the M.O.H. can. if provided with warrant. 
visit dairies outwith his own district. 

(3) The L.A. of the suspected district decide whether or 

not the milk supply from the dairy is to be stopped. 

(4) No appeal may be made to the C.C. against any pro- 

ceedings or order of the L.A. of a district other than a 
Burgh. 



44 I'UHLir HEALTH LAW 

(5) If the L.A. prohibit the supply of milk from any dairy 

in their district, they must notify the L.A. of any other 
district to which such milk is supplied. 

(6) The L.A. can withdraw the prohibition order when 

satisfied that the milk is no longer likely to spread 
infection. 

(7) Any L.A. or dairyman aggrieved may appeal to the 

Sheriff of the district in which the dairy is situated. 
The decision of the Sheriff is final. 

(8) Anyone refusing to permit examination by the M.O.H. 

or V.S., or who sells milk after an order has been 
made, is liable to a penalty not exceeding 10. 

(9) All proceedings are to be taken before the Sheriff of the 

district in which the dairy is situated. 

yotf. A dairyman who is under contract to sell milk is not 
liable in damages for breach of contract, if the milk 
supply is stopped under this section. 

(10) Nothing in this section shall interfere with the opera- 
tion of the Contagious Diseases (Animals) Acts, 1878- 
1894 (page 322), or the Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milk- 
shops Orders (see Appendix). 

Sec. 61. Forces dairymen to supply lists of customers 
and invoices. 

(1) If the M.O.H. or qualified medical practitioner considers 

an outbreak or spread of infectious disease is due to the 
milk of a dairy, the L.A. may order the dairyman to 
supply them with a list of the names and addresses of 
customers. Fee 6d. for every twenty-five names. 

(2) The L.A. may demand the names of persons supplying 

the dairyman with milk, and may order him to show 
books, invoices, etc. Penalty for non-compliance with 
this section, 5, and a daily penalty of 40s. for its 
-continuance. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1SK7 



Sec. 62. Prohibits the retention of dead bodies in certain 
cases. The body of a person dead of infectious disease 
shall not be retained for more than 48 hours in any room 
used as a dwelling-place, sleeping-place, or workroom, unless 
with the written sanction of the M.O.H. or a qualified 
medical practitioner. Penalty for contravention, 5. 

Xotc. This is similar to the provisions of sec, 8 of the Infectious 
Disease Prevention Act, 1890 (page 179). 
The body may be removed to a mortuary under sec. 69. 

Sec. 63. Body of person dying of infectious disease in 
any hospital, etc., to be removed only for burial. 

(1) If any legally qualified medical practitioner or M.O.H. 

certifies that in his opinion it would be dangerous to 
remove such a corpse, except for direct burial, it shall 
be unlawful for any person to remove the body except 
for that purpose. 

(2) Penalty for disobedience, not exceeding 10. 

(3) A body may, however, be removed to a mortuary. 

Sec. 64. Deals with public conveyances, if used for 
carrying corpses of persons dead of infectious disease. 
A fine of 5 is imposed upon anyone hiring a public 
conveyance, other than a hearse, for the conveyance of 
an infected corpse. The owner or driver of the convey- 
ance is liable to the same fine, if, as soon as he knows 
that this has been done, he does not endeavour to prevent 
spread of infection, or fails to intimate to the L.A. 

Sec. 65. The L.A. may make bye-laws to ensure 
cleanliness and prevent overcrowding of public conveyances. 



-46 PUBLIC HEALTH LA\V 



ISOLATION HOSPITALS. 

The provisions of the various Acts relating to the building 
of hospitals, or otherwise providing for persons sick with 
infectious diseases are the same for the three countries. 

Scotland. P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sees. 66 and 67. 

Scotland and London provide for convalescents and 
'" contacts." In England and Wales provision is also made 
for convalescents and "contacts." Ireland provides for 
convalescents, hut not "contacts." 

England and Wales P.H.A., 1875, sees. 131-133. 

P.H.A.(A.)A., 1907, sec. 61. 
Isolation Hospital Acts, 1893-1901 (page 213). 
Ireland. P.H.(I.)A., 1878, sees. 155, 156. 
London. P.H.(L.)A., 1891, sees. 75-81. 

Sec. 66. Gives the L.A. power to provide hospitals, 
reception-houses, etc. 

(1) Any L.A. may, or, if ordered by the L.G.B., must pro- 
vide an infectious disease hospital, houses for con- 
valescents, and houses for the reception of " contacts," 
with the consent of the L.G.B., as follows : 

(a) They may themselves build such houses or hospitals 

(b) They may contract for the use of any hospital or house 
or part thereof ; J 

(c) They may enter into an agreement for the whole 
part, for a fixed sum ; 

(d) They may, in place of, or in addition to, such hospitals 
or houses, provide nurses, medicine, and medica 
attendants. 

<(2) Two or more L.A.s may, or if required by the L.G.B., 
must combine to provide for hospital accommodation or 
otherwise as above. 

Note. Terms as agreed upon, and failing agreement, to be fixed 
by the L.G.B. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 47 

(Isolation Hospitals) 

(3) All contracts, sites, plans, etc., of the hospital must be 
submitted for the approval of the L.G.B. 

^4) The L.A., with the consent of the L.G.B., may provide 
portable hospitals. 

Resume For power to remove infectious cases to hospital, see, sees. 
54 and 55. 

For similar powers regarding cases in ships, see sec. 180. 

For similar powers regarding common lodging-houses, see 
sees. 96 and 97. 

If a dangerous infectious disease threatens, or breaks out, 
the L.G.B. are empowered by sec. 79 to make regulations 
for (inter alia) the provision of accommodation. 

For the compulsory acquisition of land for the purpose of 
building a hospital, see sees. 144 and 145. 

For power to borrow money, see sec. 141. 

For removal of " contacts," see sec. 47. 

Sec. 67. The L.A. or combined L.A.s may provide 
carriages suitable for the conveyance of infected persons 
free of charge. 



MORTUARIES. 

The law with regard to mortuaries is practically the same 
for the three countries. Each L.A. has power to make 
Tsye-laws. 

Sec. 68. The L.A. may provide and fit up mortuaries 

arid may make bye-laws with respect to the management and 
charges for the use of the same. 

-Vote. The L.A. may acquire land for the purpose under sees. 
144 and 145. 

The L.A. may borrow money for the purpose, sec. 141. 

Several L.A.s may combine for the purpose, sec. 71. 

Removal of bodies to a mortuary is dealt with in sees. 
63 and 69. 



48 riJBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 69. (1) Gives power to a S., M., or J. to order 
removal of a dead body to a mortuary. 

A Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice, on the certificate of 
a qualified medical practitioner, may order removal to a 
mortuary, at the cost of the L.A., and may order burial 
within a fixed time of 

(a) A body dead of infectious disease and kept in a living 
or sleeping room ; 

(b) A body dead of infectious disease and kept in any other 
room over forty-eight hours without the written sanction 
of a qualified medical practitioner ; 

(c) Any dead body kept anywhere so as to be dangerous to- 
the health of others ; 

(d) Any body found and unclaimed. 

A Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice may order immediate 
burial without removal to the mortuary. 

(2) If friends or relations do not carry out burial within a 

fixed time, the L.A. may do it and recover expenses. 

(3) Forbids the carriage of infected corpses in public con- 

veyances not reserved for the purpose, unless on the 
certificate of a qualified medical practitioner to the effect 
that it would be safe. Infringement by the undertaker 
or any other person entails a penalty not exceeding 5. 

(4) Penalty for obstmcting the execution of the directions of 

a S., M., or J., 5. 

Sec. 70. Gives the L.A. power to provide P.M. rooms. 

(1) The L.A. may provide P.M. rooms, but not at a poor- 

house, and may make regulations regarding management. 
Note. Regulations are not the same as bye-laws (see sees. 183-188). 

(2) A P.M. room may be connected with the mortuary, but 

no P.M.s are to he done in the mortuary itself. 

Sec. 71. Gives L.A.s power to unite to provide P.M. 
rooms. 

Two or more L.A.s may, with the approval of the L.G.B., 
combine to provide a P.M. room, or may contract for the 
use of another P.M. room. 



1'UKLIC HEALTH (s('OTLANI)) ACT, 1897 49 

HOUSES LET IX LODGIXGS. 

Houses let in lodgings are controlled almost entirely by 
l>ye-la\vs (for which, see below). The Acts in the three 
countries merely give the L.A. power to make and enforce 
bye-laws. There is no definition of houses let in lodgings 
in any save the Scotch Act, 1897, sec. 72. 

Sec. 72. Gives the L.A. power to make bye-laws. 
(1) Every L.A. may, or, if required by the L.G.B., sliall 
make bye-laws, and enforce them in the whole or part 
of their district, in regard to houses let in lodgings, 
with respect to the following matters : 

(a) For fixing the number of persons who may occupy a 
house, or part of a house, which is let in lodgings, 
or occupied by members of more than one family. 

(6) For registration of such houses. 

(c) For inspection of such houses. 

(d) For enforcing sufficient privy or \v. -c. accommodation, 
and other appliances and means of cleanliness, in pro- 
portion to the number of lodgers or occupiers, drainage 
for such houses, and for promoting cleanliness and venti- 
lation in such houses, and for the cleansing and 
ventilation of common passages and staircases. 

(e) For cleansing and limewashing of the premises at stated 
times. 

(f) For the giving of notices, and the taking of precautions 
in case of any infectious disease. 

(2) This section shall not apply to common lodging-houses 
hut shall apply to houses let in lodgings or "farmed 
out houses," that is to say, to houses of one or two 
apartments taken on lease by any person, and let or 
rented to several occupiers for limited periods as fur- 
nished apartments, as also to all boarding-houses for 
seamen and emigrants, irrespective of the charge made 
for board and lodging therein. 

Note. Boarding-houses for seamen and emigrants are included 
within the meaning of "common lodging-house," (-see def. 
page 16). It would appear, therefore, that such houses 
are subject not only to the bye-laws under this section, 
but also to the provisions controlling common lodging- 
houses. 

D 



50 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

TENTS AND VANS. 

Tents and Vans are controlled almost entirely by bye- 
laws (see below). The power to make bye-laws is given in 
the various Acts, e.g. 

Scotland. P.H.(S.)A. 1897, sec. 73. 

England and Wales. Housing of the Working Classes 
Act, 1885, sec. 9, and P.M. A., 1875, sec. 314. 

Ireland. Housing of the Working Classes Act, 1885, 
sec. 9. 

London. P.H.(L.)A., 1891, sec. 95. 

Sec. 73. (i) A tent, van, shed, or similar structure used 
for human habitation, which is in such a state as to be 
a nuisance or injurious or dangerous to health, or is so 
overcrowded as to be injurious or dangerous to the 
health of the inmates, shall be a nuisance liable to be 
dealt with summarily under this Act. 

(2) Empowers the L.A. to make bye-laws for : 

(a) Promoting cleanliness in, and the habitable condition 

of tents, vans, etc. 
(6) Preventing the spread of any infectious disease by the 

occupiers. 
(c) Prevention of nuisance in connection with tents, vans, 

etc. 

(3) Gives the M.O.H. and S.I. power of entry if they have 

reason to believe : 

(a) That there is overcrowding, or any contravention of 
bye-laws. 

(b) That infections disease exists or has existed therein. 
The M.O.H. is empowered to examine any person 
occupying the tent, etc. 

(4) Tents, vans, or other structures erected or used by any 

portion of His Majesty's naval or military forces, are 

exempt. 

Note. By sec. 194 (page 85) possessions of His Majesty are 
exempted in general from the provisions of the P. H.A. 
Daytime by this Act means any time between 9 A.M. and 
6 P.M., but under the Housing of the AVorking Classes 
Act. 1885, daytime is from 6 A.M. till 9 V.M. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 51 



UNDERGROUND DWELLINGS. 

In England and Wales and Ireland, the law with regard 
to cellar dwellings differs slightly from that in Scotland and 
London. 

In Scotland, P.H. (S.) A. 1897, sec. 74, states that 
Cellar dwellings must conform to certain regulations before 
being let or occupied. By sec. 17 of the Housing, Town 
Planning, etc., Act, 1909, a room, the floor of which is more 
than three feet below the level of the adjoining street, is 
held to be un6t for human habitation (see page 285). 

In England and Wales, P.H.A. 1875, sec. 71 (page 152), 
the occupation of cellar dwellings, built or rebuilt since the 
passing of the Act, is prohibited, as well as such as are not 
lawfully let or occupied at the time of the passing of the 
Act. Sec. 72 details the conditions which have to be com- 
plied with before a cellar can be lawfully let or occupied. 

Note. That the building of such dwellings is prohibited. 

In Ireland, the law is similar P.H.(I.)A., 1878, sees. 82 
and 83. 

Sec. 74. A cellar or vault, let as a dwelling-place, by 

itself or conjoined witli another apartment, unless it has one 
external side containing a window or other opening entirely 
above ground, must fulfil the following requirements : 

(a) Its height in every part from floor to ceiling must, if 
built before 1st January 1898, be 8 feet ; if built there- 
after, 9 feet. 

(6) At least 3 feet of its height must be above ground level. 

(c) It must have an open area 2J feet wide from the level 
of its floor up to ground level. 

(d) It must have an ashpit, and the use of a w. -c., earth- 
closet, or privy. 

(e) It must have a glazed window 9 square feet in area, 
opening half its extent. 

{/) It must have a fireplace with a chimney or flue. 



52 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(g) A back cellar let along with a front cellar must have 
a ventilating flue, unless built before January 1898. 

(h) It must be effectually drained ; drains to be at least one- 
foot below the level of the floor. 

-The foregoing measurements and restrictions differ in sec. 
71 of the English Act. The definition of "occupied," or 
what amounts to occupation, is given in sec. 74 of the 
English Act (page 153), which provides that any cellar in 
which any person passes the night shall be deemed to be 
occupied as a dwelling. 

It is the owner, and not the occupier, who is guilty of 
offence. 



Sec. 75. Entails a penalty for letting underground 
dwellings which do not conform to the provisions of this 
Act. 

Note. The penalty shall not exceed twenty shillings for every day 
during which such cellar or vault is occupied after conviction. 
It seems that there is no penalty before conviction, but 
sec. 163 of this Act may cover such offence. 

Sec. 76. Provides against cases in which two convictions, 
have occurred within three months. 

. In such cases the Sheriff may order closure for a specified 
time, or empower the L. A. to permanently close such 
dwellings. 



VACCINATION. 

The law with regard to vaccination has undergone 
several changes in the various Acts which have been passed, 
viz. 

Scotland. Vaccination Acts, 1863-1907 (page 130), and 

P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sec. 147. 

Note. There are no public vaccinators in Scotland. The Poor 
Law medical officers vaccinate paupers free of charge as 
well as defaulters. 

England. The Vaccination Acts, 1867, 1871, 1 898-1 907,. 
(see page 211). 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 5/5 

( Vaccination) 

Ireland. -Vaccination Act, 1863, and P.H.(I.)A. sec. 
147. 

[It is an unfortunate fact that the M.O.H. has little 
to do with the administration of these Acts, nor has the 
Local Authority, the matter being left in the hands of the 
Poor Law Guardians, who appoint their own officers.] 

Sec. 77. The L.A. may defray the cost of vaccinating 
or re-vaccinating such persons as to them may seem 
expedient. 

Notf. The 1867 Act only gave power to defray the cost of vaccinat- 
ing, and did not mention re-vaccinating. The importance 
of re-vaccination is explained in a Memorandum issued by 
the L.G. 13. (England) in March 1888, which states as 
follows : 

" The protection against small-pox, conferred by vaccina- 
tion in infancy, becomes diminished as age advances, and 
the protection against attack appears to more rapidly 
diminish than the protection against death by the disease. 
Even before puberty a portion of the original protection is 
lost, and this is particularly the case when the vaccination 
in infancy has been incomplete, having produced one vesicle 
instead of several, or small vesicles instead of large. Before 
vaccination was discovered small-pox was, for the most part, 
a disease of children. Among the unvaccinated members 
of a community it is so to this day. But among vaccinated 
people, owing to the protection of the children, and the 
decline of this protection as life advances, such small-pox 
as now prevails is principally seen in adolescents and 
adults." 



PREVENTION OF EPIDEMIC DISEASE. 

The three countries, although adopting the same means 
to combat .the occurrence or spread of epidemic disease, do 
so under their different Public Health Acts, as follows : 

Scotland. P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sees. 78-88. 



54 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

England and Wales. P.M. A., 1875, sees. 130, and 134- 
140 (page 165). Also P.H.A.s, 1896-1904 (page 297). 

Ireland. P.H.(I.)A., 1878, sees. 149-154. 

London. P.H.(L.) A., 1891, sees. 82-87. 

The L.G.B. are empowered by the above Acts to make 
regulations with regard to dangerous infectious disease. 
This they have done in the Cholera, Plague, and Yellow 
Fever Regulations (see page 256). 

As to Port Local Authorities, see Part X., sees. 172-176, 
of this Act. 

Sec. 78. Gives the L.G.B. power to make regulations. 

They may make, alter, and revoke such regulations as 
may seem fit, with a view to the treatment of persons affected 
with any epidemic, endemic, or infectious disease, and for 
preventing the spread of such diseases on land or water, 
and on the high seas within the three-mile limit. 

Note.. The L.G. B. determine what authority or authorities shall 
enforce the regulations (see, sees. 81, 83 and 88). 

Sec. 79. Gives the L.G.B. power to make regulations 
for certain purposes. 

When any part of Scotland is threatened or affected with 
any formidable epidemic, endemic, or infectious disease, the 
L.G.B. may make regulations : 

(a) For speedy interment of the dead. 

(b) For house to house visitation. 

(c) For the provision of medical aid, dispensing of 

medicine and accommodation, for the promotion 
of cleansing, ventilation, and disinfection-, and for 
guarding against the spread of disease. 

(d) For any such matters as may seem to them advis- 

able for preventing or mitigating the spread of 
disease. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 55 

(Prevention of Epidemic Disease) 

The L.G.B. may enforce regulations for a fixed time, 
which may he varied, in the whole or part only of the 
district of any L.A., and on board ships within the juris- 
diction of the Admiralty. 

Note. The regulations may require immediate burial, and if re- 
gulations not in force, see sec. 62 and 69. 
For power of entry, sec sec. 82. 

Dispensing of medicine is provided for in sec. 66 (sec 
page 46), see also sec. 179 (page 82) as to power to re- 
cover expenses of medical service performed on board ship. 

Sec 80. All regulations and orders made by the Board 
in pursuance of this part of the Act shall be published in 
the Edinburgh Gazette. 

Sec. 81. The L.A. execute such regulations when such 
are in force in their district, and must defray all expenses 
connected therewith. 

Note. The L.G.B. may lay the duty on any other Authority 
(sec. 78). 

The duties of the M.O.H. under sec. 15 are given on 
page 19, and if extra medical officers are appointed in 
times of epidemic, the L.A. are empowered by sec. 15 to 
define the duties of such officers. 

Sec. 82. Power of entry is given to the L.A. and their 
Officers for the execution of such regulations as are made 
by the L.G.B. 

Note. Power of entry in nuisances is given in sec. 18. 

Power of entry in infectious disease is given in sec. 45. 

Power of entry for disinfection is given in sec. 47. 

For penalty for obstruction, see sec. 87. 
Xote that under this section no warrant is necessary. 

Sec. 83. The L.G.B. may order several L.A.s to combine 

for the purposes of this part of the Act. 

Note. See Part X. sees. 172 and 176 (page 81) as to the constitu- 
tion of Port Local Authorities. 



56 1T15LIC 1IKAI.T1I LAW 

Sec. 84. When regulations in force, overcrowded 
houses come under common lodging-house provisions. 

If a house is so overcrowded as to be dangerous to health, 
the L.A., on a certificate from the M.O.H., or from two duly 
qualified medical practitioners, may regulate such house 
according to the provisions of this Act in reference to 
common lodging-houses. See sees. 89-100 (page 57) for 
the law regarding C.L. Houses. 

Note. The L.A. may make bye-laws under sec. 92. 

The L.A. may deal with infectious disease under sees. 

96 and 97. 

The L.A. have power of entry under sec. 98. 

Sec. 85. Deals with other regulations made by the 
L.G.B. and the Government Officers who shall enforce 
them. 

(1) The L.G.B. may make regulations providing lor: 

(a) The signals to be hoisted by infected ships (fn-fi page 262). 
(6) The questions to be answered by masters, pilots, and 

other persons on board any vessel. 
(c) The detention of vessels and of persons on board. 
(</) The duties to be performed in cases of infectious disease 

by masters, pilots, and other persons on board vessels. 

(2) The regulations are subject to the consent of the Board 

of Trade so far as they apply to signals, and the 
following officers are required hy the L.G.B. to enfoice 
such regulations : 

(a) The officers of Customs, of the Commissioners of His 
(Majesty's Customs. 

(b) Officers or men employed in the Coastguard of the 
Admiralty. 

See Cholera, Plague, and Yellow Fever Regulations 
(page 256). 

Sec. 86. The regulations shall be uniform for the United 
Kingdom. 

JVofe. The regulations may be in force in Scotland, or in any 
district or part of a district. S/:n sec. 79. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 57 

(Prevention of Epidemic Disease) 

Sec. 87. Imposes a penalty for neglect, refusal to obey, 
or obstruction of any regulation under this part of the Act. 

Xote. The penalty imposed is up to 100, and 50 for each day 
of continuance. Such penalty is recoverable vitJi ei-penses 
at the instance of the Lord Advocate on behalf of the 
L.G.B. or the L.A. . with consent of the L.G.B. 

See sec. 146 (page 77), which provides for cases where 
the L.A. fail to carry out regulations of the L.G.B. 

See sec. 163 for genera? penalty, which does not apply here. 

See sec. 153 for recovery of penalties. 

Sec. 88. Confers extra powers on the L.G.B. to deal 
with ships arriving at any port in Scotland regarding 
penalties. 

See sec. 153 regarding recovery of penalties. 



PAET V.- REGULATION OF COMMON LODGING- 
HOUSES. 

In the English Acts there is no definition of common 
lodging-house (hut see page 154). A common lodging-house 
is defined in sec. 3 of this Act, as a house or part of a house 
where lodgers are housed at an amount not exceeding 4d. 
per night, and paid at intervals not exceeding one fortnight, 
and includes places where emigrants are lodged. The law 
with regard to common lodging-houses is different only in 
minor details in the three countries. 

Scotland. P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sees. 89-100. 

In England and Wales. P.H.A. 1875, sec. 76-89 (page 
154). 

P.H.(A.)A, 1890 (adoptive), 
sec. 32 (page 187). 

In Ireland. P.H.(I.)A., 1878, sees. 87-99. 

London. C.L.H.A.s 1851-1853. 



58 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Common lodging-houses are regulated by bye-laws which 
the L.A.s are empowered to make by the various Acts, and 
the L.G.B. have issued a Memorandum and Model Bye-laws. 

Sec. 89. Common lodging-houses must be registered. 
The L.A. have certain duties which they may or must 
perform : 

(a) They must keep a register of all common lodging-houses 
in their district, giving names and addresses of the 
keepers, the situation of the houses, and the number of 
lodgers in each house and room. 

(b) The L.A. may refuse to register under this section or 
cancel registration under section 99. 

(c) The L.A. mai/ raise the nightly charge to 6d. , with the- 
consent of the L.G.B. 

(d) The L.A. may make bye-laws (see sec. 92). 

(e) The L.A. may order adequate w. -c. accommodation 
(see sec. 94). 

(/) The L.A. maij require keeper to fill up schedules as in 
sec. 95. During small-pox outbreaks this sub-sec, is. 
usually put into operation. 

The keeper has certain duties which he must perform : 

(n) He must apply for registration annually on 15th May. 

(b) He must produce a certificate of character in such form 
as the L.A. shall direct. 

(c) He must hang a copy of bye-laws in each room (sec. 93). 

(d) He must obey and carry out all bye-laws. 

(/) He must till up schedules when required (sec. 95). 
(</) He must notify immediately any case of infectious- 
disease (sec. 97). 

Xotc There is no provision in this Act empowering the L.A. to- 
erect common lodging-houses. This power, however, is. 
given under Part III. of the Working-Classes Act, 1890 
(page 275). 

Sec. 90. No lodger to be received in common lodging- 
house till it has been inspected and registered. 

The inspector of common lodging-houses inspects the 
premises, and the L.A. approve and register. If either the 
premises or the keeper cease to be suitable, the L.A. may 
cancel registration after presenting a petition to the Sheriff 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 59 1 

(Regulations of Common Lwlginy-Houscs) 

for authority to do so. The Sheriff, if lie thinks fit, may 
grant warrant accordingly. 

Note. The inspector of C.L.H. is usually the S.I. 

As to application to the Sheriff, se- sec. 154. 
Before any premises are placed upoii the register, it is the 
duty of the L.A. to see that they are suitable as regards : 
structure, drainaye, internal arraiiycments, tcatcr supply, 
cubic space, ventilation, jirinj accommodation, u-as/n'ng and 
kitchen accommodation. 

Sec. 91. Evidence of registration. 

As evidence of registration, a certified true copy of the 
entry (price 2d.) need only be produced. 

Sec. 92. The L.A. may make bye -laws respecting 
common lodging-houses, for : 

(a) The keeping and well ordering of such. 
(6) The separation of the sexes therein. 

(c) The number of lodgers to be admitted to each house 
and room. 

(d) Sufficient w. -c. and washing accommodation for the 
lodgers. 

(e) Drainage and ashpit supply. 
(/) Cleanliness and ventilation. 

(g) Inspection, and the restrictions and conditions under 

which inspection is to lie made. 

Note. Model Bve-laws are also framed by the L.G.B. regarding 
C.L.H.S. 

For the general provisions as to bye-laws, sec sees. 183-1S7. 

Sec. 93. The keeper of a C.L.H. must hang a copy of 
bye-laws in each room in some conspicuous place. 

The L.A. furnish keepers of C.L.H. s with such copies free 
of charge. 

Sec. 94. The L.A. have power to require adequate water 
supply and w.-c. accommodation in C.L.Hs. 

If such supply or accommodation he insufficient, and 
readily obtainable at a reasonable rate, the L.A. may order 
the keeper to obtain it within a fixed time. Failure on the 
part of the keeper may be met by cancelling registration 
till the order is complied with. 



'60 J'UIUJC HEALTH LAW 

The owner or occupier may appeal to the Sheriff against 
any resolution of the L.A. ; but in districts other than 
Burghs, appeal must l>e made in the first place to the C.C. 

Xotc.Bysec. 246 of the B.P.A. 1892 (page 102) the L.A. may 
require adequate w. -c. accommodation. 

Sec. 95. The L.A. may require the keeper of a C.L.H. to 
fill up schedules, reporting to them all persons who resorted 
to the C.L.H. during the preceding day or night. 

Xiite. The schedules are supplied liy the L.A. , and are usually 
employed during outbreaks of small-pox. 

Sec. 96. The L.A. may remove infectious patients from 
a C.L.H. without a warrant. 

If removal is impossible, i.e., if dangerous to the life of 
the patient, no lodger shall be admitted to such lodging- 
house until it is certified free from infection. 

Note. This section empowers the L.A. to disinfect or destroy any 
bedding, clothing, etc. used by the patient. Similar powers 
are granted by sec. 47 of this Act, compensation being pair! 
to the owner. 

For power to remove persons other than the patient, sec 
sees. 54 and 47. 

Sec. 164 deals with compensation. 

Sec. 97. Entails immediate notification of infectious 
disease by the keeper. He must at once notify the M.O.H. 
or the S.I. (who informs the M.O.H.) The patient is 
removed, and the C.L.H. disinfected. 

The L.A. may supply accommodation, and if necessary 
maintenance at similar rates to persons prevented from 
returning to the C.L.H. during disinfection of the premises. 

Xutf. This section re-enacts with slight differences the provisions 
of sec. 96 regarding disinfection, removal of the patient to 
hospital, etc. 

Sec. 98. Gives power of entry to any officer of the L.A. 
at any time to inspect a common lodging-house. 

Note. See sec. 92 for power to make bye-laws regarding inspection. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 61 

(Regulations of Conniwii Lodging-Houses) 

Sec. 99. Cleansing of common lodging -houses. The 

keeper shall thoroughly cleanse all the rooms, passages, 
floors, windows, doors, etc. to the satisfaction of the S.I. as 
often as required by regulations and bye-laws. 

Walls and ceilings must be lime-washed in the first week 
of April and October of each year, or oftener if the L.A. so 
'direct. 

Sec. 100. Three convictions under this part of the Act 
disqualify a keeper for five years. 

Xote. Offences against this part of the Act, or of the live-laws 
relating to C. L. H.s, may be prosecuted as police offences, 
see sec. 153. 



PART VI. -DEALS WITH SEWERS, DRAINS, AND 
WATER SUPPLY. 

SEWERS AND DRAINS. 

The law with regard to sewers and drains is practically 
the same for the three countries, but only in the English 
Acts have the terms "sewer" and "drain" been defined. 
The definition in sec. 4 P.H.A. 1875 (page 136), is to the 
effect that a drain means a drain of any one building or 
premises within the same curtilage, and made merely for the 
purpose of communicating therefrom with a cesspool or other 
like receptacle for drainage, or with a sewer into which the 
drainage of two or more buildings or premises occupied by 
different persons is conveyed. 

Roughly speaking, then, a drain drains a single house, 
and becomes a sewer as soon as two or more houses are con- 
nected with it. 



<32 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

111 England, however, in districts where the P.H.(A.)A., 
1890 has been adopted, a drain which drains several build- 
ings is a " drain " even if the buildings belong to different 
owners. 

Scotland P. H.(S.) A. 1897, sees. 103-122, and see sec. 
181. 

B.P.A. 1892, sees. 215-243 (pages 96, 102). 
KP.A. 1903, sees. 25, 103 (pages 113, 127). 
For Model Bye-laws (see Appendix). 
England and Wales. P.H.A. 1875, sees. 13-34 (page 138). 
P.H.(A.)A. 1890, sees. 16-19 (page 
181). 

Ireland. P.H.(I)A. 1878, sees. 15-37. 
London. P.H.(L.)A. 1891, sec. 2. 

,, Metropolis Local Management Act, 1855, sees. 

73-76-78 and 79 and 82-85. 

Sec. 101. Sewers are vested in the Local Authority. 

All sewers, together with manways, cesspools, ventilating 
shafts, etc., are vested in the Local Authority, except 

(a) Those which are private property. 

(6) Those which are under the management of persons 
appointed by the Crown, or by Act of Parliament. 

(c) Those under the control of Burgh Commissioners, for 
which see sec. 215 of the B.P.A. 1892 (page 96), which 
says that all sewers and drains, except private branch- 
drains, land-drains, and drains under local or private 
Act of Parliament, are entirely under the control of 
the Commissioners. 



Sec. 102. The L.A. have power to purchase sewers. 

This they may do compulsorily under sees. 144 and 145 
of this Act (page 76), provided they make compensation 
for the rights so acquired. 

Note. Under the B.P.A. 1892, sec. 216, the Burgh Commis- 
sioners have similar, but not compulsory, powers. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 63 

(Sewers and Drains) 

Sec. 103. The L.A. may make, cleanse, and maintain 
sewers. The L.A. in making sewers, may go outside their 
district. They may carry sewers through, across, or under 
any road, street, or place, and, if necessary, through any 
land whatsoever, after reasonable written notice to the 
owner. This they must do without creating a nuisance. 
They must keep the sewers in such a state a* not to be a 
nuisance. 

They may make, cleanse, and maintain reservoirs, sluices, 
engines, and other works as may be necessary. They may, 
subject to the provisions of the Rivers Pollution Prevention 
Acts (sec. 3. page 249), discharge the sewage anywhere 
within or without their district. 

Note. The L.A. may utilise the sewage under sec. 108. 

If the L.A. create a nuisance, action may be taken against 
them under sec. 146, and under sec. 16. 

The L.A. may purchase land compulsorily for sewage 
purposes under sees. 144 and 145. 

The L.A. only compensate for damage done to private 
property, whereas under sec. 219 of the B.P.A. 1892, page 
97, compensation is to be paid for "passing through." 
Under the B.P.A. the Commissioners are not empowered to 

go outwith their district. Burghs have a choice of the 

B.P.A. or P.H.A. 

Sec. 104. The L.A. must give three months' notice before 
commencing sewage works outwith their district. 
The Notice^- 

(a) Shall be three months before commencement of work. 

(b) Shall contain details of the intended work. 

(c) Shall be advertised in the local newspapers, and by 
handbills in the outside district. 

(d) Shall name a place where, and the time when, the 
plans may be seen. 

Copy of the Notice 

(a) Shall be sent to the outside L.A. 

(b) Shall be sent to the County Council. 

(c) Shall be served on the owners and occupiers of the lands 
through which the sewers will pass. 

Note. As to services of notice, see sec. 159. 



64 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 105. In case of objection within three months, the 
L.A. shall not commence the work without sanction from 

the L.G.B. Any one who might be affected by the intended 
work may object. 

Note. Objections are proceeded with, as in the following sec- 
tion : 

Sec. 106. A L.G-.B. inspector holds an inquiry, and the 
the L.G.B. determine whether or not the work may be 
proceeded with. 

Note. The L.A. apply to the L.G.B. The L.G.B. appoint an 
inspector to make inquiry on the spot, and to report. The 
L.G.B. then make an order allowing or disallowing the 
intended work, with such modifications as the L.G.B. may 
deem necessary. 

Sec. 107. Gives protection for railways, canals, etc. 

Note. Where any sewer shall pass under or across, or in any 
way affect any railway or canal, etc. , the whole works in 
connection with the building of the sewer, or its mainten- 
ance or alterations, are subject to the approval of the rail- 
way or canal engineer. In the event of the L.A. and the 
railway or canal engineer disagreeing, the Sheriff shall 
appoint an independent engineer as arbiter, whose decision 
is final. 

Sec. 108. The L.A. have the power of utilising the 
sewage. 

Note. The L.A. may purchase land compulsorily, under sees. 
144 and 145 (stt page 76), for the disposal or treatment of 
sewage. 

The L.A. may contract with any person for the disposal 
of the sewage, and the contract must not exceed five years, 
unless with the consent of the L.G.B., who may allow 
contract for any time not exceeding twenty-five years. 

Sec. 109. The L.A. have power of entry to any land, either 
for the purpose of examining any existing sewers, or for 
measuring and surveying the land in connection with sewers. 

If the owner or occupier objects, the L.A. apply to the 
Sheriff, who grants a warrant. 

Note. As to applications to the Sheriff see sec. 154. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 65 

(Sewers and Drains) 

Sec. 110. A person within the district may cause his 
drains to empty into the sewers of the L.A., provided 
that 

(a) He is a person liable for the public health or 
special sewer assessment. 

(b) He gives twenty days' notice to the L.A. 

(c) He complies with the regulations of the L.A. 
regarding the mode in which communication is 
made, etc. 

(d) His sewage will not cause damage to the sewers or 
sewage of the L.A. 

Note. There is a penalty for unauthorised connection (see sec. 112). 
Persons without {lie district are dealt with in sec. 111. 

*?<> sec. 7 of the Rivers Pollution Act. 1876 (page 249) for 
the duties of the L. A. ; see also sec. 222 of the Burgh Police 
(Scotland) Act, 1892 (page 98). 

As to regulations of the L.A., see sec. 188. 

Sec. 111. A person without the district may cause his 

drains to empty into the sewers of the L.A. provided that 

(a) The sewers are large enough to deal with the 

extra sewage. 

(6) That the sewage would not damage the sewers nor 
the sewage of the L.A. 

Note. Sec. 234 of the B.P.A., 1892 (page 99) makes similar provi- 
sion with regard to sewers in Burghs. 

See sec. 7 of the R.P.P.A., 1876 (page 251). 

Sec. 112. Imposes a penalty for making unauthorised 
connection. 

Note. The penalty is not exceeding 5. 

The L.A. may close any unauthorised drain and recover 
expenses, as provided in sec. 153. 

Sec. 113. The L.A. must ohtain estimates for any sewer- 
age work costing over 30 before the work is begun. 

Sec. 114. The erection of huildings over sewers is pro- 
hibited, and no vault, arch, cellar, or sub-way, or other 

E 



66 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

structure shall be made, and no pipes of any kind shall he 
laid so as to interfere with any such sewer. 

Note. This is similar to sec. 228 of the B.P.A., 1892 (page 99). 

Sec. 115. All sewers and drains must be trapped and 
ventilated by the persons to whom they belong. 

Note. Sees. 229 and 241 of the B.P.A., 1892, contain similar 
provisions (see pp. 99, 101). 

Sec. 116. Distillers and manufacturers must construct 
reservoirs in their own premises, and purify their refuse 
before discharging it. 

Note, That is to say, the owners or occupiers of distilleries, 
factories, and other works, must construct pools or reser- 
voirs for their refuse, and use the best practical >le means for 
rendering it so inoffensive that it will not cause nuisance 
before its discharge into any river, stream, or sewer, etc. 

Sec. 233 of the B.P.A. , 1892, contains similar provisions 
(see page 99). Sec also the provisions of the Rivers Pollu- 
tion Act, 1876 (page 249), and of the 1893 Act. 

For penalties for pollution of drinking water, see sees. 
127-129 of this Act. 

Sec. 117. Imposes a penalty for interrupting the free flow 
of sewage. It is illegal to throw into any sewer any matter 
likely to interrupt the free flow of the sewage, or likely to 
damage the sewer. Penalty for contravention up to 10, and 
a daily penalty of 1. 

JVoie. See sec. 151 as to penalty for damaging the property of the 

L.A. 
Also see sec. 223 of B.P.A. (page 98). 

Sec. 118. Imposes a penalty for placing a carcase or part 
thereof in any running water, spring, well, lake, reservoir, 
drain, or ditch. Penalty not exceeding 10. 

Note. This is similar to sec. 2 of the Rivers Pollution Act, 1876 
(page 249), and to sec. 381 of the B.P.A., 1892 (page 110). 

Sec. 119. The L.A. may place the outfall of their sewers 
below low-water mark, with consent of Board of Trade, and 
the Commissioners of Woods and Forests. 

Note. See sec. 235 of the B.P.A., 1892 (page 100) which allows 
sewers to discharge below Azgr/i-water mark. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 67 

(Seiners and J)mi>is) 

Sec. 120. All buildings must be adequately drained. If a 

house, distillery, manufactory, or other work within the 
district of a L.A. is without sufficient provision for drainage, 
the L.A. may, by notice, require the owner to construct a 
proper drain, and make communication with a sewer, if 
there be one within 100 yards. If there be no such sewer, 
the L.A. may direct that the drain be led into a covered 
cesspool, or other place. If this is not done within a specified 
time, the L.A. may carry out the work, and recover the cost 
from the owner. If two or more houses are concerned, and 
it would be cheaper to provide a new sewer, the L.A. may 
do so, and apportion the expenses between the various owners, 
and recover the expenses summarily if necessary. In the 
event of a dispute, the Sheriffs decision is final. 

Note. This section is similar to sees. 238 and 239 of the B.P.A. , 
1892 (pp. 100, 101), but note that the B.P.A. provides 
for houses with drains emptying into the sea. 

For drainage of common lodging-houses, see sec. 92. 

For drainage of houses let in lodgings, sec sec. 72. 

For drainage of new buildings, sec sec. 181. 

For service of notice, sec sec. 159. 

The L.A. recover expenses under sees. 153 and 154. 

Sec. 121. Two or more L. A.s may combine for the purposes 
of sewage and drainage. This with the consent of the 

L.<;.B. 

Note. Under the Burgh Police Act, 1892, joint drainage works 
can only be carried out by means of Provisional Orders (see 
sec. 45 of the B.P.A.) 

(a) If sewage works are for a Burgh, the expenses are paid 
out of the special sewer assessment authorised by sec. 
133. 

(b) If other than a Burgh, the expenses are paid out of the 
public health general assessment authorised by sec. 135. 

(c) If sewage works are for a special drainage district, 
authorised under sec. 122. the expenses are paid as in a 
Burgh. 

Sec. 122. Special drainage districts in districts other than 
in Burghs. (In Burghs the B.P.(S.)A. applies, page 218.) 



68 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(1) If a Parish Council or ten ratepayers requisition, or if 

the L.A. themselves determine to take up the matter, 
they shall, after twenty-one days' notice, meet to con- 
sider the propriety of 

(a) Forming part of their district into a special drainage 
district (S.D. D.). 

(b) Enlarging or limiting the boundaries of a S. D.D. 

(c) Combining one S. D.D. with another. 

(d) Enlarging or limiting the boundaries of either or both 
of such S.D. D.s, and combining the same or parts 
thereof. 

(e) Determining that a S. D.D. , or combination of S.D. D.s, 
shall cease to exist. 

Any resolution of the L.A. must be made public in a local 
newspaper or by handbills, and a copy of the resolution 
must be sent to the L.G.B. or to the C.C., if the L.A. 
be a District Council (D.C.). 

Interested parties may appeal within twenty-one days to 
the Sheriff. The Sheriffs decision is final, but appeal 
may be made to the Sheriff against a Sheriff-Substitute's 
decision. 

(2) The Sheriff shall determine all questions regarding pay- 

ment of debt and assessment, and the Sheriff's order is 
to be published, and a copy sent to the L.G.B., or the 
C.C. in the case of a D.C. 

(3) It is not competent for any person to appeal to the C.C. 

against the resolution of a D.C. under this section. 
Note. This precludes the application of sec. 17 of the Local 
Government Act, 1889, which provides that any five rate- 
payers may appeal to the C. C. against any proceedings or 
order of a D. C. being put into force. 

(4) The D.C. of a S.D.D., or the C.C., if the County is not 

divided into districts, have power to provide for the 
drainage of highways and footpaths. 

(5) Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice sec. 44 of 

the Local Government Act, 1894, which provides as 
follows : 

The management of a S. D. D. rests with a sub-committee 
appointed by the District Council, and consisting of Parish, 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 69 

( Water Supply) 

Councillors, or partly of Parish Councillors, and partly of 
District Councillors. When a S.D.D. lies partly within a 
Burgh the sub-committee must include members of the 
Town Council or Burgh Commissioners. When the S.D.D. 
lies wholly within a Burgh, the Burgh Commissioners are 
alone responsible. 

Note. Sec. 131, in regard to a special water supply district, 
contains similar provisions to this section. 

For power to borrow money for this section, see sec. 139. 

For assessments for the upkeep of drains, etc., see sec. 
133. 

Note that this section of the P. H.(S).A. does not apply 
to Burghs, as the provisions of sec. 218 of the Burgh Police 
Act contain information as to the formation of special 
drainage districts (page 97). 

Sec. 123. Enjoins that works of distribution of sewage 

shall be deemed a land improvement. 



AVATER SUPPLY. 

Acts : 

Scotland. P. H.(S.) A., 1897, sees. 124-132. 

B.P.(S.)A., 1892, sees. 246, 247, 257-269 (pp. 103, 105-7). 

England and Wales. P.H.A., 1875, sees. 51-70, 91, and 
299 (see pages 147, 157, 176). 

P.H.(A.)A., 1890 (adoptive), sec. 47 (gee page 189). 

P.H.A.(A.)A., 1907, sec. 35 (see page 192). 

P.M. (Water) A., 1878, sees. 3-8 (page 217). 

Ireland. P.H.(I.)A., 1878, sees. 61-79 and 212. 

P.H.(I.)A., 1896, sees. 5 and 15. 

London. P.H.(L.)A., 1891, sees. 48-54. 

The foregoing, which may be supplemented by local Acts, 
give power to L.A.s to insist upon adequate and wholesome 
water supplies. In the London Act, a dwelling-house with- 
out sufficient supply is held to be unfit for human habitation. 

Sec. 124. Supply of water for Burghs. 

With respect to Burghs, subject to the provisions of the 
B.P.A., 1892, or where there exists a local Act for police or 



70 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

other purposes, nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice 
the provisions of any of the said Acts in regard to the provision 
of a supply of water. Provided that in the B.P.A., 1892, 
and in the Land Clauses Acts, so far as incorporated there- 
with, the term " land " shall include water, and any right or 
servitude to or over land or water. 

Note. The provisions of the B. P.A., 1892, in regard to water 
supply are contained in sees. 257-269 (pp. 105-7). The 
powers therein are ample, but only Burghs with a population 
of less than 5,000 can acquire land oompulsorily. This 
they may do, after applying to the Sheriff to put in force 
the provisions of the Lands Clauses Acts, with reference to 
the acquisition of lands otherwise than by agreement, in 
accordance with the procedure set forth in sec. 60 of the 
B.P.A. 

Sec. 125. The L.A. shall require owners of occupied 
houses in districts other than Burghs to supply such houses 
with water, if there be a water supply reasonably near at 
hand. If the owner fails to do this after twelve months' due 
notice, the L.A. may do the work, and recover expenses, or 
part thereof, in a summary manner- from the owner. 

In the event of a dispute, the Sheriff's decision is final. 
]S r othing in this section is to be held to relieve any L.A. of 
the duty of providing their district, or any part thereof, with 
a supply of water, where a general scheme for such supply is 
required and can be carried out at a reasonable cost. 

Note.tiec sees. 246 and 263 of the B.P.A., 1892 (pp. 102, 106). 
There is no power in this the P.H. (S.)A. to compel 
owners to introduce water into their houses, but in Burghs 
the L.A. can force owners to do this (see sec. 246 of the 
B.P.A., page 102). 

As to service of notices, see sec. 159. 

As to acquisition of land, sec sees. 144 and 145. 

Sec. 126. Supply of water for districts other than Burghs. 

(1) The L.A., if they think it expedient, may introduce a 
water supply into their district. They may do the 
work necessary themselves (conduct it from any lake, 
river, spring, etc.), purchase land, dig wells, etc., or 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 71 

( Water tiupply) 

contract with some other person to supply water ; but 
they must not supply water in any area where another 
L.A. or any Company is already authorised to supply 
it under any Act of Parliament or a Provisional Order, 
unless the rights of that L.A. or Company have been 
purchased. 

(2) Any surplus water may be used by the L.A. for public 

baths, wash-houses, etc., or for trading and manufactur- 
ing purposes, on terms to be arranged. Provided that 
when water is thus supplied from such surplus it shall 
not be lawful for the L.A. to charge persons supplied 
both with the portion of the special water assessment 
and also for the supply of water obtained, but only for 
one or the other, as they think fit. 

(3) Empowers the L.A. to supply water free of charge for 

public baths, wash-houses, etc., and from existing pumps, 
wells, reservoirs, etc. 
Note. Sec sec. 44. L.G.A. 1894. 

(4) The L.A. have the same powers, and shall be subject to 

the same restrictions, as provided, in sees. 103, 107, and 
109 (dealing with sewers). 

Note. Sub-sec. (1) of this section is similar to sec. 261 of the 
B.P. A. , 1892, and embraces the power given to Burghs (see, 
page 106). Sub-sec. (2) of this section regarding assess- 
ments of extra charges, is the same terms as sec. 264 of the 
B.P.A., 1892 (page 106). Sub-sec. (3) corresponds to sec. 
257 of the B.P.A., 1892 (page 105). Regarding water 
supply in common lodging-houses the L.A. may supply it 
free of charge (,w sec. 69 of the Housing of the Working 
Classes Act, 1890). 

Sec. 127. Imposes a penalty of 50 on anyone causing 
water to be corrupted by gas-washings, vitriol, dye-stuffs, 
etc. 

Any one engaged in any trade, who wilfully allows delete- 



72 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

rious substances to flow into any water supply (used for 

domestic purposes), is liable to a penalty not exceeding 50. 

Note. For the provisions as to the pollution of other waters, see 

sees. 116 and 118 of this Act, and also the Rivers 

Pollution Prevention Acts. 

Sec. 128. Penalties may be sued for within six months. 

Such penalty as mentioned in the preceding section shall 
be recoverable by (i) the person whose water is fouled, or 
(ii) by the L.A. 

Sec. 129. Imposes a daily penalty during continuance of 
offence. 

In addition to the said penalty, or in the absence of said 
penalty, a daily penalty not exceeding 5 may be imposed, 
and recovered as in sec. 128. 

Sec. 130. Two or more L.A.s may combine for the purpose 
of water supply. This with the sanction of the L.G.B. 

(same as sec. 121). 

Note. In Burghs, water works can only be undertaken in terms 
of the B.P.A. , 1892, or local Acts, and combination for 
joint works can only be effected by means of Provisional 
Orders in terms of sec. 45 of the B. P. A. 

Sec. 131. Special water supply districts in districts 
other than Burghs. 

The following is exactly the same as provisions for sewage districts, 
sec. 122. 

(l) If a Parish Council, or ten ratepayers requisition, or if 
the L.A. themselves determine to take the matter up, 
they shall, after twenty-one days' notice, meet to con- 
sider the propriety of 

(x) Forming part of their district into a special water 
supply district. 

(b) Enlarging or limiting the boundaries thereof. 

(c) Combining one special water supply district with 
another. 

(d) Enlarging or limiting the boundaries of either or both 
of such districts, and combining the same or part 
thereof. 

(e) Determining that a special water supply district or 
combination of districts shall cease to exist. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 73 

( Water S-upjily) 

Any resolution of the L.A. must be made public in a 
local newspaper or by handbills, and a copy of the 
resolution must be sent to the L.G.B., or to the C.C. if 
the L.A. be a District Council (D.C.). 

Interested parties may appeal within twenty-one days 
to the Sheriff, whose decision is final. Appeal may be 
made against a Sheriff-Substitute's decision. 

(2) The Sheriff shall determine all questions regarding pay- 
ment of debt and assessment, and the Sheriff's order is 
to be published, and a copy to be sent to the L.G.B., or, 
in the case of a D.C., to the C.C. 

{3) It is not competent for any person to appeal to the C.C. 
against the resolution of a D.C. under this section. 

(4) Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice sec. 44 of 

the Local Government Act, 1894. 
Xote. See the notes to sec. 122. 

Sec. 132. Incorporation of Waterworks Clauses Acts. 

This section incorporates in this Act the Waterworks 
Clauses Acts, 1847 and 1863, as well as the provisions of the 
Kail ways Clauses Consolidation (Scotland) Act, 1845. It 
provides also that () the L.A. shall not be obliged to 
furnish a supply of water to any person for less than 5s. for 
any one year. (b) Xo person shall be entitled to demand a 
supply of water, or to require the L.A. to lay down com- 
municating pipes to any premises, unless the L.A. have 
already laid down, or are bound to lay down a pipe within 
100 feet of such premises. The water supplied by the L.A. 
need not be constantly laid on under pressure. 



74 PUBLIC HEALTH LA\Y 



PAET VII.-EATING AND BORROWING POWERS. 

Sec. 133. Special sewer assessment. In any Burgh, or 
where any special drainage district has been formed, the 
expense incurred by the L.A. for sewage or drainage within 
the same shall be paid out of a special sewer assessment, 
which the L.A. shall raise and levy within such Burgh or 
district. 

If a special drainage district has been formed, such district 
is not liable for assessment for the expense of making sewers 
and drains, etc., in another part of the district of the L.A. 

Xotr,. As to limit of assessment, see sec. 137 (page 75). The 
sewer rate under the B. P. A. is unlimited. The cost of 
sewage works in a Burgh will, if carried out under the 
B.P.A., be met by an assessment on owners ; if under 
this Act, the assessment will be half on owners and half 
on occupiers, but limited as in sec. 137. For borrowing 
powers, sec sec. 139. 

Sec. 134. Special water assessment. This is levied as in 
the preceding section. 

Sec. 135. General assessments in districts other than 
Burghs. In districts other than Burghs, the expenses 
incurred by the L.A. in the execution of the provisions of 
this Act shall be defrayed out of the Public Health General 
Assessment, which is levied by the L.A. on all lands and 
heritages within the district. 

Note. This assessment will also be applicable to any other objects 
for which there is statutory authority for applying the 
Public Health General Assessment, as, for instance, the 
execution of the I.D.(IS T .)A., the R.P.P.A., C.D.(A.)A., 
inspection of dairies, and enforcing the sanitary provisions 
of the F. and W.A. 

Sec. 136. General assessments in Burghs. The provisions 
of this section are similar to the preceding, but where a 
special drainage district has been formed, such district shall 



PUBLIC: HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1397 75 

(Hating and Ii or rot ring Powers) 

not be liable for assessment for the expense of making 
sewers in other parts of the district of the L.A. 

Sec. 137. Limit of assessments. The Public Health 
General Assessment shall not exceed the rate of one shilling 
in the pound. 

The special sewer assessment, and the special water 
assessment, shall not exceed three shillings in the pound. 

Note. These special assessments if found insufficient may be in- 
creased by the L.A. with the consent of the L.G.B. 

Sec. 138. Burghs shall not be assessed for the public 
health rate in counties. 

Sec. 139. Power for borrowing for sewers. Tt shall be 
lawful for the L.A. to borrow for the purpose of acquiring, 
making, enlarging, or reconstructing sewers, or for the 
purpose of utilising sewage. 

Sec. 140. Power of borrowing for water supply. The 
powers conferred on the L.A. are similar to those in the 
preceding section. 

Sec. 141. Power of borrowing for hospitals, reception- 
houses, etc. It shall be lawful for the L.A. to borrow for 
the purpose of providing offices for the use of the L.A. ; 
and for providing and furnishing such permanent hospitals, 
disinfecting premises, and apparatus, houses of reception, or 
mortuaries as are hereinbefore authorised. 

Sec. 142. Gives power to Public Works Loan Commis- 
sioners to lend to L.A. for sanitary purposes. 

Sec. 143. The accounts of every L.A. shall be audited. 



76 .PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



PART VIII. ACQUISITION OF LANDS. 

Sec. 144. Power of the L.A. to acquire lands. A L.A. 
may, for any of the purposes of Parts II., III., and VI. of 
this Act purchase, lease, sell, or exchange any lands within 
or without their district. They may also buy up any water- 
mill, dam, or weir which interferes with their drainage or 
water-supply. They may also, with the sanction of the 
L.G.B., sell or let surplus land. 

Note. This section is made use of in the following sections, 29, 
34, 46, 66, 68, 70, 71, 102, 103, 108, 121, 125, 126 and 130. 

Sec. 145. Regulations as to the compulsory purchase of 
land. The following regulations shall be observed by the 
L.A. before applying to the L.G.B. for an order empowering 
them to put in force the powers of the Lands Clauses Acts. 

(1) The L.A. shall publish once at least in each of two 
consecutive weeks in some newspaper circulating in 
the district of the proposed land, describing the 
purpose for which it is to be taken, and giving parti- 
culars as to plans. 

(2) They shall serve a notice on every owner, lessee, and 
occupier of such land, defining the land to be taken, 
and requiring an answer whether the person so served 
assents, dissents, or is neutral. 

The plans are drawn at least on a scale of 4" to a mile. 

The L.A. may now petition the L.G.B. 

The L.G.B. then hold an inquiry. 

The L.G.B. may then grant a Provisional Order em- 
powering the L.A. to put into force the Lands Clauses Acts. 

The L.G.B. determine the payment of costs by the L.A. 

The L.A. now send a copy of the Order to each of the 
owners, lessees, etc., to whom they previously sent the notices. 

This is final, unless someone interested presents, within 
two months, a memorial to the Secretary for Scotland, 
praying that the Order of the L.G.B. shall not become laAv 
without confirmation by Parliament. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 77 

(Legal Proceedings) 

The Secretary for Scotland presents the Order to Parlia- 
ment, and Parliament confirms, unless someone petitions 
Parliament before the expiry of seven days after the second 
reading. Then Parliament hears the case, and decides for 
or against with costs. 

Note. The L.G. B. shall not make any Order for purchasing the 
whole or part of any park, garden, pleasure ground, or 
any land the property of a railway or canal company, or 
any land which may be required for the extension of any 
factory or public work. 



PART IX.-LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 

Sec. 146. Procedure if the L. A neglect their duty under 
this Act. If any nuisance shall exist in any premises 
possessed or managed by the L.A., or if the L.A. fail to 
perform any duty imposed upon them by this Act, it 
shall be competent for any of the following persons to give 
notice to the L.A. : 

(a) Ten ratepayers residing in the district. 

(b) The Parish Council. 

(c) The Procurator-Fiscal of the Sheriff Court of the county. 

(d) TheKG.B. 

If the L.A. do not remedy or remove the nuisance within 
fourteen days, or, in the case of any regulation of the L.G.B. 
under Part IV. (Epidemic Disease), if they fail within two 
days, it shall be competent for the complainer to apply to 
the Sheriff by summary petition. The Sheriff decides, and 
may order the work to be carried out under the supervision 
of such persons as he may think fit, and at the expense of 
the L.A. 

If drainage works are necessary for the removal or remedy 
of the nuisance, the Sheriff may suspend consideration of 
the complaint, in order to enable a general system of drainage 
to be carried out. 



78 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 147. Provides for cases in which the L.A. refuse 

to cany out the provisions of the Act. 

Note. The L.G.B. can take steps to compel the L.A. to perform 
their duties under this or any other Act. 

Sec. 148. If the L.A. have failed in their duty, the 
L.G.B. may direct the Procurator-Fiscal to sue such L.A. 

Sec. 149. Procedure where nuisance exists beyond the 
district. The L.A. of the district where a nuisance exists 
must, on the complaint of another L.A., remove or remedy 
the nuisance at their own expense, and the complaining L.A. 
may recover any expenses incurred. 

Any dispute is settled by the L.G.B. 

Sec. 150. The L.A. may require payment of costs, etc., 

from owner or occupier. If the occupier pays, he may 
deduct such sums from his rent. 

Sec. 151. The penalty for wilful damage of works 

belonging to any L.A. is 5, in addition to cost of repairing 
such works or property. 

Sec. 152. Deals with the appearance of L.A.s in legal 
proceedings. 

Sec. 153. Deals with the recovery of penalties- All 

penalties under this Act, and also all sums of money and 
expenses herein directed to be recovered in a summary 
manner, may, unless otherwise provided in this Act (as in 
sees. 87 and 88), be recovered at the suit of the L.A. : 
Provided always that nothing contained in this section 
shall afi'ect any other mode of recovery allowed by this Act : 
Provided also that all contraventions of the provisions of 
this Act relating to " overcrowding," and contraventions of 
bye-laws, etc., relating to common lodging-houses may be 
prosecuted as police offences. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 79 

(Legal Proceedings) 

Sec. 154. Deals with the form of application to the 
Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice. After the Sheriff has 
received an application he may 

(1) Appoint the petition to be answered within three days ; 
or, 

(2) Order the parties to attend him in person, and if the 
respondent fails to appear he may at once decern ; or. 

(3) He may appoint some competent person to examine 
and report to him, and he may decern on this report ; or, 

(4) He may appoint a time within five days when he shall 
hear proof, and give decree within three days after 
hearing proof. 

Sec. 155. Enjoins that no written pleadings, etc., shall 
be allowed. 

Sec. 156. Allows of appeal in certain cases under sub- 
sees. 9, 10, and 11 of sec. 16, that is regarding furnaces, 
chimneys, and churchyards. If alterations required for the 
remedy of such nuisances would cost anything up to 50, 
the Sheriffs decision is final. Appeal may be made from 
decision of Sheriff-Substitute. If over this sum, the party 
may appeal to the Lord Ordinary, whose decision is final, 
unless he allows a reclaiming note to the Inner House, 
whose judgment is then final. 

Sec. 157. There shall be no appeal from any decree of a 
Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice except in cases under the 
preceding section. 

Sec. 158. A Sheriff, Magistrate, or Justice may act not- 
withstanding his being a member of the L. A. 

Sec. 159. Deals with the service of notices, petitions, 
and orders. These may be served by any one personally or 
through the post, or if no one is found on the premises, by 
fixing such notices, etc., upon some conspicuous part of the 
premises. 

Sec. 160. Deals with proof of regulations of the L. A. 



80 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 161. If several owners or occupiers are answerable 
for any offence, it is only necessary to proceed against one 
or more of them. 

Sec. 162. Penalty on occupier for obstructing owner. 

If the occupier prevents the owner from carrying out the 
provisions of this Act, appeal may be made to a S., M., or 
J., and if obstruction still continues, the occupier is liable 
to a penalty not exceeding 5 for every day of continuance 
thereafter. 

Sec. 163. Penalty for violating this Act or obstructing 
its execution. Who ever wilfully violates or contravenes 
any provision of this Act to which pecuniary penalty is not 
herein attached, or obstructs any person acting under 
authority, or who wilfully violates any regulation of the 
L.G.B., is liable for every such offence to a penalty not 
exceeding 5. 

Sec. 164. Compensation shall be made to any person 
sustaining any damage by reason of the exercise of any of 
the powers of this Act. 

Sec. 165. Convictions shall not be void for want of form. 

Sec. 166. The L.A. or the L.G-.B. are not liable for any 
irregularity committed by their officers. 

Sec. 167. Deals with forms. 

Sec. 168. Deals with exemption from stamp duties. 

Sec. 169. Police constables shall aid in executing this 
Act. 

Sec. 170. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
impair any right of action in respect of nuisance at common 
law. 

Sec. 171. All powers given by this Act shall be deemed 
in addition to, and not in derogation of, any power con- 
ferred by Act of Parliament. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 81 

PART X. PORT SANITARY AUTHORITIES. 

The statutory duties of the M.O.H. in connection with 
a port, are given under the General Order of the L.G.B., 
1891. 

Sec. 172. The L.G-.B. may, by order, constitute as Port 
Local Authority (P.L. A.) of the whole or part of any port : 

(a) Any L A. whose district, or part of it, forms am r part 
or abuts on any part of a port in Scotland. 

(b) Any person having authority in or over the whole or 
part of the port. 

A joint P.L.A. may be constituted as in the English 
Act (page 175). Orders constituting P.L.A.s must be laid 
before both Houses of Parliament, and in the case of a 
joint P.L.A. , such orders may prescribe the mode of joint 
action. 

The order may assign to the P.L.A. any powers, duties, 
etc., under this Act. 

A port is defined as in the English Act (page 175). 

Sec. 173. Jurisdiction of a P.L.A. The Order of the 
L.G.B. constituting a P.L.A. shall be deemed to give such 
Authority jurisdiction over all waters within the limits speci- 
fied in the Order. 

Note With this section read also sees. 177, 178. 

Sec. 174. Delegation of Powers by a P.L.A. A P.L.A. 

may, with the sanction of the L.G.B., delegate any of the 
powers given them to any adjoining L.A. But no adjoining 
P.L.A. shall have any jurisdiction within a properly con- 
stituted P.L.A. 

Sec 175. Expenses of a P.L.A. This section deals with 
the manner in which the P.L.A.s shall derive the money to 
meet their expenses. 

Sec. 176. Debts due to a P.L.A. This section deals with 
the manner in which the P.L.A. may raise money in the 
district of any defaulting L.A. 

F 



82 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

PART XI. MISCELLANEOUS. 

PROVISIONS AS TO SHIPS. (Sees. 177-180). 

Sec. 177. Ships shall be subject to the same provisions as 
houses. Any ship in any river, harbour, or other water 
within the district of the L.A., shall be subject to the same 
provisions of this Act as a house within the district. Any 
ship belonging to His Majesty's, or to any foreign Government, 
shall be excepted. 

Sec. 178. Ships within three miles of the coast of Scot- 
land shall be deemed to be within the district of such L.A. 
as may be prescribed by the L.G.B. 

Sec. 179. The charges of a Medical Officer attending sick 
persons on board any ship are to be paid by the captain. If 
the M.O.H. be the medical attendant, the L.A. is entitled 
to charge a fee. If a practitioner be the medical officer, he 
himself charges the fee. Disputes to be settled by the 
Sheriff. 

Note. The M.O.H., whose whole time is devoted to the L. A., does 
not usually undertake treatment of non-infectious diseases 
occurring on board ships. Part time M. 0. H. s may do so. ; 

Sec. 180. The L.A. may make bye-laws for the removal 

to isolation hospital of sick persons brought by ship. 
Note. Sees. 54 and 55. 

PROVISIONS AS TO BUILDINGS. 

Sec. 181. The L.A. may make bye-laws for new buildings, 
(l) The L.A. of any district other than a Burgh may, subject 
to the approval of the C.C., make bye-laws applicable to 
the whole or part of their district, for regulating the 
building or re-building of houses for human habitation, 
or for regulating any alteration in the mode of occupancy 



PUBLIC HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1897 83 

(Provisions ax to Buildings) 

of any existing house in such a manner as will increase 
the number of separate houses, in respect of the follow- 
ing matters : 

(a) The drainage of the sub-soil of sites for, and for the 
prevention of dampness therein. 

(b) The structure of walls, foundations, roofs, and chimneys 
of new buildings in so far as these are likely to affect 
human health. 

(c) The ventilation of houses and buildings. 

(d) The siifficiency of air space about buildings. 

(e) The construction and arrangement of the drainage of 
houses and buildings, and of soil-pipes and waste-pipes, 
and the construction and position of water-closets, 
earth -closets, privies, ashpits, cesspools, dung-steads, 
slop-sinks, rain-water pipes, and rhones. 

(/) The production of suitable building plans in respect of 
the. matters in this section mentioned, and their in- 
spection. 

(g) The intimation, previous to the commencement by the 
owner or person laying out the work, to the L.A. of 
the date of commencement, and for the due inspection, 
in respect of matters mentioned, of houses or buildings 
in process of erection or alteration, and the examina- 
tion of the drains thereof, and for the pulling down, 
alteration, or amendment of any work which has been 
carried out in contravention of the bye-laws. 

(2) In making such bye-laws the L.A. shall have regard to the 
special circumstances of their district, or the part thereof 
to which such bye-laws relate. 

Note. The powers of this section do not apply to Burghs. 

This section practically enables L. A. s of landward districts 
to insist on the foregoing requirements with regard to 
buildings which formerly could only be enforced in Burghs 
under the B. P. Acts. 

Sec. 182. It is illegal to erect new buildings on " made- 
up " soil. It shall not be lawful to erect a new building on 
any ground which has been filled up with any matter 
impregnated with faecal, animal, or vegetable matter, unless 
such matter has been properly removed, or shall have become 
innocuous. Penalty for contravention. 5, and a daily 
penalty of 2. 

Note. This is similar to sec. 179 of the B.P.A., 1892 (see page 94). 



84 PUBLIC; HEALTH LAW 

PROVISIONS AS TO BYE-LAWS. 

Sec. 183. All bye-laws made by a L.A. under this Act 
shall be under their common seal, or if they have no common 
seal, shall be signed by two members and the clerk of 
the L.A. 

A bye-law must not be repugnant to the law of Scotland. 

A bye-law may be altered or repealed. 

Note. For further information about bye-laws, see page 3. 

Bye-laws may be made under this Act for the following : 

Offensive trades (sec. 32). 

Slaughter-houses, etc. (sees. 32 and 33). 

Removal of refuse (sees. 32 and 37). 

Pig-styes (sec. 35). 

Public conveyances (sec. 65). 

Mortuaries (sec. 68). 

Houses let in lodgings (sec. 72). 

Common lodging-houses (sec. 92). 

Removal of ship patients to hospital (sec. 180). 

New buildings (sec. 181). 

Sec. 184. Power of the L.A. to impose penalties for 
breach of bye-laws. The L.A. may impose penalties up to- 
5, but the bye-laws shall be so framed as to allow of the 
recovery of any sum less than the full amount of the 
penalty. 

Sec. 185. Confirmation of bye-laws. Bye-laws of the 
L.A. are subject to the approval of the L.G.B. 

The procedure is as follows : 

(a) At least one month before making application to the- 
L.G.B. for confirmation of the bye-laws, the L.A. must 
publish in some local newspaper or by handbills the fact 
that they intend to apply for such confirmation. 

(1>) For at least one month after application has been made, 
they must keep open for inspection at their offices a 
copy of such bye-laws. 

(c) The clerk of the L.A. shall furnish any ratepayer with 
a copy of the proposed bye-laws at a charge of 6d. for 
every 100 words contained therein. 

Persons aggrieved may complain to the L.G.B. within the- 
last-mentioned month. 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACTS, 1892-1903 85 
(Provisions as to Jiye-Laics) 

Sec. 186. All "bye-laws shall be printed and hung up in 
the office of the L.A-, and any ratepayer is entitled to a copy 
free of charge. 

Note.- This after confirmation of bye-laws by the L.G.B. 

Sec. 187. A signed and certified copy of the bye-laws 
shall be deemed as proof of the existence of any bye-laws. 

Sec. 188. The provisions of this Act relating to bye-laws 
shall not apply to any regulations made by the L.A. 

Sees. 189, 190, 191, 192, 193. Deal with the saving of 
other Acts of Parliament. 

Sec. 194. Exempts Government property from building 
regulations. 

Sec. 195. Applies the Act to the City of Aberdeen, not- 
withstanding the Aberdeen Corporation Act of 1891. 

Sec. 197. Deals with the repeal of certain Acts. 



BUEGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACTS, 1892-1903. 

These Acts are for regulating the Police and Sanitary 
Administration of towns and populous places, and it must 
be clearly understood at the outset that they in no way 
interfere with the provisions of the Public Health Act. 
The student must have noticed how frequently the words 
in districts other than Burghs appear in various sections of 
the P.H.(S.)A. In such sections the P.H.(8.)A. takes effect 
only in districts other than Burghs, the Burghs being 
legislated for in the B.P. Acts. The provisions of the two 
Acts, but for a few minor details, are similar, so far as 
sanitary administration is concerned. 



Ob PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

The B.P.A., 1903, is an Act to amend and amplify the 
Act of 1892, and in order to save repetition, and to simplify 
matters for the student, it has been thought advisable to 
give, firstly, the B.P.A., 1892, as amended by the 1903 
Act, and secondly, to give the amplifying sections of the 
1903 Act, in each case quoting only such sections of the 
Act as are of interest to the Public Health student. 

Note. For definition of Burgh, see page 17. 



BITKGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892. 

Sec. 5. This Act applies to all existing Burghs, except 
Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Dundee and Greenock 
though it may be adopted in these in whole or in part and 
to every newly-created Burgh from the day its creation is 
recorded in the Sheriff-Court books. Where the Act applies, 
it takes the place of the general or local Police Acts, although 
certain sections of these may be retained in particular cases. 

Sec. 73. Commissioners shall appoint a person com- 
petent to act as surveyor of paving, drainage, and other 
works. 

Sec. 74. Commissioners may appoint an Inspector of 
Cleansing. 

Sec. 75. Commissioners shall appoint a Sanitary- 
Inspector, subject to provisions of the P.H.(S.)A. sec. 15. 

Sec. 76. Commissioners may appoint the same person 
to fill the three foregoing positions. 

Sec. 77. The Commissioners shall appoint a Medical 
Officer of Health. 

Note. He must be a registered practitioner, and if appointed after 
15th May 1894, must possess a diploma in Sanitary Science 
or State Medicine. The duties of the M . 0. H. will be to 
ascertain the existence of disease, especially infectious 
disease : to point out causes likely to occasion or continue 
such, or cause injury to health : to pohit out the best 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 87 

(Scavenging and Cleansing) 

means of checking or preventing such : to report upon 
aforesaid matters, and to perform all other duties per- 
taining to M.O.H.s under the P.H. Acts. The Com- 
missioners must make bye-laws to regulate the duties of 
the M.O.H. and S.I, who cannot be dismissed without 
consent of L. G. B. 

Sec. 86. Police constables axe required to aid in sup- 
pressing nuisances. 

SCAVENGING AND CLEANSING (Sees. 107-127). 

These matters are dealt with in the P.H.(S.) A., sees. 37-42 
(pages 30, 32), the points of difference in the provisions of 
the two Acts being found in the notes below each section. 

Sec. 107. Duty of the Burgh Commissioners to scavenge 
and cleanse their districts. It is the duty of the Burgh 
Commissioners to collect at convenient hours dung, dust, 
ashes, tilth, etc., from streets, sewers, cesspools, houses, , and 
other premises, except cattle dung, mill dust, refuse and 
ashes front any icwk. 

Owners must provide sufficient access to dung-steads, or 
pay the extra expense of removal. The materials collected 
are vested in the Commissioners. 

Note. There is no provision in the P. H.(S. )A. enabling the 
L.A. to utilise, nor to undertake the removal of refuse 
(sec sec. 37, P. H.(S. )A.. page 30). This refuse must not 
be confused with "sewage," the provisions of the two 
Acts regarding which are reversed. 

The P.H.(S.)A., sec. 108 (page 64), gives the L.A. power 

to utilise sewage. There is no such provision in the B. P. A. 

By sec. 39 (P.H.(S.)A. ), if a special scavenging district 

has been formed, the D.C. may cleanse and scavenge their 

highways, etc. 

Sec. 108. Empowers the Commissioners to obtain land 
to be used in connection with the disposal of refuse. 
The land may be within or without the Burgh, and may 
Ve used for the erection of stables, etc., or for premises for 
the treatment of refuse. 

Note. The P.H.(S).A., 1897, has no such provision. 



88 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 109. Covered dust carts collect refuse at suitable 
hours. The Commissioners may send covered carts at suit- 
able hours through the streets to collect refuse. 

The hours must be advertised, and occupiers of premises 
are to be notified to place refuse, etc., in boxes (approved 
by the C.I.), on the outside of the pavement opposite their 
premise?. 

In districts where this daily removal is carried out, the 
Commissioners may order all ashpits to be closed, and 
failure to comply entails a penalty of ten shillings. 

Sec. 110 (as amended by sec. 104 B.P.(S.)A . 1903). The 
Commissioners may erect public lavatories, conveniences, 
etc. They may also place suitable receptacles iu suitable 
places for the temporary deposit of street sweepings. 
Nuisance must be avoided. 

JVotr.. tty sec. 37 of the P.H.(S.)A. (page 30), the L.A. are 
responsible for any nuisance which may arise in any 
scavenging and cleansing. 

Sec. 111. The Commissioners may cause the streets to 
be watered, and may contract for water, and erect pipes or 
pumps, etc., in any street for this purpose, and for cleansing 
sewers and drains. 

Sec. 112. Empowers the Commissioners to employ 
scavengers. 

Sec. 113. Imposes a penalty of 5 for obstructing a 
scavenger in his work. 

Sec. 114. Imposes a penalty of 2 on anyone other than 
a scavenger removing dust, etc. 

Sec. 115. Common stairs, w. c.s, etc., must be kept clean. 
The S.I. must see that persons occupying houses, flats, or 
storeys, entered by a common stair, keep that part below 
their dwelling clean. 

If any flat be unoccupied, the persons above keep the 
stair clean down to the next occupied flat. 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 89 

(Scave/H/i/iy and Cleansing) 

If the top flat be unoccupied, the person immediately 
below keeps the top flat stair clean. 

The cleansing of w.c.s used in common is performed in 
weekly rotation by the persons using the same. 

Areas and common passages leading to cellars must be 
cleaned weekly by occupiers of the tenements, and by parties 
using, or who have a right to use, such areas, etc. 

Where a common stair enters from or off a street above, 
the occupiers of every house must clean the stair from the 
street, or from the flat above, down to the flat on which 
they live. 

When any flat is unoccupied, the other occupants must 
carry out the cleaning of the stairs, etc. 

The cleaning of unoccupied cellars and apartments is to 
be carried out by the owners or persons in charge. 

The occupiers of every house or building entered from a 
common passage must clean the passage and steps to the 
street in weekly rotation. 

If no occupied house or building be entered from the 
passage, the persons on the flat above must see to the 
cleaning. 

A fine of five shillings is imposed for any offence against 
this section. 

Sec. 116. It is the duty of the Commissioners to clean 
pavements, remove dust, snow, etc. 

Ifotc. The power to make bye-laws is given in the Public Health 
Acts, except that of Scotland. The B.P.A. gives power to 
make bye-laws enforcing the sections regarding cleansing 
(see sec. 127). 

The Model Bye-laws impose the duties on occupiers for 
cleansing the pavements, etc. 

Sec. 117. Common stairs and passages shall be white- 
washed or painted yearly if required by the S.I. If a 

house is let for periods of less than six months, such houses,. 



90 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

and every part and pertinent thereof, shall be white-washed 
at least once every year. Penalty forty shillings. 

Kote. Power of entry is given to the Burgh Surveyor, Inspector 
of Cleansing, M.O.H., and S.I. to all premises believed to 
be dirty. 

They may remove tilth, cleanse and purify at the expense 
of the occupier, or if there be no occupier, at the expense 
of the owner. 

If refused entry they may get warrant from a Magistrate. 

Sec. 120. Penalty for not cleansing courts, yards, etc. 

Courts, yards, areas, etc., not cleansed by scavengers, must 
be cleansed by the occupiers to the satisfaction of the S.I. 
or C.I. If the occupiers fail, the Magistrate may order the 
work to be done at the expense of the occupier, and in 
addition impose a penalty of ten shillings. 

The Commissioners may do the work at the public- 
expense, or, if the property be unoccupied, at the expense 
of the owner. 

Sec. 121. Penalty for not cleansing byres and stables. 

The occupiers of hyres and stables must keep them clean to 
the satisfaction of the S.I., or Inspector of Cleansing. 

Sec. 122. No cattle dung to be deposited on the street 
except for the purpose of removal. Neither shall it be 
mixed with any dust vested in the Commissioners. The 
Inspector of Cleansing may seize and sell any dung so- 
deposited or mixed. 

Sec. 123. The Commissioners may fix times for empty- 
ing dung-steads, after a report from their Chief Constable, 
8. 1., or Inspector of Cleansing. In case of failure to obey,, 
the S.I. may seize the dung and sell it. 

Sec. 124. Fixes time of removing hay, straw, or dung. 

Dung for removal must be deposited before 8 A.M. from 
October to April, and before 7 A.M. from April to October. 
Penalty for failure forty shillings and loss of manure. 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 91 

(Scavenging and Cleansing) 

Sec. 125. Offensive matter shall only be conveyed through 
the Burgh in covered carts at times fixed by the Commissioners. 
Penalty for infringement, or for spilling and neglecting to 
cleanse where spilt or deposited, is forty shillings. 

Note. If the actual offender cannot be found, the driver of the 
cart is to be regarded as offender. 

Sec. 126. Permits the laying down of manure on fields, 
etc. If the M.O.H. certifies, however, that it is offensive 
or prejudicial to health, the Magistrate may order it to be 
removed. 

Failure to comply entails a penalty of 5, and forfeiture 
of the manure. 

Sec. 127. The Commissioners may make bye-laws en- 
forcing the preceding sections referring to cleansing. 

Sec. 154. Commissioners have power to purchase houses 
for additional improvements. 

Note. This may be done not only for the purpose of improvements, 
but also where the houses are built too closely together, or 
are liable to objection on sanitary grounds. The Com- 
missioners may acquire the lands to convert them into open 
spaces. 

Right of appeal to Secretary of Scotland is given to 
aggrieved or aggressors. 

Sec. 166. Plans of new buildings to be lodged with 
Clerk of Commissioners. All plans shall be drawn to a 
graduated scale as follows : 

For buildings under 100 feet long, 1 in. to every 10 feet. 
,, ,, of 100 feet and under 300, 1 in. to every 10 feet. 

,, ,, of 300 ,, upwards, | in. to every 10 feet. 

Note. Sec. 104 B.P.A. 1903 extends the foregoing section. But 
the extension does not interest the student. 

Sec. 167. Plans only to be approved on certain conditions. 

These are that the plans suitably provide for stability, light, 
ventilation, and other sanitary requirements. 



PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



BUILDING REGULATIONS (Sees. 170-176). 

The following sections provide a very complete code of laws 
regulating the erection of buildings. Under the P.H.(S.)A. 
the erection of buildings is regulated entirely by bye-laws 
{see sec. 181 P.H.(S.)A., page 82). These bye-laws are 
modelled on the following sections of the B.P.A., and only 
control buildings in Counties. 

The provisions of the B.P.A., 1903, are- more stringent 
than either the provisions of the 1892 Act, or the model 
bye-laws under the P.H.(S.)A. That part of the 1903 Act 
is, however, adoptive (see page 115). 

Sec. 170. All buildings must have sufficient air space, 
and be sufficiently lighted and ventilated. All the rooms 
of any building erected or altered so as to be used as a 
dwelling-house, must be sufficiently lighted and ventilated 
from an adjoining street or open space directly attached 
thereto, and equal to at least three-fourths of the area occu- 
pied by the building, 

Tliis space must contain no erection save ashpits, w.c.s, 
etc., permitted by the Commissioners, and conforming to the 
rules laid down by them. The Commissioners may allow 
saloons to be erected if these are to be used as places of 
business. 

Note. The minimum space about a building is in this Act different 
from that laid down in the 1903 Act. The 1903 Act in this 
respect is adoptive, and if adopted, this sec. (170) is 
repealed. Sec also sec. 63 of the B.P.A., 1903. 

This is again different from the provisions of the Model 
Bye-laws under the P.H.(S.) Act. 

Sec. 171. Tenements must only contain a certain number 
of houses. A tenement entered from an inside stair must 
contain no more than twelve houses, unless with permission 
of the Commissioners. A tenement with outside stairs and 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 18'J2 93 

(Building Reyulatiunx) 

balconies may contain twenty-four houses. All stairs, pas- 
sages, balconies, and stair-landings must be at least 4 feet 
wide. 

Sec. 172. Lays down a minimum height for various 
rooms. Rooms of premises erected or altered so as to be 
used as a dwelling-house must be at least the following- 
height from floor to ceiling : 

Ground floor rooms, 9 feet 6 inches. 

Attic rooms, 8 feet through at least one-third of the 

area, and nowhere less than 3 feet. 

Other rooms, . 9 feet. 

Note. For cubic capacities of rooms x?f B. P.A., 1903, sec. 66. 

Sec. 173. Lays down a minimum window area. Every 
room must have at least one window. 

The total area of glass must be at least one-tenth the area 
of the room unless Commissioners otherwise direct. 

The top of at least one window must be at least 7 ft. 6 in. 
above the floor. 

In the case of sash-windows, the upper half at least must 
be made to open the full width. Casement windows must 
also open at least one half. 

Note. See sec. 64. B. P.A., 1903 (page 117), regarding the windows 
of sleeping apartments. 

Sec. 174. Common-stair premises must be kept in repair 
by owner to the satisfaction of the surveyor ; and the 
owner must fence all windows on the common-stair or 
passages, if directed to do so. Penalty, 5. 

Sec. 175. Deals with the lighting of exits and entrances 
of public buildings. 

Sec. 176. Smoke and hot-air pipes must be fixed in the 
wall. Pipes in new buildings for conveying smoke or heated, 
air must be fixed in the wall, or as directed by the Com- 
missioners. 



94 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

RULES FOR NEW BUILDINGS (Sees. 177-180). 
(Supplementary to foregoing sections.) . 

Sec. 177. New sites, etc., for buildings. Among other 
matters this section enacts that the site of the intended 
building is to be chig ont to a sufficient depth ; there must be 
a damp proof course of impermeable material, and the whole 
internal area of the site of the building is to be covered with 
asphalte or cement or concrete or suitable material. Sufficient 
ash-pit, w.c. or privy accommodation to be provided. Plumber 
work to be ventilated, trapped, etc., to satisfaction of Com- 
missioners. Private courts, common passages, and common 
areas (other than bleaching greens) to be paved in such a 
way as to afford means for carrying off surface water, etc. 

Note Under sec. 21 of the B.P.A. , 1903, the Commissioners can 
insist upon paving of back courts, etc. 

Sec. 178. Restricts the method of using and affixing 
chimneys for carrying away steam or smoke. 

Sec. 179. Forbids the erection of buildings on made-up 
soil ; that is, on ground filled up with any material impreg- 
nated with fiecal, animal, vegetable, or offensive matter. 

-$ off.. See alse sec. 182 P.H.(S.)A. 

Sec. 180. Provides for the inspection of buildings before 
and after erection, and the granting of certificates of fitness 
for occupation. 

Note. Additional power to test building material used is given in 
sec. 34 of the 1903 Act. 

VENTILATION (Sees. 181-185). 

These sections deal with ventilation in general. 

The Act of 1903 deals with ventilation in detail (see 
page 118). 

Ventilation of factories is dealt with in the F.W.A. 
{page 306). 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 95 

(Ruinmis Buildings and Tenements) 

Ventilation of sewers and drains, sec. 115 P.H.(S.)A. 
(pages 66, 99). 

Ventilation of buildings in Counties is dealt with by the 
P.H.(S.)A. under Bye-laws (sec. 181). 

Sec. 181. Requires the ventilation of churches, halls, 
etc. 

Sec. 182. Owners have power to appeal to the Sheriff or 
Court of Session against the decision of the Commissioners. 

Sec. 183. Rooms of less than 100 ft. area must have 
special ventilation. Every habitable room built after the 
passing of this Act less than 100 superficial feet in area, 
and without a fireplace, must be provided with special 
means of ventilation, as determined by the Commissioners. 

Sec. 184. On Order of the Commissioners every building 
must be ventilated. 

Note. This is not merely a re-enactment of sec. 170, above, but 
means that, if there is a cause shown, the Commissioners 
may order any building, whether erected before or after the 
passing of this Act, to be ventilated. There is a penalty 
for failure to obey of forty shillings for every day of con- 
tinuance. 

Sec. 185. Common stairs and passages to be ventilated 
and lighted by the owners by means of skylights or windows, 
where practicable, to the satisfaction of the Commissioners, 
or their surveyor, or S.I. Penalty for failure to comply, forty 
shillings. 

RUINOUS BUILDINGS AXD TENEMENTS. 

These sections are unimportant, as ruinous buildings, etc., 
are dealt with more fully in the Housing of the Working 
Classes Act (page 267) ; additional power is given to L.A.s 
in the Housing, Town Planning Act (page 282). 

Ruinous buildings may also be dealt with under sec. 16 of 
the P.H.(S.)A. 



96 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 195. Ruinous houses belonging to two or more 
owners to be disposed of in a certain manner, on the peti- 
tion of (a) the Burgh Prosecutor, (i) the Burgh Surveyor, 
(c) the Commissioners, (d) the Sanitary Inspector, or (e) any 
party interested in any house or building which has become 
a receptacle for filth or other nuisance, or unsafe and unfit 
for human habitation. The Sheriff may, if the building 
cannot be disposed of to the satisfaction of all parties, call 
the parties together, and order that the building be valued 
and disposed of by not less than three men of skill. 

Sec. 200. The Commissioners may order any ruinous 
building to be sold, and if this Order be neglected, they 
may apply to the Sheriff, who may have the property valued 
and sold. 



PUBLIC SEWERS (Sees. 215-237). 

These sections are very important. 

The provisions of this Act regarding seweis are similar 
to the provisions of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sees. 101-12.3. 

Sec. 215. All sewers are vested in the Commissioners. 

The Commissioners may purchase the rights and privileges 
of any sewer belonging to any person, but anyone may claim 
a right to use a sewer purchased by the Commissioners, if he 
had acquired perpetual right to such use before the sewer was 
purchased by the Commissioners. 

Note. The following are exempt from the provisions of this sec- 
tion, viz. : 

(a) Branch drains. 

(b) Drains for draining or improving land. 

(c) Sewers constructed under any local or private Act- 
This is similar to sees. 101 and 102 of the P.H.(S.)A. 

Sec. 217. Exceptions to be respected by the Commis- 
sioners. "Without the consent in Avriting of the owners, 
the Commissioners must not use any private sewers, or 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 



interfere witli any stream, river, or water-course, etc. The 
rights of private individuals to drain and improve land, and 
with respect to mills, mines, etc., are to be respected by the 
Commissioners. 

jV<e. There is no .such provision in the P.H.(S.)A., 1897. 

Sec. 218. The Commissioners must form the Burgh into 
one special drainage district ; but 

(a) Existing special drainage districts (S.D.D.s) must he 
maintained till altered with the approval of the Sheriff, 
and subject to the conditions imposed by him. 

(b) With the consent of the Sheriff, and under special cir- 
cumstances, S.D.D.s may be formed. 

(c) The several S D.D.s are to be denned by the surveyor 
on a plan of the Burgh. 

Note. Regarding the formation of a S.D.D., sre sec. 122 of the 
P.H.(S.)A., 1897. 

Sec. 219. The Commissioners must provide proper sewers. 
Main and other sewers necessary for drainage must be pro- 
vided, and sluices must be erected by the Commissioners. 
Sewers may be carried through any land, or through under- 
ground cellars, etc., if necessary, compensation being made 
for any damage done. The refuse from the sewers must be 
carried in proper channels to the most convenient site foi 
collection. 

If the contents of any sewer be diverted from an existing 
outlet, and any person's right so prejudiced, the Commis- 
sioners must make compensation. 

Xo nuisance must be caused during the conveying or 
collection of sewage. 

Note.Xec sec. 103 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897, and notes (page (53). 

Sec. 220. Commissioners must give notice before making 
or altering a sewer. They must also fix a time and place 
where objections may be heard. 

Note. There is no such provision in the P. H.(S. )A., 1897. 

G 



98 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 221. Empowers the Commissioners to hear objec- 
tions, and to abandon or proceed with the work as they 
judge fit, after heaving these. 

Sec. 222. No sewage shall flow into any water-course 
alongside which there is a sewer. Pipes having been laid 
along or in any water-course to collect any sewage which 
might otherwise fall into the water-course, no person must 
introduce sewage or other offensive matter into such water- 
course. 

The Commissioners must allow junctions to be made 
between their pipes and drains from any land or premises. 

Note. This is somewhat similar to the provisions of sec. 110 of 
the P.H.(S.)A. 1897 (page 65). 

Sec. 223. Imposes a penalty of forty shillings on any one 
casting rubbish into streams, or upon their banks. 

Sec. 224. Commissioners may alter any sewers. 

Sec, 225. The Commissioners must not destroy existing 
sewers or drains without providing others for such persons 
as are deprived of the use of such. 

Note. Sec. 25 of the 1903 Act (page 113), enables the Commis- 
sioners to recover costs from the owners of houses served 
thereby. 

Sec. 226. Before making a contract, estimates must be 
prepared for any work in this connection. 

Note. Under sec. 113 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 65), it is 
only necessary to obtain estimates if the work will cost 
30 or over. 

Sec. 227. Penalty for making a drain without consent 
of the Commissioners. A penalty of 5 is imposed on 
any one making a drain without the authority of the 
Commissioners, who may cause the drain to be re-made, and 
recover expenses from the person at fault. 

Note. This is similar to the provisions of sec. 112 of the P. H. (S. )A. , 
1897 (page 66), which imposes a similar penalty for un- 
authorised connection. It is really a breach of the pro- 
visions of sec. 110 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 65). 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 99 

(Public Sewers) 

Sec. 228. No buildings to be erected over sewers. No 
building shall be erected over sewers, and no arch, cellar, or 
vault may be made under the carriage-way of any street 
without written consent from the Commissioners. 

Any such arch, cellar, or vault made contrary to this 
section may be demolished by the Commissioners. 

Note. Tins is the same as sec. 114 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 66). 

Sec. 229. All sewers and drains must be efficiently 
trapped and ventilated. 

Note. Tliis is the same as sec. 115 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 66). 

Sec. 230. Commissioners may acquire land, erect venti- 
lating shafts, etc., for the purpose of ventilating sewers, and 
have power of entry into any premises for this purpose. 

Note. The Commissioners have no power to go outwith their own 
district as granted under the P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sec. 103 
(page 63). 

Sec. 231. Ventilating shafts may be led into factory 
chimneys, or against them, for the purpose of ventilating 
sewers on agreement between the owners and the Commis- 
sioners. 

Sec. 232. Refers to costs and charges. 

Sec. 233. Distillers and manufacturers must construct 
reservoirs in their own premises, and purify their refuse 
before discharging it. If the refuse from a distillery, 
manufactory, or other works is likely to damage the sewer, 
or is likely to be injurious to health, it shall not be allowed 
to flow into any seAver, river, reservoir, dock, etc. 

Note. The owner or occupier of the works must construct 
reservoirs, etc. , as near the works as possible. 

This is similar to sec. 116 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (see 
page 66). 

Sec. 234. Commissioners may permit persons outside 
the district to use their sewers or drains for a sum to be 



100 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

agreed upon by them. The Commissioners indicate how the- 
communications must be made, and the Burgh Surveyor 
superintends the work. 

Note. This section is j)ermissive in its terms, otherwise it is similar 
to sec. Ill of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 65), but under 
the P.H.(S. )A. the L.A. appear to have no power to pro- 
hibit any one from using their sewers. 

Sec. 235. Sewers may be made to discharge below high- 
water mark with the consent of the Board of Trade. 

Note. Sec sec. 119 P.H.(S.)A. 1897 (page 66), which allows of 
discharge only below low-water mark. 

Sec. 236. Commissioners may borrow money for the 
construction of sewers. 

Note. Similar power is given under the P.H.(S. )A., 1897, sec. 139> 
(page 75). 

Sec. 237. Persons aggrieved may appeal to the Sheriff. 



DRAINAGE OF HOUSES (Sees. 238-245). 
These sections are important. 

Sec. 238 (Amended by the B.P.(S.)A., 1903). The Town 
Council direct that all houses shall be drained in a manner 
laid down by them. If any house or building be insuffi- 
ciently drained, and there be a sewer within 100 yards, the 
Council may require the owner to construct a covered branch 
drain of such size, level, and fall as they direct. 

If there be no means of drainage within 100 yards, the 
Council may require the owner to construct a covered cess- 
pool, or other place, and also a branch drain as aforesaid. 

The Council may charge the owner ten shillings for the 
supervision of each connection of a branch drain with their 
sewer. 

If the owner, after requisition from the Council, does not 
commence the work within three weeks, or have it finished 
within six weeks (or other time as the Council may direct), 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 101 

(Drainage, of Houses) 

the Council may do the work in default and recover 
expenses. 

All expenses incurred by the Council under this clause 
may be recovered from the owner as private improvement 
expenses. 

y tc.This section is similar to sec. 120 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 
(page ti~). which see and notes thereto. 

The cesspool must not be below a house (see Appendix). 

Sec. 239 (Amended by the B.P.A., 1903). No house to be 
built on lower level than the sewer. This section practi- 
cally includes the previous (sec. 238), but adds that no 
house should Vie built on a lower level than will allow of 
the sewage therefrom to flow into some sewer of the Council. 
It further gives power to the Council to close up any faulty 
cesspool. Xo cesspool shall be constructed w r ithin 100 feet of 
any dwelling-house, or within 200 feet of any well, spring, or 
water supply, without the consent of the Council in writing. 
Note. There is no provision in the P. H.(S. )A. itself regarding 
the building of houses on a lower level than a sewer, but 
this is dealt with in bye-laws made under the P.H.(S. )A. 

Sec. 240. Rebuilt houses must have sufficient space 
below the level of the lowest floor to allow of the intro- 
duction of a drain under it. 

Sec. 241. Drains must be efficiently trapped and venti- 
lated. The Commissioners, if they desire it, may direct 
the method of so doing. 

Aufe. This is the same as sec. 115 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 
(page Gt>). S- see. 103 of the 1903 Act (page 127), 
for definition of drain. 

Sec. 242. Branch drains, cesspools, etc., are under the 
control and survey of the Commissioners. The owners, 
however, must keep them in good order. 

Note. This means practically that the Commissioners have power 
of entry, and may direct the construction of cesspools, etc., 
as already enacted in sec. 238 B.P.A., 1902 (page 100). and 
in the following sec. 



102 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 243. Surveyor has power to open up ground to 
inspect drains. The Surveyor may, or when requested by 
the M.O.H. or S.I. must, inspect any drain, cesspool, etc., 
and has power of entry to all premises, and power to open 
up ground, etc. If the drains are found in good condition,, 
the ground must be closed, and all expenses paid by the- 
Commissioners. 

A branch drain opened up for repairs shall not be 
covered over till inspected by the Surveyor (who must do- 
so within twenty-four hours of receiving notice from the 
owner). Penalty 5, and the Commissioners may order the 
drain to be re-opened. 

Nvte. There is no provision in the P. H.(S.)A. , 1897, regarding 
the closing up of a drain opened for repairs before inspection 
by the Surveyor. 

In the P. H. (S).A., sec. 18, similar terms are cited for 
the making good of damage done in course of opening up 
of drains. 

Sec. 244. Penalty for constructing a drain or cesspool 
contrary to this Act. Besides a penalty of 5 for con- 
structing, re-constructing, or unstopping any drain or 
cesspool contrary to this Act, the Commissioners may alter 
or amend the drain as they see fit. 

Note. There is no provision in the P.H.(S.)A., 1897, in terms of 
this section ; but such may be controlled by bye-laws. 

Sec. 245. Any person aggrieved by any of these pro- 
visions may appeal to the Sheriff. 



SOIL PIPES AND WATER-CLOSETS, ETC. (Sees. 246-256). 

Under the P.H.(S.)A., 1897, these are dealt with under 
bye-laws (see page 83). 

Sec. 246 (Amended by sec. 104, B.P.(S.)A., 1903). Owners 
must provide sufficient water-supply and w.-c. accommoda- 
tion. Within one month of receiving notice from the 
Commissioners, the owner of every house, or part thereof, 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 18!>2 103 

(Soil Pipes ami iruter-f'losetx. Etc.] 

occupied l>y a separate family, must introduce such a supply, 
and provide in some window-recess, or other well-ventilated 
place a proper sink. A sufficient w.-c. must also be provided. 
If the Commissioners consider that it is not advisable to 
introduce w.-c.s into each house, they way require the owneis 
of tenements to construct on each flat, or in. some convenient 
place, a sufficient number of w.-c.s for the separate use of 
the inmates of the tenements. They may, however, require 
a sufficient earth-closet accommodation to be provided. 

Note. There is no such provision in the P. H.(S. )A. , 1897, neither 
is there any in the bye -laws framed under it. 

Sec. 247. Water-supply pipes may be carried anywhere. 

The owners of any one or more storeys in a tenement may, 
with the sanction of the Magistrates, have a water-supply pipe 
brought up a common stair, through a common entry, or 
along any wall of the house except the front wall. 

Sec. 248. The soil pipe may be carried through a house 
if necessary. If it is unavoidably necessary, and there are 
two or more houses in a tenement, the owner or occupier 
of each shall allow the soil pipe to be carried through his 
house. The owner and occupier of the lowest storey shall 
permit the soil pipes to be carried through and under the 
same if necessary. 

All owners and occupiers shall, without any claim for 
compensation, permit access to their houses for the con- 
struction or repair of such work. 

All such work must be done at the sight of the Surveyor, 
and the sanction of the Magistrates must be obtained before 
beginning it. 

Note. There is no such provision in the P.H.(S. )A., 1897. 

Sec. 249. A penalty of 40s. for introducing into a soil- 
pipe or cesspool anything likely to choke it (ashes, etc.). 



104 1TBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 250. Waste-water pipes may be erected on any 
wall or in common stair. This with the sanction of the 
Magistrates. The \v.-c. pipe must be trapped. If there is 
no drain, the owner may construct one. ( hvners of the 
storeys defray all expenses. 

Sec. 251. The Commissioners shall direct as to the 
construction of water-closets. The situation, dimensions, 
materials, and construction of every water or earth-closet, or 
privy, shall be subject to the approval of the Commissioners. 
Every w.-c. constructed after the passing of this Act, must 
(!) Have one of its sides on an external wall. 

(2) Have a window of at least t> feet area to open one half 
of its extent. 

(3) The cistern supplying the w. -c. shall supply nothing else. 

In w.-c.s constructed before the passing of this Act, the 
Commissioners may require the owners to comply with the 
above provisions. 

Persons aggrieved may appeal to the Sheriff. 

Note. This is dealt with in bye-laws under the P.H.(S. )A., 1897 
(page 83). 

Sec. 252. The Commissioners shall direct as to the 
construction of cesspools. These are only allowed when 
unavoidable. 

They must be water-tight, covered over, and ventilated. 

Sec. 253. The Commissioners shall direct as to the 
construction of ashpits, as regards situation, dimensions, 
mode of access, etc. They must be sufficiently large to 
contain the dry refuse likely to accumulate between the 
visits of the scavengers. 

No person other than the owner or occupier must use the 
ashpit. Penalty, 40s. 

Sec. 254. The Commissioners may direct the closure 
of old ashpits near rooms. The owner must, within one 
month of receiving a notice from the Commissioners, remove, 
cleanse, or build up any such ashpit. 



BUKGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 105 

(Supply of Water) 

Sec. 255. The Commissioners direct what shall be done 
in event of any ashpit or privy becoming a nuisance. On 

a certificate from the M.O.H. they may order its reconstruc- 
tion, removal, replacement, repair, or remedy. 

Note. They may order the owner to replace a privy by a \v. -c. or 
earth -closet. 

Sec. 256. The Commissioners may order the owner of 
any public-house, eating-house, etc. , to provide and main- 
tain adequate w.-c. and urinal accommodation. Failure to 
comply entails a daily penalty of 5s. Failure to cleanse at 
least once every twenty-four hours entails a penalty of 40s. 

Note. There is no such provision in the P.H. (S.)A. or its bye-laws. 

SUPPLY OF WATER (Sees. 257-269). 

The T.H.(S.)A., 1897, deals with the water supply in 
districts other than Burghs, hut in sec. 124 (page 69) it 
makes provision for the working of the B.P.A. in Burghs. 

Sec. 257. The Commissioners may supply water gratui- 
tously to public cisterns, fountains, pumps, etc. They may 
maintain such, or substitute similar works, or they may erect 
other public cisterns for the gratuitous supply of water. All 
these are vested in the Commissioners. 

JVote. The water may be carried away by any person, but not for 
sale. 

Sec. 258. The Commissioners may contract for a water 
supply with the owners of any water-works. Such contract 
must be for a period of less than three years. 

Sec. 259. Deals with the method of ascertaining the 
price to be paid for water. 

Sec. 260. The Commissioners may place fire-cocks upon 
any water-pipes of any water company within the Burgh. 



106 I'UBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 261. The Commissioners may erect water-works, 
reservoirs, etc., in order to supply the Burgh with water. 

Note.. Similar power is given to the L.A. in other districts by sec. 
126 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 70). 

Sec. 262. The Commissioners may, under certain cir- 
cumstances, acquire land for the purpose of a water-supply 
scheme. If the population of the Burgh is less than 5000, 
and it is necessary for them to acquire land, they may, 
instead of proceeding under the P.H.A., petition the Sheriff 
and obtain his authority to acquire land under the Land* 
Clauses Act. 

Note. See sec. 124 P.H.(S.)A., (page 69), and notes. 

Sec. 263. Owners must provide service-pipes connecting 
their houses with the water main. If the owners refuse to 
do so, the Commissioners may enter the premises and do the 
work in default. 

Note. Wherever practicable all domestic water-supply should be 
taken direct from the main or service-pipe, and not from 

cisterns. 

Sec. 264. Water to be used for domestic purposes only, 

unless otherwise permitted by the Commissioners. 

The Commissioners may dispose of any excess for public 
baths, etc., on terms to be agreed upon. 

Note. See sec. 126 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 70). 

Sec. 265. Defines what does not constitute "domestic" 
water as follows : Water for cattle, horses, for washing 
carriages, for steam-engines, or railway purposes, for warming 
or ventilating public buildings, or for working any machine 
for trade, manufacture, or business purposes, for watering 
gardens, for fountains, for public baths, wash-houses, or for 
any ornamental purpose whatever. 

Sec. 266. The Commissioners may erect and maintain, 
public drinking fountains or troughs in any public place. 
Note. This is similar to sec. 257 of this Act. 



re 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 107 

(Slaughter-Houses) 

Sec. 267. Incorporates certain provisions of the Water- 
works Clauses Acts, 1847 and 1863, and any Act amend- 
ing them. 

Sec. 268. The Commissioners may make bye-laws 
jgulating all matters connected with their water-supply. 

Sec. 269. Exception to the provisions of these sections. 

These provisions do not apply in the case <>f any Burgh 
which is or may he supplied with water under a local Act 
before 31st December 1894. 



SLAUGHTER-HOUSES (Sees. iTh-^D. 

Slaughter-houses are dealt with in the l'.H.(S.)A., 1897 
as offensive trades (sees. 32-37, page 26), and are dealt with 
as such under bye-laws. The B.P.A. deals specifically with 
slaughter-houses in its provisions, and also by bye-laws 
similar to those under the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 The following 
sections dealing with slaughter-houses are given as amended 
by the B.P.(S.)A., 1903. 

Nvtr. That the P.H.(S.)A. (sec. 34, page 28) controls the erection, 
etc., of slaughter-houses outside of Burghs. 

Sec. 278. The Commissioners may erect slaughter-houses. 

This they may do within or without the Burgh, and they 
may borrow money for the purpose. 

Note. If refused a licence under sec. 33 P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 27), 
the Town Council may appeal against the refusal of the 
L.A. to the L.G. B., whose decision is final. 

Sec. 279. Repealed by the B.P.(S.)A., 1903. 

Sec. 280. The M.O.H. must report twice yearly on the 

sanitary condition of all slaughter-houses licensed by the 



1'UBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Commissioners under the P.H.(S.)A., 1897. The M.O.H. or 
any officer appointed has power of entry. 

Sec. 281. The Commissioners may make bye-laws 

which must be confirmed with regard to 

(1) The registering, the regulating, and inspecting of 
slaughter-houses. 

(2) The prevention of cruelty in slaughter-houses. 

(3) The keeping of these in a cleanly and proper state. 

(4) The removal of tilth at least once every twenty-four 
hours. 

(5) The proper flooring, draining, and water-supply of 
slaughter-houses. 

The Commissioners may impose a penalty for offences not 
exceeding 5, and for continuance 10s. a day (see also 
page 208). 

Sec. 282. A penalty may be imposed and the licence 
suspended for killing or dressing cattle contrary to the 
provisions of this Act and its bye-laws. 

Note. The licence is suspended for two months. 

For a subsequent offence the licence may lie entirely revoked. 

Sec. 283. Imposes a penalty of 5 for using a slaughter- 
house during a suspension of licence. 

Sec. 284. (Amended by the B.P.A., 1903.) No other 
place than the public slaughter-house shall be used within 
the Burgh if the Commissioners have provided one, unless 
by a person who keeps cattle and kills them for his own or 
family consumption. Penalty for contravention, 5. 

JVolc. The Commissioners may charge a reasonable sum for the 
use of their slaughter-house. Any person slaughtering 
cattle within two miles of the Burgh and selling the carcase 
within the Burgh, shall be charged as if he had slaughtered 
the animal in the public slaughter-house. No other 
slaughter-house may now be erected within two miles of 
the Burgh unless with the consent of the Commissioners, 
or unless it is provided by another L.A. who must lirst 
notify the Town Council. The Town Council may appeal 
against it to the L.G.B. 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 109' 

(Bye-Laws) 

Sec. 285 (Amended by the B. P. A. , 1903). Places of deposit 
for horse-carcases must be licensed. The Commissioners 
may grant or recall such licences at pleasure. 

No dead horse shall be conveyed within the Burgh unless 
the carcase is sufficiently covered. Penalty for contraven- 
tion, 10, and for continuance a daily penalty of 2. 

Sec. 286. Provides that the Contagious Diseases Animals 
Acts, 1875 and 1890, and any orders or regulation made 
thereunder, shall not be interfered with. 

Sec. 287. The provisions of the Cattle Sheds in Burghs 
(Scotland) Act, 1866, and any amending Acts, may be en- 
forced by the Magistrates. 

BYE-LAWS (Sees. 31t>-324). 

The provisions as to bye-laws are practically the same as 
those contained in the P.H.(S.)A. The Commissioners may 
make bye-laws in respect to the following matters : 

(1) All places where horses are killed and carrion is kept 
or sold, keeping such places in a cleanly and proper 
state, and removing tilth therefrom. All such places 
must have adequate paving, drainage, and water-supply. 

(2) For removing the contents of ashpits, cesspools, privies, 
etc., within reasonable periods. For preventing foul 
water from soaking from any house or building, and for 
preventing any cesspool, dung-stead, ashpit, etc., from 
being a nuisance. 

(3) For inspecting and periodical cleansing of cisterns for 
the use of two or more families. 

(4) For regulating the time and mode of removal of any 
offensive matter. 

(5) For regulating the keeping of depots of bones, carrion, 
rags, or other offensive matter. 

(6) For reducing or removing the noxious or injurious 
effects attending any offensive trade. 

(7) For providing that cattle, dogs, and poultry shall not 
be kept in such place or state as to be a nuisance or 
annoyance to the inhabitants. 

For prescribing the places in which swine may be kept, 
and for 2^'oJn'biting, on cause shown, the keeping of 
swine. Sen also sec. 35 P. H.(S. }A. 



110 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(8) For requiring owners or occupiers of houses and build- 
ings to keep clean closets, areas, courts, passages, 
stairs, roofs of outhouses, and common w.-c.s, and 
thoroughfares owned or occupied by them, and also for 
the paving of private courts, common passages, and 
common areas other than bleaching greens. 

(9) For regulating the sweeping and cleansing of common 
stairs in accordance with the sections of this Act relat- 
ing to cleansing, and fencing and keeping the same 
clear of obstruction. 

(10) For carrying out the provisions of the sections dealing 
with the drainage of houses, viz., sees. 238-256. 

EXECUTION OF WORK POWER OF ENTRY (Sees. 325-326). 

Sec. 325. Gives the Commissioners or their officers 
power of entry to any premises. 

Sec. 326. Imposes a penalty of 5 on any one obstruct- 
ing the Commissioners or their officers in the execution of 
their duty. 

EXECUTION OF WORK BY OWNERS OR OCCUPIERS. 

Sec. 327. Wherever any owner or occupier makes default 
in executing any work required by the provisions of this 
Act, the Commissioners may cause it to be done, and re- 
cover costs from the person at fault. 

FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICES. 
Sees. 336-338 deals with the various notices. 

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES (Sees. 381-432). 

Sec. 381. A penalty of 40s. is imposed upon any person 

who 

(a) Throws any dust, litter, ashes, night soil, carrion, fish, 
offal, or rubbish on any street, back area, or court, 
except for the purpose of immediate removal, or on 
any place, or strand, or sea-beach down to low-water 
mark, or into the channel, or on the banks of any 
river, or into any harbour within the Burgh ; or 
causes or allows any such matter, solid or liquid, to 
fall or run on any street, or lays down salt on any 
street or footway in time of snow. 



BUEGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1892 111 

(Offences and Penalties) 

The laying down of sand or other material in time of 
frost to prevent accident, or litter or other material 
to prevent freezing of pipes, or to prevent noise in 
case of sickness shall not be deemed to be an offence, 
if the person laying them down causes them to be 
removed as soon as the occasion for them ceases. 

(b) Keeps any swine near any dwelling-house so as to be a 
nuisance or annoyance to the residents or passengers. 

(c) Accumulates within any enclosure, area, house, build- 
ing, garret, cellar, or other apartment any dung, soil, 
dirt, ashes, filth, or other offensive matter. 

Sec. 384. A penalty of 40s. and a daily penalty of 5 for 
continuance of smoke nuisance. The above penalty is im- 
posed upon any person who : 

Causes, permits, or suffers any furnace to be used (except 
a household lire), so that smoke issues therefrom, unless he 
proves that he took the best practicable means to prevent 
the escape of smoke. 

This section applies to steamers plying upon any river 
or estuary within the jurisdiction of the Commissioners. 

Nothing in this Act is to extend to or interfere with the 
proper workings of mines, or of processes connected with 
smelting of ores or minerals, the calcining or puddling or 
rolling of iron or other metal, or the conversion of pig into 
wrought iron. 

Note. Sec sec. 16, sub-sec. 9 and 10 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897. 

This is also dealt with in the Smoke Nuisance Abatement 
Act. 

Sec. 389. Imposes a penalty of 40s. on any person who 
keeps a dog, fowl, or other animal so as to be a nuisance, or 
to the annoyance, of any of the inhabitants in the neigh- 
bourhood, and who does not remove the cause within the 
time fixed by the Magistrate. 

Sec. 428. Power to seize any animal suspected of in- 
fectious disease is given to any constable, collector, or 
inspector, when such animal is brought through any street, 
or market, or offered for sale. 



112 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

The seizure must be taken to V.S. for examination. 

The seizure must be reported to a Magistrate. 

The Magistrate hears evidence and directs what should 
be done with the animal. 

He may order it to be returned, or to be destroyed along 
with any pen, litter, hay, etc., likely to have become 
infected. 

A penalty of 20 is imposed on any one attempting to- 
bring through any street, market, or fair, any animal which 
he knows to be suffering from such disease The Con- 
tagious Diseases (Animals) Act (page 322), deals with the 
special diseases for which animals may be seized. 

Sec. 429. The original seller of an infected animal is. 
liable to be prosecuted. Where any person has been con- 
victed of having in his possession any unsound or diseased 
animal or meat unfit for food, the person from whom he 
originally obtained the animal, etc., is liable to be prosecuted. 

Nofti.Hee, also sec. 43 of the P.H.(S.)A. (page 33). 

Sec. 432. The Commissioners of the Burgh are the 
L.A. under the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, and 
also under the Regulation of Bakehouses Act, 1863 ; and 
all offences under these Acts may be tried before the 
Magistrates under complaint of the Public Prosecutor. 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1903. 

This is an Act to amend the law relating to the admini- 
stration of Burghs in Scotland. 

By sec. 4 the Act is divided into three parts : 

Part I. General. 

Part II. Adoptive. 

Part III. Miscellaneous and Supplemental. 

In Part I. sees. 21, 23 to 26, 33, 53 and 54 need only be> 
considered. 

In Part II. (which is adoptive) sees. 61 and 63 to 68 and. 
82 to 93 need only be considered. 

In Part III. sees. 98 and 103 need only be considered.. 

For definitions used in this Act, see sec. 103. 



BURGH 1'OLICK (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1!>03 113 

PART I.-BUILDINGS, SEWERS, etc. 

(Sees. 21-35.) 

Sec. 21. L.A. may require back courts to be paved. 

The Town Council can call upon owner or owners of, as 
entitled to the use of any private court, close, passage, or 
area (other than a bleaching-green, garden or shrubbery) 
attached to and used in common by two or more occupiers 
of any tenement of dwelling-houses, to pave same (if not 
already done to satisfaction of Council), to maintain, renew, 
or extend same with such material and to such extent as 
they may require. Also to make and maintain drainage 
for surface water as Council may require, when more than 
one owner is interested in cost. Any one may apply to have 
cost apportioned. If the owners do not do work Town 
Council may, and apportion expenses as they think just. 

Sec. 23. Owners may be required to supply occupiers 
with receptacles for rubbish. If any house or part of a 
house is without sufficient fixed or movable receptacle for 
rubbish, the Town Council may serve a notice 011 the owner 
requiring him to provide such receptacle within seven days, 
and to place it in the position specified in the notice. 

Sec. 24. Refers to penalties. 

Sec. 25. The Town Council may abandon any sewer, and 
recover from owner the costs of connecting his drains to 
the new sewer laid down. The T.C. may make such 
alterations or repairs as are necessary in the old drains, or 
may even lay down new drains of vsuch materials, size, and 
levels as they see fit, and recover costs. 

Sec. 26. The duty of the Dean of Guild Court regarding 
premises for noxious business. The Dean of Guild Court 
shall not grant decree of lining for erection, alteration, or 

II 



114 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

enlarging of "buildings, with a view to establishment of any 
noxious business, till satisfied that the Town Council have 
given their sanction, when such sanction is required under 
the provisions of any Act of Parliament. 

Sec. 33. Power of entry during the erection of buildings. 

The Burgh Surveyor, or any inspector appointed by him or 
by the Town Council, or any man of skill appointed by the 
Dean of Guild Court, may at any reasonable time enter and 
inspect any buildings being executed under decree of the 
Dean of Guild Court. 

Penalty for obstruction 5, but all officers must exhibit 
their authority, if called upon to do so. 

Sec. 53. Prevention of unnecessary noise during illness. 

It shall- not be lawful for any person in any common stair, 
passage, or back court within the Burgh, in which a notice 
signed by a diily qualified medical practitioner has been 
posted in a conspicuous position intimating the existence of 
serious illness, to make any unnecessary noise which might 
be hurtful to any person suffering from such serious illness 
in any dwelling-house entering therefrom. 

Sec. 54. Manufacture and sale of ice-cream. Ice-cream 

or other similar commodity is not to be made, sold, or 
stored in any room in which there is an inlet or outlet 
to a drain. 

Manufacturer must not expose such commodity to in- 
fection or contamination, nor must he omit to take proper 
precautions against infection, etc. 

He must notify the M.O.H. upon the outbreak of infectious 
disease. Penalty not exceeding .2. If any one in a 
building used for the manufacture of ice-cream or similar 
commodity is suffering from infectious disease, the M.O.H. 
has power to seize and destroy materials used in such 
manufacture. Compensation to be paid for articles destroyed. 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1903 115 

PART II. -ADOPTIVE 

STREETS AND BUILDINGS. 

Sec. 61. Width of streets and height of buildings. 

This section repeals sec. 152 of the Act of 1892, and enacts 
instead that 

(1) No new street or court shall be less than sixty feet wide, 
of which forty feet shall be set apart for carriage-way 
and foot-ways. 

No house in the street or court shall exceed in height 
one and a quarter the width of the street (measured 
from the level of the street to the ceiling of the highest 
habitable room). 

(2) Mews and lanes are to be excepted, and may be fifteen 
feet wide, but no house fronting on these shall exceed 
in height one and a half times their width. 

(3) If a building abuts on two streets or courts, the height 
of the house shall be measured from the higher street 
or court, and the height of the building shall be 
regulated by the width of the wider street or court. 

Sec. 63. Open space about new buildings. This section 
repeals sec. 170 of the Act of 1892, and in its place the 
following section shall have effect. 

Every new building intended to be used in whole or in 
part as a dwelling-house, and every building not previously 
so used, when the same is altered for the purpose of being 
so used, shall (subject as hereinafter provided) have 
immediately adjoining it on the further side of the building 
from that fronting on the street on which it abuts, an open 
space for light and ventilation equal in breadth, at the 
narrowest part, to the height of the building (measured 
from the floor of the lowest room to be occupied as a 
dwelling-house to where the roof of the building rests upon 
the Avail), and extending along the whole length of the 
side of the building which such space subtends. 



116 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

The said space may consist in whole or in part either of 

(ft) A public street, lane, or court. 

(ft) A private street, lane, or court, or other vacant space, 
over which a servitude exists in favour of the ground 
occupied by the proposed new building or building' 
altered as aforesaid, entitles the owner thereof to insist 
that it shall be always kept open and unbuilt upon, 
except as regards the conveniences after mentioned : 
or of 

(c) Ground belonging to the said building which he under- 
takes to keep vacant except as regards such con- 
veniences : or of 

(rl) Ground which in the opinion of the Dean of Guild 
Court is not likely to be built on in such a manner as. 
to exclude or restrict light and ventilation. 

No building of any kind shall he erected upon such open 
space above the level of the floor of the lowest room to- 
be occupied as a dwelling-house or part thereof, other than 
the sloping roof of any saloon used for business premises 
situated below the level of the said floor, or other than the 
water-closets, privies, ashpits, coal-houses, washing-houses, 
or other similar conveniences attached to dwelling-houses. 
These conveniences shall not exceed fifteen feet in height- 
The Dean of Guild Court shall determine the size and site 
of these provided that 

(1) In the case of any building or part of a building 
situated within sixty feet of the junction of the 
building lines of any two streets or courts, the pro- 
visions of this section shall be modified to such extent 
as shall in the opinion of the Dean of Guild Court be 
necessary, to permit the corner stance to be built upon. 

(2) In the case of any new building erected on the site of 
any building used at the date when this section comes- 
into force, the provisions of this section shall be subject 
to the modification that, where the said new building 
does not exceed the limits of the old building as regards- 
height, breadth, and length, and the open space in 
rear of it is at the said date less than or of a different 
character from that required by this section, the owner 
shall not be required to provide additional open space. 

(3) In the event of any one or more flats in any building 
ceasing to be occupied as dwelling-houses, the owner of 
the open space adjoining such building may (if other- 
wise entitled to do so, and the building upon the same- 



K'E (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1003 117 

(Streets and Buildings) 

will not interfere with the open space required for any 
other building), build upon the said open space up to 
the level of the floor of the lowest flat still occupied as 
a dwelling-house, but the part of the building below 
such level shall not be again used as a dwelling-house 
except upon removal of such additional buildings. 

Sec. 64. The windows of rooms let as sleeping apart- 
ments must have sufficient free space in front of them. 
It shall not be lawful for any owner to let as a sleeping 
apartment, or for any person to hire, use, or suffer to he 
used as a sleeping apartment, any room unless there be in 
front of at least one half of every window of such room, an 
open space, beyond any obstruction or impediment from 
overhanging balconies, of a breadth equal to at least three- 
fourths of the height of the wall in which the window is 
placed, measuring such space in a straight line from, and at 
right angles to, the plane of the windoAV, and measuring such 
wall from the floor of the room to where the roof of the 
building rests upon such Avail. Provided that 

(1) This enactment shall not be held to be contravened in 
the case of any room having two or more windows, 
one of which contains the area of glass required by 
sec. 173 of the Act of 1892 (page 93), viz., one-tenth 
the area of the room, etc., and has in front of at least 
one half thereof an open space as above specified. 

(2) AVhere any room, prior to the adoption of this section 
used as a sleeping apartment, is wholly or partly below 
the level of the street or other open ground which the 
window faces. The open space required by this section 
so far as below the said level, need not bo of greater 
width than the distance from the surface of the floor to 
the said level. 

(3) Notwithstanding that any room used as a sleeping 
apartment in any existing building does not comply 
with this section, it may, for the period of two years 
from the date when this section comes into force, 
continue to be so used, and the Town Council may on 
the application of the owner, and after a report by 
the M.O.H. and Burgh Surveyor as to the fitness of 
the room for use as a sleeping apartment, pass a 
resolution extending the said period to such date as 



118 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

they may fix. The owner may appeal against any 
refusal or delay for more than a month to pass such 
resolution, in terms of sec. 339 of the Act of 1892. 
(4) This section shall not apply to any room, at or prior to 
the adoption thereof, legally used as a sleeping apart- 
ment, and contained in any building erected within the 
Burgh since the commencement of the Act of 1892, 
and in conformity with the provisions of that Act. 

Penalty five shillings daily for each room. 

Sec. 65. Bed recesses must be kept open for three-fourths 
of their entire length. It shall not be lawful in any 
dwelling-house to make any new enclosed bed or bed-recess 
which is not open in front for three-fourths of its length, and 
from floor to ceiling (with the exception only of carrying- 
beams). No building, which contains any enclosed bed or 
bed-recess, shall be altered so as to increase the number of 
dwelling-houses or occupiers in such building, unless all such 
enclosed beds and bed-recesses therein are opened up to the 
extent aforesaid. 

Sec. 66. Lays down a minimum cubic capacity for 
dwelling-houses new or rebuilt. No dwelling-house shall 
hereafter be erected, provided, or constructed in any new 
or existing building, and no dwelling-house shall be altered 
so as to be (exclusive of any lobbies, closets, presses and 
recesses) of less than the following dimensions, viz. 

Dwelling-houses of one apartment 1000 cubic feet. 

Dwelling-houses of two apartments 1600 cubic feet. 

Dwelling-houses of three apartments 2400 cubic feet. 
Provided that 

(1) The provisions of this section shall not prevent the 
restoration, according to the original plan, of dwelling- 
houses destroyed by tire, unless the building is destroyed 
or taken down to within fifteen feet of the level of the 
street. 

(2) Where it is proposed to alter an existing dwelling-house 
so as to increase its dimensions, it shall lie in the power 
of the Town Council to permit said alteration, though 
the increase may not be sufficient to bring the dimen- 
sions up to the above scale. 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1903 119 

(Streets and Buildings) 

(3) This section shall not apply to the erection, provision, 
construction, or alteration of any dwelling-house in 
accordance with any warrant of the Dean of Guild 
Court, granted before the date when this section comes 
into force. 

The word recess in this section, and in the section 
immediately following, shall mean and include any 
recess having no separate window, which is not open 
front to back, from floor to ceiling, and from side to 
side, and is not free from fixtures. 

Sec. 67. Houses below the minimum capacity may be 
"ticketed." Any person appointed, in writing, by the Town 
Council may, at any reasonable time, enter any dwelling- 
house which consists of not more than three apartments, 
for the purpose of measuring, in cubic feet, the space < on- 
tained therein (exclusive of lobbies, presses, closets, etc.). If 
the cubic contents thereof do not exceed 2,400 feet, he may 
mark thereon, or attix a ticket on which are marked the 
number of such cubic feet, and the number of persons exceeding 
the age of ten years who (without a breach of this section) 
may sleep therein, reckoning one person for every 400 cubic 
feet. 

Any person who obliterates, defaces, removes, or alters 
such marking or ticket shall be liable to a penalty not exceed- 
ing ten shillings. 

Sec. 68. A penalty is imposed on every person sleeping 
in the room if the number on the ticket is exceeded. If 

any dwelling-house is used for the purpose of sleeping 
therein, by a number of persons greater than is marked or 
ticketed thereon, in pursuance of the provisions of the 
immediately preceding section (every two persons of less 
than ten years of age being reckoned as one person exceeding 
the said age), every person so using the said dwelling-house, 
or suffering the said dwelling-house to be used, shall be liable 
in a penalty not exceeding twenty shillings for every day or 
part of a day during which it is so used. 



120 J'UBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Any persons authorised, in writing, by the Town Council 
(and exhibiting their authority, if called upon to do so) may 
at any time enter any dwelling-house ticketed as aforesaid, 
if they believe that the provisions of the said section are. 
being contravened. 

Sec. 82. Ice-cream shops must be registered. Every per- 
son who shall keep or use, or buffer to be kept or used, any 
bouse, building, or part of a building, or other premises as 
an ice-cream shop or aerated-water shop without being regis- 
tered, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 5, and 5 
daily for continuance after conviction. 

The Town Council must keep a register of ice-cream 
shops, and shall enter therein the names of applicants free of 
charge. 

(1) In this section the expression "ice-cream" shall include 
any preparation sold under the name of ice-cream, or 
any similar title whether containing milk or cream or 
not. 

(2) The Town Council may make bye-laws in regard to hours 
of opening and closing of such premises. 

(3) The Town Council may at any time authorise the in- 
spection of any house, Imilding, or other premises used 
or suspected of being used as an ice-cream shop, and the 
person having charge thereof shall give admission to 
theM.O.H., 8.L, constable, or any other person autho- 
rised, in writing, by the Town Council. The person in 
charge is liable, to a penalty not exceeding 2 if he 
refuses admission to such authorised inspector, after the 
exhibition of his authority. 

Note. See also sec. 54, which deals with contamination, etc., of 
ice-cream or other similar commodity. 



SUPPLY OF MILK FROM DISEASED COAVS (Sees. 83-92). 

Sec. 83. Definitions of terms in these sections. " Dairy/' 
".Dairyman," " District," " Local Authority," " Medical 
Officer," shall respectively have the same meanings as 
under the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 16), and the expression 
"Veterinary Surgeon" shall mean a Member of the Royal 



BURG ii POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1903 121 

( The Supply of Milk from Diseased Cows) 

College of Veterinary Surgeons, approved by the L.A. for the 
purposes of these sections. 

Sec. 84. Tuberculosis of the udder. Penalties for (i) 
selling such milk, (ii) keeping such cows, (iii) failing to 
notify such cows. 

(1) Every person who knowingly sells, or suffers to be sold 

or used for human consumption within the Burgh, the 
milk of any cow which is suffering from tuberculosis of 
the udder, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 10. 

(2) Any person who keeps a cow suffering from tuberculosis 

of the udder in any premises, along with other cows 
whose milk is sold for human consumption, shall be 
liable to a penalty not exceeding 5. 

(3) Every dairyman who supplies milk within the Burgh, 

and who has a cow affected with, or suspected of, or 
exhibiting signs of, tuberculosis of the udder, shall forth- 
with give written notice of the fact to the M.O.H. of the 
district in which the dairy is situated. Failure to give 
notice entails a penalty not exceeding forty shillings. 

Sec. 85. The M.O.H. or authorised person may take 
samples of milk. It shall be lawful for the M.O.H. of the 
Burgh, or any person provided with, and if required, ex- 
hibiting the authority in writing of such M.O.H , to take 
within the Burgh for examination samples of milk produced, 
or sold, or intended for sale, within the Burgh. 

Sec. 86. (1) The M.O.H., if accompanied by a V.S., may 
examine cows, and have any particular teat milked for 
sampling. This section provides as in the preceding section 
for any authorised person examining, if accompanied by a 

T.S. 



122 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(2) The L.A. may require the dairyman to appear before 

them to show cause why an Order should not be made 
requiring him to stop supplying milk within the Burgh. 
This the L.A. can do on a combined report from the 
M.O.H. andV.S. 

(3) The L.A. may order milk supply to be stopped from such 

dairy, and must notify the L.G.I), of the fact. This if 
the dairy be situated in the Burgh, and if the dairy- 
man fails to show cause why such Order should not be 
made. 

(4) The L.A. may withdraw such Order, if they are satisfied 

that the milk supply has been changed, and is not now 
likely to cause tuberculosis to persons residing in the 
Burgh. 

Sec. 87. Suspected dairy outside the Burgh. 

(1) The Burgh M.O.H. intimates to the M.O.H. of suspected 

district. If the M.O.H. of the Burgh has reason to- 
believe that milk from any dairy outside the Burgh is 
likely to cause tuberculosis in persons residing within 
the Burgh, he shall forthwith intimate the same to the 
M.O.H. of the suspected district. 

The M.O,H. of the suspected district (or other autho- 
rised person) accompanied by a V.S. is bound to 
examine the cows in the suspected dairy, and he may 
require any particular teat to be milked for sampling. 

Note. The suspected L.A. usually notify the complaining M.O.H. 
when the examination is to take place, so that he may be 
present. The M.O.H. of the suspected district furnishes 
two reports (i) to his own L.A. ; (ii) to the Burgh L.A. 

(2) The L.A. of suspected district hold a meeting, and may 

order stoppage of milk supply from that dairy. If 

they order the dairyman to stop supplying milk, they 
must serve notice of the facts on the L.G.B. and on the 
Burgh L.A. 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1903 123 

(The Supply of Milk from Diseased Cows) 

(3) If the suspected district is not a Burgh, it is not compe- 

tent to appeal to the County Council against any pro- 
ceedings or Order of that district L.A. 

(4) If the supply of milk is stopped, the L.A. of the sus- 

pected district must notify the L.A. of every district 
where the milk is sold. 

(5) Before the Order is withdrawn, notice is sent to the 

Burgh L.A., and an opportunity given them of sub- 
mitting evidence for or against the withdrawal of the 
notice. 

Note. Now that pulmonary tuberculosis is held to be a notifiable 
disease, the foregoing sections ought to be studied with sec. 
60 P.H.(S.)A. (page 43). 

Sec. 88. (1) Penalty for supplying milk while Order is in 
force. If any person, after an Order under either of the 
two preceding sections has been made, supplies milk, 
etc., he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 5, 
and for continuance a daily penalty of forty shillings. 

(2) A dairyman shall not be liable to an action for breach 

of contract if the breach is due to an Order under the 
two preceding sections. 

(3) The dairyman and his employees must render all assist- 

ance to the M.O.H. and V.S., in pursuance of their 
duties under the two preceding sections. Penalty for 
refusal or for obstruction, 5. 

(4) Persons aggrieved may appeal to the Sheriff in a sum- 

mary manner. The Sheriff's decision is final, and 
pending the disposal of any such appeal, the Order- 
shall remain in force. 

Sec. 89. The dairyman, if not in default himself, may 
recover compensation for any damage which he has sustained 
on account of the Order. The Sheriff decides- 



124 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 90. Expenses incurred by the L.A, in pursuance of 
these sections shall be chargeable 011 the Public Health 
General Assessment. 

Sec. 91. The Town Council must advertise the provisions 
of these sections before adoption. The T.C. shall cause to 
be given public notice of the effect of the provisions of this 
Act relating to the " Supply of milk from diseased cows," by 
handbills or otherwise, and in newspapers circulating within 
the district, at least one month before such provisions come 
into force. 

Sec. 92. Penalties imposed by any section of this Act 
under the heading " Supply of milk from diseased cows " 
shall be recoverable in any Court having summary jurisdic- 
tion where the dairy in question is situated, at the instance 
of the L.A. or any public prosecutor in such Court. 



BYE-LAWS. 

Sec. 93. The Town Council may from time to time make 
bye-laws, and repeal, alter, or amend any bye-laws so made 
for any of the purposes after-mentioned, viz. : 

(1) The drainage of sub-soil of sites for, and prevention of 
dampness in buildings for habitation : 

(2) The strength and stability of the walls, joisting, and 
principal iron and wood-work of buildings : 

(3) The structure and form of walls, foundations, floors, 
hearths, staircases, stair-railings, passages, roofs, and 
chimneys of buildings : 

(4) Projections over streets, ornaments upon buildings over- 
hanging the walls of such buildings, recesses in the 
walls, and openings in party and cross-walls : 

(5) The erection, stability, maintenance, inspection, and 
removal of scaffolding, cranes, barricades, hoardings, 
platforms, and balconies, and the dimensions, position, 
and use of the same : 

(6) The regulation, control, and use of advertising hoard- 
ings, and similar structures exceeding 12 feet in height : 



BURGH POLICE (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1903 12f) 

(Bye- Lairs) 

(7) The erection of walls or other fences forming divisions 
between courts, back courts, and areas : 

(8) Provision against the risk of tire in buildings, and for 
means of escape from tire : 

(9) The ventilation of, and admission of light to buildings : 

(10) The construction and arrangement of the drainage of 
buildings, and of soil pipes and waste pipes, and the 
construction and position of w.-c.s. earth-closets, 
privies, ashpits, cesspools, dung-steads, slop-sinks, and 
rain-water pipes and rhones : 

(11) The level, construction, causewaying, and paving of 
streets and of the footways thereof, and provision for 
drainage of surface-water therefrom, and the provision 
of lanes or other secondary means of access, where neces- 
sary for the removal of refuse : 

(12) The protection of trees, shrubbery, or ornamental or 
other grounds in or adjacent to streets : 

(18) The due inspection of buildings in course of erection or 
structural alteration, the examination of the drains 
thereof, and the pulling down, alteration, or amend- 
ment of any work which has been carried out in contra- 
vention of lawful requirements, and which the Town 
Council are entitled to pull down, alter, or amend. 

All such bye-laws shall be enforceable by such penalties as 
may be prescribed therein, not exceeding 5 for each con- 
travention, and in other respects shall be subject to the same 
conditions and provisions as bye-laws made by the Town 
Council under the principal Act, or any Local Building or 
Police Act as the case may be. The said bye-laws shall be 
consistent with the law of Scotland, and with any provisions 
as to the above matters contained in the Burgh Police Acts 
(or Local Building or Police Act as the case may be), the 
P.H.(S.)A., 1897, or any other public general Act. 



126 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

PART III. -MISCELLANEOUS AND SUPPLEMENTAL 

(Sees. 98 and 103.) 

Sec. 98 (l).-Part I. of this Act shall (subject as hereinafter 
provided) apply to every Burgh to which the principal 
Act is applicable. 

(2) Part II. of this Act shall apply to any such Burgh only 
if, and so far as, the Town Council shall resolve, by 
special Order as defined in the principal Act, to adopt 
Part II. of this Act in whole or in part ; and a Town 
Council may, by such resolution, adopt any section or 
sections of Part II. Any such resolution, by special 
Order, shall be intimated to the Secretary for Scotland, 
and published in the Edinburgh Gazette, and shall come 
into force after such intimation and publication upon a 
date to be named in the resolution. 

Sec. 103. Definitions. Expressions used in this Act shall, 
unless there be something in the subject or context repug- 
nant to such construction, have the same meaning as in the 
Act of 1892. Provided that, unless there be something in 
the subject or context repugnant to such construction, the 
expression 

"Building" shall, in the Act of 1892 and this Act include 
any structure or erection of what kind or nature soever, 
whether temporary or permanent. 

"Public Building" shall in the principal Act and this 
Act mean a building used, or constructed, adapted, or altered 
to be used as a church, chapel, or other place of public 
worship, or as a school, college, or place of instruction (not 
being merely a dwelling-house so used), or as a hospital, 



LOCAL GOVERNMENT (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1908 127 

poorhouse, public theatre, public music-hall, public hall, 
public concert-room, public ball-room, public lecture-room, 
public library, or public exhibition room, or as a public 
place of assembly, or a building used, or constructed, or 
adapted to be used for any other public purpose ; and shall 
include a building used, or constructed, or adapted to be 
used as a hotel, lodging-house, home, refuge, or shelter where 
such building contains space extending to more than 25,000 
cubic feet, or has sleeping accommodation for more than 100 
persons. 

"Drain" shall in sees. 241-245 inclusive of the Act of 
1892, include all soil pipes, and all other pipes, traps, and 
apparat\is for or iri connection with the removal of sewage or 
waste-water (see definitions P.H.(S.)A., 1897, page 17). 



LOCAL GOVERNMENT (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1908. 

Among other purposes this Act, by virtue of sec. 10, 
-extends sees. 410, 411, 419-425, and 430 of the B.P.(S.)A., 
1892, to counties. Also County Councils may adopt sees. 
144, 145, 158, and 191-200 of the B.P.(S.)A., 1892, but 
only in a special lighting, scavenging, drainage, or water 
district. 

Sec. 15 of this, 1908 Act enables trustees or others in 
charge of a privately-owned hospital or sanatorium for the 
treatment of infectious disease, or a quarantine house, or con- 
valescent home used for persons exposed to infection from 
infectious disease, to transfer them, with the consent of the 
L.G.B. to any L.A., if they are willing to take them over 
under their control. 



128 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



CATTLE-SHEDS IN BURGHS (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1866- 

Sec. 2. Definition of "cattle-sheds," " cow-houses," and 
"byres." These words shall mean and include any building,, 
shed, yard, or other enclosed place or premises in which 
bulls, cows, heifers, oxen, or calves are kept or intended to- 
be kept. 

Sec. 3. The Magistrates license and make rules and 
regulations for cattle-sheds. The Magistrates of Royal 
Burghs and Parliamentary Burghs may have all cattle-sheds, 
cow-houses, and byres inspected, and if found suitable, licensed; 
for one year. They may make rules and regulations for 

(a) The proper sanitary condition of ; 

(b) The number of cattle which may be kept in any cattle- 
shed. 

Penalty for keeping cattle without a licence or without 
inspection 5, and a daily penalty of 5 for continuance. 

Note. It is the cattle-shed which is here licensed, and not the 
cowkeeper who is registered as in the D.C.M.O.s (see- 
Appendix). 

Sec. 4. The Commissioners of other populous places are 
given powers as in sec. 3. The Commissioners of other 
Burghs and populous places who have adopted the Police and 
Improvement (Scotland) Act, 1862, or the Police of Towns 
(Scotland) Act, 1850, are given similar powers as those con- 
ferred upon the Magistrates in sec. 3. 

Sec. 5. When a person has been convicted of non-obser- 
vance of the regulations, the Magistrates may serve a notice 
upon the owner or occupier of the shed, etc., directing him 
to make, within one month, such sanitary improvements as 
the notice directs. 

Non-compliance with the notice entails suspension of 



EDUCATION (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1908 129 

licence for one month. Further continuance of non-com- 
pliance entails another conviction and the licence revoked, 
and no further licence granted to the same person. 

Sec. 6. Licences last one year and are free of cost. 

Any licence may be renewed at the end of one year. 

Penalty for using a shed, etc., without a licence, 5. 

The taking of bulls, oxen, or calves into the shed is 
sufficient evidence of occupation. 

Sec. 7. Fourteen clear days' notice of the intention to 
apply for a licence must be given to the Magistrates or 
Commissioners. 

DAIRIES, COW-SHEDS, AND MILK-SHOPS ORDERS 
(See Appendix.) 



EDUCATION (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1908. 

Sec. 4. School Boards must, if required by the Educa- 
tion Department, provide for medical inspection. 

Note. If the School Board does not make such provision, it may 
be compelled to do so as above stated. M.O.s, nurses, 
and appliances must be provided by School Board. 

Before Government grant can be secured, managers of 
schools must afford facilities for medical inspection, if they 
have not already made provision satisfactory to the 
Department. 

Sec. 5. Education of physically or mentally defective 
children may be provided for by School Board, who will 
require parents to provide for education of such children up 
to the age of sixteen. 

Sec. 6. Empowers prosecution of parents who have filthy 
or verminous children, or of parents who are unable, from 
want of food or clothing, to take advantage of education pro- 
vided for children. 

I 



130 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

THE LOCAL EDUCATION AUTHORITIES (MEDICAL 

TREATMENT) ACT, 1909. 

Sec. 1. Parent to "be charged for treatment given. 

The sum charged not to exceed actual cost of treatment. 
This sum may be recovered as a civil debt, unless the parent 
shows that he is unable to pay on account of circumstances 
other than default. 

Sec. 2. Loss of franchise not entailed by failure to pay. 

Sec. 3. Parents are not obliged to submit children to 
medical inspection or treatment. 

VACCINATION. 

The law regarding vaccination differs in the three 
countries. In England and Scotland the conscientious 
objector's provisions are similar. In Ireland conscientious 
objection to vaccination is not legally countenanced. In 
England, Wales, and Scotland infants must be vaccinated at 
the age of six months. In England public vaccinators are 
appointed, but in Scotland there are no public vaccinators. 
Dispensaries and other institutions may provide free vaccina- 
tion, lii Scotland the Poor Law Authorities vaccinate the 
children of paupers and defaulters at the hands of Poor Law 
Medical Officers. In Ireland children must be vaccinated 
three months after their birth. Vaccination is performed at 
appointed .stations. 

VACCINATION ACTS, 1863, 1907. 

(See also sec. 77, P.H.(S.)A. e 1897.) 

The 1863 Act deals with vaccination, and that of 1907 
enacts that a statutory declaration may be made by those 
who conscientiously believe that vaccination will be pre- 
judicial to the health of the child, 



BURIAL GROUNDS (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1855 131 

The declaration must be made within six months from the 
birth of the child, and must be delivered to the registrar of 
births seven days thereafter. 

Kegistrars are to keep records of such declarations, and, 
on payment of 2d. for each entry, shall supply the list to 
the L.A. 

The Registrar-General and L.G.B. are entrusted with the 
duty of carrying out Act. 

Declarations to be made before J.P., Magistrate, or Judge 
Ordinary. 



BURIAL GROUNDS (SCOTLAND) ACT, 1855. 

(See also P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sees. 16, 22, and 146 (2).) 

Sec. 2. Parochial Board executes Act. But in parishes 
within limits of Burgh, Town Councils execute Act. 

Sec. 3. On representation to Sheriff by three members 
of Parochial Board, ten ratepayers, or two or more house- 
holders living within 100 yards of actual or proposed burial- 
ground, he shall declare whether Parochial Board is to be 
Authority in the case of burial-ground being partly within 
and without Burgh. 

Sec. 4. Any of above may petition Sheriff that burial- 
ground actual or proposed within district, or 100 yards of 
dwelling-house, is or would be dangerous to health, or 
offensive, or contrary to decency. Sheriff fixes day not less 
than ten and not more than twenty -one after receiving petition 
to hear evidence on the point. He must first advertise fact in 
local papers and Edinburgh Gazette. Sheriff to send copy 
of his Interlocutor to one of the principal Secretaries of State 
if he finds allegations true. 



132 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 5. On receiving such Interlocutor an Order of 
Council may be made to enforce closure or prevent opening 
of burial-ground. 

Sec. 6. Penalty for infringement of Order 20, or two 
months' imprisonment. 

Sec. 7. Orders shall not extend to private nor parochial 
burial-grounds, nor to those of Quakers or Jews, unless 
specified in Order. 

Sec. 8. Persons with right to bury in or under any 
church may have right saved hy licence of one of H.M. 
Principal Secretaries of State, if no injury to health will 
result. 

Sec. 9. On requisition of ten or more ratepayers or two 
or more members of Parochial Board, a meeting of that 
Board must be held to determine whether or not a new 
burial-ground should be opened. 

Sec. 10. If a closing Order has been made, a new burial- 
ground must be provided. If this be not carried out within 
six months, a requisition, as under sec. 9, may be made to 
Sheriff asking him to designate suitable ground. The owner 
whose land may be designated must receive ten days' notice, 
so that he may object if so desirous. Within fourteen days 
after Sheriff's designation, owner may appeal to Court of 
Session. In no case is ground to be nearer a dwelling than 
100 yards, unless owner gives written consent. 

Sec. 11. Burial-ground may be within or without parish. 

No extensions or new burial-ground to be nearer than 100 
yards to dwelling, unless by written consent of owner. 

Sec. 12. Parochial Board may purchase ground for the 

purpose, or contract for use of cemetery. 

Sec. 13. Incorporates Lands Clauses (S.) Act, 1845. 



PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS 133 

Sec. 14. Two or more Boards may unite to provide 
burial-ground. 

Sec. 20. Parochial Board empowered to provide places 
for reception of bodies before interment. 

Sec. 21. Secretary of State may make regulations for 

reception of bodies before interment, and for burial-grounds, 
to protect public health. 

Sec. 31. Register of burials to be kept at every burial- 
ground. 

PREVENTION OP TUBERCULOSIS. 

The law on this subject differs somewhat in England 
and Wales, Scotland, and Ireland. In all of these countries 
notification of cases of phthisis is now compulsory (see 
pages 42, 223); the notification in England, however, 
differing from that in Scotland where consent of the L.G.B. 
is required before phthisis can be added to the list of com- 
pulsorily notifiable diseases. In Ireland, any L.A. may now 
adopt Part I. of The Tuberculosis (Ireland) Prevention Act, 
1908, and make phthisis a compulsorily notifiable disease. 
For more detailed information on the subject the student is 
referred to page 223.. 

Note. Regulations issued by L.G.B. in Scotland now enact 
that all cases of Phthisis must be notified to M. 0. H. 
within 48 hours. 

PUBLIC HEALTH (S.) ACT, 1897, AND P.H.(S.)A.A., 1907. 

Since the L.G.B. of Scotland decreed that phthisis was 
to be included among the other infectious diseases named in 
the Notification Act (see page 255), the sections of the 
P.H.(S.)A., 1897, relating to infectious diseases, now apply 
to pulmonary tuberculosis. But sections 57, 58, and 59 of 
that Act, in their original form, were too drastic in their 
application to such a disease as phthisis. Accordingly, 



134 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

amendments of these sections were made by the L.G.B., and 
were placed upon the Statute Book in the form of the Public 
Health (Scotland) Amendment Act, 1907. These amend- 
ments have been embodied in the sections named above. 
They caused the deletion of restrictive administrative 
measures, and substituted the words " if proper precautions 
are adopted to prevent spread of the disease." 

Before the sections were amended, for example, it was a 
penal offence for anyone, while suffering from an infectious 
disease, to travel in a public conveyance, or to expose himself 
in a place of public resort. Now, however, no offence is con 
sidered to have occurred " if proper precautions are adopted 
to prevent the spread of infection." 



SMOKE NUISANCE ABATEMENT ACT, 1857, 
with the amending Acts, 1861, 1865, embodied. 

Sec. 1. Furnaces to be BO constructed or altered as to consume 
smoke produced in the working of all engines by steam, including 
steam vessels either in harbour, at pier, or plying in any river not 
exceeding a quarter mile in breadth. Furnaces connected with 
public baths, wash-houses, etc., included, as well as other places 
where steam-engines are not employed. Fireman or other guilty 
person may be proceeded against. Penalty 2, and double that for 
subsequent offence. 

Sec. 2. If S.M. or J. be satisfied that alterations have been effected 
to consume all smoke, fine may be remitted. 

Sec. 3. Only L.A. can make complaints regarding recovery of 
penalty. 

Sec. 4. Complaints only to be made by summary petition and must 
specify clauses of Act infringed. Petition may be heard within three 
days, but not later than five days after petition. 

Sec. 5. Unimportant. 

Sec. 6. When costs of alterations exceed 25, case to be tried 
before Sheriff. 

Sees. 7 and 9. Sheriff's decision final, but Substitute's decibion 
may be appealed against. 

Sec. 8. Unimportant. 

Sec. 10. Service of petition. 

Sees. 11, 12, 13. Unimportant. 

Sec. 14. Applies Act to Burghs of not less than 2000 inhabitants. 



ACTS APPLICABLE TO ENGLAND 
AND WALES. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875. 

Sec. 2. This Act shall not extend to Scotland, Ireland, 
nor to London. 

Sec. 4. Definitions. 

PARISH means a place for which a separate poor rate is or 
can be made, or for which a separate overseer is or 
can be appointed. 

UNION means a union of parishes incorporated or united 
for the relief of or the maintenance of the poor under 
any public or local Act, and includes any parish subject 
to the jurisdiction of a separate board of guardians. 

GUARDIANS means any person or body of persons by whom 
the relief of the poor is administered in any union. 

PERSON includes any body of persons whether corporate or 
unincorporate. 

LOCAL AUTHORITY (L.A.) means Urban Sanitary Authority, 
and Rural Sanitary Authority. 

SURVEYOR includes any person appointed by a Rural 
Authority to perform any of the duties of surveyor 
under this Act. 

135 



136 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

LANDS and PREMISES include messuages, buildings, lands, 
easements, and hereditaments of any tenure. 

OWNER means the person for the time being receiving the 
rack-rent of the lands or premises in connection with 
which the word is used, whether on his own account 
or as agent or trustee for any other person, or who 
would so receive the same if such lands or premises 
were let at a rack-rent. 

RACK-RENT means rent which is not less than two-thirds of 
the full net annual value of the property out of which 
the rent arises : and the full net annual value shall be 
taken to be the rent at which the property might 
reasonably be expected to let from year to year, free 
from all usual tenants' rates and taxes, and tithe 
commutation rent-charge (if any), and deducting 
therefrom the probable average annual cost of the 
repairs, insurance, and other expenses (if any) neces- 
sary to maintain the same in a state to command such 
rent. 

STREET includes any highway (not being a turnpike road), 
and any public bridge (not being a county bridge), 
and any road, footway, square, court, alley, or passage, 
whether a thoroughfare or not. 

HOUSE includes schools, also factories and other buildings 
in which more than twenty persons are employed at 
one time. 

DRAIN means any drain, of and used for the drainage of 
one building only, or premises within the same curtil- 
age, and made merely for the purpose of communicating 
therefrom with a cesspool or other like receptacle for 
drainage, or with a sewer into which the drainage of 
two or more buildings or premises occupied by different 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 137 

persons is conveyed. [See also P.H.A.(A.), 1890, 
sec. 19 (3).] 

SEWER includes sewers and drains of every description, 
except drains to which the word "drain" is applied, 
and except drains vested in or under the control of 
any Authority having the management of roads, and 
not being a Local Authority under this Act. 

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE includes the buildings and places 
commonly called slaughter-houses and knackers' yards, 
and any building or place used for slaughtering cattle, 
horses, or animals of any description for sale. 

WATER COMPANY means any person or body of persons 
corporate or unincorporate supplying water for his or 
their own profit. 

WATERWORKS includes streams, springs, wells, pumps, 
reservoirs, cisterns, tanks, aqueducts, cists, sluices, 
mains, pipes, culverts, engines, and all machinery, 
lands, buildings, and things for supplying or used for 
supplying water, also the stock-in-trade of any water 
company. 

" COURT OF QUARTER SESSIONS" means the Court of 
General or Quarter Sessions of the Peace, having juris- 
diction over the whole or any part of the district 
or place, in which the matter requiring the cognizance 
of General or Quarter Sessions arises. (Equivalent to 
Sheriff Court in Scotland.) 

Sec. 5. Urban and Rural Sanitary Districts. For the 
purposes of this Act all England (except London) shall be 
divided into districts called respectively 

(a) Urban Sanitary Districts. 
(6) Rural Sanitary Districts. 



138 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Such districts shall be subject to the jurisdiction of Local 
Authorities called Urban Sanitary Authorities and Rural 
Sanitary Authorities. 

Sec. 6. Describes Urban Districts and Urban Authorities. 

(a) If the Urban District is a Borough, the Urban 
Authority shall be the Mayor, Aldermen, and 
Burgesses acting by the Council. 

(A) If it be an Improvement Act District, the U.A. 
shall be the Improvement Commissioners. 

(<:) If it be a Local Government District, the U.A. 
shall be the Local Board. 

Sec. 7. Local Boards and Improvement Commissioners 
shall be bodies corporate. 

Sec. 8. Deals with the election of Local Boards. 

Sec. 9. Describes Rural Districts and Rural Authorities. 

Sec. 10. Details the powers and duties of Urban 
Authorities. 

Sec. 11. Details the powers and duties of Rural 
Authorities. 

Sec. 12. Deals with vesting of property in Local 
Authorities. 



PART III. SEWERS AND DRAINS. 

Sec. 13. All sewers shall be vested in the Local 
Authority. 

Except. (V/) Sewers which have been built for profit. 

(6) Sewers which are used for draining or improving 
land, and which have been made under any local or 
private Act. 

(c) Sewers under tho authority of any Commissioners 
of Sewers appointed by the Crown. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 139 

(Sewers and Drains) 

Sec. 14. The L.A. may purchase sewers, or otherwise 
acquire any sewer or the right to make or use any sewer. 

Note. Persons using tho sewer before the L.A. acquired it, 
are to be allowed to continue to do so, or another sewer 
must be substituted. 

Sec. 15. The L.A. must keep the sewers in repair, and 

make new ones, if such be necessary for the drainage of 
the district. 

Sec. 16. The L.A. may carry their sewers anywhere 
within or without their district, through, across, or under 
any turnpike road, or any street, or under any cellar or 
vault which may be under the pavement of any street. 

Note. If necessary, they may pass through any lands within 
their district after having given written notice to owner 
or occupier. 

If necessary, for the purpose of outfall or distribution, 
the L.A. have the same powers outside their own district. 

Sec. 17. Sewage must be purified before being discharged 
into streams. 

Sec. 18. Alteration or discontinuance of sewers. So 
long as no one is deprived of its use, and so long as no 
nuisance is caused, the L.A. may enlarge, lessen, alter, 
close, discontinue or destroy any sewer. 

Sec. 19. The L.A. must keep all sewers free from 
nuisance, and must have them constructed, covered, venti- 
lated and kept accordingly. 

Sec. 20. An Urban Authority may keep a map of their 
sewage system at their office for the inspection of the 
ratepayers of their district. 

Sec. 21. Owners and Occupiers "within" the district 
may cause their drains to empty into the sewers of the 



140 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

L.A. : but the mode of communication is subject to the 
approval of, and inspection by, the L.A. 

Note. The owner or occupier must give notice to L.A. of his 
intention, and must comply with the regulations of 
theL.A. 

See also sec. 18, P.H.A.(A.)A., 1890. 

Sec. 22. Owners and Occupiers " without " the district 
may cause their drains to empty into the sewers of the 
L.A. on terms to be agreed upon. In the event of a 
dispute the case is settled (1) By arbitration; (2) By a 
Court of Summary Jurisdiction. 

Sec. 23. The L.A. have power to enforce drainage of 
undrained houses. The L.A. may by written notice 
compel the owner or occupier of any house ineffectually 
drained, to provide a covered drain emptying into a sewer 
of the L.A. if there be one within 100 feet of the site of 
the house, or, if not, into such a covered cesspool or other 
place (not being under the house) as the L.A. direct. 

Note. The L.A. may prescribe the materials, sizes and levels 
for such drains, and the fall which they must have. 

In the event of failure to comply, the L. A. may do the 
work in default, and recover expenses from the parties 
concerned (see also sec. 157). 

Sec. 23 of the P.H. A.(A.)A., 1890, gives similar 
powers to Rural Authorities, it also enables bye-laws to 
be made for old, as well as new, buildings. 

Sec. 24. When the drainage of a house though effectual 
is unsuited to the general sewage system of the district, 
or is otherwise objectionable, the L.A. may close up the 
drains, but must undertake to provide effectual drainage, 
and themselves pay the expenses. 

Sec. 25. Penalty for building house without drain in 
Urban District. A penalty of 50 is imposed upon any 
one who, in an Urban District, erects or rebuilds a house 
contrary to sec. 23 of this Act. 

Note. It is unlawful for any person to occupy such a house. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT. 1875 141 

(Disposal of Sewage) 

Sec. 26. Penalty on unauthorised building over sewers 
and under streets in Urban District. A penalty of <5 is 
imposed upon any one who, in an Urban District, erects a 
building over any sewer, or constructs a vault, arch or 
cellar under the carriage way of any street without the 
written consent of the Urban Authority. 

Note. The Act says forfeit instead of penalty, which means that 
the 5 goes to the party instituting proceedings, and is 
not paid into Court as a penalty. There is provision in 
the Act for a further forfeit of forty shillings for every 
day the offence continues. 

The Authority may cause any building erected in con- 
travention of this section to be pulled clown, or otherwise 
dealt with as they may think fit, and recover expenses 
from the offender. 

DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

Sec. 27. Powers for disposing of sewage. Provided that 
there is no nuisance created, any L.A. may, for the purpose 
of receiving, storing, disinfecting, distributing or other- 
wise disposing of sewage 

(1) Construct any works within or without their district. 

(2) Contract for, purchase or take on lease any lands, build- 
ings, engine materials or apparatus, within or without 
their district. 

(;$) Contract to supply any person with sewage for any period 
not exceeding twenty-five yoars. 

Sec. 28. Power to agree for communication of sewers 
with sewers of adjoining district. With the consent of 
the L.G.B. and 011 terms to be arranged, any L.A. may 
permit communication to be ma>!e between their sewers 
and those of a neighbouring L.A. 

The L. A. making such communication must comply with 
the following regulations : 

(1) They must take all possible precautions to prevent storm 
water flowing from their sewers into the sewers of the 
permitting Authority. 

(2) They must not allow the sewage of any other district to, 



142 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

pass into their sewers, and so gain access to the sewers of 
the permitting Authority without written consent from 
such permitting Authority. 

Note. There is no such provision in the Scotch Acts. 

Sec. 29. Power to deal with land appropriated to sewage 
purposes. The L. A. may deal with the land on which they 
treat sewage as they think fit. They may lease it for a 
period not exceeding twenty-one years, or may farm it 
themselves and dispose of the produce. In any method 
adopted, no nuisance must be created. 

Sec. 30. The L.A. may contribute to the expense of 
carrying out the works of any person to whom sewage is 
supplied, or they may become shareholders in any com- 
pany formed to deal with the same. 

Sec. 31. Unimportant. 

SEWAGE WORKS WITHOUT DISTRICT. 

Sec. 32. Notice to be given before commencing sewage 
works without district. Three months before commencing 
sewage works without their district, the L.A. must give 
notice of the fact in papers circulating in the district to be 
affected. 

Note. They must describe the work to be done, show the 
route to be followed by the sewers and state where plans 
are to be seen. 

A copy of the notice is to be served on the real or 
reputed owners or lessees of the lands traversed, and on 
the occupiers of such lands, and on the overseers of such 
parishes, and on the trustees, surveyors of highways or 
other persons having the care of such roads or streets. 

Sec. 33. If any of the persons mentioned in Sec. 32 
object within the three months, no work is to be done with- 
out the consent of the L.G.B., who hold a local inquiry as 
in the following sections. 

Sec. 34. Inspector to hold local inquiry and report to 
the L.G-.B. The L.A. after receiving an objection may 
appeal to the L,G,B. stating the objection made, and 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 143 

(Privies, Water-Closets, Etc.} 

request that inquiry be made on the spot by an inspector 
of the L.G.B. On the report of this inspector the L.G.B. 
may allow, disallow or modify the intended work. 

PRIVIES, WATER-CLOSETS, ETC. 

Sec. 35. Penalty on building houses without w.c. 
accommodation. A penalty of 20 is imposed upon any- 
one who builds or rebuilds a house without a sufficient 
w.c., earth-closet or privy, and an ashpit without proper 
doors and coverings. 

Sec. 36. Power of the L.A. to enforce provision of privy 
accommodation for houses already built. If the surveyor or 
I.N. report that any existing house is not supplied with 
the conveniences mentioned above, the L.A. must, in a 
written notice, request the owner or occupier to provide 
the one or other or all of them, as the case may require, 
within a specified time. 

Note. In event of failure to comply, the L.A. may do the work 
in default and recover the cost. 

If the existing w.c. or privy be used in common, and is 
sufficient, the L.A. may permit the arrangement to 
continue. 

Sec. 37. As to earth- closets. An earth-closet may be 
substituted with the approval of the L.A. for a water- 
closet, even although the enactment enforced in the district 
call for the latter. If the substitution be approved of, the 
L.A. may, on terms to be arranged between them and the 
person providing it, dispense with the supply of water 
which any contract or enactment requires to be furnished 
to a w.c. in any house. 

Note. The L.A. may arrange for the supply of dry earth or 
other deodorising substance to any house for use in an 
earth-closet. 

In this Act, the term " earth-closet " includes any place 
for the reception and deodorisation of faecal matter, con- 
structed to the satisfaction of the L. A. 



144 PURLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 38. Sanitary accommodation for factories. On the 

report of the surveyor that any. building is used or meant 
to be used as a factory where persons of both sexes are to 
be employed at the same time, the L.A. may, by written 
notice, call upon the owner or occupier to provide a 
sufficient number of w.c.s, etc., for the separate use of 
each sex. Penalty for non-compliance, 20, and a daily 
penalty of forty shillings for continuance. 

Note. This is now provided for in the F. W.A. (see Sanitary 
Accommodation Order under that Act). 

P.H.A.(A.)A., 1890, sec. ),>lso dealsjwith the fore- 
going, and when that Act is adopted sec. 38 of the P.H. 
1875 Act no longer applies. 

Sec. 39. Any Urban Authority may provide public 
w.c.s, etc. 

Sec. 40. Drains, privies, etc. to be properly kept. 

Every L.A. shall provide that all drains, w.c.s, ashpits, 
cesspools, etc. within their district be constructed and 
kept so as not to be a nuisance or injurious to health. 

Sec. 41. Examination of drains, etc. on complaint of 
nuisance. On the written application of any person to a 
L.A. stating that any drain, w.c., etc. in the district is a 
nuisance or injurious to health, the L.A. may by writing 
empower their surveyor or I.N., after twenty-four hours' 
notice to the occupier of the premises, or in case of 
emergency without notice, to enter such premises and 
make examination, opening up the ground if necessary. 

(<v) If no nuisance is found, the ground must be closed up, 
and any damage done made good, and the L.A. bear all 
expenses. 

(/>) If nuisance is found to exist, the L.A. give written notice 
to the owner or occupier requiring him, within a reason- 
able time specified therein, to do the necessary work. 
Failure to comply with this notice entails a daily penalty 
of ten shillings, and the L.A. may do the work in default, 
and recover expenses from the owner. 

Note. This section is slightly altered by the P.H. A. (A. )A., 
1907, sec. 34-69, if that Act is adopted. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 145 

SCAVENGING AND CLEANSING. 

Sec. 42. Every L. A. may, or when required by the L.G.B. 
must, undertake or contract for (1) the removal of house 
refuse from premises ; (2) the cleansing of earth-closets, 
privies, ashpits and cesspools. Every U.S.A. or any 
Rural S.A. empowered by the L.G.B. may, or if required 
by the L.G.B. must, see to the cleansing of the streets and 
may undertake to water them also. The L.A. are 
empowered to sell the refuse, and a penalty of 5 is 
imposed upon anyone obstructing the carrying out of the 
removal of refuse. 

Sec. 43. Penalty on neglect of the L.A. to remove 
refuse, etc. A penalty is imposed upon any L.A. neglect- 
ing to remove refuse, or cleanse cesspools, etc., belonging 
to any premises, within seven days of receiving written 
notice from the occupier. 

Sec. 44. Power of the L.A. to make bye-laws imposing 
duty of cleansing, etc., on occupier. Where the L.A. do 
not themselves undertake or contract for the cleansing 
of footways, removal of refuse, or cleansing of cesspools, etc., 
they may make bye-laws imposing the duty on the 
occupier. 

Any U.S.A. may also make bye-laws for the prevention 
of nuisance arising from snow, filth, dust, ashes, and 
rubbish, and for the prevention of the keeping of animals 
on any premises so as to be injurious to health. 

Sec. 45. Any U.S.A. may provide receptacles for deposit 
of rubbish. 

Sec. 46. Houses to be purified on certificate of M.O.H. 
or of two medical practitioners. When it appears from 
such certificate, that any house is in such a condition as 
to be dangerous to health, or that the whitewashing, 

K 



146 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

cleansing, or purifying of any house would tend to check 
infectious disease, the L.A. must notify the owner or 
occupier to whitewash, cleanse, and purify the house 
within a specified time. Failure to comply with notice 
entails a penalty, and the L.A. may do the work in 
default and recover expenses. 

Sec. 47. Penalty in respect of certain nuisances on 
premises. A penalty of forty shillings and a daily penalty 
of five shillings is imposed on the occupier of any premises 
in any Urban Distict, who 

(1) Keeps any swine or pigsty in any dwelling-house or so as 
to be a nuisance to any person : or 

(2) Suffers any waste or stagnant water to remain in any 
cellar or place within any dwelling-house for twenty-four 
hours, after written notice to him from the Urban 
Authority to remove the same : or 

(3) Allows the contents of any w.c., privy, or cesspool to 
overflow or soak therefrom. 

Note. The penalty is imposed upon the occupier by this section, 
but the nuisance here referred to might be dealt with 
under sec. 91 of this Act (page 157), and thus the owner 
could be reached. 

OFFENSIVE DITCHES AND COLLECTIONS OF MATTER. 

Sec. 48. Provision for obtaining order for cleansing 
offensive ditches lying near to or forming the boundaries 
of districts. If such offensive watercourse or ditch exists, 
any Justice in the district may summon the L.A. of the 
adjoining district to appear before a Court of Summary 
Jurisdiction to show cause why an order should not be 
made by such Court for cleansing such foul watercourse, 
etc., and for executing such permanent or other works as 
may appear necessary. 

Note. Such Court may make an Order for the execution of the 
Work, apportioning the cost of such work. 

Sec. 49. Removal of filth on certificate of Inspector 
of Nuisances. If it appears to the I.N. in any Urban 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 147 

(Water Supply} 

District that any accumulation of manure, dung, soil, or 
filth ought to be removed, he shall give notice to the 
owner of the filth, or the occupier of the premises, to 
remove the same within twenty -four hours. In the case 
of failure to comply, the offensive matter shall be vested 
in and may be sold by the U.A. 

(1) If the proceeds of the sale more than cover the expenses, 
the owner of the filth may recover surplus from the U.A. 

(2) If the proceeds of the sale are insufficient, the U.A. may 
recover the extra expenses incurred by them from the 
owner of the filth. 

Sec. 50. Periodical removal of manure from mews 
and other premises. Notice may be given by any U.A. 
(by public announcement or otherwise) for the periodical 
removal of manure from mews, etc. A daily penalty of 
twenty shillings is imposed on anyone who permits 
accumulation of manure beyond the periods stated by 
such notice. 

WATER SUPPLY. 

Sec. 51. General powers for supplying districts with 
water. Any Urban or Rural Authority may provide 
their district or any part thereof with an adequate water 
supply, and for this purpose may 

(1) Construct and maintain waterworks, dig wells, etc. 

(2) Take on lease or hire any waterworks, and with consent 
of the L.G.B. may purchase any waterworks, or any water 
or right to any water, and any rights, powers and privi- 
leges of any water company. 

(3) Contract with any person for a supply of water. 

Sec. 52. Restriction on construction of waterworks by 
any L.A. Before constructing waterworks within the 
limits of any water company empowered by Act of 
Parliament, or by an Order confirmed by Parliament, the 
L.A. must give written notice to every water company 
within whose district water is to be supplied, informing 



148 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

them of the purposes for which, and the extent to which, 
water is required. 

(1) If the Company can supply the water for all reasonable 
purposes for which it is required, the L.A. must not 
construct waterworks within the limits of the supply. 

(2) Any disagreement as to whether the water the Company 
can lay on is proper and sufficient for the purposes 
required, or whether these purposes are reasonable, is to 
be settled by arbitration. 

Sec. 53. Provisions as to the construction of reser- 
voirs. Two months' notice is to be given in the news- 
papers of the district where the work is to be carried out 
(unless the proposed reservoir be a service reservoir or 
tank to hold not more than 100,000 gallons). 

Note. During the two months mentioned, any person likely to 
be affected by the work may serve written notice of 
objection on the L.A., and the work must not be com- 
menced without sanction of the L.G.B. , or unless the 
objection is withdrawn. 

On the application of the L. A., the L.G.B. may appoint 
an inspector to hold a local inquiry into the intended 
work and the objections, and to report on them. On this 
report the L.G.B. ma}" allow, disallow, or modify the 
work to be done. 

Sec. 54. Powers of the L.A. for carrying water mains, 
same as for sewers. The same restrictions upon, and the 
same powers are given to, the L.A. with regard to the 
carrying of mains within and without their district, as are 
imposed and given with regard to sewers. 

Note. For these powers and restrictions, see sec. 16 (page 139) 
and sec. 32 (page 142) of this Act. 

Sec. 55. Supply of water by the L.A. The L.A. shall 
provide and keep in any waterworks constructed or 
purchased by them a supply of pure and wholesome 
water: and where the L.A. lay any pipes for the supply 
of any of the inhabitants of their district, the water may 
be constantly laid on at such pressure as will carry the 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 149 

( Water Supply) 

same to the top story of the highest dwelling-house 
within the district supplied. 

Sec. 56. Power of the L.A. to charge water rates and 
rents. If water be supplied to any premises, the L.A. 
may charge a water rate assessed on the net annual value 
of the premises. They may enter into agreements to 
supply water to any person on terms arranged between 
them. 

Sec. 57. Incorporation of certain provisions of Water- 
works Clauses Act. For the purpose of enabling any 
L.A. to supply water, there shall be incorporated with 
this Act the Waterworks Clauses Act, 1863, and the 
clauses of the Waterworks Clauses Act of 1847, with 
respect to 

(a) The breaking up of streets for the purpose of laying 
pipes. 

(6) The communication pipes to be laid by the undertakers, 
and these to be laid by the inhabitants. 

(c) The waste or misuse of water supplied by the under- 
takers. 

(rf) The provision for guarding against fouling the water of 
the undertakers. 

(e) The payment and recovery of water rates. 

Note. The provisions (6) apply only in districts where the L.A. 
lay pipes for the supply of any of the inhabitants. 

All disputes are settled by a Court of Summary Juris- 
diction. 

The words " with the consent in writing of the owner," 
etc., are to be omitted from sec. 4G of the Waterworks 
Clauses Act, 1847. Rent for pipes and work paid by the 
occupier may be deducted by him from the rent paid to 
the owner. 

Sec. 58. Power of the L.A. to supply water by 
measure. The L.A. may agree to supply any person with 
water by measure, and payment is to be made for every 
meter provided by them. 

They must keep all meters let by them in proper working 



150 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

order, and if they fail as to any meter, the person hiring 
it is not liable for rent during the time it is out of order. 

The L.A. may enter any premises at all reasonable 
times to remove, test, inspect, and replace any meter. 

Sec. 59. The register of the meter shall be prima facie 
evidence of the amount of water consumed. In the 

event of dispute a Court of Summary Jurisdiction settles 
the matter. 

Sec. 60. Penalty for tampering with or injuring any 
meter. A penalty of forty shillings is imposed upon the 
guilty person. 

Note The fact that the consumer possesses any artificial means 
of causing alteration in the reading of the meter, etc., 
is to be taken as evidence that he has fraudulently 
effected the same. 

Sec. 61. Power to supply water to an adjoining 
district. 

With the sanction of the L.G.B. any L.A. may supply 
water to the L.A. of an adjoining district, on terms to be 
arranged. 

Note. Any dispute is settled by arbitration. 

Sec. 62. The L.A. may require houses to be supplied 
with water in certain cases. On the report of the 
surveyor that any house is without a proper supply of 
water, and that a supply can be furnished at a cost not 
exceeding the water rates authorised under a local Act, or 
if there be no local Act, at a cost not exceeding twopence 
per week, or any other sum fixed by the L.G.B. , the 
L.A. must notify the owner in writing to obtain the 
supply, and do all work necessary within a specified time. 

Note. If the owner fails to comply, the L.A. may do the 
work in default, and may enter into a contract with a 
water company if necessary. 

The owner must pay water rates, etc., as if he had 
demanded the supply. The L.A. may recover expenses 
from the owner. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, ms 151 

( Water Supply) 

Sec. 63. Any water company may contract to supply 
Water to, or lease their waterworks to, any L.A. 

Sec. 64. All public pumps, cisterns, wells, etc., are 
vested in the L.A. 

This section applies to pumps, cisterns, etc., for the 
gratuitous supply of water. Other similar works may be 
substituted and supplied with water. 

Works may be provided for supplying water gratuitously 
to any of the inhabitants who choose to carry it away, not 
for sale, but for their own private use. 

Sec. 65. Water for public baths, etc., or for manufactur- 
ing purposes may be supplied by the L.A. on terms to be 
agreed upon between the L.A. and the persons supplied. 
The L.A. may themselves supply, gratuitously, water to 
public baths and wash-houses not established for private 
profit. 

Sec. 66. It is the duty of every U.A. to provide and 
maintain fire-plugs, and to paint marks on buildings, etc., 
indicating their position. 

Sec. 67. Deals with the supply of water to Oxford and 
Cambridge Universities. 

Sec. 68. Penalty for causing water to be polluted by 
gas-washings. A penalty of 200 and a daily penalty of 
20 are incurred by any person (see definition, page 135) 
engaged in the manufacture of gas who 

(1) Suffers to flow into any stream, reservoir, etc., any gas- 
washings, or other lye-product in the manufacture of gas. 

(2) Wilfully does any act connected with the making or sup- 
plying of gas, whereby the water in such stream, etc., is 
fouled. 

Note. The penalty in this section is of the nature of a. forfeit, so 
(a) If the water belongs to the L.A. they recover the 

penalty. 

(6) If it belongs to any other persons they recover tha 
penalty. 



152 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(c) If it belongs to any other person, and that person takes 
no steps, the L.A. may serve a notice on him that 
they intend to proceed. Penalties are recoverable 
only during the continuance of the offence, or within 
six months after it has ceased. 

Sec. 69. The L.A. may take proceedings to prevent 
pollution of streams. With the consent of the Attorney- 
General, the L.A. may take proceedings to protect any 
watercourse, etc., within their jurisdiction from pollution 
arising from sewage either within or without their district. 

Sec. 70. Power of the L.A. to close a polluted well. 

On the representation of any person to any L.A., that 
within their district, the water in any public or private 
well, tank or cistern likely to be used for human consump- 
tion, is so polluted as to be injurious to health, the follow- 
ing procedure may be adopted : 

(1) The L.A. may apply to a Court of Summary Jurisdiction 
for an order to remedy the same. 

(2) The Court shall summon the owner or occupier of the 
premises. 

(3) The Court may 

(~) Dismiss the application. 

(It) Make an Order for the well to be permanently closed. 

(c) Make an Order for the water to be used for certain 

purposes only. 

(</) Order the water to be analysed at the cost of the L.A. 
If the owner or occupier fail to comply with a closing Order, the 
L.A. may do the work in default and recover expenses. 

Note. Expenses incurred by any Rural Authority under this 
section and not recovered by them as aforesaid shall be 
special expenses. 

CELLAR DWELLINGS. 

Sec. 71. Prohibition of occupying cellar dwellings. It 
is illegal to occupy separately or ]et as a dwelling, any 
cellar, vault or underground room, built or rebuilt after 
the passing of this Act, or which was not lawfully let or 
occupied at the time the Act was passed. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 153 

{Cellar Dwellings) 

Sec. 72. Existing cellar dwellings only to be let or 
occupied on certain conditions. It shall not be lawful to 
let or occupy separately as a dwelling any cellar, unless 
the following requirements are complied with : 

(1) The heiylit in every part must be at least 7 feet, of which 
3 feet shall be above the level of the adjoining street. 

(2) An area 2^ feet wide and 6 inches below the level of the 
floor, must run along the whole frontage of the cellar. 

(3) Drainage must be effectual, and the drains mast be at least 
1 foot below the level of the floor. 

(4) Use of a w.c., earth-closet or privy, and a properly- 
covered ashpit must be afforded. 

(5) There must be a fireplace and a chimney. 

(6) An external window at least 9 ft. (superficial) in area clear 
of the sash frame, and made to open in a manner approved 
by the surveyor. 

In the case of a back cellar occupied along with a front 
cellar, such back cellar must have an external window 
of not less than 4 superficial feet in area. 

Steps in the area of, and giving access to the cellar, must 
not be opposite the window, and there must be 6 clear 
inches between them and the external wall. 

Steps leading to the houses above must not be placed 
opposite the window. 

Sec. 73. Penalty on persons offending against Enactment. 
Penalty of twenty shillings for each day of letting, occupy- 
ing or suffering any cellar to be occupied, contrary to the 
above provisions, after written notice from the L.A. 

Sec. 74. Any cellar in which any person passes the 
night shall be deemed to be occupied as a dwelling within 
the meaning of the Act. 

Sec. 75. Power of the Court to close cellars in case of 
two convictions. When two convictions have occurred 
within three months with regard to occupation of a cellar, 
whether the guilty party be the same or not, a Court of 
Summary Jurisdiction may order closure for a time, or 
empower the L.A. to close the cellar permanently. 



154 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



COMMON LODGING-HOUSES. 

There is no definition of a common lodging-house in 
this Act. There is, however, a definition given in the 
P.H.(S.)A. (see page 57). 

Sec. 76. Every L.A. must keep a register of common 
lodging-houses, giving 

(1) Names and addresses of keepers. 

(2) Situation of the houses. 

(3) Number of lodgers authorised in each house. 

Note. As evidence of registration, a certified true copy of the 
entry in the register need only be produced. Such copy 
is supplied gratis by the L.A. (See also sees. 69-75, 
P.H.A.(A.)A., 1907.) 

Sec. 77. All C.L.H.s must be registered and kept only 
by registered keepers. The widow or any member of his 
family may keep the house open as a C.L.H. for not more 
than four weeks after the keeper's death. Such relative 
may, however, be registered in turn. 

Sec. 78. The L.A. may refuse to register a C.L.H. or 
keeper. Every C.L.H. must, before it is registered, be 
inspected and approved by some officer of the L.A. The 
L.A. may refuse to register as the keeper any person, 
unless he produces a certificate of character on a prescribed 
form, and signed by three local householders, each of 
whom pays taxes on a house rented at G or upwards. 

Sec. 79. Notice of registration to be affixed to houses. 
When ordered in writing by the L.A., the keeper must 
affix and keep legible in some conspicuous place on the 
outside of the house, the words " Registered Common 
Lodging House." Penalty for refusal or neglect, 5. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 155 

(Common Lodging-Houses) 

Sec. 80. Every L.A. shall from time to time make 
bye-laws 

(1) For fixing and from time to time varying the number of 
lodgers who may be received into a C.L.H. 

(2) For the separation of the sexes therein. 

(3) For promoting cleanliness and ventilation in such houses. 

(4) For the giving of notices and the taking of precautions 
in the case of infectious disease. 

(5) For the general well-ordering of such houses. 

Sec. 81. Adequate water supply of C.L.H.s. If the 

existing water supply in a C.L.H. is inadequate, and a 
supply is obtainable at a reasonable rate, the L.A. may 
order the keeper to obtain it within a specified time. 
Failure may be met by closure of the house till supply is 
obtained. 

Sec. 82. Limewashing of common lodging-houses. The 

walls and ceilings must be limewashed to the satisfaction 
of the L.A. in the first week of April and October of each 
year. Failure entails a penalty of forty shillings. 

Sec. 83. The L.A. may order the keepers to supply lists 
of beggars and vagrants who have resorted to such houses 
during the preceding day and night. 

Note. The L.A. supply schedules for this purpose. 

Sec. 84. The keeper must give immediate notice in the 
case of fever occurring in a C.L.H. (1) to the M.O.H., 
and (2) to the local Poor Law relieving officer of the union 
or parish in which the house is situated. 

Sec. 85. Power of entry for inspection is given to any 
officer of the L.A. at any time and to all parts of the 
C.L.H. Penalty for refusal of access, .5. 

Sec. 86. Imposes penalties. A penalty of 5 is imposed 
upon the keeper for any contravention of sections 76-83 
and 84. 



156 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 87. In the event of proceedings under this Act, 

persons claiming to be members of the keeper's family, and 
not lodgers, must prove such a statement. 

Sec. 88. Three convictions under this Act disqualify a 
person for five years from acting as keeper of a C.L.H. 

Sec. 89. If only part of a house is used as a C.L.H., the 
provisions of the Act only apply to such part. 

HOUSES LET IN LODGINGS. 

For definition, etc., of " Houses let in lodgings " see 
page 49. 

Sec. 90. The L.G-.B. may empower L.A. to make bye- 
laws as to houses let in lodgings 

(1) For fixing and from time to time varying the number of 
persons who may occupy a house or part thereof let in 
lodgings, and occupied by members of more than one 
family. 

(2) For the separation of the sexes therein. 

(3) For the registration and inspection of the same. 

(4) For enforcing drainage and provision of privy accommoda- 
tion, and for promoting cleanliness and ventilation in such 
houses. 

(5) For cleansing and liinewashing at stated intervals. 

(6) For paving of courtyards thereof. 

(7) For the giving of notices and taking precautions in the 

case of infectious disease. 

This section does not apply to common lodging-houses. 

Note. This section has been amended by the H.W.C.A., 1885, 
sec. 8, which provides that publication by the L.G.B. in 
the London Gdzettc is unnecessary, and that every L.A. 
shall now have power to make such bye-laws. 

NUISANCES. 

Sec. 91 gives a list of the statutory nuisances. A 

nuisance is held to be anything which interferes with 
personal comfort, or is injurious to health. The student is 
here referred to sec. 16 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 20). 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 157 

(Nuisances) 

Sec. 35 of the P.H.A.(A.)A., 1907, has added other 
matters that may come under the category of nuisances. 

The Quarry Fencing Act, 1887, includes an unfenced 
quarry as a nuisance. 

The Coal Mines Regulation Act, 1887, treats unfenced 
mines as nuisances. See also H.W.C.A., 1885, sec. 9. for 
filthy or overcrowded tents, sheds, and vans as nuisances. 

Sec. 91. Definition of Nuisances. The following are 
deemed to be nuisances, and may be dealt with summarily : 

(1) Any premises in such a state as to be a nuisance or 
injurious to health. 

(2) Any pool, ditch, gutter, watercourse, privy, urinal, 
cesspool, drain, or ashpit so foul or in such a state as to 
bo a nuisance or injurious to health. 

(3^ Any animal so kept as to be a nuisance or injurious to 
health. 

(4) Any deposit or accumulation which is a nuisance or 
injurious to health. 

(5) Overcrowding. Any house or part thereof so over- 
crowded as to be dangerous or injurious to health. 

(6) Any factory, workshop, or workplace (not dealt with 
under the F. W.A.) not kept in a cleanly state, or not 
ventilated in such a manner as to render harmless as far 
as practicable, any gases, vapours, dust, or other im- 
purities generated in the course of the work carried on 
therein, or any factory, etc., so overcrowded as to be 
injurious or dangerous to the health of the workers. 

(7) Any fireplace or furnace which does not as far as practi- 
cable consume the smoke arising from the couibustiblen 
therein. 

(8) Any chimney (not being the chimney of a private dwelling- 
house) sending forth black smoke in such a quantity as to 
be a nuisance. 

Special provisions regarding sub-sections 4 and 7. 

(a) Regarding deposits, etc. No penalty shall be imposed 
on any person in respect of any accumulation or deposit 
necessary for the effectual carrying on of any business 
or manufacture, if it be proved to the Court that such 
deposit has not been kept longer than necessary for the 
purposes of the business, or that the best available means 
have been taken to prevent injury to the public health. 

(l>) Regarding fireplaces, etc. The Court may hold that no 
nuisance is created, if it is satisfied that such fireplace or 



158 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

furnace is constructed so as to consume as far as practi- 
cable all smoke arising therefrom, and that such fireplace 
or furnace has been carefully attended to by the person 
having charge thereof. 

Note. Regarding overcrowding, the " sufficient space " is left to 
the judgment of the M. O.H. 

Regarding smoke nuisance, it is unnecessary to prove it 
injurious to health. 

Other forms of legal proceedings besides this Act may 
be employed to remedy the nuisances enumerated in this 
section, but no person must be punished twice for the 
same offence. (Sec sec. Ill of this Act.) 

A properly constructed furnace may be systematically 
misused, so as to be a nuisance, without infringement of 
this Act. 

Sec. 92. The L.A. must inspect their district for the 
detection of nuisances, and take steps to have them abated, 
and must enforce the provisions of any local Act requiring 
fireplaces and furnaces to consume their own smoke. 

Sec. 93. Information of Nuisances to the L.A. may be 

given by 

(1) Any person aggrieved. 

(2) Any two inhabitant householders. 

(3) Any officer of the L.A. 

(4) Any relieving officer. 

(5) Any constable or police officer of the district force. 

Sec. 94. L.A. to serve notice requiring abatement of 
nuisance. When satisfied that a nuisance exists, the L.A. 
shall serve a notice on the author, or failing him, on the 
owner or occupier of the premises, calling for abatement of 
the nuisance within a specified time, and ordering him to 
do all work and take all steps necessary : Provided that 

(1) If the nuisance is due to a structural defect, or if there is 
no occupier, notice must be served on the owner. 

(2) If the author cannot be found, and neither owner nor 
occupier is responsible, the L.A. may abate the nuisance 
without further order. 

Note. The Act does not. detail the nature of the Order, but the 
Courts have decided that such notice must stipulate the 
work to be done. This is different from the Scotch Act. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 159 

(Nuisances) 

Sec. 95. On non-compliance with notice, complaint to 
be made to a Justice. The Justice thereupon issues a 
Summons requiring the person to appear before a Court of 
Summary Jurisdiction. 

Sec. 96. Court shall make an Abatement Order, and 
may impose penalty. The penalty shall not exceed 5. 

Sec. 97. Court may make a prohibition order in case of 
house unfit for human habitation. If a nuisance renders a 
house unfit for habitation, the Court may order closure till 
made fit. When satisfied of fitness, the Court may make 
an Order certifying that it is so. 

Sec. 98. Penalties for contravention of Order of Court. 

(1) For disobeying an abatement Order = We. per day. 

(2) For acting contrary to prohibition Order 20s. per day. 

Moreover, in either event, the L.A. may enter and 
abate the nuisance, and recover expenses incurred thereby 
from the person on whom the Order was made. 

Sec. 99. Appeal against Order. Where any person 
appeals against an Order to the Court of Quarter Sessions 
in manner provided by this Act (dealt with in sees. 268-269), 
no liability to penalty shall arise, nor shall any proceedings 
be taken, or work be done under such Order, until after 
the determination of such appeal, unless such appeal cases 
cease to be prosecuted. 

Sec. 100. If the author is not known, and the owner or 
occupier cannot be found, the Court may address the 
Order for the execution to the L.A. 

Sec. 101. The L.A. may sell any matter removed by 
them in abating any nuisance under this Act. 

Note. Any surplus resulting from such sale shall be paid on 
demand to the owner of such matter or thing. 



160 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 102. Power of entry is given to the L.A. and its 

officers. If refused, a Justice may grant a warrant. 

Sec. 103. Penalty for disobedience of admission order 
of a Justice, 5. 

Sec. 104. Gives power to recover costs and expenses of 
execution of provisions relating to nuisances. 

Sec. 105. Any individual may complain of Nuisance 
to Justice, and the procedure detailed above may be carried 
out. The Court may adjourn proceedings till examination 
of the premises is made by an authorised person. 

Note. Such person has the same powers as an officer of the 
L. A., and can execute Orders and recover expenses 
summarily. 

Sec. 106. Power of a police constable to proceed in 
certain cases against nuisances. In the event of the L.A. 
making default in relation to nuisances, the L.G.B. may 
empower a police officer to institute proceedings and to 
recover his expenses. 

Note. Such police officer has power of entry only with consent 
or .under a Justice's warrant. 

Sec. 107. The L.A. may if they think fit take proceed- 
ings in the High Court. 

Sec. 108. Procedure where cause of nuisance is without 
the district. The procedure is the same as when the 
cause of the nuisance is within the district, but the 
proceedings must be in a Court in the district where the 
nuisance arises. 

Sec. 109. In the case of two convictions within three 
months for overcrowding, a Court of Summary Jurisdiction 
may direct closure of the house. 

Sec. 110. Provisions as to ships. Ships or vessels lying 
in rivers, harbours, etc., belonging to the L.A, are to be 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 161 

{Offensive Trades) 

regarded as houses. The master or officer in charge is to 
be regarded as the occupier. 

Note. If a river, etc., be not within the district, the ship is held 
to be in the nearest, or any district prescribed by the 
L.G.B. 

British and Foreign Government vessels are exempt. 

Sec. 111. The provisions of this Act relating to 
nuisances must not affect other remedies or other Acts. 
No person is to be punished for the same offence, both 
under the provisions of this Act relating to nuisances, 
and under any other law. 

OFFENSIVE TRADES. 

Sec. 112. Eestriction on establishment of offensive 
trades in Urban Districts. Before establishing any of the 
following, or any other offensive trade, the consent of 
the Urban Sanitary Authority (U.S.A.) must be 
obtained : blood boiler, bone boiler, soap boiler and 
tripe boiler ; fellmonger, and tallow melter. 

Penalty for establishment without such consent, 50, 
and a daily penalty of forty shillings for continuance. 

Note. This section is amended by sec. ol of the P.H. A.(A.)A., 
1907, if adopted. 

Note also the difference between this and the Scotch 
Act (see page U6). 

Sec. 113. An U.S.A. may make bye-laws with respect 
to offensive trades established with their consent to pre- 
vent or diminish the noxious or injurious effects thereof. 

Sec. 114. It is the duty of an U.S.A. to complain, to a 
Justice, of Nuisance arising from offensive Trade. If a 
M.O.IT., two legally qualified medical practitioners, or ten 
ratepayers certify that the effluvia from any of the following 
places is a nuisance or injurious or dangerous to health, 
viz. 

Any candle-house, melting-house, melting-place or soap- 
house, or any slaughterhouse or any building or place for 

L 



162 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

boiling offal or blood, or for boiling, burning or crushing 
bones, or any manufactory, building or place used for any 
trade, business, process or manufacture causing effluvia. 

The Court inquiring into the case may fine the author, 
owner or occupier 5 unless he proves that the best 
practicable means have been taken to prevent nuisance. 

Judgment may be suspended till such steps are taken, as 
the Court deems practicable, and Orders to be taken to 
obviate the nuisance. 

Note. Under the certificate of the M.O.H., two practitioners or 
ten ratepayers, the case may be taken before a High Court. 

Sec 115. Power is given to proceed if the nuisance from 
an offensive trade arises outside the district. 

UNSOUND FOOD. 

Sec. 116. Any M.O.H. or I.N. has power to inspect any 
food, and if unsound, to seize it and lay before a Justice. 
This action applies to any food intended for human con- 
sumption, exposed for sale or deposited in any place for 
the purpose of sale, or of preparation for sale. 

Onus of proof that it was not exposed, etc., or intended 
for human food rests with the person charged. 

Sec. 117. Justice may order food seized to be destroyed 
or otherwise disposed of. When the Justice is satisfied 
that the animal or article seized, or liable to be seized, is 
diseased, unsound or unwholesome, or unfit for food, he 
shall condemn it, and order it to be destroyed or otherwise 
disposed of so that it cannot be sold. The owner or person 
charged is liable to a fine not exceeding 20 for every such 
animal or article, or for every parcel of fruit, vegetables, 
corn, bread or flour, or for milk condemned. 

At the discretion of the Justice the penalty may be 
three months' imprisonment without the option of a fine. 

Note. The Justice who convicts need not be the Justice who con- 
demned the food. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 163 

(Infectious Disease) 

Sec. 118. A penalty of 5 is imposed upon anyone ob- 
structing the M.O.H. or I.N. in the discharge of his duty. 

Sec. 119. Procedure in case of suspected concealment of 
food-stuffs. If the M.O.H. or I.N. or other official of the 
L.A. makes a complaint to a Justice on oath that he 
suspects there is kept or concealed in any premises any 
animal or any article of food, the Justice may grant a 
warrant of entry with power to search for and seize the 
articles, etc., so that he may deal with them. 

Penalty for obstruction in this case is <20. 

Note. The foregoing sections dealing with unsound food may be 
slightly amended if Part III. of the P.H. A. (Amendment) 
A., 1890, which is adoptive, is adopted. 

Any R. S.A. may adopt sec. 28 of the Amendment Act 
which extends the application of sees. 110-119 of the 1875 
Act to all articles of food sold or exposed for sale, etc., 
and enjoins that although any article is not seized as 
directed in sec. 116. the Justice may order it to he 
destroyed, etc. 

Sec. 31 of the Amendment Act, 1890, which may only 
be adopted by Urban Authorities, enjoins that if the 
person convicted be a licensed occupier of a slaughter- 
house, his licence may be cancelled. 

INFECTIOUS DISEASE. 

Sec. 120. L.A. may serve notice on owner or occupier to 
disinfect house and contents. If the M.O.H. or other 
qualified medical practitioner certifies that such disinfec- 
tion would tend to check the spread of infectious disease 

(1) A penalty may be imposed for non-compliance, and the 
L.A. may do the disinfection themselves, and recover costs 
from owner or occupier. 

(2) If the person cannot carry out disinfection on account of 
poverty, etc., the L.A. may, if he consents, see to it 
themselves. 

Sec. 121. The L.A. may order destruction of infected 
tedding, etc., and compensate the owner. 

flote. Regarding damage to articles as a result of disinfection, 
see sec. 6 of the I.D.P.A., 1890. 



164 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 122. The L.A. may provide all apparatus, etc., for 
disinfecting bedding, etc., and may perform disinfection 
free of charge. 

Note. See sec. G of the I.D.P. A., 1890. 

Sec. 123. The L.A. may provide ambulances for the re- 
moval of infected persons free of charge. 

Sec. 124. A Justice may order the removal to hospital 

of any person suffering from any dangerous infectious dis- 
ease on the certificate of a qualified medical practitioner 

(a) If there be an hospital conveniently situated. 

(b) If the person is on board a ship or vessel, or without 
proper lodging, or lodged in 'a room occupied by more 
than one family. 

Penalty for disobedience or obstruction, 10. 

Note. In the case of a common lodging-house a Justice's Order is 
not necessary. 

If sec. 65 of the P.H. A.(A.)A., 1907, is adopted, a 
person may be so removed from any place where isolation 
cannot be effectively carried out. 

Sec. 125. Removal of infected persons brought by 
ships. The L.A. may make regulations (to be approved 
by the L.G.B.) for removal to, and detention in hospital, 
of any person brought within their district on board ship, 
and infected with a dangerous infectious disease. 

Penalty for any offence, forty shillings. 

Sec. 126. Penalty on exposure of infected persons or 
things. A penalty of 5 is imposed upon anyone who 

(1) Exposes himself while suffering from any dangerous 
infectious disease, without taking proper precautions 
against spreading infection, in any street, public place, 
shop, inn, or piiblic conveyance, or entering any public 
conveyance without previous notice of his condition to the 
owner, conductor or driver. 

(2) Exposes any other infected person of whom he is in charge. 

(3) Exposes infected articles, gives, lends, sells, transmits, or 
exposes, unless disinfected or on the way to be disinfected, 
any infected bedding, clothing, rags, etc. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 165 

(Infectious Disease) 

Sec. 127. Penalty for failure to disinfect public con- 
veyance. Public conveyances used as above must be 
thoroughly disinfected. Penalty for failure to dis- 
infect, 5. 

Note. No owner is required to convey an infected person until ho 
has been paid a sum sufficient to cover the cost of dis- 
infecting the vehicle. See sec. 11 of the I.D.P.A., 1890 
(page 180), which imposes a fine on anyone hiring a public 
vehicle, etc., for an infected corpse. 

In Scotland (P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sec. 59, page 42), the 
owner must notify the L.A. that he has carried an infected 
person, and the L.A. must perform the disinfection free of 
charge if requested. 

Sec. 128. Penalty for letting infected houses. A 
penalty not exceeding =20 is imposed upon anyone who 
lets an infected house or part thereof until it is disinfected 
to the satisfaction of a qualified medical practitioner. 
This section includes inns, etc. 

Note. See sec. 7 of the I.D.P.A., 1890 (page 179), regarding the 
occupier failing to notify the owner, etc. 

Sec. 129. Penalty for letting infected houses and 
making false statements. A penalty not exceeding '20, 
or imprisonment for one month, is imposed upon anyone 
letting, or offering for hire, any house, and returning a 
false answer when questioned concerning the existence in 
it of infectious disease within the previous six weeks. 

Note. By the previous section a penalty is imposed on anyone 
letting an infected house, and by this section it would 
appear that such a house may be let after six weeks with- 
out disinfection. The words "when questioned" are 
difficult to understand. 

Sec. 130. The L.G-.B. may make regulations regarding 
cholera, etc. The L.G.B. may make, alter, or revoke 
regulations for the treatment of cases of cholera or any 
other epidemic, endemic, or infectious disease, and for 
preventing the spread of disease on land or sea, rivers and 



166 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

waters in the U.K., or on the high seas within three miles 
of the coast. 

The L.G.B. may declare by what L.A. the regulations 
are to be enforced. 

Penalty for obstruction or violation, X50. 

Note. See Cholera, Plague and Yellow Fever Orders (page 256). 
Destruction of Rats Order (page 264). 

HOSPITALS. 

Sec. 131. Power of L.A. to provide hospitals. Any 
L.A. may provide hospitals for the use of inhabitants of 
their district, and for that purpose may 

(1) Themselves build such hospitals. 

(2) Contract for the use of any hospital or part thereof. 

(3) Enter into any agreement with the managers of any 
hospital for the reception of sick inhabitants, on the 
payment of such annual or other sum as may be agreed 
upon. 

(4) Combine with another L.A. to provide a common 
hospital. 

Note. By sec. 11 of the Isolation Hospitals Act, 1893, a 
hospital committee of a hospital district established 
under that Act may purchase or lease any land whether 
within or without the hospital district. 

Sec. 132. Power of the L.A. to recover cost of mainte 
nance of a patient in hospital. The L.A. have power to 
recover such cost, if the patient be other than a pauper. 

Note. It has been held in Court that a parent cannot be sued for 
the cost of maintenance of a child in hospital. 

Sec. 133. Power of the L.A. to provide temporary 
supply of medicine. Any L.A. with the sanction of the 
L.G.B. may provide a temporary supply of medicine and 
medical assistance for the poorer inhabitants of their 
district. 

PREVENTION OF EPIDEMIC DISEASE. 

Sec. 134. The L.G.B. may make regulations for pre- 
vention of diseases. Whenever any part of England 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 167 

(Prevention of Epidemic Disease) 

appears to be threatened with any formidable infectious 
disease, the L.G.B. may make, alter, or revoke regulations 
for 

(1) Speedy interment of the dead: and 

(2) House-to-house visitation : and 

(3) For the provision of medical aid and accommodation, 
for the promotion of cleansing, ventilation, and disin- 
fection, and for guarding against the spread of disease. 

The L.G.B. may by Order declare such regulations to be 
in force in any district or part thereof of any S.A., and to 
apply to any vessels on inland waters, or on arms or parts 
of the sea within the jurisdiction of the Lord High 
Admiral of the United Kingdom for a time to be fixed, 
and which may be varied if necessary. 

Sec. 135. All regulations and Orders so made by the 
L.G.B. must be published in the "London Gazette." 

Sec. 136. The L.A. must see to the execution of regula- 
tions, where such regulations are in force within their 
district, and must appoint and pay such medical officers 
as are necessary for the purpose. 

Sec. 137. The L.A. and officers have power of entry to 
premises and ships, etc., while and where the regulations 
are in force. 

Sec. 138. Poor Law medical officers and practitioners are 
entitled to fees for attendance on patients on board 
ships. 

Sec. 139. Two or more L.A.s must combine for the 
purposes of these sections, if required to do so by 
the L.G.B. 

Sec. 140. Penalty for obstruction or violation of the 
regulations, 5. 



168 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

MORTUARIES. 

Sec. 141. Any L.A. may, or if required by the L.G-.B. 
must, provide a mortuary, and may make bye-laws as to 
its management, and the charges for its use. The L.A. 
may also provide for the "decent and economical inter- 
ment " of bodies received, at charges fixed by the bye-laws. 

Sec. 142. A Justice may order removal of a dead body 
to mortuary. On the certificate of a qualified medical 
practitioner, any Justice may order removal to a mortuary, 
and burial within a specified time : 

(1) Any body dead of infectious disease, and retained in a 
living, or sleeping-room. 

(2) Any dead body in such a state as to be a danger to health 
in the house or room in which it lies. 

If the friends or relatives do not undertake burial within 
the time specified, the relieving officer may do so, and 
recover expenses from them. 

Note.. By sec. 8 of the I.D.P.A., 1890 (page 179), the adoption of 
which is optional, the body of a person dead of infectious 
disease shall not remain unburied more than forty-eight 
hours. Sec also sees. 9, 10, 11, of the I.D.P.A. , 1890. 

Sec. 143. Any L.A. may provide and maintain a P.M. 
room, and may make regulations as to its management. 
Such a P.M. room must not, however, be at a workhouse or 
at a mortuary. 

Note. The Coroner may order removal of a body to the P.M. 



PART IV. L^CAL GOVERNMENT PROVISIONS. 

REGULATION OF STREETS AND BUILDINGS. 

Sec. 149. All public streets are vested in the U.A., and 
the U.A. must see that such streets are paved, levelled, 
etc., as required. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 169 

(Regulation of Streets and Buildings) 

Sec. 150. The U.A. have power to compel paving, etc., 
of private streets. Where any private street or part thereof, 
in any Urban District, is not sewered, paved, levelled, 
channelled, lit, etc., the U.A. may notify the owners or 
occupiers of premises fronting, adjoining, or abutting 
thereon, to carry out the work. 

In default of the owners or occupiers, the U.A. may do 
the work and recover expenses from the owners. 

Note. Although notice is sent to the occupier, it is the owner 
alone who is responsible. 

Sees. 151-156 are omitted as not dealing with sanitary 
matters. 

Sec. 157. Every U.A. may make bye-laws with respect 
to the following matters : 

(1) The level, width and construction of new streets, and the 
'provisions for the sewage thereof. 

(2) The structure of walls, foundations, roofs and chimneys 
of new buildings for securing stability and the prevention 
of tires, and for purposes of health. 

(3) The sufficiency of space about buildings to secure a free 
circulation of air, and with respect to the ventilation of 
buildings. 

(4) The drainage of buildings, w.c.s, earth-closets, privies, 
ashpits and cesspools in connection with buildings, and to 
the closing of buildings or parts thereof unfit for human 
habitation, and to prohibition of their use for such 
habitation. 

The U.A. may provide for the observance of the bye- 
laws by inserting therein provisions as to the following : 

(a) The giving of notices. 

(6) The deposit of plans and sections by persons intending to 

lay out streets or to construct buildings, 
(r) Inspection by the U.A. 
(rf) The power of the U.A. to remove, alter, or pull down 

any work begun or done in contravention of the bye-laws. 

A'o<e. If the P.H.A.(A.)A., 1907, is adopted, sec. 24 empowers 
the L.A. to make bye-laws with respect to the height of 
buildings and chimneys, and with respect to the structure 
of chimneys of factories, etc. 



170 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 158. As to the working of bye-laws. Within one 
month after receiving notice, plan, or description of work 
called for by a bye-law, the U.A. must signify their 
approval or disapproval to the person proposing the work. 

If the work is commenced despite the disapproval of the 
U.A. , they may remove it or pull it down, and recover the 
expense of so doing from the person contravening the 
notice. 

Note. Where the P.H. A.(A.)A., 1907, is in force, this section 
shall apply in the case of chimneys, etc., mentioned in 
notes to sec. 157. 

Sec. 159. Definition of "new building." For the pur- 
poses of this Act, the following shall be considered the 
erection of a new building 

(1) The re-erection of any building pulled down to or below 
the ground floor. 

(2) Any frame building of which only the framework is left 
down to the ground floor. 

(3) The conversion of any building not originally constructed 
for human habitation into a dwelling-house. 

(4) The conversion of one dwelling-house into one or more 
dwelling-houses. 

Sec. 160. Incorporates provisions of the Towns Im- 
provement Clauses Act, 1847. With respect to (a) 
ruinous or dangerous buildings ; (b) precautions during 
the construction and repair of sewers, streets and houses ; 
(c) the naming and improving, etc., of streets. 

Sees. 161-168 are not important to public health students, 
since they refer to purchase of land, arbitrations, etc. 



SLAUGHTER-HOUSES. 
See The Towns Improvement Clauses Act, 1847 (p. 208). 

Sec. 169. Any U.A. may provide a slaughter-house and 
make bye-laws for the same. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 171 

(Bye-Laws) 

Sec. 170. " Licensed " or " Registered " slaughter-houses 
must be so ticketed by the owner or occupier within one 
month of licensing or registration. 

Note. Such notice must be affixed in a conspicuous place and 
kept undefaced. 

BYE-LAWS (sees. 182-188). 

Sec. 182. Authentication and alteration of bye-laws. 
All bye-laws made by a L.A. shall be under their common 
seal. 

Xvte. Bye-laws m;iy be altered or repealed. 
/See definition of bye-law (page 3). 

Sec. 183. The L.A. have power to impose penalties for 
breach of bye-laws. 

Xvte. An Urban Authority may make bye-laws regarding public 
health matters, but a Rural Authority can only do so in 
the case of NOB. 1, 3, 4, G, and 13, unless they are invested 
with urban powers. 

(1) Cleansing of footways, privies, etc.; removal of house 
refuse, etc. 

(2) Prevention of nuisance from snow, filth, etc. 

(3) Common lodging-houses. 

(4) Houses let in lodgings. 

(5) Offensive trades. 
(G) Public mortuaries. 

(7) New streets. 

(8) Public walks and pleasure grounds. 

(9) Markets. 

(10) Slaughter-houses provided by the Urban Authority. 

(11) Stands for horses. 

(1'2) Obstructions and nuisances in streets, fires, places of 
public resort, hackney carriages, public bathing. 

(13) Pleasure boats. 

(14) Hop-picking. 

(15) Burial-grounds. 

Sec. 184. Bye-laws made by a L.A. must be confirmed 
by the L.Gr.B. before they can take effect, and the L.G.B. 
has power to allow or disallow the same as they may think 
proper. 



172 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 185. Bye-laws to be printed. 
Sec. 186. Evidence of bye-laws. 

Sec. 187. Bye-laws made by the M.C. Act, 1835, to be 
submitted to the L.G-.B. 

Sec. 188. As to regulations of the L.A. 

N"(jte. These differ from bye-laws iu so far as they do not require 
confirmation by the L.G.B. 

^APPOINTMENT OF HEALTH OFFICIALS. 

Sec. 189. Every U.A. shall appoint health officials, viz. : 
M.O.H., surveyor, I.N., clerk, and treasurer. If the L.A. 
have already appointed such officers under a local or other 
Act, the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to be 
satisfied, and no second appointment need be made ; addi- 
tional remuneration may, however, be given. 

The U.A. may pay such officers any salary they think 
fit, except in the case of officers any part of whose salary 
is paid out of money voted by Parliament, in which case 
the salary is subject to the powers of the L.G.B. Subject 
to the same powers, every officer or servant appointed 
under this Act is removable by the U.A. at their pleasure. 

The U.A. may appoint assistant collectors and other 
officers. 

Sec. 190. Every R.A. shall appoint health officials, viz. : 
M.O.H. and I.N., and such assistants as may be necessary 
for the execution of this Act. 

Sec. 191. Qualifications, etc., of a Medical Officer of 
Health. No person shall be appointed M.O.H. unless he 
is a legally qualified medical practitioner. The L.G.B. has 
the same power as in the case of a district medical officer 
of a union with regard to the qualifications, appointment, 
duties, salary and tenure of office of any M.O.H. or other 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 173 

(Mode of conducting Business)- 

officer, part of whose salary is paid out of monies voted by 
Parliament (or the C.C.). The L.G.B. may by Order 
prescribe the qualifications and duties of other medical 
officers of health appointed under this Act. With the 
sanction of the L.G.B. the same person may be appointed 
M.O.H. or I.N. for two or more districts. 
The L.G.B. by order prescribe the mode of appointment 
and the proportions which each district shall contribute to 
his salary. With the sanction of the L.G.B. a district 
medical officer of a union may act as M.O.H. 

Any M.O.H. may exercise any of the powers with which 
an I.N. is invested by this Act. 

In the case of illness or incapacity of the M.O.H., a L.A. 
may appoint and pay a deputy, subject to the approval of 
the L.G.B. 

Sec. 192. The same person may act both as surveyor 
and I.N. 

Sec. 193. Officers of a L.A. shall not accept any fee or 
reward whatsoever other than his proper salary, wages and 
allowances. 

Sec. 194. Officers entrusted with money shall give 
security to the L.A. 

Sec. 195. Officers employed under this Act shall keep 
an account of all moneys received by them for the purposes 
of the Act. 

Sec. 196. Summary Proceedings against defaulting 
officers. 

MODE OF CONDUCTING BUSINESS. 

Sec. 197. Every U.A. shall provide and maintain such 
offices as may be necessary for transacting their business. 

Sees. 198-205. Omitted as not concerning the student 
of Public Health. 



174 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 206. The S.A. must make an annual report to the 
L.G.B. in such form and at such time as the L.G.B. may 
direct. 



PART VI. RATING AND BORROWING POWERS. 

Sees. 207-248. Omitted as not concerning the student of 
Public Health. 



PART VII. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 

Sec. 251. Summary proceedings for offences, penalties, 
etc. 

Sec. 252. Complaints and informations under the Act 
must be laid within six months of their origin. It is 
sufficient to describe the offence in the words of the Act. 

Sees. 253-254. Omitted as not concerning the student. 

Sec. 255. Deals with proceedings in certain cases 
against "nuisances." 

Sees. 256-266. Omitted as not concerning the student. 

Sec. 267. Service of Notices. Notices, Orders, and other 
documents may be served by delivering the same to, or at 
the residence of, the person to whom they are addressed. 
If addressed to the owner or occupier of premises, they 
may be delivered to some person upon the premises, or if 
there be no person, they may be affixed to some conspicu- 
ous part of the premises. They shall also be held to be 
served if sent properly addressed by post. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1875 175 



PART VIII. PORT SANITARY AUTHORITIES. 

Sec. 287. The L.G.B. may constitute a Port Sanitary 
Authority (P.S.A.) of the whole or part of any port : 

(1) Any L.A. whose district or part thereof contains or abuts 
on any port. 

(2) Any Conservators, Commissioners, or other persons 
having authority in or over the whole or part of a port. 

The L.A.s, Commissioners, etc., are known as Riparian 
Authorities. The L.G.B. may also constitute a joint 
P.S.A. consisting of 

(a) Two or more L.A.s having jurisdiction within the pro- 
posed area or part of it. 
(6) Representative members of the said L.A.s. 

A joint P.S.A., with control of two or more ports, may 
be constituted consisting of representative members of all 
or any of the L.A.s having jurisdiction within the port. 
The Order may constitute the P.S.A. or joint P.S.A. 
temporarily or permanently. The Order may assign rights, 
powers, etc., under this Act to the P.S.A. 

A " PORT " means a port established for the purposes of 
the laws relating to the Customs of the United Kingdom. 

The L.G.B. may alter, vary, revoke, or rescind any 
Order. 

Sec. 288. A P.S.A. or joint P.S.A. is given jurisdiction 
over all water, and over such portions of the district as 
are specified in the Order. 

Sec. 289. The P.S.A. or joint P.S.A. with the consent 
of the L.G.B. may delegate the exercise of any of their 
powers to any Riparian Authority within or bordering on 
their district. 

Sees. 290-292. Deal with expenses. 



PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



Sec. 291. The Mayor, Aldermen, and the Commons of 
the City of London are the P.S.A. of the port of London. 



PAET IX. LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD. 
Sec. 293. The L.G.B. have power to direct inquiries. 

Sec. 294. The L.G.B. have power to make Orders as to 
costs of inquiries, proceedings, etc. 

Sec. 295. L.G.B. Orders shall be binding and conclusive, 
and shall be punishable in such manner as the L.G.B. 
direct. 

Sec. 296. L.G.B. inspectors have the same powers as 
Poor Law inspectors. 

Note. This is the power to take evidence from willing and 
unwilling witnesses on oath, or if they prefer, with a 
formal signature, declaring the truth of the evidence 
given ; but no person need go more than ten miles to give 
evidence. 

Sec. 299. The L.G.B. may make an Order in the case of 
a defaulting L. A. with regard to drainage or water supply, 
limiting the time for the performance of the duty of the 
L.A. in the matter. 



PART X. MISCELLANEOUS AND TEMPORARY 
PROVISIONS. 

Sec. 305. Right of Entry is given to the L.A. and their 
officers in connection with sewers and drains, after twenty- 
four hours' notice to the occupier. 

Sec. 306. Penalty on obstructing execution of Act, 5. 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE PREVENTION ACT, 1890 177 
(Miscellaneous and Temporary Provisions^) 

Sec. 308. Compensation in case of damage by L. A. Full 
compensation shall be paid to any person whose property 
is damaged in the execution of this Act. 

Disputes to be settled by arbitration, and if the sum 
claimed does not exceed <20, the same may, at the option 
of either party, be fixed by, and recovered before, a Court 
of Summary Jurisdiction. 

Sec. 309. Compensation in certain cases to officers. 

Sec. 314. Bye-laws as to hop-pickers. Any L.A. may 
make bye - laws for securing the decent lodging and 
accommodation of persons engaged in hop-picking within 
the district of such L.A. 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE PREVENTION 
ACT, 1890. 

This is an adoptive Act, which, when adopted, repeals 
sec. 120 of the P.H.A., 1875. The Act does not apply 
to Scotland, nor to London. Any Urban or Rural S.A. 
may adopt it in whole or in part, and in doing so, the 
same procedure is to be followed as was called for in 
adopting the I. D. 1ST. A. 

In Scotland, sees. 45-65 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 
(pages 36-45). 

In London, sees. 58-74 of the P.H.(L.)A., 1891. 
In Ireland, sees. 137-148 of the P.H.(I.)A., 1878. 

The provisions contained in the sections of these Public 
Health Acts are similar to the provisions of the following 
I.D.P.A., 1890. Notes are therefore not appended, but the 
student is referred to the P.H.A.s, where notes will be 
found. 

M 



178 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 4. Infected dairies within or without the district. 
Any M.O.H. possessing evidence that infectious disease in 
his district is caused or likely to be caused by milk 
supplied from any dairy within or without his district, 
may obtain an Order to inspect the dairy from a Justice 
with jurisdiction in the district where the dairy is. 

If accompanied by a V.S., he may inspect the animals 
and report to the L.A., who may call upon the dairyman 
to appear before them to show cause why an Order pro- 
hibiting supply of milk in the district should not be made. 

When an Order has been made, notice of it must be sent 
to the L.G.B., to the C.C., and to the L.A. of the district 
where the dairy is. An Order is to be withdrawn when 
the L.A. or M.O.H. is satisfied that the cause of infection 
has been removed. 

Penalty for obstruction of M.O.H. or any contraven- 
tion, 5. 

The dairyman is not liable for breach of contract if 
this is due to the Order. 

Note. This procedure differs from that followed in Scotland, 
where the M.O.H. does not go outwith his own district, 
but merely notifies the M.O.H. of infected district. 

Sec. 5. The L.A. may order cleansing and disinfection of 
houses or any article therein on the certificate of a 
medical practitioner. 

The L.A. notify the owner in writing that, unless he 
cleanses and disinfects to the satisfaction of the M.O.H., 
they will do so at his expense. 

If the owner cannot carry out disinfection, the L.A. 
may do everything necessary at their own expense. 

Sec. 6. The L.A. may order the owner to deliver up 
bedding, etc., for disinfection. The Order must be in 
writing, and the M.O.H. may issue the Order if so 
empowered by the L.A. 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE PREVENTION ACT, 1890 179 

(Infected Corpses) 

Non-compliance entails a penalty of 10. 
The L.A. return disinfected bedding, etc., free of 
charge, and compensate for unnecessary damage done. 

Sec. 7. Penalties for neglect in connection with infected 
houses. This section imposes a penalty of 10 on any 
person who leaves a house, room, or any part of a house 
in which there has been, within the previous six weeks, a 
case of infectious disease, and who 

(1) Fails to disinfect the house, etc., to the certified satisfaction 
of a qualified medical practitioner. 

(2) Fails to notify the owner of the existence of the 
disease. 

(3) Returns a false answer when questioned by the owner, 
or by a prospective tenant, as to the existence of such 
disease. 

Notice of this section is to be given to the owners of 
infected houses by the L.A. 

Sec. 8. Prohibits the retention of an infected corpse 
more than forty-eight hours in certain places. No 
infected corpse shall be kept, without the written 
consent of the M.O.H., for longer than forty eight hours 
in any dwelling-room. 

Note. Such corpse may be kept longer in a public mortuary, or 
in any room not used as a dwelling or sleeping place, or 
workroom. 

Sec. 9. An infectious corpse in a hospital may be buried 
immediately if the M.O.H. or a qualified medical 
practitioner considers that its removal otherwise would 
tend to spread infectious disease. 

Note. Any mortuary is to be considered part of the hospital. 

Sec. 10. A Justice may order immediate burial of any 
infected corpse. He may do so on the application of 
the M.O.H. 

The burial is carried out by the relieving officer, 



180 PUBLFC HEALTH LAW 

unless the relatives of the deceased undertake the 
responsibility. 

Sec. 11. Penalty for conveying an infected corpse in a 
public conveyance other than a hearse. The penalty of 
<5 is imposed on 

(1) Any person hiring the same. 

(2) The owner or driver of the conveyance, if he does not 
endeavour to prevent the spread of infection. 

Sec. 12. A person with nowhere to go, on leaving an 
infectious disease hospital, when lie cannot take proper 
precautions against the spread of infection, may be kept 
in hospital at the expense of the L.A. on the Order of a 
Justice. 

Any constable or officer of the L.A., or officer of the 
hospital, may enforce this section. 

Sec. 13. Penalty of 5 for exposure of infected articles. 

and a daily penalty of forty shillings for continuance. 

Sec. 14. Notice of sees. 7 and 13 must be served on 
the occupiers of infected houses by the L.A. 

Sec. 15. Empowers the L.A. to provide housing and 
attendants for residents of an infected house compelled to 
leave to permit of disinfection. 

Sec. 17. Gives power of entry to the L.A., or authorised 
officers, between the hours of 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. 

Sec. 19. If this Act is adopted, local Acts are repealed. 

Sec. 21. The L.A. may rescind the Act in whole or in 
part, and the same procedure is called for as when adopt 
ins: it. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1890 181 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) 
ACT, 1890. 

This Act is divided into five parts, but Part III. alone 
deals with sanitary matters, and like the other parts shall 
only extend to districts in which the Act is adopted. A 
L.A. may adopt all or any parts of the Act. Rural 
Authorities may adopt Part III. where the Act states it is 
applicable to such Authority. Before the Act can be 
adopted in whole or in part, notice of at least one calendar 
month must be given (of the meeting and its intention) to 
each member of the L.A. Advertisement of the resolution 
must be published in local newspapers. Copy of resolu- 
tion to be sent to L.G.B. 



PART III. SANITARY AND OTHER PROVISIONS. 

Sec. 16. Infectious matter not to pass into sewers. 
No matter is to be thrown or allowed to pass into a sewer 
or drain belonging to L.A. so as to interfere with the free 
flow in the sewer or drain, nor must injury be done to 
sewer or drain. Penalty not exceeding .10 ; daily penalty, 
twenty shillings. 

Note. This sec. may be adopted by Rural S.A. 

Sec. 17. Chemical refuse, etc., not to be turned into 
sewers. No chemical refuse, waste steam, condensing 
water, heated water, nor other liquid (temperature above 
110 F.), which alone or in combination with the sewage 
causes a nuisance or is dangerous to health, is to be turned 
into any sewer or drain. Any officer of the L.A., when 
authorised, may enter any premises to ascertain whether 



182 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

contravention exists. If refused admission, an Order may 
be secured from a Justice. This Order may be kept in 
force until nuisance has been abated, or chance of recur- 
rence removed. A penalty cannot be imposed for contra- 
vention, if the L.A. have not given notice of the provision 
of this section, nor for an offence committed seven days 
before the expiry of the service of such notice. 

Note. This sec. may be adopted by Rural S.A. 

Sec. 18. L.A. may make communication with, or alter, 
etc., any drain or sewer. When an owner or occupier of 
any premises is entitled to secure a connection between 
his drain or sewer with any of those of the L, A., he may, by 
paying costs to L.A., request them to make the necessary 
connections, etc. The surveyor of the L.A. shall estimate 
the costs, but if the owner be dissatisfied, and if the 
estimate be under ,50, he may appeal to a Court of 
Summary Jurisdiction. If the sum be over <50 the dispute 
shall be settled by arbitration. The question of altering, 
enlarging, or making such sewer or drain may be settled 
by agreement between the owner and L.A. 

Note. This sec. may be adopted by Rural S.A. 

Sec. 19. Extension of sec. 41 of 1875 Act. When two 
or more houses belonging to different owners are con- 
nected to a public sewer by a single private drain, an 
application (relating to nuisances) may be made under sec. 
41 of the 1875 Act, and the L.A. may recover expenses 
connected with the necessary investigations (for the detec- 
tion of nuisance) from the several owners in the proportions 
settled by the surveyor, or when dispute arises, by a Court 
of Summary Jurisdiction. The expenses may be summarily 
recovered, or may be declared by the Urban Authority to 
be private improvement expenses. For the purposes of 



PUBLIC HEALTfl ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1890 

(Sanitary and other Provisions) 

this section the term "drain" includes a drain used for 
draining more than one building. 

Note. This sec. may be adopted by Rural S. A. 

Sec. 20. Sanitary conveniences for public accommoda- 
tion. (This section may be adopted by an U.S.A., but not 
a R.S.A.) 

(1) When an U.S.A. makes such provision, it may 

(a) Make regulations for management thereof, and bye- 
laws for decent conduct of persons using same. 

(6) Let the same from time to time, but never for more 
than three years, and subject to any conditions they 
choose. 

(c) Charge for the use of such w. c.s. 

(2) No public sanitary conveniences shall, after the 

adoption of this part of the Act, be erected on, 
or be accessible from, any street without written 
consent of L.A. The L.A. may give permission on 
certain conditions, such as removal at any time of 
convenience. 

(3) Contravention of the foregoing sub-section entails a 

penalty. 

(4) This section does not apply to railway conveniences 

erected in the station or its approaches. 
Note. See also sees. 39 and 45 P.H.A., 1875. 

Sec. 21. Sanitary Conveniences Used in Common. This 
applies to such used in common by occupiers of two 
or more separate dwellings, or other persons. Imposes a 
penalty for any injury done. 

If the approaches or any part of the convenience are 
such as to constitute a nuisance or annoyance to the in- 
habitants of the district for want of proper cleansing 
thereof, each of the persons having the right to use the 
convenience is liable to a penalty, if the real culprit 
cannot be ascertained. 

Note. See also P.H.A., 1875, sec. 36. 



184 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 22. Sanitary conveniences for factories. 

(1) Every factory or workshop, or where persons are 

employed or intended to be employed in any trade or 
business (whether erected before or after passing this 
Act), shall be provided with proper sanitary con- 
veniences, consideration of numbers and sexes being 
taken into account. 

(2) On a complaint from their Surveyor that the foregoing 

is not being acted upon, any U.A. may by notice 
require owner to make necessary and suitable 
provisions. 

(3) Neglect or refusal entails a penalty. 

(4) Where this section is in force, sec. 38 of the P.H.A., 

1875, shall be repealed. 

Sec. 23. Extension of sec. 157, P.H.A., 1875. This 
section enables Urban S.A.s to make bye-laws for the 
following matters : 

(1") Keeping of w.c.s supplied with sufficient flush. 

(2) Regulation of heights of habitable rooms. 

(3) Structure of iloors, hearths and staircases. 

(4) Paving of back yards and open spaces connected with 
dwelling-houses. 

(5) Provision of secondary means of access from new streets, 
for removal of house and other refuse matters. 

Bye-laws made under that section, as extended by this 
Act, and relating to drainage of buildings, w.c.s, earth- 
closets, privies, ashpits, and cesspools, in connection with 
buildings, as well as proper flushing arrangements for 
w.c.s, shall apply to buildings erected before the times 
mentioned in the said section. 

Note. Also the provisions of said sec. 157, and matters 
mentioned under sub-sees. (3_) and (4), as well as those 
mentioned in this section, shall be extended to Rural 

S.A.s. 

L.A.s have power to enforce such bye-laws 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1890 185 

(Sanitary and other Provisions) 

Sec. 158 of the P.H.A., 1875, shall extend to every 
Rural S.A. where this part of the 1890 Act is adopted. 

Every L.A. may make bye-laws to prevent buildings 
erected under the P.H. Acts from being altered in such a 
way as if at first so constructed they would have contra- 
vened the bye-laws. 

Sec. 24. Forbids using rooms over privies, etc., as 
dwelling-rooms. No room is to be occupied as a dwelling- 
place, sleeping-place or workroom, or place of habitual 
employment in any process of manufacture, trade or 
business either by day or night, if any portion of it 
extends immediately over any privy, cesspool, midden, or 
ashpit. 

W.C.s and earth-closets are excepted, and the pro- 
vision applies whether the room be built before or after 
adoption of this Act. No such room is to be occupied 
after expiry of one month subsequent to the adoption of 
this Act. If that provision be contravened, and if the 
room is occupied after expiry of seven days' notice from 
the L.A., penalty not exceeding forty shillings, and daily 
penalty not exceeding ten shillings. 

Note. This sec. may be adopted by a Rural S.A. 

Sec. 25. No buildings to be erected on ground filled up 
with offensive matter, unless and until such matter shall 
have been properly removed by excavation or otherwise, or 
shall have been rendered or have become innocuous. 

Contravention, penalty not exceeding 5 ; daily, not 
exceeding forty shillings. 

Note. This sec. may be adopted by a Rural S.A. 

Sec. 26. (1) Bye-laws may be made for certain sanitary 
purposes. 

() To prescribe times of carriage or removal of faecal or 
noxious matter through streets, whether such matter 
conies from within, without, or through their district. 



186 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(6) Proper construction of vehicles used to prevent escape of 

any such matter or liquid. 
(c) For compelling cleansing of places where such matters 

have been dropped or spilt. 

(2) When the L.A. undertake or contract for removal of 
house-refuse, they may make bye-laws imposing upon 
occupier of any premises such duties as will facilitate 
the work of L.A. 

Note. Only sub-sec. 2 may be adopted by a Rural S.A. 

Sec. 27. Common courts and passages to be kept clean. 

(1) When such lead to the back of several buildings in 

separate occupations, and not being highways liable to 
be repaired by the inhabitants at large, are not re- 
gularly and effectually kept clean to the satisfaction of 
the Urban S.A., they may cause such court or passage 
to be kept swept and cleaned. 

(2) The expenses so incurred by the L. A. shall be ap- 

portioned by the surveyor. In cases of dispute, by a 
Court of Summary Jurisdiction. In default of pay- 
ment of share so apportioned, by summary means. 

Sec. 28. Extension of sees. 116 to 119 of P.H.A., 1875. 

(1) These sections shall be extended to include all articles 

of human food, sold, or exposed, or deposited in any 
place for sale, or preparation for sale within district 
of any L.A. 

(2) Any Justice may condemn such article, and order it to 

be dealt with as stated in sec. 1 17 of the P.H.A., 1875, 
if satisfied on complaint regarding its unsoundness, 
unwholesomeness, or unfitness for human food, 
although the article had not been seized as laid 
down in sec. 116 of the 1875 Act. 
Note. This sec. may be adopted by a Rural S.A. 

Sec. 29. Duration of licences. Licences granted for 
places to be used as slaughter-houses after the passing of 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS ( AMENDMENT") ACT, 1890 187 

{Sanitary and other Provisions) 

this Act, shall be in force for such time or times as L.A. 
may specify, but never for a less period than twelve 
months. 

Note. This sec. can only be adopted by a Rural S.A. if it has 
obtained Urban powers under sec. 5. 

Sec. 30. Notice of change of occupation of slaughter- 
house. 

(1) When a registered or licensed slaughter-house within 

an Urban S.A. has a change of occupier, or joint- 
occupier, written notice regarding the change must 
be sent to the I.N. 

(2) Failure to give such notice within a month after the 

change of occupancy entails penalty not exceeding 5. 

(3) This enactment is to be endorsed on all licences 

granted after adoption of this part of the Act. 

Note. This section can only be adopted by a Rural S.A. if it has 
obtained Urban powers under sec. 5. 

Sec. 31. Licence may be revoked if unsound food 
be sold. If a licensed slaughterer is convicted by a Court 
of Summary Jurisdiction for selling, exposing for sale, or 
having in his premises or in his possession a diseased 
carcase or any piece of unsound flesh, his licence may be 
revoked. 

Note. This section can only be adopted by a Rural S.A. if it be 
invested with Urban powers. 

Sec. 32. Extends sec. 84 of the P.H.A., 1875. Failure 
to give the notice required in sec. 84 by any keeper of a 
common lodging house entails penalty not exceeding forty 
shillings, and daily, not exceeding five shillings. 

Sec. 33. Buildings described on deposited plans other- 
wise than as dwelling-houses are not to be used as 
dwelling-houses. 
(1) Any person who wilfully uses, or knowingly permits 



188 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

such building, or any part of it, to be used as a habi- 
tation by any other than the caretaker and his family, 
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 5, and to a 
daily penalty not exceeding forty shillings. 
(2) If the building has the necessary space to its rear, 
as required by any special bye-law in force in the 
district, or as required by any Act of Parliament with 
regard to human habitation, and if structural altera- 
tions have been made to the satisfaction of the L.A. 
to render the house fit for occupation, the owner may 
use the same as a dwelling-house. 
A'o/e. This sec. may bo adopted by a Rural S.A. 

Sec. 34. During progress of erecting buildings, hoardings 
to be set up. 

(1) Before beginning to alter, repair, take down, or erect 

any building in any street or court, the Urban 
Authority, unless they otherwise give written consent, 
must be satisfied with the hoarding put up to separate 
the building from the court or street. 

Note. The hoarding is required where repairs refer to the out- 
ward part of the building, and where new buildings are to 
bo erected. 

(2) The Authority may require a convenient covered 

platform and footway to be made for passengers. 

(3) Also it may require such to be maintained in good 

condition during their pleasure. 

(4) Cause it to be properly lighted at night. 

(5) Remove it when required by Urban Authority. 

Penalty not exceeding 5 ; daily, not exceeding forty 
shillings. 

Note. Can only be adopted by Rural S.A. if it possesses Urban 
powers. 

Where this part of the Act is adopted, sec. 80 of the 
Towns Improvements Clauses Act, 1847, shall be repealed, 
and this section substituted. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1890 189 

(Sanitary and other Provisions} 

Sec. 35. Repairs of cellars under streets. This section 
has no interest to the Public Health student. 

Sec. 36. Means of ingress to and egress from places of 
public resort. 

Sec. 37. Safety of platforms used on public occasions. 

Sec. 38. Bye-laws may be made for preventing danger 
from shooting galleries, etc. 

Sec. 39. Refuges, etc., in streets. 

Sec. 40. Cabmen's shelters. Local Authorities may 
provide such, and may make bye laws for regulating 
them. 

Sec. 41. Adoption of private streets. 
Sec. 42. Statues and monuments. 
Sec. 43. Trees in roads. 
Sec. 44. Parks and pleasure-grounds. 
Sec. 45. Public recreation grounds. 
Sec. 46. Public clocks. 

Sec. 47. Cinders and ashes not to be thrown into 
streams to cause annoyance. 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE NOTIFICATION 
(EXTENSION) ACT, 1899. 

This Act now makes it compulsory for every L.A. 
throughout England and Wales to adopt the I.L>.(N.)A., 
1889. 



190 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) 
ACT, 1907. 

This is an adoptive Act, and applies to England, Wales 
and Ireland. 



PART I. 

Applies generally. The Act is divided into ten parts. 
Under the first part termed General, the following points 
are worth noting. Part I. is extended to England and 
Wales (London excepted). All the other parts or any of 
their sections extend to any district to which the L.G.B. 
or Secretary of State may apply them by Order. All bye- 
laws made previous to the passing of this Act remain in 
force, where provisions for such bye-laws are made in this 
Act. 

On the application of a L.A., the L.G.B. may declare 
any part or section operative. This applies also to a 
R.D.C. in any contributory place within the district of the 
L.A. If any local Act exists containing provision in- 
consistent with or similar to those found in this Act, the 
L.G.B. may declare the local Act no longer in force. 

Sec. 3 (3). Method of adopting this Act by L.A. A 
fortnight before applying for an Order, the L.A. shall give 
notice of their intention by advertising the fact once at 
least in one or more of the local newspapers. The L.G.B. 
will not make an Order until satisfied regarding this 
advertisement, and also that one month has elapsed since 
date of advertisement. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1907 191 



PART II. (ADOPTIVE). 

Sec. 15. Eelates to deposit of plans, etc. Subsequent 
sections are interesting mainly to the surveyor. 

Sec. 25. Has reference to paving of yards exclusively 
connected with dwelling-houses. Requires these to be 
paved and properly drained so as to carry away surface 
and sub-soil water to a proper outfall. The L.A. give 
twenty-one days' notice. If owner fail to carry out the 
necessary work, L.A. do it, and recover costs as civil debt. 

Sec. 26. Entrances to courts not to be narrowed to 
affect free circulation of air. 

Sec. 27. Plans must be lodged with L.A. before 
temporary buildings can be erected or set up. 

L.A. must give their decision regarding plans within a 
month. 

L.A. may attach any conditions deemed proper with 
regard to sanitary arrangements, etc. 

(Temporary buildings set up in connection with construction, 
alteration, or repair of any building or work are not included. ) 



PART III. (ADOPTIVE). 

SANITARY PROVISIONS. 

Sec. 34. Amends sec. 41 of the P.H.A., 1875, so that the 
words " but not otherwise " shall read " or where, on the 
report in writing of their surveyor or I.N"., the L.A. 
have reason to suspect that any drain, w.c., earth-closet, 
ashpit or cesspool is a nuisance or injurious to health." 

Sec. 35. Amends sec. 91 of the 1875 Act by making the 
following additions to the list of nuisances : 



192 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(1) Any cistern used for the supply of water for domestic 

purposes so placed, constructed, or kept as to render 
the water therein liable to contamination, and causing 
or likely to cause risk to health. 

(2) Any gutter, drain, shoot, stack-pipe, or down-spout of 

a building which, by reason of its insufficiency, or 
its defective condition, shall cause damp in such 
building or in an adjoining building ; and 

(3) Any deposit of material in or on any building or 

land which shall cause damp in such building, or in 
an adjoining building, so as to be dangerous or 
injurious to health. 

Sec. 36. Rain water pipes not to be used for conveying 
soil or drainage from privies or w.c.s. 

Penalty not exceeding 5 ; daily, forty shillings, 

Sec. 38. Drains not previously communicating with 
sewers may be opened up and examined before such con- 
nection is permitted. 

Before connection is allowed surveyor must be satisfied. 

Sec. 39. (1) Gives definitions as follows : 

Closet accommodation includes receptacle for human 
excreta and its fittings. 

Pail-closet includes a movable receptacle for human 
excreta. 

Water-closet accommodation used, or adapted, or in- 
tended to be used in connection with w.c. system, including 
flushing, pi'ovision for such by means of fresh water, and 
having proper communication with a sewer. 

Slop-closet means accommodation used, adapted, or 
intended to be used in connection with water-carriage 
system, including provision for flushing with slops, or 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1007 193 

(Sanitary Provisions) 

domestic waste, liquids or rain-water, and having connec- 
tion with a sewer. 

Sufficient sewer and water supply means sufficient and 
reasonably available for efficient flushing, cleansing, and 
removal of excreta from such number of w.c.s and slop- 
closets as may have to be provided. 

(2) Within one month of depositing plan for new 
building the L.A. may, by written notice, require said 
building to be provided with sufficient w.c.s and slop-closets 
as the circumstances demand, if, that is, there be sufficient 
water supply and sewerage available. 

(3) If L.A. are satisfied on report of M.O.H., I.N., or 
Surveyor that such has not been provided, and if alterations 
of existing conveniences cannot supply the necessities of 
the building, they may, by written notice, require adequate 
provision to be made, if (as in preceding sub-sec.) water 
and sewer be available. 

If owner or owners fail to comply within time specified 
in notice (i.e. at the end of not less than fourteen days) 
L.A. may do work, and recover cost as civil debt. 

(4) If sewer and water be available, L.A. may also 
demand conversion of existing closets (apart from w.c.s and 
slop-closets) into w.c. or slop-closet. L.A. may, in default, 
do the work. If pail-closets are converted into w.c.s, 
L.A. bear entire cost. If closets are other than pails, L.A. 
bear one-half, owner the other half which maybe summarily 
recovered. Every notice under this sub-sec, must state 
the effect of the sub-section. 

(5) With regard to slop-closets nothing in this section 
shall have effect unless, or until, L.G.B. have been satisfied 
by L. A., and have by Order declared that the circumstances 
of the district render it expedient that the section shall 

N 



194 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

apply to slop-closets. L.G.B. direct how the Order is to 
be published. 

Sec. 40. Surveyor determines proportions of expenses 

to be paid under previous section, but, in cases of dispute, 
a Petty Sessional Court. 

Sec. 41. Powers of entry given to authorized persons 
on producing authority for purposes of sec. 39 of this Act, 
as well as sees. 102 and 103 of 1875 Act. 

Sec. 42. Gives right of appeal against requirements 
and expenses under sec. 39. 

Appeal must be within fourteen days of service of notice. 
L.A. shall do no work pending decision of Court of Appeal. 
If work has been begun by L.A. it must be stopped until 
decision is given. 

Sec. 43. Urinals and sanitary conveniences opening on 
to street causing offence or nuisance to public decency, 
may be removed within reasonable time at instance of 
L.A., by written notice. 

Note. This applies to places erected either before or after passing 
of this Act. 

Sec. 44. Provision of urinals obligatory where none 
exist in an inn, public-house, beer-house, eating-house, 
refreshment-house, or place of public entertainment. L.A. 
may require one or more in suitable positions, by written 
notice. This applies to places built before or after passing 
of this Act. 

Sec. 45. (1) Drains believed to be defective may be 
tested, if M.O.H., I.N., or Surveyor report to L.A. that 
there is ground for believing the drains are defective or 
injurious or dangerous to health. Smoke, or coloured 
water, or other similar test, may be applied (hydraulic test 
excepted). If owner refuses permission, an Order must be 
got from Court of Summary Jurisdiction. 






PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1907 195 

(Sanitary Provisions) 

(2) If drains are found defective, L.A. by written notice 

specify defects, and require owner to remedy them. If 
he fails, L.A. may do work, and recovpr costs as civil 
debt, or treat them as private improvement expenses. 

(3) Owner must afford reasonable facilities for carrying 

out test. If he fails to do so, he is liable to penalty. 

Sec. 46. Objectionable cesspools, etc., and ashpits may 
be filled up, altered, or removed. L;A. on report of 
M.O.H., I.N., or Surveyor that any cesspool or other 
receptacle used at any time for excreta or other obnoxious 
matter, or for all or part of house drainage, or ashpit, is 
prejudicial to health or in any way insanitary, may require 
such to be filled up, removed, or altered, and may require 
owner, by written notice, to do necessary work, and to 
disconnect, destroy, or remove any connecting drain so as 
to remove any objection. Where two or more owners or 
occupiers are concerned, notices must be served on them 
all. L.A. may do the work in default. 

Sec. 47. L.A. may provide and maintain public sanitary 
conveniences and lavatories. 

(a) They may make charges, except for urinals. 

(b) They may make bye-laws for regulating conduct of 

persons frequenting them. 

(c) They may let them for such times and terms as they 

think proper. 

Sec. 48. Owner or occupier of premises may require 
L.A. to remove any trade-refuse (except sludge). In case 
of dispute Court of S.J. shall settle amount to be paid 
by owner or occupier. The same Court, on complaint by 
L. A. or other party, shall decide what is to be considered 
trade-refuse. 

Sec. 49. L.A. may, on report of M.O.H., I.N., or 
Surveyor require provision of proper sink or drain, or 
other necessary appliance for carrying off refuse water. 



196 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Twenty-eight days' notice shall be given by L.A. to 
provide such in manner specified. L.A. may do work in 
default, and recover cost. This applies to existing as well 
as to now buildings. 

Sec. 50. L.A. to provide ambulance and suitable 
attendants for accidents. Ambulance may be hired to 
other L.A.s on suitable terms. 

Sec. 51. (1) Amendment of sec. 112 of P.H.A., 1875. 

The words in sec. 112, "any other noxious or offensive 
trade, business or manufacture," shall by this section be 
substituted by " any other trade, business or manufacture 
which the L.A. declare by Order confirmed by L.G.B. and 
published in such manner as the Board shall direct, to be 
an offensive trade." 
(2) L.A. may make bye-laws for any trade, etc., declared 

to be offensive, whether established before or after 

passing this Act. 



PART IV. (ADOPTIVE). 

INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 

Sec. 52. While knowingly suffering from infectious 
disease no one to carry on trade, or business, or engage in 
occupation, unless he can do so without risk of spreading 
such disease. Penalty, forty shillings. 

Sec. 53. Dairymen to supply M.O.H. within reasonable 
time with list of all sources of milk supply within 
six weeks previous, when M.O.H. certifies to L.A. that 
infectious disease is being spread by milk. 

Payment of sixpence for each list, and sixpence for 
each twenty -five names. Penalty not exceeding 5, a.nd 
daily penalty, forty shillings. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1907 197 
(Infectious Diseases) 

Sec. 54. Dairymen having premises within or without 
district to notify M.O.H. regarding cases of infectious 
disease occurring among those engaged in connection with 
the dairy. Penalty, forty shillings. 

Sec. 55. (1) Forbids taking or sending infected. articles 
to laundry or public wash-house. Infected bedding, 
clothes, or other things known to have been exposed to 
infection, must not be taken or sent unless they have been 
disinfected to satisfaction of L.A., M.O.H. or qualified 
medical practitioner, or are sent with proper precautions 
for disinfection, accompanied by a notice that they have 
been exposed to infection. 

(2) Penalty, forty shillings. 

(3) L. A. empowered to disinfect articles free of charge. 

Sec. 56. (1) Gives powers to L A. to cleanse, purify or 
destroy filthy articles in a house, if M.O.H. certifies that 
by so doing, injury to health of inmates will be obviated. 
(2) L.A. have power to make reasonable compensation for 
damage to articles as a result of foregoing operations. 

Sec. 57. Parents or guardians must not permit children 
who have suffered from, or have been exposed to, infectious 
disease, to return to school until they have secured 
certificate from M.O.H. This certificate to be given free, 
and must certify that children may attend school without 
undue risk to others. Penalty, forty shillings. 

Sec. 58. (1) L.A. may require principal of school to 
furnish within a specified reasonable time list of scholars 
in whole or part of school, if any scholar is suffering from 
infectious disease (boarders excluded). 
(2) and (3) Penalties and payments same as sec. 53. 

(4) The term "principal" includes the heads of depart- 

ments, if there be 110 one person in supreme charge. 



198 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 59. (1) Books not to be taken from libraries by 
infected persons, or on their behalf by others. 

(2) No such book is to be returned by infected person, who 

must give notice that book has been exposed to infec- 
tion. L. A. must thereupon destroy book, or disinfect 
it before returning it to library. 

(3) If destroyed, value to be defrayed by L.A. 

(4) Penalty, forty shillings. 

Sec. 60. Costs of hospital maintenance of non-pauper 
patients. Nothing contained in sec. 132 of the 1875 Act 
shall require L.A. to recover cost from non-pauper patients, 
if circumstances in their opinion justify remission of debt. 

Sec. 61. L.A. empowered to remove and provide accom- 
modation for infected persons. 

(1) Whether the I.D.P.A., 1890, has or has not been 

adopted, the powers given by sec. 15 of that Act may 
be utilized to provide necessary accommodation and 
attendants for persons leaving houses in which infec- 
tious disease has existed. L.A. have power to borrow 
for the erection of such places. On certificate of 
M.O.H., such contacts may be removed to the quaran- 
tine house, if person or guardian consents. If person 
refuses, he may be compelled by Order of two Justices. 
If Order be applied for by L.A., they bear cost of 
removal. 

(2) Penalty for disobedience or obstruction, <5. 

(3) "House " includes tent, van, shed, or similar structure 

used for human habitation, as well as any inhabited 
canal boat lying in district of L.A. 

Sec. 61. Amendment of sec. 126, P.H.A., 1875, by adding 
after word " sufferer " the words " or causes or permits 
such sufferer to be so exposed." 

Sec. 62. Penalty imposed on owner or driver who 
conveys infected persons in public vehicles. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACTS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1907 199 
(Infectious Diseases) 

Sec. 63. (1) On becoming aware that he has done so, 
owner or driver must notify M.O.H. Vehicle must be 
disinfected by owner or driver. Penalty for neglect, 5. 
Owner, etc., may recover expenses from infected person, or 
those responsible for his conveyance. 
(2) L.A. on request must disinfect, unless person was 

known to be infected when conveyed, in which case 

owner or driver does so. 

Sec. 65. Extends sec. 124 of P.H.A., 1875, to all persons 
suffering from dangerous infectious disease, who cannot be 
properly isolated so as to prevent spread of infection. 

Sec. 66. (1) On certificate of M.O.H. , or qualified medical 
practitioner, L.A. may require master or owner to disinfect, 
if disinfection of house, or destruction of articles contained, 
would prevent or check spread of infection. L.A. notify 
person that, unless he undertakes to disinfect within 
twenty-four hours, they will do so themselves. 

(2) Disinfection carried out by officers of L.A. under 

direction of M.O.H., if owner or master fail to carry 
out work, or gives consent without aforementioned 
notice from L.A. 

(3) L.A. granted powers of entry for this purpose between 

6 a.m. and 9 p.m. 

(4) Powers to L.A. to compensate for unnecessary 

damage. 

(5) Master includes person controlling house or part of 

one. Where house is wholly let out in separate apart- 
ments, or used solely as a lodging-house, "master" 
includes person receiving rents, either on his own 
account or as agent of another person. 

Sec. 67. (1) Nurses for infected persons may be provided 
by L.A. when they are too ill to be removed, or when there 
is want of hospital accommodation or danger of infection. 



200 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(2) L. A. may charge reasonable sums for such attendance 

as they think fit. 

(3) The provisions of this section to form no pretext for 

non-provision of hospital accommodation. 

Sec. 68. Prohibits holding of wakes over infected bodies 
Penalty on those attending wakes, forty shillings. 



PART V. (ADOPTIVE). 

COMMON LODGING-HOUSES. 

Sec. 69. (1) L.A. may refuse to register lodging-house 
keepers, unless satisfied as to their character and fitness. 
(2) Persons registered after commencement of this Act 
shall remain registered for period not exceeding a 
year. Registration may be renewed. 

Sec. 70. (1) Keeper or his deputy must control and 
supervise such place and its inmates. 

Either one or other must remain in lodging-house from 
9 p.m. till 6 a.m. of following day. 

(2) Forty shillings penalty for non-compliance, unless 
reasonable excuse can be given. 

Sec. 71. (1) L.A. to keep a register wherein name of 
deputy, approved by L.A., is entered. 

(2) More than one deputy may be registered for any 

keeper. 

(3) L.A. may cancel registration, if, in their opinion, 

the individual is unsuitable. 

Sec. 72. L.A. may cancel registration of C.L.H. if 
keeper is convicted of offence under any provision of 
P.H. Acts, or this Act relating to such premises, or any 
bye-law made thereunder. 



REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS ACT, 1874 201 

(Common Lodging -Houses) 

Sec. 73. Persons not registered may be penalised. A 
keeper of a C.L.H., though not registered under sec. 76 of 
P.H.A., 1875, shall be liable to penalties for offences under- 
sec. 86 of that Act. 

Sec. 74. (1) Every C.L.H. registered before or after this 
Act must be provided with the subjoined 

() Water supply sufficieiit for flushing w.e.s and urinals 

used in house. 
(/;) Suitable and sufficient sanitary conveniences, taking 

number of persons into account who could bo received. 
(/) Where both sexes are housed, with proper separate 

accommodation. 

(2) In case of default, L.A. serve notice requiring fore- 

going provisions to be made. 

(3) L.A. may ultimately do work, if it is not done in 

twenty-one days. 

Sec. 75. (1) Every keeper in district to be notified of 
this part of Act within a month of its commencement. 
(2) In sec. 7cS of the 1875 Act, from the words "and the 
L.A. may " and sec. 88 are repealed in the district. 

Note. Other parts of this Act are excluded because they have 
no immediate interest to the Public Health student. 



REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND 
DEATHS ACT, 1874. 

DEATH REGISTRATION. 

Sec. 10. Death registration within five days. Informa- 
tion to be given to registrar by (1) nearest relative, or 
(2) in default of relatives by someone present at the 
death. In return the registrar must give certificate 
authorizing burial. 

Note. That this information does not exclude the medical 
certificate regarding the cause of death, if such can be 
granted by medical attendant. 



202 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 16. Certificate from Coroner when inquest is held. 
When an inquest has been held the Coroner shall, within 
five days, send (to the registrar) a certificate stating the 
finding of the jury, which is to be set down as the cause 
of death. 

Note. The registrar has the power to require an inquest. 

Sec. 17. Coroner may grant burial certificate, inde- 
pendent of the jury's finding, and before it has been made 
known. 

BIRTH REGISTRATION, 

Sec. 1. Births to be registered (within forty-two days) 

by parents, householder, or person present at the birth 
within forty-two days of its occurrence. 

Note. That this in no way must be confused with the terms of 
the Not. of Births Act which is an adoptive Act. 

Sec. 2. Eegistrar may demand information when omission 
to register birth has been made. 

Sec. 3. Information to be lodged regarding new-born 
infants found exposed. The finder, or person having 
charge of such, must inform registrar within seven days. 

STILL-BIRTHS. 

Sec. 18. Not to be buried without proper certificate, 
from (1) practitioner who was at birth, or who examined 
body, and who must certify that child was not born alive, 
or (2) declaration by someone who would in ordinary 
course be required to give information if child had been 
born alive, or (3) order of Coroner, if inquest was held. 

Penalty not exceeding 10. 

On payment of two shillings and sixpence anyone can 
secure a copy of the birth or death certificate. For an 
extended search additional fees are demanded. 



CEMETERY CLAUSES ACT, 1847 203 

(Death Certificates) 

Sec. 20. Practitioner bound to give death certificate, 
stating to the best of his knowledge the cause of death, if> 
that is, the practitioner attended deceased during his last 
illness. Penalty, forty shillings. 

Note. That every registrar may be required to provide the L.A. 
with a return of the births and deaths. For this purpose 
the L.A. may supply forms. The registrar is entitled to 
twopence for each entry. This information supplies the 
M.O.H. with the figures for compiling his vital statistics. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (FRUIT PICKERS' 
LODGINGS) ACT, 1882. 

This Act of two sections enacts in sec. 2 that bye-laws 
made by virtue of sec. 314, P.H.A., 1875, for securing 
decent lodging and accommodation of persons engaged in 
hop-picking within the district, shall be deemed to extend 
to, and authorize the making of bye laws for securing the 
decent lodging and accommodation of persons engaged in 
picking fruit and vegetables. 



CEMETERY CLAUSES ACT, 1847. 

Sec. 10. No part of Cemetery to be constructed nearer 
a dwelling than 100 yards, unless owner or occupier 
gives consent. 

Note. This is the amendment made by sec. 2 of the 1906 Burial 
Act, q.v. 

Sec. 15. Cemetery to be surrounded by good wall at 
least eight feet high. 

Sec. 18. To be properly drained, and if connected to 
sewer, those responsible for its management must give 
consent to connection. 



204 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sees. 20 and 21. Penalties of 50, and 10 daily for 
contaminating stream, canal, reservoir, aqueduct, pond, or 
watering-place. 



BURIAL ACT, 1853. 

Sec. 1. Powers to prevent further burials or opening 
new cemeteries. On the representation of a Secretary of 
State, H.M. may make an Order in Council prohibiting 
further burials in specified places, or prohibiting opening of 
any new burial-ground in any city or town. 

Sec. 2. Unless specially included, above section does 
not apply to burial grounds of Jews or Quakers. 

Sec. 3. Offence to bury in places to which sec. 1 refers 
in Order made. 

Sec. 4. Secretary may permit burials to continue by 
licence in or under any Church or Vault. 

Sec. 5. This Act does not extend to cemeteries or burial- 
grounds established by Act of Parliament. 

Sec. 6. No burial-ground to be opened without consent 
of Secretary of State after an Order has been made (as 
in sec. 1). 

Sec. 7. Register of burials to be kept at all burial- 
grounds. 

HOME OFFICE REGULATIONS FOR BURIAL-GROUNDS OR 
CEMETERIES. 

(1) Grave spaces for persons over twelve, at least 9 
ft. x 4 ft. (4 sq. yds.). 

(2) Grave spaces for persons under twelve, 6 ft. x 3 ft., 
or 4| x 4 (2 sq. yds.). 



PUBLIC HEALTFI (INTERMENTS) ACT, 1879 205 

(Home Office Regulations for Burial-Grounds or Cemeteries) 

(3) There must at least be 1 foot between each grave. 

(4) No unwalled grave to be opened within fourteen 
years in case of those buried above age of twelve ; 

(5) Or within eight years if person be under twelve, 
unless to bury member of same family. In that case a 
layer of earth 1 foot thick shall be left undisturbed above 
previously buried coffin. 

(6) No body to be buried in unwalled grave within 
4 feet of ground surface, unless it contains body of child 
under three, when it shall not be less than 3 feet under 
surface. 

PUBLIC HEALTH (INTEEMENTS) ACT, 1879. 

Sec. 2. (1) Extends sec. 141 of P.H.A., 1875, so as to 
make it apply not only to mortuaries but also to cemeteries. 
Any L.A. may or may not be required by L.G.B. to pro- 
vide a cemetery and make bye-laws for its management 
and any charges. 

(2) L.A.s may acquire, construct, and maintain a cemetery 

within or without their district. Works outside are 
subject to similar provisions as apply to sewage works. 

(3) L.A.s may accept donations of land or money for 

providing cemeteries. 

Note. This Act incorporates the Cemetery Clauses Act, 1847, which 
gives powers to Burial Boards to compulsorily acquire 
land for the construction, drainage, and management of 
new cemeteries. 

MEMORANDUM OP L.G.B. REGARDING P.H.(l.)A., 1879. 

The following circumstances shall guide L.A.s to take 
advantage of the powers furnished by the 1879 Act. 

(1) When there is no further accommodation in existing 
burial-ground. 

(2) When no other suitable burial-ground has been 
provided. 



206 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(3) When the continuance of a 'burial-ground may be 
prejudicial to health, even if the ground is not fully taken 
up. This prejudice applies not only to water supply, but 
to any circumstances whatsoever prejudicial to health. 

(4) Where it is expedient to continue burials for the 
protection of public health in any town, village, place, or 
within certain limits. 

(5) Where the existing burial-ground is unsuitable by 
reason of the site or character of soil or sub-soil. 

(6) Where existing burial-ground is inconvenient of 
access from populous part of district. 



MODEL BYE-LAWS WITH REGARD TO CEMETERIES. 

The P.H.(I.)A., 1879, gives powers to make bye-laws. 

(1) Definition of "grave" and "vault." 

GRAVE means burial-place in the ground formed by 
excavation, and devoid of any internal wall of brick or 
stone, or any other artificial lining. 

VAULT includes all underground burial-places, except 
graves as denned above. 

(2) Construction of Vaults. 

Every vault used for burial must be surrounded by 
walls made of good brick, stone, or other hard and suitable 
material, properly bonded and solidly put together with 
good cement, or with good mortar compounded of clean 
lime and clean sharp sand, or other suitable material ; or 
with good cement, mixed with clean sharp sand. 

(3) Limits number to be buried in one grave. Not more 
than one body to be buried at one time in a grave, unless 
exclusive right of burial has been granted by the Council. 
This does not prohibit burial of two or more persons 
belonging to same family. 



DISUSED BURIAL GROUNDS ACT, 1884 207 

(Model Bye-lav:s u-itk^regard to Cemeteries) 

(4) Forbids opening of grave under circumstances. 
Grave containing body of person under twelve not to be 
opened within eight years for burying body belonging to 
another family. For persons over twelve the limit is 
fourteen years. 

(5) Depth of coffin below surface. 

Every part of coffin to be at least 3 feet below surface 
if body buried be under twelve. If over twelve, distance 
must be 4 feet. 

(6) Distance separating coffins. 

Where more than one coffin is in grave, 1 foot thick of 
closely rammed-down earth must separate them. 

(7) Construction of vault twenty-four hours after sepul- 
ture. Within twenty -four hours after depositing body in 
a vault, coffin must be surrounded by good cement concrete 
at least 6 inches thick. 

Or it may be placed in a separate cell, made either of 
slate or stone nagging at least 2 inches thick, and so con- 
structed and jointed with cement^ or good brickwork in 
cement, as to prevent escape of noxious gas from interior 
of cell. 

(8) Grave to be covered over as soon as possible with 
fresh turf. 

(9) Persons visiting cemetery to behave with decency. 



DISUSED BURIAL GROUNDS ACT, 1884. 

Sec. 2. Interprets " Disused Burial Ground " as a burial- 
ground which has been discontinued as such by an Order 
in Council. 

Sec. 3. No buildings to be erected over such except 
to enlarge place of worship. 



208 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



BURIAL ACT, 1900. 

Enacts that unconsecrated ground set apart for burial 
purposes must not be used for any other purpose, unless 
L.G.B. consent. The Act also directs that the notice of 
intention to bury in a burial-ground shall be given at 
such time, and to such person, as the burial authority 
direct. 



BURIAL ACT, 1906. 

Sec. 1. Deals with burials where dwelling-houses have 
been begun or completed after ground has been used or 
taken for burial purposes. Under such circumstances it 
is not necessary to obtain consent for burials from owner, 
lessee or occupier of said dwelling-houses. 



THE TOWNS IMPROVEMENT CLAUSES 
ACT, 1847. 

The following clauses relating to slaughter-houses are of 
interest to the student. 

Sec. 125. Commissioners may license slaughter-houses 
and knackers' yards. 

Note. Along with this section, sec. 109 of the P.H.A., 1875, must 
be studied. 

MEMORANDUM BY L.G.B. 

The following rules have been designed to assist L.A.s 
in influencing their decision as to granting licences. 

(1) Premises to be erected or used and occupied not to 
be within 100 feet of any dwelling-house. 



THE TOWNS IMPROVEMENT CLAUSES ACT, 1847 209 

(Memorandum by L.G.B.) 

(2) Site should admit of free ventilation by direct 
communication with external air on at least two sides 
of S.H. 

(3) Lairs for cattle in connection with S,H. not to be 
within 100 feet of dwelling-house. 

(4) S.H. in no part to be below surface of adjoining 
ground. 

(5) No room or loft to be erected over S.H. (slaughtering 
booth is included under comprehensive term S.H.). 

(6) Approach to S.H. not to be on an incline of more 
than 1 in 4. 

(7) Approach must not be through dwelling-house. 

(8) S.H. must be provided with adequate tank or 
receptacle for water, the bottom of which tank, etc., shall 
not be less than 6 feet above level of floor of S.H. 

(9) S.H. must be provided with means for through 
ventilation. 

(10) S.H. to be well paved with asphalt or concrete and 
laid with proper slope and channel toward trapped gully. 
Bars of gully grating not to be more than | inch apart. 

(11) S.H. must be efficiently drained. 

(12) Wall surfaces of S.H. to be covered to sufficient 
height (say 9 feet) with hard, smooth, impervious material 
(e.y., cement, glazed bricks). 

(13) No w.c., earth-closet, privy or cesspool to be 
constructed within the S.H. (i.e., the place in which 
animals are actually killed. W.C.s are necessary within 
the premises for the people working about the S.H.). 

(15) No stable, w.c., privy, cesspool, etc., shall com- 
municate directly with S.H. 

(16) All lairs to be properly ventilated, paved and 
drained, and no habitable room to be constructed over 
any lair. 

(17) Dogs not to be kept in a S.H. 

O 



210 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 126. No new S.H. or knacker's yard to be erected 
in future without a licence. Penalty for contravention. 

Sec. 127. Existing S.H.s and knackers' yards must be 
registered within three months after passing of this Act. 
Penalty upon anyone who, after said time and subsequent 
to a week's notice from L.A., continues to occupy un- 
registered S.H. 

Sec. 128. Commissioners must make bye-laws for 
regulating knackers' yards and S.H.s. Such must pro- 
vide for licensing, registering and inspection, prevention of 
cruelty, cleansing of premises, removing of filth at least 
once in every twenty-four hours, adequate water supply, 
and imposition of pecuniary penalties. 

Sec. 129. Licence may be suspended for period not ex- 
ceeding two months, in addition to penalty. 

Licence may also be revoked by Justices for second or 
subsequent offence, and the Commissioners may refuse to 
grant licence to person so dealt with by Justices. 

Sec. 130. Further penalty may be imposed upon anyone 
who continues to use S.H. after it has been dealt with by 
Justices. 

Sec. 131. Power granted to M.O.H. or I.N. or other 
authorized officer to enter for inspecting premises, cattle 
or carcases. If cattle or carcase or part thereof be found 
to be unfit for human food, a Justice, before whom it was 
taken, shall order its destruction or disposal, so that it 
shall not be exposed for sale or used for the food of man. 
Penalty may be imposed. 

Obstruction of Officer in discharge of his duty entails 
penalty. 



VACCINATION ACTS, 1867, 1887, 1898, 1907 211 



VACCINATION ACTS, 1867, 1887, 1898, 1907. 

Sec. 2. Poor Law Guardians to divide unions and 
parishes into districts for vaccination, subject to approval 
of L.G.B. 

Sec. 3. L.G.B. may disapprove of such division. All 
Guardians must appoint public vaccinators. 

Sec. 4. Qualifications of public vaccinators laid down 
by L.G.B. 

Sec. 5. Grants may be paid to such officers in addition 
to their salaries. 

Sec. 6. Payment is only made for vaccinating or re- 
vaccinating children outside his district, or when specially 
requested by Guardians. 

Sec. 7. Children must be vaccinated within six months 
by P.V. or medical practitioner. If requested, P.V. must 
visit and vaccinate. If vaccination not done within four 
months, P.V. must call and offer to vaccinate after giving 
twenty-four hours' notice. Calf lymph as supplied by 
L.G.B. to be employed. If child is born in institution 
such as lying-in-hospital or infirmary, parent cannot be 
compelled to have child vaccinated before six months. 

Children not to be vaccinated if P.V. considers condition 
of house or prevalence of infectious disease will be pre- 
judicial. When for above reason postponement is made, 
P.V. must notify M.O.H. 

Sec. 18. Vaccination not to be postponed for more than 
two months at a time. Certificate of postponement to be 
transmitted to vaccination officer. Parent may demand 
duplicate. 



212 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 20. After three unsuccessful attempts at vaccina- 
tion, or if child has had smallpox, P.V. must, within 
seven days of examination, notify Y.O. 

Sec. 21. Successful vaccination results to be transmitted 
within seven days of examination. Parent entitled to 
duplicate. 

Sec. 22. P.V. cannot demand payments from parents if 
under contract to vaccinate. 

Sec. 23. When practitioner, not a P.V., successfully 
vaccinates, parents transmit filled certificate within seven 
days. 

Sec. 29. Statutory declaration to be made within four 
months after birth of child. Certificate to be delivered or 
sent to V.O. within seven days. If no such declaration 
has been made, penalty for failure to have child vaccinated 
is XI. After conviction, no further proceedings can be 
taken till child is four years old. 

Note. This section embodies the ]908 Act. 

Sec. 31. Children under fourteen not vaccinated, may 
be summoned at instance of V.O. by a Justice, who may 
specify when operation is to be performed, if not satisfied 
with reason for neglect. 

Sec. 32. Prohibits inoculation of smallpox. 



VACCINATION ACT, 1871. 

In the foregoing sections all the amending Acts have 
had their clauses included, but two sections of the 1871 
Act are important and are epitomised. 

Sec. 9. P.V. may vaccinate anyone requesting re- 
vaccination, but must notify him a week after for inspec- 
tion. Failure to respond for inspection entails two 
shillings and sixpence penalty. 



ISOLATION HOSPITALS ACTS, 1893-1901 213 

Sec. 13. M.O. of Poor Law Guardians is entitled to fees 
for vaccinating and re vaccinating persons living in same 
house as smallpox patient attended by him. 






VACCINATION ACT, 1898. 

The two following new sections are important : 

Sec. 7. L.G.B. may require guardians to provide 
vaccination stations during smallpox outbreaks or during 
emergencies. 

L.G.B. may also modify the requirement as to 
vaccinating, at its own home, any child over four months 
old. P.V., if requested to do so by parent or guardian, 
must vaccinate child at its home. 

Sec. 8. Clerk of every L.A. maintaining smallpox 
hospital must keep list which gives condition of persons 
treated as to vaccination as well as their addresses. 

He must allow search of such lists. 



ISOLATION HOSPITALS ACTS, 1893-1901. 

Sec. 2. Application of Act. 

Does not apply to Ireland, London, or Scotland, 

Does not apply to any County Borough. 

Does not apply to Borough with 10,000 or more 
inhabitants unless Council of Borough consent. 

It shall only apply to Boroughs of less than 10,000 if 
Council consent, or if L.G.B. require. 

Sec. 3. C.C. may provide hospital in any district when 
application and proper reasons have been given in favour 
of application. 



214 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 4. Mode in which application should be made. 

(1) By one or more L.A.s having any jurisdiction in the 

county, after a resolution has been passed at a 
meeting specially held for the purpose. 

(2) By not less than twenty-five ratepayers in any con- 

tributory place. 

Sec. 5. (1) Petition must be accompanied by information 

regarding district, and reasons why hospital is required. 
(2) C.C. consider petition and, if satisfied, must hold 
local inquiry to go fully into merits of application. 

Sec. 6. C.C. may instruct M.O.H. to report in- 
dependently of any application, and if his report favours 
erection of hospital, C.C. may proceed as if application by 
L.A. had been made. 

Sec. 7. Local inquiry regarding necessity, site, and 
"hospital district " to be held by committee of C.C. 

Others may be added to this committee if found 
expedient. Notice of proposed inquiry must be given to 
interested persons so that they may appear. 

Sec. 8. Formation of hospital districts. 

(1) A hospital district must consist of one or more local 

areas. A local area is an U. Sanitary L\, or R. 
Sanitary D., or a contributory place. 

(2) C.C. have power to add to or subtract from any local 

area. If there be already in the opinion of the 
C.C. sufficient hospital provision in any local area, 
it cannot be included in a hospital district without 
consent of L.A. 

(3) Any L.A. having jurisdiction within a proposed 

hospital district may appeal to L.G.B. against forma 
tion of, addition to, or abstraction from, the district 



ISOLATION HOSPITALS ACTS, 1893-1901 215 

of any local area. Appeal to be lodged within 
three months of date of order. 

Note. Sub-sec. 1 has had the amending clause of the 1901 
Act embodied. 

Also note that sec. 6 of the 1901 Act gives the L.G. B. 
power to confirm, modify, or disallow the Order after the 
appeal has been considered. 

Sec. 9. Powers of C.C. to make an Order dismissing 
petition after inquiry, or contributory hospital district 
so as to order hospital to be begun. 

e. This embodies the amending sec. 7 of the 1901 Act. 



Sec. 10. Formation of "Hospital Committees" by C.C. 
after district has been constituted. The committee has 
power to provide land, and to maintain, administer, and 
raise money for, and inspect the hospital. 

Sec. 11. Method of acquiring land. 

Sec. 12. Hospital committee to make rules for regulation 
and management of patients and hospital. 

Sec. 13. Hospital must possess ambulance, and be con- 
nected by telephone. 

Sec. 14. Buildings during epidemics. During epidemics, 
or when such are anticipated, the committee may provide 
temporary accommodation, such as sheds, tents, or other 
places. In addition to, or in place of central hospitals, 
small hospitals in cottages, small buildings, or otherwise, 
as they think expedient, may be established. Before 
a permanent hospital is erected, the foregoing may be 
provided. 

Sec. 15. Provision for training nurses. Charges may 
be made for nursing patients outside hospital. 



216 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 16. "Patients' expenses." 

(1) Every patient admitted must be charged. If patient 

comes from beyond hospital district, extra charge 
as contribution towards defraying original cost of 
hospital may be made. 

(2) " Special patients' expenses " to be charged when 

special accommodation is desired. 

Sees. 17 and 18. Deal with hospital and other expenses. 

Sec. 19. Patients' expenses allocated. 

(1) Paupers, or those who have relief within fourteen days 

prior to admission to hospital, have expenses paid by 
guardians. 

(2) Non-pauper patients paid for by L.A. of area from 

which they come, out of local rate. 

(3) Patients coming from outside district, and therefore 

charged extra, are paid for out of local rates by the 
outside L.A. 

(4) Special patients pay their own expenses. 

(5) Cost of burial defrayed by L.A. which sends 

patients. 

Sec. 20. C.C. on application of hospital committee and 
with consent of L.A. may alter Order made by them for 
establishing a hospital. 

Sec. 21. C.C. may contribute to hospital. 

Note. This embodies the amendment of sec. 1 of 1001 Act. 

Sec. 22. C.C. may borrow money for putting this Act 
into effect. 



1901 ACT. 

Sec. 1. Powers of L.A. to transfer hospital to C.C. 
Having provided a hospital under any other Act, a L.A. 



THE PUBLIC HEALTH (WATER) ACT, 1878 217 

may transfer it to the C.C. with consent of L.G.B. and 
C.C. Such hospital to be treated as if it had been 
erected under the 1893 Act. 

Sees. 2, 3 and 4. Deal with expenses. 

Note. The other amending sections, viz., 0, 7 and 8. have been 
embodied in 189ii Act. 



THE PUBLIC HEALTH (WATER) ACT, 1878. 

As this Act amends the P.H.A., 1875, the student is 
referred to sees. 51-70 of that Act. 

Sec. 1. Defines the Act as the P.H.(W.)A., 1878. 
Sec. 2. Act came into force March 1879. 

Sec. 3. Duty of Rural S.A. to provide wholesome 
water. Every occupied dwelling-house must have, within 
a reasonable distance, an available supply of wholesome 
water sufficient for consumption and use for domestic 
purposes of the inmates. 

Note. The foregoing requirement is ascertained by M.O.H. or 
I. N. , who report to Rural S.A. 

The L.A. serve notice on owner of house requiring him 
within a specified time, not exceeding six months, to 
provide such supply and to execute necessary works. 

If the notice be not obeyed, L.A. serve second notice 
informing owner that, if terms of first notice are not 
fulfilled within a month, they themselves will do the work. 
If the second notice is unheeded, L.A. proceed with the 
work. The expenses incurred may be recovered by 
summary means. When two or more houses belonging to 
different owners are involved, the L.A. can apportion 
expenses. 



218 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 4. Gives aggrieved person right to memorialize 
L.A., after second notice, within twenty -one days of its 
service, if he thinks 

(1) The supply is not required. 

(2) The time limit in the notice is too short. 

(3) The S.A. themselves ought to provide supply, or render 
an unwholesome supply wholesome. 

(4) The expenses ought to he borne by the district. 

When the objections include 3 and 4, the L.A. appeal to 
L.G.B., who act as arbiters. When the objections do not 
include 3 and 4, the L.A. go to Court of Summary Juris- 
diction for an Order to proceed with the work. 

Sec. 6. Houses not to be erected or rebuilt without 
sufficient water supply. It shall not be lawful to occupy 
or cause to be occupied " unless and until there is provided 
within reasonable distance of house, such an available 
supply of wholesome water as may appear to such 
Authority on report of M.O.H. or I.N., to be sufficient 
for consumption and domestic uses of inmates of house." 

The owner may, notwithstanding such certificate, appeal 
to a Court which shall summon the L.A. The Court, after 
hearing facts, has power to decide that the certificate 
ought to have been granted, and occupation of dwelling- 
house permitted. 

Contravention by owner entails penalty of 10. 

Sec. 7. Duty of L.A. to periodically inspect its water 
supply. Officers have same powers of entry as are granted 
in the 1875 Act for the detection of nuisances, see sees. 101 
and 103. 

Note. L.A. may secure Magistrate's Warrant to close, etc., 
polluted wells, tanks, cisterns, or pumps. See P.H. A., 
1875, sec. 70. 

The remaining sections are not of interest to the Public 
Health student, referring as they do to rating. 



MIDWIVES ACT, 1902 219 



MID WIVES ACT, 1902. 

Sec. 1. (1) Unless certified under this Act no woman to 
call herself midwife, or to suggest by any name that she 
is certified under this Act. Penalty on summary 
conviction, 5. 

(2) No woman shall habitually and for gain attend any 

woman in childbirth, unless under direction of general 
medical practitioner, unless she is certified. Penalty, 
10. Anyone rendering assistance in emergency is 
exempt, as also are legally-qualified (lady) practitioners. 

(3) No woman to be certified who does not conform to 

rules and regulations laid down under this Act. 

(4) No certified woman to employ as substitute an un- 

certified person. 

(5) The fact of certificate does not entitle a woman to 

grant medical certificates on deaths or still-births, 
or to undertake abnormal cases or disease in con- 
nection with parturition. 

Sec. 2. Certificates which qualify after April 1903. 
Certificate of Midwifery from R.C.P. of Ireland, or 
Obstetrical Society of London, Coombe Lying-in-Hospital 
and Guiness's Dispensary, Rotunda Hospital for Relief of 
Poor, Lying-in Women of Dublin, or other certificate 
approved by Central Mid wives Board. Also if woman 
produces evidence satisfactory to Board that at passing of 
this Act she had been at least for one year in bond-fide 
practice as a midwife, and that she bears a good character. 

Sec. 3. Composition of Central Midwives Board formed 
at instigation of Lord President of Council shall consist 
of Four practitioners, two from R.C.P., London; one by 
R.C.S., London; one, Society of Apothecaries, and one 
from Incorp. Midwives Inst., and two by Lord President 



220 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(one a woman) for three years, and three from each of 
following, Assoc. of C.C.s, Queen Victoria Jubilee Institute 
for Nurses, lloyal Brit. Nurses Assoc. Also for period of 
three years. 

DUTIES AND POWERS OF BOARD. 

To frame rules for regulating their own proceedings, 
issue of certificates, examinations, admission of those 
already in practice, practice of mid wives, conditions under 
which suspensions may be made against continuing to 
practise. Appointment of examiners, places of examination, 
dealing with removal from roll for disobedience of rules 
and regulations or for misconduct, issuing and cancelling 
of certificates. 

Such rules to be valid must be approved by Privy 
Council, who shall, before approving, consult General 
Medical Council. 

Sec. 4. Aggrieved woman may, within three months 
after being notified, appeal to High Court of Justice 
against removal of her name from roll of mid wives. 

Sec. 5. Women appearing for examination to pay a fee 
of not less than <!, Is. 

Sec. 6. Roll of midwives must be provided, giving 
names of those certified under sec. 1, as well as names of 
all others certified under this Act. 

Sec. 7. Appointment of Officials to Midwives Board. 

Sec. 8. Supervising Authorities to be C.C.s or Borough 
Councils, whose duties will be to 

(1) Supervise rnidwives. 

(2) Investigate charges, and should a case be made out against- 
midwife, to report to Central Midwives Board. 

(3) To suspend midwives if it appears necessary to do so ta 
prevent spread of infection. 



MIDWIVES ACT, 1902 221 

(Rules of Central Midwircs Board) 

(4) To report to Board convicted midwife practising in 
district. 

(5) To notify Board of names of midwives who have notified 
their intention to practise. 

(6) Report to Board death of midwife. 

Sec. 9. C.C.s may delegate powers to D.C.s, who shall 
appoint committees for said purpose of executing Act. 

Sec. 10. Every certified midwife to give written notice 
of her intention to practise in any area. She shall give a 
like notice every January. 

Note. This notice is to be given to local supervising authority 
within forty-eight hours after she commences to practise ; 
and notice must give particulars to enable midwife to be 
identified. Failure to give notice, or false information, 
entails penalty of 5. 

Sec. 11. Any woman trying to secure certificate by 
wilful misrepresentation, shall, on conviction, Jse liable to 
a term not exceeding one year's imprisonment. 

Sec. 12. Falsification of midwives' roll entails similar 
punishment. 

Sec. 13. Local Supervising Authority may be prosecutors 
in summary conviction cases. 

Sec. 14. Aggrieved women may appeal to Court of 
Quarter Sessions. 

Sec. 15. Defrayment of expenses. 

Sec. 16. Nothing in this Act respecting midwives to 
apply to legally-qualified (female) practitioners. 

RULES OF CENTRAL MIDWIVES BOARD. 

Made by virtue of sec. 3 of the above Act. These 
rules specify that applicants must be twenty-one, and 
before being placed on the roll must pass an examination. 
Before admission to examination, candidate must produce 



222 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

certificate that she has attended twenty cases, personally 
delivered patient, and made necessary examination of such. 
That she nursed twenty cases for ten days after labour. 
That she has had three months' instruction in certain 
subjects. Hands, clothes, etc., to be clean. Washable 
apparel to be worn in septic cases. Bag to be carried 
containing vaginal syringe, catheter, enema syringe, 
scissors, thermometer, nail-brush, antiseptic for hands and 
one for douching. Hands and arms to be washed before 
each examination. Instruments, etc., to be boiled. After 
puerperal cases thorough disinfection by L.A. and to their 
satisfaction. Must notify all births she attends to L.A. 
within forty-eight hours ; if Notif . Births Act is in 
operation, within thirty-six hours. Midwives not to 
engage in any occupation that may be source of infection. 
If midwife gives drug other than aperient, she must note 
the fact in ner register, giving reason, time and dose. 

In all cases where patient is dying or dead if a dwarf 
or deformed, if there be sickness, puffiness of face, varicose 
veins or other complication ; abnormal presentations, 
excessive bleeding, if placenta or membranes be not 
expelled within two hours, rupture of perinseum or other 
injuries; rise of temperature over 100'4 F., rigors, white 
leg, swellings of abdomen or breasts midwife must send 
for doctor on prescribed form and inform parents, also in 
case of child abnormalities, injuries, etc. 

Notice must be sent to Local Supervising Authority 
when she sends for doctor, after death of mother or 
child, and in still-births. 



EDUCATION (ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS) 

ACT, 1907. 

Sec. 13. Extends powers and duties of Local Education 
Authority under Part III. of Education Act, 1902. 



TUBERCULOSIS REGULATIONS, 1908 223 

Power is given to provide vacation schools, vacation 
classes, play centres, or other means of recreation in the 
school-house or other suitable place in the vicinity. This 
provision applies to children attending public elementary 
schools. Powers are also given for medical inspection 
before or soon after admission of scholars to public elemen- 
tary schools. Also for attending to the physical condition 
and health of such scholars. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (TUBERCULOSIS) 
REGULATIONS, 1908. 

(2) Regulations came into force, January 1909. 

(3) Boards of Guardians to supply forms. 

(4) M.O. of Poor Law institutions must notify M.O.H. 
within forty-eight hours of recognizing symptoms of 
phthisis. Person to be notified for district from which he 
came before going to the institution. 

(5) District M.O.s to send similar notifications within 
forty-eight hours to M.O.H. when cases are in district. 

(6) If notification has been made under (4), the superin- 
tendent of the institution to notify M.O.H. within forty- 
eight hours, giving actual or intended place of destination 
of person leaving institution. 

(7) Relieving officer to notify changes of address of 
phthisis patients notified under (5). 

(8) Fees, one shilling and sixpence to M.O. and threepence 
to relieving officer. For subsequent notifications of the 
same case, M.O.'s fee, sixpence. 



224 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(9) Notification of phthisis case not to apply restriction 
as to employment or means to earn livelihood. M.O.s to 

take necessary steps to disinfect, to supply facilities or 
articles as will prevent spread of infection, to furnish 
spittoons on loan or otherwise, and to distribute leaflets 
containing instructions and advice. 

(12) On application of the L.A., L.G.B. may direct that 
notification by the Poor Law M.O. shall not have effect in 
a particular district. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (TUBERCULOSIS IN 
HOSPITAL) REGULATIONS, 1911. 

(1) and (2) Not important. 

(3) Every Council to maintain and provide supplies of 
notification forms, and to issue them to hospital trustees, 
managers, or other governing bodies for use of medical 
officer (that is, medical man attending patients). 

(4) M.O. of hospital to notify M.O.H. every case of 
Phthisis within forty-eight hours of recognition of disease. 
When patient resides without district, M.O.H. of that 
district to be notified by M.O.H. and medical officer of 
institution to be informed of the step taken. M.O.H. in 
London to send weekly list of all cases, and institutions in 
which they occur to M.O.H. of County. 

(5) Notification may be delivered or sent by post to 
M.O.H. 

(6) Fee for each notification, one shilling, payable by 
Council in whose district the patient is residing. 

(7) No enactment in force shall render persons 
notified liable to any restrictions or loss of employment. 
Council on advice of M.O.H. to disinfect premises 



TUBERCULOSIS REGULATIONS, 1911 225 

or articles, or destroy or dispose of infectious discharges ; 
give facilities, assistance, or articles (spittoons) to diminish 
risk of spreading infection ; appoint officers, and do what 
is necessary to carry out the 1908 and these regulations. 
On advice of M.O.H., leaflets may be distributed contain- 
ing advice regarding precautions, etc., to be taken by 
infected or other persons. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (TUBERCULOSIS) 
REGULATIONS, 1911. 

Extends compulsory notification to Tuberculosis. These 
came into operation in January 1912. 

(1) Gives definitions. 

(2) Extends regulations to England and Wales. Regu- 
lations must be put into operation by every Council. 

(3) Notification forms to be provided and sent to every 
medical practitioner and school medical officer in area. 

(4) Every practitioner must notify cases within forty - 
eight hours of his recognizing them as phthisis, unless he 
knows that notification has been made under regulations 
of 1908 or 1911 just quoted. Notification to be sent to 
M.O.H. of district in which the patient lives. 

Same notification applies to school medical inspector 
with regard to school children in public elementary 
schools. 

(5) Same as (5) of previous regulations. 

(6) Fee for notification, two shillings and sixpence. No 
fee payable to school medical inspectors. 

(7) M.O.H. to act as in (4) of previous regulations. 

p 



226 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

M.O.H. must keep register of notifications under these 
and former regulations. No one to have access to this 
register unless some person authorized by Council, or school 
medical inspector or officer of L.G.B. M.O.Hs. in London 
to act as in (4) of previous regulations. 

(8) On receiving notification M.O.H. to make inquiries, 

and to take such steps as are necessary to prevent spread 
of infection, and to remove conditions favouring infection. 
No such steps to be taken with regard to Poor Law 
institution or other hospital. 

(9) Councils, on advice of M.O.H., may appoint officers, 
offer advice, provide assistance and facilities reasonably 
required for detecting disease and preventing its spread. 
Poor Law institutions and other hospitals excepted. 
Leaflets may be published and distributed. 

(10) Notification is not required from medical 
practitioner acting as (1) Poor Law M.O. or district 
M.O. ; (2) M.O. of hospital (because notification is provided 
for in other regulations) ; (3) M.O. of H.M. Prison, or 
M.O. of reformatory school ; (4) M.O. of lunatic asylum; 
(5) medical examiner of candidates for offices or appoint- 
ments ; (6) medical examiner of insurance company ; (7) 
medical officer examining crews and passengers of emigrant 
ships. 

(11) Exempts from notification those resident outside 
England and Wales. 

(12) Inmates of any building, ship, tent, war- vessel, 
boat, shed, or similar structure belonging to H.M. also 
exempt from notification, 



ACTS APPLICABLE TO UNITED 
KINGDOM. 



THE SALE OP FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 1875. 
Sec. 1. Repeals former Acts. 
Sec. 2. Definitions of " rood "and "Drugs." 

FOOD shall include every article used for food or drink 
by man, other than drugs and water. 

include medicines for internal or external use. 

^s*^ f -*.' 

the artide injurious tAeaHh o* 1^^ "^ 
to be sold under penalty in enc h caso oT^O ' A 'n H 
first offence every other shall enta , L pr L nn t f 
per,od not exceeding six months with hard LbZ 

^^ 

other reason than 



C ~ of 



to heaith is added fosake of 



228 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

preparation of food or drug. If addition made to increase 
bulk, or to conceal bad quality, it is an offence. 

(2) Patent and proprietary medicines. 

(3) Foods or drugs compounded as required. 

(4) Poods or drugs unavoidably mixed with extraneous 
matter in process of collection or preparation. 

Sec. 7. Compounded foods and drugs must be composed 
of ingredients specified. Penalty, 20. 

Sec. 8. Protection by label which must be distinct and 
legible. A seller may protect his sale of a mixed or 
compounded article, if a distinctly and clearly printed 
label announces the fact that mixture, etc., had taken 
place. 

Sec. 9. Abstraction of part of article before sale, entails 
penalty not exceeding <20 if abstraction be to defraud 
purchaser. But seller protects himself if he announces 
abstraction before the sale takes place. 

Sec. 10. Public Analyst must be appointed subject to 
approval of L.G.B. 

Note. Made compulsory by sec. 3 (1) S. F. and D.A., 1899. 

Sec. 11. An analyst may act for more than one district. 

Sec. 12. Any purchaser of a food or drug has the power 
to have an analysis made. The purchaser himself pays the 
fee (not exceeding 10s. 6d.) to the analyst appointed by 
the L.A. 

Sec. 13. Samples for analysis may be obtained by any 
M.O.H., S.I., inspector of weights and measures, market 
inspector or police constable. 

Upon taking sample it must be sent to analyst. 

Note. Commissioners of Customs, L.G.B. and Bd. of Agriculture 
have by virtue of sec. 1 (3) and sec. 2 of the 1899 Act the 
same powers as above-mentioned officers. 






THE SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 1875 229 

Sec. 14. How samples are dealt with after being taken. 
Purchaser must notify seller that the article is bought 
for purposes of analysis. 

He shall divide it into three parts, and if requested to 
do so, give one to the seller. 

Each part to be marked and sealed as the nature of the 
article permits. 

One of the two parts taken away by sampling officer to 
be sent to analyst, the third kept for future reference. 

Sec. 16. Provision for sending article to analyst by 
post. If analyst lives more than two miles distant from 
sender of sample, it may be sent as a " registered parcel." 

Note. This section was amended by substitution of word ' ' parcel " 
for ' letter " by sec. 15 of the 1899 Act. 

Sec. 17. Person refusing to sell any article to sampling 
officer liable to penalty not less than 10. 

Sec. 18. Form of certificate must be as set forth in the 
Act. 

Sec. 19. Analyst must report his work quarterly to 
L.A. 

Sec. 20. On learning from analyst that article is not of 
the nature, substance and quality, sampling officer em- 
powered to take proceedings before Justices having juris- 
diction in district. 

In Scotland before the Sheriff or Sheriff-substitute. 

Sec. 21. Analyst's certificate to be considered sufficient 
evidence, unless defendant demands presence of analyst as 
witness. The defendant may tender himself and his wife 
who may be examined on his behalf. 



230 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 22. The Justice (Sheriff in Scotland) may order 
third sample to be sent to Commissioners of Inland 
Revenue to be analysed. 

He may do so at request of either party. 

Sec. 23. Persons convicted may appeal to the next 
General or Quarter Sessions of the Peace. 

Note. This provision applies to England and Ireland. Sec. 33 (11) 
of this Act gives power in Scotland to appeal to High 
Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh. 

Sec. 24. Proof by defendant of exception or provision. 

If an article has been proved to have been sold in a mixed 
state, the defendant may rely upon any exception or pro- 
vision contained in the Act. The onus of proving this 
rests upon the defendant. 

Note. The exceptions and provisions referred to are contained in 

sees. 5, 6 (1), (2), (4), 8 and 25 of this Act. Sec. 6, 1879 

Act. and sec. 20, 1899 Act. 

Sec. 25. Defendant to be discharged if he prove that he 
bought the article in the same state as sold by him, and 
with a warranty from the person who sold it to him. 

Unless he gives due notice to the prosecutor that he 
intends to use above defence, defendant is liable to pay 
costs of prosecutor. 

Note. The -warranty must be specific. " New and pure milk to 
be supplied each and every day for six months ; the milk 
to be delivered twice daily." " Pure " was held to be no 
warranty, whereas " warranted genuine milk, which has 
all the cream on," was held to be a good warranty. 
Sec. 20 (5), 1899 Act, provides that, if a warranty is to be 
relied upon as a defence, a copy of the warranty must be 
sent to the prosecutor seven days after the service of the 
summons. 

Sec. 26. Application of penalties. 

Note. This section applies to England and Ireland, and provides 
that penalties shall be applied towards execution of this 
Act. 

Sec. 33 (9) for Scotland. Penalties to be recovered 
before Sheriff and paid to Police Assessment. 



FOOD AND DRUGS ACT AMENDMENT ACT, 1879 231 

Sec. 27. To forge a certificate or warranty ; to make 
wilful misapplication of warranty or use false label entails 
various penalties. 

Sec. 28. Proceedings by indictment and contracts not to 
be affected. 

Sec. 29. Expenses of executing Act to be borne by local 
rates. 

See sec. 33 (7), P.H.(S.)A., where expenses are borne by 
Police Assessment. 

Sec. 30. Tea to be examined by Customs on importation. 
If mixed with other substances or with "exhausted tea," it 
shall not be delivered, unless with sanction of Customs Com- 
missioners on such terms as they shall see fit to direct, 
either for export, ship's stores, or home consumption. If 
the tea is found unfit for human food, it may be forfeited 
or disposed of as Commissioners may direct. 

Sec. 31. By exhausted tea is meant that which has been 
deprived by steeping, infusion, decoction, or other means 
of its proper quality, strength or virtue. 



SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT AMENDMENT 
ACT, 1879. 

Sec. 2. In sale of adulterated articles it is no defence to 
allege that purchase was merely for analysis. Neither 
shall it be a good defence to prove that the food or drug, 
though defective in nature, or in substance, or in quality, 
was not defective in all three respects. 



232 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 3. Sample of milk may be procured for analysis at 
place of delivery. 

Note. The sample in this case is taken in course of delivery at 
place of delivery, and is not purchased. 

Sec. 14 of the 1899 Act extends this provision to all other 
articles of food, but in all articles of food, save milk, the 
sampling must be done at the request, or with the consent, 
of the purchaser or consignee. Samples of milk may 
therefore be taken without consent or request. 

Sec. 4. Penalty for refusing to comply with require- 
ments of foregoing section not exceeding 10. 

Sec. 5. Section 17 of the 1875 Act shall include any 
street or open place of public resort. 

Sec. 6. For purposes of sec. 6 of 1875 Act no other 
adulteration than addition of water to be allowed beyond 
reduction under proof of twenty-five degrees for brandy, 
whisky, or rum, and thirty-five degrees for gin. 

Sees. 7, 8 and 9. Unimportant to Public Health students. 
Sec. 10. Altered by section 19, 1899 Act, q.v. 



MAEGABINE ACT, 1887. 

Sec. 3. Definitions of butter, margarine, margarine 
cheese, milk-blended butter and cheese. (The amendments 
of this section by the 1899 Act are embodied.) 

Butter is the "substance usually known as butter, made 
exclusively from mil'c or cream, or both, with or without 
salt or other preservative, and with or without the 
addition of colouring matter." Not to contain more than 
16 per cent, of water. 

Margarine is "any article of food, whether mixed 
with butter or not, which resembles butter, and is not 



MARGARINE ACT, 1887 233 

milk-blended butter." Not to contain more than 16 per 
cent, water and 10 per cent, butter fat. 

Margarine Cheese. "Any substance, whether com- 
pound or otherwise, which is prepared in imitation of 
cheese, and which contains fat not derived from milk." 

Milk-blended Butter. " Any mixture produced by mixing 
or blending butter with milk or cream other than con- 
densed milk or cream." Not to contain more than 24 per 
cent, of water. 

Cheese. "The substance usually known as cheese, con- 
taining no fat otherwise than from milk." 

Sec. 4. Offences against this Act by dealers in margarine 
liable on first offence to penalty not exceeding .20 ; second 
offence, <50 ; and third or subsequent offence, 100. 

Sec. 5. If employer can prove that he used all precau- 
tions by way of advising his employees, they and not he 
may be prosecuted. 

Note, This section is seldom employed, and is unsuitable for 
Scottish Summary procedure. 

Sec. 6. Marking of cases necessary. Every closed or 
open package containing margarine shall be branded or 
durably marked " Margarine " on top, bottom, and sides 
in capital letters not less than f in. square. (This applies 
to wholesale transactions.) If such be exposed for retail 
sale, a label clearly visible to the purchaser must be 
attached to each parcel, the letters on which label must 
bear the word "Margarine," the letters not being less 
than 1^ ins. square. And when margarine is sold to a 
purchaser, it must be enclosed in a paper wrapper having 
the word " Margarine " with each letter not less than 
^ in. square. 

Note. This section, by amendments of the 1899 and 1907 Acts, is 
made to extend to margarine cheese, and milk-blended 
butter. 



234 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 7. Warranty or invoice protects vendor, who must 
give due notice to prosecution that such a defence is to be 
employed. 

Sec. 8. Margarine, margarine cheese, and milk-blended 
butter, whether imported or manufactured in this country, 
when forwarded by public conveyance must be duly 
consigned as such. 

Note. Officers of Customs, M. O.H., etc., have powers to take 
samples from such consignments to have them analysed. 

Sec. 9. All manufactories of margarine, margarine 
cheese, butter, and milk-blended butter must be registered 
with L.A. 

Sec. 10. Samples may be taken without purchase 
when margarine, margarine cheese, butter or cheese, or 
substances purporting to be such, as well as milk-blended 
butter when exposed for sale and not properly marked, 
and in the case of milk-blended butter when not properly 
named. 



SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 1899. 

Sec. 1. (1) Prohibits importation of the following articles 
under specified circumstances : 

Margarine and margarine cheese, except in packages 
conspicuously marked with the names of contents. 

Adulterated or impoverished milk or cream, except in 
packages or cans conspicuously marked to indicate that 
contents have been so treated. 

Condensed, separated or skimmed milk, except in tins 
or other receptacles labelled " Machine Skimmed " or 
" Skimmed Milk " in large and legible type. 

Butter containing more than 16 per cent, water. 



SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 1899 235 

Margarine containing more than 16 per cent, water and 
10 per cent, butter-fat. 

Milk-blended butter containing more than 24 per cent, 
water. 

Milk-blended butter, except in packages conspicuously 
marked with name approved by Bd. of Agr. and Fisheries. 

Butter, margarine, and milk-blended butter which 
contain a preservative prohibited by any regulation, or an 
amount in excess of that permitted by such regulation. 

Note. -The amendments of the 1907 Act have been embodied to 
save repetition. 

(2) Defines " Importer " as including any person who, 

whether as owner or consignor or consignee, agent, or 
broker, is in possession of, or in any wise entitled to, 
the custody or control of the article; Commissioners 
of Customs to take prosecutions under this section. 

(3) Com. of Customs shall, after consulting with Bd. of 

Agr., take such samples as they think necessary to 
enforce foregoing provisions. 

(4) Sample to be divided into three parts: one sent to 

importer, second to principal chemist of Government 
Laboratories, and the third retained. 

(5) The chemist's certificate shall be deemed sufficient, 

unless defendant requires person who made analysis 
to be called as witness. 

(6) When Com. of Customs are of opinion that an offence 

under this section has been committed, they shall 
communicate facts to Bd. of Agr. with name of 
importer and place of consignment. 

(9) For the purposes of this section any article of food 
shall be held to have been adulterated or impoverished, 
if it has been mixed with any other substance, or if 
any part has been abstracted to affect injuriously its 
quality, substance, or nature. The addition of pre- 



236 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

servative or colouring matter non-injurious to health 
in such quantity as not to be injurious, is not reckoned 
as adulteration or impoverishment. 

Note. The L.G.B. may after inquiry make regulations as to use 
of preservatives in the manufacture or preparation for 
sale of butter, margarine, or milk-blended butter (sec. 7, 
1907 Act). 

When the Chief Chemist certifies that the sample taken 
is margarine or milk-blended butter, the Commissioners 
must notify importer thereof. (Sec. 5 (4), 1907 Act.) 

Sec. 2. Kules for L.G-.B. or Board of Agriculture for 
sampling articles of food. On behalf of the consumer, the 
L.G.B. act ; Bd. of Agr. and Fisheries act on behalf of the 
general interests of agriculture in the U.K. Either 
Authority may direct one of its officers to take samples. 

But the article must be divided into four parts, the 
fourth being sent to the Board at whose instigation the 
analysis is being made. 

The other three parts are dealt with as in previous 
sections. L.A. pay fee of analyst. 

The result of the analysis is to be communicated to the 
L.A., who have power to take the necessary proceedings. 

Sec. 3. L.G.B. and Bd. of Agr. have powers to take 
samples in default of L.A. 

Note. Every L.A. must now appoint a competent analyst, and 
may be compelled by L.G.B. to do so. 

Sec. 4. Bd. of Agr. given powers to make regulations as 
to analysis of milk, cream, butter and cheese. 

SALE OF MILK REGULATIONS, 1901. 

Milk. (1) Where a sample of milk (not being sold as 
skimmed, or separated, or condensed milk) contains less 



SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 1899 237 

(Sale of Butter Regulations, 1902) 

than 3 per cent, of milk-fat, it shall be presumed, for 
the purposes of the S.F. and D.A.s, 1875-1899, until the 
contrary is proved, that the milk is not genuine, by reason 
of the abstraction therefrom of milk-fat or the addition 
thereto of water. 

(2) Where a sample of milk (not being milk sold as a 
skimmed, or separated, or condensed milk) contains less 
than 8 '5 per cent, of milk solids other than milk-fat, it 
shall be presumed, for the purposes of the S.F. and D.A.s, 
1875-1899, until the contrary is proved, that the milk is 
not genuine, by reason of. the abstraction therefrom of 
milk solids other than milk-fat, or the addition thereto of 
water. 

Skimmed or separated milk. (3) Where a sample of 
skimmed or separated milk (not being condensed milk) 
contains less than 9 per cent, of milk solids, it shall be 
presumed, for the purposes of the S. F. and D. A.s, 1875-1899, 
until the contrary is proved, that the milk is not genuine, 
by reason of the abstraction therefrom of milk solids other 
than milk-fat, or the addition thereto of water. 

SALE OF BUTTER REGULATIONS, 1902. 

Where the proportion of water in a sample of butter 
exceeds 16 per cent, it shall be presumed, for the purposes 
of the S.F. and D.A.s, 1875-1899, until the contrary is 
proved, that the butter is not genuine by reason of the 
excessive amount of water therein. 

The Regulation of the sale of milk-blended butter to be 
found in sec. 9, Butter and Margarine Act, 1907. 

Limit, of moisture in butter, margarine and milk-blended 
butter. See sec. 4, B. and M.A., 1907, also sec. 5, which 
latter has been embodied in sec. 1 of this Act. 



238 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Prohibition of adulterants in butter factories. See 
sec. 3, B. and M.A., 1907. 

Restriction as to amount of butter fat in margarine. 
Ten per cent., sec. 8, 1899 Act. 

Sec. 5. Extends Act of 1887 to include margarine cheese. 

The amendment has been embodied. 

Sec. 6. Marking of margarine and margarine cheese and 
milk-blended butter. The marking or brand to be on 
the package, and not solely on a label, or other 
attachment. 

The letters to be legible and distinct, each ^ in. long, 
with no other printed matter on the wrapper when any 
one of the foregoing is sold by retail. 

Sec. 7. Provisions as to manufacturers of, and dealers in. 
margarine and margarine cheese. Wholesale dealers, and 
every occupier of factory, to keep register, showing 
quantities and destinations of consignments. Register 
must be open to inspection by officer of Bd. of Agr. 

Failure to keep such or to keep it up to date, making 
false entry, fraudulently omitting any entry or refusing 
to produce register when required to do so, entails penalty 
on summary conviction of 10 for first offence, and 50 
for subsequent offence. 

Note. The provisions of sec. 9 of the Margarine Act, 1887, 
shall be extended by this section to any place where the 
business of wholesale dealer in margarine or margarine 
cheese is carried on. 

The registration of a manufactory or other premises 
shall be forthwith notified by L.A. to Bd. of Agr. 

Sec. 8. Restriction on amount of butter-fat in margarine. 

Ten per cent., but this does not apply to contracts entered 
into before 20th July 1899. 



THE SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 1890 239 

Sec. 9. Every person selling milk or cream in a public 
place must have Ms name and address on receptacle or 
vehicle. 

Sec. 10. Consignor to receive portion of sample. 
Samples, taken in course of delivery or transit when 
divided, to have one part sent as registered parcel or 
otherwise to consignor if his name be on can or package. 

Sec. 11. Marking of condensed, separated or skimmed 
milk. Every tin containing such must bear a label 
clearly visible to purchaser, on which the words " Machine 
Skimmed Milk " or " Skimmed Milk " are printed in large 
and legible type. Penalty on conviction not exceeding 
10. 

Sec. 12. Notice of mixtures when made on labels must 
be clear and not obscured by other matter. This does not 
hinder the use of a trade mark, nor of labels continuously 
used for seven years prior to commencement of this Act. 

Sec. 13. Amends sec. 14 of S.F. and D.A., 1875. The 
amendment has been embodied. 

Sec. 14. Samples taken in course of delivery. This 
section extends sampling to other articles of food, and has 
been embodied in sees. 3 and 4 of the 1879 Act. See 
also sec. 10 of this Act with regard to sending sample to 
consignor. 

Sec. 15. Amends sec. 16, 1875 Act. Amendment 
already embodied. 

Sec. 16. Obstruction of officer in discharge of his duty, 
or attempting to bribe or induce him not to do his 
duty, entails for first offence penalty of 20 ; second, 50 ; 
subsequent offence, 100. 



240 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 17. Penalties for offences under these Acts. Same 
as above. If the person is liable to a fine of 50, and 
the Court believes the fine will not meet circumstances of 
the case, punishment may be imprisonment for three 
months with or without hard labour. 

Sec. 18. Articles sold in tins or packets which are un- 
opened and duly labelled need not be sold except in their 
unopened condition. 

Sec. 19. Time for proceedings and regulations as to sum- 
mons. When articles of food or drugs are purchased for 
test purposes, prosecution shall not be instituted twenty- 
eight days after the date of the purchase. The day of pur- 
chase is not included. 'In any summons under these Acts, 
particulars of the offence and name of prosecutor must be 
furnished, as well as copy of analyst's certificate. Fourteen 
clear days must elapse between the date of the service of the 
summons and the appearance of the defendant in Court. 

Sec. 20. Provisions as to use of warranty or invoice as 

defence, and proceedings against warrantor. 

(1) A warranty or invoice shall not be available unless 

defendant has, within seven days of service of sum- 
mons, sent to purchaser a copy of such, and has in- 
formed him that he is to rely upon such defence. The 
defendant must also supply name and address of person 
from whom warranty or invoice was received. A like 
notice as that sent to purchaser must be sent to the 
warrantor. 

(2) The warrantor is entitled to appear in Court to give 

evidence. The Court may adjourn case to give this 
person an opportunity to appear. 

(3) If defendant be a servant, and proves that he had no 

reason to believe that the article was any other than 



THE SALE OF FOOD AND DRUGS ACT, 1899 241 

(The Public Health (Milk and Cream) Regulations, 1912) 

that demanded by prosecutor, he may rely upon sec. 

25, 1875 Act, and sec. 7, Margarine Act, 1887, just as 

his employer might have done. 
(4) When defendant is discharged under the provisions of 

sec. 25, 1875 Act, as amended by this Act, prosecution 

may also be taken in the district in which the article 

of food or drug was purchased. 
(6) A false warranty given in writing to the purchaser 

entails same penalties as section 16 of this Act. 

Sec. 21. Court may send article, with or without 
request of either side, to Commissioners of Inland 
Ee venue for analysis. 

Sec. 22. Analyst's certificate is sufficient evidence, unless 
prosecutor requires that official to come and give evidence. 
A copy of every certificate is to be sent to the prosecutor 
at least three clear days before the return day. 

THE PUBLIC HEALTH (MILK AND CREAM) 
REGULATIONS, 1912. 

These Regulations are made under sec. 1, P. H. (Regulations as to 
Food) A., 1907, and are directed to L. A.s in England and Wales and, 
amongst others, M.O.H.s, public analysts, and dairymen and whole- 
sale dealers in milk and cream. Their object is to prevent the use of 
preservatives in milk and to restrict their use in cream. With the 
exception of Art. V. (1), which comes into operation on 1st January 
1913, the Regulations came into force on 1st June 1912. 

PART I. 

ART. I. Definitions: "Preservative substance'' is any substance, 
preparation, or solution which, when added to milk or cream, is 
capable of retarding the onset of sourness or decomposition, or is 
capable of neutralising acidity (sourness) in milk or cream. 

"Thickening substance" means sucrate of lime, gelatine, starch 
paste, or any other substance which, when added to cream, is capable 
of increasing its thickness : Provided that neither cane nor beet 
sugar shall be regarded as a preservative or as a thickening substance. 

" Milk " includes separated, skimmed, condensed, and dried milk. 

" Cream " is that portion of milk rich in milk-fat which has risen 

Q 



242 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

to the surface of milk on standing and has then heen removed, or 
which has been separated from milk by centrifugal force. 

"Preserved cream " means cream containing 40 per cent, or more 
by weight of milk-fat, to which has been added (1) boric acid, borax, 
or a mixture of those preservative substances, or (2) hydrogen per- 
oxide, in amount not exceeding O'l per cent, by weight. 

" Seller" includes any person who exposes or offers for sale, or has 
in his possession for the purpose of sale. 

"Foreign" used in relation to milk, cream, or preserved cream 
means brought from a place situate elsewhere than in the United 
Kingdom, the Channel Islands, or the Isle of Man. 

ART. II. Commencement of Regulations. 

PART II. 

ART. III. (1) Forbids anyone to add, or order, or permit the 
addition of preservatives to milk intended for sale for human con- 
sumption. 

(2) Forbids anyone to sell, or expose, or offer for sale, or have in 
his possession, milk to which preservatives have been added. 

ART. IV. (1) Forbids anyone to add, or order, or permit the 
addition of (a) any thickening substance to cream or preserved 
cream ; (i) any preservative substance to cream containing less than 
40 per cent, by weight of milk-fat; (fi) to cream containing 40 per 
cent, or more by weight of milk-fat, any preservative substance other 
than (i. ) boric acid, borax, or a mixture of these ; (ii.) hydrogen per- 
oxide, in amount not exceeding O'l per cent, by weight, if the cream 
is intended for sale for human consumption. 

(2) Forbids anyone to sell, or expose, or offer for sale, or have in his 
possession, cream to which a thickening or preservative substance has 
been added in contravention of (1). 

ART. V. (1) Sellers of preserved cream for human consumption 
must describe it in every invoice, trade list, etc., as (a) preserved 
cream (boracised), or (6) preserved cream (peroxidised), as the case 
may require. No word suggesting that it is a cream without pre- 
servative must be used. This provision comes into operation on 1st 
January 1!)13. 

(2) Receptacles for preserved cream intended for human con- 
sumption, deposited for sale, or despatched, or delivered to a 
customer, must bo labelled as indicated in the schedule to the regu- 
lations. In the case of preserved cream containing boric acid, borax, 
or a mixture of these, the amount of these, calculated as boric acid 
(ILjBO.j), must be accurately stated as not exceeding the limit specified 
on the label as prescribed in the schedule. 

In refreshment rooms, etc., where the preserved creum is delivered 
for consumption on the premises, the amount need not be stated on 
the label if a large legible notice is exposed stating that the cream 
sold for consumption on the premises is preserved cream, or if a 
similar statement is made on each bill of fare, or if by some other 
adequate means similar information is publicly given. 



MILK AND CREAM REGULATIONS, 1912 243 

(The Public Health (Milk and Cream) Relations, 1912) 

ART. VI. Directs L. A.s to enforce and execute the Regulations in 
this part of the Order and to authorise the making of inquiries and 
taking of any steps necessary for securing the observance of the 
Regulations in their districts. 

Before a L.A. institute proceedings for contravention of any of the 
Regulations in this part they must give the person contravening an 
opportunity of furnishing an explanation in writing or otherwise as 
they may appoint, and duly consider the explanation and all the 
circumstances of the case. 

ART. VII. Empowers the taking of samples of milk, cream, pre- 
served cream, articles resembling milk or cream, or of substances 
which appear to be intended for addition to milk or cream, by officers 
under the direction of the L.A. in accordance with the provisions of 
sec. 14, S.F.D.A., 1875. 

All facilities are to be given by owners or occupiers of premises in 
which samples are to be taken or inquiries made. 

PART III. 

ART. VIII. Forbids the importation into England and Wales of 
foreign milk containing preservatives and foreign creams in the con- 
dition described in Art. IV. The importation of foreign preserved 
cream not contained in a vessel or receptacle labelled as described in 
the schedule is also forbidden. 

AUT. IX. Relates to the powers and duties of Officers of Customs 
and Excise. 

PART IV. 

ART. X. Deals with the determination of differences in connection 
with the Regulations by the L.G.B. 

ART. XI. The powers given by the Regulations are in addition to, 
not in derogation of, any other powers conferred by regulations under 
the P.H. (Regulations as to Food) A., 1907. 

SCHKDULE. 

1. Receptacles containing preserved cream must be labelled with 
an adhesive "declaratory label." 

2. The labels must be printed in black type and be of the size 
mentioned in 3. They must bear the words " Preserved Cream con- 
taining Boric Acid not exceeding per cent.," or " Preserved Cream 
Peroxidised," as the case may require, and nothing else. If a label 
with the first wording is used, the maximum amount per cent, of 
boric acid must be stated. 

3. The size of the label depends upon the capacity of the receptacle ; 
if this be less than ^ pint, the label must be 1 inch by 2g inches ; if 
more than ^ pint, 3 inches by 5. 

4. The label must be attached so that the whole of it is visible and 
clearly legible : it must not be overlapped or rendered obscure. 



244 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

5. The label miiBt not be either over the mouth of or beneath the 
receptacle. 

6. Any label other than the declaratory label placed on a receptacle, 
and every wrapper for a receptacle or package enclosing a vessel con- 
taining preserved cream, on which there is a reference to preserved 
cream, imist show both words in letters of equal size. 

7. No misleading trade descriptions must be placed on labels re- 
lating to preserved cream. 



BUTTER AND MARGARINE ACT, 1907- 

Sec. 1. (1) Registration of factories and consignments 

shall now apply to 

(a) Butter Factories premises on which by way of trade 
butter is blended, re-worked or subjected to any other 
treatment, but not so as to cease to be butter; 

(b) Milk-blended Butter Factories. Milk-blended butter 
is any mixture produced by mixing or blending butter 
with milk or cream (other than condensed milk or cream), 
or on which there is carried on the business of a whole- 
sale dealer in milk-blended butter. 

(2) Provisions of sec. 7, 1899 Act, relating to registers 

and consignments of margarine shall now apply to 
milk-blended butter. 

(3) Premises are not to be used as butter factories if 

they communicate with or form part of any other 
business which must be registered under the S.F. and 
D. A.s or sub-sec. (6) of this section. Communication 
by a public street or road is not prohibited. 

The L.A. shall remove from the register of butter fac- 
tories those used contrary to provisions of this section. 

Premises used prior to commencement of this Act ex- 
cluded, if and as long as Bd. of Agr. and Fisheries so 
direct. 

Sec. 2. Inspection of factories. (1) Officers of Bd. of Agr. 
and Fisheries and L.G.B. have full powers at reasonable 
times to enter and inspect registered premises, and to take 
samples not only of articles manufactured, but of ingredients 
employed in manufacture. 



BUTTER AND MARGARINE ACT, 1907 245 

(2) The authorised officers of the L. A. have similar powers, 

but only in the case of butter factories. 

(3) If the Bd. of Agr. and Fisheries have reason to believe 

that any process of manufacture, blending, re-working 
or any wholesale dealing, which under the S.F. and 
D.A.s cannot be carried on except in registered pre- 
mises ; or that on any premises butter is by way of 
trade either made or stored, and that for the purposes 
of those Acts inspection is desirable, the Board may 
specially authorise any of their officers to enter the 
premises, and his powers shall be the same as if the 
premises were registered. 

(4) When under this section a special authority is required, 

an officer of the Board or of a L.A. shall not be en- 
titled to exercise any of his powers under this section, 
unless, if so requested by or on behalf of the occupier 
of the premises to be entered, he produces his 
authority. 

Sec. 3. Prohibition of adulterants in butter factories. 
If any substance intended to be used for the adultei'ation 
of butter is found in any such factory, the occupier is guilty 
of an offence. If any oil or fat capable of being so used is 
found, it shall be deemed to be intended to be so used, 
unless the contrary is proved. 

Sec. 4. Limits of moisture in butter, margarine and 
milk-blended butter. Sixteen per cent., 16 per cent., 
and 24 per cent, respectively. 

Sec. 5. Already embodied in sec. 1, 1899 Act. 

Sec. 6. Regulations as to moisture in butter, see 
page 237. 

Sec. 7. Regulations as to preservatives. See page 242. 

Sec. 8. Marking of wrappers, etc., used in connection 
with margarine. 



246 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

No paper or package enclosing or containing margarine, 
nor any label attached to a parcel, or any advertisement 
or invoice of margarine, shall describe margarine by any 
other name than either "margarine," or a name combining 
the word "margarine" with a fancy or descriptive name 
approved by Bd. of Agr. and Fisheries, and printed in type 
in the same colour and not larger than the word 
"margarine." 

Sec. 9. Regulation of sale of milk-blended butter shall 
be dealt with under such name or names as may be 
approved by Bd. of Agr. and Fisheries, under conditions of 
Acts of 1887 and 1899, applicable to the sale or description 
of margarine, with substitution of an approved name for 
word "margarine." In addition to the name on the 
wrapper, the percentage of moisture contained in the milk- 
blended butter to be mentioned. 

Milk-blended butter only to be consigned under that 
name. 

Milk-blended butter, when sold, or exposed, or kept for 
sale, must not be described under any other name. 

Sec. 10. Names of margarine. Bd. of Agr. and Fisheries 
shall not approve of a name for margarine, if it refers to or 
is suggestive of butter or anything connected with the 
dairy interest ; nor shall a name be approved as a name 
under which milk-blended butter may be imported or dealt 
with. 



CANAL BOATS ACT, 1877. 

Though these Acts only apply to England and Wales they 
must be professed by all Students. 

Sec. 1 . No canal boat, unless registered under the Act, 
may be used as a dwelling, and then only by the number 
of persons of the age and sex for which it is registered. 



CANAL BOATS ACT, 1884 247 

Sec. 2. The L.G.B. shall make regulations, which they 
may revoke from time to time 

(a) For registration. 

(6) For marking by letters or numbers. 

(c) For fixing the number, age and sex of persons allowed to 
use the boat. 

(d) For promoting cleanliness, and for prevention of disease. 

Sec. 3. Each boat must be registered and marked by 
the word "Registered," and also by some letters or 
numbers. 

Sec. 4. Deals with infectious disease on board a canal 
boat. 

Sec. 5. Gives power of entry, and the master must 
produce his certificate on demand. Obstruction entails a 
penalty. 

Sec. 6. Provides for the education of children. 

Sec. 7. The L.G.B. directs who shall be the registration 
authority. 



CANAL BOATS ACT, 1884. 

This is an Act to amend the Act of 1877. 

Sec. 1. A certificate is rendered invalid if any struc- 
tural alterations are made affecting the conditions upon 
which the certificate was granted. 

Sec. 2. Imposes a penalty for contravention of the regu- 
lations issued in 1878 (see below). 

Sec. 3. The provisions of the Act and regulations must 
be enforced by every L.A. through whose district any 
canal passes. The L.A. must report annually to the 
L.G.B. 



248 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 4. The L.G.B. must report annually to both Houses 
of Parliament as to the working of the Acts and the 
observance of the regulations, and to this end inquiries 
must be made by inspectors specially appointed. 

Sec. 7. Boats must be conspicuously lettered, marked, 
or numbered either on both sides or on the stern. 



REGULATIONS (Canal Boats). 

The following are the important points in the regula- 
tions which the L.G.B. (empowered by sec. 2) issued in 1878. 

Cabins must be waterproof, dry and clean. 

Fore cabin must be at least 80 cubic feet and well 
ventilated. 

After cabin must be at least 180 cubic feet and well 
ventilated. 

One cabin must have a stove and chimney. 

3 gallons of drinking water must be kept. 

60 cubic feet air-space must be allowed for every person 
over twelve years of age. 

40 cubic feet air-space must be allowed for every person 
under twelve years of age. 

Cabins must be painted every three years. 

Bilge water must be pumped out daily. 

Master must notify infectious disease to 

(1) The L.A. of his intended destination. 

(2) The L.A. of the district through which he is passing. 

The expression " wide boat " means a boat of not less 
than 7 feet 6 inches beam. 

" Narrow boat " means a boat of less than 7 feet 6 inches 
beam. 

" Flyboat " means a boat worked by shifts on canals. 



RIVERS POLLUTION PREVENTION ACTS, 1876-1893 249 



RIVERS POLLUTION PREVENTION ACTS, 
1876-1893. 

The Act of 1893 is merely an Act to explain the Act of 
1876, but one section has been altered. The 1876 Act is 
here given with the correction of the said section. 

The Public Health Acts deal also with Rivers Pollution 
Prevention as follows: Scotland P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sec. 
127; England P.H.A.(A.)A., 1890, sec. 47. 

This is an important Act, as its administration is 
mainly in the hands of the M.O.H. The Act is divided 
into the following parts : 

Part I. Solid matters. 

Part II. Sewage. 

Part III. Mining and manufacturing refuse. 

Part IV. Administration, legal proceedings, and defini- 
tions. 

Part V. Applies the Act to Scotland. 



PART I. SOLID MATTERS. 

Sec. 2. Every person who permits the solid refuse of any 
manufacturing process or quarry, or any rubbish or cinders, 
or any other waste or putrid solid matters to enter any 
stream, so as to (1) interfere with its flow, or (2) to pollute 
its waters, shall be deemed to have committed an offence 
against this Act. 



PART II. SEWAGE POLLUTION. 

Sec. 3. (As amended by sec. 1 of the R.P.P.A. 1893.) 
It is an offence to permit to flow into any stream any solid 



250 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

or liquid sewage matter. If a channel discharging sewage 
into a stream was used before the passing of the Act, the 
person at fault must use every practicable means to purify 
the sewage before discharging it. 

If the channel belongs to the L.A., the L.A. is held 
to have committed an offence knowingly, and a person 
discharging sewage into such channel is not guilty of an 
offence. 

The L.G.B. may grant the L.A. time to adopt some 
means of purification of its sewage before discharging it. 



PART III. MINING AND MANUFACTURING 
POLLUTION. 

Sec. 4. It is an offence to permit to flow into any stream, 
any poisonous, noxious, or polluting fluid from any manu- 
facturing process. If the channel were in use before the 
passing of the Act, it is no offence, provided that every 
practicable means has been adopted to purify the material 
discharged. 

Sec. 5. This section is similar to the preceding, but 
applies to coal mines, regarding both solid and liquid 
refuse. 

Sec. 6. Proceedings can only be taken by the L.A. with 
the consent of the L.G.B. If anyone interested appeal to 
the L.A. to take proceedings, and the L.A. refuse, he may 
then appeal to the L.G.B., who hold an inquiry and then 
direct the L.A. how to proceed. 



RIVERS POLLUTION PREVENTION ACTS, 1876-1893 251 

PART IV. ADMINISTRATION, LEGAL 
PROCEEDINGS, ETC. 

Sec. 7. L.A.s with sewers under their control must give 
manufacturers facilities for carrying liquids from their 
factories into the sewers. 

Except (tt) Where the liquid would damage the sewers. 

(b) Where the liquid would diminish the value of 

the sewage. 

(c) Where the sewers are only sufficient for the 

requirements of the district. 

Sec. 8. Every L.A. has power to enforce the provisions 
of this Act in relation to any stream passing through their 
district. They may proceed against any other L.A. or 
any person causing pollution or interference with the 
flow of the stream whether the offence be committed 
within the district or not. 

Sec. 9. Gives certain powers to the Conservancy Board 
appointed under the L.A. Conservancy Act, 1868. 

Sec. 10. Empowers a County Court to require hy Order 
any person to abstain from the commission of an offence 
under this Act. This section also fixes the penalties for 
making default in complying with an Order. 

Sec. 11. Gives either party power to appeal from the 
County Court to a High Court of Justiciary. 

Sec. 12. A certificate by a qualified inspector of the 
L.G.B. is conclusive evidence that the best practicable 
means have been adopted for the purification of sewage. 
Such certificate remains in force for two years, and the 
applicant pays all expenses with regard to the certificate. 

Any person aggrieved may appeal to the L.G.B., who 
may confirm, or reverse, or modify the decision of the 
inspector. 



252 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 13. No proceedings are to be instituted till after 
two months' written notice has been given to the offender. 

No proceedings are to be taken under this Act while pro- 
ceedings for the same offence under another Act are 
pending. 

Sec. 16. Nothing in this Act is to legalise any act or 
default, which, but for this Act, would be deemed to be a 
nuisance or contrary to law. 



*/ 

Sec. 19. Where any L.A. has power to carry sewage into 
the sea or any tidal waters, nothing done in pursuance of 
such powers shall be deemed to be an offence against this 
Act. 



DEFINITIONS. 

Sec. 20. Solid matter shall not include particles of 
matter in suspension in the water. 

Polluting shall not, include innocuous discoloration. 

Stream includes the sea to such an extent, and tidal 
waters to such a point, as determined by the L.G.B. after 
local inquiry, save, as aforesaid, it includes rivers, streams, 
canals, lakes, and watercourses, other than watercourses 
at the passing of this Act mainly used as sewers and 
emptying directly into the sea or tidal waters, which have 
not been determined to be streams within the meaning of 
the Act. 

Part V. Applies the Act to Scotland. 

Part VI. Applies the Act to Ireland. 



THE PUBLIC HEALTH (SHIPS) ACT, 1885. 

An Act to amend the provisions of the P.H.A., 1875, 
with relation to Ships and Port S.A.s. 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE (NOTIFICATION) ACT, 1889 253 

Sec. 2. Extends sec. 110 of the 1875 Act. Sec. 110 of 
the 1875 Act shall refer not only to nuisances, but also 
for the purpose of such infectious diseases and hospitals as 
are dealt with in sees. 120, 121, 124, 125, 12C, 128, 131, 
132 and 133 of the P.H.A., 1875 Act. 

Sec. 3. L.G.B. authorised to permanently constitute Port 
Sanitary Authority by Order in any case in which they 
are by the 1875 P.H.A. authorised to constitute a P.S.A. 
by Order, which will not require confirmation by Parlia- 
ment. 

Note. Sees. 287-292 of the 1875 Act contain the facts relating to 
constitution, jurisdiction and expenses of Port S. A.s. 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE (NOTIFICATION) 
ACT, 1889. 

This was originally an adoptive Act, but in Scotland it 
has been made compulsory by sec. 44 of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897 
(page 36), and in England and Wales it has been made com- 
pulsory by The Infectious Disease Notification (Exten- 
sion) Act of 1899. This last-named Act does not apply 
to Ireland, and the 1889 Act is therefore still "adoptive" 
in that country. The I.D.(ISr.)A., 1889, does not apply 
to London, but sees. 55-57 of the P.H.(L.)A. incorporate 
practically every section contained in it. There is one 
point, however, which should be noted : In London, if a 
case occurs in a hospital (except a hospital under the 
Metropolitan Asylums Managers) to which patients are 
admitted on the certificate of the M.O.H., the notification 
certificate must state the place from which, and the date 
on which, the patient was removed. 

Sec. 3. Compulsory notification and the persons by whom 
it must be made. Notification is called for when any of 



254 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

the notifiable diseases exist in any building used for human 
habitation, including ships, tents, vans, etc. The follow- 
ing, however, are exempt : 

(1) Infectious disease hospitals. 

(2) Ships belonging to His Majesty's Government. 

(3) Ships belonging to any Foreign Government. 

Notification to the M.O.H. must be made forthwith on 
becoming aware that any person is suffering from a notifi- 
able disease by the following persons : 

(1) The head of the patient's family, or 

(2) The nearest relative, or 

(3) Relatives or persons present in the building in attendance 
on the patient, or 

(4) The occupier of the building, or 

(5) Every medical practitioner attending or called in to visit 
the patient. 

Penalty for failure to notify, forty shillings. 

Note. Every medical practitioner called in to visit the patient 
must notify. 

If several practitioners have been called in, each one 
must notify. 

The persons primarily liable are (1) the medical 
practitioner, (2) the head of the household. The others 
may be exempt from fine if they prove that they had 
reasonable grounds for believing that notification had 
already been made. 

For the list of notifiable diseases, see sec. 6 of this Act. 

Sec. 4. Fees for certificates, which must be on forms 
prescribed by the L.Gr.B. The form of certificate which 
must be used by medical practitioners is prescribed by the 
L.G.B. Such forms are supplied free of charge to all 
medical practitioners residing or practising in the district. 

The fee for each certificate is two shillings and sixpence 
if the case occur in private practice, and one shilling if it 
occur in his practice as medical officer of any institution. 
When there are two or more M.O.H.s in the district, the 
certificate must be sent to the M.O.H. of the area in 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE (NOTIFICATION) ACT, 1889 255 

which the case occurs, or to such area as the L. A. may 
direct. 

Sec. 6. List of the notifiable diseases. 

(1) Small-pox; (2) Cholera; (3) Diphtheria; (4) Mem- 
branous Croup ; (5) Erysipelas ; (6) Scarlatina or 
Scarlet Fever ; (7) The fevers known as Typhus, 
Typhoid, Enteric, Relapsing, Continued, and Puer- 
peral ; or (8) Any other infectious disease which the 
L.A. may add. 

Sec. 7. Procedure in adding to the list of notifiable 
diseases. 

(1) Fourteen clear days' notice must be sent to each 

member of the L.A. 

(2) The L.A. meet and consider the addition (permanent 

or temporary). 

(3) It must then be advertised in a local newspaper, and 

by handbills, and every medical practitioner in the 
district must receive notice. 

(4) Notification does not become compulsory till one week 

after the first advertisement has appeared. 
The approval of the L.G.B. is necessary alike for the 
addition to, or the removal from, the list. 

Note. Addition may be made cf such diseases as Epidemic 
Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis. In Scotland and England it 
is now compulsory to notify Phthisis. 

During Small-pox epidemics, Chicken-pox may be 
added. Measles and Whooping Cough are now and again 
added to maintain control over cases notified. 

In the case of suddenly arising emergency, e.g., plague, 
the procedure is the same, but three clear days instead of 
fourteen need only be given, and the resolution must state 
that the Order is temporary, and give the cause of the 

emergency. 

Sec. 8. Certificates to the M.O.H. must be in writing or 
print. 



256 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

These may be left at his residence or office, delivered to 
him personally, or forwarded by post. 

Sec. 11. The M.O.H. may receive notification fees. 

The fact that the M.O.H. is a member of the L.A., or 
the M.O.H. of the L.A., does not disqualify him from 
receiving the fee. 



INFECTIOUS DISEASE (NOTIFICATION) 
EXTENSION ACT, 1899. 

This Act extends the I.D. (Notification) A., 1889, to 
districts in which it has not been adopted. 

Sec. 1. Extends the I.D. (N.) A., 1889, to every Urban, 
Rural, and Port Sanitary Authority in England and 
Wales, whether that Act has or has not been adopted 
before the commencement of this Act. 

Sec. 2. Exemption of Huddersneld. This Act shall not 
repeal, alter, or affect the provisions of any local Act 
which before the passing of this Act was in force within 
the Countv Bur^h of Huddersneld. 



CHOLERA, PLAGUE AND YELLOW FEVER 
REGULATIONS. 

The L.G.B. are empowered to make these regulations 
by the various Public Health Acts as follows : 

Scotland, P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sees. 78-88. 

England and Wales, P.H.A., 1875, sees. 134-140. 
P.H.A., 1896, sees. 1-6. 
P.H.A., 1904, sec. 1. 

Ireland, P.H.(I.)A., 1878, sees. 149-154. 

London, P.H.(L.)A., 1891, sees. 82-87. 

For the procedure to be followed in formulating and 



CHOLERA, PLAGUE AND YELLOW FEVER 257 

(Duties of the Customs 0/S^er) 

adopting such regulations, the student should read the 
above-mentioned sections, noting that the L.G.B. have 
power to make additional regulations for speedy burial of 
corpses, house to-house visitation, etc. They may also 
make regulations regarding the destruction of rats (see 
page 264). 

The regulations are divided into three parts as 
follows : 

A. Ships arriving from foreign ports. Parts I., //., ///. 
and I V. 

B. Outward bound ships. Parts /., //. and III. 

C. Coasting ships. 



PAET I. DEFINITIONS. 

(A) SHIPS ARRIVING FROM FOREIGN PORTS. 

An Infected Ship is one that has or has had on board 
within seven days a case of Cholera or Plague, or within 
eighteen days, in the case of Yellow Fever. 

A Suspected Ship is a ship coming from an infected 
port, and has not had on board a case of Cholera, Yellow 
Fever or Plague, within the above-mentioned number of 
days 

PART H. (ARTS. 2-5). 

DUTIES OF THE CUSTOMS OFFICER. 

He must ascertain if any ship has called at an infecteil 
port. 

He must detain any "infected " or "suspected " ship. 

He must order the captain of such a ship to moor at a 
certain spot. 

R 



258 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

He must notify the L.A. of such action. 

Such detention ceases as soon as the M.O.H. has visited 
and examined the ship, or if such examination has not 
been commenced within twelve hours after the ship has 
been anchored. 



PAKT III. (ARTS. 6-28). 

MOORING PLACE AND DUTIES OF THE M.O.H. 

Art. 6. Every P.S.A. must fix a mooring place for 
infected ships. Every P.S.A. and every L.A. within 
whose district persons from ships coming from foreign 
ports are likely to be landed, must fix such mooring place 
for ships, and must make provision for the reception of 
persons suffering from cholera, yellow fever or plague. 

Note. The mooring place must be within the jurisdiction of such 
L.A. , and can only be fixed with the consent of the Chief 
Customs Officer of the port. 

Art. 7. The L.A. must send their M.O.H to examine 
any ship detained by the C.O. 

Note. By Part I. the Customs Officer must in the first place send 
notice to the L.A. 

Art. 8. The M.O.H. may visit and examine any ship he 
suspects, and order the master to moor at a certain place. 

Note. He may do this whether or not the ship has been visited 
by the C.O. ; and the master of the ship must obey his 
orders as to precautions to be taken, etc. 

Art. 9. If M.O.H. finds a ship infected or suspected, 
he must give two certificates and one notification as 

follows . 

(1) A certificate to the master of the ship. 

(2) A duplicate which he retains or gives to the L.A. 

(15) A notification to the L.G.B. of the arrival of the ship. 



CHOLERA, PLAGUE AND YELLOW FEVER 259 
{Mooring Place and Duties of the M. 0. E. ) 

Art. 10. On receiving the certificate, the master must 
moor at the place fixed by the L.A. 

Art. 11. No one to leave such ship till the M.O.H. has 
examined all persons on board. 

Note. This does not apply to the Customs Officer or other 
persons executing this order. 

Art. 12. The M.O.H. must certify every person infected 
or suspected. His examination should take place as soon 
as possible after he has certified the ship to be " infected " 
or " suspected." 

Art. 13. Persons so certified must be removed, if in a 
fit condition, to hospital, and must remain in hospital till 
the M.O.H. certifies him free from the disease. If the 
patient is unfit to be removed, the ship remains subject to 
the control of the M.O H., whose written consent is 
required before anyone can leave or be removed from the 
ship. 

Note. This is only when person is suffering from cholera, yellow 

fever, or plague. Suspected persons can only be detained 

two days as follows. 

Art. 14. Suspected patients can only be detained two 
days. Any person certified by the M.O.H. as suffering 
from a disease which might prove to be cholera, plague, 
or yellow fever, may be detained on board or in hospital 
for two days. 

Art. 15. Notification of all persons landing from an 
infected ship. No person on board an infected ship shall 
be allowed to land until he has satisfied the M.O.H. as to 
his name and intended address. 

Note. The M.O.H. gives these particulars to the clerk of the 
L.A., who forwards them to the L.A. of the intended desti- 
nation of such person. If the person will arrive at destina- 
tion before forty-eight hours, the M.O.H. transmits such 
particulars direct to the M.O.H. or L.A. of the intended 
destination. 



260 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Art. 16. The M.O.H. must take steps to prevent spread 
of infection. 

Note. The first duty of the M.O.H. is to visit the ship, and 
examine persons on board. He then grants certificate, 
and immediately takes steps to prevent spread of infection, 
such as sealing up all drinking water, ordering the 
pumping out of bilge water, etc. 

Art. 17. A body dead of disease is disposed of by the 
M.O.H. or L.A. If any death from cholera, plague, or 
yellow fever occur on board while the ship is de- 
tained, the M.O.H. or L.A. have power to dispose of 
the body. 

Arts. 18-19. The duty of disinfection of the ship and 
articles on board is laid upon the master. He must have 
all infected bedding, clothing, etc., disinfected or destroyed, 
and shall disinfect the ship and articles contained therein 
to the satisfaction of the M.O.H. 

Note. If disinfection is not carried out within a reasonable time, 
the L.A. may see to it themselves. 

Art. 20. The M.O.H. has power to serve a certificate 
preventing the landing of persons from certain ships as 

follows : 

(1) If the ship is suspected. 

(2) If the passengers are in filthy or unwholesome condition. 

(3) If there has been a high mortality amongst the rats on 
board, or if any rat is infected with plague. 

Art. 21. When a certificate has been given under 
Art. 20, no person is allowed to leave the ship, 
unless he satisfies the M.O.H. as to his name and in- 
tended address. 

Art. 22. All water- tanks in cholera ships must be sealed 
or emptied. They must be sealed if emptying them would 



CHOLERA, PLAGUE AND YELLOW FEVER 261 

(Mooriivj Place and Duties of the M. 0. H. ) 

endanger the ship, and the seal must not be removed until 
the M.O.H. grants permission. 

All bilge water must be pumped out. 

The M.O.H. may direct the master to empty all potable 
water, and the L.A. must provide a fresh supply. 

Art. 23. The master shall destroy all rats on board an 
infected or suspected ship, but the expenses are borne by 
the L.A. This is done under the supervision of the 
M.O.H. (see Rats Orders, page 264). 

Art. 24. The master shall take precautions to prevent 
the access of rats from the ship to the shore. This in all 
infected and suspected ships, or ships on board which 
there has been a high rat-mortality. 

Note. If any rat is certified by the M.O.H. to be suffering or has 
died from plague, the master shall destroy all rats on 
board as in Art. 23. To prevent access of rats from ship 
to shore, mooring chains, ropes, etc., should be tarred and 
fitted with "guards." 

Art. 25. Provides for the destruction of mosquitoes or 
their larvae in ships infected or suspected by reason of 
yellow fever. 

Art. 26. All persons on board must answer truthfully 
all questions asked, and no person must knowingly give 
false information. Penalty for obstruction, 100, and a 
daily penalty of 50 for continuance. 

Art. 28. The L.A. may perform disinfection, etc., at the 
cost of the master. The L.A. may, at the request of, or 
in substitution for, and at the cost of the master, perform 
the following duties ; but they shall not derive any profit 
from the same, neither shall they recover an amount ex- 
ceeding 20. 

(1) Cleansing or disinfection of the ship. 

(2) Disinfection or destruction of bedding, clothing, etc. 

(3) Emptying and cleansing water-tanks, etc. 



262 PUBLIC HRALTH LAW 

PART IV. SIGNALS ON INFECTED AND 
SUSPECTED SHIPS. 

The master of every infected and suspected ship shall, 
when within the three-mile limit, cause to be displayed the 
following signals : 

During the day (i.e. between sunrise and sunset), a 
yellow and black flag hoisted at the mast-head. 

During the night, an equilateral triangle of lights, at 
least 20 feet above the hull of the ship, and arranged as 
follows : 

(1) Each light must be 6 feet from the others. 

(2) The light at the apox to be white, and the two base lights 
red. 

Penalty for non-compliance, .100, and a daily penalty 
of X50 for continuance. A similar penalty is imposed for 
breach or obstruction of any regulation. 



PART I. DEFINITIONS. 

(B) OUTWARD-BOUND SHIPS. 

Cholera or plague-affected area means an area within the 
U.K. so affected. 

Specified article means clothing, rags, etc. 

Local commodity used in relation to a specified article 
means an article kept for the purpose of manufacture, 
trade or industry within a cholera or plague-affected area. 



PART II. DUTIES OF THE M.O.H. AND THE 

MASTER. 

Arts. 5-6. Examination of all persons on board by the 
M.O.H. Where an outward-bound ship is within a plague 
or cholera-affected area, the M.O.H. may, or, on requisition 



CHOLERA, PLAGUE AND YELLOW FEVER 263 

(Duties of the M.O.H. and the Master) 

from tbe master, shall, examine every person and all cloth- 
ing, etc., on board. Every person on board must answer 
truthfully all questions put by the M.O.H. 

Art. 7. Certificates of such examination by the M O.H. 
The M.O.H. may, or, on requisition from the master, shall, 
grant a certificate to the master, if, after such examination, 
he is of opinion that there is no case of cholera or plague 
on board. 

The certificate may state that disinfection has been 
carried out, and so facilitate the admission of the vessel 
into pratique in foreign ports. 

Note. " Pratique " is a licence to a ship to hold intercourse at a 
port after being certified as clear of infectious disease. 

Art. 8. Provisions as to illness on board outward-bound 
ships. If any person on board is found to be suffering 
from cholera or plague or any illness which may prove to 
be such, the person shall be removed to hospital, and the 
M.O.H. shall take steps to prevent the spread of infection. 
The ship shall not proceed to sea until the work of disinfec- 
tion, etc. (if required), has been completed to his satis- 
faction. 

Art. 9. The master must prevent the access of rats 
from the shore to the ship. This while the ship is lying in 
a plague-affected area. 

Note. The precautions are similar to those already mentioned in 
Art. 24. 

Art. 10. The master shall take all precautions regard- 
ing drinking-water. 

Art. 11. The master shall pay the L.A. for certificates 
of examination of persons on board as follows : 

10 persons, including the master and crew, 10s. 

30 do., do. 20s. 

100 do., do. 40s. 

Over 100 do., do. 60s. 



264 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



PART III. DEALS WITH SPECIFIED ARTICLES. 

Except under certain conditions, certain specified articles 
may not be conveyed out of a cholera or plague-affected 
area by means of an outward-bound ship. 

Where a certificate of efficient disinfection is required in 
the case of a specified article, the owner shall pay to the 
L.A. the sum of five shillings. 

COASTING SHIPS. 

The expressions "coasting ship" and "coast voyage" 
mean respectively a ship employed, or in the course of pre- 
paration for employment, in trading or going, and a voyage 
beginning and ending, within the limits of the United 
Kingdom, Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man. 

The precautions with regard to coasting ships are similar 
to those on outward-bound ships, except that it is com- 
pulsory on the M.O.H. to visit the ship and examine all 
persons on board only when he has reason to suppose her 
to be infected. 

RATS ORDERS. 

In virtue of the powers granted by sec. 79 of the P.H. 
(S.)A., 1897 (page 54), and by sec. 134 of the P.H.A., 
1875 (page 166), the L.G.B. have issued the following 
regulations regarding the destruction of rats in connection 
with shipping. 

(1) Infected vessels. On the arrival in port of a vessel 
whereon during the voyage there has been a case of, 
or a suspected case of plague, measures should be taken 
to secure the destruction of rats on board the vessel. 
Until this has been done, endeavour should be made 



CHOLERA, PLAGUE AND YELLOW FEVER 265 

(Recent Regulations regarding Rats with respect to Plague) 
to prevent access of rats from the ship to the shore, by 
placing guards on cables and hawsers in use for mooring 
purposes. 

(2) Suspected vessels. On the arrival in port of a vessel 
which has called at an infected port, strict inquiry 
should be made as to the mortality among the rats on 
board during the voyage, and if possible a dead rat 
should be secured for bacteriological examination. 

(3) Any vessels. Any vessel in a port should be sub- 
jected to the same investigation if there has occurred 
a high rat-mortality on board. 

(4) The rats themselves if affected with plague should 
not be handled. 

(5) All places frequented by rats should be disinfected. 

(6) Rats in a seaport. If a seaport town is invaded by 
plague the Authorities should endeavour to secure the 
destruction of all rats in the town, not least those in- 
habiting the docks and quayside warehouses. Measures 
should be taken to guard against shore-rats making 
their way on board vessels lying in the port, and 
attempts made to destroy all rats on board ships about 
to proceed on their voyage. Captains of such vessels 
should be urged to take steps during the voyage for 
the destruction of rats that may have remained alive 
on board their vessel notwithstanding the action of 
the L.A. 

RECENT REGULATIONS REGARDING RATS 
WITH RESPECT TO PLAGUE. 

The L.G.B. for Scotland has issued an Order to the L. A.s 
containing regulations issued by the Board in pursuance 



266 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

of their powers under Part IV. of the P.H.(S.)A., 1897. 
These regulations deal with the destruction of rats, not 
only in connection with shipping, but rats found in the 
district of any L.A. 

The Order is not so elaborate as the Memorandum issued 
to the L.A.s in England, which details methods of bacterio- 
logical examination, etc. The following, however, represent 
the chief points to be attended to by the L.A.s in Scotland 
and the L.A.s in England. 

The L.A. shall take measures to ascertain whether there 
is or has been recently any disease or unusual mortality 
among rats within their district ; and if such be found to 
exist, the L.A. shall at once report the facts to the L.G. B., 
and take steps to ascertain whether any of such animals 
are suffering from plague. 

If plague is found, or suspected to exist, within the 
district, or in any neighbouring district, or in any ship 
lying in any harbour or other water within or ex adverso 
of the district, the L.A. shall at once take steps to in- 
clude plague amongst the notifiable diseases (see sec. 7 of 
the I.D.N.A., page 255), and adopt all necessary pre- 
cautions to prevent the dissemination of the disease, and 
for that purpose shall take measures 

(rt) To disinfect all places, and to disinfect or destroy all 

articles, that may have been exposed to infection. 
(b~) To destroy all rats in the locality. 
(c) To prevent their entrance into ships, houses, and other 

premises. 
(dj To remove all deposits or accumulations of rubbish, 

refuse, manure, or other materials likely to attract such 

animals: and 
(c) Generally to do everything calculated to stamp out the 

disease. 



If plague is not found or suspected to exist among rats 
as aforesaid, the L.A. may take measures 

(a) To destroy all rats in the locality. 

(6) To prevent their entrance into ships, houses, and other 
premises. 



HOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS 267 

(c) To remove all deposits or accumulations of rubbish, 
refuse, manure, or other materials likely to attract such 
animals. 

Arrangements have been made by the L.G.B. for bac- 
teriological examination of material from suspected cases 
of plague, whether (1) from the living person or the dead 
body, (2) from rats suspected to be suffering from, or have 
died of, plague. 

Xote. In view of the recent circulars issued by the L.G.B. 
relating to the extermination of rats, it may be noted that the 
United States Agricultural Department have just issued a 
circular recommending barium carbonate as the cheapest and 
most effective rat poison. In the small quantities used for 
poisoning rats, it is harmless to larger animals. The further 
merit is claimed for it that the animals before dying usually 
leave the premises in search of water. The bait is prepared 
by mixing one part of the barium carbonate with about five 
parts of oatmeal, and adding enough water to make a stiff 
paste. Phosphorus and arsenic have been found in practice to 
be excellent, especially the former. Danysz virus has not 
always given reliable results. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (PORT) ACT, 1896. 

Sec. 1. L.G.B. assign powers to Port Sanitary Authority. 
Any powers under the I.D.P.A., 1890, with necessary 
modifications are assigned by the L.G.B. to Port Sanitary 
Authorities. 



HOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS. 

Acts 1885, 1890, 1894, 1903, H.W.C.A. 
Housing, Town Planning, etc., Act, 1909. 



268 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

H.W.C.A., 1885. 

This Act was repealed by the Act of 1890, with the 
exception of the sections given below, viz., sees. 3, 7, 8, 9 
and 10. 

Sec. 3 is of little importance. 

Sec. 7. Every L.A. must put in force the powers given 
them under these Acts. 

Sec. 8. Amends sec. 90 of the P.H.A., 1875, and em- 
powers any L.A. to make bye-laws with respect to "houses 
let in lodgings." 

Sec. 9. Deals with tents and vans. 

Sec. 10. Refers to the manner of making bye -laws 
authorised by sec. 8. 

H.W.C.A., 1890. , 

This is an Act to amend and consolidate the various 
Acts relating to artisans' and labourers' dwellings and 
the housing of the working-classes. It is divided into 
seven parts. 

Part I. Deals with unhealthy areas, schemes for im- 
provement, etc. 

Part II. Deals with unhealthy dwellings, orders for 
closing and demolition, obstructive buildings, etc. 

Part III. Deals with working-class lodging-houses, their 
provision by the L.A., etc. 

Part IV. Supplemental. 

Part V. Applies the Act to Scotland. 

Part VI. Applies the Act to Ireland. 

Part VII. Deals with repeal and temporary provisions. 



HOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS 269 



PAET I. UNHEALTHY AREAS. 

Sec. 3. This part of the Act is not applicable to Rural 
Districts. 

Sec. 4. The L.A., if their resources are sufficient, shall 
proceed to make a scheme for the improvement of unhealthy 
areas. Unhealthy areas include houses, courts, alleys, etc. 

Sec. 5. The M.O.H. is bound to report to the L.A. if he 
receives a complaint regarding the unhealthiness of any 
area from 

(1) Two or more J.P.s. 

(2) Twelve or more ratepayers. 

Note. If M.O.H. fail to make report, see sec. 16. 

Sec. 7. The L.A. draw up an improvement scheme. 
They advertise it for three consecutive weeks in some 
local papers, stating where the plans may be seen. 

The L.A. serve notices on the owners and occupiers. 
These notices are sent after the last day on which the 
advertisement appeared. 

Note. The notice must set forth that it is proposed to take the 
land for an improvement scheme, and shall, except in the 
case of the occupier, require an answer. 

Sec. 8. The L.A. now petition the L.G.B. Such 
petition must be accompanied by maps, plans, etc. 

The L.G.B. hold a local inquiry, and if satisfied, 

The L.G.B. grant a Provisional Order, but this Order is 
not valid until it has been confirmed by Parliament. 

Note. Sec. 9 deals with costs and is omitted. 

Sec. 10. When the L.A. fails to proceed, or comes to a 
resolution that it will not proceed with the scheme, they 
must give their reasons to the Confirming Authority, who 
may nevertheless direct that a local inquiry be held. 

Note. See sec. 10 of the H.T.P. A., 1909. 



270 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 11. Special provisions for London. Before any 
scheme in the County or City of London is launched, it 
must be shown that those who are about to be unhoused 
must have houses provided for them within the district. 

In Boroughs and districts outside of London, the require- 
ments to provide for the unhoused are obligatory. 

Sec. 12. The L.A. must carry out the scheme as soon as 
practicable after Parliament has confirmed the Provisional 
Order. 

Note. Dwellings erected by the L.A. under this part of the 
Act must be sold within ten years, or otherwise as deter- 
mined by the L.G.B. 

Sec. 16. If the M.O.H.'s report does not satisfy the 
complainers, they may appeal directly to the L.G.B. , or if 
the M.O.H. fails to make a report after they have com- 
plained, they may appeal to the L.G.B. 

Note. The complainers are those mentioned in sec. 5. 

The L.G.B. may direct a local inquiry under sec. 26, 
H.T.P.A., 1909. 

Sec. 21. Empowers an arbitrator to fix compensation as 
follows : If the property is unfit for human habitation, 
and could not reasonably be made fit, compensation is to 
be the value of the land and of the building materials. 

Note. If the houses are in such condition as to be a nuisance, 
or are in a state of defective sanitation, or are in bad 
repair, compensation is the value of the property with 
such state of affairs remedied, less the cost of remedying. 



PART II. UNHEALTHY DWELLING-HOUSES. 

This part of the Act contains three divisions 

A. Houses unfit for human habitation. 

B. Obstructive buildings. 

C. Schemes for reconstruction. 



HOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS 271 

(Houses unfit for Human Habitation) 

Sec. 29. Definitions. 

Street includes any court, alley, street, square or row 
of houses. 

Dwelling-house means any inhabited building and in- 
cludes any yard, garden, outhouses and appurtenances 
belonging thereto, and includes the site of the dwelling- 
house as so defined. 

Owner includes all lessees or mortgagees of any premises 
required to be dealt with under this part of the Act, 
except persons holding or entitled to the rents and profits 
of such premises for a term of years, of which twenty -one 
years do not remain unexpired. 

Closing Order means an Order prohibiting the use of 
premises for human habitation. 

(A) HOUSES UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. 

Sec. 30. The M.O.H. must report such houses to the L.A. 

Sec. 31. The M.O.H. shall report to the L.A. if he 
receives complaint from four or more householders. If the 
L.A. fails to proceed, the complainers may appeal to the 
L.G.B. as in sec. 16. The L.G.B. may compel the L.A. 
to proceed. 

Note. In unhealthy areas the complaint is by two J.P. B or 
twelve ratepayers. 

Sec. 32. Every L.A. shall cause its district to be in- 
spected to ascertain if any houses unfit for habitation 
exist therein. The L.A. may take proceedings against 
the owner of any house. 

Note. Such proceedings are taken under the P.H.A.s " nuisance " 
sections, for a list of which see notes after sec. 1 of the 
F.W.A. (page 304). 

The Court may issue a closing Order, and in addition 
impose a penalty of 20. 



272 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

A closing Order having been made, the L.A. must serve 
notice of the fact upon every tenant in the house, and the 
tenants must leave within seven days of receipt of the 
notice. 

The L.A. are empowered to make a reasonable allow- 
ance to every tenant of his expenses in removing. 

Note. See sec. 17 of the H.T.P. A., 1909 (page 284), which amends 
this and the following section. 
Sec sec. 8 of the 1903 Act. 

Sec. 33. The L.A. may issue a demolition Order. If 

after a closing Order has been issued by the Court, and 
the house has not been rendered fit for human habitation, 
the L. A. may determine to issue a demolition Order. 

Note. Notice of this resolution is served upon the owner, who is 
given an opportunity to appear and state his reasons why 
such an Order should not be made. He may get a second 
chance to render his hoiise fit for human habitation. 

Sec. 34. If the demolition Order is not obeyed, the L.A. 
may do the work in default, and sell the building material 
to cover expenses. If there be a balance, the owner is 
entitled to it. 

Note. If the proceeds of the sale are insufficient to cover the 
expenses of the L. A. , the owner must pay the L.A. the 
difference (sec sec. 9 of the 1903 Act). 

Sec. 35. Any person aggrieved may appeal to a Court of 
Quarter Sessions, and nothing can be done until this 
appeal is decided. 

Note. Appeals must be made within a month of the receipt of 

the notice from the L.A. 
The appeal may be taken to a Higher Court. 



(B) OBSTRUCTIVE BUILDINGS. 

Sec. 38. An obstructive building is one which, although 
not in itself unfit for human habitation, is so situated 



HOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS 273 

(Schemes for Reconstruction) 

that by reason of its proximity or contact with any other 
buildings 

() It stops ventilation or otherwise conduces to make such 
other buildings unfit for human habitation. 

(b) It prevents proper measures being carried into effect for 
the remedy of any nuisance or other evil complained of in 
respect of such buildings. 

The M.O.H. must report on obstructive buildings. 
Four or more inhabitant householders may complain of 
such buildings. The L.A. may resolve to demolish 
obstructive buildings. Procedure 

(1) The L.A. serve a notice of the resolution on the owner, 
calling upon him to appear. 

(2) The L.A. hear his objections, and decide what to do. 

(3) If his objections are not upheld, he may appeal to a 
Court of Quarter Sessions. 

(4) If there be no appeal to such Court, the L.A. may 
purchase the land. 

(5) Or order the owner to demolish. 



(c) SCHEMES FOB RECONSTRUCTION. 

Sec. 39. Powers of the L.A. after a demolition Order 
has been made. 

(1) They may dedicate the space as a highway or open space. 

(2) They may retain, sell, or let the space as a site for 
houses for the working-classes. 

Procedure in Reconstruction Schemes. 

(1) Notice of the scheme is served on the owners as in 

Part I., sec. 7. 

(2) The L.A. appeal to the L.G.B. for an Order sanction- 

ing the scheme. 

(3) The L.G.B. hold a local inquiry. 

(4) The L.G.B. grant a Provisional Order. 

(5) The Provisional Order is published in the London 

Gazette. 

S 



274 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(6) Parliament confirms the Provisional Order. 

Note. The whole of this procedure is only gone through when 
there are persons objecting to the proposed scheme. 
After the L.G.B. have granted a Provisional Order, two 
things may happen viz. , (a) the L.A. may purchase the 
land by agreement and no further procedure is required, 
the L.G.B. confirming the Provisional Order which they 
have granted. 

(/<) If purchase is not by agreement, the Order must be 
published in the London Gazette. Two things may again 
happen : (1) If nobody complains within two months, then 
the L. G. B. confirm the Order as before, but (2) If an 
owner objects, the confirmation of the Order by Parliament 
is rendered necessary. This section has been amended by 
sec. 24 of the H.T.P. A., 190!) (page 286), and the L.G.B. 
is now the final authority. As to publication in the 
London Gazette, see sec. 42 of the H.T.P. A., 1909. 

Sec. 40. The L.A. must show provision for those about 
to be displaced from their houses under this scheme of 
reconstruction. 



Sec. 41. Compensation is settled by an arbitrator 
appointed by the L.G.B. 

Sec. 44. Every L.A. must make a yearly return to the 
L.G-.B. of all proceedings, expenses, and receipts under 
this Act, on prescribed forms. 

Sec. 45. In Rural Sanitary Districts, a copy of all 
representations or complaints regarding obstructive 
buildings, etc., as well as a copy of any closing Order made, 
must be sent by the Rural S.A, to the C.C. 

Sec. 52. If a County M.O.H. make a representation to 
the C.C. respecting any district (not a Borough) in the 
county, and the C.C. forward a copy of such representation 
to the L.A. of that district, such L.A. must regard it as 
a representation from their own M.O.H. 



HOUSIXG OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS 275 

PART III. -WORKING-CLASS LODGING HOUSES. 

This part of the Act may be adopted anywhere. 

Sec. 53. Lodging-houses for the working-classes. This 
term includes separate houses or cottages for the working- 
classes, whether containing one or several tenements. 

Cottages may include gardens of not more than half an 
acre in extent, provided the value of the gardens shall not 
exceed 3 of an annual rental. 

Note. By sec. 50 of the H.T.P.A. , 1909, a cottage garden may 
be one acre. 

Sec. 57. The L.A. may lease other lodging-houses, and 
use them for the purposes of this part of the Act. 

Note. The L.A. may with the consent of the L.G.15. (Rural 
L.A.s require the consent of the C. C.) appropriate any 
lodging-hoiise so purchased or taken on lease, or any 
land which for the time being is vested in them. 

Sec. 58. The L.A. may purchase lodging houses. 

Sec. 59. The L.A. may build lodging-houses. They may 
build them anew, or reconstruct or alter other buildings 
and so convert them into lodging-houses. 

Note. By sec. 1 of the 1900 Act (page 276), such lodging-houses 
need not be within the district of the L.A. in England 
and Wales. 

Sec. 61. The management of such lodging-houses is 
vested in the L.A. They can make such reasonable 
charges for tenancy, etc., as determined by regulations. 

Sec. 62. The L.A. may make bye laws. A copy of such 
bye-laws must be hung up in every room used as a separate 
dwelling. 

Note. This is the same as for C.L.H.s. 



276 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 63. Persons in receipt of parochial relief shall not 
be allowed to occupy such houses. 

Sec. 64. The L. A. with the consent of the L.G-.B. may sell 
any lodging-house, if after having been established seven 
years it is found to be unnecessary or too expensive. 

Note. Rural S. A.s under these circumstances require the consent 
of the C.C. 

Sec. 70. All lodging-houses under this part of the Act 
shall be open at all times to the inspection of the L.A. 
and their officers. 



PART IV._ SUPPLEMENTAL. 

Sec. 89. Penalty of 20 for obstructing any M.O H. 
or other officer. 

Part V. Applies the Act to Scotland. 
Part VI. Applies the Act to Ireland. 
Part VII. Deals with repeal and temporary provisions. 

H.W.C.A., 1894. 

Sec. 1. Gives L.A.s certain borrowing powers with 
respect to a reconstruction scheme under Part II. 

H.W.C.A., 1900. 

This Act amends Part III. of the H.W.C.A., 1890, and 
does not apply to Scotland and Ireland. 

Sec. 1. Any Council other than aR.D.C. having adopted 
Part III. may establish or acquire lodging-houses for the 
working-classes outside their district. 

Sec. 2. Any Rural District may with the consent of the 



HOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS 277 

(Supplemental) 

C.C. adopt Part III. for the whole or part of their 
district. 

After receiving an application, the C.C. holds a local 
inquiry with regard to 

(a) The character of the area in question. 

(6) The need for such accommodation. 

(c) The probability of being otherwise provided. 

(rf) The ability of the district to bear the expense. 



H.W.C.A., 1903. 

This is an amending Act which hitherto applied only to 
England and Wales, but by sees. 52 and 53 of the 
H.T.P.A. (page 288), the Act applies also to Scotland with 
the following exceptions : 

Sec. 1, sec. 10, and sub-sec. (1) of sec. 4. 

Sec. 1. Fixes the maximum period for repayment of 
money borrowed under these Acts at eighty years instead 
of sixty years. 

Note. Money borrowed under the H. W.C. A. shall not be 
reckoned as part of the debt of the L. A. for the purposes 
of limitation on borrowing under sec. 234 of the P. H.A. , 
1875. 

This section does not apply to Scotland. 

Sec. 2. H.M. may by Order in Council assign to the 
L.G.B. any powers and duties of the Home Office under 
the H.W.C.A. 

Sec. 3. Not important to the student. 

Sec. 4. If the Confirming Authority are satisfied (on the 
report after an inquiry directed by them under sec. 10 
H.W.C.A., 1890, page 269) that a scheme ought to have 
been made for the improvement of the area or some part 
thereof, they may order the L.A. to make such a scheme 



278 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

under Part I. or Part II. of the 1890 Act, and do every- 
thing necessary under the Housing Acts for carrying into 
execution the scheme so made. The L.A. shall accordingly 
direct a scheme to be prepared as if they had passed the 
resolution required by sec. 4 (Part I.) or sec. 39 (Part II.) 
of the 1890 Act. 

Note. This sub-section does not apply to Scotland. 

Sec. 5. (1) Amends sec. 7, H.W.C.A., 1890, by omitting 
the words " in the month of September or October" from 
paragraph (a), and in paragraph (b) by substituting the 
words "during the thirty days next following the date of 
the last publication of the advertisement," for the words 
"during the month next following the month in which 
such advertisement is published. 

(2) Under the following circumstances the Order of a Con- 

firming Authority under sec. 8, sub-sec. (4) of the 1890 
Act shall, notwithstanding anything in that section, 
take effect without confirmation by Parliament, viz. : 

() If land is not proposed to be taken compulsorily. 

(6) If, although laud is proposed to be taken compulsorily, 
the Confirming Authority, before making the Order, are 
satisfied (1) that notice of the Draft Order has been 
served as required, as respects a Provisional Order, by 
sec. 8, sub-sec. 5 of the 1890 Act; (2) that the Draft 
Order has been published in the London Gazette ; (3) that 
a petition against the Draft Order has not been presented 
to the Confirming Authority by any owner of land 
proposed to be taken compulsorily, within two months 
after the date of the publication and the serving of the 
notice, or, having been so presented, has been with- 
drawn. 

(3) For the purposes of the H.W.C.A., 1890, such an 

Order of the Confirming Authority shall have the 
same effect as the confirming of the Order by Act of 
Parliament. 

Any reference to a Provisional Order made under sec. 8 
of the 1890 Act shall include a reference to an Order 
which takes effect without confirmation by Parliament. 



SOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS 279 
(Supplemental) 

Sec. 6. (1) If an Order under sub-sec. 4 of sec. 8 or 
under sec. 39 of the principal Act is petitioned against, 
the Confirming Authority or the L.G.B., as the case may 
be, may, if they think fit, on the application of the L.A., 
make any modifications in the scheme to which the Order 
relates, for the purpose of meeting the objections of the 
petitioner, and withdraw the Order sanctioning the original 
scheme, substituting for it an Order sanctioning the 
modified scheme. 

(2) The same procedure shall be followed as to the 
publication and giving of notices, and the same pro- 
visions shall apply as to the presentation of petitions 
and the effect of the Order, in the case of the Order 
sanctioning the modified scheme, as in the case of the 
Order sanctioning the original scheme : but no petition 
shall be received or have any effect, except one which 
was presented against the original Order, or one which 
is concerned solely with the modifications made in the 
scheme as sanctioned by the new Order. 

Sec. 7. Where a scheme for reconstruction under Part 
II. of the principal Act is made, neighbouring lands may 
be included in the area comprised in the scheme, if the 
L.A., under whose direction the scheme is made, are of 
opinion that the inclusion is necessary for making their 
scheme efficient; but the provision of sub-sec. 2, sec. 41, 
as to the exclusion of any additional allowance in respect 
of compulsory purchase, shall not apply in the case of any 
land so included. 

Sec. 8. (1) Closing Order. If in the opinion of the L.A. 
any dwelling-house is not reasonably capable of being 
made fit for human habitation, or is in such a state that 
the occupation thereof should be immediately discontinued, 



280 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

it shall not be necessary for them, before obtaining a 
closing Order, to serve a notice on the owner or occupier 
of the premises to abate the nuisance, and a Justice may 
issue a summons for a closing Order, and a closing Order 
may be granted, although such notice has not been served. 

Notc.'By sec. 17, H.T.P.A., 1909 (page 284), the L.A. may 
themselves issue a closing Order. 

(2) The L.G.B. may by Order prescribe forms, in sub- 
stitution for the forms under the 1890 Aet. 

Sec. 9. Gives the L.A. power to recover any deficiency 
from the owner, if the amount realised by the sale of the 
materials under sec. 34 of the 1890 Act (page 272) is 
insufficient to cover the expenses of taking down and 
removing a building. 

Sec. 10. Where any default is made as respects any 
dwelling-house in obeying a closing Order as provided by 
sub-sec. 3, sec. 32, H.W.C.A., 1890, possession may be 
obtained by or on behalf of the owner, or L.A. under the 
County Courts Act, 1888, or under the Small Tenements 
Recovery Act, 1838. 

Possession in either case may be obtained as if the 
owner or L.A. were the landlord. Expenses under this 
section may be recovered from the owner by the L.A. 

Note. This section does not apply to Scotland. 

Sec. 11. (1) The L.A. providing dwelling accommoda- 
tion or lodging-houses may, in connection with these, and 
with the consent of the L.G.B. alone, or along with any 
other person, provide any building for use as a shop, any 
recreation ground, etc., which the L.G.B. consider will 
serve a beneficial purpose in connection with the require- 
ments of the persons for whom the dwelling accommodation 
or lodging-houses were provided. The L.A. may raise 
money for this purpose, if necessary, by borrowing. 



HOUSING OF THE WORKING CLASSES ACTS 281 

(Supplemental) 

(2) The L.G.B. in giving their consent may by Order 
apply, with any necessary modifications, to such land 
or building any statutory provisions which would have 
been applicable thereto, if the land or building had 
been provided under any euactment giving the L.A. 
powers for the purpose. 

Sec. 12. Sec. 75 of the H.W.C.A. (which relates to the 
conditions to be implied on letting houses for the working 
classes) shall, as respects any contract made after the 
passing of this Act, take effect notwithstanding any 
agreement to the contrary, and any such agreement made 
after the passing of this Act shall be void. 

Sec. 13. (1) Any notice required to be served under 
Part II. of the principal Act upon any owner, shall, not- 
withstanding anything in sec. 49 of that Act, be deemed 
to be sufficiently served, if it is sent by post as a registered 
letter addressed to the owner or his agent at his usual or 
last known residence or place of business. 

(2) Any document referred to in sec. 87 of the H.W.C.A. 
shall be deemed to be sufficiently served upon the 
L.A. if addressed to that Authority or their clerk at 
the office of that Authority, and sent by post as a 
registered letter. 

Sees 14, 15, 16. Refer to London. 

Sec. 14. Deals with agreements between the L.C.C. and 
the Metropolitan Borough Councils. 

Sec. 15. Extends the period of loans to eighty years. 
Sec. 16. Substitutes the S. of S. for the L.G.B. 



282 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

HOUSING, TOWN PLANNING, ETC., ACT, 1909. 

This is an Act to amend the law relating to the housing 
of the working classes, to provide for the making of 
town planning schemes, to make further provision with 
respect to the appointment and duties of County Medical 
Officers of Health, and to provide for the establishment 
of Public Health and Housing Committees of County 
Councils. 

The Act is divided into four parts as follows : 

Part I. Housing of the Working Classes. 
Part II. Town Planning. 

Part III. County M.O.H.s, County P.H., and Housing 

Committees. 

Part IV. Supplemental. 

This Act does not extend to Ireland, and Part III. of it 
does not apply to Scotland. 



PAET I. HOUSING OF THE WOKKING 
CLASSES. 

FACILITIES FOR ACQUISITION OF LAND. 

Sec. 1. Enjoins that Part III. of the principal Act 
(i.e. H.W.C.A., 1890) shall take effect without adoption. 

Sec. 2. Any L.A. may purchase land compulsorily, for 
the purposes of Part III. of the principal Act, with the 
approval of the L.G.B. 

Note. The procedure is the same as under the P. H.A. s. 

Any L.A. may with the approval of, and subject to the 
conditions imposed by, the L.G.B. acquire land by agree- 



HOUSING, TOWN PLANNING, ETC., ACT, 1909 283 

(Contracts by Landlords) 

ment, notwithstanding the fact that the land is not 
immediately required for the purposes of this Act. 

Sees. 3-4. Deal with loans. 

Sec. 5. Instead of purchase or compensation-money 
being paid into Court, as it would be under the Lands 
Clauses Acts, it shall be at the direction of the L G.B. 
whose decision is final. 

Sec. 6. Any local authority may purchase land com- 
pulsorily for the purpose of laying out public streets or 
roads. 

L.G.B. POWERS OF ENFORCING EXECUTION OF HOUSING ACTS. 

Sees. 10-13. The L.G.B. may order any L.A. or C.C. to 
carry out their duties under Parts I., II., and III. of the 
principal Act. If under Parts II. and III., the Order of 
the L.G.B. must be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 

CONTRACTS BY LANDLORDS. 

Sec. 14. In any contract made after the passing of this 
Act for letting for habitation a house or part of a house at 
a rent not exceeding 

() In the case of a house situated in the County of London, 

40. 
(6) In the case of a house situated in a Borough or Urban 

District with a population of 50,000 or upwards, 2G. 
(c) In the case of a house situated elsewhere, 16. 

There shall be implied a condition that the house is, at 
the commencement of holding, in all respects reasonably 
fit for human habitation. 

Note. This condition shall not be implied when the house is let 
for a period of three or more years, upon the terms that it 
be put by the lessee into a condition reasonably fit for 
occupation. 



284 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 15. The landlord shall keep in repair houses let to 
persons of the working-classes. The L.A. have power of 
entry to see that this is done. If the landlord fails, the 
L.A. may by written notice require him within a reason- 
able time (not less than twenty-one days) to execute such 
works as the L.A. shall specify. The landlord may within 
twenty-one days give written notice to the L.A. of his 
intention of closing the house, and thereupon a closing 
Order shall be deemed to have become operative. 

If the landlord fails to notify or to do the specified 
work, the L.A. may do the work in default and recover 
expenses. 

Sec. 16. Extension of power of making bye-laws with 
respect to lodging-houses for the working-classes. 

AMENDMENT OF PROCEDURE FOR CLOSING ORDERS 
AND DEMOLITION ORDERS. 

Sec. 17. The L.A. may issue a closing Order. 

Note. Under sec. 32 of the H.W.C.A., 1890, a Court issues 
the Order. 

Notice of a closing Order is sent to every owner of the 
property. 

Note. The owner may appeal to the L. G.B. within fourteen 
days, after which time the closing Order is said to have 
hecomo operative, and 

Notice that a closing Order has become operative is 
sent to every occupier. 

The occupier must leave the house within a specified 
time (not less than fourteen days), 

Note. That by sec. 32 of the H. W.C.A., the tenants had to leave 
within seven days. The L. A. may make reasonable 
allowance to the tenant for his expenses in removing, 
unless he was the means of rendering the house unfit for 
habitation. 



HOUSING, TOWN PLANNING, ETC., ACT, 1909 285 
(Closing Orders and Demolition Orders) 

Occupier must leave the house within a specified time 
as above. 

The L.A. may determine a closing Order if the house 
has been made fit for habitation. 

ffote. If the L.A. refuse to do 60, the owner may appeal to 
the L.G.B. 

The L.A. may prohibit the use of certain rooms as 
sleeping-rooms. A room habitually used as a sleeping- 
place shall be deemed to be unfit for human habita- 
tion 

() If the floor is more than 3 feet below the surface of 

the adjoining street. 

(6) If the height from floor to ceiling is less than 7 feet, 
(c) If it is not ventilated in accordance with the regulations 

of the L.A. 

Note. Regarding cellar dwellings, see sec. 71 P.H.A. , 1875 (page 
152), sec. 96 of the P.II.(L.)A., 1891, or sec. 74 of the 
P.H.(S.)A., 1897 (page 51). 

A closing Order made in respect of such a room shall 
not prevent its being used for purposes other than those 
of a sleeping-place. 

Sec. 18. Demolition Order. When a closing Order has 
remained in force for three months, the L.A. give every 
owner of the property one month's notice of the meeting 
at which demolition will be considered, in order that such 
owners may be heard when the question is taken into 
consideration. 

If the house can be rendered fit for occupation, the 
L.A. may postpone the Order for six months, and if after 
that time it is not done, the L.A. issue a demolition Order, 
and aggrieved persons may appeal to the L.G.B. within 
twenty-one days. 



286 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

AMENDMENTS WITH RESPECT TO RECONSTRUCTION 
SCHEMES. 

Sec. 24. An Order of the L.G.B. sanctioning a re- 
construction scheme, and authorising the compulsory 
purchase of land for the purpose, shall take effect without 
confirmation this notwithstanding anything in section 
39 of the principal Act. 

Sec. 25. The L.G.B. may permit the L.A. to modify 
their scheme. Such, however, is always subject to the 
approval of the L.G.B. 

Sec. 26. Any inspector or officer of the L.G.B. may be 
directed to make inquiries regarding default of the 
M.O.H. of any L.A. 

AMENDMENTS WITH RESPECT TO FINANCIAL MATTERS. 

Sec. 35. Lodging-houses for the working-classes are 
exempt from Inhabited House Duty. 

GENERAL AMENDMENTS. 

Sec. 37. The L.G.B. may require the L.A. to report to 
them on any crowded area. 

Sec. 38. The L.G.B. may permit the joint action of any 
L.A.s. 

* Sec. 39. The L.G.B. may by rules determine how appeal 
shall be made to them; but the rules shall provide that 
the L.G.B. shall not dismiss any appeal without having 
first held a public local inquiry. 

Note. The L.G.B. may, before considering any appeal, require 
the appellant to deposit such sum as is necessary to cover 
the costs of the appeal. 



HOUSING, TOWN PLANNING, ETC., ACT, 1909 287 
(General Amendments) 

Sec. 41. The L.G.B. shall prescribe the form of all 
notices, advertisements, etc., to be used in connection with 
the Housing Acts. 

They niay dispense with the publication of advertisements 
and notices if there is a reasonable cause. 

Sec. 42. Provisions as to publication in the "London 
Gazette." It shall be sufficient to insert a notice giving 
short particulars of the scheme, and stating in two local 
newspapers where copies of the scheme may be seen. 

Sec. 43. Back-to-back houses. Notwithstanding any- 
thing in any local Act or bye-law in force in any Borough 
or district, it shall not be lawful to erect any back-to-back 
houses intended to be used as dwellings for the working- 
classes, and any such houses commenced to be erected after 
the passing of this Act, shall be deemed to be unfit for 
human habitation for the purposes of the provisions of the 
Housing Acts. 

Provided that nothing in tins section 

(a) Shall prevent the erection or use of a house containing 
several tenements placed back to back, if the M.O. H. for 
the district certifies that the several tenements are so con- 
structed and arranged as to secure effective ventilation of 
all habitable rooms in every tenement : or 

(7>) Shall apply to houses abutting on any streets, the plans 
whereof have been approved of by the L. A. before 1st May 
1!)09, in any Boroiigh or district in which at the passing 
of the Act any local Act or bye -laws are in force per- 
mitting the erection of back-to-back houses. 

Sec. 44. The L.G.B. may revoke unreasonable bye-laws 
if they impede the erection of dwellings for the working- 
classes. 

Sec. 45. Saving sites of ancient monuments, etc. 
Nothing in the Housing Acts shall authorise the acquisi- 
tion, for the purposes of those Acts, of any land which is 



288 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

the site of an ancient monument or other object of archaeo- 
logical interest. 

Saving sites of railways, docks, canals, etc. The same 
provision holds good in respect to any land which is the 
property of any L. A., or has been acquired by any corpora- 
tion or company for the purpose of a railway, dock, canal, 
water, or other public undertaking, or any land which forms 
part of any park, garden or pleasure-ground, or is other- 
wise required for the amenity or convenience of any 
dwelling-house. 

DEFINITIONS. 

Sec. 50. For the definition of "cottage " in the principal 
Act, the following shall be substituted : 

The expression " cottage " may include a garden of not 
more than one acre. 

Sec. 51. Unimportant. 

Sees. 52-53. Application of Part I. to Scotland. The 
Working Classes Act, 1900, arid the H.W.C.A., 1903, 
shall, as amended by this Act, apply to Scotland. 



PAET II TOWN PLANNING. 

Sec. 54. The L.A. may appeal to the L.G.B. for power 
to prepare a town planning scheme. The L.G.B. may 
authorise the L.A. to include in the scheme any land which 
is already built upon, and to provide for the demolition of 
such buildings if need be. 

The L.G.B. may modify or refuse to accept any scheme 
of the L.A. 

The L.G.B. have certain duties before they approve of 
any scheme. 



HOUSING, TOWN PLANNING, ETC., ACT, 1909 289 

(Town Planning) 
These duties are as follows : 

(a) They publish their intention to approve of the scheme in 

the London or Edinburgh Gazette. 
(&) If anyone objects within twenty-one days, it is laid before 

both Houses of Parliament for thirty days, 
(c) If either of these Houses objects within the thirty days, 

they present an address to His Majesty, and no further 

proceedings shall be taken thereon. 

A town planning scheme, when approved by the L.G.B., 
shall have effect as if it were enacted in this Act. 

Sec. 55. Where land included in a town planning scheme 
is in the area of more than one L.A., the responsible 
Authority may be one L.A. for certain purposes and 
another L.A. for other purposes, or a joint body may be 
constituted. 

Note. London is exempted from this provision. 

Sec. 56. The L.G-.B. may make regulations for the pro- 
cedure to be adopted in town planning schemes. Such 
regulations are general in their nature, and contain pro- 
visions for securing co-operation on the part of the L.A. 
and other persons interested in the land at every stage of 
the proceedings. 

Note. See sec. 64 of this Act (page 290), which enjoins that such 
general provisions shall be laid before Parliament. 

Sec. 57. The responsible Authority have power to enforce 
scheme, after giving such notice as may be provided by a 
town planning scheme. 

(a) They may remove, pull down, or alter any building or 
other work in the area included in the scheme, when such 
building, etc., is such as to contravene the scheme. 

(li) They may execute any work in default, and recover 
expenses. 

The L.G. B. are arbitrators in event of a dispute, and 
the decision of the Board is final. 

T 



290 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 58. Compensation for property injuriously affected 
by the scheme. Any person whose property is so affected 
may recover compensation from the responsible Authority 
if he make the claim within the time limited. 

(Not being less than three months after publication of the 
notice of approval of the scheme.) 

If property is increased in value as a result of the 
scheme, the responsible Authority may recover one-half of 
the amount of that increase from the owner of the property. 

(If the claim is made as above within a certain time.) 

Compensation for expenditure under a scheme sub- 
sequently revoked. Any person incurring expenditure for 
the purpose of complying with a scheme, may, if the scheme 
be revoked by the L.G.B., recover compensation from the 
responsible Authority. 

Sec. 59. Exclusion or limitation of compensation in 
certain cases. Where property is alleged to be injuriously 
affected by a town planning scheme, there shall be no 
compensation in the following cases : 

(a) If the provisions of the scheme would have been enforce- 
able under any bye-laws made by the L. A. 

( b) If the person is getting compensation under any other Act. 

Sec. 60. The responsible Authority may purchase land 
compulsorily for the purpose of any town planning scheme. 

Sec. 61. The L.G-.B. may order the L.A. regarding any 
scheme 

(1) To prepare and submit for the approval of the L.G.B. 

such a town planning scheme. 

(2) To adopt any scheme. 

(3) To consent to modifications or conditions inserted 

by the L.G.B. 

Sec. 64. All general provisions made under this part of 
the Act shall be laid before Parliament. 



HOUSING, TOWN PLANNING, ETC , ACT, 1909 291 

(County Medical Officers) 

Sec. 65. Expenses incurred by a L. A. under this part of 
the Act shall be defrayed as public health expenses under 
the P.H. A.s, and the L.A. may borrow money as under 
the P.H. A.s. 

Sec. 66. Application of this part of the Act to London. 
Sec. 67. Application of this part of the Act to Scotland. 



PAKT III. COTJNTY MEDICAL OFFICERS, 
COUNTY PUBLIC HEALTH AND HOUSING 
COMMITTEES, ETC. 

Sec. 68. County Medical Officers of Health, their 
appointment, duties, tenure of office, etc. 

(1) Every C.C. shall appoint a County M.O.H. under sec. 

17 of the Local Government Act, 1888. 

(2) The duties of the M.O.H. of a county shall be such 

duties as may be prescribed by general Order of the 
L.G.B., and such duties as may be assigned to him by 
the C.C. 

(3) The power of C.C.s and D.C.s under sec. 17 of the 

L.G.A., 1888, to make arrangements with respect to 
M.O.H. s shall cease. 

(5) A County M.O.H. shall not be appointed temporarily, 

unless with the consent of the L.G.B. 

(6) A County M.O.H. appointed after the passing of this 

Act, shall not engage in private practice without 
written consent from the L.G.B. 

Sec. 69. It is the duty of the Clerk and M.O.H. of a 
district to furnish information to the M.O.H. of the County 
Council regarding complaints, etc., as mentioned in sec. 45. 



292 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 70. Part III. of this Act does not apply to Scot- 
land or Ireland. 

Sec. 71. Every C.C. shall establish a Public Health and 
housing committee. 

Sec. 72. The C.C. may promote the formation or extension 
of building societies, having for their object the erection or 
improvement of dwellings for the working-classes. 



PAET IV. SUPPLEMENTAL. 

Sec. 73. Provisions as to commons and open spaces. 

Where a public common or open space is appropriated for 
any scheme under the Housing Acts, another common or 
open space shall be provided, equal in area and equally 
advantageous to the persons using such common. 

Sec. 74. Makes special provisions as to land in the 
neighbourhood of Royal Palaces or Parks. 

Sec. 76. This Act shall not extend to Ireland. 



REGULATIONS UNDER SEC. 17 (1). 

Art. 1. L.A. to make provision for systematic inspec- 
tion of various dwellings and localities in their district, 
L.A. shall instruct M.O.H or other authorised officer to 
submit list or lists of houses which call for inspection. 
List need not specify each house separately, but may relate 
to dwellings in a defined area. 

Art. 2. Inspection made by M.O.H. or other officer shall 
relate to (a) water supply ; (b) closet accommodation ; 
(c) drainage ; (d) light, air, dampness, and cleanliness ; (e) 
paving, drainage, and sanitary condition of yards and 



CUSTOMS AND INLAND REVENUE ACTS 293 

(Supplemental) 

outhouses connected with dwelling-house ; (f) arrangements 
for deposit of ashes or refuse ; (</) existence of any room 
coming within meaning of sec. 17 (7) of 1909 Act; (h) any 
other condition liable to render house dangerous or 
injurious to health of an inhabitant. 

Art. 3. Records of inspection to be kept by responsible 
official. Records to contain information regarding (a) 
situation and name or number of house; (6) name of 
inspecting officer ; (c) date of inspection ; (d) date of last 
previous inspection ; (e) state of house as under An. 2 ; (/) 
any action taken by responsible official ; (g) result of any 
action taken ; (h) any further recommendation by officer. 

Art. 4. Above records to be considered at each ordinary 
meeting of L.A., with a view to taking necessary action. 

Art. 5. M.O.H. or other officer shall report annually to 
L.G.B. regarding all operations taken under this Act. 

Art. 6. M.O.H. or other officer to execute all lawful 
orders and directions of L.A. 



CUSTOMS AND INLAND EEVENUE ACTS. 

1890 ACT. 

Sec. 25. Reduces duty on inhabited dwellings which are 
of small annual value. 

Sec. 26. Form of application for reduction of or exemp- 
tion from Inhabited House Duty. 

A certificate from the M.O.H. or practitioner, specially 
appointed for the purpose, must be secured to the effect 
that the house provides adequate accommodation for its 



294 PUBLIC HEALTH^LAW 

inmates, and that there are proper sanitary provisions. 
The house is examined by M.O.H. or other officer afore- 
mentioned, at request of owner. 

Note. This section amended by the 1903 Act has had the 
amendment embodied. 

1903 ACT. 

Sec. 11. Specifies rentals to be taken into consideration. 

(1) When a house, used as a dwelling, is used for the sole 

purpose of providing separate dwellings 

(a) The value of any dwelling in the house which is of an 

annual value below 20 shall be excluded from Inhabited 

House Duty ; and 
(6) The rate of this duty, in respect of any dwelling in the 

house of an annual value of '20, but not exceeding 40, 

shall be reduced to threepence ; and 
(c) Of houses of 40, but not exceeding 60, to be reduced 

to sixpence. 

(2) The provisions of this section with reference to houses 

not exceeding 40, shall not take effect unless the 
above-mentioned certificate is produced. 



THE MERCHANT SHIPPING ACTS, 1892-1894. 

Sec. 3. Inspection of sailors' food. 

(1) Ships going from the U.K. through the Suez Canal, 

round the Cape of Good Hope, or Cape Horn, must 
have barrels of beef and pork, preserved meat, and 
vegetables, flour and biscuits, intended for food, 
examined and certified. 

(2) The inspecting officer may at any time board a vessel 

to ascertain whether food and stores are fit for use. 
If not, he may detain the ship until defects are 
remedied. 
Note. The appointment of such officer is optional. 



SHOPS ACT, 1912 295 

Sec. 214. L.A. whose district includes seaport, to make 
bye-laws for seamen's lodging-houses with approval of 
Board of Trade. Bye-laws shall inter alia provide for 
licensing, inspection, and sanitary conditions of such 
places for enforcing said bye-laws, for preventing use of 
unlicensed premises, and for excluding improper persons 
from licensed premises. Fines not exceeding 50 for 
breach of bye-laws may be imposed. 



SHOPS ACT, 1912. 

(Only the most important sections have been quoted.) 
Sec. 1. Conditions of Employment. 

(a) One day in each week at least a shop assistant shall not 
be employed after half-past one in the afternoon. 

(6) Occupier of shop must fix a notice, and specify in it the 
days selected for different shop assistants. 

(c) Intervals for meals to be allowed for each assistant. 

(rf) Penalties. 

Sec. 2. (a) Young persons not to be employed in or 
about shops for more than seventy-four hours weekly. 
This includes meal hours. 

(6) No young person, with the employer's knowledge, 
shall be employed in or about a shop, if, on the same day, 
he or she had been employed in a factory or workshop for 
the number of hours specified in that Act. Nor shall he 
or she be employed for a longer period than will, together 
with the time previously employed (in the factory or 
workshop), complete such number of hours. 

Notice to be exhibited by employer in shop regarding 
hours, etc., during which young persons may be lawfully 
employed. 

Note. This section applies to wholesale shops and warehouses, 
but not to domestic servants wholly employed as such. 



29(5 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 3. Seats for Female Shop Assistants. In rooms 
or shops where female assistants are employed in serving 
customers, occupier must provide seats in proportion of 
not less than one for every three female shop assistants 
employed in each room. Penalty for first offence, 3. 

Sec. 4. Closing of Shops. 

Note. This section is not important to the student of Public 
Health, dealing as it does in detail with " Half Holidays " 
fixed by the L.A. for various classes of shops on different 
days and periods of the year. The hour of closing must 
not be later than one o'clock afternoon. The L.A. may 
ascertain by vote the feeling of shopkeepers as regards 
closing for the weekly half-holiday. The L.A. may, as a 
result, exempt shops of a particular class wholly or in 
part. When "Half Holidays'' are decided upon, the 
L.A. must give due notice and hear objections. If two- 
thirds of those affected approve, the Order shall be made 
by the L.A. The Secretary of State (Secretary for 
Scotland in Scotland) must first approve of the Order. 

Sec. 7. Holding of Local Inquiries by competent person 
appointed by Secretary of State is empowered by this 
section in order to ascertain whether or not a Closing 
Order is to be made in a particular locality. This inquiry 
may be prompted by L.A. or by a substantial number of 
occupiers of shops and shop assistants. 

Sec. 8. " Closing Orders " may be revoked by Secretary 
of State at instigation of L.A. 

Note. Such "Orders" made under sec. 5 differ from "Half 
Holiday" closure, and refer to hour of closing at night; 
not earlier than 7 p.m. 

Sec. 13. Powers and Duties of L.A.s. Every L.A. 
must enforce provisions of this Act, and must appoint 
inspectors to administer the regulations made by L.A. 
These inspectors have the same powers conferred on them 
in relation to shops as they have in relation to factories 
and workshops by sees. 119 and 121 of the F.W.A., 1901. 
Such inspector has power to institute and carry on 
proceedings on behalf of the L.A. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1896 297 

Sec. 17. Secretary of State may make regulations for 

(a) Mode of ascertaining opinion of shopkeepers. 

(6) Conduct of local inquiries. 

(c) Prescribing anything under this Act which is to be 

prescribed. 

(c?) Procedure for obtaining revocation of Closing Orders. 
(e) For carrying on provisions of Act. 

Sec. 19. Definitions. 

" Shop " includes any premises where any retail business 
or trade is carried on. 

"Retail Trade or Business " includes business of barber 
or hairdresser, sale of refreshments or intoxicating liquors, 
retail sales by auction ; but does not include sale of 
programmes and catalogues and other similar sales at 
theatres and places of amusement. 

" Shop Assistant " means any person wholly or mainly 
employed in a shop in connection with the serving of 
customers or receipt of orders for despatch of goods. 

" Bank Holiday " includes public holidays, days of 
public rejoicing and mourning. 

"Week" means period between 12 p.m. Saturday till 
same hour on succeeding Saturday. 

Note. Nothing in this Act applies to bazaars or charitable fairs 
where no private profit is made. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1896. 

Sec. 1. (1) Extends administrative scope of customs 
and coast-guard to execution of L.G.B. regulations. Such 
regulations may provide : 

(a) That customs officers, coast-guard officers and men shall 
execute the provisions for prevention of epidemic disease. 



298 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(ft) That particular signals bo hoisted by vessels having 
epidemic, endemic, or infectious disease on board. 

(c) Questions to be put under aforesaid circumstances. 

(d) The detention of vessels and persons on board. 

(c) Duties to be performed by masters, pilots, and other 
persons on board. 

(2) Before the regulations can be made for customs and 

coast-guard, the consent of H.M. Customs Com- 
missioners and Admiralty must be secured. Where 
signals are concerned, the approval, to any change, of 
Board of Trade is necessary. 

(3) Heavy penalties on those who neglect or refuse to 

enforce regulations, or for obstruction. 

Sec. 2. Powers placed in hands of L.G.B. 

Sees. 3 and 4. Apply Act to Scotland and Ireland. 

Sec. 5. Regulations to be uniform for United Kingdom. 

Sec. 6. Repeals former enactment in the British Isles for 
quarantine. 



PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, 1904. 

Sec. 1. Extends powers of 1896 Act, so that regula- 
tions may be made for taking measures to prevent danger 
to public health from vessels arriving at any port, as well 
as the prevention of conveyance of infection by means of 
any vessel sailing from any port; care being taken that 
conventions made with Foreign Countries are not infringed. 

The regulations may also provide for recovery of 
expenses by L.A. incurred in connection with disinfection. 

The Act applies to Scotland and Ireland. 



CLEANSING OF PERSONS ACT, 1897 299 

CLEANSING OF PERSONS ACT, 1897. 

Sec. 1. Applicants for cleansing from vermin may 
at discretion of L.A. have permission to use necessary 
apparatus. 

Note. It is not the L.A. who require the verminous person to 
be cleansed, it is the person who applies. L.A.s are 
empowered to expend reasonable sums on buildings or 
apparatus, and attendants for purposes of this Act. 

Sec. 2. Definitions of Local Authority. 

In England L.A. means Council of any County 
Borough, the D.C. of any district, any Board of Guardians, 
and in London any S.A. defined in the P.H.(L.)A., 1891. 

Sec. 3. Consent of L.G-.B. required in Scotland and 
Ireland before a L.A. can acquire land or erect buildings 
for purposes of this Act. 

DAIRIES, COWSHEDS, AND MILKSHOPS MODEL 
REGULATIONS OF THE L.G.B. 

(For D.C.M. Orders see Appendix.} 

Throughout these regulations the expression Council 
means the Mayor, Aldermen, and Burgesses of the 
Borough acting by the Council. 

The expression District means Borough, Urban, or 
Rural District. 

The expression Cowshed includes any dairy in which 
milking cows may be kept. Cowkeeper means any person 
following that trade, and who is required to be registered 
under the D.C.M.O., 1885. 

Every occupier of a dairy wherein any cattle niay be 
kept shall afford the M.O.H. and I.N. or other authorised 
officer all reasonable assistance that may be required by 
him for the purpose of inspection. 



300 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



PART I. 

Part I. deals with cowsheds from which the cows are 
grazed daily. 

Lighting. Every cowshed must be adequately lighted by 
windows. 

Ventilation must be adequate. 

Cleansing. (1) Every part of the interior must be thoroughly 
cleansed from time to time. 

(2) The interior must be liinewashed twice yearly, viz., May 
and October, but parts properly painted or varnished 
need only be thoroughly cleansed. 

(3) All dung, etc., must be removed at least once daily. 
Drainage. (1) All liquid matter which may fall on the floor must 

be conveyed by an open channel to a drain inlet, situated in the open 
air at proper distance from the door or window of such cowshed. 

(2~) No inlet to any drain shall be within the cowshed. 
Water Supply must be adequate, and all places of storage must be 
readily accessible and periodically cleansed. 



PART II. 

The regulations in Part I. and also the following 
regulation shall apply to cowsheds, the cows from which 
are not grazed daily, 800 feet of air-space being the 
minimum for each such cow. 

Note. In calculating the air-space for the purpose of this 
regulation, no space shall be reckoned which is more 
than Ifi feet above the floor: but if the roof or ceiling is 
included, then the mean height of the same above the 
floor may be taken as the height thereof. 

This regulation shall not apply to any cowshed used 
before the date of adoption of the regulations, until two 
years after such adoption. 



PART III. 

In this part the expression " Dairy " means a dairy in 
which cattle are not kept. 

The provisions as to lighting, ventilation, drainage, etc., 



DAIRIES, COWSHEDS, ETC., REGULATIONS 301 

(Regulations of the L. G.B.) 

are practically the same as in Part I., but in addition, 
cleanliness of milk-vessels is provided for, and also pre- 
vention of contamination of milk. 

Cleanliness of milk- vessels. A cowkeeper shall, on 
every occasion when any milk-vessel shall have been 
used to contain milk, or shall have been returned to him 
after having been out of his possession, cause such vessel 
to be thoroughly cleansed with steam or clean boiling 
water. 

All milk-vessels must be kept in a state of constant 
cleanliness. 

Precautions against contamination or infection of milk. 

Every purveyor of milk, or person selling milk by retail, 
shall take all reasonable precautions, in connection with 
storage and distribution of milk, to prevent the exposure 
of the milk to any infection or contamination. 

He shall not deposit or keep any milk intended for 
sale 

(a) In any place where it would be liable to become infected 
or contaminated by impure air, or by any offensive, 
noxious, or deleterious gas or substance. 

(l>) In any room used as a kitchen or living-room. 

(c) In any room, building, or part of a building communi- 
cating directly by door, window, or otherwise with any 
room used as a sleeping-room, or in which there may be 
any person suffering from infectious disease, or in any 
room which has been used by an infected person, and 
which has not been properly disinfected, or, 

(<l) In any room, or building, or part thereof in which there 
may bo a direct inlet to any drain. 

He shall not suffer any cow to be milked for the 
purpose of the milk being sold 

() Unless, at the time of milking, the udder and teats of 

such cow are thoroughly clean. 
(/;) Unless the hands of the milker are thoroughly clean and 

free from all infection and contamination. 



302 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Penalties. Breach of any of the foregoing regulations 
entails a penalty of 5, and a daily penalty of forty 
shillings for each day after a notice from the L.A. 

The Court may decide a smaller penalty. 

Revocation of previous regulations. All previous regu- 
lations in force shall he revoked when the above regula- 
tions are adopted. 



FACTOEY AND WOKKSHOP ACT, 1901. 

This is an extensive Act, but fortunately the M.O.H. 
has few duties regarding its administration. He must 
report specifically on the administration of the Act in 
workshops and work-places (so far as matters under the 
charge of the Council are concerned) to the Council, and 
send a copy to the Secretary of State. These matters 
are (1) Sanitation of workshops, (2) Home-work; (3) 
Bakehouses. (See sec. 132.) 

It is also his duty to inform the district inspector of 
factories, if he finds any woman, young person, or child 
employed in a workshop in which no abstract of the Act 
is posted up. 

The Act is divided into ten parts, but the Public Health 
student is concerned only with the following : 

Part I. Dealing with "health and safety" of the 
workers. 

Part IV. Dealing with dangerous and unhealthy in- 
dustries. 

Part V. Dealing with "laundries," "tenement factories," 
etc. 

Part VI. Dealing with "home-work." 

Part VIII. Dealing with "administration." 

Part X. Dealing with "definitions." 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACT, 1901 303 

PART X. DEFINITIONS. 

A child is any person under fourteen years of age. 

A young person is a person under eighteen years and 
not a child. 

A woman is a female eighteen years of age and over. 

Factories include all places where mechanical power 
is used. 

Workshops include all places where no mechanical 
power is used. 

Work-places are places such as yards, stables, etc., 
where work is carried on, but which are neither factories 
nor workshops. 

Domestic Factories are private houses or rooms in 
which work is carried on by members of the same family 
dwelling there. 

Laundries are workshops, unless mechanical power is 
used. 

A Tenement Workshop is any place in which, with the 
permission of, or under agreement with the owner or 
occupier, two or more persons carry on any work which 
would constitute the work-place a workshop, if the persons 
working therein were in the employment of the owner 
or occupier, e.g., journeymen tailors' workshops where 
these men work with or without assistance, each hiring a 
" separate sitting " from owner or occupier. 



PART I. HEALTH AND SAFETY. 

Sec. 1. (1) The following provisions shall apply to every 
factory as denned by this Act, except a domestic factory. 

(a) It must be kept in a cleanly state. 

(6) It must be kept free from effluvia from any drain, closet, 
or nuisance. 

(c) It must not be overcrowded. 

(d) It must be ventilated, so as to render harmless as far as 
practicable all vapour, dust, gases, etc.. generated in the 
course of the manufacturing process. 



304 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(2) The provisions of the nuisance sees, of the P.H. A.s shall 

not apply to any factory to which this section applies. 

(3) Ceilings, walls, etc., to be limewashed every fourteen 
months. If these have been oil-painted or varnished, 
they must be washed with hot water and soap at 
least once every fourteen months. 

(4) The S. of S. may grant exceptions to sub-sec. (3) in 

special cases. 

(5) Contravention of any part of this section entails a 

penalty. 

Note. The "nuisance sections" of the various P.H. A.s are as 

follows : 

Sec. 1G of the P.H.(S.)A., 1807. Sec. 91 of the P.H.A., 1875. 
Sec. 107 of the P.H.(I.)A., 1878. Sec. 2 of the P.H.(L.)A., 1891. 

Sec. 2. (1) The nuisance sections of the P.H.A.s apply 
only to factories not provided for in the above section, 
and to workshops and work-places. 

(2) Every workshop or work-place within the meaning of 

the P.H. A. must be kept free from effluvia, etc. If 
not so kept, it must be dealt with under the nuisance 
sections of the P.H.A.s 

(3) The D.C. may send notice to the owner or occupier 

of any work-place (on the certificate of the M.O.H.) 
to limewash, etc., within a specified time. 

(4) Failure to comply entails a daily penalty of ten 

shillings, and the D.C. may do the work themselves, 
and recover expenses. 

(5) This section does not apply to any work-place or 

workshop to which the P. H.(L.)A. applies. 

Sec. 3. (1) Minimum air-space allowed in factories, 
workshops, etc. A factory, or room in a factory, 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACT, 1901 305 

(Health and Safety) 

workshop, etc., is held to be overcrowded when there is 
less than the following air-spaces : 

250 cubic feet per person. 

400 cubic feet per person, during overtime. 

500 cubic feet per person in underground bakehouses. 

(2) and (3). The S. of S. may by special Order increase 
these figures 

e.g. When artificial light other than electric light is used, or 
where a workshop, not being a domestic workshop, is 
used by day as a work-place and by night as a sleeping 
apartment. (The S. of S. has already taken advantage of 
this power, and 400 cubic feet air-space must now be 
provided.) 

(4) In every factory and workshop a notice must be 
affixed specifying the number of persons employed in 
each room. 

Sec. 4. (1) If the S. of S. is satisfied that these provisions are 
not being carried out by the D.C., he may by Order 
authorise the F.I. (Factory Inspector) to take such steps 
as appear necessary for enforcing them. 

(2) The F.I. armed with this Order has the same powers 
with respect to workshops and work-places as he has with 
respect to factories, and may now act in all respects as 
if he were the D. C. He may recover expenses from 
the D.C. 

Sec. 5. (1) Defaults in a factory, remediable under the 
P.H.A.s, must be notified by the F.I. to the D.C. Any 

act, neglect, or default in connection with w.c.s, drains, 
nuisances, etc., remediable under the P.H.A.s must be so 
notified in writing to the D.C. 

The D.C. take steps and inform the F.I. of proceedings 
taken. 

(2) For the purposes of this section the F.I. may ask the 
M.O.H., or the S.I., or other officer of the D.C. to 
accompany him. 

(3) If the D.C. do not take proceedings within one month, 
the F.I. may himself proceed, recovering expenses from 
the D.C. , provided that these have not been recovered 
from any other person, and have not been incurred in any 
other unsuccessful proceedings. 

U 



30G PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 6. (1) Purity of air at a suitable temperature must be 
supplied in every factory and workshop. 

(2) The S. of S. may order thermometers to be fixed in 
factories, etc. 

(3) There is a penalty for contravention of this section. 

Sec. 7. (1) Adequate ventilation must be provided and 
maintained. 

(2) The S. of S. may prescribe standards in certain specified 
trades. 

(3) There is a penalty for contravention of this section, 
factories being dealt with under this Act, workshops, etc., 
being dealt with in the nuisance sections of the P.H.A.s 
(see notes to sec. 1 of this Act). 

Sec. 8. (1) Adequate means of drainage must be provided 

where floors are liable to be wet in the process of work. 
(2) Contraventions of this section are dealt with under this 
Act in the case of factories, and under the P. H. A.B in the 
case of workshops, etc. 

Sec. 9. (1) A sufficient number of sanitary conveniences 
must be provided in every factory and workshop, and 
separate accommodation must be provided for each sex. 

(2) The S. of S. is to determine what is a sufficient number 
of conveniences. (Sec Sanitary Accommodation Order, 
page 316.) 

(3) Contraventions in every case are dealt with under this 
Act. 

(4) This section does not apply to London, nor to any place 
which has adopted sec. 2'2 of the P.H.A.(A.)A., 1890. 

Sees. 10-13. Deal with such matters as the fencing of 
machinery, boilers, etc., and are of little importance to the 
student of Public Health. 

Sec. 14. Proper means of fire-escape must be provided. 
Every D.C. shall examine all factories and workshops 
within their district in which more than forty persons are 
employed, to ascertain whether they have proper means of 
escape from fire, and when these are not provided, to 
compel the owner to provide them. 

Note. If the D.C. fail to enforce these provisions, the F.I. may 
take the necessary steps at the expense of the D.C. 

A factory built after 1st Jan. lt>92. or a workshop built 
after 1st Jan. 1896, for the employment of forty or more 
people, must obtain from the D.C. a certificate to the 
effect that proper means of fire-escape are provided. 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACT, 1901 307 

(~Danyerous and Unhealthy Industries) 

Sec. 15. Empowers the B.C. to make bye-laws provid- 
ing for means of escape from fire. 

Sec. 16. Sliding doors and doors to open outwards. 
The door of each room in which ten or more persons are 
employed must be constructed so as to open outwards, 
except in the case of sliding doors. 

Note. This applies to factories built after 1st Jan. 1896. 



PART II. 

This part deals with the hours of employment of women, 
young persons and children, and is omitted as not concern 
ing the Public Health student. 



PART III. 

This part deals with the education of children and is 
also omitted. 



PART IV. DANGEROUS AND UNHEALTHY 
INDUSTRIES. 

Sec. 73. Compulsory notification of certain trade 
diseases. Every medical practitioner attending or called 
in to visit a patient whom he believes to be suffering from 
any of the following diseases must notify : 

(1) Lead poisoning; (2) Phosphorous poisoning; (3) 
Mercurial poisoning ; (4) Arsenical poisoning ; or (5) 
Anthrax. 



308 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

The notification, which must contain the name and 
address of the patient, must be sent to 

(1) Chief Inspector of Factories, Home Office, London ; and to 

(2) The certifying surgeon of the district ; and to 

(3) The factory inspector of the district. 

The fee for such notification is two shillings and six- 
pence, and the penalty for failure to send it is forty 
shillings. 

Sec. 74. The F.I. may insist upon ventilation by means 
of a fan in certain factories and workshops. 

e.;/. Where glazing, grinding, or polishing on a wheel is 
carried out. 

Sec. 75. Suitable lavatories must be provided in work- 
places where lead, arsenic, or other poisonous substance 
is used ; and no meals must be taken in rooms where dust 
from these materials is generated. 

Sec. 76. Restrictions as to employment of women, 
young persons, and children in "wet spinning." 

Sec. 77. Eestrictions as to the employment of certain 
persons in certain trade processes. 

(a) Children must not be employed in dry grinding in 
the metal trade, nor in dipping in the lucifer match trade. 

(6) No young person or child must be employed in 
silvering mirrors with mercury, or in making white lead. 

(c) No female, young person, or child is to be employed 
in melting or annealing glass. 

(d) No girl under sixteen years of age is to be employed 
in making or finishing bricks, nori-ornamental tiles, or salt. 

Sec. 78. Prohibition of the taking of meals in certain 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACT, 1901 309 

(Bakehouses) 

places. No person must take meals, or remain during the 
meal-time, in certain parts of factories and workshops. 

e.g. In the mixing rooms of glass works, the grinding, cutting, 
or polishing rooms of flint-glass works. 

Sees. 79-86. Deal with the making of regulations for 
the safety of persons employed in dangerous trades. These 
sections apply to any factory or workshop, including tene- 
ment factories and workshops. 



PART V. SPECIAL MODIFICATIONS AND 
EXTENSIONS. 

This part deals with special modifications for (1) 
Tenement factories ; (2) Cotton, cloth and other humid 
industries ; (3) Bakehouses ; (4) Laundries. The Public 
Health student is concerned only with bakehouses and 
laundries. 

BAKEHOUSES. 

Sec. 97. A bakehouse shall have no connection with 
drains, w.c.s, etc. 

() No w.c., earth-closet, privy, or ashpit must communicate 

directly with the bakehouse. 
(6) The cistern supplying the bakehouse must be separate 

from that supplying any w.c. 
(c) No drain must ventilate into any bakehouse. 

Penalty for contravention of this section is forty 
shillings, and a daily penalty of five shillings for con- 
tinuance. 

Sec. 98. Penalty for insanitary condition of bakehouse. 
If a bakehouse is unfit for use or occupation as a bake- 
house on sanitary grounds, a Court of Summary Jurisdiction 
may impose a penalty of forty shillings for the first offence 



310 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

and 5 for subsequent offences, and may call on the owner 
to remedy the defects. 

Note. In Scotland the Court of Summary Jurisdiction is that 
presided over by a Sheriff. 

Sec. 99. Ceilii-gs, walls, passages, etc., must be lime- 
washed, etc., periodically. 

(f<) Limcwashing must be renewed every six months. 

(/*) If oil-painted or varnished, it must have three coats, and 

be renewed every seven years, and washed with hot water 

and soap every six month.--. 

Sec. 100. A bakehouse shall have no connection with a 
sleeping-place. No place on the same level with a bake- 
house and forming part of the same building, must be used 
as a sleeping-place, unless it is constructed as follows : 

(<i) It must be effectually separated from the bakehouse by a 
partition extending from floor to ceiling : and 

(6) Must have an external glazed window 9 superficial feet 
in area made to open half its extent. 

Penalty for first offence, twenty shillings ; and for sub- 
sequent offences, 5. 

Sec. 101. Underground bakehouses. No underground 
bakehouse shall be used as a bakehouse unless so used at 
the passing of this Act, and no underground bakehouse 
shall be used after the 1st January 1904, unless certified 
by the D.C. as suitable for that purpose. 

Note. An -'Underground Bakehouse" means a bakehouse any 
baking-room of which is so situated that the surface of 
the floor is more than 3 feet below the surface of the 
footway of the adjoining street, or of the ground adjoining 
or nearest to the room. The expression " baking-room " 
means any room used for baking or any process incidental 
thereto. 

No underground bakehouse is to be certified unless the 
D.C. is satisfied with its construction, lighting, ventila- 
'tion, etc. 

Note. Any person refused a certificate from a D.C. may apply 
to a Court of Summary Jurisdiction within twenty-one 
days of the refusal. The Court may grant certificate. 



FACTORY AKD WORKSHOP ACT, 1901 311 

(Home-work) 

Sec. 102. Retail bakehouses. The M.O.H. and not the 
F.I. enforces the provisions of this Act with regard to 
retail bakehouses, and may exercise all the powers of 
entry, inspection, etc., of the F.I. 

Note. A retail bakehouse is a bakehouse where bread, biscuits, 
etc., are made and sold retail. 

LAUNDRIES. 

Laundries are dealt with more fully in the F.W.A., 
1907. 

Sec. 103. Limits the hours of employment in laundries. 
The limit for women and young persons is 60 hours per 
week, and for children, 30 hours per week. The provisions 
of the Act are applicable to laundries carried on by way 
of trade or for the purpose of gain, excepting those in 
which the only persons employed are 

(a) Inmates of prisons, reformatories, industrial schools, etc. 
(Jj) Inmates of an institution conducted in good faith for 

religious and charitable purposes, 
(c) Members of the same family dwelling there, or in which 

not more than two persons dwelling elsewhere are 

employed. 

Where no mechanical power is used, laundries are 
treated as workshops, and are therefore under the super- 
vision of the D.C. (Amended by F. & W. Act, 1907.) 



PART VI. HOME-WORK. 

Sec. 107. Special provisions for certain classes of home- 
work. In the case of persons employed in such classes of 
work as may from time to time be specified by the S. of S., 
the following provisions shall apply : 

(1) A list of the names and addresses of persons employed 
doing such work must be supplied to the D.C. by the 



312 PUBLIC liEALTft LAW 

occupier of every factory or workshop, and by every 
contractor employed by such occupier. Such list must be 
supplied twice yearly, viz., 1st Feb. and 1st August. 

(2) The B.C. of the district in which the factory is situated 
must supply a list to any other B.C. in whose district such 
out-workers reside. 

(3) The lists kept by the occupier of the factory must be 
open to the inspection of any of the officers of the B.C., 
and such lists and also the lists of the B.C. are open to 
the F.I. 

Sec. 108. The B.C. may prohibit home-work if they 
consider that the premises in which the work is to be 
done are injurious or dangerous to health. 

Note. The power only applies to certain classes of work 
specified by the S. of S., such as fur-pulling, work in 
connection with wearing apparel, etc. 

Sec. 109. Penalty on the employer in the case of 
infectious disease. A penalty is imposed on the occupier 
who gives out home-work to a house in which there is 
small-pox or scarlet fever, unless he is unaware of the 
existence of the disease. 

Note. Only small-pox and scarlet fever are mentioned in the 
foregoing, whereas in the following section all notifiable 
diseases are included. Both of these sections apply to 
work connected with the making of wearing apparel. 

Sec. 110. Prohibits the carrying on of home-work where 
there is infectious disease. Where any notifiable infec- 
tious disease exists in a house, the D.C. may make an 
Order forbidding the giving out of home-work to such 
house. 

Note, The Order is to be served on the occupier of the factory, 
etc. 

The Order may be enforced whether the patient has been 
removed from the house or not, and remains in force till 
after disinfection to the satisfaction of the M.O.H. In an 
emergency, two or more members of the B.C. on the 
advice of the M.O.H. may act in place of the B.C. 

Sec. 112. Domestic factories or workshops in which 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACT, 1901 313 

( A dministration) 

dangerous processes are carried on, are to be regarded as 
" factories," and come under the provisions of this Act. 
Note. For definitions of domestic factory, etc., see page 303. 

Sec. 113. Abstracts of this Act may be provided by the 
S. of S. for domestic factories and workshops. 

Sec. 114. (Extended by sec. 4 of the F.W.A., 1907.) If 
straw-plaiting, pillow-lace making, or glove-making are 
carried on for the purpose of gain in any house or room 
by the family dwelling there, the house is not regarded as 
a domestic factory. 

Note. The same holds good if the work is carried on at irregular 
intervals, and does not furnish the whole or principal 
means of living of the family. 



PART VII. DEALS WITH WORK AND WAGES 



PART VIII. ADMINISTRATION. 

Sees. 122-124. Deal with the appointment of certifying 
surgeons. 

Sec. 125. Power of entry. The D.C. and their officers 
have the same power of entry as the F.I. in the case of 
workshops. 

Sec. 126. Deals with special Orders. 

Sec. 127. Establishment of business. Every person 
who begins to occupy a factory or workshop must, within 
one month, serve on the F.I. a written notice containing 

(a) The name of the factory. 
(6) Where it is situated. 

(c) Address to which letters must be sent. 

(d) Nature of the work to be carried on. 

(e) Amount of moving power. 

(/) The name of the person or firm. 



314 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Penalty for failure to send such notice, 5. 
After the F.I. receives such notice he must forward it 
to the D.C. of the district where the factory is situated. 

Sec. 128. A copy of the prescribed extract of this Act 
must be affixed in every factory and workshop. Such 
extract must contain also the names and addresses of the 
F.I. and of the certifying surgeon. 

Note. The occupier of the factory is responsible for the fixing up 
of such abstract, and it must be fixed up at the entrance or 
other place indicated by the F.I. , so that it may be easily 
read by the workers. 

Sec. 129. In every factory and workshop there must be 
kept a register showing 

(11) The children and young persons employed. 
(ft) The limewashing of the factory and workshop. 
(e) All accidents occurring therein (of these notice must be 
sent to the F.I.). 

Sec. 130. The occupier of every factory or workshop 
shall send periodical returns to the Chief Inspector of 
Factories of the persons employed in that factory or work- 
shop. 

Sec. 131. Every D.C. must keep a register of all work- 
shops in their district. 

Sec. 132. The annual report of the M.O.H. of every 
D.C. must deal specifically with the administration of this 
Act in workshops and work-places, and the M.O.H. must 
send a copy to the Secretary of State. 

Sec. 133. The M.O.H. must report to the F.I. when he 
becomes aware that any woman, young person or child is 
employed in any workshop in which the prescribed abstract 
is not affixed. 

Note. Throughout this Act, the expression D.C. means District 
Council, and when applied to Scotland should be read as 
L.A. 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACT, 1907 315 

FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACT, 1907 

This is an Act to amend the Act of 1901 with respect 
to laundries ; and, as some laundries are workshops within 
the meaning of the Act, the Public Health student should 
pay attention to the following extracts : 

Sec. 3. In every laundry 

(a) If mechanical power is used, a fan must be employed to 

regulate the temperature and carry off the steam. 
(6) Stoves for heating the irons must be separated from any 

ironing - table or ironing-room, and gas irons emitting 

noxious fumes must not be used. 
(c) The floors must be in good condition, and so drained as to 

allow water to flow off freely. 

There is a penalty for contravention. 

Sec. 5. Charitable institutions now included in the Act. 
The provisions of the F.W.A. apply to premises forming 
part of a charitable institution or reformatory (not subject 
to Government inspection), and in which the following 
processes are carried on : 

Making, altering, repairing, ornamenting, finishing, 
washing, cleaning, or adapting for sale articles not in- 
tended to be used in the institution. 

The Act applies even if the work is not done by way of 
trade or for gain, or if the persons working are not under 
a contract of service or apprenticeship. 

In certain cases, the Home Secretary may allow the Act 
to apply with exceptions or modifications as to 

*() Hours of employment. 

(6) The appointment of the Medical Officer of the institution 
to act as certifying surgeon. 

(c) Fixing of abstracts of the Act. 

(d) Examination of inmates. 

(e) Returns to be made by the managers or others in connec- 
tion with the institution. 

Sec. 6. Provides for the inspection by the F.I. of in- 
stitutions already subject to inspection by other Govern- 
ment Departments. 



316 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



SANITARY ACCOMMODATION ORDER. 

Acting under the powers conferred upon him by sec. 9 
of the F.W.A., 1901, the S. of S. has issued regula- 
tions with regard to the sanitary conveniences in factories 
and workshops. These regulations stipulate the number 
of sanitary conveniences required, and also that they shall 
be kept in a cleanly state. 

A separate set of sanitary conveniences with separate 
approaches must be provided for males and females. In 
the case of females, doors and proper fastenings must be 
provided. 

One convenience for every twenty-five males. 

One convenience for every twenty-five females. 

If sufficient urinal accommodation is supplied and there 
are over 100 males employed, there need only be 
provided 

One convenience for every forty males over the 100. 

One convenience for every sixty males over 500 will 
be sufficient, provided that the F.I. certifies that a check 
system is employed, whereby an officer specially appointed 
supervises the use of the conveniences. 

Note. Not only must every sanitary convenience be properly 
lighted and ventilated, but it must be cut off from every 
workroom by an intervening ventilated space. This 
ventilated space is not required in workrooms in use 
prior to Jan. 1, 1903, where mechanical ventilation is 
employed, as long as the air for ventilation is not drawn 
into the workroom through the w.c. or other convenience 
provided. 



CREMATION ACT, 1902. 

Sec. 2. Crematorium shall include everything incidental 
to burning human remains. 

Sec. 4. Local Authorities are given same powers to 



CREMATION ACT, 1902 317 

(Maintenance and Inspection) 

provide crematoria as they have for burial-grounds. No 
cremations to take place until plans of crematorium have 
been approved by L.G.B. 

Sec. 5. No crematorium to be erected within 200 yards 
of dwelling-house without written consent, nor within 
50 yards of public highway, nor in consecrated part of 
burial-ground. 

Sec. 6. L.A. may accept any donations toward pro- 
viding crematorium. 

Sec. 7. Secretary of State must make regulations to 
control crematoria, the conduct of operations therein, and 
manner of disposing of ashes. Also he must prescribe forms, 
declarations and certificates to be given or made before 
cremation. A copy of the regulations must lie before 
Parliament for forty days, at the end of which time they 
become law, unless one or other House appeal to H.M. to 
withhold his consent. 

Sec. 8. (1) Penalty for breach of regulations, 50. Persons 
aggrieved by conviction may appeal to Quarter Sessions. 

(2) Penalty for altering, signing or making false declaration 
of certificate to secure cremation, renders offender liable, 
in addition to other penalties, to two years' imprisonment. 

(3) Anyone attempting to secure cremation by concealing 
the commission or impeding prosecution of any offence, 
or with such intent makes any declaration or gives any 
certificate under this Act, is liable to five years' imprison- 
ment. 

Sec. 13. Applies sees. 52 and 57 of Cemetery Clauses 
Act, 1847, to the interment of ashes of cremated bodies, 
as if they were the burial of a body. 

REGULATIONS MADE UNDER SEC. 7. 
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION. 

1. Every crematorium must be kept in good order as 
regards cleanliness and operation. 



318 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

A crematorium may bo closed by Cremation Authority, 
provided a month's notice of the intention to do so is 
made by advertising in two local papers and by written 
notice affixed at crematorium. The C.A. must give notice 
of opening or closing to Secretary of State. 

2. Every crematorium to be open to inspection at any 

reasonable time by officer appointed by Secretary of State, 
or L.G.B. 



CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH CREMATION MAY TAKE PLACE. 

3. Cremation only to take place in authorised crema- 
torium. 

4. Cremation not lawful when written direction to the 
contrary has been left. 

5. Unidentified remains not to be cremated. 

6. No cremation until death of deceased has been duly 
registered, unless where an inquest has been held and 
certificate given by Coroner on Form E. 

7. No cremation to take place unless formal applica- 
tion has been made and particulars of application be con- 
firmed by statutory declaration. Executor or nearest 
relation must make application and declaration. If not 
by them good reason must be given why any other applies. 

8. No cremation to take place unless a certificate is 
given by medical practitioner who attended deceased in 
his last illness, and can give cause of death, as well as a 
confirmatory certificate given by another practitioner, or 
unless a 'P.M. has been held by pathological expert ap- 
pointed by Cremation Authority, or in case of emergency 
by medical referee. 



CREMATION ACT, 1902 319 

(Conditions under which Cremation may take place) 

9. If the confirmatory certificate is not given by the 
medical referee, it must be given by practitioner of not less 
than five years' standing, who must be either appointed by 
Cremation Authority, or be a M.O.H., Police Surgeon, 
Certifying Surgeon, Medical Referee under Workmen's 
Compensation Act, or be physician or surgeon in hospital 
of not less than fifty beds. 

10. A referee must be appointed by every Cremation 
Authority. He must be a practitioner of not less than five 
years' standing, and sufficiently experienced to discharge 
duties required by these regulations. He may be a 
Coroner or M.O.H. A deputy must also be appointed to 
act in absence of chief, or when chief has been medical 
attendant of deceased. Such appointments to be notified 
to Secretary of State. Referee may give death certificate 
if he has attended deceased in his last illness, and also he 
may make the P.M. He may also, if a Coroner, give 
Coroner's certificate. 

12. Duties of referee. To forbid cremation if written 
directions were left against it. He must not permit 
cremation unless an inquest has been held and Coroner's 
certificate granted, nor unless a duly authenticated death 
has been duly registered, and a copy of death certificate 
from register produced. He must be satisfied, before 
cremation takes place, regarding application for cremation. 

He must be satisfied that cause of death is properly 
certified and ascertained. He shall require a P.M. where 
death might have been due to poison, violence, illegal 
operation, privation or neglect. If that fails to reveal 
cause of death, he shall require a Coroner's inquest and a 
certificate by Coroner. 

If there be any suspicion whatever, he shall require 
inquest with its attendant certificate. 



320 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Coroner shall not allow cremation unless inquest has 
been held, if he has given notice that such inquest is to be 
held. 

He may decline to permit cremation without giving any 
reasons. 

Persons dying out of this country may be cremated if 
referee is satisfied with certificates, etc. 

13. Regulations 5-12 do not apply to persons who have 
been buried for not less than one year. Cremation may 
take place under such conditions as Secretary of State shall 
impose in the exhumation licence. 

14. Persons dying of cholera, plague or yellow fever on 

ship, or in hospital or temporary place of reception 
provided by Port or L.A., may be cremated if referee is 
satisfied regarding cause of death. He may, in that case, 
dispense with requirements of regulations 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 
and 12. These regulations may be suspended by Secretary 
of State during epidemics, or for any other reason on the 
application of L.A. 

15. Despite regulations 5-12, referee may permit 
cremation of still-born infant, if perfectly satisfied that it 
was still-born, and that there is no need for further 
examination. 

DISPOSAL OF ASHES. 

16. These may be given over to person who applied for 
the cremation, or they may be kept by Cremation 
Authority, and, in the absence of special arrangement, 
interred in a burial-ground. If ashes are left temporarily 
only, and not removed within a reasonable time, a 
fortnight's notice shall be given to applicant for cremation 
before ashes are interred. 



SALE OF HORSE-FLESH REGULATION ACT, 1889 321 
REGISTRATION OF CREMATIONS, ETC. 

17. Every Cremation Authority must appoint a 
registrar who shall keep entries of all cremations. 

18. Applications, certificates, statutory declarations, 
and other documents relating to cremation shall be con- 
secutively marked and filed. These are open to inspection 
of Secretary of State, L.G.B., or Chief of Police. 

19. When a crematorium is closed, all documents to be 
sent to Secretary of State. 

20. Secretary of State may make any inquiry he thinks 
fit regarding carrying out of regulations in connection with 
any crematorium. 



THE SALE OF HORSE-FLESH, ETC., 
REGULATION ACT, 1889. 

Sec. 1. Places where horse-flesh may be sold. Only to 
be sold in a place over or upon which there shall be a 
sign with letters, each not less than 4 inches long, stating 
that horse-flesh is sold there. 

Sec. 2. Horse-flesh is not to be sold for human food. 

Sec. 3. Powers given to officers of L.A. to make in- 
spections. Any M.O.H. or other authorised officer of the 
L.A. may, at all reasonable times, inspect and examine 
any meat which he believes is horse-flesh. He may seize 
and carry it away to be dealt with by a Justice. 

Sec. 4. Warrant for search may be granted by Justice. 
Any premises may be searched under such warrant, if 
there be reason to believe that horse-flesh is kept contrary 
to this Act. 

X 



322 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 5. Justice has power to make Order for disposal of 

horse-flesh kept contrary to requirements of Act. The 
Justice may specify how disposal is to be effected, and 
offence against Act is held to have been committed, unless 
offender can prove that the horse-flesh was not intended 
for human food. 

Sec. 6. Penalty for offence not to exceed 20. 

Sec. 7. Horse-flesh includes flesh of asses and mules, 
whether cooked or raw, alone, or mixed with any other 
substance. 



CONTAGIOUS DISEASES (ANIMALS) ACT, 1894, 
AND SEC. 34 C.D.(A.)A., 1878- 

This Act consolidates the Contagious Diseases (Animals) 
Acts, 1878-1893. The Board of Agriculture executes the 
Act in England, Wales and Scotland, but in Ireland it is 
the Lord-Lieutenant, acting by the advice of the Privy 
Council. It is to be noted that sec. 34 of the 1878 Act 
has not been repealed, save in one respect, viz., the powers 
being transferred from Privy Council to L.G.B. 

Sec. 4. Duty when person has a diseased animal in this 
charge. 

(a) He shall isolate it. 

(6) He must at once inform a police constable. 

(c) The constable must at once notify inspector of L. A. 

Sec. 5. Cattle plague. When the disease exists or has 
existed, within ten days in a cowshed, field or other place, 
the inspector must notify the fact to the occupier. He 
may also notify owners and occupiers of all lands and 
buildings within one mile of infected place. In that case 
all such come under the category of an " infected area." 



CONTAGIOUS DISEASES (ANIMALS) ACT, 1894 323 

The inspector must notify the Bd. of Agr. and L.A. If 
Board are satisfied with inspector's report, they must by 
Order define the area. If dissatisfied, the area ceases to 
be an " infected area." 

Sec. 6. Powers of Bd. of Agr. to declare or extend an 
area, or to declare it no longer infected. 

Sec. 7. Board may cause animals infected or in contact 
with infected animals to be killed. Compensation equal 
to half its cost to be given when animal has suffered from 
the disease. If after slaughter it is found not to be in- 
fected, full compensation, but not exceeding 40, is to be 
paid. 

i Sec. 8. Infected places and areas for other diseases 
mentioned in the Act. If pleuro-pneumonia has existed 
within thirty-six days, foot-and-mouth disease within ten 
days, the procedure is the same as in cattle plague, but the 
inspector only declares contiguous buildings or lands to be 
within the infected area. Also it is the L. A., not the Bd. of 
Agr., who declare upon the report of the inspector whether 
or not a place is infected. But the L.A. must report to 
Board, who make provision by Order for dealing with 
infected animals, i.e., pleuro and foot-and-mouth disease, 
while exposed for sale. 

In the case of pleuro, on the advice of their inspector, 
the L.A. may declare an area free after fifty-six days, and 
in the case of foot-and-mouth disease, at the end of fourteen 
days, but not longer than twenty-eight. The Bd. of Agr. 
may take the powers for action from the L.A. 

Sec. 9. Bd. of Agr. have same powers as under sec. 6. 

Sec. 10. Bd. of Agr. can declare infected areas due to 
other diseases than those mentioned. 



324 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Sec. 11. Regulates movements of animals from place 
to place if infected by pleuro or foot-and-mouth disease. 

Sec. 12. The Board may define the size of any infected 
area, limiting it to half a mile. 

Sec. 13. Notice to strangers regarding infected sheds. 
Any person having infected animals may fix on shed a 
notice warning strangers of the fact. 

Sec. 14. Animals suffering from pleuro or in contact 
with it, or exposed to infection, may be slaughtered by 
order of Bd. of Agr. Compensation equal to three-fourths 
value of animal, if found infected. 

If after slaughter there is no such evidence, full compen- 
sation, but not exceeding 30. 

Sec. 15. No limit of compensation in foot-and-mouth 
disease. Otherwise the same as in pleuro. 

Sec. 16. Slaughter after swine fever. Compensation 
half the value for infected, full value for uninfected animal. 
No limit to compensation. 

Sec. 22. Bd. of Agr. may issue placards to regulate move- 
ments of cattle, to prescribe isolation, disinfection, burial, 
disposal and transport of animals. 

Sec. 23. Adequate water supply at railway stations 
must be provided as prescribed by Bd. of Agr. 

Sec. 24. Slaughter of foreign animals. 

Sec. 25. Bd. of Agriculture and foreign cattle or fodder. 
If Bd. of Agr. believe infection may be introduced by land- 
ing of animals, carcases, fodder, litter, or dung, or other 
thing, from any specified country outside United Kingdom, 
they may prohibit its landing. 



ALKALI WORKS REGULATION ACT, 1906 325 

(Alkali Works and Alkali Waste) 

Sec. 27. Bd. of Agr. may make Orders regarding quaran- 
tine. 

Sec. 29. All such Orders to be laid before Parliament. 

Sec. 34. (1878 Act.) Dairies, cowsheds and milkshops. 
The L.G.B. may, as they think fit, make such several 
Orders for the following purposes : 

(a) Registration with L. A. of all those carrying on the trade 

of cowkeepers, dairymen, or milk purveyors. 
(7.i ) For inspecting cattle in dairies. 

(c) For prescribing and regulating lighting, ventilation, 
cleansing, drainage, and water supply of dairies and 
cowsheds. 

(d) For securing cleanliness of milk stores, milkshops, and 
milk-vessels used for containing milk for sale. 

(e) For prescribing precautions to be taken for protecting 
milk against infection or contamination. 

(/) For authorising a L.A. to make any or all of the fore- 
going regulations, subject to the approval of the L.G.B. 



ALKALI WORKS REGULATION ACT, 1906- 

This Act consolidates and amends the Acts of 1881 
and 1890. 

The administration of the Act is entirely in the hands 
of the F.I. 



PART I. ALKALI WORKS AND ALKALI WASTE. 

Sec. 1. Muriatic acid gas in alkali works must be con- 
densed to the extent of 95 per cent. 

Note. Each cubic foot of air escaping must not contain more 
than one-fifth of a grain of the acid. 

Penalty, 50 for first offence, and 100 for subsequent 
offences. 

Sec. 2. Other gases. The owner of the works, in addi- 
tion to condensing the muriatic acid gas, must adopt the 



326 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

best practicable means for preventing the discharge of 
noxious and offensive gases. 

Note. Penalty, 20 for first offence, 50 for subsequent, and 
a daily penalty of 5. 

Sec. 3. Sulphuretted hydrogen. If alkali waste or 
drainage contains substances likely to liberate H 2 S, steps 
must be taken to prevent nuisance. Penalties are the 
same as in sec. 1. 

Note. The L.A. must provide a drain if the owners call upon 
them to do so, and the drain must be discharged in 
conformity with the R.P.P.A. 

Sec. 4. Alkali waste. A penalty is imposed upon any- 
one depositing or discharging alkali waste so as to give 
rise to nuisance. 

Sec. 5. Notice. The chief inspector shall serve notice 
on the occupier of the works who has deposited waste 
which gives rise to nuisance. 



PAET II. SULPHURIC ACID, MURIATIC ACID 
AND OTHER SPECIFIED WORKS. 

Sec. 6. In Sulphuric acid works the condensation shall 
be such that the total acidity in each cubic foot of residual 
gases shall not exceed the equivalent of four grains of 
sulphuric anhydride. 

In Muriatic acid works the limit is one-fifth of a grain 
of acid per cubic foot. 

Note. Penalties, 50 for first offence, 100 for subsequent 
offences. 

Sec. 7. A penalty is imposed if the best practicable 
means be not adopted to prevent the discharge of gases 
as in sec. 6. The penalty is as in sec. 2. 



ANTHRAX ORDER, 1910 327 

(Alkali Works and Alkali Waste) 

Sec. 8. Provides for the making of Provisional Orders 
to limit the amount of gases discharged from cement and 
smelting works. 

PAET III. 

Sec. 9. Provides for registration of alkali, cement and 
smelting works, and others specifically scheduled by the 
Act. 

Sec. 12. Gives power of entry to inspectors. 

Sec. 14. Any L.A. may appeal to the L.G.B. for the 
appointment of an additional inspector, and undertake 
to pay part of his salary. Otherwise all inspectors are 
appointed by the L.G.B. 

Sec. 15. Rules. Owners are empowered to make rules 
for the guidance of their men. 

Sees. 16-21. Deal with procedure, service of notices, etc., 
and with the methods to be adopted in calculating the 
proportion of acid in the air, etc. 

Sec. 22. Empowers the L.A. to complain to the L.G.B. 
if nuisance arises from any works. 

Note. Complaint maybe made by an officer or ten inhabitants. 
The L.A. may be asked to pay expenses of any L.G.B. 
inquiry following the complaint. 



ANTHRAX ORDER, 1910. 

Supersedes the Order of 1899, and is applicable to Great 
Britain. 

Art. 1. Definitions. 



328 1'UBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Art. 2. Everyone possessing, or having had in his 
possession or under his charge, an affected or suspected 
animal must at once inform a constable in the area where 
animal is or was. The constable shall at once inform an 
inspector of L.A., who must report to L.A. The L.A. in- 
spector must also report to M.O.H. of district where animal 
is or was. 

Art. 3. (1) In case of suspected anthrax occupier shall 
(a) prevent access to suspected case, or to any part of his 
premises which has been exposed to infection, of any 
animal or fowl ; (6) detain on his premises such diseased or 
suspected animal, and any other animal which has been in 
same shed, stable, building, yard or field with such sus- 
pected animal, until it is certified that animal or carcase 
was not diseased, or till notice is served on occupier that 
bis premises are not an "infected place" within meaning 
of D.A.A.s. 

(2) Occupier shall as soon as possible disinfect with chloride 
of lime any place where carcase of diseased or suspected 
animal has lain, or where its blood has escaped. 

Art. 4. L.A. inspector to act with all haste when he is 
informed of or suspects disease. He shall put into opera- 
tion his powers under this Order as well as IXA.A., 1894. 

Art. 5. (1) L.A. on being informed of existence of 
disease must institute inquiries as to correctness of in- 
formation with assistance of V.S. 

(2) Owner or occupier of premises to give all necessary 

assistance. 

(3) If V.S. is satisfied at time of examining of animal 

or carcase by microscopical examination of its blood on 
the spot, or by other evidence that anthrax did not 
exist, he shall forthwith give L A. certificate to that 
effect. L.A. as soon as practicable to inform occupier. 



ANTHRAX ORDER, 1910 329 

(4) If V.S. is not so satisfied, he shall give L.A. certificate 
forthwith stating case is anthrax. He shall also take 
and examine one or more samples of blood or tissue 
of carcase, as may be necessary, and as soon as may 
be after his examination, shall forward to laboratory 
of Bd. of Agr. such samples as may enable a V.I. of 
the Board to certify whether or not animal or carcase 
was diseased, together with report of his examination 
of animal or carcase and any further investigations. 

Art. 6. When V.S. grants certificate that case is one of 
suspected anthrax, L.A. shall forthwith direct an inspector 
to carry out such disinfection as he may deem necessary. 
And in the case of a carcase, to have it destroyed in 
manner specified in this Order (see Art. 10). 

Art. 7. (1) When the V.S. of the Board certi6es that 
animal or carcase was diseased, the L.A. on receiving such 
certificate, shall forthwith cause, through their inspector, 
a notice to be served on occupier to the effect that his 
premises within limits specified in said notice shall become 
an "infected place." 

(2) Similar notice may be served on occupier of any premises 

which in the opinion of the L.A. have been infected 
or exposed to infection. 

(3) Where the notice imposes restrictions, these shall not 

be withdrawn until a notice of their withdrawal is sent. 

(4) When V.S. of Board certifies that anthrax does not 

exist, notice of that fact is to be sent to occupier 
by L.A. 

(5) Unless the Board otherwise direct, notices are not to 

be served in relation to market-place, fair-ground, 
sale-yard, place of exhibition, knacker's yard or 
slaughter-house. 

Art. 8. An inspector of L.A. shall with all practicable 



330 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

speed send copies of above notices to Secretary of Bd. of Agr. 
and Fisheries to police officer in charge of nearest police 
station of district. In the case of notices declaring 
premises to be "infected places," or declaring suspected 
animal or carcase to be diseased, also to M.O.H. 

Art. 9. Occupier not to allow access of animals to 
diseased or suspected animal or carcase, or to any part of 
premises which has been exposed to infection. He must 
not move, or allow animals to stray out or into the infected 
place, except as authorised expressly by this Article. Any 
horse, ass, mule or dog, not diseased, may be moved, and 
any animal, not diseased or suspected, may be moved out 
of the infected place to the nearest available slaughter- 
house, under supervision of an inspector or other officer of 
L.A., for purposes of immediate slaughter, or by written 
permission of such inspector, to some premises which shall 
thereupon be declared an infected place as indicated in 
Art. 7. Litter, dung, broken fodder, utensils, pens, hurdles 
or other things shall not be removed from the infected 
place without written consent of an inspector to L.A. 

Art. 10. (1) L.A. shall cause carcase to be destroyed by 
exposure to high temperature at farm or premises upon 
which carcase is, or upon nearest available and most suit- 
able premises ; or, if authorised by Board, L.A. may, under 
supervision of an officer of L.A., cause carcase to be 
destroyed as follows : Carcase shall be disinfected and 
then taken to premises approved by Board, where it must 
be destroyed by exposure to great heat, or by means of 
chemicals. Where neither of the foregoing methods are 
available, L.A. shall cause carcase to be buried as soon as 
possible in its skin in some convenient or suitable place 
to which animals will not have access, removed from a 
dwelling-house, and at such distance from well or water- 



ANTHRAX ORDER, 1910 331 

course as to preclude risk of contaminating water therein. 
The carcase to be buried at a depth of 6 feet at least 
below surface, with a layer of lime not less than 1 foot 
deep both beneath and above it. Where possible the place 
of burial is to be the farm or premises upon which animal 
died or carcase was slaughtered. 

(2) No diseased or suspected animal or carcase to be 
removed from farm or premises except by L.A., nor is 
burial or destruction to be undertaken by any other 
than L.A. Before burial or destruction, all natural 
openings shall be plugged with tow or suitable material 
soaked in saturated solution of carbolic acid or other 
efficient disinfectant. In no case is skin to be cut, or 
any effusion of blood caused, except by Y.S. acting 
under directions of L.A., and then only for micro- 
scopical or cultural examination. Nothing in this 
Art. shall prevent Y.S., on behalf of owner, from 
taking sample of blood, fluid or tissue in cases where 
neither history nor external lesions point to existence 
of anthrax. L.A. may cause or allow carcase to be 
taken into district of other L.A. for burial or destruc- 
tion, only if consent of that L.A. be secured. 

Art. 11. Milk of diseased or suspected cow or goat not 
to be mixed with other milk, and all milk affected by this 
Art. shall be boiled or otherwise sterilised, and any utensil 
in which such milk is placed before being so treated, shall 
be thoroughly cleansed with boiling water before any other 
milk is placed therein. 

Art. 12. No animal, whether buried under terms of this 
Order or not, is to be exhumed without a licence from the 
Board, or written permission of one of its inspectors. 

Art. 13. (1) Disinfection of the following to be per- 
formed at expense of L.A. 

() All parts in which diseased animal has died or been 



332 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

slaughtered, or has been kept at such date ; (i) every 
utensil or thing used or about such animal or carcase; 
(c) every van, cart, or vehicle used to convey any diseased 
animal or carcase on land otherwise than on a railway. 

(2) Foregoing to be cleansed and disinfected as follows : 

() Such part of place or thing to be thoroughly soaked or 
drenched with 4 per cent, (minimum) solution of carbolic 
acid, containing not less than 95 per cent, of actual 
carbolic acid ; (6) subsequently, such part of a place or 
thing shall, if its nature permit, be scraped, and where 
necessary, swept; and the scrapings and sweepings, and 
all dung, sawdust, litter, and other matter shall be 
effectually removed therefrom ; then (c) such part of a 
place or thing shall be thoroughly washed or scrubbed 
or scoured with water, and then thoroughly coated or 
washed or scrubbed or scoured with (1) a 1 per cent, 
(minimum) solution of chloride of lime, containing not less 
than 30 per cent, available chloride, or (2) 4 per cent, 
(minimum) solution of carbolic acid (of above strength) 
followed by thorough sprinkling with limewash, or (3) a 
disinfectant equal in efficiency to carbolic, followed by 
thorough sprinkling with limewash. 

(3) Scrapings, sweepings, and dung, etc., to be immedi- 

ately burned or destroyed. If destruction im- 
practicable, to be well mixed with quicklime, and 
removed from contact with animals. 

(4) L.A. at their own expense shall cause any litter, dung, 

or broken fodder, which appears to them or their in- 
spector likely to spread disease, to be disinfected or 
burned or destroyed if disinfection is impracticable. 

(5) If cost of disinfection has been increased by wilful 

act or negligence of owner of animal or carcase, L.A. 
entitled to recover such extra cost from owner. 

Art. 14. (1) Occupier of premises and owner of animal or 
carcase must, under penalty, offer every facility to L.A. 
for disinfection. 

(2) L.A. may, by notice of an inspector and served upon 
owner or occupier, require him to carry out cleansing 



ANTHRAX ORDER, 1910 333 

and disinfection at expense of L.A. Failure to obey 
constitutes an offence. 

Art. 15. No person shall expose (1) diseased or sus- 
pected animal in market, fair, sale-yard, or other public 
or private place where animals are commonly exposed for 
sale ; or (2) place such animal in a fair or other place 
adjacent to or connected with such place ; or (3) send, 
carry, or convey such on a railway, canal, river, inland 
navigation or coasting vessel ; or (4) carry, lead, or drive 
such in any highway or thoroughfare ; or (5) place or keep 
any animal in any common unless it is so fenced as to 
prevent animals grazing in a neighbouring field, or passing 
along a highway, from coming into contact with suspected 
or diseased animals ; or (6) graze such animal on side of a 
highway ; or (7) allow any such to stray upon sides of high- 
way, or upon unenclosed land or field or place insufficiently 
fenced. Notwithstanding foregoing provisions, animal 
may be moved by or under direction of an inspector of 
L.A. to some convenient or isolated place. 

Art. 16. Powers conferred upon L.A. or an inspector of 
L. A. may be exercised by Board or one of its inspectors. 

Art. 17. Provisions of this Order to be executed by 
L.A. except where otherwise provided in the Order. 

Art. 18. When anthrax is certified under Art. 5 by V.I. 
of Board, an inspector of L.A. must forthwith make a 
return thereof to L.A. and to the Board, and shall con- 
tinue to do so weekly until the disease has ceased. 

Art. 19. Horses, asses, mules and dogs (as well as 
animals specified in 1894 Act) shall be animals, and 
anthrax (known as splenic fever, or splenic apoplexy) shall 
be a disease for the purposes of sees. 43. 44 of the 1894 



334 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Act, and also for the purposes of all other sections of that 
Act which contain provisions relative to or consequent on 
provisions of aforementioned sections and of this Order. 

Art. 20. An owner or person in charge of animal is 
held guilty of an offence relative to anthrax under the 
1894 Act, unless and until he satisfies the Court that he 
had no knowledge of the existence of the disease, and 
could not with reasonable diligence have obtained that 
knowledge. 

Arts. 21, 22, 23, 24, 25. Revoke Order of 1899, extend 
it to England, Wales and Scotland, and declare it to come 
into operation on 1st January 1911. 



NOTIFICATION OF BIRTHS ACT, 1907. 

AN ADOPTIVE ACT. 

Sec. 1. Duty to notify to M.O.H. all births within 
thirty-six hours after their occurrence, (a) It is the duty 
(1) of the father, if he be actually residing in the house 
at the time, and (2) of any person in attendance upon the 
mother, or within six hours after the birth. 

(&) The notice is to be sent by a prepaid letter or post 
card, or written information may be left at office or resi- 
dence of M.O.H. The L.A. must supply forms to all 
practitioners or midwives who make application for such. 

(c) Failure to notify entails a penalty not exceeding 1. 
If the person summoned proves that he believed some 
other had sent the required notice, he is exempt. 

(d) The notification shall be in addition to the regis- 
tration of birth, as required by any Act relating to such 
registration r Registrars have the right to inspect, in their 



CHILDREN ACT, 1908 335 

districts, the Notification of Births Register kept by 
M.O.H. 

(e) This section applies to all children born at the end 
of seven months, whether dead or alive. 

Sec. 2. Deals with adoption of the Act. A L.A. must 
adopt the Act by resolution, but consent of L.G.B. must 
be obtained. As soon as this is obtained, L.A. must 
notify all practitioners and midwives in their districts. 
Any County Council may adopt the Act. 

Sec. 3. L.G.B. may enforce the Act. Where the L.G.B. 
think it necessary to do so, they may compel L.A.s to put 
the Act into operation. 

Note. Before a L.A. can adopt the Act, notice of one calendar 
month must be given to each member of Council, stating 
what the purpose of the meeting is. After the adoption 
is passed, the fact must be made known by advertisement 
or otherwise to interested persons (e.g. practitioners and 
midwives), A copy of the resolution to be sent to L.G.B. 
The Act shall not come into operation until at least one 
month from first publication of advertisement. 



CHILDREN ACT, 1908. 

Sec. 1 (1). Baby-farmers must give notice to L.A. If 
anyone takes one or more infants under seven years for 
reward and maintenance, for longer than forty-eight hours, 
apart from its parents, or having no parents, notice must 
be sent to L.A. within forty-eight hours. 

(2) Where person undertakes for reward the care and 

nursing of infant already in her care without reward, 
the undertaking of this shall imply reception of infant. 

(3) The notice to L.A. must give infant's name, sex, date 

and place of birth. The name and address of person 
receiving infant, as well as name and address of 
person from whom received. 



336 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(4) Change of address of notifier to be made known within 

forty-eight hours. If to another L.A. then it must be 
notified to that L.A. 

(5) In case of death of infant, or its removal from person 

nursing it, notice to be given to L.A. 

(6) Applies foregoing provisions to infants received prior 

to passing of this Act. 

(7) Penalties for failure to notify. 

Sec. 2. Empowers L.A. to appoint inspectors. L.A-. 
may also exempt certain premises from visitation. 
Inspector may, if refused admission, secure warrant. 

Sec. 3. Conditions and places where infants may be 
kept. 

(//) Infants to whom this Act applies shall not be kept by 
persons from whom infants have been removed by this 
or 1907 Act, unless written consent is given by L.A. 

(6) Not in premises which are unfit for human habitation, or 
such as are liable to endanger health. 

(<:) Not by anyone convicted under Part II. of the Act, or 
Prevention of Cruelty to Children Act, 1904. 

Sec. 4. L.A. can fix number of farmed-out infants which 
may be kept in any dwelling. 

Sec. 5. (1) Infant may be taken away from baby- 
farmer by an inspector under warrant from Justice. 

(a) If kept in overcrowded, dangerous or insanitary 

premises. 
(6) If kept by any person who by negligence, ignorance, 

inebriety, immorality, or criminal conduct, is unfit to take 

care of it. 
(c) If kept by any person in premises in contravention of 

provisions of this Act. 

Note. The infant may be kept by L.A. until it can be restored 
to its parents, or lawfully arranged for. 

(2) Orders made by Justice may be enforced by inspector 
or constable. In the case of an Order made by 
L.A., application for removal of child may be made 



CHILDREN ACT, 1908 337 

(Prevention of Cruelty to Children and Young Persons) 

to a Justice. It is an offence to refuse to comply 
with Order of L.A. 

Sec. 6. All deaths of infants under Act to be notified 
within twenty-four hours to Coroner, who shall order 
inquest, unless there is medical certificate, and Coroner is 
satisfied that there is no need for holding such. 

It is an offence to fail to give notice to Coroner. 

Sec. 7. An offence to insure or attempt to insure such 
infants. Companies issuing such policies guilty of offence. 

Sec. 8. An offence to make misleading or false state- 
ments. Notices to be sent by registered letter, or delivered 
at office of L.A. Same applies to notices to Coroner. 

Sec. 9. Penalty of 25 or six months' imprisonment 
under this part of Act. 

Sec. 10. Authorities who execute Act are 
(a) In County of London, L.C.C. 
(6) In City, the Common Council, 
(c) Elsewhere, Poor Law Union Guardians. 

Sec. 11. Exemptions from operations of Act. Relatives 
or legal guardians ; persons acting under any Act for relief 
of poor ; hospitals, convalescent homes ; charitable institu- 
tions for protecting infants ; boarding-schools with efficient 
elementary education. 

Not?. "Relatives" embrace grandparents, brothers, sisters, 
uncles and aunts by affinity or consanguinity. The 
relatives of illegitimate infants are those who would be 
related if infants were legitimate. 



PART II. PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO 
CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS. 

Sec. 12. Persons over sixteen who have charge of above, 

Y 



338 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

liable to heavy penalties for wilful ill-treatment, assault, 
neglect, etc. This includes neglect to feed, or maintain, 
or provide suitable lodging. If person cannot provide 
such, he is guilty of offence if he fail to secure parochial 
relief as provided by Act for such relief. 

Note, The offence is rendered more serious if any sum of money 
would be secured in the event of death of young person 
or child. 

Sec. 13. Overlaying of infants under three years by 
persons over sixteen, whilst under influence of drink, shall 
be deemed to be suffocation and neglect, likely to cause 
injury to health. 

Note. Suffocation by disease, presence of foreign body in throat 
or air passages excepted. 

Sec. 15. In rooms where any child under seven is kept, 
there must be a sufficient guard over the fireplace, or 
reasonable precaution taken to prevent risk of burning or 
scalding. 

Note. Penalty. 10 if child is killed or suffers serious bodily 
injury through neglect of foregoing precaution. 



PART VI. 

Applies Act to Scotland and Ireland, and also contains 
the following important section : 

Cleansing of verminous children. 

(1) Local Education Authority may direct their M.O. to 
inspect person and clothing of children attending ele- 
mentary schools. 

(2) If child found foul, filthy, or verminous, the Authority 
may give notice in writing to parent or guardian, requiring 
him to cleanse child and clothing within twenty-four 
hours. 

(3) If there be failure to comply, M.O. may (without further 
warrant) remove child from school, and have it properly 
treated in suitable premises and with proper appliances. 

(4) Child may be detained till cleansed. 



(FOREIGN MEAT) REGULATIONS, 1908 339 

(Prevention of Cruelty to Children and Young Persons) 

(5) If L.A. possess suitable premises and apparatus, Ed. 
Authority may demand use of such, on suitable terms. 

(6) Penalty on parent or guardian who allows a cleansed 
child to again become dirty. 

(7) Notices to parents or guardians must specify how cleansing 
is to be effected. 

(8) Girls to be examined by specially qualified practitioner, 
or specially authorised woman. 

(9) M.O. means officer appointed under sec. 13, Education 
(Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907. 

UNSOUND FOOD. 

Scotland, P.H.(S.)A., 1897, sec. 43 (page 33). 

England and Wales, P.H.A., 1875, sees. 116-119 
(page 162). 

P.H.A.(A.)A., 1890, sees. 28-31 (page 186). 

Ireland, P.H.(T.)A., 1878, sees. 132-135. 

London, P.H.(L.)A., 1891, sec. 47. 

Of General Application, Sale of Horse-Flesh Regula- 
tion Act, 1889. 

P.H. (Regulations as to Food) Act, 1907. 

Foreign Meat and Unsound Food (First Series) Regula- 
tions. 



PUBLIC HEALTH (FOREIGN MEAT) 
REGULATIONS, 1908. 

These are addressed to and will concern mainly Port 
Sanitary Authorities, certain other S.A.s defined in the 
regulations, Officers of Customs, M.O.H.s of P. S.A.s, 
Masters of Ships and all others whom it may concern. 

ARTICLE I. INTERPRETATION. 

In these regulations unless the contrary intention 
appears 

(a) Words importing the masculine gender include 
females. 



340 PUBLTC HEALTH LAW 

(b) Words in the singular include the plural, and words 
in the plural include the singular. 

(c) Expressions referring to writing include references 
to printing and other modes of representing or reproducing 
words in a visible form. 

(d) The expression cattle includes a bull, cow, ox, heifer, 
calf, ram, ewe, wether, goat and kid. 

(e) The expression pig includes a boar, sow or hog. 

(f ) The expression meat means pork, the flesh of cattle, 
any other edible part of a pig or of cattle, or a substance, 
compound, material or article of which pork, or the flesh 
of cattle, or any other edible part of a pig or of cattle is 
an ingredient. 

(g) The expression foreign used in relation to meat 
means, that brought from a place, situated elsewhere than 
in the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, or the Isle 
of Man. 

(h.) The expression official certificate used in relation to 
foreign meat, or in relation to a box, case, receptacle or 
package containing foreign meat, means a certificate, label, 
mark, stamp, or other voucher, which by a notice published 
in the London Gazette at any time during the period of 
twelve months, beginning on the 1st August 1908, or 
which, on and after the expiration of that period, by any 
further regulations under the Public Health (Regulations 
as to Food) Act, 1907, is declared to be admissible during 
the said period, or after the expiration of the said period, 
in the manner, to the extent and subject to the rules and 
conditions prescribed in that notice, or in those regulations 
as evidence, that the cattle or pig from which the meat is 
derived has been certified by a competent authority in the 
place of origin to be free from disease at the time of 
slaughter, and that the meat has been certified by the like 
authority to have been dressed, or prepared and packed 
with the needful observance of all requirements for the 



(FOREIGN MEAT) REGULATIONS, 1908 341 

( Inter pretat ion ) 

prevention of danger arising to public health from the 
meat as an article of food. 

(1) The expression FOREIGN MEAT OF CLASS I. means 
foreign meat in the form 

(a) Of scrap-meat, viz., Meat whether it is fresh, or has, 
before importation, been subjected to a process of freezing 
or other refrigeration, or to chemical or other treatment, 
with or without the addition of any preservative or colour- 
ing substance 

(1) Which consists of scraps, trimmings, or other pieces of 
such shape or in such condition as to afford insufficient 
means of identification with definite parts of a carcase : 

(2) Which has not before importation been made ready for 
human consumption in the form of a sausage, or of 
another prepared or manufactured article of food: and 

(3) Is without bone in its natural state of attachment, or 

(b) Of tripe, viz. : Any edible part of the stomach, or 
of a tongue or kidney, to which formalin or a solution or 
other preparation of, or comprising formic aldehyde, or a 
compound containing fluorine or boron, or salicylic acid, 
formic acid, sulphurous acid, benzoic acid, or any compound 
of any such acid has been applied ; or 

(c) Of several parts of the carcase of a pig or of other 
edible parts of a pig which have not before importation 
been salted, cured, pickled, dried or smoked, or otherwise 
prepared as bacon or ham, and which are not contained in 
a box, case, receptacle or package with an official certificate 
impressed thereon, or affixed or attached thereto. 

(j) FOREIGN MEAT OF CLASS II. means foreign meat 
which, being in the form of the entire carcase of a pig, has 
not before importation been salted, cured, pickled, dried or 
smoked, or otherwise prepared as bacon or ham, and is 
without the head in its natural state of attachment to the 



342 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

carcase, and is without the lymphatic glands about the 
throat, and any other part of the carcase in their natural 
position. 

(k) FOREIGN MEAT OP CLASS III. means foreign meat in 
the form of several parts of the carcase of a pig, or of other 
edible parts of a pig which has not before importation been 
salted, cured, pickled, dried or smoked, or otherwise pre- 
pared as bacon or ham, which is not and does not comprise 
any foreign meat of Class I., and which is contained in a 
box, case, receptacle or package with an official certificate 
impressed thereon, or affixed or attached thereto. 

(1) FOREIGN MEAT UNCLASSED means foreign meat other 
than foreign meat of Classes I., II. or III. 

(m) Importer means any person in the United Kingdom 
who, either as owner or consignee, agent or broker, is 
entitled to the possession, custody or control of any foreign 
meat. 

(n) Ship includes a vessel or boat. 

(o) Officer of Customs includes any person acting under 
the authority of the Commissioners of H.M. Customs. 

(p) Master used in relation to a ship, includes the officer 
or other person for the time being in charge or command 
of the ship. 

(q) Sanitary Authority means every P.S.A. and every 
Council of a Municipal Borough or other Urban District, 
and every Rural District Council whose borough or district 
includes or abuts on any part of a Customs port, which 
part is not within the jurisdiction of a P.S.A. 

(r) The District means the district of a S.A. 

(s) Medical Officer of Health includes any duly qualified 
medical practioner appointed or employed by a S.A. to 



(FOREIGN MEAT) REGULATIONS, 1908 343 

(Examination of Foreign Meat by Customs Officer and M.O.H.) 
act in the execution of those regulations ; and any other 
person appointed or employed by the S.A. under these 
regulations, to exercise any powers or to discharge any 
duties assigned to the M.O.H. 

(t) Local Authority means every Council of a Municipal 
Borough or other Urban District, and every R.D.C. not 
being a Sanitary Authority within the meaning of these 
regulations, and includes the Common Council of the City 
of London and every Council of a Metropolitan Borough. 

(u) The expression area used in relation to L.A. means 
the area subject to the jurisdiction of the L.A. for the 
purposes of the P.H.A., 1875, or of the P.H.(L.)A., 1891, 
as the case may be. 

ARTICLE II. 
Applies the regulations to England and Wales. 



ARTICLE III. EXAMINATION OF FOREIGN MEAT BY CUSTOMS 

OFFICER AND M.O.H. IN ORDINARY CASES. 

(1) The Officer of Customs must ascertain if cargo com- 
prises foreign meat on the arrival of a ship within his 
district. 

(2) The Officer of Customs may detain foreign meat of 
Class I. or II. till examined by the M.O.H. If the C.O. 
suspects that the cargo comprises foreign meat of Class I. 
or II., he shall, by notice in writing given to the master or 
to the importer, require that it shall not be removed from 
the ship, or if it has been removed from the ship, it shall 
not be removed from the place of delivery or any other 
place which the C.O. specifies in the notice, until it has 
been examined by the M.O.H. 

Note. The C.O. informs the M.O.H. of the notice. 



844 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

(3) The C.O. may allow Foreign Meat, Class III., or 
Foreign Meat, Unclassed, to be delivered without ex- 
amination by M.O.H., but if he is doubtful about the meat 
he shall, in writing, require that it be not removed till 
examined by the M.O.H. 

(4) A person shall not remove any Foreign Meat con- 
cerning which a notice has been given by the C.O. in 

pursuance of (2) or (3), without the express permission 
of the C.O. 



EXAMINATION OF FOREIGN MEAT BY M.O.H. BY 
REQUEST OF C.O. 

(5) The M.O.H. shall forthwith proceed to examine 
Foreign Meat on being informed by the C.O. 

The M.O.H. shall give a certificate if the meat may be 
removed to a place of destination in England or Wales for 
any purpose other than exportation. 

The M.O.H. shall by notice in writing forbid the 
removal of Foreign Meat, if he is of opinion that the meat 
should not be removed to a place of destination in England 
or Wales for any purpose other than exportation. 

(6) C.O. notices and M.O.H. notices and certificates shall 
set forth a description of the Foreign Meat sufficient for 
the identification of the particular consignment. 

The M.O.H. shall give every certificate in duplicate. 

One copy is given to the C.O., and one to the importer. 

The M.O.H. shall give every notice in triplicate. One 
copy is given to the C.O., one to the importer, and one to 

the S.A. 



(FOREIGN MEAT) REGULATIONS, 1908 345 
ARTICLE IV. EXAMINATION OF FOREIGN MEAT BY M.O.H. 

IN SPECIAL CASES. 

(1) The M.O.H. may examine any Foreign Meat within 
his district, whether passed by the C.O. or not, and, if he 
is of opinion that such meat should not be removed to a 
place of destination in England or Wales for any purpose 
other than exportation, he shall, by notice in writing, 
forbid its removal for any other purpose. 

Note. Such notice is given in duplicate ; one to the importer, 
and one to the S. A. 



ARTICLE V. RULES FOR GUIDANCE OF M.O.H. 

The M.O.H., in determining whether he shall give a 
certificate or a notice in pursuance of these Regulations, 
shall observe and comply with the following rules, that is 
to say 

As regards Foreign Meat of Class I. and Class II. he 
shall give a notice. 

As regards Foreign Meat of Class III. or Foreign Meat 
Unclassed, if, in his opinion, the meat, notwithstanding 
the official certificate, is diseased, unsound, unwholesome, 
or unfit for human consumption, he shall give a notice. 

ARTICLE VI. NOTICE BY S.A. TO IMPORTER. 

The S.A. shall within twelve hours after receipt of 
notice from M.O.H., give notice to the importer to remove 
unsound food. The S.A., within twelve hours after the 
receipt of a copy of a notice by the M.O.H., in pursuance 
of sub-division (5) of Art. III., or of sub-division (1) of 
Art. IV., with respect to any foreign meat, shall give to 
the importer notice in writing, which, in addition to such 



346 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

other particulars (if any) as the S.A. deem necessary or 
expedient, shall state that, unless, within twelve hours 
after the receipt of the notice, the importer gives to the 
S.A. a written undertaking to the effect that, subject to 
compliance in all respects with the requirements of any 
regulations made under the P.H. (Regulations as to Food) 
A., 1907, and in force for the time being, he will export 
the meat at his own expense, or, in proceedings before a 
Justice in pursuance of those regulations, he will prove 
that the meat is not intended for sale for human con- 
sumption, the S.A. will cause the meat to be destroyed 
under the supervision of the M.O.H. 

ARTICLE VII. DESTRUCTION OF FOREIGN MEAT. 

(1) If the importer fail to give undertaking, the S.A. 
shall destroy the meat. Where in pursuance of Art. VI. 
a notice has been given by the S.A., and no undertaking 
as is described in the notice has been received within the 
time specified, the S.A. shall forthwith cause the meat to 
be destroyed under the supervision of the M.O.H. 

(2) If the importer fail after giving the undertaking to 
export the meat, the S.A. shall destroy the meat. Where 
in pursuance of Art. VI. a notice has been given by the 
S.A., and the importer has given an undertaking that he 
will export the meat at his own expense, and he fails to 
do so within three days of giving the undertaking, the 
S.A. shall forthwith cause the meat to be destroyed under 
the supervision of the M.O.H. 

ARTICLE VIII. PROCEEDINGS FOR PROOF THAT FOREIGN 

MEAT IS NOT INTENDED FOR SALE. 

(1) Where the importer has given an undertaking to 
prove that food is not for consumption, the S.A. shall, 



(FOREIGN MEAT) REGULATIONS, 1908 347 

(Proceedings for Proof that Foreign Meat is not intended for Sale) 

within twenty-four hours, take steps to obtain the decision 
of a Justice. Where in pursuance of Art. VI. a notice 
has been given by the S.A. and within the time speciBed 
in the notice they have received a written undertaking 
that the meat is not intended for sale for human con- 
sumption, the S.A. shall, within twenty-four hours after 
receipt of the undertaking, take such steps as are prescribed 
or authorised by this Art. to obtain the decision of a 
Justice with respect to the subject matter of the under- 
taking of the importer, or to any subject matter of this Art. 

(2) The provisions of sec. 28 (2), P.H.A.(A.)A., 1890, 
with modifications shall be made use of. For the purposes 
of this Art. an application may be made by the S.A. to 
any Justice having jurisdiction in the district, and there- 
upon sec. 28 (2), P.H.A.(A.)A., 1890, whether that 
sub-section is or is not in force in the district, and any 
provision in any Act, which applies to a proceeding under 
or consequent upon that sub-section, shall have effect in 
relation to the proceedings, as if the application were a 
complaint within the meaning of the said sub-section, and 
otherwise subject to such modifications and adaptations as 
are necessary to give effect to the following provisions, 
that is to say 

(1) An Order made by a Justice under the said sub-section, as 
applied by this sub-division, shall direct any foreign meat 
to be destroyed by the S.A. under the supervision of the 
M.O. H.. if the Justice is satisfied that, in pursuance of any 
regulations made under the P.H. (Regulations as to Food) 
Act, 1907, and in force for the time being, the removal of 
the meat to a place of destination in England or Wales, 
for any purpose other than exportation, has been for- 
bidden, and that there is no proof that the meat is not 
intended for sale for human consumption. 

Where the Justice is satisfied that it has been proved 
that the meat is not intended for sale for human consump- 
tion, he shall make an Order for dismissal of the applica- 
tion. By that Order the Justice shall direct that the 



348 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

prohibition of the removal of the meat in pursuance of 
any such regulation, as aforesaid, shall cease to have 
effect. 

(2) The Justice shall further set forth in the Order the 
description of, and such other details, as will suffice to 
identify the particular consignment of meat ; together 
with the name, description, and abode of the importer, 
and of the person to whom the consignment of meat is to 
be delivered ; and shall forthwith furnish the S.A. with a 
copy of that Order. 

ARTICLE IX. PROHIBITION OF REMOVAL OR SALE OF 

FOREIGN MEAT IN CERTAIN CASES. 

Where a notice forbidding the removal of any foreign 
meat has been given by the M.O.H., in pursuance of sub- 
division (5) of Art. III., or of sub-division (1) of Art. 
IV., and a Justice has not, in pursuance of sub-division 
(2) of Art. VIII. , directed that the prohibition of the re- 
moval of the meat shall cease to have effect, a person 
shall not at any time remove the meat to a place of destina- 
tion in England or Wales for any purpose other than 
exportation. 

ARTICLE X. RECORD OF FOREIGN MEAT DESTROYED. 

Where the S.A., in pursuance of these regulations, 
cause any foreign meat to be destroyed, before the destruc- 
tion of the meat they shall cause the description of, and 
such other details as will suffice to identify, the particular 
consignment, to be duly recorded ; shall give to the im- 
porter a notice in writing of the destruction of the meat, 
including the contents of the record, and shall keep the 
record in their custody for a period not less than twelve 
months. 

ARTICLE XI. CERTIFICATES AND NOTICES BY POST. 

Any certificate or notice in pursuance of these regula- 
tions may be given by properly addressing, prepaying, and 
posting a letter containing the same. 



(FOREIGN MEAT) REGULATIONS, 1908 349 

ARTICLE XII. SAMPLES. 

The M.O.H. may for any purpose of these regulations 
take a sample of foreign meat on board a ship, or delivered 
overside, or landed within the district, and shall dispose 
of the sample in such manner as the S.A. direct. 

ARTICLE XIII. IMPROPER LANDING OR TRANSHIPMENT OF 

FOREIGN MEAT. 

A master of a ship, or another person, shall not know- 
ingly land or put on shore within the district of a S.A. 
any foreign meat which, in compliance with a requisition 
of a S.A. in pursuance of these regulations, the importer 
has caused to be exported. 

ARTICLE XIV. ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS, ETC. 

A person, in relation to anything within his knowledge, 
shall answer truly all such questions put to him by, and 
give all such information to, the Officer of Customs or the 
M.O.H., as are necessary for any purpose of these regula- 
tions ; and a person, in relation to anything within his 
knowledge, and material to any purpose of proceedings in 
pursuance of these regulations, shall make a true state- 
ment, and truly answer any questions when required, or 
put by a Justice, or other Competent Authority, in the 
course and for any purpose of those proceedings. 

ARTICLE XV. SUBSTITUTES FOU, OR ASSISTANTS OF, M.O.H. 

(1) The S.A. may, with the consent of the L.G.B., 
appoint and pay a legally qualified medical practitioner to 
act in the execution of these regulations, either in the 
place of, or as an assistant to, the M.O.H. 

(2) The S.A. may also with consent appoint or employ 



350 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

and pay a person to act under the direction of the M.O.H. 
in the exercise of any such powers, or in the discharge of 
any such duties of the M.O.H. under these regulations as 
the S.A. assign to the person so appointed. 

ARTICLE XVI. COMBINATIONS. 

A S.A. and a L.A., or two or more S.A.s or L.A.s, shall 
act together for the purposes of these regulations in every 
case in which the L.G.B., by Order, require any such joint 
action. 

In every such case, these regulations shall, in relation to 
each S.A., to each district of a S.A., to each L.A., and to 
each area of a L.A., to whom and to which the Order 
applies, have effect, subject to such adaptations and modi- 
fications as are made by the Order. 

ARTICLE X\ II. DETERMINATION OP DIFFERENCES. 

(1) If a difference arises in relation to any subject- 
matter of, or to anything done under, these regulations, 
the L.G.B. may act as arbitrators. 



THE PUBLIC HEALTH (FIEST SERIES : UNSOUND 
FOOD) REGULATIONS, 1908- 

These regulations are addressed to the same persons as 
in the case of the foreign meat regulations, with the 
exception of Officers of Customs. 



PART I. 

ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS. 

Most of the terms described are contained in Art. I. of 
the foreign meat regulations given above. Certain terms 



(UNSOUND FOOD) REGULATIONS, 1908 351 

(Examination of Food by M. 0. H. ) 

in the Arts, following are, however, specially denned, 
viz. : 

"Provincial Enactments," which means sees. 116-119 of 
the P.H.A., 1875 (pages 162-3), and sec. 28 P.H.A.(A.)A., 
1890, see page 186; sec. 43 P.H.(S.)A., 1897, see page 33 
(which relate to unsound food). 

" London Enactments," which means sec. 47, P.H.(L.)A., 
1891 (which relates to unsound food) ; and 

" Article of Food," which means an article of food which, 
as part of the cargo of a ship, is brought to, or delivered or 
landed at, a place within England or Wales, either as a 
place of actual or appointed destination, or as a place of 
deposit for the purpose of transmission to a place of actual 
or appointed destination elsewhere in the United Kingdom. 

ARTICLE II. 
The regulations apply throughout England and Wales. 



PART II. 

ARTICLE III. APPLICATION OF OTHER ACTS. 

Any provision in any Act which applies to any proceed- 
ing under or consequent upon the Provincial or London 
Enactments, applies to a proceeding under or consequent 
upon Arts. IV. -VI., as if these were part of such Enact- 
ment. 

ARTICLE TV. EXAMINATION OF FOOD BY M.O.H. 

(1) The M.O.H. has power to examine any article of 
food landed in his district, or, if necessary, while the 



352 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

article is on board ship, or after it has been delivered over- 
side and before it has been landed. 

(2) The M.O.H. has power of entry. Shipmasters and 
persons having charge of lands or premises must afford the 
M.O.H. access to ships or lands and premises at reasonable 
hours to make his examination of articles of food. 

(3) The M.O.H. must be afforded every facility for Ms 
examination by these persons, making suitable and con- 
venient arrangements, and unpacking or uncovering 
cargoes or consignments of articles of food on board ship, 
delivered overside, or deposited on lands or premises, if 
requested to do so by the M.O.H. 

(4) The M.O.H. may seize or detain any article of food 
he considers unsound. Alternatively he may, by notice in 
writing, direct the importer, the shipmaster, or the person 
having charge of the food, to retain the article at the place 
of examination, or other specified place, till it has been 
examined by a Justice, or the M.O.H. permits removal. 

(5) No detained article of food to "be removed unless 
with consent of the M.O.H. No article of food, regarding 
which the M.O.H. has given notice under (4), shall be 
removed till after the Justice's examination, except where, 
at the request or with the consent of the importer, the 
M.O.H. directs it to be taken away to be destroyed under 
his personal supervision. 

ARTICLE V.- DUTIES OF THE EXAMINING JUSTICE. 

The Justice who receives the complaint of the M.O.H., 
and who examines any article of food which the officer has 
seized, or has by notice forbidden to be removed, on being 
satisfied that it is unsound, etc., and that there is no proof 
that it was not intended for human consumption, must 



(UNSOUND FOOD) REGULATIONS, 1908 353 

(Obstruction to the M.O.H.} 

condemn it, and order it to be destroyed or disposed of 
under the personal supervision of the M.O.H., by such 
means and in such manner as to prevent its being used 
for human consumption. If satisfied that, though the 
food is unsound, etc., it has not been proved that it was 
to be used for human consumption, the Justice must make 
an Order dismissing the complaint, but on the Order shall 
give such details regarding the article as will suffice to 
identify it. A note of the name, description and abode 
of the importer, and the person to whom the food is to 
be delivered, must also be made. A copy of the Order 
must forthwith be furnished to the S.A. 



ARTICLE VI. OBSTRUCTION TO THE M.O.H., ETC. 

(1) M.O.H. may get warrant from Justice if refused 
access, if he believes that an unexamined article of food 
is deposited in any lands, etc. The warrant grants him 
power to search for, seize and carry away the article. 

(2) All facilities must be granted to the M.O.H. in his 
search by the person having custody of the lands or 
premises named in the warrant. 

(3) Any articles found by the M.O.H. after entry on a 
warrant, may be dealt with in either of the ways men- 
tioned in sub-division (4) of Art. IV. 

(4) Forbids removal of the articles, save on the grounds 
mentioned in sub-division (5) of Art. IV. 

(5) Is similar in its terms to Art. V., except that in 
complaining to the Justice, the M.O.H. must produce the 
warrant, empowering him to enter the lands, etc., and 
search for, and seize and carry away the article. 

z 



354 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

PAET III. 

ARTICLE VII. RECORDS. 

A record sufficient to identify each article of food 
destroyed or disposed of, must be made by the S.A., and 
kept for not less than twelve months. 

ARTICLE VIII. SAMPLES. 

(1) The M.O.H. may take a sample of any article of 

food for the purposes of the regulations, and, subject to 
sub-division (2) below, dispose of it as the S.A. direct. 

(2) The M.O.H. may arrange for a special examination 
of food. If the M.O.H. taking the sample thinks a special 
examination is necessary, or if he has recourse to such 
special examination at request of the importer, the latter, 
or the person having control of the consignment, must, as 
regards convenient and suitable arrangement and place of 
deposit of the consignment, afford the M.O.H., for the 
completion of his examination, all reasonable facilities, for 
a period appointed by him in writing, but not exceeding 
forty eight hours, or such longer time as the importer 
consents to, and the Medical Officer appoints by notice 
in writing. 

ARTICLE IX. 

Any notice which the M.O.H. is empowered to give, 
may be given properly by addressing, prepaying and 
posting a letter containing the notice. 

ARTICLES X.-XIII. 

These correspond to Arts. XIV. -XVII. of the foreign 
meat regulations. 



(UNSOUND FOOD) REGULATIONS, 1908 355 

(Circulars dealing with Administration) 

ARTICLE XIV. 

Powers given by these regulations are in addition to, 
and not in derogation of, any other powers granted by 
regulations under the P.H. (Regulations as to Food) Act, 
1907. Those other powers may be exercised, as if these 
had not been made. 

Penalty for disobedience or obstruction of the regula- 
tions, 100, and a daily penalty of 50. 

UNSOUND FOOD. 

L.G.B. CIRCULARS. 

In addition to and in explanation of the foreign meat 
regulations set out above, the L.G.B. have issued certain 
circulars. Two of these deal with (a) the administration 
of the regulations, and with (6) the " official certificates " 
given at the port of origin, which are to be recognised. 

CIRCULARS DEALING WITH ADMINISTRATION. 

This circular concerns itself largely with explaining 
what is meant by the expression "scrap-meat," the im- 
portation of which was absolutely forbidden by the regula- 
tions. Apparently hardship arose to dealers, and the 
intention is to provide some protection for those in 
connection with the importation of "boneless meat," and 
" imported frozen meat in boxes " (boxed meat), in certain 
forms which do not fall within the definition in these 
regulations. 

Examples not included in the definition "scrap-meat." 
Ox cheeks, ox skirts (midriffs), ox tails, pork bellies, pork 
loins, Boston butts (pork), B.H. butts (pork), shoulder 



356 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

butts (pork), fat-backs (pork). These are regarded as not 
included in the definition because, though scraps, they are 
of such shape, or in such condition, as to afford means of 
identification with definite parts of a carcase. 

Examples included in the definition "scrap -meat." 
Beef trimmings, boneless beef, cheek meat, sausage meat, 
etc. 

It is pointed out, however, that certain " Classified " 
cuts, capable of identification with parts of a carcase, are 
imported in marked boxes, and though condemned as 
"scrap-meat," should not be so. The ground on which 
they were condemned was that the cuts, though classified, 
were tightly packed in boxes and frozen solid, so that it 
was impossible to examine the pieces separately. It is 
now stated that a method of packing has been introduced 
which will permit of examination, and the L.G.B. direct 
that " in any case in which such new methods are adopted, 
and indeed in regard to ' boxed ' boneless meat generally, 
it will be desirable that the M.O.H., before giving a 
certificate which permits the removal of the meat, should 
satisfy himself that the following conditions are complied 
with : (a) That the pieces of meat contained in the box 
are so packed that on opening the box, the pieces can be 
individually separated and examined. 

" (b) That any piece so examined is of such a nature that 
it can satisfactorily be identified with the parts of the 
carcase which the box is stated to contain. 

" If ' Classified ' boneless meat is imported which does not 
comply with these conditions, it should be dealt with like 
other forms of boneless scrap-meat, by notice forbidding 
its removal for purposes other than exportation." The 
above considerations in regard to meat imported in boxes, 
also apply to meat imported in bags, barrels or other 
packages. 



(UNSOUND FOOD) REGULATIONS, isos 357 

(Circulars dealing with Administration) 

Boxed pork and other pork imported in portions less 
than the entire carcase, it is stated, will be detained for 
examination by the Customs Officer as Foreign Meat of 
Class I. unless accompanied by a recognised official certificate. 
If the M.O.H. find this to be the case, he must give a 
notice forbidding removal of the pork for any purpose 
other than exportation. 

Tripe, tongues and kidneys are liable to detention, in 
order that the M.O.H . may make an examination necessary 
to show whether or not these articles fall into the category 
of Foreign Meat of Class I., in consequence of the presence 
of preservatives. Arrangements for examining for pre- 
servatives should be made by the S.A. with the public 
analyst. 

Attention is to be specially directed to tripe, tongues 
and kidneys imported in "sweet pickle" or "patent 
pickle." 

Frozen tripe, etc., will not be detained by Customs 
Officers unless the M.O.H. make a special request. 

Carcases of pigs not imported whole, with head and 
lymphatic glands in proper position, fall into Class II., 
and are to be dealt with by notice forbidding removal for 
any purpose other than exportation. Customs Officers 
will be directed to detain pig carcases, if the M.O.H. 
intimate that he desires to examine all from any particular 
port or country, or particular consignments. Examination 
should be practicable, without a formal request for detention. 
Tuberculosis in any degree in a pig carcase should lead to 
condemnation of the whole. 

Customs Officers will telephone or telegraph to the 
M.O.H., and will fix a place of detention most suitable 
for him. A conference between the Chief Officers of 
Customs and the M.O.H. is advised. 



358 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Special attention is drawn to the notices to be given for- 
bidding removal save for exportation in the case of meat 
of Class III. found to be diseased or unsound. Examina- 
tions are to be made part of the ordinary food inspection 
in the district. All facilities should be afforded to im- 
porters for making their own examinations of meat which 
may have been condemned. 

Special forms of notices, etc., in connection with meat 
examination have been prepared by the L.G.B. 



CIRCULAR DEALING WITH " OFFICIAL CERTIFICATES. 

The circular dealing with the " official certificates " given 
at the port of origin of foreign meat, gives a schedule of 
labels and marks declared to be admissible as official 
certificates, in respect of foreign meat which consists of 
pork or other edible parts of the pig, which has been 
subjected to inspection in the following countries : 
Denmark, the Netherlands, the Dominion of Canada and 
the Dominion of New Zealand. These certificates are 
admissible where the meat is derived from a pig. 

If in the form of a label, they are only admissible where 
the label is securely affixed or attached to the foreign meat 
or the box, etc. 

The label must not have been used previously as a 
certificate. 

Prom the label the M.O.H. will be able to decide to 
what extent an examination has been made at the port of 
origin, and how thorough his own need be. 

The fact that a certificate accompanies carcases of pigs 
or any other kind of imported pork, does not exempt the 
meat from liability to examination. Even if certified, 
meat which is unsound should be dealt with as directed in 
the regulations. When the M.O.H. finds it necessary to 



(UNSOUND FOOD) REGULATIONS, 1908 359 

( Circular dealing with " Official Certificates'') 

take action with regard to certified meat, the L.G.B. desire 
to be informed. 

The circular gives further information with regard to 
the duties of M.O.H.s in connection with " boxed " pork 
and other pork imported in portions less than the entire 
carcase. When these are without an official certificate 
specified in this circular or any other, they fall into the 
category of Foreign Meat of Class I. (c), and they will be 
detained by the Customs Officer for examination by the 
M.O.H. If the latter is satisfied that they are of Class I. (c), 
he will give a notice forbidding removal for any purpose 
other than exportation. 

If they are of Class III. and have a certificate, no notice 
is given unless they are unsound. 

Edible parts of the pig are stated to include edible 
"offal," eg. pigs' tongues, kidneys, plucks, hearts, livers 
and feet. 

With regard to the official certificates, it is to be noted 
that, with the exception of that from the Netherlands, 
which is admissible only till 1st May 1909, all are admis- 
sible till 1st October 1909. 



VITAL STATISTICS. 

Since the year 1801 a census has been taken every ten 
years. 

The census gives detailed information regarding each 
county, union, registration district and sub-district and 
Urban Sanitary District. The chief data contained in the 
census are 

(1) The total numbers living in each area. 

(2) The sex of each person. 

(3) The age of each person. 

(4) The occupation of each person. 

Vital statistics may be denned as the study of the figures 
contained in the census and the calculations built thereupon. 
The basis of each calculation in vital statistics is therefore 
the population, and as the population is only taken actually 
once in ten years, the population must be calculated from 
the previous census in some way during the intercensal 
periods. 

CALCULATION OF POPULATION. 

In calculating the population at any given time, it must 
be remembered that any increase, etc., goes by geometrical 
and not arithmetical progression. That is to say, it goes 
on increasing as compound interest does. There are three 
recognised methods employed. 

(1) By the number of inhabited houses. 
360 



VITAL STATISTICS 361 

(2) From the birth-rate. 

(3) By logarithms. 

Of these, the last-mentioned is the most accurate, the 
other two being used to check the figures obtained by 
logarithm, or as a rough-and-ready method in the absence 
of calculation by " logs." 

(1) From the number of inhabited houses. The estima- 
tion in this method is made by multiplying the number 
of inhabited houses (as given in the assessment roll) by 
the average number of persons per house as ascertained 
at the previous census. The obvious fallacy here is 
that, as a result of the erection of a different class 
of house, the average number of persons per house may 
be altered. 

(2) From the birth-rate. This involves the assumption 
that the birth-rate, per 1000 of the inhabitants, remains 
fairly constant. Supposing the total inhabitants in a 
certain area in the census year to be 2000, and that during 
that year 50 births were registered, the birth-rate would 
be 25 per 1000. Several years afterwards, suppose number 
of births registered in a certain year to be 75, find the 
population: For every 1000 people there were 25 births, 
how many people would give 75 births? This is a simple 
proportion sum and would be exact, provided that the 
birth-rate remained constant. 

(3) By logarithms. (The Registrar-General's method.) 
A logarithm is composed of a base and an index. The 
index is composed of (a) a characteristic, and (b) a 
mantissa. In the common system of logarithms the 
"base" is 10. It is assumed that a power of 10 can be 
found which is practically equivalent to any number. 
Now, the greater the index of any power of 10, the 



362 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

greater will be the numerical value of that power, hence 
if one number be greater than another, the logarithm 
of the first will be greater than the logarithm of the 
second. 

Example 

347 = 10 2 -sw 2 '^- 
10 = base. 2 = characteristic. 5403295 = mantissa. 

Base is always 10 in the common system of logs. 

Characteristic can always be found by adding the 
number of figures in the number in question (347 = 
three figures) and subtracting 1 from the answer. The 
characteristic of the index of 347 is therefore 2. That is 
to say, 347 is greater than 10 2 or 100, and 347 is less than 
10 3 or 1000. It is therefore 2 point something. 

Mantissa. Finding the mantissa involves intricate cal- 
culations, and is seldom if ever done in practice. The 
value for every whole number from 1 to 100,000 has been 
calculated to seven significant figures, and is published in 
the form of a Logarithm table. 

In working with logarithms, multiplication is done by 
addition, division is done by subtraction. 

Example 

3759x4781-^2690. 
Look up log. -table and find that 



4781 = 103-W5i8 

2690 -103 -4297523 
Therefore the calculation is now 

3-5750723 + 3-679518 - 3-4297523. 
The answer is 3'824843. 
Look up log.- table and find that. 

log. 3-824843 = 6680-9 = answer. 



VITAL STATISTICS 363 

The method of calculating the population by logarithms 
at any given time is shortly as follows : 

(1) Obtain the population at the last census. 

(2) Obtain the population at the census ten years 
previous to that. 

(3) Look up the logs, for these two numbers. 

(4) Calculate the log. of one year's increase. 

(5) Multiply that log. by the number of years since the 
last census. 

(6) Add the result to the log. of the population at the 
last census. 

Xotc. The census is taken on 1st April every ten years, and the 
average population, or mean annual population as it is 
called, is always calculated to the middle of June 
(midsummer). 

Example 

To find the population of Leith in 1905. 

(1) The population in 1891 was 68,705. 

(2) The population in 1901 was 76,667. 

(3) Look up the logs, for these .and find 

68,705 = log. 4-8369378. 
76,667 = log. 4-8846085. 

(4) Calculate the log. of one year's increase as follows : 

Subtract log. of 1891 population from log. of 1901 

population ; this will give the log. of ten years' increase : 

4-8846085 
4-8369378 



Log. of ten years' increase = '0476707 

This divided by 10 will give the log. of one year's in- 
crease = -00476707. 

(5) Multiply that log. by the number of years since the 
last census. In this case we want to find the population 
in 1905. That is four and a quarter years after the 1901 



364 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

census, so take four arid a quarter times the log. of one 
year's increase, thus : log. of one year's increase = 
00476707 x 41 = -02026004 = log. of four arid a quarter 
years' increase. 

(6) Add result to log. of the population at last census 
(1901), thus : -02026004 + 4-8846985 = 4-9049585 = the 
log. of the population in the middle of 1905. 

Look up log.-table and find log. 4-9049585 = 80,345. 

The population of Leith in the middle of 1905 = 30,345. 

Note. The disadvantages of the Registrar-General's method are- 

(1) No account is taken of industrial fluctuations. 

(2) Not good for small populations. 

Xotc. Calculation by inhabited houses is good for small popula- 
tions, but does not take into account tho different 
character of houses. 

Note. Calculation from birth-rate is only useful as a check, 

BIKTH-RATE. 

All births must be registered within twenty-one days of 
their occurrence. Still-births are registered neither as 
births nor deaths. The only record kept of them is at 
the cemetery where the child is buried, if it happens to 
be disposed of in that way. 

The birth-rate is the number of births per 1000 of the 
whole population. It may be given as an annual rate, 
but sometimes weekly or monthly rates are calculated. 
The annual rate is the proportion per 1000 of the estimated 
mean annual population. The calculation of the birth- 
rate per annum therefore is easy. Given the population 
and the number of births, a simple proportion sum will 
give the births per 1000: 

Mean annual population : 1000 : : the number of births. 

To calculate the weekly birth-rate. Take the mean 
annual population and divide it by 365'24. This gives 



VITAL STATISTICS 365 

the daily population. Multiply this by 7, and get the 
weekly population, and calculate as above, viz. : 

Weekly population : 1000 : : the number of births. 

Now the weekly population remains the same throughout 
the year, and 1000 is constant; a factor can therefore be 
obtained, the weekly factor, by dividing 1000 by the 
weekly population. This factor multiplied by the number 
of births gives the weekly birth-rate. 

Of recent years the birth-rate has been steadily declining 
in all civilised countries In England in 1876 the rate 
reached its highest point, viz. 36 -3 per 1000, but fell in 
1907 to 26 '3 per 1000 (the lowest rate recorded in any 
year). In Scotland in 1900 the figure was 30'4 per 1000, 
which may be regarded as a fairly average birth-rate. In 
Germany and Hungary the birth-rate is high, in France it 
is low. The rate varies also throughout the country, being 
higher in Urban than in Rural Districts. It is highest in 
mining and manufacturing districts, and lowest in agricul- 
tural regions. 

Factors which influence the birth-rate. 

(1) The number of persons at a marriageable age in the 
population. 

'-< (2) The greater the number of marriages, the higher the 
birth-rate. 

(3) In times of peace and prosperity there is a higher 
birth-rate. 

(4) The greater the number of poor persons in the 
district, the higher the birth-rate (possibly due to later 
marriages in the upper classes). 

(o) The first half of the year has a higher birth-rate 
than the last. 

ILLEGITIMATE BIRTHS. 

Are usually stated as a proportion of the total births. 
A more satisfactory method would be to state legitimate 



366 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

births as per 1000 married women at child-bearing ages, 
and illegitimate births as per 1000 unmarried women and 
widows between fifteen and forty-five years of age. 



DEATH-RATES. 

Ail deaths must be registered within five days. Regis- 
tration is generally made on the certificate of a medical 
man, but the registrar may register without such certifi- 
cate, on personal information of the nearest relatives 
present at the death, or in attendance during the last 
illness. 

Any L.A. may call upon the registrar to make a return 
to the M.O.H. of the births and deaths within the district, 
and in the case of a death, give an exact copy of the death 
certificate. Such returns are usually made at the end of 
each week. From these returns, with the estimated popu- 
lation as a basis, the various death-rates are calculated. 

There are several terms used in connection with death- 
rates, which might be defined as follows : 

The crude or general death-rate is the grand total per 
1000. 

The recorded death-rate is the death-rate after allowance 
has been made for institutions. 

The corrected death-rate is the death-rate after correction 
has been made for age and sex. 

The standard death-rate is the average corrected death- 
rate. 

The general or crude death-rate. This is easily calcu- 
lated, as it is the number of deaths per annum from 
all causes per 1000 of the mean population at all ages; 
e.g., if the population of a town be 82,660, and the total 
deaths in a year be 1287, find the death-rate (D.R.) per 
1000, or stated as a proportion sum if 1287 deaths occur 



VITAL STATISTICS 367 

in a population of 82,660, how many deaths will occur 
in 1000? 

82,660 : 1000 : : 1287 : 15-5698 (answer). 
For reports, etc., it is usual to calculate the death-rate 
at shorter intervals than one year weekly, monthly or 
quarterly. This is done in the same way as the birth-rate 
by first calculating the daily population, etc. (see page 364), 
and from that obtaining the weekly factor. 

The recorded death-rate. This is the crude D.R. after 
allowance has been made for deaths in hospitals, etc. In 
these institutions a certain proportion of the deaths are of 
persons admitted from localities other than that in which 
the institution is situated, and these must be subtracted 
from the total number of deaths. The deaths so sub- 
tracted are not lost sight of, however, as they are recorded 
in the districts from which the persons have come. 

As a matter of fact, especially in smaller communities, 
the recorded D.R. is disregarded. 

In calculating the D.R. for any part of a district, how- 
ever, allowance should be made for any fever hospital, etc., 
which may happen to be in that area. If it becomes 
necessary to combine the D.R. of several districts, the 
average D.R. is not obtained by adding together the 
rates, and dividing by the number of areas. 

Example. If in a town, district A with a population of 
160,000 has a D.R. of 17 per 1000, and an adjacent district 
B with a population of 20,000 has a D.R. of 14 per 1000. 
What is the D.R. of the whole area ? 

The answer is not^J -15-5 per 1000, but is 16-6, 

a 

obtained thus : 

160,000 people at 17 per 1000 yield 160 x 17 = 2720 deaths, 
20,000 people at 14 per 1000 yield 20 x 14= 280 deaths, 

180,000 people yield . . . total deaths, 3000 . . . 



368 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

And if 180,000 people yield 3000 deaths, what will 1000 
people yield ? 

180,000 : 1000 : : 3000 : 16'6 per 1000 (answer). 

Corrected death-rate. This is the death-rate, after it 
has been corrected for age and sex distribution. 

The crude and the recorded death-rates are often used 
by the laity, as a means of estimating the comparative 
healthiness of two or more districts. The fallacy of this 
is obvious, for in the crude and in the recorded death-rate 
no account is taken of the age and sex distribution of the 
district. 

More people die in the age groups 0-5, and from 65 
upwards, than between these periods; therefore a town 
with inhabitants mostly at the extremes of life will have a 
greater "recorded" death-rate than a town with a "work- 
ing age " population. In one town males may make 
up the bulk of the population ; in another, females. 
In order to make allowance for this, we must correct 
the recorded death-rate by some factor which will en- 
able us to compare the D.R. of the town with that 
of the country generally. This factor for correction is 
obtained from the standard death-rate of the country 
and the standard death-rate of the town. It will there- 
fore be necessary to explain these terms before going on 
to the method by which the corrected death-rate is 
calculated. 

Standard death-rate for the whole country. This 
is the previous ten years corrected death-rate for the 
country. 

The population of England and Wales is divided up into 
age and sex groups, and the number of deaths occurring in 
each of these groups noted. This is calculated to per 1000. 
The number of deaths per 1000 in each age and sex group 



VITAL STATISTICS 369 

(^occurring in the previous ten years) is taken as the 
standard D.R. for the country. 

Standard death-rate for the town. This is a hypo 
thetical figure, calculated on the assumption that the 
deaths in the town occur at the same rate as in 
England and Wales generally. It is arrived at in the 
following manner : 

The population of the town is divided up into age 
and sex groups, 0-5, 5-10, etc. The number of deaths 
which should occur in each group is calculated (on the 
assumption that the deaths in the town will occur at 
the same rate as in England and Wales generally). These 
added together will give a hypothetical number of deaths 
which should occur in the town. This, calculated to per 
1000, is called the standard D.R. for the town. 

It will be seen that the above is really a means of com- 
parison between the age and sex distribution of the 
country and that of the town. 

Factor for correction. This is obtained by dividing the 
standard D.R. of the country by the standard D.R. of the 
town. It will be seen that, if the standard D.R. of the 
country is the same as the standard D.R. of the town (or 
in other words the age and sex distribution and all other 
things are equal), there will be no need for correction ; 
but if the two are different, the standard D.R. of the 
town must be raised or lowered in a certain ratio. This 
ratio is the factor for correction. 

Method of correcting the death-rate. The way in which 
the standard D.R. of the country and the standard D.R. 
of the town are arrived at, has already been explained. 
The recorded D.R. of the country and the recorded D.R. 
of the town are obtained from the registrar. From these 

? A 



370 



PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



figures the corrected death-rate is calculated in the follow- 
ing manner. 



Towns in Order of 
their Corrected D. R. 


Standard 
D.R. 


Factor for 
Correction. 


Recorded 
D.R. 

1906. 


Corrected 
D.R. 
1906. 


Comp'tive 
Mortality 
Figure. 
1906. 


England and Wales 
Less 76 large towns 


18-194 

18-85 


i-ooo 

0-9652 


15-36 

14-94 


15-36 
14-42 


1000 
939 


76 large towns 
Hornsey 
Brighton 
Leicester 


17-13 
15-96 
18-46 
17-05 


1 -0621 
1 -1400 
0-9856 
1-0671 


15-87 
8-84 
14-70 
14-28 


16-86 
10-08 
14-49 
15-24 


1098 
656 
943 
992 


Cardiff - 


16-73 


1-0875 


14-01 


15-24 


992 


London - 


17-31 


1-0511 


15-11 


15-88 


1034 


Leeds 


16-68 


1-0908 


15-62 


17-04 


1109 


Bradford 


16-46 


1-1053 


16-12 


17-82 


1160 


Birmingham - 
Huddersfield - 


16-91 
16-96 


1-0751) 
1-0728 


16-79 
17-32 


18-06 

18-58 


1176 
1210 


Sheffield 


16-88 


1-0778 


16-42 


17-70 


1152 



Given the standard D.R. of the town and country, and 
the recorded D.R. of the town and country, it is required 
to find the corrected D.R. for the town. 

The first thing to do is to find the factor for correction. 

Take for example the town of Sheffield. 

T-, c , standard D.R. for Country 

r actor tor correction - =L 

standard D.R. for Sheffield 



That is 



18-194 

16-88 



= 1-0778. 



1 -0778 is the factor for correction. 
The recorded D.R. x this factor = the corrected D.R. 
Recorded D.R. of Sheffield = 16-42. 
16-42 x 1-0778 = 17-70 = the corrected D.R. 
From the corrected death-rate another valuable calcula- 
tion may be made, viz., a comparative mortality figure. 



Comparative mortality figure. This compares the cor- 



VITAL STATISTICS 371 

rected D.R. of the town with the recorded D.R. of the 
whole country in the year under consideration. It should 
be noted that, in calculating the "factor for correction " as 
described above, the D.R. which is made use of is the 
annual rate for the previous ten years ; whereas in calculat- 
ing the comparative mortality figure for any year, the E. 
and W. death-rate for that particular year only is used. 

n M F _ correc t e d D.R. of town 



recorded D.R. of country 
Take again, as an example, Sheffield. 

Corrected D^R. of Sheffield = 17-70 
Recorded D.R. of Country = 15'36 ' 

17 ' x 1000 = 1152 = C.M.F. for Sheffield. 
15-36 

The comparative mortality figure for E. and W. is 
always put down at 1000, and according to the figures of 
the foregoing table, this means 

In E. and W. the D.R. is 15-36 per 1000; or in other 
words, out of every 1000 persons 15-36 died, or out of 
every 15,360 persons 1000 died. 

In Sheffield there were 17-70 deaths per 1000, or in 
other words, out of every 1000 persons 17 '70 died, or out 
of every 17,700 persons 1000 died. 

Now, if 15,360 persons in E. and W. furnished 1000 
deaths, how many deaths would 17,700 persons furnish? 
as above. 

15,360 : 17,700 : : 1000= 1152 = C.M.F. 

That is to say, the same number of persons which in 
1906 produced 1000 deaths in E. and W. produced 1152 
deaths in Sheffield, after correction for age and sex distri- 
bution ; therefore Sheffield had in that year a high death- 
rate. 



372 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

FACTORS INFLUENCING MORTALITY. 

(1) Density of population. The mortality in all the 
crowded parts of large towns is much higher at all ages 
than the mortality in the suburbs. This is probably due 
more to the greater number of persons per acre than to the 
number of inhabited houses per acre. 

(2) Age. It has been already stated that more people 
die in the age groups 0-5 and from 65 upwards than 
between these periods. So great is the mortality during 
the first year of life, that special calculations are made 
under the heading of infantile mortality. 

Infantile mortality. This is estimated somewha 
differently from other death-rates, the deaths of infants 
under one year old being stated as per 1000 births 
in the same year. The data are obtained from the 
local registrars' returns, and the calculations involved 
are simple. There are many factors influencing infantile 
mortality, such as 

(a) Insanitary surroundings. 

(b) Improper clothing, feeding, etc. 

(c) Early marriages and weakly parents. 

(d) Hereditary tendencies. 

To these might be added "Infant Life Insurance." 
Here again it will be seen that density of population is 
a potent factor in the production of a high infantile 
mortality. In fact, from the infantile mortality alone a 
fair idea as to the healthiness of any district may be 
obtained. 

(3) Season. The mortality is usually highest in the 
first quarter of the year, and lowest in the third 
quarter. 



VITAL STATISTICS 373 

(4) Occupation. This factor need only be considered in 
the age groups between 25 and 65. 

OCCUPATIONAL MORTALITY. 

In most works on vital statistics, and in the Registrar- 
General's report, a very great deal of attention is given to 
this branch of the subject, and an endeavour is made to 
estimate the effect of the various occupations upon the 
duration of life of those following them. 

The first question to be answered in connection with this 
subject is : If the occupation is a factor in shortening 
life, at what period of life is it likely to have an effect ? 

In some occupations, and especially laborious occupa- 
tions, the period is much earlier than in others, e.g., the 
learned professions, since persons following the latter begin 
work later in life than those compelled to earn a living at 
the former. 

To overcome this difficulty it has been agreed to con- 
sider the period 25-65 as being the only one in which 
occupation will be most in evidence as a factor, and only 
the deaths occurring within the limits of that period are 
considered. The death-rate in any occupation is the 
number of deaths per 1000 males living at that period and 
following the same occupation. The number living is 
learned from the census returns, and the calculation is 
made decennially ; but to make the observations more valu- 
able, the deaths taken are not only those which have occurred 
during the census year, but those in the year immediately 
preceding it, and in that following it as well. The rates 
are usually estimated for each of the age decennia, between 
25 and 65, viz. : 25-35, 35-45, 45-55, 55-65 ; and knowing 
the number in any occupation who have died in each age 
decennium during the three years, and the number alive 
at the census in each decennium, and similarly employed, it 



374 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

remains only to work out the number dying per 1000 of 
these. Thus : 

Number engaged in the same the number of 

occupation in any age decen- : 1000 :: deaths in the age 
nium, decennium. 

or, 

The deaths in the decennium x 1000 _ the death-rate of the 
The number alive in the decennium decennium. 
and engaged in the occupation. 

In this way the death-rate in any occupation and in 
each of the age groups may be calculated. Unfortunately, 
this figure cannot be accurately used as a means of estimat- 
ing the comparative healthiness of any two occupations, 
and another method has been devised. 

Comparative mortality figure. In this method the com- 
parative mortality figure for each occupation is employed. 
The method of obtaining this figure is as follows : 

The first step is to calculate what is called a standard 
population of males between the ages 25 and 65. This 
standard population is a hypothetical number of males 
(25-65), among whom 1000 deaths should occur. 

Take, then, the number of males (25-65) alive according 
to the census. Take the total deaths of males (25-65) in 
the three years, and calculate from these figures the 
number of males (25-65) amongst whom 1000 deaths should 
occur. Thus : 

Number of deaths be- _ -. ^^ whole male population 
tween 25-65, between 25 and 65. 

or, 

Male population (25-65) x 1000 _ the number in which 1000 
Deaths in three years of males deaths should occur. 
(25-65). 



VITAL STATISTICS 375 

This number is the standard population, and in it 1000 
deaths will occur. 1000 is therefore taken as the com- 
parative mortality figure of males (25-65). 

The second step is to sub-divide the standard population, 
and to find out how it is made up. How many males there 
are in each decennium from 25 to 65. This is a simple 
proportion sum. 

Take the number of males (25-65), and the number of 
males (25-35). 

To find the standard population (25-35) it can be worked 
out thus : 

Total males 25-65 : standard population : : males (25-35). 
or, 

Standard population x males (25-35) _ standard population 
Total males (25-65). of males in age group 

25-35. 

This process is repeated with each of the decennia. 

The third step is to apportion the 1000 deaths amongst 
the decennia. This is done from the death returns for the 
three years at each age period. Then, if 1000 males give 
so many deaths (per 1000), what will the number in the 
standard population at the age period (25-35) give ? 

or, 

1000 : standard population (25-35, etc.) : : death-rate 
per 1000. 

This process is repeated for each of the decennia, and 
the figures when added together will produce, of course, 
1000 the comparative mortality figure. 

As an example, take the years 1900, 1901 and 
1902. 

In these years the calculated standard population was 



376 



PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 



71,005, and when divided into age groups was made up as 
follows : 

Age group 25-35 = 26,259 
35-45-20,407 
45-55 = 14,748 
55-65= 9,591 



Total 



71,005 



Now, the death-rate in these three years (of males, 
25-35) was 6 '38, and the calculated standard population of 
males, 25-35, was 26,259, so that if 1000 contributed 6'38 
deaths, how many deaths would 26,259 contribute? 

1000 : 26,259 :: 6'38 = 168. 

The death-rate during the same three years for those 
aged 35-45 was 10'94 equal in the population of that 
period (20,407) to 223 deaths. So with the period 45-55, a 
death-rate of 18-67 = 275 in the population of 14,748, and 
in the period 55-65, a death-rate of 34-8 per 1000 was 
equal to 334 deaths in the population 9591. 



Age Group. 


Death-Rate. 


Standard 
Population. 


Comparative 
Mortality Figures. 


25-35 
35-45 
45-55 
55-05 


6-38 
10-94 
18-07 
34-80 


20,259 
20.407 
14,748 
9,591 


168 deaths 
223 ,, 
275 ,, 
334 ,, 


Total - 




71,005 


1000 ,, 



With the comparative mortality figure for all males, the 
comparative mortality figure of each occupation is compared. 
To obtain this the death-rate in each age group of any 
occupation is taken, and the number of deaths this is equal 



VITAL STATISTICS 



377 



to in the population of the same age group of the standard 
population of all males, is calculated. These added together 
give the comparative mortality figure of the occupation. 

The following table taken from the Registrar- General's 
report, in which this has been done for farmers, shows the 
deaths calculated to occur in that occupation in each age 
group of the standard population, as well as the compara- 
tive mortality figure : 



Age Group. 


Standard 
Population. 

Census 1901. 


Death-rate per 1000 in 
each Age Group, 
1900-1902. 


Calculated Number 
of Deaths in each 
Age Group. 


All Males. 


Farmers. 


All Males. 


Farmers. 


25-35 


20,259 


6-38 


3-96 


168 


104 


35-45 


20,407 


10-94 


5-66 


223 


116 


45-55 
55-65 


14,748 
9,591 


18-67 
34-80 


10-05 
20-25 


275 
334 


148 
194 


Total 


71,005 


Comparative 
Mortality Figures. 


1000 


562 



The Registrar-General, in the supplement to his report 
(Part II.) on the census, published usually five or six years 
after the census, gives comparative mortality figures for a 
number of occupations. 

In the supplement to the 1901 census report, the figures 
for the occupied, and for the occupied and retired, in each 
occupation are shown. The following table contains a few 
of the figures given by the Registrar-General : 



All males . 
Occupied males 
Occupied and retired males 
Unoccupied males . 



1000 

925 

1004 

2884 



378 



PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 





Occupied 
Only. 


Occupied and 
Retired. 


Clergyman, priest, minister 


515 


524 


Barrister, solicitor 


739 


750 


Law clerk - - - - 


880 


970 


Doctor ----- 




952 


Schoolmaster 


599 


665 


Artist 


760 


823 


Musician ------ 


1140 


1261 


Indoor domestic servant - 


815 


927 


Commercial traveller 


907 


988 


Commercial clerk 


837 


911 


Railwayman - - - 


717 


755 


Carman, etc. 


1094 


1153 


Dock labourer - 


1374 


1481 


Agriculturist - - - - 


559 


602 


Agricultural labourer 


572 


621 


Fisherman 


892 


967 


Brewer 


1324 


1393 


Publican - 


1669 


1781 


Inn and hotel servant 


1767 


1883 


Druggist ------ 


934 


999 


Tobacconist - 


898 


962 


Grocer 


670 


729 


Draper 


755 


845 


General shopkeeper - - - - 


1421 


1508 


Printer 


935 


994 


Butcher - 


1062 


1148 


Baker 


852 


922 


Tailor 


953 


1027 


Shoemaker - 


901 


984 


Filemaker 


1602 


1700 


Lead manufacturer - 


1385 


1408 


Metal worker 


973 


1027 


Plumber, painter, glazier - 


1041 


1114 


Coal miner - 


846 


885 


Potter .... 


1420 


1493 


All miners - 


859 


896 


Hawker ------ 


1778 


2007 


General labourer - 


1987 


2235 


Gamekeeper - 


561 


586 


Gardener - - - - 


527 


563 


Tallow manufacturer 


689 


764 


Glass manufacturer - 


1202 


1260 



VITAL STATISTICS 



379 



DISEASE MORTALITY. 

Disease comparative mortality figures. The comparative 
mortality figure which represents deaths from all causes is 
further sub-divided to produce a comparative mortality 

DISEASE COMPARATIVE MORTALITY FIGURES. 



Diseases. 


All 

Males. 


Occupied. 
General 
Labourer. 


Occupied. 
Clergyman. 


Occupied. 
All 
Males. 


All causes 


1000 


1987 


515 


925 


Influenza - 


23 


41 


33 


23 


Alcoholism 


16 


40 


2 


16 


Rheumatic fever 


7 


10 


4 


7 


Gout .... 2 


3 


5 


2 


Cancer - 


68 


111 


48 


63 


Phthisis - - - - 


186 


450 


53 


175 


Diabetes - 


10 


9 


13 


9 


Diseases of nervous system 


105 


154 


63 


78 


Valvular disease of heart 


36 


76 


20 


33 


Aneurism 


7 


17 


2 


7 


Other circulatory diseases 


101 


201 


62 


95 


Bronchitis 


57 


123 


6 


53 


Pneumonia 


90 


224 


32 


87 


Pleurisy - 


6 


13 


6 


6 


Other respiratory diseases 


21 


35 


6 


19 


Hernia - 


3 


5 




3 


Liver diseases - 


27 


34 


14 


25 


Other digestive diseases - 


27 


39 


35 


26 


Bright's-disease 


35 


59 


28 


32 


Other urinary diseases 


17 


29 


11 


16 


Plumbism 


1 






1 


Accident - 


59 


120 


9 


58 


Suicide - ... 


19 


31 


6 


19 


All other causes 


77 


163 


57 


72 



figure for each one of the twenty-four common causes of 
death. Each is a disease comparative mortality figure, 
and serves to show the diseases most prevalent in any 
occupation, and how the various occupations stand as 



380 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

regards the prevalence of any of the twenty-four 
diseases. 

A disease comparative mortality figure has been calcu- 
lated for each of the diseases in the following table, which 
shows the figures for all males, for labourers and for 
clergymen. The calculation is again a matter of simple 
proportion, and need hardly be detailed. 



LIFE TABLES. 

A life table has been defined as a biometer indicating 
the exact measure of the duration of life under given 
circumstances. Several methods have been devised for the 
construction of a life table, but, briefly stated, a life table 
is the life history of a certain number of persons from 
birth till death. A life table may be constructed for a 
district or for a whole country. Or a million persons may 
be supposed to come into existence at the same time, and 
are followed throughout their lifetime, the number likely 
to be alive at the end of each year or period of years 
being estimated. A separate table for each sex is usually 
calculated. 

(1) Mean age at death.. The mean age at death of a 
population is obtained by dividing the sum total of the 
ages at death by the number of deaths. By itself it is 
useless, and even misleading. In districts where the birth- 
rate is high, the mean age at death will be comparatively 
low. 

(2) Probable duration of life is a term used to signify 
the age at which any number of children born into the 
world will be reduced to one-half, so that there are equal 
chances of their dying before and after that age. Out of 
a million children born in England and Wales, the males 
become reduced to one-half their number before they 



VITAL STATISTICS 381 

reach their forty-seventh year, and the females lose half 
their number by the fifty-second year. 

(3) Mean duration of life. The expectation of life 
at birth is synonymous with the mean duration of life. 
When a population is stationary, that is, when its age 
and sex constitution do not alter, the mean duration of 
life is identical with the mean age at death. 

When a population is increasing (excess of births over 
deaths), the mean duration of life is the same as the mean 
after-lifetime. 

(4) The expectation of life at any age is the number 
of years which a person at that age will live, as shown by 
a life table. The expectation of life at birth is synony- 
mous with the mean duration of life, but at any age after 
birth it represents the mean after lifetime. 

Construction of a life table. In constructing a life table 
the two essentials are the number and ages of the living, 
and the number and ages of the dying. 

The former is obtained from the census, the latter from 
the registrar of births and deaths. 

Having obtained these essentials, find for each age group 
the death-rate per 1000, thus : 

Number living : 1000 : : the number dying. 

This death-rate is represented by the letter D. 

Taking for granted that the deaths are equally dis- 
tributed all over the year, and the iD ( - j occurs in the 

first half, and -|-D ( ) in the second half of the year, the 
population falls (if the population be taken as 1000) from 
1000 + - at the beginning of the year to 1000 - - at the 
end of it. 



APPENDIX. 

EXCERPTS FROM MODEL BYE-LAWS AS TO 
WATER - CLOSETS, EARTH CLOSETS, PRIVIES, 
ASHPITS AND CESSPOOLS. 

(The following digest embraces the main points embodied 
in the Model Bye-laivs issued by the English Local 
Government Board.} 

W.C.s. One of the sides of every w.c. or earth-closet 
must be on an external wall. Each type of closet must be 
provided with an external window at least 2 ft. by 1 ft. 
For ventilation an air brick, or other appliance, must be 
provided. A cistern for flushing a w.c. must be adequate, 
and separate from that which supplies drinking water. 
Containers and "D" traps are prohibited. When slop 
w.c.s are provided, they must only be entered from the 
external air. Every w.c. must be efficiently trapped. In 
connection with slop w.c.s, tippers, made to automati- 
cally empty themselves, must have a capacity of 3 gallons 
of water. When one tipper is to serve two slop w.c.s, it 
must have a capacity of 5 gallons. 

Earth-closets. Every earth-closet must be fitted with an 
accessible receptacle for earth. The receptacle, to contain 
faeces and earth or other deodorizing matter, must not be 
too large. Its capacity should not exceed 40 cub. ft., and 
must not be capable of containing the results of 3 months 
use. The receptacle must be impervious, and its bottom 
must be at least 3 ins. above the level of the surrounding 
ground to prevent access of rain or waste water. When 

383 



384 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

earth-closets are placed inside a building, the capacity of 
the receptacle for filth, etc., shall be only 2 cub. ft. 

Privies. Every privy must be at least Qft. distant from 
any house or place intended to be occupied by work- 
people. No privy is to be nearer a well or water-supply 
than 40 ft. Privies must be accessible for cleansing 
purposes, and entrance to them must not be through a 
dwelling or place where people are intended to be em- 
ployed. Privies must be nagged or paved with hard tiles 
or other non-absorbent material. The level of the floor 
must be at least 6 ins. above that of the surrounding 
ground, and the floor must have a slope towards the door 
of the privy of half an inch to the foot. Every privy must 
have ventilation placed as high as possible and communi- 
cating with the external air. 

Privies with movable receptacles for filth must be 
constructed in such a way that the space below the seat 
has a paved floor at a height of not less than 3 ins. above 
the level of the ground adjoining the privy. The recep- 
tacle for placing under the seat must not have a greater 
capacity than 2 cub. ft. When fixed receptacles are pro- 
vided in connection with privies, their capacity must not 
be greater than 8 cub. ft. (This ensures weekly cleansing.) 

Ashpits must be at least 6 ft. distant from houses, and 
at least 30 ft. from a well or water-supply. Capacity of 
ashpit to be no greater than 6 cub. ft. The accumulation 
in it not to extend over a week. Walls to be of brick, 
slate or flagging 9 ins. thick, and rendered inside with 
cement or asphalt. A roof to be provided. Ashpit not to 
communicate with drains. When movable ashpits, e.g., 
galvanized iron, are used, they must have handles and 
cover, and no greater capacity than 6 cub. ft., sufficient to 
contain no more than one week's supply of household 
refuse. 



APPENDIX 385 

Cesspools must at least be 50ft. distant from any dwell- 
ing, and at least 60 to 80 ft. from any well or water- 
supply. Cesspools must be accessible for cleansing, and 
must not communicate with sewers. (This seeming 
anomaly is intended to prevent the use of cesspools when 
sewers are available.) Cesspools to be of brick and 
cement puddled behind the brick with clay 9 ins. thick. 
The cesspool to be arched and provided with adequate 
ventilation. 

MODEL BYE-LAWS REGARDING NEW BUILDINGS. 

No new building to be erected on impregnated soil 
until such soil has been properly removed or excavated 
from such site. 

The whole ground surface or site of every new domestic 
building to be properly covered with asphalt or cement 
rammed solid and G ins. thick. 

If the intended site was part of a claypit, or excavated 
to such an extent as to imperil the elevation of the building 
in relation to the surrounding level of the ground, layers 
of suitable material must be laid down in the excavation 
so as to elevate the site and provide a healthy substratuir 
for the foundations. 

It may be necessary in some districts (along river- 
banks or on marshy or damp ground) to specify the 
elevation of buildings to be erected. 

Walls must be built of good brieks or stones, or other 
hard and incombustible materials, properly bonded together 
with (a) good mortar, compounded of good lime and clean, 
hard sand, or (b) good cement, or (c) good cement mixed 
with clean, sharp sand. 

When hollow walls are built, the cavity separating the 
inner and outer parts of the wall must be of a width not 
exceeding 3 ins. 

2 B 



386 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

The inner and outer parts must be tied with bonding 
ties of adequate strength formed of galvanized iron, or 
iron tarred and sanded, or of glazed stoneware. Such ties, 
to be placed at distances not exceeding ^ ft. horizontally 
and 18 ins. vertically apart. The thickness of each part 
of the wall must be 4^ ins. throughout. 

Footings to walls shall rest upon solid ground, such as 
a layer of cement or concrete. The widest part of the 
footings shall project on either side a distance equal to 
half the thickness of the base of the wall. 

A proper damp-proof course of sheet lead, asphalt, or 
slates laid in cement or other durable and impervious 
material, beneath the level of the lowest timbers, and not 
less than 6 ins. above the surface of the adjoining ground. 
When any part of the lowest storey is intended to be 
below the level of the surface of the adjoining ground, so 
that the ground is in contact with the wall of the building, 
the lowest storey must be enclosed with double (hollow) 
walls. The space between the double walls to be 2J ins., 
and the hollow wall must extend from the base of such 
walls to a point 6 ins. above the surface of the adjoining 
ground. 

The same bonding ties to be employed and in the 
same manner as before mentioned. 

The thickness of walls for domestic buildings must 
never be less than 9 ins. For buildings of more than 30 ft. 
in height, and comprising more than one storey, the thick- 
ness of the wall shall be 13.V ins. below the topmost storey, 
and 9 ins. thick for the rest of its height. Between 40 
and 50 ft. high the walls must have a thickness of 18 ins. 
and 13^ ins. subsequent to the first storey, etc., etc., up to 
heights" of 100 ft. 

\"(r1i!r1ion of rooms without fire-places. This mus 



APPENDIX 387 

be provided in the shape of apertures or air shafts, show- 
ing an unobstructed sectional area of at least 100 sq. ins. 

Subsoil drainage to be provided for all new buildings. 
The drains to be efficiently trapped before emptying into 
any cesspool or sewer. The subsoil drain to be ventilated 
as near the trap as possible. 

Rain-water pipes (down spouts) to be so constructed 
and fixed as to avoid dampness in walls. 

The lowest storey to be above the level of the sewer. 

Drains of glazed stoneware to be used, or other equally 
suitable material. The diameter of such pipes not to be 
less than 4 ins. To be bedded in concrete at least 6 ins. 
round the drain if it passes underneath any dwelling. 

Ventilation of the drain to be adequate at a point where 
it passes below the building and again where it emerges. 
Drains to be trapped from sewer at a point near the sewer 
when practicable. 

No soil pipe to have a smaller diameter than 4 ins. 

Waste pipes (from baths, wash-hand basins) to discharge 
into the open air at least 18 i?is. distant from the trapped 
gully provided. (In Scotland the practice is to lead the 
waste pipe under the grating of the gully.) 

No new building to be occupied until the drains have 
been inspected and tested. 



DAIRIES, COWSHEDS, AND MILKSHOPS 
ORDERS, 1885, 1887, 1899. 

Power to make Orders was conferred by the Cont. Dis. 
Animals Act, sec. 34, 1878, and the amended Act of 188& 
transferred this power from the Privy Council to the 
L.G.B. 



388 PUBLIC HEALTH LAW 

Epitome of Orders. 

No one must sell or purvey milk until he has been 
registered with the L.A. Every L.A. must keep a register 
of all cowkeepers, dairymen, etc., in their district. The 
L.A. must register every applicant, but such registration 
does not preclude the L.A. from taking proceedings for 
infringements or non-compliance with any regulations 
made under this Order (see page 299). The L.A. must 
advertise the fact that registration is necessary, and advise 
how it is to be envcted. Those who sell milk only to 
their own workpeople, or to neighbours who make and 
sell butter and cheese, are exempt from registration. 
No dairy or cowshed is to be in occupation unless pro- 
vision to the reasonable satisfaction of the L.A. is made 
regarding ventilation, air space, cleansing, drainage, and 
water-supply. Every applicant must give one month's 
notice to the L.A. The foregoing restrictions apply to 
the health and good condition of the cattle, cleanliness of 
milk-vessels, and protection of milk against infection or 
contamination. No one who has infectious disease, or who 
.has recently been in contact with such, to take part or 
assist in any way in the collection or distribution of milk. 
'Such person cannot resume work until certified to be no 
longer a source of danger. No cowkeeper, or dairyman, 
or purveyor of milk must allow a w.c., earth-closet, privy, 
cesspool or urinal to be within or communicate with any 
dairy or room used for the storage of milk, after a month's 
.notice from the L.A. Possible sources of contamination of 
milk to be avoided. Swine are not to be kept in any cow- 
shed or building used for keeping cows, nor in any milk- 
store or other place used for keeping milk. 

The L.A. may from time to time make regulations for 

(a-) inspecting cattle ; (b) prescribing lighting, ventilation, 

-cleansing, water-supply, and drainage ; (c) securing cleanli- 



APPENDIX 38 

ness of milk-stores, milk -shops, and milk -vessels ; (d}~ 
prescribing precautions to be taken against infection 
and contamination (see page 299). 

Regulations so made must be confirmed by L.G.B. 
L.A. must advertise regulations for one month, and permit 
them to be exposed for inspection during that time. 
Objections to the regulations must be lodged with L.G.B. 
before expiry of the month. 

Article 15 is important and states that, "if at any time 
cattle plague, pleuro-pneumonia, foot and mouth disease, 
and in the case of the cow, disease of the udder certified 
by a V.S. to be tubercular, exist among the cattle of a 
dairy or cowshed or other building or place, the milk of a 
diseased cow therein : 

" (a) Shall not be mixed with other milk ; and 

" (b) Shall not be used or sold for human food : and 

" (c) Shall not be sold or used for food of swine or 

other animals unless and until it has been boiled* 

Penalty, o." 



RAG FLOCK ACT, 1911, AND REGULATIONS. 

(1) It shall not be lawful for any person to sell or have 
in his possession for sale flock manufactured from rags, or 
to use for the purpose of making any article of upholstery, 
cushions, or bedding flock manufactured from rags, or to 
have in his possession flock manufactured from rags in- 
tended to be used for any such purpose, unless the flo^k 
conforms to such standard of cleanliness as may be pre- 
scribed by regulations to be made by the Local Govern- 
ment Board, and, if any person sells or uses or has in his 
possession flock in contravention of this Act, he shall be 
liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding, in 



390 APPENDIX 

the case of a first offence, ten pounds, or in the case of a 
second or subsequent offence, fifty pounds. 

(8) This Act shall apply to Scotland with the follow- 
ing modifications : 

(a) The expression " Local Government Board " means 
the " Local Government Board for Scotland." 

Regulations. 

Article I. Flock shall be deemed to conform to the 
standard of cleanliness for the purposes of sub-section (1) 
of Section 1 of the Act when the amount of soluble 
chlorine, in the form of chlorides, removed by thorough 
washing with distilled water at a temperature not exceed- 
ing 25 degrees Centigrade from not less than 40 grammes 
of a well-mixed sample of flock, does not exceed 30 parts 
of chlorine in 100,000 parts of the flock. 

Article II. These Regulations may be cited as " The 
Rag Flock Regulations, 1912," and shall come into opera- 
tion on the First day of July, One thousand nine hundred 
and twelve. 



INDEX 



Abatement Order, 158 
Accommodation, sanitary, in factories, 

144 

Accumulations, nuisance from, 20 
Acquisition of land, 76, 87, 99, 106 
Administrative bodies, i 
Age and sex distribution, 368 
Air space, about buildings, 92, 115 

in canal boats, 248 

in dwellings, 118 

Alkali works, Regulation Act, 1906, 325 

registration of, 327 

waste from, 326 

Ambulance, 47, 164 
Analyst, appointment of, 228 
Animals, Contagious Diseases Act, 1894, 
322 

infected, 43, in, 333 

living, 9 

nuisance from, 20, in 
Anthrax, certificate, 329 

notification of, 307 

Order, 1910, 327 
Appointment of analyst, 228 

of County M.O. H., 291 

of M.O.H. and S.I., 19, 86, 172 
Areas, unhealthy, 269 
Ash-bins, emptying of, 88 

provision of, 88, 145 
Ash-pit, construction of, 104 

nuisance from, 105 

substitution of w.c. for, 105 
Assessment, water, 74, 149 
Author of nuisance, definition of, 16 

Baby-farming, 335 

Back courts, paving of, 113, 191 

to back houses, 287 
Bakehouse, definition of, 17 

law as to, 309 

M.O.H. and, 9 

retail, 311 

underground, 310 
Bedding, disinfection of, 38 

filthy, to be cleansed, 32 
Bed recesses, 1 1 8 

Births, calculation of, 361, 364 

illegitimate, 365 

Notification Act, 1907, 334 

registration of, 202 

returns of, 202 
Black smoke, 157 

Blood boiler (see Offensive Trades) 



Borrowing powers, 74, 100 
Buildings, and made-up soil, 83, 94 

and streets, 82, 115, 168 

certificates for, 94 

height of, us 

inspection of, 94 

obstructive, 272 

open space about, 92, 115 

over sewers, 99, 141 

provisions as to, 82, 92 

public, 126 

ruinous, 20, 95, 96 

rules for new, 94 

sites for, 94 
Burgh, definition of, 17 

Burgh Police (Scotland) Act, 1892, 85 

1903, 112 

Burial Acts, 131, 204, 208 

definition 01, 16 

of infected body, 45 

of infected animal carcase, 331 

register of, 133 

regulations regarding, 133 

ground, bye-laws for, 206 
disused, 207 

law as to, 131 

memorandum as to, 205 

Butter, and Margarine Act, 1907, 244 

definition of, 232 

milk-blended, 233 

moisture in, 245 

regulations for, 237 
Bye-laws, as to hop-pickers, 177 

buildings exempt from, 4 

confirmation of, 3 

definition of, 3 

for cemeteries, 206 

for cleansing, 145 

for common lodging-houses, 59, 155 

for offensive trades, 27, 161 

for public conveyances, 45 

for slaughter-houses, 108, 109 

how to frame, 3 

matters embraced by, 4 

properties of, 3 

provisions as to, 84, 109 

under B.P.(S.)A., 1903, 124 

I Canal Boats Acts, 1877 and 1884, 246, 247 
Cattle, definition of, 16, 340 

plague, 322 

sheds, in Burghs (Scotland) Act, 1866, 

128 



392 



INDEX 



Cattle sheds, definition of, 128 

licence of, 128 

Cellar dwellings, 51, 152 
Cemetery Clauses Act, 1847, 203 
Census, 360 
Certificate, anthrax, 329 

for new buildings, 94 

of death, 203 

official, 340, 358 
Cesspool, cleansing of, 87, 145 

construction of, 104 

objectionable, 195 
Children Act, 1908, 335 

cruelty prevention, 337 

defective, 129 

farmed out, 336 

filthy, 129 

verminous, 129, 338 
Cholera, duties of M.O.H., 258 

regulations, 54, 165, 256 
Cleansing, bye-laws, 145 

of cesspools, 87 

of infected cowsheds, etc., 332 

of Persons Act, 1897, 299 

of privies, etc., 145 

of verminous children, 338 
Closing Order, burial-ground, 132 

for houses, 277, 279, 284 

regarding shops, 296 

Clothing, mangling of, 38 

to be cleansed, 32 

Common lodging-house, bye-laws for, 

59. T 55 . 

cleansing of, 6r, 155 

definition of, 16 

epitome of law as to, 57 

infectious disease in, 60, 155 

keeper of, 58 

P.M. A., 1875, and, 154 

P.H.(S.)A., 1897, and, 57 

registration of, 58, 200 

removal from, 40 

schedules by keeper, 60, 155 

water supply of. 59, 155 

Common stairs, cleanliness of, 88 

painting and whitewashing of, 

89 

Comparative mortality figure, 374 
Compensation, for damage by L.A., 80, 

'77 

for slaughter of diseased animals, 324 
Contacts, animal, 323 

Contagious Diseases (Animals) Acts, 

1894, 1878, 322 
Cc iveniences, 88 
Ccnveyance, of infected corpses, 45 

of infected persons, 42, 47 

of offensive matter through streets, 

9- 

Cottage, definition of, 275 
County, definition of, 17 
Cowshed, definition of, 299 
Cremation Act, 1902, 316^ 

registration of, 321 



Cruelty to children, 337 

Cubic capacity, in canal boats, 248 

in dwellings, 118 

of rooms, 118 

Customs and Inland Revenue Acts, 293 

Dairies, Cowshe and Milkshops Order. 
(see Appendix) 

and disease, 43 

and milk supply, 43 

definition of, 16 

inspection of, 43 

law as to, 325 

model regulations for, 299 

outwith district, 43 
Dairyman, and compensation, 123 

definition of, 16 

to produce invoices, etc. , 44 
Day and daytime, 16 

Dead bodies, conveyance of, 45 

retention of, 45 

Dean of Guild Court and offensive 

trades, 113 
Death certificate, 203 

rate, corrected, 368 
crude, 366 

recorded, 367 

standard, 368 
Decree-decern, 15 
Defective children, 129 
Definitions in B.P.(S.)A., 1903, 126 

in Foreign Meat Regulations, 339 

in P.H.A., 1875, 135 

in P.H.(S).A., 1897, 15 

in Unsound Food Regulations, 350, 

355 

Deputy M.O.H , 173 
Destruction of diseased carcases of 

animals, 330 

of unsound food, 346 
Disease mortality, 379 
Diseases of animal', 322 
Disinfection, of carcases, 330 

of filthy articles, 197 

of houses, 178 

inP.H.A.s, 3 7, 163 

Disposal of infected carcase of animat, 

33 

of infected fodder, etc. , 332 

of sewage, 64, 141 
Distilleries, effluent from, 99 
District, definition of, 17 

drainage, 68, 97 

scavenging. 31 

Disused Burial Grounds Act, 1884, 207 
Domestic water, definition of, 106 
Drain, defective, 194 

definition of, 17, 127, 136 

epitome of law as to, 62 

inspection of, 22, 102 

nuisance from, 22, 144 

to be trapped, 66, 101 
Drainage, districts, 68-97 

of houses, 100 



INDEX 



39S 



Dungsteads, emptying of, 90 
Dust-bins, see Ash-bins 

Earth-closets, B.P.(S.)A., and, 103 

cleansing of, 145 

P.H.A., 1875, and, 143 
Education Acts, etc., 129 

Local Education Authorities (ad- 

ministrative provision) Act, 1907, 222 

(medical treatment) Act, 1909, 130 

Effluent, from distilleries and factories, 

99 

Effluvia (see Offensive Trades) 
Epidemic, advertisement of regulations, 

customs and coastguards and, 56 

combination of L.A.s, 55 

L.G. B. regulations. 54, 166 

prevention of, 53 

provisions as to, 53 

sea captains, etc., 56 
Exhausted tea, definition of, 231 
Expectation of life, 381 

Factor for correction, 369 

Factory and Workshop Act. 1901, 302 

1907, 315 

and fire escape, 306 

definition of, 17, 303 

domestic, 303 

sanitary accommodation in, 144, 184 
Fellmonger (see Offensive Trades) 
Fire escapes, 306 

Food and Drugs Acts, 1875-1899, 227, 234 

(Amendment) Act, 1879, 2 5 J 

examination of, 33 

sampling of, by Bd. of Agr., 236 

unsound, 33, 162, 339 
Foot and mouth disease, 324 
Foreign cattle and fodder, 324 

meat, certificates as to, 344 

detention of, 343 

notice regarding, 344 

regulations, 339 
regulations, 1908. 329 

sampling of, 349 

unclassed, 342 

Grave, definition of, 206 
Guardian, definition of, 135 

Health officials, appointment of, 19, 86, 
172 

Local Government Act, and, 19 

qualifications of, 19, 86, 172 

Height of buildings, 115 

of rooms, 93 
Home work, 312 
Hop-pickers, bye-laws for, 177 
Horseflesh, law as to, 321 
Hospitals, district, 214 

isolation, 46, 166 

law as to, 46 

plans of, 47 



House, back to back, 287 

closing Order for, 271, 279 

cubic capacity of rooms, 118 

definition of, 15, 136 

demolition order, 272 

disinfection of, 37, 178 

drainage of, 100 

Inhabited House Duty, 293 

rebuilt and drainage of, 101 

ticketted, 119 

undrained, 140 

unhealthy, 270 

without water supply, 150, 218 
Houses let in lodgings, 49, 156 
Housing of the Working Classes Acts,. 

267, 275 

Town Planning, etc., Act, 1909, 282 

Ice-cream shops, 114 

registration of, 120 
Importer, definition of, 342 
Infected animals, 43, in, 333 

articles and laundries, 38, 197 

exposure of, 38 

areas, 322, 323 

bodies and public conveyance, 45,, 

1 80 

books, 198 

dairy. 43, 178 

fodder, etc., 330 

houses, 39, 165 

matter in sewers, 181 

milk, 43, 331 

persons carrying on trade, 41 

conveyance of, 42 

exposure of, 40, 42 
on ships, 82, 164 

removal of, 39, 40 

place. 322, 323, 328, 329 

school children, 41, 197 

sheds, 324 

ships, 257 

Infectious disease, and C.L H., 60, 155 

and dairies, 43, 178 

body dead of, 45 

disinfection after, 37 

Notification Act, 1889, 2 r>3 

Notification (Extension) Act, 1899, 

189, 256 

notification of, 36 

P H.A., 1875, and, 163 

P.H.(S.)A., 1897, and, 36 

Prevention Act, 177 
Inhabited House Uuty, 293 
Inspection (medical), 129 
Insurance of infants, 337 
Isolation Hospitals Acts, 213 

law as to, 46 

Knacker, definition of, 15 

yard, 210 

Land, acquisition of (see Acquisition) 

definition of, 15, 136 



394 



INDEX 



Laundries and infected articles, 38, 197 

definition of, 17, 303 

law as to, 311, 315 
Lavatories, 88 

Licence for cattle sheds, 128 

for slaughter-houses, 27, 171, 186 
Life tables, 380 

Lists of customers, 38, 44, 196 

of notifiable diseases, 255, 307 

of visitors to C.L.H.. 155 
Living animals and V.S., 9 

Local Authority, body corporate, 19 

definition of, 135 

powers and duties of, 2 
Local Government Act, 127 

Board, constitution of, i 
powers of, 18 

Made up soil, 83, 94, 185 
Mangling clothes, 38 
Manufactory, effluent from, 99 
Manure, on fields, 91 

removal of, 32, 90, 147 
Margarine Act, 1887, 232 

cheese, definition of, 233 

definition of, 232 

marking of, 233, 238 
Master, definition of, 342 
Mean age at death, 380 
Mean duration of life, 381 
Meat, foreign, 339, 340 

official certificate for, 340 

scrap, 341 

Medical inspection of school children, 

129 
Medical Officer of Health, appointment 

of, 5, '9 

and bakehouses, 9 

and bye-laws, 6 

and F. and W. Act, 9, 314 

and infectious disease, 5, 6, 7 

and nuisances, 8 

and offensive trades, 9 
and plans, 9 

and register of notifications, 6 

and small-pox, 8 

county, 291 

duties of, 5, 86 

L.G.B. draft regulations for, 5 

qualifications of, 19, 86 
Medical Treatment Act, 130 
Mid wives Act, 1902, 221 

Milk and cream regulations, 241 

from diseased cows, 120 

infected, 43, 331 

sample of, 229 

stoppage of supply of, 43, 122 

suspected district, 122 
Milk-blended butter, definition of, 233 

moisture in, 245 
Moisture, in butter, 245 

in margarine, 245 

in milk-blended butter, 245 
Mooring place, 258 



Mortality, in disease, 379 

factors influencing, 372 

infantile, 372 

occupational, 373 
Mortuaries, law as to, 47, 168 
Muriatic acid, 325, 326 

New buildings, open space about, 115 

plans of, 91 

site, ventilation, etc., 94 
Noise, during illness, 114 
Notice, re alkali works, 326 

service of, 22, 174 
Notifiable diseases, list of, 255 

list in F.W.A., 307 
Notification of Births Act, 1907, 334 

of deaths, 337 

of industrial disease, 307 

of infectious disease, 36, 253, 256 

of phthisis, 133, 223 
Nuisances, abatement of, 22 

definition of, 20 

discovery of, 22 

from animals, 20, in 

from drains, 22, 144 

from smoke, 21, in 

information and inspection of, 22 

law as to, 20, 156 

list of statutory, 20 

outwith district, 78, 160 

on ships, 82, 160 
Nurses, provision of, 46, 199 

Obstructive buildings, 272 
Occupational mortality, 373 
Occupier, definition of, 16 
Offensive matter, 91 

trades, 26, 161 

and Dean of Guild Court, 113 
Official certificate, 340, 358 

Open space, about buildings, 115 
Orders, Anthrax, 1910, 327 

Bd. of Agr. re quarantine, 325 

dairies (see Appendix) 

demolition, 272, 285 

for closing burial-ground, 132 

for closing of a house, 277, 279, 284 

for closing of shops. 296 

for disposal of horseflesh, 322 

for stoppage of milk supply. 122 

prohibition, 159 

provisional, 327 
Overcrowding, 157 
Overlaying, of infants, 338 
Owner, definition of, 16, 136 

Parish, definition of, 17, 135 
Pavements, cleanliness of, 89 

of private streets, 169 
Paving of back courts, 113, 191 
Person, definition of, 135 

Pig, definition of, 340 

entire, 341 

parts of, 341 



INDEX 



395 



Pig-styes, 29, 109, 146 
Pi.igue, notification of, 255 
rats and, 264 

regulations, 256 
Plans, of hospitals, 47 

of new buildings, 91 
Pollution of rivers, 98, 151, 249 
Population, 360 

fork, 335 ; 

Port, definition of, 175 

Sanitary Authority, 81, 175, 253 
Post-mortem rooms, 48 
Pratique, 263 

Premises, definition of, 15, 136 
Prevention of tuberculosis, 133 

of infectious disease, 177 

of cruelty to children, 337 
Privy, 24, io2 J 143 
Probable duration of life, 380 
Prohibition Order, 169 

Provisions, as to ships and buildings, 82 

as to bye-laws, 84 
Public building, 126 

Public conveyances, bye-laws for, 45 

and infected corpses, 180 
Public Health Acts 
P.H.A., 1875, 135 
P.M. A., 1896, 297 
P.H.A., 1904, 298 
P.H.(S.)A.. 1897, 15 
P.H.A.(A.)A., 1890, 181 
P.H A.(A.)A., 1907, TOO 
P.H. (Fruit Pickers' Xodgings) A., 

1882, 203 

P.H. (Interments) A., 1879, 205 
P.H. (Port) A., 1896, 267 
P.H. (Ships) A., 1885, 252 
P.H. (Water) A., 1878, 217 
Public Health Regulations 

P.H. (Kirst Series: Unsound Food) 

Regs., 1908, 350 
P.H. (Foreign Meat) Regs., 1908, 

339 
P.H. (Milk and Cream) Regs. ,1912, 

241 
P.H. (Tuberculosis in Hospital) 

Regs., 1311, 224 
P.H. (Tuberculosis) Regs., 1908, 

223-225 
Public Health administrative bodies, 

I, 2 

Public vaccinator, 211 

Public water-closets, 88, 144, 195 

Rack-rent, definition of, 136 

Rag Flock Act, 1911, 389 

Rating powers, 74 

Rats, Order, and regulations, 264 

and ships, 261 

Rebuilt houses, drainage of, 101 
Reception houses, 37, 46, 198 
Reconstruction schemes, 273 
Refuse, collection of, 88 

removal of, 30, 145 
Registers, of burials, 133 



Registers, C.L.H., 58, 154 

of cremations, 321 

of ice-cream shops, 120 

of notification, 6 

of offensive trades, n 
Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 

1874. 201 

of alkali works, 327 

of births, 2or 

of C.L.H., 154, 200 

of deaths, 201, 203 

of ice-cream shops, 120 
Regulations, 4 

as to buildings, 92 

as to rats, 265 

burial-ground. 304 

cholera, 256 

definition of, 4 

foreign meat, 1908, 329 

for prevention of epidemic disease, 54 

1 66 

of cattle sheds in Burghs, 128 

Public Health (see P.H. Regs.) 

regarding burial, 133 

sale of milk, 236 

tuberculosis, 223 

under Cremation Act, 317 

under Housing, Town Planning, etc., 

Act, 292 

unsound food, 1908, 350 
Removal of manure, 32, 90, 147 

of refuse, 30, 145 

Report on slaughter-houses, 107 
Rivers Pollution Prevention Acts, 1876, 

1893, 249 
Rooms, cubic capacity of, 118 

height of, 93 

ventilation of, 95 
Rubbish, receptacles for, 113 
Ruinous buildings, 95, 96 
Rural sanitary districts, 137 

Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875, 227 

lS 79 , 231 

1899, 234 

Butter Regulations, 1901, 237 

- Horseflesh, etc., Regulations Act, 
1889, 321 

Milk Regulations, 1901, 236 
Samples, at place of delivery, 232 

in course of delivery, 239 

of food by Bd. of Agr. , 236 

of foreign meat, 349 

purchase of, 228 

taking of, 229 

Sanitary accommodation, 183, 195 

in factories, 144, 184 
order, 316 

public, 25, 183, 195 

Authority, Port, 8r, 175, 342 

inspector, appointment of, 5, 19, 86 

and C.L.H., n 

and cowsheds, 13 

and milk purveyors, 13 



390 



INDEX 



Sanitary inspector and nuisnnces, 10 

and offensive trades, n 

and plans, 14 

and unsound food. 12 

duties of, 10 

sampling by, 12 

Scavenging, B.P.(S.)A., 1892, and, 87, 

9 1 . 

districts. 31 

P.H.A., 1873, and, 145 

P.H.(S.)A., 1897, and, 30, 32 
Schedules, by keeper of C. L. H., 60, 155 
Schools and infectious disease. 41 
Scrap-meat, 341 

Sewage, disposal of, 64, 141 

purification of, 64, 139 
Sewers, alteration of, 97 

and chemical refuse, 181 

and drains, B.P (S.)A., 1892, 96 

P.H.A., 1875, 138 

P.H.(S)A., 1897,61 

and infected matter, 181 

buildings over, 99, 141 

definition of, 61, 137 

epitome of law as to. 61, 62 

repair of, 139 

trapping of, 99 

ventilation of, 66, 09 
Ships, coasting,. 264 

definition of, 15 

infected and suspected, 257 

infected persons on board, 82, 164 

mooring place for, 258 

nuisances on, 82, 160 

outward bound, 263 

rats and. 261 

signals, 262 
Shops Act, 1912, 295 
Sites for buildings, 94 
for hospitals, 47 
Slaughter-house, bye-laws as to, 108 

definition of, 16, 137 

law as to, 29, 107, 137, 170 

licensed, 27, 186 

memorandum, 208 
Slaughterer of cattle, etc . 15 
Small-pox, and M.O.H., S 

Smoke Abatement Acts, nuisance, 21, 

'"i 157 

Snow, removal of, 89 
Soil pipes, 103 
Special drainage district, 97 

water supply district. 72 
Stairs, ventilation of, 95 
Standard death-rate, 368 

Statutory declaration, and vaccination, 

130 
Streets and buildings, 82, 115, 168 

definition of, 15, 136 

paving of, 169 
Sulphuretted hydrogen, 326 
Sulphuric acid. 326 
Surveyor, definition of, 135 
Suspected district (milk), 122 



Suspected ship. 257 
Swine fever, 324 

Tables, life, 3 So 

Tallow-melter, 26 

Tea. exhausted, 231 

Tenements, number of houses in, 92 

Tents and vans, 50, 177 

Ticketted houses, 119 

Town planning, 272, 288 

Towns Improvement Clauses Act, 1847, 

208 

Trade refuse, 87, 195 
Trapping of sewers and drains, 99, 101 
Tripe-boiler, definition of, 341 
Tuberculosis, cow's milk and, 121 

regulations, 233 

- P.H.(S.)A., 1897, and, 42, 133 

P.H. (Tuberculosis) Kegs., 223-225 

prevention and notification of, 133 

Underground dwellings, 51, 152 
Undrained houses, 140 
Unhealthy areas, 269 
- dwelling houses, 270 
Union, definition of, 135 
Unsound food and V.S., 

r destruction of, 346 

epitome of law, 339 

examination of, 354 
L.G.B. circulars, 355 

P.H. A., 1875, and, 162 

P.H.(S.)A., 1897, and, 33 
regulations, 1908, 350 

samples of, 354 

seizure of, 352 
Urban sanitary district, 137 

Vaccination, 52 

Acts, 130, 2ii 

and Poor Law Authority, 130 

conscientious objection to, 130 

L.G.B. and, 53 

public, 130 

stations, 213 

statutory declaration, 130 
Vans (see Tents) 

Vault, construction of, 207 

definition of, 706 
Ventilation by shafts, 99 

of common stairs, etc., 95 

of drains, 101 

of every building, 95 

of new buildings, 82, 118 

of sewers, 66, 99 
Verminous children, 129, 338 
Veterinary surgeon, and diseased cows,. 

43, 121 

definition of, 120 
Vital statistics, 360 

Warrant for removal of baby, 336 

for search for horseflesh, 321 
Warranties. 230 



INDEX 



397 



"Warranties, forging of, 231 

Water Works Clauses Act, 107, 149 

definition of, 137 

closets, absence of, 143 

B.P.(S.)A., and, 102 

cleanliness of, 88 

cleansing of, 145 

construction of, 104 

epitome of law, 24 
for public places, 105 

P.H.A.,and, 143 

P.H.(S.)A.,-and, 24 

public, 88, 144 
Water, domestic. 106 

pollution of. 98, 151 

supply, B.P.(S.)A. , and, 106 



Water supply, epitome of law as to, 69 

for cattle, 324 

for C.L.H., 59, 155 

. P. H.A. , and, 147 

P.H(.S.)A., and. 69 

provision of by Commissioners, 105 
by owners. 102 

Windows of sleeping apartments, 117 
Woman, definition of, 303 
Working classes, houses for, 275 
Work-place, definition of, 303 
Workshops, definition of, 17, 303 
tenement, 303 

Yellow fever, regulations as to, 256 
Young person, definition of, 303 



Suitable for Candidates for the D. P. H. 

Public Health. Catechism Series. Second Edition. 
Revised by W. ROBERTSON, M.D., D.P.H., Medical 
Officer of Health, Leith. 5 parts, is. net each, or in 
one volume, paper, 45. net. ; cloth, 45. 6d. net. 

Part i Water. 

Part 2 Air and Ventilation Warming' Lighting Climate. 
Part 3 Sewag-e and its Treatment. 
Part 4 Vital Statistics Dwelling's Meteorology. 
Part 5 Epidemiology Food Burial Water-Closets Disinfect- 
ants Heating- Hospitals. 

" We can with confidence recommend it as being- very serviceable 
for candidates to revise their work before examination." Medical Times, 

"The author has put the necessary questions in a very concise and 
at times a very telling- form. 1 ' British JMedical Journal. 

"To the candidate for examination whose opportunities for study are 
intermittent, the handy form of each part should appeal very strongly. " 
Medical Officer, 



- 



Bl 

Hi 



0); 

.a I 



University of Toronto 
library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Uder Pt "Ref . ladtx Ffle" 

Made bj LIBRARY BUREAU 



