"^^^^^/^ 







to 



I 

[ Household Science 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



VOL. IV, 1912 
COMPLETE IN FIVE NUMBERS 



BALTIMORE, MD. 
1912 







1101588 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IV FEBRUARY, 191 2 No. i 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1912. 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, :Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helen Kinne, Teachers College, New York City. 

Extension, Miss Anna Barrows, 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Mass. 

Food and Nutrition, Dr. C. F. Langwortiiy, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. 

Texti Es AND Clothing, Miss Abby L. Maklatt, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wis. 

The House, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana. 

.Administr,\tion, Mrs. Melvtl Dewey, Lake Placid, New York. 

Ths Family, Dr. Tho.\ias D. Wood, Teachers College, New York City. 

Affiliated Societies — Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

February, 1912 

Lake Placid meeting of .American Home Economics .Association i 

Food administration: Plan, equipment, cost, and organization of kitchens 

and dining rooms, .\nnie Dewey 2 

The lunchroom in business. Gertrude Sanborn 9 

Control of insect pests in institutions, E. Porter Felt. 16 

Some general principles ap|)licable to the jiurchasing and handling of sup- 
plies for public institutions. Henry C. Wright 26 

L'niform accounting for institutions. William Morse Cole ,^9 

Tenement house super\asion. Emily Wayland Dinwddie 51 

Graphic chart<;, Melvil Dewey 55 

The respiration calorimeter of the U. S. Department of .\griculture and 

work undertaken with it, C. F. Langworthy 57 

State and municipal documents as sources of information for institution 

managers and other students of Home Economics. C. F. Langworthy. ... 59 
Principles of management applied to scientific management. Royal R. 

Keeley 74 

Market inspection work carried on by the Women's Municipal League, 

.\my Vidis Bradley 75 

Concerning institutional management, Sarah Louise .\rnold 79 

Business session of the Lake Placid Meeting 83 

Bibliography of Home Economics literature, Dec. i. 1911 84 

^Minutes of the fourth annual meeting, .\meric;.n Home Economics .Asso- 
ciation 90 

Home Economics in 191 2. Isabel Bevier 90 

Secretary's rejiort 94 

Treasurer's report 95 

Program of the fourth annual meetin<i 102 

^linutes of the council 105 

Editorials 1 c6 



THE 

Journal ^/Home Economics 

Vol. IV. FEBRUARY, 191 2 No. i 

LAKE PLACID MEETING OF AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

Institution Economics Section. 

The meeting of the Administration Section of the American Home 
Economics Association was held at Lake Placid, June 27-July i, 1911. 
The program and a brief report of the meeting was given in the Octo- 
ber number of the Journal of Home Economics while in this number 
will be given a brief report of the discussions and several papers pre- 
sented at the meeting. 

It was fitting that the first session be opened with a tribute to Mrs. 
Ellen H. Richards. Mrs. Melvil Dewey, chairman, in calling the 
meeting to order stated that while this was the second annual gath- 
ering of the Administration Section it was the tenth conference on 
Home Economics which has met at the Lake Placid Club. During 
the ten years existence of the Lake Placid Conference two of its annual 
meetings were by special invitation held elsewhere, in 1903 in Boston 
in joint session with the Manual Training Section of the National 
Education Association and in 190S by request at Chautaqua. 

Mrs. Dewey said: " In looking back over these years we miss today 
one who has been our leader from the beginning, to whom is due the 
wise guidance and unusual progress which has marked this work. 
The joy of service was hers, the highest ambition which inspires great 
discoveries in any field. With her, 'achievement was but the start- 
ing point to new endeavor.' Her ideal of happiness was well defined 
by Mme. de Stael as ' constant occupation upon some desirable object 
Math a continued sense of progress towards its attainment.' The key 
note of unselfish service which she struck is sounding today. Those 



2 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

who knew her personally can never forget it and by its inspiration we 
may go on with continued and increasing progress." 

In the address of welcome by Mr. Melvil Dewey there was empha- 
sized the present day need for an exchange of the results of experience 
and experiment in the efifort toward efficiency in work involving the care 
of large groups of persons and the part which the Administration Sec- 
tion of the American Home Economics Association could play in work- 
ing out this problem. 

The following papers were read and discussed at the several sessions: 

FOOD ADMINISTRATION: PLAN, EQUIPMENT, COST. 

AND ORGANIZATION OF KITCHENS AND 

DINING ROOMS. 

Annie Dewey. 

Lake Placid Club. 

The problem of feeding large numbers successfully requires that the 
administrative plant be specially adapted to the type of institution, 
numbers to be fed, kind of menu required, length of meal hours, facil- 
ities for keeping food warm, and funds available, and also to the 
possibihties for growth. 

Institutions may be divided roughly into five types: (i) Educa- 
tional — schools and colleges; (2) philanthropic — asylums, homes, 
hospitals, orphanages, sanitariums, settlements; (3) commercial — 
hotels, summer resorts, restaurants, lunch and tea rooms; (4) social — 
clubs, settlements, camps; and (5) government, state, county, munici- 
pal — military and naval barracks, almshouses, prisons, houses of 
detention, reformatories. 

A definite plan of a working plant of the social type, a private club, 
equipped with modern machinery and labor-saving devices to care for 
200 guests and about 65 employees, is taken as a working basis. The 
menu, meal hours, and general conditions stand about midway be- 
tween college dining rooms and elaborate hotels. The space devoted 
to food preparation is 40 by 80 feet. (See plan on page 7 .) 

The kitchen is 30 by 40 feet, one story, with seven windows on each 
side and a lantern overhead having the same number of windows, giv- 
ing the best possible Ught and ventilation. The floor is of comb 
grained Georgia pine finished with one coat of filler and one coat of 



19 1 2] Food Administration 3 

boiled linseed oil; both walls and ceiling are Georgia pine, finished with 
varnish which can be wiped oflF easily or washed if necessary. A 
house open only for a short summer season of three months does not 
justify tile and expensive construction. The entrance platform, nearly 
8 feet above ground, has side raihngs high enough to conceal ash and 
garbage cans, with space underneath for fuel. The chimney has a 
large ventilating flue for carrying oflf cooking odors, with a hood 28 
feet long covering three fire ranges, a charcoal broiler, two kettles for 
stock and soup, and two vegetable steamers. Other equipment in- 
cludes the cook's tables with a bain marie and a 16-foot sauce pan 
rack overhead, a pot sink with drain boards, a plate warmer, a dish 
washer with scraping and dish tables, a tray and bread tables, an auto- 
matic egg boiler with three compartments, and a candng or steam 
table. The cost of these without steam fittings and connections is 
$1880. 

The pastry room is 20 by 22 feet and contains two working tables, 
a griddle range, an oven, a pudding steamer, a copper kettle, a sink, 
a refrigerator, a creamer, and a long counter. 

The serving room is 20 by 22 feet and has two glass and silver sinks, 
with long drain boards, a table, coffee urns, and a cup and roll warmer. 

The vegetable room, 18 by 20 feet, contains an ice chopping box, a 
fish box, a sink, a table and dumb waiter for serving meals for maids on 
the floor below, and stairways. 

The butcher shop, 20 by 22 feet, has a sink, a meat block, a meat 
bench, a grocery and two cold storage rooms 8 by 14 feet with ice 
bunkers overhead, filled from an ice house platform and pulleys, which 
connect with the rear of the building. 

The equipment of these four rooms cost about $2000, the insulated 
cold storage and bunker rooms at $800 being the most expensive item. 
A 1 2 -horse power upright tubular boiler with 15 pounds steam pressure, 
at $200, with all expenses of dehvering, setting up, steam and retxim 
connections, brings the machinery equipment to $4755. 

Small utensils considered necessary make a list of 152 items and 920 
separate articles counting dozens and different sizes, costing $1137, a 
total of $5892. The complete inventory of such utensils in a college 
kitchen for 130 students numbers 169 items with 622 separate articles. 
Both include scrubbing brushes, brooms, pails, and various cleaning 
apparatus. A complete kitchen equipment adapted to 500 guests 
would cost not less than $10,000. 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[February 



Organization required for 200 guests and 65 employees. 
A. Kitchen organization. 



EMFLOTEES. 



WAGES BT MONTH. 




Chef 

First assistant cook 

Second assistant cook 

Pastry cook 

Pastry assistant 

Pastry helper 

Vegetable cook (also cereals, cocoa, salads) . 

Vegetable helper 

Pot washer 

Dish washer, for machine 

One dish wiper 

One dish wiper 

General assistant 

Cleaner 

Kitchen housekeeper 

Total 



B. Dining room organization. 



Head waitress 

Two tray boys 

Twenty-five to thirty waitresses . 



$35 
14-18 each 
14-18 each 



Comparative Study of Institutions. 

A blank of 70 questions was mailed to about 130 institutions of dif- 
ferent types and sizes. Twenty-nine have been tabulated under the 
four groups of colleges, lunch rooms, hospitals and state institutions, 
and summer resorts. While much more data is desirable, some inter- 
esting results are indicated, only a few of which can be touched here. 

Sizes of kitchens. — The smallest is only 16 by 20 feet, or 320 square 
feet where the cooking for 225 students is done. The largest is 50 
by 55 feet, giving 2750 square feet for 450 guests, the average for all 
groups being 2273 square feet for cooking purposes alone. Adding 
the pastry, serving rooms, and all space given, they rim from 1380 to 
3936 square feet. All have live steam and machinery equipment 
averaging from one-half to two-thirds the amount fotmd necessary 



1912] Food Administration 5 

in hotel types. In colleges the numbers fed from one kitchen vary 
from 100 to 740. In some state institutions where over 2000 are fed, 
they are broken into several groups with separate kitchens and some 
have one large kitchen with a number of smaller dining rooms. 

Cooks. — In one college two women and one man (baker) do the 
cooking for 240 students, but the average in all the colleges given is 
I cook to 67 students. In lunch rooms there is i to 84, in state 
hospitals I to 200, in summer hotels i to 40 guests. Counting all 
kitchen helpers, in colleges there is i to 25, lunch rooms i to 38. In 
state institutions, patients and inmates do the work without wages; 
in resorts there is i to 20 guests. Counting care of rooms and all em- 
ployees, the colleges without student labor average i servant to 10 
students but in the summer resorts there is i servant to i| guests. 
City hotels usually average one employee to each 2 or 2^ guests, to 
which must be added the care of grounds, livery, boats, golf, and var- 
ious other summer expenses for resorts. 

Wages of cooks. — College chefs receive from $21 a month for a 
woman to $85 for a man, the average being $54. Lunch rooms range 
from $35 to $52, the average being $45; state institutions from $50 
to $93.75, average $67.25; resorts from $75 to $200, average $125. 

Wages of waitresses. — These vary from $14 to S21 a month. In 
some places all receive a uniform price, in others there is promotion 
for length of service and efficiency. 

Uniforms. — These are almost universal among men cooks and their 
laundry is done free by the institution. Most waitresses provide their 
own and are responsible for their laundry but in a few cases the wash- 
ing is done free and they may either iron themselves or pay half 
price to have it done. 

Interchange of labor. — Between departments this is only occasional. 
In colleges one waitress serves from 8 to 40 students, in resorts from 
6 to 8. One large hotel has for years made a success in dividing its 
75 waitresses into three groups, 25 doing all dining room and side work, 
25 doing laundry work, and 25 chamber work, the latter positions being 
most sought as yielding tips and fees from two sets of guests. 

Dining room equipment and cost. — In the private Club, mission oak 
furniture, tables with polished tops, chairs, side stands, and trays cost 
$810 for 200 people. China (Enghsh Maddocks) costs $710, silver 
$480, glass $250, and linen $830, including table cloths, napkins, felt 
pads, center pieces and stand covers. This gives a total of $3080 or 
$15.40 per guest. Where poHshed oak tables are used with doilies 



6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

only, no cloths, there is a difference of $1.50 per guest, or $300 invest- 
ment. 

The complete inventory of a well equipped college for 130 students 
gave $16.50 per capita. They use a more expensive silver and china 
(Greenwood) but have less expensive linen, changing twice a week 
instead of daily. The two equipments for the same number of people 
come to $2002 for the Club and $2145 for the college, the latter using 
soup tureens and silver ladles additional. These figures do not cover 
window shades, draperies, fire place fittings, plants, or ornaments. 
A fair average for table furnishings alone, of good grade, is $16 per 
capita. 

Servants' dining room equipment. — In the Club this costs $4.75 each 
and $5.45 in the college. 

Table linen. — The private Club, changing once daily, allows 3 
cloths to a table and 4 napkins to a guest at $4.50 a dozen. With a 
maximum of 868 guests in August, the average is about 600 for loo 
days, including the 4 club houses. The difference between fresh nap- 
kins every meal and one daily, imder these conditions, has been trans- 
lated into dollars as $2572. 

Laundry charges for flat work are variously estimated from 50 cents 
per 100 for small napkins alone with seven to ten cents each for table 
cloths, to from $1.50 to $2 per 100 for both together. With summer 
use only and a good grade of Unen, about \ disappears each year. 
Some city hotels running all the year have standing orders for complete 
new equipment annually, but much depends on the per capita allow- 
ance and the kind of mangle work done. This machine is well named, 
but though ruinous to linen hotel men claim that it is cheaper to re- 
place each year than to pay for hand work. 

Seating capacity of dining rooms. — In very large rooms with long, 
narrow tables seating as high as 22 in institutions, 12 square feet per 
person will answer. In college dining halls, averaging 14 at table, 
14 square feet is the average. One lunch room gives 16 square feet, 
but the resorts require 18 as a minimimi. With round tables seating 
4, 6, and 8, the smallest which can be used with comfort is 3 feet six 
inches in diameter, while 4 feet is much better, with 4 feet 6 inches for 
6 persons and 5 feet diameter for 8. This is the largest number one 
waitress can serve well with a varied menu. Where dining space 
for 200 is divided into 4 separate rooms, with fire places, broken lines 
and many small tables, 20 square feet per capita is desirable but 18 
will answer where tables are fitted to the spaces to the best advantage. 



(- 1 



Roon 



1912] Food Administration 7 

Raw food per capita cost. — In reckoning per capitas, figures are al- 
most meaningless unless methods are known. The usual hotel rule 
is to divide the total food cost by the number of paying guests, regard- 
less of the number of employees. Unless separate kitchens, cooks, 
and food accounts are kept, it is very difficult to separate them. In 
the private Club, those employed as chambermaids, livery, office, golf, 
etc., are charged to their own departments and only those directly en- 
gaged in food work are counted in food costs. Figures so far as given 
show college tables running from 6^ to 31 cents a day per student. 
Some state institutions are limited to from 6| to 7^ cents a day for 
inmates but with a more liberal menu for physicians, nurses, and the 
general staff average 16 cents a day. One college giving very careful 
data spends 6.39 cents a meal for food, or 19.17 cents a day, and 6 
cents for wages. A family boarding house averages 21 cents a day for 
food. The Club averages $1.02 with large August numbers, and $1.30 
early and late with fewer guests. 

Wages per capita. — These vary from 6 to 12 cents per day in colleges. 
Both food and wages are much lower in Canada than in the states. 
In the resorts, wages paid food employees in actual money are 30.3 
cents per capita and including liv-ing expenses, which should always b« 
reckoned, 56.4 cents. With smaller numbers 37 cents in money and 
69 cents adding board and rooms is given. 

Fixed charges per capita. — These, including rent, fuel, light, water, 
and supplies are 54 and 60 cents each at different seasons. 

Waste. — This is noted as being specially heavy in kitchens and serv- 
ing rooms, banquets and special dinners, trays sent to sick rooms, 
limching of waitresses, surgical supplies in hospitals, in laundries, sew- 
ing rooms, and in the breakage and nicking of dishes. Inspection, 
superxision, and careful watchfulness control to a limited extent. 

Best working units for efficiency. — There is no agreement as to the 
units of best size in feeding large numbers, or at what point it is best 
to introduce men cooks and steam with machinery equipment. Some 
prefer women as chefs with strong boys to lift. From 100 to 200 
seems economically the worst point. Under 100 the heavy expense 
of steam equipment is hardly justified and not till over 200 will it pay 
over fixed charges. In pastry work women have a dainty touch which 
is seldom attained by men. Suggestions vary all the way from 50 to 
400 as the best imit and this whole question invites careful study and 
investigation. 

Scientific management. — As yet little has been done with shop 



8 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

methods to increase efficiency in institutions or even in home house- 
keeping. An estimate of the diflference in time between two methods 
of opening beds at night in the Club showed that 104 working days, of 
8 hours each, were worse than wasted each season by the one which 
required that spreads be taken off and folded in creases at night, 
clothing folded over as in hospitals, and spread replaced in the morning, 
causing more wear and more frequent laundry; yet the difference was 
only one minute on each bed. 

One strong impression made by this comparative study is the need 
of standards, not only in methods of keeping accounts that they may 
be intelligible, but in careful estimates of size, equipment, organiza- 
tion, buying of all kinds of supplies, and the many details and directions 
for work. Factories where this is done lead the world in successful 
results. In certain watches and automobiles any part of any machine 
can be replaced accurately in the shortest possible time. Things fit; 
there is no waste in adjusting parts. It is the secret of library effi- 
ciency today. While some things may vary with local conditions, 
there is no question that standardizing is the largest factor towards 
efficiency in all so-called scientific management. In the individual 
home the few minutes additional time required to do things by one 
method rather than another is scarcely noticed, yet the sum of all 
these moments counts. 

The starthng figures revealed by fixed charges and the growing lux- 
ury and expense of hotel living make this study of large numbers im- 
perative. If the inmates of the state hospital where 2200 are fed were 
cared for as in the summer resorts, it would cost the state $1,312,905 
annually for the food side alone, ($819,060 raw food, $60,225 service, 
$433,620 fixed charges). 

Not only in plans, the best materials, the construction and the 
equipment of institutions is there great need of more definite informa- 
tion, but in lists of supplies, all kinds of systemized blanks, methods of 
accounting, graphic charts, duties and directions for employees, ratios, 
proportions, and menu making, is there a wide field for investigation 
and original research. 

Discussion of Mrs. Dewey's paper: 

The human machine has not received the attention it should. It 
is difficult to measure the efficiency or inefficiency of per capita-costs 
in institutions since it depends on whether they are places of punish- 



1912] The Lunch Room in Business 9 

ment or places to reform and to improve the inmates. They must be 
translated into terms of flesh and blood, or character. We need a 
measure for human eflficiency, as horse-power in machinery; what Mrs. 
Richards, in an address to students, emphazised: "Wanted: a unit of 
man power." 

Efl&ciency in the administration of institution kitchens depends largely 
on the machinery equipment, while the expense is so enormous as to be 
prohibitive in many cases. The thorough equipment of the kitchen 
for 200 with steam fittings and power, together with small utensils 
needed for a moderate menu such as the Club offers, would require 
not less than $6000. The contract price for a hospital kitchen equip- 
ment for 400, calling for the best modern labor-sa\dng devices, steel 
tables, plate glass, and the best fittings was recently quoted as $20,000. 

The point at which it pays to introduce live steam, machinery, and 
men cooks, is yet to be proved. Under 100 it seems impracticable. 
With 200 the fixed charges are very heavy, while with 500 or more the 
individual touch or home flavor of cooking is hopelessly lost except 
for a la carte, cooked to order specialties. 



THE LUNCHROOM IN BUSINESS. 

Gertrude Sanborn. 
Nasmiih Company, Toronto, Canada. 

The topic which I have taken is the lunch room in business and I will 
discuss it from the standpoint of experience, particularly that gained 
in managing such an enterprise for a large baking firm in Toronto. 
This is a product of city conditions, since it is only when a town has 
grown beyond the limits within which business people can go home for 
Ivmch, that it needs down-town limch rooms. 

The city lunch room is a place in the business district which serves 
a simple meal for business men and women who have not too much 
time or cash to spend on it; yet who want quick service and good, 
plain food at a reasonable price in a clean, well-ventilated place. The 
lunch room may or may not serve breakfast or supper, but the lunch 
or noon meal is its chief business. It is in quite a different class from 
the tea room, the scale of prices being much lower, and there is little 
competition between them, although there is more or less inter- 
change of customers. 



lo The Journal of Home Economics [February 

There is a large group of lunch rooms which are not subject to 
ordinary business conditions or are so to only a limited extent, such 
as the Y. W. C. A. and Y. M. C. A. lunch rooms, which especially in 
the West and South are doing a very good work. They are expected 
to pay their own expenses at least, and in many cases do make enough 
profit to contribute to the support of other departments, but in case 
they fail to make expenses they may be carried along for the sake of 
the good they do. In quite another class is the lunch room which 
is entirely self supporting on the same basis as any other business, 
as a machine shop or candy factory, and which must pay its own 
expenses and provide some surplus for the future if it is to continue 
to exist. If the commercial lunch room is trying to serve the pubhc 
in the best possible way, not with that as a purpose but as a business 
policy, it is always in close competition with lunch rooms of lower 
standard. Since the average customer cares more about a difference 
of five cents in the daily cost of his lunch than he does about ideals 
and theories, the lunch room which is not troubled with these has a 
certain superficial advantage. 

The need in public eating places everywhere is for good, plain, 
home-like cooking such as people can enjoy who have to be careful 
about what they eat; nourishing soups, not too highly seasoned, 
fresh vegetables and fruits carefully prepared, a variety of salads, 
simple made-up dishes and desserts. The person who wants to make 
up a lunch without meat, not because of being vegetarian in theory, 
but for the sake of a balanced diet, or merely as a matter of taste, 
finds that there are few places to get it. Such simple home-like 
articles as scalloped fish, spinach and egg salad, meat and potato 
cakes, creamed eggs, do not belong to the usual chef's menu, but the 
pubHc likes them if they are good. In the kitchen of the ordinary 
public lunch room there is not enough help to prepare things carefully, 
and the chef has not as high a standard as the housekeeper at home. 
Often he can do more expensive and elaborate things better, but he is 
not interested in doing as well as they can be done the plain, simple 
things for which there is need in the lunch room. The result is that 
low quality, cheaper materials and methods, and high seasoning are 
substituted for economy. 

A short time ago I was in one of our kitchens where we had just 
started to train the women to use recipes. The cook who was making 
bread and butter pudding was greasing the individual moulds. 1 
looked at the fat she was using and found it was only fit for soap grease. 



1912] The Lunch Room in Business 11 

When I told her that we would not use that, and asked her if she 
would thmk the grease was fit to use if she were making a pudding at 
home, she said that indeed she would not. It has been so long an 
accepted thing that in a public kitchen the proper thing to do is to 
pass off a poor thing for a good one whenever you can bluff the public 
into taking it, that it will take some time to correct this idea. It 
needs more conscience on the part of the people who do the cooking, 
more training for the management, and more discrimination on the 
part of the public as to what is genuinely good. 

When competition is to be made on the ground of quahty, there is 
need for every kind of economy, and economy means scientific manage- 
ment. Since every price on the lunch room menu is based on the cost 
of the order, the reckoning of costs in the food is of the greatest import- 
ance. The size and weight of the order needs to be regulated, and the 
cost reckoned again every time the market price of the material 
changes. Whenever it is possible to make up in individual orders it 
is a help toward uniformity in the cost and size of the order. The 
matter of recipes and formulas is an important one in the lunch room, 
for the reason that the public is more or less regular in its demands 
and expects any one item to be the same whenever it comes on the 
menu. If to-day macaroni and cheese has tomato in it and next 
week there is a new cook who makes it up plain, if the rice pudding 
to-day is made up with a custard and next time has raisins in it, a regu- 
lar customer will stop ordering it because he does not know what he is 
going to get. If he is paj^ing fifteen cents for a certain article he wants 
that very article every time. The average business man or woman 
reckons on paying fifteen, twenty, or thirty cents for a lunch and ever}-- 
thing must be of good value and always alike. This accounts for the 
popularity of places which display their orders either on the cafeteria 
plan or on a counter system. 

In reckoning costs, the intelligent co-operation of the people who 
do the cooking is required; and herein is the chief difference between 
the old style lunch room and the new. In the former, the kitchen is 
in the hands of a chef or head cook who makes the menu and orders, 
and plans what to do with the left-overs. He is chiefly responsible 
for the food costs and the other cooks look to him as head. The 
obvious disadvantage of this is that it gives a very important position 
to a person who is often unreliable, and leaves a very weak kitchen 
when he goes. 

In the organization which I have found more satisfactory for most 



12 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

lunch rooms, the food is in charge of a woman, either trained or ex- 
perienced. She is head of the department if the lunch room is large 
enough to have separate departments, or in a small lunch room is 
manager as well. She plans the menus and orders, tells the cooks 
what to do, and teaches them when necessary; but the cooking is 
done by different cooks, each of whom is responsible for her own 
work to the food director. This organization is more expensive in 
help, but makes up by what it saves in material. 

This plan makes the kitchen less weak when anyone stays out, 
makes it possible to use formulas and to keep costs uniform, and places 
the strength of organization in the system instead of in any one person. 
The workers nearly all have to be trained, beginning with teaching 
them how to measure with a cup and table spoon; and a good deal of 
the training will be wasted by their leaving. They have to be con- 
stantly looked after because they are likely to do foolish things without 
knowing it, as last week when a new girl was making cottage pudding. 
When the sample, baked on suspicion, came out it was quite flat and 
solid. It then appeared that she had used cream of tartar instead of 
baking powder; the responsible head had to be called on to reckon how 
to make up the other amounts in proportion to the cream of tartar, 
and finally brought it out right. The untrained cook is helpless in 
an emergency like this, because she does not know enough theory to 
correct a mistake, and l^as no experience to fall back on. She there- 
fore has to rely entirely on her recipes and on the head of the depart" 
ment. 

The recipes have to be made up in different quantities and if a 
quantity is required which is not on the formula, the head of the de- 
partment must make it up. I have seldom found a cook who could 
multiply or divide a formula and keep it in proportion all through; 
and they do not want the responsibility of it. 

The process of changing a kitchen which has been in charge of a 
chef to an organization of several women cooks using recipes, is a 
most interesting one, and for the time being, exciting. For a woman 
who has been working as cook's helper with no responsibility but to do 
what she was told, it is a great event to be allowed to make steamed fig 
pudding for a hundred people, and by simply following the recipe and 
directions have it come out just as good as if the chef made it. The 
women take an active pride and interest in their work when they are 
transformed from cook's helpers into cooks, which makes the experi- 
ment well worth trying. 



1912] The Lunch Room in Business 13 

The lunch room plan is so simple that it lends itself easily to any 
system of working out cost percentages, but I have found that most 
practical managers do not make as much use of figures as they could. 
Even in a small limch room where there is regular book-keeping done, 
the facts are so few and so simple that the manager can get very helpful 
results by a Uttle figuring, but unless she understands how to work 
out the cost percentages she will not be able to control them. When 
the question comes up: If the cost of an order of tomato soup is 
two cents what should be the price of the order? — the whole system of 
cost percentages is involved. It is hard for the inexperienced person 
to see that every five cents worth of food which is brought into the 
place must pay its share of the wage and rent and fuel; and that 
unless the cost is kept in the right proportion to price on every order, 
there is nothing that can make it come out right. 

The three most important items of cost in the lunch room are food, 
wages, and general expense, and while these vary with different sys- 
tems of serving and different sections of the country, it is possible in 
each case to arrive at a standard with which results can be compared. 
It might be supposed that any business would have some system of 
working out its costs, but I find many small lunch rooms which have 
none. I have in mind a tea room which had been open about six 
months when I was talking with the manager and asked her what 
kind of a cost system they had. She did not know what any of their 
costs were, and they let the bank do their book-keeping. Neither of 
the two managers had drawn any salary, but they had paid off a part 
of the money which they had borrowed to equip the place, and she 
thought they were doing well. I think they were too, but it was 
partly a matter of luck and if they had not done well they would not 
know why. 

In most cases a full report of cost percentages can well be made at 
the end of every month or quarter. For a shorter period of time, if 
wages are paid weekly the wage percentage can be reckoned on the 
receipts of the week and this sub-divided into the departments of 
cleaning, ser\-ing, dining room, and kitchen to see where the variation 
comes from the weekly pay roll. If the percentages are reckoned 
only at the end of the month, it is too late then to have any effect on 
them, but if they are taken weekly, even when the figures are only 
approximate they can be better controlled. When there are several 
branches or departments in which conditions are similar, a sub- 
division of food material into its large items, such as meat, fish, butter, 



14 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

eggs, or canned goods, can be made and a normal percentage found for 
each. In four branches of one business where we made a comparison, 
the averages for the meat item were 6, 7, 9, and 10; the higher average 
of the last two being accounted for by a higher average check of one 
cent. The average check runs so regularly the same that a variation 
of one cent in the daily average makes a considerable difference in 
costs. 

In one lunch room where I took charge, the percentage of material 
was high, about ten per cent above the normal average which I had 
known in similar lunch rooms; the wage percentage was low; and the 
place was not paying its expenses. In the effort to economize, the 
wages had been reduced at the expense of quality in food and service, 
with the result that the place was run down. To correct this it was 
necessary to raise the wage percentage (but not the wages) above the 
normal in order to make the food and quality of service an attraction. 
When this was done the food percentage was reduced and the receipts 
of the place increased so that it paid expenses. The total of the wage 
and food percentages was then the same as when the food percentage 
was too high and the wage percentage too low, but the increased 
receipts made a reduction in the percentage of general expense (this 
item being comparatively a fixed amount) so that it left a small 
margin of profit. It is a common weakness of the woman who is a 
good practical manager that she uses up her energy in doing the day's 
work, and does not realize that only by taking time to find out the 
value of it and analyze the weak spots can she control the results. 

In comparing different parts of the coimtry where I have been in 
lunch room work (in Boston, San Antonio, Texas, and Toronto) there 
are some interesting points of difference. Compared with Boston, the 
conditions in San Antonio and Toronto are alike in that wages are 
lower, hours longer, and help inclined to slower speed. While in 
Boston the help is chiefly Irish, in Toronto the workers are either 
Scotch or English who have lately come over, often from gentlemen's 
service, and they are very easy to handle. The better positions are 
held by Canadians who may have come as waitresses and been pro- 
moted to other positions such as that of cashier or branch manager. 
The general tendency is to prefer easy hours and fair pay rather than 
the more strenuous hfe; they are on the whole more contented, 
have less push, and are less eager for chances to get ahead than in 
the United States. Waitresses often come into lunch room work 
from private family service by preference, although considering all 



igi2] The Lunch Room in Business 15 

expenses it pays them much less. The comparatively easy schedule 
of hours, with social independence and freedom of time outside of 
stated hours, probably accounts for this. In Toronto, where the lunch 
rooms serve three meals in the day, serving breakfast at 7 and supper 
until 7:30, the hours are so arranged that they have every second, 
afternoon oflf. This is worth a great deal from the standpoint of health 
and makes the work attractive. 

In Toronto the influence of EngUsh cooking on the menu is very 
noticeable. Suet is much used in pastries; steamed fruit roUes, 
dumplings, and puddings made of suet, such dishes as deep fruit 
pies, marmalade roly, chicken and ham pie, steak and kidney pudding, 
are common on the menu. The Canadians Uke their cereal and cus- 
tard puddings less rich than is the case in the United States; cream of 
tapioca and bread and butter pudding are made with less eggs and 
sugar. They take very large orders of porridge served in a soup plate, 
more tea and less coffee, more white bread and less wholewheat, and 
a great variety of buns, small pastries, and shortbreads. On the whole 
the diet includes more fats and less starches than for a similar group 
of people in New England. The relation between diet and tem- 
perament suggests that this may have something to do with the 
comparative lack of nervous prostration in Canada. 

In reference to the question as to the place to be filled by trained 
women in the food business and manufactories, my experience has been 
to this effect, that women with training are without any question worth 
more than women who undertake the work without the knowledge 
thus gained. 

Discussion of Miss Sanborn's paper: 

In the discussion of Miss Sanborn's paper, which followed, Miss 
Arnold of Cornell University emphasized the need of trained intelli- 
gence in approaching the problem involved in feeding persons liv-ing 
on small incomes. In this connection, she made a brief report of a 
recent experiment at Cornell University in providing a balanced ra- 
tion on a per capita expenditure of approximately eighteen to twenty 
cents per meal. The cafeteria system of service was used in this 
experiment and one of the most encouraging results was the interest 
shown by the students in the scientific side of the work. One man 
maintained a satisfactory degree of physical efficiency on an expendi- 
ture of from twelve to fifteen cents per meal. Miss Arnold indicated 
that a balanced ration at these prices is made possible only by using 



i6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

meat substitutes, and that the largest problem to be met lies in finding 
sufficient variety in such substitutes. She added further that this 
experiment was conducted on a business basis and showed a satis- 
factory profit. 

CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS IN INSTITUTIONS. 

Dr. E. Porter Felt. 
State Entomologist, Albany, N. Y. 

Nature abhors a vacuum — be it neglected opportunity or even ces- 
sation from the "eternal vigilance" necessary to liberty, which in this 
instance stands for comparative freedom from insect pests. This is 
not mere pleasantry, it represents one of the fundamentals in the con- 
trol of insects. The unused open well may be a mosquito breeder, 
yet water drawn daily therefrom in a bucket may render it innocuous 
so far as the production of these pests is concerned. The deserted city 
home may be a midsummer paradise for fleas; occupied, there is httle 
opportunity for the pests to multiply. The rug in a living room may 
be exempt from injury, while the carpet in the parlor, opened only 
Sundays and on family feast or mourning days, may be ravaged by 
both clothes moths and carpet beetles. Numerous cracks and crevices 
or their absence in a dwelKng are important factors in determining 
the prevalence of such pests as cockroaches, croton bugs, slides or 
silver fish, and even that small, brown, flattened, malodorous creature 
occasionally foimd in sleeping apartments. The point we would 
emphasize is that apparently insignificant factors are in reality vital, 
if insects are to be controlled. It frequently occurs that comparatively 
inexpensive modifications in methods may exert a marked influence 
on the development of insects. 

We can hardly do better than to adopt a rough classification for the 
insects to be discussed and treat them under three heads; namely, 
fabric pests, food pests, and 'disease carriers, especially as measures 
adapted to the control of one species are frequently valuable in check- 
ing the depredations of associated forms. 

The fabric pests in this country are represented by three clothes 
moths, known as the case-making clothes moth, the webbing or 
southern clothes moth, and the tapestry moth. The first named is 
the more common in New York State, and may be easily recognized 
in its destructive stage by the cylindrical case dragged around by the 



1912] Control of Insect Pests in Institutions 17 

small caterpillars as they move from place to place. The southern 
clothes moth dififers from the preceding in that the caterpillar does 
not construct a case but lines its runways with fine silk. It is the more 
abundant and injurious pest in the latitude of Washington and feed,s 
on a variety of animal substances, such as woolens, hair, feathers, and 
fur. The tapestry moth is rare in this country, considerably larger 
than either of the preceding, and displays a marked preference for 
heavier fabrics, such as carpets and horse blankets. 

The carpet beetles are represented by two species — the Buffalo car- 
pet beetle and the black carpet beetle. The destructive grubs of these 
two pests are readily distinguished, since that of the Buffalo carpet 
beetle is short, stout, and shaggy-haired, while the grub of the black 
carpet beetle is slender, round, and tapering to a tail of long hairs. 
The beetles are equally distinct. The Buffalo carpet beetle is stout, 
oval, less than one-eighth of an inch long and with black and white or 
yellowish white and red mottled wing covers, the red markings forming 
an irregular line with three lateral projections on each side down the 
middle of the back. The black carpet beetle is more slender, about 
three-sixteenths of an inch long, and of a uniform black or brownish 
color. Both of these beetles may be found about houses in late winter 
or early spring and are frequently brought into dwellings on flowers 
the latter part of May or early in June 

The destructive yoimg of the clothes moths, and the carpet beetles 
as well, thrive best in undisturbed situations or, to be specific, in gar- 
ments which are allowed to hang for weeks unmolested, in carpets 
rarely swept, or in other fabrics under similar conditions. The sub- 
stitution of the frequently removed and easily cleaned rugs for carpets, 
is an important step in preventing injury. Carpets laid on tight floors 
are much less liable to injury than where numerous cracks afford 
secure retreats in time of danger. Tarred paper under a carpet 
has been frequently advised as a preventive and is certainly a serious 
barrier to the insects taking advantage of cracks and crevices in the 
floor. 

It follows from the above that all clothes presses should be thor- 
oughly cleaned from time to time, especially where these pests are 
known to be abundant. The garments should be removed, aired, *\vox- 
oughly brushed, and care taken to destroy any larvae which may not have 
been dislodged by this treatment. It is a very poor plan to have in the 
attic or some unused part of the house, miscellaneous woolens or other 
materials in which these pests can breed unrestricted, as such places 



i8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

are likely to serve as centers for the infestation of more valuable 
articles. Spraying with benzine or naphtha two or three times during 
warm weather is recommended for the purpose of preventing injur)'' 
to cloth-covered furniture, cloth-lined carriages, and similar articles 
in storage or unused for extended periods. Valuable furs, etc., are 
frequently deposited with storage companies, some of which make a 
practice of keeping the temperature at about 40° Fahrenheit. This 
is sufficiently low so that insects, even if present, will remain dor- 
mant and therefore harmless. Woolens and furs may be stored in 
tight pasteboard boxes with the covers sealed firmly with strips of 
gummed paper. This is thoroughly effective, provided the articles 
are free from the pests before being placed in such a box and the sealing 
is absolutely tight. Recent experiments have shown that insects of 
this class can not endure, for any length of time, a temperature above 
120° Fahrenheit. This might be taken advantage of in some cases to 
free fabrics from infestation prior to storage. It would not be neces- 
sary to maintain the above named temperature for more than twenty 
minutes, provided that this was the minimum. 

The silver fish, bristle tail, or fish moth, sometimes known as the 
slide, thrives best in places where there is comparatively little disturb- 
ance, and is therefore rarely numerous in dwellings ha\dng few crevices 
and no store room where articles are allowed to remain undisturbed 
for months or even years at a time. Ordinarily dusting the haunts 
of this insect with fresh pyrethrum powder, followed by thorough 
cleaning, is sufficient to prevent material injury. It is stated that this 
pest can be controlled by slipping into its haunts pieces of paper 
liberally treated with a thick, boiled, starchy, preferably nitrogenous 
paste poisoned with arsenic. Extreme care should characterize the 
employment of such poisons about the house. 

The next group of insects comprises a number of diverse forms, 
noteworthy largely on account of their depredations upon various 
food products. Ants of various species may be ranked as the most 
persistent and annoying under certain conditions at least. The 
little red ant, only about one-sixteenth of an inch long, is particularly 
troublesome, since its small size enables it to enter almost any recep- 
tacle not hermetically sealed. This Uttle pest is also very prolific 
and occasionally literally overruns buildings to the serious discomfort 
of the inhabitants. The small, black ant may also be abundant in 
houses and occasionally the large, black ant or carpenter ant is exceed- 



1912] Control of Insect Pests in Institutions 19 

ingly numerous. This latter insect establishes itself in the timbers 
and has been known to cause serious injury to the dwelling itself. 

The ants all live in colonies and the most obvious method of check- 
ing the trouble is to search for their nests and destroy the insects. 
This can be accomplished only by ascertaining the origin of the pests 
and is frequently impossible. It is certainly good pohcy to destroy 
ant nests in the vicinity of the house and in the lawn. This can be 
done in several ways. The insects may be destroyed at once by the 
use of carbon bisulfid. Make a hole several inches deep with a broom 
handle and put therein about one ovmce of carbon bisulfid and cover 
quickly with a little dirt. In the case of a large nest several holes should 
be made a foot or a foot and a half apart and each charged with the 
insecticide. Another method is to scoop out a portion of the soil and 
1511 the cavity with a solution of cyanide of potassiimi, one oimce to a 
gallon of water. This soaks into the soil, liberates deadly fumes and 
destroys the insects. Another probably equally effective method is the 
sprinkling of the surface of the nest with fine particles of potassium cya- 
nide. This material, it should be remembered, is a most dangerous 
poison and every precaution should be taken to avoid disastrous results. 

Ants may also be destroyed by the use of a very weak solution of 
arsenic and syrup. This has been tried on the Pacific coast with 
very satisfactory results. A poisoning syrup consisting of sugar or 
other cheap sweetening and containing between 0.25 and 0.125 per 
cent of sodium arsenite may be used. This deadly bait might well 
be prepared by a druggist. The most convenient way of using the 
poison is to saturate pieces of sponge with the syrup and place them in 
a large jar with a perforated cover. Ordinary pint fruit jars having 
the covers perforated with nail holes are perhaps as convenient as any 
receptacle. The baited jars should be placed in the vicinity of the 
nests and so located that they will not be filled with water and at the 
same time be easy of access to the ants. The insects will take the 
poison readily, carry it to the nests, and the colony eventually be 
exterminated through the destruction of the young. A jar prepared 
as directed above should be serviceable for three weeks, and some half 
dozen ought to suflice for an ordinary house and lot. 

Fumigation may also be resorted to. This wall be discussed later, 
as it is of value in controlling a number of household pests. 

The urban dweller finds cockroaches and croton bugs among the 
most persistent of the food pests. This is also very apt to be true 



20 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

of hotels and institutions remote from the city, because the large quanti- 
ties of food stuffs handled materially increase the chances of one or 
both of these pests being introduced. These disgusting insects feed 
upon a variety of vegetable and animal matter, and on account of 
their partiality for water pipes and their vicinity they have frequently 
been termed water bugs. It is impossible to keep a building moderately 
free from these pests if the insects are allowed to multiply unchecked 
in adjoining structures. This is most emphatically true of flats 
under different managements in the same building, and applies with 
equal force to any attempts to keep the insects in subjection in one 
portion of the building, when in another part there may be abundant 
food and attractive quarters. The first step in a successful campaign 
against these unsavory pests should be to eliminate, so far as possible, 
the available food supply and to reduce to a minimum shelters such 
as cracks and crevices. Badly infested dwellings or portions of 
dwellings, if moderately tight, might well be thoroughly fumigated at 
the outset and this supplemented by the persistent use of some 
roach poison, preferably one not dangerous to domestic animals or 
man. The Australians have found a dry mixture of one part of plaster 
paris and three or four parts of flour placed near accessible moisture 
a most effective method of destroying these insects, though the hu- 
manity of the procedure may be open to question. Recent experi- 
ments by the writer have shown that these insects, though usually 
found in warm places, can not survive a temperature of 120° if main- 
tained for some twenty to thirty minutes. Under certain conditions 
this may be a most effective method of clearing portions of a building 
of these pests. 

The larder beetle, a rather stout, dark-brown insect with the base 
of the wing covers mostly yellowish, is yg inches long and may be 
rather common about houses in May and June. This species breeds 
by preference on animal matter, such as ham, bacon, various meats, 
etc. The proper care of these materials, including the adequate pro- 
tection of those suitable for food, is the most satisfactory method of 
controlling this species. 

Stored cheeses are sometimes affected by the cheese skippers, 
white, cylindrical maggots easily recognized by their peculiar, jump- 
ing powers. Cheese and ham, both liable to injury, should be stored 
in dark places, and the small, black flies excluded by the use of a fine 
mesh, twenty-four-to-the-inch being satisfactory. 

There are a number of other pests of minor importance, such as the 



1912] Control of Insect Pests in Institutions 21 

bean and pea weevils with their close restriction to the developing 
or ripening beans and peas. The occurrence of either of these wee\dls 
in numbers usually means a nearby infestation, frequently a bag of 
beans or peas lying unnoticed upon some high shelf. The legion of 
cereal products is subject to attack by a variety of insects, such as the 
saw-toothed grain beetle, the two flour beetles, and two flour moths. 
The saw-toothed grain beetle, only about one-tenth of an inch long and 
easily recognized by its reddish brown, flattened shape, and serrate 
margins of the thorax, is perhaps the most common of these pests, 
though the somewhat larger and stouter flour beetles are frequently 
found. All of these insects develop from eggs, which latter may be 
deposited in the food itself or in some nearby crevice. Broken pack- 
ages are very Uable to infestation, especially if kept for any length of 
time in mills, stores, or store rooms where laxity prevails and these 
httle pests are allowed to become abundant. Prevention of injury 
must depend in large measure upon rigid cleanliness, especially the 
exercise of care to prevent accumulation of waste cereal products in 
nearby crevices or corners. Products stored in bulk and infested 
should be fumigated, preferably with carbon bisulfid, using this at 
the rate of about 5 lbs. to 1,000 cubic feet of space. 

The last group, the disease carriers, is by far the most important, 
though the insects included in this class attract notice largely for 
some other reason than the part they may play in the dissemination 
of disease. We will proceed to discuss several species, making no 
attempt to indicate the relative importance of the various forms. 

The most disagreeable in this group and the one usually avoided in 
polite conversation is the ordinary bedbug. It requires no descrip- 
tion and fortunate is the individual who has not had at least a limited 
personal experience with the pest. It may not be so generally known 
that an allied species occurs in swallows' nests and occasionally invades 
adjacent living rooms to the consternation of the housewife. Bedbugs 
are nocturnal in habit. The oval, white eggs are deposited in cracks, 
the yellowish white, nearly transparent young hatching therefrom in 
a week or ten days. About eleven weeks are required to attain 
maturity, though the duration of this period is probably greatly 
modified by temperature and the food available. It is perhaps un- 
necessary to add that cracks and crevices, loose wall paper, and the 
old wooden bedsteads afford ideal hiding places for this disgusting 
pest. The modern, tight construction of both floors and walls and 
the use of iron or brass bedsteads reduce the shelters for this species to 



2 2 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

a minimum and greatly facilitate its control. Extreme vigilance is 
necessary if one would obtain the upper hand in old buildings. Cracks 
and crevices should be stopped so far as possible and the joints of 
the old-fashioned bedstead treated liberally with benzine, kerosene, 
similar oils, or even hot water. Corrosive sublimate may be employed 
but it should be used with great caution, since it is a deadly poison. 
Fumigation with sulfur, using two pounds to each looo cubic feet of 
space and continuing the treatment for twenty-four hours if possible, 
is advised where the infestation is general. Similar treatment with 
hydrocyanic acid gas is probably more efi&cient. Modern institutions, 
though very liable to infestation, should be able to keep this pest under 
control by an intelligent application of the principles outlined above. 
We would for just a moment caU attention to the fact that a severe 
dermatitis may follow sleeping upon a new straw mattress, pro\dded 
the straw has been infested by an insect such as the joint worm. 
There have been a nvmiber of such cases. The trouble is due to a pre- 
daceous mite which normally preys upon the insects in the afifected 
straw, but under certain conditions may turn its attention to man. 
The eruptions may vary in size from that of a split pea to that of a 
penny and are round, oval, or irregular in shape. They may occur 
on various parts of the body and are accompanied by more or less 
itching. The ob\dous remedy is to avoid sleeping on mattresses 
containing new straw. 

Fleas occasionally become abundant in a dwelling. The oSending 
species is usually the cat or dog flea. This insect deposits its very 
minute, white eggs in the vicinity of the sleeping places of its hosts. 
The slender, active larvae feed upon organic matter in cracks and crev- 
ices, and may become abimdant in dusty cellars or rooms undisturbed 
for several weeks, as for example, when a house is closed for the 
summer vacation. Fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas, if thorough, 
will destroy the pests. A much simpler method is to sprinkle the floor 
of an averaged sized room with about 5 lbs. of flake napthalene and 
keep the apartment closed for twenty-four hours. The acrid fumes 
destroy the fleas without injury to the contents of the room. 

Mosquitoes deserve a word, though under ordinary conditions there 
should be practically none in institutions. It is Vv^ell knowTi that 
these insects must have standing water in the near vicinity or they 
can not become abundant. The only exceptions are several salt 
marsh species which may be carried perhaps forty miles by gentle 
breezes. The occurrence of any number of mosquitoes in an institu- 



19 1 2] Control of Insect Pests in Institutions 23 

tion should lead to the careful examination of the premises for uncov- 
ered rain barrels, open shallow wells, defective eaves-troughs, nearby 
dumps with pails, tins, and old cans holding water, or temporary 
excavations in which water might stand for a week or more. One 
can hardly think that an institution of any size would be located so 
near a swamp or swampy area as to be materially affected by mos- 
quitoes breeding in such locations. The obvaous remedy is to ascer- 
tain the breeding places and either eliminate them or prevent the access 
of insects by the use of fine screens or tight covers. It may occasion- 
ally be necessary to resort to judicious drainage or the systematic 
appUcation of oil during the summer months. Mosquitoes occurring 
in a building during the winter are very likely to be malarial mos- 
quitoes. These forms display a marked preference for grassy pools 
or recent excavations, and an attempt to eliminate their breeding 
places should be governed by this fact. The few usually wintering 
in a house may be readily destroyed by hand. It might be well to 
mention that the presence of malarial mosquitoes and Itahans is 
very apt to result in an outbreak of malaria, since the residents of 
southern Italy frequently have latent germs of this disease in their 
systems. It is then comparatively simple for mosquitoes to transfer 
the infection from the immime ItaUan to the susceptible American. 

Light brown flies, only about one-eighth of an inch long, may be 
occasionally found about houses. These are the common fruit flies or 
pomace flics, so named because of their breeding by millions in apple 
pomace. The occurrence of these insects in a building usually indicates 
the presence of accessible overripe or canned fruits. These flies are 
easily destroyed with fresh pyrethrum powder. 

The most important insect in homes and in institutions is with very 
little question the common house-fly, sometimes known as the typhoid 
fly. It is extremely annoying and also carries, under certain condi- 
tions, germs of typhoid fever and may, in the same manner, disseminate 
other diseases of the digestive system, including cholera and certain 
other serious infections. It is hardly necessary to present a bill of 
particulars at the present time. We are concerned principally in 
methods of controlling the fly. Here the institution has an obvious 
advantage over the private home, in that it usually has control of a 
somewhat extensive area. FHes, like other insects, must have material 
in which to breed or they can not become abundant. Experience has 
shown that ordinarily flies do not travel a great distance and, in most 
instances, probably breed within 300 to 500 feet of the places where 



24 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

they are extremely niimerous. Fly larvae are usually most abundant 
in horse manure, though they may occur to a lunited extent in cow 
manure, and have been found in miscellaneous collections of filth, 
especially decaying vegetable matter. The flies deposit their eggs 
upon such materials, the maggots hatch in less than twenty -four 
hours, and, under favorable conditions, complete their growth in five 
to seven days. They remain in a resting or pupal stage for about an 
equal period, at the end of which the parent fly emerges. The life 
cycle or round of Hfe is therefore completed in from ten to fourteen 
days. This insect multiplies most readily in moist organic matter, 
preferably in b'ght places. One of the most fly-beridden situations we 
have chanced across in recent years was an open barn cellar containing 
a mass of sloppy manure in a hog pen. Such conditions should never 
be allowed to exist. Manure can and should be stored in a fly-proof 
receptacle. This may be a tightly covered pit outside the stable or 
a cellar so dark or so tight that flies will not or cannot enter. Both 
are relatively easy to construct with our modern concrete walls, matched 
lumber and cheap building paper. Even should eggs be deposited in 
the manure prior to its being placed in any such receptacle, it would be 
comparatively easy to provide at the farther end of a cellar or vault, 
a small, tightly screened window which would serve as a fly trap. Any 
flies issuing would collect at such a window and comparatively few 
escape to the stable. It is entirely practical to make similar provision 
for the care of other fly-breeding materials, such as table scraps, decay- 
ing fruit, etc. 

It is not always feasible to adopt such measures. We know that 
it requires at least ten days before the fly can complete its hfe cycle, 
consequently the removal at approximately five day intervals of all 
manure and other fly-breeding material will prevent the local increase 
of this insect. This is entirely practical in many places and in accord 
with the best agricultural procedure. Manure spread upon a field 
dries out so rapidly that the insects are unable to complete their 
transformations. The persistence of flies in localities where this 
method prevails means that certain breeding places have been over- 
looked and, as a rule, the evil can be corrected without great expense. 
There is no reason why stables and barns should be located so near 
institutions or dwellings as to cause serious trouble on account of flies. 

It will be found in practice that some flies are very apt to persist 
in a neighborhood even after the adoption of rigid precautions. 
They should be kept out of dwellings so far as possible by the use of 



1912] Control of Insect Pests in Institutions 25 

window and door screens supplemented by the employment of tangle- 
foot or other sticky fly paper, or better yet, a sweetened five to eight 
per cent solution of commercial formaldehyde, which may also be used 
at the rate of a tablespoonful to a cupful (one half pint) of equal parts of 
milk and water. In either case place the solution in a shallow saucer 
or plate, putting a piece of bread in the center to supply a convenient 
lighting and feeding place for the flies. These formaldehyde prepara- 
tions should be renewed daily. They might well be used in stables 
and other places attractive to flies as well as in the house. Dr. C. F. 
Hodge of Worcester, Mass., has recommended the use of garbage 
pails with fly traps attached for the purpose of attracting flies and 
capturing them at the outset. This may be advisable under some 
conditions, though we believe that an understanding of fly require- 
ments will make it practical to keep an institution and its surround- 
ings so cleanly, from an entomological standpoint, as to most effectu- 
ally discourage this persistent associate of man. 

A word as to fumigation. The presence of resistant pests, such as 
bedbugs and fleas in a building with numerous cracks and crevices, 
may justify thorough fumigation with such a deadly poison as 
hydrocyanic acid gas. This treatment can hardly be effective 
unless the outer walls are at least moderately tight, and should be 
preceded by the careful sealing of all orifices likely to permit the 
escape of gas. The materials used, namely, sulfuric acid and cya- 
nide of potassium are among our most deadly poisons, and the author 
has therefore been in the habit of advising the employment of a 
drug clerk or some equally well informed party to take charge of 
this work. We have published detailed directions for fumigation, 
and these are available for those specially interested. 

At the outset we called attention to certain conditions which 
might result in the abundance of insects. We believe that archi- 
tects and landscape gardeners should bear in mind the fact that 
apparently minor changes in the construction and arrangement of 
buildings may have a material influence upon the prevalence of 
insect pests. Hospitals are now being constructed according to 
rigid sanitary rules directed mainly against the existence of disease 
germs. Such construction, generally speaking, is equally well 
adapted to the prevention of troubles from insect pests. We hope 
to see the day when the architect and builder will plan and con- 
struct dwellings with practically no cracks or crevices for the 
shelter of insects and, furthermore, by means of tight walls and 



26 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

close-fitting doors, isolate kitchens and storerooms from other parts 
of the structure. The ordinary type of construction allows many 
hollow walls with runways which enable rats, cockroaches, other 
insects, and vermin to distribute themselves freely throughout the 
building, and immensely decreases the efficiency of fumigation. 
A little attention to these details, accompanied by an equally satis- 
factory arrangement for the disposal of garbage, the location of 
outbuildings, barns, and the care of the wastes therefrom, will do 
much toward solving the control of insects in dwellings and insti- 
tutions. 

SOME GENERAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO THE 

PURCHASING AND HANDLING OF SUPPLIES 

FOR PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. 

Henry C. Wright. 

Russell Sage Foundation. 

When a steward or purchasing agent of an institution can go 
personally into the market and select goods it is relatively unim- 
portant that he have in hand closely drawn specifications for such 
goods. When, however, he must order through the mail, or by 
means of competitive bids, it becomes imperative that his descrip- 
tion of the goods he desires be clear, full, and accurate. Since the 
supplies for most institutions must be ordered by the latter method 
it is important that the supplies be properly specified and described. 

The most essential elements of a specification may be briefly 
described as follows: It should correspond to commercial practice, 
first as to grading, second, as to size and character of package. Com- 
mercial bodies, such as Mercantile Exchanges, Boards of Trade, 
Merchants' Associations, etc., have standardized grades. These 
grades are recognized in all trading circles wherever such associa- 
tions deal and goods come on the market and are bought and sold 
under those descriptions. As illustration, the New York Mercan- 
tile Exchange has graded butter into the following classes: ' 'cream- 
ery," "process," and "factory." Each of these classes is sub- 
divided into "specials," "extras," "firsts," "seconds," and "thirds," 
with a full description of each class and grade. All butter in the 
New York market is bought and sold according to these classes 
and grades. It is highly important, therefore, for a buyer to fully 
understand these descriptive terms and to specify his butter accord- 



1912] Handling of Supplies for Public Institutions 27 

ingly. The butter in each section of the country is graded according 
to the rulings of some association, and the buyer in that section 
should be acquainted with the local rulings. 

Most of the goods used by institutions are thus graded, and the 
purchasing agent should be familiar with the terms used. Failure 
to acquaint himself with these commercial terms may result in 
loss. For instance, one of the western states specified that the 
flour for its institutions should be made from "hard wheat" but 
did not further specify whether it should be winter or spring wheat. 
It happens that hard wheat may be winter wheat in Kansas or spring 
wheat in the Northwest. The two wheats are not of equal value, 
and consequently a contractor bidding upon the spring hard wheat 
might be at a disadvantage if an opposing contractor bid upon the 
winter wheat. The Lunacy Commission in New York State con- 
tracts for eggs under the description of "first packed," to be de- 
livered throughout a six months' period during the winter. This 
classification applies only to eggs packed ready for refrigeration 
and not to eggs that have been refrigerated. As a result, contractors 
could not be sure as to the grade of eggs on which they were to bid. 
The Charities Department of New York City at one time specified 
"special" butter. There is so little of this high grade of butter on 
the market that it would be practically impossible to fill a large 
contract for it. It is needless to say the department did not re- 
ceive "special" butter, although it contracted for it. 

Again it is highly important that the packages specified be of 
a commercial size. Unless care be taken to insure this, it may 
necessitate special packing in order to fill a contract, which means 
extra expense. Both the United States navy and army require 
special packages, but for them they pay an additional price. There 
is a surprising difference in the size of barrels used in packing 
various materials. This may be illustrated by the following com- 
mercial sizes of barrels: Wheat flour, 196 pounds; corn meal, 
200 pounds; cornstarch, 260 pounds; rolled oats, 180 pounds; 
split peas, 210 pounds; salt, 280 pounds and 320 pounds; sal-soda, 
300 pounds; washing soda, 280 pounds; etc. Specifications 
should designate these net weights so that no contractor would 
be required to do any repacking in order to comply with the terms 
of his contract. 

Again the terms used in the specifications should be clear and 
concise so as to permit of no double or doubtful meaning. The 



28 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

specifications of the Lunacy Commission in New York State form- 
erly provided for "extra" butter, grading certain points according 
to the grading of the Mercantile Exchange of New York City. 
The Exchange does not use points in grading, so the terms of the 
specification were confusing. 

If the lowest market prices are to be obtained through com- 
petition by honest merchants, it is of primary importance that the 
specifications be in the language of the trade and in words so clear 
that they will not admit of a double interpretation. 

Again the specifications should conform to the kind of test which 
is to be used in passing upon deliveries. It is of little use to specify 
flour in terms of "gluten," "ash," "color," "absorption," "fer- 
mentation period," "loaves per barrel," etc., unless the deliveries 
are to be tested to determine the amount of these elements. Little 
would be gained by stipulating chocolate in terms of "ash," "theo- 
bromin," "caffein," "starch," "fat," etc., unless there were sub- 
sequently an attempt to find out whether the deliveries actually 
contained the specified elements and quantities. Though there are 
objections to naming trade brands, yet it is advisable to do so if the 
institution buying is not prepared to make practical or chemical 
tests. Personally, I believe it advisable for each state to provide 
for testing chemically all of its supplies which can be readily tested 
by that means. In such a laboratory, also, expert judgment 
could be expressed on various products that can not advantageously 
be tested chemically, such as cereals, tea, coffee, dried fruits, etc. 
Until such provision is made by a state, it will be necessary for 
each institution to draw its specifications in terms that will readily 
lend themselves to practical tests by the steward. 

The terms of the contract are important. Provision should be 
made not only for a rejection of the foods in case of false delivery 
with the privilege of buying in the open market pending an adjust- 
ment, but also for an annulment of the contract in case of repeated 
and persistent false deliveries. The New York State institutions 
provided for a rejection of defective foods, but did not provide for a 
cancelling of the contract in case of a continuance of such deliveries. 
As a result, they had a very annoying experience with a butter 
contractor. 

It is inadvisable to contract by schedule rather than by items. 
By schedule is meant a list of articles grouped together and the total 
bid to be considered for the group. Such a grouping tempts a 



19 1 2] Eandling of Supplies for Public Institutions 29 

contractor to bid low on articles the whole quantity of which are 
unlikely to be used, and high upon such as are likely to be taken 
in the full quantities specified. 

Much consideration should be given also to the season of the, 
year in which contracts for different supplies should be placed. If 
an institution has suitable storage place it is advantageous to con- 
tract for a year's supply of those goods which come upon the market 
but once a year, such as canned fruit and vegetables, dried peas 
and beans, dried fruits, cereals, rice, etc. It is advisable to contract 
for six months' supply of eggs in April and butter in June, use of 
which would begin in October. This is feasible either when an 
institution has cold storage space or can hire it. All supplies that 
come on the market periodically can be contracted for, month by 
month, more advantageously than by a long-term period. In New 
York State one department has contracted for flour in six months' 
periods beginning October and April, while another department has 
contracted each month. The short-term or open market buying 
has proved as economical as the long-term. At the same time it 
does not require the contractor to speculate upon the market, and 
reduces his temptation to deliver faulty goods in case the market 
goes up during his contract. Iowa contracts for butter on the 
basis of the market price of butter every Monday. The contractor 
indicates in his bid the amount above or below the market at which 
he ^vill furnish the butter. As a result of this method, practically 
all the butter delivered is up to the specifications. In so far as it 
is practicable for institutions to buy in the open market, I believe 
it is advisable so to do. 

When goods are bought upon samples, it is important that such 
samples be properly preserved. Many articles of food deteriorate 
if exposed to the air, such as tea, coffee, cereals, dried fruits. Such 
samples should be kept in air-tight glass cans. All samples should 
be kept in the storerooms to facilitate comparisons with incoming 
shipments. 

The method of receiving goods should be well guarded. Care 
should be taken not only to count all articles after comparison has 
been made with the sample, but a certain proportion of original 
packages should be weighed. It is customary for institutions to 
assume that a 2 5 -pound box of prunes contains 25 pounds, that a 
60-pound tub of lard really has in it 60 pounds, that a 196-pound 
barrel of flour contains that full amount. That such an assumption 



30 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

is not always well founded has been demonstrated by the Fiscal 
Supervisor in New York. He gave instructions to weigh all original 
packages. As a result, quite a proportion were found to contain 
less than the amount billed, and in the aggregate, for all the insti- 
tutions, the saving thus secured was material. In case of faulty 
deliveries some institutions adopt the policy of deducting a certain 
amount from the bill. In the long run, I believe it is much more 
satisfactory to reject such a shipment and demand a new consign- 
ment which will meet the specifications. In many instances, it is 
to the advantage of a contractor to ship inferior goods though a 
deduction be made from his contract price. When this policy is 
adopted it may be found that a contractor will repeatedly send 
such defective goods. 

Some institutions fail to take sufficient care in the storage of 
supplies. In many cases, this may be due to a lack of storage 
space. Except during the winter months cereals and dried fruits 
should be kept in cooling rooms to prevent the development of 
worms. Smoked meat should be kept in a temperature between 
40° and 50°. A temperature suitable for fresh meat will seriously 
mold smoked meats. Brine barrels should never be kept in a room 
with fresh or smoked meats. It is desirable to provide a separate 
room for pickled meats. Owing to a failure on the part of some 
institutions to observe these generally recognized provisions, quite a 
large quantity of spoiled meat was discovered by a United States 
inspector in the institutions of New York and Indiana. 

Deliveries from the storeroom should be guarded with great 
care. Two forms of requisitions are almost equally acceptable. 
One is a printed form on single sheets with blanks for the signature 
of the one making the requisition, the approving officer, and also 
the receiving officer. The other form is a plain blank-book, a copy 
of which is furnished to each department. In this is written the 
articles desired. The book then makes the rounds to the superin- 
tendent, storekeeper, back to the department for receipt, thence to 
the steward for record. Both of these forms are practicable. 
Whichever is used, however, care should be taken by the superin- 
tendent to so cross out the blank space on the requisition that no 
articles can be added subsequent to his approval. This precaution 
with regard to the last item can be exercised in several ways, by 
signing immediately below, by checking it, by drawing a mark 



IQI2] Handling of Supplies for Public Institutions 31 

across the vacant space below it, or by numbering the lines and 
indicating the number of the last item at the time of approval. 

It is highly desirable to require that no additional items shall be 
placed on the original requisition regardless of proper approval. 
Records can be made much clearer and more certain if new requi- 
sitions be made out for any articles omitted from the original 
order. Care also should be taken that the person receiving the 
supplies sign a receipt on which each article is checked and on 
which also is the date of receipt. These precautions are necesssary, 
not only to make a complete record which can be checked up by 
any inspector, but also for the purpose of making it diflficult for 
any subordinate to take supplies. Even with these precautions, 
supplies can be taken, but it will require the cooperation of at 
least two, or possibly three, parties. If, however, the records are 
checked, one against another, even such a conspiracy can be de- 
tected. 

In so far as possible, no supplies should be delivered in quantities 
larger than needed for immediate use. When this is not observed, 
it inevitably creates subsidiary storerooms, over which there is no 
accounting and from which supplies can be taken with little likeli- 
hood of detection. It is considerably more trouble to requisition 
for daily use and break original packages and weigh out the needed 
quantities, but economy will be secured only by this method. If 
the kitchen has on hand a barrel of sugar, or the cleaning force a 
barrel of soap powder, they are quite likely to use it with less care 
than though they had in hand just the necessary amount for the day. 
I am familiar with one hospital that cut down the cost per year of 
absorbent gauze and bandages from about $4,200 to $1,800, by 
changing the form of requisitioning and delivery. 

It seems highly desirable to keep no records in the storeroom, 
but to transfer such work to the front oflSce. This method is more 
expensive, since some store-keepers have spare time, which can be 
devoted to keeping books. When books are kept by the store- 
keeper, however, it is always possible to force a balance at the time 
of making an inventory, and such forced balances are not infrequent. 
The system which seems to me best is to have orders for supplies 
made out in the steward's office in triplicate. From one of these 
copies the amoimt ordered is omitted. This copy is transmitted to 
the store-keeper, who uses it as a memorandum on which he enters 



32 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

the amount of supplies received on that particular order. The 
form of the memorandum enables him to identify the shipment. 
This memorandum is then sent by him to the steward's oflSce, 
where it is checked with the order and the invoice. The invoice 
should not go to the store-keeper, nor should the store-keeper re- 
tain copies of the requisition. Thus, when he takes his inventory, 
he has no records with which to check it. This checking is to be 
done by the steward, and if pronounced * 'overs " or ' 'shorts " appear, 
explanation is warranted on the part of the store-keeper. Inevi- 
tably, of course, some overs and shorts will be noted. It is im- 
possible to weigh out a large bulk into many small portions and 
have the two weights exactly correspond. Then again, some sup- 
plies shrink while being held and others take on additional weight 
by absorption of moisture. The proportions of all of these factors, 
however, are familiar to the steward and superintendent and are 
given proper consideration. 

The kinds and proportions of food to serve are large problems, 
on which there is not sufficient knowledge at the present time. It 
is easy, however, to determine the relative kinds and proportions 
actually being used in different institutions of the same class and being 
operated under about the same physical and climatic conditions. 
For instance, by comparing the amount of food furnished by the 
institutions in New York, Indiana, and Iowa, it was noted that 
wide differences in amounts existed. The state prison at Michigan 
City, Indiana, furnished per capita per day, no grams of protein, 
while a like institution at Fort Madison served 132 grams. The 
Institution for the Feeble-Minded at Fort Wayne, Indiana, furnished 
about 78 grams of protein per capita per day, while a similar insti- 
tution at Glenwood, Iowa, used 106 grams. Like differences were 
noted not only as between States, but also within the States. The 
differences at once prompt the question whether some of the insti- 
tutions are feeding too little or others too much or are possibly 
wasting an undue amount by careless handling. I do not here 
presume to pass judgment upon the question. The differences at 
least lead to this conclusion, that it is highly important for officers 
of every institution to make food comparisons with other insti- 
tutions in an attempt to determine whether or not their own man- 
agement is economical. Much information is available on relative 
food values, and with this data in hand, study should be made as to 
possible substitution of cheaper for dearer foods as the market varies. 



1912] Handling of Supplies for Public Institutions 33 

Generally speaking, insufl5cient attention has been given to the 
problem of waste. Considerable study has been made of sewage 
and garbage disposal, but comparatively Kttle systematic inquiry 
has been made into the means of reducing the amount of waste, 
which is disposed of through these channels. The wide disparity 
in the amounts of food used in similar institutions led me to suggest 
an experiment in one of New York State's institutions to determine to 
what extent kitchen and dining-room waste could be regulated and 
reduced. This experiment has been in operation now for nearly 
one year at King's Park State Hospital. The results are very 
gratifying and instructive. This institution is one of the largest 
in the country, ha\ang about 3500 insane inmates. Their system 
may be briefly described as follows: 

Every Saturday, the superintendent of each dining-room sends 
to the chef an actual count of the number dining in his respective 
dining-room. Not only is the total number given, but it is divided 
into classes as follows: Patients, patient workers, and employees. 
The amount to be issued, beginning the following Wednesday, is 
based upon this count. It does not need to be figured, but is taken 
from a basic dietary table which has been worked out by the steward. 
This table is made out for each dining-room. It indicates the 
amount that should be served to numbers increasing by the factor 
of ten or twenty, according to the size of the dining-room. For 
instance, the table for a room having approximately fifty would 
indicate the amount to be served to 50, 60, 70, 80, etc. A room 
ser\'ing 1000 would vary as follows: 1000, 1020, 1040, etc. The 
method of using the table is as follows: After each meal the un- 
eaten food is separated into "usable" and "waste" food. The 
usable food is such as has not been served on the plates; the waste 
has been served. Each of these classes is subdivided into the kinds 
of food, such as bread, meat, potatoes, potato skins, cereals, vege- 
tables, etc., according to the character of the meal. All of these 
are weighed separately in the kitchen and an accurate record kept. 
This record is before the chef when he makes his next issue, and a 
judgment as to how much should be issued is based upon the amount 
of waste of any particular article at previous meals. For instance, 
if there had been an undue waste in meat and the count for next 
week indicated 58 in the dining-room, he would issue on the basis 
of 50. If, however, it had been very small, and in his judgment 
too small, his issue would be on the basis of 60, the next higher 



34 The Jour7ial of Home Economics [February 

basic figure. Thus the basic figure next higher or next lower than 
the actual count is taken according to the amount of waste pre- 
viously recorded. 

I recently spent a day at the institution observing how the 
separating of waste was actually performed. I was surprised at the 
smoothness with which it worked. Each one or two tables is pre- 
sided over by an attendant. This attendant, with the help of a 
patient, separates the waste into the required classifications. A 
large part of this work is done by patients. When this reaches the 
service room, the superintendent of the dining-room looks it all 
over and corrects any mistakes that have been made, after which 
it is weighed. Receptacles of uniform weight are provided for this 
purpose to reduce the labor of computation. The system not only 
works smoothly, but the employees undertake it without com- 
plaint. 

The results of its operation have been pronounced. Its operation 
revealed the fact that the per capita amount of food served and eaten 
in the different dining-rooms varied widely. When this was dis- 
covered a redistribution was made, resulting in a much better 
feeding of the working patients and a reduction in the amount 
served to employees, which amount formerly had been wasted. 
Thus far there has been no attempt to cut down the total amount 
of food served. The excesses of one department have been trans- 
ferred to other departments, where less waste was noted. It is 
highly probable, however, that after the system has been in operation 
longer the aggregate amounts of certain foods will be reduced. 
The waste indicates that such a reduction would be safe. 

With such a system, carefully operated, thefts of food are easily 
detected. Under the looser system customarily in use, it is diffi- 
cult to discover local minor pilfering. The system, in operation, 
requires no additional employees, and has in it marked possibilities. 

Careful institutions determine scientifically the exact quantities 
of their coal, how much water is evaporated by each loo pounds, 
the fluctuations of the steam pressure, the amount of ashes, etc. 
Why do they neglect to note with equal care the consumption of food 
by the inmates? It is much more important, and would result 
not only in marked saving, but also in an accurate knowledge of 
the acceptability of each article of food and its effect upon the 
inmates, 

A system worked out with equal or greater care should be applied 



1912] Handling of Supplies for Public Institutions 35 

to all supplies used by the institutions. The saving would amply 
repay for the labor expended. 

My examination of the state institutions leads me to urge a much 
more careful system of records and a much closer determination of 
unit costs, both as to material and labor. Every state needs to do 
more than it is at present doing for its sick and dependent. Unless 
capital and operating costs can be reduced, expansion of the work 
will be exceedingly slow. If the taxpayers become con\anced that 
their money is as carefully, yes, more carefully, expended than in 
private business, funds for enlargement of the work will be, I feel 
sure, readily granted. 

Discussion following Professor Wright's paper: 

Dr. Shanahan. Comparison between different institutions is diffi- 
cult because of different organizations and methods. Craig Colony 
for Epileptics has a large number of small kitchens in cottages averag- 
ing twenty to forty patients and the waste is much greater than with 
one central kitchen. 

Mr. Wright. This is a common belief. Service on the plates in a 
congregate kitchen is automatic, appetites are not the same, there is 
no attempt to gage this with large numbers while it can be done in 
small kitchens. We do not yet know in which there is the most waste. 

Dr. Bernstein. We have principally the congregate plan at Rome 
State Custodial Asylum and care for 1200 people, 600 in one group, 
400 in another, with over 200 employees and two farm plants. Things 
are eaten up cleaner in a small group and individuality is catered to. 
About 200 seems the best unit, one kitchen to prepare the bulk of 
the food and serve in six dining rooms for 1 200 people, rather than to 
have sLx separate complete kitchens. 

Mr. Dewey. What is the difference in cost between small and large 
dining rooms? If you have several thousand to feed, is it better to 
have one kitchen or divide into many? Opinions vary. What is the 
unit of greatest efficiency and economy in feeding people? Where is 
it better to divide? 

Mr. Wright. This whole question of an economical unit has not 
yet been studied. How far can steam be carried economically from 
a central plant? It is impossible for any one institution to solve these 
problems. Waste is not yet studied. Take two dining rooms with the 
same careful steward and having about the same variety. In one the 



36 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

bread is cut several hours ahead, in the other cut fresh, and there is 
great difference in the amount of waste in dried bread. The same with 
meats and other food which stands any length of time. 

Professor Cole. The Massachusetts General Hospital inspects and 
regulates waste in garbage. The cans are all numbered and the con- 
tents are poured out in the presence of the housekeeper who makes a 
record of all substances in excess. The first year this was tried expenses 
were $5000 less than the previous year. The saving in silver recovered 
was also considerable. 

Mrs. Moran. The New England Kitchen cut off a part of its work 
which was not yielding a return, with good results. There is a large 
wage waste in feeding 2000 a day. In one lunch room many rolls 
were left. The size was decreased seven ounces to a dozen and waste 
decreased. An extra piece of butter was served with potatoes but 
after the rule was made to serve only one unless asked for, the butter 
waste was decreased from 13 to 4 pounds. Laundry loss was traced 
to the fact that receiving clerk did not know just what she should 
receive back. 

Food packages do not contain what they should. Some things 
shrink and should be allowed for. 

Can we not get the State Charities Aid Department or the Sage 
Foundation to investigate some of these subjects? 

It was voted that the Sage Foundation be asked to conduct an inves- 
tigation on the most economical unit for administration of institutions. 

A Member. An attempt was made to introduce into several insti- 
tutions a certain grade of flour supposed to contain more nutriment 
to the loaf. In one, the patients would not eat it, in another they 
liked it very much. Millers themselves differ greatly in their esti- 
mates of quality of flour. One may judge by the amount of bread 
wasted. 

Dr. Langworthy. There is very little difference in the chemistry 
and digestibility of flours. Some people like brown, some white flour. 
The color comes from coloring matter in the outer part of the grain. 
The miller finds by experience that white flour keeps better because 
it is the rejected part that spoils most easily. There is the same 
amount of nutriment in both kinds. In some flours there is more of 
wheat oil. A small drop of this oil is the most powerful laxative 
known. The difference is not due to coarseness of grinding. We 
are not in the dark in judging the quality of flour, as there are satis- 
factory tests. There is also a great mass of information in regard to 



igi2] Handling of Supplies for Public Institutions 37 

the deterioration of butter and flour that has been stored for any length 
of time. Animal and vegetable foods should be kept separate. 

There are available reports of dietary studies at a number of insti- 
tutions. At Bay View in Baltimore the patients are cared for very 
cheaply. Mrs. Abel is on the board of managers and has introduced 
as perfect a dietary as you can get for 7I cents a day. There are many 
old people and instead of ordinary stew they have meat ground into 
the stew, and bread good enough for any table. Their success is due 
to applied expert knowledge. We need both empirical and labora- 
tory knowledge. In every college the mass of material in govern- 
ment, state, and municipal documents, should be available and used 
in training courses. 

The discussion which followed led to the following suggestions: — 

That text books would be valuable for stewards' use. In baking 
bread the size of loaves is important. The commercial loaf is usually 
large, thick, and not sufficiently baked. A Home Economics loaf 
should be thin and crusty. 

Concerning waste, Lake Mohonk can feed a pig for every 2^ guests 
and at the end of the season get $2500 for its pigs. There is a grease- 
rendering plant requiring one man, a one horse team, 2 steam kettles 
and a cauldron for cleaning garbage cans. This plant clears $1000 a 
year. Waste should be separated, tea and coffee grounds especially, 
and inspected. Glass in waste does not help pigs. A piggery was 
mentioned having a smooth concrete floor 80 feet square; waste was 
dumped on it and the floor kept clean and sanitary, and $5000 a year 
was cleared. 

At the Hospital for the Insane at London, Ontario, the farms grow 
tons of small fruits and melons with most satisfactory^ results. The 
question was asked as to how many people are required to make it pay 
to put in a sewage disposal plant, but no answer was obtained. 

At the Rutland Sanitarium, in Massachusetts, the waste is largely' 
utilized. A neighboring hennery buys beef scraps at two or three cents 
a pound which are ground for the poultry. Grease is sold for $1.50 
a day and as the pigs are profitable there is practically no real waste. 

Printed forms for food supplies, used as a basis for bids, have worked 
very satisfactorily at Rutland, though contractors do not like them. 
For all except emergency orders which can not wait for bids, Uke drugs, 
they are desirable. The receiving end of an institution plant should 
be strong, as when manned by an expert butcher, or store keeper. 
All foods should be standardized on the bid basis. If goods are not 



38 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

satisfactory they must go back at expense of the sender. If wrong 
three times, do no more business with that firm. 

The Boston cut of beef, a five rib roast, is found most satisfactory. 
There is much difference of opinion in regard to the Boston and New 
York cuts of beef among institution workers. 

The New England Kitchen finds that a loin of 65-75 lbs. gives 
best satisfaction. A 70 pound loin gives a larger number of steaks. 
With beef, as with flour, there must be a standard for institutions. 
With flour it is better to give the analysis required rather than to 
advertise the makers by specifying a grade. The variety of results 
with bread are due largely to methods of handling the flour. In one 
institution, when the bread was ready to be baked it was put on a 
truck and rolled a long distance to the oven; the loaves, flattening and 
settling, were largely spoiled. 

A report was made by Miss Watson, MacDonald Institute, Guelph, 
Canada, on the work done by the Canadian Government in providing 
facilities for the testing of flour. A wheat and flour testing plant has 
been estabHshed at the Agricultural College, where milling and baking 
tests may be made. The problem is to secure the production of flour 
of even granulation and the determination of strength and quality of 
the wheat which is to be milled. By this testing machine, it may be 
determined whether the fault Hes in the flour or in the process of 
manipulation. A knowledge of chemical differences in flour is given by 
which some of the problems of the bread making processes are solved. 

Mr. Dewey pointed out the need for obtaining the accurate cost of 
the care of by-products in relation to waste. The making of soap, 
the raising of pigs, and the utilization of sewage as a fertilizer were 
discussed. 

Miss Florence D. Corbettof Whittier Hall, New York City, explained 
the methods employed for returning unsatisfactory shipments to the 
dealer at his expense. If too many errors in billing et cetera are made 
on the part of the dealer, thereby necessitating an unusual amount of 
clerical labor to the institution, a charge against the dealer is made 
and he is notified that if such conditions continue he will not be asked 
to bid upon other orders. It was suggested that a valuable piece of 
work could be done by the Association in considering carefully points 
of law on contracts for the benefit of the inexperienced. It was pointed 
out that state institutions would be able to help in this matter as their 
regulations in the making of contracts and the relations of the institu- 
tions to the dealer are subject to legal advice and carefully worked out. 



1912] Uniform Accounting for Institutions 39 

UNIFORM ACCOUNTING FOR INSTITUTIONS. 

William Morse Cole. 

Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University. 

I am supposed to be making a report as chairman of the com- 
mittee on uniform accounting, but as a matter of fact I am rather 
making a personal report of progress toward the formation of such 
a committee and toward the preparation of a tentative plan of 
institutional accounting to be passed upon by it. Since my talk 
here a year ago I have been able to give to this subject only tag- 
ends of time, mostly after midnight when a good day's work had 
already been accomplished, and in the way of the formation of a 
committee I have been able to get only the assurance of the willing- 
ness of others to serve with me in the preparation of a final plan 
which we hope to have ready to present to you a year hence. I am 
very happy to announce that Dr. F. A. Washburn, Jr., superin- 
tendent of the Massachusetts General Hospital, which, as doubtless 
many of you know, is a very large establishment particularly well 
conducted, and Miss Olive Davis, superintendent of halls of resi- 
dence at Wellesley College, will serve on this accounting committee. 

In order that the committee may have something definite to 
work upon in the preparation of a final report for uniform account- 
ing, I have attempted to carry my plan farther than I described to 
you a year ago. I think it will be worth while to outline the plan 
briefly in order that any discussion that it may stimulate may be 
helpful to the committee in its final work. 

I have been impressed often, and for a long time, by the fact 
that comparatively few corporations or other business organizations 
make a statement of their financial operations in a form intelligible 
to persons not familiar with the details of their work, and therefore 
I have attempted to formulate for institutions a type of balance sheet 
and of income sheet which shall give a survey of the whole situation 
in a brief statement. The balance sheet should make it possible to 
compare the present situation with that of a year ago, and should 
make that comparison easy through the medium of parallel columns. 
If the figures for the last year are placed at the left of such a sheet, 
with a column for increase and one for decrease immediately follow- 
ing, and then the present figures are given at the right of the titles 
of accounts or groups of accounts, we have as the most conspicuous 



40 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

figure on the sheet the present situation, but an easy correlation of 
the present figures with the old figures. 

The assets should be divided into several groups. The property 
of the institution should comprise the first group, and should be 
shown in more or less detail, at least in enough detail to indicate 
the different types of investment, such as sites and grounds, build- 
ings, furniture and fixtures, machinery and tools, etc., — the classifi- 
cation being based on the varying considerations which would 
apply in judging one or the other of these groups. The second 
group should include investments, which, in the case of many 
institutions, would comprise the endowment. The sum of these two 
general groups, that is, properties and investments, would consti- 
tute the capital assets (unless there were certain cash funds destined, 
perhaps, because of restrictions, for capital use). The second main 
group of assets would be the so-called current assets, comprising 
any accounts receivable, supplies on hand, current cash, and ac- 
crued or prepaid items. 

A similar division may well be made for the liabilities, so that the 
capital liabilities will be reported as capital stock, or proprietorship 
for charitable and other public institutions, special funds, bonds 
and mortgages payable, etc. The current liabilities are of the ordi- 
nary type, such as bills payable, accounts payable, and accrued 
items. 

The statement which is of most importance in giving a summary 
view of the transactions of an institution for any particular period 
is the income sheet, which I should divide according to circumstances 
into several separate schedules. The best illustration that I can 
give of this is possibly that for a hospital. It is obvious that 
wherever there are several sources of income and several kinds of 
expenditures, it is desirable to show how far any of the kinds of in- 
come are adequate to take care of the expenses connected with 
them. In a hospital, for example, the first fact we wish to know is 
how far the income from patients is adequate to pay expenses. If 
we represent all items connected with the care of patients in a sched- 
ule by themselves, which we may call the revenue account, the 
resulting surplus or deficit gives us in final form the desired figure. 
This surplus or deficit may be carried down to the next schedule 
which we may call the endowment income account. This ought to 
show us how far the income from the endowment of the institution 
is adequate to make up for a deficit in its direct revenue or will add 
to its surplus. 



1912] Uniform Accounting for Institutions 41 

There remain for most hospitals two other sources of income, the 
first of which comprises annual subscriptions from charitable 
organizations and individuals, and the second, legacies. It happens 
that subscriptions are likely to maintain a fairly steady level an<;i 
may with some degree of certainty be counted upon by the admin- 
trative officers to meet running expenses. Legacies, on the other 
hand, are extremely variable, and may run very high in seasons of 
an abnormal death rate among the well to do and very low even in 
extremely prosperous seasons which happen to be seasons of good 
health. For this reason it seems desirable to make a distinction 
between these two kinds of income, and therefore provide separate 
schedules for them. If we bring down the surplus or deficit from our 
second schedule into a third schedule, which we may call ' 'normal 
current income," we have a fiinal surplus or deficit resulting from 
what may be considered the normal transactions of the period under 
review. This figure in turn, when carried into the fourth schedule 
comprising legacies, will give us the final result for the year as 
affected not only by normal income and expense but by the transi- 
tory and unreliable matter of legacies. If any legacies have been 
received subject to the restrictions that they shall be used for capital 
purposes only, it is hardly feasible to consider them as of the same 
class with unrestricted legacies; but since most persons who are in- 
terested to watch contributions to an institution of this sort are not 
familiar with accounts and are therefore likely to expect to see even 
capital legacies placed with the income, it is desirable to place them 
in this part of the statement but designated separately. It might 
be well, therefore, to recognize that this fourth schedule is not 
strictly an income schedule nor yet a capital schedule, but combines 
all kinds of ultimate receipts, and distinguishes those for current use 
from those for capital use. On this schedule should be shown not 
only both sorts of legacies, but what portion of all legacies received 
has been set aside for capital use and what portion has been applied 
either to current running expenses or to the accumulation of a 
fund for future expenses. 

To these schedules may be appended details for purposes of com- 
parison — one institution with another or one year with another; 
but any one who has attempted to make comparisons for himself 
either within any institution or between institutions will recognize 
the importance of the summary statements even though details be 
not shown. 



42 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Before I explain to you any of the details of the processes by which 
I attempt to learn the costs of running the various departments of 
an institution, I am going to explain that the whole thing will sound 
very complicated, and to admit frankly that I expect you to look 
with a great deal of skepticism upon the desirability of doing so 
much accounting. It is very difficult for a person not familiar 
with bookkeeping processes to realize that a great deal of information 
may be recorded and correlated and preserved with very little 
labor — if only the bookkeeping system is adapted to this specific 
purpose. It is also true that many bookkeepers are not com- 
petent to devise systems which shall give a great mass of detail 
without an inordinate amount of time and manuscript. Possibly 
the best way I can indicate to you that not only is a great amount of 
detail possible but profitable is to tell you that at the Massachusetts 
General Hospital are kept only a little fewer than two hundred 
fifty separate accounts for foods consumed in the ordinary course 
of hospital work, and that somewhat more than two hundred 
fifty accounts are kept for the group of items called "medical and 
surgical supplies," I have never dared to suggest to persons 
interested in this kind of accounting more than fifty accounts for 
these two general groups together, because I know how easy it is 
to frighten anybody with masses of detail; but Dr. Washburn 
introduced a number of new accounts several years ago and found 
them so profitable that he proceeded to cut most of them up into 
many other subordinate accounts and so continued the process of 
cutting up, until today there is practically no item of consumption 
in either the food group or the supplies group which has not an 
account of its own. When I asked him how much of a clerical 
force is kept busy in recording these items, he remarked that one of 
the bookkeepers does it all in what otherwise might be odd moments, 
and that usually the figures for any month have been entered during 
the first half of the succeeding month without any crowding of the 
regular work. 

Of course adequate accounts cannot be kept without adequate 
bookkkeeping, and no one should think for a moment that a proper 
system of accounting can be introduced in any sort of institution 
with the addition of a little untrained labor. The person in charge 
of the accounts must know not only what are the common labor- 
saving devices of bookkeeping, but also what fundamental account- 
ing principles must be observed in drawing final conclusions from 



1912] Uniform Accounting for Institutions 43 

the records. Yet it is possible to devise a plan which can be carried 
out by persons not particularly skilled in the handling of accounts 
and get results for various institutions that make possible a really 
valuable comparison between them. 

We may now turn to the methods by which we hope to produce 
ultimate figures of cost. It may be well to begin at what is chronolog- 
ically the wrong end, and suggest what figures we are aiming at and 
then look back and see how they may be attained. I have devised 
as my ultimate aim a statement which I call ''final summary of 
institutional expenses." This shows not only the totals for various 
groups of expense, but the conversion of all those expenses into a 
cost per unit. 

Since one of the best types of institution that I can use for purpose 
of illustration is a hospital, let me give you some imaginary figures 
for the types of expenditure to be met there. Most expenses 
should be shown for the unit of the patient-day, but a distinction 
should be made between ward patients and private-room patients 
because the conditions of service are so widely dift'erent that the 
expenses are much higher in one than in the other. 

As I suggested to you last year, I am satisfied that it is absolutely 
essential for any adequate comparison of results that the figure of 
compensation for employees shall include not merely wages but 
everything else in the nature of compensation, such as board, 
lodging, and laundry. The amount of compensation per patient- 
day should appear on the final summary in all the groups of expense, 
such as administration, professional care of patients, living expenses, 
etc.; that is to say, we wish our administrative expenses to include 
all the expenses of administration, so that any cost of food, cooking, 
and service for the benefit of administrative employees shall not get 
into the cost of food, lodging and laundry for the patients. The 
same would be true for the group of expenses under the head of 
professional care of patients; so that in that group would be charged 
not only the wages of nurses, orderlies, etc., but their board, 
lodging, and laundry, and that when finally we come to our living 
expenses we shall have a figure which represents the living ex- 
penses of patients only. It is absurd that an institution having 
many servants and rather a scanty commissary should report as 
high a cost of food, of cooking, and of table service as an institution 
having few servants and a much better standard of living; and yet 
if we fail to distinguish between the board cost of employees and 



44 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

the board cost of patients, a large number of servants would raise 
the apparent figure of living expenses without in the least raising 
that portion which is due to food consumption by patients. In 
this final summary, the living expenses are divided into four items, 
namely, food supplies, cooking and service, housing (including 
housekeeping), and laundry. When, therefore, we have added to- 
gether the cost of administration, the cost of professional care of 
patients, and the cost of living expenses for patients only (all other 
living expenses being carried to the administrative group or the group 
of professional care of patients as indicated above), we have a final 
figure which is the cost per patient-day for the actual patients; 
and the details of food-cost, cost of cooking, cost of service, cost of 
heating, lighting, etc., are preserved along the line, so that we can 
make comparisons in groups or in details. 

There are of course many items of expenses which are not useful 
statistically on the basis of the patient-day. For example, ambu- 
lance service is the same for a person brought to the hospital for a 
two-days' stay as for one brought for a three-months' stay. Not 
usually are many more laboratory tests or examinations made for 
a patient who stays a month than for one who stays a fortnight. 
These various special items of expense, therefore, should be con- 
verted into unit costs for units which are determined solely by the 
nature of the service rendered. The unit for ambulance service, 
for example, is trips, for the dispensary is number of treatments, for 
the home nursing department is the number of visits. 

The result of all this is that we have a unit cost for all types of 
service rendered, divided not only on the basis of the kind of ser- 
ice rendered but also on the type of patient for whom it is rendered. 
Any figures less distinct, less specialized than these, seem to me not 
to serve the purposes which animate us in a plan of uniform ac- 
counts, for unless we have final unit costs, it is impossible to make 
a comparison between institutions working under varying conditions, 
such as a hospital where the nursing is done mostly by nurses in 
training without wages and hospitals employing only graduate 
nurses, or schools utilizing the services of scholars and schools 
employing only paid laborers who board outside and schools using 
only employees boarding on the premises. 

The obvious difficulty in the way of getting these final figures is 
to make distinctions, as we go along, between expenditure on account 
of employees and expenditure on account of the persons for whom the 



19 1 2] Uniform Accounting for Institutions 45 

institution is primarily maintained — as patients in a hospital, 
pupils in a school, guests in a hotel or club. In the first place, no 
supplies should be issued without a requisition upon the stores 
department, for otherwise there is no knowing what is their destina; 
tion. These requisitions accomplish the purpose, without much 
labor, for everything except foods; but in this respect, since in any 
large establishment several tables are likely to be maintained and 
many foods are common to them all, great care is necessary to see 
that each table is charged for its actual consumption. Yet I feel 
that I ought to remind you that a thing which is very complicated to 
explain is sometimes, when once understood, very simple to carry out, 
and I could keep the records for possibly many days in less time than 
it would take to explain the process for a part of one day. If a 
proper count is taken of heads, so that the figures show how many 
persons are taking their meals in the establishment under the various 
groups, the unit for each type of table becomes the day or the meal. 
If we divide all foods into three classes, (i) those which are common 
to all tables — such as butter, sugar, flour, milk, etc. — (2) those 
which are common to all tables for any particular meal — such as 
squash, potato, sauce, dessert — and (3) those which are peculiar 
to some tables for some meals — such as squab for private-room 
patients in a hospital and boiled beef for the employees — we have 
a means of following the distribution: For the total cost of all foods 
in class i (figured in totals at the end of the month) may be dis- 
tributed among all types of tables per capita; the total cost of all 
foods in group 2 must be figured for each meal but may then be 
distributed per capita, for being common to all tables for each meal 
it is chargeable against all equally; the cost of foods in group 3 must 
be figured for each meal, of course, and must be charged to the 
individual tables on the basis of the number of persons at those 
tables. To make these calculations and the distributions is not 
nearly so serious a task as at first sight appears; for obviously 
somebody must determine what is to be served at each table, how 
much raw material will be required to prepare that food, how many 
persons must be provided for, and must make a record of these 
facts for the use of the cooks. If this record is preserved, all the 
figures are at hand for the office to make a distribution of the food 
cost, and only a sm.all amount of calculation, applying the purchase 
price to the goods consumed, is necessary to give the desired figures. 
Since the time-books will show the number of employees in each 



46 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

department, it is a simple matter to determine for each class of 
table the amount which should be charged to that department for 
the board of those employees. Similarly, the cost of lodging for 
the various employees should be distributed to the departments 
responsible for them. Indeed, a general distribution of all housing 
costs throughout the institution should be made at least annually. 
To do this does not require inordinate labor. When once the floor 
space and cubic space of the rooms occupied by the various depart- 
ments and of the quarters used as lodgings by employees of the 
departments have been calculated, it is easy to determine what 
proportion of all the costs relating to housing should be charged 
to these departments. Certain items like cleaning should usually 
be distributed on the basis of floor space; heating, lighting, and 
building repairs should usually be distributed on the basis of cubic 
space; but in any particular case it is necessary to consider the 
circumstances of that institution before the space-cost distribution 
can be made satisfactorily. It would be unfair, for instance, to 
charge certain departments for light on the basis of cubic capacity 
if in those departments light is used only at rare intervals, or only 
for a desk situated in a corner. Practically all the house and property 
charges, including heating and lighting, insurance, taxes, rentals, 
care of grounds, etc., may be distributed on this space-cost plan; 
and when once the calculations have been made determining 
the percentage for each department, no further calculations need 
be made, except to apply the fixed percentage of the total cost, until 
some re-arrangement of housing has been made. The calculation 
of these figures, moreover, is not very laborious if only one takes 
advantage of such mechanical devices as the slide rule and comput- 
ing machines. 

One of the most difficult costs to distribute has proved to be that 
of laundry work. So far as I have been able to learn, no laundry 
anywhere knows the actual comparative cost of doing various 
kinds of laundering, but an investigation has been started and we 
hope soon it will enable us to determine for a large institution what 
ratio of the total cost should be applied in charging towels, napkins, 
table cloths, sheets, etc., to the various departments, and thus 
enable us to make a comparison of costs between various institutions 
for their various departments. It is easy enough, of course, to 
learn total laundry costs, but if these are properly distributable 
to the housekeeping department, the service or dining-room depart- 



1 9 1 2] Uniform A ccounting for Institutions 4 7 

ment, and the various other departments, for the laundry work done 
for their employees, it is important that we shall have some basis 
of distribution better than the number of pieces. 

It is obvious that if we charge to each department the boar^, 
lodging, and laundry of its employees, and credit the food depart- 
ments, the housing account, and the laundr>' account for those 
sums, the amount remaining as a charge to the food departments, 
the housing account, and the laundry account is the amount directly 
chargeable to the service of those for whom the institution is pri- 
marily maintained — whether patients, guests, students, or what 
not. This, of course, is the ultimate figure which every one is 
seeking in order that comparison may be possible between different 
institutions; for the method which I have so far suggested allows 
for all differences of conditions not inherent in the situation itself. 

The next elements which I have to suggest in the complete scheme 
are those about which there may be the widest difference of opinion. 
It is not customary in business to charge interest on equipment; 
but I am satisfied that many institutions are conducted at a loss, or 
at least with something less than the possible benefit, largely because 
there is no check in the accounting on extravagance by managers 
of departments. For illustration, I know of a hospital, whose 
trustees give the superintendent a very free hand, which has equip- 
ment of a very expensive sort far in excess of any probable need 
for some years to come. The superintendent takes pride in point- 
ing out the beautiful facilities and has reason to do so; but so long 
as this equipment is lying idle or is doing work at a slightly greater 
convenience than might be done by less expensive equipment, 
either the funds of the hospital itself are lying idle when they might 
be earning interest, or else the institution is raising funds from the 
community that might more profitably be spent elsewhere. The 
only check which can usually be applied against extravagance of 
this sort is an understanding that whoever for any department orders 
equipment will find his costs at the end of the year increased by 
interest on that equipment. This interest should be credited not 
as an operating earning, but as income from property. It is true 
also, of course, that allowance for interest is necessary not only as a 
check on extravagance by managers of departments, but also to 
enable us to make any comparison between institutions as a whole; 
for if we make no such allowance, an institution with very elaborate 
equipment will have naturally lower direct operating costs in the 



48 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

way of wages and miscellaneous expenses and will by so much appear 
to be better managed, when, as a matter of fact, it would probably 
exercise better economy to plod along with inferior equipment in 
spite of a slightly increased cost for labor and miscellaneous items. 

Unless, again, depreciation on equipment is taken into account, 
there is danger that our comparisons not only between different 
years and different managers within an institution, but also between 
different institutions, will be extremely misleading. Every one knows 
that in hard times managers skimp on renewals and repairs and in 
flush times try to make up the deficiencies. This undoubtedly is good 
policy, but it does rob Peter to pay Paul, and it does throw out 
of usefulness all comparisons between one institution which happens 
to have a flush year and another which happens to have a lean year. 
I should go so far as to say that depreciation should be allowed on 
every class of equipment, and that the amount on the separate 
classes should be kept distinct unless it chances to be very small. 

This means, of course, that something approaching an inventory 
must be taken at least annually. It is not necessary that every 
item should be listed and appraised, for often one can give a pretty 
accurate estimate of the percentage of value to cost in some room 
or department as a whole. In dormitories, for instance, it would 
be absurd to value each individual chair, but a glance at almost any 
room would suggest to a competent manager that 25 per cent of 
its cost, 50 per cent, or 75 per cent is a fair valuation. And when 
once an inventory has been taken on the basis of cost (or, better, 
if whenever articles are replaced they are listed as belonging to 
that department), an allowance for shrinkages can be made each 
year without undue labor. It should be recognized, of course, 
that depreciation in one article is offset by new value in another 
article in the same department, and that what we desire is never 
individual valuations but the valuation of equipment for any depart- 
ment as a whole. 

The bookkeeping methods by which all this may be brought 
about may be worth summarizing. The various departments of 
an institution would be given general accounts in the general ledger, 
and for convenience in making memoranda, etc., each would have 
its symbol. These departmental accounts would be divided each 
into several special accounts, each of which would be represented 
in a subordinate ledger containing details for the various items of 
direct expense pertaining to them, — such, for example, as express, 



191 2] Uniform Accounting for Institutions 49 

stationery, postage, and miscellanies, under office expense. Each 
of these general accounts would have also certain subdivisions 
which would be used ordinarily only for transfer or closing entries 
at the end of each month, quarter, or year. In the ordinary course 
of bookkeeping the special expense accounts, such as have been 
enumerated for the office expense, would be debited from the cash 
book or the voucher register, and this plan would contemplate no 
change in the method except possibly the provision of a special 
expense ledger which would show in detail the items shown in the 
lump sum for the general ledger account. The various items 
which cannot be charged directly as payment is made, such as board, 
lodging, interest, depreciation, etc., would be charged to accounts 
representing the institution as a whole, or certain subdivisions 
of those accounts, and would be distributed at the end of any 
convenient period to the proper accounts representing depart- 
ments. 

This may be illustrated by the housekeeping department. In 
the ordinary course of business this department would be debited for 
wages, supplies, and express, but at intervals it must be debited in 
addition for the board of its employees, for their rooms, for their 
laundry, for interest on its equipment, and for depreciation. To the 
steward's department will have been charged not only the cost of 
all food purchased, but salaries, etc., and to the kitchen department 
will have been charged wages, supplies, fuel, etc., and also board, 
rooms, and laundry of its employees. When all the costs for the 
steward's department and for the kitchen department have been 
combined into a "transfer board account," a total may be dis- 
tributed by a simple journal entry to the various departments 
concerned, and the housekeeping department in its turn will be 
charged with its share, to be added to the items already mentioned. 
This total debit to the housekeeping department is then transferred 
to the "transfer housing account." To this transfer housing ac- 
count would be transferred also the cost of repairs of buildings, 
interest on investment in buildings, taxes, etc. The total is then 
distributed to the various departments having employees housed, 
or using quarters for their own transactions — such as operating 
rooms in a hospital. In the end, nothing remains in the transfer 
housing account but that which is properly chargeable to the per- 
sons for whom the institution is maintained, as already suggested. 
These transfer items appear to be more or less complicated and to 



5o The Journal of Home Economics [February 

require a good deal of labor, but when the system has once been 
worked out and the method thoroughly understood, it is a simple 
matter to attain the final figures of cost as already outlined. 

The result of all this is the possibility of learning accurate costs 
all along the line — total costs per capita day, costs per capita day 
for large groups of expense, costs per capita day for small detailed 
items of expense, and actual amounts of expense for both large 
and small divisions These, moreover, would be all put on the 
same plane, e. g., compensation would be all compensation, whether 
in wages, board, or what not, and so institutions under different 
conditions in such respects could be compared, and within an insti- 
tution comparisons could be made of different methods. Only 
when this sort of thing is done can any valuable comparisons be 
made, for no two institutions are operated under the same con- 
ditions. 

Discussion of Professor Cole's paper: 

Mr. Cole's paper was discussed as follows: 

The question as to the proper method of evaluating the produce of 
one department which is used by another department was raised, and 
Mr. Cole stated that, in his opinion, the department producing the 
product should be credited with the actual cost of production, and the 
department utilizing the product should be charged at the same rate. 
The concrete example used was that of the products raised on the 
farms of institutions and consumed by the inmates. 

Mr. Dewey said that such products should be charged at their mar- 
ket value, the producing department having the benefit of any profit 
accruing. 

The different methods used in reckoning per capita food costs were 
outlined by Mr. Dewey as follows: 

(i) Dividing the total cost for workers and guests upon the basis 
of the number of guests. 

(2) Dividing the food cost of certain groups of workers and guests 
upon the basis of the number of guests. 

(3) Separating the food cost of the workers from that of the guests 
and getting the per capita cost per eater. 

This difference in method of computation makes nearly all the avail- 
able data useless for comparative purposes. 



1912] Tenement House Supervision 51 

TENEMENT HOUSE SUPERVISION. 

Miss Emily Wayland Dinwiddie. 

Trinity Church Corporation, New York City. 

There are not enough competent workers in any branch of tenement 
house supervision . The development of the improved housing move- 
ment is constantly creating new positions to be filled. One city after 
another is attacking its housing problems and calling for experts to 
help in investigations and plans. New model tenements are being 
built and the owners in some cases are having serious difl&culty in find- 
ing supervisors. 

A tenement owner said to me a short time ago that it was hard to 
secure a manager for her houses. I said:"Haveyou tried so and so?" 
She replied: "It is no use. Ever so many people want her, but she 
cannot take charge of more houses than she has already." 

A citizens' committee interested in a housing campaign in a large 
city tried for two years to find an experienced investigator to study 
their local conditions. Their important campaign was delayed dur- 
ing this time because of the scarcity of trained workers, making it 
impossible for them to secure one to fit their needs. 

There are positions for women as well as men. It is interesting to 
see the part the former are playing. Much of the work of the Octavia 
Hill Association in Philadelphia has been done by women directors 
and rent collectors. In New York Miss Ellen Collins and Miss L. T. 
Caldwell have been conspicuously successful in model management of 
houses. The City and Suburban Homes Company, the largest model 
tenement organization in New York City, employs women as both 
superintendents and rent collectors. Mr. Alfred T. White of Brook- 
lyn has a woman in charge of each of his groups of model houses. 
Many of the best special housing investigations, such as those of Miss 
Mary B. Sayles in Jersey City and Miss Janet Kemp in Baltimore and 
Louis\dlle, have been made by women. Not a few of the more per- 
manent unofiQcial positions dealing with the general tenement house 
situation are held by women, such as Miss Madge D. Headley in New 
York and Miss Clark in Boston. In New York, in Chicago, in Phil- 
adelphia, and in other dries women have been appointed official 
municipal sanitary inspectors. 

Tenement house supervision is a wide field, covering several differ- 
ent kinds of work. There are special investigations, both unofficial 



S? The Journal of Home Economics [February 

and oflScial, the former conducted on behalf of citizens' committees 
or other private organizations or private individuals, the latter carried 
on under the direction of municipal, state, or federal housing commis- 
sions appointed for a limited time. There are various forms of per- 
manent supervision, either public or private, of the tenement condi- 
tions of any given locality, such as the work of the Tenement House 
Committee of the Charity Organization Society in New York, and of 
the New York City Tenement House Department. And there is the 
supervision and management of the individual tenement house or 
groups of tenements on behalf of the owners. This last in the United 
States is private enterprise only, since we have no municipal or other 
public ownership of tenement buildings. 

The results already accomplished in all divisions of the work make 
an inspiring record of achievement. 

In New York in the early days great improvements were brought 
about through the investigations of the New York Association for 
Improving the Condition of the Poor, the city inspectors, the council 
of hygiene, the Metropolitan Board of Health, the successive Tene- 
ment House Commissions, and individual pioneers in the field, such 
as Mr. Alfred T. White, and Mr. Jacob Riis. Existing conditions 
were brought before the public and steps were taken to remedy many 
of the worst of the evils. 

Tenement houses may seem bad today, but if we compare present 
and past we find ground for encouragement. We no longer have the 
old fever centres. In 1842 Dr. John H. Griscom, then city inspector 
in New York, described one of these. The front building was partly 
used as a saloon and partly let to Irish families. A covered alleyway 
led to the rear house on the same lot, occupied by negroes. A number 
of pigsties and stables surrounded the yard. From the quantity of 
filth, liquid and otherwise, from these, the yard had become almost 
impassable. To remedy this it had been completely boarded over. 
The boards were partly decayed and by a little pressure even in dry 
weather a thick greenish fluid could be forced up through the crevices. 
In the rear building in the course of six weeks there occurred nine 
cases of typhus fever. By way of reforming the building it is recorded 
that later the number of pigs about it "was reduced to that allowed 
by law." 

The filth of the houses, the primitive methods of disposal of waste, 
and the swarms of flies carrying disease germs from foul matter to 
food and drink offered favorable conditions for the development of 



1912] Tenement House Supervision 53 

sickness. Six thousand people in the city died of cholera and related 
intestinal diseases in five months at the time of one epidemic.^ 

In the infamous Gotham Court, otherwise known as Single and 
Double Alley from the two alleys along the length of the building 
and containing the partly open sewers carrying off the drainage of 
the houses, Dr. Pulling said in 1864, that of the 504 inmates of the 
court at the time of his \dsit, 146 were suffering from diseases of var- 
ious kinds, including 4 cases of smallpox, 8 of typhus fever, 7 of scar- 
let fever, 27 of infantile marasmus, 12 of consumption, 5 of dysentery, 
and a large number of cases of other intestinal diseases and of skin 
diseases. As to the infant mortality, he said: "Thirty per cent of 
those bom here do not survive a twelvemonth." 

It is something that advancing sanitary standards have wiped out 
such houses as these of the old days. 

In recent times progress has been even more marked in many re- 
spects. In New York, for example, as an outgrowth of the work of 
the Tenement House Committee with Mr. Lawrence Veiller as secre- 
tary, there was appointed the State Tenement House Commission 
of 1900, which drafted the present tenement house law, and in 1902 
there was created the present permanent municipal Tenement House 
Department, whose sole work it is to see that the tenement buildings 
in the city are built and maintained as required by law. 

This means that the type of new tenements going up in New York 
City has been radically changed. The so-called "new-law" tenement 
has taken the place of the old "dumb-bell" type in Manhattan and 
the Bronx and the "railroad train" in the other boroughs. 

Instead of the halls and 10 out of 14 rooms being dark and ill- 
ventilated on each floor below the top story, as was the case in the 
"dumb-bells," the halls and rooms in the new tenements all have 
light and air. In place of the old 28 inches wide air-shaft on which 
bedrooms opened, the inner court in the ordinary new building in 
Manhattan is now 12^ by 25 feet and in addition has a tunnel at the 
bottom extending out to the street or yard to give a current of fresh air. 

Each family in a new tenement has its separate water supply and 
sanitary accommodations. 

Fire escapes with inchned stairs, flat treads, and a hand rail have 
taken the place of the old vertical ladder type, down which officials 
in the Fire Department reported no woman or child had ever been 
known to escape. Halls are now fireproof and the cellars, a danger 

'Report on Cholera in New York, Board of Health, 1849. 



54 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

point for the starting of fires, are cut ofif from the floors above by fire- 
proof ceilings and outside instead of inside stairs. 

The improvements in these two points alone is an immense advance. 
In "new law" houses we have approximately a million people living 
in light rooms instead of the dark rooms which were being built imme- 
diately before the passage of the law and would presumably have 
continued to be built but for its enactment. This must inevitably 
influence the tuberculosis rate and the general vitality. In the matter 
of improved fire protection we can see results already. A fairly recent 
report of the Tenement House Department showed an average of 
between forty and fifty deaths a year from fire in the old tenements 
and not a single death in the new buildings, though these have been 
erected now for ten years and house a million people. 

The Department under the law also required improvements in the old 
houses, including the lighting of dark rooms at least by large windows 
to adjoining rooms, the providing of fire-escapes for apartments where 
these are now lacking, the supplying of running water on every floor, 
and the replacing of antiquated arrangements for the disposal of waste 
by modern plumbing. And in both old and new houses some degree 
of cleanliness and repair is enforced by the municipal authorities. 

Private effort, too, has brought excellent results. Miss Ellen 
Collins in New York and such organizations as the Octavia Hill Asso- 
ciation in Philadelphia have taken some of the worst houses to be 
found, and have transformed them into sanitary and safe homes, still 
cheap enough to be within reach of the very poor. Model tenement 
building also has extended greatly and new types have been developed. 

The accomplishments of the past show what can be done, and the 
conditions of today call for much more that needs still to be done. Our 
congestion problems have hardly been touched. We still permit dark 
rooms in new one- and two-family houses, as these do not come under 
the legal definition of tenement buildings. We have not yet foimd a 
method of effectually dealing with home manufacturing in the tene- 
ments. Model management of old houses in the city is greatly needed. 
There is abundant room for other landlords to take up work similar 
in the main to what Trinity Corporation is doing in making improve- 
ments in existing houses and attempting to keep them in the best 
possible condition, though the situation of Trinity is peculiar in that 
the majority of its dwelKng houses, although in down-town New York, 
are not tenement buildings even according to the legal definition, but 
are private houses for one or two families, and with very few excep- 



1 9 1 2 ] Graphic Charts 55 

tions were not built by the Corporation, but by other owners holding 
ground leases, the houses coming into the possession of Trinity Church 
only on the expiration of the leases. 

Other cities in some cases are only now waking to the fact that they 
have a housing and sanitation problem, though they may have miles 
of unsewered streets, an intolerable drainage situation, a recurrence 
of typhoid every year after the height of the fly season, and overcrowd- 
ing, dirt, and tuberculosis everywhere in the poorer sections. 

Housing evals are ages old. Tenement buildings to shelter a num- 
ber of families under the same roof were constructed in ancient Rome 
as early as 455 B. C, and Augustus Caesar, on account of the unsafe 
skyscraper buildings of his day, was obliged to make a decree limiting 
the height of housees to 68 Roman feet, about that of our modern New 
York tenements. 

The problem has existed for many years in the past and it will mean 
work for years to come before we are within sight of our ideal, the 
elimination of the slum and the making it possible for every man, 
woman, and child to live in a decent, safe, and healthful home. But 
there is hope for the future. The great progress already made and 
the fact that public sentiment is aroused to the need for further pro- 
gress both augur well for what we may expect the next decades to bring. 
Many of our earlier housing evils have been wiped out. Typhus 
and not a few of the other filth diseases of the crowded centres of for- 
mer times are now practically unknown. With the passing of the 
present tenements built under old laws in New York and in most 
other cities the fire-trap multiple dwellmg, and the bedrooms without 
windows to the outside air, -^ill be done away -^ith — for all time, we 
hope. If the same energy be applied with the same success to our 
remaining problems, there is ground for hope that they too may be 
solved and the generations of city dwellers of the years to come be 
able to live under happier and healthier conditions than those of 
today have ever known. 

GRAPHIC CHARTS. 

Melvil Dewey. 

An intelligent use of comparative graphs or cur\'es with colors and 
broken lines gives any statistics in a form as much clearer 1 han figures 
as a photograph is clearer than any description of a persr n or land- 



56 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

scape. One who tries to think in figures is now hopelessly out of date. 
The curves or graphs with the rising or falling Hne, showing the tend- 
ency, conveys the information in the simplest and clearest way known 
to the human mind. The same details in a mass of figures convey 
little meaning except to one skilled in their use, just as a page of music 
indicates the harmony only to the trained musician, or the elaborate 
working plans of the architect or engineer convey to the expert only 
the clear conception of the building or machine that is in his mind. 

We have found the greatest possible gain in the use of these graphs. 
Over ICO distinct lines of information are given in them monthly. 
A page of totals is followed by a page on the same subject of gain or 
loss if values are involved. A zero line through the center, with lines 
numbered by some convenient unit up and down, shows gain when 
the line is above this equator and loss when it is below. In the sheets 
of figures from which this information is drawn, gain is in green ink, 
loss in lilac, receipts in red, and outgo in blue. The green, lilac, and 
red correspond with the initials of their meanings. We prefer colored 
inks as finer lines can be made and when dry they rub less, but colored 
pencils are often more convenient and answer very well. 

For food and per capita we take inventories every lo days and divide 
each month into 3 units, the fourth being i day for the 31 day months. 
The decade is much better than the week, for mere moving of the 
decimal point shows instantly the exact daily average. The 8 days 
in February is thus the one case each year requiring division. 
For the number of guests or any item where the daily tendency is 
important, the curve can follow the daily numbers, but for most 
things we measure off the monthly point above or below the zero line 
and connect it with the last month. Then all the information goes 
into yearly curves and later into 5-year and lo-year periods. We sel- 
dom have any need for quarters, but in schools, terms might be useful. 

We cumulate most of our charts of figures, inserting a total footing 
the second month, so that the last figure interlined in red ink is the 
total from the beginning of the year, while the ink of other colors is 
the total of each current month. A graph of these cumulations shows 
tendencies very closely in comparing different years, months, or decades 
for the same institution, or in comparing any period for similar insti- 
tutions. 

The best colors, after black, are red, blue, green, and lilac. It is 
wise wherever gain, loss, or receipts are involved to use green, lilac, 
and red as the initials suggest the meanings. 



1912] The Respiration Calorimeter 57 

Take this graph of the cost of the table per day per guest for meat, 
poultry, fish, butter, eggs, milk, cream, groceries, fruit, vegetables. 
A cook who can't interpret figures or even read English, can imder- 
stand if this yellow line, which represents cream, is rising above its 
normal place, that one or more of four things is happening: 

(i) Extravagance in the cream used in cooking and serving to 
guests. 

(2) Use of cream for help. 

(3) Allowing it to spoil and waste. 

(4) Theft. 

When the lo-day inventory is taken and its curve extended one 
colimin farther, a quick glance shows in which of the 10 groups of food 
costs are rising and need special watching. 

We keep adding to the 100 sets of graphs now maintained with 
trifling labor, new information and we get danger signals for things 
that are going wrong and need correction more easily and cheaply 
than ever before. I can not urge too strongly on every administra- 
tor that he put into these curves every item that merits his study. 
While they are very useful and impressive in their clearness, compact- 
ness, and ingenuity, it is a very simple matter to make them and 
keep them up when one catches the general principle. It is easy to 
keep the forms worked out with great skill by experts. Nothing saves 
an administrator more than intelligent use of cumulative, compara- 
tive curves, 

THE RESPIRATION CALORIMETER OF THE U. S. 

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND 

WORK UNDERTAKEN WITH IT. 

C. F. Langworthy. 

Chief, Nutrition Investigations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

The respiration calorimeter installed at the Department of Agri- 
culture has been considerably modified and numerous experimental 
studies carried on with this instrument as an important part of the 
nutrition investigations of the OflBce of Experiment Stations. In its 
present form the respiration calorimeter differs materially from the 
apparatus used in earlier experiments, having been greatly improved 
in construction and vdth. respect to the accessory apparatus used with 
it. Recently, dexdces have been installed for controlling, as it enters 



58 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

the chamber, the temperature of the water current used to carry out 
the heat liberated in the calorimeter, and for automatically recording 
the difference in temperature between this water current as it enters 
and leaves the chamber. This means that some of the most diffi- 
cult details connected wdth the calorimeter investigations are now 
automatically controlled and recorded. 

Particular attention is being paid to studies of the comparative ease 
of digestion of meat and cheese used in comparable quantities. Exper- 
iments will be undertaken to test the relative value as sources of energy 
of culinary and table fats. Along with this work studies will be made 
of methods of preparing and serving such fats and of their place in 
the diet. 

Hitherto experiments with respiration calorimeters have been made 
with human beings as subjects or with special forms adapted to tests 
with laboratory animals or farm animals. During the past year the 
respiration calorimeter of the Department of Agriculture has been 
adapted to experiments with plant Life and experiments were made 
in which the respiratory exchange and the energy output of bananas 
were studied during the active ripening period. There are a great 
many problems of vegetable physiology of practical as well as of 
scientific interest which may be studied to advantage with the res- 
piration calorimeter, and it is believed that a great advance has been 
made in providing new methods for the study of such questions. 

The matters briefly referred to here are taken up at greater length 
in recent publications of the U. S. Department of Agriculture.^ 

^The Respiration Calorimeter and the Results of Experiments with it. Re- 
print (Separate 542) from U. S. Dept. Agr., Yearbook 1910; and The Respira- 
tion Calorimeter: Recent Improvements and New Applications. Reprint from 
Experiment Station Record, 24 (191 1), No. 7, pp. 601-606. 



1912] State and Municipal Documents 59 

STATE AND MUNICIPAL DOCUMENTS AS SOURCES 

OF INFORMATION FOR INSTITUTION MANAGERS 

AND OTHER STUDENTS OF HOME ECONOMICS. 

C. F. Langworthy. 

Chief of Nutrition Investigations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

The printed page, giving as it does the record of observations, the 
•deductions drawn from them, the discussion they have caused, and 
the philosophy they have inspired, is the universally recognized and 
commonest source of information. 

Books, using the term to mean the output of publishing houses, 
great and small, are known and consulted by everyone, in part at least 
because the pubhshers and the booksellers see to it that their wares 
are not overlooked, but most of all because long usage has made us all 
familiar with this kind of publication. The librarian classifies and 
catalogues books so that they are readily accessible to the reader, and 
to them the seeker after knowledge first turns of his ov^-u initiative 
or is first directed. 

Periodicals constitute another great group of publications which in 
general are readily accessible and in which the student commonly seeks 
information. Possibly because they must be purchased and so have 
a recognized money value, though without doubt chiefly because 
perodicals are a well organized and well kno-um group of publi- 
cations, they are generally well cared for in libraries and well 
classified and indexed. It follows that a particular article may be 
readily found from catalogues or from some standard work of refer- 
ence, such as Poole's Index of Periodical Literature, to cite a familiar 
example, though one more concerned with general literature. 

We may group together publications of learned societies and scien- 
tific societies and similar associations as a third great division. Some 
of this literature is sold through the regular channels of trade but much 
of it is distributed without cost to society members, to libraries, and 
less commonly to individuals. Perhaps in part because learned socie- 
ties have existed so long that they have acquired the dignity of age, 
their publications are valued by the librarian, are usually well classified 
by him, and accordingly are fairly well known to the expert and to 
the teacher, though much less commonly to the student. 

The publications of private organizations should also be mentioned, 
namely, such organizations as the Russell Sage Foundation, the Car- 



6o The Journal of Home Economics [February 

negie Institution of Washington, and the Rockefeller Institute for 
Medical Research. These organizations justly rank with learned 
societies, and their publications are appreciated at their full value 
by the expert and the advanced worker. 

The great number of publications of private organizations, for in- 
stance the reports of national conventions of various trade organiza- 
tions, constitute a source of information which is little known, even 
to the specialist, and perhaps seldom consulted except by those inter- 
ested in the manufacture or the sale of special products. Simply as 
an illustration of this class of literature, mention may be made of the 
report of a convention of the National Association of Master Bakers 
held in Baltimore in 191 o. As is usually the case with such reports, 
the bulk of the material included is of interest only to the organiza- 
tion, yet there is one paper. Report of Association Fellowship Student 
at University of Kansas, by H. A. Kohman,^ which gives the details 
of some interesting laboratory studies of bread making problems, a 
paper which should not be overlooked by students of this subject. 

In a paper prepared for the American Home Economics Association^ 
two years ago the attempt was made to point out the importance of 
another group of publications usually passed over by the student and 
neglected by the librarian, yet appreciated by the expert and advanced 
worker, and really containing material of the greatest value, namely, 
the documents published by the different branches of the general 
government. Each one of the other groups of publications referred 
to would furnish material for a paper. In the following pages atten- 
tion is directed to a large group of publications which, like government 
documents, can generally be had for the asking, and like them are too 
often stored or placed on out of the way shelves by the librarian and 
neither classified, catalogued, not consulted, yet containing an enor- 
mous amount of interesting and valuable material. These are the 
publications of States and municipalities. 

That such publications cover a wide range of subjects most of us 
are aware. Nevertheless, it may be instructive to consider the list 
in some detail. 

Massachusetts, for instance, issues publications which have been 
grouped under the following heads: Constitution and constitutional 
conventions; executive and staff; inspection and regulation, which 
would include the Board of Agriculture reports, the reports of the 

^ Rpt. Thirteenth Conv. Nat. Assoc. Master Bakers, Baltimore, 1910, p. 29. 
* Jour. Home Econ., i (1909), pp. 227-252. 



191 2] State and Municipal Documents 61 

State Board of Lunacy and Charity, the Dairy Bureau, and the Bureau 
of Statistics of Labor; institutions, which include agricultural experi- 
ment station publications as well as reports of educational, penal, and 
corrective institutions; judiciary; and miscellaneous documents; 
with the colonial and provincial reports grouped in an appendix. 
This classification is quoted from R. R. Bowker's' standard work of 
reference dealing with state publications, which gives a list only of 
publications and makes no attempt to give information as to the con- 
tents of the documents listed. Nevertheless, it is of great value as it 
is the only published list of the sort which includes all the States of 
the Union. 

A reference work dealing with state documents which is of the great- 
est importance is the Index of Economic Material in Documents of 
the States of the United States,^ by Adelaide R. Hasse, prepared for 
the Department of Economics and Sociology of the Carnegie Institu- 
tion of Washington and published by that Institution. A volume of 
this series is devoted to each State and it is the author's purpose to 
list under appropriate headings all the documents issued up to 1904. 
For instance, the Illinois volume includes documents from 1809-1904. 
The States so far included are California, Delaware, Illinois, Kentucky, 
Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, and 
Vermont, other volumes being in progress. It is the intention to give a 
complete list of the public documents of each State. The various 
documents are not completely indexed, only the economic material 
having been selected for this purpose. As is perhaps inevitable, the 
index is more or less selective. Nevertheless, the work as a whole is 
the only published guide to the contents of state documents and gives 
information which can not be readily found anywhere else. 

The usefulness of the documents listed may be gathered from some 
of the headings followed in classifying them, as, for instance: Indus- 
tries, such as bakery trade, canning, clothing trades, dairy industries, 
etc.; education; labor, with such subdivisions as child labor, wages, 
house industries, and cost of living; maintenance, which includes 
charities, public institutions, and related subjects; water supply; 
natural resources; population, betterment; sewerage; and many others. 

Appreciating the great importance of state documents, the Library 

' State Publications — A Provisional List of the Official Publications of the Sev- 
eral States of the United States, New York, 1908, pp. 28-59. 

*Index of Economic Material in Documents of the States of the United States, 
Vols, i-io, 1907-1910, Baltimore, Md. 



62 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

of Congress has recently commenced the publication of a monthly 
bulletin giving the documents received by the Library, classified by 
States under headings such as agriculture, statistics, etc., and so anno- 
tated that some general idea at least may be obtained of the character 
of the contents of the documents. This publication^ should be in the 
hands of everyone who wishes to follow literature of this character. 
It is issued by the Division of Documents of the Library. 

That the institution manager as well as other students of Home 
Economics can find very important material in State and municipal 
pubhcations, and oftentimes information which could not be found 
anywhere else, can perhaps best be demonstrated by citing some par- 
ticular instances covering a rather wide range of topics out of the many 
which might answer the purpose equally well or maybe better. The 
material has been grouped under the following heads: Expenses and 
expenditures; water supply and sewage disposal; building materials 
and their use; supplies and equipment; housing systems and other 
similar problems; institution dietetics and other food and nutrition 
topics; problems of labor and service; and educational opportunities 
and courses of instruction. 

Expenses and Expenditures. 

The question of expenses and expenditures is one which first con- 
fronts the institution manager or the student of institution problems. 
If one desires information on this subject it must be sought in the 
reports of the various institutions which give an account of the income 
and expenditures, and nearly every institution publishes at least an 
annual or a biennial report. If it is desired to make a comparison 
between the cost of food or other supplies for the current year in com- 
parison with other years, reliable statistical data can be found in the 
publications of the State Bureau of Statistics or similar department 
which most States maintain. For instance, a recent annual report 
of the Bureau of Statistics of New Jersey^ contains apaper on the Cost 
of Living in New Jersey, by W. C. Garrison, which gives food prices 
and other items. The recently published report of the Massachusetts 
Bureau of Statistics,^ entitled Report of Commission on the Cost of 
Living, is a very exhaustive inquiry into the causes of the high cost 

'Monthly List of State Publications, Washington: Govt. Printing Office. 

'Ann. Rpt. Bur. Statis., N. J., 1909, pp. 141-151. 

'Rpt. Mass. Bur. Statis., 1910, pp. 752 (House Doc. 1750). 



1912] State and Municipal Documents 63 

of living and discusses industrial conditions, market conditions, the 
marketing of commodities, wholesale and retail prices, and other 
similar problems. 

Other instances might be cited as the number of articles of this sott 
is large. 

Water Supply and Sewage Disposal. 

Questions of water supply and sewage disposal are of importance 
to the institution manager and to everyone else. In collecting infor- 
mation on such a subject state and municipal documents can not be 
overlooked. Existing conditions and plans tried in many institutions 
can often be learned by a study of annual reports, which quite commonly 
give plans of new buildings and descriptions of other equipment, par- 
ticularly anything which has been recently installed. The bulletin^ 
of the New York State Department of Health for March, 1907, con- 
tains an interesting paper on The Pollution and Self-Purification of 
Ice. Mention may also be made of the numerous reports of original 
work along various lines carried on at the Water Experiment Station 
of Lawrence, Massachusetts, and reported in the publication of the 
Massachusetts State Board of Health. 

The public institution can often control conditions as the community 
can not, since it equips its ovm water supply and sewage disposal sys- 
tem. As a pubhcation^ bearing on this subject may be mentioned A 
Preliminary Report on the Artesian Well System of Georgia, by S. 
W. McCallie, published by the Geological Survey of Georgia. 

A Check List of Works Relating to the Water Supply, Sewers, etc., 
of the City of New York in the New York Public Librar>'i° contains 
titles of reports and other documents. This it is interesting to consult 
not alone because it contains titles of useful works, but also because it 
furnishes a good illustration of the careful indexing and cataloguing 
of municipal documents. 

BuiLDLNG Materials and Their Use. 

The intelligent and economical construction of buildings should be 
based upon a knowledge of building materials. The Geological Sur- 

*Mo. Bui. N. Y. Dept. Health, 23 (1907), No. 2, pp. 2-6. 
9 Bui. N. Y. Pub. Libr., 5 (1901), No. 4, p. 133. 
" Ga. Geol. Survey Bui. 7, 1898. 



64 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

vey of Georgia has published an exhaustive report" on the Marbles of 
Georgia, by S. W. McCallie, which contains the results of the chemi- 
cal and physical examination of marbles as well as much other inter- 
esting data. A bulletin^ of the Wisconsin Geological and Natural 
History Survey, entitled Building and Ornamental Stones of Wisconsin, 
by E. R. Buckley, also contains much information of general interest. 

In the same connection may be mentioned The Uses of Hydraulic 
Cement,i3 by F. H. Eno, and The Manufacture of Roofing Tiles,^* 
by W. G. Worcester, both published by the Ohio Geological 
Survey. 

The use of concrete in the construction of farm buildings is discussed 
together with a number of other questions in an article^^ by R. M, 
Washburn in an annual report of the State Dairy and Food Commis- 
sioner of Missouri. 

Supplies and Equipment. 

The equipment of an institution or other enterprise, Hke the plans 
followed in the construction of buildings, is very commonly described 
in annual reports and similar publications. Of special interest are 
detailed discussions of particular sorts of equipment. For instance, 
in an article on Barn Plans and Conveniences, by R. M. Washburn, in 
an annual report^^of the State Dairy and Food Commissioner, Missouri, 
much information is presented which is of interest in this and in other 
connections as well, for example, the comparative value of shingles 
and prepared roofing, the gasoline engine and the approximate cost 
of different sizes, the equipment of mills for grinding feed or other 
materials, and the use of concrete construction materials which has 
been mentioned in another section. This article also takes up the 
problem of a sanitary dairy and in this connection gives detailed direc- 
tions for the installation of a power laundry of a size suitable for a 
dairy farm. 

The question of laundry equipment is discussed by Miss Ilena Bailey 



1' Ga. Geol. Survey Bui. i, 1907, 2. ed., rev. and enl. 

" Wis. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Survey Bui. 4, 1898, Econ. Ser. 2. 

^' Ohio Geol. Survey Bui. 2, 1904, 4 ser. 

^*Ohio Geol. Survey Bui. 11, 1910, 4. ser. 

^^ Ann. Rpt. State Dairy and Food Comr. Mo., i (1907), p. 145. 

^^ Ann. Rpt. State Dairy and Food Comr. Mo., i (1907), pp. 129-165. 



1 91 2] State and Municipal Documents 65 

in a bulletin^^ of the Missouri State Board of Agriculture, in a report 
of the Missouri Home Makers' Conference Association. 

The New York State Water Supply Commission has quite recently 
published a pamphlet^^ dealing -vsith water power for the farm and 
country home, by David R. Cooper, which discusses the use of tur- 
bines and the older types of water wheel as well as the generation of 
electric power by means of water power. The application of the power 
to domestic processes, including cookery, to the running of laundry 
machines, and in ver>' many other ways in the home and dairy and on 
the farm is also considered. 

If one is interested in the relative value of fuels, such documents as 
Report on the Coals of the Three Forks of the Kentucky River, by 
J. M. Hodge, published by the Kentucky Geological Survey^' is 
worth attention, as it contains a large number of analyses in addition 
to descriptive matter and miscellaneous information. 

Systems followed in the purchase of supplies, including food, and 
much data relating to the matter of handling, storing, and issuing of 
supplies, and the relative economy of different systems can be gathered 
from institution publications. The question of the home production 
of vegetables, dairy products, hay, and other supplies involves the 
same agricultural questions as arise on any farm, and others as well, 
as, for instance, the opportunity offered for benefiting the inmates by 
having them take part in out of door manual labor. Agricultural 
problems are considered in publications of the state departments of 
agriculture, as are others of general interest, facts which the institu- 
tion manager should know, as well as his farm superintendent and 
the student who hopes to fill some such position. 

Housing Systems and Other Similar Problems. 

If the student wishes to know the success of various systems of 
housing, information can be found in reports of institutions which 
discuss the cottage system in comparison with the large building, and 
related topics. In the same way it is to reports of public institutions 
that one must turn for information regarding various systems of 
management which are in use. 

^' Water Power for the Farm and Country Home, N. Y. State Water Supply Com., 
Albany, 191 i. 
"Monthly Bui. Mo. Bd. Agr., 8 (1910), No. 2, pp. 33-41 
" Ky. Geol. Survey Bui. 11, 1910. 



66 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Institution Dietetics and Other Food and Nutrition Topics. 

The question of institution dietetics is naturally one of great inter- 
est and it is one subject on which many papers have been published. 
It is interesting to note that one of the earhest American investiga- 
tions on such a topic, namely, A Report on Food and Diet, etc., 2° 
by John Stanton Gould, which summarizes a large amount of data 
regarding food and other conditions in American public institutions, 
was conducted and published in 1852 under the joint auspices of the 
Commissioners of Immigration and the Board of Governors in the 
New York Almshouse Department. 

Not only do reports of public institutions contain information as 
to the amounts of food supplied and its cost, but also regarding 
the character of the food and methods followed in preparing and serv- 
ing it. The publication of menus is quite usual. 

Of special investigations may be mentioned the extended series of 
dietary studies carried on in New York state hospitals for the insane 
by Professor W. O. Atwater, and published in the annual reports^^ 
of the New York State Commission in Lunacy. 

These papers report an extended series of dietary studies, discuss 
the results at length, and propose dietary standards. One of their 
most valuable features is the collection of tables of quantities of food 
materials which may be supplied for some given material taken as a 
standard, for instance the amount of different vegetables or other foods 
which may be substituted for 100 pounds of potatoes in making up 
menus. Included in this report is a paper. Recipes for Cooking and 
Suggestions for Improvement in Kitchen Administration ,22 by Maria 
Daniell, which gives a large number of recipes in quantities sufficient 
for 100 persons. In these reports Professor Atwater has presented a 
mass of figures and observations, discussed many problems, and drawn 
many deductions. No student of institution dietetics can afford to 
be ignorant of the details of these investigations. 



2° A Report on Food and Diet, with Observations on the Dietetical Regimen, 
Suited for i\lmshouses, Prisons, and Hospitals; also on Heating, Ventilation, etc., 
with Practical Recommendations. New York, 1852. 

" nth Arm. Rpt. N. Y. State Com. in Lunacy, pp. 190-566; 13th Ann. Rpt. 
N. Y. State Com. in Lunacy, pp. 38-322, Albany, 1902. 

** Recipes for Cooking and Suggestions for Improvement in Kitchen Adminis- 
tration. 13th Ann. Rpt. N. Y. State Com. in Lunacy, pp. 145-191. Albany, 1902. 



1912] State and Municipal Documents 67 

In one of the reports^^ of the Institutions Commissioner of the City 
of Boston, Mrs. Ellen H. Richards and Sarah E. Wentworth report 
the results of dietary studies in nine public institutions in Boston, and 
make a number of recommendations based on their work. 

In connection with extended investigations on the Etiology of Pel- 
lagra .^-^ a disease, which as everyone knows has been attributed to the 
eating of corn meal in quantity, or more specifically, to the eating of 
spoiled com meal, dietary studies were made and included in the reports 
pubHshed in bulletins of the Illinois Board of Health, The work 
was carried on by W. H. Buhlig, and by J. F. Siler and H. J. 
Nichols. No causative relation between the use of corn meal and pel- 
lagra was shown by the work. 

It is interesting to note that Buhlig reported tests with moldy corn 
meal to ascertain the resistance of molds to heat and whether they 
would survive in cooking processes. He found that corn meal mush 
and hominy, made in the usual way followed at the institution, by 
boiling for about 2 hours, was sterile. 

The preparation of food is not infrequently taken up in documents 
published under state auspices. In a paper on Corn Oil — Its Possible 
Use as an Adulterant in Lard and Its Detection,^ by W. McPherson 
and W. A. Ruth in the Annual Report of the Ohio Dair>' and Food 
Commissioner for 1906, tests are reported of the culinary qualities of 
lard and com oil mixtures. The paper is also valuable as a contri- 
bution to food chemistry' and as a source of information regarding 
corn oil — a food material of growing importance. 

The paper. How to Can Fruits and Vegetables on the Farm,^^ by Mrs. 
Mabel E. Moore, published by the Missouri Board of Horticulture, as 
a reprint from its Annual Report for 1908, is worth the attention of 
the institution manager, since it deals with the question of canning 
in quantity under home rather than under factory conditions. 

Most of the documents referred to have been issued under state 
auspices. A document prepared in this way, published by the State 
Board of Charities of New York, in 1906, and printed by the Depart- 
ment of Public Charities of New York City in the same year, is the 

" Report to his Honor the Mayor, and to the Institutions Commissioner, on the 
Dietaries of the Nine Institutions of the City of Boston. Ann. Rpt. Inst. Comr. 
City of Boston, 2 (1897), pp. 206-213. 

-^111. Bd. Health Mo. Bui., 5 (1909), No. 7, pp. 417-478. 

-^ Ann. Rpt. Ohio Dairy and Food Comr., 21(1906), pp. 18-23. 

** Ann. Rpt. Bd. Hort. Mo., 2 (1908), pp. 202-214. 



68 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

excellent summary, Dietaries for Charitable Institutions, by Florence 
C. Corbett, which discusses institution food problems and suggests 
ways for solving them. 

The institution problem is of necessity on a larger scale than that 
of the home, yet the question must often arise in one case as in the 
other — is it cheaper to cook foods or to purchase them ready cooked? 
One of the most careful studies of the relative cost of the two systems 
is that carried on by the Committee on Domestic Service of the Boston 
Branch of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, entitled The Rela- 
tive Cost of Home-Cooked and Purchased Food, and published in the 
Massachusetts Labor Bulletin for August, igoi.^^ 

Food inspection, dairy inspection, and similar work make up a 
large part of many state and municipal documents. Of recent legis- 
lation enacted on this subject may be mentioned Rules and Regula- 
tions Governing Butcher Shops and Meat Stalls^^ in Porto Rico. 

The storage of food almost inevitably involves some loss and accur- 
ate information regarding the character and extent of such losses 
under different conditions is needed by the institution manager. The 
Kansas Board of Health has reported studies by J. T. Willard^^ of the 
losses involved when flour is stored in sacks and when butter is stored 
under different conditions such as are usual in the butter trade. 

The question of the protection of the manufacturer of good goods 
and of the people by means of legislative enactments for the suppres- 
sion of adulteration of foods, drugs, paints, oils, and other supplies 
is a very important one, and one which is growing very rapidly in the 
amount of attention it is receiving. Documents which report such 
work are very numerous and commonly include the publications of 
the state board of health, the report of the state dairy and food com- 
missioner, or the bulletins of the state department of agriculture or 
the agricultural experiment station, as the carrying out of such inspec- 
tion work is usually entrusted in the several States to one or another 
of these agencies. The publications cited give not only an idea of 
the character and extent of the work (and it is interesting to note 
that improvement in the purity of the articles considered is very ap- 
parent after the laws have been in force for a time) but also include 
many discussions of food hygiene and general food problems. 

^^ Mass. Labor Bui. 19, 1901, pp. 67-98. 

^* Rules and Regulations Governing Butcher Shops and Meat Stalls, Porto Rico: 
Dept. Health, Charities, and Correction, 191 1, p. 6. 
** Bui. Kans. Bd. Health, 7 (191 1), No. i, pp. 9-14. 



19 1 2] State and Municipal Documents 69 

A paper, Simple Household Tests for the Detection of Adulteration 
in Foods,^" was published a few years ago by the Utah Dairy and Food 
Commission. A later publication on this subject by E. H. S. Bailey 
is entitled Some Kitchen Tests to Detect Adulterations in Common 
Foods. ^^ 

Closely related to the pure food and drug work is that concerned 
with the inspection of dairies, bakeries, food manufactories, laundries, 
etc., of interest to the public institution housekeeper as well as to the 
housewife, since each depends in large measure upon the manufac- 
turer. 

The reports referred to above contain many articles on such topics, 
most of them having to do with conditions under which food products 
are manufactured. 

The municipal ordinances, rules, and regulations regarding the han- 
dling and care of food, food protection, food manufacture, and other 
topics which have to do with clean food from a trade standpoint are 
published in numerous municipal or state documents. It is interesting 
to note that the U. S. Public Health and Marine Hospital Service 
collects and reprints these contributions to public health. For 
instance, a recently published summary"^ contains the rules and regula- 
tions adopted in American cities since Januar}^ i, 1910. 

An extended study^ of conditions in public laundries and other 
factories was reported in the Massachusetts State Board of Health 
Report for 1906. 

Questions which have to do with the conditions of manufacture of 
canned corn and other canned goods are included in the report of 
factory inspection published in annual reports of the Bureau of Fac- 
tory Inspection of the New York Department of Labor. Ventilation, 
sanitation, and other questions of hygiene are considered, as well as 
hours of labor and related matters. In general, it is in reports simi- 
lar to those just enumerated that matters pertaining to ventilation 
and other questions of hygiene are considered. 

Food hygiene is one of the very important divisions of food and die- 
tetics. An interesting question was studied by H. E. Barnard and H. 
E. Bishop under the auspices of the Indiana State Board of Health, 

'" Utah Dairy and Food Com., 1906, p. 15. 

*^ Bui. Dept. Food and Drug Insp. Mo., 3 (191 1), No. 1-3, pp. 34-42. 
»2 Pub. Health and Mar. Hosp. Serv. U. S., Pub. Health Rpts., 26 (iqii), No. 
47, pp. 1842-1849 
" Mass Bd. Health Rpt., 1906, pp. 449-619. 



70 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

namely, The Solubility of Zinc Electroplate in Lemonade and Citric 
Acid Solutions,^'* the work being undertaken to ascertain the possible 
harmfulness of galvanized iron containers for acid materials. As a 
result of their work, the State Board of Health issued a rule forbidding 
the use of such containers in the manufacture and storage of acid 
drinks. 

The Effect of Cold Storage upon Domestic Fowls'* was studied under 
the auspices of the Buffalo Department of Health, by W. G. Bissell, 
and the results published by the Board in a paper with the above title, 
and summarized in one of the Buffalo Sanitary Bulletins. This work 
is a valuable contribution to the subject of methods of handling poul- 
try for cold storage, etc. An excellent chemical study of drawn and 
undrawn poultry in cold storage, by W. F. Boos, and a bacteriological 
study of such poultry, by H. R. Brown, were reported in the Massa- 
chusetts State Board of Health Report for 1907.'^ 

H. E. Barnard has published in a report of the Indiana State Board 
of Health a study of The Bacterial Condition of Protected and Unpro- 
tected Foods at Restaurants, Meat Markets, Grocery Stores, Bake- 
shops, and Fruit Stores,^^ in which he reaches the conclusion that foods 
kept in glass cases are practically free from dust and accompanjdng 
bacteria, while food on exposed tables and racks is surrounded by air 
heavily laden with dirt and micro-organisms. His study of the effects 
of cleanliness of floors and utensils and other related data are of inter- 
est in the institution and indeed wherever food is handled or stored. 

Similar work is included in a bulletin of the Texas Board of Health, 
which discusses the general problem and briefly refers to a bacterio- 
logical study of samples of commercial milk, grapes, and berries exposed 
for sale on the sidewalks without protection from flies and street dust. 
J. S. Abbott,'^ who made this study, states that in every case patho- 
logical bacteria were found. Numerous other similar studies might 
be cited. 

Much has been written about the possibility of the transmission of 
tuberculosis by means of milk used as food, and the possibility of 
transmission of animal diseases in general to man. All who are inter- 
ested in such questions should read the article on Animal Diseases 

"Ann. Rpt. Bd. Health Ind., 27 (1908), pp. 254-256. 
^* Buffalo Sanit. Bui., n. s., 2 (1909), No. 3, pp. i, 2. 
'®Mass. Bd. Health Rpt., 1907, pp. 263-283, 285-336. 
''Ann. Rpt. Bd. Health Ind., 27 (1908), pp. 517-523. 
38 Bui. Tex. Bd. Health, 4 (1910), No. 11, pp. 16-18. 



1912] State and Municipal Documents 71 

Transmissible to Man,^^ by T. Smith, published in a bulletin of the 
State Board of Health of Massachusetts. It is interesting to contrast 
the calm and judicial statements of such an authority with the loose 
and biased statements which are so often encountered. 

The list of similar articles on food topics in state and municipal 
documents is a long one and many other papers might be cited. 

Bibliographies are always a help to the student and are often almost 
indispensable. Public libraries quite commonly publish bibliographies 
or check lists, sometimes as separate documents and sometimes 
included in library bulletins, or other similar documents. Several 
years ago the New York State Library issued a Bibliography of Domes- 
tic Economy ,"*° limited to works in English, which includes titles on 
shelter, heat, light, ventilation, clothing, administration, sanitary 
precautions, cleaning, and other such subjects as well as on economics 
of consumption, domestic economy, food, cooking, kitchen, dining 
room, gastronomy, household management, etc. 

The list^'of books on domestic science in the Boston Public Library, 
which has been recently compiled and published, is a classified list 
of titles of a very large and fine collection of works on this subject 
arranged under the following headings: Domestic economy, household 
management; food, nutrition, diet, digestion; beverages; cookery; 
the table, gastronomy, dining, table decoration, table service, enter- 
taining; and dress, clothing. The institution dietitian as well as the 
teacher and the student will find this Hst invaluable. It is interesting 
to note that the Boston Public Library contains as a part of the col- 
lection included in this list the books, chiefly on domestic science and 
cookery, collected by Miss Maria Parloa and bequeathed by her to 
the Library. 

A bibliography on hygiene published in 1894 by the library is also 
of interest for the obvious bearing of this subject on the many prob- 
lems of institutions management. 

The New York Public Library has published a list^^ of the works 
it possesses on prices, which includes titles on the regulation of prices, 
theory of prices, and other similar subjects, as well as titles of books and 
articles dealing with the prices of foods and various other commodities. 

'' Monthly Bull. Bd. Health. Mass, n. s., 4 (1909), No. 12, pp. 264-276. 
♦"N. Y. State Libr. Bui. 52, 1901 (Bibliography 22). 

*i A List of Books on Domestic Science in the Public Library of the City of Bos- 
ton, Boston, 191 1, pp. 78. 

"Bui. N. Y. Pub. Libr., 6 (1902), No. 4, P- 115. 



72 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Problems of Labor and Service. 

The total number of articles and volumes which have to do with 
the statistics of labor, wages, and all that pertains to this great ques- 
tion is large, as many States have bureaus of labor under one name or 
another. Aside from its obvious relation to institution management, 
such work has a very important sociological relation to the subject, 
as it has to do with many factors which afiect the lives of inmates of 
institutions for charity and correction before they enter the institu- 
tion, and which may be the cause of their present condition. 

The question of adequate help is of great importance to the house- 
keeper in the institution as well as in the home. 

A contribution to the literature of the subject is The Household 
Servant Problem in Maine,^^ a report of an exhaustive inquiry, 
which is published in a recent report of the Bureau of Industrial and 
Labor Statistics for the State of Maine, and is full of ideas and good 
sense in addition to being a carefully compiled record of facts bearing 
upon the case. 

Educational Opportunities and Courses of Instruction. 

The student of institution management, like other students of Home 
Economics, is interested in the general field of education and especially 
in the courses which are offered in different institutions which are 
needed for training in this special subject. 

In many States reports are published which outline courses and give 
much other information regarding the work in secondary schools, 
normal schools, colleges, and universities. Furthermore, state docu- 
ments contain an enormous number of published reports which dis- 
cuss educational questions. The reports of the activities of women's 
institutes and farmers' institutes, and of other institute and extension 
work, are very commonly published as state documents. Reference 
has already been made to the report of the women's institutes in Mis- 
souri, and mention may also be made of a similar publication report- 
ing the women's institute work in Illinois. 

Conclusions. 

The material here brought together by no means exhausts the sub- 
ject. Indeed, it cites only a very small proportion of the papers which 

*' Ann. Rpt. Bur. Indus, and Labor Statis. Me., 24 (1910), pp. 311-393. 



19 1 2] State and Municipal Documents 73 

might be mentioned and indicates only a few of the uses which may be 
made of state and municipal documents. However, the illustrations 
selected are perhaps sufficiently numerous to make clear to the stu- 
dent of institution management and of other branches of Home Eco- 
nomics the value of literature of this character. 

It would without doubt be conceded that the class of literature 
under consideration is generally neglected, and if we are also agreed 
that it is valuable, it logically follows that some method should be 
devised for collecting and making use of the material. If students 
could be induced by their instructors to look over regularly and sys- 
tematically the public documents of all sorts received in the Hbraries 
to which they have access and list articles which they consider of value, _ 
and perhaps abstract some of the more important papers, they would 
gain knowledge as to methods of really using libraries as well as special 
information of use in connection with their work. If such a plan were 
followed in a number of institutions, and some method could be found 
for publishing the bibliographies and notes, the work might be made 
of general use. 

Then too, it would be of great value in training the student if he were 
assigned some topic for special study, for an essay, or for a thesis, 
which would necessitate consultation of public documents and other 
literature too often passed by for the more readily accessible text-book 
and general work of reference. Some one, at least, of our large and 
well equipped colleges or universities might well assign to one of its 
librarians the task of collecting documents of the sort under consider- 
ation and preparing bibliographies of publications and articles of inter- 
est to its Home Economics department. 

In Home Economics, as in all other lines of work, we need laboratory 
research and other advanced work. It is also true that progress would 
be more easily made and more would be accomplished if we were thor- 
oughly familiar with what had been done in the past and recorded for 
our information. The person who has the patience to collect and digest 
data already reported and made available will often render as great 
and as permanent service to his chosen subject as the successful 
investigator. He has an advantage in that he does not require 
expensive laboratory equipment, but only books and paper and pen- 
cil. Even the books he need not buy if he works with those we have 
been considering, for States and cities will in almost every case wil- 
lingly send them gratis to libraries on request and very often to indi- 
viduals. 



74 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

PRINCIPLES OF MANAGEMENT APPLIED TO 
SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT. 

Royal R. Keeley. 
Tabor Manufacturing Company, Philadelphia. 

Under the present day method of scientific management, industrial 
plants are increasing their output, raising their wage schedule, and 
lowering the sale price of their product. 

This strikes at the root of the high cost of living. Increased pro- 
duction of necessities and increased wages with which to buy them 
means better conditions for the employee and better business for the 
employer. 

The change is being wrought by expert direction of work. The 
wastefulness of the old method, which left organization of work to 
untrained workers, was first recognized by Dr. Frederick W. Taylor. 
Scientific management is based on his experiments in the best method 
of doing given pieces of work. 

Specialists are in charge of outlining and apportioning tasks, and of 
reducing instructions to writing wherever possible. The task and 
bonus system, which is fundamental in scientific management, con- 
sists in paying the workman a reward or bonus for doing a specified 
quantity of work in a specified way. 

Scientific management does not aim to obtain excessive speed, but 
to eliminate waste of time and strength. It cultivates in the workman 
mental alertness and self-confidence through accurate work. He does 
not work harder but more efficiently. 

The system saves the management a mass of detail. 

Educational institutions are as yet far behind industrial plants in 
scientific management, while their possibilities for improvement are 
even greater. The various departments should be correlated ; ofiice 
routine should be standardized; the purchase and handHng of supplies 
should be reduced to a system. Useless labor should be eliminated 
in all routine work. The efficiency of buildings and equipment should 
be extended through longer hours of use. 

We have no administration in our colleges and universities as this 
term is applied in industrial organizations, except in our football 
teams. They achieve alertness, dexterity, and activity through motion 
study, team work, and attention to health and food. Our institutions 
as a whole would gain by similar organization. 



1 91 2] Market Inspection Work 75 

Bibliography suggested by Mr. Keeley's paper: Van Nostrand Co., 
New York City: Gilbreth, Motion Study; McGraw Hill Co., New 
York City: Taylor, Principles of Management and Shop Management; 
Going, Principles of Industrial Engineering; Evans, Scientific Manage- 
ment; Gantt, Work, Wages and Profit; Day, Industrial Plants; 
Engineering Magazine, New York City: Brander, Scientific Manage- 
ment. 



MARKET INSPECTION WORK CARRIED ON BY THE 
WOMEN'S MUNICIPAL LEAGUE. 

Amy Aldis Bradley. 

Chairman Market Committee, Women's Municipal League, Boston. 

The Market Committee of the Women's Municipal League of Bos- 
ton about two and a half years ago made a preliminary investigation 
into the condition of the markets and provision shops in Boston, 
with a view to undertaking further work for their improvement. 

The best shops were found, in the main, to be clean and sanitary, 
but the shops in the poorer parts of the town were often very dirty 
and sometimes disgustingly so. It was common to find walls incrusted 
with dried blood or fish scales, floors thick with dust and dirt, mingled 
with scraps of meat, feathers, rotten vegetables, and fruit skins, and 
the corners piled high with wood, old clothing, newspapers, and rub- 
bish. In some cases, when sweeping was attempted, dust, garbage, 
and all was thrown into closets, where it remained indefinitely. Liv- 
ing rooms frequently opened out of these shops, and in these dirt, 
disorder, and smells added to the unsanitary conditions. The board 
of health, after conference with the market committee, gave the ap- 
pointment of an unpaid market inspector to a woman selected by the 
Committee, her salary for three months being provided by the League 
and South End House. 

The object of the League was to show the value of inspection 
which should be thorough and which should aim at the education of 
both dealers and consumers in the importance of cleanliness. 

The need of this education is shown by the following incident: 
During a visit of our inspector, a shopkeeper was selling soda water to 
a group of school children, twenty of whom drank in succession from 
one unwashed glass. She remonstrated, and with a desire to please 



76 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

her the man seized the glass and rinsed it in water that had just been 
used for scrubbing the floor. 

In spite, however, of the difficulties arising from the ignorance of 
the shop keepers, our inspector succeeded in bringing about some im- 
provement in about two-thirds of the seventy shops under inspection. 
This was effected mainly through tact and kindliness. Our inspector 
seldom had to use the authority of her official position, although with- 
out it her work would have been much harder. As an illustration of 
the improvement which she brought about I may mention one shop 
where the proprietor was at first somewhat unresponsive, although, 
at our inspector's suggestion, he gathered from the corners of his shop 
enough garbage to fill five barrels. A few weeks later, after she had 
made him several visits, he showed her with pride his shelves covered 
with clean white oil cloth. 

Through South End House our inspector had opportunities for 
interesting women who buy at the shops and was able to influence them 
as well as the dealers. The result of this inspection was so satisfac- 
tory that we later engaged an inspector by the year who was given the 
same appointment by the Boston Board of Health. She is still work- 
ing for us. 

In the autimin of 1909, at the Boston 191 5 Exposition, the Market 
Committee had an exhibit — showing models of a dirty shop and a 
clean one. This awakened so much interest that later in the winter, 
in conjunction with other exhibits of the Women's Municipal League, 
it was shown at 13 settlement houses and the following year at 
public schools. The interest shown in our exhibit was amazing. At 
one of the settlements over 1000 persons visited it. Talks were given 
and so many of the poor women living in tenements showed keen inter- 
est in the condition of the provision shops in their neighborhoods that 
the market committee formed the plan of organizing groups of these 
women in different parts of the city to do active work among the mar- 
kets. The members of these groups, called "tens," keep watch of 
the shops at which they trade and send reports to their respective 
chairmen, who, in turn, pass them on to the inspector, and she xasits 
them herself as often as is necessary. The form of repoit is as follows: 

Name of shop 

Name of proprietor 

Address 

I . Is there a place where those from whom you buy can wash their hands? 



19 1 2] AT arket Inspection Work 77 

2. Is the food protected from dust and flies? 

(A) By glass? 

(B) By netting? 

(C) Does the netting touch the food? 

3. Are the doors and windows screened? ' 

4. Is all the food raised 18 inches from the floor? 

5. Do the buyers handle the bread, candy, etc.? 

6. Is the milk kept in cans? 

7. Would the floor soil j'our dress? 

8. Is there a living room back of the store? 

Is there a toilet on the same floor as the store? 

9. Are receptacles provided for the garbage? 

10. Remarks on cleanliness 

Reported by 

Address 

Date 

It is now about a year and a half since these groups, or "tens," of 
women were started and there are now 187 women belonging to them. 
They are most helpful in spreading interest and knowledge among 
buyers, and their influence undoubtedly extends far beyond the women 
who compose them. As they increase in numbers they will, we beUeve, 
prove a potent means of educating the buying public. 

In markets, as in governments, what the people want they will get. 
Shops cannot be expected to provide more than their customers 
demand. If the public is satisfied with dirty shops as with dirty 
governments it will get them. . When it persistently demands some- 
thing better it will get something better. We therefore feel that we 
are right in lading our emphasis on education — the education of both 
the buyer and seller in the principles of cleanliness and sanitation and 
their practical appHcation. The response to our efforts in this direc- 
tion has been far beyond our expectations. Interest in the cleanliness 
of pro\'ision shops among all classes of women has been amazing and 
we find this interest spreading along other and kindred lines of work 
which we have recently undertaken, such as the investigation of candy 
shops and ice cream factories. 

At the present time about 450 shops are on our Hst, and of these 320 
are frequently inspected. 

An important part of our work is to have a thorough understand- 
ing of the actual methods of handling food in Boston and also what 
the methods should be. Information as to the ideal methods is not 
easy to obtain. So far as we can find there is hardly any pubUshed 
information on the subject, and no authorities. The task before us 



78 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

reminds me of a story which I have heard attributed to Mr. W. D. 
Howells. Mr. and Mrs. Howells were having a discussion as to the 
proper use of a word. Mr. Howells had used it in a sense which Mrs. 
Howells did not think correct. "Look it up in the dictionary," said 
Mrs. Howells. The first example of its use that Mr. Howells read 
from the dictionary gave it exactly as he used it. " Who is the author- 
ity given?" said Mrs. Howells. "W. D, Howells," said he. So it 
is with markets. We must be our own authorities. We must our- 
selves gather a body of knowledge based upon what we see with our 
own eyes and hear with our own ears, combined, of course, with all 
we can gather as to methods in use elsewhere and ail the incidental 
help we can get from scientific men as well as from practical dealers. 
The fact, however, that there is no collated body of experience to guide 
us should make us especially cautious in recommending changes. 

As to the actual conditions in Boston, we already have a fairly clear 
idea. The greatest difficulties are presented by the small shops in 
poor neighborhoods, such as I have already described. These shops 
are not only sometimes filthy, but the food is left uncovered; it is 
black with flies in summer; it is fingered by customers with dirty hands, 
who punch holes in the crust of the loaves with their black fingernails 
to test the bread, and who turn over the cakes and feel the meat, 
fruit, and candy. In some instances where dealers have a better 
standard than their customers, and have tried to keep their goods 
covered, they have found that sales were thereby lost. One dealer 
put up a fence across his shop to keep his customers from handling the 
food, but some of them objected so strenuously that he had to let them 
inside. Fortunately in other cases improved cleanliness has led to 
improved trade, so the outlook is not wholly discouraging. 

It is not surprising that these shops are sometimes exceedingly 
dirty, when one considers the small profits made. A fruit business 
netting $io a week is considered "good." When people are barely 
able to eke out a living, even the small outlay required for ordinary 
cleanliness is difficult to provide. The great hindrance to sanitary 
conditions is that the small shops are so numerous and competition 
so keen that the owners barely make a living and really cannot afiord 
to keep clean. In the interest of the public health, the number of 
small shops should be diminished by helping the poorest shop keepers 
into other occupations and preventing others from taking their places. 
Done in this way and gradually, the change would not result in hard- 
ship to the helpless, but would give them time and opportunity to 
adjust themselves. 



1912] Concerning Institutional Management 79 

We do not yet know enough to form an opinion as to just how this 
could be brought about. Licensing may help towards the solution 
by obliging each shop to maintain a certain standard of cleanliness in 
order to keep its license. This is already done where milk is sold, and 
it seems as if it might be feasible to extend the plan to all provision 
shops. 

In some foreign cities central markets are maintained in different 
districts by the municipahty, but whether this plan, carried further 
and excluding all other provision shops, would suit American life is 
at least an open question. That plan has not been tried here, so far 
as I know. It is clear that in Boston the number of market inspectors 
is wholly inadequate. There are, at present, but three for between 
3000 and 4000 provision shops. In order to make the rounds as often 
as they are supposed to, each inspector would have to visit 70 shops 
a day — manifestly a physical impossibility. More inspectors — enough 
inspectors to make the work educational and not merely perfunctory 
— is one of the first necessities. 

The most important factor, however, in any improvement, must be 
the active interest of every housekeeper and mother in the community. 

CONCERNING INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT. 
Sarah Louise Arnold. 

Dean of Simmons College. 

Instruction in institutional management is still in its infancy. 
In our conferences we must either prophesy in defence of our favorite 
theories or report progress in our varied experiments. We have not yet 
accumulated suflficient experience to enable us to generalize with con- 
viction. I have chosen to give a running report of the experience at 
Simmons College, first with reference to the course of study outlined, 
and, second, to the demands which have come from the field. 

It has been evident from the beginning that the institutional 
worker most in demand is the woman of maturity and experience, who 
has developed in other fields the quaUties which are essential to suc- 
cess in institutional administration. It is also evident that such 
women are hkely to desire a brief course of instruction, inasmuch as 
their need of self maintenance is usually pressing; and further, the 
time which is given to study necessarily deprives them of income and 
thus augments the cost of instruction. 



8o The Journal of Home Economics [February 

For the present, therefore, it is clear that the one year course in 
institutional management will be favored by the students, and upon 
this our attention for the time being must be centered. 

The course which Simmons College has offered for the past few years 
has brought together in each succeeding year women from twenty-five 
to fifty years of age, — school teachers, bookkeepers, secretaries, house- 
keepers, and others, who wished a change of occupation, including 
many who for the first time faced the necessity of self maintenance 
outside their own homes. Experience with these groups has taught 
us to believe that the minimum age requirement for such courses 
should be twenty-five and the maximum forty. Exceptions may of 
course be made in favor of candidates of marked ability and good per- 
sonality, but in average cases these age limits seem essential. 

Among the many desirable subjects of instruction we must choose 
a group which is adapted to class instruction and which meets the 
general need. Thus far this group has included a general course in 
chemistry; in the physiology of nutrition; in sanitary science: techni- 
cal instruction in cooking, in household management, and in account- 
ing; observation and practice in the college dormitories and lunch- 
room, to which have been added opportunities for additional observa- 
tion and practice outside the college; and lastly, instruction in market- 
ing and other essentials of institutional administration by the house 
superintendent, who has charge of the class. 

It is evident that the groups occupied in practice under expert super- 
vision must necessarily be small. For obvious reasons the ordinary 
administration of the college or the dormitory cannot be handed over 
to students in practice to a degree that would interfere with the pur- 
pose for which the dormitory was created. The problem which always 
appears in practice schools where the apprentice is being trained ap- 
pears also in this instance. The dormitory can never be first a school 
and second a dormitory. The class must therefore be adjusted to 
the practice which can be secured without disturbing too much the 
routine of household administration. Thus far, groups of two have 
been assigned to regular service in dining room, kitchen, or corridor, 
under the direction of the assistant superintendent, and other similar 
groups have taken turns in meeting the responsibilities of the lunch- 
room, also under supervision. As these groups become expert, they 
take charge of different "functions," — college teas, special dinners, 
special luncheons served to groups of students or instructors, recep- 
tions, and finally, the various social events attending the commence- 



igiz] Concerning Institutional Management 8i 

ment season. If the class remains until the dormitories are closed 
and the lunchroom put in order for the vacation, they have added 
valuable lessons. 

Experience thus far goes to prove that the observation and practice 
under guidance, with interpretation by an expert, reveal in miniature 
many of the problems of institutional administration, and thus 
shorten the experience of "trial and error" which the novice would 
othenvise encounter. This practice, to be valuable, should therefore 
include typical experiences and should always be wisely interpreted. 
The opportunity for interpretation comes in the conferences with the 
house superintendent, which naturally increase in value as the class 
accumulates experience. Reports from workers indicate that this 
experience has enabled them to enter upon the work with greater 
intelligence and to make more rapid progress than could have been 
possible without their training. 

It very soon became evident that the college could not afford suffi- 
cient practice, for in the nature of things it offered one type of exper- 
ience, a homogeneous group, a known income, certain fixed condi- 
tions, and one type of equipment. It was with gratitude, therefore, 
that the college accepted the offer of the Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union, and sent its students to observe and to practice 
in their lunchrooms, and particularly to avail themselves of the exper- 
ience gained in the preparation and administration of school lunch- 
rooms. This opportunity led the students into new fields, where they 
met a public demand and dealt with new equipment and a new and 
illuminating set of conditions. Already we are learning that, other 
things being equal, the student is well prepared when she has been 
able to partake of the experience of differing institutions. 

At this point it seems clear that instruction given after practical 
experience in different institutions would have much greater value 
than that which is given to the student who has had no institutional 
experience. And this leads to the question whether it would not be 
well to form a course divided into three parts: (i) preliminary instruc- 
tion; (2) practical experience outside the institution which gives the 
instruction; (3) a report of experience, conference, interpretation, and 
instruction. If the institutional students could have the same alter- 
nation of study, practice, and interpretation which is possible in the 
normal school, where the young teacher is being trained, her advantage 
might be as great as that which accrues to the teacher. 

This leads to the suggestion that two certificates might be given to 



82 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

students who undertake the course in institutional management — the 
first a tentative certificate, stating that the student has completed 
the course of instruction; the second a final or senior certificate, given 
for assured success, with a written or oral report which has been 
accepted by the department. Such differentiation of certificates would 
enable the department to differentiate candidates and would at the 
same time tend to increase the number of valuable reports from the 
field. 

The demands upon the department go to show a wide variety of 
opportunity in institutional administration, which no single course 
of instruction could adequately meet. One might definitely prepare 
students to administer college dormitories; the same student, however, 
will be confronted by requests to become a dietitian, in the sense of 
adviser concerning diets; — or she will be asked to buy, cook, and serve 
diets and teach classes of nurses at the same time; — or she may be 
urged to take complete charge of a lunchroom, a tea room, the stew- 
ardship of a hospital, or the administration of a children's home; — 
she may be asked to mother and manage a Welcome House; she may 
be called upon to administer the house of residence of the Y. W. C. A., 
or the small community which is the modern form of the orphan asy- 
lum. It is perfectly clear that here is opportunity not only for in- 
struction in the essentials of dietaries, but economics must dominate 
the situation, while social service is indispensable. A college-trained 
woman in the new sense will find all the opportunities she may desire 
in this varied field — abundant demand for leadership, for education, 
for executive, for initiative, and for good sense. 

Letters of inquiry invariably place personahty first, experience 
second, and training third. These three essentials, all right, give us 
the ideal woman, who shall administer the ideal institution. 

The ideal course gives us first, practice, to learn the alphabet of 
institutional life, (and this should be genuine practice in a real insti- 
tution, on the individual responsibility). This prepares the student 
to understand and profit by instruction, which is the second step. 
The third step is practice again, this time illumined by the previous 
training. The fourth step is a return to instruction for the interpre- 
tation of practice. Now we are ready for the thesis, for the diploma, 
and for successful administration. 



1912] Business Session 83 

BUSINESS SESSION. 

At the business session Mrs. Melvil Dewey was elected honorary 
chairman, Miss Adelaide M. Nutting, chairman, and Miss Martha 
Van Rensselaer, Secretary-treasurer. The existing committees were 
continued with power to add to their numbers. Other committees 
may be appointed by the chairman as needed. 

The committee upon resolutions, consisting of Prof. Henry C. 
Wright, Miss MacMillan, and Mrs. Moran reported the following 
resolution: 

The institution economics section of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion expresses its keen appreciation of the hospitality accorded by Mr. and Mrs. 
Dewey and other trustees of the Lake Placid Club to the members of the Associa- 
tion individually, and for the accommodations for public meeting which, owing to 
the unusual beauty of the surroundings, have made the occasion of the conference 
especially pleasurable as well as profitable. 

By rising vote, this resolution was unanimously adopted. 

A special committee, consisting of Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Miss Nut- 
ting, Miss Watson, Miss Van Rensselaer, and Mr. Dewey, reported 
the following resolution, which was adopted unanimously by a rising 
vote: 

The institution economics section records its profound sense of loss in the death 
of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, who was pioneer, leader, and inspirer in a vitally impor- 
tant work, which has develgped in the past twelve years a hundred fold in the 
numbers actively teaching and disseminating her ideals of home and family life 
which she termed euthenics, or the new science of right living. 

As representing many institutions we reaUze that the influence of her work for 
many years to come will have great practical value in securing greater efficiency 
of administration. 

Equally with our professional loss do we feel that there has left us a personal 
friend who always gave generously of her best to every one who sought her sympathy 
and counsel. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE 

Dec. I, igii. 
I. Food. 

Report on the Study of Meat Proteins. R. C. Moulton. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. 
Chem., Circ. 70. Difficulties in the use of the Kjeldahl method. 

Market Classes and Grades of Meat. Louis D. Hall. Illinois Agr. Exp. Station, 
Bulletin 147, July 1910. Profusely illustrated. 

Fresh Beef and Mutton in the Philippines. Report of the Commissary General, 
pp. 12-14 (1911). Report of experimental studies. 

Deterioration of Eggs, as Shown by Changes in the Moisture Content. A. D. 
Greenlee. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem., Circular 83. 

The Effect of Present Methods of Handling Eggs on the Industry and the Prod- 
uct. M. E. Pennington and H. C. Pierce. U. S. Dept. Agr., Yearbook 1910. 
Separate 552. 

Aging of Flour and its Effect on Digestion. J. A. Wesener and G. L. Teller. 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., December, pp. 912-919. 

The Chemical Changes Produced in Flour by Bleaching. G. W. Monier-Wil- 
liams. Jour. Soc. Chem. Ind., 30, p. 568. 

Winter Emmer. M. A. Carlton. U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bulletin 466. 

Changes Taking Place During the Spoilage of Tomatoes, with Methods for 
Detecting Spoilage in Tomato Products. R. F. Bacon and P. B. Dunbar. U. S. 
Dept. Agr., Bur. Chemistry, Circular 78. 

A New Method for Calculating Water in Canned Tomatoes and the Detection 
of Added Water to Canned Tomatoes. Leon A. Congdon. Jour. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., October, pp. 744-747. 

The Estimation of Total Sohds in Milk by the Use of Formulas. R. H. Shaw and 
C. H. Eckles. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. An. Industry, Bui. 134, pp. 1-31. 

Butter: Pure and Unadulterated, Practical Methods of Determining. Hon. 
Joel G. Winkjee. Am. Food Journal, September, pp. 52-54. 

Methods and Results of Paraffining Cheese. C. F. Doane. U. S. Dept. Agr. 
Bur. of Animal Industry, Circular 181. 

Buttermilk Cheesemaking at the Creamery. J. L. Sammis. Wisconsin Agr. 
Exp. Station, Bulletin 211, May, 1911. 

Improved Methods for making Cottage and Neufchatel Cheese. North Carolina 
Agr. Exp. Station, Bulletin 210, September, 1910. 

Direct Measurements of the Osmotic Pressure of Casein in Alkaline Solutions. 
Moore, Roaf and Webster. Biochemical Journal, October, 191 1, p. no. 

Report on Vinegar. R. W. Balcom. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bur. Chem., Bull. 137, 

P- 57- 

Cider Vinegar. Frank E. Mott. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., October, pp. 
747-750. A method of detection of certain forms of adulteration. 

84 



19 1 2] Bibliography of Periodicals 85 

Report on Spices. A. F. Seeker. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bur. Chem , Bui. 137, 
p. 80. 

The Uses of Spices as Preservatives. C. Hoffmann and Alice C. Evans. Jour. 
Indus, and Eng. Chem., November, 191 1, pp. 835-837; Jour. Home Economics, 
December, 191 1, pp. 452-459. 

Detection of Benzoic Acid in Coffee Extract. H. C. Lythgoe and C. E. March, 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., November, 191 1, p. 842. 

Removing Caffein from Roasted Coffee. Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3708. 

A Simple Method for the Qualitative Detection of Caffein, Salicylic and Benzoic 
Acids. A. Nestler. Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3705. From Arch. Chem. 
Mikros., 4, 225-231. 

Determination of Malic Acid. P. B. Dunbar and R. F. Bacon. Jour. Indus, 
and Eng. Chem., November, 191 1, pp. 826-830. 

The Determination of Benzoic Acid. Folin and Flanders. Jour. Am. Chem. 
Soc, October, 191 1, pp. 1622-1627. 

Some Objections to the Use of Alum Baking Powder. Wm. J. Gies. Jour. Am. 
Med. Assn., September 2, 19 10, pp. 816-821. 

Manufacture of Yeast. Sc. Am., December 2, 191 1, pp. 404, 506-7. Semi- 
popular. 

Tin Salts in Canned Food and Low Acid Content. (With special reference to 
canned shrimp.) W. D. Bigelow and R. F. Bacon. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem., 
Circ. 79; Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., November, 1911, pp. 832-834. 

Calorimetric Determination of Copper in Preserves. H. Serger. Chem. Abs., 
November 20, p. 3704. From Chem. Ztg. 35, 935. 

Chemical Food Preservatives. H. L. Harris. Dietetic and Hygienic Gaiette, 
September, pp. 530-542. 

Some Kitchen Tests to Detect Adulterations in Common Foods. E. H. S. 
Bailey. Bull. Dept. Food and Drug Inspection of Missouri, 3, 191 1, No. 1-3, 
P- 43- 

Experiments with Paper Bag Cookery. Culinary Editor. Good Housekeeping, 
October, p. 564. 

Cooking in Paper Bags. Good Housekeeping, September, pp. 418-420. 

Report on Colors. W. E. Mathewson. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bur Chem., Bull. 
137, P- 52- 

2. Nutrition. 

The Respiration Calorimeter and Results of Experiments with It. C. F. Lang- 
worthy and R. D. Milner. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Yearbook 1910, Separate 542. 

Some Desirable Results following Water Drinking with Meals. P. B. Hawk. 
Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol, and Med., 8, 1911, p. 36. 

Ungastronomic America — The Theory of Wholesome Eating Multiplying the 
Pleasures of the Table — The Future of Cooking and Eating. Henry T. Finck. 
Cent. Mag., November, December, January, 1911-12. 

The Care and Feeding of Children, Part II. Flora Rose. Cornell Reading 
Course for Farmers' Wives, Food Series, No. 2. 

The Metabolism, Directly Determined, of Healthy Children during Sleep. J. 
Rowland. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol, and Med., 8, pp. 63-64. 



86 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Metabolism Experiments with Albulactin on Artificially nourished Infants. 
Karl Bornstein. Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3711 (from Arch. Kinderheilk, 
56, pp. 16-26). 

Nutrition and Growth. H. Aron. Philippine Jour. Science, 6, pp. 1-52; abs. 
in Chem. Abs., September 10, p. 2879. 

The Adaptability of the Animal Organism to a Superabimdant Food Supply. 
E. Grafe and D. Graham. Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3700. From Zeit. 
Physiol Chem., 73, pp. 1-67. 

The R61e of Different Proteins in Nutrition and Growth. T. B. Osborne and L. 
B. Mendel. Science, November 24, pp. 722-732. 

Protein as a Factor in the Nutrition of Animals. I. A Study of the Physical 
Constants of Fats from Swine. A. D. Emmett and E. C. Carroll. Jour. Biol. 
Chem., Q, 191 1, pp. 23-25. 

New Studies on the Action of Animal Proteins upon Vegetarians. P. Albertoni 
and F. Rossi. Chem. Abs., September 20, 191 1, p. 3106. 

The Metabolism of Development. III. Qualitative Effects of Pregnancy on the 
Protein Metabolism of the Dog. Murlin. Am. Jour. Physiol., October, pp. 422- 

454- 

Studies in Nutrition. I. The Utilization of the Proteins of Wheat. L. B. 
Mendel and M. S. Fine. Jour. Biol. Chem., November, 191 1, No. 4, pp. 303-325, 

Studies in Nutrition. II. The Utilization of the Proteins of Barley. L. B. 
Mendel and M. S. Fine. Jour. Biol. Chem., November, 191 1, No. 4, pp. 339-343* 

Experimental Studies on Creatine and Creatinine. L. B . Mendel and W. C. Rose. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., October, No. 3, pp. 213-270. 

Feeding Experiments with Isolated Food Substances, I, II. T. B. Osborne and 
L. B. Mendel. Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1911. 

Studies on the Metabolism of Meat, I. Klotz. Chem. Abs., September 20, 
p. 3107. 

The Chemical Energy Transformation in the Dog after Ingestion of Different 
Quantities of Meat. H. B. WiUiams, J. A. Riche, and G. Lusk. Proc. Soc. Exp. 
Biol, and Med., 8, 191 1, pp. 61-62. 

The Digestibility of White of Egg as Influenced by the Temperature at which it 
is Coagulated. P. Frank. Jour. Biol. Chem., 9, pp. 463, 470. 

Nutritive Value of White and Standard Bread. Hill. British Med. Jour., 191 1, 
No. 2627, pp. 1068-1069. 

Influence of Different Sugars on the Digestive Action of Enzymes. H. Scior- 
tino. Chem. Abs., September 20, p. 31 12. 

Concerning Nucleases. Walter Jones. Jour. Biol. Chem., April, pp. 129-137. 

On the Physiological Agents which are Concerned in the Nuclein Fermentation, 
with Special Reference to Four Independent Desamidases. Walter Jones. Jour. 
Biol. Chem., April, pp. 169-180. 

Mucic Acid and Intermediary Carbohydrate Metabolism. W. C. Rose. Jour. 
Biol. Chem., October, 1911, No. 2, pp. 123-138. 

The R6le of Lipoids in Nutrition. Joiir. Amer. Med. Assn. November 4, 191 1, 

p. 1540- 

Influence of Saccharin on the Nutrition and Health of Man. Herter and Folin. 
U. S. Dept. of Agr., Office of the Secretary, Report 94. 

Digestion and Absorption of Several Varieties of Raw Starch in the Normal 



1 9 1 2] Bibliography of Periodicals 8 7 

and Diseased Gastrointestinal Tract. L. Tofanow. Chem. Ahs., September 20, 
1911, p. 3107. 

On the Combined Action of Muscle Plasma and Pancreas Extract on Glucose 
and Maltose. P. A. Levene and G. M. Meyer. Jour. Biol. Chem., April, pp. 
97-107. 

The Balance of Acid-forming and Base-forming Elements in Foods, and its 
Relation to Ammonia Metabolism. H. C. Sherman and A. O. Gettler. Proc. 
Soc. Exp. Biol. Med., 8, 191 1, p. 1 19-120; abs. in Chem. Ahs., November 10, p. 
3600. 

On the Alleged Formation of Lactic Acids in Muscle during Autolysis. W. M. 
Fletcher. Jour. Physiology, November 20, 191 1, p. 286. 

The R6le of Salts in the Preservation of Life. Jacques Loeb. Science, Novem- 
ber 17, pp. 653-665. 

Calcium, Magnesium, and Phosphorus Metabolism in Health and in Gout. 
P. Ciuffini. Chem. Abs., September 20, 191 1, p. 3108. 

Laboratory Studies of Pepsin, Pancreatin, and Combinations of these Ferments. 
A. Zimmerman. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., October, pp. 750-753. 

Contributions to the Knowledge of Lecithin. Robt. Cohn. Chem. Ahs., 'i^ovtm- 
ber 10, p. 3598. 

Heat of Combustion of Compounds of Physiological Importance. Emory and 
Benedict. Am. Jour. Physiol., 28, p. 301. 

Some Energy Factors of the Urine Excreted after Severe MuscxJar Exercise. 
Higgins and Benedict. Amer. Jour. Physiology, September i, 191 1, p. 291. 

Influence of Colloids on Diuresis. Knowlton. Jour. Physiology, November 
20, 1911, p. 219. 

Rickets in Its Early Stages and the Best Treatment to Prevent Deformities. 
J. W. Cokenower. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., November 4, 191 1, p. 1506. 

The Treatment of the Arthritides. L. Litchfield. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 
October 21, pp. 1335-1338. Dietetic treatment of gout, rheimaatic fever, etc. 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

A Study of Carbon in Sewage and Sewage Purification. H. W. Clark and G. O. 
Adams. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., October, pp. 738-739. 

Bacteriological Examination of Shucked and Shelled Oysters. Geo. W. Stiles. 
Jour. Am Pub. Health Assoc, September, 1911. 

Pasteurization of Milk in the Sealed and Final Package. Jour. Am. Puh. Health 
Assn., September, 191 1. 

Bacteriological Investigations of Commercial Ice Cream in the City of Boston. 
Edith A. Beckler and Delphine J. Rusosoit. Jour. Am. Puh. Health. Assoc, August, 
1911. 

Garbage Receptacles. A. M. Hall. Jour. Am. Puh. Health Assoc, July, 1911. 

Investing for Health. William J. Cromie, Instructor in GjTnnastics, Univ. of 
Petmsylvania. Outlook, October 28, 191 1, pp. 479-484. Popular Directions 
for simple g>-mnastics and personal hygiene. 

The Experiment of a Woman \Vhere Clean Milk Can be Found. The Ware- 
lands Dairy. Boston Cooking School Mag., October. 



88 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The Bacteriolog3' of Ice. E. O. Jordan. Ice Trade Journal, 42, No. i, p. 31. 

The Washerwoman's Part in the World's Sanitation. Bertha H. Smith. Modern 
Sanitation, September, pp. 329-335. Illustrations of washing in various parts of 
the world. 

Street Dust and Street Cleaning in Relation to Health, Comfort, and Economy. 
J. H. Landis. Monthly Bull., Ohio Stale Board of Health, i, 191 1, N0.3, p. 65. 

Public Telephone: Germs' Paradise. T. W. Hillier. Bull. Texas State Board of 
Health, 5, 191 1, No. 9, p. 24. 

The Dust Menace and Municipal Disease. H. S. Anders. Jour. Amer. Med, 
Assn., November 4, 1911, p. 1524. Popular. 

Probable Tapeworm Infection of Northern Michigan Waters. Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assn., November 11, 1911, p. 1621. 

Intestinal Parasites Found in Individuals Residing in the Northwest. W. E. 
Sistrunk. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., November 4, 1911, p. 1507. Semitechnical. 

Industrial Diseases. Paul S. Pierce. North Am. Review., October, pp. 529- 
540. 

Venereal Disease and its Influence. J. H. Cunningham Jr. Jour. Am. Pub. 
Health Assn., June, 1911. 

4. Education and Social Work. 

The Girl of To-morrow — What the School will do for Her. B. R. Andrews. 
Technical Education Bulletin, No. 9, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Industrial Education. F. H. Sykes, F. G. Bonser, and H. C. Brandon. Teachers 
College Record, September, 191 1. 

Fundamental Values in Industrial Education. Frederick G. Bonser. Technical 
Education Bulletin, No. 10, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Conservation and Home Life: Housekeeping the Greatest Industry. Mary 
Pierce Van Zile. Kansas Farmer, 49, No. 44, p. 2. 

One View of Domestic Science. Mary Leal Harkness. Atlantic Monthly, October 
191 1, pp. 474-479- 

Syllabus on Household Management. Mary Louise Furst. Technical Educa- 
tion Bulletin, No. 8, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Saving Babies. Survey, September 2, 1911, p. 769. Popular. 

Annotated List of Text and Reference Books for Training Schools for Nurses. 
Technical Education Bulletin, No. 11, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

5. Textiles and Clothing. 

The Housework Dress. Mrs. Ralston. Ladies Home Journal, November, 1911, 
p. 31. Attractive designs for home-made housework dresses. 

Dressmaking Made Easy. Eleanor Chambers. Delineator, December, 19x1. 

Practical Garments for Many Ages and Uses. Delineator, December, 1911, p. 
464. 

Household Embroideries in Several New Forms. Mildred Chapman. House- 
keeper, December, 191 1, p. 29. Slight variations of ordinary stitches, concise, 
illustrated, gives prices of stamped articles. 



1912] Bibliography of Periodicals 89 

The Making of Bobbin Laces. Upholsterer, November 15, 191 1, p. 35. 

Rag Rug. House and Garden, December, 191 1, p. 391. 

Buyers' Glossary of Upholstery. Upholsterer, November 15, 191 1, p. 42. 

Determination of Linen and Cotton. Herzog. Translated by Ellen A. Beers. 
Technical Education Bulletin, No. 7, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Felted Wool under the Microscope. Leo Pinagel. Textile World Record, Nov- 
ember, 1911, p. 21. 

Defects in Knit Cloth. "Hoosier." Textile World Record, November, 191 1, 
p. U2. A description of the defects that are liable to arise in knit goods. 

Improvements in Cotton Bleaching. Walter S. Williams. Textile World 
/?ccortf, November, 1911, p. 259. Various processes of the art of bleaching by 
modern methods. 

A Handbook of Weaves. G. H. Oelsner. Textile World Record, November, 
191 1, p. 221. A description of stitched rib weave and combination ribs. 

Practical Dyeing. Renmark. Textile World Record, November, 191 1, p. 260. 

6. Miscellaneous. 

The Cost of the Cranberry Sauce. Chas. L. Chute. Survey, December 2, 191 1, 
p. 1281. 

Some Work — Hazards which go into a Loaf of Bread. Don D. Lescohier. Sur- 
vey, September 2, 191 1, p. 804. Popular. 

Rooms in Paper. Nama A. Lathe and Esther Szold. Manual Training Maga- 
zine, October, pp. 1-8. 

The Cost of Living in the Twelfth Century. Dana C. Munro. Proc.Am. 
Philosophical Soc, 50. 1911, No. 201, p. 497. 

A Steam Cooker which may be Attached to Steam Pipes. Texas Farmer, 32, 
No. 28, p. 10. 

The Prices of Farm Products. H. C. Taylor. Wisconsin Agr. Exp. Station 
Bulletin 209, May, 191 1. 

Electrical Effects Accompanying the Decomposition of Organic Compounds. 
M. C. Potter. Proc. Roy Soc. 191 1, B. 84, p. 260-275. Technical. A discussion 
of the electrical energy liberated by the action of yeast, diastase, and other micro- 
organisms. 

Conservation of the Solar Energy in our Food Supply. Jour. Amer. Med. Astn., 
November 18, 1911, p. 1700. 



MINUTES OF THE FOURTH ANNUAL MEETING. 
AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

The Fourth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association was called to order on Thursday, December 28, 191 1, 
at 9:30 a.m. at the Henry D. Cooke School, Washington, D. C. The 
President of the Association, Miss Isabel Bevier, was in the chair 
and in the absence of the secretary- treasurer, Dr. B. R. Andrews, H. 
L. Kjiight of Washington, D. C, was designated acting secretary. 

Miss Bevier opened the meeting by introducing Dr. W. M. David- 
son, superintendent of public schools of the District of Columbia, 
who deUvered the formal address of welcome. Following this address, 
Miss Bevier made the following response: 

Home Economics in 1912. 

"I am sure we are all thinking at this hour not so much of those 
who are present as of the one who has welcomed us so many times and 
who was for so many years the guiding spirit in this Association. 
Mrs. Richards' place can not be taken by another. It will need many 
of us to accomphsh what she did single-handed and alone, and I am 
sure we all reahze the added responsibility her loss brings to each of us. 

We have come back after three years to the place in which this 
Association had its formal organization. Perhaps it is well to stop 
long enough for a backward glance over the way we have passed. 
Boston was our first mile stone, St. Louis our second. There have been 
steady accessions to our ranks, not only of individuals, but of groups, 
so that on December i our membership numbered 1078 and our affil- 
iated associations 18. Moreover, the Journal, the source of so 
many hopes and fears and labors, under the wise guidance of Mrs. 
Abel has grown steadily in favor, in interest, in helpfulness, and is 
today an exponent of the best Home Economics has to offer. All 
these are what we might call internal causes for congratulation and 
there are yet others. Home Economics has made a place for itself 
in the thought and Hfe of the people, in the newspaper world, whether 
it be the county weekly, or the city daily, or the monthly magazine. 

90 



1912] Minutes of the Fourth Annual Meeting 91 

All of them 'according to their Lights' give Home Economics a place. 
That means it is discussed by all sorts and conditions of people. 
Moreover, the Home Economics of the county weekly or of the city 
daily is quite as good as the science of the daily. That may not seem 
a great attainment, but it is really when you consider how old is science 
and how young is Home Economics. 

Home Economics has made a large place for itself in our public 
school system, the people's college. Unfortunately, I can give the sta- 
tistics of only one state, but in Illinois in the past three years the 
number of counties teaching Home Economics has increased from 27 
to 51 and the number of high schools from 42 to 96. As your repre- 
sentative I was privileged to see the place it has made for itself in the 
far West. Judging from the numbers and the enthusiasm of the pubhc 
meeting and the private conversation, one gets the impression that 
Home Economics in the mind of the CaUfomian is second only to his 
zeal for his climate and his fair land. 

East, West, and North, Home Economics is entirely respectable 
and sometimes even highly esteemed 'for its works' sake.' In the 
conservative South its place is not yet so assured. The South still 
retains the old definition for education and culture and has had less 
interest in the kind of Home Economics that is both educational and 
cultural. However, interest is now awakening and great progress is 
being made in the development of the subject. 

This survey leads to certain obvious conclusions and suggestions 
concerm'ng Home Economics. First, it has come to stay. The times 
are propitious for its development. Whether you interpret it in terms 
of vocational training, industrial training, or as neither of these, but 
as rational education for women, some form of it is making a place 
for itself in the school and the home and in the thought and life of the 
people. Evidently it has passed the popularizing stage. School 
boards need no longer be bribed with hot biscuits and well broiled 
steaks served by the children to show how ' practical' Home Economics 
is. Neither is it necessar}' for this Association to spend much time in 
by-laws and constitutions; but a greater task is theirs which calls for 
the long \dew, the clear vision, and abundant labors. To each man 
his work. To each group its work. One thing really well done, so 
shall Home Economics grow in pubUc favor and educational value. 
You know the old story of AHce in the looking glass. 'In our country 
we run not to get ahead, but to keep up.' 

There is need for research to answer the questions housekeepers 



92 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

have been asking for years. We have made a mere beginning in apply- 
ing to the food and nutrition of man the principles scientists tried 
out long ago in the feeding of lower animals. 

There is a crying need for better art for all the people. Think how 
far we are from the ideals William Morris proclaimed years ago. 
Think of the monstrous bonfires resulting if just one of his numerous 
suggestions should be followed. 'Have nothing in your houses that 
you do not know to be useful or believe to be beautiful.' We have 
made only a beginning in putting forms of beauty in our daily life. 

There is need for better economics, for wiser administration of the 
affairs of the home, for higher esthetic and ethical standards, for that 
wisdom and skill that shall enable women to see life whole and large, 
their place and part in it, and enable them to Hve above its machinery 
and beyond its petty details. Think for a moment of the familiar 
statement, Home Economics stands for a wise expenditure in the 
affairs of the home. What does that statement imply? That de- 
pends on several things — your definition of home. What is it? The 
place to go when the other places are shut? The place to sleep and 
eat in? The place to dress in to go somewhere else? The place in 
which to have company? The center about which family life revolves, 
to which they come for rest, comradeship and inspiration, the safe- 
guard of the family and the state. Reduced to simplest terms its 
material basis is a house. This suggests architectural design and con- 
struction. For in the houses we build and furnish we give perhaps 
quite unconsciously our definition of home. Further it impUes a 
knowledge of the supplies of the home — food, textile fabrics, art, 
metals, because there can not be wiser expenditure without knowledge, 
Henderson says, 'If one does not know where one wishes to go there is 
small chance of success in devising a process for getting there,' Also, 
it implies a knowledge of household processes and products. This 
means a knowledge of science, history, and hterature. 

Wise expenditure suggests a knowledge of the principles of economics. 
It is said three-fourths of all money expended is expended by women or 
for women. Why then should they not learn how to spend? 

We have only begun to make good in the program so well outhned 
for us years since by former Commissioner Brown in these prophetic 
words: 'There will be some day preparation for mother work, for 
home making, for woman's leading part in the finer forms of social 
intercourse which will do on the higher academic plane what was 



1912] Minutes of the Fourth Annual Meeting 93 

done in a more petty way generations ago in popular finishing schools 
for girls. There is to be further a serious preparation for woman's 
part in the economic, the industrial, and even the political world.' 
Women are in industry, in politics, today and I can but feel less con- 
fusion would have attended their entrance if there had been a training 
which fitted them better for these demands. We have not better 
brains than had our grandmothers, but the demands upon an educated 
woman of today and the woman of fifty years differs as greatly as the 
plumbing system of the modem house differs from the old oaken 
bucket or as simplicity differs from complexity. Home Economics 
is no panacea for all the ills of life, but it can do much to make a 
woman ready to serve in the daily tasks while she forgets not the 
finer things of the spirit. We are to be congratulated upon our 
opportimities and to go forth with a brave heart and without fear." 

Announcement was made of the vote of the executive committee 
on the preceding evening to increase the annual dues of the Associa- 
tion to one dollar per annum. This action was taken in accordance 
with a vote at the St. Louis Convention, resting this power in the exe- 
cutive committee at its discretion. 

The proposed amendments to the constitution and by-laws were then 
considered. Under the first of these a new by-law is added as follows: 

Sections of American Home Economics Assooiatign. 

I. Sections shall be organized subject to the approval of the council. Each 
section shall have its officers, consisting of chairman, vice-chairman, secretary, 
treasurer, and such committees as the section shall from time to time authorize. 

II. Sections shall be represented on the council of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association by the chairman. 

III. The general Association will provide opportimity on its program for sec- 
tional meetings, will print the proceedings of sections and in every way possible 
encourage the development of sections. 

Article IV of the constitution regarding membership of the council 
was amended to give chairmen of sections membership in the council 
by changing it so as to read: "Council shall consist oi four classes of 
members" and " (4) the chairman of each section of the Association." 

Under the second amendment, the relation of local associations to 
the American Home Economics Association was defined by adding to 
By-law HI, Membership, a Section H on local associations. 



94 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

Article III. Section II. Afl&liated Local Societies. Any local organization 
desiring to afiiliate with the American Home Economics Association shall include 
in its constitution the follo\ving statements: "The object of this organization is the 
same as that of the American Home Economics Association as stated in its consti- 
tution, Article 2. In addition, this association wishes to devote itself more speci- 
fically to the problems of Home Economics as they may develop in its local field." 

The third amendment separated the offices of secretary and treasurer. 
Article IV of the constitution was amended in Section i to read: 
"A secretary, a treasurer," instead of "a secretary-treasurer;" and in 
Section 2, to read: "Secretary and treasurer," instead of "and secre- 
tary-treasurer;" and in Section 3 to read: "Six elected officers," 
instead of "five elected officers." Article II of the by-laws was 
amended to read in Section 11 (i): "The treasurer," instead of "the 
secretary-treasurer as treasurer;" and in Section 11 (2): "The Secre- 
tary," instead of "the secretary-treasurer as secretary." 

These amendments were all adopted. 

Report oj the Secretary-Treasurer. — These reports were read by the 
acting secretary, as follows: 



SECRETARY'S REPORT FOR 1911. 

Office Arrangtmenis. — At the time the Association was organized the secretary- 
treasurer conducted the business of the Association and Journal, collecting dues, 
carrying on correspondence, etc. After the first two issues of the Joxirnal, the 
editorial work was transferred to Dr. Langworthy for the third issue and then to 
Mrs. Abel who has since served as editor. The secretary-treasurer continued to care 
for the business of the Association (address lists, collections, etc.) until into the sec- 
ond year when the lists and collections were transferred to the editor who added 
their care to the very considerable duties of editorial work already assumed. This 
proved an impossible burden and in the fall of 1910 the services of Mr. H. L. Knight 
of Washington, D. C, were secured, and an arrangement effected whereby he 
gave the editor such time as was at his disposal in assistance in preparing material 
for the printer, in seeing each issue through the press, and also as assistant treas- 
urer undertook charge of the collection of Journal subscriptions and Association 
dues. Meantime there has remained for the secretary-treasurer the general corre- 
spondence of the Association, preparation for meetings, and responsibility for funds. 
An amendment to the constitution is now proposed dividing the office of the treas- 
urer from that of secretary, and in view of the fact that the budget is now $4500, 
its adoption and the selection of a separate person to bear the financial responsibil- 
ity as treasurer seems wise. 

Further, the time has come when the Association should take steps to organize 
a business ofl&ce for the Journal and the Association. There should also be pro- 
vided a paid assistant for full time engaged in aggressive and undivided efforts to 



1912] Treasurer's Report 95 

extend the Journal's subscription list and the influence of the Home Economics 
movement. 

Membership. — The membership during 191 1 has been about iioo, which is a 
falling off of nearly 500 from last year. The decrease is to be explained as a result 
of the division of the fee for the subscription to the Journal from the membership ' 
fee. This division, it will be remembered, was made necessary by the regulations 
of the United States Post Office department governing the admission of advertis- 
ing to second-class mail matter. 

The membership fee during 1911 has been 25 cents and the subscription to the 
Journal $2.00. There has been no falling off in the subscription list to the Journal 
but on the contrary a slow but steady gain. The schedule of expenditures for the 
Association during 1911, amounting to $577.74, indicates that the membership 
fee must be raised at once from its present amount, 25 cents, to $1.00 as adopted 
last year. 

The approximate membership, thus far, has been as follows: 1908, when the Asso- 
ciation was organized, 700; 1909, 1250; 1910, 1500; 1911, HOC. 

Publication of the Journal. — The Journal of Home Economics has been issued 
as a bi-monthly, in February, April, June, October, and December, 191 1, including 
in all 527 pages. The subscription list is now upwards of 1600. The Journal has 
been edited by Mrs. Mary H. Abel, of Baltimore, with the assistance of an associate 
board of editors, composed of Miss Helen Kinne, Miss Anna Barrows, Dr. C. F. 
Langworthy, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Miss Isabel Bevier, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Dr. 
Thomas D. Wood, and Miss Martha Van Rensselaer. The Journal has been 
directly managed by a Joxhinal Committee, of which Mrs. Richards served as 
chairman until the time of her death. The remaining members of the committee, 
Dr. Langworthy and the secretary, have during the remainder of the year met in 
conference with the editor of the Journal as occasion has demanded. The Jour- 
nal has also had the assistance of Mrs. Claudia Q. Murphy, as advertising director, 
and the beginning which has been made in the way of getting advertisements 
promises a source of revenue upon which the Journal may depend. 

The Conventions. — The convention of 1910 was held at St. Louis. During the 
summer of 191 1, two sectional conventions were held, one with a program of educa- 
tional topics at the San Francisco meeting of the Home Economics Association, 
under the chairmanship of Miss Bevier, president of the Association, who went to 
the Pacific Coast for this purpose. The local committees of the Coast and in San 
Francisco were most efficient in rendering assistance. The other summer conven- 
tion was the second aimual meeting of the administration section held at the Lake 
Placid Club, with a program on institutional administration. The question of 
annual meetings and summer conventions does not seem yet settled to the entire 
satisfaction of our members. 

B. R. Andrews, Secretary. 

TREASURER'S REPORT. 

There was a balance of $764.00 in the general fund, on December 2^, 1910. As 
accounts for the Journal and for the Association, beginning with 191 1, were to be 
separated, this balance was apportioned, one-ninth to the new Association fund 
and eight-ninths to the Journal fund. 



96 The Journal of Home Economics [February 



The Association fund started with a balance of $84.77 and had receipts of $269.50 
from 1078 memberships at 25 cents each, and a balance of $27.75 from the St. Louis 
convention luncheon receipts, a total of $382.02 receipts. Expenditures against the 
Association fund amounted to $577.74, an excess of $195.72, over receipts, which 
excess was provided by an advance from the Journal fund. The expenditures of 
the Association fund, totaling $577.74, as noted, were divided as follows: Conven-, 
tion expenses: St. Louis, $200.12, San Francisco and Lake Placid (summer of 1911) 
$181.05, Washington, $11.77; making a total for conventions of $392.94. Secre- 
tary's expense, including postage, etc., $78.75; assistant treasurer's expense, collect- 
ing dues, etc., $64.80; treasurer's bonds, $15.00; flowers for Mrs. Richards' funeral, 
$25.00; and refunds on excess payments, $1.25; making total expenditures for the 
Association fund, $577.74. 

Certain outstanding bills against the Association fund indicate that the total 
deficit in the Association fund for 191 1 is approximately $255.53. 

II. 

The Journal Fund. — The receipts include a balance, share from the general 
fund, December 23, 1910, of $679.23, and receipts from subscription fees of $2974.60, 
sale of reprints, $123.00, advertising$5.oo, and contributions for the November, 1910, 
issue from Mrs. Richards, $300.00; total receipts for the Journal fund, $4081.- 
83. The expenditures against the Journal fund include for printing the Journal, 
$2256.35; the office and editorial expenses of the assistant treasurer, for editing the 
Journal, collecting subscriptions, etc., $724.40; advertising the Journal, $15. 75; 
Journal committee, $45.32; editor's expense, $78.74; advertising director's expense, 
$39.25; office equipment bought, $78.50; bank charges and refunds, $6.20; a total 
expenditure from the Journal fund of $3244.51. In addition, there has been ad- 
vanced from the Journal fund to the Association fund, $195.72, leaving a cash 
balance in the Journal fund, December 10, 191 1, of $641.60. 

There is still to be collected $300.00 for advertisements for the Journal, which 
with the cash balance makes a total of resources on December 10, 1911, of $941.60. 
On the same date there were bills payable amounting to $398.68, thus leaving an 
estimated real balance of $542.92. 

III. 

The Administration Section has a fund of $29.90 on deposit with the general Asso- 
ciation. 

IV. 

Permanent Fund. — The Association has on deposit $150.00, the proceeds of three 
life memberships. 

B. R. Andrews, Treasurer. 

Subsequently the auditing committee, consisting of Miss Bevler, 
Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, and Miss Caroline L. Hunt reported 
the accounts of the treasurer had been examined and found correct. 
This report was accepted. 



1912] Adjourned Meeting 97 

Committee on the Memorial Fund. — In the absence of Mrs. Barrett, 
chairman, Dr. C. F. Langworthy reported informally that unfore- 
seen delays had necessitated the postponement of the raising of the 
fund from November, 191 1, till some period after the holidays. The 
preliminary work of organization, collection of names, etc., has made 
good progress and it is expected that the active solicitation will soon 
be vigorously prosecuted. 

Committee on Entrance Requirements. — Miss Jenny H. Snow, chair- 
man, reported that the committee had continued its endeavors to 
formulate a unit of work in food for college entrance requirements. 
Three tentative outlines had been considered but no final agreement 
reached in the matter. The committee was continued with the fol- 
lowing personnel: Miss Snow, chairman. Miss Edna D. Day, Miss 
Louise Stanley, Miss Alice H. Craig, and Miss Ella J. Spooner. 

Adjourned Meeting. 

The business session was resumed at 11:00 a.m., December 29. 

Committee on Affiliated Societies. — Miss Van Rensselaer reported 
informally on the progress being made in organizing affiliated societies. 
A questionaire showed a general movement in this direction all over the 
country. The committee urged that all such societies actively sup- 
port the Journal. This report was accepted. 

Committee on Journal. — Mrs. Abel summarized the work of the 
year and described some of the difficulties with which the editor has 
had to contend. The need of an organized trained force was especially 
emphasized and an earnest appeal made to all members of the Associa- 
tion for continued support. 

On motion of Miss Isabel Ely Lord, seconded by Miss Adelaide 
Nutting, a rising vote of thanks was accorded Mrs. Abel in apprecia- 
tion of "her valuable and invaluable service as editor of the Journal." 

Committee on Legislation. — In the absence of Dr. Andrews, chair- 
man, a report of progress was submitted by Miss Anna Barrows. 
In this report a brief description was given of five bills pending in 
congress which concern Home Economics education, viz., the Page 
bill (Senate No. 3), the Wilson bill (House No. 13 12), the Smoot bill 
(Senate No. 1369), the McLaughlin bill (House No. 15256), and the 
Lever bill (House No. 11542). The committee recommended that 
each member of the Association secure copies of these bills from their 
representatives in Congress and after a comparative study of their 
merits write Senators and Members of Congress concerning them. 



qS The Journal' of Home Economics [February 

This report was accepted and the committee continued with the fol- 
lowing organization: Dr. Andrews, chairman, Miss Rosa Bouton, Miss 
Anna Barrows, Mrs. Robert M. La Follette, and Miss Jessie M. 
Hoover. 

Committee on Nomenclature on Home Economics. — This report, which 
had been presented and adopted by the department of manual training 
and Art of the National Education Association at San Francisco, July 
13, 191 1, was presented by Dr. A. C. True, director of the Office of 
Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. The report 
is as follows: 

(i) In the judgment of the committee, the term Home Economics should be 
used to designate the subject as a whole wherever it is taught, qualified only by the 
terms elementary, secondary, and higher as commonly applied to courses of instruc- 
tion of different grades. 

It was moved that the definition of Home Economics formulated by the commit- 
tee of the Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations on college 
courses in Home Economics be adopted. See (2). 

(2) Definition. — Home Economics, as a distinctive subject of instruction, 
includes the economic, sanitary, and esthetic aspects of food, clothing, and shelter 
as connected with their selection, preparation, and use by the family in the home 
or by other groups of people. 

(3) Instruction. — Instruction in this subject should be based on the laws of 
the physical, biological, and sociological sciences. The presentation should be 
graded according to the maturity, attainment, and purposes of the students. 

(4) Aim. — (a) Elementary Schools. In the elementarj' schools, the central 
thought should be the acquiring of skill. 

(b) Secondary Schools. In the secondary schools, while the work should lead to 
greater skill, it should also develop "the reason why" and cultivate the scientific 
method of thought by means of experiment. To this end, it should be correlated 
carefully with the work in other subjects so as to economize the time of teachers and 
students. 

(c) Higher Institutions. In higher institutions while skill and applied science 
and art are fundamental in the instruction, there should be the broader scientific, 
economic, and sociologic view and whenever practicable, the development of 
research. 

[Signed] Elizabeth C. Sprague, Acting Secretary. 

Dr. True explained that this report represented the joint action of 
the committee on instruction in agriculture of the Association of Ameri- 
can Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations and the committee 
on nomenclature of the American Home Economics Association and 
had met with general approval at the San Francisco meeting. The 
report was intended to run along somewhat general Hnes with a view 
to reaching agreement on what should be included in the general sub- 



1912] Adjourned Meeting 99 

ject of Home Economics and then by what name it should be desig- 
nated. 

Considerable discussion developed with reference to that section 
dealing with the scope of instruction in the elementary schools. The 
suggestion was made that the term "intelligent skill" should be used, 
but a number of speakers pointed out that skill implies intelligence. 
The report was adopted as a whole, and the committee continued with 
the following personnel: Dr. True, chairman, Miss Rosa Bouton, 
Miss E. C. Sprague, Miss Mary Wright, and Miss Abby L. Marlatt. 

Adjourned Meeting. 

The final business session was held December 30, at 11:00 a.m. 

Committee on Graduate School. — A verbal report was presented by 
Dr. Langworthy at the request of Mrs. Alice P. Norton, chairman. 
The formal report is as follows: 

At the close of the session of the Graduate School of Home Economics at Ames, 
Iowa, in the summer of 1910, the following resolution was passed: 

"Inasmuch as the agricultural colleges constitute the largest group of collegiate 
grade in the United States giving courses in Home Economics we, the Graduate 
School of Home Economics, request that in planning the work in the future, the 
Graduate School of Agriculture ofifer a section of Home Economics that the needs of 
the women students be as fully met as those of the men. 

"The Graduate School of Home Economics, after several years of separate organi- 
zation, has become a part of the American Home Economics .Association, and can 
assure the Graduate School of Agriculture that the American Home Economics 
Association will cooperate in every way and will work for the benefit of the Home 
Economics section which we hope may be formed." 

Your committee has been informed that the committee having the Graduate 
School of Agriculture in charge has decided that courses of instruction in Home Eco- 
nomics can not be provided by the school, in addition to its course in agriculture, 
since the demands for strictly agricultural work are fully as great as available 
resources will provide. However, the Graduate School of Agriculture is in sym- 
pathy with the objects and aims of the Graduate School of Home Economics, and 
will cooperate with the school along the same lines as heretofore, provided it is held 
at the same time and place as the Graduate School of Agriculture. 

At the Third .\nnual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association in 
St. Louis, it was decided that the next session of the Graduate School of Home Eco- 
nomics should be held at the Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, Michi- 
gan, in July, since the Graduate School of Agriculture is to be held at that place 
during the whole of that month, and that the period be selected in which the pro- 
gram of the Graduate School of .\griculture offers the most which would be of inter- 
est to the Graduate School of Home Economics. Your committee has made its 
plans accordingly and hopes that the school will be a worthy successor to the schools 
held at the University of Illinios, at Cornell University, at the Agricultural College 

Lt 
hObSiLhULD SClEWCfi ; 



loo The Journal of Home Economics [February 

at Ames, and that it may even in a somewhat different form reproduce the spirit 
and some of the features of the meeting; held ini902 , at Wesleyan University, Middle- 
town, Conn., which is the real parent of the Graduate School of Home Economics. 

As regards courses of instruction, Dr. C. E. Marshall of the bacteriology depart- 
ment and Prof. Frank S. Kedzie of the chemistry department of Michigan Agricul- 
tural College are ready to offer lectures and laboratory work in their subjects. It 
is believed that even in the short duration of the school, such laboratory courses 
will be helpful to the advanced student in illustrating modern methods of work. 
If additional laboratory work is desired, it is possible that arrangements can be 
made to continue it throughout the whole month of July. 

The course of animal physiology offered in the Graduate School of Agriculture 
will include much that will be of interest to students of Home Economics. The 
lecturers include Professor Pearl of the Maine Experiment Station, Professor Men- 
del of Yale, Professor Koch of Chicago, Professor Forbes of the Ohio Experiment 
Station, and Professor Sherman of Columbia. It is hoped that Professor Hoffman- 
Bang of Copenhagen will also be present. Every effort will be made to induce 
as man)' of these men as possible to give at least one lecture on the special problems 
of Home Economics. 

Dr. Langworthy, Professor Bevier, President of the American Home Economics 
Association, and others have consented to present papers, and it is hoped that many 
others who are not only teachers but investigators will present results of their 
research work. Your committee suggests that one special purpose of the Graduate 
School for this year be to familiarize the students with the latest results of such work. 

The committee would like the opinion of the Association in regard to this. They 
also wish the judgment of the Association in regard to the length of the school. 
The School of Agriculture meets from July i to 26, and it has been suggested that the 
School of Home Economics might extend its session from two to four weeks. This 
would make laboratory work more worth while, and would make it possible to avail 
ourselves more completely of the advantages offered by the School of Agriculture. 

[Signed] Alice P. Norton, Chairman. 

Before this report was presented to the annual meeting, a meeting 
of the Graduate School committee was held, at which Dr. A. C. True, 
dean of the Graduate School of Agriculture, was also present. At 
this meeting, later information was available regarding the possibility 
of cooperation on the part of the Michigan Agricultural College and 
some suggestions were made regarding additional work which would 
prove acceptable to the college, namely, a strong course in textile 
technology. Suggestions were also made for amplifying the project 
for presenting results of research work by a course of instruction de- 
signed to familiarize the students with the selection of problems 
for research, and the methods followed in the study of such problems, 
and which would in general familiarize the students with the objects 
sought and means employed in the independent study of scientific 
problems. It was the sense of the meeting that the Graduate School 



19 1 2] Adjourned Meeting loi 

of Home Economics should be limited to two weeks in July but that 
arrangements should be made, if possible, by which students who so 
desire may continue laboratory work throughout the entire month. 

The business transacted by the committee was outlined and the 
report of the Graduate School of Home Economics accepted. The 
committee to be in charge in 191 2 was announced as follows: Mrs. 
Alice P. Norton, chairman, Miss Edna D. Day, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, 
Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Miss Maude Gilchrist, Miss Agnes 
Hunt, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, and Dr. L. B. Mendel. 

Following brief remarks by Dr. Mary Walker, and the announce- 
ment by the President of an invitation from the Fifteenth Interna- 
tional Congress of Hygiene and Demography, to be held in Washington 
D. C, September 23-30, 191 2, to attend and contribute papers, the 
position of the Association with reference to Federal legislation was 
further set forth by the President. A resolution endorsing pending 
legislation providing Federal aid to secondary schools for training in 
Home Economics, agriculture, and the trades and industries was 
presented and referred to the committee on legislation. 

Committee on Resolutions. — Miss Craig reported resolutions which 
were adopted expressing the deep appreciation of the Association of the 
hospitality offered by the Home Economics Association of Washing- 
ton, D. C, and the eflficient, courteous, and never-failing service of 
the local committee in charge of the convention; thanking the School 
Board of Washington for the use of the Henry D. Cooke School, 
Superintendent Da\ddson for his interest and assistance, and Janitor 
Price for his efficient care of the building during the convention ; and 
expressing the appreciation of the Association for the hospitality ex- 
tended by Mrs. William H, Taft, Mrs. Franklin MacVeagh, and Mrs. 
Robert M. La FoUette, and also to the trustees of the Corcoran Gal- 
lery of Art, the Cornell Women of Washington, and the Eistophos 
Club. By another important resolution the Association placed itself 
on record as desirous of favoring in all possible ways the cause of pure 
textiles, and authorized the appointment of a committee to report 
at the next annual meeting as to progress, both legislative and educa- 
tional, in this direction, and to give all possible publicity to the facts 
necessary for an intelligent discussion of textile adulteration. 

A resolution urging a health regulation for all cities compelling the 
proprietor of every public eating house to Hght the kitchen so as to 
illuminate all parts thereof, and install between the kitchen and dining 
room a glass partition which would afford an uninterupted view of the 



I02 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

kitchen was also presented, but laid on the table for further considera- 
tion. 

Miss Nutting explained the work of the Administration Section of 
the Association, particularly as to school luncheons. 

Election of Officers. — The nominating committee, through Dr. 
H. C. Sherman, chairman, presented the following nominations for 
terms of one year: President, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Ilh- 
nois; first vice-president. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C; second vice-president, Miss Martha 
Van Rensselaer, Cornell University; third vice-president. Miss Abby 
L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin; secretary. Dr. B. R. Andrews, 
Teachers College; treasurer, Howard L. Knight, Washington, D. C; 
and member of the council (vice Miss Marlatt), Miss Agnes Harris of 
Florida. For terms of five years were nominated the following as 
members of the council: Miss Ellen A. Huntington of the Agricultural 
College of Utah, Catherine J. McKay of Iowa State College, 
Miss Louise Stanley, of the University of Missouri, Miss Mary L. 
Tuttle of Pratt Institute, and Mrs. Mary P. Van Zile of the Kansas 
State Agricultural College; as a member of the nominating committee 
Miss Emma S. Jacobs of the PubKc Schools of Washington, D. C. Miss 
CaroUne L. Hunt was nominated to the council for four years to fill 
the vacancy caused by the death of Mrs. Richards. 

These nominations were accepted and the nominees duly elected. 

The convention then adjourned, sine die. 

H. L. Knight, Acting Secretary. 

PROGRAM OF THE FOURTH ANNUAL CONVENTION, 
AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION.^ 

Washington, D. C, December 27-30, 191 1. 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 27. 

2 :30 p.m. ISIeeting of Executive Committee, Hotel Gordon. 
3 :30 p.m. Meeting of Council, Hotel Gordon. 
Reports of affiliated societies. 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28. 
* 

9:30 a.m. Convention called to order by the President of the Association, Miss 
Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois. 

Address of welcome by Dr. W. M. Davidson, Superintendent of Public Schools, 
Washington, D. C. 
Response by Miss Bevier. 

1 Papers read by title will be listed in the April Journal. 



1912] Program of the Fourth Annual Convention 103 

Action on proposed amendments to constitution and by-laws. 

Reports of officers. 

Reports of Committees: 

(i) Committee on Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund, Mrs. Caroline Weeks 

Barrett, Chairman; (2) Report of Committee on Entrance Requirements, 

Miss Jenny Snow, Chairman, University of Chicago. 

10:30 a.m. Papers: 

Applied Science — Its Place in the Curriculum of a College of Liberal Arts for 
Women: — i. Bio-Chemistry, Mary Louise Foster, Instructor in Chemistry, 
Smith College. 2. Chemistry, Miss Katherine Blunt, Ph.D., Department of 
Chemistry, Vassar College. 

Metabolism E.xperiments — Alice F. Blood, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chem- 
istry, Simmons College. 

Some Chemical Differences Between Short and Long Process Breads, Miss 
N. E. Goldthwaite, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Household Science, Univer- 
sity of Illinois. 

1 :3o p.m. Paper: Some Important Considerations in the Feeding of Young Chil- 
dren, Professor E. V. McCollum, University of Wisconsin. 
Round table: "The Elementary Work in Preparation of Food in College 
Classes," Miss Bevier, Chairman; papers by Miss May B. Van Arsdale, for 
Department of Foods and Cookery, School of Household Arts, Teachers Col- 
lege; Miss Catherine Mulligan, University of Tennessee; Mrs. Mary Pierce 
Van Zile, Kansas Agricultural College; Miss Ruth Atwater and Miss Jessie A. 
Long, Pratt Institute; and others. 

3:00 p.m. Complimentary cavalry drill at Fort Myer. 

4:00 p.m. Mrs. W. H. Taft received the ladies of the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science and affiliated societies at the White House. 

5 :oo to 7 :oo p.m. The Cornell Women of Washington gave a tea to visiting ladies 
at the home of Mrs. Frederick A. Holton. 

8:00 to 10:00 p.m. Reception by the Trustees of the Corcoran Art Gallery to the 
delegates and members at the Corcoran Art Gallery. 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29. 

9:00 a.m. Round table on Domestic Art Instruction for College Students. 

General Topic : " After Some Years of Experimentation What is the Educational 
Aim, Method, and Accomplishment in College Courses in Domestic Art?" 
Miss Agnes Houston Craig, Director of Domestic Art, College of Industrial 
Arts, Denton, Texas, Chairman, (i) From the Viewpoint of Science, Miss 
Ella Josephine Spooner Instructor in Domestic Art, Simmons College, Bos- 
ton, Mass. (2) Through Its Economic Interests, Miss Gertrude Van Hoesen, 
Instructor in Household Art, Chicago University, Chicago. (3) Esthetically 
Considered, Miss Mary Wynne Shackleford, Director of Fine and Industrial 
Arts, College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. (4) Technical Instruction, 
Miss Ruth Wilmot, Instructor in Domestic Art, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, 
N. Y. Discussion: (i) Scientific and Economic Phases, Miss Anna F. Blohm, 
Instructor in Domestic Arts, Ohio State University. 

Recommendations from the floor; Better Organized and More Unified Courses 
in Domestic Art. 



I04 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

ii:oo a.m. Business Session of Association. 

Reports of Committees (continued): (3) Report of Committee on Affiliated 
Societies, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer; (4) Report of Committee on Journal, 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Editor, Discussion; (5) Report of Committee on Legis- 
lation, Dr. B. R. Andrews, Chairman; (6) Discussion of Report of Committee 
on Nomenclature in Home Economics, Dr. A. C. True, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture. 

12:30 p.m. Convention Luncheon, Hotel Gordon. 

3:30 p.m. Session in charge of Administration Section of the Association, Miss 
Adelaide Nutting, Teachers College, Columbia University, Chairman. 
Topic: " School Lunch Rooms, Their Equipment, Organization, and Function," 
Elementary School Limch Rooms. Miss Mabel H. Kittredge, Chairman of 
School Lunch Committee of Public Education Association in New York City. 
High School Lunch Room: (A) Mrs. Mary H. Moran, New England Kitchen, 
Boston; (B) Miss Emma Smedley, William Perm High School, Philadelphia. 
A Cafeteria for College Students, Miss Arnold, Cornell University. 

4:00 to 6:00 p.m. The Eistophos Science Club of Washington was at home to vis- 
iting ladies at the Tea Cup Inn. 
Mrs. Franklin MacVeagh was at home to visiting ladies. 

8:00 p.m. Public Meeting of American Home Economics Association. 

"Education and Home Economics," with address of welcome. Philander P. 
Claxton, U. S. Commissioner of Education. 

Response: Miss Isabel Bevier, President of American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation. 

Paper: Home Economics and Culture, Mrs. Mary Hiimian Abel, Editor of 
Journal of Home Economics. 

9:00 to 10:30 p.m. A reception was given to the American Home Economics 
Association by the Home Economics Association of Washington, D. C. 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30. 

9:30 a.m. Paper: A Course on the History of the Household. Miss Willystine 
Goodsell, Assistant Professor, Teachers College, Columbia University. 
Round table: Miss Bevier, Chairman, Extension Education in Home Econo- 
mics: (i) in Kansas, Mrs. Mary P. Van Zile, Kansas Agricultural College; (2) 
In Minnesota, Miss Mary L. Bull, University of Minnesota. 

Effect of School Feeding on the Physical and Mental Development of the 
Child, Miss Alice C. Boughton, Philadelphia, Pa.; Miss Louise Stevens Bryant, 
Philadelphia. 

12:00 Concluding Business Session. Report of the Graduate School, Mrs. 
Alice P. Norton, Chairman. Report of Committee on Resolutions. Report 
of Nominating Committee. 
Adjournment. 

8:00 p.m. Mrs. Robert M. La FoUette was at home to visiting ladies. 



1912] Meeting of the Council 105 

MEETING OF THE COUNCIL. 

The council of the American Home Economics Association met at the Hotel 
Gordon, Washington, D. C, Wednesday, December 27, 191 1, at 3.30 p.m., with 
President Bevier in the chair. 

The proposed amendments to the constitution and by-laws were laid before the' 
council, and after discussion referred to the business meeting of the Association. 
The question of the amount of membership dues for 191 2 was discussed, and atten- 
tion was called to the action of the Association at the business meeting of the St. 
Louis convention, providing that the dues should be $1.00, whenever authorized by 
the executive committee. This action was judged final, and the increased dues 
ordered put into effect at once. 

The treasurer's report was presented (see page 95) and made the basis of a 
discussion as to the activities of the Association. The finance committee reported 
as follows: "As not one of the finance committee is a member of the executive 
committee and only one belongs to the council, it considers itself incompetent to 
outline financial policy, or to make recommendations which might prove unwise 
and inexpedient. It therefore begs leave to ask that it be discharged and a new 
committee be appointed from the executive committee." On motion, after dis- 
cussion, the report was adopted. 

On motion, it was voted that the chair appoint a committee of three on consti- 
tution and by-laws, to consider changes in the constitution and by-laws and also 
needed rules of procedure for committees. The president later appointed Miss 
Nutting, Miss Talbot, Miss Marlatt. 

The matter of local societies and their relation to the general association was 
brought up for discussion. Miss Van Rensselaer, of the committee on affiliated 
societies, reported on the general situation, and upon the New York Association in 
particular. Miss Gilchrist presented a report for the Michigan Home Economics 
Association; Miss Craig spoke of plans for a State Association in Texas; and Miss 
Elliott presented the report of the New England Home Economics Association. 
The need of organized effort for the development of local associations was urged and 
it was moved and voted, after discussion, that the executive committee appoint a 
committee of five on publicity and organization to study ways and means of in- 
creasing membership, of developing local associations,and of promoting the Journal. 

The suggestion was made that a central office for the Association and Journal 
be organized, at which a person should be employed for full time as an office secre- 
tary and assistant to the editor, (i) to carry on the office work of the Association, 
collect dues, handle correspondence, etc., and (2) to collect subscriptions for the 
Journal, canvass for new subscriptions, give assistance to the editor of the Jour- 
nal, and in general actively advance the interests of the Association and the Jour- 
nal. Such a person, it was pointed out, could assist in many of the forward move- 
ments which the committee on publicity and organization might outline. On 
motion, duly seconded, after discussion it was voted to recommend to the execu- 
tive committee the organization of a central office for the Journal and the Associa- 
tion, with a full-time assistant in charge. 

Mrs. Stannard, of the New England Association, reported the provisional plan 
of that association for a Home Economics bureau of information, in Boston, which 
would serve that section. 

On motion, the meeting of the council adjourned. 

B. R. Andrews, Secretary. 



EDITORIALS. 

The second annual meeting of the Administration Section, the 
papers and discussions of which are presented else 
Lake Placid where in this issue, marked a decided advance over 
Meeting of the first meeting. Those who attended the gathering 
Administra- at Lake Placid were struck with the fact that there 
tion Section, were in attendance a considerable number of persons 
professionally interested in the administration of large 
public institutions. 

This made possible one of the most interesting and valuable sections 
in the program, a detailed discussion of systems of buying. The pres- 
ence of Mr. Wright, of the State Charities Aid Association, who had re- 
cently completed an authoritative investigation of systems of insti- 
tutional buying in New York and certain other states, placed the dis- 
cussion of this topic at once upon a high level and permitted the con- 
sideration of detailed problems as to methods of ordering, receiving, 
storing, and administering the supplies in large institutions. Several 
representatives of New York state institutions were present, including 
certain physicians and other oflicials who are concerned practically 
with the steward's department. The ordinary contract system of 
purchase was discussed, and one interesting fact brought out that under 
certain circumstances buying in smaller quantities under direct imme- 
diate supervision has certain considerable advantages. 

Another very practical topic was presented by Mrs. Dewey, with 
her study of institution kitchens, their equipment, organization, and 
administration. Mrs. Dewey had collected information by a question- 
aire, sent o ut to a large number of institutions, which had called forth 
statements of many important problems. One of the most interesting 
was that of the standard unit-kitchen for large institutions, whether 
the best efl&ciency is found by limiting each kitchen to a service of 150 
people, or 200 people, or some larger number. The problem, as out- 
lined, is one worthy of most careful and painstaking study, and one 
cannot but wish that some scientific agency, like the Sage Foundation, 
might devote some of its funds to the determination of this and sim- 
ilar problems which underlie efl&ciency and human welfare in institu- 
tion life. 
106 



1 9 1 2 ] Editorials 107 

The topic of lunchrooms was treated by Miss Arnold, of Cornell 
University, who has had a remarkable experience in organizing a 
cafeteria for students, and who made plain that it is impossible to 
devote too much care and skill in this field, to the end that students 
may not only have nourishing food, but at the lowest possible price, 
in view of the narrow margins of expenditure upon which most stu- 
dents finance their college education. The problem of the institu- 
tion lunchroom, as Miss Arnold explained, was seen to fall in with all 
that is being urged in these days for the protection of human welfare 
and the conservation of human energy. Miss Sanborn brought 
another experience to bear upon the same problem from the industrial 
lunchroom, in which she had had an unusually successful experience 
in the city of Toronto. 

That there may be ultimately a science of institutional organiza- 
tion and administration was evident in the presentation by Mr. Dewey 
of record charts showing standards and measurements of performance 
in this field. The inventive genius, for it is no less, which Mr. Dewey 
has shown in the organization of the library field, is now finding a 
most happy expression in the development of controlling records and 
accounting forms for the institution household. Another interesting 
contribution was that of Dr. Langworthy, who presented the many 
sources of information for the institution worker in the wealth of gov- 
ernment and municipal documents and reports. 

One of the most striking items on the program was Dean Arnold's 
address on the Essentials in the Selection and Preparation of Students 
for Administrative Work. She made plain what every thoughtful 
institutional worker appreciates, that one who would go into institu- 
tion service must be ready to undertake responsibilities for life and 
welfare which are of a graver nature than those which confront the 
schoolroom teacher. There are needed quahfications of judgment and 
maturity, as well as of learning and training, if the responsibilities 
are to be safely intrusted. Dean Arnold urged that only as our train- 
ing institutions are able to include a model demonstration dormitory, 
in which the students can themselves vmdertake responsibilities for 
the general housekeeping, the commissary, and other departments, 
placing themselves under real tests in real situations, can the training 
in institution management become a real preparation. The medical 
college without the hospital, the school of education without its affil- 
iated elementary school for experimentation and practice teaching, 
would be no more an anomaly than our present courses for training 



io8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

institution workers which are being organized without adequate oppor« 
tunity for real field work. Not observation alone, but actual practice 
work under teaching supervisors of ability, is absolutely essential in 
the preparation of institution workers. 

Taken all in all, the meeting at Lake Placid last summer not only 
marked progress over the meeting of the preceding year, but it defi- 
nitely set up as a standard agreed to by persons concerned with prac- 
tical teaching and with practical institution administration ahke, that 
the whole field of institution management can be and must be reduced 
to system and order, and made available to the person entering it as 
a profession, not through blind apprenticeship, but through training 
in professional courses which shall combine the necessary foundation 
in science with actual apprentice practice under supervision. 

By vote of the Council, which held its annual meeting on Decem- 
ber 27, the fee for membership in the American Home Economics 
Association, beginning with 191 2, has been raised to 
, $1. The reason for this decision is the simple one 

T*ocfc TOT 

* that the present income does not pay the expenses of 

^' the Association. The income from membership fees 
has been $269.70. The expenses have been $577.74. The largest 
outgo is for the annual meeting, and a considerable sum has also 
been used in paying part of the expenses of the two meetings held last 
summer, one in San Francisco, the other at Lake Placid, N. Y. The 
deficit has been made up by an advance from the funds of the Jour- 
nal. There are other urgent calls on the treasury which we are not 
able to meet; it is important for instance that certain committees, 
such as that for afl5Hated societies, should have sums of money to 
use for development. If there were money to be expended in certain 
directions, without doubt the Association could be greatly enlarged 
as to membership and its influence more widely extended. 

Members of the Association will receive as formerly programs in 
advance for annual and other meetings and will receive reports of 
proceedings. Members are entitled to vote at all meetings and are 
eligible for election to the Council and Executive Board which attends 
to the business of the Association. 

But it is on no such grounds of privilege that all who have been 
members should continue to pay the increased dues. For the con- 
tinuity of the movement, it is necessary that large membership shall 
be loyally devoted to the ends for which the Association stands. The 



19 1 2] Editorials 109 

present membership of about iioo should be 1500 before the end of the 

year. Will all of our present members and subscribers take earnestly 
to heart the needs of the Association? 

The article in the December Journal entitled Home Economics 

_, , . from the Standpoint of the Grade Teacher should have 

Corrections. , . , 

been credited to Miss Melva Latham, in charge of 

the seventh grade in the School of Education of the University of 

Chicago. 

The Boston Normal School of Household Arts was organized by 

Mrs. Hemenway in 1886, instead of 1888, as stated (October Journal, 

p. 339). In 1898 it was given over to the state of Massachusetts and 

became the Mary Hemenway Department of Household Arts of the 

Framingham State Normal School, In 1905 its course was extended 

to three years. 

In order to supply complete sets to libraries and others, we are still 
T» , pj- anxious to secure additional copies of the following 

h w f H ^ss^^s ^^ t^^ Journal: Volume i, Nos. i and 2; Vol- 
ume 2, No. i; and Volume 3, No. 2. Forty cents 
per copy, payable either in credit on subscriptions or in cash, will be 
paid for the return of any of these numbers in good condition. Please 
notify us when sending, and state form of payment desired. Address 
American Home Economics Association, Roland Park Branch, Balti- 
more, Md. 

At an important meeting of the Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund 

_,, p- t, J Committee held January 20, 1912, the fund was 

„ p specifically designated the Ellen H. Richards Home 

_ J Economics Fund, and its object defined as the appli- 
nomics Fund. . , , . . ._ . . . . 

cation of the results of scientific investigation for 

advancing the interest of the home. The immediate purpose as 
decided is to establish permanently the Journal of Home Economics, 
the one scientific journal devoted to advanced housekeeping, and upon 
which Mrs. Richards was engaged at the time of her death; other 
objects contemplated are investigation, publication, fellowships, lec- 
tureships, etc. The selection of permanent trustees was considered 
and plans outlined for an active campaign for soliciting funds which 
it is expected will be under full headway by the time the Journal 
reaches its readers. Mrs. William H. Barrett, 108 Johnson Street, 
Brooklyn, N. Y., is chairman of the committee, and Dr. Benjamin 
R. Andrews, Teachers College, New York City, secretary-treasurer. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IV APRIL, 191 2 No. 2 

EDITORIAL BOARD FOR 1912. 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
ASSOCIATE editors- 
Education, Miss Helen Kinne, Teachers College, New York City. 

Extension, Miss Anna Barrows, 98 Gainsboro St., Boston, Mass. 

Food and Nutrition, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C. 

Textiles and Clothing, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wis. 

The House, Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, Urbana. 

Administration, Mrs. Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid, New York. 

The Family, Dr. Tho.\us D. Wood, Teachers College, New York City. 

Affiliated Societies — Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University , 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

April, 1912 

.\ plea for the introduction of historical courses on the home into higher 

schools and colleges for young women, Willystine Goodsell iii 

Biochemistry: Its place in the curriculum of the college of liberal arts for 

women, Mary Louise Foster 1 26 

Some important considerations in the feeding of young children, E. V. 

McCoUum I ,^3 

The nutritive value of seaweeds, Mary D. Swartz Rose ; 140 

Possibility of Kaffir corn for hum in food, Blanche Ingersoll 145 

The possibilities of a home-maker's course, Juniata L. Shepperd 147 

Home Economics in the agricultural college, Jessie M. Hoover 150 

Home Economics extension work in Kansas, Mary Pierce Van Zile 155 

I'xtension work in ^Iinnes)ta, Mary L. Bull 159 

The domestic science department as a social center of the school, Bertha 

M. Miller and Viola M. Bell 162 

Practical methods for teaching the nutritive value and cost of food, Helen 

Marion Day 164 

Opportunities for teachers and specialists in laundry work, L. Ray Balderston 166 

Novel courses at Mechanics Institute, Helen Hollister 167 

The Graduate School ot Home Economics 1 70 

Fifth Session of the Graduate School of .\griculture 171 

The -Alcott Home at Concord 172 

Bibliography of Home Economics literature, Marj' D. S. Rose 174 

Some recent books on Home Economics 179 

.Address of welcome to the .Association, P. P. Chxton 180 

Editorials 186 

News from the field 188 

Books and literature ig2 



THE 

Journal ^/Home Economics 

Vol. IV. APRIL, 191 2 No. 2 

A PLEA FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF HISTORICAL 
COURSES ON THE HOME INTO HIGHER SCHOOLS 
AND COLLEGES FOR YOUNG WOMEN.^ 

Miss Willystine Goodsell, Ph.D. 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Almost sixty years ago, Herbert Spencer, in his oftquoted treatise 
on Education, voiced part of his criticism of the intellectual training 
of his day in the following words :^ 

If by some strange chance not a vestige of us descended to the remote future save 
a pile of our school-books or some college examination papers, we may imagine how 
puzzled an antiquary of the period would be on finding in them no indication that 
the learners were ever likely to be parents. "This must have been the curriculum 
for their celibates," we may fancy him concluding. "I perceive here an elaborate 
preparation for many things: especially for reading the books of extinct nations 
(from which indeed it seems clear that these people had very little worth reading 
in their own tongue); but I find no reference to the bringing up of children. They 
could not have been so absurd as to omit all training for this gravest of responsi- 
bilities. Evidently, then, this was the school course of one of their monastic orders. " 

Now, although Spencer doubtless had in mind the training of future 
parents in hygiene, physiology, child-psychology, and ethics, his words 
are equally true and pungent when applied to our present failure to 
give instruction concerning the origin, historical development, eco- 
nomic and educational functions of the home as a social institution per- 
forming a unique public service. Two generations have passed away 
since Spencer made his vigorous plea for education in parenthood, 

' Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 1911. 
* Op cit. (Burt ed.), pp. 44, 45. 

Ill 



112 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

yet still our women's colleges are wedded to a curriculum largely tra- 
ditional and academic. To be sure, professional and technical schools 
have sprung up which give valuable training in cooker}^, in household 
chemistry, in dietetics, in textiles and their manipulation. Here and 
there material is presented bearing upon the wise and effective expendi- 
ture of income to secure the most nourishing food, the best clothing 
materials. All this is good, and bears more or less directly upon the 
problem of home-making. But few of our eastern colleges and finish- 
ing schools for women have introduced these courses, perhaps because 
they elect still to regard them as illiberal. And even Ln those profes- 
sional schools and state universities where ample recognition is afforded 
domestic science and art, I submit that it might be quite possible for 
a young woman to pass through courses of instruction in these subjects 
without carrying away an enlarged vision of their relation to the prob- 
lems of the modern home. Even if it be conceded, for purposes of 
argument, that the student does see the application of much that she 
studies to the large question of home-making, and is intelligently inter- 
ested in this aspect of the subject, it still remains true that such tech- 
nical courses cannot supply all the knowledge which seems essential 
if yoimg women today are fully to appreciate the meaning of parent- 
hood and home-making in this twentieth century. 

On all sides at the present time are heard predictions that the family 
and the home — at least in their present form — ^will ultimately disappear ; 
that disintegration, as revealed in the rapid increase of divorce and 
family desertion, as well as in the decrease of the marriage rate among 
young men and women of the upper middle, professional, and working 
classes, is so rapidly proceeding that the monogamic family must be 
either reconstructed or abandoned. Economic pressure is preventing 
the establishment of homes on the one hand and is interfering with 
their proper management and oversight on the other. Closely bound 
up with economic causes is the awful fact of prostitution which is 
responsible for the wreck of thousands of promising homes. 

The spirit of individualism, born of the great Enlightenment of the 
eighteenth century, and animating first only the men, has gradually 
stirred to eager life the women of the race. These women, so recently 
and incompletely emancipated, were, in the first thrilling joy of free- 
dom (partial though it was), perhaps more individualistic than the 
men. Their assertion of personal rights, their eager claim to the full 
development of personahty, natural as it was and is, has, no doubt, 
further complicated the already baffling problem of the maintenance 



1912] Plea for Historical Courses on the Home 113 

of harmonious and enduring family life. But, it should promptly be 
added, that nothing in modern life is more significant than the awak- 
ened social spirit of the women of today. More clearly than do men, 
if we may judge by current social literature, they appreciate at least 
some of the phases of the complex questions concerned mth the modern 
home. Ellen Key, Selma Lagerlof, Helen Bosanquet, Olive Schreiner, 
and Elsie Clews Parsons, women of broad intellectual grasp and vital 
moral purpose, have each pointed out in their wTitings one or more of 
the factors that enter into this present-day problem and have offered 
solutions or suggestions of varying worth. 

Yet, although the issue is rapidly becoming a burning one, no hint 
of it is reflected in the academic or professional work of our higher 
schools and colleges. It is as if we thought our institutions of learn- 
ing were especially designed to turn out classicists or research workers 
in history and science, or teachers of household arts and aUied subjects 
to girls who themselves are preparing to be teachers. Nowhere in 
the scheme is there any expUcit recognition of the fact that a large 
percentage of the young women graduated — at least from the colleges 
of liberal arts — will, before many years, become home-makers and in 
all probability be confronted with knotty situations for the untangling 
of which they are but meagerly prepared. 

How may we account for this indifference, apparently shared by all 
classes of educators? In the first place, it is largely due to the pro- 
verbial inertia of any long-estabhshed institution hke education which 
has staked out its field and developed its methods. But perhaps as 
important a contributing cause may be found in the fact that, although 
social self -consciousness, if I may use the expression, has been rapidly 
gaining ground since Auguste Comte coined the word ''sociology" and 
outUned its problems, yet society has only very recently been willing 
to turn this self-analytical, self-critical spirit upon its favorite insti- 
tution, the family. Only a few years ago, when a storm of criticism 
was directed against Mrs. Parsons' book on The Family, because it 
merely suggested that modern unsatisfactory conditions as regards 
marriage might authorize the experiment of trial marriages, Professor 
John Dewey remarked to a class of graduate students that the one 
institution which society was as yet obx'iously unwilling to subject 
to calm and critical analysis was the family. And this reluctance is 
not diflicult to understand. With marriage and the family the heart- 
strings of most of us are interwoven. Our deepest and most sacred 
memories are bound up with home, father, mother, husband, children. 



114 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

Yet, within the last five years, the change in attitude of intelligent 
men and women toward this matter is truly remarkable. The prob- 
lems concerned with the family and its successful maintenance, both 
from a personal and a broadly social viewpoint, are being investigated 
and discussed not only with earnestness but with hopeful evidences of 
scientific spirit and method. It may, then, be hoped that, before 
many years, inertia and prejudice will have given way, and courses on 
the origin, history, and present-day conditions of the family will have 
become the subject of impartial and searching study in higher schools 
and colleges. 

Such a course, although as yet too brief to be entirely satisfactory, 
has been introduced into the curriculum of the School of Household 
Arts of Teachers College. The purpose of the course, as the writer 
has conceived it, is fourfold: First, to assist the students in perceiv- 
ing how present conditions, customs, and ideals have come to be, and 
in appreciating how deeply they send their roots back into antiquity; 
secondly, to use this historical knowledge as a basis for understanding 
the present situation of the home in its economic, social, moral, and 
educational aspects; thirdly, to arouse in every young woman a sense 
of the dignity of the home and of the enormous social service it has 
always rendered — a service to which women have been by far the 
largest contributors, since they have built up the family through mater- 
nal love and chiefly sustained it by their daily care and sacrificing 
efforts in the one sphere allotted to them; and fourthly, to awaken in 
the students an alert and dynamic interest in all modem questions 
concerning the family and its functions, an interest which shall lead 
them to continue their study and inform themselves widely on these 
matters, after the course is concluded, and to ally themselves with 
such sane and wholesome movements as may develop for the improve- 
ment of the present situation. 

In the first place, the Teachers College course is genetic, endeavoring 
to preserve some degree of historical continuity, although this is not 
always apparent. Yet it is quite possible that under different con- 
ditions the idea of continuity might well be sacrificed to some other 
guiding principle which more satisfactorily met a specific situation 
and need. For example, in talking over the organization of a histori- 
cal course on the home for young women who were preparing to go 
out as social workers among a factory population largely foreign, it 
seemed best both to the prospective teacher and myself to make a 
study of past and present family life and ideals among Bohemians, 



1912] Plea for Hislorical Courses on the Home 115 

Russians, Poles, Italians, and other European races. Such an ap- 
proach would manifestly be better adapted to the needs of this group 
of students than the one pursued at Teachers College. 

In the course as given in the School of Household Arts a beginning 
is made with the primitive family. The origin of marriage and the 
family, the different forms they assume among various savage peoples, 
the status of women and children, the loose character of the marriage 
tie leading to frequent divorce, the economic function of the family in 
primitive society, and its further social service as an educational agency 
are particularly emphasized. Such a study should make ample use 
of the accounts of reliable anthropological writers and travelers con- 
cerning the types of family existing today among groups very low in 
the scale of civilization, such as the Australian aborigines, the Veddahs 
of Ceylon, and the Fuegians of South America. The students may be 
led to perceive the principle, so con\ancingly maintained by Wester- 
marck, Fiske, and others, that marriage, in the sense of a union of the 
sexes persisting beyond the birth of offspring, is an outgrowth of the 
family, not the family of marriage. The sex instinct alone furnishes 
too unstable a basis for an enduring family relation; whereas the help- 
lessness of the human infant, together with the great fact of maternal 
love, and the need of both mother and father in the protection of the 
child during a period of varydng length have been the potent causes 
of the development of home and family. Such a principle, once clearly 
perceived, may be judiciously utilized as a standard by which to esti- 
mate the function of the family in this twentieth century. If marriage 
in its origin grows out of the needs of helpless offspring, it is not un- 
reasonable to assume that the procreation, nurture, and education of 
children is the primary function of the family today. I am quite 
aware that there are individuals who will contest this point and main- 
tain the right of every man and woman to the full completion of his 
or her life through marriage, even though this union be designedly 
unfruitful. But fortunately for society this conception of marriage is 
at present confined to a small though probably increasing minority. 
Students who once fully appreciate that the family is a social institu- 
tion not alone furnishing to society the raw material of its future citi- 
zens, but training these unformed natures in harmony with usages and 
ideals sanctioned by social experience, have gained an insight into the 
dignity and meaning of the home which will guide their thinking and 
their conduct with regard to the whole problem of the family. 

The primitive family illustrates how material apparently remote 



ii6 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

from present-day life may be made to furnish its quota of valuable 
suggestion for the understanding of modern conditions. The Hebrew, 
Greek, and Roman families illustrate in varying degrees the patriarchal 
type in which the father, or the oldest male member in the male line, 
is the undisputed and reverenced lord of the household, including 
servants and slaves. The relation of the patriarchal family to pastoral 
life, its connection among the Greeks and Romans with ancestor 
worship, the status of w^omen and children in these varying types of 
patriarchal family, and the influence of this status upon home life and 
education are a very few of the topics which may be discussed. The 
evidences in Genesis and Deuteronomy of marriage by purchase and 
by service among the Hebrews are clear enough, although in the age 
of the Talmud the latter had disappeared and only the symbols of the 
former remained. The changing status of the Greek woman from 
Homeric times to historic, her relative freedom and dignity in the ear- 
lier age, and her degradation almost to the Oriental level in the later, 
form material for interesting and suggestive study. The use of source 
material in working out a conception of Greek family life cannot be 
too strongly recommended. The Iliad and the Odyssey, in the admir- 
able translations of Andrew Lang, furnish fascinating material from 
which to deduce conclusions as to the family of the Homeric age. 
This early account may be contrasted with the picture drawn by 
Xenophon in his Economics of the position of the Greek wife in the 
fifth century B.C. when she had become little else than a housekeeper 
in the narrowest sense, with too little education to be a companion to 
her husband or an efficient mother to her children. The Electra of 
Euripides, in the delightful translation of Gilbert Murray, affords yet 
another contemporary picture of sex relations and family ideals in the 
same period. 

When we turn to Rome, the purity and dignity of the Roman woman 
in the early stern and simple period, the admirable character of the 
home as the school of practical arts and moral and civic virtues, may 
be contrasted with the low ideals of marriage, the prevalence of divorce 
and adultery, the marked decline in the educative influence of the 
home, so characteristic of the late Republic and the Empire. Prob- 
ably, as Professor Ferrero has suggested, a striking parallel could be 
drawn between imperial Rome and the American republic of today. 
Apparently there was much the same emancipation of woman then as 
now, followed by her eager participation in public affairs. Then, as 
now, education had largely passed from the home to the schools. 



1912] Plea for Historical Courses on the Home 117 

Marriage had always been a civil contract in Rome, in which neither 
State nor religion interfered. Today marriage has become largely 
a civil matter, despite the age-long hold of the church upon it, and 
there are not lacking individuals who prophesy that in the future it 
will once more take its place as a purely personal concern. Finally, 
the laxness of the marriage-tie, the decline in the birth-rate, and the 
low moral ideals too prevalent among the wealthy and leisure class 
are as characteristic of one civilization as the other. 

With the introduction of Christianity came the warfare of the church 
against abortion, infanticide, and the divorce evil. But the student 
should be led to see how very gradual has always been the work of 
substituting new ideals for old customs. In the age of Justinian, 
divorce was still largely a personal matter even among professed Chris- 
tians and it so remained until the ninth century. In connection with 
this early Christian period one fact more may be touched upon very 
briefly. The attitude of the western Church Fathers, Tertullian, Jerome, 
and Augustine, toward marriage was so hostile, their conception of 
the marriage state as revealed in their writings so ignoble, that a blow 
was struck at the family from which it had hardly recovered at the 
age of the Renaissance. 

Passing rapidly over the Middle Ages, I shall suggest only a very 
few subjects from the wealth of material for fruitful investigation 
offered by this period. The half barbaric marriage customs and ideals 
prevalent among Teutons, Franks, and Anglo-Saxons, before and for 
some time after their conversion to Christianity, offer interesting sub- 
jects for study. Evidences of marriage by purchase are clear enough 
in the old folk-laws prior to the ninth century. Payments of money or 
land or cattle to the father of the bride before marriage and later the 
famous "morgen gifu," or morning-gift to the wife on the morning after 
the marriage-night, point unmistakably to the earlier purchase of the 
wife, although probably this need not be interpreted to mean that she 
was regarded as a mere chattel. Marriage in these rude days was a 
private contract between the parties concerned into which little or 
nothing of a religious element entered. 

But marriage does not remain a lay matter throughout the Middle 
Ages. The history of the gradual intervention of the church in the 
marriage ceremony makes a suggestive field of study. Yet it was not 
until the Council of Trent, which sat from 1 545-1 563, that all mar- 
riages not contracted in the presence of a priest and two or more wit- 
nesses were declared void. The independent British Isles, however. 



ii8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

refused to accept this decree with the result that the private, con- 
tractual marriage, the present day "common law marriage" was valid 
in that country until 1753. Perhaps it is not generally known that 
"common law marriage" is still regarded as valid and binding in sev- 
eral of the states of our Union. 

Perhaps the most valuable topics in the whole vast field of the 
Middle Ages are concerned with the home as an economic institution. 
A sharp sex division of labor, giving to men the spheres of warfare, 
tillage, and management of feudal estates, and to women a vast variety 
of household occupations, was widespread. Women in those days were 
producers and manufacturers in a very real sense. The flax industry 
was entirely in their hands, from the sowing and harvesting of the 
flax to the manufacture of household linen and garments from the 
spun and woven threads. So with the wool industry until late in the 
Middle Ages. Every woman, high or low, knew how to card, spin, 
weave and dye cloth, and the homes were hives of industry. Wright, 
in his delightful work entitled Womankind in All Ages of Western 
Europe, states that there is ample evidence to show that women served 
not only in the capacity of midwives, but as physicians and surgeons 
throughout a large part of the Middle Ages. Their empirical knowl- 
edge of medicinal herbs and their preparation and use was handed on 
to the women of Post-Renaissance days. From these facts and many 
others the student may be led to appreciate the important economic 
contributions of wives and mothers throughout these centuries, and 
the lack of correspondence between their inferior social and legal status 
and their productive services. 

With the Renaissance came the abandonment by Protestants of the 
Catholic dogma of marriage as a sacrament and the gradual substi- 
tution of Luther's idea of the family as the unit of the social structure, 
in which the God-fearing father and mother appear as the most valu- 
able assets of the state. The position of women in the home slowly 
improved with the advance of civilization. Dominant women were 
not unknown in the Middle Ages, but during the Renaissance centuries 
we are struck by their number and influence. Elizabeth of England, 
Marguerite d'Angouleme, described in her epitaph as "Queen of the 
Muses," Isabella D'Este and Vittoria Colonna, friend and adviser of 
Michel Angelo, are but a few of this shining band of cultivated and 
forceful women. 

After the general effects of the Renaissance upon woman and the 
home have been treated, a selection from among the mass of material 



1912] Plea for Historical Courses on the Home 119 

relating to the homes of the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth 
centuries becomes imperative. Not all European countries can be 
considered, nor can America, from colonial times to the present, re- 
ceive thorough treatment. Therefore it has seemed best to limit thp 
field to a cursory study of England and the United States, since the 
influence of English common law and family customs upon this coun- 
try is unquestioned. 

Sixteenth century England reveals the husband still the unques- 
tioned head of the household and its members. As yet the housewife 
has few privileges and many cares. Yet there is clearly a tendency to 
educate the daughters of the nobiUty and well-to-do gentry in the 
whole circle of the Hberal arts. Queen Elizabeth, Lady Jane Grey, 
and the daughters of Sir Thomas More are not the only instances of 
liberally educated women that the period affords. This and the suc- 
ceeding century are marked by a great improvement in the architec- 
ture and furnishing of English homes and in consequence a gradual 
refining of home life. "Books of courtesy," laying down detailed 
rules of etiquette for meals and social gatherings, become quite nu- 
merous in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries and serve a valuable 
purpose in the refining of manners. Even the homes of the burgher 
class show many of the comforts, conveniences, and even elegancies 
of life. This is the age when domestic industry undergoes modifica- 
tions which are prophetic of the industrial revolution. The cloth- 
making and stocking industries become prominent owing to the in- 
flux of Dutch and French weavers with improved implements. Manu- 
facturing, to be sure, is carried on in the homes, but there is greater 
division of labor, control is exercised by a master outside, who rents 
out implements in the stocking and silk manufacture and pays em- 
ployees. Moreover certain industries are being drawn from the con- 
trol of women to be taken over by men. Baking, brewing, candle- 
making, tailoring, milling, and cloth-manufacturing, are no longer 
exclusively home industries. Slowly mediaeval England is becoming 
modem and the homes reflect the change in ideas and customs. 

These modern tendencies are far more evident in the seventeenth 
century when the home emerges as a strong and unified institution. 
The century is marked by the greater unity of husband and wife, grow- 
ing out of the encouraging tendency for marriages to be based on 
mutual love and respect. Yet the husband legally retained full con- 
trol over the wife, although in many homes the right was probably 
not exercised with harshness. The English household in the seven- 



I20 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

teenth century was highly organized; servants were regarded as part 
of the family and received moral and religious instruction much the 
same as the children. The English wife spent the bulk of her time in 
supervising the varied activities of her household which, in the country 
at least, was largely a self-sustaining unit. The educative influence 
of the home was very noteworthy. Religious and moral education 
tended to pass rather more from church to home than was the case in 
the Middle Ages. Family prayers, attended by the entire household 
(often including field hands), daily home instruction in religion and 
morals, were characteristic of many households — even outside the 
Puritan sects. Discipline was severe, even harsh, although there are 
evidences in many homes that this severity was relaxing and giving 
place to gentler methods. Outside of moral and religious training, the 
education of woman was still largely determined by her future sphere 
which was universally conceived as marriage and housewifely duites — 
both in England and America. Parental power was still almost abso- 
lute in respect to the marriage of children, although daughters who 
dared to rebel were allowed right of veto and in some instances of 
choice. To be an old maid was a fate few women aspired to in those 
days when woman's only field of honorable activity lay in the home. 
The whole family, including near relatives, were often actively con- 
cerned in marrying off some luckless damsel whose dowry was too small 
to attract suitors, and who thus was confronted with the truly mourn- 
ful fate of a dependent in the homes of her reluctant kin. 

When the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries are reached, the most 
pregnant topic for discussion is of course furnished by the industrial 
revolution with its resulting transformation of domestic industry and 
home life. With the development of mineral resources, the beginnings 
of capitalistic labor, the substitution of machinery for hand work, the 
household as the unit of production tended to disappear and the old 
stabiHty of economic life was threatened at its root. Men, women, and 
children, formerly independent workers in the home, became, under 
the rapidly expanding factory system, mere "hands," entirely de- 
pendent on the wages doled out by capitalists. The decline of home 
apprenticeship and the extension of poor relief were the immediate 
results. But these economic changes led to far-reaching transforma- 
tions in the integrity and influence of the family in both England and 
America. At this time and during the whole of the nineteenth cen- 
tury wives and mothers, needed to maintain the home, were drawn 
into the current of industry. In the English textile industry alone, 



1912] Plea for Historical Courses on the Home 121 

between 1841 and 1891 the number of males increased 53 per cent, the 
females 221 per cent. The result was inevitable; the old, sturdy home 
training declined, the family tended to disintegrate into a number of 
units representing independent wage-earners, who sleep and eat under 
one roof but have less in common than ever before. The influence of 
parents upon offspring perceptibly decreased, not only because the 
children early became economically independent, but also because the 
parents had too little time during their early childhood patiently to 
shape and influence their lives and characters. 

Other significant tendencies of the nineteenth century which call for 
treatment are concerned with the very gradual extension of larger 
property rights to women, leading, in England, to the Married Women's 
Property Act of 1882. Contemporary with this was the movement 
looking to the broader and more liberal education of young women. 
The girls' boarding schools, so popular in the eighteenth century, which 
bestowed a smattering of music, French, embroidery, and manners 
upon conventional young misses, trained to meet the artificial ideal 
of clinging womanhood current in that conventional age, gave way in 
time to more substantial types of schools. By the middle of the nine- 
teenth century the individualistic movement of the age of Voltaire 
and Rousseau had made itself felt even in the lives of women. Col- 
leges for women — Queens in 1848, Bedford in 1849, Girton in 1869, 
Newnham in 1871 — offered rich and broadening courses to English 
girls; and similar institutions developed in America, beginning with 
Mount Holyoke College, opened as a seminary in 1837. In connec- 
tion with this movement the students of the course should be led to 
consider how far this intellectural emancipation of women has influ- 
enced marriage and home life at the present time. Is there ground for 
the assertion so glibly and frequently made that a relatively small 
proportion of college bred women marry? Finally, a fruitful subject 
for the students' investigation would be the legislation affecting the 
social and legal status of women in Europe and America, since this has 
a very obvious bearing on family life and relations. The tendency to 
put women into full possession of their own property and earnings, to 
make them equal guardians with the father over their children, to 
establish in theory and in law although not in public opinion, the single 
standard of morals, to grant equal divorce rights to husband and wife, 
to advance the "age of consent," and to increase the penalties for rape 
and seduction are only a few of the modern movements designed to 
grant protection to young girls, and to secure for wives and mothers 



122 The Journal of Ilome Economics [April 

those tardy rights which indicate their admission to the ranks of free 
individuals with personalities to be reckoned with. 

This review of the course may, perhaps, serve to make plain one 
guiding principle which should animate the whole work. How far 
does this material help the student better to understand certain cus- 
toms, attitudes, ideals that play a prominent part in modem marriage 
and family life? If the facts and principles under consideration seem 
at present to lead nowhere, however curious and interesting they may 
be, such facts should be relegated to the background. There is ample 
suggestive material shedding light on the more immediate past and 
on the living present, with its urgent problems and needs, to justify 
the apphcation of this drastic principle. Moreover the course covers 
the history of civihzation in one important aspect, and time is all too 
brief for its demands. 

In conclusion, I shall indicate, very briefly, the lines along which the 
analysis and study of present-day family conditions might proceed. 
As has been suggested at the beginning of this paper, the family of the 
twentieth century is in so unstable and fluctuating a state as to sug- 
gest its radical reconstruction if not its ulitmate disintegration. Of 
course the most noteworthy feature of family life today is the increas- 
ing prevalence of divorce, which reveals a rate of increase far greater 
than that of the population. According to the special U. S. Census 
Report on Marriage and Divorce published in 1909, the divorces granted 
in the decade 1890-1900 increased 66.6 per cent over the preceding 
decade; while the rate of increase of population for the same period 
was only 20.7 per cent. Apparently for every 15.6 native marriages 
celebrated in the United States one is dissolved by divorce; and this 
melancholy proportion would be one divorce to 13.9 marriages if 
over 100,000 divorce cases had not been thrown out because the court 
records did not declare the place of marriage of the parties.' Surely 
these facts reveal a condition calling for the intelligent understanding 
of educated young women. 

Of all causes for divorce in the United States, desertion is by far the 
most frequent, furnishing, according to the Census Report, 38.5 per 
cent of all assigned causes in the years between 1902-1906. So press- 
ing an evil has this become, so fruitful a source of blighted homes, that 
the Associated Charities of Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, and New 
York have conducted investigations into the matter and havepubhshed 

' Op. cit., Part I, pp. 22-24. 



1912] Plea for Historical Courses on the Home 123 

reports which seek to discover the extent and causes of family desertion. 
The publication of the Charity Organization Society of New York on 
Family Desertion states that "the usual deserter is not a man who is 
physically weak or ill and discouraged, nor desperate because of bad 
housekeeping or his wife's ill-temper; he is a yoimg, able-bodied man, 
who leaves because he is well able to take care of himself and desires 
to indulge a selfish or vicious impulse, or to avoid ordinary cares or 
some unusual trouble. Desertion, therefore, indicates a serious moral 
defect."^ Again this would appear to be a subject in which young 
women educated for full social membership should be intelligently 
interested and informed. 

Among the numerous hostile forces at work to undermine family life 
today none is more insidious and terrible than that ancient evil of 
prostitution. The reports of the Chicago and Minneapolis vice 
commissions make clear enough the widespread character of this insti- 
tution as well as the existence of an organized traffic in vice involving 
the lives of thousands of ignorant girls. The close relation between 
vice and economic conditions can no longer be ignored by serious men 
and women. Fifty-nine per cent of all young women in the United 
States between the ages of sixteen and twenty are employed in some 
gainful occupation. Girls in stores and factories, living on a weekly 
wage of six dollars or less, may easily learn that disreputable women 
have an earning capacity more than four times greater than their own. 
And many of these girls are adrift from home restraints and influences. 
In the words of Jane Addams, "at the present moment no student of 
modem industrial conditions can possibly assert how far the superior 
chastity of women, so rigidly maintained during the centuries, has 
been the result of her domestic surroundings, and certainly no one 
knows under what degree of economic pressure it may give way."^ 

But prostitution does not confine its debasing influences to the wage- 
earning class. The e\il has extended its tentacles into all classes of 
society, too often bringing disease and disillusionment to the wife and 
an inheritance of bodily infirmity or permanent blindness to the inno- 
cent offspring. These are subjects we do not enjoy discussing even 
if we do not wholly condemn their discussion: yet they are intimately 
bound up with the matter of wholesome and happy family life, and it 
is highly doubtful whether we as students of the family as an institution 
are justified in longer turning our backs upon them. 

*0p. cit., p. 9. 

* A New Conscience and an Ancient Evil, McClure's Magazine, December, 191 1, 
p. 233. 



124 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Another active factor in the present unsatisfactory condition of 
family life lies in the participation of large numbers of married women 
in industrial and professional life. The deplorable effect of the removal 
of wife and mother from the home during the long working day 
is apparent in every country of Europe and America. The crfeche 
in France, the day-nursery in America, represent public attempts on 
the part of an awakened society to fill the breach and supply some- 
thing of the care and oversight of the true mother in the home. It 
seems clear enough that this need for the daily wage which the woman 
can add to the family income is not the sole cause of the enormous 
influx of women into all forms of gainful employment. The inevitable 
result of the intellectual and economic emancipation of woman has 
been her eager desire to share in the world's work, to shoulder her por- 
tion of the labor and thought, the aspiration and effort which are the 
price we must pay for the betterment of human life. Shall she or can 
she be excluded from active participation in professional life, from 
assuming her full share of the social burden, from taking active part 
in all movements looking to the improvement of the conditions under 
which some or all of us Hve? Students should be led to appreciate 
the complexities of this problem in its full bearing upon the future of 
the home and of family life. 

But the last word in a historical course on the home should not be 
an analysis of present-day menacing conditions. What can be done 
by earnest men and women to initiate a better state of things? At this 
point the instructor may, perhaps, do the most helpful, because the 
most constructive and vital work of the whole course. The solutions 
offered by such social writers as Professor Howard, August Bebel, 
Ferrero, and others for some of the problems of modern family life 
may be presented and discussed, pro and con. For example, the 
question of the enormous increase in divorce may well lead to a con- 
sideration of such remedial measures as the greater restriction of mar- 
riage under conditions fixed by the state, the securing of uniform mar- 
riage and divorce laws throughout the Union, and the education of 
adolescent boys and girls in the higher social meaning of marriage and 
the family. Indeed the matter of the sex education of boys and girls 
can hardly be much longer ignored by educators. The home shows 
an increasing tendency to shunt this added burden to the shoulders 
of the school. Fathers and mothers with a prudishness hard to con- 
done, too often resolutely shut their eyes to their children's need of 
wholesome instruction in the facts of reproduction. Shall the school. 



1912] Plea for Historical Courses on the Home 125 

then, organize courses in nature study, in biology of a simple sort, and 
in physiology and hygiene specially adapted to young men and women 
in the adolescent period? If it be urged by the students that parents 
can more effectively give this instruction, then the problem shifts. 
How can the school get hold of fathers and mothers, give them the 
knowledge which they lack with surprising frequency, and arouse within 
them a sense of the importance of furnishing their sons and daughters, 
at the critical time, with the information and guidance so essential to 
their future well-being? Let the students, if possible, fully appre- 
ciate the need of sex education in its broadest sense, and then lead 
them to think upon and freely discuss means and obstacles. 

The same question comes up again when the subjects of family 
desertion, the production of offspring far beyond the family means, 
prostitution and their remedies, are discussed. Indeed, if by one 
means or another, the coming generation could be made fully to 
understand the supreme value of sexual self-control , for the indi- 
vidual and for the community, the dignity and seriousness of marriage, 
and the essentially social function of the family and the home — a 
function which no other institution yet evolved can in any degree 
perform — it would seem as if a long stride had been taken in solving 
the whole baffling problem of the family. And, with the discussion 
of this burning educational issue, upon which the future of the home 
so largely depends, the course may well come to an end. 



BIOCHEMISTRY: ITS PLACE IN THE CURRICULUM OF 
THE COLLEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS FOR WOMEN.^ 

Mary Louise Foster. 

Instructor in Biochemistry, Smith College. 

It is with pleasure that I come here to plead for a place for biochem- 
istry in the college of liberal arts for women. I am in hearty sympathy 
with the recent action of a branch of the Association of Collegiate 
Alumnae in urging the introduction of Home Economics into our col- 
leges for women. In 1883, Mrs. Richards was the prime mover of the 
Sanitary Science Club, a group of women who felt the need of study of 
this kind and who declared in the introduction to the book which they 
published later that the "expenditure of time and effort had been amply 
repaid by positive and satisfactory results." I studied sanitary chem- 
istry with Mrs. Richards at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
and was associated with her on a committee appointed from the 
Women's Education Association to devise a working program for a 
manual training school for girls in Boston. Our object was to make 
women efficient in their own domain, efficient at home, and we believed 
that, with the new knowledge which research had made available, 
training was necessary if this knowledge was to be diffused. It is in- 
struction along these lines which our alumnae are now urging upon 
the trustees and faculties of our colleges. Classically educated myself, 
I got my first stimulus from Mrs. Richards for the work which has 
been a continuous happiness to me. 

Dr. Charles W. Eliot, in an address before the Association of Col- 
legiate Alumnae in 1908, said that the effort in the early years of the 
existence of women's colleges was to demonstrate the fitness, the men- 
tal capacity of women, for the same education which men had been 
receiving for years. Mary Lyon, busy in 1838 in founding Mt. Holy- 
oke College, demanded a higher education for women who might thus 
fit themselves to fill the places which were waiting for them. Mary 
Lyon was far ahead of her time. What woman without special train- 

* Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December, 191 1. 

126 



rgiaj Biochemistry in the College for Women 127 

ing would today dare to offer herself as a candidate for a school posi- 
tion? The Girls' Latin School founded in Boston in 1878 through 
the efforts of many women in that city was an expression of the con- 
viction of these women that given an even chance, girls could prove 
themselves equal to the demands of a classical education. The steady 
growth of this school with its rigidly maintained high standard has 
justified the behef of the founders. Wherever we turn, we find the same 
results : Fears that college women would not marry are not borne out 
by statistics; forebodings that health would be ruined are removed by 
records of our g^'mnastic departments which show improved physical 
conditions, due probably to the regularity of college life ; doubts of the 
ability of women to maintain lines of thought are dispelled by the long 
lists of women fiUing positions inside our colleges and outside where 
intellectual worth and executive power are the prerequisites. Miss 
Thomas at Br}m Mawr, Miss Pendleton at Wellesley, and Miss 
Woolley at Mt. Holyoke are a few illustrations. 

The demonstration of our abihty to cope with an education is com- 
plete. Now we face a new situation: What education is best? To 
quote Dr. Eliot again from the same address: "We are free now to 
arrange for an education for women which is specially adapted to the 
needs of women." And again: " The prime motive of the higher edu- 
cation of women should be recognized as the development in women of 
the capacities and powers which fit them to make family life more in- 
telligent, more enjoyable, happier, more productive, — productive in 
every sense, physically, mentally, and spiritually." Time was when 
Dr. EHot himself did not believe in higher education for women, as is 
shown by an episode said to have taken place in a Harvard faculty 
meeting. President Eliot had been pleading the cause of Radclifle, 
then known as " The Annex." One of the professors remarked that he 
remembered a similar meeting held in that very room some ten years 
before, when the chair had expressed an opinion exactly the opposite. 
"Well, sir," said Dr. Eliot, "if you are interested in that as a matter of 
history, I am very glad. As for myself, I hope I have learned some- 
thing in ten years. We will proceed to vote," etc. He has become one 
of our strongest advocates and we desire to justify his faith in us. 

And what does study of the present condition of college women 
show us? We find the classics and mathematics deserted, after the 
requirement of the first college years has been passed, except by those 
who have marked talent for these studies or who wish to fit themselves 
to teach them. We find them electing enthusiastically courses in 



128 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

history, sociology, economics, and literature, cultural courses all, and 
tending to fit the students to fill their places in the social community 
to which they must go on leaving college. And we find many alumnae 
engaging in sociological work to such an extent that this is becoming a 
profession rivaUng that of teaching, as eminently fit and proper for 
the educated woman. 

What place does science fill? In my own college. Smith, a year's 
work in either chemistry or physics is required of every student; a 
class usually divides itself about evenly between the two subjects. 
Thereafter all work in these departments is elective. This year about 
25 per cent of the class in elementary chemistry have continued it and 
20 per cent will continue it through the rest of their college course. 
This is 10 per cent of the whole class. I suppose similar statistics 
could be gathered in other colleges. My study of the catalogs of our 
eastern colleges divides them into two classes: Those which teach, 
and those which do not teach, Home Economics. The former, such 
as Simmons and Teachers College, might be called technical schools; 
the latter, colleges of liberal arts. These technical schools are doing 
a splendid work, not only in training women for a professional career, 
but in raising the standard of living and in applying to daily tasks 
intelligent methods, lifting the drudgery of housekeeping by applying 
the scientific methods of the laboratory. The agricultural colleges are 
ofifering courses to the farmers' wives. At a reception in Geneseo a 
few years ago a woman spoke enthusiastically of a recent lecture 
which had been given by Miss Van Rensselaer of the New York State 
College of Agriculture and said, "I find I have been feeding my family 
on the things I ought not to have fed them on. I thought I was giv- 
ing them of the best, whereas it was the worst possible combination. I 
am going to change." Perhaps she was reforming on insufficient 
knowledge but surely the desire that her family should benefit by the 
improved methods was praiseworthy. Cooking and sanitary science 
are being introduced into the grammar and preparatory schools all 
over the country. 

In the meantime what are our colleges of liberal arts for women 
doing to give their students a share in the widespread desire for better 
living conditions? Almost without exception they offer a single course 
only, and that in food analysis, of three or five hours in a single 
semester! This course was introduced as a concession to the demands 
of alumnae, is taken only by the most advanced students in chemistry, 
and is of an exceedingly technical character. 



1912] Biochemistry in the College for Women 129 

What about the large numbers who graduate without taking more 
than the required chemistry? What of those who have taken no chem- 
istry at all? Many of these begin at once to teach. They have not 
increased their knowledge of the benefits of science as applied to the 
welfare of man. Is it not possible to introduce courses of less techni- 
cal character? Statistics say that there are some 75,000 women in 
the colleges of the country. They should be the leaders, trained in 
logical thinking \nth. power of concentrating their attention on the 
matter in hand. Could we infect them with our enthusiasm for scien- 
tific housekeeping, there would be no household problems! 

Professor Giddings defines the home as the place of development of 
the social individual, economic and cultural. We have misplaced the 
emphasis hitherto; we are devoting our energies to the city and state 
as the place of development of the individual rather than to the home. 
Public agencies have long been at work for his cultural development and 
now measures are being urged for his economic development. The 
economic valuation of a man is $20,000. This is based upon efficiency, 
which is largely a matter of education and health, assets for which we 
are all eager. The value of education we have long recognized 
and have provided for in our school systems; the importance of health 
is now coming to our attention. Modern methods are preventive 
rather than curative. We have discovered a new truth in the old 
adage, "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." In olden 
times a surgeon washed his hands after an operation; now he washes 
them before! Insurance companies are providing nurses for their 
sick policy holders, a well man being of more value to them that a sick 
man. In the crowded city districts mothers are given instruction 
about the care of their babies and milk suited to the need of each 
child is provided at small cost. These precautions, education and 
proper diet, have tremendously decreased the infant mortality. 

There is a carefully regulated diet for the invalid. But what about 
the well man? Does he not need the right food, food suited to his 
occupation to keep him in fit condition in order that he may live at 
the point of maximum efl5ciency? Nature has given each of us a 
wide margin. Modem surgery removes organs and transplants organs 
and yet active Ufe continues. We can best conserve life by conserving 
the energy which comes from the food we eat and the air we breathe. 
We have opened our windows and are less afraid of a draft than we are 
of breathing vitiated air, but we have not yet very generally given 
thought to the food we eat. As long as it is cooked according to fa- 



130 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

miliar standards, we accept it. President Jesse said in 1905 that 
"women are the prime factors in society and should realize that life 
for themselves and others rests upon a physical basis and that life and 
health depend in large degree upon the choice of food, the preparation 
of it, household sanitation, and household economics." We have not 
universally accepted this point of view. The attitude of the ordinary 
individual is well illustrated by a discussion between two students on 
the relation of chemistry and zoology. "Why," said one, "there is 
no relation. Zoology is life and chemistry is atoms!" 

What we need to convince people of is that chemistry is life, that it 
is fundamental, and that it enters into all the reactions of living. 
Panama has become a health resort through the agency of the scien- 
tist. The chemistry of foods, the chemistry of life, animal and vege- 
table — biochemistry to use the new term — is very complex and it was 
not possible to teach it as a science until organic chemistry, pure and 
simple, had done its work of analysis and synthesis. But Pasteur, 
Fische, Kossel, Ehrlich, to mention only a few, have shoved ahead our 
knowledge of the carbohydrates, the proteins, the pigments, and the 
metabolic processes in the cell until now we have the material at hand 
for some scientific study of foods and food values in our college labor- 
atories. 

William H. Edwards, commissioner of street cleaning in New 
York City, is reported as saying this to the Vassar students: 

The housewife plays a more important part than she realizes in keeping the 
streets of our cities clean. Her standards of cleanliness in the home must be in 
evidence outside the house. Regularity in the output reduces congestion of refuse; 
proper separation of refuse adds to the sanitary conditions of removal. No woman 
who is a good housekeeper will throw papers or waste in the street, and most street 
litter was first thrown away by some thoughtless hand. Her husband will not 
throw his newspaper in the street. Her children will not litter our thoroughfares 
with all sorts of rubbish but will take a certain pride in helping to keep the streets 
clean. 

The teachers in our public schools have the influencing of the children largely in 
their hands. Every teacher has the opportunity to teach patriotism to every little 
citizen by training him in loyal thought regarding his own city. She need go no 
further at first. 

At Smith College in the department of chemistry we beheve that 
scientific work is cultural; that scientific habits of thought are liberal- 
izing; that it is possible to lay the foundations for a professional career 
whether that career be home-keeping or industrial chemistry. The 
course in general chemistry may be followed by a course of lectures 



19 1 2] Biochemistry in the College for Women 131 

on the applications of chemical facts and principles to common life. 
We have a course in sanitary chemistry, a very technical course, such 
as is given at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one which 
makes a student familiar ^^^th the methods in use in our government 
and analytical food laboratories and which studies the problems of 
public health. We have also a course running through the year in 
what we have called "studies in fermentation." Here the study of 
the carbohydrates and the relation of the yeast cell to the carbohy- 
drates takes us into the domain of biochemistry. Molds and bacteria 
follow naturally. After we have learned the technique of bacteriology 
we isolate and study the organisms gathered on a Petri-dish during a 
few seconds exposure in a room just swept or one just vacated by a 
class. We isolate and study the organisms collected from the daily 
supply of milk. Our constant object is to compare the standard un- 
contaminated material with the fermented or changed material. The 
importance of the by-product is dwelt upon and the relation of the 
reaction "in \atro" to the reaction "in vivo" is emphasized. Much of 
the reading in connection with the course has to be magazine reading 
and this too lays stress upon the fact that most of this work is recent, 
although the beginnings date far back before there was any science 
of chemistry. 

There has been one une.xpected development of this course in which 
the faculty of the department are interested. Fifty per cent of the 
students have entered laboratories as assistants or have gone to 
medical schools. There seems here a rapidly enlarging field for women 
workers. The eagerness with which these opportunities are sought 
show how ill adapted many of our alumnae feel for teaching. It is 
no part of our intention to become distinctly a training school for 
technical chemists and yet our students want to know that the long 
afternoons spent in the laboratory do prepare them if necessary to do 
a real work with a papng wage. In our academic circles as elsewhere 
the stamp of success is that it pays. There seems to be slowly devel- 
oping a consciousness of the importance of this kind of work for women, 
and opportunities for its practice are rapidly increasing. It is an inter- 
esting development and as such we shall do what we can to make it 
prosper. It is not, however, our chief aim. Our chief aim is to give 
these students a liberal culture, to develop such trained minds that 
logical thinking and sound opinions can be brought to the solution of 
the problems which they meet. The most absorbing work of our re- 
search laboratories today is bridging the gap beween the chemistry 



132 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

of the test tube and the chemistry of the Hving cell, the most wonder- 
ful laboratory of all. But we know that the discovery today in the 
laboratory is the commonplace necessity of the world tomorrow. 
Already much of this biochemical metabolism is familiar to us and its 
application has revolutionized many industrial and agricultural proc- 
esses. Why should we allow these women to go out without the 
faintest inkling of the existence of these discoveries? Why should 
they perpetuate the theory that alcohol and carbondioxide are the 
sole products of the fermentation of sugar when the hst of known 
by-products is already large and we are not yet at the end? 

We are constantly hearing about the high cost of living. Mrs. 
Richards said it should be the "cost of high living." Whichever it is, we 
read about commissions of national and international scope appointed 
to investigate these matters and find a solution. Crops are large, 
we have world markets, and yet prices continue to go up. Let us 
inform the women; they are the buyers, very largely, and as such affect 
the supply and demand. If they were resourceful and could substitute 
some other method in the household for the one which no longer pays, 
as is the way in the industrial world, this dif&culty of the high cost of 
living would largely disappear. It is not protection by government 
that we need so much as a wider education in the practical things of 
daily living. Pasteur gave his attention to the infinitely little and 
left the world his everlasting debtor. What is the use in spending 
years in the study of literature and art only to find ourselves at the 
end of it unable to cope with the industrial condition in our own house- 
hold! Why try to regenerate the so-called slums all the winter, 
when we are ourselves forced to live in a summer boarding house where 
dairy and culinary methods are the methods of our grandmothers? 
First reform our own homes, then reform others. Demand for more 
up-to-date methods, bacterial and chemical, would stimulate the 
supply and decrease the cost. But we cannot demand that of which 
we know nothing. Let us educate the women in our colleges in the 
practical art of living, make them leaders, pioneers, missionaries if 
you will, for more rational conditions in all matters which pertain to 
living. 



SOME IMPORTANT CONSIDERATIONS IN THE FEEDING 
OF YOUNG CHILDREN.^ 

E. V. McCOLLUM. 
University of Wisconsin. 

Those who are interested in applying the best established scientific 
principles of nutrition to the feeding of infants find, on reading the 
literature, a most bewildering array of practices advocated by those 
who have felt competent to give advice on this most important sub- 
ject. At one extreme is the method of Biedert^ which has been closely 
approximated in the instructions widely circulated in this country 
for the guidance of mothers. A top milk containing from 8 to lo 
per cent of fat is employed as a basis for compounding the ration, 
which is made during the first month by diluting this fat-rich milk with 
three times its volume of water and adding milk sugar in the propor- 
tion of 36 grams per liter. This type of ration is the result of the 
belief, at one time almost universal and still widely prevalent, that 
the casein of cow's milk is especially diflicult of digestion in the stomach 
of the human infant. 

Opposed to this view are the teachings of Heubner,' who urges that 
healthy children can be fed large amounts of the proteins of cow's milk 
without harm. He holds that excess of fluids is especially to be 
avoided, and is much more harmful than an excess of proteins. 
Heubner's method of preparing rations is to dilute one volume of 
cow's milk with one-half volume of oatmeal or barley water. 

The recent researches of Czerny* have fully confirmed the contention 
of Heubner respecting the lack of harm resulting from feeding casein 
of cow's milk. He has gone much further, however, and has shown 
conclusively that, contrary to the older views, fat and not protein 
is the disturbing constituent in the rations of young children. Bren- 

* Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 191 1. 

* Kinder ernahrung im Sauglingsallfr, 4th ed., Stuttgart, 1900. 

* Sauglingsernahrung und Sauf^lungs-Spitaler, Berlin, 1897. 

* Jahrbuchfiir Kinder heilkunde, vol. 49. 

^33 



134 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

nemann and Walls^ in this country, have fully confirmed Czerny's 
observations and have advocated the feeding of whole milk poor in 
fat. Walls in an extensive practice observed even premature infants 
to digest satisfactorily whole skimmed milk. The U. S. Public Health 
and Marine Hospital Service has recently strongly emphasized the 
rationality of this plan of infant feeding in a most excellent discussion 
of the principles of infant feeding by Dr. J. W. Schereschewsky.® 

The discovery that fat is the disturbing constituent is distinctly the 
result of scientific nutrition studies. The well established facts 
concerning the deportment of excessive quantities of fat in the diges- 
tive tract of an infant are as follows : It tends to remain in the stom- 
ach longer than do proteins or carbohydrates, and even in moderate 
amounts tends to delay the emptying of the stomach. This is an 
important matter when, as in the young infant, the feeding periods 
follow closely upon each other. While it is in the stomach it is highly 
probable that no fat digestion takes place, as the recent investigations 
of London'' have shown. This long retention of the food allows the 
stomach little or no rest before another meal is introduced, and it may 
not be prepared to secrete a new supply of hydrochloric acid without 
some delay. This is frequently the beginning of the child's digestive 
disturbances. The hydrochloric acid which the stomach normally 
produces as soon as food is introduced serves to check promptly the 
action of any micro-organisms which may be present. In the absence 
of this acid bacteria begin at once to develop, generating gas to give 
colic, and abnormal acids which give rise to "sour" stomach. 

After passing int-^ the intestine, a large part of the fats of the food 
are cleaved into fatty acids and glycerine, by the lipolytic enzyme 
of the pancreas. The fatty acids readily form, with the calcium and 
magnesium present, the same insoluble soaps produced by soaps in 
hard water. Of all the food principles fats and the insoluble soaps 
formed from them are the most difficult of absorption, and accumulat- 
ing in the large intestine are the cause in many instances of the per- 
sistent constipation so common in young children. The apparent 
curds in the stools of young children are now known to consist ordi- 
narily of soaps, fats, and fatty acids. Under these conditions the child 
loses not only a considerable part of the fat of the food, but also suffers 

^Journal of the American Medical Association (1907), vol. 48; ibid., p. 1389. 
* U. S. Public Health and Marine Hospital Service Bulletin 41. 
^ Zeitschrififiir physiologische Chemie, 50, p. 125. 



1912 The Feeding of Young Children 135 

a depletion of the calcium supply of its body, so essential at this time 
for bone formation. 

Nature supplies in milk an adequate supply of both acid and basic 
elements, with a slight preponderance of the latter. When however 
there is a loss of lime through the intestine as soaps, an e.xcess of acid 
elements is left which must be gotten rid of through the kidneys. 
When we add to the above the fact that fats are oxidized with more 
difficulty in the body for heat and energy production than are sugars 
and proteins, the logic of employing fat-poor milks in infant feeding 
becomes apparent. Clinical experience in this country and abroad 
has serv^ed to strengthen the case against the practice of feeding milks 
rich in fat or rations prepared by modifying top milks. 

The methods of infant feeding in which the rations are prepared by 
diluting top milks containing from 8 to 10 per cent of fat and adding 
milk sugar are, in the light of modern knowledge, open to serious crit- 
icism for another reason. It has long been assumed, because the 
salts of cow's milk are present to the extent of more than three times 
the amount found in human milk, that dilution does not lead to an 
abnormal salt mixture in the ration of the child. While this is true 
so far as the total quantity of salts present in the final mixture are con- 
cerned, it is now well known that a serious alteration in the character 
of the salt mixture is effected by this procedure. Kastle^ has recently 
studied the balance between the acids and bases present in the salts 
of human and of cow's milk, and has shown that while the quantity of 
salts in cow's milk is much higher than in human milk the degree of 
alkalinity in the total mixture is almost identical in both. In diluting 
top milks according to certain systems in common use the alkalinity 
of the ash mixture given to the infant may be reduced to a half or a 
third that supplied by a ration of mother's milk. Just how serious 
may be the consequences of thus disturbing the nice balance between 
the acids and bases supplied in normal milk cannot be stated with 
certainty, but we are justified in warning against the possibility of 
danger in feeding an infant a monotonous ration departing so widely 
in this respect from the normal standard. 

The widespread use of proprietary infant foods calls for a brief dis- 
cussion. The "baby foods" are of two general classes. The so- 
called complete foods are made up of condensed milk and sugar, or of 
milk evaporated to dr>'ness and compounded with partly dextrinized 

• American Journal of Physiology, 22 (1908). 



136 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

flours. In malted milks the carbohydrate is principally malt sugar. 
Now milk cannot be evaporated to dryness without losing in some 
degree its appetizing and nutritious qualities, as the proteins become 
altered in the process. Anyone who will give the matter serious con- 
sideration should realize from personal experience the difference in 
dietary value between fresh animal proteins and the corresponding 
"denatured" articles of commerce. The imiversal verdict of those 
who have had large opportunity for observation is that infants fed on 
such preparations alone and for some time are less resistant to infec- 
tions and show evidences of malnutrition, especially rickets and scurvy. 
All such mLxtures are made up by formulas supposed to secure an 
appropriate "balance" between protein, carbohydrates, and fat, but 
an investigation now in progress has convinced the writer that in the 
great variations from the mineral salt mLxture supplied by whole milk 
which are found in some of the preparations sold as infant foods may 
be found an adequate reason for the physiological insufficiency. 

In the second class are the malted and farinaceous foods. These 
are sold to be used with fresh milk. There is nothing to be said against 
their use except their price, which is exorbitant, and that there is 
always an element of fraud in the use of the word "food" in the adver- 
tising matter which sells the article or which guides the mother in their 
use. The uninformed are led to believe that the "food" possesses some 
special physiological properties which make it and not the milk with 
which it is fed the more important constituent of the child's diet. In 
reality it is now a matter of common knowledge among dietitians that 
these "foods" have no advantage over barley, oatmeal, or the simpler 
carbohydrates, which can be had at ordinary food prices. 

It should be emphasized repeatedly in all courses in dietetics that of 
all foods having special properties in inducing growth and health in 
the young, nothing derived from the animal or vegetable kingdoms 
can compare with fresh, clean milk. Milk is a complete food and needs 
no supplements. The writer kept a pig fresh from its mother on fat- 
free milk alone during seventeen months. During this period she 
developed in a perfectly normal manner, reaching a weight of 406 
pounds at the age of thirteen months, at which time she gave birth 
to ten normally developed pigs and, continuing on the milk ration, 
suckled them to the normal weaning time. Experienced animal 
husbandmen predicted that she would suffer malnutrition, but all 
who saw her when full-grown pronounced her normal in every respect. 



1912] The Feeding of Young Children 137 

It is a mistake to assume that some other ingredient is necessary or 
desirable in the early months of life. 

The thing of greatest importance is that the milk be clean. We 
have become so accustomed to milk which will keep but a few hour3 
without souring, even in a refrigerator, that our standard of cleanli- 
ness in milk for infants is too low. A short time ago a customer of the 
dairy bam of the University of Wisconsin started on a trip to the Paci- 
fic coast with a young infant. Fearing to give the child milk of un- 
certain quality secured en route the father brought to the dairy bam 
a bottle sterilized by heat and it was filled by milking directly into it 
from a clean udder. No extraordinary precautions were taken, but the 
infant was fed on this milk during the entire trip which lasted three 
days, and some of the milk left over was reported to have been still 
sweet three days later. During the Paris Exposition a sample of milk 
collected with great care to avoid contamination was taken from the 
Illinois Experiment Station to Paris without heating, and was exhibited 
there and brought back in a fresh condition. It is not possible, ordi- 
narily, to obtain milk of this character for infant feeding, but it is 
easily possible, if the public will demand it, to secure milk which will 
keep perfectly in an ordinar}^ refrigerator at least twice as long as do 
the better grades of market milks at present. If this were realized a 
very great deal of the suffering and mortality among young children 
would be avoided. 

It is astonishing to see the lack of common sense sometimes displayed 
by parents and even physicians in deciding how to feed an infant that 
is not growing, and with which something is e\adently wrong. A 
chemist is employed to analyse the milk, and the departure of his fig- 
ures from the normal values for any constituent is made the reason or 
excuse for changing to artificial feeding. The writer has had frequent 
requests for such analyses but has refused for several years to make 
them. Instead the following advice is given free: Spend the money 
which the analysis would cost for an accurate scale with which to 
weigh the baby. Weigh it frequently and record the weights as 
taken. If it stops growing and manifests signs of distress apparently 
due to diet, weigh it before and after nursings to ascertain whether it is 
getting too little, too much, or a normal amoimt of food. In deter- 
mining this consult the tables in some of the books written by reputable 
physicians for the guidance of mothers. If the child is getting an 
insufficient quantity it must be fed to supplement the breast feeding, 



138 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

which should be continued. Feed it fresh, clean, fat-poor milk, cer- 
tified if possible, diluted according to the age of the infant. Begin 
with it quite dilute and gradually give it stronger as the child shows 
that it can take it. If the child obtains from nursing the quantity of 
milk given in the statistical tables as normal for that age and is not 
growing or is in distress the milk is probably of poor quality, and again 
a change should be made to supplementary partial feeding. 

If an infant is over eating, it should readily become evident to those 
who observe it closely. Regurgitation and vomiting appears, at first 
soon after feeding; later this is delayed and becomes a part of a general 
dyspeptic condition. These, with short intervals of restless sleep 
and periods of colic, should indicate the need of limiting the food 
intake and temporarily lengthening the intervals between feedings. 

This may seem radical to many, but it is certainly more logical than 
to determine the method of procedure on a single analysis of a sample 
of milk. It is well known that various causes may lead to a deficiency 
of the milk supply and also to an abnormal composition. The mental 
state of the mother at times when it is desirable to obtain a sample for 
the chemist are usually just such as would lead to the collection of an 
abnormal sample, and accordingly the remedial measures adopted 
from the chemist's findings may be based on wrong assumptions. 

A word should also be said here regarding the diet during the much 
dreaded second summer. This is the time when the vigilance of the 
careful mother begins to relax, and it is to errors in the diet that most 
of the disorders of this period are traceable. Safety should still be the 
watchword. While considerable variety may be given, everything 
should be selected with a view to protecting the still relatively feeble 
digestive tract from infection. The same care as to the cleanliness of 
the milk supply and as to proper refrigeration should be given as dur- 
ing the child's earlier life. Cereals, bread, broths, and a few well 
cooked vegetables are all that is necessary to supplement the regular 
milk diet. No food other than milk yields sufficient bone building 
materials, and milk should therefore hold a prominent place in the 
diet of the child all through the growing period. If the child refuses 
to drink milk, it should be given foods prepared with milk. Under no 
circumstances permit a child to discontinue the use of milk during the 
growing period. The unfortunate experiences of this period are usu- 
ally traceable to lack of vigilance in the care of the milk, or to feeding 
unsafe foods such as partly ripe fruits, uncooked berries, salads, etc. 



19 1 2] The Feeding of Young Children 139 

Lastly, I would call your attention to the fact that the powers of 
growth dwindle rapidly and steadily from birth onward, and any cessa- 
tion of growth, even for a short time, should be regarded with con- 
cern. The earlier in life the more precious is each day. Parents 
should make it a part of their duty to ascertain by careful weighings 
at proper intervals that growth is going on, and at a normal rate. If 
a cessation occur, remedial measures should be promptly taken to pre- 
vent any long break in the normal course of growth. 



THE NUTRITIVE VALUE OF SEAWEEDS/ 

Mary D. Swartz Rose. 
Asst. -Professor of Nutrition, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

In many parts of the world the seaweed industry is a very important 
one. Tons of algae are gathered annually in China, Japan, and the 
East Indies, in the Hawaiian Islands, in France, Ireland, Scotland, and 
other European countries. While utilized to some extent in the arts, 
their chief significance lies in their extensive use as food for man. In 
Japan alone, according to the published reports of the Bureau of 
Fisheries, the value of the prepared seaweeds exceeds $2,000,000 an- 
nually, and it has been suggested that in the United States and the 
Hawaiian Islands, which are equally rich in marine plants, much 
greater commercial benefit might be derived from them than is the 
case at present if it could be clearly shown that they are really valuable 
as foodstuffs. 

Until quite recently, little was known either in regard to their chem- 
ical composition or their food value, but methods of preparing them 
for the table are very old. In Japan, algae in general are called 
"nori," and this term appears in the names of products derive'd from 
them as funori, amanori, and the like. Among the most important 
seaweed preparations are kanten, kombu, amanori, and wakame. 

Kan ten is made from algae of the genus Gelidium, the various species 
of which yield a mass of jelly on boiling. This is strained off, dried, 
and sold in sticks or bars of different styles. It is used for food largely 
in the form of jellies or as thickening in soups and sauces, and the con- 
sumption is by no means limited to Japan. In the scientific world it 
is known as agar-agar, serving as a familiar culture medium in the 
bacteriological laboratory. 

^ Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December, 191 1. For full details of the experimental work see the 
author's paper, Nutrition Investigation on the Carbohydrates of Lichens, Algae, 
and Related Substances, Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts and Sciences, 16 (1911), pp. 
247-382. 

140 



1912] Nutritive Valtie of Seaweeds 141 

Food preparations from kelps are known as kombu, made in Japan 
for more than two centuries. There are a dozen different forms, each 
with its own particular flavor and use. Some are eaten dry, others 
soaked in water, sugared, cooked Anth meat, or added to soups, sauces, 
and other dishes; in fact, kombu is one of the standard foods of the 
country. 

Amanori is made from red laver, for many years cultivated for 
the purpose. Small quantities are eaten fresh, but the bulk of the 
product is sun dried in thin sheets after sorting and chopping. Before 
eating it is made crisp by heating, and then crushed between the hands 
and dropped into sauces, soups, or broths to impart flavor. At 
railway stations sheets of amanori spread with boiled rice and covered 
with meat or fish, rolled and cut into transverse slices, take the place 
of the American sandwich. 

In Hawaii, edible algae are called "limu." Of these over seventy 
distinct species are used for food, more than half of these being very 
commonly so employed. No Hawaiian feast is ever considered com- 
plete without these "nymphs of the sea" which are to the nation the 
synonym for all that is delicious. They are eaten in many ways; un- 
cooked, as a relish with meats or fish; cooked, in soups or roasted with 
meats and fish. Among the most popular are limu eleele, limu kohu, 
limu lipoa, limu huna, limu akiaki, and limu manauea. 

Limu eleele is a general favorite, being eaten with almost every- 
thing, generally uncooked, and so taking the place of our salads in the 
menu. It is sometimes dropped into hot gra\7-, broth, or meat stew 
just before serving. 

Limu kohu is sold in the form of globular masses about the size of 
a baseball. In preparation for the market it is slightly fermented and 
acquires a somewhat sour taste. It is pounded, mixed with salt, and 
eaten with fresh fish. 

Limu lipoa is popular on account of its spicy flavor and is frequently 
used as a condiment, taking the place of sage and pepper in the Ha- 
waiian dietary. Limu huna is especially prized for boiling wdth squid 
or octopus. Limu manauea and limu akiaki jdeld large amounts of 
a clear mucilaginous extract which forms a fine jelly on cooling. The 
same is true of limu kohu and limu huna. These extracts are consid- 
ered especially fine for thickening broths. 

Many of the seaweeds used in Japan and Hawaii occur also along 
the coast of the United States and Europe and are to some extent 
used as food, but the only ones of enough importance to mention are 



142 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Irish moss, purple laver, and dulse. Irish moss or carragheen, the 
"tsimomata" of Japan, has long been used as a food stuff in Ireland. 
In this country' it is found on the Atlantic coast from North Carolina to 
Maine, being especially abundant north of Cape Cod. It is used in 
cookery chiefly for making blancmange. Red laver, the source of 
Japanese amanori, is found in abundance on the rocky shores of Amer- 
ica and Europe generally, but is not used in this country save sparingly 
by the Chinese, who usually import it directly from China, and by some 
of the Indians of our northwest coast. In Ireland it is known as 
"sloak" and is eaten as a vegetable, boiled and seasoned with butter, 
pepper, and vinegar, or combined with leeks and onions. Dulse is 
found abundantly on our o"v\ti rocky coasts, especially in New England, 
and also on the rough shores of Great Britam. In this country it is 
usually sun dried with the salt water adhering and eaten as a relish. 
In Scotland it has long played a more prominent part, "a dish of dulse 
boiled in milk" being styled the best of all vegetables. 

It has seemed worth while to investigate the nutritive properties of 
materials so widely used as food, not only because they already enter 
into the dietary of many people, but also because if their nutritive value 
were as great as is commonly believed, a wider use of such compar- 
atively cheap materials would be economically advantageous, and also 
because they are frequently recommended as nutrients in disease, 
where the character of the diet assvmies very great importance. 

Published analyses show that the fresh algae contain about 80 per 
cent water, 3 per cent protein, 14 per cent carbohydrate and 4 per 
cent ash, hence they would seem to compare favorably with other 
green vegetables as foodstuffs. It is not safe, however, to assiune that 
substances reported as protein, fats, and carbohydrate in a proximate 
analysis are necessarily capable of utilization by the animal organism. 
There is, on the one hand, a possibility that the nutrients may be un- 
available on account of physical conditions which interfere with diges- 
tion and assimilation, cellulose structures, as is well known, preventing 
complete absorption of foodstuffs in many vegetable products; and on 
the other hand, the usual methods of analysis do not distinguish be- 
tween true proteins and nitrogenous bodies in general, nor between fats 
and other ether-soluble substances and do not discriminate among 
carbohydrates except in the case of the more resistant cellulose. It is 
well known that the nitrogenous material of mushrooms, once so 
highly regarded that this plant was called the "vegetable beefsteak," 



19 1 2] Nutritive Value of Seaweeds 143 

is so small in amount and of such a nature that it is of practically 
no value to the body, and it has been shown that carbohydrates which 
seemed theoretically most easy of digestion, being perfectly soluble 
and easily hydrolyzed to dextrose or levulose, are not converted to 
sugar by the enzymes in the body, and unless hydrolzyed by the acid 
of the gastric juice, seem to have little chance of contributing to the 
nourishment of the body. 

In determining the nutritive value of any product it is therefore 
necessary to apply, besides mere chemical analysis other criteria, such 
as the action of the digestive fiuids, the action of bacteria, not only by 
experiments outside the body but by actually feeding the substances in 
question, and also by observing their fate when introduced directly into 
the blood stream without the intervention of the alimentary tract. 
Such investigations the author has carried out with a number of spe- 
cies of marine algae. Eight of these were obtained from Hawaii 
through the kindness of Miss Minnie Reed of the Kahahameha Manual 
Training School in Honolulu, and two (dulse and Irish moss) in our 
eastern markets. With the exception of three "limus" (eleele, pahapa- 
ha, and lipoa) all yielded considerable amounts of soluble carbohy- 
drates, sometimes only 4 or 5 per cent of insoluble material remaining, 
as for instance in the case of Irish moss, limu manauea, and limu huna. 

The carbohydrates of these algae are chiefly pentosans and galactans 
i.e., hemicelluloses yielding respectively pentose and galactose on 
hydrolysis. As a class, the hemicelluloses are distinguished from cel- 
lulose by hydrolysis on boiling with dilute mineral acid, and from other 
polysaccharids by their resistance to ordinary diastatic enzymes. 
They are frequently complex in character, being found in loose chem- 
ical combinations, so that the terms pentosan and galactan as used here 
refer to the chief component rather than to an absolutely pure sub- 
stance. All the gelatinizing extracts (those from Irish moss, limu 
huna, limu manauea, limu akiaki, Hmu uaualoli, and limu kohu), 
consist principally of galactans; from dulse a soluble pentosan was 
derived, which was not gelatinous; and the three hmus which did not 
yield water extracts consisted principally of pentosans. For experi- 
mental purposes these were simply ground as finely as possible. 

Artificial digestion experiments with human saliva, malt diastase, 
dog's pancreatic juice, pig's pancreatic extreact, and extracts of dog's 
intestines and pig's stomach showed that these enz^^mes had no hydro- 
lyzing effect upon any of these substances. With artificial gastric juice 



144 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

and "taka" diastase, long incubation resulted in slight hydrolysis in 
two instances, but controls showed that in the case of gastric juice the 
action was attributable to the acid present. 

When pure, dilute solutions of the galactans and pentosans were sub- 
jected to the action of various bacteria commonly occurring in the 
alhnentary tract, to mixtures of soil and fecal bacteria, and of powerful 
putrefactive anaerobes, for periods of three days under various favor- 
able conditions, there was neither sugar production nor loss of carbo- 
hydrate material. Irish moss remained unchanged when the incu- 
bation was continued for four weeks, but the pentosan of dulse dis- 
appeared to some extent in the cultures of soil and fecal anaerobes and 
aerobes and sugar was formed in cultures of two putrefactive anaerobes. 
It is evident that these hemicelluloses are as resistant to the action of 
bacteria as of digestive enzymes. It has been suggested that limu 
manauea, which yields a jelly firm at body temperature, might be used 
in bacteriological laboratories as a substitute for agar-agar, on ac- 
count of this high resistancy. 

When introduced into the alimentary tract of dogs and himian sub- 
jects as part of a cellulose-free diet, the pentosan of dulse disappeared 
almost completely in the man and only 25 per cent was recovered in 
the feces in the case of dogs. Of the seaweeds fed in toto (finely ground 
and thoroughly cooked to facilitate digestion) the results were similar, 
but the coefiicient of digestibility was lower, averaging 50 per cent 
owing doubtless to mechanical conditions and the greater resistance 
of the insoluble pentosans. The average coefi&cient of digestibility of 
the galactans was on the contrary only 26 per cent. Irish moss was 
excreted quantitatively in the case of human subjects, and even limu 
akiaki, which is hydrolyzed at body temperature by 0.2 per cent hydro- 
chloric acid showed a coefficient of digestibility of only 60 per cent. 

Comparison of the feeding experiments with the bacteriological 
investigations shows that the carbohydrates most readily attacked 
by bacteria disappear most completely from the digestive tract, and 
since the alimentary enzyms tried had no effect, it seems reasonable to 
consider this apparent digestibility in any given instance as due to the 
influence of the micro-organisms of the intestinal canal. 

There remains, however, the possibility of these substances being 
absorbed unaltered, and transformed into available compounds within 
the body proper. To test this point, parenteral injections both sub- 
cutaneous and intraperitoneal were made in small dogs, and the urine 
examined both before and after the operation. Solutions of the dulse 



1 9 1 2 ] Kaffir Corn for Human Food 145 

and Irish moss preparations were speedily and apparently completely 
recovered. The results were therefore in harmony with the accepted 
fact that the polysaccharids must be converted into monosaccharids 
before they can enter into the processes of intermediary metabolism. 
From such experiments it becomes evident that the solubility of a 
carbohydrate, or its gelatinizing power, is no guarantee of its digest- 
ibility or nutritive value. Aside from the possible benefit which may 
be derived from the high ash content, and from the fact that the undi- 
gested carbohydrates may have a useful function in counteracting 
constipation, owing to their power of retaining moisture or to their 
stimu'ating effect upon the intestinal secretions, it is impossible to 
attribute to them any important dietetic properties. They are to be 
regarded as food accessories rather than true nutrients. 

POSSIBILITY OF KAFFIR CORN FOR HUMAN FOOD.^ 

Blanche Ingersoll. 

Kansas Stale Agricultural College. 

Kaffir com, as well as other grain sorghums, has been commonly 
used as human food in Africa, India, and some parts of Asia; but 
practically the only application of this sort that has been made of 
it in this country is of the meal, ground locally and usually in the 
rural districts, and used in making batter cakes and similar articles. 

There seemed to be no reason why, if properly milled, Kaffir products 
should not be utilized more generally. It was for the purpose of 
discovering the possibilities in this direction that some experimental 
work was done at the Kansas State Agricultural College last spring. 
These experiments were conducted on such a small scale that no 
definite conclusions as to the details of the cookery of Kaffir corn 
could be reached, but they proved beyond a doubt that it has great 
possibilities. 

Analysis shows that the meal is very similar to corn meal but some- 
what deficient in protein. It makes a good substiture for corn meal 
and can be used to replace it in nearly every case. When used alone 
it requires considerable liquid to mix it, lacks sufficient gluten to 
hold together, and is rather harsh and somewhat tasteless; but when 
mixed with wheat flour which supplies the gluten the results are 

' Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 191 1. 



146 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

very successful. In most cases a mixture of two parts Kaffir to one 
part of wheat flour is good, and in practically all cases a mixture of 
half and half is successful. 

Black hull Kaffir flour, white durra flour, black hull Kaffir meal, 
and white durra meal were used in the experiments. Practically 
the only difference between the black hull Kaffir products and the 
white durra products as shown by the results was the darker color of 
the black hull variety which made the article less attractive to the 
eye. In case other coloring was added as molasses, egg yolks, etc., 
practically no difference was noticed. 

Recipes for Johnny cake, muffins, griddle cakes, Boston brown 
bread, and cakes were worked out. The mush was not very palatable 
as a cereal but was good when fried. As the supply of flour was 
limited no extensive experiments could be made with it. Recipes 
calling for wheat flour were used successfully without any change 
with the exception that the doughs — biscuits, cookies, etc. — required 
more Kaffir flour than they would have of wheat flour. 

Kaffir corn has a characteristic flavor which was very noticeable 
in some of the results, in some cases making the article more appe- 
tizing than otherwise. It seems rather out of place in biscuit but 
gives an excellent flavor to muffins and cup cake, and if used would 
give variety of flavor to the diet. In brown bread, gingerbread, 
sponge cake, molasses cookies, and similar recipes, the flavor of the 
Kaffir corn is only slightly noticeable and in some cases not at all. 

Because of the peculiar adaptability of Kaffir corn to the dry farm- 
ing region any further use of it or of its products is of especial interest 
and importance. 



THE POSSIBILITIES OF A HOME-MAKER'S COURSE.^ 
Juniata L. Shepperd. 

College of Agriculture, University of Minnesota. 

The expression "home-maker's course" may mean a high school 
course in which the program is so arranged as to oflfer a large number of 
subjects bearing especially on the home, and giving comparatively few 
so-called cultural subjects — just the opposite, in fact, of the usual high 
school course. The Minnesota Agricultural High School affords an 
example of such a course; and a very large percentage of its girl grad- 
uates return to their homes and use there their school-gained knowledge. 
On the other hand, the expression may mean a college course in which 
all the subjects offered are equal, in a scientific, cultural way, to those 
of other college courses, yet especially useful to the home-guard, the 
citizen-former, the chief feeder, clothier, and trainer of human kind; 
such a course, in short, as prepares for teaching in a special profession 
and at the same time for meeting the responsibilities and solving the 
problems usually confronted in life. 

If each daughter in the land could have the benefit of one or more 
such courses, but few generations would pass before every woman 
would thoroughly appreciate the importance and magnitude of the 
home-maker's profession and be anxious to solve successfully all its 
problems. Educators can aid much in giving young people a right 
view of life, as the progress in agricultural pursuits plainly shows. 

An intelligent stock-raiser of the present time employs to feed and 
care for his stock such men as are capable of producing from good 
specimens of young animals the best adults of their kind. Hasten 
the day when the housewife can secure equally efficient help to aid 
in caring for the family, which collectively represents the most impor- 
tant of all animals. 

In order to bring about such a condition, education for home Hfe 
must be made universal. Men's vocations are varied, hence boys may 

'Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December, 191 1. 

147 



148 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

need multiple courses, but every girl should finish a well-planned 
home-maker's course before any other is offered. Such a course fits 
its graduates for the general life of a home-maker; and, as most 
women will choose home-making as their ultimate and lifelong work, all 
need such a course. Young women wishing to enter special profes- 
sions would readily find a suitable college course, and little time need 
be lost on account of having pursued the special home-maker's high 
school course, rather than the usual general one. 

In the present plan of education, very few subjects tending to en- 
lighten the student on specifically home duties are offered, and these 
few are not available to all. Furthermore, the subjects now offered 
occupy too little time to render every girl proficient in them. All 
mothers should be aroused to a full sense of their duty in this matter 
of educating the daughters, and of so arranging school courses as to 
magnify the daily duties of life. Closely uniting the instruction given 
in the home and at the school will aid in promoting this just and good 
cause. Children must have homes; meals must be prepared, clothing 
made, and all the varied activities of life carried on. Such can be taught 
in an educational way in the schools, but the lessons learned at school 
should be given practical application by the children in their homes. 

Other professions do not send out unpracticed workers; why should 
this profession, the most important of all? Young medical students 
are not permitted to practice without experience, and frequently each 
is required to act as "interne" at some hospital for at least one year. 
Why should young home-makers undertake their work with only a 
general education and no practice? The mothers are far more respon- 
sible for the health of families than are the doctors. 

The idea that the schools are wholly responsible for the education 
of our girls must be eradicated. Schools cannot do all this work, as 
experience has shown. They have earnestly tried to solve the problem, 
by including home-making subjects in their curricula and striving to 
render them popular. In some cases cooking and sewing are the only 
special subjects offered, and as each of these can be given only once 
a week, httle advance is made in elevating the standards of home 
work. Such courses should be comprehensive and thorough including 
many allied subjects and elucidating underlying sciences. Physiology, 
physics, chemistry, bacteriology, and many other subjects have a 
decided bearing on home work, and should be so taught as to show the 
application of their principles. It is a mistake to suppose that the 
domestic science teachers and the mothers can alone produce the most 
sucttssful home-makers. Every subject which bears on the home 



1912] Possibilities of a Home-Maker's Course 149 

must be taught in this relation, and made to give both practical and 
cultural value. Both patrons and pupils are desirous of more and 
better help from the public schools, as the following sample letters 
attest: 

(i) I took all the domestic science that was jffered in the school which I at- 
tended, but I find my knowledge inadequate for a housekeeper. — Young Bride. 

(2) I am very much interested in domestic science and home-making work in the 
public schools. Quite too little of this important subject is taught. I recognize 
the difficulty and slowness which will necessarily attend the introduction of this 
line of study in the country schools. There seems to be no reason, however, why 
a greater amount of time should not be given to it in the city schools. The subject 
should not only be placed in the public schools before the pupils have passed into 
the high school, but should be continued throughout the high school course. From 
the time the pupil enters the seventh grade to final graduation, the majority of 
both boys and girls have a great desire to 'make something' which may serve a use- 
ful purpose. An incident in our own family shows the importance of carrying this 
work through the entire school period. The pupil became very much interested in 
cooking while in the seventh and eighth grades and although the work was given 
but once a week became fairly proficient, taking considerable interest in the prac- 
tical part of carrying on the household. With her entrance to the high school, 
where she took up subjects not closely related to home problems, interest in the 
practical problems of the home ceased. In short, the practical side of home-making 
had few attractions when it was not linked with the educational features. Others 
have told me of similar instances in their families. These are lamentable conditions; 
and the subject seems of so much importance that I take the liberty of writing you 
in regard to it, hoping that you may exert your influence in the educational field in 
an effort to prevent such elimination of essential vocational studies, at a time when 
they are so much needed, and I believe wanted. — A Citizen. 

There are many such appeals, and those interested in the public 
welfare should do all in their power to better conditions now, while 
the work is popular and while men of influence are ready to aid in 
furthering this cause. Some cities offer domestic science in the high 
school as an optional to Latin. Why is not a similar arrangement 
possible in all such schools? Doubtless this would increase the ex- 
pense of school maintenance somewhat; but this matters little, if 
girls are thereby imbued with a love for home-making and are rendered 
more capable of performing their duties in life. It is generally easier 
to make a new garment than to remodel an old one. So it is with 
school courses; and, in the consolidated rural schools now just making 
their first appearance, there is opportunity for organizing in such a 
way as to suit new conditions and test suggested plans. All work 
on home subjects should be so arranged as to extend through at least 
three years; cooking and sewing should each occur at least twice a 



150 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

week. All practice-work should be such as to insure popularity with 
the patrons from the beginning. Sewing, which forms wearable gar- 
ments, and cooking, which prepares food from materials in general 
use in any special community, would, no doubt, meet this requirement 
and the course should include all subjects belonging to hygiene. 

All sciences should be taught in an applied way, and all subjects 
allied to the home should be given a place on the program. Such a 
course should be thorough, scientific, and useful, hence popular with 
the people and lasting in its benefits. 

These new schools should be primarily for the rural districts, just 
as the city high schools are primarily for the city districts. Teachers 
in these schools should understand not only general rural but also 
special local conditions. The farmer regards the agricultural colleges 
and high schools as his institutions; hence let all such institutions of 
learning make special efforts to gather together young women from 
the rural districts, and educate them for teachers in those consolidated 
schools, which already exist, and those which are soon to follow. 
Minnesota's last legislature provided for twenty-five such schools in 
this state in addition to the ten already existing. 

These institutions should prepare not only teachers for cooking and 
sewing, but for the allied subjects and the sciences underlying home- 
making; young women from the country, especially, should find train- 
ing here. Permanent success demands that home-making work be 
put on a scientific basis, as well as that it be popularized. Rural 
communities can be best led by their own people. As good raw mate- 
rial for teachers may be found in those communities as anywhere and 
the agricultural high schools and colleges can, by careful work in pro- 
perly educating girls in the one, for home-makers, and in the other, 
for teachers, evolve a new, needed, and appreciated home-maker's 
course. 

HOME ECONOMICS IN THE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.^ 

Jessie M. Hoover. 

Professor of Home Economics, North Dakota Agricultural College. 

While Home Economics did not have its origin in the agricultural 
college, these institutions have been quick to embrace this very neces- 

* Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December, 191 1. 



1912] Home Economics in the Agricultural College 151 

sary part of a curriculum which is both practical and scientific. In 
the new states of the west Home Economics is not only a live problem 
for the native American, but also a problem for the foreigner who 
comes to our fertile farm lands with little money or education but with 
a strong body, a willing hand, and a purpose to become a true and loyal 
citizen, and anxious to learn not only the methods of farming presented 
by the agricultural college, but also the customs of the homes. It is 
a noticeable fact that as our honest, hard-working Scandinavian popu- 
lation gains wealth, various members of the family or the friends are 
brought to America, and very often indeed as a first step the new- 
comer is taken to a shop and fitted out with clothing of our present 
day fashion. It is e\ident, therefore, that if the agricultural college 
of the West is to meet the needs of the community which it serves it 
cannot hope to do so by instruction of collegiate rank alone 

The agricultural college department of Home Economics must be 
practical, else instead of gaining ground its purpose is defeated and 
the student is made to feel that hand work is to be despised as un- 
worthy of the scientifically trained person. Neither must the splen- 
did facilities for scientific instruction be overlooked, for through 
federal and other aid the experiment station has become a valuable 
ally of the Home Economics work. Then too, almost all agricultural 
colleges oflfer excellent science courses in their departments of botany, 
zoology, physiology, bacteriology, chemistry, and physics. I would 
not advocate weakening these science courses, but rather adding a 
large amount of the practical as illustrative material. Most of the 
sciences are fast becoming adapted to the needs of the people ; physics 
seems to be the last to fall in line, but the old time laboratory methods 
are now being improved by the addition of illustrations which imply 
the application of physical laws to the problems of daily housekeeping. 

But if we provide only collegiate work for our students, what shall 
be done for the girls on the frontier who have no opportunities to do 
the required preparatory work, and from lack of preparatory schools 
may never become prepared to enter the college? It is evident that in 
the sparsely settled states the agricultural college must in some way 
furnish high school facilities that will prepare both the rural teacher 
and the average student for efficiency in Ufe, and in some cases for 
college entrance as well. Not only is a high school invaluable for the 
student who registers in its courses, but it may furnish an oppor- 
tunity for the senior in college to get methods and practice in teaching, 
for we must depend on the agricultural college to train many of the 



152 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

teachers who are to be in sympathy and harmony with agriculture and 
farm people and their homes. 

Another problem of the agricultural college is that from the very 
nature of the case the farm crops have not been harvested when the 
college year begins in September, and again the seeding must be done 
in the spring time long before commencement in June. This means 
that many a girl from the farm is deprived of both the beginning and 
the end of the school course. As the other students have had at least 
six weeks' start in the fall, the rural student feels that she is at a great 
disadvantage. This is sure to result in discouragement, and eventu- 
ally she may give up the fight. Therefore, if the agricultural college 
is to educate the farmers' children there is but one thing for it to do and 
that is to arrange a course which will meet the time requirements of the 
student from the farm. Hence most of the agricultural colleges have 
introduced the so-called "short course," which in most institutions is 
a three months' course. These courses are well attended and at a few 
of the colleges it has been concluded that if a farmer's daughter could 
attend three months she might also attend five or six months, and I 
know of no college in which the longer term has been tried that it has 
not been a great success. Indeed, in many states it has practically 
supplanted the old three months' course. Not only do the girls come 
for the first year, but they are ambitious to finish a three year course. 
The great problem of this course is to keep from running it into a trade 
school, so eager are these young people to learn to cook and sew and 
perform other household work by the best methods. Thus the prob- 
lem is, first, to create interest in the study of Home Economics from 
its practical view-point and then to continue this interest further into 
the allied sciences. How often these students have said, "I really 
had no idea that I could learn anything about bread and butter and 
meat and potatoes, but it is really wonderful to study about these 
foods." These young women represent intelligent and happy home 
makers and we can never have too many of them. 

Home Economics, however, cannot confine its help to those who 
come to the college, for if it is to meet the requirements of the great agri- 
cultural class we must recognize that those who must remain at home 
are just as worthy and pay just as much to support the institution, and 
to neglect them will be to lose an opportunity to aid the majority. 

One of the principal avenues of reaching them is through the rural 
schools, by contests, both in the growing of foodstuffs and the cook- 
ery of food. Here the agricultural college may cooperate with the 



1912] Home Economics in the Agricultural College 153 

county superintendent. He in turn endeavors to interest his teachers, 
and thus the district and later the whole county may have these con- 
tests. In Home Economics these contests may include breadmaking, 
canning, and sewing. After the contests are over the successful con- 
testants of each county may become eligible to attend the Boys' and 
Girls' Institute at the agricultural college. In North Dakota the 
Boys' and Girls' Institute was first held about a year ago and nearly 
ninety children were enrolled. The railroads gave them free trans- 
portation and the college gave free instruction. Who can tell what 
that two weeks meant to those girls as they came in their little print 
dresses to learn about foods and sewing and home hygiene? The 
county superintendents or their deputies acted as escorts from each 
county and they attended the classes with the children and were also 
benefitted. I shall never forget one little girl who had driven fifty 
miles to reach the nearest railroad station, and I am sure she will 
never forget that institute and the inspiration received. 

The farmers' institute and the extension department of the agri- 
cultural college are so closely allied that it seems difficult to separate 
them, and many times these two institutions work in conjunction. 
Some one has said that the weakest point in farmers' institute work 
is that although the interest is aroused, it comes but once a year and 
the listeners often fail to follow up the work. It is too much like a 
religious revival ser\dce in which enthusiasm is developed for the time, 
but is too apt to wane. Hence the importance of having the extension 
department follow immediately with the movable school, and this is 
a method which is applied not only to the agricultural work but also to 
that in Home Economics. In many localities the women's institutes 
are held separately from the men's institutes, in other locaUties they 
are held together, the number in attendance being the determining fac- 
tor. Following the state speakers at the institute, the college extension 
force begins a five or ten day session with short courses in domestic 
science and domestic art for the women and girls, and these movable 
schools are beginning to form a most valuable part of the extension 
work. The lessons are practical, and the woman who has charge must 
be one who loves her work and knows her people. She should be 
sympathetic and deeply and sincerely interested in the citizens of her 
state. In North Dakota one of our college department women usually 
goes, thus effecting a mutual acquaintance and helpfulness. 

A farmers' institute annual is published by almost every state, 
and as a generous portion of it is given to the discussion of Home Eco- 



154 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

nomics topics, not only does the farmer receive helpful information but 
his wife as well. Home Economics subjects which seem especially 
interesting to the rural communities are the canning and preserving of 
fruits, vegetables, and meats, pickling, bread making, leavening agents, 
laundry and cleaning suggestions, methods and principles of cookery, 
hygiene, home nursing, sanitation, and similar practical subjects. 

The farmer's club is a growing part of the social and intellectual life 
of the rural community. The agricultural college gladly cooperates 
with these clubs. On these occasions the farmers with their families 
usually gather at a central hall where they have lunch together at noon 
and then hold meetings in the afternoon. As the women and children 
are present, they receive their full share of the time on the program. 
It has been my experience that no subject so much appeals to these 
clubs as food values and balanced rations, and men and women are 
alike interested. 

At the farmers' clubs the local talent exchange ideas as to improved 
methods of work. At one place I \dsited there was a splendid-looking 
display of canned vegetables, and the lady who had done the canning 
said proudly to her audience, "I did it with this," holding up a small 
package of "canm'ng powder." It is on these occasions that the 
scientifically trained college woman must use great tact, and it is here 
that she feels as never before that it is one thing for the pure food laws 
to require truthfiil labels on foodstuffs and drugs, but quite another 
thing for the consumer to appreciate the full meaning of the labels. 
It is here that the agricultural college and experiment station comes 
to the rescue of the consumer on the farm. 

Correspondence courses also come within the field of these state 
institutions, for it is their duty to serve the whole people and to do it 
at a minimum ot expense. Women are becoming greatly interested 
in this part of the Home Economics work. 

The summer school and teachers' institute in the co-educational 
agricultural college is not considered complete without instruction in 
Home Economics. I have been interested to note that 75 per cent 
of the teachers enrolled in North Dakota have elected this work even 
though they were not required to take it to get their certificates. 

Perhaps one of the most interesting features of the Home Economics 
instruction outside of the college walls is the work done on the special 
trains. Last year this work was undertaken in a large number of 
states. A full discussion of the methods followed cannot be attempted 
here, but suffice it to say that the interest is intense and no agri- 



1912] Extension Work in Kansas 155 

cultural college should allow an opportunity to pass unheeded to send 
a Home Economics car on the special train. 

In the World's Work for November are illustrations of some of these 
cars, among them the North Dakota Home Economics car. Among 
the articles exhibited were dress patterns, a library, exhibits showing 
food composition, household conveniences, lighting, heating, and 
plumbing plants, all in miniature, working models showing how the 
farm home can be made modern, a sanitary exhibit showing plates of 
bacteria grown from a drop of well water, and a graphic illustration of 
the necessity of ventilation. Who shall say how much this means to 
those far away from the advantages of the city? 

The work in Home Economics is also extended to the state and 
county fairs, where it should be placed in the agricultural building to 
insure that those for whom it is especially intended may have the 
opportunity to see it. The girls' camps held in connection with the 
extension departments in a few of the states, the work in women's 
clubs, Chatauquas, etc., all are likewise in the field of this department. 

The last feature of the work which I shall mention is presented to 
farm women through the avenue of farm journals and this is one of the 
principal methods of teaching Home Economics. The knowledge 
that the article came from the agricultural college means much to the 
country woman for she feels that it is not the production of a theorist 
but of a practical institution whose chief aim is the efficient manage- 
ment of the methods of work in the farm home. 

HOME ECONOMICS EXTENSION WORK IN KANSAS.^ 
Mary Pierce Van Zile. 

Kansas Stale Agricultural College. 

President Waters of the Kansas State Agricultural College in 
his recent inaugural address touched the keynote of public sentiment 
when he said, "While it is of paramount importance that the college 
gives thoroughly sound instruction to the young men and young 
women in residence, it is equally true that its activities must not 
end there. More and more must the college be cariied to the people 
since but a small proportion of those who should avail themselves 
of its advantages can leave home." 

• Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 191 1. 



iS6 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

In accordance with this idea, the extension work at the Kansas 
College has been emphasized from the very beginning of President 
Waters' administration. Previous to this time Home Economics 
extension work had been done by the regular teachers of the depart- 
ment. This necessitated a division of energy and of time, for in 
every case the teacher was called from her regular class duty when 
obliged to be in attendance at some meeting — oftentimes in a far 
distant part of the state. Much was accomplished, however, and 
the extension workers of today are privileged to garner the harvest 
whose seed was planted by some faithful worker of those earlier days. 
No story of the extension work of Home Economics in Kansas would 
be complete without references to what Mrs. Kedzie, Mrs. Calvin 
and others did in laying the foundations. 

Recognizing the fact that organization is the basis of success, what- 
ever be the undertaking, the Kansas College has developed a well 
organized system of extension work, which is in every detail the out- 
growth of a careful study of all factors concerned. The home exten- 
sion work is but a single sub-division of the larger scheme which 
has for its aim the reaching of the masses of the people and the devel- 
opment of all their interests. The legislature of 191 1 made a liberal 
appropriation for the extension of industrial education in Kansas, 
At this time a young woman was selected and to her was given the 
responsibility for the extension work in Home Economics throughout 
the entire state. From time to time the Home Economics staff has 
been increased, until at present there are four women giving their 
full time to thii work. It is still necessary at times for the teachers 
of the college Home Economics department to respond to a call to 
help carry on some phase of the extension work, but in so far as is 
possible the work is done by the regularly appointed instructors. 
It is carried on in the following definite ways and is supported by the 
fund that is appropriated by the legislature for college extension work. 

Women's Auxiliary to Farmers^ Institutes. — These organizations 
were the outgrowth of the frequently expressed wish of the women 
and girls in attendance at the regular farmers' institute gatherings 
for help in meeting their specific problems. The membership of 
the organization is made up for the most part of the farmers' wives 
and daughters, although any interested woman may become a member. 
The plan of organization is simple, and the meetings are held regularly 
once a month throughout the year. At these meetings the subjects 
of interest pertaining to home life are studied, with the help of sug- 



1912] Extension Work in Kansas 157 

gested programs with a carefully prepared list of references, and 
such material as may be available in bulletin form as sent from the 
college office. A report of each meeting is requested and inquiries 
regarding puzzling problems are encouraged. The Auxiliary holds 
its sectional meeting in connection with the annual farmers' institute 
meeting at which time a speaker is always present from the college 
department to give help and inspiration. The number of auxiliaries 
at the present time is 22, with a total membership of 585. 

The GirW Home Economics Club. — These clubs, now such an impor- 
tant phase of the extension work, were the outgrowth of contests in 
cooking and sewing. These contests were made possible through 
the cooperation of the county superintendents of schools who enlisted 
the girls' interest and supervised their work. The contests are gov- 
erned by regulations formulated by the college department, the results 
are exhibited at the farmers' institute meetings, and the judges are 
usually college extension workers. This field of work proved to 
be of value, but very soon came the request for more assistance than 
the contests provided for. The Girls' Home Economics Clubs were 
formed to meet this demand. These clubs are designed to be substi- 
tutes for a Home Economics course in the public schools, especially 
in the rural districts until such work may become a part of the regular 
school work. The membership includes two groups of girls — the 
regular club being formed of girls from fifteen to twenty years 
of age, and the junior club of girls from ten to fourteen years. Any 
group of girls within the ages named, who will meet the requirements, 
are supplied with printed leaflet lessons by the college department. 
The conditions are that the organization must have a regular time 
and place of meeting; the club must be in charge of some responsible 
person; and the club must send to the college department a weekly 
report of all work done. The plan of work is substantially as follows: 
As soon as organization is complete, the names enrolled are sent to the 
college office, and printed leaflets are sent to each leader for the use 
of members. The lessons are worked out in some improvised lab- 
oratory, in the leader's kitchen, or in the homes of the individual 
members. At the weekly meeting of the club, a record of the results 
is made, showing for each member the number of trials, successes, 
and failures, together with any remarks or questions. These records 
are forwarded to the college department where they are carefully read. 
Corrections are made and the papers returned with the leaflets for 
the next lesson. At the present time, there are 64 of these clubs 
with a membership of 948. 



158 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Movable Schools. — One of the most popular of the diiTerent lines 
of extension work is the movable Home Economics schools. Any 
community in the state that can secure a class of twenty-four young 
women who will agree to pay a fee of $1.00 each to be used in meeting 
the expense of hall, materials, a,nd equipment, may avail themselves 
of the opportunities of the school. The local communities must 
secure a suitable room in which the school may be held and must 
assume responsibility for its improvised equipment according to 
suggestions sent out by the college department. The college sends 
two instructors who for one week conduct daily lessons in both cook- 
ing and sewing. During the past year 31 of these schools have been 
held in the various small towns of Kansas. 

Correspondence Courses. — Last year two correspondence courses 
in Home Economics were inaugurated, one in cooking and one in 
sewing. The texts for such work are supplied by the Home Economics 
department in the form of specially prepared bulletins. These are sent 
to the students together with a set of test questions. The answered 
questions are returned to the college for correction. At the present 
time there are 56 young women enrolled in these courses. 

Slate Farmers^ Institute. — In addition to these definite lines of 
work, the college extension department is endeavoring to be helpful 
in other ways. During the past year, two of the leading railroads 
of the state furnished a special train which carried agricultural experts 
into the territory traversed by these railroads. Members of the 
home extension force accompanied the party and were given an oppor- 
tunity to speak to the women and girls at each stopping place of 
the train. It is estimated that 3,000 women of the most sparsely 
settled districts of the state were reached in this way and given the 
inspiration and hope that comes from the realization that their prob- 
lems are the subject of special consideration by trained people. Dur- 
ing the season of county fairs, the college department responds to 
frequent calls for exhibits of an educational character and for judges 
of award or for teachers to give demonstration lectures. 

That the extension work has been worth w^hile in the develop- 
ment of the Home Economics movement in Kansas is evidenced 
by the fact that today there are 439 rural schools and 124 high schools 
in the state teaching some phase of this work. May we not expect 
as the result a general uplift in the home life of the states and a realiza- 
tion of a more helpful and efficient civilization? 



EXTENSION WORK IN MINNESOTA.^ 

Mary L. Bull. 
University of Minnesota. 

Extension work has been in progress in Minnesota continuously, 
in some form, for several years. Before the organization of the present 
extension division, each division of the school and college did as 
much as possible of this outside work. At first the several instructors 
were called upon from time to time, each to give something in his 
or her particular line at farmers' and women's club meetings, in 
village high schools, etc. Later, outlined courses of four or five lec- 
tures and demonstrations, covering as many weeks, were carried on 
in connection with schools or clubs in different places. 

Finally, two years ago, an extension division was established, 
with workers whose entire time was devoted to extension work. 

The boys' and girls' industrial contest work, which has been carried 
on throughout the state since 1904, has created a great interest in 
subjects pertaining to farm life; and we believe it has been of value 
to the older members of the farm families, as well as to the boys and 
girls of the state. Such work is in most cases carried on imder the 
direct super\'ision of the county superintendent of schools; he, in 
turn, working in general along lines outlined by the state for the boys' 
and girls' industrial contest work. Since igo6 a state contest has 
been held in the Twin Cities each fall after the county fairs are over, 
usually at the time of the meeting of the Minnesota Educational 
Association. The local or county contests are often held in connec- 
tion with the county fairs. 

At present many counties have a building which is devoted entirely 
to this industrial contest work Some of these buildings are erected 
by the fair management, and others by individual subscription, or 
with money furnished by rural and village schools which they have 
in some way (as by school entertainments, socials, etc.) provided 
for that purpose In some cases the buildings are very substantial, 
attractive structures, and in others they are less expensive, but in 
any case such a building gives the young people a feeling of owner- 
ship and added interest in their work. 

Any boy or girl in the state is eligible to enter the contest, either 

^ An abstract of a paper presented at the Washington Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association, December, 191 1. 

159 



i6o The Journal of Home Economics [April 

in agriculture, manual training, domestic science, or domestic art. 
The work in Home Economics is divided into three classes, A, B, 
and C. Class A includes children under thirteen years of age who 
are not in a graded or high school; class B all from thirteen to 
eighteen years of age who are not in a graded or high school; and 
class C any boy or girl not over eighteen who is in a graded or high 
school. 

The winners of the first six prizes in each class in each county are 
allowed to compete in the state contest, where the winners of county 
prizes often make necessary careful scrutiny on the part of the judges. 
The fair associations, commercial clubs, local merchants, and other 
business men have been very liberal in their contributions for pre- 
miums, thus lending their aid in arousing interest and furthering the 
work. This year the state legislature appropriated $2,000 per year 
for two years to be used as premium money in the state contest. 

During 1910 and 191 1 the extension workers have aided the agri- 
cultural high schools in conducting their short courses for young 
men and women. The demand is so great that the college and station 
people are sometimes urged by the school superintendents to help 
where there is an excess of places to be filled at one time. The work 
in domestic science deals with a study of foods, their use in the body, 
food and money value, etc., sanitation in the home, home economy, 
home hygiene, care of the sick in the home, home decoration, etc., 
with practical illustrations and demonstrations. 

Special schools, such as corn schools, cooking schools, poultry 
schools, etc., are conducted in different sections of the state, provided 
certain requirements are fulfilled. These schools may be held under 
the auspices of any local organization or by an unorganized body 
provided some known reliable person guarantees a fulfillment of 
requirements as to number of students, place of meetings, and mate- 
rials. 

Demonstration or educational exhibit tents are sent to as many 
county fairs as is possible during the autumn. Three workers — 
two men and a woman — usually go with these exhibits and both 
explain the exhibits and give short talks on subjects pertaining to 
different phases of the work. They also judge all articles entered 
in the industrial contests. 

And, last but by no means least, is the work done in the rural 
schools. A county superintendent may call upon the extension 
workers to visit his rural schools with him and give talks and demon- 



19 1 2] Extension Work in Minnesota i6i 

strations in the schoolhouses during school hours, at some time pre- 
viously arranged with the extension superintendent; in many instances 
these are both parents' and students' meetings. The domestic science 
worker takes up home subjects; different food materials, and the 
proper use of such materials; methods of preparation, combination, 
etc., illustrated by the Langworthy food charts and other convenient 
and useful helps. Where possible, some simple demonstration is 
given, showing why certain combinations of food are desirable. If 
one may judge by the attention given, such lessons are interesting 
even to the smaller children. 

Simple talks on personal hygiene and its relation to health of body 
sanitation at home and at school, its relation to clean air, pure water, 
pure food and wholesome lives, are given. These are also subjects 
which appeal to both parents and students. 

The warm lunch in rural schools — how it may be prepared and 
served, and its effect upon the comfort and well-being of the child 
— has been discussed, and seems in most cases to receive the approval 
of the parents. A number of teachers are trying out the plan as 
suggested in the bulletin issued by the extension division last fall, 
and with encouraging success in most cases. So simple a thing as corn 
meal gruel may not only serve as part of a noonday school lunch 
but also suggest a lesson in domestic science in schools and be dis- 
cussed and used to good purpose at home. Any one wishing this 
bulletin (Extension Bulletin 19), which contains other suggestions 
on this line, may receive it by addressing the Extension Division, 
University Farm, St. Paul, Minn. 

It is our hope and belief that some such work, carried on in the 
one-room rural school, may lead to a still greater interest in and study 
of all these most important subjects, subjects which have so close a 
relation to the healthy, physical, mental, and moral development of 
the race, and which, if thoroughly understood, would aid in placing 
home making on a level with other professions. The rural schools 
of Minnesota, though in many places small and poorly housed, have 
a large and important part in our plan for extension work. 



THE DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT AS A SOCIAL 
CENTER OF THE SCHOOL.^ 

Bertha M. Miller and Viola M. Bell. 
James Millikin University, Decatur, Illinois. 

Both in aim and method, the present tendency in education may be 
said to be predominantly social. Contemporary educators, by con- 
tinued emphasis on the socializing purposes, are bringing this fact 
clearly to the foreground. With the growth of this tendency there 
has developed an appreciation of the school as a social unit in the com- 
munity. As a still further development there is now felt a distinct 
need of a social center within the school itself. The scope of this paper 
will be Hmited to a few suggestions upon this specific problem. 

The school is a community within itself. It may be described as a 
social unit — a place where the mingling of the students with each other 
can be made of great value. The Importance of this phase of school 
life is stressed by practically all writers on education today. To quote 
from several typical articles: 

The primary aim of the public school is not to promote academic training, but to 
enable the pupil by means of a free, fair, and general social intercourse, under the 
leadership of friendly and large spirited men and women, to obtain practice in real 
life, to become socially and serviceably eflQcient. — A . D. Call. 

Children from all classes and elements in life meet together on a common basis. 
. . . . In reality they will get more than anything else, the results of the play 
of life upon life, as they mingle with teachers and schoolmates in the varying activ- 
ities of the school. — E. A . Hollister. 

The school is another form of social life .... It is emphatically a social 
institution .... The object is to socialize the youth and to fit him to take his 
place in society and to render the best service of which he is capable. S. T. Dutton. 

This "social intercourse" may be gained not only through the sub- 
jects already included in the curriculum but also through the introduc- 
tion of subjects of distinct social value. The former, however, are 
too vague to have any direct bearing upon social development and the 
latter are limited in their influence to the members of the classes. If 
this training is so essential, let the social life of the school be consciously 
developed and definitely organized; or as H. VVoolston expresses it: 
"Under the control of the school there ought to be provided ample 
opportunity for purely social recreation. I would advocate, to be 

' Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December, igii. 

162 



1912] The Domestic Science De par intent a Social Center 163 

explicit, the introduction into the program of the school of regular 
social occasions at stated and reasonably frequent intervals." 

The association of an individual with the members of his own school 
group gives a certain degree of confidence which may be lost when he 
comes in contact with another group. His social horizon therefore 
should be widened by bringing together as many groups as possible 
upon these social occasions. R. P. Halleck in discussing the social side 
of high school life says: "Varied ways of developing social activities 
must be devised." One of the easiest and most natural outlets for 
this life is through the domestic science department, as both subject 
matter and equipment are social factors. The use of the rooms and 
equipment by different groups of pupils has already been tried by 
several schools with successful results. The arrangement of the fur- 
nishings of the room itself and the association with the subject matter, 
so predominantly social, aid by supplying the right atmosphere for 
all kinds of functions. 

Not only from the purely social but also from the economic point of 
view should this department be used by all members of the school 
community. The installation of the equipment requires the invest- 
ment of a large sum of money. Society demands that every invest- 
ment should yield as large returns as possible. As H. Woolston says; 

We must turn to the school in order to find an agency that can consistently and 
comprehensively instruct our coming citizens as to the privileges and responsibilities 
of social life. From the standpoint of economy it has seemed wasteful to erect at 
great cost a building that can be used for only five hours a day during five days in 
the week for nine to ten months in the year. As fitting monuments for civic enter- 
prise they should yield a larger utility in proportion to the funds invested. 

By centering the social life around the domestic science department 
and by using the equipment for these important social activities much 
larger returns will be received for the sum expended than from that 
which is given by the regular class work in the department. 

Both the methods by which the social life of the school may be 
developed through this department and the efficiency of the methods 
will depend upon the good management of the domestic science teacher 
and the cooperation given her by those supervising the social acti\nties. 

In brief, realization of the social value of education has brought to 
Ught the fact that the pupils must receive training in social life during 
the school hours. The school as a social unit should afford some defi- 
nite medium for the expression of such life. As the domestic science 
department is social in subject matter and can furnish the means for 
carrying out these activities, it should be the logical social center. 



PRACTICAL METHODS FOR TEACHING THE 
NUTRITIVE VALUE AND COST OF FOOD. 

Helen Marion Day. 
Bradley Polytechnic Institute. 

One of the chief diiEculties in making the subject of nutritive 
value and cost of food of real practical value to a student is the general 
lack of facilities and opportunity for continuous work in the giving 
of meals. The preparation and serving of an occasional isolated 
meal is valuable chiefly as practice in cooking various foods whose 
relation to each other must be considered in several aspects, and in 
appropriate methods of table setting and service. Even when the 
dietary value and the cost of such meals are carefully worked out the 
results are far from practical or convincing, for the very obvious 
reason that conditions are artificial. I do not wish to undervalue 
such work when conditions are such that nothing more can be done, 
yet a year's experience with a practical house where the actual condi- 
tions of family life are met by the students has made me very enthusi- 
astic in advocating such a method as extremely practical and valuable. 

For such practice we have a house near the Institute, the four 
first-floor rooms being fitted up as living room, bed room, dining 
room, and kitchen, with a laundry in the basement. Here all meals 
and housework lessons are given for the high school as well as for 
the college students Owing to limited time we have not yet been 
able to have the high school girls do any more in giving of meals than 
they did under the old conditions of the cooking laboratory and 
practice dining room, but the conditions being more like those of 
the home, the work seems to be more practical even for them. 

The college students have the dietary work in the winter term 
of the second year. They have had chemistry, bacteriology, one 
year of cooking, a term of food study immediately preceding the 
work in dietaries, and are taking at the same time a course in physio- 
logical chemistry. 

For the practical course in meals the class is so divided that groups 
of three are formed, and each group serves three meals per day for 
three days, alternating the duties of hostess, cook, and waitress. 
Owing to the necessity of keeping up the regular school work at the 

' Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 191 1. 

164 



1912] Methods for Teaching Food 165 

same time, a group can not work three consecutive days, but one 
day a week or in two weeks according to the number of groups in 
the class. The meals, however, are given consecutively by the various 
groups, five days per week. The family served consists of members 
of the faculty who are glad to pay for the meals thus furnished at 
the rate charged at boarding houses in the vicinity. We try to have 
a "constant" family so that the food requirements may be unafifected 
by differences in conditions. 

The money paid in constitutes the fund used by the students in 
making their purchases, all the marketing being done by the persons 
acting as hostesses for the week. In planning the menu for the week 
the various groups consult in order to have the best arrangement 
of food values and also for economy in marketing and using left overs. 
Each group begins serving at the noon meal so that the breakfast 
may be planned for and even started the night before. 

The working out of the dietary for the three meals is done by the 
hostess for the day, this work being facilitated as much as possible 
by having standard recipes worked out in advance. The hostess 
is also responsible for all reports for the day and expenditures of 
money. The cook does the main part of the cooking for the three 
meals, but is assisted in the preparation of salads, desserts, etc. We 
try to have certain duties devolve definitely upon certain students 
and at the same time encourage the "good team work" so important 
for the success of such a plan. 

Each day the value of the food eaten is compared with the standard 
selected and at the end of the week the average is again compared 
with the standard, discrepancies discussed, and suggestions made 
for adjustment. 

The cost of food for the first set of meals is not limited, ordinary 
economy in choice of food being exercised. With the food value 
and cost of the first set of meals as a basis, the remaining meals are 
arranged to meet the standard as nearly as possible with as much 
variation in cost in a descending scale as may be inflicted without pro- 
test upon the family. 

This practice in serving meals was followed by some five o'clock 
teas by the students in groups of four to invited guests chosen from 
the junior class and women members of the faculty. Here the dietary 
value was worked out, but more elaborate dishes being constructed 
and more expensive material used, the cost of food and value of labor 
in its preparation was emphasized This practice in another form 
of serving and in dispensing hospitality was also valuable to the girls. 



i66 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

One other experiment that we tried last year was in connection 
with a course in large quantity cooking in the spring term of the 
second year. When the class was small all such practice could be 
given in our lunch room kitchen, but last year it was necessary to 
provide extra work. We let it be known among the housekeepers 
in the neighborhood that we woidd do cooking to order on certain 
days in the week. The orders came in abundantly and the results 
were most satisfactory. The girls took great interest and pride in 
the work, and not only gained greatly in proficiency in handling 
food material in larger quantities than in the ordinary cooking class, 
but also learned a great deal about what constitutes a saleable article. 
The cost of the food material, fuel, and time was calculated and the 
total compared with the price of similar foods for sale in good baker- 
ies and the Woman's Exchange, thus setting the girls thinking about 
the trade element of our work. This is a valuable basis for good 
judgment in buying and awakens an interest in the work of the world. 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR TEACHERS AND 
SPECIALISTS IN LAUNDRY WORK.^ 

L. Ray Balderston. 
Teachers College, New York City. 

The training of women as specialists in any field is followed by 
its growth eventually in all lines that represent economy of time, 
labor, material, or money. Our domestic science schools are training 
women as specialists in various household lines, but very few are today 
providing specialists for the laundry, although this is one of the 
largest problems of the household and one of the important social, 
economic, and sanitar}' questions of the day. Science verifies the 
claim made from the standpoint of cleanliness; popular verdict says 
that trained people are necessary for the best results. There is a 
demand today for trained teachers to carry on educational work in 
the laundry field, and persons who are looking for possible fields 
of service will do well to consider this one. 

We have been considering the laundry course as a branch of domes- 
tic science, 3'et here is really a field of instruction and a profession 
which is competent to stand by itself. The time has come when 

1 Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 191 1. 



19 1 2] Novel Courses at Mechanics Institute 167 

trade schools need teachers of laundering; when classes of working 
women and girls need instruction in methods of household laundering; 
when hospitals, schools and colleges need superintendents for their 
laundries; when commercial laundries need efficient heads. 

This suggestion is offered by one who is teaching classes in home 
and institutional methods of laundering, the students of which are 
training for home duties, for teaching, and for institutional super- 
vision. Domestic science teachers are already legion; trained super- 
intendents more numerous than formerly; but we cannot begin to 
supply the demand for efficient teachers and supervisors in this field 
of laundering. The demand comes from all parts of the United 
States and for various kinds of positions. The following examples 
have recently come to my attention: A superintendent for a laundry 
in a hospital is wanted; a laundry instructor in a trade school for 
girls; a superintendent of a commercial laundry; a manager in a co- 
operative effort; an instructor and manager in an Alaskan school. 
In all these cases ability in both domestic work and machine work 
is needed. We have no one to send, because in all cases the training 
in laundry work thus far has been as a branch of other departments 
and not with the idea of specialization. 

Besides courses in domestic and institutional laundering, there 
is offered in Teachers College a certificate laundry course. This is 
a one-year course, admission to which requires high school graduation 
only. It is planned to give training not only in hand and machine 
work, but also to include allied courses in bacteriology, chemistry, 
textiles, etc., which will make for a broader, fuller equipment. 

NOVEL COURSES AT MECHANICS INSTITUTE.^ 

Helen Hollister. 

Course in Lunch Room Management. — Repeated demands for 
women capable of managing lunch rooms or cafeterias led Mechanics 
Institute in 1907 to offer a practical one-year course of instruction 
along these lines, with its own students' lunch room as the basis of 
operations. 

The minimum age limit for applicants was fixed at twenty-five 
years, and although at first occasional exceptions were made to this 

' Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 191 1. 



1 68 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

rule, it is now rigidly regarded, a certain amount of general experience 
and a mature judgment being deemed essential preparation. 

The first class had four members. The present class has the maxi- 
mum number, sixteen, while in the 4 years forty have completed the 
course. 

The practical part of the instruction is given by Miss Anna M. 
Stubbs, a graduate of the normal course in domestic science. Under 
her direction the members of the class plan suitable and economical 
menus, working out the cost, and preparing, cooking, and serving 
luncheon to 200 students five days in the week. Each one in the 
class in turn takes entire charge, including the ordering of supplies 
and directing the work of others. 

Additional experience is gained in the institute restaurant where 
500 people are served daily. Here practice is had in the making of 
bread and pastry and the cooking of meats and vegetables for three 
meals each day. Other practice work is gained through the planning 
and preparing of teachers' luncheons at some of the city schools and 
of suppers for church societies, while through the cooperation of 
various local lunch rooms fine opportunity is offered for observation 
work. 

The weekly schedule also includes lectures on food values, on hy- 
giene, on house construction and sanitation, and on emergency nursing; 
lessons in business methods and book keeping, in laundry work, in 
marketing, in general care of the house, in fancy cooking, and in textiles 
and sewing as applied to the selection and care of household supplies. 

A fine, intelligent class of women has taken up the work — trained 
nurses, housekeepers of experience, business women, and teachers. 
One young man entered the class last year, and proved himself so 
capable that he was retained by the institute as assistant manager 
of the lunch room and restaurant. 

Others who have received certificates of graduation are scattered 
far and wide, acting as housekeepers, or managers of lunch or tea 
rooms in Christian Associations, high schools, department stores, and 
factories in a number of cities representing almost as many states. 

The course has more than proved its importance and is regarded 
by the directors of Mechanics Institute as one of the most practical 
and useful established during its twenty-six years of existence. 

Course in Infant Nursing. — In January, 191 1, representatives from 
the Infants' Summer Hospital of Rochester, N. Y., and from the 
domestic science department of Mechanics Institute met to plan a 



1912] Novel Courses at Mechanics Institute 169 

course of instruction in the care of children — the institute to give the 
theory, the hospital the practice. The product of such a course was 
expected to be a superior grade of nurse, capable of caring for children 
in an intelligent, scientific way — an important factor in the work of 
reducing the rate of infant mortality. 

The course materialized in March, the institute offering it in the 
spring term. The three months of study were then followed by two 
months of hospital experience. 

Candidates were required to be sixteen years of age or over with a 
love for and a knowledge of children and at least a grammar school 
education. Of the seven women who formed the class the youngest 
was twenty-one and four were high school graduates — most satis- 
factory material. 

By lectures, discussions, and laboratory work the class was taught 
the importance of cleanliness, fresh air and proper diet. Lessons in 
food values were closely correlated with laboratory work, ranging 
from the care and preparation of milk to the cooking of a simple meal 
for a child of five. 

Instruction in sewing included the making of a complete layette as 
well as the mending and care of children's garments. 

Each week a talk was given by some prominent physican on such 
subjects as the care of the eyes, of the nose and throat, and of the skin ; 
the diseases of childhood, etc. 

Field work included visits to the city kindergartens for observation 
in the amusing of children and to the orphan asylum for experience 
in bathing infants. 

The three months of study ended in June, and during July and 
August the members of the class put their instruction to practical 
test at the Infants' Summer Hospital on the lake shore, a few miles 
from Rochester, with great benefit both to themselves and to the 
hospital. 

Although it is too soon to testify as to the independent worth of 
these young women, the course was considered thoroughly successful 
and the course is being repeated this year. An effort will be made to 
arouse a more general interest and to induce young mothers to attend 
at least a part of the lectures. 



THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS. 

Under the Auspices of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

Fourth Biennial Session, Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, 
Mich., July 1-26, IQ12. 

The fourth biennial session of the Graduate School of Home Eco- 
nomics is to be held at East Lansing, Mich., during the four weeks of 
July 1-26, in connection with the Graduate School of Agriculture. 
The extension of the time from the two weeks of former sessions to 
four weeks has made it possible to arrange for laboratory courses in 
addition to the lectures and conferences. 

Two laboratory courses are offered, each extending through the four 
weeks and occupying two hours a day. Food microbiology given by 
Professor Otto Rahn of Michigan Agricultural College, will be limited 
to a class of twelve, and demands a prerequisite of general bacteriology. 
Professor Kedzie of Michigan offers a course in chemistry in which 
special problems will be studied. Students registering for this course 
must offer general chemistry as a prerequisite. 

The first week of the school will include lectures on nutrition by 
Prof. H. C. Sherman of Columbia; on the principles of jellymaking 
by Prof. N. E. Goldthwaite of the University of Illinois, and lectures 
and laboratory demonstrations on the chemistry of textiles, by Dr. 
J. Merritt Matthews of New York City. 

During the second week. Dr. L. B. Mendel of Yale University will 
lecture and conduct a conference on nutrition, and Dr. Sophonisba 
Breckinridge of the University of Chicago will lecture on social eco- 
nomics. 

The third week includes lectures on the physiology of the cell by 
Dr. C. E. Marshall of Michigan Agricultural College,; lectures on cos- 
tume design by Professor Carr of the Univeristy of Missouri; and two 
lectures by Prof. Amy Daniels of the University of Missouri. A series 
of laboratory lessons in food will be taught and discussed by Prof. 
Agnes Hunt of Michigan Agricultural College. 

During the fourth week Miss Grace Smith of the Technical High 
School of Springfield, Mass., will lecture on industrial history in rela- 
tion to the teaching of textiles. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Professor Hunt, 
and President Isabel Bevier, will also lecture during this week. 

Several conferences will be arranged during the session. 

170 



1912] Graduate School of Home Economics 171 

Requirements for Admission. — In conformity with the Graduate 
School of Agriculture a college degree, or recommendation from the 
school of graduation or the faculty with whom associated, will be re- 
quired of those registering as students. 

Expenses. — The matriculation fee isSio and this will admit a student 
to both the Graduate School of Home Economics and the graduate 
School of Agriculture. No laboratory fee will be charged. 

Board and room may be obtained in the vicinity of the college for 
from S5 to $7 a week. A list of suitable boarding places will be kept 
in the ofl&ce of the registrar for the convenience of students at the 
Graduate School. 

Correspofidence. — All correspondence relating to membership in this 
school should be addressed to Mr. A. M. Brown, Registrar, Michigan 
Agricultural College, East Lansing, Mich. 

Alice P. Norton, Chairman. 

Fifth Session of the Graduate School ox Agriculture. 

The fifth session of the Graduate School of Agriculture will be 
held at the Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, Mich., be- 
ginning July I, 191 2, and continuing four weeks. 

Only persons who have completed a college course and taken a 
bachelor's degree will be admitted to the privileges of the school, 
except that admission may be granted to non-graduates who are 
recommended by the faculties of the college with which they are associ- 
ated as persons properly qualified to profit by advanced intruction in 
agriculture. 

Instruction adapted to the needs of graduate students will be given 
under the general heads of soils and plant physiology, animal physi- 
ology, agronomy, horticulture, animal husbandry and poultry, r;iral 
engineering, rural economics, and farm management. 

A prospectus giving a complete schedule of courses and instructors 
and other information will be issued later. 

A. C. True, Dean. 



THE ALCOTT HOME AT CONCORD. 

To those who like to trace the development of the Home Economics 
movement in the United States and all that it implies, the practical 
experiments in communal living of the New England Transcenden- 
talists, with their desire to put material things into the background 
and practice" plain living and high thinking," constitute an interesting 
chapter. 

When these ideas were carried out at Brook Farm and at the Alcott 
Home in Concord, Mass., one recalls that Mrs. Alcott had many 
difficulties to overcome in carrying out her husband's theories of 
diet, and one hopes that the consolations of philosophy were an ade- 
quate recompense. 

The Alcott home calls to mind also one of the most interesting 
experiments in the education of young children. How much Bronson 
Alcott's ideas of teaching young children by conversation rather 
than through books has influenced views of later educators it would 
be hard to say. At any rate, in the Alcott home grew up a wonder- 
fully interesting family. 

For this and many other reasons interest attaches to the following 
quotation which recounts a worthy union of women's club work with 
the preservation of a literary shrine and the inauguration of a phi- 
lanthropic enterprise. 

A movement inaugurated by Mrs. Henry C. Rolfe, president of the Concord 
Woman's Club, enlisted a committee to solicit funds from Louisa M. Alcott's 
admirers all over the country, and the enterprise was taken up so enthusiastically 
that although small subscriptions were received, they were so numerous that more 
than $5000 was accumulated. The house has been acquired by the conamittee, 
and the repairs, apparently the first in about two hundred years, have already 
redeemed the place. The leaks have been stopped, and there is no longer any 
danger of the roof tumbling in. The four rooms especially associated with the 
writer and her sister, May, the artist, will be reserved for public inspection. Visitors 
will read over the mantel the inscription suggested to Mr. Alcott by Ellery Chan- 
ning: 

The hills are reared, the seas are scooped in vain 

If learning's altar vanish from the plain. 

172 



1912] The Alcott Home 173 

The decorative drawings with which May Alcott relieved the utter bareness of 
the ill-furnished home — the figures on the woodwork, the Greek gods on the win- 
dow casings, the painted nasturtium vine, and the little brown owl, memorial of the 
family of wisdom's birds which Louisa Alcott so loved, have been preserved. For- 
mer articles of furniture associated with the family have begun to find their way 
back to their old home — the piano and writing desk, a mirror which if it could repro- 
duce what it has seen would be an amazing moving picture show, and various manu- 
scripts. 

But the big old house is not to be devoted wholly to a shrine of pilgrimage; the 
other rooms will receive house delegations of working girls during their brief 
summer vacations. This seems to be a most admirable memorial to a family whose 
ideals were certainly altruistic. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE. 

Mary D. S. Rose. 

March i, 1912. 

I. Food. 

The Purin Content of Common Articles of Food. H. D. Arnold and R. C 
Larrabee. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., January 6, pp. 18-20. 

Knotberry Oil — Its Detection in Olive Oil. Siro Grimaldi. Staz. sper. agrar. 
ital., vol. 44, pp. 291-300; ab. in Chem. abs., January 20, p. 262. 

Studies on Chicken Fat. M. E. Pennington and J. S. Hepburn. Jour. Am. 
Chem. Soc, February, pp. 210-222. (In relation to the effects of cold storage.) 

Tentative Mince Meat Standards. National Food Magazine, January, pp. 82- 
84. Discussion of pure food laws. 

Varieties of Cheese: Description and Analyses. C. F. Doane and H. W. Lawson. 
U.S.Dept. of Agr., Bureau of Animal Industry, Bui. 146. 

Self-rising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread made with Yeast. H. A. 
Kohman. /. Ind. and Eng. Chem., January, 191 2, p. 20. 

Pure Food. Outlook, January 13, pp. 68-70. 

Concerning the Price of Beef. Victor Ayer. National Food Magazine, January, 
pp. 27-34. The story of a steer from its arrival at the stock yards till sold to the 
butcher. 

The Score Card System Applied to Food Purveyors. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 
December 2, pp. 1843-1844. 

Bag Cookery in the "Model Home." Gas Logic, November 191 1, p. 5. 

The Young Business Woman's Lunch. Bertha Stevenson. Good Housekeeping 
Magazine, November, 191 1, pp. 695-699. 

2. Nutrition. 

Studies in Nutrition. L. B. Mendel and M. S. Fine. Ill, The Utilization of 
the Proteins of Corn, Jour. Biol. Chem., December, 1911, pp. 345-352; IV, The 
Utilization of the Proteins of the Legumes, Jour. Biol. Chem., January, 191 2, pp. 

433-439- 

Cottonseed Feeding Experiments with Mules and Horses. R. S. Curtis. North 
Carolina Agric. Exper. Sta., Bui. 215, June, 191 1. 

Studies on Water Drinking, VIII, IX, and X. H. A. Mattill and P. B. Hawk. 
Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, December, 191 2, pp. 1978-2032. 

Fasting Studies: V. (Studies on Water Drinking; XI.) The influence of an Ex- 
cessive Water Ingestion on a Dog after a Prolonged Fast. Jour. Biol. Chem., 
January, 191 2, pp. 417-432. 

174 



19 1 2] Bibliography of Home Economics 175 

Studies in the Formation of GlycocoII in the Body. Albert A. Epstein and Sam'l 
Bookman. Jour. Biol. Chem., December, 191 1, pp. 353-371- 

The Catabolism of Histidine. H. D. Dakin and A. J. Wakeman. Joxir. Biol. 
Chem., January, 191 2, pp. 499-502. 

Comparative Proteolysis E.xperiments with Trypsin. G. F. White and Wm. 
Crozier. Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, December, 191 2, pp. 2042-2048. 

Creatine and Creatinine Metabolism. C. G. L. Wolf. Jour. Biol. Chan., 
January, 1912, pp. 473-478. 

Creatine and Creatinine Metabolism in Dogs during Feeding and Inanition with 
Especial Reference to the Function of the Liver. C. Towles and.C. Voegtlin. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., January, 191 2, pp. 479-497. 

The Receptive Relaxation of the Stomach. W. B. Cannon and C. W. Lieb. 
Am. Jour. Physiol., January, 1912, pp. 267-273. 

The Nature of Gastric Peristalsis. W. B. Cannon. Am. Jour. Physiol., January, 
1912, pp. 250-266. 

The Nature of the Repair Processes in Protein Metabolism. E. V. McCollum. 
Am. Jour. Physiol., December, 191 1, pp. 215-237. 

Recent E.xperiences in the Artificial I-'eeding of One Hundred Infants. F. C. 
Neff. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., December 23, pp. 2068-2071. 

Disorders of Purine Metabolism. A. C. Reed, and G. B. Wallace. Jour. Am. 
Med. Assn., January 6, pp. 20-25. 

The High Calorie Diet in Typhoid. W. Coleman. Am. Jour. Med. Science, 
January, 191 2, p. 77. 

Experiences with the Coleman Shaffer Diet in Typhoid Fever. B. B. Crohn. 
Jour. Am. Med. Assn., January 27, pp. 259-264. Practical suggestions as to diet. 

Physiological EfTect on Growth and Reproduction of Rations Balanced from 
Restricted Sources. Hart, McCollum, Steenbock, and Humphrey. Wisconsin 
Agr. Exp. Sta., Research Bulletin 77, June, 191 1. 

Is Vegetarianism Capable of World-Wide Application? A. E. Taylor. Pop. 
Science Mo., December, p. 587. 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation, 

Sanitation of Villages and Small Towns, with Special Reference to Efficiency and 
Cheapness. W. J. R. Simpson. British Med. Jour., November 11. 

Report of Committee on The Purification of Sewage. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 
December 9, pp. 1903-1907. 

Report of Committee on Model Health Ordinances for a City which is a Resort 
for Consumptives. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., December 9, pp. 1897-1900. 

Select List of References on the Public Drinking Cup Question. Library of 
Congress, in Special Libraries, vol. 2, no. 8, October, 1911. 

Municipal Ordinances, Rules and Regulations pertaining to Public Hygiene 
adopted since January i, 1910. U. S. Pub. Health and Marine Hosp. Service. 
Public Health Reports, vol. 26, 1911, no. 47, p. 1842. 

"Comforter" Caries. E. H. R. Harris. Lcwce^, November 11 . Effect of baby 
comforters on the teeth. 

Experiments in Book Disinfection. L. B. Nice. Jour. Am. Pub. Health Assn., 
November i, p. 771. 



176 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Hygiene of Swimming Tanks. W. J. Lyster. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., December 
16, pp. 1992-1Q93. 

On What do the Hygienic and Therapeutic Virtues of the Open Air Depend? 
Henry Sewall. Joitr. Am. Med. Assn., January 20, pp. 174-177. 

Water and Waste. Morris Knowles, C. E. Survey, January 6, pp. 1485-1500. 
The sanitary problems of a modern industrial district in Alabama. 

Sanitary Survey of Alabama Mining Camps. — Editorial. Survey, December 2, 
p. 1274. An account of an attempt to improv: conditions in the mining camps of 
Alabama. 

The Lodging House. W. P. England. Survey, Dectmhtr 2, i9ii,pp. 1313-1317. 
Conditions in lodging houses. 

Tuberculosis Prevention Costs in 191 1. Phillip P. Jacobs, Assistant Sec'y Na- 
tional Ass'n for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis. Survey, January 20, 
pp. 1612-1613. 

First Canadian Congress on Conservation of Health. Madge Macbeth. Sur- 
vey, January 20, pp. 1614-1616. 

Strikes for Good Health. Editorial. Survey, January 20, p. 1592. Strikes in 
factories because of bad sanitary conditions. 

How to Prevent T>phoid Fever. L. W. Page, J. R. ^Mohler, and E. F. Smith. 
U. S. Dept. of Agr., Farmer's Bui. 478. 

Infant Welfare: Methods of Organization and Administration in Italy. C. R. 
Henderson. Am. Jour, of Sociology, 17, pp. 289-302. 

Conference on Infant Mortality. J. W. Schereschewsky. Survey, December 16, 
pp. 1369-1373. A discussion of the conference held in Chicago, November 16-18, 
1911. 

The Spirit of Youth and — Kansas City. Editorial. Survey, December 2, pp. 
1272-1273. An account of the Child's Welfare Exhibit in Kansas City. 

Report of Committee on Houses for Working People. Jour. Am. Med. Assn. 
December 9, pp. 1895-1897. 

4. Education and Social Work. 

The New Era in Education. Lillian Haeryette Johnston. National Food Mag- 
azine, Februarj', 191 2, pp. 109-117. The influence of teaching domestic science 
in Chicago public schools upon the homes. 

Schools of Domestic Science. American Housekeeper, December, pp. 553-556; 
Januar\-, pp. 35-38. An alphabetical list of domestic science schools in the United 
States. 

Trend in Public School Education. L. R. Alderman. Oregon Teacher's Monthly, 
Januarj-, pp. 261-263. 

Sewing in the Elementary Schools. Anna G. Butler. McEvoy Magazine, Jan- 
uary, pp. 204-206. 

Teaching Household Science in the High Schools. Mildred Maddocks. Atlantic 
Educational Journal , January, pp. 13-14. 

Schools of Agriculture, Mechanic Arts, and Home Making. State of Nrw York, 
Education Dept., Bui. 4g4, May i, 1911. 

Course of Study and Sj^llabus for Guidance of Nurse Training Schools. State 
of Neiu York, Education Dept., Bui. 4g8, July i, 191 1. 



1912] Bibliography of Home Economics 177 

Tradition in Education: A Plea for a Modified Curriculum and for the General 
Recognition of Manual Instruction in the Schools. Science Progress in the Twen- 
tieth Cent., vol. 6, (191 1) no. 22, pp. 181-209. 

An Economic Study of 500 Consumptives Treated in the Boston Consumptives' 
Hospital. E. A. Locke and C. Floyd. Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., November 25, 
p. 781. Losses in wages with cost and care in public institutions. 

Women in Industry: The Chicago Stockyards. Abbott and Breckenridge. 
Jour, of Polit. Econ., October, 1911, p. 632-655. 

The Progress of Eugenics. James A. Field. Quart. Jour, of Econ., November, 

191 1, pp. 1-68. 

The Ancient and the Modern Lady. Anna Garlin Spencer. Forj<w,46, pp., 
662-678. 

This is the first in a series of articles of great interest and importance. They at- 
tempt to state the function of woman in the social and industrial life of today. 

Shrimps and Babies. Rene Bache. Technical World Magazine, January, 191 2, 
pp. 497-504. An attack upon child labor. 

Cost of Child Welfare E.xhibit. Editorial. Survey, Januarj' 20, pp. 1593-1594. 
Some facts as to costs and methods of the recent Kansas City Welfare Exhibit. 

The Child's Sense of Responsibility: How it is Bred into the German Girl. 
E. G. Cooley. Mother's Magazine, February, 191 2, p. 39. 

The Trend of Things. Editorial. 5Mn'ey, January 27, p. 1647. Reference to the 
first International Congress of Farm Women. 

The Power Behind Our Silk Mills. Scott Nearing. Independent, February i, 

1912, pp. 255-256. A short story dealing with the question of child labor. 

5. Textiles and Clothing. 

Tapestries of Today. R. V. Goodhue. House and Garden, February, 191 2, 
pp. 15-16. 

An Advance Lesson in Oriental Rugs. Major L. B. Lawton, U. S. A. The House 
Beautiful, January', 1912, pp. 45, 46 and 56. 

Persian Rug Weavers. The House Beautiful, November, 191 1, pp. 34-36. 

The January Linen Counter. Margaret Pendleton. The House Beautiful, 
January, 191 2, p. 41. In interesting study of the source and kinds of linen. 

Some Aspects of Ireland's Industries. Mrs. Harry Bottomley. Handicraft, 
January, 1912, p. 363. 

Profits in Flax. Charles Richards Dodge, Technical World Magazine, January, 
191 2, pp. 565-570. 

Select List of References on Wool, with Special Reference to the Tariff. Library 
of Congress, Catalogue number 11-25005. 

Carbonizing Woolen Cloth. R. Shaw Cross. Textile World Record, December, 
1911, pp. 108-110. 

Cotton-yielding Trees. Lock Haven. Textile World Record, December, 1911, 
pp. 88-90. 

Fireproofing of Woven Fabrics. Dr. Louis J. Matos. Textile World Record, 
December, 191 1, pp. 130-131. 

Formic Acid: Its Properties and Application in Dyeing and Finishing. T. 
Walther, Fdrb. Ztg., vol. 22, pp. 61-62, abs. in Chem. Abs., January 20, p. 296. 



178 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Malt Enzymes and their Employment in the Textile Industries. R. J. May. 
Journ. Soc. Dyers and Colorists, vol. 27, pp. 88-92; ab. in Chem. Abs., January 20, 
p. 299. 

Removing Spots and Stains from Textiles. Robert Dantzer. Textile World 
Record, November, 1911, pp. 94-95; December, 1911, pp. 90-92. 

How to Buy a Girl's Clothing. Florence Helen Batchelder. The Mother's 
Magazine, January, 191 2, p. 34. 

Beauty in Daily Life : Why has it Disappeared Throughout the Civilized World? 
Contemporary Review, November, 191 1, pp. 671-680. A plea for beauty in dress 

6. Miscellaneous. 

What is the Home for? Martha Bensley Bruere. Om//ooA, December 16, igii, 
pp. 910-914. 

Savings or Efficiency. Martha Bensley BruSre. Outlook, January 27, p. 192. 

Wife's Share : What Proportion of Her Husband's Income should she receive? 
Harper's Bazaar, January, 191 2, p. 32. 

The Ethics of Food: Bread. Science Progress in the Twentieth Century, vol. 6, 

1911, no. 22, pp. 279-297. 

The Cause of High Prices. T. E. Burton. Science, January 26, pp. 129-140. 
Cost of Living in American Towns. Robert Coit Chapin. Survey, January 6, 

191 2, pp. 1446-1448. Report of an inquiry by the Board of Trade of London into 
working-class rents, housing, and retail prices, together with rates of wages in cer- 
tain occupations in the principal industrial towns of the United States. 

The Cost of Producing Minnesota Dairy Products. T. P. Cooper. U. S. Dept. 
of Agr., Bureau of Statistics, Bui. 88. 

Efficiency in the Home. Janet M. Hill. Boston Cooking School Magazine, Jan- 
uary, 1912, pp. 291-293. 

The Conservation of Womanhood and Childhood. Theodore Roosevelt. Out- 
look, December 23, pp. 1013-1019. 

Review of Heating Literature. Centrifugal Fan Testing. German Ideas for 
Heating and Ventilation of School Buildings. Modern Design in Hospital Heating. 
Heating and Ventilating Mag., December, 191 1. 

Money for Home Economics. Editorial. Good Housekeeping, December, 191 1, 
pp. 85-88. A discussion of the Page bill. 



SOME RECENT BOOKS ON HOME ECONOMICS. 

What Dianthe Did. Charlotte Perkins Oilman. Charlton Company, New York 

City, igii. Price, $i.oo. 
The Standard of Living Among Industrial People of America. Frank H. 

Streightoff. Houghton Mifflin Company. 1910, pp. 196. 
The Lady. Emily J. Putnam. Sturgis and Walton, 1910, pp. 323. Price, $250 
Practical Motherhood. Helen T. Campbell. Longmans, Green and Company 

1910, pp. 535. Price, $2.00. 
Girls and Education. L.R.B.Briggs. HoughtonMiflBinCompany i9ii,pp. 162 

Price, $1.00. 
The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State. Frederick Engels 

Translated by Ernest Untermann. Chas H. Kerr and Company, Chicago 

pp. 217. Price, 50 cents. 
Home Life in Spain. S. L. Benswsen McMillan, 1910, pp.317. Price, $1.75 
Home Life in Holland. D. S. Meldrum. MacMillan, 1910, pp. 370. Price, $1.75 
Home Life in Germany. Mrs. Alfred Lidgwick. Methuen Company, London 

W. C, pp. 327. Price, $1.75. 
Home Life in America. Katherine A. Bushey. MacMillan, 1910, pp. 410. Price 

$i-75- 
Home Life in Italy. Line Gordon Duff. MacMillan, 1909, pp. 386. Price, $1.75 
Food Inspection. Hugh Macewen. Blackie and Company, London, E. C, 1909 

pp. 256. Price, $1.25. 
Checking the Waste : A Study in Conservation. Mary Huston Gregory. Bobbs- 

Merriil Company, pp. 318. Price, $1.50. 
The Mother's Year Book. Marion Foster Washburne. MacMillan, 1908, pp. 253. 

Price, $1.25. 
The Woman Movement in America. Bell Squire. McClurg and Company, 1911, 

pp.286. Price, 75 cents. 
How to Drain a House. George E. Waring, Jr. Van Nostrand Company, 1902. 
Thermatic Fireless Cooker. Diller Manufacturing Company, Bluffton Ohio, 

pp. 74. Price, 50 cents. 
Personal Hygiene and Physical Training for Women. Anna M. Galbraith, M.D. 

Saui d.rs Company, iqii, pp. 371. Price, $1.50. 
Easy Entertaining. Caroline French Benton. Dana Estes Company, pp. 251. 

Price, Si. 00. 
Practical Housing. J. S. Nettleford. Garden City Press, 1910, pp. 194. Price, 

50 cents. 
Handbook of Hospitality in Town and Country. Florence Howe Hall. Dana 

Estes Company, 1909. pp. 312. Price, $1.00. 
When Mother Lets us Help. Constance Johnson. Moffat Yard and Company, 

1909, pp. 82. Price, 75 cents. 



179 



ADDRESS OF WELCOME TO THE ASSOCIATION.^ 
P. P. Claxton, D. Litt. 

U. S. Commissioner of Edtuation. 

Madam President, Ladies, and Gentlemen: I regret that I have not 
had an opportunity to be present at the meetings in which you have 
been participating. It was with great pleasure that I accepted the 
invitation to welcome you to this city because I believe you are 
working at a vital problem of education. I have, however, no definite 
knowledge of your work, and can, therefore, say only a word about the 
place it should have in a general scheme of education. 

Education must come out of the life of the individual. It is not 
a thing to be brought down out of the heavens or imported from the 
ends of the earth. It is not something foreign to be rammed down 
throats of children nor with which they are to be clothed. It must 
come out of the life of the individual. It is only an upliftmg, an 
outsifting, a refining, an organizing, and an interpreting of the life 
of the individual. This applies to the education of a people, or a 
race as well. In a people's own life we must find the elements to be 
used in its education. Froebel was right when he brought into the 
kindergarten the things familiar to the children in the villages of the 
particular part of Germany in which he lived. A kindergartener 
in a school for Indian children which I once visited was wrong when 
she tried to use Froebel's German material and then complained 
because the little Indians were not interested. While she was com- 
plaining to me, these children were having a great time with their 
blow guns. I said to her, "Why not catch the spirit of Froebel and 
do as he did. Why not use the material about you, that appeals 
to the experiences, the life, and the interests of these children, lifting 
up these experiences into consciousness, and giving to each individual 
experience its universal consecration?" 

Stanley Hall has called our attention to the application of this 
same principle in dealing with primitive peoples and foreign civili- 

1 Delivered before the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December, 191 1. 

180 



1912] Address of Welcome 181 

zations. It is a principle the missionary must learn. Paul was right 
when he did not try to impose on the Gentile converts to Christianity 
the things of Judaism, however important these may have been to 
the Jewish converts. In the fullness of time, out of the life of a people, 
possibly under the impulse and inspiration of a sympathetic teacher, 
must the higher ideal and a new system of thought and action ripen. 
It must come as an uplifting, outsifting, refining, organizing, and 
interpreting of the best of their own lives. If our modem mission- 
aries could be as wise in this as some of the ancient missionaries 
were, we probably would make greater progress in the education and 
conversion of peoples with whom they are laboring so zealously. 

The principle is the same in regard to education of children in the 
coimtry and in the city. Hence the increasingly insistent demand 
for a differentiation in the work of the schools in the country and the 
city. It is not sufficient merely to establish a city school in the country. 
It does not fit. 

I think the principle also holds in the education of the sexes. The 
interests of men and women dififer broadly, as do their experiences. 
From the earliest times and among people of all grades of civilization, 
women have been interested in the things pertaining to the home and 
to life. According to Bernard Shaw men are interested in activity; 
women in being. Men are interested in producing the necessities 
of life; women in their proper use. Men are interested in the external 
circumstances of life; women in life itself. The interests of women 
center in the home and in the family, the fundamental social institution. 
She, therefore, has been and is the leader toward ever higher stages 
of civilization. She bears the torch of life. Das ewig-weibliche zieht 
uns hinan! 

Now if girls are interested chiefly in the things of the little world 
of the home and the right use of the products of the labor of their 
brothers; if these things enter most largely into their experiences 
while boys are interested in and have experiences with things and 
activities of the greater world of the outside, then there must be a 
differentiation in their education. This must be so for development 
and culture as well as for practical utility. Pestalozzi was accustomed 
to say that he would turn the car of education around; that he would 
make the people intelligent about the life they must live. For him 
education consisted largely in an interpretation of the daily activities 
and the every day interests of the people. He was right. Women are 
interested in the home and its furnishing, in food, clothing, and shelter, 



i82 The Jcurnal of Heme Economics [April 

They spend most of the money, four-fifths of it I have seen stated 
somewhere. Their life is in the home; their interests are there and 
their affections. Hence out of the home and its activities and interests 
must come the materials of their education, and it is chiefly about 
the life of the home that they must be made intelligent. 

I admit this does not apply with equal force to all women. Some 
there are whose interests are not centered so fully in the home and 
its economies. Doctor Chappell, a former principal of a school for 
women in Georgia, was right, however, in the main, when he divided 
all girls into two classes, Shakespeare girls and pie-crust girls. The 
division is certainly not bad. If both classes of girls were brought 
into the school, I think the pie-crust girls would seem much the larger 
class. The Shakespeare girl will profit most by the study of Shake- 
speare and what Shakespeare symbolizes. Something of the pie-crust 
studies will be helpful to her, no doubt, but she will profit most by 
a study of literature, history, mathematics, art, and music. In these 
she will find her chief joy; and most profit comes in education, I am 
sure, where most pleasure is taken. The growth of the spirit is always 
accompanied with joy. Where there is no joy, there is no growth. 
There is little of value for education in work done without interest 
and only because it is required. This applies in schools of all kinds, 
from kindergarten to college. 

The pie-crust girls will profit most by what my friend symbolized by 
pie crust. They are not interested in literature, music, mathematics 
and art. They are not capable of abstract thinking as the Shakes- 
peare girls are. The school should help them by making them intelli- 
gent about the things in which they can be interested. It should 
give them such instruction as will serve to intellectualize the work 
of their daily life in the home. We need a new definition of liberal 
education. We need to understand it as being that education which 
renders the worker free in his work, freeing him from the slavery 
which comes from ignorant and unintelligent imitation and enabling 
him to cooperate intelligently with the great laws of nature and make 
them his servants in carrying out his good will toward his fellow men. 
We also need a new definition of culture, that deepening, widening, 
refining, uplifting of the soul that comes only from living and laboring 
with strong purpose and good will for one's fellows. That education 
is most humanistic that appeals most directly and most intimately 
to the ordinary daily human interests. Rightly taught the science 
and the art of home making must rank very high in this regard. 



1912] Address of Welcome 183 

As a second principle, the work of the school, if it is to be of most 
value, must be closely related to the contemporary out-of-school 
life of the individual. Most children in school and in college live a 
double life, a kind of Doctor Jekyll and Mr. Hyde life. When the 
school door closes, the school interests are left there. School and 
home have each their own interests, with too little relation of the 
interests of one to those of the other. This condition can not produce 
the best results. The school life should parallel more closely the 
best of the out-of-school life and the interests of the home. When 
Luther made his plea for education of all the people, he said 
he did not expect that all the children could or would go to school 
all the time. He expected they would go to school two or three 
hours in the day, that they would work with their parents the remain- 
der of the time at useful occupations, and in helping to make their 
living. I think he fully realized not only the practical need of the 
work of the children, but its educational value as well. There is 
in this at least a suggestion for a wholesome reorganization of our 
school system. If children could attend school two or three hours 
a day three hundred days in the year and work at suitable occupations 
the rest of the day, it would easily be possible to prolong the years 
of their school life through the period of the high school and well 
on into the years of manhood and womanhood. The school would 
then offer an opportunity for a continuous interpretation of the ex- 
periences of daily life, and the daily life out of school would likewise 
furnish an opportunity for the application of the principles learned in 
school. There would then be a constantly increasing and developing 
interest in the work of the school and an ever-increasing zest in life. 

Our present practice of tr>'ing to carry the school life in advance 
of real life and of the natural development of the child is artificial 
and ineffective. Doctor Solamon of Naas, Sweden, one of the few 
philosophers that it has been my privilege to know, once said to me, 
"Did you ever think, Mr. Claxton, to what extent we put the cart 
before the horse in education? Children are active. Reflection 
comes only in later years. We seat children in the school room and 
require them to reflect on general principles. When they are just 
beginning to arrive at the years when reflection and understanding 
of principles are possible, we send them out to active life, where they 
do not have time to reflect." He thought the process should be 
reversed, to some degree at least. 

Experience must furnish the concrete raw material for the education 



184 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

of each individual, and not all this experience can be had in the 
first fourteen years of the child's life. In Goethe's Wilhelm Meister, 
you will remember, when Meister asked Arno, who was constantly 
twitting him with his lack of experience, "What experience is," Arno 
replied, "Experience is experiencing how other people experienced 
when they experienced their experiences." No one individual can 
experience for another, except in so far as he may be able to apper- 
ceive the experiences of the first through more or less similar experi- 
ences of his own of which he has become conscious through partial 
interpretation, at least. Therefore, the richer the experiences of the 
individual, the more the school will be able to do for him. The more 
the school life is prolonged and the more active and real the parallel life 
out of school, the better will be the results. The natural home life 
and the ordinary occupations of girls out of school should determine 
largely the character of their school work, and the school work should 
in so far as possible interpret for them their life experiences. 

Schools have always been vocational. Vocational education is 
no new fad. When only one boy out of ten and one girl out of a 
hundred went to school and these came from homes of culture and 
refinement, the work of the school was adapted to fit them for the 
occupations which it was supposed they would follow when they became 
men and women. Since it was quite certain that most of them would 
become ministers, lawyers, physicians, doctors, politicians, authors, 
or gentlemen and ladies of elegant leisure, the work of the schools was 
adapted to fit them for these occupations. Now, when all the children 
of all the people are crowding into the schools, we must vary the work 
to meet their various needs and the many occupations in which they 
will spend their lives. I hope the time may soon come when all will 
have some leisure, enough to enable them to reflect on the great verities 
of life and to acquire for themselves something of the sweetness and 
light which can come only with a reasonable amount of leisure. No 
country can afford to have a laboring class of people who labor all 
the time, nor a leisure class of people who are idle all the time, even 
to the extent of being relieved from all forms of productive labor. 
Athens tried it. She reached a glory of attainment which few nations 
have ever reached, but her beautiful civilization grew out of the 
dung heap of humanity rotting beneath. The result we all know. 

Into the education of every individual there must come some of the 
elements that appeal to the imagination and finer emotions, some of 
the things that touch the heart and refine the life. For all there 



19 1 2] Address of Welcome 185 

must be something of art and literature. All must have their minds 
more or less actively trained in the beginning at least of abstract 
thinking. The first occupation of all is manhood and womanhood, 
into which the elements of humanity must enter. The second is 
citizenship, and all must have the preparation which will enable 
them to perform the duties of citizenship and assume its higher 
responsibilities. In these respects and to this extent the education 
of all must be more or less alike. Beyond this the education of each 
individual must be determined largely by the vocation in which that 
individual is to make a living and serve his fellows. Whatever is 
needed to be done in the city, the state, and the nation for its welfare 
must be taught in the schools to those best fitted by nature to do 
this service, unless it can be taught more effectively and with less 
cost of money, time, and energy somewhere else. 

This principle applies, I think, in the education of girls, and since 
most of them are to be home makers and mothers of children, their 
education should fit them for these occupations. Had I the making 
of schools for girls, I would make domestic science and Home Eco- 
nomics the heart and center of the whole work. All other subjects I 
would bring into vital connection with these in such a way as to make 
them more intelligent and to lift them as far as possible into the 
sphere of the fine arts. 

I am in the fullest sympathy with your work. As Commissioner 
of Education, I am asking the present Congress for money enough to 
enable us to employ in the Bureau of Education a group of four or 
five women to help work out some of the great problems of education 
for home making, especially in the high schools and colleges of the 
country. If Congress responds to this demand, we shall be able 
to help you more at your next meeting, and we shall also be able to 
send, at your request, experienced women to assist in reorganizing 
the schools and establishing courses of study in home making in various 
parts of the country. 

Because you are working at this most vital point of all the education 
of the country, to make people a little more intelligent about the home, 
about the expenditure of money, and the preservation and ennobling 
of the life which centers about the home, I welcome you to the city 
of Washington, and bring to you the greetings of the nation and 
wish you the highest degree of success in your great work. 



EDITORIALS. 

The Graduate School of Home Economics is one of the most impor- 
tant undertakings which the Association has in hand, and one which 
, ought to have the support, not alone of the members 

„ , . , of the Association as individuals, but of the univer- 

„ sities, colleges, and other institutions which teach 

. Home Economics. Its purpose, in short, is the 

advancement of the grade of instruction offered in 
such institutions by bringing together, for special training under uni- 
versity teachers and investigators of national reputation, those who 
are now teaching. 

The Graduate School of Home Economics, like the Graduate School 
of Agriculture, has been devised as a special tool for a special purpose. 
Both sciences are new, and progress in each will be determined quite 
as much by the ability of those who are now teachers to keep in close 
touch with advance in their science, as it will by the training of new 
teachers. For a number of years now, at biennial periods, the workers 
in these two fields have come together and placed themselves under the 
instruction of those who are on the very frontiers of knowledge. The 
first graduate school of Home Economics was organized by Professor 
Atwater at Wesleyan University, and had the cooperation of Mrs. 
Richards. Successful schools have since met at the University of 
Illinois, Cornell University, and Iowa State College. The meeting 
this year at Lansing ought to bring together a large number of teachers 
of Home Economics, themselves to become, for the time being, indus- 
trious students. 

Six bills, some of them new forms of old ones, have been introduced 
into the present Congress, all proposing grants of money by the 

national government for education in Home Eco- 
Federal nomics. One bill proposes aid to a whole system of 

Legislation vocational education; two other bills favor extension 

education in agriculture and Home Economics; an- 
other bill would establish a bureau of domestic science in the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture at Washington; and another would make federal 
grants to the agricultural experiment stations for research in Home 
186 



19 1 2] Editorials 187 

Economics, including both domestic science and domestic art. It is 
certainly significant that so many measures are proposed, in one form 
or another, for giving federal grants to the extension of education for 
the home; and it is a proof of the widespread interest in this subject. 
There is little probability that any of these bills will be passed at 
the present session of Congress, and many who are most interested in 
the subject feel that this fact is not to be wholly deplored. Those 
who agree on the importance of this branch of instruction, but who 
look upon it from different view-points, may now have opportunity 
to get together and unite on a better plan than any yet proposed. 
The American Home Economics Association has appointed a com- 
mittee on legislation from whose action we may expect sound guidance 
in this matter. Meanwhile all members of the Association ought to 
secure copies of these bills (Houseof Representatives Nos. 1312, 15,256, 
and 11,542, Senate Nos. 3, 1369), study their provisions and write 
approval or criticism to their representatives in Congress. Our 
Committee on Legislation, of which Dr. B. R. Andrews, Teachers Col- 
lege, New York City, is chairman, will welcome suggestions. 

The annual conference of the Administration Section of the Amer- 
ican Home Economics Association will be held at the Lake Placid Club 

. , . . ^ during the last week of Tune, 191 2. Plans are already 

Administra- ,.,,,. i,- 1, -n • 1 ^ • 

^ c f bemg made for the program, which will include impor- 

__ . . tant papers on the organization of household labor, 
_ school lunch rooms, equipment and organization of 

kitchens, institutional laundries, score-cards for meas- 
uring the eflSciency of employees, reports on labor-saving methods 
and appliances, practice fields in training for household and institution 
management, and probably other topics. The full program will be 
sent to all members of the Association about June i. All interested 
are invited to attend. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The New England Home Economics Association has now, in its fourth year, about 

175 members. Its president is Mrs. Margaret J. Stannard, principal of the Gar- 

Ne E lad ^^"^ School of Home Making, Boston, and its secretary-treasurer 

_ -° is Miss Margaret E. Dodd. 

Home Eco- „. , ". , ,, , . . . ^ 

. i.ight meetmgs are planned for the present winter, six in Boston, 

, . , and two in other new England centers. 

elation. . , , . ^ , , , , , , , .. , , 

At the second meeting of the year, held at the lecture hall of the 

Boston Public Library, on November 25, Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel was the speaker, 

and gave an interesting and stimulating address on EflSciency in the Household. 

She described the modern scientific method of conducting a great industr>' today, 

and contrasted this with the unscientific method in which the average house is run. 

She admitted that it is much more difiicult to apply modern principles of efficiency 

to housework than to any other industry, but suggested as a remedy for many of 

the uneconomic conditions now prevalent the establishment of bureaus of Home 

Economics in every town and city, to serve as clearing houses for ideas on matters 

relating to right living. 

As a result, the New England Association is planning to make the beginning of 
such a bureau in Boston, and hopes before long to have definite results to describe. 

The association is committed to the effort of establishing a permanent home, 
which, whether a desk with a worker behind it or a whole building, shall come to be 
known as a center of Home Economics in Boston, where questions may be answered, 
or filed for study, if no answer is known; where books and leaflets may be gathered 
and plans be put into shape — in short, a place to receive and transmit the vibra- 
tions which shall traverse the entire New England States, with spare-waves for the 
world if they desire. 

Greater publicity is being cultivated through reports of the meetings in the daily 
papers and with the hope that in time there may be the publication in leaflet form 
of some of the helpful contributions from the meetings and the work of the confer- 
ences. 

This year's program contemplates the establishment of (i) a direct relation be- 
tween the association and the home, that parents and homemakers may contribute 
to and find help in the solution of their many problems; and (2) of an indirect rela- 
tion in the investigation into the needs of the community and the ways in which 
these needs may be met in the schools. 

A meeting of the executive board was held February 24, by invitation of the 

secretary-treasurer. Miss Lenna F. Cooper, at the Battle Creek Sanitarium. 

.,. . . The institution laboratories, kitchens, and treatment rooms were 

Michigan . . , '. , . ' , . , ^ 

TT p, open tor inspection, and especial interest was shown in the X-ray 

. • laboratory, where a demonstration was given by Dr. Reed. A 

. . . luncheon served in the roof dining room gave occasion for the dis- 

ciation. . , . . ,. ... 

cussion of interesting diet questions. At the executive session 

plans were made for the annual meeting of the association, to be held May 18, 



1912] News from the Field 189 

at the Women's Building of the Michigan Agricultural College. Miss Marion 
Talbot, dean of women and head of the household administration department in 
the University of Chicago, will deliver an address. There will also be reports from 
committees appointed in November, 191 1, on the constitution, membership, and 
standardization of high school and normal school courses. 

The first meeting of the year was held November 28, 191 1, at the New York 
Public Library. The subject of the address was the New York Public Library, and 
_ ^ How to Use It, by Dr. Williamson, who personally conducted the 

members through the library. The annual luncheon was held 
. January 20, and was a memorial meeting to Mrs. Richards. The 

_ February meeting was devoted to a discussion of art in the home. 

fj -^ ^. On ^larch 19 a meeting was held in the Manhattan Trade School, 
and Mr. .Arthur D. Dean, chief of the division of vocational schools. 
New York State Education Department, spoke on Vocational Education, and Miss 
Florence Marshall of the Manhattan Trade School on the work of the school. The 
May meeting will be held at Pratt Institute, the subject for discussion being Domes- 
tic Service. 

This association met at Salt Lake City, November 28-29, 191 1. A report of the 
committee on a course of study for the seventh and eighth grades was submitted 

by Miss Lizzie O. McKay, chairman, and one from the committee 
Utah Home on school lunches by Mrs. Hazel Love Dunford, chairman. Mrs. 
Economics Leah D. Widtsoe discussed the Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund, 
Association, and correlation of art and Home Economics work was treated 

by Mrs. Virginia S. Stephens. 

An organization of the Home Economics teachers of Scranton, Pa., was efiFected 

„ _, November 19, 191 1. Miss Gwendolyn Stewart was chosen president 

. .' '' and Mr. Charles Welsh, secretary-treasurer. Bi-monthly meetings 
Association. . , . 

are contemplated. 

An initial course in domestic science was offered to the women of Maryland, 
March 18-23. Among the lecturers were Dr. C. O. Appleman of the college on 

general bacteriology, cleaning, care of milk, and prevention of 
Maryland disease; Miss Frances Stern of Boston on water supply, household 
Agricultural chemistry, and the chemistry of the laundrj'; Mrs. C. W. Foulk of 
College. Ohio State University on various household topics; Dr. W. L. 

Taliaferro of the college on drainage and disposal of waste, and 
Dr. M. M. Lyon on first aid to the injured. A meeting for teachers was held on 
the closing afternoon, addressed by Miss Emma S. Jacobs of the Washington, D. C, 
pubUc schools and Mrs. H. J. Patterson. 



190 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

The annual Michigan farmers' institute round-up was held at the agricultural 
college the last week of February. During two days the Women's Congress held 
sessions for the discussion of important questions on education, 
Michigan health, and the household. Mrs. C. W. Foulk, extension lecturer 

State Agri- of the Ohio State University, spoke at four different sessions on the 
cultiu^al following subjects: Economy in the Home, the Balanced Ration, 

College. Bread, and Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. Dr. Clara M. 

Davis, of Lansing, gave an address on Modern Medicine and the 
Laity, and Prof. Jessie Phelps, of the State Normal College, spoke on Civic Hygiene. 

This Women's Congress was the occasion for the meeting of the Michigan joint 
committee of the school patrons department of the National Education Associa- 
tion. Four of the five members were present, representing all the affiliated organi- 
zations except one. At the same time the educational committee of the state 
federation conferred on possible work for the coming year. 

The Home Economics division of the college entered on a revised coiu'se of study 
at the opening of the college year. The departments of bacteriology, physics, 
botany, drawing, and design continue to offer special courses for women, and new 
courses relating to food and nutrition are given by the chemistry and physiology 
departments. The work in dietetics is enlarged, as is also that in textiles and house- 
hold art. The economics and sociology department is a popular one, many women 
students electing work in these subjects. In the freshman and sophomore years 
an option in music is offered — two credits per term — and the work of the last two 
years is entirely elective, except that in Home Economics. These technical sub- 
jects amount to eight credits a year through the first two years, and to fifteen cred- 
its, or one-fourth of the total, in the junior year. Seniors are permitted to major 
in either domestic art or domestic science, or they may take both, in which case 
half of their time is devoted to the technical Home Economics work. The 
remodelled domestic science laboratory with the group system of desks and the 
complete new equipment makes possible more advanced study in this line. 

A short course in Home Economics commencing January 4, 191 2, and lasting 
Universitv f ^^S^it weeks was offered for the first time. Instruction was given 
Missouri '^ cooking, sewing, home care of the sick, laundry work, sanita- 

tion, landscape gardening, care of flowers, growing of vegetables 
and small fruits, butter making, and poultry raising. 

In the department of home science once a month the students give public demon- 
Montana strations in cooking, all ladies of the town being invited. The 
State College, outline shows a large and well chosen variety of topics. 

This institution opened in New York in December, under the directorship of 
Miss Mary L. Read. The purpose of the school is to provide practical instruction 

in the home care and training of children, in eugenics, and in the 
School of problems of the family. 

Mothercraft. The plan of the school includes a kindergarten, a day nursery, 

a boarding nursery, and instruction for adults. Three public 
meetings have already been held at the school: One in December at which the 
speakers were President David Starr Jordan, Mrs. Frederick Schoff, Dr. John 



19 1 2] News from the Field 191 

Cronin, and Mrs. Francis Gundry of Cleveland, Ohio; and two in January, one at 
which Professor Crampton, and Dr. Thomas D. Wood, of Columbia University, 
spoke on What is Eugenics, and the other on the Social Value of Mother's Training, 
addressed by President G. Stanley Hall. 

An announcement has been received from this institution, which is conducted 
by Miss G. E. Sanders. Courses of from four to twelve lessons 
Seattle each are ofifered in elementary and advanced cookery, and special 

School of courses for sickroom cookery, courses for business women, training 

Household for maids, a waitresses and young housekeepers course, dietetics. 
Economics. marketing, and feeding of children. 

Miss Josephine T. Berry writes as follows: 

I have found here a notable opportunity. The college is large and strong. The 
science departments are up-to-date, and ready and very willing to help work out 
a strong course for our young women. My plan for a four years' 
State College course has been adopted. I can only hope it may prove to be a 
of Washing- wise one. We are fortunate in having fine men in architecture 
to*i« and fine arts as well as in science. I myself am teaching physiologi- 

cal chemistry and dietetics. 

The Naples Table Association for Promoting Laboratory Research by Women 
announces a prize of $1000 for the best thesis written by a woman, on a scientific 
Ellen H subject, embodying new observations and new conclusions based 

Richards ^^ ^" independent laboratory research in biological (including 

Research psychological), chemical, or physical science, 

p . The theses offered in competition are to be presented to the 

executive committee of the association and must be in the hands 
of the chairman of the committee on the prize, Dr. Lilian Welsh, Goucher Col'ege, 
Baltimore, Md., before February 25, 1913. The prize will be awarded at the 
annual meeting in April, 1913. Each thesis must be submitted under a pseudo- 
nym and must be accompanied by a sealed envelope, enclosing the author's name 
and address, and superscribed with a title corresponding to one borne by the manu- 
script. 

The papers presented will be judged by a regularly appointed board of examiners, 
or by such specialists as they may choose. The association reserves the right to 
withhold the award to the prize, if the theses presented are not, in the judgment 
of this board, of adequate merit to deserve the award. 

This is the sixth prize to be offered by the association. In April, 191 1, the prize 
was named the Ellen Richards Research Prize in recognition of the devoted service 
of Mrs. Richards as chairman of the committee on the prize since its appointment 
in iQoo. Circulars giving additional information may be obtained from the sec- 
retary, Ada Wing Mead (Mrs. A. D.), 283 Wayland Avenue, Providence, R. I. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

The Principles of Human Nutrition. W. H. Jordan. The Macmillan Com- 
pany. New York, 1912, pp. xii + 450- $i.75- 

This volume deals in a non-technical fashion with the problem of human nutri- 
tion in its scientific, economic, and social aspects. It is written in a conversational 
style by a recognized specialist in the field of animal nutrition, and is unique in the 
number of illustrations from agricultural practice. It is also one of the very few 
books devoted exclusively to the nutrition of the normal individual, and on this 
account especially desirable for the beginner in this subject. 

Its purpose, as expressed by the author, is to cull out the technical facts from the 
large body of literature unavailable to the reader without special scientific training, 
and to center around these facts a philosophy of life. 

Part I treats of the elements and compounds of human nutrition and the fate 
and function of foodstuft's in the body. It is almost inevitable that in the effort 
to treat so complex a subject very simply, certain facts are at different times dif- 
ferently emphasized and appear almost contradictory, as for example, when we 
read on page 5, "Just as the western farmer obtained heat by burning corn in the 
fireplaces, so do human beings maintain body temperature at the necessary degree 
by consuming food to be burned," and again on page 169, "The view is now held 
that all body heat is a secondary product, that combustion first supports muscular 
activity with heat as a waste product." There are two very unfortunate misprints 
in this part of the text, on page 25, where the classification of organic matter into 
two divisions, (i) proteins and non-proteins and (2) carbohydrates, fats, and acids 
is rather puzzling, and on page 34, where a column of bases is headed acids. In the 
treatment of the ash constituents, the importance of iron is much underestimated. 
None the less, this is by far the most satisfactory presentation of the fundamental 
facts of nutrition in any popular work. 

Part II discusses the quantitative aspects of nutrition and offers many practical 
suggestions toward the realization of a well-balanced diet, with concrete illustra- 
tions, as on page 206, where are presented two meals of equal weight but greatly 
unlike in the amount of actual nutrients, or again on page 212, where two lunches 
of equal fuel value but very different amounts of ash constituents are given. The 
chapters on Food Economics and Special Dietetic Measures (food fads) are a wel- 
come addition to the usual treatment of the subject, and the nutrition of the child 
is broadly treated. This Chapter (XIV) logically follows that on the Relation of 
Diet to the Varying Conditions of Life (XI) ; in fact, considerable rearrangement of 
the somewhat disconnected topics in this part of the book would add to its strength. 
The section on simplicity in diet needs to be interpreted as a plea for few dishes at a 
meal rather than a limitation of the individual to only two or three articles of food 
for a long period unless these are chosen with great discretion, so as to satisfy all 
the physiological requirements. In our present state of knowledge of the influence 
of specific foods, this is a difficult thing to do. 

192 



1912] Books and Literature 193 

On the whole, this book is a welcome addition to our text-books on the subject 
of nutrition, and will prove of great value to the general teacher of the subject, who 
has hitherto been forced to depend almost entirely on pamphlet literature for the 
student who has not had advanced scientific training. 

Mary D. Swartz Rose. 

A Study of Food, I. Edited by Mary P. Vanzile. Agr. Ed. Kans. Agr. Col, 
3, 1910, no. I, pp. 64, figs. 10. 

The eight chapters of this pamphlet, written by different persons, deal with 
such subjects as the definition and classification of food, inorganic and organic food 
substances, digestion and absorption, fats and oils, roots, tubers, cereals, fruits, 
sugar, starch, and green vegetables. 

Food Preparation and its Relation to the Development of Efficient Person- 
ality in the Home. Laura C. Rockwood. Pop. Sci.Mo., 79, 1911, no. 3, 
pp. 277-298. 

A summary and discussion of Home Economics problems with some general 
deductions. "The training for educated homemakers should include a thorough 
knowledge of the subject of personal hj-giene with its three divisions: (i) Nutri- 
tion, or a knowledge of the food requirements of mankind and the best way to 
provide for them; (2) environment, or a knowledge of air, soil, dwellings, clothing; 
(3) activity, or a knowledge of the correct proportion between exercise and rest." 

What Children Should Eat. Edith Green. Human Welfare Publications, 
Southwest Harbor, Me., pp. 20. 

This artistic little pamphlet will surely be welcomed by those for whom it is 
prepared — parents, teachers, kindergartners, and settlement workers. It is dedi- 
cated to "Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, who gave the impulse to the study of Home Science 
in America." What children should eat, when, how, and how much, how to choose, 
combine, and prepare their food are the subjects that are treated in the most terse, 
clear, attractive form. There are no introductions or farewells, no padding of any 
kind. It would be difficult to find an unnecessary word in the maxim-like statements 
that fill the 20 pages of this charming, quaintly illustrated booklet, and the teaching 
is sound. Even with the treatment of the subject What Food is Needed in Special 
Diseases the physician will have no quarrel. 

Food and Feeding. Brit. Med. Jour., 1910, nos. 2563, pp. 388-390; 2564, pp. 
453- 454- 
A discussion of vegetarianism, low proteid diet, and other dietary systems. 

What Constitute Good Meals for the Average American Home? Elizabeth 
H. Patterson. Nat. Grange Mo., 8, 1911, no. 2, pp. 10, ii. 

In connection with this general discussion sample menus are given which show 
the weight of the foods selected, their cost, and their protein and energy content, 
as well as a table showing these factors for unit portions of common food materials. 



194 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

The Food of Factory Operatives. A. Fischer. Umschau., 14, 1910, no. 28, 
PP- 549-553- 
A considerable amount of information is summarized in this general discussion 
of the problem of providing a suitable diet for workingmen. 

Quick Lunches for Efficiency and Health. Alida Lattimore. Survey, 25. 
1911, no. 25, pp. 1012-1014, fig. I. 

A brief account is given of methods followed in serving luncheons to large groups 
in schools and manufacturing establishments in Rochester, N. Y. The work has 
demonstrated that it is possible to suuply good food under satisfactory conditions 
at reasonable prices and that the enterprise can be self-supporting. 

Camp Cookery. H. Kephart. New York, 1910, pp. xvi + 154, figs. 13. 

The kind and amount of provisions needed in camp, cooking utensils, and similar 
questions are discussed and directions given for the preparation of a large number 
of dishes. An appendix contains data regarding weights and measures used in 
cookery and regarding the weight and bulk of different food products. 

Manual for Army Cooks, 1910. H. G. Sharpe et al. War Dept., U. S. Of. Com. 
Gen. Doc, 379, pp. 185, figs. 23. 

Kitchen equipment and devices are described, the cutting of meat discussed, and 
a large number of recipes given in quantities suitable for sixty men. Bills of fare 
are also suggested. Special sections are devoted to field cookery and to messing 
troops on railroad trains. Water cooling devices, improvised filters, and the 
experimental fireless cooker issued by the army subsistence department are 
described. As a whole the book contains much data of interest to teachers, stu- 
dents, and institution managers. 

British Rural Life and Labour. F. G. Heath. London, 191 1, pp. xi + 318. 

The material for this book is drawn partly from "blue books" and other ofi&cial 
sources, and partly from the author's own observation. It describes the classifi- 
fication, wages, and general living conditions of rural laborers in England, Wales, 
Scotland, and Ireland, and gives tables of wages and food in different districts. 
The appendix (pp. 181-300) contains a comparison between the conditions preva- 
lent today and those of thirty or forty years ago. No one interested in dietetics in 
Europe should overlook such books as this. 

Diet at Wycliffe College, Stonehouse. A. Broadbent. Veg. Messenger and 
Health Rev., 8 ser., 8, 1911, pp. 45-49. 

The food served to a group of fifty boys at Wycliffe College, Goucestershire, who 
follow a vegetarian diet, is described and sample menus quoted. Milk and other 
dairy products as well as some eggs are used in addition to vetegable foods in con- 
siderable variety. 



1912] Books and Literature 195 

Discoveries of Social History from 1200 to 1910. Decotiveries d' Historic Sociale, 
1210-1910. George D'Avenel. Paris: E. Flammarion, 1910, pp. 334. 

In this interesting summary and digest of historical data, a large amount of 
valuable information is given regarding living conditions in earlier times, par- 
ticularly in France. Such topics are considered as wages, prices of food stu&s, 
domestic economy, household management, and agriculture. 

The Rations of the Army of Aragon in 1285. A. Balland. Rev. Set., Paris, 
49, 19" 1 1, no. 13, pp. 403, 404. 

This article summarizes a study of the accounts of a commissary agent in the 
army of the king of France during an invasion of Aragon in the thirteenth century. 
Prices, measures, and materials are quoted. The staple items are wheat, barley, 
flour, bread, horse beans, peas, rice, almonds, salt pork, wine, small quantities of 
sugar, and oats. Portable mills were used for grinding the barley and wheat. 
These have disappeared from use in modern armies, as have also almonds, which 
were consumed in considerable quantities in the Middle Ages. Otherwise the 
staples of the present French army ration are much the same, plus army bread, 
haricot beans, salt, cofifee, fresh and preserved meats, fats, condensed soups, and 
spirits. 

Food of Patagonian Natives. C. W. Furlong. Harper's Mo. Mag., 122, 1911, 
no. 732, pp. 813-827. 

Food, shelter, customs, and other living conditions are described as a result of 
a personal study of the Tehuelches of Patagonia. It is apparent from the author's 
account that their diet consists very largely of meat, either game or more commonly 
the flesh of mares. 

Cost of Living in Mexico, L. J. Kenna. Daily Cons, and Trade Reps. U. S., 
14, pp. 278, 279. 

Information is summarized regarding the prices of foods and the source of food 
supply in Mexico. 

Cost of Living in Siberia. L. Maynard. Daily Cons, and Trade Reps. U. S., 
14, p. 279. 

Data regarding the price of provisions and family expenses are given. 

Chinese Wages and Cost of Living. W. R. Dorsey. Daily Cons, and Trade 
Reps. U. S., 14, p. 831. 

This brief account contains some data regarding the kinds of food used by Chinese 
laborers in Shanghai. Pork, fresh and cured, ham, sausage, flour, rice, sugar, and 
tea are the articles mentioned. 

Nutrition and Increased Cost of Living. Lichtenfelt. VolksernHhrung und 
Teuerung, Stuttgart, 1912, pp. 61. 

This study is inspired by the increased cost of living in Germany. It includes 
a survey of available food materials, methods and cost of production, and causes 



196 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

for increase of prices. Cooperative buying and selling, the establishment of govern- 
ment bureaus for the study of related questions, and international cooperation 
for the regulation of wages and prices are suggested as solutions of the problems 
raised. 

Beef, its Quality and Classification. L. Villain. Rec. Med. Vel., 86, 1909, 
no. 23, pp. 799-812, figs. 6; 87, 1910, no. i, pp. 26-32. 

Information is summarized regarding French methods of cutting meat in con- 
nection with discussions of quality and grading. 

The Frozen Meat Industry in the Argentine Republic. P. Berges. An. 
Soc. Rural Argentina, 1910, p. 65-76. 

This article gives a historical account of the frozen meat industry in Argentina, 
the statistics of the trade, and a description of the methods of production and sani- 
tary inspection. It also discusses the comparative hj^gienic and nutritive value of 
chilled or frozen meat as compared with fresh meat, and the advantages of an 
increased consumption of frozen meat in Europe. 

Study of the Composition of Sausage. L. Pautet. Hyg. Viande et Lait, 5, 
i9ii,no. 9, pp. 505-513- 
Information is summarized regarding the method of making different sorts of 
foreign sausage. 

American Catfishes: Habits, Culture, and Commercial Importance. W. C. 
Kendall. U. S. Dept. Com. and Labor, Bur. Fisheries Doc. 733, pp. 39. 

Catfishes of different sorts are described and their food value is discussed, as 
well as their food habits, cultivation for market, and similar topics. 

The Care of Milk in the Home. Mo. Bull. Ohio. Bd. Health, i, pp. 15-17. 

Simple directions are given for the care and protection of milk in homes, particu- 
larly those in which the household equipment is limited. 

The History, Development, and Statistics of Milk Charities in the United 
States. J. W. Kerr. Puh. Health and Mar. Hosp. Serv., U. S. Pub. Health 
Rpts., 25, 1910, pp. 1451-1467. 

Statistical and other data are summarized. 

Microscopical Study of Cereal Foods. W. H. Kendell. Midland Druggist 
and Pharm. Rev., 44, 1910, no. 7, pp. 419-422; abs. in Chem. Zentbl. ,igio, 
II, no. 17, p. 1322. 

An extended microscopical study of the starch and cell tissue of breakfast foods 
made from wheat, corn, oats, rice, and barley. 



1 91 2] Books and Literature 197 

The Value of Utah Wheats for Bread Making Purposes. R. Stewart. 
Deserel Farmer, 8, igii.no. 11, pp. 161, i68, 173. 

In a discussion advocating the growing of wheats which combine yield and desir- 
able chemical, milling, and baking qualities, data are summarized regarding Utah- 
grown wheats. 

The Chemical Composition of KaflBr Corn. I. R. O. Baird and C. K.Francis. 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chetn., 2, 1910, no. 12, pp. S3i-S34i fig- i- 

The results of a comparative study of KaflBr corn and Indian corn are given, 
particularly with reference to proximate composition, the composition of the nitro- 
gen-free extract, the value of the two grains for producing alcohol, the character 
of the fat and ash constituents, and the draft of the two crops on the soil. Accord- 
ing to the authors' summary, proximate analysis shows that Kaffir corn compares 
favorably with Indian corn. 

"KaflBr corn is more uniform than corn in composition. It is a cheap food. 
Alcohol and glucose can be produced cheaper from Kafl&r corn than from corn if the 
cost of the raw material is alone considered. KaflBr corn removes a smaller quan- 
tity of the important plant foods from the soil than corn. This fact has been 
shown by analyses of the ash of both grains which were grown under similar condi- 
tions. The fat from the Kaffir kernel is a solid which melts at 44- 2°. It should be 
valuable in the manufacture of soaps and fatty acid products." 

The Soy Bean and its use for Food Purposes. R.Muschler. Pharm.Zig., 56, 
1911, no. 41, pp. 415, 416, fig. i; abs. in Zenlbl. Biochem. u. Biochys., 12, 1911, 
no. 4-5, p. 116. 

A summary and discussion of data regarding the composition and uses of soy 
beans. 

Banana Flour as a Food for Infants. E. Pritchard. Brit. Med. J., 1910, no. 

2598, p. II45- 

Data, including information based on the author's experience, are summarized 
which led to the conclusion that banana flour in the form of gruel or a decoction 
may be useful in infant feeding. 

Receipts for Tomatoes, Peppers, and Cucumbers. Carrie N. Hyde. Winthrop 
Norm, and Indus. Col. S. C. Bui., 3, 1910, no. 6, pp. 14. 

A number of recipes are given. 

The Preparation of Sauerkraut or Sour Cabbage. Schiller-Tietz, Abs. in 
Dettt. Essigindus., 14, 1910, nos. 48, pp. 353, 354; 49, pp. 361, 362. 

A detailed description of methods for preparing this material. 

The Dietetic Value of Fruit. W. R. Lazenby. Trans. Mass. Hort. Soc, 
1910, pt. I, pp. 89-97. 

In a simunary of data on the food value of frmts and nuts the author states that 
he has found characteristic differences in the water contentof under-developed and 



iqS The Journal of Home Economics [April 

well-developed fruits. "Nubbin" strawberries, "cull" peaches, and "runty" 
apples, contained less than 80 per cent as compared with qo per cent in fine but not 
overgrown specimens of these fruits. He states further that q2 per cent of water 
was found in fine large peaches in comparison with 84 per cent in small peaches of 
the same variety. 

Data are also recorded for a number of sorts of nuts, regarding the number of 
nuts in a pound, -the percentage of shell or waste and the percentage of kernel, and 
the cost of nuts and of the edible portion. 

"It was found during the course of the investigation that with the most careful 
cracking of some of the larger nuts, there is a 'milling' or cracking loss of nearly 2 per 
cent of the total weight of kernels." 

Principles and Practice of Ice Cream Making. R. M. Washburn. Vermont 
Sta. Bui., 155, pp. 92, dgm. i. 

The importance of the ice cream industry in the United States and the possible 
development of this industry in Vermont are discussed, a large amount of informa- 
tion on the classification of ice creams and other similar topics is presented, and the 
results are reported of studies of ice cream making particularly under factory con- 
ditions. As a whole this bulletin presents information of great interest to house- 
keepers and teachers, as well as to those engaged in the ice cream trade. 

Quotations from the author's summary follow: 

"There are two general classes of ice cream recognized; the plain (raw), and the 
French (cooked custard). 

"The flavor is influenced by the fat content of the cream; by its freedom from 
contamination of all sorts; by a low cream acidity; by the addition of minute quan- 
tities of common salt; and by the ripening or aging of the ice cream. A good body 
is the result of the presence of plenty of fat. but not too much; of the aging and thor- 
ough cooling of the cream; and, sometimes, of the use of filters. A fine texture is 
promoted by the richness of the cream; by the proper conduct of the freezing proc- 
ess; by the aging of the cream; and, if the goods are not to be used promptly, by 
the use of a gelatinoid binder. Swell (or overrun) is caused by the incorporation of 
air into the cream, and is affected by the viscosity of the cream; by the rate of 
freezing; and particularly by the length of time elapsing while the cream is dropping 
from 34 to 29° F.; and by the speed of the agitating mechanism. The richness or 
leanness of the cream within working limits has but little effect thereon; neither 
does the use of gelatin, gum tragacanth, or other binders. The time element in the 
conduct of the process depends upon the initial temperature of the cream; upon the 
rate of flow and the temperature of the brine; upon the proportions of salt and ice 
used; upon the fineness or coarseness of the fragments of ice and the particles of 
salt; and upon the amount of sugar used in the cream. 

"Its flavor, fat content, warmth or coldness, acidity, the method of handling 
(separation, pasteurization, homogenization,etc.), all these have effect upon the 
final product. A clean cream is of course essential. Neither a very rich nor a too 
thin cream should be used, about 2 3 per cent fat seeming ideal. . . . 

"A filler is used to give body: a binder to prevent coarse crystallization when held 
for one day or longer. Starch, flour, eggs, and rennet are used as fillers with greater 
or less satisfaction, generally less. Gelatin, gum tragacanth, and ice cream powders 



19 1 2] Books and Literature 199 

are used as binders often with good satisfaction; but their use, though legal in Ver- 
mont, is forbidden in several States. There appear to be arguments on both sides 
of the question as to the advisability of the use of binders in commercial cream. 
The adverse arguments are that inferiority and age are thus concealed, the swell 
unduly augmented, the use of low grade materials encouraged, insanitary holding 
conditions favored, and adequate food control rendered difficult. Those advanced 
in favor of their use are that they prevent granulation and consequent deteriora- 
tion, discourage the return and reusage of unsold goods, and assist trade regulation. 

"The reasons for, the necessity of, and the directions for modifying and standard- 
izing of creams used for ice cream making are described and examples of the calcula- 
tions given, together with tabulated matter pertinent thereto; a scheme for the sim- 
ple testing of the butter fat content of ice cream is explained; a score card for ice 
cream judging is suggested; the method of calculating ice cream yields is reviewed; 
the equipment necessary for one to enter upon commercial ice cream making on a 
moderate scale is indicated; the profits of the industry as compared with butter 
making are shown; a few unsolved problems are briefed; references are made to 
literature which will prove helpful to operators; the scant bibliography is listed; 
and the bulletin is closed with an index." 

A number of formulas for ice cream making are presented. The bulletin also 
contains a list of references to ice cream literature. 

Ice Cream. A. McGill. Lab. InlaTtd Rev. Dept. Canada Bui., 218, pp. 15. 

Of 125 samples examined 88 were reported up to standard with respect to the 
amount of fat required, namely, 14 per cent. According to the author there has 
been a very marked improvement in the quality of Canadian ice cream during the 
past two years. 

The Solubility of Zinc Electroplate in Lemonade and Citric Acid Solu- 
tions. H. E. Barnard and H. E. Bishop. Ann. Rpt. Bd. Health Ind., 27, 
1908, pp. 254-256. 

Under the auspices of the Indiana State Board of Health, experiments were 
undertaken to determine the amount of zinc dissolved when lemonade and citric 
acid solutions were kept for varying lengths of time in galvanized iron receptacles. 

The results showed that the citric acid solutions were much more active than the 
lemon solutions, though their acid flavor was about the same. The length of time 
the solution was in contact with the container also exercised a marked effect, much 
more of the zinc being dissolved on the second and third day than on the first. 
Considering both lemonade and citric acid solutions, a range was noted of from 
0.0815 gram zinc sulphate per 100 cc. in the case of a sample of lemonade kept in a 
container twenty-four hours to 3.032 grams in the case of lemonade in contact with 
the container for seventy-two hours. "As the dose of zinc citrate runs from 0.2 
to 0.8 gram, it is evident that a person drinking an ordinary 'schooner' of this 
lemonade would be taking into his system a very large dose of this salt." 

The state board of health accordingly issued a rule forbidding the use of zinc- 
coated metal containers in the manufacture and storage of acid drinks. 

IDEPARTViEM 

. . • V 

fcOLSLHOLD SCIENCE^ 



200 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Commercial Food Products of Special Dietetic Value. A. De Souza Reis. 
2. Cong. Inlernat. Hyg. Aliment. Bruxelles (Proc), 1910, Sect. 6, p. 72. 

This article is a protest against the unbased claims made by many manufacturers 
of proprietary foods for the special dietetic value of their wares, and a plea for 
proper official supervision of the advertisements and labels of such goods. 

Some Questions of Metabolism and Nutrition. A. Gigon. Miinchen. Med. 
Wchnschr., 58, 191 1, no. 25, pp. 1343-1347. 

From a summary of data and the results of his own experiments, the author con- 
cludes that he has proved with certainty that the greater part of the carbon of 
protein remaining after the cleavage of urea is used by the normal body for fat for- 
mation, a smaller part being used for carbohydrate formation. 

The Protein Requirements; or, "Do We Eat too Much Meat?" W.Tibbies. 
Brit. Med. Jour., 1911, no. 2655, pp. 1349-1451. 

This is a discussion of current theories on the subject, supplemented by estimates 
of the per capita protein consumption as indicated by the statistics of food materials 
consumed in various countries. According to the latter figures, the author ques- 
tions whether physiologists have not over-estimated the protein consumption, 
at least in European countries. He concludes that save for persons in the decline 
of life, Voit's "optimum" standard furnishes a safer guide than Chittenden's 
physiological ' ' minimum. ' ' 

The Purin Content of Common Articles of Food. H. D. Arnold and R. C. 
Larrabee. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 58, 1912, no. i, pp. 18-19. 
The authors summarize present day conceptions of the purin bodies as they are 
found in the body and in food materials with special reference to such points as 
concern the general medical practitioner. 

Disorders of Purin Metabolism. A. C. Reed and G. B.Wallace. Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assoc, 58, 1912, no, i, pp. 20-25. 

A discussion of current theories of normal and abnormal purin metabolism, to- 
gether with the reports of tests of purin metabolism made by the authors on patients 
suffering with gout, parenchymatous nephritis, chronic and recurring acute articular 
rheumatism and syphilitic and alcoholic cirrhosis, with a case of normal purin toler- 
ance for comparison. The effect of certain drugs, notably solurol, is also noted. 

The Melting Point of Fats as it Affects the Speed with which the Stomach 
is Emptied. F. Tangl and A. Erdelyi. Biochem. Zeitschr., 34, 191 1, pp. 
94-100. 

Experiments were made on dogs with fats of such varying melting points as 
linseed oil, olive oil, pork fat, and beef tallow. In general it was determined that 
the speed with which the fats leave the stomach stands in direct relation to their 
melting point; the higher the melting point, the slower the passage of the fat through 
the stomach. If the fats of high melting point were warmed to from 47 to 55 



191 2] Books and Literature 201 

their passage was hastened. If the various fats are brought to the same degree of 
viscosity by changing the temperatures, they leave the stomach at the same rate 
of speed. 

The Effect of Foodstuffs in the Causation and Prevention of Dental 
Caries. .]. S. Wallace. Brit. Med. Jour., 1910, no. 2592, pp. 617-619. 

The author believes that while bacteria are the exciting cause, dental caries is 
due to the lodging of "viscous and fermentable carbohydrates about the teeth," 
and the resulting acid formed. He emphasizes the need for using fibrous foods as a 
means of counteracting such conditions. The diet which he considers not conducive 
to the formation of dental caries in children is made up of fish, meat, fruit, salads, 
and similar foods, while the one which he considers likely to induce dental caries 
consists of porridge and milk, bread and jam, mashed potatoes, and other soft 
foods. 

The paper is followed by a discussion. 

The Formation of Tartar from Products Derived from the Carbono-phos- 
phates of Saliva. A. Barille. Jour. Pharm. el Chim., 7 ser., 3, 1911, no. 
12, pp. 582-585; abs. in Chem. Zenlbl., 1911, II, no. 5, p. 297. 

According to the author's observations, tooth powders containing weak acid, such 
as citric acid, benzoic acid, thymic acid, or boric acid are to be recommended for 
preventing the formation of tartar, as is also the use of sour fruits after meals, or 
water containing carbonic acid. Alkaline dentifrices, in his opinion, should not be 
used. 

The Importance of Common Salt in Metabolism. H. Strauss. Berlin. Klin. 
Wchnschr., 47, 1910, no. 50, pp. 2292-2295. 

A digest of data on the relation of salt to nutrition, particularly with reference 
to pathological conditions. Such a paper is of interest as it bring together much 
data on the question, too often discussed on the basis of belief or opinion rather 
than on the basis of experimental research. 

Rules and Regulations for the Enforcement of the [Florida] Pure Food 
and Drugs Law. B. E. McLin and R. E. Rose. Tallahassee: Dept. Agr., 
1911, pp. 26. 

The regulations approved June 5, 191 1 , are presented. 

Abstract of Amended Pure Food and Drugs Law. R. E. Rose and B. E. 
McLin. Pure Food and Drugs Law [Fla.], 191 1, Circ. i, pp. 7. 

The attention of manufactureres and others is directed to the amended state pure 
food law. 

Enforcing the Provisions of the Pure Food and Drugs Law. R. E. Rose and 
B. E. McLin. Pure Food and Drugs Law, [Fla.], 191 1, Circ. 2, pp. 3. 

The dates on which certain provisions of the pure food and drugs law of 191 1 be- 
came effective are stated and the matter discussed. 



202 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Inspection Work in Caddo (Shreveport) and other Parishes. Bien. Rpt. 

La. Bd. Health, 1908-09, pt. 3, pp. 7-15. 

In connection with the annual health report for 1909 some information is given 
regarding the inspection of bakeries, the milk inspection, meat and its inspection, 
and the examination of a sample of meat. 

Pure Food Work in Westfield, Mass. Margaret Wagner. Collier's Weekly, 
47, 1911, nos. 23, pp. 13, 14, 22, figs. 4; 24, pp. 16, 17, 

A popular account is given of analytical and inspection work carried on for a 

number of years largely under the auspices of the state normal school. As a result 
of this work a list was prepared of manufacturers whose goods were judged on exam- 
ination to be free from adulteration. It is pointed out that such a list by no means 
represents all the manufacturers of pure products. 

Simple Tests for Food Purity — What the Housewife may do to Detect Adult- 
erations. S. L. Bastin. Sci. Amer., 105, 191 1, no. 20, pp. 432, figs. lo. 

Some methods for detecting food adulteration are described in a popular way. 

The Exclusion of Adulterated, Sophisticated, and Inferior Materials 
from Commerce as a Result of Strict Control of Food Supplies. A. 
Juckenack. Ztschr. Utitersuch. Nahr. u. Genussmll., 21, 1911, no. 2, pp. 83-<)i. 

Statistical and other data are summarized and discussed regarding the improve- 
ment in conditions due to pure food work. 

Sanitation of Bakeries and Restaurant Kitchens. C. B. Ball. Jour. Amer. 
Pub. Health Assoc, i, 1911.- no. 2, pp. 102-108. 
A summary of information based on experience gained in dealing with this sub- 
ject in Chicago and suggestions for betterment. 

Sanitary Inspections. Attn. Rpt. Bd. Health Ind., 28, 1909, pp. 353-420. 

The board of health work undertaken with reference to the sanitary control of 
food-producing and distributing establishments and canneries is reported. 

The Bacterial Condition of Protected and Unprotected Foods at Restau- 
rants, Meat Markets, Grocery Stores, Bakeshops, and Fruit Stores. 
H. E. Barnard. Ann. Rpt. Bd. Health Ind., 27, 1908, pp. 517-523. pls. 4- 

The author concludes that foods kept in glass cases were in every case practically 
free from dust and accompanying bacteria, while food on exposed tables and racks 
was surrounded by air heavily laden with dirt and bacterial life. Cleanliness of 
floors and utensils lessened to a certain extent the number of bacteria present, but 
counters and stands near sidewalks were always surrounded with atmospheric dust 
and dirt. The author's studies were concerned chiefly with the relative number of 
bacteria found on the culture plates inoculated under different conditions and the 
types of bacteria were not thoroughly differentiated. "But there can be no doubt 
that they were varied and included both harmless and injurious forms, originating 



1912] Books and Literature 203 

in the manure of the streets, the spittle from diseased lungs and nasal passages, and 
in every other form of the waste products of men and animals." 

The Occurrence and Survival of Micro-Organisms on the Surface of 
Pastry and Confectionery Exposed on Streets and in Public Places. 
E. Maurel. Compt. Rend Soc. Biol., Paris.. 69, 1910, no. 33, pp. 427-430. 

From experiments reported the author concludes that a large number of bacteria 
are found in large numbers on the surface of confectionery and pastry exposed for 
sale without protection and that such bacteria are capable of reproduction and may 
be dangerous. 

Ins and Outs of Eatinghouses. Cornelia G. Mather. ///. Agr., 16, 1912, no. s, 
pp. 166-168. 

This article discusses the general question and includes a proposed score-card for 
judging restaurants, etc. 

A White List of Food Manufacturers. Purity is the Best Policy. L. B. 
Allyn. Collier's Weekly, 48, 191 1, no. 7, pp. 23, 24, 26, figs. 7. 

A "white list" is given of food manufacturers whose goods were shown at the 
recent pure food show in New York. 

The Arrangement of the Kitchen in Institutions for the Care of Large 
Numbers. W. Sternberg. Ztschr. Hyg. u. Infectionskrank., 70, 1911, no. 2, 
p. ais. 

A discussion of the best arrangement of buildings with special reference to kitchens 
in hospitals, barracks, etc., with the general conclusion that it is advantageous 
to decentralize the kitchens and serving rooms,, and that in hospitals the location 
of the kitchen should be as important a factor in determining the plan of the build- 
ings as that of the operating room. 

Heat-Insulating Efficiency of Vaccuum- Jacketed Bottles. A. A. Somer- 
ville. Sci. Amer., Sup., 72, 1911, no. 1855, p. 53, dgms. 2. 

From an experimental study the conclusion was reached that the highest efiiciency 
in maintaining low temperature was attained when the layer of liquid in the vaccum- 
jacketed bottle was 6 or 7 in. deep, or, in other words, when the bottle was nearly 
fiUed. 

Fibers Used in Textile and Allied Industries. C. A. Mitchell and R. M. 
Prideaus. London, 1910, pp. xii + 196 + 32, figs. 66. 

Microscopical descriptions and chemical tests are given as well as general descrip- 
tive material regarding wool, silk, cotton, and other fibers in this handbook, which, 
as the authors slate, deals with the principal fibers used in "what for want of a 
better term may be called the 'isolated' condition," that is, "fibers used in a more 
or less dissociated condition in spinning, weaving, cordage, brush making, and 
upholstery." 



204 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [April 

The Determination of Cotton and Linen, Physical, Chemical, and Micro- 
scopic Methods. Alois Herzog, Ph.D., Prussian Higher Textile School, 
Sorau. Translated by Ellen A. Beers, B.S., School of Household Arts, Teach- 
ers College. Pp. 36. Price 25 cents. 

Miss Beers' translation makes available a very useful laboratory guide for college 
and high school teachers of Home Economics. The methods are illustrated by some 
two dozen photographs reproduced in half-tone illustrations and in two color prints. 
The methods have been used very successfully in Professor Vulte's laboratory at 
Teachers College, despite the handicap that the methods were available only in the 
German edition. Now that the translation has been made by Professor Vulte's 
assistant, the manual will be placed in the hands of each student. It is a first 
step to furnish text books for scientific work in the domestic art division of Home 
Economics. 

Studies of the Microscopical Examination of Fibers, Particularly Linen 
and Hemp, for Technical Purposes. R. Korn. Jahresher. Ver. Angew. 
Bot., 7, 1909, pp. 189-234, pis. 2, figs. 12. 

Extended investigations are reported on the identification of fibers. 

Plumbing and Household Sanitation. J. P. Putnam. Garden City, N. Y., 
1911, pp. 718, pi. I, figs. 652. 

Historical data, theories which have to do with the general subject of plumbing, 
and practical and theoretical plumbing problems are discussed in this volume which 
represents a course of lectures delivered before the Plumbing School of the North 
End Union, Boston. 

The Cornell Reading Courses. Lesson for the Farm Home. Household 
Decoration. Martha Van Rensselaer and Helen Binkerd Young. Ithaca, 
N. Y., December, 1911. 

Another excellent bulletin in the Cornell University farm-home series, which 
aims to review the principles underlying the problem of home decoration. Every 
extension department of Home Economics teaching should keep in touch with the 
developments at Cornell. 

Domestic Science Practice. Lillian C. Athey. Washington, 1910, pp. 82. 

In this volume material prepared in sheet form for distribution and use in con- 
junction with lectures at the Cathedral Domestic Arts Institute and with other 
methods of instruction in the preparation of foods has been bound together and 
provided with an index. 

A Syllabus of Household Management. Mary L. Furst. Teachers Col., N. 
Y., Bui., 3d ser., 1911, no. 2, pp. 24. 

This is an outline of the "course of study in household management offered in the 
School of Household Arts, Teachers College. This course, in itself independent, 
shows the bearing of many detailed courses offered by the school as far as they can 
be correlated and interpreted in the light of the general problem of the housekeeper." 



1912] Books and Literature 205 

Housekeeping Notes. Edited by Mabel H.Kittredge. Boston, 191 1, pp. v +97" 

This is a series of lessons on how to furnish and keep house in a tenement flat, 
prepared for use in the Association of Practical Housekeeping Centers in New 
York. The object of the housekeeping center or model flat is to instruct the people 
of the tenements in the art of healthful housekeeping by means of illustrations and 
daily lessons. A class consists of from si.x to eight pupils and the work is all group 
work. Lessons in cleaning, hygiene, cooking, and all matters connected with the 
rearing of children, personal health, and the most economical use of limited means, 
are outlined, and a list is given of suitable furnishings for a model housekeeping flat 
or home for five people, with the itemized cost. 

How Philadelphia Teaches Concerning Distant Countries. Cuba Mag., 
2, 1911, no. 8, pp. 31, 32. 

An outline is given showing how the Philadelphia Museum enables school teach- 
ers to bring classes of children to see the economic products of the country about 
which they have been studying, and how these trips to the Museum are supple- 
mented by illustrated lectures given by persons connected with the Museum or 
with the department of education. 

A List of Books on Domestic Science in the Public Library of the City of 
Boston. Published by the Trustees, Boston, 191 1, pp. 78. Price, 10 cents. 

This list of books in the Boston Public Library should be secured by all interested 
in the literature of Home Economics. It suggests the thought that similar lists 
might, with advantage, be compiled of the collections in our principal public and 
university libraries. Such a list throws light on many interesting matters. To cite 
a single instance, one finds entries of the various editions of Miss Katharine Beech- 
er's Treatise on Domestic Economy, showing that it was published originally in 
Boston in 1841. with revised editions in 1842 in Boston and New York, and 
successive editions in 1842, 1843, 1847, 1849, 1852, 1854, and 1867. 

Among other lists published by the Boston Library are the two on Higher Educa- 
tion of Women, price ten cents each. — B. R. Andrews. 

The Magazine of Domestic Economy. London, W. S. Orr and Company, 
Paternoster Row; and W. R. Chambers, Edinburgh, vol. 2, 1837. 

Volume two of this early journal on Home Economics has recently come to the 
writer's attention. It includes articles on the ventilation of houses, family mills 
for grinding wheat, flower painting, cookery, reading, glass making, and the domes- 
tic economy of glass and soap making. There are miscellaneous notes on markets, 
literary material, articles of diet, as oatmeal for children, carving, the philosophy 
of toasting, vails (or gratuities) to servants, the economy of fuel, and "out of debt, 
out of danger." The contents of the Magazine of Domestic Economy show that 
seventy-five years ago there was a clear appreciation of the very problems which are 
now concerning the Home Economics movement. — B. R. Andrews. 

Vocational Education. Peoria, 111. : The Manual Arts Press. 

This new bimonthly magazine has been estabhshed at Peoria, 111., backed by an 
advisory board of thirty-three educators, manufacturers, and labor leaders repre- 



2o6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

seating all parts of the country, who are advocates of more industrial training in 
public education. The magazine is edited by Prof. Charles A. Bennett of the Brad- 
ley Polytechnic Institute of Peoria. He is assisted by William T. Bawden, Assist- 
ant Dean of the College of Engineering of the University of Illinois, Frank M. 
Leavitt of the University of Chicago, Arthur D. Dean of the New York State Edu- 
cation Department, and William E. Roberts, Supervisor of Manual Training of 
Cleveland. The leading article in the first number of the magazine, entitled Voca- 
tional Education and Its Future, and contributed by Edmund J. James, President 
of the University of Illinois, points out that vocational education is quite in harmony 
with the ideals prevalent today in American colleges and universities. Among the 
other contributions are an illustrated article on the Elementary Industrial School 
in Cleveland and one on sheet metal work in the Illinois State Reformatory. 

Industrial Education. C. E. A. Winslow. Health Education League Bui., 2 a, 
8 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. Price, 7 cents. 

This is another of the admirable Health Education Series. The waste of life 
on the railroad, in the mine, and in the shop is clearly set forth. Some of the topics 
treated are industrial poisons and their prevention, tuberculosis in the dusty trades 
and protection of the worker from dust, the economic valueof factory ventilation, 
eye fatigue and eye strain, medical supervision, and workmen's compensation laws. 

Studies in Economic Relations of Women. Issued by the Department of Re- 
search of the Women's Educational and Industrial Union, Boston. Long- 
mans, Green and Company, publishers. New York City. 

It is announced that this series, of which three volumes are now published, will 
present from year to year monographs upon the various questions involved in the 
economic relations of women, in their industrial employment, in their position in the 
commercial world, and in their professional careers. It will also include studies in 
comparative legislation, especially as related to women's work, in the economics of 
the home, and in the economics of consumption. These monographs will be largely 
the work of women who have held fellowships in the Department of Research, 
and who may also have pursued studies for the degree of Master of Arts or Doctor 
of Philosophy in the Department of Economics or Sociology at Radcliffe, Wellesley, 
Simmons, or Tufts Colleges, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or Col- 
umbia University, in connection with research work. 

The three volumes thus far issued are as follows: 

Volume X. — Vocations for the Trained Woman: Opportunities other than Teaching. 
Edited by Agnes F. Perkins. Price $1.20, net; postage 16 cents extra. 

Among the lines of work discussed are civic service, social service, scientific 
work, domestic science and arts, agriculture, business, clerical and secretarial 
work, literary work, art, and special forms of teaching. 

Volume II. — Labor Laws and Their Enforcement, with Special Reference to Massa- 
chusetts. Edited by Susan M. Kingsbury, Ph.D. Price $2.00 net; postage 24 
cents extra. 

The chapters of this book deal respectively with the early history of factory 
legislation in Massachusetts; unregulated conditions in women's work; weakness 
of the Massachusetts child labor laws; administration of labor legislation in the 



igiz] Books and Literature 207 

United States; labor laws of Massachusetts, 1902-1910; and the regulation of 
private employment agencies in the United States. 

Volume III. — The Living Wage of Women Workers: A Study of Incomes and 
Exper ditures of 450 Wrge-earnir g Women in the City of Boston. By Louise Marion 
Bosworth. Edited With an Introduction by Professor F. Spencer Baldwin, Ph.Di, 
Boston University. Price, $1.00 net. 

The table of contents is as follows: Chapter I, Introduction; chapter II, Homes 
and Lodgings; chapter III, Nominal versus Actual Income; chapter IV, Food; 
chapter V, Rent; chapter VI, Clothing; chapter VII, Health; chapter VIII, Savings 
and Debts; and chapter IX, Miscellaneous Expenditures, including Recreation 
and Education. 

"This material was collected through budget schedules and personal interviews. 
Although the investigation was thus limited in scope, it is believed that the results 
are fairly representative of the living conditions among working women of all 
ranks in an American city. 

"The expenditures of the $9 to $11 wage group may be taken as representing 
the minimum living wage. This class stands midway in the wage scale and rep- 
resents roughly the average of all women workers covered by the investigation. 
It appears moreover, that the average income and the average expenditures of 
this class approximately balance each other, whereas in the two classes standing 
lower in the scale there is a deficit of income below expenditures, and in the two 
classes standing higher in the scale a surplus of income over expenditures, accord- 
ing to the tabulated returns. This fact indicates that the income first becomes 
adequate to meet expenditures when this wage group is reached." 

The Gospel of the Kingdom: Studies in Social Reform and What to Do. 
American Institute of Social Service. Bible House, Astor Place, New York. 

Under this general title, a series of weekly lessons is being published for use in 
Sunday schools. The lessons are prepared under the editorship of Dr. Josiah 
Strong with the assistance of a national committee which includes such well known 
names as Dean George Hodges, Graham Taylor, and Bishop Greer. Half of the 
subjects announced for the year 191 2 are concerned directly with the field of Home 
Economics. For the second quarter, the topic is Woman and the Community, 
with the sub-topics of Woman in the Home, Woman in Industry, and Woman's 
Public Activities; for the third quarter the Home and The Family, with the sub- 
topics, Homes or Tenements, Marriage and Divorce, and Parents and Children. 
During 191 1 the subjects of study have included The Church and Social Purity, 
Immigration, The Church and the Workingman, and Dangerous and Unsanitary 
Occupations and Conditions. The lessons cost 50 cents a year and seem to be 
a wise form of study for adult classes. — B. R. Andrews. 

List of State Directors of Farmers' Institutes and Farmers' Institute 
Lecturers of the United States. U. S. Depart, of Agri. OiEce of Experi- 
ment Stations, cir. 114. 

This list will give club women and extension workers information regarding 
gome available speakers in Home Economics. 



Choose Well Your Decorative 
Materials 




A.REFULLY consider one important fact 
when studying: painting problems — 
the dorability as well as the appear- 
ance of the job will stand or fall accord- 
ing to the materials yoo use. It is 
therefore necessary to choose well the 
ingredients that go to make the paint 
used on or in the house. 



Inferior substitutes for the standard materials, pure white lead 
and linseed oil, are sometimes used because of a belief that 
artistic effects cannot be secured with while lead paint. This 
is a great mistake. The greater durability of white lead paint 
need not be sacrificed for any such reason. More variety of 
surface can be secured with it than in any other way. Flat 
(i.e. dull) finish, silk and egg-shell (semi-flat), high gloss and 
enamel,— all can be easily obtained with white lead paint. Let 
us send you specifications and explanatory literature. 

Dutch Boy Painter White Lead 

and pure linseed oil make durable and 
beautifying paint. For exterior work 
it acts as a protector against the attacks 
of tfme and weather, adding years of 
service to the house. The beautiful ef- 
fect and the ease with which any shade 
or tint can be secured as well as its 
adaptability to any kind of finish 
makes this paint peculiarly desirable 
for interior decoration. 

National Lead Company 

New York Boston Bulfalo Chica£o Cincinnati 

Cleveland San Francisco St. Louis 

John T. Lewis & Bros. Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 
National Lead & Oil Co., Pittsburgh, Pa. 




THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 
Vol. IV JUNE, 191 2 No. 3 

EDITOR— Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

{ Dr. B. R. Axdrews. Teachers College, New York City. 
l^T^T^-r^r>T \T T./-^\T^r^ ' Dr. C. F. Laxgworthy, U. S. Department of Agri- 
EDITORIAL BOARD- ^ ^y_^^^^^^ Washington, D. C. 

( Miss Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, X.Y. 

COLLABOR.ATORS— The Officers and Members of the Council. 

AD\'ERTISIXG— Mrs. CLArorA Q. Murphy, Magazine and Book Company. 
i.?6i Broadway; Telephone: Madison Square-2188, Xew York City. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Jl'xe, 191 2 

Miss Catherine Beecher, the pioneer in Home Economics, Benjamin R. Andrews 211 

Educational suggestions from European life, Edith Greer 222 

The elementary work in preparation of food in college classes: 

Work in Teachers College classes, May B. Van Arsdale 230 

Work in the University of Tennessee, Catherine A. Mulligan 233 

Elementary cookery, Mary P. Van Zile 235 

A cafeteria for college students. Mary Elliott Arnold 243 

The lunch basket problem, Agnes Hunt 246 

High school luncheons in Philadelphia, Emma Smedley 250 

The flour and yeast in bread. Florence I. Dudley 255 

A study of cakes, Ava B. Milam 262 

The household e.xperiment station at Colonia, X. J 267 

After some years of e.xperimentation, what is the educational aim, method, 
and accomplishment in college courses in domestic art? 
Report and recommendations on domestic art education. Agnes Houston 

Craig 270 

Household art from the standpoint of economics, Gertrude Van Hoesen. . 278 

Domestic art, esthetically considered, Mary Wynne Shackleford 282 

Domestic art methods of technical instruction. Ruth Wilmot 284 

Discussion on economic and scientific phases, Anna F. Blohm 290 

What subject matter should constitute a well balanced course of study in 

domestic art? Sadie Swenson . . 1^ 293 

Bibliography of Home Economics literature, Mary D. S. Rose 297 

Summer meetings, American Home Economics Association 301 

Editorials 303 

Xews from the field 308 

Books and literature 309 

Some recent books on Home Economics 311 




Catherine E. Beecher, iSoo-1878. 
Author of A Treatise on Domestic Economy. 



By courtesy of the American Magazine. 



THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 

Vol. IV. JUNE, 1912 No. 3 



MISS CATHERINE E. BEECHER, THE PIONEER IN 
HOME ECONOMICS. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, Ph.D. 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Among the founders of the Home Economics movement in America, 
Miss Catherine E. Beecher is to be accorded first place. During the 
years from 1830 to 1875, she did for American education a work that 
may be properly compared to the services of Ellen H. Richards in the 
following generation. Miss Beecher was the eldest of the famous 
Beecher family, which included the father, Lyman Beecher, a leading 
American clergyman and President of the Lane Theological Seminary 
at Cincinnati; Catherine Beecher, the subject of this sketch; Harriet 
Beecher Stowe; and sLx brothers who were ministers, including Henry 
Ward Beecher and Thomas K. Beecher. 

Miss Catherine Beecher (1800-1878) was bom at East Hampton, 
Long Island. We first know of her, however, in any public way, in 
connection with her school for girls which she established at Hartford, 
Conn., about 1822, and conducted there for ten years. This school 
seems to have been perhaps the best school of its day, with an ad- 
vanced curriculum semi-collegiate in nature, including advanced in- 
struction in Latin, mathematics, and other subjects. For this school 
and other schools like it. Miss Beecher wrote te.xt-bboks in arithmetic, 
ethics, and physiology. A nervous breakdown compelled her to give 
up the school about 1832 and she then made her home in Cincinnati, 
where she was associated ^\'ith her sister, Harriet Beecher, who had 
opened a school in that city. After some years, this school was 
given up and Miss Beecher's later life was devoted to public move- 
ments educational in nature, and to writing and lecturing. 

211 



212 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

A study of her books and of the movements in which she was engaged 
shows several definite centers of activity in her life. She was inter- 
ested in the general education of girls. Her own schools at Hartford 
and Cincinnati were one indication of this interest, as were her text 
books. She thought of education as a great agency for national devel- 
opment, and so she was satisfied with nothing less than plans for 
national improvement. The broad scope of her thought is indicated 
by her essay of 1835 on The Education of Female Teachers, which 
had for its central thought the idea that women would find in 
teaching a profession to which their hand would turn naturally, and 
that the country was suffering from the lack of service of the sort 
which women teachers could give. This same idea is expressed even 
more vigorously in her address of 1846 entitled, The Evils Suffered by 
American Women and American Children; the Causes and the Remedy, 
and had led meantime to the organization of a national movement 
for the training of women teachers and to the establishment of public 
and private schools throughout the coimtry in which they might serve. 
It was at this time that she organized the Central Committee for 
Promoting National Education and secured the cooperation of a large 
number of people throughout the country, obtained the services of 
former-Governor Slade of Vermont as secretary' and field-agent of the 
Committee, and initiated activities which resulted in the placing of 
one thousand women teachers in as many different centers, largely 
throughout the West. Interested as she was in the welfare of the 
country and the welfare of women, she grasped the fundamental fact 
that the home is the social institution through which woman's work 
for society must largely be done; so one finds from the first that she 
paid the greatest regard to the training of girls in the interests and 
activities of the household. This was evident in the schools which she 
conducted and in the reference in the address of 1835 on the education 
of women teachers. In this she urges that household arts should be 
included as a subject of instruction in girls' schools, although she had 
not yet organized the subject-matter in this field as she did six years 
later, in her Treatise on Domestic Economy published in 1841. This 
book, which is the one most commonly associated with Miss Beecher's 
name, is the first modern book treating of the household in a large 
way, fully conscious of its importance as a social institution, fully 
aware of the great interests centered in it, and of the primary fact that 
women must be trained in the practical matters of food, household 
management, care of children, and all standards of home life and com- 



1912] The Pioneer in Home Economics 213 

munity life, if the home is to fulfill its high possibilities. The Treatise 
was followed a year later by the Domestic Receipt Book, a handbook 
of recipes and procedures. We shall speak of the Treatise more in 
detail. 

The address of 1846 on the Evils Suffered by Women and Children is 
a striking statement of the conditions of illiteracy and ignorance which 
prevailed in the United States at that time, the low condition of the 
public schools, and the possibilities inherent in the profession of teach- 
ing, especially if women will recognize it as a calling for which they are 
particularly adapted and for which it would be possible to make prep- 
aration as thorough and as dignified as that which prepares for other 
professions. The address is important from the Home Economics 
point of view, in that domestic economy is now urged as an essential 
element in the education of girls. The writing of the Treatise and 
the Domestic Receipt Book had made clear to Miss Beecher the fact 
that household management could be organized as a subject of in- 
struction and made available for the training of young women. 

In 1852 Miss Beecher organized the American Woman's Education 
Association, the first organization of women, so far as the writer 
knows, directed toward the improvement of education. This associa- 
tion seems to have remained active for twenty years at least, and to 
have done important service in preparing the way for the professional 
training of young women in domestic economy. 

Meanwhile, Miss Beecher herself was still writing. In 1855 her 
Letters to tlie People on Health and Happiness was published and in 
1856 appeared a Physiology and Calistlienics for Schools and Families. 
From 1869 to 1874 Miss Beecher was again actively engaged in com- 
piling and publishing material on domestic economy. The American 
Woman 's Home by Miss Beecher and her sister, Harriet Beecher Stowe, 
appeared in i86q. It is really a revised and enlarged edition of the 
Treatise. Other titles appeared in the succeeding five years. The 
Principles of Domestic Economy, Principles of Domestic Science, and 
Miss Beecher's House-Keeper and Health-Keeper, all published in 1873, 
were, perhaps, revisions and enlargements of the materials which were 
first brought together in 1841. There is in these books and the earliet 
writings a rich field for the student of the Home Economics movement. 
We may speak somewhat in detail of two of Miss Beecher's writings: 
The essay of 1835, ^^d the Treatise on Domestic Economy, and of the 
American Woman's Education Association, particularly in their rela- 
tion to Home Economics. 



214 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

An Essay on the Education of Female Teachers (1835). 

Miss Beecher's views of woman's usual work in the home and the 
preparation needed for it come out in the essay of 1835, although 
its main point was to urge the need of training women as teachers. 
Teaching, in her mind, was to be the preface to home life; and was the 
best preparation for it, as these quotations show: 

Another object to be aimed at in regard to female education is to introduce into 
schools such a course of intellectual and moral discipline, and such attention to 
mental and personal habits, as shall have a decided influence in fitting a woman for 
her peculiar duties. What is the most important and peculiar duty of the female 
sex? It is the physical, intellectual, and moral education of children. It is the 
care of the health and the formation of the character of the future citizen of this 
great nation. 

Woman, whatever are her relations in life, is necessarily the guardian of the 
nursery , the companion of childhood, and the constant model of imitation ; 
And what demands such discretion, such energy, such patience, such tenderness, 
love, and wisdom, such perspicacity to discern, such versatility to modify, such 
efficiency to execute, such firmness to persevere, as the government and education 
of all the various characters and tempers that meet in the nursery and school room? 
Woman also is the presiding genius who must regulate all those thousand minutiae 
of domestic business, that demand habits of industry, order, neatness, punctuality, 
and constant care. And it is for such varied duties that woman is to be trained. 

Speaking of the training necessary for woman, Miss Beecher says: 

The mere committing to memory of the facts contained in books is but a small 
portion of education. Certain portions of time should be devoted to fitting a woman 
for her practical duties; such for example, as needlework. Other pursuits are 
designed for cultivation of certain mental faculties; others to cultivate taste and 
imagination; some to form the moral and religious nature; others to store the mind 
with knowledge. 

So in this early sketch of education Home Economics finds a 
place as a subject of practical instruction. 

The Treatise on Domestic Economy. 

The Treatise on Domestic Economy may be characterized as the 
first text-book in Home Economics. Books of recipes had often been 
compiled at earlier times, but here is a treatment of the household 
which distinctly sets aside the directions and recipes for a separate 
book, and endeavors to discuss the home and the management of the 
household from a theoretical point of view. One finds practical proce- 
dures in the Treatise, it is true, but all in a setting of general principles. 



1912J The Pioneer in Home Economics 215 

There is in it something of the largeness of view and breadth of under- 
standing which makes the Econimicus of Xenophon a book for all 
time. The Domestic Economy, in brief, is a classic. There is surely 
this quality in the wcU-knoTvn quotation from the preface to the 
third edition: 

The author of this work was led to attempt it, by discovering, in her extensive 
travels, the deplorable sufferings of multitudes of young wives and mothers, from 
the combined influence of poor health, poor domestics, and a defective domestic 
education. 

The measure which, more than any other, would tend to remedy this evil, would 
be to place domestic economy on an equality with the other sciences in female 
schools. This should be done because it can be properly and systematically taught 
(not practically, but as a science), as much so as political economy or moral science, 
or any other branch of stud)'; because it embraces knowledge, which will be needed 
by young women at all times and in all places; because this science can never be 
properly taught until it is made a branch of learning; and because this method will 
secure a dignity and importance in the estimation of young girls, which can never 
be accorded while they perceive their teachers and parents practically attaching 
more value to every other department of science than this. When young ladies are 
taught the construction of their own bodies, and all the causes in domestic life which 
tend to weaken the constitution; when they are taught rightly to appreciate and 
learn the most convenient and economical modes of performing all family duties, 
and of employing time and money; and when they perceive the true estimate 
accorded to these things by teachers and friends, the grand cause of this evil will 
be removed. Women will be trained to secure, as of first importance, a strong and 
healthy constitution, and all those rules of thrift and economy that will make domes- 
tic duty easy and pleasant. 

The author wishes also to make plain the fact of her fitness for the 
work which she undertakes. She mentions her qualifications as " being 
the eldest of a large family, she has, from early life, been accustomed 
to the care of children and to the performance of most domestic duties. 
It has also been her good fortune to reside, most of her life, in the fami- 
lies of e.xemplary and accomplished housekeepers, and under the super- 
vision of such friends, most of the domestic operations, detailed in this 
work, have been performed by the writer." 

One can get the best N-iew, perhaps, of the scope of the book by the 
list of chapter headings: Peculiar responsibilities of American women; 
difficulties peculiar to American women; remedies for the preceding 
difficulties; on domestic economy as a branch of study; on the care of 
health; on healthful food; on healthful drinks; on clothing; on cleanli- 
ness; on early rising; on domestic exercise; on domestic manners; on 
the preservation of a good temper in a housekeeper; on habits of sys- 



2i6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

tern and order; on giving in charity; on economy of time and expenses; 
on health of mind; on the care of domestics; on the care of infants; 
on the management of young children; on the care of the sick; on 
accidents and antidotes; on domestic amusements and social duties; 
on the construction of houses; on fires and lights; on washing; on starch- 
ing, ironing, and cleansing; on whitening, cleansing, and dyeing; on the 
care of parlors; on the care of breakfast and dining rooms; on the 
care of chambers and bedrooms; on the care of the kitchen, cellar, 
and storeroom; on sewing, cutting, and mending; on the care of 
yards and gardens; on the propagation of plants; on the cultivation 
of a fruit; miscellaneous. 

Space does not permit of course detailed quotations from the differ- 
ent sections of the work. Something of typical chapters however may 
be offered. 

The Domestic Economy opens with an argument as to woman's 
place and work in the social order. The American nation is demon- 
strating the principles of democracy to the world, and woman as 
teacher and as home-manager has a share in this work in nowise 
second to that of man. This was the splendid world- view to encourage 
and inspire the home- woman. 

Miss Beecher holds to an equality of man and woman which means 
that "in theory and practice women's interests are regarded as of 
equal value . . . though women are made subordinate in 

station In civil and political affairs, American women 

take no interest or concern; .... In education, in the selec- 
tion and support of a clergyman, in benevoletit enterprises, and in all 
matters relating to morals or manners they have a superior influence." 
The success of a democracy " depends upon the intellectual and moral 
character of the people;" and this turns upon education. The "proper 
education of a man decides the welfare of an individual; but educate 
a woman and the interests of a whole family are secured." 

We have then this view of " the peculiar responsibilities of American 
women" (Chapter I) that, in a republic, education and the home are 
the fundamental influences. But "difiiculties peculiar to American 
women" (Chapter II) arise through the social situation in a pioneer 
country, in which at the West life was especially hard upon women, 
while at the East European influences were beginning to be felt. There 
is the emulation of the wealthy along with the absence of any special 
servant class. On the other hand, American women seem to suffer 
from delicacy of constitution, through the lack of proper exercise and 



1912] The Pioneer in Home Economics 217 

physical care, and through the burden of housekeeping due to the 
lack of any particular preparation for it. 

As "remedies for these conditions" (Chapter III), Miss Beecher has 
the following suggestions: She urges that the physical and domestic 
education of daughters should occupy the principal attention of 
mothers, and less time should be given to school and more to domestic 
employments, especially in the wealthier classes; that the science and 
practice of domestic economy should be made a regular study in girls' 
schools; and finally that institutions for the training of girls should 
be suitably endowed under permanent boards of trustees, with 
proper courses of study. In regard to the last point, it may be recalled 
that Mary Lyon's campaign for an endowed institution in Massachu- 
setts had resulted in the opening of Mount Holyoke Seminary four 
years earlier, although Miss Beecher seems to share with her the credit 
for the idea that higher schools for women could succeed permanently 
only if endowed. 

The chapter on Domestic Economy as a Branch of Study is a sound 
argument for Home Economics in education, which is still fresh and 
applicable. 

There is no period in a young lady's life when she will not find such knowledge 

useful to herself and others Every young lady at the close of her school 

days, and even before they are closed, is liable to be placed in a situation where she 
will need to do, herself, or to teach others to do, all the various processes and duties 

detailed in this work As a general fact, young ladies will not be 

taught these things in any other way. Mothers will not teach them for they are 
not themselves qualified to teach a proper and complete system of domesticeconomy. 
The objection that such matters cannot be taught by books will not hold , nor, grant- 
ing that such studies may be pursued in books, may we be satisfied with the reading 

of such books rather than courses of instruction Another reason 

for introducing such a branch of study into female schools is the influence it would 
exert in leading young ladies more correctly to estimate the importance and dignity 
of domestic knowledge. It is now often the case that young ladies rather pride 
themselves on their ignorance of such subjects; and seem to imagine that it is vulgar 

and ungenteel to know how to work And let the young women of 

this nation find that domestic economy is placed in schools on equal or superior 
grounds to chemistry, philosophy, and mathematics, and they will blush to be found 
ignorant of its first principles, as much as they will to hesitate respecting the laws of 
gravity or the composition of the atmosphere. But, as matters are now conducted, 
many young ladies know how to make oxygen and hydrogen and to discuss questions 
of philosophy or political economy far better than they know how to make a bed and 
sweep a room properly; and they can "construct a diagram" in geometry with far 
more skill than they can make the simplest article of feminine dress. 



2i8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Chapters follow on the care of health, presenting a basis in physio- 
logical knowledge for proper food, drink, clothing, and personal habits. 
The chapter on clothing raises a question of today in stating that 
infant mortality is a great problem owing to mismanagement in fresh 
air, food, and clothing. In old books, one is always tempted to quote 
those things which seem out of touch with present day ideas and cus- 
toms and so Miss Beecher's chapters on Early Rising, and Preserva- 
tion of a Good Temper in a Housewife, have often been referred to. 
Her treatment of early rising is especially interesting as it brings to 
bear arguments in social economy and national wealth in support of 
the practice which one may assume was going out of fashion in her day 
with the growth of town life. The chapter on Good Temper really 
merits quotation. The importance of its general relation to the 
household situation, and the practical means of effecting it, both come 
in for due attention. The argument contains thoughts that are still 
useful. There is sound psychology in the statement that a woman, 
who has charge of a large household, 

should regard her duties as dignified, important, and difficult. The mind is so 
made, as to be elevated and cheered by a sense of far-reaching influence and useful- 
ness A housekeeper should feel that she really has great difficulties 

to meet and overcome A third method is for a woman to deliberately 

calculate on having her best arranged plans interfered with; and to be in such a 

state of preparation that the evil will not come unaware Form all 

plans and arrangements in consistency with the means at hand, and the character 
of those around .... System, economy and neatness are valuable only so 
far as they tend to promote the comfort and well-being of those affected. 

Among the most valuable discussions are the chapters on System 
and Order, and Economy of Time and Expense. They show that our 
modern ideas of efficiency in business and scientific management had 
occurred to the mind of this remarkable woman. The chapter on Giv- 
ing in Charity is in some ways a prophecy of our modern organization 
of philanthropy. An interesting section in it is Miss Beecher's refer- 
ence to household accounts, and her suggestions as to a budget. We 
should divide household accounts, she thinks, into three general heads: 
First, food, clothing, and all necessary expenses of li\dng; second, 
expenditures paid for education, books, and other intellectual advan- 
tages ; third, expenditures for benevolence and religion. She then offers 
the very suggestive rule that it is right to add to necessary expendi- 
tures a further "portion of time and means in securing the conveniences 
and adornments of taste; but this amount should never exceed what is 



1 912] The Pioneer in Home Economics 219 

spent in securing our own moral and intellectual improvement, nor 
exceed what is spent in benevolent efforts to supply the physical and 
moral wants of our fellow-men." In other words, do not let mere 
refinements in living outweigh personal improvements and culture, 
nor this again exceed social-welfare expenditures. 

It would be interesting to quote further. While we must dismiss the 
Domestic Economy with these quotations, we may recall the fact that 
it went through edition after edition both in New York and Boston, 
was adopted soon after its first appearance into the Massachusetts 
School Library, and through a generation proved itself the most useful 
of books on the household until it was supplanted by the revision of 
1869, The American Woman's Home or Principles of Domestic Science, 
and other volumes from the same author. 

American Women's Education Association. 

This first educational association of American women will be inter- 
esting to students of Home Economics, for it was, in a sense a fore- 
runner of the American Home Economics Association. Established 
about 1852, its aim was no less than the establishment of professional 
schools to be affiliated with literary institutes in which young women 
might be trained in Domestic Economy, Teaching, and Physical Train- 
ing, the "three aspects of woman's profession." Here was pro- 
posed the idea of our technical colleges for women of today. Though 
the effort did not succeed, it doubtless laid foundations on which the 
college departments of domestic science in the state colleges of the mid- 
dle West were unconsciously laid in the seventies and which con- 
tributed to all the growth of Home Economics in the last forty years. 
Miss Beecher's statement in 1855,^ in the Letters to the People on Health 
and Happiness, is as follows: 

The name of this organization is the American Woman's Educational Association- 
Its object, as stated in its constitution, is "to aid in securing to American women a 
liberal education, honorable position, and remunerative employment in their appro- 
priate profession; the distinctive profession of woman being considered as embrac- 
ing the training of the human mind, the care ot the human body in infancy and sick- 
ness, and the conser%'ation of the family state." 

The leading measure to be pursued by the association is the establishment of per- 
manent endowed institutions for women; the "endowments" being employed "to 
furnish the salaries of three superior teachers in each institution, who shall take 
charge of the three departments set forth as constituting the profession of woman." 

* See Letters to the People on Health and Happiness, by Catherine E. Beecher, New 
York, 1855. ' Also, the American Woman's Home, 1870. (.\ppendix.) 



220 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

The mode in which this efifort has been carried out has been to seek the coopera- 
tion of a large town or city in founding such an institution, by the offer, on the part 
of the association, of a library and apparatus, and a permanent endowment of twenty 
thousand dollars for the above purpose, on condition that the citizens erect a suitable 
building, and insure an income from tuition fees that will support four teachers for 
the literary departments. 

This offer was made to the citizens of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and of Dubuque, 
Iowa. The result has been the erection, in each of these cities, of a large and beauti- 
ful edifice for such an institution. In Milwaukee about two hundred pupils, and in 
Dubuque nearly one hundred, are in a course of study in the institutions thus 
established. 

It is now the object of the association to organize the three departments in these 
institutions, which are to be sustained by endowment, and which aim to qualify 
woman for her distinctive duties. These are, first, the normal department , where the 
pupils are to be trained to act as educators; next, the health department, where they 
are to be trained to be perfectly healthy themselves, and to undertake all that apper- 
tains to the care of infancy and of family health; and, lastly, the domestic depart- 
ment, where they are to be trained to understand and perform all the processes of 
domestic economy. 

In 1870, Miss Beecher wrote in the American Woman's Home that 
the American Woman's Education Association aimed to 

Establish endowed professional schools, in connection with literary institutions, 
in which woman's profession should be honored and taught as are the professions 
of men and where woman should be trained for some self-supporting business. 
From that effort several institutions of a high literary character have come into 
existence at the West, but the organization and endowment of the professional 
schools is still incomplete from many combining impediments, the chief being a 
want of appreciation of woman's profession and of the science and training which 
its high and sacred duties require. 

Especially striking was the plan outlined for "practice houses" or 
house laboratories, in connection with the domestic economy depart- 
ments in the projected professional schools. Miss Beecher describes 
the plan in the Educational Reminiscences and Suggestions of 18^4 
(pp. 158-159). It incorporates an idea which our college depart- 
ments of Home Economics are now eagerly championing as the next 
step to-day in methods of instruction, although this quotation shows 
it was incorporated in the program of the Woman's Education Asso- 
ciation half a century ago. 

The principals of the domestic department would have the charge of all relat- 
ing to the aesthetic, social, and domestic, and teach both the science and practice 
of domestic economy. They would by lectures and books instruct in the fine arts, 
and superintend classes in needle work and the cutting and fitting, cleansing, and 
mending of clothing. The supervision of the school and family building would 



1 912] The Pioneer in Home Economics 221 

belong to this department. Each of these departments would be provided with 
model dwelling houses, illustrating proper and tasteful modes of construction, 
furniture, ornamentation, warming, and ventilation. The family in each dwelling 
would consist of the principal, associate principal, and ten pupils, and they would 
do all family work. A circulating system would employ every member of the 
family one or two hours daily, in such rotation that in a given time each one will 
have been instructed in, and will perform, every operation included in family life. 
When each pupil is thus trained, she will give place to another of the scholars 
and each would remain a longer or a shorter time according to proficiency acquired 
at "school or at home." 

List of Books by Catherine E. Beecher. 

Suggestions on Education (about 1830). 

Elements of Mental and Moral Philosophy, Founded on Experience, Reason, and 
the Bible. (Anonymous.) Hartford, 1831. 

The Lyceum Arithmetic: In Three Parts, Each Adapted to Different Ages and 
Classes. Boston, 1835, pp. 248. 

An Essay on the Education of Female Teachers. Van Nostrand and Dwight, 
1835, pp. 22. 

Letters on the DiflSculties of Religion. Hartford, 1836, pp. 350. 

Essay on Slavery and Abolitionism with Reference to the Duty of American 
Females . Philadelphia :H. Perkins, 1837, pp. 151, 2ded. 

A Treatise on Domestic Economy, for the Use of Young Ladies at Home and at 
School. Boston, 1841. Illus. Plans. Revised with additions, 1842. New York 
Editions — 1842, 1843, 1847, 1849, 1852, 1854, 1867. (Copies in Boston Public 
Library.) Other editions 1845, 1847, 1855. 

Miss Beecher's Domestic Receipt Book, Designed as a Supplement to her 
Treatise on Domestic Economy. New York, 5th Edition, 1846. First edition, 
1842 (?); other editions to 1867 in Boston Public Library. 

The Duty of American Women to Their Country. New York, Harper and 
Brothers, 1845, pp. 164. (New York Public Library.) 

American Women: Will You Save Your Country? Published anonymously, 1845. 

The Evils Suffered by American Women and .\merican Children: The Causes and 
the Remedy. Harper and Brothers, 1846, pp. 36. 

Truth Stronger than Fiction. New York, 1850. 

The True Remedy for the Wrongs of Women. 1851. 

Letters to the People on Health and Happiness. New York, 1855. (New York 
Public Library.) 

Physiology and Calisthenics for Schools and Families. Harper and Brothers, 
1856, pp. 58. 

Common Sense .\pplied to Religion. 1857. 

The American Woman's Home; or Principles of Domestic Science. Catherine 
E. Beecher and Harriet Beecher Stowe. New York, i86q. 

Women's Profession as Mother and Educator with Views in Opposition to 
Women's Suffrage. 1871. 

The New Housekeeper's Manual, Embracing a Revised Edition of the American 
Woman's Home. Catherine E. Beecher and Harriet Beecher Stowe; together with 
The Handy Cook Book, by Catherine E. Beecher. New York, 1873, Illus. 



222 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Principles of Domestic Economy. By Catherine E. Beecher and Harriet Beecher 
Stowe. New York, 1873. 

Principles of Domestic Science as Applied to the Duties and Pleasures of Home. 
New York, 1873, pp. 380. (Copy in New York State Library.) 

Miss Beecher's Housekeeper and Healthkeeper: Containing 500 Recipes for 
Economical and Healthful Cookery. New York, 1873. Also, 1874, pp. 482. (Bos- 
ton Public Library). Also published in England. 

Educational Reminiscences and Suggestions. New York: J. B. Ford and Com- 
pany, 1874, pp. 276. (New York Public Library.) 

EDUCATIONAL SUGGESTIONS FROM 
EUROPEAN LIFE. 

Edith Greer. 

Down the ages have come facts and acts informing to all, also power 
humanly forming. Europe, in an older setting that has endured for 
centuries, impresses the accomplishment of time more strikingly than 
do newer environments. Yet the transmigration of human life from 
other ages and now for America from other nations, is of deep human 
significance. It teems with educational opportunities, invigorating, 
suggestive. 

The wealth of the past rests not alone in far-famed but distant 
achievements. It affects somewhat directly the humanity at home in 
foreign lands. This is disclosed there by those that have followed in 
time and place. The minor arts are carried in people rather than 
rest simply in things. Those arts of former days in union with the 
productive power of earlier peoples, flourish where they arose, often 
only as incidents in living when no longer living — occupations, the 
experience in living too rooted as it is, in the past but passing, as it 
has, into fineness of skill in many European countries, lies open to 
view to those whom life teaches. 

America sees in incoming peoples problems of nation-construction 
and possibilities of industrial production. " Whose hands if not ours," 
a foreigner has asked, "are doing the inevitable manual work in the 
making of America as it now presses forward in material construction, 
transportation, and industrial productivity?" But America does not 
avail itself of the accomplishments preserved in the foreigners in her 
midst nor of the training they have brought which is so fraught with 
rich resource. 

Every child in Europe knits and crochets as do also the working 
women in their idle hours. All sing and with a musical expressive- 



1912] Educational Suggestions from Europe 223 

ness unreali2ed save by peoples of inherited musical sensibility. And 
who in Europe can be found that cannot cook in superior fashion? 
Those are but the accomplishments of simple necessary human living 
through ages of daily life at home. 

Nor are these all the powers that come. The fineness of ages of 
skilled handicraft arrives unseen in the unrecognized silversmith of 
appreciative power and love for the work left, not to be readily refound. 
There comes, too, the worker in coarser materials who fashions beauty 
into simple, useful things that if seen would be sincerely desired. 

And is it the wealth of chivalrous tradition which gives the dignity 
and gentle courtesy that seems to have been bred through centuries of 
customs suited to peace-giving climes? This rests now as a gift with 
many to whom fortune seems to have denied much else but not all. 
A clear mental directness in exigencies of hampered intercourse ever and 
anon discloses a training of school or life which in itself challenges 
interest and promises power but often shortly is not to be seen. 

Those that are even looked after, are not, in the haste and perplexity 
over concerns of daily-living, invariably looked at to see what they 
have in accomplishment, what they are in training, and what they 
can do through transmitted ability or impress of earlier environment, 
which America as yet cannot. America often perhaps does not know 
that what is brought, exists. Those that bring much are frequently 
not able unreenforced to initiate their power, to adapt it and use it 
purposefully under changed conditions of life which disguise even the 
demand there may be for such products or services. Expression thus 
denied them, they may even bury their inherited strength, regarding 
it unwelcome because unwelcomed. Not a few that might so enrich 
life and add charm to living, turn to unskilled labor as it offers, be- 
cause they must sustain life. 

A sign of awakening is seen in the civic vocational bureaus that are 
now arising to care for the person not less than the product, and begin- 
ning to study human possibilities on the background of economic 
problems. Moulding life to use all the human powers that are, rests 
with education. 

European employment of age in positions of dignity and responsi- 
bility, also of women in governing positions with final authority where 
their experience has qualified them for intelligent service, and the 
frictionless, flawless corporate action of a group of workers, as in the 
service of a house as a whole, where everything is seen and what is 
seen, is done — illustrate human possibilities that American democracy 
has yet to realize. 



2 24 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The general tendency here, of somewhat unintelligent overvaluation 
of interested youth, is in danger of resulting in formless activity in the 
ser\ice of no clearly conceived lofty purposes. This, if continued, can 
but lead, it is believed, to a spoliation of youth which wall foster imma- 
ture unfitness for progressive active responsibility and deplete the ranks 
of those that should grow wise through the experience that brings 
mature judgment with mature years. 

Youth has promise, but this unfulfilled, it bears fruit in disap- 
pointment. One sees childhood with its charm pass with regret, but 
were it not to pass the regret could but deepen. Growth is the funda- 
mental fact of life and the diflference that distinguishes it from all 
else. This, nations attest which do not suffer arrested development 
but pass to mature age, of which youth is but the beginning, more than 
the poets know. Age lost from Hfe, what is not gone? The fineness 
of youth is its promise, energy, strength. The fineness of maturity 
is achie\dng — poise, wisdom. It is not the age that is behind; it is 
rather the age that is before youth which should direct youth in its 
effort. It is the ideal that draws onward. The classic but impresses 
what should not be lost in the forward movement. 

Exhausting the worker in early maturity through overmechanical 
labor, leaving youth undeveloped through overvaluation, overlooking 
or underseeking the gifts and resources there are, but paves the way 
for human destitution. Only constructive education, in union with 
humanized occupation, can avert this. 

In the older civilizations, there is more serenity and peace in life as 
it is lived. There is also appearance of more harmony in domestic and 
industrial life between belief as expressed and practice as seen, what- 
ever the undercurrents of unrest or suppressed struggle. More of the 
life of the person is in the living, the daily human li\dng and the occu- 
pational living. Everj^'thing is not as it is because trade requires that 
it be. Not infrequently the worker says what he regards the worth of 
his work. His word stands, though beside his product may stand that 
of a companion-worker valued far otherwise. The one that wishes the 
work of both pays in accord with the ideas of each. Is that independ- 
ence in industry? It was found in union with excellence of work- 
manship. The small shop with products of its own production, now 
re-arising in America, one notes with enquiring interest, are foreign in 
origin. 

Here more conflicting aims and efforts stir life and not without some- 
what confusing liAdng. America is machine clothed and is becoming 



1912] Educational Suggestions from Europe 225 

increasingly factorj'-fed. On the one hand she sits on prison-contract 
chairs in syndicate built apartments, agent-managed, and on the other 
is environing her life with nature again as a background, creative ex- 
pressiveness the builder of home, and appreciative, effective intelligence, 
enlisted in the management of living as it afiects human life. Both 
are. Education will largely determine what is to be. 

High inventive capacity none deny to America. But its ingenuity 
is more commonly used to attract attention commercially than with 
real himian purpose. In Europe interest seems to center in human 
service. Europe's doors open, its windows close, its locks turn, its 
shutters latch, its elevators are open and serviceable. The floors of 
Switzerland and France reflect their housekeeping ideals. The win- 
dows of Holland gleam everywhere within its borders on all days and 
in all weathers. Here there is the -ivill to do; there the will to do well. 
Interest in work, self-respect in one's occupation, and good results 
from activity are to be commonly obser\'ed everywhere even when the 
day is divided between cleaning the floors and the silver. What is 
to be done, is to be well done, housekeeping attests. 

Cookery in Europe is better than ours in general combination and 
variety, also in service. More interest and more intelligence as to 
food is expressed in its preparation and use. Gardens at hand give 
freshness to food and naturalness that is lost when all seasons appear 
alike in production. Everything, from every^'here at all times, prom- 
ises and provides for variety but also permits continuous close adher- 
ence to restricted taste that blunts appetite. It also noticeably results 
in the practice of selecting, where it can always be found, what mini- 
mizes preparation regardless of the dietetic result; if not health-effect, 
Europe is in practical living nearer to Nature and less apparently 
fearful of the effort that liv-ing requires everywhere of someone. 

All Europe also sews well. It conceives clearly of basic construction 
and is skilled in technique. As it fashions its garments it sees them as 
art in attire. It is to those garments that are permanent in ser\dce 
that there clings much of the handwork of the past, rich in design 
expressive of tradition and wrought with hand-cunning too little uti- 
lized, if not lost. To the foreigner, the embroidered costume is un- 
seen and may become unvalued because unused. That it has passed 
from the daily wear of those that toil to the adornment of those that 
do not, is not fully realized, even if known. 

It is the museums, holding what was, which display the things of 
the life known in other lands. And an impressive lesson it is for the 



226 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

American to see the treasure houses that store past and passing beauty, 
thronged on holidays, or fully to appreciate its living significance to 
those that, though aliens to the land, are wonted to the environment 
of beauty; as what foreigner is not? 

Italy brings to whatever it does, beauty and perfection of workman- 
ship. Its work is deeply informing and singularly satisfying. That of 
France is good but has not the unswerving practical faithfulness to 
ideals unaffected by commerce which Itgjy manifests. The wonder 
of environment and warmth of human life makes Italy a land of inspira- 
tion. Voltaire praising France said, "But none can claim to excel 
Italy, she has all kinds of gifts to the degree of genius." One realizes 
with Henry James that "Italy is like an old book; the charm is in the 
style." It is a land in which by "a noble disregard of the cost of 
material in the hands of artists, palaces, courts and cities have been 
created which disclose what can be." Basements and backyards take 
on new forms in the mind that Italy has equipped to see possibilities. 
These become two opportunities for beauty to express itself in home 
and civic life, rather than necessary blights to sight and imagination. 

Switzerland serves its 300,000 annual tourist-guests as only Swiss 
management can and is not disturbed in its domestic or national life. 
It works with the free play of intelligence which knows no drudgery. 

The National Educational Exhibit installed at Berne is, in many 
respects, a unique protrayal of the educational interests of the nation, 
the practical phases of its life, such as sewing that living requires be 
done. This has an integral relation to its education. The pupil- 
products bear witness to the hand-skill of the nation. Switzerland 
carries such training with that of the regular school instead of segre- 
gating it in special schools as Europe generally does. 

The Swiss have unsurpassed ability to train. The current teaching 
and supervising of servants in their service may be observed without 
anxiety as to the outcome. The evolution of a waitress, the prepara- 
tion of a gardener, are characterized by thorough grasp of the work as 
a whole, mental precision in reaction, kindliness in attitude. 

Swiss impress upon international life is more real than is always 
evident. It does more that is significant to others than care for them 
as they pass its door. Much of the silk machinery of the world is 
made there and more and more lovely silk than one is aware, unless 
seen there. Many of the rarely beautiful semi-precious stones are 
finding their way into simple, charming form in Swss hands and pass- 
ing to a graceful use in costume and minor decoration. The watch- 



1912] Educational Suggestions from Europe 227 

maker's museum in Geneva displays a craft-power not lost nor for- 
gotten nor unused by the S\\ass of today. Their interest in science 
as it affects life in union with their trained industry and quiet energy of 
life, with its incorporation of living in education, promises the Swiss' 
an educational effectiveness that springs from intelligent interest in 
life and returns to direct living progressively. 

Throughout Europe special schools are arising to train very practi- 
cally for commercial, industrial, domestic life. Their activities and 
methods are practical but their curricula are not so denuded as to 
restrict signally the human development of the pupil. They include 
the general work of the traditional school integrated with the practical 
though apart from their regular school. Their study of language is 
sometimes even more elastic, as it too is regarded as a probable part of 
the working equipment required in any occupation that may carry 
the worker into the current of the heterogeneous life of Europe. 

The shops of Italy, seasonal exhibits, and fairs place on sale the hand- 
work of such schools and of the training centers that afford the older 
women the opportunity to work as their time permits. The work and 
the workers may be seen and known together. Wea\dng, embroidery, 
lace, sewing in all forms, and basketry, are the usual products. These 
special schools of Italy in Rome, Florence, and Venice are interestingly 
informing and very accessible simply upon request at the school. 
The regular schools, however, require all formality. 

Children, wherever they are and whoever they are, show much about 
the life whatever it is. The appreciation of nature of the Swiss child 
and its singing accompaniment of its outdoor living; the absorbed 
occupation of the serious, charming Italian child; the alert facility 
and astonishing obedience of the French child; indicate suggestively 
the home and school life of the several nations. 

The European's comment that Americans are too intelligent to travel 
as they do, expresses a truth that needs practical consideration. One 
country seen at all thoughtfully, essentially opens others to \aew more 
quickly. If a teacher can travel but six weeks and cannot resist 
Europe as a whole, then four weeks somewhere and two everywhere, 
will be more constructive in effect than hurried travel for six. It 
will even be more generally informing. 

Europe presents human life under varied forms that have been 
brought into interesting contrast through ages of close association yet 
segregated national living. Knowing life anywhere requires direct 
intercourse for human effect from it. Passing into touch with a people 



228 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

and not simply through a country, anyone must ensure who would 
learn of life as it expresses itself in living. 

The esthetic achievements of the ages have their value for humanity 
in its restful enjoyment of them, through which alone its appreciation 
grows. Though art must be seen to be realized, to see it, to have seen 
it, may add to one's information but is not essentially esthetic culture. 
Deepening pleasure in the presence of the beautiful alone gives this. 

One hears and knows that America is not inartistic. Yet it cannot 
claim such an impress of beauty as not to be able to form itself, in 
many respects, with utter disregard of the fineness Europe has long 
presented to its view. An imposing civic square, ennobling and peace- 
giving to life as it moves through active days, is nowhere lacking save 
here. This is not always to be but one cannot but wonder how it 
came to be, since there has been no lack of expenditure here and no 
lack of illustration elsewhere. Responsive sensitiveness to beauty 
makes beauty an essential of national life, each nation in turn attests. 
When one builds at all he is forming the environment of all. Seeing 
with the leisure to enjoy, impresses the potency of the enjoyment and 
refines sensibilities that hurried passing but lays waste. 

All are aware, that seeing all, anywhere, comes only through respon- 
sible living association, whereas travel is in essence irresponsible pass- 
ing. But it has a service in being such. It enables one to overlook 
what in living might be overfelt. Alien problems and alien achieve- 
ments light life differently. How life is lived; what is valued by 
others in living that differs, and the difference in solution of like life- 
problems, contribute suggestively to such education as would rest 
its purpose in effective living and appreciative human development 
through growth in intelligence. 

Schools suited to a like accomplishment under different conditions 
and for differing social ideals of human advance are opportunities for 
study, rather copies for execution, if education and li\dng are to have 
an interworking association, and intelligence and information not be 
considered apart from humanity in its progress in human living, where 
and when it is living. 

America has known a lower school of German origin but claimed to 
be of universal application. However it has valued its gifts, it has 
struggled hard to free itself from being held fast in an environment of 
the past. Now an Italian school comes to view for little children. 
Will it be the loveliest of human environments, a court with reposeful 



1912] Educational Suggestions from Europe 229. 

walls and playing fountain which will be brought into American 
Schools and life from it? 

And for how many centuries has America known a Latin High school, 
to abandon it for what? Is it to be for a German adjustment to German 
industrial life and social conditions? Is America undergoing a com- 
plete educational revolution and from being German below and Latin 
above is to be Italian below and German above? Is America's inter- 
mediate school alone to be American? It is so in origin. It aims to 
be so in purpose. In it are currently 98 per cent of its children. What 
America's life will be, is there largely decided. What its living may 
become, can there be determined. Will it be human, artistic, scien- 
tific, intelligently effective throughout, that all humanity may be self- 
helpful and self-governed and self-cultivated? 



THE ELEMENTARY WORK IN PREPARATION OF 
FOOD IN COLLEGE CLASSES. 

The following is a partial report of the round table on elementary 
work in preparation of food in college classes, which constituted a 
part of the program of the meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association held in Washington, December 27-30, 191 1. Owing to the 
illness of the original leader, Miss Abby L. Marlatt of the University 
of Wisconsin, Miss Isabel Bevier presided. She offered an explana- 
tion of the purpose of this round table, in part as follows: 

A good many phases of work in Home Economics have not yet been "tried 
out." Considerable work has been done with food, less with clothing and dietetics. 
Some of us have done it in one way and some in another. So it has seemed worth 
while to consider in these two round tables on the science and art phases of Home 
Economics various methods that are in actual use by teachers. The particular 
question to be answered in this round table is, "What seems to you the best 
way to teach college women, who have had no previous school work with food, 
to cook?" It is understood that the discussion is limited to elementary work 
with food and that it may be designated in the college curriculum as laboratory 
work, experimental cookery, or preparation of food, but it is also understood that 
the world calls it cooking. 

The first paper, which follows, w^as presented by Miss May B. 

Van Arsdale of Teachers College. 

WORK IN TEACHERS COLLEGE CLASSES. 
May B. Van Arsdale. 

Since this paper embodies the conclusions drawn from several dis- 
cussions among the faculty of the department of foods and cookery, 
Teachers College, I take pleasure in presenting it for the department. 

In preparing the paper it has been assumed that this discussion was 
not intended to take the form of a plea for the introduction of courses 
in food preparation into colleges where such courses do not now form 
a part of the curriculum, but is intended to present the specific method 
now employed in certain institutions already giving courses in practical 
cookery. 

230 



1912] Food Preparation in College Classes 231 

So much for the meaning of the term "college classes" in our title. 
It will be well also for us to consider whether we are in agreement 
regarding the meaning of the term "elementary food preparation." 

We understand the term "elementary" work to cover all courses 
which aim to develop a knowledge of the general underlying principles 
of cooking various food materials. By advanced work is not here 
meant simply the making of the more elaborate dishes where skill and 
an artistic result are the chief ends sought, neither do we refer to an 
investigation of certain problems which may be classed as research 
work. By advanced as distinguished from elementary work we mean 
all such courses as are formulated with a specialized end in view on the 
basis of a knowledge of the general principles of cookery — such as 
courses in home and invalid cookery, large quantity cookery for diifer- 
ent types of institutions, cookery for infants and children, camp cook- 
ery, etc., all of which courses may be more effectively accomplished on 
the basis of the work in general principles. 

Teachers College cannot be said to have any one method for teach- 
ing this elementary food preparation. The presentation of the sub- 
ject matter is necessarily more or less adapted to the needs of the 
various types of students. In general, however, the method may be 
stated thus: The course called Household Arts 30 — Elementary 
Food Preparation — is intended to introduce the student to a formal 
study of food preparation by systematizing the knowledge of cookery 
already possessed by the student — to develop reasons for processes 
already familiar, such reasons being drawn from practical experience 
and from courses in chemistry and in foods being pursued at the same 
time with the work in cookery. The fundamental principles are devel- 
oped by a study of general proportions in combining food materials 
as well as from the study of a specific recipe in the endeavor to estab- 
lish a rational basis for the later use of the more formal recipe in future 
work. 

The next course makes the connection between the "reason why" 
and the actual cooking process more directly, being based upon the 
performance of experiments in physical science along with the study 
of a variety of recipes for the same product. The results of the vari- 
ous recipes are compared, the reasons for variations discussed in the 
light of experiments performed either in the cookery laboratory or in 
other courses being pursued at the same time, to discover the essen- 
tials and the non-essentials, the relative economy, or the comparative 
palatability. 



232 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

In the more advanced work — that is, in the courses in home and in- 
stitutional cookery, demonstration cookery, catering, and other courses 
with a more specialized aim in view, skill in combining materials and 
the production of a good result are the chief aims. Not too many 
failures are sacrificed to experimentation in this work, for the ability 
to adapt the knowledge already gained to the specific end sought is the 
avowed aim of this later work. 

Perhaps all of the above may be best summed up in a statement 
volunteered by a professor outside the department in cookery whose 
familiarity with the work in cookery is gained chiefly through the 
students who pursue sequent courses under him. He says: 

Cookery is taught at Teachers College by the same general method whichhas been 
found best in the teaching of analytical or experimental chemistry. The student 
is given directions which are made as suggestive as possible to provoke thought and 
to encourage individual experimentation, but which at the same time are sufficiently 
definite to prevent blind floundering and useless waste of time. " Skill and a good 
product" are sought (just as skill and an accurate result are sought in quantitative 
analysis) but not at the expense of a knowledge of the "reason why." 

But any method of presentation fails to yield the very best results 
in practical cookery if the student is hampered through all her work 
by a deficiency in the technique of the subject ; or if she has to mark 
time, as it were, in the cookery process to obtain this necessary knowl- 
edge. She is like a builder, endeavoring to construct a house before 
he is skilled in the use of the implements with which he builds. 

We feel that in the future a course in the technology of the subject 
will be a desirable introduction to all work in practical cookery. Such 
a course will aim to produce skill in the mechanics of cookery, to famil- 
iarize the student with the general principles of science underlying the 
various processes, and to acquaint her with various ty^es of stoves and 
fuels by a quantitative study of them. Such a course will aim to 
present to the students various mechanical devices used in the subject 
and to teach the adaptability of utensils to specific uses. It will lay 
special stress on the study of weights and measures (as well as on weights 
of measures) and thermometry. It will also aim to dignify the me- 
chanics of the cookery processes like dish-washing and scouring. It 
will aim to acquaint the student with the appearance of food as pur- 
chased while emphasizing the economic aspect. We believe that a 
student thus equipped will be better able to concentrate on the food 
preparation itself when she takes up the practical cookery instead of 
being distracted by the mechanics of the subject, so that all along the 



1912] Food Preparation in College Classes 233 

line better results may be yielded whether the student is to be a house- 
keeper, a teacher, or a specialist in any field. 

For, after all, we are all striving to produce effective individuals 
and in so far as the work in elementary food preparation or in any other 
subject fails to be of advantage to the individual as an indi\ddual it 
fails to produce an efficient housekeeper or teacher. 

Then followed a paper by Miss Catharine Mulligan of the University 
of Tennessee. 

WORK IN THE UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE. 
Catharine A. Mulligan. 

The problem for the teacher in the South to solve is the same that 
meets the teachers in other parts of the coimtry, but there are circum- 
stances that make her problem a little bit different from the others. 

Our grandmothers were familiar with all the details of household 
management; they trained any number of servants to perform the 
immense amount of work necessary to feed, clothe, and keep well and 
in working trim the large families in the "big house" and the " quarters," 
as well. These servants — our black Mammies and Uncle Romeos — 
are for the most part gone, and we are dealing in the South with 
a servant problem — not the immigrant, but a shifting, shiftless genera- 
tion of children of a people who thought that freedom from slavery 
meant freedom from work, and whom educational leaders are training 
to work for themselves and not for the white people. 

Now, since the household tasks have always been performed by 
negroes, the Home Economics teacher had at first to interest the school 
boards and the students in subjects entirely new to their thought and 
practice. There are no richly endowed colleges in the South, except 
a few negro schools, and school boards have to make a little go a long 
way. So, until recently, only normal and industrial schools have made 
room for domestic science and art, but now many high schools and 
colleges, and even a second university — Texas — has joined Tennessee 
in offering Home Economics courses for its women students. 

With this demand, southern women have begun to prepare them- 
selves to teach household science in our own part of the country, where 
we use buttermilk and soda to lighten our biscuit, where we eat gravy 
on our rice and hominy, and where we make corn-bread of white corn 
meal and without sugar. 



234 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The men at the University of Tennessee are required to take mili- 
tary drill during their first two years in college, and the women pre- 
pare for peace by filling those hours of their schedules with Home 
Economics — sewing in the Freshman year, and a beginner's course in 
cookery in the Sophomore year, where the chemistry begins. Those 
who wish may choose a second year of cookery from the open electives 
in the Junior year, and the Seniors may elect a term's work in house 
construction and household management, and a term in review of the 
whole subject of Home Economics, with reference to teaching it in 
high schools. We are hoping for the opportunity to do practice teach- 
ing under the supervision of the department of education. 

Though the work was originally planned for girls who elect the 
courses as a part of their training for home life, yet students come to 
us in increasing numbers who expect to teach in high schools, in moun- 
tain mission schools, in orphanages, in settlements, in factory towns 
among mill operatives. In some of these places the position means 
being housekeeper and teacher both, and the only classes are groups of 
girls who have to prepare the three meals a day for the whole school. 

The department at the university consists of two teachers and one 
student assistant, so the needs of all these students must be met in a 
very few classes. These classes meet for two laboratory periods and 
one recitation each week. They work from typewritten directions, 
which we add to and make changes in each year as conditions change. 
It seems a waste of time and material, too, for students to work with- 
out some guide, nor do they get any real practice from such small 
quantities as are printed in a recently published school text-book, 
where one tablespoonful of flour is the amount used in a cake. 

Snyder's Human Foods is the text-book for our sophomores, and 
they begin with the practical work in cookery of starch — the cereals 
rice and hominy being the dishes most often found on our Southern 
menus. Usually the students work in groups of two, and three differ- 
ent recipes are prepared by the class of 14 or 16, so we have several 
duplicates of each recipe — quite enough to see that originaUty in the 
finished recipe is attained, even wdth the directions before the class. 

The Sophomores progress from cereals to quick breads; then sugar; 
eggs, oysters, etc.; deep fat frying; with vegetables for their last spring 
work. Some study of serving of meals is made, and a simple meal 
served, cost estimated, and food value calculated by the loo-calorie 
portion table. 

The Juniors use Sherman's Chemistry of Food as their text-book, 



1912] Food Preparation in College Classes 235 

together with numerous references to other books, and to government 
publications. They count the cost of each lesson in materials used, 
time consumed, and gas used. Just now they are aiming to become 
more efficient by saving steps and motions, by cooperation in group' 
work, and by planning ahead. 

These classes began their practical work last fall with canning and 
preser\'ing. Consulting their grocers, they found what fruits and 
vegetables they could profitably put up in the home and what would be 
economical to buy already canned. They judged their bread by the 
score card Miss Bevier has printed in her text-book. The meat les- 
sons come next, and they are keenly interested in paper bag cookery, 
having experimented these last few days with steak pan-broiled, broiled 
under the flame, and cooked in the paper bags. As these Juniors meet 
me for the two hours preceding lunch, they will, after mid-term exami- 
nations, serve lunch for four persons, working in groups of two, till all 
have prepared a meal, calculating cost in time and materials, and esti- 
mating the nutritive value. 

With the few hours at our disposal, there is yet in our colleges time 
for only a general course in Home Economics, lea\ang to the schools 
more heavily endowed the carrying on of research work along particu- 
lar lines. 

So far our students at the university have not stopped with the four 
years' work given there, but are continuing their studies in both sum- 
mer and winter sessions and taking work at Columbia, at Simmons, and 
at other places as well. 

The next paper was by Mrs. Mary Pierce Van Zile of the Kansas 
Agricultural College. 

ELEMENTARY COOKERY. 
Mary P. Van Zile. 

At the present time relatively few students who are entering our 
colleges have had a chance to study cookery, consequently it is of 
importance that they have the opportunity of beginning this subject 
in college. It is therefore desirable for college courses in Home Eco- 
nomics to include a course in elementary cookery for all students who 
have not had the advantage of such training in secondary schools. 
For those who have had such training, a somewhat different method of 
procedure is necessary, and so long as the training of the students who 



236 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

enter college is so widely different, the problem of adjusting the college 
work to suit the needs of the individual is not easy to solve. It neces- 
sitates offering courses for those who desire to begin the subject, and 
at the same time to offer suitable courses for those who had such train- 
ing in the secondar}^ schools. In this paper it is my purpose to outline 
the method and scope of the course for the student who is the beginner. 

The course in elementary cookery should be a part of the Freshman 
year's work. The student enters college and enrolls in the Home 
Economics course expecting to have courses in cookery and oftentimes 
in sewing. If these are not offered her, but she is assigned to chemistry, 
physics, etc., she becomes discouraged. The elementary cookery 
course may be the means of holding her interest until such time as she 
learns to recognize in the science courses the necessary tools in the 
accomplishment of some definite purpose. I would by all means give 
her the science, but while she is taking it I would also offer the elemen- 
tary course in cookery. 

Many educators believe that the teaching of science can best be 
accomplished by presenting the subject in a concrete form and then 
making the analysis afterward. The elementary cookery course offers 
opportunity for such a development of the subject. The student's 
interest may be aroused in the cooking lesson — the understanding 
of the underlying principles will follow. If properly presented, the 
cooking lessons are the best preparation for the study of chemistry, 
of physics, or of botany, for the student very soon learns that these 
subjects are vitally connected with the real things of life. This course 
in colleges should take into consideration the maturity and broader 
general knowledge of the college student and therefore should be differ- 
ent from the high school course. The student should be required to 
proceed more rapidly, and to do things more thoroughly and intelli- 
gently. 

Occasionally the argument is met that the college should not be 
required to teach the art of either cooking or sewing — that these things 
should be taught in the secondary schools. In theory the plan may 
be good, but in practice it is all wrong, for very few of the students who 
enter college will have had the practice. It is quite absurd to graduate 
a young woman from a Home Economics course who is not master of 
all the details of cooking. Therefore I believe the elementary course 
should give ample opportunity for the student to become familiar with 
cooking as an art. I would not, however, minimize the importance of 
good sound theoretical training. It is quite as necessary to develop 



igi2] Food Preparation in College Classes 237 

keen and accurate analysis of ever)- subject considered, and the whys 
and wherefores should be made an important part of every lesson. It 
is the combination of the doing and the knowing that gives the ideal 
course. 

The length of such a course must be determined by factors which are 
so local in character as to make it impracticable to discuss it at length 
here. It may be said that in general where the Home Economics 
work is offered, the course as a whole is based upon a certain division 
of the different phases of work — for example, approximately one-third 
of the student's time is given to the fundamental science work; one- 
third to the so-called cultural studies, English, history, German, French, 
etc. ; and the remaining one-third to the technical work of the course. 
This technical work must include the sewing, cookery, and such draw- 
ing courses as are fundamental to the art and design courses which 
come later. At best the time that can be given to the elementary 
cookery course is limited. I have found that twenty-four lessons of 
two periods of sixty minutes each make a satisfactory course. 

Whatever the length of time allowed, it is imperative that the course 
be well planned and logically developed. There is a justifiable differ- 
ence of opinion as to the best order of development of the subject, but 
whatever the particular order of development adopted, it is imperative 
that every teacher be able to justify her method of procedure. The 
time is past when any course in cookery that is not carefully planned 
and logically developed can become a permanent factor in any college 
curriculum. 

In teaching these elementary courses the teacher must be careful to 
remember the limitations and experiences of her pupils. For often 
the senior university vie^^-point is the one the teacher has and as a 
result she fails as a teacher of the elementary courses. It requires 
skill to adapt her knowledge and to present it in a simple way. The 
teaching must be scientific — it must give knowledge of principles of 
cooker>' — it must inspire interest — and yet with all it must be so sim- 
ple that every student will fully comprehend. 

A few of the results to be attained by the elementary cookery course 
may be summarized as follows: 

(i) It encourages the idea that there is something worth while in 
performance of the daily tasks of life. 

(2) It furnishes an incentive for good work in other subjects of the 
curriculum. 

(3) It gives excellent training in construction work. 



238 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

(4) It gives knowledge of elementary science and lays foundations 
for more exhaustive scientific studies. 

(5) It is a fitting introduction to the more advanced food courses. 

Miss Jenny H. Snow, University of Chicago, spoke in part as follows: 

I will try to give you a little idea of what we as a department stand 
for. The study of food and its preparation go along hand in hand. 
There are three lectures and two laboratory periods a week. The 
object of the work is to make the girls as independent as possible, not 
only through a knowledge of the materials they are handling and of 
the effect of heat upon them, but of proportions and methods of com- 
bination that they have worked out as far as possible by experiments. 
This is the general line of work. The science work that has a direct 
bearing on the preparation of the food itself precedes the preparation 
of that food. The time devoted to this elementary work is two quar- 
ters of twelve weeks each. These courses are supposed to give the 
girls a general knowledge of all the elementary food preparation. 

President Bevier: Does this mean that these girls have never 
had work before, or do they come to you from the high school? 

Miss Snow: Most of them have not had work in the high school 
but many have had practical household experience. Next year we 
are planning a course that will take less time for the girls who have had 
some work in our own and other high schools. 

Miss Agnes Hunt, Michigan Agricultural College, was asked to give 
her viewpoint and responded as follows: 

The conditions that we have in Michigan are different, of course, 
from those in Illinois. We have for example, a group known as sub- 
freshmen, as do, I think a good many other institutions. In this course 
we try to present elements of cooking, pure and simple, and the prac- 
tical handling of utensils and of food materials. All of our girls, how- 
ever, do not come as sub-freshmen, and the sub-freshman class is 
gradually diminishing. We hope sometime to abolish it entirely, but 
at present we have these conditions to meet. 

The college work in cooking comes in the Freshman and Sophomore 
years, and we change our point of \'iew entirely from that in the sub- 
freshmen year. We take certain principles which we have borrowed 
from chemistry, from physics, from bacteriology, and by following 
certain recipes work out these principles. We start in with measure- 
ments and have more or less definite work on heat in one or two lessons 



1912] Food Preparation in College Classes 239 

in order to determine something of the use of the thermometer. Then 
we take water as a carrier of flavors, later milk, follo\\ang up with pro- 
tein, taking milk as a sample form, then eggs and meat, and later 
carbohydrates. 

You see our system of taking up food elements varies from some of 
the other work which has been presented here. I recall very vividly 
one of Dean Kinley's statements on what he called the "effective util- 
ity of foods." This he divided into four headings. Selection and 
preparation of foods was one of the factors which made up the absolute 
effective utility of foods. The ne.\t was the physiological value of 
food, that is its heat and energy giving value; the next its psychological 
value; and the last its aesthetic value. So we have others besides 
these purely scientific principles which we might have embodied in the 
selection and preparation and the physiological point of view; we have 
also tried to carry in mind aesthetic considerations. This seems a large 
field of work to cover in a few hours, but I think if one has these points 
in mind one can bring them out very effectively. 

The plan for the elementary work in Pratt Institute was presented 
by Miss Ruth Atwater, as follows: 

Our aim in the Junior cookery of which I am to speak particularly 
is to give the foundation material for the general cookery, both in 
theory and in practice. The time allowed is five periods a week, two 
laboratory periods of ninety minutes' duration, and one lecture period 
of forty-five minutes' duration. In the spring term the time is ex- 
tended; it includes one laboratory class of four periods consecutively 
beside the ninety-minute laboratory class and the lecture. This 
extension of time is given to allow the students to put into practice 
during the winter term their work in serving. 

In addition to the work in cookery there is a course in marketing and 
theoretical serving which occupies two periods a week. Then in the 
extension of time in the spring term the student is given an oppor- 
tunity to prepare food in large quantities, and type meals are served 
for twenty people. We find that this is a great advantage to the stu- 
dents. They get experience in group work and in large-quantity 
cooking which develops judgment, facility in handling material, and 
adaptability under varying conditions. This we strive very earnestly 
to do in this first year's work. 

Particular emphasis is placed in the Junior work on the theoretical 
side of the subject, and to this end the chemistry, which is advanced 



240 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

inorganic, lends very valuable aid. In the chemical laboratory the 
students examine various baking powders, carbohydrates with regard 
to their property of hydrolysis, and later in the year they test foods 
for their inorganic adulterations. 

There is in the Junior cookery no experimental cookery as such. 
That is, the students have no undirected research work; all of their 
experimental work is directed, and of course serves to illustrate the 
general principles. We examine the food principles with regard to 
their composition, food value, and digestibility; we take up the subject 
of digestion carefully, and of course consideration is given to that in 
the physiological laboratory as well. We consider the effects of heat 
and the methods of application. We also consider the effects of cold, 
both above and below the freezing point, so that we teach the work in 
physics in a very practical way. 

As a result of our Junior training, we wish to find developed in the 
student a knowledge of the underlying physical and chemical proper- 
ties of food, including a careful study of the food principles from both 
a theoretical and applied standpoint. Also we consider the efiect of 
various enzym and bacterial actions, both singly and in combination. 
We further wish to find the students able to handle food materials, 
drawing upon their general knowledge of underlying principles and 
general properties which they themselves have evolved from the vari- 
ous laboratory exercises throughout the year. 

We hope to enter our students in their second year's work with 
minds trained along scientific lines, for we lay open to them the path 
of independent work through some undirected research work in vari- 
ous subjects, and we also give them directed reference work with regard 
to government publications and the standard authorities. Then we 
hope as well to find at the completion of this first year's work in general 
cookery facility in handling materials developed together with a mind 
trained to think independently and along scientific lines. 

The plan for the advanced work in Pratt Institute was presented by 
Miss Jessie A. Long. Miss Be\der then read a statement giving the 
aim and scope of the elementary work as carried on in the University 
of Illinois: 

The purpose of the course in selection and preparation of food offered 
in the University of Illinois is to give the student a fundamental grasp 
of two phases of the food problem. It is recognized that most of the 
interest in food centers about the finished product, the perfectly cooked 



1912] Food Preparation in College Classes 241 

and well flavored dish, but something more than technique and taste 
must be embodied in any work before it is deserving of the attention 
of university students. Therefore the sciences are put imder tribute 
in so far as the working of any of their laws is to be demonstrated as 
operating in the success (or failure) of the work vdlh. food. 

Take for example the simple law of diffusion of heat, i.e., the tend- 
ency of heat to expend its energy in all directions. Once the student 
has mastered this principle she is ready to make use of it at any point 
where it may apply. She may proceed according to this law in one 
case by providing a supply of heat to her sauce pan to make up for 
the constant loss; she may impede its action by inclosing the heated 
vessel in a covering of non-conducting material; she may modify its 
workings again by interposing a like material between the summer heat 
and her ice-box ; or she may call its most striking action to her aid in 
the freezing of desserts. In like manner chemistry, physiology, bac- 
teriology, economics, and esthetics, are made to contribute to an 
understanding of the work. 

In the laboratory preliminary experiments showing this scientific 
basis for the treatment of foods are given, followed by definite direc- 
tions for the preparation of successful dishes on the basis laid dowTi. 

It is expected that criticism of this last statement will be met with 
from those who favor the plan of leading the student to develop her 
own recipes from the principles mastered. But it is believed that 
recipes have a useful and legitimate place as aids in the successful 
preparation of food, and that, in so far as the work here is concerned 
the slight educational value of this method is not to be considered in 
comparison with the saving of time of busy university students. It is 
expected, however, that the class will develop a certain amount of 
judgment in regard to recipes and to the product likely to result from 
their use. In other words, some analysis of recipes as such is insisted 
upon. 

The idea is constantly emphasized that while there is apparently an 
endless array of both food materials and of methods for their manipu- 
lation, there is underneath all this a very simple and orderly foundation 
of scientific laws, and that with this foundation as a basis it is possible 
to get a true perspecti\'e of selection and preparation of food amidst 
all accidents of circumstance. 

In closing the discussion. President Bevier called attention to the 
fact that it had been quite cleariy shown that however the methods 



242 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

might differ there had been very general agreement that the final 
result should be food in an attractive and appetizing form. She 
also expressed the belief that good results in cooking were secured 
only by working in accordance with the laws of science, and that much 
scientific work with food had been done by people quite ignorant of 
science as such. For example, the woman who makes bread success- 
fully, though she considers herself quite ignorant of bacteriology, 
does imderstand very well that she must not "scald the yeast." 

The Bread Book gives some three hundred recipes, by following 
which good bread may be obtained provided certain fundamental prin- 
ciples about temperature, time, and due care in manipulation are exer- 
cised. It wouJd appear from these papers that there are many methods 
of teaching people to obtain good results in cooking, provided also 
certain fundamental principles are not violated. 



A CAFETERIA FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS.* 

Mary Elliott Arnold. 

Cornell University. 

In planning a cafeteria for college students we had four aims: (i) 
To serve attractive, homelike food; (2) to provide well-balanced and 
nutritious meals; (3) to sell them cheap enough to enable the poorer 
students to buy; and (4) above all to make the experiment pay. The 
last two items were, of course, the greatest problem. The cafeteria 
method of serving was decided on as reducing service to a minimum. 
Laundry bills were cut to a minimum by the use of paper napkins. 
The unit of two hundred was found advantageous because a simple 
equipment with a moderate investment of capital requires but little 
expenditure for interest. The only unnecessary expense allowed was 
in the decorations and china, both of which were made dainty and 
attractive. 

With these a moderate rent, small interest because of the modest 
investment, and minimum amount for wages, it was possible to put 
what money came in where it was essential, namely, into the food 
itself, and butter, milk, eggs, and cream were used as freely as was 
practicable in the cooking. 

There proved to be another advantage to the two hundred unit. 
Instead of employing the hotel or institutional chef, the cooking could 
be done by women and these women could be trained by the managers 
themselves and so carry out the ideals of the place. 

In plannhig the menus, the work done by the department of Home 
Economics of the University proved of the greatest practical assist- 
ance. Meat is an expensive form of protein and to bring down the 
cost of the nieak it was decided to use meat substitutes, such as cheese, 
nuts, legumes, etc., as well as the standard lamb, pork, and beef. We 
give below two price lists showing the advantage in price of substituting 
other forms of protein for meat in part of the meals: 



* Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 191 1. 

243 



244 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



Meals of Average Student (i). 

Breakfast: Cereal, 5 ff; coffee, 5 ^; roll and butter, 2^ $0.12 

Dinner: Meat, 15 ff; potatoes, 35^; soup or vegetable, 5^; dessert, 

5 0; bread and butter, 2 

Supper: Meat, 10 f5; vegetable, 5 ff; salad or sweet, 5 j5; tea, milk, or 

cocoa, s ^; bread and butter, 2 ^ 



30 



27 



Total $0.69 

This is $4.83 a week — too costly a rate for a large nvimber of the 
students. 

Meals of Average Student (2). 

Breakfast: Cereal, 5 0; roll and butter, 2 ^ (coffee is omitted) $0.07 

Dinner: Meat substitute, 5 (i; vegetable or soup, 5 fi; potatoes, 3 ji; 

dessert, 5 )!!; bread and butter, 2^ 20 

Supper: Meat substitute, 5 0; vegetable, s^l salad or sweet, 5 (S; 

tea, milk, or cocoa, 5j*; bread and butter, 2jf 22 



Total $0.49 

This gives a total for the week of $3.20, a saving of $1.54 over price 
list No. I, with no loss of energy value. 

Meat and a meat substitute are served side by side on the counter, 
and though not all the students take scientific feeding quite seriously a 
percentage of them are genuinely interested. By January of the first 
year one-half the students took the meat substitute and when the 
college closed in June several reported that they had come through the 
entire year in excellent physical condition on from $2.24 to $2.80 a 
week. Only very simple menus are served, though we try to vary the 
food from meal to meal. Sample menus are given below: 



Dinner. 

Swedish Onion Soup $0 

Roast Beef 

Walnut Loaf v/ith Tomato 

Sauce (meat substitute) 

Creamed Carrots 

Baked Potatoes 

Cousin Mary's Muffins 

Caramel Cream 

Nantucket Pudding 

Coffee, Tea, Milk, Cocoa 

Bread, 2 slices 

Butter 

Cream 



Dinner. 

Mexican Bean Soup $ 

Roast Pork and Apple Sauce. . . . 
Cheese Pudding (meat substi- 
tute) 

Fried Parsnips 

Boiled Jacket Potatoes 

Corn Muffins 

Washington Pie 

Cornell Pudding 

Coffee, etc. 



1912] A Cafeteria for College Students 245 

Supper. Supper. 

Hungarian Moufa $0. 10 Mexican Stew $0. 10 

•OS 
05 
OS 
OS 
OS 
01 



Peanut Croquettes (meat substi- Lentils (meat substitute) 

tute) OS Leipsiger Allerlei 

Creamed Cabbage 05 Fried Potatoes 

Emma's Potatoes 05 Primaverd Salad 

Banana Salad 05 Baked Apple 

*Baked Apple 05 Hot Rolls 

Hot Rolls oi Coffee, etc. 

Coffee, etc 

*Baked apples are served every night by request. 

Granting good cooking and arithmetic as the two most important 
factors of an eating place, the psychology of feeding certainly comes 
next on the list. Why does the public like this and not that? Why 
for instance do people always take the first pudding on leaving the 
steam table, so that it is wise to place the least popular one there? 
Why when exactly the same menu was served in a large college dining 
room and at the cafeteria did complaints follow in the one case and 
praises in the other? Why, to take a common instance, do people 
prefer to go where there is a crowd? These are superficial instances, 
but other questions strike deeper. Attractive surroundings, a pleas- 
ant atmosphere, and social intercourse make as great an appeal as 
wholesome and appetizing cooking. There are laws of attraction 
and repulsion that must be studied before the problem of public feed- 
ing is to be solved. As one of the students said in speaking of two 
eating places "when I go to a 'dog' (a cheap restaurant) I feel like a 
dog and when I go to — 's I feel like a gentleman." 



THE LUNCH BASKET PROBLEM.^ 
Agnes Hunt. 

Michigan State Agricultural College. 

There are four common ways of carrying a lunch: (i) By means of 
a tin pail; (2) by means of a pasteboard or papier-mache box; (3) in a 
collapsible lunch box ; and (4) in paper bags or wrapping paper. We 
experimented on the first three of these. 

By comparison we find that the tin pail keeps the articles of food in 
the best condition, although it retains the odors and distributes them 
through the different articles. The pasteboard or mache box ranks sec- 
ond in keeping the food moist and it allows the odors to escape somewhat. 
The collapsible box allows the food to dry out more than either of the 
others and, although it is of course more conveniently carried home at 
the end of the day, it is in reality the least satisfactory. On the whole, 
the tin pail seems the most desirable. Of course, a regular dinner pail, 
manufactured in sections, is more expensive in the beginning, the cost 
being 25 cents while that of the others is only 10 and 15, but it pays 
for itself in the long run when you consider that it is practically inde- 
structible and may be kept sweet and clean under the purifying influ- 
ence of boiling water. 

Much of the attractiveness of a lunch depends upon the manner of 
packing. System and order, together with neatness and calculation, 
are necessary in order to prepare properly an inviting lunch. The 
first thing, of course, is to be sure that the lunch box or basket is abso- 
lutely clean. Line it every time it is used with fresh paper. For 
this, oiled paper is best and is really very inexpensive, a dime's 
worth being enough to last a month or more for this purpose, and to 
wrap sandwiches. Wrap each article of food separately and place in 
the box neatly, putting those to be used last, in the bottom, unless they 
are easily crushed. In that case, put those articles where they will be 
hurt the least. It is surprising what may be carried by means of a 
covered glass or one with a screw top — a baked apple or other whole- 
some sauce, syrup, or honey. If fresh grapes are to be put in, they 
may be spared crushing by the use of such a glass. Salads and baked 
beans may also be carried in this manner. If sanitary drinking foun- 

' Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, December, 1911. The experiments reported were carried on by Alice E. 
Jeffery and Elizabeth M. Palm, Seniors in the Home Economics course at the Michi- 
gan State Agricultural College in 191 1. 

246 



1912] The Lunch Basket Problem 247 

tains are not accessible to the lunch carrier, a sanitary collapsible 
drinking cup is a mse addition to the basket and takes up only a little 
space. After the lunch is all packed, lay a neatly folded paper napkin 
on top. 

Using the cost as a basis we worked out several menus for lunches 
and were surprised to find what a satisfactory lunch could be pre- 
pared for from eight to ten cents ; and from the standpoint of variety 
and suitability we found that the material at hand was abundant. We 
prepared three lunches, which conformed as nearly as we could calcu- 
late to the required calorific food value, for which we used a combina- 
tion of the Voit, Atwater and Benedict, and Chittenden standards. 

Lunch No. i. For a Man at Severe Muscular Work. 

Calories required = 1015. 

Four ham sandwiches 635 

Two molasses cookies 228 

One piece cheese (20 grams.) 78 

One orange (^ lb.) 85 

Total calories 1026 

Lunch No. 2. For a Man at Moderate Work. 

Calories required = 756. 

Three cheese sandwiches 477 

One boiled egg 8$ 

One molasses cookie 114 

One orange 85 

Two pieces celery 3 

Total calories 764 

Lunch No. 3. For a Woman or Child at Moderate Work. 

Calories required = 606. 

Three celery sandwiches 384 

One boiled egg 85 

One cookie 114 

One apple 30 

Total calories 613 

For a growing child we have assumed the same number of calories 
as is required by a woman in moderate work, 606 calories. The aver- 
age lunch will mount up to a much higher calorific food value than this 



248 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

— a lunch, for example, which contains three or four meat or cheese 
sandwiches, cookies, cake, pie, etc. 

Sandwiches form the foundation for so many lunches and furnish 
variety to such an extent that the following outline has been worked 
out. Sandwiches may be classed according to the kind of bread used, 
each kind having certain fillings especially suited to it: 

I. White bread. 

(a) Meat — Plain or chopped and mixed with salad dressing 
for variety. By actual experiment we have found that 
meat chopped and mixed with dressing will go twice as 
far as plain sliced meat. 

(b) Egg — Of course there are numerous ways of preparing 
these. We tried three kinds: (i) Plain sliced hard boiled 
egg; (2) chopped egg with salad dressing; (3) chopped 
egg with cream sauce. Of these three we like the plain 
sliced egg the best. 

(c) Salad sandwiches — This idea is somewhat new, but we 
have found that delicious sandwiches may be made from 
almost any kind of fresh vegetables chopped and mixed 
with salad dressing. Of these we made (i) lettuce, and 
(2) celery. 

(d) Relish sandwiches — These consist of olives, pickles, or 
pimentos, chopped and mixed with dressing if desired. 
They are very satisfactory. 

(e) American cheese, plain or mixed with dressing — Of 
course these are not so new but they are very good and 
nutritious. 

II. Boston brown bread — This may include (a) cream cheese; (b) 

chopped nuts; and (c) Dutch cheese. 

III. Rye bread — This may include (a) cheese; and (b) spiced meat. 

IV. Fancy sandwiches — These form a class by themselves. They 

are usually made with white bread and include (a) jelly; 

(b) orange marmalade; (c) nuts; and (d) dates or figs. 

These are commonly called "sweet sandwiches" and are 

best used when no cake is to be had. Meat sliced thin and 

packed in a neat little package is nice to put in to be eaten 

with them. 

We have computed the value of some of these sandwiches as follows: 

(i) Two celery sandwiches weighing 79 grams give a calorific value of 

253; (2) two ham sandwiches weighing 90 grams give a calorific value 



1912] The Lunch Basket Problem 249 

of 318, as do also (3) two cheese sandwiches weighing 85 grams; 

(4) two egg sandysnches (plain) weighing 119 grams give a calorific 
value of 335. The rest of the lunch, as pre\iously stated, must be 
made to correspond to these calorific values. 

The next articles to be considered are the cakes and cookies. Rich 
cakes must always be avoided as well as those which crush. A layer 
cake is out of the question, but the following may be used very nicely: 
(i) Gingerbread cut in neat squares, which may or may not be frosted; 
(2) sugar cookies; (3) drop cakes, which are very easily and quickly 
made, and which furnish variety; (4) strips of cake with plain frosting; 

(5) ginger snaps and molasses cookies; and (6) little sponge and spice 
cakes. In regard to the keeping qualities of these we found that the 
cup cakes and soft cookies were best and more desirable for the lunch. 

We next studied the matter of relishes. These add little if any to 
the calorific value, but they do add to the flavor and general attrac- 
tiveness of the lunch. Radishes, olives, small pickles, or celery may be 
used, but a small quantity is all that is desired, as for instance, three 
olives or two pickles. 

Fruit should always be used in season. A ripe but solid peach, 
pear, or apple is always pleasing. Grapes may be carried in a covered 
glass to keep them from crushing. Bananas are too hearty on top of 
the average lunch. One might add a tightly covered glass containing 
apple sauce, prunes, a baked apple or pear, a baked custard, a canned 
peach, or jam. These are best used when fresh fruit is not available 
and should be eaten with plain bread and butter sand%viches. 

Confections are desirable if few other sweets have been put into 
the lunch, but only the pure maple sugar or home-made fudge or 
molasses candy should be used. 

The conclusions we would draw are these: 

(i) The average lunch is too hea\'y. 

(2) The quantity of food used may be suited to the needs of the 
eater in a "put-up" lunch as well as in a hot dinner. 

(3) A large variety of food is obtainable which is very suitable for 
the needs of the lunch basket. 

(4) A tin pail furnishes the best means by which to carry a lunch. 

(5) Planning is needed in the preparation of a lunch. 

(6) There is no excuse for a lunch looking anything but neat, and 
that it may, on the other hand, be a "work of art." 



HIGH SCHOOL LUNCHEONS IN PHILADELPHIA.^ 

Emma Smedley. 
Superintendent of Lunch Rooms. 

School luncheons in Philadelphia began as an experiment in the 
William Penn High School for Girls, which accommodates about 
eighteen hundred pupils. At the opening of the following school year, 
September, 19 lo, the Board of Public Education expressed its approval 
of the work of the previous year, by extending the luncheon scheme 
to include the large Manual Training High School for Boys. 

At present the lunch rooms are under the supervision of a person 
appointed by a committee of the Board of Public Education. She is 
authorized to eng9.ge all assistants necessary to conduct a lunch room 
which shall furnish to the pupils and teachers wholesome, nutritious 
food at net cost; to purchase all food supplies and arrange the selling 
price in accordance with the original cost, so that all expenses of serv- 
ice and food will be met by the luncheon receipts; and to pay all 
bills after they have been approved by a committee appointed from the 
faculty of the school. 

The director of luncheons meets the individual problems of each 
school through the principal, or through the faculty committee. When 
opening a new lunch room, the director meets the pupils and teachers 
in their morning assembly and talks to them of the value of a whole- 
some luncheon, and the plan to be followed in the present system. 
She explains how the luncheon will be managed on the cooperative 
plan — the Board of Education furnishing the equipment, while the 
food is purchased at the best wholesale prices and served at a price 
that will be sufficient to cover the cost of the food and service. The 
heart of a boy is reached when he feels that he is given a "square 
deal," and these boys are at once enthusiastic over the plan, and are 
eager to be of assistance in the lunch room. 

In each of the seven schools at present included in the system there 
is a competent person, a graduate in domestic science or one trained 
by her, who is responsible for the carrying out of all plans made by the 
superintendent; the details of food preparation and serving, keeping a 
record of stock on hand, selling luncheon checks to the students, and 
making bank deposits. She reports each day by telephone or in person 
to the office of th,e superintendent. 

' Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December, 1911. 

250 



1912] High School Luncheons 251 

The number of helpers is arranged according to the need in each 
school. With an enrollment of about 4000 children and about 200 
teachers, we employ 29 women, i man, and 50 student aids. Seven 
of the women are employed only three hours each day, one woman 
gives half of her time to the duties of cashier in one of the large schools, 
and the other half to the bookkeeping and stock records for all of the 
schools. 

In addition, pupils are engaged as helpers. These pupil aids are 
supervised by a class representative; they serve in turn; and they show 
a business attitude to their work. They are paid ten cents a day. 

It was with some trepidation that we ventured to serve food to the 
high school students, for the traditional high school luncheon consisted 
of pastry, cream puffs, crullers, and a great variety of cakes and 
candies. Our plan is to exclude all of these from the menu and to fur- 
nish simple, plain foods, from which may be selected a substantial 
mid-day meal; soup, meat, substantial vegetables, cocoa, and home- 
made desserts. 

At first the boys did not take willingly to our bill of fare, and we had 
to coax them to try the new kinds of plain substantial foods in place of 
the customary pastry and cakes. This was done by means of printed 
signs in the form of rhymes, tacked up in conspicuous places about the 
room. We see many e\'idences that their ideas have changed. Re- 
cently one of the boys said, "We boys didn't like your place at first, 
but I don't think there's many fellows could eat the other stuff now; 
and another boy remarked, "We boys certainly do respect the lunch 
room." 

A few days ago one of my assistants met a graduate of last year, 
now in business, who said that he used to think he realized the excel- 
lence of our lunch, but he never had appreciated it so much as now 
when he is going from one restaurant to another in search of something 
attractive and palatable that will come within the reach of his purse. 

To quote from a recent report sent to the Board of Education by the 
principal of one of our large schools: 

We have now had enough experience with the cooperative lunch room to justify 
our reporting it to be an entire success. Our pupils are furnished with wholesome 
food at prices varying from one-fourth to three-fourths the charge at good restau- 
rants. For example, each day's menu includes one solid dish, usually a meat and a 
roll, for 5 cents, a large cup of cocoa with whipped cream for 3 cents, and excellent 
meat sandwiches for 3 cents. At first very many of the pupils brought lunches from 
home, but gradually they have come to see that it is not only more convenient 



252 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

but also more economical to patronize the lunch counter. The lunch plant is en- 
tirely self-sustaining, and as the profits have grown, the portions of food have been 
increased and the price reduced. 

The daily menu also includes soup and a roll 5 cents, pudding for 
3 cents, ice cream 5 cents, milk 3 cents per glass, fresh fruits varying in 
price according to the season, dried figs and dates in 2 cent packages 
wrapped in paraffin paper, sweet chocolate in i cent, 3 cent and 5 cent 
portions, hard pretzels, and plain biscuits. Cake is on the menu only 
when it can be made in our own kitchen, and is then served in place of 
the dessert. 

The soups, macaroni and cheese, baked beans, beef on toast, hot 
roast beef sandwiches, and puddings are all very popular. At the 
William Penn High School, we frequently serve 40 gallons of soup, 
18 gallons of baked beans, 400 sandwiches, and 1200 portions of pud- 
ding and ice cream in a single day. 

At all of the schools the soup, substantial dish, and desserts are 
varied each day and a record is kept of the daily menu showing the 
ntunber of portions served. For this record a printed card is provided 
each week by the central office. At the end of the week this menu 
report is sent to the superintendent, who compares it with the record 
of the preceding week and makes suggestions for any changes which 
may give better combinations or a greater variety in the menu for the 
coming week. 

A table d'hote luncheon for 15 cents or 20 cents is served each day 
to the faculty in the large schools. The teachers from a grammar 
school several squares away come every day to one of our buildingB 
for their lunch, and in one of the small schools there are about fifteen 
pupils coming from a grammar school near by. These boys requested 
to be allowed to patronize our lunch counter. 

Each school is visited once a wfeek by the superintendent, or by one 
of the assistants, during the morning or at the luncheon hour. The 
central office is in communication with each school by telephone 
every day. 

In order that the inexpensive school lunch room may be self-support- 
ing and at the same time maintain a high standard of excellence, the 
buying must be done most carefully by a person who is thoroughly 
familiar with all food supplies. She must also follow the food that was 
ordered into the kitchen and to the lunch counter and be able to detect 
wasteful methods on the part of employees, for it is only by exercising 
true economy in every section of the work that success will be gained. 



I9I2J 



High School Luncheons 



253 



We have formulated a system for keeping a record of the supplies on 
hand. Each school is provided weekly with a supply sheet on which is 
printed a list of every article to be found in our storerooms. The 
person in charge notes in the first column on the sheet the amount of 
each article on hand, and in the next she records the amount received 
during the week. The quantities used each day are noted in other 
columns, so that at the end of each week the amounts in the store 
room will correspond with the last column on the sheet, it being the 
sum of the first two columns, less the stock used during the week. 
This total is used for the first column of the sheet for the following 
week. This sheet is then sent to the bookkeeper who transfers to an 
indexed card file the amounts received and the total on hand. 

This handy desk record of all supplies in each school is very helpful 
when givang the weekly orders, and it simplifies the work of prepar- 
ing the monthly financial statement. It is also useful in stimulating 
greater care in the use of supplies by those in charge of the various 
schools. 

The following is a portion of a weekly supply sheet: 

Name of School Week ending 





SUPPLY 
RECEIVED 


a 

S5 



a 


< 


a 

IB 

i 

m 


< 
a 

D 

eg 


FRIDAY 


H 
U 

< 

■< 

n 


Salmon 


] 














Sardines. . . . 
















Tongue. . . . 


' 














Soup stock.. 


1 














Tomatoes. . 


1 
















1 















The equipment for the school lunch room depends upon the charac- 
ter of luncheon to be served, the number of pupils and teachers in the 
school, and the kind of helpers employed. 

When planning the ideal kitchen or lunch room for a large school, 
one must consult with the architect who is making the original plans 
for the building. He must consider the location of all permanent 
equipment; steam cookers, range, sinks, counters etc., that he may 
provide for adequate ventilation and underdrainage. Few of us, how- 
ever, have this opportunity of beginning with the building and must 
make the best of conditions that we find in old, poorly planned build- 
ings. At our William Penn School the present plan of having food 



254 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

prepared at the school was not so much as thought of until the building 
was completed. On this account we suffer daily from inadequate 
floor space in kitchen and pantry, in the seating capacity of the lunch 
room, and from insufficient ventilation and drainage. But we have 
made the best of these conditions in arranging the present plant which 
now pro\ides for 2200 pupils and 90 teachers. 

In the annexes it had been necessary for us to adapt various existing 
conditions to our needs. For instance, in one of these schools we use 
for our kitchen a room that was originally intended for the kitchen 
of a private house. For serving we have placed a counter across a 
window, and a ser\ing table (heated by gas) in a doorway of the old 
mansion. The four hundred students file past this window and door, 
are served, and then go into the class rooms, using the desks as tables. 
All soiled dishes are returned to the counter, and the class rooms left in 
order at the close of the recess period. 

In another building a closet, having one window, is used for our 
kitchen, and a table placed in the hall in front of the door answers for 
a counter. Even in our large schools we do not employ men chefs or 
colored cooks, but have all of the cooking done by domestic science 
graduates, assisted by women with home experience. 

We are hoping to cooperate in the near future with the domestic 
science department of the high school, and give the students who are 
taking the vocational course the opportunity of actual experience in 
the preparation of food in large quantities and in the management of 
the lunch room. Through this training a girl may be assisted in find- 
ing congenial employment, and we shall probably secure some very 
valuable permanent assistants. 

We are also making arrangements with the director of the domestic 
science department of Drexel Institute to provide a place for students 
who wish to gain experience in luncheon management. By this plan 
students who are taking the institutional course may spend some 
time in our schools, as pupil dietitians, before receiving the Drexel 
certificate. 



THE FLOUR AND YEAST IN BREAD. 

Florence I. Dudley. 

Agricultural College of Utah. 

Good bread indicates a relatively well advanced stage of civilization. 
Many housekeepers of today make good bread, but often they neither 
understand the reasons for the methods used, nor know the cause of 
the difficulties which may arise. The tests here reported were made at 
the Agricultural College of Utah, in the hope of explaining some of 
these difficulties. 

The two most important ingredients of bread making, the flour and 
the yeast, are also the most variable. The quality of the flour depends 
both upon the kind of wheat used, and the way in which it is milled. 
Hard wheats, in general, make better bread flour than soft wheats. 
Those used in the baking tests simimarized below were common Utah 
varieties, which had been studied at the Utah Experiment Station. 
The names of the flours, "high patent," "straight grade," etc., cor- 
respond to those in common use in most sections of the United States. 

The following standard recipe is characteristic of those followed in 
the tests: 

Milk and Water Bread. 

One cup scalded milk in one cup water. (Better bread is obtained if the water 
has been boiled.) 

One yeast cake dissolved, or its equivalent of liquid yeast. 

One-fourth cup lukewarm water. 

One and one-half teaspoonfuls salt. 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar. 

One tablespoonful lard. 

One tablespoonful butter. 

About 6 cups sifted flour, or i cup high patent flour and enough entire wheat 
flour to knead. 

The sugar, lard, and butter may be omitted if desired. 

Put the butter, lard, and sugar (if used) and the salt in a bread raiser, pour on the 
scalded milk, and add the water. WTien lukewarm, add the dissolved yeast cake 
and five cups of flour; then stir until thoroughlj- mi.xed. Add flour, enough to knead, 
let rise until it doubles in size, knead down again, and let rise a second time. This 
second kneading and rising is sometimes omitted, but bread has a better texture 
when it is so treated, no matter what kind of yeast is used. Form into loaves, 
place in the pan, let rise until it doubles its bulk, and then bake. 

255 



256 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Difficulties in bread making due to flour. — Gluten is, of course, the 
most important ingredient in flour for bre^d making purposes. It is 
composed of gliaden and glutenin, and the bread making quality 
depends on the proportion of the two. The gliaden, a sort of plant 
gelatin, is the material which binds the flour particles together to form 
the dough, thus gi\^ng it tenacity and adhesiveness, and the glutenin 
is the part to which the gliaden adheres. If the gliaden is in excess, 
the dough will be soft and sticky; in case of a deficiency there is lack 
of expansive power. A flour may have a high percentage of gluten 
and total protein and still not produce the best bread, because of an 
imperfect blending of the gliaden and the glutenin. The more gluten 
there is in a flour the more water it will absorb, and it has been found 
that flour of about 12 per cent gluten makes the most satisfactory 
bread, providing its two parts, gliaden and glutenin, are well balanced. 

Sometimes bread looks very promising when it first begins to rise, 
but when it is ready to be formed into loaves it becomes flat instead of 
rounding over the top. This may be due to such causes as (i) lack of 
gluten in the flour; (2) an insufiicient amount of flour; or (3) the flour 
made from frosted wheat. 

The influence of hot and cold flour on bread making. — When flour is 
kept in a cold place — especially during the cold months of the year — 
and used without warming it, it is not in a good condition to make 
bread. Cold checks the action of fermentation and occasionally 
becomes the cause of bad bread. On the other hand, flour for bread 
may be heated too high. Dough made from flour that has been heated 
to about i58°F. does not make the best bread, because the dough will 
be too soft and will have a tendency to be ropy. The best tempera- 
ture for flour is 7o°F. 

Wetting in bread. — The practice of using milk in domestic bread 
making is quite prevalent in some sections. That the custom does not 
become more general must be due either to the lack of appreciation of 
the food value of milk, or because it requires more care to use milk 
successfully. 

Excellent and nutritious bread is made with whey or scalded butter- 
milk or skimmed milk as part of the wetting, instead of water alone. 
The addition of skimmed milk, buttermilk, or whey has very much the 
same effect as regards food value, \vith the exception of the fat content, 
as is shown in the following table. The use of whole milk as a part of 
the wetting adds the most to the food value of the bread, but it is 
more expensive than the other milk products mentioned. The follow- 



I9I2] 



The Flour and Yeast in Bread 



257 



ing table shows the composition of whole milk, skimmed milk, and 
buttermilk : 

Relative composition of whole milk, skimmed milk, and buttermilk. 



KIND or MILK. 



Per cent. \ Per cent. 

Whole milk ' 87.0 3.3 

Skimmed milk ' 90.5 , 3.3 

Buttermilk ' 91.0 j 3.0 




Yeast. — Yeast requires moisture, warmth, and food for growth; 
no matter what form of yeast is used by the housekeeper, it must be 
provided with these conditions for growth to make the bread light. 
Dry yeast cakes, compressed yeast, and so-called "live" yeast (the 
home-made liquid yeast often called "elastic," "elective," or "germ") 
are the sorts usually used in Utah households. 

Moisture is lacking in commercial dry cake yeast and it keeps for a long 
time; in the others moisture is present and the yeast plants "work 
themselves out" or die. A temperature a little below body tempera- 
ture (74°F.) is best for the growth of yeast. This is the reason for 
keeping the bread lukewarm. The principal food for growth for yeast 
is sugar, or if this is not present, it converts starch into sugar. Potato 
water added to yeast contains starch and mineral matter which is 
also needed, and therefore is a good food for the yeast. Even a very 
low temperature does not kill yeast — it merely checks its growth — but 
boiling vdW kill it. 

Experiments made as a part of the study here reported have shown 
that 337 cc. "live" yeast (i.e., the home-made liquid yeast), or i\ cups, 
are equivalent to 6 grams compressed yeast; 787.5 cc. "live" yeast 
are equivalent to i compressed yeast cake; 335 cc. "live" yeast are 
equivalent to i dry yeast cake. 

The following summary of data regarding yeast includes the result 
of numerous experiments which were carried on, as well as some general 
data. The commercial dry yeast is the yeast plant mLxed with some 
flour and corn meal and dried at a low heat. In this form it can be 
kept for a year or longer. It eventually grows weaker and dies out in 
keeping. Because of its keeping qualities, it is a convenient form for 
the housekeeper to have at hand. It can be used to "start" "live" 
(liquid) yeast if the yeast is wet up with water and the corn meal is 



258 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

carefully strained out. In using it for bread, the yeast cake should 
be soaked in one cup of lukewarm water for one hour; then a sponge 
should be made of this by adding i\ cups of flour. Allow this to rise 
in a warm place from four to six hours and the sponge is ready for 
use. In the experience of housekeepers bread made from this dry 
yeast is not good unless the water has been boiled. 

Compressed yeast is a very satisfactory source of yeast for those 
who live in towns or cities where it may be purchased fresh in the 
market. It is a perishable article, only lasting in good condition for a 
few days when kept on ice. Care should be taken that the cake, after 
it has been opened and not all used, is rewrapped in the tin foil, as it 
deteriorates more readily if left open. The so-called quick process 
bread is made in from four to five hours by using a larger quantity of 
yeast, while long process bread is made in from eight to twelve hours. 
For I cup (225 cc.) of liquid 3 grams of compressed yeast cake is neces- 
sary for long process bread, and 10 grams for quick process bread; i 
quart of wetting (900 cc.) requires 6 grams for long process bread, and 
26.5 grams for quick process bread. 

"Live" yeast, as the old-fashioned liquid yeast is known in Utah, 
when home made is very satisfactory and can be made and kept by 
any housekeeper who chooses to do so. Formerly it was thought neces- 
sary to get a "start" from a neighbor, but this is now an idea of the 
past. "Live" yeast can be started from compressed yeast, or dry 
yeast cakes. "Live" yeast is ordinarily made as follows: Boil i| 
cup potatoes in i quart water until done; to the potato water add 2 
ounces sugar, and when cooled to lukewarm temperature add about 
\ yeast cake. Keep in a warm place and in from two to eight hours 
the yeast will be ready for use. The time depends upon whether 
proper conditions for growth are provided for or not. Be sure the 
yeast has worked well before bread is made with it, and use only the 
cupful taken from the top of the yeast for a new starter. 

It has been found by the experiments here summarized that (i) the 
yeast, when no mashed potato is added to the water, grows faster and 
does not require so much sugar to keep it sweet, although the bread 
will not be as moist; (2) salt retards the working of yeast a little but not 
to any great extent; (and 3) a little ginger hastens it. In the experi- 
ments with the ginger, one cup of new yeast was placed in each of two 
flasks. The carbon dioxid given off in each case was measured by 
collecting the gas over water in a graduated measuring cylinder. It 



19 1 2] The Flour and Yeast in Bread 259 

was found at the end of three hours that the bottle to which 1^ of a 
teaspoonful of ginger had been added gave off 50 cc. of gas, while the 
other one gave off only 30 cc. 

Washing yeast. — When the yeast "wears out" it makes bread similar 
to bread made from soiir yeast. It can be renewed by adding water 
and allowing it to stand a few hours, then turning the water off, leav- 
ing the yeast in the bottom. If washed again, sugar and potato water 
added, and allowed to rise, it will make bread as good as when it was 
new. This washing seems to remove foreign micro-organisms. How- 
ever, it is easier to make new yeast from yeast cake, and most people 
do so instead of washing the worn-out yeast. 

Feeding yeast. — Yeast in liquid form prepared at home may be kept 
alive and active by adding sugar. It is more economical, however, to 
save the top part of liquid yeast and add it to potato water a few hours 
before using, as in this way less sugar is necessary. In an experiment 
yeast eight days old and yeast twelve hours old made bread of the same 
quality. The yeast was made and kept growing for eight days by 
the addition of sugar. Another jar of yeast was made and kept for 
six hours, and bread was made from both of these yeasts at the same 
time. The results were similar and the breads were both good. 

Sour yeast. — When it is kept too long, yeast sometimes turns sour; 
this is probably due to other micro-organisms besides yeast plants 
developing in it, giving off kcid in their growth. It is sometimes possi- 
ble to sweeten sour yeast by the addition of a little soda and make 
good bread from it, but it will not do for a starter for new yeast. Of 
course, much depends on the length of time the yeast has been sour. 
In one case where yeast soured and stood a long time, then was given 
food, it became slimy and thick as a result of the foreign micro-organ- 
isms that developed in the liquid. This yeast made a fairly good loaf 
of bread, however. In case of very slight sourness in yeast, sugar 
will sometimes counteract it. 

Frozen yeast. — Yeast that has been frozen cannot be depended upon 
to make bread. The reason for this is not entirely understood, but it 
is probably due to the fact that the cold destroys the vitality of the 
yeast cells so thoroughly that when a higher temperature is restored 
the cells are no longer able to renew their growth. The exact amount 
of cold necessary thus to deaden the cells is not definitely known. 



26o 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



Bread Experiments With Different Flours and Yeasts. 

Nineteen baking experiments were made with flours from different 
types of Utah wheat and with different kinds of yeast prepared in 
different ways. The kind and amounts of yeast, the amounts of other 
constituents, and other data are shown in the following table : 







Kina 


' and I 


imount 


of material used in 


making bread. 




b 

1 
(a 
O 

d 

2! 







< 





< 









KIND OF FLOUR. 






Cms. 


Gms. 


Cc. 


Cc. 


Gms. 


Gotj. 


Gms. 




Hours. 


I 


8 






900 


20 


10 


1468 


Straight grade 


i 


2 


7 






900 


20 


10 


1600 


High patent 


6 


3 


8 






900 


20 


10 


1700 


High patent 


6 


4 


7 






900 


20 


10 


1700 


Straight grade 


6 


5 




6.0 




900 


20 


10 


1500 


High patent 


2 


6 




26.5 
10. 




900 


20 


10 


1490 


High patent 


I 


7 






225 


16 


4 


382 


High patent 


I 


8 




10. 




225 


16 


4 


389 


Straight grade 


2 


9 




10. 




225 


16 


4 


329 


High patent 


2 


lO 




10 . 




225 


16 


4 


390 


Turkey 


2 


II 




10. 




225 


16 


4 


356 


Straight grade 


2 


12 




lO.O 




225 


16 


4 


346 


High patent 


2 


13 




10. 




225 


16 


4 


390 


Kofod 


2 


14 






225 




16 


4 


328 


Turkey 




IS 






225 




16 


4 


375 


High patent 




i6 






225 




16 


4 


36s 


High patent 




17 






225 




16 


4 


392 


Straight grade 




i8 






900 




20 


10 


1324 


High patent 




19 






65 




16 


4 


368 


Straight grade 





The following table shows the time the different samples were 
allowed to rise, the duration of the baking period, the quality of the 
bread, and similar data. 

It will be seen that in most cases the bread was of fair quality. In 
only one case was the quality poor, and in several it was excellent. 



I9I2J 



The Flour and Yeast in Bread 



261 



Results of experimental studies of bread. 



\ 

CD 

s 

6 

z 










z 





Q- 

Si 


So 


REMARKS. 




Hours. 


Hours. 


Hours. 


Hours. 






Cms. 


Yellow bread, 335 
grams flour added 


I 


9 


2h 


I 


i 


Fair 


Good 


830 


at first kneading, 
60 grams when 
put in pans. Bread 
was ropy. 


3 


10 


ih 




I 


Fair 


Good 


1090 




3 


10 


ih 




i 


Fair 


Good 


900 




4 


10 


2 




i 


Good 


Good 


1000 




5 


9 


3 






Excel. 


Excel. 


476 




6 


2 


I 


ih 




Good 


Good 


1095 


A little yellow. 


7 


2 






f 


Excel. 


Excel. 


S39 


A little yellow. 


8 


2 








Excel. 


Excel. 


S30 




9 


2i 






? 


Fair 


Good 


S09 




10 


2 








Poor 


Poor 


47S 




II 


2 








Excel. 


Excel. 


466 


[One loaf in each 
I case. 


12 


2 








Fair 


Good 


494 




13 


2 








Good 


Good 


461 




14 


2 






f 


Excel. 


Good 


899 




IS 


2i 




IIS 


1 


Good 


Good 


S03 




16 


2| 




1. 10 


f 


Excel. 


Excel. 


S76 




17 


3 




1. 10 


f 


Excel. 


Excel. 


473 


Made two loaves. 


18 


i^ 


I 


f 


f 


Good 


Good 




Yellow. 


19 


4 


2 


_ 


f 


Good 


Good 






r 


?he da 


taobt 


ained 


in the 


experim( 


;nts brief 


y rep( 


)rted in the above 



tables and in the tests with yeast may be summarized as follows: 



Conclusions. 

(i) The quality of flour for bread making depends upon the per- 
centage of gluten in the flour, and the proportion of gliaden and glu- 
tenin in the gluten. 

(2) The temperature of the flour affects the quality of bread made 
from it. The best temperature is 7o°F. 

(3) Nutritive material is added to bread by using whole milk, 
skimmed milk, and buttermilk for wetting, instead of all or part of 
the water commonly used. 



262 The Journal of Home Econo?nics [June 

(4) Quick process bread of good flavor and texture can be made in 
four hours with "live" yeast as the only moisture. 

(5) The length of time required to raise yeast depends upon con- 
ditions. If the yeast plants are alive and active, four tablespoonfuls 
of liquid yeast to two cups of potato water will rise in five hours. 
One cup of yeast full of life will start 2 or 3 quarts of potato water in 
from two to six hours if held at the correct temperature, which is 
about 7o°F. 

(6) As far as food for the yeast is concerned, it is not necessary to 
add potato to the potato water. However, yeast with this addition 
makes more moist bread than does yeast made without potato. 

(7) Sour yeast may sometimes be sweetened by a little sugar or a 
little soda. Such sweetened yeast is, however, not strong enough to 
use as a starter for new yeast, and if it is too sour cannot be used for 
any purpose. 

(8) Yeast that has been frozen cannot be depended upon to make 
bread. 

(9) Ginger hastens the growth of yeast. 
(10) Salt retards the growth of yeast slightly. 



FACTORS AFFECTING THE ECONOMIC AND THE 

DIETETIC VALUE OF FOODS. No 1. A 

STUDY OF CAKES.^ 

AvA B. Milam. 

Outline of the Dissertation. 

I. Introduction. 

Origin and history of cakes. 
II. Purpose and plan of the experiment. 

1. Purpose of the experiment. 

2. Method of work. 

3. Proportions of ingredients. 

4. Baking. 

III. Variation in methods. 

1. Of mixing. 

2. Of melting and creaming the fat. 



^ An outline of a dissertation submitted to the faculty of the Graduate School of 
Arts and Literature, University of Chicago, in candidacy for the degree of Master of 
Arts, department of household administration. 



1912] A Study of Cakes 263 

IV^. Flours. 

1 . Properties affecting the quality, the economic and the dietetic value 

of cakes. 

A. Grades. 

B. Physical properties. 

1. Color. 

2. Granulation. 

C. Composition. 

1. Gliadin. 

2. Glutenin. 

3. Gluten. 

4. Starch. 

2. Use of various grades of flour. 

A. Comparison of a fine grade pastry, ordinary pastry, and bread 

flour. 

B. Comparison of a fine grade pastry, ordinary' pastry and bread 

flour to which corn starch is added. 
V. Sugar. 

1 . Properties affecting the quality, the economic and the dietetic value 

of cakes. 

A. Influence of amount of te.xture and grain. 

B. Forms of sugar. 

1. Granulated. • 

2. Powdered. 

3. Soft brown. 

2. Use of various forms of sugar. Comparison of powdered, granulated, 

and sugar syrup on cakes. 
VI. Liquids. 

1. Properties affecting the quality, the economic and the dietetic value 

of cakes. 

A. Of water. 

B. Of whole milk. 

C. Of condensed milk (diluted). 

D. Of milk powders (desiccated milk dissolved.) 

2. Use of various liquids. 

A. Comparison of whole milk, condensed milk (diluted) and water. 

Vn. Eggs, desiccated egg, and egg substitutes. 

1 . Properties affecting the quality, the economic and the dietetic value 

of cakes. 

A. Of whole fresh eggs. 

B. Of cold storage eggs. 

C. Of broken eggs. 

D. Of desiccated eggs. 

E. Of egg substitutes. 

2. Use of various forms of eggs; comparison of whole eggs, desiccated 

eggs and egg substitutes. 



264 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

VIII. Fats. 

1. Properties afifecting the quality, the economic and the dietetic value 

of cakes. 

A. Of butter. 

B. Of oleomargarine. 

C. Of lard. 

D. Of commercial lard substitutes. 

2. Use of various fats. 

A. Comparison of different amounts. 

B. Comparison of butter, lard, and lard substitutes. 
IX. Food value of cake. 

X. Summary of experimental results. 

Purpose and Plan of the Experiment. 

Purpose of the study. — When an article of diet comes into as general 
use as has cake, the factors affecting its economic and dietetic value as 
well as its quality justify study. There is a lack of definite knowledge 
of these factors and inadequate means of controlling the conditions. 
The purpose of this study was to show the effect of varying the kind 
and form of ingredients on the quality, the cost, and the economic and 
dietetic value of cakes. 

Method of work. — The work was carried out on a typical whole egg- 
butter cake, one of a close grain and fine texture. In many cases the 
experiments were repeated on a corresponding white cake, differing 
only in the use of the egg white instead of the whole eggs. Exact 
weighed amounts of ingredients were used. Every effort was made to 
prevent any variation in the experiment except for the factor w^hich 
formed the basis of the experiment in hand. Therefore any difference 
in the resulting cakes might be attributed to this factor. 

In all this work one-fourth the recipe was used, duplicate experi- 
ments being carried out in every case, and a final check with the entire 
recipe. 

The tests were made by the instructors in the department. 

The prices quoted are retail Chicago prices. 

The baking. — The cakes were baked in small oval pans each contain- 
ing 125 grams of batter and labelled. From the results of previous 
work of the department, i98°C. was accepted as the most desirable 
temperature for cake baking. Therefore all the cakes reported in 
these experiments were baked at this temperature and cakes belonging 
to the same group were placed in the oven at the same time. While an 
effort was made to keep the temperature of the oven constant at 195°, 
a slight variation of a degree or two at times seemed unavoidable. 



191 2] A Study of Cakes 265 

SuMilARY. 

1. The cost of cakes may be reduced from the standpoint of time 
consumed in the mLxing, since the fat used in cakes may be melted as 
well as creamed. According to Miss Wellman this is estimated to 
save, on the average, one-half the time consumed in mixing. 

2. Good cakes may be obtained from the use of bread flour; still 
better may be obtained with bread flour, reducing its gluten content 
to more nearly approximate the gluten content of pastry flour; the 
best cakes, however, are obtained by the use of the fine pastry flours. 

3. Apparently it is the gluten content of the flour that has the most 
decided influence on the quality of the resulting cakes. So high a 
gluten content as is found in bread is probably undesirable for use in 
cakes. 

4. The difference in the cost of flours is a factor to be considered. 
The cost for the 3-cup flour recipe is as follows: Bread flour, 2.3 cents; 
ordinary pastry 4 cents; and fine grade pastry 6 cents. 

5. The form of the sugar has a marked effect on the quality of the 
cake produced, with little effect on the cost. 

6. It is most desirable to have the sugar for cake-making in the 
form in which it can be most easily and thoroughly mixed, so long as 
it is kept in a solid state. So powdered sugar affords the most desir- 
able form. 

7. The use of powdered sugar is not extravagant in most cases as it 
adds only i.i cents to the cost of cakes made of rolled and sifted gran- 
ulated sugar. 

8. Cakes of as good quality may be obtained with water as with 
whole or condensed milk. 

9. The use of water in cakes means a lowering of cost, a decrease of 
1.5 cents (milk at 8 cents per quart) on the cost of the entire cake. 

10. By the use of water the food value of cake is also decreased. 

11. The greatest gain from the use of water in cake-making arises 
from the availability, which is a factor quite worthy of consideration. 

12. The use of eggs is quite essential in cake-making. They not only 
serve as partial leavening agents, but they bear a decided influence 
on the flavor, texture, grain, and food value of the cake. 

13. If whole, fresh eggs are not available, desiccated eggs may be 
used and a fairly good cake obtained, provided the powders are fresh. 

14. The effect of the substitution of desiccated eggs for fresh whole 
eggs on the cost of cake varies according to the locality and season of 
the year. 



266 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

15. With the standard 3-cup flour recipe one-half cup of butter 
seemed to give a cake of the best quality. This means a reduction of 
5.1 cents for the ordinary sized cake, estimating butter at 32 cents per 
pound. 

16. In reducing the amount of butter from f cup to \ cup the food 
value of cake is lowered. 

17. Commercial lard substitutes and lard when fresh may be sub- 
stituted for butter in both whole eggs and white cake without detec- 
tion, provided the cakes are not eaten when warm. 

18. When fats containing no salt, and the fat content of which is 
practically 100 per cent, are substituted for butter in cake-making, 
less of the fats should be used with an additional amount of salt. 

19. By the substitution of these fats for butter the cost of the cakes 
is reduced perceptibly, varying from 10.2 cents for butter to from 2.6 
cents to 3.1 cents for lard substitutes, 4.6 cents for butterine and 3.1 
cents for lard. The difference in the cost of cakes made with the differ- 
ents fats will vary with different localities and different seasons. 

20. Of the cheaper fats used the lard substitutes seemed the most 
satisfactory, but oleomargarine was not tried. 

21. In the use of the fats care should be taken that they are fresh, 
for when rancid they are easily distinguished from butter in cakes even 
by tastes that are not particularly sensitive. 

22. Cake is a fairly concentrated form of food, the average serving 
containing practically as much food value as one and one-half glasses 
of milk. So long as it is considered as an accessory to the diet rather 
than an integral part of it, a decrease in the concentration by the sub- 
stitution of water for milk and by a decrease in the fat content would 
not seem objectionable. 



THE HOUSEHOLD EXPERIMENT STATION AT 
COLONIA, N. J. 

In a small suburb near Xew York, in a widespreading pleasant 
country house, has been going on an experiment of much interest to 
the practical housekeeper. Here lives Mrs. Frank A. Pattison, who 
when elected three years ago to the presidency of the Federated 
Clubs of her state, began the duties of her office by first conquering 
her own home domain. To quote Mrs. Pattison, 

Under my existing arrangement of home obligations, it seemed impossible for me 
to crowd in another duty. I had either to engage more servants, or to find some 
other way out of the difficulty. Additional servants meant more time in training 
them to better ways of procedure, and a double expense to the home. So I began 
a systematic stock-taking of those responsibilities which were already overbalancing 
my energies and resources. 

I came to the conclusion that absolute self-independence was as necessary to me, 
as the manager of my home, as it was to any other manager in any other position of 
trust. This was the goal toward which all my energies must be directed, and for 
this end my success was dependent upon two factors. The first was the reorganiza- 
tion of methods of housework along modem scientific lines; the second was the elimi- 
nation of all non-essentials. 

Mrs. Pattison feels that it is "practically impossible to raise house- 
work to its true position of dignity so long as we have the present ser- 
vant class, therefore our first thought must be to help along their 
tendency to become scarce, and to encourage the formation of a pro- 
fessional type of men and women who will come to our homes by the 
hour, or day, as one goes to one's office." 

But how was this to be done? Only "by eliminating drudgery, 
the unpleasant methods of doing certain tasks and the long hours of 
labor under slave contract methods." 

Cheap and poor labor is the prominent cause for clinging to such crude instru- 
ments as, for instance, the scrubbing brush and the wash board, not to mention the 
ill-adapted wood and coal stove, and the dark cellar cold storage. Men in their 
industries have progressed enormousl)' further in rapid ways of accomplishment 
and in ease of operation, including results in new and wonderful fields. 

If women are to become useful, efifective, and independent citizens of the com- 
munity, or state, they must first prove themselves domestically independent and 
not weaklings, living under the fear of the cook's giving notice, and the inability to 
make both ends meet. 

267 



268 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

Mrs. Pattison resolved from the first on an extensive use of labor- 
saving appliances, especially electrical, and an application of the new 
principles of business efficiency. She says, to quote again, 

There are in this country and England thousands of patents of labor-saving de- 
vices. Some of them are excellent. A great many of them are no use at all. The 
same idea may be contained in several mechanical inventions of different makers. 
Half may be expensive and useless, and the other half just what women want. It is 
our business to find out the good things and steer the women away from the bad 
ones. A great deal of the indifference among women to labor saving devices comes 
from the fact that pretty nearly everybody has been cheated with them at one time 
or another. 

As the first step in her experiment Mrs. Pattison dismissed her three 
servants and with the wage and board money saved she installed new 
and modem conveniences, first in the kitchen, then in the laundry, and 
finally through the entire house. At the end of the first year she owned 
a dishwasher, a washing-machine, a vacuum cleaner, a fireless cooker, 
electric irons, and many other modern appliances, "not the least useful 
of which is the dustless mop." 

All over the house she uses waxed floors and rugs. She has replaced 
the ordinary kitchen table top by glass and marble, she has eliminated 
all heavy and hard-to-clean cooking utensils, even though they be 
heirlooms. A good sized pantry has been made over into a kitchenette 
and here most of the cooking is done with the help of a small gas stove 
and a fireless cooker. An electric motor, known in the family as 
"James the Great" performs a variety of tasks; it polishes the silver, 
grinds the coffee, freezes ice-cream, grates cheese or chocolate, chops 
meat, does the family washing, and as it can be wheeled about to 
any part of the house, it runs the vacuum cleaner. A gas incinerator 
for garbage is a favorite with Mrs. Pattison. It does its work in the 
cellar to which the garbage descends by a tube from the sink, burning 
a bushel of garbage at a cost of three cents for gas. By the help of 
these various appliances and by a strict cutting down of needless work, 
as the substitution of paper tablecloths, napkins, and towels for the 
linen formerly used, Mrs. Pattison has been able to do the work in this 
large country house for a family of four and many occasional guests 
with the exception of the washing of bed linen and shirts; she has 
" brought down the cost of everything, even the coal for the furnace, 
lived better, and did not have a day's sickness to record." She has 
even given dinner parties to twenty guests unaided by outside help. 



IQI2] A Household Experiment Station 269 

Table service is made possible by the use of a " Susan," a small table 
top placed in the center of the dining table and revolving on a pivot 
placed on a pedestal. This may hold salad or dessert or whatever is 
needed during the meal, so that each person may help himself in turn. 
There is also in use a wheeled double-decker cart which holds many 
dishes together with the electric heater for making coflfee, boiling eggs, 
etc. Mrs. Pattison is even willing to give her schedule for a day : 

Our train service makes it necessary to breakfast at seven o'clock. Having 
arranged the table as much as possible the night before, we are ready for breakfast 
in the morning in from two to fifteen minutes. Fruit, cereal, eggs if desired, with 
toast and coffee prepared at the table on electric devices, constitute the meal. The 
coffee is filtered into a thermos jug and remains hot until any hour it may be desired. 
Such a meal, served for four, is readili' cleared away in from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes. Taking a few minutes to run over the floors each morning with a dustless 
mop reduces special cleaning times, which are again minimized by the use of a 
vacuum cleaner,on no especial day, but whenever found convenient. The beds have 
by this time been aired for an hour or more and are ready for spreading. It really 
takes one person just four minutes to make the ordinary bed. The tidying-up 
process is made simple by cultivating the habits of the family so that each looks 
after his own bath-tub and basin, clothes, etc. A forethought for the evening meal 
as to soup, meat, or vegetables, by putting them hot into the fireless cooker, made it 
practical for me to take the 9:15 train to any part of the state when necessary, or to 
attend to Federation work accumulated at home. A simple luncheon was left 
ready to serve — salad, soup, and cold meat left from the night before. Upon the 
arrival of the evening train, if I had spent the entire day away from home, it was a 
simple matter to take the dinner, thoroughly and deliciously cooked, from the fire- 
less cooker. 

This is a record of which any woman may well be proud, but Mrs. 
Pattison has not been content to solve her own problem. She offered 
a small four-roomed house on her place for a true experiment station for 
the New Jersey Federation where all manner of appliances could be 
tried out, and to the formal opening of this building last June came 
hundreds of club women from all parts of the state. We understand 
that the special work of this station is to be fully described in a book 
soon to be issued. Such a book will of course furnish the detailed 
statements, estimates, time schedules, and costs that one cannot expect 
from popular lectures and articles which now form our source of 
knowledge of this very interesting experiment. 



AFTER SOME YEARS OF EXPERIMENTATION. WHAT 

IS THE EDUCATIONAL AIM, METHOD, AND 

ACCOMPLISHMENT IN COLLEGE COURSES 

IN DOMESTIC ART? 

The following is a partial report of the round table on domestic art 
which constituted a portion of the program of the meeting of the 
American Home Economics Association held in Washington, D. C, 
December 27-30, 191 1. Miss Agnes Houston Craig, director of domes- 
tic art. College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas, was leader of the 
round table, and opened the program with the following report and 
recommendations on domestic art education: 

REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS ON DOMESTIC 
ART EDUCATION. 

Miss Agnes Houston Craig. 

College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

The purpose of this discussion is to suggest a more definite and 
unified conception of (i) the scope of domestic art education 
together with its aim, method, and accomplishment; (2) its relative 
values and vital relationship to the general subject of Home Economics; 
(3) the prerequisite training that should be required for entrance to 
college courses of this kind; (4) the content of a well-balanced college 
course in domestic art; and (5) its cultural value. 

There seems to be some confusion in the average mind as to just 
what is meant by the term domestic art. After consulting any stand- 
ard dictionary the meaning will be obvious, also the fact that the terms 
domestic art, home art, household art are synonymous. Therefore, the 
subject matter of any course so designated should logically include all 
phases of art education as it is related to home construction, the 
creating and maintaining of a desirable home atmosphere, and home 
activities, educational and social. 

In too many of our higher schools domestic art is represented through 
merely technical instruction in sewing, dressmaking, and millinery. 
Such technical courses in these three subjects alone have but slight 

270 



igi2] College Courses in Domestic Art 271 

educational value and together constitute but a minor interest in the 
household arts. 

Contrasted with them the shelter phases of domestic art offer a 
much more important field for investigation and study. This subject- 
matter should include the artistic problems belonging to home archi- 
tecture, landscape gardening as a distinctive home interest as well as 
in its broader relation to the development of more general civic order 
and beauty, interior decoration as a necessary and practical feature of 
economics in home furnishing, textiles in their various uses for fur- 
nishing and clothing, and the vital but too much neglected interests 
that are rightfully classed as "social consumption" or appurtenances 
to the higher life. 

Properly speaking, household art and science should not be divorced 
in education as they so frequently are. Each group has its distinct 
place in the well-organized home, but the household that dwells en- 
tirely on the interests commonly classed as domestic science is just as 
unbalanced as the one that considers esthetics to the exclusion of the 
important problems involved in food and sanitation. 

The application of theoretical training in both groups requires ex- 
pression in some definite form. If this expression or practical applica- 
tion is to be of such character as to result in appreciably elevating 
the general standard of living, physically, intellectually, and spiritu- 
ally, it is necessary that students be prepared to express themselves 
through these mediums by such fundamental training as will con- 
tribute to the intellectual growth that alone makes expression of any 
kind possible. For this reason it is essential to determine definitely 
first, the material out of which our substructure should be built, and 
secondly, the elements entering into the superstructure. 

Home Economics properly includes all phases of household art, 
household science, and household administration. Throughout the 
country domestic science is better organized than domestic art. In 
most colleges a marked differentiation is made in the standard for 
entrance requirements to these different groups of subject matter, 
stricter requirements being exacted of the students electing domestic 
science. From an educational point of view this condition is most 
unjust, for distinguished accompUshment in either line depends on 
much the same kind of preparatory' training. This fundamental drill 
should supply the requisites to expression of any kind; namely accum- 
ulated knowledge born of experience or acquired through study, the 
habit of reflection, and the power to reorganize material. 



272 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

When we take into consideration the modern conception that is 
slowly gaining favor of woman's economic responsibility, it is as neces- 
sary that she be trained to apply consciously and intelligently the rules 
of scientific management to the expenditure of the, income in the house- 
keeping business as that man shall understand the economic laws of 
producing wealth. All the factors properly listed under domestic art 
are of peculiar interest to women and also have a tremendous economic 
significance. 

Let us consider briefly the following propositions in their relation to 
this class of education: 

1. Domestic art education should be built on an economic basis. — In 
general economics we readily recognize man's relation to the great 
activities of production and distribution, but so far few of us have ac- 
knowledged the important function of the home, the so-called woman's 
sphere, on controlling both these fields through the demands created 
by the field of consumption. In the business world systematic man- 
agement and order are essential to any degree of economic wellbeing 
yet how few people seem to relate the parts of home making wnth the 
economic principles involved in other forms of successful business 
management. Indeed home making is a business second to none in 
importance or in the variety of its interests, therefore women should 
consciously understand economic laws as they are applicable to art 
expression and scientific management within the home. 

2. The physical and biological sciences cannot be properly separated 
from it. — Next in importance to her economic consciousness it is nec- 
cessary that women be trained in certain forms of exact knowledge. 
The need of this is threefold; because of the mental training acquired, 
because of the fund of classified knowledge accumulated, and for the 
purpose of developing method in constructive processes. For this 
kind of training the sciences are invaluable and are inseparable from 
the various interests involved in household art; therefore we need 
gradual, solid training along scientific lines, always keeping in mind 
the basic economic idea. But scientific training alone is not suffi- 
cient, which fact brings us to the third proposition: 

3. All constructive expression depeiuis on a thorough knowledge of the 
principles of art. — Again let me repeat that good art is an economic 
asset and that as such it has a vital relationship to the wise expendi- 
ture of the income. All students should have a working knowledge of 
at least freehand drawing, design, and historic ornament as they are 
related to construction before the technical constructive work is at- 
tempted. 



1912] College Courses in Domestic Art 273 

Lack of interest in art training as fundamental to all constructive 
work is a short-sighted policy for two reasons: First, the processes of 
technical education are greatly prolonged, and second, the results with 
few exceptions, explained usually by the presence of native artistic 
feeling, are mediocre. You will frequently hear the excuse made that 
women possessing the artistic temperament cannot be scientifically 
trained. This is not true. The artistic person seldom takes to 
science for the sake of science, but let her realize the application of 
scientific material to the constructive problems of her art and you 
have her profound interest. Moreover it is easier to train the artistic 
temperament in scientific knowledge than it is to give the average 
scientist an artistic temperament. In some of our colleges we are 
putting in chemists to teach cooking — why not put in artists with 
the pre-requisite scientific training to teach household art? 

4. Technical skill should be rather the result of this training than the 
chief aim. — The idea of developing the practical is the keynote to 
much of our inefficient industrial education because of the popular 
narrow conception of what practical education is. In the majority 
of schools technical practice is over-emphasized as practical education 
and is introduced too soon. Constructive processes in the main should 
come last because they depend for successful development on foun- 
dation work leading up to them. How can a student give concrete 
form to an idea when he has not the concept of what he wants to ex- 
press? Yet in much of our industrial education this is what we are 
demanding, and this is why we are often failing in our results. One of 
the reforms most needed is the determining of the proportions of artis- 
tic and scientific training needed in their proper relationships to the 
technique required for constructive work. At present there is too 
little of the former and too much of the latter. 

5. The cultural and social value of training in domestic art. — Charac- 
ter building is to a large extent developed within the home, the atmo- 
sphere of which reflects the sum total of the individual habits or the 
family. If this phase of Home Economics were more carefully con- 
sidered, home training through rightly directed acti\dties and social 
occupations would tend to eradicate many of the present social evils 
that debase or mar our social fabric. Social reform begun with the 
child must be more effectual than the veneer of reform that may be 
applied later. Here we have tremendous opportunities for the thought- 
ful directing and conservation of social and moral energy through the 
understanding of the relation of esthetic expression to the spirit of play, 



274 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

as they form themselves into various phases of social experience. The 
idea of "social consumption" describes this field and suggests its 
economic significance. It includes the interests of general education ; 
music, the greatest social unifier, literature, games, art as in the form 
of pictures, entertainment, travel, gardening, and outdoor life. These 
activities are entirely practical, for they materially raise the general 
standard of right living, and the direction of them added to the more 
material phases of domestic art means that women who administer 
the affairs of the home efficiently and nobly must have comprehensive 
vision and trained minds both economically and socially. 

As a matter of fact the field of domestic art is so inclusive of prac- 
tical and cultural knowledge that it is hard to know where to draw the 
line. For this very reason it seems deplorable that so many schools 
do not make more of the opportunities offered; therefore we shall take 
this opportunity to suggest some criticisms noted in an investigation 
of the work as it is being done at the present time in many institutions. 

It has been my pleasure to investigate carefully the work of a variety 
of domestic art departments throughout the country. A question- 
naire sent out has furnished much information from thirty institutions 
of which five were universities, thirteen colleges, and twelve normal 
schools of good standing. These institutions are distributed through- 
out twenty states and all list domestic art courses. 

In the first place, most of them make a marked differentiation in the 
educational value of the domestic science and art courses and almost 
without exception the former is better established. 

With reference to entrance requirements the qualifications are by no 
means adequate. Of the thirty only ten require any physical or 
natural science for entrance while nine make such subjects optional. 
In history and elementary economics only five require the latter and 
ten the former, while three make economics optional. In the funda- 
mental art subjects, six require freehand drawing, one makes it an 
option, three require mechanical drawing, and only one requires any 
knowledge of the principles of design. In technical trainin gone requires 
an elementary knowledge of sewing. 

Going a step further and considering the actual domestic art courses 
as they are formulated, we find that of these same thirty institutions 
only nine require any natural science and only eight any physical 
science as part of the course. Only five require general economics, 
nine give parallel art training, and all emphasize the technical work of 
sewing. In this enlightened age ten, or 2>2>\ P^r cent, of these schools 



I9I2] 



College Courses in Domestic Art 



275 



still teach the model system, and I notice one that gives a course which 
"deals with the history and manufacture of needles, pins, machines, 
scissors, and tape measures." We often wonder why people express 
belief that domestic art has no educational value. Right here we 
we have one reason. So often time is spent on non-essentials and the 
material really worth while is ignored. When we are studying chem- 
istry do we first investigate the history of the test tube, and in domes- 
tic science do we give a course in the histor>' of the carving knife and 
other implements used? If people feel an indi\ddual interest in these 
articles and if they are fairly intelligent they can investigate such items 
independently and not consume valuable class time in this way. 

Another point that I wish to make is that at present there seems to 
be no definite agreement, with reasonable modification of course, as to 
the characteristic domestic art courses and the pre-requisites that 
should lead up to each. For the sake of clearness I will indicate the 
points under this head in outline form. 



Status of domestic art instruction in 30 institutions, with recommendations as to 

pre-requisites. 



SUBJECTS TAUGHT. 



Hand and machine sewing 

a. No pre-reqiiisites. 

b. Elementary textiles, freehand drawing, and first principles of 

design should be pre-requisite. 
Dressmaking 

a. Pre-requisites listed: 

Color, drawing, design, textiles, decorative needlework .... 

Drawing, watercolor, costume design 

Textiles 

-Applied design 

Drawing 

b. Art work that should be pre-requisite: 

Drawing, design, color, textiles, decorative needlework, 
historic ornament, costume design. 
Textiles 

a. Very elementary 

b. Chemistry and microscopic 

c. Wea\'ing 

d. Basketry alone 

e. Develop laundry methods and theories for application (good 

progressive step) 



30 



30 



13 
6 
8 
6 

5 



276 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



Status of domestic art instruction in jo institutions, with recommendations as to 

pre-requisites — Con. 



SUBJECTS TAUGHT. 



12. 

13- 

14. 

IS- 
16. 

17- 
18. 
19. 



Millinery 

a. Pre-requisites listed: 

Color and design 

Elementary sewing 

Tailoring — (absurd) 

b. Good work in millinery depends absolutely on good, con 

scious feeling for artistic expression. 

Methods and practice teaching 

Pattern drafting 

a. In this age of good mechanical patterns pattern drafting, 
except for trades courses, is undesirable. 
Reading and adaptation of patterns 

a. A good step which should be more generally followed. 

Home furnishing 

Interior decoration 

. Decorative needlework 

a. One requires millinery as a pre-requisite (why?). 

b. Only five require previous art training, though good work 

in millinery depends on art feeling for good form and colors. 
. Tailoring — (belongs in trades courses and not in general domestic 

art courses.) 

. Costume design 

. Parallel art 

. History of costume 

Household economics and management 

Home architecture 

History of ornament and art 

Landscape gardening 

Social consumption 



14 
13 



II 

7 

IS 



A SUGGESTIVE OUTLINE. 



Domestic or household art is interested chiejfly in two of the three 
fundamental needs of man; namely, shelter and clothing. These two 
main groups may be best studied in their natural divisions of organ- 
ized interests such as landscape gardening, home architecture, home 
decoration, home furnishing, social consumption, and administration 

To point out the educational \ alue of such study and the various 
phases of interest embodied in it let us observe the following outline 
which i.'i merely suggestive and not by any means complete : 



I 





TJ 




C3 1 




o 




, 




a 




3 




-a 








> 








'•3 




a 




•— • 




u 




.-:i 




> ja 








u 




bO 




fl 








-w 




a 




^ M 




Q..S 








cd 




•o.> 












flS 




l-s 




V c4 




^ 




3 « 




^ ^ 




i. o 








2-a 




o d 




u rt 






&0 

» 








R 


. ed 




Design 
of pi 




o 






a 






•w 


3 


p 






3ii 








••-' _ 


>»i 


o C 




^.2 i 








^- rt 




>>■" 




2 a 




o " 1 




ea 




.s-S = 




cd (d 1 




S 1 




o 1 








fov 




3 13 




•3 « > 




Pp c « 




1 Sa 




1-^ i 




o 1 








en 4I1 








a, 0) 




>..ti ! 




::-s 




oS 




c2 




4) 




a eii 




0, w 




■S . 




13 j2 4> 




> S 3 

4> M 3 




Q 



S c 



c 0) a 

<U •- 4) 

a o-a 

u in u 
bO > 

S ^^ S 
2^ 8 



.&• 
'u 

a 
'C 

a 

3 

■!-> 
U 

3 
hi 
■4-1 
CO 
ui 

a 



I 3« 

C\ a 2 






c 
a 

<n 
bo 

a 



cd <d 
4) •" 



M<n 
.^ .b (J 

S c a 
U 



.2«2 

OS 3 



cd 








> 












u 




od 








cd 




•0 






















a 




• 








■>-> u 




_oa-- 




4J — 




»; 




m 




«> 












V 




u 









u 




04 


d 




•c 




a ! 




■w 




k< 




Cd ' 


r 


"o 


to 


d 1 
.2 




3 « 


3 


at 


'13 

R 


< 


en J 


e 


d 





1 


'♦* 


•5 ! 





«* 1 






<s 


u 


^ 


TJ 


Ci 


en 

d 







fn 


u 




a 








cd 




V 




w 


a"„ ! 




for 
ou 
al. 




f good 
d van 
materi 




^cd 






a uT" 




cono 
colo 
type 






w i 


d 




° • 1 








Relat 
types 
type 










4) Cd 








>.3 3 1 




u 4-> 4-> : 




•— 1 












Id^S 




u 








ti cd 




< 



-i-) <n bO 

ti o S > 
«»d-2- 

O 4) 

•5 a 2 
y atn-S 

Jd cd cd P 



.y tn 
<n 4) 

11 

o . 

d 3 
.2td 

(A U 

o:s 

IH 

Oi 



in a 

§•5 -3 

■ ^ '•-■ d 

in _ 3 

a -a 

X u, O 
<u cd <J 
•a — T3 
C.2 O 



.y cd d 

■5 ^ K ui 
inTJ d 4> 

^ -« a 
°^.s a 

O in *J O 

■^ .'5 " 
^ o '5, d 

13 *j in .3 



d o 
d 

■ . in O 

ti-- a 

a 3 

u . in 

ass 



■= «id 

O d*0 
Q, O O 



"s a is 

it" 



H 



00 g 

in rt 

3u^ a . 

CO tL 

x-i cd en ,d 
>, u en o 

4-> cd o M 
en tj 55 od 





bb 1 




d 








> 












>. ' 












u 1 




"O 













0) 




bo 




cd 




d 




cd 




a 




v-i 









in 




T3 *j 




d 




43 <u 




t; a , 




:^ 




d rt 









a>: 




^ (JO . 




ni.^ 




«.ti 




"Z! T3 




cd 1 


s 


Conserv 
time, 
comm 


•S 


v 1 


$: 


y a i 


•^ 

'=>; 






4j Cd 




'u ti 




in d 




4> 




T3 a . 

2 <u in 




bOo 




ouseh 
mana 
chani 




X 




u 








4) 








4> 




a 









CJ 




d 













en 




a 




(U 








x> 













d. 




princi- 
c laws, 
home. 








^ a-s 




00^ 




s a 




« 8.2 




"O^ 3 1 




Ji 0.- 






& S " 




0.^ d 1 




d ahH 




M ' 





a « 




-M 




M V cd 








« a g 




V} •.- .^ 




^ cd 




u is 




i*— y «j 




13 ° . 




.— •- 1) 




S.--2S 




ppro 
join 
leal 

inco 




< 




1.1 




ja & 




v 




- en 




bO 




d 4> 




•-" d 




^•" 




cd.d 




ss^ 




dS 




4J'0 y 




'I-' d -S 




td ««" 




0. 








d >i"d 




pri; 
cole 
ctio 




3 




ti oi! 




cd d Vl 




:= d 




«-, 




c " 








ation 
iples 
tc. to 


^' 


13 4> 


R 


(4 


H 


>,>^ 





c* >-. 


I-) 


Ogy 

otai 
nist 


u 




0-^ 5 




•s -ja 




phyi 
iene 
ilec 






bC*J 




>^ J1 




>;-«ii 




2 d d 






cd cd 








S 




-§.§ 




C ->-> 




•, P 
due 
ion, 




aa 








U 3 




dv« 5> 




— d 




jj 8 
> «i " 1 




elati 
lem: 
and 






Pi 




T3 




d 




ed 




en 




£, 








3 




K 




W 




♦J 




°§ 




b5 




55 




-<-■ 




en 








s 



277 



278 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

The ethical and cultural results should be to raise the general stand- 
ard of living through appreciation, trained taste in the laws of order, 
beauty, and economics, efl&cient living through the power to exercise 
scientific judgment, and put it into practice through scientific man- 
agement on matters of shelter and clothing. 

HOUSEHOLD ART FROM THE STANDPOINT OF 
ECONOMICS. 

Miss Gertrude Van Hoesen. 

University of Chicago. 

The plea for the introduction of a course in household art must 
be made as general as possible if it is to be accepted by the faculties 
of our colleges. In presenting this plea we may distinguish between 
three types of economic activity: The first, in the narrow^ sense of 
the producer who makes a commodity for the market; the second, 
that broader type which occupies the attention of the distributor who 
handles the finished product and sees that it is brought to the atten- 
tion of the consumer; and the third and more comprehensive economic 
interest belonging to the field of the consumer. The breadth of this 
last class can perhaps be most emphatically brought out by the fact 
that the producer and the distributor are consumers also. In the 
matter of textiles this general class includes every member of society. 

This general analysis of the economic interests which attach to 
the textile industries make it clear that if we are to organize a broad 
general course for college students we must push into the foreground 
the economic interest of the consumer. The interest of this class is 
first of all in the quality of the goods which he consumes and in the 
proper service which different types of goods may render him. This 
knowledge of quality and service is by no means easy of acquisition 
by the modern consumer. He is so far removed from the source of 
supply that he is not aware of the essential characteristics of the 
fabrics which he inspects. He needs to have methods of investi- 
gation which will make it possible for him to examine the fabrics 
minutely and effectively with regard to their composition and dur- 
ability. It is interesting to note at this point that the broad inter- 
ests of the consumer can never be properly conserved until he has 
acquired in some measure an insight into the processes that are known 
to the producer. Because society has separated these two types of 



1912] College Courses in Domestic Art 279 

activity, our educational system must supply a scientific means of 
bringing back to the consumer the knowledge which he needs for his 
own protection. 

If we begin with the general interest of the consumer as the justi- 
fication for our standpoint of attack, we lay at the same time a broad 
foundation for later vocational specialization. If the student, in addi- 
tion to protecting himself in the purchase of goods, wishes to become 
an intelligent consumer and producer, he has only to continue in 
more detail the type of study to which he has already been intro- 
duced. 

Thus far we have been discussing what might be described as the 
direct educational advantages of a general course in household art. 
There is another and perhaps broader consideration which would 
justify such a course in the interest of the general study of economics. 
There is no body of concrete material which is more available than 
that which would be presented in a course in textiles for the general 
study of all economic relations. We have come to recognize in all 
our educational acti\dties the general principle that the student must 
comprehend abstract relations by first mastering certain typical 
concrete relations. The various matters which have been discussed 
in earlier paragraphs need to be exemplified in a concrete way if they 
are to be understood by the student. The interdependence of the 
consumer and the distributer, the necessities of legal protection of 
the consumer in his relations to the producer, can be brought out 
in a very definite and concrete way as one studies the problem of 
clothing himself, economically and satisfactorily. Hence a general 
course in textiles, as one phase of household art, becomes the medium 
through which the student may be introduced to all sorts of economic 
relations. 

Most of the textbooks on economics now used in college classes 
use illustrations which appeal chiefly to men. This is undoubtedly 
one of the reasons why college women manifest, in general, less inter- 
est in this subject than do the men. If the study of fabrics could be 
made the basis of a course in economics it would serve to arouse a 
broad general interest in that science. One might very properly 
advocate the use of this material for both men and women. 

Having thus outlined in an abstract way the advantages of such 
a course in household art as an introduction to both the practical 
relations of life and the general study of economics, we may suggest 
a few typical examples of the lessons which may be formulated to 
make up such a course. 



28o The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

The demand for pure fabrics made from the four principal fibers 
of commerce, wool, cotton, silk, and flax, has long since outgrown the 
world's supply. It is a well known fact that if all the wool produced 
in the United States yearly was divided equally among its people, 
each person would receive less than a square yard of cloth. It is 
therefore as well to recognize the necessity for substitutions and 
by means of investigation become intelligent as to the qualities requi- 
site for specific purposes. The desirability for such investigation 
may be apparent from the following occurrences which constantly 
happen in our daily contact with fabrics: (i) Dark spots appear 
on some worsted fabrics after a few days wearing; (2) the follow- 
ing fabrics have a tendency to tear very easily: — (a) Cheap India 
linen, (b) white linen for a waist at $1.00 per yard, (c) woolen dress 
materials from 75 cents to $1.00 per yard, (d) light colored silks; 
(3) (a) the white spots drop out of blue and white calicoes and lawns; 
(b) the white spots drop out of black and white checked silk; (c) 
the spots drop out of dotted muslins; (4) silk splits on the folds; 
(5) broadcloths tear easily and serges do not; and (6) gray wool fabrics 
generally fade, even when expensive. 

Most of the processes in the manufacture of fabrics from the kind 
and preparation of fibers to the general practices in finishing would 
be required to account for the above which are our daily experiences 
with textile materials. Space will not allow me to answer all of them 
but let us consider No. 5 briefly: — "Broadcloth tears easily and serges 
do not." Here we have two cloths which illustrate the fundamental 
differences between woolen and worsted industries. Broadcloth, 
the typical woolen cloth, is a cloth made in the finishing. Serge, a 
typical worsted cloth is a cloth made in the loom. The understanding 
of these types lies in a knowledge of the manufacture of wool. 

From the preceding paragraph it may readily be inferred that the 
concrete experiences which are necessary to form a basis for intelli- 
gent consumption must offer sufficient experimental work with fabrics 
to establish skill in the identification of standard materials. It must 
include, first, microscopic and chemical examinations which will 
result in the ability to (i) identify fibers, (2) detect and identify 
adulteration, and (3) understand the structure of fabrics and its 
relation to desirable qualities. In the second place it must include 
the mechanics of construction consisting of (i) hand sewing, (2) 
machine sewing, and (3) drafting. 

With this body of experience as a basis we come to the larger eco- 



1912] College Courses in Domestic Art 281 

nomic problems through a study of the textile industries. In this 
we come to the study of a particular type of organization, the factory, 
which we shall approach as we approach the study of any organiza- 
tion such as a bank or a corporation. We study a bank as an eco- 
nomic unit, producing, exchanging, and consuming the products of Its 
particular activities, and its activities in relation to other units of 
different kinds. We therefore take up the study of these industries 
in the same way. We begin with the location of factories for special 
fabrics which we can only understand through a study of commercial 
geography and industrial history. It is necessary to know the evolu- 
tion of the textile industries, its relation to general history, and the 
development of other important industries, in order to understand 
fully the relation between the present manufacturer and consumer. 

In studying the factory as an economic unit, we discuss the history 
of industrial organization, beginning with the family, the work of 
different members of the family, and the gradual withdrawal of the 
work from the family to the factory based on the change from hand 
to power machinery, the work of women and children in the factories, 
the effect of this change on the home, the growth of factory towns, 
the gradual change in the character of the workers in the factories, 
immigration, wages, legal protection for workers, etc. 

As a producing and distributing unit we tiy to understand the 
relation between the manufacturer and his supply of raw materials; 
the effect of this supply upon the processes of manufacture; the mar- 
kets; the protection of industries as illustrated in the United States 
and other countries; the effect of wages upon his output; the relation 
of invention to the de^•elopment of business; and many other questions 
which effect the consumer. In this connection there is another type 
of economic activity which makes a distinct demand upon our inter- 
est, although it is in reality but a part of the larger question, i.e., 
the manufacture of ready-made clothing. With our present social or- 
ganization ready-made clothing will consvune a part of the income of 
every individual. The same standards of judgment in selection of 
materials and in the training in construction are applicable to this 
problem. 

In conclusion, whether we believe in technical education is not 
the great question before us. It is rather whether we feel and realize 
the complexities of modern conditions and the consequent necessity 
for scientific methods of work. If once Ave feel this, the introduction 
of courses in household art, Home Economics, and definite forms of 
technical education will be accepted in our colleges without question. 



282 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

DOMESTIC ART. ESTHETICALLY CONSIDERED. 
Miss Mary Wynne Shackleford. 

Director oj Fine Arts, College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Without attempting discussion concerning the ultimate nature 
of the beautiful, it may be affirmed at once that the beautiful is 
a phase of the good, and since we cannot live without God (good) in 
the world, neither should we attempt to live without the beautiful. 
One reason for the disagreement of authorities on a definition of the 
beautiful is that its phases are so multitudinous. There is a beauty 
of tone, of speech, of manner, a beauty in the well-ordered home 
where economic fitness goes hand in hand with the esthetic. One 
may exist without such influence, just as one may exist without appre- 
ciation of the humorous, but such a life is incomplete. 

The teacher whose province it is to teach, more especially within 
the sphere of the esthetic, frequently finds it uphill work. In some 
schools, entrance upon the study of domestic art means beginning 
immediately creative expression. Students come, perhaps, without 
preparation, but they are ushered into the course as if fully developed 
and equipped. 

With a view to obtaining information with regard to pre-requisite 
training in art for students entering upon a course in Home Economics, 
also as to art work for graduation, thirty representative institutions 
were investigated. These schools, with but six exceptions, require 
no pre-requisite art training for admission to courses in domestic 
art. Six demand satisfactory freehand drawing and hand sewing, 
one design, while two universities report "we do not teach the art side." 
Another says "we stress the technical side." Six institutions give 
fairly good courses in design and applied art, but only one of those 
investigated gives an adequate course including drawing, design, 
historic ornament, lectures on historic phases, esthetics of form and 
color, interior decoration, and costume design. We also find work 
in the following subjects offered in domestic art courses: Household 
decoration, basketry, leather work, block-printing, stenciling, dress- 
making, millinery, etc. These subjects are catalogued for the most 
part as applied art, but are usually given without previous training 
in design. In none of the curriculums investigated, does one find 
adequate pre-requisite art training demanded for admission to the 
courses. 



1912] College Courses in Dotnestic Art 283 

A knowledge of general history, of art history, historic ornament, 
a working knowledge of the principles of composition and design, 
an appreciation of color harmony, together with practical work in 
physics and chemistry, should be regarded as fundamental, and should 
precede and not parallel courses in domestic art. 

Our preparatory training is too specific. The acquiring of cul- 
tural and informational knowledge is made too subordinate to the 
acquiring of technical skill. 

If, as Professor Raymond tells us, "The art product is traceable 
to man's mental experiences and the elements of which it is con- 
structed are forms borrowed from nature, and the method of con- 
struction and composition is a process of elaboration," how can the 
student, with inadequate fundamental training, be expected to have 
had sufiicient mental experience to furnish material for elaboration? 
Rather is the student admitted to a course of study involving cre- 
ative expression, with hand, eye, and perceptions untrained, as pre- 
pared to solve the problems which confront him as is the student of 
the scale of C prepared to go on the concert stage. 

In literary work one must have, in addition to natural capacity, 
an amount of mental furnishing; just so is this true in the field of 
esthetic expression. One cannot represent in line, shade, or color 
what one has no conception of. The literary romancer, even, is a 
transposer from the real. In all creative subjects such transposition 
is obligatory. 

With a well rounded course of study, the student would not only 
be prepared to create, but create something worth while. It may be 
argued that, if necessary time is given to acquire this fundamental 
information, the age of production will be advanced, but would it 
not be well to give time to a course of study that will so greatly increase 
eflSciency? Would it not be well for the various institutions giving 
courses in domestic art to unite in demanding as a pre-requisite funda- 
mental training along art lines, looking forward toward a standard- 
ization of the requirements for admission? 

Education, as the etymology of the word implies, is to bring out, 
to educe capacities, this being accomplished by a system of eclectic- 
ism of the fit, and an elimination of the unfit, in thought and action 
or construction. In default of this educative system, the universal 
impulse to action may run more or less riot in the field of possibilities, 
but wnth proper training in fundamental principles, the foundation is 
laid for right thinking, and through right thinking, for right living. 



284 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Bacon says the man who builds his house in an unattractive local- 
ity puts himself in prison. This being accepted, it follows that one's 
house and immediate attaching space, howsoever attractive, do not 
constitute home. One's first and primary affections naturally center 
in the "house" and its immediate companionship, but the civic en- 
vironment is also one's own, to be happy in and to assist in making. 
When Bacon wrote, every English hamlet represented a restricted 
unit, but since his time conditions have so broadened that the line 
of environment is no longer defined. As in the well ordered man, 
there must abide a pride of personality, a pride of race, so must there 
be a pride of nationality. In going over this broad land, from one 
city of beautiful structures to another, there comes to the right kind 
of an American a feeling of pride and ownership. There is an exul- 
tant consciousness of being a share-holder in what is beheld. This 
broad land is home. 

What a scope for enterprise this outlook presents to ethical and 
esthetical parents and teachers! 

Civilization in this country was not in a day created and set up 
by present incumbents, but has been largely transmitted. We enjoy 
much that cost us neither thought nor effort, thus bringing us in 
debt. This debt cannot be paid directly, we cannot even express 
gratitude to the transmitters, but, as nearly as our capacities will 
admit, we may pay this debt to each other and to the oncoming 
citizenship. 

DOMESTIC ART METHODS OF TECHNICAL 
INSTRUCTION. 

Miss Ruth Wilmot. 

Pratt Institute. 

Teaching can be \dtally interesting or a stupid grind. It can be 
great fun or hopeless drudgery, according to the way we go about it, 
and it is often in the small points that the difference lies. As it is 
quite impossible in a twenty-minute paper on methods to deal at all 
comprehensively ^\\^h the subject, I have chosen for discussion three 
specific salient points: First, the importance of the content of the 
student's mind; second, the necessity of a judicious and balanced 
choice between formal instruction and indi^•idual attention; and 
third, the relation of methods to the acquisition of technical speech. 



1912] College Courses in Domestic Art 285 

As to the importance of the content of the student's mind, in the 
last few years the question of methods has been so strongly empha- 
sized that many times they have become more or less cut and dried 
recipes which obtained results good but necessarily limited, while 
the necessity of the intuitive understanding by the instructor of the 
workings of the student's minds has been more or less overlooked. 
In the effort to improve her methods, the instructor goes into class 
to give a lesson with a carefully chosen plan in mind for its develop- 
ment. She is so concerned with the importance of the thing she is 
going to teach and the way she has decided to teach it that she forgets 
to feel the pulse of her class, as it were, and adjust and change her 
excellent plan to suit the needs and come within the comprehension 
of her students. Instead of concentrating on what is going on in 
the students' minds and determining whether they are comprehend- 
ing the information which she is giving, she is thinking only of the 
subject she is going to teach and its development in a way that seems 
logical. She does not realize that what seems logical to her may 
seem quite the opposite to her students, nor that the subject which 
she understands so thoroughly, may be to them quite new and com- 
plex. To make it clear to them she must exert her imagination and 
look at it from their point of view. The details seem so simple to 
her of making a button hole, of getting the two sleeves for different 
arms each in its right armhole in the proper way, of making one sleeve 
look like the other, or of making the bias binding on the brim of a 
hat lie flat, that she can scarcely realize that her students find them 
just as puzzling and trying as she did when she first undertook them. 
So she tries to give instructions without laying the proper foundation, 
without getting together ideas in their minds to which to tie up their 
new ideas. She uses words and terms which mean nothing to the 
uninitiated student. She neglects to e.xplain the reason for things 
because to her they seem obvious. She often entirely forgets to 
explain a few very minor details, and as a result the student very 
naturally makes a mistake and the instructor is surprised to find a girl 
so lacking in common sense. 

If the instructor could go into class with her subject matter so 
thoroughly in hand that she could put her entire attention on the 
content of the students' minds, she would undoubtedly avoid many 
unfortunate mistakes. To put it in terms of psychology she should 
concern herself more with the apperceptive mass of her student. It 
requires a great deal of intuition and quick wit to get at the students' 



286 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

point of view in the very beginning of the lesson and let that deter- 
mine the method of development of the subject. The teacher who 
is versatile enough to change her line of attack to suit the occasion 
gets into her work a vigor and vitality which she could never attain 
by following a prearranged plan, no matter how logical it might be. 

This same intuition or ability to look at the work from a student's 
point of view serves to warn the instructor of the right psychological 
moment to give the encouragement which a student needs to get over 
a difficult place. As a general rule constructive work for the beginner 
is done under rather high nervous tension. Failure to recognize and 
relieve this tension may bring about lamentable results. If we could 
call to mind the way we ourselves worked to get one side of that 
evening gown to look like the other or how hard it was to twist those 
wretched little tie wires tight in just the right place, I feel quite cer- 
tain we would have distinct recollection of tired backs, flushed, burn- 
ing cheeks, and cramped hands. Many of our students are feeling 
just as we did way back in that time when we were learning how. 
A little relaxation at such times is invaluable. Perhaps all the student 
needs to relieve this tension is to clear the table, wash her hands, 
get a drink, or rest her eyes by looking out of the window for a moment. 
Sometimes it would be better for her to put away that difficult piece 
of work which she has struggled so hard over and take up something 
else. After she is rested and her eyes and mind are fresh she can go 
back to the difficult thing and get it right. 

There are times, too, when work gets in such a hopeless muddle that 
the student scarcely has the courage to tackle it. A very little help, 
sometimes only the trimming off of ragged edges or putting in a pin 
or two, may give her the necessary impetus to begin again and get 
it done. Students are very apt to "putter" and fuss around these 
difficult bits of work instead of attacking and finishing them. It 
is often a great temptation to the instructor to avoid the student 
who gets her work into a hopeless looking mess and to help the one 
who is working successfully to put on those finishing touches which 
are so easy and agreeable to do. This is not only unfair to the student 
in trouble but to the successful worker, for she is deprived of the 
great fun of doing the effective and interesting thing. She may not 
do it so well as her teacher, but nevertheless she should have the 
experience and fun of doing it herself and of doing it the best she can. 

There is of course in every class the other extreme of the nervous 
student, the listless one who sits back on the end of her spine. Here 



1912] College Courses in Domestic Art 287 

too the right kind of encouragement is most valuable, for it may 
furnish the necessary- stimulus to more xagorous work. 

This study of individual student needs and the experimenting in 
methods which comes as the result of the recognition of these needs 
makes teaching an immensely interesting business. The instructor 
begins to get very enthusiastic, and as a natural result she communi- 
cates her enthusiasm to her students and her teaching acquires the 
vigor and vitality necessary to good constructive work. We all know 
that we do our best work only when we have joy in the doing. We 
may do good work without enthusiasm for it, but it is not our best 
unless we love it. Interest and pleasure in doing things increase 
concentration and a gain in concentration is always a gain in efficiency. 

To sum up the first point: More careful attention to the content 
of the students' minds results in more successful adaptation of sub- 
ject matter and method to students' capabilities, the understanding 
of, and so the ability to help, the student who needs encouragement, 
and increased interest on the instructor's part resulting in greater 
enthusiasm in the class. 

The second point is the question of the judicious balance and choice 
between formal instruction and indi\ddual attention. This presents 
many interesting problems. Formal class demonstrations are very 
valuable in giving general ideas, or a general view of a problem as a 
whole, but as a means of giving definite directions for working, the 
method has many drawbacks. 

The greatest difficulty we all experience in doing things is not in 
understanding what the result should look like, but in grasping the 
way in which we are going to get this result, how to manage our tools, 
how to hold our material. 

In giving a class demonstration as to directions for work, the in- 
structor is often obliged to use her hands and hold her work in an 
unnatural and cramped position in order that all the students in the 
class may see what she is doing. In consequence they get a good 
idea of what the result should be, but a very awkard and clumsy idea 
of how to attain this result. Then they go to work in the most in- 
convenient way possible, the instructor interested in results fails to 
see and correct improper methods of attaining them, and the student 
acquires a faulty technique. 

Again when a class demonstration is given, the students as a rule 
lay down their work and give their entire attention to the instructor. 
When they go back to work they often find to their great chagrin 



288 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

that the directions which but a moment ago seemed so clear to them 
are only very vague and hazy in their minds. They find they can- 
not go on without special attention from the teacher. If they could 
have had their work in their hands and imitated her as she gave the 
directions, they would not have found this difl&culty. Such imita- 
tion, however, is not often practical. 

When imitation is not possible, the student's need of individual 
attention can be met by the use of illustrative material accessible to 
the class throughout the lesson and showing each step in the develop- 
ment of the problem. 

Class demonstrations as directions for working are of value only 
as they are accompanied by adequate illustrative material, or as they 
allow the students to do the work with the instructor as she gives 
the directions. When it is impossible to prepare such material or 
practical for students to work with the instructor, better results are 
obtained by demonstrating to the class in groups small enough to 
enable the instructor to give individual attention to each student 
and to see that she goes to work in the best way and goes at it imme- 
diately. 

The third and last point which I wish to bring out is the matter of 
speed. Speed in process, such speed as has special commercial value, 
is of course almost purely a question of practice and for this reason has 
very little educational value. Because of this and the time limita- 
tions, such speed has little chance for development in schools of college 
grade. There is, however, another kind of speed the development of 
which is a very important function of this school, for it is a kind 
of speed of the utmost educational value, a speed which is the 
result of wise planning of work, decision in judgment, and economy in 
movements. 

Unfortunately the instructor does not often realize the importance 
to the student of practice in planning work. Instead of giving a 
general idea of the whole problem first, thus afi'ording the student 
an opportunity to make some plan for the sequence of her work and 
then giving the direction for the details as need arises, she begins 
with the parts and doles out her directions piece by piece until the 
problem is finished. The student is unable at any time to see the 
problem of the work as a whole and because of this fails to see the 
details in their proper relation and value. Consequently she does 
not make a wise and economical plan of procedure, or indeed any 
plan at all. 



1912] College Courses in Domestic Art 289 

Another great loss in speed is caused by an over-emphasis on per- 
fection of technique. The student feels that she must reach very 
high standards of perfection, so immediately becomes apprehensive, 
worries for fear she will not do the thing well enough, starts to do 
it and takes it out, in other words "putters" instead of going at it 
with decision, doing the best she can and then improving on it the 
next time. This habit of "puttering" grows. If it is in sewing she 
takes a few stitches, looks at them, takes a few more and looks at 
them, and then decides to take them out and do it over. This inter- 
rupted work does not make for perfection of technique and lowers her 
speed to an appalling degree. 

Informal class discussions which arise from the needs of individual 
students are of great value in developing good judgment and decision. 
If one member of the class needs help on any particular detail it is 
often well worth while to stop the rest of the class and get their opinion 
on the best way of doing the thing. They should be encouraged to 
suggest and decide for themselves, and if their suggestions are not 
good, they should not be discouraged and made to feel that they are 
quite lacking in ordinary intelligence. The instructor should simply 
explain why their way is impractical and hers a better way. Stu- 
dents should always be encouraged to think things out for themselves 
and to use their own judgment. Good hard common sense and good 
judgment are such valuable assets in any kind of constructive work, 
that no opportunity to allow them to develop these qualities should 
be neglected. 

A third and very easily remedied loss of speed is caused by the use 
of inadequate or improper tools and by awkward, unskillful muscular 
manipulation. 

These are only three of the many points which grow in importance 
as experience in teaching broadens. There are many others which 
have also a direct bearing on the vitality of technical instruction, 
and successful technical instruction is that which to instructor and 
student alike is vital. 



290 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

DISCUSSION ON ECONOMIC AND SCIENTIFIC PHASES. 
Miss Anna F. Blohm. 

Ohio State University. 

There is a very close connection between the economic and scien- 
tific phases of this work. To deal with textiles from the economic 
point of view would be impossible, for instance, without a knowledge 
of chemistry. 

I have been very much interested in the different courses in tex- 
tiles which are being given and this year I visited a number of schools 
for the purpose. Frequently I would expect a discussion along 
chemical or scientific lines but I would find the pupils weaving. 
Weaving was given as the textile work, but when it comes to the 
more advanced ideas of the subject it is not what we are aiming for, 
which is the economic point of view. 

A suggestion for two years of chemistry in the course seems excel- 
lent, though it is one that we find in very few of the universities. 

Occasionally we find an organic course required. It seems if we 
are going to introduce dyeing into our course, a knowledge of organic 
chemistry would be almost indispensible, as otherwise it would be 
arts and crafts work. 

So long as we have to begin domestic arts work in the colleges and 
universities our work is not going to progress so fast as we would 
wish. We must require it in the grades and high schools. Other- 
wise we have not time for the economic side of the work, or for the 
chemical side which we must introduce into the colleges and uni- 
versities if we want our women to be university and college women. 
We cannot give all of our time to even the technical and scientific 
phases. We must have opportunity for English and history, which 
have a very vital connection with the study of industrial conditions. 
We must have economics; we must have art. 

The art department is entirely distinct from the household decor- 
ation, and in some of the large schools it is surprising to find how little 
pure art is required. At Ohio State University we require two years 
of art and two years of chemistry, and we feel that we could not possi- 
bly do with less. We do not stress the technical work; rather the 
educational phase, so to speak, with the emphasis upon the scientific, 
the economic, and the art phases of the work, with the technical phase 
reduced to a minimum. 



1912] College Courses in Domestic Art 291 

DISCUSSION FROM THE FLOOR. 

Miss Craig. — With reference to the diflSculties met in the technical 
courses may I say that if a girl has a clear working idea of what she 
is going to attempt she will have less difficulty. That is why funda- 
mental art work is so valuable. It trains in constructing working 
plans. This method also economizes time. It relates the art ex- 
pression with scientific method, and when girls with the artistic tem- 
perament see the connection between these two classes of work in 
the application and that scientific interest is a part of all good creative 
work they take more kindly to the scientific and technical work. 
They should also have it for the sake of balance. 

Miss Cooley. — It is time to take more active interest in the art phases 
of domestic art. 

Miss Bevier. — I do not feel that I have a contribution to make 
except to say that the art side has been one of the most difficult ones 
that we have worked out. We have had, at the University of Illinois, 
for the past two years much better expression from the art depart- 
ment, but the field seems to me to be almost untouched. 

I have one other thing to say, and I pass it on for the domestic art 
people to work for. There is a feeling that the art side does not have 
due representation among us. I feel that we get sometimes, at least, 
the things that we go after; and that if science has a better showing 
in Home Economics than art has it is because somebody has worked 
harder for science than somebody else has worked for art. The 
responsibility therefore is upon the art people to improve the defini- 
tions, to improve the product, to feel the responsibility. 

Mrs. Anna Gilchrist Strong. — The public schools ol Cincinnati 
require a great deal of art work, consequently every domestic science 
and art teacher must be trained along that line. We have a two 
years' art course — the first year in pure design, the second year in 
costume design, house decorating, and other applied design. We 
find it very useful and even the girls who are not artistically inclined 
take to it. 

Mrs. C. W. Foulk, Ohio State University. — I have been very much 
interested for some time in domestic science and art. I was a teacher 
of the science and formerly could see very little on the art side; I 
thought there was not much to teach. After having a home of my 
own I found that there were big problems, and now if I were going 
back into the work I should be undecided which to take up. I think' 



292 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the reason I had no appreciation of domestic art was because of the 
way it was taught to me, as merely sewing and pattern-making. 

Mrs. J. W. Shaw, Ardtvick, Md. — I have charge of the domestic 
science work in the colored schools and I have been particularly 
interested in this meeting because of an experiment I am making in 
connection with the Armstrong Manual Training School. A few 
weeks ago we rented a small house near it. I have been fortunate in 
getting the drawing teachers and the sewing teachers interested in 
this little home and whenever any question comes up on decorating 
or doing the carpentry work or the gardening, I appeal to these special 
departments. Although I am outside the art work I have been try- 
ing to get the domestic art teachers interested in it. 

Miss Craig. — One of the problems that we must meet in the near 
future is that of real correlation and unification, by working out 
relative values in the factors entering into Home Economics. Is 
there any one who will speak to this proposition? 

Dr. W. A . Hedrick. — I have been interested in the teaching of physics 
for a number of years, and I have been having experience which 
would be of benefit to the girls interested in this work but I have 
found only two or three applications. For instance, we have sets 
of experiments determining the strength of cotton, but we find that 
in such materials as cotton there is such great variation that we can- 
not do much. There are, however, many experiments which come 
to my mind of great interest in domestic art. 

Mrs. 0. N. Guldlin. — I may say I am delighted to hear of this move- 
ment for applied chemistry in household art. I have been a house- 
keeper for twenty-two years and realize the necessity of it. 

Miss Van Rensselaer. — I should like to say a final word. We have 
a body of teachers here who are interested in domestic art. We 
have just heard from Mrs. Guldlin, chairman of the Home Economics 
section of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. Why should 
we not unite at one point, at least work together? We should ask 
for pure textiles, just as we are asking for pure foods. Why should 
we not have from this meeting a resolution in the interest of this 
movement? 

Mrs. Murphy. — I move that we ask the resolutions committee to 
embody a section relating to pure textiles. 

Mrs. Guldlin. — I second the motion. 

The motion was carried, and the resolution was subsequently 
adopted. 



WHAT SUBJECT MATTER SHOULD CONSTITUTE A 
WELL BALANCED COURSE OF STUDY IN 
DOMESTIC ART?i ^ 

Sadie Swenson. 

Assistant Instructor, Domestic Art Department, College of Industrial Arts, Denton, 

Texas. 

The purpose of this brief discussion is to suggest the subject matter 
for a well balanced course of study in domestic art, and the method of 
accomplishing the aim set forth. 

For many years investigators and teachers have made a systematic 
study of those sciences pertaining to food and nutrition. As a result 
of these experiments and investigations, domestic science is com- 
paratively well established in industrial education. In the mind of 
the general public domestic art is a comparatively insignificant course, 
often listed as a minor topic under domestic science. What is the 
cause of this general opinion? The same sciences — biology, physio- 
logy, and chemistry — that form the foundation of domestic science 
also enter into the superstructure of domestic art. Yet though the 
significance of this fact is beginning to be recognized throughout the 
country, the majority of the schools are still adhering to the primi- 
tive content of study — sewing, dressmaking, and millinery — and are 
blindly pursuing it through the approach of least resistance, the sole 
aim of which is technical skill. 

Since there is so much confusion in the minds of our educators 
regarding the content of subject matter in domestic art the defini- 
tions of the two words "domestic" and "art" are very pertinent: 

" Domestic" means belonging to the household, "art" is a systematic 
application of knowledge or skill in effecting a desired result, espe- 
cially in the production of the beautiful by imitation or design. From 
these definitions it is obvious that a well-balanced course must in- 
clude other than mere technical interests which have but slight edu- 
cational value. Contrasted with them are the shelter phases of 
domestic art. The numerous interests included in the subject mat- 
ter should be approached through the artistic and practical problems 
pertaining to the home, its location, structure, decoration, and fur- 
nishings. The results of these existing conditions create either the 
desirable or undesirable home atmosphere. Landscape gardening 

^Presented at the Christmas meeting of the Texas State Teachers' Association. 

293 



294 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

is an important and distinctive home interest which should be stressed 
on account of its broader relation to civic order and beauty. 

Domestic art is applied art. In order to receive appreciable results 
in this work, a certain amount of art training provides that pre- 
requisite medium which contributes to intellectual and spiritual 
growth, both of which are absolutely fundamental to constructive 
expression. 

Textiles in their various uses for furnishing and clothing should be 
studied from the historic, scientific, economic, artistic, and ethical 
standpoints. Textiles should be approached historically. There is 
no surer method of arousing interest in any subject than by studying 
its history. The historical association coupled with the distribution, 
growth, structure, and preparation of the chief textile fibers more 
readily fastens these facts in the mind. The evolution of the textile 
fabrics is closely identified with the origin and development of the 
mechanical inventions which have revolutionized industrial and 
social conditions. With this historic setting the scientific field of 
textiles offers a rich field for investigation, and its value cannot be 
easily overestimated. 

Women are the chief consumers of the textile production. Through 
ignorance of adulteration of textile fabrics on the part of these con- 
sumers, there is an enormous waste in the expenditure of time and 
money. Not until recent years has textile experimentation been 
systematically followed. It is to the science of chemistry that we 
owe the production of our beautiful fabrics so rich in color. It is 
also by this same science that we are imposed upon, to such a great 
extent, with the adulteration of materials. Objections cannot be 
raised against certain kinds of adulterations because the average 
buyer cannot today afford the pure fabrics, nor are they more desir- 
able in many cases. But why should the consumer pay an all wool 
price for a piece of material when it proves to be one-half or three- 
fourths cotton? Why should she pay one dollar and fifty cents per 
yard for taffeta silk and receive a small amount of silk and a large 
percentage of metallic salts, etc.? 

Some very interesting experiments have been carried out in this 
line in the textile course at the College of Industrial Arts this past 
term. Almost without an exception the 125 juniors taking the work 
have grasped the tremendous economic significance of this situation. 
By numerous simple tests they have realized there is economy in 
the selection of color in household furnishings and clothing as well 



1912] Subject Matter in Domestic Art 295 

as in the fabric itself. Because of the characteristics of certain tex- 
tile fibers they have found that it is more economical, in the long 
run, to pay a higher price and receive a better material. The processes 
of cleaning and dyeing are important features of this scientific phase 
which should not be neglected. 

Having approached the study of textiles through the historic, scien- 
tific, economic, and artistic aspects we are ready to deal with the 
constructive or technical problems. Students armed with this pre- 
requisite knowledge are prepared to consider intelligently such speci- 
fic problems as decorative needlework and its various forms of appli- 
cation to house furnishings, undergarments, dresses, gowns, hats, pat- 
tern alterations, and laundry. 

As the work is taught in the schools of this state, as well as in schools 
and colleges of other states, emphasis is laid only on the technical 
side. The method so often used in presenting this work is the model 
system. We do not hesitate to state that it is an antiquated form of 
instruction. 

The following are some of the arguments advanced in its favor: 
That the learning of the stitches on the "little useless scraps" will 
arouse "determination, persistence, perseverance, painstaking accu- 
racy, and patience;" that the cultivation of these qualities will awaken 
an "interest which results in encouragement, pride, knowledge, con- 
scious power, and a good degree of satisfaction." But how much 
has the student gained of the relative value of materials and uses? 
What judgment and taste has been exercised? What conscious power 
has the student acquired when she has not been given a means for 
expression? What artistic feeling has been developed? Really of 
what educational value is this purely technical drill which is taught 
in so many of our schools? Weeks, months, and years are spent in 
making this scrap book. Whom does it benefit — the student, her 
family, her community? I speak feelingly on this particular method 
because my feelings are born of experience. I spent weeks making 
models. My highest aim was accuracy. I did not develop an atom 
spiritually, intellectually, or creatively. It is true I gained a know- 
ledge of so many different kinds of stitches, but not at all of their 
application. Could I not have acquired the knowledge of the stitches 
and their application on an article that would have provoked a 
thoughtful effort and resulted in an artistic and practical form? 

The application of the theoretical suggestions offered in subject 
matter can be applied in any grade. The historical view of textiles 



296 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

may be presented so interestingly as to awaken and hold the atten- 
tion of the youngest child. For example, the study of the primitive 
people is abundant in suggestions for textile problems. In the ex- 
pression of these problems the various kinds of stitches may be em- 
ployed as a means to that end. 

Economy in textiles is a most important feature and should be 
early impressed upon the young consumer's mind. For instance, 
if the problem should be the making of a pillow case, the student 
should be instructed in the kinds of materials used for that purpose; 
the fibers from which those materials are made; and reasons why 
some fabrics are more desirable and more economical than others. 
Then let her investigate for herself the different widths and cost of 
appropriate materials. By this method she is thro^uTi on her own 
responsibility and encouraged to exercise judgment and taste in her 
selection. 

The artistic feature of textiles cannot be overlooked, because every 
article or garment, regardless of its simplicity or purpose, is applied 
art in form or in color or in both. Any instructor teaching textiles 
in any form, disregarding the application and being ignorant of art 
principles, errs unpardonably. 

While the scientific phase of textiles cannot be entered into so 
extensively in high school work, the demonstration of certain simple 
physical and chemical tests can be performed by the teacher. Light, 
weather, and sun tests can be applied to colored fabrics, in connection 
with the laundry, with perfect success. Though these are scientific 
tests they are also significant economic features in furnishing and 
clothing which should be emphasized. 

To teach the technical problems involved in domestic art without 
considering the various view-points is comparable to teaching any 
advanced science without the essential fundamental laws pre-re- 
quisite to any mental training. Definite results and marked progress 
cannot be any more anticipated in the former subject than in the 
latter. To be of value the content of subject matter must be pre- 
sented in such a manner as to stimulate independence in thought, 
in judgment, and in taste. Eliminate these principles and you will 
remove the foundation upon which to build. The student's training 
should be of such a nature as to enable her to adapt herself to the com- 
plex organization of society: to solve intelligently the problems of 
wise purchases; to raise as well as to adjust the standard of living: 
to arouse an aspiration to attain the beautiful; and to awaken a 
broader sympathy and a desire to be of service to mankind. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE. 

Mary D. S. Rose. 
May I, 1912. 

I. Food. 

Cheese and its Economical Uses in the Diet. C. F. Langworthy and Caroline 
L. Hunt. U. S. Dept. ofAgr., Farmers' Bulletin 487. 

Cheese — A Neglected Nutrient. Editorial. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn. April 
6, 1912, p. 1016. 

Casein and its Uses for Food. W. M. Seaber, Sanitary Record, vol. 49, p. 20. 
Commercial casein preparations. 

The Utilization of Dairy By-Products as Food. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Farmers' 
Bulletin 4S6. 

Condensed Milk. J. F. G. H. Coutts. British Food Jour., vo\. 1$, p. 181. History, 
varieties, methods of preparation. 

Bacterial Counts and Acidity Determinations of Milk as Delivered to the Con- 
sumer, based on a study followed for one year. Schorer. Arck. Pediatrics, March, 
i9i2,pp. 200-203. 

Cooking and Chemical Composition of Some English Fish. K. I. Williams. 
Chem. News, vol. 104, pp. 271-274. 

Salt-Rising Bread and Some Comparisons with Bread Made with Yeast. H. A. 
Kohman. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., February, 191 2, pp. 100-106. 

The Ethics of Food: HI. Bread. Science Progress, 1911, p. 536. Reviewed by 
W. D. Halliburton in annual report for 191 1, Jour. Chem. Soc, London. 

Milling Tests of Wheat and Baking Tests of Flour. J. T. Willard and C. O. Swan- 
son. Kan. Agr. Exp. Sta., Bull. 177. 

Composition of Dry Gluten and its Relation to the Protein Content of Flour. 
G. A. Olson, Jour. Ind. and Eng. Chem., 1912, March, pp. 206-209. 

Acidity of Flour. C. O. Swanson. Jour. Ind. and Eng. Chem., 191 2, vol. 4, 
pp. 274-278. 

The Study of Stringy Bread. E. Keyser and H. Delavel. Compt. Rend., vol, 
^53) PP- 576-578; abs. in Chem. Abs., February 20, p. 515. 

2. Nutrition. 

Chemical and Energy Exchange in Sleeping Children. J. Howland. Zeil. 
Physiol. Chem., vol. 74, pp. 1-12; abs. in Chem. Abs., March 20, p. 768. 

Mineral Salts and their Relation to the Dietary of Infants and Young Children. 
Hoobler. Archives Pediatrics, March, 191 2, pp. 208-214. 

Mineral Salt Metabolism; or, the Uses of the Mineral Salts to the Growing Infant 
and Child. Editorial. Arch. Pediatrics, March, 191 2, pp. 161-164. 

297 



298 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Dietetic Treatment of Infantile Tetany. Gruelle. Arch. Pediatrics, January, 
191 2, pp. 24-45. 

Gastric and Pancreatic Secretions of the Newborn. Hess. Proceedings of Society 
for Exp. Biology and Medicine, vol. ix, no. 2, pp. 20-21. 

On Creatin-destroying Bacilli in the Intestine and their Isolation. Twort and 
Mellanby. Jour. Physiol., March, 191 2, pp. 43-49. 

Creatin and Creatinin Excretion in Recurrent Vomiting. J. P. Sedgwick. Amer. 
Jour. Diseases Children, April, 191 2, pp. 209-216. 

Beriberi, Rice, and Beans. Editorial. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., April 13, 1912, 
pp. 1118-1119. 

Analysis of Rice; Effect of Polishing; Relation to Disease of Beriberi. Experi- 
ments reviewed by W. D. Halliburton. Annual reports for 191 1, Jour. Chem. Soc. 
London. 

The Effect of a Diet of Polished Rice on the Nitrogen and Phosphorus of the Brain 
Funk. Jour. Physiol., March, 191 2, pp. 50-53. 

The High Calorie Diet in Typhoid Fever. Am. Jour. Med. Science, vol. 143 
1912, p. 77. 

Digestion in Fever. J. B. Nichols. Am. Jour. Med. Science, vol. 142, pp. 93-95 

Diet in India. B. N. Ghosh. Dietetics and Hygienic Gaz., vol. 27, pp. 470-475 
Dietaries for natives and Europeans. 

Studies in Nutrition. V. The Utilization of the Proteins of Cottonseed; VI 
The Utilization of the Proteins of Extraction — Free Meat Powder; and the Origin 
of Fecal Nitrogen. L. B. Mendel and M. S. Fine. Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. ii, pp 
5-26. 

Metabolism of Development. III. Qualitative Effects of Pregnancy on the 
Protein Metabolism of the Dog. J. R. Murlin. Am. Jour. Physiol., 28, pp. 422- 

454- 

An Explanation of Hunger. W. B. Cannon and H. L. Washburn. Am. Jour. 
Physiol., March, pp. 441-455. 

Peristalsis, Segmentation, and the Mesenteric Reflex. W. B. Cannon. Am. 
Jour. Physiol., April, pp. 1 14-129. 

The Putrefaction Processes in the Intestine of a Man During Fasting and During 
Subsequent Periods of Low and High Protein Ingestion. C. R. Sherwin and P. 
B. Hawk. Jour. Biol. Chem., April, pp. 169-179. 

Protein Metabolism from the Standpoint of Blood and Tissue Analysis. O. 
Folin and W. Denis. Jour. Biol. Chem., February, pp. 87-95; March, pp. 161-168. 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

Ventilation of a Steam Laundry; Dust in Relation to Health; The Art of Vacuum 
Cleaning. Renting and Ventilating Mag., vol. 9, March, 191 2, no. 3. 

On Agar- Agar as a Vehicle in Intestinal Therapeutics. Max. Emhorn. Am. 
Jour. Med. Science, February, 191 2, pp 230-232. 

Influence of Oral Sepsis on Digestive Disorders. Geo. M. Niles. Am. Jour. 
Med. Sciences, February, 1912, pp. 217-221. 

The Clothing of Children in Relation to Physique and Development. Alice 
M. Burn and M. B. Edin. The Child, March, 191 2, pp. 462-467. 



1912] Bibliography of Home Economics 299 

Sanitation in the Philippines — Cleaning Up Manila. James Le Roy. Modern 
Sanitation, March, 1912, pp. 93-99. 

The Sanitation of Savagery. Herbert M. Lome. Modern Sanitation, February, 
1912, pp. 45-52. 

Possible Sources of Hospital Infections. Mary Tufts. Dietetic and Hygienic 
Gazette, April, 191 2, pp. 246-247. 

Certain Fundamental Principles Relating to the Activity of Bacteria in the Intes- 
tinal Tract. A. J. Kendall. Jour. Med. Research, vol. 25, pp. 11 7-187. 

Chronic Constipation. Dr. Alfred Reed. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., April 6, 
1912, pp. 997-998. 

4. Textiles and Clothing. 

The Value of Fiber Testing Machines for Measuring the Strength and Elasticity 
of Wool. J. A. Hill. Wyoming Exper. Sla. Bull., gs. 

Some Interesting Indian Textiles. A}n. Wool and Cotton Reporter, kprW 11, 191 2, 
p. 495. Concerning Indian blankets. 

Some Old-Time Wall-Papers. Winifred Fales. Am. Homes and Gardens , April, 
1912, pp. 122-125. 

Real Tapestries: What They are and Something about Buying Them. Geo. 
Leland Hunter. Am. Homes and Gardens, February, 191 2, pp. 45-48. 

Tapestries of Today. R.V.Goodhue. House afulGarden,FehTua.r)',igi2, pp. 
15-16. 

How to Buy Hosiery. Carolyn Trowbridge. Radnor-Lewis. Good Housekeep- 
ing, March, 191 2, pp. 412-417. 

The Inside of a Shirt- Waist Factory. Clara Lemlich. Good Housekeeping, March 
1912, p. 367. 

The Dry Cleaning of Garments. C. G. James. Good Housekeeping, February, 
1912, pp. 222-223. 

The Willow Plume Industry. M. C. Trowbridge. The Household Arts Review, 
February, 191 2, pp. 46-48. 

My Experience in Reviving Old Embroideries. Mrs. Newell. Handicraft, 
February, 1912, pp. 379-387. Hand vs. machine made embroideries. 

What Can High Schools do Better to Help the Industries? Fred. D. Crawshaw. 
Manual Training Mag., February, 191 2, pp. 193-204. 

King Cotton. L.J.Abbott. /»dc/»c»Mfc«/, March 7, 191 2, pp. 509-513. Bene- 
fit of cotton-picking machine. 

A Step Towards Artistic Dress in America. Grace L. Hitchings. The School 
Arts Book, March, 191 2, pp. 677-683. 

A Jute Substitute from China. Lock Haven, Tetxile World Record, March, 1912, 
p. 76. 

Practical Dyeing: Silk and Artificial Silk. Reumark, Textile World Record, 
February, 1912, pp. 117-119. 

5. Education and Soclax Work. 

The Feeding of Necessitous Children. D. Forbes and J. Lambert. Lancet, 

ii, i9ii,pp. 239-240. f DEPARTME^JTI 

LB 
tCLSLhOLD SCIENCE 



300 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Food Wastes in Public Institutions. Editorial. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., April 
13, 1912, pp. 1116-1117. 
The Home and the Market. Martha Bensley Bruere. Outlook, March 30, pp. 

732-738. 
The New Home Making. Martha Bensley Bruere. Outlook, March 16, pp. 

591-595- 

Course in the Use and Preparation of Vegetable Foods for Movable and Corre- 
spondence Schools of Agriculture. Anna Barrows. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Office of 
Expt. Stations, Bull. 245. 

Suggestive Outline of Domestic Art Course for a High School. Mary E. East- 
wood. Household Art Review, February, 191 2, pp. 38-45. 

Vocational Training in Our Public Schools. Mary Josephine Mayer. Renew of 
Reviews, April, 191 2, pp. 449-456. 

Industrial Schools in Germany. Pedagogical Seminary , March, 191 2, pp. 112-115. 

Social Worker in the Hospital. Brown. Diet, and Hygienic Gazette, April, 1912, 
pp. 219-222. 

Nursing as a Vocation for the College Woman. Edna L. Foley. Nurses' Journal 
of the Pacific Coast, February, 1912, pp. 54-63. 

The New Meaning of Public Health. Robert W. Bruere. Harpers, April, 191 2, 
pp. 690-696. Concerning the public health movement in Pennsylvania. 

6. Miscellaneous. 

Living Costs: A World Problem. Robert Coit Chapin. The Survey, February 
3, 1912, pp. 1671-1672. 

The Modern Sleeping Room. Cooking. Boston School i/ag., February, 191 2, 
PP- 307-312. 

Household Decoration. Helen Binkerd Young. Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 
I, no. 5, Farm House Series, no. i. 

Household Furnishing. Helen Binkerd Young. Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 
i, no. 7. Farm House Series, no. 2. 

How Reduce the Meat Bill? Jessamine Chapman. Boston Cooking-school Mag., 
February, 1912, pp. 323-325. 

The Ethics of Gastronomy and Dietetics. Janet M. Hill. Boston Cooking-School 
Mag., April, 191 2, pp. 435-437- 

The Passing of Pots and Pans. Elenora Elizabeth Reber. American Food 
Journal, January, 191 2, pp. 21-22. 



Correction. Mrs. Lynden Evans has accepted the chair- 
manship of the proposed Housekeepers' Section of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association, and the work of organiza- 
tion is actively under way. The initial conference has been 
deferred until autumn, when it will probably be held in Chicago. 



SUMMER MEETINGS. AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS 
ASSOCIATION. 

The American Home Economics Association has announced three 
gatherings for the summer of 1912: The Administration Section will 
meet at Lake Placid, New York, June 22-26; there will be a Home 
Economics program at the National Education Association conven- 
tion at Chicago, July 6-12; and the Graduate School of Home Eco- 
nomics, which is conducted under the auspices of the Association, 
will be held July 1-26, at East Lansing, Michigan. 

The Administration Section will open with a brief business session 
Saturday, June 22, and the four-day program will include among 
other features the following papers and reports: Report of the 
education committee on instruction in institution administration, 
Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Simmons College; practice fields in 
training for household and institution management. Miss Emma 
H. Gunther, Teachers College; report of laundry committee on 
organization of institution laundries. Miss S. Maria Elliott, Sim- 
mons College, chairman; scientific management in the household and 
the institution, Mr. F. B. Gilbreth; time studies of household work. 
Miss Effie Raitt; report of committee on elementary school lunches. 
Miss Alice Boughton, Philadelphia, chairman; rules and directions 
for employees, and score-cards for measuring efficiency in employees, 
Mrs. Annie Dewey, Lake Placid Club; an investigation as to the 
position of dietitian, Miss Susannah Usher; report on food adminis- 
tration — the equipment and organization of kitchens for a unit of 
five hundred; distribution per capita of food costs for the different 
food items, Melvil Dewey; problems in the administration of the 
individual household, Mrs. Robert Bru^re, New York. Other topics 
which may be treated are commercial laundries and bakeries; floor 
plans of college dormitories; and a conference on progress for the 
private household 

All interested are invited to attend the conference. It will prove 
particularly interesting to persons engaged in some form of admin- 
strative work related to the home and the institution, or in education 
related to administration, but teachers of Home Economics will 
find this gathering, as those of preceding years, of much significance 
to them. 301 



302 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The American Home Economics Association will cooperate with 
the National Education Association in a one-day program at the 
convention of the latter association in Chicago, July 6-12. The 
complete program of the National Education Association can be 
obtained by addressing the secretary, Mr. Irwin Shepherd, Winona, 
Minnesota. The Home Economics program will be given July 11, 
and will be as follows: 

2.30 p.m., Chairman, Miss Isabel Bevier, president of American Home Econom- 
ics Association. General subject, The economics of the household: (i) Distri- 
bution of income on $500, $1000, and ;!i)2ooo per year for a family of five, two adults 
and three children. Miss Mary S. Snow, supervisor of household arts, public schools, 
Chicago, 111.; (2) dietetic standards for these various households. Miss Isabel 
Bevier, head of the department of household science, University of lUinois; (3) 
obligations to society for the three standards presented, Mrs. Raymond Robbins, 
head of the National Woman's Trade Union League, Chicago, III. General dis- 
cussion. Miss Irene B. McDermott, director of the department of household arts, 
Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Pa., Miss Carrie E. Lyon, instructor in cooking 
and housekeeping, Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women, Pittsburgh, 
Pa.; Mrs. Mary D. Chambers, head of the department of Home Economics, Rock- 
ford College, Rockford III. 

In addition to the National Education Association meetings, the 
Home Economics Association will hold during the convention a con- 
ference on problems of housekeeping. This first Housekeepers Con- 
ference is being organized by a committee of which Mrs. Lynden 
Evans of Chicago is chairman. Former teachers of Home Economics 
who are now keeping house and all home women interested in progress 
for the home are urged, even if they can not attend the meeting, to 
send their names to Mrs. Evans, who may be addressed at The Bright- 
ton, Washington, D. C. until the adjournment of Congress, then at 
Congress Hotel, Chicago, 111. It is hoped to organize a group of 
people within the Home Economics Association who will work espe- 
cially upon problems of the private homes. 

The third gathering of the summer, the graduate school of Home 
Economics, will be held at Michigan State Agricultural College, 
East Lansmg, Michigan, July 1-26. It should bring together for 
the unusual courses ofiered all school and college teachers of Home 
Economics who can possibly attend. The preliminary program 
is printed in the April Journal of Home Economics (pp. 1 70-1 71) and 
circulars may be obtained by addressing Mr. A. M. Brown, Regis- 
trar, East LansiTig, Michigan. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, 
Secretary, American Home 
Economics Association. 



EDITORIALS. 

We greatly regret that we are unable to furnish certain back numbers 
of the Journal which are increasingly called for in order to complete 
sets for binding. The permanent value of a file of the 
Value of the Journal is now well recognized by indi\'iduals and 
Journal. libraries and a reprinting of these early numbers ma> 

be found adx-isable in order to meet this demand. 
These three goodly volumes, to which a fourth will soon be added, con- 
tain material to be found nowhere else. In them experts in various 
fields have treated in a masterly way the many subjects that form the 
basis of this newest of the applied sciences and have helped to place 
it in its present dignified position before the country. 

As one recent subscriber has written, "That table of contents whets 
my appetite. All my life I have been interested in these subjects 
and considered them very important, but until lately I did not know 
that first-class people were writing about them in this thorough way." 

Treasure your Journals Bind them if possible, but if you cannot 
keep them, put them into the hands of those whom they will help or 
return to our ofiice for distribution. We have many requests. 

In the April number of the Journal appeared the interesting address 
of Dr. Claxton, our recently appointed U. S. Commissioner of 
Education, as given at our annual meeting, but those 
The Spending who listened to this address will miss in this report 
of the Income, of it one paragraph which raised an important sub- 
ject to a high plane. In dwelling on the responsi- 
bility of the woman as the spender of the family income, he said, 
"A dollar is a sacred thing, it represents labor, the unit with which 
we measure a man's work for a day or a fraction of a day. Shall we 
squander human life?" 

We cannot recommend to women's clubs a better topic for study 
during the coming season than the dixnsion of the income of several 
grades over the different items it is supposed to cover. It is a study 
in comparative finance and it is warranted to strike deep. Ethical 
questions beset it on every side. 

3°3 



304 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

We find out very soon that life is a question not of what but of which. 
If we are above the Hne of absolute necessity in food, shelter, and cloth- 
ing, we have the power of choice, and what we choose shows what we 
value. The members of a family have been known to give up des- 
serts for the winter, in order that they might hear the best music; 
another has replaced butter with other fats, and the result is a cov- 
eted piece of new furniture. 

To train ourselves to a better balancing of the income and to be 
better buyers is not dazzling or spectacular work; it is humble and work- 
aday, but it is along the line of duty. Women produce, it is said, 
about i/iooo part of the marketable wealth of the country; they con- 
sume or direct the consumption of more than half of it; they must 
learn to do this intelligently or they are not training and organizing 
their work. 

The "power of choice," think what that means! If you have it to 
any degree you belong to the fortunate classes. Either you have 
been enabled by education and opportunity to earn your own living, 
or some one worked for you long ago so that your "wages" are "paid 
in advance," to use the apt phrase of Miss Grace Dodge, or some one is 
working for you today. In our honest moments most of us are willing 
to own that we are getting out of this world more value than we are 
turning back into it. 

This means that we must realize the responsibility that belongs to 
the great middle class in any country, those whose incomes lie between 
poverty and riches. It is an immensely important class. It upholds 
standards of comfort and refinement, out of it come most of the leaders; 
it has in general worked hard with brain and hand and understands 
conditions both below and above its own; it bears more than its share 
of all public burdens. Its needs should be met, its problems studied, 
and to that it is that Home Economics invites you. The study of this 
middle class income is as greatly needed as that of the families who live 
below the poverty line, for poverty is in itself what Mrs. Simkovitch 
has called "an automatic standardizer." One cannot make mistakes in 
spending what one has not, but as incomes go up in the scale this power 
of choice enters in and mistakes abound. The mistakes are said to be 
the greatest in the incomes between $2000 and $10,000. 



1912] Editorials 305 

We venture to launch a new combination of capital letters! They 
stand for " Central Bureau of Information and Advice to Housekeepers." 
It already exists, a branch of it, and is known as the 
C. B. I. A. H. C. 0. S. but it extends its help only to the very poor. 
Our charitable organizations, beginning ^nth the press- 
ing need to fill the coal bin and the empty pantry, have been forced to 
take up the larger question of those maladjustments that produce 
poverty. They strive to abate "the inconvenience of ignorance," 
to use the quaint phrase of John Eliot, the early missionary to the 
Indians. 

They now send out, even to those who ask no financial help, the " visit- 
ing lady" who studies the problems of the home in the only place where 
it can be studied, in the home itself. 

But the "inconvenience of ignorance" is found everywhere. For 
the middle class home, for those women who can afford to pay a fee 
for such ser\-ice, a "Bureau of Information and Advice" is greatly 
needed. Women once knew all about the things used in their house- 
holds, for they themselves made them or saw them made. In our 
modern complicated life such a bureau is needed as an intermediary 
between the consumer and the various business agencies that supply 
her daily needs and who are solely concerned in selling her their 
product. 

And how is the household to make its adjustments to new forms of 
industry and to the outside world which now bears such a different 
relation to it? Intelligent women are asking such questions as these: 
What ought we to consider the essentials of a home? What work can 
be done advantageously by the woman who must be at home to look 
after little children and what work is best done outside? What is 
the supervision of bakeries and laundries in our town? Is cost ac- 
counting applicable to my small household? What system of accounts 
will give me the best training for the least expenditure of time? How 
shall I get the best results from my cookstove? What is the best book 
on practical dietetics? How shall I go to work to make a fireless 
cooker? A club of ten want to o^^^l together a vacuum cleaner. What 
one do you advise? Please give the tests needed to tell wool from cot- 
ton in buying dress goods. Does it pay to sift cinders? How shall 
I remove ink spots from a delicate fabric? 

It may be said that all such subjects are treated in the daily paper 
and in the pages of the women's journals. Yes, and often ably, but 
in other cases superficially and wrongly, and whether the answer is 



3o6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

good or bad the average reader has no means of knowing. If to one 
who enquires how to keep eggs from spring to fall eleven ways are given, 
among which is not included the one and only way recommended by the 
Department of Agriculture, must not such information be counted as 
worse than none? 

But far more serious is the fact that newspaper work is and must be 
of only passing value. The writer visited one newspaper office where 
the household column was ably conducted and heard conversations 
over the telephone with professors in a leading university who were 
doing their duty in "extension" work by answering such important 
questions as "What is the food value of alcohol?" and "What advice 
shall be given to amateur collectors of mushrooms?" Such answers 
serve for the day only, they are not available for future reference at a 
moment's notice and the page that contained them is soon in the refuse 
heap. 

Waste of good work as of good material of any kind is distressing — 
on the other hand how great the satisfaction that comes from the 
assembly of like facts to form true conclusions and the proper filing of 
valuable information so that it may be accessible to those who need it 
at any time! For this the work of trained and disinterested people is 
needed, and the service of a well-established and regulated bureau 
whose force understands the great value of continuance and the meth- 
ods thereto. 

The essential features of such a Bureau are a woman and a card 
catalogue. Around these all the rest will order itself. A woman of 
good sense, experience, and training would be able to 
How to Begin answer off-hand many of the questions that puzzle the 
the Bureau, young housekeeper. Her card catalogue and refer- 
ence books will answer many more and she will be in 
official connection with experimental laboratories and wise people all 
over the country to whom more difficult matters can be brought. 
The editors of this Journal during the last three years have come 
into touch with hundreds of sources of information on practical 
topics, but all is unclassified, unavailable to the seeker. 

Such a bureau would easily expand into a larger office with advisers 
and helpers and be part of a model house with a permanent exhibit 
of housekeeping appliances. And the idsiting housekeeper to go into 



19 1 2] Editorials 307 

any given household on call to study its problems would be a natural 
outgrowth. 

When the women of any community or a few of them feel the need 
of such a bureau, let them first enquire if it is not possible to start it in 
connection with some already existing agency. Have you a "Town 
Room" where a desk would be furnished for the initial e.xperiment? 
Is your Y. W. C. A. ready to expand in this direction? In any case, 
begin \\'ith a well-paid director, whose first year's salary must be guar- 
anteed by a responsible group. Her first work will be to appear before 
clubs and other gatherings of women to give actual illustrations in 
great number of the help that may be expected through such a bureau, 
and to gather together permanent help for such a movement. Let 
us add that such a bureau is considered feasible by the New England 
Branch of the American Home Economics Association and that steps 
have been taken toward its establishment, as explained on page 188 in 
our April number. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The technical work of the division of domestic science and arts is divided into two 

departments — domestic science and domestic arts. Miss Minna A. Stoner is dean 

_ , , , of the division of domestic science and arts, dean of women, and 
Oklahoma , ,, . -k^- ^ ■i.r t> -j, • 

. . ,^ , professor of domestic science. Miss Iva McBnde is assistant 

Agricultural : .r, .. -,,•■», ^ ^ ■ r 

... . . instructor of domestic science. Miss Margaret Evans is professor 
and Mechani- , . . ,,,.o^- •• 

of domestic art, and Miss b. Cage IS assistant instructor. 

The courses offered by the division include a four years' course 
leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science; a teachers' normal course in connection 
with the normal division of the college, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science; 
and elective courses with prerequisites offered to students in the science and litera- 
ture division, with the same degree as offered in the courses previouslymentioned. 
There is also a two j'ears' course for those who for lack of time and preparation are 
unable to devote the entire four j'ears to college training, but who desire to have a 
better knowledge of home management and all matters concerning the welfare of 
the home, its care, and economic problems. 

The prerequisites for all of the courses except the short course are chemistry, 
physics, and biology. Certain courses in drawing and applied art are prerequisite 
to the advanced courses in domestic art. Two j^ears of chemistr>- are required in 
the domestic science course leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. One year 
of architecture has been added to the technical course in the domestic art. English 
is offered throughout the four years, except to those taking the teachers' normal 
course, who take up pedagog>', psychology, education, school management, etc. 
instead. 

The courses of study have been greath^ strengthened by these new changes, and 
the department will further expand as means and opportunities afford. The labora- 
tories are now located in the new hall for women where lecture rooms and office 
rooms are also provided. Each winter a short course of one week is offered to the 
housekeepers of the state. Recently the upper class girls have organized a society 
called the Ellen H. Richards Society of Home Economics, which is doing excellent 
work. 

Iowa State The new Home Economics building was formally opened May i. 
College. It is hoped to present a description of the building in a subsequent 

issue. 

This congress will be held in Gand, Belgium, about the last of June, 1913. The 

first congress was held at Fribourg in 1908. The plans of the congress are not yet 

„ , T X announced, but anyone wishing to become a member ma^' do so 

Second Inter- , . ■. , ,t 1 t j.ah 

,^ b}- sending ten francs to the treasurer, Mme. lejeuned Allegeers- 

national Con- ^ ° j t. 1 • t, 1 t^u- -n .u 

„ , cheque, 16 rue des Palais, Brussels. This will ensure the re- 
gress on Teach- . ,, , ' ,.,.,, • 1 ^ 
r TT ceipt of the reports of the congress, which will compnse at least 
mg Home ^ , ^ . ,. , lj 

. nve volumes. Questions regarding the congress may be ad- 

dressed to this JouRX.\L. 

308 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Food for the Invalid and the Convalescent. Winifred Stuart Gibbs. Mac- 
miUan Company, 191 2, pp. 81. $0.75 net. 

The author of this little volume has been for five years visiting dietitian for the 
New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, teaching women 
in their homes how to provide wholesome food for their families. The book treats 
in the simplest possible language such topics as How to Buy, How to Keep Food 
from Spoiling, and \\Tiy Dirty Stores are Dangerous. 

How to Eat and Why to Cook are rather inaccurate titles for sections dealing 
with the functions of food and the general reasons and chief methods of cooking. It 
would seem better to place "Food that gives working power" before "Food that 
gives heat , ' ' especially as we do not usually eat food primarily to yield heat . ' ' Food 
that gives muscular strength" seems tautological with "Food that gives working 
power." 

About half of the volume (containing about eighty pages) is devoted to directions 
for selecting and cooking simple and ine-^cpensive dishes suitable for the sick and 
convalescent, and the remainder to special menus for the family, adapted from the 
author's pamphlet. Lessons in the Proper Feeding of the Family, diet for young 
children, quoted from Miss Farmer, and some special diets for the sick, including 
diet for constipation and for the first stages of tuberculosis. The advice is sound and 
practical, and the book will prove useful to dispensary workers for whom it is 
designed, and to other social workers without technical knowledge of the feeding 
problem. 

Mary Sw.\rtz Rose. 

Educational Status of Nursing. M.Adelaide Nutting. United Slates Bureau 
of Education Bulletin, 191 2, No. 7. 

This bulletin brings together the results of an investigation as to conditions in 
nursing education, with recommendations. 

The author believes that the training of nurses is at present inadequately cared 
for. The hospital is manned with the exploited services of the nurse, and the edu- 
cational courses provided are meagre and suffer from the demands for practical ser- 
vices within the hospital. Progress may come through the establishment of 
separate educational institutions and training courses for the nurse, which may 
be affihated with the hospital, as is the medical school. 

There is thought to be an opportunity here for university schools of Home Eco- 
nomics, which undertake a department of nurses training, as has been done at the 
University of Minnesota, with its School of Nursing, and as has been carried out in 
a less e.xtensive way by other university relationships to hospitals. Home Eco- 
nomics workers may well remember that nursing was originally a household art, and 
our technical schools should stand ready to develop affiliations with this branch of 
technical training. 



3IO The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Process of Disinfection by Chemical Agencies and Hot Water. H. Chick. 
Jour. Hyg., lo, 1910, no. 2, figs. 21, pp. 237-286; abs. in Hyg. Rundschau, 
22, 1912, no. 6, pp. 370, 371. 

In the amount of time required, disinfection may be compared to a chemical 
reaction of the bacteria and the disinfecting agent. As regards quantity of mate- 
rials, it follows the law of proportional mass, and as regards temperature the law of 
Arrhenius. In disinfection with hot water (45 to 55°), the process follows a course 
similar to that of the coagulation of albumin. Concentration, time, and tempera- 
ture act in accordance with the same laws as in the case of chemicals. The presence 
of even small quantities of acid also has a strong influence. It is probable that dis- 
infection by evaporation and sunshine follow similar laws. 

Greasy Marks and Methods of Removing Them— Stains and their "Cures." 

lllus. London News, Amer. ed., 50, 1912, no. 1296, p. 348, fig. i. 

An illustration with descriptive data showing graphically the relative efficiency of 
different solvents for removing lubricating oil, coal tar, resin, and other substances. 

A New Ice Chest. C. Zelmanowitz. Biochem. Zeitsckr., 39, i9i2,nos. 1-2, pp. 
151-154, fig. I. 

This article describes an ice chest devised for laboratory use in the Kaiserin- 
Auguste- Victoria Institution for the Combat of Infant Mortality, in the German 
Empire. The external measurements are 2. 25m. by 1.50m. by 0.70m. Beginning 
with the outer surface the bo.x is constructed of a pine case, a layer of insulating 
material, and an interior wooden box lined with tiles. Adjustable shelves of perfor- 
ated zinc sheets are supported by nickel-plated rods fixed at frequent intervals in the 
interior. The ice chamber is at the upper left hand corner of the box and can con- 
tain 2 cwt. of ice. Above the box at the right is a small electric motor by means of 
which air is driven into the ice chamber and kept in continuous circulation through 
the box. In cold weather, air of the temperature of outdoors may be pumped 
through the box, thus lessening the need of ice. The front of the ice box contains 
8 small doors, the idea here being to lessen the loss of cold when the box is opened. 
Even when due allowance is made for the cost of the motor and power this box has 
been found more conomical than one which relies entirely upon ice for its cooling, and 
has a further advantage of constant ventilation. 

[The ideas embodied might prove useful in ice chests for home or institution use.] 

Building a Concrete Porch Floor. J. E. Wing. Breeders' Gaz., 61, 191 2, no. 
II, p. 652. 

Practical directions for building a porch of reinforced concrete are given. 

Standards of Food Products in Commerce. A. McGill. Pttre Products, 8, 
1912, no. 4, pp. 209-217. 

This article is an address read before the Canadian Section of the Society of Chem- 
ical Industry. It contains a discussion of the general principles which underlie 
thelegal standards set for purity in food products, the use of preserx'atives, coloring 
matters, and similar topics. 



19 1 2] Recent Books on Home Economics 311 

Thoughts on the Action of the Enzymes, with Special Reference to the 

Nature of Pepsin. J.E.Hancock. Amer. Jour. PharTn.,Ss,igii, no.S, pp. 
373-376. 

A discussion of the modern theories regarding the nature of enzymes, with special 
reference to the atomic theory. 

The Business Side of Farming. Part I, Farm Records. J. A. Bexell, A. M., 
Dean of School of Commerce, Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis. Second 
edition. 

This treatise will be found of considerable interest and help to instructors in Home 
Economics who are concerned with instruction in household accounts. One chapter 
pf the bulletin is devoted to this subject. Blanks may be secured to accompany the 
bulletin, if one wishes to use it in instruction. 

It is suggested that some of the colleges which are publishing material on Home 
Economics would do well to bring out a popular work on household accoimts. 

SOME RECENT BOOKS ON HOME ECONOMICS. 

Equipment for Teaching Domestic Science. Helen Kinne. Whitcomb and 

Barrows. Boston. Price, 75 cents. 
The Book of Entrees. Janet M. Hill. Little, Brown and Company, Boston, 

1911. Price, $1.50. 
The Cupboard Papers. Fin-Bee. Chatto and Windus, London. Price, $2.00. 
Public Health and Housing, John F. J. Sykes. P. S. King and Son, London. 

Price, Si. 50. 
The Lunch Room. Paul Richards. Hotel Monthly Company, Chicago. 191 1. 

Price, $2.00. 
Dictionary of Foods and Culinary Encyclopedia. Herman Senn. Food and 

Cookery Publishing Agency, Westminster, England. Price, 60 cents. 
1912 Book of Home Building and Decoration. Henry C. Brown. 
The Foundation of all Reform. Otto Carqu6. Cosmos Publishing Company, 

Chicago. 
Interim Memorandum of the Teaching of House Craft in Girls Second- 
ary Schools. Board of Education, London. Price, 8 cents. 
Housekeeping and Household Arts. Alice M. Fuller. 

The House and its Equipment. Lawrence Weaver. Scribner. Price, $5.00. 
Home Hygiene and the Prevention of Disease. Norman Ditman, M.D. 

Duffield and Company, New York City. 1912. Price, $1.50. 
Educational Needlecraft. Swanson and MacBeth. Longmans, Green and 

Company. Price, $1.35. 
School Hygiene. Hope Brown. University Press, Cambridge. Price, $1.00. 
Motion Study. F. B. Gilbreth. Van Nostrand, New York City. Price, $2.00. 
Primer of Sanitation. Ritchie and Caldwell, World Book Company, New York 

City. Price, 50 cents. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 
Vol. IV OCTOBER, 1912 No. 4 

F,DITOR"Mrs. :\[ \k\ H. Ani:i., Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
MANAGIXC; KDITOR— Miss Marguerite B. Lake, Forest Hill, Md. 

f Dr. B. R. Andrews, Teachers Collcce, Xcw York City 

KDITORIAL BOARD- \ ^^^- l' ^- ^y^^'^C-'^V'^^'^n ^^ ^''^^'^^''^''^ "f -^sri- 
I culture, Washington, D. C. 

i Miss Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, X. V. 

COLLABORATORS— The Officers and Members of the Council. 

ADVERTISIXG— Mrs. Claudia Q. Murphy, Matjazine and Book Company. 
1261 Broadway; Telephone: Madison Square-2188, X^ew York Citv. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

October, 191 2 
Xegro industrial traininjj in the public schools of .\ugusta, Ga., Elizabeth G. 

Holt : 315 

The teaching of sanitary chemistrj- in a woman's college, Katharine Blunt. . 324 
Marketing facilities and their relation to the cost of living, Edward Ewing 

Pratt 329 

The laundry problem in Xew York City, Helen Woodford Pratt 337 

School lunches and medical inspection, Ira S. Wile 345 

The S500, Siooo. and S2000 income, Marj' S. Snow 355 

Practice fields in household and institutional management, Emma H. 

Gunther 352 

Bibliographj- of Home Economics literature, Mary D. S. Rose 369 

Administration Section Meeting, Lake Placid, X'ew York 372 

Members of the Administration Section present at the Lake Placid Meeting. 374 

Graduate School of Home Economics 370 

X'^ational Education Association 3 84 

Editorials 389 

Future meetings of the .Association 307 

News from the field 3^8 







Class in Sewing. 




Class in Laundry Work. 



Negro Industrial Training in the Public Schools of Augusta, Ga. (See opposite page.) 



TH E 

Journal ^/Home Economics 

Vol. IV. OCTOBER, 191 2 No. 4 

NEGRO INDUSTRIAL TRAINING IN THE PUBLIC 
SCHOOLS OF AUGUSTA, GA. 

Elizabeth G. Holt. 
Supervisor. 

For two reasons industrial training is strongly emphasized in our 
education of the negro youth in Augusta, approximately half their time 
in the two upper grades being devoted to it. 

The first is that it may have an appreciable effect upon their habits 
of living. The original racial instincts of the negroes, and the poverty 
in which they have lived from the time that the support of the wealthy 
slave-owners was withdrawn, have caused the home life of the present- 
day negro to be utterly lacking in system, cleanliness, and comfort. 
Anyone who knows the squalor of the black belt that surrounds 
nearly every southern city, or the pathetic and primitive attempts 
to conceal with a few flowers and broken ornaments the extreme dis- 
comfort within the house, will bear witness to this statement. 

The second reason is that it may enable them to render efficient 
service in the lines of work that they must necessarily follow in this 
section of the country under present conditions. 

This industrial training is not being forced upon the negro. In 
fact it was first introduced into the white schools, and there the negro 
leaders in the educational life of the commimity, seeing the great 
advantage that it would be to their people, asked that they also might 
have it. In order to forestall any denial of their request by the Board 
of Education for financial reasons, they voluntarily offered to reduce 
the "book-learning" of the schools in order to use some of the regular 
grade teachers in the new Industrial Department. 

3x5 



3i6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Before this special training was undertaken the purely academic 
work was covered by an eight-grade course, almost identical with that 
given in the white schools. In modifying the course of study to make 
it respond to a demand for a more limited academic scope and an 
increased industrial one, we have been able to employ some of our 
former grade teachers as industrial teachers, thereby solving in part 
the problem of expense. 

Through the remarkable devotion of these teachers to their cause, 
their eminently proper conception of its purpose, and their complete 
cooperation, it has been easily possible to train them specifically 
through the means of local normal classes supplemented by a helpful 
supervision of their teaching work, and through summer work at 
Hampton and Cheyney Institutes. It has been the custom of the 
Board of Education to make a certain appropriation each summer for 
Institute work with the negro grade teachers. Last year (191 1) this 
appropriation was increased and used to send all the negro industrial 
teachers to summer training schools. 

The work has been introduced into the four schools with enroll- 
ments sufficiently large to warrant the cost of equipment. The 
pupils in the two upper grades, the sixth and seventh, receive the 
instruction. These number per school about 60 girls and 15 boys. 

In each school there are three sub-departments for the girls — cook- 
ery, laundry work, and sewing. Each sub-department has its own 
special teacher who devotes all her time to teaching the pupils of that 
particular building. This gives three Home Economics teachers 
to each building. The boys go to the central shop for their bench- 
work. All the departments are well equipped for individual work 
by twelve pupils per class. 

Each girl receives per week approximately five hours instruction 
in cookery, four hours in sewing, and three hours in laundry work. 
A genuine interest on the part of the pupils is evidenced by their 
willingness to work over hours, at recesses or after school, when the 
occasion demands it. 

Each boy receives per week one day's instruction in bench-work at 
the central shop known as the Second Ward Industrial School. It 
is the intention to introduce into this school in the course of time 
training in other trades. 

Upon satisfactorily completing the work of the various departments 
the pupils are given certificates stating exactly the training that they 
have had. The names of those receiving the certificates are kept 



19 1 2] Negro Industrial Training in Augusta 317 

on record, and so far as possible their future records as house-servants 
will be inquired into. By this plan of certification it is the purpose 
of our school system to supply the city with duly authorized and cer- 
tified cooks, laundresses, and seamstresses. So far as we know,' no 
other town or city has this plan so definitely worked out. If on 
the other hand they do not go into service, we propose to qualify them 
for keeping better homes of their own. 

Following is a copy of the form of certificate given for cookery. 
Attached to each certificate is a statement of the exact work done 
by the particular pupil to whom it is given. This is necessary for 
the reason that the course of study is still in a progressive stage, chang- 
ing and advancing from year to year. 



Public Schools of Richmond 
County 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

19 

This is to certify that 

has satisfactorily completed the Course of Study 

in Domestic Science in the „ 

...._ „ _ „ _ school. 

Principal. 

Teacher. 

Cookery Department. 

In food preparation the foundation work is upon bread making. 
Considerable skill is acquired by means of repeated reviews and vari- 
ations throughout the course. Training in all the typical forms of 



3i8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

cookery is given. The work is more elaborate and extensive than 
that in the white grade schools for the reason that in many instances 
these negro girls will obtain positions as cooks in well-to-do families, 
while the training in the white grade schools is limited to meet the 
average income. 

Much stress is laid on the proper planning and serving of meals. 
In every lesson the correct manner of serving the particular dishes 
taught is included as a very important feature, while from time to 
time there is practice in laying the table and serving whole meals. 
The girls who come under this aesthetic influence at school will not 
only be capable of giving satisfaction to their future employers, but 
will also carry the influence of the ideal into their own homes. 

We have a printed School Cook Book containing the recipes taught 
in the schools and others for home practice. In addition to practical 
manipulation, the training includes instruction in the scientific princi- 
ples involved in the processes and as much about the materials as can 
come within the comprehension of the pupils. 

Great emphasis is placed upon the formation of habits of cleanliness 
and order. This can be clearly seen in visiting one of these spotless 
school kitchens. Each pupil is taught the necessity of clean hands 
and personal neatness. No other work is allowed until the tables 
are scoured and immaculate, the stove and utensils shining and 
bright, and everything in perfect order. The equipment generally 
is in as good condition now as it was when first purchased three years 
ago. The neat young cooks always appear in white aprons and caps 
which they make in the sewing classes and keep clean and smooth 
in the laundry department. 

As should be the case in all education the leading aim in this depart- 
ment and in the others is the development of proper character in the 
pupils. With these particular children stress is placed upon those 
things that make them more responsible and dependable. The moral 
effect has been remarkable. 

Ordinarily the pupils work in groups of two, one bearing the main 
responsibility and the other assisting and observing. Each lesson 
is repeated at the following meeting of the class when the pupils ex- 
change places. By this method two very important ends are accom- 
pHshed, namely: (i) Concentration of attention and independence 
are developed, since the pupils must work entirely without the teach- 
er's suggestions in the repetition lessons; (2) more nearly normal 
quantities of materials per individual can be used than would be pos- 



1912] Negro Industrial Training in Augusta 319 

sible by a greater division. Therefore a more normal manipulation 
is obtained. 

Instruction in handling materials properly is very necessary. It 
is most important that all the experience of the school should enable 
the pupil to work practically in the home. Much of the criticism 
that has been made of domestic science courses throughout the country 
has been due to the fact that in order to keep the bills of the depart- 
ment at a minimum the pupils have been compelled to work with 
such small quantities of materials that they have been at a loss when 
undertaking to apply their knowledge at home under normal condi- 
tions. The pupils are here trained to modify the recipes to meet the 
needs of different sized families. 

The supplies for the cooking lessons are paid for out of the school 
funds. The average cost per pupil per lesson throughout the course 
is five cents. Great care is taken in the purchasing of these materials. 
The pupils are taught the principles of economical buying and are 
trained in judgment in the selection of wholesome as well as attractive 
foods. 

The cookery equipment is ample as to utensils; it includes all that 
should be in the modem well-furnished kitchen, and selected with 
judgment as to use, durability, cost, and appearance. Wood or coal 
stoves are used, but gas is to be introduced later on. There are sub- 
stantial cabinets with sliding glass doors, a largework tablewith twelve 
drawers, and sliding bread-boards, six to a side, twelve stools, a sani- 
tary sink, refrigerator, screened doors and windows, teacher's desk 
and chair, etc. The woodwork and walls are white. At the windows 
are white swiss half curtains, shades, and potted plants. Everything 
inspires happy efficient work and offers an ideal of a clean and attrac- 
tive laboratory. 

In this department, as well as in all the others, notebooks on the 
daily work are kept and the general interest is manifest from the care 
with which records are made by the pupils upon all points of instruc- 
tion. 

Sewing Department. 

Up to the present the work in the sewing classes has been based upon 
plain hand and machine processes, the application being upon towels, 
caps, sewing and cooking aprons, curtains, table linen, ironing-board 
covers, etc., to be used in the schools, and upon complete personal 
outfits for the pupils themselves. The materials for school equipment 



320 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

are paid for out of the school funds. The pupils themselves purchase 
the materials for the personal outfits. 

In the planning and making of their own clothes they are led to 
exercise judgment and taste in the selection of materials and styles. 
Strong emphasis is placed upon accuracy, neatness, and economy of 
time and material. 

The stitches are learned upon scraps of cloth. These are discarded 
as soon as sufficient skill is acquired for direct application upon the 
garment itself. 

In the cutting of garments the pupils are taught the use of pur- 
chased patterns. Through this instruction they are trained in inde- 
pendence and economy, being required to study the printed directions 
and to reason out for themselves the proper placing of the patterns 
on the materials. 

It is impossible to keep a class together in sewing work since individ- 
ual capacities assert themselves strongly. However, periodically the 
pupils are marshalled into line and class instruction given. This 
must be followed up by considerable individual assistance. 

In connection with the practical applications instruction is given 
in the history of the various implements used and the selection and 
care of different textiles, this latter point being further demonstrated 
in the laundry department and upon the hygiene of clothing. 

Upon completing the course of work the girls are capable of clothing 
themselves properly and of keeping this clothing mended and in order. 
Through it they have a foundation of knowledge and skill whereby 
they can with experience become expert seamstresses and dressmakers. 

The equipment in this department consists mainly of twelve indi- 
vidual cutting tables, one demonstration cutting table, twelve fully 
equipped sewing baskets, two sewing machines (more to be added 
later), ample cabinets for storing and displaying the work, two sta- 
tionary lavatories, blackboards, demonstration frame, waste paper 
baskets, chairs, etc. 

Considerable attention is paid to the general appearance and com- 
fort of the rooms, the endeavor always being to place the pupils in 
wholesome, uplifting environments. 

Laundry Department. 

In the laundry department the necessary principles are impressed 
through a large and varied practice. In the beginning of the course 



19 1 2] Negro Industrial Training in Augusta 321 

the work is upon the school equipment that has been made in the 
sewing classes; later in the year upon articles brought from home by 
the teachers and pupils. 

Each new process is presented to the class through demonstration 
by the teacher. In connection with the processes she develops the 
principles and reasons involved. Thus the pupils are trained to work 
intelligently as well as skillfully. Following the demonstration the 
pupils work individually. 

The certificates of proficiency given upon the completion of the work 
in this department mean that the holders are competent to do laundry 
work with a degree of skill far surpassing that of the average untrained 
washerwoman of the community. Every process has been worked 
out intelligently so that not only will the results of their work look 
better, but also from their correct methods the various fabrics will 
last longer. 

The laundries are equipped for individual work by twelve pupils. 
There are two stationary tubs for general purposes and for carrying 
off waste water. The individual washing is done in ordinary galvan- 
ized iron tubs such as the pupils will use at home. These rest upon 
benches of convenient height having rollers that they may be easily 
moved to the stationary tubs to be filled with water by means of 
hose-pipes. There are twelve ironing boards which rest upon movable 
stands. Each board is furnished with a sufficient number of irons. 
In the general equipment there are a heater with a 40-gallon boiler, 
a stove for heating the irons, charcoal iron heaters for warm weather, 
vessels for boiling the clothes and making starch, tables for sprinkling, 
baskets, etc. 

As the laundries are on the second floor a large uncovered platform 
has been built off from each for the purpose of drying the clothes. 

Bench Work. 

The boys of each school are assigned a certain day in the week for 
reporting at the second ward bench-work shop. Here they make 
articles for the schools and for their own homes. They are allowed 
to have the product of their work upon paying the cost of the raw 
materials. 

The uses of the various tools are taught in direct application upon 
interesting problems. The pupils acquire skill much more readily 
and happily through this immediate appeal to their interest than 
they ever would through abstract drill. 



322 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

All that has been said of the far-reaching effect of the industrial 
training upon the girls, could be repeated in regard to the boys. 
Under its influence they are developing into much more trustworthy 
and competent citizens. 

The following quotation from a report of one of our negro school 
principals and leading negro citizens will show that the sentiments 
expressed in this article are in accord with those felt by our negro 
himself: 

The public school is the only training school which the vast majority of colored 
boys and girls will ever enter. It ought to need no argument, then, to show that 
the things that will best prepare them for life's struggles are the best things to 
teach them in the public schools. 

Why are children sent to school? For two reasons : First, to teach them to earn 
a living, and, secondly, to teach them to enjoy what they earn. The fundamental 
reason is, of course, the first. The second reason is a secondary consideration. 
Yet it is on this phase of education — the cultural side, so-called — that the emphasis 
has been placed in the past. Really, the cart has been placed in front of the horse. 
We have been teaching the children to enjoy what they earn and have been teaching 
them to earn — nothing ! 

We now know better. We have seen our mistake and we have had the courage 
to turn around. 

To be sure, we believe in teaching the fundamentals in the literary department, 
but we are unalterably convinced by practical experience that attention must 
be given more and more to what has been called in some quarters 'the bread and 
butter side of education.' 

From another: 

Since sewing and cooking have been introduced into our school the teachers of 
the school, together with the friends, both white and colored, have remarked that 
the pupils are neater and cleaner in their personal appearance and more orderly 
and obedient in their conduct. The general effect upon their morals has been 
marked. A number of their employers have testified that they are more helpful 
to them now than they were before the work was introduced. The children them- 
selves are so interested that they are willing to work before and after the regular 
school hours. 

The following is an instance of the appreciation that the negro 
parents have of the work. In one of the schools one of the pupils 
is the daughter of a family of negro farmers who live up the country 
and send this girl down to attend our public schools during the winter 
months when there is no work for her to do in the fields. This year 
they are allowing her to stay several weeks longer than heretofore 
in order that she may advance further with the industrial work. 



19 1 2] Negro Industrial Training in Augusta 323 

The remarkable and gratifying progress of this department has 
been due to the earnest enthusiasm, untiring energies, and unfailing 
cooperation of all concerned. 

We believe that the best friend to the southern negro is the southern 
white man who realizes his limitations, sympathizes with his needs, 
and deals with him fairly and wisely for his greatest good in the com- 
munity in which he must continue to live. Such a one is the superin- 
tendent of these schools, and to him first and foremost is due credit 
for his wise selections and direction in all the development of the 
industrial training throughout the system. 



THE TEACHING OF SANITARY CHEMISTRY IN A 
WOMAN'S COLLEGE.^ 

Katharine Blunt, 
Vassar College. 

As advocates of certain practical courses in women's colleges you 
have heard often repeated the idea that college courses must be cul- 
tural or disciplinary rather than vocational. I wish to describe in 
this paper a course given at Vassar, which is markedly "disciplinary," 
but in which this quality depends in part at least upon the close con- 
nection of the subject matter with practical daily life. It helps supply 
that idol of the undergraduate, "general culture," and also opens 
her eyes to the necessity of applying the best of brain power and of 
knowledge to everyday questions. I have called it sanitary chemis- 
try, for lack of a better name, or applications of chemistry to food and 
sanitation. It is offered as a second year's course in chemistry with 
three hours of class-room work and four of laboratory. 

The subject matter of the course is the chemistry of food, water, 
and air, and their adulteration. We spend two-thirds of the time on 
food and the organic chemistry leading up to it, and, as it is impossible 
to present the chemistry of food intelligently without organic chemis- 
try, all food discussion, both in class-room and laboratory, is preceded 
by that part of pure organic chemistry with which it is closely related. 
For example, we study simple esters before fats, giving structural 
formulas and equations. We discuss optical activity in as elementary 
a way as possible, in order to use the polariscope intelligently for our 
work with sugars. We even isolate one or two amino acids from pro- 
teins and discuss the structure of the protein molecule as a complex 
polypeptid. The course is by no means symmetrical from the point 
of view of the organic chemist, but the attempt is made to give 
enough of the pure organic chemistry to make the attitude toward the 
food chemistry scientific rather than empirical. 

We also study indi\ddual typical foods as a whole — milk, meat, 
butter, flour, vinegar — their commercial preparation, their composi- 

^ Presented at the Washington Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, December, 191 1. 

324 



1912] Teaching Sanitary Chemistry 325 

tion, their nutritive value, their adulteration. The laboratory work 
here is partly qualitative, for example, the separation of the different 
components of milk; and partly quantitative, as the determination of 
the fat of milk, chocolate, and various other foods, the determination of 
the protein of a cereal breakfast food or flour by the Kjeldahl method, 
and the distinguishing between butter and oleomargarine by the 
Reichert-Meissl number as well as by the simple household tests. 

In the class-room discussion considerable emphasis is laid on the 
question of food adulteration, and in the laboratory many tests, both 
qualitative and quantitative, are made for the common adulterants, 
for coloring matters, and for preservatives. The students are encour- 
aged to bring in samples of food that they wish to test, either at inter- 
vals throughout the course when special groups of substances are 
being studied, or, with better effect, toward the end of the year, when 
they have acquired somewhat greater skill in manipulation. 

A short time is spent in reading and discussions upon dietary ques- 
tions, using in part Professor Sherman's Chemistry of Food and Nutri- 
tion. The students weigh their food for a meal and compute or deter- 
mine its value. 

The degree of accuracy possible in the laboratory work is restricted 
by the limited training of the students; but emphasis upon such accu- 
racy as is within their powers is essential. It is sometimes advantageous 
to use the fine chemical balances, but in most of the work balances as 
rough as the ordinary horn pan affairs, weighing to hundredths of a 
gram, are entirely satisfactor>-, though occasionally quantities some- 
what larger than generally required must be taken for analysis. Bu- 
rettes are used and with some care; and an understanding of the mean- 
ing of standard solutions and the general principles of volumetric 
analysis is essential if the quantitative work is to be done intelligently. 
Such knowledge can easily be given when the need for it arises. 

For our study of drinking water we are especially well situated at 
Vassar. The sources of water around us are considerably varied. 
Our main college supply in use in the dormitories comes from wells of 
excellent character, a second supply used only for the boiler and laun- 
dry is from a small stream, and much of the water of the houses near 
the college comes from shallower wells the water of which needs watch- 
ing. The college employs an analyst who keeps track of the college 
supplies and those of the neighborhood. In our course the students 
make a study of the college water in connection with the general ques- 
tion of sanitary water supplies, performing the main processes of a 



326 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

regular chemical water analysis in the laboratory of the analyst and 
under her direction, and comparing their results with hers for the same 
water, and also with hers for other waters of the neighborhood. Both 
the college waters and those of the neighborhood are of personal inter- 
est to the girls, as some of them have formerly lived "off campus" 
and used these outside supplies, or at least frequent tea-houses that 
use them. It is therefore an easy task for the instructor to encourage 
considerable reading and class-room discussion, and to make the stu- 
dents see the vital importance of proper water supplies. 

Less time is spent on air than on the other parts of the course. We 
discuss the varying composition of the atmosphere, especially the 
quantity of carbon dioxid and water vapor, their significance, their 
determination, and their regulation by proper ventilation. 

As a prerequisite for this sanitary chemistry we demand one year 
of college work in general chemistry. Ideally , for an adequate pres- 
entation of the subject matter, it would be a great advantage to have 
students who had had in addition at least qualitative and quantitative 
analysis and elementary organic chemistry. We have another course 
of somewhat similar subject matter for students with such preparation, 
but our aim in the course described above is not to train analysts 
but to make possible the understanding of the expert's analytical 
results as well as his conclusions, and to learn something of the possibi- 
lities and the limitations of chemical investigations along sanitary 
lines. In a word, we do not expect to train experts, but do hope to 
train students to an understanding of the significance of the work of 
the expert. We believe that the girl whose main interest is not scien- 
tific but who wishes to be intelligent on these important applications 
of chemistry should not be forced to take three years of specialized 
work before gaining this intelligence. This belief is in line with the 
tendency in some college departments to give brief courses for the 
general student as well as more detailed courses for those who 
specialize. 

Our ideal is to have this sanitary chemistry one of several closely 
connected courses — bacteriology, especially of water, milk, and other 
foods, with a discussion of the questions of contagion and municipal 
disinfection; physiology, emphasizing nutrition and the effects of 
various diets; and sociology, including the general civic and legal 
aspects of the pure food, water, and air campaign and in general the 
larger questions of public health. Such a program of work would be 
somewhat similar in scope to the courses in training for public health 



191 2] Teaching Sanitary Chemistry 327 

officials given at some of the larger universities. As an undergraduate 
course it would be more elementary and less thorough, but much of 
the ground covered would be the same. 

So much for the general scope of the course. To what classes of 
girls do we consider it of value, and what do we hope it will do for 
them? We believe that it should be of value to virtually all college 
students — to the young women who will live a domestic life; to those 
who will go into social work of any kind, since there sanitary problems 
are of constant and pressing importance, be the work that of friendly 
visitor or member of a hospital board; to those who expect to teach 
and who will come upon cases of improper living conditions among 
their pupils that a little knowledge might alleviate; to those who may 
go on with further study in the same line to become public health 
officials; and in general to all those young women who wish to be intel- 
ligent on a public question of almost unequaled importance and who 
wish to gain the increased culture that comes from opening the mind 
to the bearing of science on establishing wholesome living conditions. 
A remark of Mrs. Huddleston's^ gives well our belief in the value of 
this sanitary chemistry to the general student, although it does not 
mention the subject specifically. 

Without some acquaintance with biology, with bacteriology, with psychology, 
a man or woman is today almost as much cut off from the great currents of civilized 
thought and of righteous concerted action as persons unable to read and wTite have 
been for centuries past. Knowledge so fundamental, once assimilated, alters the 
whole intellectual and ethical attitude. 

What may be the value of the course to these students has in part 
been already implied. First, it should give them some practical 
knowledge that will help them to be efficient public-spirited citizens, 
not led astray by extravagant statements but ready to initiate or 
give loyal support to sane work. Second, it should imbue them thor- 
oughly with the idea that expert knowledge is needed in work that has 
to do with sanitary questions. As Dean Talbot' says: "Society ex- 
pects women to be ' casual' in their interests and work." This training 
should help to lessen that tendency and lead the students to feel that 
this is "an age whose every task," to quote Woodrow Wilson,* "is con- 
ditioned upon some intelligent and effective use of the mind, upon some 
substantial knowledge, som.e special insight, some trained capacity, 

*M. P. Huddleston, Pub. Assoc, of Collegiate Alumnae, ser. iii, no. 21, p. 36. 

* Marion Talbot, The Education of Women, Univ. of Chicago Press, 19 10. 

* Woodrow Wilson, Scrib. Mag., vol. xlvi, p. 576. 



328 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

some penetration which comes from study, not from natural readiness 
or mere practical experience." 

And third, the course should have marked disciplinary value. It is 
sufl&ciently hard to give good training purely in overcoming mental 
difficulties. It should have the additional value that comes from all 
properly managed laboratory courses — development of resourcefulness, 
self-reliance, coordination of mind and hand, power of reasoning from 
concrete observations. As its characteristic and especially valuable 
discipline, it should make the students feel that the scientific attitude 
is necessary in daily life, that the whys and wherefores of the little 
things and the big things should be explained and related. It should 
develop an intellectual curiosity about things as opposed to ideas. As 
children women seldom form the questioning habit about things around 
them as men do. A small girl, unlike a small boy, does not ask ques- 
tions of the bricklayer or the street paver or the plumber; some of the 
girls whom we have at college have not even asked questions of the 
cook. A course such as this gives them the best possible discipline in 
this direction. There is nothing essentially feminine about it, to be 
sure. I speak of it as a question in the education of young women 
because I teach young women and because there is no doubt that they 
do need such training. From it they get a little below the surface of a 
subject whose importance is obvious to them, and they gain an impulse 
toward investigating the material things of life, a desire to explain 
what they see. There is much less danger of the good college student's 
missing the intellectual joy that comes from the study of books, than 
of her missing the joy that comes from understanding things. She 
can usually reason from what she reads better than from what she sees, 
from ideas better than from facts. 

To sum up, we believe such a course in sanitary chemistry should be 
of benefit to college students, because it should give, first, certain sig- 
nificant information necessary for general culture and for efficient 
service; second, a sense of the importance of expert knowledge; and 
third, a valuable discipline arising from its difficulty, its laboratory 
method, and its training in applying the scientific attitude to ques- 
tions of daily life. 

To quote Dean Talbot^ again: "The right education gives women 
not only specffic knowledge, but vigor and breadth of view, discipline 
of character, and a freedom of mind which comes from the scientffic 
attitude." 

* Talbot, loc. cit., p. 31. 



MARKETING FACILITIES AND THEIR RELATION TO 
THE COST OF LIVING.^ 

Edward Ewing Pratt. 

New York Food Investigating Commission. 

There are two fundamental theses of this paper. The first is that 
the supplying of food is one of the most important public services in 
any community. The provision and regulation, therefore, of market- 
ing facilities are as important as the safeguarding and supervising of 
the community's transportation, gas, electricity, or water. 

The second is that the present method of supplying the community 
with food is unsystematized and wasteful. The difficulties, however, 
of marketing foodstuffs are not due to the manipulation of any group 
of men, but rather to the faulty method of marketing which exists at 
present. 

To the consumer, who may be only a casual observer of economic 
conditions, the present methods of marketing food supplies do not 
seem to be economical. He wonders oftentimes why there must be 
a store in every block, each one doing a very small business; he wonders 
why the eggs which he eats for breakfast must pass through four or 
five different dealers on their way to market, with each dealer meaning 
a loss of time, a profit, and expensive handling; his farmer friend tells 
him that farm produce brings almost nothing, and yet he knows that 
he is charged seemingly exorbitant prices at city markets; he some- 
times wonders if he is paying for the expensive delivery system that is 
maintained by the retail stores; he wonders if he is paying for the gro- 
ceries which his neighbor got on credit and did not pay for; he wonders 
if he is paying for any of the advertising when he eats his breakfast 
food. These are some of the questions which the consumer has been 
asking himself, and the lack of any satisfactory answer has made 
him alert to the situation and, perhaps, somewhat querulous. 

Of all the expenditures of a community, the expenditure for food 
is greater than that for any other item. There was a time when the 
commimity recognized that the supplying of food was a public utility. 

^ Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 19 12. 

329 



33 o The Journal of Home Economics [October 

This view seems to prevail no longer, and our food supplies are today 
almost unregulated, and have been given over to individual and pri- 
vate management. The result is often wasteful and inefl&cient methods 
of distribution. Other branches of our public services are carefully 
safeguarded and regulated by the municipal, state and federal govern- 
ments, but the food supply is largely unregulated and almost chaotic. 

From the early days of the village of New Amsterdam, there have 
been public markets in the city of New York. The farmers of Green- 
wich Village used to bring their vegetables into New Amsterdam, and 
to sell them along the water-front where the city had definitely limited 
the location of markets in which the sale of food supplies was per- 
mitted. As the city grew, market houses were needed. These were 
usually established where the people in the immediate neighborhood 
were willing to build the market house, which was then turned over 
to the city for operation. In the early part of the nineteenth century , 
the restrictions prohibiting the sale of food products by private market- 
men began to break down, and markets not under the supervision of 
the city sprang up in various parts of New York. From this time 
on, the public markets fell more and more into disuse, and failed utterly 
to keep up with the growing and changing population. 

At present, there are in New York City only two strictly retail 
markets — the Washington and Jefferson Markets. In addition, 
there are the public wholesale markets, known as the West Washington, 
Gansevoort, Wallabout, and Fulton (which does a small retail business). 

In the case of these markets, the city of New York merely acts as 
a landlord; the city provides the building, and rents out the stalls 
to retail dealers. There is considerable vacant space in both of the 
retail markets, and as a result they are a source of loss to the city. 
As a matter of fact, the city loses about $80,000 yearly in the conduct 
of its markets. 

New York City today has no definite market policy. It provides 
neither adequate wholesale nor adequate retail marketing facilities. 
The city does not even provide adequate terminal facilities for its 
food supplies. There is a crying need for some sort of regulation of 
markets and for the provision of marketing facilities in the city of 
New York. 

Food supplies, shipped to New York City from all over the country 
and the world, are brought into Manhattan, and most of them are 
discharged along the Hudson River below Twenty-third Street. It is 
quite natural that this part of Manhattan has been chosen as the chief 



1912] Marketing Facilities and the Cost of Living 331 

terminal for New York City. The physical limitations of the port of 
New York City have largely determined it. Staten Island and Long 
Island are without any direct connection with the mainland. The 
low and somewhat marshy shores of New Jersey, with a high bluff 
immediately behind them, were poor locations for steamship piers or 
railroad terminals, and only within recent years have they been used 
to any extent. Manhattan Island with its rocky and almost precipi- 
tous banks formed a model location for piers and docks. On the other 
hand, however, there are only two freight-carrying railroads which 
enter New York, namely, the New York Central and the New York, 
New Haven, and Hartford. All the other railroads, which bring in 
the aggregate the largest amount of food supplies, are without direct 
terminal facilities, and it is necessary, therefore, for them to lighter all 
their freight which enters New York City. Most of the food supplies 
of the city are moved in the early hours of the morning, and the pro- 
duce is sold, much of it on the docks and at the terminals, before 7 or 
8 o'clock in the morning. 

Food products are usually consigned by the producers to commis- 
sion men who act as the receivers; they in turn sell to jobbers. A 
commission man usually specializes on a particular kind or line of 
goods. The jobber on the other hand brings together many lines of 
goods. He usually buys a special grade which he needs for his parti- 
cular class of trade. The jobber sells to the retailer; although in 
many cases, another jobber intervenes — in New York he is the dealer, 
who has his place of business at the Harlem Market or in Attorney 
Street on the lower east side. By the time the retailer receives these 
goods, they have passed through at least four hands in New York 
City — transportation agencies, the wholesaler, the jobber, and the 
retailer. 

There is no better example of this complicated process than the way 
in which eggs are usually marketed. The producer or the farmer is 
usually very haphazard in his methods. He collects the eggs at odd 
times and more often not until he is ready to go to town. He then 
gets together all the eggs that he can find, and takes them to the coun- 
try storekeeper. The storekeeper usually pays him not in cash but 
in trade. The storekeeper in turn sells the eggs to collectors who go 
through the country gathering eggs from farmers and country store- 
keepers. The collector packs and grades the eggs and ships them in 
carload quantities to the New York market. Here they are received 
by a wholesale receiver who calls himself a commission man, although 



332 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

he may or may not be doing a strictly commission business. The 
usual practice among commission men is to sell the eggs in as large 
quantities as possible to a jobber. The commission man then returns 
the amount realized, less a commission which is usually about 5 per 
cent. 

Very often the price at which the sale is made is left to be deter- 
mined by the market quotations as printed in the daily market publi- 
cation know^n as the Price Current. The Price Current is compiled 
from figures obtained by reporters who canvass the wholesale district 
collecting the prices of commodities. The printed quotations may or 
may not represent the market, at most it succeeds only as well as the 
reporter succeeds in gauging it. The jobber, who buys from the com- 
mission man, either sells his eggs to a retailer or to another jobber who 
does business on a smaller scale. They in turn sell to the small 
retailers from whom the bulk of the population buy their eggs. When 
the eggs have finally reached the hands of the consumer, they have 
passed from the producer to the country storekeeper; from the coun- 
try storekeeper to the collector; from the collector to the transpor- 
tation agencies; from the transportation agencies to the commission 
agent or wholesale receiver; from the wholesale receiver to the large 
jobber; from the large jobber to the small jobber; from the small 
jobber to the retailer; and finally to the consumer. At each stage in 
the process, there are expenses for handling, for trucking, for storage, 
and a margin of profit. All of these charges are summed up in the 
price which the consumer pays, of which usually not more than 60 
per cent and sometimes much less than this, goes to the original pro- 
ducer. Similarly complicated and round-about processes of market- 
ing are to be found in almost every line of food supplies. Essentially 
the same thing is true of green vegetables, butter, cheese, canned 
goods, fish, poultry, milk, and many of the staple groceiies. In cer- 
tain lines, however, modifications have been made; for example in the 
marketing of western fruits and meat products. 

Much of the western fruit sold is marketed through cooperative 
organizations of producers. The orange growers of California and 
the apple growers of Colorado, Oregon, and Washington have organ- 
ized in order to eliminate as far as possible the middleman's expenses, 
to regulate the supply of fruit which may be sent to any given market, 
and to equalize the supply between seasons of scant and flush produc- 
tion. They have been eminently successful, and much over half of 
the entire supply of oranges from California is now marketed through 



1912] Marketing Facilities and the Cost of Living ^t,;^ 

one organization. As a result, the prices on oranges are steadier 
throughout the year, and the producer through his cooperative organi- 
zation becomes a direct marketer of his products. 

In the marketing of meat, a similar change has taken place. ,In 
this case, of course, a manufacturing process, namely, the slaughter- 
ing, intervenes between the producer and the consumer. What has 
happened in this industry is that all steps in the process between the 
producer and the retailer have been centralized under one manage- 
ment from which undoubted economies accrue. However, the form 
of organization, instead of benefiting either the producer or the con- 
sumer, has become a monopolistic abuse, and probably an additional 
cause for dissatisfaction rather than any solution of the problem. 

By one other method is the producer reaching the consumer more 
directly than the ordinary course of marketing; this is through the 
development of the package trade, which is becoming more and more 
important. By means of the package with a distinct label, the manu- 
facturer is able to reach the consumer direct without the intervention 
of the middleman. Offsetting this gain, however, is the tremendous 
advertising expense, which it is not too much to say far outweighs the 
expenses and profits of the middleman. As a matter of fact, goods of 
exactly the same grade as those ordinarily put up in well-known pack- 
ages, are sold in bulk at a very much lower price. A good example of 
this is flour. A quality of flour, exactly similar to that sold under a 
well-known name, may be purchased at from 85 cents to $1 less on the 
barrel — and this does not mean that the flour must be bought in barrel 
quantities. It is, of course, reasonable that this should be the case 
because the expense of advertising is a tremendous one. 

The fault which I have to find with our present system of marketing 
is not especially due to the rapacity or dishonesty of any group of men. 
There is no one group of distributors, even of food products, which is 
getting particularly rich at the expense of the consumer. The diffi- 
culty with the present system is simply that it is an obsolete, uneco- 
nomical, and wasteful arrangement of facilities for marketing food 
products. The middleman himself is as much a victim of the system 
as is the consumer. 

The general high level of prices, of which we read much in the public 
prints and of which we hear so much discussion, is due in the last analy- 
sis to certain fundamental causes, chief among which is the increase in 
the supply of gold — the cheapening of our medium of exchange. If 
the monetary unit in which all values are measured decreases, then 



334 2"^^ Journal of Home Economics [October 

the other side of the equation, namely, the price of commodities, must 
increase. Therefore, we find that prices are rising rapidly not only in 
the United States, but also throughout the entire world. 

Among the various groups of commodities, however, food prices 
have risen more rapidly than the prices of many other groups of com- 
modities. For instance the prices of food products have increased 
more rapidly than the prices of clothing, metals, fuel, etc. This is 
due in a large part to the fact that the food producing areas of this 
country have been greatly reduced, and that population has been 
rapidly increasing. The trucking areas about our large cities have 
been curtailed, and have been filled by a rapidly enlarging urban popu- 
lation which is pushing out into the suburbs with its homes. The 
farms which were formerly used for the production of staple food 
products are being converted into truck gardens. The grazing areas 
of the west, which have been used for the raising of cattle, are being 
converted into farms for the production of our staple agricultural 
products. Cattle raising has been pushed into the least fertile regions, 
and much of the industry has been forced entirely out of the country. 
The margin of production is being forced further and further from the 
fertile lands, and less and less fertile lands with higher costs of produc- 
tion have taken their place. Our tariff wall has also prevented the free 
entrance of food products — not so much on account of duties leveled 
directly against them as on account of the fact that the whole course 
of international trade has not been able to develop freely on account 
of our tariff wall. 

A remedy for high prices will probably never be found in this coun- 
try. For any considerable period of time, we may look forward to a 
period of continued high prices. This is especially true of food prod- 
ucts, because it will be increasingly difficult for our agriculture to 
keep pace with a rapidly increasing population. This fact should 
make, and is making, us more careful about our methods of doing 
business and should lead us to eliminate as much waste and inefficiency 
in our methods of production and marketing as is possible. 

Greater efficiency in marketing and production may be obtained, 
first, through intensive agriculture, and secondly, through simplified 
and systematized methods of marketing. In case of the latter, the 
essential object to be attained is the bringing of the producer closer 
to the consumer by eliminating as many of the intermediate steps and 
intermediate expenses as possible. The way in which the producer 
may be brought closer to the consumer is not to be found in any one 



1912] Marketing Facilities and the Cost of Living 335 

method or in any one improvement. This end can be accomplished 
only by a general and comprehensive plan of improvement. Some 
suggestions based on experience here and abroad, may however be 
made, which ■v\-ill show how some of the intermediate steps in marketing 
may be eliminated. 

(i) For the producer one of the most hopeful developments in 
recent years has been that of cooperative marketing. I have already 
mentioned the success which has attended the efforts of the fruit 
growers of the west. Cooperative marketing by producers will do 
away not only with the middleman, but with much of the poor grading, 
carelesspacking, and wrong handling of products, which are so preva- 
lent today. The essential functions of a producers' distributive organ- 
ization are (a) to bring the products as directly to the market as possi- 
ble; (b) to encourage the best methods of production; (c) to handle 
and pack the products as carefully and as scientifically as possible; 
(d) to grade products at their point of production rather than to have 
this done by an intermediate agent; (e) to stand for and to be respon- 
sible for a certain grade or a certain line of products; and (f) where 
necessary to act as a credit organization, to furnish credit to the mem- 
bers of the organization where needed. 

(2) Doubtless one of the most expensive features in the process of 
marketing food produce, especially in our large cities (and nowhere 
is this so evident as in New York City), is the arrangement or rather 
the lack of arrangement of terminal facilities. In New York City for 
example, we find goods being brought into the city, oftentimes directly 
through the great and growing population of the Bronx, do-WTi to the 
lower West Side. Here the wholesale market is located and the great 
bulk of the food products for New York City is unloaded. Food 
destined for Harlem and the Bronx must then be carted from six to 
twelve miles. Carting is a ver>' ex-pensive item in New York City, 
on account of the congested condition of the streets and the hea\'y 
fixed expenses incident to a large city. With a more economical 
arrangement of terminals or with some sort of transportation facilities 
for wholesale food products, perhaps a marginal railroad, and with the 
establishment of wholesale markets, at least in the various boroughs, 
a large part of this trucking expense could be eliminated. 

(3) Retail organization might also be somewhat affected by cer- 
tain changes in the methods of doing business. No one who has 
visited England can have failed to observ-e the success of the cooper- 
ative retail distributive organizations there. A large part of the popu- 



336 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

lation are members of these organizations, and are thus able to save a 
considerable portion of the prices which obtain in the private retail 
stores. The cooperative retail organizations are not always able to 
buy singly from manufacturers and producers, but in the true spirit 
of cooperation they are able to cooperate one with another and to buy 
their supplies in large quantities direct from the producer and the 
manufacturer. 

The real function of public markets is the bringing together as closely 
as possible the producer and consumer. In New York City this func- 
tion has entirely disappeared, and the city has become merely a land- 
lord, from whom the retail stall owner rents his place of business. A 
municipal market, with a real market function, would receive the prod- 
ucts direct from the farmer or producer and sell them by municipal 
agency direct to the consumer on a commission basis. A municipal 
market would doubtless be able to gain a trade sufficient to dispose of 
all qualities of goods and it would then be possible for a producer to 
send his products direct to the municipal market and have them sold 
at retail where he would be able to obtain the highest price possible. 

Another method of afifecting the retail distribution of food supplies 
is the organization of a semi-philanthropic retail company with limited 
dividends. Such a company would act as a check on high prices by 
means of competition, and with a sufficiently large organization, which 
might very well be in the form of a chain of large retail markets hand- 
ling a varied line of food supplies, would be able to buy direct from the 
producer or manufacturer. With limited dividends and with public 
statements of earnings and prices, the consumer would have confidence 
in such an agency and would be able to check any extraordinary or 
unwarranted rise of prices. 

(4) There are other minor suggestions which would tend to simplify 
the processes of marketing. The setting up of standard grades for 
canned goods, flour, and various package commodities would ena- 
ble the housewife to buy goods of a given quality no matter under 
what label or brand, or no matter how extensively advertised they 
might be. 

The publication of wholesale prices of food commodities would 
doubtless do much to restrict the high prices of the retailer. It would 
enable the consumer to find out exactly what are the wholesale costs 
of goods laid down in New York. The publication of wholesale prices 
is one of the explanations as to why such staples as sugar and flour are 
sold on such a narrow margin. 



19 1 2] Laundry Problem in New York City 337 

If the supplying of a community with its food supplies is a public 
utility, and if that service is now being rendered in a wasteful and 
inefficient method under private management and control, it is a per- 
tinent question why should not the municipality or the state step in 
with some sort of regulation. At least a publication at specified times 
of the prices of foods will enable the consumer to get a correct and com- 
prehensive idea of exactly what is going on. The problem is not one 
that can be handled without careful study or by persons unfamiliar 
with the difficulties and complexities of the situation. On the other 
hand, it is a problem which needs a careful, all-round treatment, and 
should not be attacked piecemeal, but only with a comprehensive 
plan of future development. 

THE LAUNDRY PROBLEM IN NEW YORK CITY.» 
Helen Woodford Pratt. 

Assistant Secretary of the Consumers' League of the City of New York. 

It is a well known fact that as our civilization grows more complex* 
as industry and enterprise are more and more taking people away 
from their homes, the work of maintaining the home must be lessened, 
not only because the housewife has often not the amount of time she 
used to have, but because she has not the space and proper facilities 
for carr\'ing on all processes that were at one time her chief occupation. 
This will account to us for the fact that there are approximately 6000 
hand laundries and 250 steam laundries in the city of New York. 
These laundries could not remain in existence had they not enough 
trade to keep them busy and justify their continuance. The impor- 
tant thing at the present moment is to make the housewife realize that 
she is as responsible for the conditions under which her "wash" is 
done in these factory laundries as if that laundry were being done in her 
own home. It is the very ignorance of most women on this subject 
that makes the situation so acute, for if they would investigate the 
conditions under which much of their personal and household linen is 
washed they would realize not only the extent of the menace to the 
public health because of the unsanitary conditions, but they would 
also see how many men and women in the trade suffer because of the 
unorganized and chaotic state it is in at present. 

1 Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 1912. 



338 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

From our point of view the strike of the laundry workers last winter 
was of immense value because it brought before the public a vast 
number of startling truths which before they had not been aware of. 
The strike was called on what the State Board of Mediation and Arbi- 
tration later pronounced to be very legitimate grounds. The workers 
complained of the long hours, comparatively low wages, and in some 
cases, unsanitary conditions that were intolerable. They demanded 
a 54-hour week with a regulation of daily hours; the women workers 
demanded a scale of wages with a $6 minimum, and a $15 maximum, 
except in the case of hand ironers, who were to be paid by the piece, 
and who during a good week are able to make between $15 and $20, 
The Board of Mediation and Arbitration held hearings for several 
days in succession. The witnesses testified under oath and told stories 
of long hours and difficult working conditions that in most cases had 
the ring of sincerity, A member of the Consumers' League made an 
intensive investigation of a few laundries during the winter of 19 10, 
but the League felt that last winter a more extensive one should be 
made and accordingly 6q laundries were visited between the months 
of November and March inclusive. 

It might be well to briefly describe the different types of laundries. 
First let us take the "flat work" laundries: These laundries are 
usually very large and employ a great number of unskilled women 
and a proportionate number of men washers. As their name might 
convey, they do only flat work, that is, bed and table linen for hotels, 
steamships, Pullman and parlor cars. The hours in these laundries 
are of necessity very irregular. The hotel linen comes in pretty 
regularly, but the amount varies greatly, according to the season of 
the year. The steamship and Pullman car work is very hard to reg- 
ulate. A steamer comes in late but the laundry must get her work 
done even though it has one or two days less than usual. These 
laundries are therefore never able to regulate their work so that it 
averages under a 60-hour week. The women employed in these laun- 
dries work chiefly on the mangles. This is not very skilled work, as 
already pointed out, is not paid well, and therefore draws a rather low 
type of workers. 

Another and perhaps the most important type of laundry is the 
"rough dry" laundry, so-called because it returns clothes in a rough 
dry condition. These laundries formed the storm centerof the strike, 
for we see in them the worst features of the trade. The "rough 
dry" laundry is also a factory steam laundry, and its particular func- 



1912] Laundry Problem in New York City 339 

tion is the doing of washing and starching for the hundreds of little 
so-called hand laundries scattered through the city. A cut-throat 
competition exists among these "rough dry" laundries for the work of 
the hand laundry. Every proprietor of a "rough dry" laundry 
acknowledges that he can not do the washing at the low rate at which 
he does it and make it pay, but if he sets his price at ten cents a net, 
a competing laundr>^ may send out an agent to the hand laundries 
and offer to do their work for five cents a net, making it impossible 
for the other man to retain his higher price and still keep his clientele. 
These laundries receive the work from the hand laundries in nets, 
and these nets are acknowledged to be the greatest evil of the laundry 
trade. 

Still another type of laundry is the "wet wash" laundry. These 
are run much as the "rough dry" laundries only they do not dry 
the clothes. They return them either to the hand laundry or direct 
to the customer, wrung out but still very damp. These laundries 
as well as the rough dry laundries do their biggest business with the 
hand laundries. 

The fourth t>'pe of laundr}' is the "bundle" laundry, so-called 
because of the fact that they have their own branch stores and collect 
the bundles of laundry directly from their customers, returning them 
direct when finished. This is by far the best t>'pe of laundr>'. They 
have the most particular trade; people who want their work to be 
done under good conditions and done well and who are willing to pay 
for it. There is much less competition among this class of laundries, 
as very few of them do any work for the hand laundries. The prices 
among the "bundle" laundries are almost identical, and it is simply a 
question with them of securing and maintaining a good private trade. 

The last class to be considered is the so-called "hand" laundry: 
This name is a farce, as in the course of our investigation we only 
found two "hand" laundries that actually did their o%\ti washing on 
the premises. The remaining 5998 sent their clothes to be washed at 
the "rough dry" laundries or in a few cases, the "wet wash" laun- 
dries. The " hand" laundries do their own ironing and for this reason 
lay claim to their name, but "bundle" laundries also iron by hand, 
and the contrast in working conditions between the little crowded 
"hand" laundry and the large well-equipped "bundle" laundry is 
not advantageous to the former. 

In our investigation of 69 laundries, 19 were "flat work," 17 were 
"rough dry," 6 were "wet wash," 14 were "bundle," and 12 were 



340 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

"hand" laundries. Only 6 laundries in New York City had signed up 
with the Union. We investigated them thoroughly, and found that 
in every case the wages and hours were unusually good (of necessity 
because they were scaled by the Union) but the sanitary conditions in 
all but one instance were very bad. 

As a result of our investigations we came to the conclusion that the 
crying evils of the laundry trade were (i) the useof nets, (2) the irreg- 
ular hours, and (3) the bitter competition among the ''rough dry" 
laundries. 

As to the first point, the nets resemble heaAy fish nets and hold from 
ten to twenty pounds of clothes. Each "hand" laundry has a supply 
of them and sends its work done up in this way to the "rough dry" 
laundry. The nets are not supposed to weigh more than ten pounds, 
but in a great many instances they weigh nearer fifteen, and it makes 
their handling very difiicult. Their weight is practically tripled 
after washing, so that a net weighing ten pounds before weighs thirty 
after being washed, and one weighing fifteen weighs forty-five pounds. 
The men complain of the great difiiculty of lifting these heavy nets 
from the wash wheels to the extractors, and one of the demands of 
the Union is that no man shall be required to handle a net weighing 
over ten pounds when dry. 

This, however, is not the worst feature of the system. The greatest 
objection to the use of the net is the fact that every one's clothes are 
mixed together with no regard for the varying degrees of cleanliness 
and the fact that some clothes might require a more thorough washing 
than others. The thought of one's linen being washed thus promis- 
cuously is not pleasant and I think few women realize the danger of 
the easy spread of disease made possible by this method. The only 
assorting undertaken is done by the hand laundries. They are forced 
to separate colored from white clothes, as a strong bleaching fluid, used 
in the washing of the white nets, would be fatal to colored garments. 
This bleaching fluid, though the housewife may justly complain that 
it rots her clothes, performs an exceedingly valuable ofl&ce. It is so 
strong that even medical authorities acknowledge it to be a perfectly 
adequate disinfectant. The so-called colored net is left however with- 
out any sanitary precautions being taken in its behalf. Colored 
clothes cannot stand the bleaching fluid and are therefore washed in a 
very mild solution, which has little disinfecting power and makes the 
mixing of clothes in these nets an exceedingly dangerous and unsani- 
tary proceeding. Commissioner Williams, after he had gone into the 



1912] Laundry Problem in New York City 341 

subject of nets very thoroughly, felt that we were in dire need of legis- 
lation to regulate their handling and if possible we should secure legis- 
lation to abolish them. If the net could be abolished it would not 
only do away with the most unsanitary features of the laundry trade 
but it would lessen to a great extent the competition among the 
"rough dry" laundries, for the question of the price of washing per 
net would not be involved at all, and the prices charged would have to 
be put on a different basis, probably one similar to that of the " bundle" 
laundries. 

The second evil mentioned, that of irregular hours, affects the 
worker directly, whereas the first affected chiefly the consumer. It 
might be well to mention here, however, that the washer who handles 
the nets before they are bleached runs a great danger of catching some 
disease, as many contagious diseases can be thus contracted. 

To return to the irregularity of the hours, here again the "hand" 
laundries are very much to blame. They send their nets to the 
"rough dry" establishments and demand that they shall be done 
within a certain time, most often within a very short time. They have 
no regular system of delivering their work to the " rough dry" laundry. 
They do not request their customers to send their work at regular 
intervals and therefore in the long run the employee of the "rough 
dry" laundry has to suffer because of this lack of system. An average 
week as testified to by the majority of the more skilled workers in 
laundries, that is hand ironers, collar dampeners, and feeders and 
starchers is as follows: Mondays, i p.m. to 9 p.m.; Tuesday, 7:30 a.m. 
to 8 p.m.; Wednesday, 7:30 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Thursday, 7:30 a.m. to 
10 p.m. ; Friday, 7 130 a.m. to 10 p.m. ; and Saturday, no work, making 
(with an hour for dinner) a total of 60 working hours a week. 

This is a legal week under the factory regulations, but the 3 long 
days of 13^ working hours each, coming in direct succession, are illegal, 
as the law sets a 12-hour limit to the working day. The strain on the 
worker, because of these long days, is very great and the rest at the 
end of the week is often not adequate. The women complain of the 
physical strain. The long hours of standing (often on damp floors) 
combined with the real physical effort required by the various proc- 
esses, tells on them eventually and many a woman has to leave the 
trade a cripple from rheumatism or broken down generally. The 
laundry trade has no distinctive "industrial disease," but rheumatism 
is common among workers in laundries where the drainage system 
is inadequate. 



342 T}ie Journal of Home Economics [October 

The particular woman who gave this schedule was a collar starcher, 
earning a flat wage of $io a week; she had an hour for dinner in the 
middle of the day but ate her supper as she worked. There were many 
women who testified to working until 11:30, 12 and even i o'clock at 
night as quite an ordinary thing. These women, though they received 
no extra pay, were generally piece workers, and during a heavy week 
their wages sometimes went up as high as $18. 

We feel that if the " hand" laundries could be forced to regulate their 
deliveries to the "rough dry" laundries and the latter could be made to 
plan a regular week without the free morning on Monday and with a 
half day on Saturday, the work would then be fairly equalized and the 
workers would not feel the strain so keenly. The "hand" laundries 
would need the cooperation of the consumer, in order to do this. No 
woman should consider it her prerogative to go into a laundry with a 
bundle of her husband's collars and shirts and insist that they should 
be sent to her the next evening. She is only adding her share to the 
tremendous amount of irregularity already in existence, and she should 
plan as she would in her home, to have the laundry done on a certain 
day and not expect it to be returned before a reasonable length of 
time. The Union demands a perfectly regular week, the hours being 
from 7:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. on every day except Saturday, and Satur- 
day from 8 a.m. to 12 noon. 

As a whole, wages in laundries seem to be fairly good. A girl can 
earn a good deal more in a laundry than she can in a department store, 
but her hours are longer, her surroundings less agreeable, and she has 
fewer holidays and scarcely ever a vacation. As stated before, wages 
differ very greatly in the various types of laundries. The "bundle" 
laundries have undoubtedly the best buildings, the best equipment, 
and in most cases perfectly sanitary conditions, but as a rule their 
wages are lower than in the "rough dry" laundries. In most "bundle" 
laundries the little girls who shake out for the mangle girls (this is the 
lowest position in a laundry) receive sometimes as low as $4 a week; 
the mangle girls average $5; the collar girls $7; the starchers and 
ironers anywhere from $8 to $15. In the "rough dry" laundries the 
wages do not run very much higher than $15 but the little girls are 
generally started at $4.50 or $5. 

One might judge that a logical explanation of this is the fact that the 
"rough dry" laundries have not expensive plants to keep in order, have 
not expensive equipment to keep in repair, and that they spend very 
little money on sanitary precautions or on improving conditions for 



igi2] Laundry Problem in New York City 343 

their employees. We believe that in the industrial world wages and the 
length of the working day are foremost in importance to the worker, 
but we believe that also the menace to the health of the whole commu- 
nity, which is involved when work is allowed to go on under such con- 
ditions, is certainly next in importance. Therefore the Consumers' 
League urges the patronizing of the big thoroughly organized and 
splendidly equipped "bundle" laundries. In almost every case the 
proprietors of these establishments would be glad to raise the wages of 
their employees if they could do that and at the same time maintain 
an expensive plant. We feel that if the weight of public favor could 
be thrown on the side of these large laundries the hundreds of the 
small laundries could not remain in existence and in that way many 
unsanitary plants would be closed. 

One can make several logical suggestions for improvements in the 
inspection and regulation of laundries. Considering laundries from 
the standpoint of the public health it would be an invaluable remedy 
for the situation if we could have regular supplementary inspection by 
the Board of Health. The Board of Health has power to act at once 
upon anything they feel interferes with the public welfare. If, there- 
fore, their inspection could be supplemented to the inspection of the 
labor department, they could look after the distinctly sanitary side of 
the problem and could confiscate objectionable nets or condemn inade- 
quate drainage systems or do anything which they felt would lessen 
the dangers of the trade. 

Another practice which we feel needs corrective legislation is the 
placing of laundries in basements. Out of the 69 laundries visited, 
5 did their entire work in the basement and 13 had their wash kitchens 
there. This is exceedingly objectionable as the air in a basement is 
apt to be poor at best, and as it is very difficult to prevent steam from 
escaping in the wash kitchens it makes the atmosphere almost unbear- 
able. The dampness also is increased, and as the floors are generally 
quite wet under the best conditions, it makes it a dangerous thing for 
the washers to stand on them hour after hour. We feel that the proper 
place for a wash room is on the top floor of a building where good venti- 
lation is more easily secured. We found only two laundries having 
their wash rooms on the top floor. Of the laundries investigated 19 
occupied one floor only, so that every process went on in the same room. 
This is also undesirable, as the wash kitchens are not separated and 
it means that the steam permeates the whole floor. We would urge 
legislation in this line just as we urge it regarding cellar bakeries. 



344 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Persons desiring to establish laundries should first be compelled to 
secure a license, and licenses should not be issued for cellar laundries. 

The practice which needs the most immediate and stringent atten- 
tion however, is the use of nets. The best thing would be to abolish 
their use entirely, but even so, the problem of the colored clothes 
would still remain. Physicians have recommended that these clothes 
be put through the hot air sterilizing process, which is used by the 
Board of Health in cases of clothing belonging to persons who have 
had contagious diseases. This would be a rather expensive plant for 
laundries to install, but the majority of laundries have drying rooms 
and there is no reason why they could not put in a similar apparatus 
to disinfect the clothes. 

This whole problem is one that must be solved by the consumer. 
We can no longer plead ignorance. We know of the very undesirable 
conditions which exist; we know of the grave dangers we are running; 
we know how the irregularity of the trade causes the long hours; we 
also know that it lies within our power to remedy this irregularity 
to a great extent. The general public must be made even more fami- 
liar with the fallacy of the "hand" laundry, and with the unsanitary 
conditions of many of the "rough dry" laundries. Then we must 
urge the patronizing of the finely organized factory laundries with 
their comparatively short hours and excellent working conditions. 
With the favor thrown their way it will simply be a case of the survival 
ot the fittest. 



SCHOOL LUNCHES AND MEDICAL INSPECTION.' 

Ira S. Wile, M.S., M.D. 

New York City. 

If we approach the problem of school lunches and medical inspec- 
tion with a consciousness that they are interdependent and cooper- 
ating to secure the same end, we shall better appreciate their educa- 
tional importance. The school lunch problem is not essentially new. 
At present, because of various experiments in this country, it stands out 
in relative importance as compared with the sown field of medical 
inspection wherein a wider experience has demonstrated its educa- 
tional value. The purposes of school lunches and medical inspection 
are largely identical. Both are designed to act in a preventive and 
curative way in all phases of physical and mental health. Medical 
inspection seeks in part to eliminate contagious diseases from the pub- 
lic schools, while school lunches aim to increase the resistance of chil- 
dren to contagious diseases. Medical inspection seeks out physical 
and mental defects; school lunches aim to prevent or relieve physical 
or mental defects. The common ground of school lunches and medical 
inspection might well be said to be the prevention, determination, and 
relief of malnutrition. 

Harrington has well stated that education must consider the stu- 
dent as the subject of its teaching. It is easy enough to change teach- 
ers and to alter curricula, but much skill and judgment are required 
to secure improved physique and mentality of children that they may 
glean the greatest amount of education from the fields of knowledge in 
which they are permitted to browse. Intellectual development and 
physical improvement are interwoven. The basis of an impaired 
mentality is what the educator must seek. Possibly malnutrition 
is the origin, if so the cure might be in the school lunch. The great 
diflSculty with the statistics of medical inspection is that while they 
record many symptoms they fail to tabulate the causative factors. 
The personal equations of the examiners and the lack of judgment in 
differentiating the significant defects render most of the available 
statistics of little value. 

^ Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 1912. 

345 



346 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Porter of St. Louis has demonstrated that well-developed children 
take a higher rank than under-developed children of the same age. 
There is a noteworthy ratio between physical defects and school 
progress; in brief, the more defects, the slower the advance in school. 

In the twelfth report of Dr. Maxwell we find this statement: " Pro- 
vision should be made in all schools for supplying food at cost price 
to the pupils in the middle of the day." The educational context 
of this sentence indicates that some educators are beginning to appre- 
ciate the necessity of full stomachs for the school children as a pre- 
requisite to securing full minds. I do not mean by the expression " full 
stomach" the ordinary common interpretation of quantity, but of the 
quantity and quality which is essential for the maintenance of physical 
health and mental improvement. As Bacon states "the brain is in 
some sort in the custody of the stomach." 

It is most striking that lunches are now being supplied to cripples, 
anemics, tuberculous, and sub-normal children of various types for 
curative purposes after the medical inspector has called attention to the 
physical deterioration of the children. Far more sane, far more wise 
would it be to seek to afford sufficient nourishment to school children 
in order to maintain them in health or to raise their standard of physi- 
cal condition, instead of placing a premium upon disease as the basis of 
securing the benefit of school lunches. 

In every community there are many poorly fed children, the inade- 
quacy of whose diet is shown in part as anemia, underweight, enlarged 
glands, and similar symptoms. Available school lunches would be a 
boon to such children and are essential for supplying proper nutri- 
ment to many children going to school from homes that are unable to 
supply the requisite daily food, either from ignorance or poverty or 
both. 

Malnutrition is a factor, though to be sure not the only one, in the 
etiology of tuberculosis, adenitis (enlarged glands), anemia, defects 
in vision, chorea (St. Vitus Dance), and functional disorders. The 
immense proportion of dental defects has been given undue attention 
without appreciating the fact that the permanent teeth develop during 
the school period. The importance of proper food for the develop- 
ment of dental structure has been lost sight of in contemplating the 
enormous number of cavities. Poor food, deficient in lime and other 
salts, means poor teeth and consequent decay. As the result of decay, 
infection, and tooth-ache, proper mastication becomes impossible, 
appetite decreases, malnutrition supervenes. There then results a 



1912] School Lunches and Medical Inspection 347 

lessened supply of food for dental growth and more decay ensues and 
a vicious circle is formed. 

A second factor in malnutrition to which insufficient attention has 
been given, is the effect of the under-nourishment of the years previoys 
to a child's entrance upon school. The relative starvation in proteids, 
lime, iron, calcium and magnesium during the first five years of life 
produces the child suffering from malnutrition upon entrance to the 
public school. The report of the medical inspector, however, will 
probably class such a child as belonging to the group with such physi- 
cal defects as enlarged tonsils, anemia, or enlarged glands. The diag- 
nosis of malnutrition is not made if any other defect is present. The 
dependence of such defect upon malnutrition is not entered into the 
record and so the statistics of medical inspection as related to mal- 
nutrition are decidedly false and misleading. 

School lunches are serviceable to the growing children by supplying 
nutrients that are not adequately secured in the home. In addition 
to the physical betterment there is a distinct educational gain through 
the improved mentality of the child. If one recognizes the advantages 
of feeding anemic children and tuberculous children, it seems unques- 
tionably of advantage to afford similar opportunities to the brothers 
and sisters of these weakest children so as to prevent their physical 
deterioration. Chronic underfed children are far more vulnerable to 
contagious disease and more susceptible to protracted colds and bron- 
chitis. Their poor musculature and sluggish circulation make them 
more likely to fall victims to the various diseases to which they are 
exposed through the intimacy of school life, and as a result their ab- 
sences are more numerous. For the same reason their convalescence 
is retarded, their complications are more numerous, and their loss of 
education and training through absence is far greater than that of 
other children of the same age in a better state of nutrition. One of 
the underlying factors in chorea is a disturbance of nutrition. The 
New York Committee on the Physical Welfare of School Children 
found 26.2 per cent of chorea among children suffering from malnu- 
trition as opposed to only 3.6 per cent for 1400 children examined by 
them. 

In view of our present clamor for fresh air classes, it is essential to 
consider the necessity of school lunches, inasmuch as increased feeding 
is required to enable children to live comfortably and study in the 
open air during the cold seasons of the year. 

Viewing it from another angle, school lunches mean better digcs- 



348 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

tion, less bolting of food, and a diminution of the use of pushcart pro- 
ducts. Healthful, clean, and nutritious foods offset the adulterated, 
dusty, irritating articles of diet found for sale on the street corners. 
Bustle and fear of tardiness are eliminated and the tendency to func- 
tional nervous disorders is lessened. The purpose of school lunches is 
not to relieve acute hunger, but to relieve chronic underfeeding. Ho- 
garth has defined malnutrition as "an abnormal or disordered growth 
in the development of the tissues and organs of a child's body not 
necessarily synonymous with underfeeding," and he wisely states: 
"Malnutrition is at once the most common, and until recently, the 
least observed of all the unrecognized diseases and affections among 
children attending elementary schools." The problem of malnutri- 
tion is not concerned merely with the breakfastless children or those 
without any particular single meal, but with all the children who for 
long periods of time are receiving at home a dietary that is not adapted 
to their needs, and in consequence of which there is marked physical 
deterioration. If we consider the amount of malnutrition throughout 
the country, we can more readily appreciate the truth of this state- 
ment. 

Dr. McMillan of Chicago found 15.9 per cent of kindergarten children 
physically below par and estimated that underfeeding was the cause in 
II per cent. Dr. MacKenzie regards one-third of all the school chil- 
dren in Edinburgh as poorly nourished. Dr. Maxwell is reported as 
saying to the National Educational Association in 1904 that there are 
hundreds of thousands of children unable to learn because of hunger. 
Dr. Francis Warner and Hack Tucke found 28.5 per cent of London 
school children suffering from deficient feeding. The New York Com- 
mittee on the Physical Welfare of School Children in 1907 declared 13 
per cent of 990 children examined to be suffering from malnutrition, 
and Dr. Sill in 1909 estimated that 40 per cent of the children in the 
elementary schools of New York City were illy nourished. The New 
York School Lunch Committee in 1910 in an examination of 2150 
children adjudged 13 per cent to be marked cases of malnutrition. In 
Chicago in 1908, of over 10,000 children examined 12 per cent were 
reported as suffering from malnutrition. In Boston in 1909, under- 
feeding was found in 16 per cent of over 5000 children. In Phila- 
delphia in 19 10, 24 per cent of 500 children examined were found to be 
suffering from underfeeding. In St. Paul in 1910, 20 per cent of 3200 
children in schools in the poorer districts were reported as mani- 
festing the evidences of marked underfeeding. 



1912] School Lunches and Medical Inspection 349 

What does all this underfeeding mean? It means that the school 
lunch problem is far more vital than has been considered. The prob- 
lem of under-nourishment has scarcely been touched. I admit that 
the causes of under-nourishment are numerous and closely connected 
with faulty housing, overcrowding, low wages, under-employment, 
alcoholism, poor hygiene, and ignorance of food values. This is far 
different from the acute hunger which forces families to seek aid from 
organized charity. 

Taking the estimate of Dr. Underbill, based upon the price of foods 
in 1907, that 22 cents per day per man is the minimum expenditure 
for food permitting a normal family to maintain physical efficiency, 
we can appreciate the economic basis of much of our malnutrition. 
The Committee on the Standard of Living in New York City has 
established $825 as a conservative estimate of the amount necessary 
to maintain a proper standard of living in the Borough of Manhattan. 
This means an average weekly income for 52 weeks of $16 a week. 
The effect of income on child growth has been shown by an analysis 
of the average height and weight of school children in Liverpool, 
where at seven years the wealthy children measured 3 feet 1 1 f inches 
and weighed 49 pounds, while poor children measured 3 feet 8 inches 
and weighed only 43 pounds. At 14 years their heights and weights 
were respectively 5 feet if inches and 94^ pounds as compared with 
4 feet 7 inches and 71 pounds. 

In a memorandum of the British Board of Education we find noted: 
"Medical inspection seeks to secure ultimately for every child, normal 
or defective, conditions of life compatible with the true education, 
which is that free and effective development of its organic functions, 
special senses, and its mental powers." That this opinion is shared in 
the United States is evidenced by the provisions for exceptional chil- 
dren in this country. In 898 cities there are 207 schools for backward 
children, 94 for defectives, and 25 open air schools, while 444 cities 
provide for physical examination for defects. 

The symptoms of malnutrition which have been overlooked are 
noted as anemia, pallor, muscular weakness, squints, diseases of the 
external eye, lassitude, inattention, backwardness, and mental dull- 
ness. Among the results are stunted growth, delayed physical and 
mental development, weaknesses of the spine, increased susceptibility 
to infectious diseases, and marked liability to tuberculosis. Twenty- 
five per cent of our public school children fail to attend school 75 per 
cent of the time. Preventable disease is a large factor in this unfor- 



3SO 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[October 



tunate number of absences, and malnutrition plays no small part in 
preparing the soil for such preventable diseases. 

In Berlin in 1906 and 1907 8.7 per cent of the children entering school 
for the first time were barred because of ill health, and 25.8 per cent of 
the children were placed under observation because of defects. 

Dr. Van der Slice through a questionnaire to school principals as 
to the causes leading to the lowering of vitality of school children, 
received the information from teachers that 42 per cent of the stress 
in the first grade and 12 per cent in the seventh grade is due to poorly 
cooked, innutritions, or insufficient food. Dr. Gastpar of Stuttgart 
has demonstrated that the proportion of defects varies with the state 
of nutrition of the school children, and the better the state of the nutri- 
tion, the fewer the number of defects. 

The reports of medical inspections are not uniform as may be judged 
by the fact that in 1906 malnutrition was reported in New York City 
as 6.3 per cent while Minneapolis in 1908 reported 23.3 per cent. It is 
obvious that such disproportion does not exist. This fact is accen- 
tuated by a comparison of the diseases and defects in the two cities, 
which are closely related to the problems of malnutiition. For exam- 
ple: 

Relative prevalence of diseases in school children. 



KIND OP DISEASE. 



Anterior cervical glands enlarged. 
Posterior cervical glands enlarged 

Chorea 

Defective vision 

Defective teeth 

Hypertrophied tonsils 

Adenoids 



NEW YORK, 1906. 


MINNEAPOLIS, 1908. 


per cent. 


per cent. 


37-3 


530 


11. 




1-7 


0.2 


22.8 


239 


55° 


43-S 


233 


311 


12.0 


12.8 



Obviously these figures relating to the symptoms of malnutrition show 
that the New York figures of 1906 are too low. 

The relation between defects of vision and malnutrition is suggested 
by the examinations in Cleveland in 1907 when the defects of eye-sight 
in well-to-do districts were stated to be 32.4 per cent, while among the 
children in congested districts, they were 71.7 per cent. Appreciating 
the importance of a correlation between malnutrition and defects of 
vision, which are not all essentially optical in character, it is well to 
consider the extent of defective vision in some of our cities and states. 



19I2J 



School Lunches and Medical Inspection 



351 



Observations on defective vision in children. 



NtJMBER EXAinNED. 


DEFECTIVE VISION. 




Per cent. 


4,6 lO 


7-7 


10,028 


27.7 


402,937 


22.3 


1,960 


14.9 


79,065 


313 


4,663 


II. I 


11,953 


19. 1 



Bayonne 

Camden 

State of Massachusetts 

Milwaukee 

New York City 

Pawtucket 

Worcester 



The nature of the defects of vision is not stated in definite terms. 

The statistics of medical inspection make another error that is 
extremely misleading, inasmuch as they are calculated all too fre- 
quently in terms of the number of examinations made instead of the 
number of children examined. It is, therefore, impossible to come to 
a correct understanding as to the exact number of defects in any one 
child, or to an appreciation of the relative number of children in the 
school population suffering from any single pathological condition. 
The total absence of the term "malnutrition" in many statistical 
tables shows that this phase of the problem is entirely omitted in a 
consideration of medical inspection. For example, the state of Massa- 
chusetts in 1906 and 1907 reported the examination of 343,000 children 
having 27,342 defects, but malnutrition is not numbered among the 
conditions reported. 

Dr. Maxwell in his tenth annual report claims that 60 per cent of 
defective children suffer from malnutrition. This is thoroughly in 
accord with Dr. Collie of London who in referring to mental defects 
stated: "Their brains are starved and naturally fail to react to the 
ordinary methods of elementary teaching." 

Now it naturally occurs to most people to ask, would school lunches 
be of any service in relieving the conditions that have been described? 
Can school lunches overcome the short-comings of home feeding? If 
a school lunch is given, will it off-set the disadvantages of the other 
meals at home? These natural questions are answered, suggestively at 
least, by several experiments. The experience of Bradford, England, 
has been supplemented by the experience of many open air schools in 
this country, but leaving aside for the moment the question as to the 
value of fresh air, the New York School Lunch Committee studied 
two groups of children, both adjudged to be suffering from malnutri- 



352 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

tion, one receiving a school lunch and the other having no change in 
its daily regime. The group receiving the school lunch averaged a 
gain of io| ounces in three months as compared with a gain of 3! 
ounces for the children not taking the lunches in the same period of 
time. In Philadelphia in 191 1, this experiment was repeated, and 
a group of 40 conspicuously ill-nourished children gained 1.78 pounds 
in 3 months with lunches as compared with 0.8 pound for 40 similar 
children without the lunches. The children in fresh air classes, as it 
has been wtII known, gain in weight and hemoglobin and make marked 
advances in their studies. The children in one fresh air class in New 
York City during 191 1 who were 11.6 per cent below normal weight 
at the beginning of the school year, ended the season only 7.4 per cent 
below normal weight, with an average individual gain of 4.64 pounds. 
Furthermore, and this is the striking part of the value of school lunches, 
during the holidays, Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Easter, the chil- 
dren on their home diet lost, on the average, 1.72 pounds per child. 
The fact that the school lunches marked practically the only difference 
in their life between the vacation period and the school period, dis- 
regarding for the time the added stress of school work, gives valuable 
testimony as to the efficacy of school lunches in relieving malnutrition 
to a marked extent. 

It is needless to go further into details. The relation between school 
lunches and medical inspection is patent. Medical inspection should 
be so thorough as to indicate not merely the names of various symp- 
toms and conditions, but should suggest whether or not malnutrition 
could possibly be an underlying factor. Under such conditions school 
lunches could serve in a curative w^ay to assist in the relief of the con- 
ditions reported by medical inspectors. Frequently medical inspec- 
tions would also suggest those children not possessing marked defects, 
but who are very close to the health poverty line, and for them school 
lunches could be instituted as part of the preventive measures now so 
thoroughly esteemed. Most civOized countries have already installed 
school lunches as a natural and normal part of an education movement 
without laying unnecessary stress upon its value as a health measure. 
As medical inspections are regarded to be of advantage to the school 
system through the lessening of disease and the improvement of the 
mental calibre of the children, so school lunches may be regarded as 
a valuable means of decreasing the number of absences and inatten- 
tion, at the same time increasing mental activity and building up the 
physical health of our school children. 



THE $500, $1000, AND $2000 INCOME.^ 
Mary S. Snow. 

Supervisor of Domestic Science, Public Schools, Chicago. 

In a meeting of a so seriously-intentioned society as the American 
Home Economics Association, no subject, with the sole exception of 
pure foods, has a right to a larger space on the program than the one 
which we shall discuss. With several government volumes already 
recording the findings of various committees of investigation into the 
increased cost of living, and with Ex-President Roosevelt and others 
promising additional inquiries, their promises leaving the implication 
that having discovered the cause they will immediately remedy it, it is 
meet that women in every part of the land shall seriously study how 
they will spend the wage so hardly come by on the part of the wage- 
earner — that the wisdom and skill in the spending shall match the 
earnestness and zeal in the earning. 

It is time that women definitely discuss the actual value of a loaf 
of bread in terms of flour, labor, and fuel, and compare the result with 
the price paid by the consumer when ordering by telephone, delivering 
by wagon, special and hurried, wrapping, bookkeeper's time for the 
account, and other expense accessories are added. Whether or not 
we shall have cooperative bakeries, laundries, groceries, and markets 
should enter into discussion of this subject; whether or not larger 
appropriation of money and longer time should be given in the public 
schools to training in housewifery, also belongs in the argument; 
but most of all should come the evangelist who shall have the power 
to awaken all women to the appreciation of the fact that the labor and 
strain of the husband in earning any one of the stated incomes, should 
be met by similar earnestness and expression of power on the part of 
the women in the spending. 

Women are the spenders of most of the money that is earned. The 
laborer who gives the pay envelope to the wife on Saturday night knows 
this well; so does his wife to whom, in the spending of the same, with 
all our theories of percentages, food values, and textiles, we have little 

1 Presented at the Chicago Meeting of the National Education Association, July 
II, 1912. 

353 



354 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

to impart, so deeply has life driven the lesson. She knows very well 
what can be realized from chuck, brisket, and plate cuts of meat. 
The teacher of household science must gather her classes from a higher 
social stratum before she will find real ignorance on these subjects. 
It is true that she can teach the children of the proletariat little charms 
of preparation and serving which they pri2e and have joy in taking 
part in, but the keen wisdom in marketing which poverty has forced 
upon them has many a lesson for the expert teacher. 

Students of theoretical budgets have worked out many elaborate 
schemes of ideal divisions of income, which, after all, are a generaliza- 
tion from the experiences of the race, and not in any respect original 
discoveries of methods by which clothing may be increased by dimin- 
ishing rent or cost of food. All income distribution must in the last 
analysis base itself on the unit and not the family, but the exact appor- 
tionment need, however, concern only such as elect to consider these 
incomes in a severely academic manner. Since the intention of this 
paper is rather social and observational, consideration of such points 
is left to others. 

Information for the present discussion has been gathered from many 
sources, including governmental researches, Mrs. More's admirable 
work on workingmen's budgets, settlement researches in eastern cities, 
the very valuable reports on Chicago housing conditions by Miss 
Breckinridge and Miss Abbott, some very nai/e and interesting data 
furnished by New York public school children through the efforts of 
an exceptionally valuable principal, and particularly work done by the 
household arts pupils in Chicago high schools. The information and 
conclusions of the trained social workers are reliable and workable, 
they ha\-ing sifted, preserved, and recorded the matter necessary for 
generalization. The data and conclusions of the elementary school 
children and the secondary school pupils are valuable for the illuminat- 
ing glimpses of the home feeling and attitude toward the life struggle 
as, for example, the finding that under the heading of amusements, 
at least one-fourth of the girls state that the girl of i6 years and the 
boy of 12 years must earn the money for themselves and a girl of 9 
years. This computation is made with delightful cheerfulness and 
no expectation of failing of suflacient diversion. Extensive explana- 
tions are made as to why larger allowance is made for the clothing for 
the girl than for the mother, the implication being that this fact is 
derogatory to the girl's character unless she makes it quite clear that 
the condition is temporary. 



1 



1912] The $500, $1000, and $2000 Income 355 

One of the most striking observations was that the girls who came 
from homes of small incomes had vastly the better judgment in the 
value and distribution of money. There were but three pupils of the 
number who estimated constant hired service in the $2000 income, and 
but 25 out of 870 girls who estimated occasional hired service (like 
washing). Not any girl included any hired service in the $1000 or 
$500 income. Only 11 omitted savings as an inevitable apportion- 
ment in the $1000 and $2000 incomes, and more than half of the num- 
ber included insurance in all three types. 

The $500 income instantly became the center of interest to the inves- 
tigators, since the members of families of this group rarely reach high 
school, and never unless they are in some way self-supporting. They 
needed to be constantly reminded that thousands of families are living 
on that and less. It then became a problem carrying its own satisfac- 
tion in academic solution. It seemed to them, as it does to most 
people, that in the United States with its comparative freedom from 
caste and inherited privilege, and its half a fruitful continent to feed 
a nation, it should be impossible that "ten millions of people are 
sunk in poverty, four millions of them in receipt of relief" — but at any 
rate we are so informed by no less an authority than Robert Hunter. 
Half a million laborers in Illinois alone earn an average of only S575 
each in a year, and this provided they are employed every working 
day. The vast number earning below $500 who create this average is 
appalling to the social worker and should be startling to those enjoy- 
ing the grace of comfortable incomes. 

In the consideration of all the incomes, the ordinary distribution has 
been used of food, rent, fuel, lighting, clothes, and sundries. 

In a carefully compiled government study of 65 average families, 
consisting of husband and wife and five children, the following figures 
resulted for the year. 

Food $iQ3 . 76 

Rent 86 . 3 1 

Fuel 23.90 

Lighting 3 . 69 

Clothing 54. 18 

Sundries 92.16 



$454 . 00 

The item of sundries includes insurance, which most of the families 
maintain; church, to which many of them contributed; the doctor. 



356 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

school books, carfares, and other small expenses. Estimating this 
family as regards food as 4.85 men, the food cost less than 80 cents a 
week apiece, or less than 1 2 cents apiece per day. It means all the 
train of incapacities which belong to under-nourishment, anemia, rick- 
ets, susceptibility to disease, inability to do mental work, and frightful 
strain on moral stamina. Why marvel at shiftlessness, improvidence, 
bad housekeeping, and yielding to temptation? Marvel, rather, at 
the persistence of the life spark. The item of fuel $23.90 is increased 
in interest when it is remembered that the cost of fuel to the poor is 
increased often more than 50 per cent by reason of their being obliged 
to buy coal by the bucket and wood by the bundle. It is useless for 
the economist to counsel the poor on this subject. The woman has not 
and never can have the money to buy coal by the ton, flour by the 
barrel, or canned goods by the dozen. One child states innocently 
that fuel may be had for nothing by the children who hunt it on the 
railroad tracks. Our tradition that economic precocity should not be 
forced upon children sounds flat and tasteless as a subject of discourse 
with a child speaking thus. 

The rent item of $86.31, or a trifle more than $7.00 a month, will 
mean little to people who have not seen the places which can be had 
for such prices. The reports of Miss Breckinridge and Miss Abbott on 
Chicago housing conditions are vivid and accurate, setting forth with 
minute particulars the places out of which thousands of children come 
daily to the great public schools, confidently expecting the secret to be 
revealed to them whereby their condition will somehow be magically 
changed. 

The item for clothes for this average family of seven is $54.18 for the 
year for all. The wife of one of our presidents once chose to tell the 
women of the country how to dress on $100 per year, and great and 
loud w^as the outcry. If any of the women of the 10,000,000 whom 
Hunter describes, and whom all school teachers know, interested them- 
selves in the controversy, they must have considered it about as enter- 
taining as a recipe for enduring the tedium of a ride in the park in a 
touring car. Their clothing is haphazard, second-hand, and insuffi- 
cient. They suffer excruciating misery in winter. The children 
leave the school room reluctantly, clinging to its warmth and comfort 
as long as possible. The wretchedness and squalor of the clothes of 
these poor kill the self-respect of the wearers as fast as they reach con- 
sciousness of differences. 

The heart of childhood has fires of joy which nothing can quite 
quench, and no spectacle is more appealing than the grace and aban- 



1912] The $500, $1000, and $2000 Income 357 

don of these children flinging themselves into the spirit of the folk- 
dance unconscious of any drawbacks in heavy and broken shoes or 
ill-fitting and ragged clothes. If one wanders long and far enough in 
the public schools, one finds a great number of teachers who make, up 
to the children in many ways for the burdens which society lays on 
their shoulders. 

Like Tolstoi and one other, we ask, "What then shall we do?" 
The public school patiently takes one burden after another upon itself 
as society wearies or fails under the load, but can society devise any 
scheme by which the public school may force society to believe that 
the laborer who works hard every working day and is sober and self- 
denying, should somehow receive more than S500 a year as a wage for 
the tireless labor of production, sending in abundance to the markets 
of the world what immediately returns as a stream of gold? Five 
hundred dollars cannot clothe, shelter, and feed a normal family, with 
high resulting efiiciency. Thousands of families are subsisting on it, 
but society will ultimately pay. 

It is comparatively easy to work out the budget of the family with 
only $500 to provide for 365 days. One need not worry over percent- 
ages and logical divisions. If the children are naked, spend some 
money for clothes and go without food; if they are hungry, buy food 
and go naked; if the rent is due and the landlord impatient pay it and 
go without both. Books are no problem, since as one child very sim- 
ply states, " Of course the children of this family will have fund books," 
meaning the books furnished free to indigent children in schools. 

The Industrial Education report of 1900 has an illuminating bulletin 
on what the trained and untrained man can earn. The man we have 
been considering is untrained and at 35 years his maximum of $640 is 
reached, when he declines steadily to S200 at 65 years. The trained 
man on the other hand at the age of 35 years has reached $1270, 
climbs on to $1365 at 45, and declines to $1000 at 65 years. 

In turning to the budget of $1000, the sum is so princely in the light 
of the $500 family that one is tempted to become scientific. Indeed, 
to use the city of Chicago as an illustration of a large city, it is found by 
generalization from the latest census report that $1202.55 per year is 
the average wage of the salaried person, the term salary applying to 
the person paid weekly, monthly, or yearly in distinction from the one 
paid by the day. There are in this city 54,821 such, who on this 
average salary support from one to seven and often more people. 
Add the fact that the purchasing power of these dollars is steadily 
decreasing, so that the money which would have purchased 100 loaves 



358 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

of bread 10 years ago will buy but 95 today "with no relief in sight," 
one is forced to the experiment of attempting to make mathematics 
take the place of bread and butter, and long study of the method of 
spending the money make up for the meagreness of the amount to be 
distributed. 

Dr. Engel teaches that whatever the income, we shall find the items 
of rent and clothing maintaining a constant average for each 25 per 
cent of the income. Mrs. Richards differs so slightly from the Engel 
generalization that the variation may be ignored. It is a very interest- 
ing phenomenon that it is the experience of the race upon which we 
depend for scientific data. None of the sociologists pretends to teach 
that the world is doing the thing wrongly. They simply arrange the 
data in an orderly way and call it a science, which after all, is the defi- 
nition of science. In shelter, people, like water, tend to seek their 
level, and if they ambitiously or unwisely strive to reach above it and 
violate the law of ratio, again, like water, they are unstable and tend 
to calamity. 

Thus, if the $1000 salary is dra^Ti upon for more than $250 in rent, 
food or clothing or other well-being is endangered. So definitely is 
this fact fixed in the minds of most people that we decide promptly 
and with great definiteness concerning our neighbors, that they are 
or are not living in a house they cannot " afford." Hygienic conditions 
above all, availability to school, and other cultural influences, character 
for decency of the neighborhood, kind of highways, transportation, 
lighting — all must enter into the selection of this house which shall 
cost the tenant but a trifle over $20 a month. The pushing on of 
tenants caused by business occupation of the neighborhood with con- 
sequent increase of value of ground space, as well as improvements 
adding to value of the environment, forces this $1000 family farther 
into the suburbs where soon the inherent and compelling desire to owq 
one's home brings a deepening of thoughtfulness about expenditure 
which presently analyzes the budget quite as skillfully as Engel with 
all his mass of material. Nothing can more swiftly and surely steady 
and improve good citizenship than owning a home. It quickens the 
imagination as to what it means to the other fellow if a neighborhood 
is degraded by liquor selling, the social e\dl, or whether or not it is a 
hardship to have poor streets, poor lighting, poor sanitation. The 
welfare of the group is a matter of indifference to the casual dweller, 
but the family whose "place" has been paid for by pinching and saving 
is there to stay and environment is important. 



19 1 2] The $500, $1000, and $2000 Income 359 

This family of five must be clothed with another $2 50. Scientilic 
analysis of the family makes it equivalent to 4 men, who may spend 
$62.50 apiece on clothing. This must mean boots, hats, and under- 
wear in sufficiency; outer clothing of decency and respectability. The 
mother must appear at the woman's or parent and teacher's club with 
her appearance in keeping with her hopes and ambitions for the chil- 
dren. It is easy for the public schools to prepare women to carry on 
nearly all the clothing construction for the family in the home, thus 
increasing both quantity, and better than that, quality. But it is 
difficult to preserve this valuable attitude of self-sufficiency in the pres- 
ence of the pageant of complexity, gorgeousness, and display which the 
pupils see in the windows of the department stores. If for two years 
influential shops should elect to present in their windows simplicity 
and refinement alone, the effect on the girls who are destined to marry 
the man with a salary of Siooo or less, or more, would be so far-reaching 
that all of society would feel the effect in a clearer basing of real values 
in living. Those who ride with wage and salary earners morning and 
evening, study their faces, hear their casual conversation, and see 
them rush to their work, feel somewhat of the strain of human effort 
that provides money for the tawdry, the elaborate, the bizarre, and the 
useless that seem to attract so easily when displayed in the shop 
windows. 

The problem of warmth and comfort must be faced, and the woman 
who faces the task of buying the woolen clothes for the household has 
an opportunity to sit in judgment upon the ''fine Italian hand" of the 
tariff maker. It will be an interesting moment when some consider- 
able numbers of women come together, as they did recently at San 
Francisco, and spend an equally considerable length of time studyuig 
Schedule K. It will be valuable to hear their conclusions as to why 
one may not for a reasonable sum of money shelter the children from 
the biting north wind. The writer saw a woman shopping for "all 
wool" dress goods and after tediously ravelling and pulling she said, 
"Well, I will take the samples home; I will be back tomorrow." The 
clerk turned to the ne.xt customer with a weary smile. The customer 
asked, "Do you have many like that?" and he answered, "No," and 
both, much relieved, turned to the customer's affairs — and yet this 
was precisely what all women should do. The buyer of the depart- 
ment store did just that, only more thoroughly. The woman is spend- 
ing the money capital of the business in which she is engaged for life, 
and if she scorns to be a good buyer or if she is too ignorant to be a good 



360 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

buyer either the family is cold and hungry or the bread winner must 
make another spurt to make up for her mistakes. 

Food has a ratio which is in inverse proportion to the size of the sal- 
ary. In a $500 income it was 60 per cent, in a $1000 income it is 30 
per cent. Here more than anywhere else in the home management 
the mother needs knowledge, good judgment, and diligence in business. 
Regarding this family still as the scientific unit of 4 men, there is the 
sum of $300 to be spent for food. This represents $75 apiece for the 
scientific unit, or $1.44 a week for each. Discussing this subject not 
long since with one of the most expert dietitians in the country she 
declared that it could not be done except with as large a group as 
twenty, considering the standard of living which should be maintained. 
But the reply is unanswerable that it is done. We can count the 
calories and remain in consternation at the results, but meanwhile the 
children grow and prosper in and out of school. Their eyes are bright, 
their heads are clear, their spirits are high, they leap and run. Their 
well-being is maintained, but a scrutiny of the hands of the mother is 
very revealing as to where the burden falls of keeping the children well, 
strong, and happy. The children pick up many pennies at trifling 
tasks which pay for their pleasures and often help pay the grocer. 
They get an economic precocity which is often revealed by outbursts 
of almost supernatural wisdom on the part of children in the cookery 
classes as to where extraordinary grocery bargains may be had in the 
neighborhood — children of eleven and twelve ask the privilege of 
buying in class quantities at preserving time, describing all the while 
with tumultuous eagerness the variation in prices in the range of half 
a dozen blocks in all directions. Mother has not yet taught them the 
saving that can be managed by the use of the telephone. 

These people, like the other group, cannot buy in large quantities; 
they must pay the everlasting and crushing tax of the person whose 
crime is having meager money in his purse. Instead of buying six 
bars of soap for a quarter they must purchase five bars at five cents 
each. They must buy potatoes by the small measure, and canned 
vegetables by the can, with all the extravagance in prices which this 
implies. The remaining $200 must be divided among fuel, light, church, 
insurance, carfare, amusements, school books, the doctor, incidentals, 
and savings. Out of hundreds of budget problems worked out by 
high school girls in Chicago, only eleven omitted savings. If one is 
over-inclined towards pessimism throw a problem which is real into 
the hands of a group of high school girls. One hears vast lamentation 
of their frivolity, of their extravagance, of their lack of purpose — 



1912] The $^00, $1000, and $2000 Income 361 

space is lacking for discussion of this — but this statement is reiterated : 
With hundreds of high school girls working on a budget of $1000 per 
year for a family of five, only eleven omitted savings. Their attitude 
towards insurance has already been indicated. Their conclusions in 
regard to clothing invariably carried the definite implication that they 
were to make the clothes themselves, including hats. It is true that 
the household arts group in the high school is not preponderant, ex- 
cept, of course, in the Girls' Technical High School. In this school 
the details of the budgets were worked out sufficiently in detail to be 
a working program for the inexperienced. All schools brought power 
enough to the question so that from thirteen high schools working 
independently and freely the final generalizations were those of Engel 
and Mrs. Richards. The variation was the constantly recurring expec- 
tation that the older children were to contribute something to their 
own support — and all precluded any type of private instruction. 

The $2000 income should maintain a 20 per cent average for rent 
and clothing (and this average is a veritable average of the three in- 
comes) and practically the same average for food, which gives the unit 
$2 a week for food in this family. This again means close and careful 
bu}ang — $1200 is thus used for food, clothing and shelter. The oper- 
ating expenses, such as fuel, lighting, service, if any, and what Mrs. 
Richards calls "higher life" — meaning books, travel, insurance, and 
so forth — are included in the remaining $800. The attitude of the 
high school girls is that there should be very little hired service in the 
families with this income. They very perceptibly increased the appro- 
priation for church and charity — also laying great stress on dentistry, 
as if this were a luxury — as it is to so many. To anyone with serious 
intention to be valuable to the world in ways great or small a perusal 
of Miss Addams' Spirit of Youth in the City Streets will explain the 
steady increase in the percentage allowed by the girls in the graded 
budgets for amusement — all were very definite — many describing where 
good things were to be found for a small sum. 

Much stress has been laid on what the girls did since it brought out 
so much of realization of money values. The discussion of the $500 
income in many cases spread through the whole school and into the 
neighborhoods and deepened the responsibility of the students towards 
the necessity of understanding. 

As in the beginning so in the closing of this paper, the contention 
is made that most of the money that is earned is spent by woman and 
the returns from it will be in direct proportion to her wisdom, her intelli- 
gence, and her vision. 



PRACTICE FIELDS IN HOUSEHOLD AND INSTITU- 
TIONAL MANAGEMENT.^ 

Emma H. Gunther. 

Teachers College. 

By practice fields reference is made to any opportunity outside the 
laboratory for practical work in either household or institutional man- 
agement. The idea is not a new one, for fifty years ago Catherine E. 
Beecher in her Educational Reminiscences and Suggestions made this 
suggestion: 

The domestic department would be provided with model dwelling houses, illus- 
trating proper and tasteful modes of construction, furniture, ornamentation, warm- 
ing, and ventilation. The family in each dwelling would consist of the principal- 
associate principal, and ten pupils, and they would do all the family work, except, 
of the heavier sort. A circulating system would employ every member of the family 
one or two hours, in such rotation that in a given time each one will have been 
instructed in and will perform every operation included in family life. When each 
pupil is thus trained, she will give place to another of the scholars and each would re- 
main a longer or shorter time according to proficiency acquired at school or at home. 

This is early proof of the importance attached to the establishing 
of some field for practical training that approaches in a measure, at 
least, living conditions; that is, a plan in conjunction with, or a step 
beyond, present-day laboratory methods, whereby conditions may be 
met as they really exist. 

Laboratories are being perfected to the minutest detail regarding 
equipment; laboratory methods are embracing every possible practical 
phase for the administrator, not only of the home but of the various 
forms of institutions. Nevertheless it is the universal decision — espe- 
cially regarding those applying for institutional posts — that not less of 
theory is needed, but infinitely more experience in judicious, sensible, 
practical application. How is this to be met? 

Knowing that many in Home Economics departments were realiz- 
ing the inadequacy of past methods, and were attempting to supple- 

1 Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 19 12. 

362 



1912] Practice Fields in Management 363 

ment these in various ways, a questionnaire was sent out aiming to 
collect statements of various plans used in furnishing practice fields 
for home and institutional management. It was hoped that these 
might form the basis for suggestions and study. The two main points 
in the questionnaire were (i) whether a course or courses were offered 
in household management or institutional management; (2) whether 
opportunity was offered in these courses or elsewhere — outside the 
laborator>' — for practice field work. 

Of 100 letters sent out to universities and colleges, 75 replies were 
received, of which 39, or about half, answered negatively — that is, 
in connection with their course in household management or house- 
hold administration no opportunity for practical work was given out- 
side of the laboratory. No institutional management courses among 
these were mentioned. Of the remaining half, 29 gave reports emr 
bracing these following features outlined in the other points of the 
questionnaire: (i) Where practice work is given — the college dormi- 
tory, lunch room, demonstration apartment, model cottage, etc.; 
(2) what it includes — marketing, cooking, menu making, serving room 
work, dining room service, care of rooms, cleaning, buying household 
supplies, supervision of tasks and workers, laundering, or business 
administration; (3) when given — concurrently with theoretical work, 
at the end of the theoretical work, optional, or compulsory; (4) by 
whom supervised — the instructor, supervisor of practice work, or 
special director of the dormitory; (5) the form — reports, detailed 
studies, independent investigations, individual conferences, and 
discussions in groups or classes; (6) handling of money involved, 
account keeping; (7) apprentice work — substitutes for one-half day, 
one month, or more, and (8) whether students are experienced, and 
whether apprenticeship experience is necessary. 

Given briefly, the reports regarding practice fields were as follows: 

(i) Model or PracticeCottage. — Six colleges have this plan, the cottage 
being occupied by instructors, and students doing certain duties at 
stated times; or occupied by a few students who live there for a period 
of time with an instructor, and carry on all the activities of the home. 
The work of housekeeping is under the supervision of the instructor. 

(2) Demonstration A partment. — Ten colleges report the use of such an 
apartment where to a certain extent home conditions are duplicated. 
The greatest value obtains from those in which students may live with 
one or more teachers, otherwise the results are lacking in many respects. 
Here, as in the model cottage, students learn to take responsibility 



364 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

in the various phases of housekeeping. The University of Nebraska 
reports as follows: 

The dormitory for the girls in the School of Agriculture closes in April. After 
they are gone five rooms in the dormitory are fitted up for housekeeping purposes, 
and groups of three or four girls who are taking the course in household adminis- 
tration come and live in these rooms for a shorter or longer period. The}' do their 
own work, make their own menus, and do their own buying and keeping of accounts. 
They write out a report of the work, including expenditures of time and money. 
These are discussed in class and individually. 

At the State Normal School of Manual Arts and Home Economics, 
Santa Barbara, Cal., students are advised to do housekeeping in fur- 
nished houses and apartments for their practical training. 

(3) College Dormitory.- — Six colleges carry on practical work in dor- 
mitories. In one college giving a course in household management, 
students clean rooms for inspection, while in another they apply in 
the dormitory knowledge of floor finishes, furniture polishes, utensil 
cleansers, and the like. To quote from the University of Minnesota: 
" We have a group of college girls who live in the dormitories of the 
School of Agriculture, and who take the responsibility of the inspection 
of rooms and who act as advisers and assistants in the management 
of the home life of the school pupils." 

Seven reported courses in institutional management with practice 
field work, namely, the University of Chicago, Simmons College, Michi- 
gan State Agricultural College, Mechanics Institute of Rochester, 
N. Y., Pratt Institute, Teachers College of Columbia University, and 
the University of Wisconsin. Of these, three use college dormitories 
for practice fields besides additional work in lunch rooms. One plan 
is this: Students take charge in the serving room, study the dining 
room service, do large quantity cooking, order, receive, inspect sup- 
plies, and make menus. In the housekeeping they take stock of the 
linen, mark and mend it, and take the linen inventory; inspect clean- 
ing and make time studies; order household supplies and, at stated 
periods, carry on the business administration. Another writes: "For 
institutional management, visits are made to various institutions and 
to tea rooms, and discussions follow of methods and means." 

(4) Lunch Rooms. — Eight colleges make use of these for their field 
work. In the University of Chicago students serve from 500 to 600 
people each day at their club. To quote from another: "Two of our 
students run a cafeteria five days in the week, serving from 50 to 100 
people, and other students have practice under them as helpers, cooks. 



19 1 2] Practice Fields in Management 365 

cashier, and serving at the counter." Others report similar work. 
Students in one college serve lo-cent lunches to 20 faculty members, 
and also serve meals in the homes of the faculty. Another plan is that 
of students taking entire charge of banquets of from 70 to 500 plates. 
Numbers of cases might be cited where students have practice in fur- 
nishing food for special functions. One writes: "Recently our engi- 
neers built a road on the campus and my juniors furnished dinner for 
150 working men." From another (Bradley Polytechnic Institute): 

We give all our senior students practice in cooking in the school lunch room 
kitchen where they also observe the methods of carrying on the work there and 
concerning which a number of lectures are given by the manager of the lunch room. 
This is done for the benefit of those who go out as teachers where the oversight of a 
lunch room may be required. In the majority of cases reported, the practical work 
is given concurrently with the theoretical, but a few give it at the end of the classes 
in theory. Almost all make the practice compulsory. 

To summarize: Regarding supervision, it is in most colleges in 
charge of the instructor of the course, who may at the same time be 
director of the dormitory. In two instances, a supervisor of practice 
work is in charge. 

Reports, individual conferences, and discussions in groups were the 
plans followed by the majority. About one-third used also the method 
of independent investigations. As regards handling of money in 
actual buying, there are but a few that noted experience in this line. 
To quote: "Food purchases for a family of six, and purchase of fuel 
for the kitchen and dining room. Accounts of same." "Cash allow- 
ance for a series of meals. Itemized bills for a series of meals and 
totals." Another writes: " Girls take responsibility of actual buying. 
Lunch accounts are kept." Also, "S4 per week is given each student 
during the time of the course. With this she must meet all expenses 
of food for four people for five meals; namely, a five-course formal 
dinner, a three-course informal dinner, and three luncheons. The ice, 
laundry, and fuel bills are not included in the amount given the student 
but are carefully figured by her and paid by the department." To 
these questions concerning money and accounts, the greater number 
answered in the negative. 

The answers to the inquiry as to methods of testing students' 
ability to meet responsibility by having them act as substitutes for a 
period of time were as follows: Four used the plan of students spending 
one-half day as substitutes in charge of a department; in one college 
they spend a day; in two they devote one week; in another they give 



366 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

one month; in one they demand that the students spend three months. 
Several replied: "Have not come to any decision on this point as yet." 
All replies save tv/o were "No" to the question, "Are the majority of 
students in institutional management those having had previous 
experience and responsibility ?" Almost every answer was in the affirm- 
ative as to whether some experience of the apprenticeship type is 
necessary in preparing women for administrative work. 

To see the trend of thought regarding proposed plans for the coming 
year several might be quoted: "We do not as yet offer a course lead- 
ing to admmistrative positions, but are thinking of introducing such 
a course when our new dormitory is completed." "Plans for new 
building to be used in 1913 contain institutional kitchen, large dining 
room, and an apartment. It is expected that practice work will be 
given in household management and institutional cookery." (Uni- 
versity of Illinois). "Our department has been so hampered for lack 
of space and opportunity for institutional work that we can not make 
a good report. We are to have our new building next year, when I 
hope we shall be able to report something." (Cornell University.) 
Another (Middlebury College) : " We are just organizing for next year 
a demonstration apartment in our college dormitory." "A future 
hope is to have a house equipped for the practical ' try out' of class 
room teaching." 

From the educational department of the Y.W.C.A. in St. Louis, 
Mo., comes this: "We have just moved into our new half-million 
dollar property which has a very complete and up-to-date equipment 
for domestic science, including a cafeteria which would give us a splen- 
did chance to introduce training in institutional management. We 
have already been discussing plans for such a course of study." 

Added to this we find statements from those now carrying on some 
practice field work to this effect: "Quarters inadequate at present. 
New building next year will make it possible to do more extensive 
work." "More time next year to practice work." "We do com- 
paratively little with household management on account of present 
cramped quarters — we have rooms and equipment for a full and 
thorough course planned in the prospective new building." "Our 
work in house practice was introduced this past year, so it is only 
in the experimental stage. We hope to enlarge it next year." 

It is interesting to glance at a few of the housekeeping schools in 
Europe, noting especially what they offer in the way of a practice 
field. Barring classes in institutional cookery given in the National 



1912] Practice Fields in Management 367 

Cooking School, Buckingham Palace Road, London, there seems to be 
little offered in England for institutional training. In National Socie- 
ties Training College, West Hampstead, N. W., London, the students 
use rooms in the dormitory for practical work. The house used in 
connection with the Clapham High School, Domestic Science Depart- 
ment, accommodates six students with the lady directress. The girls 
take turns in managing the home, supervising the household, buying, 
keeping accounts, playing hostess, etc. At the Battersea Polytechnic, 
Park Road, the girls cater for about loo people — besides doing much 
practical work in housekeeping. In Colonial Training College, Stoke 
Prior, Bromsgrove, where students receive practical training for work 
in the colonies, "the pupils do all the work of the home, taking it in 
turns, from scrubbing floors and cleaning grates to preparing meals." 

In the Edinburgh School of Domestic Economy, there is a model 
house of three rooms where the practical work in housekeeping is 
carried on. The students take turns in being responsible for the house- 
hold routine, house linen, marketing, and house bookkeeping, besides 
having duties in the kitchen, scullery, store room, and larder. A simi- 
lar plan is that of the Household Arts School at Berne, Switzerland, 
where groups of girls carry on the work of the house, besides offering 
rooms and board to three others who pay for this privilege. Not 
unlike this are those Household Arts Schools at Ralligen and at Worb, 
Switzerland, where housekeeping opportunities are offered. 

Germany provides many such housekeeping practice fields, as does 
Denmark, the one at Aarhus having the plan of 6 girls out of the 24 
taking turns at keeping house. One is housekeeper, doing the market- 
ing; one does chamber work, another laundry work, another baking, 
while all assist in the cooking. 

What are our conclusions with this glimpse of the plan followed in a 
few housekeeping schools of Europe, and from the tabulations of the 
questionnaire from which we know to a certain extent what is incor- 
porated in the idea of practice fields, at least for household administra- 
tions? Are we ready to champion the cause of practice fields? Does 
this method seem to be the ultimate step beyond our now well-estab- 
lished laboratory method? For the method employed, whether cot- 
tage, dormitory, or lunch room, it would seem essential that the field 
that is used should most nearly approach living conditions to be met 
by the students later — not merely the routine of living, but the " unex- 
pecteds" that are always arising and which demand a judicious and 
wise executive. Whatever the plan — be it under conditions ideal or 



368 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

using the place that is available now — actual power is gained by the 
doing. Observation has its place and a valuable one — but every oppor- 
tunity given a student to fit into the actual day's work — especially 
for institutional workers — is a valuable asset to her. Hence students 
are eager to do summer work in inns, tea rooms, small hotels, etc., 
taking positions of responsibility wherever possible. The time that 
this work is given — whether with the theoretical or at the end — seems 
to be a matter that is governed by the conditions. 

Numbers are small in most cases as yet, so that individual confer- 
ences are possible. They are especially necessary where students are 
experienced and are working at special problems. Can the methods 
employed with practice teachers in normal schools or with nurses in 
training schools be used in this kind of practice work — that is, by indi- 
vidual conferences first, followed by observation periods — then while 
the student is doing the work, by supervision to a certain extent? 
Later, the student presents a written report in outline form, or drawings, 
enough to help organize the material and fix it, and a conference is 
held regarding this and other reports for comparisons. The broad 
features and general deductions may be brought up in class later. 

The plan of the apprenticeship system — as followed to a certain 
extent by pupil dietitians — is now under discussion for those to be 
college dormitory assistants, lunch room managers, housekeepers in 
hospitals, etc. Is it possible to enlarge along this line, to place out to a 
much greater extent for practice those not competent to take positions 
because lacking in experience? How can we best prepare our students 
for the work of an institution — where such emphatically important 
points are at issue — that they have sufl5cient practice to know the 
best times for marketing, and to become keen in the recognizing of 
schemes for frauds in all phases of food purchases; that they have suffi- 
cient practice to know what the saving in a large institution of a frac- 
tion of a cent per person means; to have sufficient chance to secure 
the skill that is attainable through practice in making suitable and 
balanced menus ; to have practice enough in trying out the working of 
labor-savers to be convinced of their usefulness or uselessness; and to 
have sufficient practice to know what supervision means of numbers of 
people in service, and to appreciate the signfficance of tact, sympathy, 
poise, and self-confidence? 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE. 
Mary D. S. Rose. 
September i, 19 12. 

I. Food and Nutrition. 

Principles of Jelly Making. N. E. Goldwaite. Cornell Reading Courses, 191 2, 
vol. I, no. IS, pp. 241-254. 

Phosphorus in Indian Foodstuffs. D. Hooper. Jour. Soc. Chem. Ind., vol. 31, 
p. 88; Chem. Abs., June 20, p. 1638. 

The Baking Qualities of Flour as Influenced by Certain Chemical Substances, 
Milling By-products, and Germination of the Wheat. J. T. Willard and C. O. 
Swanson. Trans. Kans. Acad. Set., vols. 23-24, pp. 201-207; Chem. Abs., June 10, 

p. 1475- 

Further Observation on the Soy Bean. J. Ruhrah. Arch. Pediatrics, vol. 28, 
p. 841. As food for infants and diabetics. 

Vinegar and Vinegar Laws. J. O. Jordan. Mo. Bull. Boston Board of Health, 
I, 191 2, no. 3. 

Feeding Experiments with Fat-free Food Mixtures. T. B. Osborne and L. B. 
Mendel. Jour. Biol. Chem., July, 1912, pp. 81-89. 

Feeding Experiments Illustrating the Importance of Accessory Factors in Normal 
Dietaries. F. G. Hopkins. Jour. Physiol., July, pp. 425-460. 

Protein Metabolism from the Standpoint of Blood and Tissue Analysis. Third 
Paper. Otto Folin and W. Denis. Jotir. Biol. Chem., July, 191 2, pp. 141-162. 
Urea Formation. 

Nature of the Repair Processes of Protein Metabolism. E. V. McCollum. 
Wisconsin Agr. Expt. Sta. Research Bull. 21, February, 1912. 

Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibility of White and Whole Meal 
Breads. Newman, Robinson, Halman, and Neville. Jour, of Hygiene, June, pp. 
119-143- 

Effects of Coffee Drinking upon Children. Charles Keen Taylor. Psychological 
Clinic, April 15, pp. 56-58. 

The Influence of Caffeine on the Circulatory and Muscular Systems. H. C. Wood, 
Therap. Gaz., January, pp. 6-12. 

The Influence of Caffeine on Mental and Motor Efficiency. H. L. Hollingworth. 
Therap. Gaz., January, pp. 1-5. 

The Effect of Caffeine on Nitrogenous Excretion and Partition. C. B. Farr and 
W. H. Welker. Am. Jour. Med. Sc, vol. 43, pp. 411-415. 

A Nutrition Investigation on the Insoluble Carbohydrates or Marc of the Apple. 
E. C. Schneider. Am. Jour. Physiol., June, pp. 258-270. 

The Influence on the Respiratory Exchange of Varying Amounts of Carbohy- 
drate in the Diet. Benedict and Higgins. Am. Jour. Physiol., June, pp. 217-232. 

369 



370 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The Influence upon Metabolism of Non-oxidizable Material in the Intestinal 
Tract. Benedict and Emmes. Avi. Jour. Physiol., June, pp. 197-216. 

Diet in Cardiovascular Diseases. E. E. Cornwall. N. Y. Med. Jour., June 22. 

Diarrhea of Gastric Origin, Diagnosis and Treatment. Douglas Vander Hoof. 
Am. Jour. Med. Sc, August, pp. 170-189. 

The Functions of the Large Intestine. W. B. Cannon. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 
July 6, 191 2, pp. 1-4. 

The Antiseptic and Bactericidal Properties of Egg White. L. F. Rettger and 
J. A. Sperry. Jour. Med. Research, vol. 26, pp. 55-64. 

The Balance of Acid-forming and Base-forming Elements in Foods and its Rela- 
tion to Ammonia Metabolism. H. C. Sherman and A. O. Gettler. Jour. Biol. Chetn., 
vol. xi, no. 4, 1912. 

The Relation of the Organic Phosphorus Content of Various Diets to Diseases of 
Nutrition, Particularly Beriberi, I. G. C. E. Simpson and E. S. Edie. Am. Trap. 
Med. and Parisit., vol. 5, pp. 313-345; Chem. Abs., June 10, p. 1458. 

A Dietar>- Study in a Children's Hospital. Mary S. Rose and Harriet C. Jacob- 
son. Teachers College Technical Education Bulletin, no. 13, Columbia University. 

Some Observations on Catharsis. E. P. Quain. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., July 6, 
191 2, pp. 27-30. Good bibliography and popular review of recent literature. 

Albumin Milk as Contrasted with Other Milk Mixtures in the Treatment of the 
Diarrheas of Children. Therapeutic Gazette, June 15, pp. 410-412. 

The Ethics of Gastronomy and Dietetics. Janet M. Hill. Boston Cooking School 
Mag., April, pp. 435-437. 

Changing the Winter Diet for a Summer One. Jessamine Chapman. Boston 
Cooking School Mag., June-July, pp. 50-51. 

Fundamental Principles in Infant Feeding. Chas. G. Kirby. Monthly Bull., 
N. Y. State Dept. of Health, pp. 128-130, May, 191 2. The whole number devoted 
to infant mortality. 

2. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

The Preservation of Food in the Home. Flora Rose. Cornell Reading Course for 
the Farm Home, June, 191 2, vol. i, no. 17. 

Cold Storage Problems. P. G. Heineman. Pop. Sc. Mo., August, pp. 153-162. 

The Conservation of Food Products by Refrigeration. P. H. Bryce. Am. Jour. 
Pub. Health, May, pp. 325-330. 

The Role of the House Fly and Certain Other Insects in the Spread of Human 
Diseases. W. E. Britton. Pop. Sc. Mo., July, pp. 19-35. 

Most Recent Investigations on the Determination, Preservative Action, and 
Adraissibihty of the Use of Benzoic Acid. K. B. Lehman. Science, April 12, pp. 

577-585- 

The Bacterial Contamination of Bread. Katharine Howell. Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 191 2, vol. ii,p. 321. A very timely contribution. 

The Sterilization of Milk Bottles with Calcium Hypochlorite. H. A. Whittaker 
and B. M. Mohler. Am. Jour. Pub. Health, vol. 2, pp. 282-287. 

The Handling, Transportation, and Storage of Perishable Foodstuffs, I and II. 
J. S. Hepburn. Jo2ir. Frank. Inst., vol. 172, pp. 173-193 (illus.). 

Cheap Confectionery. Chas. H. La Wall. Pa. Dept. of Agr., Dairy and Food 
Div., Bull. 216. 



1912] Bibliography of Home Economics 371 

Further Observations on the Chemistry of Disinfectants. Wilhelm Dreyfus. 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1912, pp. 163-167. 

The Prevalence of Dental Caries in Modern Civilized Communities. Arthur S. 
Underwood. Nineteenth Century, July, pp. 182-IQ7. 

Municipal Inspection of Food Supplies. J. O. Jordan. Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 
February, 191 2. 

Some Legal and Practical Aspects of "Bottled Milk" Regulation. J. O. Jordan, 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, February, 1912. 

Scientific Management in the Home. John B. Guernsey. Outlook, April 13, 
pp. 821-825. 

Standards for Home Alanagement in Relation to Food Problems. C. F. Lang- 
worthy. Home Progress, 2 (1912), No. i, pp. 8-18. 

Vegetables — Their Food Value and Preparation. Elizabeth Jefferson and Mary 
Edmonds. Agricultural College (Ohio) Extension Bulletin 7 (191 2), No. 10, pp. 16. 

On Cooked Foods. Katharine I. Williams. Knowledge, 35 (191 2), [n. ser. 
Yol. 9J, pp. 381-385. 

3. Education and Social Work. 

The Ragged Edge. Martha Bensley Bruere. Outlook, April 20, pp. 859-863. 

How Shall we Learn to Keep House? Martha Bensley Bruere, Outlook, July 6. 

Administration of School Luncheons. Alice C. Boughton, Psychological Clinic, 
April 15, pp. 44-51- 

The School Feeding Movement. Louise Stevens Bryant. Psychological Clinic, 
April 15, pp. 29-43. 

The Training of the School Dietitian. Mary Swartz Rose. Psychological Clinic, 
April IS, pp. 52-55. 

The Conference on Diet in Public Secondary and Private Schools. Charles E. 
Hecht, Secretary National Food Reform Association. The Child, July, pp. 867-68. 
A brief preliminary report. 

Infant Mortality and Milk Stations. Special Report, New York Milk Commit- 
tee, 191 2. 

Campaigning for Babies' Lives. Constance D. Leupp. McClure's Mag., August, 

pp. 361-373- 

Domestic Science in Rural Schools. Mary L. Bull. U. of Minnesota, Dept.of 
Agr., vol. 2, no. 7 (Extension Bull. No. 19). A brief manual for the use of teachers. 

They Who Keep Us Clean. Miriam Finn Scott. Outlook, April 27, pp. 919-924. 

Making Weights and Measures Fair. Richard Benton. Tech. World Mag., 
August, pp. 690-693. 



ADMINISTRATION SECTION MEETING. LAKE PLACID, 

NEW YORK. 

Upon invitation of the Lake Placid Club, the Administration 
Section of the American Home Economics Association held its third 
annual meeting at the Lake Placid Club, Essex County, New York, 
from June 22 to 26, 1912. The program as presented at the meeting 
was as follows: 

Program. 

Saturday, June 22, g.30 a.m. 

Address of welcome, by Melvil Dewey, president Lake Placid Club. 

Committee on Administration, Mrs. Dewey, honorary chairman. 

The Problem of an Agricultural College Dining Hall for 500, Mary Urie Watson, 
MacDonald Institute, Guelph, Ontario. 

Data Regarding the Kind and Cost of Food Served at a Club for Men, Dr. 
C. F. I..angworthy, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Directions for Kitchen and Dining-room Employees, Mrs. Dewey. 

Saturday, 8.00 p.m. 

Administration in the Private Home, Flora Rose, Cornell University, chairman. 

The Relation of Household Administration to Public Utilities, Martha Bensley 
Bruere, New York City. 

Facilities for Marketing and Cost of Living, E. E. Pratt, New York Food 
Investigating Commission. 

Monday, June 24, g.30 a.m. 

Committee on Laundries, S. Maria Elliott, Simmons College, chairman. 
Report on Organization and Administration of Institution Laundries. 
Regulation and Inspection of Commercial Laundries, Helen Woodford Pratt> 
Consumers' League, New York City. William C. Rogers, deputy state commis- 
sioner of labor, Albany, N. Y. 

Monday, 8.00 p.m. 

Efficiency in Administration, Emma H. Gunther, chairman. 
Principles of Scientific Management Applied to the Household and Institution, 
Frank B. Gilbreth, consulting engineer, New York City. 

Discussion: Wanted, A Test for "Man Power," introduced by Mrs. Dewey. 



1912] Administration Section Meeting 373 

Tuesday, June 25, g.jo a.m. 

Committee on Education, Sarah Louise Arnold, dean of Simmons College, 
chairman. 

Report on Instruction in Household and Institution Administration, M^iss 
Arnold. 

Practice Fields of Training for Household and Institution Management, Emma 
H. Gunther, School of Practical Arts, Teachers College, New York City. 

Tuesday, 8.00 p.m. 

Committee on School Lunches, Louise Stevens Bryant, chairman, University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 

General Development and Present Status of School Feeding Movement, Mrs. 
Bryant. 

School Lunches and Medical Inspection, Ira S. Wile, M.D., New York City. 

Elementary School Lunches in Smaller Cities, Alice M. Hotchkin, Director 
School Lunches, Rochester, N. Y. 

Wednesday, June 26, g.30 a.m. 

Committee on Institutional Accounts and Records, William Morse Cole, Har- 
vard University, chairman. 

Report of Committee on Buying Supplies, Henry C. Wright, Russell Sage Foun- 
dation, chairman. 

Food per Capita, Melvil Dewey, Lake Placid Club. 

Wednesday, 8.00 p.m. 

Committee on Dietaries, Florence Corbett, WTiittier Hall, Teachers College, 
New York City, chairman. 

Dietary Criticism and Food Surveys, Miss Corbett. 

The Hospital Diet Kitchen, M. C. Little, Polyclinic Hospital, New York City. 

The CoSperation of Dietitian and Physician, E. Grace McCullough, Boston, 
Mass. 

The Housekeeper Dietitian in the Hospital Field, Miss Lindsley, Woman's Hos- 
pital, New York City. 

The first session was called to order by Miss Van Rensselaer, 
secretary-treasurer of the section, in the absence of Miss Nutting, 
chairman. Mr. Dewey, president of the Lake Placid Club made an 
address of welcome, in which he called attention to the fact that the 
American Home Economics Association had its beginnings at Lake 
Placid, and that, although the movement had made great strides in 
the past thirteen years it was still in its infancy. At the close of 
Mr. Dewey's talk, Miss Van Rensselaer reminded those present that 
the department of Institutional Management had been inaugurated 



374 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

by Mr. and Mrs. Dewey, and that many other enterprises that have 
smce become valuable agencies for public good were started at Lake 
Placid. 

All of the meetings were full of interest, and the members present 
were most enthusiastic over the work of the section. 

At the closing session, resolutions were passed thanking Mr. and 
Mrs. Dewey for their hospitality and for the many kindnesses ex- 
tended to the members. 

Some of the papers presented will be found in this issue. 

A detailed account of the meeting, with other papers presented 
and the discussions which followed, will appear in a subsequent issue 
of the Journal. 

MEMBERS OF THE ADMINISTRATION SECTION 
PRESENT AT THE LAKE PLACID MEETING. 

Balderston, L. Ray, Instructor of Laundering, Teachers College, New York City. 

Barker, Mrs., A.B., Housekeeper, 630 Huron Street, Toronto, Canada. 

Bru6re, Martha Bensley, Writer, 39^ Washington Square, New York City. 

Bruere, Robert W., Writer on social economics. Harpers Monthly, etc., 39I Wash- 
ington Square, New York City. 

Bryant, Louise Stevens, In charge Social Service Department, Member of School 
Lunch Committee of Home Economics Association of Philadelphia, Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 

Gary, Mrs. C. McK., Superintendent Domestic Affairs, Wells College, Aurora, 
N. Y. 

Chesley, William, Manager Dining Hall, Massachusetts Agricultural College, 
Amherst, Mass. 

Child, Ruth K., Confidential Inspector for the Fiscal Supervisor of State Chari- 
ties, 477 Dana Avenue, Albany, N. Y. 

Cole, William Morse, Professor of Accounting, Harvard University, 55 Brewster 
Street, Cambridge, Mass. 

Cooper, Lenna F., Dietitian and Director of Domestic Science, Battle Creek Sani- 
tarium, Battle Creek, Michigan. 

Corbett, Florence R., Instructor, Teachers College, Director Whittier Hall Dining 
Rooms, 1230 Amsterdam Avenue, New York City. 

Countryman, E. C, Confidential Inspector Department Fiscal Supervisor of State 
Charities, The Capitol, Albany, N. Y. 

Dewey, Annie, Vice-President Lake Placid Club, Essex Co., N. Y. 

Dewey, Melvil, President Lake Placid Club, Essex County, N. Y. 

Eckman, Rena S., Dietitian, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. 

Fisher, Edgar A., Assistant Treasurer and Purchasing Agent, Earlham College, 
Richmond, Indiana. 

Fisher, Florence C, Richmond, Indiana. 



1912] Members of the Administration Section 375 

Fleming, Edith C. Cost Accounting Clerk for Public Institutions, Parliament 

Building, Toronto, Canada. 
George, Anne, Hospital Dietitian, Mt. Sinai Hospital, i East looth Street, New- 
York City. 
Gilbreth, Frank B., Consulting Management Engineer, second Vice-President 

Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, Treasurer Society for 

the Promotion of the Science of Management, Member American Society of 

Mechanical Engineers, 60 Broadway, New York City. 
Goodrich, Elizabeth M., House Superintendent Simmons College Dormitory, and 

Instructor in Institutional Management, 2 Short Street, Boston, Mass. 
Gunther, Emma H., Supervisor of Practice Institutional Management, Teachers 

College, New York City. 
Harris, Agnes Ellen, Director Department Home Economics, State College for 

Women, Tallahassee, Florida. 
Harris, Rowland H., Member of the Board of Trustees and Junior Surgeon Battle 

Creek Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Michigan. 
Hill, Mrs. Justina R., Country Inn, Northampton, Mass. 
Hill, Ruth C, Purchasing Agent and Manager Lunch Room, Radcliffe College, 

44 Martin Street, Cambridge, Mass. 
Hotchkin, Alice M., Supervisor of School Limches, 24 Calumet Street, Rochester, 

N. Y. 
Huhn, Mary E., Dietitian, The Moses Taylor Hospital, Scranton, Pa. 
Hyland, Irene, Dietitian, Bellevue Hospital, New York City. 
Jeffrey, Jean, Manager of Nasmith Lunch Room, 22 Herbert Avenue, Kew Beach, 

Toronto, Canada. 
LaGanke, Florence M., Dietitian, St. Luke's Hospital, 2175 East 71st Street, 

Cleveland, Ohio. 
Lake, Marguerite B., Managing Editor, Joxirnal of Home Economics, Forest 

Hill, Md. 
Langworthy, C. F., Vice-President American Home Economics Association, Chief 

of Nutrition Investigations, U. S. Department Agriculture, Washington, D.C., 
Laws, Edward, Manager Restaurant Department, Curtis Publishing Company, 

1215 Silver Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Leland, C. T., Dietitian, Fiscal Supervisor's Office, Albany, N. Y. 
Lindsley, Mary, Dietitian and Housekeeper, Woman's Hospital, West iioth Street, 

New York City. 
Loomis, Josephine, Teacher of Domestic Science, Buffalo Seminar>', 190 Frank- 
lin Street, Buffalo, N. Y. 
McCullough, E. Grace, Hospital Dietitian-at-Large, The Plaza, Baltimore, Md. 
Moore, Jessie S., Superintendent Kitchen and Dining Rooms, Berea College, 

Berea, Ky. 
Nellis, Carlotta S., Dietitian Woman's Division, Otisville Sanitorium, Otisville, 

N. Y. 
Parsons, Maud, Assistant in Household Science and Director of University Lunch 

Room, University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 
Peace, S. Lillian, Manager Y. W. C. A. Cafeteria, 209 Yonge Street, Toronto, 20 

McMaster Avenue Toronto, Can. 



376 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Pratt, Helen Woodford, Assistant Secretary New York City Consumers' League, 
9 Livingston Place, New York City. 

Pratt, Edward E., Mead Statistican New York Food Investigation Conunittee, 
9 Livingston Place, New York City. 

Pringle, Anna I., Member Graduate Housekeeper Class, MacDonald Institute, 
ii6 Quebec Street, Guelph, Canada. 

Reeves, Inez C, Resident Dietitian, City Hospital, Blackwells Island, N. Y. 

Rice, Susy D., Steward, Connecticut Agricultural College, Storrs, Conn. 

Richardson, Mina, Directoress Household and Dietitian, Annesley Hall, Queen's 
Park, Toronto, Can. 

Rogers, Wm. C, Deputy Commissioner of Labor, State of New York, 453 Western 
Avenue, Albany, N. Y. 

Rose, Flora, Professor of Home Economics, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y 

Ross, Sarah Gridley, Head of Residence Hall, Woman's College in Brown Uni- 
versity, 118 Cushing Street, Providence, R. I. 

Rutherford, Marion K., Graduate of MacDonald Institute, Owen Sound, Ontario, 
Canada. 

Ryley, Violet M., Dietitian Students' Dining Hall, University of Toronto, Canada. 

Sanborn, Miss C. M., Inspector Nasmith Lunch Rooms, 150 Bay Street, Toronto, 
Canada. 

Sargent, Nellie M., Dietitian Eastern Maine Hospital, Bangor, Maine. 

Shailer, Mrs. W. G., Organizer and President New York State Home Economics 
Association, 1897-1907, Chairman Food Committee, 1908-1912; New York 
City Consumers' League, 252 West 76th Street, New York City. 

Smellie, Miss M., Housekeeper MacDonald Hall and Institute. Instructor in 
Housekeeping Methods, MacDonald Hall, Guelph, Canada. 

Stevens, Rose C, Secretary Purchasing Committee of Superintendents Contract- 
ing for SuppHes for State Charitable Institutions, 343 Hamilton Steet, Albany, 
N. Y. 

Stewart, Gwendolyn, Assistant in Editing, Correspondence Course in Domestic 
Science, International Correspondence School, 417 Jefferson Avenue, Scran- 
ton, Pa. 

Sykes, Carol, Dietitian, State Hospital, Scranton, Pa. 

Taylor, John Lewis, Assistant Comptroller Harvard University, and Treasurer 
Symmes Arlington Hospital, Dane Hall, Cambridge, Mass. 

Tennent, J. Ethel, Superintendent of Students' Residence, University, Saskatoon, 
Sask., Canada. 

Treat, Nola, Director PubHc School Lunch Room, 320 W. North St., Decatur, 
lU. 

Tutton, Mabel A., ]\Ianager of the Cafe and Spa, Central Y. M. C. A., 140 York 
Street, Buffalo, N. Y. 

Van Rensselaer, Martha, Professor of Home Economics, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
N. Y. 

Watson, Mary Urie, Director of Home Economics Department, MacDonald Insti- 
tute, Ontario Agricultural College, Guelph, Canada. 

Whitney, Jennie, Home Economics Department Housekeeper and Teacher, Union 
Settlement, 237 East 104th Street, New York City. 



1912] Members of the Administration Section 377 

Wile, Ira S., M.D., Member New York School Lunch Committee, New York Milk 
Committee, Lecturer on Dietetics, etc., New York City Food Committee, 
230 West 97th St., New York City. 

Williams, Grace F., Instructor in Domestic Science, Milwaukee-Downer College, 
Milwaukee, Wis. 

Wood, Angeline, Home Economist in State School of Agriculture, Alfred, N. Y. 



GRADUATE SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS. 

The Fourth Graduate School of Home Economics was held at the 
Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, Michigan, from July 
I to 26, at the same time and place as the Graduate School of Agri- 
culture. As in former years arrangements were made so that students 
in either school could attend lectures in both schools. The course 
this year was extended from two to four weeks, in order that labo- 
ratory courses in food microbiology and chemistry could be given. 

The attendance was much larger than ever before, students regis- 
tering from thirteen states. It is interesting to note the various lines 
that the members were following, teachers in colleges, normal, high, 
and grade schools, supervisors of Home Economics in schools, diet- 
itians, and housekeepers, by far the greater number being teachers. 

The program of the school, and lectures given in the Graduate 
School of Agriculture which were of especial interest to the Home 
Economics student, are given below. In addition to the regular 
program, there were several social events which served to bring the 
students of the two schools together, an excursion to a mint farm, 
an inspection trip to a city milk factory, etc. The committee in charge 
of the school consisted of Mrs. Alice P. Norton, chairman. Miss 
Edna D. Day, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, 
Miss Maude Gilchrist, Miss Agnes Hunt, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, 
and Dr. L. B. Mendel. 

Program. 

Monday, July i. 

8.00-9.00 a.m. ^ Dr. H. C. Sherman, professor of food chemistry, Columbia Uni- 
versity: Functions of Food and of the Digestive Ferments. 

9.30-1 1. 30 a.m. Dr. J. Merritt Matthews, consulting chemist to the textile indus- 
tries. New York City: Fundamental Properties of Textiles. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Conference, led by Mrs. Alice P. Norton, University of Chicago; 
General Scope of the Work. 

2.00-3.00 p.m.i Dr. T. N. Carver, professor of political economy, Harvard 
University: The Law of Limiting Factors and Its Bearing upon the 
Distribution of Wealth and Population as Between Country and City. 

^ Given in the Graduate School of Agriculture. 
378 



1912] Graduate School of Home Economics 379 

2.00-3.00 p.m.i Dr. H. N. Ogden, professor of sanitary engineering, ComeU 
University: Methods of Estimating the Value of Sanitation. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory, Dr. Otto Rahn, assistant professor of 
bacteriology, Michigan Agricultural College. Chemistry Laboratory, Prof. 
Frank S. Kedzie, Michigan Agricultural College. 

3.00-5.00 p. m.i Dr. Sherman: Seminar. 

Tuesday, July 2. 

8.00-9.00 a. m.^ Dr. Sherman: Protease and Lipase. 

9.30-1 1.30 a.m. Dr. Matthews: Textile Fibers, Wool and Hair Fibers, Related 

Fibers. 
1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 
2.00-3.00 p.m. 1 Dr. Carver: The Economizing of Human Energy in Rural as 

Compared with Urban Industries. 
2.00-3.00 p.m.^ Dr. Ogden: Pure Water and the Results of Pollution. 
3.00-5.00 p.m. Dr. N. E. Goldthwaite, assistant professor of household science, 

University of Illinois: The Principles of Jelly Making. 

Wednesday, July 3. 

8.00-9.00 a. m.i Dr. Sherman: Sucrase and Amylase. 

9.30-1 1.30 a.m. Dr. Matthews: Silk: Microscopical and Physical Properties. 

Chemical Nature and Property of Silk. 
1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 
2.00-3.00 p.m.^ Dr. Carver: The Economizing of Land. 
2.00-3.00 p.m.i Dr. Ogden: The Purification of Water. 
3.00-5.00 p.m. Dr. Sherman: Seminar-Dietetics. 
8.00-10.00 p.m. Public Opening: Dr. Armsby presiding. President Snyder, Dean. 

Shaw, Dr. True, Dean Gilchrist. 

Thursday, July 4. 

8.00-9.00 a.m.^ Dr. Sherman: Utilization of Specific Food Materials (i). 

9.3o-ii.3oa.m.' Dr. Matthews: Vegetable Fibers: Physical Structures, Chemi- 
cal Constitution, Chemical Reactions. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 

2.00-3.00 p.m.^ Dr. Carver: Do We Want a Larger Product per Acre, or a Larger 
Product per Man? 

2.00-3.00 p.m.' Dr. Ogden: Sewerage and Sewage Disposal by Dilution. 

3.00-5.00 p.m. Dr. Matthews: Seminar-Textiles. 

Friday, July 5. 

8.00-9.00 a.m. 1 Dr. Sherman: Utilization of Specific Food Materials (2). 
9.30-11.30 a.m. Dr. Matthews: Chemical Reactions (continued): Dye Stuffs. 
Conditions of Mercerizing. Properties of Mercerized Cotton. 

* Given in the Graduate School of Agricialture. 



380 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 

2.00-3.00 p.m. 1 Dr. Carver: The Rural Population. 

2.00-3.00 p.m. 1 Dr. Ogden: Sewage Purification. 

3.00-5.00 p. m.i Dr. Carver: Seminar. 

Saturday, July 6. 

9.00-ii.ooa.m.i Conference, College Instruction in Agriculture, led by Dean 
T. F. Hunt, Pennsylvania State College. 

Monday, July 8. 

8.00-9.00 a.m.^ Dr. L. B. Mendel, professor of physiological chemistry, Yale 
University: The Biochemistry of Selected Tissues. 

g. 30-10.30 a.m. Conference: Aims in Domestic Science Teaching, led by Miss 
Ruth Wardall, Ohio State University. 

ii.oo-i2.ooa.m.^ Dr. C. E. Marshall, professor of bacteriology and hygiene, 
Michigan Agricultural College: Biology of the Cell. The General Nature 
of the Cell and its Metabolism. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 

2.00-3.00 p. m.i Mr. C. J. Galpin, lecturer on country life, Department of Agri- 
cultural Economics, University of Wisconsin: What is a Rural Community? 
How to Study it by Means of a Survey. 

3.00-5.00 p.m. Dr. Mendel: Seminar. 

Tuesday, July g. 

8.00-9.00 a.m.i Dr. Mendel: Enzymes and Fermentations. 

9.00-1 1. 00 a.m. Miss Agnes Hunt, professor of domestic science, Michigan Agri- 
cultural College: Effects of Heat on Protein. Demonstration. 

11.00-12.00 a.m.i Dr. W. G. Giltner, research assistant in bacteriology, Michigan 
Agricultural College: Biology of the Cell. The Toxins of the Cell. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 

2.00-3.00 p.m.^ Mr. Galpin: Community Festivals as Agencies of Social Con- 
tact. 

Wednesday, July 10. 

8.00-9.00 a.m.^ Dr. ISIendel: Food Transportation within the Organism. 
9.00-1 1. 00 a.m. Prof. Hunt: Effects of Heat on Fats. Demonstration. 
ii.oo-i2.ooa.m.^ Dr. Otto Rahn, assistant professor of bacteriology, Michigan 

Agricultural College: Biology of the Cell. Energy of the Cell. 
1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratorj'. 
2.00-3.00 p.m.^ Dr. W. O. Hedrick, professor of history and economics, Michigan 

Agricultural College: Human Ecology — Environmental Conditions. 
8.00-10.00 p. m.^ Conference, led by Dr. J. M. Coulter. 



Given in the Graduate School of Agriculture. 



191 2] Graduate School of Home Economics 381 

Thursday, July 11. 

8.00-9.00 a. m.i Dr. Mendel: Newer Researches on Nutrition in Growth and 

Maintenance. 
9.00-1 1. 00 a.m. Prof. Hunt: Effects of Heat on Carbohydrates. Demonstra-' 

tion. 
11.00-12.00 a.m.^ Mr. C. W. Brown, research assistant in bacteriology, Michigan 

Agricultural College: Biology of the Cell. Enzjines of the Cell. 
1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory-. Chemistry Laboratory. 
2.00-3.00 p.m. Dr. Hedrick: Human Responses. 
3.00-5.00 p.m. Dr. Mendel: Seminar. Teaching of Dietetics and Hygiene in 



Dress. 



Friday, July 12. 



8.00-9.00 a. m.i Dr. Mendel: Synthesis in Nutrition. 

9.00-10.00 a.m. Dr. Sophonisba P. Breckinridge, assistant professor of social 

economy, University of Chicago: The Spending of Money, 
lo.oo-ii.oo a.m. Dr. Breckinridge: Economic Cooperation of Women. 
ii.oo-i2.ooa.m.i Dr. F. H. Van Suchtelen, research assistant in Bacteriology, 

Michigan Agricultural College: Biology of the Cell. The Products of the 

Cell. 
1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 
2.00-3.00 p.m.^ Dr. Hedrick: The New Geography. 
3.00-4.00 p.m. Dr. Breckinridge: Woman's Responsibility for the Condition of 

the Wage Earner. 
4.0C-5.00 p.m. Dr. Breckinridge: Standardization of the Care of Children. 
8.00-10.00 p.m.i Conference: Agricultural Research, led by Dean H. L. Russell. 

Monday, July 15. 

8.00-9.00 a. m.i Dr. Oscar Riddle, research associate, Carnegie Institute, Chi- 
cago: Embryology and Evolution. The Two Aspects of Development. 

9.30-10.30 a.m. Conference: Teaching of Textiles, led by Mrs. L. L. Peppard, 
Michigan Agricultural College. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory'. Chemistry Laboratory. 

3.00-5.00 p.m. ^ Dr. Riddle: Seminar. 

Tuesday, July 16. 

8.00-9.00 a.m. 1 Dr. Riddle: The Elementary Phenomena of Development. 

9.30-10.30 a.m. Miss Minna C. Denton, assistant professor of bacteriology and 
sanitation, Lewis Institute, Chicago: Newer Aspects of Sanitation. Ven- 
tilation. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 



' Given in the Graduate School of Agriculture. 



382 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Wednesday, July ly. 

8.00-9.00 a.m. ^ Dr. Riddle: The Physiological Basis of Sex. 

9.30-10.00 a.m. Prof. Denton: Relation of the Consumer to the Improvement 
of the Sanitary Quality of the Milk Supply. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 

8.00-10.00 p.m. Conference with the Graduate School of Agriculture, Exten- 
sion Work, led by Mr. Tuck of Cornell University. 

Thursday, July 18. 

8.00-9.00 a.m.^ Dr. Riddle: The Physiology of the Development of Color Char- 
acters (i). 

9.30-10.30 a.m. Prof. Denton: Some Points in Sanitation. 

11.00-12.00 a.m. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Chief of Nutrition Investigations, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture: Respiration Calorimeters. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 

3.00-5.00 p.m. Conference: Extension Work, led by Miss L. A. Harkins, Mon- 
tana Agricultural College. 

Friday, July ig. 

8.00-9.00 a.m.^ Dr. Riddle: The Physiology of the Development of Color Char- 
acters (2). 

9.30-10.30 a.m. Prof. Denton: Teaching of Sex Hygiene. 

1 1. 00-12.00 a.m. Dr. Langworthy: Evolution of Table Manners and Customs. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 

4.00-5.00 p.m. Mr. Michael Carmichael Carr, Theory and Practice of Art, Uni- 
versity of Missouri: The Meaning of Dress. 

8.00-10.00 p.m. Conference with the Graduate School of Agriculture, Agricul- 
tural Extension, led by Prof. G. I. Christie. 

Saturday, July 20. 
8.00-9.30 a.m. Mr. Carr: The Costume of the Future. 

Monday, July 22. 

8.00-9.00 a. m.i Dr. E. B. Forbes, chief of nutrition, Ohio Experiment Station: 

The Mineral Elements in Animal Nutrition. The Mineral Elements in 

Relation to General Physiology. 
9.30-10.30 a.m.^ Mr. R. M. Washburn, associate professor of dairy husbandry, 

University of Minnesota: Nutritive Value of Various Milks. Survey of 

the Field. Plan of the Experiments. 
11.00-12.00 a.m. Conference: Courses of Instruction, led by Mrs. Alice P. Norton, 

University of Chicago. 
1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 
3.00-5.00 p.m. Dr. Forbes: Seminar. 

1 Given in the Graduate School of Agriculture. 



191 z] Graduate School of Home Economics 383 

Tuesday, July 23. 

8.00-9.00 a.m. 1 Dr. Forbes: The Balance of Basic and Acid Compounds in Nu- 
trition. 

9.30-10.30 a.m. 1 Prof. Washburn: Fat vs. Lean Milk. A Study of Correctives. 

1 1. 00-12. 00 a.m. Miss Grace Smith, Technical High School, Springfield, Mass.: 
Industrial History as Related to the Teaching of Textiles. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 

3.00-5.00 p.m. ^ Dr. Forbes: Seminar. 

4.00-5.00 p.m. Dr. Edna D. Day, professor of Home Economics, University of 
Kansas: The Effect of Cooking on Vegetable Foods. Starch. 

Wednesday, July 24. 

8.00-9.00 a.m.* Dr. Forbes: Individual Elements and Their Compounds in Metab- 
olism. 
9.30-10.30 a.m. ^ Prof. Washburn: Holstein vs. Jersey Milk. Homogenized vs. 

Normal Milk. 
1 1. 00-12.00 a.m. Miss Smith: Early History of Textiles. Linen and Wool. 
1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 
4.00-5.00 p.m. Prof . Agnes Hunt : Investigation for the Undergraduate. 
8.00-10.00 p.m.' Conference: The Practicum Side of Secondary Instruction in 

Agriculture, led by Prof. W. H. French, Michigan State Agricultural 

College. 

Thursday, July 25. 

8.00-9.00 a. m.i Dr. Forbes: Practical Considerations. 

9.30-10.30 a.m. 1 Prof. Washburn: Increasing Bone Strength. Conclusions and 

Commercial Considerations. 
1 1. 00-12.00 a.m. Miss Smith: The Industrial Revolution. 
1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 
4.00-5.00 p.m. Dr. Day: The Effect of Cooking on Vegetables (cont.). Cellulose. 
7.30-9.00 p. m.i Conference: Collegiate Instruction in Agriculture, led by Dr. 



True. 



Friday, July 26. 



8.00-9.00 a.m.' Dr. Forbes: Methods of Investigation and Interpretation of 

Results. 
9.30-10.30 a.m.' Prof. Washburn: The Influence of Fat, Sugar, and Gelatine in 

Ice Cream. 
1 1. 00-12.00 a.m. Miss Smith: Cotton. 

1.00-3.00 p.m. Bacteriology Laboratory. Chemistry Laboratory. 
3.00-5.00 p.m.' Prof. Washburn: Seminar. 



' Given in the Graduate School of Agriculture. 



NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION. 

At the fiftieth annual convention of the National Education Asso- 
ciation, held in Chicago, July 6 to 12, the American Home Economics 
Association held one session, under the Department of Manual Train- 
ing and Art, in the Fullerton Hall of the Art Institute. Miss Isabel 
Bevier of the University of Illinois, president of the American Home 
Economics Association, presided. 

The topic of the afternoon was The Economics of the Household, 
with the following papers: Distribution of Income, $500, $1000, and 
$2000 per Year for the Family of Five, Mary S. Snow, supervisor of 
household arts in the public schools of Chicago; Dietetic Standards 
for these Various Households, Miss Bevier; and Obligations of Society 
toward the $500 Income, Mrs. Raymond Robins, head of the Na- 
tional Women's Trade Union League of Chicago. 

A discussion of the papers was given by Miss Carrie H. Lyon, 
instructor in cooking and housekeeping, Margaret Morrison Carne- 
gie School for Women, Pittsburgh, and Mrs AUce P. Norton, assist- 
ant professor of household administration. University of Chicago. 

That the meeting was of great interest to those in attendance at 
the National Education Association was evinced by the crowded 
attendance, filling Fullerton Hall long before the meeting was called 
to order, and by the several hundreds who were turned away, also 
by the enthusiasm displayed at the conclusion of each paper. 

Other papers that were of interest to those interested in Home 
Economics were as follows: 

Topic: Rural Life Conditions and Rural Education. 

1. A Social and Educational Survey of the Rural Community. Warren H. 
Wilson, director of missions, New York, N. Y. 

2. What is Being Done to Meet the Problem: 

(a) By the Schools of Guilford County, North Carolina. T. R. Foust, 

county superintendent, Greensboro, N. C. 
(ft) By the State of Oregon. L. R. Alderman, state superintendent of 

public instruction, Salem, Oregon, 
(c) In North Dakota. James H. Worst, president of State Agricultural 

College and director of Experiment Station, N. Dak. 

3. The Humanity of Highways. Mary E. DeGarmo, director of country life 
department, National Congress of Mothers, St. Louis, Mo. 

384 



1912] National Education Association 385 

4. The School, the College, and the English Farmer. E. J. Russell, director of 
Rothamsted Experimental Station, Harpenden, England. 

5. What the National Government Can Do. Philander P. Claxton, United 
States commissioner of education, Washington, D. C. 

Gardening in the Light of Racial History. Le Roy H. Harvey, Western State 
Normal School, Kalamazoo, Mich. 

The Training of Teachers for School Gardening. S. B. McCready, Ontario 
Agricultural College, Guelph, Canada. 

Nature Study and the City Child. John L. Randall, supervisor of children's gar- 
dens, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

A Garden for Every Child. Emilie Yunker, State Normal School, Louisville, 
Ky. 

Discussion: Ada Van Stone Harris, assistant superintendent of schools, Rich- 
mond, Va. 

School Gardens and the Fundamentals of Education. Otis W. Caldwell, pro- 
fessor in University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 

Report of the Committee on Course of Study in Agriculture. E. C. Bishop, 
Schools Section, Extension Department, Iowa State College of Agriculture and 
Mechanic Arts, Ames, Iowa, chairman. 
Discussion. 

The Relation of Better Highways to Country Life Betterment. Mary E. De 
Garmo, Special Agent, United States Office of Public Roads, St. Louis, Mo. 

Joint Session with the American Nature-Study Society and the School Garden 
Association of America. 

Topic: School Gardens and Agricultural Experiment Plots for Rural Schools. 

Rural School Gardens Differentiated from City School Gardens. Van Evrie 
Ealpatrick, president of School Garden Association of America, 4852 Broadway, 
New York, N. Y. 

Rural School Gardens: Results in Ontario, Canada. S. B. McCready, Ontario 
Agricultural College, Guelph, Canada. 

Home Garden and Experiment Plots. Elliott R. Downing, assistant professor 
in School of Education, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111., secretary of American 
Nature-Study Society. 

Forestry in Rural Schools. E. R. Jackson, United States Forest Service ,Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Topic: Redirection of Rural Education. 

The Work of the United States Bureau of Education. Philander P. Claxton, 
United States commissioner of education, Washington, D. C. 

The Plans of the Special Committee of the National Education Association on 
Rural Education. E. T. Fairchild, state superintendent of public instruction, 
Topeka, Kans. 

The Betterment of Rural Schools Through Agriculture: The Ohio Plan. F. W. 
Miller, state commissioner of education, Columbus, Ohio. .. 

The Betterment of Rural Schools Through Boys' and Girls' Clubs: The 
Nebraska Plan. James E. Delzell, state superintendent of public instruction, 
Lincoln, Nebr. 



386 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The Work of the National Committee on Agriculture. Homer H. Seerley, 
president of Iowa State Teachers College, Cedar Falls, Iowa, chairman. 

Topic: The Relation of the Public Schools to the Movement for Recreational, Social 
and Civic Opportunity. 

1. The Schoolhouse as a Social and Civic Center. Frank P. Walsh, Kansas 
City, Mo. 

2. How a Community May Find Out and Plan for its Recreational Needs. 
Rowland Haynes, field representative, Playground and Recreation Association of 
America, Minneapolis, Minn. 

3. The Relation of Schoolhouse Architecture to the Social Center Movement. 
Dwight H. Perkins, Chicago, 111. 

4. The Public Library, the Public School, and the Social Center Movement. 
Arthur E. Bostwick, Librarian, Public Library, St. Louis, Mo. 

5. The Organization and Administration of Recreation and Social Center Work. 
Erich C. Stern, member of State Legislature, Milwaukee, Wis. 

6. The School as a Recreation Center. Jane Addams, head resident, Hull 
House, Chicago, 111. 

7. The Social Center and the Rural Community. Herbert Quick, Editor of 
Farm and Fireside, Springfield, Ohio. 

Citizen Cooperation. William H. Allen, director of Bureau of Municipal 
Research, New York, N. Y. 

Civic and Social Center Development. Edward J. Ward, University of Wis- 
consin, Madison, Wis. 

Discussion: Azile B. Reynolds, principal of Kinzie School, Chicago, 111.; Pauline 
F. Witherspoon, director of social centers, Louisville, Ky. 

The Significance of the Industrial Arts in the Schools. Charles Alexander 
McMurry, director of Normal Training School, DeKalb, 111. 

Sociological Phases of Industrial Education. Frank M. Leavitt, associate pro- 
fessor of industrial education. University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 

Discussion: William J. Bogan, principal of Lane Technical High School, Chi- 
cago, 111.; Charles H. Bailey, director of manual training, State Teachers College, 
Cedar Falls, Iowa; David Snedden, commissioner of education, Boston, Mass. 

The Place of Art in the High School of Commerce. J. Earl GriflBth, Central 
Commercial and Manual Training High School, Newark, N. J. 

The Value of Art in the Industrial School. Walter Sargent, professor of aes- 
thetic and industrial education. University of Chicago, Chicago, 111. 

The Dresden Congress. Florence E. Ellis, supervisor of drawing, Cleveland, 
Ohio. 

Discussion: Rose Fetterof, state supervisor of art instruction, Harrisburg, Pa. 

Vocational Training Old and New. T. Vernette Morse, president of Artcraft 
Institute Guild, Chicago, 111. 

The Needed Changes in Manual Arts. Fred D. Crawshaw, professor of manual 
arts, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 

Is the Introduction of Technical Subjects in the Eighth Grade Advisable? Wil- 
son H. Henderson, supervisor of manual training, Springfield, 111. 



igi2] National Education Association 387 

Discussion: E. A. Wreidt, fellow in education, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
111.; Robert W. Selvidge, professor of manual arts, Teachers College, University 
of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.; L. L. Summers, director of manual training in State 
Normal School, Oshkosh, Wis.; L. W. Wahlstrom, Francis W. Parker School, 
Chicago, 111. 

Topic: Science in Practical Courses. 

1. Communal Chemistry: How May the Teaching of Chemistry Promote the 
Well-Being of the Community? Lewis B. Allyn, State Normal School, Westfield, 
Mass. 

2. Chemistry and Household Science. J. F. Snell, MacDonald College, Ste. 
Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, Canada. 

3. Applied Botany. George A. Works, student in agricultural education, Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 

4. Physics and the Equipment Problem. J. A. Randall, Pratt Institute, Brook- 
lyn, N. Y. 

Joint Session with the Department of Physical Education. 

Sexual Reproduction in Animals: The Purpose and Methods of Teaching It. 
Mary Putnam Blount, instructor in zoology. University High School, Chicago, 
III. 

The Physical Growth of the Child and Its Hygiene. W. A. Evans, M.D., 
Northwestern University, Evanston, III. 

The Selection of Physical Activities as Determined by the Laws of Growth. 
William H. Burnham, professor of pedagogy and school hygiene, Clark University, 
Worcester, Mass. 

DEPARTMENT OF CHILD HYGIENE. 

President's Address: The Contribution of Hygiene to Education. William H. 
Burnham, professor of pedagogy and school hj-giene, Clark University, Worcester, 
Mass. 

The Hygiene of Rural Schools. Fletcher B. Dresslar, speciahst in school 
hygiene. United States Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. 

Child Hygiene in the Primary Grades. Arnold L. Gesell, assistant professor 
of education, Yale University, New Haven, Conn. 

department of science instruction. 

President's Address, David Starr Jordan, president of Leland Stanford Junior 
University, Stanford University, Cal. 

Eugenics. William A. McKeever, State Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kans. 
Scientific Study of the Psychology and Physiology of Adolescence: 

(a) A Study in Adolescent Efficiency. J. H. McCurdy, director of physi- 

cal department, International Y. M. C. A. Training College, Spring- 
field, Mass. 

(b) A Psychological Classification of High School Boys. George E. Daw- 

son, director of department of child study, Henrj' Barnard School, 
Hartford, Conn. 



388 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Topic: The Public Schools and the Public Health. 

1. The Duty of the State in the Medical Inspection of Schools; Results which 
the Public may Rightfully Expect. Fletcher B. Dresslar. 

2. The Teaching of Hygiene in the Schools: Public, Personal. David Starr 
Jordan, president of Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal. 

3. Sanitation in the Rural Community. Charles E. North, M.D., New York, 
N. Y. 

4. Medical Inspection and Medical Freedom. Charles A. L. Reed, M.D., 
Cincinnati, Ohio. 

5. Some Problems in Education, as Related to the Public Health. Harvey 
W. Wiley, contributing editor and director of bureau of foods and health, Good 
Housekeeping Magazine, Washington, D. C. 

Educational Values of the School Yard, or Playground. E. B. De Grott, super- 
intendent of playgrounds and sports. South Park Commission, Chicago, III. 
Discussion. 

Facilities for Industrial Training. Charles A. Prosser, secretary of Society 
for the Promotion of Industrial Education, New York, N. Y. 
Continuation Schools. Edwin G. Cooley, Chicago, 111. 
Discussion. 

(a) The High School Course in General Science. V. G. Barnes, High 
School, Madison, Wis. 
Discussion: Ada L. Weckel, Oak Park and River Forest Township High School, 
Oak Park, 111. 

(t) Method in the General Science Course. John G. Coulter, Blooming- 
ton, 111. 
Discussion: W. L. Eikenberry, University High School, Chicago, 111. 



EDITORIALS. 

The American Home Economics Association has rendered nation- 
wide service during the past summer, by the meetings held under 
its auspices at Lake Placid, Chicago, and East Lan- 
The Summer sing, which are reported elsewhere in this issue. 
Meetings. The Lake Placid meeting brought together a group 

of persons concerned with the teaching of household 
and institution administration or with service in these fields. One 
of the noteworthy features was the presence of a number of experts 
in scientific management, municipal problems, and the organization 
of labor, who made invaluable contributions to the program. The 
gathering primarily emphasizes the fact that household management, 
whether domestic or institutional, is being professionalized. The 
statement that the household is a business vmdertaking expresses, 
of course, only a part truth. It is of profound significance for the 
personal life of the home, however, that the business of the home is 
to be approached, in the future, in business terms, with the same 
standards of eflBciency and economy that are being upheld in other 
fields. 

The Home Economics papers at the meeting of the National Educa- 
tion Association at Chicago struck the home note in a program other- 
wise largely scholastic, and were especially well chosen in their bearing 
upon the timely topics of standards of living and cost of living. Home 
Economics, it was seen, is an essential element in national prosperity 
and welfare. The next meeting of the National Education Associa- 
tion, it was recommended by this convention, will be held in Salt Lake 
City next summer. If this plan is carried out it will provide oppor- 
tunity for a much needed Home Economics meeting in the West. 

The Graduate School at East Lansing was the most successful 
ever held. It more than justified the plan of bringing together every 
other year those teachers in Home Economics who find it possible to 
meet and consider the advances in subject matter and methods of 
teaching in this new field of instruction. Workers in this field do 
well to remember that their work is not yet finished and that their 
instruction must be constantly improving. Some one has raised the 

389 



390 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

question whether future meetings of the school might not be held in 
connection with the regular summer sessions of different universi- 
ties where credit might be given for courses taken. 

In these meetings of the summer the Association has done a large 
ser\ace for the progress of Home Economics. Credit belongs to 
each member of the Association who by membership dues furnishes 
means for such activities. 

In this number, programs and brief summaries are printed of the 
summer meetings of the American Home Economics Association, as 
well as several papers presented at the Administra- 
Reports of the tion Section held at Lake Placid. Other papers pre- 
Summer sented at the Lake Placid meetings and the discus- 

Meetings, sion which the papers brought out will appear in the 

December number. 

For the benefit of those particularly interested in the work of this 
Section, it is proposed to reprint the papers and discussion in a pam- 
phlet which will be sold in the same way as other reprints of mate- 
rial which has appeared in the Journal. It is believed that this 
plan will meet the needs of members and will be a convenience for 
librarians and others who are interested in the collection of literature 
bearing upon the subject of institution management. 

As was natural, teaching was the first professional field open to 
Home Economics students. In the last few years, however, a wide 
range of positions, institutional, municipal, and indus- 
Technical trial, has come to be recognized in which the subject 

Opportunities matter of Home Economics finds application in prac- 
in Home Eco- tical ways. As food economics and dietetics are the 
nomics. divisions of household science most fully developed, 

so these fields have first found practical application. 
Such positions as institutional dietitian, visiting dietitian, lunch- 
room manager, purveyor, or institutional buyer, are definitely recog- 
nized as positions of dignity which command compensation as good 
as that for teaching. Domestic art finds its commercial applications 
similarly in the professions of interior decoration, costume design, 
professional shopping, dressmaking, and millinery. The costume 
designer, for example, may find employment with a newspaper or 
magazme, or may take a position as a designer in a tailoring estab- 



1912] Editorials 391 

lishment, while educational positions in this field are open to those 
who prefer teaching. 

Other specialized positions are being recognized. The supervisor 
of a large institutional laundry is a responsible position, commandiqg 
in one case a $1200 salary with home. Some adventurous women 
have even experimented with the management of a commercial laun- 
dry, though, with one well-known exception, these have all been 
conducted on a small scale. The manager of a lunch room in a com- 
mercial establishment, a bank, a department store, has a field of 
work full of interesting possibilities and of great responsibility. 

The time was not long ago when young women turned to teaching 
as the one profession open to them. Now vocational opportunities 
are opening on every hand. The volume on Vocations for Women 
Other than Teaching, published by the Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union of Boston, ofi'ers guide posts in these new fields. 
It should be in every Home Economics library. Our college depart- 
ments and technical institutes are spying out the possibilities of voca- 
tions relating to Home Economics, and students who are contem- 
plating a Home Economics course have already a wide choice in fields 
other than teaching. 

The question of compensation in these new fields is always an 
important one to the inquirer. In general it may be said that salaries 
tend to be at least equal to teachers' salaries, with this important 
qualification: The business and commercial world ever recognizes 
initiative and the power of assuming responsibility by increased com- 
pensation. The person in a managing position controls the purse 
strings, and is able to effect savings and economies; the compensa- 
tion of such a person is limited only by the value of that indefinite 
but infinitely useful qualification, executive ability. 

Our institutions are not likely to over-emphasize the opportunities 
in these new non-teaching fields. Because of them, the individual 
student has now a wider range of choice and should be able better 
to choose work in accordance with personal qualifications. Educa- 
tional work also will profit indirectly by these newer developments, 
and a better adjustment of persons and positions all the way around 
is effected. 



392 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

A discussion in a recent number of the Experiment Station Record 
of the need and the opportunity for research work in Home Econom- 
ics is so much to the point that it seems well to direct 
Research and the attention of readers of the Journal to much 
Home Egg- that was there said. 

nomics. One of the significant educational developments 

of recent years has been the increasing recognition 
accorded to instruction in Home Economics. Although the term 
itself was unfamiliar a generation ago, at the present time Home 
Economics courses are being offered in this country in more than 
twelve himdred institutions, of which over two hundred are colleges 
and normal schools. Extension work has likewise been well organized 
in many of the States, largely with a view to reaching the women on 
the farm, although the need for work for the benefit of city and town 
housekeepers has not been, by any means, lost sight of. In short, 
Home Economics instruction is already emerging from the pioneer 
stage and becoming an accepted factor in American education. 

One of the principal obstacles which educators are encountering 
in their efforts to reduce the subject to sound pedagogical form is 
the comparatively retarded development of experimental work. It 
is well recognized that, as is the case with other composite branches 
of learning, Home Economics is largely a specific application of the 
principles of chemistry, bacteriology, physics, and other subjects; 
but, as is also the case with agriculture and other composite subjects, 
there are required to make it most effective special investigations 
and experiments, made from the standpoint of those who appreciate 
the needs and use to be made of such information. 

Considering Home Economics as including the economic, scientific, 
and esthetic aspects of food, clothing, and shelter as connected with 
their selection, preparation, and use by the family in the home or 
by other groups of people, it is a matter of everyday knowledge that 
many of its practical applications are still largely governed by rule- 
of-thumb or by tradition. For example, the laws of heat are well 
understood in the scientific world, but their application to cookery, 
to food preservation, or to the heating of houses needs far more investi- 
gation that it has thus far received. 

The present is preeminently the era of machinery, but the improve- 
ment of household appliances has been left almost entirely to com- 
mercial exploitation, and progress has admittedly lagged far behind 



1912] Editorials 393 

achievements in the factory and on the farm. Yet it is surely true 
that if there are to be rehable comparisons of the merits of different 
foods or textiles, or of different labor-saving or sanitary devices, there 
must be scientific tests by those familiar with the housekeeper's needs 
and competent to work out her problems. 

It is even more important now than it was a few years ago that 
there should be a sound scientific basis for instruction on how food 
materials can be best utilized in family diets, how houses should be 
constructed, furnished, and managed, and what materials are most 
suited for clothing, because of late years there has been less and less 
opportunity to acquire experience in such matters in the home itself. 
Two or three generations ago each home, and especially each rural 
home, was practically self-sufl&cient, producing not only its own food 
supply, but, to a large extent, its own clothing, and constructing its 
buildings in such a simple way that any intelligent and experienced 
laborer could understand the principles involved. Now, however, 
a great many branches of work which were formerly home industries 
have been taken over by factories or by specialized workers, and 
there is no longer the opportunity to learn about them by practical 
trials in the home. In many cases such knowledge as is available is 
still, to a certain extent, handed down in an empirical way from 
mother to daughter, but in many others it would soon die out entirely 
did not schools or other educational agencies supply it, and these 
must acquire exact knowledge before they can transmit it. 

It is true that many of the problems encountered are more or less 
isolated in appUcation, and that much can be accomplished by indi- 
vidual initiative within the home and many housekeepers do solve 
their special problems. But it is as unreasonable to look to the house- 
keeper for progress along technical hnes, which yield general results 
obtained under contrasted conditions, as to expect the farmer to work 
out the fundamental principles of his art. 

Just as the trained experimenter was needed for the conversion 
of agriculture from a traditional to a scientific basis, so all that relates 
to hygiene and household methods and to the host of related ques- 
tions demands careful study by experts having proper equipment 
for the undertaking. 

Fortunately the dependence of Home Economics instruction upon 
research is becoming generally recognized and the belief that house- 
keeping is largely a matter of inspiration and feminine intuition, 



394 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

with no accumulated store of information to draw upon, is rapidly 
giving way to the modern view that "a knowledge of housekeeping 
is not a matter of sex but of science." 

During the last twenty or thirty years much attention to research 
by laboratory methods in problems affecting the home has been given, 
to some extent by Home Economics workers themselves and even 
more largely by scientists in associated lines. Agriculture in par- 
ticular has contributed most valuable assistance, the community of 
interests between the production of food supplies, textiles, and other 
farm products and their utilization within the home being generally 
recognized. 

Most of the agricultural experiment stations have from time to 
time studied problems which have to do with the handling, storing, 
and marketing of foods, while many have had to deal with food and 
drug inspection. They have also studied many technical as well 
as practical problems of milling and dairying, and other problems 
which pertain to the home as distinguished from the farm as an indus- 
trial enterprise. Of such work may be mentioned studies of the 
composition and digestibiHty of foods, numerous studies of cooking 
processes and of canning, dietary studies, the improvement in quality 
of cotton, flax, and wool, studies of household equipment and con- 
veniences, and the cost of board for laborers on farms. 

An important service has also been rendered by the engineering 
experiment stations established at several of the agricultural or ''land 
grant" colleges. Comparisons of different illuminants and fuels, and 
studies of sewage disposal plants and of building materials, may be 
cited as types of the work already undertaken. 

It is well known that the U. S. Department of Agriculture has 
made a large number of contributions to Home Economics, the nu- 
trition investigations of the Ofi&ce of Experiment Stations and the 
activities of nearly every bureau containing much of interest. The 
work on food adulteration of the Bureau of Chemistry, the studies 
of household insect pests of the Bureau of Entomology, and the 
studies of the cost of home labor of the Bureau of Statistics are 
examples of this interest in home problems. 

The contributions of Home Economics workers themselves have 
been numerous and meritorious, especially in view of the compara- 
tive newness of the subject and the lack of organized research agen- 
cies. The attention which is being concentrated on the preparation 
of research workers is yielding results of much promise, and the list 



igi2] Editorials 395 

of additions to knowledge in the form of theses for advanced degrees 
is each year becoming more important. 

Contributions from the more mature workers actively engaged in 
instruction duties are even yet relatively few. This of course is 
unfortunate since their qualifications and experience would seem to 
promise results of exceptional value. But when one recalls the de- 
mands made on an instructor's time by classroom work, by the 
necessity for preparing outlines and text books, by the extension 
work many of them do, and by other necessary activities, it is obvious 
that not much time remains for research. 

Notwithstanding these difficulties, to which may be added those 
imposed by an absence of funds for research and often of equipment, 
the uncertainties as to the publication of results, and the lack of 
many other advantages enjoyed by a regularly organized research 
institution, it is believed that there are many opportunities for add- 
ing to the store of knowledge by the use of existing facilities. For 
instance much can be accomplished by cooperation with other depart- 
ments, for example bacteriology, chemistry, or engineering. This 
has been proved by a number of recent instances of such cooperative 
work. 

The responsibility for real progress in research, however, must 
rest largely with the Home Economics departments. Whatever the 
assistance rendered by other agencies, the upbuilding of a distinctive 
body of Home Economics knowledge must come mainly from investi- 
gations by the Home Economics workers themselves, rather than 
through the mere adaptations of either traditional methods or "bor- 
rowed science." It is well known that this has already been the 
experience in agriculture, and the close analogy between the two stud- 
ies warrants the prediction that the future of Home Economics instruc- 
tion depends very largely upon its estabhshment on a sound scientific 
foundation by those to whom its development has been specifically 
intrusted. 

Doubtless in many cases the imdertaking of comprehensive investi- 
gations by Home Economics instructors is impracticable under pres- 
ent conditions, but as in the early days of agricultural instruction, 
there are a host of smaller projects awaiting and needing solution for 
which opportunity might be found. For instance, in the field of 
textiles, there may be cited studies of the relative durability of differ- 
ent fabrics as affected by such controllable conditions as the kind of 
material, its thickness, and its closeness of weave; the permeability 



396 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

of textiles and other materials to air; the testing of various solvents 
in removing stains from fabrics; and the comparison of soaps and 
detergents in different waters and temperatures. There might well 
be additional studies of the comparative cost of household fuels and 
of illuminants, of the use of nonconducting materials in stoves and 
other cooking appUances and utensils, and of the solubility of kitchen- 
ware in different waters, fruit acids, and other liquids. The physics 
of cookery offers a great opportunity, for instance in the study of 
the relation of the specific gravity of foods to quahty. The perfect- 
ing of systems of household accounting and the investigation of the 
lessening of the time requirements of household operations, the actual 
loss incurred by the purchase of supplies in uneconomical quantities, 
and the incomplete utilization of "left overs," are other examples, 
such as will readily suggest themselves to the thoughtful observer. 
Some of these studies require time rather than special apparatus and 
might readily be carried through during the long summer vacation, 
and others demand regular attention and laboratory facilities rather 
than large amounts of time. 

In many of these cases not the least of the benefits to be secured 
would be the stimulation of the research spirit of the teacher, for 
the generally accepted opinion of President Jordan of Leland Stan- 
ford University that "no one can be a great teacher without the 
spirit of research; without this he lags behind the progress of knowl- 
edge and his mental equipment becomes second hand," is as appli- 
cable to Home Economics as to other subjects of instruction. There 
is also the same broadening and stimulating effect on advanced stu- 
dents in Home Economics as on those in other lines. 

The increasing attention which is being devoted to the more thor- 
ough training of prospective teachers in research methods is a recent 
development which augurs well for the future. The steadily improv- 
ing facilities for graduate study, and the numerous summer schools now 
available are destined to add greatly to the ultimate eflSciency of Home 
Economics instruction and experimentation. Once the inculcation 
of the spirit of research into the investigators of to-morrow can be 
accomplished, the establishment of Home Economics as a well- 
defined science will be assured, and its consistent development may 
be confidently awaited. 



1912] Future Meetings of the Association 397 

With the returning of teachers and workers from vacations, the 
canvass for the Ellen H. Richards Home Economics Memorial Fund 

will be pushed forward vigorously. We hear of many 
Richards schools and colleges which have already raised sums 

Memorial of money, often by cooperative effort through a com- 

Fund. mittee of students, a candy-sale, an entertainment, 

or some other method. Other institutions are plan- 
ning to carry out such efforts this fall. The pubUcation of the Life 
of Ellen H. Richards by CaroUne L. Hunt, extended notice of which 
will be given in a later issue, will greatly aid in the canvass. The 
Memorial fund is meantime going forward. 

FUTURE MEETINGS OF THE ASSOCIATION. 

A meeting of members of the Executive Committee of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association was held at the Auditorium Hotel, 
Chicago, June 27, 1912, and action was taken (since ratified by mem- 
bers of the committee not present) as follows, regarding the coming 
meetings of the Association: 

It was decided to try the experiment of a summer meeting of the 
entire Association, and to this end it was voted to accept the invita- 
tion of Cornell University to hold such a meeting at Ithaca, N. Y., 
at the end of June, 1913. This meeting, it is planned, will include 
all sections of the Association, with a general program and the sec- 
tional programs of the Administration Section and Housekeepers* 
Committee. It is desired especially to make the meeting one national 
in character. 

It was further voted to accept the invitation of Simmons College, 
Boston, for a meeting in that city in connection with the meetings 
of the American Economic Association and the American Sociologi- 
cal Association during the Christmas holidays, 191 2; and the New 
England Home Economics Association has been asked to cooperate 
in the arrangements. It was voted that this should be a one-day 
meeting (December 31) and that the Committee on Nominations 
should be asked to report at this meeting the results of an election 
of officers for 1913 to be held by mail preceding the meeting. 

The Housekeepers Committee announces that a conference will 
be held under its auspices at Chicago, November 20, 191 2, to consider 
problems connected with the management of the private home. In- 
formation can be secured from Mrs. Lyndon Evans, chairman, 1240 
Astor Street, Chicago, 111. Ben7amin R. Andrews, 

Secretary, American Home Economics Association. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The Second International Congress of Farm Women will meet in connection 
with the Dry Farming Congress at Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, October 22 to 
25, 191 2. The official call for the congress has been sent to 
International the chief executives of nations, governors of states, secretaries 
Congress of or ministers of agriculture, presidents and officers of univer- 

Farm Women, sities and colleges where agriculture is taught, national, state, 
or local organizations having for their object the enlargement 
of agricultural education and the uplift of home life upon the farm, editors of 
magazines and of other literature devoted to better homes and rural life, women 
on the farm, and others interested. 

The congress is working for organized effort at rural community building, beau- 
tifying and brightening of homes, more frequent opportunities for social inter- 
course, better education of children, lightening of toil in the home, and the raising 
of neighborhood standards, mentally, physically, morally, and socially. 

Among the speakers will be Miss Alice Ravenhill of Vancouver, late of England; 
Prof. George A. Putnam of Toronto, a leader in women's institute work in Canada, 
who will give the report of the Ontario Women's Institutes; Mrs. Jennie Muldrew, 
in charge of the Alberta Ladies' College at Red Deer, Alberta, whose subject will 
be Modern Education of Women; Mrs. Marie Turner Harvey, in charge of the 
consolidated school at Kirksville, Mo., conducted under state auspices, and one of 
the leading advocates of the consolidated school system, who will speak on consoli- 
dated schools; Dr. Warren H. Wilson of New York, one of the speakers at the 
first International Congress of Farm Women at Colorado Springs, who will deliver 
an address on The Rural Church and Its Possibilities as a Center for Community 
Progress, Amusement, etc., and Miss Irma E. Mathews, superintendent of women's 
institutes of the Woman's Institute of the State Board of Agriculture of Oklahoma, 
who will give an illustrated talk on Farm Homes of Our Country. 

During the meeting it is planned to have a farm women's session where talks 
along practical lines by farm women will be given. Mrs. John A. Widtsoe of 
Logan, Utah, and Dr. Liberty H. Bailey of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., 
will address the congress. 

The objects of the congress are to improve the conditions — financial, physical, 
social, and spiritual — of agricultural homes, and to encourage greater state and 
national support for institute and extension work among farm women. It aims to 
understand more completely the significance of the farm to the life of the nations, 
and the dignity of the position of the farm woman as co-worker in the most poten- 
tial and far-reaching of the national industries, to increase conservation of energy 
through intercourse and observation of processes, to understand modern appli- 
ances and education in the scientific management of work, to further develop the 
home through conference with authoritative experts on dairy methods, poultry 
culture, kitchen gardening, modern home equipment, problems of nutrition, chil- 



1912] News from the Field 399 

dren's welfare, industrial education including Home Economics, increase and 
proper use of leisure, and the stimulation of social intercourse in rural com- 
munities. 

The officers of the congress are as follows: President, Mrs. Byrtha L. Stavert, 
Editor Country Life in Canada, Winnipeg, Man.; vice-presidents. Miss Irma 
Mathews, superintendent of Women's Institute, Oklahoma City, Okla.; Mrs. 
Clark W. Kelley, Devil's Lake, N. D., and Mrs. John A. Widtsoe, Logan, Utah; 
secretary-treasurer, Mrs. John T. Burns, Lethbridge, Alberta. 

During the Congress there will be held an exhibition of labor-saving devices 
for the farm home, and a demonstration of sam'tary and hygienic devices, in con- 
nection with which lectures will be given. 

The opening meeting of this congress was held in Washington, September 4, 

and the other meetings, both business and scientific, in New York City, Septem- 

T71 u^i. T ^ ber 6 to 13. 

Eighth Interna- ,^, -^ . , , , ,r . , ^ 

., , „ The President of the United States was patron of the con- 

tional Congress , , a- , „ tt 

, . ... gress, and the omcers were as follows: Honorary president, 

-,1. . ^ Dr. Edward W. Morley; president, Dr. William H. Nichols; 

Chemistry. t, . , ^ Z,^ 

secretary, Bernhard C. Hesse. 

In addition to the formal opening session of the congress at Continental Hall, 
September 4, the Washington meeting included numerous social features. Al- 
though President Taft found it impossible to be present at the opening session, 
as had been his intention, he received the members at the White House, and made 
a brief address. There was also a reception for the members of the congress given 
by the regent and secretary of the Smithsonian Institution at the new building 
of the National Museum. 

.^t the opening meeting, the address of welcome was delivered by Dr. William 
H. Nichols, president of the congress. Responses were made by foreign delegates, 
including Prof. Dr. Rudolph Wegschneider, for Austria; Prof. L. Lindet, for 
France; Prof. Dr. von Buchka, for Germany; Sir William Ramsay, for Great 
Britain; Dr. Jokichiro Lemori, for Japan; Commanditore Giacome Ciamician, 
for Italy; Prof. P. Walden, for Russia; Prof. A. Stutzer, for Switzerland; and 
Dr. Samuel Eyde, of Norway, for other countries. 

As was the case at the seventh international congress at London in 1909, the 
program of the meetings of the various sections included much that is of interest 
to students of Home Economics. As instances may be cited the following: The 
industry and chemistry of sugar, starch, cellulose, and paper — their chemistry and 
other features, including flour, bread making, baking powder, paper testing, etc.; 
the composition of food, metabolism, dietetics, cleanliness in food manufacture; 
cooking utensils — their manufacture and effect on the composition of food, and 
related topics; water, soil, sewage, and other questions of hygiene; fats, fatty 
oils, and soaps; paints, drying oils, and varnishes; combustibles — fuels and illumi- 
nants, including the question of energy in relation to these matters; conservation 
of water for domestic use, and other related topics; India rubber and other plas- 
tics; and coal tar dyes, colors, and dyestuffs; as well as matters pertaining to 
analytical chemistry*, and other general and special topics. 

The full report was printed in advance, and distributed to the members, as 
were also separates of many of the papers. 

|DEPARTWENT| 
LCLbLiiOLD SCIENCfil 



400 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The International Congress on Hygiene and Demography has just held its 
fifteenth meeting at Washington, D. C, from September 23 to 28. In connection 
with the congress a very successful exhibition on health was 
International held, at which the hygienic and demographic work of the United 
Congress of States and its dependencies was illustrated. The congress was 

Hygiene and organized in two divisions — a division of hygiene in eight sec- 
Demography, tions, and a division of demography, as the ninth section. The 
topics for the sections were as follows: Hygienic microbiology 
and parasitology; dietetic hygiene, hygienic physiology; hygiene of infancy and 
childhood, school hygiene; hygiene of occupations; control of infectious diseases; 
state and municipal hygiene; hygiene of traffic and transportation; military, naval, 
and tropical (colonial) hygiene; demography. The Department of State assumed 
the responsibility of the conduct of the congress, and appointed for the purpose of 
its organization as president, Dr. Henry P. Walcott, of Massachusetts, and as 
secretary-general. Dr. John S. Fulton of Maryland. 

President Taft was honorary president of the Congress and deUvered an ad- 
dress of welcome at the opening session, Monday morning, September 23. Later 
he received the delegates at the White House. 

The public addresses and the section meetings were of unusual interest and 
value. Much was presented of interest to students of Home Economics, par- 
ticularly in the section of dietetic hygiene and other sections. 

An address of special interest was that by Geheimrat Professor Dr. Max 
Rubner, President of the Permanent Industrial Commission of the Congresses 
on Hygiene and Demography, who spoke on Dietetics for the People (Volks 
Ernahrung). 

At the eleventh biennial convention of the General Federation of Women's 
Clubs, held in San Francisco, June 25 to July 5, one session and a conference were 

devoted to the Household Economics Section, of which Mrs. 
Home Economics Olaf N. Guldlin of Indiana is chairman. The program of the 
at the General meeting was as follows: JSIrs. Nash, ex-president Iowa Feder- 
Federation of ation, presiding; Our Problems in Civilization, Mrs. Guldlin; 
Women's Clubs. Some Suggested Solutions — Better Dress Standards, Mrs. John 

C. Hessler, 111.; Democracy in the Home, Mrs. W. E. Miller, 
Ind.; Greetings from California, Miss Ednah A. Rich, Calif.; The Dawn of To- 
morrow, Mrs. Olaf N. Guldlin. The subjects for discussion at the conference 
were these: Home Economics Extension Work — Through Our Colleges, leader, 
Miss Rich; Through Our Clubs, leader, Mrs. Florence Martin, Louisville, Ky.; 
Our Most Vital Needs, Mrs. Harriet Pancoast, Palmyra, N. J., and Mrs. Chas. 
Ott, Waverly, N. Y.; Box Furniture, Miss Louise Brigham, New York City; House- 
hold Decoration, Mrs. Hessler. 

This School, of Athens, W. Va., of which Mr. C. L. Bemis is principal, will 

_ J oi X open this fall a new department of agriculture and one of 

Concord State ^f „ ,,• ,■ x. r , tt • 

-J 1 c I1 1 Home Econormcs. Miss Sadie Brj^son of the University of 

Minnesota will have charge of the Home Economics work. 



1 9 1 2] News from the Field 40 1 

The American Association for the Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality 
held its third annual meeting in Cleveland, October 2 to 5. The provisional pro- 
gram gives the following committees, with a series of papers 
The American under each committee: Birth registration; educational preven- 
Association for tion of infant mortality: continuation schools of home making, 
the Study and eugenics, housing in relation to infant mortality, midwifery, 
Prevention of In- nursing, and social work; prevention of municipal mortality, 
fant Mortality, and progress in preventive work. Among the speakers were 
Dr. Jacques Bertillon, Chief of the Bureau of Municipal Sta- 
tistics Paris, France. The Association had a striking exhibit at the recent Inter- 
national Congress on Hygiene and Demography. 

This association held its second annual session at the Michigan State Agri- 
cultural College the last of May. The president of the State Federation of Women's 

Clubs, Mrs. Lucy White Williams, was one of the special guests 
Michigan Home of the day, and the Federation department of Home Economics 
Economics As- was represented by Mrs. H. G. Thornton. Luncheon was 
sociation. served at noon in the Women's Building, giving opportunity 

for a social hour. At the regular meeting in the afternoon an 
address on Beauty in Common Things was given by Miss Mar>' S. Snow, super- 
visor of household arts in the Chicago public schools. The efl5ciency of the ofl5cers 
was recognized by their unanimous reelection for the coming year. Miss Grace 
E. Fuller of the Ypsilanti State Normal College is president and Miss Lenna F. 
Cooper, of the Battle Creek Sanitarium, is secretary-treasurer. 

The Home Economics Association of Scranton, Pa., held a reception in July 
for the students of Home Economics in Scranton for the summer and for the play- 
ground workers. Miss Gwendolyn Stewart, president of the 
Scranton Home Association, made the address, in which she pointed out the 
Economics As- close relationship existing between the home and the play- 
sociatlon. ground. Realizing this relation, the Scranton Home Eco- 

nomics Association, during the past siunmer, has held classes 
in cooking for girls between eleven and fourteen years of age. In this work the 
Association has had the help of the Y. W. C. A. and of the Playground Association. 
Miss Adele Grant, a recent graduate of the Boston Y. W. C. A. School of Domes- 
tic Science, taught the classes. 

During the past summer this school gave courses in home cookery, advanced 

cookery, food and dietetics, and domestic art, and Miss Anna Barrows of Teachers 

m. o u 1 r College, New York City, gave demonstrations in cookerj*. The 

The School of , ,^ ' , , , , „ ^. ,r- x/ 

-^ laculty of the school was as follows: Director, Miss Barrows; 

c . f J.. Assistants, domestic science. Miss EfSe J. Race, of the faculty 

p, of the School of the Deaf, Jacksonville, 111.; Miss Lilla P. Frich, 

_ o u 1 Minneapolis, Minn.; jMiss Susannah H. Usher, of the Univer- 

Simuner Schools. . , ... 

sity of Illinois; Miss Clara M. Parker, Iowa State College, 

and Miss Alice M. Thomas, of the Pittsburgh Public Schools; Domestic arts, 

Miss Laura M. Duntz, of the dressmaking department of Mechanics Institute, 

Rochester, N. Y., and Miss Gertrude Duntz, domestic art director, Buffalo, N. Y. 



402 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

A Bureau of Household Research was opened in Philadelphia, September i, 
under the auspices of John B. Leeds, M.A., professor of household economics at 

Temple University. 
Bureau of The purpose of the bureau is to secure recognition for house- 

Household Re- work as a distinct and worthy profession. The attempt will 
search. be made both to assist housekeepers to plan and carry on sys- 

tematically the work of the household and to aid young women 
who wish to work their way through college. Housekeepers who register with 
the bureau will take a course at Temple University in Household Economics and 
will be entitled to the services of the bureau both in the way of advice and sug- 
gestion regarding their household problems and in securing the assistance of stu- 
dent workers. Students who register with the bureau will give one-half of their 
time daily to study and recitation at Temple University and the other half to 
housework. Housekeepers may have one student assisting one day in the week 
up to four students every day. Students will be given an opportunity either to 
work in all lines of general housework or to specialize in cooking, sewing, laundry, 
nursing, care of children, etc. Work will be paid for by the hour according to the 
proficiency of the student worker. 

Students must be graduates of a high school or have done equivalent work in 
order to register with the bureau. Those taking courses in kindergarten and 
primar>^ school education at Temple may register with the bureau for practice in 
the care of children. 

Students will live at their own homes or at a club-house adjacent. All arrange- 
ments between housekeepers and student houseworkers will be made by the 
secretary of the bureau, 1831 North Broad Street, Philadelphia. Arrangements 
are also being made for students who wish to work in institutions, apartment 
houses, hotels, etc. 

Careful records are to be kept as data of value in scientific researches by the 
bureau in the standardization of household work. 

Mechanics Institute of Rochester, N. Y., held its first summer session from 
June 24 to August 16. Courses in manual training, domestic science, applied 

art, domestic art, pedagogy, and academic branches were offered. 
Mechanics In- In domestic science elementary, intermediate, and advanced, 
stitute Sum- and general cookery, under Miss Bessie Gillard, Miss Eliza- 
mer Session. beth C. Van Home, and Miss May Gillard were given. Classes 

in elementary and trade dressmaking, elementary, advanced, 
and trade millinery, elementary and advanced sewing, and shirtwaist making 
were given in the domestic art department by Miss Theresa Coleman. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

Vol. IV NOVEMBER, 191 2 Xo. 5 

EDITOR— A[rs. Mary H. Abel, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 
MANAGING EDITOR— Miss Marguerite B. Lake, Forest Hill, Md. 

f Dr. B. R. Andrews, Teachers College, New York City. 

EDITORIAL BOARD- \ ^^- .^ ^- {v^^T'-^^'^^'l^^A ^- department of Agri- 
I culture, \\ashmgton, I). C. 

[ Miss Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institutc,Brooklyn,N.Y. 
COLLABORATORS— The Officers and Members of the Council. 

.ADVERTISING — Mrs. Claudia Q. Murphy, Magazine and Book Companj'. 
1 261 Broadway; Telephone: Madison Square-2iS8, New York City. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

December 1912 

Losses in the cooking of vegetables, Josephine T. Berry 405 

A rational method in the practice ticld for students in dietary administration, 

Florence R. Corbett 413 

The diet kitchen, Mabel C. Little 421 

The housekeeper dietitian in the hospital field, Marj^ .\. Lindsley 425 

The cooperation of dietitian and phj-sician. E. Grace McCuUough 428 

The relation of household administration to public utilities, Martha Bensley 

Bruere 433 

Scientific management in the household, Frank B. Gilbreth 438 

Report of the committee on uniform accounting for institutions 448 

Waste accounting systems and basic dietary ration tables, Chas. S. Pitcher. 460 

Better dress standards, Mrs. John C. Hessler 469 

General development and present status of the school feeding movement. 

Louise Stevens Bryant 472 

The rural school warm lunch, Man,- L. Bull 477 

Report of the New York school lunch committee 482 

Elementary school lunches under school department direction, Buffalo, N. Y. 

Mary E. L. Small 490 

Editorials 493 

Home Economics Day 494 

Annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association 498 

Bibliography of Home Economics Literature 499 

News from the field 503 

Books and literature 510 

Inde.x to volume iv 515 



THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 

Vol. IV. DECEMBER, 191 2 No. 5 

LOSSES IN THE COOKING OF VEGETABLES.^ 
Josephine Thorndike Berry. 

For some years persons interested in the cost and nutritive value 
of foods have laid emphasis upon the question of the loss occurring 
in cooking vegetables, as one of importance in household economy 
and requiring investigation. It has been a subject of still further 
significance to teachers of Home Economics who were striving to 
acquire an understanding of the scientific facts and principles underly- 
ing cooking processes, in the faith that with such understanding the 
subject may be taught as an applied science. 

In 1897 the Office of Experiment Stations published Bulletin No. 
42 containing a report of analyses made to determine losses in boiling 
vegetables — those chosen for the investigation being potatoes, carrots, 
and cabbage. The conclusions drawn from the results of the work 
emphasized the loss of nutrients from paring potatoes, and from soak 
ing them in water before cooking; likewise from the usual prac- 
tice of rejecting the water in which the root and green vegeta 
had been cooked, since such extracts contain a considerable porti 
of the soUds of the fresh substance. 

The bulletin had a wide-spread influence. It brought about a 
pretty general recognition of this source of waste, and an effort on 
the part of teachers to diminish it. In it the case of the Irish potato 
had been made clear. The losses were negligible when potatoes, 
without the skins removed, were plunged into boiling water, and cooked 
rapidly. The results for cabbage and carrots were not as conclusive. 

* Submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of Master 
of Arts in the Faculty of Philosophy, Columbia University. 

405 



rac^^ 
tioiiV^. 



4o6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

In all methods used, the losses were considerable, averaging 25 per 
cent of all nutrients for carrots, and 30 per cent to 40 per cent of all 
dry matter in cabbage. Advantage of one method over another was 
slight. On the whole, however, it seemed wise to teachers to recom- 
mend cooking in as little water as possible; and conservation of the 
nutrients lost in solution by using the liquid from the cooking, in the 
making of sauces to be served over the vegetable, or in soup. Such 
a recommendation was often difficult to use in practice. Many per- 
sons have no liking for sauces on vegetables and the soup kettle is 
not always an available means of using such extracts. Recognizing 
these difficulties, some teachers have assumed the application of the 
Irish potato method to many of the root vegetables, believing that 
cooking "in the jackets" would preserve their nutrients, sugars and 
mineral materials, from solution in the water. A few have urged 
the cooking of some of the green vegetables — spinach, and so-called 
greens — without water in their own juices and which are quite quickly 
extracted. 

Throughout the report just cited, chief stress is laid upon losses 
in nitrogen and carbohydrate. The importance of such losses is 
measured by the ratio of their money value to the family income. 
Similarly, teachers generally have seen the question as one of pre- 
ventable waste, having an economic significance in proportion to 
the element of waste. The theory was parallel with the explanation 
of nutrition in terms of protein and energy metabolism. Our present 
understanding includes also the mineral metabolism. 

The need of the body for mineral substance has long been recognized 
and affirmed in general statements. But further than the skeletal 
requirements for calcium, and the office of haemoglobin in the oxida- 
tive processes, their functions in nutrition has been little emphasized. 
Recent work, however, leads strongly to the beHef that a balance 
for mineral foods is as essential to physical well-being as it is for nitro- 
gen or energy. It is known that in some way contractility and irri- 
tability of muscle tissue are dependent upon certain inorganic salts; 
that the rhythmical beating of the heart is controlled by calcium, 
sodium, and possibly potassium present in the blood and tissues; that 
retention of sulphur and phosphorus within the body runs parallel 
to retention of protein; that the regulation of the alkalinity of the 
blood is accomplished, in part at least, through the phosphates; that 
the blood and other body fluids must be kept alkaline through a bal- 
ance between acid and base decomposition products in metabolism. 



1912] Losses in the Cooking of Vegetables 407 

It is conjectured that the complicated chemical reactions of the pro- 
tein metabolism are made possible and, indeed, controlled by the 
electrolytes. 

Vegetables are plentiful sources of mineral foods. They furnish 
iron in much larger proportion than do most animal foods. They 
are our chief dependence for potassium and sodium salts of organic 
acids. In the processes of metabolism these acids are oxidized. The 
bases become available for neutralization of the phosphoric and sul- 
phuric acids resulting from the breaking down of protein ; thus helping 
to maintain the alkalinity of the body tissues and fluids. It is clear 
that the establishment of these facts adds to the value formerly 
attributed to vegetables as food, increases especially the significance 
of green vegetables in the dietary; and emphasizes the wisdom of 
conserving their mineral constituents. 

This bit of investigation was undertaken, therefore, in the hope of 
obtaining some analyses whereby the relative losses from the methods 
of cooking commonly employed might be compared. It was hoped 
that the results, though too few from which to generalize broadly, 
would, nevertheless, point to the method of least waste; and thus 
contribute somewhat toward the teaching of cooking as applied 
science. 

The method most commonly employed in cooking vegetables is boil- 
ing in water, rejecting the water. A few people steam certain green 
vegetables. It seemed reasonable to assume that of these two methods 
steaming offered the probability of a smaller loss of soluble sub- 
stances. That, however, was an assumption to be tested. Spinach 
and cabbage were selected as the most generally used of the green 
vegetables, the type knowTi to lose most through boiling in water. 
Both were prepared and cooked as though for serving, except that 
seasonings were not added. 

The spinach was washed carefully many times, discarding all por- 
tions which appeared damaged This occasioned a loss of one-third 
the purchased weight, though largely of sand and soil. After drying 
to remove adhering drops of water and thorough mixing to insure 
uniform samples, it was dix-ided into three portions — No. i was reserv^ed 
for analysis of the fresh substance ; No 2 was steamed over a kettle 
of boiling water; No. 3 was boiled in as little water as was deemed 
possible without replenishing. The time required for steaming and 
boiling was the same. Judged by appearance, the bulk of spinach 
left from the steaming was half greater than of that which had been 



4o8 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

boiled. The three portions were then spread on enameled-ware 
trays and dried in the ovens of the gas ranges at a temperature not 
above ioo°C. The resulting air dry material was weighed, ground in 
a cofifee mill, and bottled ready for analysis. 

The method of preparing and cooking the cabbage was the same, 
except for the repeated washings. The outer bruised and discolored 
leaves and the heart were rejected. The waste amounted to one-sixth 
the weight as purchased. To insure representative samples, three 
heads of cabbage were cut into thirds, one-third being distributed 
to each of the portions, of which one was dried uncooked; one after 
steaming; one after boiling in water. The time required for steaming 
was about one-third longer than for boiling, and there was no notice- 
able difference in bulk between the two methods. 

With carrots, the analysis of the bulletin before cited showed in- 
creasing loss according to the proportion of cut surface. The plan 
followed here was to compare the results of the usual and the least 
amount of such surface. The carrots as purchased were divided into 
three lots, as nearly uniform as could be judged by size and weight. 
Those of lot No. i were scraped, put through a meat-grinder and dried; 
of lot No. 2 were washed and plunged whole into boiling water; of No. 
3 were scraped, cut into pieces of a size attractive for serving (approx- 
imately |x|x^ inch), and likewise nearly covered with boiling water. 
As might be expected, the carrots boiled whole were somewhat longer 
in softening than were those pre\dously cut into small pieces. Both 
portions were crushed, dried in the gas ovens, ground, weighed, and 
put into bottles. 

Calculations of total solids and moisture content were made from 
samples of the above air dry substances, after further drying (to 
constant weight) at ioo°C. The weight of ash from samples designed 
for other determinations afforded data for the total ash content. 
Determinations of phosphorus, calcium and magnesium were made 
as follows: 



igi2\ 



Losses in the Cooking of Vegetables 



409 



TABLE I. 
Losses in cooking vegetables. Percentage of fresh edible portion. 



KINDS OF VEGETABLES. 



PjO« 



CaO. 



MgO. 



Spinach (boiled) 


31-59 
0.18 


Per Cent. 

51-65 
9-34 


Per Cent. 

52.33 
S-23 


Per Cent. 
6.89(?) 
8.69 


Per Cent. 
60.38 
7.85' 


Spinach (steamed) 




Difference 


31-41 


42.31 


47.10 


+ i-8o(?) 


52.53 


Cabbage (boiled) 


32 -86 
2.54 


42.62 
11.47 


33-93 
1-79 


27.66 
9-31 


26.71 
4- 23 


Cabbage (steamed) 




Difference 


30-32 


31-15 


32.14 


18.35 


22.48 




Carrots (cut up and boiled).. 
Carrots (boiled whole) 


10.05 
6.28 


11.48 
7.38 


22.88 
17.97 


10.88 
8.77 


19.19 
19.19 


Difference 


3-77 


4.10 


4.91 


2. II 


0.00 



TABLE II. 
Losses in cooking vegetables. Percentage of solids. 



KINDS OF VEGETABLES. 



PjOs. 



CaO. 



MgO. 



Per Cent. 

Spinach (boiled) 29 . oS 

Spinach (steamed) 9. 21 

Cabbage (boiled) ... 1 2 . 39 

Cabbage (steamed) 9.18 

Carrots (cut up and boiled) 6.91 

Carrots (boiled whole) I 4 . 90 



Per Cent. 
30.01 

5-33 

+0.32 

+0.63 

13.84 

12.46 



Per Cent. 
+36.00 
8.58 
+ 10.01 

5-91 
0.05 
2.61 



Per Cent. 
42.11 

7-73 

+ 11.83 

1.62 

8.01 

14.42 



A first glance at Table I reveals the relatively small losses from 
steaming and the great losses from boiling cabbage and spinach. 
Losses in ash constituents as against total solids are given added sig- 
nificance by the fact that much of the solid substance is cellulose and 
material not digested. The losses from boiling spinach are around 
50 per cent, except in the case of calciimi, where there is doubt of 
the figures due to a knoTVTi source of error in the analysis. The losses 
for cabbage though lower, are, nevertheless, large — something more 
than 30 per cent. And though the losses for carrots are still less, 
they are of significance, averaging somewhat more than 15 per cent. 

These figures are borne out by the report of a French investigation^ 
in which cabbage, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, celery, asparagus, 
com, beans, and lentils were boiled thirty minutes. The average of 
losses was 36 per cent for total mineral matter, and 50 per cent for 



* Experiment Station Record, vol. 22, no. 4, p. 368. 



41 o The Journal of Home Economics [December 

potassium. Similarly large losses of total salt, and an even higher 
percentage loss of potassium (72 per cent), were foimd from the long 
cooking of several cereals, dried beans, and peas. 

A comparison of the figures in Table I shows a much lower and 
a relatively insignificant loss from steaming the green vegetables 
used. The superiority of the method which effects a saving of more 
than 40 per cent of the ash for spinach and 25 per cent for cabbage 
hardly seems open to question. 

With carrots, although there is a distinct saving from boiling whole, 
without removing the skins, the gain is less than was expected — only 
about 3 per cent. The analyses of Irish potatoes referred to before 
showed a gain of 15 per cent from boiling "in the jackets." There 
is, however, an economy of substance and of time not appearing from 
the analysis. The waste involved in scraping the fresh carrots was 
20 per cent; that in peeling after boiling 10 per cent of the weight 
as purchased. Further, the process of removing the skins after cooking 
is easier as well as shorter than scraping beforehand. 

It should be noted here that the analyses for sugar loss from carrots 
were made including steaming as a method of cooking. The results 
obtained indicate that steaming should have been included in this 
comparison. Judging from the sugar losses, it should be as effective 
a method for economy of salts as with spinach or cabbage. 

The calculations of the losses as percentage of solids, shown in 
Table II permits a comparison of the methods of cooking according 
to the food substance served, aside from its value according to the 
amount of fresh substance cooked. It will be noticed that each group 
shows a larger loss of total salts from boiling. The plus signs indicate 
an apparent gain instead of loss, as compared with the analyses of 
solids from the raw material. In each case there is a saving of phos- 
phorus, by steaming, as with carrots, boiling whole. The apparent 
disagreement between the figures showing gains and the loss in total 
salts, may be explained by the greater loss of potash salts. Such an 
explanation finds support in the enormous losses of potassium reported 
by the French investigation. 

Judged from the analyses already given, the contribution of carrots 
to the mineral metabolism is important. In common with other 
similar root vegetables, they are also a source of carbohydrate in the 
diet. According to Farmers' Bulletin No. 295:^ "Sugar is an impor- 
tant constituent, 1 2 per cent being sometimes present, though perhaps, 
5 per cent or 6 per cent would more nearly represent the average." 

3 Extract from Farmers' Bulletin No. 295, p. 37. 



19 1 2] Losses in the Cooking of Vegetables 411 

A judgment, therefore, as to the method of least waste in cooking 
carrots must take into account not only losses of salts but of carbo- 
hydrate. 

Analyses to determine the losses of soluble carbohydrates were made 
from the water employed in the cooking processes. To those already 
used, steaming was added. 

Steaming showed a loss of 0.48 grams soluble carbohydrate per ■* 
100 grams carrot, or about 6 per cent of the amount found in the 
raw substance. Boiling whole showed a loss of 1.44 grams or 17 per 
cent. Boiling after cutting up showed a loss of 2.18 grams or 26 per 
cent. 

Confirmation of these figures to a considerable degree is offered 
in a European investigation, wherein it was found that when carrots 
were steamed they became soft a little more quickly than when cooked 
in hot water; and lost considerably less material. The water over 
which they were steamed contained 0.69 per cent of the total material, 
as compared with 3.75 per cent in the case of the water in which they 
were boiled. 

The results of this investigation emphasize throughout the large 
percentages of mineral constitutents extracted by boiling spinach, 
cabbage, and carrots in water; likewise a considerable proportion of 
soluble carbohydrate extracted from carrots. The green vegetables 
lost most heavily. Spinach gave up more than 50 per cent, and cab- 
bage more than 40 per cent of all salt present in the fresh substance; 
while the carrots which were cut up before boiling lost 11^ per cent 
of total salts, and 23 per cent of phosphorus in addition to 26 per cent 
of total soluble carbohydrate. 

These figures find essential corroboration in the general averages 
for similar losses reported in the investigations already referred to; 
which also justify the applications of deductions from them to many 
other vegetables of the same types. 

All the work points clearly to the conclusion that such losses are 
too great to be disregarded whether they be estimated as loss of money 
or of food nutrients. That, in turn, emphasizes the importance of 
utilizing the material extracted; or for employing a method of cooking 
by which it is more largely retained. 

In these trials, the losses from steaming averaged about 10 per cent » 
for spinach and cabbage — a saving as compared with boiling of 40 per 
cent and 30 per cent respectively, while boiling carrots whole without 
removing the skins saved about 4 per cent of the losses resulting from 
cutting up before boiling. It is to be regretted that this investigation 



412 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

afifords no data as to the mineral loss from steaming carrots, since 
the small loss of soluble carbohydrate resulting from the use of that 
method suggests the probability of a similarly small loss for other 
soluble constituents. The water over which the carrots were steamed 
contained only 6 per cent of the soluble carbohydrate present of the 
soluble substance — a saving of 1 1 per cent over the method of boiling 
carrots whole; and of 20 per cent over the usual method of cutting 
into small pieces before boiling. These results are confirmed by other 
analyses only in the matter of soluble carbohydrate loss from carrots. 
They show, however, positive gains in all instances. The losses of 
mineral substance from the green vegetables, and of sugars from 
carrots through steaming, were relatively small, and the advantage 
over boiling in water correspondingly large. Cooking carrots whole 
•effected an economy of 4 per cent of the salt; which must be considered 
as still further increased by a saving of 10 per cent of the fresh sub- 
stance due to decreased waste from removing the skins after boiling. 
Even to this there is still to be added an economy in time and effort 
through peeling after cooking. 

These trials, therefore, warrant the suggestions that wherever the 
materials extracted by boiling vegetables cannot be acceptably util- 
ized, a very large proportion of the loss of mineral salts from green 
vegetables and of soluble carbohydrate from roots may be prevented 
by cooking in steam. It seems probable that steaming root vegetables 
will protect from loss of mineral substances in like degree. It is 
proved, to the extent of these observations, that cooking carrots whole 
decreased the losses of both mineral salts and sugar in a sufficient 
measure to justify the use of this method of cooking rather than of 
the one more commonly employed. 

References for Analytical Work. 

Sherman: Methods of Organic Anal3'-sis. 
Alsen: Quantitative Chemical Analysis. 
, Lincoln and Walton: Elementary Quantitative Agricultural Analysis. 

Reports of Investigations. 

U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations: 

Bulletin No. 42, Losses in Boiling Vegetables. 

Experiment Station Record, vol. 22, no. 4, p. 368. Abstract from Maurel 
and Corcassagne: Blanching Vegetables. Maurel and Corcassagne: 
Loss of Salt when Cereals and Vegetables are Boiled in Water 

Bulletin No. 28, Chemical Composition of American Food Materials. 

U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 295, p. 37. 



A RATIONAL METHOD IN THE PRACTICE FIELD FOR 
STUDENTS IN DIETARY ADMINISTRATION.^ 

Florence R. Corbett. 

"Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaketh," and some- 
times the fullness of knowledge of existing conditions and the vision 
of what these conditions might be, are an incentive to speech. From a 
ten years' e.xperience and observation of fitting household arts students 
into practice fields in dietary administration, certain theories which 
are herein presented in the form of an outline have cr}'stalHzed into 
a definite conception of methods which will bring results superior to 
those now obtained. 

Until recently it has been relatively difficult to obtain an opportu- 
nity for work in any practice field whatsoever for the newly graduated 
household arts student, so that almost any such opportunity was 
prized regardless of what the ideal practice field, had it existed, might 
have afforded. In fact the ideal practice field seems not to have ex- 
isted even in imagination. The students were translated to gain their 
experience from the class room and laboratory', where the largest 
quantities handled were seldom more than those for the average pri- 
vate household, to the hospital household numbering from 500 to 1000 
persons, where the quantities were so large that the former methods 
of handling did not apply and many of the smaller recipes refused 
to work. The adjustment of the student dietitian to this strange 
en\aronment sometimes involved the entire institution in a tempo- 
rary giddiness. That many such students obtained something of 
value from the experience and developed into efficient dietitians is 
as much to the credit of the native quaUties of the student as to the 
nature and opportunities of the practice field. 

Again, students asked permission to work for experience in res- 
taurants and lunch rooms. After trial in some of the large, more 
complex, and highly organized of these, the students were pronounced 
entirely impractical, and permission for further experience was with- 

^ Read by title at the .\dministration Section of the American Home Economics 
Association, Lake Placid, N. Y., June, 1912. 

413 



414 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

drawn. Various charges were made as to the inefficiency of domestic 
science and household arts graduates. After a time the training 
schools reached the conclusion that the pursuit of the existing courses 
did not entirely fit the student for administrative work, and that what 
was called "inefficiency" in the practice field was really lack of prepa- 
ration. Thereupon courses bearing directly on the problems of admin- 
istrative work were introduced for those preparing for institutional 
work. 

With the recognition of the claim on the curriculum made by the 
institution, came the recognition of the need of a practice field where 
the student might gain first hand knowledge of the problems of insti- 
tutional work without assuming unwarranted responsibility for their 
handling. In the larger schools the first thought has been to make 
use of the opportunities nearest at hand — the school residence dining 
hall, the school lunch room, or both — first as a means of demonstra- 
tion, and second as an opportunity for the student to gain actual expe- 
rience. We hear from one place and another that this work has been 
"successful," that "students are doing the actual work" in such and 
such places. Upon investigation it appears that a student taking 
any active part in the lunch room or dining room is regarded as the 
"successful" feature. Whether the student's experience there has 
clarified her ideas, defined and strengthened her method, formed her 
judgment in the management of food choice, purchase, preparation 
and service; whether the material gain to her in power is worth in 
dollars and cents what she has put into it of time, energy, and tuition 
fees; whether the department in which she has obtained this expe- 
rience has been able to maintain an efficiency standard while side- 
tracking its administrative force into teaching lines; whether under 
such circumstances it was even possible for the student to learn good 
methods, to say nothing of the best; indeed whether the student was 
prepared even to observe correctly — are questions not considered as 
factors in the "success" of the plan. 

Indeed, judged by these last standards very little of this work has 
been more than partially successful. In various professions and lines 
of business where " experience" under direction is a part of the required 
preparation for independent work, the student is admitted only to 
the departments or divisions where his experience will be economically 
"successful." He must be able to render service worth at least as 
much to the concern as the time required by the head of the depart- 
ment to supervise and instruct him. The firm would lose by any 



1912] Practice Fields for Student Dietitians 415 

less business-like arrangement, and the student would lose by an 
experience gained in a scheme not wholly business-like and therefore 
not fitting him for advancement. 

This is the point apparently lost to \dew in the present methods 
of giving practical experience in dietary administration to our house- 
hold arts students. No practice can be thoroughly advantageous to 
a student if obtained under conditions which are not economical, not 
practical, not approximate to what she will find in the field of work 
to which she aspires. Her method of work will be of doubtful value 
if acquired in an organization run at a financial loss in order to give 
her "experience," and in which the entire scheme of management is 
adapted to student capacity. On the other hand the experience that 
will count for efiiciency will be that in which the student has marched 
lock-step with other employees in the eflScient and purely commercial 
field; where she has been the equivalent of one whole employee; where 
she has carried the work of one "station," and not where from two to 
five students are required to do the work of one employee. Cases are 
not unknown where, in spite of the students' work abolishing the 
necessity of a pay-roll, the school has had to meet a deficit in the 
department for the sake of student experience. It is hardly reason- 
able to expect that a student experienced in such methods as these 
should cope otherwise than unsuccessfully after her graduation with 
the situation confronting her as manager of a dining room or lunch 
room. 

It may be asked: "How is a student direct from the class room, to 
perform the work of a trained and experienced employee and escape 
the demoralizing experience of representing one-half or one-third of 
an employee?" The reply is first of all to avoid the present method 
of leaping from the class room to the highly complex system of food 
administration of the large hospital, the large restaurant, and large 
school dining hall. For the solution of our difiiculty we must recall 
the prototj-pe of the practice method and also fall back upon an edu- 
cational principle, both of which have been submerged of late in mis- 
directed efforts toward opening practical work. 

The prototype of the present practice field was the apprentice field 
of older days and combined several excellent features which could be 
followed with advantage in our present system. First, the field was 
not too large nor too complex for the comprehension of the appren- 
tice; second, the work did not involve the leap from the known to 
the absolutely unknown with no experience to guide; third, the period 



41 6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

of training was made sufficiently long to insure the skill which comes 
only from the repetition of a process; fourth, the period of training 
was sufficiently long to insure reimbursement of the master through 
the acquired skill of the apprentice; and fifth, the privilege of prac- 
ticing the trade depended upon the efficiency thus acquired. These 
features made apprenticeship favorable alike to the apprentice, to 
the master, and to the public. And furthermore the plan demon- 
strates the application of the educational principle referred to, that 
of progress from the known to the unknown by successive steps. 

Having gotten away from this last principle, by ignoring the law 
of association, in transplanting our students directly from the class 
room to the highly organized field which bears little relation to any 
of their past experiences, we are confronted by the necessity of mak- 
ing good to the student the knowledge which should have intervened 
and should have come through experience. To do this the practice 
student must be tutored and coached constantly, in fact, be told what 
she is seeing (for otherwise she may not see what she has before her) ; 
she must be pushed and pulled through all the mental processes that 
should develop naturally with experience. Carried to its logical con- 
clusion this course of action would necessitate a tutor at the elbow 
of the student the entire time. Granting the absurdity of the con- 
ception, even if this be done, the results are obtained at a cost out 
of all proportion to what the average student gains from such a 
course. It is well to remember that it is the average student who 
must be considered in these plans, for the exceptional student will, 
as she always has, make the most of her opportunities. It is, however, 
too much to expect a profession to consist exclusively of exceptional 
people. 

If now we reform our conception of the practice field, using the 
skeleton afforded by the best of the mediaeval apprentice method and 
letting its growth and power come from natural development accord- 
ing to the law of association, we then have an efficient system of so 
complete and natural a plan as to be almost self-operating — the graded 
system of practice fields. Three distinct general grades are easily 
recognizable as essential to complete experience in dietary administra- 
tion, and within these there may be further subdivisions and grading 
of work according to the maturity of the pupil and the number of 
pupils to be handled at one time. The first grade naturally consists 
of the first step beyond the class room and laboratory experience under 
teaching supervision. 



1912] Practice Fields for Student Dietitians 417 

In the class room or laboratory the student has learned the prin- 
ciples underlying all groups of processes in the selection, preparation, 
and ser\"ice of food to groups varying from the size of the average 
household to such larger groups as the school kitchen laboratories 
can serve, generally not over fifty. Each student has had probably 
one practice lesson in each station, as vegetable cook, as meat cook, 
as dessert cook, as waitress, as kitchen assistant, as pantry assistant, 
etc. She has had instruction in marketing, has visited markets, has 
done a little marketing for classes, has had some drill in estimating 
quantities used as a basis for placing large orders. But four essen- 
tially important features in preparation for independent work are 
necessarily omitted in the class room and must be provided at this 
juncture: first, the opportunity for correlating all the processes pre- 
viously practiced, including accounting, for the sake of the managerial 
concept of responsibility and organization; second, the opportunity 
for repetition of processes until skill results; third, practice in handling 
quantities of foods many times as large as class room experiences 
could permit, developing a new set of methods and proportions applic- 
able only to large quantities; fourth, the opportunity to adapt and 
apply the increased knowledge to meet requirements in some specific 
field as the hospital, or the commercial lunch room or school dining- 
hall. 

It should be axiomatic that if the practice student is to gain much 
from experience in any or all of these processes, she must be able to 
work sympathetically in whatever field she fijids her opportunity and 
to this end experience in the first of the four essential features sup- 
plies a valuable foundation for those that follow. Logically, the first 
grade of practice field work is found in the very small institution where 
the quantities to be handled do not exceed those in the past experience 
of the student, where in fact the detail of all processes required will 
come well within her comprehension, but where she will have the 
responsibility of planning and correlating all the work, and of bringing 
all processes to the conclusion required by imposed standards, such 
as obtaining satisfactory meals for a given group for a prescribed sum, 
or making all expenses and 6 per cent profit. This sort of experience 
is properly found in a small tea-room managed in connection with 
the school dining-hall, or the small hospital of not more than fifty 
beds. The special diet kitchen of the large hospital also gives oppor- 
tunity for this work. In such places the newly graduated household 
arts student could be really useful and find the work within her com- 



41 8 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

prehension, and her mind free to study the development of the work, 
not paralyzed by its magnitude as happens in the large field attempted 
at this stage. 

Two months of such work will sufiice to demonstrate whether the 
student possesses any managerial ability, whether her field for future 
work will best be limited in scope to work of the first grade, or whether 
her capacity justifies the pursuit of advanced and extended opportu- 
nities. On these lines should the decision be made to afford the student 
an opportunity for work in the second grade. 

A perception of the responsibihties of the manager, the necessity 
for organization, discipline, and watchfulness of detail, being obtained 
in the first grade, the student is in a position to gain most from the 
opportunity to "fit into" a larger field, where she may work side by 
side with the meat cook, pastry cook, baker, waitresses, and other 
employees, first, as assistant, then gradually assuming full responsi- 
bility in succeeding roles as repetition of processes gives her the requi- 
site skill and judgment. The length of time spent in this, the second 
grade, must depend upon three things: first, previous experience 
which may shorten any of the apprenticeships; second, the aptitude 
of the student; and third, the purpose of her training. It is conceiv- 
able that the time might vary from three months to three years accord- 
ing to the variations in conditions. 

The work of this, the second grade should be done in an institution 
numbering not less than three hundred residents. The school lunch 
room and college residence hall furnish excellent fields. The point 
to be emphasized is that the student's work must stand the commer- 
cial test; that she must be able to turn out work of the same grade 
as the regular employee; and that she be not advanced until she has 
met absolutely all the requirements of each station. In meeting 
this test she has finally covered the four fundamental essential fea- 
tures of training which the class room cannot afford, emphasizing the 
one involving the repetition of processes which the superficial student 
finds tiresome and does not recognize as valuable. Thus in this grade 
it is possible to weed out those whose sincerity of purpose, courage 
and perseverance do not justify the opportunity for advancement to 
the third grade, nor the faith that they will ultimately qualify as 
thoroughly capable, competent food administrators. 

In the third grade the student steps into the relation of assistant 
to the manager of a large field such as the hospital dietary department 
or the college dining hall. There under direction she has opportu- 



1912] Practice Fields for Student Dietitians 419 

nities for practice and observation in selecting and buying food and 
other supplies, for planning the menus and the work for employees, 
for demonstrating her skill in achieving results and her judgment in 
adapting her work to conditions. At this step she may be worth a 
small salary or her maintenance, if not at first possibly after a month 
or two of such experience. This grade should not occupy less than 
three months in one institution and might profitably be extended to 
a full year divided among two or three institutions of different types 
or under widely different conditions. Such experience would furnish 
the best possible preparation for independent work. 

This practice course, which adds at least a year to the period of 
preparation for the field of dietary administration, affords advantages 
to the training school, to the student, to the professional dietitian, 
to the institutional management employing a dietitian, and to the 
public served by such institutions. The advantage to the school which 
is preparing the student will be three- fold: the cost of supervision of 
the practice work is reduced to a minimum as the responsibilities 
fall naturally upon the administrative heads of the practice fields; 
the weeding out of ineffectual material, as the students qualify for 
advancement from grade to grade, insures the direction of teaching 
energy into profitable channels and does not hold out to the student 
the false hope of ultimate success where there can be no success; and 
not the least of the advantage to the school is the result that its grad- 
uates will be known for thorough and excellent work. To the student 
untried by experience and hoping to be truly valuable in her new field 
of work, it gives justifiable courage and confidence to know that she 
will not be advised to undertake a task beyond her capacity, and that 
she will be prepared to lift and carry a burden and will not impose 
an added one in whatever place she is called upon to serve. Once 
launched in the work as a professional dietitian, she will realize power 
in her work and "success" in the ease with which she carries respon- 
sibility. The greatest possible comfort to the sincere mind will lie 
in the knowledge of the value of her services which are really worth 
what is paid for them. 

All this is of priceless value to the institution management. The 
security in the assurance that the woman who is recommended as 
dietary administrator knows all the details of the work and that round 
pegs will not be called upon to fill square holes, would seem to the 
harassed superintendent the dawn of a wonderful era. Of late the 
institution has been threatened with the swinging of the pendulum 



420 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

in the other direction, the one extreme having been the danger of 
exploiting the services of the apprenticed nurse, the other now being 
the danger of exploiting and disorganizing the institution for the 
sake of giving experience to inadequately prepared student dietitians. 
When the practice work of the student dietitian or food administrator 
is graded as the practice work of the student nurse now is, the pre- 
judice against the dietitian which now exists in some quarters will 
disappear, and the deserved confidence of the institution and the 
public be won. 

A "closed system" which would ultimately destroy itself is not 
advocated. In the above, principles rather than system have been 
emphasized and the plan herein outlined is an example of the princi- 
ples in action. The plan itself is capable of endless adaptation and 
development according to varying conditions and should be used 
only in accordance with the principles presented. 

Adding a year to the period of preparation for professional work is 
a course of action never greeted with enthusiasm by the candidates 
for certificates of proficiency, but wisely conducted the final result 
of such a course is to raise the professional standing of those who have 
completed the additional year. In this case the fact that students 
pursuing the additional work herein outlined are in a position to earn 
a large part, if not all, of their expenses during the year, should serve 
as an incentive for spending the additional time and for achieving 
the higher qualifications. 



THE DIET KITCHEN.' 
Mabel C. Little. 

The modern diet kitchen, an important part of every well planned 
and well organized hospital, has reached its present degree of efficiency 
gradually. The need for such a kitchen was first recognized by some 
leaders in the profession of nursing, and their suggestions have been 
successfully carried out by graduates of schools of domestic science 
and household administration. 

The purpose of the diet kitchen is two-fold — educational and prac- 
tical, furnishing as it does an important part of the education of the 
nurse, and at the same time materially aiding the hospital and physi- 
cian in caring for the needs of the patients. On account of the grow- 
ing importance of the study of preventive medicine and diet, and the 
increasing number of diseases in which carefully planned dietaries 
are substituted for medicine, the careful supervision of the prescribed 
dietaries and instruction in dietetics to the nurses are assuming a 
more important place in the hospital. In many of our hospitals 
the diet kitchen is an afterthought, and consequently occupies the 
only available space, making the best of existing conditions. In others, 
although it was planned for, it was an experiment, there being no 
precedent to follow. 

It seems that today the diet kitchen has passed the experimental 
stage, and that now we should establish standards for the judging 
of diet kitchens so that the builders of institutions may be aided not 
only in avoiding mistakes, but in building kitchens in which the most 
efficient service may be attained. If kitchens are poorly planned the 
hospital will suffer, for even the best employees can not do their 
best work under poor conditions. 

What would be an ideal diet kitchen? The ideal diet kitchen would 
be one in which the nurses receive an excellent practical training, 
fitting them for their professional career, and one in which the food 
for the patients is prepared and served in the best possible way. 

* Read by title at the Administration Section of the .American Home Economics 
Association, Lake Placid, N. Y., June, 191 2. 

421 



422 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

It is the aim to outline, briefly, some suggestions for the solution 
of this problem, applicable to a large institution, but adaptable also 
to smaller ones. Many modern hospitals are built on the pavilion 
plan, or, if in any other style, the floors reserved for private patients 
are usually one above the other, with the kitchens and diet kitchens 
on either the top floor or in the basement, the floors being connected 
by elevators and dumb-waiters. There are advantages and disad- 
vantages to both of these plans. If the kitchen is in the basement 
it is convenient for the delivery of supplies and disposal of garbage, 
but it lacks sunshine and ventilation, and the odors rise through the 
building. A kitchen on the top floor is light and well ventilated, 
there are no odors to disturb the patients, but the arrangements for 
the delivery of supplies and disposal of garbage are not convenient, 
and the noise from the machinery in the kitchens prevents the use 
of the floor below for patients. This might be used for operating 
rooms, sterilizing or gauze rooms, or dormitories for servants. The 
modern fireproof buildings seem to transmit noise and vibrations 
more readily than those of other construction, but no other kind 
is considered for a modern hospital. 

In this paper the general kitchen problems are left out, and the 
feeding of the private patients and the preparation of the extra diets 
for the public wards are the only questions considered. 

The kitchen floor, whether in the basement or top floor, should be 
divided into several rooms: First, a kitchen with range, steam kettle, 
vegetable steamers and tables, where a professional cook, either man 
or woman, will prepare the meats, vegetables, and soups for the private 
patients; second, adjoining the kitchen should be the diet kitchen, 
containing a range, sink, cupboards and utensils; here the nurses will 
prepare the broths, custards, salads, desserts and all special orders 
and special diets; third, a ser\dng room, adjoining the kitchen and 
diet kitchen, fitted out with steam tables, coffee urns, dish warmers, 
tray racks, dish washer, cupboards for dishes, a small refrigerator, 
sinks, broilers and toaster, and drawers for linen and silver; two or 
three dumb-waiters, the number depending upon the size of the 
institution, should connect the serving-room with the floors to be 
served; fourth, a milk room supplied with sterilizers and all necessary 
apparatus, where the feedings for the infants may be prepared with 
aseptic precautions; fifth, a refrigerator room with cold storage com- 
partments for the use of both kitchens, with one compartment reserved 
for the milk; in this room should be an ice crusher and an ice cream 



19 1 2] The Diet Kitchen 423 

freezer with motor; sLxth, a dining-room for the employees; seventh, 
three lavatories, one for the nurses and two for employees. 

The nurse's work in the diet kitchen should be made progressive, 
so that during the time of service here she may learn to do all of the 
different kinds of work, beginning with the simpler things: the making 
of broth, beef balls, beef juice, dressing of squabs, and so on, then the 
salads and desserts. After this she can serve the trays in the serving- 
room, where the chef carves the meat, and the trays ha\ang been set 
up and marked, the cold food salads and butter can be taken from 
the refrigerator, the hot food from the steam table on heated dishes, 
and the tray sent by the dumb-waiter and served at once to the patient. 

Economy of food is one of the greatest advantages of this method 
of serxnng, for every time food is di\ided and put into receptacles, 
a certain amoimt is lost and the food becomes a few degrees colder. 
This method will do away with the eating by servants and nurses 
of food intended for the patients. There will be great sav'ng partic- 
ularly in butter, bread, coffee, and cream, as well as in the cooked 
food, for no matter how carefully the amounts are measured from the 
kitchen there is always some difference in this amount and the amount 
ser\-ed, and it is difficult to have this food always returned to the 
kitchen. If the trays are returned to the kitchen the waste can be 
noted and to a certain extent regulated. The labor of distributing 
supplies through the hospital would be materially lessened, although 
each floor must keep a small supply of milk, broth, eggs, oranges, and 
lemons in a refrigerator for the nourishments. The noise of the 
handling of dishes, if taken from the floor, will add much to the com- 
fort of the patients in the rooms adjoining the ser\-ing pantry. 

The dietitian \\-ill be able to superx-ise the serving of the food and 
be sure that it is served as planned, avoiding the mistakes sometimes 
made. 

In some hospitals the nurses prepare all the food for the private 
patients, but will the trained nurses ever be called on professionally 
to cook roasts for fifty or sLxty people? From the patient's point of 
view can we expect the meat and vegetables to be well cooked when 
the nurses are continually changing, and as many of them have had 
no previous experience in cooking, can we expect them to become 
ex-perts in a few weeks? The dietitian has many other things to 
watch beside the cooking of meat, and knowing that the success in 
cooking meat, our most expensive food, depends largely upon judg- 
ment and experience, is it sensible to entrust this to inexperienced 



424 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

people? The French do not consider a chef competent to cook meat 
until he has served a three or more years' apprenticeship. 

The orders of squabs, broilers, steaks, and chops should be cooked 
by the nurse in the diet kitchen or serving-room. 

The silver required by an up-to-date hospital is expensive, and 
this can receive much better care and is less liable to be lost if it all 
returns to the one serving-room. The method of serving trays from 
a general serving-room has been done for many years in many of the 
Catholic hospitals of the country. 

The room set aside for the preparation of the infant's food should 
be kept as spotless as an operating room, with everything in the room 
cleanable. Here, the technique of the operating room should be 
observed: one nurse in sterile cap and gown, hands scrubbed with an 
antiseptic solution, with sterile sheets covering the tables and using 
nothing but sterile utensils and bottles for mixing the feedings. An- 
other nurse in cap and gown should assist by pouring the milk from 
the cans and bottles. This work should be most carefully superin- 
tended by the dietitian, that no slips occur in the technique or errors 
in the formulae. 

The planning of the menus for the private patients is one of the 
dietitian's duties. These will vary with the season, location, and 
general policy of the hospital. 

The lectures to the nurses must be, in large part, theoretical, in 
order to cover the ground necessary to pass the required examinations 
of the State Registration Board. 

Some hospitals have class-rooms arranged with individual gas 
burners as in school kitchens, where cooking lessons can be given. This 
is good but does not seem a necessity, for usually arrangements can 
be made so that these practical lessons may be given in the diet kitchen 
at some time when it is not in use. The equipment necessary for a 
diet kitchen depends entirely upon the amount and kind of work to 
be done in the kitchen. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER DIETITIAN IN THE HOSPITAL, 

FIELD.i 

Mary A. Lindsley. 

The housekeeping dietitian has a veiy broad and interesting field. 
Her work may cover the entire housekeeping department or it may only 
include certain parts of it. If it does cover the entire field it is one of 
the most important positions in the household. It is an ideal profes- 
sion for a woman, one in which she can do her best work, and if she 
puts her personality and enthusiasm into it can make it show as much 
individuality as she could in her own home. She is the one person in 
the hospital who can give it atmosphere an of home. 

Her work will embrace the managing of the laundry and Unen room, 
the cleaning and care of the nurses' home, general kitchen, employing 
the help, and perhaps the buying of the supphes needed for these de- 
partments. In fact it will embrace just as much of housekeeping as she 
is wilUng to do and capable of handling. And here should be empha- 
sized the importance of every woman handling all the work for which 
she is mentally and physically capable, and not hesitating because it 
isn't the work she was engaged to do. The hospital needs women 
who are willing to shoulder its burdens. 

In order to handle this work the housekeeping dietitian will need a 
kitchen matron, head laundress, a competent woman in the linen 
room, and, depending on the size of her hospital, an assistant, someone 
in each place who will care for the details and on whom she can depend, 
and in whom she can instill the importance of feehng that the work is 
entirely theirs and that not an article be wasted that can possibly be 
utihzed. 

The cleanliness is one thing that needs constant looking after and to 
which the dietitian must give her personal attention. In the general 
kitchen and in the buying of its supphes will be the most absorbing 
work. The making of the menus for the different people of the 
household; regulating the kitchen-help schedides so that each one is a 

' Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 

425 



426 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

part of the machinery; giving out the supplies and checking their 
quantities, so that the dietitian knows where the supplies are used and 
for what; seeing that the food leaves the general kitchen in such condi- 
tion that it cannot be criticised and in proper quantities, these are some 
of the duties of the housekeeping dietitian. 

The employees look to the dietitian and housekeeper to take a 
personal interest in their meals, and it more than pays when they know 
that someone is looking after their food, and attending to their wants. 

The nurses, one of the most important factors in the hospital, who 
are expected to give their best mentally and physically, cannot do so 
if they do not have wholesome, seasonable, and appetizing food, and 
above all, never know what they are going to have. It seems as 
though the hospital should pay more attention to the nurses' food, 
and that the dietitian is the one who must do this. The house-staff 
and supervisors get the best meals but they also greatly appreciate a 
little personal interest. Thus the dietitian has her entire family, as 
well as patients, and if she has ward, semi-ward, and private patients 
she has a great variety of meals to put out. And here comes the 
advantage in buying her own supplies. She knows the cost, the season, 
the cost of labor, and she can give a greater variety, a more seasonable 
meal, when she only is responsible for the cost and output. It is 
every dietitian's pride to have a low per capita rate, but she must keep 
in mind the high cost of food, and the rights of each member of the 
institution. 

The work of the laundry is closely connected with that of the linen 
rooms. The buying of linen, the prices paid, the quality purchased, 
depend all upon the use and care given it. Most articles of linen in the 
hospital are used once and then laundered so that the wear in washing 
is greater than that from actual use. No one realizes this sooner than 
the purchaser. Consequently it is necessary for her to know the 
method employed in the washing. If the laundry is run as a separate 
department, the laundress wants to maintain it at as low a cost as 
possible, which may result in larger linen bills. When you realize that 
a towel, for instance, is used at its longest twenty minutes, and yet 
it takes one hour and a quarter for the laundry to put it out in its quick- 
est time, the necessity for a good soap, and the avoiding of acids are 
most important. It may raise the maintenance of the laundry, but 
it will pay in the end. 

The quality of the sheet and the laundrying of it are of as great im- 
portance to the patient as the food. Nothing is more annoying than 



19 1 2] Housekeeper Dietitian in Hospital Field 427 

badly washed and mangled bedding. It also gives the housekeeper 
as keen pleasure to know her linen is well made, mended and washed 
as it does to know her food is as nearly perfect as possible. 

In engaging the employees, scheduling the work so that each one is 
independent of the other and each one having a list of work, is a great 
advantage in reducing the payroll and in getting better results. Em- 
ployees like to feel that they are a part of the great machinery, and 
that they, by careful use of supplies increase their value to the hospital. 
When the housekeeper can get her employees to take this attitude she 
has not only helped the individual but her institution. 

Buying the supplies takes a great deal of time; seeing different repre- 
sentatives, quotations over the phone, and frequently a visit to the 
markets, all are necessary. The salesman who calls takes time, 
but it is an advantage to see him for he always gives some infor- 
mation that is valuable, if not in buying his goods in purchasing 
from someone else. And if he calls several times and does not 
get an interview, he is apt to carry away the impression that there 
is some graft system. For this very reason, it seems an advantage to 
buy from several different firms dealing in the same Une of goods. 
It is impossible for the woman filling such a position to have regular 
hours, and she must be big enough to realize that the work of manag- 
ing the housekeeping department is an absorbing one, and that when 
emergencies arise it is her duty and pleasure to adjust them. Calls on 
her time will come early and late, and it is the woman who is ready to 
meet these who is in demand. This does not mean that she should 
have no time, but her position is one of the most wearing in the insti- 
tution. She will have every complaint on food, laundry, cleaning, 
ineflScient help, and other complaints which do not belong to her. 
Therefore it is necessary that she get away from it at times and have 
complete rest. 



THE COOPERATION OF DIETITIAN AND PHYSICIAN.^ 
E. Grace McCullough. 

It is in somewhat of a reminiscent mood that this paper is presented. 

The topic carries back exactly six years. In June, 1906, it was my 
great privilege to make a short journey with Mrs. Richards. The few 
days spent together were most helpful to me. Time and again have 
stray portions of our conversations returned with fuller emphasis, 
almost prophetic. Yet none more so than one question, out of which 
grew the short paper she later asked me to write for the next session 
of the Lake Placid Conference in September of the same year. The 
underlying thoughts embodied in that paper are not changed in the 
slightest. The sentences in regard to the dietitian which read, "She 
has a dignified standing" — "A changing yet brilliant future" — "The 
outlook tends toward specialization," are truer today by six years' 
test, than when they were first written. 

We had been discussing the dietitian, her fitness for the work, her 
relative place in the institution and her future — then a silence — sud- 
denly Mrs. Richards raised her head in that quick, alert manner Vvhich 
her friends remember so well, and said, "What are we to do with our 
domestic science graduates? They cannot all be teachers." "No, 
Mrs. Richards," was my reply, "nor can they all be dietitians." 

If the same question were put to me today, the answer would be 
almost as brief, and certainly as emphatic — No; they cannot all be 
dietitians, and very few should be hospital dietitians. 

Wherefore the qualifying of my reply? There are two fundamental 
reasons: First, The work of the dietary department in the hospital 
differs in several ways from that in any other institution. The food 
purchased and served must be reckoned for the sick as well as those in 
normal health. The ill are to be fed up to health, the well kept there; 
if possible, all are to be kept contented and happy. The teaching 
and training of the nurses in dietetics must be along special lines in 
addition to a general course. There must be maintained a definite, 

1 Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Eonomics Association, June, 191 2. 

428 



1912] Cooperation of Dietitian and Physician 429 

unequivocal position and a steady advance in the entire field. The 
standard should be continuously raised by the best practical methods 
which mean good financiering and frictionless institutional machinery. 

A great part of the hospital's dietary department is concerned with 
ward work, whether the large open wards or the private ones. There 
are three phases of this ward work to be carefully super\dscd, the daily 
three meals, the regulation list of diets, and the special diets for which 
work every hospital dietitian should be conscientiously selected. This 
brings us to the second factor, the individual equation, or the fitness 
for the work, which counts so tremendously that it might be considered 
the hospital dietitian's largest asset. She can not grasp the full scope 
of the work at once. The road is narrow and long; never is it by ways 
of pleasantness where all the paths are peace. The work requires an 
enormous amount of enthusiasm to carry through the first twelve 
months, and this enthusiasm must be a personal distinctive force, 
the conscious power of doing the work the world needs. 

The dietitian, at her best, is but a small part of large institutional 
machinery. To be paradoxical, she must lose herself in the work and 
at the same time find herself the recognized head of her department; 
where these two connect or divide, enters that God-given attribute, 
tact. The amount or variety of the work is not here exaggerated, 
nor are any of the requirements exceeded. 

Ever and anon the question comes. What are the duties of a hospital 
dietitian? I might be facetious and say. All of her own, and some of 
everyone's else. And again. What must she know? There is abso- 
lutely no limit to the amount of knowledge she is expected to carry 
around, so systematically pigeon-holed within gray matter as to be 
on call for every questioner. She must meet the superintendent, 
the engineer, the butcher and baker, intelligently, and decide quickly 
for her department; pass upon the proper slaughtering of a pig; be 
asked in consultation regarding the prevention of the wholesale slaugh- 
tering of the innocent; know ever>' stage of vegetable life from seed to 
seed again ; be conversant with every phase of food, from the psychol- 
ogy of the intake to the bacteriology of the outgo, plus the chemistry 
for each change; she must compute the percentage of the money in- 
vested when reckoning the percentage of energy in the food involved; 
she must be as familiar with all the details of a laboratory as with the 
kitchens and able to hold her own with any department or line of work 
which touches the dietary department. Any — here let us pause — for 
out of this "any" appears the main point of divergence for the hospital 



430 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

dietitian's work, making it distinct from all other. This point becomes 
the point of contact with the medical profession. What the dietitian 
makes out of this point, depends entirely upon herself. Trifles light 
as air determine the rise to full privilege, or rather fellowship, the post 
of honor, as first feeding — aid to the medical case after diagnosis — 
meaning, as the title selected for this paper — the co5peration of the 
dietitian and physician. 

But, before we leave the worker and proceed to the details, we 
feel there must be sounded an additional note of warning to the pros- 
pective hospital dietitian. She must know, and those who train 
should be convinced, that specializing toward the pathological branch 
of the work, expecting only feeding in disease, that bedside and clinical 
duty are to be the chief duties, omitting all the practical courses which 
round out the student as a general dietitian, that such specializing 
will be absolutely futile. She must make good in every detail of the 
entire dietary department before she is recognized by a member of 
the visiting staff. All this is disillusioning. The trying out process 
frequently means being ignored. 

There are two invisible barriers never to be overlooked by the die- 
tetic aspirant which separate her from the consummation of the great 
desire to be called upon for "special service." The first is the jeal- 
ously guarded "rights of precedence," and the second is the im written 
law of "professional courtesy." Should the dietitian take upon her- 
self the initiative to break through these walls, she has committed a 
breach of professional etiquette, never condoned — having over-stepped, 
she is thereafter \'iewed with distrust. Could a list of "dont's" be 
handed to the youthful domestic science graduate as a warning against 
unknown rocks and reefs, a deal of unnecessary friction might be 
avoided. 

To those enlisted in the ranks for hospital feeding this is a twice 
told tale and all too true, while for those entering the field it may seem 
too graphic and not true. Much depends upon the point of view. 
The dietitian works out her own salvation. We attract the conditions 
of our daily life by our attributes of mind, under seemingly purposeless 
acts there is always the strong current of personal inclination. 

The main question at issue is, how to bring about the cooperation 
between such a "close corporation" as exists and the dietitian. Please 
do not consider me frivolous, if I say in many cases it appears to be 
just blind luck; the open sesame in too many instances, has hinged 
upon incidents that are not most pertinent to the gravity of the situ- 



19 1 2] Cooperation of Dietitian and Physician 431 

ation; in one instance, a goitre; in another, a good-as-dead Greek 
woman whose soul was more starved than her body; in another the 
grip of a strong right hand upon the trouser leg of a would-be suicide; 
and the honest "I do not know" of a senior interne; answered by 
"Well, go find out" from the "great man," have brought the dietitian 
within the inner shrine. 

Many dietitians find the attitude of the "house staff" takes on color 
from the personal relations existing between herself and individual 
members which grow out of the fact that she also supplies their daily 
bread and it is not to their liking. It is not a cheerful atmosphere 
when some like pease pudding hot and others wish it cold. This 
pettiness, which although only a local condition, is extremely uncom- 
fortable and discouraging to that particular dietitian, but will not 
have any general bearing upon the future cooperation as a whole. 

Dietotherapy has come to the fore within the past twenty years, 
along with hydrotherapy and psychotherapy. They are not new, 
but history repeating itself, and anyone tracing through the centuries 
the rise and decadence of the various specialties used as "aids" in the 
course of the science of medicine, will find it most interesting. Realiz- 
ing that the feeding by science is not new, the tremendous advance in 
all the sciences makes the present day methods certainly a new depar- 
ture. The up-to-date physician is ever ready to avail himself of all 
the "aids" which are for the good, the rapid convalescence and life 
of his patients. Energy and time are limited and it is a physical 
impossibility to personally attend to details. The ancient practitioner 
who rolled all his pills and brewed his own elixirs, passed with the 
stage coach and the "old gray nag." Then came a drug prescription 
to the near-by drug store. Now the physician writes a prescription 
to the "hydro," one for the masseur, another for the psychologist, 
and why not for the dietist? It is no longer a question, but a fact: 
Food prescriptions are written with the same formality as one for the 
pharmacy; usually headed by the diagnosis in the upper right corner 
and ending with the number of calories (if desired) in the lower left 
corner, the quantities of fat, carbohydrate and protein designated in 
total grams for twenty-four hours, the entire fluid content estimated 
in litres. 

These prescriptions reach the dietitian, who sees that they are 
divided into the required number of feedings, calculated, properly 
prepared, and promptly delivered from the diet laboratory. This is 
the first step, recognizing and appropriating the diet kitchen already 



432 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

installed, which had heretofore been used only for teaching nurses the 
rudiments of invalid cookery and for making tit-bits for favored 
patients. 

The wave of infant-feeding raged furiously and swept two conti- 
nents. From the wreckage of numerous opinions, formulae, etc., 
there has emerged the child specialist, the milk laboratory and the 
special formula for the special infant. This formula is also written 
out after the manner of the other prescriptions and not numbered 
to fit the card but to suit the case. Pasteurization continues to see- 
saw — for and against — as the "Service" changes. The cooperation 
at this point is definite, the dietitian intelligently answers questions 
and assists in computing spHt proteids and determining coefficients — 
because few doctors care to do it and some internes do not know how. 

The great white plague can be called the entering wedge to more 
cordial relationship than anticipated. Tuberculosis was the first 
disease which wanted, asked, and received all possible cooperation. 
During the flood-tide of "high protein" feeding which taxed the me- 
tabolism of the patients, the patience of the nurses and the ingenuity 
of the dietitian to the utmost, to say nothing of the strain upon the 
money bags of the state, city and indi\ddual, the physician and dieti- 
tian worked in accord, and when the feeding pendulum swung to 
the opposite extreme, the starvation diet rested heaviest upon her. 
When the rational middle mark was reached, the number of feeding 
cases had so increased, several hours each day were required to make 
bedside rounds. 

Chronologically, following tuberculosis, the "true dietetic diseases" 
claimed unusual attention and careful selection of the food. Doctors 
everywhere are divided upon the subject. This or that "cure" sup- 
plants another without a fair trial, for diabetes, nephritis, other kidney 
troubles, and gastro-intestinal disturbances. The dietitian must cer- 
tainly keep a middle line, yet know the details of each one, and her 
best judgment is called into play to supply the proper number of feed- 
ings daily in an acceptable manner, from a diet prescription which has 
no more food value sometimes than the paper on which it is written. 
With these diseases she is asked to suggest — and this is the highest 
cooperation thus far reached. Convalescence is gradually being short- 
ened by different feeding during acute stages of disease and by careful 
fuel feeding after it is arrested. Calories are estimated up or down 
to the normal weight for the size of the patient. The feeding up of 
a case does not mean simply extra eggs and a few glasses of milk, the 



1912] Household Administration and Public Utilities 433 

feeding down not merely a reduction in bulk, but of intelligent elimina- 
tion. 

Having reached the present situation, the outlook for tomorrow sug- 
gests two alluring vistas for the dietitian : The first, she must continue 
to specialize and eventually will occupy a position as head with over- 
sight of the executive division of the dietary department, a position 
similar to those of the pathologist, chemist and pharmacist, on call 
and for consultation; the other, that of dietist at large, with office 
hours and a round of visits to patients cooperating with the private 
physician. I may not see it, nor you, but it is coming. 

Rather than summarize the foregoing, I will quote directly from Dr. 
William F. Boos' admirable paper, published in the Boston Medical 
and Surgical Journal, 19 10: 

Dietitians have come to be as necessary in a modem hospital as the visiting 
medical staff itself. The demand for this profession must be met. At present it 
is a woman's work, waiting for her and offering fine inducements to her. If there 
are no women available — and I fear there are not many — it will not be long, in these 
days of over-crowded professions, before men %vill add dietetics to the list of calUngs 
for men, and women may realize too late what an opportunity they have lost, in 
part at least. 

THE RELATION OF HOUSEHOLD ADMINISTRATION 
TO PUBLIC UTILITIES.^ 

Martha Bensley Bru^re. 

So far, the Conference seems to have agreed upon one thing, that 
practically all the problems of household administration resolve them- 
selves into problems of service. 

Not long ago the dean of women of one of the western colleges which 
has a large domestic science department told me that she was afraid 
that we were making domestic science a fad; — paying so much atten- 
tion to it that it was getting in the way of culture. Now, from the 
very beginning of time we have devoted attention to domestic science 
for the sole and only reason that it should get out of the way of culture. 

Mrs. Bru^re evidently considers it high time that our women should realize 
their relation to the larger world of business, to awaken to their power as consumers 
over all departments of public serx'ice. This power depends on their ability to 
work together. It would be most interesting to discuss the methods of reaching 
these ends and we shall be glad to print correspondence from our readers on the 
subject. — Editor. 

1 Presented at the Lake Placid meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association June 191 2. 



434 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

That was why the problem of service originally came in. The domes- 
tic servant got the work of the household out of the way of her mis- 
tress' culture. 

I have just been \asiting in a little Indiana town within a stone's 
throw of the Wabash River. It has 526 inhabitants and there is not 
a servant in the place. It has, however, an academy with a domestic 
science department, the equipment of which I was permitted to in- 
spect. That department is based on the use of the coal stove, and 
owns one of the best, most complete, most energetic coal stoves I 
have ever seen. It has no fireless cooker, no power-run washing 
machine or bread mixer, no equipment of any sort which could not be 
put into immediate practical use in this town which has neither elec- 
tricity, gas nor water power, although the Wabash River, many horse 
power strong, runs by in idleness. The domestic science school has 
accepted absolutely the limits of the town and bases its teaching, 
not on what it would be possible for the town to have, but on the 
things of which it is already in possession. There is no course in this 
school which even aims to teach students how to make that Wabash 
River into the common servant of the place. As a result both of 
the domestic science instruction in the academy, and of the naturally 
industrious and painstaking disposition of the women, the homes of 
that town are swept and garnished, the clothes of its people are spot- 
less and the food on its tables is abundant and perfectly cooked. 
The women are good housewives. But the streets are unlit and un- 
sprinkled, the library of the academy, which is open to the public, is 
practically imused, and the women's club is inert. How should they 
be otherwise? The need of this perfect housekeeping and the taste 
for it take up practically all the time of the women. There are no 
servants for them to rely on and the management of their homes 
stands between them and culture, while the Wabash River, which 
might free them for the civic work of getting the town streets lit and 
sprinkled, attending the women's club and reading the library books, 
has never been made to do its duty. 

A few weeks earlier I had visited a Wisconsin town of about the 
same size which was a great contrast to this Indiana one. 

"Do you have electricity in your house?" I asked one of the 
women at the women's club. 

"Of course," she said. 

"Don't you find it very expensive?" I asked her. 

"Well, it does cost a good deal now, but when we get our plant 



1912] Household Administration and Public Utilities 435 

paid for, it will be cheaper than any fuel that we could have — oh, 
yes, we use it for cooking and lighting and running the washing 
machine. You see, the town has put in the plant and it costs now 
almost as much as you would have to pay in the city, but that is only 
until we get it paid for." 

The women of this town presented a large and energetic delegation 
to the joint meeting of the Wisconsin women's clubs. They reported 
that their town had lectures on civics, a new depot and schoolhouse 
and were e\'idently taking an active interest in the village govern- 
ment. They had time! They had absolutely refused to accept the 
limits of their town. They had made a public utility their domestic 
servant and had thus put housework out of the way of culture. 

It was in only a few places that I have found domestic science 
teachers recognizing their responsibility, not only to teach their pupils 
how to use the materials and equipment already at hand, but to pro- 
vide themselves with the best that science had de\-ised — teachers 
who recognize that it is part of housework to create and manage the 
public utilities which have taken the place of domestic servants. 
This problem of the management of public utilities by the housewife 
is not alone a country problem or a small town problem. It is even 
more a city problem, for in the large cities, although the public util- 
ities exist, they are put out of the reach of most of the people by their 
high charges. Take electricity for cooking, for instance. The public 
schools of Chicago do not teach cooking on the electric stove, not 
because Chicago is without electric current, but because it costs ten 
cents a kilowatt hour, a price which puts it beyond the reach of ninety- 
nine out of a hundred housewives in the city. And yet the people 
own through the Sanitary District of Chicago the drainage canal 
which has 125,000 horse power going to waste. The children are 
not taught how they can control this power which belongs to the 
people, how they can turn it into electric current and use it in the 
city kitchens at a price which makes this best fuel of all what it really 
is — the cheapest thing for household use. In the case of Chicago, the 
public utility servant is already created. It is not controlled. 

In this situation, which exists in most of the large cities, there are 
three things to do. First, the one that is taught by the schools and 
the magazines and which amounts practically to a boycott; that is, 
we are told that we must use some cheap substitute for the thing we 
want. The magazines give recipes which will take the place of things 
cooked with eggs. The schools advocate milkless puddings and the 



43^ The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

creamless oatmeal, and tell us how to make near-cake, and what 
can be substituted for meat. In general, they teach the pernicious 
doctrine of getting along with less instead of finding ways to get more. 
They advocate a sort of inverted evolution, which if persisted in, 
would send us like crabs backward along the slow path of civilization. 
The second method is even worse. It is the method of doing the work 
of the pubHc utihty for it, saving its bones and muscles and tired 
back, as it were. I saw not long ago a magazine advocating the 
home making of soap, because it was cheaper. There is hardly a 
woman's page in the country that does not advocate home-made 
garments because they can be made at a less price than the factory 
will furnish them. The New York Times a few days ago printed a 
laudatory article about the graduating class of a Broome Street 
grammar school, all of whom had made their graduating dresses at 
a cost not to exceed $i apiece. The Times went on lightly to say 
that these dresses would have cost $30 in a store. Well, in that case, 
the Times probably did not know. The dresses might have cost $5 
or $6 in a store. Now, far be it from me to lessen the advantage 
from the standpoint of culture, of these girls learning how to sew and 
cut and make their own clothes. It is probably just as great a devel- 
opment of the mind as to learn the tables of weights and measures, 
and it also gives them a small amount of manual dexterity which is 
valuable. But would it not be more worth while to teach them how 
to find out Avhy the readymade dress costs five or six times as much 
as the one they make themselves? If they are paying their servants, 
the manufacturers, too high a price, ought they not to know it? That 
is the third and best way to control the public utilities — to cut down 
the wages we pay them. And the thing is no dream, because it has 
actually been done. 

Take the Consolidated Gas Company of New York City that used 
to charge, some five or six years ago, $1 per 1000 feet of gas. I was 
living in the New York ghetto when the campaign for 80 cent gas 
was on. Twenty cents difference per 1000 feet of gas in the ghetto 
where there is no storage for coal and where practically all cooking 
and heating operations depend on gas, is a very serious thing. The 
candidates of all the different political parties used to speak from soap 
boxes under our window, and whenever one of them said 80 cent gas, 
the crowd that blocked the streets would cheer, while the candidate 
who did not mention it was listened to in silence, and as a result, the 
80 cent gas ordinance was put through. The Company immediately 



1912] Household Administration and Public Utilities 437 

set up the claim that they could not manufacture and sell gas at 80 
cents, and that a law requiring them to do so was confiscatory, and 
therefore unconstitutional. It was carried up to the Supreme Court 
in the case of Wilcox vs. The Consolidated Gas Company, and the 
Supreme Court found that 80-cent gas would yield a 6 per cent returri 
on the investment, and decided that 6 per cent was not confiscatory. 

This case was important, not because it fixed the price of gas for 
that city, but because it established the principle that the people have 
a right to determine the pay they will give their servants, the pub- 
lic utilities. 

Boston has put in practically the same ruling in adopting its '"' slid- 
ing scale" which fixes the di\adend its gas monopoly can pay at 7 
per cent, but allows them an increase of i per cent on its dividends 
for every 5 cent reduction in the price of gas. The regulation of the 
street car fares in Cleveland was a recognition of the same principle. 

Of course it may be argued that only a few of the things with which 
the housewife directly deals are public utilities, on the basis that to 
be a public utility a company must have a franchise to use public 
property. But Judge Waite of the United States Supreme Court 
has enlarged the significance of the public utility by saying: " Property 
does become clothed with a public interest when used in a manner 
to make it of public consequence and affect the community at large. 
When one devotes his property to a use in which the public has an 
interest, he grants to the public an interest in that use and must sub- 
mit to be controlled by the public for the common good." 

Under this decision, would not the milk combine, the beef combine, 
the National Biscuit Company, and all the various purveyors of food 
and clothing and fuel and building material, be considered public 
utilities, and therefore servants of the home and to be controlled by the 
house wife? 

It seems to me that any domestic science teaching which takes as 
a basis of calculation the existing price or rarity of a thing and con- 
siders it as final, is missing its best chance, for if, as the previous speak- 
ers have said, the problem of Home Economics is ultimately a prob- 
lem of service, then it is the function of the house wife to control 
this service, whether it is a service by human beings, by machines or 
by public utilities. The underlying idea of domestic science teaching 
should be not only to make the best use of what we can have under 
existing conditions, but to show how we can change existing condi- 
tions so that we can have what we need. 



SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD.^ 

Frank B. Gilbreth. 

Housekeeping is an industry which embraces a variety of activities 
and, like all other industries, it can be well managed or badly managed. 
The saving of strength of the housekeeper, the finding of time for 
rest and recreation, as well as the right use of money expended for the 
household, depend in a large measure upon the skill of the housekeeper 
and her efficiency as a manager and as a worker. It would seem that 
principles that have proved of use in the scientific management of 
commercial industries might have an application to the business of 
housekeeping. In this paper, the practices as applied to commercial 
industries, are set forth with the hope that housekeepers and teachers 
of home economics may be able to apply them at least in some measure 
to the solution of their problems. 

Principles of Scientific Management. 

There is undoubtedly a considerable waste of time, energy, and 
money, resulting from imperfect organization, or from the absence of 
organization, of the work of the household. Application of some of 
the principles of scientific management would tend to reduce and even 
to eliminate this waste. 

In all organized work there are two plans of management. The 
first of these represents what is variously known as military or tradi- 
tional management. Under this plan, each man is responsible to one 
man only above him, and is in charge of all below him. Thus, it is 
the custom for any man to come in contact with only one man above 
him, the line of authority being single and direct. Traditional man- 
agement has been used for centuries in military organizations, and has 
also been used many times in religious organizations and political 
organizations. The division is by men, by grades of men rather than 
by functions. This plan is illustrated by figure i. 

Figure 2 represents functional or scientific management, or what 
would be called, but for objections by Dr. Taylor, the Taylor system of 

1 Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 

438 



I9I2J 



Scientific Management in the Household 



439 



management. Here the di\dsion is by functions. The first functional 
division is the separation of the planning from the performing. Graphi- 
cally, this separation is represented by the horizontal line. All func- 
tions above this line are of the planning, all functions below this Hne 
are of the performing. Note the functions shown on this chart, namely 
four functions in the planning and four functions in the performing. 
Note also their relation to each other, and to the individual worker. 

This chart shows one such worker represented by the lowest circle. 
There could be no objection to representing each individual worker 
by such a circle, but the relation of each such worker to those over 
him is exactly the same. Hence, the lowest circle is typical. 

It will be noted that the worker receives orders directly from eight 
different foremen. It has been said that no man can serve two mas- 



9 


666(^<b6 


(:)666(;)666 


iiiiiiii 



WC » — Otagram UliatrninK the principle of Traditional i 
Mtlttary ManacemenL 



2) m (v; 



FIG. ? — Diftsram iUustratioj the principle of PunctioaaJ ( 
Soeotific MBnicemcnu 



ters,and this is true even in scientific management. But under scien- 
tific management the worker does not serve eight masters, nor eight 
functional foremen, but, on the other hand, he receives help from eight 
different foremen or teachers. In this way, his case is not very differ- 
ent from that of the student who receives instruction from eight differ- 
ent professors, in eight different studies. 

The four functions in the planning department are represented by 
(i) route clerk and order of work clerk, (2) instruction card clerk, 
(3) time and cost clerk, and (4) disciplinarian. 

Although in this presentation each function is represented by a per- 
son, each function may be represented by any number of individuals, 
or one individual may perform several functions, according to the kind 
of work, and the conditions necessary to eUminate all possible waste. 
Each one of these four men of the four functions in the planning 



44© The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

department, is supreme in his respective function. All deal directly 
with the worker, and all deal directly with the four functional foremen 
who are in the performing department. 

Of the performing department we have four functions represented 
by (5) gang boss, (6) speed boss, (7) repair boss, and (8) inspector. 

These functions, Uke those of the planning department, are repre- 
sented by as many men as the nature and amount of work justifies, 
or two or more functions may be represented by one individual. All 
such representatives deal, as the chart indicates, directly both with 
all the individuals in the planning department, and wdth each indi- 
vidual worker. 

The duties of the man handling each function will now be explained. 

Route Clerk. 

The duty of the route clerk is to plan in advance the path of each 
piece of material, worked and vmworked, as it passes through the shop 
or as it is handled by each and every member of the organization who 
has anything to do with it. He is to decide the three dimensions of 
the path, and the route that the material is to pass through, whether 
it is to go to the stores or into temporary storage piles, or directly 
through the shop as fast as it can be moved. His function is not sim- 
ply to look after the details of the moving, but broadly, to determine 
the entire transportation career of the material. For example, in 
building operations, he would determine where the car was to be placed 
to be unloaded, where the material was to be unloaded, when it was 
to be moved into the building, and exactly what path it would follow 
across the floor, up the elevators, and to its final resting place. 

Often the route clerk is able to greatly simplify the path of the mate- 
rials, especially on large orders, by a rearrangement or routing of 
the machinery. The route clerk's duties, also, oftentimes consist of 
demanding a new path, that is, ordering that machinery not used be 
removed, so that he can route his material by a more economical 
method. After he has determined the exact path by which the mate- 
rial shall be routed, he embodies his conclusions in route charts and 
route sheets; these illustrate his orders graphically, and are worked out 
in detail by the instruction card department. 



1912] Scientific Management in the Household 441 

The Instruction Card Clerk. 

It must not be supposed that the instruction card function consists 
wholly of the work of actually writing out the instruction cards. This 
is the name of the function in general, and this function may be han- 
dled by several men of different capacity in the instruction card func- 
tion, that is to say, the department may be divided into subfimctions. 
It is the duty of this function to work out in detail, that is to say, to 
devise and construct an instruction card for each element of the 
route sheets and route charts. The instruction card department must 
furnish in the greatest detail possible, such directions as will show two 
different classes of men their duties, namely: 

(a) The worker, who must know how to perform the particular 
work shown on the instruction card. 

(b) The functional foreman in the performing department, who must 
know exactly what he is to see that the worker does perform, and exactly 
what he is to teach the worker in order that he may so perform his 
work as to conform to the instruction card and to satisfy the man who 
made out the card. 

The Time and Cost Clerk. 

After the worker has performed his work, a return of the time that 
it took him to do his work, together with its cost, goes to the time and 
cost clerk, who figures out the payroll, the bonuses, and the cost of 
performing each task. 

The DiscrPLiNARiAN. 

He is the man who handles all matters in the entire organization per- 
taining to disciplining. He must be a broad gauge man who is able 
to keep peace in the organization; to anticipate and prevent many 
disagreements and misunderstandings before they actually occur, and 
to arbitrate or judge fairly such disagreements as actually take place. 

The Gang Boss. 

The gang boss is not the type of man represented by the "bucko 
mate" of the vessel of former days, who boasted that he could lick 
any man in the entire crew, and often did so for no other cause than to 
prove his words. He is now a man who can teach the worker the 
methods shown on the instruction card. His duty is to see that the 



442 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

worker preforms the work required exactly as called for, and of the 
prescribed quality shown on the instruction card. In order to get 
his best work and to enlist his zeal, it is usually necessary to pay him 
a bonus for each and every man under him who in turn earns his bonus, 
and a double bonus if every man in his gang earns the bonus. For 
example, suppose the gang boss received $3.00 per day, and had twenty 
men working under him, he would be paid, say, in round numbers, 
approximately 10 cents apiece for each man under him who received 
his bonus; and, if all twenty of the men received their bonus, he would 
receive a double bonus of 20 cents apiece for the entire gang. 

It is evident that such a plan of management as this will bring out 
cooperation as would no other plan, and it may be stated emphatically 
that only the hearty cooperation of the men will bring out good results 
from Scientific Management and the economies that it is possible to 
efifect by it. 

Speed Boss. 

The speed boss, regardless of the popular impression as to his duties, 
does not speed up the men, in fact he has very little to do with speed- 
ing the men. His duty is to see that the machinery moves at the 
exact speed called for on the instruction card. Evidently some one 
speed is more desirable than any other; for example, the speed of a 
buzz planer or a circular saw is very dangerous when it is too slow, 
while on the other hand, the speed of a fly-wheel of an engine is very 
dangerous when it is too fast. The one that is the most desirable and 
safe is the speed that the instruction card man attempts to set on the 
instruction card, and it is the duty of the speed boss to see that the 
machinery runs at all times at exactly the prescribed speed. He 
not only shows the worker how he can make his machine run at the 
speed called for, but, if there is a question as to its being possible to 
run at this speed, he must be prepared to teach the worker by doing the 
work himself, or provide a man who can comply with the requirements 
of the instruction card. 

Repair Boss. 

The next function is that of the repair boss. His duties consist 
principally of carrying out repairs and overhaulings, such as are called 
for on instruction cards that are given to him at regular, predeter- 
mined intervals. In this way breakdowns, as far as possible, are 
avoided. The repair boss, however, must be a resourceful man, pre- 
pared, in case of emergency, to jump in and repair any such breakdown 



19 1 2] Scientific Management in the Household 443 

as may occur, even in the absence of precise directions or an instruc- 
tion card. 

Inspector. 

His work is decidedly different from that of the inspector under the 
old type of management; for example, his inspection must result in 
constructive criticism, not destructive criticism. It is his duty to 
see that the material is rescued when it is not handled, or worked 
exactly as called for on the instruction card. 

Many times, under traditional management, the inspector comes 
around after the work is done, condemns it, and walks away, leaving 
it to others to see that the work is taken down, and perhaps, carted 
from the premises. Under Scientific Management the inspector is 
required to stand near the worker when he is handling a new piece of 
work for the first time, in order to see that he thoroughly under- 
stands his work as it progresses. Thus the material is not spoiled. 
If the worker has a task of, say, fifty pieces, the inspector inspects the 
first piece most carefully, to make sure that he is satisfied that the 
worker knows exactly what he is to do, how he is to do it, and the 
quality prescribed by the instruction card. 

The Workman. 

As for the individual worker, it will be seen that he receives not only 
an instruction card telling him what he is to do, how he is to do it, 
how fast he is expected to do it, the prescribed quality with which the 
work must be done, and how much pay over and above his usual day's 
wages he will surely get if he does all that is called for on his instruc- 
tion card, but also, he receives personal teaching. The gang boss 
acts as his teacher constantly; the speed boss he can call on at all 
times to assist him with the speed; the repair boss cooperates with 
him to see that his machine is constantly kept in such repair that he 
can earn his bonus, and the inspector will also teach him at any time, 
and show him wherein he is making a deviation from the quality called 
for. Moreover, the functional foremen in the planning department 
are ready, at call, to ex-plain their instructions. Thus he has every 
help that is possible to enable him to earn the exceptionally high wages 
that are offered for Scientific Management. He is assured of the 
"square deal" from the foremen who are over him, and he always has 
the same opportunity to appeal to the disciplinarian, in case he is 
not being well treated, that a foreman would have in case the worker 



444 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

was not doing his work as well as he could do it, or was not trying to 
cooperate with the other workers. 

Having shown the principal functions of Scientific Management and 
their relation to each other, and to the indi\ddual worker, Motion 
Study will now be considered. 

The three most obvious economies to be obtained by Motion Study 
would be to use (i) the fewest motions, (2) the shortest motions, and 
(3) the least fatiguing motions; but these, however, are but a small 
part of the hst of savings that could be obtained. 

For example, in one organization, for over twenty years, a certain 
man's duties consisted of doing work that required his hands to be 
within 6 inches of the floor on which he stood, practically all day, 
except when he was resting; this man was probably about 6 feet 6 
inches tall. On the other hand, in the storage department, a very short 
man was pUing cases in a pile about 7 feet high. Here was clearly a 
failure to select the man best adapted to the kind of work to be per- 
formed. 

Motion Study is a part of the function of the planning department. 
It is here necessary to go back a Httle way and see what it is that the 
instruction card man is supposed to do. His duty first of all is to 
devise a way that is the most economical and the least wasteful of 
all ways that can be devised, and the nearer he can get to perfec- 
tion the better he is in his function. The nearer his method is to 
perfection, the more scientifically can rates be set. It must be 
remembered that under Scientific Management the rate is never cut. 
Any manager who is familiar with the evil by-products of cutting the 
rate on piece work will readily understand the tremendous benefits 
that accrue from any system where the rates are so fixed that not only 
the rate need never be cut, but that there is no incentive to ever cut 
the rate. Cutting the rate results in scientific loafing, which is quite 
the opposite of hearty cooperation, and without hearty cooperation 
high wages to the workman and low production costs to the employer 
are impossible. 

Motion Study is so intimately related to time study that it is quite 
diflScult to specify exactly where one begins and the other leaves off. 
Perhaps the best way to describe it would be to say that Motion Study 
is for the purpose of seeing that the process is right, and time study is 
for the purpose of determining how long each element of the process 
will take, and how much time must be devoted to rest for overcoming 
fatigue. 



igi2] Scientific Management in the Household 445 

Motion Study theoretically is supposed to furnish measurable 
units for time study, but the units are so small that they have not, 
until recently, been timeable. It is expected that a mechanical de\-ice 
for this purpose will be on the market very soon, capable of timing the 
motions of a workman very accurately. 

Teaching of right motions should precede teaching of quality of 
output. All thought of quality should be neglected temporarily for 
the sake of acquiring great precision of right motions. Hitherto, 
failure to recognize this fact was due to lack of knowledge of the right 
motions. Ordinary stereoscopic and motion picture photographs 
now permit the recognition, separation, and measurement of the vari- 
ous motions with great accuracy, and the results are quicker teaching, 
automaticity of motions, habits of right motions, and less fatigue 
and less percentages of fatigue. These all permit much faster motions. 

There are a great many other reasons why motions should be stand- 
ardized, and if they are standardized, it goes without saying that the 
motions should be the right motions. One of the reasons for taking 
great care in standardizing motions is that it reduces enormously the 
amount of time study that must be taken, and time study is at best 
an expensive and somewhat tedious process. It is more important 
to have a standard method for each process early, than to have the 
best possible methods; however, it is, of course, desirable that the 
standard process shall be built up from the best known motions at the 
time that it is standardized. 

There are many variables that affect the motions, and one or more of 
these may make it necessary or advisable to completely eliminate mo- 
tions which were considered essential before due consideration was 
given to the variables. The list of variables here given, by no means 
complete, may preferably be divided into three classes: (i) the vari- 
ables of the worker; (2) the variables of the tools, equipment, appli- 
ances; (3) the variables of the motion itself. 

Variables of the Worker. 

Anatomy, bra\Mi, contentment, creed, earning power, experience, 
fatigue, habits, health, mode of living, nutrition, size, skill, tempera- 
ment, training. 

Variables of the Motion. 

Acceleration, automaticity, combination with other motions and 
sequence, cost, direction, effecti\cness, foot-pounds of work accom- 
phshed, length, necessity, path, play for position, speed. 



446 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Variables of the Surrounding Equipment and Tools. 

Appliance, clothes, colors, entertainment, music, reading, heating, 
cooling, ventilation, lighting, quality of material, reward and punish- 
ment, size of unit moved, special fatigue-eliminating devices, surround- 
ings, tools, union rules, weight of unit moved. 

The object of Motion Study is to discover perfection and to perpetu- 
ate it automatically. 

Scientific Management has been extremely slow in making an 
advance in the industries and the principal reason for this is that the 
scientific managers have been obliged to train their own men. There 
is no school at the present time that has sent out young men who were 
familiar with even the vocabulary of Scientific Management. 

After determination of the right motions, the right times for the 
motions, and grouping them into cycles of elements, of subdivisions, 
of processes, the next step is determination of the amount of rest 
required for overcoming fatigue. The result is the standard task for 
the standard man. 

It is necessary here to explain the terms "standard man," "first-class 
man," and "given man." While motions and the time of motion 
have been determined by observation of the best men procurable, it 
is to be expected that other men will be obtained who will be as good 
as the best man picked out for this purpose. The first-class man is 
the man who is best adapted to this particular work; that is to say, 
the best man adapted to do this work continually and thrive. The 
first-class men are obtained from the given men. Some find that they 
cannot do the w^ork, and either become discouraged or are assigned to 
other work before they get discouraged. Many people think that the 
hard task makes an unwarrantable hardship upon the worker, but this 
is not so, for Scientific Management contemplates having each man 
work at the highest class of work for which he is mentally and physi- 
cally and by experience able to work at continuously and thrive. The 
interdependence of all the men from the individual workman to the 
highest man in the planning department is so noticeable that it is neces- 
sary that only those men are picked out to do the work who are capable 
of doing it so as not to delay those that follow in a dependent sequence 
of operation. If an inefificient man who could not be depended upon 
to do a certain predetermined piece of work were permitted to work 
at a place where he failed to perform his task day after day, he would 
prevent all those men who follow him from earning high wages; 



1912] Scientific Management in the Household 447 

therefore it would be unfair to the other men to permit any man to 
work at any task which he could not perform continuously and 
efficiently. 

Now that there is so much literature on the subject of Scientific 
Management, why is it a fact that the progress of the study has been 
so remarkably slow? The answer to this question is that many people 
who are thoroughly familiar with the duties of the men and the vari- 
ous functions are not familiar with the pitfalls that are ever present 
in its installation. The entire scheme is dependent upon the hearty 
cooperation of everybody in the organization, and workmen every- 
where have been deceived so many times in the past that they are 
naturally suspicious that this Scientific Management is nothing more 
nor less than a new fraudulent confidence game presented to them in a 
more deceptive form than they have ever seen, and they believe that 
it is for their best interests to smother it while it is still young. 

On the other hand, there never has been a case where Scientific 
Management has been properly installed, that all the workmen did 
not realize that it was much better for them than any form of manage- 
ment that they had ever seen. Now that there have been many suc- 
cessful demonstrations of Scientific Management where the workers 
receive much higher wages than ever before and where the costs of 
production are lower than ever experienced by manufacturers before, 
it seems extremely unfortunate that the terrible wastes that are going 
on where Scientific Management is not in operation should continue, 
and it is hoped that universities and other institutions of learning will 
consider seriously the study of Scientific Management, not only for 
the education of the young men who are going out into the world as 
engineers, but also with the idea of establishing permanent stations 
for the collection of Motion Study and time study data, in cooperation 
with the universities and with the national and state governments. 

The problem is too great for any one firm, corporation, or college; in 
fact, this is work in which all English speaking nations should unite as 
they have already done in investigations of matters pertaining to 
medicine, agriculture, and the animal industries. Much good would 
come from the establishment of an international bureau for the study, 
collection, cataloguing and dissemination of data relating to Scientific 
Management, through the amelioration of the condition of workmen 
of all countries, and the elimination of unnecessary waste. 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UNIFORM 
ACCOUNTING FOR INSTITUTIONS. ^ 

The membership of this committee was intended to include repre- 
sentatives of various types of institutions and various aspects of insti- 
tutional work. The committee has had a progressive, rather than a 
constant life, for the membership has been enlarged as various phases 
of the work were attempted and advice upon them became necessary. 
Besides the chairman, the following, in the order of service, have 
had a part in the work of the committee: Miss Olive Davis, director 
of halls of residence, Wellesley College; Dr. Frederic A. Washburn, 
Jr., superintendent of the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; 
Dr. Roland H. Harris, member of the board of trustees of the Battle 
Creek Sanitarium; Mr. John L. Taylor, assistant comptroller of Har- 
vard University, and treasurer of the Symmes (Arlington, Mass.) 
Hospital; Miss Florence Ruth Corbett, dietitian at Teachers College, 
Columbia University, and consulting dietitian for institutions; Mr. 
Edgar A. Fisher, purchasing agent of Earlham College. 

This gives the committee, counting some members in more than one 
capacity when their work has more than one aspect for the purposes 
of the committee, four representatives of hospitals, one representative 
of a sanitarium, four representatives of the food-and-shelter aspect 
of colleges, three representatives of the teaching aspect of colleges, and 
two accountants. Mr. Melvil Dewey of the Lake Placid Club has 
given the committee much help, particularly in the consideration of 
problems of clubs and hostelries. 

A complete plan for uniform accounting would require a large volume 
for exposition and illustration. So many differences occur in insti- 
tutions that doubtless fifty modifications of any uniform plan would be 
required even for the institutions represented in this conference. Uni- 
formity of detail is not really uniformity at all, for details must differ 
where conditions differ; otherwise one cannot know that conditions 
are different, and the accounts will misrepresent the facts. What we 
mean by uniformity is uniformity of method — so that the same situa- 
tion will be disclosed by the same figures, and differences of situation 

1 Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 

448 



19 1 2] Report of Committee on Uniform Accounting 449 

will be disclosed by differences — and concomitant differences — of 
figures. 

For these reasons your committee has thought wise to recommend the 
adoption of certain principles that it believes essential to any sound 
accounting — whether for immediate costs, for studies of eflSciency, or 
for purposes of comparison, either within an institution or between 
institutions. 

These principles may be stated concisely as follows: 

1. Capital accounts, so-called, should be kept for all permanent 
property and equipment — and that means a capital accoimt for each 
department of the institution. The purpose of these accounts is to 
show not what the property is worth today for sale purposes, but what 
it represents in the way of cost, or investment, for the institution. 
These accounts indicate how much of the funds entrusted to the insti- 
tution have been and are now locked up in permanent form. It is 
assumed that either the property has been maintained at its original 
efficiency or depreciation has been subtracted from the original cost 
and charged as operating cost, or expense. 

If in any institution the records of cost of permanent equipment 
have not been preserved, a fair valuation of the property for use pur- 
poses (not for sale purposes unless early sale is contemplated) should 
be made. This valuation should have regard to three things — the 
cost of new equipment to do the same or substitute work, the probable 
life (or period of usefulness) of the old equipment, and the compara- 
tive eflSciency of the new and the old. The important fact is to recog- 
nize the principle of valuation, for several things hinge upon it — as 
will appear in the discussion of other accounts. 

The only objection to this plan is the fear that jealous citizens may 
agitate for taxation of tax-exempt institutions, or philanthropically- 
minded persons may grow tight-fisted if they learn how much property 
institutions hold. The committee believes that even under such cir- 
cumstances the figures should be kept on the books, but it may not be 
wisdom to publish them. On the other hand, a campaign of education 
may sometimes be profitably conducted by showing how big an invest- 
ment is necessary to make possible the conduct of a proper public 
service. Greater contributions may result. 

Directly related to these capital accounts are four, sometimes, five, 
operating or expense accounts, and these should be kept separate for 
each department. These give us the following: 

2. A maintenance account should be kept for each department. 



450 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

This should show all expenditures for repairs and replacements to 
keep the property in its original efficiency for service. The sum of 
these is an operating cost. If the property has been more than main- 
tained, so that it has greater efficiency, or longer life, than before, 
the cost of the excess of service-value may be charged to the capital 
account of the department. 

If, on the other hand, repairs and replacements have not kept the 
property up to its old efficiency, this exhaustion of value is still one of 
the operating costs, or expenses, and must be counted. So far as 
cost, or expense, is concerned, it makes no difference whether one has 
replaced the wear and tear or not. The cost is the wear and tear itself. 
For convenience, we call the cost of restored wear and tear "mainte- 
nance," and actual (not restored) wear and tear we call "depreciation." 
A valuation, as already indicated for the capital account, assists in the 
annual answer to the question, has the property been maintained? 
This is to be determined for a department as a whole, and not for each 
item of property — table leg, or sheet, or instrument. If the property 
and equipment of the department as a whole are as efficient (looking 
into the future, i.e., at durability, as well as at the present) as they 
were at the beginning of the period for which the books were made up, 
the property has been maintained and no depreciation need be con- 
sidered. The cost of that maintenance is the charge to maintenance 
account. If, for an absurd but simple example, a building were so 
constructed that one-tenth of the cost were in the roof, one-tenth in 
each of three floors, one-tenth in each of four walls, etc., and it were 
good for ten years only, and you replaced the roof one year (though the 
rest depreciated), and a floor another year (though the rest depreci- 
ated), and so on, there would be no actual depreciation. You might 
go on in this way for a thousand years, always with a building as good 
as it was at the end of the tenth year, with correct showing of values 
and of costs; for though each year nine-tenths were allowed to depreci- 
ate, the tenth-tenth would be entirely replaced and charged to main- 
tenance; and that would be as good, and indeed practically far better, 
than replacing one-tenth of the walls and of the floors, and of the roof, 
each year. 

3. A depreciation account should be kept for each department; 
for, as just indicated, when depreciation has occurred, it must be 
counted as a cost; otherwise a superintendent or manager who ex- 
hausts the equipment will be showing low costs. Depreciation must 
also be deducted from the capital value of the property. 

4. An interest account is desirable for each department. Each 



19 1 2] Report of Committee on Uniform Accounting 451 

department should be charged interest on its equipment. This sounds 
like paying the left pocket from the right — like playing with figures. 
Yet only so can we know whether equipment is profitable. Expensive 
equipment may be put in to save labor; but no institution has a ple- 
thora of funds, and money spent for permanent equipment cannot 
be used for current accomplishment. If departments are not charged 
interest on their equipment, they are left with temptation to save a 
dollar in wages at the expense of two dollars in interest — for wages 
always show and the interest (in that case) will be hidden. Even if 
money is plentiful, neglect to charge interest will represent conditions 
unfairly in a comparison with other institutions unless actually the 
same proportional investment has been made in the various depart- 
ments. 

Obviously a valuation, as suggested for the capital account, is neces- 
sary for the calculation of interest on equipment. The rate of inter- 
est must be determined by local conditions. For our purposes, the 
important things are merely two: first, the recognition of the principle 
of interest as a department cost; second, a statement, in the published 
report, of the amount of interest charged to each department and of 
the rate used. 

5. Departments should be charged for insurance on their property 
for the same reason that they should be charged interest. The use of 
property involves the cost of insuring that property, and a depart- 
ment unwilling to bear the expense should not be granted the right to 
purchase. 

6. If taxes are paid, they should be charged to each department in 
the ratio of the value of the property held. 

Obviously only when valuations of property are preserved on the 
books can one apportion insurance and taxes to the various depart- 
ments. 

So far we have been concerned only with direct costs — costs for 
which we know or can easily tell how much belongs to each department. 
Besides those just considered are the obvious items of salaries, supplies, 
express, stationery, printing, etc. 

Your committee recommends that at least four joint costs — or 
costs common to several departments — be distributed among the 
departments concerned. These follow: 

7. Food — including supplies, cooking, and serving — should be 
charged to departments separately. Food cost should be distributed 
among the departments and should be charged to each on such basis 



452 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

as in each particular case will show the actual cost to the institution of 
food consumed by employees "living in." Only when this is done can 
one tell whether "living in" is cheaper than "living out," and only 
then can one compare institutions operating under different conditions. 
When different types of dietary are served to different classes of 
guests, inmates, or students, the food costs should be kept separate 
for each. 

8. The cost of dormitory or sleeping provision should be determined 
for each department. This should be charged to the departments on 
the basis of space occupied and ser\ace rendered for sleeping accom- 
modations for its employees. The chief items so to be distributed are 
rent, heat, light, laundry, and care of rooms. 

9. The cost of laundry should be charged to each department. This 
is meant to cover both laimdry used by the department itself, as oper- 
ating-room laundry in a hospital, and laundry of employees of the 
department. 

10. Department housing, or space-cost, should be charged to each 
department. This includes rent, light, heat, cleaning, etc., for the 
quarters used by the department for the conduct of its business. 

Your committee recommends that in some cases two items be sub- 
divided within departments, as follows: 

11. The subdivision of pay roll in some departments. When 
several classes of employees, ser\dng different fimctions and receiving 
various rates of wages or salaries, are employed in any department, 
their salaries should be subdivided in such fashion as to make avail- 
able statistical comparisons or cost figures for the different classes of 
work. In a hospital, for example, wages of graduate nurses, of nurses 
in training, and of orderlies, though all in the group of cost of care of 
patients, should be separately reported. 

12. Subdi\dsion of supplies in certain departments. These should 
be divided into classes whenever such subdivision will give statistical 
information of value. Such information is the relative consumption 
of meat, of fish, of dairy products, of cereals, etc., under diflferent con- 
ditions, and the cost of dietetic substitutes for any of these. 

The above twelve recommendations are made by unanimous vote 
of the members of the committee present at this conference. Dr. 
Washburn,* who was unable to be here, has expressed personally to me 
his approval of the principles involved; but he has not had opportu- 
nity to see them expressed in this form. Miss Davis* has been abroad 

* Since the meeting, both Dr. Washburn and Miss Davis have given the re- 
port their full endorsement. 



1912] Report of Committee on Uniform Accounting 453 

for some time, and has not seen this formulation, but has expressed 
her approval of most, if not all, of the principles. 
Respectfully submitted, 

for the Committee 
William Morse Cole, Chairman. 

Forms were then shown indicating how it is possible to keep record of the board 
cost, laundry cost, etc., chargeable to the various departments without burdening 
either the clerical force or the books unduly. The special expense ledger was 
roughly described. All the forms and accounts, with discussion of their purpose 
and use, required to carry out the recommendations of the conmiittee, are in prepa- 
ration for the printers' hands, and will be published in book form. For these, 
however, the chairman is alone responsible, for the committee confined itself to 
the general principles and was not able to extend its activities to cover the vast 
field of details; nor is it possible to print them here. 

In actual practice, the efifort to keep all the details indicated in the report of 
the committee is not nearly so great as appears; for by means of a special expense 
ledger, which has been devised to accompany this plan, comparatively no more 
labor is required to keep a hundred accounts than is commonly put on twenty. 
The hst of accounts below, therefore, is not really at all formidable. Since, more- 
over, each account has a mnemonic symbol, virtually an unmistakable short-hand 
equivalent, the task of making memoranda is sUght. An outline of the accounts, 
with indication of their content, follows: 

CAPITAL ACCOUNTS FOR INSTITUTION PROPERTY. 

Administrative Equipment 

Includes ofiice equipment, such as desks, calculating machines, typewriters, 
telephone switchboards (if owned), etc. 
Special Equipment 

This is intended to cover one or several items according to circumstances. 
In hospitals, e.g., it may comprise seven items, each representing one 
line of activity — as operating room, dispensary. X-ray room, ambulance, 
etc.; in schools and colleges it may comprise items for class-room equip- 
ment, for hbraries, for museums, for laboratories, etc.; in clubs and hostel- 
ries, items for stable, for garage, for golf hnks, for tennis courts, for 
boats, etc. 
Dormitory Equipment 

This should include all equipment for bed rooms, dressing rooms, and other 
rooms such as private bath rooms used for private purposes. It should 
include not only furniture, but linen and crockery. 
Table Equipment 

This should include not only table furniture, but Unen, crockery, and glass- 
ware — but not cooking equipment. 
Household Equipment 

This should include all general furniture in halls, reception rooms, public bath 
rooms, etc., and all equipment for general household use (not for cooking, 
serving, or laundry), such as vacuum cleaners. 



454 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Kitchen Equipment 

This should include cost of ranges, steam tables, boilers (for cooking), ice chip- 
ping machines, potato parers, cooking utensils, etc. 
Laundry Equipment 
Steward's Equipment 

Storage refrigerators, scales, trucks, etc. 
Machinery and Tools 

This should include machinery and tools for general purposes, as boilers, 
engines, motors, ventilating fans, and mechanics' tools. 
Building and Improvements 

This is kept less as an indication of valuation than as an indication of the 
cost to the institution of its property in excess of the native value of the 
ground. Hence it should be debited for the cost of the "improvements," 
commonly so-called, including plumbing and steam fitting. 
Sites and Grounds 

This should register the cost of the land alone. 

EXPENSE ACCOUNTS. 

The letter in the left margin indicates the method of handhng the account. G 
shows that the account represents a group of smaller accounts, and that normally 
entries are made to the group account only in lump sum, once a month. P (pri- 
mary) indicates that entries to these accounts are made in the usual way; but by 
the provision of a special expense ledger and cash book, postings to these accounts 
can be reduced to a few each month. S (secondary) indicates that the account is 
used only as an ultimate destination for transfers, and that therefore entries are 
unlikely to be more than two or three a month. 

Administeation. 
G Administrative Service 

This group covers compensation for those engaged in general administra- 
tion, and includes all services rendered for them in the way of com- 
pensation, such as board, rooms, and laundry. If any considerable 
part of the time of these persons is given to the work of any special 
department named below, the compensation should be apportioned. 
P salaries of those employed in this service 

S board of those employed in this service 

S rooms of those employed in this service 

S laundry of those employed in this service 

This includes not only personal and room laundry of office employees 
hving in the house, but office laundry — towels, for example. 
G Office Expenses 
P express 

S housing 

To this account is carried at monthly intervals the share of house 
expenses, such as fuel, lighting, water, care, etc., which is charge- 
able to this department. 



1912] Report of Committee on Uniform Accounting 455 

P stationery- 

All stationery used, including pens, pencils, mucilage, blank books, 
etc., with the expense of printing — but not including stationery 
and printing for the treasurer's office, nor printing annual reports, 
notices of meetings, or other corporation printing. 
P postage 

Postage for office use only, not including postage on annual reports 
or on notices of corporation meetings. 
S interest 

Interest on Equipment of office 
S depreciation 

Depreciation of equipment of office 
P miscellaneous. 

This may include repairs and replacements of office equipment, and 
insurance on that equipment. 
G Telephone and Telegraph 
P salaries 

If the telephone is served by an employee who does other work also, 
the wages should be apportioned. 
S board 

S rooms 

S laundry 

S housing 

P miscellaneous 

This would include any messenger service for telephone and telegraph 
purposes. 

DEPARTMENTS. 
Special Departments 

These may be few or many, as already indicated in the section on the 
capital accounts. In any case each should be subdivided for its 
various elements. In many departments, several salary accounts 
should be kept. The main subdivisions are likely to run as follows: 
salaries 
board 
rooms 
laundry 
supplies 
express 
housing 
interest 
depreciation 
miscellaneous 
G Housekeeping Department 
P wages of waitresses 

P wages of chambermaids 

P wages of other employees of this department not engaged in the prepa- 

ration or care of food 



456 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

S board of waitresses 

S board of chambermaids 

S board of other employees of this department 

S rooms of waitresses 

S rooms of chambermaids 

S rooms of other employees of this department 

S laundry of waitresses 

S lamidry of chamb rmaids 

S laundry of other employees of this department 

P supplies, table (not food) 

replacements and repairs 
P supplies, dormitory 

replacements and repairs 
P supplies, general 

brooms, brushes, cleaning soap, etc., used in general housekeeping 

and not included elsewhere 
P freight 

S interest on table equipment 

S interest on dormitory equipment 

S interest on general equipment 

S depreciation of table equipment 

S depreciation of dormitory equipment 

S depreciation of general equipment 

G Kitchen Department 
P wages 

S board 

S rooms 

S laundry 

P supplies 

This should cover not only soap and other supplies consumed in the 

kitchen, but replacement and repairs of kitchen untensils. It 

does not include any food or fuel. 
P fuel 

To this account should be debited not only coal, gas, wood, etc., 

used in the kitchen, but also at convenient intervals a charge 

for power for steam at steam tables. 
P express 

S housing 

S interest 

S depreciation 

G Laundry Department 
P wages 

S board 

S rooms 

S laundry 

P supplies 

Not only starch, wax, bleaching agents, soap, etc., but repairs and 

replacements of equipment, but not fuel. 



igi2[ Report of Committee on Uniform Accounting 457 

P fuel 

Not only coal, gas, etc., but also a proportion of power when steam 
or electric power is used. 
P express 

S housing 

S interest 

S depreciation 

P outside laundry work 

G Steward's Department- 
P salaries 

This includes wages of all persons engaged in ordering, receiving, 
checking, storing, and issuing food as purchased, or the propor- 
tionate part of the wages of any persons engaged in part in this 
work. 
S board 

S rooms 

S laundry 

P bread and pastry 

Purchased outside. 
P cream and milk 

Includes ice cream and cheese. 
P butter 

P eggs 

P fresh fruits 

Includes care of fruit-bearing trees on the grounds. 
P canned fruits 

P dried fruits 

P fresh vegetables 

Includes care of vegetable garden. 
P canned vegetables 

P meats, fresh 

P poultry, fresh 

' The discussion of this treatment of food supplies brought out many interesting 
particulars regarding the dietetic value of detailed reports of costs. The chairman 
of the committee, in his previous reports, had dwelt on the value of great subdi- 
vision of food costs, so that both the sort of diet furnished and the sort of prices 
paid might be indicated — for otherwise poor food and high prices might show the 
same costs as good food and low prices. The final judgment of the conference led 
to the acceptance of a subdivision of food costs more than twice as great as that 
which the committee, in spite of its desire for great subdivision, had beUeved pos- 
sible to get the conference to adopt. The following classes were added (the foods 
entering these classes, of course, to be taken from the larger groups first indicated) : 
flour; breakfast foods and other table cereals; condensed milk; cream; ice cream; 
cheese; storage eggs; egg powders and other egg preparations; fruits preserved; 
fruit juices; meats canned; meats smoked or dried; poultry canned; fish canned; 
fish pickled, smoked, or dried; sugar, molasses, syrups, and honey; nuts and nut 
products; tea and coffee. All cooking and table fats, including table oils, were put 
into the same account with butter. 



458 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

P fish, fresh 

P groceries and canned goods not enumerated 

P ice 

P miscellaneous 

Supplies not food, and repairs and replacements of equipment. 

P express 

S housing 

S interest 

S depreciation 

General House and Property Expenses. 
P Taxes 

On property occupied. Taxes on other property should be charged to 
the income of that property, as debits to the income account of that 
property, or, if the property does not produce income, to general 
income account. 
P Electric Lighting 
P Gas 

P Fuel, Oil, and Waste 
P Water 
P Ice 

The amount is later distributed in part to the Steward's Department. 
S Power 

This account should be charged for any power used for general house 
purposes, such as elevators and heating. 
P Rent 
P Maintenance of Buildings 

To this account should be charged the cost of repairs only, but not repairs 
of plimibing and steam fitting. Additions and improvements should 
be charged to capital account. 
P Depreciation of Buildings 

Depreciation of any improvements, including plumbing and steam fitting. 
P Care of Grounds 

This includes cost of snow shoveling, lawn mowing, and care of flower 
beds. 
P Maintenance of Machinery and Tools 

Replacements and repairs only. Additions should be charged to capital 
account. 
P Depreciation of Machinery and Tools 
P Maintenance of Plumbing and Steamfitting 
G Boiler Room Compensation 

This account covers compensation of engineers and firemen. It should 
be credited for any work done by these men in care of grounds, repairs 
of buildings, etc., and the appropriate accounts should be debited. 
P wages 

S board 

S rooms 

S laimdry 



1912] Report of Committee on Uniform Accounting 459 

P Insurance 

This should include only that portion of insurance that falls within the 
period. When insurance is paid for longer terms, the excess should 
be charged to prepaid insurance, and at proper intervals, as the 
insurance accrues, should be transferred to this account. To this 
account should be charged only insurance on property used by the 
institution. Insurance on property held as investment should be 
charged to the income of the investment, or to general income if the 
property bears no income 
G Miscellaneous 
P express 

On any general house and property equipment 
P miscellaneous 

Items pertaining to house and property not elsewhere provided for 
and not administrative, professional, or departmental, should 
be charged here. If, for example, the institution provides local 
transportation for visitors and employees and does not collect 
enough from passengers to meet expenses, the deficit should be 
charged to this account. 
S Interest B 

On improvements — buildings and grounds 
S Interest M 

On machinery and tools. 



WASTE ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS AND BASIC DIETARY 
RATION TABLES.^ 

Charles S. Pitcher. 

Why should a waste accounting system be used? 

It checks over-issues of food to dining rooms. 

It causes dining room employees to serve the food more carefully. 

It prevents dining room employees from throwing an amazing 
amount of good food into the garbage cans, as is shown by tabulations 
made of the waste reports. 

It shows which are well-managed kitchens and dining rooms and 
which are poorly-managed kitchens and dining rooms. 

It gives kitchen and dining room employees an incentive to do good 
work, as the waste reports show which are the efficient employees and 
which are the poor ones, and makes it possible to commend the one 
and criticise the other. 

It teaches the kitchen and dining room employees to handle food 
supplies in a careful and economical manner. 

It is beneficial to the inmates of an institution because there is a 
minimum of waste in the kitchen and dining room operations, more 
care in cooking and serving, and, as the waste is lessened, more food 
to eat. 

If the food supplies saved are not needed to improve the dietary 
of the inmates, there will be a reduced expenditure for food supplies. 

Tlie waste accounting system is better than the inspection of garbage 
cans. It insures the return from the dining rooms to the kitchens 
of good food which is left over from the meals. Under the old gar- 
bage-can inspection system this is usually thrown into the garbage, 
as it is some trouble for the dining room attendants to return it to 
the kitchens, and the kitchen staff do not encourage the return of 
such food as it is troublesome to care for and later on to utilize. 

The weighing of the "waste not usable" (garbage) is a means of 
determining whether or not the inmates are receiving sufficient food. 

^ Read by title at the Administration Section of the American Home Economics 
Association, Lake Placid, N. Y., June, 191 2. 

460 



19 1 2] Waste Accounting Systems 461 

The weighing of the "usable food which can be utilized by the 
kitchens" (good food) is an additional and very effective means of 
determining this question. 

One who has inspected garbage-cans to any extent knows that 
often there are found meat, potatoes, puddings, bread, etc. which 
appear to have been good when they were thrown into the cans. 
The charge is frequently made that institution kitchens and dining 
rooms are so wasteful that a number of families could be provided for 
with the good food thrown away. 

The inspection of garbage-cans depends upon the opinion formed by 
the person making the inspection, and as the time goes on this tends 
to grow lax and ineffective. The inspector depends solely upon what 
he can see. With the waste accounting system everything is separated 
as far as it can be, and weighed. This gives a complete record from 
which comparisons can be made of the waste from different kitchens. 

The foregoing general discussion is based on a study of waste account- 
ing carried on in a large public institution in New York State. Some 
details of this work follow. 

The use of the waste accounting blanks was begun December 30, 
1 9 ID, and for the purpose of illustrating the waste accounting system 
the following summaries of the reports of one of the kitchens will 
be given covering a period of six months beginning July i, 191 1. 
Similar summaries were prepared for other kitchens at the same 
institutions but are not included in this brief account of the work. 

"A. B. Kitchen." as it is designated, cooks for about iioo women, 
employees and patients. The food is sent out to eight small dining 
rooms of from 40 to 60 persons each, and two large dining rooms, one 
of 300 persons and the other of 350, the numbers changing from time 
to time. 

The summaries of "A. B. Kitchen" which follow are particularly 
interesting on account of the large number of dining rooms supplied 
from this kitchen, the difference in size, and the fact that the food for 
eight of the dining rooms is taken to them with a horse and wagon. 

The first table relates to the "usable food" returned by the dining 
rooms to the kitchen. The amount saved is amazing, for before the 
institution of the waste accounting system, these dining rooms were 
so remote that it was seldom that any usable food was ever returned. 



462 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Usable food which could he utilized, "A. B. Kitcheti." 



! 

MONTH. j MEAT. 


BONES. 


BREAD. 


CEREAL 

BREAKFAST 

FOOD. 


POTATOES. 


VEGE- 
TABLES. 


RICE. 


MISCEL- 
LANEOUS. 


July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 


lbs. 
649 
619 
756 
855 
891 
1,067 


lbs. 
1,751 
1,458 
1,641! 
1,871 
1,797 
1,629 


lbs. 
10 

41 

S 

86 

292 


lbs. 
164 
260 

45° 
412 

445 
357 


lbs. 
49 
100 

298! 

347 
328 

471I 


lbs. 

50 
277 
202 


lbs. 

156 
103 


lbs. 

26 
234 


Total . 


4,837 


10,147! 


434 


2,088 


1,594 


529 


259 


260 


Monthly 
average. . . 


8o6| 


1,691! 


72! 


348 


265§ 


881 43I 


43* 



The waste not usable at "A. B. Kitchen," which is shown in the 
following table, is high on account of the large number of small dining 
rooms and the fact that considerable liquids, tea, coffee, soups, milk 
from cereals, etc. , were placed in the plate scraps. Since the period 
covered by this tabulation the dining rooms have reduced the weight 
of the plate scraps very much by giving closer attention to eliminating 
properly the liquids. 

Waste not usable, "A. B. Kitchen." 



MONTH. 


PLATE 
SCRAPS. 


BREAD. 


POTA- 
TOES. 


VEGE- 
TABLES. 


FISH- 
BONES. 


PUDDING 

AND 
CEREAL. 


CORNCOBS 

FROM 

GREEN CORN. 


CEREAL 

BREAKFAST 

FOOD 


July 


lbs 

8,081 
8,576 
7,992 
7,932 
8,242 
8,463 


lbs. 

2,258 
1,970 
2,050 
1,823 
1,758 
1,350 


lbs. 

1,678 
1,518 
1,286 

1,093 
1,003 

8S4 


lbs. 

262 

374 
355 
448 
746 
549 


lbs. 
124 

131 

127 

130 

96 

77 


lbs. 
377 

492 

357 
459 
451 
542 


lbs. 

396 
851 


lbs. 


August 

September 

October 

November 

December 


lOI 


Total 


49,286 


11,209 


7,432 


2,734 


685 


2,678 


1,247 


lOI 


Monthly 
average. . . 


8,214! 


i,868i 


1,238! 


455f 


1 146 


446! 


207I 


i6f 



After the waste accounting system had been in force in this institu- 
tion for about half a year the kitchens were inspected. The lessened 
waste which was observed and the general improvement noted are 
directly ascribable to the waste accounting system. 



1912] Waste Accounting System 463 

The checking up of the waste reports had been purposely delayed 
as a test to see how well the chef, head cooks, etc., could operate the 
waste system without constant super\-ision on the part of the steward, 
and it was a satisfaction to find that they had been able to operate the 
system well in the old kitchen, and that the two new kitchens had 
been very successful in instituting and using it. 

There seems to be a general feeling among the head cooks that the 
system is good, that it saves supplies and causes unser\-ed food to be 
returned to the kitchens which formerly had been thrown into the 
garbage cans and lost. They think, also, that it causes more careful 
service of food in the dining rooms and that it aids the cooks in sending 
the proper amount of cooked food to the dining rooms. 

The basic dietary ration tables are working in an excellent manner 
in all of the kitchens and are of great assistance in the proper distribu- 
tion of supplies. 

The variation of the waste returned from the dining rooms to the 
kitchens due to weather conditions is a matter which is hard to deter- 
mine. The natural assumption would be that during warm weather 
there would be more waste than during cold weather, as a person's 
appetite is not supposed to be as good in summer as in colder 
weather. But during warm weather the inmates are more in the open 
air, which creates an appetite, and also such vegetables as lettuce, 
string beans, peas, radishes, spinach, etc., are in season and largely 
used. As these do not weigh ver>' much and are relished by the 
patients, there is a tendency to offset any increase in waste due to 
warm weather, if such increase exists. During cold weather carrots, 
beets, turnips, cabbage, etc., are served as a second vegetable to a 
large extent, and as the inmates grow tired of them and as they are 
heavy in weight, the weight of the waste increases. 

The total weight of the waste not usable at the kitchen designated 
as "Group i Kitchen" was as follows, for the months in 191 1 covered 
by the reports: July, 7154 pounds; August, 7082 pounds + 2750 
pounds corn cobs from green corn; September, 7000 pounds + 498 
pounds corn cobs; October, 7574 pounds; November, 7876 pounds; 
and December, 7938 pounds. 

"The proof of the pudding is in the eating" and from the recorded 
data it is clear that many hundred dollars worth of food supplies have 
been saved and turned back into the food ration of the institution. 

The temperature from July to December, 191 1, as reported by the 
District Weather Bureau at New York City is given below. 



464 



The Journal of Home Economics 
Monthly temperatures, Jtily to December, igii. 



[December 



July 

August 

September 
October. . . 
November 
December. 



MAXIMUM. 


83 


6° 


78 


5 


73 


5 


61 


7 


48 


5 


45 


5 



68.4° 
65.0 

S9-6 
49.6 
34-4 
32.9 



76.0° 

71.8 

66.6 

55-6 

41.4 

39-2 



The data quoted indicate that the waste food is greater during the 
colder months. 

The nature of the food served at a meal has a large influence on the 
amount of waste which will be returned to a kitchen. For instance, 
when potatoes are served unpeeled in the large dining room and in the 
employees' dining room at " Group i," the skins returned to the kitchen 
weigh from 50 to 60 pounds. When green corn on the cob was served 
to all of the dining rooms supplied by this kitchen on September 2, 
191 1, the cobs returned to the kitchen weighed 252 pounds. 

At "C. D. Kitchen" cucumber skins weighed 27 pounds, musk- 
melon rinds 50 pounds and watermelon rinds 120 pounds. When 
pork is served, there is more waste owing to the fatness of the meat, 
than when beef, mutton, and veal are served. 

The foregoing statements serve to call attention to some of the 
elements which must be considered with reference to the problem of 
dining room waste. 

How to begin the use of the waste accounting system is a matter 
worth some special consideration. 

In places where the system has not been used, it would be best to 
institute its use by first weighing all waste not usable, making one 
entry of it under "plate scraps" on the report blanks, and every few 
days as the kitchen and dining room employees grow accustomed to 
the new order of things to subdivide the waste until the system is in 
full operation. Great care should be given to determining the usable 
food which can be utilized by the kitchens, and this should be entered 
on the report blanks. 

The meat should be trimmed from the bones returned from the 
dining rooms to the kitchens before the bones are placed in the stock 
kettle; unless this is done there will be a large waste of meat. 



19 1 2] Waste Accounting Systems 465 

Some of the difficulties which may be met with in using the waste 
accounting system should be pointed out. 

The weights may be faked as is true in other records. This can be 
prevented as the waste reports will bear certain "ear marks," and after 
it is found that it can be detected, the employees will stop such prac- 
tices. It should be repeatedly impressed on everyone at frequent 
intervals, that the weighing must be accurately done and the reports 
carefully kept. 

The dining room employees, unless reminded frequently, will allow 
Uquids to get into the plate scraps, which increase the weight and 
cause it to appear that too much food is served on the plates. 
This can be prevented by two persons taking up the plate scraps, one 
dumping the liquids into a container, and the other dumping the solids 
into another container. Milk from cereals, tea, coffee, soups, water, 
etc., should not be put into the plate scraps, as plate scraps should 
consist only of the solids left on the plates, not separated and classified 
under other headings. 

After the meat is carved in the dining rooms or kitchens, there is, 
particularly if a roast is served, a certain amount of meat left on the 
bones which is suitable for hash and stew meat. Unless care is exer- 
cised, however, this meat will not be saved for this purpose, but the 
bones, meat and all, will be put in the stock kettle, causing a loss in 
the food ration. The dining room employees may also throw good 
bread, cereals, meats, potatoes, puddings, etc., into the plate scraps, 
which can be prevented by the cooks in the kitchens as they discover 
this when the weighing is done. 

When the dining rooms are remote from the kitchens, it is more 
difficult to operate the system, but the saving is greater from such 
dining rooms, as good food under the waste accounting system is 
saved, whereas under the garbage-can inspection system it is usually 
dumped into the cans. If the kitchen and dining room are located 
together, with a ser\'ing room between, the waste accounting system 
operates more easily, though the saving is not quite so large. Even 
under favorable conditions I have found large losses of good food 
occurring, due to the pressure of work incident to meal times, and unless 
there is some way of checking up, there are sure to be continual losses. 

The frequent changing of dining room employees affects the dining 
room servace materially, and to prevent this and to promote economy, 
they should receive as high wages as other employees. Where large 



466 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

dining rooms are in operation there should be a well paid dining room 
attendant in charge, possessing ability in this line of work, as many 
times such an attendant's wages can be saved, and the dining room 
service improved also. 

Much of the trouble experienced in dining room management is 
due to the feeling that dining room employees should not receive as 
much compensation as other employees. This is a wrong idea, for 
if good dining room service is expected the employees must be experi- 
enced, and to keep experienced employees in the dining rooms they 
should receive the same pay as other employees. No matter how well 
the kitchen and dining rooms are equipped, if they are not manned 
properly, the equipment will suffer and the service be unsatisfactory. 
No one would think of putting an expensive piece of machinery in 
charge of some one who could not take proper care of it. Why, then, 
should a dining room be placed in charge of a person to whom so little 
wages are being paid, that there is no incentive to continue in dining 
room work long enough to understand it? If good service is desired 
something must be done to furnish an incentive for the employees to 
give good service. One cannot expect to take all the while and to 
give nothing in return. 

Basic dietary ration tables. — For many 3^ears there have been tables 
in use for the calculation of interest, income on investments, wage 
tables, lumber tables, etc., which are published in different forms for 
the convenience of persons who make calculations of this nature. 
The basic dietary tables are the application of this idea to the issuing 
of food from the storeroom to the kitchens for preparation for serving 
in the dining rooms, and the system deserves discussion, as, used 
together with the waste accounting systems, it makes for economy. 

To illustrate, the basic dietary tables prepared a short time ago for 
the kitchen designated as " Group 3 Kitchen" are given. This kitchen 
serves about 100 male hospital cases, 100 male working cases, 149 
non-working male cases, and 40 employees. The census is made 
each week and the requisitions on the storeroom are made in accord- 
ance with the census, which does away with a common, though objec- 
tional practice, which usually prevails in institutions, i.e., to fix upon 
a certain amount to be issued to each kitchen. Under this old system 
the same amount was issued to the kitchen, neglecting any notice of 
increase or decrease in population, thus causing an over-supply or 
under-supply of food to the kitchen. 



I9I2] 



Waste Accounting Systems 



467 



The tables which follow show the quantity required per meal for 
two groups and can be made out to cover as many items as desired. 

Similar tables were prepared for the other groups supplied from this 
kitchen, but are not quoted in this summary as the data given are 
beUeved to be sufl5cient for purposes of illustration. 

It can readily be seen that after the tables have been prepared, it 
is as easy to order one quantity as another, and as the quantity to 
be ordered is governed by the census for the week the same proportion 
of food is suppUed to the kitchen month in and month out. The menu 
should be made out one week in advance and a copy supplied to the 
kitchens, dining rooms, and storeroom, and from this menu the head 
cook in charge of the kitchen can make out his requisitions on the 
storeroom, using the quantities that will be required to serve the 
meals called for on certain dates as shown by the basic dietary tables. 
The chef and the storekeeper, or their representatives, check these 
requisitions with the basic dietary tables in order to see that the right 
quantity is called for and that the articles are in stock. It is important 
that the dining rooms have a copy of the menu, particularly if they 
are remote from the kitchen, so that they will know in advance what 
dishes to have ready for ser\ing the meal. 

Detailed information relative to certain features of this subject 
which are not covered in this paper, as well as certain information 
relative to the waste accounting system, will be found in a paper 
read before the Conference of Stewards of New York State Institu- 
tions Reporting to the Fiscal Supervisor of State Charities, held at 
the capitol at Albany, N. Y., October 24 and 25, 191 1. 

Group 3 — Kitchen. Dietary ration, breakfast, employees and patients. 



NtTMBER SERVED PER ITEAX. 



FOODS SERVED. 



390 


410 


430 


4SO 


470 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


22^ 


24 


25 


26 


27 


22^ 


24 


25 


36 


27 


23i 


24§ 


26 


27 


28 


23i 


24i 


26 


27 


28 


i8f 


I9§ 


20§ 


21 


22 


24i 


25 


27 


29 


30 



490 



Commeal . . . 

Hominy 

Rolled oats. . 
Wheat flakes. 

Rice 

Farina 

Eggs 



lbs. 
29 
29 
30 
30 
225 

32 



0.929 
o. 222 
0.980 
0.980 
0.761 
1. 014 



(One egg for unemployed patients; two eggs for em- 
j ployed patients; three eggs for employees. 



468 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Croup 3 — Kitchen. Dietary rations, one meal, employees only. 



FOODS SERVED. 



Cold meat 

Mutton chops 

Ham 

Beefsteak 

Corn beef for hash. 
Fresh beef for hash. 
Hamburg steak. . . . 

Roast beef 

Roast mutton 

Mutton stew 

Beef stew 

Macaroni 

Peaches 

Prunes 

Apples 

Rice 

Tapioca 

Gelatine 

Cheese 

Sago 

Canned salmon. ... 

Salt fish 

Eggs (dozen) 

/Bacon 

\Eggs (dozen) 

/Bacon 

\Liver 

Liver only 

Potatoes — unpeeled 
(bushel) 

/Ham 

\Eggs (dozen) 



NUUBF.R SERVED PER MEAL. 



SO 



lbs. 

27 

34^ 

24§ 

21 
i8| 

17 
31 
31 

37 
Z1 

4l 

9 

9 



121 
16 
61 
10 
142 
i7f 



17* 



60 



lbs. 
32 
29 
29 
16 
18 

IS 
21 

37 
37 
38 
21 

si 

io§ 
6 
3i 

7 

8 

4 

3 

142 
25 
14 



17 
302 



70 



lbs. 

36 

34 

34 

39 

i7i 

17I 

2S 

43 
42 

38 

38 

6 

23 
13 

3h 

4 
4 
I 

4i 
3i 

17 

29 

"i 

IS 

III 

IS 
20 

332 



26 



80 



lbs. 
43 
39 
39 
36 
20 
20 
29 
49 
49 
43 
43 
7 
IS 
15 
loi 

4^ 

4^ 
i 

8 

s 

4 

195 
33 
19 
17 
13^ 
17 
2,2, 
36 



27 
13I 



90 



/6j 
49 
48 
46 
37 
232 

22^ 

2>3 
56 
36 
48 
49 

81 
18^ 
i6i 
18 

S 

S 

li 

6 

4l 
33 
57 

2l| 

IS 
IS 

13 
16 
29 



31 

IS 



lbs. 
S4 
SI 
51 
41 
25 
38 
2,7 
62 
62 
S4 
S4 

9 
18 
18 
13 

S§ 

s4 

li 

61 

5 

24 
42 
24 
31 
i6| 

31 
29 

34 



T2 



I6I 



/65. 

61 
S8 
56 
4S 
27 
37 
41 
69 
69 
61 

31 
10 

19 
19 
14 

6 

6 

i| 

7 

Si 
27 
26 
26i 

23 
i6f 

23 
31 
36 



38 



PER CAPITA. 



8.9S8 
7 833 
7 633 
S-7I4 
3.918 
3.916 

S-59S 

16.971 

16.071 

6.952 

6.652 

1-343 
2.792 

2-793 
2.041 
0.695 
0.905 
0-233 
1 . 119 
0.783 
4.023 
6.24 
3 each 

3-3S7 

2 each 

3-357 
4.476 

5-595 

8. 131 
5 -595 

3 each 



BETTER DRESS STANDARDS.^ 
Mrs. John C. Hessler. 

The problem of comfort in dress has already been solved, as the 
result of a most interesting evolution during the last thirty or forty 
years. I recall that, in my girlhood, the ideal waist measured from 
20 to 21 inches. Today, in recent notes from Paris, we are told that 
French dress-makers give as the correct size of the ideal waist 26 
inches, the fine and generous proportions of a Greek statue. 

Built on the foundation of an undistorted body, woman's dress is 
today structually good and artistic. It follows sincerely the lines of the 
body it clothes. Sleeves conform to the natural shape of the arm, 
bodices are easy and comfortable. Collars are comfortably high or 
can be omitted. Skirts are usually wide enough for freedom of motion. 
Shoes of sensible shape are on the market. 

Since we can clothe ourselves comfortably in every particular, what 
more is required? The question of woman's dress is not only one of 
physical comfort, but also of that gracious harmony and beauty which 
gives pleasure to the beholder and expresses in visible form an inner 
beauty and orderliness of spirit. 

The question of dress cannot be separated from artistic standards. 
The Puritan cannot lastingly prohibit beauty in costume. A love 
of beauty grows in humanity along with its spiritual growth, and as 
one of the spiritual elements of life it should have its part in the fur- 
nishing of the home and in the clothing of the family. 

Beauty in woman's dress lies in the attractiveness of material both 
in fabric and color, in the grace, continuity, and consistency of line, 
of the design of garments, and their adaptability to the wearer and 
her needs. It docs not lie in complicated decoration. We look to 
dress, and rightly, to enhance natural beauty and to conceal natural 
defects. These standards of beauty are not pecuniary standards. 
They are for rich and poor alike. But instead of beautiful clothes 
most of us are satisfied with fashionable clothes. We have accepted 
the spurious substitute, fashion, when we went to buy beauty. 

' Part of a paper presented at the biennial meeting of the General Federation 
of Women's Clubs, San Francisco, 191 2. 

469 



470 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

In this day of the marvelous intellectual and social growth of woman, 
it is a matter for wonder that so many still unreasoningly obey fashion. 
Fashion grew in the proud desire of the royal princess — or the money 
princess — to produce by her dress a sharp distinction between herself 
and inferior mortals. These inferior mortals persistently imitated 
her as quickly as they could, to destroy this distinction. But the 
growth of intelligence and of a more sympathetic humanity is slowly 
remedying this. That it has lasted so long is because the fashion 
mania has been fostered. Women, through their love of change, 
have been exploited commercially, by means of the great foreign dress- 
makers who make the styles. 

Few in America know that the inspiration of styles for the last 
year and a half or two years were the wonderful costumes of the Im- 
perial Russian ballet, which has been appearing in the great cities 
of Europe. For them, Bakst, one of the greatest decorative artists 
of any time, staged Cleopatra, Scheherazade, and Narcisse. Dress 
designers seized with avidity the Egyptian, Oriental, and Greek sug- 
gestions of his costumes and the result is the chaos of present day 
fashions. Bakst's women are large waisted and many of them wear 
sandals. As a result, styles are large waisted and fashionable shoes 
are shown that are almost heelless. From Bakst come Oriental 
designs, primitive effects (derived partly from the Greek), the new 
cut of the peasant waist, the Greek mode of hair dressing, large meshed 
nets — adapted from Cleopatra — strange tall head dresses — ^which in- 
spired recent miUinery — and a host of details. They were designed to 
express physical movement and the voluptuous emotions or immoral 
and decadent scenic productions, and performed their office with artistic 
audacity and success. Translated through the dressmakers, they 
have lost much of their beauty — which after all, was largely in the 
ensemble — though they have lost little of their suggestiveness. 

Changes in fashion result in tremendous economic waste, first, 
through the use of perishable material, second, through the discarding 
of clothing which has not begun to wear out. 

The articles discarded because out of fashion were produced by 
labor. The new garments which take their places are also the product 
of labor. Discarding them results in needless labor. It is folly to 
say that these extravagances give work to some one. Every moment 
spent in labor which is unproductive of the real needs of the world 
is worse than wasted. It should be turned to constructive uses. The 
women who work in trades which minister to the waste of fashion 



igi2] Better Dress Standards 471 

should be freed to rear the neglected children who tug at their skirts. 
An appalling number of the white slaves of society are slaves to the 
frivolity of women. 

But, after all, the greatest loss in dress is not the loss of money, 
great as it is, or even the injustice to the worker. It is the loss of 
womanly dignity and stability of character which accompany the 
dissipation of time, labor, and thought which are the result of false 
standards. 

I believe too, that all womankind, which, as Miss Addams points 
out in her new book, suffers as a whole from the degradation of indi- 
viduals, is suffering definite moral degradation from prevalent fash- 
ions. This has come about so gradually that many of us do not real- 
ize how our standards of personal modesty have been blunted. We 
women have not realized that we have been watching, or, with inno- 
cence of evil intent, taking part in the breaking down of barriers 
between virtue and hcentiousness. This is the very serious reason 
why the question of dress should be treated so frankly. 

The problem of the increasing immorahty of young girls is caus- 
ing growing concern to those who know of it. Shameful proof of 
the reality of this situation is startling educators. A great scientist — 
a physician, a cosmopolitan — when asked what he believed to be 
the cause, replied: "I believe that it is due, in large part, to present- 
day dress. And their mothers are wearing the same sort of clothes," 
he replied, and went on to say, "I am ashamed of our countrywomen 
when I go abroad. They dress as no decent woman dresses in Europe. 
They go to Paris and see in public places, beautiful women driving 
in elegant carriages, wearing lovely and conspicuous gowns. Doubt- 
less they think that they are seeing the great ladies of the city, for 
they hasten to the shops and buy similar garments. They do not 
reahze that these beauties are the demi-monde and that the clothes 
they bought were made for the demi-monde — and for gullible Amer- 
icans. No French gentleman would allow his wife to wear them." 

We can only hope that the madly accelerated speed at which fash- 
ion moves today is rushing toward destruction of its empire. As 
women think for themselves along other lines they are learning to 
think independently concerning questions of dress. We cannot expect 
any revolutionary change at present, any "throwing off the chains 
of fashion." An increasing number are applying tests of common 
sense to offered styles. As the women of this number are among the 
intellectual and social leaders of their sex their influence has been 
and will be felt increasingly. 



472 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

A certainty of reform lies in a better system of education of our 
young people. Boys and girls should be taught in the schools how 
to choose textiles, shoes, and other articles of dress and learn to be 
intelligent consumers. This instruction should be given before the 
high school is reached and should be continued throughout high school 
and college. 

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT AND PRESENT STATUS OF 
THE SCHOOL FEEDING MOVEMENT.^ 

Louise Stevens Bryant. 

University of Pennsylvania. 

When three years ago a group of us began to study the provision of 
meals in elementary schools, we supposed that it would take about six 
weeks to complete the study and prepare a short monograph of whose 
length fifty pages seemed a fair estimate. As to this brevity we were 
soon disillusioned when we found references in the school hygiene 
journals to the twenty-fifth anniversary of the foimding of school 
lunches in this city, and the assumption by that city of work carried 
on for forty years past by private philanthropy. In the end, we found 
we had to work back over a century to get back to the beginning of the 
movement. 

The actual historical beginning was made when the city of Mimich 
established People's Soup Kitchens. These kitchens were a part of the 
campaign initiated by the pioneer social worker. Count Rumford, in 
his world-'wide campaign against vagrancy. They were designed to 
meet the need of the people of all ages, not only of the single group of 
vagrants, and from the first schools were encouraged to send groups 
of school children to them for a warm meal at noon. It is significant 
that this work was associated in the beginning with the larger industrial 
problem and that it antedated compulsory education. The work, 
though not organized for many years, was never discontinued, and in 
1876 had become so definite a part of the school equipment that the 
city passed a law requiring all school buildings to include a kitchen 
and dining room. 

France. — In France the work commenced in 1849, when a local bat- 
talion of the army stationed at Paris found that there was a surplus in 

1 Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 



1912] Development and Status of School Feeding 473 

their treasury at the end of the year. The men decided to use this 
money for the general good instead of keeping it for themselves, and 
looked about for a way to do this. At that time schools were provided 
at public expense but there was no compulsory school law. Text 
books were not free and sending their children to school was an expense 
beyond the means of many families. The soldiers finally decided to 
use the money to help their neighbors' children get a schooling, so 
they presented it to the school with the request that this be made the 
nucleus of further appropriations for this purpose. The "Caisse des 
Ecoles" (school fund) gradually spread to other districts in the city, 
and in 1882 when the national compulsory school law was passed, one 
of its sections required the establishment of such a school fund in every 
school district throughout France. There was no stipulation as to 
the use of this school fund beyond the general one that it was to be 
used toward making the school more effective. From the beginning 
a large part of the funds has been dedicated to the school restaurants 
or canlines solalaire. At present over 1200 communities report that 
school money is used to support the cantines and this work in a modi- 
fied form extends to the rural district. The work in France is thor- 
oughly democratic. All classes of children attend the lunches, together 
with teachers and higher school officials. The school restaurant is 
so much a matter of course that, just as in the case of medical inspec- 
tion, it was given httle publicity until other countries investigated 
for their own uses. 

England. — In England it was Victor Hugo who, in 1866, by furnish- 
ing meals to the country children in the neighborhood of his home in 
the Isle of Guernsey, started the charitable pro\ision of meals to school 
children which, during the next fifty years was extended widely over 
the country. Little official notice was taken of this work in spite of 
local effort until the events of the Boer War. In 1902, Frederick 
Maurice, surgeon-general, made the startling announcement that 
only two out of every five men who applied for admission to the 
army could be admitted. The three were rejected because o! physical 
imfitness. 

Whether or not this statement was accurate, it served to rouse the 
country to a high pitch of excitement and for four years England was 
the scene of a most searching self-analysis that any country has known. 
It was rumored abroad that the English race was deteriorating; that 
the end of her supremacy was begun, and that she was repeating the 
history of Rome. ParUament appointed commission after commis- 



474 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

sion to investigate these rumors. The first was charged to look into 
the condition of physical training in the schools with the idea that 
perhaps the gymnastics were at fault. This commission, after examin- 
ing the physical training from the universities down to the pubUc 
schools, discovered that this was not the case. The extent and char- 
acter of the work were adequate but in the public elementary schools 
at least, the children themselves were poor material to train. One of 
the main reasons reported was that they were weak and undeveloped 
because of malnutrition. Accordingly the commission recommended 
that any reorganization of physical training in the schools should 
include the provision of food, either supplied by private funds or at 
public expense. 

The next year a second commission was appointed to inquire into 
the causes of the alleged physical deterioration of the race. This 
commission reported that the causes were not evidently hereditary. 
In overwhelming majority the children born in each generation were 
sound, but the conditions of life were such that this initial strength 
was soon undermined. Again the factor of malnutrition was noted 
and it was declared that of the three factors affecting national vitality, 
housing, occupation and feeding, the most important was feeding. 
This commission in turn recommended school lunches as a partial 
remedy. The entire question was thrashed over again by a third 
commission appointed to investigate the extent of charitable school 
feeding in the country and to evaluate its effectiveness. This commis- 
sion found that although widespread, private provision was totally 
inadequate and indicated that the school itself must assume responsi- 
bility and control if this was to be made adequate. Shortly after the 
report of the third commission a bill was presented in parliament that 
the school authorities might appropriate money for school lunches, 
and after a fourth commission had spent a year in investigation dur- 
ing which time the conditions disclosed by former commissions were 
emphasized, the bill became a law. A present there are about 150 
towns pro\ading wholly or in part for school lunches in accordance 
with the provision of the act. In London alone over 55,000 children 
are served daily. It is significant that the Provision of Meals Act 
was the first piece of legislation growing out of the fear of national 
deterioration. It preceded the Compulsory Medical Inspection Act, 
the codification and revision of all legislation dealing with children 
known as the Children's Act, the foundation of the National Anthro- 
pometric Survey, old age pensions, the minimum wage board and the 



igi2] Development and Status of School Feeding 475 

National Society of Eugenics — all steps toward national conservation 
in England. At present the work of school feeding is under the direc- 
tion of the medical department of the national education board. 
Every child in the schools must be examined by the school medical 
officer and his nutrition is made the basis of the report on his physical 
condition. 

Scotland. — In Scotland, which has its own school feeding law, the 
work is in a sense compulsory as the local educational authorities are 
required to see that any child reported as underfed is cared for. 

Germany. — Within the last twenty years in Germany the work of 
school feeding has progressed largely on the basis of scientific experi- 
ment. Begun in Munich, as before mentioned, the work developed 
throughout the country as the result of independent initiative arising 
out of local need. The first national consideration was given when, 
in 1890, a conference of vacation colonists met and discussed means of 
making the effect of their work last through the whole year instead of 
a few weeks in summer. It was generally agreed that one of the main 
troubles was that the children returned to bad feeding and the result 
of the country outing was soon lost. The conference dispersed with 
the idea of investigating this particular problem, and during the next 
six years investigation and propaganda were carried on. In 1898 the 
Social Democrats introduced a bill in Reichstag providing for school 
feeding in all cities. This bill was defeated on the ground that it 
would mean a swift exodus from the country districts thereby increas- 
ing the congestion problem. When England passed her act, Germany 
became apprehensive of her own condition and since it was estimated 
that 46 per cent of the drafted conscripts were unable to pass the phys- 
ical tests one of the major causes being, as in England, long continued 
malnutrition, the subject of school feeding has become a burning one. 
There is now agitation for compulsory legislation. The thoroughness 
with which the matter is being considered is indicated by the fact that 
during a single investigation records were made of the daily food of 
over 500,000 children and the causes of 30,000 cases of malnutrition 
were exhaustively enumerated. Other features of the German work 
are experimental investigation into children's food needs, and the 
elaboration of school menus to meet the standard requirements. At 
present one-half of all the cities have municipal or semi-municipal pro- 
\ision and four out of five of the cities with over 100,000 inhabitants. 
It is significant that the work is best done where child labor laws are 
best enforced. Though the mo\ement has developed in practically 



476 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

all the great European countries, and though each country presents 
its characteristic features, it is sufficiently well illustrated by Germany, 
France, and England. To summarize. — Begun over a century ago and 
promoted with the various objects of charitable relief, encouraging 
school attendance, promotion of hygiene, and national welfare, the 
work now is receiving national recognition and is subject to national 
legislation in France, Bavaria, Denmark, Switzerland, Holland, and 
Great Britain, and is national in scope with support from the munici- 
palities in Germany, Italy, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Austria and 
Belgium. Beginnings have also been made in Spain, Russia and the 
United States. 

Coming to the United States we find the work developed beyond the 
simply local only within the last three years. From small scattered 
attempts the work has spread to nearly forty cities ranging as widely 
in size from New York to Eau Claire, Wisconsin, and in locality from 
Boston to Memphis and Chicago to Houston, and into rural districts 
where it is logically associated with domestic science. The great pub- 
lic interest in the subject is shown by the daily press and periodicals, 
and by the publicity given it at the Child Welfare Conferences, School 
H}'giene and Medical Association meetings, etc. In several cities 
such as Chicago, Buffalo, Rochester, St. Louis and Denver, the school 
boards actively support the work. In others such as Philadelpliia, 
New York and Boston, there is passive cooperation and tolerance. 

The present need of the movement in this country is not propaganda 
but development of technique. We must be warned by the develop- 
ment of medical inspection and playground movements where in a 
large number of cases the work has been hasty; large initial funds have 
been appropriated but no insurance made against the waning of popu- 
lar enthusiasm and momentary support. The interest shown by the 
Home Economics Association is a most hopeful feature and I am glad 
to report that your committee has formulated a definite program for 
dealing with precisely this question. We propose to constitute a clear- 
ing-house for information, mutual criticism and cooperation of people 
in all parts of the country actively engaged in school lunch work. 
Within a short time we hope to have in preparation a manual of school 
feeding which will deal with points of administration, organization, 
technical features of equipment, plans of dietaries, menus, etc. An- 
other hopeful sign is the introduction of normal courses in school 
dietetics started or planned in universities and technical schools 
throughout the coimtry. 



1912] The Rural School Lunch 477 

In concluding this summary of the present status of school feeding 
in this country the two conferences to be held in the fall of 191 2 should 
be mentioned. The Home and School League of Philadelphia proposes 
to devote two days of its annual conference to school feeding including 
an exhibition and demonstration, and the International Congress, of 
Hygiene and Demography at Washington will include several exhibi- 
tions of school lunches from different parts of the country as well as 
many addresses by experts on questions of nutrition and relative 
topics. We hope that this work may take away the sting of the 
German writer's reproach who three years ago in a treatise on school 
feeding said she would begin with the United States as so little was 
done there. 

THE RURAL SCHOOL WARM LUNCH.* 

Mary L. Bull. 

University of Minnesota. 

In order that the brain be clear and capable of doing efficient work 
the physical needs of the body must be supphed by proper food. The 
food must be of the kind, quantity and quality suited to the require- 
ments of the person. At no time during the life of an individual is 
the subject of "What to Eat" more important than in childhood. 

Children are in the formative stage, not only of muscles and bone, 
but of mind and habits. Careless habits of thinking produce a 
dwarfed mind, as habitually stooped shoulders lead to undeveloped 
lungs. The young human being, to develop normally, must have food 
which will "fill the growing demand;" which will furnish material for 
the growth of the body, and also supply energy to carry on the activi- 
ties of child-life, work, play, and study. Generally speaking, the 
school lunch has, until recently, received Uttle intelligent thought. 

During the last few years many of the large cities have proven, 
to the satisfaction of those most interested in child welfare, that a 
wholesome, simple, warm dish, served at the noon lunch hour, is a 
success from more than one view-point. Even where the city furnishes 
the lunch free of charge, it is considered an economical plan, and should 
not lead to a demoralizing dependence as feared by some. 

The immediately noticeable good results are: more and better school 

* Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 



478 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

work ; smaller need for special training to enable pupils to pass grades 
in the allotted time. The probable good results, not apparent at the 
time, are a better physical condition of the pupils, and the stimulus 
received from a knowledge of work well done, and of being in line with 
the successful ones. These conditions must of necessity produce a 
healthier state of mind, and lead toward independence rather than 
dependency. There is no reason why, if such a plan result in better 
and more efficient work in the city schools, it should not be equally 
beneficial in the one-room rural school. 

After studying conditions in rural schools for some time, I decided 
that hot soup at least could be prepared and served in the country 
school, provided a feasible working plan was suggested. Later the 
Minnesota Extension Bulletin No. ig was issued, suggesting how hot 
soups, gruels, chowders, and other simple dishes might be prepared 
and served, what utensils are needed, etc. Simple recipes are given, 
with a suggestive lesson on the food materials used in each. The 
food materials suggested in these recipes are such as are common to all 
households, hence readily obtained in any community. This bulle- 
tin was sent to county superintendents for distribution. A goodly 
number of teachers have tried the plan with satisfactory results. 
Parents and school boards in general think the plan an excellent one, 
and have given substantial aid to the teachers. Pupils are very en- 
thusiastic, and are anxious to aid in the necessary preparation before 
the meal. Perhaps a good method of giving an idea of how the work 
is carried on in this state, is to give a few representative answers 
received from teachers to a list of questions which were sent out in the 
spring of 191 2. 

I. Has preparing and serving a hot soup with the noon lunch been tried? 
a. Yes. 
h. We have tried the preparing and serving of a hot soup for a number of 

weeks past, with what we consider a great deal of success. 
c. We have tried serving soups, sometimes cocoa, with our noon lunch. 

2. If so, with what success? 

a. Splendid. 

h. It has been very successful. 

c. I believe it is a great success. I never saw the children so enthusiastic 
about anything as they are about our oil-stove e.xperiment. They 
think soup and cocoa taste better at school than anywhere else. 
My only regret is that we did not get the stove sooner. 

3. How much time is necessarily spent in the preparation of the hot dish? 

a. But very little of school time. 

b. Fifteen to twenty minutes. 



1912] The Rural School Lunch 479 

c. Use recess period for preparing vegetables, etc. Very little school time 

used. 

d. Time taken in the morning, recess, and at noon to finish preparation. 

e. From ten to twenty minutes daily. 

/. Not more than 15 or 25 minutes is spent in the preparation itself, as a 
number of the pupils help in the preparation and do the greater share 
of the work. 

g. Two or three minutes. 

4. Was the work done by teacher or student? 

a. Students do most of the preparation. 

h. We all help. I see to the cooking and the girls serve and wash dishes 

at the noon hour. 
c. I let the girls take turns with preparing it. They enjoy it and become 

interested in the work. Having to do the work at school may induce 

them to try preparing the same dishes at home. 

5. If done by the students, what arrangement is made not to break into their 

regular work? 
a. They do it before school and at recess. I always attend to it during 

school hours. It takes very little time and preparation. 
h. By all helping to a certain extent, ver>- little school time is taken and it 

does not break into their regular work. 

6. How secure the material to be used in the hot dish? 

a. Pupils volunteer to bring the material. 

b. I started by buj-ing materials myself but the school board furnishes 

the food materials now. 

c. The soup bone is brought by the pupils in the morning as are also the 

vegetables. The soup bone is put on to boil slowly as soon as it is 
brought. The vegetables are prepared before 9 o'clock, if time 
permits, or at the first recess. This gives ample time for thorough 
cooking. Each family supplies some article to be used, except the 
potatoes, which have been purchased of a family residing near the 
schooLhouse. On account of their bulkiness, it is not convenient 
for the children to carry them to school. 

d. Two cents a week from each child and materials purchased with amount 

collected. 

7. What equipment is used? 

a. Heater, cups, spoons, kettle, ladle, large spoons, dish pans, fireless 

cooker — (tin cans for material furnished by children). Some chil- 
dren have brought plates, knives and forks. 

b. Kettle, meat fork, large spoon, ladle, tray, dish pan, dish-towels and 

sauce-pan, bread knife. 

c. A large kettle, large spoon, dish pan, cups and spoons furnished by the 

pupils. 

d. Stove, kettle, tea-kettle, dish pan, trays and towels. 

e. One six quart granite kettle, strainer and ladle. 

8. How secured? 

a. Stove is borrowed. The rest was furnished by teacher. Pupils fur- 
nish their own cups and spoons. 



480 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

h. Had cups and spoons. Fireless cooker was bought with social money; 
the rest by the teacher. 

c. Supplied by district. 

d. The pupils furnished what they needed and the teacher got the kettle, 

spoon and dish pan. 
e. From regular school funds. 
/. Bought by teacher, 
g. The oil-stove was paid for with part of the money made by giving a 

box-social and entertainment shortly after Christmas. 
9. If the heater is used in preparing the hot dish, please explain the process. 

a . The lid is taken off at the top of stove and kettle set in. 

b. The cooking is done on top of stove in a large kettle furnished by the 

children. We have soup bowls at school brought by the children 
which are kept in a cupboard and also dish towels, etc. 

c. We use our heating stove and have a wire to hold the kettle on the 

stove. 

d. I use the heating plant and put on the food so as to allow it ample time 

for cooking. 

e. We have a kerosene stove, 8 quart kettle and ladle. These articles 

were obtained through the efforts of the school-girls. At a recent 
"Farmers' Club," the girls volunteered to furnish a lunch consist- 
ing of coffee, sandwiches, pickles, and cakes. The sandwiches and 
cakes were made from the recipes contributed by Mary L. Bull. 
A collection of $3.50 was the result. For this, we obtained the above 
named supplies. Soup bowls and spoons are brought from the differ- 
ent homes. 
/. Put water on at recess time. Food material added to boiling water 
allowing time for cooking. 

10. Was a lesson regarding food, given in connection with the dish prepared, as 

suggested in Extension Bulletin No. 19? If not, why not? 
a. To some extent. 
i. Yes, in a very simple form. 

c. We have taken up the value of different foods in part, in connection 
with the food prepared. 

11. What is the attitude of the students toward such work? 

a. They are willing to do the extra work and enjoy the soup. 

b. They are very enthusiastic. 

c. The children seem to enjoy the work and are enthusiastic. The parents 

are also interested, and are always wiUing to send anything needed. 

d. The girls take turns at washing the dishes. 

e. The pupils enjoy the work. We have fixed up a part of our hall as a 

"Kitchenette," and the boys transformed a grocery box into a "cup- 
board" for our dishes and supplies. This is fastened to the wall above 
our stove. The girls enjoy washing the dishes during the noon hour. 

12. What is the attitude of the parents? 

a. I have not heard of anyone who has anything against it. Many have 

spoken favorably of it. 
h. Parents all approve. 
c. I believe the parents think verj' favorably of our experiment. 



igi2] The Rural School Lunch 481 

13. What are some of the benefits derived from canning out the Hot Lunch plan? 

a. It is an aid in discipUne, a step towards domestic science, a great com- 
fort, especially on cold days, besides the nourishment furnished in 
the foods. 

h. More appetizing than only cold food. Brings the scholars together as 
a family. Meal is more quiet and orderly. 

c. I believe it essential to the health and future welfare of each pupil. 

d. The pupils do better work after having hot lunches and it is educa- 

tional in the line of cooking, manner of eating, cleanliness, etc. 

e. I think this work a great benefit both to the children and teacher. It 

helps to make the school more homelike. 

/. Health of children is benefited, opportunities for teaching good manners 
and cleanhness, boys more manageable, less confusion. 

g. It gives the children something warm at the noon hour. They enjoy 
eating their lunch more than ever before. It helps them to study 
better during the afternoon session. It is such a success that I 
would not do without it again if I had to furnish all materials myself. 

h. Noon lunch is eaten quietly and more slowly. 

i. So many of the children eat ver>' httle for breakfast that I beheve they 
need something warm for dinner. A school lunch is not always very 
appetizing as the food dries unless it is packed carefully. If a hot 
dish is served, this will not be noticed much and the children eat a 
hearty meal, while without it, perhaps all they eat is a piece of cake 
or something equally nourishing — or nothing at all. Then, too, 
school is more "homey" as one of our girls said, and that means a 
good deal to all of us. 

It was my privilege to partake of the hot dishes prepared and served 
in a number of one-room rural schools early in May of this year. I 
found them very appetizing and pleasing. The degree of order, 
cleanhness, and dispatch with which the work was done before and 
at the meal hour, differed in different school-rooms, very much as one 
would find differences in the homes of different housewives. In some 
cases, the entire work, from the preparing of food material to the hang- 
ing up of the dish pan was done quickly, neatly and without noise or 
confusion. In other cases, there was less order; but in no case did 
the work seem to attract the attention of the pupils at study. Teach- 
ers all expressed the opinion that the noon hour was more enjoyable 
and less trying when the noon hot limch was served. 



REPORT OF THE NEW YORK SCHOOL LUNCH 
COMMITTEE.! 

The New York School Lunch Committee was not formed until 
lunches had been served for several months at a school of 2000 Irish 
children on West 44th Street, and at a large Italian School on Mott 
Street. The principals of these two schools feeling the impossibility 
of successfully teaching himgry children, asked two of the present 
School Lunch Committee to help them sell food at noon in the assembly 
room, and on November 23, 1908, luncheons began. This is men- 
tioned so that it will be realized how naturally this work came into 
existence. 

At first, the administrative part of this noon meal was very poor. 
There was no knowledge on either the school's part or that of the 
committee of the best methods, only a strong conviction that the 
children were being held back in their studies because of insufficient 
food or the wrong food, but we fortunately had had experience in 
preparing inexpensive nourishing food elsewhere. In fact the adminis- 
trator should have had much experience in actual cooking and selling 
food and not try to do it from theory. 

From the first this lunch has never been free. There were in the 
beginning three prices, a 3-cent, a 4-cent and a 5-cent meal, but this 
soon proved a poor idea as the children who paid 5 cents felt superior 
to the children who paid 3, while those paying the lower price always 
had a feeling of being cheated and sitting at a second table. This was 
soon changed and all lunch checks sold for 3 cents. 

A Lunch Committee soon suggested itself as a necessity. We 
realized that the work was growing without sufficient organization, 
while principals of schools all over the city were asking for the lunch. 
The work, even to this point, was done with the permission of Superin- 
tendent Maxwell, of the Board of Education, but it was not organized 
until 1909, when a committee of fifteen was formed and approved of 
by Mr. Maxwell. Since that time this committee has administered 
all elementary school luncheons in New York City. 

^ Presented by title at the Lake Placid IMeeting of the Administration Section of 
the American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 

482 



1912] Report of Nov York School Lunch Committee 483 

Luncheons are now being served not only in the two schools men- 
tioned, but in five others, three of them of Jewish children, making 
seven elementary' schools in New York serving lunch. 

The New York School Lunch Committee is also responsible for food 
served to the Special Anaemic Classes which have been opened in 
more than half a dozen of our schools. It should be stated in passing 
that these Special Anaemic Classes not only receive the regular school 
lunch but also have milk served at 9.15 in the morning and at 2.30 in 
the afternoon. All food is carefully supervised by a physician who 
comes once a week and weighs the children. This anaemic work in 
New York is paid for by the Charity Organization Society. 

In the regular school lunches the method of selling the 3-cent lunch 
checks is not the same in every school, but the following has proved 
the most satisfactory. The assistant principal or a special teacher 
counts out the brass checks at 8.15 a.m., placing in each box (and there 
is a box for each floor) a few more checks than were sold the pre\'ious 
day. As the teachers enter to sign their time one from each floor takes 
a box, and when the school goes to assembly at 8.40 this teacher makes 
the rounds on her floor, selling to each room the checks required. This 
appointed floor teacher then brings the box, with money received from 
the sale of checks and all checks not sold, back to the principal's desk, 
having filled out an enclosed slip stating number of checks originally 
in box, number sold to children, number sold to teachers (for teachers 
pay 5 cents while children pay 3) and money received. When the 
boxes are all in, the one in charge sums up the total number of checks 
sold on all floors and sends to the cook the number of luncheons that 
will be needed. The cook, knowing the exact ladlefuls of soup or 
bowls of beans required, can avoid all waste. The teacher in each 
room holds the checks for the children until the first bell rings at noon 
when each child is given the check he has paid for. There are, of 
course, cases where a child is unable to buy his check himself, and such 
check is often purchased for him and paid for from some outside source, 
but every check must be paid for by somebody. So far the School 
Lunch Committee has not solved to its satisfaction this problem of 
indigent children. 

The luncheons are cooked in the school building, the Board of Edu- 
cation allowing a room or a part of a room for the purpose. The Board 
has also, in some cases, contributed the tubs in which the dishes are 
washed, and in one or two instances provided the stove. Apart from 
this, all kitchen utensils and all deficit must be met by private sub. 



484 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

scription. This, of course, limits the ability to extend the work beyond 
a certain point. The New York School Lunch Committee expects 
to carry on this work only until such time as it has demonstrated to 
the people of New York the necessity for the city to serve luncheons on 
a large scale. 

In the preparation of the meal one cook in each school prepares the 
lunch. If there is a Special Anaemic Class that is served separately, 
then a kitchen maid is necessary. In addition to this paid service 
from ten to fifteen children assist in serving the meal and afterwards in 
washing dishes. These children receive their lunch in return for their 
services. 

Besides the 3-cent meal which every child must have who comes 
to the limch at all, there is a penny table in each school. On this 
table there are for sale such things as baked apples, apples on the stick, 
prunes, corn, crackers, spice cakes, sandwiches, and always hot cocoa. 
The wares on this table vary each day, and must be studied to meet the 
taste of the children. Any child who has bought his check in the 
morning can spend his extra pennies at the penny table, and we have 
found that this table prevents the push-cart rush at noon. It is the 
fun of buying at this table that makes many children "v\Tlling to pur- 
chase the lunch check in the morning. There is nothing very exciting 
about spending money for a bowl of soup, but there is something that 
appeals to a child's nature in choosing what he will buy especially 
when it is the dessert part of the meal. So far it has seemed necessary 
for some one from outside to come in at noon and take charge of this 
table, also the rolling of the coins taken from the sale of checks. 
Teachers in our public schools are too busy to have this additional 
work put on their shoulders by an outside organization. If teachers 
are to super\4se the luncheon it must be considered and arranged for 
by those planning the school work as a whole. Before noon each day 
the pennies from the sale of the morning checks are turned over to this 
representative of the School Lunch Committee. She counts and rolls 
this money; adding (after the luncheon) the receipts from the penny 
table. Each day, all receipts are put into a bag, and at the end of the 
week the contents of the five bags are added — a printed slip is filled 
out and all handed in to the treasurer of the School Lunch Committee. 

The success of the luncheons in the elementary school lies, it seems, 
in good supervision. For example, a child who is ladling out soup 
naturally (without supervision) will give his friend a large ladleful 
while he takes the opportunity to give the boy whom he doesn't like a 



1912] Report of New York School Lunch Committee 4S5 

meagre amount. Very small children are apt to get burned with the 
hot soup and must be watched and often guided to the table. At the 
penny table it is neither wise nor kind to have children do the work 
without constant supervision on account of the handling of money. 
To make change, to help the small children decide what they want, to 
keep the line moving so that those waiting will not grow impatient, 
all this takes daily directing. 

The detail connected with school lunch work is very great. Hun- 
dreds of pennies have to be collected from many directions. They 
pass through many hands and must be rolled before the bank will 
accept them. What is sold on the penny table must be sold at a profit 
because a boiler of soup costs $2.50 and only $2 is received for it. This 
deficit is met by the profit from the penny table. Also, it is neces- 
sary to see that the right amount of nourishment is put into every day's 
soup, and it is well-known that a good cook can make soup taste well 
and still not satisfy as to food value. Children must wear clean 
aprons. It is hard to make an inexperienced maid in our own homes 
feel the necessity of daintiness. How much harder is it to make chil- 
dren care that their aprons are stained, and surely the cook is too busy 
in her own department to watch the children. I regret to say that even 
she needs super\asion as to her own perfect cleanliness. Children 
who have lived in the street and have never hesitated to help them- 
selves to the food within their reach, are just as smart when it comes 
to getting the best for the least money at school luncheons. For 
example, it is very easy for one boy to buy a check and purchase his 
tray of soup and then go away and sell for one penny the privilege of 
carrying that tray and empty bowl up to the penny table. This 
second boy purchases any amount of dessert without the necessity of 
eating soup and this one tray can be sold many times if someone is 
not on hand, someone quicker than these street-trained children. 

A lack of this proper supervision is, it is beheved, what has brought 
criticism upon the school lunch, where criticism has been given, and 
yet this part of the work is expensive and the children's pennies can 
never pay for it. The great difficulty is that the schools are scattered 
— and the one hour when supervision is needed is the same in every 
school. A paid supervisor to go into each school at noon is too expen- 
sive, and yet from somewhere this supervision must come. 

The manner of serving the lunch is as follows: One boy collects the 
checks as the children come up in line at exactly twelve o'clock. Two 
boys fill the bowls, while another puts the bowl on the tin tray and 



486 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

hands it to the child. These children wear aprons, caps and cotton 
gloves. The child then passes on and receives his spoon and then his 
two slices of bread. His 3-cent meal is now complete — if he wishes 
more, he and his tray pass on to the penny table, where he can buy to 
the extent of his income. The children stand at long tables which are 
simply boards on horses. At the end of the meal all trays are taken to 
a receiving table, spoons are dropped into hot water, two boys scrape 
the dishes and pile them in a wagon, which is later wheeled into the 
kitchen for washing. The meal is over at 12.25, or 12.30 at the latest, 
so that half an hour still remains for play. 

It is impossible to give the entire menus of all the schools. In the 
Italian schools we have ItaUan cooks, and the macaroni, dried lima 
beans and lentils are used, all dishes being cooked in Italian oil and in 
the Italian way. In the Jewish schools only kosher dishes are served, 
and all are cooked by Jewish cooks and with the full approval of the 
rabbi of that district. In the Irish school, for 3 cents a child receives 
Irish stew, or baked beans, potato with meat gravy, rice, pea, bean, 
barley soups, and what they like above all things, clam chowder. 
What children like must always be taken into consideration. A 
child is not at home with his mother and obliged to eat what is put 
before him, he is a purchaser out for himself. His 3 cents is a great 
deal of money to him. It can be spent to his perfect satisfaction out- 
side. There is no compulsion exerted by either the school authorities 
or the School Lunch Committee. We have to make the lunch more 
attractive than the red lemonade, the candy and the hokey-pokey 
outside. Just because we beheve that oatmeal and milk would be good 
for him is no reason to suppose that he is going to spend his money for 
oatmeal and milk when, as we are told many times during the week, 
he is sick of it because he has to eat it at home. Therefore, considera- 
tion of the child's taste must always be taken and weighed with the 
food value. 

This 3-cent meal is the way in which luncheon is served at five 
schools. In two others the plan of the penny luncheon is being tried, 
for some of the committee felt that there were children who might 
have I or 2 cents, but not the required 3. Also, the larger children, 
especially boys, did not Hke to be dictated to as to how they should 
spend the entire sum of 3 cents, even though they had it. Therefore, 
the experiment is being tried of having the check bought in the morn- 
ing worth I cent and the child gets a penny's worth of soup for his 
check (although it is really more than i cent's worth). He can buy 



19 1 2] Report of New York School Lunch Committee 487 

bread for the second cent, and then pass on to the penny table. The 
School Lunch Committee still withholds its opinion as to which method 
of serving luncheon is the better. 

Investigations are being carried on at the present time to help decide 
this question. For example, in a school where a large part of the' 
children came from very poor homes, the lunch was put down to i 
cent. In this school the names of all the children who spend only 
I cent at noon and, therefore, had only soup and no bread and no 
extras, were taken for two weeks. Out of 200 children a day, there 
were only six who took this unfortunately small meal repeatedly. 
These six were all visited, and in every case the parents said that they 
gave the child plenty of money in the morning but the temptation to 
buy on the way to school had been too great and so only i cent re- 
mained when the noon hour came. We also visited the children who 
came regularly to the lunch to find out from what class our custom is 
drawn, for some have asserted that the mothers use the school lunch 
so that they need not feel the responsibility of cooking dinner. We 
feed on an average about 10 per cent. In the schools of 2000 children, 
from 200 to 250 buy their luncheons at school. In an Irish school the 
names of 90 of the most regular were taken and the mothers visited. 
Thirty, or about one-third, put the entire responsibility of the child 
staying at school for lunch on the child. Such remarks as these seemed 
to decide the question: "He wants to go." — "He teases till I give 
him the pennies." — "He won't come home because he likes to eat 
with the other children." When asked if the mother herself were 
glad, she would answer that she did not care, it was all the same, the 
children decided. Twenty-eight, or about one-third, gave the reason 
that the family was large, the work hea\y. The investigator saw 
from the huge washings and the three or four children under school 
age that the mother spoke the truth. To these women the school 
lunch lightens labor, and although they are at home at noon it makes 
the home more orderly and work more possible if the school children 
do not come rushing in. In sixteen cases, or about one-sixth of the 
number investigated, the same reason was given, but in these cases 
it was thought not as necessary. The mother seemed to have time to 
cook, but was glad not to. In more than one-seventh of the cases 
both the fathers and the mothers worked out by the day. To them the 
school lunch has solved what before was an impossible problem. The 
child from these homes must depend on the school. 

In only five of the cases, the mothers frankly did not approve of the 



488 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

school lunch, and yet these were cases where the children ate at school 
regularly. They preferred to have their boys and girls come home at 
noon, but the children wouldn't come. They said often only a part 
of the money was spent for lunch and the rest went for cigarettes or 
candy. In these cases the parents had no discipline over the children, 
the fact that the mother did not wish her child to stay at school for 
luncheon was no indication that the child would not be there every 
day. Many of these mothers had half the children in school while 
half came home, for the children decided. This is often the case in 
Irish families. I mention it because the characteristics of the differ- 
ent nationalities seem to have much to do with this school lunch gen- 
eration. 

In the Italian families we find a great desire to have the children 
at home at meal time. In the less intelligent, this instinct is very 
strong as they do not as quickly see the advantage to the child of 
the hot midday meal at school, they cannot as easily accept a new idea. 
In nearly all of the cases where extreme poverty was the cause of 
malnutrition, the family was found to be under the care of some charit- 
able organization, sometimes the woman realized that she was unable 
to give her child the right food, but she had not the money to pay for 
the school lunch. The Lunch Committee has had part cooperation 
from the two large charity organizations of New York, but it would 
seem right if luncheons become an established thing, that the children 
of these families receive daily the school lunch as a part of the aid 
given the family. 

In another school of Irish children, 83 of the families where malnutri- 
tion seemed to be interfering with the child's study were visited. Not 
any of these children were buying their luncheons at school. A few 
were receiving the meal as compensation for ser\aces rendered, a few 
were given lunch which was paid for by an outside source — the others 
did not come. The chief reason, the investigator found on visiting 
the homes, was what she called the indifiference of the mother. It was 
the same kind of indifference that in the other cases mentioned gave 
the children the pennies because they teased, there was no thought 
whether the lunch was a good thing or not. In one instance it was 
easier to give, in the other, it was easier not to. In the latter case the 
parents were shiftless, they could not remember to get the 3 cents 
ready in the morning although in many cases the mother acknowledged 
that she had 5 cents, 10 cents and sometimes a quarter, but she couldn't 
think to get it changed. In some homes, usually where the mother 



19 1 2] Report of New York School Lunch Committee 489 

drank, no thought was given to where the child ate. The children 
from these homes come to the lunch once in a while, but they usually 
drift away at noon, no one knows exactly where they eat or what they 
eat. Shiftlessness, lack of thought, the same ignorance that is so 
often the reason for the poverty, and in some cases real poverty, pre- 
vent us from reaching all of the children whom we must reach if our 
lunch is to serve the purpose for which it was established. 

An investigation last year proved the advantage of the lunch to 
these under-nourished children. Out of 1000, 265 were selected as 
sulTering from malnutrition. Half of these were Irish and half Italian. 
They were weighed and measured and their home conditions studied. 
Falf were given lunch while the other half ate at home, ate from push 
carts, or went without lunch altogether. At the end of three months 
the same children were weighed, measured and their standing in school 
looked into. It was found that the average gain in weight of the 
children who stay regularly at school was three times as great as that 
of the others and their standing had improved to a marked degree. 

As to the financial side of the school lunch work in New York, the 
treasurer's report is here presented in part. It will be seen that we 
do not pay e.xpenses. The cost of providing 63,434 lunches was 
S2937.83, which means paying for all food and service in preparing 
food. We received for these 63,434 lunches S2 53 7.3 5; the deficit being 
only S400.48 for the year or 0.0063 per child per day (this is without 
administrative work). We believe that food and service can be en- 
tirely paid for by the children. We do not beUeve that if every school 
in New York City opened a lunch room and every child bought his 
luncheon that that would pay for the equipment, the maintenance and 
repair or the administrative work. This account of school lunch 
work in New York is not meant to be discouraging. We are feeding 
on an average twelve hundred children a day. The children are gain- 
ing, and the food is thoroughly liked, but we do not think of it as a 
finished problem. It is of course the children of the ignorant, poor 
parents that we must reach — not a few of them, but all of them. 

It is the history of all new movements that the timid and ignorant 
hold back at first, but we feel sure that the continued establishment 
of the lunch room in elementary schools will itself solve the problem 
by the very strength of its advantage. 

The equipment for 200 children is as follows: 200 bowls, 200 trays, 
200 spoons, 100 saucers, 2 twelve-gallon boilers, i six-gallon boiler, 
I large basket for bread, i table cloth, 3 ladles, i bread cutter, 2 large 



49© The Journal of Home Economics [December 

spoons, I large knife, 3 small vegetable knives, i frying pan, 4 large 
supply cans, i garbage pail, i small pail for spoons, i large tray, i 
chopping bowl, i meat chopper, 3 milk pans for crackers, etc., dish 
towels, towel rack, wash board, scales, scrap dish, broom, dust pan, 
16 horses and 8 long board tables, 3 stools, 10 aprons for servers, 6 
pairs cotton gloves, dish pan, 3 kitchen tables, i zinc cover top table 
for penny table. 

Mabel Hyde Kittredge, 
Chairman New York School Lunch Committee. 

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL LUNCHES UNDER SCHOOL 
DEPARTMENT DIRECTION, BUFFALO, N. Y.^ 

Mary E. L. Small. 

This paper must necessarily be in the nature of a report since this 
week, June 21, marks the close of the first year of serving lunches for 
public school children under the administration of the school depart- 
ment. There have seen so many enquiries regarding the management 
that this would seem to be a fitting time and place to tell our experi- 
ences. 

Prior to this year a committee from the City Federation of Women's 
Clubs had charge, for five years, of the "Penny Lunches," a bowl of 
soup or one half pint bottle of milk with a roll, served at noon, in five 
grammar school buildings. 

In May, 191 1, the Common Council passed an ordinance making 
this work a part of the Domestic Science Department. The Superin- 
tendent of Education is in general charge, in cooperation with a com- 
mission appointed by him. A supervisor of lunches was selected 
from the eligible list of domestic science teachers. She is a graduate of 
Mechanics Institute, and much of the success of this initial year is 
due to her deep interest, and her well-trained ability. The city appro- 
priated $2000 to cover the expense of service and equipment, the food 
to be sold at cost of materials. This has been accomplished in the 
main, although with difficulty, as the children had the "penny" lunch 
idea so firmly fixed in their minds, that the 2 or 3-cent meal did 
not take well in the old schools. In the new schools, however, with 
no traditions to follow, the balanced meal has met with favor. 

^ Presented by title at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of 
the American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 



19 1 2] Elementary School Lunches 491 

The experiment of serving lunches was carried on in six schools, 
in three of these for the first time, and it is the judgment of all that 
the work proved more satisfactory in these three than in the others. 
The three most important criticisms passed upon the work here in 
previous years, were: (i) The tendency to relax maternal responsi- 
bility in the preparation of a meal. (2) Giving the child more than 
he knows he is paying for — "wrong values," or as some put it, "pau- 
perizing." (3) Serving at the noon hour an insufficient amount of 
food to constitute a meal. 

With these criticisms in view the aims the past year have been: (i) 
To serve only those children whose mothers are away at work all day; 
those who would not have hot food, and those who live at too great a 
distance from the school. (2) To teach the child the value of money 
and proper food, by giving him exactly his money's worth. (3) To 
furnish a meal according to dietary standards. 

There has been hearty cooperation from the Board of Health 
through reports of the Medical School Inspectors, from parents, prin- 
cipals and teachers. The Charity Organization Society has given 
lunch tickets to needy children. 

In two of the six schools, cocoa or soup was served daily to children 
who brought a lunch from home. This gave an opportunity for sug- 
gestions on "The Lunch Box," and in a short time "newspaper-" 
wrapped lunches disappeared, and in their places were seen neat boxes, 
paraffine and white paper, and a great improvement in the contents. 
Then, too, good manners are promoted by a properly supervised school 
lunch room. 

A study of the pupils availing themselves of the school lunches 
shows the following nationalities and conditions: Polish — One school, 
average daily attendance in January, 353 ; Italian — In two schools, 221 ; 
Syrians, Irish, and others representing unfavorable social conditions, 
one school; and a representative class of mixed nationalities from 
fairly comfortable homes, in two schools. 

The staff of assistants includes the supervisor, a cook in each school 
with one or two assistants as the number of pupils demands; pupils 
who assist in serving or dishwashing and receive their luncheon as 
compensation. In two schools the supervisor taught cookery to classes 
of girls, the results of her day's lessons being some "extra" served at 
noon. In one other school having a domestic science room, the in- 
structor cooperated by giving a larger amount of material to each pupil 



492 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

than the usual indiv'idual quantity, and sending those results to the 
school lunch room. 

The school lunch has been served in class rooms, in the boys and 
girls play rooms in basements, and in one school an attractive room 
was fitted up in a former play room. One of the most gratifying 
achievements of the year was the promotion, so to speak, of the boys 
from a cold dark basement to a sunny class room heretofore used for 
girls only, to have cocoa with their luncheon, the privilege depending 
upon behavior. It is needless to say that those nice boys never lost 
that privilege and they are our firmest friends. 

The selling of food in our high schools is the janitor's privilege. In 
our three new buildings, however, there will be modern lunch rooms, 
to be under department direction. Following is a list of food served 
at the noon hour: 

For I cent, any one of these: One-half pint of vegetable, bean, split 
pea, lentil or rice soup, corn chowder, rice and tomatoes, macaroni 
and tomato sauce, or, one-sixth quart milk with 2 crackers; 4 stewed 
prunes, 5 stewed apricots; i ounce sweet chocolate, i cup (one-sixth 
quart) cocoa, 2 rolls or 2 sandwiches, fig, date, jelly, 12 peanuts; one- 
fourth cup stewed apple or rhubarb. These desserts are served only 
to children who have had the hot food. 

For 2 cents: one-sixth quart soup or cocoa, one-half roll, cooked 
fruit; or one-fourth quart soup with 2 rolls. 

For 3 cents: one- fourth quart soup — bean, 2 rolls (or 2 sandwiches), 
I ounce chocolate (or other dessert). 

From November 6, 1911, to June 21, 1912, 50,554 luncheons were 
served; cost per capita, $0,013. 

Expended for salaries $1 1 19 . 20 

Equipment for three new schools and additions to three old ones 2 24 . 86 
Moving, etc 3 . 95 

$1348.01 

Food materials 735 • 00 

Value of food material on hand 24. 78 

$710.22 
Received from sale of lunches 585 . 79 

Deficit on food $124.43 

The deficit is largely due to lunches given for children's services. 



EDITORIALS. 

On another page of the Journal appears a copy of the circular which 
has very recently been sent out by the committee having in charge 
the raising of the Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund. 
The Memo- It recommends that Mrs. Richards' birthday, Decem- 
rial Fund. ber 3, be used as Home Economics Day by women's 
clubs and other organizations, at which time an 
earnest e£fort shall be made to put before the public the historj-^ and 
present status of the movement. Many excellent suggestions are 
given for programs covering the whole field, suggestions which, it is 
hoped, may be widely used; educational propaganda in this field is 
greatly needed. 

But the part of the circular to which we wish to call the special 
attention of our readers is the one concerning the Memorial Fund. 

We have in previous issues spoken of the growth of this project, 
the time has now come for concerted action. Through the Journal 
may be obtained free circulars which will assist any group of workers 
to organize for raising its proportion of the fund. 

Mrs. Richards' name is one to conjure with. Her gentle and inspir- 
ing personality became known to a large number of Home Economic 
groups, especially to teachers and students, and to a still wider circle 
her books have proved her power of leadership. Her scientific train- 
ing and her broad views helped her to place this branch of applied 
science on a dignified plane which it had never before reached. In 
her name we can ask in every community help for this fund which is 
designed to carry on her noble work. 

This fund, which it is hoped will reach the sum of $100,000 is called 
a research and publication fund. We are confronted with an ever 
increasing call for knowledge that shall help to make daily life in the 
home more happy and more efiicient. Much knowledge already 
exists, but chiefly in the published papers of specialists or in the reports 
of such societies as are aflfiliated in the American Association for the 
advancement of Science. Still more rich in material for this purpose 
are the reports of boards of health and of hygienic congresses. Last 
September during the meetings of the great International Congress 

493 



494 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

of Hygiene held in Washington it was the subject of universal lament 
on the part of the press that these discussions should not reach the 
people who stood most in need of them. 

Work of a high grade bearing on nutrition, clothing, shelter, technical 
education and a host of other subjects should be summarized and 
other'wise adapted to the use of teachers and home-makers. More- 
over, experiments should be undertaken in order to solve still other 
questions. To do this a sum of money is needed and for such worthy 
ends we should not seek in vain. Let us not add to our other crimes 
of economic waste that of waste of knowledge for w^hich we are suffer- 
ing and which lies close at hand. We need this permanent national 
agency for home betterment. The responsibility for the raising of 
this fund lies first on the members of this Association and the sub- 
scribers to the Journal. The Fund Committee have asked all such 
to become local committees to canvass personally for the Fund, to 
organize observance of Home Economics Day in schools and to ex- 
tend the sale of the Richards Calendar. 

HOME ECONOMICS DAY. DECEMBER 3, 1912. 

Suggestions for its Observance. 

Schools, colleges, w'omen's clubs and other institutions and organi- 
zations, are invited to observe December 3, 191 2, or some early day 
in place thereof, as ''Home Economics Day," to celebrate the wide- 
spread adoption of household science and arts as a subject of instruc- 
tion, and especially to point out some of the lines along which progress 
has still to be made both in education and in household practice. 

December 3, 191 2, is the seventieth anniversary of the birth of 
Ellen H, Richards (1842-1911), late of the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, who for forty years was the leader in the Home Eco- 
nomics movement, and to whom more than any one person we are 
indebted for the modern movement to make the common matters 
of food, clothing, and shelter the object of scientific study in the 
laboratory, of instruction in public schools, high schools, and col- 
leges, of consideration by women's clubs, and other civic organizations^ 
and of public concern and action as reflected in protective legislation 
and municipal regulation. 

It is suggested that Home Economics teachers everTwhere organize 
a fitting observance of the day by planning a program which scholars 
and students may carry out, presenting to their fellows and perhaps 



1912] Home Economics Day 495 

to the public, something of the history and present status of the home 
economics movement. Suggestions for topics, essays, and informal 
talks are given below. Women's clubs and other civic societies are 
also urged to make this an occasion of increased knowledge of the Home 
Economics idea, its place in education, and its significance for a better 
home life, by a similar program, emphasizing such instruction in their 
local schools and more adequate support for instruction in their state 
college or university, and more extensive plans for popular education 
to reach every home in country or city. 

A national movement now under way to raise a permanent fund 
of $100,000 as an Ellen H. Richards Memorial, to be used for scien- 
tific investigation in Home Economics, and for publication, thus con- 
tinuing her work of leadership, may well be given publicity on Home 
Economics Day. Where conditions permit, committees of students 
may, perhaps outside school hours, organize an entertainment, or 
other appropriate enterprise, the proceeds of which can go to this per- 
manent fund for home betterment. A benefit performance or lecture 
may be organized by clubs; and in all cases, perhaps, sales of the Rich- 
ards Home Economics Calendar may be undertaken (the proceeds of 
which go to the Fund — see below). In some cases admission can be 
charged to the Home Economics Day observance. 

Suggestions for Home Economics Day Program. 

Essay: The First Home Economist — Xenophon, 445-355 B.C. Author of 
"Oeconomicus." See "Xenophon" in Encyclopedia; and translation of this charm- 
ing description of Greek housekeeping in Bohn's Classical Library; read selections 
from Chapters III, VII, VIII, IX. 

Essay: An American Home Scientist — Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford, 
1753-1814. One of the greatest scientists of his time, who considered as of the 
highest importance careful scientific studies of kitchen ranges and cooking stoves, 
cooking utensils, fuel economy, baking of bread, "art of making coffee," making 
of soup, design of fireplaces to prevent smoking, heating and lighting of houses, 
hygiene of bathing, and other household problems. See Encyclopedia, "Rum- 
ford," and "Benjamin Thompson;" in large libraries, consult "Life of Rumford," 
especially Volume IV and " Essays of Rumford." 

Essay: Our First Home Economics Book — Miss Catherine E. Beecher, 1800- 
1878, author of "A Treatise on Domestic Economy," 1841; also, "Domestic Re- 
ceipt Book," 1842; "Health and Happiness," etc., and with her sister, Harriet 
Beecher Stowe, "The American Woman's Home and Principles of Domestic Sci- 
ence," 1869; Principal of Girls' School at Hartford, 1822-32; urged that women 
become teachers, and that all girls be taught domestic economy: founded 1852, 
American Women's Education Association, estabHshing higher schools at Mil- 
waukee, Dubuque, and elsewhere, which were to teach Domestic Economy. See 
her books in libraries; biography in Journal of Home Economics, Baltimore 
(June, 191 2, number, 50 cents). 



496 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Essay: Science and the Home — Ellen H. Richards, 1842-1911, Vassar, 1868, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1873, where she was instructor in Sani- 
tary Chemistry; Founder of Lake Placid Conference on Home Economics, 1899- 
1908; American Home Economics Association, 1908; Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, 1909; author of " Cost of Living," " Chemistry of Foods," " Euthenics," and 
many other books. For facts of her life, see "Ellen H. Richards and the Home 
Economics Movement," sent free on request to American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Baltimore; also "Life of Ellen H. Richards," by C. L. Hunt, published by 
Whitcomb and Barrows, Boston ($1.62 postpaid); Journal of Home Economics, 
Baltimore (October, 191 1, number, 50 cents). The Ellen H. Richards Memorial 
Home Economics Fund, for Research and Publication — secure free circular from 
American Home Economics Association, Baltimore, Md. 

Essay: The Home Economics Movement: It is a development from (i) The 
Manual Training movement (the value of hand training in general education); 
(2) vocational education movement (the present proposal that every young per- 
son shall be trained to earn a livelihood) ; (3) the higher technical and professional 
education (the training for expert leadership, at first in law, theology, and medi- 
cine, now applied to every field of service including school philanthropy, and 
even household). Sewing of samplers in Colonial schools; first college courses in 
home economics, Iowa State CoUege, 1872, Kansas State College, 1873, University 
of Illinois, 1874; there were four courses in state colleges in 1890, and 30 in 1900, 
and in 1911 college courses in 130 institutions; private cooking schools in Eastern 
cities from 1873 on, and the first public school kitchen in Boston in 1887; the 
training of teachers begins in Teachers College (now part of Columbia University) 
in 1S67, and Boston Normal School of Household Arts, 1888, and in 1911 there 
are 100 normal school courses for teachers; home economics now taught in most 
city schools, in over 700 high schools (1911), and in many rural schools. 

Essay: \\Tiat Home Economics Stands for: "Home Economics as a distinctive 
subject of instruction includes the economic, sanitary and aesthetic aspects of 
food, clothing and shelter as cormected ^vith their selection, preparation and use 
by the family in the home or by other groups of people. Instruction in this sub- 
ject should be based on the laws of the physical, biological and sociological sci- 
ences." Its platform as stated, by Mrs. Richards: "Home Economics stands 
for: (i) The ideal of home life for today unhampered by the traditions of the past; 

(2) the utilization of all the resources of modern science to improve the home life; 

(3) the freedom of the home from the dominance of things and their due subordi- 
nation to ideals; (4) the simpUcity in material surroundings which will most free 
the spirit for the more important and permanent interests of the home and society." 

Essay: What the National Government is Doing for the Home: in U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture — Nutrition Investigations (write for information) and publi- 
cations (write to Superintendent of Documents, Washington, for price list of publi- 
cations on food and diet); the national pure food law (secure copy by addressing 
Secretary of Agriculture) ; U. S. Bureau of Education, Washington, and U. S. Chil- 
dren's Bureau, Washington (write for information); the federal land grant of 1862 
helps support the state colleges, and annual grants are given for research in agricul- 
ture. Shall not the national government do more for the home? (i) Page- Wilson 
bill proposes aid for high schools, normal schools, and extension teaching, in Home 
Economics, industrial arts, agriculture (write Hon. Carroll S. Page, U. S. Senate, 



1912] Home Economics Day 497 

Washington, for copy); (2) Lever bill proposes aid to extension teaching in Home 
Economics and agriculture (write Representative Lever, U. S. House of Represen- 
tatives) ; (3) Smoot bill proposes aid for Home Economics research and publication in 
each state agricultural station (write Senator Smoot, U. S. Senate); (4) Wilson bill 
proposes a federal bureau of Domestic Science (write Hon. Wm. W. Wilson, U. S. 
House of Representatives); the U. S. Bureau of Education wishes an additional 
appropriation for experts in Home Economics and industrial education (write Bureau 
for information). 

Essay: What of Home Economics in our state? Write to State Education 
Department at Capital city for information regarding domestic science in elemen- 
tary and high schools; to state colleges and other women's colleges regarding col- 
lege courses in Home Economics, and extension courses for home study; to state 
normal schools; to chairman of state federation of women's clubs regarding club 
study of home problems. WTiat are the next steps in progress? Is there a state 
syllabus for schools? Are bulletins printed by state college for home women? 
Should there be money for a state household experiment station? For extension 
education to reach every home with practical help? What advance could be made 
in the local community? 

The Ellen II. Richards Home Economics Calendar for 1913, a decorative wall 
calendar, twelve engravings, portraits of Mrs. Richards, and illustrations of her 
laboratories and other views, together with twelve quotations of the Richards 
philosophy of home and life. 50 cents, post paid. Address: American Home 
Economics Association, Roland Park, Baltimore. In observing Home Economics 
Day, conmiittees are urged to extend the sale of the calendar as all proceeds go to 
the Memorial Fund. Sample on request; then take orders and send names, ad- 
dresses, and money, whereupon calendars will be sent by mail direct to individual 
purchasers, without further trouble to local committees. 

Lantern slides for lectures illustrating, (a) Mrs. Richards' life and work, (b) 
schools, colleges, and higher institutions teaching Home Economics, e.g., Simmons 
College, Chicago, Illinois, Wisconsin, Toronto, Teachers College, Pratt, Drexel, 
Mechanics Institute, and many others, can be furnished at 50 cents each, with 20 
per cent reduction for ten or more. 

Local Home Economics Committee: Schools and colleges, students' societies, 
women's clubs and other organizations are invited to form local committees to 
cooperate with the Ellen H. Richards Home Economics Fund, to plan the observ- 
ance of Home Economics Day, and to secure contributions to establish this per- 
manent agency for furthering the Home Economics idea and for bettering home life. 

Information: Address: American Home Economics Association, Roland Park, 
Baltimore, Md., or Richards Memorial Committee as below. 

The American Home Economics Association: President, Isabel Bevier, University 
of Illinois; Vice-Presidents, Charles F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C; Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, Ithaca N. Y.; 
Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, Madison; Treasurer, Howard L. Knight, 
Washington, D. C; Secretary, Benjamin R. Andrews, Teachers College, Columbia 
University, New York City. 

Richards Fund Committee: Mrs. Caroline Weeks Barrett, Isabel Hyams, Charles 
F. Langworthy, Ednah A. Rich, Benjamin R. Andrews, Secretary-Treasurer, 
address Teachers College, New York City. 



ANNUAL MEETING AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS 
ASSOCIATION. 

The annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association 
will be held at Simmons College, Boston, Mass., Tuesday, December 
31, 191 2, to be preceded by the annual dinner on Monday evening, 
December 30. The Association will be the guests of the New England 
Association at the Boston meeting. The program follows: 

Monday, December 30, 6 p.m. Informal dinner under the auspices of the New 
England Association. Tickets $1.25, may be secured in advance by address- 
ing Miss Dodd, Garland School, Boston, Mass. 
Roll call and reports from the field with informal discussion. 
Tuesday, December 31, p.jo a.tn. Meeting at Simmons College: Papers: "Research 
Related to Household Economics," Miss Kingsbury, Simmons College, and 
Director of Research, Women's Industrial and Educational Union, Boston. 
"Household Economics and Social Service," Mrs. Eva W. White, of Eliza- 
beth Peabody House and Massachusetts State Education Department. 
"A College Course in Household Economics," Benjamin R.Andrews, Teach- 
ers College, Columbia University. 
I p.m. Luncheon at the Simmons College Refectory, followed by an address by 

Dr. Snedden, Massachusetts Commissioner of Education. 
5 p.m. Annual Business Meeting. 

Report of president. Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois. 

Report of Editorial Board, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of 

Agriculture. 
Report of Administration Section, Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Simmons 

College, Chairman. 
Report of Housekeepers Section, Mrs. Lyndan Evans, Chairman. 
Report of Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund, Dr. B. R. Andrews, Chairman. 
Report of Committee on Constitution and By-Laws, Miss Adelaide Nutting, 

Chairman. 
Report of Committee on PubUcity and Progress, Mr. Maurice Le Bosquet, 

Chairman. 
Report of Committee on Legislation. 

Report of Committee on Nominations and Elections, Prof. Henry C. Sher- 
man, Chairman. 
8 p.m. "Municipal and Business Relations of Home Economics." Speakers 
to be announced later. 

The annual meeting of 19 13 will be held the last week of June, 19 13, 
at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. 
498 



i 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CURRENT LITERATURE. 

October i, 1912. 
I. Food. 

Composition and Analyses of Desiccated Milk and Cream. Fleming, Jour. 
Ittdus. and Eng. Chem., vol. 4, p. 543. 

The Determination of Benzaldehyde in Maraschino Cherries and Maraschino 
Liqueur. A. G. Woodman and Lewis Davis, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., August, 
pp. 588-589. 

Commercial Cinnamon and Cassia. H. E. Sindall, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 
August, p. 590. 

A Modification of the Babcock Test as applied to the Estimation of Fat in 
Desiccated Milk. Redmond, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vol. 4, p. 544. 

The Detection of Formic Acid in Fruit Products. T. L. Shannon, Jour. Indus. 
and Eng. Chem., vol. 4, p. 526. 

Alteration and Preservation of Eggs. M. de Laroquette, Chem. Abs., Septem- 
ber 10, p. 2471 (cf., L'iiui. beurre, vol. 50, p. 600). 

On the Use of Saccharin in Foods. Food Inspection Decision 146, U. S. Dept. 
of Agr. 

Detection of Prussian Blue in Tea. Fred West, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 
vol. 4, p. 528. 

Detection of Adulteration in Paprika. .\. V. Sigmond and M. Vuk, Chem. Abs., 
September 10, p. 2473 (cf. Zeil. Nahr. u. Genussm., vol. 23, p. 387). 

Ground Ginger. A. McGill, Lab. Inland Rev. Dept., Ottawa, Canada, Bull. 236. 

The Purines of Muscle. C. B. Bennett, Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 11, pp. 221-234. 

Egg and Meat Pastes. Utz, Chem. Abs., August 20, p. 2265 (cf. Pharm. Zen- 
tralhalle, vol. 53, p. 35). 

Volna, a Meat Substitute. Kochs, Chem. Abs., August 20, p. 2265 (cf. Pharm. 
ZenlralhaJle, vol. 52, pp. 1344-1345). 

Chemical Industry of "Concentrated Broths." Issoglio, Ind. Chim., 12, 129, 
191 2. Analyses. 

A Standard for Vinegar. Brit. Food Jour., vol. 14, p. 6. 

On the Starch of Glutinous Rice and its Hydrolysis by Diastase. Y. Tanaka, 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., August, pp. 578-581. 

Influence of the Hydrogen Ion Concentration on the Baking Value of Flour. 
H. Jessen-Hansen, Compt. rend. lab. Carlsberg, 191 2, 10, 170-206. Reported in 
Jour. Chem. Soc, London, Eng., July, 191 2, p. 675. 

The .\ntiseptic and Bactericidal Properties of Egg-White. L. F. Rettger and 
J. A. Sperry, Jour. Med. Research, vol. 26, p. 55. 

Concerning the Sugar Content of Watermelons. C. P. Sherwin and C. P. May, 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., August, p. 585. 

A Study of Ropy Bread. Anna W. Williams. Biochem. Bull., June, pp. 529- 

^^5- DEPARTMENT 

* 499 

Lb- 
LCLbLHOLD SCIEWCE 



500 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

2. Nutrition. 

Nutrition Experiments with Completely Hydrolized Proteins and with Ammo- 
nium Salts. E. Abderhalden, Chem. Abs., August 20, p. 2100 (cf. Zeit. Physiol. 
Chem., vol. 78, pp. 1-27). 

Studies on the Physiology of Digestion. III. The Secretion of Gastric Juice 
when the Chlorine Supply in the Body is Lessened. R. Rosemann, Chem. Ahs., 
August 10, p. 2100 (cf. Zeit. Physiol. Chem., vol. 10, p. 522). 

The Excretion Period of Nitrogen, Sulphur and Carbon after Ingestion of Pro- 
teins and their Decomposition Products. Wolf and Oesterberg., Chem. Abs., 
August 10, p. 2096 (cf. Biochem. Zeit., vol. 40, pp. 193-276). 

Growth and Maintenance on Purely Artificial Diets. T. B. Osborne and L. B. 
Mendel, Proc. Sac. Exp. Biol. Med., vol. 9, p. 72. 

The Proteins. D. D. Van Slyke, N. Y. Med. Jour., August 10, no. 6. 

The Role of Gliadin in Nutrition. T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., September, pp. 473, 511. 

The Amino-Acid Nitrogen of the Blood. Preliminary Experiments on Protein 
Assimilation. D. D. Van Slyke and G. M. Meyer, Jour. Biol. Chem., September, 
pp. 3Q9-4II- 

Protein Metabolism in Experimental Diabetes. A. I. Ringer, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
September, pp. 431-447. On the protein-sparing power of carbohydrates and fats. 

Lectures on the Herter Foundation. The Proteins. Kossel, Johns Hopkins 
Hasp. Bull., vol. 23, p. 76. 

Animal Calorimetry. II. MetaboHsm of the Dog Following the Ingestion of 
Meat in Large Quantity. Williams, Riche and Lusk, Jour. Biol. Chem., September, 

PP- 349-377- 

Animal Calorimetr}^ III. Metabolism after Ingestion of Dextrose and Fat. 
Graham Lusk, Jour. Biol. Chem., October, pp. 27-49. 

Animal Calorimetry. IV. Observations on the Absorption of Dextrose and the 
effect it has upon the composition of the blood. G. Fisher and M. B. Wishart, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., October, pp. 49-63. 

Fasting Studies. VII. The Putrefaction in the Intestine of a Man during Fast- 
ing and during Subsequent Periods of Low and High Protein Ingestion. C. P. 
Sherwin and P. B. Hawk, Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 11, pp. 169-177. 

The Behavior of Fat-soluble Dyes and Stained Fat in the Animal Organism. 
L. B. Mendel and Amy L. Daniels, Jour. Biol Chem., October, pp. 71-97. 

Green Vegetables and Their Uses in the Diet. C. F. Langworthy, Separate 
582, Yearbook, igii, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

The Nature of Hunger. W. B. Cannon, Pop. So. Mo., September, pp. 291-308. 

Studies in the Nutrition and Digestion of Infants. Maynard Ladd, Arch. Pedi- 
atrics, May, pp. 324-350. 

The Dextrins and Maltose in Infant Feeding. T. S. South worth. Arch. Pedi- 
atrics, September, pp. 646-654. 

Note on the Influence of Food upon the Intestinal Flora of Infants. A. Fried- 
lander, Jr., and J. V. Greenebaum, Arch. Pediatrics, September, pp. 673-682. 

The Care of Infants. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., August 17, pp. 542-543; August 
31, pp. 720-721; September 7, pp. 797-798. 

Requisite Standards for Raw Material in the Successful Substitute Feeding of 
Infants. H. L. Coit, Arch. Pediatrics, June, no. 6. 



1912] Bibliography of Home Economics 501 

Simple Methods of Infant Feeding. David J. Levy, M.D., Detroit, Mich., 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., June 22, vol. 58, no. 25, pp. 1925-1927. 

The Utility of the Vacuum Bottle in Infant-Feeding. F. D. Tonney, A. B., 
M.D. and H. H. Pillinger, M.D., Chicago, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., May 18, vol. 
58, no. 20, pp. 1495-1496. 

Nitrogen and Nuclein Metabolism in Gout. P. A. Levene and Leo Kristeller, 
Jour. Exp. Med., September, pp. 303-315. 

Wheat Bran. A. E. Gallant, N. Y. Med. Jour., August 31, no. 9. Use in con- 
stipation. 

Diet in Tuberculosis. W. B. Kendall, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., September 7, 
p. 826 (cf. Canadian Med. Assn. Jour., August 11, no. 8). 

Diet and Hygiene in Diseases of the Skin. L. D. Bulkley,/(?;<r. ^ w. Med. Assn., 
August 17, pp. 535-538. 

Five Years' Experience with the High-Calory Diet in Typhoid. Warren Cole- 
man, Jour. Am. Med. .Assn., August 3, pp. 363-367. 

The Absorption of Food in Typhoid Fever. Du Bois, Arch. Intern. Med., 
September, p. 177. 

Recent Japanese Investigations on Rice Bran in Relation to Disease. Edito- 
rial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., September 14, pp. 883-884. 

Beriberi Caused by Fine White Four. John M. Little, M.D., St. Anthony, 
Newfoundland, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., June 29, vol. 58, no. 26, pp. 2029-2030. 

A Class E.xperiment to Illustrate the Synthetic Action of Enzymes. W. M. 
Bayliss, Proc. Physiol. Soc, Jour. Physiol., 43, pp. 40-42. 

Physiology of Water and Table Salt. O. Cohnheim, Chem. Ahs., August 10, 
p. 2095 (cf. Zeit. Physiol. Chem., vol. 76, pp. 62-88). 

Laboratory Studies of Rennin. A. Zimmermann, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 
vol. 4, p. 506. 

Studies in Bacterial Metabolism. VII. A. I. Kendall and C. J. Farmer, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., October, pp. 63-71. 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

The Cleansing Action of Soap. E. Feilmann, Chem. World, vol. i, p. 46. 

Rules for Cleaning. Mary Urie Watson, Cornell Reading Course, September i, 
vol. I, no. 23. 

The Preservation of Food in the Home. Part III. Cornell Reading Course, 
August I, 191 2, vol. I, no. 21. 

The Preservation of Food in the Home. Part H. Flora Rose, Cornell Reading 
Course, July i, 1912. vol. i, no. 19. 

Results of Antityphoid Vaccination in the Army in i9ii,and its Suitability for 
Use in Civic Conmiunities. Frederick F. Russell, M.D., Washington, D. C, 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., May 4, vol. 58, no. 18, pp. 1331-1336. 

Public Health Report, May 10, 191 2. Report of N. Y. Milk Committee. 
Editorial in Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., May 18, 1912, pp. 1515-1516. 

Recent Advances in the Treatment of Pulmonary Tuberculosis by Air, Food and 
Rest. Lawrason Brown, M.D., Trudeau, N. Y., Jour. Amer. Med Assn., June i, 
1912, vol. 58, no. 22, pp. 1678-1681. 



502 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The Effect of Sulfurous Acid on Fermentative Organisms. W. V. Cruess, Jour. 
Indus, and Eng. Chem., August, pp. 581-585. 

Tests of the Efficiency of Pasteurization of Milk under Practical Conditions. 
Jour. Med. Research, vol. 26, p. 127, 191 2. 

Types of Bacteria Carried by City Flies. J. C. Torrey, Jour. Infect. Dis., vol. 
10, p. 166. 

A Concealed Danger of Lead Poisoning? F. M. Litterscheid, Chem. Abs., 
August 10, p. 2120 (from Z. Nahr. Genussm., vol. 23, p. 440). Kitchen utensils 
used for heating water. 

Stuffy Rooms. Leonard Hill, Pop. Sc. Mo., October, pp. 374-397. 

A Quantitative Study of the Bacteria in City Dust. C. E. A. Winslow and I. 
J. Kligler, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, September, pp. 663-702. 

First Aid in the Family. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., October 5, pp. 1291-1293. 

Power of Potable Water to Dissolve Lead. Pieter A. Meerburg, Chem. Weekblad, 
191 2, 9, pp. 494-497. Reported in Jour. Chem. Soc, London, Eng., August, 1912, 
p. 762. 

4. Textiles. 

The Dyestuffs of the Ancients. C. E. Pellew, Handicraft, August, 191 2, pp. 
63-71. 

The Dyestuffs of our Ancestors. C. E. Pellew, Handicraft, September-October, 
pp. 87-96. 

The Permanent Fireproofing of Cotton Goods. W. H. Perkin, Pop. Sc. Mo., 
October, pp. 397-409. 

Influence of Washing Materials Containing Oxygen upon the Fibers. E. Luksch, 
Chem. Abs., September 10, p. 2552 (cf. Seifender Ztg., vol. 39, p. 3). 

5. Education and Social Work. 

The Home School of Providence, Rhode Island. Ada W. Trowbridge, Vocational 
Education, September, pp. 13-28. 

Women — The Larger Housekeeping. Mabel Potter Daggett, World's Work, 
October, pp. 665-670. 

Report of the Conunittee on Markets, Prices and Costs of the N. Y. State Food 
Investigating Commission, August i, 1912. 

First Aid to the Home Budget Maker. Martha Bensley Bruere, Outlook, Sep- 
tember 21, pp. 1 21-12 7. 

The First International Eugenics Congress. Raymond Pearl, Ph.D., The Inde- 
pendent, September 12, 1912, vol. 73, no. 3328, pp. 614-616. 

A Stable Monetary Yardstick the Remedy for the Rising Cost of Living. Irving 
Fisher, Ph.D., The Independent, September 26, 191 2, vol. 73, no. 3330. 

The Kitchen — the Homemaker's Laboratory. Elizabeth McCracken, Outlook, 
October 12, pp. 305-311. 

Educating the Consumer. Martha Bensley Bruere, Outlook, September 7, 
pp. 29-34. 

Industrial Education in the Phihppines. Science, September 27, pp. 396-397. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The Conimonwealth Club of California, through its chairman, Mr. R. S. Gray, 

has inaugurated a movement looking to the organization and establishment at 

_ , the Panama-Pacific Exposition in 1915, of an exhibit, a so-called 

Proposed <-.,,, . , , , , , 

_,,,., bocial Museum representmg the latest results of human orogress 
Sociological . , ,-, . , ^, , ,, t 

F h"ht f "^ sociology. We quote concermng the Harvard Museum from 

p publication no. 4 of the Department of Social Ethics in Harvard 

p .„ P University, entitled The Social Museum as an Instrument of 

. . University Teaching by Francis G. Peabody : 

sition. ,,,, . . - . , , . ,., . 

May not the phenomena of social evolution, hke those of 

physical evolution, be inductively approached? Is not the chief hindrance of 
social progress to be found in the failure to apply to the facts and movements of 
society the method of science, as though emotion and sentimentalism could be 
substitutes for accurate observation and prudent generalization? .... 
Finally, there was begun in 1903 the Social Museum, to promote investigations 
of modem social conditions, and to direct the amelioration of industrial and social 
life. Such a museum is undertaken on the assumption that the most immediate 
need of students concerned with the social question is, not merely enthusiasm or 
sympathy or self-sacrifice or money, but wisdom, discretion, the scientific interpre- 
tation and comparison of facts; and that this application of the inductive method 
may be encouraged by setting before the student in graphical illustration the 
evidence of progress in various countries and putting at his command the fund of 
experience accumulated in various parts of the world. The remoteness of the 
United States from other countries, and the brevity of its social history make this 
provision of illustrative material ail the more necessary. Problems of the social 
order, which elsewhere represent gradual processes of social evolution, have pre- 
sented themselves in the United States with startling abruptness and in dimensions 
of fKjrtentous magnitude, and put a sudden strain on poUtical and social wisdom. 
These and many other social problems have in large measure taken 
Americans by surprise, and the science of society cannot safely proceed wathout 
new obser\'ation, comparison and appropriation of the experience of the world. 
The same demand for comparative sociology is laid, in various degrees, on other 
countries. The Harvard Museum is, it is beheved, the first attempt to collect 
the social experience of the world as material for university teaching, and to pro- 
vide guidance for academic inquiries into the study of social progress." 

It is with these same ideas, on a larger basis, that the Commonwealth Club 
is making its plea for such a Museum at the Panama-Pacific Exposition. Various 
universities, scientific bodies and civic organizations have been asked to interest 
themselves in this great sociological exhibit. Speaking of the matter editorially 
one of the San Francisco papers says: " Heretofore world's fairs have been commem- 
orative of some historical event or physical achievement. Here is an opportunity 
to make the Panama-Pacific Exposition something more than a visual chronicle 



504 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

of mechanical progress — to make it a living example of social development of the 
great things that are being done in the world, of the things that indicate that 
"the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light:" and that light is 
the realization of the great truth that each stratum of society is dependent upon 
every other, and that it is not only the privilege but the duty of each to help the 
one below to a greater enjoyment of the gift of life." 

It has also been proposed to call a meeting of a world-wide " Institute of Social 
Science" to meet on Jvme 15, 1915, the seven hundredth anniversary of the date 
of Magna Carta. 

The National Conservation Exposition will be held in the fall of 1913, at Knox- 
ville, Tenn. This exposition is planned in accordance with exposition history, 

especially to illustrate the modern idea of forecasting prospective 
National Con- development. It is intended to have exhibits of the resources 
servation Ex- in lands, forests, water, and mineral, and going one step farther 
position. to have exhibits of our natural human resources. Under human 

efficiency exhibits on health, education, and Home Economics 
will be made. The Home Economics program plans to exhibit {a) a model small 
dwelling properly furnished and cared for; {h) labor saving devices in the home; 
(c) demonstration meals publicly prepared and served by the domestic science 
classes of high schools and universities; {d) demonstrations of meat cuts; (e) 
demonstration of proper methods in marketing; (/) samples in domestic house- 
keeping; and (g) lectures on Home Economics. 

Miss Rosa Bouton, who has been head of the Home Economics Department 
in the University of Nebraska since its organization fourteen years ago, has recently 

resigned. 
Miss Bouton's The story of the simple beginning and rapid growth of this west- 
Work in em department of Home Economics is only one of many such 
Nebraska, interesting tales which might be related. The work in Nebraska, 
however, is peculiarly the result of one woman's initiative. Were 
Mrs. Ellen H. Richards hving, she could, as no one else, express the spirit 
of Miss Bouton's endeavor in this pioneer field, for Mrs. Richards was herself a 
pioneer. From her Miss Bouton received encouragement and inspiration at a 
time when educators were skeptical about this new subject in the curriculum. Aside 
from her work in connection with the University, Miss Bouton was interested in 
outside activities, and gave of her time and strength freely. Among these were 
the organization of a State Home Economics Association, plans for boys' and girls' 
clubs, lectures before farmers' institutes and women's clubs, and the introduction 
of domestic science in the Lincoln city schools and later in high schools throughout 
the state. Miss Bouton has pubhshed two in the series of Home Study Bulletins 
for the University of Nebraska, viz., "Convenient Kitchens" and "Cereals and 
How to Cook Them." 

We quote in part an appreciative article which appeared in the Nebraska State 
Journal of August 12, 191 2: 

"Miss Bouton came to Lincoln to study chemistry with Professor Nicholson, 
whom she had known at the Nebraska State Normal in Peru. She received two 
degrees from the University of Nebraska, the first with the class of 1891, and the 



19 1 2] News from the Field 505 

master's degree in 1903, both being won while she was teaching in the department 
of chemistry. WTien she graduated in 1891 she was made a regular member of 
the teaching force for the chemistry department. The following year she intro- 
duced a course in chemistry of foods, but it was not until 1898 that the university 
authorities were finally aroused to the need of general domestic training for girls. 
In the meantime Miss Bouton had been dividing her time between the regular 
classes in chemistry and those for the study of domestic chemistry, but on account 
of a petition from the Association of Collegiate Alumnae Miss Bouton was informed 
in that year that she had permission to start a School of Domestic Science, provided 
that she could do the teaching herself, as "money was harder to get than blood 
out of dry bones." Accordingly, after spending the summer in study at Boston 
at her own expense, the teacher of chemistry became in 1898 the sole instructor 
for the School of Domestic Science. A room was obtained in Mechanic Arts' Hall, 
where cupboards, table, a sink, and a stove were installed. To equip the labora- 
tor>' and provide supplies there was an appropriation of just $15, which was eked 
out by a small loan from the department of chemistrj'. 

"The school of Domestic Science at this time was a two years' course, open to 
any woman without special college requirements. During the first year there 
were seventeen students, ten in the school and seven from the university classes. 
In 191 2 the total number of students in the Home Economics Department, as the 
branch is now called, had increased to 310, 220 of these being in the college classes 
and ninety in the School of Agriculture. 

"As the school progressed, new branches of study were urgently needed, but 
the money to secure teachers with the proper training was never available. For 
instance, the apphcation for the addition of domestic art was granted, but Miss 
Bouton was again told that there was no money for a teacher of domestic art, and 
that if she wished to introduce such a course she must teach it. Accordingly she 
took another trip east and learned enough of the methods of other colleges to be 
able to teach the classes until a special teacher could be obtained. Thus, step by 
step, the course has been enlarged and broadened. 

"In 1906 an appropriation for the present building was secured. As the knowl- 
edge of the requirements for such a building was decidedly vague in the middle 
west, before the adoption of plans Miss Bouton visited successful schools of the 
kind, made a careful study of architectural features and of materials, the expense 
of travel being borne bj' herself. Everj'thing about the building was chosen to 
serve as an object-lesson to the students. The sinks in the kitchens were made of 
various material, to demonstrate practically the quahty of different substances 
for the purpose. In the furnishing of the sleeping and living rooms, examples 
of hard woods were introduced for educative purposes. The building was first 
used in 1908, and the first summer school was held there in 1909. Since that time 
the building has been regularly in use for eleven months of the year. 

"In 1906 the course of two years was changed to four, and the name became the 
Home Economics Group of the College of Agriculture. The building and equipment 
are now valued at $70,000 and the teaching force includes eight people. There 
will be many to credit with due honors for the future growth of the work, but there 
was but one pioneer to establish it." 



5o6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

To the Women^s Clubs of Washington: The Committee on Civics and Sanitation 
of the Housekeepers' Alliance is sending this appeal to all the Women's Clubs in 
Washington, asking if they will not join us in our efforts to secure 
Circular sent wrapped bread, by calling the attention of their members to the 
out by the insanitary conditions under which our bread is handled after it 
Housekeep- leaves the bakers' oven. 

ers' Alliance A moment's thought will convince anyone that food which 
of Washing- can neither be washed nor recooked before eating, should be so 
ton, D. C. protected that dirt, dust, disease germs and flies cannot have 
access to it. 

Even though the bakery wagons are enclosed at sides and rear, the front is 
often open, so gusts of germ laden dust blow onto the bread. 

When it is taken out it is piled into a basket by the driver, who has just thrown 
down the dirty reins, and sometimes he disobeys orders and carries it in his arms, 
pressed against his soiled clothing. 

It is often piled on the open counter, in grocery or market, where persons 
passing rub against it, and purchasers lay their soiled shopping bags or bundles 
on it, or handle it over to determine the texture. 

When the store or market is swept, there is a fresh consignment of dust and 
germs, as though there were not enough already. 

Bread passes through about six pairs of hands on its way to our tables. Those 
handling it may have colds, influenza, grippe, tuberculosis, or vice diseases, and 
leave the germs of these diseases chnging to it. 

Notice how soiled the hands of your marketman or groceryman are as he handles 
your bread. 

Many cities and even villages, where the bread is shipped in from a distance, 
have wrapped bread, and the price is not increased or the weight of the loaf dimin- 
ished. 

If the bread is replaced in the paraffine paper, it solves the problem of stale 
bread in the kitchen, as it keeps fresh so much longer. The Alliance has been 
trying for the past year to secure some wrapped bread in the city. 

We visited some of the large bakeries, and found them in a sanitary condition, 
and felt their bread was more hygienic than that baked in the average kitchen. 
The one thing needful is that it should be wrapped before it leaves the bakery. 

Flies are with us a good part of the year and it is a well established fact that flies 
carry typhoid fever and intestinal disease germs with them, and expose us to these 
diseases, when they crawl over our food. 

Flies killed more soldiers in the Spanish War than all the bullets of the enemy! 
And yet we calmly and deliberately buy bread, and other foods, with swarms of 
flies crawling over it! And how many of us ever remonstrate with out dealers? 

There is an ordinance in the District requiring meats and fruits to be protected 
from flies. Then why do we submit to the insanitary conditions that prevail here 
in fly time? When public opinion demands it, this ordinance will be complied 
with. 

Dealers who are using ice-cooled glass cases for their meats, tell us the saving 
more than pays the cost of the cases. One new model with sliding doors at the 
top is proving most satisfactory. The meat is kept cold even when the door is 
left open, as the cold air falls to the bottom of the case. 



19 1 2] News from the Field 507 

One of our large bakers in town has under consideration a new bread wrapping 
machine which is soon to be placed on the market. He hopes to install one of 
them in his bakery within a few months. The Housekeepers' Alliance has prom- 
ised to back the undertaking by advertising his wrapped bread. The press ha? 
been very helpful in giving publicity to our efforts, and in helping to create an inter- 
est in the matter. 

Pure food handled in a sanitary manner will do much towards eliminating pre 
ventable diseases. 

Georgia Robertson, 
Chairman of Committee on 
Civics and Sanitation of the Housekeepers' Alliance. 

The following lecture course for the season 1912-1913 has been announced by 
the Home Economics Section of the Maryland State Federation of Women's Clubs: 
Thursday, November 7, Weights and Measures, Dr. F. Reichmann, 
Maryland superintendent of weights and measures, State of New York; 

State Federa- Thursday, December 5, Household Accounts with Simplified Meth- 
tion of ods, Mr. H. L. Stevenson, auditor, Bell Telephone Company; 

Women's Thursday, January 9, Round Table on Weights and Measures 

Clubs. with Reports on Use of Scales by Housekeepers, led by Mrs. John 

J. Abel; Thursday, February 6, Marketing — With a Report of a 
Baltimore Cooperative Buj-ing Club, Mrs. Arma B. Scott, Philadelphia North Amer- 
ican; Thursday, March 6, Savings — Saving Banks, Mr. Edward L. Robinson; Life 
Insurance, Mr. C. T. Thurman; Building and Loan Associations, Mr. John Hanni- 
bal; Thursday, April 3, Laws of Inheritance in Maryland, Laws Affecting Domestic 
Service in Mar>'land, Hon. .\lfred S. Niles. 

The Home Economics Association of Connecticut was formed in October, 1909, 
for the purpose of bringing about greater cooperation among the departments of 
domestic science and domestic art in the schools of the state. The 
Connecticut late Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, first president of the American Home 
Home Economics Association addressed the preliminary meeting. 

Economics Two regular meetings are held each year. The May meeting 

Association, can be held in any city or town in the state. In October a meeting 
is held alternately in Hartford and New Haven in connection 
with the State Teachers' Convention. 

The Association has been fortunate in obtaining interesting and enthusiastic 
speakers for each meeting. The annual spring meeting was held in Waterbury 
at the Institute of Craft and Industry. The subject of the day was "The Relation 
of the Teacher of Household Arts to the Home of the Pupils." 

The .\ssociation has been asked to have an exhibit at the Connecticut Fair, 
Charter Oak Park, Hartford, Corm. This exhibit will be in connection with the 
Child Welfare section. 

The school authorities of the city of Boston have taken action to name one of 
The Ellen H. the new public schools of the city "The Ellen H. Richards 
Richards School." .K portrait of Mrs. Richards has been presented to the 

School. school by some of her Boston friends. 



5o8 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

A notable exhibit has been announced to take place in Chicago at the First 
Regiment Armoty, November 18 to 23, for the benefit of the school of Domestic 
Arts and Science. On the large floor space that has been rented, 
Home Makers firms representing household appliances, foods, etc., will exhibit. 
Exhibit and An interesting program will be furnished by well known lecturers, 
Conference, and various organizations as the Chicago Woman's Club and the 
College Club will serve tea during the afternoons of the week. 

An admittance fee will be charged and it is hoped to realize a large sum to meet 
the needs of the school which was formerly the Woman's Department of the Armour 
Institute. 

A portrait of Mrs. Adelaide Hoodless was presented to the Macdonald Institute 

on October 3 by the Women's Institutes of Ontario. Accompanying the portrait 

Th AH 1 irt ^^^ ^ bronze tablet, suitably inscribed, presented by the former 

„ J. students of the Ontario Normal School of Domestic Science and 

,, .IX Art and of the Macdonald Institute. To Mrs. Hoodless above 

Memorial at 1 1 1 .^ • ,tt , x • 

- _ , , J anyone else do the Ontario Women s institutes, now so well known 

Macdonald . ,, , , , . . . ! 

.J. m all parts of the country, owe their origin. An account of these 

Institutes will appear shortly in the Journal. In addition to 

being the originator of the Women's Institutes idea, Mrs. Hoodless was pioneer in 

the introduction of household science and manual training into the schools of 

Canada, and it was largely through the efforts of Mrs. Hoodless that Macdonald 

Institute was founded in 1903, her efforts in the formation of a normal school of 

domestic science and art at Hamilton leading to the amalgamation with the Guelph 

institution. A short account of the life and work of Mrs. Hoodless appeared in the 

Journal for June, 1910. 

A second course in domestic science will be offered the women of Maryland from 

January 13-18, 1913. The advance program gives the following lectures: Fibers 

and Textiles, Bread Making, Sewing and Dress Planning, House 

. Furnishings, Planning Meals, Mrs. C. W. Foulke of the Ohio 

_ State University; Household Chemistry, Bacteriology, Dr. C. O. 

Appleman of the Maryland Agricultural College; Disposal of 

Waste, Dr. W. L. Tahaferro, Maryland Agricultural College; Fireless Cooker, Milk, 

Miss Mary A. Burnite, New York City; and Ventilation, Mrs. H. J. Patterson. 

Visits of inspection have been planned to the laboratory where the serum for hog 

diolera is prepared, the sewage plant and the dairy barn of the Maryland State 

Agricultural Experiment Station. 

During one month of the summer recess a School of Domestic Science for Women 

was conducted on the grounds of the Canton Christian College. This school was 

entirely in charge of some of the Christian College students, and 
Canton ^ , . , . ..... , . 

V _, grew out of a desire on their part to share with their wives and sis- 

_ ,, ters the educational benefits there received. Assistance was given 

tian College. ^^ ^^^ Americans on the place and by outside lecturers. The 
daily program included Bible study, a small amount of academic work, and lectures 
on such subjects as child study, nursing, cooking, sanitation, physiology, and hygiene. 



19 1 2] News from the Field 509 

The laboratory method was used. Single lectures were given on house decoration, 
the care and feeding of infants, exercise, care of the teeth, etc. The hope is that 
this beginning may be carried on to a larger and more useful work in years to come. 

The School of Practical Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University, ofiFers 

for 1912-1913, beginning October 21, two evening courses on Textiles consisting 

of twenty-five sessions. I, Silks. Silk Mixtures and Merchandis- 

„ ing. II, Woolens and Worsteds. The first series will be given by 

tile Courses o / kj ^ 

_ , Mr. Tames Chittick, silk manufacturer, author of "Silk Manufac- 

of Teacucrs 

ture and Its Problems." Among the topics outlined for the course 

are: Silk- worm rearing; silk reeling; raw silk; spun silk or schappe; 
system of counts and numbering; skein-dyeing, and piece-dying; fabrication of goods; 
designing; standard market fabrics; imperfection in goods; silk printing; ribbon 
manufacturing; pile fabrics; power and its transmission; system for cost verification; 
management and financing; merchandising. The lectures on Woolens and Worsteds 
will be given by Mr. Theodor Quasebart, graduate of the Higher Technical School 
of the Textile Industry at Aachen, Germany, himself a textile designer. Among 
the topics of this course are: Classification of raw materials; animal fibers; sheep's 
wool; classification of wools; spinning; designing; finishing and dyeing; cloth con- 
struction; general discussions: In regard to mill operation, labor situation, labor 
troubles, speculation in merchandise, deliver>' of merchandise, merchandising. 

The question of an honorary society for the women at the Michigan Agricul- 
tural College has been considered for some time. In 1909-10 letters were sent out 

regarding such a society, and it was found that none existed. The 
Omicron Nu, faculty of the Department of Home Economics took up the matter. 
Honorary Soci-and finally presented a recommendation, with a proposed constitu- 
ety, Michigan tion to the college faculty which was adopted. The new society 
Agricultural is known as Omicron Nu, taken from the Greek, meaning to "man- 
College, age a household." The object as stated in the constitution is to 

further scholarship and Home Economics among its members. The 
constitution is based upon those of Sigma Xi and Phi Beta Kappa, to both of which 
women are admitted. The Alpha Chapter, as the chapter at the college is called, 
is in a flourishing condition, and at the first regular meeting of the present scholastic 
year initiated two faculty members and four seniors. Other colleges have made 
inquiries and are taking steps towards securing charters. A society of this kind 
should meet a need in those institutions where Home Economics courses, equivalent 
to the usual four-year college courses, are offered. 

The University of CaUfornia has recently added two new nutrition courses to 
the work of the Home Economics department, one Feeding Infants and Children, 

and the other a seminar on Dietaries for Institutions, Asylums, etc. 
University of Miss Mary- E. L. Kissell has been appointed associate professor 
California. of domestic art, and her work will include lectures on textiles, 

household design of primitive peoples, and household design in 
modem homes. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

The Life of Ellen H. Richards. Caroline L. Hunt. Whitcomb and Barrows, 
Boston. $1.50. 

The biography of Ellen H. Richards is the record of a remarkable life spent dur- 
ing a period of rapid and far-reaching social changes which created a demand for a 
radical readjustment on the part of individuals, particularly of women, to new con- 
ditions. Some readers (and this will include members of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association and those who are following professionally in the path where 
Mrs. Richards led) will approach the book with interest centered upon her personal- 
ity, for such workers feel with gratitude that they are building upon a foundation 
which she laid and tha t much of the progress which they are able to make is due to 
the public opinion which she created and to the removal by her of the barriers of 
prejudice and conservatism. Others not immediately connected with the move- 
ments which she inaugurated and who had no personal contact with her will doubt- 
less take up the book chiefly to learn what light it sheds upon the period in which 
she lived. 

Whatever the mode of approach, readers will hardly fail to be impressed with 
her power and with the fine adjustment of her activities to the needs of her genera- 
tion. Those whom the passing of older religious sanctions is setting adrift will be 
helped to find their bearings as they learn how by "keeping her ears open to the 
whisperings and her eyes clear for the inner light," she was able to merge a girl- 
hood of strict religious conformity into a womanhood of equally passionate service 
of humanity. Her steadfast purpose " to keep the body in good condition to do the 
bidding of the spirit," which was formed while she was in college and which later 
became the keynote of her teaching, gave vitality and continuity to her inner life in 
an age of unsettled creeds. 

Ellen Swallow Richards was born late in the year 1842 on a farm near an isolated 
village in northern Massachusetts. At this time, the great industrial changes 
which later revolutionized women's work had hardly begun to affect the household. 
Under the tutelage of a mother who was a skillful housekeeper, she was thoroughly 
trained in all the domestic arts. When, therefore, she urged in later years that 
instruction in these arts be introduced into the lower schools, it was with full under- 
standing drawn from experience of their practical as well as their educational value. 
We learn from repeated statements of hers quoted in the book that she believed 
that household tasks performed in one's youth give a muscular training for which it 
is difficult to find a substitute in later hfe. "Housework," she said, "is to be pre- 
pared for by manual exercise, and housekeeping by mental e.xercise." Again she 
said, "Intelligence does not make up for lack of early muscle training." 

Mrs. Richards' exceptional forcefulness and steadfastness of purpose were first 
demonstrated by her determination to go to college. Up to the time she was 
twenty- three, there were no colleges open to women either in New England or in 
other parts of the eastern United States. In September, 1865, Vassar Female 



1912] Books and Literature 511 

College, which later became Vassar College, was opened and she immediately began 
to save money with which to get a college education. She taught school, sewed, 
made "wax flowers," the then popular form of amateur art work, and became assist- 
ant to her father in the village store and post office all with a view to making money. 
At the same time she was reading and studying, and in the fall of 1868 she was able 
to enter the junior class of Vassar. During her college course, she wrote long weekly 
letters to her mother and father giving minute details of the circumstances of her 
life. E.xtracts from these letters have been brought together in the book, and form 
what is perhaps the best record ever published of life in a woman's college during 
the early years of higher education for women. 

Entering college at the age of twenty-six and leaving it at the age of twenty-eight 
after having made an exceptionally good record in languages and literature, it seems 
remarkable that Mrs. Richards should not have fallen completely under the spell 
of that form of education. She was original in thought, however, and soon her criti- 
cal mind was turned upon the academic training of the times to question its ultimate 
value. Circumstances helped her to formulate her criticisms. When she returned 
from college, she found her father struggling with a new business, that of the manu- 
facture of artificial stone, and needing more knowledge of the composition of the 
materials which he was handling. She had taken all the scientific courses but one 
offered in Vassar, had had the advantage of training under Maria Mitchell, and also 
under Prof. Charles Farrar, a chemist who was ahead of his time in his desire to 
make his science of practical value. But all the scientific instruction then offered 
in an undergraduate course could carry her only a short way toward a thorough 
understanding of any one of the sciences, and she immediately began to look about 
for more thorough instruction in chemistry — a subject in which she had become 
especially interested. The efforts which she made to open the doors which had 
hitherto been closed to women, and which finally resulted in her being accepted as 
a special student in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, form by no means 
the least interesting portion of the book. In January, 1871, she began her work 
there, becoming the first woman to be admitted to any strictly scientific school in 
America. 

Fortunately, shortly after she entered the Institute one of her professors, William 
Ripley Nichols, was chosen to do the chemical work for an extensive examination 
of the water supplies of Massachusetts for the State Board of Health (the first board 
of the kind to be established in the countrjO and he chose her as his assistant. Thus, 
she was led to the pursuit of sanitary chemistry to which the greater part of her 
professional labors in after life were devoted. Because she was so widely known as 
the leader of the movement for introducing instruction in Home Economics into the 
schools, she is often thought to have followed this work as a profession but, in reality, 
her activities in this field were performed in what she was in the habit of calling her 
"playtime." From 1884 until her death in 191 1, she was instructor in sanitary 
chemistry' in the Institute of Technology. During this time, she had an important 
part in a second and more extensive survey of the waters of the state, which con- 
tinued for a year and during which time the waters were analyzed monthly. In this 
survey and in her work as a water analyst, some of it done for fees but much of it 
solely for the public good, she made a most important contribution to public health. 

She had been admitted to the Institute as a special favor but she was not content 
to enjoy its advantages without endeavoring to secure them for other women. 



512 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

In 1876, therefore, she began an active campaign for a Woman's Laboratory in 
connection with the institution. In this, she finally succeeded through the coopera- 
tion of an organization of public-spirited women in Boston, known as the Women's 
Education Association. For eight years from 1876 to 1884, Mrs. Richards not only 
gave her services to the Woman's Laboratory but contributed to its support an 
average of a thousand dollars a year from her earnings as an analyst. 

It was in 1876 also that she became connected with the first organized attempt 
in this country to teach by correspondence, "The Society to Encourage Studies at 
Home." 

Repeatedly in her correspondence-teaching she read of study interrupted on 
account of sickness. To this and her connection with the Woman's Laboratory, 
which showed her how many girls were physically unable to carry on the work they 
attempted, may be ascribed her enthusiasm for popularizing the teaching of hygiene. 
To quote from the biography "Conviction that the world was full of unnecessary 
sickness, and that men and women were falling far short of the joy of living and of 
doing which ought to be theirs, grew upon Mrs. Richards \vith her e.xperiences 
in the Woman's Laboratory and with her insight through correspondence into the 
home life of America. With the conviction came the desire to have a part in remov- 
ing this deplorable handicap. "W^e must see to that," she once wrote in her diary, 
after recording a grievious social injustice which had been brought to her attention. 
She did see to it in the matter of preventable disease, for from the moment of her 
own conviction she labored unceasingly wherever and with whomsoever she saw an 
opportunity to improve the material conditions of living. She came in the course 
of time to be prominently identified with the Home Economics movement. But 
this was only part of the great, absorbing interest of her life, which included the 
bettering of conditions in the community, in the school and in the factory, as well as 
in the home. This larger and more inclusive interest, though neither named nor 
defined by her until shortly before her death, early took full possession of her powers, 
and the last thirty years of her life were given to developing the " science of controll- 
able environment," for which she coined the name "Euthenics." 

Because of her deep-seated belief that women should look deeper into the nature of 
the common things of life with which they were constantly dealing, Mrs. Richards 
endeavored to direct the work in the Woman's Laboratory toward household chem- 
istr)^ It was while she was making this effort that she was called to Poughkeepsie 
by Maria Mitchell to address the Woman's Club of that city. There in the winter 
of 1879 she read a paper on "Chemistry in Relation to Household Economy," 
which was so much ahead of its time that it could be acceptably delivered before a 
body of intelligent women today without arousing the criticism that its recommen- 
dations were out of date. This address, from which extracts are given in the biog- 
raphy, is only one evidence that Mrs. Richards was far ahead of her time in her 
thoughts and interests. 

Scientific management was also known to Mrs. Richards and practiced long before 
the term was coined, a fact which is indicated not only by the directions whi.h she 
gave to students in the laboratory' for saving m.otions but also by the conduct of 
her own house. 

The chapter which deals with Mrs. Richards in her home serves to refute the oft- 
repeated statement that a woman can not carry on a profession and maintain a 
satisfactory home at the same time. In June, 1875, Ellen Swallow was married 



1912] Books and Literature 513 

to Prof. Robert H. Richards, head of the Department of Mining Engineering in the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and together they established a home in 
the nearby suburb of Jamaica Plain which became not only a model of good house- 
keeping and healthful living conditions, but also a center of hospitahty for the 
faculty and students of the Institute and for their friends. 

Space is not sufficient to tell of the movements of which Mrs. Richards was the 
originator. The New England Kitchen of Boston, of which she was the founder, was 
an experiment in serving well-cooked food at low prices. The Rumford Kitchen 
at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893 of which she had charge, was the first impor- 
tant effort made in this country to demonstrate to people at large the fact that there 
is a science underlying nutrition. She was instrumental in founding school lunches 
and an organizer of other enterprises which had for their object a better utilized 
food supply. 

She was a charter member of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae and also 
of the Naples Table Association and was connected with many other organizations 
which have had an important part in opening opportunities for higher education 
to women. She was back of an important investigation made in Boston of the 
sanitary conditions of the public school houses. 

In 1899, Mrs. Richards with Mr. and Mrs. Melvil Dewey organized the Lake 
Placid Conference on Home Economics which later became the American Home 
Economics Association and has brought together into an effective working group 
the scattered forces which are making for better homes. The journal of the Asso- 
ciation was the object of her special interest during the last months of her life. 

In this record of Mrs. Richards' life, wTitten by Miss Caroline L. Hunt, there is 
evidence on every page that it is the outcome of profound admiration and the love 
of a disciple. This obvious devotion will be easily understood by the thousands of 
those who are indebted to Mrs. Richards for help, guidance, and encouragement. 
There is evidence that the writer has held herself under restraint for fear that the 
value of the narrative may be lost in praise. In spite of this restraint, members of 
the Home Economics Association who read this straightforward and direct story of 
a remarkable life will find between the lines the unbounded admiration and gratitude 
which they share. 

The attractive form in which the book appears is due to the publishers, Mr. 
Frank WTiitcomb and Miss Mary Barrows, of the firm of Whitcomb and Barrows, 
who in the publishers' note acknowledge their indebtedness to Mrs. Richards for 
"constant and innumerable kindnesses" and who state that "through seven years 
of development their best business asset was her good will." 

The book is illustrated with photogravures, many half-tones, and reproductions 
of pen-and-ink sketches. Particularly interesting are the portraits of Mrs. Richards. 
The book will appeals to lovers of biography as well as to those who have a personal 
or a professional interest in the subject as it will attract young readers who will 
profit by the message of a life of earnest purpose and remarkable accomplishment. 

Home Training Bulletins. The series of Home Training Bulletins issued by 
Professor McKeever are on the following subjects: No. i, The Cigarette Smoking 
Boy; No. 2, Teaching the Boy to Save; No. 3, Training the Girl to Help in the 
Home; No. 4, Assisting the Boy in the Choice of a Vocation; No. 5, A Better 
Crop of Boys and Girls; No. 6, Training the Boy to Work; No. 7, Teaching the 



514 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Girl to Save. Other contemplated numbers are: Instruction in Regard to Sex; 
Training for Moral Reliance; Social Companions for the Young; Employment 
for the Boy During Vacation. Free (2 cents postage each) to all persons who 
ask for them. One cent each prepaid in quantities for free distribution. Address, 
Wm. A. McKeever, Manhattan, Kan. 

Every pamphlet of this series is sane, practical and sympathetic. Parents 
will seek in vain for wiser treatment of these important subjects. 

Women of Tomorrow. By Willian Hard. Baker Taylor Company, New York. 

The five chapters. Love Deferred, Learning for Earning, Learning for Spending, 
the Wasters and Mothers of the World are reprints of articles that appeared in 
Everybody's Magazine and their journahstic jauntiness of style has not been mod- 
ified. Those interested in Home Economics acknowledge their debt of gratitude 
to Mr. Hard for his skill in bringing these subjects to the attention of the average 
reader. 

In Learning for Spending he shows his grasp of the modern understanding of 
the function of women and the need of training for it. The training of the adult 
by Correspondence Courses, Home Makers Conferences, Farmers Bulletins and 
advance courses in colleges he looks on with especial favor because the lessons come 
at the time when they can be carried forward into action. The Wasters shows with 
delightful irony how all that is good in a girl may atrophy by relieving her by false 
kindness "from struggle, from effort, from discipline and from the sorrow of pain 
that brings the joy of accomplishment." 

On Sex Hygiene. Dr. E. B. Lowrey's books on sex hygiene, False Modesty, 
Confidences, Truth, and Herself are the titles of four books on Sex Hygiene pub- 
lished by Forbes and Company of Chicago which deal with the subject with frank- 
ness and yet with delicacy. They have the approval of reputable physicians. 

Home Progress. This new journal, still in its first year, is published monthly 
by Houghton, Mifflin Company of Boston as part of the Home Progress Reading 
Courses. According to the plan as outlined by the editor there will be in addition 
to special articles " a series of questions and suggestions intended to bring out the 
experience of the members on a wide variety of subjects connected with the wel- 
fare of children." Letters of enquiry are personally answered. This liberal plan 
for the home education of the parent seems to be carried out faithfully and with 
an understanding of how great may be the perplexity of the persons of average 
intelligence who is being bombarded in popular books and journals by ill-assorted 
advice on this most important subject. 

The editor is Miss Elizabeth McCracken, whose sympathetic studies of the 
American Child are already familiar to us. Sympathy, indeed, is the keynote 
of this new venture, the sympathy which brings understanding of the problem 
and which never degenerates into mawkishness. The books for supplementary 
reading are admirably chosen. 



INDEX TO VOLUME IV. 



1912. 



Accounting for Institutions, Uniform, 
Wm. Morse Cole, 39 

Administration Section Meeting, Lake 
Placid, N. Y., 372; Members pres- 
ent at, 374 

Agriculture, Graduate School of, Fifth 
Session, 171. 

Alcott Home at Concord, The, 172 

American Home Economics Associa- 
tion: Lake Placid Meeting, i; 
Business Session of Lake Placid 
Meeting, 83; Minutes of Fourth 
Annual Meeting, go; Program of 
Fourth Annual Meeting, 102; Secre- 
tary's Report, 94; Treasurer's 
Report, 95; Minutes of Council, 
105; Address of Welcome to, P. P. 
Claxton, 180; Summer Meetings, 
301 ; Administration Section Meet- 
ing, 372; National Education As- 
sociation Section Meeting, 384; 
Future Meetings of, 397; Notice of 
Fifth Annual Meeting, 498 

Andrews, B. R., Miss Catherine 
Beecher, The Pioneer in Home 
Economics, 211 

Arnold, Mary Elliott, A Cafeteria 
for College Students, 243 

Arnold, Sarah Louise, Concerning 
Institutional Management, 79 

Balderston, L. Ray, Opportunities 
for Teachers and Specialists in 
Laundry Work, 166 

Beecher, Miss Catherine, the Pioneer 
in Home Economics, B. R. Andrews, 

2X1 

Bell, Viola M., and Bertha M. 
Miller, The Domestic Science 
Department as a Social Center, 162 



Berry, Josephine T., Losses in the 
Cooking of Vegetables, 405 

Bibliography of Home Economics Liter- 
ature, Mary D. S. Rose, 84, 174, 

297. 369, 499 

Biochemistry: Its Place in the College 
for Women, Mary L. Foster, 126 

Blohm, Anna F., Discussion on Eco- 
nomic and Scientific Phases of 
Domestic Art, 290 

Blunt, Katherine, Teaching of Sani- 
tary Chemistry in a Woman's 
College, 324 

Books and Literature: Abstract of 
Amended Pure Food and Drugs 
Law, Rose and McLin, 201 ; Ameri- 
can Catfishes: Habits, Culture, 
and Commercial Importance, Ken- 
dall, 196; Arrangement of the 
Kitchen in Institutions for the 
Care of Large Numbers, Stern- 
berg, 203; Bacterial Condition of 
Protected and Unprotected Foods 
at Restaurants, Meat Markets, 
Grocery Stores, Bakeshops, and 
Fruit Stores, Barnard, 202; Banana 
Flour as a Food for Infants, Prit- 
chard, 197; Beef, Its Quality and 
Classification, Villain, 196; British 
Rural Life and Labor, Heath, 194; 
Building a Concrete Porch Floor, 
Wing, 310; Business Side of Farm- 
ing, Bexell, 311; Camp Cookery, 
Kephart, 194; Care of Milk in the 
Home, 196; Chemical Composition 
of Kaffir Corn, Baird and Francis, 
197; Chinese Wages and Cost of 
Living, Dorsey, 195; Commercial 
Food Products of Special Dietetic 
Value, Reis, 200; Cornell Reading 



5i6 



The Journal of 'Home Economics 



[December 



Courses, Van Rensselaer and 
Young, 204; Cost of Living in 
Mexico, Kenna, 195; Cost of Living 
in Siberia, Maynard, 195; Deter- 
mination of Cotton and Linen, 
Physical, Chemical, and Micro- 
scopic Methods, Herzog, 204; Diet 
at Wycliffe College, Stonehouse, 
Broadbent, 194; Dietetic Value of 
Fruit, Lazenby, 197; Discoveries 
of Social History from 1200 to 1910, 
D'Avenel, 195; Disorders of Purin 
Metabolism, Reed and Walker, 200; 
Educational Status of Nursing, 
Nutting, 309; Effect of Foodstuffs 
in the Causation and Prevention of 
Dental Caries, Wallace, 201 ; Enforc- 
ing the Provisions of the Pure Food 
and Drugs Law, Rose and McLin, 
201; Exclusion of Adulterated, 
Sophisticated, and Inferior Mate- 
rial from Commerce as a Result of 
Strict Control of Food SuppUes, 
Juckenack, 202; Fibers Used in 
Textile and Allied Industries, 
Mitchell and Prideaus, 203; Food 
of Factory Operatives, Fischer, 194; 
Food and Feeding, 193; Food for 
the Invalid and the Convalescent, 
Gibbs, 309; Food of Patagonian 
Natives, Furlong, 195; Food Pre- 
paration and its Relation to the 
Development of Efficient Personal- 
ity in the Home, Rockwood, 193; 
Formation of Tartar from the 
Products Derived from the Car- 
bono-phosphates of Saliva, Barille, 
201; Frozen Meat Industry in 
the Argentine Republic, Berges, 
196; Gospel of the Kingdom: 
Studies in Social Reform and WTiat 
to Do, 207; Greasy Marks and 
Methods for Removing Them — 
Stains and Their "Cures," 310; 
Heat — Insulating Efficiency of Va- 
cuum-Jacketed Bottles, Somerville, 
203; History, Development, and 
Statistics of Milk Charities in the 



U. S., Kerr, 196; Housekeeping 
Notes, Kittredge, 205; How Phila- 
delphia Teaches Concerning Dis- 
tant Countries, 205; Ice-Cream, 
McGill, 199; Importance of Com- 
mon Salt in MetaboHsm, Strauss, 
201; Industrial Education, Win- 
slow, 206; Ins and Outs of Eating 
Houses, Mather, 203; Inspection 
Work in Caddo and Other Parishes, 
202; List of Books on Domestic 
Science in the Public Library of 
the City of Boston, 205; List of 
State Directors of Farmer's Insti- 
tutes and Farmer's Institute Lec- 
turers of the U. S., 207; Magazine 
of Domestic Economy, 205; Man- 
ual for Army Cooks, Sharpe, 194; 
Alelting Point of Fats as it Affects 
the Speed with which the Stomach 
is Emptied, Tangl and Erdelyi, 
200; Microscopical Study of Cereal 
Foods, Kendell, 196; New Ice 
Chest, Zelmanowitz, 310; Nutri- 
tion and Increased Cost of Living, 
Lichtenfelt, 195; Occurrence and 
Survival of Microorganisms on 
the Surface of Pastry and Confec- 
tionery Exposed on Streets and in 
PubUc Places, Maurel, 203 ; Plimib- 
ing and Household Sanitation, 
Putnam, 204; Preparation of Sauer- 
kraut or Sour Cabbage, Schilier- 
Tietz, 197; Principles of Human 
Nutrition, Jordan, 192; Principles 
and Practice of Ice-Cream Making, 
Washburn, 198; Process of Dis- 
infection by Chemical Agencies 
and Hot Water, Chick, 310; Pro- 
tein Requirements; or "Do we 
Eat Too Much Meat?" Tibbies, 
200; Pure Food Work in Westfield, 
Mass., Wagner, 202; Purin Con- 
tent of Common Articles of Food, 
Arnold and Larrabee, 200; Quick 
Lunches for Efficiency and Health, 
Lattimore, 194; Rations of the 
Army of Aragon in 1285, Ballard, 



I9I2] 



Index to Volume IV 



S17 



195; Recipes for Tomatoes, Pep- 
pers, and Cucumbers, Hyde, 197; 
Rules and Regulations for the En- 
forcement of the (Florida) Pure 
Food and Drugs Law, McLin and 
Rose, 201; Sanitary Inspections, 
202; Sanitation in Bakeries and 
Restaurant Kitchens, Ball, 202; 
Simple Tests for Food Purity, 
Bastin, 202; Solubility of Zinc 
Electroplate in Lemonade and 
Citric Acid Solutions, Barnard and 
Bishop, 199; Some Questions of 
Metabolism and Nutrition, Gigon, 
200; Soy Bean and Its Use for 
Food Purposes, ^Muschler, 197; 
Standards of Food Products in 
Commerce, McGill, 310; Studies 
in the Economic Relations of 
Women, 206; Study of the Com- 
position of Sausage, Pautet, 196; 
Study of Food, Van Zile, 193; 
Studies of the Microscopical Ex- 
amination of Fibers, particularly 
Linen and Hemp, for Technical 
Purposes, 204; Syllabus of House- 
hold Management, Furst, 204; 
Thoughts on the Action of the 
EnzjTnes, with Special Reference 
to the Nature of Pepsin, Hancock, 
311; Value of Utah \Vheat for 
Bread-Making Purposes, Stewart, 
197; Vocational Education, 205; 
What Children Should Eat, Green, 
193; What Constitutes Good Meals 
for the Average American Home, 
Patterson, 193; WTiite List of Food 
Manufacturers, Allyn, 203. 

Book Reviews: Bulletins on Home 
Training, Wm. McKeever, 513; 
Home Progress Magazine, 514; Life 
of Ellen H. Richards, Caroline L. 
Hunt, 510; The Women of Tomor- 
row, Wm. Hard, 514. 

Books, Some Recent on Home Econo- 
mics, 179, 311. 

Bradley, Amy Alois, ^Market Inspec- 
tion Work of the Women's Munic- 
ipal League, 75 



Bread, The Flour and Yeast in, Flor- 
ence I. Dudley, 255 

Bruere, Martha Bensley, Relation 
of Household Administration to 
PubUc Utilities, 433 

Bryant, Louise S., General Develop- 
ment and Present Status of the 
School- Feeding Movement, 472 

Bull, Mary L., Extension Work in 
Minnesota, 159; The Rural School 
Warm Lunch, 477 

Cafeteria for College Students, Mary 
Elliott Arnold, 243 

Cakes, A Study of, Ava B. Milam, 262 

Charts, Graphic, Melvil Dewey, 55 

Chemistry, Sanitary, Teaching of in a 
Woman's College, Katherine Blunt, 
324 

Claxton, p. p.. Address of Welcome to 
the American Home Economics 
Association, 180 

Cole, Wm. Morse, Uniform Account- 
ing for Institutions, 39; Report of 
Committee on Uniform Account- 
ing for Institutions, 448 

Corbett, Florence R., Practice Fields 
for Students in Dietary Adminis- 
tration, 413 

Craig, Agnt:s H., Report and Recom- 
mendations on Domestic Art Edu- 
cation, 270 

Day, Helen ^Iarion, Practical Meth- 
ods for Teaching the Nutritive 
Value and Cost of Food, 164 

Dew^y, An'NIE, Food Administration, 2 

De\\'ey, Melvil, Graphic Charts, 55 

Diet Kitchen, The, Mabel C. Little, 
421 

Dietitian Housekeeper in the Hospital 
Field, The, Mary A. Lindsley, 425 

Dietitian and Physician, The Coopera- 
tion of, E. Grace McCullough, 428 

DiNWiDDiE, EuiLY W., Tenement House 
Supervision, 51 

Documents, State and Municipal as 
Sources of Information, C. F. 
Langworthy, 59 



5i8 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Domestic Art: 

Discussion on Economic and Scien- 
tific Phases of, Anna F. Blohm, 
290; Esthetically Considered, Mary 
W. Shackleford, 282; From the 
Standpoint of Economics, Gertrude 
Van Hoesen, 278; Report and 
Recommendations on Domestic 
Art Education, Agnes H. Craig, 
270; What Should Constitute a 
Well-Balanced Course in? Sadie 
Swenson, 293 

Domestic Science Department as the 
Social Center of the School, The, 
Bertha M. Miller and Viola M. 
Bell, 162. 

Dress Standards, Better, Mrs. John C. 
Hessler, 469 

DxJDLEY, Florence T., The Flour and 
Yeast in Bread, 255 

Editorials : Administration Section Meet- 
ing, 187; C. B. I. A. H., 305; Fed- 
eral Legislation, 186; Graduate 
School of Home Economics, 186; 
How to Begin the Bureau, 306; 
Increased Fee for Membership, 
108; Lake Placid Meeting of Admin- 
istration Section, 106; Reports of 
Summer Meetings, 390; Research 
and Home Economics, 392; Rich- 
ards Home Economics Fund, 109; 
Richards Memorial Fund, 397, 493; 
Spending of the Income, 303; Sum- 
mer Meetings, 389; Technical Op- 
portunities in Home Economics, 
390; Value of the Journal, 303 

Educational Suggestions from European 
Life, Edith Greer, 222 

Extension Work in Minnesota, Mary 
L. Bull, 159 

Feeding of Young Children, Some Im- 
portant Considerations in, E. V. 
McCollmn, 133 

Felt, E. Ported, Control of Insect 
Pests in Institutions, 16 

Food Administration, Annie Dewey, 2 



Food Preparation in College Classes, 
Elementary Work in: Elementary 
Cookery, Mary P. Van Zile, 235; 
Work in Teachers College, May 
B. Van Arsdale, 230; Work in the 
University of Tennessee, Catherine 
A. Mulligan, 235 

Foster, Mary L., Biochemistry: Its 
Place in the College for Women, 1 26 

GiLBEETH, Frank B., Scientific Man- 
agement in the Home, 438 

GooDSELL, Willystine, A Plea for His- 
torical Courses on the Home, in 

Graduate School of Agriculture, Fifth 
Session, 171; of Home Economics, 
170 

Greer, Edith, Educational Sugges- 
tions from European Life, 222 

GuNTHER, Emma H., Practice Fields 
in Household and Institutional 
Management, 362 

Hessler, Mrs. John C, Better Dress 
Standards, 469 

Hollister, Helen, Novel Courses at 
Mechanics Institute, 167 

Holt, Elizabeth G., Negro Industrial 
Training in the Schools of Augusta, 
Ga., 315 

Home, A Plea for Historical Courses on 
the, Willystine Goodsell, in 

Home Economics: In 191 2, Isabel Be- 
vier, 90; In the Agricultural Col- 
lege, Jessie M. Hoover, 150; 
Extension Work in Kansas in, 
Mary P. Van Zile, 155. 

Home-Makers Course, Possibilities of 
a, Juniata L. Shepperd, 147 

Hoover, Jessie M., Home Economics 
in the Agricultural College, 150 

Household Art from the Standpoint of 
Economics, Gertrude Van Hoesen, 
278 

Household Experiment Station at Colo- 
nia, N. J., The, 267 

Hunt, Agnes, The Lunch-Basket Prob- 
lem, 246 



I9I2] 



Index to Volume IV 



S19 



Income, The $500, $1000, and $2000, 
Mary S. Snow, 353 

Ingersoll, Blanche, Possibility of Kaf- 
fir Corn for Human Food, 145 

Insect Pests in Institutions, Control of, 
E. Porter Felt, 16 

Institutional Management, Concern- 
ing, Sarah Louise Arnold, 79 

Kaffir Corn. Possibility of for Human 
Food, Blanche Ingersoll, 145 

Keeley, Royal R., Principles of Man- 
agement Applied to Scientific Man- 
agement, 74 

KiTTREDGE, Mabel H., Report of the 
New York School Lunch Com- 
mittee, 482 

Lake Placid Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association, i 

Langworthy, C. F., State and Mu- 
nicipal Documents as Sources of 
Information, 59; Respiration Calo- 
rimeter, The, 57 

Laundry Problem in Xew York City, 
The, Helen Woodford Pratt, 337 

Laundry Work, Opportunities in for 
Teachers and Specialists, Ray Bal- 
derston, 166 

LiNDSLEY, Mary A., The Housekeeper 
Dietitian in the Hospital Field, 425 

Little, Mabel C, The Diet Kitchen, 
421 

Losses in the Cooking of Vegetables, 
Josephine T. Beny, 405 

Lunch-Basket Problem, The, Agnes 
Hunt, 246 

Lunchroom in Business, The, Gertrude 
Sanborn, 9 

McCoLLOM, E. v.. Some Important 
Considerations in the Feeding of 
Young Children, 133 

McCuxLOUGH, E. Grace, Cooperation 
of Dietitian and Physician, 428 

Marketing Facilities and the Cost of 
Living, Edward E. Pratt, 329 

Market Inspection Work of the Wo- 
men's Municipal League, Amy 
Aldis Bradley, 75 



Mechanics Institute, Novel Courses at, 
Helen HoUister, 167 

Milam, Ava B., A Study of Cakes, 262 

Miller, Bertha M, and Viola M. 
Bell, The Domestic Science De- 
partment as a Social Center, 162 

Mulligan, Catherine A., Work ii> 
Food Preparation in the University 
of Tennessee, 233 

National Education Association, 384 
Negro Industrial Training in the Schools 
of Augusta, Elizabeth G. Holt, 315 
News from the Field ; Adelaide Hoodless 
Memorial, 508; American Associa- 
tion for the Study and Prevention 
of Infant Mortality, 401 ; Bureau of 
Household Research, 402; Canton 
(China) Christian College, 508; Cir- 
cular of Washington Housekeepers 
Alliance, 506; Concord State Nor- 
mal School, 400; Connecticut Home 
Economics Association, 507; Con- 
servation Exposition, 504; Ellen 
H. Richards Research Prize, 191; 
Ellen H. Richards School, Boston, 
507; Eighth International Con- 
gress of Applied Chemistry, 399; 
Home Economics Association of 
Greater New York, 189; Home 
Economics at the General Fed- 
eration of Women's Clubs, 400; 
Home-Makers Exhibit and Con- 
ference, 508; International Con- 
gress of Farm Women, 398; Inter- 
national Congress of Hygiene and 
Demography, 400; Iowa State Col- 
lege, 308; Mar>-land Agricultural 
College, 189, 508; Mechanics Insti- 
tute Summer School, 402; Michigan 
Agricultural College, 190, Home 
Economics Association, 188, 401; 
Miss Bouton's Work in Nebraska, 
504; New England Home Econom- 
ics Association, 188; Oklahoma 
Agricultural and Mechanical Col- 
lege, 308; Omicron Nu, 509; School 
of Domestic Science of the Chau- 
tauqua Summer Schools, 401; 



520 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



School of Mother-craft, 190; Scran- 
ton, Pa, Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, 189, 401; Seattle School of 
Household Economics, 191; Second 
International Congress on the 
Teaching of Home Economics, 308, 
Sociological Exhibit at the Panama- 
Pacific Exposition, 503; State Col- 
lege of Washington, 191; Textile 
Courses at Teachers College, 509; 
University of California, 509; Uni- 
versity of Missouri, 190; University 
of Montana, 190; Utah Home 
Economics Association, 189. 
Nutritive Value of Sea-Weeds, The, 
Mary D. S. Rose, 140 

Pitcher, Chas. S., A Waste- Account- 
ing System for Public Institutions, 
460; 

Practice Fields: In Household and 
Institutional Management, Emma 
H. Gunther, 362; For Students in 
Dietary Administration, Florence 
R. Corbett, 413 

Pratt, Edward E., Marketing Facili- 
ties and the Cost of Living, 329 

Pratt, Helen Woodpord, The Laun- 
dry Problem in New York City, 337 

Principles of Management Applied to 
Scientific Management, Royal R. 
Keeley, 74 

Purchasing and Handling of Supplies 
for PubUc Institutions, Henry C. 
Wright, 26 

Relation of Household Administration 

to Public Utilities, Martha Bensley 

Bruere, 433 
Respiration Calorimeter and the Work 

Undertaken With It, The, C. F. 

Langworthy, 59 
Rose, Mary D. S., Bibliography of 

Home Economics Literature, 84, 

174, 297, 369, 499; The Nutritive 

Value of Sea- Weeds, 140 

Sanborn, Gertrude, The Lunchroom 

in Business, 9 
School Lunches: Elementary under 



School Department Direction, 
Mary E. L. Small, 490; General 
Development and Present Status 
of Movement, Louise S. Bryant, 
472; School Lunches and Medical 
Inspection, Ira S. Wile, 345; High 
School Lunches in Philadelphia, 
Emma Smedley, 250; Report of 
New York Committee on, Mabel 
H. L. Kittredge, 482; Rural School 
warm lunch, Mary L. Bill, 477 

Scientific Management in the House- 
hold, Frank B. Gilbreth, 438 

Shackleford, Mary W., Domestic Art 
Esthetically Considered, 262 

Shepperd, Juniata L., Possibilities of 
a Home-Makers Course, 147 

Small, Mary E. L., Elementary School 
Lunches under School Depart- 
ment Direction, 490 

Smedley, Emma, High School Lunches 
in Philadelphia, 250 

Snow, Mary S., The $500, $1000, and 
$2000 Income, 353 

SwENSON, Sadie, Subject Matter in 
Domestic Art, 293 

Teaching the Nutritive Value and Cost 
of Food, Helen M. Day, 164 

Tenement House Supervision, Emily 
W. Dinwiddle, 51 

Van Arsdale, May B., Work in Food 
Preparation in Teachers College, 
230 

Van Hoesen, Gertrude, Household 
Art from the Standpoint of Eco- 
nomics, 278 

Van Zile, Mary P., Elementary Cook- 
cry, 235; Home Economics Ex- 
tension Work in Kansas, 155 

Wile, Ira S., School Lunches and Medi- 
cal Inspection, 345 

WiLMOT, Ruth, Domestic Art Methods 
of Technical Instruction, 284 

Wright, Henry C, Purchasing and 
Handling of Supphes for Institu-, 
tions, 26 



TX Journal of home economici 
J7 

Food 
Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



