COOKING COURSE 

No. 1 
By AMELIA AVERY COOKE 



1912 




The Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute 

COOKING COURSE 

No. 1 
By AMELIA AVERY COOKE 



The Press of 

The Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute 

Hampton, Virginia 

1912 



w 



^^^^ 



lU 



COOKING COURSE No. 1 

RULES FOR WORK 

1 Wash the hands thoroughly with soap and water and 
be sure that the nails are clean. Be sure that the hair is neatly 
combed. 

2 Put on caps, aprons, and sleevelets. 

3 Take your appointed seat in the kitchen. 

4 When the signal is given to begin work,, place your 
chair back against the wall, out of the way, and place all books, 
papers, and pencil in a neat pile on the top of the apron cup- 
board . 

5 Get all the utensils ready that will be needed, not for- 
getting a plate on which to put soiled utensils. 

6 Attend to fire and see that it will be ready for use 
when needed. 

7 Get all the materials needed. Measure them and have 
them ready for use before beginning to cook. • 

8 Cover the flour dish, sugar dish, baking powder can, 
shortening pail, etc., as soon as you have taken from them 
what you need. 

9 To taste of what you are cooking, take up a little food 
on the mixing spoon, put it into a teaspoon and taste from the 
teaspoon. 

10 Do not make work for yourself by using more uten- 
sils than are necessary . When dry ingredients, liquids, and 
fats are called for in the same recipe, measure them in the 
order given, thereby using but one cup or spoon. 

11 Clear up as you work, putting soiled utensils of a kind 
together and putting them to soak until you are ready to wash 
them. 

12 When you have finished cooking, put away all materi- 
als and utensils in their proper places. 

13 Leave everything you have used clean and the room 
in perfect order. 



MEASURING 

Exact measuring is necessary to get the best results in 
cooking. 

A standard measuring cup, teaspoon, tablespoon of regu- 
lation size, and a case knife are necessary for correct measur- 
ing. A standard measuring cup is one that will hold just one- 
half a point of water, or granulated sugar, or butter packed in 
solidly, and it is divided either into quarters or thirds or both. 

Fine dry materials, such as flour, powdered and con- 
fectioner's sugar, and soda, should be sifted before measur- 
ing. All materials except liquids should be measured level. 

To measure a cupful of dry material, dip the material in- 
to the cup lightly with a tablespoon until the cup is slightly 
rounded, then level with the dull edge of a case knife. 

To measure a spoonful of dry material, dip the spoon into 
the material, fill, lift, and level with the dull edge of a case 
knife. 

To measure half a spoonful, divide the level spoonful 
lengthwise and remove one portion. To measure a quarter, 
divide a half spoonful crosswise a little nearer the handle than 
the tip and remove one portion. To measure an eighth, di- 
vide the quarter diagonally. A speck is as much as will lie on 
the tip of a pointed knife. 

A cupful of liquid is all the cup will hold; a spoonful is all 
the spoon will hold. 

To measure cottolene, butter, or any solid fat, pack it 
solidly into the cup and level with the dull edge of a case 
knife. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

tbsp. equals tablespoon 
tsp. " teaspoon 
c. " cup 

g. " gill 

pt. " pint 

qt. " quart 

3 tsp. equals i tbsp. 

4 tbsp. " \ c. 
2 g. "I c. 



oz. 


equal; 


s ounce 


lb. 


(( 


pound 


spk. 


n 


speck 


m. 


<( 


minute 


h, or 


hr. " 


hour 


2 c. ( 


iquals I 


pt. 


2 pt. 


" I 


qt. 


4qt. 


" I 


gal. 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 

Proteids or nitrogenous food ( Fish, lean meat, white of 

I Build and repair tissue -l eggs, cheese, peas, beans, 

II Give strength ( milk. 

Carbohydrates 

( o , j cereals f sugar cane 

Yield heat and energy } ^^^^^'^ \ vegetables | " beet 

( Sugar ....-{ maple sap 
fruit 



^ , „., r butter 1 milk 

3 Fats and Oils , J cream 

^"'"^^M fat of meat 

I Yield heat and energy 1^ oil of fish 

TT -c i: 4.. 4.- ffat of cereals 

II Form fatty tissue ^j.^^ ^-^ 

Vegetable i ^^ -^ ^^^^ 

l^oilin cotton seed 

4 Mineral matter 

I Helps to harden bone and teeth 

II Assists in digestion 

5 Water 

I Helps to build tissue 

II Purifies blood 

III Assists in digestion 

IV Equalizes temperature of body 

WATER 

Water is found in nature in three forms: as a liquid 
(water), as a solid (ice), and as a gas (steam). Pure water is 
composed of hydrogen and oxygen 

Water is an ingredient of all foods. Our bodies require 
it to soften the food, assist in carrying off waste material, and 
to equalize the temperature of the body 

Water boils at the temperature of 212 degrees Fahren- 
heit, at the sea level, and freezes at 32 degrees F. 

Water standing in lead pipes over night or longer may 
take up some of the lead and become poisonous. It should be 
allowed to run for at least five minutes in the morning to draw 



^ 6 

off all that has been standing in the pipes. Never use water 
from the hot-water faucet for drinking and cooking. Hot 
water can take up more lead than cold water. 

BEVERAGES 

A beverage is any drink. Examples; tea, coffee, lemonade. 

Tea is a beverage prepared by steeping the leaves of the 
tea plant in water. 

There are many kinds of tea most of which are mixtures 
of black and green tea. 

Tea grows in tropical countries; most of our tea comes 
from China, Japan, North-East India, and Ceylon. 

TEA 

I tbsp. tea. I c. freshly boiled water. 

Scald teapot and put in onetsp. of tea for each c. of tea 
required. 

Add I c. boiling water for each tsp. of tea. Cover, allow to 
stand on back of stove or in a warm place, and steep five 
minutes. Strain into cups and serve immediately. 

Note: An enameled ware, silver, or earthen ware tea-pot 
is best for making tea as it does not give the tea a strong taste. 

Never boil tea or steep the leaves a second time. This 
draws tannic acid from the tea. A cup of tea made from boiled 
tea leaves often produces head-ache and causes indigestion. 

COFFEE 

Coffee is the roasted seed or berry of a tree which grows^ 
in Africa, Mexico, the Indies, and Mocha. 

RECIPE (for 7 cups) COFFEE 

I c. coffee 6 c. boiling water 

I small egg and shell i c. cold water 

1 Scald coffee pot 

2 Wash Qgg, break and beat slightly. 

3 Mix egg, shell, \ c. cold water, and coffee and put into 
coffee pot. 



4 Add boiling water and boil five minutes. 

5 Add remaining cold water and allow to stand 20 min- 
utes on back of stove (where it will not boil). Serve in hot 
cups with cream and sugar. 

VEGETABLES 

I Definition 

A vegetable is any portion of a plant which is used for 
food. 

II Perparations for Cooking 

Asparagus: wash and break off the tough end, tie in 
bundles, or break into inch bits. 

Beets : wash carefully, for if the skin be broken the 
sugary juices will escape. 

Cabbage and cauliflower : trim and soak top down in 
slightly salted water to draw out any insects. 

Carrots : scrub and scrape off the thin outer surface. 

Celery: wash and scrape off any rusty portions. 

Green corn: husk with clean hands, brush off silk, but do 
not wash corn. 

Onions: peel and soak. 

Parsnips: scrub till white, trim off fine roots. 

Peas and beans: shell and wash quickly. 

Potatoes: scrub and pare when necessary. 

Soft shell squashes: wash, pare, and cut as desired. 

Hard " " : wash, split, and cook in the shell. 

Spinach : (and other greens) : pick over and wash in 
sev^eral waters. 

Turnips: scrub, cut in slices and pare. 

String beans: strip off the ends and strings on each 
side, cut or break into small pieces and wash. 

Note: All green vegetables should be crisp and firm 
when put to cook. If vegetables have lost their firmness and 
crispness they should be soaked in very cold water until they 
become plump and crisp. 



Ill General rules for cooking. 

Vegetables may be baked, roasted, fried, steamed, or boil- 
ed. Boiling is most common and one of the best ways of 
cooking them. 



Asparagus 
Celery 



I Use as little water as p ossibleand 
P - [let it boil away, leaving just enough 

Ijreen corn y ^^ moisten. Do not salt until nearly 

(jreen peas | jQ_g 

Shelled beans J 

Cabbage ^ Cook uncovered in a large kettle of 

Cauliflower v rapidly boiling salted water and a 

) saltspoon of soda. 
Onions Scald and change the water twice. 

Cook all other vegetables in enough freshly boiling and 
slightly salted water to cover, cooking quickly until done. 
The length of time required will depend upon the age and 
freshness of the vegetables. 

IV Care of vegetables 

Summer vegetables should be cooked as soon after gather- 
ing as possible. In case they must be kept, spread on bottom 
of cool, well-ventilated cellar, or place in ice-box. 

Winter vegetables should be kept in a cold dark place. 
Put beets, carrets, turnips, and potatoes in barrels or bins, 
excluding as much air as possible. Squash should be spread and 
needs careful attention. Cook at once if dark spots appear. 

V Recipes 

BOILED POTATOES 

1 Select potatoes uniform in size. 

2 Scrub and pare them lengthwise 

•3 Remove the "eyes" and dark spots if there are any. 

4 Drop into cold water. 

5 Place in a kettle with enough boiling water to cover. 

6 After boiling 20 minutes, add i tbsp. salt to every 12 

potatoes. 

7 When the potatoes can be pierced easily, drain off 
water. 

8 Shake the kettle gently over a low flame until the po- 
tatoes have a dry and mealy appearance. 



RICED POTATOES 

1 Press boiled potatoes through a ricer or coarse strainer 

2 Serve piled lightly in serving dish. 

MASHED POTATOES 

1 Mash potatoes in the kettle in which they were boiled, 
using a fork, wire potato masher, or ricer. 

2 When free from lumps add to each pint of mashed po- 
tato. 

I tbsp. melted butter 
3 tbsp. scalded milk 
\ tsp. salt 
8 tsp. pepper 

3 Beat all together until light and creamy. 

4 Pile lightly in a dish without smoothing the top. 

CREAMED CARROTS 

Cut carrots into straws. 

Cook in boiling salted water until they may be easily cut 
with the edge of the fork. 

Drain off the water. Cover them with white sauce and 
serve hot. 

CREAMED TURNIPS 

Cut turnip in half inch, cubes. 
Cook in boiling, salted water until tender. 
Drain off the water. Cover with white sauce, and serve 
hot. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled or baked potatoes into half inch cubes. 
Place them in a sauce-pan of white sauce and leave on the 
stove till potatoes are hot. 

WHITE SAUCE (FOR CREAMED VEGETABLES) 

1 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. flour I c. milk 

spk pepper 



lO 



1 Scald the milk (while milk is scalding prepare other 
ingredients) 

2 Cream butter, add flour, salt, and pepper, and cream 
together to a smooth paste. 

3 Add scalded milk a little at a time, stirring constantly. 

4 Place in a double boiler and cook until of the consis- 
tency of thin cream and free from a raw, starchy taste. 

5 Season to taste and serve very hot poured over hot 
vegetables or toast. 

Tomato Sauce (to serve with macaroni or rice) 

1 tbsp. butter \ tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. flour I c. tomato juice 

spk pepper. 

1 Cream butter, add flour, salt and pepper, and cream 
together to a smooth paste. 

2 Add tomato juice and boil 3 m. 

3 Season to taste and serve hot. 

SOUPS 

General rules for thickened soups. 

1 Cook vegetables until soft. 

2 Press through a seive. 

3 Heat milk, add vegetable-pulp, and heat together. 

4 Cream butter and flour together. 

5 Add to the vegetable pulp and milk mixture and cook 
until free from starchy taste. 

6 Season to taste and serve hot in a hot soup plate. 
Note : The butter and flour creamed together are of- 
ten spoken of as binding material. 

POTATO SOUP 

4 potatoes 3 tbsp. flour 

\ onion i qt. milk 

3 tbsp. butter 2 tsp. salt 

tsp. pepper. 
Heat milk and onion together until milk is scalded. Re- 
move onion and prepare soup by general rules. 



I r 



BEAN SOUP 

(1 c. dried beans) i onion 

or , 

(2 c. fresh beans) i^ tbsp. butter 



I qt. stock li " flo^"- , 

i tsp. pepper \ tsp. celery salt 

i tsp. salt. 

Soak beans over night or several hours. 

Cook in boiling water till soft. 

Prepare soup by general rules. 

EMERGENCY SOUP 

I qt tomato (canned) 6 tbsp. flour 

I pt. water i tsp. celery salt. 

I tbsp. sugar 2 " salt 

4 " butter 3 cloves 

1 bay leaf spk. pepper 

1 Cook tomato, water, sugar, celery salt, salt, pepper,bay 
leaf and cloves together 20 minutes, 

2 Strain ; add binding material and boil 5 minutes. 

T. Serve hot. j . 1 v^ 

Note : Omit water if fresh tomatoes are used; twelve to 

fourteen tomatoes will be needed. 

CEREALS 

Cereals or grains are cultivated grasses, the seeds of which 

are used for food. . . 

Cereals should be kept in tightly covered jars or tms; 

glass jars are preferable. 

GENERAL RULES FOR CEREALS 

Look over cereal and remove husks or any other foreign 
matter There are two methods for cooking cereals. A dou- 
Se boiler is the best utensil for both methods. The lower ket- 
tle should be kept 1 full of boiling water. 

ist method-Put water, cereal, and salt into the upper 
kettle of the double boiler. Place over the lower kettle, cover, 
and steam without stirring several hours or until ready to serve, 



12 



2nd method — Put water and salt into upper kettle of dou- 
ble boiler, place over direct heat and when it begins to boil 
rapidly stir in the cereal gradually. Allow to boil ten 
minutes, stirring to prevent burning. Place it over the lower 
kettle and steam until ready to serve. 

Use a fork for stirring coarse cereals and a spoon for fine 
cereals. 







TABLE 




Cereal 


Amount 


Salt 


Water 


Time of cooking in 
a double boiler 


Oatmeal 


I c. 


I tsp. 


2 c. 


30 m. 


Cream of 










Wheat 


I c. 


I tsp. 


4C. 


30 m. 


Rice 


I c. 


I tbsp. 


2qts. 


30 m. 


Corn meal 


I c. 


I tsp. 


4C. 


2—3 hrs. 


Hominy 










(coarse) 


I c. 


2 tsp. 


2 qts. 


6—8 hrs. 


Hominy 










(fine) 


I c. 


I tsp. 


4C. 


I hr. 


Fried 


mushes: 


Mush left 


over from 


breakfast may be 



packed in greased or wet pound baking powder cans. The 
next morning remove from can, slice thinly, dip in flour and 
saute. 

Serve with a syrup made of white, brown, or maple sugar. 

Syrups for mushes; 

Brown or white sugar Water Vanilla 

I c. ^ c. 5 drops 

Maple sugar i c. ^ c. 

Mix sugar and water, stir until dissolved, and let boil until 
a thick syrup is formed. 

DEFINITIONS 

Boiling — Cooking food in boiling water. 
Steaming — " " over hot water. 

Sauteing — " " in a small quantity of fat 

Frying — " ** sufficient fat to float the food. 



13 



BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

A mixture of flour and liquid, which is thin enough to be 
beaten, is called a batter. 

A mixture of flour and liquid stiff enough to be moulded 
on a board is called a dough. 

Batters and doughs are made to rise by the addition of 
some material which will form bubbles in the mixture. When 
the batter or dough is baked, the heat of the oven causes these 
bubbles to expand or grow larger, thus causing the mixture to 
rise. 

Popovcrs and many other thin batters are made to rise by 
the expansion of ( b ) air and steam formed from the li- 
quid in the batter. White of eggs beaten until stiff and added 
to the batter furnishes bubbles of air, as in sponge cake. 
Yeast forms bubbles of gas in bread. 

Other batters and doughs are caused to rise by the expan- 
sion of gas, formed by the action of baking powder or some 
acid mixed with soda. 

POPOVERS 

I c. flour I egg 

I tsp. salt I c. milk 

1 Sift flour and salt. 

2 Add unbeaten egg and \ c. milk. Mix well. 

3 Add remainder of milk and beat with egg beater until 
smooth. 

4 Bake in hot oven in hot buttered gem pans 40 ms. 

BAKING POWDER 

Pure baking powder is composed of 6 parts of cream of 
tartar, 3 parts bi-carbonate of soda, and i part starch. 

Cream of tartar is the acid of grapes. It is obtained from 
the casks in which grape wine has fermented. In the crude 
state it is called argol. 

Bi-carbonate of soda, cooking soda, is made from common 
salt or from a mineral called kryolith, which is found in Green- 
land. 



14 

When an acid substance and an alkaline substance are 
united moistened, and heated, they set free a gas called car- 
bon-dioxide. This gas comes from the alkali, but cannot es- 
cape until mixed with an acid liquid or hot water. Hot water 
is not used in batters because it does not destory the taste of 
the soda. 

Alkali (soda) is commonly mixed with the following acids 
to form this gas: sour milk, lemon juice, molases, cream of 
tartar. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

I pt. flour i tsp. salt 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. shortening 

milk or water (about | c.) 

1 Mix and sift dry ingredients. 

2 Cut in shortening until the mixture resembles fine 
meal 

3 Add liquid gradually to make a dough as soft as can be 
handled. Mix with a knife. 

4 Toss on a floured board and roll out until \ inch thick. 

5 Cut with a floured biscuit cutter. 

6 Place close together on a greased pan. 

7 Bake in a hot oven 10 to 15 rainnutes. 

CORN MEAL GEMS 

■^c. corn meal i tbsp. melted butter 

I c. flour I tsp. salt 

3 tsp. bak. powder f c. milk 
I tbsp. sugar i egg 

1 Mix and sift dry materials 

2 Add egg well beaten; milk and lastly beat in the melted 
butter. 

3 Bake in hot gem pans 20-30 minutes. 

BREAD 

Bread is the most important article of food, and history 
tells of its use before the Christian era. 



15 

Bread is made from flour of wheat, or some other grain, 
mixed with liquid, salt, and some rising agent. Flour made 
from wheat is best adapted for bread making because of the 
large percentage of gluten in it. 

To obtain gluten from wheat; Tie | c. bread flour in a 
piece of cheese cloth. Wash out all of the starch by squezing 
it in a bowl of cold water 10—15 minutes. The gluten will 
be left in the cloth. 

Every wheat kernel is made up of eight layers or coats 
The four principal ones are the outer, called husk, removed 
before the grain is ground and used as food for cattle. The 
second, called bran, is largely cellulose with a little fat and 
mineral matter. The next contains the gluten, and the inner- 
most portion contains most of the starch. There are many 
kinds of flour made from wheat. Graham flour is made by 
grinding the wheat after the husk has been removed. It con- 
tains a large amount of bran. Whole wheat flour (or entire 
wheat flour) is graham flour with some of the bran removed. 
White flour is made by grinding the wheat very fine and then 
removing all the coarse portions by sifting through many 
sizes of seives. 

There are two kinds of white flour; viz.; bread flour and 
pastry flour. Bread flour is made from summer wheat and 
contains a large proportion of gluten. 

Pastry flour is made from winter wheat and contains more 
starch and less gluten than bread flour. 

YEAST 

Yeast is a very tiny (microscopic) plant found growing on 
the skins of fruits and on the pods of the hop vine. When 
yeast is mixed with a sweet liquid or a moist mixture contain- 
ing starch, it grows and causes fermentation. Fermentation is 
the process by which sugar is changed to carbon dioxide gas 
and alcohol. Air, warmth, and moisture furnish favorable 
conditions for its action. 

Our yeast cakes are made from the yeast collected in the 
vats where beer is made. The foam, containing the 



l6 

yeast, is skimmed off, washed, mixed with some starchy ma- 
terial, and then pressed into cakes which are wrapped in tin- 
foil to keep them clean and moist. Dry yeast is made by mix- 
ing these yeast plants with cornmeal and then drying them 
slowly. 

GENERAL RULES FOR BREAD MAKING 

1 Scald the milk or boil the water to kill any germs 
that may interfere with action of yeast. 

2 Put shortening, salt, and sugar into mixing bowl and 
pour hot liquids over them. 

3 Cool till lukewarm (hot liquids kill yeast) 

4 Soften yeast cake in lukewarm water and add to other 
liquids. 

5 Add flour gradually (stir with a knife) 

6 When dough is stiff enough to handle, turn onto flour- 
ed board and knead until soft and elastic (this is to mix 
thoroughly). 

7 Place in buttered bowl, butter top of dough to prevent 
a dry crust from forming, cover and allow to rise in a warm 
place until double its bulk. 

8 Knead until all gas bubbles are small and evenly dis- 
tributed thoughout the dough. 

9 Shape into loaves or biscuit and place in greased 
pans. 

10 Allow to rise in pans until double its bulk. 

11 Bake loaves 45-60 m. in hot oven. 
Bake biscuit 25-35 ^- i"^ very hot oven. 

12 When bread is baked it will be browned on all sides 
and will not stick to the pans. 

DIVISION OF TIME FOR BAKING 

First quarter, dough rises. 

Second quarter dough finishes rising and begins to brown. 
Third quarter, dough continues to brown. 
Fourth quarter, dough finishes browning and draws away 
from the pan. 



17 



CARE OF BREAD AFTER IT iS BAKED 

1 Remove from the pans and place on a broiler or rack 
to cool, keep covered with a clean thin cloth but do not wrap 
the bread in the cloth. 

2 When bread is cold keep in a stone jar or tin box with 
close fitting cover. 

3 Scald bread box and wipe dry before putting fieshly 
baked bread into it. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

2 cups scalded milk i >4 tsp. salt 

^ c of sugar or ^ c. molasses i cake of yeast (softened 

in j{ c. water ) 
3^ c. entire wheat flour, 
white flour to knead. 
Prepare and bake b}' general rules 

BREAD 

1 cup water }( yeast cake (softened in }{ c. water) 

1 c. milk 2 tbsp. shortening 

2 tbsp. sugar 2 tsp. salt 

flour ( about s}4 cups) 
Mix and bake according to general rules. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

1 cup rolled oats i tsp. salt 

2 c. boiling water i}4 tbsp. butter 

^2 c. molasses ^ yeast cake ( softened in }{ c. water) 

flour to knead 
Pour boiling water onto rolled oats and allow to cool. 
Add other materials and mix according to genera] rules. 

EGGS 

Eggs are proteid or nitrogenous food. They contain al- 
bumen in an easily digestible form. 

There are three parts to an egg besides the membranes: 
first, the shell ; second, the white ; third, the yolk. The white 



i8 



is enclosed in a tliick membrane. The yolk is enclosed in a 
thin membrane. The shell is chiefly made up of mineral 
matter and is porous. The white is almost pure albumen and 
water. 

Albumen is a proteid substance ; that is, a strength-giving, 
muscle-building food. It is found in the white of eggs, in 
fish, and in meat. 

GENERAL RULES FOR EGOS 

1 Wash as soon as brought from the store. 

2 Keep in a cool place. 

3 The unbroken yolk of an egg may be kept from hard- 
ening by putting into cold water. 

4 The water in which eggs are cooked should not boil 
but should be kept at a temperature of i6o°-i8o° F. while 
cooking. The water should cover the eggs. 

5 Eggs may be cooked soft in two ways ; 

ist method — Put into boiling water, cover them, remove 
to back of stove where they will not boil, and let stand from 
5 to 10 m. 

2nd method — Put into cold water over direct heat and 
when the water bubbles they are done. 

6 To cook the egg hard, cook by first method 40-45 m. 

TESTS FOR FRESH EGGS 

1 A fresh egg will not rattle when shaken near the ear. 

2 A fresh egg will sink to the bottom of a pan of cold 
water. 

DROPPED EGGS ON TOAST 

Have ready a shallow pan of nearly boiling water. 
Drop in muffin rings to shape the eggs. Carefully break the 
eggs into a cup and slip them into the rings. 

The water should cover the eggs. 

When the white is firm and a thin film covers the yolk 
lift out with a skimmer or perforated spoon and place on 
toast. Garnish with small pieces of parsley and serve very 
hot. 



19 



OMELETS 

3 eggs 3 tbsp. water 

% tsp. salt spk. pepper 

I tbsp. butter 

1 Beat white of egg till stiff. 

2 Beat yolk till thick and lemon colored. 

3 Add salt, pepper, and water. 

4 Carefully fold in the beaten whites. 

5 Melt butter in a frying-pan, pour in the Qgg mixture 
and cook until brown. 

6 Put into the oven and dry the top. 

7 Fold on a hot platter, garnish with parsley. 

8 Serve at once. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

I egg }i tsp. salt 

I tbsp. milk spk. pepper 

4 tbsp. butter 

1 Beat egg slightly ; add salt, pepper and milk. 

2 Melt butter in sauteing pan. 

3 Pour in the mixture and cook slowly, continually scrap- 
ing from bottom of pan. 

4 When creamy turn onto a hot dish and serve at once. 

GENERAL RULES FOR TABLE SETTING 

1 The room must be in order, clean, free from dust, 
and well aired. Temperature about 68° F. 

2 Linen should be immaculate and china and glass 
glistening 

3 Place silence cloth ( this should be of seme soft, heavy 
material, felting, canton flannel, or a clean cotton blanket). 

Uses : deadens sound, protects top of table, improves 
appearance of cloth. 

4 Place tablecloth with centerfold exactly in the center 
of the table and the corners equally distant from the floor. 



20 



All folds in the cloth should be straight with the edge of 
the table. 

5 If tray cloth and carving cloth are used, place tray- 
cloth in front of hostess ; carving cloth in front of host ; place 
both parallel with edge of table. 

6 On a doily in the center of the table place a plant, cut 
flowers or a dish of fruit. 

7 Arrange the "covers." "A cover" includes the 
plate, napkins, glasses, and cutlery, which arc set in place for 
each individual before the meal is served. 

8 At each cover arrange the following : 

Knives at right of plate, sharp edge toward plate forks at 
left of plate, tines up ; spoons at right of knife, bowls up. 
Napkins, plates, knives, forks, and spoons are placed half an 
inch from the edge of the table. The silver is placed in the 
order of use, the first to be used farthest from the plate. 

Napkin at left of fork with open corner toward handle of 
fork. 

Tumbler, open end up, a little to the right and half an 
inch from end of knife. 

Butter plate, a little to the left and half an inch from end 
of fork. 

Salt and pepper cellars, if individual, between tumbler 
and butter plate, if not individual, place between each two 
covers or at opposite corners of the table. 

Finger bowl and fruit napkin above fruit plate or on 
fruit plate with doily between and napkin above the plate. 

Place china so decorations face the person sitting at the 
table. 

POSITION OF HOST AND HOSTESS 

The end of the table farthest from the living room door 
is the head of the table, the opposite end is the foot of the 
table. The host sits at the head of the table and the hostess 
at the foot. 

If coffee is to be served at the table, set out the required 
number of cups and saucers. Arrange them at the left of 



21 



the hostess's cover. Place coffee spoons on the saucers at 
right of cup, with handle of spoon and handle of cup parallel. 

The cream pitcher and sugar bowl should be placed near 
and the coffee stand at the right of the cover. 

Place serving spoons at the right of the cover, beyond 
the server's own silver. If a serving spoon is required, place 
it at the right of the cover ne.xt to the dull edge of the serv- 
ing knife. 

Two minutes before the meal is announced place the 
butter, to one side, on the butter plates and fill the glasses 
three-quarters full of cold water. 

Place a plate of cold bread either on the table or side 
table. The water pitcher should be filled and placed on a 
plate on a doily and should be left on the side table. Set an 
extra supply of butter on the side table. 

The plate marks the center of each cover. Allow from 
35 to 30 inches for each cover at the table. 

Serve hot food on warm dishes and cold food on cold 
dishes. 

When the meal is ready the waitress should quietly 
announce it to the hostess. 

To announce breakfast the waitress should either sound 
the gong or say, " Breakfast is served. " To announce 
luncheon say, " Luncheon is served. " To announce dinner 
say, "Dinner is served." 

When host or hostess is ready to sei ve a course the wait- 
ress should 

1 Place dish containing food in front of server's cover. 

2 Bring in each hand, from the side table, dish in which 
food is to be served and set down, the one in the right hand 
in front of the server close to the dish containing the food. 

3 When the dish is filled, take it up with the right hand 
and set down the second plate with the left hand. 

4 Put the filled dish on serving tray and place from the 
right, in front of the person for whom it is intended ; then 
take another dish from the side table and return to the server. 

5 Take up the prepared dish and set down the other. 
Continue until all have been served. 



22 



6 Follow this method for any course to be served at the 
table. 

7 The waitress should stand to the left of the server, 
and when there is nothing to be passed she should stand to 
the left and a little to the back of the host. 

8 If a tray is used on which to pass food, it should be 
covered with a doily. A folded napkin may be placed 
between the hand and the dish, if a tray is not used. 

9 A waitress must be very careful not to put her fingers 
over the edge into the dish she is carrying. 

10 Place food from the right, pass food to the left, and 
take away dishes from the right. When passing a tray to 
the left for a guest to help himself, be sure to hold the tray 
low enough to be reached with ease. Place the spoon in such 
a position that a spoonful may be easily taken out. 

11 The hostess may be served first ; the host is usually 
served last. 

12 Waitress should keep tumblers three-fourths full of 
cold water. Remove them from the table before refilling. 
Always place the fingers at the base of the tumbler when lift- 
ing it. 

13 When clearing the table between courses: first 
remove all food; second, remove sot/ed china, glass, and silver. 
Remove everything relating to one course before serving 
another. Be sure to remove, salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, etc. 
before serving a desert course. 

Plates should be removed, one at a time, from the right. 
If two -are removed at once, take one in each hand. Never 

PILE THE DISHES. 

Use a folded napkin and plate to free the table from 
crumbs. To crumb table stand at right of person seated and 
crumb with right hand. If crumbs remain on table at left of 
person seated, remove them with ihe left hand from the left 
side. 

14 At a formal meal all food is served from "the side; " 
i. e., butler's pantry or kitchen. When served from the pantry 



waitress may bring two plates into dining-room at one time 
using a large tray. Set this tray on the side table and serve 
from it using small serving trays when passing the food. 

DINING-ROOM ETIQUETTE 

1 Upon entering the dining-room all should stand 
behinJ their chairs and remain standing until hostess sits. 

2 Sit down from the left : rise from the right. 

3 Sit well forward in the chair. Sit straight and do not 
lean back. 

4 Do not unfold napkin or begin to eat until hostess 
does so. 

5 Do not lean arms or elbows on the table. Do not 
twist feet around the legs of the chair. 

6 When not using the knife and fork place them side by 
side, across the plate, the fork next the sharp edge of the 
knife. 

7 Do not leave spoon in the cup ; place it in the saucer 
to the right of the cup parallel to the handle of the cup. 

8 Host and hostess should see that guests are kept sup- 
plied with food. When offering a second portion never ask 
a guest if he will " have more " or another piece. " It is more 
polite to say: " Will you have some tea } " or " May I serve 
you to potato i " or " Let me help you to this piece of meat. " 

9 Host and hostess should be careful not to eat so rap- 
idly that they finish before their guests. 

10 Guests should fold their napkins loosely and leave 
them at the left of the cover. Do not place them upon the 
table until the hostess has placed hers. 

She will not do this until everyone has finished eating. 
If a guest is to be present at more than one meal, he should 
fold his napkin in the original crease and place it at the left 
of his cover. 

11 Guests must not talk to the waitress. 

12 When hostess starts to rise, the host and guests may 
do so. 

13 Leave the chairs at the table. Do not set them 
back against the wall. 

14 The hostess with the guest at her right should 
leave the dining-room first. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




