Class —c 




Book 



-tLzS 



GopyiightN^, 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 




W. S. HAMKS. M. D. 



THE REFLECTOR 




A Brief Resume of Facts condens- 
ed for ready reference embracing 

Cookery, Household Econo- 
my, Poultry, Stock and Farm; 
together with Diseases of Man 
Beast and Fowl and History 
Cause, Symptoms and Ration- 
al Treatment :: :: :: :: :: 



By 

W. S. HAMES, M. D. 






Copyrighted, 1912 

BY 

W. S. HAMES 



€CI.A312234 



Preface 



After several years in the practice of medicine, and mix- 
ing and mingling with many classes of people, it dawned upon 
the writer the necessity of a short, concise work, adapted to 
every day use among those who were neither versed nor had 
the time or inclination to delve into volumes that seemingly 
failed to unfold the subject in an attractive and interesting 
manner. To meet this requirement prompted me to hazard the 
task of compiling and devising a book suitable to meet this de- 
mand. The subjects of home economy, cookery, farm, poultry 
and stock, as well as a treatise on the various forms of dis- 
eases of man and beast, have been discussed in the most simple 
language. All unnecessary verbiage has been omitted. 

I have perused and am under obligations to such authors 
as Drs. Goss, Ballenger, Hughes, Johnson, Merrell, Scudder and 
others of less prominence. Each subject has been treated in a 
way to convey the idea sought, in the fewest words and simpl- 
est form. To hold the attention of the reader and cause him to 
understand and become so familiar with the subject that the 
thought becomes his own, has been the head-light of attraction 
from the beginning. A brief description of most all the dis- 
eases that attack the human body, with a terse outline of prop- 
er treatment upon a scientific arid philosophical basis, suffic- 
ient to make plain the best management in such eases, appears 
feasible. 

Truth is the property of no one. and briefly stated, the 
object of the present volume is to present a condensed state- 
ment of such essential facts pertaining to each subject herein 
described as will form the groundwork for a more rational 
employment in everyday life. 



PRINTERS PUBLISHING CO., PUBLISHERS 



COR. MAIN AND HARVEY 
OKLAHOMA CITY 



THE REFLECTOR 




^^^^ 



Domestic Department 



CHAPTER I. 



In the early ages the human family lived veiy closely to 
nature, and obtained their substance at first hand. Their food 
was the most natural and used without much change in its 
simple character. Nuts of different kinds and fruits of every 
variety were their sources of life. This manner of living had 
great influence on their longevity. 

But the culinary art, to keep pace with other advances of 
civilization, has had to change to meet the requirements of an 
advancing age. Thus, by a change of diet to conform to other 
methods of domestic life, we have, in a sense, merited the name 
of a nation of dyspeptics. In our artificail state of society, to 
keep up appearances, excessive indulgence has furnished a 
fertile field for the operations of the patent medicine man and 
a lucrative business for the dentist. The quantity of food 
resessary to bodily health depends greatly on the requirements 
of individuals engaged in sedentary employment, or of per- 
sons with weak constitutions or impaired digestion, as also 
whether employed in the open air or within doors, 
much also depending on the temperature. Preference 
should be given to the food which most readilv vields 



8 THE REFLECTOR 

the materials required by nature in the formation of the 
hrmian body. Food, as generally prepared, contains 50 per 
cent of water, which would increase the quantity to 46 ozs., or 
3 lbs. and 14 ozs., with at least an equal weight of water in ad- 
dition daily. The analysis of nutritious elements in 100 parts 
are as follows, viz : — 

Indian meal, 12.30 ; barley, 14 ; wheat, 14.06 ; oats, 19.91 ^ 
raw cucumbers, 2; raw melons, 3; boiled turnips, 41/2; milk, 7; 
cabbage, 7I/2 ; currants, 10 ; whipped eggs, 13 ; beets, 14 ; ap- 
ples, 16 ; peaches, 20 ; boiled codfish, 21 ; broiled venison, 22 ; 
potatoes, 22V2 ; fried veal, 24 ; roast pork, 24 ; roast poultry, 
26 ; raw beef, 26 ; raw grapes, 27 ; raw plums, 29 ; broiled 
mutton, 30 ; oat-meal porridge, 75 ; rye bread, 79 ; boiled beans, 
87 ; boiled rice, 88 ; barley bread, 88 ; wheat bread, 90 ; baked 
corn bread, 91 ; boiled barley, 92 ; butter , 93 ; boiled peas, 93 ; 
raw oils, 94. 

COMPARISON OF FOOD VALUE. 

Oysters, 22 ; milk, 24 ; lobsters, 50 ; cream, 56 ; codfish, 68 ; 
eggs, 72 ; turbot, 84 ; mutton, 87 ; venison, S9 ; veal, 92 ; fowl, 
94; herring, 100; beef, 100; duck, 104; salmon, 108; pork, 116; 
butter, 124 ; cheese, 155. 

Percentage of Heat Development. 

Butter, 79 ; cocoa, 69 ; bacon, 54 ; flour, 46 ; sugar, 42 ; oat- 
meal, 42; biscuit, 42; corn, 38; rice, 38; peas, 36; cheese, 36; 
bread, 27 ; beef, 27 ; eggs, 16 ; potatoes, 12 ; fish, 9 ; parsnips, 8 ; 
milk, 7; carrots, 5; beer, 4. 

Lost By Cooking. 

100 lbs. raw beef, 67 lbs. roast. 
100 lbs. raw beef, 74 lbs. boiled. 
400 lbs. raw mutton, 75 lbs. roast. 
100 lbs raw fowl, 80 lbs. roast. 
100 lbs. raw fowl, 87 lbs. boiled. 
100 lbs. raw fish, 94 lbs. boiled. 

Percent of Sugar. 

Grape, 14.9; cherry, 10.8; mulberry, 9.2; gooseberry, 7.2; 
apple, 7.9; pear, 9.4; currant, 6.1; peach, 1.6; strawberry, 5.7; 
raspberry, 4.0. 



THEREFLECTOR 9 

Degrees of Starch Rated on 100 Per Cent. 
Peas and beans, 43; buckwheat, 52; potatoes (75 per cent 
water), 14; rye flour, 50; oatmeal, 75; wheat flour, 60; barley 
flour, 69 ; rice flour, 84 ; corn meal, 78. 

Weight by Measure. 
Wheat flour, 1 lb. is 1 quart. 
Corn meal, 1 lb. 2 ozs. is 1 quart. 
Butter, soft, 1 lb. is 1 quart. 
Loaf sugar, crushed, 1 lb. is 1 quart. 
Granulated sugar, 1 lb. 1 oz. is 1 quart. 
Best brown sugar, 1 lb., 2 oz. is 1 quart. 
Eggs, 10 eggs are 1 pound. 
Flour, 8 quarts are 1 peck. 
Flour, 4 pecks are 1 bushel. 

Liquids, 

16 large tablespoonfuls are V2 pint. 

8 large tablespoonfuls are 1 gill. 

4 large tablespoonfuls are V2 gill. 

2 gills are % pint. 

2 pints are 1 quart. 

4 quarts are 1 gallon. 
A common sized tumbler holds a % pint. 
A common sized wine glass, yo gill. 
25 drops are equal to 1 teaspoonful. 

Properties of Food. 
100 Parts. ^'^^ater. 

Cumbers 97.0 

Turnips 94.4 

Cabbage 90.0 

Milk, cows 86.0 

Apples 84.0 

Mutton 44.0 

Beef 50.0 

■Chicken 46.0 

Lamb 50. 

Pork 38.5 

Beans 14.8 



uscle. 


Fat. 


1.5 


1.0 


1.1 


4. 


.4 


5. 


.5 


8. 


.5 


10 


18. 


32 


15. 


30 


18. 


32 


11. 


35 


10. 


50 


24. 


57.7 



8.6 


75.4 


15.0 


6S.S 


15. 


27. 


17. 


0. 


10.1 


1.65 



10 THE REFLECTOR 

Buckwheat 14.2 

Barley 14. 

Eggs, yolk 79. ' 

Eggs, white 53. 

Veal 68.5 



Digestive Time-Table. 

Apples, sweet, 1 hour, 30 minutes; apples, sour, 2 hours; 
eggs, fried, 3 hours, 30 minutes; rice, boiled, 1 hour, sago, 
boiled, 1 hour, 45 minutes; soup, beef, 4 hours; soup, vegeta- 
ble, 4 hours ; soup, chicken, 3 hours ; soup, oyster, 3 hours, 30 
minutes ; salmon, 4 hours ; trout, boiled, 1 hour, 30 minutes ; 
tripe, 1 hour; tapioca, 2 hours; turkey, 2 hours; turnips, 3 
hours, 30 minutes ; potatoes, 3 hours, 30 minutes ; pork roast, 5 
hours, 15 minutes; pork, boiled, 3 hours, 15 minutes; raw pork, 
3 hours; roast goose, 2 hours; beef liver, 2 hours; 
lamb, 2 hours, 30 minutes ; milk, boiled, 2 hours ; 
raw milk, 2 hours, 15 minutes; oysters, raw, 3 hours, 15 
minutes ; roast, 3 hours, 15 minutes ; stewed, 3 hours, 30 min- 
utes ; parsnips, 2 hours, 30 minutes ; duck, 4 hours ; custard, 2 
hours, 45 minutes ; codfish, 2 hours ; cheese, 3 hours, 30 min- 
utes; cabbage, raw, 2 hours; boiled, 4 hours, 30 minutes; but- 
ter, 3 hours, 30 minutes ; bread, wheat, 3 hours, 30 minutes ; 
corn, 3 hours, 15 minutes; beets, boiled, 3 hours, 45 minutes; 
beef, rare, 3 hours, dried, 3 hours, 30 minutes, fried, 4 hours. 

One pound of oatmeal will furnish as much nutrition as 
two pounds of bread and more than three pounds of lean veal. 

One pound of butter is equal to nine pounds of potatoes, 
twelve pounds of milk and more than five pounds of lean beef. 

One pound of brown sugar is equal to two pounds of ham, 
or eight pounds of cabbage. 

The day laborer requires twenty-three ounces of dry, solid 
food, daily, one-fifth nitrogenous. 

A fish diet is well adapted to sustain intellectual or brain 
labor. "What is necessary to a healthful condition may be 
more clearly understood by a knowledge of the chemical ele- 
ments of the human body. A body of 154 pounds contains, ap- 
proximately, 14 gallons of water (consisting of oxygen 111 
pounds and of hydrogen 14 pounds), carbon 21 lbs., nitrogen 



THE REFLECTOR 11 

'S lbs. 8 ozs., calcium 2 lbs., sodium 2^/4 ozs., chlorine 2 ozs., 47 
grains; iron 100 grains, magnesium 12 grains, silicon 2 grains. 
After death, the human body is, by gradual decay, slowly re- 
solved into its component parts, which elements are again used 
in the complex and wonderful laboratory of nature, to vivify 
the countless forms of vegetable life. These in their turn ful- 
fill their appointed law by yielding up their substances for the 
foimation of other bodies. What a suggestive comment on 
mortal ambition to witness the inhabitants of Egypt engaged 
in what they consider a lucrative business of exhuming the 
bones of the ancient inhabitants from the catacombs where 
they have been entombed for thousands of years and trans- 
porting them by ship load to England in order to fertilize the 
crops which are destined to assist in forming the bone and 
sinew of the British nation. There were killed in the Russian 
and Turkish war of 1877, 225,000 men and in 1881 about thirty 
thousand skeletons of the unfortunates were shipped to Eng- 
land to inake fertilizer. 

PASTRY. 

Apple Butter. — Boil new cider down Yo. Pare, cut and 
«2ore equal quantities of sour and sweet apples. Put the sweet 
apples in vessel first and add boiling cider sufficient to cook 
them. After boiling half an hour, stirring often, put in sour 
apples, adding more boiling cider, with sugar enough to 
sweeten moderately. Continue boiling and stirring till thor- 
oughly cooked. Pack in crocks and set in cool place for use. 

Apple Sauce. — Two barrels of new cider reduced half by 
boiling. Pare, core and slice up 3 bushels of sweet apples and 
put them into the boiling cider. Stir the whole mass constantly 
to prevent scorching, till of the consientency of soft butter. 
Flavor with allspice to improve taste. Boil in brass kettle and 
when done, pack in wooden or earthen vessels. Will keep for 
years. 

Apple Pudding. — Butter or suet crust, apples, sugar to 
taste, a little minced lemon peel, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice. Grease vessel, line with the paste, pare, core and cut 
the apples into small pieces. Fill the basin and add the sugar, 
finely minced lemon peel and juice. Cover with the crust, 
press the edges firmly, cover with a floured cloth. Tie securely 



12 THE REFLECTOR 

and plunge into boiling water. Allow to boil 2 hours; remove 
from basin and send to table quickly. 

Apple Dessert. — One pound sugar, one pound finely flav- 
ored ripe sour apples, one pint rich cream, 2 eggs, one-half cup 
sugar. Make a rich syrup of the sugar ; add the apples nicely 
pared and cored. Stew till soft, then mix smoothly with the 
syrup and pour all into a mould. Stir into the cream, or new 
milk, the eggs well beaten ; also the sugar, and let it boil up in 
a farina kettle; then set aside to cool. When cold, take the 
apples from the mould and pour this cream custard around it 
and serve. Flavor to suit. 

Apple Charlotte. — Soak i/o box of gelatine 2 hours in two 
small cups of cold water. Pare and steam 8 medium sized ap- 
ples ; when they are tender press through the colander and add 
3 cups of sugar and the juice of a large lemon. Mix the gela- 
tine with the hot apples and stir until they are cold, then put 
on ice to harden. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Apple Molasses. — Take new sweet cider juice from the 
press, made from sweet apples ; boil it down as thick as West 
India molasses. Boil in brass or granite kettle and not burn, 
as that would injure the flavor. It will keep in a cellar, and is 
said to be as good and for many purposes better, than West 
India molasses. 

Batter Pudding. — One and one-half cupfuls of flour, 1 
teaspoonful baking powder, ^2 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Steam 1 hour and serve with 
sauce, adding a cupful of raisins, or any other desirable fruit, 
either fresh or dried, to the above pudding, makes a most de- 
licious dish. 

Ginger Pudding. — Nine ozs. flour, 5 ozs. suet, 5 ozs. sugar, 
1 large tablespoonful powdered ginger. Chop the suet finely, 
add to the flour, sugar and ginger ; mix well. Butter a mould 
and put the ingredients in perfectly dry. Cover securely with 
a cloth and boil 3 hours. To be eaten with sweet sauce. 

Fairy Pudding. — Over % box gelatine pour 1 cup of cold 
water and let soak 1 hour. Let 1 pint of rich milk come to a 
boil and add to it 3 well beaten eggs and i/o cup of sugar; when 
it thickens, stir in the gelatine and in 2 minutes take from the 
fire and flavor with almond extract. Line a mould with stale 



THE REFLECTOR 13 

cake, pour in mixture and set away on iee. Whip 1 pint of 
creain and spread on top ; serve very cold. 

Fig Pudding. — One pound flour, 2 ozs. bread crumbs, 2 
ozs. finely cut suet, 2 ozs. sugar, 1 egg, i/4 lb. figs; cut in slices. 
Flavor with nutmeg; mix all with milk and boil two hours. 

Fiuit for preserving should be gathered in dry weather, 
selecting only the best; no bruised or decaying parts used. 
Use only the best white sugar. Make syrup in proportion of 2 
parts sugar to 1 of water. All unripe fruit should be scalded 
to render tender or it will not absorb the syrup. 

Apple or Peach Preserves. — Peel and slice fruit, place in 
stone or granite vessel, cover bottom with sugar and continue 
layer of fruit and sugar alternately ; let stand 12 hours, drain 
off syrup, boil and skim thoroughly ; then add fruit and boil 
slowly four or five hours; fill jars while hot and seal. 

To Preserve or Can Meats. — Parboil till free from bone; 
fill can nearly full and finish filling with rich gravy. Solder 
on lids, leaving small hole open in top and place in boiling 
water and continue the cooking. When thoroughly done, close 
apperture, while hot, with solder. 

To Preserve Fruit Without Sugar. — Fill wide-mouth stone 
or glass bottles with carefully picked fruit; set in a large ves- 
sel, under which a cloth of some kind has been placed on bot- 
tom of kettle to prevent cracks from heat; then fill with cold 
water nearly to mouths of bottles. Cork bottles with well fit- 
ted corks and boil for half hour, then fill bottles with hot water 
within an inch of cork and cork tightly. Lay bottles on side 
and change position twice a week for tw^o months. 

Another Method. — ^After paring and coring, put among 
them sufficient sugar to make them palatable for present use, 
about 3 or 4 lbs. to a bushel; let them stand about 10 or 12 
hours, or overnight, to dissolve the sugar, not using any water; 
then heat to a boil and continue the boiling with, care for 20 to 
30 minutes, or sufficiently long to expel the air. Have ready 
a kettle of hot water, into which dip the can or bottle long 
enough to heat it; then fill in the fruit while hot, corking -t 
immediately, dipping the end of the cork into the bottle-wax. 

Bottling- Wax. — Black rosin. GVo lbs.; beeswax, y^ lb.; 
finely powdered ivory black, IV2 lbs. Melt together. May 



14 THE REFLECTOR 

change color bj^ the substitution of Venetian red, or red lead ; 
Prussian blue may be used to color. 

To Preserve Eggs. — To a patent pailful of water, add 1 
quart of fresh slacked lime and 1 pint of common salt ; ijnix 
well. Fill a barrel half full with this fluid and put eggs ij\. it 
any time. They will keep for several months, almost perfectly. 

Baking Powder. — Take by weight 6 parts of bicarboriiate 
of soda to 5 parts of tartaric acid. Be sure of pure ingredients. 
Buy from a reliable druggist in proportions given. See that 
they aie perfectly dry; roll the lumps out, mix thoroughl^i to- 
gether; bottle tightly and keep in a dry place. 

Another. — One-half lb. ground rice, % lb. carbonate soda, 
:2 ozs. tartaric acid. Mix thoroughly and smoothly and allow 1 
teaspoonful to 1 lb. of flour. 

Another Way. — Thoroughly mix 6 ozs. carbonate of soda, 
4 ozs. tartaric acid, 1 teaspoonful salt and 1 teaspoonful pow- 
dered sugar. The above are more wholesome than many bak- 
ing powders placed on the market, containing burnt alum, va- 
rious starches and other cheap commercial substances. 

BREAD AND CAKES. 

Bread is perhaps the most important of all food articles 
and the necessity of some knowledge of the nutritious ele- 
ments and proper ingredients necessary to palatability is evi- 
dent. The flour used should be of the best quality. Care in 
kneading aird thoroughly working the dough is very necessary. 
The cooking should be continued about 1 to fi/^ hours. 

The secret of biscuit-making is precision, and dispatch. 
Laggards and lazy people are not successful cooks. The proper 
temperature of the oven is between 200 degrees and 250 de- 
grees, Centrigrade, equivalent to 424 degrees and 480 degrees 
Fahr., and may be known by the emissiorr of sparks from a 
piece of wood rubbed on oven. 

The best bread contains aborrt ll-16ths of its weight of 
added water and common bread much more than l-4th. The 
proportion of water, in certain kinds of bread, has greatly in- 
creased of late years, owing to the use of fraudulent nrethods 
of making the dough with rice jelly or moss jelly, irr which Is- 
land moss or Irish moss is used, by boiling 7 lbs. of irross in 10 



THE REFLECTOR 15. 

gallons of water auci usmg the resultant jelly in making tO Urn-, 
oi Hour into dough, whicli is then fermented and eooKed in tne 
usual way, tlie bread is claimed to weigh nearly double tne 
tlour. It is claimed that one-fourth ounce of carbornate of 
magnesia added to the flour for a -i lb. loaf materially im- 
proves the quality of bread even when made from the very 
wcrst seconds of flour. 

Corn Bread. — Three cups of cornmeal, Vo half cup sugar, 
1 egg, 2 tablespoons butter, l^^ cups sweet milk, 8 teaspoons 
baiing powder ; quick oven. 

Excellent Bread.— lOie ad 7 lbs. flour with 3 lbs. of pared 
and mashed potatoes, from which the water has been well 
steamed off previous to mashing; mix together while the 
potatoes are warm, adding about 1 spoonful salt; then add 1 
quart milk-warm water, with 3 large spoonfuls of yeast gradu- 
ally to the potatoes and flour ; knead and work it well into a 
smooth dough ; let stand i hours before putting into the oven. 

Dyspepsia Bread. — The following method for making 
bread lias proven highly salutary to persons afflicted with 
dyspepsia, viz: Three quarts unbolted wheat flour; 1 quart. 
soft, warm water ; 1 gill of fresh yeast ; 1 gill molasses, or not^. 
as may suit taste; 1 teaspoonful common soda. For the benefit- 
of the industrious house wife, it may be well to state that 30^ 
as that would injure the flavor. It will keep irr a cellar, and i& 
minutes baking will suffice for 1 lb. loaves and cakes, and 15- 
minutes additional for every pound after the first for larger 
ones. Thus a 1 lb. loaf requires % hour, a 2 lb. loaf % bout 
and a 4 lb. loaf 1^4 hours. 

French Bread. — Clean rice, %lb. ; tie it up in a thick linen 
bag, give it enough room for it to swell ; boil from three to four 
hours till it becomes a perfect paste. Mix with warm water 7 
lbs. flour ; adding the usual quantities of yeast, salt and water. 
Allow the dough to work a proper time near the fire, then di- 
vide into loaves, dust them in and knead vigorously. 

Lady Cake. — Beat up 2 lbs. butter; mix in 3 lbs. sugar,, 
rubbing well together for 5 or 10 minutes ; add 2 pints whites 
of eggs, a third at a time, work all up light, then add 4 lbs. 
flour and 1 oz. soda, dissolve in 2 pints milk and 2 ozs. cream 
tartar; intermix all well together, bake in pans about 1^/z 



to 
let 



16 THE REFLECTOR 

inches deep, in loaves that will weigh 2 to 3 lbs. when bakdd ; 
take out of the pans and frost on the under side. Mark in 
slices % ot an inch thick. 

Frxtit Cake. — Five ozs. butter, 2 lbs. flour, 1/2 lb. sugai, 1 
lb. currants, 1 gill yeast, enough milk to make a thick batteij, 1 
tablespoonful of powdered cinnamon. Mix the flour, leavijag 
out 14 lb., with the butter cut in small pieces, the sugar, cin- 
namon and fruit ; add milk enough to form a thick batter, ^nd 
lastly stir in the yeast. Mix it over night and set it away 
rise ; in the morning stir in the remainder of the flour, and 
it rise. When light, mould it out very lightly ; butter the pn 
and bake in an oven about as hot as for bread. 

Bath Cakes. — Mix well together 1 lb. flour, 1/0 lbs. butter, 
5 eggs, a cupful of yeast ; set the whole before the fire to rise ; 
after it rises; add i/4 lb. white sugar and 1 ounce of caraway 
seeds well mixed in and roll the paste into little cakes, bake 
them on tin pie pans. 

Fancy Cake. — Rub together 2 lbs. sugar and 1 lb. butter ; 
add 12 eggs, a few at a time, beat all up well ; add 2-3 quart of j 
sour milk, 3% lbs. flour, 2-3 ozs. soda, 2-3 ozs cream tartar and 
flour with extract of lemon. Mix up smooth and bake in scal- 
loped pans. 

Gen. Lee Cake. — Rub together 4 lbs. sugar and 2 lbs., 8 
ozs. of butter, 16 eggs, 2 pints of water and 2 ozs. chloride 
ammonia, with flour sufficient to make suitable dough to roll ; 
cut out with a scalloped cutter and bake in a warm oven. 

Ginger Cake. — Put 12 eggs and 2 pints cream on the fire 
in a copper or tin dish ; stir until warm; then add 2 lbs. butter, 
2 lbs. sugar, 10 ozs. ginger ; allow it stay on a slow fire and con- 
tinue stirring till butter is melted; then set off. When cold 
add 8 lbs. flour. Mix up smooth ; roll out thin and cut with a 
circular cutter ; place on paper and bake in a hot oven. 

Sherman Cake. — Put 12 eggs and 6 dessert spoonfuls of 
rose water into a bowl; whisk together and add 2 lbs. fine 
sugar and 1 oz. of ground cinnamon and flour sufficient to 
make a nice stiff paste; roll them out; cut into any desired 
shape and bake on clean white paper in a slow oven. 

Yankee Biscuit. — Work up 2 lbs. butter in a basin to a 
thick cream; add 2 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. flour, 36 yolks of eggs. 1 
oz. caraway seed, a little salt; whisk up the whites of the 36 



THE REFLECTOR 17 

eggs aud add tliein ; get a sheet of strong paper, fold it in re- 
versed plaits like a lau, to form trenches about 1 inch deep; 
fill a biscuit forcer with part of the batter; force out some 
linger like biscuits into the trenches about 3 inches long; sitt- 
ing sugar over them and bake to a light-fawn color in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Confederate Biscuit. — Work in 3 lbs. sifted flour with a 
ozs. butter, add 2 ozs. cream tartar; dish the middle and pour 
in 1 pint milk and 1 pint wafer, previously adding 1 oz. soda 
to the milk; mix all up briskly, but don't make too stiff. Flat- 
ten out and cut with a biscuit cutter; place them on buttered 
tins close together and bake in a quick oven. 

Southern Baking Powder. — Bicarbonate of soda 4 lbs., 
cream tartar 8 lbs. These ingredients should b? thoroughly dry 
and well mixed and put in air-tight cans. Use about 3 tea- 
spoonfuls to each quart of flour. Mix up with cold water or 
milk and put it into the oven at once. 

Some Pumpkin Pie. — Stew the pumpkin dry and make it 
like squash pie, only season rather higher. Use a little ginger 
or other spices to suit and cream sufficient to give a rich color. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Dot Am Good Ole Chicken Pie. — Take two good young 
chickens and cut in small pieces, season with peper and salt 
and small strips of salt pork; put in saucepan with water to 
cover it; boil for half an hour; add flour and butter to thicken 
the gravy ; have ready a large dish, served with paste, put all 
in the dish covered with a good rich paste. Bake for half an 
hour. 

Washington Pie. — One cup of sugar, third of a cup of but- 
ter, half a cup of sweet milk, 1 1-3 cups flour, 1 egg, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream tartar, lemon 
flavor. Grease 2 round tin plates and put in the above. Bake 
until done. Then put it on a dinner plate, spread with nice ap- 
ple sauce or sauce of any kind ; then another layer of cake on 
top. It is nice without sauce, but sauce improves it. 

Cream Substitute. — Take 2 or 3 whole eggs, beat them well 
up in a basin, then pour boiling hot tea over them ; pour gradu- 
ally to prevent curdling. It is difficult for the taste to distin- 
guish it from rich cream. 



18 THE REFLECTOR 

Ice Cream. — One quart milk, 2 eggs, % lb. sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls cornstarch or arrow root, 1 qt. cream. Scald the 
milk, yolks of eggs, sugar and cornstarch or arrowroot, until it 
is of the consistency of custard ; then allow to cool. When cool, 
add the cream whipped, and the whites of the eggs whisked to 
a stiff froth. Sweeten to taste, flavor and freeze in the usual 
way. 

Peach Ice Cream. — Two quarts ripe peaches, 1 cup sugar, 
mix well and set aAvay in a covered dish. Take 1 pt. of milk 
and 1 of cream; let come to a boil; mix together 1 cup sugar, 
IV2 teaspoonfuls flour and a teaspoonful salt; beat the eggs 
well ; mix all ; then add the boiling milk and cream. Replace 
in kettle and boil gently 20 minutes, stirring often to prevent 
sticking. When quite cold, stir in the peahces, which must be 
mashed fine, and freeze. 

Ice Cream with Raspberries, Mulberries, Gooseberries or 
Berries of Like Variety. — Pass 3 lbs. pickled berries through a 
course sieve, add ly^ qts. good cream, 2i/^ lbs. sifted sugar; 
mix well together. If a deep red is desired, it may be imparted 
by a few drops of cochineal ; freeze and mould out. 

Best Quality Ice Cream. — Beat well together 9 eggs with 
IV2 lbs. sugar ; boil 3 qts. cream, set it off to gradually cool and 
cook ; then add the sugar and eggs, flavor with vanilla or other 
flavoring to suit taste and freeze. 

The Best Method to Make Ice Cream. — To produce the best 
results in ice cream making, it is very necessary to proceed on 
some well devised plan. 

The following is about the best, viz: Beat the required 
quantity of ice very fine in a stout bag or other means and add 
fine salt in ratio of one part salt to four parts of ice ; mix thor- 
oughly with a stick. Pack the salt and ice, after mixing, 
neatly in the freezer around the cylinder to the top, then put 
in the cream (which should be as cool as possible) you wish to 
freeze, and, after covering, proceed to turn the crank back and 
forth alternately 10 or 12 times each way until the cream is 
sufficiently thick to beat, which will be known by the opposi- 
tion to the beater; then turn forward quite briskly for a short 
time in order to impart an even and good appearance to the 
cream. Make thorough work of the beating ; then remove the 
beater ; fill the pail with ice and salt and set away to harden. 



THE REFLECTOR 19 

It is a niiatake to introduce additional ice or salt, or allow the 
cream to become stitf while beatiug, or beat it too much or re- 
tard the freezing process by pouring off water fiom the melted 
ice. The right time to beat it is when it is dense enough to rise, 
or about the thickness of light batter. If beaten when rigid 
the product will not be so satisfactory. As cream expands in 
freezing, the cylinder should be three-fourths full and no more. 
A Freezing Compound. — Common sal-ammoniac, w^ell pul- 
verized, 1 part; saltpetre, 2 parts; mix well together. Then 
take common soda, well pulverized. To use, take equal quanti- 
ties of these preparations (which must be kept separate and 
well covered previous to using) and put them in the freezing 
pot ; add of water a proper quantity and put in the article to be 
frozen in a proper vessel ; cover up and your wants will be sup- 
plied. For freezing cream or other substances, this cannot be 
beat. 

CANDIES. 

Sugar, or some of its constituent elements, is one of the 
most potent factors to animal existence. It enters into all the 
avenues of animal economy in its production of flesh, heat and 
fermentative processes. The body is so constructed that it re- 
plenishes itself through a sense desire called appetites. Sugar, 
as a strength developer, is one of the most exhilarating and en- 
livening forces of nervous weakness or physical exhaustion at 
our command. Any one may satisfy their appetite without any 
disturbance, if the body is in a state to do so without causing 
too much acidit,y. Brown sugar is one of the best remedies we 
have for weak and badly nourished children. The candy fac- 
tory has entered largely into our commercial life and as a re- 
sult of the keen competition between competitors, it causes 
adulteration very unwholesome. Glucose is used very exten- 
sively in manufacture of candj^ 

The following colors can be prepared and used to suit the 
desire : Cochineal, 1 oz. ; boil 5 minutes in half pint water ; 
then add cream tartar, 1 oz. ; pulverized alum, I/2 oz. ; boil 10 
minutes longer; add sugar, 2 ozs., and bottle for use. Blue, put 
a little warm water on a plate and dissolve indigo sufficient 
for required color. Yellow, rub with some water a little yel- 
low gamboge on a plate, infuse the heat of a yellow lily flower 



20 THE REFLECTOR 

with milk-warm water. Green, boil the leaves of spinach about 
1 minute in a little water, strain and bottle for use. 

'Fondant is the name given to boiling syrup removed from 
the fire just before it hardens and is the basis for all candies. 

To Make. — To 1 lb. sugar add V2 pt. cold water, 14 teas- 
poonful cream tartar and boil lapidly for 10 minutes without 
stirring. Dip fingers into ice water, drop a little of the syrup 
into cold water, then roll it between the fingers and if it forms 
a soft creamy ball that doesn't stick, it is done. If not hard 
enough boil a little longer, and if too hard add a little water 
and boil and test again. Set aside to become lukewarm, then 
stir with a ladle until it is white and dry at the edge. It should 
then be taken out and kneaded, exactly as one would knead 
bread dough, until it is creamy and soft. By covering with a 
damp cloth and keeping in a cold place, it will keep well for 
several days and several times this amount may be made at one 
time. In making several pounds, it is better to divide the 
mass before kneading and each may be flavored differently. 

Candied Sugar. — Dissolve 2 parts of double refined sugar 
in one of water. Great care must be taken that the syrup does 
not boil over and that the sugar is not burnt. The first degree 
is called the thread, which is sub-divided into the little and 
great thread. Dip a finger in the syrup and appl}^ it to the 
thumb, the tenacity of the syrup will, on separating the finger 
and thumb, afford a thread which shortly breaks. This is the 
little thread. If the thread admits of greater extension of fin- 
ger and thumb, it is called the great thread. By longer boiling 
you obtain the pearl, which admits of being drawn without 
breaking by the utmost extension of finger and thumb. This 
makes candied sugar. By further boiling you obtain the blow, 
which is known by dipping a skimmer, with holes, in the syrup 
and blowing through them. If bubbles are seen, you have the 
blow. The feather implies more numerous bubbles and the 
sugar will fly off like flakes while the skimmer is being tossed. 
By boiling longer, you obtain the crack. It will crack when 
broken, and does not stick to the teeth. Dip a teaspoon into 
the solution and let it drop to the bottom of a pan of cold 
water, and if it remains hard, it has attained the degree termed 
cracked. 



THE REFLECTOR 21 

By following the above rules any kind of candy can be 
made or colored. 

Fig Candy. — One pound of sugar and one pint water; set 
over a slow fire. "When done add a few drops of vinegar and a 
lump of butter and pour into pans in which split figs are laid. 
When cool, may place on paper greased with parafine or sper- 
maceti. 

Peppermint, Rose or Horehoimd Candy. — Take 3 lbs. 
coarse brown sugar (or other kinds to suit) and add to it three 
teacupfals of water and set over a slow fire for half an hour. 
Put to it a little gum arable dissolved in hot water. This to 
clear it, if brown sugar is used. Continue to take off the scum 
'as long as any rises. When perfectly clear, try it by dipping 
and pouring a small teaspoonful into a saucer. If done it will 
snap like glass. Flavor with lemon or others as desired. 

Ginger Candy. — Dissolve 1 lb. double refined sugar in one- 
third pint of spring water; set it over a clear fire and let boil 
to a thin syrup. Have ready a teaspoonful of powdered ginger ; 
mix it smoothly with 2 or 3 spoonfuls of the syrup, then stir it 
gradually into the whole. Boil the mixture into a flake, watch- 
ing it carefully that it may not exceed this point; then add the 
fresh grated rind of a large lemon and stir the sugar constantly 
and rapidly until it will fall in a mass from the spoon, Avithout 
sinking or spreading when dropped upon a plate. If boiled 
for a moment beyond this point it will fall into a powder. 
Should this happen, add a little water and boil to the proper 
consistency. Dip the candj^ from the kettle and drop it in 
small cakes upon buttered pans, then set it away to cool. 

Popped corn dipped in boiling syrup and stuck together 
forms an excellent candy. 

Cream Candy. — To 3 lbs. loaf sugar add 14 pt. water and 
set it over a slow fire for half an hour; then add a teaspoonful 
of gum arable dissolved and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Boil it 
till it is brittle, then take it off and flavor with vanilla, rose or 
orange. Rub the hands with sweet butter and pull the candy 
till it is white ; then twist or break it or stretch it out into thin 
white strips and cut in lenghts to suit. 

Pastilles or Candy Drops. — Pound and sift double-refined 
sugar, first through a course sieve and then through a fine one. 
Put the sugar into an earthen vessel and dilute it with the flav- 



22 THE REFLECTOR 

oring extiact. Mix a little water with it. If too liquid, the 
syrup will be too thin and the drops will run together; while, 
It too thick, tlie syrup will be too compact and cannot be 
poured out easil}-. When the sugar is mixed in a rather stiff 
paste, put in a small saucepan with a spout and set it over the 
tire. As soon as it begins to bubble up the sides of the sauce- 
pan, stir it once in the middle. Take it from the fire and drop 
it in small lumps of the size and shape required, upon sheets 
of tin, to stand for two hours. Then put them in the stove to 
finish drying. As soon as they are perfectly hard and brilliant 
take them from the fire, otherwise they will lose their aroma. 
Color the syrup just before taking it from the fire. 

Cloves, Jasmine and Orange Drops are made by mixing the 
above paste with these respective extracts : 

Cinnamon Drops. — Mix 5 drs. powdered cinnamon and 8 
ozs. sugar with mucilage enough to make it into a paste and 
proceed as above. 

Pink Drops. — Flavor with tincture of red pinks and color 
vritli carmine lake. 

Rose Drops. — Mix the paste with rose water and color with 
carmine lake. Proceed as above. 

Lemon and Orange Drops. — Rasp off the yellow rind of an 
orange or lemon ; mix the raspings with double-refined sugar ; 
add 5 grs. of tartaric acid to every pound of sugar^ color with 
yellow like or saffron and proceed as above. If too much tar- 
taric acid is used, the candies will adhere to the sheets of tin. 

Chewing Gum. — Take prepared balsam of tolu 2 ozs. ; 
white sugar, 1 oz. ; oatmeal, 3 ozs. ; soften gum in water bath and 
mix in the ingredients ; then roll in finely powdered sugar or 
flour to form sticks. 

MEATS. 

There is no economy in the purchasing of meat of any kind 
not fully up to the standard. The best is neither too fat nor 
too lean, but presents a deep red color with fat and lean ming- 
led in such a way as to present a mottled appearance. The fat 
should be firm and the color resembling grass food butter. The 
thrifty, young animal furnishes the most delicious, appetizing 
and digestable, as well as nutritious diet. 

Beef. — The sirloin and rib pieces are the best for roasting. 
It is very essential to prevent the escape of the juices and if an 



THE REFLECTOR 23 

oven is used, pour a cup of boiling water over the meat when 
it is first put in the oven. Cook slowly and thoroughly. 

Mutton. — Select by the fineness of the grain, good color 
and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young. If 
well-fed, thrifty and fat, is for age ; but this is only for wether- 
mutton; the flesh of the ewe is pale and texture finer. The 
flesh of the ram is very strongly flavored, deep red and spongy 
fat. 

Lamb. — By observing the neck of the fore-quarter, it will 
be seen that the veins are bluish and fresh, but if a green or 
yellowish cast, it is stale. If there is a faint odor under the 
kidney of the hind-quarter and the knuckle limp, it is stale. If 
the eyes are sunken, the head is not fresh. 

Pork. — Pinch the lean and if it was a young animal it will 
be easily broken. It is old if the rind is thick and tough and 
cannot be readily impressed with a finger. A thin rind shows 
merit in pork or bacon. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth 
and cool ; if flabby, soft and yielding easily to pressure, it is 
tainted. What is called measly pork is very unwholesome and 
may be known by the fat being full of kernels and also when 
first slaughtered, the rind will present a well-formed eruption, 
which may be known by its appearance. Still-house fed pork 
is too spongy in character and does not cure well. Dairy-fed 
pork is the best. A pig three weeks old is nearer perfection 
for eating purposes, but should be dressed and prepared the 
same day used. 

Veal and Kid. — The flesh should be perfectly white, the 
fat enveloping the kidney should be wdiite and firm. That kind 
of meat does not keep long in hot or damp weather. 

Roast Beef. — The sirloin is considered the best for roast- 
ing. Split the meat, pepper the top and baste it well while 
roasting with its own dripping and throw on a handful of salt. 
When the smoke draws to the fire, it is near enough. Keep the 
fire bright and clear. From 15 to 20 minutes to the pound is 
the rule for roasting. 

Boiled Beef.- — The round is the best for boiling purposes. 
Put the meat in the pot. with water enough to cover it. Let H 
boil very slowly at first. This is the great secret of making it 
tender. Take off the scum as it rises. Ftom 2 to 3 hours, 
according to size, is the rule for boiling. 



24 THE REFLECTOR 

Beefsteak. — The inside of the sirloin makes the best steak. 
Cut about three-fourths of an inch thick; have the gridiron 
hot, put on the meat and set it over a good fire of coals and 
turn it often. From 8 to 10 minutes is the rule for cooking. 

Roast Pork. — Take a ham (may use shoulder, if desired), 
and prepare by thoroughly cleansing; cut the rind in squares; 
make a stuffing of grated bread, sage, onion, pepper and salt, 
moisten with the yolk of an egg. Put this under the skin of the 
knuckle and sprinkle a little powdered sage into the rind where 
it was cut; rub the whole surface of the skin over with a 
feather dipped in sweet oil. Eight pounds will require about 
three hours to roast. The jowl, loin and spare-rib are roasted 
in the same manner. 

Roast Pig. — Tablespoonful of butter, 3 ozs. of bread crums, 
18 sage leaves, pepper, salt and salad oil to baste with, table- 
spoonful of lemon juice one-half pint of gravy. Stuff the pig 
with finely grated bread crumbs, mince sage, pepper and salt 
and a teaspoonful of butter and mix thoroughly together. After 
stuffing the pig sew up the slit neatly, skewer the legs to 
allow the inside to be roasted ; put in oven and soon as it is dry 
have ready some butter tied in a piece of thin cloth and rub 
the pig with this often in every part. Then take 14 pint of 
gravy, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice and the gravy which 
flowed from the pig (guarding against scorching or burning) 
and pour a little over it and the remainder send to table in a 
bowl. Salad oil may be used instead of butter for basting, as 
it makes the crackling crisp. It will take about 2 hours for a 
small pig to roast and should be served, while hot, with apple 
sauce. 

Roast Veal. — Pursue about the course as roasting pork. 
Roast over brisk fire till it comes to a brown color; then lay it 
down, baste it well with butter salad oil, and when nearly done, 
with a little flour. 

RoBrSt Mutton. — The loin, haunch and saddle of mutton 
and lamb must be done the same as beef. All other parts must 
be roasted with a quick, clear fire ; baste it when it is put down 
and dredge it with a little flour just before taking it up. It 
will require about one hour over a brisk fire for roasting a 
piece of six pounds weight. 



THE REFLECTOR 25 

To roast fowls, the fire must be quick aud clear. If smoky, 
it will spoil both taste aud looks. Baste frequently and keep a 
white paper piuned on breast till nearly done. 

Roast Turkey, — A good sized turkey should be roasted 21/2 
to 3 hours — very slowly at first. The stuffing may be made 
with crushed crackers or crumbled bread brogen very fine, 
finely cut raw salt pork, pulverized sage and egg. Work all 
together and season with a little pepper. 

Roast Duck and Geese. — Take clear, clean sage and one 
onion. Chop fine with pepper and salt and stuff full. The 
goose should be thoroughly cleansed inside and out and wiped 
dry with a nice clean cloth. Put in vessel and cook slowly un- 
til brown. Duck is dressed in the same way. Wild duck, teal, 
pigeon and other wild fowls, season with pepper, salt and 
gravy. 

Fried Oysters. — Dry carefully wnth a clean cloth a dozen 
large oysters. Put 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of good, firm 
butter in a bright frying pan and as soon as this comes to a 
boil, put in the oysters and as soon as they begin to curl up, 
lift them out with a strainer and serve immediately. Oysters 
cooked in this way are very delicious, but the butter must be 
heated till the blue smoke hovers over the pan. To 3 well 
beaten eggs add I/2 pint oyster juice, a tablespoonful of black 
or cayenne pepper, according to taste. Work into this a gill 
of sweet oil until the whole becomes a batter. Lay the oysters 
on a prepared bed of cracker dust, then take them, one at a 
time, and dip them in the batter mixture, then in the cracker 
crumbs, alternately, four or five times. Do not pile them on 
top each other, or they will become too heavy. Fry in a pan 
of hot butter and serve hot. 

Mince Meat. — To economize by preserving meats likely to 
become tainted is one of the duties of the faithful house-wife. 
Take the heads and feet of three hogs, clean and cook thor- 
oughh^, carefully removing all bones, chop finely and add % 
gal. cooked apples, dried, fresh or canned ; 3 lbs. seeded raisins, 
2 lbs. clean currants, % lb. citron. 4 oranges, 5 lemons, freed 
from seed and tough bits; finely chop, then add 3 pints or 2 
quarts of sweet cider or 1 pint of apple vinegar ; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of pulverized cinnamon, 1 tablepoonful each of mace, all- 
spice, cloves and 1 grated nutmeg. Mix well, adding sugar 



26 THE REFLECTOR 

and salt to taste ; cook slowly 3 or 4 hours in granite or stone 
vessel. Seal and store in cool place. 

To Preserve Meat of All Kinds. — Pyroligneous acid, some- 
times called pyroligneous vinegar, is a dark brown color, hav- 
ing a strong smoky odor. A chemist immersed a piece of fresh 
raw beef in liquid for one minute, dried in the shade, and it 
proved to be in a good state of preservation two months after- 
wards. Pork, beef and flesh food of that kind should be 
salted for a sufficient length of time to become seasoned with 
it, then taken up, washed and dried. After it is thoroughly 
dried in the shade, put on a coat of acid with a paint brush, 
hang in the shade to dry. After it hangs a sufficient time, from 
three to five days, put on a second coat and follow with a third 
coat in like manner. Three coats are sufficient for ordinary 
purpose. This meat preservative is placed on the market and 
sold as liquid smoke. It will pay for all the trouble it requires 
to use it. A quart poured into a barrel of pickled meat im- 
parts a fine flavor and aids in a more perfect state of preser- 
vation. It is very cheap and an effectual preservative against 
loss. 

To Keep Hams at Any Season of Year. — Take unbleached 
muslin or other kind of thin, sleazy cloth and make into bags 
about one-third larger than hams. Get new, dry hay and place 
in bag to be used, a sufficient quantity, and place in ham and 
pack hay around it. A draw-string would answer w^ell to close 
and hang in a dry, shady place. The thin cloth will admit air 
and cause the hams to absorb the aroma from the hay. This 
will preserve for months. 

To Keep Grapes. — Take a water-tight barrel and thor- 
oughly dried bran, dried in oven or large pan, cover bottom of 
barrel about one inch thick, place upon this well selected 
bunches which have been gathered in the afternoon of a dry 
day, before they are perfectly ripe. Proceed with alternate 
layers of bran and grapes till the barrel is full. Be careful 
that the grapes do not touch, and finish with a layer of bran, 
then close as nearly air-tight as possible. Grapes will keep in 
this way for several months. To restore to freshness, clip off 
the end of the vine-end of each bunch and insert into red wine 
as flowers are put in water. White grapes should be put in 
white wine. 



THE REFLECTOR 27 

Dietetic Treatment of the Sick. — How often do we hear the 
well-kuown interrogatory: "Doctor, what shall the patient 
eat?" To answer this question satisfactorily, in many in- 
stances, is a very difficult proposition. Food to one seems t') 
be poison to one, and food to the other, and what agrees with 
one disagrees with another. The best index to the best and 
most nutritious diet a sick person may need is to be guided by 
the patient ''s desire. This has been my method for several 
3^ears, and where excesses have been avoided, it has given bet- 
ter results than any fixed set of rules. Care should be taken 
not to overload the stomach. There are cases, however, where 
there is little use for food and where the thoughtful nurse 
must look for something daintily appetizing as well as nour- 
ishing and at the same time easy of digesting. Never set be- 
fore the patient a large quantity of food and what is offered 
should be a very small portion delicately cooked and tastefully 
served. Do not give the same food often, as variety is charm- 
ing. It is not beneficial to the patient to keep waiting. Never 
leave victuals in the presence of the sick. The most nourish- 
ing preparations to meet this want are here given: 

Egg Broth. — An egg, i/o pint good unflavored veal or mut- 
ton broth quite hot, salt and toast. Beat the egg well in a basin 
and when frothy, add the broth, salt to taste and with toast. 

Beef Juice — Take a slice of fresh juicy beef without any 
fat, broil it just enough to heat it through, score on both sides 
press out the juice with a lemon squeezer into a hot bowl, and 
serve warm. 

Beef Tea — Take 1 lb. lean beef, beat into a pulp, put in a 
pint of cold water, place over a slow fire, let it come to a boil, 
then remove from fire, skim and season with a little salt. 

Another way — One pound of fresh beef chopped fine, soak 
over night in a third of a quart of cold water. Put the meat 
in two-thirds of a quart of water and simmer tAvo hours, adding 
a little water occasionally to replenish that caused by evapor- 
ation, and when done pour the broth into the liquor in which 
the meat was soaked, squeezing meat as dry as possible. Put 
meat on a plate and place in an oven, and when perfectly dry, 
put in a mortar and crush to a powder and mix with the liquor. 
Add a little salt, twenty drops of muriatic acid and three 
grains of pepsin. This should be used only when the tongue is 



28 THE REFLECTOR 

very red or deep brown color. Never use where there is a 
white coated tongue. 

Beef Tea— (No. 2)— Take 1 lb. lean beef, 1 pt. water, 1/2 
teaspoonful salt ; chop meat thoroughly, removing the fat, then 
put into a stone jar with the salt and water; cover with the lid 
and tie over a piece of thick brown paper; put into a moderate 
oven, simmer slowly for 4 hrs. and strain. 

Chicken Broth — Take I14 lbs. chicken, chop and crush 
bones, add 3 pts. cold water and a teaspoonful of rice. Bring 
slowly to a boil and let simmer 2 hrs. closely covered. When 
done, pass through a sieve into a hot bowl, pressing the rice 
through at same time. Let stand a few moments, skim off 
the fat and season with salt. 

Mutton Broth — Take 1 lb. mutton, finely minced, 1 qt. 
cold water, bring it slowly to a boil and let simmer for 2 hrs. 
When done pour through a sieve, skim off fat and season with 
salt and a little red pepper. A little fresh, well boiled rice 
may be added. 

Oyster Soup — Pour a teacupful of water in a saucepan and 
add 1 pt. oysters ; place on the fire and when it comes to a boil, 
remove and change and strain liquid into a hot bowl and empty 
oysters into another vessel. Put the empty pan on the fire and 
into it a piece of butter the size of a walnut and when it be- 
gins to bubble stir in a spoonful of finely powdered cracker, 
then add the juice of the oysters and half teacupful of cream. 
Let cook a few minutes, then add the oysters and when thor- 
oughly hot season with salt and serve immediately. 

Barley Gruel — Mix in cold water a tablespoonful of barley 
flour, then add twice as much boiling water as first used and 
a little salt. Cook for a few minutes and then add 3 table- 
spoonfuls of milk ; let again boil and sweeten with a little sugar. 

Rice Gruel — To one tablespoonful of ground rice and 1 pt. 
of water add a little salt. Rub the rice in the water; or better 
dissolve rice in a little water, while about a pint of water is 
getting hot in a saucepan over the fire and boils; stir in the 
rice and cook twenty minutes. If a richer gruel is desired, use 
milk. 

Graham Flour Gruel — One pint of salted water, and two 
heaping tablespoon fuls of graham flour. Put the water in a 
granite or earthen vessel over the fire and rub the flour in 



THE REFLECTOR 29 

half teacupful cold water and wlieu it boils, stir iu the desolved 
flour and cook 45 minutes. When done strain through a thin 
cloth, add a tablespoonful of sweet cream and serve warm. 
This is excellent for children or persons with a delicate stom- 
ach. 

Cream Toast — Use stale bread; cut slices thin and even; 
place on a thin platter in an open oven and dry it through, then 
place in a toaster and turn from one side to the other until it 
receives a deep yellow and uniform color; then pour over it 
boiling water and after standing a moment, drain it off; butter 
and salt it slightly, then pour over it a little fresh cream. Set 
in a hot oven for a few minutes, then serve it immediately. 

Panada Bread — Toast to a light brown several slices of 
stale baker's bread. Pile them in a bowl with sugar and a 
little salt sprinkled between them; cover with boiling water, 
cover tightly and set in a pan of boiling water, letting it simmer 
gently until the contents of the bowl are like jelly. Season 
to taste with a little sugar and powdered nutmeg and serve 
warm. 

Sago Jelly — Boil a teacupful of sago in four pints of water 
until quite thick ; when cold add a pint of raspberry juice 
pressed from fresh fruit, or half the quantity of raspberry 
syrup. Add enough white sugar to sweeten to taste and boil 
fast for 5 minutes. Pour into moulds. Use with a little cream, 
at pleasure. 

Blanc Mange — Yolks of three fresh eggs, 1 pt. milk. I/2 oz- 
isinglass, rind of % small lemon, 2 ozs, sugar. Dissolve the is- 
inglass in water, strain through muslin, put again on the fire 
Math the rind of the V2 lemon cut very thin, and the sugar; let 
it simmer gently until well flavored, then take out the lemon 
peel, and stir the milk with the beaten yolks of the eggs ; pour 
the mixture back into the saucepan and hold it over the fire, 
keeping it stirred until it begins to thicken ; put it into a 
deep basin and keep it moving with spoon till it is nearly cold, 
then pour it into the moulds, which have previously been 
laid in water and set in a cool place till firm. 

Milk Punch — One fresh ea:g and a half pint new milk. Set 
the milk in a clean saucepan over a moderate fire ; while it is 
heating beat the egg to a froth in a basin or a large cup ; when 
the milk begins to bubble skim off the froth as it foams; pour 



30 THE REFLECTOR 

it iuto the beaten eg'g, quickly stirring the milk in, continuing 
until egg is well mixed (without curdling) with about half the 
new boiled milk. Pour the remainder from the saucepan into 
the mixture in the basin and quickly pour the whole back into 
the pan, then again into the basin and so on until it is all 
frothy and well mixed. This cooks the egg sufficiently. Add 
a little salt, a lump of loaf sugar, a few gratings of nutmeg or 
ginger, according to taste, and serve hot. For cases of spas- 
modic pain from flatulency or other causes where brandy is 
often recommended, this is much safer to use. 

FOR PUNY CHILDREN. 

Teething — Tie a teaeupful of flour closely in a cloth and 
boil for 1 hr. When cold, grate fine enough to thicken a pint 
of equal parts of milk and water the consistence of porridge ; 
add a little salt and administer at intervals. 

Porridge — Take one spoonful of corn meal and one of 
tlour ; wet to a paste with cold water ; put the paste into two 
cupfuls of boiling water and boil 20 minutes ; add two cups 
of milk and a little salt and cook 10 minutes more, stirring 
often. Serve with sugar and milk, while hot. 

For Diarrhoea — Where there is disturbance of digestion 
with summer complaint, take the caul of mutton or lamb or 
the inside lining of a chicken gizzard and simmer in a pint of 
water, dusting in a little flour and salt. This is nutritious and 
allays the irritation of the bowels. Arrowroot made quite thin 
with a teaspoonful of sweet cream is nutritious and harmless. 
Do not make food for infants too rich and remember to feed 
sparingly. 

Barley Water — Select and wash 3 tablespoonfuls of pearl 
barley ; soak i^ hr. in hike warm water, while stirring pour in 
2 cupfuls of boiling water salted a very little ; simmer 1 hr., 
stirring often. Strain and add 2 teaspoonfuls of white sugar. 
When milk disagrees with infants harley water can often be 
used. 

TO QUENCH THIRST IN FEVER. 

Flaxseed Lemonade — Pour 1 qt. boiling water into a cov- 
ered vessel upon 4 tablespoonfuls of flaxseed. Steep it for 
three hours and then add the juice of 2 lemons and sweeten to 
the taste. If too thick add cold water. 



THE REFLECTOR 31 

Apple Water — Take some well flavored apples, 3 or ■! 
cloves, a little lemon peel, boiling water. Slice the apples into 
a large jug, peeling and all ; add the cloves and lemon peel and 
pour boiling water over them. Let it stand a day. It will be 
ready for use in about twelve hours. 

Slippery Elm Tea — Break the bark into small pieces, pour 
boiling water over it and cover closely and let stand until 
cold. Put sugar and ice in for summer diseases and may add 
lemon juice. 

Currant Water — To 1 qt. of red currants, 1/2 pt. raspber- 
ries, 2 qts. of water, add 1 qt. of syrup. Put the fruit with the 
water over slow fire to draw the juice for ^A hr. ; they must not 
boil. Strain through a hard sieve and add syrup. Other fruits 
may be used in the same way. 

Camomile Tea — One oz. of dried camomile flowers, % oz. 
dried orange peel. 1 qt. of boiling water. Put the camomile into 
a jug with the orange peel ; pour over it the boiling water 
and stand in the back of the stove, just close enough to the fire 
to keep it simmering till the strength of the peel and flowers 
is drawn out, then strain off for use. 

Dandelion Tea — Take 6 or 8 dandelion roots, according 
to size, 1 pint of boiling water. Pull up the dandelion roots and 
cut off the leaves ; wash the roots well and scrape off a little 
of the skin ; cut them up into small pieces and pour the boiling 
water on them. Let stand all night, then strain througn mus- 
lin. It should be quite clear and the color of brown sherry. 
This decoction should be made in small quantities at a time 
and used as a light beverage. 

Soaps — I, at first thought, did not conceive of the idea to 
notice this household necessity, since the manufactory has en- 
tered the field of industry to such an extent that most people 
depend on that source for their supply. 

Soap, Hard White — Take fresh slacked lime, sal soda and 
tallow, 2 lbs. of each. Dissolve the soda in a gallon of boiling 
soft water ; mix in the lime, stirring occasionally for a few 
hours ; after which let it settle, pouring off the clear liquor and 
boiling the tallow therein until it is all dissolved ; cool it in .1 
flat box or pan ; cut into cakes or bars as desired. It may be 
perfumed with oil of sassafras, bergamont or otto rose. For 
ordinary use a hundred pounds of good cheap soap can be made 



32 THE REFLECTOR 

as follows: Potash 6 lbs., lard 4 lbs, rosin 1-4 lb.; pulverize 
the rosin ; mix all together and set aside for five days, then put 
the whole into a 10 gal. cask of water and stir twice a day for 
10 days, when it is ready for use. 

Soap of Many Colors — Take soft water 3 qts., nice white 
bar soap 3 lbs., sal soda 2 ozs., Chinese vermillion and Chinese 
blue of each about 7 grs., oil of sassafras Yo oz. ; shave the 
soap into thin slices and add it to the water as it begins to boil, 
when dissolved set off the fire, take out a cup of soap and stir 
into it the vermillion ; take out another cup of soap and stir 
in the blue; then pour in the contents of the first cup, Stirling 
the mixture a little with a stick; then add the other cupful in 
the same way ; then pour into moulds or a proper box and when 
cold it can be cut into bars. It presents a beautiful streaked 
appearance. 

Hard Soap — Sal soda and lard, each 6 lbs., unslacked lime 
3 lbs., soft water 4 gals. ; dissolve the lime and soda in the 
water by boiling, stirring, settling and pouring off; then return 
to the kettle (brass or copper) and add the lard and boil it 
till it becomes soap ; then empty into a dish or moulds and when 
cold cut into bars and drj^ it. 

Yellow Soap — Tallow and sal soda of each 112 lbs., rosin 
56 lbs., stone lime 28 lbs., palm oil 8 ozs., soft water 28 gals. 
Put soda, lime and water into the kettle and boil, stirring well, 
then let it settle and pour off the lye. In another kettle melt 
the tallow, rosin and palm oil, having it hot, this being also 
boiling hot. Mix all together stirring well and the work is 
done. For smaller quantities: Tallow and sal soda each 1 lb., 
rosin 7 ozs., unslacked lime 4 ozs., palm oil 1 oz., soft water 1 qt. 

Soft Soap — ]\Iix 10 lbs. potash in 10 gals of soft water over 
night; in the morning boil it, adding 6 lbs. grease; then put 
all in a barrel, adding 15 gals, soft water. 

White English Soap — Six gallons soft water, 6 lbs. good 
stone lime, 20 lbs. sal soda, 4 ozs. borax, 15 lbs. tallow, 10 lbs. 
pulverized rosin and 4 ozs. beeswax. Put the water in a kettle 
on the fire and when nearly boiling add the lime and soda, 
when dissolved add the borax. Boil gently and stir until all is 
dissolved, then add the tallow, rosin and beeswax. Boil all 
gently until it shows flaky on the stick, then pour into moulds. 



THE REFLECTOR 33 

Transparent Soap — Slice 6 lbs. yellow bar soap into shav- 
ings ; put into a brass, tin or copper kettle, with V2 gal. alcohol ; 
heat gradually over a slow fire, stirring till all is dissolved; 
then add 1 oz. essence of sassafras and stir until all are mixed. 
Pour into pans about IV2 inches deep and when cold cut into 
square bars the length or width of the pan as desired. Wood 
alcohol can be used as well as any other flavor. 

Soap Without Lye or Grease — In a clean pot put 1/2 lb. 
home-made hard or soft soap and Mi lb. sal soda and 5 pts. of 
soft water. Boil the mixture 15 minutes and you will have 
5 lbs. good soap for about 7% cents. 

Hard Soap — Take 5 lbs. hard soap or 7 lbs. of soft soap» 
and 4 lbs. sal soda and 2 ozs. borax and 1 oz. aqua ammonia ; 
boil 15 minutes in 22 qts. of water. To harden add I/2 lb. rosin. 

Cut Grease Soap — Take 5 lbs. castile soap, cut fine ; 1 pt. 
alcohol, 1 pt. soft water, 2 ozs. aqua fortis, li/^ ozs. lampblack,. 
2 ozs. saltpeter, 3 ozs. potash, 1 oz. camphor and 4 ozs. pul- 
verized cinnamon. Dissolve the soap, potash and saltpeter in 
boiling water, then add all the other articles and continue tO' 
stir until cool, then pour into a box and let it stand 2-1: hrs. 
and cut into cakes. 

Hard Times Soap — Mix 26 lbs. melted and strained grease 
with 4 pailfuls of lye, made of 20 lbs. of white potash. Let the 
whole stand in the sun, stirring frequently. Previously rins- 
ing barrel with weak lye. No fire needed. 

Lazy Man's Soap — Take 2 lbs. of sal soda, 2 lbs. yellow 
bar soap, and 10 qts. of water. Cut the soap in thin slices and 
boil together for 2 hrs. ; strain and ready for use. Put the 
clothes in soak the night before you wash and to every pail 
of water in which you boil them, add a pound of soap. No 
rubbing will be needed, merely rinse them out and they will be 
perfectly clean and nice. 

Washing Fluid — Take 1-4 lb. borax. Vo lb. sal soda and dis- 
solve in 1 gal. of hot water ; let it settle and pour off in bottles. 
One gill of this mixture with a pint of soft soap or i/o bar of 
soap dissolved in hot water, is enough for a washing. 

No. 2. — Put a pound of saltpeter in a gallon .jug ; fill with 
water and cork; 2 tablespoonfuls to a pint of soap. Soap, 
wash and boil as usual. 



S4 THE REFLECTOR 

Bluing- for Clothes — Take 1 oz. of soft Prussian blue, pul- 
verize it and put in a bottle with 1 qt. of clear rain water and 
add 1/2 oz. powdered oxalic acid. A tablespoonful is sufficient 
for a large washing. 

To Clean Grease Spots — Grain alcohol, full strength, 1 oz., 
sulphuric ether 1 oz., benzine 8 ozs., essence of lemon 3-4 dr. 
Wet greasy spot with liquid and rub out with a sponge. 

Washing' Compound — Borax (pulverized) 8 lbs., chloride of 
ammonia 8 ozs., English rosin 8 ozs., indigo 1 oz., best Ij'e 1 
can or ball. If ball lye is used, less rosin will be required. 
Can lye is better, if a good quality. All the ingredients must 
be thoroughly pulverized and nrixed in a vessel, adding lye 
last. The lye must be dissolved in a little water before mix- 
ing with the other ingredients. To a tirb of water put in one 
tablespoonful, in which the clothes are to soak over night, then 
two tablespoonfuls to 16 gals, of water in which the clothes are 
to boil 30 minutes. 

Ball Blue — Take glucose 9 drs., carbonate of soda 4 ozs., 
common or ordinary ultramarine 2 ozs. ; refined or sirperfine 
ultramarine 4 ozs. ; add sufficient water to make stiff paste 
and roll out into a thick sheet, then cut and make into balls, 
drying with gentle heat. 

Stick Blue— Take sohrble blue 8 lbs., pulverized borax 4 
lbs., yellow dextrine 4 lbs., oxalic acid l^/^ lbs., gum Senegal 2 
lbs. The gum must be dissolved in hot water. Sift through a 
fine sieve the other ingredients, then mix all together to make 
thick paste, cut into blocks and slowly dry. 

Cheap Blue — Soluble blue 4 lbs., table salt 4 lbs., yellow 
dextrine 4 lbs., borax 4 lbs., gum Senegal 2 lbs., oxalic acid 1^2 
lbs., and sufficient water. Mix as above. 

Laundry Blue — Prussian blue 1 oz., oxalie acid 1-4 oz., rain 
water 1 qt. ; mix, dissolve and let settle. A teaspoonful will do 
for an average washing. This is a good ink, also. 

Wash Blue — ^Take 1 lb. pulverized Prussian blue ; work 
into a paste with hot water and mix with 1% ozs. ferrocyanide 
of potassium, and let dry. Pulverize and put away in cans or 
other container. 

To Give Fine Luster in Starch — Dissolve a teaspoonful of 
alum in a pint of starch. Will hold the color and luster to the 
fabric. 



THE REFLECTOR 35 

Gloss Starch — Take 1 lb. of cold water starch, made by 
soaking wheat biaii, 2 ozs. borax, 2 ozs. spirits of turpentine, 
2 ozs. glycerine and 6 pts. of water. Make a smooth paste of 
starch and a little water; dissolve the borax into the paste and 
add the 6 pts. of water ; stir and add glycerine and turpentine. 
One or two spoonfuls to a pint of water. 

Gloss Liquid Starch — Take 1 oz. of borax, 1 oz. spermaceti, 
1 oz. of gum Arabic, 2i/^ ozs. of glycerine and 141/0 ozs. of 
water. Boil with half the water the borax and spermaceti ; dis- 
solve the gum in the remainder of water and glycerine. Mix 
and strain while warm. This is used with cold starch, a wine 
glass ful to a heaping tablespoonful of starch. 

INK. 

One ounce each of extract of logwood and bi-chromate 
of potash, which is an orange red color. Take i/o oz. extract of 
logwood and 10 grs. of bi-chromate of potash and dissolve 
them in a quart of hot rain water. When cold pour it into glass 
bottle and leave it uncorked for about two weeks. Exposure 
to the air is very necessary. The ink, at first, is an intense 
steel blue, but becomes quite black, and cost you about 3 cents. 
and 15 minutes time. 

Jet Black. — Dissolve in i^ pint of soft water 3-8 oz. bi- 
chromate of potash and add 60 ozs. of extract of logwood dis- 
solved in 1 gallon of soft water. Dissolve 6 ozs. borax and 
iy2 ozs. shellac in 1 gallon of boiling water; mix all together 
while warm and 3 ozs. ammonia added. 

Green. — Cream tartar 1 oz., verdigris 2 ozs., soft water 8 
ozs. Mix and boil to proper color. 

Violet Ink. — Dissolve some violet aniline in some water to 
which a little alcohol has been added: It takes very little 
aniline to make a large quantity of ink. 

Blue Ink. — Take sulphate of indigo, dilute with w^ater till 
it produces the required color. 

Furniture Polish. — No. 1. Cider vinegar, 1 oz. ; aqua 
ammonia, 1 dr. ; butter of antimony, 14 oz. ; gum camphor, I/2 
oz. ; linseed oil, 4 ozs. Dissolve the gum camphor in the oil 
with gentle heat, then add the other ingredients slowly and 
shaking at same time. 

No. 2. — White wax, 8 ozs. ; rosin, 2 ozs. ; balsom of fir, 8 
ozs. ; melt at a gentle heat. The warm mass, completely 



36 THE REFLECTOR 

melted, is poured into a stone jar, agitated and 6 ozs. rectified 
spirits of turpentine added thereto. After 24 hours the mass 
should appear about like soft butter and is ready for use. Be- 
fore using the paste, the furniture should be washed with soap 
and water and thoroughl}^ dried. Use a flannel cloth in polish- 
ing. 

No. 3. — Oil of turpentine, 1 pint ; alkanet root, i/4 oz, ; 
digest until sufficiently colored, then add 4 ozs. of scraped 
beeswax ; put the vessel in hot water and stir until the mixture 
is complete, then put into boxes, or large mouthed bottles. If 
wanted a pale color, leave out alkanet root. 

TO DESTROY BED BUGS. 

Corrosive sublimate, 2 drams ; spirits of turpentine, 4 ozs. 
Mix and spread around places infected, bedsteads and mat- 
tresses as well as the walls of the room. 

No. 2. — Rub with a small painter's brush spirits of naph- 
tha into every part of bedstead, is a certain way of getting rid 
of bugs. The mattress and binding being examined and the 
same process attended to, as they generally harbor more in 
these parts than in a bedstead. Ten cents worth of naphtha is 
sufficent for one bed. 

PICKLES. 

Just as I was closing up this chapter my wife came in and 
said: "Don't quit until you say something about pickles."' So 
here it is. 

Sour Pickles. — Gather medium size cucumbers, wash in 
cold water ; soak in salt water over night, put in stone or gran- 
ite kettle, while soaking in weak salt solution. Take out of 
salt solution, wash in clear water, replace in vessel and pour 
on boiling water and let stand till cold. Pack tightly in fruit 
jars and to each half gallon add 1 tablespoonful salt, 1 tea- 
spoonful of alum and 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar; then heat 
vinegar near boiling point (don't boil), and fill jar. Set in 
s. cool, dark place. In gathering cucumbers for canning they 
should be clipped with a sharp knife or shears, close to the 
vine, leaving stem on the cucumber. 

For Sweet Pickles. — Proceed as above for sour pickles, 
then to 1/2 gallon of vinegar add 3 pints of sugar ; let boil and 
skim off all foam, for about 30 minutes, adding sweet pickle 



THE REFLECTOR 37 

spices, pouring syrup over pickles while hot. Seal and set in 
cool place. 

Pickle Beets, — For sour pickles, wash clean, boil and peel, 
place in jar, heat vinegar, put in salt, alum and sugar as for 
cucumbers. 

Sweet Pickles. — The same process is pursued as for sour, 
adding syrup the same as for sweet pickled cucumbers. 

Mixed Pickles. — Cut fine cauliflowers, white cabbage, 
tender beans, onions and cucumbers. Soak over night in salt 
water, squeeze out, place in jars with spice, ginger and pepper; 
cover at once with strong pickling vinegar. Seal and set away. 

Indian Pickle. — Take one hard, sliced, white cabbage head, 
2 cauliflowers, pull to pieces, 20 tender beans, 1 piece of horse- 
radish, sliced fine, 2 dozen small white onions, 1 dozen small 
cucumbers or gherkins. Cover these with boiling brine. Next 
day drain the whole in sieve, put into a jar, add of curry pow- 
der or turmeric 2 ozs. ; garlic, ginger, and mustard seed, of 
each 1 oz. ; capsicum 1 oz. Fill up the vessel with hot pickling 
vinegar ; seal, set away and agitate occasionally for a month. 

Vinegar. — Mix 25 gallons of warm rain water with 4 gal- 
lons of molasses, 1 gallon yeast, and let it ferment. You will 
soon have the best of vinegar. Keep adding these articles in 
proportions as the stock is used. 

White Wine Vinegar. — Mash up 20 lbs. raisins, add 10 
gallons of water ; let stand in warm place one month, and you 
will have pure, white wine vinegar. 

Commercial Vinegar, — Take 5 lbs. of acetic acid, molasses 
2 gallons ; yeast, 2 quarts ; put into a 40 gallon cask or barrel 
and fill with rain water ; stir it up, and let stand from one to 
three weeks, letting it have all the air possible and you will 
soon have good vinegar. If desired stronger, add more molas- 
ses. Should you at any time have weak vinegar on hand put 
molasses into it to set it fermenting. This will soon correct it. 
Set in a warm place. 

Varnish. — Varnishing old furniture to appear new is the 
pride of every house-wife. Neatness and attractiveness is the 
desire of nearly every housekeepr. To met this requirement a 
few selections are here made : The surface of pieces to be 
varnished should be thoroughly cleansed of all grease and dust 
by washing in a good strong soap suds and drying. Smoky 



38 THE REFLECTOR 

pieces will require the same treatment. The varnish will not 
dry unless the furniture is prepared properly. 

Oak Varnish. — Take clear pale rosin, 3I/2 lbs; turpentine, 
1 gallon, and dissolve, then add balsam of fir 1 pint. Can color 
to suit. 

Furniture Polish. — Raw linseed oil, V2 gallon; butter of 
antimony, 1 gill; alcohol shellac varnish, 1 pint; turpentine to 
make a gallon. Apply with a woolen cloth and rub till dry 
and glossy. 




^_ ^f^ 



The Farmer and His Associates 



The farmer and his varied relations in the fields of indus- 
try is the greatest link in industrial progress. On him civiliiza- 
tion depends for succor. On him, who holds the plow, turns 
the soil, sows and reaps the grain, garner and ship, depends 
the commerce of the world. Here is the backbone of all animal 
existence. Yes, the fowls of the air nestle about his field and 
bugs of every variety and innumerable in quantity visit him. 
Ants promenade the milk pan, sugar bowl and indulge in other 
mischief ; mosquitos and gnats pay him their respects occasion- 
ally, while the mice, rats and other vermin prey upon his grain 
and pace the barn yard to make inroads on his chickens. 

The man on whom our very existence depends ! The man ! 
The noblest work dropped from the hand of an All-wise Crea- 
tor. Does he need sympathy? Hard question. Being a power 
in industrial achievement, yet misdirected. He appears to be 
very well clothed with mortgages and seems to be satisfied 
with his condition. He knows the crack of the whip of pov- 
erty, but continues to move without switching. He is the 
mainstay of society, furnishes his own provender and will 
stand considerable milking without much kicking. Noble man ! 
Tied to the soil of his nativity, we extend to him our hand in 
token of friendship and brotherly affection. May he arise, 
push onward, upward and reach the summit of his chosen oc- 
cupation. The soil is the mother of all germinating proper- 
ties and should require and receive more attention in conse- 
quence. The fertility will become exhausted without some 
effort on the part of the tiller. The Chinaman returns as mucli 
to the soil as he carries away. It is one of the fundamental 
principles of that government to see that the soil is kept in a 
high state of cultivation. The discussion of this important 
subject requires some notice at my hands. I am glad to see the 
progress being made in agricultural lines. 



42 THE REFLECTOR 

Best Fertilizer. — Take a large tub, barrel of sufficient ca- 
pacity, put into it 20 gallons of water; add very slowly and 
cautiously 100 pounds of pure sulphuric acid. Be very care- 
ful while handling this article (keep children away) not to 
let it touch the skin or clothing, as it instantly blackens the 
skin and destroys the clothing wherever it comes in contact. 
When mixed with water it engenders a very intense heat. 
Throw into this mixture 200 pounds of bones. The sulphuric 
iicid instantly attacks and enters into a combination with the 
bones, reducing to a pasty consistency, and completely dis- 
solving them. Keep covered to hold the fumes as much as pos- 
sible, but turn the bones over occasionally, and when com- 
pleted dump contents on a platform erected for the purpose, 
and work into four times the amount of bog earth or road dust 
to absorb the moisture. Mix and pulverize with a wood 
shovel, so as to render more uniform for distribution. If whole 
bones are used, it will take six or eight weeks to dissolve them. 
The finer they are broken or ground the quicker it will dis- 
solve. This preparation bears the reputation of being the 
most powerful fertilizer extant. Its power develops its cheap- 
ness. For grasses, 300 pounds per acre; for corn, potatoes, 
beans, turnips, 450 pounds per acre ; for wheat, rye, oats and 
barley, 400 pounds; to harrow with seed or drill, 300 pounds. 
Sulphuric acid can be used in any amount with a double quan- 
tity of water. 

Tobacco Fertilizer. — Take 40 pounds of the best Peruvian 
guano to each 100 pounds of the superphosphate, made by the 
above process, and you will have one of the most powerful fer- 
tilizers for tobacco that can be made. Use as other fertilizers. 
To Make in Twenty-Four Hours. — Any farmer having an 
apparatus for cooking food for cattle can utilize it to a great 
advantage in the production of fertilizer by throwing the 
steam into a barrel filled with bone and acid through an ex- 
haust pipe. The heat thus generated quickens into activity 
the dissolution of the bones in a wonderful manner, and if the 
process is properly conducted it will not take over twenty 
hours. It is indispensable that the barrel be tightly covered to 
retain the steam. 

Home-Made Guano. — Save all manure from chicken house 
and keep from sun and rain. Keep a layer of black loam, pro- 



THE REFLECTOR 43 

cured from some swag or creek bottom (loam the best) 
spread on the floor. At intervals rake into a heap, mixing in 
ashes and pulverizing by beating with back of the spade. It 
should consist of the following proportions : Dried muck or 
loam, 4 bushels; fowl manuie, 2 bushels; ashes, 1 bushel; plas- 
ter, IV^ bushels. Spare no labor while mixing and mix thor- 
oughly. The elbow grease expended will get great returns. A 
little before planting, moisten the heap with water, or, still bet- 
ter, with urine ; cover well with old mats and let it lie till 
wanted for use. Apply it to beans, corn, or potatoes, at the 
rate of a handful to a hill, mixing with the soil before drop- 
ping the seed. This will be found the best substitute for guano 
ever invented. 

Manure for Almost Nothing. — If you have a dead animal, 
for instance, the body of a horse, do not suffer it to pollute the 
air by drawing it away to the woods or any other out of the 
way place, but remove it a short distance from the premises 
and put down four or five loads of earth raised or mouned, 
place the carcass thereon and sprinkle it over with quick lime 
and cover with dirt sufficient to make 20 wagon loads with 
what had already been previously added and in twelve months 
you will have 20 good wagon loads of manure well worth $20. 

To Test the Vitality of Seed. — Place almost any kind of 
large seeds or grain on a hot pan or griddle. When the vi- 
tality is perfect, the grain will pop or crack open with more 
or less noise. "Where the vitality is defective, or lost, it re- 
mains immovable in the vessel. The largest and most thrifty 
looking grain should be selected for planting purposes. 

To Revive Old Orchards. — Sulphate of potash, 30 lbs.; 
sulphate of magnesia, 15 lbs. ; salt, 35 lbs. ; plaster of Paris, 15 
lbs. ; chloride of magnesia, 5 lbs. All to be well pulverized and 
mixed with stable manure and then dug in around the roots at 
the rate of 10 or 20 lbs. to a tree. This compound is assumed 
to restore the elements to the soil of which it has been ex- 
hausted during many years of fruit bearing and the secret has 
been sold to hundreds at fancy prices. 

To Keep Young Growing Fruit From Cracking. — Pears 
and other fruit, at times, show a deformity of development, 
which shows a deficiency in lime and potash. These essential 
elements of the exhausted soil by the application of wood 



44 THE REFLECTOR 

ashes at the rate of 400 bushels per acre, which insures the 
renewal of the proper proportions necessary to supply the re- 
quirements, viz : 40 per cent of potash and 30 per cent of lime. 
This will check cracking of fruit. Applied to the roots of trees 
and vegetables, 12 quarts of soot mixed with one hogshead of 
water, is a most powerful stimulant of growth and production. 
A paint of soot and sweet milk applied to fruit trees will keep 
rabbits off. 

Salt and Its Uuses. — Salt appears to be as necessary to 
vegetable as well as animal life. Applied in combination with 
other manures at the rate of 200 pounds per acre, it never fails 
to produce results on all kinds of grain and vegetables. 

Bug Exterminator. — For potato bugs, mix (in proportion, 
if less is required) 1 lb. Paris green with 10 lbs. flour and sift 
on vines late of an evening or early in the morning, while the 
dew is on the ground. Striped Bug — Sift charcoal, pulverized, 3 
or 4 times in succession, then use a solution of hen house man- 
ure in proportion of 1 peck manure to 1^/2 gallons of water, and 
sprinkle the plants freely with it after sunset. Caterpillars — 
Use a solution of one part in 500 of sulphide of potassium, 
sprinkle on tree by means of a hand syringe, or spray. Curcu- 
lio — Make a very strong solution of water and gas tar, so that 
after standing 48 hours it will be powerful and dark colored 
like creosote. On the appearance of the eureulio, drench the 
tree thoroughly with a hand-forced pump, repeating it every 3 
days for 2 weeks, and destroy all fallen fruit. 

THE HORSE. 

Next to his faithful dog, is the horse the abetter of man. 
No animal has had to withstand the torture and barbarous 
treatment to appease the peculiar whims and caprice of man 
like the horse. Rode and drove in pain, he bears his afflic- 
tions without a murmur to obey his master. Kindness to this 
faithful friend is most generally compensated to full value. A 
horse trainer gives some valuable advice pertaining to this 
pertinent question: "In training horses, you must remember 
that there are certain natural laws that govern him. For in- 
stance, it is natural for him to kick when he gets badly fright- 
ened ; it is natural for him to escape from whatever he thinks 
will do him harm. His faculties for seeing, hearing and smell- 



THE REFLECTOR 45 

ing have been given him to examine everything new that he 
is brought in contact with. And so long as you present him 
with nothing that offends his eye, nose or ears, you can then 
handle him at will, notwithstanding he may be frightened at 
first, so that in a short time he will not be afraid of anything 
he is brought in contact with. All the whipping and spurring 
of horses for shying, stumbling, etc., is useless and cruel. If 
he shys and you whip him for it, it only adds terror and makes 
the obeject larger than it would otherwise be. Give him time 
to examine it without punishing him. He should never be hit 
with a whip under any circumstances or for anything that he 
does. As to smelling oil, there is nothing that assists the 
trainer to tame his horse better. It is better to approach a 
colt with the scent of honey or cinnamon on your hands than 
the scent of hogs, for horses naturally fear the scent of hogs, 
and will attempt to escape from it, while they like the scent 
of honey, cinnamon or salt. To affect a horse with drugs 
you must give him some preparation of opium, and while he is; 
under the influence of it you cannot teach him any more than 
a man when he is intoxicated with liquor. Another thing, you 
must learn to treat him kindly, for this you require obe- 
dience from any subject. It is better to have it rendered from 
a sense of love than fear. You should be careful not to chafe 
the lips of your colt or hurt his mouth in any way. If you do- 
he will dislike to have the bridle on. After he is taught to fol- 
low you, then put on the harness, putting your lines through 
the shaft straps along the side and teach him to yield to the 
reins, turn short to the right and left ; teach him to stand still 
before he is ever hitched up. You then have control over him. 
If he gets frightened, the lines should be used as a telegraph,, 
to let him know what you want him to do. No horse is natur- 
ally vicious, but always obeys his trainer as soon as he com- 
prehends what he would have him do. You must be firm with 
him at the same time and giye him to understand that you are 
the trainer and that he is the horse. The best bits to be used 
to hold a horse, to keep his mouth from getting sore, is a 
straight bar-bit, 4I/2 inches long between the rings. This 
operates on both sides of the jaw. The curb or bridoon hurts 
his under jaw so that he will stop before he will give to the 
fein. 



46 THE REFLECTOR 

Take your colt into a tight room or pen and with a long 
whip commence snapping at the colt's hind leg, taking care 
not to hit above the hocks, stopping immediately when the 
colt turns his head towards you. While his head is towards 
you approach him with the left hand extended toward him, 
holding your whip in the right, ready to snap him as soon as 
he turns his head from you. 

"In this way you can soon get your hands upon him. As 
rioon as you have done this be careful to caress him for his 
obedience and snap him for his disobedience. In this way he 
will soon learn that he is safe in your presence with his head 
towards you, and in a very short time you cannot keep him 
dway from you. Speak kindly and firmly to him, all the 
time caressing him, calling by name and saying, "Ho, boy," or 
"Ho, Dina," or some familiar word that he will soon learn. 

" If a colt is awkward and at first you miust bear with him, 
remembering that we, too, were awkward when young, allow- 
ing him his own way, until by degrees he will come in. If he 
is willful, you must then change your course of treatment by 
confining him in such a way that he is powerless for harm until 
he submits. If he is disposed to run, use a pole check on him ; 
if to kick, fasten a rope around his under jaw, pass it through 
the collar and attach it to his hind feet. In this way one kick 
will cure him, as the force of the blow falls on his jaw. If he 
should be stubborn, lay him doAvn and confine him until you 
subdue him, without punishing him with a whip." 

Besides the cruel punisment inflicted upon horses by a 
careless and heartless driver he is subjected to severe punish- 
ment in the winter season by having frozen bits forced into 
his mouth in cold weather, tearing the skin from the tongue 
and roof of the mouth, producing a heavy inflammation of 
mouth and throat, causing hide-bound, blindness and many 
other ailments. Bits, in cold weather, should be wrapped with 
soft flannel or leather. 

The Check Rein. — Flatter yourself in an effort to draw a 
heavy load pulling from the shoulder, with the head firmly 
fixed three or four inches backward from an erect position. It 
is possible that a protest would soon follow against such an 
unnatural as well as barbarous position. It is both cruel and 
use in every sense of the word, without any compensating 



THE REFLECTOR 47 

qualities to recommend it. No horse eau render the best serv- 
ice in an uncomfortable harness. 

Shoeing. — How many horses have been ruined and their 
usefulness destroyed by the haphazard way of shoeng. The 
majority of some smiths, as soon as they pick up a horse's 
foot, go to work paring the heel, from the fact it is the most 
convenient part of the foot, and thereby the heel and brace of 
the foot, causing, in many instances, the animal to become rac- 
coon-footed or contracted heels. The heels of a horse should 
be well kept up and the toe down. By lowering the heel the 
entire weight of the horse is thrown upon the back tendons 
of the legs and thereby producing lameness from overtaxing 
a very important set of tendons. By keeping up the heel, 
the weight is thrown upon the walls of the foot, therefore 
stumbling, clicking with other defects are prevented. Next 
the shoer commences to pare away the sole, thins it down un- 
til he can feel it spring with his thumb. The reason for such 
methods has evolved out of custom and proceeds further in 
its deleterious work by cutting the bars or braces and trim- 
ming the frogs of the feet. All the cutting, paring and smooth- 
ing of the soles, bars or frogs is a decided injury to the horse as 
well as to the owner. The frog is placed in the foot by nature to 
give expansion and contraction. By cutting and smoothiag-,. 
the foot loses its contour, the oil, necessary for its protection,, 
leaks out, the hoof becomes hard and cracks and corns- de^- 
velop. Horses that stand on board floors should have their 
feet wet every day or there should be a vat five inches deep.^ 
five feet long and three feet wide, filled with water and clay,, 
in which each horse can stand one hour per week, unless his 
feet are feverish, and then he should be kept in it an hour each 
day or until the fever subsides. The first thing that should 
touch the ground or floor is the frog of the foot and the walls 
should be pared so as not to prevent it from touching at every 
step. No man who owns a horse should ever allow a black- 
smith to cut the soles, bars or frogs of his horse's feet. Nature 
has adapted the frogs to all descriptions of roads, climates and 
weather without being pared. So many horses have been 
ruined by this process of paring that there are several estab- 
lishments in this country that manufacture India rubber pads, 
thinking thereby to supply the wasted frog and the elasticity 



48 THE REFLECTOR 

of a natural foot. The nervous sensibility of both in the feet 
and of the horse causes him to flinch and become excitable and 
as a result of his natural disposition he receives a very severe 
reprimand in the expressing of a few oaths or an introduction 
tc a bar of iron or stick of wood, which adds terror to it ; that 
ignites both man and beast into a flame of passion. If the 
horse should be handled in a way to create no excitement he 
will become perfectly docile and easily "managed. The walls 
of the foot should never be rasped above the nail holes and as 
little below the clinches as possible. All the rasping and filing 
tends to thin find weaken the wall by cutting the fibers of the 
foot. The nails should be counter sunk into the shoe, so that 
there will be no chance for the clinches to rise. No horse in- 
terferes with cork or toe ; it is always with the sides of the 
foot. The habit of turning the inside of the shoe under causes 
a number of horses to knock their hocks or cork themselves 
that would not if they were shod straight on the inside. Spread 
the heels as wide as possible, set the outside a little under; 
keep the toes full. For clicking horses, raise the heels high 
and cut the toes short. For speed, place the toe corks a quarter 
of an inch to the inside of the center of the shoe and keep the 
lieels wide apart. For corns, put on a shoe with a prong for 
the main rim, so as to cover the entire frog, pare the wall 
lower than the frog so that his entire weight will be thrown 
on the frog. Have the inner cork not quite so sharp as the 
•outer one, so that if he steps on the other foot it will not cut 
it; have the shoes as light as possible consistent with good 
service, as they are ordinarily made just about one-third too 
Tieav.y. Plenty of water and an occasional oiling makes horse- 
shoeing, in a great many instances, unnecessary. Since the 
liorse, because of his adaptation, is very badly abused by what 
•are termed "jockey tricks." These tricks are a source of great 
pain, at times, as well as amusement, and the financial consid- 
eration. To make the appearance of founder, a pice of wire, 
about the size of a No. 36 thread, is fastened around the fet- 
lock, between the foot and the heel, and hair smoothed down, 
■and left in place about nine hours. To lame a bourse, a hair 
Is taken from his tail, put through the eye of a needle, then 
lift the fore leg and press the skin between the outer and mid- 
dle tendon or cord and shove the needle through, cut off the 



THE REFLECTOR 49 

hair on each side aucl let the foot down and he will be lame 
soon. To keep a horse from eating, grease the front teeth 
and the roof of the mouth with common beef tallow. This 
method, in conjunction with small wire around the fetlock, 
wall cosummate a complete founder trick. To cure a horse of 
the crib or wind sucking, saw between upper front teeth. To 
put a young countenance on an old horse, make a small in- 
cision in the sunken place over the eye, insert the point of a 
goose quill and blow^ it up. Close the incision and the work is 
done. Shut down the heaves by pouring about a quarter of a 
pound of bird shot down the horse and as long as the shot 
stays with him he is not likely to heave. Pour some melted 
butter into the horse's ear and he assumes the symptoms of 
glanders. In glanders the discharge from the nose will sink 
in water and in distemper it floats. A true pulling horse will 
balk if one ounce of the tincture of cantharides and one dram 
of corrosive sublimate are mixed and applied to his shoulders 
at night. 

To Tame Horses.— Take finely grated horse castor, oils of 
rhodium and cumin; keep them in well corked and separate 
bottles ; pour a little of the oil of cumin on the left hand and 
approach the horse on the windy side. He will then move 
toward you or remain standing. Rub some of the cumin on 
his nose ; give him a little of the castor on anything he likes 
and get eight or ten drops of rhodium on his tongue. He can 
be handled as desired. Be kind and attentive to the animal 
and your control is certain. The recipe is said to have origin- 
ated in Arabia and has been used by horse trainers who paid 
as high as $500 for it. 

Balky Horses. — One method to cure a balky horse is to 
unhitch him and whirl him rapidly around until he is giddy. 
It requires two men to accomplish this — one at the horse's tail. 
Keep him in a small circle and don't let him step out. One 
dose will often cure; two doses are final with the worst horse 
that ever refused to stir. Hitch while giddy with his head in 
the direction you wish to go. Another plan is to fill his mouth 
with dirt or gravel and he will move. 



50 THE REFLECTOR 

DISEASES OF THE HORSE. 

Abdominal Dropsy — This is usually the result of chronic 
inflammation of the bowels. 

Symptoms — Head hung; mouth dry; membranes look pale; 
pulse hard. If the horse turns about suddenly the act elicits a 
grunt. Pressure on the abdomen will cause him to groan. A 
lack of spirits ; lies down constantly, if left to himself ; is 
restless, thirsty, no appetite; is weak, abdomen enlarged, yet 
the horse is quite thin in flesh, hide-bound and constipated. 
One of the legs and sometimes the sheath are swollen. 

Treatment — Empty bow^els by giving 4 to 6 drs. of alves ; 
tartrate of potassium 1 dr., ginger and castile soap each 2 drs. 
oil of anise or peppermint 20 drops ; pulverize and make all in- 
to one ball with gum solution. For brisk action 8 ozs. of 
glauber salts could be added to one-half the above. Dissolve all 
in 1 qt. of gruel and give as a drench. Keep this up till the 
water is all drained out, by giving a dose every three or four 
hours. 

This will act well : Twenty grains of the extract of bella- 
donna, 10 grs. sulphate of quinine, 35 grs. of the iodide of 
iron, 1/2 gr. of strychnia. Mix and give at a dose, night and 
morning. Mix 5 ozs. of the tincture of iodine with 2 ozs. of 
eroten oil. Apply a little to the abdomen by rubbing down the 
skin and shifting to a different location when the skin becomes 
sore. Some cases are incurable. 

Bots^ — The stomach seems to be the natural nursery for 
the protection and propagation of the stomach bot. When the 
eggs have remained in the stomach for a year they become a 
perfect chrysalis (that is the form of the butterfly before it 
reaches the winged state) and then they release their hold of 
the stomach and are passed off. It will be provided with 
wings in a short time and fly about, commencing the propaga- 
tion of its species, which passes through the same period of in- 
cubation. They are of two kinds, stomach and fundament. 
The stomach bot is the result of turning horses into the pas- 
ture in the summer months and are produced from the eggs 
laid on the fore legs of the horse by the bot fly. 

Symptoms — The hair looks dead and unthrifty and loss 
of flesh after running out to pasture. All horses which run 



T H E R E F E C T O R 51 

out to grass are most sure to have bots in their stomach and as 
there is so much misconception about bots and their destruc- 
tiveness to horses, we copy the results of a series of experi- 
ments with bots three-fourths grown. "When immersed in 
rum, they live 2i hrs. ; a decoction of tobacco, 11 hrs. ; strong 
oil of vitriol, 2 hrs., 18 mins. ; essential oil of mint, 2 hrs., 5 
mins. When immersed without apparent injury, in spiiits of 
camphor, 10 hrs. ; fish oil, -id hrs. ; tincture aloes, 10 hrs. ; in 
brine, 10 hrs. ; solution of indigo, 10 hrs. A number of small 
bots, with one that was full grown, were immeised in a strong 
solution of corrosive sublimate, one of the most powerful pois- 
ons. The small ones died in one hour, but the full-grown one 
was taken out of the solution 6 hrs. after its immersion, appar- 
ently unhurt." 

If the foregoing experiments are considered as giving the 
exact vitality, as expressed in the several methods, it would 
appear that treatment that would destroy the bot wovdd kill 
the animal. 

Treatment — The general condition should be improved so 
that the debilitating effects of the bots may not interfere with 
the health of the horse. About 1 to 6 qts. of grated Irish po- 
tatoes fed to a horse will prove effective. This is claimed to 
be a dead shot for bots. Give the horse, first, 2 qts. sweet 
milk, mixed with 1 qt. molasses; in 15 mins. afterwards give 
2 qts. of ver}' strong sage tea; 30 mins. after the tea give 3 
pts. (or enough to operate as physic) of raw linseed oil. The 
molasses and milk causes the bots to let go their hold, the tea 
puckers them up and the oil carries them away. After the 
animal has recovered sufficiently from the treatment already 
given, follow with a tonic or restorative. This is excellent : 
Saltpeter, sulphuret of antimony, sulphur and ground ginger. 
of each 1 lb. Mix all together and administer in bran or like 
substance, in such quantities as may be required. This is re- 
puted to be as good as the best. 

The Fundament Bot — It is like the stomach bot, that is, 
it is also the result of running out to grass. Instead of the eggs 
being deposited on the legs they are deposited on the lips of 
the horse. They are found in the rectum and under the tail. 



52 THEREFLECTOR 

Treatment — Inject a quart of raw linseed oil or tobacco 
smoke. A little wood ashes put in the drink daily or placed in 
the troughs is beneficial. 

Colic — Colic is a very common, as well as very dangerous 
disease. There are two forms: Spasmodic and Flatulent. The 
former is of spasmodic nature and will, in severe cases run in- 
to inflammation of the bowels and cause speedy death if not 
relieved. The cause is the result of drinking cold water when 
too hot ; costiveness, unwholesome food and an undue quantity. 

Symptoms — The horse is suddenly attacked with pain and 
shows evidence of great distress, shifting his position almost 
constantly and manifesting a desire to lie down. But in a few 
minutes these symptoms disappear and the horse is easy for 
a short time, when they return with increasing severity until 
the horse cannot be kept upon his feet. A cold sweat generally 
breaks out over the body. The legs and ears remain at about 
the natural temperature. He looks around to his flanks, mostly 
at the right side, as if pointing out the seat of the disease; 
scrapes the ground with his forefoot and will almost strike 
his belly with his hind foot. The horse heaves at the flanks ; 
he kicks and rolls and appears greatly excited and sometimes 
acts as if he wanted to urinate, which he cannot do on account 
of the urethra being spasmodically^ contracted. The sjmip- 
tom need not be treated, for as soon as he is relieved, he will 
pass water freely. Therefore, follow the treatment to relieve 
the colic as soon as possible. As the disease advances, the 
horse will frequently throw himself down with force, look 
anxiously at the sides and sometimes snap himself with his 
teeth and strike upwards with his hind feet as they do many 
times in inflammation of the bowels. 

Inflammation of the Bowels— Since colic and inflamma- 
• tion are closely related and the treatment somewhat allied, I 
herewith append a description of diagnostic symptoms: 

Symptoms of Colic — Attack suddenly; intervals of rest; 
motion or rubbing belly gives relief; ears and legs of natural 
temperature; strength scarcely affected; pulse not much al- 
tered in the early stage of the disease. 

Symptoms of Inflammation — Symptoms come on grad- 
ually; in constant pain ; belly quite tender and sore to the 
touch; ears and legs cold; motion increases pain; strength 



THEREFECTOR 53 

rapidly failing; pulse small and much quickened and scarcely 
to be felt many times. 

Treatment — If the cause is constipation, give a quart of 
raw linseed oil and if necessary add from 4 to 6 drops of croton 
oil. Bleed freely at the horse's mouth; then take 1/2 lb. of 
raw cotton, wrap it around a coal of fire so as to exclude the 
air; when it begins to smoke, hold it under his nose till he be- 
comes easy. If the cause is over-purging, give an ounce and a 
half of laudnum in half pint of water. If the cause should be 
other than costiveness or diarrhoea, give 30 drops of the tinc- 
ture of aconite root in a little water every two or three hours. 
Apply blankets rung out of hot water to his belly and renew 
often. Give an injection of lukewarm water, castile soap and 
a handful of salt every half hour until the bowels act. 

Where the symptoms show an inflammation, the acute 
pain will be best relieved by giving an ounce of sulphuric ether 
and 2 ozs. of tincture of opium in a pint of raw linseed oil, and 
if not relieved in an hour repeat the dose. Gentle motion by 
walking the animal is advisable, but if he is resting leave 
alone. 

The following can be prepared and kept for use at any 
time : Aromatic spirits of ammonia 1 pt., sulphuric ether 1 
pt., sweet spirits of nitre l^/^ pts., pulverized gum opium 4 ozs., 
gum camphor 4 ozs., assafoetida 4 ozs. Mix all together and 
shake frequently and let stand 12 or 15 days; then filter or 
strain through a flannel cloth and it will be ready for use. 
Give a teaspoonful in water every half hour. In severe cases, 
may increase the dose. A heaping teaspoonful of common 
baking soda in a pint of warm sweet milk acts kindly in many 
cases. If the pain becomes such that it is evident the animal 
cannot live much longer, tapping may be resorted to with great 
benefit. While the operation is by no means void of danger, 
yet a little discretion will suffice to perform it. Measure the 
animal from the point of the left shoulder to the point of the 
left hip ; then measure six to eight inches from the center of 
his back and just behind the eleventh rib. Take a keen pointed 
knife and insert and let the gas escape. Be sure to get low 
enough to miss the kidney. A trocar and canula might be 
preferred. 



54 THEREFLECTOR 

Bronchitis — This disease is an inflammatory condition of 
the air passages of the lungs. It is a very common disease 
among horses and is sometimes confounded with inflammation 
of the lungs (pneumonia or lung fever), distemper and colds. 

Symptoms — Begins with a chill, fever, harsh cough, la- 
bored breathing, mouth dry and hot, with loss of appetite and 
in one or two days, a discharge from the nostrils will be ob- 
served. 

Treatment — Place the horse in a nice comfortable place 
with even temperature. Give the tincture of aconite root, 10 to 
15 drops, and the same number of drops of the tincture of bel- 
ladonna every 2 to 4 hrs. until 6 or 8 doses have been given, 
which will likely relieve the fever. Give the horse plenty f 
water to drink. After the fever has subsided give light nour- 
ishing food. 

Corns — Corns appear in the angle of the hoof near the 
heel and are generally caused by the shoe being worn too long, 
causing the shell of the hoof to grow over the shoe which al- 
lows the weight to press upon the sole, the shoe gets moved 
from its proper position or perhaps was never placed there. 
Upon cutting away the horn there will be found a red spot ; 
but if very bad the color will be a dark purple and will be 
deeper seated. 

Treatment — Dress down the bruised part until quite thin 
and take sugar and put on place and with a red hot iron burn 
until the heat causes the animal to want to remove the foot. 
The sugar causes the heat to penetrate more thoroughly and 
the red hot iron will sear more quickly. This should be done 
at least once a week ; in the meantime use the following every 
day: Pure tar 16 ozs. ; fish oil 16 ozs., turpentine 8 ozs., oil 
origanum 2 ozs., tallow 4 ozs. Melt all together and use locally 
once or twice a day. It can be used in all kinds of bruises, cuts, 
or for softening the hoof. 

Curb — This is one of the many diseases of the hock joint 
and consists of an enlargement or gradual bulging out at the 
posterior part of the hock. 

Cause — Curb is generally caused by a strain from gallop- 
ing on uneven ground, wrenching the limb, prancing and leap- 
ing. It is one of the evils which occur among the better breed 
of horses. Man delights in showing off the animal he is 



THEREFECTOR 55 

mounted upon. Pulling the horse up suddenly when under 
speed, on their haunches, is a frequent cause of curt). 

Treatment — Rest ; if feverish, bandage and keep constant- 
ly wet with cold water in which saltpeter has been dissolved, 1 
ozs. to the pint. After the fever has. subsided then apply the 
treatment given for spavin, viz: Oil origanum 6 ozs., gum 
camphor 2 ozs., mercurial ointment 2 ozs., iodine ointment 1 
oz., melt by putting all ingredients in a large mouthed bottle 
and dissolving in a kettle of hot water. Apply once or twice 
daily for four or five days. 

Debility — This condition accompanies many conditions. 
For this reason anything which has a tendency to reduce the 
strength of the horse should be avoided while treating the 
various diseases, especially the chest. The symptoms are char- 
acterized by swellings of legs, breast, belly and sheath ; shows 
weakness by staggering as he walks. 

Causes — Excessive bleeding in treating disease, starving 
and insufficient and improper food given to sick horses when 
they should have been supported by good and sufficient food 
during their sickness. 

Treatment — Take of medicated food for stock of all kinds 
and mix with bran or othei pulverized or ground substance, 
from one-half to a teacupful, according to the nature of the 
complaint. This is prepared by taking linseed oil cake and 
pulverizing or grinding it into meal and to every 50 lbs. of 
this, add 10 lbs. of corn meal, 2 lbs. of sulphuret of antimony, 
2 lbs. of pulverized ginger, 1 3-4 lbs. of saltpeter, and 2 lbs. 
sulphur. Mix all together thoroughly and you will have an ar- 
ticle of food equal to anything on the market. 

Diarrhoea — When this disease is not attended with pain, 
as in colic, it will generally require no treatment; but if it con- 
tinues and the horse shows signs of pain, there is reason to be- 
lieve that there is some irritating poison retained in the bowels 
which does not pass away. 

Treatment — If there is fever, give aconite or'veratrum vir- 
ide in 6 to 10 drop doses, until fever cools, every 1 or 2 hrs. (re- 
membering that drugs like other things, are most wonderfully 
adulterated) ; then take 1 dr. each of prepared chalk, catechu 
and 10 grs. of pulverized opium; mix and give at one dose ; can 
repeat if necessary. 



56 THEREFLECTOR 

Dysentery, Acute — This disease, in the horse, is very vio- 
lent, because of the length and size of the intestines of the 
horse render any disease within them a very serious affair. 

Causes — Acute dysentery is caused by taking some acrid 
substance into the stomach, such as croton oil and aloes as a 
drastic cathartic ; tartar emetic, corrosive sublimate, blue vit- 
riol, arsenic and such poisons should be handled carefully. 
Food improperly used, at times, is a great source of trouble. 

Symptoms — At the onset, the symptoms are very obscure. 
As in nearly all intestinal troubles, so in this, there is abdominal 
pain. The pain at first may be unimportant or it might be 
violent, resembling colic ; the thirst excessive and stench of- 
fensive. 

Treatment — Keep the animal in a clean, pleasant stable 
and give a quart of raw linseed oil with 1 dr. of laudanum. 
After about 2 hrs. if there are no signs of relief, repeat the 
dose, then follow with tincture aconite and ipecac, of each 20 
drops to a pint of warm water, every 2 or 3 hrs. 

Cleanse bowels with warm water by flushing with all the 
water they will contain. 

Distemper — This form of sore throat is characterized by 
swelling between the bones of the lower jaw, which frequently 
terminate in absess. 

Treatment — If a correct diagnosis has been made wet 
bran with a weak solution of lye and water; feed the horse 
regularly and give plenty of water. Smoking with tar and 
feathers, if head seems clogged, will generally give relief. 

Epizootic — This disease attacks many animals at the same 
time and originates in one common cause, but just what this 
cause may be is a mooted question; yet it is evident that it is 
from a miasmatic influence which has a tendency to spread 
rapidly over the country. 

Symptoms — The attack is abrupt. There is debility, stup- 
or, eyes half closed, disinclination to move, cracking joints, de- 
ficient appetite, mouth hot, constipation, urine high colored 
and scanty, pulse weak and a little faster than normal; deep, 
painful cough, trembling at times, hair rough, ears and limbs 
are alternately hot and cold. Soon there is a discharge from 
the nose of a white, yellowish or greenish color and the horse 



THEREFECTOR 57 

may recover, yet complications may arise which are liable to 
cause death. 

Treatment — The same precautions should prevail here as 
in other diseases as to the place he is to occupy and, if cold 
weather, cover with a blanket. Make a liniment of strong vin- 
egar and salt, all it will dissolve, and used warm is very ef- 
fective ; but can be reinforced by an addition of 1 oz. each of 
green copperas, white vitriol and 2 teaspoonfuls of gun pow- 
der, pulverized together and dissolved in 1 qt. of soft water. 
Either can be used but at different times. Use the last part 
cold, and brisk rubbing if there is much swelling. 

Take 1 lb. each of ginger (pulverized), saltpeter, sulphuret 
of antimony and mix all together and administer in bran mash 
in such quantities as may be required, generally 1 or 2 table- 
spoonfuls 3 times a day. 

Farcy — This is a scrofulous disease. 

SjTnptoms — The hair looks rough and unhealthy; one 
of the legs will generally swell to a very large size, frequently 
the fore leg — hot and painful — and in a short time will break 
out in small running sores, discharging a thin, unhealthy fluid 
and sometimes the discharge is thick. On the side of the neck, 
body or inside of the leg will be felt a thick substance under 
the skin, but somewhat elevated and hardened and interrupted 
at distances with a small sore similar to that on the leg. In 
some cases soft, puffy swellings will be found about many parts 
of the body. 

Causes — Poorly ventilated stables, which are overcrowded 
with horses, inoculation from the virus of the glandered or 
farcied horses and this virus producing a ferment in the blood. 
Absorption of pus into the blood is liable to produce either 
farcy or glanders or some other z.ymotic disease. 

Treatment — Understanding the cause, we will readily re- 
cognize the treatment. We will have to, to some extent, be 
guided by conditions. Give a teaspoonful of sulphite of soda 
(not sulphate) twice a day. This will stop fermentation and 
purify the blood. It would be well to continue the sulphite 
of soda 2 or 3 times a week after the horse seems to be well. 
After discarding the soda, give condition powder described 
under epizootic. 



68 THEREFLECTOR 

Sulphate of copper, 2 drs., in bran mash at night until the 
horse refuses to eat it, when it might become necessary to dis- 
solve in water and drench him with it for 8 or 10 days. The 
animal should be isolated. 

Water Farcy — This disease is the result of weakness in 
the old and of inflammatory action in the young. From long 
continued labor, from 12 to 18 hours each day, the horse al- 
ready debilitated, is by abuse made a fit subject of water farcy. 
It is the custom of some to feed heavily on Saturday night and 
not visit the stalls until Monday morning, when they are liable 
to find the animal, so cruelly treated, with one swollen leg. 
The horse holds the leg up ; too lame and tired to eat, but will 
be thirsty on account of the agonies which his cruel treatment 
has brought upon him. 

Treatment — Better conditions. Let the work be lighter, 
the nourishment sufficient and better quality and the stable 
kept clean and well ventilated. Give gentle exercise. As soon 
as the limb can bear friction, let it be well rubbed with th6 
hands and repeated often. Bathe with cold water and rub 
dry. Use liniment named under epizootic and rub well. If 
swelling persists, then take 1 oz. each of potassium iodide, gin- 
ger, gentian, sulphate of iron, all pulverized; 2 ozs. linseed 
meal ; make into one ball and give at one dose, repeatedly for 
several days. Prepare as needed each day for the iodide of 
potassium should be kept in a bottle, until it is wanted to use. 

Founder — This disease is an inflamation of the sensitive 
laminea of the foot, of which there are two kinds, acute and 
chronic ; the latter being a continuation of the former. The 
acute form is invariably cured, if properly treated, but the 
chronic form is generally considered incurable ; it can be re- 
lieved very much but are afterwards sore and tender in front. 

Causes — Allowing to drink cold water when overheated 
and tired from overwork; standing in the cold air (or where 
the wind will strike the horse) ; and driving through a stream 
while warm ; long and hard drives over dry, sultry roads. 

Symptoms — The horse will stand upon his heels, with fore 
feet and legs stretched out as far as he can get them, so as to 
throw the weight off as much as possible, and he can scarcel.v 
be made to move. The horse has fever and considerable con- 
stitutional disturbances, in the acute form of the disease. 



THEREFECTOR 59 

Treatment — Give the horse a good beddiug of straw and 
an attractive place to lie down so as to remove the weight from 
the feet. Give 20 drops of the tincture of aconite every 4 hrs. 
and a teaspoonful of alum once a day for two or three days, 
keeping the feet thoroughly bathed in cold water. Rest is in- 
dispensible for a cure. See oil for corns. 

Chronic Founder will need feet trimmed and the oil used, 
in the acute form, once a day. 

Frost Bite — This is a state of numbness of a part of the 
body caused by intense cold, which, unless relieved by proper 
remedies, is liable to be followed by death of the part. Horses 
are most liable to be troubled with frost bites on the heels 
and the back part of the legs wdiich swell badly and are some- 
times mistaken for scratches. 

Treatment — It is very important in the treatment of frost 
bites that heat should not be applied suddenly, but that very 
cold water be applied, by which means the frost is extracted 
slowly. Any frozen part should not be rubbed until the frost 
has been extracted, then use the following liniment: Oil of 
spike, aqua ammonia, turpentine, each 2 ozs. ; sweet oil and 
oil of amber, each II/2 oz. ; oil of origanum 1 oz. Mix and apply 
once a day. Same good for almost any purpose. 

Glanders — This disease is alike fruitful of evil to man and 
beast and is generally considered incurable. A horse may 
have latent glanders for years and work well, the disease be- 
ing during this time as contagious as in its developed state. 

Cause — ^The cause is somewhat varied in different cases, 
and may be attributed to filth, starvation or to a debilitating 
condition, as lung fever, catarrh, or any disease capable of 
generating pus, which, being absorbed into the circulation 
forms a ferment within the blood. 

Symptoms — -The membrane lining the nostrils assume a 
purple or leaden color, accompanied by a thin, acrid, trans- 
parent and odorless discharge. This is the first stage, dur- 
ing which the general health does not suffer and the horse may 
do his ordinary work. The discharge becomes thicker and 
will sink in water. The membrane lining the nostrils will be 
found to be sore, ragged and depressed at the top, Avith veri- 
cose veins leading to them from all sides. The appetite fails 
and the horse assumes an emaciated and dull appearance. He 



60 THEREFLECTOR 

will be hide-bound and the legs swell during the day and go 
down at night. The ulceration is becoming very bad in nose 
and extending into the throat; the body is also sometimes af- 
flicted with sores. The horse ultimately dies in a wasted con- 
dition. 

Treatment — Since the disease is considered incurable, oc- 
casionally a case is cured in its early stage by giving one-half 
to 1 oz. of sodium sulphite and 5 grs. of pulverized Spanish 
fly every morning in bran mash. Give, at same time, every 
morning and noon, a powder consisting of 3 drs. oi' pulverized 
gentian and 2 drs. of sulphate of copper. Give medicine a long 
time, not only to cure the disease but to improve the general 
health. Give a good nourishing feed and change often. 

Grease Heel — This disease of the heels and legs of horses 
is characterized by a white, offensive, greasy discharge from 
the heels of the horse. The skin becomes hot, tender and swol- 
len and sometimes sloughs aw^ay, leaving an ugly sore. 

Cause — Sudden change of temperature of the earth, 
whether it be from heat to cold or from dry to wet. This dis- 
ease generally follows wet streets, stables or lands. 

Treatment — Keep the legs dry and clean and cleanse well 
with castile soap and soft water; then apply, once a day, 
verdigris i^ oz., rum or proof spirits 1 pt. ; mix and shake well 
before applying; or take lye made from wood ashes and boil 
whiteoak bark in it till it is quite strong, both in lye and bark- 
ooze ; when it is cold it is ready for use. After cleansing, as 
above given, apply with a swab fastened on a long stick to 
keep out of his reach, as the smarting caused by the applica- 
tion might make him let fly without any warning. It is a sure 
cure, but it brings off the hair, which can be restored after 
the cure is affected. Make and apply a salve made by stewing 
elder bark in old bacon grease ; then add a little rosin accord- 
ing to the amount of oil when stewed, in proportion of % lb. 
of rosin to a gallon of oil. Apply once a day. 

Heaves — This disease is due to rupture and enlargement 
of the air cells of the lungs, which lessen the horse's usefulness. 
There is every degree of intensity to be seen in this disease, 
from the case that is so slight that only an expert can detect 
it to one where the patient finds it very difficult to breath, 
even when not being exercised. 



THEREFECTOR 61 

Cause — In cases of heaves, horses are always greedy eaters, 
and it is an index to the feeding of enormous amounts of hay 
or coarse feed, which they are quite sure to eat if they can pos- 
sibly find room for it. Heaves are never found in racing 
stables where horses are properly fed, consequently it is but 
reasonable to attribute the cause to overfeeding with hay and 
coarse feed. 

Treatment — Restrict the quantity of hay and increase the 
amount of grain food, which will give the lungs more room to 
act ; then give 4 ozs. each of balsams of fir and copaiba ; mix 
with calcined magnesia sufficiently to make a thick paste so 
they can be worked into average sized balls and give one night 
and morning for a week or two. Give powders as in epizootic. 
Take 1 teaspoonful once a day. Or 1 oz. essence peppermint o 
2 ozs. oil of tar given the same way is reputed to be a very sure 
cure. Lobelia in teaspoonful doses is also highly recommended, 
used daily. Bran and linseed meal or cottonseed oil cake or 
meal, 1 pt. to a gallon of bran, wet before feeding, fed once to 
three times a day will be effective. 

Hints on Food — The cause of many diseases is hatched 
from feeding all horses in the same proportion, without any 
regard to age, constitution or the labor which the horse is re- 
quired to do. The impropriety of such a course is readily seen. 
Bad hay is about as good as none and more dangerous. Old 
horses will do better on chaff than hay, as their teeth may be 
defective. 

There is not sufficient nutriment in hay or grass for a 
horse doing heavy work. 

Corn meal which has been damaged is injurious and likely 
to cause inflammation of the stomach and bowels and skin dis- 
eases. 

Old horses should be fed ground food. 

Corn and oats will give more nutrition for a work horse, 
yet bran and other cereal products answer well . 

Horses should have plenty of water three times a day. 

A horse should not be fed nor watered while hot or tired ; 
he needs rest. 

Hip Joint Disease — This disease develops mostl.y in yonng 
horses and may be caused by rheumatism or some accident, al- 
though it is due oftentimes to a hereditarv taint. 



62 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

Symptoms — There appears a shortening of the leg and is 
slightly under the body and not doubled up and standing on 
the toe as is seen in diseases of the hock joint. In nearly all 
so-called hip and whirl-bone disease the true seat of the disease 
will be found in the hock joint. In hip joint lameness there is 
a dragging or swaying motion of the limb outward. An extra 
degree of heat will be found over this joint. 

Treatment — Give rest for a few weeks and begin the ap- 
plication of cold water to the afflicted part and continue for 
two or three days or till the fever subsides and tenderness 
subdued, then apply liniment given for chronic founder. 

Inflammation of the Stomach — This is an inflammatory 
condition of the mucous lining of the stomach and may involve 
the whole system. The cause is most generally from poison. 

Symptoms — The pain is so acute that the animal becomes 
frantic with partial insanity, but the symptoms are not wholly 
decisive. The following symptoms occur, but not all in the 
same case, nor do they occur simultaneously: Great thirst, 
loathing of food, redness of the membranes, frequent eructa- 
tions Avith bad odor, discharge of thick saliva ; rolling, paw- 
ing, panting striking at the belly, drawn up flanks, quick and 
small pulse, passing mucus in large quantities, straining, look- 
ing at the abdomen and loss of strength. 

Treatment — Drench with 15 or 20 raw eggs and follow 
with plenty of slippery elm ; place the bark in warm water to 
create a quick mucus. No danger in giving all the animal will 
take. Feed lightly, a little gruel from oatmeal, rice or soft 
bran mash, after about 24 hrs., giving plenty of water in the 
meantime. If feverish and mouth dry. belladonna and aconite 
of 10 to 15 drops each, every 1 to 4 hrs., according to fever. 
Equal parts of colorless hydrastis and liquor bismuth, table- 
spoonful every 2 hrs. This is excellent in any kind of gastric 
dsease. 

Influenza — An epidemic disease occurring in the spring 
or fall of the year. 

Symptoms — A chill followed by fever, cough, discharge 
of mucus from the nose, loss of appetite, great prostration, 
swelling of the legs and in some cases of the belly and breast. 
These symptoms vary some in different cases. 



THEREPECTOR 63 

Treatment — Cover the horse with a blanket and place in a 
clean, wann stable with good ventilation, but not too cold. 
Give 20 diops of tincture of aconite every 4 hrs. to reduce the 
fever and allow all the water the horse will drink. Feed light- 
ly. Take pulverized ipecac 45 grs., camphor gum (pulverized) 
2 ozs., squills V2 oz. ; mix with honey to form a thick mass and 
make into eight balls. Give one every morning. 

Kidneys — The kidneys are as susceptible to diseased action 
as any organ, but are not so frequently involved. 

Symptoms — The physical expression may be varied, but 
the auiinal walks with a straddling gait, and when seen it is 
always indicative of some disorder of the kidneys. 

Causes — Calculi, stony or gritty matter formed in the kid- 
neys, which passes off in the urine. It causes some irregular- 
ity in urinating. 

Treatment — Give 35 drops of muriatic acid in a bucketful 
of water every third day or twice a week. Should the animal 
fail to drink all the water at once, it can be given in less quan- 
tity and more often. Bloody urine is indicative of hemorrh- 
age and should be treated by placing a warm blanket over 
the kidneys or any method can be applied in such a way that 
the part involved can be soothed with heat and followed with a 
drink of flaxseed tea. 

When old horses are troubled with kidney disease they 
can be helped a great deal by giving soft feed, such as boiled 
or steamed feed, or newly cut grass, with flaxseed tea and 
plenty of good cold water to drink at all times. 

Inflammation of bladder has almost the same symptoms 
and requires the same treatment as inflammation of kidnej's. 

Infammation of the Kidneys — Cause — Hard labor, slip- 
ping, poor provender, taking a sudden cold after a hard day's 
work or drive, or after being under the saddle a long time, and 
also by an indiscriminate use of nitre or other diuretics. 

Symptoms — Short and quick breathing suggestive of pain ; 
more or less fever with quick hard pulse ; unwillingness to move 
the hind legs, which the animal straddles apart when he walks ; 
looking anxiously around to his flanks ; urine scanty and high 
colored and sometimes bloody. The, horse refuses to move 
about, and crouches beneath pressure made over the kidneys. 



64 THBREFLECTOR 

Treatment — Do not give diuretics to increase the flow of 
urine, as they will do more harm than good. Use hot fomenta- 
tions over the kidneys and change the cloths often. In the 
first stage, give 20 to 45 grs. opium or inject with a hypodermic 
syring morphine and atropine in proportions 1-4 gr. morphia 
and 1-100 to 1-150 gr. atropia, in from 5 to 7 grs., according to 
hemorrhage and the severity of the attack. Give linseed tea, 
all he will drink, and raw linseed oil for his bowels ; no feed 
for 24 hrs. and then very light and nutritious. If fever devel- 
ops as shown by increase pulse rate, give aconite in 20 drop 
doses of the tincture and repeat every 2 or 3 hours till fever 
cools. 

Lampers — A swelling of some of the lower bars of a 
horses ' mouth ; so named because formerly removed by a lamp 
or hot iron. 

Treatment — Pinch or cut the bars till they bleed and then 
rub in a little table salt, alum or some other astringent, which 
is much better than burning with a red hot iron. 

Pneumonia (Lung Fever) — In this disease the substance 
of the lungs is inflammed instead of the air passages, as in 
bronchitis. 

Symptoms — The horse will often have a discharge from 
the nostrils following a sudden exposure to cold, after being 
kept in a warm stable and then the disease is ushered in by a 
chill, followed b}^ fever, which is increased for a short time ; 
cold legs and ears ; quick and wiry pulse ; pain in the chest, 
which is aggravated by coughing, and a quivering of the sides 
and breast. The horse will not eat and continually stands 
with his head down and ears lopped and will not lie doAvn 
nor move about ; the nostrils are expanded. If the ear is ap- 
plied to the side of chest or neck, a peculiar creaking noise is 
heard. 

Cause — Perhaps one of the most frequent causes is a hard, 
fast drive against a cold wind, after being taken from a warm, 
tight and poorly ventilated stable, where several horses have 
remained through the night; or some different alteration and 
sudden change of heat, cold or moisture in an jinimal not ac- 
customed to work, or one not in a condition for work. 

Treatment — The stable should be a comfortable place ; not 
too cold and vet well ventilated. Clothe the horse according 



THEREFECTOR 65 

to the weather, but do not change suddenly from a heavy 
blanket to a light one nor to a damp one. Keep the legs warm 
with bandages. Give 25 drops each of the tinctures of aconite 
and belladonna in a cupful of water every 4 hrs. If pulse is 
full as may be known by listening and observing the chest, vera- 
tium instead of aconite should be used in 10 to 12 drop doses, 
and continue till fever abates. Give Epsom salts, a table- 
spoonful in water, 1 pt., every 2 or 3 hrs., or Glauber salts may 
be administered in the same way, or raw linseed oil or other 
mild laxative. Nourish with raw eggs and other nourishing 
and stimulating articles of food, but no hay or grass should 
1)0 given for a few days, after the horse is convalescent. 

Pink Eye^ — The name "pink eye"' has been extensively 
used in this country during several epidemics, to designate an 
epidemic distemper. This disease, by no means a new malady, 
prevailed to an alarming extent during past epidemics ; but 
prevails more or less, in some parts of the country in a milder 
form almost every spring or fall and is more likely to attack 
horses in crowded cities than those of the country. At times, 
it seems to be contagious, especially among young horses. It 
is a species of influenza. 

Symptoms — The horse, at first, appears dull, with a disin- 
clination to move ; the knees tremble, the eyes are swollen and 
look reddish, especially in the inner corners and the lids are 
also swollen and red ; the eyes are quite sensitive to light and 
are generally stuck up with pus. The membrane lining the 
nostril is red and appears inflamed, as well as the membranes 
extending into the throat. There is considerable fever from the 
beginning and the hind legs swell, first one and then the other 
and this swelling sometimes extends up to the sheath and along 
the belly. The tongue is foul, appetite poor, urine scanty, 
bowels constipated, the saliva or matter runs freely and it is 
with difficultv that the horse swallows. In some cases the 
swelling under the jaw suppurates and leaves an abcess. Early 
in the disease there is usually considerable los^s of strength, 
followed with great weakness. 

Cause — The cause seems to be a variable state of the at- 
mosphere, or sudden changes from heat to cold or dry to wet 
and as this may vary in its extent and character in different 
seasons, we find that there is some difference in the extent, as 



66 THEjriJiitLECTOR 

well as the symptoms of different epidemics ; that is, the cases 
which occur this year may only extend over some particular 
part of the country which will have certain symptoms com- 
mon to most of those it attacks, in which, perhaps, has not 
occurred in any epidemic for years. The disease often leaves 
the horse in a bad condition and bronchitis, nasal gleet, or 
glanders may result from it. If the horse is not in much dis- 
tress, coughs strong, does not appear weak, eats well, with a 
moderate pulse and the discharge appears healthy, and of only 
moderate quantity, there will usually be but little danger if 
properly cared for ; but if there is great prostration, wdth inor- 
dinate local and constitutional smyptoms, the danger is very 
great. 

Treatment — Place the animal in a pleasant and well ven- 
tilated stable, but all drafts of cold air should be avoided. 
Good nice straw should be provided for bedding. In severe 
weather the horse should be kept warm with blankets. Give a 
nourishing diet of flaxseed or oatmeal gruel. 

The discharge from the nose may be encouraged by pour- 
ing one or two quarts of water, boiling hot, on a quart of bran ; 
10 dops of carbolic acid, a small handfiil of salt and a little 
hops all mixed together and held under a funnel-shaped piece 
of cloth or blanket, which will conduct the steam up to the 
head. A good liniment might be applied, sirch as: 2ozs. each 
of linseed oil, turpentine, kerosene (coal oil) and a half tea- 
cupful of strong apple vinegar well beaten together with seven 
eggs and applied two or three times a day. 

Pleurisy — This is an inflammation of the membrane cover- 
ing the lungs and lining the cavity of the chest. It divides the 
thoracic from the abdominal cavity. 

Symptoms — A chill, a fever and an occasional painful and 
short cough, careful breathing, and a disinclination to turn 
quickly, A peculiar line will usually be seen extending from 
the haunch, around the belly to the breast bone. The breath is 
not so quick and short as it is in the inflamnration of the lungs. 

Causes — Broken ribs or wounds and other causes similar to 
lung fever. 

Treatment — The treatment should be about the same as 
for lung fever. Feed well while the horse is convalescing. 



THEREFECTOR 67 

Abscess of the Lungs — This is sometimes the termination 
of lung- fever (pneumonia) and is a disease that almost in- 
variably terminates fatally. 

Treatment — Since we have in this disease a twin sister to 
glanders, the treatment must be on the restorative and aseptic 
line. Give plenty of raw eggs and Echinacea Angustifolia or 
Baptesia Tinctoria in 20 to 60 drops every 4 hrs. to destroy 
pns development. Continue treatment by giving Iris Versicolor 
from 10 to 15 drops 3 or 4 times a day to act as a restorative. 

Nasal Gleet — This is a discharge from the nostrils, of a 
whitish mucopurulent matter. 

Cause — Neglecting to treat properly catarrh and colds. 
The horse may look well and feel well and the general health 
quite good. 

Treatment — The same as for bots. To a tablespoonful of 
equal parts of Geranium Maculatum and White Pond Lily add 
1 qt. of boiling water; when about milk warm dissolve 1 tea- 
spoonful of table salt then strain and use as a douch with a 
syringe. 

Poll Evil — This is the formation of pus like an abscess 
on top and between the ears of the head and has its counter- 
part in the fistula located on the neck above and a little for- 
ward of the shoulders. 

Cause — A bruise or disease of the bone or involvement of 
tissue. 

Treatment — Open the swelling as soon as it becomes a little 
soft, before the pus has had time to burrow down between the 
bones and thus prevent the spread of the disease. Make a large 
opening, so as to allow all the pus to escape and syringe out 
with a solution of carbolic acid, fifty drops to a pint of water. 
Take a pound bar of lead and melt in a ladle or other vessel 
and pour in sulphur to form a powder. If there is not enough 
sulphur to change all the lead to a powder, the residue will 
sink to the bottom. Put this powder into the cavity through 
the opening from which the pus escapes, once a day. This is 
reputed to cure fistula in a very short time without pain. 

Quittor — A chronic abscess of the hoof, caused by a bruise 
or confined pus from supuration, corn, etc. 



68 THEREFLECTOR 

Symptoms — The horse is very lame on account of the in- 
flammation before supuration takes place, but is relieved some- 
what after the quittor has burst. 

Treatment — This should begin as soon as any lameness is 
discovered and the inflammation stopped, if possible, before 
supuration takes place. Mix and apply to the hoof three times 
a day, equal parts of tar and turpentine 8 ozs., and whale oil 
8 ozs. The hoof should be previously washed with soap and 
warm water. 

Rheumatism — In acute rheumatism there is great excite- 
ment and fever with severe pain in the legs and joints. This 
pain is so severe that the horse hardly dares to move from the 
place he occupies, on account of tlie extreme pain which it 
causes. He has no unnatural heat in the feet as in founder. 

Cause — Exposure to a draft of cold air, when a horse has 
been heated, thus suddenly checking perspiration. 

Treatment — Place the horse in a good comfortable stable 
as soon thereafter as possible when it is discovered that he has 
acute rheumatism and give 25 drops of aconite every 4 hours 
until 5 or 6 doses are given. Cover with blankets. Mix and 
divide into eight equal parts 4 ozs. of bicarbonate of soda, 8 
ozs. of sulphur, 4 ozs. of pulverized saltpeter and give one 
part 3 or 4 times a day, according to the severity of the case. 
Bathe parts affected with the following every 3 hrs. : 1 oz. 
Spanish fly, 1 oz. yellow rosin and 3 ozs. lard ; mix the lard 
and rosin together and add the flies to which add 1 pt. of the 
spirits of turpentine. This may cause a blister or considerable 
soreness about the third day, at which time wash leg with lin- 
seed oil. In 6 days wash with soap and water till thoroughly 
cleansed. May repeat in 4 or 6 days, if necessary. 

Chronic Rheumatism — This is a frequent cause of lameness, 
and it is oftentimes difficult to decide fully as to the cause of 
the trouble. Treatment is about the same as for acute rheu- 
matism, but must be continued longer. 

Ring-Bone — Ring-bone is usually the result of weakness, 
heriditary predisposition, or a peculiar formation of the pastern 
joints which make them poorly adapted to hard labor; and 
therefore a provisional callous (or bony substance) is thrown 
out as a provision of nature to strengthen parts which are too 
weak. Only slight injuries to such a joint may result in the 



THEREPECTOR 69 

development of ring-bone. The treatment above given will 
generally suffice. Success is not over flattering. 

Saddle Galls are sores produced by the saddle or any part 
of harness. 

Treatment — Remove the cause, adjusting the parts so as to 
avoid the pressure, and apply the following liniment two or 
three times a day : 4 ozs. rosin, 4 ozs. beeswax, 8 ozs. fresh lard 
or butter, 2 ozs. honey. Mix thoroughly and slowly, bring to a 
boil then add a little less than a pint of turpentine ; remove 
from fire and stir till cool. Excellent for hoofs of horses and 
is unsurpassed as a liniment for man or beast. 

Scratches — An inflammation of the skin of the heel of the 
first appearance of which is a dry and scurvy state of the .skin 
of the heel, with redness, heat and itching. 

^hreatment — Wash the affected parts nvith warm sioft 
water and castile soap and dry ; then apply twice a day : 8 ozs. 
glycerine and 1 dr. carbolic acid mixed together. 

Shoulder Lameness — This is common among young horses, 
when plowing in the furrow, or it may result by a slip sideways 
by a horse of any age. Horses in cities are especially liable to 
this difficulty. The muscles of the shoulder and sometimes the 
shoulder joints are involved. 

Symptoms — Heat, tenderness and sometimes swelling of 
the parts. It is sometimes difficult to ascertain the exact lo- 
cation of the lameness but by making a thorough examination 
of all the parts and finding no lameness, heat or tenderness in 
other parts, it will be quite certain that the difficulty is located 
in the shoulder, especially if it is found hot and tender. The 
horse steps shorter with the sound leg than with the lame one, 
which he drags along. In nearly all diseases of the foot the 
horse stretches the leg out straight forward, but in shoulder 
lameness it will be carried out more from the body. 

Treatment — The horse should have entire rest and the 
shoulder should have cold water cloths applied two or three 
clays with frequent changes. As soon as the heat has been 
subdued the cold water cloths may be left off and use liniment 
for ring-bone. 

Shoulder Joint Lameness— This difficulty, being located 
in the joint, is much more serious than the shoulder lameness 
just described, and more difficult to affect a cure. 



70 THEREFLECTOR 

Symptoms — The animal drags the leg, with the toe on the 
ground and throws the leg out in attempting to move it. He 
raises the foot with great difficulty. 

Treatment — If the animal has been neglected in the early 
stages of the disease the case will be very obstinate and of long 
deration. Given rest and a pleasant place to lie will aid other 
treatment materially. Apply cold applications to reduce heat 
and follow the treatment given for ailments of the same nature. 

Matige — This and other allied skin diseases are reputed 
to be eontau.ious and is caused by a very small insect burrowing 
into the f-J^■ju. 

Symptoms — The horse rubs himself against anything he 
can get at. Small pimples are seen about the head and neck 
under the mane. The hair falls out, leaving the skin exposed, 
with red colored points and fissures. The skin becomes dry 
anvl nalvcd anj the itching is intense. 

Treatment — Give the horse a good scrubbing with a coarse 
brash and ,vash him well with castile soap and water and dry 
carefully. As soon as the horse is thoroughly dry apply an 
ointment made of 4 ozs. of sulphur, 10 ozs. of lard and i/^ oz. 
of carboiie ^cid, once or twice a day. 

Spavin — In nearly all the lameness of the hind leg the seat 
of the disease will be found in the hock joint, although the 
trouble is frequently located in the hip, because no swelling 
can be detected in the hock joint; but in many of the worst 
cases there is no swelling observed or enlargement for some 
time, and perhaps never. 

Bone Spavin is a growth of irregular bony matter from the 
bones of the joint and situated on the inside and in front of the 
joint. 

Cause — The causes of spavins are quite numerous, but 
usually they are sprains, blows, hard work and in fact any 
cause exciting inflammation of the joint. Hereditary predispo- 
sition in horses is a frequent cause. 

Symptoms^ — The symptoms vary in different cases. In 
some horses the lameness comes on very gradually while in 
others it comes on more rapidly. It is usually five to eight 
weeks before any enlargement appears. There is marked lame- 
ness when the horse starts out, but he usually gets over it af- 
ter a short drive and if allowed to stand for awhile will start 



THEREFLECTOR 71 

lame again. There is sometimes a reflected action, causing a 
little difference in the appearance over the hip joint and if no 
enlargement has made its appearance a person not having any 
experience, is very likely to be deceived in regard to the true 
location of the difficulty. The horse will stand on either leg, 
but when he is resting the lame leg, he stands on the toe. If 
the joint becomes consolidated the horse will become stiff in 
the leg, but may not have much pain. 

Treatment — In uncomplicated cases, there is some hope 
for a cure, but where there is anchylosis (stiff joint) a cure 
is impossible. In any bony growths like spavin or ring-bone, 
it will be exceedingly difficult to determine just when there 
is sufficient deposit of phosphate of lime so that it is completely 
ossified, for the reason that in some cases the lime is deposited 
faster than in others and therefore one case may be completely 
ossified in a few months, while in another it will be as many 
years. The cases not completely ossified may reasonably be 
expected to be cured. 

The following liniment is reputed to cure spavin or ring- 
bone : 

No. 1 — Balsam of fir and Spanish fly, of each 2 ozs. ; eu- 
phorbium and aqua ammonia, of each 1 oz. ; red precipitate i/o 
oz., corrosive sublimate 1-4 oz., fresh butter l^/o lbs. Pulverize 
all and put into the butter; simmer slowly over coals, not 
scorching or burning, and pour off free of sediment. For ring- 
bones cut off the hair and rub the ointment Avell into the lumps 
once irr 48 hrs. For spavins once a day for 3 days. Wash well 
previous to each application with suds, rubbing over the place 
with a smooth stick, to squeeze out a thick, yellow matter. This 
has removed very large ring bones. 

No. 2 — Bone Spavins — $300 Recipe — Corrosive sublimate, 
quicksilver and iodine, of each 1 oz. Rub the quicksilver and 
iodine together; then add the sublimate, and lastly, II/2 lbs. 
of lard, mixing thoroughly. Shave off hair the size of bone 
enlargement ; grease all round it, but not where the hair 
is shaved off, this prevents the action of the medicine, ex- 
cept on the spavin. Then run in as much of the paste as 
will lie on a copper cent, each morning, for three or four 
mornings. In from seven to eight days the whole spavin will 
come out ; then wash Avith suds for an hour or so, to remove 



72 THEREFLECTOR 

the poisonous effects of the paste; afterwards heal up the 
sore with any good salve or liniment given for ring-bone. 

No. 3 — Pulverize cantharides, oils of spike, origanum, 
amber, cedar, Barbardoes tar, and British oil, of each 2 ozs. ; 
oil of wormwood, 1 oz. ; spirits of turpentine, 4 ozs. ; common 
potash, 1/2 02. ; nitric acid, 6 ozs. ; sulphuric acid, 4 ozs. ; lard, 
3 lbs. Melt the lard and add slowly the acids; stir well and 
add the other articles, stirring till cold; clip off the hair and 
apply by rubbing and heating in. In about three days, or 
when it is done running, wash off with soap suds and apply 
again. In old cases, two or three applications have cured. 

Occult Spavin, Bog Spavin, and Blood Spavin are only 
modifications of bone spavin, as to location. Treatment the 
same. 

Splint — This is a small, bony enlargement and generally 
situated on the inside of the fore-leg about three or four 
inches below the knee joint and frequently occurs in young 
horses, when they are worked too hard. 

The treatment should be the same as for bone spavin. 

Strain — By this is meant the sudden shifting of a joint 
farther than is natural, but not so as to produce dislocation. 
Every joint is liable to sprain by the horse falling, slipping 
or being overworked. These cases cause a great deai of 
trouble, oftentimes producing lameness, pain, swelling, ten- 
derness and an unusual amount of heat in the part. 

Treatment — Rest, and if the part is found hot, apply cold 
water cloths, changing frequently and continuing two or three 
days. If there is considerable fever, it might be well to give 
fifteen drops of aconite three times a day for two or three 

days. Allow rest for two or three weeks. 

Sprung Knee — There is some difference of opinion in 
regard to the cause of this defect. Investigations show a per- 
manent shortening of the ligaments at the hinder part of the 
knee. 

Treatment — The best treatment that can be adopted is 

to have the place where the horse stands higher under the 
hind feet, by placing a good quantity of bedding for him 
to stand on back of the fore feet; then have the horse shod 
with a high heel or with shoes gradually thicker from toe to 



THEREFLECTOR 73 

heel. Any of the liniments such as given for pink-eye can 
be used to advantage. 

Staggers — There are two varieties of this disease known 
under this name by which horses are affected, viz : Stomach 
staggers and grass or sleepy staggers. The first, which gen- 
erally kills the horse in twelve to fifteen hours after the 
attack is generally the result of an overladened stomach and 
improper food. The horse has, perhaps, partaken greedily of 
food, after too long a fast, which it was unaccustomed to, 
such as grass or clover. These undergo decomposition within 
the stomach and intestines and give rise to such an evolution 
of gas as either to set up inflammation of the stomach and 
intestines or to lead to their rupture in which latter case there 
is, of course, fatality. The symptoms are a quick and feeble 
pulse, attempts at vomiting, a staggering gait and frequently 
sits on its haunches like a dog. Sleepy staggers, which is a 
more chronic manifestation of the disease, is most common 
during the summer and autumn months and generally occurs 
among horses fed on tough and indigestible food. There is 
another form of this disease called "Mad Staggers." It origi- 
nates, however, in causes wholly dissimilar from those just 
stated, being the result of phrenitis or inflammation of the 
brain. The animal is frequently yery furious and excited 
and seems wholly unable to control itself, throwing itself mad- 
ly about and attempting to run down anybody who comes in 
its way; it is also frequently unable to keep on its legs and 
when it falls, plunges and struggles violently. 

Treatment — A brisk cathartic ; one-half pound of Epsom 
salts in a pint of warm water, every one or two hours ; also 
the injection every hour of clysters, consisting of salt, soap 
or tobacco smoke, the abdomen being at the same time dili- 
gently rubbed and fomented with water nearly boiling. Give 
twice a week a mess composed of bran, 1 gal. ; sulphur, 1 
tablespoonful ; saltpeter, 1 teaspoonful ; boiling sassafras tea, 
1 quart; assafoetida, 1 1-8 oz. ; mix, and after it is eaten, allow 
no cold water for drinking for twelve or fifteen hours. For 
''Mad Staggers" the treatment mostly recommended is prompt 
and copious bleeding, combined with active purging and ene- 
mas and cold applications to the head. Croton oil is recom- 
mended. Make a cross slit on forehead just below the ears 



74 THEREFLECTOR 

and apply it in the incision; the yellow water will soon be 
seen as it is drawn from the brain. Smoking with tar, feathers 
and pepper gives relief. 

Stifle-joint — It occurs occasionally in colts kept on un- 
even ground, which induces a dislocation of the stifle, or 
patella, which slips off from the rounded heads of the bones, 
when the horse steps. It sometimes occurs in horses which are 
kept on bad food, or those which are constitutionally weak. 

Syraptoms — The horse stops suddently and extends one 
of the hind legs backward. The pastern is fixed and the 
head raised; there is a great swelling upon the outer side of 
the pastern or stifle joint, with great pain. 

Treatment — Any flurry may restore the bone to its proper 
place, in colts or horses, but for cases which do not become 
replaced, get into a shed and fix a rope to the pastern and 
throw the other end over a beam. Then while one person 
pulls the leg upward and forward another should stand by 
the quarters and push the dislocated patella inward with both 
hands. Feed well and give the horse five or six weeks' rest. 
Any good liniment may be used. 

Sweeney — A wasting away of the muscles of the shoul- 
ders and is thought to be caused by some disease of the foot 
or leg. 

Treatment — Treat any disease found in foot or leg as 
previously directed. Apply to the shoulders soft soap, with 
a little salt added, four or five times a week; rub in well. 

Windfalls — Soft swellings or enlargements just above the 
fetlock joint, which are caused by over-exertion or sprain. 
They resemble blood spavin and may be treated with the 
same way. 

Worms — There are several kinds of worms which infest 
the horse, some of which produce a vast amount of mischief.' 

Tenia (Tape Worm). — These trouble the young mostly 
and are usually caused by starving the mare when with foal 
and by breeding from old animals. The dam and sire should 
be in perfect health; if a valuable colt is desired. Gentle 
Avork is better for the mare than to be idle. 

Symptons — When tape-worm is present, there is cheeked 
development, large head, long legs, ravenous appetite, shaggy 
hair, thin body, fetid breath. The colt picks and bites its own 
hair, rubs its nose against a wall or strains it violently up- 
ward. 



THEREFLECTOR 75 

Treatment — Give spirits of turpentine. For a colt three 
months old, one-fourth to one-half ounce; six months, one- 
half to one ounce ; one year, one to one and a half ounces ; two 
years one and a half to two ounces; three years, three to four 
ounces; also one pound of quassia chips, pour three quarts of 
boiling Avater on them ; then mix a proportional dose of the 
quassia infusion with the turpentine and stir in j^olk of one 
or more eggs to cause it to blend together, and 20 grains of 
camphor gum and give early of a morning. Feed well aft- 
erwards and give every morning until the coat is glossy ; muri- 
ated tincture of iron from 1 dram to 10 drams, according to 
age, and also Fowler's solution of arsenic, from one-fourth 
to three drahms. Give condition powders as described else- 
where. 

Lumbrici — Long, round worm. They prey upon the 
weakly whether old or young. 

Treatment — Santonin, 48 grains given in a pint of sweet 
milk on an empty stomach every morning for two or three 
days and followed with about a half teacupful of salts in a 
pint of warm water. 

Pin Worms — This variety of worms inhabit the rectum 
and causes great itching at the root of the tail, which causes 
the horse to rub its hair off against the wall, or fence post. 

Treatment — Strong appie-tree bark ooze injected to about 
one pint will be effective. A dose of salts to follow, would be 
advisable. 

Yellow Waters — This affection is the result of liver dis- 
ease and has derived its name from the characteristic color of 
the membranes of the eyes, nose and mouth, which have pecu- 
liar yellowness which is caused by the liver being diseased, so 
that its natural functions are not properly performed and a 
large amount of bile is thrown back into the blood, instead of 
being carried off in its natural way and only eliminated par- 
tially through the kidneys. It occurs more often in horses 
highly fed and have nothing to do than in others. 

Treatment — Give pulverized ginger, 2 drams; mandrake 
root, 1 dram ; aloes, 4 drams ; mix and give at one dose. Feed 
the horse with soft food and grass to loosen bowels. Repeat 
the above dose as often as is necessary, which in most cases, 
perhaps, would be about every other day. A horse in this con- 
dition would be more useful to be employed at light work, in- 
creasing the service as he becomes more adapted to it 



76 



THE REFLECTOR 



01 






a 02 



^ 



;*! 




rt 




O 


■^ 


d 


o 


o 


73 


03 


<U 


s 


0) 



> 





a 


a-S 


Cj 


o 


rt 




■ *. 


^ 


m ID 


03 


be bO 


bo 


M M 


M 


HW 


W 



-u 

.s a 

Occ 



p^ 



01 

+-> 

h ° 
'a u 

X 



e^ 
O 
X 

X 

o 

to 
O 

o 



03 



02 



N 03 S M 

O s-i S >- 

-73 O rQ 






oj [si -o 



P o 



o 



o o 



;h' bo ;-.' 03 
-a 'Oh, 



iH TfH ,-1 

o o o 



r- \^ w^ 

+J W — -O-a bCo! W 03 
O *-■ N t^ S-c 

'"'S '-' '""^ 00 <^i n. 
O O Q o O o 



02 

. ^ 
02 02* S ''^ 

^H Sh N 

0+-' 

+J +J iJ 

iH M CD T-i^ 



' -d 
I a> 

O 03 

y "3 •- 
B a a 

03 



-S T3 
O) o 

o 

03'^ 

tJJOrrJ 



i^ V 



-rt '2 "^ 
e 5 t* rt 

0) 01 .S d f^ 

> be +J c^ "Tj 

•^ f3 TO 

^ S i 5 - 







O PI 



03 

Gi PI 
QJ O 

CO 
<D 

V xi 






rt TO .rt y) +J ' s =" 



e 1^, -^ 



«5 



e! O M 

P. t< O) 

03 ^ H-; 

O l-f 



PI o 

o> -^ 

>:; xi 

03 (j3 



. s - 

I rt O) 

o "" .2 

S X3 'O 
O Pi . 

a =* >> . 

OS .Si c« -12 

02 01 ^ CS 

■tf p! +J V2 
fl.^ («! cS 
<^0 HO 



C!3 


« 


<i) 


PI 

s 

03 


O 

3 






o 


rt 




!4-l 


TS 


ri 




PI 


cj 




a 








pi 


a) 


o 


a 


^ 

S 


fl 




o 


CO 


HH 



•;3 pi 

bfiO 

P. g 



& -a 

O 01 



t^ O m 

•2 i g 

" 02 _, 
+J -^ 0> 
rt Pi 



O) ■ O 






o o 3^ 

O 03 £ 



re l-i u-i U U 03 .-H 

O <ij p H H O < 



.5 

O 
T3 PI 

O 



01 



o 



vi/ " - 2 0^ 
<J <J <l <1 <J 






PI 



wm 



> % 



ft-d o 



,5^ 






02 01 crt M 



a^-e^^^ 



^-. -1 >-i 03 

^ cj a ^H i> -^ 

-M .ti o 01 "S T- 

r\ r^ rfi ^ & r^ 



B K ^ 02 P»>^ r< O M) "^ 

r-H03o3o3o3o3o3^0^.^G+j 

moojooooooQxjw 



^ 1^ m 
bJD s2 

055^ 



THE REFLECTOR 



77 





T> 






X 








d 




=1 








c^ 












m' 




m 03 








b3 (B 


1—4 


!> "3 




d 




S=£ 


o 


be g 
|1 




.a s 


O 


Ida's . 

So ^ 






^ CO- 


< 


fl fl C ^ 
T3 T3 


CO y 


^ rt 

li 




2 Ml 

1 ^ 






re O lj 


ft o 

a, K* 








DS 


isj tn 


co" 

ft 








«-i . 


.CO O J- ,• 


. O 




co' 




02 K.T bJO S-l 


NrcO -NCOCO^hCO M) Ji 


m f- . 




• CO ■ *- 


6 
o 




Ot«!-,tnoNis]&cN 'a 


N -d CD 




S tH CO bC 




O N 
lA O 




,-1 °^ 




o o o 


Oo O^^OqOOO 


^ o 




o _ 




O +j *J -M 


-^-fjoo-^oo+j-ii-'^-^-ki 


o -ii o 




-M o o o 




-kJ 




+j ^ 




-M ij +j 






'-^I-lr^CO^-^•*^-l>-^r^~-T-^<^^I-^ 


T-l 1-1 iH 




H^cq iH LO 


6 


1 <D 1 1 1 

UN i 

, rt , 1 , 














1 G o 1 

«, "^ ^ ; " 


1 U 1 ri 1 i 1 i i j 1 ' 






I ! o d 


CI 


>2 - ^ 

•n o <^ 1 o 


' ^^ re ' ' III 

! ^^ n ^ C 1 ' ' 1 1 






1 1 13 a> 
' ' O 


1=1 

"S 
<11 


•^ +J .r-, 1 J3 

C O i2 CO 

§ ^ oT S ^ 


'5 ' P< > O 1^ ' <U O 1 


1 U 1 
1 

•i: 0) 1 

(H CM 1 

5 ^ 1 




; ; s CO 

1 CO ti 

e- ft" 

0) 3 tc . 

c "3 jn =« 






o 

^ cT S 


Si 


i3 a "^^- 

CO v^ . G 
03 aj <1> 01 


— 


-M -^ rt a 


03 > .^ 


dJ 


3 M 




t3 ^1 ^< ^ o 


'i^ 7^ ^ P 'i^ r; n T^ oj ^ '-I is 


d 03 -2 

2 "O ^H 


0) 


a a o ii 




u3 O O ^ C 


Vi 0) o3 


CO 


O O C CO 




o fo fc !2; <i 


<b*Qm<<<ir<<Q<ia} 


cccoOHtiHH<|<Jl 


M 


^ ' c ' ' 




1 0) 1 1 1 II 








3 
P 
O 




^ 1 i 
"^^ ' ! 
U 1 It 


2 J s 'i ; - ' " 


CO ' ' 
OJ 1 1 

Us ' 




1 o3 'i 'i 
1 O 1 1 


-a M -; O 

OJ s o S 
to 6X1 t, X :i 

C 03 3 3 a 

J S § ;2; O 


o3ao=", itt^'SS 

t^izlm°'---^3co t- 


■^ -3 +^ 


QJ 


'> e.^ 


S 


+J c o 

OS O fci^ 


"'3 


3X|> 
O D ft 


rt 
^ 




O O . i3 :3 ft 03 o3 


Vi t^ tJ tJ tn' tn' tJ ^ 






c^ O 



O 



>i 



o 


V) 


en 


r^ 




-t-J 




a 


n 


o 




S 




><■ 


« 


VI 



ir. 



m 



<A 



a; O 

> g; 
<U CD 

^ .^ CO 
O ;-i 



78 THEREFLECTOR 

TO MEASURE LIQUIDS. 

A tablespoonful is equal to a half ounce by measure. 

A desertspoonful is equal to 1-4 ounce or two drams. 

A tablespoonful is equal to one dram. 

A teacup is estimated to contain four fluid ounces or a 

gill 

A wine glass, about two fluid ounces. 

The above named household implements vary in size and 
capacity, so that it is usually difficult to measure accurately. 
It would be best to purchase a glass graduate to measure drams 
and ounces. 

Age of Horses, By Teeth — A horse has 40 teeth, 24 double 
teeth, or grinders, 4 tushes, or single file teeth and 12 front 
teeth, called gatherers. As a general thing, mares have no 
tushes. Eight to fourteen days after birth the first middle nip- 
pers, or milk teeth, two in number, appear; four to six weeks 
afterAvards the next pair, and finally, after six or eight months, 
the last. All these milk teeth have a well defined body and 
neck, and slender fang and on their front surface grooves or 
furrows, which disappear from the middle nippers at the end of 
one year. Between 2 and 3 years old, the colt sheds his four 
middle teeth, 2 above and 2 below. After 3 years old, 2 other 
teeth are shed, one on each side of those formally shed. He 
now has 8 colt's teeth and 8 horse's teeth. When 4 years old 
he cuts 4 new teeth. At 5 years of age the horse sheds his re- 
maining colt's teeth, 4 in number, when his tushes appear. At 
6 years of age his tushes are up, appearing white, small and 
sharp, while a small circle of young growing teeth are ob- 
servable. The mouth is now complete. At 8 years of age the 
teeth have filled up, the horse is aged and his mouth is said to 
be full. 

The Eyelid — After a horse is 9 years old a Avrinkle comes 
on the eyelid at the upper corner of the lower lid and every 
year thereafter he has one well defined wrinkle for each year 
over 9. If, for instance, a horse has three of these wrinkles, he 
i.5 12; if 4, he is 13. Add the number of wrinkles to 9 and you 
will invariably .judge correctly the horse's age. 



THEREPLECTOR 79 

VALUABLE RECIPES FOR HORSES. 

While listing the foregoing under the above heading, j^et 
it is not meant for the horse exclusively. They may be used in 
any case where such treatment is desired and are so arranged 
a ; to meet the requirements for ready reference. 

Alterative No. 1 — Nitre, sulphur, black sulphuret of an- 
timony, each equal parts. Mix well together and give a table- 
spoonful every morning. 

No. 2 — Linseed meal, 1 oz. ; aloes, i/2 oz. ; castile soap, Y2 
oz. Mix 

No. 3 — Ginger, 1 dr. ; castile soap, 2 drs. ; pulverized aloes, 
6 drs. ; flaxseed meal, 1 oz. Mix. 

Anodyne^ — Tincture of opium 1 oz., starch gruel 1 quart. 
Mix. 

No. 2 — Sweet spirits of nitre, 1 oz. ; laudanum, 1 oz. ; es- 
sence of peppermint, 1-4 oz. ; water, 1 pint. Mix. 

No. 3 — Laudanum, 1 oz; spirits of camphor, % oz. ; anise^ 
1/2 oz. ; sulphuric ether, 1 oz. ; water, 1 pint. Mix. 

Astring-ent and Cordial No. 1 — Opium, 12 grains; cam- 
plior, V2 dram; catechu, 1 dr. Mix. 

No. 2 — Opium, 10 grs. ; camphor, 1 dr. ; ginger, 2 drs. ; cas- 
tile soap, 2 drs. ; anise, 3 drs., liquorice, 2 drs. Mix. 

No. 3 — Anise (pulverized), i/o oz. ; ginger, 1 dr.; gentian, 
1 dram ; fenugreek, 2 drs. Mix. 

No. 4 — Caraway and ginger, each 2 drs; anise, gentian,, 
fenugreek, each 1 oz. Mix. 

No. 5 — Camphor. 1 dr. ; anise, 3 drs. ; laudanum, 1 oz ; pul- 
verized extract of liquorice, 3 drs. ; flaxseed meal 1 oz. Mix. 

Bruises, Cuts, Etc. — Tincture arnica, 1 oz. ; oil of sassafras, 
I/O oz. ; laudanum, 1 oz. Mix. Shake before using. Bandage 
lightly, and keep wet with the mixture. 

Colic — No. 1 — Gum myrrh, gum camphor, gum guaiac 
(pulverized) of each 1 oz. ; cayenne, powdered sassafras bark, 
spirits of turpentine of each 1 oz. ; oil of origanum, 1-4 oz. ; oil 
of hemlock, I/2 oz. ; powdered opium, 14 oz. ; pure full strength 
grain alcohol, 2 quarts. Mix all together. Shake two or three 
times a day for eight or ten days, then strain through flannel. 
Dose : From one to three tablespoonfuls. according to the 
severity of the case. Give in pint of sweet milk. This is re- 



80 THEREFLECTOR 

puted to never fail to give immediate relief when given for 
colic in horses. It is is one of the best pain relievers for family 
use and should be kept as a household remedy. The dose for 
adult would be 5 to 10 drops. 

No. 2 — Sulphuric ether 1^/2 ozs. ; laudanum, 1 oz. ; essence 
of peppermint, 2 ozs. ; water, 16 ozs. Mix and shake well be- 
fore giving. 

No. S — Laudanum, 1 oz ; spirits of turpentine, ly^ ozs. Mix 
and give in a half pint of water. 

Condition Powders — No. 1 — Liquorice, fenugreek, elec- 
ampane of each 4 ozs. ; red puccoon, blue flag, ginger, cayenne, 
of each 1 oz. Mix, and give a tablespoonful two or three times 
a day in bran mash. None better for colds, coughs, distemper, 
epizootic or heaves. It could be made effective by adding one 
ounce each of camphor and lobelia. 

No. 2 — Hard wood ashes, 4 ozs. ; anise, 4 ozs. ; fenugreek, 
4 ozs. ; ginger, 6 ozs. ; gentian, 2 ozs. ; black antimony, 2 ozs. 
Mix. Dose : Teaspoonful. A good appetizer. 

No. 3 — Ginger, black antimony, rosin, saltpetre, sulphur, 
gentian, fenugreek, cream of tartar, of each 2 ozs. ; cayenne 
pepper, 1 oz. Pulverize and mix thoroughly. Dose: A tea- 
spoonful twice a day in soft feed. 

Contracted Hoof — No. 1 — Take equal parts of soft fat, yel- 
low wax, linseed oil, Venice turpentine and Norway tar. First 
melt the wax, then add the others. Mix thoroughly and apply 
at the edge of the hair everj^ day. 

No. 2 — Saltpetre, benzine, of each 1 oz. ; alcohol, 3 ozs. ; 
aqua ammonia, 2 ozs. ; balsam of fir, 8 ozs. Mix. Apply to 
edge of the hair and cover the hoof every day for ten days, 
then twice a week. 

No. 3 — Lard 8 ozs. ; rosin, 4 ozs. ; heat them over a slow 
fire, then remove and add powdered verdigris 1 oz. Stir 
briskly to prevent its running over. When partly cool add 2 
ozs. of the spirits of turpentine. Apply to the hoof one inch 
below the hair. Toughen by washing frequently in brine and 
pour upon the bottoms of the feet and soak a few minutes each 
time. 

Cough — No. 1 — Alcohol, 8 ozs. ; balsam of fir, 2 ozs., and 
add all the tar it will dissolve. Shake well before using. Dose : 
One or two teaspoonfuls two or three times a day. 



THEREFLECTOR 81 

No. 2 — Discard musty hay. Feed laxative food, sprinkle 
with brine all dry hay, fodder, or other provender. Cut into 
small pieces, cedar boughs and mix with the grain, or boil a 
.small quantity of flaxseed and mix it with a mash of scalded 
Iran, adding a little sugar, molasses or honey. Give lukewarm. 
If there should be any appearance of heaves, put a teaspoon- 
ful of pulverized ginger once a day in his provender and allow 
hnn to drink frequently of lime water. 

Cracked Heels — Take 1 1-4 gals, linseed oil; 1 1-4 gals, of 
spirits turpentine, Vo gal. western petroleum; 4 ozs. liquor 
potassa ; sap green Vo oz. Mix all together and it is ready for 
use. This has quite a reputation in many places under the 
name of "Gargling Oil." 

Another — Take 8 ozs. of lard, 1 oz. of beeswax, 1 oz of 
rosin ; 1 oz. of alum, tallow and copperas, of each 1 oz., and car- 
bolic acid 1 dr. ^Mix and boil over a slow fire ; skim and add 2 
ozs. of the scrapings of sweet alder. 

Cuts, Wounds and Sores — No. 1 — Carbolic acid, 1 oz. ; soft 
water, 1 quart. 

No. 2 — Laudanum, 2 ozs. ; 1-4 oz. tannin. Mix. 

No. 3 — Tinctuie aloes, 1 oz. ; tincture myrrh, 1/2 oz. ; tinc- 
ture of opium, lo oz., and water 4 ozs. Mix and apply night 
and morning. 

No. 4 — ^Beeswax and lard, of each 4 ozs. ; rosin, 2 ozs. ; car- 
bolic acid, 1-4 oz. Mix the beeswax, lard and rosin all together. 
Melt and add the carbolic acid, stirring until cool. Excellent 
for man or beast. 

Diabetes — Alum, 30 grains; sugar of lead, 10 grains; cate- 
chu, 1 dr. ; tincture of opium, I/2 oz. ; water, 1 pint. Mix. 

Distemper — Wet up bran with rather strong lye. If not 
too strong, the horse will eat it greedily. If they have the dis- 
temper, a free discharge from the nostrils and a consequent 
cure will be the result if continued a few days ; but if only a 
cold, with swelling of the glands, no change will be discovered. 
Or 30 drops of carbolic acid and 2 ozs. of hops with 2 gallons 
of boiling water and having the animal to inhale the steam fif- 
teen or twenty minutes twice or three times a day, then apply 
a strong mustard paste to the throat and place a warm poul- 
tice over the paste. Feed warm mashes and boiled vegetables. 
Keep the stable comfortablly warm and the air pure. Give 



82 THE REFLECTOR 

once a day the following: Two ounces pulverized Peruvian 
bark, copperas and gentian, of each 1 oz. Mix and divide into 
eight powders. One powder a dose. 

Diuretics — No. 1 — Grind and mix together I/2 lb. hops and 
3 drs. of gum camphor. Make into three pills. Give one every 
day, with drench made of a small spoonful of saltpetre and 2 
ozs. of water. This will cure as a general thing. 

No. 2 — Balsam copaiba, 2 ozs. ; sweet spirits of nitre, 3 ozs. ; 
spirits of turpentine, 2 ozs. ; tincture of camphor and the oil of 
juniper of each 2 ozs. Mix. Shake well before using. Dose for 
adult horse: Two tablespoonfuls in a pint of sweet milk, re- 
peat every 4 to 6 hours if necessary. A reliable preparation 
for kidney difficulties. 

No. 3 — Fenugreek and saltpetre of each 3 drs. ; rosin, 1 
drms. ; castile soap, 2 drs. ; flaxseed meal 1 oz. Mix and form 
into a ball. 

No. 4 — Saltpetre and rosin of each, 2 drs. ; oil of juniper 
Y2 tlr. ; camphor gum, 14 dr. ; castile soap, 1 oz. ; flaxseed meal, 
1 oz. Mix and form into one ball. 

Eye Water — No. 1 — Pure saltpetre and white vitriol of 
each 1 scruple ; pure soft water, 8 ounces. Mix. This should 
be applied to the inflamed lids three or four times a day, and 
if the inflammation does not subside in one or two days it may 
be injected directly into the eye. This is an excellent eye 
water for man as well as beast. Reduced one-half and dropped 
directly into the eye, which will cause the eye to smart con- 
siderably for about five or ten minutes and then bathing the 
eye with cold water, repeating three or four times a day, gives 
the very best satisfaction. It will often be effective to just 
close the eye and bathe the outside freely. 

No. 2 — Sugar of lead, 1 dr. ; laudanum. 2 drs. ; soft water, 
1 pint. Mix and wash the eye two or three times a day. 

Farcy — Saltpetre, 4 ozs. ; elecampane, 2 ozs. ; black anti- 
mony, 2 ozs.; sulphite of soda. 1 oz. Dose: One teaspoonful 
once or twice a day. 

Farcy Glanders — Iodide of potassium. 1 1-4 drs. ; copperas, 
l/v dr. ; ginger, 1 dr. ; gentian, 2 drs. ; powdered gum arable and 
syrup to form a ball. 

No. 2 — Sodium sulphite, V2 oz. ; pulverized Spanish flies, 5 
grains. Mix and give at night for several weeks in cut feed. 



THEREFLECTOR 83 

Follow next morning and noon with gentian, 3 drs. ; blue vit- 
riol, 2 drs. Thoroughly j^ulverized and continue treatment for 
several weeks. This is the best treatment known at this time 
for this disease. 

Flesh Worms — Equal parts of peti oleum, olive oil and ear- 
bornate of ammonia. jNIix. 

Fever — Tincture of aconite, 10 drops ; tartar emetic, 1-i 
dr. ; saltpetre, 1 dr. ; ginger, 2 drs. ; linseed meal, 1 oz. Mix and 
form into a ball. Repeat three or four times a day if necessa*ry. 

Founder — Three pints of good apple vinegai ; V^ dram 
cayenne pepper and fifteen drops of aconite. Mix and boil 
down to one quart. When cool give it as a drench. Blanket 
the horse well. After he has perspired for an hour or more 
give one quart of raw linseed oil. This treatment will be found 
good for horses foundered b}^ eating too much grain. 

Grease Heel — Chloride of zinc, IV2 drams; water, 10 ozs \ 
glycerine, 8 ozs. Mix. If there is much discharge, apply a 
poultice for several hours, followed by application of the above, 
after cleansing well with soft water and castile soap. The fol- 
lowing powders should be given at the same time in the feed, 
every night, for a week or two : Bicarbonate of soda, 1 oz. ; 
arsenic, 1 dr. ; iodide of iron, % oz. ; fenugreek and ginger of 
each, 2 ozs. ; elecampane, 1 oz. Mix thoroughly and divide 
into 12 powders. 

Healing Mixture — No. 1 — Cosmoline, 5 ozs. ; carbolic acid, 
1 dr. Mix. This is one of the very best mixtures for any sore, 
especially for such cases as are inclined not to heal. 

No. 2 — Carbolic acid. 1 oz. ; soft water, 2 pints. 

No. 3 — White vitriol, 1 oz. ; soft water, 2 pints. 

No. 4 — Pulverized camphor, 1 dr. ; prepared chalk, 6 drs. ; 
burnt alum, 4 drs. Mix and sprinkle over the sore. 

No. 5 — Tincture of opium, 1 oz. ; tannin, 1 dr. Mix and 
shake well before using. Excellent for galls of collar, saddle 
or in fact for any purpose requiring a healing astringent. 

Heaves — No. 1 — One teaspoonful of lobelia, given in the 
feed once a day for a week, and then twice or three times a 
week will stop them for a time. 

No. 2 — Balsam copaiba, balsam of fir of each, 1 oz. ; spirits 
of turpentine, 2 ozs. ; apple vinegar, 16 ozs. Mix and give a 
teaspoonful once a day. 



84 THE. REFLECTOR 

No. 3 — Saltpetre, 1 oz. ; indigo, I/2 oz. ; rain water, 2 quarts. 

No. 4 — Liquorice, elecampane, Indian turnip, fenugreek 
skunk cabbage, lobelia, cayenne and ginger, equal parts of each. 
Mix and give a teaspoonful once or twice a day. If the horse 
refuses to eat it in his feed, make into a ball and give. 

Horse Liniments — No. 1 — Oils of origanum, spike, hem- 
lock, wormw^ood, aqua ammonia, gum camphor, of each 2 ozs. ; 
olive oil, 4 ozs. ; alcohol, 1 quart. Mix. Excellent for man or 
beast. 

No. 2 — Oil origanum, oil amber, sweet oil, of each 1 oz., 
oil spike, aqua ammonia and turpentine, of each 2 ozs. Mix. 

No. 3 — Linseed oil and turpentine of each, 8 ozs. ; oil origa- 
num, 4 ozs. Mix well. This is excellent for sprains and bruises. 
A good all round liniment. 

No. 4 — 'Oil of origanum, 6 ozs. ; alcohol, 6 ozs. ; spirits of 
turpentine, 1 oz. ; gum camphor, 1 oz. Shake well before using. 
Equal to the celebrated "Wizzard Oil." 

No. 5 — Sulphuric ether, 4 ozs. ; hartshorn, 4 ozs. ; oil of 
origanum, 4 ozs. ; sweet oil, 4 ozs. ; alcohol, 4 ozs. Shake well 
before using. For sprains, apply by rubbing and cover with a 
tight flannel bandage. F'or headache, rub a little on the tem- 
ples and apply a bandage wet with the liniment to the fore- 
head. 

No. 6 — One-half gallon of best apple vinegar; % lb. pul- 
verized saltpetre. Mix and set in a cool place till dissolved. 
Invaluable for old sprains and bruises. 

No. 7 — Green copperas, 1 oz. ; white vitriol and common 
salt of each, 2 ozs. ; linseed oil, 2 ozs. ; molasses, 8 ozs. Boil over 
a slow fire for fifteen minutes in a pint of urine. When almost 
cold add 1 oz. of the oil of vitriol and 4 ozs. of the spirits of tur- 
pentine. Apply with a feather. A very powerful liniment. 

Gravel — Steep Vo lb. of hops in a quart of water and give 
as hot as the horse can stand. 

Hide Bound — To recruit a hide bound horse give the fol- 
lowing : Saltpetre, 4 ozs. ; crude antimony, 1 oz. ; thoroughly 
pulverized together and add sulphur, 3 ozs. Dose : A table- 
spoonful in bran mash daily. 

Itch — To cure a horse affected with the itch, first reduce 
his daily allowance of food, putting him on a low diet and then 



THEREFLECTOR 85 

give him a teaspoonful of a mixture of equal parts of sulphur 
and antimony and at the end of a week or 10 days the sores 
will have disappeared and the horse will be covered with a fine 
coat of new hair. 

Mange- — Boil 2 ozs. of tobacco in 1 quart of water; strain; 
add sulphur and soft soap of each 2 ozs. 

No. 2 — Oil of tar, 1 oz. ; lac sulphur, ly?, ozs. ; whale oil, 2 
ozs. Mix. Rub a little on the skin wherever the disease ap- 
pears and continue daily for a week and then wash off with 
castile soap and w^arm water. 

Nasal Gleet — No. 1 — Copperas, 2 ozs. ; pulverized gentian, 

3 ozs. ; elecampane, 1 oz. ; linseed meal, 3 ozs. Mix and give 
from one-half to a tablespoonful twice a day. 

Na. 2 — Aloes, 6 ozs. ; pulverized nux vomica, 3 drs. ; flax- 
seed meal, 4 ozs. ; make into eight powders and give one or two 
each day. 

No. 3 — Make a slow fire of old shoes, rags, etc. When fire 
burns sufficient, smother so as to make a great smoke and 
steam, then set a barrel without heads over the fire and hold the 
horse 's head down in the barrel and smoke him well. This will 
soon produce a copious running at the nose and he will be so 
well pleased that he will voluntarily hold his head in the 
smoke. Continue this half hour or more daily, meanwhile give 
him potatoes and warm bran mash and gentle physic, if there 
be much costiveness which the laxative food will not move. If 
he has fever, treat him for it. 

This is an excellent method to treat all head troubles like 
distemper, mad staggers, etc. 

Ointment for Horses — Beeswax, 2 ozs. ; rosin, 3 ozs. ; lard, 

4 ozs. ; carbolic acid, 1 dr. ; honey, Yz oz. Melt all together 
and bring slowly to a boil, then remove from the fire and add 
slowly spirits of turpentine 8 ozs. ; stirring all the time until 
cool. Use with good success for galls, cracked heels, flesh 
wounds or bruises. 

Poll Evil and Fistula— Copperas and white vitriol of each 
1 dr. ; blue vitriol and common salt of each 2 drs. Mix and 
powder fine. Fill a goose quill with the powder and push it 
to the bottom of the pipe, having a stick in the top of the quill, 
so that the powder can be pushed out of the quill, leaving it at 



86 THE-, REFLECTOR 

the bottom of the pipe. Repeat again in about four days and 
in two or three days from that time the pipe can be removed 
very easily. 

No. 2 — -Common potash, 1 lb. ; dissolve in i^ pint of water ; 
add 1/2 oz. belladonna extract and 1 oz. gum arable dissolved 
in a little water. Work all into a paste with wheat flour and 
bottle up tight. Directions : Wash the sores well with castile 
soap suds, then appl}'^ tallow all around them. Next press the 
above paste to the bottom of all the orifices ; repeat every two 
days till the callous fibrous base around the poll evil or fis- 
tula is completely distroyed. Put a piece of oil cloth over the 
sores and afterwards heal with any simple ointment. 

No. 3 — Take a small piece of lunar caustic, place in the 
pipe, after being cleansed with soap suds, then fill the hole 
with sweet oil. 

Quarter Crack — The best way to cure quarter crack is to 
open the heel on that side between bar and frog, cutting down, 
pretty well (not sufficient to cause bleeding) until the quarter 
will give freely; then put on a shoe that will expand the heel. 
It is also necessary in this case that the inner heel should be 
opened or spread, as the heel is simply too small for the foot ; 
if this is properly done, the point is directly reached. Some 
recommend in addition to this, burning with a hot iron a crease 
across at the upper edge of the hoof. If this should be done 
properly, the hoof will not split any more. The hoof may now 
be more rapidly grown if desired. Opening the foot and the 
shoe is the point of success. 

Quittor — Corrosive sublimate, 1/4 oz. ; muriatic acid, 20 
drops; soft water, 2 ozs. Mix the acid and water, shake well, 
then add the corrosive sublimate. Inject a little with a glass 
syringe once or twice, being careful to inject to the bottom. 
Warm poultice, used for several days, usually act well. 

Saddle and Harness Galls — White lead and linseed oil. 
Mix as for paint, is unrivalled for healing saddle, harness, or 
collar galls and bruises. Try it, applying with a brush. It 
soon forms an air-tight coating and soothes the pain, power- 
fully assisting nature. 

No. 2 — Laudanum, 2 ozs. ; tannin, 2 drs. Mix and apply 
twice a day. 



THEREPLECTOR 87 

Scratches and Grease Heel — Balsam of fir, 4 ozs. ; lard, 4 
ozs. Stir with a gentle heat till thoroughly mixed. Wash the 
sores well with castile soap and apply. 

No. 2 — Sugar of lead, 2 ozs. ; borax, 1 oz. ; sweet oil, 6 ozs. 
Mix and apply twice daily, after washing with castile soap and 
drying. 

No. 3 — Take i/o oz. of pulverized verdigris; rum or proof 
spirits, 16 ozs. Mix and apply once or twice a day. This acts 
nicely for grease heel or mud fever. 

No. 4 — ^Oxide of zinc, 1 dr. ; lard, 1 oz. ; pulverized gum 
benzoin, 10 grains; spirits of camphor, 1 dr. Mix thoroughly 
and apply twice a week. Do not wash after first application. 

Sore Lips — The lips become sore frequently at the angles 
of the mouth from bruising with a bit. They can be cured by 
applying the following mixture : Tincture of myrrh, 2 ozs. ; 
tincture of aloes, 1 oz. ; tincture of opium, 14 oz. Mix and ap- 
ply three or four times a day. 

Sore Mouth — Borax, 1 oz. ; tannin, 14 oz. ; glycerine, 8 
ozs. Mix and apply two or three times a day. 

Spavin and Splint — Oil of origanum, 6 ozs. ; gum cam- 
phor, 2 ozs. ; mercurial ointment, 2 ozs. ; iodine ointment, 1 oz. 
Melt by putting all into a wide-mouthed bottle and setting in ;i 
kettle of hot water. Apply it to bone spavin or splints twice 
daily, and a cure is almost certain. 

Sprains and Sweeny — Alcohol and spirits of turpentine ol 
each 8 ozs. ; camphor gum, pulverized cantharides and capsi- 
cum of each 1 oz. ; oil of spike, 3 ozs. Mix and apply, using a 
hot iron and a cure will follow. 

Scours and Pin Worms — White ash bark burnt into ashes 
and made into rather strong lye ; then mix Vo pint of it with 1 
pint of warm water and give all tw^o or three times a day. This 
will carry off the worms, which are the cause, in most instances, 
of scours and looseness. 

No. 2 — Tormentil root, pulverized. Dose for a horse or 
cow, 1 to 11/2 oz. It may be stirred into 1 pint of milk, then 
given from three to six times a day until cured. 

Thrush — Blue vitriol and copperas of each, 1 oz. ; burnt 
alum, 2 ozs.; white vitriol, Yi oz. Mix, apply after cleansing. 
And fill all cavities with cotton to keep out the dirt. 



88 THEREFLECTOR 

Tonic. — Ginger, 2 drs. ; gentian, 1 dr. ; Peruvian bark, ^/o 
oz. ; fenugreek, 1/4 oz. Make into a ball and give once or twice 
a day. 

To Kill Lice on Cattle — Take one ounce of carbolic acid, 
one quart of soft soap, one and one-half gallons of water. Mix 
and apply. 

Unhealthy Ulcers — Nitric acid, 1 oz. ; blue vitriol, 3 ozs. ; 
soft water, 15 ozs. Bathe parts once or twice a day. 

Water Farcy — No. 1 — Fenugreek, copperas, saltpetre, of 
each, 2 ozs. ; ginger, 1 oz. ; gentian, 1 oz. ; anise, V2 oz. Mix and 
divide into eight powders. Give one powder two or three times 
a day. 

No. 2 — Anise, gentian, blue vitriol, of each 1 oz. ; elecam- 
pane, saltpetre and flaxseed meal of each 2 ozs. Mix and di- 
vide into eight powders. Dose : One or two powders a day. 
Moderate exercise and daily rubbing of the limbs are useful. 

Worms — Fenugreek, linseed meal of each 1 oz. ; tartar 
emetic, 1/2 dr. ; calomel, 1 dr. Mix and give in feed at night and 
repeat the dose for two or three days and follow with 1% 
pints of raw linseed oil on the morning following last dose. 

Pulse — The average number of beats per minute are from 
35 to 40. 

CATTLE. 

Weight By Measure — Take the measure of girth close be- 
hind the shoulder, then the length from the fore part of the 
shoulder-blade along the back to the bone at the tail, which is 
in a vertical line with the buttock both in feet. Multiply the 
square of the girth expressed in feet, by ten times the length 
and divide the product by 3 ; the quotient is the weight, ap- 
proximately, of the fore quarters, in avoidupois pound. It is 
io be observed, however, that in very fat cattle the fore quart- 
ers will be about one-twentieth more, while in those in a very 
lean state they will be one-twentieth less than the weight ob- 
tained by the rule. 

Age — ^The horn is considered as an index to the age of the 
brute, but it is not absolutely correct in every instance. Only 
an approximate age may be observed by the wrinkles developed 
after two years. The first ridge or circle makes its appearance 
at three years old and one circle for each year thereafter. The 



THEREFLECTOR 89 

correct number of years, so far as this rule holds good, can be 
obtained by adding two to the number of ridges. The age of a 
bull should be computed by adding five to the number of 
circles as they do not appear until about that age. Dishonest 
persons frequently file the horns smooth for commercial rea- 
sons. 

The Flow of Milk — The quantity and quality of milk 
which a cow gives is the greatest consideration of all dairymen. 
The well-proportioned cow with good milking qualities are the 
ones mostly sought by purchasers. The cow, like other ani- 
mals, must have the attention necessary to develop their full 
milk cajjacity. The following method will give good results : 
Give the cow milk-Avarm water, slightly salted, in which have 
been stirred 1 quart of bran to 2 gallons of water three times a 
day. The daily use of this nlethod is reputed to increase the 
flow of milk 25 per cent. The animal will become so much 
attached to this diet that she will refuse to drink clear water 
unless very thirsty, but will drink this almost any time and 
low for more. The amount necessary for one drink is an ordi- 
nary bucketful, morning, noon and night. Avoid feeding the 
cow slop, if good milk is desired. Sweet potatoes are an excel- 
lent food. 

Medicated Food — The following is for 1 ton : Take of corn 
meal 900 lbs. ; finely ground locus beans, 600 lbs. ; best linseed 
cake, 300 lbs. ; pulverized turmeric and sulphur of each 40 lbs. ; 
saltpetre, 20 lbs. ; licorice, 27 lbs. ; ginger, 3 lbs. ; anise seed, 4 
lbs. ; coriander and gentian of each, 10 lbs. ; cream of tartar. 2 
lbs. ; carbonate of soda and levigated antimony of each, 6 lbs. ; 
common salt, 30 lbs. ; Peruvian bark, 4 lbs. ; fenugreek, 22 lbs. 
Mix thoroughly. Use as directed. This is the equal of any if 
not the best. 

Wheat Straw Hay— Take 3 gallons of unground flaxseed 
and pour on ten gallons of boiling water. Let stand till cold, 
then empty the whole into a barrel containing 44 gallons of cold 
water. Let it remain for forty-eight hours. At the end of that 
time it will be reduced into a thin jelly, like arrowroot. Spread 
out one-half ton of straw and sprinkle it over regularly with 
the w^hole liquid from the barrel. The stock will eat it up as 



90 THE, REFLECTOR 

clean and keep as fat on it, quantity for quantity, as they would 
do on any hay. 

Feeverish and Swelled Bags — Gum camphor i/o oz. ; sweet 
oil, 2 ozs. ; pulverize the gum camphor and dissolve over a slow 
fire. Apply once or twice a day. 

To Churn All the Milk Into Butter — Pulverized alum, 4 
ozes. ; powdered gum arable, i/2 oz. ; pepsin, 50 grains. Place 
in a well-corked bottle for use as desired. A teaspoonful of this 
mixture added to one pint of new milk will, upon churning, 
make one pound of butter. Many persons have paid $5 for this 
secret. 

Butter Coloring — The proper coloring for butter or cheese, 
or at least should be, is Spanish annatto; but as soon as color- 
ing became general in the country, a color of an adulterated 
kind was placed upon the market and for sale in almost every 
shop. From 1 to 3 grains per pound will generally be suf- 
ficient for cheese. If a considerable part of the cream of 
night's milk be taken for butter, more coloring will be re- 
quired. The manner of using annatto is to tie up in a linen 
rag the 'quantity deemed sufficient and prrt it into i/^ pint of 
warm water over night. This infusion, for cheese coloring, is 
put into the tub of milk in the morning with the rennet in- 
fusion ; dipping the rag into the milk and rubbing it against the 
palm of the hand as long as any coloring runs out. The yolk 
of egg is frequently used for butter coloring. 

To Keep Milk Sweet and Sweeten Sour Milk — Put into the 
milk a small quantity of carbonate of magnesia. 

Milk Test — A cheap lactometer may be made by getting a 
glass bulb and stem, both hollow, and loading the bulb with 
shot until the instrument will float upright in pure milk. Mark 
on the stem the point to which it sinks — the surface point. Re- 
move it from the milk and float it in pure water, marking the 
surface point as before, which will be considerably higher on 
the stem than the other mark. Now take a slip of paper capa- 
ble of being rolled lengthwise and insert it in the stem of the 
instrument so that the figures on it will be visable through the 
glass. Lay off on this in the direction of its length a space 
equal to the distance between the two surface points, number- 
ing the one and the other 100. Sub-divide this space into 10 



THEREFLECTOR 91 

or 20 proportional spaces, correspondingly numbered ; roll the 
slip and insert it in the stem until the is at the surface point 
of the milk, the 100 at the point of the water. Float it in tlio 
milk can every morning and the depth to which it sinks M'ill 
register the percentage of dishonest water, if any, the milk 
contains. 

Milk Preservative — Place the milk in a bottle and place 
the bottle in a pot of water over a slow fire. Let the bottle re- 
main for half an hour after the water has begun to boil and 
then cork tightly. 

Deodorized Milk — Sometimes in the spring when cows are 
fed upon rutabagas the milk has such a disagreeable taste and 
odor as to be unfit for butter-making. This can be obviated 
by putting a pinch of saltpetre, finely pulverized, into every 
gallon of cream. 

THE HOG. 

We have no exact knowledge of the period of creation in 
which this animal had an existence. It appears that the Jews 
were required, by Moses, to refrain from eating the flesh of the 
swine. We next hear of this animal about the time a certain 
woman was seen by the Savior. It will be seen by such his- 
torical sketches that the hog, like the chameleon, is susceptible 
to change of environment. He can become as vicious as a tiger 
or as gentle as a lamb. He is omnivorous and will feed upon a 
carcass or graze on the grass. He stands as an animal of a 
peculiar phenomenon. He is the embodiment of almost every 
character and holds a prominent place on the market. A cer- 
tain writer states that animals correspond to the lives and char- 
acter of the people of a period of time in which they lived. He 
gives as a reason for the termination of the lives of pre-his- 
toric animals of which geology has shown to have existed, that 
the evil they represented became extinct. If such philosopical 
reasoning should be the criterion by which we are to judge, we 
would infer that the present age is a fair representation of the 
characteristics of the hog. Since he holds such a prominent 
place in our domestic and commercial life it is necessary to 
notice some of his ailments. There are very few diseases 
among animals that the hog is sub.i'ect to. He is liable to.be 
afflicted with mange, measles or other diseases of less impor- 



92 THEREFLECTOR 

tance. The disease that plays the greatest havoc among hogs 
is cholera. 



HOG CHOLERA. 

Symptoms — Lassitude, sluggish, moves slowly, head 
drooped, shaggy and reddish looking hair. No appetite. The 
symptoms are indicative of either constipated or loose condi- 
tion of the bowels. 

Cause — This disease is generally caused by contagion, lo- 
cality, or a lack of proper hygienic surroundings; rooting in a 
soft loam saturated with decayed vegitable matter, inhaling 
the fumes and gasses which poison the system. 

Treatment — Since the cause of any disease must be known 
as a prerequisite to a rational treatment, it is. then necessary to 
remove and prohibit the cause. Potash, having a destructive 
influence on the germ, is to be used as the most important 
remedy at hand. Whether the hogs are to be kept in the pen or 
to run at large, the feeding place should have from one to sev- 
eral loads of dry, clean sand thrown on the ground on which 
the hogs are fed, to act as a filter of the noxious gasses. To 
reinforce this and destroy the development of further conta- 
gion, sprinkle heavily with slacked lime. Remove all sick to a 
separate place and follow the above with hot milk and spirits 
of camphor. Take a quart bottle (long neck), put in one pint 
of fresh sweet milk, set in a kettle of water, in which is placed 
a block of wood, to prevent the bottom from coming in contact 
with the kettle. The water should be a little above the milk 
and when heated to near boiling point should be removed, let 
cool and when milk-warm put in from a half to one teaspoonful 
of spirits of camphor; drench and repeat every two or four 
hours. The lime should be in proportion to sand according to 
strength ; old slacked lime or lime once used should be a barrel 
to a load of sand. Alrsenic is a good remedy; given in slop 
about the 1/4 of a teaspoonful to each hog, once or twice a da»y. 
Plenty of salt and sloping ground are necessary to good, thrifty 
hogs. Water is a good preventive of mange and other skin 
disease, and its effects can be greatly augmented by a free use 
of common wood ashes. 



THEREFLECTOR 93 

POULTRY. 

Poultry raising, like other occupations, require well di- 
vised plans and a well selected brood to succeed. The business 
of a poultry farm includes, as well as other affairs, the raising 
of almost all kinds of domesticated fowls. The following rules, 
given by a large poultry raiser, will be found of value : 

1. "Clean roosts daily; 2, feed at regular hours; 3, make 
new nests every week and burn up the old ones ; 4, pour kero- 
sene over the roosts once a week in summer and once a month 
in winter; whitewash the interior four times a i>'ear and scat- 
ter air-slacked lime over the floor and dropping-boards each 
week ; 5, remove all the fowls that show signs of disease to 
separate quarters and scald out the drinking fountains once a 
month ; 6, fatten, for market purposes, all hens that have past 
their third season and hatch the pullets, for fall laying, during 
the months of March, April and i\Iay ; for broilers, from October 
to March." 

Feeding" — While it is essential to be careful not to over- 
feed, the extreme of underfeeding must be avoided. It isn't the 
gross amount of feed, but the mode in which it is distributed 
that shows to the best advantage. A variety of diet for fowls 
is a very important matter to be remembered, both for economy 
and the best good of the fowls. Iir winter seasons thei.y should 
receive the first feed of warm mashed potatoes and scalded 
meal, seasoned with a little salt and pepper, which helps to 
keep the fowls in a liealthy condition. At iroon and night, 
wheat, oats or other grain may be fed. The chick comes from 
the shell full, having absorbed the yolk just previous to emerg- 
ing from the egg, consequently it should not be fed for 24 hours 
and 36 would cause no inconvenience. 

The second day feed as early as possible. The third day 
is not so urgent; 8 o'clock is sufficient. Give hard boiled eggs, 
whites and yolks, mixed and finely powdered; crumble all the 
egg shells and place wdthin their reach and give as many times 
a day as they will eat it up cleanly. A little green food, such 
as grasses, corn, mustard and cabbage, should be one of the 
X^rincipal features. Cleanliness is an important factor, as there 
is no success in filth. Milk is excellent after they are two 
weeks old. Dampness is fatal to the brood, consequently the 
surroundings of the diinking vessels should be dry, as well as 



94 THE REFLECTOR 

the floor. All food cooked into a pulp and given warm Avill be 
more appetizing than in any other way. Liver given raw is 
not palatable, but if put in boiling water over the stove for ten 
minutes and chopped hot and thrown to the birds in pellets it 
will be greedily devoured. Grain baked in an oven dry and 
given with small bits of fat meat is very good in the winter sea- 
son. If the above diet is properly attended to the birds must 
lay ; if not, watch for rats or egg eating hens in the flock, or a 
need for a padlock on the poultry house door. Young chicks 
are very tender and nuist not get chilled. Should they do so, 
the bow^els becomedoose and shortly die. This bowel trouble is 
often ascribed to the feed, but when the real cause is known it 
comes from being in a brooder with the temperature too low. 
The hen broods at the same temperature that she hatches with. 
If the brooder is rather warm, the little chicks will spread out 
near the outer edge and even put their heads out, but if too 
cold they will all collect in the center of the brooder and pile 
up and become wet from the steam coming off the other chicks. 
As this always occurs at night, the operator is often sadly dis- 
appointed the next morning to see what was a fine brood of 
chicks looking like so many drownded rats and likely half of 
them dead. 

Early Laying — Pullets from 12 to 18 months old should be 
selected, housed in warm quarters early in January and avoid 
moving them about in runs after they are mated. Supply them 
with plenty of litter, such as hay, chaff, leaves, fine cut straw, 
or in fact most anthing that is clean and wholesome. Lay in a 
small load of fine gravel in the fall and place where all the 
fowls can supply themselves with false teeth. 

To Make Hens Lay — Feed each alternate day the follow- 
ing mixture : To three gallons of boiling water add 1/4 oz. of 
common salt, a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper and 4 ozs. of 
lard. Stir the mixture until -the pepper has imparted consider- 
able of its strength to the water. Then, while yet boiling, stir 
in meal made of oats and corn, equal parts, until a soft mash 
is found. Before feeding, taste to. see that there is neither an 
overdose of salt or pepper. In winter, on the days that the 
above mixture is omitted, give the hens fresh meat, chopped 



THEREFLECTOR 95 

fine, and at all times plenty of pure water, grain, gravel and 
lime. 

Floor Covering — When leaves fall, rake and place 
them under cover. Secure a large pile and use 
them in the poultry house. They aid in retaining warmth 
and as absorbents. The hens will work in them and thus create 
warmth by exercise and keep in a good laying condition. The 
leaves should be kept at a depth of six inches during winter. 
Cut straw is an excellent floor covering. It should be spread 
four inches deep. iMillet seed, wheat or other grain scattered 
thereon will cause the hens to exercise sufficient to keep in a 
healthy condition. It will pay better if the matter of profit 
from the returns is considered to use straw in the poultry houses 
than in the cow stalls. Many cold poultry houses can be ren- 
dered comfortable with straw, cut to three inch lengths, on the 
floor and if the hens are warm and can exercise, the cost will 
be less and the number of eggs greater. 

Cholera — This disease is more to be dreaded than roup, or 
an}' other disease that poultry is subject to, as it is of miasmatic 
origin, epidemic, and very contagious. 

Symptoms — The fowl has a dejected, sleepy and drooping 
appearance and does not plume itself; it is very thirsty, has a 
slow, stalking gait, and gapes often. The comb and wattles 
turn pale and sometimes dark. There is diahhroea, with green- 
ish discharge, or resembling sulphur water, afterwards becom- 
ing thin and frothy. Prostration comes on, the crop fills with 
mucus and wind and the food is not digested ; breathing be- 
comes heavy and fast, the eyes close and in a few hours the fowl 
dies. This destructive disease will play havoc with the flock if 
left to run its course. 

Treatment — Remove all the sick to separate apartments, 
clean out all filth and burn the trash. Use a strong solution of 
carbolic acid and water or kerosene oil. Give to each sick 
chicken 5 grains of powdered nux vomica or about 14 of <'i 
teaspoonful once or twice a day. One dose is generally suf- 
ficient. A teaspoonful worked in meal or bran sufficient for a 
dozen fowls, and fed once a day is a sure cure, and if hawks are 
troublesome, it is a demonstrated fact that but few chickens 
will be caught. 



96 THEREFLECTOR 

Roup — This is an infammation of the mucous membrano 
lining the air-passage, which often makes its appearance into 
the cleft palate, the mouth and the eyes. It is more destructive 
and harder to handle when let run awhile than cholera. Its 
first symptoms are slightly catarrhal, affecting the appetite 
and health of the fowl very little, but in the second stage it be- 
eomes ulcerous or diphtherial roup, and is very closely related 
to malignant diphtheria in the human family. It is caused from 
filth, bad food, cold and wet. The eyes water, the nostrils are 
closed, the breathing becomes deep and difficult together with 
cough and suffocation. 

Treatment — Pen up the fowls in large, warm and dry 
quarters, whitewash pens with carbonized lime, keep out all 
draughts of cold air, feed hot bran, mashed potatoes, and meat 
and medicate the throat, mouth and nostrils with common salt 
as follows : To a 2 gallon bucketful of warm water add a tea- 
cupful of salt, then catching the fowl, examine the throat and 
nostrils, removing all cheesy matter and pressing all mucous 
out of the nostrils, then filling a pint cup for each afflicted 
fowl, hold it by the feet with head down, choke it until the 
mouth is wide open and then insert the head into the solution, 
comb down so that the medicated water may enter the cleft in 
the palate, and go out at each nostril and into the throat. Each 
should be separately treated, not all from the same water, but 
one cup will do for all. Kerosene injected into the nostrils Is 
good and so is comphorated sweet oil or the spirits of turpen- 
tine. It is said that if this fails, the best remedy is the hatchet. 
A great deal of this trouble could be avoided by keeping the 
fowls thoroughly clean. 

Crop-Bound — This complaint occurs frequently with 
fowls in confinement where no range is allowed and in nearly 
every case the real cause is overfeeding of indigestible food. 
In most instances, death is sure to follow unless properly 
treated. The symptoms will manifest themselves in about 24 
hours. It can be relieved by making a slit lengthwise and suf- 
ficiently long to remove all the contents. After this is done, 
thoroughl.y cleanse with warm water, then close with several 
stitches, care being taken not to sew the skin to the sack of the 
crop. Close the crop first, using coarse white linen thread ; let 



THEREFLECTOR .97 

knot come on outside of crop, then take a few stitches in skin. 
Place the fowl in dry, warm quarters, give no water for 24 
hours and feed on soft food for two days. It will soon recover. 
From November until March is the season of the year when 
some of the hens may become crop-bound. It is caused by the 
lack of green food which tempts the hens to swallow bulky 
food of some kind as a substitute, the result being that they 
resort to the long dried grasses which becomes packed in the 
crops and causes crop-bound. 

Scaly Leg' — Wash the feet and legs of the fowl well with 
castile soap. After drying, apply equal parts of mutton tallow 
and coal oil and rub Avell. Two or three applications will gen- 
erally cure the worst cases. 

SHEEP. 

This animal holds his own on the fields of industry both 
as a food and wool product. He is easily kept and will live on 
very scant feed. The principal disease that affect sheep is 
called "sheep rot." The following is given as an excellent 
preparation for this disease : Take 4 ozs. of pure honey, 2 ozs. 
of pulverized burnt alum and i/o lb. of Ajrmenian bole, with as 
much train or fish oil as will convert the ingredients into a 
salve. The honey must first be gradually dissolved, when the 
Armenian bole must be stirred in, afterwards the train oil and 
alum are to be added. Being harmless, it can be used at pleas- 
ure with good results. 

To Produce a Good Fleece — Immediately after the sheep 
are shorn, soak the roots of the wool that remains all over with 
oil, or butter, and brimstone, and three or four days afterwards 
wash them in salty water. The wool of next season will not be 
much finer, but the quantity will be in greater abundance. It 
may be depended upon that sheep will not be troubled with the 
scab or vermin that year. Salt water is a safe and effectual 
remedy against maggots. 

To Mark Sheep Without Injury — Take 30 spoonfuls of lin- 
seed oil, add 2 ozs. of litharge. 1 oz. of lamp black ; boil all to- 
gether and mark the sheep therewith. 



98 THEREFLECTOR 

To Fatten Sheep — Good clover hay is an excellent flesh 
producer if the hay has been cut in full bloom, so as to retain 
all its juices before they are turned into woody fiber and of a 
good green color. Other kinds of hay, if of good quality, will 
answer the purpose. A sheep of 120 pounds live weight will 
consume 21 pounds of good hay per week with an increase in 
flesh of 2 pounds. Allowing that it would ordinarily take 14 
pounds to keep it in good stationary condition^ an expenditure 
of 7 pounds of hay extra will produce 1% pounds of mutton, 
worth in the spring 10 cents — perhaps more — so that hay is 
literally realizing to the farmer at the rate of $30 or more per 
ton. No other stock, we think, will give a return for the 
trouble of fattening like this. To fatten sheep more rapidly, 
the daily addition of a small quantity of oats to their feed will 
produce good effects. Keep their quarters dry, well-ventilated, 
and abundantly littered with clean straw, with free access to 
good water and an occasionel taste of salt. During the grazing 
seasion the health of the sheep can be promoted by giving tar at 
the rate of a gill a day for every 20 sheep, and if given pine 
boughs once or twice a week they will create appetite, prevent 
disease, and increase their health. The best sheep to keep, both 
for wool and mutton, is the American Merino. 




Medical Department 



On the introduction of this chapter I have decided to di- 
gress from the established order. This is being written to con- 
vey as much knowledge to the laity as is consistent with the in- 
tent and purposes of the question at issue. It has been a mat- 
ter of conjecture in my mind as to the introduction of the 
proper topic, but on a more mature deliberation it is thought 
best to give a description of the tongue with its relation to dis- 
eased action and drug indication. Let me see your tongue? 
And how does it look ? are questions that are frequently heard 
by those seeking treatment. The foregoing is here appende<l 
to give some knowledge of what the expressions given on the 
tongue mean and the medicine indicated. 

The normal tongue in size and shape must be known bo- 
fore we can tell anything about its changes. 

The normal tongue shows a healthy expression in natural 
redness, moisture and no coat; neither too broad, contracted or 
pointed. Tongue moist is regarded favorable; dry denotes 
diminished secretion. An unnatural red tongue is seen in 
eruptive fevers, gastric and bilious and in many bad cases of 
chronic dyspepsia. It indicates acids, orange or lemon. Where 
the tongue is sleek, looks like raw beef, shows too much alka- 
line salts in the blood and calls for a mineral acid, muriatic. A 
broad, pallied or blanched tongue shoA^s too much acid in the 
svstem and a want of alkaline salts. There are stronger indi- 



100 THEREFLECTOR 

cations if the coating of the tongue is moist, white and pasty. 
There are three conditions to be observed: Fullness or swell- 
ing, relaxed or want of tonicity, palid or absence of color, not 
only of the tongue, but all of the mucous structures, a peculiar 
coating — white — pasty, or yellowish white. The first relates 
to the sympathetic nerves and shows relaxation and causes a 
sluggish circulation with impaired function in the digestive 
tract ; mental dullness ; in some cases, a dull headache and 
nausea. Sulphite of soda and small doses of podophilin will 
meet these indications. 

Tongue oval or rounding indicates trouble in kidneys, ac- 
companied with hysteria. Pipsissewa, the remedy. 

Tongue with reddened tip and edges. Irritation of stomach 
and bowels, with too much blood flowing to the part. Small 
doses of aconite and ipecac. 

Tongue thick, large, flabby, pale and indented with the 
teeth, indicates topidity of stomach. Nux vomica ten drops, 
water four ounces. A teaspoonful every four hours. 

Tongue dark red, creased or dry, mucous membranes dry, 
skin dry, tenderness on pressure over the abdomen in pro- 
tracted fevers. Turpentine, 5 drops every two to four hours. 

Tongue dry, dark red and cracked, indicates threatening 
ulceration of the bowels with hemorrhage. 

Tongue red or violet colored, sleek and glistening. Dilute 
sulphurous acid. Five to ten drops in water every two hours. 

Tongue dirty, coated at the base with foul breath. Sul- 
phuric acid. 

Tongue coated brown with sordes on teeth and mouth dry. 
Hydrochloric acid with glycerine or glycerine and water held 
in mouth to moisten. 

Tongue nearly normal in shape, rather narrow, white tip- 
ped papillae over a very red base, moist, steady gastric distress 
after eating, difficult gastric juice. Dilute hydrochloric acid 
5 to 20 drops. 

Tongue long and slightly pointed with redden tips and 
edges. Cocaine, 1 grain ; water, 2 ozs. ; a tablespoonful every 
ten or fifteen minutes. 

Tongue coated on ftne side only. Inflammation of one lung, 
liver or spleen. 



THEREFLECTOR 101 

Tongue strawberry red, with raised papillae, indicates 
scralet fever. 

Tongue dusky, mucous membranes dark, thin, dry, brown- 
ish black, face purple like exposure to cold air, pulse sup- 
pressed and feeble, the condition present during exhausting 
fevers. Baptisia, ten drops ; water four ounces ; from a half to 
one teaspoonful every hour. 

Tongue bluish-colored shows on impeded circulation in 
bronchitis, pneumonia, valvular diseases of the heart, dropsy, 
especially of the chest, cj^anosis, scurvey, croup, whooping 
cough, asthma and salivation. 

Tongue dark coated, if cracked, is an unfavorable sign in 
continued fevers. When the fur separates into patches, leaving 
a raw surface, red and glossy, it is unfavorable, especially in 
fever. 

Tongue red on tip and edges with a dry streak in the mid- 
dle is seen in typhoid fever and inflammation of the bowels. If 
red, clean and glossy, it shows a grave form of fever, ap- 
proaching brain complications and delirium, and if deep red, 
dark or cracked, it indicates ulceration of the bowels. 

Tonue full and pale, heavy yellowish coat, mucouus mem- 
branes pale, feeble capillary circulation, tendency to headache, 
disturbance of the stomach, faulty liver action. Chionanthus, 
two to five drops every three hours, with nox vomica, if feeble- 
ness. 

Tongue hot ; found in high fevers and in thrush in infants 
and in inflammation of the stomach in adults. 

Tongue constantly dirty in infants or young children; 
breath foul ; picking at the nose ; fickle appetite and uncertain 
temper; stools may be light and pasty; pale or dirty, examine 
the mouth. Indicates worms. Give one-fourth grain santonine 
with one-fourth drop of mix vomica in water (one drop to four 
teaspoonfuls of water) every four to six hours. 

Tongue pale, thick, found in chills and after hemorrhages, 
dropsy, chlorosis and where there is a deficiency of red blood 
cells. Tonics, iron and strychnine. 

Tongue dark and trembly when protruded. In typhoid 
conditions where there is tendency to extreme lack of tone, 



102 THEREFLECTOR 

feeble circulation and threatened necrosis. Oil of sasafras tu ta 
8 drops every 3 or -4 hours. 

Tongue of dirty color, whether whitish, yellowish, or dirty 
brown. The intestinal tract must be thoroughly cleansed. Ep- 
som salts ; if dirty white, sulphite of soda. 

Tongue brownish or black, points to death of blood. Give 
echinacea, baptisia, mineral acids as indicated iron and chlorate 
of potash. 

Tongue dark red, papillae elongated, nausea. Nitric acid, 
dilute, 2 to 5 drops every two hours. 

Tongue lead colored, full, pasty fur; gastro intestinal in- 
activity. Give leptandrin frequently in small doses with iodide 
of sodium from 1 to 15 grains for its general influence ; three 
grains of acetate of potassium every three hours, if urine is 
scanty. 

The above descriptition of this very important organ is 
sufficient to give a fair knowledge of its expressions in the va- 
rious forms of disease. If properly studied will aid anyone 
in the treatment. 

DOSE OF MEDICINES. 

We here give the doses of the principal medicines used 
in this work. The dose, as given for adults, must be re- 
duced from a twelfth to a twentieth, according to age. 

We wish to impress it upon the mind that uniform doses 
depend upon a drug of uniform strength. Overdosing under 
excitement, or negligence in administration or ^overheated 
anxiety in any case, is liable to terminate seriously. Patience, 
coolness and a clear head are the prerequisites necessary in 
a sick chamber. In non-professional hands it is safest to ob- 
serve the rule of never giving the maximum dose of any 
medicine. 

Aconite, tincture, pure, gts. 1 to 3, 

Apis Mellifica, gts. 1 to 5. 

Arnica, tinct. gts. % to 1. 

Apmorphia, emetic, grs. 1-8 to 1-10. 

Apocynum, gts. 5 to 15. 

Amyl nitrite, inhale, gts. 3 to 5. 

Ammonium, carbonate grs. 5 to 10. 

Arsenic iodide, grs. 1-30 to 1-50. 



THEREFLECTOR 103 

Ammonia, bromide, grs. 10 to 15. 
Ammonia, benzoas, grs. 5 to 30. 
Ammonia, valerianas, grs. 1 to 2. 
Alnus rubra, gts 1 to 20. 
Aesculus glabra, gts. 1 to 5. 
Aether, gts. 5 to 20. 
Acid, sulphuric, dilute, gts. 3 to 8. 
. Acid, sulphurous, gts. 5 to 10. 
Acid, nitric, dilute, gts. 3 to 5. 
Acid, lacticum, gts. 10 to 20. 
Acid, hydrochloric, dilute, gts. 3 to 4. 
Acid, galicum, grs. 1 to 10. 
Acid, benzoic, grs. 1 to 15. 
Achillea, melifolium, gts. 3 to 20. 
Belladonna, tinct., gts. 3 to 5. 
Bryonia, gts. 2 to 3. 
Baptisia, gts. 5 to 10. 
Bismuth, subnitrate, grs. 5 to 20. 
Buchu, gts. 15 to 60. 
Castus, grandiflorus, gts. 5 to 20. 
Camphor, gts. 3 to 5. 
Camphora, monobromata, grs. 1 to 5. 
Cannabis indica, gts. 2 to 10. 
Cantharis, gts. 1-2 to 1-20. 
Carbo vegetabilis, gr. i/2- 
Chamonile, gts. 1 to 2. 
Coloeynth, gts. 1/2 to 1. . 
Capsicum, gts. 1 to 5. 
Cerii oxalus, grs. 1 to 5. 
Chelone glabra, gts. 1 to 10. 
Chionanthus, gts. 2 to 10. 
Chimaphila, drs. 1 to 2. 
Chloral hydrate, grs. 10 to 15. 
Chloroform, gts. 10 to 15. 
Cinchonia sulphas, grs. 5 to 10. 
Cinnamon oil, gts. 8 to 10. 
Colchicum, gts. 1 to 10. 
Collinsonia, gts. 1 to 15. 
Copabia, balsam, gts. 10 to 15. 



104 THEREFLECTOR 

Corydalis formosa, gts. 5 to 10. 

Creosote, gts. 1 to 2. 

Cubeba, tinct., gts. 1 to 10. 

Delphinium staphysagra, gts. 3 to 5. 

Digitalis, gts. 1 to 10. 

Erigeron, gts. 5 to 10. 

Eupatoriiim purpureum, gts. 10 to 30. 

Euphorbia corollata, gts. 1 to 3. 

Euphrasia, gts. 1 to 5. 

Gelsemium, gts. 2 to 10. 

Geranium, gts. 1 to 30. 

Gossypium, gts. 1 to 30. 

Grindelia, gts, 5 to 30. 

Hemamelis, gts. 2 to 10. 

Humulus, . gts. 1 to 15. 

Hydrangea, gts. 5 to 15. 

Hydrastis, colorless, gts. 10 to 30. 

Hyoseyamus, gts. 1 to 5. 

Ignatia, gts. 1 to 5. 

Ipecac, gts. 1 to 20. 

Iris versicolor, gts. 1 to 15. 

Jalapa, gts. 5 to 20. 

Juglans, gts. 5 to 10. 

Kava-kava, gts. 10 to 30. 

Leptandra. gts. 1 to 10. 

Lilium, gts. 1 to 5. 

Lobelia, gts. 1 to 60. 

Miehella, gts. 5 to 15. 

Morphia. Sulph. gr. 1-4 to 1-12. 

Nux vomica, gts. 1 to 5. 

Oil, cajaput, gts. 2 to 5. 

Oil, croton, gts. I/2 to 1. 

Opium, gr. 1. 

Phytoltacca, gts. 1 to 5. 

Podophyllum, gts. 1 to 5. 

Potassa bitartrate, dr. % to 1. 

Potassa bromide, grs. 1 to 20. 

Pofjissa. ehloras, grs. 1 to 2. 

Potassa, nitrate, grs. 5 to 10. 



T H E R E F L E C T () K Jo", 

Potassa permanginate, grs. 1 to 2. 
Pulsatilla, gts. 5 to 10. 
Khus tox, gts. 1 to 5. 
Kumex crispus, gts. 3 to 5. 
Sanguinaria, gts. 1 to 5. 
Santonine, gr. % to 1. 
Senecio aurens, gts. 5 to 10. 
Sodium Sulphite, grs. 1 to^ 5. 
Sodium nitrate, grs. 5 to 10. 
Spiritus aetheris, gts. 5 to 20. 
Strychnia, gr. 1-30 to 1-100. 
Thuja, gts. 5 to 10. 
Uva Ursi, gts. 5 to 15. 
Veratrum viride, gts. i/2 to 1. 
Viburnum opulus, gts. 1 to 30. 
Viburnum prunifolium, gts. 1 to 30. 

DIETETICS. 

This subject has been treated of in another section oL' 
this book, but as it is correctly claimed, that bread is the 
staff of life, it is thought proper to give the question a short 
review. 

Proper diet is essential not only to adults but to the per- 
fect development of the young, thus rendering life vigorous, 
decay less rapid and death more distant. The equal balance 
of all the organs of the body was the design of the Creator, 
when he made man. Extended observation has proved that 
the healing property of medicines is much retarded and in 
many instances prevented by improper quantities and kinds 
of food. Any articles of diet that overstimulates the system 
greatly lessens the susceptibility of the system to receive the 
action of the medicine. Reference should be made to the di- 
gestive time table given elsewhere in this work and study 
given to the various properties of food in the preparation and 
digestion. 

Sick people should eat at regular meal time, and if the ap- 
petite is not sharp enough to demand it, wait till next time. 
Stuffing is bad policy and should be avoided. 

It must be remembered that no single element or con- 
stituent of our food is alone capable of long sustaining the 



106 THEREFLECTOR 

body. If salt and lime are deficient in the blood nutrition 
suffers at once. The healthy body contains on an average 
one-fourth of a pound of common salt. In consequence of 
the presence of this salt, the coating of the blood vessels is 
able to conduct the current of electricity, generated by tile 
iron in the blood. And where there is a dificiency of this salt 
in the blood there is a deficiency of electricity in the body. 
It is believed that pest and cholera among many of the poor 
in East India are due to a scarcity of salt with those who can 
not afford to purchase it on account of the very high duty 
on it. The pale cheeks of many of the young girls are due 
to a lack of salt in their diet. We excrete a certain amount 
of salt daily, hence the necessity of a daily re-supply to pre- 
serve health. Salt also aids other minerals in their solution, 
such as lime. Lime is a mineral tonic of much utlity in the 
system. Six molecules of lime has the power to combine with 
six molecules of bicarbonate ammonia. Salt and lime influ- 
ence prolificness — the vitality. Gluten of good flour furnishes 
the lime, which the salt dissolves out of the gluten. 

Potatoes contain a small amount of lime. Nations living 
on a lava soil, which is destitute of sulphates and who live 
principally on a fruit diet, are fast fading from the earth with 
leprosy and like diseases of the integument. The substance 
of the nerves is an oil containing ammonia combined with 
phosphoric acid. Sulphuric acid combined with taurin is 
frequently found in the bile. When water is taken into the 
full or partially full stomach it does not mingle with the 
food, as is commonly taught, but passes along quickly be- 
tween the food and lesser curvatures towards the pylorus, 
through which it passes into the intestines. The secretions 
of mucus by the lining membrane is constant and during 
the night a considerable amount accumulates in the stomach ; 
some of its liquid portion is absorbed and that which remains 
is thick and tenacious. If food is taken into the stomach 
when in this condition, it becomes coated with this mucus 
and the secretion of the gastric juice and its action is delayed. 
These facts show the value of a goblet of water before break- 
fast. The water washes oiit the tenacious mucous and stimu- 
lates the gastric glands to action. Lemon juice, with water 



THEREFLECTOR 107 

and a very little sugar, taken every morning, will keep the 
stomach in order and prevent dyspepsia. Wheie there is 
falling out of the hair, especially when dark, cut off a slice 
of lemon and rub it on the scalp. It will stop the trouble 
promptly. If ladies desire a complexion like princes, squeeze 
a lemon into a quart of milk and bathe the face with the mix- 
ture night and morning. Mix equal parts of lemon juice and 
glycerine and rub the hands thoroughly with the mixture 
before going to bed. Sleeping with gloves on will add to its 
efficacy. In the morning, wash the hands thoroughly in warm 
water and apply lemon juice only, but just a few drops. A 
dazzling or unnatural whiteness will follow if used too long. 
Applied to the head in headaches, with slits rubbed on each 
temple and also to bee stings, or other insects, it will be ef- 
fective. 

THE HEALTHY BODY. 

Before we can properly gauge disease, it is necessary to 
have a standard by which to draw a conclusion. Diseases is 
a deviation from a healthy standard of structure and func- 
tion. The following standard of health, by Doctor J. M. 
Scudder, is given as follows 

1. That the general expression of the body would be 
of vigor and the countenance would indicate that existence 
was pleasurable ; 1. e., an absence of painful or unpleasant 
sensations. 

2. The temperature should be maintained at the standard 
of 98.4. 

3. The circulation of blood should be uniform and regular, 
showing good aeration by its bright redness at those parts 
where it is frequently distributed to the surface. The pulse 
ranging from 60 to 70 beats per minute, rarely falling below 
or above this standard. 

4. The tongue should be clean and of a uniform pale, 
rose-color. The appetite good, the food taken with pleasure; 
digestion attended with a feeling of comfort; and the bowels 
moving freely at regular intervals. 

5. The soft structure should be full, the different tissues 
well outlined and giving to the touch that degree of hardness 
that we describe as tonicity. 



108 THEREFLECTOR 

6. The skin should give to the touch a sense of pleasant 
coolness, moisture and elasticity; showing good excretion and 
the power of removing excess of caloric. The discharge of 
urine regular, pleasurable, of natural color and specific 
gravity. 

7. The clear eye, the general expression of the body and 
form being smooth and uniform, expressive of pleasure, at 
least of absence of suffering, will indicate a healthy condition 
of the nervous system." 

With the above given as a fair standard of health, we 
are able to arrive at some conclusion as to the nature of the 
case by observing whether or not there is any deviation, and, 
if any, how much and what is it? We see if there is any 
excess, if so, how much above the normal standard, as in fevers •, 
is there any defect in digestion, circulation, elimination ; or 
is there any defect in secretion, excretion, or innervation? 
The condition of the system, in regard to either excess, defect 
or perverted as to its relation to other parts of the body, will 
give a fair idea of the nature of the case and will, if closely 
studied, afford a reasonable knowledge as to the proper course 
of treatment to pursue. 

Pulse — The temperature is usually in proportion to the 
pulse rate, one degree corresponding to an increase of ten 
beats per minute. The pulse is produced by the expulsion of 
the blood from the heart through the aorta and thence through 
the various arteries of the body, by each contraction of the 
left ventricle of the heart and expansion and contractility 
of the arterial walls. Hence tbe character of the pulse will 
be modified by the condition of the heart and also by that 
of the blood vessels and of the blood itself. In ordinary 
cases, the pulse may be examined at the wrist. In examining 
the pulse, the pressure upon the artery must be gentle and 
lightly depressed with three fingers ranging along the course 
of the artery. The frequency of the beats may be counted 
by the movements of the second hand of a watch. Its peculiar 
characteristics should be observerd. The healthy pulse is 
uniform, equal and moderately full and swells slowly under 
the pressure of the fingers; it is smaller and quicker m chif- 
dren and ordinarily also in women. In examining the pulse, 



THBREFLECTOR 109 

notice the fullness, the softness; whether easily compressed, 
bounding, strong, hard, soft, small and wiry, intermittent or 
regular in beat. In old age, there is a structural change in 
the arterial coats, and hence, the pulse become somewhat 
harder than in the young and vigorous. In health, the av- 
erage number of pulse beats in a minute at different ages is 
as follows: At birth 140, during infancy 120 to 130, in chlid- 
hood 100, in youth 90, in adult age 70 to 72, in old age, 65 to 
70, in decrepitude 75 to 80. It is quickened by exertion or 
excitement; it is more frequent in the morning and just after 
meals ; it is somewhat faster when standing than when sitting 
and in sitting than lying; but is retarded by sleep, cold, 
fatigue, hunger and by arterial sedatives, such as digitalis and 
veratrum. A rapid pulse, especially when it is strong, full 
and hard, indicates fever and inflammation; if very rapid 
and small, it indicates debility or depression, as is the case 
frequently in diseases of the bowels. A jerking pulse, with 
quick and forcible beat, followed by abrupt cessation for 
one or two beats, indicates structural lesion of the valves oC 
the heart. The pulse may intermit or stop occasionally, owing 
to the obstruction to the circulation of the blood in the heart 
and the lungs or from softening of the brain, or from inflam- 
mation of the brain, from apoplexy. Hernia, inflammation or 
gangrene of the intestines may produce intermittency in the 
pulse and it may also be produced by prolonged or over-exer- 
tion, Avant of rest or sleep and anxiety. Indigestion with flatu- 
lency may produce it in a less marked degree. A weak pulse 
indicates impoverished blood and debility and a full pulse de- 
notes plethora, or the early stage of acute disease. 

The Temperature — Since a normal temperature must cir- 
cle very closely around 98.4, we find that a deviation above 
99.5 degrees or falling below 97.3 are indications of a diseased 
condition. A normal temperature gives assurance of the ab- 
sence of anything except local and very trifling disturbances 
of health ; but any acute disease elevates the temperature very 
rapidly above the normal, while sepsis or poisoning has a ten- 
dency to cause it to fall below. By the use of a clinical 
thermometer (and I mean a good one) we readily diagnose 
between an inflammatory and non-inflammatory form of dis- 



110 THEREFLECTOR 

ease and the thermometer helps us to deteimiiie the intensity 
of the inflammation, by the number of the degrees the bodily 
heat rises above the normal standard. Hysteria often re- 
sembles inflammatory disease; the temperature always quite 
natural, but very different in inflammation. In typhoid fever, 
the thermometer not only indicates the fever, but also reveals 
the changes that are about to take place in the patient's con- 
dition. In consumption, even when other symptoms are ob- 
scure, the thermometer will show that the temperature is above 
102.3 degrees, or even higher and the temperature will in- 
crease in proportion to tlie tubucular deposit. In measles, 
the thermometer is the best means of determining that pneu- 
monia is setting in. In acute rheumatism, if the temperature 
runs above 104 degrees it indicates grave complications. 

Respiration — Healthy inspiration and expiration are per- 
formed with ease. Breathing is quickened by exertion and 
by disease especially fevers. Normal breathing is from 18 to 
20 times per minute. Dyspnoea, or difficult breathing, may 
be the result of the loss of lung substance, foreign deposits 
in the lungs, formation of false membranes in the air pass- 
ages, as in croup or diphtheria, in tonsillitis and glossitis ; also, 
in asthma, which is a spasm of the muscles of the air tubes. 
A collection of fluid in the serous membranes surrounding 
the heart and lungs causes dyspnoea from compression. Or- 
ganic diseases of the heart and functional diseases of this 
organ cause dyspnoea. Disease of the nerves of respiration, 
or their centers, cause dyspnoea. Fracture of a rib or of 
several ribs, apoplexy or great exhaustion, an insufficient 
supply of blood to the nerve centers of the brain, all may 
cause dispnoea. 

Kidneys, Their Action — It is not the aim of this work 
to give a thorough anatomical or physiological description of 
the kidneys, but to impart such knowledge as can be used in 
a practical way. The functions of the kidneys are two-fold: 
First, to remove the principal part of nitrogenized waste ; and, 
second, to remove superfluous water, thereby equalizing the 
pressure at a uniform standard. The quantity of solids will 
vary therefore with waste of tissue ; the water will vary with 
the amount of fluid assumed, the amount formed in the body, 
and the amount removed by the skin. Their relation between 



THEREFLECTOR 111 

the skin and kidneys should be especially noted, for if secre- 
tion is free from the skin, the quantity of urine is diminished 
and if the kidneys are active, the action of the skin is re- 
duced ; this does not, however, affect the solids. The average 
amount of secretion passed by the healthy adult in twenty-four 
hours, will range from 30 ounces in summer to 40 ounces in 
the winter; and the average specific gravity will be 1015 in 
winter and 1025 in summer. 

Bowels — Our inquiry in regard to the bowels must be 
directed to their power to increase or diminish secretion ; 
second, to the condition of the intestinal canal as an appa- 
ratus for digestion; and third, to an}- abnormal constituent 
or marked change in the character of excretion. Since the 
liver has been for years associated with bowel conditions, 
and shot at, so to speak, with blue mass, calomel and many 
other confounded-and-go-fetch-'em pills, it would seem appro- 
priate to give it a passing notice in connection with the intes- 
tinal tract. The liver, which was once supposed to play so 
important a part in the excretions, is shown to be a gland 
classified with the spleen or pancreas. There is no drug 
that will go directly to the spot and prod it into action. 
Most all that condition called billiousness is only the sluggish- 
ness of the stomach and upper bowels. The bile is an 
antiseptic to the bowels and therefore its functions are to 
secrete and excrete poisons from the system and assist the 
intestines in performing duty in the removing of excremen- 
titious matter. Any drug administered, ''to act on the liver,"' 
does so in active catharsis only and in that instance its action 
lessens secretion. If we could learn that the liver performs 
an important place in digestion and in blood making, fur- 
nishing its secretion for those purposes and that it is ad- 
mirably adapted to those purposes and rarely subject of 
disease and that we have no medicines that influence it 
directly, to increase secretion, we will have made an important 
advance in our knowledge and treatment of disease. 

An increased action of the' bowels, in proportion to its 
extent and duration, causes debility; for the vital material, 
either as food or tissue, is proportionately removed. Fluid 
feces, whilst very frequently in excess as above, deserve 



112 THEREFLECTOR 

attention more particularly as indicating such lesions of the 
intestinal tract, as interferes with digestion and blood mak- 
ing ; and also with that due degree of distension of the blood 
vessels, which is necessary to a proper circulation. A defi- 
ciency or excess may depend upon the quantity as well as the 
quality of food, the largest portion of exciement being fur- 
nished by the rejected elements of food ; or it may depend 
upon an arrest of secretion, in which case we will have the 
same constitutional evidence that we would have in similar 
arrest from the skin and kidneys; or it may depend upon 
atony of the intestinal canal, which allows the material to 
accumulate, without the natural effort at removal. Simple 
constipation gives rise to derangements of digestion and the 
retention of effete material in the bowels occasions a feeling 
of malaise and dullness, with headache and fever, insofar as 
they are retained in the blood or re-absorbed. The color of 
the discharge is sometimes of importance in determining the 
character of the disease. The dark-brown or almost black 
color is observed in typhoid disease and arises from the excre- 
tion of the coloring material of the blood; the red globules 
being broken down rapidly ; however, iron, sulphur or Epsom 
salts may produce a discoloration. The dark green color fol- 
lowing the administration of mercury, and generally thought 
to be bile, was due to the formation of sulphurate of mercury. 
Greenish discharges are generally caused by an increase of 
acid in the intestinal canal with irritation and consequently 
indigestion. It may, in part, be caused by bile, which is 
thrown off by the excrement in consequence of such irritation. 
Clay-colored, refers to a lack of secretion; not only to the 
solitary glands of the intestines, but the associated viscera. 
It is an atonic condition with impaired innervation and circu- 
lation. A cadaverous fetor may be taken, however, as a septic 
condition, not only of the intestinal secretions, but also of the 
fluids and solids of the body. More fat is thrown off than 
usual in consumptives and sugar is occasionally found in the 
discharges of persons afflicted with diabetis. When the stools 
are found to be dark, chocolate-color, or like tar, there is 
blood contained in them and this arises from the upper intes- 
tinal canal, from the effects of such diseases as typhus, 
typhoid, dysentery and cholera. 



THEREFLECTOR 113 

Nervous System — Any disease that afflicts the body, calls 
into action a greater activity of nerve force, and hence mark 
an important suggestion in our estimates of disease. We may 
determine the condition of the spinal and brain centers quite 
accurately by the appearance of the eye, and it is the best 
guide to the proper remedy. 

If the eye is bright, clear and shining, with contracted 
pupils, there is irritation and an over-flow of blood to the 
part, active hyper-aemia; the marked character of the symp- 
toms will determine the intensity of the condition. Gelsimium 
is the remedy indicated. 

If the eyes are dull the pupils large, there is atony of 
the nerve centers, with feeble circulation or congestion. The 
remedy is belladonna. 

Delirium is manifested in two opposite conditions. In 
the first there is a full, hard pulse, flushed face, clear, shining 
eyes, pupil contracted, indicating a condition of excitement 
from increased circulation. In the other there is a soft, feeble 
pulse, pale face and dull eye — the delirium resulting from 
debility. The patient generally sleeps with eyes partly open. 

Pain — It would seem unnecessary to refer to pain, but 
it shares its relations with all other symptoms of danger and 
is the unpleasant feature of sickness. Pain may be local, 
circumscribed in area, or it may depend upon a double lesion 
— of the part where it is produced and of the nerve center 
upon which it is depressed; therefore dependent upon two 
very opposite conditions. In the one there is excitation of 
the part, or of the part and the nerve center, with determina- 
tion of blood — an active condition. In the other, there is an 
atonic condition of the part, or of the part and the nerve center, 
with feeble circulation and impaired nutrition — a passive con- 
dition. The treatment of the first would not do for the 
second. 

Pain is the index pointing to an unnatural excitation of 
the nervous system and is expressed in the action of the 
muscles of expression. The evidence of nervous exhaustion 
is shown in dullness, stupor and coma. 

Antiseptics — The study of vegetable fungi and its relation 
to the development of diseased conditions arising from swamps 
and malarial districts, has resulted in the preventive method 



114 THEREFLECTOR 

of destroying tne nidus or the germinating power by the use 
of disinfecting materials. Not until recent years, has the 
cause of disease been studied with a view to ascertain the 
origin and development. Some of the peculiar characteristics 
of this class of diseases are : That they occur epidemically ; 
that they are more or less contagious and infectious; that 
each of them is distinct from the others of this group and runs 
a typical course ; and that the particular poisin giving rise 
to each of these diseases develops very rapidly ; a single case 
of this class of diseases, introduced into a locality, may 
cause the death of thousands. It has been observed that this 
class of diseases was caused by something that multiplied very 
rapidly and that inhered in the clothing, bed clothing, and 
even to buildings, ships, prisons and camps, and that could 
be conveyed in the open air for a distance. For many years, 
scientific men have endeavored to discover this cause of con- 
tagion of disease. A fluid could not produce the results; so 
contagion was finally regarded to be a solid substance in a 
state of very minute parts. It has proven insoluble in the 
fluids in which it can live by subsidence; and by filtration, 
the poison does not pass through a fine filter. These facts, 
taken with its great power to multiply, all go to prove that 
the contagion must be some living organism. This contagion, 
or germ, gave rise to the germ theory of disease ; a theory 
already demonstrated in many morbid manifestations, and 
likely, if more fully developed, to throw a flood of light upon 
some obscure cause of the disease and suggest a treatment 
for many diseases hitherto regarded as almost, if not entirely, 
incurable. It is an established fact that the organisms formed 
in a fluid may be reproduced several times in artificial fluids 
and thoroughly washed with distilled water, the reaction char- 
acteristic of the peculiar feranentation from which it was taken, 
will still occur if the organism be now inoculated upon a suit- 
able fluid. 

Antiseptics have been selected on account of their sup- 
posed action to destroy the organism. It is a settled fact 
now, that all the processes known as fermentations and putri- 
fications are due to the action of vegetable organisms. The 
vegetable poisons that have been found connected with cer- 
tain diseases are all plants in which the leaf and stem are 



THEREFLECTOR 115 

alike ; and as tliey are all destitute of coloring matter, they 
belong to the family of fungi. The pathological, or disease 
producing fungi are divided into three kinds; bacteria, yeast, 
and moulds. The bacteria causes putrefaction and several 
fermentations, and are the organisms that are credited with 
the power of producing the infectious diseases. They are, for 
this reason, the most important variety. The presence of water 
is necessary to the production of all fungi. The moulds re- 
quire less than yeast and bacteria. Too much water is detri- 
mental to the yeast and bacteria. Each of these organisms 
live best at a certain temperature. Either extreme, heat or 
cold, will destroy their development. It is an undeniable fact 
that much smaller amounts of an antiseptic will prevent the 
development of these organisms, than will totally destroy 
them after they are once developed. 

There are a number of articles, some of quite recent intro- 
duction, that are antiseptic in their action, and they strongly 
antagonize the development and growth of this cell-life. They 
prevent the development of putrefactive bacteria. We have 
in this group vegetable substancess and mineral astringents, 
such as rasins, essential oils, several kinds of tar. chloroform, 
common salt, boracic and salicylic acid, resorein, baptisia, 
eucalyptus, turpentine, chlorine and bromine, iodine, log- 
wood, calendula, peroxide of hydrogen, sulphur and sulphurous 
acid, arsenic, corrosive sublimate, carbolic acid, quinine, sul- 
phide of calcium and still others not listed here, but the above 
will suffice for ordinary use. These vary in their antiseptic 
power, and, though one of them may prove very destructive 
to a certain poison, this does not show that it will prove so 
to another form of fungus life. It requires some study to 
learn the antidote to each parasite and the quantity requisite 
to destroy it wdthout injury to the human organism. The 
strength, however, should not be too highlj^ concentrated, 
for most of these antiseptics are irritating to the parts to which 
l]ie,v are applied and some of them are poisons. The spores 
of bacteria anthracis are injured by a watery solution of thy- 
mol or salicylic acid, by alcohol or glycerine, and they are 
destroyed by chlorine, or bromine water (2 per cent), bichlo- 
ride of mercury (1 per cent), permanginate of potash (5 per 
cent), or, in twenty-four hours, by carbolic acid (5 per cent). 



116 THEREFLECTOR 

They are not destroyed by drying. If a suitable nidus be 
tuniished for the development for organisms, they multiply 
and very soon set up a characteristic decomposition. A cer- 
tain depression of vital force in a part, or some alteration 
of its metabolism, may be sufficient to permit the develop- 
ment of germs, that under conditions less favorable would 
liave peiished. Some of these organisms are capable of living 
in sound, healthy tissues; for instance, the bacteria anthracis 
and the poisons producing the acute specific diseases. Some 
individuals, however, are not subject to the acute specific 
fevers ; children are more subject to them than adults. The 
infectious diseases do not often affect animals ; small-pox, how- 
ever, being an exception as it affects cattle ; and measles, also, 
affect hogs. Some of these poisons have a selective affinity 
for certain tissues or fluids of the bod}^ ; some of them multiply 
in the blood; some in the lymph, some in bone, others in cerebro- 
spinal meninges. The last produces cerebro-spinal menin- 
gitis. It is possible that the majoiity of the human race 
present a congenial nidus for the development of some sort 
of fungi. But all poisons seem to flourish best in the tissues 
whose vitality is more or less impaired. In fact, some cannot 
develop, unless it is in diseased tissues. Then, again, some 
other organisms cannot multiply at all in living tissue. Septic 
intoxication can be thus prevented and life often saved by 
a timely course of antiseptic treatment. The conclusion is, 
then, that organisms found in putrid wounds have entered 
from without, and it is true in regard to fungi found in dis- 
eased lesions within the tissues. Disease producing fungi, 
after entering the body, may remain about a part where they 
enter or they ma}^ spread to contagious tissue, or they may 
pass along lymphatic vessels to adjacent glands, or into the 
blood and be circulated all through the system, and soon set 
up such chemical changes in the blood that it becomes irritating 
to certain tissues. These changes in some cases, produce 
chronic diseases, in other cases acute forms of inflammation, 
up to suppuration or direct necrosis. In other eases, certain 
products being absorbed, give rise to fever. Fungi may ab- 
stract nourishment from tissues, or plug up vessels of some 
organ, as the lungs, and thus produce disease. There is yet, 
nothing like a life historj^ of bacteria. It seems they multiply by 



THEREFLECTOR 117 

division, as relates to the spore formations. Some are rounded, 
or truncated ends of rods and then there are variations in 
size and in modes of growth. The species, however, seem 
unalterable ; but the same form may be found associated with 
the most opposite chemical changes. Micrococci, which can- 
not well be distinguished by their forms or size, are found in 
relation to diphtheria, erysipelas, smallpox, pyaemia and 
Osteomyelitis. They are not the same, but they are similar 
in form, having different physiological activities. 

DISEASES 

Acne — Stone-pock is an inflammation of the sebaceous 
glands, caused by the retention of sebum. 

Symptoms — It makes its appearance about puberty in the 
form of pustules or tubercles. No part of the body is exempt 
from its development except the palms of the hands and the 
bottoms of the feet. It consist of elevations about the size 
of a pin head, or in some instances, the size of a pea, and 
attended by more or less inflammation. It seems to be more 
prevalent about the time of puberty. It is found in persons 
of light complexion, and is believed to be associated with 
the derangements of the sexual system and with some defect 
of the digestive tract. Iodide of potassium will cause an 
eruption very much like acne. The local use of tar may pro- 
duce the affection; persons who handle tar are liable to an 
artificial acne. 

Treatment — All stimulating and highly seasoned articles 
of food and drink must be avoided. If there are comedones 
or blackheads in the skin, they should be pressed out with 
a watch key or extractor. When there is inflammation, sooth- 
ing applications should be employed, such a mixture of the 
iodide of sulphur, 1 part to 40 parts of rose water and apply 
two or three times a day. Rumex crispus (yellow dock) strong 
tincture may be applied ; from 1 to 2 drops of the same may 
be taken every three or four hours. Sulphide of potassium 
and the biniodide of mercury are adapted to indurated forms, 
the parts to be well cleansed and softened with soap suds be- 
fore applying the drug. The sulphide of potassium and bin- 



118 THEREFLECTOR 

iftdide should be prepared by a pharmacist in proportion of 
one part to thirty of the emulsion of almonds. In the in- 
durated form, with red, burning, gnawing pimples, surrounded 
with red areolae and leaving brown spots, berberis vulgaris 
(barberry) in 30 drop doses, three or four times a day. If 
young and full-blooded person, belladonna, given in 2 or 3 
drop doses and can be pushed to the point of drying mouth 
and redening of the skin. If the pustules appear in groups of 
three or four on the face, chelidonium majus may be given 
3 or 4 times a day in 3 to 5 drop doses. Juglans cinerea is 
also efficient in small doses, 10 to 15 drops, two or three 
times a day. A certain Frenchman made a study of all skin 
blemishes and for many years held his method of treatment 
secret. The secret has been sold many times for hundreds of 
dollars and while the treatment has proven a success in the 
treating of freckles, chloasma and other discolorations of the 
integument, it should be handled carefully and compounded 
by a druggist. The formula, as used today by some of the 
most successful dermatoligists, is as follows : 

Salicylic acid, 4 grains; Ichthyol, 8 minims, oxide of zinc, 
20 grains ; Resorcin. 80 grains ; lard, 2 scruples ; Olive oil, 16 
minims. The resorcin, salicylic acid and zinc oxide should 
be rubbed together into a fine powder, then add and mix the 
other ingredients. After the above is thoroughly mixed, apply 
night and morning with a small paint brush, for 4 or 5 days, 
when the skin becomes dry, cracked in appearance ; just as 
if chapped. The surface is now thoroughl,v cleaned with 
juniper tar soap and warm water and the skin wiped dry in 
order to remove all scurf from the skin. The second appli- 
cation is given as follows. White gelatin, 4 ounces; zinc 
oxide, 2 drs. ; glycerine, 15 min. ; boiling water, sufficient. 
Dissolve the gelatin with sufficient water and stir in the 
other ingredients while in a water bath. This should be ap- 
plied as warm as it can be born to all the parts to be treated 
and cover with surgeon's gauze; cut in small pieces about 
one and a half or two inches square ; over which apply another 
coat. The gauze should be applied as soon as the surface paint- 
ed is large enough and only one at a time. In a few days, the 
little pieces of gauze will work loose from the edges and can 
be picked off, leaving the new under-skin exposed, taking 



THEREFLECTOR 119 

the blemish or the disease with the outer cuticle on the plaster 
removed. One of the gravest mistakes made in the use of 
the above treatment is letting it remain on too long. The 
parts could be treated with absorbent cotton and the second 
application over gauze or cotton is to seal air tight and aid 
in the contraction. It should be off in three or four days 
with a clear, healthy-looking surface. 

Those who do not choose to use the above or prefer some- 
thing of a milder form, can have their desire gratified by the 
use of lactic acid, full strength. This will move from the sur- 
face shallow blemishes by applying every one to three hours 
until the surface shows a hyperemic or sun-burnt condition. 
There is no danger and it should be applied often enough to 
keep up a red appearance and until the skin peels off like 
small pieces of tissue paper. 

Alcoholism — While this is not embodied here with a belief 
that many may avail themselves of its instructions, except to 
know what is done in those places, principally, where such 
cases are treated in a scientific manner. It is now conceded 
that excessive intoxication is a disease and as such the patient 
deserves the sympathy and kind treatment justly due any 
unfortunate. The effect of alcohol upon the system is to 
weaken the will power of the individual. Any person influ- 
enced must have all the encouragement possible otherwise all 
treatment will fail. Since the will power is lost because of 
a shattered nervous system, it would necessarily point to <i 
nervous stimulant as one drug to be thought of; strychnia 
and atropia are two drugs mostly used in the beginning of 
treatment. It is advisable to begin very cautiously, as some 
people have what is termed an idiosyncrasy regarding the 
action of certain drugs employed. That is, they cannot take 
certain drugs without its causing too much effect, to be used. 
The treatment, to be successful, must be begun by giving 
one-third or one-half a full dose and increase as the patient 
can tolerate it. Excretion is necessary and the skin should 
be kept clean and the pores open by a hot bath every other 
or third day. Bowels open with iris, podophylum, balmony 
or fringe-tree. The diet should be light and easily digested. 
A pharmacist of Baltimore has a copy of a formula, regis- 
tered as 10041, containing the following : 



120 THE REFLECTOR 

Strychnine, S5-100 gr. 
Atropine Sulph., 40-100 gr. 
Acid Boracic, 10 gr. 
Hydrastis Canadensis, 10 drops. 
Aqua distillata, q. s. ad. 1 oz. 

Mix. Sig". — According to directions as given below : Take 
lour two-dram vials, make on each a number, beginning at 
one and numbering to four. Then drop 100 drops of the above 
in each bottle. Take vial No. 2 and put 5 1-40 gr. tablet strych- 
nia nitrate. Vial No. 3, add 10 1-40 gr. tablets strychnia nitrate. 
Vial No. 4, add 20 1-40 gr. tablets of stychnia nitrate. Five 
drops is a dose from either vial. One dose should be given 
every four hours ; should 7 a. m. be chosen as the beginning, 
11 a. m. would follow as a consequence. Begin with hyper- 
dermic injections from Vial No. 1 ; then one does from vial 
No. 3 ; then one dose from vial No. 2 ; then one dose of vial 
No. 1 ; changing back and forth. If the patient can stand 
the doses quite heavy, use vial No. 4. Give separately or in 
combination with any dose from either vial, 1-40 gr. of picro- 
toxin, by mouth or hyperdermically, enough to make patient 
sweat the poison out of his system and bring back the natural 
color. If no hyperdermic is to be used and all treatment ad- 
ministered by the mouth, use vial No. 3, through the whole 
course of treatment with alcoholic tonic as if the hyperdermic 
was being used; the patient should get the full dose regularly. 
The hyperdermic is the best method of administration. In 
about five or six days, if the medicine is taking proper effect, 
there will be seen twitching of the muscles, dryness of the 
mouth, and as soon as this point is reached, treatment should 
be resumed on vial No. 1. The least medicine given to a 
patient is always the best, give always the smallest dose that 
will produce the desired effect. After a maximum dose has 
been reached, it should be decreased to amount necessary to 
hold its physiological effect. On the fourth day ask patient 
which he chooses whiskey or beer. Some may still possess the 
appetite. At this point they are generally requested to go 
and get either whiskey or beer, but requested to refrain from 
drinking until he returns. This sending the patient after ic 
is to keep him thinking that no trick is being played and also 



THEREFLECTOR 121 

to hold his confidence. This should be done at one of the 
regular hours for the hyperdermic. The regular dose has 
been changed to 1-10 gr. of apomorphia and given just as ho 
completes his drinking. This should be repeated once or twice 
a day, until whiskey or beer is disgusting to him in sight, 
taste, or smell. The regular treatment should then be kept 
up for two or three weeks longer, if the case should demand 
it. The hyperdermic dose should never be increased. If a 
stronger dose is desired, use the doses arranged and numbered 
in the four vials. Delirium tremens are best treated by be- 
ginning with a dose, by hyperdermic, from vial No. 1, and 
adding to each injection 1-250 gr. of hydrobromate of hyoscya- 
mine. By using the drug in this way there can be no bad 
results as in the use of morphine to quiet and produce sleep 
and taking the chances of adding to the whisky or beer habit 
the morphine desire. The vials used for dispensing must be 
kept clean ; no drugs or sediment should be allowed as it 
might ruin a hyperdermic needle ; there might also arise trou- 
ble from a grain of sediment being injected into the arm, as 
an absess is sure to follow. All air must be excluded from the 
syring before using. Draw in through the needle, a little 
alcohol after using on one patient and before using it on 
another. 

A tonic for whiskey patients is given as follows : Formula 
No. 10,043: 

Acid muriatic, C. P. free, 2048 gr. 

Powdered phosphate of lime, 768 gr. 

Powdered phosphate magnesia, 1024 gr. 

Fl. ext. hydrastis canadensis 256 gr. 

Powdered quinine muriate, 256 gr. 

Crystal strychnine nitrate, 10 1-4 gr. 

Fl. ext. Pulsatilla, 255 gr. 

Simple syrup, q. s. ad. 1 gal. 

Mix. Sig. — As directed below: 

Teaspoonful every four hours in a little water and taken 
between hypodermic injections or doses. This is given at 
6 a. m., 10 a. m., or every four hours till 10 p. m., provided 
the patient is up at the first and last hour. After stopping 
the use of hyperdermics, it is necessary to give the tonic twice 
a day for a Aveek or so with one tablet of 1-60 grain of strych- 



122 THEREFLECTOR 

nine nitrate added to every teaspoonful contained in the bottle. 
Before the treatment is begun the patient is examined as to 
his heart's action, respiration, secretion and excretion; then 
an objective examination is passed in regard to his past life; 
the cause of the formation of the habit and the quantity and 
quality per day. It appears that different persons have dif- 
ferent motives for the habit. Some drink because they like 
the taste and others for the effect. It patient drinks because 
he likes the taste, he can be made so sick that he will abhor 
both taste and smell. If he likes the effect, he is to receive 
a hypodermic injection of apomorphia on the fourth day, after 
beginning the treatment and enough given to keep him nause- 
ated. Each hypodermic injection should follow the drink of 
whisky or beer. If patient, who drinks for the love of whiskey 
or beer, persists in drinking, or if it is difficult to turn hira 
against it, he is given apomorphia as is stated above and is 
pushed with such regularity that he will wish in a few days 
that he had never seen any whiskey or beer. 

The Keely Cure — This cure has become quite a noted and 
the same degree of contention has arisen as follows the incor- 
poration of such institutions. The formulae were collected by 
a physician who established another institute and had his 
treatment published in pamphlet form and sold them to phy- 
sicians for $25 and had many purchasers and likewise, many 
institutions for the cure of the liquor and drug habit sprang 
up all over the country. The following are the principal for- 
mulae for the liquor treatment, solutions designated by letter: 

SOLUTION "S". 
Prescription : 

Boracic acid, 4 gr. 

Strychnine Nitrate, 14 gr. 

Aqua des., 1 oz. 

Tr. Cudbear, q. s. color. 

Sig. Dose, five to ten minims, four times a day. 

SOLUTION "A." 
Prescription : 

Atropine Sulphate, V2 gr. 
Boracic Acid, 20 gr. 



THEREFLECTOR 123 

Aqua des, 1 oz. 

Mix. Sig. Dose 5 to S minims. 

SOLUTION "A P." 
Prescription : 

Apomorphine, 4 grs. 

Boracic acid, 20 grs. 

Aqua des. 1 oz. 

Mix. Sig. : Dose six to ten minims. 

The name of the solution designated by letter, is to shon- 
what drug is the most powerful. in the formula used, "A ' 
stands for atropine; "S" for strj^chnine. 

THE GOLD FORMULA. 
Prescription. 

Gold and sodium chloride, 30 gr. 

Strychnine nitrate, 4 gr. 

Atropine sulphate, 1 gr. 

Glycerine 2 ozs. 

Fl. ext. cinchona comp. Q. S., 16 ozs. 

Mix. Sig. : One teaspoonful in water three times a day. 

- In addition to the gold formula, the patient receives a hypo- 
dermic from the formula thought most needed. For instance, 
he is a stout, portly fellow, solution "P" is used as follows: 
Prescription : 

Pilocarpine mur., 8 gr. 

Boracic acid, 20 gr. 

Aqua des., 1 oz. 

Mix. Sig. : Dose five to six minims. 

This should be used to sweat out the disease. In some 
cases, the atropine solution is the formida selected and it is 
pushed to the physiological effect of the drug. 

The apomorphine is used when the patient must be in- 
duced to refrain from drink by the "sickening process." The 
medicine is generally colored Avith caramel or some other sim- 
ple coloring matter. After the desire for liquor has been 
overcome, the patient is given hyperdermics from the Solution 
"S" and the following formula given through the remainder 
of the treatment : 
Prescription : 



124 THEREFLECTOR 

Extract Cinchonia, solid, 40 gr. 

Powdered gentian root, 2 ozs. 

Ground bitter orange peel, 14 oz. 

Powdered capsicum 20 grs. 

Glycerine, 3 ozs. 

Aqua, 2 quarts 

Caramel, q. s. to color. 

Mix the first four drugs in the 2 quarts of water and boil 
20 minutes; remove and filter; then add the glycerine and 
caramel. 

Sig : Teaspoonful every two hours in water. 

Where, from overindulgence, the stomach has become in- 
flamed and resulted in gastritis, the following is used: 
Prescription : 

Pepsin sacch., 1 dr. 

Bismuth, subnitrate, 1 dr. 

Powd. Capsicum, 20 gr. 

Mix. : Divide into 30 powders. Sig. : One powder every 
three or four hours. 

For toning up the nerves. 
Prescription : 

Tr. Cinchonia rub., 2 oz. 

Fl. ext. kola, 2 ozs. 

Fl. ext. Scutellaria, 1 oz. 

Elix. aromatic, Q. S. add 6 ozs. 

Mix. Sig. : One teaspoonful in water four times a day. 

An Indiana Institute used about the same treatment with 
but few exceptions. When a patient entered the Institute, he 
was given a hypodermic injection of 1-10 grain of chloride of 
gold and sodium and 1-40 gr. nitrate of strychnine, four times 
a day. He also received a mixture to be taken by mouth, as 
follows : 

Chloride of gold and sodium, 12 grs. 

Muriate of ammonia, 6 grs. 

Nitrate of strychnine, 1 gr. 

Atropine, 1-4 gr. 

Comp. fl. ext. of cinchonia, 8 ozs. 

Fl. ext. of cocoa, 1 oz. 

Glycerine, 1 oz. 

Aqua des., 1 oz. 



THEREPLECTOR 125 

Mix. Sig". : A teaspoonful every two hours when awake. 
This is said to be the best, but the doses are so large that it 
sets the muscles to twitching and an eruption follows soon. 

The dnig habit is so slosely allied to the liquor and is in 
line of the same treatment that a continuation of the treatment 
for drugs is here given : 

TOBACCO. 

Prescription : 

Fl. ext. columbo, I/2 oz. 

Tr. quassia, ^ oz. 

Alcohol, 1/0 oz. 

Aqua, q. s. ad. 4 ozs. 

Mix. Sig. : Teaspoonful every two to four hours. The 
hypodermic treatment consists of injections from solution "T" 
four times a day, and an occasional injection from Solution 
"P," or if a sickening sensation is required from Solution 

Pilocarpine, mur., 8 grs. 

Boracic acid, 20 grs. 

Aqua des., 1 oz. 

Sig.. Dose five to ten minims, 
Prescription No. 2 : 

Formula No. 10041, I/2 dr. 

Tr. Plantago Major, 3-4 dr. 

Tr. Avena satava, 3-4 dr. 

Mix. Sig. : Take as directed. Give patient what will 
remain on coik when shaken and placed to the tongue each 
time he feels like taking a chew or smoke, especially a dose 
after each meal. The treatment is about the same as for 
whiskey. The formula 10,041 is the number by a pharmacist 
who furnishes the preparation to institutions ready for use, 
a.t so much per gallon. Another formula is listed as 10,043 
and in writing prescriptions the number of the prescription 
containing the drrrgs desired to be rrsed all that is necessar3\ 
To illustrate, here is the formula given for cigarette smoking. 
The treatment is begun by giving a hyperdermic injection of 
1-40 grain of picrotoxine, given from vials Nos. 1 to 4, as for 
whiskey cases until copious perspiration ensues; then the pa- 
tient is given a hot sponge bath, gradually cooling him off and 



126 THEREFLECTOR 

rubbing the skin till he is thoroughly dry. Then the following 
formula : 
Prescription : 

Formula, No. 10,041, 2 dr. 
Tr. Cannabis indica, 5 drops. 
Mix. Sig. : Take as follows : 

Inject hypodermieally 5 to 10 drops from two to four 
times a day, using good .judgment as to the nature of the 
patient's susceptibility to the effects produced. A tonic is 
generally given, when the patient has taken sufficient b}^ 
hypodermic, after the following formulae: 

Phillips' phospho-muriate of quinine compound, 5 ozs. 
Avena Satava, 1 oz. 

Mix. Sig. : Teaspoonful at a dose three or four times a 
day. 

If the patient becomes nervous the following fonnula is 
used : 

Thein, Merck's, 8 grs. 
Acid, boracic, 2 grs. 
Aqua des., 1 oz. 

Mix. Sig. : Give hyperdermically five to ten drops every 
four hours. 

If the patient persists in his smoking after he has been 
treated nine days, he is given 1-10 grain of apomorphia as in 
the whisky cases; always giving it at the time the patient 
wishes to smoke. 

The following formula was placed before the medical pro- 
fession a few years ago and sold at fancy prices. It is given 
to antidote the poison of nicotine, viz : 
Hyocine hydrobromate, 1-100 gr. 
Pilocarpine, 1-100 gr. 
Strychnine nitrate, 1-100 gr. 
Atropine, 1-600 gr. 

A tablet is made of the different properties and admin- 
istered at regular intervals, beginning about two hours, after 
the effects of a full cathartic, which had been given 12 or 
15 hours before, then every 4 hours. 

The following formula is tbe one mostly given to antidote 
the poison of morphine, opium, chloral and cocain : 



THEREFLECTOR 127 

Powd. red cinchona, 1 lb. 
Powd. liydrastis canadensis, ^ lb. ' 

Powd. Pulsatilla, i/^ lb. 
Powd. nux vomica, 2 oz. 
Powd. Xantlioxylum berries, 2 oz. 
Powd. Capsicum, i/^ oz. 
Powd. Avena Satava, 8 ozs. 
Dilute alcohol sufficient, 1 gal. 

It should stand 8 or 10 days and strain, however, its use 
can be commenced immediately. Teaspoonful every four hours. 

The treatment of all such cases is very neiirly the same 
in regard to time of dose and drugs given. 

Morphine patients are, of all cases, the most deserving of 
pity. They are so far lost to resistance of the drug, until they 
will lie or steal ; the will-power having been destroyed followed 
by a form of mania. This is one of the strongest habits 
to destroy that the medical profession has had to conquer. 
The patient cannot be trusted. He requires the closest watch- 
ing at the time the drug is being withdrawn. The bowels are 
likely to become affected with cramps and cramps may also 
involve the limbs. To relieve this condition, a 10 per cent 
solution of white hellebore in four or five drop doses will 
greatly benefit them, given every half to an hour in a swallow 
of hot water. The patient is rrever to know the time the drug 
is fully withdrawn and whiskey is given to produce sleep and 
rest. 

In rro ease is the formula to be changed by increasing 
any one drug, if the physiological action is rrot reached in a 
few days. The doses are changed from weak to stronger by 
changing the vials as given under formula 10041. 

Tobacco habit is a most difficult state to conquer and 
the patient has to exercise his will power to its fullest extent. 
The following formula is given in curing the tobacco habit: 

Atropine sulphate, 1-8 gr. 

Tr. Xux vomica, Yo dr. 

Tr. humulus, 1 oz. 

Tr. quassia, lYz ozs. 

Tr. gentian, II/2 ozs. 

Tr. cinchona comp., 2 ozs. 



128 THEREFLECTOR 

Mix. Sig. : A teaspoonf ul every two or three hours while 
awake. 

'There are proprietary^ remedies thrown on the market 
and adveitised as a sure cure for the tobacco habit, but the 
treatment is about the same as is here given. 

What constitutes a cure of the alcohol, morphine and other 
habits, physicians in charge of institutions where, are exclus- 
ively treated, such patients greatly differ as to the percentage 
of cures made. According to statements given out from 
such institutions, the number of cures range from 50 to 95 
per cent of cases treated. If the appetite for such habits is 
overcome for six months, it is thought that a permanent cure 
is effective. Patients of such habits should have their minds 
occupied with work, amusement, travel, or change of scene. 
There are always periods after a patient has taken treatment 
when he has a feeling of loneliness or absent mindedness steal 
over him. Such conditions cannot be termed a craving, but 
he cannot help realizing the delightful sensations that were 
present when he was full of his once accustomed poison. It 
is therefore of greater benefit to give a good tonic preparation 
after the regular treatment is abondoned and to tell him that 
if he should ever have a desire for his liquor or drug to take 
this preparation for a day or two. 

The tonics given above will carry him through his trying 
ordeal. 

There are more successes in the treatment of the drug habit 
than that of alcohol, as in the former its more secretive, while 
the latter want associates. 

A unique method of a sure cure for drunkenness is given 
as follows : 

Confine the patient to his room and keep him drunk by 
giving him all the Avhiskey or wine or other favorite drink and 
all the drinking w^ater should be diluted, 2-3 water to 1-3 
whiskey. Tea, coffee or other liquids should always contain 
one-eighth of spirits ; all the food — the bread, meat and 
vegetables should be prepared with spirits and water. On 
the fifth day of this treatment, he will have an extreme disgust 
for spirits, being continuously drunk. The treatment should 
be kept up until he no longer desires to eat or dtink and a 
cure is certain. 



THE REFLECTOR 129 

Alopecia — No disease has attracted any more attention, 
considering its fatality, than those of the scalp. The falling 
ont of the hair has been left to the patent medicine man who 
has found fertile soil to ply his profession of a sure cure for 
baldness. Until recent years, the cause of the trouble was 
not known, yet the disease seemed to spread and attack persons 
without distinction in rank. Since the discovery of the microbe, 
it is shown that dandruff has a parasitic origin. It seems to 
be one of the evils of civilization, as it appears to have no 
medical history among uncivilized tribes. It has been noticed 
by observers that seboirhoea often attacks several members 
of the same family, who used the same hair brush and comb. 
Tiirough experiments made with mice, it was observed that, 
when they were placed in contact with hair taken from combs 
and brushes used by persons afflicted with the disease and 
(Jandruff rubbed into the hair of a rabbit, they became bald 
rapidly. Men who lead public lives and use public toilet 
utensils, brushes and combs, in hotels, offices and public re- 
sorts, are encouragers and promoters of the disease. Among 
other things which have been attributed to the cause of falling 
hair and baldness may be mentioned, excluding the top of the 
head from light, air and sunshine, which is nature's greatest 
hair grower. Another proof, however, that dandruff and fall- 
ing hair is of parasitic origin is that the only successful treat- 
ment is based upon cleanliness, antiseptic and parasitic medi- 
cation. 

Treatment — The most essential requirements to successfully 
treat dandruii. falling hair and premature baldness, are clean- 
liness, antisepl^c and stimulants and an untiring patience and 
a will-power not easily broken, to succeed. 

The number of hair restoratives thrown upon the market 
are legion. The intense itching and a mealy substance gath- 
ered in and around the roots of the hair would lead us to lay 
out some plan by which to proceed. The first thing to notice 
is the condition of the hair, whether long or short, lively or 
dead. The one thing needful is a close hair cut. Then follow 
up with a cleansing shampoo, using the following ingredients: 
Prescription : 

Cologne, 1 dr. 

Aqua ammonia, 2 dr. 



130 THEREFLECTOR 

Aqua pura, 8 ozs. 

Mix. Apply about a tablespoonful at a time to the hair, 
when dry, rubbing briskly. This will produce a full, cleans- 
iv{ foam which is very refreshing and pleasing to the scalp. 
A+'ter this has been repeated several times, the hair shouhl 
be thoroughly washed and the scalp rubbed with a compound 
of beechwood tar, forty parts to sixty parts of castile so;ip. 
The head should be rinsed with hot water, gradually cooled to 
wash out all loose and diseased hair. The bathing and treat- 
jneLTl should be repeated from two to four times a week. The 
i,a rovement can be readily seen by the subdued itching and 
less hair appearing in the water^ after the wash. The treat- 
ment should be rigidly kept up for at least four months arrd 
any time thereafter, upon the approach of the least indication 
of the disease. A good hair tonic is of great benefit in scalp 
disease and what is termed hair foods are mixtures of oil of 
olive with lanoline, resorcin and bichloride of mercury. A 
good preparation is given as follows : 

Prescription : 

Alcohol, 2 ozs. 

Glycerine, 2 ozs. 

F. E. jaborandi, 2 drs. 

Tr. cantharides, 2 drs. 

Tinet. nux vomica, 2 drs. 

Resorcin, 1 dr. 

Quinine sulphate, 20 grs. 

Bay rum, 6 ozs. 

Rose water, q. s., 16 ozs. 

Mix and filter. Apply to the roots of the hair with a good 
stiff tooth brush from two to four times a week. 

A great many hair restoratives contain sulphur and lead. 
The purpose is to give a fine expression to the hair as well as 
improvement to the scalp. The following is about as good a 
preparation as can be obtained : 

Oil of bergamont, I/2 dr. 

Oil of citronella, 1 dr. 

Alcohol, 4 ozs. 

Glycerine, 8 ozs. 

Tr. cantharndes, 4 drs. 

Sulphur precipitated. 1 oz. 



THEREFLECTOR 131 

Lead acetate, 6 dr. 

Water sufficient to make 64 ozs. 

Dissolve the oils in the alcohol ; add the glycerine and ean- 
tharides and mix with the water, then add the sulphur and 
lead. Preparations containing sulphur and lead, when exposed 
to the light, form black lead sulphide, therefore they should 
be kept in dark colored bottles. 

Acetic acid 1 part, and glycerin 2 parts, or yellow dock 
steeped in vinegar, then mix with cantharides, equal parts and 
applied will give relief. Moderate doses of muriatic acid and 
phosphorus may be taken before meals. 

Scald Head — This disease is one that causes the patient 
some Avorry as well as being almost ostracized from his associ- 
ates. No one who has seen a case of porrigo, or scald-head, 
need not be told how it looks. The patient should be provided 
with separate toilet and use no comb or brush other than his 
own. 

Treatment — The following method has been my plan and 
as it has proven a success, I have used no other : 

Cleanse scalp with warm water and castile soap, wipe 
dry and apply this microbe killer. 

Prescription : 

Red precipitate, 15 grs. 

White precipitate, 15 grs. 

Corosive sublimate, 15 grs. 

Balsam of fir, i/2 oz. 

Fresh butter, i/2 lb. 

Put butter into an earthen vessel, simmer out all water 
and remove from fire, and when nearly cool, add the other 
ingredients and stir till cold in order to thoroughly incorporate 
them. Place in wide-mouth, dark bottle and apply twice a 
day, giving from 1 to 5 drops in water, three times a day of 
F'owler's Solution of Arsenic. If the hygienic surroundings 
are closely guarded no other treatment will be necessary. No 
water and soap should be used for several days after the oint- 
ment has been applied ; not oftener than twice a week. 

Ague (Intermittent Fever) — This disease is generally 
known as "fever and ague," chills, the shakes and in some 
localities, it is known as "swamp fever." This is a periodic 
fever and is chiefly due to an infectious effluvia from decay- 



132 THEREFLECTOR 

ing animal or vegetable matter — usually the latter — and com- 
monly known as malaria. It occurs in districts where the 
surrounding country abounds in low swamps which have 
a luxuriant vegetable growth. It is more virulent in low than 
high places and hot climate, more so, than temperate. Contam- 
inated air never rises very high, which makes it quite impor- 
tant to alw^ays use the upper rooms of a building for sleeping 
purposes. 

Exposure to malaria develops in different persons a dif- 
ferent disease according to the constitutional disposition of 
the individual. That which will give lise to chills in one 
person may produce dysentaiy or remittent fever in another, 
and yet, in another it may lay latent in the system for some 
weeks, or even months. It is important to remember that fact, 
so as to be the better able to come to a correct conclusion in 
obscure cases, where the ague-fit or chill is not well developed. 

There are three stages of this disease known as quotidian. 
If the chill returns every day at about the same hour, generally 
in the morning and lasts about ten or twelve hours ; the 
tertian, which comes on every other day, generally about 
noon and lasts until evening and is the most common in this 
country. The quartan comes on once in three days, usually 
in the afternoon. It will be observed that the interval or the 
time between the commencement of one paroxysm and the 
beginning of the next, in the first variety is twenty-four hours, 
in the second, forty-eight, in the third, seventy-two. The 
first is most common in spring; the second, in the spring and 
fall; the third, in the fall. 

Symptoms — This disease may set in suddenly; or may 
come on gradually with a feeling of a general illness, which 
increases until it culminates in a regular ague-fit after a few 
days. 

A chill consists of three stages : 

1. The Cold Stage — This begins with feelings of chilliness 
and coldness in the back and extremities, weakness, the skin 
becomes rough, the nails blue, and at times, there are violent 
shiverings and chattering of the teeth, headache, oackache, 
quick, small pulse, a feeling of oppression or tightness over 
the region of the stomach. After these symptoms have lasted 



THEREFLECTOR 133 

from a half to two to four hours, the cold stage is gradually 
succeeded by a hot stage. 

2. The Hot Stage — After the cold stage passes off, comes 
reaction, and the surface of the body becomes very hot and 
dry, the face flushed, the pulse full and frequent, the mouth 
parched, excessive thirst, fullness in the head, great restless- 
ness and sometimes delirium. This stage rarely continues 
less than three hours or more than ten or twelve hours and 
then comes 

3. The Sweating Stage — This stage commences with a 
gentle moisture, which begins on the forehead and breast, heat 
of skin and thirst abate and the pulse and the breathing 
becomes natural, so that in uncomplicated cases, the patient 
feels well, but weak, until a return of the same symptoms, 
which will return at about the same hour. Complications are 
liable in protracted cases. 

Treatment — When residing in a malarial district, persons 
should take great precautions against an attack of ague by 
chosing an upper room for a bed chamber; avoid exposure, 
especially at night ; have warm clothing, good diet, pure water, 
and a due amount of repose. 

In this as well as other diseases, it is of the first impor- 
tance, that any derangement of the stomach should be corrected. 
If the patient is suffering from nausea, with ineffectual efforts 
to evacuate the stomach, administer an emetic, compound pow- 
der of lobelia and capsicum or other remedies that may be at 
hand. If there is redness of the tip and edges of the tongue, 
with tenderness on pressure over the stomach, apply a mustard 
paste and give a tea made of peach tree leaves or bark. 
Sometimes, dioscorea, 2 to 10 drops, in hot water, will be 
effectual, given every" ten to thirty minutes. Ipecac, in one 
drop doses, often gives relief; an infusion of compound powder 
of rhubarb and potash, with sometimes the addition of a small 
portion of morphia. The irritation will sometimes yield to 
aconite, 10 drops; and ipecac, 15 drops, in two-thirds of a 
teacupful of water, teaspoonful of the solution every half to 
every one or two hours. If the fever does not abate sufficient 
under this treatment to begin with antiperiodics in three or 
four hours, a change should be made to the special sedatives to 



134 THERE F LECTOR 

accomplish this purpose, giving them in small doses, frequently 
repeated, and largely diluted with water : 

Prescription : 

Tincture of Veratrum viride, 10 to 20 gtts. 

Tinct. of Aconite root, 5 to 10 gtts. 

Water, 4 ozs. 

Mix and give a teaspoonful every half to every hour. 
If the fever has been reduced by the administration of butter- 
fly weed or any other method "to sweat off the fever," the 
bowels should not be neglected. Empty with salts; a tea of 
balmony, blue flag, mayapple, black root, fringe tree, or any- 
thing, just so it is not too drastic. An injection of water, as 
hot as can be born, will aid in reducing the fever and clearing 
the bowels. Saline drinks should in no wise be neglected, if 
there is any defect in the elimination through the kidneys, give 
acetate of potash from 10 to 15 grains in a third of a teacupful 
of water, every three or four hours, or saltpetre, 1 to 5 grains 
well diluted in water. 

Where there is an involvement of the stomach, it should 
be closely watched and promptly treated. Cold water sipped 
like hot coffee will nearly always settle the stomach. I have 
used it in some very stubborn cases and have succeeded ad- 
mirably. It is not adAnsable to give medicine where there is 
constant nausea, as no medicine can possibly be absorbed. 

After the fever has been subdued and the bowels healthy 
and active, which will be seen by the tongue being clean, 
moist and of natural color. If the tongue is broad, palid, 
coated with a dirty white coat, which shows a foul stomach 
and bowels, give sodium sulphite 1 grain and podophyllin 
one-sixth to one-half grain, every two to four hours, until 
tongue is clear. Then have a prescription filled after this 
f ormlula : 

Prescription : 

F. E. of nux vomica, 10 gts. 

Compound tincture of lavender, i^ oz. 

F. E. of lobelia, 20 gts. 

Simple syrup, S^^ ozs. 
. A teaspoonful every one or two hours. 

After the bowels have been cleared, the treatment to 
check the paroxysm is the next thing to be considered. It is 



THEREFLECTOR 136 

a fact that treatment necessary for one case will fail in 
another. Some cases are very easily cured with shuck tea, 
button willow, cottonwood, dogwood, dogfennel or the follow- 
ing formula may be considered: 

Prescription. : 

Fowler's Solution, 1 dr. 

Compound tincture of iodine, 2 drs. 
Mix and give 10 to 15 drops after each meal. Use mostly 
in eases of a scrofulous tendency. 

Prescription: s , ^ 

Nitric acid (full strength). 

Muriatic acid (full strength), of each, i/o oz. 
Sulphate of iron (copperas), 1 dr. 

Mix. Let stand twelve hours and then add Fowler's 
solution, 1 dr. 

Dose, 6 to 10 drops from three to four or six times a day 
in a little sweetened water; it has been a topical remedy in 
almost all cases. If the patient should become swollen, after 
a few days treatment, the remedy has reached its physiological 
action and should be discontinued. The chills will have been 
broken and possibly some other line of treatment would be 
better, should any at all be needed. Ergot, in 10 drop doses, 
given in a little water, will aid materially in keeping off a 
chill, administered every two or three hours. Where the chill 
has already appeared, there is no equal to choloroform, given 
from 10 to 20 drop doses, according to the severity of the case, 
in a little water, stirred well, is generally sufficient for present 
relief. 

A good chill tonic, for general use and ready at hand, 
is made by the following : 

Prescription : 

Specific Tr. Gentian, 2 drs. 

Hydrastis (colorless) 2 drs. 

Cascara, 2 drs. 

Salicin, 20 grs. 

*Comp. Tinct. M.Vrrh, 1 dr. 

Simple Syrup sufficient to make 8 ozs. 

Mix and give a teaspoonful every hour, beginning six 
hours before chill time, repeating every three or four hours. 



136 THEREFLECTOR 

after the paroxysm passes and continuing three or four times 
a day thereafter. 

*Compound tincture of myrrh is made after this formula : 

Alcohol, 1 gal. 

Myrrh, 1 lb. 

Capsicum, 1 oz. 

Let stand twenty days and filter. 

Very frequently the tinctures of myrrh and capsicum are 
substituted. A competent druggist should prepare all prescrip- 
tions with which the parties desiring them are not familiar. 

It occasionally happens that a druggist becomes rebellious 
and refuses to fill unless endorsed by some doctor, in such 
cases, drugs, the sale of which is not prohibited by law, can 
be purchased of almost any well regulated diug store and 
prepared by the user. 

Ague-Cake — This is an enlargement of the spleen, the 
effect of protracted ague. The size of the spleen varies very 
greatly in these cases, sometimes increased to twice its original 
size, at others enlarged so as to occupy the greater part of 
the left side of the abdomen. 

In these cases there is a feeling of weight, tension and 
distress, in consequence, the patient is frequently unable to 
take as much exercise as his health otherwise would per- 
mit. 

Treatment — If there is a fever the sedatives are used ac- 
cording to indications. Small pulse calls for aconite, a full 
pulse indicates veratrum viride. Pulse, sharp stroke, frontal 
pain, tongue showing a peculiar red and prominently, small 
elevated pimples on the upper surface, indicates rhustox. If 
dull, stupid and inclined to sleep, belladonna should -be given; 
if irritable and restless, gelsemium. 

Uvedalia (Bear's foot) is the remedy for enlarged spleen 
or ague-cake. Given in 5 to 15 drop doses every two to 
three hours, and the abdomen, and especially over the spleen, 
thoroughly rubbed on, using a hot iron to bake in the uvedalia 
ointment, made as follows: 

Polymnia Uvedalia, 1 lb., of the dried root or 4 ozs. of 
the green root: 1 lb hog's lard; if the dry root is used, add 
a pint of water. 



THEREFLECTOR 137 

Mix. Place over a slow fire till all the water is evaporated; 
strain and press out all the ointment. Water will not be needed 
in the, preparation of the gieen root. 

If there is any one thing certain in medicine, it is that 
this treatment exerts a direct influence upon the spleen. 

Some cases are benefited by quinine given in one-grain 
doses every one or two hours. 

Anemia — This is a deficiency or poverty of the blood and 
caused by the loss of blood from any cause, or from a depri- 
vation of the proper materials necessary for the formation 
of healthy blood on account of improper digestion or from 
other unavoidable causes. A person afflicted with anemia is 
pale and the lips, tongue and inside of the mouth have a 
bleached appearance and the skin has a wax or sallowish 
look. The temperature is generally sub-normal.. 

Treatment — In looking over the patient we will discover 
a defect in blood production and a perverted circulation. The 
first indicates a deficiency of iron, so we will just return 
to the treatment for chill and prepare the iron tonic 
as there given, leaving out or giving as desired, the Fowler 
Solution, and give as there directed. 

About a dozen or two of old rusty nails put in a pint 
of good strong apple vingear and in a few days after, give 
from a teaspoonful to tablespoonful before meals in plenty of 
water. 

Sulphate of quinine or tincture of nux vomica, one grain 
of the former or one to five drops of the latter, may be given 
every two to three hours. The bowels and kidneys should be 
kept in working order and hot baths should be given once 
every day or every other day according to strength of patient. 
Thorough rubbing is very essential. 

Apoplexy — This is a disease caused by a rupture or con- 
gestion of some blood vessels of the brain, which produces a 
sudden arrest of sensation and motion, the person lying as if 
in a deep sleep. It seldom attacks the young, but occurs in 
middle life or old age. The persons most likely to be attacked 
with apoplexy, are those whose ancestors have suffered from 
it. Those who have habits which predispose them to an at- 
tack, such as high living, with protuberant abdomen, large 
heads, short, thick necks and generally a flushed countenance ; 



138 THEREFLECTOR 

those of a sedentary habit, who are more than forty-five or 
fifty years of age and those addicted to excessive use of 
intoxicants. 

Symptoms — There are usually some symptoms which pre- 
cede an attack, which, if properly understood by the patient, 
should put him on his guard and he should take measures at 
once to avert the attack. Among the symptoms which are 
the most important, are giddiness, especially on stooping, a 
feeling of weight in the head with a sense of fullness tempor- 
ary deafness and noises in the ears, double vision or transient 
blindness, headache, loss of memory, a feeling of numbness 
in the limbs, drowsiness, with indistinctness of articulation. 

Treatment — This is a disease in which a physician should 
be sought and no time should be lost in him taking charge of 
the case. In the absence of the physician, the first indication 
is to relieve the head of the accumulated blood to prevent fur- 
ther congestion and to obviate inflammatory action ; to accom- 
plish this, raise the head well up and apply cold by means of 
broken ice in a rubber or silk bag ; loosen all the clothing, 
especially necktie and shirt collar; apply heat to the feet and 
induce a flow of blood to the lower extremeties and give a 
heaping teaspoonful of Epsom salts and wash out bowels with 
plenty of warm water and the use of a fountain syringe. 

The patient should have plenty of air, as the respiration 
is now the essential function. In some cases there are premoni- 
tory symptoms which should be given preventive treatment. 
A heavily coated tongue, dirty mouth, and fetid breath, are 
not uncommon and a pallid, dirty, or ashy color shows the 
blood needs to be replenished with an alkaline salt, therefore 
it calls for sulphite of soda from five to thirty grains, well 
diluted in water, every three or four hours. A little salt added 
would be beneficial. If not pallid, dissolve 20 grains 
salicylic acid and 2 drams of acetate of potash in 
4 ounces of water; give a teaspoonful every three 
hours. Congestion, marked by dullness of intellect, inclination 
to sleep, and an expressionless eye, should be treated with 
belladonna and ergot; given ergot from five to thirty drops 
and belladonna from one to five drops every one to three 
hours. If the belladonna should flush the face and dry the 
mouth, the dose should be reduced. Where the face is already 



THEREFLECTOR 139 

flushed and the pulsation of the carotids full, thurapiug on 
the sides of the neck, pulse full and hard, we have an obstruct- 
ed circulation and it must be relieved. Gelsemium, I/2 to 1 dr. ; 
veiatrum viride, 10 drops; water, 4 ozs. A teaspoonful every 
one or two hours. Medicine can scarcely be given during the 
attack, owing to the paralysis of the muscles of deglutition, 
and when they can be given, it is usually best to wait a few 
hours and in the meanwhile stimulant applications may be 
made to the extremities and the patient should be placed on 
a lounge or hard bed, turned on his side with face well over 
in order to keep his tongue from dropping back so far as to 
produce stertorous breathing. Where a dull pain in the head is 
complained of with ringing in the ears, iodide of ammonia, 
2 to 10 grains, well dissolved in water and given every three 
hours will give relief. The bowels should be kept in a good 
condition and the system well fortified with tonics and a nutri- 
tious diet. 

Apthae — This is a disease of childhood and generally 
makes its appearance at about one year old. It is commonly 
known as thrush, muguet, sprue, white mouth. It is an inflam- 
mation of the mucous membrane of the mouth, characterized 
by pain, disorders of digestion and of the bowels. The develop- 
ment of the thrush-fungus is promoted by all those conditions 
designated as unhygienic and debilitated conditions of the 
system, and by neglect to rinse the mouth after nursing or 
bottle feeding. 

Symptoms— The mucous membrane of the mouth assumes 
a dark red appearance in isolated patches ; on which whitish 
points appear, which rapidly spread into larger areas. They 
closely resemble curdled milk, from their soft consistency. 
These whitish points consist of epithelium and fat, in whicli 
are embedded the sporules and filaments of the fungus. The 
deposits first appear about the angles of the mouth, soon ex- 
tending to all parts of the cavity, and often involving the 
entire alimentary tract. The mouth is usually swollen and 
tender, the breath often fetid. Pain, aggravated by nursing 
or chewing. The lips are swollen, the saliva is increased ; an 
elevation of temperature, frequent diarrhoea, stools green and 
sour, causing a redness of the buttock. 



140 THEREFLECTOR 

Treatment. — While this disease is not considered very fatal 
it none the less requires attention. Many kinds of treatment 
have been devised and frequently administered, like other 
things, in a haphazard way. Cleanliness, next to Godliness, 
is of the utmost importance and antiseptic treatment instituted. 
If there is fever, to a half glass of water add three to four 
drops of aconite and 5 to 6 drops of Phytolacca (common 
tincture) and give a teaspoonful every one or two hours. • 
Mouth may be washed with a solution of boracic acid three 
times a day; borated soda, 1 dr.; glycerine, 2 drs. ; water 6 drs. 
Mix. Wash mouth 4 or 5 times a day. 

A saturated solution of sulphite of soda, or given dry 
every two or three hours, in 3 to 10 drops will act kindly. 
Chlorate of potash, used internally and as a wash, in three- 
grain doses every four hours acts well. 

Borax is a good remedy in all cases. Where there is sepsis, 
the face looking like it had been chilled from cold, producing 
a purplish color, give baptisia (wild indigo) from 1 to 5 drops, 
according to age, three or four times a day. 

Asthma — When a person afflicted with this disease is 
seen by anyone not accustomed to it, can readily see that 
patient breathes with difficulty. This disease is described as 
^ paroxysmal spasmodic contraction of the muscular layer 
surrounding the bronchial tubes; characterized by spasmodic 
attacks of great dyspnoea, continuing usually for several hours. 
It is the result of local disturbances of the nervous system ; 
may be hereditary ; pressure on the pneumogastric nerve, car- 
diac disease ; catarrh of the stomach ; constipation, uterine or 
liver, climate, inhalation of various substances, as ipecac, tur- 
pentine, irritating dusts ; emotional excitement. 

Symptoms — The paroxysm begins, in a majority of cases, 
in the early morning hours or during the afternoon, with a 
feeling of anguish and constriction in the chest and an intense 
desire for air. The breathing is accompanied with loud wheez- 
ing, the face is flushed, at times even cyanosed and bathed 
in perspiration, the eyes stare, the eyeballs protrude, the mus- 
cles of the neck become prominent as they aid in the effort 
for air. The dysponea soon becomes so severe that the in- 
spiration is but a gasp, the lips are pallid, cyanosis becomes 
greater and the patient feels as if death were impending. 



THEREFLECTOR 141 

After a few minutes or hours, the respiration becomes easier^ 
more air enters the lungs, the cyanosis disappears and grad- 
ually the paroxysm ceases, the patient feeling exhausted and 
the chest fatigued. During the paroxysm, there is a short, dry 
cough, the expectoration consisting of white mucus, at times 
streaked with blood or a profuse water mucus, instead 
of single paroxysms, slight remissions may occur at intervals 
of one, two or three hours, to be followed by other paroxysms 
lasting from four to six hours, continuing for a week or two, 
preventing the patient lying down or taking food. 

Asthma, in itself, is not considered fatal, but if the parox- 
ysms are frequently repeated there results either an enlarge- 
ment of the air cells and dilation of the heart, followed with 
dropsy, or cerebral hemorrhage; thus resulting in a paralytic 
stroke or almost instant death. 

Treatment — Remedies for this distressing disease have 
found ready sale and they have gained a notable place among: 
advertisers who filch the public on the free treatment or no 
cure no pay plan. The treatment is pallative and permanent. 
The pallative is to administer such treatment as will give in- 
stant or temporary relief. To relieve the paroxysm, no medi- 
cine is so effective as the hpodermic injection of sulph. 
morphia, gr. one-sixth to one-fourth, combined with sulph. 
atropia, gr. one-one hundred twentieth. Chloral, gr. 10, re- 
peated every thirty minutes, where there is no heart compli- 
cation, is often effective ; drinking strong, hot, black coffee is; 
often effective ; inhalation of chloroform, ether, amyl nitrate 
and nauseants are sometimes used effectively. Lobelia in one 
to three drop doses every one to three hours, is the remedy for 
children ; the roots of the milk-weed, 8 ozs. to a pint of alcohol^ 
let stand a day or two. then given in tablespoonful doses has 
given fine results, taken before meals. A certain mail order 
establishment has accumulated a nice fortune off a formula 
which has been published in several medical journals and pre- 
scribed by a great many physicians with, as they claim, won- 
derful results. The formula, as given, is as follows: 
Prescription. 

Iodide of ammonia, 2 drs. 

Fl. ext. grindelia robusta, 4 drs. 

Fl. ext. of glycyrrhiza globra, 4 drs. 



142 THEREFLECTOR 

Tinet. lobelia, 2 drs. 

Tinct. belladonna, 2 drs. 

Syrup tolu, sufficient for -4 ozs. 

Dose — Teaspoonful three times a day ; extra doses during 
a paroxysm. 

I have had such fine results with the use of ambiosia 
(ragweed) that I have had no occasion to use anything elsu. 

Ambrosia, 2 parts to Pulsatilla, 1 part, given from six to 
ten drops, three or four times a day. Fifteen drops of ambrosia 
has given relief in a few minutes, after it was taken, there- 
fore, making the use of the hypodermic of no avail. 

The drugs here used should be of the highest quality. Good 
grain alcohol, when used as the base for extraction of medi- 
cinal properties, is used in proportion of 8 ozs. of the plant 
(here meant leaves, stems, roots or barks) to one pint; let 
stand from ten to fourteen days, when it will be ready for 
use. 

Chloral hydrate, 1/2 oz. ; potassium bromide, I/2 oz. ; pure 
water, sufficient to make 4 ozs. Mix. 

Sig. : Teaspoonful every three hours. May double quan- 
tity, if necessary. Apomorphia 1-10 gr. every three or four 
hours or 12 tablets of 1-10 gr. added to 4 ozs. of water and given 
in teaspoonful doses every one or two hours has given good 
results. 

BITES OF SERPENTS, POISONOUS STINGS. 

Bites of serpents, dogs and insects and stings of the hornet, 
bee, yellow jacket and the like are generally handled without 
much trouble in most cases. The history is usually plain and 
their symptoms very marked; so there is little danger of mis- 
taking the character of injury. The symptoms from the bite 
of a poisonous serpent are manifest in a short time. The 
patient is prostrate, pale and listless, cold perspiration; the 
pulse small, rapid and fluttering, with drowsiness and a disin- 
clination to answer questions. The part bitten usually swells 
rapidly and becomes bluish discolored. All the symptoms 
are those of prostration and the poison may be regarded as 
a depressent and at the same time a blood poison, setting up 
a process of decomposition. The poison of the sting of the 
bee, wasp, hornet, and others of like species, is somewhat sim- 
ilar in kind, though in much less degree. Some persons are 



THEREFLECTOR 14a 

more susceptible to the poison than others. The nervous sys- 
tem becomes depressed and as the poison advances in its 
severity the patient experiences difficult breathing and a gen- 
eral sense of prostration. 

Treatment — For stings of insects, moistened tobacco gives 
relief ; an onion cut in slits and applied frequently acts nicely ; 
v^ash blue has a nice effect on stings of all kinds. Spirits of 
camphor and epsom salts applied locally answers well ; a solu- 
tion of permanganate of potash, 1 gr. to 1 oz. of water is good. 
In snake bites, it is commonly recommended to cord the limb 
between the bite and the heart, or just above the wound. The 
wound if recent, should be freely incised so the blood may 
escape and assist in washing out the poison. The part bathed 
in a mild solution of carbolic acid and water has a good 
effect. The patient should be given carbonate of ammonia 
from 5 to 10 grs. and brandy or whiskey as may be required. 
If echinacea augustifolia is given in 20 to 30 drop doses, or 
baptesia tinctorum in dram doses, the poison will be speedily 
overcome, if seen in a reasonable time after the occurrence. 

Arsenic, Fowler's Solution, 1 to 5 drops every four hours,, 
well diluted with water, has acted nicely, but, if it should 
cause swelling at any time, it should be discontinued till all 
puffiness is gone, when it could be resumed and given in less 
quantity. Sulphite of soda can be given in 10-grain doses ■ 
every two hours, with any of the local applications here given,^ 
will suffice. 

Billious Fever — This disease is known in different localities 
by different names, such as billions remittent, marsh or typho- 
malarial fever. It differs from intermittent, in that it con- 
sists of but one perfect revolution of the disease, the hot stage 
being greatly prolonged, but showing well marked remissions 
and changes in the range of the degrees of temperature. 

Like common chills and fever it is believed to be caused 
by what is generally termed marsh malaria, though there is 
no doubt but that sudden atmospheric vicissitudes and changes 
of temperature, by arresting secretion, impairing nutrition 
and lessening the vital power of the individual, may form a 
cause of the disease. It occurs usually in the fall, however,, 
many cases develop during the summer and even the entire 
year. It also differs considerably in its character, being mild 



144 THEREFLECTOR 

iu high and temperate regions and severe in low, marshy and 
warm countries. 

Symptoms — The onset usually occupies several days, 
slowly developing, the patient complaining of feeling bad, 
sluggish, headache, coated tongue, bowels out of order and 
feverish. 

At first there is nothing but weariness, especially upon 
slight exertion. The languor increases and Is accompanied 
with listlessness, or indisposition to make any exertion; the 
appetite becomes changeable from one condition to another; 
bad taste in mouth, tendency to nausea, with, sometimes, vomit- 
ing, dry skin, with frequently pain in back and limbs. The 
attack is sometimes ushered in by a well marked chill or rigor, 
<ilosely resembling the cold stage of an intermittent. The 
chill is frequently very slight, and again, merely a sense of 
.coldness; or slight chilly sensations pass over the body, or 
the tip of one ear, one finger or some certain portion of 
the body will experience a change from a natural to a colder 
state, after which, it is followed by a rise of temperature, 
which alternate, the chill becoming less and less marked, 
until finally, febiile action is set up. The cold stage usually 
lasts but a short time, one or two hours, l)ut is occasionally 
protracted. When reaction sets in the pain in the back, head 
and limbs increases, being in some cases extremely severe. 
The skin becomes hot, showing temperature has greatly in- 
creased, the face becoming flushed and turgid, and the eyes 
suffused. The pulse shows increased fullness and frequency 
and the respiration hurried and uneven. The tongue is cov- 
ered with a yellowish-white coat ; frequently a disagreeable 
taste in the mouth and more or less nausea, with oppression 
in the region of the stomach, and, in many instances, severe 
/and protracted vomiting of billions matter. The secretions 
are checked, bowels eaustive, urine scanty and highly colored, 
■sometimes loaded with bile which gives it a yellow tinge. 
The nervous system, in many instances, is considerably de- 
ranged, the patient being watchful and very restless. These 
symptoms continue from eight to twelve hours or may be con- 
tinued for twenty-four, when they gradually abate ; the heat 
of the surface is diminished, with frequently, slight perspi- 
ration about the neck and face ; the pulse are not so frequent ; 



THEREFLECTOR 145 

the pain in the head and back ceases, and the patient feels 
compaitiveJy comfortable and sometimes falls into a refresh- 
ing sleep. This constitutes what is known as a remission, 
which occurs once in twenty-four hours; the period appearing 
usually of a morning, though in some cases there are two 
remissions the same day ; in others a more complete remission 
occurs every second or third day. In many cases the duration, 
remission and completion varies greatly in different persons. 
In some it is long and amounts almost to an intermission ; 
in others it is short, and the fever but slightly abated. Fol- 
lowing it, the tever appears with all the tirst intensity and 
the hot stage continues to the end of the disease. In some 
cases, w^e do not observe much change in the character of the 
fever except it becomes more intense as it progresses, while 
in others the remissions are shorter and less noticeable, until 
finally, the Fever is nearly or quite continuous. The irritation 
of the stomach often continues for two, three or four days; 
in some cases, it is troublesome throughout the course of 
the disease. As the disease progresses the patient's strength 
wanes day by day, the nervous system becoming more exhausted 
until by the seventh or eight day we find him in one of two 
conditions. The fever having lost its original form has become 
a continued fever with typhoid symptoms. 

The patient's strength having become greatly exhausted, 
we observe a lack of reactive power; there is a tendency to 
congestion during the remission, at which time the surface 
heeomes cool, sometimes covered with clammy sweat ; the 
pulse small, w^eak and jerky; the breathing short, quick and 
difficult; coma sets in; the patient lies upon his back, slips 
towards the foot of the bed ; picks at the bedclothes, and after 
one or more unsuccessful attempts at reaction, the patient dies. 
In this short duration, the fever terminating fatally as re- 
mittent ; this is a rare termination, for if it is not checked in 
a week or so, it assumes a continuous form, and presents all 
the symptoms of continued fever. The disease is more intense 
in very warm and sultry regions. 

The temperature in a case of remittent fever ranges 99^ 
to 108 degrees or very rarely to 110 degrees. The fever of a 
very high degree is not so dangerous, if remission can be 
•secured in a few minutes after it reaches its highest point. 



146 THEREFLECTOR 

otherwise, active congestion begins and the patient succumbs 
before reaction sets in. If the thermometer shows an increase 
of temperature, in the morning range of 101, 102, 103V2 up to 
104 or 105, the case is severe and stubborn. Complications may 
arise and render treatment very difficult. Irritation of the 
stomach and some adjacent organs are the most frequently 
involved; nausea and vomiting, soreness in the region of the 
stomach with a feeling of insufferable oppression. Brain com- 
plications are met with in severe cases. The disease is gen- 
erally viewed with a favorable recovery. 

Treatment — The first thing to attract our attention is 
the condition of the stomach and bowels. If there is constant 
nausea and a heavily coated tongue, the treatment should 
be begun by relieving the stomach by giving a dose of com- 
pound powder of libelia and capsicum. If the tongue is red 
at tip and edges, the irritation must be quieted by giving an 
infusion of peach tree leaves or bark ; if colicky pains, dios- 
corea in hot water, 10 to 15 drops every 20 to 30 minutes acts 
kindly. Sometimes a mustard plaster placed over the region 
of the stomach or a strip two or three inches wide and eight 
or ten inches long applied to the spine, beginning just below 
the hair and extending full length down the back has relieved, 
when other things have failed. Sipping cold water like hot 
coffee has acted well. The next indication is to reduce the 
fever. Thus we will give aconite 5 to 10 drops and veratrura 
viride ten to twenty drops and water four ounces. Mix, 
give a teaspoonful every two hours or every half to every 
hour if fever is high. Hot water and a fan can be used to 
a great advantage by placing patient on a cloth of some kind 
to protect the bed clothing and as one person applies the 
water another may use a fan making a light current of air. 
As the patient becomes chilly, the application should cease 
and cover placed over the patient. The fever will appear again 
in a few minutes, when the application should be repeated 
and alternate the treatment until fever cools. Where the 
fever runs above 105 and as high as 106.7 degrees, the ice 
pack will be serviceable. The kidneys can be kept in good 
condition by giving a piece of saltpeter, about the size of a 
bean, well diluted in water, every three hours; or may use 



THEREFLECTOR 147 

fifteen grains of acetate of potash, well diluted with water, 
every four hours. 

Aconite or veratrum should be given during the fever 
which will be about as long as the disease will last. When 
the fever reaches a periodicity, small doses of quinine, 1 or 2 
grains every one or two hours. Belladonna or gelseniiurn 
should be added to sedative according to indications; bella- 
donna, if the patient is dull and a tendency to doze, pupils 
are large or do not conract readily on exposure to light. If 
those expressions appear at the beginning of the disease, there 
will be a low muttering delirium or coma by the end of tha 
first week, if patient is not nursed and treated very closely, 
and as a corrsequence, we have a class of symptoms known as 
typhoid. The conditions resulting from bad treatment in 
simple cases. Gelseirrium is indicated where there is flusheA 
face, bright eyes and contracted pupils and heavy pulsation 
of the carotids. It is given with aconite or veratrum from 
10 to 20 drops of gelsemium to 5 or 10 drops of aconite in a 
cup, half or two-thirds full of water to be administered in 
teaspoonful doses every one or two hours ; if veratrum is 
given in place of aconite, 10 to 20 drops to same quantit^^ 
of water. A four- ounce bottle could be used as a measure 
and the treatment be more certain and a more correct method 
used in the administration of remedies. Some cases call for 
acids, especially wherr indicated by a dark red tongue, we 
need muriatic, but if it exhibits a purplish hue, nitric acid 
given in w^ater w^ell diluted, or suffcient to taste, every three 
or four hours. In sorrre cases we see a pallid tongue, with 
dirty or ashy coat, indicating sulphite of soda, w^hich should be 
given from 5 to 10 grain doses every three hours. 

Heavy purgatives should be avoided and only stimulative 
remedies be administered in this as well as other diseases of 
same charatcer. Podophyllum one-half to a teaspoonful added 
to 4 ozs. of water and a teaspoonful. given every three or four 
hours of this solution, will give better results than heroic drug- 
ging, as is too commonly practiced. The mild medication is 
the best for the patient. Odors arising from the body can 
be eradicated by bathing the patient with warm water and 
twenty or thirty drops of carbolic acid to the gallon, or for 
foul breath, it can be administered in proportion to 4 ozs. of 



148 THEREFLECTOR 

water and 10 or 15 drops of carbolic acid. Mix, give a tea- 
spoonful every three or four hours. 

Where there is a great restlessness, an opiate is frequently 
of the greatest importance. Upium, 1 gr., or the tincture,, 
(laudanum) 5 to lU drops, every tliree or four houis or sutti- 
cient to produce rest. Tne skni should be moist, soft and cool. 
Sometimes Dover's powder, which is a compound ol 
ipecac and opium, and in some nistances acts kindly, given 
from 5 to 10 grains, every three or four hours, bleep and rest 
are essential features in all cases and it is one rule that 
should be rigidly followed and that is that the patient be un- 
molested during the hours of sleep. Rest is the greatest health 
restorer. 

Bleeding- from the Lungs. — It is very seldom that hemor- 
rhage from the lungs occur, except as the result of tubercular 
deposit, and though frequently passed as of but little impor- 
tance ; yet it forebodes serious trouble and should call at- 
tention to the fact that it is not necessarily the rupture of a 
blood vessel. It is an increase in or an abnormal fullness of 
the capillaries of the air cells; active congestion when the 
result of an accelerated circulation producing arterial tension 
and bright red blood ; passive congestion when caused by an 
impeded outflow from the capillaries producing venous 
blood. The causes may arise from increased heart's action; 
over-exertion, alcoholic excess, mental excitement, inhalation 
of cold or hot air. The passive condition results from obstruc- 
tion to the return circulation ; dilated or enlarged heart, valvu- 
lar diseases; low fevers. Bright 's disease of the kidireys. 

The bleeding from the lungs may be known by the bright, 
florid look of the blood, being frothy and raised by act of 
coughing. In some cases, it is swallowed, or simply runs down 
the throat and coagulates in the stomach and is removed by 
vomitting; the oppression of the chest, cough, dyspnoea and 
earlier appearances of the blood will determine its source. 
Bleeding from the posterior nares is more frequently mis- 
taken for bronchial hemorrhage, but the dark color of the 
blood, the absence of air in it, the feeling of warmth back of 
the palate and its being removed by hawking, is sufficient 
to show that the trouble is not in the lungs. 



THERE F LECTOR 149 

A favorable termination may be expected, so far as the 
hemorrhage is concerned, but unfavorable as regards per- 
manent recovery. The greater the hemorrhage the more speedy 
the danger. The conditions are very unfavorable when com- 
plicated with heart disease. 

Treatment — The patient should be placed in a quiet, 
cool place, liead and shoulders elevated, and all physical and 
mental excitement avoided. But few persons should be per- 
mitted in the room. If the feet are ccol, a hot mustard foot 
bath is very beneficial and the warmth continued by the use 
of a jug of hot water. Give half a teaspoonful of table salt 
and a little grated nutmeg added will check the bleeding, if 
given every half hour. The difference between an active and 
passive hemorrhage must be noted and treatment administered 
accordingly. Where the blood is red alid freely pas,sing, 
we would readily understand to slow down the pump. Our 
first attention would be called to veratrum 15 drops and 4 
ounces of water and give a teaspoonful every fifteen minutes 
for three doses, then every half hour until the desired in- 
fluence is obtained. Small doses, of ipecac given on a little 
sugar every two to four hours, is a good preventive. The oil 
of erigeron in six to eight drop doses or added to the oil of 
cinnamon, if not too irritating equal parts given every 20 or 
30 minutes on a little sugar is generally sufficient. Alum, in 
doses from 2 to 5 grains, with gum tragacauth, every half hour, 
has been given with advantage, epsom salts, one fourth tea- 
spoonful, with a little sulphurous acid added and dissolved 
in a little water. Gallic acid given in 10 to 15 grain doses 
every one, two or three hours, according to the urgency of 
the symptoms. If the bleeding is excessive, the dose should 
be doubled in order to control the bleeding as speedily as 
possible. A decoction of arbor vitae has given good results 
in some cases, drank a few swallows at a time and given 
sufficient control. If blood is venous hemamalis, 2 to 10 
drops repeated according to urgency of the symptoms. Char- 
coal will arrest the bleeding and as it is harmless, it may be 
given in any quantity. The kind mostly used is made from 
burning of the white willow. Most any kind will be sufficient. 
After the hemorrhage is checked, the patient should be placed 
on the tincture of copper, 10 drops to 4 ozs. of water and given 



150 THEREFLECTOR 

in teaspoonful doses every three or four hours. The patient 
sliould be kept quiet for some time after the hemorrhage has 
ceased and treatment adopted to counteract tlie ill effects o£ 
the loss of blood. The administration of tonics, stimulants, 
iron, fresh air, light exercise, change of scene, a nutritious 
diet are some of the essential elements necessary to continuous 
treatment. Elecampane root, as much as can be held between 
tnumb and forefinger, put in a quart of water and simmer 
down to a pint, strain and replace in same or other clean 
vessel and add one pint of honey, simmer down to a pint, or 
pint and a half, remove from fire and when nearly cool, add a 
piece of alum the size of a small marble. A teaspoonful every 
two or three hours. This is beyond question one of the best 
cough remedies, for lung trouble, extant. 

Bleeding From the Nose. — This is a condition of child- 
hood and is seldom troublesome except in some cases where 
it comes on during the progress of some disease. When it 
occurs in advanced life, it often gives rise to much anxiety. 

Treatment — Raise one or both arms above the head and 
hold them in that position for some time ; if that fails, apply 
a cold pack to back of neck, letting the application extend 
down the back, if thought best, or cold water or ice may 
be applied directly over the forehead and nose. The nostrils 
may be swabbed with muriated tincture of iron 1 oz., water 4 
ozs., m^ixed. Apply as often as necessary or may saturate some 
absorbent cotton, running a string through it so it can be 
extracted, and plugging the cavity; alum may answer every 
purpose used in saturated solution. 

If there be a tendency to apoplexy, or if the patient has 
heart disease, the bleeding may be of benefit, if not too pro- 
fuse. Ergot is considered beneficial either locally or inter- 
nally given in ten to twenty drop doses. Plugging the nose 
with oiled silk, or cording the left arm near shoulder has been 
considered effective. 

Bleeding From the Stomach — In bleeding from the stomach 
the blood is vomited up instead of being raised by coughing 
and is usually of a dark color and may be mixed with the 
food and is not frothy as when it comes from the lungs. In 
some cases the blood may pass into the intestines. Some cases 
result from congestion of liver or spleen ; ulceration of stom- 



THEREFLECTOR 151 

ach ; cancer of stomach ; hemorrhagic malarial fever ; men- 
strual period. 

Treatment — AVhere the vomiting is excessive, a hypoder- 
mic injection of morphine, one-fourth or one-sixth grain, com- 
bined with atropine, 1-150 gr.. or ergot in 10 to 20 drops; 
muriate tincture of iron 1 to 5 drop doses well diluted, given 
by mouth, every half to every hour, according to urgency of 
s^anptoms. Ice applied over stomach and along the spine 
Epsom salts or other mild purgative should be given, as soon 
as the patient is strong enough, to clear the bowels of all 
offending material. 

If the patient should be prostrated, give an injection of 
beef tea with a spoonful or two of brandy and one grain of 
pulverized opium or 20 or 30 drops of the tincture. 

Turpentine given in 10 to 20 drops and some recommend 
giving as high as 30, is a topical remed}^ if the patient is 
not affected by it in other ways. No food should be allowed 
for several days by the stomach ; the patient being nourished 
by rectal almentation. 

A little tincture of guaiac should be given three or four 
times a day and as soon as the stomach becomes strong enough- 
beef tea or other fluid nutritious diet might be given, con- 
tinuing the guaiac before each meal. 

Bleeding From the Urinary Organs. — Hemorrhage of the 
kidneys is not a very common occurrence, but may take place 
as the result of an external injury, especially falls, or blows 
upon the loins, from inflammation or it may be a symptom 
of other diseases. It is sometimes brought on as the result 
of a strain from jumping, lifting or riding horseback. 

Treatment — Should the hemorrhage be active, as would 
be shown by a full flowing pulse, the first thing to do is to 
slow up the pump or heart ; veratrum from 1 to 10 drop doges 
every half to every hour. 

Veratrum sometimes causes neausea or vomiting, but the 
pulse is generally lowered before this occurs. Gallic acid may 
be given in doses of 5 grains every hour or two, or, if the 
hemorrhage is severe, every 15 or 30 minutes. 

If there is much nausea, irritation of the stomach, an in- 
fusion of peach leaves, or bark, will be found an admirablp 
remedy. Turpentine from 10 to 30 drops is especially recom- 



152 THEREFLECTOR 

mended by some as being very good. If patient sliows in- 
clination toward prostration, stimulant applications should be 
applied. Cloths wrung out of hot mustard water and applied 
to the lower extremities; brandy may be given in small quan- 
tities, if it seems necessary; carbonate of ammonia should be 
given in 5 to 10 gr. doses sufficient to keep the pulse as nearly 
natural as possible. 

When considerable irritation exists, small doses of santonin 
triturated with white sugar, given every one or two hours is 
beneficial. 

Gallic acid 20 grains, aromatic sulpuric acid, 15 drops ; 
tincture of cinnamon, two tablespoonsfuls ; water, three table- 
spoonful; mix and take all at one dose and repeat this every 
four hours until the bleeding stops. 

Boils — This is a condition of the system in which nearly 
all persons are familiar and needs but little description. It 
is a common saying that boils are the result of bad blood. 
The cause of bad blood is a failure on the part of some of 
the emunstories in the elimination of some morbid material, 
which the system has been accumulating faster than it could 
be eliminated. The kidneys are the principal source of the 
trouble and any treatment that will restore normal activity 
is the proper method to pursue. Should the condition of pa- 
tient show signs of defect in the alimentary canal or sluggish 
liver, their activity should be restored by the use of such 
remedies as iris, podopyllum or small doses of epsom salts. 

Treatment — I have never had any occasion to use more 
than one line of treatment and, as success was the thing mostly 
desired, acetate of potassium had never failed. 

Given in 15-grain doses, dissolved in about one-third tea- 
cupful of water every three or four hours, is generally suffi- 
cient to destroy the cause that produces the boil. The dose for 
children should be in proportion to age. 

Brain Fever — This disease is the result of an abnormal 
fullness of the capillaries of the brain ; active, when arterial 
fullness, and is called active congestion ; passive congestion, 
when venous fullness ; characterized by headache, vertigo, and 
of the congestion be very great, convulsions. 

Ca;uses — Tn active congestion, there may he increased 
heart action, the result of enlargement of left side of the 



THEREFLECTOR 153 

heart; general plethora; excesses in eating and drinking; 
alcoholism; sun stroke; prolonged mental labor; diminished 
amount of arterial blood in other parts of the body, the result 
of the compression of the abdominal aoita; ligation q1' a 
large artery, and the suppression of habitual bleeding pile-i 
are examples. 

Passive congestion is the result of dilation of the right 
side of the heart; pressure upon the veins returning the cere- 
bral blood. 

Symptoms — An overflow of blood to the head; an over- 
enlargement of the blood vessels. The onset may be gradual 
or sudden, the patient's condition being aggravated in a re- 
clining position. Headache, with paroxysmal neuralgic daits, 
blunting of vision and hearing, buzzing in the ears and sparks 
before the eyes, contracted pupils, swimming or dizziness, dull- 
ness of intellect, inability to concentrate the mind; the face is 
red; the eyes congested and heavy pulsating carotids. The 
sleep is disturbed by dreams and jerking of the limbs. If the 
attack be sudden, a rapid state of unconsciousness with muscu- 
lar relaxation, will quickly follow. Congestion in children 
often presents alarming symptoms, such as great restlessness, 
night terrors, gnashing of the teeth during the sleep, vomiting, 
contracting of pupils followed by general convulsions. Any 
or all of these symptoms may continue more or less marked 
from one or two hours to a day, the child enjoying its usual 
health, after a sound sleep, except the manifestation of some 
fatigue. 

Mild cases terminate favorably in a. few hours to a day 
or two, but show a strong tendency to recur. Severe cases may 
terminate in health, but usually foretell cerebral hemorrhage. 
Treatment — The patient should be treated according to the 
development of the fever, and the general treatment for an 
inflammation, must be followed. Coolness and calm judgment 
is one of the essential features in the treatment of this disease. 

After we collect our thoughts, we will look at the patient 
to see what peculiar changes, if any, have taken place. If 
we see a flushed face, bright, glossy eyes, the pupils con- 
tracted, increased heat of the head, carotids throbbing, with 
restlessness and inability to sleep, we would observe a full 
pulse and nervous excitement. 



154 THEREFLECTOR 

Thus, our patient, like a steam engine, has begun to 
quiver under the excessive heat. So we will notice the pulse 
to ascertain the range of temperature with a view of planning 
a rational line of treatment. So we will see the necessity of 
slowing the heart, to check the flow of blood to the brain; to 
quiet the nervous excitability. We will look at our drug list 
and we find that veratrum will slow the heart and reduce the 
pulse, so we will give veratrum, and gelsemium will quiet the 
nervous excitement, so we will prescribe gelsemium. Cold will 
contract the small blood vessels, therefore we will apply ice 
or cold cloth. This may be all the treatment required in most 
cases, but we will occasionally see a case in which an irritation 
of the bow-els are an evident cause of an increase of the brain 
lesion. Here an enema of compound powder of jalap and sena 
would be effective. Sometimes a mild cathartic is admissible, 
but would better be generally avoided. Then we have a case 
in which the tongue is coated at the base, the lower part of the 
face is expressionless, the pulse oppressed, and though the 
patient is very restless, the mind is dull. An emetic will re- 
lieve our trouble. Now we have a case of irritable stomach, in 
which medicine, drink or food is not tolerated and we must 
find means to quiet this irritation. Small doses of ipecac and 
aconite will generally suffice. Drinking fresh spring or well 
water in sips, like drinking hot tea or coffee, has proven suc- 
cessful and generally all the treatment necessary. 

In another case, in the early stage of the disease, the 
tongue will be broad, pallid, and dirty, showing an ashy ex- 
pression. Here sulphite of soda in 10 or 15 grain doses every 
three hours to an adult will clear the tongue by stopping fer- 
mentation and the accumulation of foul gasses. In a case of 
venous fullness, general fullness of tissue, broad, pallid or 
dirty-yellowish tongue, a little podophyllin added to the sul- 
phite of soda, in proportion of % grain of podophyllin to 10 
grains of sulphite of soda, is about an average for adult. In 
some cases of children, in the early stage, we find a small, 
jerky, sharp stroke of pulse, the skin contracted about the 
eyes, sudden jumping and throwing hands in sleep and often 
a sudden shrill cry during sleep, calls for 3 or 4 drops of rhus- 
tox (poison oak) in half glass of water and a teaspoonful 
given every three or four hours. Where the face is blanched, 



THEREFLECTOR 155 

patient sleeps with eves partly open, mouth dry, and it" a 
small child, will frequently act as if sucking its tongue, 1 to 3 
drops to half glass of water of belladonna and given every one 
to two hours in teaspoonful dose will give relief. The doses 
should be increased for an adult. We have at times a patient 
who complains of pain in the right side of the head, and we 
will notice the right cheek flushed, with a full vibratile pulse, 
which will be relieved by giving bryonia, 10 drops in a half 
glass of water, a teaspoonful of the mixture every hour. In 
malarial regions the disease assumes a periodicity, in w^hich 
case we would think of small doses of quinine given every 
three or four hours. Quinine should never be given in any 
other case. If a hemorrhage is thought to be in evidence, 
w^hich is shown by the appearance of coma, the patient's tongue 
giving the expression of thickness like one intoxicated on 
whisky or other intoxicants, belladonna or ergot shonld be 
given in the proportion of 20 drops of belladonna to half glass 
of water and given in teaspoonful doses ever}^ half to every 
hour until the face flushes or the mouth becomes dry, after 
which reduce the dose and lengthen time or ergot may be given 
in 20 drops every two or three hours. If there are convulsive 
movements, bromide of ammonia is suggested. If the eyelids 
show" oedema, or the feet swell, apocynum should be given. 
Should typhoid symptoms develop, the proper antiseptic be- 
comes an important remedy. The indication may be for sulph- 
ite of soda. Sulphurous acid, murriatic or nitric acid, bap- 
tisia. or chlorate of potash. When the acute symptoms pass 
off we may be able to give rest to the nervous system by the 
use of cactus, Pulsatilla or hyoscyamus administered in from 
1 to 5 drop doses every one to three hours. Brandy or other 
stimulant may be given in small quantities w^hen patient 
shows symptoms of exhaustion and increased to keep up h 
favorable influence. During convalescence, the patient should 
be managed with great care, all causes of excitement being 
avoided. Food should be carefully selected, such tonics being 
employed as will produce good digestion and blood-making. 
Excretion should be free and it is well to watch all functions 
until their normal condition is freely established. 

Break-Bone Fever — This is a disease known by different 
names in separate sections of the country. Some localities it is 



156 THEREFLECTOR 

known as dengue (pronounced dangay) ; in other places it is 
called nervous or neuralgic, and is the counterpart of what 
is commonly called la grippe. It is an acute, epidemic, febrile 
disease, consisting of two paroxysms of fever with an inter- 
mission. The first 'paroxysm is charaterized by high fever, 
distressing pains in the joints and muscles and in some cases 
a peculiar eruption. The second paroxysm is characterized 
by a milder fever, an eruption of different character, attended 
by intense itching and by some recurrence of the joint pains 
and debility in some cases. No specific cause is given for this 
disease, but is thought to be a peculiar condition of the atmos- 
phere which has some influence on its development. 

Symptoms — Sudden onset; fever 103 to 105 degrees, a 
severe headache, backache, severe aching and swelling of the 
joints and stiffness of the muscles, frequently nausea, vomit- 
ing, constipation and the appearance of a rash, resembling 
scarlatina, from which the disease has been mistaken for scar- 
latinal rheumatism. An intermission follows the first pa- 
roxysm in from a few hours to one or two days, when the sec- 
ond onset appears, but not so severe. It is at this time that the 
characteristic eruption appears and attended with intense 
itching, which continues for about two days, when desquama- 
tion occurs and convalescence is established, but prolonged by 
the debilitated condition of the patient. It generally termin- 
ates favorably in about eight days, but relapses are common. 
The eruption might lead to a mistaken idea of scarlet fever or 
measles were it not for the joint and muscular pains and the 
epidemic form of its development should assist to prevent 
error. 

Treatment — In this, as well as other diseases, we study the 
cause and the effect of disease development with the relation 
to drug action. Our attention will be fir.st called to the con- 
dition of the patient as to the range of the temperature. The 
pulse will be used as an index to the line of treatment to be 
adopted in conjunction with other bodily symptoms. If pulse 
are small and rapid with alternating hot and chilly sensations, 
we would prescribe aconite, and the bones ached or muscles 
felt as if they were squeezed in a vice, cimicifuga would be 
added in proportion of ten drops of each to half glass of water 
and given in teaspoonful doses every hour till fever and pain 



THERE FLECTOR 157 

were reduced. If pulse were full and carotids pulsing heavily, 
we would think of varatrum and gelsemium, given in propor- 
tions of 20 drops of gelsemium to 10 of varatrum added to half 
glass of water and administered in teaspoonful doses every 
hour. Belladonna is indicated in this disease more often than 
any other drug, and should be thought of in connection with 
bryonia, rhus tox, and other indicated remedies. If the tongue 
should be lieavily coated, ^n emetic of ipeca and lobelia might 
be given with a salutary effect. Sulphite of soda 10 or 15 
grains with 1-10 to 1-4 grain of podophyllin given every 3 or 
4: hours to counteract poisonous gases and to clear the alimen- 
tary canal. The bowels should be thoroughly emptied and 
the fever reduced b.y free diaj^horesis. The pains should be 
relieved by giving 5 grains of quinine and 1 grain of opium, 
in capsule, every three hours. The itching may be alleviated 
by carbolized water, carbolic acid 10 or 20 drops to the pint 
and applied at intervals. 

Bronchitis — An inflammation of the membrane lining the 
bronchial tubes of the larger, middle or third size ; character- 
ized by fever, substernal pain, oppression in breathing, and at 
first scanty, followed by more or less profuse expectoration. 
It is a disease most frequent in childhood, especially during the 
period of dentition, when there is a tendency to catarrh of the 
mucous membrane in general and of the bronchi in particular. 
Inhalation of irritants, such as dust, smoke and air, too hot or 
too cold. More common in climates characterized by consid- 
erable moisture of the atmosphere combined wnth a low tem- 
perature and especially where there are sudden and marked 
variations. After a few days the expectoration becomes of a 
yellow color, and as a result of hyperaemia, rupture of the 
capillaries of the mucous membrane frequently occurs when 
the slight expectoration of the first stage is streaked with 
blood. In scrofulous patients, the bronchial glands participate 
in the inflammation, they become swollen and filled with se- 
cretion, and not unfrequently the glands undergo a hyperpla- 
sia and finally the appearance of a cheesy substance, showing 
a degeneration and breaking down of tissue. 

Symptoms — The chief symptoms consists of fever, hurried 
breathing with a sense of tightness about the chest, the pa- 
tient feeling chillv, followed br flushes of heat, increased se- 



158 THEREFLECTOR 

eretion from the nose, dry skin, constipation of the bowels and 
headache. This affection commences as a common cold, with 
a hard, dry cough, more or less hoarseness, is soon developed j 
a sense of .dryness and roughness cause frequent attempts to 
clear the throat, which seems to be rendered much worse by 
tickling in the fauces. The voice is frequently hoarse ; a sense 
of tightness and constriction of the thorax, with slight pain or 
soreness in coughing or draAving a long breath. In some cases 
the fever is quite marked for the first two or three days. 
About the third day the patient begins to expectorate a thin 
glairy fluid, which, rising to the glottis, greatly increases the 
desire to cough. The painful symptoms usually subside when 
the cough becomes more free. The tongue is foul, pulse fre- 
quent, and many times quite weak, with a sense of lassitude 
and great anxiety. Improvement begins from the fourth to 
the eighth day, in cases which terminate favorably. While it 
may be a little difficult to always distinguish this disease 
from pneumonia (lung fever), if the case is one of severity; 
but in mild cases the symptoms do not usually occasion much 
alaim. In w^eak and poorly nourished children this disease is 
of frequent occurrence. At first the little patient has a pro- 
tracted chill, followed by a rise and fall of temperature, with 
higher range in the afternoon, but becomes less and less 
marked as the disease advances. Breathing is quick and 
wheezing, the pulse frequent and full, though soft and easily 
compressed. The cough is persistent, at first a viscid mucus, 
becomes, as the disease advances, j^ellowish, greenish and 
opaque. Labored breathing is marked, when the disease is 
full.y developed and coming on in paroxysm, it is followed by 
a long harrassing cough, which frequently terminates in 
vomiting, the patient gaining some relief for a short time. This 
disease often continues for days or sometimes weeks, termin- 
ating favorably, or the heavy breathing becomes more intense, 
the symptoms of asphyxia rapidly increase and the patient 
dies in a state of collapse. 

Treatment — Since bronchitis is known by several appel- 
lations, such as acute, asthenic, capillary, croupous and chronic, 
there will be but little change in the treatment. The mucous 
catarrh, associated with moderate expectoration, would be 
different from dry catarrh with scanty expectoration, or bron- 



THEREFLECTOR 159 

cliorrhoea, profuse expectoration, or fetid bronchitis, showing 
gangrene of the lung. It is true that the treatment should 
conform to meet the indications in all cases, as dry or profuse 
expectoration, it would be readily observed that the two cases 
should not be given the same medicine. The first thing we 
will notice is the patient's condition. If there is fever, alter- 
nating from hot to cold flashes, dry skin, restlessness, head- 
ache, burning and soreness in the chest, aconite 10 to 15 drops 
in half glass of water, teaspoonful every hour. If the face 
looked blanched, sleeplessness, sharp, painful cough, throat 
dry, purplish color of the mucous membrane of the fauces, lie 
with eyes partly closed, the more of these expressions we would 
see the stronger is the indication for belladonna, 10 drops 
added to the aconite and given until w^e could see a change. If 
the fever was high, pulse full and bounding, face flushed, 
bright, glossy eyes, pupils small, veratrum, 10 drops gelsemium, 
10 to 20 drops to half glass of water and given in teaspoonful 
doses until an abatement of the sjanptoms. Our treatment 
must be administered with a view of subduing inflammation 
and reducing nervous tension. Thus a spirit vapor bath to 
induce a copious perspiration and the internal use of an in- 
fusion of Virginia snake root, smartweed, or butterfly weed 
given sufficently to keep the patient in moist sweat. The 
mucus must be moved from the throat, so we will depend on 
lobelia and ipecac in small doses frequently repeated, till we 
obtain results. A syrup of red puccoon root or the tincture 
made with pure grain alcohol, given short of nausea, is one of 
the best remedies we have. If there is sharp pain^ jai'ing of 
the head when couching, or other parts of the body, bryonia 
from 1 to 3 drops every one to three hours may be used with 
good effect. If there is great anguish, suffocation, palpita- 
tion of the heart, oppression of the chest with difficult breath- 
ing, and spasmodic cough and the spittle thick yellow sputa, 
digitalis, i/o to 2 drops, alternated with cactus granddiflorus 
1 to 2 drops every two or three hours. If the kidneys become 
involved, acetate of potash 10 to 15 grains in a third of a tea- 
cupful of water every three hours. If the tongue shows a 
heavy coat, we look to sulphite of soda 5 to 10 grains every 
three hours, or if the expression is yellow, or a dirty-yellow, 



160 THEREFLECTOR 

podophyllum ^ to 1 drop every two or three hours, or an in- 
fusion of balmony, black root or fringe tree (known in places 
as white ash and old man's beard) may be given to clear out 
th-e bowels and stimulate glandular activity. Where the throat 
is dry and there is difficult breathing, steam from water in an 
open kettle of boiling water with a little lime, sulphur or car- 
bolic acid will be effective, but no gas or steam should be ad- 
mitted that does not afford some relief. The patient's diet 
should be safely guarded and stuffing strenuously prohibited. 

Bunions — This is an enlargement and thickening over the 
joint of the big toe, the cause being the same as that of com- 
mon corns and requires about the same treatment. The pres- 
sure must be removed and continuously avoided, if a cure is 
desired. The common old remedy of mutton tallow, and if 
sore, a little turpentine added and kept bound to the part i-i 
often effective. Extract of cannabis indica 10 grains, salicylic 
acid 6 grains, flexible collodion 1 ounce. Mix and apply every 
night with a feather (may use finger) so as to form a thick 
covering over the bunion or corn for 4 or 6 nights. Bathe foot 
in hot water for several minutes, after which the hardened 
scurf may be easily removed with aid of a knife. After its re- 
moval the remedy can be reapplied if the part presents a whit- 
ish appearance, and the same treatment continued. The fol- 
lowing is a remedy for corns or bunions; Pare the part with 
a sharp knife sufficient to remove all hardened substance, and 
then mix one-half ounce of chloride of antimony, 12 grains 
iodide of iron and one-half ounce of tincture of iodine. Ap- 
ply with a pencil or camel-hair brush once a day. A small 
piece of potash slacked in the open air and sufficient gum 
arable mixed v/ith it to form a paste and then applied is reputed 
to be a corn or bunion cure instanter. Where there is a red, 
shining, hot swelling joint, violent cutting pains, part burns 
like fire, aconite may be applied until heat is subdued. Arnica 
is the remedy where the part is bluish, looking bruised and 
intense soreness. Chronic enlargement of the joint, with red- 
ness of surrounding parts, swelling and itching of toe, un- 
healthy skin, readily ulcerates, requires the internal adminis- 
tration of graphites. Iodide of potash is considered one of the 
most effectual remedies for the chronic form of this disease. 



THEREFLECTOR 161 

Burns — This may be the result of direct or indirect con- 
tact with heat, either the close proximity with fire, water, 
steam or gas. There is considerable difference in different 
cases as to the extent of the injur}' from the burns produced 
by hot fluids and vapors. In some cases, which are only super- 
ficial, there will be slight inflammation or redness produced, 
whilf in others the burn may be so severe as to cause the death 
of the part, followed by sloughs. All charred or burnt cloth- 
ing should be carefidly removed away from burnt surface. 
After dressing has been applied, be in no hurry in changing. 
If injury is extensive, apply dressing so they can be removed 
without exposing too great surface at once. Extensive burns, 
even of slight severity, are always dangerous. If one-half or 
even one-third the surface is burned, death is almost certain 
to follow. Burns on the body are more dangerous than those 
of equal extent on the extremities. There are three periods of 
danger: First, from shock immediately after injury; second, 
from fever or sympathetic affections of brain or bowels; thirds 
during period of suppuration, blood poison may supervene. 

Treatment — Use first remedy at hand till others can be 
procured. Thick layers of cotton are best protection to the 
parts. Dress injury as soon as possible after occurrence. Wash 
the parts with a solution of creasote in proportion of 1 dram to 
a point of water; cantharides or urtica urens 1 dram to 4 
ounces of warm water. Where blisters have not already form- 
ed, the local application of grain alcohol is highly extolled. 
Bicarbonate of soda or common baking soda made into a paste 
with clabber and applied is one of the most effective remedies 
extant. Where the milk cannot be had, the soda dusted over 
the parts and a cloth wet and layed over the burnt surface 
will subdue the pain almost immediately and the wound readily 
heal. Carbolic acid applied full strength where the part has 
blistered has been used successfully, and especially in deep 
burns, 1 dram of carbolic acid to one pint of olive or linseed 
oil is excellent. Soon after accident as possible the burnt sur- 
face can be oiled with sweet or linseed oid and dusted over 
with flour from a common pepper box or salt shake until 
thickly covered is a good application. Where the fire has been 
sucked down the throat, equal parts of glycerine and water 
should be given in teaspoonful doses and mouth and throat 



162 THE REFLECTOR 

gargled with it every few minutes. Urtica dioica (uitica 
urens, nettle) in 1 drop to 10 drops every one or two hours 
is very effective. Where there is chills, followed with fever, 
hot skin and much thirst, great fear and anxiety of mind, much 
nervous excitability, aconite 10 drops to half glass of water 
teaspoonful every hour. Dark, watery offensive diarrhoea, 
rapid prostration, with sinking of vital force, extreme thirst, 
drinking often, but little at a time, great anguish, restlessness 
and fear of death, Fowler's solution of arsenic one to five 
drops, well diluted with water, every three or four hours. In 
spasms arising in severe burns, pains, causing great excite- 
ment, very impatient, can hardly answer one politely, warm 
sweat about the face and head, chamomile tea, a small hand- 
ful in a teacupful of boiling water may be given in teaspoonful 
doses every one or two hours. Wliere a septic condition fol- 
lows sloughing and produces that purplish hue of the face, so 
often seen in blood poison, baptisia from 5 to 20 drops every 
two or three hours, and the ulcers bathed with a decoction of 
marigold, wiped dry and dusted with boric acid three or four 
times a day. The bowels and kidneys should be closely 
watched. 

Cancer — This disease is one that has caused more experi- 
ments and as much humbuggery as any malady that afflicts the 
human family. Surgeons, as a rule, regard the knife as the 
only effective means of removing tumors and cancerous 
growths, and therefore little is said in works on surgery rela- 
tive to any other method, consequently all other kinds of treat- 
ment come under a very useless if not satirical criticism. It 
may be laid down as a postive result of surgical practice that 
a cancer destroyed with the knife returns sooner than one re- 
moved by the caustic treatment. The separation of the can- 
cerous mass by the caustic method seems to remove more com- 
pletely all the cancer cells, while excission leaves a few of them 
to begin anew their destructive action. 

There has been three principal methods of treatment de- 
vised as follows : First, by local applications ; second, by hppo- 
dermic injections into the substance of the growth; and, third, 
by internal treatment. While the two latter methods are not 
practical for all purposes, yet the system should be rendered 
as septic as possible b}^ internal treatment during the local ap- 



THEREFLECTOR 163 

plication. Before discussing the treatment it might be proper 
to notice in a brief way the different forms of this disease as 
given by those who follow the treatment of cancers as 
specialists. There are six varieties given and described with 
but little difference in character and form. Sarcoma is de- 
fined as a malignant growth originating from the first develop- 
ment of cells forming in connective tissue. The cells appear 
round, spindle-shape, or in large, plate-like forms and may ex- 
ist either separately or in conjunction in the same tumor. Their 
development always begins in the connective tissue, is mostly 
in the skin, periosteum and bone, but infrequently in secret- 
ing glandular organs. The sense of feeling differs according 
as the location is in hard or soft tissue. In some cases the tu- 
mor is firm, tense and elastic, but is generally soft and fluctu- 
ating. The development occurs most commonly between the 
ages of twenty and forty, as the result of some external in- 
jur,v or local irritation. It begins in a single nodule and several 
may begin at the same time with rapid development. Little 
pain occurs until after ulceration begins. If early treatment 
is begun and properly administered, the chances of a favorable 
recovery may be expetced. After ulceration begins, the 
chances are not so favorable and generally terminates fatally 
in a few months. 

Scirrhus — The malignancy of this form of the disease is 
developed from the squamous epithlium and involves the skin 
and mucous tissue. It frequently follows injury, but the cause 
cannot always be determined. It commences a firm, hard, 
dense nodule under the skin, being at first easily movable. As 
it increases, the tissues become infiltrated, hard, livid and the 
blood vessels become enlarged, the neighboring glands become 
involved, the parts are firmly fixed with a play of sharp lan- 
cinating pains. Location is most generally on the breast, ute- 
rus or liver. Microscopic examination will generally show 
small round cells with small pits or depressions, surrounded by 
fibrous stroma. They seldom develop before the fortieth year 
and usually terminate badly in from two to four years, unless 
removed by proper treatment. 

Encephaloma — This is known as a soft cancer, rose cancer, 
fungus hematodes. and the cerebriform cancer. In most com- 



164 T, HEREFLECTOR 

monly involves the bones, the eye^ the lymphatic glands, mam- 
mae, uterus, and liver. It may occur at any age, and is the only 
form that develops in childhood. It may begin as a single no- 
dule on the nose or face, or they may be in several nodules 
thickly spread over the breast. But little pain is experienced 
until ulceration begins, when a dull, heavy pain takes place 
and annoys the patient for some months, when the heavy 
strain causes a general breakdown and the case terminates 
fatally, unless timely treatment has been begun early in de- 
velopment. 

Epithelioma — This is the cancer often seen on the lower 
lip ; is found on the tongue, face, cervix and any portion of the 
body. It occurs, generally, after the fortieth year, and is the 
result of long irritation, beginning as a crack, tubercle, wart, 
or incrustation, and extends with the progress of the indura- 
tion. The development is very slow and many years often 
elapsing before its termination. It may be known by being 
located upon the skin, mucous membrane, cracked or wart-like 
excrescences, with an indurated base, slow growth, develop- 
ment of similar disease in adjacent glands. Free and early re- 
moval is followed by permanent cure. 

Colloma — This form of cancer is knoAvn as gelatiform, be 
cause of the clear colloid material. It is the cancer of the stom- 
ach, ovary, omentum and the bones of the extremities. It takes 
the form of the organ involved and growing as a pronounced 
tumor. Its general history is similar to that of encephaloma, 
except that it rarely occurs in childhood, grows somewhat 
more slowly, and does not so readily involve Ijanphatic glands. 
It is difficult to distinguish, previous to removal, from other 
forms of cancer. Usually terminates in death in a short time. 

Melanoma — A malignant growth resembling encephaloma, 
but the discoloration caused by black pigment will afford the 
opportunity to differentiate between them. It is known as 
black cancer, and occurs mostly in the eye and skin, and is 
particularly noticeable on account of the pigment which marks 
it in varying shades from iron gray to deep black. The cancer 
is very apt to begin in or underneath a pigmentary mole, and 
has the same appearance as the encephaloma, except that the 



THEREFLECTOR 165 

excess of pigment causes a change in color. Unless removed 
early in its development it terminates fatally in a short time. 

Treatment — There are but two recognized methods of 
treating tumors, viz. : The knife and caustic treatment. As 
this work is written principally for the laity, the caustic treat- 
ment will naturally be given tlie most prominence. The knife 
will give the quickest result and leave a less scar, but there is 
a greater probability of a return of the malady than where the 
caustic method is used. 

Internal treatment is not practiced much by cancer doc- 
tor's. They depend almost exclusively on local application. It 
is an axiomatic fact, that the nearer a normal state of health, 
a greater probability will be to a successful recovery. The 
general health should in no wise be negletced. Where the pa- 
tient has the appearance of strong vitality it might be prudent 
to proceed at once with local treatment. If I were prescribing 
for a patient of this kind I Avould look for the source of the 
trouble with a view of checking all morbid development. The 
glands, such as the liver and the villi of the intestines. As no 
two cases would give the same expression, our treatment would 
necessarily follow as a sequence. To excrete poison we would 
think of the kidneys and give acetate of potash, uva ursi, pip- 
sissewa, kava kava as indicated, and for the liver and bowels, 
podophyllum, iris versicolor ; to check its contaminating in- 
fluence in the blood, baptisia tinctoria ; as a glandular invigor- 
ator, Phytolacca, or iodide of potassium ; as a tonic, nux voirrica, 
hydrastis. However, the case might demand something dif- 
ferent from the above or a change occasionally and in that irr- 
stance a physician should be consulted. 

Local treatment of destroying these growths are numer- 
ous. Nitric acid, sulphuric, lactic and pyrogallic acid have 
each had their zealous defenders, but neither of them has been 
able to hold any permanent place. Nitrate of silver has been 
used, but its action is too superficial; caustic potash has a 
tendency to destroy too much tissue. Chloride of zinc, salicylic 
acid and arsenic are the three drugs which stand at the head 
of the list. Every cancer treatment contain at least one of 
these drugs in some modified form to suit the caprice of the 
preseriber. Chloride of zinc is about the oldest caustic used 



166 THEREFLECTOR 

in the local treatment of cancer. It is very painful in its ac- 
tion, but establishes an aseptic slough and thus avoids any 
hemorrhage or blood poisoning. 

How to Apply the Plaster — Take a piece of isinglass 
plaster and placing it over the nodule, then take a lead pencil 
or other marker and draw a line around the growth about one- 
quarter of an inch from the diseased margin. Now cut around 
the circle, making an opening which when applied will leave 
the diseased part ready for the application of the plaster ; the 
skin must be abraded with a sharp knife under a local anes- 
thetic, or by an application of salicylic acid, which may be 
used to a good advantage in softening and removing the su- 
perficial layers of the epithelium and prepare the way for othei' 
caustics. After the nodule has been sacrificed and all ingre- 
dients ready, a paste is made by mixing gum opium, 1 dram ; 
extract of belladonna, 2 drams ; arsenious acid, 1 dram ; simple 
cerate, IV2 ounces. Spread a dram on every square inch of a 
piece of soft leather needed to cover the surface to be de- 
stroyed. The opium and belladonna have been added to re- 
lieve the pain, but sometimes the pain is so severe that an 
opiate will be required to give relief. The pain is generally in 
proportion to the action of the plaster on the diseased tissue. 
After the plaster is applied, it should be kept in place for two 
hours; the superficial layer of the cancerous tumor has been 
deadened, and may be softened by the application of a poul- 
tice or any simple unirritating cerate, while sloughing out. 
The plaster is to be applied every day, unless the eyelids begin 
to puff or a fullness of the abdomen expresses a warning that 
must be headed, which means to stop the plaster and apply, 
the poultice. Most patients will receive the daily application 
of the plaster without the manifestation of sj^mptoms of con- 
stitutional poisoning. In a few days, after the first applica- 
tion, a loosening and a separation will take place between the 
tumor and the adjoining structure ; pus appearing in the 
crevice, while the healthy tissue surrounding the cancerous 
slough will be irritated by the arsenic, but not devitalized. The 
cancerous mass has been killed, the live tumor having become 
a foreign substance, which is to be removed or taken out. When 
the dead lump comes out, the irregularities of the adjacent 



THEREFLECTOR 167 

structure will show the extent of the malignant tissue. The 
suppurlating sore is to be dressed every day with some simple 
cerate or healing ointment, until the cavity is well. An en- 
larged lymphatic gland lying near a cancerous tumor may be- 
come involved with cancer cells, which will develop a new 
growth in a few weeks or months, when treatment should be 
instituted at once. Sometimes secondary growths may attack 
the liver, lungs, or other deep seated organs beyond the reach 
of local treatment. Chloride of zinc is a favorite of many 
cancer specialists, owing to its styptic qualities. The action 
is so rapid and attended with so much pain that a chloral ano- 
d^^ne should be given at the time the paste is applied. It should 
be kept on for an hour each day, as a rule. In the development 
of rodent ulcer, there is but little difference in the appearance 
of it and lupus and cancroid ulcer, the significance of the 
term meaning gnawing, eating or destroying. The sore does 
not usually begin in a tubercle or nodule, but in a scaly 
spot, which at length may discharge an ichorous fluid and 
form a crust. The disease is malignant in nature and rarely 
heals kindly, or submit to mild treatment, and if left to take 
its own course may do so much mischief as to bring about a 
fatal issue, although not necessarily a constitutional disease. 
The underlip, the cheek and in its spreading career shows an 
inclination to reach the nose, eye and may penetrate to the 
bone and transform the tissue into granular and liquid debris. 
After developing, the sensations attending the evolution of the 
integument are described as being of a creeping, pricking, 
itching and darting character and not distressingly painful 
until the latter phases of the disease are reached. 

The disease may be safely treated for a while, in the early 
manifestations, with simple applications, which can be used 
for the checking of the growth of lupus in the first stage. 
To an ounce of cold cream (unguentum aquae rosae) add one 
dram of subnitrate of bismuth and ten drops of Fowler's solu- 
tion of arsenic. Mix. Rub slightly upon the furfuraceous 
spot three times a day. It can do no harm and will allay the 
annoying sensations and hold the morbid action under re- 
straint. If an ulcer has formed, an escharotic should be ap- 
plied long enough to kill all of the morbid growth. A dram 



168 THEREFLECTOR 

of chloride of zinc mixed with ten grains of [julverized acacia 
and a few drops of water makes an efficient paste to be em- 
ployed in the desti notion of an epithelial cancer. A dram ol 
pulverized arsenious acid mixed wath half ounce of the extract 
of dandelion or other substance of about the same consistence 
constitutes an active escharotic to be applied to cancerous 
structures. If there is a large surface to be treated, only a 
small quantity of the arsenical compound should be used at 
any one time, lest enough of the poison should be absorbed to 
prove detrimental. However, a plaster the size of a silver 
dime would not part with enough arsenic to do any harm. 
The plaster should be repeated every day until the diseased 
structure is converted into a slough. Granulations will then 
spring up in the sore and the reparative action will fill the 
chasm with healthy tissue. The healing surface should be 
dressed every day with a simple ointment. Plasters contain- 
ing arsenic will frequently cause extensive swelling, especially 
if applied on a diseased structure on the face, it may cause the 
eyes to be swollen shut, but it will gradually subside and cause 
no trouble. When applied on the lips, or other mucous sur- 
faces, the parts must be protected so that the patient wall not 
swallow^ any of the paste, as it will likely result in arsenical 
poisoning. If the cancerous tumor is over four inches across, 
the paste should be applied to one side first and after that has 
been removed, apply the treatment to the other side. After 
the diseased part has been killed, a poultice made of milk and 
bread or other substances may be applied to aid in the slough- 
ing out nodule. 

The above treatment contains the most essential method of 
the cancer specialists, but as each have something different 
from the other, several formulae gleaned from various sources 
are here added, any of which may be used and are given to 
show the similarity in their component parts. There are sev- 
eral other formulae of cancer plasters, but the principal differ- 
ence is found to be more in the way the different ingredients 
are mixed rather than in any new discovery. I give them by 
number for convenience. 

No. 1 — Take chloride of zinc, pulverized red puccoon root, 
and flour, equal parts, and work into a paste and apply. First 



THEREFLECTOR 169 

spread a common sticking plaster, mucli larger than the can- 
cer, cutting a circular piece from the center of it a little larger 
than the cancer, applying it, which exposes a narrow rim of 
healthy skin, then applj-- the cancer plaster. After it remains 
in place 24 hours it should be removed, leaving the cancer look- 
ing like a burnt shoe sole, and the rim outside the appearance 
of parboiled, as if burnt by steam. Dress with a poultice made 
of slipper}^ elm or sassafras leaves until suppuration takes' 
place, then heal with any common salve. 

No. 2 — Take one part of pulverized red puccoon root, 
three parts of powdered galangal root and chloride of zinc 
sufficient to make a paste. 

No. 3 — Take one dram of each red puccoon root, charcoal 
and chloride of zinc. Add sufficient water to make a paste. 

No. 4 — Take one dram each of red puccoon root, arsen- 
ious acid and a half dram of chloride of zinc and add flour and 
water sufficient to make a paste. 

No. 5 — Take one dram each of red puccoon root (pow- 
dered) and cloride of zinc, flour and Avater sufficent to make 
paste. 

No. 6 — Take 3 ounces of vaseline, 3 drams of red sulphide 
of mercury and 1 dram of arsenious acid. Make into a paste. 

No. 7 — Take 1 ounce each of powdered Virginia snake 
root, vegetable charcoal and arsenious acid. Mix. Make into 
a thick paste with water and apply. 

No. 8 — Take 1 dram each of crowfoot (ranunculus bulbo- 
sus), bolbus (peucedanum off.) powdered sulphur and ar- 
senious acid. Mix. Make into paste with Avater. 

No. 9 — Take mild chloride of mercury, arsenious acid 
sulphate of morphine of each 1 dram and 6 drams of pow- 
dered cinnamon and add sufficient water to make a paste. 

No. 10 — Take 10 grains of salicylic acid, 2 drams of pow- 
dered starch, 2 drams of oxide of zinc and 4 drams of lard. 
Make a paste. 

No. 11 — Take 1 ounce each of balsam of fir, white wax 
and chromic acid. IMelt the wax and balsam of fir together 
and add the acid slowly, stirring while cooling. Remove th^' 
cuticle with a fly blister and spread the plaster upon a piece 



170 THEJIEFLECTOR 

of muslin and apply. "When sufficient depth of tissue has 
been destroyed, slough out with a poultice. 

No. 12 — Take 1 ounce each of sulphate of zinc, arsenious 
acid, sulphur and rochelle salts. 

No. 13 — To 75 parts each of pure water and rectified 
spirits of wine add 1 part of arsenious acid. Mix and spread 
over the cancer with a brush once a day, until the entire cancer 
sloughs out. 

No. 14 — To 1 dram each of chloride of gold, zinc, anti- 
mony, brominiun add sufficient starch and water to make a 
paste. Apply to small portions of the ulcer, after spreading 
on a piece of clean linen. The chloride of bromine can be in- 
creased two or three times, owing to effect desired. The zinc 
is used as a styptic. The pain from the application is very 
great and generally requires an opiate to allay it. The plaster 
should remain on about 24 hours and a poultice should then bvi 
applied. In eight or ten days the diseased portion should be- 
come detached, leaving a healthy granulating surface. If any 
diseased tissue still remains, a little of the caustic paste should 
be re-applied. One-tenth or one-twelfth of a grain of the 
chloride of bromine, in pill form, may be given once or twice a 
day for six months. 

No. 15 — Where there is a cancerous tumor developing on 
internal surface and the application of a plaster impossible, 
the use of the hypodermic needle is used with some reported 
success. The following compound is given for that purpose : 
Take 1 part of arsenious acid, 5 parts of cocain hydToehloras 
and 500 parts of recently boiled water. Mix and inject into 
the cancerous mass every two or three days. 

The foregoing is the principal part and contains all the 
essential elements in the treatment of cancer. 

Carbuncle — This is a species of malignant growth and 
coalesces into a compound boil, discharging through several 
openings. It commences as a livid red swelling, attended with 
a burning, itching, smarting pain, which gradually becomes 
. worse as the disease progresses. After 5 or 6 days softening 
and suppuration take place, and when it bursts, instead of 
having a central opening as a boil, it is flat on top with several 
openings, which discharge a thin acrid fluid. The openings 



THEREFLECTOR 171 

gradually widen, tlie various apertures become closely united, 
giving a rough outline of a piece of honeycomb. The most 
prominent seat of development is at the juncture of head and 
neck, but no part of the body is exempt from its ravages. 

Treatment — In this, as well as other forms of morbid de- 
velopment, the condition of the patient's general health should 
be closely observed, and internal remedies administered to 
meet the indications. 

"Where there is a sensation, as if boiling water was run- 
ning beneath the integument, with great restlessness, thirst, 
worse at night and better from warm applications. Fowler's 
solution of arsenic from 3 to 7 drops three times a day well 
diluted with water. Belladonna is the remedy where there is 
bright redness, throbbing pain, restlessness and inactivity to 
sleep. 

Vegetable charcoal is given from 1 to 5 grains every three 
hours where the tumor has a dark bluish appearance. 

Rhustox — (Poisin oak) is indicated where there is itching, 
burning around the parts, with gangrenous appearance. Pa- 
tient feels better moving around. Ten to 20 drops in half 
glass of water, teaspoonful every two or three hours. Muriatic 
acid a few drops in a third of a teacupful of water sufficient to 
make a pleasant drink every three hours is indicated in those 
cases indicating scurvy. 

Hepar sulphur and lachesis are the principal drugs to be 
used in those cases, showing the symptoms of blood poisoning. 
A few drops of full strength carbolic acid injected in four or 
five different places is claimed to be successful in aborting 
carbuncle in its first appearance. 

A poultice of sassafras leaves, or slippery elm bark, is a 
good local application before suppuration and the use of mari- 
gold stems and blossoms afterwards, in the same way, are 
very useful. When used, a poultice should never become too 
dry and may be continued for several days. Owing to the 
thick skin and tough tissue, it may be necessary, as soon as 
softening begins in spots, to open them and apply the mari- 
gold poultice. After suppuration ceases, salicylic acid should 
be dailj^ sprinkled over the entire surface. The place should 
be dried before the acid is used, as it readily melts and causes 



172 T, HEREFLECTOR 

the sensation of ant stings. Diy dressings of boric acid or 
other anti-septic treatment should be pursued. Fever or other 
changes should be met as indications demand. 

Catarrh — As there are so many forms of this disease, be- 
ing the principal factor in all abnormal disturbance of the 
mucous membrane, it is here referred to with relation to the 
lining of the nose and its cavities. It is an acute or sub-acute 
inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose, the result 
of cold. It may exist alone, or in connection with diseases of 
more or less of other respiratory passages. It has its onset in 
a stuffing or clogging up of the head with a dull, heavy pain 
and a feeling of dullness and debility and sometimes pain in 
various parts of the body. In a few days there is a copious se- 
cretion from the nose ; the secretions are arrested to some ex- 
tent, there being dryness of the skin, constipation of the 
bowels and a sluggish action of the kidneys. 

There is an epidemic form of this disease that may occur 
and does occur at certain seasons, known as influenza. It cor- 
responds to a disease among horses known as epizootic, and is 
in a more aggravated form and may begin its onset with a chill 
followed by a rise of temperature. There is the characteristic 
fullness attended with soreness of the breast, sneezing, sore- 
ness of the eyeballs, cough that jars the head, causing consider- 
able pain, hoarseness from sore throat, no appetite, vomiting, 
eostiveness, with a white appearance of the tongue, are gen- 
erally present. The symptoms become mitigated about the 
fourth or fifth day, secretion being established from the skin 
and kidneys, but the cough continues unabated at times, be- 
ing severe and obstinate. 

Treatment — This disease, in its simple form, is not dan- 
gerous, though is very annoyng to the patient. In most in- 
stances very mild remedies will be sufficient. The feet bathed 
in warm mustard water and drinking a copious draught of hot 
water and wrapping the body in warm blankets will generally 
create activity of the skin, or any good sweating tea will ac- 
complish good results. A brisk cathartic answers the purpose 
in some cases and a dram of acetate of potash in a wineglass 
full of water and five drops of gelsemium added and taken 
three times a day is very efficient. Gelsemium is one of the 



THEREFLECTOR 173 

most efficient of all agents. When the patient feels the first 
sensation of cold, 10 or 15 drops taken and followed with a few 
hours of sleep is almost a sure cure. This drug, in large doses, 
will frequently cause double vision, but no other trouble will 
follow. 

In the treatment of the epidemic form, the time will 
necessarily be prolonged and variable complications must be 
considered. "Where the fever is of sufficient importance to re- 
quire attention, the proper sedative will furnish the basis of a 
good treatment. Veratrum viride or aconite 10 drops to half 
glass of water and if there is a thin acrid discharge from the 
nose, 10 drops of rhus tox. should be added and a teaspoonful 
of the solution given every one to three hours according to the 
severity of the disease. Bryonia should be substituted for the 
rhus when the discharge is glairy, tensive pain, flushed right 
cheek, and the pain extending from forehead to back part of 
the head. Baptisia when the discharge has a tinge of brown 
and the mucous membrane looks tumid and dusky; phytolacca 
w^hen there is an enlargement of the lymphatic glands, face 
pallid and nose appears swollen ; sodium sulphite where there 
is pallid expression and dirty dischage from the mucous 
membrane ; belladonna where there is a marked inclination to 
sleep or dull pain in the nose or head; gelsemium is indicated 
where the face is flushed, bright eyes, small pupil and heavjr 
pulsing of the carotids; nux vomica where there is chill witln 
feverish heat, discharge from the nose during the day and dry 
at night, dry cough with headache as if skull would burst; 
Pulsatilla where the discharge is yellow, green^ thick, fetid 
mucus from the nose, loss of taste and smell craves fresh, cool 
air and worse in warm room. Sambucus (elder) is used where 
the nose is stopped with thick tenaceous mucus. A tea made 
from the inner bark of the root is an excellent remedy in dis- 
eases of the mucous membrane and the juice of the berries is 
very refreshing in fevers. Local applications are best made to 
nose and throat wdth a solution of salicylic acid or chlorate of 
potash and spray the parts every one or two hours. 

Cholera Infantimi — This is a disease of childhood and 
claims as many victims as any other malady that attacks the 
infants of a neighborhood. It is an acute catarrhal inflamma- 



174 THEREPLECTOR 

tion of the mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels, to- 
gether with an irritation of the sympathetic nervous system, 
occurring in children during their first dentition, character- 
ized by severe colicky pains, vomiting, purging, febrile reac- 
tion and prostration. In a great many cases of summer com- 
plaint the stomach and bowels seem to have reversed action. 
The irritation has checked the absorbing processes of the 
glands and the watery fluids of the blood are poured out in an 
effort to relieve the condition. The onset is frequently sud- 
den, the vomiting and purging continues unabated, febrile 
symptoms arise, abdominal pain with rapid pulse and intense 
thirst follow as a result. The vomited matter is partly undi- 
gested food, mucus and bile. The stools are at first partly 
fecal, but soon change to a watery fluid of different colors, 
from green to an ashy, dirty expression, soaking the clothing, 
leaving a faint greenish or yellowish strain, acting from ten to 
twenty times a day, emitting a musty, and at times a fetid 
odor. The fever begins at once, the temperature ranging 
from 101 degrees to a 105 degrees, with morning remissions. 
The pulse is rapid and feeble, ranging from a 130 to 160 beats 
per minute. This condition continues but a few hours before 
rapid wasting ensues, the body shrinks, the eyes are sunken 
and parth^ closed, the mouth partly open, the lips dry, cracked 
and bleeding. The little patient is at first restless and irritable, 
but soon passes into a semi comatose condition, the pulse be- 
coming more feeble, the skin presents a clammj^ coldness, the 
pupil of the eye fails to respond to the light and the stupor 
deepens, death soon following, or the condition changes and 
convalescence being slow and tedious. 

We have another disease of childhood, or infancy, re- 
sembling summer complaint and is frequently mistaken for it. 
It involves the lower part of the bowels and is known as 
entero-colitis. It runs pretty much the same way except tho 
vomiting is not so troublesmoe. The stools are frequently 
mixed with yellow particles of feces and undigested food, 
mucus, streaked with blood, sour odor, abdomen distended 
and tender, moderate fever and thirst, not so fatal and recovers 
in from one to two weeks. 

The duration of the choleric symptoms are short, under 



THEREFLECTOR 175 

five days, but relapses are common and improvement retarded. 
Treatment — In beginning our treatment, the first thing 
to attract our attention is the general surroundings. It is 
almost impossible to succeed unless the environments are in- 
viting, the most scrupulously cleansing fluids, water, milk 
and all beverages, as well as the clothing, the room airy and 
void of flies, floors clean and all decaying matter destroyed. 
It may be necessary for us to proceed at once to relieve the 
distressed condition of the little patient. If there is constant 
retching and vomiting and a copious evacuation from the 
bowels, what can be accomplished with medicine given by 
mouth? Here is where a good hypodermic syringe plays an 
important part. Take one-twelfth part of a tablet, containing: 
one-eighth grain of sulphate of morphine, and 1-150 grain of 
atropine, dissolve in pure warm water and inject into the 
leg or arm and repeat every thirty minutes, until the condi- 
tions are relieved. The pain is of little moment and a change 
for the better almost certain. We have quieted the action of 
the bowels with the morphine and checked the draining of 
the blood of its water fluids with the atropine, besides giving 
the little patient a few hours rest. A tablet containing one- 
eighth grain of morphine and 1-150 grain of atropine- 
is the most common form used. The action of the atropine wilK 
frequently flush the skin, causing the little patient to show the^ 
. appearance of fever, but the expression will pass off 
in a few hours without serious results. Euphorbia co- 
rollata (large flowering spurge) ten drops to four- 
ounces of water to which may be added ten drops 
of the tincture of aconite for fever and given in tea- 
spoonful doses every hour, especially if there is hot ekin, 
quick pulse and sleeplessness, .Small doses of ipecac and 
aconite, 5 to 10 drops of each to 4 ounces of water and given 
in teaspoonful doses every hour is excellent. Belladonna may 
be used instead of the ipecac w^here the features are pallid 
or flushed, dryness of mouth and lips, tongue coated white 
in middle with red edges; stools thin and green mucus or 
bloody mucus, delirious during and just after sleep — 
desirous to get out of bed. Sudden starting at noise 
and during sleep; cries out suddenly during sleep and 



176 T-HEREFLECTOR 

sleeps with eyelids partly open. Benzoic acid is a useful 
remedy in one-grain doses administered every three hours. 
It is especially indicated where the stool has a dirty or ashy 
look, tongue coated with white mucus or ulcerated. Borax is 
indicated in a pale clay-colored expression of the face, ulcera- 
tion or aphthae in mouth and on the tongue, light yellow, 
slimy mucus, or greenish watery stools. Camphor is to be 
given in those conditions where there is a suddent attack 
with rapid prostration, skin cold, yet the child refuses cover. 
Chamomile is indicated where there is a thick, yellow or white- 
coated tongue, vomiting sour substances or slimy food. Iris 
versicolor (blue flag) in one drop doses every one to three 
hours, where* the stools are green, watery, corroding with 
colicky pains, white and yellow mucus and turning the skin 
red. Carbonate of magnesia, from one to two grains three 
times a day, dissolved in a little water is indicated where the 
stools are green and slimy like the scum of a frog-pond, sour 
smelling, scanty and excoriating, colicky pains before and 
tenesmus or straining during and after stool. Worse in hot 
weather and during dentition. Podophyllum is very useful, 
given where the tongue shows a yellowish or brown coat, 
or where the stool presents a meal-like sediment, dark yellow 
mucus, smelling like carrion, worse of a morning and after 
eating and drinking. Five drops in four ounces of water or 
lemonade syrup and given a teaspoonful eyery two or three 
hours. Pulsatilla is given in one drop doses every two hours, 
where the tongue is coated with a tenacious mucus, no thirst, 
stools changeable, no two alike, worse at night, rumbling in 
bowels before acting. Sulphur is well adapted to those cases 
where the child is drowsy through the day and wakeful at 
night; worse in early morning, very excoriating, repeated re- 
lapses, case lingers, slow improvement, palms of the hands 
and soles of the feet hot. 

The mortality of infants are more numerous among the 
poorer classes, especially those living in the cities. They lack 
the necessary facilities to give the best results. The child 
should be kept free from all undue excitement and given 
plenty of fresh air. It should be frequently bathed in tepid 
water, then wrap in a clean sheet and allow to dry without 



THEREFLECTOR 177 

rubbing. Its clothing should be changed daily. It should 
be carried into the open air frequently ; no matter how sick 
it may appear, the weather, however, should be pleasant. The 
diet should be wholesome milk. The mother's milk, if she is 
healthy, should be preferred. Cow's milk with one part of 
water, a little salt and sugar of milk added, is the next best. 
The milk should never be boiled, but kept fresh. If bottle fed, 
all nipples and nursing bottles should be thoroughly sterilized 
before using and the milk given warm. Where there is great 
emaciation and exhaustion, a little beef tea given every three 
or four hours, discarding all starchy food, will aid in giving 
strength. Over-feeding should be avoided. 

Change of Life. — There is no period in the life of woman 
that causes any more anxiety and stored with greater antici- 
pations than that in which a peculiar revolution or a change 
from one condition in life to that of another. This transitory 
state require several months or may extend over two or three 
years and most frequently occurs between the ages of 40 and 
50. There is no exact time, when the change may take place, 
as there are as many variations in the lives of most women 
as colors of the rainbow. While this change is in progress 
there is more or less disturbance of the general health which 
call for medical attention. Much benefit will be derived 
from proper attention to diet, exercise and clothing. Plain, 
simple food, consisting for the most part of vegetables, fruits, 
fresh beef and mutton, will be foirnd preferable. All stimulat- 
ing food and beverages should be avoided. Daily exercises 
in the open air, by walking or riding will be beneficial. The 
clothing shoiild be warm and comfortable and adapted to the 
season. 

Frequent baths and friction of the skin will assist greatly 
in preserving the health. Where there is great debility, de- 
fective nutrition and anemia, it is advisable to commence 
treatment with aletris farinosa (star grass) one of the best 
female tonics. It may be given in doses of 10 to 15 drops 
three times a day. If there is great pain in back and hips, 
constipation and piles, aesculus glabra (Ohio buckeye) one to 
ten drops to 4 ounces of water and given in teaspoonful doses, 
every one to three hours. Where the patient is very irritable, 



178 THEREFLECTOR 

fullness in forehead and splitting headache, rush of blood 
to the head with bloated face ; constipation of hard, dry stools^ 
like small marbles, Bryonia in one drop doses every two hours- 
will give relief. Pulsatilla is the remedy where there i.'* 
anguish of heart, feel drunk, or swimming of head, when rising, 
from a sitting posture or looking up, alternate redness and 
paleness of face, nose bleed, when menses fail to appear^ 
better in open air or cold room, a mild tearful disposition given, 
in 1 to 5 drops every three hours. Coculus indicus, 5 to 10 
drops to water, four ounces; given in teaspoonful doses every 
two hours, where there is nervous weakness and fainting- 
fits, redness of cheeks, and heat in face, menses re-appear aftei' 
a year, palpatation of heart. Clematis virginiana (virgins '» 
bower) 5 to 10 drops every two or three hours in those cases- 
where there are symptoms of spasms and defective action of 
the kidneys. Lachesis is given in 2 to 3 drop doses, where 
there is a burning pressure in top of the head, frequent uterine 
hemorrhages and cannot bear the least pressure in the uterine 
region. Sepia (made from the cuttle fish) is given in 1 to ^ 
drop doses every three hours, where there is sadness and 
weeping, buzzing and roaring in ears, yellowness of face, es- 
pecially across nose, like a saddle, fetid urine with clay-colored, 
sediment adhering to chamber, prolapsus uteri and vagina with 
a burning in the back and jerking in the limbs at night. 
Sanguinaria canadensis (red puccoon) is given in 3 to 5 drops 
in sweetened water every 3 or 4 hours, where there is a redness 
of cheeks and burning of ears, periodical sick headache, be- 
gins in morning, increases during the day and ceases in the 
evening, burning in palms of the hands and soles of the feet, 
hot flashes and whites. Sulphur is the remedy for low spirits, 
out of humor, fretful inclined to cry, top of head hot, sour 
eructations from stomach, frequent flashes of heat, weak faint- 
ing spells, whites of yellow mucus and puritis vulva. 

In leuchorrhoea or whites, equal parts of geranium macu- 
latum (alum root) and nymphaea odorata (white pond lily) 
the powdered root, a heaping teaspoonful placed in clean ves- 
sel and a quart of boiling water is poured on and let stand 
till milk warm and use at bedtime with a fountain syringe, has 
acted wonderfully in all cases. 



THEREFLECTOR 179 

Cholera Morbus — This disease may be described as an 
acute catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane of 
the stomach and intestines, of sudden onset; characterized 
by violent abdominal pains, incessant vomiting and purging, 
cold face, rapid, feeble pulse, spasmodic contraction of the 
muscles of the abdomen and extremities and prostration. It 
is a disease of summer and early autumn, climatic changes 
being an important factor. Irritants of all kinds, unripe 
fruits and vegetables and fermentation of food. The onset 
sudden and violent and occurs most frequently after midnight, 
with chilliness and intense nausea, vomiting and purging, ac- 
companied with distressing burning or tearing abdominal 
pains or colic. The vomited matter, at first, consists of the 
ordinary contents of the stomach and the stools of ordinary 
feces, but soon the discharges by vomit and stool are liquid, 
whitish or of a green or yellowish tint ; if the attack is severe 
or protracted, the discharges change to a rice-water character. 
The patient becomes rapidly emaciated and reduced in strength, 
the body shrinks, the skin cold and covered with a clammy 
sweat and the pulse feeble. Intense thirst followed by severe 
cramps in the muscles • especially those of the calves, thighs, 
forearms, fingers and toes. 

Treatment — Having a case in which reversed action has 
developed and the watery elements of the body are being 
rapidly evacuated, the first thing we think of is to stop the 
drainage and quiet the system; thus we would think of our 
liypodermic. As soon as we could get a tablet of morphia 
one-fourth grain, and atropine, 1-120 grain dissolved in a little 
water to be injected into the arm; this will generally check 
the trouble in a few minutes. A syringe used in this way 
should be kept thoroughly clean, or otherwise a very sore 
arm might arise from some poison being injected. Ipecac in 
^ to 1 drop doses every ten minutes where the vomiting is 
severe, acts kindly. Iris versicolor in 1 drop doses every 30 
minutes is indicated where there is sour evacuations with fre- 
quent dischages, profuse and watery. Fowler's solution of 
arsenic, 10 drops to half cupful of water and given every few 
minutes, in teaspoonful doses, are indicated where there are 
cramps of the muscles, skin dry or cold or bluish, great anguish, 



180 THE REFLECTOR 

fear of death. Chamomile is the remedy given in 5 to 10 
drop doses every hour, where there is severe cutting pains in 
the abdomen, frequent vomiting of sour food, mucus or bitter 
substances, child is peevish and fretful, must be carried all 
the time to be quieted. Colocynth, 5 drops to four ounces of 
water and given in teaspoonful doses every half to one hour, 
where there is a moderate nausea and vomiting with cramp- 
like paints around the navel, relieved by drawing up or bend- 
ing over, cramps in the extremities, a yellow, heavy coat on 
tongue. Dioscorea (wild yam) one or two teaspoonfuls in a 
teacupful of boiling water and a teaspoonful of the 
solution given every ten or twenty minutes, where 
there is vomiting, purging, stools watery, with painful 
cramps in the stomach, bowels and extremities, violent 
twisting colic, occurring in regular paroxysms, with remis- 
sions, relieved by walking. Podophyllum, 10 drops to 4 ounces 
of water and administered in teaspoonful doses every hour is 
indicated in those cases occurring in hot weather, gagging or 
empty retching, painless diarrhoea, stools profuse and watery 
and gushing, with cramps in the feet, calves and thighs, rest- 
less sleep, with half closed eyes. Where the extremities are 
cold, hot bottles or blankets should be applied and a good circu- 
lation established. The diet should be mucilaginous drinks, 
as rice water, barley water, gum arable water are preferable. 
A little mutton, chicken or beef broth may be taken at regular 
intervals ; but in no case should solid food be allowed until pa- 
tient has wTll-nigh recovered. 

Colic — There are seven different forms of this disease, 
named with reference to location as hepatic or liver, renal 
or kidney and stomach and intestinal, with some other forms, 
but the colic referred to here is involving the stomach and 
intestines. Colic is a spasmodic contraction of the muscular 
part of the stomach or intestinal tract ; characterized by acute 
paroxysmal pain around the navel and relieved by pressure; 
caused by indigestible food; constipation, collections of gas 
or by an abnormal amount of bile discharged into the intes- 
tines. The symptoms are hard to mistake and a description 
of same is not essentially necessary as it seldom proves fatal. 
In infants and small children, the quick jerk of the arms and 



THEREFLECTOR 181 

legs and a sudden ery ^vill give a fair index to the troiibi.;. 
Placing the body across the breast or over the shoulder and 
lightly patting the back will usually afford relief. "Where 
there is fever indicating some inflammatory process, aconite, 
10 drops to i ozs. of water and given every one or two hours 
in teaspoonful doses will act well. Arsenic, Fowler's solution, 
in 3 to 5 drops in sufficient water will give relief in thos^ 
cases of a severe cutting, spasmodic or drawing pains, as if 
the intestines had become twisted or tied in knots, violent 
burning in stomach, cold sweat, great restlessness, anxiety, 
fear of death and water evacuation. Belladonna in 1 to 5 
drop doses every hour, where the large intestine assumes a 
pad-shape across the stomach, a sensation, as if the bowels 
were held with claws, the abdomen contracted around the 
navel, as if trying to form a ball, pressure gives relief, periodi- 
cal pains, which come suddenly and quit suddenly. Bryonia in 
1 to 3 drop doses every hour is indicated in those cases where 
there is painful twisting around the navel, with frequent 
stitches, relieved by bending over, desires quiet, movement 
increases pain, hard, dry stools. Chamomile is indicated wdiere 
there is an excess of gas, causing the abdomen to be puffed 
and heavily distented, continued drawing, splitting pains in 
abdomen with a sensation as if the bowels were rolled up iu 
a knot, pressing up around navel like a ball, becomes almost 
furious about the pains, vomits sour food or slimy substances, 
very impatient, can hardly answer one correctl}^ Colocynth, 
5 drops to 4 ozs. of water and a teaspoonful of the solution 
every hour is indicated where there is a violent, cutting, con- 
strictive pain, feeling in abdomen like the intestines were 
being ground between rocks, compelling the patient to bend 
over for relief. Dioscorea, 10 or 15 drops in hot water is an 
effective remedy where there is constant twisting pains in the 
abdomen, relieved by stretching out. Nux vomica in % to 1 
drop doses will relieve those cases where there is cramp-like 
pains in stomach with upward pressure as from a stone, 
flatulent colic from indigestion or the use of improper food. 

The relief of pain being the first prerequisite and the 
study of the cause afterwards, if at all, the use of the hypo- 
dermic with from 1-8 to 1-4 grain of morphia is dissolved and 



182 THEREFLECTOR 

injected, which will afford immediae relief by relaxing ths 
spasmodic contraction of the muscles, thereby favoring the 
action of a purgative, which is frequently soon given. Most 
generally a good round dose of calomel followed by the ad- 
ministration of some epsom salts or oil. 

Constipation — This disease, if we might call it such, is a 
functional inactivity of the intestinal canal, either due to atony 
of the muscular coat, causing lessened peristalsis, or to a de- 
ficiency of intestinal and biliary secretion; characterized by 
, a change in the character, frequency and quantity of the 
stools, or by inaction of the liver sedentary habits, the use 
of fine flour, improper quantity of food, an inflammatory 
condition of bowels, brain or the spinal cord or their mem- 
branes. The excessive use of patent pills or other harsh purga- 
tives every time they are feeling unwell tends to further weaken 
the muscular coats of the intestinal tract and calls for a greater 
increase of dose than in the beginning of their use. Costive- 
ness will never be relieved by the use of purgatives. 

Treatment — The only successful method of treatment must 
be a willingness and a determination on the part of the patient 
to succeed. Habits must be corrected, diet changed, purga- 
tives discarded. One of the most effective treatments is the 
internal bath or flushing the large intestine with a copious 
injection of hot water or water as hot as can be used. Auto- 
infection is one of the common ailments that go on without 
much attention given it, until something arises that calls at- 
tention to the condition. 

Bryonia is the remedy, given from 1 to 3 drop doses, 
three times a day, where there is inaction of the liver, stools 
hard, dry and light colored. If the condition be associated 
with piles, 8 to 5 drops aesculus hippocastanum (horse chestnut) 
twice a day, constipation from the effects of lead require small 
doses of alum, podophyllum in small doses during the day, 
where there is a prolapsus with a weakness and soreness of 
the back, it may be alternate with small doses of cascara sa- 
grada; aged persons leading sedentary life, one-fourth to 
one-eighth of a drop of the tincture of aloes at night will aid 
in overcoming the costiveness. One drop of nux vomica in 
a pint cupful of water drank before breakfast on an emply 



THEREFLECTOR 183 

stomach, will usually correct the trouble. A three or four 
days fast is one of the best methods to follow in any case 
where the glands are clogged and the system needing rest. 
The body will clear out all offending materials if it is fur- 
nished with plenty of pure water and given rest. Drinking 
in and washing out will correct the mistakes made by bad 
use of the body. Good habits must be substituted for bad 
ones. The body should be washed clean inside and outside, 
if the aches are to be overcome. Regular habits of responding 
to the calls of nature, should in nowise be neglected. Kneading 
the abdomen, first over the small intestines, then beginning 
in groin on riglit side with tips of fingers, making heavy- 
pressure like the jumping of a toad-frog, following upwards 
the course of the large intestine, will aid wonderfully in creat- 
ing activity in the bowels and should be practiced every night, 
after lying down. 

The diet should consist principally of corn bread, bread 
made of unbolted flour, cracked wheat, oatmeal, fruits and 
nuts, with a cupful of hot water drank between meals, to dis- 
solve the mucus an^i wash out the stomach. 

Consumption — This disease is defined as having its origin 
from the deposit of a tubercle on a small diseased mass in 
the lung structure, which undergoes softening, followed by 
more or less loss of lung tissue and is characterized by fever, 
cough, dyspnoea, emaciation and exhaustion. The causes are 
chiefly hereditary, and closely related to scrofula and is con- 
sidered contagious under certafin conditions, secondary to 
catarrhal pneumonia, the development of a cheesy-like sub- 
stance in the lung-tissue proper. The tubercle is a grayish- 
white, translucent, semi-solid granulation, about the size of 
a millet seed, most commonly deposited in the walls of the 
bronchioles, or smaller bronchial tubes, exciting a low form 
of inflammation, which results in its own death. The masses 
of tubercles soon undergo softening (cheesy-like substances) ; 
the lung tissue changing in structure, as a sequence, also un- 
dergoes further softening, which results in a destruction of 
the lung, more or less, in which there are cavities formed. 
The destructive process may continue, until small arteries 
are involved, which results in hemorrhage. 



184 THEREFLECTOR 

The tubercle is most generally located at the apex of: 
the lung, soon spreading to other parts; it may involve the 
brain, intestines and liver. It may attack the joints, usually 
appears on the hip, knee, ankle, elbow or wrist-joint. It is 
known as white swelling, when it attacks adults, and coxalgia 
and Genu Album in children. Such conditions belong to the 
domain of surgery and are not applicable to a work of this 
kind. 

The symptoms correspond closely to the stage of the 
formation of the tubercle, of the softening and the develop- 
ment of cavities. The development is deceitful in its appear- 
ance, causing the patient and friends to believe it to be of 
minor importance. There is increasing dyspepsia, irritable 
heart, a light, dry, hacking cough, referred to the stomach 
or throat, scanty, giary expectoration, gradual loss of weight, 
impaired muscular strength, palid appearance, more or less 
bleeding, followed by a sharp pain below the clavicles and 
frequently a red line marks the gums below the lower teeth. 
The advance of the disease is announced by increased soften- 
ing cough , free expectoration, dyspnoea increased on exer- 
tion, morning chills, evening fever, night sweats — the so-called 
hectic fever, diarrhoea, increased emaciation and weakness, 
the patient, however, continuing very hopeful of recovery. 

Treatment — Since a diseased part must depend upon cura- 
tive elements, it is necessary that the channels through which 
the recuperative forces pass, must be in good working order 
and all contaminating influences checked. Our attention 
should be first given to digestion and assimilation. To meet 
this requirement, the condition of the patient must receive 
special attention. Should there be any looseness of the bowels, 
which shows a fermentative process, the indication for tincture 
of iodine from 1 to 5 drops in a little sweetened water, after 
meals, alternated with creosote, 25 drops to 4 ounces of pure 
water, teaspoonful of the solution three or four times a day. 
This aids in preventing indigestion and diarrhoea and at the 
same time acts as an antiseptic preventing decomposition. 
Where there is diarrhoea. Fowler's solution of arsenic, well 
diluted with water, from 2 to 6 drops three times a day. 
Where there is a sluggish action of the liver and other glands 



THEREFLECTOR 185 

and no rapid inflammatory action, 4 ounces each of wafer asa 
and wahoo to 8 ounces of the syrup of hypophosi:)hite of lime, 
given in tablespoonful doses three times a day acts well. The 
remedy must be continued for some time and just as the con- 
dition of the patient requires and able to contain. Aconite 
is indicated where there is a bright redness of cheeks, par- 
ticularly of young girls of full habit, short dry cough with 
tickling in throat, hectic fever, with restlessness and anxious 
expression of face, spitting blood and keen pleuritic stitches. 
Belladonna is indicated in spasmodic cough, worse at night 
and after an exertion ; congestion of head with alternate red- 
ness and paleness of face, loss of voice, throat painful to pres- 
sure, young girls at age of pubert}'. Bryonia is indicated where 
the cough at night is so severe that it compels the patient to 
sit up, stitches in chest when coughing or breathing deep ; 
constipated stools, dry and hard and an irritable mood. 

Lycopodium (club moss) 10 drops to 4 ounces of water, 
teaspoonful every hour or two to three hours, in some cases, 
is indicated where there is hectic fever, with cough and puiu- 
lent sputa, fan-like motion of the alae nasi, night sweats, 
gastric irritation and where the urine leaves a sediment in 
the vessel, resembling red sand. 

Sanguinaria nitrate, 1 grain to 4 ounces of the syrup of 
lacto phosphate of lime and given in teaspoonful doses every 
two or three hours is indicated where there is a loose cough, 
expectoration difficult, tough sputa, rust-colored, offensive, 
purulent, burning and stitching pain in chest, circumscribed 
redness of the cheeks, cough worse when lying down, burning 
worse in the evening and frequent hemorrhage. 

The best all-round cough syrup is made by taking the 
fresh roots of elecampane, as much as can be held between 
thumb and fore-finger, place in a clean vessel to which add 
one quart of water, place over a slow fire, cover and let sim- 
mer till reduced to one pint, take from fire and add oni> 
fourth teaspoonful of pulverized alum and enough strained 
honey to make one quart; it can be taken in teaspoonful doses 
every one to three hours. 

With reference to hygienic measures, the patient should 
keep the body in a state of perfect cleanliness by bathing 



188 THEREFLECTOR 

every day in tepid water, gradually increasing the tempera- 
ture until cold; out-door exercise, in all weather except the 
worst; sleep in the upper room, well ventilated, and the lunga 
should be frequently inflated, the air being inhaled through 
the nose gradually and retained till a dizzy sensation arises 
when it can be exhaled and the lungs thoroughly emptied. 
This practice should be continued several minutes at a time 
each day. The bowels should be flushed every other or third 
day with at least a gallon of hot water. 

Convulsions — Convulsions appear under three forms — those 
of infancy, epileptic and puerperal. Convulsions are more 
frequently during infancy and childhood than after puberty, 
though they may be occasionally noticed in all ages. The 
causes giving rise to them are various. Sometimes they are 
produced by diseases of the brain and spinal cord, being a 
nervous reflex arising from some irritation at the periphery 
or some distant part, transmitted to the spinal cord through 
the nerves. Thus, we see convulsions in new bom infants 
arising from the application of a greasy cloth to the cord and 
the pinning on a bandage to hold it in place. In every case 
occurring from such a cause, almost invariably prove fatal. 
Very frequently the spasm may occur from irritation of the 
stomach and bowels from crude or acrid ingesta, during denti- 
tion, from worms, and from inflammation of internal organs, 
or disease of the skin attended with great pain. The most 
marked symptom is a sudden jerking, involuntary movement 
of the extremities and quickly grasping movement of^ the 
hands. These expressions may be observed as well when the 
child sleeps as when awake and is sometimes increased by 
motion. The child sleeps with the eyes partly opened and 
the eye-balls will be drawn upwards and rolled about and 
this involuntary movement of the eye may be frequently no- 
ticed when awake, or there may be excitement of the nervous 
system manifested by restlessness, fits of crying in children 
and sleeplessness ; or the reverse, the patient being dull, im- 
passible and somnolent. The attack is always sudden, the 
patient losing consciousness and being to a great extent, 
insensible. The convulsion is usually very marked, but in 
some cases, it is slight or entirely absent, the patient bein^ 



THEREFLECTOR 187 

rigid and remaining in one position. The respiration is la- 
bored, heavy breathing, the face turgid and purple, the features 
being much distorted. One spasm may terminate the attack, 
but in man}' cases, one succeeds another for from one to 
twenty-four hours. The interval between the spasms is gen- 
erally marked by nothing more than a relaxation of the en- 
tire system and a restoration of deglutition, the patient being 
in a semi-comatose condition. Children having convulsions 
once, are usually more liable to them than others and they 
frequently arise from slight causes, the prepuce or clitoris 
being at fault. 

Epilepsy is a condition of chronic fits, which occur re- 
peatedly, but in many cases without exact typical regularity. 
The disease is often preceded by severe headache, sick stom- 
ears, trembling, nausea, a desire to evacuate the bowels 
ears, trembling, nausea, a desire to evacuate the bowels 
and the bladder, sometimes chilliness, palpatation of the heart, 
dysponea, and soreness over the stomach and abdomen. 

The aura — which is a sensation as if cool air was passing 
over the body, before an attack. The fit generally commences 
by causing the patient to give a shrill, piercing shriek, 'and 
the person violently falls unconscious. The saliva from the 
mouth, causing foam in the lips, which is often mingled with 
blood coming from a badly bitten tongue. The spasm lasts 
for two or three minutes and perhaps longer and then relaxa- 
tion gradually takes place and the patient arousing with 
generally a deep sigh, having no knowledge of his past con- 
dition. Frequently, however, delirium, agitation, or wild ex- 
citement follow the fits. This condition lasts but a short time 
and the consciousness returns. The following may be char- 
acteristic of epilepsy, viz : suddenly falling, shrieks, tonic 
contraction of the muscles — spasms lasting from one-fourth to 
one minute. The condition is in proportion to the severity 
■ of the attack. In some, it is very light, consisting of merely 
an epileptic vertigo, the patient does not fall nor have clonic 
spasms, but is unconscious only for a moment, staggering 
and trembling, and if it occurs during the night, while the 
patient is asleep, it passes off unnoticed by him. These fits 



188 THEREFLECTOR 

occur quite frequently with some and with others only once 
in a great while. 

Puerperal convulsions occur more frequently during the 
act of parturition, but seldom during the lying-in period. 
Young women are the most subject to it, and it usually com- 
mences during the dilitation of the os uteri, or just at the 
expulsion of the foetus. Sometimes the os is very tense and 
unyielding at the onset, at other times it may occur at the 
commencement of after-pains. The convulsion in this case 
resembles very much those of epilepsy. If they occur at the 
termination of the second stage of labor, it is generally hast- 
ened, but if at commencement, it retards it. In any case of this 
disease, the chances for either mother or child are very doubt- 
ful; however, many live. 

Treatment — This as well as other diseases must have the 
cause removed before there is a cessation of the trouble. li: 
the infant has a purple hue, hot water bath is advisable. If 
there is a high fever, lay the little patient on the bed, nude, 
and apply water as hot as can be used and pass a cloth back 
and forth, making a light current of air to cause evaporation, 
will cool the fever more rapidly than any other treatment, and 
can be repeated every time the temperature begins to rise, 
for the operation should cease, as soon as the patient becomes 
chilly. Spasms frequently occur at the change of tempera- 
ture downward, after it has reached its highest point. Aconite, 
10 drops to a gobletful of water; a teaspoonful every half to 
every hour will reduce the temperature, if caused from irrita- 
tion or w^orms, or during dentition. Gelsemium in 1 to 3 drops, 
every thirty minutes, fill 3 or 4 doses are taken and repeated 
every 1 or 2 hours is indicated where the spasm is from 
dentition, with sudden outcries. Where the spasm is severe 
and no medicine can be given, I have checked them with a 
hypodermic injection of three drops of veratrum viride. If 
the trouble is from worms, a little santonin, i/o to 1 grain every 
three hours will correct the disturbance and a flushing out 
of the bowels with a little turpentine water wall aid materially. 
The upper bowel should be cleared out with oil or salts. 

Epilepsy has been one field in which the patent medicine 
man has flourished and has been successful in finding fertile 



THEREFLECTOR 189 

soil. If a patient should happen to recover from the use of 
some certain drug or a combination of drugs, the prescriber 
will proclaim the same to all the world as a great discovery 
and, "I CURE PITS" receives some attention. There is no 
cure for epilepsy unless the cause, that produces the trouble, 
is removed. Nearly all epileptics are very fond of bacon and 
a few days previous to an attack, the appetite becomes very 
ravenous and the system, in consequence, is overloaded and 
the vital force, in an effort to adjust matters, finds itself 
locked, so to speak, and as a result, an explosion takes place 
in the nerve centers to shake things loose. During an attack, 
the clothing should be loosened, a cork or piece of wood placed 
in the mouth, to prevent biting of tongue and lips, and guard 
the person against personal injury. Regular habits should be 
adapted, all excitement avoided, moderate, out-door exercise, 
proper clothing, regular habits and mental quiet, with plain 
diet, simple and easily digested, largely of vegetables, fresh 
ripe fruit, Graham bread, oat-meal mush. No stimulants, alco- 
hol, tobacco or anything liable to irritate the nervous system 
should be used, and keeping the body clean inside and out, 
will aid materially in lessening the trouble. After the patient 
has had epileptic seizures for months, the body apparently 
becomes habituated with them. 

Treatment — Iir some cases there is an intense headache, 
following an attack, which suggests sulphate of nickel from 
one-eighth to one-fourth grain and can be increased to half- 
grain every 3 or 4 hours during the day. "Where there is a 
heavy pulsing of the carotids and the attacks frequent, black 
cohosh, veratrum viride, equal parts, 6 drams, gelsimium, 3 
drams, podoph^dlum, 2 drams, cream of tartar, 1 dram, simple 
syrup sufficient to make 4 ounces. A teaspoonful every hour. 

A pill made of pulverized valerian, 2 grains, one-half grain 
extract hyoscyamus, 1 grain of ferrocyanide of iron, gradually 
increasing the size of dose and taking a pill night and morning, 
has been highly recommendded. Bromide of potassium in 15 
grain doses two or three times a day and increase the dose if 
paroxysms continue and remedy well borne. The medicine 
is to be continued for a year or two and gradually reduced, 
as the paroxysms fail to recur for several months, to be re- 



190 THEREFECTOR 

sumed should they return. For immediate relief, inhalations- 
of 3 to 5 drops of amyl nitrite, a few whiffs of chloroform or 
a hypodermic injection of one-eighth to one-fourth grain of 
morphine. 

Pueperal, or ureamic' convulsions, are closely allied with. 
epilepsy and during an attack give about the same expressions. 
The pulse will be noticed to gradually rise as the paroxysm ad- 
vances and the unfortunate patient thrown into a very hideous 
looking condition. The treatment must be directed towards 
the slowing of the hearts action and producing relaxation 
of the muscles. A hypodermic injection of 10 drops of veratrum 
and three to five drops of lobelia or gelsemium repeated every 
half to every hour, has accomplished wonderful results. The 
bowels should be flushed with all the hot water they will 
contain and repeated every two or three hours. This will 
wash out the bowels, act on the kidneys and skin as well as 
aid in relaxation. After the spasms have been subdued the 
heart showing weakness from its overworked condition, the 
administration of one-sixtieth or one-thirtieth grain of strychnia 
every four hours will do good service. The inhalation of 
chloroform, during an attack will aid in shortening the attack 
and should not be forgotten. Chloral hydrate, thirty grains 
used as an enema, will produce a soothing effect and can be 
repeated, in severe cases, every one or two hours. 

Coug-h — Coughing is an effort of the vital force to expel 
some foreign substance or as the result of some irritation from 
the throat or lungs. It may be sympathetic, in nature, and 
arise from disease of the heart, stomach, liver, or other organs 
of the abdominal viscera. A hollow or barking cough indi- 
cates a lack of expulsive power and too much relaxation in 
the respiratory organs. It is heard in the last stages of con- 
sumption, bronchitis, and sometimes in nervous affections. A 
sharp or ringing cough indicates disease of the larynx' or organs 
of voice ; the hoarse cough is dependent upon some relaxation, 
with increased secretion, in large air passages and is observed 
in the first onset of catarrh, croup, chronic laryngitis and other 
troubles. The cough of asthma is wheezing, in certain conditidn 
of the throat, it is belching and paroxysmal in whooping cough. 



THEREFLECTOR 191 

The cough may be dry, indicating a lack of secretion or moist 
showing that secretion has taken place. 

Treatment — Aconite, 5 to 10 drops to 4 ounces of water 
is indicated where there is a dry cough, arising from tickling 
in throat, excited by drinking or smoking ; worse at night ; 
stitches in chest, breathing obstructed ; the lungs lack expan- 
sive power. Arnica is the remedy, where the cough is dry, 
short and tickling, worse after rising in the morning. It is 
used where the mucus and clotted blood is expectorated, the 
<;hest and abdomen feeling as if bruised. 

Arsenic (Fowler's solution) one to three drop doses every 
three hours is indicated where there is a cough at night, as 
if breathing the smoke of sulphur; scanty expectoration and 
sometimes streaked with blood ; shortness of brea'th when 
going up stairs. 

Aurum triphyllum (Indian turnip) 5 to 20 drops to four 
■ounces simple syrup, teaspoonful every hour, is indicated where 
there is loose cough, especially children and old people, inabil- 
ity to expectorate, or cough up the mucus ; a discharge of 
gleety mucus, or fluid, from nose, which excoriates the parts. 

Belladonna is the remedy in spasmodic cough, worse at 
night; wakes from sleep, constricted sensation in throat, child 
crys when coughing, the appearance of dust or down causing 
a constant tickling, with an irresistable desire to cough ; 
face hot and red, with throbbing headache. 

Bryonia is indicated in the dry cough preceded by tickling 
or creeping in the stomach and vomiting food ; cough at night 
in bed, stitches in chest when coughing or breathing deep ; 
sensation, when coughing, as if head and chest would be torn 
to pieces; dry, hard stools and patient very irritable. 

Capsicum is the remedy in red, sore throat, with a burning 
sensation; throbbing pain in chest; shuddering and chilliness 
up the back ; headache and inclination to Vomit during cough. 

Chamomile is used where there is a dry, tickling cough, 
worse at night, even during sleep, especially in children; 
hoarseness and rattling in throat ; one cheek red and the other 
pale ; child very cross and wants to be carried all the time. 

Drosera (sundew) is given in 10 to 30 drop doses every 
one or two hours where the couo'h is loose, with vellow ex- 



192 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

pectoration, hoarse, bass voice ; spasmodic, nervous, sympathetic 
cough. 

Bichromate of potassium, 1 to 2 grains (trituated with 
sugar of milk 1 to 10), or 15 to 30 drops to a gobletful of water; 
teaspoonful every 2 to 4 hours, where there is a rattling in chest, 
the cough with thick, bluish, stringy, lumpy, tough, tenacious 
mucus; pain in breast, darting through between the shoulders, 
during cough. 

Sambucus (Elder). This is a common remedy in some 
sections of the country and as it is harmless, it can be used 
at pleasure. It has been employed in profuse debilitating 
sweats ; suffocative cough in children, seems as if he would 
choke; cough w^orse at or after midnight. 

Trifolium pratense (Red Clover) is employed in spas- 
modic coughs, as W'hooping cough and measles. Irritable 
states of the throat or bronchia and lungs. Dose, 1 to 10 
drops. A tea made from the stems and blossoms and sweet- 
ened may be taken at pleasure. 

Rumex Crispus (Yellow dock), 1 to 3 drop doses is especi- 
ally useful in cough where there is a raw feeling behind the 
•sternum, aggravated by cool air and at night. 

Cough, though only a symptom, is often a very prominent 
one, calling for special treatment. Persons subject to cough 
will derive much benefit from frequent bathing in cold ivater 
and thoroughly rubbing the body. Drinking freely of cold 
water or Gum Arabic water, in which a few drops of lemon 
juice has been dissolved, will often have good effect. r4ood 
ventilation in the sleeping apartment is very essential and 
all dust and smoke avoided. The diet should be simple and 
easily digested. 

Whooping' Cough is a disease chiefly of childhood, one 
attack generally removing any further susceptibility ; con- 
tagious; the result of a little wiiite speck, sometimes as large, 
or larger, than a millet seed, on and near the middle of the 
cord under the tongue. 

They are sometimes dark and at other times white with 
a black speck in the center. The little seed-like substance 
seems to form a slit across the top through which the growth 
protrudes from the bottom upwards and as it advances, it 



THEREFLECTOR 19S 

becomes larger and frequently develops to the size of a wheat 
grain or small pea. 

To affect a cure, a little full strength carbolic acid and 
pulverized burnt alum is necessary. The mouth open and 
tongue elevated, with a very fine feather, dip in the acid and 
touch the spot, repeat by again dipping in the acid, then 
touch the alum and then the spot. Continue this every two 
hours during the day, lengthening time as the case improves. 
The acid is almost painless and no sore will follow its use. 

Cramps — This is a sudden involuntary and painful con- 
traction of a muscle or muscles. It is frequently experienced 
in the loAver extremities ; occasionally, it affects the whole 
body. The attacks frequently occur at night and during 
sleep. 

Treatment — Colocynth, 2 to 5 drops to 4 ounces of water;, 
teaspoonful repeated every few minutes in cramps of the ab- 
domen and calves of the legs. 

Camphor is the remedy where the patient cramps all 
over, both inside and out, with cold sensations. 

Hyoscyamus Niger (Henbane) is indicated in cramps, all 
over, following an overheat ; 1 to 5 drops every thirty minutes^ 
till relief or its action flushes the skin. 

Nux vomica, 1 to 2 drops every one or two hours where 
the cramps in the calves descend to the soles of the feet, 
especially at night. 

Veratrum Album (White hellebore), 5 to 10 drops to four 
ounces of water; teaspoonful doses not oftener than every half 
or hour, where cramps are mostly in calves, pain in limbs as 
after excessive fatigue ; where the patient is predisposed to 
cramps at night, will receive great benefit from a dose at 
night taken for a w^eek. 

Friction and a bath in hot mustard water will generally 
give relief during an attack. Where the cramp involves the 
stomach, a copious draught of hot water and hot fomentations 
applied externally will afford speedy relief. Persons subject 
to cramps should take cold baths and make free use of a flesh, 
brush. 

Croup — As is well known there are two forms of this 
disease, which are termed false and true or catarrhal audi 



194 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

membranous or psuedo-membranous. Each will be considered 
separately. 

Spasmodic or false croup is an inflammation of the mucous 
membrane of the larynx, or the entrance of the upper airpas- 
sages, characterized by paroxysmal coughing, difficulty of 
breathing and attacks of threatening suffocation. The disease 
is frequently ushered in with a chill and followed by a rise 
of temperature. The child sometimes cries with a shrill voice, 
showing the vocal cords are on high tension, or perhaps it may 
be the reverse and the voice hoarse, showing a thickening of 
the cords and a state of congestion. 

Treatment — Where there is dry, hot skin and restlessness 
and the child cries with a frown on the face from pain in the 
throat; loud breathing during expiration, but not during in- 
spiration; every expiration ending in a hoarse, hacking cough. 
Aconite 6 to 10 drops to glass of water ; teaspoonf ul every half 
to every hour till fever and inflammation is reduced. 

Belladonha is indicated in great soreness of throat, when 
touched, child seems as if it would suffocate ; head hot, eyes 
red and face flushed ; dry, spasmodic, betrking cough, 5 to 10 
drops to a glass of water; teaspoonful every one or two 
hours. 

Chamomile is the remedy where there is a catarrhal condi- 
tion, with much hoarseness, wheezing and rattling of mucus 
in trachea ; dry, short, croupy cough, worse at night, even 
during sleep, child cross, one cheek red and the other pale. 
One to five drops. 

Hepar sulphur in 1 to 2 grain doses every 20 or 30 minutes, 
until the breath becomes fully saturated, which can readily 
be recognized on the breath and as some say, "Smells like 
rotten eggs." The indications are given as a loose rattling, 
choking cough ; air passages seem clogged with mucus ; violent 
fits of coughing, as if the child would suffocate or vomit; 
child wants to remain covered and coughs when any part of 
the body gets cold; lies in a stupor and sweats profusely. 

Phosphorus, though an active poison, j^et it has a place 
to fill and acts well, where indicated. To 4 ounces of water 
add 15 drops to 1 dram and give in teaspoonful doses every 
half to every hour where there is great hoarseness with sore- 



THEREFLECTOR 195 

ness of throat and cannot talk on account of great pain; 
trembling of whole body when coughing; shortness of breath, 
which otherwise has a natural sound; hoarseness with a ten- 
dency to relapse. 

Tartar emetic is the remedy in conditions of sore throat, 
with wheezing, difficult breathing, with every cough, a sound 
as if a large quantity of loose mucus lay in throat, but none 
comes up; breathing very difficult, and gives a short hoarse, 
shrill or whistling sound; head thrown back, great anxiety 
and prostration, the chest expands with difficulty. 

In those cases occurring after midnight child arouses with 
a hoarse croup cry, aconite 5 to 6 drops and 10 drops of ipecac 
to a half glass of water ; a teaspoonful every half to every hour. 

Where the throat has a dark purplish hue, use belladonna 
instead of ipecac. 

The application of cold cloths or ice bags for forty or 
fifty minutes at a time to reduce the over-congested organs, 
has been favorably recomnrended, while other writers just 
as earnestly approve of the employment of hot packs. In 
either instance, the idea is to cause decrease of blood to the 
parts. Hot packs will be very useful, if the heat be gradually 
increased and continued for some time. Hot foot baths, con- 
tinued for several minutes, and add hot water from time to 
time as it can be borne, having the feet and legs rubbed and 
Avhen taken out. wnpe dry and wrap in warm flannel. Give 
injections of water as hot as can be borne, unless the child 
is very averse to them. Plenty of fresh air must not be over- 
looked, and kept moist with steam and at a temperature of 70 
degrees Fahrenheit. Slippery-elm or Gum Arabic w^ater should 
be given during the attack, later, beef tea, broths and milk 
may be substituted. 

True Croup — This disease may be described as an inflam- 
mation of the mucous membrane of the larynx or the upper 
part of the air-passages, attended with the exudate of a tough 
secretion — the false membrane resembling a dirty, ashy or 
curdle buttermilk, and spasmodic contraction of the glottis — 
characterized by febrile reaction, frequent, ringing cough, dys- 
pnoea, with loud inspiratory sound and altered or extinct voice^ 
showing a strong tendency toward death by asphyxia. The 



196 THEREFLECTOR 

onset may be the same as in false croup, but in the course of 
an hour or two, a loud, brassy cough develops, which steadily 
increases, until toward midnight, when it generally reaches 
its climax or it may slowly develop and continue six or eight 
days. There is a feeling of heat in the throat, huskiness of 
the voice, harsh cough, fever and thirst, the hoarseness soon 
becoming marked, and the cough, having a metallic, croupy 
sound, changes to a stridulous, husky sound; every few minutes 
the child takes a stridulous or long, deep inspiration, the voice 
becoming more and more husky. The cough at first frequent 
becomes more and more frequent and is finally followed by 
a spasm of larnyx. Great dyspnoea then comes on and the 
child, in its endeavors to cough up the membrane, which is 
obstructing its breathing clutches about its throat and tosses 
about in bed. These symptoms increase in severity as the 
membrane is formed in the throat, until the voice is weakened 
and the inspiration through the narrow glottis gives rise to 
a peculiar crowing sound. The next morning the indications 
are better, only to react and become worse in the evening 
and alternating from better to worse till it reaches the climax, 
on an average, about the third day. The difference between 
the false and true croup is shown in the way each develops. 
True croup progresses gradually, the symptoms develop slowly ; 
false croup begins suddenly in a spasmodic way and does not 
steadily increase. If false or spasmodic croup is unchecked 
in its onset, it may gradually progress and develop into true 
croupous laryngitis. If, instead of improvement, the case tends 
tov/ard a fatal termination, the suffocative attacks become 
more frequent, expectoration is absent, the voice and cough 
cease to be audible, although efforts at coughing and speaking 
are visible, the difficulty of breathing continues, the respira- 
tions become more frequent and shallow, but without whistling 
and stridor; cyanosis deepens, the countenance assumes a dif- 
ferent look, the eyes become dull and nearly closed, the symp- 
toms of depression, the pulse becomes rapid and weak, the 
surface covered with a cold, clammy sweat, the legs and 
arms cold, stupor and insensibility more marked, the child 
dying of carbonic acid poisoning or asphyxia. 



THEREFLECTOR 197 

The duration of true croups about one week, rarely con- 
tinuing as long as ten days. 

Membranous croup is a very dangerous disease, the death 
rate in some instances running as high as 75 per cent. There 
is little hope when severe and continued dyspnoea occurs with 
frequent suffocative attacks, frequently becoming fatail in 
twenty-four or forty-eight hours. 

Treatment — The indications for treatment are to detach 
the false membrane, to prevent its . formation, to check the 
spasmodic attacks of the airpassages, and to maintain the 
strength. 

To detach and remove the membrane, emetics are of thi 
highest utility, in some instances ipecac and lobelia in small 
doses frequently repeated until the little patient graduallv 
vomits, being necessary only where the membrane is heav^ 
and breathing laborous. 

To prevent its formation, the little patient should be placed 
in a tent-bed so that it may inhale the fumes from a bucket 
of water to which a pound of lime and a tablespoonful of 
the spirits of turpentine should be added. The little tent-bed 
is thus filled with vapor, which is inhaled by the child. The 
lime and turpentine will aid in the detachment of the mem- 
brane and assist in preventing its development. The fumes 
should be inhaled ten or fifteen minutes at a time and repeated 
every four or five hours. The steaming process could be in- 
creased in its effects by the administration of small doses 
of ipecac for a few minutes before the seance, which is a non- 
depressing emetic. 

If the tongue shows a dirty, or gray-ashy color, one-eighth 
grain of podophyllum and one grain of sulphite of soda should 
be given every two hours until the bowels become free and 
the tongue clean. The powders are given to act on the bowels 
and help to excrete the poisons and should precede the fumi- 
gation with one or two doses given every two hours. The 
bowels should be flushed with hot water, to which five or six 
drops of carbolic acid is added. 

Aconite is the child sedative and is indicated where there 
is an inflammatory condition, dry, hot skin, great restlessness ; 
on attempting to swallow the child cries as if from pain in 



198 THEREFLECTOR 

the throat; loud breathing on expiration but not on inspira- 
tion; every expiration ending in a hoarse, hacking cough. 
Dose, five to ten drops to four ounces of M^ater; teaspoonful 
every hour. 

Bichromate of potassium, 15 drops to a dram added to a 
goblet of water and given in teaspoonful doses every two to 
four hours, or one to two grains of the trituation, 1 to 10 of 
sugar of milk. It is the one remedy in true membranous croup. 
The disease develops slowly, at first slight dyspnoea with hoarse 
eroupy cough; the breathing has the sound of the air passing 
through a metallic tube; hoarse, dry, barking cough, tonsils 
and whole throat red and swollen, and covered with the 
pseudo-membrane; head thrown back; violent wheezing and 
rattling in trachea, heard at a distance. 

A syrup made of two teaspoonfuls of pulverized red puc- 
coon root, V^ pint of best apple vinegar, 8 tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar; boil all together and strain. Dose one-fourth to 
one teaspoonful given warm every half to every hour, accord- 
ing to the severity of the case. The body should be bathed in 
strong soda water, and the throat inflamed or heavily con- 
gested with fever, 5 drops of veratrum viride to 20 teaspoonfuls 
of water and a teaspoonful given every hour for a child one 
year old. The little patient can be sponged off occasionally, 
will answer as well. A poke-root poultice, applied where there 
is swelling, can be made to blister, if a little turpentine is 
applied. A teaspoonful of Jimson weed seed, bruised or ground, 
and stewed down in a pint of old bacon grease or lard, strained 
and the throat oiled with the ointment and a warm cloth 
bound around is an excellent application in any throat disease. 
It should not be used too extravagantly, as it might produce 
temporary paralysis. 

Diarrhoea — We may define this condition as a frequent, 
loose alvin evacuation of the bowels, without tenesmus; due 
to functional or organic derangement of the small intestines, 
produced by causes acting either locally or constitutionally. 
Those acting locally, such as indigestion, indigestible food, 
impure food and water, irritating matters or secretions poured 
into the bowels, cause the flux by a direct irritation of the 
mucous surface. Attacks of diarrhoea due to constitutional 



THEREFLECTOR ISJy 

derangement may be secondary to such diseases as tubercu- 
losis, alburminuria, typhoid fever, or the disturbances of the 
functions of other organs, giving rise to various fluxes. The 
tongue is usually heavily coated, an unpleasant sensation at the 
stomach, loss of appetite and frequently a tendency to head- 
ache. As the diarrhoea continues the strength materially 
weakens. Though there is no fever at any time. There is a 
bilious form which results from hyper-secretion of bile, and 
may arise from most any common cause. It is rather a common 
form of the disease in summer and in hot climates and in in- 
temperate persons. There is sometimes tension in the right side 
and soreness on pressure and considerable griping pain, at times 
preceding the discharges from the bowels. In many cases, 
the skin is dry and harsh and the urinary secretions scanty 
and high colored ; the tongue coated, a bitter taste in the mouth 
and loss of appetite, with a sensation of nausea and disgust. 
Atorry of the intestinal mucous membrarre gives rise to diar- 
rhoea by the relaxed vessels allowing their contents to es- 
cape. In some cases, the operations are large arrd watery, )r 
in some cases, water arrd mucus mixed, unattended with pairr 
or suffering of any kirrd. There are, at times, involuntary 
actions, allowing but little time to prepare for them. There is 
loss of appetite to some extent, the skin cool, pale, soft and 
relaxed, with perspiration, the urine light colored and of low, 
specific gravity. Increased mucoirs secretion gives rise to that 
form of diarrhoea, tenrred catarrhal. It occurs more fre- 
quently irr old persons and children, though it may affect 
all ages. At first it gives rise to but little disturbance, but 
as it continues the strength fails, the skin becomes dry and 
harsh, the appetite much impaired, with great loss of strength 
and eiiraciation. There is an imperfect form of digestion most 
frequently observed among children and rarely in adults. 
It is evidently caused by imperfect action of the stomach and 
increased movements of the bowels. The appetite is usually 
good and sometimes voracious and there is no manifested 
disease of any other parts of the body. Diarrhoea is very 
easily known from other bowel troubles from the character of 
the discharges and symptoms and this should always be done, 
as the injudicious use of astringents, in trying to check the 



200 THEREFLECTOR 

bowels, sometimes give rise to serious difficulties. The failure 
of the food to digest and become assimilated, sets up a form 
of fermentation that would be futile as well as dangerous to 
check it. 

Treatment — Diarrhoeas are classified under two forms and 
the nature of those forms should be the guide to a successful 
treatment and all complaints of this kind will most likely be 
one or the other. The irritant diarrhoea will cause uneasiness 
in the bowels, uneasiness in their action, the evacuations fail 
to give relief, the skin is dry, the tissues are shrunken and 
pinched and possibly some fever. 

Aconite 5 to 10 drops according to fever, and ipecac, 10 
to 20 drops, to a half a glass of water ; teaspoonful every hour. 
This is not expected to check the discharges, but to correct 
the irritation and the bowels will check of themselves. In 
atonic diarrhoea, the discharges are free and not easily con- 
trolled ; there are sensations of puffiness and if the hand is 
placed upon the abdomen, it is felt to be full, the skin is unusu- 
ally pale and smooth. 

Nux vomica, 5 to 10 drops and ipecac, 10 to 20 drops, to 
4 ounces of water; teaspoonful every hour. 

If the diarrhoea is persistent, tongue coated with a dirty- 
yellowish coat, podophyllin, one-twentieth of a grain to one 
grain of sulphite of soda every three hours or it can be given 
witn subnitrate of bismuth instead of the soda. 

Where the tongue is elongated with red tip and edges, 
Liquor Bismuth, one-fourth to one teaspoonful every three 
hours, more especially if heart-burn or water brash is present. 
Where the dicharges are frequent and the tongue natural 
in size Avith coat removed in patches, triturated charcoal in 
grain doses, alternated with the aconite and ipecac. Where 
there is a brown coating on the tongue with sordes on teeth 
and lips, Baptisia from 10 to 20 drops every three hours. 
If there is marked tenesmus and the discharges excoriates or 
turns the parts red. Iris versicolor, one drop every hour. Where 
there are sharp, keen, cutting pains causing patient to 
bend over, 5 drops of colocynth, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour. Where there is a sensation of heaviness and fullness, low 
down, 2 to 10 drops of witchhazel every three hours, alternate 



THEREFLECTOR 201 

with 5 to 10 drops of collinsonia. If the tongue is pallid and 
dirty, the poison must be overcome with sodium sulphite 1 
grain to 15 every three hours. If the tongue is deep red, mu- 
riatic acid in glass of water enough to make a pleasant drink 
and a little swallowed every two or three hours will be benefi- 
cial. Benzoic acid is indicated where the actions are watery 
and looking ashy, or dirty like soap suds. Dose : 1 to 15 grains 
every three hours. Pulsatilla in 3 to 5 drop doses every two 
or three hours is an excellent iremedy and is used where the 
diarrhoea is worse in warm room, craves cool air, despondent, 
inclined to fear or cry. 

Rheum (rhubarb) 1 or 2 drops every hour, where the ac- 
tions are green, brown or fermented; sour smelling of child; 
colicky pains before and during stool and tenesmus or strain- 
ing afterwards; the whole body has a soar smell that cannot be 
removed by washing; diet passes off undigested. 

Magnesium sulphite (epsom salts) a teaspoonful to 20 teas- 
poonfuls of water; teaspoonful of the solution every 2 hours; 
to clear out all undigested substances. All food should be dis- 
continued for 24 hours and slippery elm water freely given and 
continued until the bowels are clean. 

Bowel trouble, like all disease, require attention with cool 
judgment and patience. Strict rules of diet should be observed ; 
light exercise in the open air, suitable clothing, flannel next the 
skin, tepid sponge baths, with salt water or vinegar, according 
to acid or alkaline indications, regular habits and mental quiet- 
ude. During an attack, the patient should be kept quiet and 
be placed in a horizontal position to rest both mind and body. 
All discharges should be removed at once. Keep free ventila- 
tion and apply warm fomentations to the bowels if they are 
tender and painful. 

The diet should be taken sparingly. Over-eating has 
proven fatal. Fresh unboiled milk is the best diet that can be 
given; well boiled rice, oatmeal gruel, mutton or beef broth, 
thickened with flour or rice, fresh crackers broken into milk 
or made into gruel, barley water, and in some cases beef tea 
may be an appropriate diet. Chronic cases should have a more 
generous diet. Milk is one of the best articles; tender beef, 



202 THE REFLECTOR 

mutton, chicken, soft boiled eggs and good ripe fruits may be 
taken. 

Diphtheria — This disease is an acute, constitutional, in- 
fectious and contagious malady, beginning by an affection of 
the throat, characterized by a false membrane on a mucous 
surface or on abraded skin, and can be conveyed from one per- 
son to another. The lesion being mostly located in the upper 
respiratory tract. In grave forms of this disease there is a 
highly septic condition of the parts. It sometimes spreads to 
the nose or may follow the mucous membrane into the stomach, 
or through the larynx, trachea, and bronchi and when it at- 
tacks the latter it resembles croup and is sometimes mistaken 
for it. Age has a great influence on the prevalence of the dis- 
ease. Infants under 12 months are comparatively exempt from 
its ravages and in most persons over 14 years of age. Direct 
infection is from the one affected to the other by breathing the 
atmosphere immediately surrounding the patient, inhaling the 
breath, or receiving the mucus or saliva into the mouth or 
nose during an act of coughing, sneezing or spitting on the 
part of the patient. Kissing a diphtheria patient should be 
avoided. The indirect mode of infection is not so easily 
traced, yet it is an accepted theory that it may be transmitted 
by dogs, cats, chickens or rabbits, which being exposed to the 
contagion convey it to persons removed from the direct source 
of infection. Diphtheria may be endemic, epidemic or sporadic 
in its manifestations in a community. The mode of manifesta- 
tion is largely due to the density and numerical strength of 
the settlement. Where large numbers are congregated in large 
cities, the contagion, coming like a tidal wave and carrying 
many away in its course. The sporadic or spontaneous cases 
often caused by the germs, which suddenly become virulent and 
give rise to the isolated attacks of the disease. The diphtheric 
membrane differs from all other forms of inflammation in that 
the exudation is not only upon, but within the substances of 
the mucous membrane, thus becoming a part of the tissues. At 
first there is redness, which may begin in any part of the 
throat, associated with swelling and an increased secretion of 
viscid mucus. The redness spreads over the entire mucous 
surface when the membrane makes its appearance. The exu- 



THEREFLECTOR ^ 203 

date may form in one or more spots, such as one tonsil, the soft 
palate or back of the fauces, which, however, speedily extends 
and coalesces, forming extensive patches or covering the entire 
surface. The patches are of variable thickness, which is in- 
creased by successive layers being formed underneath, as it 
develops from below upwards by the lower layers. The color 
may be gray, white or slightly yellow, brown or blackish and 
generally has the appearance of the yellow of an egg. The 
different colors are only indicative of the severity of the dis- 
ease. 

The symptoms will follow the law of all contagious dis- 
eases, the intensity will be in proportion to the gravity of the 
attack. The onset may be mild, with rigor, followed by mod- 
erate fevers, headache, languor, loss of appetite, stiffness of the 
neck, tenderness about the angles of the jaw or slight soreness 
of the throat. In the more severe form the fever will range 
from 103 degrees to 105 degrees, pain in ear, aching of the 
limbs, weakness, painful swelling and swelling of the neck. The 
appetite is poor, tongue coated, sometimes the diphtheritic 
membrane appearing upon it, the bowels may be either regular 
or slightly relaxed, the pulse at first full and strong, soon be- 
come either frequent or slow, but easily compressed. The local 
symptoms in a majority of cases are associated with the throat. 
The patient complains of a frequent and persistent desire to 
hawk and clear the throat. On inspection the fauces are seen 
to be red and swollen and covered, more or less, with the diph- 
theritic membrane, sometimes the tonsils and uvula are greatly 
swollen and spotted with the exudate. Sometimes fragments of 
the membrane will be coughed up, giving a fetid odor to the 
breath. When the membrane spreads to the larynx, voice be- 
comes very hoarse or lost, the cough becomes croupy, the 
breathing heavier and more labored, the muscles become para- 
lyzed, obtsructing swallowing, fluids regurgitate through the 
nose, death by asphyxia. Duration ranges from two to four- 
teen days, the average time about nine days. One attack does 
not prevent another. 

Treatment — There is no specific plan of medication and 
remedies must be selected to protect the patient against the 
weakening influences and systemic poisoning. 



204 THEREFLECTOR 

Aconite in the forming stage (see croup) where there is Ji 
dry, hot skin and very weak pulse, dark redness of the fauces^ 
burning, pricking sensation in the throat, great fear and 
anxiety of mind. 

Belladonna may be added to the aconite in the forming 
stage where there is great dryness of the fauces, tonsils bright 
red and swollen, very restless, feels drowsy and cannot sleep, 
starts suddenly in bed, congested head, with throbbing of 
carotids, eyes injected, delirium. 

Baptisia is the remedy where the membrane has a tinge of 
brown, the tissues full, the pulse is frequent, full, but easily 
oppressed, though sometimes weak, surface presents a dusky 
discoloration. There is sometimes a brownish, unpleasant dis- 
charge from the nose, and a disagreeable crust forms upon the 
lips and nose. Dose : 10 drops added to 4 ozs. of water with 5 
drops of aconite ; teaspoonful every hour. 

Rhus Tox — (Poison oak) 5 drops; aconite, 5 drops, water 4 
ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. Indicated where there is a 
sharp stroke of pulse, pain in forehead and left orbit, the 
tongue showing small pimples at tip or over the dorsum ; more 
or less burning in throat and sometimes limited portions of the 
surface. 

Phytolacca (polk root) has its place in the treatment of 
this disease and is a remedy of great utility where the tissues 
are full, the throat moist, the external glands enlarged or swol- 
len and the mouth, as well as the throat, is sore. Dose : 10 to 
20 drops and 5 drops of aconite to a half goblet of water ; teas- 
poonful every hour. 

Sulphite of soda may be given from 3 to 5 grains every 3 
hours when the tongue is pallid and dirty and the throat moist 
and inclined to suppurate. Where the membrane has been 
partly swallowed, causing disturbances of the stomach, hydras- 
tis canadensis in 1 or 2 drop doses three or four times a day 
will give good results. 

Chlorate of potash is indicated in a death-like order of the 
breath. Given in doses of 2 to 5 grains and use as a gargle. 

Where the tongue is red and the membranes dry, dilute 
muriatic acid, half ounce and simple syrup 2 ounces ; teaspoon- 



THEREFLECTOR 205 

fill given in water as a drink. Tiie baptisia should alternate the 
acid and each continued every three hours. 

As soon as the system begins to respond to the action of 
the sedatives, so that the tongue is moist, pulse soft and the 
skin showing evidence of seoretion, small doses of quinine 
would be admissible, given every four hours. 

Ten grains each of salicylic acid and borax to 4 ozs. of 
water is a topical remedy used as a gargle or spray. 

Clorine water is one of the best mouth or throat washes 
extant. It is is a microbe killer. Take a four ounce vial and 
put into it 1 dram of chlorate of potash and pour in 1 dram of 
full strength muiiatie acid; cork the bottle to catch the gas, 
then after it is dissolved pour in soft or pure water. A teas- 
spoonful in an ounce of water every 4 hours for adult. Ma.y 
gargle at pleasure. 

Antitoxin has been placed in the list of medicine as a 
great benefactor and it has maintained its position well along 
the line of medical jurisprudence, but, like other treatments, 
failed in many cases. In mixed or the phlegmonous type, char- 
acterized by great inflammatory reaction involving the pseu- 
domembrane, with some other pathogenic organisms and their 
poisons, it has little or no effect in checking the ravages of this 
type of infection. The mortality is highest from the second to 
the sixth year. 

The dose of antitoxin varies according to the time the dis- 
ease has run and its severity, 2,000 to 3,000 units, in ordinary 
cases, to a child over one year old, 3,000 to 5,000 units in severe 
laryngeal cases of any age, 1,500 to 2,000 units in an ordinary 
case to a child under one year old, to be repeated in 12 hours,, 
or less, if symptoms increase for worse, and in 18 to 24 hours, 
if there is no decided change. A third dose may be given if 
needed in 24 hours. An ordinary hj^podermic syringe, steril- 
ized, is suitable for giving the injections. The hip, thigh or 
breast and abdomen may be points where the injection is to be 
made. The skin should be thoroughly cleansed with water and 
a little carbolic acid or alcohol. In a few hours after the in- 
jection the membrane becomes blanched, the dirty color less 
marked and the more spongy and puffed, gradually loosening 
around the edges, rolls up and detaches itself, leaving an irri- 



206 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

tated membrane. If it shows signs of returning, repeat the 
dose. The temperature rapidly returns to normal, except in 
cases of mixed infection, it drops more slowly, and if it does 
not fall in a gradual way, the second dose should be given, 
provided no other cause is discernable. Tracheotomy and intu- 
bation are resorted to in some cases, but as they belong to 
the action of surgery they are not discussed here. 

Turpentine, as a local tieatment, has been successful in 
many cases by swabbing out the throat every hour. It has 
succeeded where other things failed. Dilute alcohol used as a 
gargle or spray is one of the best. Lime M-ater has its merits, 
as well as carbolic acid and the tincture of iodine. Burning a 
mixture of tar and turpentine and letting the patient inhale 
the fumes is recommended as detaching the membrane and 
giving the little sufferer relief. Cold water or bits of ice should 
be given to allay thirst. If the patient has difficult breathing, 
steam from good vinegar inhaled and a cloth wet with same ap- 
plied to the neck cold has frequently been of good service. If 
patient has appetite, it might be that a little beef tea, mutto^i 
or chicken broth should be taken liberally. Good fresh milk is 
an excellent article of diet in this disease. Ice cream or ice 
water may be taken in moderate quantities at short intervals. 
The room should be well ventilated and at a temperature of 70 
degrees. F. and all clothing should be kept thoroughly cleansed. 

Dysentery — This disease has several appellations and is 
known as colitis, colonitis, ulcerative colitis and bloody flux. 

It is an acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the 
large intestine, either croupous or catarrhal in character, 
characterized by fever, tormina, tenesmus and frequent, small, 
mucus and bloody stools, t develops either in the sporadic, 
endemic, or epidemic form. The sporadic and endemic form is 
mostly caused by atmospheric changes, such as hot days and 
cool nights ; also from malarial attacks and rarely from errors 
in diet. The epidemic form prevails in armies and jails, and 
tenement houses, propagated by decomposing matter and un- 
favorable hygienic surroundings, but is not classed as a con- 
tagious disease. 

The inflammatory process, beginning its attack at the 
valve of the caecum or at the juncture of the large and small 



THEREFLECTOR 207 

intestines, spreads rapidly over the entire colon, its greatest 
intensity being at the turns of the affected bowels. The dis- 
ease often begins with free, loose stools of a rather diarrhoeal 
character, but which soon changes to the characteristic flux. 
At the onset there may be jelly-like evacuations streaked with 
blood. The jelly matter increases and is followed with much 
tormina and tenesmus. The mucous discharges frequently as- 
sume a dirty, reddish or gray color, like the scrapings of flesh 
and are seen floating in a thin, bloody serous fluid. The quan- 
tity of blood varies from a mere tinge to pure fluid. Where 
whole shreds or pieces of tough mucus slough off from the 
bowels and where the discharges assume a brownish or choco- 
late color and having a death-like odor, it indicates an ichorous 
ulceration of the bowels. "When fecal matter begins to pass, 
the inflammation gradually subsides, although there may still 
be tenesmus and tormina, and possibly mucus in the discharges 
lor several days. If proper treatment is carried out the patient 
will soon be convalescent. Where there are copious hemorrh- 
ages, or thin, watery, chocolate-colored, death-like odor of the 
stools, it forebodes a fatal termination. 

Treatment — Where the most active form, beginning w^heir 
days are hot and nights cool, followed by high fever, dry, hot 
skin, painful, bloody actions, aconite 10 drops, gelsemium 15 
to 20 drops, water 4 ounces ; teaspoonf ul every hour. Ipecac 
may be used instead of the gelsemium, if the hemorrhage is 
passive. As the improvement begins, the time should be ex- 
tended. 

Aloes drops 5 to 10, water 4 ounces ; teaspoonful everr 
hour is indicated where stools are bloody, jelly-like mucus, a 
sense of fullness and weight in pelvis and pain round navel, 
tenesmus and burning gurgling in bowels like water flowing 
out of a bottle, large hemorrhoids, Arnica is the remedy, drops 
10 to 20 every one or two hours where there is blood or mucus 
caused by mechanical injuries, bitter taste in mouth, eructa- 
tions, like bad eggs, offensive breath. 

Baptisia (wild indigo) 5 to 10 drops, water 4 ounces; teas- 
spoonful every hour, violently, colicky pains in regions of the 
stomach, tenesmus, flesh of whole body sore, chilliness, sweat, 
urine and stools are all extremely fetid. 



208 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

Belladonna 1 to 10 drops, water, 4 ounces; teaspoonful 
every hour where there is great tenesmus, greenish, slimy, 
bloody stools, clutching pain in abdomen of spasmodic charac- 
ter relieved by holding breath and bearing down, abdomen, 
hot and sore to pressure; sudden jumping in sleep, mouth and 
throat dry with bitter or no thirst. 

Colocynth 1 to 5 drops, water 4 ounces ; teaspoonful every 
hour; indicated where there is bloody mucus, like scrapings 
from the bowels, violent cutting pains, mostly around navel, 
causing patient to bend over, relief after action, abdomen puff- 
ed and painful on pressure, worse after a meal from fruit and 
vexation. 

Dioscorea (wild yam) 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls, hot water half 
teacupful ; teaspoonful everj'^ ten or twenty minutes where the 
stools are like albumen, but lumpy, pain in back, radiating up- 
wards and downwards, like colic. Podophyllum 1 to 5 drops 
every two or three hours, yellow coated tongue, discharges 
bloody and green mucus, with little or no pain, child toss head 
from side to side, gagging, retching, loud rumbling in bowels. 

Pulsatilla 1 to 5 drops every one to three hours, blood- 
streaked mucus, rumbling and cutting colic relieved by stool, 
chilliness and pain in back, thick, yellow coat on tongue, bitter 
taste, no thirst, worse in evening and night. 

Rhus Tox. — (poison oak) 1 to 10 drops, water, 4 ounces; 
teaspoonful every three hours, tongue shows pimples on tip, 
stools reddish mucus or jelly like, colicky pain before and 
after action, pain runs in streaks, down the limbs. 

The patient should be kept quiet in bed, a bed-pan should 
be used to avoid getting up. All discharges should be disin- 
fected. (See diarrhoea.) Small injections of clear starch 
water or white of an egg beaten up in the water is beneficial. 
For the distressing tenesmus, laudanum 3 to 10 drops, according 
to age and repeated every hour till relief. 

Ice or cold water excites the bowels into action and causing 
considerable pain, necessitating warm drinks, tea, as sassafras 
and slippery elm water may be drank freely. Sweet, ripe 
peaches, plums, grapes and blackberries, freed of their seeds 
and hulls, are the only fruit considered safe, light diet re- 
quired. 



T H E R E P L E C T O R 20'J 

Dysmenorrhoea — This disease is an acute inflammation ot* 
the uterine organ or its appendages, characterized by structu- 
ral changes or flexions of the uterus, congestion of the pelvic 
organs and head, with fever, which is thought to be produced 
by a thickening of the peritoneal lining of the ovaries and the 
consequent difficult perforation of the Graffan follicle, the 
formation of a false membrane between the mucous coat and 
the parenchyma of the uterus in consequence, the loosen mem- 
brane is thrown off and discharged, a morbid sensibility of the 
nervous system controlling the uterine organ, occasionally de- 
velops, called neuralgic dysmenorrhoea. The menses are at- 
tended with extreme pain in the uterus, back, limbs and some- 
times with neuralgic pains in various parts, cramps in lower 
part of abdomen are of frequent occurrence. 

Treatment — Where there is a congestive form, alternating 
with cold and hot flashes, the discharges of a bright red color, 
aconite 10 drops to water 4 ounces; teaspoonful every hour 
with Pulsatilla 3 drops every two hours. Ammonia carb. 5 to 
10 grains where the menses are too early and abundant, pre- 
ceded by griping colic and loss of apppetite, black and clotted 
discharges, passing off with pains in the abdomen, pale face, 
sadness and toothache. 

Apis mellifica (Tr. honey bee) 3 to 10 drops, water 4 ozs. ; 
teaspoonful every three hours where the discharges are scanty, 
slimy blood, suppressed menses, with congested or inflamed 
ovaries and the sensation weight in ovarian region. 

Belladonna 10 drops to ■ water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour, the pains precede the flow with congestion of head and 
confusion of sight, bothered with frightful dreams, becomes de- 
lirious, bite and tear things, face flushed and bloated, strong 
bearing down pains of an expulsive character, heart palpates. 

Caulophyllum (blue cohosh) 5 to 15 drops every three 
hours where there is a spasmodic bearing down pains, with 
scanty flow, after pains, false pains, uterine pain from cold, 
rheumatism, threatened miscarriage or premature labor. 

Chamailerium luteum (unicorn root) 1 drop every two 
or three hours, useful where there is atony, displacement, ster- 
ility, amenorrhoea, leucorrhoea, and menorrhagia due to a lax 



210 THEREFLECTOR 

and anemic habit. It increases digestion, promotes assimila- 
tion and thereby improves the general health. 

Cimicifuga (black cohosh) 5 to 10 drops, water 4 ozs., tea- 
spoonful every hour, indicated in a scanty or profuse flow of 
clotted blood, muscular pains of a tensive, aching character, 
especially of rheumatic origin, labor-like pains, cramps, ten- 
derness over the stomach, low-spirited and very sensitive. 

Nux vomica 1 to 5 drops every three hours where the 
menses return too soon, discharges thick and clotted, great 
pain in back and loins, soreness across pubis as if bruised, fre- 
quent desire to urinate, constipation, with frequent urging, 
hard, difficult stools. 

Senecio aureus (life root) 1 to 15 drops every one to three 
hours, where there is weight and dragging in the pelvis, burn- 
ing and all stages of irritation with capillary engorgement. 

Viburnum opulus (high cranberry) 1 to 15 drops every 
hour, is indicated in muscular cramps of the abdomen and 
legs, so annoying in frequency, false pains preceding and cramp 
after labor, pains of miscarriage and spasmodic dysmenorrhoea. 

Warm sitz baths for fifteen or twenty minutes, warm fo- 
mentations applied to the lower part of abdomen, hot bottles 
to the feet, and drinking water as hot as can be swallowed, a 
pint at a time is of great benefit. 

Avoid cold draughts of air. 

Good, wholesome diet, fresh air, light exercise and fre- 
quent baths v/ill aid cure. 

Dyspepsia — This disease, like the chameleon, has many 
colors or functional disorders of the stomach, which may be 
primary in their origin and not dependent upon structural 
change. Imperfect digestion is one of the most frequent ail- 
ments we have to consider and requires close observation and 
discrimination for successful treatment. When the stomach 
must bear the attack of all indiscretion of over-eating, lack 
of mastication, gastric and pancreatic juice, defective nervous 
action, a sluggish action of bowels, dyspepsia may arise from 
either one or more of these conditions. Dyspepsia is imperfect 
digestion and from this we have imperfect nutrition and the 
result that flow from it, derangement to a greater or less ex- 
tent of all the functions of the body and loss of flesh and 



THEREFLECTOR 211 

strength. Unpleasant sensation in the regions of the stomach 
are always present in soine degree, but vary according to its 
conditions from burning, soreness, fullness, weight and ten- 
derness on pressure. Dyspepsia may be from an excess of acid 
as manifested in water-brash from a coarse diet; flatulent, as 
in development of gas throughout the abdomen and nervous 
system, seen in hysterical individuals ; irritant, showing the 
tongue small or contracted, red and pointed, vomiting a promi- 
nent symptom, nervous, atonic form, presents all the marked 
nervous phenomena, seen in active business or professional men, 
especially those of thin, spare built or nervous temperament, 
who eat meals rapidly and hurry off to business. Intestinal 
dyspepsia follows as a sequence in the functions of intestinal 
derangement, resulting in a more or less decomposition of the 
chyme, from defects in the pancreatic, bile secretions, or from 
deficient peristalsis, one or more, singly or combined, char- 
acterized by abdominal pain, puf finess, tympanites, some hours 
after meals and nervous purturbation, anemia and emacia- 
tion. Dyspnoea results from pressure, caused by the collection 
of gases, against the diaphragm. The patient is low spirited, 
sleepless, disturbing dreams, headache, vertigo, buzzing in the 
ears, deficient mental application, numbness and tingling in the 
extremities, false pains through the body in marked cases, at- 
tacks of fainting and epileptic attacks. The skin is harsh and 
dry, the bowels sluggish or constipated, the urine is high 
colored, of increased density, decidedly acid and on cooling 
deposits lithates, uric acid and lime. 

Treatment — Proper diet is one of the first things to be 
considered. Such articles of food as are adapted to the pe- 
culiar case. If tobacco is indulged by the force of habit the 
patient should be informed that it is one of the most violent 
poisons and relaxant in nature. It is a prime factor in the 
cause of dyspepsia and should be relinquished, thus doing much 
in the cure of the disease. A glass of fresh sweet milk is most 
suitable in a majority of cases. Bread and milk can be toler^ 
ated by some, while others can use a small quantity of fish, 
fowl, tender beef, mutton or kid, without injury. Where the 
tongue is coated yellow, mouth dry, apthae, bitter belching, 
soreness of stomach, nausea, gaseous eructations, puffiness of 



212 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

bowels, water-brash, jaundice, congestive headache, obstinate 
constipation, disgust for food, bryonia, in doses of 1 to 2 drops 
an hour before meals. 

Ammonia chloride grs. 1 to 20, well diluted, every three 
hours, where there is bitter eructations or taste of food, spit- 
ting up food or bitter, sour water, gnawing in stomach as 
from worms, pain immediately after eating, thick, tenacious 
mucus and duodenal catarrh. Cheledoniilm majus (tetter 
wort) 5 to 10 drops three times a day, indicated where there 
is a gnawing, aching pain in stomach. 

Eczema — This disease is known by many names of dif- 
ferent forms as tetter, salt rheum and scall. It is a non-con- 
tagious inflammation of the skin, characterized by any or 
all of the results of inflammation at once or in succession, 
such as erythema, papules, accompanied by more or less in- 
filtration and itching, terminating in a serous discharge, with 
the formation of crusts, or desquamation, and may be either 
acute or chronic. 

It is a disease common to all spheres of life, age or sex. 
It is possible that a predisposition to eczema may be trans- 
mitted from parent to child. Contact with poison oak, heat, 
cold, prolonged contact of hot fomentations, vaccination, the 
rheumatic and gouty diathesis, deficient urinary secretion, in- 
testinal parasites, gastro-intestinal disorders, dentition and im- 
proper food are the principal causes. 

There is first hyperaemia or congestion of the blood ves- 
sels of the skin and may be limited to small areas of the sur- 
face, as ring-worm. The hyperaemia is soon followed by a 
serious exudation. If the superficial exudation be profuse 
enough to form small drops, and if the epidermis possesses suf- 
ficient resisting power not to give way immediately before it 
vesicles form, producing the variety known as eczema vesi- 
culosum and if the serum be turbid, yellow and purulent, the 
vesicles become pustules, eczema pustulosum; if the serous ex- 
udation be not sufficient to elevate or break through the cuticle, 
instead of either vesicles or pustules forming, there occur dry 
scales, rising from the reddened skin — eczema squamosa. 
Chronic eczema, the skin is sub-acutely inflamed ; is infiltrated, 
thickened, hardened and extends throughout the entire corium, 



THEREFLECTOR 213 

even into the sub-cutaneous connective tissue. The papillae 
are enlarged and may be, at times, distinguished with the naked 
eye. Eczema is the most common of all cutaneous affections, 
with symptoms varying with the particular variety of the af- 
fections and its location, although the general characteristics 
of a catarrhal inflammation are present in all. The most 
constant, annoying and troublesome symptom is the itching, 
at times burning, which varies from that which is simply an- 
noying to that which is almost unendurable. 

Eczema runs its course either as an acute affection, last- 
ing a few weeks, not to return, or to return acutely at wide 
intervals or as is much more frequently the case, it assumes a 
chronic state, continuing with more or less variations for 
months, years or even a life time. 

There are many varieties, but if the following character- 
istic features are observed, a fair understanding may be had: 
There will be inflammation, swelling and edema, thickening 
from cell infiltration, redness, a discharge of moisture, followed 
by crusting, on removal of which a moist surface is presented, 
and itching and burning. Such diseases as erysipelas, herpes 
zoster, seborrhoea and psoriasis ; but in erysipelas there is fe- 
ver, rapid spreading of the inflammation with heat, swelling 
and edema without moisture giving the surface a deep red, 
shining and tense appearance. Herpes may be known by the 
neuralgic pains which are associated with and are never asso- 
ciated with eczema; seborrhoea of the scalp resemble it very 
closely, eczema is usually seated upon a circumscribed patch 
forming dry scales, while seborrhoea covers the scalp uniformly ; 
both, however, are frequent affections. Psoriasis should never 
be mistaken for a typical case of eczema, but chronic eczema, 
with infiltrated, inflammatory scaly patches frequently looks 
very much like psoriasis. 

Treatment — There being no specific for the various forms 
of eczema, the indications are for the removal of the cause, 
where it can be ascertained, if possible and attention given to 
the general health. The diet should be of the most nutritious, 
but easily digested. Fresh air and moderate exercise are es- 
sential elements in the treatment and attention given to ex- 
cretions and secretions. The skin should be kept in a clean 



214 THEREFLECTOR 

and healthy condition. Various soaps should be employed with 
some discretion and no substance should be used that would 
irritate. 

Arsenic (Fowler's solution) 3 to 5 drops three times a 
day is indicated where there is a dry, scalp eruption, burning 
and itching at night, eruption on face or extremities, with a cor- 
rosive discharge, very restless at night, water disagrees, better 
in warm room and warm applications. 

Baryta carbonas (or iodide of barium) grs. 1-100 three 
times a day for children. Swollen glands and scrofulous taint, 
eruption, moist, itching, burning and pricking; chronic sore 
throat with enlarged tonsils, hair falling off, eyes inflamed, 
takes cold easily. 

Belladonna, gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs., teaspoonful every 
hour. Its utility is more readily observed where there is dif- 
fused redness of the skin, burning, itching, sensitive to touch, 
sanguine plethoric temperament, eruption during dentition. 

Clematis virginica (Virgin's bower) gtts. 5 to 10 every 
three hours where there is moist eczema, terrible itching, ves- 
icles break and tend to ulcerate ; eruption on neck and back 
of head ; the eruption looks inflamed during the increasing and 
dry on the decreasing of the moon. 

Dulcamara (bittersweet) gtts. 10 to 30 every two or three 
hours where there is an eruption of vesicles, ceasing to itch 
after scratching, a water fluid oozes from the vesicles and be- 
comes covered with a crust, scrofulous subjects with enlarged 
glands ; symptoms worse by a cold change in weather. 

Rhus tox (poison oak) gts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoon- 
ful every three hours, in raw surfaces, excoriated, thick crust, 
oozing offensive; incessant itching, burning and tingling of 
the parts, burning after scratching; parts feel better moving 
and from warmth in general ; worse in damp weather. 

Stavesacre gtts. 5 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
three hours, indicated where there is an offensive, humid 
vesicles, especially on head and ears of children, scalp sore, 
scratching changes place of itching, skin peels off and hair 
falls out. 

Sulphur, in small quantities, two or three times a day, 
where there is scaly, unhealthy skin, eruption on head and be- 



THEREFLECTOR 215 

hind ears, dry, scabby, offensive, with cracks easily bleeding, 
pleasant itching with soreness after scratching, after* sup- 
pressed eruptions or drying up of old sores. 

Thuja (arbo vitae) gtts. 5 to 30, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every three hours where there is a dry scalp eruption on the 
head, temples, eyes, brows, ears and neck, with itching, ting- 
ling, biting, skin sensitive to touch, burning after scratching, 
dryness of skin, sweat only on uncovered parts, bad effects 
of vaccination. 

Viola Tricolor (wild pansy) gtts. 1 to 15 every two or 
three hours, in eczema, especially on face of infants ; the erup- 
tion the character of humid tetter, discharging a viscid pus ; the 
scabs are of a brownish yellow color and the eruption itches 
violently and scratching gives temporary relief. 

Local Applications — The intense itching may be relieved 
by mixing 5 drops of croton oil with one ounce of glycerine 
and rubbing in the parts 2 or 3 times a day, the tr. rhus tox. 
may take the place of the croton oil, especially when the rem- 
edy is being taken. A solution of bicarbonate of soda, half oz. to 
4 ozs. of water applied to the parts is also efficient. In chronic 
cases bathe parts well, once or twice a day, with warm water 
and mild soap, dry and apply cosmoline. Muriate of ammonia 
gr. 1 to water 1 oz. especially where the eruption is from poison 
oak; full strength arbo vitea or a decoction from the stems 
can be used readily. A stimulant should be discarded. 

Erysipelas — This disease is an acute defect of the blood 
with a nervous reflex characterized by an inflammation of the 
skin in a localized part, generally the face and neck. It may 
occur at any age, though it is more frequent in adults than chil- 
dren. It occurs most frequently in the spring and autumn and 
on persons of a fine delicate skin. Frequently the disease if? 
preceded, or in other cases shortly followed, by a well marked 
chill with a rise of temperature ; in some cases light, but in 
others it becomes intense as in continued fevers. With the com- 
mencement of the chill, a circumscribed redness of some portion 
of the skin arises and becomes slightly swollen in a few hours 
and hot and painful. The redness is generally deep, but is 
effaced by finger pressure to immediately return, when 
pressure is removed. As the disease continues, it gradually 



216 T H E Ri E F L E C T O R 

extends to adjacent parts, extending from a small spot on the 
face to the scalp. After two or three days the skin becomes 
loosened and distended with a yellowish serum and these rup- 
turing pour out their secretions and sometimes covered with 
thin incrustations. Redness usually fades and the inflamma- 
tion commences to disappear by the fifth or sixth day, leaving 
the skin wrinkled and yellowish and at last the skin des- 
quamates over the entire surface. The disease may develop 
upon any part of the body and the fever, in most cases, will bo 
in proportion to the severity of the disease, delirium resulting 
from a heavy attack on face and scalp. The phlegmonodes 
is a type of the same disease in a more aggravated form. Oc- 
casionally the fever is intense, a dark coat develops upon the 
tongue, the pulse hard, small and frequent, bowels irregular, 
urine scanty, fetid and high colored, with a low muttering de- 
lerium. In three to five days the redness and heat subsides, 
and the part presents a doughy appearance and more swollen 
and painful. Gangrenosum is still a more aggravated form 
of the same disease. It may appear, as the preceding case, 
with severe constitutional and local symptoms, the swelling 
is usually very marked and in a short time the surface be- 
comes a dusky red or almost black and the inflammation soon 
terminates in gangrene. With the appearance of these symp- 
toms the fever frequently assumes a typhoid form, with low 
muttering delerium, dark brown tongue and diarrhoea, and if 
the disease is extensive soon terminates fatally. 

Treatment — In this disease as in others the condition is 
met according to developed expressions. Where there is a 
chill followed by a light fever, with a local inflammation, dry, 
hot skin, full quick pulse, great redness, tingling and burning 
in face, vertigo, when sitting up, great fear and anxiety; can- 
not bear the pain, nor to be touched or uncovered, aconite 
10 drops, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. 

Ammonia carbonate grs. 5 to 10 every three hours where 
there are brain symptoms in old people, with a tendency to 
gangrene and soreness of whole body. 

Apis 5 to 10 drops, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every three 
hours where there is involment of head and face, swelling of 
eyelids, burning, stinging pains in affected parts, chilliness, 



THBREFLECTOR 217 

with heat of face and hands, dryness of throat without thirst 
and urine scanty and dark colored. 

Arsenic (Fowler's solution) gtts. 3 to 5 every three or 
4 hours in phlegmonous type, parts show a blackish hue wdth 
tendency to gangrene, burning pains, parts burn like fire, rapid 
prostration of strength, extreme restlessness with great an- 
guish, fear of death, intense thirst, drinking little and often; 
worse after midnight. 

Belladonna gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour, 
indicated where the face is especially involved ; smooth, red, 
shining skin, but little swollen, the redness beginning in a 
small spot, with red streaks running from the center; conges- 
tion to head, with delerium ; throbbing headache, worse from 
motion; cannot bear light or noise; worse after noon. 

Bryonia gtts. 10 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
where the joints are involved, with hot, red swelling; pains 
sharp, burning and stinging ; cannot move part without great 
suffering ; patient desires quiet ; cannot sit up from nausea and 
faintness ; lips parched, dry and cracked ; splitting headache ; 
irritable, dry and hard stools. 

Rhus tox. gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful everv 
three hours in vesicular eruptions; burning and redness of 
surface, which soon swells and becomes covered with watery 
vesicles, intolerable burning, itching and tingling in parts ; eye- 
lids puffed like bladder; swelling and redness of face, with 
partial or enitre closing of eyelids ; bruised feeling in limbs 
and back. 

Sulphite of soda grs. 10 to 20 every three hours, where 
there is a broad pallid tongue, dirty coat ; the parts indicating 
gangrene, having a doughy or swollen look ; a solution of 
salicylic acid and borax or permanganate of potash may be 
used as a local application. 

]\Iuriate tincture of iron 5 to 20 drops every three hours is 
indicated where there is deep redness of tongue and a deep red 
color of the eruption ; apply locally every four hours. 

Veratrum viride 10 to 20 drops, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every hour, where the inflammation is active and scarlet red; 
may be applied locally diluted or, if not too severe, full 
strength. 



218 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

Iodine has been a topical remedy in many cases, applied 
locally. 

The diet should be simple and nutritious. 

Pilocarpine hydroclorate, 1-6 of a grain hypodermically 
or the tincture of pilocarpus gtts. 20 to 40 every two 
hours, where there is rapid spreading of the disease. Local 
applications may be beneficial, such as vaseline, oxide of zinc 
ointment or bismuth, olive oil and glycerine, equal parts. 
Where the spreading extends to the throat a little nitrate o£ 
silver is beneficial, brushed over the affected part. 

Eye — The e^^e is one of the most important organs of the 
body and, notwithstanding that nature has made every effort 
to protect it with a bony socket yet it is subject to injury and 
disease the same as any other part of the system. The disease 
does not necessarily endanger life, but a favorable termination 
is as anxiously awaited by both patient and friends as any 
other, or a more serious malady. 

The diseases of the eye, with its peculiar network of 
anatomical construction of blood vessels, nerves and muscles, 
have become of such importance that certain physicians have 
made a specialty of its study and treatment. 

Only a brief resume of some of the most common forms 
of diseases will be discussed and a treatment, if followed, that 
will be of great benefit in most cases. Inflammation of the 
eye arises from the same cause that would produce it in any 
other part of the body, differing only as regards the peculiarity 
of the structure and functions of the parts. The treatment 
would then be on the same general principles as an inflamma- 
tion, or a defect in any other part of the body. As in other 
diseases when we properly understand the cause and nature 
of the affection, there should be no hesitancy as to the ap- 
propriate treatment. 

On looking at the eye the first thing that we must recol- 
lect is that there are two principal parts, namely, the covering 
or lid and the eye ball. The eye ball is divided into its dif- 
ferent appendages, the outward covering is known as the con- 
junctiva and then there are the lachrymal glands, the muscles 
moving the eye, the nerve and blood supply and an adipose tis- 
sue that forms its bed. The inside of the eye ball has three 



THEREFLECTOR 219 

principal substances which are called the aqueous humor, a 
watery fluid, the vitreous, a jell^'-like substance and when the 
eye ball is on high tension from conjestion sometimes bursts 
and runs out, leaving the parts in a shrunkened or collapsed 
condition, and the crystalline lens and its capsule. 

Each one of those parts are subject to disease, but occur so 
rarely that it is not considered worth while to notice them 
in this place. 

The eyelids are subject to inflammation as the result of 
the spreading of erysipelas. They are swollen, livid and pain- 
ful and it may extend and involve the orbit. It may terminate 
in resolution or disolving, or it may continue to suppuration, 
with a heavy, throbbing pain when pus forms. If the inflam- 
mation is caused by erysipelas the application of equal parts 
of the muriate tincture of iron and glycerine, every two hours 
and keeping a cloth wet with same spread over it will be ex- 
cellent, but if, from other causes, a poultice made from equal 
parts of yellow puccoon and slippery elm or a decoction made 
from the roots of dogwood with a little of the tincture of 
aconite added and applied will give good results. Small boils, 
called styes, frequently involve the eyelid and are very painful. 
If they continue to occur the use of lime water internally and 
an application of a solution of salicylic acid and borax is very 
effective. Trichiasis is the name of inverted eyelashes and 
commonly knoAvn as "wild hairs" and is often a source of pain- 
ful irritation and inflammation, a portion of them being turned 
inwards, coming in contact with the eye. A great mistake is 
often made by constant extraction of the hair. It may some- 
times occur when the removal of the offender is necessary, but 
the application of a little fresh butter to the irritated lids and 
rubbing the hair upwards with a little warm beeswax will be 
more beneficial, by training the eyelashes to a more natural 
position. 

The inflammation of the lids occur more frequently in 
children than adults and is generally associated with a weak- 
ened constitution. It may be caused by coal smoke, impure 
air and filth, but is more frequently the result of a catarrhal 
or scrofulous or low form of chronic inflammation of the 
conjunctiva. The inflammation involves the lid and in many 



220 THEREFLECTOR 

cases so affects the roots of the eyelashes as to cause them to 
fall out, producing the condition called "blear eyed." The 
eyes are sore and tumid and the patient complains of a sensa- 
tion of roughness, as if sand was in the eye, thus the eyes pre- 
sent a weak appearance caused by the patient using the lids 
as little as possible in winking, keeping them partially closed. 
The lids are generally stuck together in the morning and fre- 
quently with considerable pain. This is essentially a chronic 
disease and very difficult to cure. 

The constitutional treatment is the first thing to be con- 
sidered and our attention must be given to that line of medica- 
tion and aid in rebuilding or restoring the body to normal 
functions. The kidneys will first be considered as an excretory 
channel through which a part of the morbid material of the 
blood may be thrown off and the recuperative qualities 
strengthened. 

Acetate of potash given in doses of 5 to 10 grains, well 
diluted with water every three or four hours is excellent for 
the kidneys. 

Corydalis (turkey corn), rumex crispus (yellow dock), 
scrophularia (figwort), either of which is a good alterative 
and can be given in 5 to 15 drops every three or four hours. 
The iodide of ammonia, grs. 2 to 10, well diluted, three times 
a day. Where there is a lack of iron as shown by a pale or 
sallow color, the iron recommended for chills (ague) will 
answer every purpose. The eyes will be benefitted by frequently 
bathing them during the day with a decoction of the root of 
swamp dogwood and yellow puccoon, not too strong, or a weak 
solution of salicylic acid and borax. Glycerine and rose water 
equal parts acts well in some cases ; apply, after the eyes have 
been cleansed with a weak solution of salt water, once or twice 
a day. A mild collyrum of sulphate of zinc or borax, or one or 
two drams of nitrous ether and vinegar, equal parts, to 8 
ozs. of water may be used as a cleasning element followed with 
the glycerine and rose water. In severe cases the hair or eye- 
lash may be taken out, the crusts removed and the ulcers lightly 
touched with nitrate of silver. A soft sponge should be used 
in applying the decoctions. An irritating plaster or blister 



THEREFLECTOR 221 

:to the back of the neck, behind or in front of the ear has given 
.good results. 

Conjunctivitis, or the old red sore eyes, is an inflamma- 
tion in the covering of the eye and lining of the lids, char- 
acterized by fever, pain and swelling; may be temporary from 
irritation of foreign substances as sand or dirt in the eye, or 
even exposure, but very soon disappears with rest. The dis- 
ease described here may arise from cold, sudden changes of 
temperature, extension of inflammation from the mucous mem- 
brane of the nose or with inoculation with the secretion of a 
diseased eye. From such source, whole families are frequently 
attacked with the disease from the indiscriminate use of towels 
or other utensils. The inflammation may continue until the 
blood vessels become extravisated and the conjunctiva is re- 
markably injected and swollen to where it passes into the 
cornea, or pupil, so much so occasionally as to involve this part 
of the eye. The disease is periodic, the patient being worse 
of an evening, at times attended with headache, the pain ceas- 
ing a short time after going to bed, the patient may rest well, 
but reappears in the morning on attempting to use the eyes. 
The disease may terminate in a week or ten days and then get 
well without further change, but in some cases it is more per- 
:sistent. In some instances ulcers form as the result of a blister 
and in some cases the cornea is obscured and hazy from the 
inflammation and in that variety the disease has a tendency 
^to ulcerate. 

There are different names for the same disease represent- 
ing the cause and its more aggravated forms and treatment 
should be considered and given according to indications. To 
know how to administer relief and restore the eye to its original 
or normal condition is of more importance to the patient than a 
physiological or anatomical description of the various forms 
and conditions of the diseases. 

Ophthalmia has reference to inflammation of the eye and 
the treatment will be considered accordingly. 

In purulent opthalmia, high inflammation, dry, hot skin 
and full quick pulse ; intense redness and swelling attended 
with acute pain ; great aversion to light, flushed cheeks, fear 



222 THEREFLECTOR 

and restlessness ; aconite gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every hour. 

Apis gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every three 
hours, where there is burning and stinging; baggy swelling 
under the eyes, the inflamed eye dark red, water profuse and 
hot, lids everted and dark red. 

Apocynum gtts. 5 to 30, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
two hours, indicated where there is a fullness of the conjunc- 
tiva, marked infiltration and swelling of the eyelids. 

Belladonna gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour ;. 
throbbing headache, increased by motion; double vision; pains 
come and go quickly ; sharp pains in orbits extending to brain ; 
redness and dry; disease acute, cannot bear light and noise. 

Carbonate of lime, grs. 5 to 20 every three hours ; glandu- 
lar swelling of the neck, an eruption on head ; avoids light ; 
specks and ulcers around the pupil ; candle or lamp light causes 
stinging pains ; redness and swelling of eyelids with bluring of 
eyes at night; scrofulous inflammation. 

Chamomile gtts. 10 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour, ophthalmia of infants, caused by cold damp air, and 
worse by every change of weather, eyes agglutinate in morning 
with purulent mucus and very irritable. 

Euphrasia (eyebright) gtts. 1 to 5 in a wineglassful of 
water every two hours, flickering of light, coryza and head- 
ache; copious secretion of mucus and tears; specks and ulcers 
on the eyeball, with redness and aching pain. 

Lycopodium (club moss) gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; tea- 
spoonful every hour, burning and smarting in eyes, like sand ; 
red sediment in urine; easily to take cold; constipated; feels 
full in throat ; of a scrofulous form. 

Pulsatilla gtts. 1 to 5 every three hours, cries easily ; worse- 
of an evening; itching and burning, with a desire to rub them; 
redness and swelling of the lids and conjunctiva; better after 
gonorrhoeal discharge ; of a catarrhal or rheumatic character. 

Rhus tox. gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
three hours, its utility is shown in rheumatic or gouty subjects, 
conjunctiva red, with a purulent discharge, lids agglutinated 
in the morning ; lids inflamed and swollen ; erysipelatous, with- 



THEREFLECTOR 223 

tseatterad watery vesicles ; worse at rest or before a storm or 
^fter midniglit. 

A whitish coat on tongue, 5 to 15 grains of bicarbonate of 
soda every three hours and if the coat is ashy or dirty the 
sulphite should be substituted; baptesia is indicated where the 
•eye looks purple and the face having the appearance of being 
in cold wind. An emetic should ]je given, when there is a full 
stomach ; where there are dark full veins podophyllin gr. 1-6 
to 1-20 every two or three hours. 

Veratrum viride, gtts. 5 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every hour, where there is a high fever and mouth dry. 

Macrotis (black cohosh) gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; tea- 
spoonful every 1 to 2 hours, where there is a tense, heavy ach- 
ing pain in eyeball, at times headache. If there are neuralgic 
pains, gtts. 5 to 10 of gelsemium will do good service given 
every one or two hours. 

A tonic, blood and nerve stimulant, in debility; quinine, 
sulphate; carbonate of iron, gentian, equal parts, grs. 180 
divided into 30 pills and take one after each meal. 

Arsenic gtts. 1 to 2 every three hours in water where there 
are ulcers of the eyeball. 

Local treatment, from the mildest to the harshest, has been 
used at various times. 

A cleansing fluid for all cases can be had by using equal 
parts of salicylic acid and borax. Adrenalin chloride is the 
remedy to clear up congestion ; 1 or 2 drops in the eye will 
change the expression in less than three minutes. Hydrastia, 
sulpliate (yellow puccoon) gr. 1 to an oz. of pure water or 
sufficient to color the water to that of an orange, a drop or 
two in the eye will soon relieve the congestion of any ordinary 
case of conjunctivitis, can be used at pleasure. 

Where there is inflammation of the lids a salve made of 
white wax, 1 dr., sweet oil 2 drms., sulphate of zinc grs. 30; 
apply to the lids night and morning. 

White eye water: Acetate of zinc grs. 4, morphine grs. 5, 
pure water 1 oz. Drop in eye in morning. 

Golden eye water : Sixty grains of yellow puccoon steeped 
in warm water 24 hours and fluid reduced to a gill, when fil- 
tered, then add sugar of lead grs. 45, sulphate of zinc grs. 90 



224 THEREFLECTOR 

sulphate of morphine grs. 15. One of the best for all purposes 
and can be used in the eye as often as may be desired. 

Smoky eye water: Iodine grs. 25, arsenious acid grs. 30, 
sulphate of copper, sulphate of iron, pulverized alum, of each 
3 oz. Place in a clean earthen vessel and pour in one quart of 
boiling rain, or soft water, stirring with a stick until dissolved, 
when cool add tanic acid till colored black. One or two drops 
in eye night and morning. A specialist is said to have paid 
five hundred dollars for this prescription and he accumulated 
considerable property in a few years. 

I have succeeded in curing eyes with this when every thing 
else had failed. It will cure all forms of granulations and re- 
store sight to the blind if the life of the eyeball has not been 
destroyed. The pain is severe, necessitating an anodyne, mor- 
phine or chloral. Some patients, however, would not require 
it. The fluid may be filtered. The tanic acid being left out of 
a part at times was to make the impression that two kinds of 
eyewater was being used. A freeze will destroy it. 

The same specialist used the following as a wash for the 
eyes : Castile soap % lb., sulphate of zinc 1 dr ; a spoonful of 
table salt, loaf sugar 1-4 lb., one beef gall. Dissolve in an 
earthen vessel till thoroughly mixed. Use in washing eyes 
with warm or cool water every morning. 

Patients with inflamed eyes should avoid light and ke<jp 
free from emotional excitement. Light diet, baths and keep- 
ing bowels and kidneys in a normal condition will aid in the 
cure ; plenty of fresh air and light exercise will be beneficial. 

In ulcerations of eye a little cotton and bandage applied 
will give good results. 

Gastritis — This disease is an acute and violent inflamma- 
tion of the mucous, sub-mucous and muscular coats of the stom- 
ach, with a loss of tissue, characterized by great pain, constant 
vomiting of blood-streaked or bloody mucus, caused by cor- 
rosive poisons, mineral acids, arsenic, corrosive sublimate, cop- 
per and carbolic acid. After swallowing any irritant there gen- 
erally follows a sickening nausea with rapid and persistent 
vomiting; the contents of the stomach acted upon by the poison, 
afterwards shreds of the mucous membrane blood clots, great 
anxiety and depression, a weak rapid pulse, slow and shallow 



THE REFLECTOR 225- 

T)reathing, cold skin, with sick-sweat, intense burning in stom- 
ach, at times exhaustive purgings ; the features are more or less 
contracted or sunken. Where an irritant poison is the cause 
there is generally a mask or eschar left upon the lips ; sulphuric 
acid, a blackish color; nitric acid, yellowish; carbolic acid^ 
white and corrugated ; corrosive sublimate, a whitish glaze ; 
caustic potash, spreading and softening of the tissues. Cold or 
wet may cause this inflammation ; extreme cold or hot food or 
drink may produce it; alcohol, ice cream, ice water, or may 
occur as the result or as a sequence from inflammation of an 
adjacent part. A chronic state is often the result of a badly 
treated case of the acute. 

Treatment — Where there is a dry, hot skin, thirst, pain in 
stomach, with burning, nausea and vomiting of blood, vomit 
bitter, with anguish and fear of death, restless, and short 
breath; aconite 20 drops to water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour. 

Arnica gtts. 1 to 2 ; may alternate the aconite where there 
is vomiting of blood after mechanical injury; sore bruised feel- 
ing all through the body; bed feels hard; taste of putrid eggs,, 
when belching; rapid prostration of strength. 

Belladonna 1 to 2 drops every hour, (lessen dose and ex- 
tend time if the skin flushes or mouth dry from effects) great 
heat and tenderness of the whole body, especially the abdomen;; 
the skin imparts the sensation of heat to the hand ; burning cut- 
ting pains in stomach ; pains in head with throbbing, cutting 
character, coming on suddenly and ceasing suddenly; conges- 
tion with a desire to escape from bed; frightful, jumping in 
sleep ; intolerance to light and noise. 

Bryonia gtt. 1 every hour, where tongue is brown and dry ; 
stitching and darting pains with burning in stomach; vomits 
immediately after eating or drinking; nausea and fainting from 
sitting up ; lips parched and dry ; great thirst for large draughts, 
of water ; desires to remain quiet. 

Ipecac gtt. 1 every half to every hour, where there is great 
nausea and vomiting; loose bowels with grass-gre^en mucous: 
stools and colicky pain ; after eating sour fruit or grapes, ber- 
ries or salads. 

Iris versicolor gtt. 1 every hour where there is great burn- 



226 T, H E R E F L E C T O R 

ing distress in stomach ; sharp cutting pains of short duration 
and changing often. 

Nux vomica gtt. 1 every hour, where there is burning pain, 
abdomen tender to touch ; tongue broad and baggy, leaving im- 
pressions of teeth on sides ; contractive spasmodic pains in 
stomach; vomit sour-smelling mucus; difficult stools, with fre- 
quent urging. 

Pulsatilla, gtts. 1 to 5 every two hours, where there is suf- 
focation and fainting spells, must have fresh, cool air; w^atery 
diarrhoea, especially at night ; bitter taste and constant spitting 
of frothy mucus ; easily to cry, fearful. 

The treatment of the chronic form, where there is sore 
spots or ulcers will be benefitted with sub-nitrate of bismuth, 
grs. 5 every two hours, or liquor bismuth and hydrastis gtts. 30 
every three hours ; arsenic gtts. 1 to 2 every three hours where 
there is an anxious expression of countenance ; heat or burning 
in stomach with sharp, cutting pains ; urgent thirst of cold 
water, drink often, but little at a time; great restlessness *and 
fear of death. Hydrastis canadensis (yellow puccoon) gtts. 2 
to 3, every three hours, if the stomach is inflamed. 

Carbo-veg. (charcoal) triturated, 3 to 5 grains every two 
hours where there is gas and puffiness, with a sense of sore- 
ness. 

Podophyllum gtts. 10 to water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
two hours where there is a tendency to sour belches; tongue 
coated a yellow brownish color. 

During an acute attack the patient should be provided with 
an abundance of fresh air, kept from light and quiet as pos- 
sible. Hot poultices should be applied, with a little turpentine 
over the stomach and frequently change. The bowels should be 
thoroughly cleansed by the in.jection of lukewarm water to 
which a little carbolic acid is added, to prevent sepsis, or a lit- 
tle capsicum to stimulate or a little salt or vinegar as nourisn- 
ment. Milk may be used the same w^ay as nourishment, which 
is very essential at times, especially in the active state where 
a total abstinence from all food is necessary. Water must be 
taken in sips like drinking hot tea or coffee or small pieces of 
broken ice may be taken to quench thirst. A half teacupful 
of hot water taken frequently is a good pain reliever. When 



THEREFLECTOR 227 

improvement sets in a little fresh sweet milk or thin gruel may- 
be taken. A little later, as improvement advances, beef tea or 
chicken broth is permissible, but no solid food should be al- 
lowed, until all traces of inflammation have subsided. Return 
to ordinary diet very cautiously. 

Headache — This is a disease left to chance or to the imagi- 
nary knowledge of the patent medicine man, or something that 
cured some one else, and everything is tried by the sufferer and 
the recommendations generally come thick and fast by those 
who neither know the cause or the medicinal action of the 
remedy, as well as some of the medical fraternity. The causes 
that produce this nerve racking condition are from various 
disturbances of organic functions. The disturbed function may 
arise from a too rapid flow of blood to the head during fever; 
from cold, from exhaustion, from defects of stomach, liver, 
bowels or kidneys ; from a disease of the cranial bones, rheuma- 
tism, malaria or sympathetic. It is a very difficult matter to 
ahvays be able to locate the cause, but the treatment will be 
more or less guess work without a knowledge of its origin. 

As certain causes will give their peculiar expressions we 
may be able to airive at a fair knowledge of its origin and 
render the relief sought. Every symptom, character of pain, 
condition of patient as to habits, state of health, locality, pre- 
disposing cause, age and family history are all elements lead- 
ing up to the cause and should be studied with a view of select- 
ing the most effective remedy. 

Aconite gtts. 5 to 10,. water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour, 
where there is fever, sweat suddenly dries and alternates, with 
cold and hot flashes ; pulse frequent, corded or knotty, showing 
obstruction to a free circulation in the capillaries; violent stupi- 
fying headache, with great fullness, and heaviness in forehead; 
feels as if the brain would press through the eyes ; vertigo when 
rising from a sitting posture ; bitter, bilious vomiting ; gets des- 
perate and pain severe. Arsenic gtts. 1 to 2 every three hours 
in periodical headache; head heavy, mostly in front; violent 
vomiting after eating or drinking ; great thirst. 

Belladonna gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour, where there is swelling and duskiness of surface ; dilated 
pupils; drowsy, sleepy state; dryness of the throat; head feels- 



228 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

.as if it would burst, congestion to head with throbbing carotids ; 
pain violent, especially in forehead, better with eyes closed; 
piercing ache on right side ; cannot bear light or noise ; worse 
in evening. 

Bryonia gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonf ul every hour ; 
lieadache of a tensive character, tissues full, hot and dusky ; 
pain burning, stitching or tearing, worse by motion ; sour, bit- 
ter vomiting ; lips parched, dry or cracked ; scalp of head sore ; 
hard, dry stools, constipated. 

Chionanthus (white ash) gtts. 10 to 60 three times a day, 
constipated, bilious; habitual sick headache; brain feels as if 
bruised ; eyeballs sore and painful ; pain severe and chiefly over 
the eyes; very sick stomach; vomiting green ropy bile; bitter 
eructations. 

Gelsemium gtts. 10 to 30, water -4 ozs.; teaspoonful every 
half to every hour or two, until there is an experience of re- 
lief, then the time should be lengthened as the medicine takes 
.effect or the eyelids droop or double vision occur, the drug 
should be discontinued, but is not considered a poison. 

Its greatest utility is manifested where there is a severe 
pain in forehead and top, dim vision, roaring in ears ; head feels 
large ; dim vision precedes headache ; wild feeling and uterine 
pains. 

Pulsatilla gtts. 10 to 30, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful ever}- two 
hours ; headache the result of eating rich, greasy food ; tearing, 
drawing, stitching pains, worse toward evening ; bad taste in 
month in the morning ; feels chilly ; frets and cries. 

Sanguiuaria (red puccoon) gtts. 1 to 15, water or simple 
syrup 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour ; must keep quiet in dark 
room; sick headache, vomiting bile; begins in the morning and 
increases during the day; pains in back of head and runs up- 
wards ; pains more severe over right eye. 

Sulphur gis. 1 to 5 (triturated), every two or three hours 
is one of the best remedies, if taken in doses sufficiently small 
to be absorbed, where there is a depressed nervous system in- 
dicated in headaches of a throbbing, splitting character; head 
■feels like it was pressed between heavy weights ; heat on top 
'Of head ; early morning diarrhoea ; weak f ainty spell. 

Veratram album (white hellebore) gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 



THEREFLECTOR 229 

ozs. ; teaspoonful every one or two hours. The conditions indi- 
cating this drug are in nervous headaches with violent pains 
that almost deprives patient of reason ; weak, cold sweat on 
forehead ; top of head cold ; headache at menstrual period ; 
great thirst for cold drinks. 

Sulphate of nickel gr. one-eighth to one or two twice or 
three times a day for periodical headaches, has gained quite a 
reputation in the last few years and seems to have been admin- 
istered without further indications than in those cases where 
they become better and worse, or return at certain periods. 

Local applications in headaches are very useful and serious 
results scarcely ever happen from their use. Irritating plasters 
at back of neck or on temples sometimes exerts a good influ- 
ence in some cases. A piece of brown paper folded two or 
three times and a few spoonsful of baking soda spread over it 
and some apple vinegar poured on and applied while effervesc- 
ing, frequently gives relief. 

Take two drs. aconite, 4 drs. of chloroform, equal parts of 
camphor and tincture of arnica 2i/2 drs., and glycerine suf- 
ficient to make 6 ozs. ; wet a piece of flannel and apply with a 
bandage to hold in place. Where the eyeballs are affected 
without any perceptible change a fly blister, the size of a quar- 
ter, applied on each cheek and over the ej^ebrows will give 
relief. 

In all cases of headaches, particular attention should be 
given to diet and daily habits. Tea, coffee and alcoholic liquors 
should be avoided. The diet should consist of vegetables, milk, 
rice, light puddings, ripe fruits, bread made of unbolted flour, 
and drink plenty of water. 

Jaundice — This disease expression or symptom is the re- 
sult of some defect of the liver or a catarrhal inflammatory 
<3ondition of the duodenum or mucous membrane of the bile 
ducts, characterized by a disturbance of the bowels, colicky 
pains, constipation, mouth dry, has bad taste, tongue coated and 
sometimes nausea, with headache ; a yellow tinge appears in the 
■eyes, extending to all parts of the body. It generallyy termi- 
nates in from three to five days, without complications. 

Treatment — If there is fever, with a sharp pain in region 
of the liver, scanty dark urine, great fear and anxiety of mind, 



230 T^ H E R E F L E C T O R 

with nervous excitability, clay colored stools, aconite gtts. 10, 
water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. 

Bryonia gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour, 
where there are stitching pains in region of liver on pressure: 
pain in right shoulder and arm, also in limbs, worse by motion ; 
yellow coated tongue ; bitter vomiting ; lips parched, dry and 
cracked; constipated, 

Chionanthus (fringe tree) gtts. 2 to 10 every one to three 
hours where there is a swelling of the liver, inactivity, fullness 
and pain, often intense, in the region of the liver, extending to 
the umbilicus and accompanied with prostration and sometimes 
nausea. 

Nux vomica gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
two or- four hours, where there is torpidity of the bowels, and 
especially when obstructed by gall-stones ; constrictive pain in 
region of liver, swelling and hardness; nauseau and bilious 
vomiting; very irritable and desires quiet, cannot sleep in the 
after part of the night ; persons of sedentary habits, or intem- 
perate. 

Podophyllum gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every two 
hours, indicated by a fullness and pasty coat of the tongue, 
liver engorgement with a tendency to hemorrhoids ; pain and 
sensation of weight in the right side, sluggish, venous circula- 
tion, shown by a fullness of superficial veins, urine scanty, 
dull depressive headache, w^ith soreness of the eyeballs, espec- 
ially on waking in the morning, or in obstruction of gall-ducts 
by gall-stones. 

Pulsatilla gtts. 2 to 5 every three hours, where there is a 
yellowish coat on tongue, with a bitter taste in mouth, chilli- 
ness, with vertigo on rising from a sitting posture ; green, 
slimy diarrhoea, especally at night; no thirst; all symptoms 
worse toward evening. In gall-stone colic 10 or 15 drops of 
dioscorea in a third or half teacupful of hot water every half 
to an hour frequently gives relief. A tea made from the roots 
of a wild yellow rooted mulberry and drank occasionally is re- 
puted to be almost a certain cure for jaundice. The diet, if 
any appetite, should consist of oat meal, rice, tapioca, simple 
toasts, vegetables, ripe and cooked fruit and plenty of water. 



THEREFLECTOR 231 

All meats, greasy food and stimulating drinks should be 
avoided. 

Measles — An acute epidemic and contagious disease ; char- 
acterized by catarrhal symptoms, sneezing, chill, fever and 
crimson eruption, making its appearance, at the outset, prin- 
cipally in throat and on the forehead. 

There are other and a milder form known as roseola, Ger- 
man, French or false measles, which bears a close resemblance 
to the regular measles and has very nearly the same symptoms, 
with characteristic sore throat, a mild fever, suffused eyes, and 
it makes its appearance on the first to fourth day after the be- 
ginning of the fever. It is a self-limited disease and seldom, if 
ever, becomes serious. 

The regular measles assume a more violent character and, 
if badly treated, become of a more serious nature. A susceptible 
person cannot remain in a room or come in contact with the 
disease, without taking it. It is frequently carried in the 
clothing, however, a few hours in the air will often act as an 
antiseptic and destroy the power of infection, but may be in 
bed clothes and even rooms where a patient has long remained. 
The contagion ceases about the time of desquamation. 

Measles, like other contagious diseases, go through certain 
stages, such as a period of incubation, or hatching, taking place 
from the time of contact until the eruption, lasting from nine to 
fourteen days, preceded by fever, the eruption and decline. The 
onset may be mistaken for a cold, or acute catarrh, as there 
are watery eyes, free discharge from the nose, a hoarse, harsh 
cough and sometimes vomiting and diarrhoea. These symptoms 
may increase till the fourth day, when the eruption makes its 
appearance. The eruption appears in the form of red spots, 
which soon multiply and unite and become blotches, especially 
on the face, which is generally more or less swollen and puffy. 
An abundant eruption is more favorable than a scanty one. The 
disease generally terminates in three or four days after the 
eruption, and in its decline becoming browner as it fades away, 
the epiderm being thrown off in the form of a bran-like scurf. 
Diarrhoea may follow its decline, and should never be inter- 
fered with, as it is eliminative of the peculiar poison, that, if it 
remain in the system, might produce other evil results. Should 



232 THEREFLECTOR 

the bowels become too active and other conditions favorable, an. 
astringent may be effective. There is another form of measles 
that develops in an army known as black measles, hemorrhagic 
rubeola, or camp measles, and may become prevalent in jails or 
other prisons, in which occur dangerous chest symptoms and 
black spots from deterioated blood and severe prostration, with 
a fatal termination in a majority of the cases. 

Measles is sometimes mistaken for scarlet fever, but may 
be differentiated by absence of catarrh, an earlier appearance of 
a different character of eruption with high fever and rapid 
pulse. The treatment is about the same in either case and a 
favorable termination, under proper treatment and without 
complications, may be expected. 

Treatment — The average temperature is about 103 degrees,^ 
and if the bodily temperature rises much above this and re- 
mains long at a time, the disease may be considered one of se- 
verity. At the beginning, when there is dry, hot skin, a full, 
quick pulse, great thirst, eyes red, watery and sensitive to light, 
catarrhal irritation, with dry, hacking, hoarse, croupy, cough, 
headache and vertigo, aconite gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teas- 
poonful every hour. If there is an involvement of lungs, vera- 
trum viride, gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every one or two' 
hours may alternate the aconite. 

Apis gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every three 
hours where there is an eruption with puffiness or swelling of 
the skin, cough and soreness in breast, as if bruised, suffocative 
breathing and desires fresh air, scanty high colored urine and 
and possibly morning diarrhoea. 

Arsenic gtts. 1 to 3 every four hours where there are severe 
cases with typhoid symptoms, burning and great dryness and 
itching of skin, the eruption disappears too suddenly, face 
bloated, with dry, parched lips, great anguish and fear of death, 
constant craving of cold water, drinking often, but little, worse 
about midnight. 

Belladonna gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour where there is a scarlet red appearance of the throat and 
tongue with difficult swallowing, red and hot face with throb- 
bing headache, backache, dry, spasmodic cough, drowsy and 
moaning during sleep, starting and jumping, eyes red and suf- 
fused, complicated with scarlet fever. 



THE REFLECTOR 233 

Bryonia gtts, 5 to 10, water -1 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
where there is imperfect eruption, congestion of chest, with 
shooting, stitching pains, increased by deep breathing, dry, 
painful cough, with roughness and dryness of throat, very 
thirsty. 

Camphor, a few drops at pleasure, where the vitality is de- 
pressed, face fale and skin cold, assuming a bluish color, a slow 
eruption, cannot bear cover. 

Pulsatilla gtts. 1 to 5 every three hours where catarrhal 
symptoms appear, eyes red, watery and sensitive to light, thick 
yellow discharge from nose, mouth dry and no thirst, the erup- 
tion tardy, cough loose with thick, yellow expectoration, worse 
in warm room. The temperature should be kej^t uniform. Be- 
ware of either extreme. Extreme heat worse than cold, bub 
neither should be tolerated. The room should be well ventila- 
ted, and darkness, if eyes are sensitive. Hot baths are benefi- 
cial to aid in the tardy eruption and hot foot baths to relieve 
oppression of chest. Gum arabic or slippery elm tea may be 
sipped frequently for troublesome cough and pure, fresh water 
drank at pleasure. The diet should be plain, consisting of milk, 
light puddings, ride, plain toast and as the patient improves, 
beef tea, broths, vegetables and fruits can be relished. 

Meningitis — This disease is an acute inflammation of the 
membranes of the brain and characterized by headache, chill, 
fever, delirium and followed by symptoms of general collapse. 
The fever may be paroxysmal and run high in the evening and 
low of a morning. In many cases, however, the fever may con- 
tinue high. There may be periods of consciousness alternating 
with wild delirium. There may be paralysis and spasms. The 
causes may arise from mental overwork, prolonged wakeful- 
ness, acute alcoholism, over heat, diseases of the internal ear, 
erysipelas, diseases of serous membranes and continued erup^ 
tive fevers. Occurs more frequently in children and young 
adults. The onset is sudden. 

Cerebro-spinal fever is a mere extension of the same disease 
and involves the spinal cord and likely an eruption of small 
pimples on certain places of the body. As the disease advances 
there may be jerking of the limbs, rolling of the eyeballs, twitch- 
ing of the muscles of the face and possibly convulsions, espec- 



234 THEREFLECTOR 

ially in children. A cure unfavorable. May run from one day 
to two weeks. 

If recovery follows there may result a defective sight, hear- 
ing, imbecility of the mind or paralysis. 

Treatment — The treatment is not materially different from 
other forms of inflammation, and a close observer will readily 
see certain expressions that calls for certain remedies, for it is 
a disease that requires close attention and no meddling. 

In the onset, where there is high fever, congestion of blood 
to head, with a red face and a pulsating of carotids, small con- 
tracted pupils, aconite gtts. 10, gelsemium gtts. 10 to 15, water 
4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. 

Apis gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 4 hours where 
there is suppression or spread of erysipilas, squinting of eyes, 
grinding teeth and boring of head in pillow, conjunctiva in- 
jetced, full of dark vessels, red spots on skin like bee stings, 
with stinging, burning pains. 

Belladonna gtts. 5 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour where the head feels like it was being pressed together, 
delirious, wild, insane, furious when quiet, lies with eyes partly 
open, face blanched, pupils, dilated. 

Bryonia gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour, where there is sharp, shooting pains in head, desires quiet, 
dry, hard stools, irritable. 

Hyoscyamus gtts. 1 to 5 every one to three hours where 
there is drowsiness and loss of conscience, white coated tongue, 
frothing at the mouth, staring with distorted eyes with double 
vision, muttering and picking at the bed clothes, involuntary 
actions of bowels and kidneys. 

Opium grs. 1 to 5 (tincture of opium gtts. 5 to 25) every 
hour till rest where there is lethargy with stertorous breathing, 
eyes half open, delirious talking with eyes wide open, face purp- 
lish and swollen, acute hearing, fearfulness and uneasy, stools 
round, hard and black, violent, mental emotions. 

Rhus tox. gtts. 1 to 5, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
where there is burning or itching, an aching pain, numbness, 
stiffness, can't rest, feels better moving about, paralytic ten- 
dency, wakes suddenly, shrill cry, resembling the beginning of 
a spasm, sharp stroke of pulse, prominent papillae on tongue. 

Stramonium gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 



THEREFLECTOR 235 

hour, delirious laughing, awakes with a shrinking look, as if 
afraid of first object s^en; very talkative, sings, whistles, re- 
peats poetry, grinding teeth with a shudder, lips sore, cracked 
and sordes on teeth, glistening eyes and staring look. 

Sodium sulphite grs. 10 to 30 every three or four hours in 
those cases where there is a dirty, pallid coat of the tongue, 
showing a condition of sepsis or the formation bacteria, fungi, 
or the decomposition of putrid products, due to fermentation. 

Veratrum viride gtts. 5 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every hour where there is a red streak along the center of the 
tongue, fever, great fullness in head with throbbing of the 
carotids, slow pulse, very sensitive to noise, dilated pupils, with 
dimness of vision, inflammation following sunstroke. 

In these cases all persons should not be allowed in room 
except the regular attendants, no noise, and well ventilated 
room. Keep extremities warm with hot bottles, apply heat or 
cold to head, whichever is the most soothing. Wash out bowels 
•with syringe and water as warm as can be use readily. Epsom 
salts a half to one teaspoonful in a third of a teacupful of water 
every three hours till free evacuations. 

The diet should be light and nutritious, but no forcing of 
food, be governed by the appetite. At first only a thin gruel, 
toast water, acid, diluted drinks and pure fresh water. Later 
corn starch, rice, milk, broths or beef tea. 

Pneumonia — This disease is known as croupous, catarrhal 
serous pneumonia, each of which is only a modified form of the 
other, characterized by an acute inflammatory condition of the 
part involved, preceded by cold or chill, a rise of temperature, 
obstructed breathing, cough. Catarrhal pneumonia is acute 
bronchitis, an inflammation extending into the finest bronchial 
tubes and is called capillary bronchitis, mostly found in chil- 
dren, associated with whooping cough, influenza or croup. 
Serous pneumonia is a secondary disease and is the result of 
bronchitis, heart disease, measles, typhus or scarlet fever. Croup- 
ous pneumonia is the most common form and is the disease 
mostly referred to when this particular malady is considered. A 
chill or rigor, as the result off cold or exposure, is followed by 
febrile reaction, the pulse becoming frequent and hard, skin 
dry and hot, appetite impaired, white coated tongue, bowels 
constipated and urine scanty. Respiration becomes shorter, fre- 



236 T' H E R E F L E C T O R 

quent, anxious and difficult and attended with unusual expan- 
sion and elevation of the chest. There is a frequent short cough, 
and increased warmth and moisture of the expired air. On the 
third or fourth day the patient is unable to take a deep inspira- 
tion, respiration being performed principally by the diaphragm 
and abdominal muscles. On account of the weight of the con- 
gested lung, the patient prefers to lie upon the affected side or 
where both lungs are involved, upon the back. There is a con- 
stant feeling of uneasiness rather than pain in the chest, with 
some degree of anxiety, a sense of tightness, weight and fullness; 
and of internal heat. In some cases there is constant restless- 
ness, with frequent attempts to elevate the head and shoulders. 
The disease begins to change in character, the cough, which has 
generally increased up to this time, is attended with expectora- 
tion of a white glary mucus, which changes about the fifth 
or sixth day, the sputa becoming of a yellowish, reddish or 
more frequently rusty tinge, called the stage of red hepatiza- 
tion, with brick dust sputa, resembling the dust of red brick 
mixed with the mucus. The sputa is very tenacious and when 
discharged into a vessel it runs together, forming a single mass, 
so tenacious that the vessel may be inverted without detaching 
it. By this time the breathing becomes heavier and shorter. If 
the disease involves a considerable portion of the lungs, the op- 
pression becomes urgent, and the sense and weight is extreme. 
The disease begins to decline about the firth or sixth day in 
favorable cases, the cough becoming looser and less distressing, 
the expectoration changes in character both as to quantity and 
quality. The sputa resembles that of bronchitis, the pain, 
labored breathing and suffocation are gradually relieved, the 
febrile symptoms disappear and the patient is convalescent 
about the seventh to the ninth day of the disease. But in a 
more aggravated form, the hepatization continues with an in- 
crease of the labored breathing, where a large portion of the 
lung is involved, the patient requires an elevation of the head 
and shoulders to call into action the external inspiratory mus- 
cles. The inspirMions become shorter and more distressing, some- 
times as rapid as 40 to 60 per minute. The cough is more dis- 
tressing and annoying, the viscidity and color of the sputa 
changes to correspond to the intensity of the dis- 
ease. The fever continues unabated, pulse ranges from 120 ta 



THEREFLECTOR 23Z 

140 beats per minute, the skin hot, dry and rough, the tongue 
is coated with a brownish, offensive mucus which becomes- 
darker as the disease progresses and sordes forming on the 
teeth. The patient becomes delirious at first, but partially and 
only a part of the day, but as the disease continues its ravages- 
there is a low mutering delirium or coma. These symptoms- 
may continue for one or two weeks, sometimes coming on rap- 
idly, at others more slowly, the disease terminating fatally in 
some cases, by the twelfth day in others from three to four 
weeks, or the patient recovers, having worn the disease out. 

Treatment — In the treatment of pneumonia the symptoms 
will be remakably uniform for four or five days, there being 
one-half to one degree difference in the morning and evening 
temperature range, the temperature being usually 104 degreees 
and very rarely 105 degrees. There is a very rapid decline of 
the temperature, in favorable cases, from the fifth day, until 
it reaches the plane of health, 98 degrees, on the ninth day. 

In this, as w^ell as other diseases, the treatment should be 
selected with reference to complications and pathological indi- 
cations. 

Aconite gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour, 
especially in children and feeble persons ; high fever, pulse full 
and bounding, violent thirst and shortness of breath, piercing: 
and stitching pains in the chest with difficult breathing, fear of 
death and predicts the day he will die. Arsenic gtts. 1 to 2" 
every three hours where there is an advanced stage ; worse after' 
midnight ; great anxiety, restlessness, tossing from one position 
to another ; rapid prostration, a cold, clammy sweat, great thirst, . 
drinking little and often, burning pain and heat in chest, cold- 
ness of extremities. 

Belladonna gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour, in congestion of the brain, with flushed face and throb- 
bing carotids, wild delirium, with wild look and tries to run 
away, strike, bite or quarrel, expectoration, bloody, scanty and 
difficult, great thirst, with dry, cracked tongue and lips, start- 
ing and jumping during sleep and moaning, difficult breathing,, 
with pain in lower and middle portion of chest. 

Bryonia gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour,, 
fever light, cough with sputa of a tenacious mucus of a reddish 
or rusty color, brick dust, a stage of red heptazation, obstructed 



238 THEREFLECTOR 

breathing and acute stitching pain in side of chest, pleuritic in 
character, desires quiet, cannot take a full breath, lungs feel 
as if they would not expand, constipated, stools dry and hard. 

Carbo veg. (charcoal, triturated), grs. 1 to 5 every 
two to three hours in advanced stages when there is great pros- 
tration of vital force ; pale face and cold extremities, with weak 
pulse, craves cold air and wants to be fanned ; cough by spells 
with brownish expectoration. 

Ipecac gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
in pneumonia of infants, breathing rapid and difficult, face 
pale, surface blue, rattling of mucus in chest, chest feels full of 
phlegm, but cannot cough it up; much nausea and vomiting. 

Bichromate of potassium gtts. 5 to 30 to glassful of water ; 
teaspoonful every two to four hours in infantile pneumonia, 
complicated with whooping cough, breathing labored, wheezing, 
rattling, with choking cough, preventing child from sleeping or 
drinking. In cases of both adult and infants the secretions are 
tough, tenacious, stringy, or ropy, with ulceration of throat and 
nose, sometimes bloody, or rusty mucus. 

Lycopodium gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
one or two hours where typhoid symptoms develop ; circum- 
scribed redness of the cheeks, copious expectoration mixed with 
pus, fan-like motion of nostrils, cannot be alone, red sand-like 
sediment in urine. 

Opium (tincture, laudanum) gtts. 2 to 5 for infants, 10 to 
20 for adults every hour till rest where the inflammation is dis- 
tinguished by symptoms of congestion of the brain, deep snor- 
ing, breathing, with wide open mouth, sputa frothy and con- 
taining blood and mucus; stupefying sleep. 

Phosphorus gtts. 15 to 30, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
one to three hours (an energetic poison and only used in ex- 
treme cases), stitching pains aggravated by coughing, breath- 
ing or lying on- left side, tightness across chest, dry cough and 
rusty colored sputa, greater portion of lung involved, with 
great suffocation, hepatization of right lung, sensation of empti- 
ness and weakness in the abdomen, very sleepy, states of great 
depression. 

Rhus tox. gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every two 
or three hours. The disease begins to indicate typhoid ; patient 
at times delirious, severe cough as if chest would burst, sputa 



THE REFLECTOR 239 

color of brick dust or bloody, pains are aggravated by lest, 
hence the patient continually moves about to get relief; very 
restless at night, especially the latter part, sharp stroke of the 
pulse, bright flush of left cheek, pain in forehead and orbits 
and the peculiar appearance of the papillae at tip of the tongue. 
If a child, there will be an occasional sharp cry during sleep and 
in the advanced stage of the disease the features present a 
pinched or drawn appearance, especially the contraction of the 
tissues about the eyes and around the base of the brain. 

Macrotys gtts. 10 to 80, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
two hours, there is pain in right side of chest, must lie quietly on 
back and press with hand, pains from region of heart, all over 
chest and dow^n left arm, palpitation of heart, face livid, hands 
cold and clammy, numbness of left arm, soreness of the respira- 
tory organs as if bruised. 

Sanguinaria gtts. 1 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour in advanced stages, great difficulty of breathing, lies on 
back with head elevated, burning and stitching pains in chest, 
cough with tough, rusty colored sputa, circumscribed redness 
of cheeks especially in the evening, an irritative cough and a 
sense of ra\^^less and constriction in throat, cough generally 
harassing and when secretion is established it is very profuse.. 

Sulphur grs. 1 to 5 (triturated 1 to 10 or 30) every three- 
hours. Its utility is shown in protracted cases where it seems, 
to assume the course of consumption, much phlegm in chest,. 
frequent faint and weak spells, and flashes of heart, cough on-., 
deep inspiration, with cutting pain in left breast, suffocated,, 
desires the open air, constant heat on top of head. 

Tartar emetic gr. 1, water 8 ozs.; teaspoonful every 15 to ■ 
30 minutes, avoiding emesis and lengthening time as it begins' 
to take effect, useful where there is short, difficult breathing,, 
cough loose and heavy, but cannot raise the phlegm, difficult'; 
breathing with fits of suffocation, sense of paralysis of the" 
lungs, the inside of chest feels like it was lined with velvet,, 
nausea and strains to vomit, bilious pneumonia. 

Veratrum viride gtts. 5 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour in first stage when congestion and inflammation has first 
developed, high fever with strong, quick pulse, nausea and 
vomiting a glary mucus, sinking faint feeling in pit of stom- 
ach, a constant burning distress in the region of the heart, in- 



;240 THEREFLECTOR i 

termittent pulse, a red streak down the tongue. This disease 
may be complicated with some other disease, like pleurisy or 
typhoid fever. Pleurisy will require the treatment most gen- 
erally outlined above, except pleuritic effusion, which comes 
within the domain of surgery. 

The room should be well ventilated and an even tempera- 
ture of 70 degrees and the atmosphere kept moist with steam 
and in some instances may use lime or vinegar, should it relieve 
the breathing of the patient. Hot fermentations or a linseed 
meal poultice will frequently give relief to the pain. There is 
nothing equal to dry heat in lung highly congested. Cloths 
should be ironed with a hot iron and applied dry over the chest 
and the ironing done lightly and continuously without ever re- 
moving the cloth for several hours. To let the chest become 
cool after heat is once applied is very bad treatment and had 
better be omitted, and should never be used except in the first 
stage. During the inflammatory stage the diet should be light, 
but where there is no appetite all food should be withheld. If 
the tongue is clean, the appetite will be sufficient to receive 
most any nourishing food that may be given. Only mucilagin- 
ous drinks, as gum arable or slippery elm water or some acidul- 
ous drinks, as lemon juice, will be sufficient. It will be noticed 
that purgatives have had no notice in this disease, for the rea- 
son that all harsh treatment should be avoided. 

Rheumatism — There are four forms of this disease, though 
they appear to blend into one another, and sometimes rapidly 
change from one to the other and are classified as rheumatic 
fever, acute inflammatory rheumatism, sub-acute rheumatism 
and chronic rheumatism. The causes .of rheumatism are cold 
from sudden changes of temperature, arrest of secretion, imper- 
fect digestion, and mental worry and fatigue. The predispos- 
ing cause is an inherited tendency. The blood contains an ex- 
cess of lactic acid and the points bear the brunt of the attack. 
The synovial membrane is reddened, the synovial fluid becomes 
thinner, the swelling about the affected part depends mostly on 
the inflammation of the connective tissue around the joint. The 
pain is due to the stretching of the tissues by the dilated capil- 
laries and the inflammatory swelling. The onset is generally 
sudden, frequently at night, possibly with a chill, followed with 
an elevated range of temperature from 102 degrees to 108 de- 



THEREFLECTOR 241 

:grees in rare cases, pulse seldom exceeding 95 per minute. 
There is pain and stiffness of the joints, loss of appetite, great 
thirst, profuse acid sweats, scanty, high colored, acid urine and 
constipation. 

The duration of the disease is variable, continuing from a 
few days to several weeks. The disease is generally considered 
favorable as to fatality, except in some complications. 

Treatment — This disease is one that requires patience and 
regularity in treatment and the selection of the remedy with 
reference to the pathological condition and drug action. 

Aconite gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour where 
there is fever and great agitation of the heart, parts red, swol- 
len and sensitive to touch or motion, restless and anxiety of 
mind, keen pain in region of kidneys and retention of urine. 

Ammonium phosphate grs. 10 to 20, well diluted, three 
times per day, where the finger joints and hand are involved; 
no appetite and some emaciation, irritable, nervous and sleep- 
lessness, evening fever and the right side mostly affected. 

Arnica gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every one or 
two hours, acute superficial inflammation, the affected part 
swollen, red and hard, bruised or sprained feeling, lame, sen- 
sation as if the afflicted part was l.ying against some hard sub- 
stance, very cautious about being touched. 

Arsenic gtts. 1 to 2, well diluted, every three or four hours, 
where there is burning, tearing pain and pale swelling, pain 
relieved by heat, profuse sw^eat, which relieves pain, but leaves 
patient weak, cold and hot flashes alternate, moves limb for 
ease, thirsty, but drinks little at a time. 

Apis gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every three 
hours w^here there is suppressed urine, burns and stings when 
voided ; puffy swelling and burning and stinging of the part. 

Apocynum can. (Indian hemp) gtts. 5 to 30, w^ater 4 ozs ; 
teaspoonful every hour, absence of fever; pulse soft and weak, 
puffiness of the tissue, either of the part affected, or feet, hands 
or eyelids ; useful in sciatica. 

Belladonna gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
where there is redness and shining, swelling of the joints, 
pressing, cutting, tearing pains in the bones, darting pains from 
joint along the limb, fever, with dry, hot skin, thirst and throb- 
bing headache, pains come and go suddenly, pulsating of the 



242 THEREFL ECTOR 

carotids, drowsy, sleeping and easily excited, worse of an even- 
ing, parts sore and painful to touch. 

Bryonia gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every one 
or two hours, pain resembles an inflammation of serous mem- 
branes, stitching, tearing pains , worse from motion, headache 
from forehead to back of head, sore scalp, dry, hot skin, or else 
perspiration of an acid character, bitter taste, dry mouth and 
great thirst, flushed right cheek, hard, wiry pulse, hard, dry 
stools, scanty, high colored urine. 

Caulophyllum (blue cohosh) gtts. 5 to 15 every two hours 
where the disease involves the fingers and wrists with much 
swelling, shifts from extremities to back and nape of neck, 
muscles rigid, oppression of chest, high fever and nervous ex- 
citement, 

Chamonile gtts. 10 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour where there is a drawing, tearing pain with a sensation of 
numbness or lameness of the parts, continuous pain, worse at 
night, tossing from one position to another, becomes furious, ir- 
ritability of temper, very cross and snappish, hot sweating 
about head, one cheek red and the other pale. 

Cheledonium majus gtts. 5 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every hour, constant pain under .the lower, inner angle of the 
right shoulder blade, rheumatic swelling with stone-like hard- 
ness of the affected parts. 

Cimicifuga (black cohosh) gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs.; tea- 
spoonful every hour where there is articular rheumatism of the 
lower extremities, heat and swelling of the parts, pains cause 
patient to cry out, fever, muscular pains, skin hot, but moist, 
tensive, cramp-like pain, parts feel as if they were in clamps. 

Colchicum gtts. 1 to 10 every one or two hours, acute gouty 
and inflammatory condition, pains, butning, tearing, jerking 
and frequently shifting, freeze and burns at same time while 
near a hot stove, strong fluttering beat of heart, sour-smelling 
sweats, urine dark and scanty, deposits a white sediment in ves- 
sel. 

Eiipatorium (boneset) gtts. 5 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoon- 
ful every hour ; deep-seated soreness of back and limbs, aching 
apparently in the bones, sweats during fever, nausea with full 
pulse, hot, sweaty skin, cough, jerks'with severe pain. 



THEREFLECTOR 243 

Nux vomica gtts. 5 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
one or two hours where the pain is especially in back, loins, 
chest or joints with pale tensive swelling, tensive jerking or 
pulling pains, aggravated bj' contact or motion, numbness or 
lameness in affected parts with twitching of the muscles, sensi- 
tive to cold, warm and chilly at the same time, pain relieved by 
sweating ; habitually constipated. 

Phytolacca (poke root) gtts. 10 to 30, water 4 ozs. ; teas- 
poonful every one to three hours ; adapted especially to chronic 
eases, involving the glands, sore mouth or throat, the urine 
whitish and transparent, joints swollen and red, pains in mid- 
dle of long bones or attachments of muscles, pains shooting from 
one part to another, worse in damp weather and at night. 

Pulsatilla gtts. 10 to 30, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
two hours where there is not much swelling of the affected 
parts, pains shift rapidly from one part to another, parts feel 
heavy, chilly and warm at same time, desires cold air, worse 
in warm room, cries and apprehends trouble, bad taste in 
mouth. 

Rhododendron (mountain laurel) gtts. 1 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; 
teaspoonful every hour where there is a drawing, tearing pains 
in joints and limbs, violent pleuritic stitches, pains worse at 
rest and during rough, stormy weather, redness and swelling of 
single joints, as knee and elboM^ 

Rhus tox. gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every two 
to three hours ; pain better after exercise, tearing, drawing, 
burning, as if sprained with sensation of lameness and creeping 
in the parts ; better from continual motion and external 
warmth ; frontal headache, small, sharp stroke of pulse, promi- 
nence of the papillae of tongue with sometimes a forked or boot- 
jack coat. 

Veratrum viride gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every hour; high fever, sometimes a red streak down the 
tongue, the left shoulder, hip and knee especially involved, 
bones ache. 

The excretory functions should be noticed and if the tongue 
shows a dirtv, ashy coat, sodium sulphite grs. 5 to 10 every 
three hours till removed. If a yellow or brown coat, podophyl- 
lum gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every two hours till 
tongue is clear. 



244 T H E H E F L E C T O R 

The kidneys may require attention and grs. 15 to 30 of 
citrate of potash, well diluted, every three hours will do good 
service. 

Acetate of potash may be used instead. Quinine and opium 
one grain each every one or two hours where there is peroidi- 
city will act kindly. 

There is another form of rheumatism of the joints where 
they squeak, on motion, like new leather, painful cracking of 
the spine just below the head and down between the shoulders ^ 
the wrist and other joints feel like they were unjointed, hands^ 
alternate cold and hot; one foot cold and the other hot, indi- 
cates coculus indicus gtts. 2 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; a teaspoonful 
every one or two hours. 

Muriate of ammonia grs. 160 and aromatic elixer sufficient, 
to make one ounce and taken in teaspoonful doses from three 
to six times a day has been used successfully, and an adver- 
tising firm became wealthy from its sales. It may be prepared 
in any quantity in the given proportions. 

Persons subject to rheumatism should wear flannel next 
the skin; should avoid over exertion and mental worry; drink 
plenty of pure water and never overload the stomach. Rest 
during an attack. Hot fomentations applied to the painful 
parts will often afford relief. Cotton batting can be used in en- 
veloping the parts. The room should be kept light and well 
ventilated. Diet should be light and nutritious, body kept, 
clean, bowels regular and kidneys active. 

Smallpox — The disease is acute, epidemic and contagious, 
characterized by chill, a rise of temperature, pains principally 
in the back, lasting from three to four days, followed by the ap- 
pearance of an eruption, giving the sensation to the fingers of 
small shot under the skin. There are two forms recognized as 
discrete and confluent; the first is mild, known as varioloid, 
the points of eruption being distinct and separate, the second 
severe, the eruption being profuse, and so closely situated as to 
run into each other. Its duration is divided into three stages r 
incubation, maturation and decline. Incubation, or hatching- 
period comprises the time from exposure to the cause to the de- 
velopment of the chill, and may be from seven to sixteen days, 
average time about twelve days. The disease generally about 
the sixth or seventh day after exposure causes the patient to 



THEREFLECTOR 245 

feel the sensation of weariness, languor and irregular appetite 
and exertion. The symptoms increase until the day preceding 
the chill, when the patient cannot follow his daily occupation. 
The soreness of the muscles, pain in back and head, nausea, and 
chilly sensations pass over the body, which is generally fol- 
lowed by flashes of heat, the fever in a short time rising to 103 
to 104 degrees, the pulse full, strong and rapid, ranging from 
100 to 130; the face red, eyes suffused, intense headache, and 
sleeeplessness. About the third day the characteristic eruption 
makes its appearance, first on the forehead, lips, possibly in 
mouth and throat, consisting of coarse red spots, with the ap- 
pearance of the eruption, all the marked symptoms of the fever 
abate and the patient feeling a sense of relief. The red spots 
change to papules on or about the fifth day, and the sixth day 
transformed into cysts, or cells, with a little depression in the 
center, and on the eighth day the vesicles are changed to pus- 
tules and on the ninth day the pustules are entirely formed and 
full of pus and each surrounded with a red band, the face be- 
coming swollen and the features distorted ; on the eleventh day 
pus begins to ooze from the pustules, drying, forms the scab or 
crust, which drop off from the seventeenth to the twenty-first, 
leaving a red, glistening depression or pit, soon changing into 
a white cicatrix. At the stage of pus formation, about the 
eighth day, a second chill and fever develop, followed by the 
characteristic odor of the disease, goat scent, all the original 
symptoms returning, being the most critical period of the dis- 
ease. In mild cases, convalescence is established in three or 
four days. 

Treatment — Aconite gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoon- 
ful every hour at the beginning, during fever, especially if 
there be congestion to the head or lungs, headache, nose bleed- 
ing, eyes injected, fullness in chest, with increased action of the 
heart, pain in back and limbs. 

Ammonium carb. grs. 5 to 10 every three hours where there 
is hemorrhage from nose, gums or bowels, putrid sore throat 
and a tendency to gangrenous ulcers. 

Apis gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozes. ; teaspoonful every two or 
three hours where the redness assumes the form of erysipelas, 
with stinging, burning pains, sensation in abdomen as if there 
were a tight band trying to break. r 



246 THEREFLECTOR 

Arsenic gtts. 1 to 2 every three or four hours where the 
eruption is dark and the skin turns blue or livid, strength 
fails rapidly, small, frequent pulse and restlessness, thirsty, 
drinking little and often, very irritable and excited. 

Belladonna gtts. 5 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour where there is congestion of the head and throbbing or 
stitching pain in the head, high fever and sore throat, excited 
and jumping in sleep, severe pain in back. 

Camphor gtts. 5 every half to one hour where the pustules 
suddenly dry up and the swelling disappears ; great prostra- 
tion and the sinking of vital force, skin very cold, but cannot 
bear cover. i 

Cimicifuga gtts. 10 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour where the flesh feels sore and bruised, nausea, reduces the 
danger of pitting. 

Hydrastis gtts. 1 to 5 every one to two hours where there 
is great swelling and itching of skin, with a very sore throat, 
itching in small of the back, legs feel weak and ache. 

Opium (laudanum) gtts. 5 to 20 every three or four 
hours where the brain becomes depressed, unconscious, with 
stertorous breathing, dilated pupils. 

Rhus tox. gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
two to three hours where there are typhoid symptoms, tongue 
dry and cracked with red tip and prominence of the papillae, 
sordes on lips and teeth, mind wandering, very restless, worse 
after midnight. 

Sulphite of soda grs. 10 to 20 every three or four hours 
where the tongue shows a pallid, dirty and moist expression ; 
the patient should wash out the mouth and gargle the throat 
and rinse it with a bath. 

Tartar emetic, gr. 1 to 8 ozs. of water; teaspoonful every 
half to one hour, avoiding emesis or sick stomach and length- 
ening the time as its effect appears. It changes bad cases into 
a milder form, reduces fever, and the pustules run their course 
without leaving scarcely a mark behind, especially indicated 
where there is much irritation of the respiratory organs. 

Baptisia is the remedy in the development of sepsis as 
shown by a deep red, dusky or livid color of the mucous mem- 



THEREFLECTOR 247 

brane and skin and indicate a severe case. Gtts. 10 to 20, water 
4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. 

Cleanliness is one of the most essential things in this dis- 
ease. The body should be bathed in warm water every day 
and clothing changed and aired, or better, boiled in a little 
lime water and rinsed. 

The bowels should be opened with small doses of epsom 
salts. 

When the pustule reaches the wheying and thumping 
stage, generally from the third to the fifth day, a small slit 
with a keen knife at the base or next the skin will give relief 
without pitting. 

A bath tub of water as hot as can be borne by the patient 
is very soothing. The room should be kept well ventilated and 
dark with a temperature as near 60 degrees as possible. Diet 
light; rice, oatmeal, toast and eggs, with mucilaginous drinks. 
To disinfect, burn sulphur in room and thoroughly air out. 

The clothing can be buried in the ground a few days. 
which will destroy the contagion. Vaccination is the applica- 
tion of vaccine virus to arm or other portions of the body, by 
using some sharp instrument to scrape, until the true skin is 
reached and blood begins to ooze ; when the lymph is brushed 
over the abraded surface ; or, instead make three or four hori- 
zontal and transverse cuts sufficient to causing the oozing of 
blood ; should the blood run out the virus will not take. The 
scab from the arm of a healthy person and worked up with n 
little water to the thickness of cream is considered good virus. 
If the vaccination "takes," or the virus sets, the papule will 
appear about the third day, and will go through its variations 
till about the twenty-first day, when the scab falls off. 

Typhoid, Fever — This disease is an acute febrile affection, 
supposed to be due to a special poison, characterized by a dull 
headache, stupor, abdominal tenderness, early diarrhoea, a 
peculiar eruption on the abdomen, rapid prostration and slow 
convalescence, a lesion of Peyer's glands. It is regarded as 
contagious to a small degree and continues about twenty- 
eight days, but, like other diseases, depends greatly on the na- 
ture of the ease. 



^48 THE REFLECTOR 

The cause of its deevlopment is anything that will depress 
vital force and no person, unless of feeble vitality, or laboring 
under some cause that produces depression at the time of ex- 
posure, can have an original case of typhoid fever. It is true, 
however, that if the cause acts heavily upon the system and 
the person is susceptible to its influence, typhoid will rapidly 
develop. Animal matter in a state of decomposition is the 
exciting cause of this disease and generates in the system^ and 
if it continues sufficiently long the blood becomes engaged in 
the process of decomposition, and thus there will be seen a 
more or less rapid breaking down of the tissues, and the ex- 
cretory organs being in such condition that it cannot be freely 
removed, morbid material of the body remaining in the blood. 
"Wherever filth is undergoing decomposition, the poison of 
typhoid fever may be produced, provided the air is in a con- 
dition to aid the result. There is a certain state of putridness 
in matter, either vegetable or animal, in which the zymotic 
poison is generated, and its gaseous emanations are borne to 
us upon the gentle breeze, or in the drinking water, and hav- 
ing within itself an affinity for certain parts of the system 
produce the disease. It is a disease peculiar to young adults 
between 18 and 25 years ; rare after 40 years. It is more preva- 
lent in hot, dry seasons. The range of temperature is character- 
istic of this type of fever and the severity of the disease de- 
pends greatly upon its restraint. Its average is from 102 de- 
grees to 104 degrees, with a difference of one-half to one de- 
gree between morning and evening and a rise to a 106 degrees 
to 107 degrees, shows a serious condition. The onset is grad- 
ual, with a feeling of general malaise, tired, headache, disor- 
dered digestion, disturbed sleep, nose bleeding, depression and 
muscular weakness, sometimes chill or chilly, the patient be- 
ing unable to designate the day of the first symptom. 

The pulse increases according to rise of temperature, 
sometimes frequent, full and open, or soft and weak, in some 
eases soft and easily compressed, or, if of a nervous character, 
quick and sharp. The tongue is generally coated with a dirty 
mucus, and is broad, soft, flabby and moist, coat more often 
in center, but with redden tip and edges, very thirsty. The 
tongue, in some cases, is heavily loaded, especially at the base, 



THEREFLECTOR 249 

with bad taste in mouth and the feeling of oppression in the 
regions of the stomach, indicating morbid accummulations. 
The urine is slightly diminished in quantity and of a turbid 
and frothy character, but does not deposit a sediment ; the 
bowels may or may not be natural as to frequency, but very 
susceptible to the action of medicine ; the discharges being 
thin, pale and frothy. The skin varies greatly as to the tem- 
perature, sometimes it is very hot and pungent, but frequently 
only slightly increased with a tendency to coldness of the ex- 
tremities. There is generally a dull countenance, pallid and 
shrunken features, face transiently flushed, the eyes heavy 
and devoid of lustre, the head heavy and giddy. Some pa- 
tients exhibit great uneasiness and restlessness, frequently 
changing positions, but at other times is sluggish, careless and 
unimpressible. The respirations are but little changed the 
first two or three days, but sometimes frequent and suspicious. 
From the fifth to the sixth day the head has become more 
affected and the mind confused ; the patient thinks slowly and 
speaks, after trying to collect his thoughts; that dreamy de- 
lirium having appeared, known as typhomania. It may, how- 
ever, develop later in the advancement of the disease. The 
respirations have changed to a shorter and quicker and a more 
labored condition. In some cases the symptoms of the affec- 
tion begin as early as the second or third day, or at farthest 
by the end of the first week. The bowels are irregular, the 
patient begins to complain of soreness and tenderness of the 
bowels and pressure upon the abdomen, especially in the right 
side, produces pain. The bowels may be quite loose by the 
tenth or twelfth day, with increased tenderness on pressure, 
and flatulent distension of the abdomen. The coatnig of the 
tongue has been undergoing a change, may be brown and fis- 
sured, or the coating having disappeared, the tongue is dry, 
red and glossy; sordes begin to appear on the teeth and lips. 
About this time, though sometimes earlier, the rose-colored 
eruption makes its appearance upon the neck, breast or abdo- 
men. This eruption manifests itself in small rose-colored spots 
about the size of the head of a pin, the color disappearing un- 
der pressure of the finger, but returns when pressure is re- 
moved. The patient, by this time, has become so weak that 



'^50 THEREFLECTOR 

assistance is required to change positions. Conditions may 
continue to grow worse, till the twenty-first day, the activity 
of the bowels becoming greater, the discharges being dark, 
fetid and very offensive, and the abdomen very much dis- 
tented; the coating upon the tongue has changed to almost 
black, and the teeth and lips covered with a dark offensive 
sordes. F'requently the heat of the surface sinks and the ex- 
tremities are kept warm with difficulty and there appears a 
fetid perspiration. The patient tries to slip towards the foot 
of the bed. The vitality of the patient becomes so exhausted 
that there is no longer power to circulate the blood and the pa- 
tient dies. Where the temperature remains 104 deg^rees, morn- 
ing and evening, or the morning temperature exceeds the 
evening, either is an unfavorable sign. The pulse range is 10 
beats to each degree of fever on an average. A temperature 
range of 103 degrees to 105 degrees will give the frequency 
of the pulse, according to age, from 110, 115 to 130 and 140 
beats per minute. 

The above descriptition is an effort to describe an unfav- 
orable typical case as a guide in comparison with a more fav- 
orable condition. Any change for the better in any case will 
show an increase of vitality and a more lively expression. 

Treatment — There are three objects in the treatment of 
typhoid fever to be considered : "First, to remove any unpleas- 
ant symptoms and make the patient as pleasant as possible ; 
second, to shorten the duration of the disease, and, third, to 
control any morbid accumulations that might lead to fatal re- 
sults. To cure the disease is left out of this calculation, for 
the reason that it is the tendency of 97 per cent of the cases 
to recover; therefore to cure the disease will be successful in 
only a small percentage of cases. Treatment to cut short its 
duration will be successful in a large percentage in arresting 
its progress from the seventh to the fourteenth day. It will 
fail where the bowels become early and heavily involved and 
in those cases where there are other complications. If the ef- 
forts put forth to check its advancement fail, persistence in 
the use of means for this purpose will prove injurious by be- 
coming a depressent. A control of the morbid process and 
holding in check its accumulations, and especially complica- 



THEREPLECTOR 251 

tions and sustain the patient's strength, is the course to pur- 
sue until the disease has run its usual course of three or four 
weeks. 

If there be morbid accumulations in the stomach as shown 
by a heavily coated tongue and a sense of nausea, a loss of ap- 
petite, dull headache, restless from sick stomach, the first 
thing is to empty the contents and then keep it clean there- 
after. Lobelia, 5 to 10 drops, every ten minutes Avill be ef- 
fective. Mucilaginous drinks, slippery elm or gum arable 
should be given often and plentiful throughout the disease. 
The body must be kept clean inside and outside, and these two 
things should be kept constantly in mind. Now the study of 
the remedy applicable to the expressed conditions of the pa- 
tient, as shown by the looks and described by himself, are ob- 
vious. 

Aconite gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
where there is fever following chill, great heat, dry, burning 
skin, very thirsty, full, bounding pulse, easily excited, nervous 
excitability, vertigo and headache as if everything would press 
through the forehead ; used mostly in first stages only. 

Baptisia gtts. 3 to 5 every two to three hours where there 
is sepsis, especially in the early stages, dark, red face, with a 
besotted look, dull, stupefying headache, with confused mind, 
head feels like it was torn apart, and patient tosses about try- 
ing to collect the pieces, tongue coated brown, dry, especially 
in the center, sordes on ' teeth, breath offensive and 
exhaustive diarrhoea, fetid sweat, urine and actions from 
bowels odor heavy. 

Bryonia gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour where there is a red face, burning and swollen, lips dry, 
brownish and cracked, tongue coated with a thick, white or 
yellowish fur, changing later to brown and dry, oppressive, 
stupefying headache, pain as if head would split in two, con- 
stant delirium, with strange fancies, imagines he is away from 
home and wants to return, wants to sleep, with sudden start- 
ing and strange dreams, or sleeplessness and restless tossing, 
dryness of the mouth, drinks large quantities of water at a 
time, soreness in the stomach, constipated, hard, dry stools 



252 T H E R E F L E C T O R 

Belladonna gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
where there is a flushed face and red, sparkling eyes with 
dilated pupils, throbbing headache, with a heavy pulsating of 
the carotids, disturbed by noise, delirium with a wild look, 
tries to bite, strike and quarrel, jumping during sleep, cannot 
sleep, tongue red and cracked, mouth dry or red on the edges 
and white in the center, abdomen tender and sore. 

E-hus tox. gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every one 
to three hours where there is great nervousness , trembling and 
tongue protrudes with a jerk, red and smooth or red at tip 
and coated in a triangular or boot- jack shape, papilla promi- 
nent, delirium and obstructed hearing, severe pains in limbs 
and worse at rest and after midnight. 

Arnica gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
where there is a brown streak in the middle of tongue ; 
thoughts confused, forgets the words, sore, bruised feeling all 
through the body. If conscious, complains of hard bed. 

Lycoporium, gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
hour where there is a relaxation of under jaw, mouth open, 
tongue dry, cracked or coated with tough mucus, circum- 
scribed redness of cheeks ; uses wrong words in talking, fan- 
like motion of nose, bowels swollen, with rumbling, especially 
in left side, a constant sensation of fullness of the stomach, 
extending up the throat; does not want to be left alone, a red 
sand-like sediment in urine, awakes cross and irritable. 

Charcoal (triturated 1 to 10, wood) grs. 5 to 10 three or 
four times a day where there is torpor of the vital functions ; 
mostly in last stages of abdominal and putrid typhus ; face pale 
and sunken and cold, eyes sunken and without lustre and in- 
sensible to light, tongue dry, dark and tremulous or sometimes 
moist and sticky; diarrhoea, brownish, grayish or bloody, 
death-like odor and act involuntary, prostration, wants more 
air and to be fanned all the tiirre, extremities covered with cold 
sweat. 

Opium (tincture), gtts. 5 to 20 every three or four hours 
where there is extreme drowsiness and coma, with stertorous 
breathing, delirious, talks with eyes- wide open, pulse full and 
labored, or slow and feeble, involvement of the brain, involun- 
tarv stools and retention of urine. 



THERBFLECTOR 253 

Gellsemium, gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
<;very one or two hours where there are bright eyes and con- 
tracted pupils, in the early stages; nervous symptoms pre- 
dominate, great fullness in head, chillines and heat of face, 
head feels too large, tongue coated thick, white or yellowish 
brown, nervous chills, with chattering of teeth and fever with- 
out thirst. 

Ilemamelis, gtts. 2 to 10 every half to every hour where 
there is engorgement, inflammation and hemorrhage of the 
venous system, hemorrhage profue from the bowels, blood 
black, partly coagulated, and offensive, with a bruised, sore 
feeling in abdomen and hips. 

Hyoscyamus, gtts. 1 to 5 every hour where there is increased 
arterial tension and the frequency of the pulse, with a quicken- 
ing of the intestinal movements and breathing, twitching and 
jerking of limbs, eyes red and sparkling, staring, rolling about 
in their orbits, great restlessness and jumping out of bed, mut- 
tering, with picking at bed clothes, loss of speech and con- 
sciousness, furious, delirium, while awake, lips look like 
scorched leather, tongue either red or brown and cracked. 

Stramonium (jimson weed), gtts. 1 to 10, water i ozs.; 
teaspoonful CA^ery hour where there is a loss of consciousness, 
with involuntary motions of limbs, continuous, and earnest 
talking, constant and repeated jerking head up from the pil- 
low, tongue 3'ellowish-brown and dry in the center, lips sore 
and cracked, with sordes on the teeth, blackish diarrhoea, and 
smells like carrion, loss of sight, hearing and speech, urine 
copiously' and involuntary discharged. 

Pulsatilla, gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
two hours, febrile heat, mingled with chilliness; used in early 
stages where there are gastric disturbances ; tongue thickly 
coated and bad taste in mouth in morning; taste df putrid 
meat in the mouth with an inclination to vomit; symptoms 
very changeable, feeling well one hour and miserable the next. 

Muriatic acid, diluted, gtts. 5 to 10 in water every three 
or four hours, and never to be given just before nourishment 
is taken, where there is a deep red tongue, or coated brown, 
with dry mouth and sordes on teeth; advanced stages of ty- 
phiod; patient stupid, unconscious and extreme prostration, 



254 THEREFLECTOR 

constant sliding down in bed, low, muttering delirium, groan- 
ing in sleep, and picking at bed clothes, tongue dry and can- 
not be protruded, lower jaw depressed, boring head into pil- 
low, rolls up whites of eyes, involuntary action of bowels and 
kidneys. 

Nitric acid, highly diluted, gtts. 2 to 10, in water, every 
three hours where the tongue is a dark red or violet hue, dry 
and covered with a glazed fibrinous coating; virulent poison 
seems present, mostly in advanced stages of the disease, bowels; 
inclined to looseness, with green, slimy, acrid stools, with se- 
vere pain ; hemorrhage from bowels, and abdomen very sen- 
sitive, irregular pulse, fainting strength, very offensive urine. 

Sodium sulphite, grs. 5 to 15 every three hours in sepsis,, 
indicated where there is a dirty, ashy coat of the tongue and if 
the tongue shows a snow, or cream white, bicarbonate of soda 
should be substituted and used in the drinking water sufficient 
to taste. 

Veratrum viride, gtts. 5 to 15, Avater 4 ozs. ; teaspoonfuL 
every one-half to two hours where there is a red streak down, 
the tongue and where the fever is high, with a hot, dry skin, 
pulse full and bounding, showing increase power of heart, witk 
obstruction in the capillary circulation or where the blood 
flows freely and full in the first stages of febrile action. It is 
not advisable to continue any one sedative too long, as it may 
become a depressent rather than a sedative. 

Chlorine water finds its place in this disease and will be- 
effective where there is any indication of sepsis. 

Chlorate of potash, dr. 1, muriatic acid, full strength, dr. 1.. 
Put the potash in a clean 4 ounce bottle, pour in the acid and 
cork the bottle. When the potash has become dissolved and 
the fumes rise, fill the bottle, add soft or rain water suf- 
ficient to fill the bottle. An adult dose will be a teaspoonful 
in an ounce of water three or four times a day. An excellent 
mouth wash. 

Hemorrhage may occur about the third or fourth week, and 
if the pulse is full and bounding, showing a labored heart's- 
action or smooth, showing a free flow, veratrum should be 
given often enough to slow down the heart and fifteen or 
twenty drops of ergot given one-half to every hour to close' 



THEREFLECTOR 255 

■the leaky blood vessels. The bowels should be washed out, in 
about two or three hours, with warm water with ten drops of 
-carbolic acid to the quart and the bowels are clear, inject three 
or four ounces of water containing 3 or 4 drops each of nitric 
.and phosphoric acid and let remain as long as possible. Gal- 
lic acid grs. 1 to 10, highly diluted, and repeated every one- 
half to every hour, is very effective in checking hemorrhage. 
Baths, to keep the skin clean, is a very essential thing to re- 
lieve the kidneys and to assist the blood in eliminating inpuri- 
ties. Wrapping the patient in a wet sheet is an excellent 
thing to produce sweating in high fever. The application of 
liot water and a light current of air produced with a fan will 
reduce the fever in thirty minutes. When the patient com- 
j)lains of chilliness he should be covered and the process re- 
peated, as the temperature begins to rise again and continue 
this method three or four times or until the symptoms are 
abated. The water should be as hot as can be used, for it is 
the rapid evaporation that cools the fever. 

The patient should be kept in a well ventilated room 
and away from noise. Disinfect all discharges and soiled 
clothing immediately. Use a hair mattress, and if possible have 
two. so that the bedding can be frequently changed and aired. 
Guard against bed sores by bathing back and hips, on all red 
spots, with grain alcohol. Diet is of the greatest importance. 
It should consist of fresh sweet milk given in moderate quan- 
tities every three hours. Good fresh buttermilk is excellent 
and may he had almost any time. Thin gruel made of corn 
starch, oatmeal or rice may be allowed for a change. Beef 
tea, mutton or chicken broth may be taken later. No solid 
food should be allowed. Take the slime off slippery elm bark 
and drink the Avater also, will assist in dissolving the accumu- 
lated mucus of stomach and bowels. Give freely. Don't forget 
that the Avater must be pure. Use a syringe and plenty of 
"water to unload the bowels and avoid purgatives, if the lia- 
bility to hemorrhages is to be escaped. Sleep is one of na- 
ture's methods to restore strength to an exhausted body. No 
patient shoukl be disturbed in sleep. Imagine one tired from 
labor and have to be disturbed every few minutes during the 
night. Don't be uneasy about the patient sleeping to death, 



256 THEREFLECTOR 

for if he is that low he will die. It is a good plan to remember 
to give a little turpentine two or three times a day where the 
secretions are checked, indicated by a dry mouth and red 
tongue. 

A clear head, a kind disposition and patience are admira- 
ble qualities in a sick room. 



SHORT SAYINGS ON IMPORTANT SUBJECTS. 



Abortion Threatened — Elixir of opium, gtts. 20 every 
hour till pain is relieved, then follow with black haw 60 drops 
every three hours, or viburnum opulus. Where pains are 
threatning may repeat every hour. Ergot, gtts. 5 every hour 
has been used with success in some cases. 

Abscess — Sulphide of calcium (triturated 1-10) gr. 1-10 
every three hours. 

Acid Stomach — A little acidulate water before meals ; 
either muriatic or sulphuric acid. One drop of carbolic acid 
with a little glycerine water taken after meals will relieve 
eructations. A drop or two of nux vomica in half to a cupful 
of water an hour before meals will assist wonderfully. 

After-Pains — Elixir of opium gtts. 20, virburnum opulus, 
teaspoouful in warm water every hour will give good results. 

Agalactia— Jaborandi gtts. 1 to 20 every one or two hours 
is reputed to increase the action of the glands and augment the 
milk flow. To check flow, make a paste of the iodide of potas- 
sium, vaseline, or lard and apply to the breast. 

Alopecia — Where the scalp is dirty, wash the head with 
soft water and soap. If a black color of the hair is desired, 
apply the following while wet ; if a brown is preferable, use 
when dry: 

Take 4 drams of pyro-gallic acid and one ounce of alcohol 
and mix; then take 30 grains of sodium sulphite and three 
ounces of soft water and mix, then pour the two together and 
it is ready for use. Apply with a brush. 

Amenorrhoea — A retarded appearance of the menses may 
follow as the result of several causes. The hot sitz bath will 



THEREFLECTOR 257 

often give relief. Should there be febrile symptoms, aconite 
gtts. 10 to water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. If there is 
puffiness about the eyes, hands or feet, apis, gtts 10 to water 4 
ozs.; teaspoonful every three hours; senecio aureus (life root), 
gtts. 10 to 20 every three hours is effective. If accompanied 
with rheumatic pains of a keen, cutting character, bryonia^ 
gtts. 10 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. Pusatilla, 
gtts. 2 to 5 every three hours where the patient is gloomy. 

A systematic builder : Helonias, half ounce ; caulophyl- 
lum, half ounce ; hyoscyamus, two drams ; simple syrup, 4 ozs. ; 
teaspoonful every three hours. 

Apthae — Thrush — Wash mouth with borax water, grs. 10 
to 1 oz. ; permangranate of potash, grs. 5 to water 1 oz. ; chlorate 
of potash, grs. 10, water 4 ozs.' May be used every one or two 
hours or as often as deemed necessary. 

Asthma— Ambrosia, 2 ozs. ; Pulsatilla, 2 drs. ; 6 to 15 drops 
three times a day. 

Bed-Sores — Bathe all red spots with good alcohol or 
whisky and dust sores with oxide of zinc. 

Bilousness — Podophyllum, gtts. 10 to 20; simple syrup, 1- 
ozs. ; teaspoonful everj^ two or three hours. The effect should 
appear about the second or third day from the time of taking 
the first dose. 

Bladder — "Where there is burning or stinging, with a fre- 
quent desire, apis, gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
three hours. Benzoate of lithium or benzoate of ammonium, 5' 
to 6 grains in half glass of water three or four times a day. 
Where there is a white looking mucus pnlsatilla, gtts. 2 to 5- 
every three hours. Where there is a red sand-like sediment, 
lycopodium, gtts. 5 to 20 ; water, 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
three hours. 

Boils — The local application of belladonna is often effica- 
cious. Acetate of potash, grs. 10 to 15, well diluted, every 
three or four hours will render good service. 

Breast — Abscesses Of — Apply a poke root poultice. Use 
acetate of potash as given for boils. 

Blight's Disease— Aconite should be given if there is 
fever. Tincture of cantharides, gtts. 2 to 5 every three or four 
hours may act kindly. Digitallis, gtts. 10 to 20, water 4 ozs. ; 



258 T H E R E F L E (J T (J H 

teaspoonful every three hours where there is puffiness. Tur- 
pentine, one drop every two hours, will be an excellent remedy 
in dropsical effusion. The bowels should be kept free with 
compound powder of jalap and senna. Gallic acid, grs. 1 to 
10 every two or three hours, where there is albuminuria, or 
Pulsatilla, gtts. 2 to 5 every three hours, and if a chronic form, 
helonias dioica, gtts. 10 to 15, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every 
three hours. 

Bronchitis — For fever, aconite gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teas- 
poonful every hour. Bryonia, gtt. 1 every two hours. Sharp, 
keen pain, tongue white, bowels constipated. If cough is spas- 
modic and worse at night, one drop of ipecac every hour. If 
sputa is scanty and tough, the syrup of sanguinary, three to 
ten drops every one or two hours. In the chronic form, sul- 
phide of calcium, one grain, triturated (1 to 10) every four 
hours. 

Bruises — The application of arnica is the best remedy. 
Where there is an abraded surface, marigold and arnica equal 
parts is the best. 

Burns — Tincture of urtica urens, one part to four of 
water, cloths wet and applied. St. John's root stewed in 
sweet oil or lard makes an excellent application in burns or 
bruises. 

Catarrh — Chill followed by fever, aconite, gtts. 10, water 
4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. Belladonna may be added to 
the aconite in same amount, if throat is dusky red and tonsils 
swollen. 

Chi'cken Pox — During febrile action, aconite in the usual 
dose and tea of the butterfly weed will be useful given in al- 
teration every one or two hours. 

Chilblains — Frostbite — The application of arnica, benzoin 
and glycerine, equal parts. Applied, after soaking parts in 
soapsuds, is a good remedy, or equal parts of sulphurous acid 
and water. 

Colds or Catarrh — Acute Influenza — If the onset begins 
with a chill, a few drops of camphor on sugar is very efficient 
given every half hour. Aconite, common tincture, one-half to 
one drop every two hours. Wliere the eyes water or tears flow 
easily, or a watery fluid runs from the nose, followed by sneez- 



THEREFLECTOR 259 

ing, euphrasia, gtts. 1 to 5 every two or three hours. For a 
profuse flow of mucus, spray the nose or throat with equal 
parts of water and anemopsis californica every one to three 
hours. Pulverized galangal root snuffed into the nostrils will 
check sneezing immediately. 

Colic, Spasmodic — Renal — Spasmodic, disoscorea, ten t» 
twenty drops in hot water every half hour. Infantile colic, 
one drop of lobelia in warm water every few minutes. Gall- 
stone colic, inhale chloroform until relaxed and continue 
treatment by the use of sweet oil from one tablespoonful to 
six during the day, and chiananthus, gtts. 2 to 10 every two 
or three hours. 

Colicky pains in appendicitis, where the right leg is drawn 
up to relieve the muscles of the right side, colocynth, gtts. 1 to 
10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour and the bowels washed 
out with plenty of hot water will cure nine cases out of ten. 

Conjunctivitis — Tincture of belladonna three drops, sul- 
phate of zinc grs. 2, rose water 1 oz. Drop a few drops in the 
eyes twice a day. If there is profuse flow of tears, euphrasia, 
gtts. 10, rose water one ounce, and keep a cloth wet with same 
constantly applied. Colorless hydrastis reduced to one-sixth 
with water may be applied every half to every hour. Where 
there is a great flow of pus, tincture of myrrh reduced with 
water one-fourth and a drop or two used in the eye two or 
three times a day. Should always be used fresh, as a mixture 
with water causes a milky look and the gum falls out of solu- 
tion. 

Constipation — Regulation of habits, cold baths, one drop 
of nux vomica in a glass of cold water on rising of a morning,, 
and flushing the bowels with hot water will regulate the con- 
dition in four or six weeks. 

Croup' — False — Aconite, gtts. 5; ipecac, gtts. 10; water, 4' 
ozs. ; teaspoonful every half to every hour. 

Croup — True — ^Lobelia or ipecac from 5 to 10 drops every 
ten or twenty minutes until vomiting, and if child is large 
enough swab out throat with turpentine. 

Cystitis, Acute, Chronic — Acute cystitis, or inflammation 
of the bladder. Aconite, gtts. 10; belladonna, gtts. 10 to 10'; 
water, 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every one or two hours. If there is 



260 THEREFLECTOR 

a very acrid state of the urine, with very great pain, benzoate 
■of lithium, grs. 5, well diluted, every three or four hours till 
relieved. Chlorate of potash, grs. 2 to 3 every three hours. 
Tincture of cannabis indica, gtts. 5 or 6 every one to three 
hours as a pain reliever. 

In chronic cystitis, benzoic acid or benzoate of lithium, 
five grains every three hours. Button snake root (liatris 
spicata), gtts. 10 to 15, or uva ursi, gtts. 5 to 10 every hour, in 
warm water, will afford relief. 

Diarrhoea — Anamopsis californica, a teaspoonful to a half 
teacupful of water and a teaspoonful of the solution every 
hour. 

Dyphtheria — Equal parts of gelsemium and jaboranadi 
given from 10 to 20 drops every hour until complete relaxa- 
tion may be given every 20 or 30 minutes if desired. Give till 
relaxation, if not relieved before. Turpentine is an excellent 
remedy. The throat should be well supplied inside and out. It 
ma^^ be mixed with an equal amount of glycerine. Chlorate of 
potash may be used as a mouth wash or chlorine water, des- 
ricribed elsewhere. 

Dropsy — Apocynum cannabinum, gtts. 5 to 15 every two 
hours until it acts on bowels, kidneys or vomits. Less doses 
continued for several days is better in moderate cases. 

Dysentery — Aconite, gtts. 5 to 10, ipecac gtts. 10 to 20, 
water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every half to every hour. Tenesmus 
requires 10 to 20 drops of gelsemium every three or four hours 
unless it acts too heavily on the eyelids. 

Dysmenorrhoea — Discharges profuse, black and clotted; 
Pulsatilla, gtts. 2 to 5 every two or three hours. Viburnum 
opulus, gtts. 3 in hot water every fifteen to thirty minutes un- 
til relieved of cramp-like pains. Caulophyllum, senecio aureus 
and helonias dioica equal parts three ounces and taken in tea- 
spoonful doses before meals and continued for several weeks 
and attention given to otlier parts of the system, if needed. 
■will restore the normal functions in a short time. 

Dyspepsia — Rare or raw beef diet, with the following com- 
pound after each meal: Chaicoal, resorcin. sulphite of soda, of 
each 2 grains; pepsin, 1 grain; capsicum, 1-4 grain; nux vomica 



THEREFLECTOR 261 

1-6 grain. This is one powder and will cure ninety per cent of 
all uncomplicated cases. 

Enteritis — An inflammation of the upper bowels and in 
which heavy drugging claims many victims. Ten to fifteen 
drops of the deodorized tincture of opium every three or four 
hours to quiet the inflamed bowel. Aconite, gtts. 10, water i 
ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour, and turpentine stupe applied 
to abdomen. Olive oil a tablespoonful, to which 6 drops of 
turpentine is added, may be given every three or four hours. 
Keep lower bowels clean with in.jections of hot water, meant 
to be as warm as can be borne. 

Oil with a little turpentine may be poured on a flannel 
cloth spread over the abdomen or poured directly on the skin 
and over this spread the flannel and gradually heat with a hot 
iron until the oil has penetrated, and repeat every one or two 
hours, is one excellent way to give oil. 

Enuresis — Too free action of the kidneys has troubled 
many grown people as well as children. Belladonna, gtts. 5 to 
20, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every two or three hours. 

An advertisement of ''bed whetting" uses the following 
for children. Rhus aromatica, grs. 5 ; santonin, gr. 1-4 ; atro- 
pine, gr. 1-120. One powder at bed time. One of the most suc- 
cessful ways is a good, quiet lecture in a low voice after it has 
gone to bed and asleep and in fact any habit can be effectively 
overcome in this w^ay if there is perseverance and determina- 
tion to succeed. It takes quite a while in the first effort to 
make any impression. A few trials will begin to show results 
by the third night. A blinking of the eyelids will first be no- 
ticed, and show^s that an impression is being made. The voice 
must be in a low tone, because to make the most lasting im- 
pressions it must be made during sleep. Talk to the child and 
ask if it loves mamma. Stay with that until the child nods its 
head; the next question, Johnnie, you love papa? or any other 
name will do, but the question should be asked in a low tone 
and a little slow and continue until the child nods to the ques- 
tion. Then if there is some habit to overcome tell Johnnie that 
he is a good boy or better ask if he is a good boy, and continue 
until answered. It may be that he will look with a stare and 
speak. Be careful about waking him, because the impressions 



262 THEREFLECTOR 

that are to be made are given in sleep to take effect while 
awake. After a child is once brought under such influence,, 
any instructions can be given with almost assurance that it will 
be effective. 

Gastralgia — Dioscorea, gtts. 20 to 30 in warm water every 
firteen minutes will give relief. Chloroform, gtts 10 to 20 in a 
little water frequently relieves the trouble. 

Grastritis — The acute form will be benefited by aconite, 
gtts. 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour. Mucilaginous 
drinks and only very light diet. If the inflammation has been 
caused by poisons, nothing more than a little fresh sweet milk 
should be allowed. Subnitrate of bismuth, grs. 5 every two or 
three hours, or liquor bismuth and colorless hydrastis, gtts. 10 
to 20 every one or two hours, will act nicely in either acute 
or chronic cases. A chronic condition may be benefited by the 
use of Pulsatilla, gtts. 2 to 5 every three hours. Equal parts 
of powdered hydrastis and subnitrate of bismuth in doses of 3 
to 6 grains every three hours. 

Goiter — Paint with iodine once or twice a day and take 
potassium iodide, grs. 2 to 15, well diluted with water, two or 
three times a day. 

Gonorrhoea — First stage, gelsemium, gtts 5 to 10, aconite, 
gtt. 1, 3 or 4 times a day. Cannabis stava, gtts. 5 every 
four hours where the discharge is thin. Permanginate of pot- 
ash, grs 5 to 1 oz. of distilled water and used as an injection 
night and morning. 

Spirits of nitre dulc. 4 ozs. ; oil of sandalwood and balsam 
copaiba, of each 1 oz. ; tincture of cubebs, 2 ozs. Mix. Dose. A 
teaspoonful three times a day. 

Hemorrhage — In most all hemorrhages, except in ulcerat- 
tions, there is increased action of the heart with an obstruction 
in the circulation of the capillaries. If the blood current can 
be freed from this obstruction, the circulation will become 
equalized and the hemorrhage ceases. 

If the blood is dark, it indicates passive hemorrhage from 
the veins and witchhazel, gtts. 5 to 6 every hour will act well in 
checking it. Where there is bleeding from stomach or bowels, 
tannic or gallic acid in five grain doses every hour will gener- 
ally give good results. Uterine hemorrhage may be successful- 



THEREFLECTOR 263 

ly cheeked with equal parts of the oils of erigeron and cinna- 
mon in doses of 6 to 10 drops every hour on sugar. Ergot, gtts. 
10 to 20 every half to one hour will do Avell in many cases. 

Hemorrhoids — Piles — Equal parts of flour of sulphur and 
tartaric acid and sugar. Dose: Teaspoonful each day before 
breakfast. Where there is a constricted condition, collinsonia, 
gtts. 10 to 15 two or three times a day. Where there is much 
pain, aesculus glabra, gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every three or four hours. An ointment made by stewing jim- 
som leaves in lard is an excellent local application. Where 
there is much bleeding, persulphate of iron or tannic acid, grs. 
10, water 1 oz., will check it. Pulverized borax, one part to 
five of vaseline, as an ointment, will have a salutary effect in 
itching piles. A hot sitz bath is a good palliative in blind piles 
highly inflamed. 

Hernia — Relax with chloroform or apply a tabacco poul- 
tice over the hernia. Taking patient by the feet, with legs over 
the shoulders and jolting him up and down, will cause the 
bowel to return to its place if it is not too badly strangulated. 

Hiccough — Nux vomica, gtt. 1 every hour, or black cohosh, 
gtts. 5 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour is generally 
sufficient. A piece of ice to lobe of ear is a success in many 
cases. 

Hysteria — Where there is the sensation of a ball in the 
throat, ignatia amara, gtts. 1 to 10, water 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful 
every hour. Where there is an inclination to weep, pulsutilla, 
gtts. 1 to 3 every two or three hours. 

Insomnia — Sleeplessness — Jamaica dogwood (piscidia ery- 
thrina), gtts. 10 to 15 will generally be effective. May repeat 
dose in three hours. 

Naevus— Mother's Mark — Apply thuja once or twice a 
day. 

Sore Nipples — During the last weeks of pregnancy the 
nipples should be bathed frequently, say once or twice a day, 
with a weak solution of alum or borax water. Where they are 
excoriated, a weak solution of arnica, 20 drops to the ounce of 
water. Where ulcers form and are inclined to bleed a lotion 
of marigold will be effective. Equal parts of the tincture of 
benzoin and glycerine is valuable in the cure of fissures. The 



264 THEREFLECTOR f 

parts should always be washed with warm water before allow- 
ing the child to nurse, and a rubber shield should be used to 
protect the parts until they are entirely healed. 

Sore Throat — Aconite, gtts. 10, belladonna, gts. 10, water 4 
ozs. ; teaspoonful every one or two hours. If tonsils are in- 
volved and glands swollen, substitute phytolacca in place of 
the belladonna, and administer every three hours. 

Otitis — Warm water injected into the ear, or hot fomen- 
tations will generally give relief. For the earache, plantago 
major is about all that will be needed, one drop in ear and «■ 
small piece of cotton inserted will generally be sufficient. 
May dilute with a little water if necessary. 

Where the ear runs, bichromate of potassium (triturated 
1 to 10), gr. 1 every four hours. A weak solution may be used 
locally according to the intensity of the action. Rhus tox., 
gtt. 1, every two or three hours, and colorless hydrastis, one 
part to four of warm water and ear syringed out once or 
twice a day, will act well in some cases, or the ear may be in- 
jected with warm water containing 5 or 6 grains of boric acid 
to the ounce. 

Phlegmasia Alba Dolens — Milk Leg — Aconite, gtts., 10; 
Pulsatilla, gtts. 10 to 20 ; water, 4 ozs. ; teaspoonful every hour 
for four or six hours, then change to every tAvo or three hours. 
After second day, hamamelis, gtts. 5 to 10 every two to three 
hours. The leg should be steamed with good apple vinegar 
two or three times a day. 

Prickley Heat — Locally, sponge with soda water, sugar of 
lead or sulphate of copper, grs 2 to 10, water 1 oz., or may dust 
the parts with oxide of zinc. 

Psoriasis — Arsenic, one drop three or four times a day. 
Lappa major (burdock), teaspoonful three times a day. The 
treatment must be continued for some time to be effective. 

Scabies — ^Itch — ^Borax mixed with olive oil and applied is 
an effective remedy. Balsam of Peru one dram applied and 
well rubbed in, after first taking a warm bath, kills the 
acarus generally at one application. 

Varicocele — Hammelis, gtts. 5 every two hours. 

Warts — Thuja, gtt. 1 three times a day, and apply locally 
three or four times during the day. To touch them with nitric 



THBREFLECTOR 265 

acid and soak them in warm water in a few days will gener- 
ally destroy the growth. 

READY REFERENCE RECIPES. 

Liniments — Rhumatic fluid: Oils of hemlock and cedar, 
of each I/2 oz. ; oils of origanum and sassafras, each 1 oz. ; 
spirits of turpentine and gum camphor, each V^ oz. ; put all 
into a quart bottle and fill with good alcohol. Apply to parts 
with brisk friction. May be used internally for colic. Dose 
for man, half a teaspoonful; for a horse V2 to 1 oz. in a little 
warm water every fifteen minutes till relieved. 

Hot Liniment — Tincture of capsicum, 16 ozs. ; oils of cedar, 
hemlock, sassafras and origanum, of each 2 ozs. ; pulverized 
carbonate of ammonia, 1 oz. Mix. Locally : Apply to the 
gums and nerve of tooth ; and to face, in neuralgic pains, by 
wetting a piece of brown paper and applying to the affected 
part. Cotton should be used in applying to tooth or gums. Too 
long use will blister. 

Pain Killer — Capsicum and ether, of each I/4 oz. ; turpen- 
tine, spirits of ammonia, of each V2 oz. ; oils of sassafras, hem- 
lock and cajaput, of each I/2 oz. ; oil origanum, 1 oz. ; oil of 
cloves, 1-4 oz. ; gum camphor, 1-2 oz. ; alcohol, 8 ozs. Mix. May 
use locally. For internal use. Dose, 20 to 30 drops. 

Sunshine — Oils of sassafras and origanum, of each 1 oz. , 
balsam of fir, 1 oz. ; spirits of turpentine, 3 ozs. ; put in half 
gallon best acohol and let stand 12 hours, with occasional agi- 
tation; then to another half gallon of alcohol add one ounce 
each of tinctures catecue, guiac, capsicum and camphor, 2 
ozs. After 12 hours pour the two parts together and then add 
sulph. ether 1 oz. ; aqua ammonia, 2 ozs. ; chloroform, 4 ozs. 
Shake well and its ready for use. Dose, 15 to 20 drops, re- 
peated every thirty minutes until relief. Apply locally. 

Inflamed Joints — Oils of cloves and turpentine, of each 1 
oz. ; laudanum, li/o ozs. ; salicylic acid, 3 drs. ; alcohol, 12 ozs. 
Mix. Apply to affected part every two hours. 

Quick Cure— To alcohol 1/2 gal., best, add 1 oz. each of oils 
hemlock, sassafras, spirits of turpentine, tincture of capsicum, 
catechu, guaic and laudanum ; tincture of myrrh, 4 ozs. ; oil 
of origanum, 2 ozs. ; oil of wintergreen, l^ oz. ; gum camphor, 2 



266 THEREFLECTOR 

ozs. ; chloroform, l^/^ ozs. Dose, 10 to 20 drops, repeated every 
half hour till relief. May use locally. None better. 

Stiff Joints — Neatsf oot oil, 1 pt. ; strong spirits of cam- 
phor, 1 pt. ; spirits of turpentine, i^ pt. Shake well before 
using. 

A Corker — Equal parts of stronger aqua ammonia, tincture 
of iodine and flexible collodion. Considerable gas arises from 
its mixing, and it might blow out the cork. Will be ready for 
use in 12 to 24 hours. Use as other preparations of the kind, 
but should be kept away from fire. 

Antiseptic No. 1 — Raw linseed oil three parts and turpen- 
tine one part. If the turpentine is too great in quantity or 
either ingredient is of an inferior article, a white sediment will 
settle in the bottom. 

Antiseptic No. 2 — Turpentine three or four parts, cooked 
linseed oil one part. 

Articles of this kind are sold on the market at fabulous 
prices. Just enough cooked linseed oil to color the turpentine 
is • sufficient, and can be used for as many purposes as any 
preparation of the kind extant. 

'• Penetrating — Equal parts of strong apple vinegar and tur- 
pentine, of each 8 ozs. ; the white of one or two eggs. 

Bed Bug Poison — Corrosive sublimate, 2 drs. ; turpentine, 
4 ozs. Apph^ wherever the bugs are located. 

Ointments — Beeswax and fresh butter, of each 4 ozs. ; 
white or Venice turpentine, % lb. ; olive oil, 2% lbs. ; melt all 
together over a slow fire, and when nearly to the boiling point 
stir in slowly red lead 1 lb. When brown, remove from the 
fire and when milk or lukewarm add, ready mixed, strained 
honey, 12 ozs., and pulverized gum camphor, i/^ lb. For burns, 
cuts, bruises and any kind of sore, none better. 

For Piles — Acetate of lead, pulverized camphor gum and 
powdered opium, of each 1 dr. ; pulverized nut gall, 2 drs. ; ox- 
ide of zinc, 1 oz. ; simple cerate sufficient to make 2 ozs. Apply 
locally at night. 

For Ringworm — Pyrogallic acid, grs. 15; white vaseline, 
1 oz. Apply locally once or twice a day. Collodion may be 
used instead of the vaseline ounce for ounce. 



TIIEREFLECTOR 267 

For Eczema — Glycerine, 12 ozs. ; kaolin, 1 lb. ; boracic 
iicid, 1 oz. ; thymol, and menthol, of each, grs. 10 ; eucalyphtus, 
gtts. 20. Mix. For local use generally. 

For the Eye — Pulverized burnt alum, 1 dr. ; powdered 
opium, gr. 20 ; spermaceti cerate, 3 drs. Apply on inflamed eye- 
lids, or purulent ophthalmia, twice or three times a day. 

Ulcerated Sore Leg — Balsam of fir, 1 oz. ; sulphate of 
iron, 1 oz. A teaspoonful of each calomel and soda. Apply to 
ulcer by spreading on a thin piece of cloth sufficient to cover 
the sore. Its action is very painful, but its purpose is to kill 
all abnormal growth, and after that is done, which will occur 
after the second application, then use the ointment, first given 
above, and if continued treatment is followed faithfully, a cure 
is almost certain. 

Catarrh — Benzoated lard, 2 drs. ; yellow wax, 1 dr. Melt 
the wax and add the lard. When nearly cool, add menthol, 
grs. 3 ; oil of wintergreen, gtts. 60. This should be thoroughly 
mixed and kept in a colored bottle. Apply once or twice a 
day. 

For Worms — Lard, 8 parts; aloes and the oil of tansy, of 
each one part; dried beef's gall, 2 parts. The aloes and beef 
gall should be reduced to a fine powder and mixed. Apply as 
any other ointment, once or twice a day. 

Bust Developer — Extract saw palmetto, cocoa butter, lano- 
lin, of each 2 ozs. ; oil of cajuput, 1 oz. ; oil of sassafras, % oz. 
Should be applied and well and thoroughly worked and manip- 
ulated with liands and fingers once -a day or twice a week. 
Deep breathing and thorough massage will produce excellent 
results in a few months. 

Dentifrices — Tooth Wash — Carbonate of lime, 59 parts; 
soap, castile, 44 parts ; oil of wintergreen, sufficient to flavor. 

Tooth Powder — Oris root, pulverized, 1/2 oz. ; prepared 
chalk, finely powdered, % oz- ; Dutch pink, grs. 2 to 5. Mix 
thoroughly together and keep in an air-tight box. 

To Make Black Teeth Look White — Pure muriatic acid, 1 
oz. ; honey, 2 ozs. Mix throughly. Apply rapidly with a good 
tooth brush and wash out the mouth with water. 

Best tooth cleaner extant. 



268 THERE F^L ECTOR 

For Toothache — Carbolic acid, menthol, cocain, of each 
grs. 5. Mix and apply to cavity of tooth with a little cotton.. 
Excellent for earache. Dissolve a little in warm water and 
drop in the ear. 

Hair Lotion — One part of gum camphor to two parts of 
borax, pulverized, to one part of boiling rain water. May use 
as often as desired. 

To Prevent the Hair From Fallnig Out — Neatsfoot oil and 
turpentine, of each 1 oz. ; cantharides, active solution, gtts. 30 ; 
oil of wintergreen, gtts. 20. Mix. Apply twice or three times 
a week. 

Poultices — The curative action depends principally upon 
the liquids with which they are moistened and the heat retain- 
ed by the mass. With this object they should never be heavy 
or very bulky, and frequently repeated. The addition of a little 
lard, olive oil or glycerine to a poultice tends greatly to pro- 
mote its emollient action and retard its hardening. Any poul- 
tice or the application of heat in any form should be regular 
and continuous as long as used. 

Anodyne — To relieve pain in the bowels, where the ordi- 
nary heat fails, a poultice of poppy heads, 1 oz. ; water, 24 ozs. 
Boil, strain and add to the fluids wheat bran or corn meal to 
make a poultice. 

Antiseptic — Pulverized Peruvian bark, 1 oz. ; barley flour, 
6 ozs. ; water, 1 qt. Boil and when cool enough add pulverized 
camphor gum, 1 dr. 

Tupentine — Olive oil and linseed meal, of each, 1 oz. ; tur- 
pentine, 2 ozs. ; oatmeal, 4 ozs. ; boiling water sufficient. A 
good poultice for almost any purpose. 

A slippery elm poultice can be used in like manner and 
where there is considerable soreness, a little arnica can be 
added. 

Pokeroot — A poultice of this kind is excellent in glandular 
troubles of throat or breast. 

Nostrums — Since the market has been flooded with nos- 
trums of various kinds it is thought expedient to give a short 
description with the ingredients entering into their composi- 
tion. Nostrum venders have many ways of getting their favor- 
ite product introduced to the general public. A very unique 
way is by samples sent broadcast through the mails or through 



THE REFLECTOR Z69' 

some advertising medium, such as newspapers or by cricular 
letters and the agent, with premiums attached. The amount 
of money expended in advertisng so-called patent medicines- 
will reach into the millions every year, and the methods of 
advertisers have created quite a rivalry, and we very frequently- 
see one concern attack another through printers ink. It i* 
amusing to see a patent medicine vender with his tin horn show 
or his "coon wid de banjo," arrive in town, stretch his tent 
and call a crowd to see him display some wonderful discovery 
that has restored to health Captain Grasshopper or Colonel 
Longreen or the old lady Longtongue, after one or all had 
gone the rounds of the medical profession, without being bene- 
fited. Not unlikely the aforesaid bulk of wisdom will trot,, 
with great speed, up and down the broadway of human anat- 
omy ; pace around the circle of physiology and gyrate through^ 
the meanderihgs of medical jurisprudence in such a magnifi- 
cent manner as to attract the most wonderful attention. Doubt- 
less there will be some present to hear a display of professional 
oratorical gas who had not paid his doctor bill for many 
months. The vender expects cash and does not run a credit 
business, but the doctor of a local practice is expected, by some, 
to thrive and do good service on' gas and hot-air. A great many 
firms are in earnest about their business and the users of their 
so-called scientific product are very cautiously w^arned to re- 
fuse all substitutes. 

By way of comparison, as to the cost of some of the pro- 
prietary remedies, the following for cough is selected : Tinc- 
ture white pine, 8 ozs., 14 cents; chloroform, 14 oz., 2 cents; 
ipecac, 2 ozs., 38 cents; sugar, 56 ozs., 25 cents; carbonate of 
magnesia, 2 ozs., 3 cents; tincture of gelseraium, 1 oz., 2 cents;; 
water, 28 ozs. ; total cost, 84 cents. This makes five pints, andl 
bottles cost 50 cents, making a total cost of $1.44. The bottles; 
are made to hold 21/4 ozs. and cost about 46 cents a dozen and 
sold at about $1.90 per dozen bottles. Most all $1.00 bottlesr 
cost at the rate of $1.50 per eight bottles. This is rated as the 
cost to the manufacturer. The retail druggist is generally re- 
quired to pay about $7.50 per dozen bottles. 

A liniment for all purposes and sold at the same prices as- 
to cost to the manufacturer is made with soap liniment, 5 pts. ; 
aqua ammonia, 2 pts. ; tincture of opium, 1 pt. 



270 THEREFLECTOR 

A nerve sedative is prepared for rest and to quiet restless- 
ness as follows : Bromide of potassium, 1 oz. ; chloral hydrate, 
1 oz, ; cannabis indica and hyoseyamus, of each, gtts. 4; aro- 
matic enough to color. Generally prescribed in teaspoonful 
doses every three or four hours. 

A celebrated kidney cure is prepared as follows : Holland 
gin, best, 8 ozs. ; acetate of potash, 4 ozs. ; fl. ext. of stone root 
and praeira brava, of each 4 ozs. ; fl. ext. of buchu, 8 ozs. ; sim- 
ple elixir, sufficient to make one gallon. May be taken in tea- 
spoonful doses three or four times a day. 

A blood purifier : Alcohol, 2 pts. ; f 1. ext. of yellow dock, 
stillingia and sassaparilla, of each 8 ozs. ; fl. ext. of podophyl- 
lum, dr. 1 ; simple elixir, 2 pts. ; iodide of potassium, 1 oz. Mix. 
Dose : Teaspoonful three times a day. 

Headache tablets are prepared with but little variation as 
to proportion and the similarity of the drugs used, but few will 
be given to show this : Acetanalid, grs. 2^/2 ; bicarbonate of 
soda, grs. 1% ; carbonate of ammonia, gr. 1. For one dose. 

Acetanalid, 2 parts; bromide of ammonia and salicylic 
acid, of each one part. Dose. grs. 5 to 15. 

Acetanalid, 75 parts; bicarbonate of sodium, 171/2 parts; 
tartaric acid, 71/^ parts. Dose : grs. 5 to 15. 

It will be seen that the base of all such tablees is acetana- 
lid, with a modification, by the manufacturer, to agree with 
his peculiar notion. 

The following proprietary medicines have been given by 
chemical analysis and will approximate the original secret for- 
mula. This is given for the benefit of those using same and the 
formulae have been gleaned from medical journals, newspa- 
pers and books. The name of the preparation is given and dis- 
claim any knowledge of any infringement. 

Actina — Menthol crystals, 1 dr. ; alcohol, I/2 dr. ; sulpuric 
ether, 1 dr. ; oil of mustard, 2 drs. ; sponge sufficient to make 
1 oz. 

Allen's Lung Balm — Tincture sanguinaria and lobelia, of 
each 8 ozs. ; tincture of opium, 4 ozs. ; tincture of capsicum, II/2 
ozs. ; essence of sassafras and anise, of each 1 oz. ; New Orleans 
molasses, V2 gal. Bring the molasses slowly to a boil and add 
cautiously the other ingredients. 



THEREFLECTOR 271 

Arabian Balsam — Oleum gossypium, 15 ozs. ; oleum ori- 
gani. 1 uz. ; oleum terebinth, 4 drs. Mix. 

Aseptin — Borax, 2 parts ; alum, 1 part. Mix. 

Athlophoros — ^Acetate of potash, 1 dr. ; salicylate of soda 
grs. -190; sugar, 4 ozs.; caramel, gtts. 3.; water, 14 ozs. 

Atkinson's Infant Preservative — Carbonate of magnesia, 6 
drs. ; white sugar, 2V2 ozs. ; oil of anise, gtts. 30 ; compound 
spirits of ammonia, 2V2 drs. ; rectified spirits, 2I/2 drs. ; tincture 
of opium and syrup of saffron, of each 1 oz. ; caraway water 
sufficient to make one pint. 

Ayer's Cherry Pectoral — Wine of antimony and wine of 
ipecac, of each 3 drs. ; tincture of blood root, 2 drs. ; acetate of 
morphia, gr. 3; syrup of wild cherry, 3 ozs. 

Ayer's Sarsaparilla — Fl. ext. of sarsaparilla and stillingia, 
of each 3 ozs. ; fl. ext. of yellow dock and may apple, of each 2 
ozs. ; sugar, 1 oz. ; iodide of potassium, grs. 90 ; iodide of iron, 
grs. 10. Mix. 

Bareel's Indian Liniment — Tincture of capsicum, 1 dr.; oil 
of origanum, sassafras, pennyroyal and hemlock, of each V2' 
oz. ; alcohol, 1 qt. 

Baker's Bone and Nerve Liniment — Camphor, gr. 70; oil 
of tar, 1/2 dr. ; oil of thyme, 1 dr. ; oil of turpentine, 2 drs. ; 
lubricating sufficient to make 2 ozs. 

Bateman's Pectoral Drops — Tincture of opium, II/2 ozs.;: 
tincture of opium benzonated, 20 ozs. ; tincture of Canada castor,. 
5 ozs. ; ground cochineal, 1 oz. Mix. Adult dose : 20 to 30 drops 
morning and evening. Not to be given to children under 10' 
years old. 

Brown's Male Fern Vermifuge — Fl. exl. of male fern, 3 
ozs. ; oil of wintergreen, gtt. 1 ; simple syrup, 5 ozs. 

Bromo^chloralum — Alum, coarse powder, 1 lb. ; boiling 
water, 2 pts. ; aqua ammonia and muriatic acid sufficient ; bro- 
mine, 1/2 OZ. ; water enough to make i/^ gal. 

Bams' Frost Balsam — Copaiba and turpentine, of each l^ 
ounce. 

Brown's Bronchial Troches — Powdered extract of licorice, 
1 lb. ; powdered cubebs, II/2 lbs. ; powdered gum arabie, 1-4 lb. ; 
sugar, 11/4 lbs: ; extract of conium, 1 oz. Mix. 

Brown's Iron Bitters — Iron, 1 gr. ; calisaya bark, 2 grs.; 



,272 THEREFLECTOR 

phosphorous, 1-200 gr. ; cocoa, 1 gr. ; viburnum prunifolium, 
1 gr. 

Rhodie's Asthama Liniment — Oil of stillingia, 4 drs ; oil of 
cajaput, 2 drs. ; oil of lobelia, 1 dr. ; alcohol, 1 oz. Mix. Bathe 
«hest and throat three times a day. 

Bucklen's Arnica Salve — Extract of arnica, 1 oz. ; rosin 
cerate, 8 ozs. ; vaseline, 2 ozs. ; seedless raisins, 8 ozs. ; fine cut 
tobacco, 1/2 oz. ; water sufficient. Boil raisins and tobacco in 
'One pint of water until the strength is extracted ; press out the 
liquid and simmer to 4 ozs. Soften the extract of arnica with a 
little hot water and mix the liquid with it ; add this to the rosin 
.cerate and vaseline previously warmed and mix thoroughly. 

Bull's Blood Syrup — Iodide of potash, 12 drs.; red iodide 
•of mercury, 2 grs. ; tincture of poke root, 3 drs. ; compound 
syrup of stillingia, 6 ozs. ; simple syrup to make one pint. 

California Liniment — Tincture of myrrh and capsicum, of 
each, 1 oz. ; sweet spirits nitre and sulphuric ether, of each 1 
oz. ; chloroform, i/^ oz. ; tincture of arnica, 1 oz. ; oil of spear- 
mint and wintergreen, of each 2 drs. ; oil of lobelia, 1 dr. ; aqua 
ammonia, i/'2 oz. ; alcohol, 1 qt. 

Carter's Little Liver Pills — Podophyllin, IVo grs. ; aloes, 
•31/2 grs. ; mucilage of acacaia sufficient. Mix ; divide into 12 
pills and sugarcoat . 

Castoria — Senna, 4 drs. ; manna and roehelle salts, of each 
1 oz. ; bruised fennel, IV2 drs. ; boiling water and sugar, of each 
S ozs. Pour the water on the ingredients, cover and let remain 
until cool ; strain and add the sugar and shake till dissolved and 
then add a few drops of the oil of wintergreen to flavor. 

Cazeaux's Nipple Ointment — White wax, 4I/2 ozs.; oil of 
sweet almonds and clarified honey, of each V2 oz. ; balsam 
Peru, 21/2 drs. Mix. 

Chamberlain's Relief — Tincture of capsicum about 1 oz, ; 
spirits of camphor, about 3-4 oz. ; tincture of guaiac, 1-4 oz. ; 
colored tincture to make 2 ozs. 

Centaur Liniment — "For Man" — Oil pennyroyal, % oz. ; 
oil thyme, oil turpentine, of each 1-4 oz. ; soap, 130 grs. ; caustic 
soda, 10 grs. ; water to make 1 pt. Mix. 

"For Beast" — Oil spearmint, 1 dr.; oil mustard, 15 min. : 
oil turpentine, 1-4 oz. ; oil amber (crude) ; black oil, of each Vi 



THEREFLECTOR 273 

)z. ; soap, 130 grs. ; caustic soda, 10 grs. ; water to make one pt. 
Mix. (New idea.) 

Chamberlain's Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy — 
Tincture capsicum, 20 drs. ; tincture camphor, 16 drs. ; tincture 
guaicum, 12 drs. Mix. (Medical World.) 

Child's Cough Mixture — Syrup squills, 2 drs.; wine ipecac 
and tincture camphor compound, of each 1 dr. ; simple syrup, 
4 drs. ; water, 3 ozs. Mix. 

Cleay's Asthma Powder — Pulverized stramonium and bel- 
ladonna, of each 30 parts ; pulverized saltpetre, 5 parts ; pulver- 
ized opium, 2 parts. Mix. A little to be burned and fumes in- 
haled. (Chemist and Druggist.) 

Coe's Dyspepsia Cure — Powdered rhubarb, 2 drs.; fluid 
ext. of gentian, 3 drs. ; peppermint water 7i/^ ozs. ; bicarbonate 
of soda, 6 drs. Mix. Dose : A teaspoonful half hour before 
meals. (The Drug Mill.) 

Combe's Asperient — Sulphate of Magnes, 35 parts; roasted 
coffee, 40 parts ; boiling water, 500 parts. Mix. Boil two min- 
utes and sweeten to taste with white sugar. Dose : Wineglass 
full in the morning. 

Cook's Electro-Magnetic Liniment — Alcohol, 1 gal; oil 
amber and gum camphor, of each 8 ozs.; castile soap (fine), 2 
ozs.; beef's gall, 4 ozs.; aqua ammonia, 12 ozs. Mix. 

Cobb's Pills — Extract of hoyoscyamus and extract of co- 
nium, of each Yo dr. ; extract of colocynth, 11 gr. ; extract of 
nux vomica, 4 grs. Mix. Divide into 30 pills. 

Cram's Fluid Lightning — Oils of mustard, cajeput, cloves 
and sassafras, of each 2 drs. ; ether. 1 oz. ; tincture of opium, 
iy2 ozs. ; alcohol, 20 ozs. Mix and filter. 

Cuticura Ointment — Its base is petroleum jelly, colored 
green, perfumed with oil of bergamont and containing two per 
cent of carbolic acid. (Northwestern Lancet.) 

Cuticura Resolvent — Aloes socotrine and powdered rhu- 
barb, of each 1 dr. ; iodide of potassium, 36 grs. ; whiskey, 1 pt. 
Macerate over night and filter. (St. Louis Druggist.) 

Dellenbaugh's Cough Cure — Picrate of ammonia, 2 grs.; 
chloride of ammonia and extract of licorice, of each 1 dr. ; 
water 3 ozs. 

Derby's Liniment — Linseed oil, 1 gal.; aqua ammonia, 4 
ozs. ; tincture capsicum, oil origanmum. of each 1 oz. Mix. 



274 THEREFLECTOR 

Deshler's Salve — Rosin and suet, of each 12 ozs. ; yellow 
wax, 12 ozs. ; turpentine, 6 ozs. ; linseed oil, 7 ozs. 

Dow's White Liquid Physic — Sodium sulphate, 8 ozs.; dis- 
solve in water, 21 ozs. ; then add nitro-muriatic acid, 2 ozs. ; pul- 
verized alum, 68 grs. Mix. Dose : A tablespoonful in water. It 
is a cooling purgative. 

Eclectic Stillingia Liniment for Croup — Stillingia,, 8 drs. ; 
oil cajeput, 1 drs. ; oil lobelia, 2 drs. ; alcohol, 16 ozs. Mix. Ap- 
ply locally and is sometimes given in one drop doses. 

Egyptian Eye Salve — White rosin, 6 drs ; burgundy pitch, 
beeswax, mutton tallow, Venice turpentine, balsam of fir, of 
each, 30 grs. Mix. Spread on thin leather or cloth and apply 
to affected part. 

Fellow's Hypophosphites — Glucose, 1 lb. ; simple syrup, 1 
pt. ; hypophosphite ealsium, 128 grs. ; hypophosphite potassium 
and sulphate iron, of each 48 grs. ; sulphate magnesia, 32 grs. ; 
sulphate quinine, 14 grs. ; sulphate strychnine, 2 grs. ; water 
sufficient, 2 pts. (Theraputic Gazette.) 

Freeman's Vermifuge Oil — Oil of worm seed and pink root, 
of each Vo oz. ; oil of turpentine, 2 drs. ; castor oil, 1^/2 ozs. ; hy- 
drastin, 10 grs. ; syrup of peppermint, l^ oz. Dose for child 10 
years old, a teaspoonful three times a day, one hour after each 
meal. If it purges too freely, give less often. 

Gadberry's Mixture — Liquor tersulphate iron, 3 drs. ; 
liquor arseniate potash, 90 min. ; saltpetre and sulph. quinine, 
of each 2 drs.; water to make 2 ozs. (Bulletin of Pharmacy.) 

Gargling Oil — Crude petroleum, 13 ozs. ; aqua ammonia, 6 
ozs. ; soft soap and benzine, of each 16 ozs. ; crude oil amber, 2 
ozs. ; tincture iodine, 1 oz. ; water, 5 pts. 

Mix the petroleum and soap, add the ammonia, oil of am- 
ber and tincture of iodine and mix thoroughly. Then add the 
benzine and finally the water. 

Golden Eye Water — Sulphate of hydrastia, 2 grs. ; water, 
1 oz. 

White Oil Liniment — Carbonate ammonia, 19 parts; cam- 
phor, 20 parts ; oil turpentine, 21 parts ; oil origanum, 20 parts ; 
castile soap, 19 parts ; water make by weight, 300 parts. 

Good Samaritan Liniment — Oils of sassafras and hemlock, 
spirits turpentine, tincture of capsicum, tincture of opium, of 
each 1 oz. ; tincture of myrrh and the oil of wintergreen, of each 



THEREFLECTOR 275 

4 ozs. ; oil of origanum and gum camphor, of each 2 ozs. ; chloro- 
form, 11/2 ozs. ; alcohol, 2 quarts. 

Hall's Catarrh Cure — Gentian root, 1 1-4 ozs. ; bitter orange 
peel, 5 drs. ; cardamon seeds, 100 grs. ; potassium iodide, 1 oz. ; 
dilute alcohol sufficient. Macerate the crude drugs in 12 ozs. 
of the alcohol for 48 hours, then percolate by adding enough 
alcohol to make 16 ozs., and then add the iodide of potassium. 
(New Idea.) 

Hamlin Wizard Oil^ Alcohol, 1 pt. ; gum camphor, 1 oz. ; 
oil of sassafras , tincture of myrrh, tincture of capsicum and 
chloroform, of each V2 oz. (Douglas in Medical World.) 

Hanson's Magic Corn Cure — Simple cerate, 1 oz. ; salicylic 
acid, 1 dr. Mix thoroughly. (Indiana Pharmacist.) 

Hostetter's Bitters — Sugar, calamus root, orange peel, Pe- 
ruvain bark, gentian root, columbo root, of each 2 lbs. ; rhu- 
barb, 8 ozs. ; cinnamon, 4 ozs. ; cloves, 2 ozs. ; alcohol, 4 gal. 
Mix. (The Medical Bulletin.) 

King's New Discovery — Sulph. morphia, 8 grs.; fl. ext. 
ipecac, i^ dr. ; chloroform, 60 min. ; tincture white pine, 2 ozs. ; 
water, 7 ozs. ; carbonate of magnesia, 1-4 oz. ; sugar, 14 ozs. Hub 
the magnesia with one ounce of the sugar in a mortar, and tri- 
turate with the tincture of white pine and the ipecac ; gradually 
add the water and triturate with the mixture in the mortar. 
Filter and dissolve the morphia in the filterate. Mix the chloro- 
form with the rest of the sugar in a bottle, then add all to- 
gether. Keep in a tight vessel. (New Idea.) 

Mexican Mustang Liniment — Oils of turpentine, thyme, 
amber (crude), of each I/2 dr.; black oil, 1 dr. ; coal oil, 3 drs.; 
water, 3 ozs. or 2 drs. ; soap, 35 grs. ; caustic potash, 3 grs. Mix. 
(New Idea.) 

Oil of Joy — Oils of sassafras, cedar and tincture of guaic, 
of each 1 oz. ; gum camphor, I/2 oz. ; tincture of capsicum, 2 ozs. ; 
alcohol and aqua ammonia, of each 4 ozs. ; chloroform, 3 ozs. 

Oil of Gladness — Oils of marjoram, peppermint, horsemint 
and the tincture of opium and red sanders, of each 1 dr. ; ether, 
2 drs. ; tincture capsicum, 4 drs. ; alcohol sufficient to make 8 
ozs. Mix, (Druggist Circular.) 

Phenol Sodique — Carbolic acid, 188 grs. : caustic soda, 31 
grs. ; distilled water, 4 ozs. 



276 THEREFLECTOR 

Pierce's Favorite Prescription — Saviu and ciuchona, of 
each 150 grs. ; agaric and cinnamon, of each 75 grs. ; water suf- 
ficient to make a decoction of 8 ozs. To this add : Acacia, 150' 
grs. ; sugar, 75 grs. ; tincture of digitalis and opium, of each ^ 
dr. ; oil of anise, 8 min. Dissolve the gum and sugar in the 
strained decoction, then add alcohol, 2 ozs., in which the oil 
has previously been dissolevd. (Hager.) 

Pierce's G-olden Medical Discoevry — Fl. ext. cinchona, 16 
ozs. ; fl. ext. of columbo, 4 ozs. ; fl. ext. of guaiacum, 8 ozs. ; fl. 
ext. of licorice, 4 ozs.; tr. opium, 1 oz. ; podophyllin (resinoid)^ 
120 grs. ; glycerine, 6 pts. ; alcohol, sufficient. Dissolve the 
podophyllin in the alcohol and add the rest of the ingredients. 
Mix. Dose: A teaspoonful. (The Drug Mill.) 

Piso's Cure for Consumption — Tincture tolu, i/^ oz. ; fl. ext. 
of lobelia and cannabis indica, of each 2 drs. ; chloroform, 1 dr. ; 
sulph. morphia and tartar emetic, of each 4 grs. ; ess. mentha 
viridis, 10 min. ; water, 8 ozs. ; sugar, 14 ozs. Mix the fluid ex- 
tracts, tincture tolu, chloroform, essence of spearmint and shake 
with the sugar in the bottle. Dissolve with the morphine and 
tartar emetic in hot water, then add the water to the sugar in 
the bottle. Dose: One teaspoonful. (New Idea.) 

Price's Pile Ointment — English calomel, 1 oz. ; powdered 
opium, Yo oz. ; pure carbonate of lead, 1 lb. ; oxide of zinc, 1 lb. ; 
olive oil, 2 lbs.; fresh lard (without salt), 2 lbs. Mix thor- 
oughly in wedgewood mortar. This has been sold very exten- 
sively at $1 for two ounces. 

Sage's Catarrh Remedy — Powdered hydrastis canadensis, 
1 oz. ; powdered borax, 10 grs. ; salt, 10 grs. ; ferro-cyauuret of 
iron sufficient to color. This has been sold for $5.00. (Dr. 
Hewitt in Medical World.) 

St. Jacob's Oil — Gum camphor, chloral hydrate, chloro- 
form, sulph. ether, of each, 1 oz. ; tincture of opium, oil origa- 
num; oil sassafras, of each V2 oz. ; alcohol, l/^ gal. Mix. (Medi- 
cal World.) 

Simmon's Liver Regrdator — Hepatica, leptandra, serpenta- 
ria, of each 1 oz. ; senna, 1% ozs. Mix. Put the ingredients 
into 2% pints of boiling water. Let stand 19 hours, then 
strain. Add 1/2 pint of good whisky. (New Remedies.) 

S3nrup of Figs — Senna leaves, 14 ozs. ; coriander seed, 6 
ozs. ; figs, 24 ozs. ; tamarind, 18 ozs. ; cassia pulp, 18 ozs. ; prunes,. 



THEREFLECTOR 277 

ext. licorice, li/^ ozs. ; essence peppermint, iy2 ozs.; syr. simp. 
1 gallon. 

The f omnia omits directions ; but probably a water extract 
should be made of the drugs, so as to measure about 4 pints, and 
in this dissolve 8 pounds of sugar to make syrup. (Druggist 
Circular.) 

Syrup of Stillingia Compoimd— Fl. ext. stillingia, fl. ext. 
corydalis, of each 1 oz. ; fl. ext. blue flag, fl. ext. elder flowers, 
fl. ext. prince's pine, of each 1/2 oz. ; fl. ext. prickly ash berries' 
fl. ext. coriander, of each 1-4 oz. ; sugar, 14 ozs. ; water suffi- 
cient. Mix the fluid extracts and add water to make 6 1/2 fluid 
ounces. In this dissolve the sugar, using as little heat as pos- 
sible, and add water to make one pint. 

Thompson's Eye Water— Zinc, sulphate, 20 grs.; copper, 
sulphate, 5 grs. ; tincture saffron, 2 drs. ; tincture camphor, 1 
dr.; rose water, 8 ozs. ; dist. water, 8 ozs. Mix and filter. (New 
Remedies.) 

Tip-Top— Calomel, 60 grs. ; tincture iodine, 1 oz. ; oil sas- 
safras, 1 dr. ; kerosine oil, 3 ozs. Shake well before using. This 
preparation is "tip-top" in some skin diseases and does not be- 
lie its name. With a few drops of carbolic acid added, it ar- 
rests or stops a spider bite, or any other poisonous insect from 
assuming the eresypelatous or gangrenous form that we fre- 
quently see in the course of the practice of medicine. (Dr. 
Sturdivant in Medical Summary.) 

Williams' Pink Pills for Pale People— Sulphate of iron, 240 
grs.; carbonate of potassium, 140 grs.; sugar, 48 grs.; traga- 
canth, 16 grs. ; strychnine, 1 1-4 grs. ; arsenic ll^ grs. ; glycer- 
ine, 10 min. ; water, sufficient. To make mass mix and divide 
into 90 pills and coat with pink sugar. 

Wilson's Lightning Liniment— Oils of cedar, sassafras, the 
tincture of opium, guaiac, and capsicum, of each 3 ozs. ; aqua 
ammonia, spirits of camphor and turpentine, of each 4 ozs.; 
chloroform, 3 ozs.; alcohol, 1 gallon. (Druggist Circular.) 

Winslow's Soothing Sjrrup- Morphia sulph. 1/2 oz.; sodii 
carbon., 1 gr. ; simp, syrup, 11/2 ozs. ; aqua, 1/2 oz. ; spirits foe- 
niculi, 1 dr. Mix. (New Idea.) 

Walcott's Pain Paint— Oil peppermint, 1 or 2 drs.; dried 
mint leaves, finely pulverized, 1 or 2 drs. 



278 THE REFLECTOR 

Moisten the leaves with the oil, enclose in lead wrappers 
(to prevent evaporation), leave enclosed a few days, then dis- 
solve in 4 ounces of alcohol ; add 12 ounces of water ; shake and 
filter. (Dr. Crull in Medical World.) 

Witchhazel Ointment — Tincture of hemamelis, 12 drs. ; 
lanoleum, 6 drs. ; petrolatum, 16 ozs. Mix. Lanoleum is here 
used in place of the copyrighted term lanolin. (Medical Stand- 
ard.) 

Yellow Family Drops — Opium, 2 ozs.; sapo venet, 1 lb.; 
croci opt, 2J/2 ozs. ; sp. rosmarini, 2 lbs. Mix. Digest for a 
week and add oils rosmarini, origani and camphor, of each 2 
ozs. Mix well. For spirits rosmarini, take rosmarini, 3 ozs. ; 
alcohol, sufficient to make 2 lbs. This has been used for over a 
century by the people of Pennsylvania to break up colds and 
is an effective remedy. (Prof. Waugh in Medical World.) 

Many compounds, such as Lydia Pinkham's Compound, 
McLean's Strengthening Cordial, Peruna, Paine 's Celery Com- 
pound, Seven Barks and Warner's Safe Cure have been omit- 
ted, owing to the method of their production and the similarity 
of those already given. 



THEREFLECTOR 279 



INDEX 



Page. 

Preface 3 

Domestic Department 7 

Baking Powder 14-17 

Bed-bugs 36 

Biscuit, Yankee 16 

Biscuit, Confederate 17 

Bluing 84 

Bread and Cakes 14 

Cakes 14 

Candies 20 

Chewing Gum 22 

Comparison of Food Values 8 

Cream 17 

Digestive Time Table 10 

Dietetic Treatment of The Sick 27 

For Puny Children 30 

To Quench Thirst 30 

Furniture Polish 35 

Grapes, To Preserve 26 

Grease Spots, To Remove 34 

Heat Development, Percentage of 8 

Ice Cream 17 

Freezing Compound 19 

Inks S5 

Lost by Cooking 8 

Liquids 9 

Meats 22 

Mince Meats 25 

Oysters 25 

Pastry 11 

Pies 17 

Pickles 36 

Polish 38 

Properties of Food 9 

Soaps - 31 

Starch 34 

Varnish 37 

Starch, Percentage of 9 

Sugar, Percentage of 8 

Vinegar 37 

Washing Fluid 33 

Weight by Measure 9 

The Farmer and His Associates 41 

Bug Exterminators 44 

Cattle 88 

Butter Making . 90 

Feverish Bags 90 

Medicated Food --- 89 

Milk 89 

Weight by Measure — - 88 



280 THEREFLECTOR 

Fertilizer 42 

Hogs 91 

Cholera 92 

Horse, The 44 

Age, To Tell 78 

Balky Horse, To Tame 49 

Check Rein 46 

Diseases and Treatment 50 

Food, Hints on 61 

Valuable Recipes 79 

Poultry 93 

Salt and Its Uses 44 

Sheep 97 

Trees, To Revive Old Orchards 43 

To Keep Fruit from Cracking 43 

Vitality of Seeds 43 

Medical Department 99 

Alcoholism 119 

Bites of Serpents and Poisonous Stings 142 

Body, A Healthy 107 

Dietetics 105 

Diseases, Symptoms and Treatment 117 

Doses of Medicine 102 

Drug Habits and Treatment (Tobacco and Morphine) 125 

Nostrums (Patent Medicines) 268 

Patent Medicines (Nostrums) 268 

Short Sayings on Important Subjects 256 

Tongue Indications 99 



APR 1 1912 



