BOHJrS CLASSICAL LIBRARY 



VARRO 
ON FARMING 



'It 








PLAN OF THE 

BIRD-HOUSE 

AT 

CASINUM 




/^^ 


3^^^N 






1 r 


1 ,' " 'ilh'" 


^-i*^^y 








T*- 


m 


-^^T^^ 1 . . 


-g^ 




A Island 

B Staging 

C Duck- Houses 


1 i 


1 ^ 


r^ 


ffl'> 






1 ^i 








D Ponds 
-£■ Aviaries 




'c\j , I' 




i^ 




/^ Netting 








ft«-i 








1 '^-i 




j/ 








f« 




1 








i*M 




Sh 






11 
1 


f^^^ 


^a'i?'- - 


J ,»«.i 


1 


90 


ffii 


=^w 


s^« 




i!r^. 


so AT ^ Jo So «»/» 


\ 





See Book III, pp. 269-276 



VARRO 
ON FARMING 



M. TERENTI VARRONIS RERUM 

RUSTICARUM LIBRI 

TRES 

TRANSLATED, WITH INTRODUCTION, 

COMMENTARY, AND 

EXCURSUS 

BY 

LLOYD STORR-BEST M.A. Lond. 




i!S^ 



LONDON 

G. BELL AND SONS, LTD. 

1912 



s 






UXORI 



PREFACE 

This translation of Varro's * Rerum Rusticarum ' 
is based on the * Editio Minor' of Keil, which is 
the best text that we at present possess, and the most 
accessible to students. The numerous passages 
where I have ventured to adopt or propose a reading 
differing from that given by the great scholar are 
indicated and fully discussed either in the Com- 
mentary or Excursus. In excuse for the many 
alterations of his text which I have proposed, I 
would point out that Keil himself professes only to 
have restored the text of the Archetype, which is 
avowedly corrupt, to have made certain indubitable 
corrections, and to have cleared the ground for 
further emendation. 

In rendering the Latin, I have aimed, above all 
things, at accuracy, and have tried to say in English 
what Varro actually said in Latin, not what I 
imagine he ought to have said, or might have said, 
had he written in English. Graceful paraphrase 
would have been quite out of place in the case of an 
author who has no graces of style, is valuable 
principally for his matter, and is very difficult to 
understand. 

To other translations I am not at all indebted. 
Those with which I am acquainted — the French of 
Nisard, the Italian of Pagani, and the English of 
Clarke (1800) — are not good, and were made by men 
evidently unaccustomed to Varro's peculiar and 
archaic diction. 



vi PREFACE 

The Commentary proceeds from an independent 
examination of the original sources used by Varro, 
and of those authors who borrowed from him, 
though, as will be seen, I have made free use of 
both ancient and modern commentators. When I 
have borrowed I have — in all cases, I hope — 
acknowledged the debt. 

The apparent superfluity of illustrative matter 
will be forgiven if it be remembered that the book 
is not only submitted to the criticism of the scholar, 
but directed to the general reader, and even the 
practical farmer. For the sake of those who possess 
*' small Latin and less Greek," I have translated 
passages of general interest from Cato, Columella, 
the Geoponica, etc. 

In the Introduction and the first two Excursus I 
have treated at length of the mise en scene of the 
imaginary conversations in each of the three books, 
and of the date at which they are supposed by 
Varro to have taken place — matters which have 
been undeservedly neglected, and have important 
bearing on the text. In Excursus III certain con- 
jectural emendations are proposed and discussed. 

A plan is given of Varro's famous aviary, described 
by him in the third book. In 1794 the Prince de 
Segur published one, together with a voluminous 
commentary on Varro, iii, 5, 9, but he introduced 
many violent and arbitrary alterations into the 
text, and his plan is demonstrably wrong in many 
important particulars. 

My thanks are due and are gratefully paid to the 
Lord Abbot of Monte Cassino for his hospitality 
and gracious permission to use the magnificent 
library of the Badia; to the Signore Padre Bene- 
detto del Greco for his kindness in showing me the 



PREFACE vii 

remains of Varro's villa and aviary at Cassino, and 
for his valuable explanations of many topographical 
difficulties; to the University Library of Aberdeen 
for allowing me the use of books which I could 
with difficulty or not at all procure elsewhere ; and, 
finally, to Messrs. G. Bell and Sons for everything 
for which a generous and public-spirited publisher 
may be thanked. 



CONTENTS 





BOOK I 








Agriculture 




CHAP. 




PAGE 


I. 


Introductory .... 


I 


II. 


The Aim and Scope of Agriculture 


6 


III. 


Agriculture an Art . 


20 


IV. 


The Four Departments 


21 


V. 


Branches of the Science of Agri 






culture 


23 


VI. 


The Soil . 




24 


VII. 


The Site . 




27 


VIII. 


On Vine-training 




30 


IX. 


Farm Land . 




33 


X. 


Measures of Land 




36 


XI. 


Farm Buildings . 




. 38 


XII. 


The Site of the Farm House . 


38 


XIII. 


The Farm Yard and House 


40 


XIV. 


Fences and Walls 


44 


XV. 


Trees as Boundaries 


45 


XVI. 


On the Neighbourhood of a Farm 


46 


XVII. 


Farm Equipment — Slaves . 


49 


XVIII. 


Size of the Staff 


52 


XIX. 


Of Instruments of Production (Semi 






Vocal) 


55 


XX. 


Of Oxen and Draught Animals 


57 


XXI. 


Of Dogs and Four-Footed Stock 


59 


XXII. 


Of Instruments ofPrc 


>DucTiON (Mute 


) 60 



c 


CONTENTS 




CHAP. 




XXIII. 


Of Crops 


XXIV. 


Of Olives, and Tree Planting 


XXV. 


Of Vines 


XXVI. 


Of Vineyards . . . . . 


XXVII. 


Of Times and Seasons 


XXVIII. 


Of Divisions of the Year 


XXIX. 


Of the First Division 


XXX. 


The Second Period . . . . 


XXXI. 


The Third Period . . . . 


XXXII. 


The Fourth Period 


XXXIII. 


The Fifth Period . . . . 


XXXIV. 


The Sixth Period . . . . 


XXXV. 


The Seventh Period 


XXXVI. 


The Eighth Period 


XXXVII. 


The Moon and the Sixfold Divi- 




sion of the Year 


^XXVIII. 


Of Manuring 


XXXIX. 


Of Modes of Propagation 


XL. 


Sowing, Planting, and Grafting . 


XLI. 


Grafts and Cuttings 


XLII. 


On Sowing Lucerne 


XLIII. 


Cytisus 


XLIV. 


Of Crops 


XLV. 


Of the Growth of Plants 


XLVI. 


Of the Habits of Plants 


XLVII. 


Of the Care of Crops 


XLVIII. 


Of Grain 




XLIX. 


The Hay Harvest . 




L. 


Of Reaping 




LI. 


The Threshing-Floor 




LII. 


Of Threshing . 




LIII. 


The Gleaning . 







CONTENTS 


xi 


CHAP. 




PAGE 


LIV. 


Of Wine-Making . . . . 


io6 


LV. 


Olive Products . . . . 


107 


LVI. 


Of Storing Hay . . . . 


109 


LVII. 


Granaries 


109 


LVIII. 


Of Storing Beans and Grapes 


III 


LIX. 


Of Storing Apples . . . . 


112 


LX. 


Olives for Eating . 


114 


LXI. 


Of Amurca .... 


115 


LXII. 


Keeping and Consuming . 


115 


LXIII. 


On Bringing Corn out of Store 


116 


LXIV. 


Preparation of Amurca . 


116 


LXV. 


Of Wine 


117 


LXVI. 


Of White Olives . 


117 


LXVII. 


Walnuts, Dates, and Figs 


. 118 


.XVIII. 


Hung Fruit .... 


. 118 


LXIX. 


On Produce for Market 


. 119 



BOOK II 

Concerning Cattle 

Introduction 121 

I. Cattle-Farming: its Origin, Repute, 

AND Practice 125 

II. Of Sheep 144 

III. Of Goats 156 

IV. Of Pigs 163 

V. Of Cows and Oxen . . . .180 

VI. Of Asses i95 

VII. Of Horses and Mares . . . 200 

VIII. Of Mules and Hinnies . . . 210 

IX. Of Dogs 214 



xn 



CONTENTS 



CHAP. 




PAGE 


X. 


Of Shepherds .... 


225 


XI. 


Of Milk and Wool . . . . 

BOOK III 
Of Smaller Stock 


231 


I. 


Introduction and Dedication . 


• 239 


II. 


On Various Kinds of Villas 


245 


III. 


Of Animals fed within the Villa 


257 


IV. 


Of Birds in General . 


263 


V. 


Of Fieldfares .... 


264 


VI. 


Of Peacocks .... 


277 


VII. 


Of Pigeons .... 


. 281 


VIII. 


Of Turtle-doves 


. 287 


IX. 


Of Poultry .... 


289 


X. 


Of Geese 


304 


XI. 


Of Ducks 


• 309 


XII. 


Of Warrens .... 


■ 312 


XIII. 


Of Wild Boars and other Quad 






RUPEDS 


. 316 


XIV. 


Of Snails 


. 318 


XV. 


Of Dormice .... 


321 


XVI. 


Of Bees and Apiaries 


. 322 


XVII. 


Of Fish-ponds .... 


345 



Excursus I. On the Time and Place of the 

Dialogue in Book II . . 355 
II. The Text of the Rerum Rustic- 
arum 360 

III. Critical Notes and Suggestions . 364 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Editio Princeps. Venetiis apud Nicolaum Jensonum. 

1472. 

Petri Victorii explicationes suarum in Catonem Varro- 

nem, Columellam castigationum. 1542. 

ScALiGER, M. Terentii Varronis opera quae supersunt, 

1573- 
J. G. Schneider. Scriptorum Rei Rusticae. 6 vols. 

Leipzig, 1 794- 1 797. 
Opere di M. Porcio Catone e di M. Terenzio Varrone 

con traduzione e note. Venezia, 1846. 

Les Agronomes Latins. Nisard. Paris, 1864. 

H. Keil. M. Porci Catonis de Agri Cultura liber. 

M. Terenti Varronis Rerum Rusticarum libri tres. 

Editio maior. 1884. 

H. Keil. M. T. Varronis R. R. libri tres. Editio 

minor. 1889. 

Reiter. Quaestiones Varronianae Grammaticae. 

Regimontii, 1882. 
G. Heidrich. Der Stil des Varro. Melk, 1892. 

G. Heidrich. Varroniana L Melk, 1891. 

G. Heidrich. Varroniana H. Melk, 1892. 

Zahlfeldt. Quaestiones Criticae in Varronis Rerum 

Rusticarum libros tres. 1881. 

Krumbiegel. De Varroniano scribendi genere quaes- 
tiones. Leipzig, 1892. 
DuRAND DE la Malle. Agriculture romaine depuis 

Caton jusqu'i Columelle. 1838. 

Dickson, Adam. Husbandry of the Ancients. 

Edinburgh, 1788. 
xiii 



xiv BIBLIOGRAPHY 

BoissiER, Gaston. Etude sur Varron. 1861. 

BoissiER, Gaston. Cic^ron et ses amis. 1895. 

Spengel, L. Varro, de Lingua Latina. 1826. 

Agahd. Antiquitatum R. D. Teubner, Leipzig, 1898. 
German. Die sogenannten sententiae Varronis. 

Paderborn, 1910. 
GoDEFROY. Auctores Latinae Linguae, containing 

Verrius Flaccus, Festus, Nonius, Fulgentius, 

Isidore of Seville, etc. G^n^ve, 1595. 

(This book contains an excellent and generally 

accurate index verborum.) 
J. H. Onions. Nonius Marcellus. De Compendiora 

doctrina. 1895. 

Ernesti. Clavis Ciceroniana. 1776. 



SOURCES USED BY VARRO 

HesiOD. "Eyoywv KUi rifJLtpwv. 

Xenophon. Oeconomicus, etc. 

Aristotle. De animalibus, de generatione animalium. 

Op. omnia. Firmin Didot. 1854. 

Theophrastus. De hist, plant., De causis plant., 

Schneider. Leipzig, 1818. 

Cato. De Re Rustica in the Scrip. R. R. Schneider. 



WRITERS WHO BORROWED FROM VARRO 

Vergil. 

Columella, Palladius, Vegetius; Scriptores R. R. 

Schneider. 
Pliny. Historia Naturalis cum notis variorum, Pin- 

tiani, Dalechampii, Scaligeri, Salmasii, Gronovii. 

Rotterdam, 1669. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY xv 

Servius and Pseudo-Servius, Philargyrius, Probus. 

Comment, in Virgilium. Gottingen, 1826. 

Macrobius, cum notis I. Pontani, lo. Meursii, Jac. 

Gronovii et lo. Car. Zeunii, 1774. 

Augustine. De Civ. Dei. Frankfort, 1661. 

Isidore, in Auctores L. L. Godefroy. 
Geoponica. Cambridge, 1904. 

Petrus Crescentius in Schneider's Scrip. R. R. 
Julius Obsequens. 1772. 

AuLUS Gellius. Cura et sumptibus Philippi de Giunta 

Florentini. Florence, 1513. 

Plutarch. Opera quae extant omnia. 

Frankfort. 2 vols. 1599. 
(Has a good index rerum.) 
Censorinus de die Natali. Lugd. Bat. i743' 



Shipley. Sources of corruption in Latin MSS. (In 
*' American Journal of Archaeology.") iQOS* 

Prou. Manuel de Paldographie Latine. 1892. 

Lindsay. Contractions in Minuscule MSS. 1908. 

Thompson and Fumagalli. Paleografia G. e L. Milano. 

1911. 
Kempf. Rom. castrensis sermonis reliq. 1901. 

Lindsay. The Latin Language. 
Alexander ab Alexandro. Gen. Dierum. 

Lugd. Bat., 1673. 
Leo F. Der Saturn. Vers. Berlin, 1905. 

Lindsay. Syntax of Plautus. i907' 

Historische Grammatik der L. Sprache. 

Leipzig, 1903. 
Grandgent. Intro, to Vulgar Latin. 1908. 



PASSAGES IN WHICH VARRO PROBABLY 
FOLLOWED THEOPHRASTUS 



VARRO R. R. 


THEOPHRASTUS 


VARRO R. R. 


THEOPHRASTUS 


I, 7> 6 


H. P. I, 9, 5 


I, 40. 3 


C. P. I, 6, 3 




H. P. I, 3, 5 




C. P. I, 6, 9 




C. P. 1, 13, 9 


I, 40, 4 


C. P. 3. 5. 3 


i> 7> 7 


H. P. I, 4, 2 


I, 40, 6 


C. P. I, 6, 10 




H. P. 1,4,4 


I, 41, 2 


C. P. I, 6, 6 


1,8,6 


C. P. 3, 14, 8 


I, 4T. 4 


H. P. 6, 6, 6 


I, 9, 2 


C. P. 2, 4. I 




rC. P. I, 8, I 


I. 9> 4 


H. P. 8, 6, I 


cf. 


\ C. P. 2, 13, 4 


I, 9, 6 


C. P. 2, 4, 9 




Ih. p. 7, 5. 3 


I, i6, 6 


H. P. 4, 16, 6 


1, 41, 4 (end) 


C. P. I, 8, 2 




C. P. 2, 18, 4 


I, 41, 6 (end) 


C. P. I, 20, 3 


i> 23, 2 


H. P. 8, 7, 2 


I, 44, 2 


H. P. 8, 7, 6 




C. P. 3, 21, 3 


I) 44> 3 


C. P. I, 20, 4 




H. P. 8, 9, I 




H. P. 7, 10, I 




C. P. 3, 21, 2 


i» 45» I 


H. P. 8, I, s 


I. 23, 3 


H. P. 8, 9, I 


I, 45. 3 


C. P. I, 12, I 


I, 24, 2 


C. P. 5, II, 2 




H. P. I, 7, I 


I, 26, I 


H. P. 4, 16, 6 




C. P. I, 12, 7 




C. P. 2, 18, 4 




C. P. 3, 3, I 




C. P. 3, ID, 4 


I, 46, I 


H. P. I, 10, I 


I, 3i» 2 


C. P. 3, 14, I, etc. 




C. P. 2, 19, 2 


i> 35» I 


H. P. 2, 2, I 


I. 55. I 


C. P. 1,19,4 




H. P. 6, 6, 6 




C. P. I, 20, 3 


i» 37» 5 


H. P. I, 7, I 




C. P. 5. 4. 2 


I, 38» 2 


H. P. 2, 7, 4 


I. 55. 7 


H. P. 4, 16, 5 




H. P. 7, 5, I 




C. P. 5, 15, 6 


i» 39» 3 
I, 40, I 


H. P. 2, I, I 
H. P. 3, I, 4 


For Amurca 
cf. 


rC. P. I, 19, 2 
\ C. P. 6, 8, 3 




C. P. I, 5, 2 


[Fr. 20, 35 


I, 40, 2 


C. P. 3, I, I 


I. 59. 3 


C. P. I, 12, 9 




H. P. 2, 4, I 




C. P. 5, 6, I 




rH. P. 3, I, 4 


2, I, 27 


H. P. 3, 3, 5 




C. P. I, 5, I 


3, 2, 12 cf. H. P. 3, 15, 5 


cf. 


- C. P. I, ID, 5 

C. P. 2, I, I 
Ic. P. 5, I, I 


3. 16, 6 


C. P. 6, 5, I 



I 



INTRODUCTION 

It is most singular that out of the enormous mass 
of writings which Varro left behind him — in the 
preface to the Hebdomades he tells us that he was 
eighty-four years old and had then written four 
hundred and ninety books — this treatise on farming 
is the only one which remains to us in anything 
approaching completeness. Of the De Lingua 
Latina, which consisted of twenty-five books, we 
have now only six, and these terribly lacerated, 
while all his other works — poetry, satire, literary 
criticism, grammar, philology, science, history, 
education, philosophy, law, theology, geography, 
antiquarian research — have perished except for a 
few disjected fragments salvaged by Dionysius, 
Pliny, Gellius, Macrobius, and the Christian apolo- 
gists. There would be little cause for wonder had 
his work been poor in quality, but all antiquity is 
unanimous as to its incomparable value; in many 
branches of science and literature he was during his 
life-time and for many hundreds of years after his 
death the supreme authority. The great men who 

xvii b 



xviii INTRODUCTION 

instructed him in grammar, archaeology, and theo- 
logy, Aelius Stilo and Nigidius Figulus, became 
pigmies beside the vast bulk of him alive, and when 
he died his reputation grew greater from century to 
century and he was regarded '' by the common con- 
sent of all the learned as the most learned of all 
men." In the dark ages his great figure is seen 
among the shadows, and at the dawn of the Re- 
naissance Petrarch sings of him as the third great 
light of Rome, placing him between Cicero and 
Vergil : 

Varrone il terzo gran lume Romano. 

It is, indeed, hard to understand why so small a 
part of him should have escaped the Venus of Death, 
who has spared only one comparatively small treat- 
ise, produced when Varro was a very old man '^ pack- 
ing up his luggage in readiness for a journey out 
of this life." One great work, perhaps his greatest, 
certainly that which the moderns would choose of 
all others to possess — the Antiquities Human and 
Divine, in forty-one books — survived for nearly 
1,400 years, then vanished into a pawnbroker's shop, 
never to re-appear. Petrarch, in one of his *' letters 
to the illustrious dead," which was addressed to 
Varro, says that he had once had these books in his 
possession, and that he was tortured with eternal 
longing and regret for their loss. He had lent them 



INTRODUCTION xix 

to his old master, who under stress of poverty had 
pawned them, and died before they could be found 
and redeemed. They were never heard of again. And 
our text narrowly escaped a similar fate, for although 
in the sixteenth century there existed several MSS. 
and printed editions of the Rerum Rusticarum — so 
corrupt as to be frequently unintelligible — they all 
descended from a very ancient manuscript then 
lying in the library of St. Mark at Florence, which 
was lost in the seventeenth century. Fortunately 
Angelo Politian (1482) and Petrus Victorius (1541) 
had preserved the reading of the archetype, so that 
the great German scholar Keil has of late years 
been able to give us a respectable text — which, 
however, it seems possible to improve greatly by 
conjectural emendation. 

As the Rerum Rusticarum is thus the sole treatise 
of the most industrious, the most learned, and, with 
two exceptions, the most famous of all Latin writers, 
which has come down to us practically entire, it is 
worth while, perhaps, to examine in detail the con- 
ditions of its production. In 46 B.C. Varro, who 
was then seventy years old, ceased from political 
activity and, after making his peace with Caesar, 
who treated him with great kindness and gave him 
congenial work to do, devoted himself entirely to 
literature. He lived for nearly twenty years after 



XX INTRODUCTION 

this and published during that time one of his great 
theoretical works, the De Lingua Latina (probably 
in 45 B.C.), which was addressed to Cicero, and many 
smaller ones such as the Hebdomades (32 B.C.), the 
Disciplinae, De Vita Sua, De Vita Populi Romani, 
etc., which were practical in aim and intended to popu- 
larize science or to stimulate the patriotism of the 
rising generation. The treatise on farming (Rerum 
Rusticarum) was of the second kind. It is a practical 
handbook written especially for his wife Fundania, 
who had just bought a farm, and generally in the 
interest of posterity, with the hope, possibly, of 
persuading his fellow countrymen back to the 
** divine country," and to that life ''which is not 
only the most ancient, but the best of all " (iii, i, 4). 
But though the object may have been one with that 
of most of the great writers of the early Augustan 
age, there seems no evidence to support the frequent 
statement that Varro's work was written at the 
command of Octavius, nor does it seem at all likely 
that the latter i n 36 b. c. , when the Rerum Rusticarum 
was written (Euseb. Chron., Varro, R.R., i, i, i), 
should have yet thought much about regenerating 
by the arts of peace a country which he had first to 
win by arms. 

The books on farming were composed when Varro 
was eighty years old and were written most likely 



INTRODUCTION xxi 

in the same place as his former works (Cic. Phil., 
ii, 40), at his villa at Casinum, in the ^' Museum " 
which he mentions in book iii, and close to the 
"amous aviary which he there describes at length 

iii, 5, 9, etc.)- Remains of the villa are still to be 
^een extending along the bank of the Rapido for 

more than a quarter of a mile, and the inhabitants 
of Cassino point to a piece of gray and crumbling 
masonry which faces a little island in the Rapido 
as being lo studio di Marco Varrone. Here, too, 
he probably died, for according to Valerius Maximus 
(viii, 7), **the same couch witnessed at once the 
death of M. Varro and the conclusion of his noble 
works." 

The work then was practical in its aim, but much 
care was taken in its literary presentation, for the 
time had long gone by when such an amorphous 
mass of often unrelated facts as Cato's treatise on 
the same subject could hope to be read. Varro, 
therefore, adopts the mode of the day made fashion- 
able by Cicero in his rhetorical and philosophical 
writings, and develops the argument by means of 
imaginary conversations between real people, taking 
care, as Cicero did, to avoid anachronisms and im- 
probabilities. The dialogue of each book is provided 
with an appropriate background, a separate intro- 
duction, a dedication, and its own little drama. The 



xxii INTRODUCTION 

time and place are chosen with care, and in most 
cases the names of the interlocutors are suggestive 
of the subject treated. As a work of art it is not, 
one must confess, entirely successful; the language 
is at times slovenly and slip-shod, now jolting along 
in short and jerky sentences, now trailing through 
cumbrous and often ungrammatical periods; the 
conversations degenerate into lectures, and we may 
look in vain for the graceful ease and urbanity of 
Cicero or the beautiful lucidity of Columella. Yet 
there is so much dry and sly humour, such sturdy 
patriotism, such vigorous sense and here and there 
such real poetry — in the ore at least (as for instance 
in the description of the life of the bees in book iii) 
— the little pictures of urban and rustic life are so 
vivid, that one feels that a better written book might 
perhaps be better spared. Varro's style has besides 
a certain flavour and raciness of its own which one 
learns to like, and the study of it, beginning with 
amazement, ends in a sort of love even for its rough- 
ness and difficulty, so different from the easy fluency 
of his great friend and rival. 

As a work of science the Rerum Rusticarum is 
admittedly of distinguished merit. To its composi- 
tion Varro brought great erudition, practical experi- 
ence, and much knowledge of the subject gained at 
first hand from travel in many countries — and used 



INTRODUCTION xxiii 

ali three with restraint and judgement. But what 
is most striking is the perfection of the method 
adopted, which it would be difficult even now to 
surpass for precision and clearness of arrangement. 
The divisions which Varro made of his complex 
and unwieldy subject are natural, classifications are 
scientific, the plan of treatment is logical and con- 
sistent throughout. Whether the modern farmer 
may learn anything of profit from Varro's treatise 
or not is a question for the agricultural expert, but 
there :^an be no doubt that the methods slowly 
elaborated through many hundreds of years by the 
most practical of all peoples, and used with com- 
plete success until the time when Italian agriculture 
was ruined by foreign competition (amongst other 
causes), must be worth knowing. These methods 
Varro is at great pains to describe, so that we get 
from hiai a brilliantly clear picture of a Roman 
farm as it existed in the first century before Christ. 
And many are the interesting facts to be noted by 
the way— the use of marne as manure in Gaul and 
of vegetable charcoal instead of salt, the employment 
of silosy the imperfect domestication of geese other 
than white, the distribution in the wild state of bulls, 
horses, goats, sheep, and hens, the difference be- 
tween the type of indigenous cattle found in Italy 
then and that which now exists there — all of which, 



I 



xxiv INTRODUCTION 

with many more, seem to deserve more attention 
from naturalists than they have yet received. 

Incidentally, too, the enormous wealth and the 
incredible luxury of the few at Rome, the turbu- 
lence and corruption of elections, the frequency of 
assassination, the price of provisions, the market 
gardens, the average profits made by farms, the 
occasional employment of hired labourers in prefer- 
ence to slaves — all these and a host of other curious 
facts are vividly described or illustrated in these 
books on farming. 

The first book, on agriculture proper, begins with 
a general introduction to the whole work, and a 
statement of the method which is to be used in the 
treatment of the subject. The treatise as a whole 
is dedicated to his wife Fundania. And here we 
may observe the elaborate care given to the mise- 
en-scene by Varro. As the first book is concerned 
with the cultivation of the land, the scene is laid in 
the Temple of Tellus (earth), and the time is the 
Sementivae (Festival of Sowing). The name Fun- 
dania suggests the fundus^ or farm, as do chose of 
the aeditumus Fundilius, and one of the interlocu- 
tors, Fundanius, Varro's father-in-law. Agrius and 
Agrasius — connected with «^^r (the land) — and Stolo 
(sucker), are names of other speakers. 

The second book treats of cattle, horses, pigs, 



INTRODUCTION xxv 

sheep, etc. ; it is accordingly dedicated to Turranius 
Niger — tunc being Umbrian for taurus — and the 
speakers are Vaccius {vacca = Q,ow), whose subject 
is cattle, Atticus who treats of sheep (the Attic 
sheep was a celebrated kind), while Scrofa (sow) 
discusses pigs. The place is possibly Epirus, where 
the best cattle were bred, and the time the Palilia, 
the great shepherd festival and the birthday of 
Rome, which was founded by shepherds. 

The third book is concerned with what the 
Romans called villatica pastiOy the feeding about 
the villa of such stock as fieldfares, blackbirds, hens, 
peacocks, guinea-fowls, hares, snails, dormice, fish, 
and bees ; so it is dedicated to Quintus Pinnius {pinna 
= wing-feather), and Merula (blackbird) discourses 
on fieldfares and blackbirds, Appius (connected by 
Varro with apis) on bees. Other names occurring 
in the book are Fircellius Pavo (peacock), Minucius 
Pica (jay), and Petronius Passer (sparrow). One 
is tempted to believe also that the harsh style, as 
well as a rustic vocabulary — with words like tabani 
and diminutives such as satulli^ etc., was de- 
liberately assumed in order to be in keeping with 
the subject, and that Varro wished to represent in 
a realistic fashion the ordinary speech of the Roman 
gentleman-farmer. Unfortunately for this hypo- 
thesis we find the same crudeness, confusion, and 



I 



xxvi INTRODUCTION 

ugliness in everything of his which remains with 
perhaps the exception of such earlier works as the 
Menippeae. The truth is probably that Varro ad- 
mired too greatly the ''adorable rust" of antiquity, 
and ruined his style by pondering over and making 
excerpts from pre-Ennian writers who cared nothing 
for form in prose expression, and that while many 
current country words and homely proverbs are 
preserved in the Rerum Rusticarum, its stiffness 
and dryness are transmitted through Varro from a 
time when no prose literature in Latin existed. This 
harshness of style is frequently noticed by the 
ancients. Quintilian mentions it, and Augustine 
(De Civ. Dei, vi, 2) writes about Varro, "al- 
though he has no sweetness of utterance, he is yet 
so full of learning and of wise precepts that in the 
whole field of knowledge which we call secular, and 
pagans liberal, he is as full of information for the 
student of facts as Cicero is of charm for the lover 
of style." There is little doubt that the difficulty of 
reading Varro's work — St. Augustine (xix, i) is 
obliged frequently to paraphrase — goes far to ex- 
plain why so little of it remains to us, as people 
naturally preferred the writings of those who, using 
his facts, presented them more gracefully, and we 
need not have recourse to the story, probably in- 
vented by Machiavelli or Cardan, that Gregory the 



INTRODUCTION xxvii 

Great caused Varro's writings to be burnt in order 
to conceal Augustine's plagiarisms from them ! 

It is clear from Cicero's letters (Ad Att., iv, i6, 
etc.) that in those of his treatises which are cast 
in the form of dialogues he was careful to avoid 
anachronisms and the introduction of anything 
which might shock the reader by its inherent im- 
probability. Those who take part in the dialogue 
are real people, not unknown to the public, and 
speak each in accordance with his known character. 
We find no fictitious personages, and no violation 
of history. We may be quite sure that the more 
accurate and less imaginative Varro has been 
equally careful, and that in the Rerum Rusticarum 
we are introduced to a circle of people, all of whom 
once lived, and were his acquaintances or friends, 
and that they are portrayed in their real characters. 
Many of them, indeed, Cicero's letters have made 
familiar to us; Atticus, for instance, and Agrius, 
Appius, C. Fundanius, Cossinius, Axius — and often 
they form an illuminating commentary on Varro's 
text. As examples: Axius the senator is humor- 
ously represented by Varro as a man whose whole 
heart is set on gain: in Cicero he appears as 
an avaricious moneylender; in book ii, 2, 11, Varro 
writes of Atticus, **who was then (58 b.c.) Pom- 
ponius, and now (36 B.C.) is called Q, Caecilius": 



xxviii INTRODUCTION 

there is extant a letter (Ad Att., iii, 20) of Cicero's 
congratulating Atticus on his adoption and inherit- 
ance; in book iii, 2, 3, Appius reminds Axius that 
a few days before he had stayed at Axius's house in 
Reate, and that his visit was connected with a dis- 
pute between the Interamnates and Reatini : Cicero 
(Ad Att. iv, 15), who tells the whole story at 
length, was counsel for the Reatini, and stayed 
with Axius {vixi cum Axio), so that on this occasion 
Cicero and Axius were guests at the same house. 
This letter incidentally fixes the date assigned to 
the imaginary conversations of this book, and of 
the election of aediles described in it, which must 
have taken place in July 54 B.C. Varro and Axius 
(iii, 2, i) are represented as taking shelter from 
the blazing sun in the Villa Publica during this 
election: Cicero (Ad Q. F., iii, i) says that he 
does not remember ever to have known a hotter 
summer than this of 54. A little further on in the 
book Varro tells a ^ fish-story ' about Ummidius and 
Philippus which vividly illustrates the character of 
Philippus as described by Cicero, and of Ummidius, 
the miser mentioned by Horace. The latter or his 
children Varro probably knew personally, for Um- 
midius lived at Casinum, where stood Varro's villa, 
and it was an Ummidia who built the theatre, still 
standing, for the Casinates, as is proved by an in- 



INTRODUCTION xxix 

scription now preserved in the Badia of Monte 
Cassino. 

These examples illustrate the meticulous accuracy 
shown by Varro in arranging the background for 
these dialogues. He probably fixed upon some one 
year for the conversation of each book, and then 
consulted his notes for the events and people of 
that year, choosing of the latter those whose cir- 
cumstances and names associated them with agri- 
culture — for there were few things which Varro 
liked better than a pun. One need not wonder at 
his success in finding characters whose names came 
so pat to his purpose, for a large proportion of 
Roman names are connected with the animals and 
plants found on a farm. 

The place and occasion of the conversations in 
the first book is, as I have said, made clear by 
Varro, but there is no internal evidence to fix the 
year. From the allusion, however, to Corcyra, and 
the fleet being there, if the reference is, as most 
commentators suppose, to the great civil war of 
49-48, we may conclude that it was after this date. 
I am inclined to think, however, that the time re- 
ferred to is when Varro served under Pompey in 
the war against the pirates. In book ii the time of 
the conversation is precisely fixed, for Varro says 
that they took place when he was in command of 



XXX INTRODUCTION 

the fleets between Delos and Sicily during the wars 
of the pirates (67-66 B.C.). That the supposed occa- 
sion was the Parilia (20th April) I hope I have 
established conclusively in the note to ch. viii, § i. 
But the place is not certain. In the note to 5, i, 
I suggested Sicily and proposed '* Palicis," as an 
alternative to Keil's emendation *'Laribus," for 
the ^'Palibus," of the archetype {dum asses solvo 
Palihus ^ si postea a me repetant ut testimonium per- 
hibere possis). I now think that it was somewhere 
in Epirus, for Varro (Introduction, § 6) says that 
he is giving the substance of conversations which 
he had had with people who possessed large cattle 
farms in Epiro^ and Epirus was celebrated for its 
cattle. 

The conversations of the third book took place, 
as is said above, at the Villa Publica in the Campus 
during the election of aediles in 54 B.C. 

The sources consulted by Varro are many. In the 
introduction to book i he recommends to his wife 
as a reference library the works of fifty Greek 
authors! The authorities mostly used by him for 

^ For the impossible "Palibus" of the archetype I would 
suggest Pali bis, with repetat instead of repetant, when the 
translation would run "Come along, Murrius, and support 
me with your presence while I pay my pence to Pales, so that 
if she (or he) tries to make me pay them twice over (his) you 
can give evidence." 



INTRODUCTION xxxi 

book i are Cato, the Sasernae and Theophrastus, 
for book ii Xenophon, Aristotle, Mago, and his 
own contemporary Tremellius Scrofa ; and for 
book iii Aristotle. Varro's own treatise soon 
afterwards became the standard authority on the 
subject, and is the chief source used by the later 
writers on agriculture — Vergil, Columella, Pliny, 
Palladius — while much of it is paraphrased or 
translated by the compiler of the Geoponica, and 
by Petrus Crcscentius as late as the thirteenth 
century. 



MARCUS TERENTIUS VARRO 
ON FARMING 

BOOK I 
AGRICULTURE 

CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTORY 

My dear Fundania/ if I had leisure I would give 
a better form to this treatise. As I have not, I 
will do what a man may who has to bear in mind 
the need of haste. Man is a bubble, they say ; in 
which case the proverb must be the more true of an 
old man. And I am in my eightieth year, which 
warns me to pack up my baggage in readiness to 
journey out of this world. 

Well, as you have bought an estate, and want 
to farm it to advantage, and as you ask me to give 
the matter my attention, I will try what I can do, 

' Fundaniay Varro's wife. She is mentioned again In the 
preface to the second book, § 6. Her father, C. Fundanius, 
one of the interlocutors in this book — like Varro, of plebeian 
family — was a tribune of the people and curator viarum in 
72 B.C. Possibly Cicero's friend, mentioned in his letter to his 
brother (Ad Q, Cic, i, 3, 10), is this same Fundanius. 

B 



2 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

in the hope that my instructions may serve you not 
only during my life, but after my death as well. 

3 The Sibyl's oracles helped not only her contem- 
poraries, but also generations of men to whom she 
had never even given a thought; her books, after 
so many centuries, are still consulted officially, when 
some portent occurs and we need to know the proper 
way to deal with it — so it shall not be said that I, 
even during my lifetime, could do nothing to help 
those near and dear to me. 

4 I am, accordingly, about to write three books for 
your guidance, to which you can refer whenever, in 
any particular case, you need a detailed knowledge 
of the practice of farming. And since the gods, they 
say, help those who pay them due observance, I 
will begin by invoking not the Muses, as Ennius 
and Homer did, but the twelve great gods who form 
the Senate of Heaven. I do not mean those fine 
city gods, six of either sex, whose statues stand in 
the Forum, ^ all dressed in gold, but those twelve 
deities who are the special guides of the farmer. 

5 First in order, then, I call upon Jupiter and Tellus, 
who by means of the sky and land maintain the 
various fruits of farming, and this is the reason 

^ Deos Consentis. Their names are given in two well-known 
hexameters of Ennius, "Juno, Vesta, Minerva, Ceres, Deiana, 
Venus, Mars, || Mercurius, Jovi', Neptunus, Volcanus, Apollo." 
The court in which their statues stood, in the north-west 
corner of the Forum, at the foot of the Capitoline Hill, was 
discovered in 1834. In a.d. 367 Agorius Praetextatus, prefect 
of Rome, restored these sacro-sancta simulacra to their ancient 
state, as the inscription, still to be read there, declares. 



I] INTRODUCTORY 3 

why — as they are said to be the universal parents — 
Jupiter is addressed as '* Father Jove," and Tellus 
IS *' Mother Earth." Next the Sun and Moon, 
vhose seasons are observed for the sowing and 
garnering of the crops. Thirdly Ceres and Liber, 
IS the fruits they send are specially necessary for 
subsistence: for it is through them that food and 
-irink come from the farm. Fourthly Robigus ^ and 
Flora, for by their grace blight does not ruin the 
various grains and trees, and these flourish in due 
season. For which cause the State appointed the 
festival of the Robigalia,- in honour of Robigus, 
and for Flora the games known as Floralia."* And 
likewise I pay my respects to Minerva and Venus, 
the one of whom watches over the olive orchards, 
the other over gardens. It is in honour of the latter 
that the festival of the '^ Country Vinalia " * was in- 
stituted. And finally I pray to Lympha and Good 
Speed,* since without water all husbandry is dry 

' Robigus^ the g^od, and Robigo the goddess, of blight or 
mildew {robigo). *' They were implored not to come near " the 
crops. Cf. Aug., C. D., iv, 21. 

' Robigalia. "A festival called after Robigus. Sacrifice is 
made to this god near the corn-fields that mildew may not 
attack the crops" (Varro, L. L., vi, 16). Its date was 25th 
April, "just before the ear leaves its sheath (Pliny, N. H., 
xviii, 14). Red puppies were sacrificed. 

' Floralia. 28th April to 2nd May. 

* Rustica vinalia. 19th August. "Then Venus's temple 
was dedicated — and on that day gardens are placed under the 
protection of this goddess, and market-gardeners make holi- 
day " (Varro, L. L., lac. cit.). 

* Bonus Eventus. According to Pliny (N. H., xxxiv, 8) there 



4 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

and stingy work, and without good luck and good 
speed it is a delusion and a snare. 

7 And now that I have invoked all these deities, 
I will reproduce those conversations in which I and 
others lately discussed the practice of farming. You 
will find in them the practical information you 
need; but lest you should in the future require 
guidance upon matters not contained in them, I will 
mention those authors, Greek as well as Latin, 
from whom you may get it. 

8 Of those who have written monographs in Greek 
on different branches of the subject there are more 
than fifty. These you will be able to summon 
whenever you want a consultation on any point: 
Hiero of Sicily and Attalus Philometer; amongst 
the philosophers, Democritus, the natural philo- 
sopher, and Xenophon, Socrates' disciple; of the 
Peripatetics, Aristotle and Theophrastus ; Archy- 
tas the Pythagorean, and also Amphilochus of 
Athens, Anaxipolis of Thasos, Apollodorus of 
Lemnos, Aristophanes of Mallus, Antigonus of 
Cumae, Agathocles of Chios, Apollonius of Per- 
gamus, Aristandrus the Athenian, Bacchius of 
Miletus, Bion of Solos, Chaeresteus and Chaereas 
of Athens, Diodorus of Priene, Dion of Colophon, 
Diophanes of Nicaea, Epigenes of Rhodes, Euagon 
of Thasos, the two Euphronii — the one of Athens, 
the other of Amphipolis — Hegesias of Maronea, 
the two Menanders — one from Priene, the other 

was a statue of this god in Rome, in the right hand of which 
was a patera, while the left held an ear of corn and a poppy. 



I] INTRODUCTORY 5 

from Heraclea, Nicesius of Maronea, and Pythion 
of Rhodes. 

9 Amongst the others, whose place of birth is 
unknown to me, are Androtion, Aeschrion, Aris- 
tomenes, Athenagoras, Crates, Dadis, Dionysios, 
■ uphiton, Euphorion, Eubulus, Lysimachus, Mna- 
seas, Menestratus, Plentiphanes, Persis,Theophilus. 
All the above-mentioned wrote in prose. Some have 
treated the same subject in verse, as for example 
Hesiod of Ascra, and Menecrates of Ephesus. 

o More famous than all these writers is Mago the 
Carthaginian, who, writing in Punic, embodied 
in twenty-eight books matter that was previously 
scattered here and there in different monographs. 
Of these twenty-eight books, Cassius Dionysius of 
Utica made a Greek translation in twenty books 
which he dedicated to Sextilius the praetor, and in 
these twenty volumes he introduced much matter 
taken from the Greek writings of those whom I 
have mentioned above, shortening at the same time 
Mago's work by eight books. Of these twenty 
books a useful abridgement to six books was made 
by Diogenes in Bithynia, and presented by him to 
iving Deiotarus. I mean to be briefer still than he, 
eating the same subject in three books — the first 
jh agriculture proper, the second on cattle, and the 
third on the fattening of farmyard stock, for I shall 
eliminate from this treatise such matters as I think 
do not come within the province of farming. And 
>o I shall begin by showing what ought to be elimin- 
ated, and then proceed with the subject, following 



6 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

its natural divisions. My observations will be 
drawn from a threefold source ; from personal ex- 
perience on my own farms, from my own reading, 
and from what I have heard from experts. 



CHAPTER II 

THE AIM AND SCOPE OF AGRICULTURE 

I At the Sementivae (Festival of Sowing) ' I was 
in the temple of Tellus, on the invitation of the 
Aeditumus (guardian of the temple), as our ances- 
tors taught us to call him, though now our modern 
men-about-town correct us, and would have us say 
Aedituus,'^ There I fell in with Caius Fundanius, 
my father-in-law, C. Agrius, a Roman eques of the 
Socratic school, and P. Agrasius the tax-farmer. 
They were looking at a map of Italy traced on the 
wall. What are you doing here? I said to them, 
surely the '' Sementivae " haven't brought you 
gentlemen of leisure here as they used to do our 
fathers and grandfathers ! 

^ Sementivae feriae. A village festival which took place 
after the seed had been sown. Its date was announced by the 
Pontifices. Sacrifice was made to Ceres and Tellus, and 
prayers were offered for a good harvest (cf. Ovid, Fasti, I, 658). 

^ Aeditumus, the correct form, for which compare finitimus, 
legitimus, etc. The form Aedituus rests on a false derivation 
from aedes and tueri. 



I] AIM AND SCOPE OF AGRICULTURE 7 

Our presence has, I imagine, the same cause 
as yours, said Agrius, an invitation from the Aedi- 
tumus, and if I am right — as your nod would in- 
dicate — you must wait with us until he returns, 
for the aedile who has charge of this temple sent 
or him and he hasn't yet come back, but he left a 
request that we should wait for him. So, in the 
leantime, while he is on the way, suppose we 
►ply the ancient proverb — ^'The Roman wins by 
Itting still." ^ 
A good idea, said Agrius, and thinking that 
le longest part of a journey is, according to the 
proverb, the getting to the gate, at once moved 
>rward to the benches ; and we followed. 
When we were seated Agrasius said: You men 
rho have travelled over many lands, have you ever 
jeen any which was better cultivated than Italy? 
My opinion is, said Agrius, that there is none 
that has so little of its land uncultivated. In the 
first place, as Eratosthenes " divided the earth into 

' Romamis sedendo vincit. A saying, no doubt of Fabius 
'unctator. Cf. his advice to Paullus (Livy, xxii, 39): Dubitas 
rgo quin sedendo superaturi simus? His colleague, Minucius, 
vas of the opposite opinion (cf. Livy, xxii, 14): Stultitia est, 
'dendo aut votis debellari credere posse, . . . Audendo atque 
agendo res Romana crevit. 

' Eratosthenes, the founder of scientific geography, born 
about 275 B.C., died 195 B.C., who was made keeper of the 
g^eat library at Alexandria in 247 B.C. by Ptolemy III. Of 
his genuine writings only a few fragments remain. In one of 
them, the " Hermes," in which the celebrated description of 
the Five Zones, imitated by Vergil (Georgics, i, 233) occurs, 




8 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

two halves, the northern and the southern (the most 

4 natural division) ; and since the northern part is 
incontestably healthier than the southern, and the 
healthier a place is the more productive it is, we 
must conclude that Italy, being in the northern 
half, was originally more suitable for cultivation 
than Asia. For in the first place Italy is in Europe; 
secondly, this part of Europe is more temperate 
than the inner part, where almost perpetual winters 
reign. And no wonder, since there are districts 
between the Arctic Circle and the North Pole — the 
axis of the heavens — where the sun is invisible for 
six months together. They say, too, that in conse- 
quence of this, sailing even is impossible in the 
Ocean, owing to the sea being frozen. 

5 I say, said Fundanius, you don't suppose, do 
you, that anything can grow there, or be cul- 
tivated if it does? For Pacuvius's saying is true, 
'*If there be perpetual sunlight or night, all the 

there are these lines (v. i8), which Varro may have had in 

mind: 

avrt)v fikv [iiv trtrfxi fiscrt'ipea iravToQ 'OXvfnrov 
Ksvrpov Itti a<l>aipriQ did d' d^ovog riprjpeiaTo. 

But the division of the earth into two parts, Asia and Europe, 
Africa being considered as a part of Europe, was adopted by 
many of the ancients. Lucan, in speaking of Africa (Phar- 
salia, Bk. ix), says: St venios caelumque sequaris \\ pars- 
erit Europae. Cf also "^thici Cosmographia," p. i, and 
Varro himself (L. L., v, cap. 4): Ut omnis natura in caelum 
et terram divisa est, sic caeli regionihus terra in Asiam et 
Europam. Asia enim iacet ad meridiem et Austrum, Europa 
ad Septemtriones et aquilonem. 



( I] AIM AND SCOPE OF AGRICULTURE 9 

fruits of the earth perish through fiery glow " or 
cold! For myself, even in this part of the world 
where night and day follow each other at reason- 
able intervals, life would be impossible, did I not 
6 in summer time break the day by a siesta. How 
then could sowing, growing, or mowing be possible 
in that part of the world where there is a six-months 
night or day? 

Contrast with this Italy, where every useful pro- 
duct not merely grows, but grows to perfection. 
What spelt is comparable with that of Campania, 
what wheat with the Apulian, what wine with the 
Falernian, what oil with the Venafrian? Is not 
Italy so stocked with fruit-trees as to seem one great 
orchard? Is Phrygia, which Homer calls a|a9r£^oWirav, 
more thickly covered with vines than our country? 
Or is Argos more fruitful, which the same poet calls 
7ro?u/9ry^ov? In what other land does the iugerum^ 
produce fifteen cullei^ of wine, which is the case in 
some districts of Italy? Does not M. Cato write in 
his book ** Of Origins " as follows; ** That part of 
the Ager Gallicus " is called Roman which, lying 

' 2 actus quadratic 2^^9>oo Roman square feet = 28,000 Eng- 
lish square feet (approximately), i.e., nearly i^ acre. 

* A cuUeus = 20 amphorae. The amphora, as a measure of 
capacity = 6 gallons, 7 pints. The yield of 15 cullei to the 
iugerum amounts to about 3,000 gallons (18,000 bottles) to the 
acre. 

' Ager Gallicus. A strip of coast between the river Axis — 

I the ancient northern frontier of Italy — and the Rubicon, the 
later northern frontier. It was possessed successively by 



lo VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

beyond the Picentine country on this side of Ari- 
minum, was portioned out to settlers. In that land 
occasionally ten cullei of wine are made to the 
iugerumy And the same remarkable yield is ob- 
served in the country about Faventia, for there the 
vines are called trecenariae, on the ground that 
the iugerum is reported to yield 300 amphorae, ^ 
At this point, with a glance at me, he said. At any 
rate, your head engineer, Libo Marcius, used to 
assert that the vines on his farm at Faenza pro- 
duced this quantity. 
8 Two points above all others the inhabitants of 
Italy seem to have considered in farming: Could 
they get back a return proportionate to the labour 
and expense? And was the situation healthy? If 
either question has to be answered in the negative, 
and a man still wishes to farm, he is mentally de- 
fective, and had better be put in charge of his legal 
guardians.'^ For no sane man should be willing to 

quered by Curius Dentatus. In 283 B.C. the Roman colony of 
Sena Gallica was founded, and in 268 the Latin colony of 
Arlminum. The Ager Gallicus remained ager puhlicus until 
232, when, on the passing of the Lex Flaminia, proposed by 
G. Flaminius in order to relieve over-crowding and distress at 
Rome, it was portioned out to Roman colonists. 

' See note 2, p. 9. 

2 Ad agnatoset gentiles. G^w^/'/^^- were members of the same 
gens who bore the same nomen and were supposed to be 
descended from a common ancestor. Agnati were gentiles 
on the male side who could prove their relationship. When a 
man died without heirs of his body, his property devolved on 
the agnati — failing these the gentiles divided it. 

If a man were mad, the agnatic or, failing them, the 



I] AIM AND SCOPE OF AGRICULTURE ii 

go to the trouble and expense of farming if he sees 
that no return is possible, or that, while he may 
get a return in crops, they will be destroyed by 
disease. 
9 But here we have men better qualified than I am 
to deal with these matters; for I see coming C. Li- 
cinius Stolo and Cn. Tremelius Scrofa. Itwas Stolo's 
ancestors who proposed the law limiting the land 
held by one person (for a Stolo originated the well- 
known law which forbids a Roman citizen to hold 
more than 500 iugerd)^ and Stolo himself through 
admirable farming made good his right to the Cog- 
nomen Stolo, for not a single '^sucker" could be 
found on his estate since he went round his trees 
digging up such offshoots from the root as sprouted 
above the soil — and these were called ^^stolos." 
C. Licinius ' of the same^^wi", when he was Tribune 

gentiles^ took charge of him and his property. Cf. the laws of 
twelve tables (Cic. De Invent., ii, 148): Sifuriostis escit, ast ei 
custos nee escit, adgnatum gentiliumque in eo peeuniaque eius 
potestas esto. Persistent senseless extravagance was treated as 
madness (cf. Ulpian, Reg., 12, 2). 

' Caitis Licinius Crassus was a Tribune of the Plebs in 
145 B.C., and, according to Cicero (De Amicitia, xxv), he, 
when addressing the people from the Rostra in support of a 
popular measure, was the first to adopt the custom of speak- 
ing with his face turned towards the Forum, not towards the 
Comitium — by this implying the sovereignty of the people, 
and denying that of the patricians. The Comitium was an 
enclosure (unroofed) extending in a north-easterly direction 
from the ancient Rostra. To face the Forum the orator would 
have to turn right round, looking south. On its northern side 



12 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

of the Plebs, 365 years after the expulsion of the 
kings, was the first to lead the people, to hear the 
laws announced, from the Comitium to the Forum, 
their seven iugera of land/ 
10 The other whom I see approaching is a col- 
league of yours, one of the twenty commissioners 
appointed to apportion the Campanian lands, Cn. 
Tremelius Scrofa. Universally accomplished, he 
is also considered the greatest Roman authority on 
farming. And is he not rightly so considered? 
said I ; for his farms, owing to their fine cultiva- 
tion, are a pleasanter sight to many than the palatial 
buildings of others, since people come in his case 
to see farmhouses, not picture-galleries as at Lu- 

Comitlum the ancient comitia had been held, and In the time 
of the kings and during the early republic it was the centre 
of government and the stronghold of the patricians. The 
Rostra, a raised semicircular stone platform on the confines 
of the Comitium and the Forum — so situated that a speaker 
could be heard both by patricians and plebeians. 

^ In septeni iugera forensia. According to Pliny (N. H., 
xviii, 3), haec mensura [i.e., seven iugera] plehei post exactos 
reges assignata est. Columella also speaks of post reges 
exactos Liciniana ilia septena iugera quae plehi trihunus viritim 
diviserat. Romulus had assigned two iugera to each man. 

Varro here speaks of the populus as one person, and the 
Forum Romanum as its allotment of seven iugera. 

The meaning, then, of this difficult passage would seem to 
be that C. Licinius Crassus when proposing a democratic 
measure (that election to the priestly colleges should be by 
the people, not co-optative) addressed himself to the people in 
the Forum. Those who were then in the Comitium naturally 
quitted it for the Forum in order to hear him. 



I] AIM AND SCOPE OF AGRICULTURE 13 

cullus's, but store-houses stocked with fruit. There 
is a picture of our friend's orchard, said I, at the 
top of the Sacra Via/ where fruit is being sold for 
gold. 

11 Meanwhile, the two of whom I was speaking 
join us. We have not come too late for the 
dinner, have we? said Stolo, for I don't see 
L. Fundilius, who invited us to it. Don't be 
uneasy, said Agrius, for the Qgg^ which marks 
the last course in the four-horse chariot-races at the 
games of the Circus has not yet been removed; we 
have not even seen the egg which usually begins 

12 the solemn function of dinner.^ And so, until we 
can see the latter together, and while the Aeditumus 
is on his way, tell us what is the chief end of farm- 
ing — utility, or pleasure, or both; for they tell me 

' Summa Sacra Via. The end of the first stage of the Sacra 
Via, which went from the Sacellum Strenlae (where the 
Colosseum now stands) to the Velia. There, where is now 
the Arch of Titus, it was called Summa Sacra Via. From 
here the Sacra Via proceeded by the Arch of Fabius, the 
temple of Castor, and the Basilica lulia to the Capitol. 

* Ovum illud. An allusion to the egg-shaped objects (usually 
seven) on the spina (a low wall which passed down the middle 
of the course) of the circus which served to indicate to the 
spectators how many heats remained to be run. As each heat 
was concluded one of these " eggs " was removed. 

' Cenali pompa. A Roman dinner usually began with eggs, 
salad, etc. Compare Horace's phrase ah ovo usque ad viala — 
" from hors d'cBuvres to dessert." Martial (Epig., x, 31,4) calls 
a mullet cenae pompa : 

Nee bene cenasti: mullus tibi quattuor emptus 
Librarum cenae pompa caputque fuit. 



14 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

that you are now the great agricultural ^ expert, as 
was Stolo before you. 

We must first decide, said Scrofa, whether farm- 
ing is concerned only with the sowing of land, 
or with such things also as are brought on to the 

13 land, such as sheep and cattle; for I find that those 
who have written on agriculture in Phoenician, 
Greek and Latin, have travelled too far afield. 

It is my opinion, answered Stolo, that we are 
not bound to imitate them in every particular, 
and that certain writers have done better who have 
kept within a narrower boundary and excluded from 
it everything irrelevant to the subject. Thus the 
feeding of stock in general, which most people 
make a branch of farming, seems more the province 

14 of the shepherd than of the farmer; and so the 
headmen in each case are distinguished by different 
names, the one being called the bailiff {vilicus)^ the 
other the flock-master. The vilicus was appointed 
to cultivate the ground and was named after the 
villa, as he conveys the produce into the farmhouse, 
and out of it when it is being sold. Hence the 
country-folk even to-day say vea for ma (road)^ 

^ Ad te enim rudem esse. Rudis was the wooden foil given 
to a distinguished gladiator in token of his discharge. Such 
a gladiator frequently became a lanista (fencing-master). Ad 
te is perhaps an archaism for apud te, of which I can find no ex- 
ample. The quotation given by Victorius from Cicero, quod ad 
fratrem promiserat, has, of course, no bearing on the question. 

^ Vea. The use of e for i (in hiatus) in rustic Latin was 
common. Vea is found for via in Umbrian. Cf. Lindsay, 
"The Latin Language," p. 22. 



I] AIM AND SCOPE OF AGRICULTURE 15 

owing to the conveyance {vectura) over it, and 
vella^ not villa^ for the place to and from which 
produce is conveyed {vehif). Carriers likewise are 
said to follow the trade of conveying {velatura), 

15 Certainly, said Fundanius, the feeding of stock 
is one thing, tilling the land is another, yet they 
are related, just as the right-hand flute, though 
different from the left-hand one, is yet in a sense 
united to it since the song is the same, of which the 
one leads and the other accompanies the tune. 

16 Yes, and you may add, said I, that the shep- 
herd's life is the leading part, the farmer's takes the 
second — on the authority of the learned Dicae- 
archus,' who, in the picture he has drawn for us of 
primitive Greek life, shows that in former ages 
there was a time when men led a pastoral life, with 
no knowledge of ploughing, sowing, or pruning, 
and that they took up agriculture a degree later in 
point of time. Agriculture, therefore, plays second 
to the pastoral life, in that it is lower, like a left- 
hand flute in relation to the stops of the right-hand 
one. 

17 Then said Agrius, You and your piping not 
only rob the farmer of his flock, but the slave, too, 
of his peculmm — the ox which his master allows 
him to graze, and you do away with the laws for 
settlers, in which it is written: On land planted 
with young trees let not the settler pasture the off- 

' Oicaearchus. A Greek philosopher, disciple of Aristotle. 
His most important work was that referred to here, the 
Life of Hellas. 



i6 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

spring of the she-goat — creatures which even 
astronomy has removed to a place in the sky not 
far from the bull. 
i8 I am afraid, Agrius, said Fundanius to him, 
that what you quote is wide of the mark, for in 
the laws it is also written *^ certain cattle," and the 
reason of this is that certain animals, such as the 
she-goats you mention, are hostile to cultivation 
and poisonous to plants, for by nibbling at them 
they ruin all young plants, and not the least, vines 

19 and olive trees. And so on this ground, though from 
different motives, it was ordained that a victim of 
the goat kind should be led to the altar of one god, 
but that at another's no such sacrifice should be 
performed. The loathing in each case was the same 
— the one god wishing to see the goat dying, the 
other not wanting to see him at all. Hence to 
Father Liber — discoverer of the vine — he-goats were 
sacrificed to the end that they might suffer death 
for their misdeeds, but to Minerva they sacrificed 
nothing of the goat kind because of the olive tree, 
which is said to become barren if bruised by it, for 

20 the goat's saliva is poisonous to vegetation. At 
Athens, too, we are told that on this account goats 
are not allowed to enter the Acropolis, save once a 
year for the necessary sacrifice,^ lest the olive tree, 
which they say first sprang up there, be touched by 
a she-goat. 

No animals, said I, come within the pro- 

^ NecessaHum sacrificium. Probably the yearly sacrifice of 
300 goats to Artemis in fulfilment of the vow of Miltiades. 



I] AIM AND SCOPE OF AGRICULTURE 17 

vince of agriculture save those which can help the 
soil to greater fertility by their labour, as for ex- 
ample those which yoked together can plough 
21 the land. If what you say is true, said Agrasius, 
how are you to disconnect cattle from the land, 
seeing that dung, which is of the greatest use to 
it, is furnished by herds of cattle? Then, replied 
Agrius, we must say that a troop of slaves belongs 
to agriculture, if we decide to keep one for that 
purpose. No, the mistake arises from the fact that 
cattle may be on the land and be productive of 
revenue on that land ; but you must not make this 
fact an argument [for connecting them with agricul- 
ture] ; for if you do, other things as well which have 
I nothing to do with land will have to be admitted — 
as when a farmer has several weavers on a farm 
with buildings set apart for weaving, and so on for 
other craftsmen. 
M Well, said Scrofa, let us separate stock-raising 
from farming, and all the other things to which 
objection may be taken on this ground. Or, said 
I, am I to follow the books of the Sasernae, 
father and son, in thinking that the proper work- 
ing of potteries has more to do with agriculture 
■than the working of silver and other mines which 
are doubtless to be met with on some land? Pot- 
Steries however have nothing to do with farming, 
my more than stone or sand quarries, though 
AC need not on that account. neglect to work them 
i^ind reap profit from them on land where they can 
IHbe conveniently worked. Just as, to take another 

I 



i8 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

instance, if a piece of land borders on a highway, 
and the spot suits travellers, it is advisable to build 
inns, though they, however profitable, do not any 
the more belong to agriculture. For all produce 
that an owner gets directly or indirectly from his 
land, ought not to be credited to agriculture, but 
only such things as have grown from the ground 
for human consumption after having been sown. 

24 Then Stolo took him up, saying: You are jeal- 
ous of the illustrious author, and your criticism 
of his potteries is mere carping, while you say 
nothing about many excellent passages, for fear of 
having to praise them, though they are closely con- 

25 nected with agriculture. Scrofa smiled, for he 
knew the books and thought little of them. Agra- 
sius, thinking himself to be the only one who knew 
them, asked Scrofa to mention the passages. So 
Scrofa began, It describes in these words how 
bugs should be destroyed: '^ Put a wild cucumber 
in water, pour the water where you want the result, 
no bugs will come near. Or, take ox-gall mixed 

26 with vinegar; smear your bed with it." Fundanius 
looked towards Scrofa and said: And yet he 
speaks the truth, though the statement does occur 
in a treatise on agriculture. It is as true, I war- 
rant, said Scrofa, as his recipe for a depilatory 
— he bids you throw a yellow frog into water, 
which you are to boil until two-thirds are gone, 
and to anoint your body with what remains. You 
had better quote, said I, from that book what 
more nearly concerns Fundanius's health, for our 



I] AIM AND SCOPE OF AGRICULTURE 19 

friend's feet often ache, and pucker his forehead 
27 with frowns. Please do, said Fundanius, for I had 
rather hear about my feet than about the proper 
way of sowing beetroot/ 

I will quote, said Stolo with a smile, the very 
words he wrote: ^'Thus have I heard Tarquenna 
say,"" that when a man's feet began to ache, by 
remembering you he could be cured. I remember 
you, cure my feet. * O Earth, keep thou the pain, 
and health with me remain in my feet.'" He bids 
one sing this thrice nine times, touch the earth, 
spit downwards, and sing it fasting. Said I, You 
will find many other marvels in the book of the 
Sasernae, all of which have nothing to do with 

* Pedibus meis . . . pedes hetaceos. A pun quite in Varro's 
manner. Cf. ill, 17, 4: Hos pisces nemo in ius vocare audet, 
ius having the double meaning of (i) sauce, (2) trial. 

' Vel Tarquennam audivi, etc. Victorius supposes Tar- 
quenna to have been the name of an anagnostes, a slave 
whose office it was to read aloud. In this case the translation 
would run, "or as I have heard T. read . . ." 

But *' Tarquenna" ("Tarchna" in Etruscan)— the name of 
the mythical founder of Tarquinii, the ecclesiastical metropolis 
of Etruria — is a name not likely to have been borne by a slave. 
The whole passage from vel (or better velut, the contraction 
for both words being the same in Minuscule MSS.) to maneto 
seems to be In rough Saturnian verse. It may be that the 
incantation begins with velut Tarquenna^ and that it may 
have been addressed to the mythical hero Tarquenna. We 
should then have to read "Tarquenna," not "Tarquennam " 
(which In MSS. would be Tarquenna). The translation would 
then be: "As I heard, O Tarquenna, that when a mortal's 
feet began to ache by thinking of you he could be cured, 1 
think now of you, cure my feet," etc. 



I 



20 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

farming, and are for that reason to be rejected. 
As though, said he, you couldn't find in other 
writers, too, examples of the same kind. Why, in 
the book which the great Cato published on agri- 
culture, are there not scores, for example : how to 
make a placenta^ or a libum, or how to salt hams? 
You don't give, said Agrius, the remarkable pre- 
scription, '' If you should wish to drink deep and 
eat freely at a dinner-party, you ought beforehand 
to have eaten raw cabbage in vinegar, some five 
leaves"! 



CHAPTER III 

AGRICULTURE AN ART 

Well, said Agrasius, seeing that we decided 
what kind of things were to be kept apart from 
agriculture, will you gentlemen tell us whether the 
knowledge employed in farming is an art or other- 
wise, and what is its starting-point, what its goal? 

Said Stolo, after looking at Scrofa, It is for you 
to tell us, as you are our superior in age, in rank, 
and in knowledge of the subject. He, nothing 
loth, began: 

In the first place, it is not only an art, but an 
art as important as it is necessary; it teaches us 
what crops are to be sown and what methods adopted 
on each and every soil, and what kind of land yields 
continuously the greatest increase. 



I] THE FOUR DEPARTMENTS 21 

CHAPTER IV 

THE FOUR DEPARTMENTS 

1 Its elements are those of which, according to 
Ennius, the universe is composed: water, earth, 
air, and sun. For before sowing one's seed one 
must have gained understanding of these things, 
being, as they are, the source of all production. 
The farmer must start from this point and direct his 
course towards two goals — utility and pleasure. 
Utility seeks profit, pleasure what isagreeable. What 
is useful plays a more important part than what is 

2 agreeable. And indeed it is also true that the efforts 
which by culture make land more beautiful not only 
increase as a rule the return from it — as for example 
when vineyards and oliveyards are planted in regular 
order — but also render it more saleable and add to 
the value of the farm. For every one prefers to buy, 
and will give more for, a thing which with the 
same advantages is more beautiful, than for a farm 

3 which, though profitable, is ugly.^ Now, that land 
is the most useful which is the most healthy, be- 
cause the return from it is assured; and because, 
on the other hand, on a malarious soil however 
fertile it be, sickness and death prevent the settler 

' Nemo cnim, etc. The translation here reproduces the con- 
fusion of thoufjht in the original ; with fructuosus, fundus or 
ager must be supplied. 



22 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

from reaping the fruits of his labour. For in 
fact, when you have to reckon perpetually with 
Orcus (Pluto), it is not the profits from the land 
only which are uncertain, but the life of those who 
farm it. So in unhealthy conditions agriculture is 
mere gambling with the farmer's life and property. 

4 Yet this risk can be lessened by knowledge. For 
though healthy conditions, depending as they do 
upon soil and climate, are not in our power but 
in Nature's, yet by care we can do much to mitigate 
the graver evils. For in fact, suppose that owing to 
soil or water a farm is made unwholesome by a 
stench which exhales from it, or if owing to its 
aspect the land should be too hot, or a bad wind 
should blow, these evils are generally remedied by 
the knowledge and efforts of the owner; for the 
situation of the farm-buildings, their size, and the 
aspect of the colonnades, doors, and windows, are 

5 of very great importance. Did not the great physician 
Hippocrates at the time of a severe pestilence save 
by his knowledge, not a single field, but many 
towns? But why need I call Hippocrates to wit- 
ness? Did not our friend Varro here, at a time when 
the army and fleet were at Corcyra, and every 
house was full of sickness and death, let in the 
north wind by making new windows, shut off mal- 
arious winds, change the house-door, and by other 
precautions of the same kind bring back his com- 
rades and household safe and sound? 



I] BRANCHES OF AGRICULTURE 23 
CHAPTER V 

BRANCHES OF THE SCIENCE OF AGRICULTURE 

1 But now that I have stated the principles and 
end of agriculture, it remains for us to determine 
the lumber of departments into which its practice 
shoud be divided. 

Wky, to me they seem countless, said Agrius, 
when I read the numerous books of Theophrastus, 
which are called (purm larooiag (researches on plants) 
and tie second series entitled (puTiKuv ahim (of the 

2 causes of plant-life). The books you mention, 
said 5tolo, though I do not mean to imply that 
they ontain nothing that is of practical use or 
generd interest, are better suited to the would-be 

3 philoscpher than to the practical farmer. So with- 
out troibling Theophrastus we ask you to describe 
the deprtments of agriculture. 

Thee are, said vScrofa, four main branches 
of the science of agriculture; they consist in the 
knowldge (i) of the farm, the nature of the soil 
and its constituents; (2) of the things which are 
neededon that farm, and should be there for the 
purposi of its cultivation; (3) of what must be done 
in the pocess of its cultivation, and (4) of the times 
of the yar which are suitable for the various opera- 

4 tions 01 it. Of these four principal divisions each is 
subdivied into at least two others. The first prin- 



24 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

cipal division comprises three things which have to 
do with (i) the soil itself, and (2) the farm-buildings 
and out-houses; the second division, comprising 
things of a movable nature which are necessary 
for the purposes of cultivation, is likewise twofold, 
being concerned with (i) human and (2) othsr in- 
struments of cultivation; the third is dividea into 
two parts, one of which treats of the necessary 
operations in detail, and the second the chace of 
places where these are to be performed. The fourth 
main division relates to the seasons (i) a$ con- 
nected with the sun's yearly orbit, and (2) as related 
to the monthly course of the moon. I sh;ll first 
mention the four principal divisions, anc after- 
wards the eight subdivisions in greater detal. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE SOIL 

I Firstly then, in relation to the soil of the jirm, we 
have to consider these four points: its cofigura- 
tion, the kind of land, its extent, and how i may be 
properly fenced. 

As to configuration, there are two kinds.the one 
the gift of nature, the other induced b) human 
cultivation — for example, in the former cae a farm 
may be (i) naturally bad or good, and () in the 
latter, well-planted or otherwise. Of the tfo I will 



I] THE SOIL 25 

first discuss the natural configuration of the farm. 

2 Now there are three kinds of land which are 
.. simple in character — the flat, the hilly, the mount- 
ainous, and, springing from these three, a fourth — 
the mixed — as in the case of a farm where two or 
three of these kinds co-exist, of which many ex- 
amples may be found. To speak of these three 
fundamental degrees of elevation, without any doubt 

■ one method of cultivation is better adapted to the 
lowest than to the highest land, for the former is 
hotter than the latter; and it is the same with hilly 
ground, as it has a more temperate climate than 
either. And these differences in lands belonging 
wholly to one or other of the three kinds is the 
more marked the greater their extent. 

3 Thus where there are wide plains, the heat is 
more intense — as in Apulia where the air is com- 
paratively heavy and sultry ; and where there are 
mountainous districts, as on Vesuvius, the air being 
lighter is consequently more wholesome; and the 
farmers below suffer more in summer, those above 

4 more in winter. In spring time the same crops that 
are sown on high levels are sown earlier on the 
plains, and can be garnered there with greater des- 
patch. Moreover, both sowing and mowing take 
more time on the high than on low grounds. Some 
things grow more freely and strongly on mountain 
' mds, owing to the cold — firs and pines, for in- 

tance; on low ground, because the climate is more 

•mperate, poplars and willows flourish; some 

things are more fertile on high ground, as the 



26 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

arbutus and oak, others flourish better on low lands, 
as, for example, the almond and the large Mariscan 
fig. On hills of no great height the crops are more 
akin to those of the plain than to those of the moun- 
tain, while with high hills it is just the reverse. 

5 These three types of land (marked by differences 
of level) occasion certain differences of cultivation, 
for corn crops, it is thought, do better on the plains, 
vineyards on hills, and woods on mountains. As a 
general rule those who cultivate champaign lands 
do better in winter time, because then there is 
grass in the meadows and the pruning of trees can 
be done more easily. On the other hand, summer 
is more favourable to mountainous districts, for 
then there is plenty of green fodder there, which is 
parched on the plain, and the air is cool, which 

6 suits the cultivation of trees. Champaign land, the 
whole of which slopes uniformly in one direction, 
is better than that which is absolutely level, because 
a plain, when it has no fall for drainage, is apt to 
become swampy, and the more uneven the surface 
the worse it is, as it gets full of water owing to its 
hollows. These three and similar differences in 
elevation of land, affect cultivation in different 
ways. 



I] THE SITE 27 



CHAPTER Vn 

THE SITE 

As to the natural configuration, says Stolo, I 
fancy that Cato hits the mark when he writes 
that the best ground is that which lies at the base 
lj2of a mountain, and faces South. Here Scrofa 
breaks in with 

Concerning artificial configuration, I have this 
remark to make — productiveness varies directly 
with pleasing appearance, as in the case of trees 
supporting vines, which give better results if they 
are planted in quiiicunx ^ order, owing to their 
symmetrical lines and the reasonable intervals be- 
tween each tree. Thus our ancestors, from a given 
piece of land, badly sown, produced wine and corn 
inferior both in quantity and quality; for plants ar- 
ranged in proper order take up less room, and in- 
terfere less with one another in respect of sunlight, 
3 moonlight, and air. There are several facts which 
might lead us to expect this. For instance, nuts 
which would go when whole into a peck-measure, 

' In quincuncem. Like the Five on a playing-card. " Five 
trees so set together, that a regular angularity, and through 
prospect, was left on every side. Owing this name not only 
unto the Quintuple number of Trees, but the figure declaring 
that number, which being doubled at the angle makes up the 
letter X, that is the Emphatical decussation, or fundamentall 
figure " (Sir Thomas Browne). 



28 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

owing to their shells being compactly arranged 
by nature, when once broken up could scarcely 
be packed into a peck-and-a-half measure. More- 

4 over, trees which have been planted in orderly 
fashion, get the sun and moon uniformly from all 
sides; the result being more grapes and olives and 
earlier ripening — a double result which necessarily 
leads to the two others — more grape-juice and oil, 
and more profit. 

5 Now follows the second point mentioned : the 
nature of the soil on a farm. And it is to this that 
we generally allude when we speak of a farm as 
good or bad. For the number and nature of the 
things that can be sown and grown upon it is of 
importance, the same soil not being equally suit- 
able for all kinds of produce, but one for vines, 
another for corn, and so forth, different soils suiting 

6 different things. Thus in Crete, in the neighbour- 
hood of Gortynia, there is, we are told, a plane- 
tree which does not shed its leaves in winter; one 
also in Cyprus, as Theophrastus remarks; and at 
Sybaris, now called Thurii, there is an oak within 
sight of the town which has the same peculiarity. 
The parts about Elephantine, also, show a marked 
contrastwith Italy, in that neither figs nor vines there 
shed their leaves at all. Owing to the same cause 
many trees bear twice ; for example the vines near 
the sea at Smyrna, and the apple-trees in the Con- 

7 sentine country. Another example of the same 
fact is that while in unreclaimed land trees bear 
more abundantly, in that which is cultivated the 



i! THE SITE 29 

XI ait is of better quality. For the same reason some 
plants can live only in a watery place, or even in 
water itself, and this again with a difference, for 
some can grow in lakes only, as reeds in the Reatine 
country; others in rivers, as in Epirus alder-trees; 
others in the sea, as palms and squills do according 
; to Theophrastus. When I was in command of an 
army in Transalpine Gaul — in the interior near the 
Rhine — I came to several districts where neither 
vine, olive, nor fruit-tree would grow, where they 
manured the fields with **marne,"^ dug from the 
ground, where they could get salt neither by dig- 
ging nor from the sea, but used instead of it salt 
charcoal made by the burning of certain woods. 

Said Stolo, Cato arranges the different kinds of 
land in order of merit and divides them into nine 
classes. In the first he places land on which you 
can have vineyards yielding plenty of good wine; 
in the second, well-watered garden land; in the 
third, that in which willows can be grown; in the 
fourth, lands suitable for olive yards; in the fifth 
meadow lands, in the sixth corn lands; in the 
seventh, woods for timber; in the eighth, small 
trees, and in the ninth, land suitable for an oak- 
forest yielding acorns. 

I am aware, said Scrofa, that Cato wrote thus; 
but it is not everyone who agrees with him; 

* Candida f OS sicia Creta no doubt is "marne" — a natural 
mixture of lime and clay — which is still much used in France 
as manure. It is the marga or Candida argilla (Pliny, N. H., 
xvii, 7), called by tlie Cireeks XiuxofiytAXoi:. 



30 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

for some— and I am of the number — put good 
meadow-lands in the first rank. Our ancestors 
called prata, parata (ready) for this reason — 
Caesar Vopiscus, the ex-aedile, when pleading a 
case before the censors, called the plains of Rosea 
the nursery of Italy, seeing that if you left a pole 
there overnight it could not be seen next morning 
for the grass. 



CHAPTER VIII 

ON VINE-TRAINING 

I An objection sometimes made to vineyards is 
that their cost eats up the profit. It depends, 
said I, upon the kind of vine, for there are many. 
Some keep to the ground and need no supports, as 
in Spain; others are trained up — the so-called 
" yoked vines," to which class Italian vines mostly 
belong. In connection with the latter class, two 
terms are used, viz., pedamenta (props) and iuga 
(espaliers) ; the uprights which support the vine 
are called pedamenta^ the supports which are placed 
cross-wise have the name of iuga (yokes). Jience, 

i too, the term " yoked vines." Of these iuga there 
are roughly four kinds — the pole, the reed, cords, 
and withes. Poles are used in Falernum, reeds in 
Arpinum, cords in the country about Brundisium, 
and withes in the district of Mediolanum (Milan). 
There are two methods of training vines, the one 
proceeding on lines at right angles to the trees, the 



I] ON VINE-TRAINING 31 

other by slanting lines, the vines being trained 

lengthways and sideways. ^ The latter is the usual 

^ way in Italy. If the material needed for this train- 

I ing grows on one's property, the cost is not formid- 
; able; if much can be had from a neighbouring 
•3 estate, it is but trifling. Of the four classes of yokes 
; above mentioned, the first requires willow planta- 
; tions, the second reed-beds, the third rushes, or 

some similar plant, the fourth dwarf-trees, which 
; are connected by trailing branches of the vines. The 
i Milanese use for this trees which they call opult 
i (maple trees) ; at Canusium they employ fig trees, 
f the branches of which are strengthened by reeds/ 
I The prop, too, is of four kinds: one is stout — the 

^ Compluviata. In the ancient Italian house the roof of the 
jtrium sloped inwards and downwards from each of its four 
>ides towards the centre, where a square aperture was left 

rough which the rain might fall into the impluvium^ a tank 
I into the floor to receive it. The sloping sides of the roof, 

II MHth the aperture mentioned, were called the compluvium. 
When a vine was trained along four strings, which ran from 

c iugum (horizontal pole connecting two tree§)-to four up- 

^'ht stakes (two on each side of the iugum) which did not 

md as high as the iugum, the arrangement was called a 

mpluvium from its resemblance to the compluvium of the 

use; and the vines were said to be compluviatae . Cf. Pliny, 

H., xvii, 21 : Compluviata copiosior vino est, dicta a cavis 

Hum compluviis. Dividitur in quaternas pattes totidem iugis. 

■ //ardulatione {Po\\i\'d.n)t ardulatione (Jenson), etc., are both 

-^intelligible. Of the emendations harundulatione and arundi- 

I «a/i</«<' (Schneider), the former seems the better. Gesncr, insup- 

"^rX. o{ harundulatione y suggests the translation here adopted, 

id quotes Pliny, N. H., xvii, 22 : Saluberrima in iugoharundo 

mtiexa fasciculis. Pontedera suggests in harum iugatione. 



32 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

best that is brought into the vineyard — being of 
oak or juniper, and is called ridica ; the second, a 
bough made into a stake — the harder the better, as 
it lasts longer. When the earth has rotted the 
lower end, which crumbles away, the prop is turned 
round and the bottom becomes the top. Failing 
these two, a third kind is got from the reed planta- 
tion. From it some reeds are taken and bound 
together by strips of bark. These are then put into 
earthenware tubes, of which the bottom has been 
knocked out, so that superfluous moisture may be 
able to run through. These bundles of reeds are 
called cuspides. The fourth kind is a natural prop 
of the same kind, when the vineyard consists of 
vines trained from tree to tree. Some people call 

5 these traverses rumpi. The vine ought to be the 
height of a man, and the props should be placed at 
such a distance from one another as to allow a yoke 
of oxen to plough between them. 

The least expensive vineyard is that which, with- 
out supports, provides wine for the wine-jar. There 
are two varieties of this — one where the grapes rest 
on the earth, as is the case in many places in Asia, 
in which foxes often share the vintage with men. 
Besides, if the land breeds mice, the yield is less, 
unless you fill the vineyards with mouse-traps, as 

6 they do in the island of Pandateria. There is 
another kind of vine, of which only that shoot which 
gives evidence of bearing grapes is raised above 
the ground; under it, when the grape is forming, 
are placed little forked sticks about two feet high. 



I] FARM LAND 33 

lest the bunch be unable to learn how to hang on 
the twig until the vintage be over, and then have to 
be taught by means of a string or the band which 
the ancients used to call a cestus,^ 

As soon as the owner sees the back of the grape- 
picker, he takes back home the little forked sticks to 
spend the winter there, that he may make use of 
their services without further expense another year. 
7 In Italy the men of Reate adopt this practice. These 
differences in method depend mostly upon differ- 
ences of soil, for when the latter is naturally damp, 
the vine must be grown high, for wine, when it is 
being generated and grown, needs no water — as it 
does afterwards in the wine-cup — but sun. And 
this is the reason, I think, why the vine-shoot in 
the first place climbs up from the vine into trees. 



CHAPTER IX 

FARM LAND 

I It is important, as I said before, to know the 
nature of the land and for what it is good, or the 
reverse. The term '* land " is used in three senses — 

* Ne vindemia facta. Columella, iv, 26 (end), remarks that 
if the shoot be tied under the support [iugum)y and is other- 
wise unsupported, the weight of the growing bunch of grapes 
will cause it to break. Varro jests here more suo. The educa- 
tion of the bunch will be neglected ; it will not learn to hang 
properly until it is dead and hung up in the store-room. 

P 



34 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

common, proper, or mixed. It is used as a common 
noun when we speak of the land of the terrestrial 
globe, the land of Italy or any other country, for in 
the term so used are comprised stone, sand, and 
other things of that kind. The word is taken in its 
'* proper " sense when one speaks of land absolutely 
without the addition of any other word or qualifica- 

2 tion ; and finally it has the mixed sense when we 
describe agricultural land as clayey, stony, etc., 
for in this sense there are as many kinds denoted as 
by the common noun, and this owing to the fact 
that the whole comprises various substances. For 
in fact land taken in this sense, as it is of varying 
strength and capability, is composed of very many 
substances, amongst which I may mention stone, 
marble, rubble, sand, coarse sand, clay, red earth, 
dust, chalk, ash, burnt earth (land which is heated 
intensely by the sun, to such a degree that it burns 

3 up the roots of the crops). ^ From these various 
substances, that which goes by the general name 
of ^' land," takes, when mixed with any of them, 
the names "chalky," "gravelly," etc., land, ac- 
cording to the type of soil which predominates in 
it. And as these types vary, so do the classes into 
which we divide land, though these classes admit 
of more minute division, as each may be divided 

^ Cinis, carbunculus. Vitruvius (quoted by Schneider) says 
that land scorched by the sun becomes in Campania cinis or 
tufa — in Thuria carbunculus. Carbunculus in Pliny seems to 
mean volcanic earth, or a disease in vines caused by excessive 
heat (N. H., xvii, 24). 



I] FARM LAND 35 

into at least three sub-classes, since, for example, 

some land is very stony, some moderately so, and 

-ome almost entirely free from stones. And the same 

hree degrees of comparison apply to soils in which 

iiy of the other substances mentioned (marble, 

iibble, sand, etc.) exists. Moreover, each of these 

three sub-classes may be divided into three others, 

as each is dry, moderately dry, or wet. And these 

latter differences are of the greatest importance with 

regard to the crops to be grown. Thus experts 

would rather sow spelt than wheat on comparatively 

wet land, wheat rather than spelt on soil that is dry, 

and sow either on soil that is midway between the two 

5 extremes. Again, all these classes may be divided 
more minutely still. Take, for example, sandy soil, 
where it is of importance whether the sand be red 
or white, for the whitish kind is ill adapted for a 
plantation, while reddish sand is, on the contrary, 
perfectly suitable. These three differences in land 
are important — I mean whether it be poor, rich, or 
between the two, for rich land (as regards farming) 
is fertile in many things, poor land not so. For ex- 
ample, in thin land, such as the Papinian, tall 
trees, fruitful vines, stout corn-stalks, are nowhere 
to be seen, nor yet the large Mariscan fig; and you 
will find most of the trees and meadows parched 

6 and infested with moss; while on the other hand, 
in rich land like Etruria, you may see fruitful corn- 
lands which are sown every year, and tall trees, and 
no moss anywhere. Again, in land of medium 
quality, as in Tibur, the nearer it comes to being 



36 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

rich rather than poor, the better it is for all crops, 
better, I mean, than it would be if it erred in the 
wrong direction. 

Here Stolo remarked, Diophanes of Bithynia is 
not far wrong when he writes, with regard to the 
kind of land which will repay cultivation or not, 
that [favourable] indications may be had either 
from the land itself or from the things that spring 
from it: from the soil itself, if it be white or black, 
such as easily crumbles when dug, and if it neither 
resembles ashes in texture, nor is very heavy: from 
the spontaneous products of the soil if they are of 
good growth and bear plentifully fruit of their kind. 
But now for that third topic which follows — please 
tell us about the measures of land. 



CHAPTER X 

MEASURES OF LAND 

1 Said he: Different nations have adopted differ- 
ent measures for measuring their fields. Thus 
in Further Spain the iugum^ in Campania the ver- 
sus^ whilst with us on Roman and Latin ground, 
the iugerum is used. The iugum is what a yoke of 
oxen can plough up in one day; the versus means 

2 a square loo feet by loo; the iugeruvi equals two 
square actus ; the square actus is 1 20 feet long and 
the same in breadth. This measure is called in 



I] MEASURES OF LAND 37 

Latin acnua.^ The smallest division of a iugerum is 
called a scripulum^ that is, a square 10 feet by 10. 
Taking this (iugerum) as the unit, land surveyors 
sometimes when speaking of a bit of land which is 
left over after they have reached the iugerum^'^ call 
it an ounce, or two ounces, or whatever it be, for 
the iugerum has 288 scripula^ which is what our 
ancient as weighed before the Punic w^ar/ A couple 
of iugera, an allotment said to have been made first 
by Romulus to each man to descend to his heir, 
was called a heritage, heredium. Afterwards these 
hundred ** heritages" (200 iugera) were called a 
centuria. Acenturia (133 acres) is a perfect square, 
each side of which is 2,400 feet long. Four centuriae^ 
moreover, joined so that there be two together in 
every direction, are, in the case of allotments to 
individuals by the State, called a saltt^s, 

' Latine acnua appellatur. Columella, v, i, 5, mentions the 
Gallic equivalent for actus (half a iugerum) as arepennis 
(French arpent), and states that this measure was called by 
the farmers of Baetica acnua. In the same section he quotes 
Varro in relation to the actus minimus (480 sq. ft.). Probably 
some words have dropped out of the text, or Baetice should 
be read instead of Latine. 

' In subsecivum. In subsecivo seems a probable emenda- 
tion. It would mean "in the case of a piece left over." A 
copyist might easily take in subsecivo for in subsecivo^ stand- 
ing for in subsecivom. 

* Unciam agri. The cls — originally a measure of weight — 
was divided into 12 ounces or 288 scripula (scruples). The 
iugerum was also divided into 288 scripula. Hence fractions 
of the iugerum might be expressed by the sam denomination 
as fractions of the as. 



38 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 



CHAPTER XI 

FARM BUILDINGS 

1 By not paying attention to the size of the farm 
many people have failed, some making the farm 
buildings smaller, others larger than the size of the 
farm required, and either mistake is bad economy, 
and bad for the produce of the farm. For the larger 
the buildings, the more they cost to build and the 
more to maintain, and when they are too small for 
the needs of the farm, the produce, as a rule, is 

2 spoilt. For instance, it is clear that where there are 
vineyards, the wine-store must be made large, but 
where the land grows corn, large barns are required. 
The farmhouse should be built preferably where it 
may have water, either within its own enclosure, 
or, failing that, as near as possible; there should be 
first a natural spring, and secondly one that never 
runs dry. Where there is no running water at all, 
cisterns should be made indoors, and in the open 
air a pond, the former to be used by people, the 
latter by cattle. 

CHAPTER XII 

THE SITE OF THE FARM HOUSE 

I You must be careful to place the farmhouse at 
the base of a well-wooded mountain — the best situa- 
tion — where there are wide pastures, and see that it 



I] THE SITE OF THE FARM HOUSE 39 

ace the healthiest winds which blow in the district. 
The farmhouse which faces the equinoctial East 
has the best aspect, for it has shade in summer, and 
in winter gets sunshine. If you should be obliged 
to build close to a river, you must be careful not to 
build your farmhouse to face it, for in winter it will 
become exceedingly cold, and in summer unwhole- 

2 some. Note also if there be any swampy ground, 
both for the reasons given above, and because certain 
minute animals, invisible to the eye, breed there, 
and, borne by the air, reach the inside of the body 
by way of the mouth and nose, and cause diseases 
which are difficult to be rid of.^ Said Fundanius:^ 
What shall I do to escape malaria, if I am left an 
estate of such a kind? Why, said Agrius, even 
I can answer that question. You must sell it for 
as many pence as you can get, or if you can't sell 
it you must quit it. 

3 Scrofa went on: You must not allow your 
farmhouse to face a quarter from which an un- 
wholesome wind commonly blows, nor must you 
place it in a basin surrounded by hills, but its 
situation should rather be lofty than low. Such a 
place being wind-swept, if any evil thing should be 

* Difficilis morhos. Columella, i, 5, 6, speaks of marshes 
breeding infestis aculeis armata animalia^ i.e., mosquitoes. 
Schneider's comment on this passage is amusing. "Am, I to 
believe that Varro attributed lingering diseases to these small 
gnats? Never did any doctor ancient or modern make such 
an assertion." Varro, however, though he may appear to 
speak of malarial microbes, does not connect them with 
•* small gnats " as their carrier. 



40 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

carried thither, it is easily blown away. Moreover, 
as it gets the sun all day long, it is healthier, for 
any small insects which breed or are carried there 
are either blown away or quickly perish from 
drought. 
4 Sudden rainstorms and rivers in flood are dan- 
gerous to those who have their dwellings on low- 
lying ground or in hollows; there is danger also 
from sudden bands of robbers who can more easily 
surprise them. For both these reasons high ground 
is the safer. 



CHAPTER XIII 

THE FARM YARD AND HOUSE 

1 In the farmhouse, stables and cowsheds must be 
made for greater warmth in winter. Produce, such 
as wine and oil, must be kept in storehouses on the 
ground floor (you must also make a place for the 
oil and wine vessels) ; ^ dry produce, such as beans 
and hay, must be stored in raised barns. You must 
also provide a place for the slaves to occupy when 
exhausted by work or cold or heat, where they can 
stroll about or refresh themselves in comfort by 

2 sleep. The foreman's room should be close to the 
door, and he should know who goes in or out at 

^ Item ut vasa, etc. The text as it stands in Keil is unin- 
telligible to me. I have adopted Pontedera's conjecture, t'iem 
uhi vasa vinaria et olearia esse possint. 



I] THE FARM YARD AND HOUSE 41 

night, and what he is taking with him, especially if 
there is no door-keeper. In particular you must see 
to it that there be a kitchen adjoining the farmhouse, 
tor in the dark winter mornings before the sun is 
up several things are done there, and food is cooked 
and eaten in it. Moreover, for the wagons and such 
implements as fear a rainy sky, roofed buildings of 
sufficient size should be made in the farmyard; for 
these, if merely stored in the enclosure under the 
open sky, are only safe from thieves, but cannot 
stand against bad weather. 
3 On a large farm it is better to have two yards: 
one having in the middle a place where rain-water 
may collect; or, in case there is running water, a 
place inside the bases of the pillars that surround 
the yard, which may be made, if desired, into a half- 
tank.^ For cattle returning from the plough-land in 
summer drink and bathe here, as well as gQesQy sows, 

' Cna ut inierdius. The condition of the text here seems 
desperate. Interdius, despite the ingenious attempts of 
Schneider and others to explain it, gives no satisfactory 
sense. Aqua saliens must mean "running water," i.e.y a 
stream. Pliny (Epist., ii, 17, 25) says that his villa has no 
aqua saliens^ though It has wells, or rather springs. I would 
•uggest the reading : Una ut interius compluvium haheat aut 
locum, etc. A copyist might easily have omitted the aut, 
which I have Inserted, through the influence of the at imme- 
diately preceding It. Cum venit (the reading of editions before 
Victorlus) would make still better sense. 

The pond is called semipiscina, perhaps because It would 
have masonry (the stylobates) on one or two sides only, the 
piscina usually on four. 



42 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

and pigs, when they come back from feeding. In the 
outer yard there should be a pond for soaking vetch 
and other things that are better for consumption after 

4 being put into water. The outer yard, if it be fre- 
quently strewn with straw and chaff, and trampled by 
the feet of cattle, is useful to the farm through what 
is taken out of it. Close to the farm buildings there 

,;M«>rvu ^should be two manure heaps, or one divided into two; 
\ h'*y for the one part should be made of fresh manure, while 
'^^'^ the other should be taken on to the land only when 
^' old, for manure that has rotted is better than that 
which is fresh. A manure heap is better, too, if its 
sides and top are protected from the sun by twigs and 
J leaves, for the sun must not suck out beforehand 
the goodness which the earth requires. And ac- 
cordingly good farmers, if they can manage to let 
water flow into it, do so on that account. For thus 
the juice is best kept in. In the manure-heap some 
place the slaves' privies. 

5 A building should be made under the shelter of 
which you can put the whole of the farm's harvest 
— which some call a nuhilarium. It should be close 
to the threshing floor, where your corn is to be' 
threshed; of a size proportionate to that of the 

V farm ; open on one side — the side next the thresh- 
ing-floor — so that you can both easily throw the 
corn to be threshed into it, and, if the sky begins to 
cloud over, you can quickly throw it back again. It 
should have windows on that side where the wind 
can best blow through it. 

6 Said Fundanius: A farm is assuredly more 



I] THE FARM YARD AND HOUSE 43 

profitable as far as the buildings are concerned if in 
building you aim at the thrift of the old-time farmers 
rather than the extravagance of the moderns. For 
the former built farmhouses to match the farm 
produce, the latter to gratify their unrestrained self- 
indulgence. And, as we should expect, the farm- 
houses of the ancients cost more than their suburban 
villas, but nowadays they generally cost less. In 
old times a farmhouse was praised if it had a good 
farm-kitchen, roomy stables, wine and oil store- 
rooms of a size suitable to the farm, with a 
paved runnel sloping to a vat; for often when new 
wine is laid down, jars, as in Spain, and butts, as 
in Italy, are burst by the fermentation of the must. 
And they saw to it that in a farm of this kind there 

17 should be everything else needed for working. But 
now on the other hand the size and decoration of a 
man's country-house is his main care, and he tries 
to rival those country-houses of Metellus or Lucul- 
lus, the building of which had the worst conse- 
quences for the State. To-day people are anxious 
that their summer suite of dining-rooms shall face 
the coolness of the East, and their winter suite the 

il West, instead of doing as the ancients, whose care 
vas the aspect of the windows in the wine or oil 

I ^tore-rooms, since the produce of the grape seeks 
comparatively cold air for its casks while the oil 
store-room needs hotter air. Again, if there is a 
hill, see that your farmhouse be placed near it — 
unless there is something to prevent your doing so. 



44 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 



CHAPTER XIV 

FENCES AND WALLS 

1 Now concerning the fences which are to be made 
to protect the farm or part of it: of these protections 
there are four kinds — one is the natural fence, the 
second is of timber, the third that used for military 
purposes, and the fourth of masonry. Each of these 
kinds has several species. The first kind — the 
natural fence — is a quick-set hedge, to form which 
brushwood or thorn trees are usually planted. This 
has roots, and need not fear the lighted torch of a 

2 mischievous passer-by. The second is of forest- 
timber, not live wood. It is made of stakes set 
close together and interwoven with brushwood ; or 
of broad stakes through which holes have been 
bored, while through the holes in each upright two 
or three poles are passed; or it is made of tree 
trunks set up in a row and sunk into the ground. 
The third, the military fence, is a trench-and-ram- 
part arrangement, but the trench is suitable only if 
it can hold all the rain-water that comes down, or 
has a fall so that the water may run off the farm. 

3 That rampart is good which is continuous on the 
inside with a ditch, or is so high that it is not easy 
to get over it. Fences of this kind are usually made 
parallel with highways, or following the course of 
streams. On the Via Salaria, in the neighbourhood 



I] TREES AS BOUNDARIES 45 

of Crustumerium, you may see in several places 
embankments and ditches together, to prevent the 
river from damaging the fields. Embankments 
without trenches are made, which some people call 
4 walls as in the country about Reate. The^ fourth, ^ 
the fence made by the builder, comes last — the 
wall-fence, I mean. There are roughly four kinds: 
they are made of stone, as in the country round 
Tusculum, of kiln-baked bricks as in the Ager 
Gallicus, of sun-dried bricks as in the Sabine 
country, or of earth and pebbles set in moulds, as 
in Spain and the parts about Tarentum.^ 



CHAPTER XV 

TREES AS BOUNDARIES 

I MAY add that the boundaries of an unfenced 
fkrm are safer if marked by trees planted along 
them, for otherwise your slaves brawl with their 
neighbours and your boundary lines may have to 
be determined by a law-suit. Some people plant 
pines round the farm — my wife has them in the 

* Ex terra et lapidibus. Pliny, N. H., xxxv, 14, speaks of 
farietes formacei, which in forma circumdatis utrinque duabus 
iabulis inferciuntur. Two boards were set up parallel to each 
other, and the space between them was filled with concrete. 
Pliny says that these walls were very durable. This mode of 
construction is still used in parts of England where chalk and 
flint pebbles occur. 



46 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

Sabine country; others plant cypresses as I did 
near Vesuvius, others elms, as many do in the 
Crustumerian country ; for where it is possible, as 
it is in that district, seeing that it is a plain, no 
better tree can be planted, for it is extremely profit- 
able, as it often supports ^ and collects for you many 
a basket of grapes, supplies to sheep and cattle 
leaves that they greatly enjoy, and furnishes boughs 
for hedges, hearth, and oven. 

Said Scrofa: Well, these are the four matters 
which, as I remarked, a farmer should first con- 
sider, namely: the configuration of the farm, the 
nature of its soil, the extent of the land, and the 
maintenance of its boundaries. 



CHAPTER XVI 

ON THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF A FARM 

I There remains a second department of the sub- 
ject, which has to do with what is outside the farm. 
Now a farm's immediate surroundings, owing to ijts 

^ Et sustinet saepe. So Keil for the MSS. reading. Et sus- 
tinet saepem, which would mean " supports a fence," in which 
Schneider and the rest see no sense. But the elms might play 
the part of the pali statuti crehri mentioned in the previous 
chapter (xv). A row of trees ' * supporting a fence " is com- 
mon enough in this country. 



I] THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF A FARM 47 

close connection with them, are of infinite import- 
ance to the farmer. 

And here there are four points for consideration : 
Is the neighbourhood unsafe? Is there no place to 
which we can conveniently take our produce for 
sale or from which we can procure what we need? 
Thirdly, are roads or rivers to convey the produce 
either absent or unsuitable? And fourthly, is there 
any thing on the adjoining farms likely to do good 
or harm to our own? 

t The first of these questions, whether the district 
is safe or unsafe, is important, for there is much 
xcellent land which it does not pay to cultivate, 
cause the neighbours are brigands; some land in 
irdinia, for example, near Oelies, and in Spain 
)Out Lusitania. Those estates which have a suit- 
nle market in the neighbourhood for the sale of 
their produce, and can thence obtain what is needed 
for the farm, are so far profitable. For many people 
in the case of farms short of corn or wine or any- 
thing else, have to send elsewhere for them ; whilst 
on the other hand there are a good many who have 

; to send away some of their produce. Thus close to 
a city it pays to cultivate gardens on a large scale, 
fields of violets and roses, for instance, and many 
other things which a city welcomes, whereas it does 
not pay to grow such things on a distant farm which 
has no available market for them. Similarly if towns 
or villages exist in the neighbourhood, or even the 
well-stocked farms and country-houses of the 
wealthy, from which you can buy cheaply what your 



48 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

farm requires, while selling to them at the same 
time your superfluities — props for example, or poles 
or reeds — the farm is more profitable than if these 
things should have to be brought from a distance, 
and sometimes, too, than if you could produce 

4 them on your own land. And so, for example, 
farmers prefer to employ the doctors, fullers, car- 
penters, etc., in the neighbourhood, to whom they 
can give work year by year, rather than have their 
own on the farm ; for the death of a single one of 
these craftsmen is apt to do away with the farm's 
profit. 

Rich men, with large estates, look to the home 
resources for the supply of this branch of the staff. 
For where towns or villages are too far away they 
procure smiths and all the other skilled workmen 
they need, and keep them on the farm so that 
their gang of slaves may not have to quit work 
and walk about making holiday on work-days, in- 
stead of rendering the land more profitable by their 

5 labour. Hence the rule given in Saserna's book, 
that no one is to leave the farm save the bailiff, the 
house-steward, and one other to be appointed by 
the bailiff; if any one does so, he is not to go un- 
punished; if he does get off, the bailiff is to be 
severely dealt with. Better had been the rule, that 
no one should leave without the bailiff's permission, 
and that the bailiff should not go without the 
master's leave so far away as to be unable to return 
on the same day, and that no oftener than the farm 
required. 



! FARM EQUIPMENT— SLAVES 49 

The transport of produce makes the farm all the 
more profitable if there are good wagon-roads or 
navigable rivers close by. For by both these many 

iiings are, as we know, brought to and from a 

arm. 

Again, the products of the farm are influenced 
by the way in which your neighbour's land is 
planted. If, for instance, he has an oak-grove on 
the common boundary, you would be wrong to 
plant olive trees on the edge of such a wood, for 
these have a natural antipathy to it so great that, not 
only do they bear worse, but even, in their efforts 
to escape, bend away inwards towards the farm 
precisely as does the vine if planted near cabbages. 
Like oak-trees, walnut-trees near your farm, if of 
large size and standing at little distance from one 
another, make its margin totally unproductive. 



CHAPTER XVII 

FARM EQUIPMENT — SLAVES 

1 1 HAVE treated thus far of the four conditions of 
agriculture which are connected with the soil of the 
farm, and also of the second four which have to do 
with its external circumstances. I shall now go on 
to speak of the instruments of agriculture. 

These are divided by some into two parts, namely 
(i) men who work, and (2) men's tools without 
which they cannot work; others divide them into 

E 



50 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

three classes, namely, (i) the class gifted with 
speech, (2) that which has inarticulate voice, and 
(3) that which is voiceless. To the first belong 
slaves, to the second oxen, and to the third wagons. 

2 Now in all agriculture human beings are used — 
either slaves, or freemen, or the two together. Free- 
men are employed either where the farmer himself, 
helped by his family, tills the soil, as is the case 
with most peasant proprietors, or where freemen are 
hired, as when the more important agricultural 
operations, such as the vintage or the hay-cutting, 
are conducted by gangs of hired labourers; and by 
those whom our country men called obaeratt^debtorsY 
— who still exist in great numbers in Asia, Egypt, 
and Illyricum. About these as a class I have this 
to say: It pays better in an unhealthy district to 
use hired labourers than slaves, and in a healthy 
district, too, for the more important work of the 
farm, such as the getting in the vintage or the 

3 harvest. Of the qualifications of these labourers, 
Cassius ^ writes as follows: You are to get labourers 

^ Obaeratus probably equals nexus ^ concerning whom Varro, 
L. L., vii, 5, writes: "The freeman who gave his services as 
a slave until he could pay the money he owed is called nexus, 
also obaeratus (from the word aes).^' He was not a slave, but 
could be imprisoned and kept at work by his creditor, from 
whom the farmer might hire him. From the farmer's point 
of view he would thus be a mercenarius or hired labourer. 
Nexum was abolished by the Lex Poetilia, 326 B.C. 

^ Cassius. The Cassius Dionysius of Utica mentioned in 
the first chapter of this book (i, 1,1), who translated Mago's 
great treatise on agriculture. 



I] FARM EQUIPMENT— SLAVES 51 

who are able to stand hard work, who are not less 
than twenty-two years old, and who will be quick 
to learn the work of a farm. You may form an 
opinion about this from the way they have performed 
other tasks, or by asking those of them who are 
new to farm work what they have been accustomed 
to do when with their former master. The slaves 
should not be timid nor yet of too high spirit. Those 
^et over them ought to know how to read and write 
and should have received some slight education; 
they should be of good character and older than the 
labourers mentioned above — for the latter obey them 
more readily than they do younger men. In addition 
to this the one quality necessary in an overseer is 
practical skill in farm work: for his duty is not 
merely to give orders, but to set an example, that 
those under him may imitate him as he works, and 
realize that his superiorposition is not without cause, 
S but is the result of superior knowledge. Nor must 
an overseer be allowed to enforce his orders by the 
whip rather than by words, provided that the same 
lesult can be obtained equally well by the latter. It 
is well, too, not to have too many slaves of the 
same tribe, for this is a principal cause of quarrels 
in the household. 

You should quicken the interest of the over- 
seers in their work by means of rewards, and should 
see that they have something of their own, and 
women slaves to live with them and bear them 
children, for this makes them steadier and more 
attached to the estate. The slaves from Epirus are 



52 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

a case in point, for owing to these family ties they 
are of better repute and fetch a greater price than 

6 others. The goodwill of the overseers you should 
win by an occasional mark of esteem, and you 
ought to discuss, too, with the best of the labourers, 
the farm-work that is to be done, for where this is 
the case their sense of inferiority is lessened, and 
they feel that they are held in some account by their 

7 master. Their enthusiasm for work is increased by 
treatment more generous than usual, by better food 
and clothing, by occasional exemption from work, 
or the permission to graze a beast of their own on 
the farm, and by other privileges of the same kind 
— so that any who have been given too hard a task, 
or too severe a punishment, may thus be consoled, 
and their goodwill and kindly feeling towards the 
master be restored. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

SIZE OF THE STAFF 

I As regards the farm-hands, Cato considers two 
factors: the quantity of land and the kind of crop 
grown. Taking olive plantations and vineyards, 
he describes what I may call two typical cases. In 
the one he gives directions for the management 
of an olive plantation of 240 iugera (160 acres), 
stating that on a plantation of this extent you should 



I] SIZE OF THE STAFF 53 

keep the following thirteen slaves: a bailiff, his 
wife, five labourers, three herdsmen, one ass-driver, 
one swineherd, and one shepherd. The second 
case with which he deals has to do with a vineyard 
of 100 iugera (67 acres), for which he considers 
necessary these fifteen slaves : one bailiff, his wife, 
ten labourers, one herdsman, one ass-driver, and one 

1 swineherd. Saserna states in his book that one man 
is enough for eight iugera^ and that he should dig 
them over in forty-five days, though four days' work 
should suffice for each iugerum. The thirteen days 
left over he allows for cases of illness, bad weather, 

Sunskilfulness, and idleness. Neither of these two 
authors has left us a very clear explanation of his 
standards, for if Cato meant us — as he must have 
done — to add or subtract in proportion to the greater 
or less extent of the farm, he should have said so, 
and he ought to have excluded the bailiff and his 
wife from the working-staff of slaves, for certainly, 
if the olive plantation which you are cultivating 
should be of less than 240 iugera ^ you cannot have 
less than one bailiff, nor, should your farm be twice 
as big or more, are you bound therefore to have 

4 two or three. Practically, it is only the number of 
labourers or herdsmen that must be increased accord- 
ing to the size of the farm ; and this rule, too, holds 
good only if the land is of uniform character. If, 
however, it is not so, to the extent of being un- 
ploughable in parts, being of a broken nature and 
having stiff hills, then you need fewer oxen and 
fewer herdsmen. I pass over the fact that the stand- 



54 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

ard set up by Cato, 240 iugera^ is neither a received 

5 unit of measurement nor convenient (a convenient 
one would have been the centuria of 200 iugerd)^ 
though, seeing that the 40 iugera subtracted from the 
240 to make the centuria are their sixth part, I do 
not see how, on his system, I am to subtract a sixth 
from the thirteen slaves as well, nor is it any more 
clear to me how, after deducting the bailiff and his 
wife, I am to take away a sixth of the remaining 
eleven slaves. 

Again, as to the statement that fifteen slaves are 
needed in the case of a vineyard consisting of 
100 iugera-. suppose a man has a centuria — half 
vineyard, half olive plantation — it will follow that 
he must have two bailiffs with their wives, which is 
absurd. So we must find by some other way a 

6 general rule to determine the number of slaves 
required, and on this head Saserna is better and 
clearer than Cato when he states that one labourer 
can get through a iugerum in four days' work. 
Still, if one labourer was enough on Saserna's farm 
in Gaul, it does not at all follow that such is the 
case on mountainous land in Liguria. 

I conclude then that your best way to settle the 
question of the size of your staff of slaves and the 
rest of the farm equipment, will be to note with care 

7 three points: the size and nature of the neighbour- 
ing farms, the number of hands with which each is 
cultivated, and the number of labourers you find 
may be added to or deducted from your staff, with 
better or worse results in the cultivation of your own. 



I] INSTRUMENTS OF PRODUCTION 55 

For in agriculture nature has allowed us a two- 
fold method, that of experiment and imitation. The 
first farmers determined most questions by experi- 
ment, their descendants, to a large extent, by 
8 imitation. We should adopt both courses — some- 
times imitating others, sometimes, as a change, 
mating certain experiments of our own — experi- 
mer.ts made not at haphazard, but in accordance 
with some rational plan. For example, if we dig 
our vineyards over again to a greater or less depth 
thai others, what is the effect of such a proceed- 
ing^ Thus did they who first hoed the land two or 
three times, thus those who changed the time of 
fig-crafting from spring-time to summer. 



CHAPTER XIX 

OF INSTRUMENTS OF PRODUCTION (SEMI-VOCAL) 

I \s for the remaining part of the farm's equipment 
vhich I have spoken of as semi-vocal — Saserna 
vrites that for 200 iugera of ploughland two 
jokes of oxen are sufficient, whereas Cato states 
tiat three oxen are required for every 240 iugera 
flanted with olives ; whence it follows that if Saserna 
E right, a yoke of oxen is needed for a hundred 
ugera ; if Cato, one ' for each eighty. It is my 

' Trinos borves. This conflicts with the statement further 
•n that if Cato is right a. yoke of oxen is required for eighty 
I ugera. Gesner considers tririos hoves to mean three yokes of 

t 



56 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

opinion, however, that neither of these numbers 
suits every kind of land, and either number suits 
some land. For different soils are more or less easy 

2 to plough. Some land can be broken up only by 
oxen of great strength, and often the plough-beam 
breaks and the ploughshare is left in the land. So, 
in the case of particular farms, we must while yet 
without experience be ruled ^ by three considera- 
tions: the practice of the former owner, that of our 
neighbours, and judicious experiments of our own. 

3 As to Cato's addition of three asses to carry 
manure and an ass to turn the mill (in the case of 
a vineyard of a hundred acres, one yoke of oxen, one 
yoke of asses, and one ass to turn the mill), we ought 
to include in this category of semi-vocal instru- 
ments only those sheep and swine which will aid 
production, and the few which are usually kept as 
the slaves' private property in order that the latter 
may more easily maintain themselves and stick wel 
to their work. With regard to this kind of stock 
not only do those who have pasture land prefer U 
keep sheep rather than swine, but those also wh< 
keep them not on account of the pasturage, but for 
the sake of their manure. 

Dogs in any case you must have, as the farm ii 
not safe without them. 

^ Quo sequendum . . . regula^ etc. Schneider, with no sup 
port from MSS., reads regulam, etc. ReguJa (for regulam 
might easily be corrupted to regula ; and the reading of th< 
text is at the least extremely harsh. 



I] OXEN AND DRAUGHT ANIMALS 57 
CHAPTER XX 

OF OXEN AND DRAUGHT ANIMALS 

I Of all the quadrupeds, then, we will consider first 
the oxen you are buying for the plough, and say 
what kind is suitable for the purpose. These should 
be unbroken when you buy them, and not less than 
three, or more than four years old; they must be 
strong ^d well-matched, lest in their work the 
stronger wear out the weaker; they should have 
wide horns, be black for choice, with broad fore- 
heads, flat noses, broad chests, and well-furnished 
quarters. 

t Those which have grown up in plains should 
not be bought for use in a mountainous and stiff 
country, and the converse is equally to be avoided.' 
When you have bought unbroken heifers, if you 

* Nee non, contra, si incidtt, ut sit vitandum. So Keil, 
whose punctuation seems here to be wrong. Zahlfeldt ( * ' Quaes- 
tiones Criticae" in Varr. R. R., Berlin, 1881) suggests, no 
doubt rightly, that the comma should be placed at sit. He 
was anticipated, however, by the Italian edition of 1846, 
where this punctuation is adopted. Victorius, in his "most 
lieuthful and ancient MS.," found nee non tra, and suggests 
nee eontra, etc., the translation of which would be "and the 
converse need not be avoided "; but Columella (vi, 2, 12) dis- 
tinctly states that both changes— from mountains to plains and 
1 plains to mountains— are bad. The order of words in the 
phrase eontra si ineidil ut sit for si incidit ut sit contra is quite 
Varronian. 



58 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

put their necks into furcae^^ which are fastened 
to them, and then give them food, in a few days 
they will become tame and easy to break in. 
This you may then proceed to do, but gradually, 
pairing the one new to the work with one who 
knows it — for they learn to obey most easily 
through imitation. You should begin on level 
ground, and without a plough, then with a light 
one, and the first land ploughed should be sand or 
3 soft soil. Draught oxen should similarly be trained 
by making them draw in the first instance empty 
wagons — if possible through a village or a town 
where the frequent creakings and variety of objects 
rapidly accustom them to these things, and pre- 
pare them for useful work. Again if you put a 
draught ox on the right side, you must not keep 
him persistently in that position, for if he is left- 
hand and right-hand ox by turns, the change is 
a rest to him when he is distressed by being too 

^ Furcae. According to Plutarch (Coriol., 24, and Quaest. 
Rom., 70) the furca was a fork-shaped piece of wood by 
which the pole was supported {^vkov afid^rjg <^ rbv pvfibv vTrepei- 
dovmv). It was shaped like the letter A, and was used for the 
punishment of slaves. The neck was inserted at the fork and 
the arms tied to the instrument. Nero, when in hiding, was 
told that the Senate had ordered him to be punished 7?tore 
matorum, which meant nudi kominis cervicem insert furcae 
corpus virgis ad necevi caedi (Sueton., Nero, 49): "To be 
stripped naked, his neck put in the furca, and to be beaten to 
death with rods." He then committed suicide ! 

Vergil (Georg., ill, 166) puts the necks of his oxen into 
** loose collars of pliant osier," as a preliminary to breaking 
them in. 



I] DOGS AND FOUR-FOOTED STOCK 59 

4 long on either side. Where the soil is light, as 
in Campania — for there they do not plough with 
heavy oxen but with cows or asses — you may the 
more easily put them to a light plough, to the 
mills, or to any carting there may be on the estate 
itself. For the latter purpose some people use 
young asses, others cows and mules — the choice de- 
pending on the pasturage available, for it costs less 
to keep an ass than a cow, though the latter is more 

5 profitable in itself. 
In this matter, the farmer has to consider the 

surface nature of his land. Where it is hilly and 
•iff, he must get draught animals of greater 
_trength, and preferably such as may be themselves 
profitable while doing the same amount of work. 



CHAPTER XXI 

OF DOGS AND FOUR-FOOTED STOCK 

It is better to keep a few fine and active dogs than 
many. These should be trained to watch by night 
and to sleep shut up during the day. What is to 
be done' with four-footed stock not broken to harness 

* De indomitis . . . faciundum. This looks like the heading 
of a section which has strayed. In the Latin *' table of con- 
tents" (certainly not by Varro as it stands, for Idus Augustae 
are there mentioned, and the month Sextilis was not called 



6o VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

and with cattle? If meadow-land form part of the 
farm and a farmer owns no cattle of his own, he 
must dispose of the pasturage, and graze and stable 
other people's cattle on his farm. 



CHAPTER XXII 

OF INSTRUMENTS OF PRODUCTION (MUTE) 

1 Concerning the other mute instruments of produc- 
tion — baskets, casks, etc., the following rules are 
to be laid down : nothing should be bought which 
can be grown on the farm and made by the house- 
hold. Under this head come mainly things made of 
osiers and the wood the country supplies. Such as 
baskets, frails, threshing sleighs, stakes,^ and rakes, 
as well as things made ofhemp, flax, reeds, palm ^ and 
bull-rushes, such as wagon ropes, bands, and mats. 

2 Things which cannot be got from the farm will 
not diminish your profit much by their cost if in 

Augustus before 27 B.C., whilst this book was written 36 B.C.) 
after De Canibus comes Si prata sunt in fundo^ pecus non est^ 
quid sit faciendum. 

^ Valli. I have translated "stakes" — the usual meaning 
of the word — though one suspects that Pontedera is right in 
making it a diminutive of vannus (a winnowing fan) on the 
analogy of catella from catena, homullus from homo {homon- 
lus)y villum from vinum, etc. Diminutives were a marked 
feature of Vulgar Latin. 

^ Palms. Columella (v, 5, 15) speaks of palmeae tegetes 
used for sheltering the vines. These " mats " were probably 
made of vine stalks. 



I 



1 INSTRUMENTS OF PRODUCTION 6i 

uying you consider usefulness more than beauty, 
especially if you are careful to choose a market near 
at hand where they can be had both good and 
cheap. Of these different implements the choice 
and number depend on the size of the farm, for 

3 more are needed if it be of wide extent. Thus Cato, 
said Stolo, first takes as an example a farm of a 
certain size, and then writes about such a one: 
that the man who cultivates an olive plantation of 

40 iugera should equip it with five complete sets 
j: apparatus for making oil,^ which he enumerates 
in detail. Thus: coppers, pitchers, a pot with three 
Douts,'' etc., all of bronze: next, implements of wood 
-iiid iron, such as three large wagons, six ploughs 
I with their ploughshares, four crates for manure, etc. 
He mentions, too, the kind and number of iron tools 
1 needed, as eight iron forks, the same number of 
hoes, half as many shovels, etc. 

4 He also gives another prescription for the equip- 
ment of a vineyard, stating that if it consists of 100 

igera it should have three wine presses with all 

' Vasa olearia^ etc. From a comparison with Cato (De 
K. R., 10 and 12) it seems clear that five "vessels" of each 
kind are here meant, for Cato (12, i) mentions five presses, 
five suculae, ^sq Junes lorei, and so on. 

' Nassitema. Usually derived from mwwwand ter, a vessel 
iwth three noses (spouts or handles). Juvenal, v, 47, speaks 
of a cup with four "noses," most probably handles. It may 
be that the word has no connection either with nasum or ter. 
A gloss of Festus has nassitema est genus vasts aquarii ausati 
et patentisy a wide vessel for carrying water having a handle 
(or handles). 



62 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

accessories, casks with their lids to hold 800 
cullei, twenty tubs to hold grapes, twenty to hold 
corn, and other things of the same kind. Fewer of 
these are certainly recommended by other writers, 
but I think that Cato set down so large a number of 
cullei that the farmer might not be compelled to sell 
his wine every year. For old wines fetch more than 
new, and the same wine more at one time than 

5 another. He also writes at great length about the 
different kinds of tools, their nature and number, 
mentioning knives, shovels, harrows, etc., of which 
some kinds include several sorts. For example, 
knives: we are told by the same author that forty 
pruning knives are needed for the vines, five small 
knives for cutting string, etc., three for pruning trees 
and ten for clearing brambles. So much for this 
point. 

6 Said Scrofa: The owner should have an invent- 
ory of all the implements and furniture of the farm 
— one copy at the farm, the other in town; while 
the bailiff should keep all the things mentioned in 
the inventory each in its proper place at the farm- 
house. Those which cannot be kept under lock 
and key should be placed in as conspicuous a posi- 
tion as possible — more especially those which are 
employed only occasionally, such as the baskets, 
etc., used at the vintage. For what is seen every 
day runs less risk from the thief. 



I] ON CROPS 63 



CHAPTER XXIII 

ON CROPS 

I Agrasius went on; Since we now have discussed 
the first two sections of our four-fold division, that, 
namely (i) which concerns the farm itself, and (2) 

! the instruments of its cultivation, I am now waiting 
for the third section. 

Well, answered Scrofa, as I conceive the pro- 
duce of the farm to mean useful products sown 
nd grown on it, two matters remain for considera- 
m — what are the best things to sow, and which 
e the best places to sow them in. For one soil is 
.T»aitable for grass, another for corn, another for wine 
or for oil. The same may be said of crops which 
serve as fodder, which includes ocimum,^ mixed 
grain (cut when green), vetch, lucerne, clover 
(snail-clover) and lupins. For it is not everything 
that can properly be sown on rich land, nor is 
nothing to be sown on poor land, for it is better to 
plant crops that do not need much nutriment on the 
thinner soil; such are clover and all leguminous 
plants with the exception of chick peas — for they, 
too, come under the heading of leguminous plants, 
being plucked from the ground, not cut. And these 
plants are called legumina, because leguntur — they 

' arc plucked. In rich land it is better to sow what 

' Ocimum, farrafro. For Varro's definition of these words, 
cf. cap. xxxi, %% 4 and 5, of this book. 



64 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

needs more nourishment, cabbage, for instance, or 
wheat, rye, or flax. Some things should be sown 
with a view^ not so much to present profit as to 
next year's crop, because when cut down and left 
there they improve the soil. Thus lupins, before 
they produce many pods — and sometimes bean- 
stalks, if the podding stage be not so far advanced 
that it is profitable to pull the beans — are usually 
ploughed into poor land for manure. 

4 We must not either, when we come to plant, 
neglect the claims of those things which bring profit 
through the pleasure they afford, as, for example, 
what are called "orchards " and " flower gardens"; 
or again of those things which, without contribut- 
ing to man's food or appealing to his perception of, 
and pleasure in the beautiful are yet inseparable from 
the productiveness of the farm. So you must choose 

5 a place suitable for beds of willows and reeds and 
other plants which require moisture, and, on the 
other hand, a place for corn crops, and especially for 
beans and other things also which suit a dry dis- 
trict. In the same way you must sow some things 
where there is shade, as, for instance, wild aspara- 
gus,^ because the cultivated variety (which the wild 

1 Prospicientem. In Imitation of the common Greek con- 
struction, (TTrapreov tan . . . airoaKOiTovvTa. 

^ Corruda seems to be wild asparagus. Cf. Cato, R. R., 
vi, 3: Ibi corrudam serito unde asparagi fiant\ and Pliny, 
N. H., xix, 8: Fndicavimus et corrudam. Hunc enim intellego 
silvestrem asparagum. Pliny also states that corruda becomes 
asparagus. 



I] ON CROPS 65 

sort becomes) loves shade, and in sunny places you 
must sow violets and make gardens, for their growth 
jpends on sunlight. And so for other things. And 
in one place you must plant a shrubbery, so as 
to have osiers for plaiting such things as wicker 
baskets, winnowing fans,* and hurdles; in another 
you may plant and grow a wood for timber, [in 
5 another] a wood where you may catch birds; in 
another you should grow hemp, flax, rushes, es- 
parto grass — for weaving shoes for the oxen and 
making string, cords, and ropes. Some places, in- 
ced, are suitable for sowing more than one thing 
at once. Thus, in newly planted orchards, when 
the seeds have been sown at proper intervals and 
the saplings planted in rows, in the first years before 
the roots can go far, some people sow garden 
flowers, others other things ; but when the trees 
have grown strong they do not do so, for fear of 
damaging the roots. 

Said Stolo: In this connection what Cato writes 
about crops seems good — that heavy and fertile soil, 
if it be without trees, should be sown with corn ; 
while if the same is cold, it is best to sow on it 
turnips, radishes, millet, and panic. 

* Vallus or vallos. Cf. note on xxii, i. 



66 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER XXIV 

OF OLIVES, AND TREE PLANTING 

1 He states also that in heavy and hot land, the olive' 
for pickling, the "radius major," ^ the Sallentine, 
the orchis,' the ' * posea," the Sergian, the Colminian, 
the "waxy," should be planted — and of all these 
varieties you should choose that which enjoys the 
best local reputation. For an olive plantation no land 
is at all suitable that does not face the west wind and 

2 get plenty of sun. In comparatively cold and poor 
soil the Licinian olive should be sown. If you put 
it in heavy or warm land, the hostus * (yield) becomes 
worthless, and the tree dies from its luxuriant bear- 

3 ing, and is infested by red moss. By hostus is 
meant the amount of oil returned at each * * making, " 
by "making" the amount of olives treated at one 
time — which some place at i6o modii, others 
bring as low as 120, the number depending on the 
size and number of receptacles used in making the 

^ Oleam conditaneam, etc. In Italy, then, as now, there 
were many varieties of olive. In 1788 Giovanni Presta pub- 
lished a memoir ' ' on the sixty-two samples of different olives 
presented to Ferdinand IV, King of the Two Sicilies." 

^ Radius. The long shuttle-shaped kind. 

' Orchis. The oval olive. Posea (Pliny, pausea). The bitter 
kind. 

Presta thought that many of these names were traceable in 
Italian, as for instance ^awj^a, lta\ia.n Pasola ; Licinia^ Italian 
Risciolay etc. 

* Hostus no doubt = haustus, draught. 



I] OF VINES 67 

oil. As for Cato's statement that elms and poplars 
should be planted round the farm to provide leaves 
for the sheep and cattle, and timber for use on the 
form (this, however, is not necessary on all farms, 
nor where it is so are leaves the chief object) they 
may usefully be placed on the north side, as they 
do not then cut off the sunlight. 

Scrofa added on the same authority that if the 

place be damp you should plant there shoots of 

poplar trees and make a reed plantation. It is first 

dug with a large spade, and then the eyes of the 

reed' are planted at intervals of three feet [and with 

'lem wild asparagus, that the garden variety may 

suit from it]. Both asparagus and reeds need 

-etty much the same kind of treatment. Osiers 

should be planted round the reed bed, to provide 

material for tying up the vines. 



CHAPTER XXV 

OF VINES 

As to the kind of place in which to plant vines you 
must observe the following rules. The best and 

• Aptam esse, etc. I have inserted "and with them wild 
asparai^s," etc., from Cato, 6, 3. The construction requires 
something to be added, and the sense this. Palladlus, writing 
about reed beds (iii, 23), says : " Amongst these you may also 
scatter asparagus seeds ... for asparagus is grown and burnt 
in the same way as reeds. *^ 



68 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

sunniest situation for wine growing should be kept 
for the small Aminean variety, the double Eugenean, 
and the small yellow grape. When the land is 
heavy or cold the larger Aminean, Murgentine, 
Apician, or Lucanian should be planted. The other 
kinds, and especially the common ' black grape, suit 
any sort of land. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

OF VINEYARDS 

In every vineyard great care is taken that the sup- 
ports of the vines be protected towards the north, 
and if live cypresses are planted to serve as vine- 
props in alternate rows with the vines, they are not 
allowed to grow higher than ordinary supports, nor 
are the vines planted close to them, for vine and 
cypress hate each other.' 

^ Miscellas. Cf. Hesychius : McV/ctXXog' tvTfkr\Q xai fiiXag 
divoQ. 

"^ Et si cupressos. It is strange that live cypresses should 
be used as supports for vines when there is an antipathy 
between the two plants. Perhaps Varro's statement ends 
with patiantur (or patiuntur), and a grammaticus ^ remember- 
ing the passage of Varro (i, i6, 6), where the violent dislike 
of the vine for cabbage {plus) is mentioned, added, as a note, 
neque propter olus, etc. , which became neque propter eos^ etc. 

It is strange also that no other ancient v/riter has mentioned 
the use of live cypresses as supports, though Columella (iv, 
26, i) speaks of the tapering prop made of laurel, juniper, 
or cypress. 



I] OF TIMES AND SEASONS 69 

Said Agrius to Fundanius: I am afraid the 
temple-keeper will be here before our friend gets 
to the fourth act. I am waiting for the vintage. 
Don't be afraid, said Scrofa, but get ready the 
baskets and the urn.' 



CHAPTER XXVII 

OF TIMES AND SEASONS 

Now we have two measures of time: the year 
created by the sun's annual revolution, and the 
month which the revolving moon determines. I 
will first speak of the sun. Its annual course is, to 
begin with, roughly divided into four parts of about 
*hree months each, or more accurately into eight 
: a month and a half: into four, for its divisions 
are spring, summer, autumn, and winter. 

As to the spring sowing, the unploughed land 
must first be broken up, so that weeds which have 
sprung up in it may be uprooted before any seed 
can fall, and at the same time the clods must be made 
better able to absorb the rainfall by being baked 
by the sun, and, so loosened, made easier to work. 
It should be ploughed at least twice, or, better still, 
three times. In summer the harvest is to be reaped ; 
in autumn, during the dry weather, the vintage to 
be made; then is the best time for treating your 

' Uma. Vessel holding half an amphora^ i.e., about three 
and a half gallons. 



70 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. ;| 

woods— the trees to be cut close to the ground, butj 
the roots must be dug as soon as the first rain* 
have fallen, that no new shoots may spring froi 
them. In winter the trees are to be pruned only at 
times whenas their bark is free from rime and ice 
after rain. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

OF DIVISIONS OF THE YEAR 

1 The first day of spring occurs when the sun is 
Aquarius, of summer in Taurus, of autumn ii 
Leo, and of winter in Scorpio. Now, as the fin 
day of the four seasons is the twenty-third aftei 
the successive entry of the sun into each of these 
signs, it results that spring has 91 days, summer 94, 
autumn 91, and winter 89. These periods reduced 
to our modern civil calendar make the first days of 
spring date from the 7th of February, of summer 
from the 9th of May, of autumn from the nth of 

2 August, and of winter from the loth of November. 
With the more minute division certain dates must 
be taken into account, and these seasons are 
divided into eight parts: (i) from the time when 
Favonius begins to blow to the vernal equinox, 
45 days; (2) from then to the risingof the Vergiliae 
(Pleiads), 44; (3) from this to the solstice, 48; 

(4) thence to the rising of the Dog Star, 27; 

(5) next to the autumnal equinox, 67 ; (6) thence 



I] OF THE FIRST DIVISION 71 

to the setting of the Pleiads, 32; (7) from this 
date to the winter solstice, 57 ; and (8) thence to the 
blowing of Favonius again, 45. 



CHAPTER XXIX 

OF THE FIRST DIVISION 

1 In the first interval — between the time when 
Favonius begins to blow and the vernal equinox — 
the following things should be done: Seed beds of 
every kind should be sown, the small trees which 
support the vines pruned, the meadows manured, 
the roots of the vines cleared, the outcropping roots 
cut off, the meadows weeded, willow beds planted, 
corn-lands hoed. Seges (corn-land) means land 
which has been ploughed and sown, arvum 
(plough-land) that which has been ploughed but 
not yet sown; fallow-land,* land which has been 
sown before it is ploughed and sown again (in the 

2 third year). The term proscindere (to cleave) is 
used of the first ploughing, offringere (to break 
up) of the second — for big clods are thrown up, as 
arule, by the first ploughing ; when land is ploughed 
the second time they call it ''breaking it up." At 
the third ploughing, when the seed has been cast, 

' Novalis ager. The word indicates two kinds of land: 
(i) unbroken grass-land (Columella, vi, Praef.); (2) land that 
was tilled and allowed to rest alternately. Cf. Varro, L. L., 
V, cap. 4 : Contra qui intermiltitur {ager) a novando novalis. 



72 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

oxen are said to '^furrow" when by means of 
small planks attached to the ploughshare they cover 
the corn that has been sown on the ridges, and 
at the same time cleave trenches to carry off the 
rain-water. Some people who do not own such 
broad acres — as in the case of Apulian and similar 
farms — then usually break up any great clods lef: 
on the ridges by means of hoers. When the plough 
makes a gap, a channel, with the share^ it is called a 
furrow. That which is between two furrows — the 
raised earth — is called a ridge {pored), because that 
part of the corn-land ^' casts iovXh''' {porricit) the 
corn. In the same way, too, when giving the 
entrails to the gods, they used the term porricere 
(to cast forth). 



CHAPTER XXX 

THE SECOND PERIOD 

In the second period — between the vernal equinox 
and the rising of the Pleiads — the following is to 
be done : the corn-lands to be weeded — that is, the 
weeds cleaned from them; oxen to do the first 
ploughing, willows to be cut, the meadows fenced. 
Such things as should have been done before and 
are. not quite finished must be done now, be- 
fore they (the plants) begin to put forth buds and 
flowers, because if deciduous plants have begun to 



THE THIRD PERIOD 73 

blossom/ before planting, they are from that mo- 
ment unfit for planting. The olive must be planted 
and pruned here and there. 



CHAPTER XXXI 

THE THIRD PERIOD 

In the third period — between the rising of the 
Pleiads and the summer solstice — the following 
things should be done: dig or plough round the 
young vines, then hoe, that is, break the soil, to 
get rid of all clods. People use the word occare (to 
hoe), because by hoeing they destroy {occidunt) the 
clods. The vines must be ** stopped," but by a man 
who knows his work, as this is an operation of 
eater importance than pruning. It is to be per- 
lormed on the vine, not on the tree. ''Stopping" 
means pinching off from the rod all but two, or occa- 
sionally three, of the strongest shoots that spring 
from it, lest, if all be left on, the vine-rod should 
be unable to furnish sufficient sap. Accordingly, 
the vine nursery, when the vine first comes up 
om the ground it is usual to cut it entirely back, 
m order that on coming up again it may have a 
onger stem, and greater power to produce shoots. 
1 or a poor stem is barren from its weakness, and 

Si quae folia, etc. Ci. Geoponica, iii, 5 : dr)\ov 6vroi' wf 
I fVTov rrpiv i^oidijaai irpbc pXaarrjaiv iiKTiKov ianv tig ipvuiav. 
"ly yip p\a<rri}9av Uwa^ Swriatrai ^ptitaOau 



74 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

incapable of producing the vine-shoot, which is 
called when comparatively small flagellus, and 
when larger and already beginning to bear grapes 
a palma. The first word flagelhis ^ is derived by 
changing a single letter from flatus (the ^' blowing 
of the wind "), thus flabellum becomes flagellum. 
The latter, the palma, since it is a shoot destined 
to bear {parere) grapes, seems first to have been 
pronounced parilema, from the word parere, to 
beget, then by a common change of letter began 

4 to be called palma. On the other side it bears a 
tendril, which is a vine-twig twisted like a curl. 
It is by these tendrils that the vine grips that along 
which it crawls, in order to reach a place, from 
which word (capere) it is called capreolus. 

All fodder must be cut, first ocinum., th^n farrago, 
then vetches, and lastly hay. Ocinum is derived 
from the Greek word oixewj, which means '' quickly." 
The same etymology applies to the garden ocimum 
{basil). It is further called ocinum, because it 
speedily purges cattle, and is given to them for 

5 that purpose. It is cut green from a bean-crop 
before it produces pods. On the other hand it may 
be that when barley, vetch, and leguminous plants 
were sown mixed together, they were c3\\Q,d.ferrago, 

^ Flagello. One of Varro's absurd etymologies. The word 
is derived of course from flagrum, and means a "switch." 
Servius must have had Varro's derivation in mind when 
commenting on Vergil, Georg., ii, 299; he defines Jlagella as 
"the highest parts of trees so called because they have to 
stand many gusts {flatus) of wind." 



i] THE FOURTH PERIOD 75 

from the fact that they were cut green for fodder 
from the field with a knife {ferro), or farrago be- 
cause it was first made from a crop of spelt {far). 
With it horses and other beasts of burden are 
purged and fattened in spring time. Vetch {vicia) 
is derived from vincire (to bind), which also, like 
the vine, has tendrils, by means of which, as it 
creeps upwards to attach itself to a lupin's stalk 
or that of some other plant, it binds the latter. 

If you have meadows to be irrigated you should 

do it as soon as you have got in the hay. In the 

dry season water must be given in the evening to 

♦he grafted fruit. These may have been called fruit 

poma) from the fact that they need drink {potus). 



CHAPTER XXXII 

THE FOURTH PERIOD 

N* the fourth period, between the summer solstice 
.nd the rising of the Dog Star, most people get in 
the harvest, for they say that corn is fifteen days 
in its sheath, flowers in fifteen, and in fifteen be- 
comes dry, being then ripe. You must now finish 
off your ploughing, which is the more effective the 
hotter the ground when it is done. After the open- 
ing up of the earth by the first ploughing, it must 
be broken up by the second, that the clods may be 
destroyed, for at the first only big clods are cloven 
'^ut of the earth. 



76 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

You must now sow vetch, lentils, chick-peas, the 
bitter vetch, and other plants which some call 
leguminay others, as some Gallic farmers, legarica^ 
both words being derived from legere (to gather), 
because these are not cut, but '* gathered" by 
plucking. 

You must hoe your old vineyards a second time, 
the new ones a third, if by that time there are any 
clods remaining. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 

THE FIFTH PERIOD 

In the fifth period, between the rising of the Dog 
Star and the autumnal equinox, the straw must 
be cut down and stacked, the second ploughing 
done, the trees cleared of superfluous leaves, and 
the second crop cut on the meadows which are 
irrigated. 



CHAPTER XXXIV 

THE SIXTH PERIOD 

I In the sixth period, our authors state, sowing 

should be begun at the autumnal equinox, and 

may go on for ninety-one days; but after the winter 

'^ solstice you should not sow unless compelled by 



I] THE SEVENTH PERIOD 77 

necessity — and this makes such a difference that 

plants which come up in seven days if sown before 

I the solstice, hardly come up in forty if sown 

! later. And they are of opinion that you should not 

• begin before the equinox, because, if bad weather 

sets in, the seeds generally rot. Beans are best 

2 sown at the time of the setting of the Pleiads; while 

between the autumnal equinox and the setting of the 

Pleiads, your grapes must be picked and the vintage 

I made. Then one must begin to prune the vines and 

propagate, and plant fruit trees. In some districts, 

where the hard frosts set in comparatively early, it 

is better to do these things in the spring-time. 



CHAPTER XXXV 

THE SEVENTH PERIOD 

N* the seventh period, between the setting of the 
Pleiads and the winter solstice, the following things 
are to be done, we are told. 

Plant lilies and crocus. 

To form a rose-plantation take a plant which has 
already' struck root, and cut the stem, beginning 
at the root, into slips a palm-breadth long, then 

' Quae iam egit, etc. Cf. Geoponica, xi, 18. "Others take 
them (rose trees) up with the roots, then cut into three-inch 
lengths the roots and what has grown from them, and plant 
the cuttings at a distance of a cubit from one another." 



78 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

cover them with earth and transplant them when 
they too have made a living root. It is not good to 
make violet beds on a farm, because the earth must 
be raised for them, and small mounds are thus 
necessarily produced which are washed away by 
artificial watering and by rain storms, and so im- 
poverish the soil. 
2 From the time when Favonius begins to blow 
until the rising of Arcturus, you may properly 
transplant serpillum (wild thyme), so called from 
its creeping (serpere). 

New ditches must be dug, the old ones cleared 
out, the vines and their supporting trees pruned — 
provided that, like most operations of this kind, 
they be not done within fifteen days after or before 
the winter solstice — though some plants, such as 
elms, may properly be planted at that time. 



CHAPTER XXXVI 

THE EIGHTH PERIOD 

In the eighth period, that is, between the winter 
solstice and the time when Favonius begins to 
blow, the following things must be done. 

Any water standing on the cornfields must be 
drained off. If, however, it is a time of drought, 
and the land crumbles easily, it should be hoed. 

Prune the vines and their trees. 



I] MOON AND SIXFOLD DIVISION 79 

When no work can be done in the fields, every- 
thing that can be done in the farm-house should 
then be finished off in the dark winter dawns. It is 
good to have the rules which I have given written 
out and hung well in view in the farm-house, in 
order that all, and especially the bailiff, may know 
them. 



CHAPTER XXXVII 

THE MOON AND THE SIXFOLD DIVISION OF THE YEAR 

I Attention must be paid also to the days of the 

moon, which may be regarded as divided into 

i two series; the one in which the moon waxes 

[ from new to full, the other in which it wanes to 

1 new moon until it reaches the day dividing two 

; months when the moon is said to be ending and 

beginning. Hence, at Athens this day is called m 

KM na (old and new), whilst others term it rpiaucai. 

crtain farm operations are better done when the 

..lOon is waxing than when it is waning, while with 

li certain others the reverse is the case, as the cut- 

ng of corn and timber. Why, said Agrasius, 

1 practise those precepts not only when shearing 

^heep, but in the matter of my hair even (following 

my father in this), for fear of growing bald if I cut 

It when the moon is waxing. Said Agrius: In 

hat sense has the moon four periods, and what 

ifluence has such a division on farming? Did 



8o VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

you never hear in the country, answered Treme- 
lius, the expression, *' on the eighth day ^ before the 
moon begins to increase," and '^the eighth day 
before she begins to wane"? And that of those 
things which should be done when the moon is 
waxing, some are yet better done after than before 
the eighth day before full moon? And that whatever 
things it was good to do when the moon was waning 
were better done when that luminary had the least 
light? 

I have already spoken of the fourfold division 
observed in agriculture. 
4 There is, said Stolo, a second division of times 
connected in a certain way with the sun and 
moon, and this division is into six parts; for almost 
all fruits reach their full perfection only with the 
fifth phase, and then in the farm-house make the 
acquaintance of the jar or bushel, whence in the 
sixth phase they are produced for consumption. 

These are the six phases: (i) Initial prepara- 
tion; (2) sowing; (3) rearing; (4) gathering; (5) 
storing; (6) producing for use. For some things 
the preparations necessary are: trenching, digging' 

' Octavo Janam lunam, like octavo Kalendas, etc., with el- 
lipse of ante. 

Nigidius, according to Macrobius (Saturnalia, i, 9, 8) identi- 
fied lanus with Apollo (the Sun-God) and lana with Diana 
(the Moon-God). Tertullian (Ad Nat. ii, 15, p. 128) makes 
lana the goddess of the bow or the arch. 

Here there is no doubt but that the moon is meant, and 
many commentators (Gesner) have considered luna to be a 
gloss. 



I] OF MANURING 8i 

over the ground again, and making of furrows, as, 
for example, if you want a plantation or an orchard ; 
for others, you must plough or dig, as when the 
land is destined for corn ; again, for certain things 

5 the earth must be turned to a greater or less depth 
with the large spade, as some roots — cypress roots, 
for example — spread but little, while others, such 
as those of the plane-tree, spread more. Theo- 
phrastus, indeed, describes a plane-tree at Athens 

I in the Lyceum which, though it was even then but 
a young tree, had put out roots thirty-three cubits 

I long. 

In some cases after breaking up the land with 
oxen and plough, you have to plough a second 

i time also before sowing the seed. 

Then there is the preparation, if any has to be 
made, in the case of meadows — namely, fencing 
them in to keep the cattle out (and this is generally 
done when the pear-tree begins to bloom), and 
watering them in good time if they are to be 
watered. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 

OF MANURING 

f I Now we must consider what parts of the farm 

I should be manured, how it is to be done, and what 

kind of manure should be preferred; for there are 

i; G 



82 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

several kinds. Cassius writes that the best is that 
from birds, excepting marsh or water fowl. Of 
these he gives the preference to pigeons' dung, as 
being the warmest and as setting up fermentation 

2 in the soil. According to him it should be scat- 
tered on the ground like seed and not heaped up, as 
cattle dung is. I consider the best to be that taken 
from aviaries where field-fares and blackbirds 
are kept, for it is not only good for the soil, but 
supplies a fattening food for both cattle and swine. 
We find accordingly that the rent paid for aviaries 
is less in cases where the owner reserves this man- 
ure for the farm than where it is thrown in as part 
of the bargain, Cassius writes that next to pigeons' 
dung comes that of man, and in the third place 

3 that of goats, sheep, and asses; while horse dung 
is the worst of all, though it is good for corn-crops. 
For meadows it is perhaps the best of all manures, 
since it produces an abundant crop of grass, which 
is the case with the dung of all beasts of burden fed 
on barley. The dung-hill must be made close to 
the farm-house, so that the labour of carrying it 
away may be as small as possible. They say that 
no serpent breeds in the dung-hill if a piece of oak- 
wood ^ be driven into the middle of it. 

^ Rohusta materia = oak. wood. Cf. Pliny (N. H., xvii, 9: 
Palo e robore depacto fieri iubet Ita fore ne innascantur his 
serpentes. 



I] OF MODES OF PROPAGATION 83 
CHAPTER XXXIX 

OF MODES OF PROPAGATION 

I Now with regard to the second phase— the sowing 
— the following questions arise: What season of thej 
year is naturally adapted for the sowing of a given 
seed? For as in a farm the aspect of each part of iti^ 
is of importance, so also is the season at which 
each kind of plant grows with the least difficulty. 
Do we not see that some plants blossom in the 
spring, others in the winter, and that the same 

: things do not flower in autumn as in winter? And 
accordingly some things are sown, grafted, or 
mown earlier or later than others. We notice also 
that though most grafting is better done in the 
spring than in autumn, yet figs are grafted near the 
summer solstice and cherries in the heart of winter. 

3 And so, as there are four' ways in which plants are 
propagated — one natural, three artificial, namely, 
the transference of things with quick roots from soil 
to soil, the taking of shoots from a tree and planting 
them in the ground, and the grafting on one tree of 
a slip taken from another, we must examine in de- 
tail the conditions of time and place required for 
each of these operations. 

Quare cum semina, etc. This section is taken from Theo- 
irastus (H. P., ii, i), where, however, eight modes of pro- 
ion are given. 
Tergil (Georg., ii, 10-36), using Theophrastus or Varro, 
into greater detail. 



84 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 



CHAPTER XL 

SOWING, PLANTING, AND GRAFTING 

1 The primary seed which is the origin of reproduc- 
tion is of two kinds. It is either visible or invisible; 
invisible where the seeds are in the air (and Anaxa- 
goras,^ the natural philosopher, asserts that there 
are such), or, as Theophrastus writes, where water 
flowing on to the land carries them with it. 

The visible seeds, as they concern farmers, de- 
mand our close attention. Certain seeds, indeed, 
quite capable of reproducing their kind, are so small 
as to be seen with difficulty; as, for instance, those 
of the cypress — for the nuts which grow on this 
tree, small encapsulated balls, as it were, are not 

2 the true seed, which is inside them. Nature has 
given ^ the original seeds ; the others were discovered 
through experiments made by the farmer. The 
first seeds were those which unaided by him grew 
before they were planted ; the second, those which 
were got from the former, and which did not grow 

^ Anaxagoras. Theophrastus, citing Anaxagoras, assigns 
to him both these statements. Cf. Theophrastus (H. P., iii, 
1,4): 'Ava^ayopaq fitv tov dtpa Travrwv <pdaKU}v it\Hv oTripfxaTa kqi 
ravra ovyKaTacpepSiitva Tip vdaTi yevvdv rd (pvTa. 

What Aristotle called d/ioiofisprj (cf. Lucretius, i, 834) Anaxa- 
goras himself called airkp^iaTa tCjv xpvH-dTiov. 

^ Dedit Natura, etc. Cf. Vergil (Georg., ii, 20): 

Hos Natura modos primum dedit . . . 
Sunt alii quos ipse via sibi repperit usus 



I] SOWING, PLANTING, GRAFTING 85 

before they were planted. With regard to the 
original seeds we must be careful that they have not 
lost their virtue through age, that they are not 
mixed with others, and that they are not the wrong 
ones through resemblance to another sort. The 
cflfect of age on some things is so great as to change 
their nature ; for from old cabbage seed, they say, 
springs rape, and conversely from rape seed cab- 
bages. 

3 In propagating by the second ' means one must be 
careful to do so neither too early nor too late. The 
proper seasons, according to Theophrastus,^ are 
spring, autumn, and the rising of the Dog Star, 
though this does not apply to every soil and every 
kind of plant. In dry, poor, clayey soils, since they 
have the least moisture, spring should be chosen ; 
whereas in the case of good and rich land autumn is 
the best time, for in spring there is much wet. Some 
people fix about thirty days as the time within 
which each sowing should be made. 

4 The third kind of germ, which is transmitted 
from the tree to the earth by means of shoots, if 
planted in the soil, needs care in some instances 
that the severance from the parent tree be made at 
the proper time — that is before any flowers or buds 
appear— and that whatever shoots you transplant be, 
torn ' from the stock rather than broken off, for the ^ 

' Secunda setnina. Cf. xxxix, 3. 
* Theophrastus. Cf. Causa Plant., i, 7. 
Ut ea deplantes potiusquam defringas. The commentators 
give little help as to the meaning of deplantare. But I feel 



86 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

wider the heel of a shoot is the firmer it is, or else 
the more easily does it put forth roots. These shoots 
are quickly planted before the sap can dry up. In 
the case of olive cuttings see that the shoot be taken 
from a young branch, and cut off evenly at both 
ends; such shoots are called by some clavolae (little 
clubs), by others taleae^ and are cut about a foot 
long. 
5 With regard to the fourth kind of propagator 
which from one tree passes to another: attention 
must be paid both to the tree from which it is taken 
and that on which it is grafted, as well as to the 
time and to the manner in which the grafting is 
done; for oak will not take pear, and this is so, 
though the apple-tree will. This is a matter care- 
fully heeded by many who give ear to the harus- 
picesy^ for these declare that as many lightning 

sure that the translation is right. Planta means a sucker, or 
shoot, and this was torn from the tree so that some part of 
the mother plant came with it. Cf. Pliny, N. H., xvii, lo: 
Avulsique arhorihus stolones vixere. Quo in genere et cum 
perna sua avelluntur, partemque aliquam e matris quoque corpore 
auferunt secum fimhriato corpore. 

Vergil speaks of rending them off. Cf. Georg., il, 23. Hie 
plantas tenero abscindens de corpore matrum, and bids one (ii, 
300) not to break them off. . . . 

aut summas defringe ex arbore plantaSy 
tantus amor terrae. 

Columella uses the word in this sense, I think (ii, 2, 26, and 
iii, 10, 7). Theophrastus's word TrapacnrciQ (surculus) means 
literally a shoot ' * torn off. " 

^ Qui haruspices audiunt, etc. Pliny (N. H., xv, 15), who 



I] SOWING, PLANTING, GRAFTING 87 

flashes are produced at one stroke from that which 
has generated the flash as there are kinds of plants 
grafted on one tree. If you graft a pear-shoot on a 
wild pear-tree, no matter how good the latter the 
flavour will not be so good as if you had grafted it 
on one that is not wild. 

6 On whatever tree you graft, supposing it and the 
shoot to be grafted of the same kind — for example 

• if both be apple-trees — you should (if you hope for 
good fruit) so graft that the shoot is of a better kind 

alludes to this passage, does not, unfortunately, explain It. 
His words are: Neque omnia insita misceri fas est, sicut me 
spinas inseri quando fulgura expiari non queunt facile : quotque 
genera Insita fuerunt tot fulgura uno Ictu pronuntlantur. 
Again (xvli, 17) he states that religio fulgurum forbids the 
grafting of a mulberry on a branch. He mentions that all 
lightnings (II, 52) did not come "from the stars," but ex 
proxima atque turbidiore natura. Some trees were not struck, 
the laurel for Instance (II, 55). But why the grafting on 
certain trees should make them more likely to be struck no 
one explains. Perhaps the haruspices found that some trees 
invited the lightning more than others, and regarded the 
piercing of holes for grafting as a further Invitation. Seneca 
(Nat. Quaest., II, 40), discussing /w/wma (/m/;w^» he defines 
as concentrated /w/^^r), says that one sort goes out by the 
hole {foramen) through which It entered ; another kind does 
not, but shatters what It strikes. He speaks also (Nat. 
Quaest., I, i) of exhalation from the earth, some dry, some 
I ^gnibus concipiendls idonea. May the whole passage, then, 
' mean that an exhalation of this kind {illud quod fulmen 
concepit), on reaching a suitable tree, makes entry at each 
of the weak places (where the grafts have been made) and 
becomes so many fulmina? The libri fulgurales of the Etrus- 
can Haruspices would doubtless explain. 



88 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

than the tree to which it comes. There is a second 
way ' lately discovered of grafting tree upon tree, 
when the two are close together. 

You bring from the tree which you mean to graft 
to the one on which you intend to graft it a small 
branch, and in a bough of the second tree which 
has been cut off at the end and split, you insert the 
small branch which is now in contact with the place 
made ready for it, after the part which is to be in- 
side has been whittled on both sides with a knife. 
You must manage so that on the outside where it 
will see the sky the inserted branch may have its 
bark accurately adjusted to the bark of the bough 
which receives it, and you must take care that the 
top of the inserted branch stands straight up point- 
ing to the sky. The next year when it has taken 
well hold you cut it off from the other tree — that 
from which it was grafted. 



CHAPTER XLI 

GRAFTS AND CUTTINGS 

I With regard to the proper time of grafting we 
must note in particular those plants which used 

^ Est altera species. This method is described with his usual 
clearness by Columella (v, xi, 13). By it, he says, "any kind 
of shoot may be grafted on any kind of tree." The possibility 
of this is denied by modern horticulturists, but, according to 
Columella, it was a seven-years business, so that the method 
may not have been given a fair trial in modern times. 



I] GRAFTS AND CUTTINGS 89 

formerly to be grafted in spring, but are now 
grafted at the summer solstice as well — the fig-tree, 
for example, because of the looseness of its fibre and 
its consequent need of warmth. Hence in a cold 
district the impossibility of having plantations of 
fig-trees. 

Rain ^ is harmful to the freshly-made graft, for it 

2 quickly rots the small and delicate shoot, so the , 
best time for grafting them (fig-trees) is thought to 
be when the Dog Star rises. Again in the case of 
such plants as are of less soft a nature, they tie 
immediately above the graft some kind of vessel, 
from which water may drop slowly and prevent the 
shoot withering before it unites with the tree. The 
rind of the shoot must be kept intact, and in sharpen- 
ing it for insertion care must be taken not to lay 
bare the inner pulp. In order that the rains from 
without or excessive heat may not hurt it, it is well 
to smear the graft with clay and bind it up with a 

3 strip of bark. At the same time people cut a vine- 
shoot three days before grafting it, that the super- 
fluous moisture in it may run off before it is used, 
or they make an incision in the tree, which is to 
receive the shoot, a little below the point of insertion, 
that the superabundant moisture may there escape. 
On the other hand in the case of the fig-tree, pome- 

' Aqua recentt. Nearly the whole of this chapter is taken 
from Theophrastus (Caus. Plant., i, 6). But the latter dis- 
tinguishes between grafting and "budding " (^vo0OaXt(r/ioc), and 
it is to budding, according to him, that moisture is hostile 
lo i' \}Cutp Tif> fiiv iVotpOaXiafnli TroKifiiov r.r.X. 



90 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

granate, and others of their kind, which are of a 
comparatively dry habit, one grafts at once. In 
some cases the shoot to be transferred must be in 
bud — as is the case with fig-trees. 

4 Of these four methods of propagation, for slow- 
, growing things it is best to use cuttings, as is done 

in the case of fig plantations. For the true seed of 
the fig-tree is enclosed in the fig which we eat — 
tiny grains which owing to their small size can 
hardly produce a paltry sprout. For in general, all ^ 
things that are fine and dry are slow to grow, whilst 
things of looser tissue are also more fruitful — as 
female than male; and this rule holds good for 
plant?? also. Thus the fig, pomegranate, and vine, 

5 feminine in their softness, grow quickly — the palm, 
cypress and olive slowly; since in the matter of 
growth^ moist things are quicker than dry. So it 
pays better to plant cuttings from the fig orchard in 
nurseries, than to bury in the ground seeds from the 
fig: except indeed where one is forced to do the 
latter, as for instance if at any time one wants to 

^ Omnia enim minuta. From Theophrastus (Caus. Plant., 
i, 8), Td/i£vyd)0 irvKva koX ^ripd dvaav^rjra k.t.X. But 7ryKvd = not 
minuta, but densa. One is sometimes tempted to believe that 
varro, despite his long stay at Athens, was not a very good 
Greek scholar. ^ 

^ In hoc enim umidiora. One would have expected Varro 
to say that these plants were examples of the quicker growth 
shown by what was loose of fibre and moist than by what was 
close of fibre and dry. Cf. Theophrastus (/. c), IvavKorepa 
yap TO. 9r)X6a rutv appkvojv, vyportpa Kai navwrepa ttjv cpvaiv 
ovra. 



I] ON SOWING LUCERNE gij 

send, or send for, seeds across the sea ; for in that 
case a string is run through the ripe figs — such as 
we eat — and when dry they are packed up, and 
despatched where they are wanted, so that when 
planted in a nursery garden they may propagate 
their kind. 
6 It is in this way that Chian, Chalchidian, Lydian 
and African figs, and all the other kinds from over 
the sea have been brought to Italy. For a similar 
reason since the seed of the olive-tree is a stone, 
and a stem grows from it more slowly than from 
other plants, we therefore prefer to plant in nurseries 
the taleae (cuttings) which we have described. 



CHAPTER XLII 

ON SOWING LUCERNE 

You must be particularly careful not to sow seed 
on a soil that is either too dry or too sodden, but 
on well-tempered land. On land of this kind, say 
our authors, a peck and a half ^ of lucerne per iu- 
gerum is sufficient. In sowing it the seed must 
be scattered just as when one sows grass-seed or 
corn. 

Sesquimodium. The modius=\QTy nearly eight quarts = 
a peck. It is frequently mistranslated " bushel," which equals 
four pecks. 



92 I VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER XLIII 

CYTISUS 

Cytisus^ is sown in well-ploughed land, like 
cabbage seed. Thence it is transplanted and set at 
intervals of a foot and a half ; or else small branches 
are taken from the more hardened plant, and are 
set out and planted in the same way. 



CHAPTER XLIV 

OF CROPS 

1 Beans are sown four pecks to the iugeruniy wheat 
five, barley six, and spelt ten, but in some places it 
may be a little more or less — more if the soil be 
rich, less if poor. So it will be your practice to 
adopt the quantity which is customary in your 
district, as the influence of the kind of soil in a 
district is so great that the same seed yields in some 
places ten-fold, in others fifteen-fold, as in several 

2 parts of Etruria. In Italy too, in the country about 
Sybaris, they say that the usual yield is a hundred 
fold, and in Syria near Gadara, and in Africa in 

^ Cytisum, the more usual form of which is Cytisus^ was, 
according to Keightley (" Flora Virgiliana," p. 381), the name 
given to two different plants, (i) the laburnum, and (2) the 
arborescent lucerne. 



I] OF CROPS 93 

Byzacium ' from one peck the return is likewise a 
hundred pecks. It is, besides, of much moment 
whether you sow in virgin soil, or in such as has 
been sown every year (which is called restibilis), or 
in that which has occasionally lain fallow.^ 

3 Agrius remarked to him that in Olynthia the 
fields were said to be sown yearly, but in such a 
way as to produce richer crops every third year. 
Licinius said: Land ought to be left fallow every 
other year, or else be sown a little more lightly, 
that is, in a manner less exhausting to the soil. 

We will now discuss the third phase, said Agrius, 

4 that is the rearing and nurture of plants. Stolo 
answered. All plants that are born on a farm 
grow in the ground, conceive on attaining puberty, 
and, becoming pregnant, when they have reached 

^ Ad Byzacium. Byzacium was the name of a tract of 
country, 250 miles in circumference, on the north coast of 
\frica, which was inhabited by Liby-Phoenicians. Its chief 
owns were Leptis, Adrumetum, Ruspina, and Thapsus. 
Pliny (N. H., v, 4) mentions this extraordinary fertility. 
Solinus Polyhistor (cap. xxx) alludes to it : In agro Byzaceno^ 

ui patet passuum ducentis vel amplius milihus^ glehis ita 
praepinguibus ut iacta ibi semina cum incremento centesimae 
frugis renascantur. He quotes Varro a little before this pass- 
age, so he may have read him. Usually he annexes Pliny's 
:;icts without acknowledgement ! 

' Invetvacto. Vervactum = land which has been ploughed 
;ind allowed to lie fallow. Sometimes it means land ploughed 
for the first time. Cf. Servius on Georg., i, 50 {At prius igno- 
turn Jerro quam scindimus aequor), i.e., antequam faciamus 

•ttvactum. Cf. Gottlob Schneider's excellent note on this 
word vetvactum in his index to the agronomes. 



94 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

their term bring forth fruits, or the ear, etc. And 
the seed returns whence it came. So if you pluck 
off a blossom or unripe pear, or anything else of 
the kind, nothing grows again in that same place 
the same year, for it is impossible for the same 
thing to have two pregnancies ^ in one year. For 
just as women have fixed times for parturition, so 
too do trees and the fruits of the earth. 



CHAPTER XLV 

OF THE GROWTH OF PLANTS 

1 Barley generally comes up first in seven days, 
wheat a little later; leguminous plants in about 
four or five days, with the exception of the bean, 
for it comes up a good deal later; millet, sesame, 
and other similar crops appear in about the same 
number of days, save when peculiarity of district or 
weather produces some defect which prevents this 
from happening. 

2 Plants of a delicate nature, which are raised in a 
nursery, should, if the climate be chilly, be covered 
during the winter with leaves or straw. If rains 
follow, see that there may be no stagnant water 
anywhere ; for frost is poison to the delicate roots. 

Plants do not grow equally in the same time 

^ Quodpraegnattones. Cf. Theophrastus (Caus. Plant., i, 14) : 
**Nor yet if you remove fruit or flower can the plant bring 
forth others, as it has not the time necessary for pregnancy. " 



I 



I] OF THE GROWTH OF PLANTS 95 



3 below and above the ground. For in autumn or 
winter the roots grow more below ground than do 

• the parts above, since they are protected and forced 
by the warmth of the earth, whilst above ground 
they are kept back ' by the more chilly atmosphere. 
And places in the woods, near which no sower has 
ever been, show this to be the case; for roots grow 
before that which springs from them, yet" roots 
go no further than where the sun's warmth reaches. 
The growth of the roots depends on two things: 
(i) The fact that nature gives greater extension to 
roots of one kind of wood than to those of another, 
and (2) that one kind of soil is more permeable 
than another. 

* Coguntur. Victorius found in the MSS. finguntur. Petrus 
Crescentius, a writer on agricultural subjects of the thirteenth 
century, who copied large portions of Varro inaccurately and 
with little understanding, has cinguntur. The passage of 
Theophrastus which Varro copied is : on to. /xkv dvu) KutXverai 
itd rbv TripiK akpa y^ruxphv ovra. Keil's coguntur translates 
wrnXvirai. Cinguntur (are surrounded) goes well with Thv nepi^ 
Upa. 

As Crescentius possibly had access to MSS. of earlier date 
than any we possess, and as the change from finguntur to 
cinguntur is much less than to coguntur^ I incline to the 
cinguntur o{ Crescentius, despite his frequent inaccuracy, and 
would translate "and are surrounded by a chillier atmosphere." 

' Nisi quo tepor venit solis. Pliny does not believe this. 
Cf. N. H., xvi, 31 : Quidam non aliius descendere radices quam 
solis calor tepefaciat, idque natura loci tenuioris crassiorisve 
dixere^ quodfalsum arbitror. 



96 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER XLVI 

OF THE HABITS OF PLANTS 

With regard to such matters, nature displays in 
plants many differences which are remarkable, as 
the fact that one should be able to tell the time of 
year from certain leaves, by their turning — as do 
the olive, the white poplar, and the willow. For 
when the leaves of these trees turn,^ we say that 
the summer solstice is past. Equally remarkable 
is what happens in the case of those flowers which 
are called heliotropia^ from the fact that in the morn- 
ing they face the rising sun, and follow its course 
to where it sets, ever turning towards it. 

CHAPTER XLVII 

OF the care of crops 

Plants that have been reared in the nursery from 
shoots, and whose sprouts are of a somewhat deli- 
cate nature — as the olive and fig — must have their 
tops protected each by two small boards which are 

^ Propter eorum verstiram. The "turning" of the leaves is 
in relation to the quarter of the heaven they turn to. Pliny, 
N. H., xviii, 28: Alia pa7te caelum respiciunt quam qua 
spectavere pridie\ and Theophrastus (quoted by Victorius) 
says : arpscpsiv yap doKovai rd vTrria neTcc Tpoirdg Qepivdg (Schneider 
has ^({ifiepivdg !) Kui tovt(^ yvcjpit^ovcriv on yeysvrjvrai rpoTrai, 



I I] OF GRAIN 97 

fixed ^ in the ground to the right and left of it, and 
the weeds must be pulled up. This must be done 
while they are green, for if they become dry they 
resist fiercely, and, instead of following the hand, 
quickly snap off. On the other hand, grass that is 
grown with a view to the hay harvest must not be 
pulled up while growing, nor even trodden on. So 
cattle and every kind of beast of burden, and even 
men, should be kept off a meadow. For the foot of 
man is perdition to grass, and makes the beginnings 
of a foot-path. 



CHAPTER XLVIII 

OF GRAIN 

I Now in the case of crops, that by which the stalk 
puts forth the grain is the ear. The latter, when 
entire,^ has in barley and wheat three parts closely 
connected — the grain, the husk, and the beard, and 
also the sheath, present when the ear first emerges. 
The solid body, the innermost part of the ear, is 

' Deligata. This, the best supported reading, seems to me 
to give no satisfactory sense. I have translated deligatis, 
though alligatis ad verticem is what one would expect. Ursinus 
considered deligata to be a gloss. Crescentius, however, ac- 
cording to Schneider, has integenda sunt binis tabelliSy dextra 
•it sinistra ligalis. 

^ Quae mutilala non est. Oats and spelt have no beard. 
Cicero in the De Amicitia (cap. xv) makes Cato say that the 
beard protects the grain from the bites of small birds. . 

H 




98 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

called the grain, its little envelope the husk, 
and the long slender needle (as it were) that pro- 
jects from the husk is called the beard (as if husk 
and beard formed the peaked' cap of the grain). 

2 The words '* beard '* and '' grain " are familiar to 
nearly every one, the word gluma (husk) to but 
few, for to my knowledge Ennius is the only 
writer who has used it, in his translation of the 
books of Euhemerus. The word {gluma) seems to 
be derived ixovsx gluhere (to strip), because the grain 
is stripped of its envelope. Accordingly they call 
by the same name the envelope of the fig which we 
eat. The beard (arista) is so called because it is 
the first to become dry {arescere\ the grain (granum) 
is from gerere (to bear), as corn is sown that the 
ear may bear not the husk or the beard, but the 
grain, just as the vine is planted that it may bear 
grapes, not leaves. Again the spica (ear), which 
the countryfolk, following an ancient tradition, call 
speca,^ seems to have been so called from spes (hope), 

3 for they sow in the hope that it will come. An ear 

^ Apex, the cap worn by the flamens and Salii. It was 
close-fitting, and from its centre a spike of olive wood stood 
up. Cf. Servius ad Aeneid, viii, 664: Jlamines in Capite hah- 
ebant pileum in quo erat brevis virga. The gluma, of course, is 
the cap proper, the arista the spike. It is strange that the 
obvious meaning of this passage should have escaped Schneider 
and all the commentators before him. 

^ Speca, a rustic development of the original speica. The 
short i normally became h in rustic Latin; as vea for via, 
mateola for matiola. 



I] OF GRAIN 99 

having no beard is called '' hornless,"* for the beard 
forms, as it were, the horns of the ear. When the 
latter are in process of formation, and are not yet 
quite visible, they lie hid, covered by a green en- 
velope which is called the sheath, like that in which 
a sword lies hidden.^ The upper extremity of the ear 
now ripe, which is less in size than the grain, is 
called frit\ that which lies at the lower extremity 
of the ear, at its junction with the highest part of 
the straw (likewise less than the grain) is called 



* Mutila. Caesar describing elks calls them mutiJae comi- 
bus, and Columella (vii, 3, 3) speaks of a mutilus aries. In 
vil, 6, 4, he distinguishes between a capella mutila and one 
muia. 

^ Gladium. Neuter, of course. Cf. Varro, 11. ix, 49 : quod 

dicUur a multis duobus modis hie dupondius et hoc dupondium, 

ut hoc gladium et hie gladius. 

' Frit and Urru. About these two words no one appears 

know anything, oppoq^ or oi'pa = the tail or rump. The 

iding of the MSS. is, however, urrucum and then conticu- 

rt, which may well have been urrucum cum conticuisset, 

rrucum might be for urrucum { = urruncum), and urruncum 

md for oppoyKov which means a "mountain top," urruncum 

ing thus the top of the straw. Frit is connected by Pont- 

iera with tppirruv, to shiver, to bristle. All (mine included) 

profitless guess-work, I am afraid. 



loo VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER XLIX 

THE HAY HARVEST 

1 Stolo finished speaking, and thinking that as no 
further questions were asked, nothing more was 
needed on the subject of the nutrition of plants, he 
said that he would proceed to discuss the getting 
in of the ripe crops. And, firstly, said he, re- 

- garding meadows reserved for hay, when grass has 
ceased growing and the heat begins to dry it up, it 
should be cut close with the scythe, and then tossed 
with forks until thoroughly dry. When it is quite 
dry it should be made into bundles and then carted 
to the homestead. Then any hay left on the mea- 
dows must be raked up, and the heap thus made 

2 added to the rest of the hay. That done, you must 
go over ^ the fields again, that is, cut with scythes 
whatever bits have been passed over by the mowers, 
leaving little tufts of grass on the surface. From 
this cutting (secari) I fancy that the word sicilire 
(to cut a second time) is derived. 

^ Sicilienda prata. Pliny (N. H., xviii, 28) defines the word 
in the same way : hoc est quae faenisices {foeniseces) praeteri- 
erunt secari^ adding, est enim in primis inutile enasci herbas 
sementaturas. 



i] OF REAPING loi 



CHAPTER L 

OF REAPING 

The term harvest, messis, is properly applied to 
such things as we measure (metimur)^ especially to 
corn — and from that word [metiri) it is derived. 
The corn harvest is got in three ways; one, as in 
Umbria, where they cut the straw close to the 
j ground and lay the sheaves as they are cut, on the 
p ground. When they have got a good number of 
j sheaves, they go over them again, and sheaf by 
sheaf they cut off the ears from the straw. The ears 
are thrown into a basket and sent to the threshing 
floor, the straw is left on the field to be taken away 
and stacked. In the second method of reaping, 
used, for instance, in Picenum, they have a curved ^ 
piece of wood with a small iron saw at the end. 
This grasps a bundle of ears, cuts them off, and. 
leaves the stalks standing in the field to be subse- 
quently cut close to the ground. The third method 
— adopted near Rome and in most places — is to cut 
the stalk, the top of which is held by the left hand, 

Incurvum bacillum. Pliny (N. H., xviii, 30) describes a 
horse-drawn corn-mower which may be this referred to by 
Varro : Valli praegrandes dentibus in margine infestis^ duabus 
rotis per segetem impelluntur; iumento in contrarium iuncto: 
Ha direptae in vallum cadunt spicae. Palladius (June II) de- 
scribes at greater length and more clearly a corn-cutter which 
was pushed by an ox. 



102 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

mid-way, and I fancy that the word harvest (messts) 
is derived from the word middle {medius). That 
part of the stalk below the hand which adheres to 
the ground is afterwards cut close to the earth, 
while that part which is attached to the ear is carried 
3 off in baskets to the threshing-floor; there it is 
separated in an uncovered place in full view {palam)^ 
whence perhaps its name palea (straw). Some 
people derive its name stramentum from stare (to 
stand) from which stamen is also derived; others 
from stratum (strewing), because it is strewn under 
cattle. When the crop is ripe it must be reaped ; 
and in regard to this it is said that one man's work 
for a day is roughly enough for about a iugerum^^ 
if the land be easy to work. The cut ears should be 
carried in baskets to the threshing-floor. 



CHAPTER LI 

THE THRESHING-FLOOR 

I The threshing-floor should be on raised ground, 
that the wind may blow through it; it should be of 
a size proportionate to that of the crop; round for 
choice, with the centre swelling up a little, so that 
in case of rain the water may not stand, but may 

^ In iugerum. This seems irrelevant, and the remainder 
of the chapter a vain repetition of what was said immediately 
before. 



I] THE THRESHING-FLOOR 103 

flow down out of the threshing-floor by the shortest 
possible way, and in a circle a straight line from 
the centre to the edge is always the shortest; it 
should be of solid earth, well rammed down, especi- 
ally if it is clay, lest the heat of summer crack ^ it, 
and grains of corn get lost in the fissures, letting 
in water and discovering holes for mice and ants. 
To prevent this people frequently drench it with 
amurca,^ as the latter is poison to weeds, ants, and 
I 2 moles. Some people, in order to keep it solid, streng- 
then the threshing-floor with stones or even pave it. 
Others, such as the Bagiennae,^ even roof their 
threshing-floors to protect them from storms, which 
are frequent in their country at harvest time. When 

' Paeminosa. Nonius Marcellus quotes this passage thus : 
Paeminosum, mali odoris: a paedore dictum. Varro de Re 
Rustica, lib. i: Solida terra pavita^ maxime si est argilla^ ne 
\\.\x paeminosa y in rimis eius grana oblitescanty where it is to 
Wc noticed that Nonius gives to paeminosa the sense of " foul," 
and has situ (by neglect) instead of aestu (which Victorius 
found in his "most faithful and ancient manuscript"). 

Taking Nonius's reading the translation is "lest it become 
foul through neglect," etc. 

Tlie word paeminosus is not found elsewhere. 

Keil's interpolation, si sit, seems unnecessary, ior paeminosa 
(Ablative) with area understood is quite in Varro's distressing 
manner. 

' Amurca {&fi6pyris)= the watery part of olives, distinct from 
the oil. 

* In Bagiennis. These are probably Pliny's Ffl:^«wt(N. H., 
iii, 20), a branch of the Celtic Caturiges settled in the moun- 
tainous parts of Liguria, where sudden storms do still arise 
in summer time. 



I04 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

the threshing-floor is without a roof and the cHmate 
is hot, shelters should be built near it to which the 
workmen may repair in the broiling noon-tide 
heat. 



CHAPTER LII 

OF THRESHING 

1 Ears of the finest and best crop should be taken to 
the threshing-floor and kept separate from the rest, 
so that the farmer may have the best possible seed. 
The ears are threshed on the threshing-floor. Some 
do this by means of yoked beasts and a threshing 
sleigh, which is made of a piece of wood roughened 
underneath with stones or iron, on which either the 
driver stands, or a large weight is placed. It is then 
drawn by the animals harnessed to it, and shakes 
the grains of corn from the ears. Or it is made of 
planks of wood furnished with teeth and little 
wheels, and is then called the '' Punic wain." A man 
must sit on it and drive the animals which draw it, 
as is the practice in Hither Spain and other places. 

2 With others the threshing is done by means of a 
herd of beasts which are driven on to the threshing- 
floor and are kept going by poles, the grains of 
corn are thus rubbed out of the ears by their hoofs. 
When the ears have been threshed they should be 
tossed up from the ground with winnowing baskets ^ 

' Vallis for vannulis. ■ The vannus was a kind of basket or 
sieve. Servius (ad Georg., i, i66, where he says Varro read 



I] THE GLEANING 105 

or winnowing shovels' when there is a gentle breeze 
blowing, so that the lighest part of them, called 
acus or palea (chaff), may be blown away outside 
the threshing-floor, while the heavy part, the grain, 
comes clean of chaff to the basket. 



CHAPTER LHI 

THE GLEANING 

.\'hen the harvest is over, you should sell'* the 
gleaning, or pull the stalks yourself; or else, if the 
ears be few and labour dear, they should be eaten 
down. For you must look to the main chance lest 
in this matter the cost exceed the return. 

alltis) defines it as a cribrum areale = 2i sieve used on the 
Lhreshing-flcx)r. It was used in the absence of wind (Colu- 
mella, ii, 21). 

* Ventilabrum was a winnowing shovel {tttvov) by which 
the corn was thrown up into the air across the wind. Win- 
nowing seems to have been done in the same way in Homer's 
as in Varro's time. Cf. Iliad, v, 499. 

' Venire. This is an instance of Varronlan ambiguity. It 
may mean (i) to be sold, (2) to come. 



io6 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 



CHAPTER LIV 

OF WINE-MAKING 

1 In the vineyards, when the grapes are ripe, you 
must proceed to the vintage, making up your mind 
first on the kind of grape and the part of the vine- 
yard with which you intend to begin. For the quick- 
ripening and the common kind, called black, ripen 
a good deal earlier than the others and should 
therefore be gathered before them, and the sunnier 
part of the plantation and vineyard ought to come 

2 down before other parts. During the vintage a good 
farmer not only gathers his bunches, he also selects 
them. He gathers for drinking, he selects for eat- 
ing. Accordingly, those gathered are taken off to 
the wine-yard^ to go thence into the empty cask; 
those selected are put into a separate basket to be 
transferred into small jars and then thrust into 
casks full of grape refuse; others to go down in a 
pitch-coated amphora into a tank, others to go up to 
a shelf in the larder. The stalks and skins of the 
grapes that have been trodden must be put under 
the press, that whatever ''must" remains in them 

3 may be squeezed out into the same vat. Some 
people, when the juice ceases to flow under the 
press, cut round the edge of the mass and press 
again, and what is squeezed out in the second 
operation is called circumcistcium. It is kept apart, 

^ Forum vinarium. Cf. Cato, xviii, 3. 



I] OLIVE PRODUCTS 107 

for it tastes of iron. The skins of the grapes are 
thrown into casks and water is added to them. It 
is then called lora^ an abbreviation for lota acina 
(watered grape-skins), and in winter is given in- 
stead of wine to the workmen. 



CHAPTER LV 

OLIVE PRODUCTS 

i I We now come to the olive plantation. Such olives 
as you can reach with the hand from the ground or 
from ladders ^ are better pulled than shaken from the 
tree ; for those which have been struck lose flesh and 
give less oil. Those which are picked by hand are 
better if gathered with the bare fingers, not with 
pincers, for the hardness of the latter not only 
- nips the berry but barks the branches as well, and 
leaves them unprotected against the frost. Those 
branches that cannot be reached by the hand should 
l)e beaten with a reed rather than a pole, for a heavy 
blow demands a doctor. The man who beats must 
not strike the olive directly, for often an olive so 
;>truck carries a green shoot away with it from the 
branch, in which case the fruit of the next year is 
lost ; and this is one of the chief reasons why they 

iy that every other year olive plantations bear no 
iit or a diminished crop. 
' Scalis, The Geoponica (ix, 17) recommend rpiyuva dva- 



io8 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

4 The olives go home the same two ways as do 
grapes; some to be eaten, others to be turned into 
a liquid, a lubricant for the outside as well as for 
the inside of the owner's body. And so it follows 
him to the baths ^ and the gymnasium. The latter 

5 kind of olives, from which oil is made, are generally 
piled up in heaps (one heap for each day), on 
shelves, to remain there until they become mod- 
erately soft, when they are taken down heap by 
heap in pails,^ in the order in which they were laid 
down, to the oil vessels and presses. The latter are 
mill-stones of a hard and rough stone used for 

6 crushing olives. If the olives gathered have re- 
mained too long in heaps they go soft through the 
heat, and the oil goes bad. And so if it should be 
impossible to make your oil in good time, you 
must air them by frequent stirring. 

7 From the olive we get two products (i) the oil, 
with which everybody is familar, and (2) amtirca, 
which (most people are unaware of its usefulness) 
we may see running from the oil-presses, not only 
blackening the earth, but, when there is much of it, 
rendering it barren : whereas this liquid, used in 
moderation, is of the greatest importance in farm- 

^ Balneas= public baths, balneum being a private bath — 
so Varro in the Lingua Latina. 

^ Per serias. I have translated the reading of the most 
ancient MS. as given by Victorius, viz., per sena, taking sena 
for sina (" pails," as sinum lactis, Columella, vii, 8, 2). Scaliger 
found always in Nonius senum not sinum^ and the change of 
i to e in rustic Latin has already been noted. 



I] GRANARIES 109 

ing, as well as in many other directions. It is com- 
monly poured round the roots of trees, especially 
olive trees, and wherever there are weeds. 



CHAPTER LVI 

OF STORING HAY 

Said Agrius to Stolo: I have been sitting for 
a long time in the farm-house, waiting, key in 
hand, for you to bring the produce home. Stolo 
answered. Well, here I am, coming to the 
threshold ; throw open the doors. 

To begin with, hay is better stored beneath a 
roof than in stacks, for so it makes sweeter fodder. 
This is proved by the fact that if you set both 
before cattle they eat the one in preference td the 
other. 



CHAPTER LVII 

GRANARIES 

Wheat should be stored in granaries raised above 
the ground, wind-swept from the east and north, 
ll^knd safe against any damp breeze that may blow 



no VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

"'* floor must be coated with a marble cement^ — failing 

2 that with clay mixed with corn chaff and amurca. 
As^ the latter keeps away mice and worms, and 
renders the grains of corn firmer and stronger, 
some people sprinkle the corn itself with it, add- 
ing about a quadrantal (seven gallons) to the 
thousand pecks. Different people, too, grate or 
sprinkle different substances on it, for example, 
Chalcidian or Carian chalk, or wormwood and the 
like. 

3 Some people use as granaries underground caves, ' 
called siros^ as is done in Cappadocia and Thrace, 
others wells, as in Hither Spain, and also in the 
Carthaginian and Oscan country. On the floor of 
these they spread straw, and are careful to prevent 
moisture or air from getting in, except when the 
corn is brought out for consumption. For where no 
air penetrates, there the weevil does not appear. 

iCorn thus stored keeps for even fifty years, millet 

Jfor more than a hundred. 

Some people build granaries on the farm raised 
high above ground, in Hither Spain and Africa for 
instance, so constructed that the wind may cool 

' Marmorato. Cement made of powdered white marble {opus 
alharium) was frequently used as a finishing coat for the inside 
walls of houses, etc. It was almost as hard as native marble. 
Pictures were often painted on it. 

"^ Quod mure7n. Keil's punctuation here seems bad. The 
sense is much Improved If a full stop Is placed after amurca, 
and a comma Instead of a full stop after firmiora — and so I 
have translated. 



I] STORING BEANS AND GRAPES iii 

them not only by blowing through windows at the 
sides, but also by blowing from the ground 
I upwards. 



CHAPTER LVIII 

OF STORING BEANS AND GRAPES 

Beans and other leguminous crops keep good for 
a very long time in olive jars when covered with a 
coating of ashes. 

Cato says that the Aminnean grape — both the 
smaller and larger variety — and the Apician are 
best stored in jars, and that they likewise keep well 
in sapa ^ and '* must," while the best for hanging are 
the Duracinae ^ and the Aminnean (Scantian). 

^ Sapa ( = ** must," unfermented wine) diminished in volume 
by boiling to f , §, or \ of its original bulk. Columella (xii, 19) 
describes the process at length, and says that the best sapa is 
that which has lost half its bulk. Pliny, however, calls this 
dejrutum (N. H., xiv, 9). 

The word is used unchanged in modern Italian; the saying 
dolce come la sapa being common in Florence. 

' Duracinas. Schneider thinks this word is connected with 
■lurare (to keep). A pure guess, unsupported by evidence! 
The Cii}paKivov of the Geoponica seems from the description to 
be the apricot (Geop., x, 13, i). 



112 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER LIX 

OF STORING APPLES 

1 Of apples the kinds for keeping are the small ^ and 
the large quince, the Scantian apple, the Scaudian, 
the ^^ small rounds" and those which used to be 
called ''sweet-wines," and now go by the name of 
*' honey-apples" ; ^ all keep well, it is thought, if laid 
on straw in a dry and cool place. And for this 
reason those who build storehouses for their fruit 
take care to put windows facing north, and to give 
free access to the wind from that quarter, adding, 
however, shutters, lest, if the wind blow persist- 
ently, the apples lose their juice and shrivel up. 

2 And for the same reason — for greater coolness — 
they do over the ceilings, walls, and floor with 
marble cement. Some people even have a dining 
table and couches made ready here. And, indeed, 
when men are extravagant enough to do so in a 
picture gallery, where art provides the pageant, 
why should they not enjoy a gift of nature's pro- 
viding, in the shape of the beauty of fruits beauti- 

^ Mala strutheay cotonea. Cf. Pliny (N. H., xi, ii), where 
these are described. The struthea was a smaller kind of 
cotonea. Cotonea {mala) was the Kvdojvia of the Greeks, our 
quinces [cotogna in modern Italian). 

^ Melimela. According to the Geoponica (x, 76) these were 
produced by grafting apple on quince. 



I] OF STORING APPLES 113 

fully arranged? Though we must assuredly not do 
as some have done — bring to the country fruit 
bought at Rome,^ in order to turn a storeroom into 
a banqueting-hall. 
3 Some people think that apples keep well enough 
in a storehouse when placed on shelves or a plaster 
floor; others prefer to have straw under them or 
even flocks of wool. Pomegranates keep well, it is 
said, if their branches are stuck into a cask full of 
sand; the greater and less quince^ on hanging 
mats of reeds,^ while, on the other hand, the ripe 
Anician pears are best preserved in sapa. Some 
consider that'* sorb apples" cut in pieces and dried in 
the sun like pears keep well, and that this fruit can 
be kept without difficulty just as it is wherever it is 
put, provided the place be dry. Rape may be cut 
up and kept in mustard-seed, walnuts in sand, 

' Romae coempta. VIctorius quotes in illustration part of 
1 epigram, the author of which he does not name. 

Quaeque iibi posui tamquavi vemacula poma 
De Sacra nulli dixeris esse via. 

l^on't tell anyone that my home-grown fruit was bought in 
the Sacra Via.) 
' Mala cotonea, stnithea. Keil has not the comma, which 
hould be there. Cf. note i, p. 112. 
^ In pensilibtcs iunclis. In despair I have translated iuncis 
J of iunctis. Columella (x, 306) uses iuncus for a basket 
- — of reeds. As the text stands one can only understand 
ith pensilibtLSy surculisy and translate " on hanging branches 
joined together." Pliny (N. H., xv, 17) says that quinces should 
be shut up so that no breath of air may get to them ; or 
hould be preserved in honey. 

I 



114 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

pomegranates ^ also in sand, if put there when they 
have just been plucked and when ripe — even unripe 
ones, if you put them, still attached to the branch, 
into a pot without bottom, and sink them in the 
ground, then pitch round the branches to prevent 
the outside air from getting to them, are not only 
sound when taken up, but bigger than they would 
ever have been if left hanging on the tree. 



CHAPTER LX 

OLIVES FOR EATING 

Of the fruit of the olive, Cato writes that eating 
olives — Orcites and P(a)useae — are best kept either 
green in brine, or, after being well bruised, in 
mastic oil. He adds that if the Orcites, when black 
and dry, be well rubbed with salt for five days, and 
you then shake off the salt and leave them in the 
sun for two days, they remain as a rule in good 
condition, and that they may also be put without 
disadvantage unsalted into new wine boiled down 
to half its bulk. 

^ Punica mala, etc. Pliny (N. H., xv, 17) writes: " M. Varro 
recommends that they be kept in tubs of sand, or else be 
buried unripe in the ground — in jars of which the bottoms 
have been knocked out ; but you must keep the air out and 
the branch must be smeared with pitch. They then grow to a 
greater size than they can on the tree." 



I] KEEPING AND CONSUMING 115 

CHAPTER LXI 

OF AMURCA 

Good farmers store amurca in casks just as care- 
fully as they do oil or wine. The method of storing 
is as follows: As soon as ever it has been squeezed 
out by the press, two-thirds of it are boiled away, 
and what remains is put when it has cooled into 
vessels. There are also other methods of storing, 
IS, for example, that in which *' must" is added. 

CHAPTER LXII 

KEEPING AND CONSUMING 

As no one stores up produce save with the inten- 
tion of bringing it out again, I must also give a 
few words to this subject, which constitutes the 
sixth phase. People bring out what they have 
stored, either for its preservation, or for consump- 
tion, or for sale. Now as these objects are unlike, 
different times must be chosen for preserving and 
consuming different kinds of produce. 



I 



ii6 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER LXIII 

ON BRINGING CORN OUT OF STORE 

For its preservation: that corn must be brought 
out which weevils are beginning to eat. When it 
has been got out, pans of water must be placed in 
the sun, as the weevils crowd to them and commit 
suicide. 

Those who keep their corn in those underground! 
chambers called siros must get it out some consider-j 
able time after opening, as it is dangerous to enter] 
them when newly opened — so much so that people 
have been suffocated. Spelt that you have stored 
in the ear during summer, and wish to prepare for 
food, must be taken out in winter time to be pounded' 
in the mill and roasted. 

CHAPTER LXIV 

PREPARATION OF AMURCA 

Amurca, which is a watery fluid, mixed with im- 
purities, after being pressed from the olive and put] 
into an earthenware jar, is commonly kept in the] 
following way: in fifteen days' time the lightest 
part, the scum, is blown off from it, and put intc 
other vessels, and this is repeated with the samt 
intervals of fifteen days twelve times for the nexi 
six months — and when this operation is performe( 
for the last time, they prefer to decant when th< 



I] OF WHITE OLIVES 117 

moon is on the wane. Then they boil it down in 
cauldrons over a slow fire, until it is reduced to 
tvs'o-thirds of its original volume, and then only- 
may it be brought out to be used. 



CHAPTER LXV 

OF WINE 

Tie **must" put into the cask to become wine, 
should not be brought out while it is fermenting — 
nor even when it has actually become wine, if you 
wart to drink it old — and it does not become old 
before a year has been added to its age. When it is 
a year old it is brought out for consumption. If it 
belongs, however, to the class of grape which quickly 
turrs acid, you must consume or sell it before the 
nex: vintage. There are some kinds of wine — the 
Falernian amongst them — which are the more valu- 
able when you bring them out, the more years you 
kecD them in the cellar. 



CHAPTER LXVI 

OF WHITE OLIVES 

White olives which have been stored, if brought 
OLt too soon when fresh, are nauseous owing to 

Kheir bitterness, as also are the black ones unless 
hey are rendered palatable by being first steeped 
SI salt. 



ii8 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER LXVII 

WALNUTS, DATES, AND FIGS 

As for the walnut, the date, and the Sabine fig, the 
quicker you bring them out the better the flavour, 
for age makes the fig paler, the date rotten, and the 
nut too dry. 



CHAPTER LXVni 

HUNG FRUIT 

Fruits that are hung, such as grapes, apples, and 
sorbs, show of themselves when they should be 
consumed, as by the change of colour and the 
shrivelling of the berries they let you know that 
they will come down to be thrown away if you do 
not take them away to be eaten. Ripe sorbs wljich 
have been stored when soft must be used pritty 
quickly — those which have been hung when sour 
may wait longer, as before mellowing they wan^ to 
attain in the house the maturity which they cani^otj 
hope to reach on a tree. 



!] ON PRODUCE FOR MARKET 119 

CHAPTER LXIX 

ON PRODUCE FOR MARKET 

I Of the spelt which has been mown, that which you 
wsh to be prepared for food should be brought out 
in the winter to be roasted in the bakery. Such of 
it IS you want sown should be brought out when 
tht fields are ready to receive it. So, in general, 
the various kinds of corn to be sown must be got 
ou at their proper times. As for the things which 
are for market you must note the proper time for 
eao, for some things — those that will not keep — 
yoi must bring out and sell quickly before they 
spd, others, which will keep, you must sell when 
the fetch a good price. For it often happens that 
wht you keep back for some time not only gives 
yo interest on your outlay, but even doubles your 
prdt if you bring it out at the right moment. 

^Far {Kt'ut, spelt, French ipeautre) a poor kind of wheat 
whh, however, grows well on poor soils. It was the prin- 
cifl food — eaten in the form of porridge — of the ancient 
Rmans. The words farina (flour), confarreatio, and diffar- 
re'io (patrician forms of marriage and divorce) were derived 
fm it. It was much used in sacrifices — to Ceres, Tellus, etc. 

^ike barley, it was roasted first and then pounded in a 
tfroden mortar (Cf. Pliny, N. H., xviii, 11): twice — the first time 
t remove the husk, the second to reduce the grain to flour. 

I 'liny tells us in the same chapter that only those who 

f pounded " yizr were called bakers; and that there were no 
ikers by trade in Rome before the Persian war — 580 years 
ker the foundation of the city {i.e., 174 B.C.). 



I20 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. i 

2 As Stolo was saying this, the freedman of the 
temple-guardian came up to us weeping, aid 
begged us to forgive him for having kept us wait- 
ing, and asked us to go to his ^ funeral the next d;y. 
We all started up and cried out with one voice : 
What? To the funeral? What funeral? What Ibs 
happened? With tears in his eyes he told us tlat 
his master had been stabbed with a knife by sone- 
body, and had fallen to the ground. '^I was lot 
able," he said, ''to notice in the crowd who it was I 
only heard clearly a voice saying, ' I have mae a 

3 mistake.' I took him home and sent slaves to jnd 
a doctor and bring him as soon as possible. Ad I 
think, gentlemen, I may be pardoned for havng 
done what I did instead of coming to you. md 
though I couldn't prevent my old master fpm 
breathing his last soon after, I do still think Hid \ 
my duty." We told him he was quite right, nd 
walking down the temple-steps went our sepaite 
ways, feeling more sorrow for human misch^e 
than wonder that such a thing had happenedin 
Rome. 

^ Ei. I have kept in the translation the ambiguity of le 
text. JSt cannot, of course, in any way refer to the speaker 

The freedman in his agitation said : * ' please come to is 
funeral," forgetting that he had not mentioned his old masty 



'\ 



BOOK II 
CONCERNING CATTLE 

INTRODUCTION 

I Good reason had our great ancestors for setting the 
Romans of the country above those of the town. 
For, just as in the country those who live and work 
inside the farmhouse are of slacker fibre than those 
who work on the land, so those who led the sed- 
entary life of a town were accounted by our an- 

( oestors a feebler folk than those who tilled the fields. 

Accordingly, in dividing their year they arranged 

for the transaction of city business every ninth day 

only,' giving the remaining seven days of each 

week " to the cultivation of the fields. And as 

ng as they maintained this custom two ends 

' Nonts modo diehus. We should say every eighth day. The 

Roman reckoning was inclusive of the first and last day of 

any period of time. Thus nudius tertius for the day before 

^terday, etc. This method of counting has persisted amongst 

c Latin races to some extent ; cf. the French and Italian for 

fortnight, quinze jours and quindici giomi. Varro alludes to 

me nundinae {novem dinae) or market-day, which was the last 

day of the eight-day week. On it the country folk ceased work 

in the fields, and came to Rome to buy or sell in the market, 

^oU to hear public announcements ; especially with regard to 

I^HiKfui and the business to be conducted at them. 
I. 



122 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

were achieved : by cultivation they made ^ and kept 
their lands most productive, while they themselves 
enjoyed a lustier health, and might dispense with 
the town gymnasia of the Greeks. Whereas nowa- 
days men are hardly satisfied with one gymnasium 
apiece, and do not consider that they possess a 
country house unless it is dignified by a lot of 
Greek names,* which they give to its several parts, 
such 2iS procoeton (antechamber), /<2/^^^/r« (room for 
exercise), apodyterium (undressing-room), /^r/^/y/o^ 
(colonnade), ornithon (poultry - yard), peristeron 
(dove-cote), oporothece (store-house for fruit). 
3 And now that nearly all heads of families have 
deserted scythe and plough, and sneaked within 
the city walls, preferring to keep their hands astir 
in theatre and circus rather than amidst corn-crops 
and vineyards, we contract ^ with people to bring us 

1 Ut haherent . . . ac ne. Perhaps both better translated 
as ** final " conjunctions — though Cicero writes (De Finibus, 
bk. ii) : Ex quo efficitur non ut voluptas ne sit voluptas sed ut 
voluptas non sit summum bonum. 

^ Retineant. I can find no parallel to the use of retinere here. 
Auc, Ad Herennium, iii, 3, has retinere fortitudinem in the sense 
of consetvare, to keep up. Gesner conjectures ingeniously re- 
tinniat. If this be adopted the passage means : "do not think 
they have a country-house unless it * tinkles ' with a lot of 
Greek names, etc." 

^ Frumentum locamus. Columella in the preface to his work 
on farming paraphrases most of this introduction — and this 
passage thus : "And so in this Latium, in this land of the good 
god Saturn, where the gods taught agriculture to their off- 
spring, we have now, lest we starve, to contract for corn to be 



II] INTRODUCTION 123 

the corn, whereby we may grow fat, from Africa 
and Sardinia, and get in the vintage by ship from 
\ the islands of Cos or Chios. And so in that country 
where the city's founders were shepherds and' 
taught agriculture to their descendants, these de-\ 
scendants have reversed the process, and, through 
covetousness and in despite of laws, have turned 
corn-land into meadow, not knowing the difference 
between agriculture and grazing. For a shepherd 
: is a different thing from a ploughman, and if herds 
of cattle can and do graze on the land, a cattle 
I drover is not therefore the same as a teamster. For 
grazing cattle do not help to produce what grows 
on the land, they remove it with their teeth ; where- 
as the domestic ox makes the corn grow better in 
the corn-land, and fodder in the fallow land. 

Different, I repeat, is the method, the science, of 
the farmer from that of the shepherd — the farmer's 
— evince being such things as are made by means 
: agriculture to spring from the ground, the shep- 
crd's those that spring from the flock. But, as the 
two are intimately connected, and seeing that as a 
'-'lie it pays the owner better to have the fodder 
ten on his farm than to sell it, and manuring is 
xcellent for the fruits of the earth — for which pur- 
pose cattle are most suitable — therefore the man 
who owns an estate should adopt both systems, 
agriculture and pasture-farming, and even the 
rearing of animals within the precincts of the farm- 
bought us from the provinces across the sea, and get our 
intages in from the Cyclades, Baetica, and Gaul." ^q 



11 



124 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

house, for from this latter also considerable profits 
can be made. I mean from poultry-yards, hare- 
6 warrens, and fish-ponds. And seeing that I have 
written a book on the first of these, ^ namely, agri- 
culture, for the benefit of my wife Fundania who 
has bought a farm, I write this short treatise on 
the essentials of cattle raising for you, my friend 
Turranius Niger,^ since you take so keen a delight 
in cattle, if one may judge from the frequency with 
which your feet bear you, on cattle-buying bent, to 
the market at Campi Macri, with the object of thus 
helping to provide for expenses which make many 
demands on your purse. This I shall be able to do 
without difficulty, having myself kept large flocks 
of sheep in Apulia, and of horses in the country 
about Reate. What I write will be drawn from 
conversations that I had with the owners of large 
flocks in Epirus, when I was in command of the 

^ E quis quoniam. The whole three books were written for 
Fundania (cf. i, i, 4), so that it is curious that this book is 
dedicated to Turranius Niger, and the third to Q. Pinnius (iii, 
I, 10). It may be that the first book was published some time 
before the others, and that Varro forgot when he dedicated the 
latter to the two men mentioned that he had already promised 
the three to his wife. Nonius Marcellus quotes forty-two pass- 
ages from the first book, none from the second or third. 

2 Turranius Niger. Nothing is known of him. Cicero 
mentions a D. Turranius (Ad Att., i, 6) whom he calls hom- 
inem xpr\(STo\iaBr\. 

The name Turranius (spelt also Turannius) seems connected 
with taurus [turn = taurus in Umbrian), and cattle are the 
subject of this book. 



II] CATTLE FARMING: ITS ORIGIN 125 

Greek fleets between Delos and Sicily at the time 
of the war against the pirates.^ I will here begin. 
Here we left off.^ 



CHAPTER I 

cattle-farming: its origin, repute, and 
practice 

Ox the departure of Menates, Cossinius ^ turned to 
me and said : We shall not let you go until you have 
finished your exposition of those three matters — you 

' Piratico hello y waged by Pompey in 67 B.C. Varro gained 
9i corona roslrata {Pliny, N. H., xvl, 4): M. Varrone e piraticis 
hellis dante Magna Pompeio. 

' Hie intermisimus. These words, found in the archetype in 
pita! letters, immediately after incipiam hinc, are no doubt 
c words of the copyists who had been in turn copying a manu- 
rlpt of this work. They seem mildly facetious. " I will 
i^in here," said Varro. " Here we left off," said they. Was 
because, one wonders, the MS. was illegible at this place, 
r it is obvious that much has been omitted between incipiam 
■ 'ic and cum Menates'^ Did they give up in despair here and 
' on copying further on, when the MS. was moderately legi- 
c— though imperfectly so, for we have trouble a few lines 
f cr with cum poetam sesum, etc. ? 

It seems, at any rate, absurd to suppose with Lachmann 
it the words are Varro's, who attempts to out -Homer 
i >mer. 

ILI^* Cossinius. Cicero in two consecutive letters to Atticus 
^Bd Att, i, 20, and ii, 1) mentions a L. Cossinius, to whom he 



126 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

remember — on which you were recently beginning 
to speak when we were interrupted. What three 
matters? asked Murrius; do you mean what you 
told me yesterday about cattle-raising? Precisely, 
answered Cossinius: I mean the discourse which 
our friend Varro here was beginning, on the origin, 
dignity, and art of cattle-raising (we had come to 
see Paetus,^ who was not very well), only the 
arrival of the doctor prevented our further discus- 
sion. 

For my part, said I, I consent to treat the his- 
torical part only, to say what I know about the first 
two parts, namely, the origin of the art and its 
dignity. The third, the practical part, Scrofa ' must 
take in hand. For Scrofa, oV '^^p /-^o^ Tro'^y^ov afxsivav 
(^^ who is a much better man than I ") — I say it in 
Greek to two half-Greek shepherds — is the man 
who taught C. Lucilius Hirrus, your son-in-law, 

ship. A few lines further (i, 20) he mentions a L. Papirius 
Paetus who was an Epicurean and a man of much wit and 
learning. To him were written twelve of Cicero's letters 
(Ad Fam., ix, 15-26). 

^ Cufn poetam sesum. This passage is manifestly corrupt. 
Sesum may be ior fesum {i.e.^fessum) in the sense of ill (Ursi- 
nus) and poetam for paetum. The passage would then read : 
Cum Poetumfessum visere venissemus. For visere venissemus 
cf. Plautus (Rudens, 94), nunc hue ad Veneris fanum venio 
visere. 

^ Scrofa {Tremellius) constantly quoted by Columella as a 
great authority. Columella (i, i, 12) says that " Cato first 
taught Agriculture to speak Latin, the two Sasernae con- 
tinued her education, Tremellius Scrofa made her eloquent, 
Varro gave her polish (!), and Virgil made a poet of her." 



11] CATTLE FARMING: ITS ORIGIN 127 

whose flocks in the country of the Bruttii are 
accounted so famous. 

But, said Scrofa, you shall have what we can 
give only on the condition that you, who are Epirots 
and therefore are great men at cattle-raising, repay 
us by bringing what you know to the common stock. 
For no one can know everything. 

When I had received the assent of the company 
to the first two parts (only) being mine — not but 
what I too possess flocks in Italy, but the harp does 
not make the harper — I began. 

Well, gentlemen, as from the nature of things 
men and sheep must always have existed — for 
whether we suppose that there was an original 
i generating principle for animals, which was the 
opinion of Thales of Miletus^ and Zeno of Citium,* 
or on the other hand that animals had no begin- 
ning at all, as Pythagoras of Samos' and Aris- 

' Thales Milesius. Water to wit: cf. Plutarch (Plac. Phil., 
^): arvx/iZjirai V U tovtov irpCiTOV '6ti Travriav rwv ^<^'(ui/ // yovri 
"FX^ i^nv vypd ovaa. 

* Zeno Citie-us (borrowing from Heracleitus) made fire the 
ultimate physical principle; cf. Diogenes Laertius, vii, 156: 
^«ni V oOtoIc r^v ftiv <pvaiv ilvai irvp TtxviKbv uS<{> ^adH^ov etc 
yivtmv. Cf Cicero, N. D., ii, 41 : Quare cum solis ignis similis 
eorum ignium sit qui sunt in corporibus animantium^ etc., and 
Varro (L. L., v, 10): Sive ut Zeno Citieus animalium semen 
ignis. 

* Pythagoras Samius. Varro alludes perhaps to the incessant 
transmigration of souls. Cf Porphyrius, Vita Pythag., 19: 
wpttrop ftiv wf dOdvarov tlvai tptiai n)v rin/xfjv tlra fxtrafiuXXovaav d{ 
AXa yivti l^tfitiv . . . v'tov V ohiiv dirXuiQ iari. 



128 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

totle of Stagyra^ believed, human life must have 
come down from the highest antiquity to our time, 
stage by stage, as Dicaearchus writes, and the re- 
motest stage must have been the state of Nature 
when man lived on those things which the virgin 

4 earth produced spontaneously. Then from this 
mode of life they must have descended to the 
second mode, the pastoral, in which, by plucking 
from wild and woodland trees and shrubs acorns, 
arbutus berries, and mulberries, they made a store 
of fruit for subsequent use, and in the same way 
and for the same end captured such wild animals as 
they could and shut them up and tamed them. 
There is reason to believe that amongst these 
animals sheep were the first adopted, on account of 
their usefulness and gentle nature, for they are by 
nature extremely gentle and especially fitted for 
association with man's life, for through them milk 
and cheese were added to his food, and for his body 
they furnished clothing in the shape of skins. 

5 Finally, with the third stage, they reached, from 
the pastoral mode of life, the agricultural, retaining 
in it much of the two former stages, and went on 
long in the stage which they had reached before 
they could attain^ our present civilization. Even 

1 Aristotle. Cf. Phys., ii, i, 192: twv ovnav to. fikv tan (pvaei, 
Tci de di* dWag ahias, (pvaei fikv to. re ^(pa kuI to. fikpr) avrCJv Koi 
TO. ^VTO..'^ They exist, therefore, by (^vaig — the eternal apxn 

KlVrjOtdiQ. 

^ Dum ad nos perveniret. This impersonal use of the active 
verb — normal with the passive verb — is common with Varro. 
Cf. i, 44, I ; i, 23, 3, etc. 



II] CATTLE FARMING: ITS REPUTE 129 

now in many places there are several kinds of wild 
animals; there are sheep, for instance, in Phrygia, 
where many flocks are to be seen, and in Samo- 
thrace there are wild she-goats of the kind called in 
Latin Totae.^ For many exist in the neighbourhood 
of MountFiscellum'^and Mount Tetrica.^ Everybody 
knows about wild pigs — except the man who thinks 
that wild boars are not properly called pigs. At 
the present day quite wild bulls are found in Dar- 
dania, Maedica and Thrace, wild asses in Phrygia 

ad Lycaonia, and wild horses in Hither Spain, in 

ome districts. 



6 The origin of the art is as I have stated; its high 

repute I proceed to show. Amongst the ancients the 

most famous men were all shepherds, as is evident 

from both the Latin and Greek languages, and 

from the old poets who call some of their heroes 

folyamae^ others polymeloi^ and others polyhutae^ 

nd to express their costliness they stated that the 

iieep had actually golden fleeces, like the one at 

\rgos which, Atreus complains, had been stolen 

' Kotos. Scaliger conjectures (p. 233) platycerotas from 
Pliny (N. H., xi, 37). Platyce rotas might easily be corrupted 
V the unintelligent copyist into Latine rotas — two words 
.vhich he understood. Schneider's conjecture, strepsicerotasy 
does not account for the word Latine. 
' Fiscelluniy near Soracte. 
Tetrica^ in Northern Italy, on the borders of the Picentine 
ntry. 

K 



« 



I30 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

from him by Thyestes/ or like the ram in Colchis 
in the possession of Aeetes, in quest of whose fleece 
went the Argonauts of kingly race, so runs the 
story; or like the golden mala^- that is, in the 
ancient manner of speech, goats and sheep which 
were in the garden of the Hesperides in Libya, and 
were brought thence from Africa to Greece by 
7 Hercules. For the Greeks called these animals 
mela from the sound they utter, while our fellow 
countrymen to express the same sound use much 
the same word, changing only the initial letter, (for 
the sound which sheep make seems to be rather 
he^ than me)^ and speak of sheep when they bleat 
as making the sound he^ bealare: and this word 
healare becomes balare by the excision of a letter, as 
happens in many cases. Again, if sheep and goats, 
etc., had not been highly esteemed amongst the an- 
cients, then astrologers in mapping out the heavens 
would not have given their names to constellations; 
and this they not only did without hesitation, but 
many of them even, in their enumeration of the 

^ Thyestem suhduxe. Pacuvius, quoted by Cicero (N. D., 
iii, 27) : 

Agnum inter pecudes a'Area clarum coma 

Quern cldm (v.l., quondam) Thyestem cUpere ausum ist e 
rigia. 

2 Aurea mala, *' the golden apples " of the Hesperides; but 
as firika = either mala or oveSy Varro gives it the latter sense 
of " sheep." 

^ Sed he sonare videntur. Cf. Cratinus (Dion., 5) : b h' rjXiOios 
utainp irpofiarov ^rj (irj Xkywv /3a^t^ct. 



n] CATTLE FARMING: ITS REPUTE 131 

twelve signs of the Zodiac, actually begin with 
them, with the Ram and the Bull that is, placing 
them before Apollo and Hercules. For these latter, 
gods though they are, follow them, though these 

8 signs are called (by some) Gemini^ (twins). And not 
content that a sixth of the twelve signs should bear 
the names of cattle, they added Capricorn to make 
up the quarter. Of domestic animals they also added 
the goat, kids, and dogs. 

And are not many tracts of both sea and land dis- 
tinguished by these names — the Aegean Sea," for 
instance (which owes its name to goats). Mount 
Taurus in Syria, Mount Cantherius'' in the land of 
the Sabines, and the Thracian and Cimmerian Bos- 

i9 porus? ' And are there not many places on land with 

i these names, such as the town in Greece called 
"Hippios (horse-rearing) Argos "? Finally is not 

1 the word Italy derived from vituli (bullocks) as Piso 
^1tes? Again, who denies that the Roman people 
prang from shepherds? who but knows that Faus- 

' Gemini are the Dioscuri, Castor and Pollux, so that it 
dii cannot be the subject of appellantur but ea signa. This is 
a good example of one of Varro's worst habits ; cf. ii, 3, 6 ; 
0,4, 19; iii, 9, 2. Apollo and Diana were sometimes called 
Qemini. Varro, L. L., vii {suhfin.)^ quoting Manilius: 

" Latona pariit casta complexu lovis 
Delia Deos Geminos. 

id est ApoUinem et Dianamy 
' * Aegaeum. alyitof, from al^, a goat. 

* Cantherius — a gelding. 

• Bosporus. iSoawopot = Ox-ford. 



132 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

tulus, who was the foster-father of Romulus and 
Remus, and brought them up, was a shepherd? 
Will it not be obvious that they were themselves 
shepherds, if we consider that they chose, as the 
time to found their city, a shepherd-festival (the 
Parilia)?' Is not the same thing proved by the fact 
that a fine '^ is even nowadays estimated, when the 
ancient custom is followed, in terms of sheep and 
oxen; that the most ancient copper coinage^ is 
stamped with the figure of an ox; that when the 
10 city was founded the position of the walls and gates* 
was marked out by a bull and cow, that when the 
Roman people is purified by the Suomtaurilia^ a 

' Parilihus. 21st April. Varro, L. L., vi, 3, calls the festival 
Palilia — Palilia dicta a Pale quod ei feriae. Cicero generally 
writes Parilia. For a full and interesting account of this 
festival cf. Ovid, Fasti, iv, 721-82. 

^ Multa. Cf. Pliny, N. H., xviii, 3; Aulus Gellius, xi, i; 
Servius (ad Georg., iii, 387), where it appears that one murder 
cost a ram in the time of the kings ! 

^ Aes antiquissimum. The as of Servius Tullius, cf. Pliny 
(xviii, 3): Sefvius rex ovium boumque effigie primus aes sig' 
navit. 

* Oiia essent muri. Cf. Servius (Aeneid, v, 755): "Which 
Cato in his Origins says was the way. For the founders of a 
city yoked a bull and cow together — the bull to the right the 
cow on the inside — and . . . held the plough-handle inclined 
so that all the clods fell on the inside. And thus, by the furrow 
traced, they marked the position of the walls; lifting the 
plough at the places where gates were to be." 

Varro, L. L. , v, 32 : Oppida condehant in Latio Etrusco ritu 
multi, id est iunctis bobus, tauro et vacca interiore aratro circum- 
agebant sulcujn. 



II] CATTLE FARMING: ITS PRACTICE 133 

boar, a ram, and a bull are driven round the city ; 
and finally, that we have many Roman names de- 
rived from both kinds of cattle, the larger and the 
less? From the less, Porcius, Ovinius, Caprilius, 
and similarly from the larger, Equitius, Taurius, 
Asinius. The same point is further illustrated by 
the use of the names of cattle as cognomina^ 
in the case of the families the Anni Caprae,' the 
Statili Tauri, the Pomponi Vituli, and many others 
who get their names from cattle. 

There remains for discussion the theory and 
practice of cattle-grazing; and Scrofa, to whom 
our generation assigns the palm in every depart- 
ment of agriculture, will discuss it, as he is better 
qualified than the rest of us. 

Here everybody looked at Scrofa, and he began, 

Well, gentlemen, it is a science which is concerned 

with the acquiring and feeding of cattle to the end 

that the greatest possible profit may be made from 

it — from those animals to which money {pecunia) 

itself owes its name. For cattle are the origin of all 

money. 

Th is science has nine parts — t hree separate sets 

\ ofTttTee — the subject matter of one part being the 

• smaTtST'cattle, ofwEich there are three kinds — 

' sheep, goats^ pigs ; thatof the second the large cattle, 



' Anni Caprae. Cf. Plutarch, Quaestiones Romanae (about 

the middle) : lii gal twv dvn^UTUJV iroWA roif TraXaiolc cvt'Wiui Kal 
(^mfivXtcoi Kai TdpKtoi f/aav uf; tpaiviaTtWai; (Feneslclla) tipriKii/. 



134 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

which nature has divided also into three classes — 
oxen, asses, horses. The third part of the science 
has to do with those animals which in stock-raising 
are not acquired for the sake of direct profit, but 
which are either aids to stock-raising, or result from 
it, as mules, dogs, shepherds. Again, each one of 
these parts contains in it at least nine sub-sections 
of general application ; four of which are needed in 
the buying of cattle, other four in their feeding, and 
there is one besides which concerns both. This 
makes in all eighty-one parts at the least, which 
are moreover indispensable and of the greatest 
importance. 

13 In the first place, to get a good flock or herd, you 
must know the best age at which to buy each kind 
of animal, and how long to keep it. For example, 
in the case of a herd of cows, a yearling and a 
cow above ten years old cost less to buy, as a cow 
begins to bear at two or three years old, and does 
not continue much longer than the tenth year. 
For in the first and last years of life every beast is 
sterile. 

14 The second of the four sections consists in the 
knowledge of the '' points" of each kind of animal 
(its shape,^ colour, etc.), as these are of great im- 
portance where profit is the end in view. For ex- 
ample, a man would rather buy a cow with black 

1 Forma. Not of course "shape" alone, but all the other 
qualities also which constitute the ideal type — the Aristotelian 
HloQ. Cicero frequently uses the word as a translation of the 
Platonic iZ'ta, 



II] CATTLE FARMING: ITS PRACTICE 135 

than one with white horns, a big she-goat in prefer- 
ence to a small one, and pigs with long bodies but 
small heads. 

The third section deals with the question of 
breed. In this respect, for instance, the asses from 
Arcadia in Greece have become famous, and in Italy 
those from Reate — so much so that within my re- 
collection an ass has sold for 60,000 sesterces 
(;^48o), and a single team of four fetched at Rome 
400,000' sesterces (;^3,20o). 

15 The fourth section deals with the acquisition of 
stock in its legal aspect, with the formalities pre- 
scribed by the Civil Law for the buying of each 
kind of animal, since before that which belongs to 
another can become mine, some intermediate pro- 
cess is required — and there are cases where the 
agreement to sell at a given price and the payment 
of the money do not constitute a change of owner- 
ship. When buying you must sometimes have the 
animal warranted sound, sometimes the flock or 
herd from which it comes, at other times neither 
guarantee is required. 

16 The second four sections which must be borne in 
mind after the buying is done, are concerned with 
the grazing, breedinjg^ rearing, and health of the 
flock orlierd. In regard to the first of these — the 
grazing — three matters have to be considered, 
namely: (1) the district to be selected for the graz- 

Quadringentu mililms. Cf. iii, 2, 7; and Pliny (N. H., 
iii, 43), who says that perhaps this is the greatest price ever 
for an animal. 



136 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

ing of each particular kind of animal; (2) the time; 

/ and (3) the method; as an example: goats are taken 
to graze in a mountainous bush-covered country, 
rather than on grassy plains; mares not so. Again, 
it does not suit all animals to feed in the same dis- 
trict both in winter and summer. So people drive 
flocks of sheep a considerable distance from Apulia, 
to spend the summer in Samnium (they must re- 
gister their names with the tax-farmer, lest, by 
grazing an unregistered^ flock, they incur the 

17 penalties of the censor's law ^). And mules are in 
summer driven from the plain of Rosea to the high 
mountains of Burbur.^ 

Then you have to consider just the right method 
of feeding each kind of cattle, for not only does a 
mare or a cow grow fat on hay, while pigs shun it 

^ Inscriptum pecus. On the meadow land of the ager puh- 
licus every citizen had the right to graze his cattle after first 
registering his name before the manceps or publicanus, and 
paying the registration tax. This was called the scriptura, 
which owed its name, according to Festus, to the fact that 
puhlicanus scribendo conpcit rationem cum pastore. 

^ Lege censoria. This refers to the censoria locatio^ where 
the censor put up to auction the collection of certain vectigalia. 
The highest bidder — individual or syndicate {societas)—^d,vQ 
security for the amount bid, and proceeded to collect what he 
could. The lex censoria defined the conditions of the locatio, 
and gave the puhlicanus the legal authority by which he en- 
forced payment. 

From the first book (cap. 7) it would appear that cases were 
tried before the censor, such probably as were connected with 
the up-keep cf the temples, public buildings, and roads. 

^ In Burbures (or Gurgures). Nothing is known of these 



II] CATTLE FARMING: ITS PRACTICE 137 

i to seek acorns, but barley ^ and beans may occa- 
sionally have to be given to some animals, lupines 
to cows, and lucerne and clover to the latter when 
they are suckling their young. You must remem- 
ber also that for thirty days before they are used for; 
breeding, rams and bulls are given more food in[j 
order to maintain their strength, while cows are; 
given less, because it is said they conceive more 
readily when they are thin. 

The second section has to do with gestation — and 
here I define ** gestation" as lasting from concep- 

n to birth, for these are respectively the begin- 
nmg and end of pregnancy. So we must first con- 
sider the time when the males of each species 
should be admitted to the females. Now for swine 
the best time is thought to be from Favonius'to the 
vernal equinox; for sheep between the setting of 
Arcturus and the setting of Aquila. 

Again, we must consider how long, before ad- 
! mission, the males should be kept separate from 
I the females. This is done in almost all cases for a 

iple of months before, by both neatherds and 

cpherds. 

The second division (of this second section) tells 

mountains, and no emendation at all plausible has been pro- 
posed. 

* Hordeum et faha . . . obiciendum. This seems quite im- 
possible in any Latin {pace Keil). S\xx^\y faham^ and further on 
medkam, as suggested by Ursinus, must be read. The con- 
1 is then the normal one for Varro. The corruption 
dica to medica^ fabd io/abuy is easy. 
A/avonio. Cf. i, 29. 



138 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

us what to keep in mind when pregnancy has be- 
gun, for different animals bring forth at different 
times. For instance, a mare is pregnant for twelve 
months, a cow for ten, sheep and goats respectively 
for five, and pigs for four months. 

Speaking of pregnancy, let me tell you some- 
thing which happens in Spain ; no one will believe 
it, but it is none the less true. In Lusitania, near 
^ the ocean, in that stretch of country where is the 
ittA"-' town Olisipo,^ certain mares on Mount Tagrus^ 
conceive at a certain time of the year by means of 

^ Olisipo, now Lisbon. Pliny (N. H., iv, 22) calls it: mu- 
nicipium civium Romanorum, Felicitas Julia cognominatum. 

* Monte Tagro. Columella (vi, 27, 7) : Cum sit notissimum 
etiam in Sacro nionte Hispaniae qui procurrit in occidentcm 
iuxta Oceanum, frequenter equas sine coitu ventrem pertulisse, 
foetumque educasse^ qui tamen inutilis est, quod triennio, prius 
quam adolescat, morte absumitur. 

Pomponlus Mela (iii, i) mentions three promontories (i) 
Cuneus, (2) Sacrum (Cape St. Vincent), and (3) Magnum, and 
he places Ulysippo on the last, near the mouth of the 
Tagus. 

Pliny (N. H., iv, 22) writes: Oppida memorabilia: a Tago 
in ora, Olysippo equarum efavonio vento conceptu nobile. . . . 
And again (viii, 42) : Constat in Lusitania circa Olysiponem 
oppidum et Tagum Amnem . . . ; and goes on to relate Varro's 
story. 

It has been proposed therefore to read (i) on Columella's 
authority Monte Sacro (now Sagres), which is obviously wrong, 
as the Sacrum Promontorium is several hundred miles from 
Lisbon, (2) Amne Tago, and (3) Monte Artabro. Solinus Poly- 
histor (cap. xxvi) calls the Promontorium Artabrum Ulysippo- 
nense, so that the last conjecture seems the most plausible. 
But then how account for the Monte Tagro of the text? 



II] CATTLE FARMING: ITS PRACTICE 139 

le wind, just as hens frequently do with us, the 
^^gs of which we call '^ wind-eggs." ^ The foals, 
however, bom of these mares do not live longer 
than three years. 

See to it that the young which are born at full 
term or after have a clean and soft place to stand 
upon, and that they be not trampled under foot. 
Those lambs are called cordi which are born after 
the regular time, having remained in the internal 
membrane, which is called chorion^^ whence the 
name cordu 

The third section deals with the knowledge neces- 

1 sary in rearing animals, and tells you, in respect of 
\ this, for how many days the young should be 
I suckled by the mother, and the time when, and 
[ place where, this is to be done. It instructs you, if 

the mother has not milk enough, to put them to the 
breast of another mother. Those with whom this is 
done are called subrtimi, for rumis^ was, I imagine, 
the ancient word for ^^ breast." 

Hypenemia, vTnjvffna (Aristotle, Hist. A., v, i). Pliny 
(N. H., X, 60) calls them irrifa, and says that they are sterile, 
small, of poorer flavour, and more watery than good eggs. 
^ Chorion. Keil thinks that several words have here dropped 
u from the text; the literal translation of which, as it stands, 
of course: "That from which they get the name oi cordi is 
Med the chorion " — which was probably all the explanation 
irro meant to give. 

' Rumis. Cf. ii, 11, 5, and Pliny (N. H., xv, 18) : lupa in/an- 

'hus praebens rumen {ita vocahant manunam), and Varro (Ant. 

R, D. Agahd., p. 170) : quia rumam dixerunt veteres mamntam 

(from Aug., De Civ. Dei, iv, 11). The goddess who looked 

after the suckling of children was called Rumina, and the fig- 



I40 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

Lambs as a rule are not weaned until four 
months old, kids until three, pigs until two. Of the 
last-named those which are without blemish, and fit 
for sacrifice, were once called sacres^ a word em- 
ployed by Plautus in the phrase, ^* What price are 
porci sacres? " ' Similarly fat beasts, fattened for 
public sacrifices, are called opimi, 

21 ■ The fourth section deals with the health of the 
stock. It is of wide extent and must be taken into 
serious account, for an unhealthy flock is very vul- 
nerable, and owing to its weakness often suffers 
great disaster from disease. 

Now, of this science (of health) there are two 
branches, as in the case of men, one concerned with 
such things as need the attendance of a doctor, the 
other with those which even a shepherd who takes 
pains may treat. It has three divisions, for you 
must note (i) what is the cause of each particular 
ailment ; (2) what are the characteristic symptoms of 
those causes, and (3) what is the treatment which 
each disease requires. 

22 In general what causes most diseases will be 

tree near the Palatine under which the twins were suckled 
was called 7?^«j Ruminalis. 

^ Porci sacres. The passage referred to by Varro is Plaut., 
Menaechm., ii, 2, 15: 

Adolescens quiJrus hie prStiis porci vineunt 
Sacres, sinceri? Nummo. Eum a me dccipe 
lube te piari de mea pecunia. 

Sacri and sacres are parallel, like hilari and hilares, epuloni 
^nd epulones, etc. 



II] CATTLE FARMING : ITS PRACTICE 141 

found to be sickness induced by heat or by chills, 
or again, by too much work or by the opposite ex- 
treme, lack of exercise, or by giving food or drink 
immediately after exercise. 

The symptoms are: in case of a fever which is 
the result of overwork an open mouth, rapid and 
' moist breath, and a hot body; the treatment when 
,5 this is the case is as follows: the animal is bathed 
!j all over with water, and thoroughly rubbed with a 
I mixture of tepid oil and wine, its strength is kept up 
J by food, and some wrapping is thrown over it to 
i prevent it from taking cold. If it is thirsty, luke- 
I warm water is given. If nothing is gained by this 

! method of treatment, the animal is bled — preferably 
from the head. 
A^ain, different diseases have different causes 
and different symptoms, and of these, in the case of 
ery flock or herd, the man to whose care it is 
mmitted should have a written record. 
There remains now the ninth division mentioned 
•fore, which is concerned with number, and is 
mmon to each of the two parts. For he who buys 
ock must fix a number, must determine how many 
flocks he intends to feed, and the number in each 
I flock, lest there be too much or too little grazing 
j^round for them, and loss be the result. He must 
know besides how many breeding ewes to keep in a 
^Kk, how many rams, how many lambs of each 
^cx, and how many of the poorer' sort should be 
■beded out. 

■"""■"""■■■""' 



142 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

As to the rearing of them : if too many lambs are 
born, you must follow the practice of some farmers 
and part with some of them ; the result of doing so 
is generally that the rest thrive better. 

25 I am afraid, said Atticus, that you are mistaken, 
and thatyour nine divisions are applicable only to the 
smaller and greater cattle. For how will they apply 
to mules and shepherds, where there is no question 
either of '* admission " or of '' gestation "; for I see 
that in speaking of dogs the nine divisions may be 

26 used. I grant, however, that the number nine may 
be retained in the case of human beings as well ; for 
farmers keep women in the winter-quarters of the 
slaves — in the farm buildings, I mean — while some 
do so even in their summer quarters; their object 
being to make it easier to keep the shepherds with 
their flocks, to increase the number of the slaves 
by child-bearmg, and thus to make their stock farm- 
ing a more profitable business. 

Said I : This number is not given as an exact one, 
any more than when we say that a thousand ships 
went to Troy, or speak of the court of the Centum- 
viri^ (hundred men) at Rome. So strike off, if you 
like, in the case of mules, the two things, impregna- 

p. 247) : Reiculas oves, aut aetate aut morbo graves. Varro, 
Cato vel de liberis educandis : et ut in grege opilio oves minus 
idoneas removere solet, quas reiculas appellant. 

^ Centumviri. They formed a court for the trial of certain 
civil causes at Rome — for the most part connected with 
property and especially with matters of inheritance. It con- 
sisted in Varro's time of 105 members chosen from the tribes 
(three from each of the thirty-five). 



II] CATTLE FARMING: ITS PRACTICE 143 

tion and foaling. Foaling? said Vaccius, as though 

one didn't sometimes hear of a mule having foaled ^ 

1 at Rome! I, to support him, put in the statement 

of Mago and Dionysius to the effect that mules and 

mares are delivered in the twelfth month after they 

have conceived. And so, said I, if the parturition 

of a mule be with us in Italy a portent, all countries 

do not agree with us in thinking it one. Swallows, 

moreover, and storks, which breed in Italy, do not 

do so in all countries. You know, of course, that 

the Syrian date-palm," which bears in Judaea, can- 

1 not do so in Italy. But, said Scrofa, if you prefer 

I to make up the number eighty-one without reference 

' to the parturition of mules and the rearing of their 

ung, there is a way of filling up the two gaps, 

iur there are, in addition, two supplementary means 

iof making profit which are of considerable import- 

j ance; one of which is shearing — for sheep and goats 

are shorn or plucked — the other, of wider extent, 

has to do with milk and cheese; to it the Greeks 

have given a special name, rvpoTroua, and have written 

much concerning it. 

Peperisse^ held as a prodigy by the Romans. Cf. Livy, 
vi,23: lapidibus pluisse et Reate mulam peperisse \ and again, 
^vii, 3: Terra apud se pluisse Tusculani nunciabant: et 
itini mulam in agro suo peperisse. It is curious how often 
rro's Reate is mentioned by Livy as the scene of prodigies ! 
Palmulas. Pliny (N. H., xiii, /^'.Judaea vero iticlyta est 
majifis palmis. . . . Sunt quidem et in Europa vul^oque 
ilia, sed steriles. 



144 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 



CHAPTER II 

OF SHEEP 

1 But, as we have now completed our task, and the 
subject of cattle-raising has been sketched in out 
line, it is the turn of you Epirot experts to fill in thj 
details and show the mettle ' of shepherds from Pei 
gamis ^ and Maledos. Then Atticus, who was th( 

2 Titus Pomponius, but is now called Ouintus Cae 
cilius Atticus,^ as he still keeps the cognomen Att 
cus, said, I suppose I had better begin, for if I ai 
not mistaken it was at me you looked when yoi 
spoke just now. My topic shall be the most ancient 

^ Potis sint. Archaic, of course, iox possint. Varro, L. L., 
vii, 5, quotes Pacuvius : Nulla res neque || Cicurare neque mederi 
potis est. The word potis Is generally considered to be an in- 
declinable adjective or an adverb like magis. Varro, how- 
ever, has Dii potes. Ennlus has potessunt for possunt. Lu- 
cretius (v. 1) : IVec potis est cerni quod cassum luviine fertur, 
" Nor is it possible, "etc. Plautus (Poenulus, i, 2, 17) : Populo^ 
cut luhet, plus satis dare potis sunt. 

^ Pergamis and Maledos. Nothing seems to be known 
about either. 

^ Nunc Quintus Caecilius. In 58 B.C. Atticus was adopted 
{testamento) by his uncle Quintus Caecilius. On 4th October 
of the same year Cicero writes from Thessalonica to congratu- 
late him. The letter is headed: "Cicero S. D., Q. Caecilio 
Q. F. Pomponiano Attico." 

Atticus's full name after the adoption was thus : Quintus 
Caecilius Pomponlanus Atticus. So Caius Octavius became 
C. Julius Caesar Octavianus. 



II] OF SHEEP ^ 145 

kind of stock. For, as you remark, sheep were the 
first animals caught and tamed by mankind. 

The first thing is to buy good ones, and such 
they will be as regards age if they are not too old 
on the one hand, nor on the other merely young 
iambs, for as the latter cannot yet give increase, so 
the former can no longer do so, but of the two, the 
age which is accompanied by hope is better than 

3 that which is soon followed by death. As to type, 
a sheep should be big-bodied, with plenty of soft 
wool, with the hairs standing high and thick over 
the whole body, and especially about the shoulders 
and neck. The belly also should be covered with 
wool. Accordingly those which are without this 
quality were called by our ancestors apicae^^ and 
were rejected as inferior. They should be short- 
legged. As to tails, it is the practice in Italy to have 
them long; in Syria, short. 

4 It is of great importance to see that your flock be 
of a good breed. This can generally be determined 
by two indications: the external characteristics and 
the offspring. The best type of ram has the fore- 
head well covered with wool, horns twisted and 
inclined towards the muzzle, gray eyes, ears covered 
with wool, broad breast, shoulders and hind-quar- 
ters, and the tail broad and long. You must see, 

' Apicae. Pliny (N. H., viii, 48): In ipsa ove satis generosU 
talis ostenditur brevitate crurtim, vcntris vestitu: quibiis nudus 
esset * ' apicas " vocabaniy damnabantque. Syriae cubitalcs ovium 
candae. The word is no doubt Greek, SLirtKOi {d-TroKoi), from 
w6€of =i fleece. Varro, ii, 2, 6, calls them minas, 

L 



146 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

too, that he has not a black or parti-coloured tongue, 
for those which have beget as a rule either black 
or parti-coloured lambs. Again, the offspring will 
prove the good quality of the breed if they be 
shapely. 

5 In buying, we make^ use of the rights implied in 
the form adopted. For in it some people make 
more, others fewer, reservations. Some people, for 
example, after settling the price per head of the 
sheep, stipulate that two lambs born after term should 
be reckoned as one sheep, and that where sheep 
have lost their teeth through age, two should count 
for one. For the rest the ancient ''formula" is 
generally used : after the purchaser has said, Have 
I bought them for so much? and the seller has re- 
plied. You have,^ and the purchaser has pledged 
himself to pay the price, the latter then asks for a 
warrant, using the words of the time-honoured for- 

6mula: — Do you guarantee that those sheep before 
our eyes, about which the bargain is being made, are 

^ Quae lex praescripsit. Cicero (De Oratore, i, 58) speaks of 
the leges Manilianae venalium vendendorum, concerning which 
Ernesti (Clavis Cicer. article lex) remarks, Quid sunt nisi 
formulae a Ilio conceptae quibus uti in emendis vendendisque 
rebus liceret? They were probably not laws in our sense of the 
word, but forms — like our forms of agreement between land- 
lord and tenant — which it was prudent alike for buyers and 
sellers to use. 

^ Et expromisit nummos. Keil places a comma here, Schnei- 
der a colon. Either makes the sense obscure, whereas if the 
comma be placed after emptor it is clear — et expromisit nummos 
emptor^ 



II] OF SHEEP 147 

genuinely sound in the sense in which a flock of 
sheep is considered genuinely sound, excluding ^ 
those blind of one eye, deaf, or minae — that is,^ 
with belly devoid of wool — that they do not come 
from a tainted flock, that possession is good in law, 
and that this sale is legal? When this has been 
done, the flock has still not changed owner unless 
the money has been paid down ; yet the buyer may 
bring and win an action under the head of ^'bought 
and sold " ^ against the seller if he does not deliver 
them, even though he may not have paid the money, 
just as the seller may bring a similar action against 
the buyer if he does not pay. 

* Extra. Extra quam si, words which introduce an exception 
in the text of an agreement. Cf. Cicero (Ad Atticum, vi, i, 14) : 
Extra quam si ita negotium ^estum est ut eo stari non oporteat 
ex fide bona. 

* Id est ventre glabra. If these words are not an inter^pola- 
tion made by an unintelligent copyist, apicae and minae have 
the same meaning. This does not seem probable, for both the 
words are explained by Festus : Apice dicitur ovis quae ventrem 
glabrum habet; and : Minam ait Aelius vocitatam mammam 
alteram lacte deficientem (for alteram, which is unintelligible, 
alturae or ad alturam is plausible). 

Meursius, and after him Miiller, suggest that minus is the 
positive of minor, and means tenuis (cf. modern Welsh, main 
= '* slight." Perhaps the word means here "with unde- 
veloped teats," and the following phrase is a gloss. 

' Ex emptv vendito, a titulus iuris. Cf. Cicero (De N. D., 
iii, cap. 30): Reliqtui quae ex empto aut vendito. . . . Contra 
fidem fiunt. 

As to the fact, cf. Justin, Instit., iii, 24: Emptio et venditio 
contrahitur simul atque de pretio convenerit quamvis nondum 
pretium numeratum sit. 



148 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

7 The second four divisions — feeding, breeding, 
rearing, and the health of the flock, I will discuss 
in order. 

In the first place you must see that the sheep be 
properly fed, indoors and out, the whole year round ; 
their stalls must be in a suitable place, free from 
draughts, and facing east rather than south. The 
ground on which they are to stand should be 
levelled, and sloping, so that it may easily be swept 
out and cleaned. For wet spoils not only a sheep's 
wool, but the hoofs as well, and makes them 
scabby. 

8 After they have been for some days [on the same 
bedding] you must put under them fresh brushwood, 
that they may have a softer couch to sleep on, and 
be cleaner. For so their appetites are better. You 
must also build pens apart from the rest that you 
may be able to isolate the pregnant ewes, as well as 
those which are ill. These instructions are applic- 
able more especially to flocks which are kept at the 

9 farmstead. On the other hand, those others which 
feed on grazing grounds, and are far from roofed 
buildings, take with them hurdles or netting, with 
which sheepfolds may be made in the wilderness — 
and all other needful things. For generally, sheep 
range far, and graze in places wide apart, the winter 
pastures often being many miles from those used in 
summer. I know that well enough, I exclaimed, 
for flocks of mine used to winter in Apulia which 
spent the summer on the mountains about Reate, 
though the pastures were far from each other and 



II] OF SHEEP 149 

connected between these two places by public tracks 

10 like a pair^ of baskets by their yoke. And even when 
they graze in the same district all the year, yet the 
seasons make a difference to their times of feeding, 
for in summer they go forth to feed as the day is 
breaking, since then the dewy grass is sweeter than 
the drier herbage of noon. When the sun is well up,^ 
the shepherds drive them forth to drink, that by 
thus refreshing them they may make them eager 

1 1 again to feed. During the noon-tide heats, they 
are brought beneath the shade of rocks and spread- 
ing trees that they may cool down until the heat 
abates. In the cool evening air they feed them again 
until sun-set. When feeding sheep you should drive 
them so that they have their backs turned to the sun, 
for in a sheep the head^ is the weakest part. A 
short while after sunset they are taken to drink, 
and then fed again until it grows dark; for after 
sunset the sweetness of the grass will be a second 
time renewed.* This way of feeding is generally 

' Sirpiculos. Possibly connected with sirpea which Varro 
defines (L. L. v, 39) : Sirpea quae virgis sirpatur^ id est colli- 
gando implicatur in qua stercus aliudve quid vchitur. The 
iugum (yoke) is the Greek aaCsXa or dvaipopevf:, used to carry 
buckets, pails, etc. 

^ Prima luce. With this passage compare Virj^il's beautiful 
paraphrase (Georg., iii, 324-338), and Columella's directions 
concerning the feeding of sheep (vii, 3, 23). 

* Caput. Columella, vii, 3, 24: Si quidem plurimum refert ut 
ne pascentium capita sint adversa soli, 

* Redintegrahit. Perhaps the translation should run, " will 
again refresh them," though one suspects that redintegrabitur 



I 



I50 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

practised from the rising of the Pleiads to the 

12 autumnal equinox. In places where the harvest 
has just been got, it is a good thing to drive them 
on to the corn-fields, for a double reason : they get 
fat on the fallen ears, and by trampling the straw 
and by dunging they improve the crops for the 
following year. The other modes of feeding in 
winter and spring-time differ from this in that they 
drive the sheep out to pasture only when the hoar- 
frost has evaporated, and feed them throughout the 
whole day, thinking it enough to take them once 
only to drink, at noon. 

13 So much for the different ways of feeding. What 
I am now about to say relates to breeding. The 
rams which you mean to use for this purpose 
should be separated from the flock two months^ 
before, and given a more generous allowance of 
food. When they return from grazing to their 
stalls, if barley is given them they grow stronger 
and more capable of enduring fatigue. 

The best time for their service is from the setting 
of Arcturus'' to the setting of Aquila, for those that 

not redintegrahit should be in the text, Cf. Vergil (Georg., iii, 

336): 

Solis ad occasum cumfrigidus aera Vesper 

Temper at et saUus rejicit iam roscida Luna. 

Varro (iii, 7, 6) uses redintegrare in the sense of "refresh": 
quod libera aere, cum exierint in agros, redintegrentur. 

^ Bimestri tempore. Cf. Geoponica, xviii, 3, where Varro is 
closely followed throughout the chapter. 

■^ Ah Arcturi occasu. Pliny (N. H., viii, 47) gives precise 
dates — from 13th May to 23rd July. 



Ill OF SHEEP 151 

are conceived later than this grow up small and 

14 weak. A sheep is pregnant for 150 days. Thus 
birth takes place at the end of autumn, when the 
air is temperate, and the grass, called forth by 
the first showers, is beginning to spring up. As 
long as the ram is serving there must be no change 
in the water, ^ as a change makes the wool streaky 
in colour, and damages the womb. When all the 
ewes have conceived, you must again separate the 
rams from the flock, for' by pestering sheep already 
pregnant they do them harm. Again you must not 
let ewes under two years old be covered, for if they 
are, what is born of them is of no use, and the 
mothers themselves are harmed. There is none 
better for breeding than a three-year-old ewe. Ewes 
are sometimes protected from the male by fastening 
behind them small baskets made of rushes or some 
other material. They are, however, more easily 
kept safe if fed apart. 

15 As to the rearing of lambs: so soon as the ewes 
begin to bear they are driven into stables set apart 
for the purpose, and in them the new-born lambs 
are put close to the fire until they have gained 
strength. The ewes are then kept in these stables 

' Eadem aqua uti. Aristotle (Hist. An., iii, 12), discussing 
the change of colour in animals, says: kox trepi tuq dxdac 
2' iariv vcuto iroWaxov roiavra^ d irivovTa cat dxivaavTU fitra Tt)v 
-Kociv T(k irpoftara^ fjUXavag ytvvCJm Toiii apvazy k.t.X. 

* lam. So Keil for the reading of the MSS. ita. But the 

I latter seems to make excellent sense: "they do harm to the 
ewes which have thus become pregnant, by pestering them," 



152 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

two or three days, until the lambs learn to recognize 
their mothers and get their fill of food. Next, when 
the mothers go out with the flock to graze, the 
lambs are kept at home, and when the mothers are 
brought back to them towards evening, they are 
suckled by them, and then again separated, lest the 
mothers should trample' on them in the night. This 
procedure is repeated in the morning, before the 
mothers go out to graze, that the little lambs may 
i6 get a good meal ' of milk. When about ten days 
have elapsed, stakes are driven into the ground, and 
to these the lambs are fastened at some distance 
from one another, by strings made of rind or some 
other smooth material, lest by running about all 
day and colliding with one another the frail little 
things knock the skin off a limb. If a lamb will not 
come to its mother's udder, you must put it there, 
and smear its lips with butter ^ or hog's lard, and 
give its lips the savour^ of milk. A few days after 

^ Conculcentur. Cf. Geoponica {loc. ciL). 

* Satulli, a diminutive from satur. The fondness for dimin- 
utives, a characteristic of rustic Latin, is strong in modern 
Italian. This word satulliis= Italian satollo, and Varro's word, 
quoted by Nonius, satullare ^ItsXiSin satollare. 

^ Buturo. Pliny (N. H. xxviii, 9) describes butter-making, 
and tells one a good deal about butter. "Amongst barbarous 
nations it is highly esteemed as a food." " Hog's lard comes 
next to it in merit." *' It may be used instead of oil " (xxviii, 
10), and is a " capital remedy if you happen to have swallowed 
a leech." *' It is astringent, fattening, emollient, and purga- 
tive." But it is difficult to understand why the lambs' lips are 
to be smeared with it ! 

* Olfacere labra. The text must be corrupt here. Olfacere 



II] OF SHEEP 153 

- ^u should give them ground vetch or young grass 
.'ore they go out to graze, and also when they 
t return. And in this manner they are reared until 
* cy reach four months. Some people meanwhile 
not milk the mothers at these times. They do 
il better who do not milk them at all the whole 
le, as they then give more wool and bear more 
nbs. When the lambs are weaned care must be 
:en lest, missing the mother's udder, they pine 
A ay. So in rearing them you must make the loss 
more easy for them by good feeding, and must take 
:e that they do not suffer at all from cold or heat. 
When, having forgotten milk, the lamb ceases to 
Imiss its mother, then, but not till then, should you 
let it join the flock. Lambs must not be castrated 
before they are five months old, nor before the ex- 
treme heat or cold has abated. The rams preferred 
for service are those which come from dams that 
usually bear twins. ^ 

OMkes no sense. Schneider in his index gives it the meaninp^ 
;>f wpoeo9fpaivea9aif but this, in the only place I can find it, 
Geoponica, xix, 2, means to '* bring to smell." One would 
hMe expected madefacere or something of the kind. Colu- 

lUa (vii, 3, 17) says that the teats of the mother should be 
pmsed and a few drops of milk squeezed between the parted 
B|lt of the lamb, uberibus ad movcri^ turn etiam eius diductum 
It pressis humectare pupillis. Madefacere is used by Varro, 
iy 4, 15, and iii, 10, 7. If in the MS. the ma were obliterated, 
i^acere might easily be altered to olfacere by one of the canes 
\^tam misere Varr<mem dilaceraruntf as Schneider calls the 
oonriitB. 

• Otminos, Aristotle (H. A. vi, 19) says that " sheep or 



154 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

In general a similar treatment should be followed | 
with '* jacketed" ^ sheep, such as those of Tarentum ^ , 
and Attica, which are protected by skin jackets, so i 
that their wool may not be soiled, as dirt prevents 
it from being properly dyed, washed, and bleached. ^ 
19 Greater care is taken that the pens and stables of, 
these sheep may be clean than in the case of those 
with coarse wool, the stable being paved to prevent 
urine from collecting anywhere in it. They are 
given whatever they like to eat, such as fig-leaves, 
straw, grape-skins, bran, in moderate quantities, so 
that they may eat neither too much nor too little, 
as either extreme prevents them from putting on 
flesh. For this purpose the best food is lucerne ' 

goats produce twins, If they are well fed, or if the ram or he-' 
goat is accustomed to get twins or the mother to bear them." 

^ In ovibus pellitis. Cf. Pliny (N. H. viii, 47): Ovium 
summa genera duOy tectum et colonicum, illud molUus^ hoc in 
pascuo delicatius quippe cum tectum ruhis vescatur^'*^ where 
tectum=pelUtum. The delicate sheep with fine wool, such as 
those of Megara, Attica, and Tarentum, were protected' 
against the cold and dirt by jackets made of skin. Diogenes' 
the Cynic (Cf. Diogenes Laertius in vita Diogenis) when he 
was in Megara noticed that the children went about naked,' 
while the rams were clothed, and remarked that it was evid- 
ently better to be a Megarian's ram than his child ! 

^ Tarentum. Festus, in a much mutilated text, appears tc 
say that a Tarentine sheep was worth about a pound sterling 

^ Medica. Columella (ii, 11, 2) praises it extravagantly 
"One sowing lasts ten years; it gives generally four, some 
times six cuttings in the year, enriches the land, fattens al 
kinds of lean cattle, and cures such as are sick. Two-thirds o 
an acre of it will feed, and feed well, three horses for a whol 



OF SHEEP 155 

snail-clover, for it fattens them readily and 

Aices milk. 

^ to the health of the flock there are many 
ts to be noted; but these, as I said before, the 

v-master has set down in a book. He also 

ies with him what is necessary for the medical 
ment of the flock. The question of numbei 

tins for discussion. Some people make it greater, 
rs less, for there is no one scale indicated by 
re. In Epirus nearly all of us take care to have 
less than one man for each hundred of the 

^h-coated variety, and two for each hundred of 

"jacketed " sheep. 

' Pliny (N. H., xvili, 16) describes \ts appearance (stmtlis 

7o/io, caule foliisque geniculata : quicquid in caule assurgity 

c&ntrahuntur). According to him it was brought to 

:e by the Medes — whence its name — in the time of 

js. Amphilochus wrote a whole book about It and the 

us. But Aristotle (H. A., iii, 21) states that Medica 

up the milk of animals, especially of ruminants. Tr')c 

^rpof^C h /**>' o^'twvai to yoKa^ oiov »/ Mi/^i/n) troa, kuI fiaXiara 

ft fuipvKdZovai. Palladius (April. Tit., i) repeats Columella, 

id adds that a cyathus full (.082 pint) of seed was enough 

I iow a plot of land 15 ft. by 10 ft. 

i 



156 VARRO ON FARMING [bk 



CHAPTER III 

OF GOATS 

1 Then said Cossinius to him, Long enough has. 
thou bleated, O Roman Faustulus,^ now Hste 
while I tell of goats, I, the Melanthius" of Homei 
born out of season,^ and learn from me how a ma 
should speak without waste of words. 

He who would form a flock of goats must fin 
consider the question of age, buying such as ca 
now yield increase, and of these preferring one the 
has a longer breeding time before it; for a youn 

2 one is more profitable than an old. As to the 
points: see that they be big and strong, having 
smooth body, and thick hair (except when they ai 
hairless — for there are two varities); under the chi^ 

' O Faustule. An allusion to the shepherd foster-father , 
Romulus and Remus. He was the shepherd of Amulius. 

* Melanthio. Melanthius was the goatherd (MeXav^ioc axitoK 
alyutv) of Ulysses, who supplied the suitors with the best of tl 
flock (Od., xvii, 217). For this he was mutilated horribly ar 
killed by Telemachus (xxii, 474). 

' Cordo. Cordus, which means " born out of season," was 
Roman family name (Quintilian, i, 4, 25). Cicero mentions 
L. Cordus — a negotiator Siculus — (Verr., iv, 20). The phra 
Homerico Melanthio Cordo reminds one of Persius's line (v 
11), Maeonides Quintus pavone ex Pythagoreo, where there , 
precisely the same kind of pun as here, for ** Quintus " is' 
Roman praenomen and means "fifth," and Ennius (so tl. 
Scholiast) was fifth from the peacock — the order being, pe 
cock, Euphorbus, Homer, Pythagoras, Ennius. 



OF GOATS 157 

ought to have two teat-like appendages,^ as 
J which have them are the most fertile. The 
r should be large, that so they may give milk 

rich and abundant. The he-goat must have 
-T soft hair, preferably white, neck and throat 
:, and larynx' comparatively long. The flock 
es better if it be not a made-up collection, but 
i^le flock' of old companions. 
> for the breed, I say what Atticus said when 
:ng of sheep, with this difference — the race 
leep is relatively slow-going, inasmuch as 
jy are of gentler* temperament, while the goat 
are quicker of movement. About their nimble- 
Cato in his book **Of Origins," writes these 
**On Mount Soracte ' and Mount Fiscel- 

Mammulas. Columella (vli, 6, 2) calls them little warts : 
• cui sub maxiUis binae verruculae collo dependent optimus 
\r. 

Gur^lione {yapyaptiav). The Geoponica, xviii, 9, trans- 
this lipoyxoq. It is evidently the larynx — prominent in 
In the same passage it is said that the goats should be 
fc. ».^., shagg)'. The word molliori does not seem 
ht Perhaps melioris is the true reading. 
j Grex una. G>lumella says (vii, 6, 5): Atque uhi caprae 
comparantur^ melius est unum gregem totum quam ex 
\^rQms particulatim mercari^ and gives as reasons ut nee in 
separatim laciniae diducantur^ ei in caprili maiore con- 
']iia quietae consistant. 

Placidiores. Aristotle (H. A. ix, 3): at ydp Site fiaXXov 
jTprf^^ovcn Kai trpoaipxavrai irpoQ dvOputirovc. 

I Soracti. For a most interesting account of Mount Soracte 
lint Oreste) see Dennis, "Cities and Cemeteries of Etruria," 



158 VARRO ON FARMING [bk 

lus^ there are wild she-goats that will leap more tha: 
sixty feet from a rock." I quote this because jus 
as domestic sheep are sprung from wild ones, so th 
goats which we feed are sprung from the wild kinc 
From them the island of Caprasia," near Italy, take 
its name. 

4 Since among she-goats such as bear twins are th 
best breed, it is customary to choose for breedin 
purposes the males sprung from these. Som 
people, too, take care to have she-goats from th 
island of Melia,' as it is thought that there the bi^ 
gest and handsomest kids are born. 

5 As to buying, I do not* give the same formula £•, 



^ Fiscello. Varro (li, i, 5) speaks of the wild goats ne; 
Mount Fiscellus. Here the river Nar (now Nera) had its sour 
— a river whose waters are still white and still vitiattcs odo 
sulfure (Claudian i, 256). Reate (Rieti), Varro's birthplace, 
on this river. 

^ Caprasia. Now Cabrera (goat island), a little south 
Minorca. 

^ Melia. Probably (Scaliger) the island of Melos, in 1 
Cretan Sea. I have searched the geographers but can find r 
where any connection between Melos and goats mentione 
But the mountainous nature of the country is well suited 
them. 

* Aliter dico atque fit. Atticus had before (ii, 2, 6) mention 
the ** ancient formula" used in buying sheep. In this tl 
were guaranteed to be healthy and from a healthy flock, i 
this chapter, § 3, Cossinius says that he agrees with Attic? 
about the breed of goats ; and here that the formula quoted / 
Atticus for buying sheep will not serve for buying goats al 
is in point of fact not used. 

This sense, which seems clear, has apparently escaped all i-3 



•1 OF GOATS 159 

icus did for sheep, and the usage is different, for 

one of sound mind guarantees goats sound, as 

jy are never without fever.^ Accordingly the war- 

\z required contains only a few stipulations taken 

rn the general formula, and Manilius^ has left on 

ord the following: ** Do you guarantee these 

-goats as being to-day able to eat and drink 

^perly, and that the purchase is legal?" There 

a remarkable fact about goats, related also by 

chelaus:' several shepherds more observant than 

rest assert that they do not breathe through 

ir nostrils like other animals, but through their 

With regard to the second four divisions, my 
inion about the feeding of goats is as follows. 

rommentators. The objection to the translation is, of course, 
'hat aliter atque would in normal Latin mean "otherwise 
ihan," but there is no reason why the passage should not mean 
r.ico atque fit aliter. I say differently and the practice is differ- 
j nt. This agrees perfectly with what follows. 
I * Sine febri sunt. Geoponica, xviil, 9: ^vcucdc an TrvpirTU, 

bo on to say that "if the fever leaves them they die." 
er interesting fact mentioned in the same chapter is 
Miat a he-goat will not run away if you cut off his beard ! 

• Manilius. Manius (not Marcus) Manilius, a celebrated 
ilirisconsult, the author of the Leges M anil ianae (venalium 
\endendorum). He was Consul 149 B.C. 

' ■ Archelaus. Pliny (N. H., xviii, 3) mentions him among 
(tie kings who have written on agriculture, and— viii, 50 — 
^redits him with the statement in the text Aurihus eas spirare 
)4m naribus, nee umquam febri carere Archelaus auctor est. 

Aristotle (H. A., i, xi) says: " Alcmaeon does not speak. the 
Vuth when he asserts that goats breathe through their ears." 



i6o VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

The flock is better housed if the stable faces the 
winter sunrise, for goats are chilly ^ animals. It, like 
most stables, should be paved with stone or bricks^ to 
prevent the goat-house from being damp and muddy. 
When they have to sleep out of doors, pens also 
facing the same quarter of the heavens should be 
strewn with brushwood, that they may not get 
dirty. In the feeding of this kind of cattle much 
the same attention must be given to them as to 

7 sheep, though they have their own peculiarities, as 
they are happier in woodland glades than in mea- 
dows. For they eagerly pluck their food from wild 
shrubs, and on cultivated land nip off small 
branches. For this reason goats get their name 
(caprae) from carpere (to pluck). Hence, too, in the 
text of an agreement for letting a farm, an excep- 
tive clause is generally found forbidding the tenant 
to graze on the farm the offspring of the she-goat. 
For the she-goat's teeth are hostile to the growing 
crops, and even the astronomers, while admitting 
them to the sky, have shut them out from the circle 'l 
of the twelve signs — the two kids and the she-goat ' 
being not far from the bull.^ 

8 With regard to breeding: At the close of 

^ Alsiosum. Aristotle (H. A., ix, 3): ual 5'ai aiyfg ^vffpi- ! 
yoTspai Tutv oiojv. 

' Testa (Vitruvius, ii, S) = lateres cocli, kiln-baked bricks. 

^ Sunt duo haedi . . . a tauro. These words Ursinus, Gesner, 
and Schneider would expunge from the text, thinking them to 
have been taken by a commentator from ii, i, 8. But Varro 
frequently repeats himself. 



II] OF GOATS i6i 

autumn (about loth November) the males are 
driven from the flock which is on the plain to goat- 
houses, as has been mentioned in the case of 
rams.' Those goats which have conceived are de- 
livered after the fourth month ' in the springtime. 

As to rearing: As soon as the kids are three 
months old, they are put into the flock and begin to 
form a part of it. 

What am I to say of their health, when they are 
never healthy? I will just mention the one fact 
that the guardians of a flock have certain written 
directions as to what remedies to use against 
some of their diseases and against wounds, which 
are of frequent occurrence in their case, as they 
fight with one another with their horns and feed 
in thorny places. 

There remains for discussion the question of num- 
ber. This is smaller in the case of a flock of goats 
than of sheep, as she-goats are full of mischief,^ 
and prone to scatter, whilst sheep are gregarious 
in nature and huddle together into one place. 
Hence in the Ager Gallicus^ men keep many in 
preference to large flocks, for in those which are 
large disease often breaks out suddenly, and brings 

' Ut in arietibus dictum. Cf. ii, 2, 13. 

* Post quartum mensem. Aristotle, H. A., vi. 9: kvh U Tzivry 
fSgva^ KOLi irpo^oTOv xai a'lX. 

I Pliny, N. H., viii, 50: Concipiunt Norvembri mense ut Martio 
I pariant. 

* Lascivae. Cf. Columella, vii, 6, 7. 

* Ager Gnllicus. Cf. note, i, 14, 4. 

M 



i62 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

[o them to destruction. A flock of about fifty is con- 
sidered big enough. And these conclusions are 
supported, it is thought, by what happened to 
Gaberius, a Roman eques. He owned i,ooo iiigera ^ 
(700 acres) on the outskirts of Rome, and hearing 
from a certain goat-herd, who had brought to the 
city ten she-goats, that each of them brought 
him in a denarius a day, he bought a thou- 
sand she-goats, expecting to get from his estate a 
thousand denarii (;£"32) a day. So far was he out 
in his reckoning, that in a short time he lost them 
all through disease. However, in the country of 
the Sallentini and about Casinum they graze flocks 
containing as many as a hundred ^ she-goats. 

As to the proportion of males to females, there 
is much the same difference of opinion, some, like 
myself, providing one he-goat to ten females, others, 
like Menas,^ one to fifteen; others again, such as 
Murrius, one to twenty. 

^ Mille iugerum. Varro, il, i, 26, has mille naves. In every 
other place where the word occurs In the singular in this work, 
it Is a neuter noun. Aulus Gellius (i, 16) gives many examples 
of Its use as a declinable neuter noun, quoting from Cicero 
(Mil. 53), Mille hominum versabatur, and Lucilius (Bk. xv), 
Hunc mini possum quivicerit atque duobtis \\ Campanus sonipes, 
etc., and again from Lucilius (Bk. viil), Tu milli numtnum 
poles uno quaerere centum. 

2 Ad centenas. Columella (vli, 6, 5) makes this number the 
superior limit, though, he says, there is no objection to your 
penning 1,000 sheep together. Sed numerum huius generis 
maiorem quam centum capitum sub uno clauso non expedit 
habere^ cum lanigerae mille pariter commode stabulentur. 

' M^nas is possibly the freedman of whom Suetonius 



II] OF PIGS 163 

CHAPTER IV 

OF PIGS 

But who ^ next sails out from an Italian port to 
discuss the subject of pigs? Scrofa's peculiar fit- 
ness to discuss this question is, however, indicated 
by his nick-name Scrofa. Said Tremellius (Scrofa) 
to him. You don't seem to know why I am called 
Scrofa. So, in order that you and our friends sitting 
near you may learn the reason, let me tell you that 
the surname connected with pigs does not belong 
to my gens^ and that I do not claim descent from 
Eumaeus.^ My grandfather was the first to be 

speaks (Augusti Vita, 74) : Valerius Messala tradit, neminem 
umquam libertinonim adhibitum ah eo caenae, excepto Mena^ sed 
asserto in ingenuitatem post proditam Sexti Pompei classem. 
The Menas who first brought barbers to Rome, 300 B.C., was 
a Sicilian. Cf. Pliny (N. H., vii, 59). 

» Sed quis e portu, etc. Many ingenious emendations have 
been proposed of these words, the best being Schneider's : 
Sed quis e porculatoribus Italicis. But none is needed. The 
last two speakers, Atticus and Cossinius, were called by Varro 
(ii, 1, 2) semi-graeci and Epirotici pecuariae athletae. Atticus 
(Athenian) was a Greek cognomen, and Cossinius had just 
described himself as Homericus Melanthius Cordus. Now it 
is suggested that a genuine Italian hailing from an Italian 
harbour should treat the subject of pigs, not Greeks from 
Athens or Epirus. 

* Eumaeus was the swine-herd {SXoq v<popl36c — <rv(3u}rric opxanoq 
Mpwv. — Od., xiv, beginning) and faithful servant of Ulysses 
and looked after his 600 brood sows in Ithaca. He received 
and fed Ulysses when he returned home. 



i64 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

called Scrofa. He, being quaestor to Licinius 
Nerva/ who was praetor in the province of Mace- 
donia, had been left in command of the army until 
the return of the praetor, whereupon the enemy, 
thinking that they had a chance of victory, began 
2 to assault the camp. My grandfather, as he urged 
the soldiers to take up their arms and sally forth 
against the enemy, said that he would scatter them 
as a sow scatters ^ young pigs. And scatter them 
he did, for in that battle he routed the enemy so 

^ A. Ltctnius Nerva was one of the envoys (169 B.C.) sent 
by the Senate to Macedonia to collect information about the 
general state of affairs for L. Aemilius Paullus (Consul de- 
signate) who was about to take the field against King Per- 
seus (Livy, xliv, 18). 

A. Licinius Nerva is mentioned by Livy (xlv, 44) as one of 
the six praetors created 167 B.C., a year after the battle of Pydna 
and the deposition of Perseus — so that Varro's story does not 
relate to the Macedonian war. Macedon, moreover, did not be- 
come a Roman province before 148 B.C. In 142 B.C. a pretender 
to the name of Alexander (a brother of Philip) headed a revolt 
against the Roman power, which was promptly crushed. Prob- 
ably Nerva was praetor for the second time in 142 B.C. , and it was 
in this rising that L. Tremellius gained his cognomen Scrofa. 

2 Disiecturum. Cf. Plautus (True, ii, 2, 13) : lam Hercle 
ego hie tey viuUer, quasi sus catuloSy pedibus proteram. Macro- 
bius (Saturn, i, 6) makes Tremellius win his name of Scrofa 
in a very different and much less creditable way. His slaves 
had stolen and killed a neighbour's sow. His house was 
surrounded and restitution of the scrofa demanded. Tre- 
mellius heard that the sow was hidden under his wife's bed,' 
she being in bed at the time. He gave permission for his house 
to be searched, and when the bedroom was reached swore that 
he had no other sow in the house save that under the bed- 



II] OF PIGS 165 

decisively that the praetor Nerva was on that 
account saluted as ** Imperator," and my grand- 
father gained his nick-name, being thereafter called 
*' Scrofa." Neither my great-grandfather, nor any 
of the Tremellii before him, was ever named Scrofa, 
and I am one of seven of my gens who were one 
after another praetors. However, I do not shirk 
saying what I know about pigs, for I have loved 
farming from my youth, and the subject, moreover, 
will have an interest shared in common by you 
gentlemen and myself, as we are all of us great 
stock-breeders. For which of us farmers does not 
keep pigs, and has not heard our fathers say that 
that man is a lazy spendthrift who buys at the 
butcher's the flitch ^ hanging up in the larder, in- 
stead of growing it on his own farm? 

To continue, the man who wants a good herd 
must firstly choose pigs of the right age, secondly 
of the right type; that is, having large limbs/ but 

clothes. The searchers withdrew and Tremellius was ever 
afterwards called "Scrofa." 

' Succidiam. Cf. Varro (L. L., v, 32): Succidia ah suibus 
ctiedendis; nam id pectis primum occidere coeperunt domini et 
ut servarent sallere. Cato (Aulus Gellius, xiii, 24) makes use of 
the expression succidias humanas facere=^^ Ko butcher men," 
and Cicero (De Senec, xvi) makes Cato say: lam hortum 
ipsi agricolae succidiam alteram appellant. The farmers them- 
selves call the garden their second flitch. 

* Cum amplitudine membrorum. Cf. Geoponica (xix, 6): 
Xttr fijty BffXtiag x^tp^^C coKifxd^nvai tolq irapafitjKfoTepac xai irtpioxijv 
• X""Tac Kai fuynXai roll aufiaai, iKTui riiQ Kt^aXfjg xai twv ■j^oCuiv. 

Columella (vii, 9, i) says that the boars should be 



i66 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

small feet and heads. They are better of one uni- 
form colour rather than parti-coloured. See that 
the boars have the same qualities, and in any case 

4 that they have big shoulders. Pigs of a good breed 
are recognized by their shape, by the size of the 
litters, and by the district whence they come. By 
their shape, when boar and sow are handsome ; by 
the litters, when these are big ; and by the district, 
when they come from one where the breed is big, 

5 not small. They are generally bought with this 
stipulation : '* Do you guarantee that these sows are 
sound, that the possession of them is good in law, 
that they are warranted ^ against claims for damages, 



"square" rather than long, but the sows as long of body as 
possible. 

^ Noxis que praestari. One would have expected either a 
noxis praestari as in Cicero (Ad Div., i, 4) a vi praestare nihil 
possum^ or noxis solutas as in the Digests. 

If any one of the pigs had done damage when with one 
owner, and then had been transferred to another, the action 
would lie against the latter. As was the case with a slave : Cf. 
Justinian (Inst., iv, tit. 8 — De noxalibus actionibus) : Nam si 
servus tuus noxam commiserit: quamdiu in tua potestate sity 
tecum est actio. Si autem in alterius potestatem pervenerit: cum 
illo incipit actio esse. The phrase may also have reference to 
bad habits contracted before purchase, which might lead to 
the loss or damage of the animals. Cf. Alexander ab Alex- 
andro, iii, 14 (about the middle) : Quod si periculosam rem 
antea facere servus consuerat . . . tuque vendito a te servo id 
imperasti quod sine periculo exsequi nequibat, censuit Paulus 
teneri venditorem oh necem damnumve si quam in perniciem 
servus incurrisset. I now incline to the latter view, and would 
translate, " warranted free from dangerous habits." 



II] OF PIGS 167 

ind that they do not come from a diseased herd?" 
-^ome people add *' and have got through fever and 
diarrhoea." ' 

For the pasturing of this kind of stock a damp 

place is suitable, for it delights both in water and 

in mud. And * this is the reason, they say, why a 

wolf which has got hold of a sow drags it to the 

water, as its teeth cannot bear the heat of the flesh. 

i'his animal (the pig) feeds especially on acorns — 

ailing them, on beans, barley, and other grains, 

or these not only produce fat, but also give the 

lesh a pleasant flavour. 

In summer they are driven out to pasture in the 
morning before the heat begins to a shady place, 
where there must be water. In the afternoon, when 
the great heat has abated, they are allowed to graze 
again. In the winter-time we do not drive them out 

* Faria. Nonius (Foriolus) : Foriolus, qui for ia facile emittat, 

soluti scilicet ventris. He defines foria as stercora liquidiora. 

Aristotle (Hist. An., viii, 21) says that pigs suffer from three 

diseases: (i) fipayxoQ, characterized by inflammatory swelling 

>f the throat and jaws ; (2) fever (xpavpa) accompanied by head- 

iche and dullness, which may be cured, but usually kills in 

ihrec or four days ; and (3) diarrhoea, ' ' which appears to be 

incurable." Avo 0' dXX' iari, Xiyfrai Si xpavpav dfi<p<jj wv t6 fikv 

-fpov koTi KKpaXrJQ irovoQ xai (3dpog . . . to d' 'iripoVf 7) KoiXia pel, 

• " Toirro fUv coKiT dviarov dvat. Varro obviously alludes to 

2) and (3). xpavpa in (2) is, to judge from the rest of Aristotle's 

:ription, a scrofulous disease accompanied by fever. Colu- 

rlla (vii, 10) and the Geoponica (xix, 7) also discuss the 

"iubject. 

^^ ' Itaqtie^ etc. The meaning is, of course, swine love to bathe 



W^ 



i68 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

to feed until the hoar-frost has evaporated, and the 
ice has melted. 

7 For breeding, the boars should be separated from 
the herd two months before they are admitted to 
the sows. The best time for their admission is from 
Favonius to the vernal equinox, as thus the sow 
brings forth her young in the summer,^ for she 
goes four months and then litters when there is 
plenty of pasturage on the land. The sows should 
not be covered before they are a year old; it is 
better to wait until they are twenty months, that 
they may be two years old when they become 
mothers. It is said that after they have begun ^ to 
breed they can go on well up to the seventh year. 

8 At the time of covering they are driven forth into 
miry paths ^ and muddy pools that they may wallow 

^ Aestate pariat. The Geoponica (xix, 6) follow Varro. 
dpiarrj Se ijpa . . . aTrb (^f<pvpov irvofjg eittg tapivijg hrjixepiag^ uxjTf 
ykvtaOai Kara to OepoQ rbv toketov. Aristotle (H. A., v, 14) says 
that the young pigs born in summer are the worst, being 
puny and thin, and that the best time for birth is the be- 
ginning of winter. This is no doubt true in the case of a hot 
climate. 

^ Cum coeperunt Columella (vii, 9, 3) : Femina sus hahetur 
ad partus edendos idonea fere usque in annos septem, quae 
quanta foecundior est celerius senescit. 

^ Lutosos limites. Limites does not seem to be the right 
word. Schneider suggests lamas, bogs, which the scholiast 
to Horace (Ep., i, 13, 10) defines as lacunas maiores continentes 
aquam pluviam, quoting from Ennius. 

Silvorum saltus, latebras, lamasque lutoras. 

The word was rare, and would probably have been unintel- 



iij OF PIGS 169 

in the mire, which is as much rest and refreshment 
to them, as bathing is to a human being. When the 
sows haveall conceived, the boars are again separated 
from the herd. A boar of eight ^ months begins to 
procreate, and remains able to do so adequately up 
to three years old; then he goes down-hill,^ until 
finally he reaches the butcher, the appointed go- 
between for pork and people. 

The pig is called in Greek Ig, formerly dugj from 
the verb dvsL-., to sacrifice, for when men first sacri- 
ficed animals, they began apparently with the race 
of pigs. Traces of this remain in the sacrifice of a 
pig at the initiation^ in the Eleusinian mysteries; 
the killing of one at the initiation of peace when 
a treaty * is struck; and in the fact that at the begin- 

-,ible to a copyist. Lama in modern Italian means a swamp. 
l^ante (Inf., xx, 99) : Non molto ha corso, che irova una lama. 

* Octo mensum. Columella (vii, 9, 3) says six. Possunt 
tamen etiam semestres implere feminam. 

* // retro. He deteriorates, as in Vergil's oft-quoted lines : 

Sic omnia fatis 
In peius mere et retro sublapsa referri. 

Ccrfumella (vii, 9, 4) says that boars, when three or four years 
<rfd, are castrated and then fattened, bimi aut quadrimi cos- 
trmUur ut possint pinguescere; Aristotle (H. A., ix, 50) that 
ovariotomy was performed on sows for the same purpose. 
Icri/ivirat ii Kai i) Kairpiit rwv 9t]\iiCjv vutv ioart . . . TriaivKrOai raxtojC- 

* Iniiiis Cereris. did rb iv roTf: ^vtrrrip'toiQ tTiq ArjfirjTpof; Ovtadai 
XMJpovc. Scholiast on Aristophanes' Achar., 729 (764). 

* Foedus. Cf. Vergil, viii, 641 : Stabant; et caesa iungebant 
dera porca^ where Servius {ad loc.) says that Vergil ought 

* have written porco (as Varro here) : faUo auiem ait porca ; 
'iam ad hoc genus sacrificii porcxxs adhibebatur. According to 



I70 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

ning of a wedding among the ancient princes and 
exalted personages of Etruria the newly made 
husband and wife at their union first sacrifice a 
lo pig.^ The ancient Latins, too, as well as the 
Greeks, seem to have had the same custom ; for the 
women of our country (especially nurses) call that 
part which in girls distinguishes their sex porcus 
(pig), the Greek women x^ipov^ (pig)) meaning that 
the term is a worthy symbol of marriage. The race 
of pigs is, they say, a gift of nature designed to 
grace the banquet, and so life^ was given them, 
just as salt is, to keep their flesh good. 

Athenaeus men first learnt the joys of roast pork through 
sacrifice. Lamb, In his essay on roast pork, assigns another 
and an equally credible origin. 

' Porcum immolant. Athenaeus (Deipn., iii) says that the 
ancient Greeks used to sacrifice a pig to Venus, and Aristo- 
phanes (Ach., 758) has : 

AI. ciXX' ovyl xoT/Oog r' ^A(}>podiTr], Overai. 
ME. ov xoipoQ ^ Acpp 01)17 q. ; fiovq. ya daifiovwv. 

But this is a mere scurrility ; and neither passage helps us to 
a knowledge of the Etruscan custom about which I can find 
nothing. 

^ Xo~ipovy as frequently in Aristophanes. Cf. Scholiast on 
Acharnians, 737 (773) : Tovto frjciv tTrtt kuI to yvvaiKeiop aldolov 
Xoipov IkoXovv 01 "EWrjveg. 

^ Anima. Cicero (Nat. D., ii, 64) ascribes this saying to the 
Stoic Chryslppus. Sus vero, quid habet praeter escam? Cui 
quidem, ne putresceret, animam ipsam pro sale datum dicit esse 
Chrysippus. He repeats the saying (De Fin., v, 13), Pliny 
(N. H., viii, 51) says that " the pig is the stupidest of animals, 
and it was thought, not without humour, that life was given 
to it instead of salt." 



I 



II] OF PIGS 171 

The Gauls make of them flitches of much excel- 
lence and great size. Their excellence is shown by 
the fact that at the present time there are brought to 
Rome every year Comacine^ and Cavaran hams and 
II shoulders. Touching the size of the Gallic flitches, 
Cato writes in these terms: *' In Italy (Lombardy), 
the Insubres salt three or four thousand flitches; 
the sow gets so fat than she cannot unaided keep 

• Comacinae et Cavarae. Comaci (?) and Cavari were, prob- 
ably, both tribes of Gallia Narbonensis, as the latter certainly 
were (Pliny, N. H., iii, 4). But the text here is very doubtful, 
and Schneider, Scaliger, and others have proposed many 
emendations with little to support them. Strabo (bk. iv) says 
that the best hams come from the Sequani, oQtv at KoXKiarai 
Topixfiai Tuiv vtitjjv Kptatv ftf ttjv 'Pa>/i)/v KaraKofiil^ovTai. Schneider 
proves conclusively that the pemae were the hind-legs, the 
petasones the fore-legs. 

This is Cato's (c. 162) recipe for salting hams: "When you 
have bought your hams, cut off the hoofs. Take half a peck 
of Roman salt ground fine for each. Lay salt over the bottom 
of the tub; then put in a ham, the skin-side looking down- 
wards. Cover it over with salt. Then put another ham on 
top, taking care that meat does not touch meat. So deal with 
them all. When you have got them all snug put salt over 
them, so that no meat is visible, and make the surface level. 
When they have been in salt five days take them all out, and 
the salt with them. Then put them in again in reverse order 
so that those which were before on top are now at the bottom. 
Cover them over and make them snug in the same way as 
before. After twelve days at most, take the hams out, rub off 
all the salt and hang them up in a draught for two days. 0\\ 
the third day wipe them well over with a sponge and rub 
them with oil. Hang them for two days in the smoke. Then 
take them down, rub them well with a mixture of oil and 
vinegar and hang them up in the meat larder." 



172 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

her feet nor advance a step. And so if one wants 
to move them from place to place, one puts them 
into a wagon." Atilius of Spain, a trustworthy- 
author of wide experience and much learning, used 
to assert that once when a pig had been killed in 
Lusitania in further Spain, there were sent as a pre- 
sent to the senator L. Volumnius,^ two of its ribs 
with the meat attached, which weighed twenty-three 
pounds, and that in that pig the depth of flesh from 

12 skin to bone was one and a quarter feet. I said to 
him : A fact quite as strange was once told me in 
Arcadia, and I went, I remember, to look at a 
sow which was not only incapable of getting up 
owing to its fat, but had actually allowed a shrew- 
mouse to eat away some of its flesh and make a 
nest there and give birth to young ones. I am in- 
formed that the same thing has occurred in Venetia ' 
also. 

13 With regard to breeding, the fertility of a sow is 
generally estimated from the first litter, as she does 
not vary much in later ones. As to the rearing 

1 L. Volumnio. Cicero (Ad Div., vii, 32) mentions him as 
one of his intimate friends, adduhitavi nuni a Senatore essent 
Voluvmio quocum mihi magnus est usus. 

^ In Vineta. In place of this, which is unintelligible, I have 
translated Victorius's conjecture, in Venetia. Varro (i, 8, 5) 
speaks of vineyards being sometimes so overrun by mice that 
they had to be filled with mouse-traps. In vineto therefore 
suggested itself — but pigs do not live in vineyards ! Scaliger 
remarks about this story that ' ' none need hesitate to believe 
it, as there are people alive to-day who will testify that this 
has happened in the south of France ! " 



II] OF PIGS 173 

of the little pigs, which is called porculatio^ these 
are left with the mother a couple of months; then, 
when they can feed for themselves, are separated 
from her. Pigs born in the winter become thin ^ 
owing to the cold, and because the mothers having 
but little milk, and in consequence finding their 
teats hurt by the young ones' teeth, push them 
away. 

Every sow should have her own sty, and rear her 
own litter only, for she does not refuse to feed 
another's little ones; if, therefore, they get mixed, ^ 
14 the sow becomes worse for breeding. Their year is 
naturally divided into two parts, as they give birth 
twice within the year, a sow being pregnant four 
months, and suckling for two. The sty should be 

* Exiles. The Geoponica (xix, 6) say ** owing to the inclem- 
ency of the weather and the fact that they do not get enough 
milk from their mothers, who push them away, as their teats 
lacking milk are violently squeezed and pulled by the teeth of 
the young ones. As to the teeth, cf. Pliny (N. H., viii, 51): 
Diebus X, circa hrumam statim dentatos nasci Nigidius tradit. 
In winter they are born with teeth. 

* Conturbati. Cf. Geoponica (xix, 6): ware /zr) fiiywaOai 
iXXrikotQ TO. irapd. iiatpSpuv Tucrofifva — lav yap aXA^Xotf ovvava^iyT], 
iiirvarov iiayvuivai ahra tclq TtKovoaQ. If the young of different 
mothers are mixed, it is impossible for the mothers to dis- 
tinguish their own. Columella (vii, 9, 11): Nam facillime 
Porci^ si evaserint haram, tniscent se^ et scrofa cum decubuit 
aeque alieno ac suo praebet ubera. From the last words of this 
passage it is obvious that the non inserted by Keil before 
tupematur is necessary. It was omitted by the scribe no doubt 
owing to the nos oi alienos immediately before it. 

Columella recommends the branding of sow and pigs. 



174 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

made about three ^ feet high, and a little more than 
three feet wide, not any lower than this from the 
ground lest a sow when pregnant should attempt to 
jump out and so miscarry. The height should be 
such that the swineherd can see the whole sty at a 
glance, and prevent any little pig from being 
crushed by its mother; and may also be able to 
clean out the hutch without difficulty. There shoulc 
be a door to the sty, and the threshold ^ shoulc 
be one and a third feet high, to prevent th( 
little pigs from jumping over it when their mothei 

15 goes out. It is the swineherd's duty, every time h( 
cleans out a sty, to throw sand into it or somethinj 
of the kind, which will absorb moisture ; an( 
after a sow has littered, to keep up her strengtl 
with a more generous diet, so that she may be th( 
better able to provide milk. It^ is usual to giv^ 
them about two pounds of barley apiece, soaked 
in water, and this allowance some people double,] 
giving it night and morning, if they have nothinj 

16 else to feed them with. After pigs have been weanec 

. ^ Trium pedum altam. Columella (vii, 9, 10) says four. 

2 Limen inferius. Columella (vii, 9, 13) prescribes in tantai 
altitudinem consurgat quantam possit nutrix evaderCy lactet 
autem supergredi non possit. 

^ In quibus. Keil deletes the in without good reason, I 
think. In quibus, meaning ** and in their case," is good Latin 
and very common in Varro. 

* Aqua madefactas probably means "boiled." Columella 
(vii, 9, 13): Quibus partus submittitur cocto sunt hordeo 
sustinendae. And Aristotle (H. A., vi, 18, 35) prescribes the 
same food — reroicvii^ dk ry vi KpiOdg e^Odg. 



II] OF PIGS 175 

they are called by some people delici^^ and are no 
longer spoken of as ^* sucking-pigs." On the tenth'' 
day after birth they are considered *^ pure," and on 
that account were termed by the ancients sacres, 
because they are said to be then first fit for sacrifice. 
And so in the '* Menaechimi "of Plautus, where the 
scene is laid in Epidamnus, one of the characters, 
thinking a man mad and in need of an expiatory 
sacrifice, asks him, *' What's the price here of 
' sacred ' {s acres) ^ pigs? " 

It is usual to give grape-skins and grape-stalks 
if the farm supplies them. When they have lost the 

* Delici. Derived, no doubt, from delinquo. As relinquo 
^WQs relicuos (Plaut.), which eariy in the first century became 
rclicus^ so from delinquo we may suppose delicuos, which later 
became delicus. This etymology would explain the use of the 
word delicultis by Cato (2, 7), delicula armenta, deliculas oves, 
cattle and sheep quae delinquuntur — are removed, got rid of 
by sale. 

* Decimo die. Pliny (N. H., vlli, 51) says on the fifth day. 
Suis foetus sacHficio die qui n to purus est, pecoris die octavo ^ 
horvis trigesimo. Festus (p. 318) agrees with Varro. 

* Sacres. The lines alluded to by Varro are (Plaut., Men- 
aechm., 289, etc.): 

Adolescens quibus hie pretiis porci veneunt 

Sacres, sinceri? Cy. Nummo. Me. Eum a me accipe 

Jube te piari de mea pecunia 

Nam, ego quidem insanum esse te certo scio 

Qui mihi molesius homini ignoto, quisquis es. 

For the parasitic vowel in Menaechimis (for Menaechmis— 
Mivaix/ioic), compare mina for Greek /xi/a, Tecumessa for 
JtKfiiiffan, etc. 



176 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

name of *^ sucking-pigs " they are called nefrendes^ 
(not-crunchers), from the fact that they are yet 
unable to crunch, that is, crush beans. The word 
porcus is an ancient Greek ^ word, now obsolete, for 
its place has been taken by the word %oipoj. 

On the birth of young ones care is taken that the 
sows drink twice a day, for the sake of their milk. 
A sow ought, they say, to give birth to as many 
pigs as she has teats ; ^ if there are fewer she is not 
likely to be profitable, if more, it portends some- 
i8 thing. The most ancient recorded example of such 
a portent is Aeneas's sow,^ which bore at Lavinium 

^ Nefrendes. Varro's etymology is possibly right. For the 
form of the word compare negoHum, nefastuSy etc. Martial 
(iii, 47) speaks of a sucking-pig as * ' not yet having vanquished 
beans." 

Illic coronam pinguihus gravem turdis 
Leporemque laesum Gallici canis dente 
Nondumque victa lacteumfaha porcum, 

where instead of victa^ fresa (from frendere) is sometimes 
read. 

* Porcus Graecum nomen. TropKOQ, cf. Plut., Popl., 11, and 
Varro, L. L., v, 19 (middle): Porcus nisi si a Graecis quod 
Athenis in lihris sacrormn scriptum est porcae, porco (jropKy, 

TTopKifi). 

^ Quot mammas habeat. According to Pliny (N. H., xi, 41) 
the number varies : haec plures habent, toto ventre duplici 
ordine, ut sues, generosae duodenas^ vulgares binas minus. 

* Sus Aeneae. Cf. Aeneid, iii, 390-393. Servius {ad he.) says 
with regard to the thirty little pigs that they signified the 
thirty years during which Ascanius should reign. Prodigiale 
est hoc, quo signijicatur triginta annis regnaturus esse Ascanius. 
Varro, L. L. , v, cap. 40 : Hinc post triginta annos oppidum 



II] OF PIGS 177 

thirty white little pigs. And in the result what was 
portended did happen, as the men of Lavinium 
founded the town of Alba thirty years later. Of this 
sow and her young ones traces are even now to be 
found, for their likeness in bronze still stands where 
all may see, and the mother's body is shown by the 
priests (as it was, according to them, preserved in 
brine). 
[9 A sow can feed eight' quite little pigs at first; 
when they have grown bigger, a man who knows 
his business generally takes away half the number 
from her, as she cannot supply^ milk enough for 
all, nor can the whole litter get enough food to 

alterum conditur Alba; id ah sue alba nominatum. Haec e 
navi Aeneae quom fugisset Lavinium triginta parit porcos; ex 
hoc prodigio post Lavinium conditum annis triginta haec urbs 
facta, propter colorem suis et loci naturam Alba Longa dictum. 
It will be noticed that Varro's story differs from Vergil's. In 
the former's the sow had escaped from Aeneas's ship. Servius 
{loc. cit.) mentions both stories. Livy (i, 3) states that the 
Tiber was at this time called "Albula." 

* Octonos. Cf. Columella (vii, 9, 13): Qui tamen non debet 
octo capitum numerum excedere. Non quia ignorem fecundi- 
tatem scrofarum maioris esse nunieri; sed quia celerrime fatiscit 
quae plures educat. 

Pliny (viii, 51): Numerus fecunditatis cui vicenos{!): sed 
educare tarn multos nequeunt. 

' Sufferre\ in Varro (ii, 8, 5), in Columella, and In Vergil, 
the word means always "to bear." For it, therefore, Gesner 
proposed to substitute sujfficere, which is of common occurrence 
in the sense of '* to supply " — especially in Vergil (cf. Georg., ii, 
424, 436). Crescentius copying this passage has neque mater 
sufficienter potest lac praebere. So that the emendation seems 
plausible. 

N 



178 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

grow up strong and healthy. In the first ten days 
immediately following delivery, the mother is not 
brought out from the sty except to drink. When 
ten days have elapsed, she is allowed to go out and 
feed in some spot close to the farmstead, so that 
she can return frequently to suckle her little ones. 
20 When the latter have grown big, they are allowed 
to follow their mother when she goes out to feed, 
but when at home they are separated from their 
dams, and fed apart, to the end that they may learn 
to go without the nursing mother. This they do in 
ten days. 

The swineherd should train them to do every- 
thing in obedience to the sound of the horn.^ After 
first shutting them in, he does not open the door 
until the horn blows, when they are taught to go 
out to a place where barley has been poured out in 
a long line — for by this method less is spoilt than if 
it were piled in a heap, and more pigs can get to it 
and with less trouble. The object we are told of 
bringing them together by blowing the horn is to 

^ Ad bucinam. Polybius (xv, 12, 2) describes the methods 
of the Italian swineherds of his day, who led their herds — not 
following them as in Greece — and directed their movements 
by blowing" the horn — ^vKavy (piovovvreg. 

Columella (vi, 23, 3) mentions the use of the horn for as- 
sembling cows : Cum pastorali signo quasi receptui canitur. 
Nam id quoque semper crepusculo fieri debet, ut ad sonum buc- 
cinae pecuSy si quod in silvis substiterit, septa repetere con- 
suescat. Sic enim recognosci grex poterit. 

The instrument is described by Ovid (Met., i, 335). It was 
twisted like a shell, spiral and gibbous. 



II] OF PIGS 179 

prevent them from being lost when scattered apart 
in the woods. 

21 Boars are best castrated' when they are a year, 
in any case not less than six months, old; which 
done, they change their name, and are called 
**hogs" [maiales)^ instead of boars. 

Touching the health of swine, I will mention but 
one fact in passing. If the sow cannot supply milk 
to the sucking-pigs, you should give them cooked 
wheat (for, if raw, it causes diarrhoea) or barley 
steeped in water, until they are three months old. 

22 As to number : ten boars are enough, it is thought, 
for a hundred sows, though some men employ even 
fewer. The total number of pigs in a herd varies. 
I myself consider a hundred to be a good average. 
Some^ owners prefer bigger herds of 150; others 
have twice as many; others even more than this. 

' Castrantur. Columella (vii, 1 1 ) describes two methods. 

* Maiales. The ancients derived the word from Maia. 
Schneider quotes Isidorus : Maialis porcus pinguis quod Deae 
Maiiae sacrificabatur. Maiia (so Cicero spells the word), or 
Fauna, or Bona Dea {n yvvaiKua dioq) was ** so modest (Macro- 
bius, Satur., i, § 27) that she never saw or was seen by a 
man, and on this account no man enters her temple." But to 
Maia, considered as the Earth, a pregnant sow was sacrificed. 
Cicero (in Pis., 9) calls Piso no consul but a matalis\ 

* Aliquot. In the MSS. aliquod no doubt for aliquot 
In these books there are three places where aliquot is used 

without an accompanying noun : this, where Keil thinks the 
word should be altered to aliqui, and two others, iii, 7, 5, and 
iii, 7, 1 1, where he actually does alter the text, on the ground 
that whereas aliquot is frequently used with a noun in these 
books, it does not seem to be used without. 



i8o VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

A small herd entails less expense than a large 
one, as the swineherd needs fewer assistants. So 
the stock-farmer arranges the aggregate number in 
a herd to suit his convenience, but not so the propor- 
tion of boars, as this is dictated by nature. 



CHAPTER V 

OF COWS AND OXEN 

I Such was Scrofa's contribution. At this point the 
senator Lucienus,^ a gentleman of extreme refine- 
ment and great humour with whom we were all 
well acquainted, came in and said, ''How do you 
do, my fellow Epirots,"" for Scrofa, and our friend 
Varro, TroifXEva ;^a5v,^ I saw and greeted early this 
morning. Some of us said. How do you do? to 
him, whilst others scolded him for not keeping his 
appointment more punctually. I will see you, he 

^ Q. Lucienus Senator. Varro (L. L., v, i) has Sic declinantes 
Graeci nostra noniina dicunt Lucienuni Aovk'uvov et Quintium 
KoivTiov. I can find no allusion to him elsewhere. 

'^ Synepirotae. I.e., ^vvr^TrtipuiTai, the semi-Graeci, Atticus 
and Cossinius (cf. note on ii, 4, i). 

^ TToifisva \aiov. "Shepherd of the people," a phrase com- 
monly applied by Homer to kings and generals, frequently to 
Agamemnon, who led the fleet against Troy. Varro at the 
time of this conversation was in command of the fleet between 
Delos and Sicily. Cf. Varro's introduction to this book, § 6. 



II] OF COWS AND OXEN i8i 

answered presently, my merry ^ friends, and will 
bring along ^ my hide and the whips, ^ but now will 
you, Murrius, comeas my legal adviser, while I pay my 
pence to the Lares,* so that you can give evidence 

^ Balatrones. The word is rare and is generally taken to 
mean a professional jester. It is probably connected with 
blaterones which, Gellius (i, 15) says, was a term applied by the 
ancients to foolish chatterers. Perhaps there is an allusion to 
the balatus of Atticus (cf. iii, i) : Quoniavi satis halasti, inquit^ 
o Faustule noster. 

^ Hoc. The old form of Hue — common in Plautus. Vergil 
uses it (Aeneid, viii, 423) : Hoc tunc Ignipotens caelo descenditab 
alto^ where Servius remarks, Nam Verrius Flaccus . . . dicens 
in adverbiis pro ** «," *'o ^'' plerumque viaiores ponere consuetos : 
et sic pro * ' hue " ' ' hoc " veteres dicere solebant. 

' Flagra. Used in the punishment of runaway slaves, etc. 

* Laribus. The reading of the MSS. is Palibus. Ursinus 
conjectures Palilibus, Schneider Pali. Neither word makes 
very good sense. Keil gives Laribus, and quotes a fragment 
(Nonius, 538) of Varro to the effect that "asses " were paid to 
the Lares. But this was in the case of brides. And even 
granted the general custom, for which there is no evidence, 
why is Lucienus to pay asses to them? 

I would with diffidence suggest Palicis. The Palici (cf. 
Servius, Aen., ix, 584, and Diodorus Siculus, xi, 89) were two 
benevolent deities who presided over agriculture (though the 
pseudo-Servius says Nauticos .deos Varro appellat) and were 
worshipped in a temple not far from Mount Aetna and 
the river Synaethus. This temple gave asylum to runaway 
slaves, who were not given up to their masters until lenient 
treatment had been assured by an oath taken by the latter. 
The word Palicus was popularly derived from iraXiv and 'Utiv 
to come back. Now, owing to the loss of some of this book, 
we do not know precisely the scene of the dialogue ; the time 
was when Varro, as legatus of Pompey in the war against 



i82 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

in case they try to get me to pay them over again? 

2 Atticus said to Murrius, Tell your friend, as^ you 
go, what has been said and what remains to be said, 
so that he may come primed for his part, while we 
in the meantime add to the play the second act, the 
subject of which is the larger cattle. In which, said 
Vaccius, there is a part for me, as there are cows 
{vaccae) in it. I will therefore proceed to tell you what 
knowledge I have gained about cows and oxen, so 
that if there is any point a man does not know he 
may learn it from me, and if he does know may 

3 note whether I make any mistakes. Be careful, 
Vaccius, said I, what you are about, for in the 
matter of stock-raising the ox should hold the place 
of honour— particularly in Italy, since that country 
is supposed to have derived its name from cattle. 
For ancient Greece, as Timaeus ^ writes, used to call 



the pirates, commanded a detachment of ships. The place 
then may well have been somewhere in Sicily — possibly at 
Catana, not far from which was the temple of the Palici. If 
we read Palicis, then, the passage makes fair sense. 

Lucienus on going says that he will return bringing the 
whip for the beating which he has deserved through being 
absent. He goes as a runaway slave to the Palici to claim 
their protection after paying a few pence for sacrifice, and 
then to return sure of lenient treatment from his masters. 
Cf. Vergil, Aeneid, ix, 585 : Pinguis ubi et placahilis ara 
Palici. 

^ Eadem. An adverb common in Plautus (Trin., 577, etc.) 
who always uses with it the Future or Future-Perfect. It 
means " at the same time." 

* Timaeus^ 352-256 B.C. A Greek historian whose principal 



II] OF COWS AND OXEN 183 

bulls italic and it was owing to the great number 
and beauty of these, and to the breeding of bullocks 
{vituli) in this country that the name of Italy was 
bestowed upon it. Others have written that it was 
because of a famous bull called Italus which Her- 
cules pursued into Italy. 

The ox, I say, is the comrade of man in the 

4 labours of the field, and the servant^ of Ceres, and 

the ancients were so firmly determined to guard his 

life that they punished with death ^ any one who 

work was a history of Sicily from the earliest times down to 
264 B.C. Of this only a few scraps remain. 

Cf. Gellius, xi, i : Timaeus in historiis . . . et M. Varro 
in A ntiquitatibus R. H. terrain Italiam de Graeco vocabulo ap- 
pellatam scripserunt quoniam hoves Graeca vetere lingua haXoi 
vocitati sint. Curtius (Gk. Etym., i, p. 257) remarks: "This 
etymology is splendidly confirmed by ' Viteliu ' (Italy) in the 
inscription on Oscan coins." Probably the word is connected 
with (/)iroc, a year, and its root meanin^^ is "yearling." 

' Cereris minister. At Eleusis, the most ancient seat of the 
worship of Demeter, certain sacred cattle were kept (their 
keepers were called ^ovl^vyai — oi ras itpac fiovg Iv VXiv&lvi dporpi- 
ovaaq rpicpovrtq (Schol. ad Aristidem), and by them the Rharian 
plain was solemnly ploughed every year in memory of the first 
sowing of wheat by Demeter or Triptolemus. 

' Capite sanxerint. Pliny (viii, 4, 5) and Valerius Maximus 
(viii, i) tell how a man who had killed an ox was damnatus a 
Populo Romano die dicta . . . actusque in exilium tanquam 
coiono suo interempto. Columella (praef. § 7 to Bk. vi) says 
that "at Athens in Attica he is called the servant of Ceres and 
Triptolemus, shares the sky with the brightest constellations, 
is the most hard-working comrade of man in the tilling of the 
soil, and was so venerated by the ancients that it was as much 
a capital offence to have slain an ox as a citizen." In the age 



i 



i84 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

slew him. To this fact Attica and Peloponnesus 
are witnesses. For it is to the ox that Buzuges ^ at 
Athens and Homogyros ^ at Argos owe their fame. 
I know well, answered Vaccius, the dignity of oxen, 
and that many great things are called after them, 
as busy cos (bull-fig), bupaida (bull-boy, lump of a 
boy), hulimos (bull-hunger), hoopis (cow-eyed, great- 

of iron men took to eating the domestic ox (cf. Aratus Phae- 

nom., 134) which Cicero translates thus: 

Ferrea turn vero proles exorta repente est 
Ausaque funestum prima est fahricarier ensem 
Et gustare manu vinctum domitumque iuvencum. 
Vergil (Georg. , il, 537) imitates Aratus : 

Et ante 
Impia quam caesis gens est epmlata iuvencis. 

Aristotle in the Oeconomica calls the ox "the poor man's 
slave " — ^ovQ avTi o'lKiTov toIq TrsvTjffiv koTiv. At Athens he was 
not allowed to be sacrificed on the ground that "he was a 
cultivator and shared in the toil of men." yewpyde ^tl kuI rdSv 

iv dvOpwTToig KafiaTUJV koivujvoi^. 

^ Buzuges was he who first yoked oxen — Triptolemus or 
Epimenides. Afterwards it was the name of the keeper of the 
sacred cattle at Eleusis or Athens. 

^ Homogyros. Both these statements Varro took from a 
previous book of his, De gente populi Romani. His words 
— or the substance of them — are preserved for us by Saint 
Augustine (De Civ. Dei, xviii, 6) : Qui honor . . . delatus est 
homini privato et fulminato cuidain Homogyro eo quod primus 
ad aratrum boves iunxerit (Keil). There is another passage 
(Isidor. Or., xvii, i), which seems to have escaped the com- 
mentators : Primum ad aratrum bovis iunxisse ferunt quendam 
privatum hominem etfulminatum nomine Homogirum. Quidam 
autem Osirim dicunt huius artis esse inventorem, quidam Trip- 
tolemum. 



II] OF COWS AND OXEN 185 

eyed), and that a kind of large grape is called 
5 humamma (cow's udder). I know, too, that Jupiter 
chose to assume the form of a bull when, being in 
love with Europa, he carried her from Phoenicia 
across the sea ; that it was a bull who saved Nep- 
tune's children by Menalippa when they were babies 
from being trampled in a cattle-pen under the feet 
of a herd; and, lastly, that from its putrid corpse 
spring the sweet bees, mothers of honey — whence 
the Greeks call bees bugenes (i3oy7fver^ = ox-born). We 
have it recorded in writing that an ox spoke plainer 
Latin than did Hirrius ^ at Rome in the Senate after 
he had been elected praetor. 

But do not be uneasy, I will give you as much 
satisfaction as the man who wrote the ** Bugonia " ^ 
could have done. 

' The text here is hopelessly corrupt. No plausible emenda- 

n has ever been proposed — and no story concerning either 
Plautius (?) Hirrius or an ox is known which seems to apply 
even remotely to anything in the text. Planius might easily 
have been corrupted to plautius. I have translated planius. 
The speaking of an ox was a common prodigy. Cf. Livy, 
XXXV, 21 : Et, quod maxime terrebat, Consulis Cn. Domitii 
hcrvem locutum: Roma Cave tihi, etc. Cf. Pliny, viii, 45: Est 
frequens in prodigiis priscorum bovevi locutum : quo nuntiato 

natum sub dio haberi solitum. 
Bugoniam. Keil quotes Hieronymus in Euseb. Chron. : 
Eumelusy qui bugoniam et Europam . . . composuit, and thinks 
with Scaliger and others that the bugonia was a poem in praise 
of bees. There seems to be no evidence to support this, and 
'^of/yovta must surely mean " the begetting of oxen" (cf. Qr\\v- 

yta, Oioyovia, etc.), not the birth (of bees) from oxen. 

The words are, of course, connected with § 2 : Vide quid 



I 



i86 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

6 Firstly, in the matter of horned cattle there are 
four terms to denote differences of age — first, calves, 
secondly, bullocks; thirdly, young bulls; fourthly, 
old bulls. Differences in sex are indicated in the 
first case by the names calf, she-calf; in the second, 
bullock, and heifer; and in the third and fourth by 
the words bull and cow. A barren cow is called 
taura^^ one in calf, hordaJ^ Hence in the calendar 
one day is termed hordicidia ^ because cows in calf 
are then sacrificed. 

7 He who means to buy * a herd of cattle must first 

agas, inquam, Vacci, when Varro hopes that Vaccius may be 
able to perform what he promises with so light a heart. To 
this Vaccius here answers : '* Don't be uneasy," etc. 

^ Taura. Schneider thinks that this means hermaphrodite, 
comparing Aristotle (De Gen. Anim.), where the word rpd- 
yaivai (rpdyog) signifies hermaphrodite goats. But Festus and 
Servius (Aen., ii, 140) both translate it sterilis vacca. 

^ Horda. Varro in the Lingua Latina spells these words 
{horda, hordicidia, etc.) with an initial F not H. Cf. L. L., 
vi, cap. 3 : Fordicidia a fordis huhus. Bos forda quae fert in 
ventre. Quod eo die puhlice immolantur boves praegnates in 
curiis compluresy a fordis caedendis Fordicidia dicta. This use 
of f where Latin has h is dialectal (Sabine ?). Cf. fasena, 
fircus, faeduSy fordeuvt for harena, hircus, etc. 

^ Hordicidia, A festival in honour of Tellus held at Rome 
15th April, when pregnant cows were sacrificed. The ashes of 
the exsected calves (burned, on the day when the hordicidia 
was celebrated, by the Senior Vestal) were used later at the 
Parilia — 21st April — in the lustration of the city and people. 

^ Om^ gregem, etc. This description, which corresponds 
with that given by Columella (vi, 1,3, and vi, 21) is taken from 
the work of Mago the Carthaginian. Varro's words seem to 
be almost literally translated by the Geoponica, xvii, 2. 



II] OF COWS AND OXEN 187 

see that its members are young and fresh, and fitted 
to give increase rather than incapable* of bearing; 
that they are well put together, sound of limb, in 
shape square and of great size, with blackish horns, 
wide foreheads, big black eyes, and hairy ears; 
they should have flattened jaws and be somewhat 
snub-nosed; they must not be hump-backed" but 
have a slightly concave spine'; the nostrils should 
be well opened, the lips blackish, the neck thick 
8 and long with hanging dewlap, body well ribbed 
up, shoulders broad, buttocks * of good size with 
a long tail reaching to the heels, and ending in 
a tuft of slightly curly hair. The legs " should be 

' Expartae. The word occurs nowhere else. Scaliger de- 
rives it from ex and partus^ and quotes certain ** old glosses " 
which he had in his possession : exparta—partu vacua. The 

ading Victorius found in his MS. is ex parte. That found in 
.11 editions before him is expertae which, pace Scaliger, seems 
perfectly intelligible if taken closely with integrae. The pre- 
ference is to be given to cows which have never had calves 
{integrae ad, etc.) over those which have already had some ex- 
perience (in bearing young). Keil follows Scaliger — wrongly, 
1 think. 

' Ne gibherae. This is the /t^ Kvprdi; of the Geoponica. 
KvpTOi )( KoTKoQ in the Mathematicians = convex )( concave. 

' Spina. Columella {/oc. cit.) hsmdorso recto planoque et sub- 
idente. 

* Bonis clunibus. Columella [loc. cit.) has clunibus rotundis. 

* Cruribus potius. The Geoponica {loc. cit.) make the mean- 
ing of this passage quite clear : 'Va aKkXt] dpOa^ rrrtpea Traxinipa 
/loAXov Ti fiaKpoTipa, pt) Traparpifiofupa irpoQ aXXi^X«, iroiaQ kv Tip (iadi- 
i«tv firf irXarwoftcvovc dyavj ftrjdi Xtj^f^C iutrraXfUvaQt roiiQ owxdg rf 
Xtiovi cat 'njovg, ^vptrav liiatpTf Kal fit) ('nrf^vXojpivTjv. 



i88 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

straight and short rather than long, the knees 
somewhat prominent with a good distance between 
them, the feet narrow, and not spreading out as the 
animal walks, the cleft in the hoof not wide, and 
the two toes smooth and even. The skin must not 
be harsh or hard to the touch. The best colour ^ is 
black, then red, then dun, then white — for oxen of 
the last colour are the most delicate, as those of the 
9 first mentioned are the hardiest. Of the two middle '^ 
colours the first is more common than the second, 
both of them than either black or white. 

The males as well ought to be (i) of a good 

^ Colore potissimum. Columella (vi, i, i) mentions the diflR- 
culty of laying down rules for the buying of cattle owing to 
the great number of breeds to be found, each of which has its 
own excellence — e.g.^ the Asiatic, Gallic, Epirot, and Italian 
kinds. And the Italian kinds differ greatly. The Campanian 
ox is small and white, that of Umbria white and of huge size. 
There are also red Umbrians which are as good-tempered as 
they are big-bodied. The Etrurian and Latian oxen are close- 
knit but strong ; those bred on the Apennines are the hardiest 
of all, will indeed stand any amount of hardship, but are ugly 
to look at. 

■ De mediis duobus. Keil expunges the in eo prior of the 
MSS. 

Zahlfeldt (Qu. Crit. in Varr., R.R., 32) conjectures crehrior, 
which seems satisfactory. Something of the kind is needed, 
else the construction is harsh even for Varro. 

In the Geoponica (Joe. cit.) the best colours are thought to 
be the various shades of red {tclq toXq xP'^I^^^'- KavOil^ovaag) ; 
cows with black legs are highly thought of (to. cksXt] fikXava 
EXovo-ac). Pliny (viii, 48) says that both black and white oxen 
are bad workers. 



II] OF COWS AND OXEN 189 

breed and their shape must be carefully looked to, 
as the progeny reproduce the qualities of the 
parents, and (2) the place also where they were 
bom is a matter of moment. In Italy, for example, 
those of the Gallic ^ breed are mostly good workers, 
o while those of Liguria are of small account, and 
those of Epirus " across the sea surpass not only the 
cattle of all Greece, but those of Italy as well. Some 
people, however, use Italian cattle for sacrifice, and 
reserve them for solemn supplications of the gods, 
for — so they say — these are more suitable than 
others, owing to their great bulk. For religious 
functions they certainly are to be preferred, be- 
cause of their majestic" size and striking colour. 
There is also another reason for keeping them for 
sacrifice, white cattle being rarer in Italy than they 
are in Thrace — near the Melanic ' gulf — where few 
of any other colour are to be found. 

When we are buying oxen which have been 
broken in, the warrant required is as follows: ** Do 
V ou guarantee that these oxen are sound and that 

' Gallici. X.^t.y Piceni et Circumpadani. 

' Epirotici. Cf. Pliny (viii, 45) : In nostra orbe Epiroticis laus 
maxima. Aristotle (Hist. A., viii, 7) speaks of /3oi)ff rrvppixa^ iv 
rp 'H7r((V>^. The excellence, he says, of the breed was due to 
ilie fact that they were kept from the bull for nine years. 
' Dij{nitatem amplitudinis. Varro refers no doubt to the 
liite Umbrians; cf. Columella, vi, i, 2: Umbria {profrenerat) 
istos et albos. White bullocks were sacrificed on the occasion 
a triumph; ci. inter alios, Claudian, speaking of Clitumnus, 
Candida quae Latiis praebent armenla triumph is. 
• MiAavu KoXirov. Now tile Gulf of Samos. 



I90 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

the buyer incurs no liability ^ for damage done by 
them?" In buying them unbroken it is: " Do you 
guarantee that these oxen are sound in the proper 
sense of the word, come from a sound herd, and 
that the buyer incurs no liability for damage done 
by them? " Butchers who buy an ox for cutting up, 
if they adopt the Manilian forms, use rather more 
words than these, while those who buy for sacrifice 
do not as a rule exact any guarantee as to the health 
of the victim.^ 

Cattle are best pastured in clearings where there 
are shrubs and leaves ^ in abundance. When they 

^ Noxisque praestari. Cf. note on ii, 4, 5. The -ce in illosce 
is ** deictic," "those before our eyes." 

^ Non Solent stipulari. Because the priests themselves ap- 
plied tests "offering the bulls barley, the he-goats pulse (epf- 
^ivOovg). Refusal to eat was interpreted as a sign of ill-health. 
The test for a she-goat was cold water" (Plutarch, Orac. 
Defect.). 

^ I^ros multa. Cf. Columella (vi, 3, 6) : ** From this time (ist 
July) to ist November — that is, through the summer and 
autumn — they may be fed on leaves. The best for the purpose 
are those of the elm, the ash, and the poplar ; the worst those 
of the holm oak, the oak, and the laurel. These, however, you 
are obliged to use after summer as the others then fail. Fig 
leaves may also be given." 

The number of things used as food for cattle is astonishing. 
Columella {loc. cit.) mentions: peas, beans, vetches, lupines, 
ocinum, barley, wheat, straw, grass, hay, acorns, leaves, 
grape refuse — which he specially recommends as having the 
virtues of both meat and wine, cytisus. Cato (54) mentions in 
addition bean bran and ivy leaves. Much attention was given 
to the health and feeding of the working ox. Cato (54) says : 
Nihil est quod magis expediat quani boves bene curare. 



II] OF COWS AND OXEN 191 

spend the winter near the sea, they are driven off 
at the time of the great heats to wooded mountains. 
For breeding purposes, the following is my usual 

2 practice. For one month before the admission of 
the bull, the cows must not get their full measure ^ 
of food and drink, for it is thought that they con- 
ceive more readily when thin. On the other hand, 
two months before that time I fatten up my bulls 
with grass, chaff and hay, and separate them from 
the cows. I keep the same number of bulls as does 
Atticus, that is, for seventy^ breeding cows, two 
bulls, one of them a year, the other two years old. 
This I practise just about the rising of that constella- 
tion which is called by the Greeks >Mpa, by our j 
countrymen *' fides" (the lyre). When the busi- 

3 ness is over I drive back the bulls to the flock. One 
can tell whether the cow has conceived a male or a; 
female by noticing during the act of coition on/ 
which side the bull comes down. If it is a male He v '' 
goes more to the right, if a female to the left. Why 

this is the case, said he to me, you readers of 
Aristotle^ must determine. Impregnation should 
not take place before the animals are two years old, 

Se impleant. Cf. Col. vi, 24, 3 : Ne eas steriles reddat nimia 
t>oris obesitas. 
LXX. Columella (vi, 243) says one to fifteen. Unuin 
... irem quindecim vaccis sufficere ahunde est. Possibly XXL or 
XXX should be read, which gives the same proportion as 
Columella and Pliny, vlii, 45 (as amended by Pintianus) : 
Implent et singuli quindenas eodem anno. 

' Aristolelem. De Gen. An., v, and vi. Cf. Col. vl, 24, 3, 
Pliny, viii, 45, and Geoponica, xvii, 6. 



192 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

so that they may be three when they calve — if they 
are four years old, so much the better. Most cows 
go on bearing for ten years, some even longer. The 
most suitable time for the beginning of pregnancy 
is during a period of forty or a few more days from 
the rising of the Dolphin ; ' for those which have so 
conceived calve at the most temperate time of the 
14 year, as cows are pregnant ten months. I have 
found recorded a strange fact about them: if they 
are covered by a bull immediately after he has been 
castrated they conceive." They should graze in green 
and watery places. Care must be taken not to let 
them stand too near one another, and that they do 

^ Delphini. The Geoponica (xvll, 10, 3) fix the time — in the 
. early part of June — wpa Zt Trpbg dxi^av ij dirb Sf\<lnvog iTnroXijgy 
TOVTsari Trepl rag apxag tov ^lovviov firivog, eojg y'ffiepuiv fi (40). Colu- 
mella (xi, 2, 45) says that the Dolphin rises in the evening on 
loth June. He (vi, 24, i) gives July as the proper time. 
Pliny, in a chapter which borrows largely from Varro (viii, 45), 
has Coitus a Delphini Exortu ad [sic] pridie Nonas Januarias 
diehus xxxx. 

I have no doubt that Pliny wrote Coitus a D. Exortu ad dies 
xxxXy and that the rest is the gloss of an ignorant scribe who 
wished to explain Delphini exortus and, remembering another 
passage of Pliny (xviii, 26) : Pridie Non. Jan. Caesari Delph- 
inus matutino exoritur^ used it as a note which was afterwards 
inserted in the text. Or it may have been a slip made by Pliny 
himself — using his commonplace books carelessly, and con- 
fusing the evening rising, which Varro obviously means, with 
the morning rising of the Dolphin. Keil and others notice the 
discrepancy but do not explain how it — probably — arose. 

^ Concipere. Cf Aristotle (De Gen. An., i, 4): koI TjSrf ravpng 

Tig, fifTci rqv iKTO/xriv, fvBkior dx^vtrag tTT\r}pu)ai, did to /x/yTTw Tovg 
TTopovg dvtairdaOai.. 



II] OF COWS AND OXEN 193 

not gore or run against one another. And, as in 
summer gad-flies^ generally annoy them, and a 
kind of small gnat breeds under their tails, some 
people, to prevent this annoyance, keep them shut 
up in pens. Leaves or some substitute should be 
strewn on the floor of their stalls that they may rest 
more comfortably. In summer time they must be 

15 driven twice to the water, in winter once. When 
they begin to breed, fresh fodder (for them to taste 
as they go out) should be kept close to the stalls, 
for their appetite becomes capricious at this time. 
Care must also be taken that the place to which they 

I return be not cold, for cold as well as hunger makes 
them grow thin. 

16 In the rearing of cattle proceed as follows. The 
sucking calves must not sleep with their mothers, 

' Tahani. Tabanus, the popular name for the Greek olarpoi, 
the proper Latin equivalent being astlus. At least so says Isi- 
dore (xii, 8, last paragraph) : Oestrum animal armentis aculeis 
permolestum. Oestrum autem Graecum est, quod Latine 
*' astlus,'' vulgo tabanus vacatur. The word is still in use in 
Italian, tabdno meaning a "back-biter," and tafdno a gad- 
fly. 

Crescentius, paraphrasing this passage (ix, 65, quoted by 
Schneider) puts for the bestiolae mtnutae, Zentalos Muscat. 
Zentalos is no doubt the modern Italian Zanzara, an onoma- 
topoeic word meaning gnat. If the text, however, be correct, 
Varro would seem to refer to the eggs laid by the tabanus 
under the tails of the oxen. 

The Gcoponica (xvii, 7) advise the sprinkling of the pastures 
with a decoction of laurel berries as a means to get rid of the 
gad-flies, "which run away because they hate it" {iia rrjv 
dvTiiraOnav). 

O 



194 VARRO ON FARMING [bk, 

for otherwise they are trampled on by them. They 
should be taken to the mother early in the morning 
and again when they come back from the pasture. 
When the calves are grown big, keep up the strength 
of the dams by giving them green fodder in their 
stalls. In the case of these, as generally of all 
stables, a flooring of stone or some other material 
must be laid down to prevent the hoofs from rotting. 
From the autumnal equinox onwards they graze 

17 with their dams. Bulls should not be castrated 
before they are two ^ years old, as otherwise they do 
not easily recover from the operation. Those which 
are castrated after that age grow up hard to manage 
and useless for purposes of work. Again, as is the 
case in all other flocks of domestic animals, every 
year a choice should be made of the cows to be kept, 
and those which it is not desirable to keep ^ must be 
got rid of, as they take up the room of those which 
are able to yield increase. Should any cow have lost 
a calf you must put under her calves whose mothers 
give them too little milk. To six-months-old calves 
wheaten bran, barley-flour, and young grass is 
given, and they are made to drink night and morn- 

18 ing. Many directions concerning their health I 

^ Ante bimum. Aristotle (H. A., ix, 50) says: "when they 
are a year old," kviavaioi. 

Mago states, according to Columella (vi, 26, i — where two 
ways of performing the operation are described) vituli dum 
adhuc teneri sunt. 

^ Reiculae. Cf. note on ii, i, 24. The Geoponica (xvii, 10) 
give as the equivalent of this word * ' the barren and weakly 
cows and those of advanced age." 



I 



II] OF ASSES 195 

make my herdsman ^ copy out from Mago's books, 
and 1 take care that he reads one or more of them 
frequently. You must so regulate the number of 
bulls and cows as to have two of the former to sixty 
of the latter — one a year old, the other two. Some 
maintain either a greater or less proportion : for 
example, at Atticus's there are two bulls where there 
are seventy breeding cows. Different people have 
herds of different sizes; some, like myself, think a 
hundred ' a good average number. Atticus has 120, 
as has Lucienus. 



CHAPTER VI 

OF ASSES 

I Thus Vaccius. Whereupon Murrius, who had re- 
turned with Lucienus while Vaccius was speaking, 

* Armentarium . . . ut legal euro. A common Greek con- 
struction much used in these books, cf. ii, 9, 15, ili, 10, 4, and 
iii, 16, 28, which last is an exact parallel to this passage, 
Aquam mulsam in vasculis prope ut sit curant. Aliquid here 
Keil would take as an adverb. The adverbial use of aliquid 
and nihil is of course common enough, but here it seems 
simpler to connect aliquid with exscripta. Besides, it would be 
difficult to quote an example of the so-called adverbial use (it 
is really a cognate accusative) o^ aliquid resembling this at all 
points. 

' Centenarium. Varro (ii, 4, 22) makes the same statement 
about a herd of pigs : Sed ego modicum puto centenarium. 



196 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

remarked: I choose as my topic asses/ for my 
native place is Reate, where the best and largest 
are found. From the Reatine breed I have bred 
foals there and have sold them more than once even 
2 to Arcadians themselves. Well, he who wants to 
make a really good herd of asses must first take 
care to choose both males and females of the right ^ 
age, so that both sexes may be a source of profit for 
as long as possible; he must have them strong, 
handsome at every point, stout of limb, of good 
breed — that is, coming from those places where the 
best are found. Thus do those who in the Pelopon- 
nesus buy from Arcadia ^ rather than elsewhere, and 
in Italy from the Reatine land. For it does not follow, 
you know, because the best ^ ' floating " * lampreys are 

^ De asinis. Pliny (N. H., vlii, 43) says that they were a 
source of very great profit : Quaestus ex iis opima praedia ex- 
superat^ that they were useful for carting, sometimes even for 
ploughing, but that they were especially valuable as the sires 
of mules. 

^ Bona aetate. In Plautus frequently bona aetas means 
youth, and mala aetas old age. Cf. Aulularia, i, 1,4. 

^ Arcadia. Isidore (xii, i) speaks of the asses found there 
as aiti et magni. 

* Murenae fiutae. Varro (quoted by Macrobius, Sat., iii, 
15, 7) says that '^ murenae Jiutae in Sicily can be caught by the 
hand, as owing to their fatness ih^y float on the surface of 
the water." They are the fivpalvai TrXwrai of Athenaeus. This 
was the most esteemed kind of lamprey, cf. Col., viii, 17, 8: 
Item /iautas, quae maxiine probantur, muraenas. They were 
"preserved" by Roman epicures in artificial fish-ponds into 
which the sea flowed. Pliny (viii, 55) tells how Hortensius, 



II] OF ASSES 197 

to be found in Sicilian waters, and the *'helops"* 
in the neighbourhood of Rhodes, that these fishes, 
of the same quality and size, exist in every sea. 
3 Of asses there are two kinds, the one wild, called 
'^onagri," such as are found — many flocks of them 
— in Phrygia and Lycaonia, the other tame, as are 
all those of Italy. The *' onager"^ is suitable for 

the great rival of Cicero, loved a lamprey so much that he 
wept when it died ! 

* Helops. Pliny (ix, 17) says that this fish was the same as 
the acipenser (sturgeon?), "which was the most famous of all 
fishes amongst the ancients," and that it was the only one the 
scales of which turned towards the head (unus omnium squamis 
ad OS versis). Varro {tTri ry Ta<py fivpov) calls it m,uUinummus^ 

Nee multinummtis piscis ex saJo captus 
helops ; 

but in Pliny's time it was not of much account, rare though 
it was — nuUo in honore est . . . cum sit rarus inventu {loc. cit.). 
Columella (viii, 16, 9) says that it fed only in the depths of the 
Pamphylian Sea (Gulf of Adalia), which is a couple of hundred 
miles from Rhodes, though in the same latitude. Non enim 
omni mart potest omnis esse, ut hehps qui Pamphilio pro/undo 
mc alio pascitur. 

^ Onagrus. The Geoponica (xvi, 21) repeat this statement 
of Varro. Columella (vi, 37), however, seems to contradict it 
indirectly, for, speaking of the progeny of a he-ass and a mare, 
he says : '' Neque tamen ullum est in hoc pecore aut animo aut 
forma praestantius quam quod seminavit asinus. Posset huic 
aliquatenus comparari quod progenerat onager, nisi et indom- 
itum et ser\itio contumax, silvestris more, strigosum patris 

Ipraeferret habitum." He goes on to speak of the onager's 
swiftness and strength, and recommends the breeder to put 
r—- 



198 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

breeding purposes, as when wild he may readily be 
tamed, and once tamed never becomes wild again. 
As the offspring resemble their parents, both sire 
and dam must be chosen carefully, both must be 
fine animals. In trading, change of ownership is 
effected — just as in the case of other domestic 
animals — by purchase and delivery; and a guar- 
antee that their health is good and that they have 
done no damage for which the purchaser may be 
4 held responsible is usually required. Their proper 
food is spelt and barley bran. The male is put to 
the female before the solstice, that the latter may 
foal the next year at the same time; for she-asses 
reproduce their kind twelve months after conception. 
During pregnancy they are relieved from work; for 
toil makes the womb produce inferior offspring,' 
whereas the male is not kept from work, as he de- 
teriorates through lack of it. As regards breeding, 
the practice is much the same as with horses. After 
birth, the foals are not taken from the mothers for a 
year ; the next year they are allowed to be with them 

the third generation the wild nature of the onager would be 
mitigated {per gradus infracta feritate). 

For their swiftness cf. Xenophon, Anab., I, 5. The Greeks 
found it difficult to catch them, for they ran much faster than 
horses. Some, however, they did catch, using relays of horses. 
The flesh was found to resemble that of the stag, but it was 
more tender. 

^ Natio. Festus {ad verbum): In pecoribus quoque bonus 
proventus feturae bona natio dicitur. Cicero frequently uses 
the word contemptuously, as Mur., 33, tota natio candidatorum. 
Pro Sext., 44, natio optimaiium. 



It] OF ASSES 199 

at night, and are kept loosely tied with a halter, or 
something of the kind. With the third year one 
begins to break them to the work for which one 
means to use them. 
5 There now remains for discussion the number — 
but of asses herds are not made, with the exception 
of those which bear burdens, as they are mostly 
drafted off to the mills or to work on the farms 
when there is carting to be done, or even to the 
plough where the soil is light, as in Campania. 
What herds of asses there are generally belong to 
traders, such as those who convey, by means of 
pack-asses,^ oil, wine, corn, and the like, from the 
country about Brundisium or Apulia to the sea 
coast. 

* Asellis dossuariis. Cf. Velius Longus, 79, 4 : Sicetdossum 
per duo S. The clitellae used in loading asses or mules were 
perhaps a pair of paniers, though I can find very little evidence 
for the fact. Festus {adverb.) has eae quibus sarcinae Con- 
ligatae mulis portantur, and says that a part of the Via 
Flaminia — descending, then ascending — was called Clitellae. 
On Trajan's Column there is a picture of a mare with clitellae 
loaded with amphoraey and I can find no resemblance to a 
pair of paniers. These asini dossuarii were called in Greek 
wot KavBi]Kioi, Cf. Scholiast or Arist., Vesp., 170, who quotes 
Xenophon and Polybius. From the passage quoted from 
Polybius it Is evident that the word Kuvdrjkia. means the pack- 
saddle. 



200 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER VII 

OF HORSES AND MARES 

I Then said Lucienus, I too will take my turn, throw 
open the barriers, ' and let my horses go, and not 
the males only, which I, like Atticus, keep as 
stallions, one to every ten mares. 

The brave Q. Modius Equiculus^ used to think 
as much of mares as of horses even for military ser- 

^ Carceres. These were stalls or vaults in the circus from 
which in the chariot races the horses with their chariots 
started. They were closed by bars, or more probably by doors 
of open woodwork {canceUi), which were thrown open simul- 
taneously when the signal for beginning the race was given. 

There is a marble in the British Museum which figures very 
clearly these cancelli. Here they are folding doors which open 
inwards. 

' O. Modius Equiculus. Nothing is known of him. Is he 
a Mrs. Harris? The words which follow in Kell's text, vir 
fortissimus etiam patre militari^ are absurdly Irrelevant, and 
need emendation. I have translated Urslnus's conjecture, 
etiam in re militari, which makes good sense. It Is difiicult 
to understand, however, if this be the true reading, how the 
corruption arose. I would suggest etiam a parte militari 
{^etid a parte). The second a a copyist would naturally omit, 
and parte might easily have been changed to patre. 

Pliny (vili, 42) mentions the use of mares in preference to 
horses in war. Scythae per hella faeminis uti malunt, quoniam 
urinam cursu non impedito reddant, and the best horses which 
went to the war against Troy were the mares of Pheretiades, 
"swift as birds" (Iliad, ii, 763). 



II] OF HORSES AND MARES 201 

vice. Those who wish to keep herds of these horses 
and mares, as some do in the Peloponnesus and 
Apulia, must first consider the question of age, 
about which the following directions are given: 
We take care that they (the mares) are not less than 
2 three or more than ten years old. The age ^ is in- 
ferred of horses, and generally of all animals with 
undivided hoofs, and even of horned animals, from 
the fact that a horse at thirty months first sheds the 

^ Aetas cognoscitur. As in the first book Varro used Theo- 
phrastus as his principal authority, so in this Aristotle. The 
latter discusses (H. A., vi, 22) this matter of a horse's teeth 
thus: **A horse has forty teeth; when thirty months old he 
^ sheds the first four (two upper, two lower) ; when a year has 
gone by he sheds in the same way other four (two upper, two 
lower) ; and again when another year has passed, other four 
in the same way; when four years and six months have 
elapsed he sheds no more." 

The Geoponica (xvi, i) give more details : "At thirty months 
the foal begins by shedding its front teeth which we call ' in- 
dsors ' — the two middle ones of each jaw. At the beginning 
of the fourth year, he loses two on one side (one from each 
jaw) and two on the other. Then the canine teeth appear. 
At the commencement of the fifth year he loses the rest — 
upper and lower — one from each side \sic\ But those which 
are now growing are hollow. When he has reached the sixth 
year the hollows of the first begin to fill up, and when he is 
seven years old he has his full number of teeth, none of which 
is hollow. And when this has happened it is no longer easy 
to tell the age." 

Palladius and Columella do not deserve to be quoted. As 
to the facts Schneider vouches for the accuracy of Varro's 
Statements, and tells us that when he was writing his com- 
mentary on the passage, he (Schneider) had a large number 
of horses' skulls in front of him ! 



202 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

middle teeth, the two upper and two lower. As 
they enter upon their fourth year of life they shed 
others in like manner — the four teeth next those 
which they have already lost — and the so-called 

3 canine teeth begin to grow. Similarly, at the 
beginning of the fifth year, the horse loses in like 
manner two, and, whereas those which are growing 
again are hollow, in the sixth year they are filled 
in, and with the seventh year he generally has all 
his teeth to the full number grown again. They 
say that you cannot tell the age of those that are 
older, only when the teeth have become prominent^ 
and the eyebrows gray, with hollows under them, 
they say — judging from this — that the horse is 
sixteen years old. 

4 As to type : they should be of moderate size, for 
if excessively big or small they do not look well. 
The mares should have broad quarters and bellies. 
Such horses as are destined for stud purposes you 

* Denies hrocchi. Cf. Columella (vi, 29, 5) : Nee posfea quot 
annorum sit, manifesto comprehendi potest. Decimo tamen anno 
tempora cavari incipiunt, et supercilia nonnumquam canescere, 
et dentes prominere. 

Brocchus or hroncus is defined by Nonius (Bk. i, ad verb.) as 
producto ore dentihus prominentibus. He cites Lucilius, Bk. Ill : 
Broncu' Bovillanus dente adverso eminulo, hie est rinoceros. 

The word is found also in a fragment of Plautus, quoted by 
Festus: Aut varum aut valgum aut compemem aut pactum aut 
brocchum filium. In both these cases it describes persons, 
while Varro here and ii, 9, 3 uses it of the teeth themselves. 
Crescentius, not understanding it, translates brocchi by pli- 
cati (bent !). 



ii] OF HORSES AND MARES 203 

should choose big of body, shapely, with no part 
5 of the body out of proportion. You can guess 
from the foal the kind of horse ^ he is going to be — 
[a good one] if his head is small, if he has well- 
proportioned limbs, black eyes, well opened nos- 
trils, ears leaning ^forwards, the mane abundant, in 
colour leaning to dark, and slightly curling, with 
rather fine hair falling to the right side of the neck, 
the chest broad and full, broad shoulders, belly of 
moderate size, loins sloping downwards, broad 
shoulder-blades, the spine, if possible, double," 
failing this not projecting,* tail abundant and curl- 
ing slightly, the legs straight, symmetrical, and 
turning rather inwards than outwards, the knees 
round and small, and the hoofs hard. He should 
have the veins visible all over his body, for a horse 
of such a kind can readily be treated ^ when he is ill. 

' Oualis equus. Compare with this description of the perfect 
horse Columella's (vi, 29, 2), Vergil's (Georg., iii, 75-88), 
that of the Geoponica (xvi, i) — all of which follow Varro 
closely. 

' Aurihus adplicatis. Adplicatus : replicatus: : aduncus: red- 
uncus. Columella {loc. cit) has brevibus auriculis et adrectis, 
the Geoponica {loc. cit.) to. wrn irpoaiaToX^kva^ Palladius breves 
et argutas (flickering — mobile). 

' Spina duplici. Cf Georg., iii, 87: At duplex agitur per 
lumbos spina. In a well-conditioned muscular man or horse 
the spinal vertebrae are not visible, as the spine lies between 
two ridges formed by the dorsal muscles, and is covered by 
their muscular attachments. 

* Non exstanti. Cf. ne gibberae of ii, 5, 7. 

' Ad medendum. In the treatment of sick animals bleeding 
was as much used by the ancients as it was in the Middle Ages 



204 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

6 The stock they come from is of great importance, 
for the breeds are many. So it comes about that 
famous horses are called after their districts, as in 
Greece, the Thessalian horses from Thessaly; in 
Italy the Apulian from Apulia, and the Rosean 
from Rosea. It is a sign that a horse will be a 
good one if he strives with his fellows in the herd 
for supremacy in running, etc., or if, when the 
herd has to ford a river, he is among the first ^ to 
advance, and does not keep looking back at the 
others. The buying of horses is much the same as 
that of asses and oxen, change of ownership being 
effected with the same forms as those contained in 
the Manilian Actions. 

7 The best food for horses is grass when they are 
on the meadows, and hay when they are in stables 
or stalls. After they have foaled, barley should be 
added to the food of the mares, and water given 
them twice a day. In breeding horses the male 
should first be put to the mare some time between 

for sick men. Blood was let from veins. It was therefore an 
advantage if they were visible and so readily found. 
^ In prirnis. Cf Georg., iii, 76: 

Continuo pecoHs gerierosi pullus in arvis 
Altius ingreditur, et mollia crura reponit: 
Primus et ire viam etjluvios tentare minaces 
Audety et ignoto sese committere. 

Columella (vi, 28) says that the colt should be "bright and 
full of fun, unafraid, not frightened by unaccustomed sights 
and sounds. He should run in advance of the herd and some- 
times romp and race with his companions and beat them, or 
jump a ditch, or cross a bridge or river without hesitation." 



II] OF HORSES AND MARES 205 

the vernal equinox and the solstice, so that birth 
may occur at a suitable ' season — for they say it 
takes place on the tenth day of the twelfth month. 
Foals born after term * have generally some defect, 

8 and prove useless. When the time of year has 
come the horse should be put to the mare twice a 
day, morning and evening, by a groom — so the 
man who has this duty is called — for when he helps, 
the mare having been tied up, the operation is more 
quickly performed, and the horse does not, through 
too great excitement, emit his seed to no purpose. 

The point of sufficient intercourse is indicated by 
the mares themselves, as when it is reached they 
repulse the male. If a distaste is shown for his 
work, the heart of a squill is pounded in water until 
it has the consistency of honey, then with this the 
natural parts of the mare are touched at the time 
of the menstrual flow, while on the other hand the 
stallion's nostrils are touched with what comes 

9 from the parts of the mare. Though incredible, the 
following fact' deserves to be recorded : A stallion 

' Idoneo tempore. I.e.^ in spring or early summer, when 
there is abundant pasture, and the mares can supply their 
young with plenty of milk. 

' Post tempus. Cf. ii, i, 19: Dicuntur agni cordi qui post 
temptis nascuntur. 

In the Geoponica (xvi, i) this seems to have been misunder- 

;cxxi: Tck ci furd rpowdg Otpivdf; KvioKdfuva Svaytvij yivtrat xai 

xptia. "What are conceived after the summer solstice are 

useless." Unless, indeed, post id tempus should be read in 

Varro's text 

' Quod usu venit. The same story is told by Aristotle (H. A. 






2o6 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

could not be induced to mount his mother; so 
the groom covered up the former's head, and then 
brought him up and made him do so. As the ji 
stallion was getting off the groom removed the 
covering from his eyes, whereupon the horse rushed 

10 upon him and bit him to death. When the mares 
have conceived you must see that they are not even 
a little over-worked, and do not stay in any cold 
place, for cold is particularly hurtful to them when 
pregnant. And so in the stables you must not let 
the ground get wet, and must keep the doors and 
windows shut, and the mares must be separated by 
long bars attached to the manger to keep them 
apart, and prevent them from fighting with one 
another. A mare in foal must neither be over-fed nor 

11 allowed to go hungry. Farmers who admit the 
male every other year only, say that thus the mares 
last longer, and the foals are better, and that just 
as fields which produce ^ every year are sooner ex- 
hausted, so too are mares which breed every year. 
Ten days after birth foals must be driven out 
with their mothers to graze, lest the dung rot their 

ix, 47) of a camel, and a similar one about a horse, but the 
horse, Instead of killing the groom, hurled himself over a 
precipice. 

^ Restihiles segetes. The comparison of a mare to a field Is 
taken from Aristotle (H. A., vi, 22, near the end) : 'iva d' tviavrbv 
Kai TrcLfiirav avdyKt] diaXsiweiv Kai ttouTv ioaTrtp viiov (fallow land). 

Columella (vi, 27, 13) says that " cart mares may bear every 
year, but thoroughbreds every alternate year only so that the 
colt may grow strong on Its mother's milk and may be able to 
bear the strain of racing." 



II] OF HORSES AND MARES 207 

soft hoofs. At five months they should be given, 
when brought back to the stable, barley flour 
ground up with bran, or any other product of the 
I soil they may fancy. 

12 When they have completed their first year they 
should be given barley and bran as long as they 
are suckled by their mothers, and should not be 
weaned until they have turned two years old. 
When they are standing with their mothers you 
should occasionally pat and stroke them, so that 
they may not be terrified when they are separated 
from them, and for the same reason bits ^ should be 
hung up in the stable, so that the foals may get 
used to their appearance and to the jingling of 

13 them when they are moved. As soon as the foals 
have learnt to come to hand, you should some- 
times put a boy on their backs, for the first two or 
three times lying flat on his stomach, afterwards 
he may sit. This is to be done when the colt is 
three '^ years old, for then is the time when he grows 

' Frenos. Vergil has made much use of this cliapter. Here 
f. Georg., ill, 182 : 

Primus equi labor est animos atquc arma videre 
Bellantuniy lituosque pati, tractuque gementcm 
Ferre rotam et stabulo frenos audire sonantes. 
Turn magis atque magis blandis gaudere magistri 
LaudibuSy et plausae sonitum cervicis amare 
A tque haec iam prima depulsus ab ubere Tnatris 
Audiat. 
' Trimus. Cf. Vergil (Georg., iii, 190): 

At tribus exactis ubi quarta accesserit aestas ' 
Carpere mox gyrum incipiat^ etc. 



2o8 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

most and puts on muscle. Some say a colt may be 
broken in after eighteen ^ months, but it is better to 
defer it until he is three years old, when it is usual 
to give him mixed green food (farrago^), as thin 
purge is especially necessary for horses. It shoulc 
be given him for ten days, and he must not b< 
14 allowed to taste any other food. From the eleventl 
to the fourteenth day give him barley, gradually 
increasing the amount day by day. To the quantity 
given on the fourth "^ (fourteenth?) day you must 

' Annum et sex menses. Columella (vi, 29, 4) distinguishes: 
Equus himus ad usum domesticum recte domatur; certaminihus 
autem triennio expleto. Sic tamen ut post quartum demum 
annum labori committatur. So Pliny (N. H., viii, 42): Diversa 
autem Circo ratio quaeritur. Itaque cum bimi in alio subiguntur 
imperio non ante quinquennio ibi certamen accipit. 

The ancients did not race their horses until they were five 
years old, and they seem to have lasted on that account longer 
than our race-horses. A riding-horse, Pherenicos (cf. Pindar, 
Pythia, iii), which was at least fifteen years old, won the 
Pythian prize, and Pliny {loc. cit.) says that racers were sent 
from the circus to the stud at twenty years, a circo post vicesi- 
mujji annum mittantur ad sobolem reparandam! 

^ Farrago. Cf. Vergil (Georg., iii, 205): 

Tum demum Crassa magnum farragine corpus 
Crescere iam domitis. 

But, Vergil goes on to say, farrago must not be given to them 
before breaking, or else 

negabunt 
Verbera lenta pati et duris parere lupatis. 

^ Quarto. Ursinus conjectures quarto decimo, and Cres- 
centius in his paraphrase says quartum decimum diem et decern 
diebus ultra. 



II] OF HORSES AND MARES 209 

adhere for the next ten days. Then begin to give 
him moderate exercise, and rub him well with oil 
after he has sweated. If it is frosty a fire should be 
15 put in the stable. As horses are suitable for various 
purposes — some for military service, some for 
carrying, some for breeding (as stallions), some 
for riding or driving — they cannot all be viewed 
in the same light, or kept in the same way. Thus 
the soldier chooses, rears, and trains one kind 
of horse, the charioteer and circus-rider another, 
nor does the man who wants to turn out horses for 
carrying,^ that is, riding or driving^ horses, pro- 
ceed in the same way as he who wants them for 
military service; for just as we need them high- 
spirited for camps, so we prefer to have them quiet 

* V'ectorios. I have translated Keil's text, though it does 
not sound right to me. For (i) vectura means "transport, 
carrying oi goods, ^^ and vecturam facere means "to be a 
carrier," and so (2) I cannot think that vectorios is defined by 
equos cui ephippium aut ad raedam {factos). I would propose 
to read neque idem qui vectorios facere vult aut ad ephippium, 
etc., and would translate: " Nor does he who means to train 
horses for carrying (pack-horses) or for the saddle or for 
driving," etc. AtU followed by ad might easily have dropped 
out of the text. 

^ Ad raedam. The raeda or reda was a four-wheeled travel- 
ling carriage big enough to hold a man and his family (if 
moderate) and luggage. Cicero, writing to Varro, says : Quod 
si heri tuam redam non hahuissem varices haberem, and (Ad 
Att, v, 17, beginning) he dictates a letter to Atticus sitting in 
a reda when he was starting on a two-days journey : Hanc 
epistolam dictavi sedens in reda cum in castra proficiscerer a 
quibus aberam bidui. 

P 



2IO VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

on the road. To this difference the practice of cas- 
tration is principally due, for on the removal of 
their stones horses become gentler because they 
have no seed. Castrated horses are called geldings 
{cantherii)y as castrated pigs are termed hogs 
i6 {maiales\ and castrated cocks capons (capt). As 
regards medicine, in the case of horses there are 
very many symptoms of disease, and methods of 
treatment, and these the groom should have written 
down. And so veterinary surgeons are in Greece 
called by the special name of <V7r/aT/?oi (horse doctors).' 



CHAPTER VIII 

OF MULES AND HINNIES 

I As we were talking thus a freedman came from 
Menas^ to say that the cakes {liba) were ready and 

^ iTnriaTpoi = veterinariiy those who treated veterina animalia. 
Veterinus. Festus and Nonius derive from veho^ and trans- 
late ''beasts of burden," omnia quae vehere quid possunt. 
Nonius quotes Lucretius, v : 

Et genus omne quod est veterino semine partum. 

^ Menate. Cf. ii, i, i, and for tertium actum below cf. ii, 

I, 12. 

One would like to know what Menas was doing all this 
time! Was he cooking the liha"^ It seems pretty certain, as 
this book was written for shepherds, and the interlocutors are 
pecuarii, and as sacrifice was now to be made with liba, that 



II] OF MULES AND HINNIES 211 

the sacrifice prepared: would the gentlemen please 
come and sacrifice for themselves. For my part, I ex- 
claimed, I won't let you go until you give me my 
due, the third act, in which figure mules, dogs, and 
shepherds. There is little to be said about them, 
answered Murrius, for both mules and hinnies are 
mongrels — grafts — not springing from roots of their 
own kind. For from mare and he-ass comes a mule, 
2 while from horse and she-ass a hinny.^ Both of 
them are good for work, while neither earns any- 

the conversations in this book were held on the occasion of the 
Pariliay and that the sacrifice here mentioned was to Pales, 
the god of shepherds. Cf. Ovid, Fasti, iv, 775 : 

Quae precor eveniant: et nos faciamtcs ad annum 
Pastorum dominae grandia liba Pali. 

But the Partita would be celebrated in the provinces as well as 
at Rome. So that this does not tell against the supposition that 
the place of these conversations was Sicily. Cf. note, ii, 5, i. 

The liba were, of course, cakes made of flour and milk, or 
of pounded cheese, fine flour, and eggs; cf Cato, Ixxv. The 
priest's slave in Horace, Epist., i, 10, 10, ran away because he 
was tired of eternal cakes. 

Utque sacerdotis fugitivus liba recuso. 

' Hinnus. Columella (vi, 37, 5) : Qui ex equo ct asina con- 
cepti generantuTf quamvis a patre nomen traxerint quod hinni 
vocantur matri per omnia magis similes sunt. Pliny (viii, 44) 
speaks of hinni sls being ** unmanageable and incurably slow." 
Aristotle (An. Gen., ii, 8, end) calls y7yvog the ofi'spring of a 
horse and an ass, which has suffered in the womb, and says 
that it is 17/xtovoc dvdirripoi, "a damaged mule," and like aporcus 
cordtts (rd fUTuxotpa Iv toIq xoipoto). The small size of the Pyg- 
mies, he continues, is accounted for in the same way (by illness 
of the foetus). 



212 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

thing by breeding. A foal of an ass is put when 
just born under a mare, as the latter's milk makes 
him bigger, for they say it is more feeding than 
asses' milk. Chaff, hay, and barley are given to 
him in addition. Much care^ is taken of the foster- 
mother, also that she may be able to give a supply 
of milk as food to the foal. Thus reared he may be 
used for breeding purposes from three^ years old, 
and being used to live with the mares he feels no 
3 repugnance for them. If you use him as a stallion 
younger, not only does he flag more quickly, but 
the offspring also are poorer. Those who do not 
possess an ass which has been suckled by a mare, 
and want to keep an ass for stud purposes, pick the 
biggest and handsomest they can, and one that 
comes from a good nursery — in Arcadia, said the 
ancients ; but our experience leads us to prefer the 
Reatine country, where some stallions have been 
sold for ;^240 and even ;^320 apiece. We buy asses 

^ Inserviunt. Schneider translates cibum largius praebenty 
and the word must mean something of the kind. The nearest 
parallel I can find is Cicero, Ad Div., xvi, 17: valetvdini fide- 
liter inserviendo. 

^ A trimo. Columella (vl, 37, 9) says "not less than three, 
or more than ten years old." And a few lines earlier: "Thus 
reared the ass grows fond of mares. Sometimes, too, though 
suckled by his own mother, if he becomes familiar with them 
when he is quite young he seeks their company afterwards." 

Aristotle (H. A., vi, 23, end) says that it is indispensable for 
an ass which is to procreate mules to be reared under a mare. 
Ou TrpotrS^x^Tai d' ovO' ri 'ittttoq tov bvov ov9' rj ovog tov 'Ittttov, sdv p) 
Tvxy Te9r]\aKu}Q 6 ovog 'iTnrov, 



II] OF MULES AND HINNIES 213 

as we do horses, and require the same guarantee 
in buying, and adopt the same formaHties in taking 
them over as have been described in the case of 

4 horses. We feed asses principally on hay and bar- 
ley, and increase their allowance before they are 
put to the female, so that by food we may flush 
them with strength for their work. They are 
brought to it at the same time as are horses, and 
similarly a groom is there to help the stallion when 
he performs the operation. When a mare has 
brought forth a he- or she-mule we bring it up and 

5 feed it. If mules are born in a marshy and damp 
district they have soft hoofs; but if they are driven 
to the mountains in summer time — as is done in the 
Reatine country — their hoofs become very hard. 
In buying a herd of mules you must observe their 
age and shape, the former that they may be able to 
stand hard work when engaged in carrying loads; 
the latter, that one may take pleasure in looking at 
them. For when a pair of these is yoked together 
they can draw on the road any kind of vehicle. 

6 You might have taken my word for these facts, said 
he to me, as I come from Reate; but you keep 
herds of mares at your place and have yourself sold 
herds of mules. What is called a htnnus (hinny) 
comes from a horse and a she-ass ; they are smaller 
in size than mules, and generally of a colour with 
more red* in it, have ears like those of a horse, and 

^ Rubicundior. Isidore of Seville (xii, i, end) calls. a hinny 
hurdo {burro'i) — multis ex equa ct asino: burdo ex equo etasina, 
Vegetius (vi, 2, 2) speaks of hurici. In Italian buricco is a 



214 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

mane and tail like those of an ass. Like horses, 
too, they remain in the mother's womb for twelve 
months; they are reared and fed in the same way 
as horses, and their age is likewise inferred from 
their teeth. 



CHAPTER IX 

OF DOGS 

1 Said Atticus: Of quadrupeds dogs now remain to' 
be discussed — a subject particularly interesting to 
us who feed wool-bearing stock. For the dog is the 
guardian of those animals which need its com- 
panionship for defence. Amongst these sheep come 
first, she-goats second. These the wolf is ever try- 
ing to catch, and against him we set dogs to defend 
them. Of the pig kind, however, some animals can 
defend themselves, namely, boars, hogs, and sows — 
for these animals closely resemble wild boars which 
in the woods have often been known to kill dogs with 

2 their tusks. I need hardly mention the larger cattle, 
for I know that when a herd of mules have been 
feeding, and a wolf has appeared on the scene, the 

familiar term for a donkey, and in French hourrique means an 
dne chHif. All these names are probably connected with the 
red colour mentioned by Varro, for we know from Festus that 
burrus in rustic Latin was used for rufus. It is of course the 
Latin equivalent of Trvppog (Dor. wippixog). 



II] OF DOGS 215 

mules of their own accord have surrounded him and 
trampled him to death with their hoofs; and that 
bulls will stand flank to flank, opposing an unbroken 
front ^ against wolves, and easily drive them off 
with their horns. 

About dogs then: there are two kinds, one for 
hunting^ connected with the wild beasts of the 
woods, the other bought for purposes of defence, 
and used by the shepherd. I will discuss the latter, 

^ Adversos. So Keil for the diversos of the MSS. ; wrongly 
1 think, for bulls, it is known, form a half circle, not a line, 
against the attacks of the larger carnivora. Their hind- 
quarters {dunes) might then be close together, while their 
heads would be properly described by the word diversa^ 
*• turned in different directions." 

* Unum venaticum, etc. The text of the MSS. is a singular 
jumble ! It is as follows : Unum venaticum et pertinet ad f eras 
bestibus assiluestrihus assiluestres alterum^ etc. Nor is one 
satisfied with Keil's emendation. The cants venaticum differed 
greatly from the cants pastoralis^ being slimmer, smaller, 
weaker, but more speedy (cf. Aristotle, H. A., ix, i). It was 
used for hunting wild animals {bestiae siluestres) such as the 
hare, stag, etc. The sheep-dog, the Molossus, protected sheep 
against beasts of prey {bestiae ferae), and was bred for size, 
strength, and courage. I would propose then to read : Unum 
venaticum ad bestias siluestres, ad /eras bestias alteram quod 
custodiae causa paratur et pertinet ad pastorem. The first et 
pertinet probably arose out of the second. The translation 
will be : *• One for hunting wild animals, the other used against 
beasts of prey which is bought to serve as a guard and is con- 
nected with the shepherd." Columella (vii, 12) distinguishes 
between the venaticus and the villaticus, the latter, the watch- 
dog, being the biggest, strongest, and slowest of the three. 
He also says venaticus nihil pertinet ad nos tram prof essionem. 



2i6 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

keeping in my treatment of the art to the nine-fold ' 
division which was before explained. 

3 In the first place you must get dogs of the proper 
age, for puppies and old dogs are no protection 
either to themselves or to sheep, and sometimes fall 
a prey to wild beasts. In shape ^ they should be 
handsome; of great size, with eyes black or yellow- 
ish, with nostrils to match ;^ the lips should be 
blackish or red, the upper ones neither too much 
turned up nor hanging down too low; the lower 
jaw short, ^ and the two teeth springing from it on 
the right and left side projecting a little, while the 
upper teeth should be straight rather than pro- 

4Jecting;' the incisors should be covered by the 
lip; the head and ears large and the latter broad 
and hanging ; the neck and throat thick, the parts 
between the joints long, the legs straight and turn- 

^ Novem partes. Cf. ii, i, 12: Harum una quaeque in se 
j^eneralis partis habet 7ninimum novenas, quaruni in pecore 
parando necessariae quattuor, alterae in pascendo totidem, prae- 
terea communis una. The nine divisions are (i) age, (2) type, 
(3) breed, (4) legal formalities in buying, (5) feeding, (6) breed- 
ing, (7) rearing, (8) health, and (9) number. 

^ Facie. Most of what follows is translated almost word 
for word by the Geoponica, xix, 2. Cf. also Columella, vii, 12 
— a delightful chapter. 

^ Congruentihus. The Geoponica (loc. cit.) have fivKTfjpa 
ofioxpoiav exovTfg. In ii, 7, 5, congruentes meant " symmetrical." 

* Mento suppresso. Most of the dogs represented on ancient 
monuments resemble Varro's description in regard to the 
short lower jaw, the straight back, and the pendent ears. 

' Brocchis. In a former passage (ii, 7, 4) Crescentius trans- 
lated this word plicati. Here he translates it by torti. 



II] OF DOGS 217 

ing outwards^ rather than inwards; the feet big 
and broad, spreading^ out as they walk; the toes 
well separated, claws hard and curved ; soles not 
horny or too hard, but rather as it were spongy and 
soft; the body tucked in near the top of the thighs, 
the spine neither prominent nor curved, and the 
tail thick. The bark should be deep, the stretch of 
jaw' great, the colour preferably white,'* because 
they are thus more easily recognized in the dark, 
and their appearance should be lion-like. Breeders 
like the bitches to have, besides, breasts furnished 

' Potius varis. Cf. Geoponica {loc. cif.): aicafifioTtpa fxdXXov 

^ Displodantur. Cf. note to ii, 5, 8. 
Hiatu magno. tovq fiiya to xdofxa tx^vraQ (Geoponica, loc. 
cit). 

* Potissimum albo. Columella {loc. cit.) says white for the 
sheep-dog, black for the house-dog. The former is to be white 
so that in the dark mornings or the twilight of evening he 
may readily be distinguished from a beast of prey, and may 
not be killed by the shepherd in mistake. The black house- 
dog is a terrible fellow, "big, black, thick-set — his head so 
large as to seem the largest part of his body — with drooping 
ears, black or yellow eyes gleaming with a fierce light," etc. 
And again: "The watch-dog is a policeman, and if the thief 
comes in broad daylight the dog looks more terrible being 
black, while if the burglar come at night the watch-dog is 
not visible at all owing to his likeness to a shadow, and so 
can get at him more safely. . . . The sheep-dog need not 
be so lean and fleet as the stag-hound nor so stout or heavy as 
the watch-dog. He must, however, be very strong and to 
some extent quick and vigorous, as he is expected to be able 
both to fight and run — to drive off the crafty wolf or follow 
him and make him drop his prey." 



2i8 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

with teats of equal size. One must also see that they 
come of a good breed, and so they, too, are called 
after the districts whence they come, Laconian,^ 
Epirot, Sallentine." Be careful not to buy dogs 
either from hunters or butchers, for butchers' dogs 
are too lazy to follow the flock, while hunting dogs, 
if they see a hare or a stag, will follow it instead of 
the sheep. Hence the best is one bought from 
shepherds, that has been trained to follow sheep, or 
has had no training at all. For a dog acquires a 
habit more readily than other animals, and the 
attachment to shepherds resulting from familiar in- 
tercourse with them, is stronger than that which he 
feels for sheep. 
6 Publius Aufidius Pontianus, of Amiternum, had 
bought some flocks of sheep in furthest Umbria,^ 

1 Lacones, etc. Vergil mentions the Laconian and the 
Epirot (Molossus), Georg., iii, 404: 

Nee tihi cura canumfuerit postrema, sed una 
Veloces Spartae catulos acremque Molossum 
Pasce sero ping'uiy numquam custodihus illis^ etc., 
where Servius In Laconicis velocitas in Molossis {Molossia — 
civitas Epiri) fortitudo laudatur. The Laconian hound was 
used for hunting, and Columella says a farmer has no business 
to keep one, ' ' for it takes him from his proper work and makes 
him lazy in it." 

" The Salentini Campi in the north-west part of lapygia. 
What Schneider means by calling these dogs Umbrlan I 
cannot guess ! Sextus Pompeius {suh Salentinos) says that the 
Illyrians were called Salentiniy from Salum. The Sallentine 
may possibly have been an Illyrlan breed. 

^ In Umhria. The Umbrlan dogs were famous for their 
keen scent. Umhernare sag-ax (Sil. Ital., ill. 294). 



II] OF DOGS 219 

and in the bargain were included the dogs, but not 
the shepherds who were to take the sheep down to 
the forest clearings near Metapontum and the mart 
of Heraclea. The shepherds having performed their 
task returned home; but a few days later, the dogs, 
missing sorely their human friends, came back of 
their own accord to the shepherds in Umbria, having 
got themselves food from the surrounding country 
— and this though the journey took many^ days. 
Yet none of the shepherds had followed the advice 
given by Saserna, when writing on farming, to the 
effect that any one wanting a dog to follow him 
about should throw him a cooked frog. 

It is of great importance that your dogs should 
be of the same"" blood, for when akin they are the 
greatest protection to one another. 
7 In the fourth place comes the question of pur- 
chase. Change of ownership is effected by delivery 
from the first to the second owner. As to health 
and liability for damage the same guarantees are re- 
quired as in the case of cattle (oxen), save that in 
this case (of dogs) due exceptions ' are made on the 

' Dierum multorum. A distance of about 300 miles. 

' Eodem semine. Cf. Geoponica, xix, 2: eptirrtov Si rouf 
KvvoQ Kurd <rvyyivuav. dfivvovai yap dWfiXoiQ ipvaiKuti. 

' Exceptum est. On these exceptiones cf. Justinian, Inst., 
where a chapter is devoted to the subject. 

Keil makes the hie in this sentence refer to pecoris, and 
pecoris he takes in the limited sense of *' sheep." But turning 
to ii, 2, 6, we find that the "exceptions" in the case of sheep 
closely resemble what is mentioned here about dogs, pretio 
facto in singulas arues^ ut agni cordi duo pro una ove adnumer- 



220 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

score of equity. Some people buy their dogs separ- 
ately, others in buying arrange for the puppies to 
go with the mother, others that two puppies shall 
count as one dog, as two Iambs do for one sheep ; 
others arrange that those dogs shall be taken over 
which have been accustomed to be together. 

8 A dog's food is more like a man's than a sheep's, 
for it feeds on bits of meat,^ etc., and bones, not 
grass and leaves. You must be very careful to give 
them food, for if you do not, hunger will drive 

9 them to hunt for it and desert the flock ; if indeed 
they do not (and some people think they will) go so 
far as to give the lie to the ancient proverb,^ or a 
practical illustration of the myth about Actaeon by 

[o turning their teeth against their master. And you 
must give' them barley-bread, which must be well 

entur, etc. So that hie clearly refers to dogs. But then pecoris 
cannot mean "sheep"; it must mean cattle in the sense of 
oxen, in the case of which these exceptions were not made. 
Cf. ii, 5, lo. Pecus, of course, as a legal term, included oves^ 
boves, eqtiosy capras, and even sues, but generally meant oxen 
and cows. Aliquando bonus domiitat Homerus! 

^ Eduliis. Fulgentius defines edulium as praegustativa 
comestio = ' * a snack. " 

^ Proverbium. Canis caninam non est ("Dog doesn't eat 
dog"). Cf. Varro, L. L., vii, cap. 3 (§ 87, Spengel) : Nam 
idem quod Trapoifiiav vocant Graeci, ut est " Au7'ibus lupum 
teneo" " Canis caninam non est^ Many proverbs, all more or 
less irrelevant, had been suggested by the commentators, 
when Keil, by indicating this, made the whole passage clear. 

3 Nee non . . . non. The second non is, of course, incorrect. 
Varro's careless use of negatives (Keil gives many examples 
in his note to i, 2, 23) reminds one strongly of the practice in 



II] OF DOGS 221 

soaked in milk, for when once accustomed to such 
a diet they are slow to desert the flock. They are 
not allowed to eat the flesh of a dead^ sheep for 
fear that their power of self-restraint may be 
weakened by its good flavour. They are given also 
bone soup," or the bones themselves after they have 
been broken, for this makes their teeth stronger, 
and the mouth wider owing to the vigour with which 
their jaws are distended as they eagerly enjoy the 
marrow. Dogs are fed generally in the day time, 
when they go out to the pasture, and in the evening 
when they come back to the stalls. 

11 For breeding, they begin to put the dog to the 
bitch at the opening of spring, for it is then that 
they are in what is called ''heat." That is, they 
show their desire for mating. Bitches which are 
covered at this time litter about the summer sol- 
stice, for gestation lasts usually three months. 
During pregnancy you should give barley rather 
than wheaten bread, for it nourishes them better, 

12 and they give a greater supply of milk. As to rear- 
ing the puppies: if there are many of them you 

early English. Double negatives are quite common as late 
as Elizabethan times. Cf. Roger Ascham (37): "No sonne, 
were he never so old of yeares, might not marry." 

' Morticinae. Generally used of a natural death. Cf. iii, 2, 
18. The Geoponica {loc. cit.) more fully: Twv U air oOvtiokovtuv 
Opififtarutv ovK luaiv uTTTiaOai 'iva fxt^ (xvptOiaOujoi Kai rotf ^uiaiv 
ixiTiBiaBai. tvapUTOKkriToi ydp lK(iaivovaiv orav urra^ itfiofpayrjaoimv. 

* lus ex ossibus. In the corresponding passage the Geo- 
ponica (xix, i) have 6 U rtSv dartuv fiviXog. But this perhaps 
refers to m^dullarum lower down. 



222 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

should choose immediately after birth those you 
mean to keep, and get rid of the rest.^ The fewer 
you leave the better they grow, owing to the abund- 
ance of milk they get. Put chaff or something of 
the sort for them to lie on, for the more comfortable 
their bed the more easily are they brought up." 
Puppies begin to see at twenty days.^ For the first 
two m.onths after birth they are not separated from 
their mother, but learn little by little to do without 
her. Sometimes several of them are taken to one 
place and are egged on to fight, as it makes them 
fiercer, but they are not allowed to tire themselves 
3 out, because this breaks their spirit.* They are 
trained to allow themselves to be tied up at first 
with light leather thongs," and they are beaten if 

^ Reliquos ahicere. The Geoponica {loc. cit.) : ** Out of seven 
keep three or four, of three keep two." 

2 Educantur. ' * For this animal also is very intolerant of 
cold" (Geoponica, loc. cit). 

^ Diehus xx. The Geoponica have iv ri^kpaiQ k (20). Pliny, 
vIII, 40: **The more milk they get the longer are they before 
they can see; they are never blind, however, beyond the 
twenty-first day and never see before the seventh." Aristotle 
(H. A., vi, 20) makes this depend on the time of gestation In 
the mothers. "The Laconlan bitch is pregnant a sixth part 
of the year — about two months — and her pups are blind for 
twelve days ; others for a fifth part of the year (about seventy- 
two days), and the puppies of these are blind for fourteen 
days ; others for a quarter of the year (three whole months), 
and theirs are blind for seventeen days." 

* Seg-niores fiunt. Geoponica {loc. cit. ) : KaTa(3apeX(T9ai d' ovk 
iuim, xajoij/ rov fii) deiXijiv, **do not let them be over-done lest 
they grow cowardly." 

^ Levibus vinclis. In the Geoponica the words are Se<Tfiolg de 



II] OF DOGS 223 

they try to gnaw them away — until the habit is 
lost. On rainy days beds should be made for them 
with leaves or grass, for two reasons — that they 

14 may neither get dirty, nor catch a chill. Some 
people castrate them, thinking them thus less likely 
to leave the flock ; others do not, for they consider 
that it takes away their spirit. Some people rub 
their ears and between their toes with a mixture of 
pounded almonds and water, because it is said, 
unless this ointment be used, flies, ticks and fleas 

15 cause ulcers there. To prevent them from being 
wounded by wild beasts collars are put on them — 
the collar called meliuni,'^ which is a band made 

. . . TO fuv irpioTov ifidvri, elra rard fiipog cidriptp — "at first with 
I leather strap, then by degrees with an iron chain." In all 
ihe printed editions before Victorius instead of vinclts was 
found numellis. Numella is defined in a fragment of Festus 
.IS genus vinculi quo quadrupedes alligantur; solent autem ea 
fieri nervo aut corio crudo bovis. This corresponds admirably 
with ifidvTi above ; and it is strange that in Varro there is no 
deinde («Ira) to balance primum. One would have expected 
something like levihus vinc/ts (Siafioig), primum numellis {^i\kdvTi) 
Jims . . . solent; deinde ferreis {aiirtptft). But the MSS. give no 
support to such a reading. 

' Melium. This kind of collar was in the time of Festus — 
md according to him in that of Scipio Africanus — called millus. 
He defines it thus: "A hound's collar made of leather and 
studded with iron nails which stick out — as a protection against 
an attacking wolf." 

The Geoponica {he. cil.) say that iron spikes two fingers' 
breadth from one another "should project from the collar." 
The heads of the nails were, of course, on the under side of 
the collar, hence the need of stitching on a piece of soft leather 
to prevent the dog's neck from being chafed. 



224 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

of stout leather going round the neck and furnished 
with nails having heads. Under these heads a 
piece of soft leather is sewn, so that the hardness of 
the iron may not hurt the dog's neck. If a wolf or 
any other animal has been wounded by this collar 
it makes all the other dogs safe from him, even 
i6 those that do not wear it. The number of dogs is 
usually made proportionate to the size of the flock, 
and it is thought to be in most cases proper for one 
dog to follow each shepherd. As to the number, how- 
ever, people differ in their estimate, for if the district 
be one where wild beasts abound, more dogs are 
needed — which is the case with those who have to 
journey with their flocks to winter or summer 
quarters by long tracks ' through the forest. But 
for a flock staying at the farmstead two are thought 
enough for the farm — a dog and a bitch. For so 
they stick better to their work, since the same * dog 

^ Calles. Cf. Isidore, xv, i6 (towards the end): Callis est 
iter pecudum inter monies angustum et tritum, a callo pecudum 
vocatum, sive callo pecudum perduratum, i.e., a "sheep-walk." 

2 Quod cum altero item, etc. The archetype has quod cum 
altero idem fit acrior et si alter videmfiter aeger est ne sine cane 
grex sity which Keil emends arhitrio suo. He objects to the 
idem, which seems pure Varro (cf. i, 23, 6). The same dog 
becomes another dog — much keener — when he has a comrade. 
Crescentius also has idem. As to the rest Keil's emendation 
diverges widely from the MSS., and the ne sine cane grex sit 
seems impossibly harsh. 

Is it not possible to keep much closer to the archetype by 
reading et si alter uter {or quidem) fit aeger, est ne sine cane 
grex sit? The use of est (which is needed for the apodosis) is 
common when followed by an affirmative clause. Cf. Horace's 



II] OF SHEPHERDS 225 

when he has a companion grows keener than before, 
and if one or other falls ill, the flock need not be 
without a dog. 



CHAPTER X 

OF SHEPHERDS 

1 Atticus looked round as though to ask whether 
he had omitted any point, and I remarked: This 
silence calls another actor on to the stage, for in 
this act the only part left is to determine the number 
and nature of the shepherds to be kept. Then said 
Cossinius : For the larger cattle you need older men, 
for the smaller even boys will do, but either men or 
boys whose life is spent in forest tracks must be 
stronger than those who return home every day to 
the farmstead. Thus in forest glades one may see 
men in the prime of life, and armed as a rule, while 
on the farm even girls as well as boys look after the 

2 flock. You must make your shepherds feed their 
flocks throughout the day, letting the flocks graze 
all together, but at night they must separate and 
each shepherd stay with his own. They must all be 
under one flock-master who should be older than 

Est ut viro vir latins ordinet^ etc., and resembles the Greek 
lOTiv Hnm. Cf. Soph. (Phil., 6, 56): a{i loriv uare KayyvOev d'lav 
Xa/3<iv. One would have expected, however, est ut non (or ut 
ne) . . . sit. .\nd perhaps ut ne . . . sit was written. 



226 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

the others, and more skilful than them all, for he 
who is older and wiser than the rest is more cheer- 

3 fully obeyed by them. He must not, however, be 
so much older as to be unable through age to stand 
hard work. For both the aged and the very young 
bear with difficulty the hardships of travel through 
forest paths and up steep and rugged mountains, 
and these hardships are inevitable for those who 
have herds to drive, especially if these consist of 
cattle or goats, which like to feed amidst rocks and 
woods. 

The kind of man chosen should be strong, swift, 
nimble, with supple limbs; capable not only of 
following his flock but of defending it from wild 
beasts and robbers; able to heave loads on to the 
backs of beasts of burden, to run swiftly forward 

4 and to hurl the javelin. It is not every race that 
is fitted for dealing with cattle — for instance the 
Bastulian ^ and Turdulian are of little use, while the 
Gauls are just the men for it, especially for draught 
cattle. 

As to purchase, there are six ways of becoming 
the legal owner of a slave: (i) by legal inheritance; 
(2) receiving with the proper forms by mancipation ^ 

^ Bastulus et Turdulus. The inhabitants of Granada and 
Andalusia. Cf. Pomponius Mela, iii, i. 

^ Mancipio. Mancipatior — purchase, per aes et libram was 
conducted in the presence of six Roman citizens of full age. 
One of them called libripens (the weigher) held a pair of 
scales ; the buyer placed a hand on the thing being bought 
{e.g., slave), and said, "I assert that this slave is mine . . . 
and he is purchased by me with this piece of money and brazen 



II] OF SHEPHERDS 227 

from a person who had the right to sell; (3) by 
legal surrender^ before the praetor by the proper 
person at the proper time; (4) by right of undis- 
turbed possession; (5) by purchase at a public 
auction of goods captured in war; (6) by buying 
him among the goods or at the sale of the property ^ 
5 of a proscribed man. When a slave is bought the 
peculiiim goes as a rule with the slave (or a reserva- 
tion of it is made), and a guarantee is inserted that 
he is healthy, and has committed no thefts or 
damage; or that where the transfer is not effected 
by mancipation,' either double the purchase money 

scales." He then struck the scales with the piece of money 
and gave it' to the seller as a symbol of the price (Gaius, Inst., 
i, 119). 

* Si in lure cessit. A process resembling "conveyance by 
fine and by common recovery " which was in use in England 
a hundred years ago. It was a kind of fictitious suit, the 
parties to which were the dominus qui cessit, the person cui 
cedebatur, and the magistrate (usually the praetor) qui addixit. 
The real owner and the purchaser appeared before the magis- 
trate, the latter claimed the thing in question as his own ; the 
magistrate asked the owner if he had any defence, the latter 
replied that he had not; whereupon the magistrate adjudged 
the thing to the claimant. 

For this c^. Gaius, Inst., i, 2, De Nexu faciendo. 

' In seciione. When a man was proscribed his property was 
confiscated to the State and was sold by auction — not in lots, 
but the whole to one person. This sale was called sectio and 
the purchaser sector. 

' Si mancipio non datur. A vendor who had a doubtful title 
would not sell by mancipation, for the law bound him to war- 
ranty in double the amount or value of the thing sold. He 
might instead simply deliver the thing, leaving the purchaser 



228 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

is to be paid (in case of eviction), or, if such has 
been the agreement, only the amount paid. 

In the day time the shepherds of each separate 
flock should feed by themselves, in the evening all 
those who are under one chief shepherd should eat 
together at the evening meal. The chief must see 
that all the implements needed by the flock and 
shepherds accompany them, especially those which 
are necessary for the feeding of the men and for the 
medical treatment of the sheep. For this purpose 
owners keep pack animals, some using mares, 
others some other animal instead, which can carry 
a load on its back. 

6 As to the breeding of men : there is no difficulty 
with the shepherd who remains permanently on the 
farm, as he has a female slave as mate in the farm- 
buildings, for the Venus of shepherds looks no 
further afield than this. Those however who feed 
their flocks in forest glades and places in the woods, 
and find shelter from storms not in a farmhouse but 
in hastily built huts, are with advantage, as many 
people think, given women who can follow the 
flocks, prepare the shepherds' victuals and keep the 

7 men from roving. But these women must be able- 
bodied and not uncomely. In many districts they 

to acquire legal ownership by usucapion (undisturbed posses- 
sion for a year). 

But, in case the title was bad, the purchaser, before the year 
was out, might be compelled to cede the thing to the proper 
owner, and would have no immediate legal remedy against the 
vendor. Hence the necessity when a slave was not sold by 
mancipation for the stipulation given here by Varro. 



II] OF SHEPHERDS 229 

are as good workers as men — a fact which you may 
observe everywhere in Illyricum where they can 
either shepherd the flock, or carry logs to the fire 
and cook the food, or look after the farm imple- 

8 ments in the huts. As to the suckling of the 
young, I may mention that the mothers in nearly 
all cases suckle their own. And here, looking at 
me, he said : I have heard you say that when you 
went to Liburnia (Croatia) you saw there Liburnian 
house-wives carrying logs, and at the same time 
children, whom they were suckling; thus proving 
how feeble and contemptible are our modern newly- 
delivered mothers, who lie for days inside mosquito ^ 

9 nets. True it is, I replied, and here is an even more 
striking illustration. In Illyricum ^ it often happens 
that a pregnant woman when the time of delivery 
has come, retires a little distance from the scene of 
her work, is there delivered, and comes back with 
a child whom you would think she had found, not 

' Conopiis. The use of mosquito nets (irtovtoTrcia — (rtivwi//, a gnat) 
is very ancient. Herodotus, ii, 94, describes how the Egyptian 
fisherman used his net (dfKpiiiXrjiTTpov) in the day for fishing, and 
at night arranged it round him in the form of a tent — and the 
mosquitoes didn't even try to get in ! — Sid Si tov Siktvov SvSk 
yrnpufyrai dpxhv. When Judith was introduced to Holofernes in 
his tent, he was " lying on his bed inside the mosquito curtain 
which was of purple and gold, with emeralds and other precious 
stones inwoven " (Judith, x, 21) : Iv rt^ icwvwTrtjy, o ?/v U iroptpvpai: 
Kat xpvoiov Kai afiapdycov xai XiOtJV iroXvTiXwv KuOv(paafitv(uv. 

' Illyrico. The same story is told of Ligurian women by the 
author of the book irtpi Oavfiaaitov dKovfffiaTojv, cap. .93. "The 
women bear children in the midst of work, and as soon as they 
have washed the baby dig and hoe," etc. 



230 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

brought into the world. Another striking fact: 
girls there, called ''virgins," sometimes twenty 
years old, are not forbidden by the custom of the 
country to mate with any one they like before 
marriage, and to wander about unaccompanied, 
and have children. 

10 Rules and prescriptions relating to the health of 
the men and the flock, and such treatment as can 
be given without a doctor, the chief shepherd should 
have set down in writing. For if he cannot read 
and write he is no good for his post, being quite 
incapable of correctly making up the accounts 
connected with his master's stock. 

As to the number of shepherds, some seta higher, 
some a lower, standard. I have assigned one shep- 
herd to every eighty wool-bearing sheep, Atticus 

11 one to every hundred. Where the flocks of sheep 
are large — some have them up to a thousand sheep — 
you may more easily subtract from the total number 
of men than in the case of smaller flocks, such as 
those belonging to Atticus and myself. For mine 
consist of seven hundred head, you, I believe, have 
had flocks of eight hundred, agreeing, however, with 
me in keeping one ram to every ten sheep. 

For a herd of fifty mares two men are wanted, 
and, without doubt, each of them should have a mare 
that has been broken for riding, in those districts 
where the mares are rounded up and driven to their 
stables at night, as is often the case in Apulia and 
Lucania. 



II] OF MILK AND WOOL 23 



CHAPTER XI 

OF MILK AND WOOL 

1 Now, said Cossinius/ that we have finished what 
we set ourselves to do, let us go. Yes, said I, 
after you have added a word or two, as it was pre- 
viously agreed, about the supplementary ^ products 
from sheep — milk and wool to wit. Of all liquids 
taken as food, milk is the most nutritious; first 
sheep's milk, then that of goats. Mares' ^ milk is 
the most strongly purgative; next in order comes 
that of asses, then that of cows, and last that of 

2 goats. These different milks, however, present 
certain differences, depending on the pasturage, the 
nature of the animals, and the birth of the young 
one; on the pasturage, for milk is especially nu- 
tritious which is got from an animal that has been 
fed on barley and straw, or, in general, on dry and 
solid food, while that is most purgative which comes 
from one that has fed on green fodder, especially if 

' It is obviously Cossinius who speaks. Twice later in this 
chapter Varro interrupts him, § 5 and § 10. In § 11, Suscipit 
Cossinius. 

'^ Extraordinario. Cf. ii, i, 28. 

' Equinum. It would seem from Aristotle (H. A., iii, 20) 
that the thinner the milk the more purgative it is. The thinnest 
milk is camel's— then comes mare's milk, then ass's, while 
cow's is the '* thickest " of all. 



232 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

the latter consist of plants' which, when taken 
directly, generally act with us as purgatives; on 
the nature of the animal, for milk is better which 
comes from those that are in robust health and still 
young than if the reverse is the case; on milking 
and the birth of the young one, as that milk is the 
best which is taken not too long after, nor imme- 
diately' after, birth. 

3 Of cheeses,' those which are made from cows' 
milk are the most nourishing, but pass through the 
body with the greatest difficulty; in the second 
place come those made from sheep's milk, while 
the least nutritious and most laxative are those 
made from goat's milk. We must also distinguish 
between soft and new cheese, and that which is old 
and dry; soft* cheese being the more nutritious 
and less constipating, while the opposite is the case 

4 with old and dry cheese. Cheese-making begins 

^ Ex herbis. Such as scammony, hellebore, or periwinkle. 
Cf. Dioscorides, ii, 75. 

' A pariu coniinuo. Varro refers, of course, to the colostra 
of which Aristotle (Joe. cit.) says, dxpv<^Tov St t6 Trpwrov kuI 
vffTtpov. The 7nu/so of the text is difficult. Keil makes it syn- 
onymous with the colostra, quoting Pliny's words about fote 
gras\ Fartilihus in magnam amplitudinem crescit: exemptum 
quoque lacte muJso augetur (Pliny, x, 22), and says that the first 
milk after parturition was called mulsum because of its sweet- 
ness, I can find, however, no authority for the statement save 
the doubtful one given above, 

^ Casei. For an interesting account of cheese-making cf 
Columella, vii, 8, 

* Molles. Pausanias (vi, 7) says that the ancient athletes 
used to train on soft cheese, in preference to flesh meat. 



II] OF MILK AND WOOL 233 

with the rising of the Pleiads/ in spring, and goes 
on to the rising of the same in summer. Milking 
for the purpose of making cheese is done in spring 
time, early in the morning, at other times about 
noon, though owing to the varying nature of 
climate and food the same practice does not obtain 
in every place. To about two co?tgu (about one-and- 
a-half gallon) of milk is added to cause coagulation 
a piece of rennet the size of an olive — rennet taken 
from a hare or kid being better than that from a 
lamb. Some people use instead of rennet the milk 
from a fig'' branch and vinegar; they also sprinkle 
the milk with several other things which are in- 
cluded under one term by the Greeks. The term 
5 used is sometimes STrog^"^ sometimes ^anpuov. I would 

^ A Vergilias vemas. Cf. Festus: Vergiliae dictae quia 
earum ortu ver jinitur et aestas incipit^ and Isidore, iii, 70 : Has 
{Pleiadas) Latini Vergilias dicunt a temporis significatione quod 
vere exoriuntur. Nam occasu suo hiemem, ortu aestatem prim- 
aeque navigationis tempus ostendunt. Cf. also Pliny, xviii, 25. 
The morning rising of the Pleiads was loth May. According 
to the Caesarian calendar they set in Spring on 5th April, and 
were invisible for thirty-four days (Pliny, xviii, 26). 

^ Fici ramo. Columella (vii, 8, i): ** Milk is generally made 
to curdle by means of the rennet from a lamb or a kid, but the 
down of the wild thistle will do it, as well as fig-milk which is 
emitted from the tree if you wound the green bark. The best 
cheese, however, is that which is the least * doctored ' — but 
for a pail {sinum) of milk, a piece of rennet weighing not less 
than a silver denarius (franc) is needed." 

^ 6ir6Q. Any exudation from a plant was called indifferently 
hxoQ or SuKpvov. Cf. Theophrastus (C. P., vi, 11, 16): "And 
they call these sometimes biroiQf sometimes icueftva (tears), the 



234 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

not deny, I remarked, that this was the reason why 
the fig tree was planted by the shepherds near the 
chapel of the goddess Rumina, for the sacrifices 
offered now are milk instead of wine and sucking- 
pigs. For rumis^ is an ancient word meaning 
*' breast," and we still speak of sucking lambs as 
subrumi^ just as we use the term lactantes (suck- 
lings) from lac (milk). 

6 For sprinkling over cheese rock-salt is bett( 
than sea-salt. 

In sheep-shearing I first notice, before setting 
work, whether they suffer from scab or ulcers, 
that, if necessary, they may receive proper treat 
ment before being shorn. The time for shee] 
shearing is between the vernal equinox and the 
summer solstice, when the sheep have begun to 
sweat. From the word sudor (sweat) fresh-clipped 

7 wool is called sucida (juicy). Sheep newly shorn 
are smeared the same day with wine and oil, but 
some people use a mixture of white wax and bacon 
fat, and if the sheep is used to wearing a jacket^ 
they put on again the skin with which it was for- 
merly covered, after smearing the inner side of it 
with the same mixture. If in the course of shearing 
a sheep has been wounded, one anoints the place 
with liquid pitch. ^ Sheep with coarse wool are 

common term being ottoq. But there is perhaps no difference 
in meaning." 

^ Rumis. Cf. note to ii, i, 20. 

^ Cf. the oves pellitas of ii, 2, 20. 

^ Pice liquida. Hot pitch was also used for branding the 



II] OF MILK AND WOOL 235 

shorn here about the time of the barley harvest, in 

8 other places before hay cutting. Some shear them 
twice within the year — as is the case in Hither 
Spain — that is, every six months, putting in double 
work with the idea of getting more wool, just as 
some people mow their meadows twice. The more 
thrifty farmers shear their sheep on little mats, to 

9 avoid the loss of any wisps of wool. Fine weather 
is chosen for the work, which then goes on roughly 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. For when the sheep 
is sheared when the sun is hot its wool is softer, 
heavier, and better coloured, owing to the sweat. 
This wool, removed from the sheep and piled 
together, is called by some vellera (fleeces), by 
others velamina. From this word vellera it may be 
inferred that in the matter of wool, plucking was 
invented before clipping. Those who even now 
"pluck" keep their sheep fasting for three days 
before, for when they are without strength the 

10 roots of the wool come away more easily. Hair- 
cutters ' are said first to have come to Italy in 300 

sheep with the owner's name. Cf. Calpurnius (Eel. v, 82) : 

. . . Coquito lentumque bitumen aheno 
Impressurus ovi tua nomina : nam tibi lites 
Auferet ingentes lectus possessor in armo. 

(quoted by Schneider). 

' Tonsores. Pliny (vii, 59) states the same fact, using Varro 
as his authority. He adds that Scipio Africanus the younj^er 
was the first who had himself shaved every day. After him the 
practice became general until the time of Hadrian, who let his 



236 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

B.C. from Sicily, as is proved by the public archives 
of Ardea,^ and to have been introduced by Publius 
Titinius Menas. That in older time no barbers 
existed is shown by the statues of the ancients, for 
most of them have long hair and a big beard. 

Cossinius resumed: As the sheep yields up its 
wool for clothing, so the she-goat gives its hair 
for the use of sailors,^ for military engines, and for 
mechanics' tools. Moreover some tribes are clad in 
goat-skins, as is the case in Gaetulia and Sardinia. 
That the practice of wearing them prevailed among 
the ancient Greeks is evident, as in their tragedies 

beard grow, to hide, it is said, scars on the lower part of his 
face. The Greeks were generally bearded until the time of 
Alexander the Great. Cf. Alexander ab Alexandre, v, i8. I am 
convinced that Varro uses tonsores here in the restricted sense 
of " barbers " — and that an entry in a " Common-place book " 
or his memory, that of a polymath, caused the sudden diver- 
gence from the subject. 

^ Ardea. Pliny (xxxv, lo) speaks of very ancient inscriptions 
in a temple at Ardea, and (xxxv, 3) of certain pictures which 
were older than the city of Rome. 

2 Ad usum nauticum, etc. Cf. Geoponica, xviii, 9: "Their 
hair is used for making ropes and bags and the like — and 
things for sailors ; for what is made of this hair is not easily 
cut and does not rot." Cf. also Vergil's well-known lines 
(Georg., iii, 312), on which see Servius, who quotes Varro: 

Cyniphii tondent hirci saetasque C07nantes 
Usum in castrorum et miseris velamina nautis. 

The military engines are, of course, the catapuUa, ballista, 
etc. 

As for the mechanics' tools I am at a loss — unless their tool 
bags were of goat-skin. 



II] OF MILK AND WOOL 237 

old men are from this skin called diphtheriae^ and 
in comedies those who work on the farm;' witness 
the young man in the Hypobolimaeus of Caeci- 
lius, and the old man in Terence's Heauton- 
12 timorumenus. Goats are shorn owing to the 
length of their hair over a large part of Phrygia ^ 
and from this country come to us hair-cloths and 
other fabrics of the same kind. But it is said that 
as such shearing was first practised in Cilicia, 

I the Cilicians affixed the name (Cilicia) to the 
product. 
Here the conversation ended, and Cossinius 
found nothing to alter in what had been said. And 
at that moment Vitulus's'' freedman, coming out 
from the park on his way to the city, turned off 
to us and said: I was sent to you, and was on my 
way to your house to ask you not to shorten the 
holiday, but to come at once. And so, Turranius 

' Rustico opere. * * On trouve encore les diphthkres en France au 
XI Xe Steele: tons les pay sans du Maine et des frontikres de la 
Bretagne . . . sont vitus de peaux de chevre.^^ — Dureau de la 
Malle, Insc. et Belles Lettres, 27 avril 1827. 

' Phrygiae. Dureau de la Malle thinks that these long- 
haired Phrygian goats are Angoras: ^' VidentiU des lieux, le 
caractkre des oreilles longues et pendantes (Aristotle, H. A., viii, 
28), et la circonstance de la grande longueur des polls . . . 
nou^ font reconnaitre la race des chkvres d^ Angora^ Probably, 
therefore, these fabrics {cilicia) of goats' hair were fine and 
soft, not resembling the hair-shirt (cilices) of the mediaeval 
ascetic. 

' Vituli. This is the first time that Vitulus has been men- 
tioned. The name is given ii, 1, 10, as a cognomen of the 
Pomponii. 






238 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. ii 

Niger, my friend, we parted, Scrofa and I through 
the grounds to Vitulus's house, whilst the rest 
went some to their own homes, others to Menas's 
house. 



BOOK III 

OF SMALLER STOCK 

CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION AND DEDICATION 

1 Ln the history of mankind, my dear Pinnius, we 
find two modes of life, that of the country and that 
of the town, and it is obvious ^ that these two differ 
not only as to place, but as to the time when they 
began to be. The country life is much the more 
ancient of the two, seeing that there was once a 
time when men lived in the country and had no 

2 towns at all. For the oldest Greek town known to 

' Quidni. The ante-Victorian MSS. have Q. Pinni. The 
readinf^ (>««</»« of the Archetype restored by Keil from a note of 
Politian, seems pointless as it is here used. The word is gener- 
ally used to emphasize a previous statement and is usually 
followed by a corroborative clause — as often in Catullus. Cf. 
Ixxvii, i: 

Lesbius est pulcherl quidni? quern Leshia malit, etc. ; 
Ixxxvi, i: 

Gellius est tenuis: quidni? quoi tarn bona mater ^ etc. ; 
and Varro, in the next chapter, § 15. 

Varro, besides, generally uses the friendly mi or nosier of 
the man to whom he is dedicating a book : cf. ii, Int. 6 ; ii, 1 1, 
12; iii, 17, 10. Possibly mi Pinni wa^ written originally, and 
quidni was the ineptitude of a scribe. 

239 



240 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

history is the Boeotian Thebes, which was built by 
King Ogygos; ^ the oldest town in Roman territory 
Rome, which King Romulus built. With regard 
to this matter it is possible now, though it was not 
when Ennius wrote, to say with truth '^'Tis a 
little more or less than seven ^ hundred years 
since far-famed Rome was founded under august 
auspices." 
3 Well, Thebes, which was founded it is said before 
the Ogygian deluge, has yet not existed for more 

^ Ogygos. 'Qyvyt]Q, King of the Hectenes, who were the oldest 
inhabitants of Boeotia. The flood which occurred in his time 
preceded that of Deucalion and Pyrrha (Serv. Vergil, E., vi, 
41), and happened, according to Eusebius, 1,040 years before 
the foundation of Rome. 

The Phoenician Cadmus is generally supposed to have 
founded the Boeotian Thebes ; cf. Diodorus Siculus (v, 2), who 
is followed by Propertius (i, 7), Lactantius, and Statius, and 
others. The story is familiar (Herod., v, 58, 59). It is highly 
probable that Thebes was a Phoenician settlement, and the 
name Cadmus is connected by most scholars with the Phoe- 
nician Kadmon, i.e., "the aged one," or "the Oriental." 
Homer frequently uses Kadfisloi or KaS/ieiutveg as the name of the 
ancient inhabitants of Thebes (cf. II, iv, 385), and the Acropolis 
there was known in historical times (Xen., Hell., vi, 3, 11) as 
r) KaSfieia. Amphion and Zethus built the lower city and walled 
it: 01 TTpijJToi Or)(3j]g 'idog tKritrav liTTaTrvXoio (Odyssey, xi, 262) 
though a scholium to this passage makes Amphion the original 
founder, and Solinus (13) agrees with him. 

Varro is followed by Festus : Ogygia moenia Accius in Dio- 
mede appellans significat Thehas quod earn urbem Ogygus con- 
didisse traditur. 

^ Septingenti. Ennius died about 170 B.C. Varro was writing 
this work in 36 B.C. 



I 



III] INTRODUCTION 241 

than two thousand ^ one hundred years. And if you 
consider those years with reference to that far-off 
time when fields began to be cultivated, and man 
lived in huts and hovels nor knew what a wall or a 
gate was, you will see that farmers are more ancient 
than the dwellers in towns by an astounding number 

4 of years; and small wonder, for divine nature made 
the country, but man's skill the towns, and all the 
arts were discovered in Greece, 'tis said, within the 
space of a thousand years, but there was never a 
time when there were in the world no fields which 
could be cultivated. 

And not only is farming more ancient, it is also 
better; wherefore our ancestors with good reason 
sent their citizens from the town back to the land, 
for in peace they were fed by the rustic Romans 

5 and in war were defended ^ by them. With good 
reason, too, did they call the same land by the 
names of *' Mother "and ** Ceres, "and believed that 
they who cultivated her lived a holy and useful life, 
and were all that remained of the race of good King 
Saturn. And with this agrees the fact that the 
sacred rites in honour of Ceres are in a special 

' Duo milia et centum. Ogygus must therefore have been at 
least 350 years old when the deluge, called after him, hap- 
pened ! 

^ Ducehantur. In the Archetype was alebanfur— no doubt an 
echo from the first part of the sentence. In Victorius's time 
the recepta lectio was tuebantur-, and this I have translated in 
preference to Keil's conjecture, ducebantur. Victorius produces 
an inscription found in Spain, in which tueor is tised in the 
Passive. 

K 



242 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

6 sense called initia ^ (rites of initiation). The name 
also of Thebes is no less an indication of the greater 
antiquity of the country, as it was derived, not from 
the founder, but from the nature of the district. For 
in the ancient tongue, and in Greece the Aeolians' 
of Boeotia call hills tebas^ without the aspirate, and 
in the Sabine country which Pelasgians from Greece 
visited the term is still used in this sense. Traces 
of this are to be found in the Sabine country not far 
from Reate on the Via Salaria, where a slope a 
mile* in length is called tebae, 

^ Initia. The ancient form of the worship of Ceres, the 
Italian Goddess of Agriculture, was extremely simple. The 
porca praecidanea was sacrificed at the beginning of harvest 
and the praemetium — the first ears cut — was dedicated to her 
(cf. Festus, ad verba). But after 496 B.C., when at Rome Ceres 
was identified with the Greek Demeter, the service in her 
honour was performed there, in the Greek language, and the 
elaborate ritual of the Eleusinla was adopted together with 
the ceremony of initiation. Cf. Cicero (De Leg., ii, 9), who 
quotes from the Twelve Tables : Neve quern initianto nisi, ut 
assolet Cereri Graeco more. 

^ Aeolis. The Greek nominative plural 'AioXftc. He uses it 
again, ill, 12, 6, and several times in the De Lingua Latlna. 

^ Tebas. Scaliger is very angry with Varro because of this 
derivation. He says that the word means a little boat. The 
Egyptian Thebes was, in Egyptian, T-ape="the head," a 
meaning which would square well with Varro's collis\ cf. 
the use of "pen" meaning "head" or "mountain top" In 
Celtic. 

* Miliarius clivus. The translation given is a guess, perhaps 
a bad one. Schneider thinks that the expression means a slope 
or hill on which is a mill-stone — which seems to me much 
worse — in fact an impossible rendering ! Good sense would be 



Ill] INTRODUCTION 243 

7 The first farmers were unable, owing to their 
poverty, to distinguish in practice between different 
kinds of farming, and, being the children of shep- 
herds, both sowxd and grazed the same land. The 
produce' then increased and was distributed to 
different people by means of money, and so it came 
about that some were called farmers, others shep- 

8 herds. Now the shepherd's business, stock-raising, 
is itself of two kinds, though no one has made the 
distinction sufficiently clear — the one concerned with 
animals raised within the precincts of the farm, the 
other with those which are taken to graze at a dis- 
tance in the country. The latter kind is well and 
deservedly known under its other name oi pecuaria^ 
cattle-raising; and in order to practise it, men of 
large wealth possess clearings which they have 

made by reading non longe a Reatino miliario or a miliario 
Reate, i.e., not far from the mile-stone at Reate. 

Again, one is not satisfied with Keil's transposition of cum 
which in the Archetype comes immediately before agri and 
makes quite good sense there. 

* Quae postea creverunt. It is difficult to understand how 
Varro could introduce money at so early a stage in the evolu- 
tion of society, for he so often emphasizes the fact that it came 
late in time (and "stamped" money not until the time of 
Serv'ius). Peculta {/ucundus) is tcmptini^. " They divided the 
increase (cattle and corn) as private lots (pecuha).'^ For this 
use of the word cf. Isidore (xv, 17): Omne enim patrimonium 
aptid antiquos peculium dicehatur a pecudibus^ in qutbus eorum 
constabat universa substantia. 

Compare with this passage Lucrctius's account of the origin 
of property (v, 1 105, etc.) : El pecus atque agros divisere. . . . || 
Posterius res inventast aurumque repertum. 



244 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

either rented or bought. The former kind, the 
rearing of animals in the farm buildings, was con- 
sidered by some, owing to its humble nature, as a 
mere adjunct to agriculture, though in reality it 
was a kind of stock-raising, and it has not, so far as 
I know, been fully set forth as a distinct branch of 

9 farming by any one. So, as I considered farming 
conducted for profit as having three chief divisions: 
namely (i) the cultivation of the soil; (2) the rear- 
ing of cattle ; and (3) the raising of animals within 
the farm-buildings, I made up my mind to make 
three books. Of these I have written two, the first 
addressed to my wife Fundania on agriculture; the 
second on cattle-farming, to Turranius Niger; the 
remaining third book, which treats of the rearing 
of animals within the precincts of the farm, I send 
herewith to you, as I feel that to you more than to 
any one else I owe this dedication, seeing that we 

[o are near neighbours and excellent friends. As 
you who possess a country-house made beautiful 
by plaster, inlaid-work, and fine mosaic^ floors, 
would have felt that there was something^ lacking 
unless its walls had been embellished by your own 
literary ^ works, so I have done my best by means of 

^ Lithostrotis . For these pavements and the history of mosaic 
in general cf. Pliny, xxxvi, 25. I find it generally stated that 
lithosirota were made of bits of stone or marble of natural 
colours (Seyffert, Diet, of Antiquities, etc.); but Isidore (xiv, 8) 
is against this conclusion : Lithostrota parvulis crustis ac tessellis 
tinctis in varios colores. 

^ Parum, supply spcdaiidam. 

^ Tuts quoque litteris. Nothing is known of this Pinnlus, or 



Ill] ON VARIOUS KINDS OF VILLAS 245 

this treatise to embellish it with the produce of the 
farm. I now therefore send it to you remembering 
the conversations we once had on the subject of 
the perfect country house, and I will here make a 
beginning by relating them. 



CHAPTER II 

ON VARIOUS KINDS OF VILLAS 

It was at an election of aediles and the sun was 
hot, when I and Q. Axius the senator, who be- 
longed to my tribe, having recorded our votes, were 

of any literary work bearing his name. But, if the text be 
sound, these words must refer to works written by Pinnius. 
Gesner conjectures tui, and considers the meaning of the pass- 
age to be "unless your walls were also adorned with literary 
works," i.e.^ unless there were a library in the villa. But the 
position of the enclitic quoque would still emphasize the word 
tui. One suspects the genuineness of tuis. 

Perhaps ni nitidis quoque litteris was written by Varro, " un- 
less its walls were adorned with beautifully bound literature 
also." Nitidus would be no bad epithet for the novi libri of a 
Suffenus. 

Norvi umbiliciy lora tvbra, tnetnbrana 
Directa plumho ct pumice omnia acquata. 

The syllable ni in nitidis might have dropped out of the text 
owing to the ni immediately before it. The general sense of 
the passage is clear: Just as the inside of a villa is improved 
by a library, so is the outside by cocks and hens, doves, pea- 
cocks, etc., which are the subject of this third book dedicated 
to Pinnius. 



246 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

waiting to attend on his way home the candidate 
whom we supported. Said Axius to me : Suppose 
while the votes are being counted ' we make use of 
the shelter of the Villa Publica' (People's Hall) 
instead of making one for ourselves with the bench ^ 

^ Diribentur. Literally, "shall be divided." The dirihitores 
divided the votes {tabellae) as they were taken out of the chests 
{cisiae), and handed them over to the custodes, who checked 
them off by dots made on a waxed tablet. 

^ Villa Puhlica. Cf. Livy, iv, 22 : Eoanno{^2^^'^') ^- Furius 
Pacilus et M. Geganius Macerinus Censores Villain publicam 
in Campo Martio probaverunt: ibique primum census populi est 
actus. The purposes for which it was used are stated in the 
next chapter, § 4. Some remains of it still exist, cf. Middleton's 
Rome. 

At the time of these conversations (54 B.C.), Cicero and *' the 
friends of Caesar " were about to build marble saepta for the 
Comitia Tributa, and a new Villa Publica (Ad Atticum, iv, 16). 

^ Tabella dimidiata. The text here is assuredly corrupt, and 
the emendations and explanations of Jucundus, Ursinus, 
Gesner, Scaliger, and the rest are merae nugae. I have trans- 
lated as best I could, taking umbram which is understood here 
in the sense given to it by Festus {ad verbum) : Umbrae vocantur 
Neptunalibus casae frondeae pro tabernaculis. The rustics, at 
the festival of Anna Perenna (Fasti, iii, 523), made themselves 
shelters against the sun with boughs of trees, or by sticking 
reeds into the ground and stretching their togas over them. 

Sub Jove pars durat, pauci tentoria ponunt 
Sunt quibus e ramis frondea facta casa est 

Pars ubi pro rigidis calamos statuere columnis 
Desuper extentas imposuere togas. 

Perhaps the tabella (whatever it was) might have been used 
together with leafy boughs as a protection against the sun. 

Instead oi tabella^ tabema has been proposed In the sense of 
tabernaculo. And It is quite likely that a candidate used to 



Ill] ON VARIOUS KINDS OF VILLAS 247 

which we share between us, provided by a private 
candidate. Well, I answered, I am of opinion that, 
true as is the proverb " bad ' advice is worst for the 
adviser," it is equally true that good advice must 
be considered good both for the adviser and the 
advised. And so to the People's Hall we went. 
2 There we found the augur- Appius Claudius sitting 
on one of the benches, ready for the consul in case 
any circumstance should call for his services. On 
his left sat Cornelius Merula (Blackbird), belonging 
to a consular house, and Fircellius Pavo (Peacock) 

provide some sort of shelter for his personal friends who were 
there to support him. But then what is to be made of aedifi- 
cemus? and dtmtdiata? Viderint doctiores ! 

' Malum consilium^ etc. In explanation of the proverb 
Gellius (iv, 5) tells a story which, he says, he found in the 
Annales Magni : A statue of Horatius Codes had been 
struck by lightning — a prodigy concerning which the Etruscan 
haruspices were consulted as usual. But at that time the 
Etruscans were bitterly hostile to Rome, and the haruspices 
purposely gave bad advice to the Romans. The former were 
arrested, confessed the crime, and were executed. Whereupon 
this witty verse was composed and sung by boys all over 
the city : Malum consilium consultori pessimumst. Gellius also 
notes that the verse is a translation of Hesiod's t) U kukt) /3ou\i) 
Ttp (iovXivaavTi KaKiaTt] (tpyojv koI y'lfitfjutv, i, 264). 

'" Augurem. An augur, or augurs, was always present at 
the Comitia to take the auspices, etc. For an excellent account 
of their duties cf. Alexander ab Alexandre, v, 19. Varro, at 
the end of Bk. vi (L.L.) speaks of the augur attending on the 
Consul at the Comitia Centuriata : Hoc nunc fit aliter atque olim^ 
quod augur consuli adest tum cum exercitus imperatur {when the 
people were ordered to assemble for the Comitia) ac praeit quid 
eum dicere oporteal. 



248 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

of Reate, on his right Minucius Pica (Jay), and 
M. Petronius Passer (Sparrow). When we joined 
them, Axius smiling said to Appius: Will you let 
us come into your aviary where you are sitting 
3 amongst the birds? I certainly will, answered 
Appius, and you rather than another, for I can still 
taste the birds that you set on the table when you 
entertained me a few days ago at your villa at 
Reate. I was then on my way to Lake Velinus on 
business connected with disputes^ between the 

^ De controversiis . The quarrel arose through the draining 
of Lake Velinus (now Lago di S. Susanna), which appears to 
have done harm to the people of Interamna, good to the 
Reatlni. In fact, according to Servius (Aen., vii, 712), the 
extraordinary fertility of the Rosean country (part of the Ager 
Reatinus), mentioned by Varro (i, 7, 10), dated from the time, 
when M. Curius let out Lake Velinus into the river Nar "by 
cutting through the mountain." It is most interesting to find 
that it was Cicero himself who conducted the case for the men 
of Reate, and that he stayed on that occasion with Axius. Cf. 
Ad Atticum (iv, 15): Reatini me ad sua Tempe duxerunt ut 
agerem causaTn contra Interamnates apud consulem et decern 
legatos; quod lacus Velinus a M. Curio emissus interciso monte^ 
in Narem defluit: Ex quo est ilia siccata, et humida tamen modice 
Rosea. Vixi cum Axio. Appius was probably one of the decem 
legati. This letter of Cicero's fixes the time of these conversa- 
tions, for it was written in 54 B.C., when Appius Claudius 
Pulcher and L. Domitius Ahenobarbus were consuls. It is 
singular than an Appius Claudius was also an augur. Can It 
be that the consul and the augur were the same man, for we 
know from Cicero's letters (Ad DIversos, bk. Ill, passim) that 
the Consul had been an augur at the same time as Cicero, and 
had written a book, De iure augurali, which he dedicated 
to him? 



Ill] ON VARIOUS KINDS OF VILLAS 249 

people of Interamna and Reate. But, he went on, 
isn't this villa, built by our ancestors, in severer 
taste and better than your luxurious mansion at 

4 Reate? Can you see any citrus wood or gold here, 
any vermilion or azure, any coloured ^ or marble 
mosaic — all of which your house possesses in lavish 
profusion? Besides, this house is the property of a 
whole people, yours belongs but to yourself. To 
this resort Roman citizens from the Campus Martins 
and men of all nations ; to yours, mares and asses. 
Again this serves for the conduct of State affairs, 
for it is here the cohorts meet when brought before 
the Consul on the occasion of a levy, here that the 
inspection of arms takes place, and the censors con- 
voke the people for the census. 

5 Of course, said Axius, this public mansion of 
yours on the edge of the Campus Martins is merely 
useful? Its decorations did not cost more than those 
of all the villas of Reate put together, did they? 
Why, its walls are plastered with pictures, and statues 
as well, while mine shows never a trace of Lysippus ^ 

' Emblema. tfi(3\jifia means in Greek any ornament in raised 

work— such as jewels, etc., which could be removed. In Latin 

the word denotes a tessellated pavement of various colours. 

Ihe emblema vermiculalum of Lucilius (Cic. Orator, 149), is 

ipposed to owe its name to the resemblance of the pattern to 

wc contortions of worms. Nonius, however, has vermiculatum 

pro minuto atque miniato, small and coloured with red lead. 

^ Lysippi. Lysippus was a great sculptor, statuarius nobil- 
issimus (Cic, Brut., 86), contemporary with Alexander the 
'ireat, who would allow none other but him to carve his like- 

-.s ; all his statues were in bronze. Of one — the Apoxyomenus 



250 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

or Antiphilus/ though many of the hoer and the 
shepherd. And my villa has a large farm attached, 
a farm made clean ^ and neat by cultivation, while 
yours hasn't a rood of land or a single cow or mare. 

6 And finally, what likeness has yours to the country- 
house owned by your grandfather and great-grand- 
father? It has not seen, as the latter saw, hay in the 
hay-loft, the vintage in the wine cellar, the corn in 
the granary. For because a building is outside the 
city it does not follow that it is a country-house any 
more than is the building belonging to people living 
outside the Porta Flumentana ^ or in the Aemilian * 
suburb. 

7 As it appears, said Appius with a smile, that I 
don't know what a country-house is, please to en- 

— there is a glorious marble copy in the Vatican Museum at 
Rome. 

^ Antiphili. Antiphllus was contemporary with Lysippus 
and Apelles, and was famous especially for his genre pictures : 
e.g.^ a boy blowing a fire, women dressing wool, etc. He 
painted a humorous picture of a man called Gryllus (y|Oj;XXoc = 
pig), and ever afterwards caricatures were called grylli. 

For both him and Lysippus cf. Pliny, xxxv, lo, ii. 

^ Polito. Nonius : Politiones agrorum cultus diligentes ut 
polita omnia dicimus exculta et ad nitorem deducta. Ennius 
Satyrarum lib. iii^ Jati ca^npi quos gerit Africa terra poliios. 

^ Porta Flumentana. Close to the Porta Carmentalis, and 
nearer than it to the Tiber. Festus : Flumentana Porta Romae 
appellata quod Tiheris partem ea fluxisse affirmant. Hortensius, 
Cicero's rival, had a house close to it (Ad Atticum, vii, 3). 

^ Aemilianis. The Aemiliana, probably a part of the town 
in the Campus Martius near the Saepta. Cf. Suetonius, 
Claudius, 18. 



Ill] ON VARIOUS KINDS OF VILLAS 251 

lighten me, lest I err through ignorance, for I am 
intending to buy one near Ostia, from M. Seius. 
But if buildings are not villas unless they contain 
your £s20 ass that you showed me at your place, 
then I am afraid I may be buying a Seian ^ house 
(a white elephant) on the shore instead of a villa. 

8 Now my friend here, Lucius Merula, made me 
eager to acquire this building by saying, after a 
visit of a few days to Seius, that he had never been 
entertained in a villa he liked so well, though he 
saw there no picture, nor a single bronze or marble 
statue, nor yet the apparatus for wine-pressing, nor 

9 oil-jars or olive-presses. Why, replied Axius, look- 
ing at Merula, what kind of a villa is that which 
has neither the decorations of a suburban villa nor 
the implements to be found in a farm-house? Well, 
said Merula, is not your house,^ situated at a bend 
of the river Velinus, though neither painter nor 

lasterer ever set eyes on it, to be considered just 
s much a villa as the other at Rosea which is 
Jorned with plaster-work in the best taste, and is 
wned by you in common with your ass? Axius 

' Aedes Seianas. Unless there be an allusion here — which 
no one seems to have noticed — to the celebrated Seian horse 
which, like the gold of Tolosa, invariably brought disaster to 
the possessor of it, Varro's words seem pointless. The equus 
Seianus belonged successively to Cn. Seius, Dolabella, Cassius, 
and Antony, all of whom perished miserably. Hinc proverbium 
de hominilms calamitosis ortuttif dicique solitum *' Ille homo habet 
equum Seianum " (Gellius, iii, 9). 

' Villa ad angulum Velini. This was the villa at which 
Cicero stayed in 54 B.C. Cf. § 3 of this chapter, with note. 



252 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

admitted with a nod that a house which was merely 
a farm-house was just as much a villa as one which 
was both a suburban mansion and a farm-house 
as well, but wanted to know what inference his 
friend drew from the facts. What inference? said 
he, why, if we must approve your farm because 
animals are fed there, and if it is properly called 
a ''villa," because cattle are fed and stabled in it, 
the estate of which I speak should with equal reason 
be called by that name, as great profits are made 

11 in it by feeding animals. For what does it matter 
whether you make your profit out of sheep or birds? 
Or do you think the return from the oxen on your 
farm — which give birth to bees — sweeter than that 
from the honey-bees which work in the bee-hives 
at Seius's villa? Do you get more ^ from the pork- 
butcher for the boar-pigs reared there than Seius 
does from the man in the market for the wild boars 

12 bred on his estate? But what prevents me, said 
Axius, from having bees and wild boars on my 
villa at Reate? Unless indeed the honey made 
at Seius's is Sicilian,^ that at Reate the bitter 

' Pluris. Probably much less, for the flesh of the wild boar 
was much esteemed, especially Cullum aprugnum and lumhi 
aprugni. Cf. Macrobius, ii, 9, where the menu of a cena pon- 
tijicum is given. It included, amongst many other things, 
hedge-hogs, raw oysters ^quantum vellent), field-fares, aspar- 
agus, a fat chicken, oyster patty, boiled moor-fowl, hares, 
various roast meats, haggis, Picentian rolls, and lumhi aprugni 
and sinciput aprugnum. 

^ Siculum. The most famous honey came from the bees of 
Mount Hybla in Sicily. 



Ill] ON VARIOUS KINDS OF VILLAS 253 

Corsican ^ kind, and unless the acorns he buys make 
the boars fat on his estate, while on mine those which 
I get for nothing make them thin? But, replied 
Appius, Merula does not say that you couldn't 
fatten the same animals as Seius, only, as I have 

3 seen with my own eyes, you don't. Now there 
are two' kinds of feeding; the one is conducted 
out in the fields, under which head comes cattle- 
raising; the other within the home buildings, 
where are reared hens, doves, bees, and the other 
animals which are usually fed there. On the latter 
we possess special treatises by Mago of Carthage 
and Cassius Dionysius, as well as scattered obser- 
vations to be found in their longer works; and 
these Seius has apparently read to such good 
purpose that he makes more profit out of a single 
villa by this method of feeding than other people 

4 do out of a whole farm devoted to agriculture. It is 
true, said Merula, for I have seen there great flocks 
of geese, hens, doves, cranes,^ and peacocks, as 

' Corsicum. The Corsican honey was bitter because the 
bees fed on wormwood (Dioscorides, ii, 102). Isidore (xx, 3) 
makes the same statement about the Sardinian: Sardum 
amarum est ahsinthii causa: cuius copia eius regionis apes 
nutriuntur. 

'■ Cum sint. These anacolutha are common in Varro. Cf. 
i, I, 2; ii, I, 3; iii, 16, 2, 8. 

^ Gruum. Both cranes and storks were fattened for table. 

At one time storks were preferred, though in Pliny's time no 

ne would touch one (Pliny, x, 23). Peacocks, of course, at the 

inc when Varro wrote this book almost always appeared at a 

dinner of ceremony. In one of Cicero's letters to Attlcus he 



254 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

well as hosts of dormice, fishes, wild boars, and 
other game. And the freedman who keeps his 
books — he once waited on Varro and used to enter- 
tain me when his patron was away — told me that 
his master used to make out of his villa by means 
of them more than 50,000 sesterces (;^40o) a year. 
As Axius seemed amazed, I remarked to him: 
Doubtless you know my maternal aunt's farm in the 
Sabine country, which is twenty-four miles from 
15 Rome on the Via Salaria? Naturally, said he, as in 
summer when I am going to Reate from Rome I 
generally break the day there at noon, or on my 
way back in winter pitch my camp there at night. 
Well, I added, in this villa the aviary alone turned 
out to my knowledge five thousand fieldfares worth 
three denarii (2^-. 6d.) apiece, so that in that year 
that department of the villa made 60,000 sesterces 
(;^48o), which is twice ^ as much as your farm of 
200 iugera (130 acres) makes. What! sixty thousand, 

speaks of having given Hirtius a dinner sine pavone\ Plutarch 
gives a horrid account of the fattening of cranes : dXXot -^ipavniv 
ofi^ara d-Koppd-^avTfQ Koi dTroKXeiaavreg iv gkoth Triaivovci k.t.X. 
(De Esu Carnium, ii, near the beginning). 

1 Bis tantum quam. Is this Latin ? I can, after diligent 
search, find no instance of this use either in Varro or else- 
where. The nearest parallel I can discover is in Columella 
(i, 8, 8), duplicia quam numerus servorum exigit, but this is 
not so violent as bis tantum quam. I imagine that what was 
written is ^^y tantH quanta tuus. The scribe, suspecting his 
predecessor of dittography, would without hesitation write 
quam tuus. On the other hand it may be a colloquial in- 
accuracy. 



I 



Ill] ON VARIOUS KINDS OF VILLAS 255 

said Axius, sixty, stxfyl you are joking. Stxfyj I 
16 repeated. Well, but to make this haul,' said he, 
you'll want a banquet,' or somebody's triumph such 
as that of Metellus Scipio in former days, or club ^ 
dinners, which now in endless number inflate the 
market price of provisions. Every year, said I, you 
may look for such a return, and, I hope, your aviary 
will pay * Its way ; in these days of luxury it happens 

* Bolum. /36Xof=(i) a cast of a net (pure Latin iactus), 
(2) the thing caught. Cf. Euripid. (Electra, 582): 

riv iKairdffiofiai y' ov fieHpxofiai ^oXov. 

Plautus (Rudens, 360) uses the word in the first sense : 

JVimts Upide iecisti bolum y periurum perdidisti. 

Terence (Heauton., 673) in the second : 

Crucidr bolum mihi tdntum ereptum tdm desubito efaiicilmSj 

though the older commentators consider this to be a different 
word — the Latin form of the Greek fiw\og, "a lump." 

* Epulum. Columella (viii, 10, 6) understood this in the 
limited sense of a banquet in celebration of a triumph. 
M. Terentius temis saepe denariis singulos emptitatos esse sig- 

\ nificat avorum temporibus, quibus qui triumphabant populo 
dabant epulum. 

' Collegiorum. The reference is probably not to the four 
great collegia of the priests in particular, but to the collegia 
artificuMy sodalicia, etc., as well. 

* Non decoquet. Decoquere is used by Cicero to denote 
ruinous extravagance. Cf. Phil., ii, 18: ienesne memoria te 
praetextatum decoxisse, \.q. , patrimonium tuum. Pliny (xxi, 6) 
has : Serere in Italia minime expedite adscrupula usque singula 
areis decoquentibus — "eatingiup il2 of the gain," so Grono- 
vius interprets. Here I conceive the meaning to be: "Your 
aviary will not eat up the profit (or hanc summam) by the ex- 
pense of its up-keep." 



256 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

but rarely that you are deceived, for how few are 
the years in which you don't see a solemn banquet, 
or a triumph, or in which the clubs do not feast. 
More than that, he answered, modern luxury creates 
what one may call a daily banquet within the gates 
17 of Rome. Was' it not, I went on, a frequent state- 
ment of L. Abuccius, a most cultured gentleman, 
as you know, whose satires are modelled on those 
of Lucilius, that his farm in the Alban country 
was always beaten by his villa and the animals 
it bred, for the land made less than 10,000 sesterces 
(;^8o), the villa more than 20,000 (;^i6o)? It was 
he too who stated that if he could have had his 
villa in a place of his own choosing near^ the sea 
he would have made out of it more than 100,000 
sesterces (;^8oo). And again, quite recently, when 
M. Cato became guardian to young Lucullus,^ did 

^ Nonne. Here Varro goes on again. 

2 Secundum mare. So that it might be possible to build 
fish-ponds, which were enormously profitable. 

^ Luculli. This was the son of the well-known L. Lucullus 
who fought against Mithridates. When L. Lucullus died he left 
a little boy, and in his will made Cato (Uticensis), the uncle 
of the boy, his guardian. It is in keeping with Cato's char- 
acter that one of his first acts was to sell his ward's fish-ponds 
as being an unnecessary luxury. Columella, at any rate, says 
that the fish-ponds (not fishes) were sold for 400,000 sesterces 
(viii, 16, 5). Pliny also says fish-ponds, and makes the price 
paid still greater, namely, four million sesterces (ix, 54). The 
words in Varro's text, quadraginta milihus sestertiis, can only 
mean 40,000 sesterces. Cf. iii, 16, 11 : dena milia sestertia. 
Macrobius (ii, 11) agrees with Varro (he alludes to this 
passage) as to the price, but makes Cato the heir ! 



Ill] OF VILLA-BRED STOCK 257 

he not sell his ward's fishes for 40,000 sesterces 
18 (;^32o)? Said Axius: My dear Merula, take me, I 
implore you, as your pupil in the art of feeding 
animals within the villa. Certainly, and as soon as 
you promise the school-fee, I will begin. Well, I 
don't refuse, and you can have it to-day, or later 
many times over from the animals I shall feed under 
your tuition. Ah yes, said Appius, whenever one 
of these animals dies (a natural death), say a goose 
or a peacock! Well, said Axius, what does it matter 
if you eat birds or fishes that have died, seeing that 
you never eat them except when dead? But please 
set me now in the way of the scientific practice of 
the art, and expound its scope and method. 



CHAPTER III 

OF ANIMALS FED WITHIN THE VILLA 

I Merula began without demur. 

In the first place the owner should have a know- 
ledge of those things which can be reared and fed 
in and about a villa with a view to the master's 
profit or pleasure. Of this art there are three sec- 
tions, concerned respectively with aviaries, warrens,' 

' Leporaria. Gellius (ii, 20), who quotes this passage, says 
that in his own time they were commonly called vivaria — "a 
word which has not the support of any ancient writer " ; in 
Scipio's. roboraria, from the oaken planks with which they 
were fenced. 

5 



258 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

and fish-ponds. The word ^^ aviary," in the sense 
in which I now use it, covers all winged things 
which are fed within the walls of the villa. *' Warren" 

2 I want you to understand not in the sense our 
grandsires used the word — as a place in which were 
only hares ^ — but as any enclosure attached to the 
villa which contains shut up in it animals to be fed. 
In the same way I mean by fish-pond any pond, be 
the water fresh or salt, which has fish confined in it 

3 close to the villa. Each class of the things men- 
tioned may be subdivided into at least two divi- 
sions: those animals which are content with dry 
land alone — peacocks for example, together with 
doves and fieldfares — belong to the first, while 
under the second division come those for which dry 
land alone is insufficient, as they need water as well ; 
such as geese, teal, and ducks. In the same way 
the second division I mentioned above as connected 
with hunting, has two separate classes, the one in- 
cluding wild boars, roes, and hares, the other, 
animals which are also without the villa, such as 

4 bees, snails, and dormice. Similarly the third class 
of aquatic creatures has two divisions, for men keep 
fishes, some in sea-water, and some in fresh. 

Now with regard to these six divisions : you must 
get three kinds of craftsmen corresponding with the 
three classes I mentioned to you just now, namely, 
fowlers, hunters, and anglers, or else you must buy 
from them animals which may be committed to the 

^ Soli lepores. Cf. iii, 12, 6, where the word includes 
cunicuU, rabbits. 



Ill] OF VILLA-BRED STOCK 259 

care of your own slaves, and by them looked after 
during pregnancy until the young ones are born. 
These when born will be reared and fattened until 
they are ready for the market. There are, too, cer- 
tain other animals which must be added to the villa's 
stock, animals which do not call for the nets of 
fowlers, hunters, or fishers— such as dormice, snails, 
and hens. 

5 Now of these creatures those which are kept 
within the precincts of the villa were the first to 
which men gave their attention — for in the earliest 
times it was not only the augurs who procured 
chickens in order to take the auspices, but the heads 
of families in the country did so as well. In the 
second place came those animals which, being used 
for hunting, are enclosed near the villa by a wall, 
and close to the villa the bee-hives, for bees origin- 
ally were kept under the eaves ' of the farmhouse, 
and had the shelter of its roof. Third in order of 
time were fresh-water fish-ponds which men began 
to make for the fishes that had been caught in the 

6 rivers. Each of these classes has two stages, the 
earlier, which the thrift of antiquity adopted, the 
later, that elaborated by modern luxury. For the 
first stage was reflected in the excellent old-time 

' Sugrundas=ytiaat the projecting part of the roof. Pliny 
(xxv, 13) speaks of the house-leek, hypoj^esoriy so called quod in 
subgrundiis fere nasciiur. Cf. Columella (ix, pref., § 2) : Apihus 
quoque dabatur sedes adhuc nostra memoria vel in ipsis villae 
parietibus excisis^ vel in protcctis porticibus. The yf>6v9oi ^vXivot 
(Mathem. Vet) were projecting supports. 



26o VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

practice of our ancestors which allowed but two 
'^aviaries," namely, on the surface of the ground a 
farmyard in which hens were fed — and their return 
was eggs and chickens — and above the ground a 
second place in which were pigeons in turrets or on 
the roof of the villa. But nowadays aviaries have 

7 changed their name, being called ^' ornithones," 
and those acquired by the modern epicure have 
buildings for lodging fieldfares and peacocks more 
extensive than were entire villas in former times. 

8 Now with regard to the second section — the 
warren — your father, Axius, never in his life saw 
anything as the result of his hunting more than a 
paltry hare. For the big walled-in enclosure made 
to hold wild boars and roes in large numbers did 
not exist in his time. While you, said he, turning 
to me, when you bought your estate at Tusculum 
from M. Piso,^ found wild boars in plenty in the 

9 warren, did you not? Touching the third section: 
in ancient times did any one dream of having any 
but a fresh-water fish-pond, or other fish in it than 
"squali" and ''mugiles"? but now every man of 
refined ' taste tells you that he would as soon keep 

^ M. Piso. M. Pupius PIso Calpurnianus, who was Consul 
in 6 1 B.C. He is frequently mentioned by Cicero as a friend 
of the notorious Clodius (Ad Atticum, i, 14). In the De Finibus 
(v, i) he is made to champion the Peripatetic doctrine con- 
cerning the summum bonum. 

2 Minthon. Keil substitutes this word for the rhynton of 
the Archetype, and for the meaning quotes Philodemus of 
Gadara, who defines fiivOcov as a supercilious fop " who looks 
down upon everybody and depreciates all whom he meets or 



t 



Ill] OF VILLA-BRED STOCK 261 

a pond full of frogs as of these fishes. Philippus' 
once — the story is familiar — called upon his friend 
Ummidius' at Casinum, and a fine lupus^ (pi^e) 

hears of even if they be people reputed great," etc. The 
word is derived from n'lvOa, mint. Cf. the muguets (lilies) of 
the time of Louis XIV. 

* Philippus. Probably L. Marcius Philippus (Cons. 91 B.C.), 
whom Cicero describes (De Orat., iii, i) as homini et vehementi 
et diserto et imprimis forti ad resistendum. And again (Brutus, 
47) : Sed tamen erant ea in Philippo . . . summa libertas in 
oratione^ multae facetiae ... in altercando cum aliquo aculeo 
et maledicto facetus. 

' Ummidius. Perhaps the Ummidius of Horace (Sat., i, 
i» 95): 

Ummidius quidam — non longa estfahula — dives 

Ut metiretur nummos, ita sordidus ut se 

Non umquam servo melius vestiret ad usque 

Supremum tempus, etc. 

There is an inscription kept by the monks of Monte Cassino 
which sets forth that the theatre at Casinum (Cassino) was 
built at the expense of Ummidia (Quadratilla) — a lady described 
by Pliny (Epist. vii, 24) as being very fond of '* pantomiml." 
This theatre, in moderately good preservation, stands about 
300 yards from the poor remains of Varro's villa. The 
characters assigned to the two men by Cicero and Horace 
accord well with Varro's story. The wealthy miser gave 
Philippus a dinner, and the fish was the cheap lupus instead 
of the usual mullet, sturgeon, or lamprey, and Philippus 
showed his resentment in such a manner as we should expect 
from Cicero's description of him. 

' Lupus. This fish was much esteemed by the contempor- 
aries of Lucilius. One of them, in a Zolaesque description of 
the debauchery of the young nobles of that time, gives an 
account of their behaviour in Court. '* He is so drunk that 
he can hardly keep his eyes open, and, when they rise for 



262 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

taken from your ^ river was set before him. He 
tasted it, then spat it out with the remark, I'll be 
lo hanged if I didn't think it was fish. Then our 
generation, not content with the extravagant exten- 
sion of its warrens, has pushed its fish-ponds up to 
the sea and summoned to them swarms of deep-sea 
fishes. Was it not from these that Sergius Orata ^ 
(gold-fish) and Licinius Murena (lamprey) got their 
names? And who but knows — so famous are they — 
of the fish-ponds of Philippus, Hortensius, and the 
Luculli? Well, Axius, tell me, where do you want 
me to begin? 

discussion, he says, * What the deuce have I to do with these 
idiots? How much better it would be for us to go and drink 
mulsum mixed with Greek wine, and eat a real fine lupus 
caught between the two bridges ' " (Macrobius, ii, 12, end). 

Pliny (xxxii, 2) says that the lupus is not so intelligent as 
the mugil, " which knows that the bait conceals a hook," but 
is more vigorous, for '*when it is hooked it dashes wildly 
backwards and forwards, making the wound wider, until at 
last the hook comes away." 

^ E tuojlumine. Cf iii, 5, 9: Cum habeam sub oppido Casino 
Jlumen quod per villamjluat. This was the river Vinius, now 
called // Rapido. 

- Sergius Orata. Cf. Columella, viii, 16,. 5: Velut ante de- 
victarum gentium Numantinus et Isauricus, ita Sergius Orata 
et Licinius Muraena captorum piscium laetabantur vocabulis. 
Sergius Orata first had hanging baths, ' ' first laid down oyster 
beds at Baiae," etc. (Macrobius, il, 11). 



ml OF BIRDS IN GENERAL 263 



CHAPTER IV 

OF BIRDS IN GENERAL 

1 I, REPLIED Axius, should like you to begin with 
the ' post-principia," ' as they say in camp — with 
modern times, I mean, rather than with remoter 
ages, for more profit is made out of peacocks than 
out of hens. And what is more, I will not conceal 
my wish to hear first about the ''ornithon," since 
fieldfares have made it a term synonymous with 
**gain," for the 60,000 sesterces (;£'48o) of Fir- 
cellia^ kave wonderfully stimulated my desire. 

2 Said Merula: There are two kinds of aviary. 
One (and it has many admirers) made for pleasure, 

' A posiprincipiis. Cf. Plautus (Persa, iv, 1,4): 

Atqie edepol ferme ut quisque rem accural suam 

Sic li procedunt postprincipia denique 

Si valus aut nequamst male res vortunt quas agit 

And Geiliis (xvi, 18): Sed haecy inquit M. Varro, aut omnino 
non discimts autprius desistemus quam intelligemus curdiscenda 
sint. Volubtas autem inquit vel utilitas talium disciplinatum in 
postprincip'is exsistit cum perfectae absolutaeque sunt, in prin- 
cipiis vero psis ineptae et insuaves videntur. 

Barn-do»r fowls were the principia, peacocks the postprin- 
cipia. Th» word, used metaphorically, is fairly common. Cf. 
Cicero (Pr* Sestio, 55) : posiprincipia vitiosae vitae ; but of its 
use in the literal sense I can find no trace. It is not noticed 
in Kempf; Sermonis Castrensis Reliquiae. 

^ Fircelina. Cf. iii, 2, 15. Varro's maternal aunt must 
therefore lave been called Fircellia. 



264 



VARRO ON FARMING 



[rk. 



such as that of our friend Varro here, who has built 
one close to Casinum ; the other for profit, to which 
kind belong the enclosures which certain people 
who supply the market possess in Rome and in the 
country — the latter being generally let to tenants in 
the Sabine district, as there, owing to the nature of 
the soil,^ fieldfares are to be found in large num- 
3 bers. Lucullus claimed that the aviary on hisTus- 
culan estate made by combining these two kinds, 
formed a third kind. It was built so as to hsve in 
the same building — in the *'ornithon," thst is — 
a dining-room, where he could dine delicate.y and 
see fieldfares, some lying cooked in the dish, whilst 
others fluttered about the windows of their prison. 
But the experiment failed because the sight of birds 
fluttering on the inside of windows does na please 
the eye as much as the disagreeable smel which 
fills one's nostrils offends the nose. 



CHAPTER V 



OF FIELDFARES 



I However, Axius, as I think you prefer it so, I 
will first discuss the aviary built for profit, whence, 
not where,^ fatted fieldfares are taken. Wel|, a large 

^ Agri naturam. The country about Casinum atounded in 
olive plantations, and fieldfares are very fond of oli\es. 

^ Unde non uhi. I have translated Varro's play u3on words 
literally. He means, of course, that he will descrite the kind 



Ill] OF FIELDFARES 265 

domed building, a peristyle/ as it were, covered 
with tiles or net, is constructed, in which several 
thousands of fieldfares and blackbirds may be en- 
2 closed, though some people add to them other birds 
as well, which, when fattened, fetch a good price, 
such as ortolans^ and quails. Into this building 
water should be brought by means of a pipe, and 
it had better then flow slowly along narrow troughs 
such as can easily be cleaned out (for if the water 
spreads over a large area it is more easily fouled 
and it is not so good to drink), and the over- 
flow ' from these should be taken off by a pipe, lest 

of aviary from which birds are taken {sumuntur) to the market, 
not that of Lucullus, in which they are eaten {sumuntur — 
consuviuntur). 

^ Ut peristylum. Keil thinks the text sound here, Schneider 
proposes aut^ and remarks that a testudo^ the essential part of 
which was its dome, would need neither tiles nor net. 

^ Miliariae. Cf. Varro, L. L., v, 11 : Ficedulae et miliariae 
a cibo quod alterae fico alterae milio fiant pingues. The Greek 
word KtyxpoQ means "millet," and Ktyxplg seems to be the 
"ortolan." 

' Caduca. Keil quotes here Fronto (De Aquis, ii, 94), to 
show that aqua caduca was a technical phrase to indicate the 
overflow from a tank or the droppings from a pipe, and goes 
on to remark : Ex quihus apud Varronem dilucidafit verhorum 
coniunctlOy in qua interpretes haeserunt. But I cannot see how 
this gets over the difficulty perceived by Ursinus and Schneider. 

The water goes in by a pipe, is distributed along several 
small runnels or troughs (canales) which converge at the 
further end of the aviary to another pipe by which it flows out 
(exit) — so that there is a continuous flow of fresh and clean 
water. This seems to be the obvious meaning. But then 
what is to be done with the words quae abundat? How 



266 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

3 the birds be harmed by the mud. The aviary should 
have a door low and narrow, and preferably of the 
kind called *'coclia"^ (rotating cage), such as is 
usually found in the amphitheatre where bulls 
fight. It must have but few windows, through 
which the trees and birds outside cannot be seen, 
for the sight of these and the longing for them 
make the imprisoned birds pine away. The place 
should have just enough light to let them see where 
to perch and where to find their food and water. 
About the doors and windows there should be a 
coating of smooth plaster, that no mouse or other 

4 animal may anywhere enter. Around the walls of 
this building on the inside should be many poles 

can water which actually overflows be made to go out per 
Jistulam7 So Ursinus proposed to expunge these words as 
being a gloss explicative of caduca. These removed the trans- 
lation would go smoothly: "And the falling water (running 
down the gutters) goes out from them by means of a pipe." 

Columella's description of the way in which water is sup- 
plied to the hen-house is interesting (viii, 3, 8) : Sunt qui aut 
aqua replentur aut cibo plumhei canales^ quos magis utiles esse 
ligneos aut fictiles covipertum est. Hi superpositis operculis 
clauduntur et a lateribus super mediam partem per spatia pal- 
maria modicis forantur cavis ita ut avium capita possint ad- 
mittere. 

^ Quod cocliam appellant, etc. I have given Gesner's inter- 
pretation of this passage ; Schneider in his index takes coclia 
to be equivalent to cataphracta, i.e., a sort of portcullis. I 
have translated cavea amphitheatre with Gesner, but suspect 
the text. In Horace (A. P., 473) it means the cage itself; 

ac velut ursus 
Obiecto caveae valuit sifrangere clatros. 



Ill] OF FIELDFARES 267 

for the birds to perch on, and also rods sloping to 
the ground from the wall, with other rods fastened 
cross-wise like the rungs of a ladder, and resem- 
bling the railings in a theatre. Water should flow 
down to the ground for them to drink, and for food 
cakes should be placed there. These cakes are 
mostly made of figs and barley well mixed together 
and rolled. Twenty days before fieldfares are wanted 
they are given a more liberal diet, that is, more 
food is set before them, and the flour now used is 
of a finer quality. In this building there should be 
recesses furnished with several shelves to supple- 
5 ment the perches, and, on the other hand, it is here 
(on the shelves) that the bird-keeper^ generally 
keeps on the spot those birds which have died in 
the aviary, so as to account for them to his master. 
When those birds that are fit are to be removed 
[for sale] from this aviary, they must be transferred 

' Aviarium. The Archetype has contra hie aviarium, etc. 
Much has been written about this passage by Gesner, Schneider, 
Keil — the latter indicating a supposed lacuna in the text by a 
star — so that it is with much distrust iudicoli met that I pro- 
pose what appears a very simple and almost certain emenda- 
tion, namely, aviarius instead of aviarium. The bird-keeper 
(aviarius) will keep any birds here that have died until his 
master sees them, etc. Thus there is a subject to solei, which 
is badly wanted, for though with Varro there is often an 
ellipsis of dominusy I can find no instance where the word 
slave — not previously mentioned — must be supplied. So, too, 
there is no need to change the hie of the Archetype into hoey 
there is no lacuna, and the whole sentence is irreproachable 
both in sense and construction. 



268 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

to a smaller one, which is united to the larger by a 
door, and has more light. This is called the 
^' Seclusorium." When the owner has thus en- 
closed the number he purposes to sell he kills them 

6 all. This is done in secret and away from the others 
lest these seeing it should mope, and die at a time 
inconvenient to the seller. 

Fieldfares do not resemble other immigrant birds 
in breeding on the ground like storks, or under the 
roof like swallows — their masculine name {turdi) 
by the way does not imply that there are no females 
amongst them, any more than the feminine name 
for blackbird {meruld) prevents blackbirds from 

7 being some of them males. Again, some birds are 
migratory, such as swallows and cranes ; others, as 
doves and hens, are indigenous, and it is to the 
former immigrant kind that fieldfares belong, for 
they fly across the sea to Italy every year about the 
autumnal ^ equinox, and about the spring equinox 
fly back to the same place [whence they came] ; so 
at a different season do turtle-doves and quails in 
vast numbers. This fact is made clear in the neigh- 

^ Circiter aequinoctium autumnale^ etc. This passage is im- 
portant as fixing the meaning of the word turdus used by 
Varro, Horace, etc., as it accurately describes the migratory 
habit of the turdiis pilaris of Linnaeus — the fieldfare — which 
visits this country in October, and leaves it in May for its 
northern breeding places. 

The fenerator Alphius of Horace's delightful second epode 
speaks of snaring turdi in the winter : 

Aut amite levi rara tendit retia 
Turdis edacihus dolos. 



Ill] OF FIELDFARES 269 

bouring islands of Pontiae,' Palmaria, and Panda- 
teria, for there on their first flight — when they came 
that is — they stay a few days to rest, and also on 
crossing the sea on their way back from Italy. 
8 Said Appius to Axius, You have only to put here 
five thousand ^ birds, and supposing a public feast or 
a triumph take place, you have at once the 60,000 
sesterces ^ (jC^So) you want, and may then lend them 
out at good interest/ Then turning to me he said, 
Now tell us, please, about the second kind of aviary, 
the one which, we are told, you built for your 
pleasure near Casinum, by it surpassing, men say, 
not only the original aviary of our friend the in- 
ventor, M. Laenius Strabo,' who was our host at 

1 Pontiis. Palmaria (Palmarola), Pontia with SInonia 
(Ponza), and Pandateria (Vandotena), are small islands lying 
about thirty-five miles off the coasts of Latlum and Campania. 

' Quinque milia, i.e., the quinque milia turdorum mentioned 
in chap, ii, § 15. 

' Sexaginta milia^ the sum mentioned (iii, 2, 15), which took 
Axius's breath away. 

* In fenus. Frequent allusion Is made in this book to the 
cupidity of Axius. When he hears of the profits made out of 
villatica pasiio, he is on fire to learn the art (2, 19); Merula, 
about to discuss aviaries, says that he will begin with that 
which is a source of gain, as he knows Axius will prefer this 
(5, i); Appius, after having given the natural history of bees, 
says that he knows Axius must be bored to death, quod de 
fructu nihil dixi {16, 9). 

The point of these allusions, I take it, lies in the fact that 
Quintus Axius, a Roman senator, and intimate friend of Cicero 
(Gellius, vii, 3, 10), was a money-lender (cf. Ad Atticum, i, 12, 
and X, 11). 

' M. Laeni Strabonis. Ernesti in the Clavis thinks that this 



270 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

Brundisium and was the first to keep shut up in a 
pillared hall birds which could be fed through a 
net thrown over it, but even the great structures on 
Lucullus's estate at Tusculum. 
9 You must know, I replied, that near the town of 
Casinum I have a river flowing through my grounds. 
It is clear and deep, with stone kerbs. Its breadth 
is fifty-seven feet, so that bridges are necessary to 
cross from one part of the villa to the other; its 
length is 950 feet, and it goes in a straight line from 
an island in the lower reach of the river, where 
another stream joins it, to the upper reach where the 
10 museum ^ (place for study) is situated. Along the 

is the man who Is mentioned by Cicero in his letter to Terentia 
(Ad Div. xiv, 4) in 58 B.C., who, despising the threats of 
Clodius, risked his life and fortune by receiving Cicero into his 
house at Brundisium. But in the text is found M. Laenius 
Flaccus. 

There is a Strabo mentioned in Ad Atticum, xii, 17, who 
seems to have been an augur. But cf. Pliny (x, 50): Aviaria 
primus instituit inclusis omnium generum avibus M. Laelius 
(Laenius?) Strabo Brundisii equestris ordinis. Ex eo coepimus 
carcere animalia coercere quibus Naiura caelum assignaverat. 

^ Ubi est Museum. Schneider points out the remarkable 
likeness of this villa of Varro's to Cicero's at Arpinum (cf. De 
Legibus, ii, capita i and 3). There the river Fibrenus is divided 
into two streams by an island, and this island Cicero describes 
as his museum. Nam. illo loco libentissime soleo uti sive quid 
m£cum ipse cogito, sive quid aut scribo aut lego. One wonders 
if Varro's ** museum" were the island itself, and if one should 
read, ab insula a Museo, etc., and regard Ubi est Museum? as 
the query of a commentator who did not understand this! In 
that case huius would refer to the island, and circum would 
have its proper meaning. Local tradition places **lo studio di 



Ill] OF FIELDFARES 271 

banks of the stream is an uncovered walk ten feet ^ 
broad ; off this walk and in the direction of the open 
ground is the place where the aviary stands shut in 
on tsvo sideS) right and left, by high walls. Between 
these walls is the site of the aviary, fashioned in 
the likeness of a boy's writing-tablet with its ring^ 
at the top. It measures in the rectangular part 
forty-eight by seventy-two feet; where it is circular, 
at the upper end of the enclosure, twenty-seven 
feet. In addition, figuring, as it were, the lower 
margin of the writing tablet, there is a "walk," 
and connected with the aviary a plumula ^ (little 

Marco Varrone " not far from the right bank of the Rapido 
facing a little island situated at the junction of the two streams. 
So I learnt from the village priest (il padre Benedetto del Greco) 
who showed me over the site of Varro's villa. 

^ Denos surely must be decern. The numeral x would stand 
for either. 

* Cum capitulo. Cf. Horace's frequently-quoted line (Sat. I, 

6,74): 

Laevo suspensi loculos tahulamque Jacerto 

on which the Scholiast: tabulam, huxuin in quo meditantur 
scribere. The quaad which follows, written by Keil as one 
word, should surely be two, qua ad capitulum^ etc. 

' Plumula. In this word some of the older commentators 
saw the pteron (wTtpov) of Pliny (xxxvi, 5), or the TTTeptofiara 
(wings) of Vitruvius (iii, 2) ; others thought that the word was 
corrupt and concealed a number, thus: P Iviii, that is fifty- 
eight feet. Neither view appears promising. Perhaps the word 
represents some adjective agreeing with amhulatio, such as 
proxuma or plurima (of considerable extent); or stands for 
plurimae agreeing with caviae, the translation then being "a 
walk adjoining the aviary in the middle of which, at the place 



272 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

wing), in the middle of which are bird-cages where 
the entrance to the quadrangle is placed. At the 
threshold and along the sides right and left colon- 
nades are arranged, the front columns being of 
stone, and instead of columns between them and 
the wall there are dwarf trees, while from the 
top of the wall to the architrave the colonnade is 
covered by a hempen net which is continued also 
from the architrave to the stylobate. These colon- 
nades are filled with all kinds of birds which are 
fed through the net, and water flows to them in a 
12 tiny stream. Adjoining the inner side [t.e, facing the 
area] of the stylobate at the upper end of the quad- 
rangular space, two separate narrow oblong ponds 
stretch from the middle of the quadrangle in the 
direction of the colonnades. Between these ponds 
is a path, the only means of access to the tholus 
beyond, which is a rotunda supported by pillars, as 

where the entrance to the quadrangle stands, are many bird- 
cages. " I am aware that such conjectures without some further 
support are not valuable ; but the passage seems to need strong 
medicine, and the copyist has been very careless throughout 
this description. For example, five lines further down he has 
artihusculis for the obvious arbusculis, and (lo) ad stylobate for 
stylohaten. In limine^ too, I believe to be an explanation, inter- 
polated in the text, of the previous clause ; for, it will be re- 
membered, the aviary is enclosed by walls only on two sides, 
so that the arrangement described in lines 6-9 could not have 
been in limine. 

This second avihulatio may have been either the usual 
' ' alley " of clipped box, etc. , or a covered colonnade. Cf. Cicero, 
Ad Q. F., iii : Ita omnia convestit hedera^ qua hasim villae qua 
intercolumnia ambulationis. 



Ill] OF FIELDFARES 273 

is the case with Catulus's ^ hall if you put pillars 
instead of walls. Beyond these pillars is a wood of 
great trees planted by hand, which admits light 
only at the lower part, and the whole is shut in by 

'3 high walls. Between the outside pillars of the 
domed building, which are of stone, and the slender 
inside ones, the same in number, which are of fir, is 
a space five feet in width. The outside columns are 
joined together by a net made of gut, which serves 
as a wall, so that it is possible to look out into the 
wood and see what is there, without a bird being 
able to get through. The inner pillars are connected 
by a fowling-net thrown over them, instead of a 
wall. Between the inner and outer pillars there has 
been constructed, as it were, a little bird-theatre, 
with seats rising tier by tier, since on all the pillars 
many brackets have been placed as " seats " for the 

[4 birds. Within the net are birds of all kinds, mostly 
songsters, such as nightingales and blackbirds, 
which are served with water by means of a small 
gutter, while food is thrown to them under the net. 
Under the stylobate of the pillars is stone-work one 
foot nine inches high above a platform,^ which is 

' In aede Catuli. The porticus Catuli built de manubiis Cini- 
bricis is well known (cf. Cicero, Pro Dom. Sua, 38) ; but I can 
find no reference save here to an aedes Catuli. The word aedes^ 
of course, quite frequently — especially in Plautus and Livy — 
means '* hall " as well as ** temple." 

' Falere. This word is not to be met with except in this 
chapter. It is connected by the difierent commentators with 
(i) ^oAopoc or ^oAepoc, white; (2) Falerii^ a city built on a high 

T 



274 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

itself two feet above a pond, and five feet wide, so 
that guests can walk round to their cushions and 
the small columns.^ Lowest of all and surrounded 
by the platform is a pond having a margin a foot 
wide, and in the middle of the pond is a little 
island. Round about the quay docks have also 
15 been cut out as houses for the ducks. In the island 
is a small column which has inside it a vertical rod 
that supports, instead of a table, a wheel with 
spokes, and at the circumference of the wheel where 
is generally the curved felloe is a board hollowed 

rock; {^) falerae or phalerae (Keil), the breast ornaments of 
horses or men. 

May it not be for Phalerum'i The <}>a.\ripov, the western 
harbour of Athens, was almost circular in form. The navalta 
{vtu)(ToiKoi), mentioned later, would then continue the metaphor. 
I ought, perhaps, to have translated **a circular quay." 

^ Columellas. It is difficult to determine what is meant by 
these. Are they the columnas tenues of § 13, or small pillars — 
not mentioned before — which served as tables for the guests? 
Keil, however, considers that all previous commentators have 
erred in thinking that there were any guests at all to be fed, 
and holds that the ducks were themselves the convivae. He 
reminds us that Varro had already disapproved (4, 3) of 
Lucullus's practice of having a dining-room in the aviar\'. 
But what need had ducks of culcitael Why the elaborate 
arrangement described for providing drink {ad hihendum) as 
well as food if it was for ducks which swam in a pond ? And 
why have hot water laid on for them ? The aviary was built 
for pleasure {animi causa), and to it Varro, no doubt, often 
took his guests, and when they were there gave them, not 
indeed a cena, but perhaps a cold lunch laid out on the rotating 
table. The hot and cold water was of course to mix with their 
wine and to cleanse their hands after eating. 



Ill] OF FIELDFARES 275 

out like a tambourine, two-and-a-half feet wide and 
four inches deep. It can be turned by a single 
serving-man, and on it all the things to eat and 
drink can be set at the same time and moved round 

16 to each guest. From the side of the quay where the 
coverlets ^ are usually found the ducks walk into the 
pond and swim about in it. The pond is connected 
with the two fish-ponds I mentioned by a stream, 
and little fishes swim constantly backwards and 
forwards, while from the circular board forming the 
table, which, as I said, is at the ends of the spokes, 
hot and cold water is made to flow to each guest by 

17 the turning of different taps. Inside, under the 
dome, the morning star ^ by day, the evening star 

^ Uhi Solent esse peripetasmata. This Is said in precisely the 
same way as the ubi orbile solet esse above, and does not mean 
that peripetasmata were actually allowed to hang down. The 
falere evidently served as the lectus of the guests, and the sug- 
gestum faleris , the side facing the pond, corresponded with the 
space under the seat of the lectus "where the peripetasmata 
usually hang." These were the same as the better known 
vestes stragulae — richly embroidered coverlets which were 
spread over the couches and hung down from them to the 
floor. 

The rotating table was, I imagine, a foot or so above the 
level of the falere not interrupting the view of the pond, so 
that Varro's guests might sit or recline in comfort while en- 
joying the bird concert, watching the ducks and fishes in the 
pond, and eating their luncheon. 

* Lucifer interdiu. Lucifer and Hesperus, as of course 
Varro knew, were different names for the same star Venus. 
Cf. Pliny (ii, 8) : Infra solem ambit ingens sidus, appellatum 
Veneris. . . . Praeveniens quippe et ante matutinum exoriens, 



276 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

by night, move round the lower part of the hemi- 
sphere in such a way as to indicate the hour. In the 
middle of the same hemisphere, which has a spindle 
in the centre, is painted the cycle of the eight 
winds, like the Jiorologium ^ at Athens made by the 
Cyrrestian, and projecting from the spindle a pointer 
so moves to the circle as to touch the sign of what- 
ever wind is blowing at the time, so that any one 
inside can tell. 
8 As we were saying this, shouting was heard in 
the Campus. We who were old hands at electioneer- 
ing were not surprised, knowing how excited voters 

Luciferi nonien accipity ut sol alter diem maturans: contra ah 
occasu refulgens nuncupatur Vesper, etc. 

I believe, with Schneider, that here are meant certain images 
which moved round the lower part of the tholtts where the 
hours were marked, and that they were actuated by some 
such clepsydra as that described by Vitruvius (ix, 9) under the 
name of CtpoXoyiov vSpavXucov — a complicated arrangement of 
wheels and water. Clepsydrae, which indicated the hour at 
night, as well as by day, were common in Rome after 159 B.C. 

^ Horologium. This was an octagonal tower made of marble 
which contained a clepsydra that gave die hour of the day or 
night. Each of the eight sides of the tower corresponded to 
the direction from which one of the eight winds blew, and 
had engraved on the frieze a picture of that wind. At the 
summit of the sloping roof there was the figure of a Triton 
holding in his hand a rod with which he pointed to the picture 
of the wind which was blowing at the time. This tower was 
built by Andronicus of Cyrrhus about the middle of the first 
century B.C., and is still to be seen at Athens. There is a 
good engraving of it in Seyffert's (Sandys and Nettleship) 
"Dictionary of Classical Antiquities," p. 648, and a careful 
description of it in Vitruvius, i, 6. 



Ill] OF PEACOCKS 277 

get on these occasions, but still we wanted to know 
what it meant, whereupon Pantuleius Parra^ came 
to us with the news that while they were checking 
the votes at the table some one had been caught 
throwing voting tablets into a ballot-box,'' and 
had been haled before the Consul by the supporters 
of the rival candidates. Pavo got up, for it was said 
that the man caught was the person who had been 
put in charge of his candidate's ballot-box. 



CHAPTER VI 

OF PEACOCKS 

I Axius remarked on this: Now that Fircellius has 
gone you may speak freely about peacocks, for had 

' Parra. A bird of evil omen. Cf. Horace (Odes, iii,27, i): 

Impios parrae recinentis omen 
Ducat et praegnans cants . . . 

and the Eugubine Tables (beginning). 

* In loculum. For the more common cistam. It is inter- 
esting to find that in this year, 54 B.C., a determined effort 
was made by Cato to check bribery at elections, and Plutarch 
(Life of Cato, about the middle) tells us that he greatly em- 
barrassed the candidates, so much so that " they decided to 
deposit 500 sestertia (cf Cicero, Ad Att., iv, 15, which fixes the 
date) each, and then to canvass in a fair and legal manner. 
If any one were convicted of bribery he was to forfeit his 
deposit." A few paragraphs further on he writes: "This 
Favonius stood for the ofiice of Aedile and apparently lost it ; 
but Cato upon examining the votes, and finding several of 



278 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

you said anything disrespectful ' of them in his 
presence he would probably have had a bone^ to 
pick with you for the honour of his clan. To him 
Merula answered : As to peacocks, why I remember 
the time when people first began to keep flocks of 
them and sell them at a big price. M. Aufidius 
Lurco ^ is said to make more than 60,000 sesterces 
(;^48o) a year out of these birds. 

If profit be your object there should be consider- 
ably fewer cocks than hens, if pleasure, it is the 
other way about, for the cock is the handsomer of 
the two. 

They should be fed on the farm in flocks. It is 
said that beyond the sea they are reared on islands, 
as, for instance, at Samos in the grove of Juno, and 
on Planasia,' an island which belongs to M. Piso. 

them inscribed in the same hand-writing, appealed against 
the fraud, and the tribunes set aside the election." 

It looks very much as though the fraud mentioned by 
Plutarch were the same as that alluded to in Varro's text. 

^ Secus here = male, a not uncommon use, especially in Sallust. 

^ Serram, There seems to be no reason to suspect the text, 
as Scaliger and others have done. Quarrelsome altercation 
is well expressed by the metaphor of the two-handed saw. 
Tertullian (De Corona, 2) has : Et quamdiu per hanc lineam 
serram reciprocabimus? 

^ M. AufiditLs Lurco. Cf. Pliny (x, 20): "The first to kill 
a peacock for the table was the orator Hortensius on the 
occasion of an inaugural dinner of the Pontifices ; to fatten 
peacocks, M. Aufidius Lurco about the close of the war against 
the Pirates (67 B.C.). From this source he made an income 
of 60,000 sesterces." 

^ Planasia. Now Pianosa, a small island about twenty 



Ill] OF PEACOCKS 279 

To form a flock birds of good age and shape 
are bought, for to this creature nature has given 
the palm for shapeliness and beauty over all other 
winged things. Pea-hens under two^ years old are 
no use for breeding, and they cease to be so when 

3 too old. They eat any kind of grain given them, 
with a preference for barley. Seius gives them a 
modius (peck) of barley each per month, taking 
care, however, to increase the allowance (for the 
cock birds) at the breeding season before copula- 
tion begins. He expects his keeper to produce 
three chicks to each pea-hen, and for each chicken 
when grown he gets 50 denarii" {£1 12^.), so that 

4 no bird is so profitable as the peacock. He also 
buys eggs and puts them under hens, and the 
chickens that are hatched he takes from them and 
puts in the domed building^ where he keeps his 

miles due south of Elba. Cf. Columella (viii, 11, i): Itaque 
hoc genus alitum nemorosis et parvulis insults, quales ohiacent 
Italiae facillime continetur. Nam quoniam nee suhlimiter potest 
nee per longa spatia volitare, turn etiam quia Juris ac noxiorum 
animalium rapinae metus non est sine custode lato vagatur 
maioremque pahuli partem sibi acquirit. 

' Bimae should almost certainly be trimae, for, as Schneider 
points out, Aristotle, Columella, Pliny, Aelian, and the Geo- 
ponica all fix three years as the earliest age at which pea-hens 
begin to lay, and this is confirmed by modern experience. 

^ Quinquagenis denariis. Fifty denarii = 100 sesterces = 
about £,1 \2s. 

' Testudinem. For an interesting and detailed account of 
the "peacock-house" cf. Columella, viii, 11, 3. In this he 
states that separate pens must be made, one for each cock- 
bird and the five hens assigned to him. 



28o VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

peacocks. This building should be made of a 
size proportionate to the number of peacocks kept 
in it, and should have separate sleeping places 
having a smooth coating of plaster to prevent any 

5 serpent or other animal from getting in. It should 
also have a space in front of it, where the chickens 
may go out to be fed on sunny days. These birds 
require both places to be clean; and so their keeper 
must go round with a shovel and remove the 
droppings, which he will keep carefully, as they 
are useful for tillage and as litter for the chickens. 

6 It is said that these birds first appeared on the table 
at a dinner-party given by Q. Hortensius to cele- 
brate his election as augur, an extravagance which 
was at that time commended only by the luxurious, 1 
not by men of virtue and prudence. His example 
was speedily followed by many, and the price paid 
for them went up in consequence, so that their eggs 
sell now for 5 denarii ^ (3^. 3^?.) apiece, while the 
birds themselves fetch without difficulty 50 denarii 
(;£i i2s.) a head, and a flock of one hundred easily 
makes 40,000 sesterces (;^32o), and Abuccius indeed 
used to say that by requiring three chickens to 
each hen, 60,000 sesterces (£^86) might be made. 

^ Denariis quints. Macrobius (ii, 9), writing about the be- 
ginning of the fifth century a.d., quotes this passage, adding: 
Ecce res non admiranda solum sed eiiam pudenda ut ova pav- 
onum quinis denariis veneant; quae hodie non dicam vilius sed 
ovinino non veneunt. 

The sum of 60,000 sesterces is made up thus : 100 hens pro- 
duce 300 chickens, which fetch each 50 denarii or 200 sesterces ; 
300 X 200=60,000. 



Ill] OF PIGEONS 281 

CHAPTER VII 

OF PIGEONS 

1 Meanwhile Appius's servant came from the 
Consul, and said that the augurs were wanted. 
Appius went out from the Hall, and at that 
moment there fluttered into it a flock of pigeons, 
giving Merula occasion to say to Axius: Now 
if ever you had set up a pigeon-house, you 
might have imagined these birds to be yours, wild 
though they are. For in a pigeon-house there are 
usually the two kinds, one wild pigeons, or rock- 
pigeons as some call them, kept in turrets and 
gable-ends (columen) of the farmstead — it is from 
columen they get the name columbae — and seek- 
ing the highest places on buildings through their 
inborn timidity. Hence the wild kind mostly haunt 
turrets, flying up to them from the fields and back 

2 again as the fancy takes them. The other kind of 
pigeon is less shy, for it feeds contentedly at home 
about the doorstep. This is generally white,' while 
the other, the wild kind, is of diff"erent colours, but 
not white. From the union of these two stocks 

^ Colore alho. Cf. Columella (viii, 8, 9): "The white kind, 
which is commonly seen everywhere, is not much approved 
of by some people, though the colour is well enough for 
pigeons which are kept in confinement. For those which fly 
about freely it is the worst possible, as it is most easily espied 
by the hawk." 



282 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

comes a third mongrel kind which is bred for profit. 
These are put into a place called by some a per- 
tsteron, by others a peris terotrophion^ in which 
often as many as five thousand birds are confined. 

3 The peristeron is built in the shape of a large 
testudo with a vaulted roof. It has a narrow en- 
trance and windows latticed in the Carthaginian ^ 
fashion, or wider than these are and furnished 
with a double trellis, so that the whole place may^ 
be well lit and no snake or other noxious animal 
may be able to get in. Inside every part of th< 
walls and ceilings is coated with the smoothest 
possible cement made from marble; outside, too, 
the walls in the neighbourhood of the windows an 
plastered over to prevent a mouse or a lizard creej 
ing by any way into the pigeon cotes. For nothing 

4 is more timid than a pigeon. Many round niches' 
are made in a row, one for each pair of pigeons,] 
and there should be as many rows as possible fromj 
ground to ceiling. Each niche should be made s( 
that the pigeon may have an opening just big^ 
enough for it to come in and out, and should have 
an inside diameter of three palms (one foot). Under 
each row of pigeon-holes a shelf, eight inches 

^ Punicanis. The Carthaginians gave their name to many 
things made of wood, as for example the plostellum Poenicum 
(Varro, i, 52, i), the lectus Punicanus (Isidore, xx, 11), Puni- 
cana coagmenta (Cato, xviii, 2), etc. 

'^ Columbaria. The writer of the article ** Pigeon" in the 
** Encyclopaedia Britannica," after criticizing severely modern 
dove-cotes, in his description of the properly constructed pigeon- 
house unconsciously plagiarizes from Varro. 



Ill] OF PIGEONS 283 

broad, should be attached to the wall, which the 
birds can use as a landing, and walk on to it when 

5 they like. There should be water flowing ^ in for 
their drinking and washing, for pigeons are very 
clean birds. The pigeon-keeper should, therefore, 
sweep the place out several times a month, as the 
dirt made there is an excellent manure, so much 
so that some authors speak of it as the best of all. 
If any pigeon has come to any harm the keeper 
must look after it, if one has died he must remove it, 
and if any young birds are fit for sale he must bring 

6 them out. He must also have a fixed place, which 
is shut ^ off from the others by a net, to which the 
hen-birds that are sitting may be transferred, and 

* Quae influat. The reading of the Archetype is quo influai^ 
which is supported by the Geoponica (xiv, 6) : "A fairly large 
bathing place should be dug in the pigeon-house for the birds 
to bathe and drink in, so that the keeper may not have to 
disturb the birds frequently in order to give them water." 
Columella, however (viii, 8, 5), says that "the drinking ves- 
sels should be similar to those used for hens, should admit 
only the necks of the birds, and should be too narrow to allow 
of their bathing, which is bad for the eggs or chickens on 
which they are sitting." 

^ Disclusum ab aliis. Cf. Columella (viii, 8, 4): "On the 
outside, too, the walls should have a coating of smooth 
plaster — especially about the window. This must be so situ- 
ated as to admit the sunlight for the greater part of the 
winter's day, and it should have appended to it a fairly large 
house protected by nets in order to keep out the hawks, to 
admit the pigeons that are going out to sun themselves, and 
to let the mother birds, sitting on eggs or chickens, out to 
the fields, lest saddened by the slavery of continuous confine- 
ment they fall sick. When they have flown about the build- 



284 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

it must be possible for the mothers to fly out of it 
away from the pigeon-cote. For this there are two 
reasons: (i) because, in case they are losing appe- 
tite and are growing feeble in captivity, a flight into 
the country and the free air brings back their 
strength; (2) because, they act as a decoy; ' for they 
themselves in any case come back to the pigeon- 
cote because of their young ones, unless they are 
killed by a crow or caught by a hawk. These latter 

7 pigeon-keepers generally kill by means of two limed 
twigs, which are stuck in the ground and then bent 
so as to touch each other. An animal of the kind 
on which hawks prey is then tied between them, 
and so, smearing themselves with the birdlime they 
are beguiled. That pigeons do return to a place is 
shown by the fact that people often let them fly 
from their laps in the theatre, and they return 
home, and unless they did so they would never be 

8 let loose. Food is given them in small troughs 
placed round the walls, which are filled from out- 
side by means of pipes. They are fond of millet, 
wheat, barley, peas, kidney-beans, and vetch. Much 
the same methods must be adopted — as far as pos- 
sible — by those who keep wild pigeons in turrets 
and on the roof of the farmhouse. 

ings for a little while they come back cheered and refreshed 
to their young ones." 

^ Propter inlicium. The Geoponica (xlv, 3) state that if you 
anoint your pigeons with myrrh, or add cummin or old wine 
to their food, "all the neighbouring pigeons noticing the 
sweetness of their breath will come to your dove-cote." 



Ill] OF PIGEONS 285 

For your pigeon-house you must get birds of the 
right age — not young chicks and not old hens — and 

9 as many cocks as hens. Nothing is more prolific 
than the pigeon. Thus within the space of forty days 
a hen-bird conceives, lays, hatches, and rears its 
young. And this is continued all the year round/ 
the only interval being from the winter solstice to 
the spring equinox. They have two young ones at 
a time, and when they have grown up and come to 
their strength these go on breeding at the same 
time as their mothers. Those who fatten young 
pigeons to increase their market value keep them 
apart from the others as soon as they are covered 
with down. Then they stuff them with chewed^ 
white bread; in winter twice a day, in summer 

,0 three times, morning, noon, and evening; in winter 
the middle meal being cut off. Those which are 
beginning to get their wing feathers have their 
legs broken,' and, left in the nest, are given over 
to their mother's care, for so she feeds them and 

Totum annum. Cf. Columella (viii, 8, 9): Nam et octies 
anno pullos educat si est bona matrix. 

^ Manducato. From a curious passage in Columella (viii, 
10, 4) it appears that men were hired to do this chewing, and 
that they got a good price for the work. Hanc quiiiam man- 
dunt et Ha ohiciunt. Sed istud in maiore numero facere vix 
expedite quia nee parvo conducuntur qui mandant et ab its 
ipsis aliquanium propter iucunditatem (he is speaking of a 
mixture of figs and flour) consumitur. 

' Inlisis cruribus. Columella (viii, 8, 12) repeats this, add- 
ing: "the broken legs cause them pain for not more than 
two days or at most three ** 1 



286 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

herself all day long. Birds thus reared fatten more 
quickly than others, and the mother birds become 
white. ^ 

At Rome if a pair are handsome, of good colour, 
without blemish, and of a good breed, they sell 
quite commonly for 200 sesterces (;Ci 12^.), while 
a pair of exceptional merit will fetch 1,000 sesterces jb 
(;^8).^ Lately, when a trader wanted to buy them atH 
that price from L. Axius, a Roman eques, the latter 
refused to part with them for less than 400 denarii 
I (12 guineas). Said Axius: If I could have bought 
a ready-made pigeon-house just as I bought earth- 
enware pigeon boxes when I wanted them at my 
house, I should by this time have gone to buy it 
and have sent it on to my villa. Just as though, 
said Pica, there were not at this moment plenty of 
pigeon-houses in Rome as well as in the country! 
Or do you ^ consider that people who have dove- 

^ Candidae. One does not see why abundant food and 
assiduous care of their young should make the parent birds 
white ! Schneider conjectured grandiores instead of the can- 
didiores of the ante-Victorian editions. 

^ Singulis milihiLs. Cf. Columella (viii, 8, 9) : "As Marcus 
Varro, a great authority, assures us, for he states that even 
in those less luxurious times a pair frequently fetched a 
thousand sesterces." 

^ Tihe. The reading found in all the MSS. The forms 
tibe (older tihei)^ sibe, are common in inscriptions of Varro's 
time. Cf. Lex Rubria, 49 B.C., etc. Quintilian (i, 7, 24) says: 
Sibe et quase in multorum lihris est; sed an hoc voluerint 
auctores nescio. T. Livium ita his usum ex Pediano comperi 
qui et ipse eum sequebatur; haec nos i litterafinimus. 



Ill] OF TURTLE-DOVES 287 

cotes on the tiles* do not possess pigeon houses, 
though some of these have a plant worth more than 
100,000 sesterces (;^8oo)? Now I should advise you 
to buy the whole plant belonging to one of them, 
and before building- in the country to learn 
thoroughly here in Rome how to pocket the big 
gain of fifty per cent.^ every day. Now, Merula, 
will you go on to the next subject? 



CHAPTER VIII 

OF TURTLE-DOVES 

Said he: For turtle-doves, as for pigeons, you 
must build a place of a size proportionate to the 
number of birds you mean to rear, and it, too, as 
we said when speaking of pigeons, must have an 
entrance, windows, pure water, and walls and ceil- 
ings protected with plaster; but instead of pigeon- 
holes* along the wall, shelves or poles placed in a 

' In tegulis. Cf. Columella (viii, 11, 3): Fiunt arundinea 
septa in modum cavearum qualia columbaria tectis superpon- 
untur. 

^ Aedijicas does not seem to be Latin; aedifices should be 
read. 

' Assem temissem. Victorius (p. 120) says in rcj^ard to this 
passage: Antiquorum librorum lectio. In excusis ''Ex asse 
semissem " antea legebatur. This would mean *' the big profit 
of 50 per cent, a day." 

' Pro columbariis. Because the turtle-dove did not breed in 
captivity. Cf. Columella (viti, 9, i): Turlurutn educatio super- 



288 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

row, on which little mats made of hemp are placed. 
The lowest row should not be less than three feet 
from the ground, between the other rows there 
should be nine inches, and between the top row 
and the ceiling six inches; the row should be of the 
breadth the shelf can be made to project from the 
wall, and upon these shelves the birds feed ^ day and 
night. For food they are given dry wheat, about 
half a peck a day for every 120 turtle-doves. Their 
quarters are swept out daily lest they suffer harm 
from the dung,^ which is, moreover, kept for tillage. 
The best time for fattening them is near the time ol 
harvest,^ for the mother-birds are then at their best 

vacua esty quoniam id genus in omithone nee parit nee excudit. 
He goes on to say that they are fattened as soon as caught, 
and that the best time to do so is in summer, as it is difficult 
to fatten them in winter, and the price obtained for them 
is lowered by reason of the abundance of fieldfares at that 
season. 

^ Paseuntur. Columella (viii, 9, 3) closely follows Varro, 
but enters into greater detail : "The places made for turtle- 
doves are not boxes or little chambers hollowed out in the 
walls as is the case for pigeons. Instead shelves (brackets) 
are fastened to the walls in a straight line, and these are 
covered with little hempen mats. Nets are thrown over them 
to prevent the birds from flying, as they lose flesh if they do. 
On these shelves they are diligently fed with millet or wheat, 
which must not be other than dry." 

^ A stereore. Columella ijoc. cit) continues: **The mats 
must be carefully cleaned lest the dung burn the feet of the 
birds." 

^ Circiter messem. Columella {loc. cH.) says: "About har- 
vest time when the young broods have now grown strong. " 

The practice of fattening turtle-doves in large numbers was 



Ill] OF POULTRY 289 

when most chicks are being born, and the latter are 
more easily fattened at this time. Thus they are 
especially profitable at this season of the year. 



CHAPTER IX 

OF POULTRY 

I I MISS, said Axius, two branches of the art of 
fattening * birds, those connected with wood pigeons 
and hens, I mean, and I shall be glad if you, Merula, 
will now speak about them — then if anything in 
the other branches remains proper to be discussed 
we can discuss^ it. Well [said Merula] the term 

common in the thirteenth century in Italy. Crescentius (late 
thirteenth century) writes: "The fowlers of Lombardy, espe- 
cially at Cremona, net wild turtle-doves all through the summer 
and shut them up in a small well-lighted building. They give 
them clean water and as much millet seed as they will eat, 
and keep them until winter or well into the autumn. As many 
as fifteen hundred of them are kept in one place, and grow 
ineffably fat ! " 

' Farturae. The reading of the Archetype was sarsurae 
assurae. It seems probable that the second word is a careless 
repetition of the first, and that sarsurae is iov farturae ^ though 
the latter corruption is difficult to account for. In the next 
line Keil brackets palumbis — wrongly 1 think, for (i) the 
plural membra implies at least two branches, and (2) after 
liens have been discussed, a few words are actually given to 
wood-pigeons— ^/ttw^/j (9, 21). Perhaps the original words 
were de palumbis et gallinis. 

■ Ratiocinari. Properly a book-keeper's word, meaning to 
"audit an account/' to "reckon." Cf. Cicero (Phil., ii, 22): 

U 



290 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

poultry includes fowls of three kinds — barn-door, 
2 wild, and African. Barn-door^ fowls are those 
which are commonly kept at farmhouses in the 
country. With regard to these, he who means to 
set up a poultry-farm — with the object, that is, of 
making large profits by the application of skill and 
diligence, as the Delians^ in particular have ever 
done — must give heed to these five points: (i) buy- 
ing: the kind and number to be bought; (2) breed- 
ing: the conditions to be observed for mating and 
laying; (3) eggs: the sitting and bringing off; 
(4) chickens: the method of rearing and the birds 

Omnia denique quae postea vidimus. Si rede ratiocinabimur, 
uni accepta referemus Antonio. The passage in the text might 
perhaps run : " If there is any useful calculation to be made 
about the other branches we can then make it " — with a hit at 
the commercial spirit of Axius. 

^ Gallinae villaticae. Cf. Columella (viii, 2, 2) : Cohortalis 
est avis quae vulgo per omnes fere villas coTispicitur. Deinceps 
in the next line is unintelligible, and I am inclined to think 
that it has strayed from the passage three lines higher : Turn 
de reliquis. Siquid, etc. , the sense of which would be improved 
by the insertion of deinceps after reliquis. 

^ Deliaci. Cf. Columella (viii, 2, 4) : Huius igitur villatici 
generis non spernendus est reditus si adhibeatur educandi 
scientia quam plerique Graecorum et praecipue celebravere 
Deliaci. He goes on to say, however, that the Delians bred 
principally fighting-cocks (Tanagrian, Rhodian, Chalcidic, 
and Median), and that he prefers the native Italian breed (of 
which he gives a detailed description) ''as a source of revenue 
for the hard-working pater familias. " He strongly disapproves 
of cock-fighting, "as often a man's whole patrimony is staked 
on a match and is carried oif by the victorious boxer {pyctes).^^ 
Cf. Pliny (x, 50) : Gallinas saginare Deliaci coepere. 



Ill] OF POULTRY 291 

by which they are to be reared; and (5) the method 
of fattening them, which forms an appendix to the 
other four heads. 

3 The term **hen" is applied in a special sense to 
female barn-door fowls; the males are called cocks, 
the half-males — those which have been castrated — 
capons. Cocks are castrated — to make them capons 
— by burning them with a hot iron at the lower 
extremities ^ of the legs until the skin bursts, and 
the sore which rises is smeared over with potter's 
clay. 

4 He who looks to have a poultry-farm complete at 
every point should of course procure all three kinds, 
but he must have, above all others, barn-door fowls. 
In buying these, those should be chosen^ which 
are prolific; their short feathers should be mostly 

* Ad infima crura. This is strange — but Columella (viii, 2, 
3) has: Nee tamen id patiuntur amissis genitalihtis, sed ferro 
candente calcaribus inustisy quae cum ignea vi consumpta sunt., 
facta ulcera^ dum consanescant, figulari creta linu?itur, and 
Pliny (x, 21): Desinunt canere castrati: quid duobus Jit modis, 
lumbis adustis candente ferro (so Aristotle, H. A., ix, 50), aut 
imis cruribus . . . facilius ita pinguescunt. 

' Eligat. Columella's description (viii, 2, 7, etc.) of the 
farm-yard fowl, which closely follows Varro's, is of the native 
Italian breed {vemaculum nostrum); consequently this is the 
breed described by Varro. 

The cock came to Italy probably from Persia (it is mentioned 
in the Zend Avesta) via Asia Minor and Greece, to which it 
was brought in the sixth or fifth century (neither Homer nor 
Hesiod mentions it, but Aristophanes frequently does so). 
Athenaeus (xiv, 20) places the original home of the cock in 
Persia. 



292 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

reddish, wing feathers black, toes of unequal 
length, heads big, crest erect, and bodies of large 

5 size, for these are the best layers. The cocks should 
be chosen for their amorous^ nature; you may 
know them by their being fleshy and having a red 
crest, a short, thick, sharp beak, gray or black eyes, 
whitish-red wattles, a striped or gold-tinged neck, 
well feathered thighs, short legs, long nails, long 
tails and wings with abundant feathers — also by 
their frequent stretching up and crowing, by their 
stubbornness in fight, and by the courage with 
which, so far from fearing animals which harm the 

6 hens, they even do battle on the hens' behalf. You 
must not, however, in choosing a breed, try to get 
Tanagrian, Median,^ or Chalcidic cocks, for though 

^ Gallos salaces qui. In the Editio Maior Keil brackets this 
quiy suggesting, however, that it may be an adverb meaning 
" somehow " ! There would seem to be three ways of dealing 
with the passage: (i) to expunge qui, "the cocks which are 
good sires are known by," etc. ; (2) to retain qui and insert 
sint taking gallos as the common (in Varro) Greek accusative, 
and (3) to read with Schneider: gallos salaces: qui animad- 
vertuntur si . . .," supplying before gallos the eligat oportet of 
line 2. This seems to me incomparably the best way of the 
three, and so I have translated. 

^ Melicos. Popular for medicos (cf. iii, 9, 19); also Festus : 
Medicae gallinae quod in Media id genus avium corporis am- 
plissimi fiaty **/" littera pro "^" suhstitutay and Columella, 
viii, 2, 4: et Medicum quod ah imperito vulgo littera mutata 
Melicum appellatur. 

Columella (viii, 2, 13) recommends that these foreign breeds 
be crossed with Italian hens: nam et paternam speciem gerunt, 
et salacitatem fecunditatemque vernaculam retinent''' He has 



Ill] OF POULTRY 293 

doubtless handsome, and excellent for cock fights 
when matched with one another, they are poor 
sires. 

Supposing that you intend to feed two hundred 
fowls you must give them an enclosed space, and 
have two hen-houses^ built in it close together 

no good word for bantams {pumiles aves) as they are not pro- 
lific or profitable, and the cocks are quarrelsome and pJerumque 
ceteros infestat et non patitur inire feminas^ cum ipse pluribus 
sufficere non queat. 

* Duae caveae. Columella's lucid account (viii, 3) of the 
hen-house may be compared with this. There were three 
contiguous cellae of which the middle one was the least, being 
7 ft. in every dimension. The other two were 12 ft. by 12 ft. 
by 7 ft. wide, and were each divided into two storeys, the 
lower chamber being 7 ft. high, the upper 4 ft. The entrance 
to the building was in the middle cella\ of the two lateral 
cellae the entrances right and left adjoined the back wall. In 
the centre of this back wall was a fire-place, the smoke from 
which drifted into each of the lateral chambers, "for," says 
Columella, " smoke is very salutary for hens," Places were 
cut out in the walls to serve as nests — or stakes were driven 
firmly in, and supported wicker baskets. In front of the nests 
were " landings " on which the hens might alight when going 
to lay or sit, for if they flew directly on to the nests they were 
apt to smash the eggs. Tlie birds were not to sleep on the 
floors "as dung does harm to their feet and produces gout "; 
and their perches were cut square. Water (which must be 
clean, for, if foul, it gives them the pip) was served to them in 
wooden or earthenware troughs provided with lids; it was 
drunk by the birds through holes in the sides which were just 
big enough to admit their necks. In the yard plenty of dust 
or ashes was laid down along the walls — in the colonnades or 
wherever there was a protecting roof— so tliat the hens might 
clean their feathers by rolling in it. 



294 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

which face south; each must be some ten feet in 
length, half as much in breadth, and a little less 
than ten feet in height. In each there should be a 
window three feet wide and a foot more in height. 
These windows should be made of osiers with wide 
interstices, so as to afford plenty of light, and yet 
preventing from getting through them any of those 
animals which harm fowls. 
7 Between the two houses there should be a door 
for the gallinarius^ their keeper, that is, to enter. 
In each hen-house there must be numerous perches 
reaching across it — enough to hold all the hens in 
fact — and opposite to each perch separate nests 
should be made for the hens. In front must be, as 
I said,^ an enclosed court where they may stay in the 
day-time and take dust-baths. There must be, be- 
sides, a large- room for the keeper to live in, while 
all round in the walls are the hens' nests,^ either 

^ Sicut dixi. This refers, no doubt, to the locus saeptus of 
§6. 

^ Cella grandis. It would appear from the text that hens' 
nests were disposed round this cella grandis in which the 
keeper lived. Varro does not state where this was situated, 
though it was probably between the two hen-houses and cor- 
responds to Columella's cella viinima {loc. cit). But in the 
latter there were no nests — only a fireplace ; and if the keeper's 
cell was between the two hen-houses it is strange that it was 
not referred to above when the door, which would lead into 
it, was mentioned. Schneider rightly suspects the text. 

' Plena cuhilia. The meaning of //^'wa— for which the edi- 
tions before Victorius substituted posita — is dark to me. Keil's 
explanation is singular: "The nests had to be full, lest the 
sitting hens should suffer from any movement." But how 



Ill] OF POULTRY 295 

cut' in the walls themselves or firmly attached to 
them, for movement is harmful when a hen is sit- 

8 ting. When they are going to lay you must strew 
chaff in their nests, and, when they have laid, this 
must be taken away and fresh put in its place, for 
otherwise fleas and other vermin breed in it, and 
prevent the hen from keeping still — the result being 
that the eggs are hatched spasmodically or else go 
bad. They say that when you want a hen to sit, 
she should not be given more than twenty-five 
eggs,^ though being a prolific animal she may have 

9 laid more, and that the best time for sitting is 
between the spring and autumn equinoxes. Accord- 
could this apply to the first case mentioned, where the nests 
were cut out in the walls, or to the second, where they were 
attached to the walls very firmly in order to prevent them 
from moving? 

I can only suggest, if plena is to be kept, that it should be 
taken closely with gallinarum (nests full of hens). 

' Aut exculpta aut adjicta. Columella (viii, 3, 4) describes 
both methods: "The walls should be built thick enough to 
admit of nests being cut in them . . . for this method is both 
healthier and more sightly than that adopted by some people 
who drive stakes well into the walls and then place wicker 
baskets upon them." 

^ XXV orva. The Geoponica give twenty-one as the maxi- 
mum number. Columella (viii, 5, 8) makes it depend on the 
month: " In January fifteen — never more than this; in March 
not less than nineteen ; in April twenty-one, and twenty-one for 
every month up to October ist. After that the number does not 
matter, as the chickens hatched in cold weather nearly always 
die." All ancient authorities agree that the number must be 
odd, and that incubation should begin when the moon is 
waxing! 



296 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

ingly the eggs laid before or after this time, as well 
as the first^ eggs laid during this time, should not 
be used for sitting, and such as are used should be 
given to quite old hens which must not have sharp 
beaks or claws, ^ rather than to pullets,^ for the time 
of the young ones should be taken up in con- 
ceiving, not sitting. They lay best when one or two 
10 years old. If you mean to put pea-hens' eggs under 
a hen, then hens' eggs may be added only after 
she has been sitting on the former nine days, and 
is beginning the tenth, so that she may bring the 
chickens off at the same time, for chickens take 
twice ten days to hatch, peacocks thrice nine.* The 

^ Prima. The Geoponica (xiv, 7) translate this TrpmroTOKa — 
"the first eggs laid by a hen." Td dk irpb tovtov tov Kaipov ?/ /itrd 
ravTa riKTofieva Kai rd irpioroToKa iravra ovx vTroOersov.^^ 

2 Ungues. Columella (viii, 2, 8) says that it is a sign of 
breeding in hens if they have five toes, but they must not have 
cross spurs like cocks, as in that case contumax ad concubiium 
. . . raroque fecunday etiam cum incuhat calcis aculeis ova per- 
fringit. 

^ Pullitris, Scaliger defends the word pullitra, not found 
elsewhere, on the analogy of porcetra — a young sow that has 
farrowed but once. The Geoponica {loc. cit. ) translate pullitris 
OLKfia^ovaaig Kai TiKTtiv dvvafitvaig. 

* Ter noveni. Schneider substitutes ter dent, inferring the 
necessity from Varro's own words ; but Varro was not the man 
to sacrifice a neat antithesis and a fine number associated 
with Pythagorean philosophy and magic spells (cf the ter 
noviens cantare of i, 2, 27) to mere pedantic accuracy. Even 
the later born Columella respects the number, not changing 
but qualifying it (cf. viii, 5, 10) : Diebus ter septenis opus est 
gallinaceo generic at pavonino et anserino paullo amplius ter 
novenis ! Pliny, however, says that the time depends upon the 



Ill] OF POULTRY 297 

sitting hens should be confined so that they may 
go on sitting night and day, with an interval in the 
early morning and evening for food and drink to 
be given them. The keeper ought to go round 
every few days and turn the QggSy so that all parts 
of them may be kept equally warm. They say you 
can tell if an Qgg is good and full or not by putting 
it into water, for an empty one floats and a full one 
sinks, but that shaking them in order to find this 
out is a mistake, as it destroys the germinal veins. ^ 
The same people tell you that the Qgg which, when 
held up to the light, appears transparent, is good 
12 for nothing. Those who want to keep eggs for 
future use rub them well with fine salt or brine for 
three or four hours. This is then washed off, and 
the eggs are covered over with bran or chaff. Care 
is taken that the number of eggs in a sitting is un- 
even. Four days after a hen begins to sit it becomes 
possible for the keeper to learn if the eggs being 
hatched contain an embryo. If he holds one to the 

weather (x, 54), *• for eggs are hatched more quickly in warm 
weather. Thus in summer eighteen days only are needed, in 
winter twenty-five." 

' Vitales venas. Pliny, who gives all three tests {he. cit.)y 
uses this expression (cf. x, 54): Concuti vero experiviento 
velatU^ quoniam non gignant confusis vitalibus vents. These 
venae vitales formed what Pliny, following Aristotle (vi, 3, 
ii. A.), calls parva velut sanj^uinea guiia, quod esse cor avium 
existimant, primum in omni corpore id gigni opinantes: in ovo 
eerie gutta salil palpitatque (x, 53). 

The Geoponica (xiv, 7) call these venae vitales. to ^wnicuv, 
also iviCki Ti Koi v^aiftoy. 



298 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

lightandfindsitis uniformly clear, it should be thrown 
away, it is thought, and another put in its place. 
3 The chickens^ that are hatched should be taken 
from the several nests and put under a hen hav- 
ing few chickens, and the few remaining eggs she 
may have should be taken from her and put under 
other hens that have not yet hatched their eggs. 
They must have less than thirty chickens, for no 
batch should exceed this number. 

For the first fifteen days after hatching you must, 
give the chicks in the morning a mixture of barley- 
meaP and cress seed, to which has been addedl 

^ Excusos pullos . . . et minus hahent triginta pullos. The' 
difficulties of this passage lie in the words ah eaque and in the ' 
last clause, which is sheer nonsense as it stands. Fortunately, 
however, there is an almost exact translation in the Geoponica 
(xiv, 7) • ''« ^^ iKKoKaTCTbiiiva veoma tvOkatg viroairaaTkov t$ tKaoTiiQ 
opviOog Kai vito^Xtitsov ry oXiyapKoixry. to, dk Trap' avry firj Ko\a(p9svTa 
u)d KaTafXEpKyrkov eig rag tri QaXitovaag 'iva fieT tKtivuiv OaXTrofiiva 
^(ooyovrJTai. ry dt oKiyapKOvay X' fiovov firj irXtov virofiXrjTtov. Now 
Schneider considers ab ea to mean ah unaquaque matre, implied 
in the words ex singulis nidis, and quotes the passage above 
from the Geoponica to support his view. But obviously Trap' 
avry must refer to ry bXtyapKovay^ not to kKaarr^Q bpvL9og, and the 
sense of the passage must be that which I have given to 
Varro's words, though it is possible, of course, that the Greekj 
is a mistranslation. 

To meet the second difficulty I would propose to place a| 
full-stop after excuderunt, and then read Et (or Ut) minus 
habeant triginta pullos (" And hens must have less than thirty 
chickens "), which would then be represented by the last sent- 
ence of the passage quoted from the Geoponica. 

2 Polentam. Pliny (xviii, 7) describes the various ways of 
making this. 



Ill] OF POULTRY 299 

bome wine ^ and water rubbed up with it a consider- 
able time before the food is to be used, lest when 
you do use it it swell up inside their bodies. They 
must be given no water. Under this mixture should 
be a layer of fine dust to prevent their beaks from 
14 being injured by the hard earth. Where the feathers 
begin to grow on the rump and from the head and 
neck you must frequently pick out the lice, which 
often make them ill. Near the hen-houses a stag's 
horn * should be burnt, so that no serpent may come 
near, for chickens commonly die from the smell of 
these animals. The chickens must be brought out 
into the sunlight and to the dung-hill where they 
may tumble ' about, for so they grow * better, and 

* Vino. Keil justifies the insertion of this word by the fact 
that in the parallel passages in Columella (viii, 5, 17) and the 
Geoponica (xiv, 9) wine is mentioned. In this he follows 
Pontedera {curae secundae). The latter writes tactam instead 
of factam, comparing the aqua tacta of 10, 5, and expunges 
intritam as a gloss explicative of tactam. 

- Comum cervinum. Columella (viii, 5, 18) says that gal- 
banum or a woman's hair may also be used for the same 
purpose. As to serpents he says: '• You must be careful that 
chickens are not breathed upon by serpents, the smell of which 
is so poisonous that it kills them every one." 

' Volutare. The reading of the Archetype was volitare, 
which seems inapplicable to chickens. Volutare is defended 
by Scaliger on the analogy of iii, 17, 7, cum mare turbaret, 
but turbare is idiomatic, not uncommon in this sense and sup- 
ported by authorities from Plautus to Cicero ; whereas Varro 
(§ 7 of this chapter) has already written in pulvere volutari — 
so that here, too, volutari should be read. 

* Alibiliores. In ii, 11, 3, we have alibiles used actively in 
the sense of " nourishing." Several of these words ending in 



300 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

15 not only the chickens, but the whole poultry-yard 
should be taken out both in summer and at all times 
when the weather is mild and it is sunny; but a net 
must be stretched overhead to prevent them from 
flying out of the enclosure or a hawk or any othei 
bird of prey from flying in from outside. Excessive] 
heat or cold must be avoided/ as either is bad foi 
them. As soon as they have their wing-feathers theyj 
should be trained to follow one or two hens, so thati 
the other hens may be free to breed instead of spend- 

i6 ing their time in rearing young ones. Sitting shoul( 
begin just after the time of new moon, for as a ruh 
the majority of sittings which are begun before this 
time do not turn out well. They take about twent] 
days to hatch. As I have said too much, perhaps,] 
about these barn-door fowls, I will make up for it 
by the brevity with which I discuss the remaininj 
topics. 

Wild ^ hens are of rare occurrence in the city and] 

-hilis have two meanings; e.g.^ penetrahilis in Ovid (Met.,j 
xii, 166) means " penetrable " {Quod iuvenis corpus millo pene» 
trahile telo)\ in Vergil "penetrating." Cf. Georg,, i, 93: 
penetrabile frigusy etc. So in English the word "healthy" 
has two senses. 

^ Kvitantein. irpoaKTsov . . . evXafSovfievov to Kav/ia. Cf. i, 
23, 3 : Quaedam etiam serenda non tarn propter praesentem 
fructum quam in annum prospicientem. 

^ Gallinae rusticae. Schneider and Keil think that this Is 
the Italian partridge. Durand de la Malle (Acad, des Inscrip- 
tions et Belles Lettres, 1838) considers them to have been fowls 
which had reverted to the primitive type. La poule, redevenue 
sauvage, ne perpituait pas son esphce dans la captivite en Italie 



Ill] OF POULTRY 301 

are hardly ever seen at Rome save tame and in a 
cage. They resemble in shape not ^ these barn-door 
fowls of ours, but the African birds (guinea-fowls). 

17 When perfect in appearance and shape they often 
take a place at public displays with parrots, white 
blackbirds, and other strange creatures of that kind. 
They lay eggs and bring off chickens in the woods, 
rarely in a farmyard. It is said that the island of 
Gallinaria gets its name from these hens {gallinae) 
— an island in the Tyrrhenian Sea situated close to 
Italy, and opposite the Ligurian mountains, Inti- 
milium and Album Ingaunum.^ Others hold that 
the name comes from our barn-door fowls which 
were brought there originally by sailors and became 

18 wild and multiplied. The African fowls (guinea 
fowls) are big, speckled, hump-backed, and are called 

comme le fait la poule sauvage des forets de Vlnde. Elle vivait 
dans les hois comme cette demikre. De plus, la couleur du coq 
et de la poule sauvages que Varron compare h celle de la pintade, 
est aussi celle de la poule et du coq sauvages de Vlnde. Or on 
sait que les animaux et les oiseaux domcstiques, abandonn^s a 
la vie sauvage, reprennent, au bout de quelques generations, la 
couleur de Vespbce primitive. 

Naturalists are agreed, I believe, that at least a large 
number, if not all, of the European species spring from the 
Indian jungle-fowl. 

* Non similes. Columella (viii, 2, 2) contradicts this rustica 
quae non dissim His villalicae per aucupem decipitu r. Kei 1 wo u 1 d 
reconcile the two statements by supposing that Varro is speak- 
ing only of those seen in Rome at shows. 

' Album Ingaunum. Pomponius Mela (c. 27) has Albi- 
gaunum. The town is now called Albenga; (ntimilium, 
Vintimiglia ; and Gallinaria, Isola d'Albenga. 



302 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

**meleagrides" ^ by the Greeks. These birds were 
the last to be introduced from kitchen to dining- 
room ^ by the luxurious taste of man. Owing to their 
scarcity they are extremely costly. 
[9 Of the three kinds barn-door fowls are most 
commonly fattened for market. They are confined 
in a place that is moderately warm, of small dimen- 
sions and admitting but little light, as movement 
and light sets them free ' from fat. For fattening, 

^ Meleagridas. Cf. Pliny (x, 26): Simili viodo pugnant 
Meleagrides in Boeotia. Africae hoc est gallinarum genus 
gibberum, variis sparsum plumis ; quae novissimae sunt peri- 
gfinarum avium in mensas receptae propter ingratum virus. 
Verum Meleagri tumulus nobiles e as fecit. Aristotle (H. A., 
vi, 2, 2) mentions the Meleagris once only, and says that their 
eggs are spotted : rwr hi Kareariyfisva diov to. toSv fitXiaypidiov Kai 
(^aaiavuiv. 

Columella (viii, 2, 2) distinguishes between the Meleagris 
and the African hen : Africana est quam plerique Numidicam 
dicunt meleagridi similis, nisi quod rutilam galeam {paleam ?) 
et cristani capite gerity quae utraque sunt in Meleagride caerulea. 
Durand de la Malle remarks on this : Columelle n'avait pas 
observS ces oiseaux d'assez pres pour s" apercevoir que la premikre 
itait la femelle et la seconde le male d'une seule et meme espkce, 
and refers to Buffbn (Hist, des Oiseaux, iii, p. 234). The 
guinea fowl, so well known to the Greeks and Romans, seems 
to have disappeared from Europe in the Middle Ages and to 
have been re-discovered only when Europeans sailed to India 
by the West Coast of Africa and the Cape of Good Hope 
(D. de la Malle). 

^ Cenantium. Keil's excellent emendation for the genanium 
of the MSS. 

^ Vindicta was the praetor's rod (properly festuca) laid on 
the head of a slave who was being made a free man. Colu- 



I 



in] OF POULTRY 303 

hens are mostly chosen, and not necessarily those 
which are improperly called **Melic" — for the 
ancients, just as they used to say Thelis for Thetis, 
so they said Melic instead of '* Medic." This name 
was given to those hens which had been imported 
on account of their great size from Media, and to 
their progeny; afterwards to all big hens owing to 
their likeness to them. Their wing-^ and tail-feathers 
are pulled out and they are crammed with cakes made 
of barley, sometimes ' of barley mixed with darnel 
flour or with linseed steeped in fresh water. They 
are fed twice a day, care being taken that the first 
meal is digested before the second is given. This is 

mella (viii, 14, 11) gives the converse of Varro's statement: 
'• Darkness and warmth help greatly the development of fat" 
— ad creandas adipes multum conferunt. 

' Ex its. Keil brackets these words without reason. The 
form of sp)eech is peculiarly Varronian — "from them, from 
their wings and tails that is " — and can be supported by a 
dozen instances from these books: cf. iii, 7, 6; iii, 13, i; i, 12, 
3 ; iii, 6, 4, etc. 

'' Parttm = aliqut, as in Cicero (Divin., ii, 9) : Caesar a nohil- 
issimis civibus, partim etiam a se omnibus rebus omatis, truci- 
datus. In the Geoponica (xiv, 7) the three kinds of food are 
distinguished: **They fatten best if they are kept in a warm 
and dark house, and their wing feathers are pulled out and 
barley mixed with water is given them as food. Others use a 
mixture of barley and darnel flour, others of barley and lin- 
seed." Columella (viii, 7, 3) recommends cakes {offae) made of 
barley flour that has been moistened and well kneaded, or, If 
you want the birds to be tender as well as fat, wheaten bread 
steeped in a good wine diluted with three times its bulk of 
water. 



304 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

indicated by certain signs.' After food has been 
given, and their heads have been thoroughly cleansed 
to ensure the absence of lice, the birds are shut up 
again. This treatment is continued for twenty-five 
days, at the end of which they are fully fattened. 
21 Some people feed them on wheaten bread steeped 
in water mixed with a sound and fragrant wine, and 
manage to have them fat and tender in twenty days 
If they lose appetite through excessive feeding, the 
daily ration must be decreased by the same differ- 
ence as it increased during the first ten days, tha 
is to say, it must be diminished by the same daily 
amount in such a way that the amounts given on 
the twentieth and the first day are equal. I n the same 
way wood-pigeons are fed and fattened. 



CHAPTER X 

OF GEESE 

I Now, said Axius, pass on to the kind which is 
not satisfied with the farm-house and dry land ^ 
only, but needs ponds as well. This kind you 
Graecophiles call amphibious {a(M<pi^iov) while to the 

^ Signis. Columella (viil, 7, 3): " Nor must you give them 
a second meal until you are sure by feeling the crop that 
nothing of the first remains." 

^ Terra. Cf. iii, 3, 2,'. In altera specie sunt quae non sunt 
contentae terra solum sed etiam aquam requirunt, ut sunt 
anseres^ querquedulae, anates. 



I 



Ill] OF GEESE 305 

place where geese are fed you give the Greek name 
chenoboscion ' (^x^\o^z<jx{iQv). Of these geese Scipio 
Metellus * and M. Seius have some large flocks/ 

Said Merula : Seius in making his flocks of geese 
was careful to attend to the following five points, 
which I mentioned when I spoke of hens^: (i) the 
choice of a stock, (2) breeding, (3) the eggs, (4) the 

- chickens, (5) fattening for market. In the first place 
he ordered the slave to see when choosing the stock, 
that they were big and white, as in most cases the 
goslings resemble their parents. For there is a 
second kind with variegated plumage — they are 
called wild geese— which do not willingly associate 

3 with the first, and do not become so tame. For 
geese the best time for mating begins with the 
winter solstice, for laying and sitting it extends 

* Chenoboscion. Described in detail by Columella (viii, 14). 
It was a courtyard enclosed by a nine feet wall and had porticoes 
all round it. Under these were the petis, built of cement or 
brick, each three feet in every dimension and having a stout 
door. If there was no river or pond near, a tank was made for 
them to dive in. 

' Scipio Metellus. Quintus Caecilius Metellus Pius Scipio, 
father-in-law of Pompey, and his colleague in the Consulship 
for part of the year 52 B.C. He committed suicide at the close 
of the civil war. 

* Greges magnos. Pliny (x, 22) mentions Metellus and Seius 
together in connection with fate gras, and says that it was 
doubtful which of the two first discovered its goodness. Nee 
sine causa in quaestione est quis primus tantum bonum in- 
veneritt Scipio Metellus, vir Consularis, an M. Seius eadem 
aetate eques Romanus. 

' Gallinis. Cf. iii, 9, 2. 



I. 



3o6 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

from I St February or ist March to the summer 
solstice. Coupling generally takes place in the 
water, for which purpose they are driven i into a 
river or a pond. A goose does not lay more than 
three times in the year. They must each have a pen 
made in which to lay their eggs, two and a half feet 
square, which must be strewn with straw. You must 
put some mark on their eggs, as they do not hatch 
those of other geese. As a rule nine or eleven are 
put under the hen-bird to be hatched, if less, five, 
if more, fifteen. Hatching takes thirty days; when 
the weather^ is comparatively mild, twenty-five. 

^ Iniguntur. Scaliger's emendation for the inunguentur of 
the Archetype. Schneider supports the reading merguntur from 
" the nature ofthings," and from Aristotle (H. A., vi, 2): otx^«f 
6x(v9tvTfg KaTaKo\vfi(3u)(Ti. 

Columella (viii, 14, 4) : Ineunt autem non . . . insistentes 
humi: nam fere injlumine aut piscinis idfaciunt. 

^ Tempestatihus. This word seems to have strayed from its 
place. I would read : Incuhat dies triginfa, tempestatihus tepi- 
diorihus xxv,^^ for it is much to be doubted if tempestatihus 
can, unquaHfied, mean "in bad weather," or even "in stormy 
weather," and, supposing the word to have that meaning 
here, then it is unsuited to tepidiorihus. The Geoponica (xiv, 
22) say: " Hatching takes generally twenty-nine days, in cold 
weather thirty." Columella (viii, 14, 7) has: triginta diehus 
opus est cum sunt frigora, nam tepidis xxv satis est, " cf. Pliny 
(x, 59): Incuhant tantum tricenis diehus^ si veto tepidiores 
sint xxVy which supports the proposed change. 

In the chapter quoted above Pliny gives many interesting 
facts about geese, e.g., "the first thing contracted for by the 
censors is the food of the sacred geese. Geese walk all the 
way from Brittany to Rome. White ones provide a second 
source of income in the shape of down, the best of which 



Ill] OF GEESE 307 

4 When a goose has brought off her chicks, they are 
left with the mother for the first five days. After- 
wards every day when it is fine they are taken to the 
meadows and also to ponds or marshes, and pens 
are made for them above or under the ground, where 
not more than twenty chickens at a time are put; 
care being taken that the floors of these chambers 
are not damp, that they are provided with a soft bed 
of straw or something else, and that weasels cannot 
get at the chickens or any other animals harm them. 

5 Geese are fed in damp places, and for their food a 
crop is sown ' on which the farmer may make some 
profit [apart from these birds] while [especially] for 
them is sown the herb called seris (endive), for 
even when dried up, if it is moistened with water it 
grows green again. The leaves are plucked off and 
given to the geese, as there is danger, if you drive 
them to where it is growing, that they will ruin it by 
trampling it under foot, or themselves die of a sur- 
feit — for they are gluttons by nature. And so you 
must restrain them, for often when feeding if they 
have got hold of a root they want to pull out of 

comes from Germany where the geese are smallish and are 
called gatiBoe. This down is worth five denarii (3J. 3^.) a 
pound. And so luxurious have we become that not even men 
can do without it under their necks," etc. 

* Serunt. Varro is here even more elliptical than himself; 
but the meaning of the passage is fixed by Columella (vlii, 14, 
2): "A marshy but at the same time grassy piece of land 
should be assigned them, and various crops should, be sown 
such as vetch, trefoil, and fenugreek, but especially a variety 
of endive called by the Greeks okpi^. 



3o8 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

the ground, they break their necks.' For this part 
of them is very weak, as the head is soft. If you 
have not this kind of grass, give them barley or 
some other grain. When there is green fodder you 
should give it in the manner prescribed for seris. 

6 If they are sitting let them have barley steeped in 
water. The goslings just hatched are served for two 
days with barley meal or barley, for the next three 
with cress chopped up fine and mixed with water 
and then put into some kind of vessel. And when 
they have been shut up in their pens or under-ground 
chambers — twenty together, as I said — they are given 
barley meal or green fodder or some tender grass 

7 chopped up. For fattening, goslings are chosen 
about six months^ old. They are shut up in the 
fattening house, where their food is barley meal 
and fine flour ' steeped in water, of which they have 

^ Ahrumpunt collum. This statement is repeated by Colu- 
mella (viii, 14, 8) and by Pliny (x, 59) and the conclusion is not 
unnatural, for a goose when struggling with a tough root 
certainly looks as though It would break its neck ! 

^ Sesquimensem. As the reading of the Archetype was cir- 
citer sex qui mense qui sunt nata, and as no one would think 
of fattening goslings of \^ months old, Keil's emendation, 
ciixiter sex menses qui sunt nati, seems fairly certain, despite 
the fact that Columella (viii, 14, 10) gives four months as the 
best age at which to begin fattening. 

^ Pollinem. Csito {i^^y, ())h3iS pollifiem polentae. Pollen was 
the fine dust produced as the grain was ground. Cf. Colu- 
mella (viii, 14, 11): "These birds are easy to fatten, for 
they need nothing but barley meal and fine flour three times 
a day provided always that they have plenty to drink and 
are not allowed to stray," and the Geoponica (xiv, 22): 



Ill] OF DUCKS 309 

as much as they can eat, three times a day. Immedi- 
ately after a meal they are allowed to drink copiously. 
Thus treated, they become fat in about two months. 
After every meal the place should be cleansed, for 
they like a clean place, though they themselves 
never leave a place clean where they have been. 



CHAPTER XI 

OF DUCKS 

I Those who intend to keep flocks of ducks and to 
set up a nessotrophion (duck-nursery)^ should in 

*' They eat three times a day and at midnight, and are great 
drinkers. " 

' Nessotrophion {vriaaoTpo(puov). This Is described in detail 
and with delightful clearness by Columella (viii, 15): a level 
piece of ground was chosen and enclosed by a wall fifteen feet 
high. The roof was of lattice work or nets with wide meshes. 
The wall was coated with smooth plaster to prevent pole-cat 
or ferret from getting in, and in the middle of the duck-house 
,a pond was dug two feet deep, the margin of which was 
made of cement {signino, ' ' a plaster composed of powdered 
tiles mixed with mortar) and descended in a gentle slope to 
the water. The pond had a stone bottom covering two-thirds 
of its area, to prevent weeds rising to the surface ; the centre 
was uncovered and planted with the Egyptian bean and other 
green water plants. For twenty feet all round the pond the 
banks were clothed with grass, and beyond this piece of 
ground was the wall in which were the nesting-places, each a 
foot square. These were covered by bushes of box or myrtle, 
planted between them, which bushes did not overtop the 



3IO VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

the first place choose a marshy place, if that be 
possible, as ducks prefer such a one to any other. 
Failing that, the best place is where there is a 
natural pool or pond, or an artificial tank, to which 

2 they can go down by steps. The enclosure where 
they live should have a wall as much as fifteen feet 
high, like that you saw at Seius's country-house, 
and it should have but one entrance. All round the 
wall on the inside is a wide ledge, on which close 
to the wall should be covered nesting-places, and in 
front of them the outer landing of the ducks — a level 
floor of cement made of broken pottery. In it there 
is a gutter running the whole length, where food is 
set for them, and into which water runs. For so 

3 they take their food. All the walls should be smoothly 
plastered to prevent pole-cats or other animals enter- 
ing to harm the birds, and the whole enclosure is 
covered over by a net with wide meshes, to prevent 
a hawk from flying in, or a duck from flying out. 
The food given them is wheat, barley, or grape-refuse 
— sometimes also river cray-fish ^ and certain other 

wall. A gutter was let into the ground and down It ran the 
birds' food mixed with water. 

^ Cammari. The precise meaning of this word is not 
known, but it seems to have meant a sort of crab. That it 
was red when cooked and was a cheap and little esteemed 
food appears from Martial (ii, 43, 11) : 

Immodici tihijlava tegunt chrysendeta mulli 
Concolor in nostra^ cammare lana rubes. 

Columella (viil, 15, 6), a propos of the feeding of ducks, says : 
Ubi copia est, etiam glans ac vinacea praebeniur. Aquatilis 



Ill] OF DUCKS 311 

aquatic animals of the same kind. Abundance of 
water must flow into the ponds in the enclosure so 
4 that it may be always fresh. There are also other 
species not unlike ducks, such as teal and moor-hens 
and partridges/ which, as Archelaus writes, conceive 
on hearing the voice of the male bird. These, though 
they are not fattened as are ducks and geese because 
of their fertility or good flavour, do yet become fat 
if fed in the same way. This is what I have to say 
about what in my opinion belongs to the first act of 
farm-yard feeding. 

autem tihi si sitfacultas^ datur cammarus et rivalis alecula^ vel 
si qua sunt incrementi parvi Jiuviorum animalia. Plutarch 
(Quaest. Nat., towards the end) says that river crabs are 
good for sows suffering from headache! ai U Siiq kiri roXg 
iroTafiioic KopKivoig (ftepovraif jioijOovvTai yap ItjOiovaai Trpbg K6<pa\a\~ 
yiav. 

The Geoponica (xiv, 23) mention as food for ducks : * * Wheat, 
millet, barley, grape refuse, and occasionally locusts or prawns 
or any other similar animals, found in lakes or rivers, which 
they are accustomed to eat." 

• Perdices. In Martial's delightful description of a Roman 
farm (iii, 58) occur nearly all the birds mentioned by Varro : 

Vagaiur omnis iurba sordidae chortis 

Argutus anser £emmetgue pavones 
Nomenque debet quae rubentibus pinnis (the flamingo) 

El picta perdix Numidicaeque,^//a/lfl^ 
Et impiorum phasiana Colchorum 

Rhodias superbi feminas premunt galli 
Sonantque turres plausibus columbarum 
Gemit hinc palumbus, inde cereus turtur, etc. 

The perdix in the text is probably the red-legged partridge — 
the picta perdix of Martial. 



312 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

CHAPTER XII 

OF WARRENS 

1 Meanwhile Appius returned, and after mutual in- 
quiries as to what had been done and said, he spoke 
on as follows : We now come to the second ^ act, 
to what is generally an appendage of the farm-house, 
and is still called by its ancient name of hare-warren 
{leporarium)^ from a part only of the uses to which 
the thing is put. For, in fact, not only hares are 
enclosed in it, in a wood, as w^as in former times the 
case with the mere paddock an acre or two in size 
— but there are many acres, and stags or roes, as well 
as hares. It is said that Quintus Fulvius Lippinus^ 
has forty iugera (twenty-six acres) enclosed in the 
country about Tarquinii, in which are confined not 
only the animals I have mentioned, but wild sheep 
as well ! The same man has a park even bigger 
than this near Statona, and such parks are to be 

2 found in other districts. In Transalpine Gaul, more- 

^ Actus secundi. Cf. lii, 3, i : Eius disciplinae genera sunt 
tria, ornithones, leporaria, piscinae. 

^ Q. F. Lippinus. Cf. Pliny (viii, 52): "The first of the 
Romans to make preserves for these and other creatures of 
the woods was Fulvius Lippinus, who had a park for them 
near Tarquinii. He was soon imitated by L. Lucullus and 
Q. Hortensius." And again (ix, 56) : " Fulvius Lippinus made 
an enclosure for snails near Tarquinii a little before the civil 
war between Pompey and Caesar." 



Ill] OF WARRENS 313 

over, T. Pompeius^ has a great preserve for game, 
which contains within its bounds a space of about 
4,000 paces square (about 9,000 acres). In the same 
enclosure it is usual to have places set apart for 
snails and beehives, and also casks to hold dormice. 
However, the keeping, breeding, and feeding of all 
these animals, bees excepted, present no difficulty, 

3 for everyone must know that, in the case of a hare- 
warren, the boundary walls should have a coating 
of plaster and should be high — the first to prevent 
weasel, marten, or other animal from getting in, 
the second to make it impossible for a wolf to jump 
over — and that there should be places of concealment 
where hares may lie hid during the day in the brush- 
wood and grass, and trees with spreading branches 

4 to foil the efforts of the eagle. Everyone knows, 
too, that if you put in but a few hares of both sexes, 
the warren will swarm with them in a short time, 
so prolific is this quadruped. Why, if you put in 
no more than four, the place will shortly be full of 
them. For indeed, often when a litter has not long 
been bom, they are found to have others^ inside 

' T, Pompeius. Valerius Maximus (vii, 8, 4) mentions a 
Pompeius Beginus, vir transalpinae regionis. Was he a large 
farmer, one wonders, who gave his name to the fig, pear, 
grape, and cabbage called Pompeian? Cf. Pliny, xv, 15, 18; 
xix, 8. 

' In venire. Varron rappelle laficonditi du lih)re qui, si cet 
animal est mis it Pabride ses ennemis dans un pare, est vraiment 
itonnante. II connaissait ce fait curieux de V organisation de eel 
animal dont la femelle revolt le mdle et cofi^oit nu^me quand elle 
est dijh pleine: Aussi a-t^lle, dit BuJJon (vol. vii, 105), en 



314 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

them. Thus Archelaus writes, that any one wishing 
to know the age of a hare should look at the orifices ^ 
provided by Nature, as some have certainly more 
5 than others. There is also the recent fashion, now 
general, of fattening them — by taking them from 
the warren, shutting them up in cages, and fatten- 
ing^ them in confinement. 

Now of these creatures there are roughly three ^ 
varieties: the first, our Italian hare, which has short 
front legs and long hind ones, the upper part of the 
body dark, the stomach white, and the ears long. 
This hare is said to conceive even when pregnant. 

quelque sorte deux matrices distinctes, siparies^ et qui peuvent 
agir indSpendamment Tune de V autre ; en sorte que les femelles 
dans cette espece peuvent concevoir et accoucher en diffirents 
temps par chacune de ces matrices (Durand de la Malle, loc. 

cit-y 515). 

^ Foramina naturae. This Is explained by Pliny (viii, 55) : 
A rchelaus auctor est quot sint corporis cavemae ad excrementa 
leporiy totidem esse annos aetatis. Varius certe numerus reper- 
itur. Idem, utramque vim singulis inesse, ac sine m,are aeque 
gignere. 

^ Saginarent Macrobius (iii, 9, end), who quotes Varro, 
gives this and the fattening of snails as instances to prove 
that his own age was much less luxurious than Varro's, for 
In Macroblus's time (a.d. 400) both these practices were un- 
known. 

Instead of the reading of the Archetype saginarent pleraque^ 
Macrobius found saginarentur, and Instead of hos, hoc. Kell 
suggests pleriqucy which I have translated. 

^ THa genera. Xenophon (Cynegetlcus, c. 5) distinguishes 
two varieties : (i) the big kind the colour of a half ripe olive, 
having a good deal of white on the forehead, (2) the smaller 
kind reddish yellow, with very little white about it. 



Ill] OF WARRENS 315 

In Transalpine Gaul and Macedonia they are very 

6 large, in Spain and Italy of but moderate size. There 
is a second variety which is found in Gaul near the 
Alps' which differs from the former only in being 
white all over. These do not often reach Rome. A 
third variety is found in Spain, which resembles in 
some measure our Italian hare, but it stands low. 
This is called a cuniculus* (coney, rabbit). L. Aelius 
thought that the hare {lepus) derived its name from 
its swiftness, as it was light-footed {levipes), I, how- 
ever, believe that it comes from the ancient Greek 
word, for the Aeolians^ used to call a hare h£7ropig. 
Rabbits {cuniculi) are so called because they make 
burrows {cuniculi) underground in the fields, to hide 

7 themselves in. One should have, if it is possible, 

^ Ad Alpis. Cf. Pliny (viil, 55). " There are several varieties 
of hares. On the Alps they are white and are thought to feed 
on the snow in the winter months — they certainly turn reddish 
cllow as the snow melts." 

■' Cuniculus. Pliny {Joe. cit.) speaks of their enormous 
fecundity. They over-ran Majorca and Minorca to such an 
extent that the inhabitants asked Augustus for military aid 
against them. It is interesting to find from the same chapter 
that rabbits were hunted with the help of tame ferrets {viverrae) 
just as now. 

' Aeolis. Cf. iii, i, 6: Et in Graecia Aeolis Boeoti (note). 
For \iiropiv compare Gellius's (i, 18) quotation from Varro's 
Rcrum Divinarum : Non enim leporem dicimus ut ait Aelius 
quod est levipes sed quod est vocabulum anticum graecum. And 
Varro (L. L., v, 20, beginning): Lepus quod Siculis {Siculil) 
quidam Graeci dicunt XiTrnpiv, a Roma quod orti Siculi hinc 
illuc tulere et hie reliquerunt id nomen. Volpes ut Aelius dicebat 
quod volai pedibus. 



3i6 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

all these kinds in a warren. You, at any rate, Varro, 
have I think two, for you were so many years in 
Spain ^ that I believe the rabbits there followed you 
here. 



CHAPTER XIII 

OF WILD BOARS AND OTHER QUADRUPEDS 

I As for wild boars, you know, Axius, that they can 
be kept in the warren, and that without much trouble' 
both those that have been caught and the tame ones 
which have been born there are commonly fattened 
for market ; for you yourself have seen on the estate 
near Tusculum, which Varro here bought from 
M. Papius Piso,- wild boars and roes meeting to 
feed at a fixed hour when a horn ^ was blown, while 
from an eminence (from the palaestra?*) acorns were 
poured out for the wild-boars, and vetches or some- 

^ In Hispania. This cannot allude to Varro's short and 
inglorious campaign against Caesar in Spain, for that hap- 
pened in 49 B.C., and, as has been shown, these conversations 
are represented as having taken place in 54 B.C. 

"^ Piso. Cf. note on iii, 3, 8. 

' Ad bucinam. Cf. ii, 4, 20: Suhulcus debet consuefacere 
omnia ut faciant ad bucinam. Primo cum, incluserunt, cum 
bucinatum est, aperiunt ut exire possint in eum locuin ubi 
hordeum fusum in Jongitudine. . . . Ideo ad bucinam convenire 
dicuntur, ut silvestri loco dispersi ne dispereant. 

^ E palaestra. The meaning of this is obscure, and many 
unhappy emendations have been proposed. Perhaps in pal- 
aestra was originally written, for Varro may have seen some 



Ill] WILD BOARS 317 

2 thing else for the roes. Yes, said Axius, and when 
I was at O. Hortensius's near Laurentum I saw the 
same thing done more in the Thracian ' fashion, for 
there was a wood there of more than fifty iugera 
(thirty-three acres) according to Hortensius, sur- 
rounded by a wall, and this enclosure he did not 
call a hare warren, but a theriotrophion (place for 
feeding animals). There, on an eminence on which 
a dining-table and couches were set we dined, and 

3 our host summoned Orpheus ' to appear. He came, 

fanciful resemblance between a wrestling school and the place 
where the boars jostled one another as they made for their 
food. A palaestrita would make excellent sense "by their 
trainer," and might be supported by Martial (iii, 82) : Partitur 
apri glandulas palaestrita. A palaestrita is mentioned also 
in Martial's account of a Roman farmhouse (iii, 58). The 
"trainer" would be the subulcus of ii, 4, 20, who had to 
"train them to do everything in obedience to the sound of 
the horn." 

' Op^Kuiiii. Keil's certain emendation for the magis tragicos 
of the Archetype. The attendant took the part of the Thracian 
Orpheus whose music had power to tame wild animals. Cf. 
Horace (A. P., 391): 

Stives tres homines sacer interprcsque Deorum 
Caedibus et victufoedo deterruil Orpheus: 
Dictus ob hoc lenire tigres rabidosque leones. 

^ Orpheus . . . cum stola. In Rome the stola was of course 
the dress of respectable Roman matrons. The Greek word 
rroXi7, however, applies to almost any garment, even to the 
lion's skin worn by Hercules (cf. Eurip. H. F. 465) iv <TTo\y, 
Onp^i — but generally means a robe. The glorious statue of 
the Apollo (Orphcus's father) Citharoedus in the Vatican shows 
liim wearing the long Ionian stola, and with a cithara in his 
hand. 



3i8 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

clad in a stola^ and on the order to sing to his 
cithara blew a blast on the horn, whereat a host of 
stags, wild boars, and other quadrupeds poured 
round us, making as fine a show, I thought, as when 
the Aediles give us a hunt without African ^ beasts 
in the Circus Maximus. 



CHAPTER XIV 

OF SNAILS 

1 Said Axius, Your part, my friend Merula, has been 
made lighter by Appius. The second act, which 
concerned hunting, has been quickly gone through, 
and as for what remains — snails and dormice — I am 
not anxious to hear about them, as the subject can 
present no great difficulty. More than you think, 
Axius my dear fellow, said Appius, for you have to 
find a suitable place for your snail-beds, and it must 
be open to the sky and entirely surrounded by water, 
lest when you put snails in it to breed, you find not 
only the children gone, but the mothers as well. 
You must, I repeat, keep them confined by means 
of water, or else you will have to get a ** slave- 
catcher."^ 

2 The best spot is one visited by dew and not baked 

' Africanis bestiis, i.e., panthers. Cf. Pliny, viii, 17. 

' Fug^ltivarius. A mild but thoroughly characteristic joke 
of Varro's. T\vq> fugitivarius was the man hired to track and 
bring back a runaway {fugitivus) slave. 



Ill] OF SNAILS 319 

by the sun. If there is none such provided by nature 
— which is usually the case in a sunny place — and 
you do not chance to have a shady spot in which 
to make your snail-bed, at the foot of mountain 
rocks, for instance, the base of which is bathed by 
a lake or streams, you will have to make a dewy 
place artificially. This is done by getting a hose-pipe 
with small teats attached to it which squirt water on 
to some stone near by, so that the water is splashed 
in all directions. 
3 Snails need little food and no one to give it to 
them ; they discover it, as they crawl about, on the 
floor of the enclosure, and even find it unless they 
are stopped by a stream, by climbing the upright 
walls. ' And, indeed, while they are on the huckster's 
stall they manage to keep alive for a long time by 
chewing' the cud, with the help of a few bay leaves 
thrown amongst them and a sprinkling of bran. 

^ Parietes stantes invenit. Keil paraphrases sed etiam stantes 
parietes cibi inveniendi causa ascendunt^ which is no doubt the 
meaning. But how get this from the Latin? Per parietes is 
plausible. 

^ Ruminantes. The Archetype has ex gruminantes ad pro- 
palam. Gesner reads ex se ruminantes ad propolam. Keil dis- 
liking ex se writes simply ruminantes, not noticing, however, 
that this reading has the support of one MS. If the text be 
right, ad must here have the sense of apud. Propola = 7r^>o7rwX»;t. 
It is curious that in all the cases quoted by Nonius of the use 
of ruminor by Varro, the metaphorical sense *' to ponder over," 
"to remember," is alone found, e.g., Ruminari dictum in 
memoriam revocare. Varro, Tanaquil : Non modo absens de te 
fuidquam segnius cogitabit sed etiam rumimibitur Autnanitatem. 



320 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

And so the cook as a rule does not know whether 
they are alive or dead when he is cooking them. 

4 There are several varieties of snails: the small 
white ones brought from near Reate, the big ones 
from Illyricum, and those of middle size which come 
from Africa. Not but what they differ in these places 
both in distribution and size; for instance, very big 
snails come from Africa, called Solitannae^ which 
are so big that eighty quadrantes ' (three gallons) 
can be put into their shells. And similarly in other 
countries snails though of the same kind differ in 

5 size from one another. When breeding they lay an 
incalculable number of young which are very small 
and have a soft shell that hardens as time goes on. 
When large islands are made in the enclosures, they 
(the snails) bring you a big haul of pence. They 
are, I may add, fattened usually in the following 
way. A jar for them to feed in having holes in it is 
lined with a mixture of sapa and spelt. It must 
have these holes that air may get in. The snail is 
certainly " very tenacious of life. 

^ LXXX qvudrantes. Cf. Pliny, ix, 56: Solitannae quihus 
nohilitas. Quin et saginam earum commentus est sapa etfarre 
aliisque generilms ut cochleae quoque altiles ganeam implerent: 
cuius artis gloria in earn magnitudinem perductae sint utoctoginta 
quadrantis caperent singularum calices. Auctor est M. Varro. 

"' Enim seems hardly the particle required here. One would 
have expected tamen, as Varro's words imply a doubt as to 
whether the snails would die even if there were no holes. In 
Livy, xxiii, 45 (end) enim has almost this sense : Romam vos 
expugnaturos si quis duceret, fortes lingua iactahatis ; enim nunc 
minor res est, etc. 



Ill] OF DORMICE 321 



CHAPTER XV 

OF DORMICE 

1 The place where dormice are kept is of a different 
kind, as it is an enclosure bounded not by water, 
but by a wall the whole of which is faced on the 
inside with smooth stone or plaster, to prevent the 
dormouse from crawling out. In it should be small 
acorn-bearing^ trees. When these are not bearing, 
acorns and chestnuts should be thrown inside the 

2 wall for the dormice to eat their fill. Fairly wide holes 
are to be made for them in which they can bring forth 
their young. There should not be much water, as 
they take but little of it, and like a dry place. They 
are fattened in jars, which many people keep inside 
the villa. These jars made by the potter differ 
greatly in their construction from others, as grooves 
(paths) are made in their sides, and a hollow in 
which to place food. Into this jar are put acorns, 
walnuts, or chestnuts. A lid is put on the jars, and 
in the darkness the dormice grow fat." 

1 Quae ferant glandem. Pliny (xvl, 6) mentions beech nuts 
{Jagiglans) in this connection : Fagi glans murihus gratissima 
est . . . glires quoque saginat^ expedit et turdis, so that the 
word is probably not used here by Varro in the special sense 
as given by Pliny {loc. cit.) : glandem, quae proprie intelJegitur, 
ferunt rohur, quercuSy esculus, cerrus, ilex suher. 

^ Saginantur. Cf. Pliny (viii, 57) : Semiferum et ipsum 
animal, cui vivaria in doliis idem qui apris (Fulvlus Lippinus) 
instituit. Qua in re notatum non congregari nisi populares 

Y 



322 



VARRO ON FARMING 



[bk. 



CHAPTER XVI 



OF BEES AND APIARIES 

1 And so, said Appius, in the matter of farmyard 
feeding we come to the third act, which is about 
fishponds. Third act be hanged! said Axius, do 
you suppose, because you were so very economical 
when a young man as not to drink wine and honey 
at home, that we are going to neglect honey? Axius 

2 speaks the truth, said he, turning to us, for I was 
left with scanty means, and two brothers and two 
sisters ^ to keep. One of the latter ^ I married with- 
out a portion to LucuUus, and it was only when he 

eiusdem silvae: et si inisceantur alienigenae, amne vel monte 
discreti, interire dimicando. Genitoris suos fessos senecta alunt 
insigni pietate. . . . InMoesia silva Italiae — non nisi in parte — 
reperiuniur hi glires. Albertus Magnus (quoted by Schneider) 
gives an excellent description of the dormouse, and states that 
in his time {circa 1 250) they were fattened in large numbers by 
the rustics of Bohemia and Carinthia. 

^ Duabus sororihus. Schneider points out that Appius had 
three sisters. Probably one of these was married in the life- 
time of her father. The sister married to Lucullus was said 
by Cicero to have been treated with as little respect as was 
the Bona Dea by her brother P. Clodius whom Cicero (Pro 
Dom. 34) calls on that account Jove: Sed vide ne tu te deheas 
/ovem dicere quod tu iure eandem sororem et uxorem appellare 
possis. 

^ Quarum. In view of the anacoluthon Scaliger conjectured 
earum, GQssner duarum. Neither is necessary, for, as it has 
been shown, Varro frequently has such anacolutha. 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 323 

first gave up an inheritance^ in my favour that 
I myself began to drink mulsum at my house, 
though it was given almost every day on the occasion 
3 of a banquet" to all. Besides it has been more my ^ 
business than yours to know the habits of these 
winged creatures, to whom Nature has given the 
greatest talent and skill. And so as a proof that I 
have a better knowledge of them than you, let me 
tell you about their amazing and untaught ability. 
Merula must then relate to us, as before, the usual 
practice ^ adopted by melitturgoe (as those who keep 
apiaries are called). 

' Hereditate me cessa for concessa. Keil seems to think 
that Appius was Lucullus's heir, cum hereditatem Luculli accep- 
isset Is not the meaning rather that Lucullus waived a prior 
claim to an inheritance? Cf. Cicero (Pro Flacc, 36) : Communem 
hereditatem quae aequaliter ad utrumque venisset, concessit 
adulescenti. Me is for mihi. Cf Festus, '■'' me''"' pro '''■ mihV 
dicebant antiqui, who quotes from Lucilius, quae me impendet. 
Vae te is found in Plautus. Lindsay, however (Lat. Lang, 
p. 422), thinks these are old uses of the accusative. Quintilian 
(i, 5) seems to say that mehe was an ancient form of mihi^ but 
the reading is doubtful. The evidence for the use of me for mihi 
is certainly slender. 

■* In convivio . . . daretur. The reading of the Archetype 
was darem. If this be kept the meaning is that Appius did 
not drink mulsum himself, though he gave it all the same to 
all his guests when there was a dinner party, and that there 
was one nearly every day at his house. And this reading seems 
to present fewer difficulties than Keil's emendation. 

' Meum, an allusion to the name "Appius" connected by 
Varro with apis. 

* Historicos, loropuuSz. In ii, i, 2, historicon has precisely 
the meaning of the English word "historical," for Varro 



324 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

4 In the first place bees are born, some from bees, 
some from the rotten carcase of an ox.^ Thus, 
Archelaus^ in an epigram calls them ^oog (pOi/jimg 
TTZTT'havT^fji.sva TEKvay *'the roaming children of a dead 

cow," and he also writes: 'Itt'^uv fxh a-pJKEg yevea, yLQ(T%m 

tz ixknacraiy *' Wasps Spring from horses and from 
calves come bees." 

Bees are not solitary creatures like eagles, but 
gregarious as are men. And though jack-daws also 
resemble men in this, yet it is not the same thing, 
for bees combine to work and build, which is not 
the case with jack-daws; bees have method and 

then proceeds to give a sketch of the history of his subject. 
Here historicos=*'\n descriptive detail" or something of the 
kind. 

* Ex huhulo corpore. The Geoponica (xv, 2) make Demo- 
critus and Varro their authorities for the following method by 
which bees may be produced from a bull. ** Build a house fif- 
teen feet in every dimension, having one door and four windows 
— one in each side. Into this house put a bull of thirty months, 
fleshy and very fat, which is beaten to death with clubs by a 
gang of young men who must bruise the flesh and break the 
bones without drawing blood. They must then turn the bull 
on to its back, cover it with thyme, and leave the house. The 
door and windows are then to be blocked up with thick mud 
so that no air can get in. In the third week after this, light 
and fresh air are to be admitted by throwing open the door 
and all the windows. Then when the dead matter begins to 
be alive the windows and door must be blocked as before. On 
the eleventh day after open again and you will find the house 
filled with bees hanging together in bunches, and of the bull 
nothing left but the horns, bones and hair." Cf. Vergil, Georg., 
iv, 550-8. 

- Archelaus. Cf. note on ii, 3, 5. 



1 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 325 

science, and from them we learn to work, to build, 

5 and to store up food, for those three things are their 
concern: namely, food, house, and work; nor is 
the wax the same thing as the food, the honey, or 
the house. Each cell in the honey-comb has, as you 
know, six angles, as many angles as the bee has 
feet, and geometers prove that when regular hexa- 
gons are used to fill a circular figure the largest 
possible amount of its space is thus utilized. They 
feed outside in the fields, and toil inside the hive, 
fashioning the sweet substance that gods and men 
alike love — for the honey-comb reaches the altar, 
and honey is served both at the beginning of a 

6 dinner-party and for the second ^ course. They have 
states like ours, with king and government and 
organized society. They are attracted by nothing 
unclean, and so none of them ever alights on a 
space that is dirty or evil-smelling, or even scented 
with fragrant oils, and so if any goes near them 
** oiled"'" they sting him instead of licking him as 
flies do. Thus they are never seen, like flies, on 
flesh ' or blood or fat, and so settle only on things 

^ In secundam mensam. Cf. Pliny, xix, 8 (towards the end) : 
Candidum papaver cuius semen tostum in secunda mensa cum 
melle apud antiques dabatur. There was honey, too, In the 
promulsis. 

^ Unctus. Cf. Aristotle, ix, 40. The use ofunguents was very 
common in the case of wealthy Romans. They bathed before 
dinner, and were then anointed with sweet-smelling oils, so that 
unctus sometimes is equivalent to our **in evening, dress." 

' Cf. Aristotle, ix, 40, of which chapter Varro makes large 
use, as do Columella (bk. ix) and Pliny (bk. xi). 



326 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

7 that have a sweet savour. It is a most harmless ^ 
creature, spoiling no man's work by pulling it to 
pieces, brave enough to resist any who should try 
to harm its own, yet conscious of its own weakness. 
With justice are they called the * ' birds of the Muses, " 
for if ever they are scattered,^ they are quickly^ 
brought together again by the clashing of cymbals 
or the clapping of hands, and as men have given to 
these deities Helicon and Olympus, so to the bees 
Nature has given the wild and flower-clad mountains. 

8 They follow their beloved king wherever he goes; 
if he is weary they support him; if he cannot fly, 
eager to save him, they bear him up on their 
shoulders. Never idle themselves, they hate idlers. 
And so they attack the drones, and drive them out 
from the hive, since the latter give no help in the 
work and eat up the honey, and a whole crowd of 
drones crying out in terror is often pursued by a 
few^ bees. Outside the entrance of the hive they 
block up all apertures through which the wind gets 
to the combs with a substance called by the Greeks 

^ Minime malejica. Cf. Geoponica, xv, 3 : *' It does not spoil 
the work of others and most stoutly resists those who try to 
spoil its own ; yet conscious of its weakness it makes the en- 
trances to its home narrow and winding." 

^ Displicatae. Gessner conjectures dispalatae. Dissipatae is 
plausible. 

' Numero occurs several times in Plautus with the meaning 
oi cito. Cf. Festus, adverhum. 

^ Paucae. Pliny (xi, 11) would seem to have found here 
paucoSy as he says : Cum mella coeperunt maturescere abigunt 
eos, multaeque singulos aggressae trucidant. 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 327 

^erithace.^ They all live as in an army, sleeping 
and working in regular and equal turns, and they 
send out what we may call colonies, and the leaders 
[ofthese colonies] get certain things done to the sound 
of their voice, imitating as it were the trumpet used 
for an army. And this happens when they have 
signals for peace or war which they make to one 

10 another. But, Merula, I am afraid our friend Axius 
here is dying with impatience as he listens to these 
details of natural history, since I have said nothing 
about the profit, and so in the race I hand on the 
torch ^ to you. 

So Merula began : About the profit, I have that 

^ Erithace. Pliny (xi, 7) devotes a chapter to the explanation 
of this and other special terms: Privia fundamenta comxnosin 
vacant periti, secunda pissoceron, tertia propolln inter coria 
cerasque magni ad niedicamina usus. ContTnosis est crusta prima 
saporis amari. Pissoceros super earn venit, picatus modo sed 
dilutior. . . . Propolis crassioris iam materiae, additis florihus — 
Tiondum tamen cera, sed favorum stabilimentum qua omnes fri- 
goris aut iniuriae aditus obstruuntur odore et ipsa etiamnum 
gravi. . . . Praeter haec convehitur erithace quam aliqui Sanda- 
racham, alii cerinthum vocant. Hie erit apum dum operantur 
cibus qui ipse invenitur in favorum inanitatibus sepositus, et ipse 
amari saporis. Most of this is from Aristotle, ix, 40, but the 
erithace oi Pliny is not that of Varro, which corresponds to the 
/itrvf of Aristotle. Varro (§ 23) describes erithace as that quo 
favos extremes inter se conglutinant. 

''■ Lampada. A metaphor taken from the torch race (\a/iTra$i]- 
Spofiia) at Athens, used -by Plato and Lucretius. Cf. the familiar 
line of the latter : 

Et quasi cursores vitai lampada tradunt. 
For tibe cf. note on iii, 7, 11. 



328 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

to say which will perhaps please you, Axius. It is 
supported not only by Seius, who lets his bee-hives at 
a yearly rent of 5,000 pounds' weight of honey, but 
also by our friend Varro here, whom I have heard 
tell the following story. There were two brothers 
named Veianius, who served under him in Spain/ 
They came from near Falerii, and were then well- 
to-do, though their father had left them only a small 
farmstead and a bit of land — certainly not more than 
an acre. They set up bee-hives all round the build- 
ing, kept a garden, and sowed all the rest (of their 
land) with thyme and cytisus and apiastrum — a 
plant called by some meliphyllon (honey-leaf), 
by others melissophyllon (bee-leaf), and by some 
I again melittaena,'^ Well, these brothers used never 
to make less out of the honey — taking a very reason- 
able estimate — than 10,000 sesterces ' (;£^8o) a year, 

^ In Hispania. It would seem from this passage and from 
iii, 12, 7, that Varro had held some command in Spain before 
54 B.C., the date of these conversations, and consequently before 
his inglorious campaign in the great civil war. 

■^ Melittaenam. An emendation of Keil's for the reading of 
the Archetype mellineni^ in spite of the support which the 
latter gets from Philargyrius (ad Georg. , iv, 63) : MelisphyUa 
herba est quam ut ait Varro, alii apiastrum alii melinem appel- 
lant. Columella (ix, 9, 8) has melissophylli vel apiastri. 

^ Sestertia. Ursinus suggests sestertium, and certainly this 
must be the meaning here and iii, 6, 6, and iii, 17, 3. I can 
find no parallel in any other author of sestertia used thus, and 
suspect the text in each case, as the corruption is easily ex- 
plicable. In ii, I, 14, we find asinus venierit sestertiis milibus 
sexaginta, i. e. , ior sesterces — 60, ooo. Sestertium, the neuter noun, 
means, of course, 1,000 sesterces, but could have no place here. 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 329 

but, as they said, they were always willing to wait, 
so as to interview the buyer at a favourable moment, 
and were in no hurry to sell if the time were bad. 
Well then, said Axius, tell me where and how to 
make a bee-house, that I may reap large profits. 
12 Merula answered. You must set up your bee-hives 
in this way — others call them melittotrophia 
(places for feeding bees), while the same things are 
called by some people mellaria. — In the first place 
they should be if possible close to the farm-building, 
in a place where there are no echoes,^ for this noise, 
it is thought, puts them to flight.^ The air should 
be temperate, not blazing hot in summer, nor un- 
sunned in winter; the hives should preferably face 
the place where the sun rises in winter, and should 
have in their neighbourhood plenty of food and pure 

' Imagines. Cf. Columella, ix, 5, 6: Nee minus vitentur 
cavae rupis aut vallis argutiae quas Graeci r)xovq vacant, and 
Pliny, xi, 19 : Inimica est et echo resultanti sono qui pavidas 
altemos pulsat sono. For imago \x\ this sense cf. Horace, Odes, 
i, 12,4: 

Quern deum cuius recinit iocosa 
Nomen imago. 

* Fugae procerum. This is, of course, unintelligible. Scallger 
gives as **a certain emendation " protelum, and quotes Varro 
(De liberis educandis) : Remotissimum cut discetidum formidoy 
nimius terror et omnis perturbatio animi: contra delectatio pro- 
telum ad discendum. Here protelum means "incitement." 
Ursinus and one MS. (Caesenas) have instead oi procerum, 
praeterea, while Triller suggests Porro caelum. None of these 
is satisfactory, but of the three emendations Scaliger'§ seems 
the best — if the passage which he quotes from Varro is genuine. 
Up to now I have been unable to trace it. 



330 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

13 water. If nature has not provided the proper food, 
the owner must sow such plants as are generally 
sought by bees, which are: roses, wild thyme, 
apiastrum (balm gentle), poppies, beans, lentils, 
peas, ocimuniy galingale,' lucerne, and especially 
cytisus, which is very good for them when they are 
unwell. Moreover it begins to flower with the 
vernal equinox, and goes on flowering until the 

14 second, the autumnal equinox. While, however, 
cytisus is excellent for their health, for honey- 
making thyme is the best. And this is the reason 
why the Sicilian honey bears the palm, for good 
thyme is found there in abundance. And so some 
people pound it in a mortar, add luke-warm water, 
and sprinkle over all the seed plots which have been 
sown for the bees. 

15 As for the situation : one near the farm-house is 
best chosen for this purpose : some men have even 
stationed the apiary for greater safety in the 
portico ^ itself of the house. Hives are made round ^ 

^ Cyperum. Pliny (xxi, 18) describes the plant and the uses 
made of it in medicine. 

^ In villae porticu. Cf. iii, 3, 5. 

^ Rutundas, supply alvos. Columella (ix, 6) follows Varro 
closely : " If the district produces cork trees in abundance there 
is no doubt that the most useful hives are made out of thin 
cork, as such hives are neither bitterly cold in winter nor 
stifling in summer ; fennel stalks also, as they resemble cork 
in nature, will do equally well ; if neither material is at hand 
wicker work may be used, failing- this, the wood of a tree 
hollowed out or cut into planks. The worst hives are those of 
earthenware, as they become furnaces in summer and ice- 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 331 

by some people and of osiers where these are to be 
found ; by others of wood or bark, or of a hollow tree 
or earthenware, while others make them rectangular 
of fennel stalks, and about three feet long and one 
foot broad, making them, however, of smaller 
dimensions in cases where there are too few bees to 
fill them, lest, being in a big empty space, the bees 
lose heart. All these constructions are called, from 
the nourishment (alimoniuni) which honey sup- 
plies, alvi (bellies), and when^ people constrict their 
waists, it is, I imagine, in imitation of the shape of 

6 the bees. Those hives which are made of withes are 
smeared inside and out with cow-dung, lest the bees 
be frightened away by their roughness. Hives are 
arranged on brackets projecting from the wall, in 
such a way that they do not shake, and do not 
touch one another when placed in a row; then, 

i with a space between, a second and third row is 
made below the first, and they say it is better to 

' have fewer rows rather than to add a fourth. In the 
middle of the hive small holes are made, right and 

houses in winter. Two kinds remain; one fashioned with 
dung, the other built of brick. The first was properly con- 
demned by Celsus owing to the danger of fire, the second 
had his approval though he did not hide the disadvantage of 
its not being portable. " 

' Quas^ etc. It is improbable that the hives were "wasp- 
waisted," so that quas must refer to alvos in the primary sense 
of "belly." Aristophanes (Plutus, 561) speaks of men being 
efriKttittCf and Festus says that such were called cinjifu/t: Cin- 
gulos appellabant homines qui in his locis ubi cingi solet satis 
sunt tenues. 



332 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

17 left, for the bees to go in by, and at the end ^ a lid is 
put on the hives so that the bee-keepers can get the 
honey out. The best hives are made of bark, the 
worst of earthenware, for the latter are most power- 
fully affected by cold in winter and heat in summer. 
The bee-keeper must inspect them in spring and 
autumn about three times a month, using moderate 
fumigations, and should cleanse the hive from dirt 

18 and expel any vermin. He should also see that 
there are not several kings in the same hive, as 
these do harm by reason of the quarrels they make. 
Some^ people assert, as there are three species 
of kings amongst bees — the black, the red, and the 
striped, or according to Menecrates'' two, the black 

^ jExtrema, i.e., at the back. Cf. Pliny, xxi, 14, Utilissimum 
operculum a tergo esse ambulatorium, sqq. 

^ Et quidam dicunt, etc. This sentence, vionstrum, horren- 
dum, informe^ ingens though it is, was probably thus written by 
Varro. The interminable parenthesis tria genera — nigrum^ and 
the general confusion and clumsiness of the whole period is 
characteristic of him at his worst. In this passage, moreover, 
he is translating Aristotle, and does not seem to have under- 
stood him, as he failed occasionally to understand Theophrastus 
in Book I. Aristotle (ix, 40) writes as follows : dai dk ysvri tuIv 
fieXiTTiHv ttXciw . . . dvo fitv I'lyffiovwVj 6 /xev /SfXriwv Trvppog, 6 de 
'f^Tfpog fieXag kuI TroiKiXwrepoQ . . . r) dk apiaTt} fiiKpd crpoyyvXr} Kui 
ttoikiXt}, oXXt] fiUKpa bfioia ry dvOprjvy. 'irepog 6 (pojp KoXovfievog fitXag 
TrXaTvydoTOip k.t.X. It will be noticed that Aristotle gives two 
varieties ; one reddish, the other black and striped, and that 
Varro takes the words ' ' black and striped " as referring to 
two separate species. 

^ Menecrates. Cf. i, i, 9: Easdem res etiam quidam versibus, 
ut Hesiodtis Aspraeus, Menecrates Ephesius^ and Pliny, xi, 7. 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 333 

and the striped (which is also the better one) — that 
if there is another king with him he quarrels with 
him and spoils the hive, as he either drives the other 
away or is himself driven away, taking with him a 
large number of bees. And so if there are two kings 
in the same hive it is better for the bee-keeper to 
19 kill the black one. Of bees which are not kings the 
best are the small, round, striped kind. The thief, 
called' by others the drone,* is black and broad- 
bellied. The bee which resembles the wasp ' does 
not join in the work, and has a habit of stinging, 
and the bees separate it from their company. Bees 
differ in being wild and tame — and here I mean by 
** wild " bees those that feed in woodland places, by 
** tame" ones those that do so on cultivated land. 
The wild* ones are smaller in size and covered with 
hairs, but are the better workers. 

' Vocabitur. Keil suggests vocatur, which I have translated. 

' Fucus. Aristotle distinguishes between the ' ' drone " and 
the "thief" {loc. cit.): 'inpot; 6 (pwp KaXovfifvo^, fxkXar Kai xXaTV- 
■yaoTup. iTi c 6 K7i<ffqv. ovtoq fikyiffTog ttuvtujv aKivrpoq Si Kai vioOpog. 
*• The second kind, the so-called * thief is black and broad- 
bellied. And again there is the drone ; this is the biggest of 
all, but stingless and stupid." Did Varro mistranslate trt 6 6 
Ki7f7v ovToi, "and again this drone," etc., and so identify It 
with the "thief"? 

' Vespa. I have adopted Schneider's emendation, vespae^ 
which accords well with Aristotle's aXX;; /zaicpu o/xoia t^ avOrjvr), 
and Pliny's (xi, 18) deteriores longae et quibus similitudo ves- 
parum. 

* Silvestres. Cf. Aristotle {loc. cit. ) : tlci yip at iwb ruiv v\ov6fi<ov 
iatn'/Tipcu Kai iXdrrovQ Kai ipyarucbtripai Kai xaXtiruirtpai. Further on 
in the same chapter he says : " the little ones are better workers 



334 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

In buying bees, the buyer must see whether they 

20 are in good or bad health. Indications of good 
health are : thick swarms, sleekness, and the smooth- 
ness ^ and uniformity of the work accomplished. It 
is significant of ill-health if they look hairy and 
covered with bristles, dusty* as it were; unless, in- 
deed, the time of hard work is upon them, for then 
toil makes them rough and in poor condition. 

21 If you have to move the hives elsewhere, you 
must do so with care, noting the times to be pre- 
ferred, and providing suitable places to move them 
to. For example, spring-time is better than winter, 
for if moved in winter they do not easily get used 
to their surroundings, and so generally fly away. 

than the big ; the edges of their wings are frayed and they look 
black and burnt, while the sleek and bright-looking bees are 
like idle women." 

^ Leve. Aristotle {loc. cit.) says that roughly fashioned cells 
are the work either of a " bad bee " or an inexperienced young- 
ster. 

- Ut pulverulentae. Cf. Vergil, Georg., iv, 95: 

Ut binae regumfacies ita corpora plehis 

Namque aliae turpes horrent; ceu pulvere ah alto 

Cum venit et sicco terram spuit ore viator 

Aridus ; elucent aliae ^ etfulgore coruscant 

Ardentes auro et paribus lita corpora guttis. 

Haec potior soboles. 

It is often difficult to determine whether Vergil is paraphrasing 

Varro or merely using the same sources. As to the passage 

quoted, Columella (ix, 4, 2) states that Vergil followed the 

authority of Aristotle. Columella himself used principally for 

his treatise on bees the writings of Hyginus, Celsus, and 

Vergil, and very often quotes from the last named. 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 335 

If you move them from a good situation to one 
where there is no suitable food, they desert. Again 
if you would transfer them from one hive to another 
in the same place, certain precautions must be 
taken ; the hive to which you mean to transfer them 
should be rubbed with apiastrum as this attracts 
them strongly, and you must place inside, not far 
from the entrance, some combs with honey in them, 
lest when they notice that there is nothing to eat^ 

He says that when they are upset by the food they 
find in early spring, which consists of almond ^ and 
cornel flowers, they suffer from diarrhoea, and should 
be cured by giving them urine to drink. 

What is called propolis is a substance used by 
bees for making (particularly in summer) a sort of 
gable in front of the hive, over the hole where they 
enter. Doctors ' also used propolis^ under the same 

' f'-^iam. Much must have here dropped out of the text. 
Columella, Pliny, Palladius and the Geoponica give 
not the slightest clue anywhere to the missing words. Keil 
thinks that the missing subject of dtcit is Menecrates. 

' Exflorihtis nucis Graecae. Most of the ancient authorities 
speak of this disease— fatal to bees — as caused by the tithy- 
inalus (sea lettuce) and the seed of the elm {satnera ulmt)^ and 
add that in those parts of Italy where these abound bees do 
not flourish (cf. Columella, ix, 13, 2). Columella {loc. cit.) 
mentions many remedies, as pounded pomegranate seed, rose- 
mary, etc., and amongst them that given by Varro, quidam 
huhulam vel hominis urinam, sicut Hyginus affirmat, alvis 
ipponunt. 

' Medici. Pliny (xxii, 24, beginning) describes the uses of 
propolis in medicine. " it draws out stings and foreign bodies, 



336 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

name, for making plasters; and for this reason it 
fetches more than honey in the Sacra Via. The so- 
called erithace^ — a different thing from honey or 
propolis — bees use for sticking together the edges of 
the combs, and so it has the power of attracting 
them. Accordingly people smear the bough or 
other object on which they want a swarm to settle, 

24 with a mixture of it and apiastrum. Honeycomb is 
what bees make of wax; this has many compart- 
ments in it, each one of which has six sides, as many 
sides as nature has given feet to each bee. It is 
said, too, that they do not extract from every flower 
alike the materials which they bring to the making 
of the four substances, propolis, erithace, honey- 
comb and honey. Some plants serve for but a 
single^ one of them; thus from the pomegranate 
and asparagus bees extract food only, from the olive 
tree wax, from the fig tree honey, which is, however, 

25 not good ; other plants serve for two, as from beans, 
apiastrum, gourds, and cabbages are extracted wax 

breaks up tumours, reduces hard swellings, assuages the pain 
of muscular rheumatism, and heals otherwise incurable ulcers." 
By the use of the word protectum Varro hints at a derivation 
of the word TrpoTroXic, viz., icpo and izokiq, " in front of the city." 

' Erithacen. Cf. iii, 16, 8. Both Pliny and Columella state 
that it is the bees' food. 

^ Siviplex. One is inclined to believe, with Keil and against 
Schneider, that the text is sound though the construction is 
harsh and elliptical. Simplex must be taken closely with quae 
adferunt. Of the things which they bring (i) there is a simple 
substance as . . . (2) duplex ministerium praeberi, **a two- 
fold supply is given by others, as for example ..." etc. 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 337 

and food ; two likewise are obtained from the apple 
tree and wild pear tree, namely food and honey, 
and a different two — wax and honey — from the 
poppy. Some plants also supply the material for 
three; the almond tree, for example, and lapsamtvi^ 
(cole-wort?), which furnish food, honey, wax. And 
so it is with what they extract from other flowers, 
for they choose some things to make one product, 
26 others to make several, and also adopt yet another 
distinction— or rather it adopts ' them — which is 
shown in the case of honey, when from one plant 
— say the blossom of sisera^ — they make liquid 
honey, from another, such as rosemary, honey that 
is thick. And the same may be said of other things, 
thus the honey made from the fig is insipid, that 
from the cytisus good, that from thyme' the best 
of all. 

* Lapsanum. Columella (ix, 4, 5) calls this lapsana: lam 
vero notae vilioris innumerabiles nascuntur herhae cultis atque 
pascuis regionibus quae favorum ceras exuberant ; ut vulgares 
lapsanae. Pliny (xx, 9) gives a description of it and places it 
inter silvestres brassicas. 

'* Aut eas sequatur. This quip of Varro's, as Keil points out, 
means merely that the bees cannot themselves determine the 
kind of honey which they will make from a given plant. 

' Sisera, generally written stser, was, to judge from Pliny's 
(xiv, 5) description, the parsnip. Pontedera adopts the reading 
he found in Crescentius, ciceris (chick-pea), reasoning a-jr' 

lIKOTiMtV. 

* /C thymo optimum. Columella (ix, 4, 6) after giving a long 
list of plants which are visited by bees, mentions the following 
in order of merit: (i) thyme, which produces honey of the 
finest flavour; (2) almost as good: savory, wild thyme, and 



338 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

27 Now as food is both liquid and solid, and the 
liquid food of bees is pure water, it should be pro- 
vided for them to drink. This should be near their 
hives and should flow past in a stream, or form a 
pool the depth of which, however, must not exceed 
two or three finger-breadths, and in this stream or 
pool bits ^ of pot or small stones should be placed 
standing a little above the surface, so that the bees 
can alight on them and drink. In this matter you 
must be most careful to see that the water is pure, 
as this is of the utmost importance for the making 

28 of good honey. As all weathers do not permit them 
to go far afield in search of food, food should be 
made ready for an emergency, for fear lest, being 
weather-bound, they may have to live on honey 
alone, or, when they have finished ^ it all, quit the 

marjoram; (3) not so good, but still excellent: rosemary and 
cunila (a kind of wild marjoram); (4) producing honey of 
fairly good flavour: the blossom of the tamarisk and jujube 
tree ; while the worst honey is produced from (5) esparto grass, 
arbutus, cabbages, and other plants which receive manure. 
Aristotle (v, 22 middle) says that bees get honey from all plants 
which have flowers enclosed in a cup : <^i.pu S' dird Travruiv /) 
fiikiTTa oaa iv koXvki dvOei. 

^ Testae. There is, I think, little doubt but that Vergil had 
this passage before him when he wrote (Georg., iv, 25): 
In medium seu stabit iners seu profluet humor 
Tranversas salices et grandia conice saxa: 
Pontihus ut crehris possint consistere, et alas 
Pandere ad aestivum solem; si forte morantes 
Sparserit aut praeceps Neptuno immerserit Eurus. 
^ Exinanitas. This is Keil's interpretation, to which objec- 
tion may be made that the antithesis is then false and that 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 339 

hive. Accordingly, about ten pounds of ripe figs 
are boiled down in six congii (about four and a half 
gallons) of water, and when cooked ^ are made into 
cakes and placed near the hives. Other people have 
vessels filled with water sweetened with honey placed 
near at hand, on to which they put clean ' wool, so 
that the bees may suck the hydromel through it, 
avoiding thus at one stroke the double danger of 
either drinking too much at a time or of falling into 
the water. Vessels are placed, one near each hive, 
and are kept filled. Other people pound raisins and 
figs together, pour sapa on the mixture, and then 
make it into cakes which are put in some^ place 

the passage would seem to require the emendation of Urslnus 
which Keil rejects, viz., ac (instead of aut) relinquere. Ex- 
inanitas, I Imagine, means ''deserted by its inhabitants," not 
"emptied of honey." It might, however, mean "If they have 
been emptied of honey." 

* Coctas. The expression, coctas in offas, "cooked into cakes," 
seems harsh enough to justify Ursinus's emendation, coactas. 

• Lanam puram. Cf Columella, ix, 14, 15: "The better 
practice is, I believe, in winter, when the bees are starving, to 
place in small troughs close to the entrances of the hives dried 
figs which have been pounded and then steeped In water, or 
de/rutunty or raisin wine, and to steep in these liquids a piece 
of clean wool on which the bees may stand and suck up the 
fluid as though through a pipe. Cf. Pliny, xxi, 14 : Si cibus 
deesse censeatur apibus, uvas passas ficosque siccas tusas ad fores 
earum posuisse conveniet. Item lanas tractas (carded ) viadenies 
passo aut defruto aqua mulsa. 

' Ibi quoforas. 1 have followed Victorius's interpretation — 
which is adopted by Keil — but with some misgiving, for, as 
Schneider points out, bees do not quit the hive In search oi 
food during the winter. Instead oijoras perhaps the ad fores 



340 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

outside the hive where the bees, though it be winter, 

29 can still go for food. When bees are about to swarm, 
which is generally when a good number of young 
ones have been born to them without mishap, and 
the hive means to send forth its children to form as 
it were a colony, just as the Sabines in old times 
often had to do owing to the large numbers of their 
children — you can tell when this is going to happen 
by means of two signs which usually precede it. 
(i) Some days before, especially in the evening, 
bunches of bees hanging together like grapes are to 

30 be seen before the entrance of the hive. (2) When 
they are just on the point of flying away or have 
actually begun to do so they make a loud humming 
like the sound made by soldiers when moving camp. 
Those which first leave the hive fly about in sight, 
looking back repeatedly at the others who have not 
yet swarmed until they too come. When the bee- 
keeper sees what has happened, he terrifies them 

31 by throwing dust ' upon them, and by clashing brass 

{or foras) of the passage quoted above from Pliny might be 
read : " Whither — to the entrances, that is — they can at least 
go for food even though it be winter." Varro then would be 
in complete agreement with Columella and Pliny. The precise 
definition of quo by a parenthetic ad fores is quite in Varro's 
manner. 

^ laciundo pulvere. In Vergil (Georg., iv, 67-87) it is in order 
to part the armies of two rival kings that dust is thrown, when : 

Hi motus animorum atque haec certamina tanta 
Pulveris exigui iactu compressa quiescunt. 

Vergil's compressa corresponds to Varro's perierritae, but how 
the poet turns all to favour and to prettiness ! 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 341 

around them, while the place, which should not be 
far away, to which it is wished to bring them is 
smeared ' with erithace, apiastrum^ and other things 
of which they are fond. When they have settled, a 
hive is brought there, smeared inside with the en- 
ticing substances I have mentioned. This is placed 
close to the swarm, which is then forced by a gentle 
fumigation to enter it. When once the bees have 
entered the new colony they remain there with such 
goodwill that, even if you place next to them the old 
hive from which they came, they still prefer the new 
home. 
32 Having stated what I considered to be of import- 
ance in the matter of bee-feeding, I will now pro- 
ceed to discuss its object — the produce. 

The time for taking ^ the honey-combs is indicated 

^ Oblinunt. For this some such object as ramum seems to 
be required, but it is quite possible that Varro disdained to be 
more explicit. 

* Eximendorum favorum. As I have translated this passage, 
I had better perhaps say here what I have translated. This is 
the reading of the Archetype as given by Victorius : Signum 
eximendorum favorum sumunt ex ipsis viris alvos haheat nem 
cogerminarit coniecturd capiunt si intus faciunt bombum ety cum 
intro eunt acforas trepidant et siopercula alvorum cum remoreissi 
favorum foramina obducta videntur membranis, cum sint repleti 
melle. Scaliger's remark on this is : Non est locus inquinatior 
istOy et sane eum emendandi omnem prorsus spem abieci. And 
so say Victorius and Keil. In order to get something to trans- 
late I have supposed this to have been written : Signum eximen- 
dorum favorum sumunt ex ipsis {fures alvos habeatne an cotitra 
exterminarit coniecturam capiunt si intus faciunt bombum ety 
cum intro eunt et foraSy trepidant) et opercula alvorum cum 



342 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

by thestateofthehoneycombs themselves, foryou may 
know that it has come, if, on removing the lids of 
the hives, the cells are seen to be covered with a 
thin skin, being then full of honey; (one guesses 
whether the hive still contains drones or has 
already expelled them by the loud buzzing the bees 
make inside the hive, and by their rushing in wild 
33 excitement in and out of it). When the honey is re- 
moved, some say that nine-tenths should be taken 
and a tenth ' left, for if you take away the whole the 
bees will desert the hive. Some people leave more 

remoris (Keil) si favorum foramina ohducta videntur memhranis 
— cum sunt repleti melle^ and I have translated the parenthesis 
last. As tofures for viris : Varro has already mentioned /wr as 
a name given to drones (lii, i6, 19), and the killing of them 
seems to be indicated by what follows. Alvos (here, of course, 
nominative) is frequently used by Pliny and Columella for the 
bees in the hive. For nem I have written ne an. The altera- 
tion of congerminarit to contra exterminarit is violent, but Colu- 
mella (ix, 15, 3) uses exterminare in this relation : Hos quidam 
praecipiunt in totum exterminari oportere. In the phrase et si 
favorum . . . cum remoreissi Keil obviously deletes the wrong 
siy and in the last clause sunt instead of sint seems to be 
necessary. To the reading proposed much support is given by 
Columella (ix, 15, 4) : Ergo cum rixamfucorum etapium saepius 
committi videris adapertas alvos inspicies ut, sive semipleni 
favi sint differantur: sive iam liquore coinpleti, et superpositis 
ceris tamquam operculis ohliti demetantur, and Palladius (June 
vii) : Item cumfucos a sedihus suis, qui sunt apes maiores, grandi 
intentione deturhant matura tnella testantur. 

^ Decumam. Columella (ix, 15, 8) says: "In summertime 
a fifth, and on the approach of winter, a third of the honey 
should be left; but on this point ancient authorities dis- 
agree. 



Ill] OF BEES AND APIARIES 343 

than the amount stated. As in the case of ploughed 
lands those who have yearly ' crops from them get 
more corn after intervals of comparative rest, so with 
hives, if you do not take the honey every year, or 
take less of it, your bees are busier and pay better. 

34 The honey should first be taken, it is thought, at 
the rising of the Pleiads, next when summer is over, 
before Arcturus has fully risen, and for the third time 
after the setting of the Pleiads; and at this time, 
even if the hive be fertile, not more than a third of 
the honey should be taken, and the rest should be 
left for their winter supply, while if the hive be not 
fertile none at all should be removed. When a large 
amount is to be taken, it should not be removed all 
at once or in sight of the bees, lest they lose heart. 
If any part of the honey-combs which have been got 
has no honey in it, or if what it has is dirty, that 

35 part must be cut off with a knife. Care should be 
taken to prevent the weaker bees from being bullied 
by the stronger, for so the yield is decreased. Ac- 
cordingly the weaker are generally separated from 
the rest and given another king. 

Those who will continually fight together should 
be sprinkled with water sweetened with honey, when 
they not only leave off fighting, but crowd together 
and lick one another. The effect is more marked if 
wine and honey is used, the smell of which makes 

* Restibiles. Cf. i, 44, 2 and 3, a passage which fully ex- 
plains this, and makes unnecessary the insertion of non before 
restibiles as proposed by Ursinus and others. Compare also 
ii, 7, II. 



344 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

them come to it with great eagerness and drink 
until they are stupefied. 

36 If too few come out of the hive, and some con- 
stantly remain behind, recourse must be had to 
fumigations, and near by some sweet-smelling 
herbs ^ should be placed, in particular apiastrum 

37 and thyme. The utmost care must be taken to pre- 
vent their dying from extreme heat or cold. If ever 
they have been surprised while feeding by a sudden 
shower or fall of temperature, which even they had 
not foreseen — for it rarely happens that they are 
deceived — and the big drops have struck them to 
the earth where they lie as dead, you must put^ 
them together into some vessel, and place them out 
of the way in a sheltered and moderately warm spot, 
and the next day when the weather is at its best, 
bits of fig-wood should be burned to ashes, and 
these, when they are a little hotter than lukewarm, 

^ Herharum. A use of the genitive rare in Latin, quite com- 
mon in Greek, as in such phrases as o\vov mvuv, Trig yVQ rkfivuvy 
etc. Cf. Varro, iii, 17, 7. 

^ Colligendum. It is remarkable that both Columella (ix, 
13, 4) and Pliny (xi, 20) speak of this practice as adopted for 
the resuscitation in the spring of bees that have died on the 
approach of winter. Pliny says : " Some people think that the 
dead bees revive if they are kept in the house during the 
winter, and then, when the spring comes are warmed in the 
sun and kept hot for a whole day in fig-wood ashes." Columella 
{loc. cit) makes substantially the same statement about bees 
which have died from disease, taking Hyginus as his authority, 
"who himself followed ancient authors and dared not assert 
the truth of the story." In any case. Columella says, the best 
thing is to prevent them from dying. 



Ill] OF FISH-PONDS 345 

should be sprinkled over the bees, which must 
then be gently shaken, vessel and all — so that you 
do not touch them with the hand — and placed in 
the sun. Thus thoroughly warmed they are re- 
stored and come to life again, just as it happens in 
the case of drowned flies. This treatment is to be 
carried out close to the hives, so that when won 
back to life, each bee may return to his own work 
and home. 



I 



CHAPTER XVH 

OF FISH-PONDS 

r Meanwhile Pavo* came back to us and said: 
Suppose we weigh anchor; the votes ^ have been 
given, and the tribes are casting^ lots, and the crier 
is beginning to shout out^ the name of the aedile 
chosen by each tribe. Appius at once jumped up; 
meaning to greet his candidate on the spot, and 

Pavo. See iii, 5, 18. 

^ Latis tabulisy i.e., sujfragiis. Cf. Cicero, Pro Plancio, 20: 
Vocatae trihus latum suffraj^um, descriptae^ renuntiatae. 

' Sortitio tribuum, to decide, in the case of competitors who 
had received an equal number of votes, which should be 
chosen. Cf. Pro Plancio, 22: Neque enim umquam maiores 
nostri sortitionem constituissent aedilitiam, nisi viderent accidere 
posse ut competitores pares suffragiis essent. This speech throws 
much light on the comilia aedilitia. 

* Recini. The verhum solenne is recitari. Keil thinks there 
is here a reference to the ** sing-song " utterance of the crier. 



I 



346 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

then go on to his country house/ Whereupon 
Merula remarked: Some other time, Axius, I will 
give you the third act * concerning farm-yard feed- 
ing. They (Merula and Appius) rose, and Axius 
and I stood looking back at them as they went, for 
we knew our candidate would come that^ way. 
Said Axius to me: I am not sorry that Merula 
has left us at this point, for I know pretty well 
2 what remains to be said. Thus: there are two sorts 
of fish-ponds, those of fresh water and those of salt. 

^ Hortos. Varro has the same phrase, discedere in horios, at 
the end of Book 1 1 : Itaque discedimus ego et Scrofa in horios ad 
Vitulum. Horti has different meanings: (i) gardens in our 
sense — Varro (i, 16, 3) speaks of market gardens: suh urhe 
hortos \ (2) pleasure grounds, whether public or private; (3) 
the estate of a country gentleman — the villa with its grounds. 
Entertainments were frequently given in hortis, cf. Cicero 
(Phil., ii, 6): Hodie non descendit Antonius. Cur? Natalitia 
dat in hortis. And again, De Officiis, iii, 14: Ad cenam 
hominem in hortos invitavit in proxivium diem. For dinners in 
hortis stone triclinia were commonly used. In several of the 
peristylia of the houses at Pompeii these stone couches are to 
be seen disposed round a central table. They are very com- 
fortable. I imagine then that Appius intended to congratulate 
his candidate (he seems to have been sure that he would be 
elected !) and then go and dine with him, just as, presumably, 
Varro and Scrofa went to Vitulus's country place to spend what 
remained of the holiday. Perhaps Appius's candidate lived on • 
the slope of the Pincian Hill {collis hortorum) which was less 
than a mile away from the Villa Publica. 

^ Tertium actuvty i.e., de piscinis. Cf. iii, 3, i. 

3 Et candidaium. I have translated Ursinus's emendation 
ea, for the et of the Archetype seems pointless, seeing that 
Appius's candidate was not coming. 



Ill] OF FISH-PONDS 347 

Those of the one kind, in which water is supplied 
to our home-fed fishes by the river Nymphs/ are 
kept by men of the people, and are profitable 
enough; while the other sea-water ponds which 
belong to the nobles, and get both water and 
fishes from Neptune, appeal more to the eye than 
to the pocket, and empty rather than fill the 
owner's purse. For they cost a great deal to build, 
a great deal to stock, and a great deal to feed. 
3 Hirrus^ used to make 1 2,000 "^ sesterces (;^96) a 
year out of the buildings round about his fish- 
ponds — and spent every penny of it on food for the 
fishes. And no wonder, for I remember he lent 
on a single occasion to C. Caesar 2,000 ' lampreys 
by weight, and that his villa fetched four million 
sesterces (;^32,ooo) when sold, owing to the great 

' Lymphae. Keil in both editions writes this word with a 
small Ir.itial letter. It seems much better to write it with a 
capital, for the sake of the antithesis between the Lymphae 
and Neptune. Varro has already (i, i, 6) mentioned Lympha 
as a goddess : Nee non etiam precor Lympham ac Bonum Eveiu 
turn. 

^ Hirrus. Cf. ii, i, 2. 

' Duodena milia. Cf. note, iii, 16, 11. 

* Duo milia. Pliny (ix, 55) has six thousand: Murenarum 
I'iifarium privalim excojifitavit C. Hirrus ante alios qui cenis 
triumphalibus Caesaris Dictatoris sex milia numero murenarum 
mutuo appendit (Varro's mutua inpondus dedit). Nampermutare 
quidem pretio noluit aliave merce. Hirrus would accept no 
payment in money, but stipulated for the return of the same 
weight of lampreys. Macrobius (ii, 11) repeats Pliny's state 
ment and adds the detail that Hirrus's villa was not very big 
{quamvis non amplam aui latum). 



348 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

quantity of fish in its waters. So with good reason 
is the inland pond, owned by common people, called 
"sweet" and the other *' bitter," for which of us is 
not contented with a single fish-pond of the former 
kind, and on the other hand, what man that has 
begun with a single salt-water pond, but goes on to 
4 have a regular suite of them? For just as Pausias ^ 
and the other painters of his school have large paint- 
boxes divided into compartments in which to keep 
their wax-pigments of different colours, so our 
wealthy men possess fish-ponds having similar 
compartments for keeping separate different kinds 
of fish, these fish being sacred and more inviolable 
than those Lydian ones that you used to tell us 

^ Pausias. Pliny (xxxv, ii, beginning) gives an interesting 
account of him. He was a native of Sicyon, which he made 
for a long time "the home of painting," and was a con- 
temporary of Apelles, and taught by the same master, Pam- 
phylus. He was the first to become famous as a painter of 
encaustic pictures (Ceris pingere ac picturam inurere). The 
most interesting fact about him, however, is that, according to 
Pliny, he discovered fore-shortening : Earn enim picturam 
primus invenit quam postea imitati sunt multi, aequavit nemo. 
Ante omnia, cum longitudinem bovis ostendere vellet, adversum 
eum pinxit non transversum unde et ahunde intelligitur ampli- 
tudo . . . magna prorsus arte in aequo exstantia ostendens et in 
confracto omnia solida. Did he show the naive delight, one 
wonders, in his invention, which Uccello, who re-discovered 
the art some eighteen centuries later, displays in his pictures? 
Varro was doubtless familiar with his original works, for in 
the aedileship of Aemilius Scaurus, who was consul in the 
year of Varro's birth, Sicyon being unable to pay its debts, 
they were forfeited and taken to Rome. 



I 



Ill] OF FISH-PONDS 349 

about, Varro, which, when you were sacrificing near 
the sea came up at the sound of a flute to the edge 
of the shore and quite close to the altar, no one 
daring to catch them — it was about the same time 
that you saw the Lydian islands dancing ^ round 
and round — well, these fishes of ours are equally 
sacred, so sacred that no cook dares to call them 
5 over' the coals. Our common friend Quintus Hor- 
tensius had fish-ponds near Bauli ' which had cost 

* xopivovaag. Pliny devotes a chapter (ii, 95) to "islands which 
always float," and mentions many such in Italy near Reate, 
Statona, etc., as well as those in Lydia called, from the abund- 
ance of reeds (caXa^oi) which grew on them, calaminae. With 
regard to the latter he says : In Lydia quae vocantur Calaminae 
mm ventis solum sed etiam contis quolibet impuhae muUorum 
civium Mithridatico hello salus. So that Varro probably saw 
these islands when he was one of Pompey's legati in 67 or 66 B.C. 
Scaliger quotes the following passage from Martianus Capella 
(which I have not consulted) : In Lydia Nympharum insulas 
dicunt quas etiam recentior asserentium Varro se vidisse testatur 
quae in medium stagnum a continenti procedentes cantu tihiarum 
prima in circulum motae^ dehinc ad litora revertuntur. 

* In ius. Cicero somewhere in the Verrines makes the 
same sort of pun, speaking of the ius Verrinum, i.e., 
Verres's administration of justice, or "Boar's gravy." The 
passage in the text means literally " to summon to ius, trial 
or sauce." 

* Baulos. The modern Bacoli, about two miles from Baiae 
(Baja). Ruins, now partly under water, of the very fish-ponds 
mentioned here by Varro are still to be seen at Bacoli. Cf. Pliny 
(ix, 55) : Apud Baulos in parte Baiana piscinam habuit Hor- 
tensius Orator in qua murenam adeo dilexit ut exanimatam flesse 
credatur. Cicero called Hortensius//jf:/«anMJ (Macrobius, ii, 
II, and Cicero, Ad Atticum, i, 19). 



350 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

him a great sum to build, and I know, for I often 
used to stay with him at his country-house, that he 
used always to send to Puteoli to buy the fish for 

6 dinner. And it was not enough that his fish-ponds 
didn't feed him, but he must needs, if you please, 
with his own ^ hands feed them, being more anxious 
lest his mullets should feel the pangs of starvation 
than I do lest my asses ' at Rosea should go hungry. 
He spent, too, a good deal more on the former than 
I do on the latter in the matter of both food and 
drink. For all I need for the feeding of my costly 
asses is one little slave, a trifle of barley, and water 
found on the estate, while Hortensius in the first 
place kept an army of fishermen to feed the fish, 
who used constantly to bring him masses of tiny 
fishes which were destined to serve as food for the big 

7 ones. He would buy, besides, salt-fish, and throw 

^ Ipse, "with his own hands." Macrobius (ii, 9) tells this 
story about Hortensius: "He used to water his plane trees 
with wine, and in a certain case in which he and Cicero had 
both to speak, he asked Cicero as a favour to change with him, 
as he was obliged to go home to water with his own hands a 
plane tree which he had planted on his Tusculum estate " — 
ahire in villain necessario se velle ut vinum platano quam in 
Tusculano posuerat ipse suffunderet. Macrobius says also that 
Hortensius prosecuted his colleague for assault and battery, 
because the latter, meeting him on a narrow footpath, had 
jostled him and disordered the folds of his toga — which he 
used to arrange before a looking-glass ! 

^ Asinos. Cf. iii, 2, 9. In the mulli above, Schneider sees a 
pun, from the similarity of sound in mulli and muli. It is very 
likely that he is right, for the pun would give point to the 
antithesis between mullet (mules) and asses. 



Ill] OF FISH-PONDS 351 

it into his ponds, when the sea was stormy, and^ 
when, owing to the weather, the market that supplies 
the fish-ponds (the sea, that is) refused its food, and 
the live food, the fish eaten by the common people 
for supper, could not be got to shore with a net. 
You would sooner, said I, have got Hortensius's 
consent to your taking his carriage-mules from the 
stable and keeping them for your own, than a 

8 bearded mullet from his fish-pond. And, Axius 
went on, he was as much troubled about a sick fish 
as about a slave who was not very well, and so took 
less pains to prevent a slave who was ill from drink- 
ing cold water than to see that his fish had it fresh. 
For neglect in this matter he used to blame Marcus 
Lucullus,^ and thought little of his fish-ponds, as, 
he said, Lucullus had no proper tidal basins, and 
as the water was stagnant his fish lived in an un- 

9 healthy place, whereas Lucius Lucullus, who near 

* Ac, The sense of the passage would be greatly improved 
if nee were read instead of ac, for then viare {piscinaru7n mare), 
doubtless interpolated, could be explained as a scribe's note on 
macellum. Hortensius used to buy salt fish, when, owing to a 
storm, the market which usually supplied his fish-ponds {i.e., 
the sea) did not supply food, etc. Columella (viii, 17, 12) recom- 
mends all kinds of salt fish, rotten sardines, etc., and the 
sweepings of the fishmongers' stalls {quae cetariorum offieinis 
i-^'crrantur). 

* Mareus Lucullus. A brother of Lucius Lucullus. The two 
are often mentioned together by Cicero, cf De Provin. Con- 
sular., 9, and Dc Oflficiis, ii, 14 {ut duo Lucullt), etc. Cf. 
Velleius Paterculus (ii, 49, 1): si prius jp-atulatus ero Q. Catulo^ 
duobus LucuUis, Metelloque et Hortensio. 



352 VARRO ON FARMING [bk. 

Naples had pierced a mountain ' and let in the sea 
into his fish-ponds, whereby the latter themselves 
became tidal, had as fine a fishing-ground as 
Neptune — for it seems as though he had brought 
his beloved fish on account of the boiling heat into 
a cooler climate, as is the custom of the Apulian ^ 
cattle breeders, who lead their flocks along the 
cattle-tracks to the Sabine mountains. And in the 
case of his country-house at Baiae he was when 
building it consumed with such eagerness that he 
gave his architect permission to spend money 
as though it were his (the architect's) own, pro- 
vided that he managed to make a passage from 
his fish-ponds to the sea, and threw out a mole by 
which twice a day from the first quarter of the moon 
to the next new moon the tide could come in and go 
back to the sea — and thus cool his fish-ponds, 
lo Our conversation had reached this point when 
there was a noise on the right, and our candidate, 
now aedile-designate came into the Villa Publica 
clad in the toga ^ praetexta. We went up to him 

^ Montem. Cf. Pliny, ix, 54. Lucullus exciso etiam vionte 
iuxta Neapolim maiore impendio quam villam aedificaverat^ 
euripum et maria admisit. Qua de causa Magnus Pompeius 
Xerxen togatum eum appellahat. This Neapolitan villa is men- 
tioned by Cicero (Academicorum, ii, 3) in connection with 
Hortensius's villa, ad Baulos, on the occasion of a visit paid by 
Cicero, Catulus, and Lucullus to Hortensius. It stood on the 
hill of Posilipo, where Vedius Pollio, Vergil, and many others 
had villas. 

^ Ut Apuli Solent. Cf. ii, i, 16, and ii, 2, 9. 

^ Cum lata. Their candidate had just been elected Curule 



Ill] OF FISH-PONDS 353 

and after congratulations escorted him to the 
Capitol. And so he to his house/ we to ours. 
And thus ended the conversation about ^'home 
feeding," of which, my friend Pinnius, I have 
given you the gist. 

Aedile and so had the right to wear the dress peculiar to 
senators and certain magistrates — the toga praetexta — which 
had a broad band of purple {latus clavus). The word to be 
understood after lata is probably purpura. For the right of a 
Curule Aedile to wear the toga praetexta cf. Cic. in Verrem, 
V, 14 — the locu^ classicus for the duties and privileges of a 
Curule Aedile. 

* Endo suam domum. This is a deliberate archaism and is 
thought to be an imitation of Ennius's endo suam do (quoted 
by Ausonius), where the do is an apocopated form of domum 
resembling Homer's ^w. 



AA 



EXCURSUS I 

ON THE TIME AND PLACE OF THE DIALOGUE IN 
BOOK II 

With regard to the place and occasion of the dialogue 
in Book II there is great difficulty; for whereas in the 
two other books Varro mentions these explicitly, here 
neither is indicated, and the conversation begins so 
abruptly that nearly all the commentators have been 
driven to infer a large lacuna in the text. Gesner, how- 
ever, followed by Gaston Boissier, maintains that nothing 
is missing, and that Varro, like Homer in the Odyssey, 
plunged at once into the heart of his subject in order to 
quicken the curiosity of the reader. This opinion is, I 
think, quite untenable, for save in this respect the plan 
of all three books is the same — introduction, dedication, 
place, and occasion, while the obvious corruption of the 
text at the point where the dialogue begins, and the 
fact that here fresh copyists took up the work of tran- 
scription, make it not improbable that much has been lost, 
especially as the place where the gap is thought to be is 
precisely where in the two other books Varro describes 
the circumstances in which the conversations arose — 
namely, at the end of the introduction. Most editors, 
assuming this loss, refuse to waste time on the attempt 
to solve an insoluble riddle, and Pontedera (Curae Post- 
humae) even charges Varro with self-contradiction, for 

355 



356 VARRO ON FARMING 

he says : "from Varro's statement that the dialogue took 
place when he was in command of the fleets between 
Delos and Sicily we must infer that the place was not in 
Italy, while from xi, 12, lihertus in urhem veniens ex 
hortis, it is clear that it was in Rome." The problem may 
be insoluble, but deserves, I think, more consideration 
than it has received. 

In the first place, then, it is clear from viii, i, and 
xi, 12, that the interlocutors were met together to cele- 
brate a hoHday. Now as Varro was careful, in the first 
book, to choose a time and place especially appropriate 
to the topic to be discussed — the Sementivae and the 
temple of Tellus — (in the third there was no divinity or 
temple which was connected with his subject) it is a 
priori probable that he took the same course in the 
second. As the topic was here cattle, and the speakers 
were pastores — pecuarii — no other festival could be so 
appropriate as the Palilia, the great shepherd-festi- 
val and the birthday of Rome, which was founded by 
shepherds. And there is direct evidence in the text 
for this supposition. Luciepus, v, i, after greeting the 
company, leaves them for a few minutes to '*pay his 
pence to Pales " (I read Pali his for the Palihus of the 
archetype, Schneider's Palilibus^ or Keil's Laribus) and 
the lihertus of Menas (viii, i) says; "the liha are 
ready, and will the gentlemen come and sacrifice for 
themselves." But liha were especially characteristic 
of the bloodless sacrifices to Pales, cf. Ovid, Fasti, iv, 
774: 

At nos faciamus ad annum 
Pastorum dominae grandia liba Pali. 

It may be regarded, I think, as practically certain that 









EXCURSUS I 357 

these imagfinary conversations are supposed to have been 
held at the festival of the Palilia, 67 B.C. 

To fix with the same certainty the place where they 
took place is, I fear, not possible, but 2i prima facie case 
may perhaps be made out for Buthrotum or Cassiope. 

Varro at the end of the introduction says that he will 
reproduce conversations which he had had with owners 
of large cattle-ranches in Epirus, at the time of the war 
against the Pirates when, as a legatus of Pompey, he 
was in command of fleets between Delos and Sicily ; so 
that the scene of the dialogue must have been outside 
Italy. Pontedera's second inference that it must have 
been Rome is absurd, for urbs unqualified does not 
necessarily mean Rome, and the Palilia being the birth- 
day of the capital, was doubtless celebrated not only in 
Italy but in all the Roman provinces. As Varro states 
that the dialogue is between Epirot cattle-breeders, and 
as three of the speakers are demonstrably Epirots — 
Atticus, whose income came principally from cattle- 
farms in Epirus (cf. Corn. Nep., Atticus), Cossinius, and 
Lucienus, who addresses the other two as 2vi/»;7rctpwrat 
(v, i) — and as the coast there would be in Varro's beat 
(the Sicilian and Ionian Seas as far as Acarnania, cf. 
Appian B. Mith. 39), and as Epirus was celebrated for 
its cattle and so was not unlikely to be chosen by Varro 
for these imaginary conversations, some city in or near 
Epirus seems indicated. 

It appears from the beginning of the dialogue that the 
discussion was continued from a short while before, 
when it had been interrupted by the arrival of the doctor. 
Now in i, 4, 5, Varro says that when the fleet and army 
were atCorcyra, and all the houses were filled with sick 
or dead people, he managed by taking certain precau- 



358 VARRO ON FARMING 

tions to bring back his comrades and household safe and 
sound. Corcyra was just off Epirus and opposite 
Buthrotum, where Atticus had a house (Cicero, Ad Att., 
iv, 8). We know, too, from Cicero (Ad Att., i, 5-8) that 
between 68 and 66 Atticus was travelHng in Greece ; and 
that Corcyra was malarious, for in 51 Atticus (Ad Att., 
vi, 2) caught a bad quartan fever there from which he 
recovered with difficulty (Ad Att., vii, 5, 9, etc.). If Varro 
was at Cassiope {partus Corcyraeorum^ cf. Cic. Ad Div., 
xvi, 9) no doubt his friend Atticus, if then at Buthrotum, 
would run over to see him. The epidemic which was 
raging would explain the visit of the doctor. 

Again, the talk must have taken place in some build- 
ing in the city (vii, i), for in v, i, Lucienus is spoken of 
as introiens (coming inside), and not in a private house, 
for the libertus of Vitulus was on his way to Varro's quar- 
ters when seeing him and the others he came to them. 
It seems likely that the building was a temple (just as in 
Book I), possibly an aedes Palis. I would suggest the 
following as a plausible reconstruction of the plot. 

Some time in April 67 B.C. the fleet with which Varro 
was hunting pirate galleys put into Cassiope, the princi- 
pal harbour of Corcyra. On the 20th, or a little before, 
Atticus and Cossinius came over to see him, and began 
a conversation on cattle-raising, which was interrupted 
by the arrival of the doctor, who carried off Varro 
{wot/LiEva Xawv) to see a sick man, or to consult about the 
health of the soldiers and seamen. On the following day 
Varro, Atticus, Cossinius, Murrius, Vaccius, Scrofa, 
Pomponius Vitulus — probably a kinsman of Atticus — 
and Menas met by appointment to make arrangements 
for spending the Palilia. Vitulus, who had a house and 
grounds outside the city (xi, 12), asked Varro and 



EXCURSUS I 359 

Scrofa to spend the holiday with him, and on their 
accepting went away to give the necessary orders. 
Menas, who had a house not far away, invited others of 
the party to come to him, and he too left. After some 
general conversation (as in Books I and III) Varro pre- 
pared to go to Vitulus's, but the rest refused to let him 
depart (II, i, ii) until he had given the discourse on 
catth-raising which he had previously begun. And so 
the dialogue begins and goes on for four chapters, when 
Lucienus arrives, is scolded by the others for coming 
late, and goes off to pay his pence to Pales, taking 
Murrius with him as a witness, for fear they should try 
to nake him pay his contribution twice over. He is 
absent for a few minutes, then returns to discourse later 
on horses. A few chapters further Menas's freedman 
comes to tell them that the sacrificial cakes are ready, 
and to ask his friends to go and sacrifice. The Palilia, 
by the way, was a private as well as a public festival 
{c(. Scholiast to Persius, i, 72). 

Later still (xi, 12), Vitulus, growing impatient — and 
no wonder! — sends his freedman to beg Varro and 
Scrofa to come at once and not to cut short the holiday 
as they were doing. '*And so, my friend Turranius 
Niger, we parted, Scrofa and I through Vitulus's 
grounds to his house, while the rest of the party went 
some to Menas's, some to their own homes." 



EXCURSUS II 

THE TEXT OF THE RERUM RUSTICARUM 

There is not much to be said concerning- the tex: of 
these books, which rests in the last resort upon the 
authority of one manuscript only, which has long ago 
disappeared. In 1794 Schneider pointed out that all ex- 
isting manuscripts were derived directly or indirectly 
from it, and this fact has been abundantly proved in 
modern times by the great German scholar Keil. This 
manuscript — the Marcian — which Pietro Vittorio calls 
" liber antiquissimus et fidelissimus," was in his time in 
the library of St. Mark at Florence, and was much used 
by him in the preparation of his edition of Cato and 
Varro, published in 1541. Its most important readings 
— where they diverge from the printed editions and 
other manuscripts to which he had access — are given, 
and are occasionally discussed in the *' Explicationes 
suarum in Catonem, Varronem, Columellam castiga- 
tionum," which appeared in 1542. Before Vittorio, 
Angelo Politian had in 1482 collated this manuscript 
with the Jenson edition (editio princeps 1472, made 
under the auspices of Georgius Merula) and had entered 
in his copy of the latter all readings of the Marcian 
MS., which differed from the printed edition. 
Of remaining manuscripts the most important are the 
360 



EXCURSUS II 361 

Codex Parisinus (early thirteenth century), a faithful 
transcript of a good copy of the Marcian, not mentioned 
by Vittorio, and the Codex which is called by Keil 
** Mediceus " (fourteenth century), and is frequently re- 
ferred to by Vittorio as '* Semivetus," or " Gallicanus." 
By the help of Politian's collation, Vittorio's edition of 
1541, his " Explicationes " of 1542, and the two manu- 
scripts mentioned, the Archetype has been disentangled 
from the numerous emendations of Renaissance scholars 
which, owing to ignorance of Varro's peculiar style, and 
the fact that they were not made in accordance with any 
fixed principle of textual emendation are in many in- 
stances as worthless as they are ingenious. Unfortun- 
ately, however, the Archetype thus restored to us is full 
of corruptions, and neither Politian nor Vittorio has 
given any clue to its probable date — though Vittorio 
calls it very ancient — or mentions the script in which it 
was written. It seems probable, however, that the Arche- 
type was an early Carolingian Minuscule, for (i) Vittorio 
says that it was older than his other manuscripts longo 
intervallo; (2) the abbreviations, as we may gather from 
his *' Explicationes," are few and simple, which is the 
case with early minusculae, but not with late; (3) the 
mistakes made are precisely those usually made by the 
scribes of the ninth and tenth centuries, when copying 
from earlier minuscule MSS., written in one or other of 
the so-called national scripts. As an example, ** a " and 
** u " are persistently confused in the Archetype — twenty- 
one cases occur in the three books. Now Alcuin in a letter 
to Charlemagne refers to the corruptions which arose 
from the difficulty of distinguishing between them — 
**possunt quaedam ex his exemplis vitio scriptoris 
esse corrupta et ' u ' pro * a ' vel etiam ' a ' pro ' u ' 



362 VARRO ON FARMING 

posita." (Lindsay, Latin Textual Emendation, 84.) In 
some Merovingian and Lombard scripts these letters are 
almost indistinguishable. Again the first words of the first 
book are given by Politian as ' ' P. otius, " for ' ' si otium " — 
and ' ' si " in some pre-Carolingian minusculae looks exactly 
like P. There are of course also the mistakes common 
to scribes of all ages — dittography, haplography, wrong 
division of letters to form words as well as those arising 
from the misreading of certain abbreviations, which 
varied in different scripts: cf. the confusion between the 
forms ofthe relative," qui," "quae," "quod" "quam"; 
" aliqui " and " ahquod " (" aliquot "), etc. 

On the other hand, had the Archetype been written in 
Merovingian, Lombardic, or Visigothic script, Vittorio 
would surely have mentioned the fact. 

For these and other reasons it seems probable that 
the Archetype was a ninth- or tenth-century minuscule, 
copied from a pre-Carolingian minuscule. 

For the emendation of the faulty text of the Rerum 
Rusticarum use has been made of: (i) internal evidence 
from the books themselves; (2) Varro's other writings; 
(3) quotations made from the Rerum Rusticarum by the 
ancient grammarians, especially by Monius Marcellus, 
who quotes frequently from the first book ; (4) the sources 
which Varro used, especially Cato, Theophrastus, and 
Aristotle; (5) the Geoponica, in which Varro is often 
literally translated ; (6) the authors who without quoting 
his actual words, paraphrase or expand passages, or cite 
facts to be found in the Rerum Rusticarum — Columella, 
Pliny, Palladius, Servius, Macrobius, St. Augustine, 
Isidore of Seville, etc. For the right spelling of proper 
names much assistance is given by Cicero, Caesar, and 
Horace, and by inscriptions. 



EXCURSUS II 363 

There is besides help to be gained from a method 
which, I think, has not been applied before to Varro. It 
consists in digesting and tabulating obvious corruptions 
in the text which can at once be corrected, and using 
the results for further emendation. As a case in point : 
there are in these books several examples of such a 
phrase as ** duodena milia sestertia," III, 17, 3, which 
does not seem to be any Latin for 12,000 sesterces. 
Several scholars suggested " sestertium," but both 
Schneider and Keil retained "sestertia" in the text, 
probably because the emendation lacked paleographical 
confirmation. But " sestertium " would in an early 
minuscule MS. most probably be written '* sestertiu "; 
in early Lombard and Franco-Lombard script the let- 
ters **a" and "u" are barely distinguishable, and on 
turning to our table of usual corruptions we find that the 
confusion between the two letters is of constant occur- 
rence in the text, while in many cases the line above a 
vowel, which stands for ** m " or " n " is frequently neg- 
lected. It is then hardly possible to doubt that the scribe 
found "sestertio," in his text, neglected the stroke above 
the " u," and for the latter wrote ** a." 

This method, as will be seen, I have used freely in the 
emendations which have been attempted in the com- 
mentary and in Excursus III. 



j 



EXCURSUS III 

CRITICAL NOTES AND SUGGESTIONS 

Quae Coniecturae meae turn mihi placebunt cum a doctioribus 
viris probari audiam. — ViCTORius. 

I, 13, I. ** Fructus, ut est vinum et oleum, loco piano 
in cellis, item ut vasa vinaria et olearia potius faciendum : 
aridus, ut est faba et faenum in tabulatis." Keil (p. 45) 
simply expunges *' ut," and gives a wholly unsatisfactory 
explanation of the untranslatable ''potius." Pontedera 
(Curae Secundae) suggests '* ubi " instead of ** ut," and 
''possint esse" for "potius." But it is difficult to see 
how ''potius" could have arisen from " possint esse." 
Instead of the latter I would propose " ponas." In early 
minuscule MSS. it is often difficult to discriminate be- 
tween "ti" and "n" (cf. II, i, 15, where " statim " is 
found in the Archetype for the obvious " sanum " — in 
II, 2, 16 "n" becomes in the Archetype "ti"), and in 
early Lombard script the word itself — "potius" — looks 
extremely like " ponus " or "ponas." As I have shown 
in Excursus II "a" and "u" are very frequently con- 
fused in these books, e,g.^ " -um " for "-am" (passim)^ 
"putulas" for " patulas " (II, 2, 11), etc. Again " ut " 
or "uti" is frequently found for original "ubi" (cf. I, 
6, 2, III, 6, 15). 

Varro appears to mention three places (i), "Cellae," 
where liquid produce, such as wine and oil, was stored 

364 



EXCURSUS III 365 

in '*dolia"; (2) a place — the ''torcular" or *'forus 
v'inarius et olearius " — for the plant needed for the mak- 
ing of wine and oil; and (3) barns for dry produce. 
Columella, in a chapter (I, 6, 9) which is little else than 
an elegant paraphrase of Varro, mentions these three 
places together: ** Pars autem fructuaria dividitur in 
cellam oleariam, torculariam, cellam vinariam," etc. 
The passage would read, as amended: ** Fructus, ut 
est vinum et oleum, loco piano in cellis (item uhi vasa 
vinaria et olearia ponas faciendum) : aridus ut est faba 
et faenum in tabulatis." 

^» ^3» 3* "Cohortes in fundo magno duae aptiores : 
una ut interdius compluvium habeat lacum ubi aqua 
saliat, qui intra stylobatas cum velit sit semipiscina." 

Keil (p. 47) makes "compluvium" an adjective — of 
which no other example is to be found — and interprets 
thus: ** Compluvium autem lacum dicit in quem interdiu 
canalibus aqua . . . ducitur." But it is obvious that no- 
thing like this is contained in or implied by the text, for 
'* compluvium " must either be the familiar noun or 
'* compluvium lacum " mean a tank or pond in which 
rain collects. In either case ** interdius" seems to be 
inadmissible and the word ** saliat " inappropriate. 

In Chapter XI Varro had said that the villa should 
possess a spring within its precincts, or that water 
should flow into it all the year round ; but that if there 
were no *Mive" water a **lacus sub dio" should be 
made for the cattle; and Palladius (I, 31) states that 
there should be two "piscinae," which could be filled 
**aut fonte aut imbre." It seems possible that Varro 
alludes in the text to the two alternatives: meaning 
that when there was no "aqua viva," 1.^., spring or 
stream, a "compluvium " was to be employed from which 



366 VARRO ON FARMING 

the rain water would fall into an '* impluvium," which 
might be used as a pond — the *Macus sub dio " of 
Chapter XI — while, if running water were at hand (for 
* ' aqua saliens " opposed to ' ' putei " or ' ' fontes, " cf. Pliny, 
Ep., ii, 17, 25), it was to be directed into a pond in the 
yard, probably into the portico where it would form a 
semi-piscinay having the sty lobates on two sides (2i piscina 
had usually masonry on all four sides). I suggest there- 
fore: " Cohortes in fundo magno duae aptiores: una ut 
interius (having inside it) compluvium habeat, aut lacumj 
ubi aqua saliat quae (Schneider) intra stylobatas cum 
venit (Merula, approved by Keil) sit semipiscina." One 
may regard the omission of '*aut" as a case of haplo- 
graphy, of which we have many examples in these books. 
*' Qui " improperly written for " quae " occurs very many 
times (cf. II, i, 27, etc.). 

I, 15, I. " Praeterea sine saeptis fines praedii sationis 
notis arborum tutiores fiunt." Schneider, followed by 
Keil, cuts the knot by deleting '* notis " and writing ** sa- 
tione " for "sationis." If the text may not stand — and 
I do not feel sure that it may not — ** farm boundaries if 
unfenced are made safer by the indications given by the 
sowing of trees," though the double genitive is terribly 
harsh, perhaps might be read: '* Praeterea sine saeptis 
fines praedii, satione si noti (or notati), tutiores fiunt. 
For the form of the expression ** si noti " cf. I, 13, i : ** Si 
fessi opere "; II, 4, 20, " si in acervo positum "; III, 5, 2, 
'* si enim late ibi diffusa aqua . . . bibitur inutilius." 

I, 10, 2. *' Is modus acnua latine appellatur." The 
use of the word " latine " here and in II, 1,5, "in Samo- 
thrace Caprarum quas latine rotas appellant," is perhaps 
due to the ignorance of the scribe. Pontedera (Cur. 
Sec.) points out that Varro's usual formula in such cases 



EXCURSUS III 367 

is '' nostri appellant," " a nostris appellatur." With re- 
gard to the first passage Columella (v, i, 5) has: ** Sed 
hunc actum provinciae Baeticae rustic! acnuam vocant," 
and compares the Baetic " acnua " with the Gallic " are- 
pennis" (Fr. arpent). Columella's uncle, on whose au- 
thority the statement is made, was a native of Gades, 
and had probably first-hand knowledge of the fact. 
Varro also, who once stayed for a long time in Spain 
(cf. Ill, 12, 6), was likely to know the local term. Per- 
haps "Baetice" was originally written and *Matine" 
put instead of it by a scribe who did not understand the 
former word. In II, i, 19 "b" and *M" are confused, 
"Obsippo" for *'01isippo." In the second passage, 
"in Samothrace caprarum quas latine rotas appellant," 
I would adopt Turnebus's emendation approved by Sca- 
liger — "platycerotas" (irXaT-i/ice'pwrac), cf. Pliny, xi, 37. 
A few lines before the copyist had written **la" for 
♦ ' pla " ( • ' laciditatem " instead of ' * placiditatem "). Per- 
haps he read here " latyce rotas," and not knowing 
what to do with " latyce " wrote instead a word he did 
know — ** latine." 

II, I, I. ** Insta an quid ille, quae coeperat hie dis- 
serere quae esset origo, quae dignitas, quae ars cum f 
poetam sesum visere venissemus ne medici adventus 
nos inredisset." The copyist of the earlier part of this 
book seems to have been extremely unintelligent, not 
in the least understanding what he was copying ; any 
vowel is written by him for any other, letters and whole 
syllables are omitted or interpolated, and letters are often 
absurdly grouped — for instance, nine lines further on, for 
the obvious "pecuariae athletae remuneremini nos," the 
Archetype has ** pecuariathietae remune remininos." So 
perhaps some boldness in emendation is permissible. 



V 



368 VARRO ON FARMING 

Most of the passage above was easily and soon cor- 
-rected. Obviously " insta" = '* ista," '*an quid" = 
''inquit," '*ne" = ''ni" (or "nisi— n"^"), and ''inre- 
disset " = perhaps '* impedisset "; but for " poetam se- 
sum " no convincing emendation has been proposed. 
Ursinus gave '' Paetum " (Aldus ** Petam "), " fessum " 
taking *' fessum " to mean " ill." But no example is to 
be found of the word having this meaning absolute. 
Scaliger proposed **ad portam vis (for *' vix ") e re," etc., 
which needs no comment. In Excursus I I have given 
reasons for supposing that the scene of these conversa- 
tions was at some port in or near Epirus. I would 
therefore propose — with extreme diffidence — to read as 
follows: " Ista, inquit ille, quae coeperat hie disserere 
. . . cum eum, portum ingressum, visere venissemus 
ni medici adventus," etc. One would then take ** ni . . . 
impedisset" closely with "coeperat disserere," trans- 
lating: " Precisely, answered Cossinius, I mean the dis- 
course which Varro here was beginning . . . when 
we had come to call on him after he had entered the 
harbour (Cassiope or Corcyra), only the arrival of the 
doctor prevented our further conversation." The omis- 
sion of *' eum " might be explained as a case of haplo- 
graphy. "Portum" would be written " portu/' while 
the "in" of "ingressum" might have been taken (as 
often) for "m"; but how " sesum " could have arisen 
from "gressum" I do not pretend to explain — unless 
one may assume that "g" was simply omitted. In II, 
2, 12, " inigere est utile " (Ursinus) is given by all editors 
for the meaningless reading of the Archetype " interest 
utile." The general sense seems here to compel the 
correction, and "i" and "t" are frequently confused ; 
but how is the "g" to be justified? If one might 



EXCURSUS III 369 

assume that ** ingressum " was abbreviated, the diffi- 
culty would be less, for *'gr" in the abbreviated '*in- 
g-reditur '* — as given by Prou in his dictionary of Latin 
abbreviations — is very like an '*S"; but I can find no 
indication anywhere as to the date of the MSS. in which 
this abbreviation is used. 

II, I, 21. ** Et quaequemque morbum curatio curandi 
sequi debeat." Keil deletes ** curandi." Jucundus's 
conjecture, ** ratio curandi," seems preferable. 

II, 4, 17. ** Fructuariam idoneam non esse." ** Fruc- 
tuariam " is probably a gloss explicative of ** idoneam." 

11,4, 17. ** In eorum petu ("pecu" in Victorius's semi- 
vet. MS.) scrofae bis die ut bibant curant." Victorius 
suggested "foetu"; Keil prefers '^partu," which suits 
"eorum" better. In this book *'p" and *'f" are 
several times confused (^.^., II, i, 17, ''fastor" for 
" pastor," etc.). So perhaps here ** in earum fetu " was 
originally written. Cf. Cicero, De Fin., iii, 19: **labo- 
rum bestiarum in fetu et in educatione." 

II, 5, I. **Tu vero, Murri, veni mi advocatus dum 
asses solvof Palibus, si postea a me repetant ut testi- 
monium perhibere possis." For "Palibus" Keil gives 
" Laribus," referring to a passage of Varro's cited by 
Nonius, to prove that asses were paid to the Lares. But 
this fact is stated by Varro only in relation to newly 
married brides. Aldus conjectures ** Palilibus." It is 
nearly certain that these conversations took place at the 
Palilia, and probably that the place was an "aedes 
Palis" (cf. Excursus I). Instead of '* Palibus" I would 
suggest ** Pali bis" — *'dum asses solve Pali, bis si 
postea a me repetant," etc. 

II, 5, 4. **Praeterea scio hunc esse . . . et huncf 
Plautium locutum esse latine quam Hirrium praetorem 

BB 



370 VARRO ON FARMING 

renuntiatum Romam in Senatum scriptum habemus." 
This passage seems hopelessly corrupt, no emendation 
in the least plausible has ever been proposed, and no 
story is related by Cicero, Livy, Pliny, Valerius Maxi- 
mus, Julius Obsequens, etc., about Plautius, Hirrius, 
or a speaking ox, which seems to apply even remotely 
to anything in this passage. But Pliny, I think, gives 
a clue. In viii, 45 (last sentence), he says: "Est fre- 
quens in prodigiis priscorum bovem locutum : quo nun- 
tiato Senatum sub dio haberi solitum." For this state- 
ment of Pliny I have been able to find no authority ; the 
commentators are unanimously silent with the exception 
of Dalecampius, who does but refer one to Alexander 
ab Alexandro (v, 7, suh fin.) — a contemporary of Lau- 
rentius Valla. Alexander repeats Pliny. And here again 
all the commentators are silent. It seems to me prob- 
able that this very passage of Varro is the authority 
used by Pliny — who never quotes Varro's exact words- 
and that Varro's actual words were: " Et hunc Plautum 
locutum esse latine, quo miro praetori [i.e.^ ' urbano,' 
cf. Suetonius, Claud., 22) nuntiato Romam, Senatum 
sub dio habemus " — ** And that this ' Plautus ' has been 
known to speak good Latin — on the announcement of 
which portent to the praetor at Rome we hold the Senate 
in the open air.'' The joke seems exactly in Varro's 
manner. Plautus was famous amongst the ancients for 
the excellence of his Latin, cf. Quintilian, x, i : '' Licet 
Varro dicat Musas Plautius sermone locuturas fuisse 
si latine loqui vellent," and on the other hand '' plautus " 
(flat-footed, cf. Festus, ad verbum) was an epithet ap- 
plied to the Umbrians, and the '' vasti Umbriae boves " 
(Col., vi, I, 2) were famous among cattle. It is to these 
that Varro alludes, II, 5, 10. 



EXCURSUS III 371 

For**Plautium"for *'Plautum" cf. II, 8, 2, "hinnius" 
for *' hinnus." As for the rest I imagine that the scribe 
for **quo miro" read **quam irQ," and remembering 
Hirrus already mentioned wrote *'Hirrum" or *'Hir- 
rium'* (of "h" interpolated there are numerous ex- 
amples in this book, *' hostia " for *' ostia," etc.), " nun- 
tiato" he read as **nuntiatu (nuntiatum) " — and **sub- 
dio " as ** scribtQ (scriptum)." The ** in " (** Romam in 
Senatum") is perhaps a case of dittography, "in" and 
**m" being frequently indistinguishable in Pre-Caro- 
lingian minusculae. 

II, 7, I. ** E quis feminas Q. Modius Equiculus 
etiam patri militari iuxta ac mares habere solebat." The 
words '* etiam patre militari" seem quite irrelevant. 
Ursinus conjectured "etiam in re militari" — which 
makes excellent sense. Keil first adopted this correc- 
tion, but rejected it afterwards, probably because of the 
difficulty of accounting for the corruption. "Etiam a 
parte" ("etia a parte" — the second "a" disappearing 
through haplography) is plausible. Pliny in a chapter 
(viii, 42 end) which owes much to Varro, mentions the 
fact that the Scythians preferred to use mares rather 
than horses for military purposes, " Scythae per bella 
feminis {t\e. equabus) uti malunt, quoniam urinam cursu 
non impedito reddant." Varro frequently uses "pars" 
in the sense of "section," "department," and "a" 
meaning "in respect of," cf. I, 7, 5, **a qua parte vel 
maxime bonus aut non bonus appellatur," and II, 2, 2, 
" quae ita ad aetate," " in respect of age." 

II, 7, 15. " Neque idem qui vectorios facere vult ad 
ephippium aut ad raedam quod ad rem militarem." I 
would insert "aut" after "vult," cf. the n6te to the 
passage in the Commentary. 



372 VARRO ON FARMING 

II, 9, i6. " Ita enim sunt adsiduiores quod cum altero 
idem fit acrior, et si alter videm fiter aeger est ne sine 
cane grex sit." In the first place it is difficult to under- 
stand Keil's objection to "idem" (for which he substi- 
tutes "item," saying "'idem' . . . non habet quo 
referatur)," for the turn of thought is quite Varronian. 
The same dog becomes another, much fiercer — when he 
has a mate. As for the rest many unhappy emendations 
have been made, while no one seems to have noticed 
the anacoluthon — harsh even for Varro — "quod ... fit 
acrior — et si . . . est, ne sine cane grex sit." " Est," I 
think, ought to be in the apodosis, where it is much 
needed — and the sentence might be written " et si 
alteruter fit aeger, est ut ne sine cane grex sit," "for 
so they stick better to work, for the same dog when he 
has a mate becomes fiercer, and if either of them falls ill, 
the flock need not be without a dog." "Est" would 
then be used as in Horace's "Est ut viro vir latius 
ordinet || arbusta," or as in II, i, 28, "est qui ex- 
pleas . . . lacunam." With " ut " inserted the Latin 
is, of course, normal, the " ne " negativing only the 
words "sine cane." In these books "ut" is omitted 
two or three times, cf. II, 11, i. III, 2, 16, etc., and 
Krumbiegel's index verborum at the end of Keil's 
"Editio Maior." 

For "videm" I have written "uter," but it may be 
simply an echo from the words "altero idem" preced- 
ing. The "er " in " fiter" is, perhaps, due to the scribes 
writing the " er" of " aeger" prematurely and neglect- 
ing to correct it. 

III, I, 10. "In tuis quoque litteris." For " tuis " I 
suggest "nitidis" (haplography). The passage is dis- 
cussed in the Commentary. 



EXCURSUS III 373 

III, 5, 5. "Contra hie aviarium, quae mortuae ibi 
sunt aves ut domino numerum reddat, solet ibidem ser- 
vare." Keil changes *'hic" to "hoc" and indicates a 
lacuna after "aviarium." It seems much simpler to 
write "aviarius." There is then a much needed subject 
for " solet," there is no need to alter the " hie " of the 
archetype, the sense is perfectly plain, and there is no 
need to assume a gap in the text. " Um " is sometimes 
mis-written for "us," cf. Ill, 16, 5, where " neque idem 
quod cera cibum " is found in the Archetype for the 
obvious "neque . . . cibus," and a little later in the 
same section " favum " for " favus." 

Ill, 5, 10. " quaad capitulum rutundum est " (so Keil). 
" Qua ad capitulum " should surely be written — for the 
sake of the sense and of the antithesis (" qua est quad- 
rata") — and this is the reading of the Archetype. 

Ill, 14, 3. " Et hunc (cibum) dum serpit non solum 
in area reperit sed etiam, si rivus non prohibet, parietes 
stantes invenit." Keil interprets thus: "Cochleae non 
solum cibum in area positum reperiunt, sed etiam stantes 
parietes cibi inveniendi causa ascendunt." This is no 
doubt what Varro means, but it is not contained in the 
text. Jucundus conjectured "in parietes," Ursinus "in 
pariete stante." Better, I believe, is "per parietes" for 
the omission of "per" may be explained as a case of 
haplography, and "invenit" has then its usual sense 
and governs " cibum." Schneider objected to " stantes " 
on the ground that all "parietes stant," but the word is 
used emphatically as Horace's "vides ut alta stet nive 
Candida II Soracte," and in antithesis to "area." The 
snail not only crawls about the " area," but even climbs 
the perpendicular walls. 

Ill, 16, 32. " Eximendorum favorum signum sumunt 



374 VARRO ON FARMING 

ex ipsis t viris alvos habeat nem c5germinant coniectura 
capiunt si intus faciunt bombum et cum intro eunt ac 
foras et si opercula aluum cum remoreissi favorum fora- 
mina obductavidentur membranis cum sint repleti melle." 
Scaliger's remark on this is ** Non est locus inquinatior 
isto, et sane eum emendandi omnem prorsus spem 
abieci " — and Victorius and Keil say much the same 
thing. Schneider rewrites the whole passage arbitrarily. 
I would suggest '' Signum eximendorum favorum 
sumunt ex ipsis (fures alvos habeatne an contra exter- 
minarit coniecturam capiunt si intus faciunt bombum et 
cum intro eunt et foras, trepidant) et opercula alvorum 
cum remoris (Keil) si favorum obducta videntur mem- 
branis — cum sunt repleti melle." 

The cumbrous parenthesis is characteristic of Varro 
in these books. As to *' fures" for "uiris," Varro (III, 
i6, 19) mentioned "fur" as a name given to drones, 
and the expulsion of them seems indicated by what 
follows. The copyist probably took the '* f " for " s " (a 
common mistake, cf. "sit" for "fit," etc.) and found he 
had already written " s " in " ipsis. " ' * Alvos " (nominative 
here) is frequently used by Columella and Pliny to 
signify the bees in the hive. For "nem" I have given 
" ne an." The corruption would be easy, as the MS. of 
which the Archetype was a copy had almost certainly the 
open a. The change of " cogerminarit " to "contra 
exterminarit " is violent — but "c" and "t" are fre- 
quently (seventeen times) confused in these books (cf. 
"torium" for "corium," II, 5, 8, etc.), and the scribe 
may have read the " t's " as "c's" ("contra," I find, was 
sometimes written con), and his eye may have jumped 
the letters between con and " cerminarit " (cf. " a(d)ver- 
tendum" for " animadvertendum," I, 12, 2). The result 



EXCURSUS III 375 

would be *' concerminarit," made more like a Latin word 
by the change of the second " c " to '' g." 

Columella (IX, 15, 3) uses '* exterminare " in this rela- 
tion: *' Hos quidem praecipiunt in totum exterminari 
oportere." In the phrase **et si favorum . . . cum re- 
moreissi" Keil deletes, I think, the wrong **si," for it 
is Varro's constant habit to place his conjunction as 
near the end of the phrase as possible. 

In the last clause **sunt" for '*sint" seems neces- 
sary. In these books they are perpetually confused. 

To the reading proposed support is given by Columella 
(IX, 15, 4) : *' Ergo cum rixam fucorum et apium saepius 
committi videris, adapertas alvos inspicies ut sive semi- 
pleni favi sint, differantur; sive iam liquore completi et 
superpositis ceris, tamquam operculis, obliti, deme- 
tantur" — and by Palladius Qune, cap. 7), "Item cum 
fucos a sedibus suis, qui sunt apes maiores, grandi in- 
tentione deturbant matura mella testantur." 

Ill, 17, 2. ** Ubi lymphae . . . ministrant." Keil 
writes ** lymphae " with a small initial letter in both edi- 
tions. It should be written with a capital. The ** Lym- 
phae " are contrasted with " Neptunus " farther down, 
and ** Lympha" is personified by Varro, I, i, 6 (** Lym- 
pham et Bonum Eventum "). 

Ill, 17, 3. " Hirrus . . . duodena milia sestertia 
capiebat." This ungrammatical ** sestertia" is found 
also III, 16, II, and III, 6, 6. I feel sure that in all three 
cases ** sestertium " (** sestertio ") should be written, for 
as I have already pointed out, nothing is commoner in 
these books than the confusion of *'a" and "u" 
(twenty-one times). 




cmswrcK press .- charles whittinoham and co 

TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON. " 




J 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



BioMed 



