
Class __J_)kJLL£_ 
Book -£___ 



Copyright N 



ro 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



he Friday Club 



MENUS 




A Cape Cod Cook Book 



1912 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE FRIDAY CLUB, 

YARMOUTH, 

MASSACHUSETTS. 



The Friday Club 



MENUS 




P < 9 



A Cape Cod Cook Book 



1912 



« — n 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE FRIDAY CLUB, 

YARMOUTH, 

MASSACHUSETTS. 



TX7I5 
FS7 



Dedicated to Tliose Friends 
of the Club Whose Loyalty 
has ever been an Inspiration. 



Copyright, 1912. 

The Friday Club, Inc., 

Yarmouth, Mass. 



The "Register" Press, 
Yarmouthport. 



'CI.A328811 



SOUPS. 



POTATO SOUP. 

One potato, two-thirds eup milk, one-fourth inch cube onion, 
two-thirds teaspoonful salt, one-ninth teaspoonful celery salt, one- 
eighth teaspoonful white pepper, one teaspoonful butter, one-half 
teaspoonful flour. Strain. Carrie H. Taylor. 

MOCK BISQUE. 

Heat one and one-half pints milk to the boiling point and set 
off to cool a little. 

Heat and strain one-half can tomatoes. Put back on the stove 
and put in butter size of English walnut, one teaspoon salt, one 
large spoon sugar. Boil and set back a minute. Put in two- 
thirds teaspoon soda. Turn in the milk and heat up, stirring 
constantly. Agnes Usher. 

ITALIAN SOUP. 

Boil one cup cold baked beans, or more, in a pint of water 
until they are like porridge. Strain and mix with one-half can 
strained tomatoes, piece of butter, great spoon sugar, little salt 
and pepper. Cook well together. If there is some pork in with 
the beans, so much the better. Agnes Usher. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Put piece of pork in kettle and fry; add chopped onions. 

3 



Then have potatoes all sliced thin, put in kettle with onion .and 
pork; cook until potatoes are soft, then put in the clams well 
chopped. Last put in clam water and one quart of milk and 
plenty of butter. Serve with crackers on top of chowder. 

B. T. H. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Put one pint of oysters in pan over fire. Add a good-sized 
piece of butter, a sprinkle of pepper and a little salt. Let cook 
until the edges of oysters curl up, then set on back part of 
stove. 

Put one quart of milk in double boiler. When hot (do not let 
it boil or it will surely curdle) add oysters and serve at once. 

Mrs. Alden Knowles. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

Fry out a slice of salt pork cut in cubes. Add eight potatoes 
and two small onions sliced. Cover with water and boil until 
potatoes are done. Add one pint of milk and one can of corn, 
and season with pepper and salt. 

4 



ENTREES. 



MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

One cup macaroni broken into inch pieces and cooked in three 
pints boiling salted water twenty minutes. Turn into a colander 
and pour over it cold water; drain. 

Make a sauce of one tablespoon each butter and flour and one 
and one-half cups hot milk; salt. Put a layer of grated cheese 
in bottom of bake dish, then a layer of macaroni and one of 
sauce, and so on until dish is full. Cover with fine crumbs and 
dots of butter. Bake until brown. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Two cups cold mashed potatoes free from lumps, two eggs 
beaten to a froth, one tablespoonful melted butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Form into croquettes, roll in beaten egg and 
cracker crumbs, and fry in hot fat. F. A. Colburn. 



SCALLOPED POTATOES AND ONIONS. 

Peel and slice six medium-sized potatoes and two medium-sized 
onions. Butter a deep dish, place in it a layer of onion and 
potatoes, sprinkle on salt and pepper and drop on bits of butter. 
Repeat the layers and turn over milk till the whole is nearly 
covered. Leila Nickerson. 

OMELETS. 

The first essential for a good omelet is an omelet pan, which 

7 



should be an ordinary-sized, flat, sheet-iron frying pan. After 
using, it should not be washed, but scoured with salt and wiped 
clean with a cloth. It is better to make several small omelets, 
of three or four eggs each, rather than one large one, for they 
are more easily handled and cook quicker, so are more apt to 
be tender. 

Break the eggs into a bowl; beat until broken only. Add to 
four eggs three tablespoonfuls of cream or four teaspoonfuls of 
warm water and one teaspoonful of butter. Put the pan over 
the fire, and when it is hot put in one teaspoonful of butter, 
tipping the pan that the butter may melt and run over it quickly. 
As soon as the butter is melted turn the eggs into the pan, shak- 
ing it gently to keep the eggs from cooking too rapidly on the 
bottom. As the lower part cooks, lift with a spatula, allowing 
the uncooked upper portion to run onto the hot pan. When the 
omelet is of a soft, creamy consistency, season with salt and 
pepper, tip the pan, slip the knife under the omelet and care- 
fully roll it to the center. Let it cook a moment longer to 
brown. Should it not brown quickly, add a little butter, letting 
it run under the omelet. Turn out on a hot dish and serve at 
once or not at all. 

PARSLEY OMELET. Add one teaspoonful of finely-chopped 
parsley just before the omelet is turned or at the same time the 
seasoning is added. 

GREEN OMELET. Mix one teaspoonful of finely-chopped 
parsley with the egg, and only slightly brown the surface of the 
omelet. 

HAM OMELET. Add two tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped 
cooked ham well spread over the surface before turning the 
omelet. 

8 



FISH. 



SCALLOPED CLAMS. 

Chop one quart of clams, and to one quart of clams use nearly 
a pound of crackers. Roll the crackers fine, stir in with the 
clams, then add pepper, salt and about one-half pound of butter 
cut in small pieces. Add a little of the clam water. Put the 
batter in a buttered dish and sprinkle the top with cracker 
crumbs and bits of butter. Pour over milk enough to moisten 
the whole and let stand till ready to bake. Bake about thirty 
minutes in a hot oven. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 

SCALLOPED FISH. 

Put four or five pounds of fresh cod or white fish on to boil 
in salted water. When cooked drain off water and take out all 
bones and skin. Pick fish in small pieces. Put three pints of 
milk over fire to heat. Take one-half cup of flour and dissolve 
lumps in cold milk, add to hot milk and cook until it thickens. 
Season with salt, pepper, celery salt and butter. Cut up green 
celery if you have it. Let cook, and butter a baking dish, put 
in a layer of white sauce and a layer of fish and so on until 
dish is filled. Sprinkle rolled cracker crumbs on top, add bits 
of butter and brown in oven. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One can salmon minced fine, one and one-half cups of bread 

11 



crumbs, four tablespoons of milk, piece of butter size of an egg, 
little salt, mace and cayenne pepper, two eggs. Mix all to- 
gether fine, roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs. Fry in deep 
fat. Leila Nickerson. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon, drain, remove skin and bones, and mince fine. 

One small cup bread crumbs boiled in one small cup of milk. 
Add to this two eggs well beaten, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. Add the minced salmon and 
steam one hour. 

WHITE SAUCE. One cup of milk, butter size of walnut and 
one tablespoonful of flour, salt to taste. Caroline R. Pulsifer. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. 

One tablespoonful butter, one cup milk or white stock, one 
tablespoonful flour, salt and pepper to taste. To the above add 
two hard boiled eggs cut in slices, and one tablespoon chopped 
parsley. 

12 



MEATS. 



BOIL FOUR POUNDS HAM. 

Put on at nine o'clock in cold water. Change the water every 
hour. When you change it at eleven put in one tablespoonful 
vinegar. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One pint chicken chopped fine, one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
half teaspoonful celery salt, one-fourth teaspoonful cayenne pep- 
per, one teaspoonful white pepper, few drops onion juice, one 
teaspoonful chopped parsley. Mix with a cupful cream sauce, 
cool and shape. Dip in egg. Roll in crumbs. Fry in hot fat 
two minutes. Fish and rice croquettes are made in the same 
way. 

POT ROAST. 

Three pounds or so lower round steak. At about 7 a. m. fry 
out some salt pork or beef fat; when hot put the meat in and 
brown it well on both sides. Then place meat in kettle on rest 
with a little water. Cut up quite a bit of onion, parsley, one- 
half bayleaf sprig, thyme and fry in the fat, then remove the 
kettle, dredge the fat well with flour, let it brown a little, pour 
in some water and put all in the kettle and boil moderately until 
noon. Serve as a roast. Add water to gravy, thicken if neces- 
sary. Cook with water three-fourths side of meat. Little water 
makes a richer gravy. 



HAM CROQUETTES. 

One cup ground ham, one-half cup mashed potatoes, one egg 
well beaten. Season. Drop in egg, then roll in bread crumbs. 

Hinckley. 

CASSEROLE "WITH RICE. 

Line a mold with freshly cooked rice, fill center with cupful 
of finely chopped meat mixed with one egg, one rolled cracker, 
one teaspoonful salt and one-half saltspoonful pepper. Cover 
with rice and steam for one and one-half hours. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

TOMATO SAUCE. One can tomato soup, one can milk, two 
teaspoonfuls cornstarch, piece of butter size of egg. Mix all to- 
gether and cook in double boiler until it thickens slightly. 

Hannah A. Knowles. 

BEEF LOAF. 

One and one-half pounds round steak chopped, four crackers 
rolled fine, butter size of an egg, one tablespoon salt, one-half 
teaspoonful pepper (scant), one egg, very little milk. Mix well, 
put in deep tin. One can tomato soup, one cup water; pour 
over all. Bake one hour. 

TURKEY DRESSING. 

Chop one inch cube of pork with slice of onion very fine. 
Soak about three-fourths pound of crackers till soft. Squeeze 
dry and chop. Add one egg beaten, one-third to one-half cup 
melted butter, one-half to one teaspoon salt, two heaping tea- 
spoons Bell's dressing. Then roll enough dry crackers to make 
right consistency. S. "W. T. 

16 



SALADS. 



EGG SALAD I. 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in half and place them on lettuce 
leaves, and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

EGG SALAD II. 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves cross-wise. Remove yolks 
and mash them with a fork. Add a pinch of mustard, a little 
salt and pepper and moisten with oil or butter, make into balls 
and refill whites. Arrange on lettuce and serve with either oil 
or cooked dressing. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil potatoes until tender, drain off water and cut in dice 
pieces. Mix with salad dressing and crowd into bowl. Turn 
on platter so that it keeps its shape, and decorate as follows: 
About the molded potato put slices of beet to extend one-third 
of the way to top, next put about mold sliced white of egg to 
reach to one-third of top, cover rest of mold with yellow of egg 
put through ricer. Around bottom and between each row of 
decoration put sprigs of parsley. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Two eggs (beaten), three tsp. sugar, one tsp. mustard, one 

19 



tsp. salt, one-half cup vinegar, one-half cup melted butter. Beat 
all together and cook over hot water. H. A. Knowles. 

FISH AND MACARONI SALAD. 

Equal parts any boiled white fish and macaroni. Mix with 
salad dressing and garnish with sliced hard-boiled egg and pars- 
ley. H. A. Knowles. 

BANANA AND NUT SALAD. 

Cut bananas in half the long way, cover with chopped nuts 
and spoonful of dressing. 

DRESSING. Two eggs (beaten), three tsp. sugar, one tsp. 
salt, one-half tsp. mustard, one-fourth cup vinegar, one-fourth 
cup cold water, one-half cup melted butter. Beat together and 
cook over hot water. When cold beat in one-half cup of cream. 

H. A. Knowles. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Cut into cubes a cupful of tart apples; cut one cup celery in 

small pieces; add one tablespoon lemon juice and one-half cup 

English walnuts broken fine. Mix with salad dressing and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One small cabbage chopped, two teaspoons salt, two teaspoons 
mustard, two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons sweet cream, 
one cup vinegar, two eggs. Beat all together and cook to a 
cream in double boiler. While still warm pour over the chopped 
cabbage. 

20 



SALAD DRESSING. 

Two teaspoonfuls mustard, two eggs, six tablespoonfuls vine- 
gar, one tablespoonful sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, six table- 
spoonfuls milk, pinch of salt. Dissolve mustard in a little hot 
water; add eggs, vinegar and sugar and cook till it thickens, 
then put in butter and when quite cool add milk. 

Alice H. Taylor. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs, one pint oil, one half cup vinegar, small 
teaspoonful salt, teaspoonful sugar, teaspoonful mustard. Mix 
yolks of eggs with mustard, salt and sugar, then add first the oil 
and then vinegar until used up. Beat constantly with an egg 
beater. B. T. IT. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon mustard, one small tea- 
spoon salt, three or four tablespoons butter or oil. Stir per- 
fectly smooth, then add three well beaten eggs. To this add 
one-half cup hot vinegar, one cup milk or cream. Cook in 
double boiler, stirring constantly. S. W. T. 

SALAD CREAM. 

Three teaspoons mustard, six teaspoons sugar, salt, six eggs, 
six tablespoons vinegar, one-half cup butter, one and one-half 
cups milk. Hinckleys. 

21 



BREAD, MUFFINS, ETC. 



RYE MUFFINS. 

Two cups of rye, one cup flour, one egg, butter size of an egg, 
one-half cup molasses, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one of 
soda, one and one-half cups sweet milk. Lilla M. Eldridge. 

MUFFINS. 

One beaten egg, one-half cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls shorten- 
ing, two cups milk, four cups flour, four level teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder sifted with flour, and one level teaspoon salt. Mix 
in order given and bake in muffin tins. H. A. Knowles. 



MUFFINS. 

One cup milk, two cups flour, one egg, one tablespoon sugar, 
a small piece of butter, two teaspoons baking powder, salt. 

Lilla Eldridge. 

POP-OVERS. 

Four cups of flour, four cups of milk, four eggs, piece of 
butter. Have the muffin tins hot when the batter is put in. 

Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

One heaping cup of cold boiled rice, one heaping cup of flour, 

23 



two eggs, two full teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-fourth cup 
sugar, one teaspoonful butter, salt, milk to make stiff batter. 
Omit butter if milk is rich. Carrie D. Bray. 

CORNCAKE. 

One cup Indian meal, one-half cup flour, heaping teaspoonful 
baking powder, one egg, one cup milk, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
one teaspoonful salt. Carrie H. Taylor. 

EGG BISCUITS. 

Sift a pint and a half of flour, add a teaspoon of salt, a table- 
spoon of sugar, two beaten eggs, a tablespoon of lard, and half 
a pint of sweet milk, to which has been added a teaspoon of 
cream tartar and a half teaspoon of soda. Work to a smooth 
dough, roll half an inch thick, cut out in biscuits, rub over with 
milk, lay on buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. 

Lilla Eldridge. 

CORNBREAD. 

One cup yellow corn meal, one cup flour, two tablespoons 
sugar, one teaspoon butter, two teaspoons baking powder. Mix 
with milk. 

BRAN BREAD. 

Two cups Educator bran, two cups entire wheat flour, four 
level teaspoonfuls baking powder. Mix to a light dough with 
milk and bake in biscuit. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

24 



GRAHAM BREAD. 



Two cups graham flour, one cup white flour, sifted with two 
teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda, one-half cup 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls molasses. Mix with milk and hake 
in one loaf in moderate oven. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



TWENTY-MINUTE BREAD. 



Four cups flour, four level teaspoons baking powder, one level 
teaspoon salt, one-half cup sugar sifted together, two tablespoons 
shortening; mix with two cups milk, then add one beaten egg 
and one-half cup chopped English walnuts. Put in pan and let 
rise for twenty minutes. Bake in moderate oven forty-five 
minutes. H. A. Knowles. 



BROWN LOAF. 

One cup brown sugar, two eggs, one-half cup molasses, three 
cups sour milk, one and one-half cups white flour, two teaspoons 
salt, four cups graham flour, two teaspoons soda sifted with 
white flour. Bake one hour. Makes two loaves. 

Leila Nickerson. 



BROWN BREAD. 

One cup flour, one cup corn meal, one cup rye meal, one cup 
molasses, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, salt. Steam 
three hours. Lilla Eldridge. 



BROWN BREAD. 

One cup Indian meal, three-fourths cup rye meal, one eup 
graham meal, one teaspoon soda, one-half cup molasses, two cups 
milk. S. W. T. 

or. 



ENTIRE WHEAT BROWN BREAD. 

Two level eups of entire wheat flour, two-thirds cup of 
molasses, one cup of milk, one cup of raisins chopped, one level 
teaspoon of soda dissolved in one-half cup of hot water, teaspoon 
of salt. Steam three or four hours. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



YEAST BREAD. 

One quart flour, one tablespoonful lard worked into the flour, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-fourth cup potato yeast, one-half 
pint milk scalded; let get cool, then put in one cup warm water. 
Let rise over night. In the morning put in the pan and let rise 
again. Bake one hour. Emma C. Baker. 

SOUR MILK BROWN BREAD. 

One cup corn meal, one cup rye meal, one cup graham meal, 
one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda, one-half cup molasses, one 
cup raisins, one pint sour milk. Steam three hours. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. 

One quart of entire wheat flour, one quart of bread flour, 
one yeast cake, one and one-half pints of liquid (part milk and 
part water or all water) scald milk and cool, one-fourth cup of 
molasses, salt, one heaping tablespoon of lard. Let rise very 
light. Add one-half cup of chopped walnut meats in the morn- 
ing if nut bread is desired. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 

SOUR MILK BREAD. 

One quart flour, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda. If milk 
is real sour use more soda. Sour milk enough to make it as stiff 
as possible. Hinckleys. 

26 



APPLE ROLLS. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one egg, one cup 
milk, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one cup 
chopped apples, one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake 20 minutes. 

Emma C. Baker. 



SPIDER JOHNNYCAKE. 

Mix together one and two-thirds cups Indian meal, one-third 
cup flour, one teaspoon salt, one-half cup sugar. Mix one cup 
sweet milk, one cup sour milk, one egg, one teaspoon soda. 

Mix the two lots thoroughly, turn into a thoroughly heated 
and buttered iron spider. Turn over the top one cup sweet milk. 
Bake in moderately hot oven one-half hour. Agnes Usher. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLECAKES. 

One egg, two cups sour milk (if too sour add little sweet milk) 
two teaspoonfuls soda, salt, flour enough to make a good batter. 
Fry. Carrie H. Taylor. 

RYE PANCAKES. 

One pint sour milk, three cups rye meal, one cup flour, one- 
half cup molasses, one small teaspoon soda, one small teaspoon 
salt, one egg. Drop a little in hot fat and fry till done. 

FRITTERS. 

One pint flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one-third cup 
sugar, one egg, milk enough to make a thin batter. This batter 
may be used for fruit, corn, clams, etc. Drop from a spoon into 
deep fat. 

27 



FRENCH TOAST. 

Beat two eggs slightly. Add a little salt, two tablespoone of 
sugar and one cup of milk. Put this in a shallow dish and soak 
slices of bread in mixture. Cook in a well-buttered spider and 
brown on both sides. Serve with butter. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, two desertspoonfuls melted butter, one egg, one 
cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, pinch of salt, nutmeg and 
ginger. Flour to roll. F. A. Colburn. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One and one-third cups sugar, two eggs, little salt, one-half 
nutmeg, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream of tartar, one 
cup milk, four teaspoons hot lard, flour to roll. 

Leila Nickerson. 

28 



SANDWICHES. 



CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One cup cheese grated, one-half cup butter, one-fourth cup 
cream. Work together until smooth and creamy. Season to 
taste and spread between very thin slices of buttered bread. 

Mrs. E. E. Colburn. 



SPTCED CHEESE. 

One-half pound Young America cheese, four tablespoons cream, 
five tablespoons sherry, two tablespoons butter, one teaspoon 
mustard, salt, and one-half paprica and beat fifteen minutes with 
fork For sandwiches. H. M. R. 



HAM. 

Allow one-third fat to two-thirds lean. Chop as fine as pos- 
sible and to each quart allow one-half tablespoonful of white 
sugar, one tablespoonful of dry mustard, one saltspoonful of 
cayenne pepper and one-half cup vinegar. Carrie D. Bray. 

EGG. 

Mash or press through a potato ricer three hard-boiled eggs. 
Season with one-half teaspoonful melted butter, or moisten with 
thick mayonnaise. Spread between thinly sliced bread, sprinkle 
with minced olives, parsley or cress, put together and press 
slightly. Carrie D. Bray. 

31 



FIG. 

One cup finely chopped figs, one-third cup sugar, one-third 
cup boiling water, one tablespoonful juice. Mix and cook until 
right to spread. Carrie D. Bray. 

PEANUT BUTTER. 

One-half cup peanut butter, one-half cup currant jelly. Beat 
until a smooth paste is formed, then spread. Carrie D. Bray. 

RAISIN AND WALNUT. 

One-half cup chopped raisins, one-half cup English walnuts, 
one-third cup sugar, one-half cup boiling water. Cook until a 
thick paste is formed, then add one tablespoonful lemon juice. 

Carrie D. Bray. 



DATE AND WALNUT. 

Equal measures of date and walnut meat chopped fine and 
mixed with plain or whipped cream. Spread between entire 
wheat bread, buttered. C. D. Bray. 

32 



CAKE 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of 
cold water, two cups of flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, 
pinch of salt, teaspoon of vanilla. Beat yolks of eggs, then add 
sugar and beat till creamy. Then add water, then flour and bak- 
ing powder, and last of all the well beaten whites of the eggs. 
Bake in a slow oven. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoonful 
vinegar, pinch of salt. Alice H. Taylor. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, flavor with lemon 
juice or vanilla. Beat yolks thoroughly, add sugar and flavor- 
ing, then fold in lightly the whites beaten dry and the flour. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, two tablespoons of milk, pinch of salt. 
Cream yolks of eggs and sugar together. Beat whites stiff with 
the salt added and stir into the yolks. Add tlour, baking pow- 
der and milk. Bake in loaf or in cream pie tins. 

Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



PLAIN CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, salt, three eggs beaten 

separately, one cup flour. Flavor. M. L. H. 

SIX EGG ANGEL CAKE. 

Six eggs (whites) or five with a tablespoonful of cold water, 
salt, three-fourths cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, one-half cup flour. Flavor. M. L. H. 



WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of three eggs beaten, one cup sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

FROSTING. Yolks of three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, 
juice of an orange or other flavoring. Mrs Gorham Pulsifer. 

PLAIN CAKE FOR FILLING OR FROSTING. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, one and one-half cups flour. Bake for one or two layers. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



SPANISH CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one and 
three-fourths cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, two 
eggs. Add whites last. One teaspoonful cinnamon. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, one and one-half cups powdered sugar, 
one cup flour with a teaspoonful cream tartar, salt. Flavor. 

36 



LEMON COCOANUT CAKE. 

Cream one-third cup of butter. Add gradually one cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of milk. Mix and add one and three-fourths 
cups of flour, two and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Add whites of three eggs well beaten. Bake 25 minutes. Look 
into oven often. 

FROSTING. Mix .juice and grated rind of one lemon with one 
cup of powdered sugar and the yolks of two eggs slightly 
beaten. Cook ten minutes in double boiler, stirring continually. 
Then add one cup of shredded cocoanut and spread. 

Caroline R. Pulsif or. 



FEATHER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, three tablespoons of butter, two cups 
flour, one cup of milk, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one tea- 
spoon soda, salt. Lilla Eldridge. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, whites 
of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful 
soda, two cups flour. Beat the whites but not stiff. 

ICING AND FILLING. Two cups sugar, one-half cup cold 
water; boil together fifteen minutes. Whites of two eggs 
beaten stiff, teaspoonful vanilla. Pour sugar into beaten whites 
and beat together. Emma C. Baker. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup butter, one heaping tea- 
spoonful baking powder, one cup milk, vanilla flavoring, one, 
and one-half cups flour, three squares of chocolate. Cream sugar 
and butter together, add the well-beaten eggs, then milk and 
flour. Add melted chocolate, flavor and bake in quite hot oven. 

For frosting use two cups confectioner's sugar, one tablespoon 
milk and one-fourth cup melted butter. B. T. II. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, piece butter size of an egg, two eggs, one-half 
cup sour milk with one-half teaspoon soda, one cup flour with 
one teaspoon baking powder, two squares melted chocolate. 

H. M. R. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour. Beat yolks till light, 
add sugar, two tablespoons of water, pinch salt. Sift one tea- 
spoon baking powder in flour, add gradually. Last fold in 
whites. Bake in a long shallow tin, turn out on a clean towel, 
spread with jelly and roll up. L. M. Eldridge. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, one and one-half cups flour, two and one-half teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one teaspoonful vanilla, two squares melted choc- 
olate. Bake in moderate oven forty minutes. 

Mrs. Gorham Pulsifer. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one-half cup 
milk, one and one-half cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons 
baking powder, one-half teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves, allspice, 
one-half cup raisins, nuts, citron. S. W. T. 

CORNSTARCH CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, creamed; one-half cup 
cornstarch, one cup flour, one-half cup milk, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder. Add whites of three eggs beaten. S. W. T. 

38 



FRUIT CAKE. 



One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, salt, one-half 
cup cream, one-half cup molasses, two eggs, three cups ilour, 
two cups fruit, one teaspoonful soda, spice as desired. 

A. G. H. 



EVERYBODY'S CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, salt, 
two cups flour, three eggs beaten separately, one teaspooiifiu 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda. Flavor. A. O. H. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, yolks of five and whites of four eggs, one- 
half cup cold water, two cups flour, one teaspoorful cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoonful soda, juice and grated rind of one 
orange. Bake in three layers. 

FROSTING. Whites of one egg and juice and grated rind of 
one orange, powdered sugar. Emma C. Baker. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Yolks ten eggs, one whole egg, one and one-half cups sugar, 
salt, three-eights cup butter, three-fourths cup milk, three tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, two and one-fourth cups flour. Bake 
in round tins. 

Put together with orange frosting. Juice of one-half orange, 
one teaspoon lemon juice and confectioner's sugar to spread. 

A. G. H. 



SI 'ICE CAKE. 

Two eggs beaten together, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of 

30 



baking powder, one square of chocolate melted in the butter, 
spice, one cup of raisins chopped fine, grated orange peel to 
taste. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



MOCHA CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup flour, two tablespoons 
of strong cold coffee, two teaspoons of baking powder. Cream 
yolks and sugar, add coffee, beat whites stiff and cut into yolk, 
add flour and baking powder. Bake in "Washington pie tins. 

Split and fill with one pint of cream beaten stiff and flavored 
with two tablespoons of strong cold coffee and sweetened to taste. 
Frost with powdered sugar wet with cold coffee or use coffee 
extract. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



SOUR MILK CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one and one-half 
cups sour milk, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in milk, three cups 
flour. Add spice, raisins and nuts to taste. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

Three cups dried apples, two cups molasses, one teaspoonful 
soda, one cup brown sugar, three eggs, one cup butter, four cups 
(scant) flour. Soak apples over night and in the morning stew 
in one cup of the molasses. Add with raisins and citron to the 
cake batter when mixed. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



CREAM CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, three 
tablespoons cold water, one and one-half teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Beat well. Bake in two layer cake pans and split when 
hot. 

40 



CREAM. Three-fourths pint milk, one-half cup sugar, butter 
size walnut, one tablespoon cornstarch, flavor with vanilla. 
This makes a fine chocolate cake. Mattie M. Lasbury. 

FIG CAKE. 

One cup sugar, butter size of large egg, three-fourths cup milk, 
one egg also one yolk, two even teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one teaspoonful vanilla, two even cups flour. Bake in two lay- 
ers. 

FILLING. One-half pound figs chopped, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half scant cup water. Cook. Last of all add beaten white of 
one egg. Cook a minute. Cover top with orange and lemon 
frosting. Carrie D. Bray. 

CREAM CAKES. 

One cupful of water and one-half cupful of butter boiled to- 
gether. While boiling add one cupful of flour. When cool add 
three eggs not beaten. Stir to a cream and drop on buttered 
tins. Bake in a quick oven. 

CREAM. One cupful of milk, one-half cupful of sugar, one 
egg, three tablespoons of flour. Cook until it thickens and 
flavor to taste. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 

COCO AN UT OR WALNUT CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, yolks of three eggs, one- 
half cup milk, whites of two eggs, one and two-thirds cup bread 
flour or one and three-fourths cups pastry flour, two and one- 
half teaspoonfuls baking powder, three-fourths cup walnut moat 
broken in pieces or three-fourths cup cocoanut. Bake forty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. Carrie D. Bray. 

II 



COFFEE CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup cof- 
fee, one and three-fourths cups flour, two tablespoonfuls molasses, 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, chopped raisins 
and nuts. Alice H. Taylor. 



POUND CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of butter, three cups sugar, six eggs 
beaten separately, one cup milk, four and one-half cups flour, 
one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar. This makes two 
loaves. Emma C. Baker. 



LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

One cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, three and one-half cup- 
fuls flour, one cupful sweet milk, the whites of six eggs, two 
level teaspoonfuls of baking powder and one teaspoonful rose 
water. Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beating con- 
tinuously, then the milk and flavoring; next the flour, into 
which the baking powder has been sifted, and lastly the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs, which should be folded lightly into 
the dough. Bake in three layer pans in an oven that is hotter 
than it would have to be for loaf cake. 

FILLING. Dissolve three cupfuls granulated sugar in one cup- 
ful boiling water; cook it until it will thread, then pour it over 
the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, stirring constantly. To 
this icing add one cupful of chopped raisins, one cupful chopped 
nut meats (pecans preferred) and five figs cut in very thin 
strips. With this ice both the top and sides of the cake and 
between the lavers. Emma C. Baker. 



SILVER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, into which has 
been sifted one rounding teaspoon baking powder. Then into a 

42 



cup put whites of two eggs, fill the cup half full of butter and 
then fill it full of milk, the three ingredients making the cup 
full. Now put all in a bowl and beat five minutes. 

Lilla M. Eldridge. 



JELLY ROLL. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon saleratus. Bake in a shallow tin. 
Spread with jelly and roll when hot. Agnes Usher. 

43 



FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS. 



ORANGE FROSTING. 

One egg yolk, three tablespoonfuls of orange juice, one tea- 
spoonful lemon juice, confectionery sugar ta spread. A. G. H. 

BROWN SUGAR FROSTING. 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup water. Boil until it 
strings, then mix with the beaten white of an egg. A. G. II. 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 

Boil one-half cup sugar and one-fourth cup water until it 
threads. Pour into this syrup the beaten white of one egg and 
one-fourth pound marshmallows cut into fine pieces. Beat until 
melted and frosting thick enough to spread. S. W. T. 

CREAM FOR CREAM CAKES AND ECLAIRS. 

One pint milk, two tablespoons cornstarch, three eggs, three- 
fourths cup sugar, butter size of walnut. Boil the milk and add 
the cornstarch wet with a little cold milk. Cook about five 
minutes. Add beaten eggs and sugar and cook five minutes 
longer. Add butter and when cool flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



CREAM CAKE FILLING. 

One-half pint milk, three tablespoons sugar, one and one-half 
tablespoons flour, one egg, flavoring and salt. S. W. T. 

LEMON CREAM FILLING. 

Mix one cup sugar, three teaspoonfuls cornstarch, one-fourth 
teaspoonful salt. Stir this into a cup of boiling water, stirring 
till smooth. Place this over boiling water and cook ten minutes. 
Add the grated rind of half and the juice of one lemon, one 
tablespoonful butter and one egg. Emma C. Baker. 

FIG FILLING. 

One cup of sugar and a scant half -cup of water; let boil 
until it threads. Then take from the stove and have ready the 
white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. Add the hot syrup 
gradually to the egg, stirring constantly until it thickens. Then 
add some chopped figs and spread between cake and on top. 

The same filling is nice with English walnuts and raisins in- 
stead of the figs. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One ounce chocolate, three-fourths cup sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful butter, one cup boiling water. Let this come to a boil. Then 
add one rounding tablespoonful cornstarch dissolved in one-half 
cup cold water. Cook ten minutes. Flavor. Spread when cool. 

A. G. H. 



APPLE FILLING. 

One medium-sized apple grated, one cup sugar, white of one 
egg beaten. Beat all together until very white and creamy. 
Spread between layers and on top of cake. F. A. Colburn. 

4G 



CARAMEL FROSTING. 

One-third cup milk, one cup sugar, one teaspoon butter. Boil 
this mixture till it begins to thicken, take from stove, flavor 
with vanilla and beat till thick enough to spread easily on cake. 
After this hardens melt a square of chocolate and spread over 
the whole. 



FROSTING. 

Put four desertspoons milk and a teaspoon of flavoring — vanil- 
la, almond or strawberry — into a bowl. Add confectioner's sugar 
until thick enough to spread on the cake. 

47 



COOKIES. 



OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, two cups rolled oats, 
two cups flour, one egg, pinch salt, teapsoon cinnamon, tea- 
spoon soda, teaspoon cream tartar, seven tablespoonfuls sweet 
j£ lkt Mrs. E. E. Colburn. 

BANBERRY TARTS. 

One pint flour and sufficient lard to make a rich pie crust. 
Roll thin and cut out with a five o'clock tea saucer, and put in a 
good teaspoon of the following filling in each. Pinch up the 
ends good. . . 

FILLING. One egg, juice of one lemon, cup of raisins chopped 
fine, one cup of sugar, salt, two teaspoons of flour. 

Leila Nickerson. 



ORANGE PEKOES. 

Cream one-half cup butter, add one cup sugar, two well 
beaten eggs and one-half cup milk. Sift one teaspoon soda and 
level teaspoon of cream of tartar with two cups flour. Beat 
and add one-fourth cup dried orange peel pounded fine or 
ground in meat chopper. Add one-half cup nut meats. Drop far 
apart with small spoon. Bake in quick oven. M. L. H. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup N. 0. molasses, one -hall' cup sugar, one tablespoon 

49 



ginger, one teaspoon soda, one-half cup butter, flour to roll out 
very thin. Heat molasses and pour over sugar, add ginger, 
butter, soda and flour. Cut and bake quickly. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

HERMITS. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of raisins 
(chopped), three eggs, one-half teaspoon of soda dissolved, three 
tablespoons of milk, one teaspoon of cinnamon, cloves and nut- 
meg, about five cups of flour. Drop on buttered tins. 

Mrs. E. "W. Matthews. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, two eggs, one cup 
molasses, one desertspoonful ginger and one tablespoonful vine- 
gar, one desertspoonful soda dissolved in a little cold water. 

Emma C. Baker. 

BROWNIES. 

Two squares chocolate melted, one cup sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, one-half cup flour, one cup nut meats chopped, two eggs. 
Bake slowly in large pan and cut when hot. H. M. R. 

SPICED COOKIES. 

One-fourth cup each of butter and lard creamed together, one- 
half cup each brown and white sugar, one-fourth cup sour milk, 
one egg, one-half teaspoon soda, two cups flour, one-fourth tea- 
spoon each of clove and nutmeg, one-half teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon lemon extract, one-half cup raisins, one-half cup 
chopped walnuts. Drop on buttered tin. Bake in quick oven. 

H. M. R, 

50 



FILLED COOKIES. 



One cup sugar, one-half cup shortening, one egg, one-half cup 
milk, three and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon vanilla. 

FILLING. One cup chopped raisins, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup water, one tablespoon flour. Cook until thick. 

Leila Nickerson. 



MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one egg, one tablespoon- 
ful ginger, one tablespoonful soda, one tahlespoonful vinegar, 
two tablespoonfuls water, two-thirds cup shortening, (butter and 
lard mixed), four and one-half cups flour. Leila Nickerson. 

BROWN SUGAR COOKIES. 

Three eggs, two cups of brown sugar, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, two teaspoonfuls of bakmg powder, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter melted after measuring, flour sufficient to roll out. 

Caroline R. Pulsifer. 



COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup lard, two en ids sugar, three 
eggs, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon saleratus, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, pinch of salt, flour to roll. Agnes Usher. 

GERMAN COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs, one-fourth cup 
milk, two cups flour, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, one scant teaspoon vanilla. Spread evenly in large 
roasting pan and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake in 
hot oven. Cut in squares while warm. F. A. Colburn. 

51 



GINGERBREAD. 



GINGERBREAD. 



One-half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one egg, one table- 
spoon butter, one teaspoon soda, one-third cup hot water or 
milk, one-half teaspoon each cinnamon and ginger, two cups 
floim S. W. T. 



SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD. 



One cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, two and one-third 
cups of flour, one and three-fourths teaspoons of soda, two tea- 
spoons of ginger, one-half teaspoon of salt, one-fourth cup of 
melted butter. Mix soda with sour milk and add to molasses. 
Sift together remaining dry ingredients, combine mixtures, add 
butter and beat vigorously. Bake in a moderade oven. 

Mrs. E. "W. Matthews. 



SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD. 

One cup sour milk, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, 
one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon ginger, 
two and one-fourth cups pastry flour. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, one teaspoon ful soda in molasses, one-haU' 
teaspoonful ginger, salt, four tablespoonfuls shortening, three 
tablespoonfuls cold water, two and one-half cups flour. 

A. G. IT. 



SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD. 

Beat two eggs, add one-half cup sugar, one-half eup molasses, 
three-fourths cup sour cream, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon and one of ginger, two cups flour into which has 
been sifted one and one-half teaspoonful soda. Then add a good 
cup of preserved ginger cut in small pieces. Bake in small 
round cakes. A. G. H. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon ginger, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one-half cup butter or drippings, one cup 
milk, three cups pastry flour. Bake in muffin pans in moderate 
oven about thirty minutes. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, one-third cup water, dissolve one teaspoonful 
of soda, one teaspoonful ginger, heaping tablespoonful of shorten- 
ing, pinch of salt, flour enough to spread in pan. 

54 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES. 



STEAMED SUET FRUIT PUDDING. 

Two and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoon of soda, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half tea- 
spoon of nutmeg, one cup of chopped suet or two-thirds cup of 
butter, one cup of raisins, one cup of water or milk, one cup of 
molasses. Sift soda, salt and spice into the flour, rub in the suet, 
add the raisins (chopped), mix in the milk and molasses, and 
stir it into the mixture. Steam in a buttered mold three hours. 
If butter is used allow three cups of flour. Serve with sauce. 

Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One pint boiling water, one-fourth cup cornstarch, little salt, 
one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla. Dissolve corn- 
starch in cold water. Cook all until transparent. Beat the 
whites of three eggs stiff and stir into boiling cornstarch. Pour 
into wet mold. 

SAUCE. Two cups milk, beaten yolks of three eggs, two-thirds 
cup sugar, butter size of walnut, flavor to suit taste. If with 
chocolate add two squares with two tablespoonfuls water. Cook 
in double boiler until thick. Carrie D. Bray. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

One pint of flour sifted, one-fourth teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons (scant) baking powder, one-fourth cup butter, one cup 

57 



milk. Roll lightly and bake in two layer cake tins. 

Mash fruit and put between layers and on top. Serve with 
whipped cream. Mrs. T. S. Crowell. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, two teaspoons of butter, one cup of milk, 
two eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
two squares of Baker's chocolate melted. Steam one and one- 
half hours. 

SAUCE. Butter size of an egg, cream with confectioner's 
sugar, then beat in an egg and flavor with vanilla. Set in a 
cool place and let harden. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 

STEAMED PLUM PUDDING. 

Six crackers buttered and soaked in one pint of milk over 
night with two eggs, two tablespoonfuls molasses, one-half cup 
sugar. In the morning in laying pudding to steam put a little 
cinnamon and nutmeg between layers with one cup raisins. 
Steam two hours. This is enough for six or eight persons. 

SAUCE. One cup sugar, butter size of half an egg, one egg. 
Beat to a cream, add little salt and flavoring. Just before serv- 
ing add two tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Carrie D. Bray. 

MACCAROON PUDDTNG. 

One and one-half pints milk, yolks of three eggs, one teaspoon 
cornstarch, three tablespoons sugar. Cook in double boiler until 
the custard is smooth and thick and pour into pudding dish. 
Cover thickly with maccaroons rolled fine. Beat the whites of 
the eggs stiff, mix with one-half cup sugar and put over the 
custard. Garnish with small maccaroons. Brown slightly in 
oven. H. A. Knowles. 

58 



STRAWBERRY OR FRUIT DELIGHT. 

Two cups milk, one-third cup sugar, one teaspoonful butter, salt, 
vanilla, one-fourth cupful cornstarch, yolk of one egg. Cook in 
double boiler. 

SAUCE. One and one-fourth cups strawberries or fruit crushed, 
one-fourth cup sugar, white of one egg beaten stiff. Serve cold. 

Carrie D. Bray. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Melt one cup of sugar in spider and pour into one and one-half 
pints of milk, add pinch of salt and teaspoon of vanilla. Cool and 
add beaten yolks of four eggs and the white of one egg. Pour 
into a buttered pudding dish and cook in pan of water in moder- 
ate oven until done. Make meringue of the whites of eggs and 
set in the oven to brown. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 



GRAPE NUT PUDDING. 

Scald one quart milk, add one cup grape nuts and let stand 
until cold. Add one beaten egg, small piece butter, one cup sugar, 
one cup raisins (if liked). Bake one and one-half or two hours. 
Serve with whipped cream. H. A. Knowles. 

MYSTERY PUDDING. 

Pour or five slices of buttered toast. Soak this in milk, one- 
half cup molasses for sweetening, two eggs well beaten. Bake 
until a rich brown. M. L. II. 



MARSHM ALLOW PUDDING. 

Thirty-five marshmallows, one tablespoonful powdered gelatine, 
one cup cream, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, 
two eggs, one tablespoonful brandy. 

5'. i 



Cut marshmallows in three small pieces. Mix with these 
enough powdered sugar to prevent them sticking together. Dis- 
solve gelatine in boiling water. Take cream, sugar and vanilla 
and mix with gelatine when cold, together with beaten whites 
of two eggs. Into this mixture put the marshmallows and 
brandy. Serve with whipped cream. B. T. H. 

MOCHA PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups strong coffee, one cup milk, scant cup 
sugar, two teaspoons gelatine, yolks of three eggs well beaten, 
one-half teaspoon vanilla, a little salt. Cook in double boiler 
until it thickens, then remove from fire and add the beaten 
whites of the eggs. When cool put on ice and serve with 
whipped cream or boiled custard. 



SHREDDED WHEAT PUDDING. 

One pint milk, one-half cup shredded wheat crumbs (two bis- 
cuits), one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-half cup molasses, three eggs, 
one-half teaspoon cinnamon. Mix well, beat in the milk, turn 
into a buttered pudding dish and bake covered forty-five min- 
utes. Remove cover and brown. Serve with hard sauce. 

H. M. R. 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One pint milk, one-fourth cup tapioca, two eggs, one-half cup 
susar. S. W. T. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Soak one cup bread crumbs in one and one-half cups boiling 
milk for one-half hour. Melt one square chocolate and when it 
is a smooth paste mix in a quarter cup of sugar, a pinch of salt, 
teaspoonful of vanilla and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Mix 

GO 



with the soaked crumbs, add the beaten whites of eggs. Bake 
about three-quarters of an hour. Serve with whipped cream or 
hard sauce. Lula M. Eldridge. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One large cup suet, one cup molasses, one cup milk, one cup 
raisins chopped fine, one cup nuts chopped fine, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves. 
Flour to make a stiff batter. Steam three hours. S. W. T. 

THANKSGIVING PUDDING. 

Eight crackers rolled fine and soaked in two quarts milk. 
Cream one-fourth cup butter with one cup of sugar, add salt, one 
teaspoon of mixed spices, and six well beaten eggs. Butter a 
deep pudding dish and bake three or four hours. Stir several 
times to keep the raisins from settling (one cup raisins). 

Lilla M. Eldridge. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Beat one egg, add one cup water, the grated rind and juice of 
one lemon. Pour this over one cup of sugar mixed with two 
tablespoons of flour. Cook in double boiler. 

Lilla M. Eldridge. 

BAKED RTCE PUDDING. 

Two cups cooked rice, one quart milk, four eggs (save the 
whites of three for frosting), sugar and salt to taste. Grate the 
rind of one lemon, add, and squeeze the juice into the whites with 
two or three tablespoons of sugar. Leila Nickerson. 

6t 



APPLE PUDDING. 

One egg, one-fourth cup butter, one eup milk, one-half eup 
sugar, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, four sour 
apples. Pare and quarter apples in shallow baking dish. Pour 
batter over and bake about thirty minutes. Serve hot with 
hard sauce. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



BAKED STUFFED APPLES. 

Select six fair apples of good flavor. Core and fill with sugar 
and place in baking pan with enough hot water and two tea- 
spoons of lemon juice to cover bottom of pan. Bake carefully, 
basting often, until tender but not broken to pieces. Remove 
carefully to dish, pouring over the syrup left from baking. 
When time to serve pour over the apples a pint of whipped 
cream to which has been added a half cup of chopped English 
walnuts. Serve at once. Mrs. E. E. Colburn. 

BREAD PUDDING, STEAMED. 

One egg, one cup of milk, one-half cup of molasses, one-half 
cup of raisins, two cups of stale bread crumbs chopped fine, one- 
half teaspoonful of saleratus, one-half cup of butter melted. 
Steam three hours. Serve with egg asuce or hard sauce. 

EGG SAUCE. Two eggs beaten separately, three-fourths cup 
sugar. Beat whites to a stiff froth. Beat yolks and sugar until 
light. Combine mixtures. Flavor with vanilla. Do not make 
until ready to serve. Caroline R. Pulsifer. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Five eggs, six tablespoons sugar, one quart milk, one and one- 
half squares chocolate, one teaspoon vanilla. Dissolve chocolate 
with a little of the milk, add half the sugar, and the milk. 
Heat in double boiler. When hot pour over eggs beaten all to- 
gether and rest of the sugar. Add vanilla and bake like custard. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

62 



CHOCOLATE DESERT. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, 
two eggs, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half teaspoon of 
soda, one and one-half cups of sifted flour, one-fourth cake of 
Baker's chocolate melted and beaten into the mixture. Bake in 
an angel cake pan. Frost while hot with a soft chocolate frost- 
ing. Serve at once, with the hole in the center filled with 
whipped cream. 

FROSTING. Two squares of scraped chocolate, five heaping 
tablespoons powdered sugar and three tablespoons of boiling 
water. Stir over fire until it thickens a little. 

Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



APPLE SNOW. 

One cup powdered sugar, white of one egg, two sour apples. 
Grate apples and beat all together with fork until light and 
dry. Serve with sponge cake. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

WHITE PUDDING. 

One pint milk, two tablespoons cornstarch, three tablespoons 
sugar, little salt. Dissolve the sugar and cornstarch in a little 
cold milk. When milk boils stir it in. Add whites of three eggs. 

S. W. T. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Pour out one quart milk in quart. Take one cup of milk, and 
one-half cup from quart and a small teaspoon salt and put into 
a saucepan to heat. When almost boiling stir in two-thirds cup 
of Indian meal. Take from stove when cooked and stir in one- 
half cup molasses. Pour into greased pudding pot and when 
almost cold put in rest of the milk in the quart. Do not stir. 
Set away and when ready to put into oven put in two-thirds cup 
of cold milk and a piece of suet. Cook in slow oven four or 
five hours. 

63 



LEMON BREAD PUDDING. 

Two thick slices of bread, pour over one and one-half cups 
boiling water, one-half cup butter; add beaten yolks of two eggs, 
three-fourths cup sugar, juice of one and one-half lemons. Bake 
about 20 minutes. Frost with the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown in oven. 

H. A. Knowles. 

LEMON RICE PUDDING. 

One cup freshly cooked rice, yolks three eggs (beaten), three 
tablespoonfuls sugar, juice and rind of one lemon. Bake about 
twenty minutes. Frost with beaten whites of three eggs to which 
has been added three-fourth cup of sugar and one-half teaspoon 
lemon extract. Brown in oven. IT. A. Knowles. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup cream, six tablespoons grated 
chocolate, one teaspoon vanilla. Mix sugar and cream, dissolve 
chocolate and add. Cook over teakettle until it thickens, about 
two minutes, then add vanilla. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup powdered sugar; cream these, 
then add white of one egg beaten very stiff. Flavor with 
vanilla. H. A. Knowles. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Cream one-third cup butter with one cup powdered sugar, two- 
thirds teaspoon vanilla or one-third lemon. Shape into balls a ad 
roll in cocoanut. S. W. T. 

64 



LEMON SAUCE. 

Three-fourths cup sugar, one cup boiling water, two table- 
spoons cornstarch, two tablespoons butter. Mix the cornstarch 
and sugar and add to the boiling water. Cook till clear and 
thick, then add butter, stir until melted, take off stove and add 
juice of one lemon. Leila Nickerson. 



EGG SAUCE. 

Cream a piece of butter the size cf an egg with confectioner's 
sugar. Then stir in an egg, not beaten. Flavor with vanilla. 



M. S. M. 



65 



PIES. 



POOR MAN'S PIE. 

One cup fat pork, one cup raisins, four common crackers, one 
cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup boiling water, one-half cup 
vinegar, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves. Roll 
crackers and moisten with little water. Chop pork and raisins 
fine. Bake with two crusts. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



PIE CRUST. 

One cup of flour, one-half cup of lard, one teaspoonful salt 
and pinch of baking powder. Mix with cold water to right con- 
sistency to roll out. B. T. H. 



SOUR CREAM PIE. 

One cup raisins, one cup sour cream, one cup sugar, one egg, 
all kinds of spice. Flour raisins, and bake well done between 
two crusts. 



CUSTARD PIE. 

Three eggs beaten light, one-third cup sugar, little salt, one 
pint of milk. Put in crust and bake in slow oven. L. N. N. 

SELF FROSTING LEMON PIE. 

Cream together one cup sugar, one tablespoonful flour, but- 

G7 



ter size of an egg. Then add beaten yolks of two eggs, juice 
and grated rind of one lemon, one and one-half cups milk. Stir 
in lightly the whites of two eggs beaten stiff and pour into a 
good-sized pie plate lined with pastry. Bake in a moderate oven 
to a beautiful brown. Mrs. E. E. Colburn. 



CRANBERRY PIE. 

One cup of cranberries chopped fine, one cup of sugar and a 
large tablespoon of flour stirred into it, teaspoon of vanilla, little 
salt, one-half cup of hot water poured over all, and piece of but- 
ter size of an egg. Bake with two crusts. Leila Nickerson. 

LEMON PIE. 

Three eggs, two-thirds cup sugar, one-fourth cup lemon juice, 
grated rind one lemon, two tablespoons water. Beat eggs slight- 
ly, add sugar, lemon juice, rind and water. 

FROSTING. Whites of two eggs, two tablespoons powdered 
sugar, one-half tablespoon lemon juice or vanilla. S. W. T. 

RAISIN PIE. 

One cup raisins, one cup sugar, two-thirds cup water, one egg, 
one tablespoonful flour, juice and rind of one lemon. Bake with 
two crusts. M. L. H. 



LEMON PIE. 

Three cups of water, one and one-half cups of sugar, three 
eggs, three tablespoons of cornstarch dissolved in cold water, 
juice and peel of two lemons, small piece of butter. Cook on 
top of stove, cool a little and bake between two crusts. This 
makes two pies. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 

68 



PINEAPPLE PTE. 

One large can of sliced pineapple, two eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of cornstarch, butter size of a walnut, one cup sugar. Heat 
juice, then add ingredients, cutting pineapple into small pieces 
and add last. Have crust baked, then fill. Make meringue of the 
whites of two eggs, one cup of sugar (granulated), one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder. Whipped cream may be served on the 
top. M. L. H. 

MINCEMEAT. 

One quart meat chopped fine, two quarts apples chopped fine, 
two cups molasses, one cup sugar, three cups raisins, one-fourth 
pound citron, one-half cup butter, one cup vinegar, grated rind 
and juice of one lemon, two tablespoons cinnamon, one table- 
spoon allspice, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon nutmeg, two 
tablespoons salt. Mix ingredients and cook in preserving kettle 
slowly for two or three hours. 



TOMATO MINCEMEAT. 

Four quarts tomatoes chopped fine and drained. Cover with 
cold water and simmer thirty minutes. Drain again. Two 
pounds of brown sugar, one pound of raisins, one-half 
pound of citron chopped fine, one tablespoon salt, one-half cup 
vinegar, one-half cup of butter or suet. Cook this mixture slow- 
ly until it thickens. When cold add one tablespoon of cloves, 
one tablespoon cassia, one-half nutmeg. Put in jars. 

60 



ICES. 



MILK SHERBET. 

One quart milk, one pint sugar, juice of three lemons. Freeze. 

Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



ORANGE SHERBET. 

One quart milk, one-half pint cream, two cups sugar, two 
lemons, four oranges. Freeze. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES. 

Mash one quart berries, add the juice of two lemons and one 
pound of sugar. Stir till sugar is dissolved. Cover and stand 
aside for an hour. Then add one quart of water. Put into freez- 
er and freeze gradually till almost frozen, then turn rapidly. 
Serve with whipped cream. H. A. Knowles. 

COFFEE MOUSE. 

One-half cup very strong coffee, one pint cream, sweeten to 
taste. Pack and let stand for four hours. If not frozen put in 
one-half package of minute gelatine dissolved in coffee. Mix and 
let stand in a cool place. M. L. H. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Four lemons, one large pineapple shredded, one-half box gel- 

71 



atine, three pints water, whites of two or three eggs, two and 
one-half cups sugar. Freeze. H. A. Knowles. 



FROZEN PUDDING. 

One quart milk, two cups sugar, three eggs; make soft custard 
and let cool. Put in two tablespoons vanilla and little salt, one- 
half pound of candied fruit and chop fine, add four tablespoons 
of Jamaica rum and let stand three or four hours. Add a pint 
of cream to custard and freeze. When partly frozen add fruit 
and freeze until hard. Mrs. I. B. Sherman. 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts milk, three cups sugar, four eggs, little salt. Make 
*oft ouetard and let cool. After it is cool add one pint of cream 
and freeze. When partly frozen add one box of fresh crushed 
strawberries and freeze hard. Leila Nickerson. 



VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One quart milk, four eggs, one cup sugar, one teaspoonful 
cornstarch dissolved. Cook like boiled custard; let cool. One 
tablespoonful vanilla (or any other flavoring may be used), 
one-half cup cream whipped and added just before freezing. 

Mattie M. Lasbury. 

72 



BEVERAGES. 



COFFEE. 

One tablespoon of ground coffee for each cup and one table- 
spoon for the pot. Put as much dry coffee as is needed for the 
meal in a bowl; take one egg, wash shell and break in another 
bowl; crush the shell and beat up with a fork. Add half of this 
to the coffee in the other bowl and stir up with a cup of cold 
water. Put in coffee pot, add a little more cold water if the 
grounds are not all wet, let scald and then add as much hot 
water as needed. Let simmer a few minutes and set on back 
part of stove. Serve when needed. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



COCOA. 

One pint of milk, eight level teaspoons cocoa, eight teaspoons 
granulated sugar, one pint boiling water. Put the milk to h°at 
in double boiler. Put the water to boil in sauce pan. Mix the 
sugar and cocoa thoroughly and add it to the boiling water. 
Cook five minutes and add the hot milk. Beat with a Dover 
egg beater and serve hot. Leila Nickerson. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

One and one-half dozen lemons, one-half dozen oranges, one 
pint of pineapple or one whole pineapple cut in fine pieces or 
shredded, one-half pound red sugar, three pounds granulated 
sugar. Dissolve sugar in hot water. Mix juices the day before 
needed but do not add sugar until afternoon of using, and water 
just before serving. This amount of juice will make a water 

75 



bucket full and serve about forty persons. Add iee when ready- 
to serve. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



COFFEE PUNCH. 

Mix one-half cup coffee, the white of one egg and two cups 
cold water. Bring to the boiling point, boil three minutes and 
add two cups milk. When ready to serve put shaved ice in the 
bottom of a punch bowl, add one-half cup heavy cream beaten 
stiff and the prepared coffee. Sweeten to taste. H. M. R. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Melt in a sauce pan two squares of chocolate, three tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls hot water. When smooth, add 
gradually one quart of hot milk. Half milk and half water 
may be used if preferred. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Four quarts grapes, three pints water, one and one-half 
pounds sugar. Stem grapes and wash. Put in kettle with 
water and boil until broken. Strain through cheese cloth and 
put juice and sugar into kettle. Boil ten minutes. Bottle or 
put into fruit jars. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Four quarts berries, two quarts vinegar. Cover the berries 
over night. In the morning squeeze thoroughly and add one 
pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil twenty minutes. 
Bottle and cork while hot. 

76 



RELISHES, ETC. 



INDIA JAM. 

Eight pounds of hard pears chopped fine, eight pounds sugar 
(scant), one-fourth pound preserved ginger root chopped fine. 
Simmer three hours. Grate off the yellow of two good-sized 
lemons, to this add the juice of same. Add to this mixture and 
simmer a little while after the lemon is added. 

Emma C. Baker. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

One quart cranberries, one pint sugar, one-half pint water. 
Cook all together ten minutes, strain all through fine sieve and 
cool. Leila Niekerson. 

DUTCH SALAD. 

Four quarts green tomatoes, one quart small onions, one quart 
small pickles, one head cauliflower, one bunch celery, six 
medium green peppers. Chop all together and let stand twenty- 
four hours covered with a large cup of salt and water. Then 
boil thirty minutes and drain very dry. 

DRESSING. Six teaspoons of mustard, one tablespoon of 
tumeric, two cups of white sugar, one cup of flour. Mix with 
water to form paste. Have two quarts vinegar to a boiling 
point, pour in the paste and stir until it is a thin custard. 

Hinckley. 

7 'J 



PICKLED LIME RELISH. 

Five cups green tomatoes chopped fine, one cup chopped 
pickled limes, five cups sugar. Cook slowly for three or four 
hours. H. M. R. 



GROUND CHERRIES AND CRANBERRIES. 

Two quarts of cherries, one pint water, two quarts of cran- 
berries, three quarts of sugar. Boil thoroughly twenty minutes. 

Hinckley. 

JIM JAM. 

One quart currant juice, one quart red raspberries, juice of 
two oranges and all of the peel cut fine, one pound raisins cut 
and seeded, four pounds sugar. Cook three-quarters of an hour. 

H. M. R. 



GROUND CHERRIES. 

Two quarts of cherries, two lemons sliced thin, two ounces pre- 
served ginger root cut in small pieces, one pint of water, one 
quart of sugar. Boil twenty minutes. Hinckley. 

CANNED PEARS. 

Six cups water, three cups sugar. Boil together about ten 
minutes, then add pears pealed and halved. Cook until soft and 
place in jars. Fill to overflowing with hot syrup and seal im- 
mediately. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 



PRESERVED APPLES. 

"Weigh equal quantities of broAvn sugar and good sour apples. 

80 



Pare, core and chop fine. Make a good clear syrup of the sugar, 
add the apples, the juice and rind of three lemons and a few 
pieces of white ginger. Boil it until the apples look clear and 
yellow. On no account omit the ginger. Caroline R. Pulsifer. 

PRESERVED DANGLEBERRIES. 

Remove stems and wash. Just enough water to cook them. If 
two quarts of berries are used, three pints of sugar is necessary. 
This is to be added when the berries are boiling well. Cook 
until it thickens up or jellies. Hinckley. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Cut the apples in small pieces. Cover with water and boil 
thoroughly. Drain through a sieve. Boil the juice with an 
equal quantity of sugar until it jells. Lemon or vanilla flavor- 
ing may be added. 



GINGER PEAR. 

Eight pounds pears sliced thin, six pounds sugar, one-fourth 
pound preserved ginger root, one pint water, four lemons sliced. 
Cook one hour. Hinckley. 



GRAPE CONSERVE. 

Three pounds grapes, three pounds sugar, two oranges, juice 
and grated rind, one pound raisins chopped, one pound English 
walnut meats broken into small pieces. Pulp grapes and put 
on to boil until they can be strained and seeds removed; then 
add the sugar, orange and raisins and a very little water if 
needed. Cook until it begins to thicken — from one to two hours 
— and remove from fire. Stir in nut meats and put immediately 
into jelly tumblers. This quantity will make eight or ten 
glasses. Mrs. E. E. Colburn. 

81 



BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Mash the berries, and let come to a boil. Use no water. 
Squeeze out the juice and boil with an equal quantity of sugar 
until it jells. 



GRAPE JELLY. 

Nearly cover the grapes with water. Boil until thoroughly 
cooked, squeeze or let drain through a bag. Measure juice and 
add equal quantity of sugar. Cook together until it jells from 
a spoon. Beachplums may be used in the same way. 

82 



CHAFING DISH. 



RICED SHRIMP. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half onion minced. Cook 
until brown. Add one gill (or more) cream. When hot add 
one can shrimp, one-half cup cold boiled rice, one table spoonful 
tomato sauce. Let this come to boiling point and then let it 
simmer five minutes. Helen A. Eldridge. 



SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

One can tomatoes, five eggs, flour, salt, cayenne pepper, but- 
ter. Put butter in chafing dish and let it melt. Then put 
tomatoes in. Let them come to boiling point, add thicken ; ng 
and eggs well beaten, and last add the salt, pepper and butter. 
Let cook until it thickens and serve on crackers. B. T. H. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

One pound of cheese, broken in small pieces, one cup of milk 
(or beer). Mix one teaspoon of dry mustard, one-half teaspoon 
of salt and a few grains of cayenne pepper and one well-beaten 
egg. Put a small piece of butter in chafing dish, add cheese and 
when well melted add milk or beer, then egg with the seasoning. 
Cook smooth and serve. Do not let it curdle. 

Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 

CHICKEN WIGGLE. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in chafing dish. When 

83 



melted add two cups of cold chicken cut in small pieces or one 
can chopped. Then add one cupful of milk or cream with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one cup of chicken stock if you have it, if 
not a little more milk, one can peas (strain off liquor), salt and a 
dash of red pepper. Cook a few minutes and serve on toast or 
crackers. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One pint oysters, two tablespoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls 
flour, one pint cream, one-half teaspoonful celery salt, one-half 
teaspoonful salt, dash of cayenne pepper. Put butter in chaf- 
ing dish, add flour. Mix well together and when smooth add 
cream, stirring constantly until sauce is smooth. Add oysters, 
bring to boiling point, season and serve. One-half pint cream 
may be used with one-half cup sherry. B. T. H. 

CREAMED FINNAN HADDTE. 

Put one tablespoon of butter in chafing dish, when melted 
strip half a finnan haddie and add. Heat through and when 
well mixed add three cold boiled potatoes cut in dice and salted. 
Then add one-half pint of cream or milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and a little nutmeg. Cook ten or fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 

ENGLISH MONKEY. 

Put one cup of bread crumbs into one cup of milk to soak fif- 
teen minutes. Take a piece of butter size of a walnut in the 
chafing dish (or spider). When the butter is melted _ put the 
bread crumbs and milk in the chafing dish. When this is well 
mixed put in one cup of grated cheese. When this is melted 
put in one-half teaspoonful of salt and one egg beaten up. 
When it grows thick (as it will when the egg has cooked up 
hard), take it off from the heat and pour in one tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce. Serve on crackers, toasted. 

Caroline R. Pujsifer. 

84 



RINK-TUM-DIDDY. 



Put one tablespoon of butter in chafing dish. Add one can of 
tomatoes, heat well, then add one-half pound of cheese cut in 
small pieces, one-half cup of milk, a little grated onion, salt, pep- 
per. When well heated add two well beaten eggs. Cook a few 
minutes. Serve on crackers. Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



SHRIMP WIGGLE. 



One cup shrimp, one cup peas, one-eighth teaspoonful paprika, 
one and one-half cups milk, two tablespoonfuls butter, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one large tablespoonful flour. Break shrimp in 
small pieces. Melt butter in chafing dish, mixing flour well with 
it, then pour in milk gradually. As soon as the sauce thickens 
add shrimp and peas and seasoning, bring to boiling point and 
serve. B. T. H. 



CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in chafing dish, with a little 
salt and a dash of red pepper. Then have ready two table- 
spoonfuls of flour moistened in one cup of milk and one cup 
of cream. Have one pint of oysters just plumped in their own 
juice ; strain and add. Serve on toast or crackers. If oysters are 
large cut them in half. This will serve six persons. 

Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 



ENGLIISH MONKEY. 

Melt one tablespoon of butter in chafing dish, add and cook 
smooth one and one-half cups of cheese cut in small pieces. Mix 
two cups of bread crumbs that have been softened in two cups 
of milk, with a beaten egg, pinch of salt, one-half teaspoon of 
mustard, pinch of red pepper. Then add this to the chafing dish 
contents and cook smooth. Serve on toast or crackers. 

Mrs. A. A. Knowles. 

85 



MNG-TUM-DIDDY. 

One can tomato soup, one cup of cheese, one-half cup of milk. 
Cook tomatoes and milk with pinch of soda in milk until almost 
boiling, add cheese cut fine, cook until very smooth. Add one 
egg well beaten, one-fourth teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon 
cayenne. H. M. It. 

86 



CANDY. 



DIVINITY FUDGE. 

I. Boil until they string a thread: three cups of sugar, one 
cup of Karo corn syrup, one cup of water. At the same time 
have boiling a second mixture as follows: 

II. One cup of sugar, one-half cup of water. (This does not 
need to cook quite so long as I.) 

III. Beat whites of three eggs to a stiff froth. Pour mixture 
II onto the beaten whites, mixing well. Add mixture I; when 
nearly ready to pour out (it should be about as thick as 
pinochee) add one cup of chopped nuts and two teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla. Caroline R. Pulsifer. 

OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY. 

Three cups New Orleans molasses, two cups sugar, butter size 
of an egg. Boil all together until it hardens in cold water, then 
add four squares of chocolate and one pint of shelled peanuts. 
Cool in shallow pans. Mrs. Thomas S. Crowell. 

OLD-FASHIONED BUTTERSCOTCH. 

Put two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, four table- 
spoons of molasses, two of water and two of vinegar into a por- 
celain-lined kettle. Stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, 
then boil without stirring until it hardens when dropped in cold 
water. Pour into shallow buttered pans to cool. When firm 
enough mark into squares. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 



TURKISH DELIGHT. 

Soak one ounce sheet gelatine in one-half cup cold water for 
two hours. Make a syrup of two cups granulated sugar and one- 
half cup of water. When this boils, add the gelatine and boil 
steadily twenty minutes. Flavor with rind and juice of an or- 
ange and juice of a lemon. Add also one cup chopped nuts and 
raisins. Pour into wet tins to cool. When cool, cut into squares 
and roll in granulated sugar. Helen A. Eldridge. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

One tumbler of sugar, four tablespoons of water. Boil until it 
boils hard all over. Take from the fire, add four drops of pep- 
permint and about four tablespoons of confectioner's sugar. 
Stir until creamy, and drop from point of teaspoon on marble. 

Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 



RAISIN FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup milk, two squares chocolate, 
small piece of butter. Boil until it hardens slightly in cold 
water. Take from stove, flavor with vanilla, and add three- 
fourths cup chopped and seeded raisins. Beat until sugary. 

Helen A. Eldridge. 



PEANUT CANDY. 

Two cups brown sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, one egg beaten 
up. Bake fifteen minutes. Cut before it gets cold. 

Leila Nickerson. 



JANUARY THAW. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of milk, butter size of a wal- 
nut. Boil until it will form in a ball in the fingers when 

88 



dropped in water. Take from the stove, add one teaspoon of 
vanilla and one cup of walnuts chopped fine. Pour quickly into 
tins as it hardens immediately. Mrs. E. W. Matthews. 

SUGARED ORANGE PEEL. 

Cut peelings up small and measure by cupfuls, then add the 
same amount of sugar. After measuring the peel put it on to 
boil with cold water and let it boil twenty minutes. Pour off 
the water, then cover with hot water and boil twenty minutes. 
Pour that off and cover with boiling water and let that boil 
twenty minutes more. Pour off, then add the sugar and just 
enough water to dissolve the sugar. Let it boil slowly until all 
the syrup is in the peel. Then take a few pieces at a time and 
dip in sugar; then put away in glass jars. Emma C. Baker. 

PENOCHEE. 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup milk, piece of butter size 
of walnut, one teaspoonful vanilla, one-half cup nut meats broken 
into pieces. Boil until it forms a soft ball in water, then add 
vanilla and nuts and beat to a cream. F. A. Colburn. 

89 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 



To mend broken china bind pieces with a string and boil in 
milk thirty minutes or more. 

A little ginger in doughnuts will keep them from soaking fat. 

Press new silk with a hot iron before wearing and it will not 
crack. 

A pinch of salt added to the whites of eggs will make them 
beat up quicker and lighter. 

A dash of lemon juice in plain water is an excellent tooth 
wash. It not only removes tartar but sweetens the breath. 

The finest of manicure-acids is made by putting a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice in a cupful of warm water. 

A little lavendar upon the shelves and floor of the wardrobe, 
or bits of camphor gum or cedar wood or laurel are said to be 
excellent in keeping away moths. 

A tablespoonful of turpentine in your boiler or in your washing 
machine will make your clothes much whiter. 

Baking soda put in the water used for washing windows, mir- 
rors, and any kind of glass will give a nice polish. 

Hot water is better than cold for bruises. It relieves pain 
quickly and by preventing congestion often keeps off the black 
and blue marks. 

A tablespoonful of glycerine added to water in which a white 
wool sweater or shawl is to be washed will keep the garment soft 
and fresh as when new. 

Kitchen and laundry soap will go further if dried well before 
using. 

Rub butter on a burn immediately, and it will not blister. 

A little olive oil put in lukewarm water with Ivory soap is 
very good for washing chamois gloves. 

Old soft silk cloths make the best rags for the parlor, as they 
leave no lint on polished furniture. 

One teaspoonful of ammonia to a teaspoonful of water applied 
with a rag will clean silver or gold jewelry. 

1)1 



TABLE. 



4 saltspoonfuls 


equal 1 teaspoonful 


4 teaspoonfuls 




' 1 tablespoonful 


2 teaspoonfuls 




' 1 dessertspoonful 


2 dessertspoonfuls 




' 1 tablespoonful 


8 tablespoonfuls of liquid 




' 1 gill 


6 tablespoonfuls of dry material 




1 1 gill 


2 gills 




' 1 cupful 


2 cupfuls or 4 gills 




' 1 pint 


4 cupfuls of liquid 




' 1 quart 


4 cupfuls of flour 




' 1 quart 


2 cupfuls of solid butter 




' 1 pound 


2 cupfuls of granulated sugar 




' 1 pound 


2Y2 cupfuls of powdered sugar 




' 1 pound 


2 cupfuls of milk or water 




' 1 pound 


1 tablespoonful of butter 


equals 1 ounce 


2 tablespoonfuls of flour 


equal 1 ounce 


2 tablespoonfuls of coffee 


" 1 ounce 


Butter the size of an egg means 2 tablespoonfuls or 2 ounces 


A tablespoonful of melted butter 


is measured after melting 


A tablespoonful of butter, melted, 


is measured before melting 



92 



TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING. 



MEATS. 



Roasting or Baking 

Beef, ribs or sirloin, rare 

Beef, ribs or sirloin, boned and rolled 

Beef, ribs or sirloin, well done 

Round of Beef 

Mutton, leg, rare 

Mutton, leg, well done 

Mutton, loin, rare 

Mutton, shoulder, stuffed 

Mutton, saddle, rare 

Lamb, well done 

Veal, well done 

Pork, well done 

Turkey- 
Fowls 

Chicken 

Goose 

Venison 

Fillet, hot oven 

Ducks, tame 

Ducks, wild, very hot oven 

Partridge 

Grouse 

Pigeons 

Braised Meats 

Liver, whole 

93 











Time 


per pound 




10 


minutes 


1 






12 




i i 


a 






12 




c t 


(t 






15 




i i 


t ( 






10 




i i 


< c 






15 




i < 


I ( 






10 




< < 


(< 






15 




< i 


(t 






10 




i i 


« < 






15 




1 1 


i i 






20 




i i 


(« 






30 




n 


< i 






15 




1 1 


il 






20 




( c 


I c 






15 




(« 


tt 






18 




i i 


( ( 






15 




1 1 


c I 






30 




i < 


entire time 45 to 


60 




< c 


< i 


15 


to 


30 




I c 


1 1 


30 


to 


40 




< c 


< t 






30 




I i 


a 






30 




a 


a 




3 


to 


4 


hours 


a 








2 


hours 



Boiling 



Mutton 
Potted Beef 
Corned Beef 
Ham 
Turkey 
Chicken 
Fowl 
Tripe 



per pound 15 minutes 
30 to 35 
30 
18 to 20 
15 
15 
20 to 30 

3 to 5 hours 



Broiling 



Steak, 1 inch thick 

Steak, iy 2 inches thick 

Mutton Chops, French 

Mutton Chops, English 

Spring Chicken 

Quail 

Grouse 

Squabs 

Shad, Bluefish, Trout 

Small Fish 



8 to 10 minutes 


10 to 15 




8 




10 




20 




8 to 10 




15 




10 to 15 




15 to 25 




5 to 10 





FISH 



Boil 



Halibut and Salmon 
Bluefish and Bass 
Cod and Haddock 



per pound 


15 minutes 


<( 


30 


«< 


8 



Bake 



Halibut, salmon, bass, bluefish, shad, etc., for one hour. 
Trout, pickerel, white fish, etc., for one-half hour. 

94 



VEGETABLES 

Young peas, canned tomatoes, green corn, asparagus, spinach, 
Brussels sprouts — 15 to 20 minutes. 

Rice, potatoes, macaroni, summer squash, celery, cauliflower, 
young cabbage, peas — 20 to 30 minutes. 

Young turnips, young beets, young carrots, young parsnips, 
tomatoes, baked potatoes, sweet potatoes, onions, cabbage, cauli- 
flower — 30 to 45 minutes. 

String beans, shell beans, oyster plant, winter squash — 45 to 60 
minutes. 

Winter vegetables — 1 to 2 hours. Old beets, forever. 

MISCELLANEOUS 



Bread, baked 

Bread, large loaves 

Biscuits and small cakes 

Gingerbread 

Brownbread, steamed 

Sponge cake 

Plain cake 

Fruit cake 

Cookies 

Thin cakes, usually 



45 minutes 

60 minutes 

15 to 20 minutes 

20 to 30 minutes 

3 hours 

45 to 60 minutes 

30 to 40 minutes 

2 to 3 hours 

10 to 15 minutes 

20 minutes 



95 



DEC 17 1912 



; »!iw! 

SiWi'i'i'l'i 



|i||i|i||| 



lill 



mk 



m 










Ipl 




I 




111 



